SHAKESPEARE’S PLAYS 

^SWAN* EDITION 

With Introductiom^ Notes, and Tllustratiom. Crown Bvo, H. each Play 

I 

MACBETH. Edited by McWilliam, B.A. With 15 » 

Illustrations by Gobbon Beowot, eto. 

RiCHARD II. Edited by W. J. Abul, B.A. With^ 15 

Illustrations by H. M. Bbock, eto. 

JULIUS Ci^ESAR. Edited by D. Pousyth, D.So. With 

16 lUustrationa by QbenviiiLB Mantoij, eto. 

KINO JOHN. Edited by J. W. Touitq, With 14 Illustra- 
tions by Paimkn 'Wilbost, eto, 

AS YOU LIKE IT. Edited by.W. Dyohi. With 15 

lUostrations by 0. A. Shbfpbbboh, eti^ 

THE TEMPEST. Edited by 0. W. Stone, M. A. With 15 

Illustrations by S. G. Davis, eto. 

THE MERCHANT OF VENICE. Edited by John Bid- 

good, B.So. With 16 lUustrationa by G. A. Shbppbbbon, eto. 

HENRY V. Edited by D. Ferguson, M.A. With 15 lUns- 
trations by R. Whbblwbigbi, eto, 

TWELFTH NIQHT. Edited by Alfred L. Oann, B.A. 
With 10 Illustrations by GbskvidiiB Mabton, eto. 

MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING. Edited by Robert 

WiiJUAUBOB, H.A. With 10 Dlustrations by B, R. Millab, eto. 

MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM. Edited by J. W. 
Imtoe, M.A. With 10 Illustrations by 0. A. Sheppbbson. 

THE WINTER’S TALE, Edited by T. G. Weight. 

With 10 lUustrations by R. WHiatr.wBiGHa. 

KING LEAR. Edited by A. V. Houghton. With 10 Ulus- 
^rations by Gobbob Bbowstb, 

UONOMANS^ SCHOOL SHAKESPEARE, consisting 
of Twelve of the most suitable Plays for School 
Reading. Edited, with Glossary, by A. V. Houghton, M,A. 
Grown 8vo, js. 6d. 

LONGMANS, GEEEN, AKD CO. 

LONBOK, NEW YOEK» BOMBAY, AND CALCUTTA 



LONGMANS’ CLASS-BOOKS OF 
ENGLISH LITERATURE 


MACAULAY’S HISTORY OP ENOLAND. CHAPTER I. With Biography 
and Notes by D. Salmon. Crown 8vo, ■jT. * 

MACAULAY’S HISTORY OP ENGLAND. CHAPTER III. With Bio- 
graphy and Notes by D. Salmon. Crov( a 8vo, xs . 

MACAULAY’S LAYS OP ANCIENT ROME: WITH IVRY AND THE 
ARMADA. With Biography by D. Salmon, and Introduction and Notes 
by J. W. Bartram, M.A. Crown 8vo, ts, * 

FROUDE’S SHORT STUDIES ON GREAT SUBJECTS. Selections, with 
Introduction and Notes, by J. Thornton, M.A. With 7 Illustrations. Crown 
Svo, ijr 

MILTON’S COMUS, IL PENSER050, L’ ALLEGRO AND LYCIDAS. 
With Biography by D. Salmon, and Introduction and Notes by W. Elliott, 
M.A. Crown Svo, gd, . 

MILTON’S PARADISE LOST. Books I., IL, III., IV., V. With a Bio- 
graphy by D. Salmon, and Argument and Notes by W, Elliott, M.A. 
Crown Svo, limp cloth, 6d. each. 

MORRIS’S THE STORY OP SIGURD THE VOLSUNG. With Introduc- 
tion and Life by J. W. Mackaii*, Crown Svo, is. 6d. 

MORRIS’S THE MAN BORN TO BE KING (From « The Earthly Paradise ”)• 
With Introduction and Life by J. W. Mackail. Crown Svo, xs. ^d. 

MORRIS’S THE STORY OP THE GLITTERING PLAIN. With Introduc- 
tion and Life by J. W. Mackail Crown Svo, xs. 6d. 

MORRIS’S ATALANTA’S RACE AND THE PROUD KING (From 
“The Earthly Paradise”). With Introduction and Notes. Crown Svo, xr. 

SCOTT’S QUENTIN DURWARD (Abridged). With Biography by Andrew 
Lang, and Introduction and Notes by J. Thornton, M.A Crown Svo, xs, 

SCOTT’S A LEGEND OP MONTROSE (Abridged). With Biography by 
A. Lang, and Introduction and Notes by R. Lishman, B.A. Crown Svo, xs. 

SCOTT’S IVANHOE (Abridged). With Biography by A, Lang, and Introduction 
and Notes by T. H. Allen. Crown Svo, is. 

SCOTT’S THE TALISMAN (Abridged). With Biography by A. Lang, and 
Introduction and Notes by J. Thornton, M.A, Crown Svo, xs. 

SCOTT’S MARMION. With Biography by A. Lang, and Introduction and 
Notes by Guy Kendall, M.A* Crown Svo, xs. 

SCOTT’S THE LADY OP THE LAKE. With Biography by A. Lang, and 
Introduction and Notes by W. Horton Sfragge, M.A. Crown Svo, xs. 

SCOTT’S THE LAY OP THE LAST MINSTREL. With Biography by 
A. Lang, and Introduction and Notes by F. W. Ticknkr, M.A, Crown Svo, is. 

HAWTHORNE’S TANQLEWOOD TALES. With Introduction and Notes 
by Guy Kendall, M.A. Crown Svo. is. 

HAWTHORNE’S A WONDER BOOK. With Introduction and Notes by 
Ada Perry. Crown Svo, xs, 

DICKENS’ A CHRISTMAS CAROL. With Introduction and Notes by 
E, Gordon Brown, M.A. Crown Svo, xs. 

DEFOE’S ROBINSON CRUSOE (Abridged). With a Frontispiece in Colour 
and Illustrations by Lancelot Speed and H. J. Ford. With Introduction and 
Notes by T. W. Silyerdalb, Crown Svo, xs. 

JEFFERIES (RICHARD) SELECTIONS FROM. With Introduction and 
Notes by F. W. Ticknbr, M.A., B.Sc. Crown Svo, xs. 

GODS AND HEROES OP THE NORTH. By Alice Zimmern, Girtoii 
College, Cambridge. With Notes and x 2 Illustrations. Crown Svo, xs, 

TALES OP KING ARTHUR AND THE ROUND TABLE. Adapted from 
“The Book of Romance.” By Andrew Lang. With Introduction, Notes, 
etc., hy J. C. Allen, and so Illustrations by H. J. Ford. Crown Svo, ts. 

TALES OP THE GREEK SEAS. By Andrew Lang. With Notes and 7 
lUnstrations. Crown Svo, xs. 

TALES OP TROY. By Andrew Lang. With Notes, 6 Illustrations and a 
Map. Crown Svo, ts. 


LONGMANS, GREEN. ANB CO. 

LONDON, NEW YORK, BOMBAY, AND CALCOTTB 




XotiQinans* ClagggBoofts of JEngUsb Xtteraturc 



NEW IMPRESSION 


LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. 

39, PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON 
NEW YORK, BOMBAY, AND CALCUTTA 

1913 





INTRODUCTION 


“The Life and Strange Surprising Adventures of Eobinson 
Crusoe (the first words of the original title) is the most 
popular work of fiction that was ever written in any 
language. It was first published in April, 1719, and by 
the following August had run through five editions, and 
nine editions were printed during the life of the author. 

It has been publish#! in several foreign languages, 
including Arabic, and new editions of the book have been 
brought out ever since. Both young and old are charmed 
by the homeliness of its style, the variety of incidents and 
the touch of reality which pervades the whole story. It 
has been thought by some that Defoe acquired the “ lonely 
inhabitant incident from the adventures of Alexander Sel- 
kirk, a Scottish mariner, who spent over four years, alone, 
on the island of Juan Fernandez in the Pacific, the account 
of which was published in 1712. There had been many 
similar well-authenticated cases, from any one of which 
Defoe might have borrowed the leading incident. But 
if it were borrowed, as Mr. Chalmers, in his life of 
Defoe, says, “ he did not borrow the various events, the 
useful moralities, or the engaging style ... he excelled 
in narrating adventures by sea with such felicities of 
language, such attractive varieties, such insinuative in- 
"struction, as have seldom been equalled, but never 
surpassed.*’ 

Of the instructive value of the book, the great French 
educational reformer, Eousseau, in his “ Emile,** says, 



INTRODUCTION 


iv 

''Since we must have books, this is one which, in my 
opinion, is a most excellent treatise on natural education. 
This is the first my Emilias shtll read ; his whole library 
shall long consist of this work l^nly, which shall preserve 
an eminent rank to the very last. It shall be the text to 
which all our conversations on natural science are to serve 
only as a comment. It shall be a guide during our pro- 
gress to maturity of judgment : and so long as our taste is 
not adulterated, the perusal of this book will afford us 
pleasure.'' 


LIFE OF DEFOE 

Daniel Defoe, the author of " Eobinson Crusoe," was 
born in London in 1661. His parents intended him for 
the ministry, and with that object in view he attended an 
academy for the training of dissenting ministers, but when 
nineteen this design was given up, and he was apprenticed 
to a merchant hosier in the city, with whom he remained 
five years. He joined the forces under the Duke of Mon- 
mouth in his ill-fated insurrection in 1685, but fortunately 
escaped to London, where he started in the wholesale 
hosiery business for himself. In the way of trade he 
visited Portugal and Spain, remaining some time in the 
latter country, and becoming acquainted with the lan- 
guage. Business, however, was not Defoe's bent : he was 
a born writer, and from 1687, the date of his first serious 
publication — " An Essay on Projects " — he devoted more 
and more of his time to literary pursuits, at first on the 
current topics of the day, but later chiefly on the great 
religious and political questions which continued to dis- 
turb the nation during the reigns of James II., William III. 
and Anne. In those troublous times it was dangerous tc 
express an opinion against the ruling party, but Defoe 
was an absolutely fearless writer and a true patriot, and 



LIFE OF DEFOE 


V 


'to the end of his life boldly pleaded the cause of religious 
and political freedom with untiring energy and unabated 
zeal. ' He supported th« Eevolution of 1688, and as a 
liveryman of the city ot London joined in the mayoral 
welcome to King William. His literary labours evidently 
took his attention from his business, for he became bank- 
rupt in 1692, but afterwards honourably paid his creditors 
in full. The publication in 1701 of a satirical poem — 
The True-born Englishman '' — written against those who 
had maliciously styled King William and his supporters 
foreigners,” was the means of him becoming known to 
the King, who had a high opinion of his talents, and 
employed him- in various ways. Defoe never afterwards 
missed a favourable opportunity of writing in honour of 
“the immortal memory of that best and greatest of 
princes.” The accession of Queen Anne was the beginning 
of a long and bitter strife between the High Church party 
and the Dissenters, and with the object of defending the 
latter, and to gain a greater amount of toleration for all 
sects, Defoe wrote a satirical work, “ The Shortest Way 
with the Dissenters,” which was at first misunderstood 
by both parties, but was eventually the very unjust cause 
of the author being imprisoned, fined, and placed for three 
days in the pillory. This treatment, which obtained for 
him a kind of triumph with the common people, caused 
the ruin of his fortunes a second time, as his brick and 
pantile works at Tilbury, which he had successfully 
conducted for some years, had to be given up. His 
imprisonment in Newgate, which lasted about eighteen 
months, was no hindrance to his pen, and during this time 
he wrote about thirty books and pamphlets on various 
subjects, besides a complete edition of his own works ; 
but, more important still, he started the Review^ which 
was brought out first as a weekly paper, afterwards 
published thrice weekly, and existed for nine years. 



VI 


LIFE OF DEFOE 


All sorts of questions were discussed in it, but chiefly 
those bearing upon the trade and commerce of the country, 
the social conditions of the peoplt and the means for their 
improvement. In this class of ^T-ork Defoe, who was the 
sole contributor, excelled all who had preceded him, and 
led the way for the Tatlers, Sjpectators, and Guardians 
which afterwards attained so much distiuction. Through 
the influence of Harley, who became the Earl of Oxford 
Defoe was liberated by order of the Queen, who also paid 
his fine. In 1706-7 he was employed in the negotiations 
which brought about the union between England and 
Scotland ; in the success of this great achievement he had 
no small share, and in 1709 he published a '' History of 
the Union of Great Britain.’' This work stamped him as 
one of the best historians of his time, as it contains a full 
and accurate account of all that took place, and is written 
with great discretion, soundness of judgment, and due 
proportion respecting minute but important details. 
Further evidence of his ability as an historian was shown 
in his Memoirs of the Church of Scotland," which is a 
valuable work. Fr3k 1709 to 1713, in addition to his 
work for the Eeview, he published some twenty works on 
trade, loans, public credit, political and religious differences 
and want of toleration amongst parties, but more particu- 
larly in favour of the succession of the House of Hanover. 
In this connection, owing to the active measures pursued 
by the friends of the Pretender, Defoe wrote three 
pamphlets in his most bantering style to show what might 
be expected if the House of Stuart were reinstated. Again 
it was his misfortune to be misunderstood, and for the 
second time his enemies had him most unjustly arrested 
and imprisoned, but only for a short time, as the absurdity 
of the charge against him was soon noticed by his former 
benefactor, the Earl of Oxford, and he was released before 
the day appointed for his trial. Whilst in Newgate this 



LIFE OF DEFOE 


vii 

«time he completed the ninth and last volume of the Review, 
so that it was commenced and ended during the author’s 
imprisonment. Although he wrote nothing of a contro- 
versial nature for a yJar after the Queen’s death, hi^ 
enemies continued to heap upon him, through the press, 
unmerited blame for publications with which he had no 
connection, and this doubtless led him, in 1715, before 
giving up direct party- writing, to publish his Appeal to 
Honour and Justice,’’ in which he sets forth in a manly, 
straightforward manner, and with due modesty, his line of 
conduct in public affairs, and shows that he always strove 
for moderation, " the only virtue by which the tranquility 
of the nation can be preserved.” Before this work was 
published Defoe was struck down with apoplexy, and it 
seemed as if his life’s work was ended, but before the end 
of the year he brought out “The Family Instructor,” which 
contains in an attractive form very sound advice for fathers 
and children, masters and servants, husbands and wives. 
To inculcate lessons on manners and morals in the simplest 
and pleasantest style seems to have been one of Defoe’s 
constant aims, and in this last work he excelled all his 
previous efforts. Three volumes of the book were pub- 
lished, and it was in great demand : it has since been 
reprinted many times. 

It was not until 1719, when he was fifty-eight years 
of age, that he turned his attention to fiction and produced 
“Eobinson Crusoe,” the most popular of all his works, 
and the one which will hand down his name to posterity 
as long as books will be read or stories of adventure be 
told. The great success of this work induced Defoe to 
write other works of fiction, the most important being, 
“ Further Adventures of Eobinson Crusoe ” ; “ Life of 
Captain Singleton ” ; “ Memoirs of a Cavalier ” ; and “ The 
Journal of the Plague Year.” This last gives an account 
of the plague of London in 1664, and is supposed to be 



LIFE OF DEFOE 


viii 

told by a citizen who was an eye-witness of what he 
relates; Mr. Chalmers, in his life of Defoe, says it is 
of sufficient merit to have seciyed immortality for the 
•author. Before the end of his Idog and very arduous life, 
Defoe published other works of great importance bearing 
upon the improvement of the laws, betterment of trade 
and commerce, and the uplifting of the social conditions 
of the people and in many instances in these and other 
works showed how much he was in advance of his times : 
his suggestion for the establishment of a University for 
London has only been realized in recent years. Amongst 
other books produced by him at this time may be men- 
tioned A Tour through Great Britain ’’ ; ‘‘ A New Voyage 
Bound the World’' ; “ History of Discoveries in Arts and 
Sciences ” ; The Complete English Tradesman ” ; and 
A Plan of English Commerce.” It has been conclusively 
shown by Mr. William Lee, who has written an admirable 
life of our author, that Defoe wrote more than two hundred 
and fifty books and pamphlets, the mere list of the titles 
of which would fill thirty pages of this book. With regard 
to the variety of the subjects dealt with by our author, 
Mr. Walter Wilson, in his excellent life of Defoe, says 
he wrote upon almost every subject within the range of 
human speculation — politics and morals, history and 
fiction — and in the number and variety of his works he 
stands unrivalled.” Besides being the most prolific writer 
of his time, he was one of the most brilliant. In his 
controversial writings he displays a keen wit, an acute 
intellect, sound judgment and clever reasoning powers. 
He acquired in the dear school of experience a thorough 
grasp of all questions relating to Trade and Commerce 
and took a leading place amongst his contemporaries as a 
writer on these subjects, which he treated in a compre- 
hensive, interesting and original manner. In fiction he 
displayed great inventive power, was a true painter of 



LIFE OF DEFOE 


IX 


^al life, and presented Ms quickly changing incidents 
in simple language and with a remarkable appearance of 
reality; but, above all, 1^ possessed the ability to point 
the moral of Ms story il the most interesting and con-** 
vincing manner. 

‘ He died in London, where he had spent the major 
portion of his life, in 1731. His varied life had more ups 
and downs of fortune than Crusoe, but through all he 
steadfastly held to his principles, and fearlessly fought for 
the rights of the subject, for greater liberty and toleration, 
and for the benefit of his country. 


Note. — The ship on the title-page is reproduced from the title- 
page of the second part of “ Bohinson Grusoef 
published in 1719^ at the sign of the Shijif in 
Paternoster Bow. 




ADVENTURES OF 

ROBINSON CRUSOE 


I WAS bom in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a 
good family, though not of that country, my father being 
a foreigner of Bremen, who settled first at Hull. He got a 
good estate by merchandise, and leaving off his trade, lived 
afterward at York, from whence he had married my mother, 
whose relations were named Eobinson, a very good family 
in that country, and from whom I was called Eobinson 
Kreutznaer; but by the usual corruption of words in 
England we are now called, nay, we call ourselves, and 
write our name, Crusoe, and so my companions always 
called me. 

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any 
trade, my head began to be filled very early with rambKng 
thoughts. My father, who was very ancient, had given me 
a competent share of learning, as far as house-education 
and a country free school generally goes, and designed me 
for the law; but I would be satisfied with nothing but 
going to sea ; and my inclination to this led me so strongly 
against the will, nay, the commands, of my father, and 
against all the entreaties and persuasions of my mfcther 
and other friends, that there seemed to be something fatal 
in that propension of nature tending directly to the life of 
misery which was to befall me. 

Being one day at Hull, where I went casually, and 
without any purpose of making an elopement; and one 

1 B 



2 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 


of my companions being going by sea to London, in 
father’s ship, and prompting me to go with them, with 
the common allurement of se|faring men, vi^i., ihat it 
should cost me nothing for yay passage, I consulted 
neither father or mother any more, nor so much as sent 
them word of it ; but leaving them to hear of it as they 
might, without asking God’s blessing, or my father’s, 
without any consideration of circumstances or conse- 
quences, and in an ill hour, on the first of September, 
1651, 1 went on board a ship bound for London. 

N'ever any young adventurer’s misfortunes, I believe, 
began sooner, or continued longer than mine. The ship 
was no sooner out of the Humber, but the wind began 
to blow, and the waves to rise in a most frightful manner ; 
and as I had never been at sea before, I was most in- 
expressibly sick in body, and terrified in my mind. I 
began now seriously to reflect upon what I had done, and 
how justly I was overtaken by the judgment of heaven 
for my wicked leaving my father’s house, and abandoning 
my duty. 

These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while 
the storm continued, and indeed some time after ; but the 
next day the wind was abated and the sea calmer, and I 
began to be a little inured to it. However, I was very 
grave for all that day, being also a little sea-sick still; but 
towards night the weather cleared up, the wind was quite 
over, and a charming fine evening followed ; the sun went 
down perfectly clear, and rose so the next morning ; and 
haying little or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun shining 
upon it, the sight was, as I thought, the most deHghtful 
that ever I saw. 

I had slept well in the night, and was now no more 
sea-sick but very cheerful, looking with Tronder upon the 
sea that was so rough and terrible the day before, and 
could be so calm and so pleasant in so little time after. 




4 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


And now, lest my good resolutions should continue, mj* 
companion, who had indeed enticed me away, comes to 
me : Well, Bob,^’ says he, clapning me on the shcidlder, 

how do you do after it ? I wailant you were frightened, 
wasn't you, last night, when it blew but a capful of wind ? 

A capful, d’you call it ? ” said I ; “ ’twas a terrible storm.” 

A storm, you fool you,” replies he ; “ do you call that a 
storm ? "^^y, it was nothing at all ; give us but a good 
ship and sea-room, and we think nothing of such a squall 
of wind as that ; but you're but a fresh- water sailor. Bob. 
Come, we'U forget all that; d'ye see what charming 
weather 'tis now ? ” 

The sixth day of our being at sea we came into 
Yarmouth roads ; the wind having been contrary and the 
weather calm, we had made but little way since the storm. 
Here we were obliged to come to an anchor, and here we 
lay, the wind continuing contrary, viz., at south-west, for 
seven or eight days, during which time a great many ships 
from ITewcastle came into the same roads, as the common 
harbour where the ships might wait for a wind for the 
river. 

We had not, however, ridden here so long, but should 
have tided it up the river, but that the wind blew too 
fresh ; and after we had lain four or five days, blew very 
hard. However, the roads being reckoned as safe as a 
harbour, the anchorage good, and our ground-tackle very 
strong, our men were unconcerned, and, not in the least 
apprehensive of danger, but spent the time in rest and 
mirth, after the manner of the sea ; but the eighth day in 
the morning the wind increased, and we had all hands at 
work to strike our topmasts, and make everything snug 
and close, that the ship might ride as easy as possible* By 
noon the sea ran very high indeed, and our ship rode fore- 
castle in, shipped several seas, and we thought once or 
twice our anchor had come home , upQu which our master* 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 5 

^ordered out tlie sheet-anchor, so that we rode with two 
anchors ahead, and the cables veered out to the end. 

this time it blew|i terrible storm indeed, and now 
I began to see terror and^ amazement in the faces even of 
the seamen themselves. The master, though vigilant to 
th^ business of preserving the ship, yet as he went in and 
out of his cabin by me, I could hear him softly to himself 
say several times, Lord, be merciful to us, we shall be all 
lost, we shall be all undone ” ; and the like. During these 
first hurries I was stupid, lying still in my cabin, which 
was in the steerage. But when the master himself came 
by me, as I said just now, and said we should be all lost, 
I was dreadfully frightened ; I got up out of my cabin, 
and looked out. But such a dismal sight I never saw ; the 
sea went mountains high, and broke upon us every three 
or four minutes; when I could look about, I could see 
nothing but distress around us. Two ships that rode near 
us we found had cut their masts by the board, being deep 
laden; and our men cried out that a ship which rode 
about a mile ahead of us was foundered. Two more ships 
being driven from their anchors were run out of the roads 
to sea at all adventures, and that with not a mast standing. 
The light ships fared the best, as not so much labouring in 
the sea ; but two or three of them drove, and came close 
by us, running away with only their sprit-sail out before 
the wind. 

Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the 
master of our ship to let them cut away the foremast, 
which he was very unwilling to. But the boatswain pro- 
testing to him that if he did not the ship would founder, 
he consented ; and when they had cut away the foremast, 
the mainmast stood so loose, and shook the ship so much, 
they were obliged to cut that away also, and make a clear 
deck. 

But the worst was not come yet ; the storm continued 



6 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


with such fury, that the seamen themselves acknowledged 
they had never known a worse. We had a good ship, but 
she was deep laden, and wallowed|in the sea, so thaf the 
seamen every now and then cried out she would founder. 
It was to my advantage in one respect, that I did not know 
what they meant by founder till I inquired. However, the 
storm was so violent, that I saw what is not often seen, 
the master, the boatswain, and some others more sensible 
than the rest, at their prayers, and expecting every moment 
that the ship would go to the bottom. In the middle of 
the night, and under all the rest of our distresses, one of 
the men who had been down on purpose to see cried out 
we had sprung a leak ; another said there was four foot 
of water in the hold. Then all hands were called to the 
pump. At that very word my heart, as I thought, died 
within me, and I fell backwards upon the side of my bed 
where I sat, into the cabin. However, the men roused me, 
and told me, that I, who was able to do nothing before, 
was as well able to pump as another ; at which I stirred 
up and went to the pump and worked very heartily. 
While this was doing, the master seeing some light colliers, 
who, not able to ride out the storm, were obliged to slip 
and run away to sea, and would come near us, ordered to 
fire a gun as a signal of distress. I, who knew nothing 
what that meant, was so surprised that I thought the ship 
had broken or some dreadful thing had happened. In a 
word I was so surprised that I fell down in a swoon. As 
this was a time when everybody had his own life to think 
of, nobody minded me, or what was become of me ; but 
another man stepped up to the pump, and tlorusting me 
aside vdth his foot, let me he, thinking I had been dead ; 
and it was a great while before I came to myself. 

We worked on, but the water increasing in the hold, it 
was apparent that the ship would founder, and though the 
storm began to abate a little, yet as it was not possible 



adventures of ROBINSON CRUSOE, 7 

the could swim till we might run into a port, so the master 
continued firing guns for help ; and a light ship, that had 
riddel^it out just ahead of us, ventured a boat out to help 
us. It was with the utmost hazard the boat came near us, 
but it was impossible for us to get on board, or for the 
boat to lie near the ship's side, till at last the men rowing 
very heartily, and venturing their lives to save ours, our 
men cast them a rope over the stern with a buoy to it, and 
then veered it out a great length, which they after great 
labour and hazard took hold of, and we hauled them close 
under our stern, and got all into their boat. It was to no 
purpose for them or us after we were in the boat to think 
of reaching their own ship, so all agreed to let her drive, 
and only to pull her in towards shore as much as we could, 
and our master promised them that if the boat was staved 
upon shore he would make it good to their master; so 
partly rowing and partly driving, our boat went away to 
the norVard, sloping towards the shore almost as far as 
Winterton Hess. 

While vre were in this condition, the men yet labouring 
at the oars to bring the boat near the shore, we could see, 
when, our boat mounting the waves we were able to see 
the shore, a great many people running along the shore to 
assist us when we should come near. But we made but 
slow way towards the shore, nor were we able to reach the 
shore, till being past the lighthouse at Winterton, the shore 
falls off to the westward towards Cromer, and so the land 
broke off a little the violence of the wind. Here we got 
in, and though not without much difficulty got all safe on 
shore, and walked afterwards on foot to Yarmouth, where, 
as unfortunate men, we were used with great humanity as 
well by the magistrates of the town, who assigned us good 
quarters, as by particular merchants and owners of ships, 
and had money given us sufficient to carry us either to 
London or back to Hull, as we thought fit. 



8 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good com- 
pany in London, wMch does not always happen to such 
loose and misguided young fellows as I then was. € first 
fell acquainted with the master or a ship who had been on 
the coast of Guinea, and who, having had very good success" 
there, was resolved to go again ; and who, taking a fancy 
to my conversation, which was not at all disagreeable at 
that time, hearing me say I had a mind to see the world, 
told me if I would go the voyage with him I should be at 
no expense ; I should be his messmate and his companion ; 
and if I could carry anything with me, I should have all 
the advantage of it that trade would admit, and perhaps I 
might meet with some encouragement. 

I embraced the offer and entering into a strict friend- 
ship with this captain, who was an honest and plain-dealing 
man, I went the voyage with him, and carried a small 
adventure with me, which, by the disinterested honesty of 
my friend the captain, I increased very considerably, for I 
carried about £40 in such toys and trifles as the captain 
directed me to buy. This £40 I had mustered together by 
the assistance of some of my relations whom I corresponded 
with, and* who, I believe, got my father, or at least my 
mother, to contribute to my first adventure. 

This was the only voyage which I may say was success- 
ful in all my adventures, and this I owe to the integrity 
and honesty of my friend the captain ; under whom also I 
got a competent knowledge of the mathematics and the 
rules of navigation, learned how to keep an account of the 
ship’s course, take an observation, and, in short, to under- 
stand some things that were needful to be understood by 
a sailor. For, as he took delight to teach me, I took 
delight to learn; and, in a word, this voyage made me 
both a sailor and a merchant; for I brought home five 
pounds nine ounces of gold dust for my adventure, which 
yielded me in London at my return almost £300, and this 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 9 

felled me witli those aspiring thoughts which haye since so 
completed my ruin. 

I was now set up foma Guinea trader; and my friend,^ 
to my great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I 
resolved to go the same voyage again, and I embarked in 
the same vessel with one who was his mate in the former 
voyage, and had now got the command of the ship. This 
was the unhappiest voyage that ever man made ; for though 
I did not carry quite £100 of my new-gained wealth, so 
that I had £200 left, which I lodged with my friend's 
widow, who was very just to me, yet I fell into terrible 
misfortunes in this voyage ; and the first was this, viz., our 
ship making her course towards the Canary Islands, or 
rather between those islands and the African shore, was 
surprised in the grey of the morning by a Turkish rover of 
Sallee, who gave chase to us with all the sail shp could 
make. We crowded also as much canvas as our yards 
would spread, or our masts carry, to have got clear ; but 
finding the pirate gained upon us, and would certainly 
come up with us in a few hours, we prepared to fight, our 
ship having twelve guns, and the rogue eighteen. About 
three in the afternoon he came up with us, and bringing 
to, by mistake, just athwart our quarter, instead of athwart 
our stern, as he intended, we brought eight of our guns to 
bear on that side, and poured in a broadside upon him, 
which made him sheer off again, after returning our fire 
and pouring in also his small-shot from near 200 men 
whom he had on board. However, we had not a man 
touched, all our men keeping close. He prepared to attack 
us again, and we to defend ourselves ; but laying us on 
board the next time upon our other quarter, he entered 
§ixty men upon our decks, who immediately fell to cutting 
and hacking the decks and rigging. We plied them with 
small-shot, half -pikes, powder-chests, and such like, and 
cleared our deck of them twice. However, to cut short 



10 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


tMs melancholy part of our story, our ship being disabled, 
and three of our men killed and eight wounded, we were 
obliged to yield, and were carried^all prisoners into sSllee, 
a port belonging to the Moors. 

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first T 
apprehended, nor was I carried up the country to the 
emperor’s court, as the rest of our men were, but was kept 
by the captain of the rover as his proper prize, and made 
his slave, being young and nimble, and tit for his business. 

As my new patron, or master, had taken me home to 
his house, so I was in hopes that he would take me with 
him when he went to sea again, believing that it would 
some time or other be his fate to be taken by a Spanish 
or Portugal man-of-war ; and that then I should be set at 
liberty. But this hope of mine was soon taken away; for 
when he went to sea, he left me on shore to look after his 
little garden, and do the common drudgery of slaves about 
his house ; and when he came home again from his cruise, 
he ordered me to lie in the cabin to look after the ship. 

After about two years an odd circumstance presented 
itself, which put the old thought of making some attempt 
for my liberty again in my head. My patron lying at 
home longer than usual without fitting out his ship, which, 
as I heard, was for want of money, he used constantly, once 
or twice a week, sometimes oftener if the weather was fair, 
to take the ship’s pinnace and go out into the road 
a-fishing; and as he always took me and a young Maresco 
with him to row the boat we made him very merry, and 
I proved very dexterous in catching fish ; insomuch, that 
sometimes he would send me with a Moor, one of his 
kinsmen, and the youth the Maresco, as they called him, 
to catch a dish of fish for him. 

It happened one time that, going a-fisHng in a stark 
calm morning, a fog rose so thick, that though we were 
not half a league from the shore we lost sight of it ; and 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 11 

rawing we knew not whitker or wMck way, we laboured 
all day, and all the next night, and when the morning 
came we found we had pulled off to sea instead of pulling 
in for the shore ; and that we were at least two leagues 
ffbm the shore. However, we got well in again, though 
with a great deal of labour, and some danger, for the wind 
began to blow pretty fresh in the morning ; but particularly 
we were all very hungry. 

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to 
take more care of himself for the future ; and having lying 
by him the long-boat of our English ship which he had 
taken, he resolved he would not go a-fishing any more 
without a compass and some provision ; so he ordered the 
carpenter of his ship, who also was an English slave, to 
build a little state-room, or cabin, in the middle of the 
long-boat, like that of a barge, with a place to stand 
behind it to steer and haul home the mainsheet, and room 
before for a hand or two to stand and work the sails. 

We went frequently out with this boat a-fishing, and 
as I was most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never 
went without me. It happened that he had appointed to 
go out in this boat, either for pleasure or for fish, with two 
or three Moors of some distinction in that place, and for 
whom he had provided extraordinarily ; and had therefore 
sent on board the boat overnight a larger store of provisions 
than ordinary; and had ordered me to get ready three 
fuzees with powder and shot, which were on board Ms 
sMp, for that they designed some sport of fowling as well 
as fishing. 

I got all things ready as he had directed, and waited 
the next morning with the boat, washed clean, and every- ^ 
thing to accommodate his guests; when by-and-by my 
patron came on board alone, and told me his guests had 
put off going, upon some business that fell out, and ordered 
me with the man and boy, as usual, to go out with the 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


boat and catch them some fish, for that his friends were 
to sup at Ms house; and commanded that as soon as I 
had got some fish I should briijig it home to Ms Siouse ; 
all wMch I prepared to do. 

This moment my former notions of deliverance darted 
into my thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a 
little ship at my command ; and my master being gone, I 
prepared to furnish myself, not for a fishing business, but 
for a voyage ; though I knew not, neither did I so much 
as consider, wMther I should steer ; for anywhere, to get 
out of that place, was my way. 

My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak 
to this Moor, to get sometMng for our subsistence on board; 
for I told him we must not presume to eat of our patron’s 
bread. He said that was true ; so he brought a large 
basket of rusk or biscuit of their kind, and three jars with 
fresh water, into .the boat. I knew where my patron’s 
case of bottles stood, which it was evident by the make 
were taken out of some English prize; and I conveyed 
them into the boat while the Moor was on shore, as if they 
had been there before for our master. I conveyed also a 
great lump of beeswax into the boat, wMch weighed above 
half a hundredweight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a 
hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all which were of great use 
to us afterwards, especially the wax to make candles. 
Thus furnished with everythmg needful, we sailed out of 
the port to fish. The castle, which is at the entrance of 
the port, knew who we were, and took no notice of us ; and 
we were not above a mile out of the port before we hauled 
in our sail, and set us down to fish. The wind blew from 
the N.N.E,, which was contrary to my desire ; for had it 
blown southerly I had been sure to have made the coast 
of Spain, and at least reached to the bay of Cadiz ; but my 
resolutions were, blow which way it would, I would be gone 
from the horrid place where 1 was, and leave the rest to Fate. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 13 


After we had fished some time and caught nothing, 
for, when I had fish on my hook I would not pull them 
up tBit he might see them, I said to the Moor, This 
'^l not do; our master will not be thus served; wo must 
stand farther off.” He, thinking no harm, agreed, and 
being in the head of the boat, set the sails ; and as I had 
the helm I ran the boat out near a league farther, and then 
brought her to as if I would fish ; when, giving the boy 
the helm, I stepped forward to where the Moor was, and 
making as if I stooped for something behind him., I took 
him by surprise with my arm under his waist, and tossed 
him clear overboard into the sea. He rose immediately, 
for he swam like a cork, and calling to me, begged to be 
taken in, and told me he would go all the world over 
with me. He swam so strong after the boat, that he would 
have reached me very quickly, there being but little wind ; 
upon which I stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of 
the fowling-pieces, I presented it at him, and told him I 
had done him no hurt, and if he would be quiet I would 
do him none. But,” said I, you swim well enough to 
reach the shore, and the sea is calm ; make the best of 
your way to shore, and I will do you no harm ; but if you 
come near the boat I'll shoot you through the head, for I 
am resolved to have my liberty.” So he turned himself 
about, and swam for the shore, and I make no doubt but 
he reached it with ease, for he was an excellent swimmer. 

I could have been content to have taken this Moor with 
me, and have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing 
to trust him. When he was gone I turned to the boy, 
whom they called Xury, and said to him, “ Xury, if you 
will be faithful to me 111 make you a great man ; but if 
you will not stroke your face to be true to me,” that is, 
swear by Mahomet and his father’s beard, I must throw 
you into the sea too.” The boy smiled in my face, and 
spoke so innocently, that I could not mistrust him, and 



14 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


swore to be faithful to me, and go all over the worH 
with me. 

While I was in view of the Moor who was swii^Lming, 
I stood out directly to sea with uhe boat, rather stretching 
to windward, that they might think me gone towards tke 
straits’ mouth. 

But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed 
my course, and steered directly south and by east, bending 
my course a little toward the east, that I might keep in 
with the shore ; and having a fair, fresh gale of wind, and 
a smooth, quiet sea, I made such sail that I believe by the 
next day at three o’clock in the afternoon, when I first 
made the land, I could not be less than 150 miles south of 
Sallee ; quite beyond the Emperor of Morocco’s dominions, 
or indeed of any other king thereabouts, for we saw no 
people. 

Yet such was the fright I had taken at the ^Moors, 
and the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into their 
hands, that I would not stop, or go on shore, or come to 
an anchor, the wind continuing fair, till I had sailed in 
that manner five days ; and then the wind shifting to the 
southward, I concluded also that if any of our vessels 
were in chase of me, they also would now give over ; so 
I ventured to make the coast, and came to an anchor in 
the mouth of a little river, I knew not what, or where ; 
neither what latitude, what country, what nation, or what 
river. I neither saw, nor desired to see, any people ; the 
principal thing I wanted was fresh water. We came into 
this creek in the evening, resolving to swim on shore as 
soon as it was dark, and discover the country ; but as soon 
as it was quite dark we heard such dreadful noises of the 
barking, roaring, and howling of wild creatures of we 
knew not what kinds, that the poor boy was ready to die 
with fear, and begged of me not to go on shore till day. 

Xury was dreadfully frightened, and indeed so was I 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 15 

«t}oo; but we were botb more frightened when we heard 
one of these mighty creatures come swimming towards our 
boat\we could not see him, but we might hear him by 
Ms blowing to be a molstrous, huge, and furious beastr 
%Kury said it was a lion, and it might be so for aught I 
know ; but poor Xury cried to me to weigh the anchor 
and row away. "No,” says I, “Xury; we can slip our 
cable with the buoy to it, and go off to sea ; they cannot 
follow us far/' I had no sooner said so but I perceived 
the creature (whatever it was) within two oars' length, 
wMch something surprised me; however, I immediately 
stepped to the cabin door, and taking up my gun, fired at 
him, upon wMch he immediately turned about and swam 
towards the shore again. 

But it is impossible to describe the horrible noises, 
and hideous cries and bowlings, that were raised, as well 
upon the edge of the shore as Mgher within the country, 
upon the noise or report of the gun, a thing I have some 
reason to believe those creatures had never heard before. 
TMs convinced me that there was no going on shore fqr 
us in the night upon that coast ; and how to venture on 
shore in the day was another question too ; for to have 
fallen into the hands of any of the savages, had been as 
bad as to have fallen into the hands of lions and tigers ; 
at least we were equally apprehensive of the danger of it. 

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore 
somewhere or other for water, for we had not a pint left 
in the boat ; when or where to get to it, was the point. 
Xury said if I would let him go on shore with one of the 
jars, he would find if there was any water, and bring some 
to me. I asked Mm why he would go ? why I should not 
go and he stay in the boat ? The boy answered with so 
much affection, that made me love him ever after. Says 
he, “If wild mans come, they eat me, you go way." 
“Well, Xury," said I, “we will both go; and ii the wild 



16 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


mans come, we will kill them, they shall eat neither of 
ns.” So I gave Xury a piece of rusk bread to eat, and a 
dram out of our patron's case of bottles which I mei^oned 
before ; and we hauled in the bT)at as near the shore as 
we thought was proper, and so waded on shore, carrying 
nothing but our arms and two jars for water. 

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing 
the coming of canoes with savages down the river ; but 
the boy seeing a low place about a mile up the country, 
rambled to it, and by-and-by I saw him come running 
towards me. I thought he was pursued by some savage, or 
frightened by some wild beast, and I ran forward towards 
him to help him ; but when I came nearer to him, 1 saw 
something hanging over his shoulders, which was a creature 
that he had shot, like a hare, but different in colour, and 
with longer legs. However, we were very glad of it, and 
it was very good meat ; but the gi’eat joy that poor Xury 
came with was to tell me he had found good water, and 
seen no wild mans. 

As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew 
very well that the islands of the Canaries, and the Cape 
de Verde Islands also, lay not far off from the coast. But 
as I had no instruments to take an observation to know 
what latitude we were in, and did not exactly know, or 
at least remember, what latitude they were in, I knew 
not where to look for them, or when to stand off to sea 
towards them ; otherwise I might now easily have found 
some of these islands. But my hope was, that if I stood 
along this coast till I came to that part where the English 
traded, I should find some of their vessels upon their usual 
design of trade, that would relieve and take us in. 

Once or twice in the daytime I thought I saw the Pico 
of Teneriffe, being the high top of the Mountain Teneriffe 
in the Canaries, and had a great mind to venture out, in 
hopes of reaching thither ; but having tried twice, I was 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 17 


firced in again by contrary winds, tlie sea also going too 
high for my little vessel ; so I resolved to pursue my first 
design^^and keep along the shore. 

Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water 
a^ter we had left this place ; and once in particular, being 
early in the morning, we came to an anchor under a little 
point of land which w^as pretty high ; and the tide beginning 
to flow, we lay still to go farther in. Xury, whose eyes 
were more about him than it seems mine were, calls softly 
to me, and tells me that we had best go farther off the 
shore; ‘‘For,’' says he, “look, yonder lies a dreadful 
monster on the side of that hillock fast asleep.” I looked 
where he pointed, and saw a dreadful monster indeed, for 
it was a terrible great lion that lay on the side of the 
shore, under the shade of a piece of the hill that hung as 
it were a little over him. “ Xury,” says I, “ you shall go 
on shore and kill him,” Xury looked frightened, and 
said, “Me kDll he eat me at one mouth” ; one mouthful 
he meant. 

However, I said no more to the boy, but bade him lie 
still, and I took our biggest gun, and loaded it with a 
good charge of powder, and with two slugs, and laid it 
down ; then I loaded another gun with two bullets ; and 
the third (for we had three pieces) I loaded with five 
smaller bullets. I took the best aim I could with the 
first piece to have shot him in the head, but he lay so 
with his leg raised a little above his nose that the slugs 
hit his leg about the knee, and broke the bone. He started 
up growling at first, but finding his leg broken, fell down 
again, and then got up upon three legs and gave the most 
hideous roar that ever I heard. I was a little surprised 
that I had not hit him on the head. However, I took up 
the second piece immediately, and, though he began to 
move off, fired again, and shot him in the head, and had 
the pleasui'e to see Mm drop, and make but little noise, 

o 



18 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


but lay struggling for life. Then Xury took heart, aid 
would have me let him go on shore. ‘‘Well, go/’ said I ; 
so the boy jumped into the water, and taking a lit^^e gun 
in one hand, swam to shore 4iih the other hand, and 
coming close to the creature, put the muzzle of the pieee 
to his ear, and shot him in the head again, which despatched 
him quite. 

This was game indeed to us, but it was not food ; and 
I was very sorry to lose three charges of powder and shot 
upon a creature that was good for nothing to us. However, 
Xury said he would have some of him ; so he came on 
board, and asked me to give him the hatchet. “ For what, 
Xury ? ” said I. “ Me cut off his head,” said he. However, 
Xury could not cut off his head, but he cut off a foot, and 
brought it with him, and it was a monstrous great one. 

I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the skin of 
him might one way or other be of some value to us ; and 
I resolved to take off his skin if I could. So Xury and I 
went to Work with him ; but Xury was much the better 
workman at it, for I knew very ill how to do it. Indeed, 
it took us both the whole day, but at last we got off the 
Mde of him, and spreading it on the top of our cabin, 
the sun effectually dried it in two days’ time, and it after- 
wards served me to lie upon. 

After this stop we made on to the southward con- 
tinually for ten or twelve days, living very sparing on 
our provisions, which began to abate very much, and going 
no oftener into the shore than we were obliged to for fresh 
water. My design in this was to make the river Gambia 
or Senegal — that is to say, anywhere about the Cape de 
Verde — where I was in hopes to meet with some European 
ship ; and if I did not, I knew not what course I had to 
take, but to seek for the islands, or perish there among 
the negroes. I knew that all the ships from Europe, which 
sailed either to the coast of Guinea or to Brazil, or to the 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 19 


ESst Indies, made this cape, or those islands ; and in a 
word, I put the whole of fortune upon this single point, 
either tiat I must meet wkh some ship, or must perish. 

When I had pursued lihis resolution about ten days 
loiter, as I have said, I began to see that the land was 
inhabited ; and in two or three places, as we sailed by, we 
saw people stand upon the shore to look at us ; we could 
also perceive they were quite black, and stark naked. I 
was once inclined to have gone on shore to them; but 
Xury was my better counsellor, and said to me, “ hTo go, 
no go.'’ However, I hauled in nearer the shore that I might 
talk to them, and I found they ran along the shore by me 
a good way. I observed they had no weapons in their 
hands, except one, who had a long slender stick, which 
Xury said was a lance, and that they would throw them 
a great way with good aim. So I kept at a distance, but 
talked with them by signs as well as I could, and particu- 
larly made signs for something to eat ; they beckoned to me 
to stop my boat, and that they would fetch me some meat. 
UpQp this I lowered the top of my sail, and lay by, and 
two of them ran up into the country and in less than half 
an hour came back, and brought with them two pieces of 
dried flesh and some corn, such as is the produce of their 
country ; but we neither knew what the one or the other 
was. However, we were willing to accept it, but how to 
come at it was our next dispute, for I was not for venturing 
on shore to them, and they were as much afraid of us ; but 
they took a safe way for us all, for they brought it to the 
shore and laid it do’wn, and went and stood a great way off 
till we fetched it on board, and then came close to us again. 

I was now furnished with roots and com, such as it was, 
and water ; and leaving my friendly negroes, I made forward 
for about eleven days more, without offering to go near the 
shore, till I saw the land run out a great length into the sea, 
at about the distance of four or five leagues before me ; and 



£0 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


tlie sea being very calm, I kept a large offing, to make tSis 
point. At length, doubling the point, at about two leagues 
from the land, I saw plainly ^land on the other^ide, to 
seaward; then I concluded, as It was most certain indeed, 
that this was the Cape de Verde, and those the islatffis, 
called from thence Cape de Verde Islands, However, they 
were at a great distance, and I could not well tell what 
I had best to do ; for if I should be taken with a fresh of 
wind, I might neither reach one or other. 

In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into 
the cabm, and sat me down, Xury having the helm ; when, 
on a sudden, the boy cried out, “ Master, master, a ship with 
a sail ! ” and the foolish boy was frightened out of his 
wits, thinking it must needs be one of his master’s ships 
sent to pursue us, when I knew we were far enough out 
of their reach. I jumped out of the cabin, and immedi- 
ately saw, not only the ship, but what she was, viz., that 
it was a Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was bound to 
the coast of Guinea, for negroes. But when I observed 
the course she steered, I was soon convinced they were 
bound some other way, and did not design to come any 
nearer to shore ; upon which I stretched out to sea, as 
much as I could, resolving to speak with them, if possible. 

With all the sail I could make, I found I should not 
be able to come in their way, but that they would be gone 
by before I could make any signal to them; but after 
I had crowded to the utmost, and began to dispair, they, it 
seems, saw me by the help of their perspective glasses, and 
that it was some European boat, which, as they supposed, 
must belong to some ship that was lost, so they shortened 
sail to let me come up. I was encouraged with this ; and 
as I had my patron’s ancient on board, I made a waft of it 
to them for a signal of distress, and fired a gun, both which 
they saw ; for they told me they saw the smoke, though 
they did not hear the gun. Upon these signals they kindly 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

bi%\ight to, and lay by for me ; and in about three hours' 
time I came np with them. 

The^ asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in 
Spanish, and in French, but I understood none of them ; 
bui at last a Scots sailor, who was on board, called to me, 
and I answered him, and told him I was an Englishman, 
that I had made my escape out of slavery from the Moors, 
at Sallee. Then they bade me come on board, and very 
kindly took me in, and all my goods. 

It was an inexpressible joy to me, that any one will 
believe, that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from 
such a miserable, and almost hopeless, condition as I was 
in ; and I immediately offered all I had to the captain of 
the ship, as a return for my deliverance. But he generously 
told me he would take nothing from me, but that all I had 
should be delivered safe to me when I came to the Brazils. 
“ For,” says he, “ I have saved your life on no other terms 
than I would be glad to be saved myself, and it may, one 
time or other, be my lot to be taken up in the same condition. 
Besides,” says he, when I carry you to the Brazils, so 
great a way from your own country, if I should take from 
you what you have, you will be starved there, and then 
I only take away that life I have given. Ko, no, Seignior 
Inglese,” says he, “Mr. Englishman, I wUl carry you 
thither in charity, and those things wiU help you to buy 
your subsistence there, and your passage home again.” 

As he was charitable in his proposal, so he was just in 
the performance to a tittle ; for he ordered the seamen that 
none should offer to touch anything I had ; then he took 
everything into his own possession, and gave me back an 
exact inventory of them, that I might have them, even so 
much as my three earthen jars. 

As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that he 
saw, and told me he would buy it of me for the ship’s use, 
and asked me what I would have for it ? I told him he 



%% ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


had been so generous to me in everything, that I could ifot 
offer to make any price of the boat, but left it entirely to 
him ; upon which he told me he would give me ^note of 
his hand to pay me eighty pieces of eight for it at Brazil, 
and when it came there, if any one offered to give m«re, 
he would make it up. He offered me also sixty pieces of 
eight more for my boy Xury, which I was loth to take; 
not that I was not willing to let the captain have him, but 
I was very* loth to sell the poor boy's liberty, who had 
assisted me so faithfully in procuring my own. However, 
when I let him know my reason, he owned it to be just, 
and offered me this medium, that he would give the boy an 
obligation to set him free in ten years if he turned Christian. 
Upon this, and Xury saying he was willing to go to him, 
I let the captain have him. 

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived 
in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints' Bay, in 
about twenty-two days after. And now I was once more 
delivered from the most miserable of all conditions of life 
and what to do next with myself I was now to consider. 

The generous treatment the captain gave, I can never 
enough remember. He would take nothing of me for my 
passage, gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's skin, and 
forty for the lion's skin, which I had in my boat, and 
caused everything I had in the ship to be punctually 
delivered to me ; and what I was willing to sell he bought, 
such as the case of bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of 
the lump of beeswax — for I had made candles of the rest ; 
in a word, I made about 220 pieces of eight of all my cargo, 
and with this stock I went on shore in the Brazils. 

I had not been long here, but being recommended to 
the house of a good honest man like himself, who had an 
ingdno as they call it, that is, a plantation and a sugar- 
house, I lived with him some time, and acquainted myself 
by that means with the manner of their planting and 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 23 


Aaking of sugar ; and seeing how well the planters lived, 
and how they grew rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could 
get licSince to settle there, I would turn planter among 
them, resolving in the meantime to find out some way to 
get my money which I had left in London remitted to me. 
To this purpose, getting a kind of a letter of naturalisation, 
I purchased as much land that was uncured as my money 
would reach, and formed a plan for my plantation and 
settlement, and such a one as might be suitable to the 
stock which I proposed to myself to receive from England. 

I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of 
English parents, whose name was Wells, and in much such 
circumstances as I was. I call him my neighbour, because 
his plantation lay next to mine, and we went on very 
sociably together. My stock was but low, as well as his ; 
and we rather planted for food than anything else, for 
about two years. However, we began to increase, and our 
land began to come into order; so that the third year we 
planted some tobacco, and made each of us a large piece 
of ground ready for ^planting canes in the year to come. 
But we both wanted help ; and now I found more than 
before that I had done wrong in parting with my boy 
Xury. 

I was in some degree settled in my measures for carry- 
ing on the plantation before my kind friend, the captain 
of the ship that took me up at sea, went back ; for the 
ship remained there in providing his loading, and preparing 
for his voyage, near three months; when telling him 
what little stock I had left behind me in London, he gave 
me this friendly and sincere advice : ‘‘ Seignior Inglese,'* 
says he, for so he always called me, “ if you wiU. give me 
letters, and a procuration here in form to me, with orders 
to the person who has your money in London to send your 
effects to Lisbon, to such persons as I shall direct, and in 
such goods as are proper for this country, I will bring you 



U ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


the produce of them, God willing, at my return- Bift 
since human affairs are all subject to changes and disasters, 
I would have you give orders buji for one hundred (founds 
sterling, which, you say, is half your stock, and let the 
hazard be run for the first ; so that if it come safe, you 
may order the rest the same way ; and if it miscarry, you 
may have the other half to have recourse to for your 
supply/’ 

This was so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly, 
that I could not but be convinced it was the best course 
I could take; so I accordingly prepared letters to the 
gentlewoman with whom I had left my money, and a 
procuration to the Portuguese captain, as he desired. 

I wrote the English captain’s widow a full account of 
all my adventures; my slavery, escape, and how I had 
met with the Portugal captain at sea, the humanity of his 
behaviour and in what condition I was now in, with all 
other necessary directions for my supply. And when this 
honest captain came to Lisbon, he found means, by some 
of the English merchants there, to sei;id over not the order 
only, but a full account of my story to a merchant at 
London, who represented it effectually to her ; whereupon, 
she not only delivered the money, but out of her own 
pocket sent the Portugal captain a very handsome present 
for his humanity and charity to me. 

The merchant in London vesting this hundred pounds 
in English goods, such as the captain had written for, 
sent them directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought them 
all safe to. me to the Brazils ; among which, without my 
direction (for I was too young in my business to think of 
them), he had taken care to have all sorts of tools, iron- 
work, and utensils necessary for my plantation, and these 
were of great use to me. 

When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune made, 
for I was surprised with joy of it ; ani my good steward, 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 25 


fcHb captain, had laid out the five pounds, which my friend 
had sent him for a present for himself, to purchase and 
bring ilie over a servant under bond for six years' service, 
and would not accept of any consideration, except a little 
tobacco, which I would have him accept, being of my own 
produce. 

Neither was this all ; but my goods being all English 
manufactures, such as cloth, stuffs, baize, and things 
particularly valuable and desirable in the country, I found 
means to sell them to a very great advantage ; so that I 
may say I had more than four times the value of my first 
cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my poor neighbour, 
I mean in the advancement of my plantation ; for the first 
thing I did, I bought me a negro slave, and an European 
servant also; I mean another besides that which the 
captain brought me from Lisbon. 

But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very 
means of our greatest adversity, so was it with me. I 
went on the next year with great success in my plantation, 
I raised fifty gi*eat rolls of tobacco on my own ground, 
more than I had disposed of for necessaries among my 
neighbours; and these fifty rolls, being each of above a 
hundredweight, were well cured, and laid by against the 
return of the fleet from Lisbon. And now, increasing in 
business and in wealth, my head began to be full of 
projects and undertakings beyond my reach, such as are, 
indeed, often the ruin of the best heads in business. 

You may suppose, that having now lived almost four 
years in the Brazils, and beginning to thrive and prosper 
very well upon my plantation, I had not only learned the 
language, but had contracted acquaintance and friendship 
among my fellow-planters, as well as among the merchants 
of St. Salvador, which was our port, and that in my dis- 
courses among them I had frequently given them an 
account of my two Voyages to the coast of Guinea, the 



26 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


manner of trading with the negroes there, and how eaSy 
it was to purchase upon the coast for trifles — such as 
beads, toys, knives, scissors, hatchets, bits of gla^s, and 
the like— not only gold-dust, ^Guinea grains, elephants’ 
teeth, etc., but negroes, for the service of the Bra2:ils,-^in 
great numbers. 

They listened always very attentively to my discourses 
on these heads, but especially to that part which related 
to the buying of negroes ; which was a trade, at that time, 
not only not far entered into, but, as far as it was, had 
been carried on by the assiento, or permission, of the 
Xings of Spain and Portugal, so that negroes were 
brought, and those excessive dear. 

It happened, being in company with some merchants 
and planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those 
things very earnestly, three of them came to me tlie next 
morning, and told me they had been musing very much 
upon what I had discoursed with them of, the last night, 
and they came to make a secret proposal to me. And 
after enjoining secrecy, they told me that they had a 
mind to fit out a ship to go to Guinea ; that they all had 
plantations as well as I, and were straitened for nothing 
so much as servants ; that as it was a trade that could not be 
carried on because they could not publicly sell the negftes 
when they came home, so they desired to make but one 
voyage, to bring the negroes on shore privately, and 
divide them among their own plantations ; and, in a word, 
the question was, whether I would go as their supercargo 
in the ship, to manage the trading part upon the coast of 
Guinea ; and they offered me that I should have my equal 
share of the negroes without providing any part of the 
stock. 

This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed, had it 
been made to any one that had not had a settlement and 
plantation of his own to look after, which was in a fair 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 27 


Way of coining to be very considerable, and with a good 
stock upon it. But for me, that was thus entered and 
establ^hed, and had nothing to do but go on as I had 
begun, for three or four years more, and to have sent for 
tke other hundred pounds from England ; and who, in 
that time, and with that little addition, could scarce have 
failed of being worth three or four thousand pounds 
sterling, and that increasing too — for me to think of such 
a voyage, was the most preposterous thing that ever man, 
in such circumstances, could be guilty of. 

But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could 
not resist the offer, and I told them I would go with 
all my heart, if they would undertake to look after my 
plantation in my absence, and would dispose of it to such 
as I should direct if I miscarried. This they all engaged 
to do, and entered into writings or covenants to do so ; 
and I made a formal will, disposing of my plantation and 
effects, in case of my death ; making the captain of the 
ship that had saved my life, as before, my universal heir, 
but obliging him to dispose of my effects as I had directed 
in my will ; one half of the produce being to himself, and 
the other to be shipped to England. 

In short, I took all possible cause to preserve my 
effects, and keep up my plantation. Had I used half as 
much prudence to have looked into my own interest, and 
have made a judgment of what I ought to have done and 
not to have done, I had certainly never gone away from 
so prosperous an undertaking, leaving all the probable 
views of a thriving circumstance, and gone upon a voyage 
to sea, attended with all its common hazards, to say 
nothing of the reasons I had to expect particular mis- 
fortunes to myself. 

But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates 
of my fancy rather than my reason. And accordingly, the 
ship being fitted out, and the cargo furnished, and all 



28 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


tHngs doE0 as by agreement by my partners in th& 
voyage, I went on board in an evil bom [tbe first of 
September 1659], being the same day eight year^^that T 
went from my father and mother at Hull, in order to act 
the rebel to their authority, and the fool to my own 
interest. 

Our ship was about 120 tons burthen, carried six guns 
and fourteen men, besides the master, his boy, and myself. 
We had on board no large cargo of goods, except of such 
toys as were fit for our trade with the negroes — such as 
beads, bits of glass, shells, and odd trifles, especially little 
looking-glasses, knives, scissors, hatchets, and the like. 

The same day I went on board we set sail, standing 
away to the northward upon our own coast, with design 
to stretch over for the African coast, when we came to 
about ten or twelve degrees of northern latitude. We 
passed the line in about twelve days' time, and were, by 
our last observation, in seven degrees twenty-two minutes 
northern latitude, when a violent tornado, or hurricane, 
took us quite out of our knowledge. It began from the 
south-east, came about to the north-west, and then settled 
into the north-east, from whence it blew in such a terrible 
manner, that for twelve days together we could do nothing 
but drive, and, scudding away before it, let it carry us 
wherever fate and the fury of the winds directed ; and 
during these twelve days, I need not say that I expected 
every day to be swallowed up, nor, indeed, did any in the 
ship expect to save their lives. 

In this distress we had, besides the terror of the storm, 
one of our men die of the calenture, and one man and the 
boy washed overboard. About the twelfth day, the weather 
abating a little, the master made an observation as well 
as he could, and found that he was upon the coast of 
Gruiana, or the north part of -Brazil, beyond the river 
Amazon, toward the river Orinoco, commonly called the 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, m 


€rreat Eiver, and began to consult with me what course 
we should take, for the ship was leaky and very much dis- 
abled, tand he was for going directly back to the coast of 
Brazil. 

- I was positively against that; and looking over the 
charts of the sea-coast of America with him, we concluded 
there was no inhabited country for us to have recourse to 
till we came within the circle of the Caribbee Islands, and 
therefore resolved to stand away for the Barbadoes, which 
by keeping off at sea, to avoid the indraft of the Bay or 
Gulf of Mexico, we might easily perform, as we hoped, in 
about fifteen days’ sail; whereas we could not possibly 
make our voyage to the coast of Africa without some 
assistance, both to our ship and to ourselves. 

With this design we changed our course, and steered 
away N.W. by W. in order to reach some of our English 
islands, where I hoped for relief. But our voyage was 
otherwise determined, for a second storm came upon us, 
which carried us away with the same impetuosity west- 
ward, and drove us so far out of the very way of all human 
commerce, that had all our lives been saved, as to the sea, 
we were rather in danger of being devoured by savages 
than ever returning to our own country. 

In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one 
of our men early in the morning cried out, “ Land ! ” and 
we had no sooner run out of the cabin to look out, in hopes 
of seeing whereabouts in the world we were, when the ship 
struck upon a sand, and in a moment, her motion being so 
stopped, the sea broke over her in such a manner, that we 
expected we should all have perished immediately ; and 
we were immediately driven into our close quarters, to 
shelter us from the very foam and spray of the sea 

It is not easy for any one, who has not been in the like 
condition, to describe or conceive the consternation of men 
in such circumstances. We knew nothing where we were. 



30 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


or upon what land it was we were driven, whether afi 
island or the main, whether inhabited or not inhabited ; 
and as the rage of the wind was still great, though*cather 
^ less than at first, we could not so much as hope to have 
the ship hold many minutes without breaking in pieces, 
unless the winds, by a kind of miracle, should turn imme- 
diately about. In a word, we sat looking one upon 
another, and expecting death every moment, and every 
man acting accordingly, as preparing for another world; 
for there was little or nothing more for us to do in this. 
That which was our present comfort, and all the comfort 
we had, was that, contrary to our expectation, the ship 
did not break yet, and that the master said the wind 
began to abate. 

hTow, though we thought that the wind did a little 
abate, yet the ship having thus struck upon the sand, and 
stickmg too fast for us to expect her getting off, we were 
in a dreadful condition indeed, and had nothing to do but 
to think of saving our lives as well as we could. We had 
a boat at our stern just before the storm, but she was first 
staved by dashing against the ship's rudder, and in the 
next place, she broke away, and either sank, or was driven 
off to sea, so there was no hope from her ; we had another 
boat on board, but how to get her off into the sea was a 
doubtful thing. However, there was no room to debate, 
for we fancied the ship would break in pieces every minute, 
and some told us she was actually broken already. 

In this distress, the mate of our vessel laid hold of the 
boat, and with the help of the rest of the men they got her 
slung over the ship's side; and getting all into her, let go, 
and committed ourselves, being eleven in number, to God’s 
mercy, and the wild sea ; for though the storm was abated 
considerably, yet the sea went dreadfully high upon the 
shore. 

And now our case was very dismal indeed, for we all 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 31 


plainly that the sea went so high, that the boat conld 
not live, and that we should be inevitably drowned. How- 
ever, ws| committed our souls to God in the most earnest 
manner ; and the wind driving us towards the shore, we 
hastened our destruction with our own hands, pulling as 
well as we could towards land. 

What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether 
steep or shoal, we knew not; the only hope that could 
rationally give us the least shadow of expectation was, if 
we might happen into some bay or gulf, or the mouth of 
some river, where by great chance we might have run our 
boat in, or got under the lee of the land, and perhaps 
made smooth water. But there was nothing of this 
appeared, and as we made nearer and nearer the shore, 
the land looked more frightful than the sea. 

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league 
and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain- 
like, came rolling astern of us, and plainly bade us expect 
the coup de grace. In a word, it took us with such fury, 
that it overset the boat at once ; and separating us, as well 
from the boat as from one another, we were all swallowed 
up in a moment, 

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which 
I felt when I sank into the water; for though I swam 
very well, yet I could not deliver myself from the waves 
so as to draw breath, till that wave having driven me, or 
rather carried me, a vast way on towards the shore, and 
having spent itself, went back, and left me upon the land 
almost dry, but half dead with the water I took in. I had 
so much presence of mind, as well as breath left, that 
seeing myself nearer the mainland than I expected, I got 
upon my feet, and endeavoured to make on towards the 
land as fast as I could, before another wave should return 
and take me up again. But I soon .found it was impossible 
to avoid it ; for I saw the sea come after me as high as a 



32 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


great hill, and as furious as an enemy, which I had ho 
means or strength to contend with. My business was to 
hold my breath, and raise myself upon the waiser, if I 
could ; and so by swimming, to preserve my breathing, and 
pilot myself towards the shore, if possible; my greatest 
concern now being, that the sea, as it would carry me a 
great way towards the shore when it came on, might not 
carry me back again with it when it gave back towards 
the sea. 

The wave that came upon me again, buried me at once 
20 or 30 feet deep in its own body, and I could feel myself 
carried with a mighty force and swiftness towards the 
shore a very great way ; but J held my breath, and assisted 
myself to swim still forward with all my might. I was 
ready to burst with holding my breath, when, as I felt 
myself rising up, so, to my immediate relief, I found my 
head and hands shoot out above the surface of the water ; 
and though it was not two seconds of time that I could 
keep myself so, yet it relieved me greatly, gave me breath 
and new courage. I was covered again wuth w^ater a good 
while, but not so long but I held it out ; and finding the 
water had spent itself and began to return, I struck 
forward against the return of the waves, and felt ground 
again with my feet. I stood still a few moments to re- 
cover breath, and till the water went from me, and then 
took to my heels and ran with what strength I had farther 
towards the shore. But neither would this deliver me 
from the fury of the sea, which came pouring in after me 
again, and twice more I was lifted up by the waves and 
carried forwards as before, the shore being very fiat. 

The last time of these two had well near been fatal to 
me ; for the sea, having hurried me along as before, landed 
me, or rather dashed me, against a piece of a rock, and 
that with such force, as it left me senseless, and indeed 
helpless, as to my owm deliverance ; for the blow taking 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 33 


my side and breast, beat tbe breath as it were quite out of 
my body ; and had it returned again immediately, I must 
have be§n strangled in the water. But I recovered a little 
before the return of the waves, and seeing I should be 
co^iered again with the water, I resolved to hold fast by a 
piece of the rock, and so to hold my breath, if possible, till 
the wave went back. Now as the waves were not so high 
as at first, being near land, I held my hold till the wave 
abated, and then fetched another run, which brought me 
so near the shore, that the next wave, though it went over 
me, yet did not so swallow me up as to carry me away, 
and the next run I took I got to the mainland, where, to 
my great comfort, I clambered up the cliffs of the shore, 
and sat me down upon the grass, free from danger, and 
quite out of the reach of the water. 

I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to look 
up and thank God that my life was saved in a case wherein 
there was some minutes before scarce any room to hope. 

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands, and 
my whole being, as I may say, wrapt up in the contempla- 
tion of my deliverance, reflectmg upon all my comrades 
that were drowned, and that there should not be one soul 
saved but myself ; for, as for them, I never saw them after- 
wards, or any sign of them, except three of their hats, one 
cap, and two shoes that were not fellows. 

After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable 
part of my condition, I began to look round me to see 
what kind of place I was in, and what was next to be 
done, and I soon found my comforts abate, and that, in a 
word, I had a dreadful deliverance ; for I was wet, had no 
clothes to shift me, nor anything either to eat or drink to 
comfort me, neither did I see any prospect before me but 
that of perishing with hunger, or being devoured by wild 
beasts ; and that which was particularly afflicting to me 
was, that I had no weapon either to hunt and kill any 



34 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


creature for my sustenance, or to defend myself agaiast 
any other creature that might desire to kill me for theirs. 
In a word, I had nothing about me but a knife, a J}obacco- 
pipe, and a little tobacco in a box. This was all my pro- 
vision; and this threw me into such terrible agonies of mind, 
that for a while I ran about like a madman. Mght coming 
upon me, I began, with a heavy heart, to consider what 
would be my lot if there were any ravenous beasts in that 
country, seeing at night they always come abroad for 
their prey. 

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that 
time was, to get up into a thick bushy tree like a fir, but 
thorny, which grew near me, and where I resolved to sit 
aU night, and consider the next day what death I should 
die, for as yet I saw no prospect of life. I walked about 
a furlong from the shore, to see if I could find any fresh 
water to drink, which I did, to my great joy ; and having 
drunk, and put a little tobacco in my mouth to prevent 
hunger, I went to the tree, and getting up into it, endea- 
voured to place myself so that if I should sleep I might 
not fall ; and having cut me a short stick, like a truncheon, 
for my defence, I took up my lodging, and having been 
excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as com- 
fortably as, I believe, few could have done in my condition, 
and found myself the most refreshed with it that I think 
I ever was on such an occasion. 

When I awoke it was broad day, the weather clear, and 
the storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as 
before. But that which surprised me most was, that the 
ship was lifted off in the night from the sand where she 
lay, by the swelling of the tide, and was driven up almost 
as far as the rock which I first mentioned, where I 
had been so bruised by dashing against it. This being 
within about a mile from the shore where I was, and the 
ship seeming to stand upright still, I wished myself on 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 35 


boiard, that, at least, I might have some necessary things 
for my use. 

Whgn I came down from the tree I looked about me 
again, and the first thing I found was the boat, wMoh lay 
as jbhe wind and the sea had tossed her up upon the 
land, about two miles on my right hand, I walked as 
far as I could upon the shore to have got to her, but 
found a neck or inlet of water between me and the 
boat, which was about half a mile broad ; so I came back 
for the present, being more intent upon getting at the ship, 
where I hoped to find something for my present subsistence. 

A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and the 
tide ebbed so far out, that I could come within a q^uarter 
of a mile of the ship ; and here I found a fresh renewing 
of my grief, for I saw evidently, that if we had kept on 
board we had been all safe, that is to say, we had all got 
safe on shore, and I had not been so miserable as to be left 
entirely destitute of all comfort and company, as I now 
was. This forced tears from my eyes again ; but as there 
was little relief in that, I resolved, if possible, to get to the 
ship ; so I pulled off my clothes, for the weather was hot 
to extremity, and took to the water. But when I came 
to the ship, my difficulty was still greater to know how to 
get on board ; for as she lay aground, and high out of the 
water, there was nothing within my reach to lay hold of. 
I swam round her twice, and the second time I spied a 
small piece of a rope, which I wondered I did not see at 
first, hang down by the fore-chains so low, as that with 
great difficulty I got hold of it, and by the help of that 
rope got up into the forecastle of the ship. Here I found 
that the ship was bulged, and had a great deal of water in 
her hold, but that she lay so on the side of a bank of hard 
sand, or rather earth, that her stern lay lifted up upon the 
bank, and her head low almost to the water. By this 
means all her quarter was free, and aU that was in that 



36 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


part was dry ; for you may be sure my first work was ®fco 
search and to see what was spoiled and what was free. 
And first I found that all the ship’s provisions we dry 
and untouched by the water ; and being very well disposed 
to eat, I went to the bread-room and filled my pockets 
with biscuit, and ate it as I went about other things, for I 
had no time to lose. I also found some rum in the great 
cabin, of which I took a large dram, and which I had indeed 
need enough of to spirit me for what was before me. Now 
I wanted nothing but a boat, to furnish myself with many 
things which I foresaw would be very necessary to me. 

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to 
be had, and this extremity roused my application. We 
had several spare yards, and two or three large spars of 
wood, and a spare top-mast or two in the ship. I resolved 
to fall to work with these, and flung as many of them 
overboard as I could manage, tying every one with a rope, 
that they might not drive away. When this was done I 
went down the ship’s side, and, j^ulling them to me, I tied 
four of them fast together at both ends as well as I could, 
in the form of a raft ; and laying two or three short pieces 
of plank upon them crossways, I found I could walk upon 
it very well, but that it was not able to bear any great 
weight, the pieces being too light. So I went to work, 
and with the carpenter’s saw I cut a spare top-mast into 
three lengths, and added them to my raft, with a great 
deal of labour and pains ; but the hope of furnishing myself 
with necessaries encouraged me to go beyond what I should 
have been able to have done upon another occasion. 

My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable 
weight. My next care was what to load it with, and how 
to preserve what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea ; 
but I was not long considering this. I first laid all the 
planks or boards upon it that I could get, and having con- 
sidered well what I most wanted, I first got three of the 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 37 


seamen’s chests, which I had broken open, and emptied, 
and lowered them down upon my raft. The first of these 
I filled^with provisions, viz., bread, rice, three Dutch 
cheeses, five pieces of dried goat’s flesh, which we lived 
mutjh upon, and a little remainder of European corn, which 
had been laid by for some fowls which we brought to 
sea with us, but the fowls were killed. There had been 
some barley and wheat together, but, to my great dis- 
appointment, I found afterwards that the rats had eaten 
or spoiled it all As for liquors, I found several cases of 
bottles belonging to our skipper, in which were some 
cordial waters, and, in all, about five or six gallons of rack. 
These I stowed by themselves, there being no need to put 
them into the chest, nor any room for them. 

While I was doing this, I found the tide began to flow, 
though very calm, and I had the mortification to see my 
coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on shore upon 
the sand, swim away ; as for my breeches, which were only 
linen, and open-kneed, I swam on board in them and my 
stockings. However, this put me upon rummaging for 
clothes, of which I found enough, but took no more than 
I wanted for present use ; for I had other things which my 
eye was more upon, as first tools to work with on shore ; 
and it was after long searching that I found out the 
carpenter’s chest, which was indeed a very useful prize to 
me, and much more valuable than a shiploading of gold 
would have been at that time. I got it down to my raft, 
even whole as it was, without losing time to look into it, 
for I knew in general what it contained. 

My next care was for some ammunition and arms; 
there were two very good fowling-pieces in the great cabin, 
and two pistols ; these I secured first, with some powder- 
horns, and a small bag of shot, and two old rusty swords. 
I knew there were three barrels of powder in the ship, but 
knew not where our gunner had stowed them ; but with 




ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 89 


mTicli search I found them, two of them dry and good, the 
third had taken water ; those two I got to my raft with 
the arn^. And now I thought myself pretty well freighted, 
and began to think how I should get to shore with them, 
having neither sail, oar, nor rudder ; and the least capful of 
wind would have overset all my navigation. 

I had three encouragements. 1. A smooth calm sea. 
2. The tide rising and setting in to the shore. 3. What 
little wind there was blew me towards the land. And thus, 
having found two or three broken oars belonging to the boat, 
and besides the tools which were in the chest, I found two 
saws, an axe, and a hammer, and with this cargo I put to 
sea. For a mile or thereabouts my raft went very well, 
only that I found it drive a little distance from the place 
where I had landed before, by which I perceived that 
there was some indraft of the water, and coiisec[uently I 
hoped to find some creek or river there, which I might 
make use of as a port to get to land with my cargo. 

As I imagined, so it was ; there appeared before me a 
little opening of the land, and I found a strong current of 
the tide set into it, so I guided my raft as well as I could 
to keep in the middle of the stream. But here I had like 
to have suffered a second shipwreck, which, if I had, I 
think verily would have broken my heart ; for knowing 
nothing of the coast, my raft ran aground at one end of it 
upon a shoal, and not being aground at the other end, it 
wanted but a little that all my cargo had slipped off to- 
wards that end that was afloat, and so fallen into the water. 
I did my utmost by setting my back against the chests 
to keep them in their places, but could not thrust off 
the raft with aU my strength, neither durst I stir from the 
posture I was in, hut holding up the chests with all my 
might, stood in that manner nearly half-an-hour, in which 
time the rising of the tide brought me a little more upon 
a level ; and a little after, the water still rising, my raft 



40 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


floated again, and I thrust her off with the oar I had ixfto 
the channel, and then driving up higher, I at length found 
myself in the mouth of a little river, with land/>n both 
sides, and a strong current or tide running up. I looked 
on both sides for a proper place to get to shore, for I was 
not willing to be driven too high up the river, hoping in 
time to see some ship at sea, and therefore resolved to 
place myself as near the coast as I could. 

At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the 
creek, to which, with great pain and difficulty, I guided 
my raft, and at last got so near that reaching ground 
with my oar, I could thrust her directly in ; but here I 
had liked to have dipped all my cargo in the sea again ; 
for that shore lying pretty steep, that is to say, sloping, 
there was no place to land but where one end of my float, 
if it ran on shore, would lie so high and the other sink 
lower, as before, that it would endanger my cargo again. 
All that I could do was to wait till the tide was at the 
highest, keeping the raft with my oar like an anchor to 
hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a flat piece of 
ground, which I expected the water would flow over ; and 
so it did. As soon as I found water enough, for my raft 
drew about a foot of water, I thrust her on upon that flat 
piece of ground, and there fastened or moored her by 
sticking my two broken oars into the ground ; one on one 
side near one end, and one on the other side near the other 
end ; and thus I lay till the water ebbed away, and left 
my raft and all my cargo safe on shore. 

My next work was to view the country and seek a 
proper place for my habitation, and where to stow my 
goods to secure them from whatever might happen. 
Where I was, I yet knew not ; whether on the continent, 
or on an island; whether inhabited or not inhabited; 
whether in danger of wild beasts, or not. There was a 
hiU, not above a mile from me, which rose up very steep 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 41 

aid high, and which seemed to overtop some other hills, 
which lay as in a ridge from it, northward. I took out 
one of^the fowling-pieces and one of the pistols, and a 
horn of powder ; and thus armed, I travelled for discovery ^ 
up to the top of that hill, where, after I had with great 
labour and difficulty got to the top, I saw my fate to 
my great affliction, viz., that I was on an island environed 
every way with the sea, no land to be seen, except some 
rocks which lay a great way off, and two small islands less 
than this, which lay about three leagues to the west. 

I found also that the island I was in was barren, and, 
as I saw good reason to believe, uninhabited, except by 
wild beasts, of whom, however, I saw none; yet I saw 
abundance of fowls, but knew not their kinds ; neither, 
when I killed them, could I tell what was fit for food, 
and what not. At my coming back, I shot at a great 
bird which I saw sitting upon a tree on the side of a 
great wood. I believe it was the first gun that had been 
fired there since the creation of the world. I had no 
sooner fired, but from all the parts of the wood there 
arose an innumerable number of fowls of many sorts, 
making a confused screaming, and crying every one accord- 
ing to his usual note ; but not one of them of any kind 
that I knew. As for the creature I killed, I took it to be 
a kind of a hawk, its colour and beak resembling it, but 
had no talons or claws more than common ; its flesh was 
carrion, and fit for nothing. 

Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft, 
and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore, which took 
me up the rest of that day ; and what to do with myself 
at night I knew not, nor indeed where to rest ; for I was 
afraid to lie down on the ground, not knowing but some 
wild beast might devour me, though, as I afterwards found, 
there was really no need for those fears. However, as well 
as I could, I barricaded myself round with the chests and 



42 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

<«r 

boards that I had brought on shore, and made a kind 61 
a hut for that night’s lodging ; as for food, I yet saw not 
which way to supply myself, except that I had se^n two 
or three creatures like hares run out of the wood where 
I shot the fowl. 

I now began to consider that I might yet get a great 
many things out of the ship which would be useful to me, 
and particularly some of the rigging and sails and such 
other things as might come to land ; and I resolred to 
make another voyage on board the vessel, if possible. And 
as I knew that the first storm that blew must necessarily 
break her all in pieces, I resolved to set all other things 
apart till I got everything out of the ship that I could get. 
Then I called a council, that is to say, in my thoughts, 
whether I should take back the raft, but this appeared 
impracticable; so I resolved to go as before, when the 
tide was down ; and I did so, only that I stripped .before 
I went from my hut, having nothing on but a chequered 
shirt and a pair of linen drawers, and a pair of pumps on 
my feet. 

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second 
raft, and having had experience of the first, I neither made 
this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard ; but yet I brought 
away several things very useful to me; 'as, first, in the 
carpenter’s stores I found two or three bags full of nails 
and spikes, a great screw-jack, a dozen or two of hatchets, 
and above all, that most useful thing called a grindstone. 
All these I secured, together with several things belonging 
to the gunner, particularly two or three iron crows, and 
two barrels of musket bullets, seven muskets, and another 
fowling-piece, with some small quantity of powder more ; 
a large bag full of small-shot, and a great roll of sheet 
lead ; but this last was so heavy, I could not hoist it up 
to get it over the ship’s side. Besides these things, I took 
all the men’s clothes that I could find, and a spare fore-top 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 48 

sail, a hammock, and some bedding ; and with this I loaded 
my second raft, and brought them all safe on shore, to 
my veiy great comfort. 

I was under some apprehensions during my absence"* 
fit)m the land, that at least my proTisions might be 
devoured on shore ; but when I came back, I found no 
sign of any visitor, only there sat a creature like a wild 
cat upon one of the chests, which, when I came towards 
it, ran away a little distance, and then stood still. She 
sat very composed and unconcerned, and looked full in 
my face, as if she had a mind to be acquainted with me. 

I presented my gun at her, but as she did not understand 
it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor did she offer 
to stir away; upon which I tossed her a bit of biscuit, 
though, by the way, I was not very free of it, for my store 
was not great. However, I spared her a bit, I say, and 
she went to it, smelled of it, and ate it, and looked for 
more ; but I thanked her, and could spare no more, so she 
marched off. 

Having got my second cargo on shore, though I was 
fain to open the barrels of powder and bring them by 
parcels, for they were too heavy, being large casks, I went 
to work to make me a little tent with the sail and some 
poles which I cut for that purpose ; and into this tent I 
brought everything that I knew would spoil either with 
rain or sun. I piled all the empty chests and casks 
up in a circle round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden 
attempt, either from man or beast. 

When I had done this I blocked up the door of the tent 
with some boards within, and an empty chest set up on 
end without; and spreading one of the beds upon the 
ground, laying my two pistols just at my head, and my 
gun at length by me, I went to bed for the first time, and 
slept very quietly all night, for I was very weary and 
heavy, for the night before I had slept little, and had 



44 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


laboured very hard all day, as well to fetch all those things 
from the ship, as to get them on shore. 

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now th«t ever 
was laid up, I believe, for one man ; but I was not satisfied, 
for while the ship sat upright in that posture, I thoughtT I 
ought to get everything out of her that I could. So every 
day at low water T went on board, and brought away some- 
thing or other ; but, particularly, the third time I went I 
brought away as much of the rigging as I could, as also all 
the small ropes and rope-twine I could get, with a piece 
of spare canvas, which was to mend the sails upon occasion, 
and the barrel of wet gunpo»vder; in a word, I brought 
away all the sails first and last, only that I was fain to 
cut them in pieces, and bring as much at a time as I 
could; for they were no more useful as sails, but as 
mere canvas only. 

But that which comforted me more still was, that at 
last of all, after I had made five or six such voyages as 
these, and thought I had nothing more to expect from the 
ship that was worth my meddling with ; I say, after all 
this, I found a great hogshead of bread, and three large 
runlets of rum or spirits, and a box of sugar, and a barrel 
of fine flour. This was surprising to me, because I had 
given over expecting any more provisions, except what 
was spoilt by the water. I soon emptied the hogshead 
of the bread, and wrapped it up parcel by parcel in pieces 
of the sails, which I cut out; and, in a word, I got all 
safe on shore also. 

The next day I made another voyage. And now, 
having plundered the ship of what was portable and fit 
to hand out, I began with the cables; and cutting the 
great cable into pieces, such as I could move, I got two 
cables and a hawser on shore, with all the iron- work I 
could get; and having cut down the sprit-sail yard, and 
the mizzen yard, and everything I could to make a large 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 45 

raft, I loaded it with, all those heavy goods, and came 
away. But my good luck began now to leave me; for 
this r^t was so unwieldy, and so overladen, that after I 
had entered the little cove where I had landed the rest ^ 
oftmy goods, not being able to guide it so handily as I did 
the other, it overset, and threw me and all my cargo into 
the water. As for myself, it was no great harm, for I was 
near the shore ; but as to my cargo, it was great part of 
it lost, especially the iron, which I expected would have 
been of great use to me. However, when the tide was out 
I got most of the pieces of cable ashore, and some of the 
iron, though with infinite labour; for I was fain to dip 
for it into the water, a work which fatigued me very much. 
After this I went every day on board, and brought away 
what I could get. 

I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had been 
eleven times on board the ship; in which time I had 
brought away all that one pair of hands could well be 
supposed capable to bring, though I believe verily, had the 
calm weather held, I should have brought away the whole 
ship piece by piece. But preparing the twelfth time to 
go on board, I found the wind begiu to rise. However, at 
low water I went on board, and though I thought I had 
rummaged the cabin so effectually that nothing more 
could be found, yet I discovered a locker with drawers in 
it, in one of which I found two or three razors, and one 
pair of large scissors, with some ten or a dozen of good 
knives and forks; in another, I found about thirty-six 
pounds value in money, some European coin, some Brazil, 
some pieces of eight, some gold, and some silver. 

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. ^'0 
drug!” said I aloud, ^‘what art thou good for? Thou 
art not worth to me, no, not the taking off of the ground ; 
one of those knives is worth all this heap. I have 
no manner of use for thee ; remain where thou art, and 



46 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


go to the bottom as a creature whose life is not worth 
saving.” 

However, upon second thoughts, I took it aw£gr ; and 
wrapping all this in a piece of canvas, I began to think 
of making another raft ; but while I was preparing tip’s, 
I found the sky overcast, and the wind began to rise, and 
in a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh gale from the 
shore. It presently occurred to me that it was in vain to 
pretend to make a raft with the wind off shore, and that 
it was my business to be gone before the flood tide 
began, otherwise I might not be able to reach the shore 
at all. Accordingly I let myself down into the water, and 
swam across the channel, which lay between the ship and 
the sands, and even that with difficulty enough, partly 
with the weight of the things I had about me, and partly 
the roughness of the water ; for the wind rose very hastily, 
and before it was quite high water it blew a storm. 

But at length I reached my little tent, where I lay 
with all my wealth about me very secure. It blew very 
hard all that night, and in the morning, when I looked 
out, behold, no more ship was to be seen. I was a little 
surprised, but recovered myself with this satisfactory 
reflection, viz., that I had lost no time, nor abated 
diligence, to get everything out of her that could be useful 
to me, and that indeed there was little left in her that 
I was able to bring away if I had had more time. 

I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of 
anything out of her, except what might drive on shore 
from her, as indeed divers pieces of her afterwards did ; 
but those things were of small use to me. 

My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing 
myself against either savages, if any should appear, or wild 
beasts, if any were in the island ; and I had many thoughts 
of the method how to do this, and what kind of dwelKng 
to make, whether I should make me a cave in the earth, or 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 47 


w tent upon the earth ; and, in short, I resolved upon both, 
the manner and description of which it may not be out 
of place to give an account of. 

I soon found that my present position was not the 
best for my settlement, as it was upon a low marshy 
ground near the sea, and I believed would not be whole- 
some ; and more particularly because there was no fresh 
water near it. So I resolved to find a more healthy and 
more convenient spot of ground. 

I considered several things in my situation, which I 
found would be proper for me. [First, health and fresh 
water, I just now mentioned. Secondly, shelter fronl the 
heat of the sun. Thirdly, security from ravenous creatures, 
whether men or beasts. Fourthly, a view of the sea, that 
if God sent any ship in sight I might not lose any advan- 
tage for my deliverance, of which I was not willing to 
banish all my expectation yet. 

In search of a place proper for this, I found a little 
plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front towards this 
little plain was steep as a house-side, so that nothing could 
come down upon me from the top ; on the side of this rock 
there was a hoUow place, worn a little way in, like the 
entrance or door of a cave ; but there was not really any 
cave, or way into the rock at aU. 

On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place, 
I resolved to pitch my tent. This plain was not above an 
hundred yards broad, and about twice as long, and lay 
like a green before my door, and at the end of it descended 
irregularly every way down into the low grounds by the 
seaside. It was on the IT.N^W. side of the hiU., so that 
I was sheltered from the heat every day, till it came to a 
W. and by S. stm, or thereabouts, which in those countries 
is near the setting. 

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-circle before 
the hollow place, which took in about ten yards in its 




ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 49 


semi-diameter from the rock, and twenty yards in its 
diameter from its beginning and ending. In this half- 
circle I%pitched two rows of strong stakes, driving them 
into the ground till they stood very firm like piles, the 
biggest end being out of the ground about five feet and 
a half, and sharpened on the top. The two rows did not 
stand above six inches from one another. 

Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the 
ship, and laid them in rows one upon another, within the 
circle, between these two rows of stakes, up to the top, 
placing other stakes in the inside leaning against them, 
about two feet and a half high, like a spur to a post ; and 
this fence was so strong, that neither man nor beast could 
get into it, or over it. This cost me a great deal of time 
and labour, especially to cut the piles in the woods, bring 
them to the place, and drive them into the earth. 

The entrance into this place I made to be not by a door, 
but by a short ladder to go over the top ; which ladder, when 
I was in, I lifted over after me, and so I was completely 
fenced in, and fortified, as I thought, from all the world, 
and consequently slept secure in the night, which other- 
wise I could not have done ; though as it appeared after- 
ward, there was no need of aE this caution from the enemies 
that I apprehended danger from. 

Into this fence or fortress, with infinite labour, I carried 
aU my riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores, 
of which you have the account above ; and I made me a 
large tent, which, to preserve me from the rains that in one 
part of the year are very violent there, I made double, viz., 
one smaEer tent within, and one larger tent above it, and 
covered the uppermost with a large tarpaulin, which I had 
saved among the sails. And now I lay no more for a 
while in the bed which I had brought on shore, but in a 
hammock, which was indeed a very good one, and belonged 
to the mate of the ship. 

E 



50 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and every- 
thing that would spoil by the wet; and having thus 
enclosed all my goods, I made up the entrance, wlwh, till 
now, I had left open, and so passed and repassed, as I said, 
by a short ladder. 

When I had done this, I began to work my way into 
the rock ; and bringing all the earth and stones that I dug 
down out through my tent, I laid them up within my 
fence in the nature of a terrace, so that it raised the 
ground within about a foot and a half ; and thus I made 
me a cave just behind my tent, which served like a cellar 
to my house. 

It cost me much labour and many days, before all 
these things were brought to perfection, and therefore I 
must go back to some other things which took up some of 
my thoughts. At the same time it happened, after I had 
laid my scheme for the setting up my tent, and making 
the cave, that a storm of rain falling from a thick dark 
cloud, a sudden flash of lightning happened, and after that 
a great clap of thunder, as is naturally the effect of it. I 
was not so much surprised with the lightning, as I was 
with a thought which darted into my mind as swift as the 
lightning itself. Oh my powder! My very heart sank 
within me when I thought that at one blast all my 
powder might be destroyed, on which, not my defence 
only, but the providing me food, as I thought, entirely 
depended. I was nothing near so anxious about my own 
danger ; though had the powder taken fire, I had never 
known who had hurt me. 

Such an impression did this make upon me, that after 
the storm was over I laid aside all my works, my building, 
and fortifying, and applied myself to make bags and boxes 
to separate the powder, and keep it a little and a little in 
a parcel, in hope that whatever might come it might not 
all take fire at once, and to keej) it so apart, that it should 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 51 


not be possible to make one part fire another. I finished 
this work in about a fortnight, and I think my powder, 
which % all was about 240 pounds' weight, was divided 
in not less than a hundred parcels. As to the barrel that 
had been wet, I did not apprehend any danger from that, 
so I placed it in my new cave, which in my fancy I called 
my kitchen, and the rest I hid up and down in holes 
among the rocks, so that no wet might come to it, marking 
very carefully where I laid it. 

In the interval of time while this was doing, I went 
out once, at least, every day with my gun, as well to 
divert myself, as to see if I could kill anything fit for food, 
and as near as I could to acquaint myself with what the 
island produced. The first time I went out, I presently 
discovered that there were goats in the island, which was 
a great satisfaction to me ; but then it was attended with 
this misfortune to me, viz., that they were so shy, so 
subtle, and so swift of foot, that it was the most difficult 
thing in the world to come at them. But I was not dis- 
couraged at this, not doubting but I might now and then 
shoot one, as it soon happened ; for after I had found their 
haunts a little, I laid wait in this manner for them. I 
observed if they saw me in the valleys, though they were 
upon the rocks, they would run away as in a terrible 
fright ; but if they were feeding in the valleys, and I was 
upon the rocks, they took no notice of me, from whence I 
concluded that, by the position of their optics, their sight 
was so directed downward, that they did not readily see 
objects that were above them. So afterward I took this 
method; I always climbed the rocks first to get above 
them, and then had frequently a fair mark. The first shot 
I made among these creatures I killed a she-goat, which 
had a little kid by her, which she gave suck to and this 
grieved me heartily ; but when the old one feU, the kid 
stood stock still by her till I came and took her up ; and 



52 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

not only so, but when I carried the old one with me upon 
my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to my enclosure ; 
upon which I laid down the dam, and took the kif^ in my 



I HAD ON A GBBAT BHAPBDHSS CAP OP GOAT’B BKIN. 


arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes to have bred it 
up tame ; but it would not eat, so I was forced to kill it, 
and eat it myself. These two supplied me with flesh a 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 53 


great while, and saved my provisions, my bread especially, 
which I spared as much as possibly I could. 

Aft^r I had been there about ten or twelve days, it 
came into my thoughts that I should lose my reckoning 
of* time for want of books and pen and ink, and should 
even forget the Sabbath days from the working days ; but 
to prevent this, I cut it with my knife upon a large post, 
in capital letters ; and making it into a great cross, I set 
it up on the shore where I first landed, viz., '' I came on 
shore here on the 30th of September 1659/' Upon the 
sides of this sq^uare post I cut every day a notch with my 
knife, and every seventh notch was as long again as the 
rest, and every first day of the month as long again as 
that long one ; and thus I kept my calendar, of weekly, 
monthly, and yearly reckoning of time. 

In the next place we are to observe, that among 
the many things which I brought out of the ship in 
the several voyages I made to it, I got several things 
of less value, but not all less useful to me, which 
I omitted setting down before ; as in particular, 
pens, ink, and paper, several parcels in the captain's, 
mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping, three or four 
compasses, some mathematical instruments, dials, per- 
spectives, charts, and books of navigation, all which I 
huddled together, whether I might want them or no. 
Also I found three very good Bibles, which came to me 
in my cargo from England, and which I had packed up 
among my things; some Portuguese books also, and 
among them two or three prayer-books, and several other 
books, all which I carefully secured. And I must not 
forget, that we had in the ship a dog and two cats, of 
whose history I may have occasion to say something 
in its place; for I carried both the cats with me; and 
as for the dog, he jumped out of the ship of himself, 
and swam on shore to me the day after I went on shore 



64 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


witli my first cargo, and was a trusty servant to me many 
years. I wanted nothing that he could fetch me, nor any 
company that he could make up to me ; I only wfiynted to 
have him talk to me, but that he could not do. As I 
observed before, I found pen, ink, and paper, and I 
husbanded them to the utmost; and I shall show that 
while my ink lasted, I kept things very exact ; but after 
that was gone, I could not, for I could not make any ‘ink 
by any means that I could devise. 

And this put me in mind that I wanted many things, 
notwithstanding all that I had amassed together ; and of 
these, ink was one, as were also spade, pickaxe, ‘ and 
shovel, to dig or remove the earth, needles, pins, and 
thread ; as for linen, I soon learned to want that without 
much difficulty. 

This want of tools made every work I did go on 
heavily; and it was near a whole year before I had 
entirely finished my little pale or surrounded habitation. 
The piles or stakes, which were as heavy as 1 could well 
lift, were a long time in cutting and preparing in the 
woods, and more by far in bringing home ; so that I spent 
sometimes two days in cutting and bringing home one of 
those posts, and a third day in driving it into the ground ; 
for which purpose I got a heavy piece of wood at first, but 
at last bethought myself of one of the iron crows, which, 
however, though .1 found it, yet it made driving those 
posts or piles very laborious and tedious work. 

I have already described my habitation, which was a 
tent under the side of a rock, surrounded with a strong 
pale of posts and cables ; but I might now rather call it a 
wall, for I raised a kind of wall up against it of turfs, 
about two feet thick on the outside, and after some time — ■ 
I think it was a year and a half — I raised rafters from it 
leaning to the rock, and thatched or covered it with 
boughs of trees and such things as I could get to keep out 



ADVENTUBES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 55 


the rain, which I found at some times of the year very 
violent. 

I ]^Ye already observed how I brought all my goods 
into this pale, and into the cave which I had made behind 
me. But I must observe, too, that at first this was a 
confused heap of goods, which as they lay in no order, 
so they took up all my place; I had no room to turn 
myself. So I set myself to enlarge my cave farther into 
the earth; for it was a loose sandy rock, which yielded 
easily to the labour I bestowed on it. And so, when I 
found I was pretty safe as to beasts of prey, I worked 
sideways to the right hand into the rock ; and then, turn- 
ing to the right again, worked quite out, and made me a 
door to come out on the outside of my pale or fortification. 
This gave me not only a back-way to my tent and to 
my storehouse, but gave me room to stow my goods. 

And now I began to apply myself to make such 
necessary things as I found I most wanted, as particularly 
a chair and table ; for without these I was not able to 
enjoy the few comforts I had in the world. I could not 
write or eat, or do several things with so much pleasure 
without a table. 

I had never handled a tool in my life ; and yet in 
time, by labour, application, and contrivance, I found at 
last that I wanted nothing but I could have made it, 
especially if I had had tools. However, I made abundance 
of things even without tools, and some with no more tools 
than an adze and a hatchet, which, perhaps, were never 
made that way before, and that with infinite labour. For 
example, if I wanted a board, I had no other way but to 
cut down a tree, set it on an edge before me, and hew it 
fiat on either side with my axe, till I had brought it to be 
thin as a plank, and then cut it smooth with my adze. It 
is true, by this method I could make but one board out of 
a whole tree ; but this I had no remedy for but patience, 



56 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

any more than I had for the prodigious deal of time and 
labour which it took me to make a plank or board. 
But my time or labour was little worth, and so it^was as 
well employed one way as another. 



I BEGAN TO APPLY MYSELP TO MAKE NECESSAEY THINGS. 


However, I made me a table and a chair, as I 
observed above, and this I did out of the short pieces 
of boards that I brought on my raft from the ship. But 
when I had wrought out some boards, I made large 




ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 57 


shelves of the breadth of a foot and a half, one over 
another, all along one side of my cave, to lay all my 
tools, nails, and iron-work; and, in a word, to separate 
everything at large in their places, that I might come 
easily at them. I knocked pieces into the wall of the rock 
to hang my guns and all things that would hang up ; so 
that my cave looked like a general magazine of all 
necessary things ; and I had everything so ready at my 
hand, that it was a great pleasure to me to see aU my 
goods in such order, and especially to find my stock of 
all necessaries so great. 

And now it was that I began to keep a journal of 
every day's employment ; for, indeed, at first, I was in too 
much hurry, and not only hurry as to labour, but in too 
much discomposure of mind; and my journal would have 
been full of many dull things. 

But having got over these things in some measure, 
and having settled my household stuff and habitation, 
made me a table and a chair, and all as handsome about 
me as I could, I began to keep my journal, of which I 
shall here give you the copy (though in it will be told all 
these particulars over again) as long as it lasted; for, 
having no more ink, I was forced to leave it off. 


EXTRACTS FROM THE JOURNAL 

Nov. 4. — This morning I began to order my times of 
work, of going out with my gun, time of sleep, and time of 
diversion, viz., every morning I walked out with my gun 
for two or three hours, if it did not rain ; then employed 
myself to work till about eleven o'clock ; then eat what I 
had to live on; and from twelve to two I lay down to 
sleep, the weather being excessively hot ; and then in the 



58 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

eyening to work again. The working part of this day and 
of the next were wholly employed in making my table ; 
for I was yet but a very sorry workman, though tiime and 
necessity made me a complete natural mechanic soon 
after, as I believe it would do any one else. 

Nov. 5. — This day went abroad with my gun and my 
dog, and killed a wild cat ; her skin pretty soft, but her 
flesh good for nothing. Every creature I killed, I took ojff 
the skins and preserved them. Coming back by the sea- 
shore, I saw many sorts of sea-fowls, which I did not 
understand ; but was surprised, and almost frightened, with 
two or three seals, which, while I was gazing at, not well 
knowing what they were, got into the sea, and escaped me 
for that time. 

Nov. 6. — After my morning walk I went to work with 
my table again, and finished it, though not to my liking ; 
nor was it long before I learned to mend it. 

Nov. 7. — Now it began to be settled fair weather. The 
7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th (for the 11th was 
Sunday) I took wholly up to make me a chair, and with 
much ado, brought it to a tolerable shape, but never to 
please me ; and even in the making, I pulled it in pieces 
several times. 

Nov. 17. — This day I began to dig behind my tent into 
the rock, to make room for my farther conveniency. Note, 
three things I wanted exceedingly for this work, viz., a 
pick-axe, a shovel, and a wheelbarrow or basket; so I 
desisted from my work, and began to consider how to 
supply that want, and make me some tools. As for a pick- 
axe, I made use of the iron crows, which were proper 
enough, though heavy ; but the next thing was a shovel or 
spade. This was so absolutely necessary, that indeed I 
could do nothing effectually without it ; but what kind of 
one to make, I knew not. 

Nov. 18. — The next day, in searching the woods, I 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 59 


found a tree of tliat wood, or like it, which in the Brazils 
they call the iron- tree, for its exceeding hardness ; of this, 
with gi^at labour, and almost spoiling my axe, I cut a 
piece, and brought it home, too, with difficulty enough, for 
it Was exceeding heavy. 

The excessive hardness of the wood, and having no 
other way, made me a long while upon this machine, for 
I worked it effectually, by little and little, into the form 
of a shovel or spade, the handle exactly shaped like ours 
in England, only that the broad part having no iron shod 
upon it at bottom, it would not last me so long. 

I still wanted a basket or a wheelbarrow. A basket I 
could not make by any means, having no such things as 
twigs that would bend to make wicker ware, at least none 
yet found out. And as to a wheelbarrow, I fancied I 
could make all but the wheel, but that I had no notion of, 
neither did I know how to go about it ; besides, I had no 
possible way to make the iron gudgeons for the spindle or 
axis of the wheel to run in, so I gave it over ; and so for 
carrying away the earth which I dug out of the cave, I 
made me a thing like a hod which the labourers carry 
mortar in, when they serve the bricklayers. 

Nov, 23. — My other work having now stood still 
because of my making these tools, when they were 
finished I went on, and working every day, as my strength 
and time allowed, I spent eighteen days entirely in widen- 
ing and deepening my cave, that it might hold my goods 
commodiously. 

Note : During all this time I worked to make this room 
or cave spacious enough to accommodate me as a ware- 
house or magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room, and a cellar ; 
as for my lodging, I kept to the tent, except that some- 
times in the wet season of the year it rained so hard, that 
I could not keep myself dry, which caused me afterwards 
to cover all my place within my pale with long poles, in 



60 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

tke form of rafters, leaning against the rock, and load them 
with flags and large leaYes of trees, like a thatch. 

December 10. — I began now to think my cave^or vault 
finished, when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too 
large) a great quantity of earth fell down from the top "and 
one side, so much, that, in short, it frightened me, and not 
without reason too ; for if I had been under it, I had never 
wanted a gravedigger. Upon this disaster I had a great 
deal of work to do over again ; for I had the loose earth to 
carry out, and, which was of more importance, I had the 
ceiling to prop up so that I might be sure no more would 
come down, 

Dec. 11. — This day I went to work with it accordingly, 
and got two shores or posts pitched upright to the top, 
with two pieces of boards across over each post. This I 
finished the next day; and setting more posts up with 
boards, in about a week more I had the roof secured ; and 
the posts standing in rows served me for partitions to 
.part of my house. 

Dec. 17. — ^From this day to the twentieth I placed 
shelves, and knocked up nails on the posts to hang every- 
thing up that could be hung up ; and now I began to be 
in some order within doors. 

Dec. 20. — Now I carried everything into the cave, and 
began to furnish my house, and set up some pieces of 
boards, like a dresser, to order my victuals upon; but 
boards began to be very scarce with me ; also I made me 
another table. 

Dec. 27. — Killed a young goat, and lamed another, so 
that I caught it, and led it home in a string. When I 
had it home, I bound and splintered up its leg, which was 
broken. I took such care of it, that it lived, and the leg 
grew well and as strong as ever ; but by my nursing it so 
long it grew tame, and fed upon the little green at my 
door, and would not go away. This was the first time 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 61 


tliat I entertained a thought of breeding up some tame 
creatures, that I might have food when my powder and 
shot wer^ all spent. 

January 1.— Very hot still, but I went abroad early 
and'* late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the 
day. This evening, going farther into the valleys which 
lay towards the centre of the island, I found there was 
plenty of goats, though exceeding shy, and hard to come 
at. However, I resolved to try if I could not bring my 
dog to hunt them down. 

Jan, 2. — Accordingly, the next day, I went out with 
my dog, and set him upon the goats ; but I was mistaken, 
for they all faced about upon the dog ; and he knew his 
danger too well, for he would not go near them. 

Jan, 3. — I began my fence or wall ; which, being still 
jealous of my being attacked by somebody, I resolved to 
make very thick and strong. 

All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering 
me many days, nay, sometimes weeks together; but I 
thought I should never be perfectly secure till this wall 
was finished. And it was scarce credible what inexpres- 
sible labour everything was done with, especially the bring- 
ing piles out of the woods, and driving them into the ground; 
for I made them much bigger than I need to have done. 

When this wall was finished, and the outside double- 
fenced with a turf-wall raised up close to it, I persuaded 
myself that if any people were to come on shore there, 
they would not perceive anything like a habitation ; and 
it was very well I did so, as may be observed hereafter 
upon a very remarkable occasion. 

During this time, I made my rounds in the woods for 
game every day, when the rain admitted me, and made 
freq^uent discoveries in these walks of something or other 
to my advantage; particularly I found a kind of wild 
pigeons, who built, not as wood pigeons in a tree, but 



6S ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

rather as house pigeons, in the holes of the rocks. And 
taking some young ones, I endeavoured to breed them up 
tame, and did so ; but when they grew older they flew 
away, which, perhaps, was at first for want of feeding them, 
for I had nothing to give them. However, I frequenl^ly 
found their nests, and got tlieir young ones, which were 
very good meat. 

And now in the managing my household affairs I found 
myself wanting in many things, which I thought at first it 
was impossible for me to make, as indeed, as to some of 
them, it was. Tor instance, I could never make a cask to 
be hooped; I had a small runlet or two, as I observed 
before, but I could never arrive to the capacity of making 
one by them, though I spent many weeks about it. I 
could neither put in the heads, or joint the staves so true 
to one another, as to make them hold water ; so I gave 
that over also. 

In the next place, I was at a great loss for candle ; so 
that as soon as ever it was dark, which was generally by 
seven o’clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I remembered 
the lump of beeswax with which I made candles in my 
African adventure, but I had none of that now. The only 
remedy I had was, that when I had killed a goat I saved 
the tallow, and with a little dish made of clay, which I 
baked in the sun, to which I added a wick of some oakum, 
I made me a lamp ; and this gave me light, though not a 
clear steady light like a candle. 

In the middle of all my labours it happened, that 
rummaging my things,! found a little bag, which, as I hinted 
before, had been filled with com for the feeding of poultry, 
not for this voyage, but before, as I suppose, when the ship 
came from Lisbon. What little remained of the corn that 
had been in the bag was all devoured with the rats, and I 
saw nothing in the bag but husks and dust ; and being 
wining to have the bag for some other use, I think it was 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 69 


to put powder in, when I divided it for fear of the lightning, 
or some such use, I shook the husks of corn out of it on 
one side (tf my fortification, under the rock. It was a little 
before the great rains, just now mentioned, that I threw 
this'^stuff away, taking no notice of anything, and not so 
much as remembering that I had thrown anything there ; 
when, about a month after, or thereabout, I saw some few 
stalks of something green shooting out of the ground, 
which I fancied might be some plant I had not seen ; but 
I was surprised, and perfectly astonished, when, after a 
Kttle longer time, I saw about ten or twelve ears come 
out, which were perfect green barley of the same kind as 
our European, nay, as our English barley. 

I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure, 
in their season, which was about the end of June ; and 
laying up every grain, I resolved to sow them all again, 
hoping in time to have some quantity sufficient to supply 
me with bread. But it was not till the fourth year that I 
could allow myself the least grain of this corn to eat, and 
even then but sparingly, as I shall say afterwards in its 
order. I lost aU that I sowed the first season, by not 
observing the proper time, for I sowed it just before the 
dry season, so that it never came up at all, at least not as 
it would have done ; of which in its place. 

Besides this barley, there were twenty or thirty 
stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same care, and 
whose use was of the same kind, or to the same pur- 
pose, viz., to make me bread, or rather food ; for I found 
ways to cook it up without baking, though I did that also 
after some time. But to return to my journal. 

I worked hard these three or four months to get my 
wall done ; and on the 14th of April I closed it up, con- 
triving to go into it, not by a door, but over the wall by 
a ladder, that there might be no sign in the outside of my 
habitation. 



64 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


April 16. — I finished the ladder, so I went np with the 
ladder to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and let 
it down on the inside. This was a complete enclosure to 
me; for within I had room enough, and nothing could 
come at me from without, unless it could first mount ®my 
wall. 

The very next day after this wall was finished, I 
almost had all my labour overthrown at once, and myself 
killed. The case was thus : As I was busy in the inside of 
it, behind my tent, just in the entrance into my cave, I was 
terribly frightened with a most dreadful surprising thing 
indeed ; for all on a sudden I found the earth come crumb- 
ling down from the roof of my cave, and from the edge of 
the hill over my head, and two of the posts I had set up 
in the cave cracked in a frightful manner. I was heartily 
scared, but thought nothing of what was really the cause, 
only thinking that the top of my cave was falling in, as 
some of it had done before ; and for fear I should be buried 
in it, I ran forward to my ladder ; and not thinking myself 
safe there neither, I got over my wall for fear of the pieces 
of the hill which I expected might roll down upon me. I 
was no sooner stepped down upon the firm ground, but I 
plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake ; for the ground 
I stood on shook three times at about eight minutes' dis- 
tance, with three such shocks, as would have overturned 
the strongest building that could be supposed to have 
stood on the earth ; and a great piece of the top of a rock, 
which stood about half a mile from me next the sea, fell 
down with such a terrible noise, as I never heard in all my 
life. I perceived also the very sea was put into violent 
motion by it and I believe the shocks were stronger under 
the water than on the island. 

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for 
some time, I began to take courage ; and yet I had not 
heart ex^HIl^ to go over my wall again, for fear of being 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 65 


buried alive, but sat still upon the ground, greatly cast 
down and disconsolate, not knowing what to do. 

While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow 
cloudy, as if it would rain. Soon after that the wind rose 
by,little and little, so that in less than half-an-hour it blew 
a most dreadful hurricane. The sea was all on a sudden 
covered over with foam and froth ; the shore was covered 
with the breach of the water ; the trees were torn up by 
the roots ; and a terrible storm it was. This held about 
three hours, and then began to abate ; and in two hours 
more it was stark calm, and began to rain very hard. 

I was forced to go into my cave, though very much 
afraid and uneasy, for fear it should fall on my head. 

This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz., to cut 
a hole through my new fortification, like a sink, to let the 
water go out, which would else have drowned my cave. 
After I had been in my cave some time, and found no 
more shocks of the earthquake follow, I began to be 
more composed. And now to support my spirits, which 
indeed wanted it very much, I went to my little store, and 
took a small sup of rum, which, however, I did then, and 
always, very sparingly, knowing I could have no more 
when that was gone. 

It continued raining all that night and great part of 
the next day, so that I could not stir abroad ; but my mind 
being more composed, I began to think of what I had best 
do, concluding that if the island was subject to these earth- 
quakes, there would be no living for me in a cave, but I 
must consider of building me some little hnt in an open 
place, which I might surround with a wall, as I had done 
here, and so make myself secure from wild beasts or men ; 
but concluded, if I stayed where I was, that I should 
certainly, one time or other, be buried alive. 

With these thoughts I resolved to remove my tent from 
the place where it stood, which was just under the hanging 



66 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


precipice of the hiU, and which, if it should be shaken 
again, would certainly fall upon my tent ; and I spent the 
two next days, being the 19th and 20th of April, in con» 
triving where and how to remove my habitation. ^ 

The fear of being swallowed up alive made me tha^t I 
never slept in q^uiet ; and yet the apprehension of lying 
abroad without any fence was almost equal to it. But 
still, when I looked about and saw how everything was 
put in order, how pleasantly concealed I was, and how safe 
from danger, it made me very loth to remove. 

In the meantime it occurred to me that it would require 
a vast deal of time for me to do this, and that I must be 
contented to run the venture where I was, till I had formed 
a camp for myself, and had secured it so as to remove to 
it. So with this resolution I composed myself for a time, 
and resolved that I would go to work with all speed to 
build me a wall with piles and cables, etc., in a circle as 
before, and set my tent up in it when it was finished, but 
that I would venture to stay where I was till it was 
finished, and fit to remove to. This was the 21st. 

April 22, — The next morning I began to consider 
means to put this resolve in “execution ; but I was at a 
great loss about my tools. I had three large axes, and 
abundance of hatchets (for we carried the hatchets for traffic 
with the Indians), but with much chopping and cutting 
knotty hard wood, they were all full of notches and dull ; 
and though I had a grindstone, I could not turn it and grind 
my tools too. This cost me as much thought as a states- 
man would have bestowed upon a grand point of politics, 
or a judge upon the life and death of a man. At length I 
contrived a wheel with a string, to turn it with my foot, 
that I might have both my hands at liberty. Note, I had 
never seen any such thing in England, or at least not to 
take notice how it was done, though since I have observed 
it is very common there ; besides that, my grindstone was 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 67 


very large and heavy. This machine cost me a Ml week's 
work to bring it to perfection. 

April 28, 29. — These two whole days I took up in 
grinding my tools, my machine for turning my grindstone 
performing very well. 

May 1. — ^In the morning, looking towards the seaside, 
the tide being low, I saw something lie on the shore bigger 
than ordinary, and it looked like a cask. When I came to 
it, I found a small barrel, and two or three pieces of the 
wreck of the ship, which were driven on shore by the late 
hurricane ; and looking towards the wreck itself, I thought 
it seemed to lie higher out of the water than it used to do. 
I examined the barrel which was driven on shore, and soon 
found it was a barrel of gunpowder ; but it had taken water, 
and the powder was caked as hard as a stone. However, 
I rolled it farther on shore for the present, and went on 
upon the sands as near as I could to the wreck of the ship 
to look for more. 

When I came down to the ship I found it strangely 
removed. The forecastle, which lay before buried in sand, 
was heaved up at least six feet ; and the stern, which was 
broken to pieces, and parted from the rest by the force of 
the sea soon after I had left rummaging her, was tossed, 
as it were, up, and cast on one side, and the sand was 
thrown so high on that side next her stern, that whereas 
there was a great place of water before, so that I could not 
come within a quarter of a mile of the wreck without 
swimming, I could now walk quite up to her when the 
tide was out. I was surprised with this at first, but soon 
concluded it must be done by an earthquake. And as by 
this violence the ship was more broken open than formerly, 
BO many things came daily on shore, which the sea had 
loosened, and which the winds and water rolled by degrees 
to the land. 

This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of 



68 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


removing my habitation; and I busied myself mightily, 
that day especially, in searching whether I could make 
any way into the ship. But I found nothing was to be 
expected of that kind, for all the inside of the ship was 
choked up with sand. However, as I had learned '^not 
to despair of anything, I resolved to pull everything to 
pieces that I could of the ship, concluding that every- 
thing I could get from her would be of some use or other 
to me. 

May 3-17. — Went every day to the wreck and got a 
great deal of pieces of timber, and boards, or plank, and 
two or three hundredweight of iron. 

May 24. — ^Every day to this day I worked on the 
wreck, and with hard labour I loosened some things so 
much with the crow, that at the first high tide several 
casks floated out, and two of the seamen^s chests. But 
the wind blowing from the shore, nothing came to land 
that day but pieces of timber, and a hogshead, which had 
some pork in it, but the salt water and the sand had 
spoiled it. 

I continued this work every day to the 15th of June, 
except the time necessary to get food, which I always 
appointed, during this part of my employment, to be when 
the tide was up, that I might be ready when it was ebbed 
out. And by this time I had gotten timber, and plank, 
and ironwork enough to have built a good boat, if I had 
known how; and also, I got at several times, and in 
several pieces, near one hundredweight of the sheet lead. 

June 16. — Going down to the seaside, I found a large 
tortoise, or turtle. This was the first I had seen, which it 
seems was only my misfortune, not any defect of the 
place, or scarcity ; for had I happened to be on the other 
side of the island, I might have had hundreds of them 
every day, as I found afterwards. 

June 17 I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in her 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 69 


three-score eggs ; and her flesh was to me, at that time, the 
most savoury and pleasant that ever I tasted in my life, 
having had no flesh, but of goats and fowls, since I landed 
in this horrid place. 

.June 18 — Earned all day, and I stayed within. I 
thought at this time the rain felt cold, and I was some- 
thing chilly, which I knew was not usual in that latitude. 

June 25. — ^An ague very violent ; the fit held me seven 
hours ; cold fit, and hot with faint sweats after it. 

June 26. — Better ; and having no victuals to eat, took 
my gun, but found myself very weak. However, I killed 
a she-goat, and with much diflBculty got it home, and 
broiled some of it which I ate. I would fain have stewed 
it, and made some broth, but had no pot. 

June 27. — The ague again so violent that I lay abed all 
day, and could neither eat nor drink. I was ready to perish 
for thirst, but I was so weak that I had not strength to 
stand up, or to get myself any water to drink, till the fit 
wearing off, I fell asleep, and did not wake till far in the 
night. When I awoke, I found myself much refreshed, 
but weak, and exceeding thirsty. However, as I had no 
water in my whole habitation, I was forced to lie till 
morning, and went to sleep again. 

June 28. — Having been somewhat refreshed with the 
sleep I had had, and the fit being entirely off, I got up ; 
I considered that the fit of the ague would return again 
the next day, and now was my time to get something to 
refresh and support myself when I should be ill. The 
first thing I did I filled a large square case-bottle with 
water, and set it upon my table in reach of my bed ; and 
to take off the chilly or aguish disposition of the water, I 
put about a quarter of a pint of rum into it and mixed 
them together. Then I got me a piece of the goafs flesh, 
and broiled it on the coals, but could eat very little. I 
walked about, but was very weak, and withal very sad and 



70 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

heavy-hearted in the sense of my miserable condition, 
dreading the return of my distemper the next day. At 
night I made my supper of three of the turtle’s eggs, 
which I roasted in the ashes, and ate in the shell ; and 
this was the first bit of meat I had ever asked God’s bless- 
ing to, even as I could remember, in my whole life. 

After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found myself so 
weak, that I could hardly carry the gun (for I never went 
out without that); so I went but a little way, and sat 
down upon the ground, looking out upon the sea, which 
was just before me, and very calm and smooth. I fell 
into a sound sleep, and awoke no more, till, by the sun, it 
must necessarily be near throe o’clock in the afternoon the 
next day. 

When I awoke I found myself exceedingly refreshed, 
and my spirits lively and cheerful. When I got up, I was 
stronger than I was the day before, and my stomach better, 
for 1 was hungry ; and, in short, I had no fit the next day, 
but continued much altered for the better. This was 
the 29th. 

The 30th was my well day, of course, and I went 
abroad with my gun, but did not care to travel too far. I 
killed a sea-fowl or two, something like a brant-goose, and 
brought them home, but was not very forward to eat them ; 
so I ate some more of the turtle’s eggs, which were very 
good. However, I was not so well the next day, which 
was the first of July, as I hoped I should have been; for 
I had a little spice of the cold fit, but it was not much. 

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly employea 
in walking about with my gun in my hand, a little and a 
little at a time, as a man that was gath^ing up his strength 
after a fit of sickness ; for it is hardly to be imagined how 
low I was, and to what weakness I was reduced. 

It was the 15th of July that I began to take a more 
particular survey of the island itself. I went up the creek 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. Il 


first, where, as I hinted, I brought mj rafts on shore. I 
found, after I came about two miles up, that the tide did 
not flow^ny higher, and that it was ho more than a little 
brook of running water, and very fresh and good ; but this 
being the dry season, there was hardly any water in some 
parts of it, at least, not enough to run in any stream, so 
as it could be perceived. 

On the bank of this brook I found many pleasant 
savannas or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with 
grass ; and on the rising parts of them, nest to the higher 
grounds, where the water, as might be supposed, never 
overflowed, I found a great deal of tobacco, green, and 
growing to a great and very strong stalk. There were 
divers other plants, which I had no notion of, or under- 
standing about, and might perhaps have virtues of their 
own which I could not find out. 

I searched for the cassava root, which the Indians, in 
all that climate, make their bread of, but I could find 
none. I saw large plants of aloes, but did not then under- 
stand them. I saw several sugar-canes, but wild, and, for 
want of cultivation, imperfect. I contented myself with 
these discoveries for this time, and came back, musing 
with myself what course I might take to know the virtue 
and goodness of any of the fruits or plants which I should 
discover ; but could bring it to no conclusion ; for, in short, 
I had made so little observation while I was in the Brazils, 
that I knew little of the plants in the field, at least very 
little that might serve me to any purpose now in my distress. 

The next day, the 16 th, I went up the same way again ; 
and after going something farther than I had gone the day 
before, I found the brook and the savannas began to cease, 
and the country became more woody than before. In this 
part I found different fruits, and particularly I found 
melons upon the ground in great abundance, and grapes 
upon the trees. The vines had spread indeed over the 



7^ ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.. 


trees, and the clusters of grapes were just now in their 
prime, very ripe and rich. Tliis was a surprising discovery, 
and I was exceeding" glad of them ; but I was wsi^cned by 
my experience to eat sparingly of them, remembering that 
when I was ashore in Barbary the eating of grapes killed 
several of our Englishmen, who were slaves there, by throw- 
ing them into fluxes and fevers. But I found an excellent 
use for these grapes ; and that was, to cure or dry them in 
the sun, and keep them as dried grapes or raisins are kept, 
which I thought would be, as indeed they were, as whole- 
some as agreeable to eat, when no grapes might be had. 

I spent all that evening there, and went not back to 
my habitation; which, by the way, was the first night, 
as I might say, I had lain from home. In the night, I 
took my first contrivance, and got up into a tree, where 
I slept well ; and the next morning proceeded upon my 
discovery, travelling near four miles, as I might judge by 
the length of the valley, keeping still due north, with a 
ridge of hills on the south and north side of me. 

At the end of this march I came to an opening, where 
the country seemed to descend to the west ; and a little 
spring of fresh water, which issued out of the side of the 
hill by me, ran the other way, that is, due east. The 
country appeared so fresh, so green, so flourishing, every- 
thing being in a constant verdure or flourish of spring, 
that it looked like a planted garden. 

I descended a little on the side of that delicious vale, 
surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure, though mixed 
with ihy other afflicting thoughts, to think that this was 
aU my own ; that I was king and lord of all this country 
indefeasibly, and had a right of possession ; and, if I could 
convey it, I might have it in inheritance as completely as 
any lord of a manor in England. I saw here abundance 
of cocoa trees, orange, and lemon, and citron trees ; but 
all wild, and very few bearing any fruit, at least not then. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 73 


However, the green limes that I gathered were not only 
pleasant to eat, but very wholesome ; and I mixed their 
juice afterwards with water, which made it very whole- 
some, and very cool and refreshing. 

found now I had business enough to gather and carry 
home ; and I resolved to lay up a store, as well of grapes 
as limes and lemons to furnish myself for the wet season, 
which I knew was approaching. 

In order to this, I gathered a great heap of grapes in 
one place, and a lesser heap in another place, and a great 
parcel of limes and lemons in another place. Taking 
a few of each with me, I travelled homeward and resolved 
to come again, and bring a bag or sack, or what I could 
make, to carry the rest home. 

Accordingly, having spent three days in this journey, 
I came home (so I must now call my tent and my cave) ; 
but before I got thither, the grapes were spoiled; the 
richness of the fruits, and the weight of the juice, having 
broken them and bruised them ; they were good for little 
or nothing : as to the limes, they were good, but I could 
bring but a few. 

The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having 
made me two small bags to bring home my harvest ; but 
I was surprised, when, coming to my heap of grapes, which 
were so rich and fine when I gathered them, I found them 
all spread about, trod to pieces, and dragged about, some 
here, some there, and abundance eaten and devoured. By 
this I concluded there were some wild creatures thereabouts, 
which had done this ; but what they were, I knew not. 

However, as I found that there was no laying them up 
in heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack, but that 
one way they would be destroyed, and the other way they 
would be crushed with their own weight, I took another 
course ; for I gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and 
hung them up upon the out-branches of the trees, that 



74 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


they might cure and dry in the snn ; and as for the limes and 
lemons, I carried as many back as I could well stand under. 

When I came home from this journey, I contemplated 
with great pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley, and the 
pleasantness of the situation; the security from stormi^on 
that side the water and the wood ; and concluded that I 
had pitched upon a place to fix my abode, which was by 
far the worst part of the country. Upon the whole, I 
began to consider of removing my habitation, and to look 
out for a place equally safe as where I now was situate, 
if possible, in that pleasant fruitful part of the island. 

I was so enamoured of this place, that I spent much 
of my time there for the whole remaining part of the 
month of July; and though, upon second thoughts, I 
resolved, as above, not to remove, yet I built me a little 
kind of a bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a 
strong fence, being a double hedge as high as I could reach, 
well staked, and filled between with brushwood. And here 
I lay very secure, sometimes two or three nights together, 
always going over it with a ladder, as before ; so that I 
fancied now I had my country house and my sea-coast house, 
and this work took me up to the beginning of August. 

I had but newly finished my fence, and began to enjoy 
my labour, when the rains came on, and made me stick 
close to my first habitation ; for though I had made me 
a tent like the other, with a piece of a sail, and spread it 
very well, yet I had not the shelter of a hill to keep me 
from storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat into when 
the rains were extraordinary. 

About the beginning of August T had finished my 
bower, and began to enjoy , myself. The 3rd of August, 
I found the grapes I had hung up were perfectly dried, 
and indeed were excellent good raisins of the sun ; so I 
began to take them down from the trees. And it was 
very happy that I did so, for the rains which followed 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 75 


would have spoiled them, and I should have lost the best 
part of my winter food ; for I had above two hundred large 
bunches ^of them. hTo sooner had I taken them all down, 
and carried most of them home to my cave, but it began 
to rain ; and from thence, which was the 14th of August, 
it rained, more or less, every day till the middle of 
October, and sometimes so violently, that I could not stir 
out of my cave for several days. 

In this season, I was much surprised with the increase 
of my family. I had been concerned for the loss of one 
of my cats, which ran away from me, or, as I thought, had 
been dead, and I heard no more tale or tidings of her, till, 
to my astonishment, she came home about the end of 
August with three kittens. But from these three cats 
I afterwards came to be so pestered with cats, that I was 
forced to kill them like vermin, or wild beasts, and to 
drive them from my house as much as possible. 

From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain, 
so that I could not stir, and was now very careful not to 
be much wet. In this confinement, I began to be straitened 
for food ; but venturing out twice, I one day kiUed a goat, 
and the last day, which was the 26th, found a very large 
tortoise, which was a treat to me, and my food was regu- 
lated thus : I ate a bunch of raisins for my breakfast, a 
piece of the goat's flesh, or of the turtle, for my dinner, 
broiled, for, to my great misfortune, I had no vessel to 
boil or stew anything; and two or three of the turtle's 
eggs for my supper. 

During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I 
worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave, and 
by degrees worked it on towards one side, till I came to 
the outside of the hill, and made a door, or way out, which 
came beyond my fence or wall; and so I came in and out 
this way. But I was not perfectly easy at lying so open ; 
for as I had managed myself before, I was in a perfect 



76 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


enclosure ; whereas now, I thought I lay exposed, and open 
for anything to come in upon me ; and yet I could not 
perceive that there was any living thing to fear, the biggest 
creature that I had yet seen upon the island being a goat. 

Sept, 30. — I was now come to the unhappy anniversary 
of my landing. I cast up the notches on my post, and 
found I had been on shore three hundred and sixty-five 
days. I kept this day as a solemn fast, setting it apart to 
religious exercise. 

The rainy season and the dry season began now to 
appear regular to me, and I learned to divide them so as 
to provide for them accordingly ; but I bought all my ex- 
perience before I had it, and this I am going to relate was 
one of the most discouraging experiments that I made at 
all. I have mentioned that I had saved the few ears of 
barley and rice, which I had so surprisingly found spring 
up, as I thought, of themselves, and believe there were 
about thirty stalks of rice and about twenty of barley ; and 
now I thought it a proper time to sow it after the rains, 
the sun being in its southern position, going from me. 

Accordingly I dug up a piece of ground as well as I 
could with my wooden spade, and dividing it into two 
parts, I sowed my grain ; but as I was sowing, it casually 
occurred to my thoughts that I would not sow it all at " 
first, because I did not know when was the proper time 
for it, so I sowed about two-thirds of the seed, leaving 
about a handful of each. 

It was a great comfort to me afterwards that I did so, 
for not one grain of that I sowed this time came to any- 
thing, for the dry months following, the earth having had 
no rain after the seed was sown, it had no moisture to 
assist its growth, and never came up at all till the wet 
season had come again, and then it grew as if it had been 
but newly sown. 

Fmding my first seed did not grow, which I easily 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 77 


imagined was by the drought, I sought for a moister piece 
of ground to make another trial in, and I dug up a piece 
of grouijd near my new bower, and sowed the rest of my 
seed in February, a little before the vernal equinox. And 
this having the rainy months of March and April to water 
it, sprung up very pleasantly, and yielded a very good 
crop ; but having part of the seed left only, and not daring 
to sow all that I had, I had but a small quantity at last, 
my whole crop not amounting to above half a peck of each 
kind. But by this experiment I was made master of my 
business, and knew exactly when the proper season was to 
sow, and that I might expect two seed-times and two 
harvests every year. 

While this corn was growing, I made a little discovery 
which was of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains 
were over, and the weather began to settle, which was 
about the month of ITovember, I made a visit up the country 
to my bower, where, though I had not been for some 
months, yet I found all things just as I left them. The 
circle or double hedge that I had made was not only firm 
and entire, but the stakes which I had cut out of some 
trees that grew thereabouts were all shot out, and grown 
with long branches, as much as a willow-tree usually 
shoots the first year after lopping its head. I could not 
tell what tree to call it that these stakes were cut from. 
I was surprised, and yet very well pleased to see the 
young trees grow, and I pruned them, and led them up to 
grow as much alike as I could. And it is scarce credible 
how beautiful a figure they grew into in three years ; so 
that though the hedge made a circle of about twenty-five 
yards in diameter, yet the trees, for such I might now call 
them, soon covered it, and it was a complete shade, 
sufficient to lodge under all the dry season. 

This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and 
make me a hedge like this, in a semicircle round my wall 



78 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

/ 

(I mean that of my first dwelling), wMch I did; and 
placing the trees or stakes in a double row, at about eight 
yards’ distance from my first fence, they grew presently, 
and were at first a fine cover to my habitation, and afterward 
served for a defence also, as I shall observe in its orders 

I found now that the seasons of the year might gene- 
rally be divided, not into summer and winter, as in Europe, 
but into the rainy seasons and the dry seasons. After I 
had found by experience the ill consequence of being 
abroad in the rain, I took care to furnish myseh’ with pro- 
visions beforehand, that I might not be obliged to go out ; 
and I sat within doors as much as possible during the 
wet months. 

In this time I found much employment, and very suit- 
able also to the time, for I found great occasion of many 
things which I had no way to furnish myself with but by 
hard labour and constant application ; particularly, I tried 
many ways to make myself a basket ; but all the twigs I 
could get for the purpose proved so brittle, that they would 
do nothing. It proved of excellent advantage to me now, 
that when I was a boy I used to take a great delight in 
standing at a basket-maker’s in the town where my father 
lived, to see them make their wicker-ware ; and being, as 
boys usually are, very ofidcious to help, and a great observer 
of the manner how they worked those things, and some- 
times lending a hand, I had by this means full knowledge 
of the methods of it, that I wanted nothing but the 
materials ; when it came into my mind that the twigs of 
that tree from whence I cut my stakes might possibly be 
as tough as the sallows, and willows, and osiers in England, 
and I resolved to try. 

Accordingly, the next day, I went to my country house, 
as I called it; and cutting some of the smaller twigs, I 
found them to my purpose as much as I could deshe; 
whereupon I came the next time prepared with a hatchet 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 79 


to cut down a quantity, whicli I soon found, for there was 
great plenty of them. These I set up to dry within my 
circle or hedge, and when they were fit for use, I carried 
them to my cave ; and here during the next season I em- 
ployed myself in making, as well as I could, a great many 
baskets, both to carry earth, or to carry or lay up anything 
as I had occasion. Though I did not finish them very 
handsomely, yet I made them sufficiently serviceable for 
my purpose. And thus, afterwards, I took care never to 
be without them ; and as my wicker-ware decayed, I made 
more, especially I made strong deep baskets to place my 
corn in, instead of sacks, when I should come to have any 
quantity of it. 

Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a world 
of time about it, I bestirred myself to see, if possible, how 
to supply two wants. I had no vessels to hold anything 
that was liquid, except two runlets, which were almost 
full of rum, and some glass bottles, some of the common 
size, and others which were case-bottles square, for the 
holding of waters, spirits, etc. I had not so much as a pot 
to boil anything, except a great kettle, which I saved out 
of the ship, and which was too big for such use as I desired 
it, viz., to make broth, and stew a bit of meat by itself. 
The second thing I would fain have had was a tobacco- 
pipe ; but it was impossible to me to make one. However, 
I found a contrivance for that, too, at last. 

I employed myself in planting my second rows of stakes 
or piles and in this wicker- working aU. the summer or dry 
season, when another business took me up more time than 
it could be imagined I could spare. 

I now resolved to travel quite across to the seashore 
on the other side of the island; so taking my gun, a 
hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quantity of powder 
and shot than usual, with two bisci^t-cakes and a great 
bunch of raisins in my pouch for my store, I began my 



80 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


journey. When I had passed the vale where my bower 
stood, as above, I came within view of the sea to the 
west ; and it being a very clear day, I fairly descried land, 
whether an island or a continent I could not tell; but 
it lay very high, extending from the west to the W.S.W. 
at a very great distance ; by my guess, it could not be less 
than fifteen or twenty leagues off. 

I saw abundance of parrots, and fain I would have 
caught one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame, and 
taught it to speak to me. I did, after some painstaking, 
catch a young parrot, for I knocked it down with a stick, 
and having recovered it, I brought it home ; but it was 
some years before I could make him speak. However, at 
last I taught him to call me by my name very familiarly. 
But the accident that followed, though it be a trifle, will 
be very diverting in its place. 

I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I found 
in the low grounds hares, as 1 thought them to be, and 
foxes ; but they differed greatly from all the other kinds I 
had met with, nor could I satisfy myself to eat them, 
though I killed several. But I had no need to be ven- 
turous, for I had no want of food, and of that which was 
very good too; especially these three sorts, viz., goats, 
pigeons, and turtle or tortoise ; which, added to my grapes, 
Leadenhall Market could not have furnished a table better 
than I, in proportion to the company. And though my 
case was deplorable enough, yet I had great cause for 
thankfulness, and that I was not driven to any extremities 
for food, but had plenty, even to dainties. 

As soon as I came to the seashore, I was surprised to 
see that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of the 
island, for here indeed the shore was covered with in- 
numerable turtles ; whereas, on the other side, I had found 
but three in a year ^nd a half. Here was also an infinite 
number of fowls of many kinds, some which I had seen. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 81 

and some whicli I had not seen before, and many of 
them very good meat, but such as I knew not the names 
of, except those called penguins. 

I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very 
spa:j^ng of my powder and shot, and therefore had more 
mind to kill a she-goat, if I could, which I could better 
feed on ; and though there were many goats here, more 
than on my side of the island, yet it was with much more 
difliculty that I could come near them, the country being 
flat and even, and they saw me much sooner than when I 
was on the hill. 

I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter 
than mine; but yet I had not the least inclination to 
remove, for as I was fixed in my habitation, it became 
natural to me, and I seemed all the while I was here to be 
as it were upon a journey, and from home. However, I 
travelled along the shore of the sea towards the east, I 
suppose about twelve miles, and then setting up a great 
pole upon the shore for a mark, I concluded I would go 
home again, and that the next journey I took should be 
on the other side of the island, east from my dwelling, and 
so round till I came to my post again ; of which in its place. 

I took another way to come back than that I went, think- 
ing I could easily keep all the island so much in my view, 
that I could not miss finding my first dwelling by viewing 
the country. But I found myself mistaken. I wandered 
about very uncomfortably, and at last was obliged to find 
out the seaside, look for my post, and come back the same 
way I went ; and then by easy journeys I turned home- 
ward, the weather being exceeding hot, and my gun, 
ammunition, hatchet, and other things very heavy. 

In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and 
seized upon it, and I running in to take hold of it, caught 
it, and saved it alive firom the dog. I had a great mind 
to bring it home if I could, for I had often been musing 

a 



82 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

% 

whether it might not be possible to get a kid or two, and 
so raise a breed of tame goats, which might supply me 
when my powder and shot should be all spent. 

I made a collar to this little creature, an^ with a 
string, which I made of some rope-yarn, which I always 
carried about me, I led him along, though with some diffi- 
culty, till I came to my bower, and there I enclosed him 
and left him, for I was very impatient to be at home, from 
whence I had been absent above a month. 

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to 
come into my old hutch, and lie down in my hammock- 
bed. This little wandering journey, without settled place 
of abode, had been so unpleasant to me, that my own 
house, as I called it to myself, was a perfect settlement to 
me compared to that; and it rendered everything about 
me so comfortable, that I resolved I would never go a 
great way from it again, while it should be my lot to stay 
on the island. 

I reposed myself here a week to rest and regale myself 
after my long journey; during which most of the time was 
taken up in the weighty affair of making a cage for my 
Poll, who began now to be a mere domestic, and to be 
mighty well acquainted with me. Then I began to think 
of the poor kid which I had penned in within my little 
circle, and resolved to go and fetch it home, or give it some 
food. Accordingly I went, and found it where I left it, 
for indeed it could not get out, but was almost starved for 
want of food. I went and cut boughs of trees, and branches 
of such shrubs as I could find, and threw them over, and 
having fed it, I tied it as I did before, to lead it away ; 
but it was so tame with being hungry, that I had no need 
to have tied it, for it followed me like a dog. And as I 
continually fed it, the creature became so loving, so gentle, 
and so fond, that it became from that time one of my 
domestics also, and would never leave me afterwards. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 83 

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now 
come, and I kept the 30th of September in the same solemn 
manner ^ before, being the anniversary of my landing on 
the island, having now been there two years, and no more 
prospect of being delivered than the first day I came there. 
I spent the whole day in humble and thankful acknow- 
ledgments of the many wonderful mercies which my solitary 
condition was attended with, and without which it might 
have been infinitely more miserable. 

Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third 
year ; and though I have not given the reader the trouble 
of so particular account of my works this year as the first, 
yet in general it may be observed, that I was very seldom 
idle, but having regularly divided my time, according to 
the several daily employments that were before me, such 
as, first, my duly to God, and the reading the Scriptures, 
which I constantly set apart some time for, thrice every 
day; secondly, the going abroad with my gun for food, 
which generally took me up thfee hours in every morning, 
when it did not rain ; thirdly, the ordering, curing, pre- 
serving, and cooking what I had killed or caught for my 
supply ; these took up great part of the day ; also, it is to 
be considered that the middle of the day, when the sun 
was in the zenith, the violence of the heat was too great to 
stir out ; so that about four hours in the evening was all 
the time I could be supposed to work in, with this excep- 
tion, that sometimes I changed my hours of hunting and 
working, and went to work in the morning, and abroad 
with my gun in the afternoon. 

To this short time allowed for labour, I desire may be 
added the exceeding laboriousness of my work ; the many 
hours which, for want of tools, want of help, and want of 
skill, everything* I did took up out of my time. For 
example, I was full two and forty days making me a board 
for a long shelf, which I wanted in my cave ; whereas two 



84 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


sawyers, with their tools and a sawpit, would have cut six 
of them out of the same tree in half a day. 

My case was this : it was to be a large tree which was 
to be cut down, because my board was to be a broad one. 
This tree I was three days a-outting down, and two more 
cutting off the boughs, and reducing it to a log, or piece of 
timber. With inexpressible hacking and hewing, I re- 
duced both the sides of it into chips till it began to be 
light enough to move; then I turned it, and made one 
side of it smooth and flat as a board from end to end ; then 
turning that side downward, cut the other side, till I 
brought the plank to be about three inches thick, and 
smooth on both sides. Any one may judge the labour of 
my hands in such a piece of work ; but labour and patience 
carried me through that, and many other things. I only 
observe this in particular to show the reason why so much 
of my time went away with so little work, viz., that what 
might be a little to be done with help and tools, was a vast 
labour, and required a prodigious time to do alone, and by 
hand. But notwithstanding this, with patience and labour, 
I went through many things, and, indeed, everything that 
my circumstances made necessary for me to do, as will 
appear by what follows. 

I was now, in the months of November and December, 
expecting my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had 
manured or dug up for them was not great; for as I 
observed, my seed of each was not above the quantity of 
half a peck ; for I had lost one whole crop by sowing in 
the dry season. But now my crop promised very well, when 
on a sudden I found I was in danger of losing it all again 
by enemies of several sorts, which it was scarce possible to 
keep from it ; as, first the goats and wild creatures which 
I called hares, who, tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay 
in it night and day, as soon as it came up, and ate it so 
close, that it could get no time to shoot up into stalk. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 86. 


Tiiis I saw no remedy for but by making an enclosure 
about it with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of 
toil, and ^he more, because it required speed. However, 
as my arable land was but small, I got it well fenced 
in about three weeks' time, and shooting some of the 
creatures in the daytime, I set my dog to guard it in 
the night, tying him up to a stake at the gate, where he 
would stand and bark all night long ; so in a little time 
the enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew very 
strong and well, and began to ripen apace. 


I saw my little crop surrounded with 
fowls, of I know not how many sorts, who stood, as it 
were, watching till I should be gone. I immediately let 
fly among them, for I always had my gun with me. I 
had no sooner shot, but there rose up a little cloud of 
fowls, which I had not seen at all, from among the corn 
itself. 

This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a few 
days they would devour all my hopes, that I should be 
starved, and never be able to raise a crop at all, and what 
to do I could not tell. However, I resolved not to lose 
my corn, if possible, though I should watch it night and 
day. In the first place, I went among it to see what 
damage was already done, and found they had spoiled a 
good deal of it ; but that as it was yet too green for them, 
the loss was not so great but that the remainder was like 
to be a good crop if it could be saved. 

I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming away, 
I could easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees 
about me, as if they only waited till I was gone away. 
And the event proved it to be so ; for as I walked off, as 
if I was gone, 1 was no sooner out of their sight but they 



86 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


dropped down, one by one, into the corn again. I was 
so provoked, that I could not have patience to stay till 
more came on, knowing that every grain that^they ate 
now was, as it might be said, a peck-loaf to me in the 
consequence : but coining up to the hedge, I fired again, 
and killed three of them. This was what I wished for ; 
so I took them up, and served them as we serve notorious 
thieves in England, viz, hanged them in chains, for a 
terror to others. It is impossible to imagine almost that 
this should have such an effect as it had, for the fowls 
would not only not come at the corn, but, in short, they 
forsook all that part of the island, and I could never see 
a bird near the place as long as my scarecrows hung there. 

This I was very glad of, you may be sure ; and about 
the latter end of December, which was our second harvest 
of the year, I reaped my crop. 

I was sadly put to it for a scythe or a sickle to cut it 
down, and all I could do was to make one as well as I 
could out of one of the broadswords, or cutlasses, which 
I saved among the arms out of the ship. However, as my 
first crop was but small, I had no great difficulty to cut it 
down ; in short, I reaped it my way, for I cut nothing off 
but the ears, and carried them away in a great basket which 
I had made, and so rubbed the grain out with my hands ; 
and at the end of all my harvesting, I found that out of 
my half peck of seed I had near two bushels of rice, and 
above two bushels and a half of barley, that is to say, 
by my guess, for I had no measure at that time. 

However, this was a great encouragement to me, and 
1 foresaw that, in time, it would please God to supply me 
with bread. And yet here I was perplexed again, for I 
neither knew how to grind or make meal of my com, or 
indeed how to clean it and part it ; nor, if made into 
meal, how to make bread of it, and if how to make it, yet 
I knew not how to bake it. These things being added to 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 87 

my desire of having a good quantity for store, and to 
secure a constant supply, I resolved not to taste any of 
this crop^ but to preserve it all for seed against the next 
season, and, in the meantime, to employ all my study and 
hours of working to accomplish this great work of pro- 
viding myself with corn and bread. 

Within doors, that is, when it rained, and I could not 
go out, I found employment on the following occasions; 
always observing, that all the while I was at work, I 
diverted myself with talking to my parrot, and teaching 
him to speak, and I quickly taught him to know his own 
name, and at last to speak it out pretty loud, “Poll,"' 
which was the first word I ever heard spoken in the 
island by any mouth but my own. This, therefore, was 
not my work, but an assistant to my work ; for now, as I 
said, I had a great employment upon my hands, as follows, 
viz., I had long studied, by some means or other, to make 
myself some earthen vessels, which indeed I wanted sorely, 
but knew not where to come at them. However, consider- 
ing the heat of the climate, I did not doubt but if I could 
find out any such clay, I might botch up some such pot 
as might, being dried in the sun, be hard enough and 
strong enough to bear handling, and to hold anything that 
was dry, and required to be kept so; and as this was 
necessary in the preparing corn, meal, etc., which was the 
thing I was set upon, I resolved to make some as large 
as I could, and fit only to stand like jars, to hold what 
should be put into them. 

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at 
me, to tell how many awkward ways I took to raise this 
paste; what odd, misshapen, ugly things I made; how 
many of them fell in, and how many fed out, the clay not 
being stiff enough to bear its own weight; how many 
cracked by the over-violent heat of the sun, being set 
out too hastily ; and how many fell in pieces with only 



88 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

removing; as well before as after they were dried ; and, in 
a word, how, after having laboured hard to find the clay, to 
dig it, to temper it, to bring it home, and work ij6, I could 
not make above two large earthen ugly things (I cannot 
call them jars) in about two months' labour. 

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and 
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set them down 
again in two great wicker baskets, which I had made on 
purpose for them that they might not break; and as 
between the pot and the basket there w^as a little room to 
spare, I stuffed the space full of the rice and barley straw, 
and these two pots being to stand always dry, I thought 
would hold my dry com, and perhaps the meal, when the 
corn was bruised. 

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large 
pots, yet I made several smaller things with better success ; 
such as little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and pip- 
kins, and any thing my hand turned to ; and the heat of 
the sun baked them strangely hard. But all this would 
not answer my end, which was to get an earthen pot to 
hold what was liquid, and bear the fire, which none of 
these could do. It happened after some time, making a 
pretty large fire for cooking my meat, when I went to put 
it out after I had done with it, I found a broken piece of 
one of my earthenware vessels in the fire, burnt as hard 
as a stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeably surprised 
to see it, and said to myself, that certainly they might be 
made to bum whole, if they would burn broken. 

This set me to studying how to order my fire, so as to 
make it bum me some pots. I had no notion of a kiln, 
such as the potters bum in, or of glazing them with lead, 
though I had some lead to do it with ; but I placed three 
large pipkins, and two or three pots in a pile, one upon 
another, and placed my firewood all round it, with a great 
heap of embers under them. I plied the fire with fresh 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 89 


fuel round the outside, and upon the top, till I saw the 
pots in the inside red-hot quite through, and observed that 
they did^not crack at all. When I saw them clear red, I 
let them stand in that heat about five or six hours, till I 
found one of them, though it did not crack, did melt or 
run, for the sand which was mixed with the clay melted 
by the violence of the heat, and would have run into glass, 
if I had gone on ; so I slacked my fire gradually till the 
pots began to abate of the red colour ; and watching them 
all night, that I might not let the fire abate too fast, in 
the morning I had three very good, I will not say hand- 
some, pipkins, and two other earthen pots, as hard burnt 
as could be desired, and one of them perfectly glazed with 
the running of the sand. 

After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted 
no sort of earthenware for my use ; but I must needs say, 
as to the shapes of them, they were very indifferent, as 
any one may suppose, when I had no way of making them 
but as the children make dirt pies, or as a woman would 
make pies that never learned to raise paste. 

No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal 
to mine, when I found I had made an earthen pot that 
would bear the fire ; and I had hardly patience to stay 
till they were cold, before I set one upon the fire again, 
with some water in it, to boil me some meat, which it did 
admirably well ; and with a piece of a kid I made some 
very good broth, though I wanted oatmeal and several 
other ingredients requisite to make it so good as I would 
have had it been. 

My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to 
stamp or beat some corn in ; for as to the mill, there was 
no thought at arriving to that perfection of art with one 
pair of hands. I spent many a day to find out a great 
stone big enough to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar, 
and could find none at all, except what was in the solid 



90 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

rock, and which I had no way to dig or out out ; nor 
indeed were the rocks in the island of hardness sufficient, 
but were all of a sandy crumbling stone, which^ neither 
would bear the weight of a heavy pestle, nor would break 
the corn without filling it with sand. So, after a gi^at 
deal of time lost in searching for a stone, I gave it over, 
and resolved to look out for a great block of hard wood, 
which I found indeed much easier ; and getting one as big 
as I had strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed it in 
the outside with my axe and hatchet, and then, with the 
help of fire, and infinite labour, made a hollow place in it, 
as the Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After this, 
I made a great heavy pestle, or beater, of the wood called 
the iron-wood; and this I prepared and laid by against 
I had my next crop of corn, when I proposed to myself to 
grind, or rather pound, my corn into meal, to make my 
bread. 

My next difficulty was to make a sieve to dress my 
meal, and to part it from the bran and the husk, without 
which I did not see it possible I could have any bread. 
This was a most difficult thing, so ’much as but to think 
on, for to be sure I had nothing like the necessary thing 
to make it ; I mean fine thin canvas or stuff, to search the 
meal through. And here I was at a full stop for many 
months, nor did I really know what to do ; linen I had 
none left, but what was mere rags ; I had goats’ -hair, but 
neither knew I how to weave it or spin it ; and had I 
known how, there were no tools to work it with. All the 
remedy that I found for this was, that at last I did 
remember I had, among the seamen’s clothes which were 
saved out of the ship, some neckcloths of calico or mushn ; 
and with some pieces of these I made three small sieves, 
but proper enough for the work ; and thus I made shift 
for some years. How I did afterwards, I shall show in its 
place. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 91 


The baking part was the next thing to be considered, 
and how I should make bread when I came to have corn ; 
for, first^I had no yeast. As to that part, as there was no 
supplying the want, so I did not concern myself much 
about it ; but for an oven I was indeed in great pain. At 
length I found out an experiment for that also, which was 
this : I made some earthen vessels very broad, but not 
deep, that is to say, about two feet diameter, and not above 
nine inches deep ; these I burned in the fire, as I had 
done the other, and laid them by ; and when I wanted to 
bake, I made a great fire upon my hearth, which I had 
paved with some square tiles, of my own making and 
burning also ; but I should not call them square. 

When the firewood was burned pretty much into 
embers, or live coals, I drew them forward upon this 
hearth, so as to cover it all over, and there I let them lie 
till the hearth was very hot ; then sweeping away all the 
embers, I set down my loaf, or loaves, and whelming down 
the earthen pot upon them, drew the embers all round the 
outside of the pot, to keep in and add to the heat. And 
thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my 
barley-loaves, and became, in little time, a mere pastry- 
cook into the bargain ; for I made myself several cakes of 
the rice, and puddings ; indeed I made no pies, neither 
had I anything to put into them, supposing I had, except 
the flesh either of fowls or goats. 

It need not be wondered at, if all these things took me 
up most part of the third year of my abode here ; for it is 
to be observed, that in the intervals of these things I had 
my new harvest and husbandry to manage ; for I reaped 
my corn in its season, and carried it home as well as 
I could, and laid it up in the ear, in my large baskets, till 
I had time to rub it out, for I had no floor to thrash it on, 
or instrument to thrash it with. 

And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I really 



m ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

wanted to build my barns bigger. I wanted a place to lay 
it np in, for the increase of the corn now yielded me so 
much, that I had of the barley about twenty bushfJs, and 
of the rice as much, or more, insomuch that now I resolved 
to begin to use it freely ; for my bread had been quite 
gone a great while ; also, I resolved to see what quantity 
would be sufficient for me a whole year, and to sow but 
once a year. 

Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of 
barley and rice was much more than I could consume 
in a year; so I resolved to sow just the same quantity 
every year that I sowed the last, in hopes that such a 
quantity would fully provide me with bread, etc. 

All the while these things were doing, you may be 
sure my thoughts ran many times upon the prospect of 
land which I had seen from the other side of the island, 
and I was not without secret wishes that I were on shore 
there, fancying the seeing the mainland, and in an inhabited 
country, I might find some way or other to convey myseK 
farther, and perhaps at last find some means of escape. 

But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers 
of such a condition, and how I might fall into the hands of 
savages, and perhaps such as I might have reason to think 
far worse than the lions and tigers of Africa ; that if I 
once came into their power, I should run a hazard more 
than a thousand to one of being killed, and perhaps of 
being eaten; for I had heard that the people of the 
Caribbean coasts were cannibals, or man-eaters, and I 
knew by the latitude that I could not be far off from 
that shore. That suppose they were not cannibals, yet 
that they might kill me, as many Europeans who had 
fallen into their hands had been served, even when they 
had been ten or twenty together, much more I, that was 
but one, and could make little or no defence ; all these 
things, I say, which I ought to have considered well of, 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 9S 

and did cast up in my thoughts afterwards, yet took up 
none of my apprehensions at first, but my head ran mightily 
upon the thought of getting over to the shore. 

I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat with 
the shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed above a 
thousand miles on the coast of Africa; but this was in 
vain. Then I thought I would go and look at our ship's 
boat, which, as I have said, was blown up upon the shore 
a great way, in the storm, when we were first cast away. 
She lay almost where she did at first, but not quite ; and 
was turned, by the force of the waves and the winds, 
almost bottom upward, against a high ridge of beachy 
rough sand, but no water about her, as before. 

If I had had hands to have refitted her, and to have 
launched her into the water, the boat would have done 
well enough, and I might have gone back into the Brazils 
with her easily enough ; but I might have foreseen that I 
could no more turn her and set her upright upon her bottom, 
than I could remove the island. However, I went to the 
woods, and cut levers and rollers, and brought them to 
the boat, resolved to try what I could do ; suggesting to 
myself that if I could but turn her down, I might easily 
repair the damage she had received, and she would be a 
very good boat, and I might go to sea in her very 
easily. 

I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless toil, 
and spent, I think, three or four weeks about it. At last, 
finding it impossible to heave it up with my little strength, 
I fell to digging away the sand, to undermine it, and so to 
make it fall down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and 
guide it right in the fall. But when I had done this, I 
was unable to stir it up again, or to get under it, much 
less to move it forward towards the water ; so I was forced 
to give it over. And yet, though I gave over the hopes 
of the boat, my desire to venture over to the main 



94 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

increased, rather than decreased, as the means for it 
seemed impossible. 

This at length put me upon thinking whether it was 
not possible to make myself a canoe, or fmagua, such as 
the natives of those climates make, even without tools, ^ or, 
as I might say, without hands, viz., of the trunk of a great 
tree. This I not only thought possible, but easy, and 
pleased myself extremely with the thoughts of making 
it, and with my having much more convenience for it 
than any of the negroes or Indians ; but not at all con- 
sidering the particular inconveniences which I lay under 
more than the Indians did, viz., want of hands to move 
it, when it was made, into the water, a diificulty much 
harder for me to surmount than all the consequences of 
want of tools could be to them. For what was it to me, 
that when I had chosen a vast tree in the woods, I might 
with much trouble cut it down, if, after I might be able 
with my tools to hew and dub the outside into the proper 
shape of a boat, and burn or cut out the inside to make 
it hollow, so to make a boat of it ; if, after all this, I 
must leave it just where I found it, and was not able to 
laimch it into the water ? 

One would have thought I could not have had the 
least reflection upon my mmd of my circumstance while I 
was making this boat, but I should have immediately 
thought how I should get it into the sea ; but my thoughts 
were so intent upon my voyage over the sea in it, that I 
never once considered how I should get it off the land ; 
and it was really, in its own nature, more easy for me to 
guide it over forty-five miles of sea, then about forty-five 
fathoms of land, where it lay, to set it afloat in the water. 

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool 
that ever man did who had any of his senses awake. I 
pleased myself with the design, without determining 
whether I was ever able to undertake it. Not but that 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 95 


the difficulty of launching my boat came often into my 
head ; but I put a stop to my own inquiries by this 
foolish answer which I gave myself, '"Let’s first make 
it ; 111 warrant 111 find some way or other to get it along 
when lis done.” 

This was a most preposterous method ; but the eager- 
ness of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went. I felled 
a cedar tree : I question much whether Solomon ever had 
such a one for the building of the Temple at Jerusalem. 
It was five feet ten inches diameter at the lower part next 
the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter at the 
end of twenty-two feet, after which it lessened for a while, 
and then parted into branches. It was not without 
infinite labour that I felled this tree. I was twenty days 
hacking and hewing at it at the bottom ; I was fourteen 
more getting the branches and limbs, and the vast spread- 
ing head of it cut off, which I hacked and hewed through 
with axe and hatchet, and inexpressible labour. After 
this, it cost me a month to shape it and dub it to a pro- 
portion, and to something like the bottom of a boat, that 
it might swim upright as it ought to do. It cost me near 
three months more to clear the inside, and work it so as to 
make an exact boat of it. This I did, indeed, without fire, 
by mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labour, 
till I had brought it to be a very handsome periagua, 
and big enough to have carried six and twenty men, and 
consequently big enough to have carried me and all my 
cargo. 

When I had gone through this work, I was extremely 
delighted with it. The boat was really much bigger than 
I ever saw a canoe or periagua^ that was made of one tree, 
in my life. Many a weary stroke it had cost, you may be 
sure ; and there remained nothing but to get it into the 
water; and had I got it into the water, I make no 
question but I should have begun the maddest voyage. 



96 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


and the most unlikely to be performed, that ever was 
undertaken. 

But all my devices to get it into the water failed me, 
though they cost me infinite labour too. It lay about one 
hundred yards from the water, and not more; but* the 
first inconvenience was, it was uphill towards the creek. 
Well, to take away this discouragement, I resolved to dig 
into the surface of the earth, and so make a declivity. 
This I began, and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains ; 
but who grudges pains, that have their deliverance in view ? 
But when this was worked through, and this difldculty 
managed, it was still much at one, for I could no more stir 
the canoe than I could the other boat. 

Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved 
to cut a dock or canal, to bring the water up to the 
canoe, seeing I could not bring the canoe down to the 
water. Well, I began this work; and when I began to 
enter into it, and calculate how deep it was to be dug, how 
broad, how the stuff to be thrown out, I found that by the 
number of hands I had, being none but my own, it must 
have been ten or twelve years before I should have gone 
through with it; for the shore lay high, so that at the 
upper end it must have been at least twenty feet deep ; so 
at length, though with great reluctancy, I gave this attempt 
over also. 

This grieved me heartily ; and now I saw, though too 
late, the folly of beginning a work before we count the 
cost, and before we judge rightly of our own strength to go 
through with it. 

In the middle of this work I finished my fourth year 
in this place, and kept my anniversary with the same 
devotion, and with as much comfort as ever before. 

I had now been here so long, that many things which 
I brought on shore for my help were either quite gone, or 
very much wasted, and near spent. My ink, had been 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 97 


gone for some time, all but a very little, which I eked out 
with water, a little and a little, till it was so pale it scarce 
left any appearance of black upon the paper. As long as 
it lasted, I made use of it to note down the days of the 
mouth on which any remarkable thing happened to me. 

The next thing to my ink being wasted, was that of 
my bread ; I mean the biscuit, which I brought out of the 
ship. This I had husbanded to the last degree, allowing 
myself but one cake of bread a day for above a year ; and 
yet I was quite without bread for near a year before I got 
any corn of my own ; and great reason I had to be thankful 
that I had any at all, the getting it being, as has been 
already observed, next to miraculous. 

My clothes began to decay, too, mightily. As to linen, 
I had none a good while, except some chequered shirts 
which I found in the chests of the other seamen, and 
which I carefully preserved, because many times I could 
bear no other clothes on but a shirt ; and it was a very 
great help to me that I had, among all the men's clothes 
of the ship, almost three dozen of shirts. 

I had worn out all the waistcoats I had, and my 
business was now to try if I could not make jackets out of 
the great watch-coats which I had by me, and with such 
other materials as I had ; so I set to work a-tailoring, or 
rather, indeed, a-botching, for I made most piteous work of 
it. However, I made shift to make two or three new 
waistcoats, which I hoped would serve me a great while. 
As for breeches, or drawers, I made but a sorry shift indeed 
till afterward. 

I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the 
creatures that I killed, I mean four-footed ones, and I had 
hung them up stretched out with sticks in the sun, by which 
means some of them were so dry and hard that they were 
fit for little, blit others it seems were very useful. The 
first thing I made of these was a great cap for my head, 

B 



98 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


with, the hair on the outside, to shoot off the rain ; and this 
I performed so well, that after this I made me a suit of 
clothes wholly of these skins, that is to say, a waistcoat, 
and breeches open at knees, and both loose, for they were 
rather wanting to keep me cool than to keep me warm. I 
must not omit to acknowledge that they were wretchedly 
made ; for if I was a bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor. 
However, they were such as I made very good shift with ; 
and when I was abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of 
my waistcoat and cap being outermost, I was kept very dry. 

After this I spent a great deal of time and pains to 
make me an umbrella. I was indeed in great want of one, 
and had a great mind to make one. I had seen them made 
in the Brazils, where they are very useful in the great 
heats, which are there; and I felt the heats every jot as 
great here, and greater too, being nearer the equator. 
Besides, as I was obliged to be much abroad, it was a most 
useful thing to me, as well for the rains as the heats. I 
took a world of pains at it, and was a great while before I 
could make anything likely to hold : nay, after I thought 
I had hit the way, I spoiled two or three before I made 
one to my mind; but at last I made one that answered 
indifferently well. The main difficulty I found was to 
make it to let down. I could make it to spread ; but if it 
did not let down too, and draw in, it was not portable for 
me any way but just over my head, which would not do. 
However, at last, as I said, I made one to answer, and 
covered it with skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast off 
the rains like a pent-house, and kept off the sun so effectu- 
ally, that I could walk out in the hottest of the weather 
with greater advantage than I could before in the coolest ; 
and when I had no need of it, could close it, and carry 
it under my arm. 

I cannot say that after this, for five years, any extra- 
ordinary thing happened to me; but I lived on in the 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 99 

same course, in the same posture and place, just as before. 
The chief things I was employed in, besides my yearly 
labour o]^ planting my barley and rice, and curing my 
raisins, oi both which I always kept up just enough to 
have sufficient stock of one year's provisions beforehand — 
I say, besides this yearly labour, and my daily labour of 
going out with my gun, I had one labour, to make me a 
canoe, which at last I finished ; so that by digging a canal 
to it of six feet wide, and four feet deep, I brought it into 
the creek, almost half a mile. As for the fii’st, which was 
so vastly big, as I made it without considering beforehand, 
as I ought to have done, how I should be able to launch it ; 
so, never being able to bring it to the water, or bring the 
water to it, I was obliged to let it lie where it was, as a 
memorandum to teach me to be wiser next time. Indeed, 
the next time, though I could not get a tree proper for it, 
and in a place where I could not get the water to it at 
any less distance than, as I have said, near half a mile, 
yet as I saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it 
over; and though I was near two years about it, yet I 
never grudged my labour, in hopes of having a boat to go 
off to sea at last. 

However, though my little p&riagua was finished, yet 
the size of it was not at all answerable to the design 
which I had in view when I made the first ; I mean, of 
venturing over to the terra firma, where it was about 
forty miles broad. Accordingly, the smallness of my boat 
assisted to put an end to that design, and now I thought 
no more of it. But as I had a boat, my next design was 
to make a tour round the island ; for as I had been on 
the other side in one place, crossing, as I have already 
described it, over the land, so the discoveries I made in 
that little journey made me very eager to see other parts 
of the coast ; and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing 
but sailing round the island. 







ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 101 

For ’*tMs purpose, that I might do everything with 
discretion and consideration, I fitted up a little mast to 
my boat, and made a sail *to it out of some of the pieces of 
the ship’s sail, which lay in store, and of which I had a 
great stock by me. 

Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the boat, 
I found she would sail very well. Then I made little 
lockers, or boxes, at either end of my boat, to put pro- 
visions, necessaries, and ammunition, etc., into, to be kept 
dry, either from rain or the spray of the sea ; and a little 
long hollow place I cut in the inside of the boat, where I 
could lay my gun, making a flap to hang down over it to 
keep it dry. 

I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a 
mast, to stand over my head, and keep the heat of the sun 
off me, like an awning ; and thus I every now and then 
took a little voyage upon the sea, but never went far out, 
not far from the little creek. But at last, being eager to 
view the circumference of my little kingdom, I resolved 
upon my tour ; and accordingly I victualled my ship for 
the voyage, putting in two dozen of my loaves (cakes I 
should rather call them) of barley bread, an earthen pot 
full of parched rice, a food I ate a great deal of, a little 
bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder and shot for killing 
more, and two large watch-coats, of those which, as I 
mentioned before, I had saved out of the seamen’s chests ; 
these I took, one to lie upon, and the other to cover me in 
the night. 

It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of my 
reign, or my captivity, which you please, that I set out on 
this voyage, and I found it much longer than I expected ; 
for though the island itseK was not very large, yet when I 
came to the east side of it I found a great ledge of rocks 
lie out above two leagues into the sea, some above water, 
some under it, and beyond that a shoal of sand, lying dry 



102 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


half a league more ; so that I was obliged to go^ a great 
way out to sea to double the point. 

When first I discovered them, I was going to give over 
my enterprise and come back again, not knowing how far 
it might oblige me to go out to sea, and, above all, dcmbt- 
ing how I should get back again, so I came to an anchor ; 
for I had made me a kind of anchor with a piece of a 
broken grappling which I got out of the ship. 

Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on 
shore, climbing up upon a hill, which seemed to overlook 
that point, where I saw the full extent of it, and resolved 
to venture. 

In my viewing the sea from that hill, where I stood, 
I perceived a strong, and indeed a most furious current, 
which ran to the east, and even came close to the point ; 
and I took the more notice of it, because I saw there 
might be some danger that when I came into it I might 
be carried out to sea by the strength of it, and not be able 
to make the island again. And indeed, had I not gotten 
first up upon this hill, I believe it would have been so ; for 
there was the same current on the other side of the island, 
only that it set off at a further distance ; and I saw there 
was a strong eddy under the shore ; so I had nothing to do 
but to get in out of the first current, and I should presently 
be in an eddy. 

I lay here, however, two days; because the wind, 
blowing pretty fresh at E.S.E., and that being just con- 
trary to the said current, made a great breach of the sea 
upon the point ; so that it was not safe for me to keep too 
close to the shore for the breach, nor to go too far off 
because of the stream. 

The third day, in the morning, the wind having abated 
overnight, the sea was calm, and I ventured. But I am a 
warning piece again to all rash and ignorant pilots ; for 
no sooner was I come to the point, when even I was not 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. lOS 


my boat^s lengtii from tlie shore, but I found myself in a 
great depth of water, and a current like the sluice of a 
mill. It carried my boat along with it with such violence, 
that all f^could do would not keep her so much as on the 
edgQ of it, but I found it hurried me farther and farther 
out from the eddy, which was on my left hand. There 
was no wind stirring to help me, and all I could do with 
my paddlers signified nothing. And now I began to give 
myself over for lost ; for, as the current was on both sides 
of the island, I knew in a few leagues’ distance they must 
join again, and then I was irrecoverably gone. Nor did I 
see any possibility of avoiding it ; so that I had no prospect 
before me but of perishing ; not by the sea, for that was 
calm enough, but of starving for hunger. I had indeed 
found a tortoise on the shore, as big almost as I could lift, 
and had tossed it into the boat; and I had a great jar of 
fresh water, that is to say, one of my earthen pots ; but 
what was all this to being driven into the vast ocean, 
where to be sure, there was no shore, no mainland or 
island, for a thousand leagues at least ? 

However, I worked hard, till indeed my strength was 
almost exhausted, and kept my boat as much to the north- 
ward, that is, towards the side of the current which the 
eddy lay on, as possibly I could ; when about noon, as the 
sun passed the meridian, I thought I felt a little breeze of 
wind in my face, springing up from the S.S.E. This 
cheered my heart a little, and especially when, in about 
half-an-hour more, it blew a pretty small gentle gale. By 
this time I was gotten at a frightful distance from the 
island ; and had the least cloud or hazy weather intervened, 
I had been undone another way too ; for I had no compass 
on board, and should never have known how to have 
steered towards the island if I had but once lost sight of 
it. But the weather continuing clear, I applied myself to 
get up my mast again, and spread my sail, standing away 



104 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


to the north as much as possible, to get out of the current, 
and in about an hour came within about a mile of the 
shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon got to land. 

I was now at a great loss which way to get home with 
my boat. I had run so much hazard, and knew too nmch 
to think of attempting it by the way I went out; and 
what might be at the other side (I mean the west side) 
I knew not, nor had I any mind to run any more ventures. 
So I only resolved in the morning to make my way west- 
ward along the shore, and to see if there was no creek 
where I might lay up my frigate in safety, so as to have 
her again if I wanted her. In about three mdles, or there- 
abouts, coasting the shore, I came to a very good inlet or 
bay, about a mile over, which narrowed till it came to a 
very little rivulet or brook, where I found a very con- 
venient harbour for my boat, and where she lay as if she 
had been in a little dock made on purpose for her. Here I 
put in, and having stowed my boat very safe, I went on 
shore to look about me, and see where I was. 

I soon found I had but a little passed by the place 
where I had been before, when I travelled on foot to that 
shore; so taking nothing out of my boat but "my gun and 
my umbrella, for it was exceedingly hot, I began my 
march. The way was comfortable enough after such a 
voyage as I had been upon, and I reached my old bower 
in the evening, where I found everything standing as I left 
it; for I always kept it in good order, being, as I said 
before, my country house. 

I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade to 
rest my limbs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep. But 
Judge you, if you can, that read my story, what a surprise 
I must be in, when I was waked out of my sleep by a 
voice calling me by name several times, “ Robin, EoW, 
Robin Crusoe, poor Robin Crusoe I Where are you, Robin 
Crusoe \ Where are you 1 Where have you been ? 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 105 


I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with row- 
ing, or paddling, as it is called, the first part of the day, 
and with walking the latter part, that I did not wake 
thorough!^ ; but dozing between sleeping and waking, 
thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to me. But as 
the voice continued to repeat “Eobin Crusoe, Eobin 
Crusoe,” at last I began to wake more perfectly, and was 
at first dreadfully frightened, and started up in the utmost 
consternation. But no sooner were my eyes open, but I 
saw my Poll sitting on the top of the hedge, and immedi- 
ately knew that it was he that spoke to me ; for just in 
such bemoaning language I had used to talk to him, and 
teach him; and he had learned it so perfectly, that he 
would sit upon my finger, and lay his bill close to my 
face, and cry, “Poor Eobin Crusoe! Where are you? 
Where have you been ? How come you here ? ” and such 
things as I had taught him. 

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and 
that indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good while 
before I could compose myself. First, I was amazed how 
the creature got thither, and then, how he should just keep 
about the place, and nowhere else. But as I was well 
satisfied it could be nobody but honest Poll, I got it over ; 
and holding out my hand, and calling him by his name, 
Poll, the sociable creature came to me, and sat upon my 
thumb, as he used to do, and continued talking to me, 
“Poor Eobin Crusoe! and how did I come here? and 
where had I been ? ” just as if he had been overjoyed to 
see me again ; and so I carried him home along with me. 

I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some 
time, and had enough to do for many days to sit still, and 
reflect upon the danger I had been in. I would have been 
very glad to have had my boat again on my side of the 
island ; but I knew not how it was practicable to get it 
about. As to the east side of the island, which I had gone 



106 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


round, I knew well enough there was no venturing that 
way ; my very heart would shrink, and my very blood run 
chill, but to think of it. And as to the other side of the 
island, I did not know how it might be there ; but suppos- 
ing the current ran with the same force against the shore 
at the east as it passed by it on the other, I might run the 
same risk of being driven down the stream, and carried by 
the island, as I had been before of being carried away from 
it. So, with these thoughts, I contented myself to be 
without any boat, though it had been the product of so 
many months' labour to make it, and of so many more to 
get it unto the sea. 

I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic 
exercises which my necessities put me upon applying 
myself to, and I believe could, upon occasion, make a very 
good carpenter, especially considering how few tools I had. 
Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my 
earthenware, and contrived well enough to make them 
with a wheel, which I found infinitely easier and better, 
because I made things round and shapable which before 
were filthy things indeed to look on. But I think I was 
never more vain of my own performance, or more joyful 
for anything I found out, than for my being able to make 
a tobacco-pipe. And though it was a very ugly clumsy 
thing when it was done, and only burnt red, like other 
earthenware, yet as it was hard and firm, and would draw 
the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted with it ; for I had 
been always used to smoke, and there were pipes in the 
ship, but I forgot them at first, not knowing that there 
was tobacco in the island; and afterwards, when I searched 
the ship again, I could not come at any pipes at all. 

In my wicker- ware also I improved much, and made 
abundance of necessary baskets, as well as my invention 
showed me; though not very handsome, yet they were 
such as were very handy and convenient for my laying 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 107 

things up in, or fetching things home in. For example, if 
I killed a goat abroad, I could hang it up in a tree, flay it, 
and dress it, and cut it In pieces, and bring it home in a 
basket ; ^d the like by a turtle ; I could cut it up, take 
outnthe eggs and a piece or two of the flesh, which was 
enough for me, and bring them home in a basket, and 
leave the rest behind me. Also large deep baskets were 
my receivers for my corn, which I always rubbed out as 
soon as it was dry, and cured, and kept it in great baskets. 

I began now to perceive my powder abated consider- 
ably, and this was a want which it was impossible for me 
to supply, and I began seriously to consider what I must 
do when I should have no more powder ; that is to say, 
how I should do to kill any goats. I had, as is observed, 
in the third year of my being here kept a young kid, and 
bred her up tame. I could never find in my heart to kill 
her, till she died at last of mere age. 

But being now in the eleventh year of my residence, 
and, as I have said, my ammunition growing low, I set 
myself to study some art to trap and snare the goats, to 
see whether I could not catch some of them alive. 

To this purpose, I made snares to hamper them, and 
I do believe they were more than once taken in them ; 
but my tackle was not good, for I had no wire, and I 
always found them broken, and my bait devoured. At 
length I resolved to try a pitfall ; so I dug several large 
pits in the earth, in places where I had observed the goats 
used to feed, and over these pits I placed hurdles, of my 
own making too, with a great weight upon them; and 
several times I put ears of barley and dry rice, without 
setting the trap, and I could easily perceive that the goats 
had gone in and eaten up the corn, for I could see the 
mark of their feet. At length I set three traps in one 
night, and going the next morning, I found them all 
standing, and yet the bait eaten and gone ; this was very 



108 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


discouraging. However, I altered my trap ; ancf, not to 
trouble you with, particulars, going one morning to see my 
trap, I found in one of them a*" large old he-goat, and in 
one of the others three kids. 

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him, he 
was so fierce that I durst not go into the pit to him ; that 
is to say, to go about to bring him away alive, which was 
what I wanted. So I even let him out, and he ran away, 
as if he had been frightened out of his wits. But I had 
forgotten then what I learned afterwards, that hunger will 
tame a lion. If I had let him stay there three or four 
days without food, and then^have carried him some water 
to drink, and then a little corn, he would have been as 
tame as one of the kids, for they are mighty sagacious, 
tractable creatures where they are well used. 

However, for the present I let him go, knowing no 
better at that time. Then I went to the three kids, and 
taking them one by one, I tied them together with strings, 
and with some difficulty brought them all home. 

It was a good while before they would feed, but throw- 
ing them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and they 
began to be tame. And now I found that if I expected 
to supply myself with goat-flesh when I had no powder or 
shot left, breeding some up tame was my only way, when 
perhaps I might have them about my house like a flock of 
sheep. 

But then it presently occurred to me that I must keep 
the tame from the wild, or else they would always run 
wild when they grew up ; and the only way for this was 
to have an enclosed piece of ground, well fenced either 
with hedge or pale, to keep them in so effectually, that 
those within might not break out, or those without 
break in. 

This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands , 
yet as I saw there was an absolute necessity of doing it. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 109 

my firs? piece of work was to find out a proper piece of 
ground, viz., where there was likely to be herbage for them 
to eat, water for them to drink, and cover to keep them 
from th^un. 

JFor the first beginning, I resolved to enclose a piece 
of about 150 yards in length, and 100 yards in breadth; 
which, as it would maintain as many as I should have in 
any reasonable time, so, as my flock increased, I could add 
more ground to my enclosure. 

This was acting with some prudence, and I went to 
work with courage. I was about three months hedging 
in the first piece, and, till I had done it, I tethered the 
three kids in the best part of it, and used them to feed as 
near me as possible, to make them familiar; and very 
often I would go and carry them some ears of barley, or a 
handful of rice, and feed them out of my hand ; so that 
after my enclosure was finished, and I let them loose, they 
would follow me up and down, bleating after me for a 
handful of corn. 

This answered my end, and in about a year and a half 
I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids, and all ; and in 
two years more I had three and forty, besides several that 
I took and killed for my food. After that I enclosed 
five several pieces of ground to feed them in, with little 
pens to drive them into, to take them as I wanted, and 
gates out of one piece of ground into another. 

But this was not all, for now I not only had goat's 
flesh to feed on when I pleased, but milk too, a thing 
which, indeed, in my beginning, I did not so much as 
think of, and which, when it came into my thoughts, was 
really an agreeable surprise. For now I set up my dairy, 
and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a day; and, 
as Nature, who gives supplies of food to every creature, 
dictates even naturally how to make use of it, so I, that 
had never milked a cow, much less a goat, or seen butter 



110 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


or cheese made, very readily and handily, thongh"^ after a 
great many essays and miscarriages, made me both butter 
and .cheese at last, and never wanted it afterwards. 

I was something impatient, as I have observed, to have 
the use of my boat, though very loth to run any more 
hazards; and therefore sometimes I sat contriving ways 
to get her about the island, and at other times I sat myself 
down contented enough without her. But I had a strange 
uneasiness in my mind to go down to the point of the 
the island where, as I have said, in my last ramble, I went 
up the hill to see how the shore lay, and how the current 
set, that I might see what I had to do. This inclination 
increased upon me every day, and at length I resolved to 
travel thither by land, following the edge of the shore. I 
did so ; but had any one in England met such a man 
as I was, it must either have frightened him, or raised 
a great deal of laughter ; and as I frequently stood still 
to look at myself, I could not but smile at the notion of 
my travelling through Yorkshire, with such an equipage, 
and in such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch of my 
figure, as follows. 

I had a great high shapeless cap, made of a goat’s skin, 
with a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep the sun 
from me, as to shoot the rain off from running into my 
neck; nothing being so hurtful in these climates as the 
rain upon the flesh, under the clothes. 

I had a short jacket of goat-skin, the skirts coming 
down to about the middle of my thighs; and a pair of 
open-kneed breeches of the same. The breeches were 
made of the skin of an old he-goat, whose hair hung down 
such a length on either side, that, like pantaloons, it 
reached to the middle of my legs. Stockings and shoes 
I had none, but had made me a pair of somethings^ I 
scarce know what to call them, like buskins, to flap over 
my legs, and lace on either side like spatter-dashes; but 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. Ill 


of a mSst barbarous shape, as indeed were all the rest 
of my clothes. 

I had on a broad beJt of goat’s skin dried, which I 
drew tog^her with two thongs of the same, instead of 
buckles ; and in a kind of ♦a frog on either side of this, 
instead of a sword and a dagger, hung a Httle saw and a 
hatchet, one on one side, one on the other. I had another 
belt, not so broad, and fastened in the same manner, 
which hung over my shoulder; and at the end of it, 
under my left arm, hung two pouches, both made of goat’s 
skin too ; in one of which hung my powder, in the other 
my shot. At my back I carried my basket, on my 
shoulder my gun, and over my head a great clumsy ugly 
goat-skin umbrella, but which, after all, was the most 
necessary thing I had about me, next to my gun. As for 
my face, the colour of it was really not so mulatto-like as 
one might expect from a man not at aU careful of it, and 
living within nineteen degrees of the equinox. My beard 
I had once sufiered to grow tiE it was about a quarter of a 
yard long ; but as I had both scissors and razors sufidcient, 
I had cut it pretty short, except what grew on my upper 
lip, which I had trimmed into a large pair of Mahometan 
whiskers, such as I had seen worn by some Turks whom I 
saw at Sallee ; for the Moors did not wear such, though 
the Turks did. Of these mustachios or whiskers, I will 
not say they were long enough to hang my hat upon 
them, but they were of a length and shape monstrous 
enough, and such as, in England, would have passed for 
frightful. 

But all this is by-the-bye ; for, as to my figure, I had 
so few to observe me, that it was of no manner of conse- 
quence ; so I say no more to that part. In this kind of 
figure I went my new journey, and was out five or six 
days. I travelled first along the sea-shore, directly to the 
place where I first brought my boat to an anchor, to get 



112 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


up upon the rocks. And having no boat now to cake care 
of, I went over the land, a nearer way, to the same height 
that I was upon before; when, looking forward to the 
point of the rooks which lay out, and which I 'Vvas obliged 
to double with my boat, as is' said above, I was surprised 
to see the sea all smooth and quiet, no rippling, no 
motion, no current, any more there than in other places. 

I was at a strange loss to understand this, and resolved 
to spend some time in observing it, to see if nothing from 
the sets of the tide had occasioned it. 

My observation convinced me that I had nothing to 
do but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the tide, 
and I might very easily bring my boat about the island 
again. But when I began to think of putting it in 
practice, I had such a terror upon my spirits at the 
remembrance of the danger I had been in, that I could 
not think of it again with any patience ; but, on the con- 
trary, I took up another resolution, which was more safe, 
though more laborious ; and this was that I would build, 
or rather make me another periagua or canoe; and so 
have one for one side of the island, and one for the other. 

You are to understand that now I had, as I may call 
it, two plantations in the island ; one, my little fortifi- 
cation or tent, with the wall about it, under the rock, with 
the cave behind me, which, by this time, I had enlarged 
into several apartments or caves, one within another. One 
of these, which was the driest and largest, and had a door 
out beyond my wall or fortification, that is to say, beyond 
where my wall joined to the rock, was all fiUed up with 
the large earthen pots, of which I have given an account, 
and with fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which would 
hold five or six bushels each, where I laid up my stores 
of provision, especially my corn, some in the ear, cut off 
short from the straw, and the other rubbed out with my 
hand. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 113 

As for my wall, made, as before, with, long stakes or 
piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were by this 
time groTO so big, and spread so very much, that there 
was not tne least appearance, to any one’s view, of any 
habitation behind them. 

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within 
the land, and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of 
corn ground, which I kept duly cultivated and sowed, and 
which duly yielded me their harvest in its season ; and 
whenever I had occasion for more corn, I had more land 
adjoining as fit as that. 

Besides this, I had my country seat, and I had now a 
tolerable plantation there also ; for, first, I had my little 
bower, as I called it, which I kepr in repair ; that is to 
say, I kept the hedge which circled it in constantly fitted 
up to its usual height, the ladder standing always in the 
inside. I kept the trees, which at first were no more than 
my stakes, but were now grown very firm and tall, I kept 
them always so cut that they might spread and grow 
thick and wild, and make the more agreeable shade, which 
they did effectually to my mind. In the middle of this, I 
had my tent always standing, being a piece of a sail spread 
over poles, set up for that purpose, and which never wanted 
any repair or renewing ; and under this I had made me a 
squab or couch, with the skins of the creatures I had killed, 
and with other soft things, and a blanket laid on them, 
such as belonged to our sea-bedding, which I had saved, 
and a great watch-coat to cover me ; and here, whenever 
I had occasion to be absent from my chief seat, I took up 
my country habitation. 

Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my cattle, 
that is to say, my goats. And as I had taken an incon- 
ceivable deal of pains to fence and enclose this ground, so 
I was so uneasy to see it kept entire, lest the goats should 
break through, that I never left off till, with infinite labour, 

I 



114 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


I had stuck the outside of the hedge so full of small stakes, 
and so near to one another, that it was rather a pale than 
a hedge, and there was scarce rOom to put a hand through 
between them ; which afterwards, when those s'iakes grew, 
as they all did in the next rainy season, made the enclosure 
strong like a wall, indeed, stronger than any wall. 

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that I 
spared no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared neces- 
sary for my comfortable support; for I considered the 
keeping up a breed of tame creatures thus at my hand 
would be a living magazine of flesh, milk, butter, and cheese 
for me as long as I lived in the place, if it were to be forty 
years; and that keeping them in my reach depended 
entirely upon my perfecting my enclosures to such a degree, 
that I might be sure of keeping them together ; which, by 
this method, indeed, I so effectually secured, that when 
these little stakes began to grow, I had planted them so 
very thick, I was forced to pull some of them up again. 

In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I 
principally depended on for my winter store of raisins, and 
which I never failed to preserve very carefully, as the best 
and most agreeable dainty of my whole diet. And indeed 
they were not agreeable only, but wholesome, nourishing, 
and refreshing to the last degree. 

As this was also about half-way between my other 
habitation and the place where I had laid up my boat, I 
generally stayed and lay here in my way thither ; for I 
used frequently to visit my boat, and I kept all things 
about, or belonging to her, in very good order. Sometimes 
I went out in her to divert myself, but no more hazardous 
voyages would I go, nor scarce ever above a stone's cast or 
two trom the shore, I was so apprehensive of being hurried 
out of my knowledge again by the currents or winds, or any 
other accident. But now I come to a new scene of my life. 

It happened one day, about noon, going towards my 



ADVENTURES OF ROBlNSON CRUSOE. 115 


boat, I wis exceedingly surprised with the print of a man’s 
naked foot on the shore, which was very plain to be seen 
in the sand. I stood like dne thunderstruck, or as if I had 
seen an ap’^rition. I listened, I looked round me, I could 
hear nothing, nor see anything. I went up to a rising 
ground, to look farther. I went up the shore, and down 
the shore, but it was all one ; I could see no other impres- 
sion but that one. I went to it again to see if there were 
any more, and to observe if it might not be my fancy ; but 
there was no room for that, for there was exactly the very 
print of a foot — toes, heel, and every part of a foot. How 
it came thither I knew not, nor could in the least imagine. 

When I came to my castle, for so I think I called it 
ever after this, I fled into it like one pursued. Whether 
I went over by the ladder, as first contrived, or went in 
at the hole in the rock, which I called a door, I cannot 
remember ; no, nor could I remember the next morning, 
for never frightened hare fled to cover, or fox to earth, with 
more terror of mind than I to this retreat. 

I slept none that night. The farther I was from the 
occasion of my fright, the greater my apprehensions were ; 
which is something contrary to the nature of such things, 
and especially to the usual practice of all creatures in fear. 

In the middle of these apprehensions, it came into my 
thought one day, that all this might be a mere chimera of 
my own ; and that this foot might be the print of my own 
foot, when I came on shore from my boat. This cheered 
me up a little too, and I began to persuade myself it was 
all a delusion, that it was nothing else but my own foot ; 
and why might not I come that way from the boat, as 
well as I was going that way to the boat? Again, I 
considered also, that I could by no means tell, for certain, 
where I had trod, and where I had not ; and that if, at 
last, this was only the print of my own foot, I had played 
the part of those fools who strive to make stories of 



116 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


spectres and apparitions, and then are frightened at them 
more than anybody. 

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad 
again, for I had not stirred out of my castle fo/ibhree days 
and nights, so that I began to starve for provision for I 
had little or nothing within doors but some barley-cakes 
and water. Then I knew that my goats wanted to be 
milked too, which usually was my evening diversion ; and 
the poor creatures were in great pain and inconvenience 
for want of it; and, indeed, it almost spoiled some of 
them, and almost dried up their milk. 

Heartening myself, therefore, with the belief that this 
was nothing but the print of one of my own feet, and so 
I might be truly said to start at my own shadow, I began 
to go abroad again, and went to my country house to milk 
my flock. 

However, as I went down thus two or three days, and 
having seen nothing, I began to be a little bolder, and to 
think there was really nothing in it but my own imagina- 
tion. But I could not persuade myself fully of this till I 
should go down to the shore again, and see this print of a 
foot, and measure it by my own, and see if there was any 
similitude or fitness, that I might be assured it was my 
own foot. But when I came to the place first, it appeared 
evidently to me, that when I laid up my boat, I could 
not possibly be on shore anywhere thereabout ; secondly, 
when I came to measure the mark with my own foot, I 
found my foot not so large by a great deal. Both these 
things filled my head^with new imaginations, and gave 
me the vapours again to the highest degree; so that I 
shook with cold, like one in an ague ; and I went home 
again, filled with the belief that some man or men had 
been on shore there; or, in short, that the island was 
inhabited, and I might be surprised before I was aware. 
And whai course to take for my security, I knew not. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 117 

The confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all 
night; but in the morning I fell asleep and having by 
the amusement of my miid, been, as it were, tired, and 
my spirits\xhausted, I slept very soundly, and awoke 
much* better composed than I* had ever been before. 

Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave 
so large as to bring a door through again, which door, as 
I said, came out beyond where my fortification joined to 
the rock. Upon considering this, therefore, I resolved 
to draw me a second fortification, in the same manner of 
a semicircle, at a distance from my wall, just where I had 
planted a double row of trees about twelve years before, 
of which I made mention. These trees having been planted 
so thick before, they wanted but a few piles to be driven 
between them, that they should be thicker and stronger, 
and my wall would be soon finished. 

So that I had now a double wall ; and my outer wall 
was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and every- 
thing I could think of, to make it strong, having in it 
seven little holes, about as big as I might put my arm out 
at. In the inside of this I thickened my wall to above 
ten feet thick with continual bringing earth out of my 
cave, and laying it at the foot of the wall, and walking 
upon it ; and tlmough the seven holes I contrived to plant 
the muskets, of which I got seven on shore out of the 
ship. These, I say, I planted like my cannon, and fitted 
them into frames that held them like a carriage, that so 
I could fixe all the seven guns in two minutes’ time. This 
wall I was many a weary month a-finishing, and yet 
never thought myself safe till it was done. 

When this was done, I stuck all the ground without 
my wall, for a great way in every direction, as full with 
stakes, or sticks of the osifer-hke wood, which I found so 
apt to grow, as they could well stand ; insomuch, that I 
believe I might set in near twenty thousand of them, 



118 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

leaving a pretty large space between them and '’my wall, 
that I might have room to see an enemy, and they might 
have no shelter from the young trees, if they jittempted 
to approach my outer wall. 

Thus in two years’ time I had a thick grove ; and in 
five or six years’ time I had a wood before my dwelling, 
growing so monstrous thick and strong, that it was indeed 
perfectly impassable ; and no men, of what kind soever, 
would ever imagine that there was anything beyond it, 
much less a habitation. As for the way which I proposed 
to myself to go in and out, for I left no avenue, it was by 
setting two ladders, one to a part of the rock which was 
low, and then broke in, and left room to place another 
ladder upon that; so when the two ladders were taken 
down, no man living could come down to me without 
hurting himself ; and if they had come down, they were 
still on the outside of my outer wall. 

Thus I took all the measures human prudence could 
suggest for my own preservation ; and it will be seen, at 
length, that they were not altogether without just reason, 
though I foresaw nothing at that time more than my mere 
fear suggested to me. 

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of 
my other affairs ; for I had a great concern upon me for 
my little herd of goats. They were not only a present 
supply to me upon every occasion, and began to be sufd- 
cient to me without the expense of powder and shot, but 
also without the fatigue of hunting after the wild ones ; 
and I was loth to lose the advantage of them, and to have 
them all to nurse up over again. 

To this purpose, I could think of but two ways to 
preserve them. One was, to find a convenient place where 
I could dig a cave under ground stnd drive them into it every 
night ; and the other was, to enclose two or three little bits 
of land, remote from one another, and as much concealed 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 119 


as I coulU, where I might keep about haK-a- dozen young 
goats in each place; so that if any disaster happened to 
the flock in general, I might be able to raise them again 
with littl§Hrouble and time. And this, though it would 
require a great deal of time and labour, I thought was 
the more rational design. 

Accordingly I spent some time to find out the most 
retired parts of the island, and I pitched upon one which 
was as private indeed as my heart could wish for. It was 
a little damp piece of ground in the middle of the hollow 
and thick woods, where, as is observed, I almost lost 
myself once before, endeavouring to come back that way 
from the eastern part of the island. Here I found a clear 
piece of land, near three acres, so surrounded with woods, 
that it was almost an enclosure by Hature; at least, it 
did not want near so much labour to make it so as the 
other pieces of ground I had worked so hard at. 

I immediately went to work with this piece of ground, 
and in less than a month’s time I had so fenced it round, 
that my flock or herd, call it which you please, who 
were not so wild now as at first they might be supposed 
to be, were well enough secured in it. So, without any 
farther delay, I removed ten young she-goats and two 
he-goats to this piece. And when they were there, I con- 
tinued to perfect the fence, till I had made it as secure as 
the other, which, however, I did at more leisure, and it 
took me up more time by a great deal. 

All this labour I was at the expense of, purely from 
my apprehensions on the account of the print of a man’s 
foot which I had seen ; for, as yet, I never saw any human 
creature come near the island. And I had now lived two 
years under these uneasinesses, which, indeed, made my 
life much less comfortable than it was before, as may well 
be imagined by any who know what it is to live in the 
constant snare of the fear of man. 



120 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

But to go on. After I had thus secured oxi6 part of 
my little living stock, I went about the whole island, 
searching for another private p&ce to make such another 
deposit ; when, wandering more to the west p€xnt of the 
island than I had ever done yet, and looking out tasea, 
I thought I saw a boat at a great distance. I had found 
a perspective glass or two in one of the seamen’s chests, 
whicli I saved out of our ship, but I had it not about 
me. The boat was so remote, that I could not tell what 
to make of it, though I looked at it till my eyes were 
not able to hold to look any longer. Whether it was a 
boat or not, I do not know ; but as I descended from the 
hill, I could see no more of it, so I gave it over ; only I 
resolved to go no more out without a perspective glass in 
my pocket. 

When I was come down the hill to the end of the 
island, where, indeed, I had never been before, I was pre- 
sently convinced that the seeing the print of a man’s foot 
was not such a strange thing in the island as I imagined. 
And, but that it was a special providence that I was cast 
upon the side of the island where the savages never came, 
I should easily have known that nothing was more frequent 
than for the canoes from the main, when they happened 
to be a little too far out at sea, to shoot over to that side 
of the island for harbour ; likewise, as they often met and 
fought in their canoes, the victors having taken any 
prisoners would bring them over to this shore, where, 
according to their dreadful customs, being all cannibals, 
they would kill and eat them ; of which hereafter. 

When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said 
above, being the S.W. point of the island, I was perfectly 
confounded and amazed; nor is it possible for me to 
express the horror of my mind at seeing the shore spread 
with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones of human bodies ; 
and particularly, I observed a place where there had been 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, m 


a fire m^de, and a circle dug in the earth, like a cockpit, 
where it is supposed the savage wretches had sat down to 
their inhuman feastings hpon the bodies of their fellow- 
creatures.^ . 

I was so astonished with the sight of these things, that 
I entertained no notion of any danger to myself from it 
for a long while. All my apprehensions were buried in 
the thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman brutality, and 
the horror of the degeneracy of human nature, which, 
though I had heard of often, yet I never had so near a 
view of before. In short, I turned away my face from the 
horrid spectacle. I got me up the hill again with all the 
speed I could, and walked on towards my own habitation. 

I had the care of my safety more now upon my hands 
than that of my food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop a 
stick of wood now, for fear the noise I should make should 
be heard; much less would I fire a gun, for the same reason ; 
and, above all, I was intolerably uneasy at making any fire, 
lest the smoke, which is visible at a great distance in the 
day, should betray me; and for this reason I removed 
that part of my business which required fire, such as burn- 
ing of pots and pipes, etc., into my new apartment in the 
woods ; where, after I had been some time, I found, to my 
unspeakable consolation, a mere natural cave in the earth, 
which went in a vast way, and where, I dare say, no 
savage, had he been at the mouth of it, would be so hardy 
as to venture in ; nor, indeed, would any man else, but one 
who, like me, wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat. 

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great 
rock, where, by mere accident I would say (if I did not 
see abundant reason to ascribe all such things now to 
Providence), I was cutting down some thick branches of 
trees to make charcoal ; and before I go on, I must observe 
the reason of my making this charcoal, which was this. 

I was afraid of making a smoke about my habitation, 



im ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


as I said before ; and yet I could not live there without 
baking my bread, cooking my meat, etc. So I contrived 
to burn some wood here, as I hkd seen done in England 
under turf, till it became chark, or dry coal ;^nd then 
putting the fire out, I preserved the coal to carry home, 
and perform the other services which fire was wanting for 
at home, without danger of smoke. 

But this is by-the~bye. While I was cutting down 
some wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick 
branch of low brushwood, or underwood, there was a kind 
of hollow place. I was curious to look into it, and getting 
with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it was pretty 
large ; that is to say, sufficient for me to stand upright in 
it, and perhaps another with me. But I must confess to 
you I made more haste out than I did in when, look- 
ing farther into the place, which was perfectly dark, I 
saw two broad shining eyes of some creature, whether 
devil or man I knew not, which twinkled like two stars, 
the dim light from the cave’s mouth shining directly in, 
and making the reflection. 

But plucking up my spirits as well as I could, I stepped 
forward again, and by the light of a firebrand, holding it 
up a little over my head, I saw lying on the ground a most 
monstrous, frightful, old he-goat, just making his will, as 
we say, and gasping for life ; and dying, indeed, of mere 
old age. 

I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out, and 
he essayed to get up, but was not able to raise himself ; 
and I thought with myself he might even lie there, for 
if he had frightened me so, he would certainly frighten 
any of the savages, if any of them should be so hardy as 
to come in there while he had any life in "him. 

I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to 
look round me when I found the cave was but very small ; 
that is to say, it might be about twelve feet over, but 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, in 

in no Aanner of shape, either round or square, no hands 
having ever been employed in making it but those of 
mere Nature. I observeQ also that there was a place at 
the farther side of it that went in farther, but was so low, 
thais it required me to feeep mpon my hands and knees 
to go into it, and whither I went I knew not ; so having 
no candle, I gave it over for some time, but resolved to 
come again the next day, provided with candles and a 
tinder-box, which I had made of the lock of one of the 
muskets, with some wild-fire in the pan. 

Accordingly the next day I came provided with six 
large candles of my own making, for I made very good 
candles now of goat’s tallow ; and going into this low 
place, I was obliged to creep upon all fours, as I have 
said, almost ten yards ; which, by the way, I thought was 
a venture bold enough, considering that I knew not Jiow 
far it might go, nor what was beyond it. When I was 
got through the straight, I found the roof rose higher up, 
I believe near twenty feet. But never was such a glorious 
sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was, to look round 
the sides and roof of this vault or cave ; the walls reflected 
a hundred thousand lights to me from my two candles. 
What it was in the rock, whether diamonds, or any other 
precious stones, or gold, which I rather supposed it to be, 
I knew not. 

The place I was in was a most delightful cavity or 
grotto of its kind, though perfectly dark. The floor was 
dry and level, and had a sort of small loose gravel upon 
it, so that there was no nauseous or venomous creatui’e 
to be seen ; neither was there any damp or wet on the 
sides or roof. The only difficulty in it was the entrance, 
which, however, as it was a place of security and such 
a retreat as I wanted, I thought that was a convenience ; 
so that I was really rejoiced at the discovery, and re- 
solved, without any delay, to bring some of those things 



lU ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


which I was most anxious about to this place; parti- 
cularly, I resolved to bring hither my magazine of powder, 
and all my spare arms, viz., two fowling-pieces, for I 
had three in aU, and three mushets, for of thdn I had 
eight in all. So I kept at ihy 'castle only five, which 
stood ready-mounted, like pieces of cannon, on my out- 
most fence; and were ready also to take out upon any 
expedition. 

Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I 
opened the barrel of powder which I took out of the 
sea and which had been wet ; and I found that the water 
had penetrated about three or four inches into the 
powder on every side, which caking, and growing hard, 
had preserved the inside like a kernel in a shell ; so that 
I had near sixty pounds of very good powder in the 
centre of the cask. And this was an agreeable discovery 
to me at that time ; so I carried all away thither, never 
keeping above two or three pounds of powder with me 
in my castle, for fear of a surprise of any kind. I also 
carried thither all the lead I had left for bullets. 

The old goat, whom I found expiring, died in the mouth 
of the cave the next day after I made this discovery ; and 
I found it much easier to dig a great hole there, and throw 
him in and cover him with earth, than to drag' him out. 

I was now in my twenty-third year of residence in this 
island, and was so naturalised to the place and to the 
manner of living, that could I have but enjoyed the 
certainty that no savages would come to the place to dis- 
turb me, I could have been content to have capitulated 
for spending the rest of my time there, even to the last 
moment, till I had laid me down and died, like the old 
goat in the cave. I had also arrived at some little diver- 
sions and amusements, which made the time pass more 
pleasantly with me a great deal than it did before. As 
first, I had taught my Poll, as I noted before, to speak ; 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1^5 

he did* it so familiarly, and talked so articulately and 
plain, that it was very pleasant to me ; and he lived with 
me no less than six aftd twenty years. How long he 
might li% afterwards ^ know not, though I know there 
is, ^ belief in the Brazils that they live a hundred 
years. Perhaps poor Poll may be alive there still, calling 
after poor Eobin Crusoe to this day. I wish no English- 
man the ill luck to come there and hear him ; but if he 
did, he would certainly believe it was the devil. My dog 
was a very pleasant and loving companion to me for no 
less than sixteen years of my time, and then died of mere 
old age. As for my cats, they multiplied, as I have 
observed, to that degree, that I was obliged to shoot several 
of them at first to keep them from devouring me and all 
I had ; but at length, when the two old ones I brought 
with me were gone, the others all ran wild into the 
woods, except two or three favourites, which I kept tame, 
and whose young, when they had any, I always drowned; 
and these were part of my family. Besides these, I always 
kept two or three household kids about me, whom I taught 
to feed out of my hand. And I had two more parrots, which 
talked pretty well, and would all call ‘"Eobin Crusoe,” 
but none like my first ; nor, indeed, did I take the pains 
with any of them that I had done with him. I had also 
several tame sea-fowls, whose names I know not, whom I 
caught upon the shore, and cut their wings ; and the little 
stakes which I had planted before my castle wall being 
now grown up to a good thick grove, these fowls all lived 
among these low trees, and bred there, which was very 
agreeable to me ; so that, as I said above, I began to be 
very well contented with the life I led, if it might but 
have been secure from the dread of the savages. 

It was now the month of December, as I said above, 
in my twenty-third year; and this was the particular 
time of my harvest, and req[uired my being pretty much 



1^6 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


abroad in the fields ; when, going out pretty early in the 
morning, even before it was thorougb daylight, I was sur- 
prised with seeing a light of some fire upon the shore, 
at a distance from me of about two miles, towards the end 
of the island, where I had obsertea some savages had been, 
as before. But not on the other side, for to my great 
affliction, the fire was on my side of the island. 

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped 
short within my grove, not daring to go out, lest I might 
be surprised ; and yet I had no more peace within from 
the apprehensions I had that if these savages, in rambling 
over the island, should find my corn standing or cut, or 
any of my works and improvements, they would imme- 
diately conclude that there were people in the place, and 
would then never give over till they had found me out. 
In this extremity I went back directly to my castle, pulled 
up the ladder after me, and made all things without look 
as wild and natural as I could. 

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a 
posture of defence. I loaded all my cannon, as I called 
them, that is to say, my muskets, which were mounted 
upon my new fortification, and all my pistols, and resolved 
to defend myself to the last gasp. In this posture I con- 
tinued about two hours ; but began to be mighty impatient 
for intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to send out. 

After sitting a while longer, and musing what I should 
do in this case, I was not able to bear sitting in ignorance 
any longer ; so setting up my ladder to the side of the hill 
where there was a flat place, and then pulling it up after 
me, I set it up again, and mounted to the top of the hill ; 
then pulling out my perspective-glass, which I had taken 
on purpose, I laid me down flat on the ground, and began 
to look for the place, I presently found there were no 
less than nine* naked savages sitting round a small fire 
they had made, not to warm them, for they had no need 



OEtTBOB SEES THE CAITNIBiriS, 



US ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

of that, the weather being 'extremely hot, but, as I 
supposed, to dress some of their barbarous diet of human 
flesh which they had brought Svith them, whether alive 
or dead, I could not know, p ^ 

They had two canoes with them, which they^ had 
hauled up upon the shore; and as it was the ebb tide, 
they seemed to me to wait for the return of the flood to 
go away again. It is not easy to imagine what confusion 
this sight put me into, especially seeing them come on 
my side of the island, and so near me too. But when I 
observed that their coming must be always with the current 
of the ebb, I began afterwards to be more sedate in my 
mind, being satisfied that I might go abroad with safety 
all the time of the flood tide, if they were not on shore 
before ; and having made this observation, I went abroad 
about my harvest- work with the more composure. 

As I expected, so it proved ; for as soon as the tide 
made to the westward, I saw them all take boat and row, 
or paddle, as we call it, away. I should have observed, 
that for an hour and more before they went off, they went 
to dancing ; and I could easily discern their postures and 
gestures by my glasses. 

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two 
guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols at my girdle, and 
my great sword by my side, without a scabbard, and with 
all the speed I was able to make I went away to the hill 
where I had discovered the first appearance of them. As 
soon as I arrived there, which was not less than two 
hours, for I could not go fast, being so laden with arms as 
I was, I perceived there had been three canoes more of 
savages on that place ; and looking out farther, I saw they 
were aU at sea together, making over for the main. 

This was a dreadful sight to me, especially when, 
going down to the shore, I could see the marks of horror 
which the dismal work they had been about had left 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE IW 

behind viz., the Mood, the bones, and part of the flesh 
of human bodies, eaten and devoured by those wretches 
with merriment and sport. I was so filled with indigna- 
tion at th% sight, that began now to premeditate the 
destiruction of the next t^at I ^aw there, let them be who 
or how many soever. 

However, I wore out a year and three months more 
before I ever saw any more of the savages, and then I 
found them again, as I shall soon observe. It is true they 
might have been there once or twice, but either they made 
no stay, or at least I did not hear them ; but in the month 
of May, as near as I could calculate, and in my four and 
twentieth year, I had a very strange encounter with them ; 
of which in its place. 

The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or 
sixteen months’ interval, was very great. I slept unquiet, 
dreamed always frightful dreams, and often started out of 
my sleep in the night. In the day great troubles over- 
whelmed my mind, and in the night I dreamed often of 
killing the savages, and of the reasons why I might justify 
the doing of it. But, to waive all this for a while, it was 
in the middle of May, on the sixteenth day, I think, as 
well as my poor wooden calendar would reckon, for I 
marked all upon the post still ; I say, it was the sixteenth 
of May that it blew a very great storm of wind all day, 
with a great deal of lightning and thunder, and a very 
foul night it was after it. I know not what was the 
particular occasion of it, but as I was reading in the Bible, 
and taken up with very serious thoughts about my present 
condition, I was surprised with a noise of a gun, as I 
thought, fired at sea. 

This was, ‘ to be sure, a surprise of a quite different 
nature from any I had met with before ; for the notions 
this put into my thoughts were quite of another kind. I 
started up in the greatest haste imaginable, and, in a trice, 



ISO ADVEJ^TURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


clapped my ladder to the middle place of the rock, and 
pulled it after me. Mounting it the second time, I got to 
the top of the hill the very moment that a flash of fire 
bade me listen for a second gun, w^ch accordingif , in about 
half a minute, I heard ; apd, by the sound, knew that it 
was from that part of the sea where I was driven down 
the current in my boat. 

I immediately considered that this must be some ship 
in distress, and that they had some comrade, or some 
other ship in company, and fired these guns for signals of 
distress, and to obtain help. I had this presence of mind, 
at that minute, as to think that though I could not help 
them, it may be they might help me ; so I brought to- 
gether all the dry wood I could get at hand, and, making 
a good handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the hill. The 
wood was dry, and blazed freely ; and though the wind 
blew very hard, yet it burnt fairly out ; so that I was 
certain, if there was any such thing as a ship, they must 
needs see it, and no doubt they did ; for as soon as ever 
my fire blazed up I heard another gun, and after that 
several others, all from the same quarter. I plied my 
fire all niglit long till day broke ; and when it was broad 
day, and the air cleared up, I saw something at a great 
distance at sea, full east of the island, whether a sail or a 
hull I could not distinguish, no, not with my glasses, the 
distance was so great, and the weather still something 
hazy also ; at least it was so out at sea. 

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon per- 
ceived that it did not move; so I presently concluded that 
it was a ship at an anchor. And being eager, you may be 
sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in my hand and ran 
toward the south side of the island, to the rocks where I 
had formerly been carried away with the current; and 
getting up there, the weather by this time being perfectly 
clear, I could plainly see, to my great sorrow, the wreck 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ISI 


of a sH{), cast away in the night upon those concealed 
rocks which I found when I was out in my boat; and 
which rocks, as they checked the violence of the stream, 
and made^ kind of co}\nter-stream or eddy, were the 
occasion of my recovering ffom»the most desperate, hope- 
less condition that ever I had been in in all my life. 

Thus, what is one man’s safety is another man’s destruc- 
tion ; for it seems these men, whoever they were, being out 
of their knowledge, and the rocks being wholly imder 
water, had been driven upon them in the night, the wind 
blowing hard at E. and E.KE. Had they seen the island, 
as I must necessarily suppose they did not, they must, as 
I thought, have endeavoured to have saved themselves on 
shore by the help of their boat ; but their firing of guns 
for help, especially when they saw, as I imagined, my 
fire, filled me with many thoughts. First, I imagined that 
upon seeing my light, they might have put themselves 
into their boat, and have endeavoured to make the shore ; 
but that the sea running very high, they might have been 
cast away. Other times I imagined that they might have 
lost their boat before, as might be the case many ways ; 
as, particularly, by the breaking of the sea upon their sMp, 
which many times obliges men to stave, or take in pieces 
their boat, and sometimes to throw it overboard with their 
own hands. Other times I imagined they had some other 
ship or ships in company, who, upon the signals of distress 
they had made, had taken them up and carried them off. 
Other whiles I fancied they were all gone off to sea in 
their boat, and being hurried away by the current that I 
had been formerly in, were carried out into the great 
ocean, where there was nothing but misery and perishing ; 
and that, perhaps, they might by this time think of 
starving, and of being in a condition to eat one another. 

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to ventui'e 
out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might 



1S2 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


find something on board that might be useful’ to me. 
But that did not altogether press me so much as the 
possibility that there might be^yet some living creature 
on board, whose life I might not /only save, bu^might, by 
saving that life, comfort my own! to the last degree, 

Under the power of this impression, I hastened back 
to my castle, prepared everything for my voyage, took a 
quantity of bread, a great pot for fresh water, a compass 
to steer by, a bottle of mm (for I had still a great deal of 
that left), and a basket full of raisins. And thus, loading 
myself with everything necessaiy, I went down to my 
boat, baled the water out of her, and got her afloat, loaded 
all my cargo in her and then went home again for more- 
My second cargo was a great bag full of rice, the 
umbrella to set up over my head for shade, another 
large pot full of fresh water, and about two dozen of my 
small loaves, or barley-cakes, more than before, with a 
bottle of goat’s milk and a cheese ; all which, with great 
labour and sweat, I brought to my boat, and praying 
to Ged to direct my voyage, I put out. Rowing, or 
paddling the canoe along the shore, I came at last to the 
utmost point of the island on that side, viz., hT.E. And 
now I was to launch out into the ocean, and either to 
venture or not to venture. I looked on the rapid currents 
which ran constantly on both sides of the island at a 
distance, and which were very terrible to me, from the 
remembrance of the hazard I had been in before, and my 
heart began to fail me ; for I foresaw that if I was driven 
into either of those currents, I should be carried a vast 
way out to sea, and perhaps out of my reach, or sight of 
the island again; and that then, as my boat was but 
small, if any little gale of wind should rise, I should be 
inevitably lost. 

These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began to 
give over my enterprise ; and having hauled my boat into 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 133 


a little '*creek on the shore, I stepped out, and sate me 
down upon a little rising bit of ground, very pensive and 
anxious, between fear shid desire, about my voyage ; 
when, as was musing' I could perceive that the tide 
was ^turned, and the flood come on; upon which my 
going was for so many hours impracticable. Upon this, 
presently it occurred to me that I should go up to the 
highest piece of ground I could find and observe, if I 
could, how the sets of the tide, or currents, lay when the 
flood came in, that I might judge whether, if I was driven 
one way out, I might not expect to be driven another 
way home, with the same rapidity of the currents. This 
thought was no sooner in my head but I cast my eye upon 
a little hill, which sufldciently overlooked the sea both 
ways, and from whence I had a clear view of the currents, 
or sets of the tide, and which way I was to guide myself 
in my return. Here I found, that as the current of the 
ebb set out close by the south point of the island, so the 
current of the flood set in close by the shore of the north 
side; and that I had nothing to do but to keep to the 
north of the island in my return, and I should do well 
enough. 

Encouraged with this observation, I resolved the next 
morning to set out with the first of the tide, and reposing 
myself for the night in the canoe, under the great watch- 
coat I mentioned, I launched out. I made first a little 
out to sea full north, till I began to feel the benefit of the 
current* which set eastward, and which carried me at a 
great rate, and yet did not so hurry me as the southern 
side current had done before, and so as to take from 
me all government of the boat; but having a strong 
steerage with my paddle, I went at a great rate directly 
for the wreck, and in less than two hours I came up 
to it. 

It was a dismal sight to look at The ship, which, by its 



1S4 adventures of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

building, was Spanish, was stuck fast, jammed in l)etween 
two rocks. AU the stem and quarter of her was beaten 
to pieces with the sea ; and as her forecastle, which stuck 
in the rocks, had run on with gre^t violence, hefmainmast 
and foremast were brought by txie board ; that is to'^ay, 
broken short off; but her bowsprit was sound, and the 
head and bow appeared firm. When I came close to her 
a dog appeared upon her, who, seeing me coming, yelped 
and cried ; and as soon as I called him, jumped into the 
sea to come to me, and I took him into the boat, but found 
him almost dead for hunger and thirst. I gave him a 
cake of my bread, and he ate it like a ravenous wolf that 
had been starving a fortnight in the snow. I then gave 
the poor creature some fresh water, with which, if I would 
have let him, he would have burst himself. 

After this I went on board ; but the first sight I met 
with was two men drowned in the cook-room, or forecastle 
of the ship, with their arms fast about one another. I con- 
cluded, as is indeed probable, that when the ship struck, 
it being in a storm, the sea broke so high and so con- 
tinually over her, that the men were not able to bear it 
and were strangled with the constant rushing in of the 
water, as much as if they had been under water. Besides 
the dog, there was nothing left in the ship that had life ; 
nor any goods that I could see, but what were spoiled by 
the water. There were some casks of liquor, whether 
wine or brandy I knew not, which lay lower in the hold, 
and which, the water being ebbed out, I could sfee ; but 
they were too big to meddle with. I saw several chests, 
which I believed belonged to some of the seamen ; and I 
got two of them into the boat, without examining what 
was in them. 

Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the forepart 
broken oflf, I am persuaded I might have made a good 
voyage. She had, no doubt, a great treasure in her, but 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 135 


of no at that time, to anybody ; and what became of 
the rest of her people, I then knew not. 

I found, besides these lihests, a little cask full of liquor, 
of about ipwenty gallons^^ which I got into my boat with 
mu(?h difficulty. There '#ere several muskets in a cabin, 
and a great powder-horn, with about four pounds of 
powder in it. As for the muskets, I had no occasion for 
them, so I left them, but took the powder-horn. I took a 
fire-shovel and tongs, which I wanted extremely ; as also 
two little brass kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate, 
and a gridiron. And with this cargo, and the dog, I 
came away, the tide beginning to make home again ; and 
the same evening, about an hour within night, I reached 
the island again, weary and fatigued to the last degree. 

I reposed that night in the boat ; and in the morning 
I resolved to harbour what I had got in my new cave, 
not to carry it home to my castle. After refresMng myself, 
I got aH my cargo on shore, and began to examine the 
particulars. The cask of liquor I found to be a kind of 
rum, but not such as we had at the Brazils, and, in a 
word, not at all good. But when I came to open the 
chests, I found several things of great use to me. For 
example, I found in one a fine case of bottles, of an extra- 
ordinary kind, and iGdled with cordial waters, fine, and 
very good ; the bottles held about three pints each, and 
were tipped with silver. I found two pots of sweetmeats, 
so fastened also on top, that the salt water had not hurt 
them ; and two more of the same, which the water had 
spoiled. I found some very good shirts, which were very 
welcome to me; and about a dozen and a half of linen 
white handkerchiefs and coloured neckcloths. The former 
were also very welcome, being exceeding refreshing to 
wipe my face in a hot day. Besides this, when I came 
to the till in the chest, I found there three great bags 
of pieces of eight, which held about eleven hundred 



186 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


pieces in all; and in one of them, wrapped tip in®a paper, 
six doubloons of gold, and some small bars or wedges of 
gold. I suppose they might all ^i^eigh near a pound. 

The other chest I found hai^ some clothed in it, but 
of little value ; but by the circ^amstances, it must have 
belonged to the gunner’s mate; though there was no 
powder in it, but about two pounds of fine glazed powder, 
in three small flasks, kept, I suppose, for charging their 
fowling-pieces on occasion. Upon the whole, I got very 
little by this voyage that was of any use to me ; for as to 
the money, I had no manner of occasion for it ; ’twas to 
me as the dirt under my feet ; and I would have given it 
all for three or four pair of English shoes and stockings, 
which were things I greatly wanted, but had not had on 
my feet now for many years. I had indeed got two 
pair of shoes now, which I took off the feet of the two 
drowned men whom I saw in the wreck, and I found 
two pair more in one of the chests, which were very 
welcome to me ; but they were not like our English shoes, 
either for ease or service, being rather what we call pumps 
than shoes. I found in this seaman’s chest about fifty 
pieces of eight in royals, but no gold. I suppose this 
belonged to a poorer man than the other, which seemed 
to belong to some officer. 

However, I lugged this money home to my cave, and 
laid it up, as I had done that before which I brought 
from our own ship ; but it was great pity, as I said, that 
the other part of this ship had not come to my share, for 
I am satisfied I might have loaded my canoe several times 
over with money, which, if I had ever escaped to England, 
would have lain here safe enough till I might have come 
again and fetched it. 

Having now brought all my things on shore, and 
secured them, I went back to my boat, and rowed or 
paddled her along the shore to her old harbour, where I 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 137 


laid her and made the best of my way to my old 
habitation, where I found everything safe and quiet. So 
I began to repose myself*? live after my old fashion, and 
take care o-’^ my family a'ffairs ; and, for a while, I lived 
easy enough, only that I tfm more vigilant than I used 
to be, looked out oftener, and did not go abroad so much. 
If at any time I did stir with any freedom, it was 
always to the east part of the island, where I was pretty 
well satisfied the savages never came, and where I could 
go without so many precautions, and such a load of arms 
and ammunition as I always carried with me if I went 
the other way. 

I lived in this condition near two years more ; but my 
unlucky head, that was always to let me know it was 
born to make my body miserable, was all this two years 
filled with projects and designs, how, if it were possible, 
I might get away from this island ; for sometimes I was 
for making another voyage to the wreck, though my 
reasons told me that there was nothing left there worth 
the hazard of my voyage: sometimes for a ramble one 
way, sometimes another; and I believe verily, if I had 
had the boat that I went from Sallee in, I should have 
ventured to sea, bound anywhere, I knew not w^hither. 

About a year and a half after, I was surprised one 
morning early with seeing no less than five canoes all on 
shore together on my side of the island, and the people who 
belonged to them all landed, and out of my sight. The 
number of them upset all my measures; for seeing so 
many, and knowing that they always came four, or six:, or 
sometimes more, in a boat, I could not tell what to think 
of it, or how to take my measures to attack twenty or 
thirty men single-handed ; so I lay still in my castle, per- 
plexed and discomforted. However, I put myself into all 
the same pastures for an attack that I had formerly pro- 
vided, and was just as ready for action if anything had 



138 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


presented. Having waited a good wHle, listening'' to hear i 6 
they made any noise, at length, being very impatient, I set 
my guns at the foot of my ladd(br, and clambered up to the 
top of the hill, by my two stages, as usual ; <*3tanding so, 
however, that my head did hot^ appear above the MU, so 
that tliey could not perceive me by any means. Here I 
observed, by the help of my perspective glass, that they 
were no less than thirty in number, that they had a fire 
kindled, and that they had had meat dressed. How they 
had cooked it, that I knew not, or what it was ; but they 
were all dancing, in I know not how many barbarous 
gestures and figures, their own way, round the fire. 

While I was thus looking on them, I perceived by my 
perspective two miserable wretches dragged from the boats, 
where, it seems, they were laid by, and were now brought 
out for the slaughter. I perceived one of them imme- 
diately fall, being knocked down, I suppose, with a club 
or wooden sword, for that was their way, while the other 
victim was left standing by himself, till they should be 
ready for Mm. In that very moment this poor wretch 
seeing himseK a little at liberty, Nature inspired him with 
hopes of life, and he started away from them, and ran with 
incredible swiftness along the sands directly towards me, I 
mean towards that part of the coast where my habitation was. 

I was dreadfully frightened, that I must acknowledgCj 
when I perceived Mm to run my way, and especially when, 
as I thought, I saw Mm pursued by the whole body ; and 
now I expected that part of my dream was coming to pass, 
and that he would certainly take shelter in my grove ; but 
I could not depend, by any means, upon my dream for the 
rest of it, viz., that the other savages would not pursue him 
tMther, and find Mm there. However, I kept my station, 
and my spirits began to recover when I found that there 
were not above three men who followed Mm ; and still 
more was I encouraged when I found that he outstripped 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 189 

them exceedingly in running, and gained ground of them; 
so that if he could hut hold it for half-an-hour, I saw easily 
he would fairly get away flrom them all 

There \ms between t\em and my castle the creek, 
which I mentioned often et> tlie first part of my story, when 
I landed my cargoes out of the ship ; and this I saw plainly 
he must necessarily swim over, or the poor wretch would 
be taken there. - But when the savage escaping came 
thither he made nothing of it, though the tide was then 
up ; but plunging in, swam through in about thirty strokes 
or thereabouts, landed, and ran on with exceeding strength 
and swiftness. When the three persons came to the creek, 
I found that two of them could swim, but the third could 
not, and that, standing on the other side, he looked at the 
other, but went no farther, and soon after went softly back, 
which, as it happened, was very well for him in the main. 

I observed that the two who swam were yet more than 
twice as long swimming over the creek as the fellow was 
who fled from them. It came now very warmly upon my 
thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now was my time 
to get me a servant, and perhaps a companion or assistant, 
and that I was called plainly by Providence to save this 
poor creature’s life. 

I immediately ran down the ladders with all possible 
expedition, fetched my two guns, for they were both 
at the foot of the ladders, and getting up again, with the 
same haste, to the top of the hill, I crossed toward the 
sea, and having a very short cut, and all down hill, 
clapped myself in the way between the pursuers and 
the pursued, hallooing aloud to him who fled, and he 
looking back, was at first perhaps as much frightened 
at me as at them. I beckoned with my hand to him 
to come back ; and, in the meantime, I slowly advanced 
towards the two that followed ; then rushing at once upon 
the foremost, I knocked him down with the stock of my 





ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 141 


piece, twas loth to fire, because I would not have the 
rest hear ; though, at that distance, it would not have been 
easily heard, and being out of sight of the smoke too, they 
would not b^ve easily known what to make of it. Having 
knocl^ed this fellow down, ^ the other who pursued with him 
stopped, as if he had been frightened, and I advanced apace 
towards him ; but as I came nearer, I perceived presently 
that he had a bow and arrow, and was fitting it to shoot at 
me ; so I was then necessitated to shoot at him first, which 
I did, and killed him at the first shot. 

The poor savage who fled, but had stopped, though he 
saw both his enemies fallen and killed, as he thought, yet 
was so frightened with the fire and noise of my piece, that 
he stood stock-still, and neither came forward or went 
backward, though he seemed rather inclined to fly still, 
than to come on. I hallooed again to him, and made signs 
to come forward, which he easily understood, and came a 
little way, then stopped again, and then a little farther, 
and stopped again; and I could then perceive that he 
stood trembling, as if he had been taken prisoner, and was 
about to be killed, as his two enemies had been. I beckoned 
him again to come to me, and gave him all the signs of 
encouragement that I could think of; he came nearer 
and nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in 
token of acknowledgment for my saving his life. I smiled 
at him, and looked pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come 
still nearer. At length he came close to me, and then he 
llneeled down again, kissed the ground, and laid his head 
upon the ground, and taking me by the foot, set my foot 
upon his head. This, it seems, was in token of swearing 
to be my slave for ever. I took him up, and made much 
of him, and encouraged him all I could. 

But there was more work to do yet, for I perceived 
the savage whom I knocked down was not MUed, but 
stunned with the blow, and began to come to himself ; so 



142 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


I pointed to Mm, and showing him the savage, that he was 
not dead, upon tMs he spoke some words to me ; and though 
I could not understand them, ^ yet I thought they were 
pleasant to hear ; for they weretthe first sounds of a man’s 
voice that I had heard, my pwn ejpcepted, for above twenty- 
five years. But there was no time for such reflections now. 
The savage who was knocked down recovered himself so 
far as to sit up upon the ground, and I perceived that my 
savage began to be afraid ; but when I saw that, I pre- 
sented my other piece at the man, as if I would shoot him. 
Upon tHs my savage, for so I call him now, made a motion 
to me to lend Mm my sword, wMch hung naked in a belt 
by my side ; so I did. He no sooner had it but he runs 
to Ms enemy, and, at one blow, cut off Ms head as cleverly, 
no executioner could have done it sooner or better ; wMch 
I thought very strange for one who, I had reason to believe, 
never saw a sword in Ms life before, except their own 
wooden swords. However, it seems, as I learned after- 
wards, they make their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, 
and the wood is so hard, that they will cut off heads even 
with them, ay, and arms, and that at one blow too. When 
he had done this, he comes laugMng to me in sign of 
triumph, and brought me the sword again, and with abund- 
ance of gestures, which I did not understand, laid it down, 
with the head of the savage that he had killed, just before me. 
But that wMch astonished him most, was to know how 
I had killed the other Indian so far off and pointing to Mm 
he made signs to me to let him go to Mm ; so I bade him 
go, as well as I could. When he came to Mm, he stood 
like one amazed looking at Mm, turned him first on one 
side then on t’other, and looked at the wound the bullet had 
made, wMch, it seems, was just in his breast, where it had 
made a hole, and no great quantity of blood had followed ; 
T)ut he had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead. He 
took up his bow and arrows, and came back ; so I turned 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

to go aw8>y, and beckoned to Mm to follow me, making 
signs to Mm that more might come after them. 

Upon tMs he signed to * me that he should bury them 
with sand, that they might/not be seen by the rest if they 
followed ; and so I made sigqs a^ain to him to do so. He 
fell to work, and in an insWt he had scraped a hole in 
the sand with Ms hands big enough to bury the first in, 
and then dragged Mm into it, and covered him, and did so 
also by the other. I believe he had buried them both in 
a quarter of an hour. Then calling him away, I carried 
Mm, not to my castle, but quite away to my cave, on the 
farther part of the island; so I did not let my dream 
come to pass in that part, viz., that he came into my grove 
for shelter. 

Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat, 
and a draught of water, which I found he was indeed in 
great distress for, by his running; and having refreshed 
him, I made signs for Mm to lie down and sleep, 
pointing to a place where I had laid a great parcel of rice- 
straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep upon 
myself sometimes; so the poor creature laid down, and 
went to sleep. 

He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well 
made, with straight strong limbs, not too large, t^, and 
welUshaped, and, as I reckon, about twenty-six years of 
age. He had a very good countenance, not a fierce and 
surly aspect, but seemed to have something very manly in 
his face ; and yet he had all the sweetness and softness of 
a European in his countenance too, especially when he 
smiled. His hair was long and black, not curled like 
wool; Ms forehead very high and large; and a great 
vivacity and sparkling sharpness in Ms eyes. The colour 
of his skin was not quite black, but very tawny ; and yet 
not of an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny as the Brazilians 
and other natives of America are, but of a bright kind of 



144 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

a dun olive colour, that had in it something very agreeable, 
though not very easy to describe. His face was round and 
plump ; his nose small, not flat like the negroes ; a very 
good mouth, thin lips, and hit fine teeth ^11 set, and 
white as ivory. 

After he had slumbered, rather than slept, about half- 
an-hour, he awoke again, and came out of the cave to me, 
for I had been milking my goats, which I had in the 
enclosure just by. When he espied me, he came running 
to me, laying himself down upon the ground, with all the 
possible signs of a humble, thankful disposition, making 
many antic gestures to show it. At last he laid his head 
flat upon the ground, close to my foot, and set my other 
foot upon his head, as he had done before, and after this 
made all the signs to me of subjection, servitude, and sub- 
mission imaginable, to let me know how he would serve 
me as long as he lived. I understood him in many things, 
and let him know I was very well pleased with him. In a 
little time I began to speak to him, and teach him to speak 
to me ; and, first, I made him to know his name should be 
Friday, which was the day I saved his life. I called him so 
for the memory of the time. I Ukewiso taught him to say 
Master, and then let him know that was to be my name. 
I likewise taught him to say Yes and JSTo, and to know the 
meaning of them. I gave him some milk in an earthen 
pot, and let him see me drink it before him, and sop my 
bread in it ; and I gave him a cake of bread to do the like, 
which he quickly complied with, and made signs that it 
was very good for him. 

I kept there with him all that night ; but as soon as 
it was day, I beckoned to him to come with me, and let 
him know I would give him some clothes ; at which he 
seemed very glad, for he was stark naked. As we went 
by the place where he had buried the two men, he pointed 
exactly to the place, and showed me the marks that he had 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 145 

made to "‘find them again, making signs to me that we 
should dig them up again, and eat them. At this I 
appeared very angry, expressed my abhorrence of it, and 
beckoned w^jh my hand to him to come away j which he 
did i^nmediately, with grejat^sul^mission. I then led him 
up to the top of the hill, to see if his enemies were gone • 
and pulling out my glass, I looked, and saw plainly the 
place where they had been, but no appearance of them or 
of their canoes ; so that it was plain that they were gone, 
and had left their two comrades behind them, without any 
search after them. 

I was not content with this discovery, but having 
now more courage, and consequently more curiosity, I 
took my man Friday with me, giving him the sword in 
his hand, with the bow and arrows at his back, which I 
found he could use very dexterously, making him carry 
one gun for me, and I two for myself, and away we 
marched to the place where these creatures had been ; for 
I had a mind now to get some fuller intelligence of them. 
When I came to the place, my very blood ran chill in my 
veins, and my heart sank within me, at the horror of the 
spectacle. 

I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh, 
and whatever remained, and lay them together on a heap, 
and make a great fire upon it, and burn them all to ashes. 
I found Friday had still a hankering after some of the 
flesh, and was still a cannibal in his nature; but I discovered 
so much abhorrence at the very thoughts of it, and at the 
least appearance of it, that he durst not discover it ; for I 
had, by some means, let him know that I would kill him 
if he offered it. 

When we had done this we came back to our castle, 
and there I fell to work for my man Friday ; and, first of 
all, I gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I had out of 
the poor gunner’s chest I mentioned, and which I found 



146 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


in the wreck; and which, with a little alteration, fitted 
Mm very well. Then I made him a jerkin of goat's-skin, 
as well as my skill would allow, and I was now grown a 
tolerable good tailor ; and I gave him a cap, w^ich I made 
of a hare-skin, very convenient and fashionable en<jugh ; 
and thus he was clothed for the present tolerably well, and 
was mighty well pleased to see himself almost as well 
clothed as Ms master. It is true he went awkwardly 
in these things at first; wearing the drawers was very 
awkward to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat galled 
Ms shoulders, and the inside of Ms arms; but a Uttle 
easing them where he complained they hurt Mm, and 
using himself to them, at length he took to them very 
well. 

The next day after I came home to my hutch with him, 
I began to consider where I should lodge him. And that 
I might do well for him, and yet be perfectly easy myself, I 
made a little tent for Mm in the vacant place between my 
two fortifications, in the inside of the last and in the out- 
side of the first. As there was a door or entrance there 
into my cave, I made a formal framed door-case, and a 
door to it of boards, and set it up in the passage, a little 
within the entrance ; and causing the door to open on the 
inside, I barred it up in the night, taking in my ladders 
too, so that Friday could no way come at me in the inside 
of my innermost wall without making so much noise in 
getting over, that it must needs waken me ; for my first 
wall had now a complete roof over it of long poles, covering 
all my tent, and leaning up to the side of the hill, which 
was again laid across with smaller sticks instead of lathsj* 
and then thatched over a great tMckness with the rice- 
straw, which was strong, like reeds. At the hole or 
place wMch was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had 
placed a kind of trap-door, which, if it had been attempted 
on the outside, would not have opened at all, but would 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 147 

have fallen down, and made a great noise, and as to 
weapons, I took them all into my side every night. 

But I needed none oi all tMs precaution ; for never 
man had ^ more faithfici, loving, sincere servant than 
Friday was to me ; without passions, sullenness, or designs, 
his very affections were tied to me, like those of a child to 
a father; and I dare say he would have sacrificed his 
life for the saving of mine, upon any occasion whatsoever. 
The many testimonies he gave me of this put it out of 
doubt, and soon convinced me that I needed to use no 
precautions as to my safety on his account. 

But to return to my new companion. I was greatly 
delighted with him, and made it my business to teach him 
everything that was proper to make him useful, handy, and 
helpful; but especially to make him speak, and under- 
stand me when I spoke. He was the aptest scholar that 
ever was; and particularly was so merry, so constantly 
diligent, and so pleased when he could but understand 
me, or make me understand him, that it was very pleasant 
to me to talk to him. My life now began to be so easy, 
that I began to say to myself, that could I but have 
been safe from more savages, I cared not if I was never to 
remove from the place while I lived. 

After I had been two or three days returned to my 
castle, I took Friday out with me one morning to the woods. 
I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out of my own 
flock, and bring it home and dress it; but as I was 
going, I saw a she-goat lying down in the shade, and two 
young kids sitting by her. I caught hold of Friday. 

Hold,” says I, “ stand still,” and made signs to him not 
to stir. Immediately I presented my piece, shot and killed 
one of the kids. The poor creature, who had, at a distance 
indeed, seen me kill the savage, his enemy, but did not 
know, nor could imagine, how it was done, was sensibly 
surprised, trembled and shook, and looked so amazed, that 



148 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


I thought he would have sunk down. He did not see the 
kid I had shot at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped 
up his waistcoat to feel if he ]vas not wounded, and, as I 
found presently, thought I was resolved to kilVhim ; for he 
came and knelt down to me, embracing my knees*, said 
a great many things I did not understand ; but I could 
easily see that the meaning was to pray me not to kill him. 

I soon found a way to convince him that I would do 
him no harm, and taking him up by the hand, laughed 
at him, and pointing to the kid which I had killed, beckoned 
to him to run and fetch it, which he did ; and while he 
was wondering, and looking to see how the creature was 
killed, I loaded my gun again. By-and-by I saw a 
great fowl, like a hawk, sit upon a tree, within shot ; so, 
to let Friday understand a little what I would do, I called 
him to me again, pointing at the fowl, which was indeed 
a parrot, though I thought it had been a hawk; I say, 
pointing to the parrot and to my gun, and to the ground 
under the parrot, to let him see I would make it fall, I 
made him understand that I would shoot and kill that 
bird. Accordingly I fired, and bade him look, and 
immediately he saw the parrot fall. He stood like one 
frightened again, notwithstanding all I had said to him ; and 
I found he was the more amazed, because he did not see 
me put anything into the gun, but thought that there 
must be some wonderful fund of death and destruction in 
that thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, or anything near 
or far off; and the astonishment this created in him was 
such as could not wear off for a long time. I believe, 
if I would have let him, he would have worshipped me 
and my gun. As for the gun itself, he would not so much 
as touch it for several days after, but would speak to it, 
and talk to it, as if it had answered him, when he was by 
himself; which, as I afterwards learned of him, was to 
desire it not to kid him. 



adventures of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 149 

Well/ after Ms astonishment was a little over at tMs, 
I pointed to Mm to run and fetch the bird I had shot, 
which he did, but stayed mme time ; for the parrot, not 
being quite .^ead, was fluttered a good way off from the 
places where she fell H 9 wever, he found her, took her 
up, and brought her to me ; and as I had perceived Ms 
ignorance about the gun before, I took tMs advantage to 
charge the gun again, and not let him see me do it, that I 
might be ready for any other mark that might present itself. 
But nothing more offered at that time, so I brought home 
the kid, and the same evening I took the skin off, and cut 
it out as well as I could ; and having a pot for that purpose, 
I boiled or stewed some of the flesh, and made some 
very good broth. After I had begun to eat some, I gave 
some to my man, who seemed very glad of it, and liked 
it very well ; but that wMch was strangest to him, was to 
see me eat salt with it. He made a sign to me that the 
salt was not good to eat, and putting a little into Ms own 
mouth, he would spit and sputter at it, wasMng his mouth 
with fresh water after it. On the other hand, I took some 
meat in my mouth without salt, and pretended to spit 
and sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at the 
salt. But it would not do ; he would never care for salt 
with Ms meat or in his broth ; at least, not for a great 
while, and then but a very little. 

The next day I set him to work to beating some com 
out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I observed 
before ; and he soon understood how to do it as well as I, 
especially after he had seen what the meaning of it was, 
and that it was to make bread of. After that I let him 
see me make my bread, and bake it too, and in a little 
time Friday was able to do all the work for me, as well as 
I could do it myself. 

I began now to- consider that, having two mouths to 
feed instead of one, I must provide more ground for my 



160 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn than I used 
to do, so I marked out a larger piece of land, and began 
the fence in the same manner eTs before, in which Friday 
not only worked very willingly' and very har<5, but did it 
very cheerfully, I told«‘hini what it was for; that* it 
was for corn to make more bread, because he was now 
with me, and that I might have enough for him and 
myself too. He appeared very sensible of that part, and 
let me know that he thought I had much more labour 
upon me on his account, than I had for myself ; and that 
he would work the harder for me, if I would tell him what 
to do. 

This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in 
this place. Friday began to talk pretty well, and under- 
stand the names of almost everything I had occasion to 
call for, and of every place I had to send him to, so that, 
in short, I began now to have some use for my tongue 
again, which, indeed, I had very little occasion for before, 
that is to say, about speech. Besides the pleasure of 
talking to him, I had a singular satisfaction in the fellow 
himself. His simple, unfeigned honesty appeared to me 
more and more every day, and I began really to love the 
creature ; and, on his side, I believe he loved me more 
than it was possible for him ever to have loved anything 
before. 

I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering 
inclination to his own country again ; and having taught 
him English so well that he could answer me almost any 
questions, I asked him whether the nation that he belonged 
to never conquered in battle ? At which he smiled, and 
said, ‘‘Yes, yes, we always fight the better;” that is, he 
meant, always get the better in fight ; and so we began 
the following discourse: “You always fight the better,” 
said I. “How came you to be taken prisoner then, 
Friday?” 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 151 


Fridwy. My nation beat mncb for all that. 

Master. How beat ? If yonr nation beat them, how 
came yon to be taken 1 ^ 

Friday imTh&j more many than my nation in the place 
'vs4iei;e me was ; they tal^e two, three, and me. My 
nation overheat them in the yonder place, where me no 
was ; there my nation take one, two, great thousand. 

Master. But why did not your side recover you from 
the hands of your enemies then ? 

Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and make 
go in the canoe ; my nation have no canoe that time. 

Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation do 
with the men they take ? Do they carry them away and 
eat them, as these did ? 

Friday. Yes, my nation eats mans too ; eat all up. 

Master. Where do they carry them ? 

Friday. Go to other place, where they think. 

Master. Do they come hither ? 

Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither ; come other else 
place. 

Master, Have you been here with them ? 

Friday. Yes, I been here. {Points to the N. W. side of 
the island which, it seems, was their side.) 

By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly 
been among the savages who used to come on shore on 
the farther part of the island, on the same man-eating 
occasions that he was now brought for; and, some time 
after, when I took the courage to carry him to that side, 
being the same I formerly mentioned, he presently knew 
the place, and told me he was there once when they eat 
up twenty men, two women, and one child. He could not 
teU twenty in English, but he numbered them by laying 
so many stones in a row, and pointing to me to tell them 
over. 

I have told this passage, because it introduces what 



152 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


follows. After I had had this discourse with him, I 
asked him how far it was from our island to the shore, and 
whether the canoes were not o%n lost. He told me there 
was no danger, that no canoes were ever lo§t ; but that, 
after a little way out to thp sea, there was a current ^ndf a 
wind, always one way in the morning, the other in the 
afternoon. 

This I understood to be no more tliau the sets of the 
tide, as going out or coming in ; but I afterwards under- 
stood it was occasioned by the great draught and reflux of 
the mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth of the gulf of 
which river, as I found afterwards, our island lay ; and this 
land which I perceived to the W. and H.W. was the great 
island Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the 
river. I asked Friday a thousand questions about the 
country, the inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and what 
nations were near. He told me all he knew, with the 
greatest openness imaginable. I asked him the names of 
the several nations of his sort of people, but could get no 
other name than Caribs ; from whence I easily understood 
that these were the Caribbees, which our maps place on 
the part of America which reaches from the mouth of the 
river Oroonoko to Guiana, and onwards to St. Martha. 
He told me that up a great way beyond the moon, that 
was, beyond the setting of the moon, which must be W. 
from their country, there dwelt white-bearded men, like 
me, and pointed to my great whiskers, which I mentioned 
before ; and that they had killed much mans, that was his 
word ; by all which I understood he meant the Spaniards, 
whose cruelties in America had been spread over the whole 
countries, and were remembered by all the nations from 
father to son. 

I inquired if he could tell me how I might come 
from this island and get among those white men. He 
told me, “ Yes* yes, I might go in two canoe.” I could 



ADVENTUBES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 153 


not ■understand what he meant, or make him describe to 
me what he meant by two canoe; till at last, with great 
difficulty, I found he meant it must be in a large great 
boat, as big two canoes/ 

*T}^s part of Friday’s ^dkcoi^se began to relish with 
me very well ; and from this time I entertained some hopes 
that, at one time or other, I might find an opportunity 
to make my escape from this place, and that this poor 
savage might be a means to help me to do it. 

iiter Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, 
and he could understand almost all I said to him, 
and speak fluently, though in broken English to me, I 
acquainted him with my own story, or at least so much 
of it as related to my coining into the place, how I had 
lived there, and how long. I let him into the mystery, 
for such it was to him, of gunpowder and bullet, and 
taught him how to shoot ; I gave him a knife, which he 
was wonderfully delighted with, and I made him a belt, 
with a frog hanging to it, such as in England we wear 
hangers in; and in the frog, instead of a hanger, I gave 
him a hatchet, which was not only as good as a weapon, 
in some cases, but much more useful upon other occasions. 

I showed him, the ruins of our boat, which we lost 
when we escaped, and which I could not stir with my 
whole strength then, but was now fallen almost all to 
pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood musing a 
great while, and said nothing. I asked him what it was 
he studied upon. At last says he, Me see such boat like 
come to place at my nation.” 

I did not understand him a good while, but at last, 
when I had examined further into it, I understood by him 
that a boat such as that had been, came on shore upon 
the country where he lived; that is, as he explained it, 
was driven thither by stress of weather. I presently 
imagined that some European ship must have been cast 



154 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


away upon their coast, and the boat might haTe-^got loose 
and driven ashore ; but was so dull, that I never once 
thought of men making escape from a wreck thither, much 
less whence they might come; 'so I only inwired after a 
description of the boat. 

Friday described the boat to me well enough; but 
made me understand him better when he added with 
some warmth, save the white mans from drown.*' 

Then I presently asked him if there were any white mans, 
as he called them, in the boat. Yes," he said, the boat 
full of white mans.” I asked him how many. He told 
upon his fingers seventeen, I asked him then what 
became of them. He told me, ‘‘ They live, they dwell at 
my nation.” 

This put new thoughts into my head, for I presently 
imagined that these might be the men belonging to the 
ship that was cast away in sight of my island, as I now 
call it ; and who, after the ship was struck on the rock, 
and they saw her inevitably lost, had saved themselves in 
their boat, and w^ere landed upon that wild shore among 
the savages. 

Upon this I inquired of him more critically what was 
become of them. He assured me they lived still there ; 
that they had been there about four years; that the 
savages let them alone, and gave them victuals to hve. 
I asked him how it came to pass they did not kill them, 
and eat them. He said, “No, they make brother with 
them ” ; that is, as I understood him, a truce ; and then 
he added, “They no eat mans but when make the war 
fight ” ; that is to say, they never eat any men but such 
as come to fight with them and are taken in battle. 

It was after this some considerable time, that being 
on the top of the hiU, at the east side of the island, from 
whence as I have said, I had in a clear day discovered the 
mam continent of America, Friday, the weather being 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 155 


very serene, looks very earnestly towards the mainland, 
and, in a kind of surprise, falls a-jumping and dancing, 
and calls out to me, for Lwas at some distance from Mm. 

I asked hits? what was the matter ? '' 0 joy ! says he, 

0 glad 1 there see my C 9 untry>, there my nation ! 

1 observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared 
in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and his countenance 
discovered a strange eagerness, as if he had a mind to be 
in his own country again. 

One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather 
being hazy at sea, so that we could not see the continent, 
I called to Mm, and said, Friday, do not you wish your- 
self in your own country, your own nation ? Yes,’' he 
said,'“ I be much 0 glad to be at my own nation.” “ What 
would you do there ? ” said I. Would you turn wild again, 
eat men’s flesh again, and be a savage as you were before ? ” 
He looked full of concern, and shaking his head said, ''No, 
no ; Friday tell them to live good ; teU them to pray God ; 
tell them to eat corn-bread, cattle-flesh, milk, no eat man 
again.” Why then,” said I to him, " they vdll kill you.” 
He looked grave at that, and then said, " No, they no kill 
me, they willing love learn.” He meant by this they 
would be willing to learn. He added, they learned much 
of the bearded mans that came in the boat. Then I asked 
liim if he would go back to them ? He smiled at that, 
and told me he could not swim so far. I told Mm I 
would make a canoe for Mm. He told me he would go, if 

1 would go with him. "I go 1 ” says I ; " why, they will 
eat me if I come there.” "No, no,” says he, "me make 
they no eat you ; me make they much love you.” He 
meant, he would tell them how I had killed his enemies, 
and saved his life, and so he would make them love me. 
Then he told me, as well as he could, how kind they were 
to seventeen wMte men, or bearded men, as he called 
them, who came on shore there in distress. 



156 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

From tMs tifaie I confess I had a mind to yentTare over, 
and see if I could possibly join with these bearded men, 
who, I made no doubt, were Spamards or Portuguese ; not 
doubting but, if I could, we might find som^ method to 
escape from thence, beingrupcn j^he continent, and a^good 
company together, better than I could from an island forty 
miles off the shore, and alone, without help. So, after 
some days, I took Friday to work again, by way of dis- 
course, and told him I would give him a boat to go back 
to his own nation ; and accordingly I carried him to my 
frigate, which lay on the other side of the island, and 
having cleared it of water, for I always kept it sunk in 
the water, I brought it out, showed it him, and we both 
went into it. 

I found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing 
it, and could make it go almost as swift and fast again as 
I could. So when he was in I said to him, Well now, 
Friday, shall we go to your nation ? ” He looked very 
dull at my saying so, which, it seems, was because he 
thought the boat too small to go so far. I told Mm then 
I had a bigger ; so the next day I went to the place where 
the first boat lay wMch I had made, but which I could 
not get into water. He said that was big enough ; but 
then, as I had taken no care of it, and it had lam two or 
three and twenty years there, the sun had split and dried 
it, that it was in a manner rotten. Friday told me such 
a boat would do very well, and would carry much enough 
victual, drink, bread ” ; that wa.s his way of talking. 

Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my 
design of going over with him to the continent, that I told 
him we would go and make one as big as that, and he 
should go home in it. He answered not one word, but 
looked very grave and sad. I asked him what was the 
matter vrith hi m 1 He asked me again thus, Why you 
angry mad with Friday ? what me done V I asked Mm 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 157 


what he -..meaiit. I told him. I was not angry with hm at 
all. '' No angry ! no angry ! says he, repeating the words 
several times. "'Why send Friday home away to my 
nation?” ‘*^hy,” says 1^ ""Friday, did yon not say yon 
wished yon were there ? ” i" Yes, yes,” says he, "" wish be 
both there, no wish Friday there, no master there ? ” In 
a word, he would not think of going there without me. 
"" I go there, Friday ? ” says I ; "" what shall I do there ? ” 
He turned very quick upon me at this : "" You do great deal 
much good,” says he ; "" you teach wild mans to be good, 
sober, tame mans; you tell them know God, pray God, 
and live new life.” "" Alas ! Friday,” says I, "" thou knowest 
not what thou sayest. lam but an ignorant man myself.” 
"Yes, yes,” says he, ""you teachee me good, you teachee 
them good.” ""No, no, Friday,” says I, ""yon shall go 
without me; leave me here to live by myself, as I did 
before.” He looked confused again at that word, and 
running to one of the hatchets which he used to wear, 
he takes it up hastily, comes and gives it me. "" What 
must I do with this ? ” says I to him. "" You take kill 
Friday,” said he. "" What must I kill you for ? ” said I 
again. He returns very quick, "" What you send Friday 
away for ? Take kill Friday, no send Friday away.” This 
he spoke so earnestly, that I saw tears stand in his eyes. 
In a word, I so plainly discovered the utmost affection in 
him to me, and a firm resolution in him, that I told him 
then, and often after, that I would never send him away 
from me if he was willing to stay with me. 

Upon the whole, as I found by aU his discourse a 
settled affection to me, and that nothing should part him 
from me, so I found that all the foundation of his desire to 
go to his own country was laid in his ardent affection to 
the people, and his hopes of my doing them good ; a thing 
which, as I had no notion of myself, so I had not the least 
thought or intention or desire of undertaking it. But 



still I found a strong inclination to my atteni^ting an 
escape, founded on the supposition gathered from the 
discourse, viz., that there were seventeen bearded men 
there; and, therefore, without^ any more ^lay I went 
to work with Friday to find ^ out a great tree proper, to 
fell, and make a large periagua, 5r canoe, to undertake the 
voyage. There were trees enough in the island to have 
built a little fleet, not oiperiaguas and canoes, but even of 
good large vessels. But the main thing I looked at was, 
to get one so near the water that we might launch it when 
it was made, to avoid the mistake I committed at first. 

At last Friday pitched upon a tree, for I found he 
knew much better than I what kind of wood was fittest 
for it ; nor can I tell, to this day, what wood to call the 
tree we cut down, except that it was very like the tree we 
call fustic, or between that and the Mcaragua wood, for it 
was much of the same colour and smell. Friday was for 
burning the hoUow or cavity of this tree out, to make it 
for a boat, but I showed him how rather to cut it out with 
tools ; which, after I had showed him how to use, he did 
very handily; and in about a month's hard labour we 
finished it, and made it very handsome ; especially when, 
with our axes, which I showed him how to handle, we cut 
and hewed the outside into the true shape of a boat. After 
this, however, it cost us near a fortnight's time to get her 
along, as it were inch by inch, upon great rollers into the 
water ; but when she was in, she would have carried twenty 
men with great ease. 

When she was in the water, and though she was so big, 
it amazed me to see with what dexterity, and how swift 
my man Friday would manage her, ^ turn her, and paddle 
her along. So I asked him if he would, and if we might 
venture over in her. Yes," he said, he venture over in 
her very well, though great blow wind," However, I had 
a farther design that he knew nothing of, and that was to 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 15^ 


n.ake a mast and sail, and to fit her with an anchor and 
cable. As to a mast, that was easy enough to get ; so I 
pitched upon a straight young cedar tree, which I found 
near the plac^ and which ihere was great plenty of in the 
island^; and I set Friday to work to cut it down, and gave 
him directions how to shape and order it. But as to the 
sail, that was my particular care. I knew I had old sails, 
or rather pieces of old sails enough ; but as I had had them 
now twenty-six years by me, and had not been very careful 
to preserve them, not imagining that I should ever have 
this kind of use for them, I did not doubt but they were 
all rotten, and, indeed, most of them were so. However, 
I found two pieces which appeared pretty good, and with 
these I went to work, and with a great deal of pains, and 
awkward tedious stitching for want of needles, I, at 
length, made a three-corner ugly thing, like what we call 
in England a shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go with a boom 
at bottom, and a little short sprit at the top, such as 
usually our ships' long-boats sail with, and such as I best 
know how to manage ; because it was such a one as I had 
to the boat in which I made my escape from Barbary, as 
related in the first part of my story. 

I was near two months performing this last work, viz., 
rigging and fitting my mast and sails ; for I finished them 
very complete, making a small stay, and a sail or foresail, 
to it, to assist, if we should turn to windward ; and, which 
was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the stem of her 
to steer with. Though I was but a bungling shipwright, 
yet as I knew the usefulness, and even necessity, of such 
a thing, I applied myself with so much pains to do it, 
that at last I brought it to pass ; though, considering the 
many dull contrivances I had for it that failed, I think it 
cost me almost as much labour as making the boat. 

After all this was done too, I had my man Friday to 
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my boat ; 



for thougli he knew very well how to paddle canoe, he 
knew nothing of what belonged to a sail and a rudder ; and 
was the most amazed when he saw me work the boat to 
and again in the sea by the rudder, and how ^e sail jibbed, 
and filled this way, or that way, as the course we sailed ; 
changed, I say, when he saw this,ne stood like one astonished 
and amazed. However, with a little use I made all these 
tilings faniiliar to him, and he became an expert sailor, 
except that as to the compass I could make him under- 
stand very little of that. On the other hand, as there was 
very little cloudy weather, and seldom or never any fogs 
in those parts, there was the less occasion for a compass, 
seeing the stars were always to be seen by night, and the 
shore by day, except in the rainy seasons, and then 
nobody cared to stir abroad, either by land or sea. 

I was now entered on the seven and twentieth year 
of my captivity in this place ; though the three last years 
that I had this creature with me ought rather to be left 
out of the account, my habitation being quite of another 
kind than in all the rest of the time. I had an invincible 
impression upon my thoughts that my deliverance was at 
hand, and that I should not be another year in this place. 
However, I went on with my husbandry, digging, planting, 
fencing, as usual. I gathered and cured my grapes, and 
did every necessary thing as before. 

The rainy season was, in the meantime, upon me, when 
I kept more within doors than at other times ; so I had 
stowed our new vessel as secure as we could, bringing her 
up into the creek, where, as I said in the beginning, I 
landed my rafts from the ship ; and hauling her up to the 
shore at high-water mark, I made my man Triday dig a 
little dock, just big enough to hold her, and just deep 
enough to give her water enough to float in. When the 
tide was out, we made a strong dam across the end of it, 
to keep the water out, so she lay dry, as to the tide, 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 161 


from the* sea ; and to keep the rain off, we laid a great 
many boughs of trees, so thick, that she was as well 
thatched as a house; thus we waited for the month of 
November a^d December, in which I designed to make 
my adventure. ^ ^ 

When the settled season began to come in, as the 
thought of my design returned with the fair, weather, I 
was preparing daily for the voyage. The first thing I 
did was to lay by a certain quantity of provisions, being 
the stores for our voyage ; and intended, in a week or a 
fortnight’s time, to open the dock, and launch out our 
boat I was busy one morning upon something of this 
kind, when I called to Friday, and bade him go to the sea- 
shore and see if he could find a turtle, or tortoise, a thing 
which we generally got once a week, for the sake of the 
eggs as well as the flesh. Friday had not been long gone 
when he came running back, and flew over my outer 
wall, or fence, like one that felt not the ground, or the 
steps he set his feet on; and before^ I had time to speak 
to him, he cries oxit to me, 0 master ! 0 master ^ 0 

sorrow! 0 bad!” What’s the matter, Friday?” says 
I. 0 yonder, there,” says he, “ one, two, three canoe I 
one, two, three ! ” By his way of speaking, I concluded 
there were six ; but, on inquiry, I found it was but three, 
'"Well, Friday,” says I, '"do not be frightened.” So I 
heartened him up as well as I could. However, I saw 
the poor fellow was most terribly scared ; for nothing ran 
in his head but that they were come to look for him, and 
would cut him in pieces, and eat him ; and the poor fellow 
trembled so, that I scarce knew what to do with him. I 
comforted him as well as I could, and told him I was in 
as much danger as he, and that they would eat me as well 
as him. " But,” says I, Friday, we must resolve to fight 
them. Can you fight, Friday ? ” Me shoot,” says he ; 
but there come many great number.” “ No matter for 



162 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


that,” said I again ; our guns will frighten them that we 
do not kill.” So I asked him whether, if I resolved to 
defend him, he would defend me, and stand by me, and 
do just as I bid him. He said, Me die ^en you bid 
die, master ” So I went and fetched a good dram of^rum, 
and gave him ; for I had been so good a husband of my 
rum, that I had a great deal left. When he had drunk it, 
I made him take the two fowling-pieces, which we always 
carried, and load them with large swan-shot, as big as 
small pistol-bullets. Then I took four muskets, and 
loaded them with two slugs and five small bullets each ; 
my two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets each. I 
hung my great sword, as usual, naked by my side, and 
gave Friday his hatchet. 

When I had thus prepared myself, I took my per- 
spective glass, and went up to the side of the hill to see 
what I could discover. I found quickly, by my glass, 
that there were one and twenty savages, three prisoners, 
and three canoes, and that their whole business seemed to 
be the triumphant banquet upon these three human bodies ; 
a barbarous feast indeed, but nothing more than, as I had 
observed, was usual with them. 

I observed also that they were landed, not where they 
had done when Friday made his escape, but nearer to my 
creek, where the shore was low, and where a thick wood 
came close almost down to the sea. This, with the abhor- 
rence of the inhuman errand these wretches came about, 
filled me with such indignation, that I came down again 
to Friday, and told him I was resolved to go down to 
them, and kill them all, and asked him if he would stand 
by me. He was now gotten over his fright, and his spirits 
being a little raised with the dram I had given him, he 
was very cheerful, and told me, as before, he would die 
when I bid die. 

In this fit of fury, I first divided the arms which I 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 163 


had chai^ged, as before, between us. I gave Friday 
one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three guns upon 
his shoulder ; and I took one pistol, and the other three 
myself, and ^^ this posture we inarched out. I took 
a ^all bottle of rum in in,y pocket, and gave Friday a 
large bag with more powdk' and bullet ; and as to orders, 
I charged him to keep close behind me, and not to stir, or 
shoot, or do anything, till I bid him, and in the meantime 
not to speak a word. In this posture I fetched a compass 
to my right hand of near a mile, as well to get over the 
creek as to get into the wood, so that I might come within 
shot of them before I should be discovered, which I had 
seen, by my glass, it was easy to do. 

While I was making this march, my former thoughts 
returning, I began to abate my resolution. I do not mean 
that I entertained any fear of their number ; for as they 
were naked, unarmed wretches, ’tis certain I was superior 
to them ; nay, though I had been alone. But it occuiTed 
to my thoughts what call, what occasion, much less what 
necessity, I was in to go and dip my hands in blood, to 
attack people who had neither done or intended me any 
wrong. These things were so warmly pressed upon my 
thoughts all the way as I went, that I resolved I would 
only go and place myself near them, that I might observe 
their barbarous feast, and that I would act then as God 
should direct ; but that, unless something offered that was 
more a call to me than yet I knew of, I would not meddle 
with them. 

With this resolution I entered the wood, and with all 
possible wariness and silence, Friday following close at 
my heels, I marched till I came to the skirt of the wood, 
on the side which was next to them ; only that one comer 
of the wood lay between me and them. Here I called 
softly to Friday, and showing him a great tree, which was 
just at the comer of the wood, I bade him go to the tree 



164 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


and bring me word if he conld see there plainly what 
they were doing. He did so, and came immediately back 
to me, and told me they might be plainly viewed there ; 
that they were all about their fire, eating tfee flesh of one 
of their prisoners, and that another lay bound upQn ithe 
sand, a little from them, whom, he said, they would kill 
next; and, whicli fired all the very soul within me, he 
told me it was not one of their nation, but one of the 
bearded men, whom he had told me of, that came to their 
country in the boat. I was filled with horror at the very 
naming the white, bearded man ; and going to the tree, I 
saw plainly, by my glass, a white man, who lay upon the 
beach of the sea, with his hands and his feet tied with 
flags, or things like rushes, and that he was an European, 
and had clothes on. 

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, 
about fifty yards nearer to them than the place where I 
was, which, by going a little way about, I saw I might 
come at undiscovered, and that then I should be within 
half shot of them ; so I withheld my passion, though I was 
indeed enraged to the highest degree; and going back 
about twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, which 
held all the way till I came to the other tree ; then I 
came to a little rising ground, which gave me a full view 
of them, at the distance of about eighty yards. 

I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the 
dreadful wretches sat upon the ground, all close huddled 
together, and had just sent the other two to butcher the 
poor Christian, and bring him, perhaps limb by limb, to 
their fire ; and they were stooped down to untie the bands 
at his feet. I turned to Eriday : “ How, Friday,” said I, 
^'do as I bid thee.” Eriday said he would. ‘*Then, 
Eriday,” says I, '' do exactly as you see me do ; fail in 
nothing.” So I set down one of the muskets and the 
fowling-piece upon the ground, and Eriday did the like 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 165 


by his ; and with the other musket I took my aim at the 
savages, bidding him do the like. Then asking him if he 
was ready, he said, '' Yes.” Then fire at them,” said I ; 
and the samemnoment I fired also. 

»F4day took his aim so much, better than I, that on the 
side that he shot he killed two of them, and wounded 
three more ; and on my side I killed one, and wounded 
two. They were, you may be sure, in a dreadful consterna- 
tion ; and all of them who were not hurt jumped up upon 
their feet, but did not immediately know which way to 
run, or which way to look, for they knew not from whence 
their destruction came. Friday kept Ms eyes close upon 
me, that, as I had bid him, he might observe what I did ; 
so as soon as the first shot was made I threw down the 
piece, and took up the fowling-piece, and Friday did the 
like. ‘‘ Are you ready, Friday ? ” said I. Yes,” says 
he. “ Let fly, then,” says I, '' in the name of G-od ! ” and 
with that I fired again among the amazed wretches, and 
so did Friday ; and as our pieces were now loaded with 
what I called swan-shot, or small pistol- bullets, we found 
only two drop, but so many were wounded, that they ran 
about yelling and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody, 
and miserably wounded most of them ; whereof three more 
fell quickly after, though not quite dead, 

‘‘Now, Friday,” says I, laying down the discharged 
pieces, and taking up the musket which was yet loaded, 
“ follow me,” says I, wMch he did with a great deal of 
courage ; upon wMch I rushed out of the wood, and showed 
myself, and Friday close at my feet. As soon as I 
perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could, and 
bade Friday do so too ; and running as fast as I could, 
which, by the way, was not very fast, being laden with 
arms as I was, I made directly towards the poor victim, 
who was, as I said, lying upon the beach, or shore, between 
the place where they sat and the sea. The two butchers. 



166 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

who were just going to work with him, had left him at 
the surprise of our iSbrst fire, and fled in a terrible fright 
to the seaside, and had jumped into a canoe, and three 
more of the rest made the same way. I turfed to Friday, 
and bade him step forwards fire at them. He under- 
stood me immediately, and running about forty yards, to 
be near them, he shot at them, and I thought he had 
killed them all, for I saw them all fall of a heap into the 
boat ; though I saw two of them up again quickly. How- 
ever, he killed two of them and wounded the third, so 
that he lay down in the bottom of the boat as if he had 
been dead. 

While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my 
knife and cut the flags that bound the poor victim ; and 
loosing his hands and feet, I lifted him up, and asked him 
in the Portuguese tongue what he was. He answered in 
Latin, Christianus ; but was so weak and faint that he 
could scarce stand or speak. I took my bottle out of my 
pocket and gave it him, making signs that he should drink, 
which he did ; and I gave him a piece of bread, which he 
ate. Then I asked him what countryman he was and 
he said, Espagnole ; and being a little recovered, let me 
know, by all the signs he could possibly make, how much 
he was in my debt for his deliverance. “ Seignior, said 
I, with as much Spanish as I could make up, “ we will 
talk afterwards, but we must fight now. If you have any 
strength left, take this pistol and sword, and lay about 
you.” He took them very thankfully, and no sooner had 
he the arms in his hands but, as if they had put new 
vigour into him, he flew upon his murderers like a fury, and 
had cut two of them in pieces in an instant ; for the truth 
is, as the whole was a surprise to them, so the poor 
creatures were so much frightened with the noise of our 
pieces, that they fell down for mere amazement and fear, 
and had no more power to attempt their own escape, than 



adventures of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 167 


fcheir flesh had to resist our shot ; and that was the case 
of those five that Friday shot at in the boat, for as three 
of them fell with the hurt they received, so the other two 
fell with th^ifright. 

• I, kepi my piece in my han^ still without firing, being 
willing to keep my charge ready, because I had given the 
Spaniard my pistol and sword. So I called to Friday, and 
bade him run up to the tree from whence we first fired, 
and fetch the arms which lay there that had been dis- 
charged, which he did with great swiftness; and then 
giving him my musket, I sat down myself to load all the 
rest again, and bade them come to me when they wanted. 
While I was loading these pieces, there happened a fierce 
engagement between the Spaniard and one of the savages, 
who made at him with one of their great wooden swords, 
the same weapon that was to have killed him if I 
had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as bold 
and as brave as could be imagined, though weak, had 
fought this Indian a good while, and had cut him two 
great wounds on his head ; but the savage being a stout, 
lusty fellow, closing in with him, had thrown him down, 
being faint, and was wringing my sword out of his hand, 
when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitting 
the sword, drew the pistol from his girdle, shot the savage 
through the body, and killed him upon the spot, before I, 
who was running to help, could come near him. 

Friday being now left to his liberty, pursued the flying 
wretches with no weapon in his hand but Ms hatchet ; and 
with that he despatched those three who, as I said before, 
were wounded at first, and fallen, and all the rest he could 
come up with. The Spaniard coming to me for a gun, 
I gave Mm one of the fowling-pieces, with wMch he 
pursued two of the savages, and wounded them both ; but 
as he was not able to run, they both got from him into 
the wood, where Friday pursued them, and killed one of 



168 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

them. The other was too nimble for him, and though 
he was wounded, yet he plunged into the sea and swam 
with all his might off to those two who were left in the 
canoe ; and these three in the canoe, with #ie wounded, 
who we know not wheth^ he died or no, were all* that 
escaped our hands of one and twenty. 

Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of 
gun-shot ; and though Friday made two or three shots at 
them, I did not find that he hit any of them. Friday 
would fain have had me take one of their canoes, and 
pursued them; and, indeed, I was very anxious about 
their escape, lest carrying the news home to their people 
they should come back perhaps with two or three hundred 
of their canoes, and devour us by mere multitude. So I 
consented to pursue them by sea, and running to one of 
their canoes I jumped in, and bade Friday follow me. But 
when I was in the canoe, I was surprised to find another 
poor creature lie there alive, bound hand and foot, as the 
Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with fear, 
not knowing what the matter was ; for he had not been 
able to look up over the side of the boat, he was tied so 
hard, neck and heels, and had been tied so long, that he 
had really but little life in him. 

I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which 
they had bound him with, and would have helped him 
up ; but he could not stand or speak, but groaned most 
piteously, believing, it seems, still that he was only un- 
bound in order to be killed. 

"When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him, 
and tell him of his deliverance, and pulling out my 
bottle, made him give the poor wretch a dram; which, 
with the news of his being delivered, revived him, and he 
sat up in the boat. But when Friday came to hear him 
speak, and look in his face, it would have moved any one 
to tears to have seen how Friday kissed him, embraced 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 169 


him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about, 
danced, sang ; then cried again, wrung his hands, beat his 
own face and head, and then sang and jumped about 
again, like a ^distracted creature. It was a good while 
before^ I could make him s|)eak l^o me, or tell me what was 
the matter, but when he came a little to himself, he told 
me that it was his father. 

It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to 
see what ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this 
poor savage at the sight of his father, and of his being 
delivered from death ; nor, indeed, can I describe half the 
extravagancies of his affection after this, for he went into 
the boat, and out of the boat, a great many times. When 
he went in to him, he would sit down by him, open his 
breast, and hold his father's head close to his bosom, half- 
an-hour together, to nourish it ; then he took his arms and 
ankles, which were numbed and stiff with the binding, 
and chafed and rubbed them with his hands ; and I, per- 
ceiving what the case was, gave him some rum out of 
my bottle to rub them with, which did them a great deal 
of good. 

This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe 
with the other savages, who were now almost out of 
sight. It was happy for us that we did not, for it blew 
so hard within two hour^ after, and before they could 
have got a quarter of their way, and continued blowing 
so hard all night, and that from the north-west, which was 
against them, that I could not suppose their boat could 
live, or that they ever reached their own coast. 

But to return to Friday. He was so busy about Hs 
father, that I could not find it in my heart to take him off 
for some time ; but after I thought he could leave him a 
little, I called him to me, and he came jumping and laugh- 
ing, and pleased to the highest extreme. Then I asked 
if he had given his father any bread. He shook his 



170 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


head, and said, “ITone, ugly dog eat all up seif/' So I 
gave him a cake of bread out of a little pouch I carried on 
purpose. I also gave him a dram for himself, but he would 
not taste it, but carried it to his father, fj had in my 
pocket also two or three jDunches of my raisins, so J gave 
him a handful of them for his father. He had no sooner 
given his father these raisins, but I saw him come out of 
the boat and run away, as if he had been bewitched, he 
ran at such a rate ; for he was the swiftest fellow of his 
foot that ever I saw. I say, he ran at such a rate, that he 
was out of sighi, as it were, in an instant; and though 
I called, and hallooed too, after him, it was all one, away 
he went. In a quarter of an hour I saw him come 
back again, though not so fast as he went ; and as he came 
nearer I found his pace was slacker, because he had some- 
thing in his hand. 

When he came up to me, I found he had been quite 
home for an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his father some 
fresh water, and that he had got two more cakes or loaves 
of bread. The bread he gave me, but the water he carried 
to his father. However, as I was very thirsty too, I took 
a little sup of it. This water revived his father more than 
all the rum or spirits I had given him, for he was just 
fainting with thirst. 

When his father had drunk, I called him to know if 
there was any water left. He said ^'Yes;" and I bade 
him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as much 
want of it as his father ; and I sent one of the cakes, that 
Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, who was indeed very 
weak, and was reposing himself upon a green place under 
the shade of a tree ; and whose limbs were also very stiff, 
and very much swollen with the rude bandage he had 
been tied with. When I saw that upon Friday's coming 
to him with the water he sat up and drank, and took the 
bread, and began to eat, I went to him, and gave him a 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 171 


handful ®f raisins. He looked up in my face with all the 
tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that could appear in 
any countenance; but he was so weak, notwithstanding 
he had so exited himself in the fight, that he could not 
stand, upon his feet. He tried lo do it two or three times, 
but was really not able, his ankles were so swollen and so 
painful to him ; so I bade him sit still, and caused Friday 
to rub his ankles, and bathe them with rum, as he had 
done his father’s. 

I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two 
minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here, turn 
his head about to see if his father was in the same place 
and posture as he left him sitting, and at last he found 
he was not to be seen ; at which he started up, and without 
speaking a word, flew with that swiftness to him, that one 
could scarce perceive his feet to touch the ground as he 
went. But when he came, he only found he had laid him- 
self down to ease his limbs ; so Friday came back to me 
presently, and I then spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday 
help him up, if he could, and lead him to the boat, and 
then he should carry him to our dwelling, where I would 
take care of him. But Friday, a lusty strong fellow, 
took the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and carried 
hi-m away to the boat, and set him down softly upon 
the side of the canoe, with his feet in the inside of it, 
and then lifted him quite in, and set him close to Ms 
father; and presently stepping out again, launched the 
boat off, and paddled it along the shore faster than I could 
walk, though the wind blew pretty hard too. So he 
brought them both safe into our creek, and leaving them 
in the boat, ran away to fetch the other canoe. As 
he passed me, I spoke to him, and asked him whither he 
went. , He told me, “ Gro fetch more boat.” So away he 
went like the wind, for sure never man or horse ran like 
him, and he had the other canoe in the creek almost as 



172 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


soon as I got to it by land ; so he wafted me over, and 
then went to help our new guests out of the boat, but 
they were neither of them able to walk, so that poor 
Friday knew not what to do. 

To remedy this I wen^ te work in my thought^ and 
calling to Friday to bid them sit 'down on the bank while 
he came to me, I soon made a kind of hand-barrow to lay 
them on, and Friday and I carried them up both together 
upon it between us. But when we got them to the out- 
side of our wall, or fortification, we were at a worse loss 
than before, for it was impossible to get them over, and I 
was resolved not to break it down. So I set to work 
again, and Friday and I, in about two hours’ time, made 
a very handsome tent, covered with' old sails, and above 
that with boughs of trees, being in the space without our 
outward fence, and between that and the grove of young 
wood which I had planted ; and here we made them two 
beds of such things as I had, viz., of good rice-straw, with 
blankets laid upon it to lie ofi, and another to cover them, 
on each bed. 

As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued 
prisoners, and given them shelter and a place to rest them 
upon, I began to think of making some provision for 
them ; and the first thing I did, I ordered Friday to take 
a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out of my 
particular flock, to be killed. I cut off the hindquarter, 
and chopping it into small pieces, I set Friday to work 
to boiling and stewing, and made them a very good 
dish, I assure you, of flesh and broth, having put some 
barley and rice also into the broth ; and as I cooked it 
without doors, for I made no fire within my inner wall, 
so I carried it kll into the new tent, and having set a 
table there for them, I sat down and ate my own dinner 
also with them, and as well as I could cheered them, and 
encouraged them ; Friday was my interpreter, especially 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 173 


to his father, and, indeed, to the Spaniard too; for 
the Spaniard spoke the language of the savages pretty 
well. 

I then brigan to enter into a little conversation with 
nay |wo new subjects ; and first, I set Friday to inc^uire 
of his father what he thought of the escape of the savages 
in that canoe, and whether we might expect a return of 
them, with a power too great for us to resist. His first 
opinion was, that the savages in the boat never could live 
out the storm which blew that night they went off, but 
must, of necessity, be drowned or driven south to those 
other shores, where they were as sure to be devoured as 
they were to be drowned if they were cast away. But as to 
what they would do if they came safe on shore, he said he 
knew not ; but it was his opinion that they were so dread- 
fully frightened with the manner of their being attacked, 
the noise, and the fixe, that he believed they would tell 
their people they were all killed by thunder and lightning, 
not by the hand of man ; and that the two which appeared, 
viz.) Friday and me, were two heavenly spirits, or furies, 
come down to destroy them, and not men with weapons. 
This, he said, he knew, because he heard them all cry out 
so in their language to one another ; for it was impossible 
to them to conceive that a man could dart fire, and speak 
thunder, and kill at a distance without lifting up the 
hand, as was done now. And this old savage was in the 
right ; for, as I understood since by other hands, the savages 
never attempted to go over to the island afterwards. They 
were so terrified with the accounts given by those four 
men (for, it seems, they did escape the sea), that the}^ 
believed whoever went to that enchanted island would be 
destroyed with fire from the gods. 

This, however, I knew not, and therefore was under 
continual apprehensions for a good while, and kept always 
upon my guard, me and all my army ; for as we were now 



174 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


four of as, I would have ventured upon a hundred of 
them, fairly in the open field, at any time. 

In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing, 
the fear of their coming wore off, and I begs© to take my 
former thoughts of a voyage tp the main into consider- 
tion; being likewise assured, hf Friday’s father, that I 
might depend upon good usage from their nation, on his 
account, if I would go. 

But my thoughts were a little suspended when I had a 
serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when I under- 
stood that there were sixteen more of his countrymen and 
Portuguese who, having been cast away, and made their 
escape to that side, lived there at peace, indeed, with the 
savages, but were very sore put to it for necessaries, and 
indeed for life. I asked him all the particulars of their 
voyage, and found they were a Spanish ship bound from 
the Eio de la Plata to the Havana, being directed to leave 
their loading there, which was chiefly hides and silver, and 
to bring back what European goods they could meet with 
there; that they had five Portuguese seamen on board, 
whom they took out of another wreck ; that five of their 
own men were drowned when the first ship was lost, 
and that these escaped, through infinite dangers and 
hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on the cannibal 
coast, where they expected to have been devoured every 
moment. 

He told me they had some arms with them, but they 
were perfectly useless, for that they had neither powder or 
ball, the washing of the sea having spoiled all their powder 
but a little, which they used, at their first landing, to 
provide themselves some food. 

I asked him what he thought would become of them 
there, and if they had formed any design of making an 
escape ? He said they had many consultations about it ; 
but that having neither vessel, or tools to bmld one, or 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 175 

provisions of any kind, their councils always ended in tears 
and despair, 

I asked him how he thought they would receive a 
proposal fronifnie, which might tend towards an escape; 
and whether, if they were alj here, it might not he done ? 
I told him with freedom,^ I feared mostly their treachery 
and ill-usage of me if I put my life in their hands ; for 
that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature of man, 
nor did men always square their dealings by the obliga- 
tions they had received, so much as they did by the advan- 
tages they expected. I told him it would be very hard 
that I should be the instrument of their deliverance, and 
that they should afterwards take me as their prisoner to 
New Spain, or that they should, when I had put weapons 
into their hands, carry me by force among their own people, 
where I might be ill-used for my kindness to them, and 
make my case worse than it was before. 

He answered, with a great deal of candour and ingenuity, 
that their condition was so miserable, and they were so 
sensible of it, that he believed they would abhor the thought 
of using any man unkindly that should contribute to their 
deliverance. 

He told me they were all of them very civil, honest 
men, and they were under the greatest distress imaginable, 
having neither weapons or clothes, or any food, but at the 
mercy and discretion of the savages ; out of all hopes of 
ever returning to their own country; and that he was 
sure, if I would undertake their relief, they would live 
and die by me. 

Upon these assurances I resolved to venture to relieve 
them, if possible, and to send the old savage and this 
Spaniard over to them to treat. But when we had got all 
things in readiness to go, the Spaniard himself started 
an objection, which had so much prudence in it on one 
hand, and so much sincerity on the other hand, that I could 



176 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


not but be very well satisfied in it, and by his advice put 
off the deliverance of his comrades for at least half a year. 
The case was thus. 

He had been with us now about a montl®during which 
time I had let him see in ^hat manner I had provided, 
with the assistance of Providence, for my support ; and he 
saw evidently what stock of corn and rice I had made up ; 
which, as it was more than sufficient for myself, so it was 
not sufficient, at least without good husbandry, for my 
family, now it was increased to four; but much less 
would it be sufficient if his countrymen, who were, as he 
said, fourteen, still alive, should come over; and least 
of all would it be sufficient to victual our vessel, if we 
should build one, for a voyage to any of the Christian 
colonies of America. So he told me he thought it would 
be more advisable to let him and the two others dig 
and cultivate some more land, as much as I could 
spare seed to sow; and that we should wait another 
harvest, that we might have a supply of corn for his 
countrymen when they should come, for want might be 
a temptation to them to disagree, or not to think them- 
selves delivered, otherwise than out of one difficulty into 
another. 

His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, 
that I could not but be very well pleased with his pro- 
posal, as well as I was satisfied with his fidelity. So we 
fell to digging all four of us, as well as the wooden tools 
we were furnished with permitted ; and in about a month’s 
time, by the end of which it was seed-time, we had got so 
much land cured and trimmed up that we sowed twenty- 
two bushels of barley, and sixteen jars of rice ; which 
was, in short, all the seed we had to spare ; nor, indeed, 
did we leave ourselves barely sufficient for our own food 
for the six months that we had to expect our crop ; that 
is to say, reckoning from the time we set our seed aside 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 177 

for sowing; for it is not to be supposed it is six months 
in the ground in that country. 

Having now society enough, and our number being 
sufficient to pit us out of fear of the savages, if they had 
come, j^nless their number had been very great, we went 
freely all over the island, wherever we found occasion ; 
and as here we had our escape or deliverance upon our 
thoughts, it was impossible, at least for me, to have the 
means of it out of mine. To this purpose I marked out 
several trees wliich I thought fit for our work, and I set 
Friday and his father to cutting them down ; and then I 
caused the Spaniard, to whom I imparted my thought on 
that affair, to oversee and direct their work. I showed 
them with what indefatigable pains I had hewed a large 
tree into single planks, and I caused them to do the like, 
till they had made about a dozen large planks of good oak, 
near two feet broad, thirty-five feet long, and from two 
inches to four inches thick. What prodigious labour it 
took up, any one may imagine. 

At the same time, I contrived to iAcrease my little 
flock of tame goats as much as I could; and to this 
purpose I made Friday and the Spaniard go out one day, 
and myself with Friday the next day, for we took our turns, 
and by this means we got above twenty young kids to 
breed up with the rest ; for whenever we shot the dam, 
we saved the kids, and added them to oux flock. But 
above all, the season for curing the grapes coming on, I 
caused such a prodigious quantity to be hung up in the 
sun, that I believe, had we been at Alicant, where the 
raisins of the sun are cured, we could have filled sixty or 
eighty barrels; and these, with our bread, was a great 
part of our food, and very good living too, I assure you; 
for it is an exceeding nourishing food. 

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order. It 
was not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the 

2ff 



178 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

island, but, however, it was enough to answer our end ; 
for from our twenty-two bushels of barley we brought in 
and thrashed out above two hundred and twenty bushels, 
and the like in proportion of the rice ; '^hich was store 
enough for our food to fihe-^ next harvest, though ^all« the 
sixteen Spaniards had been on shore with me ; or if we 
had been ready for a voyage, it would very plentifully 
have victualled our ship to have carried us to any part of 
the world, that is to say, of America. 

When we had thus housed and secured our magazine 
of corn, we fell to work to make more wicker-work, viz., 
great baskets, in. which we kept it. The Spaniard was 
very handy and dexterous at this part, and often blamed 
me that I did not make some things for defence of this 
kind of work but I saw no need of it. 

And now having a full supply of food for all the guests 
I expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the 
mam, to see what he could do with those he had left 
behind him there. I gave him a strict charge in writing 
not to bring any man with him who would not first swear, 
in the presence of himself and of the old savage, that he 
would in no way injure, fight with, or attack the person 
he should find in the island, who was so kind to send for 
them in order to their deliverance ; but that they would 
stand by and defend him against all such attempts, and 
wherever they went would be entirely under and subjected 
to his co mm ands ; and that this should be put in writing, 
and signed with their hands. How we were to have this 
done, when I knew they had neither pen or ink, that 
indeed was a q^uestion which we never asked. 

Under these instructions, the Spaniard and the old 
savage, the father of Friday, went away in one of the 
canoes which they might be said to have come in, or 
rather were brought in, when they came as prisoners to be 
devoured by the savages. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 179 

I each of them a musket, with a firelock on it, 
and about eight charges of powder and ball, charging 
them to be very good husbands of both, and not to use 
either of therS but upon urgent cases. 

• T^^is was a cheerful work, b^ing the first measures used 
by me, in view of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven 
years and some days. I gave them provisions of bread 
and of dried grapes sufficient for themselves for many 
days, and sufficient for all their countrymen for about 
eight days’ time ; and wishing them a good voyage, I saw 
them go, agreeing with them about a signal they should 
hang out at their return, by which I should know them 
again, when they came back, at a distance, before rhey 
came on shore. 

They went away with a fair gale on the day that the 
moon was at full, by my account in the month of October ; 
but as for an exact reckoning of days, after I had once 
lost it, I could never recover it again; nor had I kept 
even the number of years so punctually as to be sure that 
I was right, though as it proved, when I afterwards 
examined my account, I found I had kept a true reckoning 
of years. 

It was no less than eight days I had waited for them, 
when a strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of 
which the like has not perhaps been heard of in history. 
I was fast asleep in my hutch one morning, when my man 
Friday came running in to me, and called aloud, Master, 
master, they are come, they are come ! ” 

I jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went out as 
soon as I could get my clothes on, through my little grove, 
which, by the way, was by this time grown to be a very 
thick wood ; I say, regardless of danger, I went without 
my arms, which was not my custom to do; but I was 
surprised when, turning my eyes to the sea, I presently 
saw a boat at about a league and a halfs distance standing 



180 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

in for the shore, with a shoulder-of-mutton sail* as they 
call it, and the wind blowing pretty fair to bring them in ; 
also I observed presently that they did not come from that 
side which the shore lay on, but from the %outhemmost 
end of the island. Upon this I called Friday in, an<hbade 
him He close, for these were not "the people we looked for, 
and that we might not know yet whether they were friends 
or enemies. 

In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective 
glass, to see what I could make of them ; and having taken 
the ladder out, I climbed up to the top of the hill, as I 
used to do when I was apprehensive of anything, and to 
take my view the plainer without being discovered. 

I had scarce set my foot on the hill, when my eye 
plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor at about two 
leagues and a half’s distance from me, south-south-east, 
but not above a league and a half from the shore. By 
my observation, it appeared plainly to be an English ship, 
and the boat appeared to be an EngHsh long-boat. 

I cannot express the confusion I was in; though the 
joy of seeing a ship, and one that I had reason to believe 
was manned by my own countrymen and consequently 
friends, was such as I cannot describe. But yet I had 
some secret doubts hung about me, I cannot tell from 
whence they came, bidding me keep upon my guard. In 
the first place, it occurred to me to consider what business 
an EngHsh ship could have in that part of the world, since 
it w^as not the way to or from any part of the world where 
the EngHsh had any trafidc. I knew there had been no 
storms to drive them in there as in distress; and that 
if they were English really, it was most probable that they 
were here upon no good design; and that I had better 
continue as I was, than fall into the hands of thieves and 
murderers. 

I had not kept myself long in this posture, when I saw 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 181 

fchie boat Sraw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek 
to thrust in at, for the convenience of landing. However, 
as they did not come quite far enough, they did not see 
the little inlet where I formerly landed my rafts, but ran 
thSirhoat on shore upon^the beach, at about half a mile 
from me, which was very happy for me; for otherwise 
they would have landed just, as I may say, at my door, 
and would soon have beaten me out of my castle, and 
perhaps have plundered me of all I had. 

When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied that 
they were Englishmen, at least most of them ; one or two 
I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so. There 
were in all eleven men, whereof three of them I found 
were unarmed and, as I thought, bound; and when the 
first four or five of them had jumped on shore, they took 
those three out of the boat, as prisoners. One of the three 
I could perceive using the most passionate gestures of 
entreaty, affliction, and despair, even to a kind of extrava- 
gance ; and the other two, I could perceive, lifted up their 
hands sometimes, and appeared concerned indeed, but not 
to such a degree as the first. 

I was perfectedly confounded at the sight, and knew 
not what the meaning of it should be. Friday called out 
to me in English as well as he could, 0 master ! you see 
English mans eat prisoner as well as savage mans.” 
« Why,” says I, “ Friday, do you think they are a-going 
to eat them then ? ” “ Yes,” says Friday, ‘‘ they will eat 

them.” Ho, no,” says I, “ Friday, I am afraid they will 
murder them indeed, but you may be sure they will not 
eat them.” 

All this while I had no thought of what the matter 
really was, but stood trembling with the horror of the 
sight, expecting every moment when the three prisoners 
should be killed ; nay, once I saw one of the villains lift 
up his arm with a great cutlass, as the seamen call it, or 



182 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


sword, to strike one of tlie poor men ; and I expected to 
see Mm fall every moment, at wMch all the blood in my 
body seemed to run chill in my veins. ^ 

I wished heartily now for my Spaniard, and the savage 
that was gone with him ; or uh^t I had any way ter hsTve 
come undiscovered witMn shot of them, that I might have 
rescued the three men, for I saw no firearms among 
them ; but it fell out to my mind another way. 

After I had observed the outrageous usage of the three 
men by the insolent seamen, I observed the fellows run 
scattering about the land, as if they wanted to see the 
country, and I saw that the three other men had liberty 
to go also where they pleased ; but they sat down all three 
upon the ground, very pensive, and looked like men in 
despair. 

It was just at the top of high-water when these people 
came on shore, and wMle partly they stood parleying 
with the prisoners they brought, and partly while they 
rambled about to see what kind of a place they were in, 
they had carelessly stayed till the tide was spent, and the 
water was ebbed considerably away, leaving their boat 
aground. 

They had left two men in the boat, who, as I found 
afterwards, having drunk a little too much brandy, fell 
asleep. However, one of them waking sooner than the 
other, and finding the boat too fast aground for him to stir 
it, hallooed for the rest, who were straggling about, upon 
which they aU soon came to the boat ; but it was past all 
their strength to launch her, the boat being very heavy, 
and the shore on that side being a soft oozy sand, almost 
like a quicksand. 

In this condition, like true seamen, who are perhaps 
the least of all mankind given to forethought, they gave it 
over, and away they strolled about the country again ; and 
I heard one of them say aloud to another, calling them off 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 18 S 


from tlie ‘boat, “ Why, let her alone, Jack, can't ye ? she 
wjDLl float next tide ; ” by which I was fully confirmed in 
the main inquiry of what countrymen they were. 

AE this wlflle I kept myself very close, not once daring 
to atirn,out of my castle any^, farther than to my place of 
observation near the top of the hill ; and very glad I was 
to think how well it was fortified. I knew it was no less 
than ten hours before the boat could be afloat again. 
By that time it would be dark, and I might be at more 
liberty to see their motions, and to hear their discourse, if 
they had any. 

In the meantime, I fitted myself up for a battle, as 
before, though with more caution, knowing I had to do 
with another kind of enemy than I had at first. I ordered 
Friday also, whom I had made an excellent marksman 
with his gun, to load himself with arms. I took myself 
two fowling-pieces, and I gave him three muskets. My 
figure, indeed, was very fierce. I had my formidable goat« 
skin coat on, with the great cap I have mentioned, a naked 
sword by my side, two pistols in my belt, and a gun upon 
each shoulder. 

It was my design, as I said above, not to have made 
any attempt till it was dark; but about two o'clock, 
being the heat of the day, I found that they were all 
gone straggling into the woods, and, as I thought, were 
laid down to sleep. The three poor distressed men, too 
anxious for their condition to get any sleep, were, how- 
ever, set down under the shelter of a great tree, at about 
a quarter of a mile from me, and, as I thought, out of sight 
of any of the rest. 

Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, and 
learn something of their condition. Immediately I marched 
in the figure as above, my man Friday at a good distance 
behind me, as formidable for his arms as I, but not making 
quite so staring a spectre-like figure as I did. 



184 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

I came as near tlieni undiscovered as I couldf and then, 
before any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in 
Spanish, What are ye, gentlemen ? 

They started up at the noise, but were Ifen times more 
confounded when they s^w ^e, and the uncouth^ figure 
that I made. They made no answer at all, but I thought 
I perceived them just going to fly from me, when I spoke 
to them in English. Gentlemen/' said I, do not be 
surprised at me ; perhaps you may have a friend near you, 
when you did not expect it/' “ He must be sent directly 
from heaven, then," said one of them very gravely to me, 
and pulling off his hat at the same time to me, for our 
condition is past the help of man." ''All help is from 
heaven, sir," said I. " But can you put a stranger in the 
way how to help you, for you seem to be in some great 
distress 1 I saw you when you landed, and when you 
seemed to make applications to the brutes that came with 
you, I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you." 

The poor man, with tears running down his face, and 
trembling, looking like one astonished, returned, " Am I 
talking to God, or man ? Is it a real man, or an angel ? " 
" Be in no fear about that, sir," said 1. " If God had sent 

an angel to relieve you, he would have come better clothed, 
and armed after another manner than you see me in. Pray 
lay aside your fears ; I am a man, an Englishman, and 
disposed to assist you, you see. I have one servant only ; 
we have arms and ammunition; tell us freely, can we 
serve you ? What is your case ? " 

"Our case," said he, "sir, is too long to tell you 
while our murderers axe so near ; but in short, sir, I was 
commander of that ship ; my men have mutinied against 
me, and they have been hardly prevailed on not to murder 
me; and at last have set me on shore in this desolate 
place, with these two men with me, one my mate, the 
other a passenger, where we expected to perish, believing 





186 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


the place to be tininhabited, and know not yet *what to 
think of it!* 

Where are those brutes, your enemies ? ” said I. 
'' Do you know where they are gone ? “ TEere they lie, 

sir,’' said he, pointing to a ^thicket of trees. '' My heart 
trembles for fear they have seen us, and heard you speak. 
If they have, they will certainly murder us all.” 

‘‘ Have they any firearms ? ” said I. He answered, 
they had only two pieces, and one which they left in the 
boat. “Well then,” said I, “leave the rest to me; I* see 
they are all asleep ; it is an easy thing to kill them all ; 
but shall we rather take them prisoners ? ” He told me 
there were two desperate villains among them that it was 
scarce safe to show any mercy to ; but if they were secured, 
he believed all the rest would return to their duty. I 
asked him which they were. He told me he could not 
at that distance describe them, but he would obey my 
orders in anything I would direct. “Well,” said I, “let 
us retreat out of their view or hearing, lest they awake, 
and we will resolve further.” So they wOlingly went 
back with me, till the woods covered us from them. 

“ Look you, sir,” said I, “ if I venture upon your 
deliverance, are you willing to make two conditions with 
me ? ” He anticipated my proposals, by telling me that 
both he and the ship, if recovered, should be wholly 
directed and commanded by me in everything ; and if the 
ship was not recovered, he would live and die with me 
in what part of the world soever I would send him ; and 
the two other men said the same. 

“Well,” said I, “my conditions are but two. 1. That 
while you stay on this island with me, you will not 

pretend to any authority here; and if I put arms into 

your hands, you will, upon all occasions, give them up 
to me, and do no prejudice to me or mine upon this 

island ; and in the meantime, be governed by my orders. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 187 


2. That ship is, or may be, recovered, you will carry 
me and my man to England, passage free.” 

He gave me all the assurances that the invention and 
faith of man could devise that he would comply with these 
mo^t reasonable demands; and, besides, would owe his 
life to me, and acknowledge it upon all occasions, as long 
as he lived. 

“Well then,” said I, “here are three muskets for you, 
with powder and ball; tell me next what you think is 
proper to be done.” He showed all the testimony of his 
gratitude that he was able, but offered to be wholly guided 
by me. I told him I thought it was hard venturing any- 
thing ; but the best method I could think of was to fire 
upon them at once as they lay ; and if any was not killed 
at the first volley, and offered to submit, we might save 
them, and. so put it wholly upon God’s providence to 
direct the shot. 

He said very modestly that he was loth to kill them, 
if he could help it ; but that those two were incorrigible 
villains, and had been the authors of all the mutiny in 
the ship, and if they escaped, we should be undone still ; 
for they would go on board and bring the whole ship’s 
company, and destroy us all. “Well then,” says I, 
“ necessity legitimates my advice, for it is the only way 
to save our lives.” However, seeing him still cautious 
of shedding blood, I told him they should go themselves, 
and manage as they found convenient. 

In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them 
awake, and soon after we saw two of them on their feet. 
I asked him if either of them were of the men who he 
had said were the heads of the mutiny. He said, “ Ho.” 
“Well then,” said I, “you may let them escape; and 
Providence seems to have wakened them on purpose to 
save themselves. How,” says I, “ if the rest escape you, 
it is your fault.” 



188 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

Animated with this, he took the musket I had given 
him in his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two 
comrades with Mm, with each man a piece in his hand. 
The two men who were with him going fimt made some 
noise, at which one of the seamen who was awake fexirfled 
about, and seeing them coming cried out to the rest ; but it 
was too late then, for the moment he cried out they fired ; 
I mean the two men, the captain wisely reserving his own 
, piece. They had so well aimed their shot at the men they 
1 knew, that one of them was killed on the spot, and the 
: other very much wounded ; but not being dead, he started 
np upon his feet, and called eagerly for help to the other. 
;Bxit the captain stepping to him, told him 'twas too late 
to cry for help, he should call upon God to forgive his 
villainy ; and with that word knocked him down with the 
stock of his musket, so that he never spoke more. There 
were three more in the company, and one of them was 
also slightly wounded. By tMs time I was come; and 
when they saw their danger, and that it was in vain to 
resist, they begged for mercy. The captain told them he 
would spare their lives if they would give him any assur- 
ance of their abhorrence of the treachery they had been 
guilty of, and would swear to be faithful to him in recover- 
ing the sMp, and afterwards in carrying her back to Jamaica, 
from whence they came. They gave him aU the protesta- 
tions of their sincerity that could be desired, and he was 
willing to believe them, and spare their livesi wMch I was 
not against, only I obliged him to keep them bound hand 
and foot while they were upon the island. 

While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's 
mate to the boat, with orders to secure her, and bring away 
the oars and sail, wHch they did; and by-and-by three 
straggling men, that were (happily for them) parted from 
the rest, came back upon hearing the guns fired; and 
seeing their captain, who before was their prisoner, now 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 189 


their concjueror, they submitted to be bound also, and so 
our victory was complete. 

It now remained that the captain and I should inquire 
into one anotlJfer's circumstances. I began first, and told 
him njy whole history, whicji he heard with an attention 
even to amazement; anfi particularly at the wonderful 
manner of my being furnished with provisions and ammu- 
nition ; and, indeed, as my story is a whole collection of 
wonders, it affected him deeply. But when he reflected 
from thence upon himself, and how I seemed to have been 
preserved there on purpose to save his life, the tears ran 
down his face, and he could not speak a word more. 

After this communication was at an end, I carried him 
and his two men into my apartment, leading them in just 
where I came out, viz., at the top of the house, where I 
refreshed them with such provisions as I had, and showed 
them all the contrivances I had made during my long, 
long inhabiting that place. 

All I showed them, all I said to them was perfectly 
amazing ; btit above all, the captain admired my fortifica- 
tion, and how perfectly I had concealed my retreat with a 
grove of trees, which, having been now planted near twenty 
years, and the trees growing much faster than in England, 
was become a little wood, and so thick, that it was un- 
passable in any part of it but at that one side where I had 
reserved my little winding passage into it. I told him 
this was my castle and my residence, but that I had a seat 
in the country, as most princes have, whither I could 
retreat upon occasion, and I would show him that too 
another time ; but at present, our business was to consider 
how to recover the ship. He agreed with me as to that, 
but told me he was perfectly at a loss what measures to 
take, for that there were still six and twenty hands on 
board, who having entered into a cursed conspiracy, by 
which they had all forfeited their lives to the law, would 



190 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


be hardened in it now by desperation, and would cany it 
on, knowing that if they were reduced, they would be 
brought to the gallows as soon as they came to England, 
or to any of the English colonies ; and ^that therefore 
there would be no attacking tjiem with so small a lyimber 
as we were. 

I mused for some time upon what he said, and found 
it was a very rational conclusion, and that therefore some- 
thing was to be resolved on very speedily, as well to draw 
the men on board into some snare for their surprise, as to 
prevent their lauding upon us, and destroying us. Upon 
this it presently occurred to me that in a little while the 
ship’s crew, wondering what was become of their comrades, 
and of the boat, would certainly come on shore in their 
other boat to see for them ; and that then, perhaps, they 
might come armed, and be too strong for us. This he 
allowed was rational. 

Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to do was 
to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so that they 
might not carry her off; and taking everything out of her, 
leave her so far useless as not to be fit to swim. Accord- 
ingly we went on board, took the arms which were left 
out of her, and whatever else we found there, which 
was a bottle of brandy, and another of rum, a few biscuit- 
cakes, a horn of powder, and a great lump of sugar in a 
piece of canvas — the sugar was five or six pounds; all 
which was very welcome to me, especially the brandy 
and sugar, of which I had had none left for many years. 

When we had carried all these things on shore (the 
oars, mast, sail, and rudder of the boat were carried away 
before, as above), we knocked a great hole in her bottom, 
that if they had come strong enough to master us, yet 
they could not carry off the boat. 

Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts that we could 
be able to recover the ship ; but my view was, that if they 



iigij^T TT'S rfl BVBBXTHINQ: OUT OB HEB, IiKAVS HEB BO FAB USEUSSSB 
ab kot to be bit to 8wm»” 


m ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


went a.way without the boat, I did not much question to 
make her fit again to carry us away to the Leeward 
Islands, and call upon our friends the Spaniards in my 
way ; for I had them still in my thoughts. ^ 

While we were thus preparing our designs, an(^ had 
first, by main strength, heaved the boat up upon the beach 
so high that the tide would not fleet her off at high-water 
mark, and besides, had broken a hole in her bottom too 
big to be quickly stopped, and were sat down musing 
what we should do, we heard the ship fire a gun, and saw 
her make a waft with her ancient as a signal for the boat 
to come on board. But no boat stirred ; and they fired 
several times, making other signals for the boat. 

At last, when all their signals and firings proved 
fruitless, and they found the boat did not stir, we saw 
them, by the help of my glasses, hoist another boat out, 
and row towards the shore ; and we found, as they ap- 
proached, that there was no less than ten men in her, and 
that they had firearms with them. 

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we 
had a full view of them as they came, and a plain sight of 
the men, even of their faces ; because the tide having set 
them a little to the east of the other boat, they rowed up 
under shore, to come to the same place where the other 
had landed, and where the boat lay. 

By this means, I say, we had a full view of them, and 
the captain knew the persons and characters of all the 
men in the boat, of whom he said that there were three 
very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led into this 
conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered and frightened ; 
but that as for the boatswain, who, it seems, was the chief 
officer among them, and all the rest, they were as out- 
rageous as any of the ship's crew, and were no doubt 
made desperate in their new enterprise ; and terribly ap- 
prehensive he was that they would be too powerful for us. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE 193 


I smiled at him, and told Mm that men in our circum- 
stances were past the operation of fear ; that seeing almost 
every condition that could he was better than that wMch 
we were supposed to be in, we ought to expect that the 
oonsecjuence, whether death^or life, would be sure to be 
a deliverance. I asked him 'v^at he thought of the cir- 
cumstances of my life, and whether a deliverance were not 
worth venturing for ? And where, sir,'’ said I, is your 
belief of my being preserved here on purpose to save your 
life, which elevated you a little while ago ? For my part,” 
said I, '' there seems to be but one thing amiss in all the 
prospect of it.” What’s that ? ” says he. “ Why,” said 
I, '"’tis that, as you say, there are three or four honest 
fellows among them, which should be spared; had they 
been all of the wicked part of the crew I should have 
thought God’s providence had singled them out to deliver 
them into your hands ; for depend upon it, every man of 
them that comes ashore are our own, and shall die or live 
as they behave to us.” 

As I spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful 
countenance, I found it greatly encouraged him; so we 
set vigorously to our business. We had, upon the first 
appearance of the boat's coming from the sMp, considered 
of separating our prisoners, and had, indeed, secured them 
effectually. 

Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured 
than ordinary, I sent with Friday and one of the three 
delivered men to my cave, where they were remote enough, 
and out of danger of being heard or discovered, or of finding 
their way out of the woods if they could have delivered 
themselves. Here they left them bound, but gave them 
provisions, and promised them, if they continued there 
quietly, to give them their liberty in a day or two ; but 
that if they attempted their escape, they should be put to 
death without mercy. They promised faithfully to bear 



194 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


their confinement with patience, and were veryo thankful 
that they had such good usage as to have provisions and 
a light left them ; for Friday gave them candles (such as 
we made ourselves) for their comfort ; ancP they did not 
know but that he stood sentinel over them at the entrp,noe. 

The other prisoners had better usage. Two of them 
were kept pinioned, indeed, because the captain was not 
free to trust them ; but the other two were taken into my 
service, upon their captain's recommendation, and upon 
their solemnly engaging to live and die with us ; so with 
them and the three honest men we were seven men well 
armed ; and I made no doubt we should be able to deal 
well enough with the ten that were coming, considering 
that the captain had said there were three or four honest 
men among them also. 

As soon as they got to the place where their other boat 
lay, they ran their boat* into the beach, and came all on 
shore, hauling the boat up after them, which I was glad 
to see ; for I was afraid they would rather have left the 
boat at an anchor some distance from the shore, with some 
hands in her to guard her, and so we should not be able to 
seize the boat. 

Being on shore, the first thing they did they, ran all to 
their other boat ; and it was easy to see that they were 
under a great surprise to find her stripped, as above, of all 
that was in her, and a great hole in her bottom. 

After they had mused a while upon this, they set up 
two or three great shouts, hallooing with all their might, 
to try if they could make their companions hear ; but all 
was to no purpose. Then they came all close in a ring, 
and fired a volley of their small arms, which, indeed, we 
heard, and the echoes made the woods ring. But it was 
all one ; those in the cave we were sure could not hear, 
and those in our keeping, though they heard it well 
enough, yet durst give no answer to them. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 195 

They were so astonished at the surprise of this, that, 
as they told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on 
board again to their ship, and let them know there that 
the men wer3 all murdered and the longboat staved. 
AcQordingly, they immediately launched their boat again, 
and gat all of them on bd^rd. 

The captain was terribly amazed, and even confounded 
at this, believing they would go on board the ship again, 
and set sail, giving up their comrades for lost, and so he 
should still lose the ship, which he was in hopes we 
should have recovered; but he was quickly as much 
frightened the other way. 

They had not been long put off with the boat but we 
perceived them all coming on shore again : but with this 
new measure in their conduct, which it seems they con- 
sulted together upon, viz., to leave three men in the boat, 
and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the country to 
look for their fellows. 

This was a great disappointment to us, for now we were 
at a loss what to do ; for our seizing those seven men on 
shore would be no advantage to us if we let the boat 
escape, because they would then row away to the ship, and 
then the rest of them would be sure to weigh and set sail, 
and so our recovering the ship would be lost. However, 
we had no remedy but to wait and see what the issue of 
things might present. The seven men came on shore, and 
the three who remained in the boat put her off to a good 
distance from the shore, and came to an anchor to wait for 
them ; so that it was impossible for us to come at them in 
the boat. 

Those that came on shore kept close together, marching 
towards the top of the little hill under which my habita- 
tion lay; and we could see them plainly, though they 
could not perceive us. We should have been very glad 
if they had come nearer to us, so that we might have 



196 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

fired at them, or that they would have gone farther off, 
that we might have come abroad. 

But when they were come to the brow of the hill, where 
they could see a great way into the valleys and woods 
which lay towards the north-east part, and where the 
island lay lowest, they shoiited and hallooed till they were 
weary ; and not caring, it seems, to venture far from the 
shore, nor far from one another, they sat down together 
under a tree, to consider of it. Had they thought fit to 
have gone to sleep there, as the other party of them had 
done, they had done the job for us ; but they were too full 
of apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep, 
though they could not tell what the danger Avas they had 
to fear neither. 

The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this 
consultation of theirs, viz., that perhaps they would aU fire 
a volley again, to endeavour to make their fellows hear, 
and that we should all sally upon them, just at the juncture 
when their pieces were all discharged, aud they would 
certainly yield, and we should have tlieni without blood- 
shed. I liked the proposal, provided it was done while we 
were near enough to come up to them before they could 
load their pieces again. 

But this event did not happen, and we lay still a long 
time, very irresolute Avhat course to take. At length 1 
told them nothing could be done, in my opinion, till 
night; and then, if they did not return to the boat, 
perhaps we might find a way to get between them and 
the shore, and so might use some stratagem with them 
in the boat to get them on shore. 

We waited a great while, though very impatient for 
their removing ; and were very uneasy when, after long 
consultations, we saw them start up, and march down 
toward the sea. It seems they had such dreadful appre- 
hensions upon them of the danger of the place, that they 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 197 


resolved k> go on board the ship again, give their companions 
over for lost, and so go on with their intended voyage with 
the ship. 

As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore, I 
imagined it to be, as it reslly was, that they had given 
over their search, and were for going back again ; and the 
captain, as soon as I told him my thoughts, was ready to 
sink at the apprehensions of it ; but I presently thought 
of a stratagem to fetch them back again, and which answered 
my end to a tittle. 

I ordered Friday and the captain’s mate to go over the 
little creek westward, towards the place where the savages 
came on shore when Friday was rescued, and as soon as 
they came to a little rising ground, at about half a mile 
distance, I bade them halloo as loud as they could, and 
wait till they found the seamen heard them ; that as soon 
as ever they heard the seamen answer them, they should 
return it again; and then keeping out of sight, take a 
round, always answering when the other hallooed, to draw 
them as far into the island, and among the woods, as 
possible, and then wheel about again to me by such ways 
as I directed them. 

They were just going into the boat when Friday and 
the mate hallooed; and they presently heard them, and 
answering, ran along the shore westward towards the voice 
they heard, when they were presently stopped by the creek, 
where the water being up, they could not get over, and 
called for the boat to come up and set them over, as, indeed, 
I expected. 

When they had set themselves over, I observed that the 
boat being gone up a good way into the creek, and, as it 
were, in a harbour within the land, they took one of the 
three men out of her to go along with them, and left only 
two in the boat, having fastened her to the stump of a 
little tree on the shore. 



198 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


That was what I wished for ; and immediately leaving 
Friday and the captain’s mate to their business, I took the 
rest with me, and crossing the creek out of their sight, we 
surprised the two men before they were Sware; one of 
them lying on shore, and^thp other being in thq, boat. 
The fellow on shore was betw6'en sleeping and waking, 
and going to start up. The captain, who was foremost, 
ran in upon him, and knocked him down, and then 
called out to him in the boat to yield, or he was a dead 
man. 

There needed very few arguments to persuade a single 
man to yield when he saw five men upon him, and his 
comrade knocked down ; besides, this was, it seems, one of 
the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the 
rest of the crew, and therefore was easily persuaded not 
only to yield, but afterwards to join very sincerely with us. 

In the meantime, Friday and the captain’s mate so 
well managed their business with the rest, that they drew 
them, by hallooing and answering, from one MU to another, 
and from one wood to another, till they not only heartily 
tired them, but left them where they were very sure they 
could not reach back to the boat before it was dark ; and, 
indeed, they were heartily tired themselves also by the 
time they came back to us. 

We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in 
the dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make sure work 
with them. 

It was several hours after Friday came back to me 
before they came back to their boat ; and we could hear 
the foremost of them, long before they came quite up, 
calling to those behind to come along, and could also hear 
them answer and complain how lame and tired they were, 
and not able to come any faster ; wMch was very welcome 
news to us. 

At length they came up to the boat ; but ’tis impossible 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 199 


to expre^ their confnsioB when they found the boat fast 
aground in the creek, the tide ebbed out, and their two 
men gone. We could hear them call to one another in a 
most lamentfcible manner, telling one another they had 
got into an enchanted island ; that either there were in- 
habitants in it and they should all be murdered, or else 
there were devils and spirits in it and they should all be 
carried away and devoured. 

They hallooed again, and called their two comrades by 
their names a great many times ; but no answer. After 
some time we could see them, by the little light there was, 
run about, wringing their hands hie men in despair, and 
that sometimes they would go and sit down in the boat to 
rest themselves, then come ashore again, and walk about 
again, and so the same thing over again. 

My men would fain have me give them leave to fall 
upon them at once in the dark ; but I was willing to take 
them at some advantage, so to spare them, and kill as few 
of them as I could; and especially I was unwilling to 
hazard the killing any of our own men, knowing the other 
were very well armed. I resolved to wait, to see if they 
did not separate, and, therefore, to make sure of them, I 
drew my ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday and the 
captain to creep upon their hands and feet, as close to the 
ground as they could, that they might not be discovered, 
and get as near them as they could possibly, before they 
offered to fire. 

They had not been long in that posture but that the 
boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of the mutiny, 
and had now shown himself the most dejected and dispirited 
of aU the rest, came walking towards them, with two 
more of their crew. The captain was so eager, as having 
this principal rogue so much in his power, that he could 
hardly have patience to let him come so near as to be sure 
of him, for they only heard his tongue before ; but when 



£00 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


they came nearer, the captain and Friday, starting up on 
their feet, let fly at them. 

The boatswain was killed upou the spot; the next 
man was shot into the body, and fell just % him, though 
lie did not die till an hour or two after ; and the third ran 
for it 

At the noise of the firing I immediately advanced with 
my whole army, which was now eight men, viz., myself, 
generalissimo ; Friday, my lieutenant-general ; the captain 
and his two men, and the three prisoners of war, whom 
we had trusted with arms. 

We came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that they 
could not see our number ; and I made the man we had 
left in the boat, who was now one of us, call to them by 
name, to try if I could bring them to a parley, and so 
might perhaps reduce them to terms, which fell out just 
as we desired ; for indeed it was easy to think, as their 
condition then was, they would be very willing to capitu- 
late. So he calls out as loud as he could to one of them, 
Tom Smith 1 Tom Smith ! '' Tom Smith answered im- * 
mediately, Who’s that? Eobinson?” For it seems he 
knew his voice. The other answered, Ay, ay ; for God’s 
sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms and yield, or 
you are all dead men this moment.” 

Whom must we* yield to ? Where are they ? ” says 
Smith again. “Here they are,” says he; “here’s our 
captain, and fifty men with him, have been hunting you 
this two hours; the boatswain is killed, Will Frye is 
wounded, and I am a prisoner ; and if you do not yield, 
you are all lost.” 

“ Will they give us quarter then,” says Tom Smith, 
and we will yield ? ” “ I’ll go and ask, if you promise 
to yield,” says Eobinson. So he asked the captain, and 
the captain then calls himself out, “You, Smith, you 
know my voice, if you lay down your arms immediately. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, m 

and subia.it, you shall have your lives, all but Will 
Atkins/’ 

Upon this Will Atkins cried out, "For God's sake, 
captain, give nfe quarter ; what have I done ? They have 
been qll as bad as I ” : which^ by the way, was not true 
neither ; for, it seems, thfe Will Atkins was the first man 
that laid hold of the captain when they first mutinied, and 
used him barbarously, in tying his hands, and giving him 
injurious language. However, the captain told him he 
must lay down his arms at discretion, and trust to the 
governor's mercy; by which he meant me, for they all 
called me governor. 

In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged 
their lives ; and I sent the man that had parleyed with 
them and two more, who bound them all. Then my 
great army of fifty men, which, particularly with those 
three, were all but eight, came up and seized upon them 
all, and upon their boat ; only that I kept myself and one 
other more out of sight for reasons of state. 

Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of 
seizing the ship; and as for the captain, now he had 
leisure to parley with them, he expostulated with them 
upon the villainy of their practices with him, and at 
length upon the farther wickedness of their design, and 
how certainly it must bring them to misery and distress 
in the end, and perhaps to the gallows. 

They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard for 
their lives. As for that, he told them they were none of his 
prisoners, but of the commander of the island ; that they 
thought they had set him on shore in a barren, uninhabited 
island; but it had pleased God so to direct them that 
the island was inhabited, and that the governor was an 
Englishman ; that he might hang them all there, if he 
pleased ; but as he had given them all quarter, he supposed 
he would send them to England, to be dealt with there as 



202 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


justice required, except Atkins, whom he was c^ifinmanded 
by the goyernor to advise to prepare for death, for that he 
would be hanged in the morning. 

Though this was all a fiction of his owS, yet it had its 
desired effect. Atkins fell ,upon his knees, to Ijeg^the 
captain to intercede with the ^governor for his life ; and 
all the rest begged of him, for God's sake, that they might 
not be sent to England. 

It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance 
was come, and that it would be a most easy thing to bring 
these fellows in to be hearty in getting possession of the 
ship ; so I retired in the dark from them, that they might 
not see what kind of a governor they had, and called the 
captain to me. When I called, as at a good distance, one 
of the men was ordered to speak again, and say to the 
captain, Captain, the commander calls for you.” And 
presently the captain replied, “ Tell his excellency I am 
just a-coming.” This more perfectly amazed them, and 
they all believed that the commander was just by with 
his fifty men. 

Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my 
project for seizing the ship, which he liked wonderfully 
well, and resolved to put it in execution the next morning. 
But in order to carry it out with more art, and to be secure 
of success, I told him we must divide the prisoners, and that 
he should go and take Atkins and two more of the worst 
of them, and send them pinioned to the cave where the 
others lay. This was committed to Friday and the two 
men who came on shore with the captain. 

They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prison. And 
it was, indeed, a dismal place, especially to men in their 
condition. The others I ordered to my bower, as I called 
it, of which I have given a full description ; and as it was 
fenced in, and they were pinioned, the place was secure 
enough, considering they were upon their behaviour. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. mS 

To t^bese in the morning I sent the captain, who was 
to enter into a parley with them ; in a word, to try them, 
and tell me whether he thought they might be trusted or 
no to go on l^oard and surprise the ship. He talked to 
them pf the injury done higi, pf the condition they were 
brought to; and that though the gorernor had given 
them quarter for their lives as to the present action, yet 
that if they were sent to England they would all be hanged 
in chains, to be sure ; but that if they would join in so 
just an attempt as to recover the ship, he would have the 
governor’s engagement for their pardon. 

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would 
be accepted by men in their condition. They fell down on 
their knees to the captain, and promised, with the deepest 
imprecations, that they would be faithful to him to the 
last drop, and that they should owe their lives to him, and 
would go with him all over the world ; that they would 
own him for a father to them as long as they lived. 

“Well,” says the captain, “I must go and tell the 
governor what you say, and see what I can do to bring 
him to consent to it.” So he brought me an account of 
the temper he found them in, and that he verily believed 
they woxild be faithful. 

However, that we might be very secure, I told him he 
should go back again and choose out five of them, and tell 
them they might see that he did not want men, that he 
would take those five to be his assistants, and that the 
governor would keep the other two and the three that 
were sent prisoners to the castle, my cave, as hostages for 
the fidelity of those five ; and that if they proved unfaith- 
ful in the execution, the five hostages should be hanged in 
chains alive upon the shore. 

This looked severe, and convinced them that the 
governor was in earnest. However, they had no way left 
them but to accept it ; and it was now the business of the 



204 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

prisoners, as mucli as of the captain, to persuade^^he other 
five to do their duty. 

Onr strength was now thus ordered for the expedition. 
1. The captain, his mate, and passenger.^ 2. Then the 
two prisoners of the firsts gang, to whom, having their 
characters from the captain, I hdd given their liberty, and 
trusted them with arms. 3. The other two whom I had 
kept till now in my bower, pinioned, but upon the captain's 
motion had now released. 4. These five released at last ; 
so that they were twelve in all, besides five we kept 
prisoners in the cave for hostages. 

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with 
these hands on board the ship ; for as for me and my man 
Friday, I did not think it was proper for us to stir, having 
seven men left behind, and it was employment enough for 
us to keep them asunder and supply them with victuals. 
As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them 
fast ; but Friday went in twice a day to them, to supply 
them with necessaries ; and I made the other two carry 
provisions to a certain distance, where Friday was to 
take it. 

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with 
the captain, who told them I was the person the governor 
had ordered to look after them, and that it was the 
governor’s pleasure they should not stir anywhere but by 
my direction ; that if they did, they should be fetched into 
the castle, and be laid in irons ; so that as we never 
suffered them to see me as governor, so I now appeared as 
another person, and spoke of the governor, the garrison, 
the castle, and the like, upon all occasions. 

The captain now had no difficulty before him but to 
furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and man 
them. He made his passenger captain of one, with four 
other men ; himself, and his mate, and five more went 
in the other ; and they contrived their business very well, 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. WS 


for they>^me up to the ship about midnight. As soon 
as they came within call of the ship, he made Eobinson 
hail them, and tell them they brought off the men and 
the boat, but Ihat it was a long time before they had 
found them, and the like, holding them in a chat till 
they came to the ship’s side ; Vhen the captain and the 
mate entering first, with their arms, immediately knocked 
down the second mate and carpenter with the butt-end 
of their muskets, being very faithfully seconded by their 
men. They secured all the rest that were upon the main 
and quarter decks, and began to fasten the hatches to 
keep them down who were below; when the other boat 
and their men entering at the fore-chains, secured the 
fore-castle of the ship, and the scuttle which went down 
into the cook-room, making three men they found there 
prisoners. 

When this was done, and all safe upon deck, the captain 
ordered the mate, with three men, to break into the round- 
house, where the new rebel captain lay, with two men 
and a boy all with firearms in their hands. When the 
mate with a crow split open the door, the new captain 
and his men fired boldly among them, and wounded the 
mate with a musket-ball, which broke jiis arm, and 
wounded two more of the men, but killed nobody. 

The mate calling for help, rushed however into the 
round-house wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot 
the new captain through the head, the bullet entering at 
his mouth and came out again behind one of his ears, so 
that he never spoke a word ; upon which the rest yielded, 
and the ship was taken effectually, without any more 
lives lost. 

. As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain 
ordered seven guns to l)e fired, which was the signal 
agreed upon with me to give me notice of his success, 
which you may be sure I was very glad to hear, having 




ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, m 


sat watcliyig upon tlie shore for it till near two of the 
clock in the morning. 

Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me down ; 
and it having Ueen a day of great fatigue to me, I slept 
verjr sound, till I was someth!:^ surprised with the noise 
of a gun ; and presently starting up, I heard a man call 
me by the name of “ Governor,” Governor,” and presently 
I knew the captain’s voice ; when climbing up to the top 
of the hill, there he stood, and pointing to the ship, he 
embraced me in his arms. My dear friend and deliverer,” 
said he, “ there’s your ship, for she is all yours, and so are 
we, and all that belong to her.” I cast my eyes to the 
ship, and there she rode within little more than half a 
mile of the shore; for they had weighed her anchor as 
soon as they were masters of her, and the weather being 
fair, had brought her to an anchor just against the mouth 
of the little creek, and the tide being up, the captain had 
brought the pinnace in near the place where I at first 
landed my rafts, and so landed just at my door. 

I was at first ready to sink down with the surprise ; 
for I saw my deliverance, indeed, visibly put into my 
hands, all things easy, and a large ship just ready to carry 
me away whither I pleased to go. At &st, for some time, 
I was not able to answer him one word ; but as he had 
taken me in his arms, I held fast by him, or I should have 
fallen to the ground. 

He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulled a 
bottle out of his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial, 
which he had brought on purpose for me. After I had 
drunk it, I sat down upon the ground ; and though it 
brought me to myself, yet it was a good while before I 
could speak a word to him. 

All this while the poor man was in as great an ecstasy 
as I, only not under any surprise, as I was, and he said a 
thousand kind tender things to me, to compose me and 



208 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 


bring me to myself. But such was the flood of J5y in my 
breast, that it put all my spirits into confusion. At last it 
broke out into tears, and in a little while after I recovered 
my speech. 

When we had talked a while, the captain told mg he 
had brought me some little refreshment, such as t&e ship 
afforded, and such as the wretches that had been so long 
bis masters had, not plundered him of. Upon this he 
called aloud to the boat, and bade his men bring the 
things ashore that were for the governor. 

First, he had brought me a case of bottles full of 
excellent cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira wine 
(the bottles held two quarts apiece), two pounds of excellent 
good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's beef, and six 
pieces of pork, with a bag of peas, and about a hundred- 
weight of biscuit. 

He brought me also a box of sugar, a box of flour, a 
bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice, and 
abundance of other things; but besides these, and what 
was a thousand times more useful to mo, he brought me 
six clean new shirts, six very good neck-cloths, two pair 
of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one pair of stockings, 
and a very good suit of clothes of his own, which had been 
worn but very little ; in a word, he clothed me from head 
to foot. 

It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any one 
may imagine, to one in my circumstances ; but never was 
anything in the world of that kind so unpleasant, awkward, 
and uneasy, as it was to me to wear such clothes at their 
first putting on. 

After these ceremonies passed, and after all his good 
things w’^ere brought into my little apartment, we began 
to consult what was to be done with the prisoners we had ; 
for it was worth considering whether we might venture to 
take them away with us or no, especially two of them. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ^09 


w]lOIQ:^we knew to be incorrigible and refractory to the 
last degree. The captain said he knew they were such 
rogues, that there was no obliging them ; and if he did 
carry them aK^ay, it must be in irons, as malefactors, to 
be delivered over to justice at the first English colony he 
could come at ; and I found that the captain himself was 
very anxious about it. 

Upon this I told him that, if he desired it, I durst 
undertake to bring the two men he spoke of to make it 
their own request that he should leave them upon the 
island. I should be veiy glad of that/’ said the captain, 
with all my heart.” 

“ Well,” said I, I will send for them up, and talk 
with them for you.” So I caused Eriday and the two 
hostages, for they were now discharged, their comrades 
having performed their promise ; I say, I caused them to 
go to the cave and bring up the five men, pinioned as they 
were, to the bower, and keep them there till I came. 

After some time I came thither, dressed in my new 
habit ; and now I was called governor again. Being all 
met, and the captain with me, I caused the men to be 
brought before me, and I told them I had had a full 
account of their villainous behaviour to the captain, and 
how they had run away with the ship, and were preparing 
to commit farther robberies, but that Providence had 
ensnared them in their own ways, and that they were 
fallen into the pit which they had digged for others, 

I let them know that by my direction the ship had 
been seized, that she lay now in the road, and they might 
see, by and by, that their new captain had received the 
reward of his villainy, for that they might see him hanging 
at the yard-arm ; that as to them, I wanted to know what 
they had to say why I should not execute them as pirates, 
taken in the fact, as by my commission they could not 
doubt I had authority to do. 



^10 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


One of them answered in the name of the rest that-tliey 
had nothing to say but this, that when they were" taken 
the captain promised them their lives, and they humbly 
implored my mercy. But I told them I kn^w not what 
mercy to show them ; for as for myself, I had resolved to 
quit the island with all my men, ^nd had taken passage 
with the captain to go for England. And as for the 
captain, he could not carry them to England other than 
as prisoners in irons, to be tried for mutiny, and running 
away with the ship ; the consequence of which, they must 
needs know, would be the gallows ; so that I could not 
tell which was best for them, unless they had a mind to 
take their fate in the island. If they desired that, I did 
not care, as I had liberty to leave it. I had some inclina- 
tion to give them their lives, if they thought they could 
shift on shore. 

They seemed very thankful for it, said they would 
much rather venture to stay there than to be carried to 
England to be hanged ; so I left it on that issue. 

However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty 
of it, as if he durst not leave them there. Upon this I 
seemed a little angry with the captain, and told him that 
they were my prisoners, not his; that seeing I had 
offered them so much favour, I would be as good as my 
word; that if he did not think fit to consent to it, I 
would set them at liberty, as I found them ; and if he 
did not like it, he might take them again if he could 
catch them. 

Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I accord- 
ingly set them at liberty, and bade them retire into the 
woods to the place whence they came, and I would leave 
them some firearms, some ammunition, and some directions 
how they should live very well, if they thought fit. 

Upon this I prepared to go on board the ship, but told 
the captain that I would stay that night to prepare my 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 211 


tilings, desired him to go on board in the meantime, 
and keep all right in the ship, and send the boat on shore 
the next day for me ; ordering him, in the meantime, to 
cause the ne^ captain, who was killed, to be hanged at 
the yard-arm, that these men might see him. 

When the captain was^'gune, I sent for the men up 
to me to my apartment, and entered seriously into dis- 
course with them of their circumstances. I told them I 
thought they had made a right choice ; that if the captain 
carried them away, they would certainly be hanged. I 
showed them the new captain hanging at the yard-arm 
of the ship, and told them they had nothing less to 
expect. 

When they all declared their willingness to stay, I 
then told them I would let them into the story of my 
living there, and put them into the way of making it easy 
to them. Accordingly I gave them the whole history of 
the place, and of my coming to it, showing them my 
fortifications, the way I made my bread, planted my corn, 
cured my grapes ; and in a word, all that was necessary to 
make them easy. I told them the story also of the six- 
teen Spaniards that were to be expected, for whom I left 
a letter, and made them promise to treat them in common 
with themselves. 

I left them my firearms, viz., five muskets, three fowl- 
ing pieces, and three swords. I had above a barrel and 
half ‘of powder left ; for after the first year or two I used 
but little, and wasted none. I gave them a description of 
the way I managed the goats, and directions to milk and 
fatten them, and to make both butter and cheese. 

In a word, I gave them every part of my own story, 
and I told them I would prevail with the captain to leave 
them two barrels of gunpowder more, and some garden 
seeds, which I told them I should have been very glad of. 
Also I gave them the bag of peas which the captain had 



212 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

brought me to eat, and bade them be sure t<^ow and 
increase them. 

Having done all this, I left them the next day, and 
went on board the ship. We prepared immediately to 
sail, but did not weigh that night. The next morning 
early two of the five men cafhei^swimming to the Chip's 
side, and making a most lamentable complaint of the other 
three, begged to be taken into the ship for God's sake, for 
they should be murdered, and begged the captain to take 
them on board, though he hange 1 them immediately. 

Upon this the captain pretended to have no power 
without me; but after some difi&culty, and after their 
solemn promises of amendment, they were taken on 
board, and were some time after soundly whipped and 
pickled, after which they proved very honest and quiet 
fellows. 

Some time after this the boat was ordered on shore, the 
tide being up, with the things promisOvl to the men, to 
which the captain, at my intercession, caused their chests 
and clothes to be added, which they took, and were very 
thankful for. I also encouraged them by telling them that 
if it lay in my way to smd any vessel to take them in, I 
would not forget them. 

When I took leave of this island, I carried on board, 
for relics, the great goatskin cap I had made, my umbrella, 
and my parrot; also I forgot not to take the money I 
formerly mentioned, which had lain by me so long useless 
that it was grown rusty or tarnished, and could hardly 
pass for silver till it had been a little rubbed and handled ; 
as also the money I found in the wreck of the Spanish 
ship. 

And thus I left the island, the 19th of December as I 
found by the ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had 
been upon it eiglit and twenty years, two months, and nine- 
teen days, being delivered from this second captivity the 



JDVENTUBES of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 213 

same dajr^gf the month that I first made my escape in the 
larco-longo, from among tlie Mooi-s of Sallee. 

In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in England, 
the 11th of -I#ne, in the year 1687, having been thirty 
and five ygars absent. 




NOTES TO “ROBINSON CRUSOE” 


Page 1, 1. 3. Bremen, an ancient and thriving city of Germany, 
on the river Weser, now the second commercial city of the Empire. 

Page 1, 1. 8. corruption of words, a change in the spelling or 
pronunciation of the words ; often these changes have been made to lessen 
the eSort in pronunciation, e /., walrus from whale and horse ; hussy 
from housewife. 

Belvoir in Leicestershire is pronounced Beever : drawing-room was 
originally the withdrawing-room — the room to which persons with- 
draw from the dining-room. The author’s name was changed from 
Daniel Foe (in short, D. Poe) into Darnel de Poe, and finally to Daniel 
Defoe. 

Page 1, 1. 16. competent, sufficient or smtable. 

Page 1, 1. 16. designed, intended. 

Page 1, 1 22. propension of nature, inclination or natural lean- 
ing to a certain course of action. 

Page 1, 1. 24. casually, by chance. 

Page 1, 1. 25. elopement, a secret departure. 

Page 2, 1. 16. inexpressibly, not to be expressed in words. 

Page 2, 1. 24. inured, accustomed or hardened. 

Page 3, L 27. mate, the first mate is second officer on a ship in 
the merchant service. 

Page 3, 1. 27. boatswain, an under or petty officer who looks to 
the sails, rigging, and other fittings of the ship ; he calls the seamen on 
duty with a whistle. 

Page 4, 1. 9. squall, a gust of wind. 

Page 4, 1. 14. roads, places where ships can ride at anchor. 

Page 4, 1. 26. ground -tackle, anchors with chains attached. 

Page 4, 1. 28. apprehensive, fearful. 

Page 4, 1. 31. strike our topmasts, to lower the top part of the 
masts. 

Page 4, 1. 35. anchor had come home, the anchor was not 
holding firmly but dragging on the sea bottom. 

Page 5, 1. 1. sheet anchor, the largest anchor of a ship. 

Page 6, 1. 2. veered out to the end, run out as far as pos- 

sible to allow the ship to ride easily. 

Page 6 , 1. 6 . vigilant, watchful 

Page 6 , 1. 11. steerage, the fore-part of the ship, the cabin being 
aft, or at the stern. 

Page 5, 1. 18. by the board, over the side of the ship. 

Page 5, 1. 20. founder, to fill with water and smk. 

215 



2l6 


NOTES. 


Page 5, 1. 25. sprit-sail, a fore and aft sail held in p^ition, not 
by a ga2, like the mainsail, but by a spar (the sprit-sail-ya'j^}, which is 
attached to the bottom of the mast and the upper and outer corner of ‘ 
the sail. 

Page 6, 1. 3. wallow, to roll about. 

Page 6, 1, 13. sprifing a leak, began to let in wi^er. 

Page 7, 1. 8. buoy, a cork, small cask or piece of wood to keep the 
rope adoat. ' » 

Page 7, 1. 19. Winterton Nei» 5 ,»a cape about ten miles north of 
Yarmouth. ^ 

Page 8, 1. 6 . Guinea, district round the gulf of that name in 
Central West Africa. 

Page 8, 1. 10. messmate, one who eats at the same table as 
another. 

Page 8, 1. 34:. ounce of gold, now worth fA 3s. Od. to M 5s. OiZ. 

Page 9, 1. 13. Canary Islands, a Spanish group about se¥enty 
miles from the south coast of Morocco 

Page 9, 1. 16. Sallee, a seaport of Morocco on the Atlantic. It 
was for centuries well known as a haunt for pirates, called the “ Sallee 
Rovers.” 

Page 9, 1. 23. athwart, across. 

Page 9, 1. 34:. half -pike, a weapon with a sharp spear-like head, 

but with a handle only half the usual length. 

Page 10, 1. 4:. Moors, inhabitants of Morocco. 

Page 10, 1. 26. pinnace, a small boat with eight oars and capable of 
carrying a sail. 

Page 10, 1. 27. Maresco, a sailor boy ; in Italian the word means, 
belonging to the sea. 

Page 11, 1. 11. long-boat, the longest and strongest boat carried 
on a ship. 

Page 11, 1. 17. mainsheet, the rope attached to the lower corner 
of the mainsail. 

Page 11, 1. 20. dexterous, clever. 

Page 13, 1. 33. Mahomet or Mohammed, the great prophet of 
Arabia. 

Page 14:, 1. 6. Straits’ mouth, Straits of G-ibraltar 

Page 14, 1. 26. latitude, distance hT. or S. of the equator. 

Page 16, 1. 22. Cape Verd Islands, a Portuguese group lying 350 
miles W. of Gape Verd, the most westerly headland in Africa. 

Page 16, 1. 32. Pico, Spanish word for the peak of a mountain. 

Page 16, 1. S3. Mountain Teneriffe, a famous dormant volcano, 
the highest peak in the Canary Islands ; it is 12,200 feet high. 

Page 18, 1. 29. rivers Gambia and Senega!, two West African 
rivers ; the Senegal is north and the Gambia south of Gape Verd. 

Page 20, 1. 1. kept a large offing, sailed directly across the bay 
for the headland instead of keeping by the coast. 

Page 20, 1. 10. dilemma, a difficulty. 

Page 20, 1. 10. pensive, gloomy or thoughtful. 

Page 20, 1. 27. crowded to the utmost, put on all sail. 

Page 20, 1. 28. perspective glasses, telescopes. 

Page 20, 1. 32. ancient, an ensign or flag denoting a nation. 

Page 21, 1. 28. tittle, a small particle 

Page 21, 1. 31. inventory, a list. 

Page 22, 1. 4. piece of eight, a piastre, an old Spanish silver 



NOTES. 


217 


coin wor’th ^pibout fonr sMUings. It was divided into eight silver reals, 
hence its Mme., ‘‘piece of eight.” 

Page 22, 1. 12. medium, middle cotirse. 

Page 22, 1. 13. obligation, a promise. 

Page 22, 1. 17 . All Saints’ Bay, one of the finest bays in America, 
On it IS sitnatdl^ the city of Bahia, or St. Salvador, the oldest city in 
Brazil and next in size to Bio de Janeiro. 

Page 22, 1. 23. ^ducat (Brazjljj^a silver coin worth between three 
and four shillings in English money ; the gold ducat is worth 9s, 4d. 

Page 23, 1. 6. letter of naturalisation, a docmnent granting 
the privileges of a native of the country. 

Page 23, 1. 82. procuration, power to manage another’s aSairs. 

Page 25, 1. 8. baize, a coarse woollen cloth with a long nap. 

Page 26, 1. 28 supercargo, a person in charge of the cargo and 
responsible for all the business transactions of a voyage. 

Page 27, 1 9. preposterous, foolish. 

Page 28, 1. 30. calenture, a kind of fever occurring on board ship 
in hot climates 

Page 29, 1. 8. Caribbee Islands, or Little Antilles, a chain of 
1 slands forming the eastern boundary of the Caribbean Sea. The northern 
hall is called the Leeward and the southern half the Windward Islands. 

Page 29, 1. 9. Barbadoes, one of the Windward Islands, and the 
most easterly of all the West Indies : colonized by the British in 1625. 

Page 29, 1. 10. indraft of the Gulf of Mexico, the flow of the 
waters of the ocean towards the G-ulf. The rotation of the earth and 
the action of the Trade Winds cause a westerly flow of the waters of 
the Atlantic Ocean from Africa to America at the equator. The 
formation of the coast of South America causes part of this current 
to be deflected northward along the coast into the Caribbean Sea and 
Gulf of Mexico from whence it flows as the Gulf Stream. 

Page 29, 1. 19. impetuosity, force ; violence 

Page 29, 1. 28. sand, sandbank. 

Page 29, 1. 34. consternation, terror ; dismay. 

Page 30, 1. 2. main, the mainland. 

Page 31, 1. 8. shoal, gently sloping. 

Page 31, 1. 12. under the lee, under the land sheltered from the 
wind 

Page 31, 1. 19. coup de grAce, the finishing blow. 

Page 33, 1. 20. contemplation, serious thought ; attentive obser- 
vation. 

Page 33, 1. 26, solaced, comforted in distress ; soothed. 

Page 83, 1. 31. to shift, to change one’s clothes. 

Page 34, 1. 8. ravenous, eager to devour. 

Page 35, 1. 29. forecastle, the quarters of the crew in the fore 
part of the sbdp. 

Page 36, 1. 14. yard, a long pole to carry square sails which cross 
the mast. 

Page 36, L 15. top-mast, a short mast attached to the lower mast. 

Page 37, 1. 12. cordial waters, beverages made from the jmce of 
certain roots, such as ginger, or from frmts, as the citron, lemon, lime, 
etc., and mixed with sugar. 

Page 37, 1. 12. rack, a spirit procured from coarse sugar, rice, or 
the juice of the coco and other palms. 

Page 37, 1. 31. fowling-piece, a light gun for small shot. 

P 2 



21*8 


NOTES. 


Page 39, L 6. navigation, the science and art of sailpgf ships. 
Page 41, 1. 7. environed, surrounded, > 

Page 41, 1. 11. barren, not cultivated. 

Page 41, 1, 27, carrion, ofiensive in smell and unfit for food. 

Page 42, 1. 26. screw-jack, a screw for raising heavy weights : it 
is worked by a lever in the form of a straight iron barii» 

Page 42, 1. 29. crow or crowbar, a large steel bar use as a lever. 
Page 42, 1. 35. fore- top sail, the sail for the mast aboVe the ftirov- 
mast or front mast in a ship. 

Page 43, 1. 21. fain, compelled. 

Page 44, 1. 3. magazine, store. 

Page 44, 1. 21, hogshead, a large cask. 

Page 44, 1. 22. runlet, a cask containing 18J gallons. 

Page 44, 1. 30. portable, that may be carried. 

Page 44, 1. 83. hawser, a very thick, strong rope. 

Page 44, 1, 34. sprit-sail yard, the spar fixed diagonally from 
the foot of the mast to the top and outer corner of the sprit-sail to 
keep it in position when spread. See illustration on p. iOO 

Page 44, 1. 35. mizzen-yard, the yard_ or spar that carries the 
mizzen ; the large fore-and-aft sail on the mainmast. 

Page, 45, 1. 24. rummaged, turned things over in search. 

Page 49, 1. 31. tarpaulin, a strong linen cloth ooated with tar 
to make it waterproof. 

Page 61, 1. 18, subtle, quick to discern or notice anything. 

Page 61, 1. 27. optics, organs of sight. 

Page 62, 1. 4, pale, an enclosed space. 

Page 63, 1. 23, dials, watches. 

Page 54, 1. 6. husbanded, used carefully. 

Page 55, 1. 28. adze, a joiner’s implement with a thin curved 
blade set at right angles to the handle. 

Page 66, 1. 1. prodigious, unusually great, in amount or quantity. 
Page 67, 1. 12. journal, a book containing an account of each day’s 
doings or transactions. 

Page 58, 1. 4. mechanic, an artisan ; one skilled in a trade. 

Page 59, 1. 28. commodiously, conveniently. 

Page 69, 1. 30. spacious, roomy. 

Page 60, 1. 2. flags, the name generally given to plants like the 
iris with large sword-shaped leaves. 

Page 60, 1. 8. disaster, misfortune. 

Page 60, 1. 26. victuals, food. 

Page 60, 1. 31. splintered, put into splints, the -thin pieces of 
wood used to keep a fractured limb in its proper position. 

Page 61, 1. 21. credible, that may be believed. 

Page 62, 1. 12. hooped, bound with bands or rings made of strips 
of wood or metal. 

Page 62, 1. 13. capacity, the necessary skill. 

Page 62, 1. 26. oakum, old rope untwisted into long strands. 

Page 66, 1. 2. disconsolate, sad ; hopeless. 

Page 65, 1. 8. breach of the water, the storm had caused the 
water to rise to an unusual height on the shore. ^ 

Page 66, 1. 1. precipice, a perpendicular cliff ; a very steep place. 
Page 66, 1. 10. loth, unwilling. 

Page 66, 1. 29. politics, the science relating to the government of 
a coxmtry. 



NOTES. 


S^9 

Page ^7,1. 36. diverted, turned aside. 

Page 69^*. 2. savoury, pleasant in taste and odour. 

• Page 69, 1. 8. ague, a fever with periodical cold and shivering fits. 

Page 69, 1. 13. broiled, cooked over a hot fire ; grilled. 

Page 70, 1. 2. distemper, illness. 

Page 70, 1. 23^ brant-goose or brent-goose, commonly called 
the wild black goose ; it is smaller than most geese, has a black head, 
^eoh, and bill, the neck with patches of small white stripes ; the bill 
somewhat resembles that of the* e*rgle. Formerly it was very common 
on the British coasts. * 

Page 71, 1. 17. cassava, the name of a West Indian plant from 
which tapioca is produced. 

Page 71, 1. 19. aloe, a tree-like plant the juice of the leaves of 
which IS of considerable value in medicine. 

Page 72, 1. 6, Barbary, the northern part of Africa and includes 
Tripoli, Tunis, Algeria and Morocco. 

Page 72, i. 7. flux, a discharge from the lining of the cavities of 
the body. 

Page 72, 1. 28. surveying, examining. 

Page 72, 1. 31. indefeasibly, without q^uestion or dispute, 
ft, Page 72, 1. 32. convey, to make over in law to his heirs. 

Page 72, 1, 33. manor, land belonging to a nobleman and kept for 
his own use. 

Page 72, 1, 34. cocoa-tree, a palm tree of tropical countries pro- 
ducing coco-nuts. 

Page 72, 1. 34. cjtron, a fruit resembling a lemon. 

Page 73, 1, 1. lime, the fruit of a kind of lemon or citron tree. 

Page 74, 1. 12. enamoured of, charmed with. 

Page 76, 1. 20. straitened, to be in want. 

Page 76, 1. 6. anniversary, the day of the year one or more 
years after an event happened. 

Page 77, 1. 1. drought, dryness ; want of rain or water. 

Page 77, 1. 4. vernal -equinox, the time in Spring {about the 
21st March) when the sun crosses the equator makmg day and mght 
of equal length. 

Page 77, 1. 27. pruned, trimmed by cutting oS useless or un- 
necessary boughs. 

Page 78, 1. 24. officious, too forward in ofiering assistance. 

Page 78, 1. 80. sallows and osiers, species of willow the boughs 
of which were formerly much used in the making of baskets. 

Page 80, 1. 3. descried, saw ; discovered with the eye. 

Page 80, 1. 25. Leadenhall Market. At the time of Defoe it 
was the principal provision market in London, and had been used as 
a general market for more than 300 years before his time. It came 
into possession of the city of London in 1411, and since then has under- 
gone many alterations and additions. An entirely new structure of 
elegant design was put up in 1881. It is now nsed principally as a 
market for fowls and game. 

Page 81, 1. 3. penguin, a water-fowl which is unable to fiy but 
is a clever diver. “ In diving its little plumeless wings are used as 
fins, but on the land as front legs.” See illustration on page 48. 

Page 82, 1. 11. hutch, literally a box, but here used afiectionately 
for his dwelling. 

Page 82, 1. 19. regale, to refresh. 



2^0 NOTES. 

Page 82, L 35. domestic, tame ; belonging to the hof^sef 

Pago 83, 1, 24. zenith, that point of the heavens oxactlfy overhead. 

Page 85, 1. 4. arable, fit for tillmg or ploughing 

Page 86, 1. 4. peck- loaf — a loaf made from a peck of flour. 

Page 86, 1. 7. notorious thieves in chains, the barbarous 
punishment here referred to was discontinued in 183^ 

Page 87, 1. 21. botch, to make clumsily. 

Page 88, 1. 14. bruised, crushed or pounded. 

Page 88, 1. 30, kiln, a large ovd& for frying corn, bricks, etci' 

Page 88, 1. 31. glazed, covered with a glassy surface. 

Page 88, 1. 33. pipkin, a small earthen vessel. 

Page 89, 1. 28. requisite, necessary, needful. 

Page 89, 1. 34. mortar, a vessel m which substances are pounded 
with a pestle. 

Page 91, 1. 18. whelming, covering completely. 

Page 91, 1. 30. husbandry, tilling ; work of a farmer. 

Page 94, 1. 24. reflection, the act of turning over in the mind or 
of thinking deeply. 

Page 95, 1. 6. preposterous, foolish ; absurd. 

Page 95, 1. 8. cedar, a large evergreen tree the wood of which is 
very durable and has a pleasant odour. 

Page 96, 1, 3. devices, schemes ; contrivances. 

Page 96, 1. 8. declivity, slope. 

Page 96, 1. 24, reluctancy, unwillingness. 

Page 96, 1 32. devotion, worshipping God ; prayer ; piety. 

Page 97, 1 1. eked, added to or increased 
Page 97, 1, 28. watch-coat, the heavy coats worn by sailors when 
on watch or on the lookout 

Page 98, 1. 23. indifferently, tolerably ; passably. 

Page 98, 1. 29. pent- house, a smaU building or shed projecting 
from a main building or wall. 

Page 99, 1. 1. posture, state or condition. 

Page 99, 1. 15. memorandum, something to be remembered. 

Page 99, 1. 26. terra firma, the continent as distinguished from 
the island. 

Page 101, 1. 2. discretion, prudence. 

Page 102, 1. 2. double the point, to pass or sail round the point. 
Page 102, 1 . 8. grappling, a small anchor with several claws 
or arms. 

Page 102, 1. 25. eddy, a current running back from the main 
stream and causing a kind of whirlpool. 

Page 102, 1. 34. pilot, a guide. 

Page 103, 1. 2. sluice of a mill, the stream flowing through the 
sluice-gates which regulate the flow of water. 

Page 103, 1. 8. paddlers, or paddles, the short broad oars used to 
propel a canoe. 

Page 103, 1, 25. meridian, the part of the heavens which the sun 
crosses at mid-day. 

Page 104, 1. 11. frigate, here means the canoe, but at the time 
this story was written a frigate was a war-ship carrying twenty-eight to 
sixty guns. 

Page 105, 1. 25. sociable, companionable. 

Page 106, 1. 21. filthy, badly shaped. 

Page 107, 1, 2. flay, to strip oS the skin. 



NOTES. 


9,11 

Page 3^08. L 14. sagacious, quick to perceive or discern. 

Page 108^1. 15» tractable, easily taught; docile. 

. Pago lOy, 1. 12. tetliered, fastened m such a manner as to allow 
freedom for feeding or grazjing. 

Page 110, 1. 2. essays, trials ; attempts. 

Page 110, 1. 19^ equipage, outfit. 

Page 110, 1. 85, spatter-dashes, leggings or gaiters. Prom this 
word we get*th 0 modern term “ spats,” 

Page 111, 1. 6. frog, a loo^ ^ 

Page 111, 1. 16. Mulattcf-llke, of the colour of a Mulatto, the off 
spring of black and white parents. 

Page 111, 1. 18. equinox, the word here means the equator, the 
imaginary line encircling the earth midway between the poles. 

Page 113, 1. 13. tolerable, moderately good m size. 

Page 113, 1. 25. squab, a well-stuffed couch or cushion. 

Page 115, 1. 4. apparition, a ghost or spectre. 

Page 115, 1. 25. chimera, a wild fancy. 

Page 115, 1. 29. delusion, an error ; a false belief. 

Page 116, 1. 23. similitude, likeness ; resemblance. 

Page 116, 1. 30. vapours, a nervous weakness, producing strange 
thoughts. 

Page 119, 1, 6, rational, inteUigent ; reasonable. 

Page 120, 1. 28. cannibal, one who eats human flesh. 

Page 121, 1. 9. degeneracy, the fall from a nobler nature , the 
process of becoming base or low in habits. 

Page 121, 1, 24. consolation, comfort. 

Page 122, 1. 20. reflection, the throwing back of the rays of light 
from a bright surface. 

Page 122, 1, 28. essayed, tried. 

Page 123, 1. 9. tinder-box, literally a box containing tinder, that 
is any material which would take fire readily from a spark usually pro- 
duced by striking a flint and steel together. Before the introduction of 
matches, about the close of the eighteenth century, the tinder-box, 
together with the flint and steel and sulphur-tipped splints of wood, 
were in very general use for obtaining “ a light.” 

Page 123, 1. 10. wild -fire, a composition made from mat^^rials 
which readily take fire. 

Page 123, 1. 10. pan of the lock of a musket, the part containing 
the train of powder placed between the charge and the ignition, or 
firing point. 

Pago 123, 1. 29. nauseous, loathsome ; unpleasing. 

Page 123, 1. 29. venomous, poisonous. 

Page 124, 1. 29. capitulate, to yield or surrender under certain 
conditions. 

Page 125, 1. 1. articulately, distinctly ; clearly. 

Page 126, 1. 16. extremity, greatest distress. 

Page 128, 1. 12. sedate, quiet. 

Page 129, 1. 4, premeditate, to think or meditate upon before- 
hand. ^ , 

Page 129, 1. 15. perturbation, disquiet or uneasiness of mind. 

Page 129, 1. 35. trice, probably from the word “ thrice,” hence the 
meaning — in the time one could count three ; instant. 

Page 134, 1, 2. quarter, the part of a ship’s side from the main- 
mi at to the stern. 



NOTES. 

Page 134, 1. 6. bow»sprit, the spar projecting over ^ho^bows of 
a ship. ’ ♦ 

Page 134, 1. 27. hold, the part of a ship in which the cargo is 
stowed. 

Page 136, 1. 2. doubloon, an almost obsolete Spanish gold coin 
worth 33s. to 35s. 

Page 136, 1. 3. a pound weight of gold, equivalent to about £60. 

Page 138, 1. 11. barbarous, brutal ; savage. 

Page 139, 1. 25. expedition, sp€;:<i ; haste. 

Page 143, 1. 23. comely, pleasing in ^Ippearance ; graceful. 

Page 143, 1. 32. vivacity, liveliness. 

Page 144, 1. 1. dun, of a dark colour. 

Page 146, 1. 2. jerkin, a short jacket or waistcoat with sleeves. 

Page 150, 1. 21. unfeigned, real ; sincere. 

Page 152, 1. 10, draught and reflux, the flowing in and out of 
the tide. 

Page 162, 1. 11. Oroonoko, the river Orinoco, which flows chiefly 
through Yenezuela, the most northerly state of South America. Its 
total length is 1660 miles, or seven times the length of the Thames ; of 
its many mouths seven are navigable ; half-way to the sea it is four 
miles wide. The waterway mainly used by ships varies in width from 
three and three-quarter miles to twenty-three miles. 

Page 152, 1. 14. Trinidad, the most southerly of the British West 
Indian Islands. It was discovered by Columbus on his third voyage in 
1498, and the Spaniards eflected a settlement on it in 1632. It fell into 
possession of the British in 1797. 

Page 162, 1. 23. St. Martha, for St. Martin, one of the most 
northerly of the Leeward chain of islands. It now belongs to the French 
and Dutch. 

Page 162, 1. 80. cruelties of the Spaniards. Mexico was con- 
quered in 1521 by Cortes, and Peru by Pizarro in 1633-38. In each 
case the conquerors committed many gross cruelties, and practised 
many base deceptions in attaining their ambitious ends. 

Page 163, 1. 20, hanger, a short sword curved at the point. 

Page 158, 1. 16. fustic, a West Indian tree formerly much used as 
a dye. The Nicaragua wood referred to is very probably logwood, a 
product of the country and a well-known dyewood. 

Page 160, 1. 4. jibbed, shifted from one side or tack to another 
to catch the wind. 

Page 163, 1, 9, fetched a compass, went round in a circuit ; 
made a detour. 

Page 166, 1, 17. Christianas, Latin word for Christian. 

Page 166, 1. 22. Espagnole, a Spaniard. 

Page 169, 1. 9. ecstasy, excessive joy. 

Page 169, 1. 9. filial affection, the love of a son for his parent. 

Page 172, 1. 35. interpreter, one who translates or explains the 
language of two or more persons who are unacquainted with each 
other’s speech. 

Page 174, 1. 17. Rio de la Plata (Plata is the Spanish for silver), 
an estuary on the east coast of South America ; it is 140 miles wide at 
its mouth. On the south bank is the city of Buenos Ayres, and 
on the north Monte Video. 

Page 174j 1. 17. Havana, or Havannah, the capital of the Island 
of Cuba, which is now an independent republic. 



NOTES. 


Page 174 1. 8. 
Page 17|| 1. 14. 
by^gpaniams. 
Page 175, 1. 18. 
Page 176, 1. 14. 


Infieretit, inborn and nncbangmg. 

New Spain, the parts of Ameiica then ooeupied 


Page 175, 1. 18. candour, openness; without disguise. 

Page 176, 1. 14. Christian Colonies of America. These powers 
and possessions ^out the year 1700 were : — 

Britain, New England Colonies (Virginia, 1607, Massachusetts, 
Maryland, etc ), Hudson’s Bay Territory (1670), Guayana (or 
Guiana), and tne islande^iNewfoundland, Barbadoes, St. Elitts 
(1623), Antigua, Montserrat, and Jamaica (1665). 

Spam, Mexico, Peru, Ghih, New Granada, Cuba, and Florida 
F7 ante, St. Lawrence district with its capital Quebec ; part of 
Louisiana near the mouth of the Mississippi; Cayenne, and 
the islands of Martinique and Guadaloupe. 

Portugal, Brazil. 

Butch, Manhattan Island (present site of New York) and adjoin- 
ing mainland ; Guayana (Guiana). 

Sweden, a small settlement on the Delaware river. 

Page 177, 1. 14. indefatigable, unwearied; unceasing in effort. 

Page 177, 1. 29. Alicante, a town on the east coast of Spain ; it 
is the third seaport in the kingdom, and famous for its wines and 
grapes. 

Page 182, 1. 9. outrageous, furious , injuring by violence. 

Page 182, 1. 10. insolent, rude and overbearing. 

Page 182, 1. 81. quicksand, a sandbank which changes its 


Page 182, 1. 9. 
Page 182, 1. 10. 
Page 182, 1. 81. 
position. 

Page 184, 1. 5. 
Page 184, 1. 31. 
on board ship. 
Page 186, 1. 34. 
Page 187, 1. 19. 
Page 187, 1. 24. 
Page 188, 1. 1. 
Page 188, 1. 22. 
Page 188, 1, 24. 


uncouth, odd. 

mutinied, risen against authority m the army or 


Page 186, 1. 34. prejudice, injury or harm of any kind. 

Page 187, 1. 19. incorrigible, had beyond reform. 

Page 187, 1. 24. legitimates, makes lawful. 

Page 188, 1. 1. animated, enlivened. 

Page 188, 1. 22. abhorrence, shrinking from with horror. 

Page 188, 1, 24. Jamaica, the most important of the British West 
Indian Islands. Conquered by the British in 1655. 

Page 190, 1. 1 . desperation, disregard of danger. 

Page 192, 1. 80. conspiracy, a banding together for an evil purpose. 
Page 194, 1. 7. pinioned, bound by fastening the arms. 

Page 196, 1. 29, stratagem, a trick; a plan for deceiving an 


Page 192, 1. 80, 
Page 194, 1. 7. 
Page 196, 1. 29, 
enemy. 

Page 197. 1.10, 
Page 199, 1. 4. 
Page 199, 1. 5. 
Page 192, 1. 23, 
force. 

Page 200, 1. 9. 


to a tittle, exactly; to a nicety, 
lamentable, sad ; pitiful, 
enchanted, in the power of witches or spirits, 
ambuscade, a hidden or concealed attacking 


Page200, 1. 9. generalissimo, an Italian word for the chief 
general of an army or of separate armies. 

Page 200, 1. 9. lieutenant-general, the one next in rank to the 
general. 

Page 200, 1. 15. parley, a talk or conference with an enemy m 
war time. 

Page 200, 1. 18. capitulate, surrender. 

Page 201, 1. 10, at discretion, without conditions. 



NOTES. 


Pag© 201, 1. 22, expostoSated, roasonod earnestly wiyi because of 
their wrong-doings. ^ 

Page 202, 1. i. fiction, a false or imaginary story. 

Page 202, 1. 6. Intercede, to plead for one. 

Page 202, 1. 22. project, a plan ; scheme. 

Page 202, 1. 31, dismaS, gloomy ; depressing. 

Page 203, 1. 11. engfagentieiit, promise. 

Page 203, X. 16. Imprecations, solemn oaths. 

Page 203, 1. 29. hostages, prisr*?f^rs kept by an enemy as ptedges 
for the fulfilment of a treaty. 

Page 204:, 1. 29. garrison, soldiers guarding a fortress. 

Page 205, 1, 11. hatches, the doors covering the openings from 
one deck to another or into the hold. 

Page 206, L 14, scuttle, a hatchway or opening in the deck of a 
ship. 

Page 208, X. 12. Madeira, the largest of a group of islands in the 
North Atlantic, about 390 miles from the coast of Morocco. It belongs 
to Portugal. At present it is much frequented by invalids because of 
its excellent climate. Its chief export is wine bearing the name of the 
island. 

Page 209, 1. 1. refractory, unmanageable ; unruly. 

Page 209, 1. 4. malefactors, criminals. 

Page 209, 1. 34. taken in the fact, taken when they wore in 
reality pirates and acting as such. 

Page 212, 1. 13. amendment, refomi. 

Page 212, 1. 14. whipped and pickled, an old but very cruel 
method of punishment ; after the whipping and when the flesh was 
law, brine was put on the bruised places, causing intense pain. 

Page 212, 1. 25. relics, mementoes or souvenirs. 

Page 213, 1. 2. barco-longo, longboat, Baico is the Spanish 
word for boat. See note p. 11, 1. 11. 



QUESTIONS 


1. Describe in your own words the shipwreck in the Yarmoufeh 
Boads. 

2 . On shipboard what is meant by taking an observation ? What 
instruments are used, and why? 

3. Give an account of Crusoe’s first trading adventure, and explain 
how the result of this voyage led to his after troubles. 

4. ^ Explain the meaning of the following terms, and make sentences 
containing at least two of them : — ^Anchor had come homo ; strike the 
topmasts; tided it up the river ; sea-room , a lee-shore ; sprung a leak ; 
kept a large ofling ; crowded to the utmost. 

5. Write an account of the encounter with the SaUee rover. 

6* Why did traders visit the coast of Guinea ^ What parts of the 
coast now belong to Britain, and what are the chief articles of 
commerce ? 

7. Briefly mention the incidents which occurred after the escape 
from Sallee and arrival in Brazil. 

8. Why did European sailing vessels bound for South America first 
make for the Cape Verd Islands ? 

9. Give an account of Crusoe’s life in Brazil. How did ho “ act the 
fool to his ovm interests ” when in that country. 

I o. What is the value of : — A piece of eight ; a doubloon ; a Brazilian 
ducat ; an ounce of gold, 

11. Clearly explain the following nautical terms: — ^Mainsheet; 
sprit-sail-yard ; q^uarter ; yards ; shoulder-of-mutton sail ; buoy ; foretop- 
sail; forecastle; steerage; hatchway. 

12. Make a sketch of a two-masted sailing ship and include as 
many as you can of the things mentioned in the previous question : 
also show— the bowsprit, anchor and chains, the helm, the topmasts 
and the rigging. 

13. Describe Crusoe’s second shipwreck and his escape from 
drowning. 

14. Draw a rough sketch of the Atlantic Ocean, and mark on it all 
the places mentioned in this story. 

15. Write a life of Daniel Defoe. 

1 6. It has been stated that the story of Robinson Crusoe is “ an 
emblem of the life of the author.” As far as you can, show that this 
statement is accurate. 

17. Give the meaning of the following words and phrases and make 
sentences containing each one -.—Subsistence ; procuration ; magazine , 
coup de grAce; W. by S. sun ; Savanna; magistrate , freight. 

18. Give instances of where Crusoe acted with resource, fore- 

22.1 



2^6 QUESTIONS. 

filioTiglit, and determination, and also where the opposite q’' alities were 
shown. 

19. What considerations guided Crusoe in fixing the positiosTof 
his dwelling? Describe what he called his “castle,” and how it was 
fortified. 

20. Mention incidents in the story which provecthe truth of the 
proverb, “ Necessity is the mother of invention.” 

21. How was Crusoe able to raise two crops of corn in one yearSi^ 
What IS the proper time for sowing in such a climate and why ? 

325. Contrast the climate of the southern West Indies with that of 
England. 

33. Tell in your own words what is related in the story of the making 
of earthenware ; the baking of the fi.rst loaf of bread ; and the construc- 
tion of baskets. 

34. Give an account of the finding of “ Friday.” 

35. “Gratitude is no inherent virtue in the nature of man.” 
Explain this sentence and state under what circumstances it was used 
in the story. 

36. Describe the inhabitants of the Caribbean Sea. How did they 
differ from the African negro ? 

37. How might Crusoe have provided himself with food and 
clothing if he had obtained nothing from the ship ? 

38. Describe the hero of the story in his home-made clothes as ho 
took his daily walks abroad. 

39. What difficulties had to be overcome in raising the first crop of 
corn on the “ barren island ” ? What old English practice is referred 
to in this connection? 

30. Show that it was not altogether a misfortune for our “ wrecked 
mariner ” to have been unskilled in many ways, and short of proper 
tools, and to spend a great amount of time and labour in making even 
simple things. 

31, What European nations had settlements in America when this 
story was written? Name the 'settlements of each, and state the 
causes which mduced these nations to add to their foreign possessions. 

33. Describe the characters of the sea captains mentioned in the 
story, and account for the similarity in their outstanding traits. 

33. Give an account of the capture of the mutineers and of the 
re- taking of the English ship. 

34* Briefly sketch the life and character of “ Friday.” 

35, Show from his story that Defoe possessed groat skill in word- 
painting from nature, and of investing the commonest incidents with a 
charm of reality. 

36. Mention other works written by Defoe, and give an account of 
any two of them which treat of different subjects. 


Till BNB 

■h 



PJEtlNtluD BY WULIAM CLOYiES AND SONS, LIMITED, LONDON AND DrOCLBS 




