



I^XQ 












^ t— wo - \v^ o 



INTRODUCTION 

Among the recollectiojis of childhood that 'one treasures 
with an infiiiite gratitude is that delightful occasion when 
one first canie under the magic spell of Robinson Crusoe. 
A very precious memory indeed 1 But tlie.joy that may 
come witli the recapture of those exquisite* hours is 
in itself sufficient justification for the renewal of the 
acquaintance, or rather would we say friendship — ^for 
was not poor Robinson Crusoe an ilitimate friend of our 
childhood ? 

To read again a book that held us close in thrall when 
we were young is ratlier a hazardous undertaking. Too 
often the imp of disillusionment lurks in every page. Tlie 
faults we never paused to*notice on that first entranced 
reading — ^how long ago ! — now stand out in disquieting 
prominence. The incidents that once thrilled us now 
seem strangely commonplace. How few of the classics 
of ^boyhood can stand tlie test I 

Kingston or Ballantyne the brave, 

• Or Cooper of the wood and wave.” • 

Alas I the Critical eye of middle age is apt to discover 
tliat tliese idols of youth had feet of very common clay ; 
but Defoe, beyond all cavil or doubt, is placed among 
the Immortals. His famous story holds an inexpressible 
charm even for the blase reader of modem novels, should 
any such person be induced to pick up this old-time tale. 
The plot — ^if plot there be — ^may seem absurdly simple ; 
but it is the beautiful simplicity of classical tragedy. 
Certainly none will dispute the craftsmanship by which 



6 


INTRODUCTION 


Defoe maintains, without the aid of a multiplicity of 
characters, the reader’s interest in this simple drama of 
solitude enacted on a lonely island. 

The secret of Crusoe's everlasting appeal to all classes 
of readers lies entirely in this subtle craft of the story- 
teller. It is Defoe's outstanding merit that he possessed 
the happy knack of merging his own individuality in 
that of a fictitious creation. It is a faculty common to 
all great story-tellers. Dickens possessed it to a remark- 
able degree ; while at work on a novel he would often 
rise from his desk and pace the floor, declaiming with a 
wealth of gesture the dialogue of his characters. If 
Defoe did not go to such extremes he was no less successful 
in assuming for the time being the personality of his 
imaginary creations. As Leigh Hunt says. “ the inhabitant 
of Crusoe's isle is Defoe." That astonishing verisimilitude 
which characterises everything he wrote enabled him to 
convey the necessary atmosphere of reality to the 
strangest happenings. 

Robinson Crusoe is a perfectly normal Englishman 
reacting to his unusual environment in a perfectly normal 
manner. Throughout the twenty-eiglit years of his 
enforced exile he faces his daily trials and tribulations 
with resource, with fortitude, even, one might add, with 
typically Anglo-Saxon stolidity. 

It is remarkable that Defoe, creator of Singleton, 
Colonel Jack, and other thorough-going scoundrels, 
elected to give Robinson Crusoe a highly moral purpose. 
Stress is laid on the moral regeneration of the castaway. 
He is resigned to, and even rejoices in, his solitary lot. 
He finds true happiness in overcoming the difficulties 
that beset him on all sides. This virtue of the book was 
highly appreciated by Rousseau. 

" Since we must have books," wrote the famous 
author of Emile, " there is one w-hich to my mind furnishes 
the finest of treatises on education. My Emile shall 
read this book before any other : it shall for a long time 



INTRODUCTION 


7 

be his entire library and shall al\vays liold an honourable 
place. So long as^ our taste is unspoiled we shall enjoy 
reading it.” And in that last sentence there lies a whole 
worl(i of truth. 

No such ’praise was forthcoming from Defoe’s own 
contemporaries in literature. Their attitude makes 
ratlier a curious fragment of literary Jiistory. Dryden, 
Swift, Steele, and Addison treated him with contempt. 
Notable exceptions, however, were I’opc and Johnson ; 
the latter thought highly of Robinson Crusoe, ranking it 
with Don Quixote and The Pilgrim's I Progress. 

Rightly or wrongly Defoe was looked upon ;is^a rather 
unscrupulous literary tidventurcr ; one, moreover, who 
had readily played a part in many shady political in- 
trigues. His career certainly had ntany ups and downs. 
Born in Cripplegate, London, in 1639, the son of a butcher, 
he engaged in various trades, at one time being the 
owner of a tile-works. As a young man he took part 
in the rebellion of the ill-fated Monmouth. Later he 
turned his attention to joTirnalism, a profession ^len in 
its infancy, and particularly to tliat i)opular literary 
occupation of the period — pamphleteering. His famous 
pamphlet, The Shortest IVay with Dissenters, infuriated 
his opponents. Defoe was tried at the Old Bailey, sen- 
tenced to Imprisonment in Newgate, aiul to stand in the 
pillory on three days; but this part of the punishment 
was turned into a triumph by the citizcjis, who ftstooned 
the pillory with garlands of flowers. 

While conffticcl in Newgate Defoe Ciuitrived t(j bring 
out his famous Review, writing practically the whole of 
it himself. In the files of the Review are hidden hundreds 
of essays upon every conceivable subject. Defoe was, in 
fact, one of the most industrioiis men of letters that 
ever lived. His writings are so numerous tliat there is 
little probability of their publication in a collected 
edition. He is reputed to have written over two 
hundred volumes, l^esidcs innumerable articles. But the 



8 


INTRODUCTION 


greatness of the man is best gauged by that remarkable 
series of romances which, starting in 1719 mth the 
publication of Robinson Crusoe, includdfe the Memoirs of 
a Cavalier (which even the Earl of Chatliam beljpved 
to be authentic history). Captain Singleton, 1^20 ; Moll 
Flanders, The History of the Plague, 1722 ; and Roxana, 
1724. 

Defoe, as bvery one knows,* found the material for 
his story ready to hand in the strange adventure of a 
Scottish sailor, Alexander Selkirk. The truth is that 
some actual Jiappening on which his fiction might rest 
was necessary to put the writer completely at his ease ; 
for the genius of Defoe, like that ,of Shakespeare, refused 
to be hampered by the disagreeable necessity of inventing 
plots ; and in each ■ case the finished masterpiece bore 
little resemblance to the original source. • 

In 1704, Selkirk had accompanied Dampier, tlie famous 
navigator, on a voyage to the South Seas. As a result 
of a dispute with his captain he was put ashore, at his 
own re^^uest, on the lonely icland of Juan Fernandez, 
three hundred miles west of Valparaiso ; for four years 
and four months he remained on the island, being even- 
tually rescued by a ship of the Royal Navy. His story 
was first related in Roger's Cruising Voyage Round the 
World, published in 1712. Apparently the adventilre 
soon became the talk of the town. Soon afterwards 
Steele contributed to The Englishman a paper on Selkirk : 

a name,"- he wrote, "familiar to men of curiosity." 
And among men of curiosity we may assuredly number 
Daniel Defoe, well-called the father of journalism. 

Scenting the romantic possibilities of the story which 
he had learned from Selkirk's own lips at the Red Lion 
Tavern in Bristol, Defoe set to work and in 1719 the first 
part of The Life and Strange Adventures of Robinson 
Crusoe, Mariner of York was published by William 
Taylor of Paternoster Row — appropriately enough at the 
sign of the Ship in Full Sail. 



INTRODUCTION 


9 

Defoe was at considerable pains to disguise his indebted- 
ness to Selkirk. Juan Fernandez is not mentioned. 
Crusoe's Isle is ^aced near the " mouth or gulf of the 
mighty River Orinooko/' between the mainland and 
Trinidad. The duration of Crusoe’s stay on the island 
extends over twenty-eight years. Defoe gave the story 
to the world as authentic history, naively remarking in 
his original preface ^that he believes tlie* thing to be 
"a just history of fact, neither is there any appearance 
of fiction in it 1” 

Robinson Crusoe was at once a popular i^uccess despite 
the scorn of the critics, and within a year Defcie brought < 
out a second part which, as is the nature of sequels, 
proved rather disappointing. In a further effort to exploit 
his success he published the now* deservedly forgotten 
Serious Reflections on the Life of Robinson Crusoe. 

Defoe’s success did not improve his relations with his 
fellow authors. He was happily indifferent to their 
opinions. Shunned by the literary coteries, practically 
an outcast from respectable society, he went his#solitary 
way, that most tragic figure — a man with no friends. 
Indeed, the story of Robinson Crusoe may be interpreted 
£LS an allegory of his own life, beset as it was with many 
misfortunes. From the profits of his writings he built 
Inmself af house at Newington, to which, with his three 
daughters, he retired. Pecuniary troubles, however, 
again overtook him, and he was arresf;pd for debt. After 
his release he went to live in Moorfields, where he died 
April 24th, *1731, and was buried in Bunhill Fields, 
London. 

Fifty years ago an obelisk was erected over his grave 
from a fund raised by tlie boys and girls of England, 
readers — and lovers — of Robinson Crusoe. Selkirk, the 
inspirer of the world-famous romance, is commemorated 
by two memorials. A statue, showing the castaway 
clad in Crusoe’s familiar goat-skin clothing, stands in his 
native village of Largo, Fife ; and half a world away, on 



10 


INTRODUCTION 


a lonely hilltop of Juan. Fernandez, where often he had 
kept his solitary vigil, some officers of the British Navy 
have placed a tablet to his memory. * 

The huge circle of readers who welcomed Robinson 
Crusoe had their verdict amply endorsed by the considered 
judgment of such distinguished writers as Scott, Macaulay, 
Hazlitt, and Leigh Hunt. The nineteenth century was 
immeasurably kinder — and more just — in its judgment 
of Defoe than the eighteenth had been. Most enthusiastic 
of all was the generous tribute of Walter Savage Landor : 

Achilles and Homer will be forgotten before Crusoe 
and Defoe. Little good can be done by extravagant 
comparisons. It is sufficient to add that Defoe will 
alw'ays make a powerful appeal to readers, attracted by 
what Lamb called the homeliness of his writing and by 
his intense humanity. In Robinson Crusoe he has given 
the world — and particularly the wofld’s children — the 
best-loved of all romances. Surely that is fame enough 
for any man. 


FrEDLUICK DUNli.\R. 



CONTENTS 


CHAP. 

I. My Birth and Parentage — At Nineteen 
elope with a Schoolfellow, aiKl go to 
Sea — Ship founders — Crew saved ^nd 
landed near Yarmouth 

• 

II. MH.ke a successful voyage to Guinea. — 
Taken by Sallee Rover — Escape with 
a Moresco boy 

III, Voyage South — See Savages — Shoot 

pard — Arrive at the Brazils, and settle 
as a Planter — V'oyage to Guinea — 
Ship wrecked off a desolate Island — All 
• , lost but myself 

IV. , Swim to the Wreck, and get a quantity of 

Stores — Moralise upon my situation — 
The Ship totally lost 

V. I begin a Journal — Various Schemes to 
make Tools, etc. — Begin to build a 
house — Discover Corn — Earthquake 
and Storm 

VI. Ship driven farther aground — Procure 
quantities of Stores from Wreck — 

II 


PAGB 


15 


30 


44 


65 


89 



CONXENtS 


PAG* 


Id 

CHAP. 

Catch a Turtle — 111 of a Fever and 
Ague — Terrible Dream and serious 
Reflections — Find a. Bible in a Sea- 
man’s Chest 104 

VII. I begin survey of Island — Discover Tobacco, 
Grapes, Lemons, * a^d Sugar-canes, 
wild, but no human Inhabitants — My 
Cat returns with Kittens — Shut myself 
up for the Wet Season 120 

VIII. Make second Survey of Island — Catch a 
Parrot, 'which I teach to speak — ■ 

Mode of sleeping — Find other side of 
the Island covered with Turtle and 
Sea-fowl — Catch and tame a young 
Kid 13 1 

IX. Make Earthenware — Mode of Baking — 

Build a Boat — Unable to get it to the 
Water — Ink and Biscuit exhausted, 
and Clothes worn out — Contrive Dress 
of Skins 144 

X. I float Canoe, and am driven out fo Sea — 
Reach the shore with difficulty — Fall 
asleep, am awakened, by a mysterious 
Voice 162 

XI. Description of my Dwelling and Enclosures 
— Dreadful alarm on seeing Footprints 
on the Shore — Take every precaution 176 



CONTENTS 


CllAP. 

XII. I observe a Canoe out. at Sea — Find the 
remniint of a Cannibal feast — Horror 
thereon — Double arm myself — Dis- 
•cover a Cave in which I form my 
Magazine — Fears of the Savages begin 
to subside 
• 

XIII. My Twenty-third Year of Residence — 
Discover Savages round a Fire hold- 
ing a Cannibal feast — Determine to 
destroy the next Party — A Ship*lost 
off the Island — Board the Wreck and 
secure Stores 

XIV An Extraordinary Dream — Discover five 
Canoes of Savages on Shore — Observe 
two taken to be eaten — I save the 
life of one — (Christen him Friday, afid 
make him my Servant 225 

XV. I civilise Friday — He considers my gun 
an intelligent Being — Begins to talk 
English — A Dialogue — I instruct him 
in Religion — He describe^ some White 
Men who still lived in his Couritry 244 

XVI. I determine to go to the Continent — 
Friday ajid I construct a Boat — 
Friday brings intelligence of Savages 
on Shore — Friday and I save the life 
of a Spaniard — Discover a poor 
Indian in a Canoe, who turns out 
to be Friday’s Father. 26! 


13 

PACK 


I9I 


210 



14 


CONTENTS 


CHAP. PAGB 

XVll. I learn of more Spaniards among the 
Savages — The Spaniard and Friday’s 
Father sail to the Continent — an 
English ship off the Island — Boaf 
comes on shore with three Prisoners 
— Discover myself to the Prisoners — 
’Secure the Mutineers 280 

XVIII. Ship signals for her Boat^ — Receives no 
cinswer — Sends another — We secure 
this Boat’s Crew, and recover the 
Ship * 298 

XIX. I leave the Island, and arrive in England 
— Go to Yorkshire, and find most of my 
Family dead — Go to Lisbon respecting 
my Estate in Brazil — Meet an old 
Friend — We set out for England over 
land — Annoyed by Wolves on the 
Road 318 

XX. Battle betwixt Friday and a Bear — 
Terrible Fight with Wolves — Arrive 
in England safely, and settle there, 

■ and rnarr)' 


335 



CHAPTER I 


My Birth and Pfirentage — At Nineteen tlope with a 
Schoolfellow, and* go to Sea — Ship founders — Crew 
saved and landed near Yarmouth. 

I WAS born in the year 1632, in the cityiof York, of a 
good family, though not of that country, ihy father 
being a foreigner of Btemen, who settled first at Hull. 
He got a good estate by merchfindise, and, leaving 
off his trade, lived afterwards at York ; from whence 
he had married my mother, whose relations were 
named Rohinsonf a very good family in that country, 
and from whom I was called Robinson Kreniznaer ; 
but, by the usual corruption of words in England, we 
are now called, nay, we ’call ourselves, and \^ite our 
name, Crusoe ; and so my companions always called 
me. 

I had two elder brothers, one of which was lieutenant- 
colonel tp an English regiment of foot in Flanders, 
formerly commanded by the famous Colonel Lockhart, 
and was killed at the battle near Dunkirk against the 
Spaniards. What became of my .second brother I 
never knew, ^any more than my father and mother did 
know what was become of me. 

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to 
any trade, my head began to be filled very early with 
rambling thoughts. Jly father, who was very ancient, 
had given me a competent share of learning, as far as 
house-education and a country free school generally 
go, and designed me for the law ; but I would be 
satisfied with nothing but going to sea ; and my in- 
clination to this led me so strongly against the will, 
*5 



i6 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

nay, the commands of my father, and against all the 
entreaties and persuasions of my mother and other 
friends, that there seemed to be something fatal in that 
propension of nature, tending directly to the life of 
misery which was to befall me. * . • 

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious 
and excellent counsel against what he foresaw was my 
design. He palled me one mprning into his chamber, 
where he was confined by the gout, and expostulated 
very warmly with me upon tms subject. He asked 
me what reasons, more than a mere wandering inclina- 
tion, I had for leaving my father’s house and my native 
country r where I might be well introduced, and had 
a prospect of raising my fortulie by application and 
industry, with a life of ease and pleasure. He told me 
it was only men of aesperate fortunes on the ojie hand, 
or of aspiring superior fortunes on the other, who went 
abroad upon adventures, to rise by enterprise, and 
make themselves famous in undertakings of a nature 
out of the common road ; that these things were all 
either foo far above me, or tob far below me ; and that 
mine was the middle state, or what might be called 
the upper station of low life, which he had found, by 
long experience, was the best state in the world the 
most suited to human happiness, not exposed to the 
miseries and hardships, Ae labour and sufferings of 
the mechanic part of mankind, and not embarrassed 
with the pride, luxury ambition, and envy of thfi upper 
part of mankind. He told me I might judge of the 
happiness of this state bv this one thing, viz., that 
this was the state of life wnich all other people envied ; 
that kings had frequently lamented the miserable 
consequences of being bom to great things, and wished 
they had been placed in the middle of the two extremes, 
oetween the mean and the great ; that the Wise Man 
gave his testimony to this, as the just standard of 
true felicity, when he prayed to have neither poverty 
nor riches. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 17 

t 

He bade me observe it, and I should always find, 
that the calamities of life were shared among the upper 
and lower part of mankind; but that the middle 
station had the fewest disasters, and was not exposed 
to s« many^ vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of 
mankind : hay, they were not subjected to so many 
distempers and uneasiness, either of body or mind, 
as those were, who, by vicious living, luxury, and 
extravagances on oiuj hand, or by hard labour, want 
of necessaries, and mean and insufficient diet, on the 
other hand, bring distempers upon themselves by the 
natural consequences of their way of Jiving ; that 
the middle station of life was calculated fof all kind • 
of virtues, and all kind of enjoyments ; that peace 
and plenty were the handmaids of a middle fortune ; 
that temperance, moderation, quietness, health, society, 
all agreeable diversions, and all desirable pleasures, 
were the blessings attending the middle station of 
life ; that this way men went silently and smoothly 
through the world, and comfortably out of it ; not 
embarrassed with the lartDOurs of the hands c* of the 
head ; not sold to a life of slavery for daily bread, 
or harassed with perplexed circumstances, which rob 
the soul of peace and the body of rest ; not enraged 
with the passion of envy, or the secret burning lust 
of ambitibn for mat things — but in easy circumstances 
sliding gently tnrough the world, and sensibly tasting 
the s\teets of living without the bitter ; feeling that 
tliey are happy, and learning, by every day's experi- 
ence, to kncfw it more sensibly. 

After this he pressed me earnestly, and in the most 
affectionate manner, not to play the young man, or 
to precipitate myself into miseries, which nature, and 
the station of life I was bom in, seemed to have pro- 
vided against — ^that I was under no necessity of seeking 
my bread— that he would do well for me, and 
endeavour to enter me fairly into the station of life 
which he had been^jl2SL..xec^mending to me; and 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


i8 

that if I was not very easy and happy in the world, 
it must be my mere fate, or fault, that must hinder it ; 
and that he should have nothing to answer for, having 
thus discharged his duty, in warning me against 
measures which he knew would ‘be to my hurt. ‘In a 
word, that as he would do very kind things for me, if 
I would stay and settle at home as he directed, so he 
would not have so much hand in my misfortunes as 
to give me any encouragement to go away — and, to 
close all, he told me, I had my elder brother for my 
example, to whom he had used the same earnest 
persuasions tp keep him from going into the Low 
» Country u'ars, but could not prevail, his young desires 
prompting him to run into the* army, where he was 
killed — and though he said he would not cease to 
pray for me, yet he 'would venture to say to me, that 
if I did take this foolish step, God would ribt bless 
me — and I would have leisure hereafter to reflect 
upon having neglected his counsel, when there might 
be none to assist in my recovery. 

I obsfrved, in this last part of his discourse, which 
was truly prophetic, though I suppose my father did 
not know it to be so himself — I say, I observed the 
tears run down his face very plentifully, especially 
when he spoke of my brother who was killed ; and 
that when he spoke of my having leisure t6 repent, 
and none to assist me, he was so moved that he broke 
off the discourse, and told me his heart was so full he 
could say nc more to me. 

I was sincerely afflicted with this discourse — as, 
indeed, who could be otherwise ? — and I resolved not 
to think of going abroad any more, but to settle at 
home according to my father’s desire. But, alas ! a 
few days wore it all off ; and, in short, to prevent any 
of my father’s further importunities, in a few weeks 
after, I resolved to run quite away from him. How- 
ever, I did not act so hastily neither, as the first heat 
of my resolution prompted, but I took my mother at 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


19 

a lime when I thought her a little pleasanter than 
ordinary, and told her that, my thoughts were so 
entirely bent upon seeing the world, that I should 
never settle to anything with resolution enough to go 
thrtmgh with it, and my father had better give me his 
consent, tKan force me to go without it — that I was 
now eighteen years old, which was too late to go 
apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an attorney, that I 
was sure if T did, I. should never serve ’out my time, 
but I should Certainly run away from my master 
before my time was out and go to sea — and if she would 
speak to my father to let me go one vpyage abroad, 
if I came home again, and did not like it, t would go^ 
no more, and I wouid promise, by double diligence, 
to recover the time I had lost. 

This put my mother into a grt’at passion ; she told 
me she Knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my 
father upon any such subject — that he knew too well 
what was my interest, to give his consent to any such 
thing so much for my hurt — and that she wondered how 
I could think of any such thing, after the di^ourse I 
had had with my father, and such kind and tender ex- 
pressions as she knew my father had used to me — and 
that, in short, if I would ruin myself, there was no help 
for me ; but I might depend I should never have their 
consent to it — that, for her part, she would not have 
so much hand in my destruction — and I should never 
have it to say, that my mother was willing, when my 
father was not. 

Though ray mother refused to move it to my father, 
yet I heard afterwards, that she reported all the dis- 
course to him ; and that my father, after showing a 
great concern at it, ’said to her, with a sigh, “That 
boy might be happy if he would stay at home ; but 
if he goes abroad, he will be the most miserable wretch 
that ever was born — I can give no consent to it." 

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke 
loose, though in the meantime I continued obstinately 



20 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


deaf to all proposals of settling to business, and 
frequently expostulating with my father and mother 
about their being so positively determined against 
what they knew my inclinations prompted me to. 
But being one day at Hull, whither I went casuaiUy, 
and without any purpose of making an ‘ elopement 
that time — but, 1 say, being there, and one of my 
companions being going by sea to London, in his 
father's ship, and prompting me ‘to go with him, with the 
common allurement of a seafaring man, that it should 
cost me nothing for my passage, I consulted neither 
father nor mother any more, nor so much as sent 
•them word of it ; but leaving them to hear of it as 
they might, without asking Ge*d's blessing or my 
father's, without any consideration of circumstances 
or consequences, and in an ill hour, God knows, on 
the ist of September, 1651, 1 went on board* a ship 
bound for London- Never any young adventurer's 
misfortunes, 1 believe, began sooner, or continued 
longer, than mine. The ship was no sooner got out 
of the HfJinber, than the wind*^ began to blow, and the 
sea to rise in a most frightful manner ; and as I had 
never been at sea before, I was most inexpressibly 
sick in body, and terrified in mind. 1 began now seri- 
ously to reflect upon what I had done, and how justly 
I was overtaken by the judgment of Heaven* for my 
wicked leaving my father^s house, and abandoning my 
duty ; all the goocj counsel of my parents, my father's 
tears, and my mother's entreaties, came now fresh 
into my mind ; and my conscience, whibh was not 
yet come to the pitch of hardness to which it has been 
since, reproached me with the contempt of advice, 
and the breach of my duty to God and my father. 

All this while the storm increased, and the sea went 
very high, though nothing like what I have seen many 
times since — ^no, nor what I saw a few days after : 
but it was enough to affect me then, who was but a 
young sailor, and had never known anything of the 



ROBINSOK CRUSOE at 

• 

matter. I expected every wave would have swallowed 
us up, and that every time the ship fell down, as I 
thought it did in the trough or hollow of the sea, we 
should never rise more. In this agony of mind, I 
made many vows and resolutions, that if it would 
please God to spare my life in this one voyage, if ever 
I got once my foot upon dry land again, I would go 
directly home to my father, and never set it into a 
ship again while I lived ; but I would take his advice, 
and never run myself into such miseries as these any 
more. Now I saw plainly the goodness of his observa- 
tions about the middle station of life, bow easy, how 
comfortable he had lived all his days, ancb never had* 
been exposed to tempests at sea, nor trouble on shore; 
and, in short, I resolved that I would, like a true 
repenting prodigal, go home to Tny father. 

These wise and sober thoughts continued all the 
while the storm continued, and indeed some time after; 
but the next day the wind was abated, and the sea 
calmer, and I began to be a little inured to it. How- 
ever, I was very grave* for all that day, bci«ig also a 
little sea-sick still; but towards night the weather 
cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a charming 
fine evening followed ; the sun went down perfectly 
clear, and rose so the next morning ; and havmg little 
or no \Mnd, and a smooth sea, the sun shining upon 
it, the sight was, as I thought, the most delightful 
that •ever I saw. , , 

I had slept well in the night, and was* now no more 
sea-sick, but very cheerful — looking with wonder 
upon the sea that was so rough and terrible the day 
before, and could be so calm and so pleasant in so 
little a time after : ’and now, lest my good resolutions 
should continue, my companion, who had indeed 
enticed me away, comes to me. “ Well, Bob,” says 
he, clapping me upon the shoulder, ” How do you do 
after it ? I warrant you were frightened, weren't you, 
last night, when it blew but a capful of wind ? ” ” A 



22 ROBINSOlf CRUSOE 

capful d'ye call it ? ” said I, “ 'twas a terrible storm." 
" A storm, you fool you !•" replies he, " do you call that 
a storm ? why it was nothing at all > give us but a 
good ship and sea-room, and we think nothing of such 
a squall of wind as that ; but you're but a fresh-water 
sailor, Bob ; come, let us make a bowl of punch, 
and we'll forget all that : d'ye see what charming 
weather 'tis now ? " To make short this sad part 
of my story, we went the way of all sailors ; the punch 
was made, and I was made half drunk with it, and in 
that one night’s wickedness I drowned all my repent- 
ance, all my •reflections upon my past conduct, all 
tny resolutions for the future. In a word, as the sea 
was returned to its smoothness of surface, and settled 
calmness, by the abatement of that storm, so, the 
hurry of my thoughts being over, my fears and* appre- 
hensions of being swallowed up by. the sea being 
forgotten, and the current of my former desires 
returned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises 
that I made in my distress. I found, indeed, some 
intervals*of reflection ; and the serious thoughts did, 
as it were, endeavour to return again sometimes ; 
but I shook them off, and roused myself from them, 
as it were from a distemper ; and, applying myself to 
drinking and company, soon mastered the return of 
those fits (for so I called them) ; and I had, in five or 
six days, got a complete victory over my conscience, 
as any young fellow that resolved not to be troubled 
with it could idesire. But I was to have another trial 
for it still ; and Providence, as in such cas& generally 
it does, resolved to leave me entirely without excuse ; 
for if I would not take this for a deliverance, the next 
was to be such an one, as the worsf and most hardened 
wretch among us would confess both the danger and 
the mercy. 

The sixth day of our being at sea, we came into 
Yarmouth Roads ; the wind having been contrary 
and the weather calm, we had made but little way 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


23. 


since the storm. Here we were obliged to come to 
an anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing 
contrary, namely, at south-west, h)r seven or eight 
days ; during which time a great many ships from 
Newcastle came in ttj the same roads, as the common 
harbour where the ships might wait for a wind for 
the river. 

We had not, however, rid here so long but we should 
have tided it up th^i rfver, but that the ‘wind blew too 
fresh ; and after we had lain four or five days, blew 
very hard. However, the roads being reckoned as 
good as a harbour, the anchorage good, igul our ground' 
tackle very strong, our men wer(‘. unccjncvaned, and- 
not in the least appjpehensivc of danger, but spent the 
time in rest and mirth, after the manner of the sea ; 
but the eighth day, in the mornifig, the wind increased, 
and we had all hands at work to strike our top-nuists, 
and make everything snug and close, that the ship 
might ride Jis easy as possible. By noon, the sea 
went very higli indeed, and our ship rid forecastle in, 
shipped several seas, and we thought oncci^or twice 
our anchor had come home ; upon which our master 
ordered out the sheet-anchor ; .so that we rode with 
two anchors ahead, and the cables veered out to the 
better end. 

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed ; and 
now I began to see terror and amazement in the faces 
evenp of the seamen themselves. The inastpr, though 
vigilant in the business of preserving the ship, yet, 
as he wentdii and out of the cabin by me, I could hear 
him, softly to himself, say several times, “ Lord, be 
merciful to us ! we shall be all lost — we shall be all 
undone ! and the* like. During these first hurries, 
I was stupid, lying still in my cabin, which was in the 
steerage, and cannot describe my temper. I could ill 
resume the first penitence which I had so apparently 
trampled upon, and hardened myself against : I 
thought the bitterness of death had been past ; and 



. 24 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

that this would be nothing, too, like the first. But 
when the master himself came by me, as I said 
just now, and said we should all be lo^t, I was dread- 
fully frighted : I got up out of my cabin, and looked 
out; but such a dismal sight I ‘never sslw ^: the ‘sea 
went mountains high, and broke upon us every three 
or four minutes ; when I could look about, I could 
see nothing but distress roun(J us. Two ships that 
rid near us, we found, had cut iheir masts by the 
board, being deep laden ; and our men cried out that 
a ship, which rid about a mile ahead of us, was foun- 
dered. Two •more ships, being driven from their 
'anchors, wijre run out of the roads to sea, at all adven- 
tures, and that with not a mast* standing. The light 
ships fared the best, as not so much labouring in the 
sea ; but two or three of them drove, and canje close 
by us, running away with only their sprit sail out 
before the wind. 

Towards the evening, the male and boatswain 
begged the master of our ship to let them cut away the 
foremast^ which he was very* unwilling to do ; but 
the boatswain protesting to him, that if he did not 
the ship would founder, he consented ; and when 
they had cut away the foremast, the mainmast 
stood so loose, and shook the ship so much, they 
were obliged to cut it away also, and make* a clear 
deck. 

Any on© must judge what a condition I must “be in 
at all this, wlio was but a young sailor, and who had 
been in such a fright before at but a littl5. But if I 
can express at this distance the thoughts I had about 
me at that time, I was in tenfold more horror of mind 
upon account of my former convictions, and the having 
returned from them to the resolutions I had wickedly 
taken at first, than I was at death itself ; and these, 
added to the terror of the storm, put me into such a 
condition, that I can by no words describe it. But 
the worst was not come yet ; the storm continued 



ROBINSOpr CRUSOE 25 

with such fury that the seamen themselves acknow- 
ledged they had never seen a. worse. We had a good 
ship, but she deep-laden, and wallowed in the sea, 
that the seamen every now and then cried out she 
wodld fouijder. It was my advantage, in one respect, 
tliat I did not know what they meant by founder, 
till I inquired. However, the storm was so violent, 
that I saw, what is npt often seen, the master, the 
boatswain and some others more sensible than the 
rest, at their prayers, and expecting every moment 
when the ship would go to the bottom. In the middle 
of the night, and under all the rest of our distresses, 
one of the men that had been down on purpose to* 
sec, cried out we had Sprung a leak ; another said there 
was four feet water in the hold. ^ Then all hands were 
called Jo the pump. At that very word, my heart, as 
I thought, died within me ; and 1 fell backwards 
upon the side of my bed where I sat, into the cabin. 
However the men roused me, find told me, that I, 
that was able to do nothing before, was as well able 
to pump as another ; ^t which I stirred up, and went 
to the pump and worked very heartily. While this 
was doing, the master, seeing some light colliers who, 
not able to ride out the storm, were obliged to slip 
qnd run away to the sea, and would come near us, 
ordered *to fire a gun as a signal of distTe.5s. 1, who knew 
nothing what that meant, was so surprised, that I 
thought the ship had broke, or some dreadful thing 
happened. In a word, I was so surprised that I fell 
down in a ^^voon. As this was a time when everybody 
had his own life to think of, nobody minded me, or 
what was become of me ; but another man stepped 
up to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his foot, 
let me lie, thinking 1 had been dead ; and it was a 
great while before 1 came to myself. 

We worked on, but the water increasing in the hold, 
it was apparent that the ship would founder ; and 
though the storm began to abate a little, yet as it was 



• 26 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

not possible she could swini till we might run into a 
port, so the master continued firing guns for help ; 
and a light ship, who had rid it out just ahead of us, 
ventured a boat out to help xis. It was with the utmost 
hazard the boat came near us ; fcut it was, impossible 
for us to get on board, or for the boat to lie near the 
ship’s side, till at last the men rowing very heartily, 
and venturing their lives to save ours, our men cast 
them a rope over the stern with a buoy to it, and then 
veered it out a great length, which they, after much 
labour and hazard, took hold of, and w^e hauled tlicm 
close under ottr stern, and got all into their boat. It 
'"was to no*' purpose for them or us, after we were in 
the boat, to think of reaching td their own ship ; so 
we all agreed to let licr drive, and only to pull her in 
towards shore as much as we could ; and our .master 
promised them, that if the boat was st,aved upon shore, 
he would make it good to their master ; so, partly 
rowing, and partly driving, our boat went away to the 
northward, sloping towards the shore, almost as far 
as Wintfcrton Ness. 

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour 
out of our ship, but we saw her sink ; and then I 
understood, for the first time, what was meant by a 
ship foundering in the sea. I must acknowledge ,1 
had hardly eyes to look up, when the seamen* told me 
she was sinking ; for from that moment they rather 
put me into the boat, than that I might be said to 
go in, my heart was, as it were, dead within me, partly 
with fright, partly with horror of mincl, and the 
thoughts of what was yet before me. 

While we were in this condition^ the men yxt labour- 
ing at the oar to bring the boat hearer the shore, we 
could see (when our boat mounting the waves, we were 
able to sec the shore) a great many people running 
along the shore to assist us, when w^e should come near ; 
but we made but slow way toward the shore, nor 
w^erc we able to reach the shore, till being past the 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 27 

lighthouse at Winter ton, the shore falls off to the 
westward towards Cromer, and so the land broke off 
a little the violence of the wind. Here we got in, and 
though not without •much difficulty, got all safe on 
shore, and* walked afterwards on foot to Yarmouth, 
where, as unfortunate men, we were used with great 
humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town, 
who assigned us good quarters, as by jxirticular mer- 
chants and owners of ships, and had money given us 
sufficient to carry us either to London, or back to Hull, 
as we thought lit. ^ 

Had I now had the sense to have gone ba^k to Hull,- 
and have gone home, I had been happy, and my 
father, an emblem of our blessed Saviour's parable, 
had even killed the fatted calf -for me ; for, hearing 
the ship I went in was cast away in Yarmouth Roads, 
it was a great while before he had any assurance that 
1 was not drowned. 

But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy 
that nothing could resist ; and though 1 had several 
times loud calls from my reason and my more com- 
posed judgment to go home, yet I had no power to 
do it. I know not what to call this, nor will I urge 
that it is a secret, overruling decree, that hurries us 
on to be the instruments of our own destruction, even 
though it be before us, and that we push upon it with 
our eyes open. Certainly, nothing but spme such 
decreed unavoidable misery attending,, and which 
it was impossible for me to escape, could have pushed 
me forward against the calm reasonings and persua- 
sions of my most retired thoughts, and against two 
such visible instructions as I had met with in my first 
attempt. 

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, 
and who was the master's son, was now less forward 
than I. The first time he spoke to me after we were 
at Yarmouth, which was not till two or three days, 
for we were separated in the town to several quarters 



28 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


— I say, the first time he saw me, it ap]:)eare(l his tone 
was altered ; and looking very inelanclioly, and 
shaking his head, asked me how 1 did ; and telling 
his father who T was, and how I had come this vo5"age 
only for a trial, in order to go farther kbroad, his 
father, turning to me with a very grave and concerned 
tone, “ Young man,*' says he, " you ought never to 
go to sea any more ; 5^ou oilght to take this for a 
plain and visible token, that 3^011 are not to be a sea- 
faring man." " Why, sir," said I, " will you go to 
sea no more ?,." " That is another case," said he, " it 
is my calli/ig, and t herefore my duty ; but as you made 
this voyage for a trial, you see .what a taste Heaven 
has given you of what you are to expect, if you persist : 
perhaps all this has 'befallen us on 3^0111 account, like 
Jonah in the ship of Tarshish. Pray," continues he, 
" what are you ? and on what account did you go 
to sea ? ** Upon that I told him some of my story ; 
at the end of which he buret out with a strange kincl 
of passupn : " Wliat had I done," says he, " that such 
an unhappy wretch should come into my ship ? I 
would not set my foot in the same ship with thee again 
for a thousand pounds." This indeed was, as I said, 
an excursion of the spirits, which were yet agitated 
by the sense of his loss, and was farther than* he could 
have authority to go. However, he afterwards talked 
very gra^5ely to m^ exhorted me to go back to my ‘father 
and not tempt Providence to my ruin ; told me, I 
might see a visible hand of Heaven againstsme : "And, 
young man," said he, " depend upon it, if you do 
not go back, wherever you go, 3^ou will meet with 
nothing but disasters and disappointments, till your 
father's words are fulfilled upon you." 

We parted soon after ; for I made him little answer, 
and 1 saw him no more : which W'ay he went I know 
not. As for me, having some money in my pocket, I 
travelled to London by land ; and there, as well as 
on the road, had many struggles with myself, what 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


29 

course of life I should take, and whether I should go 
home or go to sea. 

As to going tome, shame opposed the best motions 
that offered to my*, thoughts ; and it immediately 
occurred to me how I sliould be laughed at among the 
neighbours, and should be ashamed to see, not my 
father and mother only, but even everybody else ; 
from whence I have since often observed, how incon- 
gruous and irrational the common temper of mankind 
is, especially of youth, to that reason which ought to 
guide them in such cases, namely, that they are not 
ashamed to sin, and yet arc ashamed to repent ; nor. 
ashamed of the actipn for wdiich they ought justly 
to be esteemed fools, but are ashamed of the returning 
which only can make them be osteemed wise men. 

In this state of life, however, I remained some 
time, uncertain what measures to take, and what 
course of life to lead. An irresistible reluctance con- 
tinued to going home ; and as 1 stayed a while, the 
remembrance of the dij^tress I had been in \jpre off ; 
and, as that abated, the little motion I had in my 
desires to a return wore off with it, till at last I 
quite laid aside the thoughts of it, and looked out for 
a voyage. 

‘ That evil influence which carried me first away from 
my father's house, that hurried me into the wild and 
indigested notion of raising my fortune, and that 
impressed those conceits so forcibly upqn me, as to 
make me d^af to all good advice, and to the entreaties 
and even the command of my father — I say, the same 
influence, whatever it was, presented the most unfor- 
tunate of all enterprises to my view ; and I went on 
board a vessel bound to the coast of Africa ; or, as 
our sailors vulgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea. 

It was my great misfortune, that in all these adven- 
tures I did not ship myself as a sailor ; whereby, 
though I might indeed have worked a litlle harder 
than ordinary, yet, at the same time, 1 had learned 



30 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

the duty and office of a fore-mast man, and in time 
might have qualified myself for a mate or lieutenant, 
if not for a master. But as it was alA^ays my fate to 
choose for the worst, so I did here ; for, having money 
in my pocket, and good clothes upon nty back, I 
would always go on board in the habit of a gentleman ; 
and so I neither had any business in the ship, nor 
learned to do' any. * 


CHAPTER II 

Make a successful voyage to Guinea — Taken by Sallee 
Rover — Esc?fpc with a ^loresco boy. 

• 

It was my lot, first of all, to fall into pr^etty good com- 
pany in London, which does not always happen to 
such loose and unguided young fellows as I then was, 
the dcv^l generally not omitting to lay some snare 
for them very early ; but it was not so with me. I 
first fell acquainted with th(! master of a .ship who had 
been on the coast of (iuinea ; and who, having had 
very good success there, was resolved to go again ; 
and who, taking a fancy to my conversatioE, whidi 
was not at all disagreeable at that time, hearing me 
say I hjid^a mind to see tlie world, told me, if I would 
go the voyage with him I should be at no expense — 
1 should be his mess-mate and his companion ; and 
if I could carry anything with me, I should have all 
the advantage of it that the trade would permit ; and, 
perhaps, I might meet with some encouragement. 

I embraced the offer ; and, entering into a strict 
friendship with this captain, who was an honest and 
plain-dealing man, I went the voyage with him. and 
carried a small adventure with me, which, by the dis- 
interested honesty of my friend, the captain, I increased 
very considerably : for I carried about forty pounds 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


3 ^ 

in such toys and trifles as the captain directed me to 
buy. This forty pounds I had mustered together by 
the assistance of some of my relations, whom I corre- 
sponded with, and who, I believe, got my father, or 
at least my mother, *to contribute so mucli as that to 
my first adventure. 

This was the only voyage which I may say was 
successful in all my adventures, and which I owe to 
the integrity and h9nesty of my friend, the captain ; 
under whom also I got a competent knowledge of the 
mathematics, and the rules of navigation — learned 
how to keep an account of the ship's CQurse, take an 
observation, and, in short, to understand scmic tilings - 
that were needful to .be understood by a sailor ; for, 
as he took delight to instruct me, I took delight to 
learn ; and, in a word, this voyage made me both a 
Sciilor aftd a merchant ; for I brought home live pounds 
nine ounces of gold dust for my adventure, which 
yielded me in I.ondon, at my return, almost three 
hundred pounds ; and this lilted me with those 
aspiring thoughts which- have since so competed my 
ruin. 

Yet, even in this voyage, I had my misfortunes too, 
particularly that I was continually sick, being thrown 
into a violent calenture by the excessive heat of the 
chmate-^our principal trading b(ang upon the coast, 
from the latitude of fifteen (U^grwjs nortli, even to the 
Line kself. ^ . 

I was now set up for a Guinea trader ; and iny 
friend, to my great misfortune, dying soon after his 
arrival, I resolved to go the same voyage again ; and 
I embarked in the same vessel with one who was his 
mate in the former voyage, and had now got the com- 
mand of the ship. This was the unhappiest voyage 
that ever man made ; for tliough 1 did not carry 
quite £100 of my new gained wealth, so that 1 had 
£200 left, and which I lodged with my friend's widow, 
who was very just to me, yet I fell into terrible 



32 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

misfortunes in this voyage ; and the first was this— 
namely, our ship, making her couise towards the 
Canary Islands, or rather between t^iose islands and 
the African shore, was surprised, in the gray of the 
morning, by a Moorish rover of Sallee, whoi gave cliase 
to us with all the sail she could make. We crowded 
also as much canvas as our yards would spread, or 
our masts carry, to have got ^ clear ; but finding the 
pirate gained upon us, and would certainly come up 
with us in a few hours, we prepared to figlit, our ship 
having twelve guns, and the rover eighteen. About 
three in the afternoon he came up with us, and bring- 
ing to, by mistake, just athwart our quarter, instead 
of athwart our stern, as he intended, we brought eight 
of our guns to bear on that side, and poured in a broad- 
side upon him, which made him sheer off agc\in after 
retuniuig our fire, and pouring in also his small shot 
from near two hundred men which he had on board. 
However, we had not a man touched, all our men 
keeping close. He prepared to attack us again, and 
we to (defend ourselves ; but* laying us on board the 
next time upon our other quarter, he entered sixty 
men upon our decks, who immediately fell to cutting 
and hacking the decks and rigging. We plied them 
with small shot, half-pikes, powder-chests, and sufh 
like, and cleared our deck of them twice. However, 
to cut short this melancholy part of our story, our 
ship being disabled, and three of our men killed, and 
eight wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were 
carried all prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging to 
the Moors. 

The usage I had there w^as not so dreadful as at 
first I apprehended ; nor was I c*arried up the country 
to the emperor's court, as the rest of our men were, 
but was kept by the captain of the rover, as his proper 
prize, and made his slave, being young and nimble, 
and fit for his business. At this surprising change of 
my circumstances, from a merchant to a miserable 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 33 

slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed ; and now I looked 
back upon my father's prophetic discourse to me, that 
I should be miserable, and have none to relieve me ; 
which I thought was now so effectually brought to 
passf that I could ncJt be worse — that now the hand 
of Heaven Had overtaken me, and I was undone with- 
out redemption. But, alas ! this was but a taste of 
the misery I was to go through, as will appear in the 
sequel of the story. , 

As my new patron or master had taken me home to 
his house, so I was in hopes that he would take me 
with him when he went to sea again, believing that it 
would be some time or other his fate to be taken by a - 
Spanish or Portugal • man-of-war, and that then I 
should be set at liberty. But this liope of mine was 
soon taken away ; for when he Vent to sea, he left 
me on shore to look after his little garden and do the 
common drudgery of slaves about his house ; and when 
he came home again from his cruise, he ordered me to 
lie in the cabin to look after the ship. 

Here I meditated nothing but my escape, a^ad what 
method I might take to a&ct it ; but found no way 
that had the least probability in it. Nothing presented 
to make the supposition of it rational ; for I hacL 
nobody to communicate it to that would embark 
with me~no fellow-slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or 
Scotsman there, but myself; so that for two years, 
though I often pleased mysdf witl\ the imJigination, 
yet I never had the least encouraging -prospect of 
putting it iif practice. 

After about two years, an odd circumstance pre- 
sented itself which put the whole thought of making 
some attempt for my liberty again in my head : my 
patron lying at home longer than usual, without fitting 
out his ship, which, as I heard, was for want of money, 
he used constantly, once or twice a week, sometimes 
oftener, if the weather was fair, to take the ship’s 
pinnace, and go out into the road a fishing ; and as he 



34 ROBINSQN CRUSOE 

always took me and a young Moresco with him to row 
the boat, we made him very merry, and I proved 
very dexterous in catching fish ; insqpiuch that some- 
times he would send me with a Moor, one of his kins- 
men, and the youth, the Moresco, as they. called*him, 
to catch a dish of fish for him. 

It happened one time that going a-fishing with him 
in a cairn morning, a fog rose ^o thick, that though we 
were not half a league from the* shore, we lost sight 
of it ; and rowing, we knew not whither, or which way, 
we laboured all day and all the next night ; and when 
the morning r came, we found we had pulled off to sea, 
instead of pulling in for the shore, and that we were 
at least two leagues from the land : however, we got 
well in again, though with a great deal of labour, and 
some danger, for the wind began to blow pretty fresh 
in the morning : but, particularly, we were all very 
hungry. 

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved 
to take more care of himself in the future ; and having 
lying by him the long-boat df our English ship which 
he had taken, he resolved he would not go a-fishing 
any more without a compass and some provision ; 
-so he ordered the carpenter of his ship, who also was 
an English slave, to build a little state-room or caljin 
in the middle of the long-boat, like that of a barge, 
with a place to stand behind it to steer, and haul home 
the mainsheet ; and room before for a hand or two to 
stand and work the sails. She sailed with what we 
call a shoulder-of-inutton sail ; and the Doom jibbed 
over the top of the cabin, which lay very snug and 
low, and had in it room for him to lie, with a slave 
or two, and a table to eat on, with some small 
lockers to put in some bottles of such liquor as he 
thought fit to drink, particularly his bread, rice, and 
coffee. 

We were frequently out with this boat a-tishing ; 
and as 1 was most dexterous to catch fish for him, he 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 67 

together at both ends as well as I could, in the form 
of a raft, and laying two or thix?e short pieces of plank 
upon them crossways, I foimd I could walk upon it 
very well, but that it was not able to bear any great 
weight, the pieces being too light ; so I went to work, 
and, with the carpenter's saw, I cut a spare topmast 
into tliree lengths, and added them to my raft, with 
a great deal of labour and pains ; but hope of furnish- 
ing myself with necessaries, encouraged me to go 
beyond what I should have been able to have done 
upon another occasion. 

My raft was now strong enough to beai«any reason- 
able weight ; my next care was what to load it with, 
and how to preserve what I laid on it from the surl 
of the sea ; but I was not long considering this. ' I 
first laid all the planks or boards upon it that I could 
get, and* having considered well what I most wanted, 
I first got three of the seamen's chests, which I had 
broken open and emptied, and lowered tliem down 
upon my raft. The first of these I filled with provisions, 
namely, bread, rice, threfe Dutch cheeses, five •pieces 
of dried goats' flesh, which we lived much upon, and 
a little remainder of European corn, which had been 
laid by for some fowls which we brought to sea with 
us, but the fowls were killed. There had been some 
^ bailey and wheat together, but, to my great disappoint- 
* ment, I found afterwards that the rats had eaten or 
spoiled ‘it all. As for liquors, I found several eases of 
bottles belonging to our skipper, in which 'were some 
cordial waters*, and, in all, above five or six gallons of 
rack : these I stowed by themselves, there being no 
need to put them into the chest, nor no room for them. 
While I was doing this,* I found the tide began to flow, 
though very calm, and I had the mortification to see 
my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on shore 
upon the sand, swim away ; as for my breeches, which 
were only linen, and open-kneed, I swam on board 
in them and my stockings : however, this put me 
R.c. c 



68 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

upon rummaging for clothes, of which I found enough, 
but took no more than- 1 wanted for present use, for 
I had other things which my eye wa^more upon : as, 
first, tools to work with on shcye ; and it was after 
long searching that I found out the carpenter's chest, 
which was indeed a very useful prize to me, and much 
more valuable than a shipload of gold would have 
been at that time. I got it, down to my raft, even 
whole as it was, without losing time to look into it, 
for I knew in general what it contained. 

My next care was for some ammunition and arms. 
There were two very good fowling-pieces in the great 
cabin, and two pistols : these I sexured first, with some 
powder-horns, and a small bag^of shot, and two old 
rusty sw^ords. I kjiew there were three barrels of 
powder in the ship, but knew not where ouf. gunner 
had stowed them ; but with much search I found them, 
two of them dry and good, the third had taken water ; 
those two I got to my raft, with the arms. And now 
I thought myself pretty well freighted, and began to 
think now I should get to ^ore with them, having 
neither sail, oar, nor rudder, and the least capful of 
wind would have overset all my navigation. 

I had three encouragements : i, A smooth, calm 
sea ; 2, 'fhe tide rising, and setting in to the shoye ; 
3, A^at little wind there was blew me toward the land; 
and thus, having found two or three broken oars 
belonging to the boat, and, besides the tools' which 
were in the chest, I found two saws, an axe, and a 
hammer ; and with this cargo I put to sea. For a mile, 
or thereabouts, my raft went very well, only that 
I found it drive a little distant from the place where 
I had landed before ; by which I perceived that there 
was some indraft of the water, and, consequently, I 
hoped to find some creek or river there which I 
might make use of as a port to get to land with my 
cargo. 

As I imagined, so it was ; there appeared before me 



ROBINSOK CRUSOE 69 

a little opening of the land, and I found a strong cur- 
rent of the tide set into it, so I guided my raft as well 
as I could to ke*ip in the middle of the stream ; but 
here I had like to ha^ve suffered a second shipwreck, 
which, if I had, I think verily would have broke my 
heart ; for, knowing nothing of the coast, my raft 
ran aground at one end of it upon a shoal, and, not 
being aground at the other end, it wanted but a little 
that all my cargo had slipped off towards that end 
that was afloat, and so fallen into the water. I did 
my utmost, by setting my back against the chests, 
to keep tlicm in their places, but could i^t thrust off 
the raft with all my strength ; neither durst I stir 
from the posture I wa& in, but, holding up the cheste 
with all my might, stood in that manner near half an 
hour, in, which time the rising of the water brought 
me a little more upon a level ; and, a little after, the 
water still rising, my raft floated again, and I thrust 
her off with the oar I had into the cliannel ; and then, 
driving up higher, I at length found myself in the 
mouth of a little river, with land on both sides,* and a 
strong current, or tide, running up. I looked on both 
sides for a proper place to get to shore ; for I was not 
willing to be driven too high up the river, hoping in^ 
time to s^e some ship at sea, and therefore resolved 
to place myself as near the coast as I could. 

At length I spied a little cove on the right shore 
of the creek, to which, with great pjan and difficulty, 

I guided my raft, and at last got so near as that, reach- 
ing ground with my oar, I could thrust her directly 
in ; but here I had like to have dipped all my cargo 
in the sea again ; for, that shore lying pretty steep, 
that is to say, sloping, there was no place to land, but 
where one end of the float, if it ran on shore, would 
lie so high, and the other sink lower as before, that it 
would endanger my cargo again : all that I could do, 
was to wait till the tide was at the highest, keeping 
the raft with my oar like an anchor to hold the side 



70 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

of it fast to the shore, near a flat piece of ground, which 
I expected the water \^ould flow over ; and so it did. 
As soon as I found water enough— ^for my raft drew 
about a foot of water — I thrustf her on upon that flat 
piece of ground, and there fastened, or. moored her, 
by sticking my two broken oars into the ground — one 
on one side, near one end, and one on the other side, 
near the otl^r end ; and thus* I lay till the water ebbed 
away, and left my raft and all nty cargo safe on shore. 

My next w^ork was to view the country, and to seek 
a proper place for my habitation, and where to stow 
my good:-», tb secure them from whatev’^er might happen. 
Where I was, I 3^et knew not whether on the conti- 
nent or on an island — whether inhabited or not in- 
habited — whether »in danger of wild beasts or not. 
ITiere was a hill, not above a mile from roe, which 
rose up very steep and high, and which seemed to 
overtop some other hills which lay as in a ridge from 
it northward. I took out one of the fowling-pieces, 
and Qjie of the pistols, an^ a horn of powder ; and 
thus armed, I travelled for discovery up to the top of 
that hill, where, after I had with great labour and 
difficulty got to the top, I saw my fate, to my great 
affliction, namely, that I was in an island, environed 
every way with the sea — ^no land to be seen, except 
some rocks which lay a great way off, and two small 
islands less than this, which lay about three leagues to 
the west. . ' 

I found also, that the island I w^as in was barren, 
and, as I saw good reason to believe, uninhabited, 
except by wild beasts, of which, however, I saw none ; 
yet I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not their kinds, 
neither, w’hen I killed them, could I tell what w^as 
fit for food, and what not. At my coming back, I 
shot at a great bird, which I saw^ sitting upon a tree 
on the side of a great wood : I believe it was the first 
gun that had been fired there since the creation of 
the world. I had no sooner fired, but, from all parts 



ROBraSON CRUSOE 71 

of the wood, there arose an iiiniinierable number of 
fowls of many sorts, making a confused screaming 
and crying, every one according to his usual note ; 
but /lot one of them bf any kind that I knew. As for 
the creature that I killed, I took it to be a kind of 
hawk, its colour and beak resembling it, but had no 
talons or claws, more than common ; its liesh was 
carrion, and fit for nothing. 

Contented with tliis discovery, I came back to my 
raft, and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore, which 
took me up the rest of that day : and what to do with 
myself at night I knew not, nor indeed wliei^ to rest ; 
for I was afraid to lie (Jown on the ground, not knowing 
but some wild beast might devour me ; though, as I 
afterwards found, there was really no need for those 
fears. • 

However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself 
round with the chests and boards that I had brought 
on shore, and made a kind of a hut for that night's 
lodging. As for food, I yet saw not which way to#upply 
myself, except that I had seen two or three creatures 
like hares run out of the wood where I shot the fowl. 

I now began to consider that I might yet get a greaU 
many things out of the ship, whicli would be useful 
to .me, an#i particularly some of the rigging and sails, 
and such other things as might come to land, and I 
resolv(;d to make another voyage on board th^^ vessel, 
if possible ; and as I knew that the* first .storm that 
blew must ne^^essarily break her all in pieces, I resolved 
to set all other things apart, till I got everything out 
of the ship that I could get. Then I called a council 
(that is to say in my thoughts), whether I should take 
back the raft ; but this appeared impracticable ; so 
I resolved to go as before, when the tide was down, 
and I did so, only that I stripped before I went from 
my hut, having nothing on but a checked shirt and a 
pair of linen trousers, and a pair of pumps on my 
feet. 



72 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


I got aboard the ship as before, and prepared a 
second raft ; and having had experience of the first, 
I neither made this so unwieldy, nor leaded it so hard, 
but yet I brought away several things very usefi^l to 
me ; as first, in the carpenter's stores, 1 found two or 
three bags full of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack, 
a dozen or two of hatchets, and, above all, that most 
useful thing Called a grindstoile : all these I secured, 
together with several things belonging to the gunner, 
particularly two or three iioii crows, and two barrels 
of musket-bi^llets, seven muskets, and another fowling- 
piece, witfi some small quantity of powder more ; a 
large bag full of small shot, and a great roll of sheet 
lead ; but this last was so heavy I could not hoist it 
up to get it over the*ship*s side. 

Besides these things, I took all the men's* clothes 
that I could find, and a spare fore- top-sail, hammock, 
and some bedding ; and with this I loaded my second 
raft, and brought them all safe on shore, to my very 
great oomfort. • 

I was under some apprehensions during my absence 
from the land, that at least my provisions might be 
devoured on shore ; but, when I came back, I found 
no sign of any visitor, only there sat a creature, like 
a wild cat, upon one of the chests, which, when I came 
towards it, ran away a little distance, and then stood 
still : she sat v^ry composed and unconcerned, and 
looked full in my face, as if she had a mind to be ac- 
quainted with me. I presented my gun at her, but as 
she did not understand it, she was perfectly uncon- 
cerned at it, nor did she offer to stir away ; upon which 
I tossed her a bit of biscuit, though by the way, I was 
not very free of it, for my store was not great : however, 
I spared her a bit, I say, and she went to it, smelled 
of it, and ate it, and looked, as pleased, for more ; 
but I thanked her, and could spare no more — so she 
marched off. 

Having got my second cargo on shore, though 1 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 73 

was fain to open the barrels of -powder, and bring them 
by parcels — for. they were too heavy, being large 
casks — I went to worjlc to make me a little tent, with 
the Sail an^ some poles which I cut for that purpose ; 
and into this tent I brought everything tliat I knew 
would spoil cither with rain or sun ; and piled all the 
empty chests and casks. up in a circle roi]nd the tent, 
to fortify it from adiy sudden attempt, cither from 
man or beast. 

When I had done this. T blocked up the door of the 
tent with some boards within, and an empty chest 
set up on end without, and, spreading one ortho beds 
upon the ground, laytng my tw^o pistols just at my 
head, and my gun at length mp, I went to bed for 
the first, time, and slept very quietly all night, for I 
was very weary and heavy ; as the night before I had 
slept little, and had laboured very hard all day, as 
well to fetch all those things from the ship as to get 
them on shore. 

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds no'!t that 
ever was laid up, I believe, for one man, but I was not 
satisfied still : for, while the ship sat upright in that 
posture, I thought I ought to get everything out of* 
her that I could : so every day, at low water, I went 
on 'board hnd brought away something or other, but 
particularly the third time I went, I brought away as 
much 6f the rigging as I could, as erfso all tl!e small 
ropes and rope-twine I could get, with a j)i&e of spare 
canvas, which was to mend the sails upon occasion, 
and the barrel of wet gunpowder ; in a word, I brought 
away all the sails firsthand last, only that 1 was fain 
to cut them in pieces, and bring as much at a time as 
I could ; for they were no more useful to be sails, 
but as mere canvas only. 

But that which comforted me more still, was, that 
last of all, after I had made five or six such voyages 
as these, and thought I had nothing more to expect 
from the ship that was worth my meddling with— I 



74 ROBINSOlSr CRUSOE 

say, after all this, I foijnd a great hogshead of bread, 
and three large runlets of rum or spirits, and a box 
of sugar, and a barrel of fine flour ; tnis was surprising 
to me, because I had given ovA expecting any more 
provisions, except what was spoiled by the water. I 
soon emptied the hogshead of that bread, and wrapped 
it up, parcel by parcel, in pieces of the sails, which I 
cut out ; arfd, in a word, I got ^11 this safe on shore 
also. 

The next day I made another voyage ; and now, 
having pluiviered the ship of what was portable and 
fit to haad out, I began with the cables ; and cutting 
the great cable into pieces, suth as I could move, I 
got two cables and a howser on shore, with all the 
iron-work I could g^t ; and having cut down the sprit- 
sail-yard, and the mizzen-yard, and everything I 
could, to make a large raft, I loaded'it with all those 
heavy goods, and came away : but my good luck 
began now to leave me ; for this raft was so unwieldy 
and overladen, that, after I had entered the little cove, 
where I had landed the rest of my goods, not being 
able to guide it handily so as I did the others, it over- 
set, and threw me and all my cargo into the water. 
As for myself, it was no great harm, for I was near the 
shore; but as to my cargo, it was, great part of it, 
lost, especially the iron, which I expected would have 
been of. great us^ to me ; however, when the tide was 
out, I got most of the pieces of cable ashore, and some 
of the iron, though with infinite labour ; Tor I was fain 
to dip for it into the water, a work which fatigued me 
very much. After this I went every day on board, 
and brought away what I could get. 

I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had 
been eleven times on board the ship ; in which time 
I had brought away all that one pair of hands could 
well be supposed capable to bring, though I believe 
verily, had the calm held, I should have brought away 
the whole ship, piece by piece ; but, preparing the 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 75 

twelfth time to go on board, I found the wind began to 
rise ; however, at low water, ' I went on board, and 
though I had rummaged the cabin so effectually as 
that nothing more could be found, yet I discovered a 
locker with <lrawers in it, in one of which I found two 
or three razors, and one pair of large scissors, with 
some ten or a dozen of good knives and forks ; in 
another I found aboul? thirty-six pounds value in 
money, some European coin, some Brazil, some pieces 
of eight, some gold, some silver. 

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. " O 
drug ! ” said I, sJoud, " what art thou gootl f^r ? thou 
art not worth to me— no, not the taking off of the 
ground ; one of those knives is worth all this heap ; 

1 have no manner of use for thee ;• even remain where 
thou art, and go to the bottom as a creature whose 
life is not worth saving." However, upon second 
thoughts, I took it away, and wrapping all this in a 
piece of canvas, I began to think of making another 
raft ; but, while I was prpparing this, I found tjie sky 
overcast, and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter 
of an hour it blew a fresh gale from the shore. It 
presently occurred to me, that it was in vain to pre-, 
tend to make a raft with the wind off-shore, and that 
it was my .business to be gone before the tide of flood 
began, otherwise I might not be able to reach the shore 
at all accordingly, I let myself down into thp water, 
and swam across the channel which *lay between the 
ship and thq sands, and even that with difficulty 
enough, partly with the Aveight of things I had about 
me, and par tty the roughness of the water, for the 
wind rose very hastilyi and, before it was quite high 
water, it blew a storm. 

But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I 
lay with all my wealth about me very secure. It blew 
very hard all that night, and in the morning when I 
looked out, behold no more ship was to be seen ! I 
was a little surprised, but recovered myself with tliis 



76 ROBINSO^’ CRUSOE 

satisfactory reflection, namely, that 1 had lost no time, 
nor abated no diligence, to get everything out of tier 
that could be useful to me, and th^t, indeed, there 
was little left in her that I was jable to bring away, if 
I had had more time. ^ •’ 

I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, 
or of anything out of her, except what might drive 
on shore fro;n the wreck, as, indeed divers pieces of 
her afterwards did ; but those things were of small 
use to me. 

My thoughts were now wholly employed about 
securing m}»,olf against either savages, if any should 
appear, oV wild beasts, if any were on the island ; and 
1 had many thoughts of the nfethod how to do this, 
and what kind of dY^’clling to make — whether I should 
make me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon tl^e eai th ; 
and, in short, I resolved upon both, the manner and 
description of which it may not be improper to give 
an account of. 

I soon found the place I was in was not for my 
settleiflent, particularly because it was upon a low 
moorish ground near the sea, and I believe would not 
be wholesome, and more particularly because there 
was no fresh water near it ; so I resolved to 
find a more healthy and more convenient spot , of 
ground. 

I consulted several things in my situation which I 
found Arould be* proper for me : First, Health and 
fresh water I just now mentioned ; second, Shelter 
from the heat of the sim ; third, Security from 
ravenous creatures, whether man or beast ; fourth, A 
view to the sea, that, if God ^end any ship in sight, 
I might not lose any advantage for my deliverance, 
of which I was not willing to banish all my expectation 
yet. 

In search of a place proper for this, I found a little 
plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front towards 
this little plain was steep as a house-side, so that 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 77 

nothing could come down upon me from the top : on 
the side of this rock there wa‘s a hollow place worn a 
little way in, like the entrance or door of a cave, but 
there was not really \any cave or way into the rock 
at ^1. 

On the flat of the green, just below this hollow place, 
I resolved to pitch my tent : this plain was not above 
an hundred yards broad, and about twice as long, 
and lay like a grccil before my door, and at the end 
of it descended irregularly every way down into the 
low grounds by the sea-side. It was on the north- 
north-wxst side of the hill, so that I ^as^ sheltered 
from the heat every dgty, till it came to a west-and-by- 
south sun, or thereabouts, which in those coimtrics 
is near the setting. • 

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle before 
the hollow place which took in about ten yards in its 
semi-diameter, from the rock, and twenty yaicis in its 
diameter from its beginning and ending. 

In this half circle I pitcjied two rows of strong^takes, 
driving them into the ground till they stood very firm, 
like piles, the biggest end being out of the ground about 
five feet and a half, and sharpened on the top : th^ 
two rows did not stand above six inches from one 
another. , 

Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in 
the shjp, and laid them in rows, one upon ^another, 
within the circle between these two rows of stakes up 
to the top, placing other stakes in the inside, leaning 
against them, about two feet and a half high, like a 
spur to a post ; and this fence was so strong that 
neither man nor beast could get into it, or over it : 
this cost me a great deal of time and labour, especially 
to cut the piles in the woods, bring them to the place, 
and drive them into the earth. 

The entrance into this place I made to be, not by a 
door, but by a short ladder, to go over the top ; which 
ladder, when 1 was in, 1 lifted over after me : and so 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


78 

I was completely fenced in, and fortified, as I thought, 
from all the world, and consequently slept secure in 
the night, which otherwise I could mot have done ; 
though, as it appeared afterwards, there was no peed 
of all this caution from the enemies that I apprehended 
danger from. 

Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labour, I 
carried all my riches, all my provisions, ammunition, 
and stores, of which you have *the account above ; 
and I made me a large tent, which, to preserve me 
from the rains, that in one part of the year are very 
violent tj.ierc, I made double, namely, one smaller 
tent within, and one larger teni, above it, and covered 
the uppermost with a large tarpaulin, w^hich I had saved 
among the sails. • 

And now I lay no more, for a while, in the bed which 
I had brought on shore, but in a haminock, which was, 
indeed, a very good one, and belonged to the mate 
of the ship. 

Int(^ this tent I brought all my provisions, and 
everything that would spoil by the wet ; and having 
thus enclosed all my goods, I made up the entrance, 
which, till now, I had left open, and so passed and 
repassed, as I said by a short ladder. 

When I had done this, I began to work my way 
into the rock, and, bringing all the earth and stones 
that I jlug down, out through my tent, I laid them 
up within my fence in the nature of a terrace, that 
so it raised the ground within about a fqpt and a half ; 
and thus I made me a cave just behind my tent, 
which served me like a cellar to my house. 

It cost me much labour and many days before all 
these things were brought to perfection : and, there- 
fore, I must go back to some other things which took 
up some of m}^ thoughts. At the same time, it hap- 
pened, after I had laid my scheme for the settings of 
my tent, and making the cave, that a storm of rain 
failing from a thick dark cloud, a sudden flash of 



ROBINSON. CRUSOE 79 

lightning happened, and after that a great clap of 
thunder, as is naturally the effect of it. I was not so 
much surprised with the lightning as I was with a 
thought which darted^ into my mind, as swift as the 
lightning itself : Oh, ‘ my powder ! my very heart 
sank within *me, when I thought that, at one blast, 
all my powder might be destroyed, on which, not my 
defence only, but the proyidiiig me food, as I thought, 
entirely depended ; I was nothing near * so anxious 
about my own danger, though, had the powder took 
fire, I had never known who had hurt me. 

Such impression did this make upon mtv that after 
the storm was over, I laid aside all my w^ks, my 
building and fortifying*, and applied myself to make 
bags and boxes, to separate the powder, and to keep 
it a little and a little in a parcel, in hope that, what- 
ever miglit come, it might not all take lire at once, 
and to keep it so apart, that it should not be possible 
to make one part fire another. I finished this work 
in about a fortnight ; and I think my powder, which, 
in all, was about two hundfed and forty pounds weight, 
was divided in not less than a hundred jiarcels. As to 
the barrel that had been wet, I did not apprehend any 
danger from that, so I placed it in my new cave,' 
which, in my fancy, I called my kitchen ; and the rest 
1 hid up ahd down in holes among the rocks, so that 
*no wet might come to it, marking very can fully where 
I laid if. • • 

In the interval of time, while this was doilig, I went 
out once at le!ist every day witli my gun, as well to 
divert myself as to see if I could kill anything fit for 
food, and, as near as I could, to acquaint myself with 
what the island produced. The first time I went out, 

I presently discovered that there were goats in the 
island, which was a gieat satisfaction to me ; but then, 
it was attended with this misfortune to me, namely, 
that they were so shy, so subtle, and so swift of foot, 
that it was the most difficult thing in the world to 



8o 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


come at them. But 1 was not discouraged at this, 
not doubting but I might now and then shoot one, 
as it soon happened ; for, after I ^had found their 
haunts a little, I laid wait in ^is manner for them. 
I observed, if they saw me in the valleys, Jthough^they 
were upon the rocks, they would run away as in a 
terrible fright ; but if they were feeding in the valleys, 
and I was upon the rocks, they took no notice of me ; 
from whence I concluded, that; by the position of 
their optics, their sight was so directed downwards 
that they did not readily see objects that were above 
them : so :ffterwards I took this method : I always 
climbed the rocks first, to get above them, and then 
had frequently a fair mark. The first shot I made 
among these creatures I killed a she-goat, which had 
a little kid by her which she gave suck tQ, which 
grieved me heartily ; but when the ojd one fell, the 
kid stood stock still by her till I came and took lier 
up ; and not only so, but, when I carried the old one 
with ige upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite 
to my enclosure ; upon which I laid down the dam, 
and took the kid in my arms, and carried it over my 
pale, in hopes to have bred it up tame ; but it would 
not eat, so I was forced to kill it, and eat it myself. 
These two supplied me with flesh a great while, ^for 
I ate sparingly, and saved my provisions \my bread 
especially) as much as possibly I could. 

Having now fixed my habitation, I found ft abso- 
lutely necessary to provide a place to make a fire in, 
and fuel to burn ; and what I did that for, as also 
how I enlarged my cave, and what conveniences I 
made, I shall give a full account of in its place ; but 
I must first give some little account of myself, and 
of my thoughts about living, which, it may well be 
supposed were not a few. 

I had a dismal prospect of my condition ; for, as 
I was not cast away upon that island without being 
driven, as is said, by a violent storm, quite out of the 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 8i 

course of our intended voyage, and a great way, 
namely, some hundreds of leagues, out of the ordinary 
course of the tr^de of mankind, I had great reason 
to consider it as a determination of Heaven, that, in 
this •desolate place, and in this desolate manner, I 
should end my life. The tears would run plentifull}^ 
down my face when I made these reflections ; and 
sometimes I would expostulate with .myself why 
Providence should thus completely ruin his creatures, 
and render them so absolutely miserable, so without 
help abandoned, so entirely depressed, tliat it could 
hardly be rational to be thankful for sucU.a life. 

But something always returned swift upon me to 
check these thoughts,* and to reprove me ; and, par- 
ticularly, one day walking, with ijiy gun in my hand, 
by the xea-sidc, I was very pensive upon the subject 
of my present condition, when reason, as it were, 
expostulated with me the other way, thus : Well, 

you are in a desolate condition, it is true ; but pray, 
remember, where are the rest of you ? Did not you 
come eleven of you into the boat ? Wliere are the ten? 
Why were they not saved and you lost 1 Why were 
you singled out ? Is it better to be here or there ? " 
And then I pointed to the sea. All evils are to b(?" 
considered with the good that is in them, and with 
what w'orse attended them. 

Then it occurred to me again, how well I was fur- 
nisheef for my subsistence, and what "would hdve been 
my case if it had not happened, which was*an hundred 
thousand to one, that the ship floated from the place 
where she first struck, and was driven so near the 
shore that I had time to get all things out of her. 
What would have been my case, if I had been to have 
lived in the condition in which I at first came on shore, 
without necessaries of life, or necessaries to supply 
or procure them ? " Particularly,” said I, aloud, 

though to myself, ” what should I have done without 
a gun, without ammunition, without any tools to 



82 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


make anything, or to work with — without clothes, 
bedding, a tent or any manner of covering ? ** and 
that now I had all these to a sufficient quantity, and 
was in a fair way to provide myself in such a m^inne: 
as to live without my gun when my ammunition was 
spent ; so that I had a tolerable view of subsisting 
without any want, as long as I lived : for I considered, 
from the beginning, how I ‘Should provide for the 
accidents that might happen, afid for the time that 
was to come, even not only after my ammunition 
should be spent, but even after my health and strength 
should dgcc^y. 

I confess I had not entertained any notion of my 
ammunition being destroyed at one blast, I mean, 
my powder being blown up by lightning ; and this 
made the thoughts of it so surprising to me* when it 
lightened and thundered, as I observ-ed just now. 

And now, being about to enter into a melancholy 
relation of a scene of silent life, such, perhaps, as was 
never Jieard of in the world \)efore, I shall take it from 
its beginning, and continue it in its order. It was, 
by my account, the 30th of September, when, in the 
planner as above said, I first set foot upon this horrid 
island, when the sun being, to us, in its autumnal 
equinox, was almost just over my head ; for J reckoned 
myself, by observation, to be in the latitude of nine 
degrees twenty-two minutes north of the Lin^. 

After* I |iad been there about ten or twelve days, 
it came into my thoughts, that I should Iqse my reckon- 
ing of time for want of books, and pen and ink, and 
should even forget the Sabbath days from the w’orking 
days ; but, to prevent this, 1^ cut it with my knife 
upon a large post in capit^ letters, and making it 
into a great cross, I set it up on the shore whe<-e I first 
landed, namely, I came on shore here on the 30th of 
September, 1659. Upon the sides of this square post, 
I cut every day a notch with my knife, and every 
seventh notch was as long again as the rest, and every 



ROBINSON .CRUSOE 83 

first day of the month as long again as that long one ; 
and thus I kept my calendar., or weekly, monthly, 
and yearly reckojiing of time. 

In the next place, we are to observe that, among 
the many things whicli I brought out of the ship in 
the several voyages, which, as above mentioned, I 
made to it, I got several things of less value, but not 
at all less useful to me, .which I omitted setting down 
before ; as, in particular, pens, ink, and paper, several 
parcels in the captain's, mate's, gunner's, and car- 
penter's keeping, three or four compasses, some 
mathematical instruments, dials, perspectwes, charts, 
and books of navigation, all which I huddled* together, 
whether I might want them or no. Also, I found three 
very good Bibles, which came to me in my cargo from 
England, and which I had packed up among my things; 
some Portuguese books also, and among them two or 
three Popish prayer-books, and several other books : 
all which I carefully secured. And I must not forget 
that we had in the ship a dog and two cats of whose 
eminent history I may hrfve occasion to say sortething 
in its place ; for I carried both the cats with me : and 
as for the dog, he jumped out of the ship of himself, 
and swam on shore to me the day after I went ob.. 
shpre with my first cargo, and was a trusty servant 
to me many years : I wanted nothing that he could 
fetch me, nor any company that he could make up to 
me — f only wanted to have him talk, to me ; %hut that 
he could not so. As I observed before, !• found pen, 
ink, and paper, and I husbanded them to the utmost ; 
and I shall show, that while my ink lasted, I kept 
things very exact ; l^ut after that was gone I could 
not, for I could not make any ink by any means that 
I could devise. 

And this put me in mind that I wanted many things, 
notwithstanding all that I had amassed together ; 
and of these, this of ink was one, as also spade, pick- 
axe, and shovel, to dig or remove the earth ; needles 



84 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

pins, and thread. As for linen, I soon learnt to want 
that without much difficulty. 

This want of tools made every work I did go on 
heavily, and it was near a whole year before I had 
entirely finished my little pal^, or surrounded ‘habi- 
tation ; the piles, or stakes, which w^ere* as heavy as 
I could well lift, were a long time in cutting and pre- 
paring in the woods, and more by far in bringing home; 
so that I spent sometimes fwo. days in cutting and 
bringing home one of those posts, and a third day in 
driving it into the ground ; for which purpose I got 
a heavy piece of wood at first, but at last bethought 
myself of one of the iron crows, which, however, 
though I found it, yet it made driving those posts, 
or piles, very laborious and tedious work. 

But what need I have been concerned at the, tedious- 
ness of anything I had to do, seeing I had time enough 
to do it in ? Nor had T any other employment, if that 
had been over, at least that I could foresee, except 
the ranging the island to seek for food, which I did 
more «r less every day. • 

I now began to consider seriously my condition, 
and the circumstances I was reduced to, and I drew 
^J7p the state of my affairs in writing, not so much to 
leave them to any that were to come after me (fojr I 
was like to have but few heirs), as to deliver my 
thoughts from daily poring upon them, and afflicting 
my miivi ; and ,as my reason began now to master 
my despondency, I began to comfort myself as well 
as T could, and to set the good against the evil, that I 
might have something to distinguish my case from 
worse ; and stated it very irnpartially, like debtor 
and creditor, the comforts l' enjoyed against the 
miseries I suffered, thus : — 

EVIL 

I am cast upon a horrible, desolate island, void of 
all hope of recovery. 



ROBINSON 'CRUSOE 85 

I am singled out and separated, as it were, from all 
the world to be miserable. 

I am divided from mankind, a solitaire, one banished 
from human socitity. 

I have no clothes to cover me. 

I am without any defence, or means to resist any 
violence of man or beast. 

I have no soul to speak to, or relieve me. 

• GOOD 

But I am alive, and not drowned, as all my ship's 
company was. 

But I am singled out, too, from all the ^lyp's crew, 
to be spared from death ; and* He that miraculously 
saved me from death, can deliver me from this 
condition. • 

But 1 am not starved and perivShirig on a barren 
place, affording no sustenance. 

But I am in a hot climate, where, if I had clothes, 
I could hardly wear them. 

But I am cast on ar^ island where 1 see no wild 
beasts to hurt me, as I saw on the coast of Africa ; 
and what if I had been shipwrecked there ? 

But God wonderfully sent the ship in near enougji 
to the shore, that I have gotten out so many necessary 
things ai5 will either supply my wants, or enable me 
to supply myself, even as long as I live. 

Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony, 
that there was scarce any condition in the world so 
miserable, but there was something negative or some- 
thing positive to be thankful for in it ; and let this 
stand as a direction Trom the experience of the most 
miserable of all conditions in this world, that we may 
always find in it something to comfort ourselves from, 
and to set in the description of good and evil on the 
credit side of the account. 

Having now brought my mind a little to relish my 



86 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

condition, and given over looking out to sea, to see 
if I could spy a ship — I say, giving over these things, 
I began to apply myself to accommodate my way 
of living, and to make things as easy to me as I 
could. o 

I have already described my habitation, which was 
a tent, under the side of a rock, surrounded with a 
strong pale of posts and cables ; but I might now rather 
call it a wall, for 1 raised a kifid of wall up against it 
of turfs, about two feet thick on the outside; and 
after some time — I think it was a year and a half — I 
raised rafters from it, leaning to the rock, and thatched 
or covered#rt with bouglis of trees, and such things 
as I could get to keep out the rain, which I found at 
some times of the year very violent. 

I have already observed how I brought all my goods 
into this pale, and into the cave which I had made 
behind me : but I must observe, too, that at first this 
was a confused heap of goods, which, as they lay in 
no order, so they took up all my place : I had no room 
to tum^myself, so 1 set myself to enlaige my cave and 
works farther into the earth ; for it was a loose, sandy 
rock, which yielded easily to the labour I bestowed on 
it — and so, when I found I was pretty safe as to beasts 
nJi prey, I worked sideways to the right hand into the 
rock : and then, turning to the right again*, worked 
quite out, and made me a door to come out, on the 
outside of my pale, or fortification. 

This give me n6t only egress and regress, as it were 
a back way to my tent and to my storehouse, but gave 
me room to stow my goods. 

And now I began to apply myself to make such 
necessary things as I found I most wanted, particularly 
a chair and a table ; for without tliese I was not able 
to enjoy the few comforts I had in the world — I could 
not write, or eat, or do several things with so much 
pleasure without a table.. 

So I went to work ; and here I must needs observe. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 87 

that as reason is the substance and original of the 
mathematics, so, by stating and squaring everything 
by reason, and by, making the most rational judgment 
of things, every man may be in time master of every 
mechanic art. I liad never handled a tool in my life, 
and yet in time, by labour, application, and contri- 
vance, I found at last that I wanted nothing but I 
could have made it, especially if I had had tools ; 
however, I made abundance of things eVen without 
tools, and some with no more tools than an adze and 
a hatchet, wliich perhaps, were never made that way 
before, and that with infinite labour — for example, 
if I wanted a board, I liad no other way Tmt to cut 
down a tree, set it on (&dge before me, and hew it flat 
on either side with my axe, till I had brought it to 
be as thin as a plank, and then dul* it smooth with my 
adze. It is true, by this method I could make but one 
board out of a whole tree ; but this 1 had no remedy 
for but patience, any more than I had fi)r the pro- 
digious deal of time and labour which it took me up 
to make a plank or board ; but my time and labour 
were little worth, and so they were as well employed 
one way as another. 

However, I made me a table and a chair, as I ol>fc^ 
served above, in the first place — and this I did out of 
the short *pieces of boards that I brought on my raft 
from the ship : but, when I had wrought out some 
boards, cis above, I made large slielv^ s of the.breadth 
of a foot and a half, one over another, all along one 
side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron- 
work, and in a word, to separate everything at large 
in their places, that I might come easily at them. I 
knocked pieces into the wall of the rock to hang my 
guns, and all things that would hang up. 

So that, had my cave been to be seen, it looked like 
a general magazine of all necessary things ; and I had 
everything so ready at my hand, that it was a great 
pleasure to me to see all my goods in such order, 



88 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

and especially to find my stock of all necessaries so 
great. 

And now it was that I began to^keep a journal of 
every day's employment ; for indeed at first I was in 
too much a hurry ; and not ohly hurry .as to Tabour, 
but in too much discomposure of mind, and my journal 
would have been full of many dull things. For 
example, I must have said thps : — September the 30th, 
after I got to shore, and liad escaped drowning, instead 
of being thankful to God for my deliverance, having 
first vomited with the great quantity of salt water 
which was^ gotten into my stomach, and recovering 
myself a iittle, I ran about the shore, wringing my 
hands, and beating my head find face, exclaiming at 
my misery, and crying out, I was undone, undone ! 
till, tired and faint, I was forced to lie down on the 
ground to repose, but durst not sleep for fear of being 
devoured. 

Some days after this, and after I had been on board 
the ship, and got all that I could out of her, yet I 
could^not forbear getting tip to the top of a littk 
mountain, and looking out to sea, in hopes of seeing 
a ship : then fancy at a vast distance I spied a sail — 
^please myself with the hopes of it — and then, after 
looking steadily till I was almost blind, lose it quite, 
and sit down and weep like a child, and thus increase 
my misery by my folly. 

But leaving gotten over these things in some measure 
and havings settled my household stuff and habitation, 
made me a table and a chair, and all* as handsome 
about me as I could, I began to keep my journal, of 
which I shall here give you the^copy (though in it will 
be told all these particulars over again), as long as it 
lasted ; for having no more ink, I was forced to leave 
it off. 



ROBINSON tRUSOIi 


^9 


CHAPTER V 

llfli JOURNAL 

1 begin a Journal — Various Schemes to make Tools, etc. 
— Begin to build a house — Discover Corn — Earth- 
quake and Slurni. ^ • 


September 30, 1659. 

I, POOR miserable Robinson Crusoe, being shipwrecked 
during a dreadful storm in the offing, caniw^n shore 
on this dismal, imfortiwiate islartd, which I called the 
Island of Despair ; all the rest of the ship's company 
being drowaied, and myself almost dc‘acl. 

AU th*e rest of that (lay I spcMit in alllictiiig myself 
at the dismal circumstances 1 was brought to, namely, 
I had neither food, house, clothes, weapon, nor place 
to fly to, and in dc^spaii of any relief, saw nothing but 
death before me, either that I should be devoured by 
wild beasts, murdered by savages, or starved to death 
for want of food. At the approach of night I slept in 
a tree, for fear of wild creatures, but slept soundly^ 
though it rained all night. 

October *1 . — In the morning, I saw to my great sur- 
prise, the ship had floated with the high tide, and was 
driveif on shore again much nearer tlje island ; which, 
as it was some comfort on one hand, for socing her sit 
upright, and liot broken to pieces, I hoped, if the wind 
abated, I might get on board, and get some food and 
necessaries out of her for my relief ; so, on the other 
hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my comrades, 
who, I imagined, if we had all stayed on board, might 
have saved the ship, or at least that they would not 
have been all drowned as they were ; and that had 
the men been saved we might perhaps have built us a 
boat out of the ruins of the ship, to have carried us 



90 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

to some otlier part of tlie world, I spent great part of 
this day in perplexing myself on these things ; but 
at length, seeing the ship almost dry, I went upon the 
sand as near as I could, and then swam on board. 
This day also it continued raining, though with no 
wind at all. 

From the isi of October to the 'i^th . — All these days 
entirely spent in many several voyages to get all I 
could out of the ship, which t brought on shore, every 
tide of flood, upon rafts. Much rain also in these days, 
though with some intervals of fair weather ; but it 
seems this was the rainy season. 

Oct. 20 ^1 overset ni}' raft, and aU the goods I had 
upon it ; but being in shoal 'water, and the things 
being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of them when 
the tide was out. 

Oct. 25. — It rained all night and all, day, with some 
gusts of wind ; during which time the ship broke in 
pieces, the wind blowing a little harder than before, 
and was no more to be seen exce])t the wreck of her, 
and tlvjLt only at low water. 'I spent this day in cover- 
ing and securing the goods which I had saved, that 
rain might not spoil them. 

Oct. 26. — I walked about the shore almost all day, 
to find out a place to fix my habitation, greatly con- 
cerned to secure myself from any attack in the night, 
either from wild beasts or men. Towards night I fixed 
upon a proper place under a rock, and marked out a 
semicircle for my encampment, which I resolved to 
strengthen with a work, wall, or fortification, made 
of double piles, lined within with cable, and without 
with turf. 

From the 26th to the 30th I w'orked very hard 
in carrying all my goods to my new habitation, 
though some part of the time it rained exceedingly 
hard. 

The 31st, in the morning, I went out into the island 
with my gun, to seek for some food, and discover tlie 



ROBINSON •CRUSOE 91 

country ; when I killed a shc-goat, and her kid followed 
me home, which I afterwards killed also, because it 
would not feed. • 

November i. — I set xip my tent under a rock, and 
lay there for the first night, making it as large as I 
could, with stakes driven in to swing my hammock 
upon. 

Nov. 2. — I set up all my chests and boards, and the 
pieces of timber, whiA made my rafts, and with them 
formed a fence round me, a little within the place I 
had marked out for my fortification. 

Nov. 3. — I went out with my gun, and-kiJlcd two 
fowls like ducks, whicl] were very good fooJ In the 
afternoon, went to work to make me a table. 

Nov. 4. — ^This morning I began# to order my times 
of work— of going out with my gun, time of sleep, 
and time of diversion : namely, every morning, I 
walked out with my gun for two or three hours, if 
it did not rain, then employed myself to work till 
about eleven o’clock, they ate what I had to live on, 
and from twelve till two I lay down to slec|>, the 
weather being excessively hot, and then in the evening 
to work again. The working part of this day and of 
the next were wholly employed in making my table? 
for* I was yet but a very sorry workman, though 
time and necessity made me a comjjlete natural 
mechanic soon after, as I believe it would do any one 
else. • ^ • 

Nov. 5. — ^This day went abroad with my gun and 
my dog, and killed a wild cat ; her skin pretty soft, 
but her flesh good for nothing ; every creature I 
killed I took off the skins and, preserved them. 
Coming back by the sea-shore, I saw many sorts of 
sea-fowls, which I did not understand ; but was 
surprised, and almost frighted, with two or three seals, 
which, while I was gazing at, not well knowing what 
they were, got into the sea, and escaped me for that 
time. 



92 ROBINSbN CRUSOE 

Nov, 6. — After my morning walk, I went to work 
with my table again, and finished it, though not to 
my liking ; nor was it long before I learned to mend 
it. *■ « 

Nov. 7. — Now it began to be settled 'fair weather. 
The 7th, 8th, 9th, loth, and part of the 12th (for the 
nth was Sunday), I took wholly up to make me a 
chair, and with much ado brouj^ht it to a tolerable 
shape, but never to please me ; and even in the making 
I pulled it in pieces several times. Note. — I soon 
neglected m}' keeping Sundays : for omitting my mark 
for thenii ifi my post, I forgot which was whicli. 

Nov. 13. — ^'rhis daj it rained, which refreshed me 
exceedingly, and cooled the earth ; but was accom- 
panied with terrible thunder and lightning, which 
frighted me dreadfully for fear of my powaer. As 
soon as it was over, 1 resolved to sc]^arate my stock 
of powder into as many little parcels Jis possible, that 
it might not be in danger. 

Noi^. 14, 15, 16. — Th(ose thcee days I spent in making 
little square chests or boxes, which might hold about 
a pound, or two pound at most, of powder ; and so 
nutting the powder in, I stowed it in places as secure 
and remote from one another as possible. On one of 
these three days I killed a large bird that was good* to 
eat, but I knew not what to call it. 

Nov. 17 — This day I began to dig behind mry tent 
into the rgek, to make room for my farther con- 
veniency. Note. — Three things I wanted exceedingly 
for this work, namely, a pick-axe, a shovel, and a 
wheelbarrow or basket ; so I desisted from my work, 
and began to consider how to kupply that want, and 
make me some tools : as for a pick-axe, I made use 
of the iron crows, which were proper enough, though 
heavy ; but the next thing was a shovel or spade ; 
this was so absolutely necessary, that indeed J could 
do nothing effectually without it, but what kind of 
one to make I knew not. 



ROBINSON (tRUSOE 


93 

Nov, i8. — The next day, in searching the woods, I 
found a tree of that wood, or like it, which in the 
Brazils they call t^e iron tree, for its exceeding hard- 
ness : ^of this, with great labour, and almost spoiling 
my axe, 1 cut a piece, and brought it home too with 
difficulty enough, for it was exceeding heavy. 

The excessive hardness of the wood, and having no 
other way, made me a long while upon this machine ; 
for I worked it eftectuully by little and little into the 
form of a shovel or spade, the handle exactly shaped 
like ours in England, only that the broad part having 
no iron shod upon it at bottom, it would rot last me 
so long ; however, it served well, enough for'^he uses 
which 1 had occasion to put it to ; but never was a 
shovel, I believe, made after that [ashion, or so long 
a-makingi 

I was still deficient, foi 1 wanted a basket or a 
wheelbarrow : a basket 1 could not make by any 
means, having no such things as twigs, that would 
bend to make wicker-warc, at least not yet found out ; 
and as to a wheelbarrow, *1 fancied I could inaife all 
but the wheel, but that 1 had no notion of, neither did 
I know how to go about it ; besides, 1 had no possible 
way to make the iron gudgeons fur the spindle, or* 
axi&, of th^ wheel, to run in, so I gave it over ; and 
•so, for carrying away the earth wnich 1 dug out of 
the ca^ie, 1 made me a thing like a hod, which the 
labourers carry mortar in when they 6crve the brick- 
layers. . ' 

This was not so difficult to me as the making the 
shovel : and yet this, and the shovel, and the attempt 
wliich I made in vain ^o make a wheelbarrow, took 
me up no less than four days — I mean always excepting 
my morning walk with my gun, which I seldom failed; 
and seldom failed also bringing home something to 
eat. 

Nov, 23. — ^My other work having now stood still, 
because of my making these tools, when they were 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


94 

finished 1 went on, and working every day, as my 
strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen days 
entirely in widening and deepening my cave, that it 
might hold my goods commodiously. 

Note . — During all this time I worked rto malce this 
room, or cave, spacious enough to accommodate me 
as a warehouse, or magazine, a kitchen, a dining- 
room, and a cellar : as for my lodging, I kept to the 
tent, except that sometimes, in ^ the wet season of the 
year, it rained so hard that I could not keep myseli 
dry, which caused me afterwards to cover all my place 
within mj&ipale with long poles in the form of rafters, 
leaning 'against the ^rock, and load them with flags 
and large leaves of trees like a thatch. 

December, lo. — J began now to think my cave, or 
vault, finished, when on a sudden (it seems I had made 
it too large) a great quantity of earth fell down from 
the top and one side, so much, that, in short, it 
frighted me, and not without reason too ; for if I had 
been under it, I had never wanted a gravedigger. 
UpoiT this disaster I had a** great deal of work to do 
over again ; for I had the loose earth to carry out, 
and, which was of more importance, I had the ceiling 
•to prop up, so that I might be sure no more would 
come down. 

Dec. II. — ^This day I went to work with' it accord-, 
ingly, and got two shores or posts pitched upright to 
the top, with two pieces of boards across over each 
post ; this I finished the next day ; and setting more 
posts up with boards, in about a week more I had 
the roof secured ; and the posts standing in rows, 
served me for partitions to part oft the house. 

Dec. 17. — From this day to the 20th I placed 
shelves, and knocked up nails on the posts to hang 
everything up that could be hung up : and now I 
be^n to be in some order within doors. 

Dec, 20. — ^Now I carried everything into the cave, 
and began to furnish my house, and set up some 



ROBINSON iCRUSOE 


95 

pieces of boards like a dresser, to order my victuals 
upon ; but boards began to be very scarce with me ; 
also, I made me another table. 

Dec, — ^Much rain all night and all day ; no 

stirring out., 

Dec, 25. — Rain all day. 

Dec, 26. — ^No rain, and the earth much cooler than 
before, and pleasanter. . 

Dec, 27. — Killed a*yoiing goat, and lamed another, 
so that I caught it, and led it home in a string ; when 
I had it home, I bound and splintered up its leg, which 
was broke. iV.B. — I took such care of it tl^at it lived, 
and the leg grew well and as strong as evei*^ but by 
nursing it so long it grdw tame, and fed upon the little 
green at m}^ door, and would not go away. This was 
the first, time that I entertained a thought of breeding 
up some tame creatures, that I might have food when 
my powder and shot are all spent. 

Dec, 28, 29, 30. — Great heats, and no breeze ; so 
that there was no stirring abroad, except in the evening 
for food. This time I spfent in putting all my •things 
in order within doors. 

January i. — Very hot still : but I went abroad 
early and late with my gun, and lay stiU in the middle 
of the day^. This evening, going farther into the valleys 
which lay towards the centre of the island, I found 
there was plenty of goats, though exceedingly shy 
and hard to come at ; however, I aesolved to try if 
I could not bring my dog to hunt them down. 

Jan, 2. — ^Accordingly, the next day I went out with 
my dog, and set him upon the goats ; but I was mis- 
taken, for they all faced about upon the dog ; and he 
knew his danger too well, for he would not come near 
them. 

Jan, 3. — I began my fence, or wall, which, being 
still jealous of my being attacked by somebody, I 
resolved to make very thick and strong. 

N.B , — ^This wall being described before, I purposely 



96 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

omit what was said in the journal ; it Is sufficient to 
observe, that I was no less time than from the 3rd 
of January to the 14th of April, working, finishing, and 
perfecting this wall, though it was no more than about 
twenty-four yards in length, being a half circle* from 
one place in the rock to another place about eight 
yards from it, the door of the cave being in the centre 
behind it. 

All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering 
me many days, nay sometimes weeks together ; but 
I thought I should never be perfectly secure until this 
wall was finished : and it is scarce credible what 
incxpressSle labour^ eveiything was done with, 
especially the bringing piles out of the woods, and 
driving them into the ground ; for I made them much 
bigger than I need*^to have done. 

\™en this wall was finished, and the .outside double- 
fenced with a turf wall raised up close to it, I persuaded 
myself, that if any people were to come on shore there, 
they would not perceive anything like a habitation ; 
aiid k was very well I did so, as may be observed 
hereafter, upon a very remarkable occasion. 

During this time I made my rounds in the woods 
-^or game every day, when the rain permitted me, 
and made frequent discoveries in these walks, of some- 
thing or other to my advantage ; particularly, I 
found a kind of wild pigeons, who built, not as wood 
pigeons> in a tre^, but rather as house pigeons,’ in the 
holes of the rocks ; and taking some young ones, I 
endeavoured to breed them up tame, and did so; 
but when they grew older they flew away, which, 
perhaps, was at first for want of feeding them; for 
I had nothing to give them. However, I frequently 
found their nests and got their young ones, which was 
very good meat. 

And now, in the managing my household affairs, 
I found myself wanting in many things, which I 
thought at first it was impossible for me to make. 



ROBINSON (fRUSOE 97 

as indeed, as to some of them, it was — for instance, 
I could never make a cask to be hooped. I had a 
small runlet or two, as 1 observed before, but I could 
never arrive to the capacity of making one by them, 
though I spent many weeks about it ; I could neither 
put in the heads, nor joint the staves so true to one 
another as to make them hold water, so I gave that 
also over. 

In the next place, I ’^^as at great loss for candle, 
so that as soon as ever it Wcis dark, which was generally 
by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I remem- 
bered the lump of bees' wax with which I made candles 
in m 3 ' African adventure, but 1 had noi*i‘'*^of that 
now. The only remedy .1 had wJs that, when I killed 
a goat I saved the tallow, and, with a little dish made 
of clay, which I baked in the sun, lo which I added a 
wick of some oakum, I made me a lamp ; and this, 
gave me a light, though not a clear, steady light like 
a candle. In the middle of all my labours, it happened 
that, rummaging my things, I found a little bag, 
which, as I hinted before^ had been filled witlj,CQff^ 
for the feeding of poultry, not for this voyage, but 
before, as 1 suppose, when the ship came from Lisbon. 
What little remainder of corn had been in the bag^ 
was all devoured with the rats, and I saw nothing in 
the bag but husks and dust ; and being willing to have 
the bag for some other use — ^I think it was to put powder 
in, when I divided it for fear of the lightning, pr some 
such use — I shook the husks of corn out of it, on one 
side of my fortification, under the rock. 

It was a little before the great rains, just now men- 
tioned, that I threw this stuff away, taking no notice 
of anything, and not so much as remembering that I 
had thrown anything there ; when about a month 
after, or thereabout, I saw some few stalks of something 
green shooting out of the ground, which I fancied might 
be some plant I had not seen ; but I was surprised 
and perfectly astonished, when, after a little longer 



98 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

time, I saw about ten or twelve ears come out, which 
were perfectly green barley, of the same kind as our 
European — nay, as our English barley. 

It is impossible to express the astonishment and 
confusion of my thoughts on. this occasion. I had 
hitherto acted upon no religious foundation at all. 
Indeed, I had very few notions of religion in my head, 
or had entertained any sense of anything that had 
befallen me, otherwise than as a chance, or, as we 
lightly say, what pleases God ; without so much as 
inquiring into the end of Providence in these things, 
or his order in governing events in the world. But 
after 1 barley grow there, in a climate which I 
knew was not proper for com, and especially, that I 
knew not how it came there, it startled me strangely, 
and I began to suggest, that God had miraculously 
caused this grain to grow, without any help of seed 
sown ; and that it so was directed; purely for my 
sustenance on that wild miserable place. 

This touched my heart a little, and brought tears 
out of my eyes, and I begaii to bless myself that such 
a prodigy of nature should happen upon my account ; 
and this was the more strange to me, because I saw 
near it still, all along by the side of the rock, some 
*^other straggling stalks of rice, and which I knew, 
because I had seen it grow in Africa, when I was 
ashore there. 

I not onl}^ thought these the pure productions of 
Providence Jor nly support, but, not doubting but that 
there was more in the place, I went all over that part 
of the island where I had been before, peeping in every 
comer, and under every rock, to see for more of it, but I 
could not find any. At last, it Occurred to my thought, 
that I had shook a bag of chickens* meat out in that 
place, and then the wonder began to cease ; and I 
must confess, my religious thankfulness to God's 
providence began to abate too, upon discovering that 
all this was nothing but what was common, though 



ROBINSON ‘CRUSOE 


99 

I ought to, have been as thankful for so strange and 
unforeseen a providence, as if it had been miraculous ; 
for it was really the work of Providence, as to me, 
that should order or appoint ten or twelve grains of 
com io remain unspoiled, when the rats had destroyed 
all the rest, as if it had been dropped from heaven — 
as also, that I should throw it out on that particular 
place, where, it being in. the shade of a high rock, it 
sprang up immediatdy ; whereas, if I had thrown it 
anywhere else at that time, it had been burnt up and 
destroyed. 

I carefully saved the ears of corn, you may be sure, 
in their season, which was about^ the end of June, and 
laying up every corn, I resolved to sow them all again, 
hoping in time to have some qufintity sufficient to 
supply rpe with bread ; but it was not till the fourth 
year that I could allow myself the least grain of this 
com to eat, and even then but sparingly, as I shall 
say afterwards in its order — for I lost all that I sowed 
the first season, by not observing the proper time — 
for I sowed it just beforfc the dry season, so that it 
never came up at all, at least not as it would have 
done — of which in its place. 

Besides this barley, there were, as above, twent^T 
or thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with the 
sanie care,' and whose use was of the same kind, or 
to the same purpose, namely, to make me bread, or 
rather “food ; for I found ways to cook it up without 
baking, though I did that also after some time. But 
to return to niy journal. 

I worked excessively hard these three or four months 
to get mv wall done ; and the 14th of April I closed it 
up, contriving to go into it, not by a door, but over 
the wall by a ladder, that there might be no sign in 
the outside of my habitation. 

April 16. — I finished the ladder ; so I went up with 
the ladder to the top, and then pulled it up after me, 
and let it down in the inside. This was a complete 
-B-C. D 



100 R0BINS(iN CRUSOE 

enclosure to me ; for within 1 had room enough, and 
nothing could come at me from without, unless it 
could first mount my wall. 

The very next day after this wail was finished, I 
had almost had all my labour overthrown at once’; and 
myself killed. The case was thus ; As I was busy 
in the inside of it, behind my tent, just in the entrance 
into my cave, 1 was terribly frighted with a most 
dreadful surprising thing indeed; for on a sudden 
I found the earth come crumbling down from the roof 
of my cave, and from the edge of the hill, over my head, 
and two ^ the posts I had set up in the cave cracked 
in a frightful mannc;r. I was heartily scared, but 
thought nothing of what was ‘really the cause, only 
thinking that the top of my cave was falling in, as 
some of it had done before ; and for fear I should be 
buried in it, I ran forward to my ladder, and not 
thinking myself safe there neither, I got over my wall 
for fear of the pieces of the hill, which I expected 
might roll down upon me. I was no sooner stept down 
upon Vhe firm ground, but I J^lainly saw it was a terrible 
earthquake, for the ground I stood on shook three 
times at about eight minutes’ distance, with three 
'^uch shocks as would have overturned the strongest 
building that could be supposed to have stood on ^ the 
earth ; and a great piece of the top of a rock, which . 
stood about half a mile from me, next the sea, fell 
down \^ith sucb a terrible noise as I never htkrd in 
all my life: I perceived also the very sea was put 
into violent motion by it ; and t believe the 
shocks were stronger under the water than on the 
island. 

I was so amazed with the thing itself, having never 
felt the like, or discoursed with any one that had, 
that I was like one dead or stupefied ; and the motion 
of the earth made my stomach sick, like one that 
was tossed at sea ; but the noise of the falling of the 
rock awaked me, as it were, and, rousing me from the 



ROBINSON^CRUSOE loi 

stupefied condition I was in, filled me with horror, 
and I thought of nothing then but the hill falling 
upon my tent and all my household goods, and bury- 
ing all at once ; *and thus sunk my very soul within 
me a* second time. 

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more 
for some time, I began to take courage ; and yet I 
had not heart enough tp get over my wall again, for 
fear of being buried* alive, but sat still upon the 
ground, greatly cast down and disconsolate, not 
knowing what to do. All this while I had not the least 
serious religious thought, nothing but the common : 
“ Lord, have mercy upon me 1 *'^and when ifwas over 
that went away too. * 

While I sat thus, I found the air, overcast, and grow 
cloudy, 4IS if it would rain ; soon after that, the wind 
rose by little and little, so that in less than half an 
hour it blew a most dreadful hurricane : the sea was 
all on a sudden covered over with foam and froth, 
the shore was covered with the breach of the water, 
the trees were torn up by the roots, and a tSrrible 
storm it was : and this held about three hours, and 
then began to abate, and in two hours more it was 
stark calm, and began to rain very hard. 

411 this^ while I sat upon the ground, very much 
^ terrified and dejected, when on a sudden it came into 
* my thoughts, that these winds and rain being the con- 
sequence of the earthquake, the earthquake itself was 
spent and over and I might venture into my cave 
again : with fhis thought my spirits began to revive, 
and the rain also helping to persuade me, I went in 
and sat down in my teni ; but the rain was so violent, 
that my tent was ready to be beaten down with it ; 
and I was forced to go into my cave, though very 
much afraid and uneasy, for fear it should fall on my 
head. 

This violent rain forced me to a new work, namely, 
to cut a hole through my new fortification, like a sink. 



102 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

to let water go out, which would else have drowned 
my cave. After I had been in my cave some time, 
and found still no more shocks of the earthquake 
follow, I began to be more composed ; and now, to 
support my spirits, which indeed wanted \t very fnuch, 
I went to my little store, and took a small cup of rum, 
which, however, I did then, and always, very spar- 
ingly, knowing I could havc.no more when that was 
gone. 

It continued raining all that night and great part 
of the next day, so that I could not stir abroad ; but, 
my mind^eing more composed, I began to think of 
what I had best do, concluding, that if the island was 
subject to these earthquakes, there would be no living 
for me in a cave, \iut I must consider of building me 
some little hut in an open place, which I might sur- 
round with a wall as I had done here, and so make 
myself secure from wild beasts or men : but concluded 
if I stayed where I was, I should certainly, one time 
or other, be buried alive. 

Wfth these thoughts, I resolved to remove my tent 
from the place where it stood, which was just under 
the hanging precipice of the hill, and which, if it should 
"be shaken again, would certainly fall upon my tent. 
And I spent the two next days, being the 19th and 20th 
of April, in contriving where and how to femove my, 
habitation. 

The fear of being swallowed up alive made me that 
I never slfept in quiet, and yet the apprehension of 
lying abroad without any fence was almost equal to 
it ; but still, when I looked about, and saw how every- 
thing was put in order, how» pleasantly concealed I 
w^as, and how safe from dantger, it made me very loath 
to remove. 

In the meantime, it occurred to me that it would 
require a vast deal of time for me to do this, and that 
I must be contented to run the venture where I was, 
till I had formed a camp for myself, and had secured 



ROBINSOl} CRUSOE 103 ' 

it so as to remove to it. So, with this resolution, I 
composed myself for a time, and resolved that I would 
go to work with all speed, to build me a wall with 
pilejj and cables, etc* in a circle, as before, and set 
my tent up in it when it was finished ; but that I 
would venture to stay where I was till it was finished, 
and fit to remove to. This was the 21st. 

April 22. — ^The next* morning I began to consider 
of means to put thi*s resolve in execution, but I was 
at a great loss about my tools. I had three large axes, 
and abundance of hatchets (for we carried the hatchets 
for traffic with the Indians) ; but, with mucl^ chopping, 
and cutting knotty h^rd W0064 they were all full of 
notches and dull ; and, though I had a grindstone, I 
could not turn it, and grind my 4 ools too ; this cost 
me as •much thought as a statesman would have 
bestowed upon a grand point of politics, or a judge 
upon the life and death of a man. At length I con- 
trived a wheel with a string, to turn it with my foot, 
that I might have both niy hands at liberty. N^ie , — I 
had never seen any such thing in England, or at least 
not to take notice how it was done, though since I 
have observed it is very common there ; besides th^t 
my grindstone was very large and heavy. This machine 
cost me a, full week's work to bring it to perfection. 

April 28, 29. — ^These two whole days I took up in 
grinding my tools, my machine for turning my grind- 
stone performing very well. * 

April 30.-i-Having perceived my bread had been 
low a great while, now I took a survey of it, and 
reduced myself to one biscuit-cake a-day, which 
made my heart very heavy. 



104 


ROBINSOi^ CRUSOE 


CHAPTER VI 

Ship driven farther aground — Procure quantities of 
Stores from Wreck — Catch a Turtle — 111 of a Fever 
and Ague — ^Terrible Dream and serious Reflections 
—Find a Bible in a Seaman's Chest. 

May I. — In tlie morning, looking towards the sea- 
side, the tide being low, I saw something lie on the 
shore bigg^^^ than ordinary, and it looked like a cask. 
Wlien I came to it, It^found a , small barrel, and two 
or three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were 
driven on shore by< the late hurricane ; and looking 
towards the wreck itself, I thought it seemed to lie 
higher out of the water than it used to do. I examined 
the barrel which was driven on shore, and soon found 
it was a barrel of gunpowder, but it had taken water, 
and the powder was caked as hard as a stone ; however, 
I rolled it farther on shore for the present, and went 
on upon the sands as near as I could to llie wreck of 
the ship to look for more. 

* When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely 
removed: the forecastle, which lay before, buried* in 
sand, was heaved up at least six feet ; and the stem 
(which >yas broke to pieces, and parted from the rest 
by the force of th^ sea, soon after I had left rummaging 
her) was tossed, as it were, up, and cast, on one side ; 
and the sand was thrown so high on that side next 
her stem, that whereas there was a great piece of water 
before, so that T could not come within a quarter 
of a mile of the wreck without swimming, I could now 
walk quite up to her when the tide was out. I was 
surprised with this at first, but soon concluded it must 
be done with the earthquahe ; and, as by this violence 
the ship was more broken open than formerly, so 
many things came daily on shore, which the sea had 



ROBINSO>f CRUSOE 105 

loosened, and which the winds and waters rolled by 
degrees to the land. 

This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design 
of removing my habitation ; and I busied myself 
mightily, that day especially, in searching whether I 
could make any way into the ship ; but I found 
nothing was to be expected of that kind, for that all 
the inside of the ship was choked up with, sand ; how- 
ever, as I had leambd not to despair of anything, I 
resolved to pull everytliing to pieces that I could of 
the ship, concluding, that everything I could get from 
her would be of some use or other to me. » 

May 3. — I began wi±h my sc/v, and cut a piece of 
a beam through, which I thought held some of the 
upper part or quarterdeck together, and when I had 
cut it through, I cleared away the sand as well as I 
could from the side which lay highest ; but the 
tide coming in, I was obliged to give over for that 
time. 

May 4. — I went a~fishing, but caught not OJjp fish 
that I durst eat of, till I was weary of my sport, when, 
just going to leave off, I caught a young dolphin. 
I had made me a long line of some rope yarn, bi;t 
I had no hooks, yet I frequently caught fish, 
as much 9^ T cared to eat ; aU which I dried in the 
.sun, and ate them dry. 

May, — ^Worked on the wreck'— cut another beam 
asunder, and brought three great fir’ planlcs off from 
the decks, wbjich I tied together, and made swim on 
shore when the tide of flood came in. 

Maj^ 6. — Worked on the wreck — ^got several iron 
bolts out of her, and otL’er pieces of iron work ; worked 
very hard, and came homfe very much tired, and had 
thoughts of giving it over. 

May 7. — ^Went to the wreck again, but with an 
intent not to work, but found the weight of the wreck 
had broujght itself down, the beams being cut ; that 
several pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose, and the 



io6 ROBINSdN CRUSOE 

inside of the hold lay so open that I could see into it, 
but almost full of water and sand. 

May 8. — ^Went to the wreck, and carried an iron 
crow to wrench up the deck, which lay now quite 
clear of the water or sand ; 1 wrenched open two 
planks, and brought them on shore also with the tide : 
I left the iron crow in the wreck for next day. 

May 9. — ^Went to the wreck, and with the crow made 
way into the body of the wreck, and felt several casks, 
and loosened them with the crow, but could not break 
them up : I felt also the roll of English lead, and 
could stir^it, but it was too heavy to remove. 

May 10, II, 12, 13^ 14. — ^Went every day to the 
wreck, and got a great many pieces of timber, and 
boards, or planks, land two or three hundredweight 
of iron. < 

May 15. — I carried two hatchets, to try if I could 
not cut a piece of the roll of lead, by placing the edge 
of one hatchet, and driving it with the other, but as 
it lay about a foot and a half in the water, I could not 
make*any blow to drive the ‘hatchet. 

May 16. — It had blown hard in the night, and the 
wreck appeared more broken by the force of the water; 
W I stayed so long in the woods to get pigeons for 
food, that the tide prevented me going to the wreck 
that day. 

May 17. — I saw some pieces of the wreck blqwn on 
shore, dt a great distance, near two miles off me, but 
resolved to see what they were, and found it was a 
piece of the head, but too heavy for me to bring away. 

May 24. — ^Every day to this day I worked on the 
wreck, and with hard labour 1 loosened some things 
so much with the crow that the first flowing tide, 
several casks floated out, and two of the seamen*s 
chests ; but the wind blowing from the shore, nothing 
came to land that day but pieces of timber, and a 
hogshead, which had some Brazil pork in it ; but the 
salt water and the sand had spoiled it. 



ROBINSON* CRUSOE 


107 

I continued this work every day to the r5th of June, 
except the time necessary to get food, which I always 
appointed during this part of my employment to be 
when the tide was up^, that I might be ready when it 
was Sbbed opt ; and By this time I had gotten timber, 
and plank, and iron-work enough to have built a good 
boat, if I had known how ; and also I got at several 
times, and in several pieces, near one hundredweight 
of the sheet lead. 

June 16. — Going down to the sea-side, I found a 
large tortoise or turtle ; this was the first that I had 
seen, which it seems was only my misfortune, not any 
defect of the place, or scarcity • for had riiappened 
to be on the other side* of the island, I might have had 
hundreds of them every day, as I fgund afterwards, but 
perhaps had paid dear for them. 

June lyth I spent in cooking the turtle ; I found 
in her three score eggs ; and her flesh was to me, at 
that time, the most savoury and pleasant that ever I 
tasted in my life, having had no flesh but of goats 
and fowls since I landed* in this horrid place. • 

June 18, — Rained all day, and I stayed within. 
I thought at this time the rain felt cold, and I was 
something chilly, which I knew was not usual in thfft 
latitude. 

June 19. — ^Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather 
had been cold. 

June 20. — ^No rest all night, violent pains in ihy head, 
and feverish. 

June 21. — ^Very ill, frighted almost to death with 
the apprehensions of my sad condition, to be sick, 
and no help. Prayed to God, for the first time since 
the storm off Hull ; but -scarce knew what I said, or 
why, my thoughts being all confused. 

June 22 . — K little better, but under dreadful appre- 
hensions of sickness. 

June 23. — ^Very bad again, cold and shivering, and 
then a violent headache. 



io8 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

June 24. — Mach belter. 

June 25. — Art ague - - very violent ; the fit held 
me seven hours, cold fit and hot, with faint sweats 
after it. 

June 26. — Better ; and, having no victuals to* eat, 
took my gun, but found myself very, weak ; however, 
1 killed a she-goat, and with much difficulty got it 
home, and broiled some of it,, and ate ; I would fain 
have stewed it, and made some broth, but had no pot. 

June 27. — ^The ague again so violent that I lay 
a-bed all day, and neither ate nor drank. I was ready 
to perish for thirst, but so weak I had not strength 
to stand ’up, or to ggt myself any water to drink. 
Prayed to God again’ but whs light headed ; and 
wfien I was not, I jyas so ignorant that I knew not 
what to say, only I lay, and cried : “ Lord, look upon 
me I Lord, pity me I Lord, have mercy upon me 1 '' 
I suppose 1 did nothing else for two or three hours, 
till, the fit wearing off, I fell asleep, and did not wake 
till far in the night ; when I waked, I found myself 
much Refreshed, but weak, and exceedingly thirsty ; 
however, as I had no water in my whole habitation, 
I was forced to lie till morning, and went to sleep 
afeaiii. In this second sleep I had this terrible 
dream, — 

I thought that I was sitting on the ground, on the 
outside of my wall, where I sat when the storm blew 
after the earthquake, and that I saw a man descend 
from a great black cloud, in a bright flame of fire, and 
light upon the ground. He was all over as bright as 
a flame, so that I could but bear just to look towards 
him ; his coimtenance was most inexpressibly dread- 
ful, impossible for words to describe ; when he stepped 
upon the ground with his feet, I thought the earth 
trembled, just as it had done before in the earthquake, 
and all the air looked to my apprehension as if it had 
been filled with flashes of &:e. 

He was no sooner landed upon the earth but he 



ROBINSON CRUSOE log- 

moved forward towards me, with a long spear, or 
weapon, in his hand, to kin me ; and when he came 
to a rising ground, at some distance, he spoke to me, 
for I heard a voice so terrible that it is impossible to 
express the terror of it ; all that I can say I understood 
was this : ^ Seeing all these things have not brought 
thee to repentance, now thou shalt die I " at which 
words I thought he lifted up the spear that was in 
his hand to kill me.. 

No one that shall ever read this account will expect 
that I should be able to describe the horrors of my soul 
at this terrible vision — I mean, that even whUe it was 
a dream, I even dreamed of those horrors^ nor is it 
any more possible to describfe the impression that 
remained upon my mind when I awaked and found 
it was but a dream I ^ * 

I hacl, alas 1 no divine 'knowledge. What I had 
received by the good instruction of my father was 
then worn out by an uninterrupted series, for eight 
years, of seafaring wickedness, and a constant con- 
versation with nothing but sucli as were, like myself, 
wicked and profane to the last degree I do not 
remember that I had, in all that time, one thought 
that so much as tended either to looking upwa^s 
towards God, or inwards towards a reflection upon 
m^ own ways. But a certain stupidity of soul, with- 
out desire of good, or conscience of evil, had entirely 
over>fhelmed me, and I was all that the most hardened, 
unthinking, wicked creature, among our common 
sailors, can be supposed to be, not having the least 
sense, either of the fear of God in danger, or of thank- 
fulness to God in deliyerances. 

In the relating what js already past of my story 
this will be the more easily believed, when I shall add, 
that, through all the variety of miseries that had to 
this day befallen me, I never had so much as one 
thought of it being the hand of God, or that it was a 
just pimishment for my sin, my rebellious behaviour 



no 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


against my father, or my present sins, which were 
great — or so much as a punishment for the general 
course of my wicked life. When I was on the des- 
perate expedition on the desert shores of Africa, I 
never had so much as one thought of what would 
become of me, or one wish to God to direct me whither 
I should go, or keep me from the danger which 
apparently surrounded me, as well from voracious 
creatures as cruel savages : but I .was merely thought- 
less of a God, or a Providence, acted like a mere brute 
from the principles of nature, and by the dictates of 
common sense only, and indeed hardly that. 

When Pwas delivered and taken up at sea by the 
Portugal captain, weh used, and dealt justly and 
honourably with, as well as charitably, I had not the 
least thankfulness m my^ thoughts. When again I 
was shipwrecked, ruined, and in danger of drowning 
on this island, I was as far from remorse, or looking 
on it as a judgment — I only said to myself often, that 
I was an tmfortunate dog, and born to be always 
miserable. ^ 

It is true, when I got on shore first here, and found 
all my ship's crew drowned, and myself spared, I was 
sv.rprised with a kind of ecstasy, and some transports 
of soul, which, had the grace of God assisted, might 
have come up to true thankfulness ; but‘ it ended 
where it began, in a mere common flight of joy, or, as 
I may say, being, glad I was alive, without the least 
reflection upon the distinguishing goodnes.^ of the 
Hand which had preserved me, and had singled me 
out to be preserved when all the rest were destroyed ; 
or an inquiry why Providence had been thus merciful 
to me ; even just the same gammon sort of joy which 
seamen generally have after they have got safe on 
shore from a shipwreck, which they drown all in the 
next bowl of punch, and forget almost as soon as it 
is over ; and all the rest of my life was like it. 

Even when I was afterwards, on due consideration. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE iii 

made sensible of my condition, how I was cast on this 
dreadful place, out of the reach of human kind, out 
of all hope of relief, or prospect of redemption, a 
soon as I saw but a prospect of living, and that I 
should not starve or perish for hunger, all the sense 
of my affliction wore off, and I began to be very easy, 
applied m 5 rself to the works proper for my preservation 
and supply, and was far enough from being afilicted 
at my condition, as judgment from Heaven, or as 
the hand of God against me; these were thoughts 
which very seldom entered my head. 

The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my 
journal, had at first some little influence •upon me, 
and began to affect me with sefiousness, as long as I 
thought it had something miraculous in it ; but as 
soon as ever that part of thouglft was removed, all 
the impression which was raised from it wore off also, 
as I have noted already. 

Even the earthquake, though nothing could be more 
terrible in its nature, or more immediately directing 
to the invisible Power, wliich alone directs such filings; 
yet no sooner was the first fright over, but the im- 
pression it had made went off also. I had no more 
sense of God or his judgments, much less of the present 
affliction of my circumstances being from His hand, 
thafn if I 4iad been in the most prosperous condition 
’ of life. 

But* now, when I began to be siclv and a leisurely 
view of the miseries of death came to place itself before 
me ; when my spirits began to sink under the burden 
of a strong distemper, and nature was exhausted with 
the violence of the fever, conscience, that had slept 
so long, began to awakq, and I began to reproach 
myself with my past life, in which I had so evidently, 
by uncommon wickedness, provoked the justice of 
God to lay me under uncommon strokes, and to deal 
with me in so vindictive a manner. 

These reflections oppressed me from the second or 



II2 ROBINSON CRQSOE 

third day of my distemper; and in the violence, as 
well ot the fever as of the dreadful reproaches of my 
conscience, extorted some words from me like praying 
to God, though I cannot say they wete either a prayer, 
attended with desires or with ‘hopes : it was rather 
the voice of mere fright and distress : fny thoughts 
were confused, the convictions great upon my mind, 
and the horror of dying in such a miserable condition 
raised vapours into my head with the mere appre- 
hensions ; and, in these hurries of my soul, 1 knew 
not what my tongue might express : but it was rather 
exclamation, such as, “ Lord I what a miserable 
creature tin I ! If I should be sick, I shall certainly 
die for want of help, hnd what will become of me ! ' 
Then the tears burst out of my eyes, and I could say 
no more for a good* while. 

In this interval, the good advice of my father came 
to my mind, and presently his prediction, which I 
mentioned in the beginning of this story, namely, that, 
if I did take this foolish step, God would not bless me, 
and would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon hav- 
ing neglected his counsel, when there might be none to 
assist in my recovery. Now," said I, aloud, my 
dear father’^ words are come to ptiss r God's justice 
has overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear 
me. I rejected the voice of Providence, Which had 
mercifully put me in a posture or station of life wherein 
I might have been happy and easy; but I ‘would 
neither see^it myself, nor learn to know the blessing 
of it from my parents. I left them to mourn over my 
folly, and now I am left to mourn over the consequences 
of it. I refused their help an(J assistance, who would 
have lifted me into the eWorld, and would have 
made everything easy to me, and now I have 
difficulties to struggle with, too great for even nature 
itself to support, and no assistance, no help, no 
comfort, no advice." Then I cried out, " Lord, be my 
help; for I am in great distress ! " 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 113 

This was the first prayer, if I might call it so, that 
I had made for many years. But I return to my 
journal. 

June 28. — Having been somewhat refreshed with 
the sleep I had had, -and the tit being entirely off, I 
got up ; and though the fright and terror of my dream 
was very great, yet I considered that the fit of the ague 
would return again the next day, and now was my time 
to get something to jreffesh and support myself, when 
I should be ill : and the first thing I did, I filled a 
large square case-bottle with water, and set it upon 
my table in reach of my bed ; and to take off the chill 
or aguish disposition of the water, I pii^r about a 
quarter of a pint of rum in tor it, and mixed them 
together ; then T got me a piece of the goat’s flesh, 
and broiled it on the coals, but dbuld eat very little. 
I walked about, but was very weak, and withal very 
sad and heavy-hearted, under a sense of my miserable 
condition, dreading the return of my distemper the 
next day. At night, T made my supper of three of 
the turtle’s eggs, which Ijoasted in the ashes, a»d ate, 
as we call it, in the shell ; and this was the first bit 
of meat I had ever asked God’s blessing to, even, as 
I could remember, in my whole life. • 

After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found myself 
so Veak that I could hardly carry the gun (for I never 
went out without that) ; so I went but a little way, 
and sat down upon the ground, loolyng out wpon the 
sea, which was just before me, and very calm and 
smooth. Ab I sat here, some such thoughts 
occurred to me : — 

What is the earth and sea, of which T have seen so 
much? Whence is it* produced? And what am I, 
and aU the other creatures — wild and tame, human 
and brutal — ^whence are we ? 

Sure we are all made by some secret Power, who 
formed the earth and sea, the air and sky — and who 
is that ? 



II4 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

Then it followed most naturally : — It is God that 
has made it all. Well, but then — it came on strangely 
— if God has made all these things, He guides and 
governs them all, and all things that concern them ; 
for the Being that could make ah things must certsuinly 
have power to guide and direct them. * 

If so, nothing can happen in the great circuit of His 
works, either without His knowledge or appointment. 

And if nothing happens without His knowledge. He 
knows that I am here, and in a dreadful condition ; 
and if nothing happens without His appointment. He 
has appointed all this to befall me. 

Nothing' occurred to my thoughts to contradict any 
of these conclusions ;*• and. therefore, it rested upon 
me with the greater force, that it must needs be that 
God had appointed* all this to befall, me — that I was 
brought to this miserable circumstance by His direction. 
He having the sole power, not of me only, but of every- 
thing that happened in the world. Immediately it 
followed : — 

Wl*}" has God done this t<? me ? What have I done 
to be thus used ? 

My conscience presently checked me in that inquiry, 
as if I had blasphemed ; and methought it spoke to 
me like a voice : '* Wretch I dost thou ask what thou 
hast done ? Look back upon a dreadful misspent life, 
and ask th37self what thou hast not done ? Ask why ' 
it is thait thou wqrt not long ago destroyed ? Why wert 
thou not drowned in Yarmouth Roads? killed in 
the fight, when the ship was taken by the Sallee 
man-of-war ? devoured by the wild beasts on the 
coast of Africa; or drowned here, when all the 
crew perished but thj^elf ?. *Dost thou ask. What 
have I done ? '* 

I was struck with these reflections, as one astonished, 
and had not a word to say — ^no, not to answer to 
myself ; but rose up, pensive and sad, walked back 
to my retreat, and went up over my wall, as if I had 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 115 

been going to bed ; but my thoughts were sadly 
disturbed, and I had no inclination to sleep, so I sat 
down in my chair, and lighted my lamp, for it began 
to be dark. N«w, as the apprehensions of the 
retunt of my distemper terrified me very much, it 
occurred to ftiy thought that the Brazilians take no 
physic but their tobacco for almost all distempers ; 
and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the 
chests, which was quite cured, and some also that was 
green, and not quite cured. 

I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt ; for in this 
chest 1 found a cure both for soul and body. I opened 
the chest, and found what I had looked fox^ namely, 
the tobacco : and as the few ly)oks I had saved lay 
there too, I took out one of the Bibles, which I men- 
tioned before, and which, to this time, I had not found 
leisure, hr so much as inclination, to look into — I say, 
I took it out and brought botli that and the tobacco 
with me to the table. 

What use to make of the tobacco, I knew not, as 
to my distemper, or whether it was good for it or no ; 
but I tried several experiments with it, as if It was 
resolved it should hit one way or other. I first took a 
piece of a leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, which 
indeed, at first, almost stupefied my brain, the tobacco 
beihg green and strong, and 1 had not been much used 
’to it ; then I took some, and steeped it an hour or 
two in some mm, and resolved to take a dose of it 
when I lay down ; and lastly, I buhit some* upon a 
pan of coals, and held my nose close over the 
smokQ of it, as long as I could bear it, as well for 
the heat as the virtue of it, and I held almost to 
suffocation. • 

In the interval of this occupation, I took up the 
Bible, and began to read ; but my head was too much 
disturbed with the tobacco to bear reading, at least 
at that time ; only, having opened the book casually, 
the first words that occurred to me were these : “ Call 



ii6 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

on me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver ; and 
thou shalt glorify me/' 

The words were very apt to my case, and made 
some impression upon my thoughts at the time of 
reading them, though not so muoi as they did, after- 
wards; for, as for being delivered, the word had no 
sound, as 1 may say, to me. The thing was so remote, 
so impossible, in my apprehension of things, that I 
began to say, as the children of Israel did when they 
were promised flesh to eat, God spread a table 

in the wilderness ? So I began to say, Can God 
himself deliver me from this place ? " And as it was 
not for many years that any hope appeared, this pre- 
vailed very often upon my tl^oughts. But, however, 
the words made a very great impression upon me, and 
I mused upon them very often. It grew now late 
and the tobacco had, as I said, dosed my head so much, 
that I inclined to sleep, so that I left my lamp burning 
in the cave, lest I should want anything in the night, 
and went to bed. But before I lay down I did what I 
never had done in all my life — 1 kneeled down and, 
prayfil to God to fulfil the promise to me, that, if I 
called upon him in the day of trouble, he would deliver 
me. After my broken and imperfect prayer was over, 
r drank the rum, in which I had steeped the tobacco, 
which was so strong and rank of tlie tobacco, that 
indeed T could scarce get it down. Immediately upon 
this, I went to bed, and found presently it flew up into 
my head violently ; but I fell into a sound sleep, and 
waked no more, till, by the sun, it must necessarily 
be near three o'clock in the afternoon the next day ; 
nay, to this day, I am partly of the opinion, that I 
slept all the next day and night, and till almost three 
the day after ; for otherwise, I know not how I should 
lose a day out of my reckoning, in the days of the 
week, as it appeared, some years after, I had done ; 
for if I had lost it by crossing and recrossing the 
Line, I should have lost more than a day; but in 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 117 

my acccmnt it was lost, and I never knew which 
way. 

Be that, however, one way or other ; when I awaked, 
I found myself ejiceedingly refreshed, and my spirits 
lively* and cheerful. When I got up I was stronger 
than I was the day before, and my stomach better, 
for I was hun^y ; and in short, I had no fit the next 
day, but continued much altered for the better : this 
was the 29th. , • 

The 30th was my well day, of course, and I went 
abroad with my gun, but did not care to travel too 
far : I killed a sea-fowl or two, something like a brand 
goose, and brought them home, but was^pot very 
forward to eat them so I ale some more of the 
turtle's eggs, which were very good. This evening 
I renewed the medicine, which I had suj)posed did mie 
good the day before, namely, the tobacco steeped in 
rum ; only, I did not take so much as before, nor did 
I chew any of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke; 
however, I was not so well the next day, which was 
the ist of July, as I hoped I should have beeiy for 
I had a little spice of the cold fit, but it was not much. 

July 2. — I renewed the medicine all the three ways, 
and dosed myself with it as at first, and doubled tl^e 
quantity which 1 drank. 

July 3.^1 missed the fit for good and all, though 
* I did not recover my full strength for some weeks 
after.* While I was thus gathering strength, my 
thoughts ran exceedingly upon this Scripture, “ I 
will deliver thee ; " and the impossibility of my 
deliverance lay much upon my mind, in bar of my 
ever expecting it : but as I was discouraging myself 
with such thoughts, it* occurred to my mind, that I 
pored so much upon my deliverance from the main 
affliction, that I disregarded the deliverance I had 
received, and I was, as it were, made to ask myself 
such questions as these : namely, Have I not been 
delivered, and wonderfully too, from sickness — from 



ii 8 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

the most distressing condition that could be, and that 
was so frightful to me ? and what notice had I taken 
of it ? had I done my part ? God had delivered me, 
but I had not glorified Him — that is to say, I had not 
owned and been thankful for 4;hat as a deliverance ; 
and how could I expect greater deliverance ? 

This touched my heart veiy much, and immediately 
I kneeled down and gave God thanks aloud, for my 
recovery from my sickness. * 

July 4 . — In the morning I took tlie Bible ; and, 
beginning at the New Testament, I began seriously 
to read it, and imposed upon myself to read a while 
every mpT-ning and every night, not tying myself to 
the number of chapters, but as long as my thoughts 
should engage me. It was not long after I set seriously 
to this work, but J found my heart more deeply and 
sincerely affected with the wickedness of my past life. 
The impression of my dream revived ; and the words, 
“ All these things have not brought thee to repentance,*' 
ran seriously in my thoughts. I was earnestly begging 
of God to give me repentance, when it happened 
providentially that very day, that, reading the Scrip- 
ture, I came to these words : He is exalted a Prince 
and a Saviour to give repentance, and to give 
remission." I threw down the book, and with my heart 
as well as my hand lifted up to heaven, in? a kind of 
ecstasy of joy, I cried out aloud, " Jesus, thou Son* 
of David ! Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Sziviour, 
give me repentahce ! " 

This was the first time that I could say, in the true 
sense of the words, that I prayed in all my life ; for 
now I prayed with a sense of my condition, and with 
a true Scripture view of hope, 'founded on the encour- 
agement of the word of God ; and from this time, I 
may say, I began to have hope that God would hear 
me. 

Now I began to construe the words mentioned 
above, "Call on me, and I will deliver thee," in a 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 119 

different sense from what I had ever done before ; 
for then I had no notion of anything being called 
deliverance, but my being delivered from the captivity 
I was in : for, th®ugh I was indeed at large in the 
place, tyet the island was certainly a prison to me, 
and that in the worst sense of the word ; but now I 
learnt to take it in another sense. Now I looked back 
on my past life with such horror, and my sins appeared 
so dreadful, that my soui sought nothing pf God but 
deliverance from the load of guilt that bore down all 
my comfort. As for my solitary life, it was nothing ; 
I did not so much as pray to be delivered from it, 
or think of it ; it was all of no consideration^in com- 
parison of this ; and I ^dd this li^art here, to* hint to 
whoever shall read it, that whenever they come to 
a true sense of things, they will find deliverance from 
sin a mheh greater blessing than deliverance from 
affliction. 

But, leaving this part, I return to my journal. 

My condition began now to be, though not less 
miserable as to my way of living, yet much easier to 
my mind ; and my thoughts being directed, 8y a 
constant reading the Scripture and praying to God, 
to things of a higher nature, I had a great deal of 
comfort within, which till now I knew nothing ofT 
also; as my health and strength returned, I bestirred 
myself to furnish myself with everything that I 
wanted, and make my way of living as regular as I 
could. • * 

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly 
employed in walking about with my gun in my hand, 
a little and a little at a time, as a man that was gather- 
ing up his strength aftfer a fit of sickness ; for it is 
hardly to be imagined hdw low I was, and to what 
weakness I was reduced. The application which I 
made use of was perfectly new, and, perhaps, what 
had never cured an ague before ; neither can I recom- 
mend it to any one to practise by this experiment ; 



X20 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

and though it did carry off the fit, yet it rather con- 
tributed to weaken me, for I had frequent convulsions 
in my nerves and limbs for some time. 

I learnt from it also this, in particular, that being 
abroad in the rainy season was the most pernicious 
thing to my health that could be, especially in those 
rains which came attended with storms and hurri- 
canes of wind ; for, as the rain which came in a dry 
season was always most accompanied with such 
storms, so I found this rain was much more 
dangerous than the rain which fell in September and 
October. 

I had been now in this unhappy island above ten 
months*; all possibility of doJiverance from this con- 
dition seemed to be entirely taken from me ; and I 
firmly believed, that no human shape had ever set 
foot upon that place. Having now secured my habi- 
tation, as I thought, fully to my mind, I had a great 
desire to make a more perfect discovery of the island, 
and to see what other productions I might find, which 
yet I knew nothing of. 


CHAPTER VII 

I begin survey of Island — Discover Tobacco, Grapes, 
Lemons, and Sugar-canes, wild, but no hurnan in- 
habitants — My Cat returns with Kittens — Shut my- 
self up for the Wet Season. •' 

It was the 15th of July that I began to take a more 
particular survey of the island itsdf. I went up the 
creek first, where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts on 
shore, I found, after I came about two miles up that 
the tide did not flow any higher, and that it was no 
more than a little brook of running water, very fresh 
and good ; but this being the dry season, there was 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 121 

hardly any water in some parts of it, at least not 
enough to run into any stream, so as it could be per- 
ceived. 

On the banks of this brook I found many pleasant 
savainlas or meadows,* plain, smooth, and covered 
with g;rass ; and, on the rising parts of them, next 
to the higher grounds (where the water, as it might be 
supposed, never overflowed), I found a great deal of 
tobacco, green, and growing to a great* and very 
strong stalk ; there were divers other plants, which 
I had no notion of, or understanding about, and might 
perhaps have virtues of their own, which I could not 
And out. •• 

I seaiched for the cassava rocft, which the Indians 
in all that climate make their bread of, but 1 could 
find none. I saw large plants of aloes, but did not 
then understand them ; I saw several sugar-canes, 
but wild, and, for want of cultivation, imperfect. I 
contented myself with these discoveries for this time, 
and came back musing with myself what course I 
might take to know the virtue and goodness of^any 
of the fruits or plants which I should discover, but 
could bring it to no conclusion ; for, in short, I had 
made so little observation while I was in the Brazils# 
that, I knew little of the plants of the field : at least, 
very little “that might serve me to any purpose now 
in my ^distress. 

The next day, the i 6 th, I wen^* up th« same 
way again ; and, after going something fssrther than 
I had done the! day before, I found the brook and the 
savanrjflELS began to cease, and the country became 
more woody than before-. In this part I found different 
fruits, and particularly t found melons upon the 
ground in great abundance, and grapes upon the trees; 
the vines had spread indeed over the trees, and the 
clusters of grapes were now just in their prime, very 
ripe and rich. This was a surprising discovery, and 
I was exceedingly glad of them ; but I was warned 



122 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


by my experience to eat sparingly of them, remember- 
ing that when I was ashore in Barbary, the eating of 
grapes killed several of our Englishmen who were 
Saves there, by throwing them into* fluxes and fevers ; 
but I found an excellent use for these grapes, arid that 
was to cure or dry them in the sun, and 'keep them as 
dried grapes or raisins are kept, w^hich I thought would 
be, as indeed they were, as wholesome and as agreeable 
to eat, when no grapes might be had. 

I spent all that evening there, and went not back 
to my habitation ; which, by the wa3^ was the first 
night, as I might say, I had lain from home. In the 
night I tcok my first contrivance, and got up into a 
tree, where I slept \(ell, and 'the next morning pro- 
ceeded upon my journey, travelling near four miles, 
as I might judge by the length of the valley,^ keeping 
still due north, with a riSge of hills on the south and 
north side of me. 

At the end of this march I came to an opening, 
where the country seemed to descend to the west ; 
and ai little spring of fresh water, which issued out of 
the side of the hill by me, ran the other way, that is, 
due east ; and the country appeared so fresh, so green, 
so flourishing, everything being in a constant verdure, 
or flourish of spring, that it looked like a planted 
garden. 

I descended a little on tlie side of that delicious 
valley, .surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure 
(though mixed with other afflicting thoughts), to 
think that this was all my own, that I* was king and 
lord of all this country indefeasibly, and had a right 
of possession ; and, if I could .gonvey it, I might have 
it in inheritance, as completely as any lord of a manor 
in England. I saw here abundance of cocoa trees, 
orange, and lemon, and citron trees, but all wild, and 
few bearing any fruit ; at least, not then : however, 
the green limes that I gathered were not only pleasant 
to eat, but very wholesome : and I mixed their juice 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 123 

afterwards with water, which made it very wholesome; 
and very cool and refreshing. 

I found now I had business enough to gather and 
carry home ; and' resolved to lay up a store, as well 
of grafpes as limes andr lemons, to furnish myself for 
the wet season, which I knew was approaching. 

In order to do this, I gathered a great heap of grapes 
in one place, and a lesser heap in another place ; and 
a great parcel of limos and lemons in another place ; 
and taking a few of each with me, I travelled 
homeward, and resolved to come again and bring a 
bag or sack, or what I could make, to carry the rest 
home. •• 

Accordingly, having spent thre^ days in this journey, 
I came home (so I must now call my tent and my cave); 
but before I got thither, the grape^ were spoiled ; the 
richness of the fruit and the weight of the juice having 
broken them and bruised them, they were good for 
little or nothing : as to the limes, they were good, but 
I could bring but a few. 

The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having 
made me two .small bags to bring home my harvest. 
But I was surprised, when coming to my heap of grapes 
which were so rich and fine when I gathered theia, 
I fgund them all spread abroad, trod to pieces, and 
.dragged about, some here, some there, and abundance 
eaten and devoured. By this I concluded there were 
some wild creatures thereabouts, whigh had done this; 
but what they were I knew not. . 

However, d& I found there were no laying them up 
on heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack, but 
that one way they woujd be destroyed, and the other 
way they would be crushed with their own weight, 
I took another course ; for I gathered a large quantity 
of the grapes, and hung them upon the out branches 
of the trees, that they might cure and dry in the sun ; 
and as for the limes and lemons, I carried as many 
back as I could well stand under. 



124 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

When I came home from this journey, I contem- 
plated with great pleasure on the fruitfulness of that 
valley, and the pleasantness of the situation, the 
security from stomis on that side^of the water and 
wood ; and concluded, that I had pitched upon a 
place to fix my abode, which v/as by far the worst 
part of the country. Upon the whole, I began to con- 
sider of removing my habitation, and to look out for 
a place, equally safe as where- 1 now was situated, 
if possible, in that pleasant, fruitful part of the island. 

This thought ran along in my head, and I was 
exceedingly fond of it for some time, the pleasantness 
of the pluce tempting me : but when I came to a 
nearer view of it, and to consider that I was now by 
the seaside, where it was at least possible that some- 
thing might happen to my advantage, and .that the 
same ill fate that brought me hither, might bring 
some other unhappy wretches to the same place ; 
and though it was scarce probable that any such 
thing should ever happen, yet, to enclose myself 
amoBg the hills and woods in the centre of the island, 
was to anticipate my bondage, and to render such an 
affair not only improbable, but impossible ; and that, 
therefore, I ought not by any means to remove. 

However, I was'so enamoured with this place that 
I .spent much of my time there for the whole remaining 
part of the month of July ; and though, upon second 
thoughts, I resolved, as above, not to remove, yet I 
built me a dittle kind of a bower, and surrounded it 
at a distance with a strong fence, bdng a double 
hedge, as high as I could reach, well staked, and 
filled between with brushwood ; and here I lay 
very secure, sometimes tworor three nights together, 
always going over it with a ladder, as before ; so 
that I fancied now I had my country-house, and 
my sea-coast house, and this work took me up to the 
beginning of August. 

I had but newly finished my fence, and began to 



ROBINSON ORUSOE 125 

enjoy rny labour, when the rains came on, and made 
me stick close to my first habitation, for though I 
had made me a tcgtit like the other, with a piece of 
sail, ai\d spread it very well, yet I had not the shelter 
of a hill to ke^p me from stonns, nor a cave behind 
me to retreat into when the rains were extraordinary. 
About the beginning of August, as I said, I had finished 
my bower, and begun to. enjoy myself, "fhe 3rd of 
August I found the gi*apes I had hung up* were per- 
fectly dried, and, indeed, were excellent good raisins 
of the sun : so I began to take them down from the 
trees, and it was very happy that I did so, for the rains 
which followed would have spoi^pd thorn, aSd I had 
lost the best part of my winter food ; for I had above 
two hundred large bunches of them. No sooner had 
1 taken them all down, and carried most of them home 
to my cave, but it began to rain ; and from thence, 
which was the 14th of August, it rained more or less 
every day till the middle of October, and sometimes 
so violently that I could not stir out of my cave for 
several days. * * 

In this season I was much surprised with the increase 
of my family : I had been concerned for the loss of 
one of my cats, who ran away from me, or, as I thought,* 
had been dead ; and I heard no more tale or tidings 
of her, till, to my astonishment, she came home, about 
the end of August, with three kittens. I'his was the 
more strange to me, because, though* I had Killed a 
wild cat, as T qalled it, with my gun, yet I 'thought it 
was a guite d&erent kind from our European cats ; 
yet the young cats were the same kind of house Ijreed 
like the old ones ; and both my cats being females, I 
thought it very strange : ‘but from these three cats, 
I afterwards came to be so pestered with cats, that I 
was forced to kill them like vermin, or wild beasts, 
and to drive them from my house as much as 
possible. 

From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain. 



126 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


so that I could not stir, and was now very careful 
not to be much wet. In this confinement I began to 
be straitened for food; but venturing out twice, I 
one day killed a goat ; and the last’ day, which yras the 
26th, found a very large tortoise, which was a treat 
to me, and my food was regulated thus : I ate a bunch 
of raisins for my breakfast, a piece of the goat's flesh, 
or of the turtle, for my dinner broiled (for, to my great 
misfortune”, I had no vessel to boil or stew anything), 
and two or three of the turtle's eggs for supper. 

During this confinement in my cover by the rain, 
I worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my 
cave ; And, by degrees, worked it on towards one side, 
till I came to the outside of tlie hill, and made a door 
or way out, which came beyond my fence, or wall ; 
and so I came in and out this way. But I was not 
perfectly easy at lying so open ; for, as I had managed 
myself before, I was in a perfect enclosure, whereas 
now I thought I lay exposed ; and yet I could not 
perceive that there was any living thing to fear, the 
biggest creature that I had ever seen upon the island 
being a goat. 

September the 30/A. — I was now come to the unhappy 
'^anniversary of my landing — I cast up the notches on 
my post, and found I had been on shore three hundred 
and sixty-five days. I kept this day as a solemn fast, 
setting it apart to a religious exercise, prostrating 
myselfto the ground with the most serious humiliation, 
confessing myself to God^ acknowledging His righteous 
judgment upon me, and praying to Him to have mercy 
on me, through Jesus Christ ; and having not tasted 
the least refreshment for twelve hours, even till the 
going down of the sun, I then ate a biscuit-cake and a 
bunch of grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day 
as I began it. 

I had all this time observed no Sabbath day, for as 
at first I had no sense of religion upon my mind, I 
had, after some time, omitted to distinguish the weeks. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 127 

by making a longer notch than ordinary for the 
Sabbath day, and so did not really know what any of 
the days were ; but now, having cast up the days as 
above, 1 found I Had been there a year ; so I divided 
it intd weeks, and set ■apart every seventh day for a 
Sabbath ; though I found, at the end of my account, 
I had lost a day or two of my reckoning. 

A little after this my ink began to fail me, and so 
I contented myself to use it more sparingly, and to 
write down only the most remarkable events of my 
life, without continuing a daily memorandum of other 
things. 

The rainy season and the dry season beg«n now to 
appear regular to me, and I learned to divide them so 
as to provide for them accordingly. But I bought all 
my experience before I had it ; arid this, I am going 
to relate, was one of the most*discouraging experiments 
that I made at all. I have mentioned that I had 
saved the few ears of barley and rice which I had so 
surprisingly found spring up. as 1 thought, of them- 
selves, and believe there were about thirty stacks of 
rice, and about twenty of barley ; and now I thought 
it a proper time to sow it after the rains, the sun being 
in its southern position going from me. > 

Accordingly, I dug up a piece of ground, as well as 
I could, with my wooden spade, and dividing it into 
’two parts, I sowed my grain ; but as it was sowing, 
it casually occurred to my thought, tjiat I wc»ild not 
sow it all at first, because I did not loiow when was the 
proper time for it ; so I sowed about two-thirds of 
the seods, leaving about a handful of each. 

It was a great comfoi;t to me afterwards that I did 
so, for not one grain of th^t I sowed this time came to 
anything ; for the dry months following, the earth 
having had no rain after the seed was sown, it had 
no moisture to assist its growth, and never came up 
at all, till the wet season had come again, and then it 
grew as if it had been newly sown. 



128 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easily 
imagined was the drought, I sought for a moist er 
piece of ground to make another trial in ; and I dug 
up a piece of ground near my new bower, and sowed 
the rest of my seed in February, a little before the 
vernal equinox ; and this, having the 'rainy months 
of March and April to water it, sprung up very 
pleasantly, and yielded a very good crop ; but having 
part of the seed left only, alhd^not daring to sow aU 
that I had yet, I had but a small quantity at last, my 
whole crop not amounting to above half a peck of 
each kind. 

But by this experience I was made master of my 
business, and knew exactly when the proper season 
was to sow, and that I might expect two seed times 
and two harvests every year. 

While this corn was growing, I made a little discovery 
which was of use to me afterwards. * As soon as the 
rains were over, and the weather began to settle, which 
was about the month of November, I made a visit 
up tfce country to my bower, where, though I had not 
been for some months, yet I found all things just as 
I left them. The circle or double hedge that I had 
^lade was not only firm and entire, but the stakes 
which I had cut off of some trees that grew there- 
abouts, were all shot out, and grown with lolig branches 
as much as a willow tree usually shoots the first year 
after lopping itf head. I could not tell what tree to 
call it that these stakes were cut from. I was surprised, 
and yet very well pleased, to see the yorang trees grow 
— and I pruned them, and led them up to grow as 
much alike as I could — and it is scarce credible how 
beautiful a figure they grew into in three years ; so 
that, though the hedge made a circle of about twenty- 
five yards in diameter, yet the trees, for such I 
might now call them, soon covered it ; and it was a 
complete shade, sufficient to lodge under aU the dry 
season. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 129 

This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, 
and make me a hedge like this in a semicircle round 
my wall, I mean that of my first dwelling, which I did; 
and placing the tifees, or stakes, in a double row, at 
above 'eight yards' distance from my first fence, they 
grew presently, and were at first a fine cover to my 
habitation, and afterwards served for a defence also, 
as I shall observe in its order. 

I found now, that .the seasons of the year might 
generally be divided, not into summer and winter, as 
in Europe, but into the rainy seasons and the dry 
seasons, which were generally thus : — 

Half February, March, half April. — Rainy, 'the sun 
being then on or near thfe equino 5 c. 

Half April, May, June, July, half August. — ^Dry, 
the sun being then to the north of *the Line. 

Half August, September, half October. — Rain, the 
sun being then come back. 

Half October, November, December, January, half 
February. — Dry, the sun being then to the south of 
the Line. • ♦ 

The rainy season sometimes held longer or shorter, 
as the winds happened to blow ; but this was the 
general observation I made. After I had found, by 
experience, the ill-consequences of being abroad in 
the rain, I 'took care to furnish myself with provision 
beforehand, that I might not be obliged to go out ; 
and I sat within doors as much as possible during the 
wet months. 

In this time* I found much employment (and very 
suitable also to the time), for I found great occasion 
of many things which I ihad no way to furnish myself 
with, but by hard labouiw and constant application ; 
particularly, I tried many ways to make myself a 
basket ; but all the twigs I could get for the purpose 
proved so brittle that they would do nothing. It 
proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when 
I was a boy I used to take great delight in standing 



130 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

at a basket-maker's in the town where my father 
lived, to see them make their wicker-ware ; and being, 
as boys usually are, very officious to help, and a great 
observer of the manner how they worked those things, 
and sometimes lent a hand, b had by this means so 
full knowledge of the methods of it, that I wanted 
nothing but the materials ; when it came into my 
mind, that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut 
my stakes that grew, mighf possibly be as tough as 
the sallows, and willows, and osiers, in England ; and 
I resolved to try. 

Accordingly, the next day I went to my country- 
house, as I called it, and, cutting some of the smaller 
twigs, I found them to my purpose as much as I could 
desire ; whereupon I came the next time prepared 
with a hatchet to ^cut down a quantity, which I soon 
found, for there was a great plenty of them ; these 
I set up to dry within my circle, or hedges, and when 
they were fit for use, I carried them to my cave ; and 
here, during the next season, I employed myself in 
making (as well as I could) a great many baskets both 
to carry earth, or to carry or lay up anything, as I 
had occasion ; and though I did not finish them very 
handsomely, yet I made them sufficiently serviceable 
for my purpose ; and thus afterwards I took care 
never to be without them ; and as my wicker-ware 
decayed, I made more ; especially I made strong deep 
baskets^ to place my com in, instead of sacks, when 
I should come to have any quantity of it. 

Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a 
world of time about it, I bestirred myself tc\ see, if 
possible, how to supply two wants ; I had no vessels 
to hold anything that was liquid, except two runlets, 
wnicli were almost full of rum, and some glass bottles, 
some of the common size, and others, whidi were case- 
bottles, square, for the holding of waters, spirits, etc. 
1 had not so much as a pot to boil anything in, except 
a great kettle which 1 saved out of the ship, and which 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 131 

was too big for such cases as I desired it for, namely, 
to make broth, and stew a bit of meat by itself. The 
second thing I would fain have had was a tobacco- 
pipe, but it was impossible for me to make one ; how- 
ever, 1 found a contrb;ance for that too at last. 

I employed myself in planting my second rows of 
stakes of piles, and in this wicker-work, all the summer, 
or dry season, when another business took me 
up more time than it could be imagined I could 
spare. 


CHAPTER \ 1 II 

Make sepond Survey of Island — Catch a Parrot, which 
I teach to speak — Mode of sleeping — Find other side 
of the Island covered with Turtle and Sea-fowl — 
Catch and tame a young Kid. 

I MENTIONED before, that I had a great mind tg see 
the whole island, and that I had travelled up the 
brook, and so on, to where I built my bower, and where 
I had an opening quite to the sea, on the other side 
of the island. I now resolved to travel quite across 
to the sea-shore on that side. So, taking my gun and 
•hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quantity of powder 
and shot than usual, with two biscuit-cakes^ and a 
great bunch of raisins in my pouch,'* for my store, I 
began my jourjiey. When I had passed the vale where 
my bower stood, as above, I came within view of the 
sea to the west ; and it being a very clear day, I fairly 
descried land, whether hn island or continent I could 
not tell ; but it lay vefy high, extending from the 
west to the west-south-west, at a very great distance ; 
hy my guess it could not be less than fifteen or twenty 
leagues off. 

I could not tell what part of the world this might 
R.C. E 



132 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

be, otherwise than that I knew it must be part of 
America ; and, as I concluded by all my observations, 
must be near the Spanish domimons, and perhaps was 
all inhabited by savages, where, I should have 
landed, I had been in a worse condition than J was 
now ; and therefore I acquiesced in the dispositions 
of Providence, which* I began now to own. and to 
believe ordered everything for the best — I say, I 
quieted my mind with this, and left afflicting myself 
with fruitless wishes of being there. 

Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I con- 
sidered, that if this land was the Spanish coast, I 
should certainly, one time or other, see some vessels 
pass or fe^ass one way or other ; but if not, then it 
was the savage coast between the Spanish country 
and Brazil, the inhabitants of which are indeed the 
worst of savages ; for they are cannibals, or men- 
eaters, and fail not to murder and devour all the 
human bodies that fall into their hands. 

With these considerations I walked very leisurely 
forward. I found that side of the island where I now 
was hiuch pleasanter than nSine — the open or savanna 
fields sweet, adorned with flowers and grass, and full 
of very fine woods. I saw abundance of parrots, and 
fain would I have caught one, if possible, to have kept 
it to be tame, and taught it to speak to ii>e. I did, 
after some painstaking, catdi a young parrot ; for 
I knocked it down with a stick, and having recovered 
it, I brought it home, but it was some years before 
I could make him speak. However, at, last I taught 
him to call me by my name very familiarly ; but the 
accident that followed, though it be a trifle, will be 
very diverting in its place. 

I was exceedingly diverted with this journey ; I 
found in the low grounds, hares, as I thought them to 
be, and foxes, but they differed greatly from all the 
other kinds I had met with ; nor could I satisfy myself 
to eat them, though I killed several ; but I had no 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 133 

need to be venturous ; for I had no want of food, and 
of that which was very good too ; especially these 
three sorts ; namely, goats, pigeons, and turtles, or 
tortoise, which added to my grapes, Leadenhall 
Market could not have furnished a better table than 
I, in proportion to the company ; and though my case 
was deplorable enough, yet I had great cause for 
thankfulness, that I was jnot driven to any extremities 
for food ; but rather plenty, even to dainties. 

I never travelled in this journey above two miles 
outright in a day, or thereabouts ; but I took so many 
turns and returns to see what discoveries I could make, 
that I came wearied enough to the place Vhere I 
resolved to sit down for all night ; and then either 
reposed myself in a tree, or surrouT;ided myself with a 
row of stakes set upright in. the ground, either from 
one tree to another, or so as no wild creature could 
come at me without waking me. 

As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised 
to see that I had taken up my lot on the worst side 
of the island ; for here, inueed, the shore was cohered 
with innumerable turtles, whereas, on the other side, 
I had found but three in a year and a half. Here was 
also an infinite number of fowls of many kinds, somfe 
of which \ had not seen before, and many of them 
.very good meat ; but such as I knew not the names of, 
except those called penguins. 

I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was 
very sparing of my powder and shot ; and therefore 
had more mind to kill a she-goat, if I could, which 1 
could better feed on ; and though there were many 
goats here, more than on the other side of the island, 
yet it was with much more difficulty that I could come 
near them — the country being flat and even, and 
they saw me much sooner than when I was on the 
hills. 

I confess this side of the country was much 
pleasanter than mine, but yet I had not the least 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


134 

inclination to remove ; for, as I was fixed in my habi- 
tation, it became natural to me, and I seemed, all the 
while I was here, to be, as it were, upon a journey and 
from home ; however, I travelled along the shore^of the 
sea towards the east, I suppose, about ^twelve miles ; 
and then, setting up a great pole upon the shore for 
a mark, I concluded I would go home again ; and the 
next journey I took should..be on the other side of 
the island, east from my dwelling, and so round, till 
1 came to my post again — of which in its place. 

I took another way to come back than that I went, 
thinking I could keep all the island so much in my 
view, that I could not miss finding my first dwelling 
by viewing the country — ^but I found myself mistaken; 
for, being come abqut two or three miles, I found myself 
descended into a very large valley, but so surjrounded 
with hills, and those hills covered with woods, that I 
could not see which was my way by any direction but 
that of the sun, nor even then, unless I knew very well 
the position of the sun at that time of the day. 

( If "happened, to my further misfortune, that the 
weather proved hazy for three or four days, while I 
was in this valley ; and not being able to see the sun, 
I wandered about very uncomfortably, and at last 
was obliged to find out the sea-side, look for my post, 
and come back the same way I went ; and then, by 
easy journeys, I turned homeward, the weather being 
exceedingly hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, 
and other ‘things, very heavy. 

In this journey, my dog surprised a young kid, and 
seized upon it ; and I running in to take hold of it, 
caught it, and saved it alive -from the dog. I had a 
great mind to bring it home, if I could ; for I had 
often been musing whether it might not be possible 
to get a kid or two, and so raise a breed of tame goats, 
which might supply me when my powder and shot 
should be spent. 

I made a collar for this little creature, and, with a 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


135 

string which I made of some rope-yarn, which I always 
carried about me, I led him along, though with some 
difficulty, till I came to my bower, and there I en- 
closed him, and left him, for I was very impatient to 
be at* home, from whdhce I had been absent above a 
month. 

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to 
come into my old hutch, jand lie down in my hammock- 
bed : this little wandering journey, withcfut a settled 
place of abode, had been so unpleasant to me, that my 
own house, as I called it to myself, was a perfect 
settlement to me compared to that ; and it rendered 
everything about me so comfortable, that^I* resolved 
I would never go a gr<?at way from it again, while it 
should be my lot to stay on the island. 

I reposed myself here a week,* to rest and regale 
myself after my long journey ; during which, most 
of the time was taken up in the weighty affair of 
making a cage for my poll, who began now to be a 
mere domestic, and to be mighty well acquainted 
with me. Then I began to think of the poor kid #hich 
I had pent in within my little circle, and resolved to 
go and fetch it home, and give it some food ; accord- 
ingly I went, and found it where I left it ; for, indeed, 
it qould not get out, but was almosc starved for want 
of food, i went and cut boughs of trees, and branches 
of sugh shrubs as I could find, and threw it over, and 
having fed it, I tied it as I did before,, to lead k away ; 
but it was so tame with being hungry, that I had no 
need to have* tied it, for it followed me like a dog ; 
and, as I continually fed it, the creature became so 
loving, so gentle, and &o fond, that it became from 
that time one of my domestics also, and would never 
leave me afterwards. 

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now 
«ome, and I kept the 30th of September in the same 
solemn manner as before, being the anniversary of 
my landing on the island, having now been there two 



136 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

years, and no more prospect of being delivered than 
the first day I came there. I spent the whole day in 
humble and thankful acknowledgments of the many 
wonderful mercies which my solitary condition was 
attended with, and without which it might havef been 
infinitely more miserable. I gave humble and hearty 
thanks, that God had been pleased to discover to me 
even that it was possible I might be more happy in 
this solitary condition than I should have been in a 
liberty of society, and in aU the pleasures of the world 
— that He could fully make up to me the deficiencies 
of my solitary state, and the want of human society, 
by His presence and the communication of His grace 
to my soul, supporting, comforting, and encouraging 
me to depend upon His providence here, and hope 
for His eternal presence hereafter. 

It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much 
more happy the life I now led was, with all its 
miserable circumstances, than the wicked, cursed, 
abominable life I led all the past part of my days ; 
and ^iOW, having changed both my sorrows and my 
joys, my very desires altered, my affections changed 
their gust, and my delights were perfectly new from 
what they were at my fiurst coming, or, indeed, for the 
two years past. 

Before, as I walked about, either on m'y hunting 
or for viewing the country, the anguish of my soul 
at my condition would breai out upon me on a sudden, 
and my very heart would die within me to think of 
the woods, the mountains, the deserts Twas in ; and 
how I was a prisoner, locked up with the eternal bars 
and bolts of the ocean, in an jininhabited wilderness, 
without redemption. In tl^e midst of the greatest 
composures of my mind, this would break out upon 
me like a storm, and made me wring my hands and 
weep like a child. Sometimes it would take me in 
the middle of my work, and I would immediately sit 
down and sigh, and look upon the ground for an hour 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 137 

or two together, and this was still worse to me ; for 
if I could burst out into tears, or vent myself by words, 
it would go off ; and the grief, having exhausted itself, 
would abate. 

But now *1 began to exercise myself with new 
thoughts — I daily read the word of God, and applied 
all the comforts of it to my present state. One morn- 
ing, being very sad,, I opened the Bible, upon these 
words, “ I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee I 
Immediately it occurred, that these words were to me ; 
why else should they be directed in such a manner, 
just at the moment when I was movjrning over 
my condition, as one . forsaken of God and man ? 
“ Well then," said I, “if God does not forsake me, 
of what ill consequence can it be,* or what matters it 
though* the world should ail forsake me, seeing, on 
the other hand, if I had all the world, and should lose 
the favour and blessing of God, there would be no 
comparison in the loss." 

From this moment I began to conclude in my gfiind, 
that it was possible for me to be more happy in this 
forsaken, solitary condition, than it was probable I 
should have ever been in any particular state in tjj^e 
world ; and with this thought I was going to give 
tha'hks to <jod for bringing me to this place. 

• I know not what it was, but something shocked 
my nlind at that thought, and I durst not speak the 
words. “ How canst thou be such a* hypgcrite," said 
I, even audibly, “ to pretend to be thankful for a 
condition which, however thou mayst endeavour to 
be contented with, thou wouldst rather pray heartily 
to be delivered from ? So I stopped there : but 
though I could not say I thanked God for being there, 
yet I sincerely gave thanks to God for opening my 
eyes, by whatever afflicting providences, to see the 
former condition of my hfe, and to mourn for my 
wickedness, and repent, 1 never opened the Bible, 
or shut it, but my very soul within me blessed God 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


138 

for directing my friend in England, without any order 
of mine, to pack it up among my goods, and for assist- 
ing me afterwards to save it out of the wreck of the 
ship. - • 

Thus, and in this disposition of mind'j I began my 
third year ; and though I have not given the reader 
the trouble of so particular an account of my works 
this year as at first, yet in geiier^ it may be observed, 
that I was very seldom idle, having regularly divided 
my time according to the several daily employments 
that were before me — such as, first, my duty to God, 
and readiag the Scriptures, which I constantly set 
apart some time for, <^hrice every day ; secondly, the 
going abroad with my gun for food, which generally 
took me* up three hours every morning when it did not 
rain ; thirdly, the ordering, curing, preserving, and 
cooking what I had killed or catched for my supply — 
these took up great part of the day ; also it is to be 
considered, that in the middle of the day, when the 
sim /*vas in the zenith, the violence of the heat was too 
great to stir out ; so that about four hours in the 
evening was all the time I could be supposed to work 
in ; with this exception, that sometimes I changed 
my hours of hunting and working, and went to work 
in the morning, and abroad with my gun in the after- 
noon. 

To this short time allowed for labour, I desife may 
be added .the exceeding laboriousness of my work ; 
the many hours which, for want of tools, want of help 
and want of skill, everything that I did took np out 
of my time — for example, I. was full two-and-forty 
days making me a board for a long shelf, which I 
wanted in my cave ; whereas, two sawyers, with their 
tools and saw-pit, would have cut six of them out of 
the same tree in half a day. 

My case was this : it was to be a large tree which 
was to be cut down, because my board was to be a 
broad one. The tree I was three days of cutting down. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 139 

and two more cutting of the boughs, and reducing 
it to a log, or piece of timber. Wilh inexpressible 
hacking and hewing, I reduced both the sides of it 
into chips, till it began to be light enough to move ; 
then 1 turned it, and made one side of it smooth and 
flat, as a board, from end to end ; then, turning that 
side downward, cut the other side till I brought the 
plank to be about three inches thick, and smooth on 
both sides. Any one may judge the labour of my 
hands in such a piece of work ; but labour and 
patience carried me through that and many other 
things ; I only observe this in particular, to show the 
reason why so much of my time went away^ with so 
little work, namely, th^t what jpight be a lit1:le to be 
done with help and tools, was a vast labour, and 
required a prodigious time to do alone, and by 
hand. * 

But notwithstanding this, with patience and labour 
I went through many things, and indeed everything 
that my circumstances made necessary for me to do, 
as will appear by what fojlows. 

I was now, in the months of November and December, 
expecting my crop of barley and rice. The ground 
I had manured or dug up for them was not great ; for 
as I observed, my seed of each was not above tile 
quantity of half a peck, for I had lost one whole crop 
•by sowing in the dry season ; but now my crop 
promised very well, when on a sudden I found I was 
in danger of losing it all again by efiemies of several 
sorts, which it was scarce possible to keep from it ; 
as fir^t, the goats and wild creatures which I called 
hares, which, tasting the sweetness pf the blade, lay 
in it night and day, as'soon as it came up, and ate it 
so close that it could gelt no time to snoot up into 
stalks. 

This I saw no remedy for, but by making an en- 
closure about it with a hedge, which I did with a great 
deal of toil ; and the more, because it required a great 



X40 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

deal of speed, the creatures daily spoiling my com. 
However, as my arable land was but small, suited to 
my crop, I got it totally well fenced in about three 
weeks' time, and shooting some of the creatures in the 
daytime, I set my dog to guard it in the night,. t 5 dng 
him up to a stake at the gate, where he would stand 
and bark all night long ; so in a little time the enemies 
forsook the place, and the corn grew very strong and 
well, and began to ripen apac-e. 

But as the beasts ruined me before while my corn 
was in the blade, so the birds were as likely to ruin 
me now, when it was in the ear ; for, going along by 
the place to see how it throve, I saw my little crop 
surrounded’ with fowlg I kno^y not how many sorts, 
which stood as it were 'watching till I should be gone. 
I immediately let fly among them (for I had always 
my gun with me). I had no sooner shot, but there 
rose up a little crowd of fowls, which I had not seen 
at all, from among the corn itself. 

This touched me sensibly ; for I foresaw that, in 
a few days, they would devour all my hopes ; that 
I should be starved, and never be able to raise a crop 
at all — and what to do I could not tell ; however, 
I resolved not to lose my corn, if possible, though I 
should watch it night and day. In the first place, I 
went among it to see what damage was already done, 
and found they had spoiled a good deal of it ; but 
that, as it was yet too green for them, the loss was 
not so ^eat, but the remainder was like to be a good 
crop, if it could be saved. 

I stayed by it to load my gun and, then coming 
away, I could easily see all the thieves sitting upon all 
the trees about me, as if they only waited till I was gone 
away, and the event proved it to be so ; for, as I 
walked off as if 1 was gone, I was no sooner out of their 
sight, but they dropped down one by one, into the 
axn again. I was so provoked that I could not have 
patience to stay till more came on, knowing that 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 141 - 

every grain they ate now was, as it might be said, a 
peck loaf to me in the consequence ; but, coming up 
to the hedge, I fired again, and killed three of them. 
This was what I 'wished for ; so I took them up, and 
servdd them as we seiVe notorious thieves in England, 
namely, handed them in chains for a terror to others. 
It is impossible to imagine almost that this should 
have such an effect as it had ; for the fowls would not 
only not come at tho corn, but, in short, "they forsook 
all that part of the island, and I could never see a 
bird near the place as long as my scarecrows hung 
there. 

This I was very glad of, you may be sure^ and about 
the latter end of Dec*ember, tvhich was our second 
harvest of the year, I reaped my com. 

I was sadly put to it for a scyth*e, or a sickle, to cut 
it down, and all I could do was to make one as well 
as I could, out of one of the broadswords, or cutlasses 
which I saved among the arms out of the ship. How- 
ever, as my crop was but small, I had no difficulty 
to cut it down : in short, I reaped it my way;#for I 
cut nothing off but the ears, and carried it away in a 
great basket which I had made, and so rubbed it out 
with my hands ; and, at the end of all my harvesting, 

I (ound, that out of my half peck of seed I had near 
two bushfels of rice, and above two bushels and a half 
of barley, that is to say, by my guess, for I had no 
measure at that time. • • 

However, this was a great encouragement to me; 
and I foresaw that in time it would please God to 
supply me with bread ; and yet here I was perplexed 
again, for I neither knew how to grind nor make meal 
of my corn, nor, indeed, .how to clean it and part it ; 
nor, if made into meal how to make bread of it ; and 
if how to make it, yet I knew not how to bake it. 
These things being added to my desire of having a 
good quantity for store, and to secure a constant 
supply, I resolved not to taste any of tins crop, but 



142 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

to preserve it all for seed against the next season, and, 
in the meantime, to employ all my study and hours 
of working to accomplish this great work of providing 
myself with com and bread. 

It might be truly said, that ‘I now worked fdV my 
bread. It is a little wonderful, and what I believe 
few people have thought much upon, namely, the 
strange multitude of little things necessary in the 
providing, producing, curing) dressing, making, and 
finishing this one article of bread. 

I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature, found 
this to be my daily discouragement, and was made 
more and ixiore sensible of it every hour, even after 
I got the first handful of seed corn, which, as I have 
said, came up unexpectedly, and indeed to a surprise. 

First, I had no plough to turn the earth, no spade 
or shovel to dig it. Well," this I conquered by making 
a wooden spade, as I observed before ; but this did 
my work but in a wooden manner ; and though it 
cost me a great many days to make it, yet, for want 
of iren, it not only wore out* the sooner, but made my 
work the harder, and made it be performed much 
worse. 

-However, this I bore with too, and was content to 
work it out with patience, and bear with the badijess 
of the performance. When the corn was** sowed, I 
had no harrow, but was forced to go over it inyself, 
and drag a great heavy bough of a tree over it to 
scratch the earth, as it may be called, rather than 
rake or harrow it. 

When it was growing, or grown, I have observed 
alread} how many things I waated, to fence it, secure 
it, mow or reap it, cure or carry it home, thresh, part 
it from the chaff, and save it. Then I wanted a mill 
to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt to make 
it into bread, and an oven to bake it in ; and all these 
things I did without ; as shall be observed, and yet the 
corn was an inestimable comfort and advantage to me 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 143 

too. But all this, as I said, made everything laborious 
and tedious to me, but that there was no help for ; 
neither was my time so much loss to me, because, as 
I had divided it,. a certain part of it was every day 
appointed to these wojrks ; and as I resolved to use 
none of the corn for bread till I had a greater quantity 
by me, I had the next six months to apply myself 
wholly, by labour and invention, to furnish myself 
with utensils proper for 4:he performing all the opera- 
tions necessary for making the corn, when I had it 
fit for my use. 

But first I was to prepare more land, for I had now 
seed enough to sow above an acre of ground. ^ Before 
I did this, I had a weel^’s work^at least to make me a 
spade, which, when it was done, was a very sorry one 
indeed, and very heavy, and required double labour to 
work with it ,* however, I went ttirough that, and sowed 
my seeds in two large flat pieces of ground, as near 
my house as I could find them to my mind, and fenced 
them in with a good hedge, the stakes of which were 
all cut off that wood which I had set before, which I 
knew would grow ; so that in one year's time I 'ftnew 
I should have a quick or living hedge, that would 
want but little repair. This work was not so little 
as to take me up less than three months ; because 
great part .of that time was in the wet season, when I 
•could not go abroad. 

Within doors, that is, when it rained and I could 
not go out, I found employment (5n the fallowing 
occasions ; always observing, that all the Vhile I was 
at work, I diverted myself with talking to my parrot, 
and teaching him to speak ; and I quickly learnt him 
to know his own namfi, and at last to speak it out 
pretty loud. Poll, which was the first word I ever 
heard spoken in the island by any mouth but my 
own. This, therefore, was not my work, but an assis- 
tant to my work ; for now, as I said, I had a great 
employment upon my hands, as follows : namely. 



144 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

I had long studied, by some means or other, to make 
myself some earthen vessels, which indeed I wanted 
sorely, but knew not where to come at them ; however, 
considering the heat of the climate, I did not doubt 
but, if I could find out any suitable clay, I might .botch 
up some such pot as might, being dried by the sun, 
be hard enough and strong enough to bear handling, 
and to hold anything that was dry, and required to 
be kept so j and as this was necessary in preparing 
corn, meal, etc., which was the* thing I was upon, I 
resolved to make some as large as I could, and fit only 
to stand like jars to hold what should be put into 
them. 


CHAPTER IX 

Make Earthenware — Mode of Baking — Build a Boat — 
Unable to get it to the Water — Ink and Biscuit 
exhausted, and Clothes jvom out — Contrive Dress 
of Skins. 

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh 
at me, to tell how many awkward ways I took to raise 
this paste, what odd, misshapen, ugly things I made ; 
how many of them fell in, and how many fell out, the. 
clay not being stiff enough to bear its own weight ; 
how mdny cracked by the over-violent heat of the 
sim, being Set out too hastily ; and how many fell to 
pieces with only removing, as well before as after they 
were dried : and, in a word, how, after having laboured 
hard to find the clay, to dig it^, to temper it, to bring 
it home, and work it, I could not make above two 
large earthen ugly things — I cannot call them jars — 
in about two months* labour. 

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and 
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set them down 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


145 

again in two great wicker baskets, which I had made 
on purpose for them, that they might not break ; 
and, as between the pot and the basket there was a 
little room to spdre, I stuffed it full of the rice and 
barley straw ; and these two pots being to stand 
always dry, I thought would hold my dry com, and 
perhaps the meal when the corn was bruised. 

Though I miscarried sp much in my design for large 
pots, yet I made several smaller things 'with better 
success : such as little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers, 
and pipkins, anything my hand turned to ; and the 
heat of the sun baked them strangely hard. 

But all this would not answer my end,^hich was 
to get an earthen pot to hold 'what was liquid, and 
bear the fire, which none of these ^ could do. It hap- 
pened after some time, making a pretty large fire for 
cooking my meat, when I went to put it out, after I 
had done with it, I found a broken piece of one of my 
earthenware vessels in the fire, burnt as hard as a 
stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeably surprised 
to see it, and said to tayself, that certainly •they 
might be made to bum whole, if they would bum 
broken. 

This set me to study how to order my fire, so as 
to make it bum me some pots, I had no notion of a kiln 
.such as tile potters bum in, or of glazing them with 
lead, .though I had some lead to do it with ; but I 
placed three large pipkins, and twa or thite pots, 
m a pile, one upon another, and placed my firewood 
all around it, With a great heap of embers under them. 
I piled the fire with fresh fuel round the outside, and 
upon the top, tiU I saw the pots in the inside red hot 
quite through, and observed that they did not crack 
at all : when I saw them dear red, I let them stand 
in that heat about five or six hours, till I found one 
of them, though it did not crack, did melt, or run ; 
for the sand which was mixed with the day melted 
by the violence of the heat, and would have run into 



146 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

glass if I had gone on ; so I slacked my fire gradually, 
till the pots began to abate of the red colour, and 
watching them all night, that I might not let the fire 
abate too fast, in the morning I had three very good, 

I will not say handsome, pipkins, and two other 
earthen pots, as hard burnt as could be' desired, and 
one of them perfectly glazed with the running of the 
sand. 

After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted 
no sort of earthenware for my use ; but I must needs 
say, as to the shapes of them, they were very indifferent, 
as any one may suppose, when I had no way of making 
them but ms the children make dirt pies, or as a 
woman would make pies that never learnt to raise 
paste. 

No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever 
equal to mine, when I found I had made an earthen 
pot that would bear the fire ; and I had hardly 
patience to stay till they were cold, before I set one 
upon the fire again with some water in it, to boil me 
somm meat, which it did admirably well ; and with a 
piece of kid, I made some very good broth, though I 
wanted oatmeal, and several other ingredients requi- 
site to make it so good as I would have had it. 

My next concern was to get me a stone mortal to 
stamp or beat some corn in ; for as to the mill, there, 
was no thought of arriving to that perfection Qf art* 
with one pair o£ hands. To supply this want, I was 
at a great loss ; for, of all the trades in the world, I 
was as perfectly unqualified for a stonfi-cutter as for 
any whatever ; neither had I any tools to go about it 
with. I spent many a day ta find out a great stone 
big enough to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar, 
and could find none at dl, except what was in the 
solid rock, and which I had no way to dig, or cut out ; 
nor indeed were the rocks in the island of hardness 
sufficient, but were all of a sandy crumbling stone, 
which would neither bear the weight of a heavy pestlr. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 147 

nor would break the com without filling it with sand ; 
so, after a great deal of time lost in searching for a 
stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out for a 
great block of hard wood, which I found indeed much 
easier*; and, getting ohe as big as 1 had strength to 
stir, I rounded it, and formed it on the outside with 
my axe and hatchet ; and then, with the help of 
fire and infinite labour, ^nade a hollow place in it, as 
the Indians in Brazil* make their canoes.' After this 
I made a great heavy pestle, or beater, of the wood 
called the iron-wood, and this I prepared and laid by 
against I had my next crop of corn, when I proposed 
to myself to grind, or rather pound, my coirh, t)r meal, 
to make my bread. ‘ • 

My next difficulty was to make ^ a sieve, or scarce, 
to dresSi my meal, and part it from the bran and the 
husk, without which I did not see it possible I could 
have any bread. This was a most difficult thing, so 
much as but to think on ; for, to be sure, I had nothing 
like the necessary things to make it with — I mean 
fine thin canvas, or stuff, no scarce the meal thrtnigh. 
And here I was at a full stop for many months ; nor 
did I know really what to do ; linen I had none left 
but what was mere rags ; I had goat's hair, but neither 
knejv I how to weave or spin it ; and had I known 
how, here* were no tools to work it with. All the 
remeciy that I found for this was, that at last 1 did 
remember I had among the seameiiis clothes which 
were saved out of the ship, some neckcloths of calico, 
or muslin; ahd with some pieces of tliese I made 
three small sieves, but proper enough for the work ; 
and thus I made shift* for some years. How I did 
afterwards, I shall show in its place. 

The baking part was the next tiling to be considered, 
and how I should make bread when I came to have 
corn ; for, first, I had no yeast ; as to that part, there 
was no supplying the want, so I did not concern myself 
much about it- But for an oven, I was, indeed, in 



148 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

great pain. At length I found out an expedient for 
that also, which was this: — I made some earthen 
vessels very broad, but not deep ; that is to say, about 
two feet diameter, and not above ‘nine inches deep ; 
these I burnt in the fire, as I had done the others, and 
laid them by ; and when I wanted to bake, I made a 
great fire upon the hearth, which I had paved with 
some square tiles of my own making and burning also 
“but I should not call them square. 

When the firewood was burnt pretty much into 
embers, or live coals, I drew them forward upon this 
hearth, so as to cover it all over, and there I let them 
lie, till theiiearth was very hot ; then, sweeping away 
all the embers, I set'* down my loaf, or loaves, and, 
whelming down the earthen pot upon them, drew the 
embers aU round the outside of the pot, to keep in, 
and add to the heat : aiid thus, as well as in the best 
oven in the world, I baked my barley-loaves, and 
became in a little time a good pastry-cook into the 
bargain ; for I made myself several cakes of the rice, 
and '•puddings : indeed, I made no pies, neither had 
1 anything to put into them, supposing I had, except 
the flesh either of fowls or goats. 

It need not be wondered at, if all these things took me 
up most part of the third year of my abode here for 
it is to be observed, that in the interval of these things 
I had my new harvest and husbandry to mapage ; 
for I reaped my .com in its season, and carried it home 
as well as -I could, and laid it up in the ear, in my 
large baskets, till I had time to mb' it out ; for I 
had no floor to thrash it on, or instrument to tl^ash it 
with. 4 

And now, indeed, my stock of com increasing, I 
really wanted to build my barns bigger ; I wanted 
a place to lay it up in ; for the increase of the 
com now yielded me so much, that I had of the 
barley about twenty bushels, and of the rice as 
much, or more ; insomuch, that I now resolved to 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 149 

begin to use it freely, for my bread had been quite 
gone a great while ; also I resolved to see what quan- 
tity would be sufficient for me a whole year, and to 
sow but once a yefir, 

Up9n the whole, I found that the forty bushels of 
barley and ric.e were much more than I could consume 
in a year ; so I resolved to sow just the same quantity 
every year that I sowed the last, in hopes that such a 
quantity would fully provide me with bread, etc. 

All the while these* things were doing, you may be 
sure my thoughts ran many times upon the prospect 
of land which I had seen from the other side of the 
island ; and I was not without secret wishes that I 
was on shore there, fancying that, seeing* tKe main- 
land and an inhabited country, I might find some way 
or other to convey myself farther, and perhaps, at 
last find some means 01 escape. 

But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers 
of such a condition, and how I might fall into the hands 
of savages, and, perhaps, such as I might have reason 
to think far worse than the lions and tigers of Africa 
—that, if I once came into their power, I should* run 
a hazard more than a thousand to one of being killed, 
and, perhaps, of being eaten ; for I had heard that 
the people of the Carribean coasts were cannibals, 
or men-eaters ; and I knew by the latitude that I 
could not be far off from that shore — that, suppose 
they were’ not cannibals, yet they might kill me, as 
many Europeans who had fallen into 'their hands had 
been served, eyen when they had been teri or twenty 
together ; much more I that was but one, and could 
make little or no defence. All these things, I say, 
which I ought to have tonsidered well off, and I did 
cast up in my thoughts afterwards, yet took none of 
my apprehensions at first : and my head ran mightily 
upon the thoughts of getting over to that shore. 

Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat 
with the shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed 



150 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

above a thousand miles on the coast of Africa ; but 
this was in vain. Then I thought I would go and look 
on our ship's boat, which, as I have said, was blown 
up upon the shore a great way in the storm, when we 
were first cast away. She lay, almost where she did 
at first, but not quite, and was turned by the force 
of the waves and the winds almost bottom upwards, 
against the high ridge of a beachy rough sand, but 
no water about her as before. 

If I had had hands to have refitted her, and have 
launched her into tlie water, the boat would have 
done very well, and I might have gone back into the 
Brazils ^it]i her easy enough ; but 1 might have easily 
foreseen that I could, pot moi;e turn her, and set her 
upright upon her bottom, than I could remove the 
island. However, I went to the wood, and cut levers 
and rollers, and brought* them to the boat, i-tsolving 
to try what I could do, suggesting to myself, that if 
I could but turn her down, I might easily repair the 
damage she had received, and she would be a 
very^good boat, and I might go to sea in her very 
easily. 

I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless 
toil, and spent, I think, three or four weeks about it ; 
at last, finding it impossible to heave it up with my 
little strength, I fell to the digging away the sand to 
undermine it, and so to make it fall down, setting 
pieces of w'ood to thrust and guide it right Li the 
faU. 

But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it 
up again, or to get under it, much less to move it for- 
ward towards the water ; so I was forced to ^ve it 
over : and yet, though I gave over the hopes of the 
boat, my desire to venture over for the main increased, 
rather than decreased, as the means for it seemed 
impossible. 

This at length set me upon thinking whether it 
was not possible to make myself a canoe, or periagua. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


151 

such as the natives of those climates make, even with- 
out tools, or, as I might say, without hands, namely, 
of the trunk of a great tree. This I not only thought 
possible, but easy ,* and pleased myself extremely with 
the thoughts of making it, and with having much 
more convenii^nce for it than any of the negroes or 
Indians ; but not at all considering the particular 
inconveniences which I ^ lay under more than the 
Indians did, namely, 'Waht of hands to move it into 
the water when it was made — a difficulty much harder 
for me to surmount than all the consequences of want 
of tools could be to them : for what was it to me that, 
when I had chosen a vast tree in the woods, i might 
with great trouble cut it 'down, i} after I might be able 
with my tools to hew and dub the outside into the 
proper shape of a boat, and burn or cut out the inside 
to make it hollow, so as to make a boat of it — if, after 
all this, I must leave it just there where I found it, 
and was not able to launch it into the water ? 

One would have thought, I could not have had the 
least reflection upon my mind of my circumstances, 
while I was making this boat, but I should have im- 
mediately thought how I should get it into the sea ; 
but my thoughts were so intent upon my voyage over 
the §ea in it, that I never once considered how I should 
get it off thfe land ; and it was really, in its own nature, 
more pasy for me to guide it over forty-five miles of 
sea, than about forty-five fathoms of, land, where it 
lay, to set it afloat in the water. 

I went to wiftrk upon this boat the most like a fool 
that ever man did who had any of his senses awake. 
I pleased myself with the design, without determining 
whether I was ever able .to undertake it ; not but 
that the difficulty of laim(5hing my boat came often 
into my head ; but I put a stop to my own inquiries 
into it by this foolish answer which I gave myself : 
Let me first make it, Fll warrant Til find some way or 
other to get it along when it is done. 



152 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

This was a most preposterous method ; but the 
eagerness of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went, 
and felled a cedar tree — I question much whether 
Solomon ever had such a one for the building the temple 
at Jerusalem. It was five feet ten inches diameter 
at the lower part next the stump, and four feet eleven 
inches diameter at the end of twenty-two feet, after 
which it lessened for awhile, and then parted into 
branches. • It was not without* infinite labour that I 
felled this tree ; I was twenty days hacking and 
hewing at it at the bottom; I was fourteen more getting 
the branches and limbs, and the vast spreading head 
of it, ctit which I hacked and hewed through with 
my axe and hatchet ‘ with inexpressible labour ; after 
this it cost me a month to shape it ; and dub it to a 
proportion, and fo something like the bottom of a 
boat, that it might swim upright as it ought to do. 
It cost me near three months more to clear the inside, 
and work it out so as to make an exact boat of it : 
this I did indeed without fire, by mere mallet and chisel 
and by the dint of hard labour, till I had brought it 
to be a very handsome periagua, and big enough to 
have carried six-and-twenty men, and consequently 
big enough to have carried me and all my cargo. 

When I had gone through this work, I was extrepely 
delighted with it ; the boat was re^y ihuch bigger 
than I ever saw a canoe or periagua, that wa§ made 
of one' tree, in^my life ; many a weary stroke it had 
cost, you •may be sure, for there remained nothing 
but to get it into the water ; and hadT gotten it into 
the water I make no question but I should have begun 
the maddest voyage, and the most unlikely to be 
performed, that ever was ^undertaken. 

But all my devices to get it into the water failed me, 
though they cost infinite labour too. I lay about one 
hundred yaids from the water, and not more ; but 
the first inconvenience was, it was uphill towards the 
creek. Well, to take away this discouragement. I 



ROBINSON CRUSOE X33 

resolved to dig into the surface of the earth, and so 
make a declivity : this I began, and it cost me a pro- 
digious deal of pains ; but who grudge pains that 
have their deliver,ance in view ? but when this was 
worked through, and this difficulty managed, it was 
still much at .one, for I could no more stir the canoe 
than I could the other boat. 

Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved 
to cut a dock, or cand, to bring the watejr up to the 
canoe, seeing I could not bring the canoe down to the 
water : well, I began this work, and when I began to 
enter into it, and calculated how deep it was to be 
dug, how broad, how the stuff was to be tjircvwn out, 
I found that, by the number hands I had, being 
none but my own, it must have been ten or twelve 
years before I should have gone through with it ; for 
the shoi*e lay high, so that the upper end it must 
have been at least twenty feet deep ; so at length, 
though with great reluctance, I gave this attempt 
over also. 

This grieved me heartily ; and now I saw, though 
too late, the folly of beginning a work before we count 
the cost, and before w^e judge rightly of our own 
strength to go through with it. 

In the middle of this work I finished ray fourth 
year in this place, and kept my anniversary with the 
same devotion, and with as much comfort, as ever 
before*; for, by a constant study, and seriou<| appli- 
cation of the word of God, and by the asjiistance of 
His grace, I gained a different knowledge from what I 
had before : I entertained different notions of things; 
I looked now upon the world as a thing remote, which 
I had nothing to do with, no expectation from, and 
indeed no desires about : a word, I had nothing 

indeed to do with it, nor was ever like to have ; so I 
thought it looked as we may perhaps look upon it here- 
after, namely, as a place I had lived in, but was come 
out of it ; and well I might say, as father Abraham to 



154 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

Dives, ** Between me and thee there is a great gulf 
fixed." 

In the first place, I was removed from all the wicked- 
ness of the world here. I had neither the lust of the 
flesh, the lust of the eye, nor the pride of life. *I had 
nothing to covet, for I had all I was now capable of 
enjoying ; I was lord of the whole manor ; or, if I 
pleased, I might call myself king or emperor over 
the whole country which I had possession of : there 
were no rivals ; I had no competitor, none to dispute 
sovereignty or command with me ; I might have 
raised ship-loadings of com, but I had no use for it, 
so I let a^. little grow as I thought enough for my 
occasion ; I had torteises or turtles enough, but now 
and then one wiis as much as I could put to any use ; 
I had timber enough to have built a fleet of ships ; I 
had grnpcs enough to have made wine, or 'to have 
cured into raisins, to have loaded that fleet when they 
had been built. 

But all I could make use of was all that was valuable; 
I had enough to eat, and s^ipply my wants, and what 
was all the rest to me ? If I killed more flesh than I 
could eat, the dog must eat it, or the vermin ; if I 
sowed more corn than I could eat, it must be spoiled. 
The trees that I cut down were lying to rot on the 
ground, I could make no more use of them than for 
fuel — and that T had no occasion for but to dress m\ 
food. » 

In a word, the nature and experience of things dic- 
tated to me, upon just reflection, that all the good 
things of this world are no further good to us than as 
they are for our use ; and fhat, whatever we may 
heap up to give to others, jwe enjoy only as much as 
we can use, and no more* The most covetous griping 
miser in the world would have been cured of the vice 
of covetousness, if he had been in my case ; for I 
possessed infinitely more than I knew what to do with. 
1 had no room for desire, except it was of things which 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 155 

I had not, and they were but trifles, though indeed 
of great use to me. 1 had, as I hinted before, a parcel 
of money, as well gold as silver, about thirty-six 
pounds sterling : alas !* there the nasty, sorry, useless 
stuff lay ; I had no manner of business for it ; and I 
often thought with myself, that I would have given 
a handful of it for a gross of tobacco-pipes, or for a 
handmill to grind my, com ; nay, I would, have given 
it all for sixpenny-worth of turnip and carrot-seed out 
of England, or for a handful of peas and beans, and a 
bottle of ink : as it was, I had not the least advantage 
by it, or benefit from it ; but there it lay vi a.drawer, 
and grew mouldy with Ihe damp of the cave, in the 
wet season ; and if I had had the drawer full of dia- 
monds, it had been the same case, and they had been 
of no manner of value to me; because of no use. 

I had now brought my state of life to be much easier 
in itself than it was at first, and much easier to my mind 
as well as to my body, I frequently sat down to my 
meat with thankfulness, ,and admired the hani of 
God's providence, which had thus spread my table 
in the wilderness. I learnt to look more upon the 
bright side of my condition, and less upon the dar]^ 
side, and to consider what I enjoyed rather than what 
I wtLnted-*-and this gave me sometimes such secret 
comforts, that I cannot express them — and which I 
take Aotice of here, to put those discontented, people 
in mind of it, who cannot enjoy comfortably what 
God hath giv«n them, because they see and covet 
something that He has not given them : all our dis- 
contents about what we ^ant, appeared to me to spring 
from the want of thankfulness for what we have. 

Another reflection was*of great use to me, and 
doubtless, would be so to any one that should fall into 
such distress as mine was ; and this was, to compare 
my present condition with what I at first expected 
it should be — ^nay, with what it would certainly have 
been — ^if the good providence of God had not wonder- 



156 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

fully ordered the ship to be cast up near to the shore, 
where I not only could come at her, but could bring 
what I got out of her to the shore# for ^py relief and 
comfort ; without which I had wanted tools to* Work, 
weapons for defence, or gunpowder and shot for getting 
my food. 

I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in re- 
presenting ^,0 myself, in the most lively colours, how 
I must have acted if I had got nothing out of the ship ; 
how I could not have so much as got any food, except 
fish and turtles ; and that, as it was long before I 
found any of them, I must have perished first — that 
I should have lived, if I had not perished, like a mere 
savage — ^that if I had killed a goat or a fowl by any 
contrivance, I had no way to flay or open them, or 
part the flesh from the skin and tlie bowels, or to cut 
it up ; but must gnaw it with my -teeth, and pull it 
with my claws, like a beast. 

These reflections made me very sensible of the good- 
ness of Providence to me, ^d very thankful for my 
present condition, with all its hardships and mis- 
fortunes ; and this part also I cannot but recommend 
tp the reflection of those who are apt, in their misery, 
to say, “ Is any affliction like mine ? '* Let them 
consider how much worse the cases of some people 
are, and what their case might have been, if Providence 
had thought fit. 

I had another reflection, which assisted me also to 
comfort my mind with hopes ; and thisiwas, comparing 
my present condition with what I had deserved, and 
had therefore reason to expec^, from the hand of Provi- 
dence. I had lived a dreadful life, perfectly destitute 
of the knowledge and fea*' of God. I had been well 
instructed by father and mother ; neither had they 
been wanting to me in their early endeavours to infuse 
a religious awe of God into my mind, a sense of my 
duty, and of what the nature and end of my being 
required of me. But, alas I falling early into the 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 157 

seafaring life, which, of all lives, is the most destitute 
of the fear of God, though his terrors are always before 
them — I say, falling early into the seafaring life, and 
into seafaring company, all that little sense of religion 
which * I had entertained was laughed out of me by 
my messmate^ — by a hardened despising of dangers, 
and the views of death, which grew habitual to me — 
by my long absence fron\ all manner of opportunities 
to converse with anything but what was like myself, 
or to hear anything of what was good, or tended 
towards it. 

So void was I of everything that was good, or of 
the least sense of what I was, or was to be, diat in the 
greatest deliverance I enjoyed, * such as my escape 
from Sallee, my being taken up by the Portuguese 
master qf the ship, my being planted so well in Brazil, 
my receiving the cargo from fengland, and the like, I 
never once had the words, Thank God I so much 
as on my mind, or in my mouth ; nor, in the greatest 
distress, had I so much thought as to pray to him, 
nor as much as to say, “ Lcird, have mercy upon me ! ** 
— ^no, not to mention the name of God, unless it was 
to swear by, and blaspheme it. 

I had terrible reflections upon my mind for many 
monjhs, as I have already observed, on the account 
of my wicked and hardened life past ; and when I 
looked^ about me, and considered what particular 
providences had attended me, since nay comiilg into 
this place, and how God had dealt bountifully with me 
— ^had not only punished me less than my iniquity 
deserved, but had so plentifully provided for me ; this 
gave me great hopes that*my repentance was accepted, 
and that Gvd had yet mercies in store for me. 

With these reflections I worked my mind up, not 
only to resignation to the wiU of God in the present 
disposition of my circumstances, but even to a sincere 
thankfulness of my condition ; and that I, who was 
yet a living man, ought not to complain, seeing I had 



158 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

not the due punishment of my sins — that I enjoyed so 
many mercies, which I had no reason to have expected 
in that place — that I ought never more to repine at 
my condition, but to rejoice, and to give daily thanks 
for that daily bread, which nothing but a cloud of 
wonders could have brought — that I ought to consider 
I had been fed even by a miracle, even as great as that 
of feeding Elijah by ravens— nay, by a long series of 
miracles ; ''and that I could hardly have named a 
place in the uninhabited part of the world where I 
could have been cast more to my advantage — ^a place 
where, as I had no society, which was my affliction 
on one hahd, so I found no ravenous beasts, no furious 
wolves, or tigers, to ‘threateii my life ; no venomous 
creatures or poisonous, which I might have fed on 
to my hurt ; no savages to murder and devour me. 

In a word, as my life was a life of sorrow one way, 
so it was a life of mercy another ; and I wanted nothing 
to make it a life of comfort, but to be able to make my 
sense of God's goodness to me, and care over me in 
this condition, be my daily desolation ; and after T 
made a just improvement of these things, I went away, 
and was no more sad. 

I had now been here so long, that many things which 
I brought on shore for my help were either quite ^gone 
or very much wasted, and near spent. 

My ink, as I observed, had been gone for som,e time, 
all but a very* little, which I eked out with water a 
little and ‘a little, till it was so pale it scarce left any 
appearance of black upon the paper? as long as it 
lasted, I made use of it to minute down the 'days of 
the month on which any remarkable thing happened 
to me ; and first, by casting up times past, I remember 
that there was a strange"^ occurrence of days in the 
various providences which befell me, and which, if I 
had been superstitiously inclined to observe days as 
fatal or fortunate, I might had had reason to have 
looked upon with a great deal of curiosity. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 159 

First, I had observed, that the same day that I 
broke away from my father and my friends, and ran 
away to Hull, in order to go to sea, the same day after- 
wards I was taken' by the Sallee man-of-war, and made 
a slave. 

The same day of the year that I escaped out of the 
wreck of the ship in Yarmouth Roads, that same day 
of the year afterwards I, made my escape from Sallee 
in the boat. 

The same day of the year I was born on, namely, 
the 20th of September, the same day I had my life 
so miraculously saved twenty-six years after, when I 
was cast on shore in this island ; so that fn^ wicked 
life, and solitary life, both began on a day. 

The next thing to my ink's being wasted, was that 
of my bread, I mean the bisQuit which I brought out 
of the ship. This I had husbanded to the last degree, 
allowing myself but one cake of bread a-day, for above 
a year : and yet I was quite without bread for a year 
before I got any corn of my own ; and great reason 
I had to be thankful that I had any at all, the getting 
it being, as it has been already observed, next to 
miraculous. 

My clothes, too, began to decay mightily : as to 
linen, I had none a good while, except some chequered 
shirts which I found in the chests of the other seamen, 
and vdiich I carefully preserved, because many times 
I could bear no other clothes on but -a shirt ; * and it 
was a very great help to me that I had, anfong all the 
men's clothes of the ship, almost three dozen shirts. 
There Were also several thick watch-coats of the sea- 
men, which were left behind, but they were too hot 
to wear ; and though it ia^true that the weather was 
so violently hot that there was no need of clothes, 
yet I could not go quite naked — ^no, though I had been 
inclined to it, which I was not — ^nor could I abide the 
thoughts of it, though I was all alone. 

One reason why I could not go quite naked was. 



i6o ROBINSON CRUSOE 

I could not bear the heat of the sun so well when quite 
naked, as with some clothes on — nay, the very heat 
frequently blistered my skin ; whereas, with a shirt 
on, the air itself made some motion, and whistling 
under the shirt, was twofold cooler than withmit it : 
no more could I bring m 3 ^elf ever to go out in the 
heat of the sun without a cap or a hat ; the heat of 
the sun beating with such violence as it does in that 
place, would give me the headache presently, by 
darting so directly on my head, without a cap or hat 
on, so that I could not bear it ; whereas if I put on 
my hatj it would presently go away. 

Upon these views I began to consider about putting 
the few rags I had, which I called clothes, into some 
order ; I had worn out all the waistcoats I had, and 
my business was now to try if I could net make 
jackets out of the great watch-coats which I had by 
me, and with such other materials as I had — so I set 
to work a-tailoring, or rather, indeed, a-botching — 
for I made most piteous work of it. However, I made 
shift to make two or three Vaistcoats, which I hoped 
would serve me a great while : as for breeches or 
drawers, I made but very sorry shift indeed till after- 
wards. 

I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the 
creatures that I killed — I mean four-footed ones-r 
and I had hung them up stretched out with sticks in 
the suii ; by which means some of them were so dry 
and hard fhat they were fit for little • but others, it 
seems, were very useful. The first thing I made of 
these was a great cap for my head, with the hair on 
the outside to shoot off the rmn : and this I performed 
so well, that after this I made a suit of clothes wholly 
of those skins — that is to say, a waistcoat and breeches 
open at the knees, and both loose; for they were 
rather wanted to keep me cool, than to keep me warm. 
I must not omit to acknowledge that they were 
wretchedly made ; for if I was a bad carpenter, I was 



ROBINSON CRUSOE x6i 

a worse tailor : however, they were such as I made a 
very good shift with ; and when I was abroad, if it 
happened to rain, the hair of the waistcoat and cap 
being outmost, I ,was kept very dry. 

Afte,r this I spent a deal of time and pains to make 
me an umbreUa • I was, indeed, in great want of one, 
and had a great mind to make one ; I had seen them 
made in the Brazils, where they are very useful in 
the great heats which are there ; and I fe(t the heats 
every jot as great here, and greater, too, being nearer 
the equinox; besides, as I was obliged to be much 
abroad, it was a most useful thing to me, as well for 
the rains as the heats. I took a world of paiqs at it, 
and was a great while b,efore I could make anything 
likely to hold ; nay, after I thought I had hit the way, 
I spoiled two or three before I made- one to my mind ; 
but at last I made one that answered indifferently 
well. The main difficulty I found was to make it to 
let down ; I could make it to spread ; but if it did not 
let down too, and draw in, it would not be portable 
for me any way, but just over my head, whicm would 
not do. However, at last, as I said, I made one to 
answer : I covered it with skins, the hair upwards, 
so that it cast off the rain like a penthouse, and kept 
off the sun so effectually, that I could walk out in the 
hottest of the weather, with greater advantage than 
I. could before in the coolest ; and, when I had no need 
of it, r could close it, and carry it under my arn>. 

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being 
entirely composed by resigning to the will oi God, and 
throwing myself wholly upon the disposal of His provi- 
dence : this made my life better than sociable ; for, 
when I began to regret the want of conversation, I 
would ask myself, whether ‘thus conversing mutually 
with my own thoughts, and, as I hope I may say, with 
even my Maker, by ejaculations and petitions, was 
not better than the utmost enjoyment of human 
society in the world. 



i62 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

I cannot say that, after this, for five years, any extra- 
ordinary thing happened to me ; but I lived on in the 
same course, in the same posture and place, just as 
before. The chief thing I was employed in, besides 
my yearly labour of planting ray barley and rice, and 
curing my raisins, of both which I always kept up just 
enough to have a sufficient stock of the year's provi- 
sions beforehand — I say, besides this yearly labour, 
and my daily labour of going out with my gun, I had 
one labour to make me a canoe, which at last I finished : 
so that by digging a canal to it, six feet wide, and four 
feet deep, I brought it into the creek almost half a 
mile. As for the first, that was so vastly big, as I 
made it without considering beforehand, as I ought 
to do, how I should be able to launch it ; so, never 
being able to bring it to the water or bring the water 
to it, I was obliged to let it lie where it was, as a memo- 
randum to teach me to be wiser next time. Indeed, 
the next time, though I could not get a tree proper 
for it, and was in a place where I could not get the 
water to it, at any less distance than, as I have said, 
of near a h^f mile ; yet, as’T saw it practicable at last, 
I never gave it over ; and, though I was near two years 
about it, yet I never grudged my labour, in hopes of 
having a boat to go off to sea at last. 


CHAPTER X. 

I float Canoe, and am driven out to Sea — Reach the 
shore with difficulty — ^Fall, asleep, am awakened by 
a mysterious Voice. 

However, though my little periagua was finished, 
yet the size of it was not at all answerable to the design 
which I had in view when I made the first — I mean 
of venturing over to the terra firma, where it was above 




R.Ci Pa^e 175 

I dined like a King, attended by my servants. 





ROBINSON CRUSOE 163 . 

forty miles broad ; accordingly, the smallness of the 
boat assisted to put an end to that design, and now I 
thought no more of it. But as I had a boat, my next 
design was to make a tour round tire island ; for, as 
I had been on the other side, in one place, crossing, 
as I have already described it, over the land, so the 
discoveries I made in that journey made me very eager 
to see the other parts of the coast ; and now I had a 
boat, I thought of nothing but sailing roun^ the island. 

For this purpose, and that I might do everything 
with discretion and consideration, I fitted up a little 
mast to my boat, and made a sail to it out of some 
of the pieces of the ship's sails, which l^y in store, 
and of which I had a great sto^p by me. 

Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the boat, 

I found she would sail ver>' well. •Then I made little 
lockers *and boxes at each end of my boat, to put pro- 
visions, necessaries, and ammunition, etc., into, to 
be kept dry, either from rain, or the spray of the sea ; 
and a little long hollow place I cut in the inside of the 
boat, where I could lay^my gun, making a flap to 
hang down over it to keep it dry. 

I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like 
a mast, to stand over my head, and keep the heat 
of the sun off me, like an awning ; and thus I every 
now and then took a little voyage upon the sea, but 
never went far out, nor far from the little creek ; but 
at last, being eager to view the circiimferencp of my 
little kingdom. I re,solved upon my tour, and accord- 
ingly I victufUled my ship for the voyage — putting 
in twq dozen of my loaves (cakes I should rather call 
theml of barley bread, ^an earthen pot full of parched 
rice (a food I ate a great deal of), a little bottom of 
rum, half a goat, and powSer and shot for killing more, 
and two large watch-coats, of those which, as I men- 
tioned before, I had saved out of the seamen's chests ; 
these I took, one to lie upon, and the other to cover me 
in the night. 

R.C. 


F 



i 64 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of 
my reign, or my captivity, which you please, that I 
set out on this voyage, and I found it much longer 
than I expected ; for though the island itself was not 
very large, yet when I came to the east side oif it, I 
found a great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues 
into the sea, some above water, some under it ; and 
beyond this a shoal of sand, lying dry half a league 
more : so that I was obliged to go a great way out to 
sea to double that point. 

When I first discovered them, I was going to give 
over my enterprise, and come back again, not knowing 
how far, it ipight oblige me to go out to sea, and, above 
all, doubting how I shpuld get back again ; so I came 
to an anchor, for I had made me a kind of an anchor 
with a piece of broken grappling which I got out of the 
ship. 

Having secured my boat, I took my gun, and went 
on shore, climbing up a hill, which seemed to overlook 
that point, where I saw the full extent of it, and 
resolved to venture, 

In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, 
I perceived a strong, and indeed a most furious current, 
which ran to the east, and even came close to the point; 
and I took the more notice of it, because I saw there 
might be some danger, that when I came* into it, I 
might be carried out to sea by the strength of it, and 
not be ;able to make the island again. And irideed, 
had I not gotten first upon this hiljl, I believe it would 
have been so ; for there was the same current on the 
other side of the island, only that it set off at a farther 
distance ; and I saw there was a strong eddy under 
the shore — so I had nothing to do but to get out of 
the first current, and I should presently be in an 
eddy. 

I lay here, however, two days ; because the wind 
blowing pretty fresh (at east-south-east, and that being 
just contrary to the said current), made a great breach 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 165 

of the sea upon the point ; so that it was not safe for 
me to keep too close to the shore for the breach, nor 
to go too far off because of the stream. 

The third day* in the morning, the wind having 
abatdd overnight, the sea was calm, and I ventured : 
but 1 am a wacrning-piece again to all rash and ignorant 
pilots ; for no sooner was I come to the point, when I 
was not my boat's length from the shore, but I found 
myself in a great depth* of water and a -current like 
the sluice of a mill. It carried my boat along with it, 
with such a violence that all I could do could not keep 
her so much as on the edge of it ; but I found it hurried 
me farther and farther out from the eddyt which was 
on the left hand. There was n# wind stirring to help 
me, and all that I could do with my paddles signified 
nothing; and now I began to giVe myself over for 
lost ; for, as the current was dn both sides of the island, 
I knew in a few leagues' distance they must join again, 
and then I was irrecoverably gone — nor did I see any 
possibility of avoiding it ; so that I liad no prospect 
before me but of perishing — not by the sea, for that 
was calm enough, but of starving for hunger. I had, 
indeed, found a tortoise on the shore, as big almost as 
I could lift, and had tossed it into the boat ; and«I 
had^a great jar of fresh water, that is to say, one of 
my*eartheh pots; but what was all this to being 
driveji into the vast ocean, where, to be sure, there 
was no shore, no mainland or island* for a thousand 
leagues at least ? • 

And now I 5 aw how easy it was for the providence 
of God to make the most miserable condition that 
mankind could be in worse. Now, I looked back upon 
my desolate solitary island as the most pleasant place 
in the world, and all the haf)piness my heart could wish 
for was to be there again ; I stretched out my hands 
to it witii eager wishes. “ Oh, happy desert 1 ** said 
I, '' I shall never see thee more I Oh, miserable 
creature 1 " said I, whither am I going ? " Then 



i66 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

I reproached myself with my unthankful temper, and 
how 1 had repined at my solitary condition ; and now, 
what would 1 give to be on shore there again ? Thus 
we never see the true state of our condition, till it is 
illustrated to us by its contraries ; nor know bow to 
value what we enjoy, but by the want of it. It is 
scarce possible to imagine the consternation I was 
in, being driven from my beloved island (for so it 
appeared to me now to be) into Jthe wide ocean, almost 
two leagues, and in the utmost despair of ever recover- 
ing it again : however, I worked hard, till indeed my 
strength was almost exhausted, and kept my boat as 
much to the northward, that is, towards the side of 
the current which the teddy lay on, as possibly I could ; 
when about noon, as the sun passed the meridian, 
I thought I felt d little breeze of wind in my face, 
springing up from the south-south-east. This* cheered 
my heart a little, and especially when, in about half 
an hour more, it blew a pretty small gentle gale. By 
this time I was gotten at a frightful distance from the 
island ; and, had the least cloud or hazy weather 
intervened, I had been undone another way too ; for 
.1 had no compass on board, and should never have 
known how to have steered towards the island, if I 
had but once lost sight of it ; but the weather con- 
tinuing clear, I applied myself to get up my mast 
again, and spread my sail, standing away to the north 
as much as possible, to get out of the current. 

Just as J. had set my mast and sail, and the boat 
began to stretch away, I saw, even by the clearness 
of the water, some alteration of the current was near ; 
for where the current was sq strong, the water was 
foul ; but perceiving the ,water clear, I found the 
current abate, and presentiy I found, to the east, at 
about half a mile, a breach of the sea upon some rocks : 
these rocks I found caused the current to part again ; 
and as the main stress of it ran away more southerly, 
leaving the rocks to the north-east, so the other 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 167“ 

returned by the repulse of the rock, and made a strong 
eddy, which ran back again to the north-west with a 
very sharp stream. 

They who kno^ what it is to have a reprieve brought 
to them upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves 
just going to murder them, or who have been in such 
like extremities, may guess what my present surprise 
of joy was, and how gladly I put my boat into the 
stream of this eddy: and the wind also freshening, 
how gladly I spread my sail to it, running cheerfully 
before the wind, and with a strong tide or jsddy under 
foot. 

This eddy carried me about a league •on* my way 
back again directly towards ^he island, but about 
two leagues more towards the northward than the 
current lay, which carried me aw'ay at first ; so that 
w'hen I came near the island, I found myself open to 
the northern shore of it, that is to say, the other end 
of the island, opposite to that which I went out from. 

When I had made something more than a league 
of way, by the help of this heavy current or eddy, I 
found it was spent, and served me no farther. How- 
ever, I found that being between the two great currents, 
namely, that on the south side which had carried me 
aw^y, and that on the north, which lay about two 
leagues on the other side — I say. between these two. 
in the west of the island, I found the watei* at least still, 
and running no way; and having •still a breeze of 
wind fair for me, *1 kept on steering directly for the 
island, though not making such fresh way as I did 
before. 

After four o’clock in* the evening, being then within 
about a league of the island, I found the point of the 
rocks which occasioned this distance stretching out, 
as is described before, to the southward, and, casting 
off the current more southwardly, had, of course, 
made another eddy to the north ; and this I found very 
strong, but not directly setting the way my course 



'i68 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

lay, which was due west, but almost full north. How- 
ever, having a fresh gale, I stretched across this eddy, 
slanting north-west, and, in about an hour, came with- 
in about a mile of the shore, where/ it being smooth 
water, I soon got to land. ' * 

When I was on shore, I fell on my kn£es, and gave 
God thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside 
all thoughts of my deliverance by my boat ; and, 
refreshing myself with such things as I had, I brought 
my boat close to the shore, in a little cove that I had 
espied under some trees, and laid me down to sleep, 
being quite spent with the labour and fatigue of the 
voyage. • 

I was now at a grcit loss Which way to get home 
with my boat ; I had run so much hazard, and knew 
too much the cause', to think of attempting it. by the 
way I went out ; and what might be at the other side 
(I mean the west side), I knew not, lior had I any 
mind to run any more ventures ; so I only resolved 
in the morning to make my way westward along the 
shore, and to see if there was* no creek where I might 
lay up my frigate in safety, so as to have her again if 
I wanted her. In about three miles, or thereabouts, 
coasting the shore, I came to a very good inlet, or 
bay, about a mile over, which narrowed till it Cc^me 
to a very little rivulet, or brook, where I fodnd a con- 
venient harbour for my boat, and where she lay, as if‘ 
she had been in a little dock made on purpose for her ; 
here I put in, and having stowed my boat very safe, 
I went on shore to look about me, and see where I 
was, • 

I soon found I had but a little passed by the place 
where I had been before when I travelled on foot to 
that shore ; so, taking nothfng out of my boat but my 
gun and my umbrella, for it was exceedingly hot, I 
began my march. The way was comfortable enough, 
after such a voyage as I had been upon, and I reached 
my old bower in the evening, where I found everything 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 169^ 

standing as I left it ; for I always kept it in good order, 
being, as I said before, my country-house. 

I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade 
to re^t my limbs, 'for I^was very weary, and fell asleep; 
but judge if you can, you that read my story, what a 
surprise I must be in, when I was awaked out of my 
sleep by a voice calling me by my name several times, 

“ Robin, Robin, Robin .Crusoe, poor Robin Crusoe I 
Where are you, Robin Crusoe ? Wherfe are you ? 
Where have you been ? " 

I was dead asleep at first, being fatigued with rowing, 
or paddling, as it is called, the first part of the day, and 
walking the latter part, that I did not awak^thdroughly, 
and dozing between sleeping and waking, thought I 
dreamed that somebody spoke to n;e ; but as the voice 
continued to repeat “ Robin. Crusoe, Robin Crusoe I " 
at last I began to awake more perfectly, and was at 
first dreadfully frightened, and started up in the 
utmost consternation : but no sooner were my eyes 
open, but I saw my Poll sitting on the top of the hedge, 
and immediately knew tfhat this was he that spoke 
to me ; for just in such bemoaning language I had 
used to talk to him, and teach him ; and he had 
learned it so perfectly, that he would sit upon ifty 
finger and Jay his bill close to my face, and cry, ** Poor 
Robin Crusoe, where are you ? Where have you been ? 
Ho\\»came you here ? " and such things as I taught him. 

However, even though I knew it* was the parrot, 
and that indeed it could be nobody else, if was a good 
while before 1 could compose myself. First, I was 
amaze'd how the creature got thither, and then how 
he should just keep ^out the place, and nowhere 
else ; but as I was well ^j^tisfied it could be nobody 
but honest Poll, I got it over ; and, holding out my 
hand, and calling him by his name, “ Poll I " the 
sociable creature came to me, and sat upon my thumb, 
as he used to do, and continued talking to me — Poor 
Robin Crusoe 1 and “ How did I come here ? ” and 



-170 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

" Where had I been ? " just as if he had been over- 
joyed to see me again ; and so I carried him home along 
with me. 

I had now had enough of ramblirig to sea for some 
time, and had enough to do for many days to sit still 
and reflect upon the danger I had been* in. I would 
have been very glad to have had my boat again on 
my side of the island, but I knew not how it was prac- 
ticable to get it about : as to the 'east side of the island, 
which I had gone round, I knew well enough there 
was no venturing that way ; my very heart would 
shrink, and my very blood run chill, but to think of it ; 
and as t’o the other side of the island, I did not know 
how it might be there', but supposing the current ran 
with the same force against the shore at the east, 
as it passed by it on the other, 1 might run the same 
risk of being driven down the stream, and carried by 
the island, as I had been before of being carried away 
from it. So with these thoughts I contented myself 
to be without any boat, though it had been the product 
of so many months' labour to make it, and of so many 
more to get it into the sea. 

In this government of my temper, I remained near 
aoyear — ^lived a very sedate, retired life, as you may 
well suppose; and my thoughts being very mud^ 
composed as to my condition, and fully comforted in 
resigning myself to the dispositions of Providence, 
I thou^t I lived really very happily in all things, 
except that of society. ' 

I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic 
exercises which my necessities put me upon ajJpljdng 
myself to ; and I believe could, upon occasion, have 
made a very good carpenter, especially considering 
how few tools I had. 

Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection 
in my earthenware, and contrived well enough to make 
them with a wheel, which I found infinitely easier 
and better ; because I made things round and 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 171- 

shapeable, which before were filthy thin^ indeed to 
look on. But I think I never was more vain of my own 
performance, or more joyful for anything I found out, 
than for my being able to make a tobacco-pipe ; and 
thou^ it was a very ligly clumsy thing when it was 
done, and only burnt red like other earthenware, yet 
as it was hard and firm, and would draw the smoke, 

I was exceedingly comforted with it — for I had been 
always used to smoke, and there were pipes in the 
ship, but I forgot them at first, not knowing there 
was tobacco in the island ; and afterwards, when I 
searched the ship again, I could not come at any pipes 
at all. • • 

In my wickerware I also improved much, and made 
abundance of necessary baskets, as well as my inven- 
tion showed me, though not viry handsome, yet 
convenient for my laying things up in, or fetching 
things home in. For example, if I killed a goat abroad, 

I could hang it up in a tree, flay it, and dress it, and cut 
it in pieces, and bring it home in a basket : and the 
like by a turtle, 1 could cut it up, take out the eggs, 
and a piece or two of the flesh, which was enough for 
me, and bring them home in a basket, and leave the 
rest behind me. Also large deep baskets were lay 
receivers for my corn, which I always rubbed out as 
soon as it* was dry, and cured, and kept it in great 
baskets instead of a granary. 

I began now to perceive my powder, abated consider- 
ably ; and this was a want which it was impossible 
for me to sujlply, and I began seriously to consider 
what I must do when I should have no more powder 
—■that is to say, how I*should do to kill any ^oats. I 
had, as I observed, in the.third year of my being here, 
kept a young kid, and bred her tame ; I was in hopes 
of getting a he-kid, but I could not by any means 
bring it to pass, till my kid grew an old goat ; and I 
could never find in my heart to kill her, till she died 
at last of mere age. 



• 172 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

But being now in the deventh year of my residence, 
and, as I have said, my ammunition growing low, I 
set m375elf to study some art to trap and snare the 
goats, to see whether I could not catch some of them 
dive ; and, particularly, I wished to possess a she- 
goat great with young. 

To this purpose I made snares to hamper them, 
and believe they were more than once taken in them ; 
but my tactile was not good; foj* I had no wire, and 
always found them broken, and my bait devoured. 

At length, I resolved to try a pitfall ; so I dug several 
large pits in the earth, in places where I had observed 
the goats used to feed, and over these pits I placed 
hurdles, of my own making too, with a great weight 
upon them, and several times I put ears of barley, and 
dry rice, without setting the trap ; and I cduld easily 
perceive that the goats had gone in, and eaten up the 
corn, for I could see the marks of their' feet ; at length, 
I set three traps in one night, and going the next 
morning. I found them all standing, and yet the bait 
eaten and gone- This was .very discouraging ; how- 
ever, I altered my trap ; and, not to trouble you with 
particulars, going one morning to see my traps, I 
iqjund in one of them a large old he-goat, and in 
one of the other, three kids, a male, and two 
females. 

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him ; 
he was so fierce,,. I durst not go into the pit to liim— 
that is to sfiy, to go about to bring him away alive, 
which was what I wanted, I could have killed him, 
but that was not my business, nor would it answer 
my end ; so I even let him out, and he ran away as 
if he had been frightened out of his wits ; but 1 did 
not then know what I aftei»,vards learned, that hunger 
would tame a lion : if I had let him stay there three 
or four days without food, and then have carried him 
some water to drink, and then a little corn, he would 
have been as tame as one of the kids ; for they are 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


175 

miehty sagacious and tractable creatures, where they 
are well used. 

However, for the present I let him go, knowing no 
better at that time : then 1 went to the three kids ; 
and,«taking them one -by one, I tied them with strings 
together, and with considerable difficulty brought them 
all home. 

It was a good while before they would feed ; but 
throwing them some stveet com, it teijipted them, 
and they began to be tame : and now I found that if 
I expected to supply myself with goat's flesh, when I 
had no powder or shot left, breeding up some tame 
was my only way, when, perhaps, I mig^t have them 
about my house like a flock of ^heep. 

But then it presently occurred to me that I must 
keep the tame from the wild, or elsje they would always 
run wild when they grew up ; and the only way for 
this was to have some enclosed piece of ground, well 
fenced, either with hedge or pale, to keep them in so 
effectually that those within might not break out, 
or those without break ijj. 

This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands ; 
yet as I saw there was an absolute necessity for doing 
it, my first piece of work was to find out a proper 
piece of ground, namely, where there was likely to be 
herbage for them to eat, water for them to drink, and 
cover to keep them from the sun. 

itiose who understand such enclosures vflll think 
I had very little contrivance when I pitched upon a 
place very pioper for all these (being a plain open 
piece* of meadowland, or savanna, as our people call 
it in the western colcmies), which had two or three 
little drills of fresh watej in it : and at one end was 
very woody — I say, they will smile at my forecast, 
when I shil tell them I began by enclosing of this 
piece of ground in such a manner that my hedge or 
pale must have been at least two miles about : nor 
was the madness of it so great as to the compass ; 



.174 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

for if it was ten miles about, I was like to have time 
enough to do it in ; but I did not consider, that my 
goats would be as wild in so much compass as if they 
had had the whole island ; and I should have so much 
room to chase them in that I should never catch them. 

My hedge was begun and carried on, 1 believe, 
about fifty yards when this thought occurred to me ; so 
I presently stopped short, and for the first beginning 
I resolved to, enclose a piece of about one hundred and 
fifty yards in length, and a hundred yards in breadth, 
which, as it would maintain as many as I should have 
in any reasonable time, so, as my flock increased, I 
could add njore groimd to my enclosure. 

This was acting witji some .^prudence, and I went 
to work with courage. I was about three months 
hedging in the first* piece ; and till I had done it, I 
tethered the three kids in*the best part of it, arid used 
them to feed as near me as possible, to make them 
familiar ; and very often I would go and carry them 
some ears of barley, or a handful of rice, and feed them 
out of my hand; so that, after my enclosure was 
finished, and I let them loose, they would follow me 
up and down, bleating after me for a handful of corn. 

^is answered my end, and in about a year and a 
half 1 had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all ; 
and in two years more I had three-and-forty, besides 
several that I took and killed for my food ; and after 
that I enclosed five several pieces of ground to ?eed 
them in, with little pens to drive them into, to take 
them as I wanted them, and gates ou1> of one piece 
of ground into another. 

But this was not all ; for npw I not only had got 
goat’s flesh to feed on when^I pleased, but milk too, 
a thing which indeed in my beginning I did not so 
much as think of, and which, when it came into my 
thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise ; for now 
1 set up my dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two 
of milk in a day. And as nature, who gives supplies 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


175. 

of food to every creature, dictates even naturally how 
to make use of it, so I, that never milked a cow, much 
less a goat, or saw butter or cheese made, very readily 
and handily, though after a great many essays and 
miscarriages, made me both butter and cheese, at 
last, and never wanted it afterwards. 

How mercifully can our great Creator treat His 
creatures, even in those conditions in which they seem 
to be overwhelmed in <}est*ruction ! How can He sweeten 
the bitterest providences, and give us cause to praise 
Him for dungeons and prisons ! What a table was here 
spread for me, in a wilderness where I saw nothing 
at first but to perish for hunger I ^ » 

It would have made ^ stoic ynile, to have seen me 
and my little family sit down to dinner : there was 
my majesty, the prince and lord cf the whole island ; 

I had tne lives of ^1 my subjects at absolute command; 

I could hang, draw, give life and liberty, and take it 
away, and no rebels among all my subjects. 

Then to see how like a king I dined too, all alone, 
attended by my servants^ Poll, as if he had been my 
favourite, was the only person permitted to talk to 
me ; my dog, which was now grown very old and crazy, 
and fotmd no species to multiply his kind upon, sat 
always at my right hand ; and two cats, one on one 
sidfi of tho table, and one on the other, expecting now 
and^then a bit from my hand, as a mark of special 
favour. ^ , 

But these were pot the two cats which I brought 
on shore at first ; for they were both of* them dead, 
and had been interred near my habitation with my 
own hands ; but one pi them having multiplied by 
I know not what kind of creature, these were two 
which I preserved tame,* •whereas the rest ran wild 
into the woods, and became, indeed, troublesome to 
me at last ; for they would often come into my house, 
and plunder me too, till at last I was obliged to shoot 
them, and did kill a great many : at length they left 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 

me. With this attendance, and in this plentiful manner 
I lived ; neither could I be said to want anything but 
society, and of that, in some time after this, I was like 
to have too much. 


CHAPTER XI 

Description of my Dwelling and Enclosures — Dreadful 
alarm on seeing Footprints on the Shore — ^Take every 
precaution. 

I WAS somewhat impatient, as .1 had observed, to have 
the use of my boat, though very loath to run any more 
hazard ; and therefore sometimes I sat contriving 
ways to get her about the island, and at otheir times 
I sat myself down contented enough without her. 
But I had a strange uneasiness in my mind to go down 
to the point of the island, where, as I have said in my 
last ramble, I went up the hill to see how the shore 
lay, and how the ciurent set^ that I might see what I 
had to do. This inclination increased upon me every 
dav, and at length I resolved to travel thither by land, 
aim following the edge of the shore, I did so ; but had 
any one in England been to meet such a man as I was, 
it must either have frightened him, or raised a great 
deal of laughter ; and as I frequently stood still to 
look at myself, 1 could not but smile at the notion 
of my travelling through Yorkshire )vith such an 
equipage, and in such a dress. Be pleased to i;ake a 
sketch of my figure, as follows : — 

1 had a great high shapeless cap, made of goat’s 
skin, with a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep 
the sun from me as to shoot the rain ofi from running 
into my neck ; nothing being so hurtful in these 
climates as the rain upon the flesh under the clothes. 

1 had a short jacket of goat’s skin, the skirts coming 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


^ 77 - 

down to about the middle of my thighs ; and a pair 
of open-kneed breeches of the same ; the breeches 
were made of the skin of an old he-goat, whose hair 
hung down such, a length on either side, that, like 
pantadoons, it reached to the middle of my legs. 
Stockings and shoes I had none ; but I had made me 
a pair of something, I scarce knew what to call them, 
like buskins, to flap over my legs, and lace on either 
side like spatterdashe§» bht of a most barbarous shape, 
as indeed were all the rest of my clothes. ^ 

I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I 
drew together with two thongs of the same, instead 
of buckles ; and in a kind of a frog on either side of 
this, instead of a sword. and dagger, hung a little saw 
and a hatchet — one on one side, one on the other ; 

I had another belt not so broad, and fastened in the 
same manner, which hung over my shoulder ; and at 
the end of it, under my left arm hung two pouches, 
both made of goat's skin too, in one of which hung my 
powder, in the other my shot ; at my back I carried 
my basket, on my shoulder my gun; and over my head 
a great clumsy ugly goat's skin umbrella, but which, 
after all, was the most necessary thing I had about 
me, next to my gun. As for my face, the colour ^f 
it was really not so mulatto-like as one might expect 
froih a maai not at all careful of it, and living within 
nine^or ten degrees of the equinox. My beard I had 
once* suffered to grow till it was about a quarter of a 
yard long; but as I had both scissors, and razors 
sufficient, I had cut it pretty short, except what grew 
on my upper lip, which I had trimmed into a large 
pair of Mahometan whiskers, such as I had seen worn 
by some Turks whom I saw at Sallee ; for the Moors 
did not wear such, though the Turks did : of these 
mustachios, or whiskers, I will not say they were long 
enough to hang my hat upon them ; but they were of 
length and shape monstrous enough, and such as in 
England would have passed for frightful. 



.178 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

But all this is by the bye ; for as to my figure, I had 
so few to observe, that it was of no manner of con- 
sequence — so I say no more to that part. In this kind 
of figure I went my new journey, and was out five 
or six days. I travelled first along the sea-shore dilectly 
to the place where 1 first brought my boat to an anchor, 
to get upon the rocks ; and, having no boat now to 
take care of, I went over the land a nearer way, to 
the same height that 1 was upon .before ; when looking 
forward to the point of the rock which lay out, and 
whicli I was to double with my boat, as I said above, 
I was surprised to see the sea all smooth and quiet ; 
no rippling,, no motion, no current, any more than in 
any other places. 

I was at a strange loss to understand this, and 
resolved to spend *some time in the observing of it, 
to see if nothing from the sets of the tide had occasioned 
it : but I was presently convinced how it was ; namely, 
that the tide of ebb setting from the west, and joining 
with the current of waters from some great river on 
the shore, must be the occasion of this cuixent, and 
accordingly as the wind blew more forcibly from the 
west, or from the north, this current came near, or 
went farther from the shore ; for, waiting thereabouts 
till evening, I went up to tiie rock again, and then, 
the tide of ebb being made, I plainlv saw the current 
again as before, only that it ran farther off, beings, near 
half a league frpm the shore ; whereas, in my "case, 
it set close upon the shore, and hurried me in my canoe 
along with it, which at another time it v.’Otild not have 
done. 

This observation convinced me, that I had nothing 
to do but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the 
tide, and I might very easily bring my boat about the 
island again : but when I began to think of putting 
it into practice I had such a terror upon my spirits 
at the remembrance of the danger I had been in, that 
I could not think of it again with any patience ; but. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


179- 

on the contrary, I took up another resolution, which 
was more safe, though more laborious, and this was, 
that I would build, or rather make, me another peria- 
gua, or canoe ; aaid so have one for one side of the 
island, and one for the other. 

You are to* understand, that now 1 had, as I may 
call it, two plantations in the island, one my little 
fortification, or tent, with the wall about it under the 
rock, with the cave beliiiid me, which by, this time I 
had enlarged into several apartments or caves, one 
within another. One of these, which was the driest 
and largest, and had a door out beyond my wall or 
fortification — that is to say, beyond whve my wall 
joined to the rock — ^was *all filled up with large earthen 
pots, of which I have given an account, and with 
fourteep or fifteen great baskets, * which would hold 
five or six bushels each, whete I laid up my stores of 
provision, especially my com, some in the ear, cut off 
short from the straw, and the other rubbed out with 
my hands. 

As for my wall, made is before with long stakes or 
piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were by this 
time grown so big, and spread so very much, that 
there was not the least appearance, to any one's view, 
of any habitation behind them. 

Near thfe dwelling of mine, but a little farther within 
the land, and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces 
of corn ground, which I kept dub? cultivated and 
sowed, and which •duly yielded me" their, harvest in 
its season ; and whenever I had occasion for more 
corn, I had more land adjoining, as fit as that. 

Besides this, I had my country seat, and I had now 
a tolerable plantation thQre also ; for first, I had my 
little bower, as I called it, which I kept in repair — 
that 4S to say, I kept the hedge which circled it in 
constantly fitted up to its usual height ; the ladder 
standing always in the inside ; I kept the trees, which 
at first were no more than stakes, but were now grown 



i8o ROBINSON CRUSOE 

very firm and tall — T kept them always so cut that 
they might spread, and grow thick and wild, and make 
the more agreeable shade, which they did effectually 
to my mind. In the middle of this I had my tent always 
standing, being a piece of sail, spread over poles set 
up for that purpose, and which never wanted any 
repair or renewing ; and under this I had made me 
a squab, or couch, with the skins of the creatures I 
had killed, ^d with other soft things, and a blanket 
laid on them, such as belonged to our sea bedding, 
which I had saved, and a great watch-coat to cover 
me ; and here, whenever I had occasion to be absent 
from my cl^i.ef seat, I took up my country habitation. 

Adjoining to this, I had my .enclosures for my cattle, 
that is to say, my goats : and as I had taken an in- 
conceivable deal oi pains to fence and enclose this 
ground, I was so uneasy 'to see it kept entire, lest the 
goats should break through, that I never left off, till, 
with infinite labour, I had stuck the outside of the 
hedge so full of small stakes, and so near to one another 
that it was rather a pale th^ai a hedge, and there was 
scarce room to put a hand through between them, 
which afterwards, when those stakes grew, as they all 
djd in the next rainy season, made the enclosure 
strong like a wall — indeed, stronger than any wall. 

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that 
I spared no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared 
necessary for n^y comfortable support; for 1 con- 
sidered the ^keeping up a breed of tame creatures thus 
at my hand, would be a living magazine' of flesh, milk, 
butter, and cheese for me, as long as I lived An the 
place, if it were to be forty years ; and that keeping 
them in my reach depended entirely upon my per- 
fecting my enclosures to such a degree that I might 
be sure of keeping them together; which by this 
method, indeed, I so effectually secured, that, when 
these little stakes began to grow, I had planted them 
so very thick 1 was forced to piill some of them up again. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE XW, 

In this place also I had my grapes growing, which 
I principally depended on for my winter store of raisins, 
and which I never failed to preserve very carefully, as 
the best and most agreeable dainty of my whole ^et ; 
and, indeed, they were pot agreeable only, but physical, 
wholesome, nourishing, and refreshing to the last 
degree. 

As this was also about half-way between my other 
habitation and the place where I had laid up the boat, 

I generally stayed arid lay here on my way thither ; 
for I used frequently to visit my boat, and I kept all 
things about or belonging to her in very good order. 
Sometimes I went out in her to divert myself ; but 
no more hazardous voyages wpuld I go,* nor scarce 
ever above a stone's cast or two from the shore, I was 
so apprehensive of being hurried out of my knowledge 
again by the currents, or winds, or any other accident. 
But now I come to a new scene of my life* 

It happened one day about noon, going towards 
my boat, I was exceedingly surprised with the print 
of a man’s naked foot on the shore, which was very 
plain to be seen in the sarid : I stood like one thunder- 
struck, or as if I had seen an apparition ; I listened, 

I looked round me — I could hear nothing, nor see 
anything : I went up to a rising ground to look farther; 

I wient up»the shore and down the shore, but it was 
all one, I could see no other impression but that one ; 

I weht to it again to see if there were any mqre, and 
to observe if it mig^Jlt not be my fancy ; but there was 
no room for that, for there was exactly the very print 
of a fqot, toes, heel, and every part of a foot ; how it 
came thither I knew not. nor could in the least imagine. 
But after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a man 
perfectly confused, and oht of m3^elf, I came home 
to my fortification, not feeling, as we say, the ground 
I went on, but terrified to the last degree, looking 
behind me at every two or three steps, mistaking every 
bush and tree, and fancying every stump at a (Stance 



j 82 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

to be a man ; nor is it possible to describe how many 
various shapes an affrighted imagination represented 
things to me in — ^how many wild ideas were formed 
every moment in my fancy — and what strange un- 
accountable whimsies came into my thoughts by the 
way. 

When I came to my castle, for so I think I called it 
ever after this. I fled into it like one pursued ; whether 
I went over. by the ladder, at first contrived, or in at 
the hole in the rock, whidi I called a door, I cannot 
remember; for never frighted hare fled to cover, or 
fox to earth, with more terror of mind than I to this 
retreat. . 

I had no sleep thati night >the farther I was from 
the occasion of my fright, the greater my apprehensions 
were ; which is soinething contrary to the nature of 
such things, and especially to the usual practice of all 
creatures in fear. But I was so embarrassed with my 
own frightful ideas of the thing, that I formed nothing 
but dismcil imaginations to myself, even though I was 
now a great way off it. Sometimes I fancied it must 
be the devil ; and reason joined in with me upon this 
supposition. For how should any other thing in human 
slj.ape come into the place ? Where was the vessel 
that brought them ? What marks were there of any 
other footsteps ? And how was it possible that a than 
should come there ? But then to think that Satan 
should vtake burpan shape upon him in such a place, 
where ther^ could be no manner of occasion for it but 
to leave the print of his foot behind iiim, and that 
even for no purpose too (for he could not be «sure I 
should see it), this was an amazement the other way : 
I considered that the devil might have found out 
abundance of other ways to have terrified me, than 
this of the single print of a foot ; that, as I lived quite 
on the other side of the island, he should never have 
been so simple as to leave a mark in a place where it 
was ten thousand to one whether I should ever see 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


183 

it or not, and in the sand too, which the first surge of 
the sea upon a high wind would have defaced entirely. 
All this seemed inconsistent with the thing itself, and 
with all notions we usually entertain of the subtlety 
of the devil. • 

Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue 
me out of all apprehensions of its being the devil ; 
and I presently concluded that it must be some more 
dangerous creature — ^jjamely, that it mu^t be some 
of the savages of the mainland over against me, who 
had wandered out to sea in their canoes, and, either 
driven by the currents, or by contrary winds, had 
made the island, and had been on shore* but were 
gone away again to sea/ being ^s loath, perhaps, to 
have stayed in this desolate island, as I would have 
been to^have had them. • 

While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, 
I was very thankful in my thought, that I was so 
happy as not to be thereabouts, at that time, or that 
they did not see my boat, by which they would have 
concluded that some inhabitants had been in the place, 
and perhaps have searched farther for me. Then 
terrible thoughts racked my imagination, about their 
having found my boat, and that there were peoplp 
here ; and that if so, I should certainly have them 
comfe again'in greater numbers, and devour me : that 
if it should happen so that they should not find me, 
yet tfiey would find my enclosure, destroy all my corn, 
carry away all my flock of tame goats, aivi I should 
perish at last fjr mere want. 

Thus my fear banished all my religious hope ; all 
that former confidence in,God, which was founded upon 
such wonderful experience as I had had of His good- 
ness, now vanished ; as if He that had fed me by a 
miracle hitherto, could not preserve by His power the 
provision which He had made for me by His goodness. 
I reproached myself with my laziness, that I would not 
sow any more corn one year than would just serve 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


» 184 

me till the next season, as if no accident could inter- 
vene to prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon 
the ground. And this I tnought so just a reproof, that 
I resolved for the future to have two or three years* 
com beforehand, so that, whatever might come, I 
might not perish for want of bread. 

How strange a chequer-work of Providence is the 
life of man 1 And by what secret differing springs are 
the affections hurried about, as differing circumstances 
present 1 To-day we love what to-morrow we hate — 
to-day we seek what to-morrow we shun — to-day v/e 
desire what to-morrow we fear, nay, even tremble at 
the appreh.-^nsions of. This was exemplified in me at 
this time in the most, lively ^manner imaginable ; for 
I, whose only affliction was, that I seemed banished 
from human society, that I was alone, circumscribed 
by the boundless ocean, cut off from mankind, and 
condemned to what I called a silent life ; that I was 
as one whom Heaven thought not worthy to be num- 
bered among the living, or to appear among the rest 
of his creatures ; that to have seen one of my own 
species would have seemed to me a raising me from 
death to life, and the greatest blessing that Heaven 
itself, next to the supreme blessing of salvation, 
could bestow — I say, that I should now tremble at 
the very apprehensions of seeing a man, and* was 
ready to sink into the ground at but the shadow, or 
ailent appearance, of a man’s having set his foot on 
the island 

Such is the xmeven state of human life', and it afforded 
me a great many curious speculations aftorwards, 
when 1 had little recovered my first surprise : I con- 
sidered that this was the station of life the infinitely 
wise and good providence* of God had determined for 
me ; that as I could not foresee what the ends of divine 
wisdom might be in all this, so I was not to dispute 
His sovereignty, who, as I was His creature, had an 
undoubted right by creation to govern and dispose 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 185^ 

of me absolutely as He thought fit ; and who, as I was 
a creature who had offended Him, had likewise a 
judicial right to condemn me to what punishment He 
thought fit ; and. that it was my part to submit to 
bear His indignation, because I had sinned against Him. 

I then reflected, that God, who wal not only righteous 
but omnipotent, as He had thought fit thus to punish 
and afflict me, so He was able to deliver me ; that if 
He did not think fit to do it it was my unquestioned 
duty to resign myself absolutely and entirely to His 
Avill ; and, on the other hand, it was my duty also 
to hope in Him, pray to Him, and quietly to attend the 
dictates and directions of His daily provjdence. 

These thoughts took .me up# many hours, days — 
nay, I may say, weeks and months ; and one particular 
effect of my cogitations on this occsssion I cannot omit; 
namely! one morning early, lying in my bed, and filled 
with thoughts about my danger from the appearance 
of savages, I found it discomposed me very much ; 
upon which these words of the Scripture came into 
my thoughts, “ Call upoq me in the day of trouble, 
and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me.” 

Upon this, rising cheerfully out of my bed, my 
heart was not only comforted, but I was guided aijd 
encouraged to pray earnestly to God for deliverance. 
WhSn I had done praying, I took up my Bible, and 
openmg it to read, the first words that presented to 
me were, ” Wait on the Ijovd, and bp of good cheer, 
and he shall stren^hen thy heart : vait, I say, on 
the Lord.” is impossible to express the comfort 
this gave me ; and in return, I thankfully laid down 
the book, and was no, more sad, at least on that 
occasion. 

In the midst of these cogitations, apprehensions, 
and reflections, it came into my thoughts one day that 
all this might be a mere chimera of my own, that this 
foot might be the print of my own foot, when I came 
on shore from my boat. . This cheered me up a little 



'i86 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

too, and I began to persuade myself it was all a delusion 
— that it was nothing else but my own foot ; and 
why might I not come that way from my boat, as well 
as I was going that way to the boat. Again, I con- 
sidered also, that I could by n6 means tell for certain 
where I had trod, and where I had not ; and that 
if at last this was only the print of my own foot, I had 
played the part of those fools who strive to make 
stories of sp^ictres and apparitions, and then are them- 
selves frighted at them more than anybody else. 

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroaid 
again — for I had not stirred out of my castle for 
three days and nights, so that I began to starve for 

P rovision ; for I had* little or nothing within doors, 
ut some barley-cakes and water. Then I knew that 
my goats wanted "to be milked too, which usually 
was my evening diversion — and the poor creatures 
were in great pain and inconvenience for want of it ; 
and, indeed, it almost spoiled some of them, and 
almost dried up their milk. 

Heartening myself, thereffore, with the belief that 
this was nothing but the print of one of my own feet 
(and so I might be truly said to start at my own 
shadow), I began to go abroad again, and went to my 
country-house to milk my flock : but to see with what 
fear I went forward, how often I looked behind me, 
how I was ready, every now and then, to lay down my 
basket," and nnv. for my life, it would have made any 
one have thought I was haunted with an evil con- 
science, or that I had been lately most tfcrribly frighted; 
and so indeed I had. 

However, as I went down 'thus two or three days, 
and having seen nothing, I began to be a little bolder, 
and to think there was reahy nothing in it but my own 
imagination : but I could not persuade myself fully 
of this, till I should go down to the shore again and see 
this print of a foot, and measure it by my own, and 
see if there was any similitude or fitness, that I might 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 187 

be assured it was my own foot. But when I came to 
the place first, it appeared evidently to me, that when 
I laid up my boat, I could not possibly be ashore 
anywjiere thereabouts. Secondly, when I came to 
measure the mark with’ my own foot, I found my foot 
not so large by a great deal. Both these things filled 
my head with new imaginations, and gave me the 
vapours again to the highest degree ; so that I shook 
with cold like one in in ague, and I went 4 iome again, 
f^ed with the belief that some man or men had been 
bn shore there ; or, in short, that the island was 
inhabited, and I might be surprised before I was 
aware; and what course to take for m^ security I 
knew not. * * 

Oh, what ridiculous resolutions men take when 
possessed with fear 1 It deprives them of the use of 
those means which reason offers for their relief. The 
first thing I proposed to myself was, to throw down 
my enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle wild into 
the woods, that the enemy might not find them, and 
then frequent the island In prospect of the same, or 
the like booty ; then to the simple thing of digging 
up my two corn fields, that they might not find such 
a grain there, and stiU be prompted to frequent tile 
island ; th^en to demolish my bower and tent, that 
they might not see any vestiges of my habitation, 
and be prompted to look farther, in order to out 
the persons inhabiting. * 

These were the subjects of the first night's cogitation 
after I was come home again, while the apprehensions 
which had so overrun my mind were fresh upon me, 
and my head was full bf vapours, as above. Thus, 
fear of danger is ten thousand times more terrifying 
than danger itself, when apparent to the eyes ; and 
we find the burden of anxiety greater by much than 
the evil which we are anxious about : but, which was 
worse than all this, I had not that relief in this trouble, 
from the resignation I used to practise, that I hoped 



i88 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 

to have. I looked* I thought, like Saul, who com- 
plained, not only that the Philistines were upon him, 
but that God had forsaken him ; for I did not now 
take due ways to compose my mind', by crying tp God 
in my distress, and resting upon His providence, as I 
had done before, for my defence and deliverance ; 
which, if I had done, I had at least been more cheer- 
fully supported under this new surprise, and perhaps 
carried through it with more fesolution. 

This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking ^11 
night ; but in the morning I fell asleep, and having, 
by the .amusement of my mind, been, as it were, tired 
and my spirits exhausted, slept very soundly, and 
awaked much better composed than I had ever been 
before. And now I began to think sedately ; and, 
upon the utmost debate with myself, I concluded, 
that this island which was so exceeding pleasant, 
fruitful, and no farther from the mainland than as I 
had seen was not so entirely abandoned as I might 
imagine ; that although there were no stated inhabi- 
tants who lived on the s^ot, yet that there might 
sometimes come boats off from the shore, who, either 
wth design, or perhaps never but when they were 
driven by cross winds, might come to this place : 
that I had lived here fifteen years now, ajid had not 
met with the least shadow or figure of any people 
before and that, if at any time they should be driven 
here, it was probable they went away again as soon 
as ever they could, seeing they had ngver thought fit 
to fix there upon any occasion, to this time : that the 
most 1 could suggest any danger from, was from any 
such casual accidental landing of straggling people 
from the main, who, as it wjss likely, if they were driven 
hither, were here against their wills : so they made 
no stay here, but went off again with all possible 
speed, seldom staying one night on shore, lest they 
should not have the help of the tides and daylight 
back again : and that therefore I had nothing to do 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 189 

but to consider of some safe retreat, in case I should 
see any savages land upon the spot. 

Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my 
cave so large as to* bring a door through again, which 
door, as I said, came out* beyond where my fortification 
joined to the fock. Upon maturely considering this, 
therefore, I resolved to draw me a second fortification 
in the manner of a semicircle, at a distance from my 
wall, just where I had planted a double row of trees 
about twelve years before, of which I made mention ; 
Xlffese trees having been planted so thick before, there 
wanted but a few piles to be driven between them, 
that they should be thicker and stronger, ahd my 
wall would soon be finished. ^ 

So that I now had a double wall, and my outer wall 
was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and 
everything I could think of, to'mkke it strong : having 
in it seven little holes, about as big as I might put my 
arm out at. In the inside of this I thickened my wall 
to about ten feet thick, continually bringing earth 
out of my cave, and laying it at the foot of the wall, 
and walking upon it ; and through the seven holes I 
contrived to plant the muskets, of which I took notice 
that I got seven on shore out of the ship : these, I say* 
I planted like my cannon, and fitted them into frames 
that held them like a carriage, that so I could fire all 
the seven guns in two minutes' time. This wall I was 
many a weary month in finishing, and yet * never 
thought m5^elf safe till it was done. 

When this wafe done, I stuck all the ground without 
my wait, for a great way every way, as full with stakes 
or sticks of the ozier-like'wood, which I found so apt 
to grow, as they could well stand ; insomuch, that I 
believe I might set in near twenty thousand of them, 
leaving a pretty large space between them and my 
wall, that I might have room to see an enemy, and 
they might have no shelter from the young trees, if 
they attempted to approach my outer wall. 



igo ROBINSON CRUSOE 

Thus in two years’ time I had a thick grove ; and 
in five or six years' time I had a wood before my dwel- 
ling, grown so monstrous thick and strong, that it 
was, indeed, perfectl3^ impassable' and no man, of 
wliat kind soever, would ever‘ imagine that there was 
anything beyond it, much less a habitation. As for 
the way I proposed m^^self to go in and out (for I left 
no avenue), it was by setting two ladders ; one to a 
part of the rock which was lo'w, and then broke in, 
and left room to place another ladder upon that ; so 
when the two ladders were taken down, no man liviii^ 
could come down to me without mischiefing himself ; 
and if they* had come down they were still on the out- 
side of my outer waTi. 

Thus I took all, the measures human prudence could 
suggest for my own preservation ; and it wilL be seen 
at length, that they were not altogeither without just 
reason — though I foresaw nothing at that time more 
than my mere fear suggested. 

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless 
of my other affairs, for I had a great concern upon me 
for my little herd of goats ; they were not only a 
present supply to me upon every other occasion, and 
Vo be sufficient for me without the expense of powder 
and shot, but also abated the fatigue of my hunting 
after the wild ones ; and I was loath to lose the advan- 
tage of them, and to have them all to nurse up over 
again.* 

To this' puipose, after long consideration, I could 
think but of two ways to preserve thhm : one was to 
find another convenient place to dig a cave under 
ground, and to drive them into it every night ; and 
the other was to enclose two or three little bits 
of land, remote from cine another, and as much 
concealed as I could, where I might keep about half 
a dozen young goats in each place, so that if any 
disaster happened to the flock in general, I might be 
able to raise them again with little trouble and time ; 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 191 

and this, though it would require a great deal of time 
and labour, I thought was the most rational design. 

Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most 
retired parts of the island ; and I pitched upon one 
which was as private, indeed, as my heart could wish, 
for it was a little damp piece of ground in the middle 
of the hollow and thick woods, where, as is observed, 
I almost lost myself once before, endeavouring to come 
back that way from, the eastern part ot the island. 
Here I found a clear piece of land, near three acres, 
surrounded with woods that it was almost an en- 
closure by nature ; at least, it did not want near so 
much labour to make it so, as the other pieces of ground 
I had worked so hard al;. ^ 

I immediately went to work with this piece of 
ground., and in less than a month’s flme I had so fenced 
it round that my Hock, or herd, call it which you please, 
which were not so wild now as at first they might be 
supposed to be, were well enough secured in it. So, 
without any further delay, I removed ten she-goats 
and two he-goats to this^ piece ; and when there, I 
continued to perfect the fence, till I had made it as 
secure as the other, which, however, I did at more 
leisure, and it took me up the more time by a great 
deal. 


CHAPTER XII • 

» » » 

» » 

I observe a Canoe out at Sea — Find the remnant of a 
Carfnibal feast — ^Horror thereon — Double arm my- 
self — ^Discover a Cave^in which I form my Magazine — 
Fears of the Savages be^in to subside. 

All this labour I was at the expense of, purely from 
my apprehensions on the account of the print of a 
man’s foot, which I had seen ; for as yet I never saw 
any human creature come near the island, and I had 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


192 

now lived two years under these uneasinesses, which, 
indeed, made my life much less comfortable than it 
was before, as may well be imagined by any who know 
what it is to live in the constant snare of the fear of 
man : and this I must observe with grief, too,' that 
the discomposure of my mind had too great impres- 
sions also upon the religious part of my thou^ts ; 
for tlie dread and terror of .falling into the hands of 
savages and cannibals lay so upon my spirits, that I 
seldom found myself in a due temper for application 
to my Maker ; at least, not with the sedate calmnek. 
and resignation of soul which I was wont to do. I 
rather frayed to God as under great affliction and 
pressure of mind, sit/rounded with danger, and in 
expectation every night of being murdered and de- 
voured before the morning ; and I must testify from 
my experience, that a temper of peace, thankfulness, 
love, and affection, is much more the proper frame 
for prayer than that of terror and discomposure ; 
and that, under the dread of mischief impending, a 
man is no more fit for a comforting performance of 
the duty of pra 3 dng to God, than he is for repentance 
on a sick bed — for these discomposures affect the mind 
BLs others do the body — and the discomposure of the 
mind must necessarily be as great a disability as that 
of the body, and mucn greater ; piaying to uod being 
properly an act of the mind, not of the body. . 

But to go on. After I had thus secured one part 
of my little living stock, I went about the whole island 
searching for another private place ‘to make such 
another deposit ; when wandering more to the west 
point of the island than I had ever done yet, and look- 
ing out to sea, I thought I saw a boat upon the sea 
at a great distance. I had found a perspective glass 
or two in one of the seamen's chests which I saved 
out of our ship ; but I had it not about me, and this 
was so remote, that 1 could not tell what to make of 
it, though I looked at it till my eyes were not able to 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 193 

look any longer — ^whether it was a boat or not, I did 
not know ; but as I descended from the hill, I could 
see no more of it, so I gave it over ; only I resolved 
to go no more without a perspective glass in my 
pocket. 

When I was come down the hill to the end of the 
island, where indeed I had never been before, I was 
presently convinced that the seeing the print of a 
man's foot was not such a strange thing ip the island 
as 1 imagined ; and, but that it was a special provi- 
^^nce that I was cast upon the side of the island where 
the savages never came, I should easily have known, 
that nothing was more frequent than for,the> canoes 
from the main, when they happened to be a little too 
far out to sea, to shoot over to that side of the island 
for harbour ; likewise, as they often meet and fought 
in their canoes, the victors, having taken any prisoners 
would bring them over to this shore, where, according 
to their dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they 
would kill and eat them — of which hereafter. 

When I was come dowij the hill to the shore, as I 
said above, being the south-west point of the island, 
I was perfectly confounded and amazed ; nor is it 
possible for me to express the horror of my mind, at 
seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands, feet, and 
other bones of human bodies ; and, particularly, I 
observed a place where there had been a fire made, 
and a circle dug in the earth, like a cqck-pit, where I 
supposed the savage, wretches had sat down to their 
inhuman feastbags .upon the bodies of their fellow- 
creatures. 

I was so astonished at, the sight of these things that 
I entertained no notions of any danger to myself from 
it for a long while ; all my apprehensions were buried 
in the thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman, hellish 
brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of human 
nature ; which, though I had heard of often, yet I 
never had so near a view of before — in short, I turned 



.194 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

away my face from the horrid spectacle ; my stomach 
grew sick, and I was just at the point of fainting, 
when nature discharged the disorder from my stomach, 
and having vomited with an uncommon violence, I 
was a little relieved, but could, not bear to stay-in the 
place a moment ; so I got me up the hill again with 
all the speed I could, and walked on towards my own 
habitation. 

When I came a little out bf tjiat part of the island, 
I stood still a while as amazed ; and then recovering 
myself, I looked up with the utmost affection of 
soul, and with a flood of tears in my eyes, gave God 
thanks, thqt had cast my first lot in a part of the world 
where I was distinguished from such dreadful creatures 
as these ; and that, though I had esteemed my present 
condition very miserable, had yet given me so many 
comforts in it, that I had still more to give thanks for 
than to complain of ; and this above aJl, that I had, 
even in this miserable condition, been comforted with 
the knowledge of Himself, and the hope of His blessing, 
which was a felicity more Jhan sufficiently equivalent 
to all the misery which I had suffered, or could 
suffer. 

, In this frame of thankfulness I went home to my 
castle, and began to be much easier now, as to the 
safety of my circumstances, than ever I was before — 
for I observed, that these wretches never came to this 
island, in search of what they could get — ^perhaps not 
seeking, not panting, or not expecting anything here, 
and having often, no doubt, been, up, in the covered 
woody part of it, without finding anything jto their 
purpose. I knew I had been Jiere now almost eighteen 
years, and never saw the least footsteps of a human 
creature there before ; and might be here eighteen 
more as entirely concealed as I was now, if I did not 
discover myself to them, which I had no manner of 
occasion to do, it being my only business to keep 
myself entirely concealed where I was, unless I found 



R.C 


I stood like one thunder-struck. 


Page x8s 





ROBINSON CRUSOE 195^ 

a better sort of creatures than cannibals to make myself 
known tos^ 

Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage 
wretches that I have been speaking of, and of the 
wretched inhuman custom of their devouring and 
eating one another up, that I continued pensive and 
sad, and kept close within my own circle for almost 
two years after this ; when I say my own circle, I 
mean by it my three .plantations, namely, my castle, 
my country seat, which I called my bower, and my 
e>iclosure in the wood ; nor did I look after this for 
any other use than as an enclosure for my goats ; for 
the aversion which nature gave me to t^esa hellish 
wretches was such, that J, was as, fearful of seeing them 
as of seeing the devil himself ; nor did I so much as 
go to look after my boat in all this time, but began 
rather to think of making me another ; for I could 
not think of ever making any more attempts to bring 
the other boat round the island to me, lest I should 
meet with some of those creatures at sea, in which, 
if I had happened to have fallen into their hands, I 
knew what would have been my lot. 

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I 
was in no danger of being discovered by these people, 
began to wear off my uneasiness about them, andl 
began to live just in the same composed manner as 
before ; only with this difference, that I used more 
caution, and kept my eyes more about me thari I did 
before, lest I should happen to be seen tv any of them ; 
and particularly, I ysras more cautious 01 firing my gun, 
lest any of them on the island should happen to hear 
it ; and it was therefore a very good providence to 
me that I had furnished myself with a tame breed of 
goats, that I had no need to hunt any more about the 
woods, or shoot at them ; and if I did catch any more 
of them after this, it was by traps and snares, as I had 
done before — so that for two years after this, I believe 
I never fired my gun once off, though I never went 
R.c. G 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 

out without it ; and, winch was more, as I had saved 
three pistols out of the ship, I always carried them out 
with rue, or at least two of them, sticking them in my 
goat-skill belt ; I likewise furbished up one of the 
great cutlasses that I had out of the ship, and made me 
a belt to put it in also : so that I wa,s now a most 
formidable fellow to look at when I went abroad, if 
yon add to the former description of myself, the par- 
ticular of two pistols, and a great broadsword hanging 
at luy side in a belt, but without a scabbard. 

Things going on thus, as I have said, for some timi;. 
I seemed, excepting these cautions, to be reduced to' 
my former calm sedate way of living. All these things 
tended to snow me more an^ more how far my con- 
dition was from being miserable, compared to some 
others — nay, to many other particulars of life, which 
it might have pleased^^Cod to have made it Iny lot. 
It put me upon reflecting, how little repining there 
would be among mankind, at any condition of life, 
if people would rather compare their condition with 
those that are worse, in order to be thankful, than to 
be always comparing thefli with those which are 
better, to assist their murmurings and complainings. 

As> in my present condition there was not reaUy 
rfjany things which I wanted, so indeed 1 thought 
that the frights I had been in about these savage 
wretches, and the concern I had been in for my own 
preservjaition, had taken off the edge of my inveiition 
tor my own coriveniences, and I had dropped a good 
design, which I had once bent my'thoivjhts upon, and 
that was, to try if I could not maJee some of my barley 
into malt, and then to try to brew myself some beer. 
This was really a whimsical thought, and I reproved 
myself often for the simplicity of it ; for I presently 
saw there would be the want of several things neces- 
sary to the making my beer, that would be impossible 
for me to supply ; as, first, casks to preserve it in, 
which was a thing that, as I have observed already. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 19:^ 

I could never compass — no, though I spent not many 
days, but weeks, nay, months in attempting it, but 
to no purpose. In the next place, I had no hops to 
make it keep, no yeast to make it work, no copper or 
kettle to make it boilL; and yet, had not all these 
things intervemed — I mean the frights and terrors I 
was in about the savages — I had undertaken it, and 
perhaps brought it to pass too ; for I seldom gave 
anything over withoi^t accomplishing it, when I once 
had it in my head enough to^begin it. 

J But my invention now ran quite another way ; for 
night and day I could think of nothing but how I 
might destroy some of these monsters ii^thoir cruel, 
bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save the victim 
they should bring hither to aestroy, It would take 
up a larger voluihe than this whole work is intended 
to be, *to set down all the contrivances I hatched, or 
rather brooded upon in my thoughts, for the destroy- 
ing these creatures, or at least frightening them, so 
as to prevent their coming hither any more ; but all 
was abortive — nothing coyld be possible to take effect, 
unless I was to be there to do it myself ; and what 
could one man do among them, when perhaps there 
might be twenty or thirty of them together, with th^ 
darts, or their bows and arrows, with which they could 
shobt as true to a mark as I could with my gun ? 

• Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under the place 
where they made their fire, and put in §ve or sixiipounds 
of gunpowder, whigh, when they kin^eej their fire, 
would consequently take fire, and blow up all that 
was ne^ it ; but as, in the first place, I should be very 
loath to waste so much, powder upon them, my store 
now being within the quantity of a barrel, so neither 
could I be sure of it going o^f at any certain time, when 
it might surprise them, and at best, that it would 
little more than just blow the fire about their ears, 
and fright them, but not sufficient to make them 
forsake the place, so I laid it aside, and then proposed 



198 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

that I would place m5rself in ambush, in some con- 
venient place, with my three guns all double loaded, 
and in the middle of their bloody ceremony, let fly 
at them, when I should be sure to kill or wound perhaps 
two or three at every shot ; and then, falling irf upon 
them with my three pistols, and my sword, I made 
no doubt but that, if there were twenty, I should kill 
them all. This fancy pleased my thoughts for some 
weeks, and I was so full of it that I often dreamed of 
it, and sometimes, that I was just going to let fly at 
them in my sleep. V., 

I went so far with it in my imagination that I em- 
ployed myself several days to find out proper places 
to put myself in ambuscade; as I said, to watch for 
them, and I went frequently to the place itself, which 
was now grown more familiar to me ; and especially 
while my mind was thus-filled with thoughts of revenge, 
and of a bloody putting twenty or thirty of them to 
the sword, as I may call it, but the horror I had at 
the place, and at the signals of the barbarous wretches 
devouring one another, abated my malice. 

Well, at length I found a place in the side of the 
hill, where I was satisfied I might securely wait till I 
s^w any of the boats coming, and might then, even 
before they would be ready to come on shore, convey 
myself unseen into the thickets of trees, in one of which 
there was a hollow large enough to conceal me entirely, 
and where I might sit, and observe all their bloody 
doings, and take my fuU aim at their heads, when 
they were so close together as that it«would be next 
to impossible that I should miss my shot, or. that I 
could fail wounding three or four of them at the first 
shot. 

In this place, then, I resolved to fix my design ; 
and accordingly, I prepared two muskets and my 
ordinary fowling-piece. Two muskets I loaded with 
a brace of slugs each, and four or five smaller bullets, 
about the size of pistol bullets, and the fowling-piece 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 199 • 

I loaded with near a handful of swan-shot, of the 
largest size ; I also loaded my pistols with about four 
bullets each : and in this posture, well provided with 
ammunition for a second and third charge, I prepared 
myself for my expediticm. 

After I had thus laid the scheme of my design, and 
in my imagination put in practice, I continually made 
my tour every morning up to the top of the hill, which 
was from my castle, as I called it, about jthree miles 
or^more, to see if I could observe any boats upon the 
ida, coming near the island, or standing towards it ; 
but I began to tire of this hard duty, after I had for 
two or three months constantly kept myjwateh, but 
came always back without any discovery, there having 
not in all that time been the least appearance, not 
only on«or near the shore, but not oh the whole ocean, 
so far as my eyes or glasses cfould reach every way. 

As long as I kept up my daily tour to the hill to look 
out, so long also I kept up the vigour of my design, and 
my spirits seemed to be all the while in a suitable 
frame for so outrageous an execution as the killing 
twenty or thirty naked savages for an offence, which 
I had not at all entered into a discussion of in my 
thoughts, any further than my passions were at fir^ 
fired^by the horror I conceived at the unnatmal custom 
of tKe people of that countr}/, who, it seems, had been 
stiffeied by Providence, in His wise disposition of the 
world, to have no other guide than th^t of their own 
abominable and vitiated passions ; and consequently 
were left, and perhaps had been for some ages, to act 
such horrid things, and receive such dreadful customs, 
as nothing but nature, entirely abandoned of Heaven, 
and actuated by some hel^^sh" degeneracy, could have 
run them into; but now,* when, as I have said, I 
began to be weary of the fruitless excursion which I 
had made so long and so far every morning, in vain, 
so my opinion of the action itself began to alter, and 
I began, witli cooler and cahner thoughts, to consider 



200 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


what it was T was going to engage in — what authority 
or call r had to pretend to be judge and executioner 
upon these men as criminals, whom Heaven had 
thought fit for so many ages to suffer unpunished to 
go on, and to be, as it were, 'the executionei's of His 
judgments upon one another; also, how far these 
people were offenders against me, and what right I had 
to engage in the quarrel of that blood which they shed 
promiscuously one upon another. 1 debated this very 
often with m^^elf thus : — How do I know what G(xl 
Himself judges in this particular case ? It is certam^- 
these people do not commit this as a crime ; it is not 
against 'ther own consciences reproving, or their light 
reproaching them. They dd not know it to be an 
offence, and then commit it in defiance of divine 
justice, as we do *in almost all the sins we commit. 
They think it no more a crime to kill. a captive taken 
in war than we do to kill an ox, nor to eat human flesh 
than we do to eat mutton. 

When I had considered this a little, it followed 
necessarily that I was certainly in the wrong in it — 
that these people were not murderers in the sense 
that I had before condemned them in my thoughts, 
aciy more than those Christians were murderers, who 
often put to death the prisoners taken in battle • or 
more frequently, upon many occasions, "put whole 
troops of men to the sword, without giving quarter, 
thoughr they thnsw down their arms and submitted. 

In the next place, it occurred to me, that albeit the 
usage they gave one another waS' thhs brutish and 
inhuman, yet it was really nothing to me these 
people had done me no injury-^^that if they attempted 
me, or I saw it necessary, for my immediate preserva- 
tion, to fall upon them, something might be said for 
it ; but that I was yet out of their power, and they 
had really no knowledge of me, and consequently 
no design upon me, and, therefore, it could not be 
just for me to fall upon them — that this would justify 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


20t 


the conduct of the Spaniards in all their barbarities 
practised in America, where they destroyed millions 
of these people, who, however they were idolaters 
and barbarians, and had several bloody and barbarous 

rites in their custom^ such as sacriheing human 

bodies to theft' idols — were yet, as to the Spaniards, 
very innocent people ; and that the rooting them out 
of the country is spoken of with the utmost abhorrence 
and detestation, even by the Spaniards, themselves, 
at this time, and by aU other Christian nations of 
iturope, as a mere butchery, a bloody and unnatural 
piece of cruelty, unjustifiable either to God or man, 
and such, as for which the very name o£ a Spaniard 
is reckoned to be frightftul ancJ terrible to all people 
of humanity, or of Christian compassion : as if the 
kingdom of Spain were particularly eminent for the 
product of a race of men who were without principles 
of tenderness, or the common bowels of pity to the 
miserable, which is reckoned to be a mark of a generous 
temper in the mind. 

These considerations re*illy put me to a pause, and 
to a kind of a full stop ; and I began by little and little 
to be off my design, and to conclude I had taken a 
wrong measure in my resolutions to attack the savages 
— tbat it was not my business to meddle with them, 
unless they first attacked me, and this it was my 
business, if possible, to prevent ; but that, if I 
were discovered and attacked, then I krifew my 
duty. • • • 

On the othef hefnd, I argued with myself, that this 
really "was not the way to deliver myself, but entirely 
to ruin and destroy m3rseif ; for unless I was sure to 
kill every one that not only should be on shore at that 
time, but that should ever come on shore afterwards 
— if but one of them escaped to tell their country 
people what had happened, they would come over 
again by thousands to revenge the death of their 
fellows : and I should only bring upon myself a certain 



203 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

destruction, which at present I had no manner of 
occasion for. 

Upon the whole, I concluded, that neither in prin^ 
ciples, nor in policy, I ought one way or other to con- 
cern myself in this affair — ^that my business was, by 
all possible means, to conceal myself ftom them, and 
not to leave the least signal to them to guess by that 
there were any living creatures upon the island, I 
mean of human shape. 

Religion joined in with this prudential resoluticQ, 
and I was convinced now many ways that I wzS^ 
perfectly out of my duty, when I was laying all my 
bloody schemes for the destruction of innocent creatures 
— I mean, innocent au to m6 : as to the crimes they 
were guilty of towards one another, I had nothing to 
do with them ; they were nation^ punishments to 
make a just retribution' for national offences, and to 
bring public judgments upon those who offended in 
a public manner, by such ways as best please God. 

This appeared so clear to me now, that nothing was 
a greater satisfaction to me," than that I had not been 
suffered to do a thing which I now saw so much reason 
to believe would have been no less a sin than that of 
wilful murder, if I had committed it ; and I gave 
most humble thanks on my knees to God, that ,had 
thus delivered me from blood-guiltiness, ' beseeching 
Him to grant me the protection of His providence,"that 
I might not fall into the hands of barbarians, or that 
I might not lay my hands upon tiiem, unless I had a 
more dear call from Heaven to dvj if, in defence of 
my own life. 

In this disposition I continued for near a year after 
this : and so far was I from desiring an occasion for 
f£^ing upon these wretch^, that in all that time I 
never once went up the hill to see whether there were 
any of them in sight, or to know whether any of them 
had been on shore there or not, that I might not be 
tempted to renew any of my contrivances against 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 203* 

them, or be provoked, by any advantage which might 
present itself, to fall upon them ; only this I did — I 
went and removed my boat, which I had on the other 
side of the island, "and carried it down to the east end 
of the whole island, where I ran it into a little cove 
which I found under some high rocks, and where I 
knew, by reason of the currents, the savages durst 
not, at least would not, come with their boats, upon 
any account whatsoever. 

fWith my boat I carried away everything that I had 
left there belonging to her, though not necessary for 
the bare going thither — ^namely, a mast and sail, which 
I had made for her, and a thing like an anchbr, but, 
indeed, which could not be cariled either anchor or 
grappling — however, it was the best I could make of 
its kind. All these I removed, that there might not 
be the least shadow of any discovery, or any appear- 
ance of any boat, or of any habitation upon the island. 

Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retired 
than ever, and seldom went from my cell, other than 
upon my constant employment — ^namely, to milk my 
she-goats, and manage my little flock in the wood, 
which, as it was quite on the other part of the island, 
was quite out of danger ; for certain it is, that these 
savage people, who sometimes haunted this island, 
never came with any thoughts of finding anything 
here*, and consequently never wandered oS from the 
coast ; and I doubt not but they might haVte been 
seversd times on shore, after my apprehensions of 
them had mad& m^ cautious, as well as before ; and, 
indeed* I looked back with some horror upon the 
thoughts of what my condition would have been, if 
I had chopped upon them, and been discovered before 
that, when naked and unafmed, except with one gun, 
and that loaded often only with small shot. 1 walked 
everywhere, peeping and peering about the island, to 
see what I could get — what a surprise I should have 
been in, if, when I discovered the print of a man's 



204 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

foot, I had instead of that seen fifteen or twenty 
savages, and found them pursuing me, and, by the 
swiftness of their running, no possibility of my escaping 
them. 

The thoughts of this sometimes sunk my very soul 
within me, and distressed my mind so much that I 
could not soon recover it ; to think what I should 
have done, and how I not only should not have been 
able to resist them, but even should not have had 
presence of mind enough to do what I might haw 
done, much less what now, after so much consideration 
and preparation, I might be able to do. Indeed, after 
serious ^chinking of these things, I would be very 
melancholy, and sonietiimes it ‘would last a great while; 
hut I resolved it at last all into thankfulness to that 
Providence which 'had delivered me from so». many 
unseen dangers, and had kept me from those mis- 
chiefs which I could no way have been the agent in 
delivering myself from ; because I had not the least 
notion of any such thing depending, or the least sup- 
position of its being possible* 

This renewed a contemplation, which often had 
come to my thoughts in former time, when first I 
began to see the merciful dispositions of Heaven, in 
the dangers we run through in this life, how wonder- 
fully we are delivered when we know nothing of it — 
how, when we were in a quandary (as we call it), a 
doubt Cf hesitation whether to go this way or that 
way, a secret hint shall direct usi^this way, when we 
intend to go another way — ^nay, when Sense, our own 
inclination, and perhaps business, has called -to go 
the other way, yet a strange* impression upon the 
mind, from we know not whaj. springs, and by we know 
not what power, shall ove'irule us to go this way : 
and it shall afterwards appear, that had we gone that 
way which we would have gone, and even to our 
imagination ought to have gone, we should have been 
ruined and lost. Upon these, and many like reflections. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE aoj 

I afterwards made it a certain rule with me, that when- 
ever I foimd those secret hints, or pressings of my 
mind, to doing or not doing anything that presented, 
or to going this way or that way, I never failed to 
obey* the secret dictate ; though I knew no other 
reason for it, '^han that such a pressure or such a hint 
hung upon my mind. I could give many examples 
of the success of this conduct in the course of my life, 
but more especially m the latter part of inhabiting 
tjljis unhappy island ; besides many occ^ions which 
it is very likely I might have taken notice of, if I had 
seen with the same eyes then that I saw with now. 
But it is never too late to be wise ; and J cannot but 
advise all considering n>en, wtjpse lives are attended 
with such extraordinary incidents as mine, or even 
though not so extraordinary, not to slight such secret 
intimations of Providence, let them come from what 
invisible intelligence they will — that I shall not dis- 
cuss, and perhaps cannot account for ; but certainly 
they are a proof of the converse of spirits, and the 
secret communication between those embodied and 
those unembodied — and such a proof as can never 
be withstood — of which 1 shall have occasion to give 
some very remarkable Instances, in the remauader of 
my^ solitary residence in this dismal place. * 

r believe the reader of this will not think it strange. 
If I^confess that these anxieties, these constant dangers 
I lived in, and the concern that wap now upon me, 
put an end to all inyention, and to all Jhe pontrivances 
that I had laid ter my future accommodations pnd 
conveniences. I had the care of my safety more now 
upon my hands than that of my food. 1 cared not to 
(hive a naU, or chop a stick of wood now, for fear the 
noise I should make shoufd be heard — ^much less would 
I fire a gun, for the same reason — and, above all, I 
was very uneasy at making any fire, lest the smoke, 
which is visible at a great distance in the day, shoulcl 
betray me ; and, for this reason, I removed that part 



206 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

of my business which required fire, such as burning 
of pots and pipes, etc., into my new apartment in the 
wood ; where, after I had been some time, I found, 
to my unspeakable consolation, a ’mere natural cave 
in the earth which went in a ‘ vast way, and wliere, I 
dare say, no savage, had he been at the mouth of it, 
would be so hardy as to venture in, nor indeed would 
any man else, but one who^ like me, wanted nothing 
so much a^ a safe retreat. 

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom o<^a 
great rock, where, by mere accident (I would say, if 
I did not see an abundant reason to ascribe all such 
things llow^to Providence), I was cutting down some 
thick branches of trees to make charcoal ; and before 
I go on, I must observe the reason of my making this 
charcoal, which wis thus : — 

I was afraid of making a smoke about my habitation, 
as I said before ; and yet I could not live there with- 
out baking my bread, cooking my meat, etc. ; so I 
contrived to burn some wood here, as I had seen done 
in England, under turf, tiK it became chark, or dry 
coal ; and then putting the fire out, I preserved the 
coal to carry home, and perform the other services which 
fire was wanting for at home, without danger or smoke. 

But this by the bye. While I was cutting do\vn ^ome 
wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick branch 
of low brushwood or underwood, there was a kind of 
hollow* place ; I was curious to look into it, and get- 
ting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it 
was pretty large, that is to say, fjuffitient for me to 
stand upright in it, and perhaps another with me ; 
but I must confess to you I made more haste out than 
I did in, when, looking farther into the place, which 
was perfectly dark, I saw' two broad shining eyes of 
some creature, whether devil or man I knew not, 
which twinkled like two stars, the dim light from the 
cave's mouth shining directly in and making the 
reflection. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 207. 

However, after some pause, I recovered myself, 
and began to call myself a thousand fools, and tell 
myself, that he that was afraid to see the devil was not 
fit to live twenty years in an island all alone, and that 
I duret to believe there, was nothing in this cave that 
was more frigljtful than myself. Upon this, plucking 
up my courage, I took up a large firebrand, and in 1 
rushed again, with the stick flaming in my hand ; I 
had not gone three stejis !n, but I was almost as much 
frightened as I was before, for I heard a very loud 
si^h, like that of a man in some pain, and it was 
followed by a broken noise, as if of words half expressed 
and then a deep sigh again. I stepped back, ^nd was 
indeed struck with such y. surprise that it^ut me into 
a cold sweat ; and if I had had a hat on my head, I 
will not answer for it that my hair might not have 
lifted i! off. But still plucking up my spirits as well 
as I could, and encouraging myself a little with con- 
sidering that the power and presence of God was 
everywliere, and was able to protect me ; upon this 
I stepped forward again, and by the light of the fire- 
brand, holding it up a littfe over my head, I saw lying 
on the ground a most monstrous frightful old he- 
goat, just making his will, as we stiy, gasping for life, 
and dying, indeed, of mere old age • 

I ‘stirred.him a little, to see if I could get him out, 
and^he essayed to get up, but was not able to raise 
himself ; and I thought with myself, he miglif even 
lie there, for if he had frightened n!e so, he would 
certainly fright of the savages if any of them 
should be so hardy as to come in there, while he had 
any li?e in him. 

I was now recovered* from my surprise, and began 
to look round me, when I found the cave was but very 
small ; that is to say, it might be about twelve feet 
over, but in no manner of shape, either round or 
square, no hands having ever been employed in making 
it but those of mere nature ; I observed also, that there 



;2q8 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

was a place at the farther side of it that went in 
farther, but so low that it required me to creep upon 
my hands and knees to get into it, and whither it 
went I knew not ; so, having no .pandle, I gave it 
over for some time, but resolyed to come agaiix the 
next day, provided with candles and. a tinder-box, 
which I had made of the lock of one of the muskets, 
with some wild-fire in the pan. 

Accordingly, the next day I. came provided with 
six large candles of my own making, for I made very 
good candles now of goats' tallow ; and, going int'o 
this low place, I was obliged to creep upon all fours, 
as I haye said, almost ten yards, which, by the way, 
I thought was a veqtiire bold enough, considering 
that I knew not how far it might go, or what was 
beyond it. Wliciic I was got through the strait, I 
found the roof rose higher up, I believe near twenty 
feet ; but never was such a glorious sight seen in the 
island, I dare say, as it was, to look round the sides 
and roof of this vault or cave. The walls reflected an 
hundred thousand lights to ijne from my two candles ; 
what it was in the rock, whether diamonds or any 
other precious stones, or gold, which I rather supposed 
it to be, I knew not. 

*rhe place I was in was a most delightful cavity, or 
grotto, of its kind, as could be expected, though per- 
fectly dark ; the floor was dry and leVel, and h^Jp a* 
sort of small loose gravel upon it, so that there^^was no 
nauseous creature to be seen ; neither was there any 
damp or wet oii the sides of the rogf : ithe only diffi- 
culty in it was the entrance, which, however, as it was 
a place of security, and such ,9, retreat as I wanted, 
I thought that was a convenience, so that I was really 
rejoiced at the discovery,, and resolved, without any 
delay, to bring some of those things which I was most 
anxious about to this place ; particularly, I resolved 
to bring hither my magazine of powder, and all my 
spare arms, namely, two fowling-pieces (for I had 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 209 

three in all), and three muskets (for of them I had 
eight in all) ; so I kept at my castle only five which 
stood ready mounted, like pieces of cannon, on my 
outmost fence, and were ready also to take out upon 
any Expedition. • 

tjpon this occasion of removing my ammunition, 
I was obliged to open the barrel of powder which I 
took up out of the sea, ^d which had been wet, and 
I found that the water had penetrated about three 
ojr four inches into the powder on every 'side, which, 
caking and growing hard, had preserved the inside 
like a kernel in a shell, so that I had nearly sixty 
pounds of very good powder in the centre^of the cask ; 
and this was an agreeable disco vrfiry to me at that time t 
so I carried all away thither, never keeping above two 
or three pounds of powder with nte in my castle, for 
fear of a surprise of any kind ; I also carried thither 
all the lead I had left for bullets. 

I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants, 
which were said to live in caves and holes in the rocks, 
where none could come .at them ; for I persuaded 
myself while I was here, if five hundred savages were 
to hunt me, they could never find me out ; or if they 
did they would not venture to attack me here. » 

The old goat w^hich I found expiring died in tht 
mouth of ’the^ cave the next day after I made this 
discovery ; arid I found it much easier 'to dig a great 
hole there, and throw him in and cover him with earth, 
than to drag him r)ut ; so I interred him there, to 
prevent offenctj to my nose. 



.2X0 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


CHAPTER XIII 

My Twenty-third Year of Residence—Discover Savages 
round a Fire holding a Canilibal feast — ^Determine to 
destroy the next Party — Ship lost off the Island — 
Board the Wreck and secure Stores. 

I WAS now in my twenty-third ypar of residence in this 
island, and was so naturalised to the place and to tlje 
manner of living that could I have but enjoyed tne 
certainty that no savages would come to the place 
to disturb me, I could have been content to have 
capitulated ’for spending tho>rest of my time there, 
even to the last moment, till I had laid me down and 
died, like the old goat in the cave : I had also arrived 
to some little diversions and amusements, which made 
the time pass more pleasantly with 'me a great deal 
than it did before ; as, first, I had taught my Poll, 
as I noted before, to speak ; and he did it so familiarly, 
and talked so articulately and plain, that it was very 
pleasant to me, and he lived with me no less than six- 
and-twenty years : how long he might live afterwards 
I knew not, though I know they have a notion in the 
Brazils that they live a hundred years ; perhaps 
some of my Polls may be alive there still, colling after 
Poor Robin Crusoe to this day ; I wish no Engjish* 
man the ill luck to come there and hear them ; but 
if he did, he would certainly believe it was the devil. 
My dog was a very pleasant and.lovfng companion 
to me for no less than sixteen years of my timye, and 
then died of mere old age. As for my cats, they multi- 
plied, as I have observed, to that degree that I was 
obliged to shoot several of them at first, to keep them 
from devouring me and all I had ; but at length, when 
the two old ones I brought with me were gone, and 
after some time continually driving them from me, 
and letting them have no provision with me, they all 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 211 . 

ran wild into the woods, except two or three favourites, 
which I kept tame, and whose young, when they had 
any, I always drowned, and these were part of my 
family : besides these, I always kept two or three 
household kids about me, which I taught to feed out 
of my hand ; and I had also more parrots, which talked 
pretty well, and would all call Robin Crusoe, but none 
like my first ; nor, indeed, did I take the pains with 
any of them that I had done with him. I had also 
several tame sea-fowls, whose names I 'know not, 
which I caught upon the shore, and cut their wings ; 
and the little stakes which I had planted before my 
castle wall being now grown up to a good thick* grove, 
these fowls all lived among thes^ low trees, and bred 
there, which was very agreeable to me ; so that, as 
I said ^bove, I began to be very well contented with 
the life I led, if it might but have been secured from 
the dread of savages. 

But it was otherwise directed ; and it might not 
be amiss for all people, who shall meet with my story, 
to make this just observ2gtion from it, namely, how 
frequently, in the course of our lives, the evil which 
in itself we seek most to shun, and which, when we 
are fallen into, is the most dreadful to us, is oftentimes 
the very means or door of our deliverance, by which 
alonfi we can be raised again from the affliction we 
are f^len into.* I could give many examples of this 
in the course of my unaccountable life but in nothing 
was it more particjjilarly remarkable, , th§ii in that 
circumstances of lyy last years of solitary residerv:e 
in this, island. 

It was now the month.of December, as I said above, 
in my twenty-third year ; mid this being the southern 
solstice — ^for winter I canno*^ call it — ^was the particular 
time of my harvest, and required my being pretty 
much abroad in the fields ; when, going out pretty 
early in the morning, even before it was thorough 
daylight, I was surprised with seeing a light of some 



212 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

fire upon the shore, at a distance from me of about 
two miles, towards the end of the island where I had 
observed some savages had been, as before ; but not 
on the other side, but, to my great affliction, it was 
on my side of the island. 

I was, indeed, terribly surprised ab the sight, and 
stopped short within my grove, not daring to go out, 
lest I might be surprised;^ and yet, I had no more 
peace within, from the apprehensions I had, that if 
these savages, in rambling over the island, should fjnd 
my com standing, or cut, or any of my works and 
improvements, they would immediately conclude that 
there were,, people in the place, and would then never 
give over till they f<?und me out. In this extremity 
I went back directly to my castle, pulled up the ladder 
after me, having made all things without look as wild 
and natural as I could." 

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in 
a posture of defence : I loaded all my cannon, as I 
called them — that is to say, my muskets — which were 
mounted upon my fortification, and all my pistols, 
and resolved to defend myself to the last gasp ; not 
forgetting seriously to recommend myself to the 
divine protection, and earnestly to pray to God to 
deliver me out of the hands of the barbarians ; and 
in this posture I continued about two " hours," but 
began to be ^mighty impatient for intelligence abroad, 
for I -had no spies to send out. 

After sitting a while longer,, and musing what I 
should do in this case, I was not -able to bear sitting 
in ignorance longer ; so, setting up my ladder to the 
side of the hill where there was a flat place, as I 
observed before, and then, pulling the ladder up after 
me, I set it up again, and mounted to the top of the 
hill ; and pulling out my perspective glass, which 1 
had taken on purpose, I laid me down flat on my belly 
on the ground, and began to look for the place. I 
presently found there were no less than nine naked 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 213 

savages sitting round a small lire they had made ; 
not to warm them — for they had no need of that, the 
weather being extremely hot — but, as I suppose, to 
dress some of their barbarous diet of human flesh 
which •they had brought with them, whether live or 
dead 1 could nci know. 

They had two canoes with them, which they had 
hauled up upon the shore ; and as it was then tide 
of ebb, they seemed tQ me to wait the return of the 
flo(jd to go away again. It is not easy tb imagine 
what confusion this sight put me into, especially seeing 
them come on my side the island and so near me too ; 
but when I observed their coming must be always 
with the current of the ebb, I began afterwards to be 
more sedate in my mind, being satisfied that I might 
go abroad with safety all the time (tf tide of flood, if 
they were not on shore before ; and, having made 
this observation, I went abroad about my harvest 
work with the more composure. 

As I expected, so it proved ; for as soon as the tide 
made to the westward, I s^w them aU take boat, and 
row (or paddle, as we call it) all away ; I should have 
observed, that for an hour and more before they went 
off, they went to dancing, and I could easily discern 
their postures and gestures by my glasses : I coulci 
only ’perceive, by my nicest observation, that they 
were^ stark nakfed, and had not the least covering 
upon them ; but whether they were njen or wcmien, 
that I could not distinguish. , , 

As soon as I saw tjiem shipped and gone, I took twp 
guns uppn my shoulders, and two pistols at my girdle, 
and my great sword by ijiy side, without a scabbard ; 
and with all the speed I w^as able to make, I went away 
to the hill, where I had discwercd the first appearance 
of all. As soon as I got thither, which was not less 
than two hours (for I could not go apace, being so 
loaded with arms as I was), I perceived there had been 
three canoes more of savages on that place ; and 



214 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

looking out farther, I saw they were all at sea together, 
making over for tlie main. 

This was a dreadful sight to me, especially when, 
going to the shore, I could see the marks of horror 
which the dismal work they had been about had 
left behind it, namely, the blood, the bones, and part 
of the flesh of human bodies, eaten and devoured by 
those wretches with merriment and sport. I was so 
filled with indignation at the sight, that I began now 
to premeditate the destruction of the next that I saw 
there, let them be who or how many soever. 

It seemed evident to me, that the visits which they 
thus m^-de to this island were not very frequent ; for 
it was abov'e fifteen months before any more of them 
came on shore there again — ^that is to say, I never saw 
them, or any footsteps or signals of them, in all that 
time ; for as to the rainy seasons, then they are sure not 
to come abroad, at least not so far ; 'yet all this while 
I lived uncomfortably, by reason of constant appre- 
hensions I was in of their coming upon me by surprise 
— from whence I observe, that the expectation of evil 
is more bitter than the suffering, especially if there 
is no room to shake off that expectation, or those 
apprehensions. 

During all this time, I was in the murdering humour, 
and took up most of my hours, which should have 
been better employed, in contriNing how to circumr 
vent ^d fall upon them the very next time I should 
see them, especially if they should be divided, as they 
were the last time, into two parties ' nor did I consider 
at all, that if I killed one party, suppose ten or a dozen, 
I was still the next day, or week, or month, to kill 
another, and so another, even ad infinitum, till I 
should be at length no less a murderer than they were 
in being men-eaters, and perhaps much more so. 

I spent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety 
of mind, expecting that I should one day or other fall 
into the hands of those merciless creatures ; if I did 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 215’ 

at any time venture abroad, it was not without looking 
round me with the greatest care and caution imagin- 
able ; and now I found to my great comfort, how happy 
it waf that I had provided a tame flock or herd of 
goats ; for I durst not, upon any account, fire my gun, 
especially neai* that side of the island where they 
usually came, lest I should alarm the savages ; and 
if they had fled from me now, I was sure to have them 
come back again, with perhaps two or thr.ee hundred 
cenoes with them in a few days, and then I knew what 
to expect. 

However, I wore out a year and three months mont 
before I ever saw any more of the savagos, aiTd then 
I found them again, as *1 shalJr soon observe. It is 
true, they might have been there once or twice, but 
either they made no stay, or at Ichst I did not hear 
them ; but in the month of May, as near as I could 
calculate, and in my four-and-twentieth year. I had 
a very strange encounter with them, of which in its 
place. 

The perturbation of my* mind during this fifteen or 
sixteen months* interval was very great ; I slept un- 
quiet, dreamed always frightful dreams, and often 
started out of my sleep in the night : in the day grejfct 
troubles overwhelmed my mind ; in the night I 
dreamed often ,of killing the savages, and the reasons 
wh}^I might justify the doing of it. But to waive all 
this for a while : it was in the middle of JMay, on the six- 
teenth day, I think, as well as my poor waooden calendar 
would reckon, lor I marked all upon the post still-.-I 
say, it -was on the sixteenth of May that it blew a 
great storm of wind all day, with a great deal of light- 
ning and thunder, and a v,ery foul night was after it : 

I know not what was the •particular occasion of it ; 
but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up with 
serious thoughts about my present condition, I was 
surprised with the noise of a gun, as I thought, fired 
at sea. 



‘ 216 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

This was, to be sure, a surprise of a quite different 
nature from any I had met with before ; for the 
notions this put into my thoughts were quite of another 
kind. I started up in the greatest haste imaginable ; 
and, in a trice, clapped up lay ladder to the middle 
place of the rock, and pulled it after me; and, mounting 
it the second time, got to the top of the hill ; that very 
moment a flash of &e bade me listen for a second gun, 
which, accordingly, in about half a moment, I heard, 
and, by the sound, knew that it was from that port 
of the sea where 1 was driven out with the current 
in my boat. 

I immediately considered tliat this must be some 
ship in distress, and that they had some comrade, or 
some other ship in company, and fired these guns for 
signals of distress, and to obtain help. I had this 
presence of mind that minute, as to think that though 
I could not help them, it might be they might help 
me ; so I brought togetJier aJJ the dry wood I could 
get at hand, and making a good handsome pile, I set 
it on fire upon the hill. The wood was dry, and blamed 
freely, and, though the wind blew very hard, yet it 
burnt fairly out, so that I was certain, if there was 
any such thing as a ship, they must nee^ see it ; and 
no doubt they did, for as soon as ever my fire blazed 
up, I heard another gun, and after that several others, 
aU from the same quarter. 1 plied my fire all r^iglit 
long till day broke ; and when it was broad day, and 
the air cleared up, I saw something at a great distance 
at sea, full east of the island, whether a sail or a hull 
I could not distinguish, no, not with my glacses, the 
distance was so great, and the weather still something 
hazy also ; at least it was §0 out at .sea. 

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon per- 
ceived that it did not move, so I presently concluded 
that it was a ship at anchor ; and being eager, you 
may be sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in my hand, 
and ran towards the south-east side of the island, to 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 217 

the rocks, where I had been formerly carried away 
with the current ; and getting up there, the weather 
by this time being perfectly clear, I could plainly see 
to my^ great sorrow, the wreck of a ship cast away 
in the'night upon those eoncealed rocks which I found 
when I was outnn my boat ; and which rocks, as they 
checked the violence of the stream, and made a counter 
stream, or eddy, were th^ oceasion of my recovering 
then from the most desperate, hopeless condition that 
evfw: I had been in all my life. 

Thus, what is one man’s safety is another man’s 
destruction ; for it seems these men, whoever they 
were, being out of their knowledge, and, the* rocks 
being wholly under water, had been driven upon 
them in the night, the wind blowing hard at east and 
east-north-east. Had they seen the'island, as I must 
necessarily suppose they did *not, they must, as I 
thought, have endeavoured to have saved themselves 
on shore by the help of their boat ; but the firing of 
their guns for help, especially when they saw, as I 
imagined, my fire, filled me with many thoughts ; 
first, I imagined that, upon seeing my light, they 
might have put themselves into their boat, and have 
endeavoured to make the shore, but that the se% 
going very high, they might have been cast away ; 
other times* I ipaagined, that they might have lost 
theii^boat before, as might be the case Vnany ways ; 
as particularly, by the breaking of thetsea upon* their 
ship, which many times obliges men to .stave or take 
in pieces their t/bat; and sometimes to throw it over- 
board with their own hand : other times 1 imagined 
they had some other ship or ships in company, who, 
upon the signals of distress .they had made, had taken 
them up and carried them off*; other whiles I fancied 
they were all gone off to sea in their boat, and being 
hurried away by the current that I had been formerly 
in, were carried out into the great ocean, where there 
was nothing but misery and perishing • and that 



2i8 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

perhaps they might, by this time, be starving, and in a 
condition to eat one another. 

All these were but conjectures at best ; so, in the 
condition I was in, I could do no more than look upon 
the misery of the poor men, and pity them ; which 
had still this good effect upon my siae, that it gave 
me more and more cause to give thanks to God, who 
had so happily and comfortably provided for me in 
my desolate condition, and that, of two ships' com- 
panies, who were now cast away upon this part^'of 
the world, not one life should be spared but mine. I 
learned here again to observe, that it is very rare that 
the prdvidence of God casts us into any condition of 
life so low, or any misery so great, but we may see 
something or other to be thankful for, and may see 
others in worse circumstances than our own. 

Such certainly was the case of these men, of whom 
I could not so much as see room to suppose any of 
them were saved ; nothing could make it rational 
so much as to wish or expect that they did not all 
perish there, except the possibility only of their being 
taken up by another ship in company — and this was 
but mere possibility indeed ; for I saw not the least 
signal or appearance of any such thing. 

I cannot explain, by any possible energy of words, 
what a strange longing, or hankering „of desire, I felt 
in my soul upon this sight — ^breaking out sometimes 
thus “ Oh I that there had been but one or two, nay, 
but one soul saved out of the ship, to have escaped to 
me, that 1 might have had but one Companion, one 
fellow-creature, to have spoken to me, and to have 
conversed with ! " In all the- time of my solitary life 
I never felt so earnest, so strong a desire after the 
society of my fellow-crealtures, or so deep a regret 
at the want of it. 

There are some secret moving springs in the affec- 
tions, which, when they are set a-going by some object 
in view, or be it some object though not in view, yet 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 219' 

I 

rendered present to the mind by the power of imagina- 
tion, that motion carries out the soul by its impetuosity 
to such violent eager embracings of the object, that 
the absence of it is insupportable. 

Such were these earneSst wishings that but one man 
had been saved ! Oh, that it had been but one I I 
believe I repeated the words, Oh, that it had been 
but one ! a thousand times ; and my desires were 
so moved by it, that when I spoke the words, my hands 
wcxild clench together, and my fingers press the palms 
of my hands, that if I had had any soft thing in my 
hand, it would have crushed it involuntarily ; and 
my teeth in my head would strike togethet, and 
set against one another so strong, that for some time 
I could not part them again. 

Let ^he naturalist explain these things, and the 
reason and manner of them ; all I can say of them is, 
to describe the fact, which was ever surprising to me 
when I found it, though I knew not from what it 
should proceed : it was doubtless the effect of ardent 
wishes, and of strong ideas formed in my mind, realising 
the comfort which the conversation of one of my fellow 
Christians would have been to me. 

But it was not to be ; either their fate, or mine, ow 
both, forbade it ; for till the last year of my being 
on this island, I never knew whether any were saved 
out'Tjf that ship or no ; and had only the affliction, 
soiifie days after, to see the corpse of a drowned boy 
come on shore, at the end of the island which was 
next the shipwrfeck •: he had on no clothes but a sea- 
man's waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen drawers, 
and a blue linen shirt ; *but nothing to direct me so 
much as to guess what nation he was of. He had 
nothing in his pocket but fwo pieces of eight, and a 
tobacco pipe : the last was to me of ten times more 
value than the first. 

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture 
out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I 



220 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

might find something on board that might be useful 
to me ; but that did not altogether press me so much, 
as the possibility that there might yet be some living 
creature on board, whose life I might not only save, 
but might, by saving that life, comfort my own to 
the last degree : and this thought dung so to my 
heart, that I could not be quiet night nor day, but I 
must venture out in my boat on board this wreck ; 
and committing the rest to Godrs providence, I thought 
the impression was so strong upon my mind thav it 
could not be resisted, that it must come from some 
invisible direction, and that I should be wanting to 
myself if I did not go. 

Under the power o^^ this iihpression, I hastened back 
to my castle, prepared everything for my voyage, 
took a quantity of bread, a great pot of fresh water, 
a compass to steer by, ‘a bottle of rum (for I had still 
a great deal of that left), a basket full of raisins ; and 
thus loading myself with everything necevssary, I 
went down to my boat, got the water out of her, and 
got her afloat, loaded aU my cargo in her, and then 
went home again for more : my second cargo was a 
great bagful of rice, the umbrella to set up over my 
head for shade, another large potful of fresh water, 
and about two dozen of my small loaves, or b^rley- 
caJces, more than before, with a bottlp of*goat's milk, 
and a cheese"; all which, with great labour and s*f/eat, 
I brotight to my boat ; and, praying to God to direct 
my voyage, I put out, and, roiving or paddling the 
canoe along the shore, I came at’la^fc to the utmost 
point of the island, on that side, namely, noith-east. 
And now I was to launch out into the ocean, and 
either to venture or not to venture : I looked on the 
rapid currents which raii^constantly on both sides of 
the island, at a distance, and which were very terrible 
to me, from the remembrance of the hazard I had 
been in before, and my heart began to fail me ; for 
I foresaw, that if I was driven into either of those 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


221 


cunents, I should be carried a vast way out to sea, 
and perhaps out of reach or sight of the island again ; 
and that then, as my boat was but small, if any little 
gale of wind should rise, I should be inevitably lost. 

These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began 
to give over my enterprise ; and having hauled my 
boat into a little creek on the shore, I stepped out, 
and sat me dowai upon a. little spot of rising ground, 
very pensive and anxious, between fear and desire, 
abwt my voyage ; when, as I was musing, I could 
perceive that the tide was turned, and the flood came 
on, upon which my going w^as for so many hours 
impracticable ; upon this, it presently (jeeurred to 
me, that I should go up to the Ivghest piece of groimd 
I could find, and observe, if I could, how the sets of 
the tide, or currents lay, w^hen the fibod came in, that 
I might judge whether, if I was driven one way out, 
I might not expect to be driven another way home, 
with the same rapidness of the currents. This thought 
was no sooner in my head, but I cast my eye upon a 
little hill which sufficiently overlooked the sea both 
ways, and from whence I had a clear view of the 
currents, or sets of the tide, and which way I was to 
guide myself in my return ; here I found, that as th^ 
current of the ebb set out close by the south point of 
the island, ^ tlje current of the flood set in close by 
the ^ore of the north side ; and that I ‘had nothing 
to do but to keep to the north side of the island in 
my return, and I should do well enough. . 

Encouraged With* this observation, I resolved the 
next miming to set out with the first of the tide ; 
and, reposing myself for tshat night in the canoe, under 
the great watch-coat 1 mentioned, I launched out. 
I made first a little out to s*ea full north, till I began 
to feel the benefit of the current, wffiich set eastward, 
and which carried me at a great rate, and yet did not 
so hurry me as the southern side current had done 
before, and so as to take from me all government of 



222 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

the boat ; but, having a strong steerage with my 
paddle, I went, I say, at a great rate, directly for 
the wreck, and in less than two hours I came up 
to it. 

It was a dismal sight to look at : the ship, which 
by its building was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in 
between two rocks ; all the stern and quarter of her 
was beaten to pieces with ijie sea : and as her fore- 
castle, which had stuck in the rocks, had run on with 
great violence, her mainmast and foremast were 
brought by the board, that is to say, broken short off ; 
but her boltsprit was sound, and the head and bow 
appeared fijrm. When I came close to her, a dog 
appeared upon her, M'hich, seeing me coming, yelped 
and cried, and as soon as I called him, jumped into 
the sea to come t<y me, and I took him into the boat, 
but found him almost dead for hunger and thirst : I 
gave him a cake of my bread, and he ate it like a 
ravenous wolf that had been starving a fortnight in 
the snow ; I then gave the poor creature some fresh 
water, with wliich, if I would have let him, he would 
have burst himself. 

After this I went on board. The first sight I met 
^jfith was two men dro>\ned in the cook-room, or fore- 
castle of the ship, with their arms fast about one 
another. I concluded, as is indeed probable, that when 
the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea broks* so 
high, «nd so cqutinually over her, tliat the men were 
not able to. bear it, and were str;gLngled with the con- 
stant rushing in of the water, as muck as if they had 
been under water. Besides the dog, there was nothing 
left in the ship that had life> nor any goods that I 
could see, but what was spoiled by the water : there 
were some casks of liquor, whether wine or brandy I 
knew not, which lay lower in the hold, and which, 
the water, being ebbed out, I could see ; but they 
were too big to meddle with : I saw several chests, 
which I believed belonged to some of the seamen, 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 223' 

and I got two of them into the boat without examining 
what was in them. 

Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the fore 
part broken off, I. am persuaded I might have made 
a go(fd voyage ; for, by Avhat I found in these two 
chests, I had room to suppose the ship had a great 
deal of wealth on board : and if I may guess by the 
course she steered, she must have been bound from 
Buenos Ayres, or the. Rio de la Plata, in the south 
part of America, beyond the Brazils, to the Havanna, 
in the Gulf of Mexico, and so, perhaps, to Spain ; she 
had, no doubt, a great treasure in her, but of no use 
at that time to anybody ; and what begame* of the 
rest of her people I then* knew jnot. 

I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of 
liquor, pf about twenty gallons, wliich 1 got into my 
boat with much difficulty. There were several muskets 
in the cabin, and a great powder-horn, with about 
four pounds of powder in it ; as for the muskets, I had 
no occasion for them, so I left them, but took the 
powder-horn. I took a fire-shovel and tongs, which I 
wanted extremely, as also two little brass kettles, a 
copper-pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron ; and 
witn this cargo, and the dog, I came away, the tid^p 
beginning to make home again ; and the same evening, 
aboilt an hour within night, I reached the island again, 
weary and fati^ied to the last degree. ' 

I reposed that night in the boat, and, in the morning 
I resolved to harbour what I had gotten in my new 
cave, not to car^-y it home to my castle. After refresh- 
ing myself, I got all my cargo on shore ; and began to 
examine the particulars,; the cask of liquor I found 
to be a kind of nim, but not such as we had at the 
Brazils ; and, in a word, not at all good : but, when 
I came to open the chests, I found several things which 
I wanted ; for example, I found in one a fine case of 
bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and filled with 
cordial waters, fine, and very good ; the bottles held 



224 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

about three pints each, and were tipped with silver. 
I found two pots of very good succades or sweetmeats, 
so fastened also on top, that the salt water had not hurt 
them, and two more of the same, which the water had 
spoiled ; I found some very^ good shirts, which were 
very welcome to me, and about a dpzen and a half 
of white linen handkerchiefs and coloured neckcloths; 
the former were also very welcome, being exceedingly 
refreshing to wipe my face in a hot day. Besides this, 
when I came to the till in the chests, I found t^jere 
three great bags of pieces of eight, which held about 
eleven hundred pieces in all ; and in one of them, 
wrapt, up in a paper, six doubloons of gold, and some 
small bars'" or wedgef of gold ; I suppose they might 
all weigh near a pound. 

The other chest I found had some clothes in it, but 
of little value ; but, by the circumstances, it must 
have belonged to the gunner’s mate, as there was no 
powder in it, but about two pounds of glazed powder 
in the three flasks, kept, I suppose, for charging their 
foWling-pieces on occasioiji. Upon the whole, I got 
very little by this voyage that was of much use to 
me ; for, as to the money, I had no manner of occasion 
for it — it was to me as the dirt under my feet ; and 
*1 would have given it all for three or four pair of 
English shoes and stockings, which were things I 
greatly wanted, but had not had on ‘my feet nq,\v .for 
many years : I had, indeed, got two pair of shoes 
now, which I took off the feet of the two drowned men 
\yhom I saw in the wreck ; and 1 .found two pair more 
in one of the chests, which were very welcome to me ; 
but they were not like our .English shoes, either for 
ease or service, being rather what we call pumps than 
shoes. I found in the sq^riian’s chest about fifty pieces 
of eight in royals, but no gold : I suppose this belonged 
to a poorer man than the other, which seemed to 
belong to some officer. 

Well, however, I lugged the money home to my cave. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE ’ 225 

and laid it up, as I had done that before which I 
brought from our own ship ; but it was great pity, 
as I said, that the other part of the ship had not come 
to my share, for I am satisfied I might nave loaded 
my canoe several limes over with money, which, if 
I had ever escaped to * England, would have lain 
here safe enough till I might have come again and 
fetched it. 

Having now brought all my things on sliore, and 
secured them, 1 went hack to my boat, and rowed 
anc? paddled her along the shore to her old harbour, 
where I laid her up, and made the best of my way to 
my old habitation, where I found everything safe 
and quiet ; so I began to repose myself, li\*e after my 
old fashion, and take care of my* family affairs ; and 
for a while 1 lived easy enough, only that I was more 
vigilant 'than I used to be, looked out oftener, and 
did not go abroad so much ; and if at any time I did 
stir with any freedom, it was always to the east part 
of the island, where 1 was pretty well satisfied the 
savages never came, and where I could go withoulvBO 
many precautions, and such'a load of arms and ammu- 
nition as I always caiTied with me, if I went the 
other way. 


CHAPTER XIV 

An Extraordinaiy Dream — Discover five Canoes of 
Savages on Shore — Observe two taken to be eaten — 
I save the life of one — Christen him Friday, and make 
him my Servant. 

I LIVED in this condition near two years more, but my 
unlucky head, that was always to let me know it was 
born to make my body miserable, was all these two 
years filled with projects and designs how, if it were 



226 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


possible, I might get away from this island — for some- 
times I was .for making another voyage to the wreck, 
though my reason told me, that there was nothing 
left there worth the hazard of my voyage — some- 
times for a ramble one way, sometimes anothej — ^and 
I believe verily, if I had had the boat that I went from 
Sallee in, I should have ventured to sea, bound any- 
where, I knew not whither. 

I have been, in all my circumstances, a memento 
to those who are touched with that general plague 
of mankind, whence, for aught I know, one half of 
their miseries flow — I mean, that of not being satisfied 
with the station wlierein God and nature hath placed 
them — for, not to look back upon my primitive con- 
dition, and the excellent advice of my father, the 
opposition to whi'^h was, as I may call it, my original 
sin, my subsequent mistakes of the same kind have 
been the means of my coming into this miserable 
condition ; for had that Providence, which so happily 
had seated me at the Brazils as a planter, blessed me 
with confined desires, and could I have been contented 
to have gone on gradually* I might have been by this 
time — I mean in the time of my being on this island — 
one of the most considerable planters in the Brazils ; 
hay, I am persuaded, that by the improvements I 
had made in that little time I lived there, and tlie 
increase I should probably have made-if I had staved, 
I might have been worth a hundred thousand moidojres: 
and what business had I to leave a settled fortune, 
well stocked plantation, imprcfving ^and increasing, 
to turn supercargo to Guinea, to Jetch negroes, when 
patience and time would have so increased our stock 
at home, that we could have bought them at our 
own doors from those wbpse business it was to fetch 
them ? And though it liad cost us something more, 
yet the difference of that price was by no means worth 
saving at so great a hazard. 

But as this is ordinarily the fate of young heads. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE ’ 227 , 

so reflection upon the folly of it is as ordinaril}^ the 
exercise of more years, or of the dear bought experi- 
ence of time — and so it was with me now ; and yet, 
so deep had the mistake taken root in my temper, 
that h could not sa'tisfy niyself in my station, but was 
continually poring upon the means and possibility 
of my escape from this place ; and that I may. with 
the greater pleasure to the reader, bring on the remain- 
ing part of my story, it iilay not be improper to give 
soijie account of my first conceptions on the subject 
of this foolish sclieihe for my escape ; and how, and 
upon what foundation, I acted. 

I am now to be supposed to be retired i^fo my 
castle after my late voyage to the wreck,* my frigate 
laid up, and secured under water as usual, and my 
condition restored to what it was before. I had more 
wealth, 'indeed, than I had before, but was not all the 
richer ; for I had no more use of it than the Indians 
of Peru had before the Spaniards came thither. 

It was one of the nights in the rainy season in March, 
the four-and-twentieth ye^ of my first setting foot 
on this island of solitariness ; I was lying in my bed, 
or hammock, awake, and very well in health — had no 
pain, no distemper, no uneasiness of body, no, nor 
any uneasiness of mind more than ordinary, buT 
could by no means close my eyes, tliat is, so as to 
sle^; no, not 'a wink all night long, otherwise than 
as follows: — 

It is impossible as needless to set' down the in- 
numerable crowd of •thoughts that whirled through 
that great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory, in 
this night's time. I ran over the whole history of my 
life in miniature, or by abridgement, as I may call it, 
to my coming to this island,; , and also of that part of 
my life since I came to this island. In my reflections 
upon the state of my case, since I came on shore on 
this island, I was comparing the happy posture of 
my affairs, in the first years of my habitation here. 



,228 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

to that course of anxiety, fear, and care, which I had 
lived in even since I had seen the print of a foot in 
the sand ; not that I did not believe the savages 
had frequented the island even all the while, and 
might have been several hundreds of thern at 
times on the shore there, but as I had never known it, 
and was incapable of any apprehensions about it, 
my satisfaction was perfect, though my danger was 
the same ; and I was as happy in not knowing my 
danger, as 'if I had never really been exposed to at. 
This furnished my thoughts with many vety profitable 
reflections, and particularly this one : How infinitely 
good that Providence, which has settled in its govern- 
ment of mankind such narrow bounds to his sight and 
knowledge of things ; and though he walks in the 
midst of so many thousand dangers, the sight of which, 
if discovered to him. would distract his mind and 
sink his spirits, he is kept serene and calm, by having 
the events of things hid from his eyes, and knowing 
nothing of the dangers which surround him 1 
After these thoughts had for some time entertained 
me, I came to reflect seriously upon the real danger 
I had been in for so many years in this very island ; 
and how I had walked about in the greatest security, 
and with all possible tranquillity, even, perhaps, when 
nothing but a brow of a hill, a great tree, or the casual 
approach of -night, had been betwe^?n me and^ tfee 
worst kind of destruction — ^namely, that of falling 
into the hands of the cannibals and savages, who 
would have seized on me with the^same view as I did 
on a goat or a turtle, and have thought it no, more a 
crime to kill and devour me than 1 did of a pigeon or 
curlew. I should unjustly slander myself, if I should 
say I was not sincerely tbadkful to my great Preserver, 
to whose singular protection I adaiowledged with 
great humility, that aH these unknown deliverances 
were due, and without which I should inevitably have 
fallen into their merciless hands. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE ' 229. 

When these thoughts were over, my head was for 
some time taken up in considering the nj^ture of those 
wretched creatures, I mean the savages ; and how it 
came to pass in the world, that the wise Governor of 
all things should give up any of his creatures to such 
inhumanity — nay, to something so much below even 
brutality itself— as to devour its own kind: but as 
this ended in some (at that time fruitless) speculations, 
it occurred to me to inquire what part of the world 
these wretches lived in : how far oh the ooast it was 
from whence they came ; what they ventured so far 
from home for ; What kind of boats they had ; and 
why I might not order myself, and my busiqess, so 
that I might be as able tqgo over thither as they were 
to come to me. • 

I never so much as troubled myself to consider 
what r should do with myself when I came thither ; 
what should become of me if I fell into the hands of 
the savages ; or how I should escape from them if 
they attempted to take me ; no, nor so mudx as how 
it was possible for me to reach the coast, and not be 
attacked by some or other’of them, without any possi- 
bility of delivering myself ; and if I should not fall 
into their hands, what I should do for provision, or 
whither I should bend my course : none of theSfe 
thoughts, I.say, so much as came in my way ; but my 
mijjd was wholly bent upon the notion gf my passing 
ovgf in my boat to the mainland. I looked bacl^upon 
my present condition as the most 'miserable that 
could possibly lye ; ^that I was not able tb throw myself 
into aiwthing but "death that could be called wors*e ; 
that if I reached the shore of the main, I might perhaps 
meet with relief ; or I might coast along, as I did on 
the shore of Africa, till i, came to some inhabited 
country, and where I might find some relief ; and 
after all, perhaps, I might fall in with some Christian 
ship that might take me in ; and if the worst came to 
the worst, I could but die ; which would put an end to 



230 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

all these miseries at once. Pray, note, all this was the 
fruit of a dis<':urbed mind — an impatient temper, made, 
as it were, desperate by the long continuance of my 
troubles, and the disappointments, I had met in the 
wreck I had been on board of, and where I had been 
so near the obtaining of what I so earnestly longed 
for, namely, somebody to speak to, and to learn some 
knowledge from, of the place where I was, and of the 
probable means of my deliverance — I say, I was 
agitated wholly by these thoughts. All my calrr^. of 
mind in my resignation to Providence, and waiting 
the issue of the dispositions of Heaven, seemed to be 
suspei>ded ; and I had, as it were, no power to turn 
my thoughts to anything but the project of a voyage 
to the main, which came upon me with such force, 
and such an impetuosity of desire, that it was not to 
be resisted. 

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours 
or more, with such violence that it set my very blood 
into a ferment, and my j>ulse beat as high as if I had 
been in a fever, merely with the extraordinary fervour 
of my mind about it, nature, as if I had been fatigued 
and exhausted with the very thought of it, threw me 
into a sound sleep : one would have thought I should 
have dreamed of it ; but I did not, nor of anything 
relating to it ; but I dreamed, that as I was going out 
in the morning, as usual, from my cattle, I saw upon 
the shore two canoes and eleven savages coming, to 
land, and that they brought with them another savage, 
whom they were going to kill, in order to eat him, 
when, on a sudden, this savage that they were going 
to kill, jumped away, and ran for his life ; then, I 
thought in my sleep, that he came running into my 
little thick grove, before/ my fortification, to hide 
himself ; and that I, seeing him alone, and not per- 
ceiving that the others sought him that way, showed 
myself to him, and smiling upon him encouraged him: 
that he kneeled down to me, seeming to pray me to 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 231 ' 

assist him ; upon which I showed my ladder, made 
him go up it, and carried him into my fcave, and he 
became my servant ; and that as soon as I got this 
man J^said to myself, “ Now, I may certainly venture 
to the mainland ; for this fellow will serve me as a 
pilot, and will tell me what to do, and whither to go 
for provisions, and whither not to go for fear of being 
devoured ; what places tq venture into, and what to 
escape.'* I waked with this thought, and was under 
sucti inexpressible impressions of joy at tlie prospect 
of my escape in my dream, that the disappointment 
which I felt upon coming to myself, and finding that 
it was no more than a dream, were equally extravagant 
the other way, and threw rfie into^ very great dejection 
of spirit. 

Upon, this, however, I made thi§ conclusion, that 
my only way to go about an 'attempt for an escape 
was, if possible, to get a savage in my possession; 
and, if possible, it should be one of their prisoners 
whom they had condemned to be eaten, and should 
bring hither to kill : but. these thoughts still were 
attended with this difficulty, that it was impossible 
to effect this, without attacking a whole caravan of 
them, and killing them all ; and this w'as not only g. 
very ^desperate attempt, and might miscarry, but, 
on the othef hand, I had greatly scrupled the lawful- 
ness^ of it to myself, and my heart trembled at the 
thought of shedding so much blood, though it was for 
my deliverance. I jieed not repeat tjie .arguments 
which occurred ifo me against this, they being the same 
mentioned before : but though I had other reasons 
to offer now, namely, that those men were enemies 
to my life, and would devour me if they could ; that 
it was self-preservation, lA.the highest degree, to 
deliver myself from this death of a life, and was acting 
in my own defence, as much as if they were actually 
assaulting me, and the like ; I say, though these things 
argued for it, yet the thoughts of shedding human 



232 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

blood for my deliverance were very terrible to me, 
and such as could by no means reconcile myself to 
a great while. 

However, at last, after many secret disputes with 
m5^elf, and after great perplexities about it (for all 
these arguments, one way and another, struggled in 
my head a long time), the eager prevailing desire of 
deliverance at length mastered all the rest, and I 
resolved, if possible, to get one of these savages into 
my hands, cost what it would. The next thing, tUm, 
was to contrive how to do it ; and this indeed was very 
difficult to resolve on ; but as I could pitch on no 
possible me,ans for it, so 1 resolved to put myself upon 
the watch to see them whenr they came on shore, and 
leave the rest to the event, taking such measures as 
the opportunity Should present, let it be what it 
would. 

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself 
upon the scout as often as possible, and indeed, so 
often, till I was heartily tired of it ; for it was above 
a year and a half that 1 waited, and for a great part 
of that time went out to the west end and to the south- 
west comer of the island, almost every day, to see the 
qanoes, but none appeared. This was very discourag- 
ing, and began to trouble me much ; though I cannot 
say that it did in this case, as it had done some ‘time 
before that, Uamely, wear off the edge of my desire 
to thL thing ; but the longer it seeniea to be delayed, 
the more eager I was for it ; in ,a word, I was not at 
first more careful to shun the sight of these savages, 
and avoid being seen by them, than 1 was now eager 
to be upon them. 

Besides, I fancied myself able to manage one, nay, 
two or three savages, ifil'had them, so as to make 
them entirely slaves to me, to do whatever I should 
direct them, and to prevent their being able, at any 
time to do me any hurt. I was a great while that I 
pleased myself with this affair, but nothing still 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 233- 

presented ; all my fancies and schemes came to 
nothing, for no savages came near mt for a great 
while. 

About a year and a half after I had entertained these 
notions, and by long musing had, as it were, resolved 
them all into .nothing, for want of an occasion to 
put them in execution, I was surprised one morning 
early with seeing no less than five canoes all on shore 
together, on my side the island, and the people who 
belonged to them all landed, and out of my sight ; 
the number of thepi broke all my measures ; for seeing 
so many, and knowing that they always come four, 
or six, or sometimes more, in a boat, I could not tell 
what to think of it, or bow to, take anyTneasures to 
attack twenty or thirty men single-handed ; so, I lay 
still in* my castle, perplexed and discomforted ; how- 
ever, I put myself into all the same postures for an 
attack that I had formerly provided, and was just 
ready for action if anything had presented. Having 
waited a good while, listening to hear if they made 
any noise, at length, being very impatient, I set my 
guns at the foot of my ladder, and clambered up to 
the top of the hill by my two stages, as usual, standing 
so, however, that my head did not appear above t|je 
hill,^so that they could not perceive me by any means. 
Here I observed, by the help of my perspective glass, 
tlrat they were no less than thirty in number ; that 
they had a fire kindled, and they ha(J meat dressed : 
how they cooked it,.^that I knew not, 0/ wjiiat it was ; 
but they were -all .dancing in I know not how majiy 
barbarous gestures and figures, their own way, round 
the fire. • 

When I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by 
my perspective, two miserable wretches dragged from 
the boats, where, it seems, they were laid by, and 
were now brought out for the slaughter : I perceived 
one of them immediately fall, being knocked down, 
I suppose, with a club or wooden sword, for that was 



234 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

their way ; and two or three others were at work 
immediately,^ cutting him open for their cookery, 
while the other victim was left standing by himself, 
till they should be ready for him. At tha^ very 
moment, this poor wretch, seeing himself a little at 
liberty, nature inspired him with hopes of life, and he 
started away from them, and ran with incredible 
swiftness along the sands,, directly towards me — I 
mean towards the part of the coast where my habitation 
was. ' 0 

I was dreadfully frightened (that. I must acknow- 
ledge) when I perceived him to run my way, and 
especiaily when, as I thought, I saw him pursued 
by the whole body and now I expected that part 
of my dream was coming to pass, and that he would 
certainly take shelter in my grove ; but I could not 
depend, by any means; upon my dream for the rest 
of it, namely, that the other savages would not pursue 
him thither, and find him there. However, I kept 
my station, and my spirits began to recover, when I 
found that there were not above three men that followed 
him : and still more was I encouraged when I found 
that he outstripped them exceedingly in running, and 
gained ground of them — so that if he could but hold 
it for half an hour, I saw easily he would fairly get 
away from them all. ‘ 

There was ^jetween them and my castle the crodt, 
which I mentioned often at the first part of my story, 
when I landed my cargoes out of the ship, and this I 
knew he must necessarily swim tovtfr, or the poor 
wretch would be taken there : but when th©> savage 
escaping came thither, he made nothing of it, tiiough 
the tide was then up ; but plunging in, swam in about 
thirty strokes or thereabouts, landed, and ran on with 
exceeding strength and swiftness. When the three 
pursuers came to the creek, I found that two of them 
could swim, but the third could not, and that he, 
standing on the other side, looked at the other, but 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


235 * 

went no farther ; and soon after went softly back 
again, which, as it happened, was very* well for him 
in the main. 

I observed, that? the two who swam were yet more 
than twice as long swimming over the creek as the 
fellow was that fled from them. It came now very 
warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, 
that now was my time to get a servant, and perhaps 
a companion, or assistant, and that I ^was called 
pllinly by Providence to save this poor creature’s 
life. I immediately got down the ladders with all 
possible expedition, fetched my two guns, for they 
were both at the foot of the ladder, as^ I observed 
above ; and getting up dgain v#ith the same haste to 
the top of the hill, I crossed towards the sea ; and 
having* a very short cut, and all ^own hill, clapped 
myself in the way between the pursuers and the pur- 
sued, halloing aloud to him that fled, who, looking 
back, was at first perhaps as much frightened at me 
as at them ; but I beckoned with my hand to him to 
come back — and in the meantime I slowly advanced 
towards the two that followed — then rushing at once 
upon the foremost, I knocked him down with the stock 
of my piece — I was loath to fire, because I would npt 
havp the rest hear, though at that distance it would 
not have b*een .easily heard — and being out of sight of 
tfie smoke, too, they would not have* easily known 
what to make of it. Having knocked this fellow ^own, 
the other who pursued him stopped, as. if he had been 
frightened, ana I tidvanced apace towards him ; but 
as I cjftne nearer, I perceived presently he had a bow 
and arrow, and was fitting it to shoot at me ; so I was 
then necessitated to shoot at him first, which I did, 
and killed him at the first Shot. The poor savage who 
fled, but had stopped, though he saw both his enemies 
fallen, and killed (as he thought), yet was so frightened 
with the fire and noise of my piece, that he stood stock- 
still, and neither came forward nor went backward, 



•236 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

though he seemed rather inclined to fly still than to 
come OIL I ^hallooed again to him, and made signs 
to come forward, which he easily understood, and 
came a little way, then stopped again, and t^en a 
little farther,^ and stopped again ; and I could then 
perceive that he stood trembling, as if he had been 
taken prisoner, and had just been to be killed, as his 
two enemies were. I beckoned him again to come to 
me, and gave him all tlie signs of encouragement that 
I could think of ; and he came nearer and neartr, 
kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in token 
of acknowledgment for saving his life. I smiled at 
him, and lopked pleasantly, and beckoned to him to 
come still nearer. At<?engthiie came close to me, and 
then he kneeled down again, kissed the ground, and 
laid his head upon‘*the ground, and, taking me -by the 
foot, set my foot upon his head. Tliis, it seems, was 
in token of swearing to be my slave for ever, I took 
him up, and made much of him, and encouraged him 
all I could. But there was more work to do yet ; for 
I perceived the savage whom I knocked down was not 
killed, but stunned with the blow, and began to come 
to himself : so I pointed to him, and showed him the 
sq vage, that he was not dead ; upon this he spoke 
some words to me, and though I could not understand 
them, yet I thought they were pleasapt to hear, for 
they were the* first sound of a man's voice that I hSd 
heard; my own .-excepted, for above five-and-tweirty 
years. But- there was no time, for such reflections 
now ; the savage, who was knocked dbwn, recovered 
himself so far as to sit up upon the ground ; • and I 
perceived that my savage b^an to be afraid ; but 
when I saw that. I presented my other piece at the 
man, as if I would shoot ^him : upon this my savage, 
for so I called liim now, made a motion to me to lend 
him my sw’ord, which hung naked in a belt by my side 
— so I did : he no sooner had it, but he runs to his 
enemy, and at one blow cuts off his head so cleverly. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE ' 237 - 

no executioner in Germany could have done it sooner 
or better, which 1 thought very strangeifor one who, 
I had reason to believe, never saw a sword in his life 
befor^, except their own wooden swords : however, 
it seems, as I learned. afterwards, they make their 
wooden swords, so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is 
so hard that they will cut off heads even with them — 
ay, and arms, and that at one blow too. When he 
had done this, he comes laughing to me in sign of 
tr>imph, and brought me the sword again, and, with 
abundance of gestures, which I did not understand, 
laid it down, with the head of the savage that he had 
killed, just before me. . 

But that which astonished hjm most ^fas, to know 
how I had killed the other Indian so far oh ; so, point- 
ing to him, he made signs to me todet him go to him ; 
so I bade him go, as well as I could. When he came 
to him, he stood like one amazed, looking at him — 
turned him first on one side, then on the other — 
looked at the wound the bullet had made, which, it 
seems, was just in his br^t, where it made a hole, 
and no great quantity of blood had followed ; but he 
had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead. Then he 
took up his bow and arrows, and came back ; so I 
turned to go away, and beckoned him to follow rile, 
mailing sigiis to him that more might come after 
him. 

•Upon this he signed to me that, he should bury 
them with sand, that they might not^be^seen by the 
rest, if they followe*d ; and so 1 made signs agaiq to 
him to do so. He fell to work, and in an instant he 
had scraped a hole in, the sand with his hands, big 
enough to bury the first in, and then dragged him into 
it, and covered him, and«did so also by the other ; 
I believe he had buried them both in a quarter of an 
hour : then calling him away, I carried him not to 
my castle, but quite away to my cave, on the farther 
part of the island ; so 1 did not let my dream come to 



^238 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

pass in that part, namely, that he came into my grove 
for shelter. % 

Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to 
eat, and a draught of water, which I found he. was, 
indeed, in great distress forp by his running and, 
having refreshed him, I made signs for him to go lie 
down and sleep, pointing to a place where I had laid 
a great parcel of rice-straw, and a blanket upon it, 
which I used to sleep upon myself sometimes ; so 
the poor creature lay down, and went to sleep. 

He was a comely, handsome fellpw, perfectly well 
made, with straiglit, long limbs, not too large, tall, 
and well shaped, and, as I reckon, about twenty-six 
years of ag^. He ha<j a very good countenance, not 
a fierce and surly aspect, but seemed to have something 
very manly in his ' face, and yet he had all tliQ sweet- 
ness and softness of an European in his countenance, 
too, especially when he smiled : his hair was long and 
black, not curled like wool ; his forehead very high 
and large, and a great vivacity and sparkling sharp- 
ness in his eyes. The coloi\j: of his skin was not quite 
black, but very tawny, and yet not of an ugly yellow 
nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians, and Virginians, 
and other natives of America are, but of a bright kind 
oi a dun olive colour, that had in it something very 
agreeable, though not very easy to describe. ' His 
face was round and plump, his nose small, not flat like 
the negroes, a very good mouth, thin lips, and his teeth 
fine, well set, and white as ivory. After he had slum- 
be^^ed, rather ' than slept, above rhalf an hour, he 
waked again, and comes out of the cave to me, for I 
had been milking my goats, ^which I had in the en- 
closure just by : when he espied me, he came running 
to me, laying himself dqv/h again upon the ground, 
with all the possible signs of an humble, thankful 
disposition, making many antic gestures to shew it. 
At last he lays his head flat upon the ground, close 
to my foot, and sets my other foot upon his bead, as 



ROBINSON CRUSOE * 239. 

he had done before ; and, after this, he made all the 
signs to me of subjection, servitude, aryl submission 
imaginable, to let me know how much he would serve 
me as long as he^lived. I understood him in many 
thin^, and let him know 1 was very well pleased with 
him. In a little, time I began to speak to him, and teach 
him to speak to me ; and, first, I made him know his 
name should be Friday, which was the day I saved 
his life, and I called Jiin! so for the memory of the 
tiiiie : I likewise taught him to say Master, and then 
let him know that was to be my name ; I likewise 
taught him to say* Yes and No, and to know the mean- 
ing of them. I gave him some milk in an eartijen pot, 
and let him see me drink it before him, ^nd sop my 
bread in it ; and I gave him a Ake of bread to do the 
like, which he quickly complied wUh, and made signs 
that it was very good for him. 

I kept there with him all that night ; but as soon 
as it was day I beckoned him to come with me, and 
let him know I would give him some clothes, at which 
he seemed very glad, for he was stark naked. As we 
went by the place where he had buried the two men, 
he pointed exactly to the spot, and showed me the 
marks that he had made to find them again, making 
signs to me that we should dig them up again and ^t 
thefti : at •this I appeared very angry, expressed my 
abhorrence of* it, made as if 1 would, vomit at the 
thoughts of it, and beckoned with my hand him 
to come away, which he did immediately, with great 
submission. I.th^*led him up to the'top of the hill, 
to see, if his enemies were gone, and pulling out my 
glass, I looked, and saw plainly the place where they 
had been, but no appearance of them or of their canoes, 
so that it was plain that they were gone, and had left 
their two comrades behind them, without any search 
after them. 

But I was not content wdth this discovery : but. 
having now more courage, and, consequently, more 



/240 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

curiosity, I took my man Friday with me, giving him 
the sword inthis hand, with the bow and arrows at 
his back, which I found he could use very dexterously, 
making him carry one gun for me, and I two for myself, 
and away we marched to the. place where these crea- 
tures had been ; for I had a mind now to get some 
fuller intelligence of them. When I came to the place, 
my very blood ran chill in my veins, and my heart 
sank within me, at the horror of the spectacle : indeed, 
it was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to me, thou\^h 
Friday made nothing of it ; the place was covered 
with human bones, the ground dyed with the blood, 
great pieces of flesh left here and there, half eaten, 
mangled, an'd scorched ; and, in short, all the tokens 
of the triumphant feast they had been making there 
after a victory ove/ their enemies. I saw three, skulls, 
five hands, and the bones of three or four legs and 
feet, and abundance of other parts of the bodies ; and 
Friday, by his signs, made me understand that they 
brought over four prisoners to feast upon ; that three 
of them were eaten up and that he, pointing to himself, 
was the fourth ; that there had been a great battle 
between them and their next king, whose subjects, 
it seems, he had been one of ; and that they had taken 
a great number of prisoners, all which were carried to 
several places by those that had taken them in' the 
fight, in order ‘to feast upon them, as was done here by 
these •wretches \ipon those they brought hither. 

I caused , Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, 
fie^h, and w^hatever remained, and day- them together 
on a heap, and make a great fire upon it, and bum 
them all to ashes. I found Friday had stih a hankering 
stomach after some of the flesh, and was still a canni- 
bal in his nature ; but I discovered so much abhorrence 
at the very thoughts of it, and at the least appear- 
ance of it, that he durst not discover it ; for 1 had, 
by some means, let him know that I would kill him 
if he offered it. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE * 241. 

When we had done this, we came back to our castle, 
and there I fell to work for my man J^riday : and, 
first of all, I gave him a pair of linen drawers, which 
I had out of the ppor gunner's chest I mentioned, and 
which I found in the w^eck ; and which, with a little 
alteration, fitted him very well ; then I made him a 
jerkin of goat’s skin, as well as my skill would allow, 
and I was now grown a tolerably good tailor ; and I 
gave him a cap, whicji T had made of a hare’s skin, 
v(iry convenient, and fashionable enough*; and thus 
he was dressed, for the present, tolerably well, and 
mighty well was Tie pleased to see himself almost as 
well clothed as his master. It is true, he wept awk- 
wardly in these things ai first ; wearing* the drawers 
was very awkward to him, afid the sleeves of the 
waistepat galled his shoulders and the inside of his 
arms ; but a little easing them where he complained 
they hurt him, and using himself to them, at length 
he took to them very well. 

The next day after I came home to my hutch with 
him, I began to consider where 1 should lodge him ; 
and that I might do well for him, and yet be perfectly 
easy myself, I made a little tent for him in the vacant 
23lace betw’een my two fortifications, in the inside of 
the last, and in the outside of the first ; and as thSte 
was* a doo» or entrance there into my cave, 1 made a 
fc’-mal framed* door-case, and a door to it of boards, 
and set it up in the passage, a little within the entrance; 
and, causing the door to open on the* inside, I barred 
it up in the night, tkking in my ladders too : so that 
Friday, could no way come at me in the inside of my 
innermost wall, withoyt making so much noise in 
getting over, that it must needs awaken me ; for my 
first wall had now a complhtp roof over it of long poles, 
covering aU my tent, and leaning up to the side of 
the hill, which was again laid across with small sticks 
instead of laths, and then thatched over a great thick- 
ness with rice straw, which was strong like reeds ; 



.242 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

and at the hole or place which was left to go in or out 
by the ladder^, I had placed a kind of trap-door, which 
if" it had been attempted on the outside, would not 
have opened at all, but would havg fallen down, and 
made a great noise ; and as tp weapons, I took them 
all into my side every night. 

But I needed none of all this precaution : for never 
man had a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than 
Friday was to me ; without passions, sullenness, or 
designs ; perfectly obliging and engaging, his vwy 
affections were tied to me like those of a child to a 
father , and I dare say he would have sacrificed his 
life for,, the saving mine upon any occasion what- 
soever : the* many testimonies he gave me of this put 
it out of doubt, and s6on convinced me, that I needed 
to use no precautions as to my safety on his account. 

This frequently gave, me occasion to observe, and 
that with wonder, that how^ever it 'had pleased God 
in His providence, and in the government of the works 
of His hands, to take from so great a part of the world 
of His creatures the best uses to which their faculties 
and the powers of their souls are adapted ; yet that 
He has bestowed upon them the same powers, the 
same reason, the same affections, the same sentiments 
of kindness and obligation, the same passions and 
resentments of wrongs, the same sense of gratitude, 
sincerity, fidelity and all the capacities' of doing good, 
and receiving good, that He has given to us ; and that, 
when He pleases to offer them occasions of exerting 
th^e, they' arfe as ready, nay, riiop e ready to apply, 
thtei to the right uses, for which they are bestowed, 
than we are. And this made me very melancholy 
sometimes, in reflecting, as ' the several occasions 
presented, how mean a u^e^we make of all these, even 
though we have these powers enlightened by the 
great laipip of instruction, the Spirit of God, and by the 
knowledge of His word, added to our understanding ; 
and wh}^ it has pleased God to hide the like saving 



ROBINSON CRUSOE * 243. 

knowledge from so many millions of souls, who, if I 
might judge by this poor savage, would jnake a much 
better use of it than we did. 

From hence I spme times was led too far to invade 
the sovereignty of Providence, and, as it w'ere, arraign 
the justice of sp arbitrary a disposition of things, that 
should hide that light from some, and rcveS it to 
others, and yet expect a like duty from both ; but I 
shut it up, and checked ‘my thoughts with this con- 
clusion — first, that we do not know by -what light 
and law these should be condemned ; but that as God 
is necessarily, and* by the nature of His being, infinitely 
holy and just, so it could not be but that if these 
creatures were all sentenced to absence fit>m Himself, 
it was on account of sinning agSinst that lights which, 
as the.Scripture says, was a law to ithemselves, and by 
such rules as their consciences would acknowledge to 
be just, though the foundation was not discovered to 
us : and, secondly, that still, as we are all clay in the 
hand of the potter, no vessel could say to Him, ** Why 
hast thou formed me thup ? 

But to return to my new companion. I was greatly 
delighted with him, and made it my business to teach 
him everything that W2is proper to make himself useful, 
handy and helpful, but especially to make him speaJk, 
and* understand me when I spoke : and he was the 
aptest scholar 'that ever was ; and particularly was 
sa merry, so constantly diligent, and so pleased^when 
he could but understand me, or make me understand 
him, that it was \efy pleasant to me to falk to him. 
And ngw my life began to be so easy, that I began to 
SfcLy to myself, that coijld I but have been safe from 
more savages, I cared not if I was never to remove 
from the place where I li\^ 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


.244 


CHAPTER XV 

I civilise Friday — He considers my giin an intelligent 
Being — Begins to talk English — A Dialogue — I in- 
struct him in Religion — He describes some White 
Men who still lived in his Country. 

After I had been two or three days returned to my 
castle, I thought, that in order to bring Friday Off 
from his horrid way of feeding, and from the relish 
of a cannibal’s stomach. I ought to let him taste 
other Fesh ; so I took him out with me one morning 
to the woods. I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid 
out of my own flock, and bring it home and dress it ; 
but as I was going, I saw a she -goat lying down in 
the shade, and two young kids sitting by her. I 
catched hold of Friday : “ Hold," said I, " stand still;" 
and made signs to him not to stir. Immediately I 
presented my piece, shot, and killed one of the kids. 
The poor creature, who had at a distance indeed seen 
me kill the savage his enemy, but did not know, nor 
could imagine how it was done, was sensibly surprised, 
trembled and shook, and looked so amazed, that I 
thought he would have sunk down : he did not see 
the kid I had shot at, or perceived I had killed it; but 
ripped up his waistcoat to feel if he wa.s not wounded ; 
and, •as I found presently, thought I was resolved* to 
kill him, for be came and kneeled down to me, and 
embracing my knees, said a great ^maaiy things I did 
not understand ; but I could easily see that his mean- 
ing was to pray me not to kilhhim. 

I soon found a way to convince him that I would 
do him no harm ; and taking him up by the hand, 
laughed at him, and pointing to the kid which I had 
killed, beckoned him to run and fetch it, which he 
did ; and while he was wondering and looking to see 
how the creature was killed, I loaded my gun again. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE ' 245. 

and by-arid-by I saw a great fowl, like a hawk, sit 
upon a tree within shot ; so to let Fridjjy understand 
a little what I would do, I called him to me again, 
pointing at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, 
though I thought it had, been a haw^k— I say, pointing 
to the parrot, and to my gun, and to the ground under 
the parrot, to let him see I would make him fall, I 
made him understand that I would shoot and kill 
that bird ; accordingly, *I fired, and bid him look, 
arAi immediately he saw the parrot hill. stood like 
one frighted agafn, notwithstanding all that I had 
said to him ; and 1 found he was the more puzzled, 
because he did not see me put anything into the gun, 
but thought there must* be some wondef-ful fund of 
death and destruction in that tning, able to kill man, 
beast,. bird or anything, near and far off; for the. 
astonishment this created in*him was such as could 
not wear off for a long time ; and I believe, if I would 
have let him, he would have worshipped me and my 
gun. As for the gun itself, he would not so much as 
touch it for sever^ days after, but wouM- speak to it, 
and talk to it, as if it had answered him, when he was 
by himself ; which, as I afterwards learned of him, 
was to desire it not to kill him. 

Well, after his astonishment was a little over at 
this* I poiiTted to him to run and fetch the bird I had 
shot, which he did, but stayed some time ; for the 
pgttTOt, not being quite dead, had flutt^ed a goed-way 
off from the place where she fell ; hov^ev^r, he found 
her, took her up, £ind brought her to me ; and as I 
had porceived his ignorance about the gun before, 
i'^took this advantage ta charge the gun again, and not 
let him see me do it, that I might be ready for any 
other mark that might f^-esent ; but nothing else 
offered at that time : so I brought home the kid ; 
and the same evening I took the skin off, and cut it 
out as well as I could, and having a pot for that pur- 
pose. I boded or stewed some of the flesh, and made 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


S46 

some very good broth. After I had begun to eat some, 
1 gave some "^o my man, who seemed very glad of it, 
and liked it very well ; but that which was strangest 
to him was, to see me cat salt with it. He made a 
sign to me that the salt was., not good to eat and 
putting a little into his own mouth,* he seemed to 
nauseate it, and would spit and s^nitter at it, washing 
his mouth with fresh water after it. On the other 
hand, I took some meat in my mouth without salt, 
and I pretended to spit and sputter for want of saSt, 
as fast as he had done at the salt ; but it would not 
do, he would never care for salt with meat, or in his 
broth ; -at least not a great wliile, and then but a very 
little. , 

Haviijg thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, 
I was resolved to feast him the next day with roasting 
a piece of the kid : this •! did by hanging it before the 
lire in a string, as I had seen many people do in England, 
setting two poles up, one on each side of a fire, and one 
cross on the top, and tying the string to the cross 
stick, letting the meat run continually : this Friday 
admired very much ; but when he came to taste the 
flesh, he took so many ways to teU me how well he 
liked it, that I could not but understand him ; and 
at last he told me he would never eat man's flesh any 
more, which I was very glad to hear. ' 

The next day I set him to work to beating some 
corn Gut, and sifting it in the manner I used to do, as 
I observed before ; and he soon understood how to 
do -it as well as I, especially after .he ihad seen what 
the meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread 
of ; for after that I let him see me make my bread, 
and bake it too ; and in a little time Friday was able 
to do all the work for mes as well as I could do it 
myself. 

I began now to consider, that, having two mouths 
to feed instead of one, I must provide more ground for 
my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn than 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


247 

I used to do ; so I marked out a larger piece of land, 
and began the fence in the same manner as before, 
in which Friday not only worked very willingly and 
very^hard, but did it very cheerfully ; and I told him 
what it was for, that it was for com to make more 
bread, because. he was now with me, and that I might 
have enough for him and myself too : he appeared 
very sensiWe of that part, and let me know that he 
thought I had mucb more labour upon me on his 
account than I had for myself, and theft he would 
work the harder, for me, if I would tell him what 
to do. 

This was the pleasantest year of all the life J led in 
this place. Friday began 4o talkj)retty wefl, and under- 
stood the names of almost everything I had-eccasi*on‘ 
to call for, and of every place I fftid to send him to, 
and talk a great deal to me ; eo that, in short, I began 
now to have some use for my tongue again, which 
indeed I had very little occasion for before — that is 
to say, about speech. Besides the pleasure of talking 
to him, I had a singular satisfaction in the fellow him- 
self : his simple unfeigned honesty appeared to me 
more and more every day, and I began really to love 
the creature ; and on his side, I believe, he loved me 
more than ever it was possible for him ever to l^e 
anything before. 

I had a mind once to try if he had <iny hankering 
inclination to his own country agajn ; and having 
learned him English so vrell, that he cpul^ answer me 
almost any quastians, I asked him, whether the nation 
that he belonged to never conquered in battle ? At 
^l^hich he smiled, and. said, ** Yes, yes, we always 
fight the better ” — that is, he meant, always get 
the better in fight — and* we began the following 
discourse : “You always fight the better ! “ said 1 : 
“ how came you to be taken prisoner, then, 
Friday ? ” 

Friday — My nation beat much for all that. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


Master — How beat ? If your nation beat them, 
how came you to be taken ? 

Friday — They more than my nation in the place 
where me was they take one, two, three, and me : 
my nation overbeat them in .the yonder place, where 
me no was ; there my nation take one, two, great 
thousand. 

Master — But why did not your side recover you 
from the hands of your enemies, then ? 

Friday — They run, one, two, three, and me, and mSke 
go in the canoe ; my nation have no canoe that time. 

Master — Well, Friday, and what does your nation 
do with the men they take ? Do they carry them away, 
and eat them as these, did ? « 

Fridsy — ^Yes, my nation cat mans too, eat all up. 

Master — Where -do they carry them ? 

Friday — Go to otlier^pface where. they think. 

Master — Do they come hither ? 

Friday — Yes, yes, they come hither ; come ather 
else place. 

Master — IlAve yon been here with them ? 

Friday — Yes, 1 have been here [points to the north- 
west side of the island, which, it seems, was their 
s;de]. 

By this I understood, that my man Friday had 
formerly been among the savages who ustid to come 
on shore on the farther part of the island, on the said 
man-eating occasions that he was now brought for ; 
and some time, after, when I took the courage to carry 
him to that side, being the same I fomrerly mentioned, 
he presently knew the place, and told me, he wrjs there 
once, when they ate up twenty men, two women, a£cl 
one child : he could not tell twenty in English, but 
he numbered them by laying so many stones in a 
row, and pointing to me to tell them over. 

I have told this passage because it introduces what 
follows ; that after I had had this discourse with him, I 
asked him how far it was from our island to the shore. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 249* 

and whether the canoes were not often lost — he told 
me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost ; but 
that after a little way out to sea, there was a current 
and a wind always one way in the morning, the other 
in the afternoon. • 

This I understood to be no more than the sets of 
the tide, as going out, or coming in ; but I afterwards 
understood it was occasipned by the great draught 
an^ reflux of the mfghty river Oroonoque, in the 
mouth of which river, as 1 thought afterwards, our 
island lay ; and that this land which I perceived to the 
west and north-west, was the great island Trinidad, 
on the north point of the mouth of the ri'^er. f asked 
Friday a thousand questions about the country, the. 
inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and what natiO^iT were 
near—Aie told me all he knew with* the greatest open- 
ness imaginable. I asked him the names of the several 
nations of his sort of people, but could get no other 
name than Caribs ; from whence J easily understood, 
that these were the Caribbees, which our n^aps place 
' on that part of America which reaches frofh the mouth 
of the river Oroonoque to Guinea, and onwards to 
St. Martha. He told me, that up a great way beyond 
the moon — that was, beyond the setting of the moqjn, 
whiqh must be west from their country — there dwelt 
white-bearded pien, like me, and pointed to my great 
whiskers, which I mentioned before ; dnd that they 
had killed much mans — that was his word — by Miich 
I understood he mea/it the Spaniards, whose cruelties 
in America had* been spread over the whole countries, 
^md were remembered by ail the nations from father 
to son. • 

I inquired if he could telj me how I might come from 
this island, and get among*those white men ; he told 
me, “ Yes, yes, 1 might go into two canoe.*’ I could 
not understand what he meant by two canoe ; till 
at last, with great difficulty, I found he meant, that 
it must be in a large great boat as big as two canoes. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


^50 

This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with 
me very wellu; and from this time I entertained some 
hopes, that one time or other I might find an oppor- 
tunity to make my escape from this place, and that 
this poor savage might be a- means to help me to 
do it. 

During the long time that Friday liad now been with 
me, and that he began to speak to me, and understand 
me, I was not wanting to la\^ a foundation of religious 
knowledge in his mind ; particularly I asked him one 
time. Who made him ? Tlie poor- creature did not 
understand me at all, but thought I had asked who was 
his father ; , but I took it by another handle, and 
asked him. Who made the sea, the ground he wallted 
on, arid d:he hills and woods ? He told me it was one 
old Benamuckee, That lived beyond all : he could 
describe nothing of this ‘great person, but that he was 
very old — much older, he said, than the sea or the land, 
than the moon or the stars. I asked him then, if this 
old person had made all things, why did not all things 
worship hiih^? He looked* very grave, and, with a 
perfect look of innocence, said. All things said 0 ! to 
him. I asked him if the people v^ho die in his country 
\vent away anywhere ? He said. Yes, they all went 
to Benamuckee. Then I asked him, whether those 
they eat up went thither too ? He said, Yes. 

From these’ things I began to instruct him in the 
knowledge of the true God. I told him, that the griiat 
Maker of aU things lived there, pointing up towards 
heaven ; that He governs the world by the same 
power and providence by which He made it ; that Hp 
was omnipotent, could do crverything for us, gi^e 
e^rerything to us, take everything from us : and thus, 
by degrees, I opened his eyes. He listened with great 
attention, and received with pleasure the notion of 
Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and of the manner 
of making our prayers to God, and His being able to 
hear us. even in heaven : he told me one day, that if 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 25P 

our God could hear us up beyond the sun, He must 
needs be a greater god than their Benaimuckee, who 
lived but a little way off, and yet could not hear, till 
they^ent up to the great mountains, where he dwelt, 
to speak to him. I asked him if ever he went thither 
to speak to him ? He said. No, they never went that 
were young men ; none went thither but the old men, 
whom they called tlieir Oowookakee ; that is, as I 
made him explain it to me, their religious or clergy ; 
anft that they went to say O ! (so he called saying 
prayers), and theji came back, and told them what 
Benamuckee said. By this I observed, that there is 
priestcraft even among the most blinded ignorant 
Pagans in the world; and thg policy of making a^ 
secret of religion, in order to preserve the voKifTation* 
of the.people to the clergy, is to be found among all 
religions in the world, even among the most brutish 
and barb<irous savages. 

I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man 
Friday, and told him, that the pretence of their old 
* men going up to the mountains to sajT^ f to their 
god Benamuckee, was a cheat ; and their bringing 
word from thence what he said, was much more so ; 
that if they met with, any answer, or spoke with ajjy 
one there, it must be with an evil spirit ; and then I 
entered intb a long discourse with him about the devil, 
the original ol him, his rebellion against God, his 
enmity to man, the reason of it, his, setting himself 
up in the dark parts of the world to, be, worshipped 
instead of God, •and as God, and the many stratagems 
he made use of to delude mankind to their ruin ; how 
hi had a secret access to our passions and to our 
affections, to adapt his snares so to our inclinations 
as to cause us even to be ‘our own tempters, and to 
run upon our own destruction by our own choice. 

I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions 
in his mind about the devil, as it was about the being 
of a God : nature assisted aU my arguments to evidence 



^252 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

to him even the necessity of a great First Cause, 
and overruling governing Power, a secret directing 
Providence, and of the equity and justice of paying 
homage to Him that made us, and the like ; but there 
appeared nothing of all this m the notion of ah evil 
spirit, of his original, his being, his nature, and, above 
all, of his inclination to do evil, and to draw us in to 
do so too : and the poor creature puzzled me once in 
such a manner, by a question merely natural and 
innocent, that I scarce knew what to say to him. ^ 

I had been talking a great deal to him of the power 
of God, His omnipotence, His dreadful aversion to sin. 
His being a consuming fire to the workers of iniquity ; 
how, as He 'had made us all,. He could destroy us, and 
all ths*T.!iiorld, in a moment : and he listened with great 
seriousness to me all the while. After this, I had been 
telling him how the devil was God's enemy in the hearts 
of men, and used all his malice and skill to defeat the 
good designs of Providence, and to min the kingdom 
of Christ in the world, and the like. “ Well," says 
Friday, ‘ bii^ you say Go<J is so strong, so great, is • 
He not much strong, much might, as the devil ? " 
“ Yes, yes,*' said I, Friday, God is stronger than the 
devil ; God is above the devil ; . and therefore we pray 
tS God to tread him under our feet, and enable iis to 
resist his temptations, and quench his fiery darts.** 
But,” says ^ he, again, “if God much strong, much 
miglkt, as the ^evil, why God not kill the devU.^so 
make him no more wicked ? *' 

J was strangely surprised at his q^ies^ion ; and, after 
all, though I was now an old man, yet I was but a 
young doctor, and ill enougtt qualified for a casui^^, 
or a solver of difficulties ; and, at first, I could not tell 
what to say: so I pretpxded not to hear him, and 
asked him what he said ? But he w^as too earnest for 
an answer to forget his question, so that he repeated 
it in the vei*y same broken words as above. By this 
time I had recovered myself a little, and I said, “ God 



ROBINSON CRUSOE * «53 

will at last punish hiin severely, he is reserved for the 
judgiu»jut, and is to be cast into the bottomless pit 
to dwell with everlasting fire." This did not satisfy 
Frid^ ; but he rej-ums upon me, repeating my words, 
“ Reserve at last I me n^ undeistand : but why not kill 
the devil now. oot kill great ago ?" " You may as well 
ask me," said I, " why God does not kill you and me, 
when we do wicked things here that offend Him : we 
are preserved to repenx and be pardoned." He muses 
a !vhile at this. " Well, well," says he, mighty affec- 
tionately, “ that ,well : so you, I, devil, wicked, 
all preserve, repent, God pardon all." Here I was run 
down again by him to the last degree, and it was a 
testimony to rne, how the mere notions of nature, 
though tliey will guide reasonable creatures to tte^aiow-*" 
ledge of a God, and of a worshipper homage due to 
the supreme being of God, as. the consequence of our 
nature, yet nothing but divine revelation can form 
the knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of a redemption 
purchased for us ; of a Mediator ; of a new covenant ; 

* and of an Intercessor at the footstool oMidd’s throne 
— I say, nothing but a revelation from Heaven can 
form these in the soul ; and that therefore the Gospel 
of our Lord and Sayiour Jesus Christy mean the 
Word of God, and the Spirit of God, promised for fhe 
guide and •sanctifier of His people, are the absolutely 
necessary instAictors of the souls of men in the saving 
knowledge of God, and the means of salvation. — 

I therefore diverted the present discourse between 
me and my man, fising up hastily, *as" upon some 
sudden, occasion of going out; theii sending him*for 
sHimething a great way pff, I seriously prayed to God, 
that he would enable me to instruct savingly this 
poor savage, assisting, by^fifs Spirit, the heart of the 
poor ignorant creative to receive the light of the 
knowledge of God in Christ, reconciling him to Himself, 
and would guide me to speak so to him from the Word 
of God, as his conscience might, be convinced, his eyes 



254 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

opened, and his soul saved. When he came again to 
me, I entered into a long discourse with him upon 
the subject of the redemption of man by the Saviour 
of the world ; and of the doctrine of the Gospel 
preached from heaven, namely, of repentance towards 
God, and faith in our blessed Lord Jesus : I then 
explained to him, as well as I could, why our blessed 
Redeemer took not on Him the nature of angels but 
the seed of Abraham, and how 5 for that reason, the 
fallen angels had no share in the redemption ; that 
He came only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, 
and the like. 

I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge 
in all the riiethods I, took for this poor creature's 
mstfucirien ; and must acknowledge, what I believe 
all that act upon the same principle will find, that in 
laying things open to him, I really informed and 
instructed myself in many things that either I did not 
know, or had not fully considered before, but which 
occurred naturally to my mind upon my searching 
into them kfi the information of this poor savage : 
and I had more affection in my inquiry after things 
upon this occasion than ever I felt before ; so that, 
whether thi® 'poor wild wretch was the better for me 
or no, I had great reason to be thankful that ever he 
came to me. My grief sat lighter upon me^ my habi- 
tation grew comfortable to me beyond measure ; and 
wheiKl reflected, that in this solitary life, which I had 
been confined to, I had not only been moved myself, 
to look up to Heaven, and to seek, to the hand that 
brought me thither, but was now to be made an*»instru- 
ment, under Providence, to .save the life, and, f«5r 
aught I knew, the soul, of a poor savage, and bring 
him to the true knowledge of religion and of the 
Christian Doctrine, that he might know Jesus Christ, 
ter know whom is life eternal — I say, when I reflected 
upon all these things, a secret joy ran through every 
part oi my sou), and I frequently rejoiced that ever 



ROBINSON CRUSOE ' 255 

I was brought to this place, which I had often thought 
the most dreadful of all afflictions that could possibly 
have befallen me. 

In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder 
of nly time ; and the conversation which employed 
the hours between Friday and me was such as made 
the three years which we lived there together per- 
fectly and completely happy, if any such thing as 
complete happiness can be found in a sublunary state, 
T-fce savage was now a good Christian, a niuch better 
than T ; though I have reason to hope, and bless God 
for it, that we wferc equally penitent, and comforted, 
restored penitents. We had here the word ^of God 
to read, and no farther o/{ from His Spirit to instruct 
than if we had been in England. , 

I always applied myself to reading the Scripture, 
and to let him know, as well ^ as I could, the meaning 
of what I read ; and he again, by his serious inquiries 
and questions, made me, as I said before, a much 
better scholar in the Scripture knowledge, than I 
should ever have been by my own piij4p.te reading. 
Another thing I cannot refrain from observing here 
also from experience, in this retired part of my life, 
namely, how infinite and inexpressibleablessinf* it 
is, that the knowledge of God, and of tBfttoctrine^f 
salvation by Christ Jesus, is so plainly laid down in 
the word of God, so easy to be received a^d understood, 
tl\at as the bare reading the Scripture made me enable 
of understanding enough of my duty to carry me 
directly on to^the great work of sincere repentance 
for my sins, and laying hold of a Saviour for life ind 
c^alvation, to a stated reformation of practice, and 
obedience to all GodV commands, and this without 
any teacher or instructoF (I mean human) ; so the 
plain instruction sufficiently served to the enlighten- 
ing. this savage creature, and bringing him to be such 
a Christian as I have known few equal to him in my 
life. 



,256 ' ROBINSON CRUSOE 

As to the disputes, WTanglings, strife, and contention 
which have happened in the world about religion, 
whether niceties in doctrines, or schemes of church 
government, they were all perfectly useless to us, as, 
for aught I can yet see, they have been to all tho rest 
in the world. We had the' sure guide to heaven, 
namely, the Word of God ; and we had, blessed be 
God ! comfortable views of the Spirit of God, teaching 
and instructing us by His word, leading us into all 
truth, and, making us both willing and obedient^ to 
the instruction of His word ; and I cannot see the least 
use that the greatest knowledge of the disputed points 
in religion, which have made such confusions in the 
world, would have been to us^ if we could have obtained 
it. -Rut,! must go on ',dth the historical part of things, 
and take every pa^t in its order. 

After Friday and I became more intimately ac- 
quainted, and that he’ could understand almost all 
I said to him, and speak fluently, though in broken 
English, to me, I acquainted him with my own story, 
or at least much of it as related to my coming into 
the jilace, how I had lived there, and how long : I let 
him into the mystery (for such it was to him) of gun- 
powder and bullets, and taught him how to shoot : 
Fgave him a Knife, which he was wonderfully delighted 
with ; and I made him a belt with a frog, hanging to 
it, such as iq England we wear hangers in ; and in 
thejjog, instead of a hanger, I gave him a hatchet, 
which was not only as good a weapon in some cases, 
but much more useful upon many occasions. 

I described to him the countries of Europe, and 
particularly England, which I came from ; now 
lived, how we worshipped God, how we behaved to 
one another, and how we. traded in ships to all the 
parts of the world. I gave him an account of the 
wreck which I had been on board of, and showed him, 
as near as I could, the place where she lay ; but she 
was all beaten in pieces long before, and quite gone. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE * 257. 

T showed hmi the ruins of our boat, wliich we lost 
when we escaped, and which I could not stir with my 
whole strength then, but was now fallen 'almost all to 
pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood musing a 
great* while, and said nothing ; I asked him what it 
was he studied upon ? At last, says he, “ Me see such 
boat like come lo place at my nation/' 

I did not understand him a good while ; but at 
last, when 1 had examined •further into it, 1 imderstood 
by ^ him that a boat, such as that had been, came on 
shore upon the country where he lived — that is, as 
he explained it, was driven thither by stress of weather. 
I presently imagined that some European ship must 
have been cast away upon their coast, asnd the boat 
might get loose, and drive ashdre ; but was^sf^ 
that 1 never once thought of men i?»aking escape from 
a wreck thither, much less why 1 ice they might come — 
so I only inquired after a description of the 
boat. 

Friday described the boat to me well enough ; but 
•brought me better to understand him, wiF« 4 ie added, 
with some warmth, **We*save the wliite mans from 
drown." llieii I presently asked him, if there were 
any white mans, as he called them, in thc jyat ? ' * Ves,' 
he said, " the boat full of white mans." jTaSRTd hiJfi, 
how ’many ^ He told upon his fingers seventeen. I 
asked him, whjft became of them ? He told me, " They 
livp, they dwell at my nation." 

This put new thoughts into my head again ; for I 
presently imagyied, • that these mighf b*e the men 
belonging to the ship that was cast away in sight *of 
litf island, as I now called it ; and who, after the ship 
was struck on the rock* and they saw her inevitably 
lost, had saved themselves ^in their boat, and were 
landed upon tliat wild shore* among the savages. 

Upon this I inquired of him more critically, what 
was become of them ? He assured me they lived still 
there, that they had been thfre about four years, 



258 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

that the savages let them 'alone, and gave them vic- 
tuals to live, I asked him how it came to pass the}^ did 
not kill them, and eat them ? lie said, “ No, they 
make brother with them " — that his, as I understood 
him, a truce : and then he added, ** They eat no ‘mans 
but when make the war fight " — that is to say, they 
never eat any men but such as come to fight with them, 
and are taken in battle. 

It was after this some considerable time, that being 
on the top of the hill, at the east side of the islaitd, 
from whence, as I have said, I had in a clear day dis- 
covered the main or continent of 'America, Friday, 
the weather being very serene, looks very earnestly 
towards the mainland, and, m a kind of surprise, falls 
•a pisaping and dancing, and calls out to me, for I was 
at some distance ^rom him : I asked him what was 
the matter ? ** Oh, joy ! " says he, “ oh, glad f there 
see my country, there my nation 1 ” 

I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure 
appeared in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and his 
countenaixOP ^discovered a strange eagerness, as if he 
had a mind to be in his own country again ; and this 
observation of mine put a great many thoughts into 
me, which i^pde me at first not so easy about my new 
itian Friday as I was before ; and I made no doubt 
but that if Friday could get back to his own nation, 
he would not only forget all his religion, but all his 
obligations to me ; and would be forward enough to 
give his countrymen an account of me, and come 
back, perhdps,' with a hundred or two of them, and 
make a feast upon me, at which he might be as merry 
as he used to be with those of his enemies, when thfty" 
were taken in war. 

But I wronged the poor honest creature very much, 
for which I was veiy sorry afterwards ; however, as 
my jealousy increased, and held me some weeks, I 
was a little more circumspect, and not so familiar 
and kind to him as before ; in which I was certainly 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 259 

• 

in the wrong too, the hone%t grateful creature having 
no thought about it, but what consisted of the best 
principles, both as a religious Christian and as a 
grateful friend, as appeared afterwards to my full 
satisfaction. 

Whilst my jealousy of' him lasted, you may be sure 
I was every day pumping him, to see if he would 
discover any of the new thoughts which I suspected 
were in him ; but I found everything he said was so 
ho'jiest and so innocen't, that I could find nothing to 
nourish my suspicion ; and in spite of all my uneasiness 
he made me at last entirely his own again — nor did 
he in the least perceive that I was uneasy — and there- 
fore I could not suspect him of deceit. ^ • 

One day, walking up tlie sama hill, but the wea ther, 
being hazy at sea, so that we could not seeltne con- 
tinent,* I called to him, and said, “ triday, do not you 
wish yourself in your own couhtry, your own nation?” 
” Yes,” he said, ” I be much O glad to be at my own 
nation.” ” What would you do there ! ” said I ; 
” would you turn wild again, eat menjp fl^sh again, 
and be a savage as you Were before ? He looked 
full of concern, and, shaking his head, said, ” No, 
no I Friday tell them to live good, tell them to pray 
God, tell them to eat corn bread, catflb^”5kili, milk, 
no eat again,” ” Why, then,” said I to him, 
“ they w’ill kill you ! ” He looked grave at that, and 
then said, ” No, they no kill me ; they willing love 
leam ”• — ^lie meant by this, they would be williff^ to 
learn. He added, they learned much of 4 :hc bearded 
mans that canic ih the boat. Then I asked hirr? if 
he would go back to them ? He smiled at that, and told 
me he could not swinr/ so far. I told him I would 
make a canoe for him. l^e told me he would go if I 
would go with him. 1 go f ” said I, ” why, they will 
eat me if I come there ! ” '' No, no I ” says he, ” me 
make them no eat you, me make they much love you ” 
— ^he meant he would teU them how I had killed his 
R.c. i 



26 o ROBINSON CRUSOE 

enemies and saved his Ij/e, and so he would make 
them love me. Then he told me how kind they were 
to seventeen, white men, or bearded men, as he called 
them, who came on shore in distress. 

From this time, I confess, I had a mind to venture 
over, and see if I could possibly join with these bearded 
men, who, I made no doubt, were Spaniards or Portu- 
guese ; not doubting but, if I could, we might find 
some method to escape from thence, being upon the 
continent, and a good company together, better tlf,an 
I could from an island forty miles off the shore., and 
alone without help. So, after seme days, I took 
Friday to work again, by way of discourse, and told 
him I "would give him a boat to go back to his own 
nation ; anA accordingly, I carried him to my frigate, 

' on the other side of the island ; and having 

cleared it of watet (for I always kept it sunk in the 
water), I brought it out, showed it him and we 
both went into it. 

I found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing 
it, would make it go almost as swift and fast again 
as I could T so when he was in, I said to him, Well, 
now, Friday, shall we go to your nation ? ” He looked 
very dull at my saying so, which it seems was because 
li^. thoingFt boat too small to go so far. I told him 
then I had a bigger ; so the next day I vyent to- the 
place where the first boat lay which I bad made, but 
which I could not get into the water : he said that 
was^big enough-; but then, as I had taken no care of 
it, and it had lain two or three-and-twenty years there, 
the sun had so split and dried il, that it was in a 
manner rotten. Friday told me such a boat would" 
do very well, and would carry “ much enough vittie, 
djink, bread — that was hjs way of talking. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


i6i. 


CHAPTER XVI. 

I determine to go to the Continent — Friday and I con- 
struct a Boat — Friday •brings intelligence of Savages 
on Shore — Friday and I save the life of a Spaniard — 
Discover a poor Indian in a Canoe, who turns out to 
be Friday’s Father. 

Up!)N the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my 
design of going over with him to the continent, that 
I told him we woifld go and make one as big as that, 
and he should go home in it. He answered npt one 
word, but looked very gr,ave and sad. I* asked him 
w^hat was the matter with him He asked nie 
thus, “Why you angry mad with Friday ? what me 
done ? I asked him what hp meant ? I told him I 
was not angry with him at all. ** No angry : no 
angry ! “ says he, repeating the words several times ; 
“ why send Friday home away to my nation ? 

Why,** said I, “ Friday, <Jid you not sa»*-y€Pu wished 
you were there ? ** “Yes, yes,*' says he, “ wish be 
both there ; no wish Friday there, no master there/* 
In a word, he would npt think of going^ber e wit lioht 
me. “ I go there, Friday ! '* said I ; “ whaT^oifRi 
I do there i^** He turned very quick upon me at this. 
“You do gresPt deal much good,'* sa}^ he ; “ you 
tea^ wild mans to be good, sober, tame mans ; 
tell them know God, pray God, and* live new life.** 
“ Alas, Friday, * '.said T, “ thou knowest hof what thou 
sayest;., I am but an ignorant man myself." " Ves 
ye^," says he, “ you tgachee me good, you teachee 
them good.” “ No, no, Friday,” said I, ” you shall 
go without me ; leave me Jy5re to live by myself, as 
I did before.” He looked confused again at that word, 
and running to one of the hatchets which he used to 
wear, he takes it up hastily, and gives it me« “What 
must I do with this? ” said I, to him. “You take 



^ 262 ' ROBINSON CRUSOE 

kill Friday,*' says he. What must T kill you for ? " 
said I again. He returns very quick, Wliat you send 
Friday away for ? Take kill Friday, no send Friday 
away.** This he spoke so earnestly, that T saw tears 
stand in his eyes. In a word^ 1 so plainly discoS^ered 
the utmost affection in him to me, and a firm resolution 
in him, that I told him then, and often after, that I 
would not send him away from me, if he was willing 
to stay with me. 

Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse a 
settled affection to me, and that nothing should part 
him from me, so I found aU the 'foundation of his 
desire to go to his own country, was laid in his ardent 
affection to the people and his hopes ol my doing them 
thing which,‘^as 1 had no notion of myself, 
so I had' not the Ipast thought, or intention, or desire 
of undertaking it. But still 1 found a strong inclination 
to my attempting an escape, as above, founded on 
the supposition gathered from the former discourse — 
namely, that there were seventeen bearded men there; 
and therofa^f*, without delay, I went to work with 
Friday, to find out a great tree proper to fell, and make 
a large periagua, or canoe, to undertake the voyage. 
There were^rees enough in the island to have built 
a*>littk^"fieet, not of periaguas and canoes only, but of 
good large vessels : but the main thing h looked at, 
was to get ong so near the water that we might launch 
it wjjpn it was made, to avoid the mistake 1 committed 
at first. 

At last Friday pitched upon x tfee , for I found he 
kribw much better than I what kind of wood was fittest 
for it ; nor can I tell to this day what wood to call tj?.e ‘ 
tree we cut down, except tliat it was very like the 
tree we call fustic, or between that and the Nicaragua 
wood, for it was much of the same colour and smell. 
Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity of this 
tree out, to make it into a boat : but I showed him 
how rather to cut it out ’ivith tools, which, after I 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 263 , 

showed him how to use, he did very handily ; and in 
about a month's hard labom we finished it, and made 
it very handsome, especially when, wfth our axes, 
w^hich I showed him how to handle, we cut and hewed 
the outside into tfie tr^ue shape of a boat. After this, 
however, it cost us near a fortnight's time to get her 
along, as it were, inch by inch, upon great rollers, 
into the water ; but w^hen she was in, she would have 
carried twenty men wjlth 'great ease. 

•When she was in the water, and though she was so 
big, it amazed me to see with what dexterity, and 
how swift, my man Friday could manage her, turn 
her, and paddle her along ; so I asked laim if h^ would, 
and if we might, venture over in her ? “ Ves," he said, 
“ he venture over in her very ^ell, though g^eat hlo’..* 
wind.” However, I had a furth<sr design which he 
knew nothing of, and that w^as, to make a mast and 
sail, and to fit her with an anchor and cable. As to 
a mast, that was easy enough to get ; so I pitched 
upon a straight young cedar tree, which I found near 
► the place, and which there was a great-^^enty of in 
the island ; and I set Friday to work to cut it down, 
and gave him directions, how to shape and order it ; 
but, as to the sail, that was my partinilar care*;* I 
knew I had old sails, or rather x^ieces oi*t 5 Ift s^is, 
enofigh ; but, as I had had them now twenty-six 
years by me, cftid had not been very care,ful to preserve 
tbam, not imagining that I should ever have this,kind 
of use for them, I did not doubt bu! that they were 
all rotten — and^ iijdCed, most of theniVete so ; how- 
ever, I, found two pieces which appeared pretty good, 
apd with these I went to work, and witli great a deal 
of pains, and awkward tedious stitching (you may be 
sure) for want of needles;.! at length made a three- 
cornered ugly thing, like what we call in England a 
shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go with a boom at bottom, 
and a little short sprit at the top, such as usually our 
ships’ long-boats sail with, an^ such as I best knew 



264 ' ROBINSON CRUSOE 

how to manage ; because it was such a one as I used 
in the boat in which 1 made my escape from Barbary, 
as related in the first part of my story. 

I was near two months performing this last work, 
namely, rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for 
I finished them very complete, making a small stay, 
and a sail or foresail to it, to assist if we should turn 
to windward ; and, which was more than all, I fixed 
a rudder to tlte stem of her, to steer with ; and though 
I was but a bungling shipwright, yet as I knew the 
usefulness, and even necessity, of such a thing, I 
applied myself with so much pains" to do it, that at 
last I brought it to pass, though, considering the 
many dull contrivances I had for it that failed, I think 
•it* -cost me almost a& much labour as making the 
boat. 

After all this was done, I had m.y man Friday to 
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my 
boat ; for though he knew very well how to paddle 
the canoe, he knew nothing what belonged to a sail 
and a. and was the more amazed when he saw • 

me work the boat to and again in the sea by the rudder, 
and how the sail jibed and filled this way or that w-ay, 
as*'iTie coursf. .^^^e sailed changed — I say, when he saw 
tKis, liT'i&cd^od like one astonished and amazed : how- 
ever, with a little use, I made all these things familiar 
to him, and he became an expert sailor, except that 
as to the compass I could make him understand vej*y 
little of that : on the other hand, as there was very 
little cloudy w'eather, and seldom or never any fogs, 
in "^those parts, there was the less occasion for, a com- 
pass, seeing the stars were always to be seen by night, 
and the shore by day, except in the rainy seasons ; 
and then nobody cared to stir abroad, either by land 
or sea. 

I w'as now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year 
of my captivity in this place ; though the three last 
years that I had this creature with me, ought rather 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


265 

to be left out of the account, my habitation being 
quite of another kind than in all the rest of my time. 
I kept the anniversary of my landing liere with the 
sam^ thankfulness to God, for his mercies as at first ; 
and if I had such caji^e of acknowledgment at first, 
I had much more so now, having such additional 
testimonies of the care of Providence over me, and 
the great hopes I had of being effectually and speedily 
delivered ; for I had an invincible impression upon 
my thoughts that my deliverance was at hand, and 
that I should not, be another year in this place. How- 
ever, I went on with my husbandry, digging, planting, 
and fencing, as usual ; I gathered and cured my grapes, 
and did every necessary* tiling^ as befortf. 

The rainy season was in the meantime ^pOii ‘ me* 
when. I kept more within doors than at other times ; 
so I stowed our new vessel. as sectire as we could, 
bringing her up into the creek, where, as I said in the 
beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship ; and 
hauling her up to the shore, at high-water mark, I 
made my man Friday dig a httle dock, fu^’i'^ig enough 
for her to float in ; and then, when the tide was out, 
we made a strong dam ’across the end of it, toJ«:sep 
the water out; and. so she lay dry,"^*: .to the tide, 
from the sea; and, to keep the rain off, "we^laiS a 
great maity boughs of trees, so thick that she was as 
well thatcheef as a house ; and thus -we waited for 
the months of November and December, in which I 
designed to make my adventure. , , 

When the s^sttted* season began to come in, as, the 
thought of my design returned with the fair weather, 
h was preparing daily, for the voyage ; and the first 
thing I did was to lay up a certain quantity of pro- 
vision, being the store fdr jthe voyage, and intended, 
in a week or a fortnight's time, to open the dock and 
launch out our boat. I was busy one morning upon 
something of this kind, when I called to Friday, and 
bade him go to the sea-shore and see if he could And 



s66 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

a turtle, or tortoise, a thing which we generally got 
once a-week, for the sake of the eggs as well as the 
flesh. Friday had not been long gone w^hen he came 
running back, and flew Over my ouhvard wall, or fence, 
like one that felt not the ground or the steps he set 
his feet on ; and before I had time ta speak to him, 
he cried out to me : “ Oh, master ! Oh, master I 
Oh, sorrow ! Oh, bad ! " What’s the matter, Friday ? 
said I. '' Oh, yonder there," says lie, “ one, two, 
three canoe \ one, two three ! " By this way of speak- 
ing, 1 concluded there were six ; but, on inquiry, I 
found there were but three. “ Well, Friday," said I, 
" do not be frighted ; " so I heartened him up as well 
as I could. However, I saw' die poor fellow was most 
ferfuJiy scared ; for nothing ran in his head but that 
they were come to look for him, and would cut him 
in pieces and eat him. The poor fellow trembled so, 
that I scarce knew what to do with him. I comforted 
him as well as I could, and told him I was in as much 
danger as he, and that they W'ould eat me as well as 
him. "BtH/'^said I, "Friday, we must resolve to 
fight them : can you fight, Friday ? " “ Me shoot,’* 
say« he, " but there come many great number." " No 
matterj^ J;V-<V** said I again ; " our guns will fright 
them that we do not kill." So I asked him, whether, 
if I resolved to defend him, he would defend me, and 
stand by me, and do just as I bade him ? He said, 
" Me- die when you bid die, master." So I went and 
fetched a good dram of rum, and gave him ; for I had 
been so good a husband of my rum that I had a great 
deal left. When he had drunk it, I made him take the 
two fowling-pieces whidi we always carried, and load 
them with large swan-shot as big as small pistol bullets; 
then I took four muskets, ahd loaded them with two 
slugs and five small bullets each ; and my two pistols 
I loaded with a brace of bullets each — I hung my great 
sv;ord, as usual, naked by my side, and gave Friday 
iiis hatchet. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 267 

When I had thus prepared myself, I took my per- 
spective glass, and went up to the side, of the hill to 
see what I could discover ; and I found quickly, by 
my^lass, that there were one-aiid -twenty savages, 
three prisoners, and Ithree canoes ; and that their 
whole business- seemed to be the triumphant banquet 
upon these three human bodies — a barbarous feast, 
indeed, but nothing more than, as I had observed, 
Wfis usual with them.* 

I observed also that they were landed, not where 
they had done *vhen Friday made his escape, but 
nearer to my creek, where the shore was low, and where 
a thick wood came close almost down to tlfe sea — 
this, with the abhorrence of thg inhuman errand these 
wretches came about, so Med me with indignation, 
that I came down again to Friday,* and told him I was 
resolved to go down to them and kill them all, and 
asked him if he would stand by me. He was now 
gotten over his fright, and his spirits being a little 
raised with the dram I had given hii§, he was very 
cheerful, and told me, as before, he wotiicl die when 
I bid die. 

In this fit of fury, I took first and divided the 
which I had charged* as before, bet\v6t.*''.*^v;-J Sfil-ve 
Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three guns 
upon his slioujder, and I took one pistol and the other 
three myself ; and in this posture wc* marched out. 
I •took a small bottle of rum in my pocket, and* gave 
Friday a large bag; with more powder ^ind bullets ; 
and as to ordet'S, •! charged him to keep close behind 
me, arid not to stir, shoot, or do anything till I bade 
Mm; and, in the meantime, not to speak a word. 
In this posture I fetched ^a compass to my right hand 
of near a mile, as well to over the creek as to get 
into the wood ; so that I might come within shot of 
them before I could be discovered, which I had seen 
by my glass it was easy to do. 

Wiile I was making this mareh, my former thoughts 



S26S ROBINSON CRUSOE 

returning, I began to abate my resolution — 1 do not 
mean that I ^ entertained any fear of their number ; 
for as ,they were naked, unarmed wretches, it is 
certain I was superior to them, nay, though I had -been 
alone — but it occurred to my*^ thoughts, what call, 
what occasion, much less what necessity, I was in to 
go and dip my hands in blood — to attack people who 
had neither done nor intended me 2 Lny wrong, who, as 
to me, were innocent, and whose barbarous custoi^^ 
were their own disaster, being in them a token indeed 
of God's having left them, with th& other nations of 
that part of the world, to such stupidity and to such 
inhumaii courses; but did not call mo to take upon 
jne be a judge of thfir actions, much less an execu- 
tioiier of 'His justice ; that whenever He thought fit 
He would take ihe cause into His own hands, 
and by, national vengeance, pufiish them fot 
national crimes, but that, in the meantime, it was 
none of my business — that it was true, Friday might 
justify it, ^c^xLSc he was a declared enemy, and in a 
state of w^ with those very particular people, and it 
was lawful for him to^atta^ them ; but I could not 
say the same with respect to' me. These things were 
so,wai32j^" >lc^sed upon my thoughts all the way as 
I went, that I resolved I would only go place myself 
near them, that I migtit oversee their barbarous feast, 
and that I wohld act then as God should direct ; but 
that,"‘unless something offered that was more a c411 
to me than yet I knew of, I would not meddle with 
them. ‘ " 

With this resolution I entered the wood, and with 
all possible wariness and silence (Friday followiifg 
close at my heels), I marched till I came to the skirt 
of the wood, on the side v^hich was next to them — 
only that one comer of the wood lay between me and 
them— here I called softly to Friday, showing him a 
great tree, which was just at the comer of the wood ; 
I bade him go to the 'tree, and bring me word if he 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 269- 

could see there plainly what they were doing ; he did 
so, and came immediately back to me, and told me that 
they might be plainly viewed there ; that they were 
all about the 4ire, eating the flesh of one of their 
prisoners ; and that ailother lay bound upon the sand, 
a little from th^m, whom he said they would kill next, 
and which fired the very soul within me. He told me 
it was not one of their nation, but one of the bearded 
m'in whom he had told me of, who came to their 
country in the boat. I was filled with hdrror at the 
very naming the* white bearded-man, and, going to 
the tree, I saw plainly by my glass, a white man, who 
lay upon the beach of the sea, with his hands Und his 
feet tied with flags, or things iike rushes ; and that 
he was a European, and had clothes on. • 

There was another tree, and a liftle thicket beyond 
it, about fifty yards nearer to them than the place 
where I was, which, by going a little way about, I 
saw I might come at undiscovered, and that then I 
should be within half shot of them ; so J withheld my 
‘ passion, though I was indeed enraged to me highest 
degree, and going back^ about twenty paces, I got 
behind some bushes, which held all the way till I c^.vne 
to the other tree, and then I came fS* w. ’T^j^ij^ng 
ground, which gave me a full view of them at the 
distance of abi)ut eighty yards. 

I had now not a moment to lose/ for nineteen 
of* the dreadful wretches sat upon the^ ground alliclose 
huddled together, aijd had just sent the other two to 
butcher the pobr ^^hristian, and bring him, perhaps, 
limb by limb, to their fire; and they were stooped 
dftwn to untie the hands*at his feet. I turned to Friday. 

“ Now, Friday,” said I, ” do as I bid thee.” Friday , 
said he would. ” Then, Fliday,” said I, ” do exactly 
as you see me do ; fail in nothing. '* So I set down one 
of the muskets and the fowling-piece upon the ground 
and Friday did the like by his ; and with the other 
musket I took my aim at tht» savages, bidding him 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


270 

do the like. Then, asking him if lie was ready, he 
said, “ Yes.” .^ “ Then fire at them,” said I ; and the 
same moment I fired also. 

Friday took his aim so much better -than I, that on 
the side that he shot he kiiFd two of them, and 
wounded three more ; and on my side, I killed one 
and wounded two. They were, you may be sure, in 
a dreadful consternation ; and all of them who were 
not hurt, jumped up upon tlfeir feet immediately, 
but did not know which way to run, or which way to 
look ; for they knew not from whence their destruction 
came. Friday kept his eyes close upon me, that, as 
I had bid him, he might observe what I did : so as 
soon as the first shot, was made, I threw down the 
piece, and took up the fowling-piece, and Friday did 
the like ; he sees Vne cock and present — ^lic did the 
same again. ” Are you ready, Friday ? ” said I. 
“ Yes,” says he. ” Let fly, then,” said I, ” in the name 
of God ; ” and with that I fired again among the 
amazed wyetches, and so did Friday, and as our pieces 
were nowTbaded with what I c^ed swan shot, or 
small pistol bullets, we found only two drop ; but 
so-3r.any were wounded, that they ran about yelling 
apjcl like mad creatures, all bloody, and 

miserably wounded most of them ; whereof three 
more fell quickly after, though not quite dead. 

“ Now, Friday,” said I, laying down the discharged 
piece!*, and taking up the musket, which was y’et 
loaded, ” follow me,” said I — ^which he did with a deal 
of courage, upon which I rushed oui o'l the wood and 
showed myself, and Friday close at my foot : as soon 
as I perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud 
could, and bade Friday do so too : and running as 
fast as I could, which, by*t2ie way, was not very fast 
being loaded with arms as I was, I made directly 
towards the poor victim, who was, as I said, lying 
upon the beach or shore, between the place where 
they sat and the seay the two butchers who were 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 271. 

just going to work with him, had left him at the 
surprise of our first fire, and fled in a terrible fright 
to the sea-side, and had jumped into a carfoe, and three 
more of the rest made tlie same way. I turned to 
Friday, and bade him step forwards, and fire at them; 
he understood me immediately, and, running about 
forty yards to be near them, he shot at them, and I 
thought he had killed them all ; for I saw them all 
fall op a heap into the boat — though I saw two of 
thi?in get up again quickly—however, he killed two of 
them, and wounded the third, so that he lay down 
in the bottom bf the boat as if he had been 
dead. 

While my man Friday fired at them, I pwUed out my 
knife, and cut the flags that b^und the poor victim ;• 
and Igosing his hands and feet, I Jifted hini up, and 
asked him, in the Portuguese tongue, what he was ? 
He answered, in Latin, Christianns ; but was so weak 
and faint that he could scarce stand or speak. I 
took my bottle out of my pocket, and gave it him, 
» making signs that he should drink, wkick he did; 
and T gave him a piece of bread, which he ate : then 
I asked him what countryman he was ? and he said 
** Espagnole ** ; and being a little recovered, lef me 
know, by all the signs he could possibly 'iitakirl*t^w 
mudi he wfe in my debt for his deliverance. Seignor,'' 

said I, with as*much Spanish as I could injike up, “ we 
will talk afterwards, but we must fight now : if you 
have any strength left, take this pfstol and sword, 
and lay about yoij he took them Very thankfully, 
and np^ sooner had he arms in his hands, but, if 
tljey had put new vigour into them, he flew upon his 
murderers like a fury,*and had cut two of them in 
pieces in an instant ; fo^.the truth is, as the whole 
was a sur][)rise to them, so* the poor creatures were 
so much frightened with the noise of our pieces, that 
they fell down for mere amazement and fear, and had 
no more power to attempt tljeir own escape, than 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 

their flesh had to resist our shot — and that was the 
case of those five that Friday shot in the boat ; for 
as three of them fell with the hurt they received, so 
the other two fell with the fright. 

I kept my piece in my hard still, without firing, 
being willing to keep my chafgfe ready, because I had 
given the Spaniard my pistol and sword ; so I called 
to Friday, and bade him run up to the tree from whence 
we first fired, and fetch the arms which lay there, 
that had been discharged, which he did with gi?^at 
swiftness ; and then, giving him my musket, I sat 
down myself to load all the rest agaiin, and bade them 
come to me when they wanted. While I was loading 
those piece*:, there happened a fierce engagement 
.between the Spaniard and one of the savages, who 
made at* him with, one of their great wooden s.^ords, 
the same weapon that was to have killed him before, 
if I had not prevented' it : the Spaniard, who was 
as bold and as brave as could be imagined, though 
weak, had fought this Indian a good while, and had 
cut him t>KQtfVreat wounds on his head ; but the savage^ 
being a stout, lusty fellow/ closing in with him, had 
thrown him down (being faint), and was wringing 
my Sword out .his hand, when the Spaniard, though 
unde2W^5’.,ri'' 'Wisely quitting his sword, drew the pistol 
from his girdle, shot the savage through ’*the bV)dy, 
and killed him upon the spot, before I, who was 
running to help, could come near him. 

Friday being "now left at his liberty, pursued the 
flying wietches' with no weapon ‘in hjs hand but his 
hatchet ; and with that he despatched those three, 
who, as I said before, were wounded at first, aqd 
fallen, and all the rest he could come up with ; and 
the Spaniard coming to me^ for a gun, I gave him one 
of the fowling-pieces, with which he pursued two of 
the savages, and wounded them both ; but, as he was 
not able to run, they both got from him into the wood, 
where Friday pursued them, and killed one of them ; 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 273. 

but the other was too nimble for him ; and, though 
he was wounded, yet he plunged into the sea, and 
swam with aU his might off to those who were left 
in thp canoe ; which three in the canoe, with one 
wounded, who we knc|v. not whether he died or no, 
were all that escaped our hands of one-and-twenty. 
The account of the rest is as follows : — 

Three killed at our lir^t shot from the tree ; two 
killed At the next sho^ ; two killed by Friday in the 
boat ; two killed by Friday, of those at first wounded ; 
one killed by Frkhiy in the wood ; three killed by the 
Spaniard ; four killed, being found dropped here 
and there, of the wounds, or killed by Friday* in his 
chase of them ; four es(!aped ^n the bdat, whereof 
one was wounded, if not dead — twenty-one i» all. 

Those that were in the canoe wt)rked hard to get 
out of gunshot ; and, though Friday made two or 
three shots at them, I did not find that he hit any of 
them. Friday would have fain had me take one of 
their canoes, and pursue them ; and, indeed, I was 
•very anxious about their escape, lest, carr^^tiif the news 
home to their people, they should come back, perhaps, 
with two or three hundred of their canoes, and devour 
us by mere multitudes; so I conseffew:^ to Pursue 
them by sgp.; and, running to one of their canoes, 
I jumped ih, smd bade Friday follow me ; but, when 
I was in the canoe, I was surprised tor find another 
poor creature lie there alive, bound .hand and foot, 
as the Spaniard was, for the slaughter, .and almost 
dead with fear,* n®t ‘knowing what the matter was ; 
for he had not been able to look up over the side of 
the boat : he was tied ^so hard, neck and heels, and 
had been tied so long, that he had really little life in 
him. *• t 

I immediately cut the twisted flags, or rushes, 
which they had bound him with, and would have 
helped him up ; but he could not stand or speak, 
but groaned most piteously, • believing, it seems, 



.274 ' ROBINSON CRUSOE 

still that he was only unbound in order to be 
killed. 

When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to 
him, and tell him of his deliveraiace ; and, polling 
out my bottle, made him give.tjie poor wxetch a dram, 
which, with the news of his being delivered, revived 
him, and he sat up in the boat ; but, when Friday 
came to hear him speak, and looked in his face, it 
would have moved any one to tears to have seczi l\ow 
Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged him, cried, 
laughed, hallooed, jumped about, chanced, sang, then 
cried again, wrung his hands, beat his own face and 
head, and then sang and jumped about again like a 
distracted dicature. It was a good w4ule before I 
‘could make him speak* to me, or tell me what was the 
matter ; but when* he came a little to himself, he told 
me that it was his father. 

It was not easy for me to express how it moved me, 
to see what ecstasy and filial affection had worked in 
this poor savage, at the sight of his father, and of 
his being '’tteliVered from death ; nor indeed can I* 
describe half the extravagances of his affection after 
this.:, for he went into the boat and out of the boat 
a gre^jjjar»y..<i^iles ; when he went in to him, he would 
sirdo^ by" him, open his breast, and hold b.is father’s 
head close to his bosom, half an hour together, to 
nourish it, tlien he took liis arms and" ankles, which 
were* numbed aijd stiff with the binding, and chafed 
and nibbed^them with his hands^; and I, perceiving 
what the case was, gave him some lum out of my 
bottle to rub them with, wliich did them a great deal 
ef good. ^ / 

This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe 
with the other savages, who were now gotten almost 
out of sight, and it was happy for us that we did not, 
for it blew so hard within two hours after, and before 
they could be gotten a quarter of their way, and con- 
tinued blowing so hard all night, and that from the 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


275 

north-west, which was against them, that I could 
not suppose their boat could live, or tl^at they ever 
reached to their own coast. 

But to return tg Friday. He was so busy about his 
father that I could nc|t#lind in my heart to take him 
off for some time, but after I thought he could leave 
him a little, I called him to me, and he came jumping 
and laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme, 
n^en J asked him if he*had given his father any bread ? 
He shook his head, and said, " None : ugly dog eat 
all up self." So I gave him a cake of bread out of a 
little pouch I carried on purpose. I also gave him a 
dram for himself, but he would not taste it, but •carried 
it to his father. I had in hiy pocket, also,*two or three 
bunches of my raisins, so I gave him a handfvd of them 
for his father. He had no soontJr given his father 
these raisins, but I saw him* come out of the boat, 
and run away as if he had been bewitched. He ran 
at such a rate — for he was the swiftest fellow of his 
feet that ever I saw — I say, he ran at such a rate, 
•that he was out of sight,# as it were, iri*an instant ; 
and though I called, and hallooed too, after him, it 
was all one : away he 'vC^ent, and in a quarter an 
hour I saw him come, back again, tlidtr^^l: so fgs t 

as l\e went, and as he came nearer, I found his pace 
was slackef, because he had something in his hand. 

When he came up to me, I found he had been quite 
home for an earthen jug, or pot, to i>ring his father 
some fresh water, and that he had got two,more cakes, 
or loaves of breach. The bread- he gave me, but the 
water he carried to his father : however, as I was very 
thirsty too, I took a littk sup of it. This water revived 
his father more than all the rum or spirits I had given 
him, for he was just fainting with thirst. 

When his father had drunk, I called him to know 
if there was any water left. He said, " Yes ” ; and I 
bade him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as 
much want of it as his father ; tand I sent one of the 



£76 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

cakes that Friday brought to the Spaniard too, who 
was indeed very weak, and was reposing himself upon 
a green place, under the shade of a tree, and whose 
limbs were also very stiff, and very much swelled with 
the rude bandage he had besu tied with. Wlien I 
saw that upon Friday’s coming to him with the water, 
he sat up and drank, and took the bread, and began 
to eat, 1 went to him, and gave him a handful of 
raisins : he looked up in my face with all the tokens 
of gratitude and thankfulness that could appear in 
any countenance ; but was so weak, notwithstanding 
he had so exerted himself in the tight, that he could 
not stand upon his feet : he tried to do it two or three 
times, but really was. not able, his ankles were so 
swelled and so painful to him ; so I bade him sit still, 
and caused Friday ^to rub his ankles, and bathe- them 
with rum, as he had done his father’s. 

I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two 
minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here, 
turned his head about, to see if his father was in the 
same place 'alicl posture as be left him sitting ; and at 
last he found he was not to be seen : at which he started 
up, and, without speaking a word, flew with that swift- 
ness to one could scarce perceive his feet 

to fouch the ground as he went ; but whe,n^he came, 
he only found he had laid himself down to ease his 
limbs ; so Friday came back to me presently, and I 
then spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him 
up, if he could, and lead him to the boat, and then 
he should carry him to our dweliiieg,** where I would 
take care of him ; but Friday, a lusty youngs fellow, 
took the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and carried 
him away to the boat, and set him down softly upon 
the side or gunnel of the j canoe, with his feet in the 
inside of it, and then lifted him quite in, and set him 
close to his father, and presently stepping out again, 
launched the boat off, and paddled it along the shore 
faster than 1 could walk, though the wind blew pretty 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 277 

hard too : so he brought them safe into our creek ; 
and leaving them in the boat, runs away to fetch 
the other canoe. As he passed me, 1 spoke to him, 
and asked him whither he went ? He told me, “Go 
fetch more boat ** ; scl fiway he went, like the wind ; 
for sure never man or morse ran like him, and he had 
the other canoe in the creek almost as soon as I got 
to it by land ; so he wafted me over, and went then 
to help our new guests out of the boat, which he did, 
bA they were neither of them able to walk ; so that 
poor Friday knew not what to do. 

To remedy this* I went to work in my thought, and 
calling to Friday to bid them sit down on the bank 
while he came to me, I»soon made a kfnd of hand- 
barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I caiyied them 
up bQth together upon it betw^een«us : but when we 
got them to the outside of our wall or fortification, 
we were at a worse loss than before, for it was impos- 
sible to get them over, and I was resolved not to break 
it down : so I set to w^ork again ; and Friday and I, 
• in about two hours' time, o^ade a very IfSaAdSome tent, 
covered with old sails, and above that with boughs 
of trees, being in the space without our outward fence, 
and between that and, the grove of yois^g wood which 
I had planted : and here we made two beds oTTsuch 
things as ¥ had ; namely, of good rice straw, with 
blankets laid flpon it to lie on, and an®ther to cover 
them on each bed. 

My island was now peopled, and I thought myself 
very rich in subjects ; and it was a merry reflection 
which \ frequently made, how like a king I looked : 
first of all, the whole country was my own mere pro- 
perty, so that I had an undoubted right of dominion ; 
secondly, my people were* perfectly subjected ; I was 
absolute lord and law-giver; they all owed their 
lives to me, and were ready to lay down their lives, 
if there had been occasion for it, for me ; it was remark- 
able too, I had but three subjqpts, and they were of 



278 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

three different religions. My man Friday was a Protes- 
tant, his father a Pagan and a cannibal, and the 
Spaniard was a Papist ; however, I allowed liberty 
of conscience throughout my donjinions ; but , this 
by the way. , 

As soon as I had secured iny two, weal<, rescued 
prisoners, and given them shelter, and a place to rest 
them upon, I began to think of malting some provision 
for them ; and the first thing L did, I ordered Eriejay 
to take a yearling goat, betwnxt a kid and a goat, out 
of my particular flock, to be killed : then I cut off the 
hind quarter, and chopping it into small pieces, I set 
Friday- to work to boiling and stewing, and made 
them a very good dish, I assure you, oi flesh and broth, 
having put some barley and rice also into the broth ; 
and as I cooked it without doors (for I made no fire 
witliin my inner wall), so I carried it all into the new 
tent ; and having set a tabic tliere for them, I sat 
down and ate my dinner also wdth them : and, as 
well as I could, cheered them and encouraged them, 
Friday being my interpreter, especially to his father, 
and indeed to the Spaniard too ; for the Spaniard 
spoke the language of the sa\ ages pretty well. 

A^terw;£jb;vd dined, or rather supped, I ordered 
Ffiday*totake one of the canoes, and go ^and fetch 
our muskets and other fire-arms, which, lor want of 
time, we hadi left upon the place of battle ; and the 
next day I ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies 
of the savages, which lay open to the sun, and would 
pr^jsently be offensive ; and I also qrchjred him to bury 
the horrid remains of their barbarous feast, .which I 
knew w’ere pretty mudi, and ,,wliich I could not thi^k 
of doing myself ; nay, I could not bear to see them, 
if I went that way : all which he punctually performed, 
and defaced the wery appcaiance of the savages being 
there ; so that when 1 went again, I could scarce 
know where it was, otherwise than by the corner of 
the wood pointing to file place. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 279 

I then began to enter into a little conversation with 
my two new subjects ; and first, I set Friday to inquire 
of his father what he thought of the escape of the 
savages in that catioe \ and whither we might expect 
a return of them with a ffbwer too great for us to resist? 
His lirst opinioti was, that the savages in the boat 
never could live out the storm which blew that night 
they went oil, but must t)f necessity be drowned or 
drif eif^south to those 'other shores, where, they w'ere 
as sure to be devoured as they w^crc to be drowned if 
they were cast awuy ; but as to what they would do 
if the}'' came safe on shore, he said he knew no { ; but 
it was his opinion, that thc;y were so drcadfjilly frighted 
with the manner of being attaclied, the noise and tlie 
fire, that he believed they would^ tell then* people 
they A^erc all killed by thunder and lightning, and not 
by the hand of man ; and thaCthe two which appeared 
(namely, Friday and I) were two heavenly spirits or 
furies come down to destroy them, and not men with 
^capons. This, he said, he knew, becani^e-he heard 
them all cry out so in theif language to one another ; 
for it was impossible for tjiem to conceive that a man 
should dart fire, and speak thunder ,^nd kill at a 
distance, without lifting up the hand, as wix.^ siwie 
now'.. And -this old savage wiis in the right ; for, as 
I understood since, by other hands, the savages of 
that part never attempted to go over to the island 
aft&wards. They w^ere so terrified with the accounts 
given by these four men (for it seems the}'* did escape 
the sea), that the^ believed, whoever went to thht 
enchanted island would be destroyed with fire from 
the* gods. • 

This, however, I knew nqt, and therefore was under 
continual apprehensions for ti good while, and kept 
always upon my guard ; I and all my army ; for, as 
there were now four of us, I would have Ventured 
upon a hundred of them fairly in the open field at 
any time. • 



28 o ROBINSON CRUSOE 

In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing, 
the fear of their coming wore off ; and I began to 
take my former thoughts of a voyage to the main 
into consideration, being likewise assured by Friday's 
father, that I might depend ■ ' .pon good usage from 
their nation on his account, if I would go. 


CHAPTER XVII 

I learu of more Spaniards among the Savages — The 
• Spaniard and Fridav's Father sail to the Continent — 
an English ship 6ff the Island — Boat comes on 
shore with three Prisoners — Discover myself to the 
Prisoners — Secure the Mutineers. 

But my thoughts were a little suspended, when I had 
a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when I 
understood that there were sixteen more of his country- 
men and Portuguese, who, ’having been cast away, and 
made their escape to that side, lived there at peace 
indfc'ed with Jhn savages, but were sore put to it for 
and indeed for life’, I asked him all the 
particulars of their voyage, and found^-they were 
a Spanish ship, bound from the Rio de, la Plata to the 
Havanna, being directed to leave their loading there, 
which was chiedy hides and silver, and to bring bick 
what European goods they could meet with there ; 
thrat they had five Portuguese seanlen on board, whom 
they took out of another wreck ; that five* of their 
own men were drowned wheni first the ship was lojt ; 
and that these escaped through infinite dangers and 
hazards, and arrived almost starved on the cannibal 
coast, where they expected to have been devoured 
every moment. 

He told me they had some arms with them, but they 
W’ere perfectly useless ; for that they had neither 



ROBINSON CRUSOE «8i 

powder nor ball, the washing of the sea having spoiled 
all their powder, but a little which theyMsed at their 
first landing to provide themselves some food. 

I asked him what hei thought would become of them 
there ; and if they haU.* formed no design of making 
any escape ? He said they had had many consultations 
about it ; but that, having neither vessel nor tools to 
build one, nor provisions ‘of any kind, their counsels 
ah'^ay:? ended in tears *and despair. 

I asked him how he thought they would receive a 
proposal from me, which might tend towards an escape; 
and whether, if they v/ere ail here, it might not b^ done? 
I told him with freedqm, I feared raostly their 
treachery and ill usage of me, iUl put my life in their 
hands ; for that gratitude was no inherent virtue in 
the nature of man ; nor did men always square their 
dealings by the obligations “they had received, so 
much as they did by the advantages they expected. 
I told him, it would be very hard that I should be the 
instrument of their deliverance, and that they should 
afterwards make me theif prisoner in New Spain, 
where an Englishman wa§ certain to be made a sacri- 
fice, what necessity, or what accident ^ever, brought 
him thither ; and that’I had rather be devout tvlvslwe, 
than. fall the merciless claws of the priests, and 
be carried intOtothe Inquisition. 1 added, that other- 
wise, I was persuaded if they were all here we might, 
with so many hands, build a bark large enough to 
carry us all away, either to the Brazils -southward, 
or to the islands dr Spanish coast northward : but 
that if irf requital they should, when I had put weapons 
into their hands, carry the by force among their own 
people, I might be ill useej^for my kindness to them, 
and make my case worse thaft it was before. 

He answered, with a great deal of candour and 
ingenuity, that their condition was so miserable, and 
that they were so sensible of it, that he believed they 
would abhor the thought of usiif^ any man unkindly 



'282 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

that should contribute to their deliverance ; and that 
if I pleased/ he would go to them with the old man, 
and discourse with them about it, and return again, 
and bring me their answer : * that he would make 
conditions with them, upon ^tieir solemn oath, that 
they would be absolutely under my leading, as their 
commander and captain : and that they should swear 
upon the hol3^ Sacraments and Gospel to be true to 
me, and go to such Christian country as I shourd agree 
to, and no other ; and to be directed wholly and 
absolutely by my orders, till they were landed safely 
in such country as I intended ; and that he would bring 
a contract.,, from them uncier their hands for that 
purpose. et 

Then nc told me, he would first swear to me himself, 
that he would never stir from me as long as he lived, 
till I gave him order ; and that he would take my side 
to the last drop of blood, if there should happen the 
least breach of faith among his countrymen. 

He told. they were all of them very civil, honest 
men, and they were under the greatest distress imagin- 
able, having neither weapons nor clothes, nor any 
food, but at ^be mercy and discretion of the savages — 
oztrrf *odl hopes of ever returning to their own country; 
and that he was sure, if I would undertake -their relief, 
they would hve and die by me. 

Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to 
relieve them, if possible, and to send the old savage 
and this Spaniard over to them to treat : but when 
h6 had gotten all things in readiness to go, the Spaniard 
himself started an objection, which had so much 
prudence in it on one hand, and so much sincerity on 
the other hand, that I could not but be very well 
satisfied in it ; and, by his advice, put off the deliver- 
ance of his comrades for at least half a year. The case 
was this : — 

He had been with us now about a month, during 
which time I had left him see in what manner I had 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


283 ‘ 

provided, with the assistance of Providence, for my 
support ; and he saw evidently what stock of corii 
and rice I had laid up : which, as it was more than 
sufficient for myself, so it was not suilicient, at least, 
without good husbandi|j\ for my family, now it was 
increased to number four : but much less would it 
be sufficient if his countrymen, who w^ere, as he said, 
fourteen still alive, should come over ; and least of 
all jtvc'Ad it be sufficient to victual our vessel, if we 
should build one, for a voyage to any due of the 
Christian colonies ,of America. So he told me, he 
thought it w^ould be more advisable to let him and the 
other two dig and cultivate some more land, as* much 
as I could spai'e seed to so’w ; and that we should w^it 
another harvest, that we might nave a supply of corn 
for his-coiintrymen when they should come ; for want 
might be a temptation to them to disagree, or not to 
think themselves delivered, otherwise than out of one 
difficulty into another. You know," says he, " the 
children of Israel, though they rejoiced a^lirs^t at their 
being delivered out of Eg3^pt, yet rebelled even against 
God himself, that delivered them, when they came to 
w^ant bread in the wilderness.” 

His caution was so -seasonable, ancT his 
good,^that T, could not but be very well pleased with 
his proposal* as^w^cll as I w^as satislied with his fidelity. 
So we fell to digging, all four of us, as well eCs the wooden 
took we were furnished with permitted ^ and, in ab’out 
a month’s time, by ^the end of which it, was such 
time, we had gottei> as much land cured and trimmed 
up as we sowed tw^enty-two bushels of barley on, 
and. sixteen jars of rioe, which was, in short, all 
the seed we had to spare ; nor indeed did we leave 
ourselves barley sufficient fot ^ur own food for the six 
months that W’e had to expect our crop, that is to say. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


'284 

Having now society enough, and our number being 
sufficient to .put us out of fear of the savages, if they 
had come, unless their number had been very great, 
we went freely all over the island, wherever we found 
occasion.; and as here we ha(| our escape or deliver- 
ance upon our thoughts, it was impossible, at least 
for me, to have the means of it out of mind. To this 
purpose, 1 marked out several trees which I thought 
lit for our work, and I set Fridciy and his father to 
cutting them down ; and then I caused the Spaniard, 
to whom I imparted my though ta, on that affair, to 
oversee and direct their work : I showed them with 
what indefatigable pains I had hewed a large tree 
into single planks, ai|d I caused them to do the like, 
till they had made about a dozen large planks of good 
oak, near two feet broad, thirty-five feet long, and 
from two inches to four inches thick : what prodigious 
labour it took up, any one may imagine. 

At the same time, I contrived to increase my little 
flock of tjtme goats as much as I could : and to this 
purpose I made Friday and the Spaniard to go out ont 
day, and myself with Friday the next day, for we 
took our turns ; and by this means we got about twenty 
yowegrJkids t3 breed up with the rest ; for whenever 
we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and^dded^them 
to our flock ; but, above all, the season for curing 
the grapes coming on, I caused suclx a prodigious 
quantity to be.h\ing up in the sun, that I believe, had 
we been af. Alicant, where the raisins of the sun are 
cured, we should have filled sixty c.* eighty barrels ; 
and these, with our bread, were a great part of our 
food, and very good living too, I assure you ; fgr it 
is an exceedingly nourishing food. 

It was now harvest, aiid our crop in good order ; 
it was not the most plentiful increase I had seen in 
the island; but, however, it was enough to answer 
our end, for from twenty-two bushels of barley, we 
brought in and thrashed out above two hundred and 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 285 

twenty bushels, and the like in proportion of the rice, 
which was store enough for our food to the next har- 
vest, though all the sixteen Spaniards nad been on 
shor^ with me ; or^ if vve had been ready for a voyage, 
it would very plentiflljy have victualled our ship, 
to have carried us to any part of the world, that is to 
say, of America. \Vhen we had thus housed and 
secured our magazine of corn, we fell to work to make 
moi;e >icker-work, namely, great baskets, in which 
we kept it ; and the Spaniard was very handy and 
dexterous at this j)art, and often blamed me that I 
did not make some things for defence, of this kind of 
work ; but I saw no need of it. And now, having a 
full supply of food for all* the guests expected, I gave 
the Spaniard leave to go over tefthe main, to^ee what 
he could do with those he left behind him there : I 
gave him a strict charge in wjriting not to bring any 
man with him who would not first swear, in the 
presence of himself and of the old savage, that he 
would no way injure, fight with, or attack the person 
4 ie sliould find in the island, who was so*kiifd to send 
for them, in order to their deliverance ; but that they 
would stand by and defend him against all such 
attempts ; and, wherev.er they went, \^ald be entirely 
under, and subjected to his command ; and that tBis 
shoufd be^put in writing, and signed with their hands : 
how we were to* have this done, when I knew they had 
nei^er pen nor ink, that, indeed, yas a question 
which we never asked. 

Under these instyiCtions, the Spaniard and the old 
savage (fjie father of Friday) went away in one of the 
canoes, which they might be said to come in, or rather 
were brought in, when they came as prisoners to be 
devoured by the savages. •• 

I gave each of them a musket with a firelock on it, 
and about eight charges of powder and ball,* charging 
them to be very good husbands of both, and not to 
use either of them, but upon urgent occasions. 



:286 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

This was a cheerful work, being the first measures 
used by me view of my deliverance for now twenty- 
seven years and some days. I gave them provisions 
of bread, and of dried grapes, ^ufiiqient for them^jelves 
for many days, and sufficie3j| for their countrymen 
for about eight days' time ; and, wishing them a good 
voyage, I let them go, agreeing with them about a 
signal they should hang out, at their return, by which 
I should know them again, when they came at 
a distance,- before they came on shore. 

They went away with a fair gale on the day that 
the moon was at full— by my account in the month 
of October — but as for the exact reckoning of days, 
after I had' once lost it, I could never recover it again ; 
nor had t^I kept the number of years so punctually as 
to be sure that I was right, though, as it proved when 
I afterwards examined my account, I found I had 
kept a true reckoning of years. 

It was no less than eight days I waited for them, 
when a strange and unforeseen accident intervened, 
of which* the like has not. perhaps, been heard of ir. 
history. I was fast asleep in my hutch one morning, 
when my man Friday came running in to me, and 
Cjlltei-Aloud, Master, master, they are come, they are 
come!" 

I jumped up, and, regardless of danger; I went out 
as soon as I could get my clothes On, through my 
little grove — which, by the way, was by this time 
grown to be ^ very thick wood — I say, regardless of 
danger, I went without my arms/ which was not my 
custom to do ; but I was surprised, when, turning 
my eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat at abopt a 
league and a half’s distance, standing in for shore, 
with a shoulder-of-muttoii sail, as they call it, and 
the wind blowing pretty fair to bring them in. Also 
I observed presently, that they did not come from that 
side which the shore lay on, but from the southermost 
end of the island. Upon this I called Friday in, and 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


2Sy 

bade him lie close, for these were not the people we 
looked for, and that we did not know ^yet whether 
they were friends or enemies. 

In ^the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective 
glass, to see what t coitl^ make of them ; and, having 
taken the ladder out, t climbed up to the top of the 
hill, as I used to do when 1 was apprehensive of any- 
thing, and to take my view the plainer without being 
discpvf^od. . , 

1 had scarce set my foot on the hill, when my eye 
plainly discovered a ship lying at an anclior, at about 
two leagues and a half's distance from me, south- 
south-east, but not above a league and a half from 
the shore. By my observation it appeared plainly »to 
be an English ship, and the bdht appeared Xo be an 
Engli^i long-boat. ♦ 

I cannot express the confusion I was in, though the 
joy of seeing a ship, and one which I had reason to 
believe was manned by my own countrymen, and 
consequently friends, was such as I cannot describe ; 
i)ut yet I had some secret, doubts huiig*abdui me, I 
cannot tell from whence they came, bidding me keep 
upon my guard. In the first place, it occurred tq me 
to consider what businpss an English litxip could ^haye 
in that part of the world ; since it was not the way lo 
or frdm any ^art of the world where the Englisli had 
any traffic, ancJ I knew there had been no storms to 
dri\;e them in there, as in distress ; apd that if they 
were really English, it was most probable^ that they 
were here upon no gpcld design ; and that I*had bettor 
continue, as I was, than fall into the hands of thieves 
and murderers. , 

Lfet no man despise the secret hints and notices of 
danger which sometimes am given him, when he may 
think there is no possibility of its being real. That 
such hints and notices are given us, I believo few that 
have made any observation of things can deny ; that 
they are certain discoveries of an^ invisible world, and 



288 


ROBINSON CRUSOE 


a converse of spirits, we cannot doubt ; and if the 
tendency of them seems to be to warn us of danger, 
why should "we not suppose they are from some 
friendly agent (whether supreme, or inferior ,and 
subordinate is not the questipii), and they are given 
for our good ? \ 

The present question abundantly confirms me in 
the justice of this reasoning ; for had I not been made 
cautious by this secret admonition, come from iyl^fnce 
it will, I had been undone inevitably, and in a far 
worse condition than before, as you will see pre- 
sently. 

I had not kept m37self long in this posture, but I 
sav'' the boad draw near the shore, as if they looked 
for a creek to thrust in at for the convenience of land- 
ing ; however, as tliey did not come quite far enough, 
they did not see the little inlet where I formerly landed 
my rafts, but ran their boat on shore upon the beach, 
at about half a mile from me, which was very happy 
for me ; for otherwise they would have landed just, 
as I may say, at my door, and would have soon beaten 
me out of my castle, and, perhaps, have plundered 
me of all I had. 

When they -..•■ere on shore, I was fully satisfied they 
wfieTinglishmen, at least, most of them ; one or two 
I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so. There 
were, in all, eleven men, whereof three of them I 
found were unarmed and (as I thought) bound, and 
when the first four or five of them were jumped on shore 
they took those three out of the boat as prisoners. 
One of the three I could perceive using the most 
passionate gestures of entreaty, affliction, and despair, 
even to a kind of extravagance ; the other two, I 
could perceive, lifted up their hands sometimes, and 
appeared concerned indeed, but not to such a degree 
as the first. 

I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew 
not what the meaning of it should be ; Friday called 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 289 

out to me, in English, as well as he could, Oh, master I 
you see Englisli mans eat prisoners as well as savage 
mans/' “ Wiy," said I, “ Friday, do ydu think they 
are going to eat them then ? " “Yes," says Friday, 
“ th(*y will eat lh^lhi/'|“ No, no," said I, “ Friday ; I 
am, afraid they will minkJer them indeed ; but you may 
be sure they wi?l not eat them." 

All this while I had no thought of what the matter 
really was, but stood treiiibling with the horror of the 
sight, &pecting every moment when the three prisoners 
slxould be killed ; nay, once I saw one of the villains 
lift up his arm with a great cutlass (as the seamen 
call it) or sword, to strike one of the poor men.; and 
I expected to see him fall every momer#t, at which 
all the blood in my body seemed to run chjll in my 
veins. ^ # 

I \'^ished heartily now for pur Spaniard, and the 
savage that was gone with him ; or that I had any 
way to have come undiscovered within shot of them, 
that I might have rescued the three men ; for I saw 
po fire-arms they had amon^ them ; but* it fell out to 
my mind another way. 

After I had observed the outrageous usage of the 
three men by the insolent seamen, I obsoir/ed the fellows 
run scattering about the land, as if they wanteci*1to 
see the cdTuiLty. I observed also, that the three other 
men had liberty to go w^here they pleased : but they 
sat down all three upon the ground very pensive, and 
look*ed like men in despair. 

This put me ii\ii^ind of the first time* when I canje 
on shore, and began to look about me : how I gave 
myself over for lost, how wildly I looked round me, 
whA*t dreadful apprehensions I had, and how I lodged 
in the tree all night for fear.pf being devoured by wild 
beasts. 

As I knew nothing that night of the supply I was 
to receive by the providential driving of the ship 
nearer the land by the storms aijd tides, by which I 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


390 

have since been so long nourished and supported ; 
so these three poor desolate men knew nothing how 
certain of deliverance and supply they were, how near 
it was to them, and how effectually and really they 
were in a condition of safety, ut the same time they 
thought themselves lost, and their case desperate. 

So little do we see before us in the world, and so 
much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon the 
great Maker of the world, that. He does not leaye^ His 
creatures so absolutely destitute, but that in the Worst 
circumstances they have always something to be 
thankful for, and sometimes are nearer their deliver- 
ance than they imagine — nay, are even brought to 
their deliverance by the means by which they seem 
to be brought to their destruction. 

It was just at ,the top of high water when these 
people came on shore, and while partly they stood 
parleying with the prisoners they brought, and partly 
while they rambled about to see what kind of place 
they were in, they had cai'elessly stayed till the tide 
was spent, and the water was ebbed considerabh^ 
away, leaving their boat aground. 

They had left tw’o men in the boat, who, as I found 
afterwards, hriving drunk a little too much brandy, 
MPasleep ; however, one of them wakened sooner 
than the other, and finding the boat tocr^t aground 
for him to stjr it, hallooed for the rest who were strag- 
gling about, upon which they all soon came to ^ the 
boat ; but it was past all their strength to launch her, 
the boat being very heavy, and tiie shore on that 
side being a soft oozy sand, almost like a quick- 
sand. 

In this condition, like true seamen, who are, perhaps, 
the least of all mankind giyen to forethought, they gave 
it over, and away they strolled about the country 
again ; and I heard one of them say aloud to another 
(calling them off from the boat), ** Why, let her alone, 
Jack, can*t ye ? she’li'Tioat next tide.'' By which I 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


291 

was fully coiilirmed in the main inquiry, of what 
countrymen they were. 

All this while I kept myself close, noi once daring 
to stir out of m3^ castle, anj' farther than to my place 
of observation, near thfe top of the hill ; and very glad 
I was to think how vipll it was fortified. I knew it 
was no less than ten hdurs before the boat could be on 
float again, and by that time it would be dark and I 
miglit be more at liberty 'to sec their motions, and to 
hear lifeir discourse, if ‘they had any. 

In the meantime, I fitted myself up for a battle, 
as before, though •with more caution, knowing I had 
to do with anotlier kind of enemy than I had at first ; 
I ordered Friday also, wlpm I had made^^an excellent 
marksman with his gun, to load himself with arms— I 
^took myself two fowling-pieces and I gave him three 
muskets. My figure, indeed, was very fierce : I had 
my formidable goat-skin coat* on, with the great cap 
I mentioned, a naked sword, two pistols in my belt, 
and a gun upon each shoulder. - 

^ It was my design, as I said above, not* to have made 
any attempt till it was da/k ; but about two o'clock, 
being the heat of the day, I found that, in short, they 
were all gone straggling into the \^ods, and, •as I 
thought, were all laid 'down to sleep. The three fioor 
distsessed pen, too anxious for their condition to get 
any sleep, wer^, however, set down under the shelter of 
a ^reat tree, at about a quarter of a mile ‘from me, and, 
as 1 thought, out of sight of any of the rest. 

Upon this I resolyed to discover mys^df to them, 
and learn somefliiAg of their condition. Immediately 
I marched in the figure above, my man Friday at a 
good distance behind me, as formidable for his arms 
as I, but not making qujte so staring a spectre-like 
figure as I did. * • 

I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and 
then, before any of them saw me, I called aloud to 
them, in Spanish, “ What are ye, gentlemen ? " 

R.C. • 


K 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


292 

They started up at the noise, but were ten times 
more confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth 
figure that I -made — they made no answer at all, but 
I thought I perceived them just going to fly from me, 
when I spoke to them in Ei^lish : " Gentlemen,** 
said I, ** do not be surprised ac/ne ; perhaps you may 
have a friend near you, when you did'-not expect it." 
" He must be sent directly from Heaven, then,** said 
one of them, very gravely, to me, pulling off his hat 
at the same time, " for our condition is past tfiG T'lelp 
of man.** All help is from Heaven, sir 1 " said I ; 
" but can you put a stranger in the way how to help 
you, for you seem to me to be in great distress ? I 
saw you when you landed ; and when you seemed to 
make application to the brutes that came with you, 
I saw one ‘of them lift up his sword to kill you.** 

The poor man, with tears running down his* face, 
and trembling, looking like one astonished, returned. 
" Am I talking to God or man ? Is it a real man or an 
angel I ** " Be in no fear about that, sir," said I : "if 
God had sent an angel to relieve you, he would have, 
come better clothed, and better armed after another 
manner than you see me in. Pray, lay aside your 
fears ; I am q^^man, — an Englishman, and disposed 
to m&ist you ; you see I have one servant only — we 
have arms and ammunition; tell us freely," cai> we 
serve you ? Wliat is your case ? ** 

" Our case,'"* said he, " sir, is too long to tell you 
while our murderers are so near ; but, in short, sir, 
I was commander of that ship ; my men having 
miltinied against me, "they have be6n hardly prevailed 
on not to murder me, and at last they have set me 
on shore in this desolate place, with those two men 
with me, one my mate, the other a passenger, where 
we expected to perish, believing the place to be un^ 
inhabited, and know not yet what to think of it.** 

" Where" are those brutes, your enemies ? ** said I ; 
** do you know where they are gone ? ** " Theie they 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 29a 

are, sir/* said he, pointing to a thicket of trees ; my ^ 
heart trembles for fear they have seen us, and heard ' 
you speak ; if they have, they will certainly murder 
us all." 

Have they anjr fire-arms ? " said L He answered, 

“ They had only two jDieces, and one which they left 
in the boat/' " Well, then," said I, " leave the rest 
to me : I see they are asleep ; it is an easy thing to 
kilj tl^ejn all, but shall , we rather take them prisoners ? " 
He told me there were two desperate villains among 
them, that it was scarce safe to show any mercy to ; 
but if they were secured, he believed all the rest would 
return to their duty : I asked him which they were ? 
He told me he could not at that distance describe them; 
but he would obey my order*^ in anything I would 
^.direct. " Well," said I, " let us retreat out of their 
view or hearing, lest they awake, and we will resolve 
further ; " so they willingly went back with me, till 
the woods covered us from them. 

" Look you, sir," said I, " if I venture upon youi^ 
•deliverance, are you willing to make two conditions 
with me ? " He anticipated my proposals by telling 
me, that both he and the ship, if recovered, should be 
wholly directed and commanded by in everytliing ; 
and if the ship was not recovered, he would live'- and 
die tvith*n*e*in what part of the world soever I would 
send him ; and the two other men said the same. 

“ Well," said I, " my conditions are but two : 
First, that while you stay on this island with me, you 
will not pretend tp any authority here ; ^d if I jput 
arms into your hands, you will upon all occasions 
give them up to me and do no prejudice to me or mine, 
u^n this island, and in the meantime to be governed 
hy orders. Second, that»,if the ship is, or may be 
recovered, you will carry me and my man to England, 
passage free." , 

He gave me all the assurance that the invention 
or faith of a man could devise, ^that he would comply 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


^94 

with these most reasonable demands ; and besides 
would owe his life to me, and acknowledge it upon 
all occasions hs long as he lived. 

Well, then,” said I, " here are three muskets for 
you, with powder and ball ; fell me next what' you 
think is proper to be done.*' ' lie showed all the testi- 
mony of his gratitude that he was able, but offered 
to be wholly guided by me ; I told him I thought it 
was hard venturing anything, but the best m^^hod I 
could think of was, to fire upon them at once as they 
lay ; and if any were not killed at the first volley, and 
offered to submit, we might save them, and so put it 
wholly upon God's providence to direct the shot. 

He said, very modestly, that he was loath to kill 
them if he could hel|S it ; but that those two were 
incorrigible villains, and had been the authors of all 
the mutiny in the ship, and, if they escaped, we should 
be undone still ; for they would go on board, and bring 
the whole ship's company and destroy us all. Well, 
'then," said I, " necessity legitimates my advice ; for 
it is the only Way to save our lives," However, seeing 
him still cautious of shedding blood, I told him they 
should go themselves, and- manage as they found 
convenient. 

ftrthe middle of this discourse, we heard some of 
them awake, and soon after we saw twcTof'thein on 
their feet. I aisked him if either of them were the men 
who he had said were the heads of the mutiny ? He 
said, "No." ‘"Well, then," said I, "you may let 
them escapft, ^d Providence secnis ^o have wakened 
them on purpose to save themselves. Now," said I, 
“ if the rest escape you, it is your fault." 

Animated with this, he took' the musket I had gilp^en 
him in his hand, and pistol in his belt, and his two 
comrades with him, with ^ach man a piece in his hand ; 
the two men who were with him going first, made 
some noise, at which one of the seamen, who was awake, 
turned about, and, seeing them coming, cried out to 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 295 

the rest ; but it was too late then, for the moment he • 
cried out they fired, I mean the two men, the captain 
wisely reserving his own piece : they had so well 
aimed their shot at tlfe men they knew, that one of 
th^ was killed on the 6pot and the other very much 
wounded ; but .not being dead, he started up on his 
feet and called eagerly for help to the other : but the 
captain stepping to him, •told him it was too late to 
cry help, he shouM call upon God to forgive his 
villainy ; and with that word knocked hin! down with 
the stock of his nuisket, so that he never spoke more : 
there were three more in the company, and one of 
them was also slightly wounded. By this tim 5 I was 
come ; and when they saw theij danger, ^nd it was in 
^^vain to resist, they begged for mercy. Tl*e captain 
‘’told Them he would spare their lives* if they would give 
him any assurance of their abhorrence of the treachery 
they had been guilty of, and would swear to be faithful 
to him in recovering the ship, and afterwards in carry-^ 
ing her back to Jamaica, from when^ie they came. 
*They gave him all the prekestations of their sincerity 
that could be desired, jmd he wns willing to believe 
them, and spare their lives, which I was not against ; 
only I obliged him to keep them bound, hand and foot, 
whik tbey^ were upon the island. 

While this vjas doing, I sent Friday with the captain's 
mate to the boat with orders to secure her, and bring 
aWay the oars and sail, whidi they did ; and by-and- 
by, three straggling ijien, that were (happily for them) 
parted from tlib Test, came back upon hearing <he 
guns fired ; and seeing their captain, who before was 
th«ir prisoner, now th«ir conqueror, they submitted 
to be bound also — and so our victory was complete. 

It now remained that'ltke captain and I should 
inquire into one another's circumstances, I began 
first, and told him my whole history, which he heard 
with an attention even to amazement, and particularly 
at the wonderful manner of m^^ being furnished with 



2^6 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

provisions and ammunition ; and, indeed, as my 
whole story i^ a collection of wonders, it affected him 
deeply : but when he reflected from thence upon him- 
self, and how I seemed to hav^ bee,n preserved there 
on purpose to save his life, the tears ran down his 
face, and he could not speak a word ino;:e. 

After this communication was at an end, I carried 
him and his two men into, my apartments, leading 
them in just where I came out, namely, at the*t*f.of 
the house ; • where I refreshed them with such pro- 
visions as I had, and showed them alj the contrivances 
I had made during my long, long inhabiting that 
place. • 

iAll I showed them, all I sa*id to them, was perfectly 
amazing ; ^ but, above*' all, the captain admired my 
fortification ; and ‘how perfectly I had concealed my 
retreat with a grove of trees, which, having now been 
planted near twenty years, and the trees growing much 
faster than in England, was become a little wood, and 
so thick that it was imi^assable in any part of it, but 
at that one side where I had reserved my little winding ■ 
passage into it ; this I told him was my castle and 
my residence ; hut that I hid a seat in the country, 
as most princes* 'have, whither. I could retreat upon 
occasion, and I would show him that tog, another 
time ; but at present our business wsp^tb consider 
how to recover the ship. He agreed mth me as to 
that, but told tne he was perfectly at a loss what 
measures to taj^e ; for that there were still six-and- 
twenty hands on board, who, hS.ving entered into a 
cursed conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited 
their lives to the law, would J)e hardened in it npw 
by desperation ; and would cairy it on, knowing that, 
if they were reduced, they* 'should be brought to the 
gallows as soon as they came to England, or to any of 
the English colonies ; ' and that therefore there would 
be no attacking them with so small a number as we 
were. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 297 

I, mused for some time upon what he had said, and ‘ 
found it was a very rational conclusion, and that 
^ therefore something was to be resolved on very 
speedily, as well to drlw the men on board into some 
snafe for their surprir^, as to prevent their landing 
upon us, and destroyilhg us. Upon this, it presently 
occurred to me, that in a little while the ship's crew, 
wondering what was become of their comrades, and 
oU^t’he^boat, would certainly come on shore in their 
other boat to seek for them ; and that then perhaps 
they might come armed, and be too strong for us ; 
this he allowed was rational. 

Upon this, I told him .the first thing we haS to do 
was to stave the boat, which fey upon the beachr so 
*Jhat^they might not carry her oft ; and taking every- 
thing out of her, leave her so far useless as not to be 
fit to swim ; accordingly, v?e went on board, took 
the arms which w^ere left on board out of her, and 
whatever else we found there — which was a bottle oi* 
.brandy and another of rum, a few biscuit cakes, a 
horn of powder, and a greht lump of sugar in a piece 
of canvas— the sugar w^s five or six pounds ; dl of 
which was very welcome to me, especially the brandy 
and sugai, of which I Had had none left for many jiears. 

Wheirwc*had carried all these things on shore (the 
oars, mast, sail, and rudder of the boat were carried 
before, as above), we knocked a grea*t hole in her 
bottom, that if they had come strong enough to master 
us, yet they could not carry off the boat# Indeed, it 
was not much in mV thoughts, thht we could be capable 
to recover the ship ; but my view was, that if they went 
away without the boalf, I did not much question to 
make her fit again to car^ us away to the Leeward 
Islands, and call upon our* friends the Spaniards in 
my way, for I had them still in my thoughts. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


^98 


CHAPTER XVIII 

Ship signals for her Boat — Rec-ives no answer — Sends 
another — We secure this Bcvat’s Crew, and recover 
the Ship. 

Whii-E we were thus preparing our designs, had 
first by main strength heaved the boat up upon the 
beach, so high that the tide would not float her off at 
high water mark, and, besides, had broken a hole in 
her bottom too big to be quickly stopped, and were 
sat' down musing whpt we should do, we heard the 
ship fire a gun, and saw her make a waft with her 
ancient, as a signhl for the boat to come on board ; 
but no boat stirred ; and they fired several times, 
making other signals for the boat. 

- At last, when all their signals and firings proved 
fruitless, and they found the boat did not stir, we saw; 
them (by the help of our glasses) hoist another boat 
out, and row towards the shore ; and we found, as 
they approached, that there were no less than ten 
mea. in her, and that they* had fire-aims with 
them. . 

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, 
we had a full 'view of them as they came, and a plain 
sight of the men, even of their faces ; because the 
tide having set them a little to , the east of the other 
boat, they rowed up under shore, to dome to the same 
place where the other had landed, and where the boat 
lay. 

By this means, I say, we had a full view of them, 
and the captain knew tkd' persons and chameters of 
all the men in the boat : of whom he said that there 
were thred very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were 
led into this conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered 
and frightened ; but that for the boatswain, who. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 299 

it seems, was the chief officer among them, and all 
the rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship's 
crew; and were, no doubt, made desperate in their 
new . enterprise ; and |terribly apprehensive he was 
that they would be too^ powerful for us. 

smiled at him, ai/d told him, that men in our 
circumstances were past the operations of fear : that 
seeing almost every condition that could be was 
betj f’T. ihan that we were supposed to be in, we ought 
to expect that the consequences, whether death or life, 
would be sure to be a deliverance : I asked him, what 
he thought of tfie circumstances of my life, and 
whether a deliverance were not worth venturing for ? 

And where, sir,” said I,* ” is your belief of my bejng 
preserved here on purpose to %ave your l^e, which 
'Tlevaied you a little while ago ? Kor my part,” said 
I, ” there seems to be only oije thing amiss in all the 
prospect of it.” ” What's that ? ” says he. ” Why,” 
said I, ” 'tis that, as you say, there are three or four 
honest fellows among them, which should be spared \ 
•had they been all of the wicked part bf the crew, I 
should have thought God's providence had singled 
them out to deliver th^m into your hands : for, 
depend upon it, every jnan of them tfiat comes ashore 
are our^own, and shall die or live, as they behave 
to us.” • " ^ 

As I spoke *this with a raised voice* and cheerful 
countenance, I found it greatly encouraged him ; so 
we set vigorously to our business. We^ had, upon the 
first appearance* oi the boat's coming from the sljip, 
considered of separating our prisoners, and had indeed 
seared them effectually. 

Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured 
than ordinary, I sent with^ Friday, and one of the 
three (delivered men) to my cave, where they were 
remote enough, and out of danger of being heard or 
discovered, or of finding their way out of the woods, 
if they could have delivered t^jemselves : here they 



300 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

left them bound, but gave them provisions, and 
promised them, if thciy continued there quietly, to 
give them their liberty in a day or two : but that if 
they attempted their escape, they should be put to 
death without mercy. They jjroiriised faithfully to 
bear their confinement with |5?-tience, and were very 
thankful that they had such good usiige as to have 
provisions and a light left them ; for Friday gave 
them candles (such as we made ourselves), fqj^heir 
comfort ; and they did not know but that he stood 
sentinel over them at the entrance. 

The other prisoners had better us^tge : two of them 
were kept pinioned indeed, because the captain was 
not free to ti:ust them ; but the other two were taken 
into my service upon kheir captain’s recommendation, 
and upon their solemnly engaging to live and die with, 
us ; so, with them and the three honest men, we were 
seven men well armed ; amd I made no'doubt we should 
be able to deal well enough with the ten that were 
d,-coming, considering that the captain had said 
there were three or four honest men amongst them, 
also. 

As soon as they got to the place where their other 
boat lay, they ra/?- their boat into the beach, and came 
all on shore, hauling the boat up after them, which I 
was glad to see ; for I was afraid they \^auld rather 
have left the boat at an anchor, some 'distance from 
the shore, with some hands in her to guard her ; 
so we should nofbe able to seize the boat. 

Being on 'ohdre, the first thing they did, they ran 
all fo the other boat ; and it was easy to see they were 
under a great surprise to find her stripped, as" above, 
of all that was in her, and* a great hole in Her 
bottom. 

After they had mused ^awhile upon this, they set 
up two or fhree great shouts, hallooing with all their 
might to try if they could make their companions hear; 
but all was to no purpose ; then they came all close 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 301 

in a ring, and fired a volley of their small-arms, which, ^ 
indeed, we heard, and the echoes made the woods" 
ring ; but it was all one : those in the have, we were 
sure, could not hear ; those in our keeping, though 
they heard it well enough, yet durst give no answer 
tiythem. ^ • * 

^They were so astonished at the surprise of this, 
that, as they told us afterwards, they resolved to go 
alV '^^ •board again to tlieir ship, and let them know 
there that the men were all murdered, ajid the long- 
boat staved ; accordingly, they immediately launched 
the boat again, ^d got all of them on board. 

The captain was terribly amazed, and ev-en con- 
founded at this, believing they would tgo on bjard 
the ship again, and set sail, giving their comrades up 
•for lost, and so he should still los^ the ship, which he 
was in hopes we should hav^ recovered ; but he was 
quickly as much frightened the other way. 

They had not been long put off with the boat, but 
we perceived them all coming on shore again ; buf, 
with this new measure in tjieir conduct, Vhich, it seems, 
they consulted together upon, namely, to leave three 
men in the boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go 
up into the country i;o look for thei^fellows. • 

This^was a great disappointment to us ; for now 
we* were ttf a loss what to do ; for our seizing those 
seven men oh shore would be no adv^mtage to us if 
we let the boat escape, because they would then row 
away to the ship ; and then the rest of them would 
be sure to weigh, and set sail,, and so ohr recovering 
the ship would be lost. 

However, we had ^o remedy but to wait and see 
what the issue of things might present. The seven 
men came on shore, and. the three who remained in 
the boat put her off to a good distance from the shore, 
and came to an anchor to wait for them^ so that it 
was impossible for us to come at them in the boat. 

Those that came on shorg kept close together. 



302 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

marching towards the top of the little hill, under which 
my habitation lay ; and we could see them plainly, 
though they could not perceive us; we could have 
been very glad they would ha^e come nearer to us, 
so that we might have fired at them ; or that they 
would have gone farther off, that we might have cei^ie 
abroad. 

But when they were come to the brow of the hill, 
where they could see a great vra.y in the vaHc,3fe«nd 
woods, which lay towards the north-east part, and 
where the island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed 
till they were weary ; and not caring, it seems, to ven- 
ture far from the shore, nor far from one another, 
they sat down together under a tree to consider of 
it. Had they thought ‘^fit to have gone to sleep there, 
as the other partyr of them had done, they had done 
the job for us ; but they were too full of apprehensions 
of danger to venture to go to sleep, though they could 
not tell what the danger was they had to fear neither. 

The captain made a very just proposal to me upon 
this consultation of thcir§, namely, that, perhaps, 
they would all fire a volley again to endeavour to make 
their fellows hear, and that »ve should all sally upon 
them' just at the juncture when their pieces were all 
discharged, and they would certainly yield,^,and we 
should have them without bloodshed. *1^- liked ' the 
proposal, provided it was done while \ve were near 
enough to come up to them before they could load 
their pieces again. 

But this event did, not happen, /ind we lay still a 
long time very irresolute what course to ta)ce ; at 
length I told them there would be nothing to be done, 
in my opinion, till night ; and then, if they did not 
return to the boat, perhaps we might find a w^ay to 
get between them and the shore, and so might use 
some stratagem with them in the boat to get them 
on shore. 

We waited a great^ while, though very impatient 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


303 

for their removing, and were very uneasy ; when, 
after long consultations, we saw them start all up, and 
march down toward the sea ; it seen\s they had such 
dreadful apprehension^ upon them of the danger of 
the place, that th*ey resolved to go on board the ship 
agisin, give their coinwhions over for lost, and so go 
on with their ihtended voyage with the ship. 

soon as I perceived them go towards the shore, 
I ^^agined it to be, as it really was, that they had 
given over their search, and were for going back again ; 
and the captain, as soon as I had told him my thoughts, 
was ready to sinlv at the apprehensions of it ; but I 
presently thought of a stratagem to bring thepi back 
again, and which answered my end to a tittle. 

I ordered Priday and the captain’s mate to go dver 
--the Jittle creek westward, towarc^ the place where 
the savages came on shore when Friday was rescued ; 
and as soon as they came to *a little rising ground, at 
about half a mile’s distance, I bade them halloo as 
loud as they could, and wait till they found the sea* 
• men heard them ; that as^soon as ever*they heard the 
seamen answer them, they should return it again, 
and then keeping out of sight take a round, always 
answering when the others hallooed;»to draw them as 
far into the island, and among the woods, as possible, 
and* then wiieel about again to me, by such ways as 1 
directed. * 

■They were just going into the boat when Friday and 
the mate hallooed, and they preseiltly heard them, 
and answering, 4 ‘ap along the shore wc’fetward, towards 
the voi^e they heard, when they were presently stojJped 
b;^ the creek, where, the water being up, they could 
not get over, and callecl for the boat to come up and 
set them over, as indeed expected. 

When they had set thdhiselves over, I observed 
that the boat being gone up a good way in^p the creek, 
and, as it were, in a harbour within the land, they 
took one of the three men out of her to go along with 



3P4 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

them, and left only two in the boat, having fastened 
her to the stump of a little tree on the shore. 

This was wLat I wished for, and immediately leaving 
Friday and the captain's mate to their business, I 
took the rest with me, and crossing the creek out of 
their sight, we surprised the two men before they wpve 
aware, one of them lying on the shore, and the other 
being in the boat ; the fellow on shore was between 
sleeping and waking, and, going to start up, the c^pUin, 
who was foremost, ran in upon him and knockecfnim 
down, and then called out to him in the boat to yield, 
or he was a dead man. 

Ther(j needed very few arguments to persuade a 
single man tp yield, when he* saw live men upon him, 
and his comrade knocked down : besides, this was, 
it seems, <5ne of the three who were not so hearty in* 
the mutiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore was 
easily persuaded not only to yield, but afterwards to 
join very sincerely with us. 

' In the meantime, Friday and the captain’s mate 
so well manage J their business with the rest, that they , 
drew them by hallooing and answering, from one hill 
to another, and from one wood to another, till they 
not only heai tily^tired them, but left them where they 
were very sure tliey could not reach back to the boat 
before it was dark ; and indeed, they were near tily 
tired themselves also by the time they came back 
to us. ' 

We had nothing now to do but to watch for them 
in the dark, and to fall upon then?, so ,^s to make sure 
work with them. 

It was several hours after Friday came back to me 
before they came back to their boat — and we corfld 
hear the foremost of thenj, long before they came 
quite up, calling to those ‘behind to come along — ^and 
could also hear them answer, and complain how lame 
and tired they were, and not being able to come any 
faster, which was very welcome news to us. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 305 

At length they came up to the boat ; but it is ^ 
impossible to express their confusion when they found ' 
the boat fast aground in the creek, the tide ebbed out, 

* and their two men ^ne : we could hear them call 
to one another in a mpst lamentable manner, telling 
olic another thCjy were,^ottcn into an enchanted island; 
tl^t either there were inhabitants in it, and they should 
all be murdered ; or elsg there were devils or spirits 
in^lt, •and they should be all carried away and 
devoured. 

They hallooed again, and called their two comrades 
by their names a great many times, but no answer : 
after some time, we could see them, by the little light 
there was, run about wringing their haitds, like jnen 
in despair ; and that sometirftes they woyld go and 

• 'sit down in the boat to rest themselves, then come 
ashore, and walk about agaiy, and so the same thing 
over again. 

My men would fain have had me give them leave 
to Ml upon them at once in the dark ; but I wa% 

’* willing to take them at spme advantage, so to spare 
them, and kill as few of them as I could ; and especially 
I was unwilling to haza/d the killing any of our men, 
knowing the other men were very well arm^d : 1 
resolved to wait to see if they did not separate ; and 
therefore, •to make sure of them, I drew my ambuscade 
nearer, and ordered Friday and the captain to creep 
upon their hands and feet as close to the ground as 
they could, that they might not be discovered, and 
get as near thorn# a§ they could possibly^, before they 
offered, to fire. 

^They had not been, long in that posture, till the 
boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of the 
mutiny, and had now shorwn himself the most dejected 
and dispirited of all the rest, came walking towards 
them with two more of the crew ; the captain was so 
eager, at having the principal rogue so much in his 
power, that he could hardly hjive patience to let him 



3o6 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

come so near as to be sure of him ; for they only 
heard his tongne before ; but when tlicy came nearer, 
the captain and Friday, starting up on their feet, let 
fly at them. 

The boatswain was killed upon the spot ; the next 
man was shot in the body, and Tell just by him, thonigh 
he did not die till an hour or two after ; and the third 
ran for it. 

At the noise of the fire, I immediately a^v^aered 
with my whole army, which was now eight men ; 
namely, myself, generalissimo ; Friday, my lieutenant- 
generi ; the captain and his two men, and the three 
prisoners of war, wliom we had trusted with arms. 

We came < upon them indeed in the dark, so that 
they could not see our^number ; and I made the man 
they had left in the boat, who was now one of uo, ta 
call them by name, to try if I could bring them to a 
parley and so might perhaps reduce them to terms, 
which fell out just as we desired ; for indeed it was 
easy to think, as their condition then was, they would 
be very willing* to capitulate ; so he calls out as loud • 
as he could to one of them, ** Tom Smith ! '^'om 
Smith I ** Tom Smith answered immediately, “ Who's 
that ?' Robinsoi>? " For it seems he knew his voice, 
llie other answered, Ay, ay ; for God's sake, Tom 
Smith, throw down your arms, and yields you are 
all dead men this moment." 

" Who must we yield to ? where are they ? " says 
Smith again. " Here they are," says he ; " here is 
our captain Sind fifty rnen with him, .have been hunting 
you this two hours ; the boatswain is killed, Wih Fry 
is wounded, and I am a prisoner, and if you do not 
yield, you are aU lost." * * 

" Will they give us quarter, then ? " says Tom 
Smith, " and we will yield." " I'll go and ask, if you 
promise to. yield," says Robinson. So he asked the 
captain, and the captain himself then calls out, “You, 
Smith, you know my^ voice ; if you lay down your 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 307 

arms immediately and submit, you shall have your 
lives, all but Will Atkins/* 

Upon this Will Atkins cried out, “ For God's sake, 
captain, give me guarlier ! What have I done ? They 
have all been as bad as, I " (which, by the way, was 
nCTl^truc either ; for it.^cems this W’^ill Atkins was the 
filigt man that laid hold of the captain when they first 
mutinied, and used hiii\ barbarously, in tying his 
haijds %nd giving him. injurious language). However, 
the captain told him he must lay down his arms at 
discretion, and trust to the governor’s mercy, by 
which be meant me ; for they all called me governor. 

In a word, they all laid down their arms, and^Dcgged 
their lives : and I sent •the man that had parleyed 
with them, and two more, whef bound then^ aU ; and 
thci> my great army of fifty men, which, particularly 
with those three, were in ^1 .but eight, came up and 
seized upon them all, and upon their boat ; only that 
I kept myself and one more out of sight, for reasons 
of state. 

• Our next work was to r<ipair the boat, and to think 
of seizing the ship ; and as for the captain, now he 
had leisure to parley with them, he expostulated with 
them upon the villainy of their practices with* him, 
and atjiength, upon the further wickedness of their 
design ; andTiow certainly it must bring them to misery 
and distress id the end, and perhaps to, the gallows. 

They all appeared very penitent, begged hard for 
their lives ; as for that, he told them they were none 
of his prisoners^ hut* the commander's’ of the isla^j^d ; 
that th^y thought they had set him ashore in a barren 
uninhabited island, but^it had pleased God so to direct 
them, that the island was inhabited, and that the 
governor was an Englisbanan ; that he might hang 
them all there, if he pleased ; but as he had given 
them all quarter, he supposed he would ^end them 
to England, to be dealt with there as justice required, 
except Atkins, whom he was^ commanded by the 



3o8 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

governor to advise to prepare for death ; for that he 
would be haiiged in the morning. 

Though this was all fiction of his own, yet it had 
its desired effect. Atkins fell upon his knees to beg 
the captain to intercede with the governor for his life ; 
and all the rest begged of him, for God's sake, -ttlat 
they might not be sent to England. 

It now” occurred to me, that the time of our deliver- 
ance was come, and that it would be a nu^Gt^cvasy 
thing to bring these fellows in to be hearty in getting 
possession of the ship ; so I retirecj in the dark from 
them, that they might not see what kind of a governor 
they had, and called the captain to me ; when I 
called as at a good distance, one of the men was ordered 
to speak again, and sdJy to the captain, Captain, the 
commander calls for you ; " and presently the captain 
replied, “ Tell his Excellency I am just a-coming.” 
This more perfectly amazed them ; and they all 
believed that the commander was just by with his 
fifty men. 

Upon the captain’s coming to me, I told him my 
project for seizing the ship, which he liked wonder- 
fully well, and resolved to pift it in execution the next 
morning. *' 

But in order to execute it with more art, and to be 
secure of success, I told him we must “divide the 
prisoners, and that he should go and ta!ke Atkins, and 
two more of the worst of them, and send them pinioned 
to the cave where the others lay ; this was committed 
to Friday, and the two men who oame on shore with 
the captain. 

They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prison ; 
and it was indeed a dismal place, especially to men in 
their condition. , 

The others I ordered to my bower, as I called it, 
of which I have given a full description ; and as it 
was fenced in, and they pinioned, the place was secure 
enough, considering they were upon their behaviour. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 309. 

To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was 
to enter into a parley with them ; in a word, to try 
them, and tell me,* whether he thought* they might 
be trusted or no, to go yn board, and surprise the ship. 
He talked to theAi of the injury done him, of the 
coBcUtion they were trbught to ; and that though 
the governor had given them quarter for their lives, 
as*^ the present action, yet that if they were sent to 
En^l?pi(^ they would t)e all hanged in chains, to be 
sure ; but that if they would join in such cUi attempt 
as to recover the ship, he would have the governor’s 
engagement for their pardon. 

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal 
would be accepted by men in their condition : they 
fell down on their knees to the tap tain, and promised, 
with, the deepest imprecations, tliJ^t they would be 
faithful to him to the last drop, and that tliey should 
owe their lives to him, and would go with him all over 
the world ; that they would own him for a father to 
them as long as they lived, * 

• “ Well,*’ says the captain, " 1 must gb and tell the 
governor what you say, an(f see what I can do to bring 
him to consent to it.’* So he brought me an account 
of the temper he found them in ; and that he f erily 
believed they would be faithful. 

HoweT^eu^ liiat we might be very secure, 1 told him 
he should go btick again, and choose out, live of them, 
an<J tell them, that they should see that they did not 
want men ; but he would take out those five to be 
his assistants, ayd^that the governor would keep the 
other two, and the three that were sent prisoners* to 
the castle (my cave), as hostages for the fidelity of 
thdse five ; and that if* they proved unfaithful in the 
execution, the five hostages,should be hanged in chains 
alive upon the shore. * 

This looked severe, and convinced theiy that the 
governor was in earnest : however, they had no way 
left but to accept it : and it was now the business of 



310 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

the prisoners, as much as of the captain, to persuade 
the other five to do their duty. 

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedi- 
tion : — I. The captain, his imate, and passenger. 
2. Then the two prisoners of the first gang, to whom, 
having their characters from the captain, I had gwen 
their liberty, and trusted them with arms. 3. The 
other two whom I kept till now in my bower pinioned, 
but, upon the captain's motion, had now been rielea^d. 
4. These five released at last ; so that they were 
twelve in all, besides five we kept prisoners in the cave 
for hostages. 

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture 
with these Lands on board ihe ship ; for, as for me 
and my man Friday,'*! did not think it was proper 
for us to stir, hawing seven men left behind ; and it 
was employment enough, for us to keep them as under, 
and supply them with victuals. 

As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them 
fast ; but Friday went twice a-day to them, to supply 
them with necessaries ; asid I made the other two 
carry provisions to a certain distance, where Friday 
was to take it. ' 

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was 
with the captain, who told them I was the person 
the governor had ordered to look after tKern, and that 
it was the gevernor’s pleasure that they should not 
stir anywhere but by my direction ; that if they did, 
they shoul^ be,, fetched into the castle, and be laid in 
irons ; so that as we. never suffered ^them to see me 
as governor, so I now appeared as another person, 
and spoke of the governor, the garrison, the castle, 
and the like, upon all occasions. 

The captain now had nc difficulty before him, but 
to furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and 
man them : he made his passenger captain of one, 
with foul other men, and himself and his mate and 
five more weht in the pther ; and they contrived their 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 311 

business very well, for they came up to the ship about 
midnight. As soon as they came within call of the 
ship, he made Rol^inson hail them, and* tell them he 
had brought off the mon and the boat, but that it was 
a long time before* they had found them, and the like, 
holding them in a chjjit till they came to the ship's 
; when the captain and the mate, entering first 
with their arms, immediately knocked down the second 
maj;e a^ad carpenter with the butt end of their muskets. 
Being very faithfully seconded by their, men, they 
secured all the rest that were upon the main and 
quarter decks, and began to fasten the hatches to 
keep tliose down who were below ; when th« other 
boat and their men, entering at the fore-clmins, secujred 
the forecastle of the ship, and the scuttle, \^hich went 
down into the cock-room, making three men they 
found there prisoners. 

When this was done, and all safe upon the deck, 
the captain ordered the mate, with three men, to break 
into the round-house, where the new rebel captairf 
• lay, and, having taken the. alarm, was gotten up, and, 
with two men and a boy, had gotten fire-arms in their 
hands ; and when the mate with a crow split open the 
door, the new captain, and his men fi^ed boldly jTmong 
them, and wounded the mate with a musket-ball, 
whi?:h Broke* his arm, and w^ounded two more of the 
men, but killeTi nobody. , 

The mate, calling for help, rushed, however, into 
the round-house, wounded as he was, and with his 
pistol shot the* npw captain through* tlfe head, .the 
bullets .entering at his mouth, and came out again 
behind one of his ears, so that he never spoke a word ; 
ujJon which the rest yielded, and the ship was taken 
effectually without any w^jre lives being lost. 

As soon as the ship was* thus secured, the captain 
ordered seven guns to be fired, which wa» the signal 
agreed upon with me, to give me notice of his success ; 
which, you may be sure, I was very glad to hear. 



312 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

having sat watching upon the shore for it till near 
two of the clock in the morning. 

Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me 
down ; and it having been anday of great fatigue to 
me, I slept very sound, till I was something surprised 
with the noise of a gun ; and presently starting up, 
I heard a man call me by the name of “ Governor, 
governor ! '* and presently I knew the captain's voice ; 
when, climbing up to the top of. the hill, there he stood, 
and pointing to the ship, he embraced me in his arms: 
“ My dear friend and deliverer I " says he, *' there's 
your ship, for she is all yours, and so are we, and all 
that belong to her." I cast my eyes to the ship, and 
there she rode within a little more than half a mile 
of the shore — for they had weighed her anchor as soon 
as they were matters of her — and the weather '•being 
fair, had brought her to an anchor just against the 
mouth of a little creek ; and the tide being up, the 
captain had brought the pinnace in near the place 
where I first landed my rafts, and so landed just at 
my door, 

I was, at first, ready to sink down with the surprise; 
for I saw my deliverance indeed visibly put into my 
hands, all things easy, and a Large ship just ready to 
carry me away whither I pleased to go. At first, for 
some time, I was not able to answer one -word ; but 
as he had taken me in his arms, I heid fast by him, 
or I should have fallen to the ground. • 

He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulled 
a tbottle out of his pocket, and gave me a dram of 
cordial, which he had brought on purpose for me ; 
after I drank it, I sat dowj? upon the ground, and 
though it brought me to myself, yet it was a good 
while before I could speak' a word to him. 

All this while the poor man was in as great an 
ecstasy as I, only not under my surprise, as I was ; 
and he said a thousand kind tender things to me, to 
compose and bring ipe to myself ; but such was the 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 31a 

flood of joy in my breast, that it put all my spirits 
into confusion — at last it broke into tears, and in a 
little while after I recovered my speech. • 

Then I took my tu^n, and embraced him as my 
deliverer ; and wft rejoiced together. I told him I 
locked upon him as a sent from Heaven to deliver 
me, and that tlie whcfle transaction seemed to be a 
cK^in of wonders ; that such things as these were the 
testimonies we had o{ a* secret hand of Providence 
governing the world, and an evidence that the eyes 
of an infinite power could search into tile remotest 
corner of the world, and send help to the miserable 
whenever He pleased. , 

I forgot not to lift up «iy heart in thajikfulness to 
Heaven ; and what heart could forbear to bless Him 
\.vho«had not only in a miraculous^ mannef provided 
for one in such a wilderness, and m such a desolate 
condition, but from whom every deliverance must 
always be acknowledged to proceed ? 

When we had talked awhile, the captain told me,* 
Jie had brought me some little refreshments, such as 
the ship afforded, and such as the wretches who had 
been so long his master?, had not plundered him of. 
Upon this he called aloud to the b»at, and bids his 
men bring the things ashore that were for the governor; 
and indSed i? was a present as if I had been one, not 
that I was to Hbe carried along with thern, but as if I 
ha(J been to dwell upon the island still, mid they were 
to go without me. • 

First, he had .brought me a case of bottles full of 
excellent cordial waters ; six large bottles of Madfira 
wine, the bottles held two quarts a-piece ; two pounds 
of Excellent good toba&o, twelve good pieces of the 
ship's beef, and six pieces 4 )f pork, with a bag of peas, 
and about a hundred weighf of biscuits. 

He brought me also a box of sugar, a bgx of flour, 
a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime juice, and 
abundance oi other things : but besides these, and 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


314 

what was a thousand times more useful to me, he 
brought me six clean shirts, six very good neckcloths, 
two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one 
pair of stockings, and a very good suit of clothes of 
his own, which had been worn but very little. In a 
word, he clothed me from headdo foot. - 

It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any one 
may imagine, to one in my circumstances : but neVer 
was anything in the world of that kind so unjDieasajit, 
awkward, a^nd uneasy, as it was to me to wear such 
clothes at their first putting on. 

After these ceremonies passed, and after all his 
good things were brought into my little apartment, 
we^began t(?i consult what was to be done with the 
prisoners we had ; for it was worth considering 
whether we might, venture to take them away with- 
us or no, especially two. of them, whom we knew to 
be incorrigible and refractory to the* last degree ; and 
the captain said, he knew they were such rogues, that 
there was no obliging them ; and if he did carry them 
away it must be in irons, as .malefactors, to be delivered 
over to justice at the first English colony he could 
come at ; and I found that dhe captain himself was 
very iinxious abcjat it. 

Upon this, I told him, that, if he desired it, I durst 
undertake to bring the two men he spoke of to make 
it their own request that he should leave them upon 
the island. “ I should be very glad of that,” says the 
captain, “ with all my heart. 

*^Well,” said I, ” I vnW send forcthem, and talk 
with them for you ; ” so I caused Friday and .tne two 
hostages — for they were now discharged, their com- 
rades having performed their promise — I say, I caused 
them to go to the cave, aTid bring up the five men, 
pinioned as they were, to the bower, and keep them 
there till I came. 

After some time, I came thither dressed in my new 
habit, and now I was^ called governor again. Being 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


31S 

all met, and the captain with me, I caused the men 
to be brought befc#-e me, and I told them, I had had 
a full account of their villainous behaviour to the 
captain, and how. they had run away with the ship, 
apd were preparing to oommit further robberies ; but 
that* Providence, had etJsnared them in their own ways, 
aii'd that they were fallen into the pit which they had 
digged for others. • 

I let*them know thcit by my direction the ship had 
been seized, that she lay now in the road, and they 
might see by-and-by, that their new captain had 
received the reward of his villainy ; for that they might 
see him hanging at the yard-arm : that as to them, I 
wanted to know what they ha^ to say, i^hy I should 
not execute them as pirates taken in the feet, as by 
my*commission they could not doilbt I had authority 
to do. • 

One of them answered in the name of the rest, that 
they had nothing to say, but this, that when they 
were taken, the captain promised th^m their lives, 
and they humbly implored my mercy : but I told 
them I knew not what mercy to show them ; for, as 
for myself, I had resolved to quit t^ie island wjth all 
my men, and had taken passage with the captain to 
go for England : and, as for the captain, he could not 
carry them tp England, other than as prisoners in 
irons to be tried for mutiny, and running away with 
th*e ship, the consequence of which, .they must needs 
know, would be the,gallows ; so that •! cpuld not tell 
what was the Uest for them, unless they had a mind 
to take* their fate in the island ; if they desired that, 
I did not care, as 1 hackliberty to leave it : I had some 
inclination to give them ^ their lives, if they thought 
they could shift on shore.** They seemed very thankful 
for it ; said they would much rather venture to stay 
there, than to be carried to England to be hanged : 
so I left it on that issue. 

However, the captain seemeddo make some difficulty 



316 KOBTNSON CRUSOE 

of it, as if he durst not leave them there : upon this, 
I seemed to be a little angry with the captain, and told 
him that they were my prison,(^rs, not his ; and that, 
seeing I had offered them so much favour, I would be 
as good as my w'ord ; and th^jt if he did not thii;k. fit 
to consent to it, I would set them- at liberty as I 
found them: and, if he did not like that, he nylght 
take them again if he could catch them. 

Upon this, they appeared very thankful*,'' and I 
accordingly set them at liberty, and bade them retire 
into the woods, to the place \vhence they came, and 
I woul,d leave them some fire-arms, some ammunition, 
and some directions how they should live very well, 
if they thought fit. o 

Upon this, I prepared to go on board the ship^ but 
told the captain that I would stay that night to prepare 
my things ; and desired him to go on board in the 
meantime, and keep all ri^it in the ship, and send the 
‘•boat on shore the next day for me : ordering him, 
in the meantime, to cause the new captain, who was 
killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that these men 
might see him. , 

When the caplin was gone, I sent for the men up 
to me to my apartment, and entered seriously into 
discourse with them of their circumstances. I told 
them, I thought they had made a right choice : that, 
if the captain carried them away, they would certainly 
be hanged ; I showed them their captain hanging at 
the yard-arm of the ship, and told them they had 
nothing less to expect. 

When they all declared their willingness to stay, I 
then told them I would let them into the story of my 
living there, and put them jnto the way of making it 
easy to them : accordingly, I gave them the whole 
history of the place, and of my coming to it ; showed 
them my iortifications, the way I made my bread, 
planted my corn, cured my grapes : and, in a word, 
all that was necessary io make them easy. I told them 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 317* 

the story of the sixteen Spaniards that were to be 
expected ; for whom I left a letter, and made them 
promise to treat ^them in common with them- 
selves. • 

I left them my fire-<jrms, namely, five muskets, 
thi^e* fowling-pieces, an/i three swords : I had about 
a barrel of powder left ; for after the first year or two 
I used but little, and waited none. I gave them a 
descj:ipt’i)n of the way I managed the goats, and direc- 
tions to milk and fatten them, to make both butter 
and cheese. 

In a word, I gave them every part of my own story ; 
and I told them I would prevail with the captain to 
leave them two barrels of •gunpowder mor«, and soyie 
garden-seed, which I told theiA I would b^ve been 
very^lad of ; also I gave them the bag of peas which 
the captain had brought me to, cat, and bade them be 
sure to sow and increase them. 

Having done all this, I left them the next day, 
and went on board the ship ; we prepared immediately * 
to sail, but did not weigh th?vt night. The next morning 
early, two of the five men came swimming to the 
ship's side, and, making a most lamentable complaint 
of the other three, begged to be tak^n into the* ship 
for God's sake, for they should be murdered ; and 
begged the •captain to take them on board, though he 
hanged them immediately. . 

Upon this the captain pretended to have no power 
without me ; but, after some difficult3% and after 
their solemn pronni§e^ of amendment, tfie/were taljen 
on boarb, and were, some time after, soundly whipped 
and pickled : after wlych they proved very honest 
and quiet fellows. 

Some time after this, I vrent with the boat on shore, 
the tide being up, with the things promised to the 
men, to which the captain, at my intercession, caused 
their chests and clothes to be added, which they took, 
and were very thankful for : I also encouraged them, 



3i8 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

by telling them, that if it lay in my way to send a 
vessel to tal?^ them in, I would npt forget them. 


CHAPTER XIX 

I leave the Island, and arrive in England — Go to York- 
shire, and find most of my Family dead — Go iio Lisbon 
respecting my Estate in Brazil — Meet an old Friend — 
We set out for England over land — Annoyed by 
Wolves on the Road. 

When I took leave of this island, I carried on board 
for* relics, the great goat-skin cap I had made, my 
umbrella, ‘•and one of my parrots : also, I forgot not 
to take the money I formerly mentioned, which had 
lain by me so long useless that it was grown rusty, 
or tarnished, and could hardly pass for silver, till it 
had been a little rubbed and handled, and also 
the money found in the wreck of the Spanisl^ 
ship. 

And thus I left the island the 19th day of December, 
as I .found by the ship's account, in the year 1686, 
after I had been upon it eight-and-twenty years, two 
months, and nineteen days : being delivered from the 
second captivity the same day of the- month that I 
first made my escape in the barcolongo from among 
the Moors of Sallee. 

In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in 
Eilgland the iith of* June, in the' year 1687, having 
been thirty and live years absent. 

When I came to England, I was a perfect stranger 
to all the world, as if I ha 4 never been known there : 
my benefactor, and faithful steward, whom I had left 
in trust with my money, was alive, but had had great 
misfortunes in the world, was become a widow the 
second time, and very low' in the world. I made her 
easy as to what she owed me, assxiring her I would 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 319 

give her no trouble ; but, on the contrary, in grati- 
tude to her former care and faithfulness to me, I 
relieved her as my little stock would afford, which, 
at that time, would, ii^deed, allow me to do but little 
for her ; but I assured her, I would never forget her 
forn^er kindness to me,;* nor did I forget her when I 
had sufficient to help her, as sliall be observed in its 
plciee. 

I went down aftcrwaiVls into Yorkshire, but my 
father was dead, and* my mother and all the family 
extinct, except that I found two sisters, "and two of 
the children of one of my brothers : and as I had been 
long ago given over for dead, there had been ^lo pro- 
vision made for me ; so that, in a word, I found 
nothing to relieve or assist me.^and that little mohey 
I.ha,d would not do much for me as to settling in the 
world. 

I met with one piece of gr&titude, indeed, which I 
did not expect ; and this was, that the master of the 
ship whom I had so happily delivered, and by tho 
,same means saved the ship and cargos having given 
a very handsome account tb the owners of the manner 
how I had saved the livps of the men, and the ship, 
they invited me to meet them and sonv other mer-ahants 
concerned, and altogether made me a very handsome 
complimei\t ^apon that subject, and a present of almost 
two hundred ^jounds sterling. 

But after making several reflections *upon the cir- 
cumstances of my life, and how little way this would 
go towards me settling in the world, I resolved to go to 
Lisbon, and see if 1 might not come by some informa- 
tion of the state of my plantation in the Brazils, and 
wbat was become of nly partner, who, I had reason 
to suppose, had some y€;^rs now given me over for 
dead. * • 

With this view I took shipping for Lisbon, where I 
arrived in April following, my man Friday accom- 
panying me very honestly in all these ramblings, 



.320 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

and proving a most faithful servant upon all occa- 
sions. 

When I came to Lisbon, I louiid out, by inquiry, 
and to my particular satisfaction, my old friend the 
captain of the ship, who first took me up at sea off 
the shore of Africa : he was row grown old, and had 
left off the sea. having put his son, \»rho was far from 
a young man, into his ship, and who still used the 
Brazil trade. The old man did not know yne, ^d, 
indeed, I hardly knew him : but I soon brouglit m^elf 
to his remembrance when I told him who 1 was. 

After some passionate expressions of our old acquain- 
tance. I inquired, you may be sure, after my plantation 
and my partner. The old -man told me he had not 
been in the Brazils for about nine years; but that 
he could'' assure me that, when he came away, my 
partner was living, but the trustees, whom I had 
joined with him to take cognisance* of my part, were 
both dead ; that, however, he believed that I would 
‘have a very good account of the improvement of the 
plantation,’ for that, upon the general belief of m 3 ’ 
being cast away and drowned, my trustees had given 
in the account of the produce of my part of the plan- 
tation to the pi^ocurator-fiscal, who had appropriated 
it, in case I never came to claim it, one-third to the 
king, and two-thirds to the monastery of Str Augustine, 
to & expended for the benefit of the pOor, and for the 
conversion of the Indians to the Catholic faith : but 
that if I appeared, or any one for me, to claim 
the inheritance, it would be restored, only that the 
iniprovement, or annual production, being distributed 
to charitable uses, could not be restored ; but he 
assured me that the steward of the king's revenue 
(from lands), and the prevedore, or steward of the 
monastery, had taken ^eat care all along that the 
incumbent, that is to say, my partner, gave every 
year a faithful account of produce, of which they 
received duly my moiety. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 321 

I asked him if he knew to what height of improve- 
ment he had brought the plantation ; and whether 
he thought it might worth looking after,; or whether 
on my going thither, I should meet with no obstruction 
to my possessing my just right in the moiety. 

Pe told me, he could ix)t tell exactly to what degree 
the j^antation was improved ; but this he knew, that 
my ^partner was growing exceedingly rich upon the 
enjoying but one-half of it : and tliat, to the best of 
his remdhibrance, he had heard that the king’s third 
of my part, which was, it seems, granted away to 
some other monastery, or religious house, amounted 
to above two hundred moidores a-year ; that,^ as to 
my being restored to a quiet possession of it,‘ there 
was no question to be made of tjiat, my p2rtner behig 
alive to witness my title, and my name being also 
enrolled in the register of the country. Also he told 
me, that the survivors of my trustees were very fair, 
honest people, and very we^thy ; and he believed I 
would not only have dieir assistance for putting me* 
jn possession, but would lind a very considerable sum 
of money in their hands fOr my account, being the 
produce of the farm whilq their fathers held the trust, 
and before it was given up, as abo^e, which, ^ he 
remembered, was about twelve years. 

I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at 
this account, mid inquired of the old captain how it 
came to pass, that the trustees should* thus dispose 
of my effects, when he knew that I had made my will 
and had made him^ the Portuguese captain, my 
universal heir, efc.^ * • 

He told me that was true ; but that, as there was 
no proof of my being dead, he could not act as executor 
until some certain account^ should come of my death ; 
and that, besides, he was^’not willing to intermeddle 
with a thing so remote : that it was true he had 
registered my will and put in his claim ; *and could 
he have given any account of my being dead or alive, 



.322 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

he would have acted by my procuration, and taken 
possession of the ingeino (so they called the sugar 
house), and had given his son, who was now at the 
Brazils, order to do it. 

“ But,*' saj^s the old man, ** I have one piece of news 
to tell you, which perhaps ni^y not be so acceptable 
to you as the rest, that believin’g you were lost, and all 
the world believing so also, your partner and trustees 
did offer to account to me, in your namCj, for six 
or eight of the first years of profit, which 1 received ; 
but there being at that time," s^ys he, “ great dis- 
bursements for increasing the works, building an 
ingeino, and buying slaves, it did not amount to near 
so much as afterwards it produced ; “however," says 
the old man, " I shall^give you a true account of what 
I have received in all, and how I have disposed of it" 

After a few clays* further conference with this 
ancient friend, he brought me an 'account of the six 
first years* income of my plantation, signed by my 
' partner and the merchant-trustees, being alw^ays 
delivered in goods, namely, tobacco in roll, and sugar 
in chests, besides rum, liiolasses, etc., which is the 
consequence of a sugar-work ; and I found by this 
accoimt, that ^yery year the income considerably 
increased : but, as above, the disbursement being 
large, the sum at first was small : however; the old 
man let me see that he was debtor to me four hundred 
and seventy moidores of gold, besides sixty chests 
of sugar, and fifteen double rolls of tobacco, wllich 
were lost in his ship, he having been shipwrecked 
coining home to Lisbon, about eleven years after my 
leaving the jdace. 

Tlie good man then began ‘to complain of his mis- 
fortunes, and how he had^been obliged to make use 
of my money to recover his losses, and buy him a 
share in a new ship. " However, my old friend,’’ said 
he, " you shall not want a supply in your necessity ; 
as soon as my son returns, you shil be fully satisfied." 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


323 * 

Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me 
two hundred Portugal moidores in gold and giving 
me the writings of nis title to the ship which his son 
• was gone to the B|;azils*m, of which he was a quarter 
part owner, and his son, another, he puts them both 
in my hands for securihj' of the rest. 

I was too mudi moved with the honesty and kind- 
ness* of the poor man, to -be able to bear this; and 
remembisring what he had done for me, how he had 
taken me up at sea, and how generously he had used 
me on all occasioqs, and particularly how sincere a 
friend he was now to me, I could hardly refrain weep- 
ing at what he said to me ; therefore, first, I ksked 
him if his circumstances ‘admitted him lb spare so 
much money at that time, and i? it would not straiten 
him7 He told me, he could not say but it might 
straiten him a little ; but, however, it was my money, 
and I might want it more than he. 

Everything the good man said was full of affection, 
and 1 could hardly refrain from tears wl^ile he spoke, 
jfn short, I took one hundred of the moidores, and 
called for a pen and ink to give him a receipt for them ; 
then I returned him the i^est, and told him, if evrer I 
had possession of the plantation, I would return the 
other ^to feim a}^o, as indeed I afterwards did ; and that, 
as to the bill qf sale of his part in his son’s ship, I 
would not take it by any means ; but that if I wanted 
the 'money, I found he was honest enopgh to pay me, 
and if I did not, but came to receive what he gave 
me reason to expeit,* I would never have a penny 
more from him. 

^heh this was past, the old man began to ask me, 
if he should put me on a method to make my claim 
to my plantation. I told hiln, I thought to go over to 
it myself. He said, I might do so if I pleased ; but 
that if I did not, there were ways enough to secure 
my right, and immediately to appropriate the profits 
to my use; and as there were f^ips in the river of 
R.C. L 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


"324 

Lisbon, just ready to go away to Brazil, he made me 
enter my name in a public register, with this affidavit, 
affirming upon oath that I was alive, and that I was 
the same person who took up the lg.nd for the planting 
the said plantation at first. • 

This being regularly attested by notary, and a 
procuration affixed, he directed me to send it with a 
letter of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance 
at the place ; and then proposed my staying •vvith* him 
till an account came of the return. 

Never anything was more ho,nourable than the 
proceedings upon this procuration ; for in less than 
seven months, I received , a large packet from the 
survivors of my trq^tees, the merchants, on whose 
account T went to sea, in which were the following 
particular letter^' and papers enclosed : — 

First, There was the accoimt current of the produce 
of my farm, or plantation, from tlie year when their 
fathers had balanced with my old Portugal captain^ 
being for six> years ; the balance appeared to be one 
thousand one hundred aud seventy>four moidores in 
my favour. 

Secondly, Tl\fire was the account of four years more 
while they kept the effects in* their hands, before the 
government claimed the administratiojrx as .bei^ig the 
effects of a person not to be found, ^which they call 
civil death ; and the balance of this, the value of the 
plantation increasing, amounted to three thousand 
two hundred^ and forty-one mojdorcs. 

Thirdly, 'fhere was the prior^ cfl the Augustine's 
account, who had received the profits for about four- 
teen years ; but not being able to account for ;^hat 
was ciisposed to the hospital, very honestly declared 
he had eight hundred arid seventy-two moidores not 
distributed, which he acknowledged to my account. 
As to the king's part, that refunded nothing. 

There was also a letter of my partner's, congratu- 
lating me very affectionately upon my being alive ; 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


325 

giving me an account how the estate was improved, 
and what it produce/i a-year, with a parti<:ular of the 
number of squares, or acres, that it contained ; how 
• planted, how many slaves there were upon it ; and, 
making two-and-twenty crosses for blessings, told me 
he had said so m;piy Aw Marias to thank the Blessed 
Virgip that I was ahve ; inviting me very passionately 
to come over and take possession of my own, and in 
the meaiftime to give him orders to whom he should 
deliver my effects, if I did not come myself ; con- 
cluding with a hejvrty tender of his friendship, and 
that of his family ; and sent me as a present, seven 
fine leopard skins, which |ie had, it seems, received 
from Africa by some other ship which h^ had seat 
thkher ; and who, it seems, had made a better voyage 
than*!. He sent me also five chests of excellent sweet- 
meats, and a hundred pieces of gold uncoined, not 
quite so large as moidores. 

By the same fleet my merchant-trustees shipped 
me twelve himdred chests of sugar, eight huncLred 
, rolls of tobacco, and the of the whole account 
in gold. 

I might well say now, mdeed, that the latter .end 
of Job was better than the beginning. It is impossible 
to express the, flutterings of my very heart, when I 
looked over*the^e letters, and especially when I found 
all my wealth about me ; for as the BnizA ships came 
all ih fleets, the same ships which brought my letters 
brought my goods ; ^d the effects were s,afe in the 
Tagus before the tetter came to nfy hand. In a word, 
I tume4 <pale, and grew sick ; and had not the old 
man^run and fetched me a cordial, I beUeve the sudden 
surprise of joy had overset nature, and 1 had died upon 
the spot. *• « 

Nay, after that, I continued very ill, and was so 
some hours, till a physician being sent for, sfiid some- 
thing of the real cause of my illness being known, he 
ordered me to be let blood, afte’j which I had r^ef. 



326 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

and grew well ; but I verily believe, if it had not been 
eased by the vent given in that ipanner to the spirits, 

I should have died. 

I was now master, all on a sudden, of about fifty* 
thousand pounds sterling in. money, and had an estate 
as I might well call it, in *<the Brazils, of above a 
thousand pounds a-year, as sure as an estate of Jands 
in England; and, in a word, I was in a condition 
which I scarce knew how to' understand, dl* how to 
compose myself for the enjoyment of. 

The first thing I did was to recompense my original 
benefactor, my good old captain, who had been first 
charitable to me in my distress, kind to me in the 
beginning* and hon^t to me at the end. I showed 
him all *that was sent to me ; I told him, that, next 
to the providence of Heaven, which disposes all tuings, 
it was owing to him > and that it now lay on me to 
reward him, which I would do an hundred fold. So 
I first returned to him the hundred moidores I had 
received of kim ; then I sent for a notary, and caused 
him to draw up a general release or discharge for the , 
four hundred and seventy moidores, which he had 
acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest and firmest 
manner possible, after which I caused a procuration 
to be drawn, empowering him to be.mv ueceiver of 
the annual profits of my plantation^, and appointing 
my partner to account to him and make the returns 
by the usual fleets to him in my name ; and a Clause 
in the eiid, rbeing a grant of, one hundred moidores 
a-year to him during his life, out 6i the effects ; and 
fifty moidores a-year to his son after him, for his life. 
And thus I requited my old*man. ^ 

I was now to consider which way to steer my course 
next, and what to do with the estate that Providence 
had thus put into my hands ; and, indeed, I had more 
care upoh my head now than I had in my silent state 
of life in the island, where I wanted nothing but what 
I had, and had notbing but what 1 wanted ; whereas 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


327 

I had. now a great charge upon me, and my business 
was how to secure it^: I had never a cave .to hide my 
money in, or a place where it might lie without lock 
•or key, till it grew^ioufdy and tarnished before any- 
body would meddle with it. On the contrary, I knew 
not* where to put it, or vihom to trust with it ; my old 
patron, the captain, indeed, was honest, and that was 
the only refuge I had. • 

In the next place, my interest in the Brazils seemed 
to summon me thither ; but now I could not tell how 
to think of going tlyther till I had settled my affairs, 
and left my effects in some hands behind me. At first 
I thought of my old friend the widow, who, I l^new, 
was honest, and would be just to me : buif then, she 
was in years, and but poor, an(J for aught *1 knew, 
might be in debt ; so that, in a word, I had no way 
but to go back to England myself, and take my effects 
with me. 

I was some months, however, before I resolved 
upon this ; and, therefore, as I had rewvded the old 
^ ciptain fully, and to satisfaction, who had been my 
former benefactor, so I began to think of my poor 
widow, whose husband had been my first benefaqjor, 
and ^e, while it was in her power, my faithful steward 
and in^trvyctor, .So the first thing I did, I got a merchant 
in Lisbon td wjite to his correspondent in London, 
not only to pay a bill, but to go find her out, and carry 
her in money a hundred pounds from roe, and to talk 
with her, and comfort^ her in her poverty, py telling 
her she should, if 4 lived, have a further supply. M 
the same time, I sent my two sisters in the country, 
each ^of them a hundred 4)ounds, they being, though 
not in want, yet not in very good circumstances — one 
having been married, and ‘loft a widow ; and the 
other having a husband not so kind to her as he 
should be. 

But among all my relations or acquaintances, I 
could not yet pitch upon one to whom I durst commit 



' 328 ‘ ROBINSON CRUSOE 

the p-oss of my stock, that I might go away to the 
Brazils, an(J leave things safe bmind me ; and this 
greatly perplexed me. 

I had once a mind to have gone^to the Brazils, and^ 
have settled myself there,* for I was, as it were, 
naturalised to the place ; but‘d had some little scniple 
in my mind about religion, which insensibly drew me 
back, of which I shall say *more presently. However, 
it was not religion that kept* me from going thither 
for the present ; and as I had made no scruple of being 
openly of the religion of the couij^try, all the while I 
was among them, so neither did I yet ; only that now 
and fhen, having of late thought more of it than for- 
merly, wh*en I began to Ihink of living and dying 
among them, I begaJi to regret my having professed 
myself a Papist, 'and thought it might not be the ITest 
religion to die m. 

. But, as I have said, this was not the main thing 
that kept me from going to the Brazils, but that 
really I did not know with whom to leave my effects 
behind me ; so 1 resolved at last to go to Englaild 
with them, where, if I arrived, I concluded I should 
make some accmaintance, dr find some relations, that 
would be faithful to me ; and accordingly 1 prepared 
to go for England with all my wealth. , 

In order to prepare things for my gding home, I 
first (the Brazil fleet being just going away) resolved 
to give answers. suitable to the just and faithful account 
of things J had from thence ; and first, to the prior 
oi St. Augustine I' wrote a lelUr*full of thanks for 
his just dealings, and the offer of the eight hundred 
and seventy-two moidores, which were undisposed of, 
which I desired might be given, five hundred to the 
monastery, and three .bdndred and seventy-two to 
the poor, as the prior should direct, desiring the good 
padre's iJrayers for me, and the like. 

I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees, 
with all the ackno}vledgment that so much justice 



ROBINSON CRUSOE • 329 

and honesty called for ; as for sending them any 
present, they were far above having any occasion 
for it. 

Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his 
industry in the irhproving the plantation, and his 
integrity in increasing the stock of the works ; giving 
him instructions ** for his future government of my 
part 'according to the powers I had left with my old 
patron, whom I desired him to send whatever 
became due to me, till he should hear froni me more 
particularly ; assuring him, that it was my* intention, 
not only to come CO him, but to settle myself there 
for the remainder of my life. To this I added a^very 
handsome present of some Italian silks fgr his wife 
and two daughters — for such tiie captain's son in- 
forfned me he had — ^with two piece«i of line English 
broad-cloth, the best I could get in Lisbon, five pieces 
of black baize, and some Flanders lace of a good 
value. 

Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and 
turned all my effects into gQod bills of Scchange, my 
next difficulty was, which way to go to England. I 
had been accustomed enough to the sea, and yet I 
had a strange aversion^ to go to En^and by sea at 
that time : and though I could give no reason for it, 
yet tine ffifSculty increased upon me so much, that 
though I had ortce shipped my baggage in order to go, 
yet I altered my mind, and that not ouce, but two 
or three times. • 

It is true, I hacj Ijeen very unfgrtimate by sea, and 
this might be one of the reasons. But let no man 
slight thie*strong impulses of his own thoughts in cases 
of shch moment. Two* of the ships which I had 
singled out to go in — I mean, more particularly singled 
out than any other, that is to %ay, so as in one of them 
to put my things on board, and in the othei to have 
agreed with the captain — I say, two of the ships mis- 
carried, namely, one was taken bv the Algerines, and 



330 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

the other was cast away on the Start near Torbay, 
and all the people drowned except three ; so that, 
in either oT these vessels, I had been made miserable, 
and in which most, it was ha>d to say. 

Having been thus harassed in nfy thoughts, my old 
pilot, to whom I communicated everything, pres-sed 
me earnestly not to go by sea ; bi/t either to go by 
land to the Groyne, and crpss over the Bay of Biscay 
to Rochelle, from whence it was but an easj^and safe 
journey by land to Paiis, and so to Calais and Dover ; 
or to go up to Madrid, and so all the way by land 
tlirough France. • 

In* a word, I was so prepossessed against my going 
by sea at. all, except from Calais to Dover, that I 
resolved Jto travel alk the way by land ; which, as 1 
was not in haste, and did not value the charge., was 
by much the pleasanter way ; and. to make it more 
50, my old captain brought an English gentleman, the 
son of a merchant in Lisbon, who was willing to travel 
with me ; after which, we picked up two who were 
English, an(f merchants ^so, and two young Portu- 
guese gentlemen, the last going to Paris only : so that 
we were in all six of us, and five servants, the two 
merchants and^he two Portuguese contenting them- 
selves with one servant between two, to save the charge, 
and as for me, I got an English sailor to'travel with me 
as a servant., besides my man Frida5^, w'ho was too 
much a stranger to be capable of supplying the place 
of a servant ujJon the road. 

^In this •manner I set out fro^ji .Lisbon : and our 
company being all very well mounted and armed, we 
made a little troop, whereof they did me the honour 
to call me captain, as well because I was the Oldest 
man, as because I had two servants, and indeed was 
the original of the whoFe journey. 

As I .have troubled you with none of my sea 
journals, so shall I trouble you with none of my land 
journals. But some adventures that happened to 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 331 

us in this tedious and difficult journey I must not 
omit. • 

When we came to l^adrid, we being all of vs strangers 
to Spain, w'ere ^villing to ^tay some time to see the court 
*of Spain, and to see what was worth observing ; but 
it being the latter part the summer, we hastened 
away and set out. from ‘Madrid about the middle of 
October. But when we came to the edge of Navarre, 
we were alarmed, at several towns on the way, with 
an accouift that so much’ snow was fallen on the French 
side of the mountains, that several travellers were 
obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after having 
attempted, at an extreme hazard, to pass on. ^ 

When we came to Panv>elmia itself, we found it 
so indeed ; and to me, that had^been alwaCys used to 
a climate, and indeed to countries where we could 
scarce bear any clothes on, the cold ^as insufferable ; 
nor, indeed, was it more painful^than it was surprising; 
to come but ten days before out of Old Castile, where 
the weather was not only warm, but very hot, and 
ipimediately to feel a wind from the Pyienean moun- 
tains, so very keen, so severely cold, as to be intoler- 
able, and to endanger benumbing and perishing of our 
fingers and toes, was very strange. , 

Poor Friday was really frighted wnen he saw the 
mounto i»s 2^1 covered with snow, and felt cold weather, 
which he had never seen or felt before in his life. 

To mend the matter, after we came to* Pampeluna, 
it continued snowing with so much violence, and so 
long, that the people jaid winter was come, before its 
time ; and the roAdS, which were difficult before, were 
now quite impassable : in a word, the snow lay in 
soms places too thick fopus to travel ; and being not 
hard frozen, as is the case in northern countries, there 
was no going without being*i» danger of being buried 
alive every step. We stayed no less than twenty days 
at Pampeluna ; when (seeing the winter cdming on, 
and no likelihood of its being better, for it was the 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


332 

severest winter all over Europe that had been known 
in many years) I proposed that we should aU go' away 
to Fontarabia, and there take shipping for Bordeaux, 
which was a very little voyagp. 

But while we were considering dhis, there came in * 
four French gentlemen, whc. ^having been stopgedoOn 
the French side of the passes, as«we were on the 
Spanish, had found out a guide, who, traversing the 
country near the head of Languedoc, had brought 
them over the mountains by such ways, ftiat they 
were not* much incommoded with the snow; and 
where they met with snow in any. quantity, they said 
it wf^ frozen hard enough to bear them and their 
horses. 

• We sent* for this g\nde, w^ho told us he would under- 
take to curry us the same way with no hazard from^he 
snow, provided we were armed sufficiently to protect 
us from wild beasts : • for, he said, upon these great 
snows, it was frequent for some wolves to show them- 
selves at the foot of the mountains, being made 
ravenous for*'W'^ant of food, the ground being coverpjj 
with snow, * 

We told him we were wejl enough prepared for such 
creatures as they were, if he would ensure us from a 
kind of two-legged wolves, VHiich we were told we 
were in most danger from, especially on, the French 
side of the mountains. ^ 

He salisfitd us there was no danger of that kind 
in the way that we were to go ; so we readily a^eed 
to follow *hiiTi ; as did also tw^elve other gentlemen, 
With their servants, 'some French,* s5me Spanish, who, 
as 1 said, had attempted to go, and were obliged to 
come back again. • « 

Accordingly, we all set-out from Pampeluna, with 
our guide, on the 15 th •of November ; and indeed I 
was surprised when, instead of going forward, he came 
directly back with us, on the same road that we came 
from Madrid, about twenty miles ; when, having passed 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 333 

two rivers and come into the plain country, ^e found 
ourselves in a warm climate again, where the country 
was pleasant and po snow to be seen * but on a 
sudden, turning to the ^eft, he approached the moun- 
tains another way.; and though, it is true, the hills 
and the precipices lookad dreadfully, yet he made 
so many tours, ^uch meanders, and led us by such 
winding ways, we insensibly passed the height of the 
mountains, without being nnuch encumbered with the 
snow ; shid all on a sudden he showed us the pleasant 
fruitful provinces of Languedoc and Gascoigne, all 
green and flourishigig ; though indeed they were at a 
great distance, and we had some rough way to pass 
yet. . ‘ 

We were a little uneasy, however, whc^i we foiuid 
it .§powed one whole day and a^night, so fast that we 
could not travel ; but he bade us be easy, we should 
soon be past it all. We founds mdeed, that we began 
to descend every day, and to come more north than 
before ; and so, depending upon our guide, we, 
jivent on. * 

It was about two hours before night when our guide, 
being something before us, and not just in sight, out 
rushed three monstrous wolves, ajd after them a 
bear, out of a hollow Way adjoining to a thick wood. 
Two-iDf*tl^ wolves flew upon the guide, and had he 
been half a mile before us, he had been devoured 
indeed, before we could have heljjed him*; one of them 
fastened upon his horse, and the other attacked the 
man with that violence, that he had not time, or not 
presence of mifld* enough, to \lraw his "pistol, hut 
nallooQd* and cried out to us most lustily. My man 
Friday being next to noe, I bade him ride up, and see 
what was the matter. As soon as Friday came in 
sight of the man, he haltered as loud as the other, 
“ Oh, master I oh, master I " — but, like a bold fellow, 
rode directly up to the man, and with his* pistol shot 
the wolf that attacked him in the head. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 


.334 

It was happy for the poor man that it was my man 
Friday ; for he, having been used to that kind of crea- 
ture in his qpuntry, had no fear upon him, but went 
close up to him and shot him ^ above ; whereas any 
of us would have fired at a farther distance, and 
perhaps either missed the wolf, or endangered shootipg 
the man. 

But it was enough to have terrified a bolder plan 
than I, and indeed it alarmed all our company, when, 
with the noise of Friday’s pistol we heard bn both 
sides the dismalest bowlings of wolves, and the noise 
redoubled by the echo of the mountains, that it was 
to us jgis if there had been a prodigious multitude of 
them ; and perhaps, indeed,, there was not such a few 
as ithat we had no cause of apprehension. 

However, as Friday* had killed this wolf, the oth^r, 
that had fastened 'upon the horse, left him immediately 
and fled, having happily fastened upon his head, where 
the bosses of the bridle had stuck in his teeth, so that he 
.had not done him much hurt : the man, indeed, was 
most hurt ; fcr the raging creature had bit him twice, 
once on the arm, and the ether time a little above his* 
knee ; and he was just as it were tumbling down by 
the c^sorder of ^e horse wfien Friday came up and 
shot the wolf. ^ 


It is easy to suppose, that at the noise of Friday’s 
pistol we all mended our pace, and rode up as fast as 
the way (which was very difficult) would give us leave 
to see what was ^he matter. As soon as we came clfear 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 


335 . 


CHAPTER XX 

' Battle betwixt Friday ahd a Bear — Terrible Fight with 
Wolves — Arrive*iii Entrland safely, and settle there, 
• ar/i marry. 

But* never was a fight managed so hardily, and in 
such a surprising manner, as that which followed 
between Friday and the bear, which gave us all 
(though at first we were surprised and afraCid for him) 
the greatest diversion imaginable. As the bear is a 
heavy, clumsy creature, and does not gallop |ls the 
wolf does, which is swift and light, so he has two 
particular qualities, which generally are*the rule* of 
his^actions ; first, as to men, who are not his proper 
prey — I say, not his proper prey, because, though I 
can't say what excessive hun^r might do, which was 
now their case, the ground being all covered with 
' snow ; yet as to men, he does not usually attempt them,* 
jtinless they first attack him ; on the contrary, if you 
meet him in the woods, if you don't meddle with him, 
he won’t meddle with you : yet then you must take 
care to be very civil to him, and gwe him the .road, 
for he is a very nice gentleman ; he won't go a step 
out of theb way for a prince — nay, if you are really 
afraid, your btSt way is to look another way, and keep 
goiflg on ; for sometimes, if you stop, ahd stand still, 
and look steadfastly at him, he takes 4t for an afiront, 
and if you throvj or ^oss anything at him., and it hits 
him, though it were but a bit o'f stick as big as ybur 
finger, 'lie takes it for an affront, and sets all other 
buaness aside to pursut? his revenge ; .for he will have 
satisfaction in point of h^ijnour, and this is his first 
quality : the next is, that*i< he be once affronted, he 
will never leave you, night or day, till he has his revenge, 
but follow at a good round rate till he overtakes you. 
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when 



,336 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

we came' up to him, he was helping him ofi from hw 
horse ; for the man was both hurt and frighted," and 
indeed the last more than the first > when, on a sudden, 
wo espied the bear come out of the wood, and a very 
monstrous one it was, the biggest by far that ever I 
saw. We were all a little surp;-ised when we saw. him; 
but when Friday saw him, it ^as easy to see joy and 
courage in the fellow *s countenance : “ Oh I Oh I 

Oh 1 ” says Friday, three tiriies^ pointing to hijp, ** Oh, 
master i you give me te leave, me shakee te hand 
with him, ine makee you good laugh.'’ 

I was surprised to see tlie fellow go plejised : " You 
fool ypu,” said I, “he will eat you up I " “ Eatee me 
up 1 eatee me up I ** says .l^riday twice over again ; 
“ me eatee 'him up ; /ne make you good laugh ; you 
all stay here, me show you good laugh.” So down 
he sits, and gets 'his boots off in a moment, and put 
on a pair of pumps (as wo call the flat shoes they wear), 
and which he had in his pocket, and gives niy other 
<'Servant his horse, and with his gun away he flew, 
swift like the-wind. , 

The bear was walking* softly on, and offered to 
meddle with nobody, till Friday, coming pretty near, 
calls ..to him, as# if the bear could understand him : 
** Hark ye 1 hark ye I ” says Friday, ** me speakee wit 
you.” We followed at a distance : for new .beilig-come 
down to the Gascoigne side of the mountains, we were 
entered a vafet great forest, where the country y^as 
plain, and pretty open, though many trees in it 
scattered here^^and there. . ^ 

Friday, who had, as we say, the lieels of the bear, 
came up with him quickly, and takes up a grdkt stone, 
and throws it at him, and hit him just on the head, 
but did him no more harpi than if he had thrown 
it against a wall : but it » answered Friday's end ; for 
the rogue was so void of fear, that he did it purely 
to make the bear follow hun, and show us some laugh, 
as he called it. 



KUI31iN SUIN CJKU^»UIi* 

Ag soon as the bear felt the stone, and saw him, he 
turns about, and comes after him, taking devilish 
long strides, and shuffling along at a strange rate, so 
as he would put a hor^e to a middling gallop. Away 
runs Friday, and fakes his course as if he ran towards 
u5 fee help ; so we all resolved to fire at once upon the 
bear, and delivei' my man, though I was angiy at him 
heaftily for bringing the, bear back ui)on us, when 
he was .going about his business another way, and 
especially I was angry that he had turned the bear 
upon us, and then run away ; and I calledTout, " You 
dog,’* said I, “ Ls^his your making us laugh ? Come 
away, and take your horse, that we may shoot the 
creature." He hears me*, and cries out,," No shoot, 
no shoot, stand still, you get nuch laugh : " ancf as 
tliT? nimble creature ran two feet fev* the bctist’s one, 
he turned on a sudden on one side of as, and seeing 
a great oak tree fit for his T^furpose, he bfjckoned us 
to follow, and, doubling his pace, he gets nimbly up 
the tree, laying his gun down upon the ground, at? 
•about five or six yards frorp the bottori^ of the tree. 

The bear soon came to the tree, and we followed 
at a distance. The first* thing he did, he stopped at 
the gun, smelled to it, \)ut let it lie, and up he scnembles 
into the tree, cJiinbing like a cat, though so monstrous 
hea^.* I*wils amazed at the folly, as I thought it, 
of my man, aful could not for my life see an3/thing to 
laugh at yet till, seeing the bear get up tiie tree, we all 
rode nearer to him. • 

When we cair^ to the tree, th^re was* Friday got out 
to the sjTiall of a large limb of the tree, and the Bear 
got about half-way to him. As soon as the bear got 
out to that part where tlie limb of the tree was weaker, 
" Ha," says he to us, " npw you see me teachee the 
bear dance ; " so he falls a-jumpiiig and shaking the 
bough, at which the bear began to totter* but stood 
still, and began to look behind him, to see how he 
should get back : then, indeed, we did laugh heartily. 



338 .ROBINSON CRUSOE 

But Friday had not done with him by a great deal : 
when he sees him stand still, he calls out to him again, 
as if he had:- supposed the bear cQuld speak English, 
" What I you come no farther ? Pray you come 
farther.” So he left jumping and shaking the bough : 
and the bear, just as if he m^derstood what he .said, 
did come a little farther ; tiien he fell a-jumping 
again, and the bear stopped again. « 

We thought now was a ^ood time to knock him 
on the head, and called to Friday to stand still, and 
we would shoot the bear ; but he cried out earnestly, 
” Oh, pray I oh, pray 1 no shoot, t-me shoot by and 
then ”,i— he would have said by-and-by. However, 
to shorten the story, Friday«danced so much, and the 
bear stood So ticklish.. that we had laughing enough, 
indeed, but still could not imagine what the fellw 
would do : for first we thought he depended upon 
shaking the bear off, and we found the bear was too 
cunning for that too ; for he would not get out far 
^enough to be thrown down, but clings fast with his 
great broad olaws and feet, so that we could not, 
imagine what would be erid of it, and where the jest 
would be at last. 

But Friday pjit us out of doubt quickly ; for, 
seeing the bear cling fast to the bough, and that he 
would not be persuaded to come any farth/^r, '-‘Well, 
well,” said Friday, ” you no come farther, me go, me 
go ; you no come to me, me come to you ; ” and upon 
this he goes out to the smallest end of the bough, 
where it wquld bend with his weight,^ and gently lets 
hiiAself down by it, Gliding down *tne bough till he 
came near enough to jmnp down on his feet ; ahd away 
he ran to his gun, takes it up, *and stands still. c 

” Well,” said I to him, Friday, what will you do 
now ? ^^y don't you shoot him ? ” ” No shoot,” 
says Friday, ” no yet ; me shoot now me no kill ; me 
stay, give you one more laugh.” And, indeed, so he 
did, as you will see presentlv ; for when the bear saw 



ROBINSON CRUS6E 330 

his enemy gone, he comes* back from the boilgh where 
he stood, but did it mighty leisurely, looking behind 
him every step, an^ coming backward til] he got into 
the body of the tree then, with the same hinder 
end foremost, he (^me down the tree, grasping it with 
hi^ claws, and moving one foot at a time, very leisurely. 
At this juncture and* just before he could put his 
hind feet upon the ground, Friday stepped close to 
him, clapped the muzzle of his piece into his ear, and 
shot hini as dead as a 'stone. 

Then the rogue turned about to see if we did not 
laugh ; and whe4 he saw we were pleased by our 
looks, he falls a-laughing himself very loud — “ So we 
kill ^ar in my country^" says Friday. “ So you 
kill them ? ** said I ; “ why, you have no guns. 

“ JJo,*' says he, “ no guns, but ^hoot great much long 
arrow.” 

This was, indeed, a good diversion to us : but we 
were still in a wild place, and our guide very much 
hurt, and what to do we hardly knew : the howling, 
of wolves ran much in my head ; andjindeed, except 
the noise I once heard on the shore of Africa, of which 
I have said something -already, ! never heard anything 
that hlled me with so much horror. 

These things, and the approach oi night, called us 
off, Pj e\s^ Friday woidd have had us, we should 
certainly nave taken the skin of this monstrous 
creature off, which was worth saving ;• but we had 
three leagues to go, and our guide basfened us ; so 
we left him, and wei\t forward on our journey. 

Tlie ground ^aS still covered with snow, though 
not so.deep and dangerous as on the mountains ; and 
th^ ravenous creatiu’es,as we heard afterwards, were 
come down into the forest and plain country, pressed 
by hunger, to seek for fclb^i, and had done a great 
deal of mischief in the villages, where they surprised 
the country people, killed a great many of •their sheep 
and horses, and some people too. 



340 ROBINSON CRUSOE 

We haii one dangerous place to pass, of which our 
g&ide told us, if there were any more wolves in the 
country, we^ should find them there ; and this was a 
small plain, surrounded with^^ woods on every side, 
and a long narrow defile or lane, ^vhich we were to 
pass to get through the wood, and then we should 
come to the viUage where we were tq lodge. 

It was within half an hour of sunset whei\ we 
entered the first wood, and* a little after sunset when 
we came into the plain. We nlet with nothirfg in the 
first wood, except tliat in a little plain within the wood 
which was not above two furlongs^ over, we saw five 
great ^wolves cross the road, full speed one after 
another, as if they had beqn in chase of some prey, 
and had it *in view : Aey took no notice of us, and 
were gone* and out of^sight in a few moments. 

Upon this our gtiide, who, by the way, was a wi*etcll^ 
faint-hearted fellow, bade us keep in "a* ready posture ; 
for he believed there were more wolves a-coming. 

We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us ; 
but we saw no more wolves till we came through that 
wood, which was near haK a league, and entered the* 
plain : as soon as we came into the plain, we had 
occasion enough ^to look about us. Tlie first object 
we met with was a dead horse,* that is to say, a poor 
horse which the wolves had killed, and at le^t*a jjpzen 
of them at work ; we could not say, (eating of him, 
but picking of his bones rather ; for they had eaten 
up all the flesh ^before. 

We did i\ot think fit to disturb them at their feast, 
neither did they take much notlcef of us. Friday 
would have let fly at them, but I would not suffer 
him by any means ; for I found we were like to h/ive 
more business upon our hands than we were aware 
of. We were not gone half bVer the plain, but we began 
to hear the wolves howl in the woods, on our left, in 
a frightful manner ; and presently after we saw about 
a hundred coming on directly towards us, all in a body. 



ROBINSON CRUS’OJ^ 341 

and most of them in a Hne, as regularly a 5 an army, 
drawn up by experienced officers. I scarce knew-^n 
what manner to jeceive •them ; but fo,und to draw 
ourselves in a close ^ne was the only way — so we 
formed in a moryent ; but that we might not have 
tpo much interval, I ordered, that only every other 
man* should fire;; ancf that the others, who had not 
fired, should stand ready to give them a second volley 
immediately, if they corrtinued to advance upon us ; 
and theft then those wTio had fired at first, should not 
pretend to load their fusils again, but atand ready, 
with every one a, pistol, for we were all armed with 
a fusil and a pair of pistols each man ; so wf were, 
by this method, able to ;lre six volleys, half of us at 
a time ; however, at present we had ho necessity, 
fqf upon firing the first volley, *the enemy made a full 
stop, being terrified, as well with tht noise as with the 
fire ; four of tliem being shM in the head, dropped ; 
several others were wounded, and went bleeding ofif, 
as we could see by the snow. I found they stopped* 

^ but did not immediately retreat ; whereupon, remem- 
bering that I had been told that the fiercest creatures^ 
were teiTified at the ?^ice of a man, I caused all our' 
company to halloo as loud as we cpuld, and I. found 
the notion not altogether mistaken ; for upon our 
shovif*th^y began to retire and turn about : then I 
ordered a second volley to be fired in their rear, which 
put them to the gallop, and away they went to the 
woods. / . 

This gave us leisiye to chaige our pieces again, and 
that we might lo 4 e no time, wfe kept going ; but we 
had hut little more than loaded our fusils, and put 
oujrselves into a readiness, when we heard a terrible 
noise in the same wood on our left, only that it was 
farther onward the same*t\^iy we were to go. 

The night was coming on, and it began to be 
dusky, which made it the worse on ouf side ; but 
thfi noise increasing, we could easily perceive that it 



342 . KOBINSON CRUSOE 

was the howling and yelling <Jf those hellish creatures ; 
an€* on a sudden, we perceived two or three troops 
of wolves on .our left, one Behind ijs, and one on our 
front, so that w^e seemed to be surrounded with them ; 
however, as they did not fall upon us we kept our 
way forward, as fast as we cou^d make our horses go, 
which, the way being very rough, was only a good 
large trot ; and in this manner we only came in view 
of the entrance of the wood'* through which we were 
to pass, at the farther side of the plain ; but we were 
greatly surprised, when, coming near the lane, or pass, 
we saw a confused number of vrob^es standing just 
at the entrance. 

On a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we 
heapd the noVse of a gu/i ; and looking that way, out 
rushed a ho.-se, with a sa'ddle and a bridle on him, flying 
like the wind, and* sixteen or seventeen wolves after 
him full speed : indeed,**'the horse had the heels of 
them ; but as we supposed that he could not hold it 
at that rate, we doubted not but they would get up 
with him at last — and no question but they did. 

Here we had a most hofrible sight ; for riding up 
to the entrance where the horse came out, we found 
the carcase of another horse, and of two men, devoured 
by these ravenous creatures. One of them was no 
doubt the same whom we heard fire a gun,, foi*4here 
lay a gun just by him fired off ; but as to the man, his 
head, and the upper part of his body, were eaten up. 

This filled us with •horror, and we knew not what 
course to take p but the creatures resolved us soon, 
for they gathered about us presently7 in hopes of prey; 
and I verily believe there were three hundred o^ them. 
It happened very much to our advantage, that at the 
entrance into the wood, but a little way from it, there 
lay some large timber trees. Vhich had been cut down 
the summer before, and I suppose lay there foi* carriage. 
I drew my little troop in among these trees, and placing 
ourselves in a line behind one long tree, I advised 



ROBINSON CRUS6e. 344 

them all to alight, and. Keeping that tree ^before us 
for a' breastwork, to stand m a triangle, or three fronlig^ 
enclosing our horsey in the? centre. , 

We did so, and it was well we did ; for never was 
a more furious charge than the creatures made upon 
U3 ill this place ; they •came on us with a growling 
kind of a noise^ and* mounted the piece of timber 
(which, as I said, was our breastwork), as if they were 
oniy ruii^iing upon their prey ; and this fury of theirs, 
it seems, was principally occasioned by their seeing 
our horses behind us, which was the prey they aimed 
at. I ordered ouo men to fire as before, every man ; 
and they took their aim so sure, that indeed they killed 
several of the wolves p.t. the first volley ; but there 
was a necessity to keep a continual fiiihg, for they 
CMne on like devils, those befiind pushing on those 
before. * 

When we had fired our steond voDey of fusils,' we 
thought they stopped a little, and I hoped they would 
have gone off ; but it was but a moment, for others 
• came forward again, so we tired our vclleys of pistols ; 
and I believe in these foui' firings we killed seventeen 
or eiglrtcen of them, Im.d lamed twice as many, yet 
they came on again. , , 

I was loath to spend our last shot too hastily ; so 
I c;lSed ray servant, not my man Friday, for he was 
better employed — for, with the greatest dexterity 
injaginable, he charged my fusil and •his own while 
we were engaged — but, as I saiQ, L called my other 
man, and giving him a horn of nowder,,! bade him 
lay a train all afong the piece W timber, and let it 
be a lefge train ; he did so, and had but time to get 
a\fay, when the wolves came up to it, and some were 
got upon it ; when I, si^apping an uncharged pistol 
close to the powder, set *ii on fire ; and those that 
were upon the timber were scorched with it, and six 
or seven of them fell, or rather jumped in among us, 
with the force and fright of the fire : we despatched 



344 . ROBINSON CRUSOE 

<^hese in an instant, and the lest were so frighted with 
th^ light, which the night, lor now it was very dark, 
made more twrible, that thfey drewrback a little. 

Upon which I ordered our last pistols to be fired off 
in one volley, and after that we gave a shout : upon 
this, the wolves turned tail, and, we sallied immediately 
upon near twenty lame ones, ^hich we found strug- 
gling on the ground, and fell a-cutting them with 'Our 
swords, which answered oiir expectation ; for the cry- 
ing and howling they made were better understood 
by their felfows, so tliat they fled and left us. 

We had, first and last, killed about threescore of 
them ; rand had it been daylight, we had killed many 
more. The field of battle being thus cleared, we made 
for^^ard again ; for wq had still near a league to go. 
We heard the ravenous creatures howl and yell in tke 
woods, as we went several times, and sometimes we 
fancied we saw some of ’• them, but the* snow dazzling 
oiu: eyes, we were not certain ; so in about an hour 
more, we came to the town where we were to lodge, 
which we found in a terrible fright, and all in arms ; . 
for it seems that the night before, the wolves and 
some bears had broken into that' village, and put them 
in a terrible fright ; and they were obliged to keep 
guard night and day, but especially in the night, to 
preserve their cattle, and indeed their people. 

The next morning our guide was sG ill, and his 
limbs so swelled with the rankling of his two wounds, 
that he could go^ no^farther ; so we were obliged to 
take a new guide there and go to lhqlouse, where we 
found a warm clinfdte, a fruitful, '^pleasant country, 
and no snow, no wolves or anything like tliem ', but 
when we told our story at Thblouse, they told nsr^it 
was nothing but what was qrdinary in the great forest 
at the foot of the mountaii.s, especially when the snow 
lay on the ground ; but they inquired much what 
kind of a guide we had gotten, that would venture to 
bring us that way in such a severe season, and told 



ROBINS 0 N CRUSOE. 345 

os, jt was very strange were not all cievoure^ 
When we told them how we placed ourselves, and tKc 
horses in the middle, they blamed us . exceedingly, 
and told us it was fiity to one but we had been 
all destroyed — iot it was the sight of the hoi^es 
that. made the wolves, '-%o furious, seeing their prey 
— ^and that at \other * times they are really afraid 
of a gun : but they being exceedingly hungry, and 
raging pn that account,* the eagerness to come at 
the horses had made them senseless of danger, and that 
if we had not by the continued fire, and ai last by the 
stratagem of the train of powder, mastered them, it 
had been great odds but that we had been ^orn to 
pieces ; whereas, had /we been content to have sat 
still on horseback, and fired as, horsemen) they wAuld 
jict have taken the horses so much for theii* own when 
men were on their back as otherwise ; and wit^hal 
they told us, that at last, it \vc had stdod altogether 
and left our horses, they would have been so eager 
' to have devoured them, that we might have come 
► off safe, especially having pur fire-arrixS in our hands, 
and being so many in^number. 

For^fny part, I was never so sensible of danger in 
my life ; for seeing above three himdred devils come 
roaring and open-mouthed to devour us, and having 
nothing to shelter us or retreat to, I gave myself Uver 
for lost, and as it was, I believe I sli^l never care to 
cposs those mountains again; I ^ think* I would much 
rather go a thousand leagues by sua,, though I were 
sure to meet with* a storm pij^ a-week. I have 
nothing uncommon to take notl/e of in my pas^sage 
through France, nothing but what other travellers 
hjfve given an accounf of with much more advantage 
than I can. I travelled ,|rom Tholouse to Paris, and 
without any considerable 'stay came to Calais, and 
landed safe at Dover the 14th of Jaimary.^after having 
had a severe cold season to travel in. 

1 was now come to the centre of my travels, and 



346 'ROBINSON rjKUSOE 

hjjd in a little time all my pew-discovered estate, safe 
about me, the bills of exchjjige which I brought with 
me having bten very currently paid. 

My principal guide and prf\^ counseller was my 
good ancient widow, who, in jgratitiide for the money 
I had sent her, thought no pz^ins too much, or* caie 
too great, to employ for me ; and I trusted her so 
entirely with everything, that I was perfectly easy 
as to the security of my effects ; • and indeed I was very 
happy from^ my beginning, and now to the end, in 
the unspotted integrity of this good gentle-woman. 

And now I began to think of leaving my effects 
with this woman, and setting out for Lisbon, and so 
to the Brazils. But now anbther scruple came in the 
way, and that was religion ; for as I had entertained 
some doulits about the Roman religion, even while 
I was abroad, especially^in my state of solitude, so I 
knew there was no going to the Brazils for me, much 
less going to settle there, unless I resolved to embrace 
the Roman Catholic religion, without any reserve ; 
except, on the bther hand, *1 resolved to be a sacrifice ' 
to my principles, be a' raartyf, to religion, and die 
in the Inquisition : so I resolved to stay at home, 
and, if I could filid means for it, to dispose of my 
plantation. 

To this purpose I wrote to my old friend Ut LisBon, 
who in return, gave me notice, that he could easily 
dispose of it there ; ^ut that if I thought fit to give 
him leave to offer' it in my name to the two merchants, 
the i^urvivors of my, tpistees, who ‘lived in the Brazils, 
who must fully understand the value of it, wljo lived 
just upon the spot, and whom I knew to be very rich, 
so that he believed they would be fond of bu 3 nhg 
it, he did not doubt but I, should make four or five 
thousand pieces of eight tlie more of it. 

Accordingly, I agreed, gave him orders to offer it 
to them, and he did so ; and in about eight months 
more, the ship being then returned, he sent me an 



• ROBINSC^N CRUSOE* • ^ 34/ 

account, that they had accepted the offer, and 
remitted thirty-three thotWand pieces of eight to a 
correspondent of theirs at' Lisbon to pay for it. In 
return, I signed ^he instrument of sale in the form 
wjiich they sent from I*isbon, and sent it to my old 
man,* who sent me the bills of excliange for thirty- 
threp thousand pieces of eight for the estate ; reserv- 
ing the payment of one hundred moidores a-year to 
him (thfe old man) during his life, and fifty moidores 
afterwards to his son for nis life, which I h.;id promised 
them, and which the plantation was to make good as 
a rent-charge. 

And thus I have given the first part of a 'life of 
fortune and adventure, a life of Providence’s chequer- 
work, and of a variety which the world will seldom 
ibe able to show the like of : beginning foolishly, but 
closing much more happily tjian any p^irt of it 
gave me leave so much as to hope for. 

Any one would think, that in this state of compli- 
cated good fortune, I was past rum^ing any more 
* hazards, and so indeed I had been, if other circumstances 
had concurred ; but %was imired to a wandering life, ' 
had no family, nor any relations, nor, however rich, 
had 1 contracted much acquaintance ; and though 
I had -^old my estate in the Brazils, yet I could not 
keep that country out of my head, and had a great 
mind to be upon the wing again ; especially I could 
ndt resist the strong inclination J had to see my island, 
and to know if the poor Spaniards were in being there; 
and how the rogues I left there b v/i used them. 

My. true friend, the widow, earnestly dissuaded me 
frqm it, and so far prevailed with me, that almost 
for seven years she prevented my running abroad, 
during whid) time 1 took Liy two nephews, the children 
of one of my brothers, into ‘my care ; t!: eldest having 
something of his own, 1 bred up as a gentleman, and 
gave him a settlement of some addition to his estate, 
after my decease ; the other I put out to a captain 



348 'ROBINSON liRUSOE 

ship ; and after five ye^is. finding him a sensible, 
bold, enterprising young fellow, I put him into a 
good ship, and sent him to sea ’ aiM this young fellow 
afterwards drew me in, as old as I was, to further 
adventure myself. 

In the meantime, I in part settled myself here^ ; 
for, first of all, I married, and that ^ot either to my 
disadvantage or dissatisfactioa ; and had three childreOf 
two sons and one daughter. • 








