IN THE FOOTSTEPS 

OF 

ROBINSON CRUSOE 



■W 

r 


jJL 


h j.. . ^ 

1 


16 


G6vKR3srME]srT House 
WlNNIPEte 



1 appreciate 
is narrative 
I the spring 
the diary in 
land which 
le when the 
the nations 
nd immoral 
b or vicious 

it does not 
3 of a great 
,t ignorance 
the ideal of 
It degree of 
'^j which can 
i nations of 

element of 
will then be 
mple people 
I of the sur- 

•ea of over 
the area of 
0, of whom 
which is in 
f Siberia to 
jfrovide even 
fand similar 








, that refer- 

,i Bolsheviki 
general dis- 
?^ere able to 
Siberia was 
echo-Slovak 
who volun- 
:anized con- 
e of achiev- 
e Hapsburg 
biivotsk, the 
“deserters” 
if captured, 
i was with- 
I, who num- 
r, should be 
embark for 
responsible 
Vladivostok 
in scattered 
Baikal when 
at Moscow, 
iforce their 
:he railway 
ce of three 
;he story of 

wtiicn IS nut too iittie known, cleared the *^Keds" out ol Siheria, crossed the Urals 
and reached the valley of the Volga. 





\ 






In the Footprints of Robinson Crusoe 


Those who recollect the last adventurous journey of Defoe’s hero will appreciate 
the significance of the somewhat ambitious title under which I pript this narrative 
of a similar journey which I was privileged to take in the early part of the spring 
of 1919. The interest which has been displayed by those who have read the diary in 
manuscript is to be attributed to a general interest in the little known land which 
I was fortunate enough to visit under exceptional conditions at a time when the 
posture of affairs in Siberia and Russia is of profound importance to all the nations 
of the world, for every development in Russia of the destructive and immoral 
social force known as "‘Bolshevism” is the occasion for its ignorant or vicious 
sympathizers in other countries to create new disorders. 

The diary was hastily written and no one regrets more than I that it does not 
indicate to a greater degree the interesting phases of a titanic struggle of a great 
people, possessed of many attractive qualities bait handicapped by that ignorance 
which is the natural concomitant of centuries of oppression, to attain the ideal of 
a governmental system which will secure to every citizen the greatest degree of 
individual liberty compatible with the existence of an order of society which can 
enable Russia to hold the position to which she is entitled among the nations of 
the world. 

The danger is that the “intelligentsia,” the educated and thinking element of 
the population, may be exterminated by the Bolsheviks and the world will then be 
confronted with the systematic brutalization of the great mass of simple people 
comprising no less than 175,000,000 souls and occupying one-seventh of the sur- 
face of the globe. 

Siberia proper, exclusive of Russian Central Asia, covers an area of over 
5,200,000 square miles, which is more than one-third greater than the area of 
Canada. The total population at the present time is about 14,000,0Q0, of whom 
probably 2,000,000 are refugees from that part of European Russia which is in 
the grip of the Bolsheviki. These refugees have thronged the cities of Siberia to 
such an extent that it has been quite impossible for the authorities to provide even 
the elemental necessities of life, and they fall easy victims to typhus and similar 
diseases. 

The baldest outline of the Siberian situation must be given in order that refer- 
ences in the diary may be understood. When, iff November, 1917, the Bolsheviki 
swept from power the inept and vacillating Kerensky, such was the general dis- 
organization among the patriotic elements of the country that they were able to 
extend their sway over Siberia to the Pacific at Vladivostok. That Siberia was 
the first considerable portion of Russia to be freed is due to the Czecho-Slovak 
Volunteer Army formed from former conscripts of the Austrian Army who volun- 
tarily surrendered to their fellow Slavs, the Russians, and then, in organized con- 
tingents, assisted in the struggle against the Central Powers in the hope of achiev- 
ing the independence of their beloved Bohemia, long crushed beneath the Hapsburg 
yoke. When the Bolsheviki signed the disgraceful peace of Brest-Livotsk, the 
Czecho-Slovaks (Czechs) were left in a very dangerous position. As “deserters” 
from the Austrian Armies they were liable to punishment of death if captured, 
while the Russian aid which had hitherto armed and supported them was with- 
drawn. After prolonged negotiations, it was arranged that the Czechs, who num- 
bered about 86,000, with a limited quantity of arms and ammunition, should be 
moved over the Trans-Siberian Railway to Vladivostok and there embark for 
service in France, the French Government having agreed to become responsible 
for their equipment and maintenance. Some of the Czechs reached Vladivostok 
and awaited transport there; the balance of the force was distributed in scattered 
echelons moving east along the railway between the Urals and Lake Baikal when 
suddenly the Bolsheviki, instigated by Mirbach, German Ambassador at Moscow, 
made the demand that the Czechs should entirely disarm and, to enforce their 
demand, treacherously attacked a party of Czechs detraining at the railway 
station at Irkutsk. The result was that the Czechs within the space of three 
months, in the course of a series of magnificent and gallant actions the story of 
which is but too little known, cleared the “Reds” out of Siberia, crossed the Urals 
and reached the valley of the Volga. 


1 


2 

This development, as well as the shortage of transport, decided the Supreme 
War Council at Versailles that the attempt should be made to support the Czechs 
by an Allied detachment which would co-operate in establishing an Eastern Front 
against the Germans. After tortuous negotiations, it was determined that Japan, 
the United States, Great Britain, France and Italy would send.^ontingents, the 
British representation consisting of a Canadian brigade, of which' 'dhS battalioniof 
infantry would be Imperial troops. The Japanese were the first to act and their 
troops did excellent work in “mopping up” the country east of Lake Baikal and 
clearing the railway. Owing to misunderstandings and local differences and de- 
lays, none of the Allies had any Forces actually at the Front when the armistice 
was signed and the “raison d’etre” of the expedition was removed. None of the 
Allied Powers had any declared and definite policy in the light of this development, 
and all the winter the leaders of the different detachments in Siberia were left 
largely without instructions and guidance. Any concerted and vigorous action was,, 
therefore, impossible, and the winter was passed in inevitable differences and 
trivial disputes between the Allied commands and with the Russian authorities. 

Meanwhile Great Britain had sent, in addition to the Canadian Brigade, Mili- 
tary Mission at the head of which is Major-General Sir Alfred Knox, K.C.B., 
former Military Attache of the Embassy at Petrograd, a most vigorous and capa- 
ble man, “persona grata” with the Russians. 

When the Czechs had cleared the Bolshevik from Siberia in the early summer of 
1918, there was formed at Ufa the “Directorate’ of Five,” a coalition all-Russian 
government in which the Socialists or Radicals were predominant. A government 
of a similar complexion was organized at Omsk to administer Siberia, the under- 
standing being that the “Directorate of Five” would deal with international affairs 
and matters pertaining to all Russia. Eventually the “Directorate of Five” moved 
its headquarters also to Omsk where a beginning had been made in the formation 
of a Russian Army to fight the Bolsheviks. The Czechs, not unnaturally, concluded 
that their reason for direct action ceased when the armistice was signed, a condi- 
tion of which was the recognition of their country Bohemia (Czecho-Slovania) as 
an independent state. But there was no Russian army available to take the field 
and, at the request of the Allies, the Czechs consented to hold the front until such 
time as arrangements could be made for their relief. 

Just at this time (November 19, 1918) Admiral Kolchak, the Minister of War 
in the Omsk Government, executed a /“coup d’etat,” overthrew the “Directorate of 
Five” and the former Omsk Government on the grounds that he had discovered 
proof of their disloyal trafficings with the Bolsheviki and their neglect of the 
paramount duty of organizing an effective fighting force to establish a free Russia. 
Kolchak deported the leaders of the governments and assumed the powers of a 
dictator with the title of Supreme Ruler. 

This caused discussions and dissensions not only among the Siberian population 
but also among the Allies, Great Britain and France being regarded as more or 
less sympathetic to Kolchak while Japan and the United States were inclined to 
be adverse. Thus, while Great Britain and France provided large supplies of 
equipment and munitions for the Siberian Armies under the supervision of General 
Knox, the help from Japan and America, until the month of May at least, was 
negligible. The Czechs withdrew from the Froi^t in January and February and 
their places were filled by the raw levies of Kolchak, who, after some striking 
successes in March and April, have recently (July and August, 1919) been forced 
to retire almost to Omsk, abandoning the rich industrial district of the Urals and 
the populous cities of Perm, Ekaterinburg, Nijni Tagil, Kungar, Ufa, Slatoust 
and Cheliabinsk to the ravages of the Red Guards. 

Whether Kolchak’s Government will be able to withstand the shock of these 
disasters will soon be known, but, if it falls and the country relapses into the 
barbarism from which it>was so gallantly rescued by the Czechs, no small measure 
of guilt will attach to those idealistic leaders of the Allies who, bent on pursuing 
illusory ideals of democracy, refused to extend any material aid to Admiral Kol- 
chak who, while perhaps in what he regarded as a time of peril for the state 
resorted to somewhat arbitrary measures, yet is universally recognized even by 
his political opponents as a man of high character and great ability actuated only 
by a zeal for what he considers to be the welfare of his native land. 

1919 

March 11. — To-day at noon left Vladivostok on General Knox’s train for the 
West. The train consists of several wagons of stores, a third-class coach fitted 
up for the guard, a coach fitted up for officers, a dining car, a corridor drawing- 


3 


room car and, finally, the General’s personal car. My quarters are in the corridor ^ 
drawing-room car. Sergt. Labatt, who is going to Omsk, shares the double com- 
partment, one part of which is fitted up as an office. The sleeping compartment 
has a lower and an upper berth. The berths are considerably longer than the 
ordinary Pullman car berths and are very comfortable. The compartment is very 
finely furnished and fitted up with tables, shelves, chairs, etc. It is a matter of 
some amusement to us to observe that we have one of the best compartments on 
the train and have in our car no officers of a rank lower than that of Major. Our 
meals we get in the guards’ car and the food is both good and abundant. A Rus- 
sian chef is employed and the food is cooked “a la Russe.^’ Our allowance is 
twenty roubles a day for messing. We are charged fifteen roubles a day for meals 
and have the additional five roubles for extras. All these are merely details as to 
accommodation which may have some interest to you, though they could scarcely 
be countenanced in a more dignified narrative. By the way, I omitted to mention 
that the train is equipped throughout with electric lights and in our car there is a 
shower-bath. 

After leaving Vladivostok, there was little of special interest until at 6 p.m. we 
reached Nikolsk-Ussuriski, a large and well-built town boasting electric lights. 
Already we notice that it is colder and there is much more snow apparent than at 
Vladivostok. Nikolsk-Ussuriski is the junction of the northern line of the Trans- 
Siberian system which runs north through the Amur River Valley to Habarovsk 
and then west, and the southern route, which we are taking, the Chinese Eastern 
Railway through Manchuria. 

March 12. — Owing to train delays, it was only this morning that we crossed the 
Manchurian frontier and found ourselves in the Chinese Empire, or rather the 
Chinese Republic. The railway line is guarded by detachments of Chinese troops 
who wear a light grey uniform generally pretty dirty and badly creased, and who 
are more or less, chiefly less, soldierly in bearing. The ground is almost every- 
where covered with snow and the country through which we are passing is un- 
attractive, hills and rocks with here and there a little cultivation in the valleys. 
Such peasant homes as we passed were generally built of mud, but the surround- 
ings were less untidy than might be imagined. Our train stops at frequent and 
very irregular intervals giving us a much appreciated chance of exercise. We are 
interested in watching the “fueling” of our engines which are mainly wood- 
burners. The tender has to be replenished from the piles of wood ready at certain 
stations. The station buildings are all surprisingly good. I cannot say as much 
for the equipment of such ordinary trains as we have seen. They consist of a 
string of box cars and each car is filled literally to the roof. In some instances a 
concession in respect of ventilation has been made by the cutting of a small hole 
about a foot square on each side from which you may see a Chinese head pro- 
truding at intervals. 

This morning I had my first interview with my immediate chief, Major Cameron, 
and from what he tells me I am going to have an exceptional opportunity of see- 
ing Siberia. Although I am the only clerk on the train available for the British 
Mission work (Sergt. Labatt being Clerk to Col. Brook, A. A. and Q.M.G. of the 
Canadian Expeditionary Force) I do not think my duties will be arduous though 
they give promise of being interesting. 

In my recital of the domestic arrangements I omitted to remark that we have 
breakfast at 8, lunch at 1, tea at 5, and dinner at 8. 

March 13. — When we wakened we were in Harbin, the commercial metropolis 
of Manchuria and a city which I have seen described in books as “the toughest 
town on earth.’’ Of the accuracy of this description I could not judge because I 
could not find time to leave the train. It is a larger city than Vladivostok and I 
understand everything is much cheaper. It is a very important centre of trade 
as here converge the line from Vladivostok and the lines from the southern Chinese 
centres. Coolie labour is abundant and cheap. The “droshkies” and the “rick- 
shaws” are in competition, and the city itself is a combination of China and Russia. 

We left Harbin at 12 noon and all afternoon have been speeding (pardon me, on 
the Chinese Eastern one does not speed) over the great Manchurian plain. A 
dozen times I have looked out of the window and thought of Saskatchewan, for 
lu pure and simple. The soil is that rich, black earth so characteristic of 

the Red River Valley and there is not a tree to be seen. Everywhere there are 
great mountains of grain awaiting shipment; apparently last year’s harvest has 
not been moved and it is piled along the right of way. 


4 


About 5 p.m. we reached Anda, a large Manchurian town. The towns seem to 
be built about a mile distant from the stations. Why I do not know, but my theory 
is that speculators must have bought the townsites along the line and that the 
Manchus refused to “be bled.” The houses seem to be long, low structures capa- 
ble of accommodating several families, and occasionally we see the compounds 
which one associates with China. At Anda we were offered cooked fowls at 5 
roubles each, but I observed that they were cooked with their heads on, and, no 
doubt, with their internal organs intact, and I was not tempted. 

March 14. — Not a great deal to record to-day. During the morning we travelled 
through a bare country with hills, somewhat resembling the Medicine Hat dis- 
trict. Villages are very few and such as there are populated, apparently, with 
railway workers. There is very little cultivated land. During the afternoon we 
passed a mountain chain and, being on higher levels, the ground was covered with 
snow. Following the descent our way was through another belt of prairie thinly 
populated. 

March 15. — We passed Manchuria Station in the early morning and so we are 
again in Russia. The country is rolling with considerable stretches of prairie. 
The ground is nearly everywhere covered with snow although the horses, cattle 
and sheep are grazing in the open. More surprising still we occasionally pass 
herds of camels, evidently from the Gobi Desert of Mongolia which lies to the 
south of the railway. It is interesting to see the camels domesticated; a few min- 
utes ago I saw a string of about twenty, each of them pulling a load of hay. At 
another place we saw a shepherd mounted on a camel as he tended his sheep, a 
picture which I associated more with the burning sands of Arabia than with bleak 
Siberia. The stations are few and the settlements small. The line is protected by 
Japanese troops and recently, in the western section, by Czecho-Slovaks also. At 
one station, Olovyanna, we spent a little time and were interested to see the row 
of peasant women on the station platform selling bread and milk to travellers. 
Just before reaching Olovyanna, we crossed the river Onon on a huge bridge and 
one that has a history. During the Czech retreat eastward. General Gaida had 
one mighty span blown up in order to impede the Bolsheviks; when, in course of 
events, the Bolsheviks were fleeing westward, they blew up another span to pre- 
vent pursuit by the Czechs. The Czechs constructed a pontoon bridge which, 
until very lately, has been in use. Now, however, the broken spans have been 
replaced by great wooden trestles of immense height and our train passed over 
the reconstructed bridge. 

At the stations to-day we saw many Mongolians, in physique superior to most 
Chinamen, wearing a picturesque costume. The men wear thick, colored garments 
drawn in by a cord or belt at the waist and trimmed with white wool at the 
sleeves. They wear a sort of “parka” or hood, lined and edged with white wool 
and having a sharp peak at the rear from which may descend fancy cords some- 
what in the nature of a tassel. One rotund old chap to-day, whose costume was 
entirely red save for the white wool edgings of the sleeves and hood, might, with- 
out the slightest change, have admirably impersonated Santa Claus at a Sunday 
School Christmas Tree. 

March 16. — We had expected a stay of several hours at Chita which we reached 
this morning about one o’clock but the train remained only an hour. Consequently 
I have nothing to report concerning the beauties of the city of Chita. However, 
as all our Russian friends assure us that Chita is “nyet harrishaw” (the spelling 
of that always useful word “harrishaw” is entirely phonetical) I do not expect we 
missed a great deal. 

All day we have been in a country which, in our Canadian eyes, had a strong- 
resemblance to the Ottawa Valley: in jthe distance a range of purple mountains 
reminding us of the Laurentians. The weather has been delightfully clear and 
mild, though the ground is fairly well covered with snow. The towns we passed 
were few in number, most of them existing obviously because of railway divisional 
points and having uniform houses for railway employees, such as the C.P.R. have 
at Cartier and similar places. Most of the houses, indeed all, are constructed of 
logs sometimes hewn and sometimes rough, and of course unpainted. We now see 
few Mongolians or Chinese, the population is Russian. We had a new member at 
mess this morning, a soldier of the 17th Bengal Lancers, who boarded the train at 
Chita and is on his way to Omsk. As he spent more than three years at the front 
in France he speaks a little French and a little Russian. At the same table we 
have two Russians who speak only their own language, so our conversation is in 


5 


English, Russian, French and a little Indian, but chiefly gesticulation. I do not 
think I mentioned— perhaps I did— that until we left Manchuria our engines were 
combined wood and coal burners and it was very amusing to see the train held up 
while some coolies took w^ood from a pile at the side of the track and pitched it 
up to the fireman. 

This evening our train stopped for an hour while the General visited some ex- 
tensive coal mines along the railway, which were recovered froni the Bolsheviks 
only two weeks ago and which are again in operation. The coal is found only 60 
feet from the surface so, instead of sinking shafts, the operators simply remove 
the top soil. I began to imagine that this might be one of the mines to which 
political exiles were banished in the days of the Romanovs and so one of the 
breeding places of revolution until I found that it had been in operation only 
three years. 

Have I mentioned that at each stop the train is guarded by a sentry with fixed 
bayonet which he does not hesitate to use should any unauthorized person attempt 
to board it? This is especially necessary on the way east because, as passenger 
trains have practically ceased to run, rnany people are desperately eager to reach 
Harbin or Vladivostok or some other oif the large towns. 

Our next big stop is Irkutsk which we shall probably reach to-morrow. I am 
afraid we are likely to miss the famous scenery around Lake Baikal as we will 
probably go by in the night. 


March 17. — Another bright day. As it happend we did not pass Lake Baikal at 
night and, during all this morning, we have been enjoying the scenery which, 
while perhaps not as majestic as that of the Canadian Rockies, is nevertheless 
remarkably fine. The Lake, which is one of the largest in the world, is surrounded 
on all sides by mountains and the railway runs along the side of this mountain 
chain, clinging as it were to the precipitous sides of the mountains and burrowing 
its way through innumerable tunnels and rock cuttings. There are, it is said, 
between 150 and 200 tunnels, most of which we passed through in the night, but 
1 counted 39 tunnels in the two-hour run after we left Sluiadenkia (pronounced 
“Slewdanka), a most attractive little place on the shore of the lake and having 
snow-capped peaks on every side. At Sluiadenkia we stayed about half an hour 
and had a conversation with a twelve-year-old Russian boy who spoke a little 
French which, he explained, he learned from a book. Just west of Sluiadenkia, 
we saw what was, apparently, a church on wheels, a railway carriage with the 
usual Greek cross and an array of bells, and, through the windows, I could discern 
an altar and a reading desk. Have I mentioned that nearly all the railway wait- 
ing rooms have a shrine, the chief feature of which is an ikon, a large holy picture, 
before which the devout traveller may burn a candle, I presume in the hope of a 
safe and profitable journey? Every Russian edifice I have been in — cafe, store, 
office, residence or station — has its ikon usually fastened in a corner of the room 
near the ceiling. 

I have made so many comparisons with Canada that I scarcely like to venture 
on another, but the scenery about Lake Baikal reminded me of the best “bits” on 
the north shore of Lake Superior, except that the hills are covered with snow. At 
present the lake is frozen over. After leaving Baikal we ran through the valley 
of the Angara River to, Irkutsk, one of the largest and most important cities of 
Siberia, which we reached at 3.20 p.m. The city is built on the opposite side of 
the broad river froni the railway station and, in winter, one crosses the ice. In 
summer communication is by means of a pontoon bridge. So, for a certain period, 
in the fall and spring when the ice is forming and breaking up, the city is shut off 
from the railway. It was at Irkutsk that there occurred less than a year ago the 
first attack of the Bolsheviks on the Czechs. The Czechs, as you know, were 
Austrian prisoners of war of the Slavonic race who had willingly surrendered 
themselves to the Russians and formed themselves into detachments and fought 
bravely in the Russian ranks. After the Bolshevik coup d’etat and the treaty 
of peace signed at Brest-Livotsk, the Czechs determined to withdraw to Vladivos- 
tok where they were to embark for France. At the instigation of the German 
Ambassador at Moscow, the Bolsheviks determined to prevent their leaving with 
arms and so as some Czechs detrained at Irkutsk station, the Bolsheviks fired on 
them with machine guns concealed in the station and killed 60. Within an hour 
^e Czechs had captured the station and most of the city and, instead of going to 
France, they proceeded to sweep the Bolsheviks from Siberia, 


6 


Good news in the papers to-day as I understand Ufa has been recaptured from 
the Bolsheviks. This will greatly encourage the new Russian Army. 

More of Irkutsk to-morrow, I hope. 

March 18. — Weather, as usual in Siberia, delightfully clear.' At 10.30, accom- 
panied by Sergt. Labatt, set out to see Irkutsk. We crossed to the city on the 
ice, stopping for a minute to observe some women washing clothes through a hole 
in the ice, apparently quite happy in spite of the bitter cold. On reaching the 
northern bank, the first building on the right was a large white structure evidently 
used for official purposes. The white walls of this building were pitted like a 
pockmarked face and, on enquiring, we found that our surmise was correct and 
that the marks were made by the bullets of the Czechs when driving the Bol- 
sheviks from the city. Near by there was a pleasant little park at the river’s 
edge, the central feature of which was a remarkably fine monument to the Em- 
peror Alexander III. The Bolsheviks must have overlooked this, because it was 
not defaced or mutilated. One of their first actions when they gain control of a 
city is to deface monuments, removing all crowns and Imperial insignia. We asked 
two Czechs some questions but as our only common tongue was Russian — and 
very little of that— before we quite realized the situation, we were taken to the 
Czecho-Slovak Consulate, led through an ante-room filled with Czech officers who 
very politely stood at attention, and ushered into the presence of the Consul him- 
self, who, in French, asked our wishes. My French is very weak at the best and 
it all seemed to escape me at this moment especially, but I managed to explain 
that we had not intended to bother him but that two of his soldiers had misunder- 
stood our inquiries for the British Consulate and that our only wish was to see 
the shops and interesting buildings in Irkutsk. The Consul (a major in the Czech 
Army and Professor of the University of Prague, Joseph Blahoz) was kind enough 
to say that he would give us a Czech soldier to escort us through the city. It 
turned out that our cicerone was Private Ernest Koubichka, a graduate of the 
Sorbonne in Paris and Professor of French in the University of Prague. He 
speaks French, German, Russian and Czech perfectly, but English he taught him- 
self while in captivity following his capture by the Russians in 1914. With Kou- 
bichka we made a circuit of the town. 

Irkutsk is located very picturesquely at the junction of the Irk;ut and Kuda Rivers 
with the Angara. From the heights north of the town, General Gaida,.in July 
last, led the Czech forces when they routed the Bolsheviks. We saw the prison, 
which in the time of the Czar was used for “political prisoners,” now occupied by 
about 1,000 Bolsheviks and 1,000 other convicts. The buildings in Irkutsk are, on 
the main street, very good but, as in all Siberian towns, the side streets are poor, 
many of the houses being built of logs. The churches, however, are remarkably 
fine and Irkutsk is certainly “the city of churches.” There must be a score of 
large churches of the orthodox faith. The churches are nearly all built of white 
brick or white plaster and, as they glisten in the sunlight, they are most impres- 
sive. From one point, we could see down the river several monasteries beautifully 
white under the bright sun and making a delightful picture. The roofs of the 
churches and monasteries are green with mosque-like towers and the effect is very 
fine. The Cathedral, a massive pile, was not open so we did not have the oppor- 
tunity of inspecting it. Even the Cathedral was chipped and defaced with rifle 
bullets. Irkutsk is the religious and educational centre for Siberia and there are 
very large seminaries, colleges and so forth. We saw also a large orphanage, the 
first philanthropic institution, with the exception of hospitals, which I have seen 
in Russia. There is a very large and handsome theatre. It was impossible to 
secure tickets but we were told that the stock company was exceptionally good, 
consisting of leading actors of European Russia now refugees. There are numer- 
ous motion picture shows and I was especially interested to see on one bill-board 
“The Fearless Film Feature Star — Helen Holmes” in the 13th episode of some 
serial picture. We visited the bazaar, even more crowded and, in some respects, 
more dirty than that of Vladivostok. Such stalls as there were were built of wood, 
one thickness of boards, but most of the goods were sold from tables in the open 
or even from baskets on the ground. In spite of alarming reports at Vladivostok 
of an absolute lack of goods “up the line” there seemed to be quite a variety of 
merchandise, although the prices, for Russia, were extremely high. We saw sev- 
eral lines of people waiting at certain shops and were told that there bread was 
distributed at very low prices to the poor, a sort of “soup kitchen.” We had lunch 
at quite a nice cafe, boasting an orchestra, and the price (6 roubles 50 kopecks) 
was less than for a similar meal in Vladivostok. We had “bourse” (a Russian 


1 

S6up in which meat is placed as well as vegetables with a peculiar sauce), and 
game (rapchick) with rice. For dessert we had ice-cream, but that was an extra. 
The ice-cream was the first I have seen in Russia and I did not grudge the some- 
what extraordinary charge of five roubles (50 cents) a portion. In the afternoon, 
we bought a few, very few, picture postcards as the cost was 2 roubles 50 kopecks 
each. We continually saw traces of the Bolshevik occupation, for instance a little 
park in which one fine morning they murdered thirty Russian officers; buildings 
defaced with bullet marks; grewsome postcards showing heaps of dead, etc. Oii a 
hill overlooking the river we saw immense barracks in course of construction, de- 
signed to accommodate a whole army corps, 50,000 men. There are large brick-- 
works in this section and most of the important buildings, except some of the 
churches, are of red brick. Irkutsk is the most Russian place I have yet been in as 
the foreign population of Vladivostok makes it a very cosmopolitan city. In Ir- 
kutsk there are, of course, large numbers of Chinese and Mongolians, but the vast 
majority of the people are Russians. Did I mention that we had soldier Koubichka 
to tea and that Labatt returned with him to the city to visit a “movie” while I 
remained on duty? 

March 19. — All this morning I have been occupied in handling and opening 
Red Cross boxes, and a distribution to Russian soldiers took place about noon, each 
man receiving a suit of pyjamas (to be used as underwear), a towel, a pair of 
socks, a shirt and a handkerchief. The regiments which participated were the Za- 
Baikal, Irkutsk and Verkheudinsk Cossacks, and the Siberian Cadie Regiment. 
One battalion had a band and at the conclusion of the distribution, the regiment 
was inspected by General Knox who addressed them briefly in Russian. The 
British and Russian National Anthems were played by the band and cheers were 
given for General Knox and Great Britain. It is of interest to note that the sup- 
plies were Canadian Red Cross supplies and that more than one-third of them 
were marked “From Winnipeg.” I had several Cossacks detailed to assist my 
fatigue party in lifting boxes and one of them gave me accidentally a biff in the 
eye which, had I not dodged in time, might have made me the first casualty of the 
C.E.F. (Siberia), or should it be B.M.M. ? There was a little snow in the after- 
noon and it has become decidedly colder. 

March 20. — We left Irkutsk shortly after midnight and by to-night reached the 
Tomsk Goobernia, so we are now in Western Siberia, the most fertile part of 
Siberia. Seventy per cent, of the population live in Western Siberia in the Goo- 
bernias of Tomsk and Tobolsk and the Districts of Akmolinsk and Semipalatinsk. 
The part of the country we are now traversing is politically the least tranquil of 
any section of the railway. The Czechs are in force guarding the railway from 
Irkutsk west. At Zima this morning we crossed the Oka River. At Zima station 
M'e passed a British ammunition train which left Vladivostok on March 3rd bound 
for Omsk. At 5 p.m. we passed through Nijnheudinsk, a large town and an im- 
portant railway centre, otherwise without interest. The country through which 
we have been travelling is rolling and wooded, a range of mountains to the south. 
The trees are chiefly spruce or tamarac and pine with quite an amount of white 
birch. Our train is now equipped with very powerful coal-burning engines — in 
some parts of the line, two engines— so we have been making excellent time, av- 
eraging, I should judge, 45 versts an hour. We are at this moment — 6.30 — passing 
a Siberian village located in a valley far below the level of the railway. As it lies 
there so peacefully, not a sign of life about the unpainted log huts, the crudity of 
whose lines is softened by a seating sun, I dubbed it “Sleepy Hollow.” In these 
parts the snow is still fairly deep. 

March 21.— Another bright and mild day. Although Bolsheviks are reported 
to be in the district through which we travelled to-day, the country seemed 
peaceful enough. All we saw was an occasional village and now and then a 
peasant driving a sleigh taking his produce to market. In the night, however, as 
a meagre of precaution, the electric lights were turned off and some of the Rus- 
sian officials seemed a little nervous. This morning we passed a station where a 
massive Czech armoured car was drawn up on a siding. The car had 8 Lewis 
machine guns and one 18-pounder and was a formidable-looking moving fortress. 

r crossed the Yeniseisk River, one of the most important rivers 

of Siberia, flowing into the Arctic Ocean. Exactly at twelve noon our train 
pulled into the station at Krasnoyarsk. Here the General was received by an im- 
posing array of dignitaries and by a guard of honour composed of three detach- 
ments, on the right Czechs, in the centre Italians, on the left British. During the 


8 


inspection of the guard and the march past afterwards, the Czech band played 
stirring airs. The big drum was conveniently placed on a sleigh hauled by a 
donkey. After lunch I helped in the unloading of 73 cases of Canadian Red Cross 
supplies, pyjamas, shirts, socks, towels, dressing gowns, handkerchiefs, jam, etc., 
for the hospital here, and, following this, started out to explore the City of Kras- 
noyarsk. It is quite a large place and covers an extensive area. I confined my 
peregrinations to the main street — “bolshoy ooletsah” — which, as in most Siberian 
towns, has some surprisingly fine buildings. I visited the Cathedral, an imposing 
edifice of pink “plaster,” but it is evidently quite new as the altar and the whole 
interior were ablaze with garish gilt decorations. In this church I saw the first 
pulpit which I have noticed in a Greek Church. I then visited the bazaar which, 
as usual, I found very interesting. This bazaar differs from those I saw at Vladi- 
vostok and Irkutsk in the large number of peasant women who were selling farm 
products from their sleighs. They were selling curdled cream, cheese, potatoes, 
parsnips, carrots and pickled cabbage. I priced the potatoes and, for a small can, 
containing, I should judge, a peck, the charge was 4 roubles (40 cents). Krasnoy- 
arsk has several fine theatres and motion picture houses. I visited one of the 
former and found the auditorium, evidently also used for dances, to be handsomely 
decorated and in excellent taste, pure white throughout, somewhat resembling the 
ball-room of the Royal Alexandra. I looked at another church, this one evidently 
an older structure with decorations more subdued or mellowed by age. Some sort 
of service was in progress, or it may have been confession. The worshippers 
passed, one by one, behind a screen where the priest appeared to read to them 
from some book after which they devoutly knelt and kissed an ikon. I presume 
this was a Saint’s Day and that the reading was the story of the Holy Man. There 
are several parks and open squares in Krasnoyarsk. This is a matter which does 
not seem to have been neglected in Siberian cities as most of them have many 
open spaces. On my way back to the train, I had a glass of coffee with whipped 
cream, cakes, etc., in an up-to-date restaurant and the charge was Comparatively 
reasonable (5 roubles 50 kopecks). 

I met a detachment of the new Siberian Army, I should think about 100 strong, 
marching and singing lustily. They made quite a good appearance. There are 
at Krasnoyarsk, in addition to the Russian troops, about 3,000 Czechs, 1,500 
Italians and some 200 British. The Italian and British troops are quartered in 
the same building and relations between them are very good. The troops fre- 
quently “stand to” at night in expectation of a Bolshevik attack but nothing has 
yet materialized. Though Krasnoyarsk is supposed to be the fur-trading centre 
of Siberia and one of the leading fur markets of the world, I saw very few skins 
offered for sale and none of special quality. I had a very fine Russian steam bath 
and then spent the evening in my office. The Allied troops, except guards, are 
confined to barracks after 8 p.m. and it is not healthy for Allied soldiers to go 
about unarmed, especially at night. 

March 22. — We left Krasnoyarsk at 5 a.m. Found the weather to-day much 
colder and there is plenty of snow. The only interesting stop of the day was at 
Achinsk, where we remained an hour. 10,000 cigarettes and 120 officers’ presents 
were given to the Russian Commandant. The railway is garrisoned by Czechs. 
Bolshevik raiding parties are not infrequent but a party of Cossacks is now oper- 
ating and it is expected the Bolsheviks will soon be rounded up. At Achinsk we 
sa\v an elaborate armoured train with another car in course of construction. The 
basis of the car was a heavy American type steel coal car. The steel sheeting is 
reinforced by sand or gravel about 12 inches or 15 inches deep. The engine was 
protected by steel sheets along the sides and over the wheels. At 9 p.m. we ar- 
rived at Taiga, one of the largest stations on the line. It is here that the spur 
runs north to the important city of Tomsk. I looked at the station, an immense 
building and filled with the usual motley crowd of soldiers and tired-looking 
refugees. 

March 23. — At 8.30 a.m. we arrived at Novo Nikolaevsk and remained until 
11.20 p.m. Novo Nikolaevsk is a large city (70,000 or 80,000, I should think) and 
is located on the Obi River. From here a line of steamers runs up the Obi to the 
Arctic Ocean and some Siberians have formed great hopes that ultimately Siber- 
ian products will be transported to the world’s markets via the Obi, a sort of 
Hudson’s Bay Railway dream. This morning two of the men from the train, 
Sergt. Labatt being one, went out to see the sights and, after an hour-and-a-half’s 
absence, returned with the report that this was quite a small place, almost a vil- 


iage. This was puzzling, until it was discovered that the city is three versts from 
the station and what these men had visited was only the small community sur- 
rounding the station, and had missed the city altogether. After lunch we set out 
in an isvosehik and drove to the city. It is very similar to Krasnoyarsk in the 
class of buildings, but, as the snow here is still three feet deep on the level, it 
is cleaner just now, though we noticed the city dump and manure heap quite in 
the centre of the city. As usual the chief buildings were the churches and theatres. 
We entered one quite dazzling church, octagonal in shape, and brilliantly white in 
the bright sunlight. In one corner, a christening h^d just taken place, while in 
another an elderly lady was reading in a very loud voice from some book to a 
small group of listeners. Whether this is Sunday School in Novo Nikolaevsk I do 
not know. We inspected from a distance the bewildering city of barracks on a 
hill overlooking the town. I counted 20 immense brick barrack buildings and it 
impressed me with what force the old Government must have upheld its decrees. 
In every city of Siberia there are these huge barracks, some of which come in 
useful now during the mobilization of the Siberian Army. We saw several cavalry 
detachments riding through the streets. The Allied troops here are Czechs and 
Foies. At Novo Nikolaevsk is one of the largest prison camps in Siberia, more 
than 17,000 German and Austrian prisoners of war still being confined there. By 
the way, this was tag day in Novo Nikolaevsk — we fondly thought we had left 
such things behind in the civilized side of the globe. The funds were for the Rus- 
sian prisoners of war who are still being repatriated from Germany. I am afraid 
the result was not remarkably good as few tags were worn. We had tea and cakes 
in a cafe. The cakes were very indifferent in quality, no doubt on account of the 
scarcity of sugar. On our way back to the station (the platform of which, by the 
way, has been thronged with people all day though I have not seen a train arrive 
or leave) we saw the fine Commercial School. General Knox was walking a short 
distince in front of us and it amused us to see Russian soldier after Russian sol- 
dier ignore the General (who, evidently, has not enough gold braid to impress the 
Russian masses) and then most punctiliously salute the two Canadian sergeants. 
We now expect to reach Omsk on Tuesday, which will be a journey of exactly two 
weeks. 

March 24. — Very cold but delightfully bright. An uneventful day’s run through 
a prairie country, no important stops. The snow is very deep and banked against 
the sides of the low mud cottages; it reaches well nigh to the roofs — more like 
the Siberia of our North American imagination. 

March 25. — At 6.15 this morning we reached the main station of Omsk and at 
8.15 arrived at the small station in the centre of the city, having crossed the Irtish 
River. And here ends the journey for the present. The personnel of the party 
will now be changed. My companion, Labatt, leaves the train to take up his duties 
in the Canadian H.Q. at Omsk, though he finds that orders are already here for 
the Canadians to return to Vladivostok, no doubt preparatory to sailing for home. 
Others on the train scatter to various points. Present plans are that I remain on 
board and make the trip — whisper it not in Gath, tell it not in the streets of As- 
calon — into, at least a little way, European Russia. But that will have to be told 
in a supplementary chapter. 

March 30. — Since our arrival in Omsk on Tuesday morning I have been kept so 
busy that I have scarcely left the train; consequently I cannot give anyo extended 
“impressions” of Omsk. The siding upon which the train has been placed is at 
the small or “up-town” station of Omsk, from which trains run every half-hour or 
so to the large station on the main line across the Irtish* River. Near the small 
station is the barracks which has been occupied by the Middlesex Battalion and 
by the small party of Canadians. It is quite a large building but poorly lighted 
and rather cheerless. Almost opposite is an immense white brick building, the 
offices of the “Stavka” (Russian General Staff). The main street of Omsk is on 
the other side of the railway tracks. It is quite wide ajid has many very fine 
buildings, some of them huge. Of course there are the usual low log shanties 
and dirty huts. Near the bridge over the Irtish River is the Government Building, 
a long, low structure, white. This is the centre of the Kolchak Government. Not 
far away is the Cathedral, a beautiful church, set off, as most of them are, by the 
fine open spaces around it. This afternoon I had a few hours and spent some time 
driving about the city in a sleigh. We saw the theatre, a tremendous edifice and 
bearing evidences of lavish decoration, about twice as large, I should judge, as any 
theatre in Canada. The dwelling-houses are built of logs and some of them have 


10 

grounds but that is the exception. Most of them are close to the street line. Of 
course, Omsk is filled with refugees, thousands of whom, I believe, live in “dug- 
outs” as houses are unobtainable. I did not have time to visit the outlying dis- 
tricts where these “dug-outs” are to be seen and will probably do so later on as 
we leave to-night for the West and will perhaps spend some time here on the 
return trip. 

March 31. — Left Omsk at 2.30 a.m. and at 10 arrived at Petropavlovsk. The 
typhus situation has been ve.ry serious here — indeed, I heard one officer, who vis- 
ited the hospital, say that he had never seen such sights since the Indian Famine 
days. This afternoon I made a visit to the city which, as usual, is about 3 versts 
from the railway station. It resembles the other towns we have visited, but is 
very scattered. After I had been driven as I thought all about the city we came 
to the top of another hill and a larger “city” came in view. The shops appear to 
have no stocks, the only articles obtainable being butter, cheese, bread and other 
local products. There are many cheese factories, most of them owned by the all- 
powerful Co-operative Societies, and they all appeared to be going full blast. I 
had a borrowed camera with me and when we met a string of camels I took a 
snapshot. These camels are brought north from the Khirghese steppes of Cen- 
tral Asia. The driver of my sleigh told me that he was a Khirghese and a Mus- 
sulman. There are many troops of the new Siberian Army in training and I en- 
joyed watching them drill on the parade ground. They appear to be first-rate and 
are, most of them, strong, husky young fellows. 

I had a few words of appreciation this morning from the G.S.O. for my work at 
Omsk: he did not know how he would have done without me, etc. Before leaving 
Omsk, Col. Brook, the A.A. & Q.M.G. Canadians, called at my compartment to say 
that, when I returned to Vladivostok, if the bulk of the Canadians had gone, I 
should report to 4 n officer whom he named and he (Col. B.) advised me then to 
“get the first ‘Empress’ to Canada.” 

April 1. — At 8.45 a.m. we arrived at Kurgan. The General was received by a 
very smart guard of honour. This is the headquarters of one of the divisions of 
Kappel’s Corps, a special corps d’elite of the Russian Army in course of forma- 
tion. This Corps is to be provided throughout with British uniforms and equip- 
ment and trained under the supervision of British instructors. This afternoon I 
visited the city which is about three versts from the railway. Kurgan is not large 
(10,000 to 15,000) and is a straggling Siberian town. The houses are built of logs 
and a few of them are quite picturesque. There seem to be brick-works in the 
district as most of the public buildings, except the churches, are of red brick. The 
business places are few and, apparently, without goods. I inspected the Cathedral, 
an immense building, and of quite a distinct difference in architecture from the 
other Russian churches I have seen. The interior, however, is, in size, disappoint- 
ing, for the space is cut up in a multitude of small chapels and the church itself 
is not large. After leaving the Cathedral, I found my way to the market place, 
or square, where there were many recruits of the new army drilling, most of them 
as yet without uniforms. Those who have had training, however, presented a 
smarter appearance than the other Russian soldiers I have seen. On one side of 
the square was the fire-hall, a conspicuous feature of all these Siberian towns, 
and I noticed a watchman patrolling the tower, evidently charged with the duty 
of discovering fires and giving the alarm, as he looked first to the north, then east, 
south and west in turn. We do not leave Kurgan until to-morrow night. 

April 2. — This afternoon our train was moved 40 versts west of Kurgan to en- 
able the General to inspect another Division billeted in villages near Yurkamish 
Station. I had here my first opportunity of walking through a typical Siberian 
village, as hitherto our stops have been only at lacge towns. The houses were all 
built of logs, but appeared to be comfortable and reasonably tidy. There were 
three tiny shops, all but one being closed. I visited the one which was open and, 
to cover my curiosity, bought 10 envelopes at 10 kopecks each. The proprietor 
was quite an intelligent old chap and we had — or attempted to have — a friendly 
chat. The stock was, naturally, very meagre, and consisted mostly of sundries, 
the staples, clothing, boots, etc., having evidently been sold out. I priced some 
fur caps and found the prices very cheap. However, they were coarse and poorly 
made. The only buildings of size in the village were the inevitable cheese factory, 
one of the big chain of co-operative factories, and some large sheds newly con- 
structed, I assume intended for army supplies. While we were at Yurkamish, 


ii 

there was on siding a train of Russian soldiers bound for the Front, 'travelling, of 
course, in box-cars. One of the cars had evidently become out of order and, after 
a great deal of confusion, the occupants were eventually ordered to inove into 
another, which they did with great laughter and commotion. One big kit-bag be- 
came open and the contents were scattered in the mud. I was interested to see 
that, apparently, all it contained was some big loaves of black bread and what 
looked like dried potato peelings. Quite a number of peasants, men and women, 
the women weeping, were about the train, so possibly one of the detachments was 
from the district. At 7.30 p.m. we left for Kurgan and, after an hour there, pro- 
ceeded to Chelyabinsk, leaving Kurgan at 11 p.m. 

April 3.. — This morning at 7.30 arrived at Chelyabinsk, a most important city, 
and a base of supplies for the Russian armies. The boundary line between Euro- 
pean and Asiatic Russia is rather vague, but Chelyabinsk's generally regarded as 
in Europe though it is east of the Urals. There were — and are — immense railway 
works at Chelyabinsk, and, as we came through the yards, I saw at least 200 loco- 
motives out of repair. Most of them were captured last December from the Bol- 
sheviks at Perm. The station of Chelyabinsk is very large, and, on the platform, 
there was a.guard of honour — at least 400 men — to greet the General. They made 
a fine appearance. A great number of telegrams were awaiting the General here, 
with the consequence that I was kept so busy all day that I had no time to explore 
the city. However, I understand there is little of exceptional interest. When I 
first came to Siberia in December there was a proposal of making Chelyabinsk 
the headquarters for the Canadian Expeditionary Force as there is ample barracks 
accommodation. 

April 4. — We left Chelyabinsk at 2 a.m. and are now in European Russia. All 
• day we have been running through the Ural Mountain country, a general mining 
and industrial district, though now, as everywhere in Russia, few of the wheels 
are turning. The factories and plants are huge and it is almost distressing to see 
so few signs of activity. The Ural country is very picturesque. The mountains 
are not exceptionally high but, of course, just now they are covered with snow. 
They are broken by pleasant valleys, and, often, a little village may be seen nest- 
ling at the feet of ope of the higher peaks. The snow is very deep and there is 
little or no indication of spring. At 8.30 we passed through Zlatoust, a large min- 
ing centre, where we had the opportunity of purchasing predious stones at the 
stalls on the station platform. Here were rubies, diamonds, emeralds, sapphires, 
alexandrettes, aqua marines, amethysts — indeed all manner of stones, as well as 
ornaments skilfully worked in iron, all the products of the Urals. All these, alas! 
1 could only admire. At 7 p.m. we reached Ufa, which only a couple of weeks ago 
was redeemed from the Bolshevik yoke. At the large and handsome station the 
General was received by a very smart guard of honour, composed of some of the 
troops who drove the Bolsheviks from Ufa. The British train guard was relieved 
by the Russians who placed five sentries around it. These Russian sentries were 
exceptionally well trained. Captain Steveni told me that in October last he had 
seen them as the rawest of raw recruits and he marvelled at their efficiency. Ufa 
is a very large city, 150,000 to 200,000, and is, like Vladivostok, a city of a hundred 
hills. The railway line follows the course of the Ufa River which runs through 
the valley, the town far above it. It was at Ufa last summer that the Constituent 
Assembly of the new Russia met and organized the Omsk Government, now headed 
by Admiral Kolchak. On December 31st, the Russians were forced to abandon the 
city to the Bolshevik forces, who, however, were driven out again a few weeks ago 
during the brilliant offensive of General Khangin’s Western Army which is still in 
progress. We were advised not to leave the vicinity of the station after dark as 
there are many Bolsheviks still in hiding in the city and vicinity, though they are 
gradually being rounded up. ‘ 

April 5. — This morning I accompanied Major Cameron and Colonel Clarke on a 
visit to the city. The main part of the town is about 3 versts from the station and 
presents the usual appearance of a Russian city, except that the stores which, in 
Siberian towns, are generally fairly well stocked, are here absolutely empty, hav- 
ing been looted by the Bolsheviks. We first visited the office of the Commandant 
of the town, a very busy place, filled with great crowds of people who had papers 
to be vised, etc. However, a way was made for the “Angleski officers,” and we 
obtained from the Commandant certain information relative to an investigation 
of the Bolshevik outrages which it is desired to conduct. We then proceeded to 
the store of Alexieff Blokhin, corner of Central and Kazan Streets, to make in- 


quiries concerning the murder of his cousin, Demetri Blokhin. We found Alexieff 
Blokhin to be a man of 27, who had, formerly, served in the Russian Navy but left 
when the Bolsheviks assumed control. He then served with the Czechs for a while 
against the Bolsheviks, and later returned to Ufa. In December, when the capture 
of Ufa by the Reds was imminent, he left the city and succeeded in reaching Ir- 
kutsk where he remained until a few weeks ago when, hearing that the Kolchak 
forces had recaptured the city, he returned, to find that his cousin, Demetri, aged 
only 17, had been shot by the Bolsheviks. The boy was shot only two days before 
the Bolsheviks left the town. The boy’s mother searched for his body and finally 
discovered it in a ravine, with 28 other corpses, and had it brought to her home. 
The corpse was mutilated: there was a bullet wound in the forehead, the back of 
the head had evidently been cut off with a sword, there were two or three bullets 
in the chest and there were a number of bayonet wounds in the legs, thus proving 
torture before death. The other corpses in the ravine were also mutilated. It 
appears that the innocent boy, who had done nothing to annoy the Bolsheviks, was 
seized in the shop one morning and taken to the house Stepanov on Bekerski 
Street and there executed. There was no trial or other formality. The Bolsheviks 
could not maintain that there was a case of mistaken identity, because the boy 
Demetri could not possibly be taken for his cousin Alexieff, ten years older, who 
had served against them, and Demetri was known to have made a long explanation 
of Alexieff’s absence. Apparently, they wished to get Alexieff, and, finding that 
he was beyond their clutches, they decided they would at least have the delight of 
murdering some male member of his family. This story we obtained from Alexieff 
Blokhin, a serious and reserved man, and it was clear there was not the slightest 
exaggeration in his narrative. Indeed, the citizens of Ufa, dreading that the mis- 
chances of war might once again put their town in the hands of the Bolshevik, 
have a very natural reluctance to report these atrocities, because they know a ter- . 
rible vengeance would be taken should they again fall into the power of the Reds. 
An appointment was made to call on Madame Blokhin on Monday morning, and 
we then returned to the train. At 4 p.m. we left for the West, arriving at Chish- 
ma, the headquarters of the 2nd Ufa Army Corps, at 6.30 p.m. Chishma is only a 
railway station and the Staff H.Q. of the Corps was located in a box-car. The 
railway sidings were fqll of armoured trains and other material captured from the 
Bolsheviks a few days before. The Chief of Staff stated that 38 armoured trains 
had been so captured. There were, I suppose, 15 or 20 in Chishma yard, as well 
as some machine guns and old 1-pounders. The armoured trains were improvised 
trains, steel coal cars with the plates reinforced by sandbags, the exteriors painted 
white to harmonize with the snow. 

April 6. — We found that, owing to the Bolsheviks a day or two ago having at- 
tempted to blow up a bridge at Chermascanski, near the village Mikhailova, it 
would be impossible fOr the train to get through to the present firing line. How- 
ever, at 8 o’clock we pushed West and about noon reached the bridge which had 
not been very seriously damaged. A party of Russian engineers were busily at 
work and there was every indication that in 24 hours the railway would again be 
open. We advanced to the bridge on foot and inspected it. Some of the super- 
structure had been torn away and one of the massive stone pillars cracked. Evi- 
dently it had been damaged before and temporary wooden supports constructed. 
These had been burned and are now being replaced. Meanwhile, the Russian’s 
Western Army, under General Khangin, is some distance in front and the cutting 
of their line of communication is temporarily, but not seriously, embarrassing. A 
large pile of ammunition abandoned by the Bolsheviks was along the track, and 
it was interesting to discover that it was English and American ammunition sup- 
plied to the Russian Government before the Revolution, bearing dates 1915 and 
1916. This bridge was in an isolated part of the line, in the middle of an extensive 
and uninhabited plain and the snow was drifted high. There was an extremely 
keen wind and the day did not suggest the 6th of April. About 2, we left again 
for Chishma, and, after a stop there and the distribution of presents, proceeded 
to Ufa, which was reached at 9.30 p.m. Again General Knox had to inspect a 
guard of honour and again the Russians undertook to guard his train, relieving the 
English troops. Have I mentioned that the guard of the Middlesex Regiment 
which accompanied us from Vladivostok was changed at Omsk, and a guard of 
the Hampshires taken on? 

April 7. — This was an extremely interesting day. At 9 o’clock I accompanied 
Major Cameron and Captain Cazalet on a tour of the city to investigate further 
stories of atrocities. We first visited Madame Blokhin, the mother of Alexieff 


13 

Blokhin, and the aunt of the murdered boy, Demetri. Madame Blokhin had a flat 
in a large building on Kazan Street, and her home was very large and bore every 
evidence of having been handsomely, even luxuriously furnished. The large draw- 
ing room, however, was ^antily furnished because, as she explained, the Bolshev- 
iks had removed most of her furniture and personal effects. Her best diamond 
ring she had saved by keeping it in her mouth. As an instance of their methods 
of confiscation, she told of a cherished heirloom of her family, an ancient and 
valuable piece of china, which they insisted on taking, in spite of her entreaties. 
Finally, one of the daughters said that if they insisted on taking it, she would 
wrap it in paper in order that it might not be broken. Whereupon one of the 
Bolsheviks said, with a sneer, “What good is a thing like that to us?” and deliber- 
ately threw it on the floor and smashed it. One of the daughters is a dentist and, 
when a Bolshevik official insisted oiTher treating his teeth — free, of course — she 
managed, she said, to make him suffer a bit. Madame Blokhin confirmed the story 
of her son concerning Demetri Blokhin and mentioned various other cases. The 
mother of Demetri was prostrated after her terrible experience in finding her 
boy’s body, and Major Cameron did not feel that he could question her. 

We then visited the office of the Town Commandant, located in the premises of 
the Siberian Bank. This office was occupied by the Red Guard Provost Marshal 
during the Bolshevik occupation, and here many savage executions took place. 
First we were taken upstairs to a small room and shown two bullet holes in the 
wall. About a foot from these hples was a red patch to which particles were 
sticking. The occupants of the room told us that, when they moved in after the 
Bolsheviks had left, the remains of human brains were spattered over this wall, 
and these were some particles which could not be removed. We then visited the 
strong room or vault of the Bank which had been used by the Bolsheviks as a tor- 
ture chamber. The door-keeper (or as we would say, janitor) who had been at 
the place during the whole period of the Bolshevik occupation, stated that, even 
through the thick walls of the vault, the cries of the victims were constantly 
heard. He, himself on one occasion, saw the body of an officer with three nails 
driven right dovm through the stars on his shoulder straps. There were also bul- 
let marks on the walls on the vault. 

The next place visited was the place of execution. This was an alley in the 
courtyard between a wall and a wooden shed, and at the end of the alley many 
people were shot. There were a great many bullet holes in the brick wall at the 
end of the alley, and the old door-keepei: said that roughly about 600 people had 
been executed at this place. These executions, or rather murders, were always 
carried out at night and the Bolsheviks removed the bodies. 

We were then permitted to visit the prison, a privilege which, in Russia, in or- 
dinary times would, we were assured, have required two weeks’ negotiations. 
There are about 900 prisoners, most of them Red Guard prisoners taken in the 
recent fighting. The prison, taken as a whole, was surprisingly clean, but I should 
not care to be detained there. The first building we were taken to was for officers. 
Some of these had been fighting with the Bolsheviks, others of them were arrested 
on suspicion. They had either a single cell or shared a cell with one other. They 
were, it was apparent, permitted to keep their personal effects, watches, toilet 
articles, etc., and had beds with at least one blanket. As soon as the cry went 
down the corridor that the Governor of the prison and visitors had entered, every 
prisoner had to stand at attention in his cell. A few of these prisoners were 
questioned. Those who had been fighting with the Bolsheviks, of course, main- 
tained that they were loyal Russians and had been mobilized by the Reds against 
their will; the others protested their loyalty to the Government and asked to have 
their cases investigated. We then entered the big building in which the soldiers 
and criminals as well were confined. These were in big cells marked “12 men,” 
“20 men,” etc., but I noticed that there seemed always to be about double the num- 
ber of men for that accommodation. The beds were wooden planks let down from 
the wall, and I could not see any bedding. The building, however, was heated and 
most of the prisoners had warm army overcoats. ’The surprising feature about 
the Red Guard prisoners was their youth; scarcely one seemed over 20 and most 
of them were 16 and 17. The possibility is, of course, that the experienced troops 
got away and the youths surrendered. A few of these were questiond and, invar- 
iably, replied that they had been forced into the Bolshevik army and wanted to be 
released in order that they might serve with the Government forces. The possi- 
bility is that, in most cases, their story is correct and the suggestion has been 
made that, if they are not to be trusted with arms, they might be mobilized into 


14 

labour battalions for work behind the lines. There were two or three of them, 
however, who were men of over 30, and they all stated that they had served at the 
Front during the war against Germany. These made no profession of a desire to 
serve against the Red Guards. On the whole, the Russian prison, while not an 
enviable place in which* to live, was, as respects sanitary arrangements, etc., 
scarcely worse off than the usual Russian buildings. 

After lunch, I accompanied Major Cameron to the office of the Chief of Russian 
Counter Espionage, who took us to see first the house Stepanov on Beketovski 
Street (where, among others, the boy Demetri Blokhin was murdered) and then 
to the house at 85 Pushkinskaya Street where the Bolshevik Commission to Com- 
bat the Counter-Revolution, had their quarters. 

The house Stepanov was a very larg^ white house with spacious grounds. We 
were taken through the garden to what was, apparently, the cellar or basement of 
the conservatory. In the brick wall of this den were counted 14 bullet holes and 
there were very evident marks of blood on the wall and on the earth underneath. 
There was no floor in this cellar and the earth was in a filthy condition. The door- 
keeper told us that this place had not only been used for executions but also as a 
prison, and the prisoners were placed against the wall and shot in the presence of 
others. 

From here we went to the house Maiaeva, 85 Pushkinskaya Street, mentioned 
above, the third place of execution. In the wall of an upper room there were at 
least 20 shots. On the other side of this wall, which was ordinary lath and plaster, 
there was a cupboard and the door-keeper gave evidence that he had seen bodies 
in the cupboard and that they had been shot through the wall. Across the top of 
the cupboard was a horizontal bar which, it appeared, they had been tied to. On 
the floor of the first room there were traces of blood and also on the wall. It was 
said many executions had taken place in this upper room. We then went through 
the other rooms of the house which, apparently, had been a very handsome private 
residence. It was some distance back from the street and had a private drive-way. 
It is significant that both the house Stepanov and this house should have been sur- 
rounded with large grounds, thus preventing the scrutiny of people living in the 
vicinity. 

In several sheds there were marks of blood and bullet holes — in two cases 
through the windows and it was apparent the shots had been fired from outside. 
One of these buildings was the bath, which is attached to every Russian house, 
and the door-keeper stated that, in two instances, women, whose names he did not 
know, had been taken into this bath, outraged and subsequently shot. 

In one small shed, apparently the garage, which had a brick wall, we counted 
some 50 bullet holes, and marks of blood were very clear both on the wall and on 
the floor. 

A small room in the basement was then seen. This was in an indescribably 
filthy condition and it had been used as a prison. There was no possible way of 
heating this place (remember the Bolsheviks used it as a prison in the middle 
of a Russian winter) and there were some prisoners, including women, who were 
confined there for four and five weeks. There were two or three bullet marks 
through the ceiling of this chamber but none was noticed on the wall. However, 
it was so dark as to render inspection difficult. 

At this place a Russian staff officer gave Major Cameron a page from a book 
which had been found stuffed in the stove but only partially burned. This was a 
book which recorded the prisoners of the Bolsheviks at this house. The numbers 
were from 49 to 78. The names crossed out in red were those executed, and all 
but three are so marked. The dates of the execution are also- noted opposite each 
name. 

Some of the information collected during the day by verbal testimony follows. 
It may not be pleasant reading, but it will serve to indicate what manner of peo- 
ple the Bolsheviks are. 

A railway official, M. Chijevski, late station master at Ufa, stated that a nephew 
of his by marriage, Alexander Vasilevitch Strom, was attached to the Staff of the 
26th Bolshevik Division during the occupation of Ufa. His uncle asked him why 
he did not desert and offered to hide him when the Bolsheviks left Ufa. Strom 
said that he only prayed for the day when he might be taken prisoner but his 
mother had remained at Petrograd as a hostage in the hands of the Bolsheviks 
and she would be shot if they knew he had voluntarily deserted. M. Chijevski’s 


15 


house was searched three times and the Bolsheviks took away his library which 
he had been collecting for twenty years. 

The following story was given by three independent witnesses on separate oc- 
casions. At 11 p.m. on the 12th of March, the Bolsheviks arrested Elizabeta Yak- 
ovlevna Sharovkina, the widow of a lieutenant killed at the Front in 1915. She 
was arrested at the flat where she was living with her two children and taken to 
the Commandant’s office and shot in the yard. She was charged with “being op- 
posed to the Bolsheviks.” On the occupation of the city the next day, March 13, 
by the Government forces, her body was found with four others in the yard. The 
corpse was found in a kneeling position, head in the snow, and covered only by a 
soldier’s greatcoat. The body had been desecrated in a disgusting fashion. In a 
shed near by were found many other corpses. 

A railwayman named Selisnov for some remark not in sympathy with Bolshev- 
iks was conflned in an underground cellar in complete darkness for 14 days. 

The Archbishop of Ufa stated that early in March of this year in the village of 
Urgush, near Birsk, 48 Mussulmans were lined up and shot with machine guns for 
refusing to join the Red Army. 

Praporschik Videnski of the armoured train “Tagil” was killed by a shell near 
Shingakul Station on April 1, 1919. After recovery of his body which fell from 
the train it was found that the stomach had been ripped up. Red Guards captured 
in the vicinity admitted doing this but made excuse for their action by saying that 
they wished to know what food the Government’s officers ate. 

Smirnov, Engine Driver Instructor at Ufa Railway Shops and Warden of the 
Railway Church, stated that on February 26th Ipolit Vasilievitch Vasiliev, previ- 
ously foreman in the railway shops, was shot in the yard behind the Command- 
ant’s office. He was permitted to take away the body and, when recovering it, 
saw many other corpses of victims. 

On March 11 or 12, just before the evacuation, Galkin, President of the Local 
Extraordinary Committee, got 500 workmen from workshops to join the Red Army 
by offering each 1,000 roubles, two months’ salary for each family, one bottle 
vodka, two pounds of sugar and tobacco. Those who joined were the worst men 
in the shops and have since been annihilated west of Chishma. Many other good 
vvorkmen were, at the last minute, forced by the Reds to accompany them, but 
these are now returning in driblets. 

Peasants in the villages were very hostile to the Bolsheviks, and only with great 
difficulty could the Reds get them to bring flour into the city. Thus the price of 
flour has now dropped to 27 R. per pood, whereas under the Bolsheviks it was 
100 R. per pood. To induce the peasants to bring in flour, the Bolsheviks agreed 
to pay them 20 R. per pood for quantities requisitioned up to 100 poods, and 30 R. 
for quantities between 100 and 300 poods. For quantities of 1,000 poods the price 
v.as to be 40 R. per pood. Consequently, the peasants of a village would give 
their flour to one man and appointed him to sell on their behalf at 40 R. In such 
cases, the Bolsheviks paid the man and a few days later invariably demanded from 
him a contribution of sometimes up to 15,000 R. 

The mobilization which has been announced by the Government armies in re- 
occupied territories is proving a success and large numbers of former N.C.O.s who 
kept away from joining the Government armies last autumn are now reporting 
themselves. They have experienced Bolshevik rule in the meantime. 

Ekaterina Egorevna Piskenova stated that her son, aged 18, still going to school, 
was arrested on 31st December, 1918, and detained for five days. He was then 
released only to be again arrested and taken to 85 Pushkinskaya Street under 
charge of being an agent of the Government at Omsk. Demetri Antipovich, aged 
G8, father of the boy, was also arrested and confined with son till January 10, 
when the boy was separated from the father and taken away. The father was 
released next day, but the boy was shot, which fact was only ascertained some 
time later. The evidence of the mother shows that the above charge was brought 
against the boy by Communists who quartered themselves in her house and had a 
disagreement with the boy over lodgings. The mother states that although the 
house was searched on several occasions each of these searches revealed nothing. 

Ivan Fleightovich Kozlov, owner of the house, 96 Ufimski Street, states that 
Anna Ivanovna Ziryapova, aged 44, resided there with her husband and a servant 
as lodgers. Five days before the occupation of Ufa, her husband went to Omsk, 
and Madame Ziryapova remained alone. A few days after the Bolsheviks seized 


16 


the town, the flat occupied by Madame Ziryapova was searched as the Reds had 
heard that she had many friends who were Czech officers. Searches were made 
daily until finally Madame Ziryapova was taken away under escort, destination 
not being stated, but it was subsequently ascertained she was taken to 85 Push- 
kinskaya Street. Six days after her arrest Kozlov ascertained that Madame Zirya- 
pova had been shot, without any trial or other formality. No details could be 
obtained. Madame Ziryapova left three children. After her execution, the Bol- 
sheviks sent ten Red Guards to her flat who took away all her furniture, linen 
and other belongings. When the linen was being removed, a large crowd of 
women, apparently wives and relations of the Red Guards, collected and each one 
strove to get some of the linen for herself. The flat was then occupied by a Bol- 
shevik Commissar who removed the ikons from the walls and threw them in the 
latrine where they were found afterwards by Kozlov. Michaelovitch Ageev, an- 
other lodger in the same house, confirmed the above and added that when the flat 
of Madame Ziryapova was searched the first time the Bolsheviks took away all 
her rings, her watch and 6,000 roubles. 

Evidence in documentary form is submitted concerning the treatment of a tailor 
named Leesitski who was arrested for having sewn uniforms for officers of Kol- 
chak’s army. He was declared “an enemy of the people and a counter-revolution- 
ist” because the Bolsheviks stated they had discovered that he worked 16 and 17 
hours a day instead of 8. This tailor describes the horrors of the Bolshevik prison 
and begs that the world might know that in his opinion Bolshevism means de- 
struction to the working man. 

Another document submitted is the story of an invalided soldier of the late war 
who was arrested at Bugulma by Bolsheviks on the 12th of November and was 
placed in, prison with three priests. He and the priests were condemned to death 
and were being led to the cemetery where they were to be shot when he managed 
to effect his escape. 

Here is the substance of a statement by a peasant woman, Baskakova, concern- 
ing the actions of the Bolsheviks in the town of Elabuga. On February 13, 1918, 
during search of her house by Red Guards, her little daughter, five years of age, 
was thrown from her bed, in order that they might search for arms supposed 
to be hidden under it. Her husband was arrested, and also a priest named Derlov, 
together with his three sons, aged 21, 19 and 17. The priest was arrested because, 
in January, 1918, when the Bolsheviks were looting churches, he' had declared in 
a sermon that he would not allow desecration of the “Holy of Holies” and that this 
w ould only be entered over his body. The priest was shot soon after arrest and his 
v/ife, when she came to make inquiries concerning his body, was told that he had 
been taken to Kazan. She later ascertained that the corpse had been thrown into 
the river. The priest’s three sons were shot one afternoon at 3 o’clock in the 
presence of a large number of citizens of Elabuga. Baskakova’s husband was 
given a trial and later allowed to go. When she attended the trial, she was jeered 
and insulted by the Bolsheviks. Two merchants of this town were also shot. One 
of them was Gerbazov. He was first placed under arrest. Each evening he was 
brought up and threatened with immediate death unless a contribution was forth- 
coming. Finally he agreed to pay all he could, which was 2,700 roubles. The 
Bolsheviks demanded 50,000 roubles, and, after releasing him, arrested him again 
the next day and eventually shot him. He left his wife and four children penniless. 

Alexander Apollonovitch Fischer, who lives in a village near Ufa, presented a 
detailed statement of tne value of goods destroyed by the Red Guard on 31st De- 
cember, 1918. He estimated his total loss at 32,400 roubles and stated that, after 
the destruction of his property, a paper was given him by the Bolshevik Commis- 
sar to the effect that his house and property were guaranteed against pillage and 
destruction. 

Vladimir Abramovitch Safronovitch, telegraph operator, states that on Febru- 
ary 1st, 1919, his wife, Elena Osepovna Safronovitch, left Ufa to stay with her 
sisters, Anna Osepovna Fadeeva and Theodosia Chisjevskaia, who lived in a flour 
mill situated on the river 50 versts from Ufa. On the night of February 3rd, his 
wife and her sisters heard a great noise and the breaking of glass. They made 
an effort to escape through the back door but found it barred. A number of 
robbers demanded entry stating they were Red Guards and required all the money 
there was in the house. The money was handed over to them but the amount was 
found insufficient by the Red Guards who shot and killed the elder sister, Anna 
Osepovna Fadeeva. The statement continues: “My poor wife was then asked 
where the money was. She stated that, as she had only just arrived and was a 


17 


stranger in the house, she did not know, but offered them her 3,000 roubles, a sum 
which she and I, with the greatest difficulty, had saved during my 38 years’ ser- 
vice as a telegraph operator in the Post Office. For producing this money she was 
immediately dubbed a ‘‘bourgeoise” and money was confiscated, of course. In 
spite of her entreaties and her statement that she had a son who was a prisoner 
of war in Germany whom she had not seen for more than three years, my poor wife 
was killed by a rifle shot. The other sister, Theodosia, and the miller, their em- 
ployee, were also shot. The Red Guard then placed all the movable property in 
the house on sleighs, and set fire to the place. Sophia Lapona and a little girl of 
9, the daughter of my wife’s nephew, who had witnessed these murders, only just 
managed to escape from the flames and to reach the village near by.” Safrono- 
vitch concludes with an appeal that “the murderous deeds of the Red Guards 
should be known in the civilized countries of our Allies who, in the name of hu- 
manity, would surely not stand for such treatment toward defenceless women, in 
which case their lives will not have been lost in vain.” 

The manager of the Peasants’ Bank in Mensilinsk, M. Avaseilov, states that, in 
August, 1918, after the evacuation of the town by the Russian army, the town was 
occupied by Red Guards. Immediately after their occupation a student, aged 18, 
was arrested. He was led several times through the streets of the town amid the 
hoots and jeers of Bolsheviks and their sympathizers and was then taken to the 
courtyard of the convent situated just outside the town, where he was shot. 

In this very same courtyard, the Mother Superior of the Convent was shot. She 
was seized while in prayer in the church adjoining the convent. A lawyer named 
S. M. Doktorov was also shot in this courtyard. There was also the case of a 
whole family named Zaharov being shot here, and also a family named Lupovick, 
consisting of father, mother and daughter. During the month of August, in this 
town, the total population of which is only 8,000, upwards of 100 persons were 
shot, for no just reason. For instance, the daughter of a butcher named Feodorov 
was shot only because she had given a bouquet of flowers to an officer who had 
previously entered the town with a Partisan (Russian Government) detachment. 
Her act was reported to the Bolsheviks after they occupied the town. 

Sofia losipovna Saraisinskaia states that on the night of March 11 last, four 
armed men entered the flat of her mother, Basi Abadovskaia, at 53 Vavilovskaia 
Street and arrested her mother. Next day the daughter went to inquire of the 
Commandant the whereabouts of her mother but could get no satisfactioni After 
a two days’ search the daughter found her mother’s body with those of other vic- 
tims left at the shed in the rear of the Siberian Bank upon the departure of the 
Bolsheviks. On the night of March 12, immediately before the evacuation, two 
armed men entered the daughter’s home, 70 Vavilovskaia, and, threatening the 
servant, the only person in the house, with a pointed rifle, collected everything of 
value in the place from top coats to bed linen and took it away on two sleighs. 
The value of the stolen articles is from 16,000 to 18,000 roubles. 

L. I. Shanvarski, member of the Polish Legion, who remained at Ufa during the 
occupation, states he was arrested on four occasions by the Extraordinary Com- 
mittee to Combat the Counter-Revolution. He was finally condemned to death 
but his life was saved by the timely coming of the Russian troops. After de- 
scribing various Bolshevik atrocities, Shanvarski, who submits a written state- 
ment, draws the following conclusions: (1) They are a band of ignorant people 
with a huge percentage of thieves, criminals and convicts. (2) The Bolsheviks are 
employed by the Jews whose sole ambition is to destroy the Intelligentsia, which 
is the brain of the nation, to destroy a sense of patriotism and religion among the 
Russians. (3) Bolshevism means the destruction and immediate break-up of civi- 
lization, of a people and of a nation. 

It should be remembered that these cases are only the ones which were brought 
under notice in ONE day. The Commandant of the town inserted a notice in the 
paper on Saturday night that all cases should be reported to him. As we left on 
Monday night, the above really represent only those reported on Monday morning. 
Not only was there a very limited time to compile the records, but there is a natu- 
ral reluctance on the part of the citizens who have suffered losses to report them, 
lest they should bring disaster to other members of the family residing in districts 
held by the Bolsheviks. Some are also fearful lest the Reds may again take the 
city, when they would certainly take a dreadful revenge on all who have exposed 
their behaviour. 


18 

There are disgusting features connected with some of these cases which cannot 
be written down. 

When I reviewed the day, I could not but think of certain Socialist and even 
some more solid Labour papers in America and Canada who are constantly as- 
serting that the “capitalistic” newspapers of the outside world do not give “the 
truth” regarding the Bolshevik rule in Russia. It is very fortunate for these 
gentry, but perhaps unfortunate for the rest of the population, that the news- 
papers have not given us the truth. It is practically impossible, under present 
conditions, for newspaper correspondents to find means of travel in Russia or to 
use the telegraphs, but the facts mentioned above have been telegraphed to Lon- 
don and some of them, if not all, will likely be given to the Press. 

April 8. — All morning we have been passing through the Ural district, and it 
was 4 p.m. before we reached Chelyabinsk. After dinner I took a short walk 
through that section of the city which is near the station, but the main business 
portion is the inevitable three versts distant. Chelyabinsk has been the head- 
quarters of the Czechs and there are some American Y.M.C.A. and Red Cross 
activities here. Typhus has been very prevalent. Here we saw the Inter-allied 
Typhus Train, organized at Vladivostok in January, financially supported by ALL 
the Allies, commanded by Capt. Dallyn of the Canadian forces (who, by the way, 
v/as asked to take it over after the American Medical or Sanitary experts had 
fallen down), though most of the personnel are Americans. Somewhat to our 
indignation, the cars are all labelled in small letters “iPter-allied Typhus Train,” 
while in much larger letters appear the words “OF THE AMERICAN RED 
CROSS.” More will be heard of this which, unfortunately, is but typical of much 
of the work of our good friends south of the 49th parallel. Capt. Dallyn has him- 
self become ill with typhus and the train was going back to Omsk. 

April 9. — Early this morning the train was run out to a wayside station to per- 
mit the General to inspect some troops in training in villages. As there was no 
village adjoining the station, I contented myself with working steadily on the 
train. We left for Chelyabinsk at 6 p.m. and at 10 p.m. left for Ekaterinburg. 

April 10. — At 7.15 a.m. we reached Ekaterinburg, one of the most important 
cities in this section of Russia. Before the war there were many English and 
Germans in Ekaterinburg, and it is a clean and progressive city. There are large 
manufacturing plants, and it is the centre of the trade in precious stones. After 
lunch, I proceeded to visit the city. Naturally the first place which I searched out 
was the white house opposite the Square in which the late Czar and his family 
were confined and where they met their end. It is quite a large house, built on 
the side of a hill which slopes down from the big square, thus the rear of the 
house has one more storey than the front, for the front faces the square. The 
house is situated on the corner of a street and at the side of the street is one of 
the little wayside shrines so common in Russia. At the rear of the house is a 
garden surrounded by a high board fence, and here the late Czar was permitted 
to take whatever exercise he had. I am told that, while he was there, the whole 
premises were surrounded by a very high board paling which prevented the occu- 
pants from seeing anything but the sky and likewise prevented any outsider look- 
ing in. The building is now occupied by the Russian Artillery Brigade H.Q. and 
we were permitted inside. The actual room, however, occupied by the Czar and 
his family and the room in the basement where the tragedy is supposed to have 
occurred were, however, closed and sealed by the Czechs when they took posses- 
sion after driving the Bolsheviks from Ekaterinburg. It has now been ascertained 
that, knowing the Czechs were about to capture Ekaterinburg, the local Bolshevik 
leaders determined to put the Czar and his family to death while they were in 
their power, and it is said that, immediately following the meeting at which this 
decision was taken, the local Bolshevik leader led in a squad of Red Guards who 
compelled the Czar, the Czarina, the Czarevitch and the daughters, the Grand 
Duchesses, to go into the basement, where they were shot one by one, the Czar 
being shot last, having witnessed the murder of his whole family. Their personal 
attendants, doctor. Czarina’s lady in waiting, etc., were also shot. The bodies 
were then taken to a mine-shaft outside Ekaterinburg and there burned. When 
General Knox was last here in November he was accompanied by Colonel Rod- 
zianko, now with the British Mission, but formerly an official of the Court. At 
that time it was not known that the bodies had been burned, and for days he had 
the graves of Bolshevik victims opened, in order that he might ascertain where 
the remains of the Czar and his family were. Time after time the remains when 


Id 

dug up proved to be those of some old friend or companion of his, hut, of course, 
the corpses of the Imperial Family were not found. The Bolsheviks were, evi- 
dently, more merciful to the dog than to the family, as the dog was not shot and 
is now in the care of Colonel Rodzianko at Vladivostok. As I looked at the some- 
what tawdry building in which the last Emperor of the Romanovs met so tragic 
a fate, I could not but pity the man, weak and erring though he may have been 
but surely more sinned against than sinning, born to the splendours of a throne 
Avhich governed one hundred and eighty million souls, who, at last, vainly begged 
for life at the hands of the most degraded of his former subjects. Knowing the 
methods of the Red Guards practised at Ufa, one can imagine t.he life led by the 
four daughters of the Czar prior to the murders. After visiting this house, we 
proceeded to the main street, purchased post-card photographs of Admiral Kol- 
chak and General Gaida at five roubles (50 cents) each and vainly sought to pur- 
chase photographs of the Czar’s house. Meeting the train interpreter, we were 
taken into a marvellous shop filled with almost priceless jewels. The shop was lo- 
cated in the proprietor’s house, and could not be found by a stranger, as there was 
nothing to indicate that it was a mercantile establishment. The proprietor also 
maintains a factory in the rear where the cutting of the stones is done. Beyond 
taking their gold and leaving paper money in exchange, these people seem to have 
been undisturbed by the Bolsheviks. The probability is they paid some of the 
leaders a good sum of money for immunity. Of course they did not venture to, 
carry on business. Here I made one or two trifling purchases, and we then walked 
back to the train. The snow is melting and walking was very bad, so T did not go 
out in the evening. 

April 11. — I was kept busily occupied in the train practically all day and, there- 
fore, have nothing to report. I assisted in compiling a 3,000 word telegram re- 
porting the Ufa atrocities and spent the afternoon getting it in shape for trans- 
mission. General Gaida is at the Front and not in Ekaterinburg, so we leave 
to-night for the West, ultimate destination Perm, though we are to take in some 
places on the way. 

April 12. — We left Ekaterinburg at 6 a.m. and about 9 stopped at Tavatui, 
where we remained until about 4 in the afternoon. We are not taking the direct 
route to Perm, but going north through a great industrial district where there are 
many factories. The General spent the morning inspecting these factories with 
the view of urging that better use be made of them to supply the necessities of the 
Army in the way of transport wagons and other equipment. One might think 
that, having the Bolshevik occupation in their recollections, the manufacturers 
would be eager to assist in every way the Government in its attempt to put Bol- 
shevism down, but many of them seem to be more eager to speculate in copper 
and iron and other raw materials, for which fabulous prices are being paid, than 
to use the materials in the manufacture of equipment for the Army. The plants 
are immense in size and manifold in their operations, but chiefly turn out products 
connected with iron and copper. In the evening the train was moved some versts 
farther north, to the large town of Nijni Tagil, and here we are to stay until 
to-morrow. 

April 13. — As we were not scheduled to leave Nijni Tagil until 10 o’clock. Major 
Cameron asked me if I would care to accompany a party of officers attending Palm 
Sunday service in the very large church at Nijni Tagil. Accordingly we set off 
about 9, and were in time to witness a part of the celebration of Mass. The church 
is quite modern — 1892 — and is lavishly decorated, though in better taste than most 
of the Siberian churches. The walls were filled with paintings, some of them ob- 
viously copies of Roman Catholic pictures. No palms were in evidence, nor ever- 
greens, though the hills surrounding the town were covered with them, but imita- 
tion flowers were being sold on the church steps. The steps, by the way, were 
packed with beggars, both men and women. A few stations north of Nijni Tagil, 
a branch line runs off to the north and it was this line we took, going to a little 
village called Lala, where are located the immense Nicoli Pavidinski Works. This 
is a huge plant, but is only running to a third or less of its capacity though even 
now it has 5,000 hands. The entire village, which was created in 1913, is owned 
by the Company. The houses are all built on a standard design accommodating 
four families each, and a superficial verdict would be that it was a happy indus- 
trial community. I understand, however, that there is a great shortage of bread 
and that Bolshevism has hampered the Works by continued labour troubles. At 
10 p.m. we left for the South. 


26 

April 14. — All day we have been travelling through the Urals, every now and 
then getting a fleeting glimpse of some beautiful panorama of mountain, valley 
and river. The mountains are all thickly wooded with evergreens. Did I mention 
our passing yesterday Mt. Blaogdat, which is composed of solid iron and copper 
ore, hence its name, “Blaogdat,” which means “the gift of God”? Late in the 
afternoon, we left the main railway line and travelled about 60 versts north on 
another branch to a little factory town similar to Lala. Here large glass-works 
are located. Many of the workmen are German or Austrian prisoners of war. 
Indeed, what cannot but impress the casual observer is the fact that, apparently, 
everyone works but the Russian men. It is women who do all the rough work 
about the railway yards, carry coal and wood, clean coaches, clear the tracks of 
snow, and, indeed, so far as I can see, even the maintenance-of-way “men” are 
women. This is less true in Siberia than in European Russia, and possibly can be 
explained, in part, by so many of the men having been called to the colours. 
Nevertheless, I have yet to see an important station where three or four hundred 
men in civilian clothes were not lounging about the platform. I have not, in this 
diary letter, mentioned the “refugees.” They are to be seen at almost every sta- 
tion, sitting on bundles of household goods, apparently quite content or resigned 
(I do not know which) to sit for hours without shifting position. All ordinary 
travel, except the express to Vladivostok from Omsk semi-weekly, is done in box- 
cars, fitted up with stoves, and holes cut in the sides for ventilation. The passen- 
ger coaches are all either used for military purposes or as dwellings by railway 
and government officials, or have been destroyed or taken away by the Bolsheviks. 
It is expected that Perm will be reached to-morrow morning. 

April 15. — At 6 o’clock we arrived in the important city of Perm, around which 
took place in December last that tremendous battle which ended in the utter rout 
of the Bolsheviks. The Reds left 30,000 prisoners and enormous booty, including 
300 railway engines, in the hands of the Siberian Army. Our train was brought 
to the “down town” station of Perm, for there are at least three huge railway 
stations, all of them in excellent condition. The whole station building was decor- 
ated with evergreens following Palm Sunday. I took a very short walk in the 
morning, and 1 o’clock our train was transferred to another point in the railway 
yards in order that General Knox might inspect a factory in which guns are being 
manufactured. There were several hospital trains in the yard and many hundreds 
of wounded Russians. They did not appear to be exceptionally well cared for, but 
probably the best is done under the conditions which prevail. At 3 o’clock we left 
for the West to visit the Headquarters of the Central Siberian Corps, under 
Lieutenant-General Popelyaev and reached the railway station where he was lo- 
cated at 7.30. The H.Q. are some score versts behind the Front, so we were not 
under fire. General Knox inspected a remarkably fine guard of honour, who in 
bearing, training and equipment were a pleasant contrast to the usual Russian 
troops such as we see behind the lines. The evening was spent by the Generals in 
conference and at midnight we left again for Perm, somewhat to our disappoint- 
ment, as we hoped to get right up to the front. Colonel Clarke has been ailing 
for some days and it was decided that he had best be taken back to some place 
where he could have attention by an English-speaking doctor. His illness will 
probably hasten our return to Omsk. 

April 16. — It was decided that we should leave Perm at 11.30 a.m. and Major 
Cameron suggested that perhaps I would like to take a walk for a few hours in 
order to see the city. I did not fail to act on his suggestion. Perm, in normal 
times, must be a very neat, attractive city. There are many splendid buildings 
and they are not, as in Siberia, huddled up with wretched hovels. The shops have 
little in them, but the Bolsheviks who were hurried away did not have time to 
make the Usual thorough job of their looting operations. Prices are extremely 
high and the caterers on the train are very eager for' our return, even to Omsk. 
With meat at the equivalent of 80 cents a pound, bread 50 cents a pound, they 
cannot make much profit. Such shops as there were had special Easter displays 
of toys, ornaments, novelties, etc., as well as liberal quantities of bread covered 
with a special chocolate icing with various designs. Adjoining the main street, 
Siberski Prospect, there were two huge schools, or academies, a very fine city hall 
and numerous churches and government buildings. In one of the churches there 
was a military church parade and a battalion of soldiers were receiving holy com- 
munion preparatory to Good Friday. A great many troops were drilling in the 
various squares and open spaces. The streets are very dirty, but that could only 


21 


be expected at this time of year as the snow is very deep and, melting, carries 
away all manner of refuse. I passed the Marinski Gymnasia (High School), con- 
verted into an immense military hospital filled with wounded. On returning to 
the train, I found that it had been decided, in cdnsequence of Colonel Clarke’s 
condition, to press on right through to Omsk. Consequently we expect to be in 
Ekaterinburg to-night and will not likely stay long there. We are travelling from 
Perm to Ekaterinburg over the short line. The country is less mountainous than 
the longer route and has been the scene of a great series of actions between the 
Bolsheviks and the Czechs and Russians. The only important town between the 
two cities is Kungar, a straggling and very dirty place of, I should judge, about 
20,000 population. Just east of Kungar we came upon a plain which was, appar- 
ently, one of the battlefields, as the trenches could be plainly seen as well as sev- 
eral miles of barbed wire entanglements still standing and unbroken. A few 
hundred yards east a mighty railway bridge had been blown up, and we crossed 
on a temporary wooden structure. The massive stone pillars of the bridge had 
been smashed and the iron-work could be seen in the water below. Have I men- 
tioned the great river Kama at Perm ? The city is very picturesquely situated on 
a great cliff rising from the water’s edge. Just west of the city there is a very 
large bridge which we crossed yesterday. It is evident that the Bolshevik retreat 
from the city was not “a retirement according to plan to prepared positions” else 
they would not have failed to destroy this huge bridge, which is at least 700 yards 
long, having seven spans. All through the Urals we have seen traces of Bolshevik 
work, a factory burned in one town, the railway station in another, the locomotive 
shops in another. Many atrocities were perpetrated in the Perm district but we 
did not have time to make investigations as at Ufa, and, anyway, by this time, 
the trail is cold. Supplies were so scarce during the Bolshevik occupation that, 
were a man seen on the street smoking a good cigarette, his home was immediately 
searched by the Red Guard in order that his hidden hoard might be discovered and 
confiscated. At Perm we were only 900 versts (about 600 miles) from Petrograd 
and less than 450 miles to Moscow. It is hoped that before the winter of 1919 the 
Kolchak armies may have taken Moscow and that means the end of Bolshevism. 

April 17. — We reached Ekaterinburg this morning and. Colonel Clarke being 
somewhat improved, it is determined to stay two days. To-day General Gaida 
was at lunch and was presented by General Knox, in behalf of the King, with the 
C.B. Surely there cannot in the war be a stranger experience than that of Gaida, 
a private soldier in the Austrian Army, then a volunteer in the Czech detachment 
of the Russian Army after having been taken a willing prisoner, later the leader 
of the Czechs in their retreat to Vladivostok to embark for France, then the leader 
in their right about face and the conqueror of Siberia, following that his resigna- 
tion from the Czech forces and his acceptance of the post from Admiral Kolchak 
of Commander of the Siberian Army. And he is now 28 years of age. This even- 
ing I accompanied a Russian to the city, and, after the inevitable cakes and coffee, 
and our discovery that everything was closed, it being the eve of Good Friday, he 
suggested our going to the Cathedral. The immense church was thronged with 
worshippers, each of whom bought a candle or taper which he lit at the ikon of 
some saint and proceeded to carry home with him. It was a peculiar sight to see 
the streets, otherwise dimly lighted, filled with people carrying candles and finding 
their steps through the mud by the aid of its feeble light. 

April 18. — All day at Ekaterinburg. Beyond a walk past the “Czar’s house” I 
stayed at the train all day. At 10 o’clock we left for Omsk, going, not by way of 
Cheliabinsk, but over the direct northern route through Tiumen and Ishim. 

April 19. — Again in Siberia! Very little of interest. Reached Tiumen at 10 a.m. 
and left at 4.30 p.m. Spring has come in Siberia as in Russia with a rush, and 
the fields are bare. We are due at Omsk at 10.30 to-morrow morning, and I must 
try to get these jottings off by the express post which leaves a few hours after 
our arrival. 







