
STOP 



Early Journal Content on JSTOR, Free to Anyone in the World 

This article is one of nearly 500,000 scholarly works digitized and made freely available to everyone in 
the world by JSTOR. 

Known as the Early Journal Content, this set of works include research articles, news, letters, and other 
writings published in more than 200 of the oldest leading academic journals. The works date from the 
mid-seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries. 

We encourage people to read and share the Early Journal Content openly and to tell others that this 
resource exists. People may post this content online or redistribute in any way for non-commercial 
purposes. 

Read more about Early Journal Content at http://about.jstor.org/participate-jstor/individuals/early- 
journal-content . 



JSTOR is a digital library of academic journals, books, and primary source objects. JSTOR helps people 
discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content through a powerful research and teaching 
platform, and preserves this content for future generations. JSTOR is part of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit 
organization that also includes Ithaka S+R and Portico. For more information about JSTOR, please 
contact support@jstor.org. 



126 The Deep Sea 

small Globigerina shells from any ridges. Still, there may be other 
explanations of the facts. 

Mixed up with these stones is a remarkably large number of 
cinders from steamers. If steamers using coal should some day be 
superseded by vessels using some other kind of fuel, then the de- 
posits in the North Atlantic would have a layer which might be 
called the coal-fuel layer. On the other hand, if the coal-cinders 
and these glaciated rock-fragments are now lying together on the 
floor of the ocean, geologists may in the remote future find proofs 
in these layers that man and steamers existed in the glacial period. 

I have referred to only a few of the results and observations 
taken during this four months' cruise. When published in detail 
these will form a substantial addition to knowledge, and it is in my 
opinion almost certain that they will lead to other and more exten- 
sive explorations of the same nature in the immediate future. 



MACQUARIE ISLAND AND ITS ROBINSON 

CRUSOE 

The chief results of the voyage of Capt. J. K. Davis, on the Nim- 
rod (May-July, 1909), under instructions from Lieut. Shackleton 
to try to locate certain islands in the South Pacific, shown on the 
charts, were reported in the Bulletin (Nov. 1910, p. 852). His full 
report on this voyage appears in the Geographical Journal, (Vol. 36, 
pp. 696-703). From this account is reproduced here Capt. Davis's 
description of Macquarie Island, and the solitary white inhabitant 
he found there. He says : 

"About 545 miles from the southern extremity of New Zealand 
lies Macquarie Island. Capt. Hasselborough, of the brig Persever- 
ance, landed there in 1809, but as he saw the remains of a wreck on 
the coast, it may have been visited by some navigator at an earlier 
date. Lying as it does in a north-east and south-west direction for 
a length of over 20 miles, it forms a huge breakwater exposed to 
the full force of the prevailing westerly winds. It is a mountain 
ridge rising from a considerable depth. We found a depth of 300 
fathoms about half a mile from the eastern shore, shoaling rapidly as 
we approached the land to 40, 10, 8 fathoms. The southeast side is, 
for some miles, a precipitous cliff about 200 feet high, broken here 
and there by watercourses coming down from the plateau behind. 



Macquarie Island and Its Robinson Crusoe 127 

The plateau has an average height of about 500 feet at the southern 
end of the island, but there is one peak rising to a height of at least 
1,800 feet. From our anchorage in Lusitania Bay, we could see the 
slopes (covered with green coarse grass) rising abruptly from the 
line of surf, and we could hear the squeaking of the king penguins 
and the grunting of the sea-elephants. The latter spend much of 
their time asleep in the long grass close to the water. 

"We lowered a boat, and, after some adventures in the surf, a 
landing was effected. There we found the remains of two huts — 
both in a wretched condition, dating back to the days of the sealers ; 
but now all was deserted and desolate. The low ground was swampy 
and covered with long coarse grass. The patches of swamp were 
filled with dense masses of vegetation, like bog mosses, but which, 
as I have been informed, may be dwarfed flowering plants. Two 
small microscopic animals have been found in this "moss" — these 
are known as "Water-bears" (tardigrada) , their feet resembling 
those of bears. It is a curious fact that one of these is known in 
South Africa, North Island in New Zealand, and in Fifi — all warm 
climates. 

"Not far from the huts were numbers of sea-elephants — huge un- 
wieldy creatures, some 25 feet long; the larger ones appear formid- 
able but they are not dangerous. The penguin rookery was on a 
small eminence. A number of young birds, about three weeks old, 
were huddled together, while the parents formed a circular line of 
defence and vigorously opposed any attempt on our part to approach 
the line too closely. We spent some time collecting specimens, which 
were brought safely on board. The following day we steamed along 
the coast to the northward, and at 3 p. m. we were approaching Nug- 
get Point — a curious reef of pinnacle rocks, from which observa- 
tions for latitude and longitude (with sextant and artificial horizon) 
have been taken by Captain Blackburn for the New Zealand Gov- 
ernment. 

"When fairly close to the shore, we could make out two huts, and 
we could see the figure of a man standing at the door of the smaller 
one. We anchored close to the shore, and a boat was lowered amid 
great excitement. There was a big surf, but our friend, after point- 
ing to the best landing-place, walked into the water and assisted in 
beaching the boat. We learned that this solitary stranger had spent 
three months alone on the island. He had arrived as an oilman on 
board a small schooner which visits the place once a year to collect 
sea-elephant oil. On the last occasion, when the ship was ready to 
sail, MacKibben announced his intention of spending the winter on 



128 Macquarie Island and Its Robinson Crusoe 

the island. He was deaf to all persuasion, and so stores had been 
landed for his use, and the ship returned to New Zealand. He was 
an Irishman, fifty-one years of age, and had spent over twenty years 
in the navy. He had been to the Arctic ocean on the paddle frigate 
Valorous — a relief vessel. He was a very quaint character and 
seemed thoroughly to enjoy life on this wind-swept island. His hut 
of two rooms was warm and cosy; each room had a stove, the coal 
for which he had to carry from the depot — a distance of 4 miles. 
He had plenty of ordinary ship's stores, and, for fresh meat he used 
the hearts and tongues of the sea-elephants. The next day we went 
up to the northern anchorage, about 5 miles from Nugget Point. 
This is the best landing-place round the coast. We were soon on 
shore on a narrow strip of land which joins the mainland to a flat 
square-topped hill, beyond which a reef of rocks extends for some 
distance north. Here we obtained some skeletons of the sea-ele- 
phant which we brought on board. The following day, May 30, we 
were to continue our voyage at 8 a. m. I had suggested to Mac- 
Kibben on the previous night that he should return to civilization 
with us — a proposal he replied to as follows : 

" 'Why should I ? I'm happy enough here, and have all I want. 
I'm glad to have seen you, but I don't want to leave the island.' 
As we steamed away we dipped our flag to the old man, who waved 
farewell to us from the beach. 

"The history of Macquarie Island and of its former occupation 
by sealing gangs is given at some length in a book called 'Murihiku,' 
by M'Nab, formerly Minister of Lands in New Zealand. The Maori 
name signifies the last joint of the tail, and is applied to the extreme 
southern part of the South Island, New Zealand. The first 'sealing 
fleet' to Macquarie consisted of six vessels. The first vessel sailed 
from Sydney Sept. 19, 1810 ; this vessel was followed by a second on 
October 3, and so on. Returning to Sydney in the following year, 
these vessels brought skins and oil in abundance ; one vessel landed 
a cargo of not less than 35,000 skins. The masters of these vessels 
brought back reports of terrible weather met with off the coasts of 
Macquarie and Campbell islands. It was no easy matter to keep 
the shore gangs supplied with food and other necessaries. A tale 
of storm and sea near this island is related about the brig Concord 
sent from Sydney with supplies for the sealing gangs on the Mac- 
quarie." ('Murihiku,' p. 180.) 



