
STOP 



Early Journal Content on JSTOR, Free to Anyone in the World 

This article is one of nearly 500,000 scholarly works digitized and made freely available to everyone in 
the world by JSTOR. 

Known as the Early Journal Content, this set of works include research articles, news, letters, and other 
writings published in more than 200 of the oldest leading academic journals. The works date from the 
mid-seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries. 

We encourage people to read and share the Early Journal Content openly and to tell others that this 
resource exists. People may post this content online or redistribute in any way for non-commercial 
purposes. 

Read more about Early Journal Content at http://about.jstor.org/participate-jstor/individuals/early- 
journal-content . 



JSTOR is a digital library of academic journals, books, and primary source objects. JSTOR helps people 
discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content through a powerful research and teaching 
platform, and preserves this content for future generations. JSTOR is part of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit 
organization that also includes Ithaka S+R and Portico. For more information about JSTOR, please 
contact support@jstor.org. 



MODERN LANGUAGE NOTES 



Vol. XXVII. 



BALTIMOBE, JUNE, 1912. 



No. 6. 



EBBOKS AND INCONSISTENCIES IN 
DEFOE'S ROBINSON CRUSOE 



It is generally recognized that Robinson 
Crusoe is a triumphant piece of verisimilitude, 
that it is unsurpassed among fictitious narra- 
tives for its air of guileless veracity. It is not 
so generally recognized that in securing this 
realism and this appearance of truth Defoe was 
led not infrequently to violate actual " truth " 
or consistency. He sought his effect not by 
truth of characterization, plausibility of motive 
and sequence of events, and the other common 
devices for securing general convincingness, so 
much as by minute particularity of detail in 
his statement of facts. This method, together 
with his unconquerable fondness for making 
out coincidences in dates, put upon him a task 
too great to be accurately executed by one who, 
like him, wrote from hand to mouth. Some of 
his slips were triumphantly pounced upon by 
a hostile contemporary writer, Charles Gildon, 
in a rare pamphlet, The Life And Strange 

Surprizing Adventures of Mr. D DeF , 

of London, Hosier . . . with Remarks Serious 
and Comical upon the Life of Crusoe . . . 1719. 
Since then other writers have noted an error 
here and there. But many of Gildon's criti- 
cisms were petty or absurd, and some of the 
most important discrepancies have not been 
pointed out at all, so that it seems worth while 
to attempt a fairly complete statement of them 
here. However long the list, of course it can- 
not at all belittle the famous story. 

The inadvertencies are of two kinds, con- 
fusions in the chronology of Crusoe's life and 
contradictory statements about Crusoe's situa- 
tion and experiences. Gildon concerned him- 
self almost wholly with the second sort of fault. 
The errors in chronology are, however, more im- 



portant, because, besides the general light they 
throw on Defoe's methods, they furnish good 
corroborative evidence against the existence in 
the story of any precise and literal allegory 
of Defoe's own life, such as Defoe in 1720 
alleged to exist. The best way to examine 
them is to review the outline of the story. 



II 



Only the events of Crusoe's life before and 
after his years of solitude are precisely dated, 
and the chief difficulties are with them. We 
may deal first with the events of his life on the 
island, which are roughly figured from the time 
of the shipwreck. Crusoe was shipwrecked on 
September 30 (pp. 69, 76 ), 1 so that his " year " 
ends on that date, near the end of the wet 
season (p. 117). There are no great difficulties 
with the first four years, three of the four 
anniversaries of his landing being noted care- 
fully (pp. 114, 124, 136, 142). There is a 
contradiction, however, in the two statements 
of the time of the disappearance of the wreck. 
In the general narrative of the shipwreck the 
storm which broke up the ship is said to have 
come on the fourteenth day after Crusoe's 
landing, i. e., on October 14 (pp. 61, 62) ; but 
in the journal we are informed that the storm 
occurred on the night of October 25 (p. 77). 
Then after the reference to the 4th anniversary 
come eight pages of generalizations, followed 
by the statement that " after this [probably the 
anniversary], for five years" (p. 150) little 
happened. He first built a periagua, after 
" near two years " (p. 151) of labor; this would 
bring him to the summer preceding the end of 
his 6th year, but on "the 6th of November, 
in the sixth year of my reign" (p. 152), — 
i. e., just at the beginning of his sixth year, — 

'Page references are to Aitken's edition of Defoe's 
works, vol. i. 



162 



MODERN LANGUAGE NOTES 



[Vol. xxvii, No. 6. 



he makes his first voyage in the periagua. 
There is no reference to what happened at 
the end of the five years of quiet (cf. above, 
p. 150), which would fall at the end of the 
9th year on the island. In his next allusion 
to time, when his ammunition is running low, 
he is "in the eleventh year" (p. 160). The 
next time indication is in connection with the 
discovery of the footprint. After seeing it he 
cogitates for "weeks and months" (p. 174), 
finally reflecting that he has " lived here fifteen 
years" (p. 178) without seeing anyone. He 
then spends " two years " in terror, working on 
fortifications, etc. (p. 181), which brings him 
to the end of his 17th year. He then makes a 
tour of the island and sees the signs of canni- 
bals, upon which occasion he considers (p. 184) 
that he has "been here now almost eighteen 
years." This is going a little too fast. He 
" keeps close " nearly to the end of his twen- 
tieth year (p. 184), and then lives more freely 
for some time. He actually sees the cannibals 
at the end of another two years, in " the month 
of December ... in my twenty-third year" 
(p. 301). 

So far there have been only three slight 
errors, but what follows is difficult to untangle. 
On p. 205 Defoe writes: "I wore out a year 
and three months more before I ever saw any 
more of the savages, and then I found them 
again, as I shall soon observe; . . . in the month 
of May ... in my four and twentieth year, 
I had a very strange encounter with them. . . 
The perturbation of my mind, during this fif- 
teen or sixteen months' interval, was very 
great. I . . . dreamed always frightful dreams. 
. . . But, to waive all this for a while ... it 
was the sixteenth of May" that the Spanish 
ship was wrecked. After the account of the 
wreck he reports living comfortably " near two 
years more" (p. 215), and two pages later 
saye: "I am now to be supposed retired into 
my castle, after my late voyage to the wreck." 
In the next paragraph (p. 217) he continues, 
" It was ... in March, the four and twentieth 
year," etc., that he dreamed of rescuing Friday. 
Then, in " about a year and a half " (p. 223) 
Friday is brought by the cannibals. 

The first sentences of the first passage mean 



that the savages came again, and Friday was 
rescued, in May of the 24th year (of course 
fifteen or sixteen months would give March or 
April). But the statements on pp. 217 and 
223 substitute for the " frightful dreams " of 
the earlier passage a single dream, which comes 
at the end of the fifteen months precisely, and 
put off the rescue of Friday to the end of the 
25th or the beginning of the 26th year. The 
"sixteenth of May" and the "near two years 
more " remain to be considered. At first glance 
Defoe seems to be setting the date of the wreck 
in May of the 24th year; what he really means 
is May of the 23d year, the May following the 
first sight of the savages. The "two years 
more" means nothing, for the dream concerning 
Friday occurred ten months after the wreck 
and Friday was rescued a year and a half after 
that. The "late voyage to the wreck" is an 
attempt impressionistically to bridge the gap 
between May and the following March. 

Friday came in the fall, probably just at the 
beginning of the 26th year (p. 227). Defoe 
makes three references to the length of Friday's 
life on the island. The first is vague and im- 
pressionistic, — " during the long time that Fri- 
day had now been with me," etc. (p. 240), — 
when he had been with Crusoe considerably 
less than a year. The second runs: "the con- 
versation which employed the hours between 
Friday and I was such, as made the three 
years which we lived there together perfectly 
and completely happy ..." (p. 245). Crusoe 
and Friday, according to this statement, lived 
there from the beginning of the 26th to the 
beginning of the 29th year; i. e., Crusoe's stay 
was a little over 28 years, as he says at the end. 
But the quoted sentence seems to imply that 
they were, for the three years, alone on the 
island. In the third passage this fact is as- 
sumed and the date of Friday's arrival is 
pushed back to fit the assumption : " I was now 
entered on the seven and twentieth year of my 
captivity in this place; though the three last 
years that I had this creature with me ought 
rather to be left out of the account ..." 
(p. 255). As a matter of fact Friday had 
been with him just one year instead of three. 

Now at the beginning of the 27th year, 



June, 1912.] 



MODERN LANGUAGE NOTES 



163 



"when the settled season began to come in" 
(p. 256), Friday's father and the Spaniard are 
rescued from the cannibals. About a year is 
spent in laying in a store of provisions, and 
then Friday's father and the Spaniard go to 
rescue the other Spaniards. It was "the first 
measures used by me, in view of my deliverance, 
for now twenty-seven years and some days" 
(p. 277), a statement which apparently means 
merely that he had been on the island 27 years 
and some days, as my computation indicates to 
be the fact. The rescuers left "on the day 
that the moon was full, by my account in the 
month of October " ; and then follows a state- 
ment that Crusoe lost the reckoning of days, but 
" had kept a true reckoning of years " (p. 278) . 
This remark can hardly save Defoe from criti- 
cism, though no doubt he intended it to do so. 
In this particular case Crusoe's computations 
would have been set right by the change in the 
season, which took place about October 15. It 
seems fair to assume, then, that the date on 
which the rescuers went away was not later than 
November 1. About a week later, "no less 
than eight days," as Defoe puts it (p. 278), the 
English ship which has been seized by the 
mutineers comes to the island. The action 
which follows covers five days. 1st day: Two 
boatloads of mutineers come ashore and are 
surprised. 2d day: Conferences; planning; 
midnight attack on the ship. 3d day: Ship 
taken at 2 a. m.; Crusoe packs up his goods. 
4th day: Crusoe goes on board; the ship does 
not sail that night. 5th day: Crusoe leaves 
the island after he "had been upon it eight 
and twenty years, two months, and 19 days." 
Adding the " no less than eight days " and the 
five days of the final action, one finds that 
instead of leaving the island on December 19, 
Crusoe should have been leaving by the middle 
of November at the latest. Moreover, Friday's 
father and the Spaniard, who had been gone 
only a fortnight, left a few days after the end 
of Crusoe's 27th year on the island; so that 
the " eight and twenty years " is not consistent 
with the preceding details. In other words, 
according to the details of the narrative there 
is more evidence in favor of a " captivity " of 



27 years than of one of 28. In favor of 28 
we have this statement at the end of the 
story; the words of the title page, which are 
merely borrowed from the text; and one of the 
references to the length of Friday's stay (p. 
245), which is virtually cancelled by the next 
reference to Friday. 

The uncertainty on this point is important 
in its bearing on the consistency of the dates 
which Defoe gives for the chief events of 
Crusoe's life. The only point considered by 
the critics in connection with the chronology 
of the story has been the discrepancy between 
the statement that Crusoe was 28 years on the 
island and the statement that he was ship- 
wrecked in 1659 and left the island in 1686. 
Mr. Thomas Wright suggested that 1686 was a 
misprint for 1687; Mr. Aitken replied (i, lvij) 
that the date was an error but that the mistake 
was Defoe's, not the printer's, because " in the 
next paragraph we are told that Crusoe reached 
England in June 1687, not 1688." Then in 
The Speaker for April 20, 1895, Mr. Quiller- 
Couch suggested that the error is in the date 
of the shipwreck, which should be 1658. This 
suggestion Mr. Aitken accepted, in a letter in 
The Speaker of May 4, 1895, and in a note 
prefixed to Vol. vii of his edition (p. xvii), 
and he pointed, as corroborative evidence, to 
Crusoe's statement (p. 147) that he was ship- 
wrecked on his 26th birthday. But what is to 
be done with the statement that Crusoe set 
sail from Brazil on his ill-fated voyage to 
Guinea "the same day eight year" (p. 43) 
that he left Hull; when it is perfectly clear 
that he left Hull in the year 1651 ? Obviously 
no single change in the text can set all to 
rights. 

To return to the dates. 1651 is fixed as the 
time of leaving Hull because Crusoe was born 
in 1632, wished to go to sea at the age of 18 
(p. 5), but stayed at home "almost a year 
after this" (p. 6). This corroborates the date, 
September 1, 1651, which appeared in the text 
as early as the 4th edition but was left blank 
in the first edition (p. 6). It is interesting 
to note that in the first edition the date of 
Crusoe's departure for Guinea, September 1, 



164 



MODERN LANGUAGE NOTES 



[Vol. xxvii, No. 6. 



1659, is also omitted (p. 43). This omission 
of dates which were to be chosen later so as to 
accord with later statements does not weaken 
the standing of the date 1659, for Defoe twice 
uses it, in the first edition in referring to the 
date of his shipwreck, on pp. 70, 76. Leaving 
Hull, then, on September 1, 1651, Crusoe in 
six days reaches Yarmouth Soads, remains 
there eight days, is caught in a storm on the 
eighth day and shipwrecked on the ninth (pp. 
9, 11, 12). The wreck should have occurred 
on September 16. But on p. 147 he says that 
he escaped from that wreck and from Sallee 
on the same day of the year, and on p. 311 
he says that the day of his leaving the island, — 
i. e.j December 19, — was the same day of the 
month that he escaped from Sallee. This 
means that he escaped from the wreck and from 
Sallee on September 19. Here is a discrepancy 
of three days in the two statements of the date 
of the wreck in Yarmouth Eoads. After going 
to London, at the end of September 1651, he 
makes two voyages to Guinea, and on the sec- 
ond he is captured by the Moors, on September 
1 (p. 147). The year is uncertain. It seems 
hardly likely that he could pick up his captain 
in London, make one voyage, and start on a 
second one, between October 1651 and August 
1652; yet this would be necessary if he were 
to be captured September 1, 1652. If he was 
captured in 1653, the two years he remained 
a slave in Sallee (p. 20) before his escape on 
September 19 [1655(F)], and the four years 
he spent in Brazil as a planter (p. 41), would 
bring him just to September 1659, the time 
named in the text for the voyage to Guinea 
and the shipwreck on the island. But there 
is one more complication. He said on p. 311 
that he " arrived in England, the 11th of June, 
in the year 1687, having been thirty and five 
years absent." This makes the year in which 
he started his second trip to Guinea 1652. I 
have just mentioned the difficulty in assuming 
this date. It would, of course, make 1658 the 
year of his shipwreck. If one is anxious, how- 
ever, to establish some consistency in the dates, 
apparently the simplest thing to do would be : 
(t) assume that twenty-eight years is a mistake 



for twenty-seven; (w) assume that thirty-five 
years is a mistake for thirty-four, made under 
the influence of the miscalculation just before 
it (the two statements occur in successive sen- 
tences) ; (iii) assume that twenty-six, on p. 
147, is a mistake for twenty-seven. These three 
changes, the first two of which are virtually 
one, would make the main outline of the chro- 
nology, I think, consistent. Of course they 
will not remove the lesser slips; but they are 
at least more satisfactory than the simple 
changing of 1659 to 1658. As a matter of fact, 
the text should be recognized to be inconsistent 
and then left unchanged. 

Ill 

Gildon, in his scurrilous attack on Robinson 
Crusoe, makes some general criticism of the 
book in addition to pointing out particular 
slips. "If the faults of it," he says, "had 
extended no farther than the frequent Sole- 
cisms, Looseness and Incorrectness of Stile, 
Improbabilities, and sometimes Impossibilities, 
I had not given you the trouble of tins epistle." 
But he objects to the lack of patriotism which 
compares Englishmen with Spaniards to the 
latters' advantage; to the unfair treatment of 
English seamen; to the impieties and super- 
stition and too great tolerance of Catholics. 
And if he can prevent the spread of these 
ideas, "I shall not think my Labour lost." 

Most of Gildon's general remarks and many 
of his specific complaints are petty enough, as 
the above quotation indicates. In my list I 
shall include only those which seem pertinent. 

P. 14. " telling his father who I was," etc. 
Gildon observes that Crusoe "got on board a 
ship, without so much as ever saying one Word 
to the Master of her, who we must suppose 
never saw him for about three Weeks, till, 
after his Ship was cast away, he met him in 
Yarmouth, and was there inform'd by his Son, 
who, and what he was; tho' presently after he 
had heard this, he asks him, who, and what he 
was, as if he had known nothing of the Mat- 
ter . . ." 

P. 15. "not tempt Providence to my ruin," 
etc. Gildon remarks most seriously: "If 
Storms are sent by Providence to deter Men 



June, 1912.] 



MODERN LANGUAGE NOTES 



165 



from Navigation, I may reasonably suppose, 
that there is not one of all that vast Number 
I have mention'd, to whom Providence has not 
sent the same Warning." 

Pp. 53-54. " I pulled off my clothes . . . and 
took the water ... I went to the bread-room 
and filled my pockets with biscuit ... I had 
the mortification to see my coat, shirt, and 
waistcoat . . . swim away; as for my breeches 
... I swam on board in them, and my stock- 
ings." Gildon observed: "I shall not take 
Notice of his striping (sic) himself to swim on 
Board, and then filling his Pockets with Bisket, 
because that is already taken Notice of in 
Publick; and in the last Edition, at least, of 
the Book, you have endeavour'd to salve this 
Difficulty, by making him keep his Breeches 
on ... " Aitken points out that " as for my 
breeches," etc., appeared in the first edition; 
he is hardly fair, however, in finding no fault 
in Defoe's method, for certainly it looks as if 
the detail were tucked in as an afterthought; 
the reader finds contradiction enough in the 
first two statements. 

P. 69. "for want of books and pen and 
ink." On p. 70 he possesses ink. 

P. 70. "three . . . Bibles." Gildon wonders 
" why Robinson should put three on Board for 
his Voyage to Guinea, when one was likely to 
be more than he would make use of, if we may 
believe his own Account of the little regard he 
had to any Beligion." 

P. 104. "certainly I lost a day in my ac- 
count." This remark seems to be introduced 
merely for the sake of the immediate incident. 
Later he makes two other statements concern- 
ing errors in his reckoning which are inconsis- 
tent with this and with each other, and the 
second of which seems to be intended to cover 
up possible discrepancies in his statements: 
(i) p. 115, — " I found at the end of my account, 
I had lost a day or two in my reckoning"; 
and (ii) p. 378, — "as for an exact reckoning 
of days, after I had once lost it, I could never 
recover it again"; etc. 

P. 116. " it grew as if it had been but newly 
sown." This is inconsistent with statements in 
this sentence, in the next sentence, and in the 
sentence on p. 137 beginning "The ground I 
had . . ," all of which are to the effect that 
the seed first sown was lost altogether. 

P. 131. "I wanted . . . salt." But on p. 
336 Crusoe tries to get Friday to eat salt with 
his meat. 

P. 136. " How I did afterwards," etc. Defoe 
forgets his promise. 

P. 145. "falling early into the seafaring 
life," etc. Gildon estimates that Crusoe " never 



kept Company with Seamen above three Weeks 
in all his Life, and that was from Hull to Yar- 
mouth." On his other voyages he associated 
only with the Masters of the vessels, and on 
his first trip to Brazil he knew so little of the 
language of the crew that he could not have 
picked up much evil. He must have had "a 
strange Alacrity in Sinking" etc. 

P. 160. " there were pipes in the ship," etc. 
Defoe has forgotten that Crusoe saved a pipe 
from the wreck; cf. p. 51. 

P. 175. "I had not stirred ... for three 
days," etc. Gildon asks what happened to the 
goats when Crusoe went off for a six days' trip 
(p. 166), if they were "almost spoiled" by 
three days' neglect. 

P. 196. " looking farther into the place," etc. 
Gildon asks how Crusoe could see the goat's 
eyes if the place was "perfectly dark," and 
adds that the " dim light " mentioned later in 
the sentence does not help the situation, because 
if there was a dim light it was not perfectly 
dark. 

P. 313. " if I may guess ... she must have 
been bound . . . to the Havanna." This con- 
jecture in regard to the ship, — since, as the 
" may " shows, it is made at the time of com- 
position, after all the events of the story have 
taken place, — is inconsistent with the fact that 
he had exact information from the Spaniard: 
cf. p. 373. 

P. 334. "he outstripped them." Aitken men- 
tions "the improbability that the savages who 
pursued Friday would be unable to swim across 
a creek, or would not shoot at him with an 
arrow when they saw he was gaining upon 
them." 

P. 337. " the first sound of a man's voice that 
I had heard ... for above twenty-five years." 
Aitken quotes "critics" to the effect that 
" Crusoe could hardly have lived by himself for 
so many years without becoming insane; he 
certainly would not at the end of the time have 
been quite as intelligent as he was at the be- 
ginning, nor would he have remembered such 
Spanish as he had once known " (i. lxiv) . 

P. 373. " and Portuguese." No Portuguese 
are mentioned afterwards in this part of the 
story or in the Farther Adventures. 

P. 374. "fourteen, still alive." This is ap- 
parently a slip for " sixteen." We might 
assume that there were fourteen Spaniards and 
two Portuguese, in keeping with the statement 
made just before, but in the sequel of the 
story the number of Spaniards is twice at least 
given as sixteen; cf. Farther Adventures, pp. 
50, 93. 

P. 377. " I gave him a strict charge in writ- 



166 



MODERN LANGUAGE NOTES 



[Vol. xxvii, No. 6. 



ing." Gildon points out that Crusoe's ink had 
been exhausted long before. 

P. 302. " Our strength was now thus ordered 
for the expedition." In the first edition the 
latter part of this paragraph read as follows 
(spelling and punctuation modernized) : " 3. 
The other two whom I had kept till now in my 
apartment, pinioned, but upon the captain's 
motion had now released. 4. The single man 
taken in the boat. 5. These five released at 
last; so that they were thirteen in all, besides 
five we kept prisoners in the cave and the two 
hostages." Here, as elsewhere, Defoe succeeds 
in getting an effect of verisimilitude with his 
figures, but here at least his use of them was 
only "impressionistic"; in reality he was 
rather badly muddled. He evidently felt that 
something was wrong, for in the table of errata 
at the end of the first edition he attempted to 
patch things up by the following changes : " for 
apartment read bower; dele the single man 
taken in the boat 6; for thirteen read twelve; 
[for] and the two read for." These changes, 
which have been followed in all subsequent 
editions I have seen, only make the muddle 
worse, as can be shown by a brief review of the 
narrative. 

18 mutineers came ashore, 8 in the first boat 
and 10 in the second. Of the first 8, 2 were 
killed, and 6 surrendered, of whom 2 at once 
joined the captain's party, 2 were sent to the 
cave, and 2 were "pinioned," in a place not 
specified. Of the 10 men of the second gang, 
1 was "knocked down" by the captain and 
apparently killed (at least, there is no reference 
to him later) ; 1, " the single man taken in the 
boat," joins the captain's party at once; 2 are 
shot and killed by the captain and Friday; 6, 
therefore, remain to be made prisoners. Of 
these 6, 3 are sent to the cave; "the other [s]," 
number not given, are pinioned in the bower. 
The situation at the end of the day is, then, as 
follows : there are 10 prisoners, of whom 5 are 
in the cave, 2 pinioned in a place not named, 
and 3, — in regard to whom it is to be noted that 
Defoe does not give their number directly, — 
are in the bower; there are 8 in the captain's 
party, Crusoe and Friday, the captain and the 
two passengers, the 2 men from the first gang 
of mutineers, and the "man taken in the 
boat"; the total number of men alive on the 
island is 18. 

Defoe's mistakes begin to appear when Cru- 
soe rearranges the men for the expedition to 
the ship on the second day. The paragraph 
beginning "However, that we might be very 
secure" is entirely inconsistent with previous 



statements, and the references in it cannot be 
satisfactorily interpreted. It is clear, however, 
from the original form of the paragraph enu- 
merating the attacking force, that Defoe has 
swelled the numbers on the island from 18 to 
22, 20 named in the paragraph and Crusoe 
and Friday besides. The corrections in the 
table of errata reduce the total number to 19, 
but this is not the 18 of the previous night. 
Moreover two inconsistencies are involved in 
the changes: first, "the single man taken in 
the boat," if not listed separately as in the 
first version, must disappear altogether; second, 
the two following paragraphs of the text indi- 
cate that after the 12 of the attacking force 
had left there were 7 on the island besides 
Crusoe and Friday, making a total of 21. 
Defoe has apparently at one time counted two 
of his dead mutineers as living and at another 
time resuscitated four of them; and in trying 
to patch things up, he has involved himself 
worse by erasing altogether the man in the 
boat. There is no feasible way of securing a 
consistent text, and the original reading had 
best be left intact. 

P. 326. "two hours before night." Gildon 
remarks that if it was so near nightfall, if 
they had three leagues to go, and if the travel- 
ing was bad on account of the snow, it is highly 
improbable that they would stop to give Friday 
a chance to "make laugh" with the bear. 

P. 341. "1694." In the Farther Adven- 
tures the date is given as 1693. 



IV 



There is perhaps no more appropriate way of 
concluding these notes than by quoting, from 
Defoe's Preface to the Farther Adventures, his 
impartial "Editor's opinion" of the first vol- 
ume. 

" The success the former part of this work 
has met with in the world, has yet been no 
other than is acknowledged to be due to the 
surprising variety of the subject and to the 
agreeable manner of the performance. 

"All the endeavors of envious people to 
reproach it with being a romance, to search it 
for errors in geography, inconsistency in the 
relation, and contradictions in the fact, have 
proved abortive, and as impotent as malicious." 



Brown University. 



William T. Hastings. 



