
STOP 



Early Journal Content on JSTOR, Free to Anyone in the World 

This article is one of nearly 500,000 scholarly works digitized and made freely available to everyone in 
the world by JSTOR. 

Known as the Early Journal Content, this set of works include research articles, news, letters, and other 
writings published in more than 200 of the oldest leading academic journals. The works date from the 
mid-seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries. 

We encourage people to read and share the Early Journal Content openly and to tell others that this 
resource exists. People may post this content online or redistribute in any way for non-commercial 
purposes. 

Read more about Early Journal Content at http://about.jstor.org/participate-jstor/individuals/early- 
journal-content . 



JSTOR is a digital library of academic journals, books, and primary source objects. JSTOR helps people 
discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content through a powerful research and teaching 
platform, and preserves this content for future generations. JSTOR is part of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit 
organization that also includes Ithaka S+R and Portico. For more information about JSTOR, please 
contact support@jstor.org. 



94 Femsemer 



DANIEL DEFOE AND THE PALATINE EMIGRATION 

OF 1709 

A New View of the Origin of Robinson Crusoe 1 



The suggestions hitherto offered concerning the origin of 
Daniel Defoe's masterpiece, Robinson Crusoe, have long seemed 
unsatisfactory to the critical reader, and in no way fully ex- 
planatory of the tremendous effect of this piece of literature. 
There is hardly an introduction to Defoe's works that does not 
touch upon this point, nor is there a biographer who does not 
dwell on it to a certain extent; there are even more than half 
a dozen dissertations and separate articles which attempt to 
offer a solution. Yet nowhere could I find a conclusive argu- 
ment to explain the remarkable phenomenon of a busy political 
journalist, at an age when he might gracefully have retired, 
turning once more, as in the case of "A true account of the 
Apparition of One Mrs. Veal," to the writing of narrative, and 
promptly surprising the world with a contribution of classic 
order. 

The most distinguished living authority on Defoe, Professor 
W. P. Trent of Columbia University, attempts to describe this 
phase of the author's evolution. He first assigns all that is 
due to Defoe's own genius and experience as a writer to the 
popular narratives of the day, which he was supposedly fond of. 
Leading up to the beginnings of "Robinson Crusoe," however, 
the biographer says, "Finally when it is remembered, that in 
1718, he was contributing to Mists, week by week, letters from 
fictitious correspondents, that his wide reading in geography 
had given him a knowledge of foreign countries, particularly 
of Africa and both Americas, and that he had long since shown 
himself to be a skillful purveyor of instruction and an adept 
at understanding the character of the average man, we begin 
to see, that, given an incident like the experiences of Alexander 

1 The subject of this study was suggested to the author by Professor Julius 
Goebel. To Professor W. P. Trent of Columbia University, who read the 
manuscript, he is indebted for kind advice and many valuable suggestions. 



Daniel Defoe and the Palatine Emigration 95 

Selkirk and an increasing desire to make money through his 
pen in order to portion his daughters, we have a plausible 
explanation of the evolution of Defoe the novelist out of Defoe 
the journalist and miscellaneous writer." 2 Like an echo of 
this sounds a remark by E. A. Baker in the otherwise excellent 
introduction to his edition of "Moll Flanders" and "Roxana," 
when he says "not that Defoe cared a pin for art. In the case 
of such a man as he, always ready to turn his hand to any 
lucrative employment, business considerations of course came 
foremost." 3 

1 should hesitate myself to accept these explanations of the 
origin of Robinson Crusoe as entirely satisfactory, for however 
prosaic the initial impulse of the author may have been, the 
conception of the work shows decided traces of idealism. 

A. Kippenberg goes to the other extreme in not allowing 
that the book has been created from any other motive but free 
poetic glee. He accuses Defoe of "dealing Crusoe a blow" by 
telling us that he composed his work with a definite moral 
tendency. 4 

Before presenting what seem to me the basic elements of 
Robinson Crusoe, the result of research in Defoe's and other 
early eighteenth century journals, I will go somewhat deeper 
into the theories which have hitherto been advanced concerning 
the origin of this work. 

It is a well know fact that Defoe's peculiar manner of pre- 
senting a story gave rise to these speculations. Artfully written 
introductions to the second and third parts of "Robinson 
Crusoe" enshrouded the whole work in an even thicker veil of 
mystery, leaving the way open for three entirely different 
interpretations. Those who believed that "Robinson Crusoe" 
was pure fiction or, to use Defoe's words, who reproached it 
with being a romance, were told that this imaginary story had 
its just allusion to a real story, and chimed part for part and 
step for step with the inimitable life of Robinson Crusoe. 5 
Now some searched for the real story, others jumped on the 

2 The Cambridge History of English Literature, Vol. IX. 

3 "Moll Flanders" and "Roxana," with introduction by E. A. Baker, p. XV. 

4 A. Kippenberg, Robinson in Deutschland bis zur Insel Felsenburg (1741-43), 
p. 37. 

5 R.C. Ill, XI. 



96 Femsemer 

word allusion and declared the whole thing an allegory. The 
real story, however, was soon discovered. 

The account of a Scotch sailor, Alexander Selkirk, who 
experienced adventures very similar to those of Crusoe, is 
generally supposed to have furnished Defoe not only with the 
idea but also with the material for his story. Wright supplies 
a picture of the house in Bristol where Defoe is said to have 
met the mariner and to have received his papers. 6 Trent, 
however, says there is no foundation for such an assumption, 
as the returned sailor has not been shown to have had any 
papers at all. Yet he, too, speaks of the Selkirk adventure as 
the germ of the book. Not only do the earlier English biog- 
raphers such as Minto, Lee, Chadwick and Wilson agree on 
this point but also such a German scholar as A. Kippenberg, 
who calls the Selkirk adventures the seeds "which shot up 
brilliantly under Defoe's care." 7 F. Wackwitz likewise points 
to the return of Alexander Selkirk as the upper limit in Defoe's 
sources, and vaguely draws attention to the rise of social science, 
the philosophy of Hobbes and the political turmoil of 1688 as 
the deeper problems wherewith was drenched the soil from 
which the Selkirk seed grew. 8 Hettner, though older than 
either of these two, seems to have arrived nearer the truth 
than any of them by the force of his historial and philosophical 
intuition. He writes: "and yet it was the outer conditions of 
Defoe's life which became determinative factors in origin and 
contents of "Robinson Crusoe." The adventure of Selkirk 
gave the poet only a few scanty outlines." 9 

The other group of interpreters were misled, as I intimated, 
by Defoe's rather indiscriminate use of terms such as allegorical, 
just allusion, just reference, scheme, emblem, emblematic 
history, parable and allegoric history, in reference to his tale 
of adventure, and therefore we really ought not to be surprised 
at this "intrepid band of students", as Trent mockingly calls 
them, for taking "Robinson Crusoe" as an allegorical auto- 
biography of its author. It reveals a certain sort of wit to 
compare the revolution of 1688 to a shipwreck, the Earl of 

« Thomas Wright, The Life of Daniel Defoe. 

' A. Kippenberg, p. 21 

8 F. Wackwitz, Entstehungsgeschichte von Defoe's Robinson Crusoe, p. 56. 

* H. Hettner, Daniel Defoe und der Robinson Crusoe, p. 292. 



Daniel Defoe and the Palatine Emigration 97 

Oxford to a parrot, William III to an umbrella, the Tories to the 
man-eating Caribeans and the Reverend Saccheverell to the 
first savage. Even as late as 1894 Thomas Wright, with great 
pride in revealing to us the true key to Robinson Crusoe, 
declares in all sincerity that all we have to do in order to arrive 
at important dates in the author's life is to add twenty-seven 
years to dates so carefully registered by the lonely islander. 
If, for instance, Crusoe was wrecked on the 30th of September, 
1659, we, by this simple arithmetical calculation, arrive at the 
30th of September, 1686, the day when Defoe's life of silence 
is supposed to have commenced. He kept quiet until Decem- 
ber, 1714, which makes the period of his voluntary retirement 
from speech twenty-eight years, two months and about one- 
half, the length of time which Crusoe spent on his island. 
From all I have read of Defoe I have come to the conclusion 
that the one thing he could not do was to keep silent. And 
although this period of silence is supposed to be understood 
in regard to his family relations, we have no proofs at all for 
this reflection on his private life, so little of which is unfor- 
tunately known. 

Wright's allegorical theories are repeated by Wackwitz, 
who does not seem quite sure whether to believe them or not. 
"If we remember how many essential points in Robinson were 
explained by literary models and suggestions these autobio- 
graphical traits, even if their truth were apparent, seem scanty 
and unessential. Experience of general similarity may have 
helped Defoe to put himself into the mood of the lonely islander 
and to describe them warmly, but events, characters and 
thoughts came to him from without." 10 H. P. Geisler comes 
to a very much clearer and more satisfactory result: "The 
allegation that Robinson is an allegory of Defoe's life is based 
on an unlawful specification of a term which neglects the 
illuminating context." 11 

As none of these theories, so painstakingly worked out by 
scholars and generally accepted, seemed wholly satisfactory, 
it was necessary to go deeper and to ask whether there was 
anything that happened in Defoe's own life previous to 1719 

10 F. Wackwitz, p. 57. 

" H. P. Geisler: Is "Robinson Crusoe" an allegory? P. 18. 



98 Femsemer 

which might have led him to the Robinson-idea. This idea 
being, as I interpret it, the struggle of man for individuality, 
for development of the self from its own resources, unaided and 
unhampered by civilization; in short: the producing of a state 
of spiritual contentment on the basis of a natural existence; 
the crying wish for ridding oneself or escaping from all negative 
human forces which drag us down, such as physical needs 
caused by unfavorable economic conditions, mental and 
spiritual anguish and serfdom created by conscription of 
thought and feeling, commonly called political and religious 
oppression. If, as I said before, we could trace in Defoe's life 
history — disregarding literary influences of any kind — an 
event or a movement which in its essence would reveal a same- 
ness of ideas, an identity in principle and purpose with the 
Crusoe fable, we could justly point to it as a source of inspira- 
tion to the author — this notwithstanding the Selkirk report 
which, in my opinion, is nothing but a vehicle for Defoe's great 
message, though a most happily chosen one. 

Even as great a poet as Goethe did not hesitate to use a 
legend as a vehicle for his finest thoughts — why, then, should a 
political economist and social reformer of Defoe's indiscriminate 
ardor not seize a fascinating adventure, true or fictitious, to 
make propaganda for his favorite projects? To exhaust the 
parallel, we might admit that the popularity of the continuatipn 
of "Robinson Crusoe," where the fable shrinks to a shadow and 
the moral rules supreme is today no greater than was that of 
the second part of "Faust," where also the action is lost in the 
sand-dunes, and hair-splitting philosophizing reveals the 
writer's true aim. Goethe is as little a dramatist as Defoe a 
novelist in these respective parts of their works. Both use 
their skilled pen for a purpose. In Defoe's case this assump- 
tion has frequently been challenged by English and German 
critics. I hope, however, to confirm it by revealing the hitherto 
unrecognized or unknown forces which precipitated the con- 
ception of Robinson Crusoe. 

It is well recognized that "one cannot examine the literary 
products of the reign of Queen Anne without watching for 
political allusion. It is often necessary to do so if one is to get 
a fair understanding of implied meanings." 12 When we apply 

12 Stephens: Party Politics and English Journalism (1702-1742), p. 2. 



Daniel Defoe and the Palatine Emigration 99 

this principle to Defoe's "Robinson Crusoe" it very soon 
becomes evident that the Selkirk theory does not wholly fit 
the case. The book is not only quantitatively far more than a 
circumstantiated tale of adventure; its abundant allusions to 
places and conditions most significant to the readers of the age 
show its author to be more than a genius of imagination. His 
mind seems to be pregnant with political happenings, his fancy 
dwells on social dreams. The idea of being transported to 
some spot where existence, based on an equal economic chance 
for every individual, is ennobled by spiritual freedom, appears 
to dominate his world of thought. In "Robinson Crusoe" 
this is very evidently the central idea; and it occurs again and 
again as a solution in Defoe's novels of crime. As Defoe once 
expressed it: "The transported felon is a much happier man 
than the most prosperous untaken thief in the nation." 13 

If it were possible to discover the cradle of this pet-idea, or, 
in other words, if any material could be produced which would 
prove Defoe's active interest or participation in the colonization 
schemes of his day, we should obviously have every reason to 
give it an even more prominent place in the moulding of the 
Robinson-idea and story than the previously accepted motives. 

It has hitherto been entirely overlooked that Defoe actually 
did play an important r61e in the most remarkable colonization 
scheme of the time, 14 a scheme which may well have furnished 
him with the germ idea of the story. Just ten years before the 
publication of "Robinson Crusoe," during the months of May 
and June, 1709, the citizens of the City of London were aston- 
ished to find the streets of that metropolis swarming with men 
and women of an alien race, speaking an unknown tongue and 
bearing unmistakable indications of poverty, misery and want. 
It soon became known that about five thousand of these people 
were sheltered under tents in the suburbs of the city. Addi- 

13 Col. Tacques, p. 4. 

" In this connection Professor W. P. Trent points out to me that "although 
Defoe's interest in the Palatines is plain, and is shown as late as his "Plan of the 
English Commerce" and in numerous pamphlets, it is also true that he had 
planned for English settlements in South America as early as King William 
3rd's day and that in his tracts about the South Sea Scheme and in "A voyage 
around the World" this type of colony was in his mind. Defoe's general and 
practical interest in English colonization was doubtless a continuation of the 
Elizabethan tradition." 



100 Femsemer 

tions were made almost daily during June, July, August and 
September, and by October from between thirteen to fourteen 
thousand had come. It was soon found that these people were 
Germans from the country lying between Landau, Speier and 
Mannheim, reaching almost to Cologne, commonly called the 
Palatinate. This sudden invasion of so many thousands of 
foreigners into a country where but few of them had ever 
appeared before, and where they were utter strangers, rather 
than into neighboring countries of like faith and kindred lan- 
guage that would perhaps have been more ready to welcome 
them, stands forth as one of the most remarkable facts of the 
time. 15 Historians have endeavored, but failed, to discover 
some great moving cause, some all powerful impulse to which 
they might ascribe this monster emigration. Diffenderfer, 
whose account I am quoting, emphasizes the fact that no one 
reason or cause was responsible for this remarkable movement 
but that it was the result of a combination of causes which 
had long been at work. 

Defoe, having just at this time returned from Scotland, 16 
had an opportunity of seeing and interviewing these poor people. 
After waiting a few weeks for the reaction of the public to this 
"German invasion" he takes up the matter in his "Review." 
The angle from which he approaches the subject is an excellent 
specimen of his journalistic skill. He knows his public and 
how to win those who were largely opposed to the foreign 
immigrants. He pretends to be talking on trade, a subject on 
which he was an acknowledged authority. 

The essential of commerce, he points out, is people: "The 
more people, the more trade; the more trade, the more money; 
the more money, the more strength; and the more strength, the 
greater a nation. Thus all temporal felicities, I mean national, 
spring from the numbers of people." 17 As a counterproof Scot- 
land's poverty is quoted, which he thinks is caused by the 
emigration of its inhabitants. But what he is driving at comes 
only now: the question of what to do with ten thousand poor 

15 Diffenderfer: The German Exodus To England in 1709. 

16 Cf., W. P. Trent: Defoe, How to Know Him, p. 93. — His movements for 
the next seven months (after Christmas 1708) are not clear, but it is on the 
whole probable that he remained in London. 

17 Review, No. 38 (July 2, 1709). 



Daniel Defoe and the Palatine Emigration 101 

refugee Germans who had come over from the Palatinate. 
There was a concrete case to deal with, a sudden considerable 
increase in population, the advantage of which for England, 
though poor and foreign the newcomers were — it was now up to 
him to prove. A delicate task if we realize that the "Dutchmen" 
were not much more popular on the British Isles at that day 
than they are now. 18 It was Defoe's peculiar fortune to get 
himself into difficulties for championing lost causes, and had he 
not gone thru all the agonies and persecutions of a political and 
religious non-conformist he would not have found the courage to 
take up the cause of the persecuted Palatines. His undeniable 
sympathy for them was not only based on the fact that they 
were his brethren in faith, but on his extensive and first-hand 
knowledge of their history and civilization. 

It was perfectly natural that the people of London and the 
vicinity should see nothing but a public nuisance, an imposition 
on their good will and charity, and a meanace to their own poor 
and needy in these refugees, with whom they had nothing in 
common. Although individuals took them in, fed and clothed 
them, and the government furnished them with tents and 
inaugurated public collections thruout the country, the murmur- 
ings grew louder. Defoe had a hard time arguing down "his 
countrymen's ill-natured suggestions of strange and imaginary 
mischiefs those poor people would bring them, of which not one 
tittle was otherwise true than in the prejudices of whimsie and 
ignorance." 19 He lectures to them most severely on their 
greed — "But it is our humor, we will wallow in plenty and let 
nobody partake of it;" 20 he ridicules their unnatural pride and 
barbarity which is all the more unfounded since (here one may 
perceive the strains of the true-born Englishman) 21 they were all 

18 Cf., Diffenderfer, p. 305: To many Englishmen, especially among the 
lower orders, the name of German was synonymous with that of Catholic, and 
this fact served to intensify the dislike with which these colonists were regarded 
upon their arrival in England. 

15 Review, No. 41 (July 9, 1709). 

20 Ibid , No. 42 (July 12, 1709). 

21 Cf., The True bom Englishman: 

"These are the heroes who dispose the Dutch 
And rail at new-come foreigners so much! 
Forgetting that themselves are all derived 
From the most scoundrel race that ever lived." 



102 Fernsrmer 

originally refugees in the shadow of Britain's wealth and fertil- 
ity, yet "we will not because we will not have strangers settle 
among us because we will not." 22 

Having spent himself with little apparent success in showing 
his public the blackness of the English soul, Defoe abandons 
moralizing and hopes to seize their interest by an appeal to their 
business instincts. In going back to his opening argument on 
the material advantages a trading-nation draws from the 
increase in number of its population, he shows that in this case 
quality was added to quantity. If the people only knew who 
those poor beggars really were, what they really came for, and 
what they could do, if put in a condition to work, it might 
finally dawn on their involuntary hosts that a more cordial 
reception and wise disposition of them might not be a bad 
investment after all. Besides, he adds, the kindness shown to 
these poor people would help to wipe out the blots that lie in 
their characters as Englishmen abroad; if these people were 
received, kindly harbored, relieved and settled, it would be an 
unanswerable return upon those that should hereafter reproach 
the English, at home or abroad, with want of courtesy or want 
of humanity to strangers. 23 Confident that the public mind 
would change as soon as it knew the true state of these Pala- 
tines, Defoe put forth their whole predicament in the following 
brilliant editorial: 

"The poor people we are now speaking of, to the honor of 
Britain and to the particular reputation of the present reign, are 
come over hither for liberty — to say they were beggars, and are 
come over for bread, is to say nothing. They were a flourishing 
people, they come not from barren mountains, unhealthful 
climates, or a poor uncultivated country — the Palatinate is 
known to be one of the finest, most fruitful, rich, peasant, and 
healthful countries in Europe — the land rich, provisions plenti- 
ful, full of great cities and trading towns, full of people, full of 
commerce, and full of manufactures — the Rhine runs thru it, 
the Main and the Neckar traverse and encompass it; three 
rivers, the navigation whereof brings great trade, and conse- 
quently wealth to the inhabitants; they send yearly great 

a Review, No. 45 (July 19, 1709). 
"Review, No. 62 (Aug. 27, 1709). 



Daniel Defoe and the Palatine Emigration 103 

quantities of corn, wine and cattle into other countries. The 
plains and dales are filled with corn, the hills covered with vines, 
and the whole country allowed to be of the most pleasant and 
most fruitful part of Germany. It is evident they do not come 
because their country won't keep them or the earth supply their 
families with necessaries — but they are ravaged by enemies, 
they are the frontier of this bloody war, the French have fre- 
quently plundered their country, burned their cities and towns, 
and almost every year exacted contributions from them, with 
the utmost rigor. This has improverished them, and made them 
unable to pay the heavy taxes their own prince exacts — so that 
between Papism of the enemy and the imposts and exactions of 
their own sovereign, the poor people have been ruined, their 
labor devoured, their properties taken from them by violence, 
and they oppressed and devoured with unsufferable injuries. 

"From these distresses they look abroad for an asylum, a 
place of rest, a land where liberty is established, and property 
secured; where what their industry has gained the government 
will permit them to enjoy; where they may reap what they sow, 
and eat what they earn — where they may call their souls their 
own, and may not starve in the midst of plenty. — And this they 
have been told, is to be obtained in England, above all the 
nations of the earth. — And to this end they fly hither — this is 
the true, genuine and only design of their coming." 24 

Tempting as it might be, it is beyond the limits of this 
present paper to exploit this unusual document for anything but 
what seems to bear upon the Robinson-idea. Defoe was 
apparently the only one in his country who defended the blind 
idealism of the Palatines and one of the few who could grasp it. 
A group of people leave their home and country, hurrying, as 
Defoe said of Robinson, after a dream and obeying blindly the 
dictates of fancy rather than their reason. What did the 
Palatines know of where they were going? Nothing. They 
believed that there was such a place on earth, an asylum, an 
island, where there was liberty and freedom of conscience, and 
they hoped they would get there. No more than ignorant 
children did they think of the practical difficulties such an 
exodus would entail. They never for a moment considered the 

u Review, No. 61 (Aug. 25, 1709). 



104 Fernsemer 

embarrassment they caused their own governments; it never 
entered their minds that at every station of their journey they 
would be a burden to the local authorities and they would have 
to depend greatly on foreign kindness and charity. As for the 
dangers and discomforts of trans-Atlantic voyage to that 
dream-island they hoped to reach — they could not have had the 
remotest conception of. "It was liberty they sought, liberty 
under which to live, to worship and to become happy." Like 
insects swarming around the light they made for the irresistible 
phantom. 

Their courageous spokesman could have told them a few 
things about liberty and the price of it in the most liberal 
country of the day — in England. "In the school of affliction," 
Defoe says once, "I have learned more philosophy than at the 
Academy, and more divinity than from the pulpit; in prison I 
have learned to know that liberty does not consist in open 
doors." 26 Neither in open shores, we might add, for the few 
who finally reached their destination, the English colonies of 
America, did so at the price of personal freedom. It proved 
to be more or less a trap set for them by the big land owners, 
especially of North Carolina, whose home government unfor- 
tunately seems to have supported them. The eagerness of 
these poor people, who were willing to better their conditions 
at any price, and their ignorance of conditions abroad, was 
exploited by unscrupulous trade-organizations. As this is a 
fact which has remained unexplained for many years, I con- 
sider the favorable attitude of England's foremost editorial 
writer of particular importance. His statements gain almost 
the value of official documents espousing the cause of the 
colonization scheme, when one remembers Defoe's relations to 
his government at that time. Speaking of the "Review," the 
journal I have been quoting from, Stevens says: "This journal 
was at first intended as a moderate guide to public opinion 
but quite naturally its tone become more and more openly 
favorable to all administration measures." 26 And in a letter 
of July 17 (1704) Defoe himself admits it to be a government 
organ. 27 If this be so, what reasons had the English govern- 

86 Review VIII, Preface. 
28 Stevens, p. 8. 
" Ibid., p. 47. 



Daniel Defoe and the Palatine Emigration 105 

ment to express a sympathetic attitude toward the Palatines 
when its people had not a good word for them? Did anybody's 
conscience suddenly feel uncomfortable when they saw num- 
bers of these wretched looking immigrants, who had been 
lured to England by greedy landowners, backed by the English 
government, wander from house to house and street to street 
asking for charity? Whether or not, it certainly touched the 
hearts of the Lords proprietors of Carolina, who on the arrival 
of the first thousands published in the "Gazette" an offer to 
give everyone of these Palatines a thousand acres of land on a 
peppercorn rent, though they demanded "that the government 
should pay eight pounds for every adult's transportation and 
four pounds for every child." 28 

If the propaganda of the landowners furnished the immediate 
impulse of that monster exodus of the Palatines in 1709, the 
popularly accepted reasons, such as the widespread poverty, 
the religious persecution, and the exceedingly cold winter of 
1708, lose considerably in their weight of conviction. Holmes 
regards "the nattering suggestions made to the Palatines in their 
own country, by the agents of land companies, who wished to 
secure settlers for lands in the British colonies in America and 
thus give value to their lands, as the immediate occasion for 
the movement." 29 

The final proof of England's hand in the whole matter has 
only recently been furnished by Julius Goebel. He collected 
letters of the German emigrants of the year 1709, and in his 
"New Documents" to the history of the monster exodus of that 
year he writes: 

"It is now quite certain that the English ambassador in 
Frankfort on the Main interviewed persons from various places, 
and advised them, that he furthermore gave them a pamphlet 
and distributed amongst them the book about Carolina, prob- 
ably Kocherthal's 'Ausfuhrlicher und umstandlicher Bericht 
von der bertihmten Landschaft Carolina,' which had appeared 
in Frankfort." 30 

28 H. A. Holmes: The Palatine Emigration to England in 1709, p. 8. 

29 Holmes, p. 5. 

30 J. Goebel: Neue Dokumente zur Geschichte der Masseneinwanderung im 
Jakre, 1709, Jahrbuch der deutsch-amerikanischen historischen Gesellschaft von 
Illinois, 1913, p. 181. 



106 Femsemer 

H. V. Todd likewise concludes his exhaustive treatment of 
the matter with the words: "The truth is, Queen Anne was 
attempting to continue Cromwell's plan of expansion, and in 
this program she was in need of increasing her subjects at home 
and in the colonies by inviting, and even subsidizing people, 
to settle in English America." 31 

The famous golden book with Queen Anne's picture on the 
front page did not fail to create in the minds of these suppressed 
people an exaggerated picture of the free and prosperous life 
in the plantations, in contrast to the poverty, desolation and 
oppression of their native land, and where the written word 
failed to convince, a free ticket to Holland, whence the trans- 
ports to England were managed, facilitated the decision. 32 

It would be for a psychologist to decide which, after all, 
were the prime motives for immigration in this case, attractive 
inducements in the form of land or toleration in religious 
matters. Indeed, most historians credit the latter with being 
the more powerful of the two. 33 Another inducement used by 
the colonies to attract settlers was naturalization. In many 
cases letters of naturalization were even issued to aliens in 
England, so that they landed in the colonies with all the rights 
and privileges of British subjects. 34 This was hardly the case 
with the Palatines who, according to a letter of a gentleman 
to the editor of the "Review," declared that they heard nothing 
of the "Act of Naturalization" before they left their country. 
Papers were dispersed among them, however, and fixed on their 
church doors, stating that if they came over into England, the 
Queen would send them over to the plantations. 35 There was 
a great discussion in Parliament over the whole affair, especially 
when it came to ratifying the appropriations for transportation 
and maintenance of these refugees; not only was the Act of 
Naturalization suspected to have been inaugurated "ad casum," 
and anti-immigration laws 36 passed, but it was pretended that 

31 H. V. Todd: Baron Christoph von Graff enried's New Bern Adventures, p. 8. 
82 Cf. Diffenderfer, p. 268. 
13 E. E. Proper: Colonial Immigration Laws, p. 13. 
M /W.,p. 14. 

» Review, No. 49 (July 28, 1709). 

86 Cf. Diffenderfer, p. 270. . . . This is shown by a Proclamation or 
circular issued by the English Government as late as the last day of December, 



Daniel Defoe and the Palatine Emigration 107 

in the whole affair of Palatine immigration there was a hidden 
design of the Whigs against the established Church and to 
increase the number and strength of the dissenters. This view 
would explain somewhat the wholeheartedness with which 
Defoe in this case identifies himself with the attitude of the 
ministry 37 and his strange reluctance in letting the Palatines 
pursue their course to the plantations. It sounds like an 
expression of affection for them when he confesses that he is 
not for sending these people to America for other reasons, 
namely that he is not for parting with them from hence. 88 
Whether he really thought they would in time become a sub- 
stantial aid to his party, or whether an unselfish desire to spare 
them additional misery prompted him to express himself in 
the following way is doubtful: "I am not to tell you why you 
cannot do so (send these poor strangers) to our own island 
colonies, which some people are mighty fond of, regarding rather 
zeal to be rid of the present burden, as they would have it be 
thought, of the refugees, now upon our hands, than either the 
good of the poor people or of the colonies to whom they would 
send them. But in these islands, what shall these poor people 
do? The islands consist of merchants, planters, and servants 
... in either of these capacities you ruin them; if you send 
them to plant, they will starve themselves; if you send them to 
work they will starve the masters." 39 

Defoe had said before that he could not see into the incon- 
venience of sending these poor strangers to the American 
plantations, but personally he preferred to keep them at home, 
that is in England. He proved that she was actually in need 
of people at this time, not only for the increase of trade but for 
the cultivation' of unemployed and waste lands. He proposed 
to settle them in little colonies of about fifty to a hundred 
families in places like New Forrest (Hampshire) Sherwood 

1709, in which further emigration is alluded to, and all persons are absolutely 
prohibited from coming over from Holland under pain of being immediately 
sent back to Germany. 

37 Cf . Diffenderfer, p. 268. ... If after all, the English ministry was 
covertly at work and instigating this exodus, they operated so secretly that 
their fine hand was never discovered. 

38 Review, No. 50 (July 30, 1709). 
"Ibid., No. 51 (Aug. 2, 1709). 



108 Femsemer 

(Nottinghamshire), the Forrest of Dean and similar places. 
If improved by placing people in little colonies, these lands 
would presently become fertile, maintain vast numbers of 
people, and these people be a prodigious increase to England's 
wealth and trade. 4e 

Defoe's schemes for home colonization were not adopted, 
probably because the feeling of the English working classes 
had grown to a dangerous degree of aversion toward the foreign- 
ers, 41 and partly because the Palatines themselves had expressed 
their disappointment at not being sent to the colonies right 
away. Neither was the Christian advice of a certain High 
Churchman, who suggested sending them all to Scotland where 
they could starve to death, followed. 42 With the exception of 
those who had been taken in by private .individuals and had 
found satisfactory employment, they were dispatched in the 
course of the following months to New York and North Caro- 
lina. 43 

Comparatively few found their way to Ireland, 44 the govern- 
ment having issued orders to all mayors, justices of the peace, 
and other magistrates to aid and assist them, so that they 
might be kindly entertained and civilly used in the several 
places upon the road. Their numbers had already materially 
decreased; more than a thousand had died in the encampment 
at Black Heath, and nearly half that number was to perish on 
the seas on their way to America. 45 

It is a story of sorrow and suffering, of strange heroism and 
touching modesty — this story of the Palatine immigration. 

40 Review, No. 47 (July 23, 1709). 

a Ibid., No. 49 (July 28, 1709). "But the humour of the English Working 
People is at this time so averse to Foreigners, that some of them have declared, 
that if they come to work among them, they will be occasion of their deaths; 
and who knows of what consequence such a thing might be to this nation?" 

42 Review, No. 48 (July 28, 1709). 

43 Cf. Kapp, p. 92. So wurden etwa 600 nach North Carolina eingeschifft 
und mehr als 3000 in April 1710 nach New York geschickt. 

44 Cf. Kapp, p. 91. Zuerst 500 Familien, darunter alle Leinenweber, und 
dann noch einmal 800 Personen, im ganzen 3800 Seelen wurden nach Irland 
geschickt um dort die Webereien und zugleich das protestantische Element zu 
heben. See also Diffenderfer, p. 328. 

46 Cf. Diffenderfer, p. 319. 

"3200 were crowded into 10 small ships and set sail in March, 1710. They 
arrived at intervals between June 14 and July 24. 470 perished on the voyage." 



Daniel Defoe and the Palatine Emigration 109 

It could not fail to impress those who witnessed it. As an 
event of political and economical importance for England it was 
bound to arrest the attention of such an expert in those lines 
as Defoe. Therefore he spoke and gave his views on the 
subject with the force of an authority. He made definite sug- 
gestions to his government and people how to face and solve 
this economic problem, which, in the suddenness of its appear- 
ance, looked much like a calamity. When he pleaded for the 
Palatines, begged his countrymen to receive them hospitably, 
and defended them against false accusations, he added to his 
professional interest a note of personal sympathy, which 
quickly enough was seized by his- political opponents as a 
demonstration of his lack of patriotism. 48 When he accused 
his own people of being hard-hearted, proud and hypocritical, 
his party hatred carried him off his feet and his tongue reveled 
in abuse of his high-flying brethren. When he finally wanted 
to keep those stranded foreigners in England he may have had 
party interests in mind, but his reluctance to see them part, 
sounds more like straight-forward sympathy. for those unfor- 
tunate creatures whom he was eager to spare the trials of a 
long and dangerous voyage and the lot that befell most of 
them at their destination. Undoubtedly he knew more about 
conditions in the American colonies than most of his country- 
men and, naturally, more than the immigrants themselves. 
The curious fact that in their imagination North Carolina and 
Pennsylvania figure as "islands" throws some light on the 
geographical conceptions of the time. Their picture of the 
political status of those countries was probably an equally 
vague and incorrect one. "And even in their religious expecta- 

* The Examiner of Sept. 21, 1710, brought a sarcastic attack upon those 
who showed sympathy with the Palatines. The small editorial is entitled 
'Friends and Enemies to their Country' and runs as follows: "Those are enemies 
to their Country who, whether they are uppermost or no, prefer the interest 
of Great Britain before the interest of any other Nation, who are for strengthen- 
ing our fleet, improving our trade, securing our constitution both in Church and 
State, and carefully provide both for the prerogative of the Crown, and for the 
liberties of the subject. But those are the best friends to their country, who 
love a Dutchman, a Palatine, or even a Frenchman, better than a Brittain; 
who if they cannot always rule us will endeavour to ruin us; disparage the suc- 
cess of our arms, labour to sink the public credit, and fairly give us over to the 
French." 



110 Fernsemer 

tions the colonists were often seriously disappointed. For 
altho religious tolerance was one of the prime motives for 
colonization, it is nevertheless a matter of common knowledge, 
that the first colonists did not welcome others differing from 
them in belief." 47 The province of Penn was really the only 
one that came near the fulfillment of the hopes and wishes of 
those religious enthusiasts. 48 When those who survived the 
hospitality.of the English people finally set out for her Majesty's 
plantations, Defoe's heart went out to them. Here the direct 
impression of his experience came to an end. In every capacity 
in which he tried to steer the course of the Palatines his efforts 
had been unsuccessful. With their departure to the colonies 
the whole problem assumed a new character, the possibilities 
of which Defoe was the first to realize. 

II 

The only realm left, however, in which Defoe's schemes and 
hopes for the poor immigrants whom he had befriended might 
come nearer realization was that of the imagination. Through 
this medium alone could he send to the dissenters and perse- 
cuted Christians of all nations the message of a new life of 
religious and political freedom, of liberation from the fetters 
and evils of European over-civilization and of a return to the 
primitive self-reliant state of nature which his German friends 
were now working out in the solitude and in the dangers of the 
primeval forests of the distant colonies. Thus was the poet 
in Defoe awakened. Several years elapsed, however, before 
the effect of the stirring picture of the Palatines' trustful ideal- 
ism and self-inflicted adventure had made upon the artist's 
mind could take a form both intelligible and instructive and, 
above all, entertaining to the public. When, therefore, two 
years later, in 1712, the sober account of the shipwrecked 
sailor aroused widespread interest and stories of adventure 
acquired a sudden popularity, the astute newcomer in fiction 

47 E. E. Proper, p. 13. 

48 Cf. E. E. Proper, p. 54: "Pennsylvania was especially fortunate in this 
respect in having as its founder a man of noble character whose tolerant attitude 
toward all religious faiths and whose generous treatment of settlers from all 
parts of Europe was continued by his successors and became the settled policy 
of the colony."^ 



Daniel Defoe and the Palatine Emigration 111 

could do nothing better than avail himself of a plot in which he 
could be sure the public would be interested. With fine under- 
standing he perceived the similarity in the experiences of the 
shipwrecked sailor and of the emigrants, thrown into the 
desolate wilderness of the distant colonies, and into the simple 
story of Selkirk's adventure he wove the message that was 
destined to be hailed by the poor and heavy laden of all Europe. 

The adventure of Robinson Crusoe, unique as it is, might 
very well be a double of the Selkirk-adventure, written by 
Defoe, as some scholars believe, but that would never be 
Defoe's Robinson Crusoe. We must not lose sight of the fact 
that his work consists of three equally important parts. More- 
over, it will not do to dispose of the "Adventures" and the 
"Serious Reflections" by saying Defoe wrote them because 
Part I was selling well, and that they are nothing but appen- 
dices, more or less boresome. It would be equally foolish to 
claim for them the qualities which have made Part I famous. 
For a serious analysis of "Robinson Crusoe" they are, however, 
by no means a "quantite negligeable." 

In saying, "the moral is never written for the fable; the fable 
is always invented for the moral," 49 Defoe himself gave the 
suggestion that it is to "Serious Reflections," the part so heavily 
laden with the "moral," we must look if we wish to get at the 
backbone of the whole book. As he himself said, Part III is 
"not merely the product of the two first volumes but the two 
first volumes may rather called the product of this." 60 Now 
what Robinson seriously reflects upon is religion. His attitude 
toward the great forces of the universe has undergone marvelous 
changes. It is not so much his actual enounters and travels as 
the big adventure of being alone with himself for a practical 
eternity that has made a sober thinker out of a restless dreamer. 
How the happy-go-lucky, godless, young sailor was re-awakened 
to religious consciousness in the Christian sense will be touched 
upon later; here it is merely intended to point out at what sub- 
limity of religious conceptions the older Crusoe had arrived. 
He achieved the only possible standpoint for the enlightened 
Christian, that of broad tolerance. While his evolution was that 

"R.C., III, Pref. 
"Ibid. 



112 Fernsemer 

of the average pietist, the strange course of his life showed those 
who longed for it a possible way to realise their zeal. 

I have already spoken of the man who helped so many of 
Europe's suppressed idealists and religious enthusiasts by 
bringing them over to the new world. It was, therefore, very 
gratifying to find my expectations as to Defoe's personal 
connections with the leading spirit of English colonization 
in America verified by a statement of Trent's, proving the 
existence of an intimate friendship between the two men as 
early as 1703. At the time of Defoe's imprisonment on ac- 
count of his "Shortest Way," it was William Penn who tried 
to save him from the indignity of the pillory. 61 While Penn 
was a great diplomat, securing the support of all parties and 
succeeding in putting thru his plans, Defoe antagonized people 
by his pen and only achieved the same popularity as his friend 
when he took refuge in fiction. If we take into considera- 
tion the fact that many thousands of Germans who sailed to 
the "Insel Phanien" (as they called Pennsylvania) during the 
18th Century, received their first impulse to emigrate from the 
reading of Robinson Crusoe and its German offspring, the 
"Insel Felsenburg" (1731), 62 we may well ask whether the desire 
to stimulate emigration to Penn's colony was not among the 
purposes which guided Defoe in the conception of the "Life and 
Adventures of Robins Crusoe." Great as was the stimulating 
effect in Germany of such propaganda literature as Pastorius' 
and Falckner's pamphlets on Pennsylvania and Kocherthal's 
book on Carolina, their influence upon the extraordinary Ger- 
man exodus to America was far surpassed by Defoe's Robinson 
Crusoe. With the intuition of the genius its author, a traveller 
and observer of wide experience, had read deeper in the soul of 
the common people of Europe, and of Germany in particular, 
than any of his contemporaries, and the result was a book of 
world-wide and lasting fame and influence. While the effect 
of the literary and aesthetic qualities of Defoe's masterpiece, to 
which critics as a rule assign its popularity, shall not be denied, 
the esential cause of its world success lay in the appeal to the 

« Trent, p. 42. 

B See. A. Kippenberg, Robinson in Deutschland bis znr Insel Felsenburg, 
p. 118. 



Daniel Defoe and the Palatine Emigration 113 

innermost longing of the time after a regeneration and recon- 
struction of human life in all its manifestations, a longing which 
was at the bottom of all religious, political, and economic 
movements of the period. 

There is found one other affiliation of Defoe with a man who 
took an indirect interest in the Palatine movement. This was 
Nathaniel Mist, the Jacobite editor, for whose weekly journal 
Defoe wrote the so-called letters introductory — now termed 
leading articles — during 1717 to 1720. 63 Mist evidently sympa- 
thized with the Palatines as he failed to suppress letters from 
his German correspondents which reflected unfavorably upon 
the interference of the English king in the affairs of the Palatin- 
ate. Mist's correspondents were Papists, Jacobites and enraged 
High Tories, a class of men whom Defoe abhorred. 64 Since it 
was Defoe's business at that time to relieve Mist's weekly of its 
treasonable character and since his personal leanings as a 
protestant coincided with those for which he was paid by the 
Government, he did not hesitate to expose his business-partner 
who refused to be advised. Mist not only lost Defoe's friend- 
ship but also had to go to prison for three months. 65 

This incident serves only as a proof that Defoe's interest in 
the Palatine problem was still alive in the years during which 
the "Serious Reflections" are supposed to have been written. 
On this assumption it is possible to make some sense out of a 
passage such as the following: "In like manner, when in these 
reflections I speak of the times and circumstances of particular 
action done, or incidents which happened in my solitude and 
island life, an impartial reader will be so just to take it as it is, 
namely that it is spoken or intended of that part of the real 
story which the island life is a just allusion to . . . besides all 
this, here is the just and only good end of all parable or allegoric 
history brought to pass, namely for moral and religious improve- 
ment." 68 Here the author of "Robinson Crusoe" once more and 
most emphatically points to the purpose of his work and justifies 
the form in which he has presented it. Moral and religious 

» Trent, p. 150. 
" Lee, p. 271. 
» Lee, p. 347. 
»i?.C.,nl,Pref. 



1 14 Femsemer 

improvement is the end which justifies the means — a tale of 
adventure. 

Although, after due consideration of the material here offered 
in the way of contemporary articles, one is convinced of the 
importance Defoe himself attached to the Palatine movement, 
and is inclined to believe that it was essential to the conception 
of "Robinson Crusoe," it yet remains to point to a number of 
details which, in the light of our theory, lose their accidental 
character and become univocal means for the interpretation of 
the story. It would be foolish to claim for the following chapter 
of strange parallels, as it might be called, the place of infallible 
proofs. The question at once arises, however, why it was that 
Defoe made his hero the son of an immigrant and a German one 
at that. 67 If, as has been claimed, the charm of the novel lies in 
the fact that in the hero of the story we recognize those qualities 
of resourcefulness and practical commonsense that have made 
Great Britain the greatest colonizing power in the world, Robin- 
son Crusoe ought to be a true-born Englishman. His father's 
name, however, used to be Kreutznaer, which as Defoe says 
became by the usual corruption of words in England, Crusoe. 68 

More important, after all, than the man's national descent 
is the social sphere from which he comes. It forms his tastes 
and habits or, in other words, his character. "Defoe nowhere 
endeavors to represent his hero as other than he really is, a 
rather ignorant adventurer of no high character or exceptional 
endowments. An ordinary man in a situation that appeals 
extraordinarily to our sympathy, both man and situation set 
before us so vividly that we are continually asking ourselves: 
would I have thought of that expedient, or saying, that is what 
I should have done?" 59 Others have been pleased to call him 

" R.C., I, 1 . . . my father being a foreigner of Bremen, who settled first 
at Hull. 

68 In trying to trace this name I found a Johannes Creutz amongst the list 
of emigrants Goebel gives in his "Letters of German Emigrants," Jakrbuchder 
deutsch-atnerikanischen Mstorischen Gesellschaft von Illinois, 1912, p. 124 ff. 
This man begs his most serene Highness, the Prince of Nassau Dillenburg to 
be permitted to travel to the so-called island Carolina.* Whether this name 
came to Defoe's attention and in what manner, I do not know. 

*(Goebel: Briefe deutscher Auswanderer aus dem Jahre 1709, p. 39. Brief 
XXXVJ). 

*' W. P. Trent, p. 188. See also H. Hettner, Geschichle der engl. Literatur, 
p. 309 (1872). 



Daniel Defoe and the Palatine Emigration 115 

merely a typical English colonist, commonsense and practical, 
who sets to work with all his ability to make the most he can 
out of existing conditions. 

The emigrants from the Palatinate show many of these same 
characteristics, as is proved by the various character sketches 
which contemporary English writers made of them. Of especial 
interest is the account of an anonymous author in the "Eccle- 
siastical Records of the State of New York" who describes them 
as "a temperate, modest, courteous, industrious, and honest 
people, without the least symptoms of immorality, debauchery, 
or profaneness; cheerful in their calamitous condition, grateful 
in the sense of what has been done for them, and in all things 
demeaning themselves without giving offense or injury to 
anybody."' 

The note of dash, enterprise and independence which we 
naturally miss here, does not come in until quite a bit later 
when they had thrown off the bonds of their first exploiters and 
could, like Crusoe, develop their pioneer instincts unguarded 
and unguided. The early settlers of New York, for instance, 
whose history has so brilliantly been written by Friedrich Kapp, 
could not show what material they had in them, until they 
revolted against Governor Hunter and set out for the beautiful 
Schohary Valley, which the Indians had presented to Queen 
Anne for the express purpose of settling the Germans there. 
Kapp speaks of them as of a useless horde of adventurers and 
rogues as long as Hunter kept them in a state of slavery. Scho- 
hary, however, he calls the most interesting of all German 
settlements in America, because its history can be traced back 
to its very beginnings, and because "it represents — a Robinson- 
ade on a large scale — to us the gradual development of a civilized 
community in its successive advance from dire need to the satis- 
faction of the crudest elementary wants of hunger and need to 
comfort and wealth, to a state of toleration and righteousness, 
to political independence and freedom." 61 

There is one other trait Robinson has in common with the 
German emigrants and which is probably the doubtful heritage 
of his German father, his "Wanderlust" or roving passion. He 

M Ecclesiastical Records of the State of New York, III, p. 1792. 
"Kapp, p. 122. 



1 16 Fernsemer 

calls it a "fateful propension of nature" tending directly to the 
life of misery which was to befall him. 62 Aside from this evil 
influence, which he was unable to control and which first carried 
him away from his father's house, there was also the money- 
making instinct which many, I suppose, would ascribe to his 
English blood. We have come to realize, however, that it is a 
gross prejudice to limit materialistic propensities to the business 
nations of the world. Robinson shares his wild and undigested 
notion of raising his fortune with many who came after him to 
the American shores, whether religion or adventure was their 
official watchword. After acquainting himself with the sugar 
trade in the Brazils, seeing how well the planters lived, and 
how they grew rich suddenly, Crusoe resolves to settle there, 
too, and turn planter. For this purpose he needs a "letter of 
naturalization" such as the Palatines were given before they 
left for the colonies. Like them he also is supplied with all sorts 
of tools, ironwork and utensils necessary for his plantation. 63 

The next point of similarity between the Crusoe and the 
German colonists is their destination. The fact that the coun- 
tries they set out for, though figuring in their minds as "islands," 
were not islands, does not detract from the similarity of their 
existence on them as compared with Robinson's life on his 
geographical island. Although it is not probable that Defoe 
knew of a German settlement at the mouth of the very same 
river where the Robinson-island is supposed to be situated, it 
seems a striking coincidence that it was a Palatine who first 
explored the mouth of the river Orinoco. This man was Georg 
Hohermuth from Speyer, Governor of Venezuela, who as the 
leader of six hundred emigrants, left Spain on October 18, 1534, 
and reached the Venezuelan port of Coro on February 6, 1535. M 

As to the dangers of the island life which Crusoe had to 
face in the form of savages and beasts, we need but turn to the 
history of the Palatine settlers for similar surprises awaiting 
them. Not only were they originally settled on the Hudson with 
the express purpose of forming a barrier against the attacks 
of the French and the Indians, but many an encounter with 
ferocious beasts is recorded. 

"R.C., 1,1. 

M J?.C.,I,40. 

" Cf. Haberle, p. 28. 



Daniel Defoe and the Palatine Emigration 117 

The treatment of the German colonists in the State of New 
York by the English governor puts me in mind of an episode in 
Robinson Crusoe (II) illustrating the intolerant, unkind attitude 
the three Englishmen bore toward their fellow settlers, an atti- 
tude which has its parallel also in the law excluding foreigners 
from the Massachusetts Bay Colony. 65 These three Englishmen 
were part of a mutinous crew, the captain of which was saved by 
Crusoe and who, in turn, undertook to bring him back to Eng- 
land. This opportunity offered itself so suddently and unexpec- 
tedly just after Robinson had sent out an expedition under 
Friday's father and the old Spaniard, who had been captured 
with him, to rescue his countrymen from the Indians and settle 
them on the Crusoe-island, that he did not await their return 
but left a letter with the three English men carrying instructions 
and appointing the old Spaniard as governor of the whole 
colony during his absence. When the expedition returned, the 
three Englishmen, whose number had in the meantime incresaed 
to five by the arrival of two more sailors who escaped Crusoe's 
captain, took a stand wholly indefensible, as they themselves 
were there merely on Crusoe's suffrance. Nothing but the fact 
that they were there first seemed to count with them and justify 
their cruelty. Thus they treated not only the Spaniards, who 
were in the majority, almost as their servants, but denied their 
own countrymen who had come ashore after Crusoe left, almost 
the right of existence. "When the Spaniards came home at 
night he took freedom to reprove the three Englishmen, and 
asked them how they could be so cruel, they being harmless 
themselves, indefensive fellows, and that they were only putting 
themselves in a way to subsist by their labors, and that it had 
cost them a great deal to bring things to such perfection as they 
had. One of the Englishmen returned very briskly: what had 
they to do there that they came on shore without leave, and 
they should not plant or build upon the island, it was none of 
their ground. Why, says the Spaniard very calmly, Seignior 
Inglese, they must not starve. The Englishman replied like a 
true, rough-hewn Tarpaulin, they might starve and be damned. 
They should not plant or build. But what must they do then, 
Seignior? said the Spaniard. Another of the brutes returned, 

« Cf. E. E. Proper, p. 23. 



118 Fernsemer 

"Do! d — n 'em, they should be servants and work for them. 
But how could you expect that of them? says the Spaniard, 
they are not bought with your money; you have no right to 
make them servants. The Englishman answered, the island 
was theirs, the governor had given it to them, and to his com- 
rade he said, "Come, Jack, let us go; we'll demolish their castle, 
I will warrant you; they shall plant no colony in our dominions. 68 

Whatever may have been Defoe's purpose in recounting this 
tale of unusual hardheartedness and unreasonable overbearance 
on the part of the Englishmen, 67 he could not more effectively 
or dramatically have exposed one of the great blunders of early 
colonization. Other authorities have stated the matter no 
less succinctly. "The English Government failed to recognize 
the first principle of a healthy colonial policy. It interfered 
with the independence, the responsibility of its settlers, and 
consequently had to atone for it." 68 "Even when the disas- 
trous outcome of their experiment was apparent, the" colonial 
authorities of New York did not make the best of the situation 
and by liberal grants of land and hospitable treatment aided 
the German immigrants to establish themselves in the provinces; 
on the contrary they grudgingly doled out a mere scrap from 
their vast domain and then refused to protect the settlers in 
their rights after they had spent years of labor on their lands." 69 

Aside from being a clever allusion to real or similar happen- 
ings, the incident about the Spaniard and the Englishmen plays 
a very important part in the structure of the novel. It is here 
that the social factor is first introduced on a larger scale, for 
the life of Crusoe's colonists is vastly different from that of its 
first settler. It is at this point that the reader begins to" wonder 
whether "Robinson Crusoe" will develop into a Utopian story. 
The hero takes a sort of inventory of himself and his achieve- 
ments, which Briiggemann considers a possible basis for an ideal 
state. "My island," the modest confession begins, "was now 
peopled, and I thought myself very rich in subjects; and it 
was a merry reflection which I frequently made, how like a king 

« R.C., II, 46. 

07 "The brutality of the lawless Englishman is much harped on by Defoe in 
many writings" (W. P. Trent). 
M Kapp,96. 
•* Proper, p. 43. 



Daniel Defoe and the Palatine Emigration 119 

I looked. First of all the whole country was my own mere 
property so that I had an undoubted right of dominion. Second- 
ly, my people were perfectly subjected. I was absolute lord 
and lawgiver; they allowed their lives to me and were ready to 
lay down their lives if there had been occasion of it for me." 70 
Nowadays one would call this an amiable confession of a Junker 
"par-excellence." Briiggemann warns the reader not to come 
to a hasty conclusion from this statement, for the ideal which 
Robinson harbors for his colony is to him, as the practical 
Englishman, pre-eminently an economic one. The ideal of 
founding an ideal state in the sense of an Ufopia is by no means 
an impelling factor with him. "It is in accordance with econom- 
ic considerations that Robinson takes back with him not only 
ample supplies, but also colonists which are chosen with an eye 
to their skill as artisans."' 1 

Furthermore, I should venture to say that even the econom- 
ic outlook is of secondary importance to Robinson Crusoe. 
His warmest interests are devoted to the ethical element. 
More important than the political and economic aspects of his 
plantation are to him the religious principles by which he wishes 
the spiritual life of his islanders conducted. So he modifies his 
autocratic aspirations immediately by announcing the most 
liberal policy in religious matters. "It was remarkable, too, 
we had but three subjects and they were of three different 
religions. My man Friday was a protestant, his father a pagan 
and a canibal, and the Spaniard was a Papist. However, I 
allowed liberty of conscience thruout my dominions." 72 Thus 
Crusoe does not attempt the foundations of an ideal state, but 
only insists on making the island sife for religious equality. 
This full-fledged religious freedom changes the island from what 

U R.C, I, 272. 

" Briiggemann, p. 102. "I carried two carpenters, a smith and a very 
handy ingenious fellow, who was a cooper by trade, but was also a general 
mechanic; for he was dexterous at making wheels and handmills to grind corn, 
was a good turner, and a good pot maker. He also made anything that was 
proper to make of earth or of wood; in a word, we called him our jack-of-all- 
trades. With these I carried a tailor who consented to stay on our new planta- 
tion, and proved a most necessary handy fellow as could be desired in many 
Other businesses besides that of his trade; for as I observed formerly, necessity 
arms us for all employments." R.C., II, p. 12. 

n R.C., I, 272. 



120 Fernsemer 

the exile might have been to Crusoe's colonists into what 
Defoe calls an asylum, a place of rest, where one may call one's 
soul one's own. 

Here another point of parallel with the Palatines suggested 
itself; the interdependence of their relation to God in the dif- 
ferent phases of their adventure. As with Crusoe there was a 
long time during which he was indifferent toward God and 
religion, until sickness one day extorted the first prayer from 
his lips, so the Palatines — little as they may be blamed for it — 
were at the beginning of their colony life, while under English 
rule, anything but exponents of Christian virtue. 73 Not until 
thru the sufferings which the immigrants in both cases had to 
pay for their self-enfranchisement, was their religious self 
re-awakened, nor did they come into the blessings of their self- 
imposed sacrifice. This re-awakening or second conversion to 
Christianity under the influence of solitude is one of the most 
beautiful passages of the book. 74 

Solitude thus becomes the means to spiritual happiness and 
peace. Though eager to make his first fellowman in this new 
existence a disciple of his own creed, Robinson keeps his Chris- 
tianity pure but respects the confessors of other convictions for 
their sincerity. Robinson-Defoe goes so far in spiritual self- 
denial that he makes even a French Popish priest the spokes- 
man of the highest religious principles. "I had here a spirit 
of true Christian zeal for God and religion before me," 75 he 
says of this man. The sincere young Catholic displays unusual 
broadmindedness but the arch-dissenter improves on this. 
"It presently occurred tOvme that if such a temper was universal 
we might be all Catholic Christians whatever church or parti- 
cular profession we joined to or joined in; that a spirit of charity 
would soon work us all up into right principles and in a word as 
he thought that the like charity would make us all Catholics, 

" Cf . p. 34. 

74 R.C., I, 108. . . . "It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much 
more happy this life I now lived was, with all its miserable circumstances, than 
the wicked, cursed, abominable life I led all the past part of my days . . . from 
this moment I began to conclude in my mind that it was possible for me to be 
more happy in this forsaken, solitary condition, than it was probable I should 
ever have been in any other particular in the world, and with this thought I 
was going to give thanks to God for bringing me to this place.' 

» R.C., II, 132. 



Daniel Defoe and the Palatine Emigration 121 

so I told him I believed had all the members of his church the 
like moderation they would soon be all protestants." 76 It is no 
wonder that Defoe was possessed by the question of religious 
tolerance for it was not only the fatal crux of his own life but of 
the century in which he lived. 

Although England became by name the acknowledged pro- 
tector of religious freedom and protagonist of protestantism, 
it was mostly on German soil that the battle was fought. Not 
only "Robinson Crusoe" but the "Memoirs of a Cavalier," 
"Colonel Jack," bristle with allusions to the religious wars on 
the continent, and the blood-soaked valleys and plains of 
Germany seem to be ever before the writer's imagination. 
"What wars and bloodshed molested Europe on the account of 
religion in Germany." 77 Since Defoe had displayed such 
interest in the Palatine immigration of 1709 and 1710, his 
views, ten years later, on the state of religion in Prussia and 
Saxony as expounded in his "Serious Reflections," seemed 
especially interesting and pertinent to our subject. It is 
another indication that the novelist's historical background 
was not limited to the accounts of shipwrecked sailors and 
adventurers, or to the calamities of his own life, when he wrote 
"Robinson Crusoe," but that his creative mind was burdened 
with those unspeakable conditions under which so many of his 
protestant brethren in Germany suffered and which led many 
of them to desert their fatherland. To the old gentlewoman 
who asks Robinson Crusoe, "Pray, Sir, is not religion the princi- 
pal business of mankind in all the parts of the world?", he 
answers despondently, "Really, Madam, I can not say it is; 
because what with ignorance on one hand, and hypocrisy on the 
other, 'tis very hard to know where to find religion in the 
world." 78 

It is here, where, in my opinion, Defoe's propagandism 
becomes most effective. His criticism of the deplorable state 
of religious and political freedom in Europe in contrast to the 
ideal condition which Robinson had created on his island was 
bound to arouse the desire to emigrate to the land of promise. 
Passing review over all the nations of the earth he had visited 

n R.C., II, 149. 
" R.C., III, 158. 
"R.C..UI, 143. 



122 Femsemer 

on his travels in search for "religion" and those he had read 
about, making many a brilliant remark and capital charac- 
terization of them, he also turns to the Lutherans of 
Germany, especially among the courts and cities of Branden- 
burg, Saxony, etc. Here he had opportunity to view a court 
affecting gallantry, magnificence, and gay things,, to such an 
extent, and with such a passion, as to exceed the whole world in 
that empty part of human felicity called display. Nor was his 
notion wrong, for the first thing he found sacrificed to this 
voluptuous humour was the liberties of the people, who being 
by constitution or custom rather under absolute government, 
and at the arbitrary will of the prince, are sure to pay, not all 
they can spare, but even all they have, to gratify the unbounded 
appetite of a court given up to pleasure and exorbitance. . . . 
How far poverty and misery may prompt piety and devotion 
among the poor inhabitants, he cannot say, but if luxury and 
gallantry, together with tyranny and oppression to support it, 
can subsist with true religion in the great men, then the courts 
of Prussia and Dresden may be the best qualified in the world 
to produce this thing called religion, which, he has hitherto 
seen, was hard to be found. 79 Notwithstanding what he has 
said, Defoe eulogizes King Frederick William and concludes, 
"a government may be tyrannical, and yet the King not be a 
tyrant." But he can not see the religion of it all. "And where 
pray is the religion of all this? That a whole nation of people 
should appear miserable, that their governors may appear gay. 
The people starve, that the prince may be fed, or rather the 
people be lean, that their sovereign may be fat; the subjects 
sigh, that he may laugh; be empty that he may be full; and all 
this for mere luxury, not for the needful defense of the govern- 
ment — resisting enemies, preserving the public peace, and the 
like, but for mere extravagance, luxury and magnificence as in 
Prussia; or for ambition and pushing at crowns, and the lust 
of domination, as in Saxony." 80 Who would not leave the 
dearest a human being has, his native soil, and endure the 
privations of a foreign country rather than stand the humilia- 
tion of a tyrant? Whether the emigrants came from Prussia 

'• R.C., III, 144. 
">Ibid., Ill, 145. 



Daniel Defoe and the Palatine Emigration 123 

or Saxony, Suabia 81 or Bavaria matters little; to the Palatinate 
clings the name of this enormous movement as we are best 
informed about its political, religious, and economic conditions 
of that time. 

Doubly distressing, however, is the tragedy when the 
colonist finds conditions in the land to which he emigrated as 
depressing as, or worse than at home. This had happened 
in the case of the Protestant Dissenters of North Carolina. 
The pamphlets which Defoe hurled against that law "so ridicu- 
lous, so partial, so calculated for the ruin of the Colony that 
nothing but bad men that depended upon being superior in 
power to all human authority, the people should apply to, 
would have ever brought upon the stage of the world ... a 
law that has the impudence to declare war against the Christian 
religion" 82 offered an opportunity for sharpening his pen for 
future attacks on the religious liberties of the Dissenters, in his 
own as well as in foreign countries. 

Tolerance is the center around which Defoe's thoughts 
move, and tolerance, especially religious tolerance, is the key- 
note of Robinson Crusoe's reflections. Tolerance, again, both 
political and religious, but mainly the latter, was one of the 
bright beacon lights which guided numberless German emi- 
grants on their way across the ocean during the latter part of 
the Seventeenth and the first half of the eighteenth centuries. 

That the principle of freedom of thought and conscience, 
the essence of true Christianity, for which Defoe had fought 
and suffered so much had not been realized in the early Ameri- 
can colonies he was well aware, for he says: "America is 
thronged with Christians, God wot, such as they are; for I 
must confess the European inhabitants of some of the colonies 
there, as well French and English as Spanish and Dutch, very 
ill merit the name." 

It was the great exodus of Palatines which, as we have seen, 
revealed to Defoe first the power of the ideal impulse for liberty 
that lived in these people and gave them the courage and 

81 Cf. Kapp, p. 75. In 1709, the first mass emigration from Suabia to 
America took place, in 1717 the second one; from now on it continued during 
the whole century. In 1757, 6000 Wiirtembergers emigrated in a body. 

81 Party Tyranny, or' The Case of the Protestant Dissenters in North Carolina, 
p. 25. 



124 Fernsemer 

strength to face unspeakable hardships, distress and dangers 
in the hope of finding the realization of their dream. With 
indelible colors this picture had inscribed itself into Defoe's 
soul, arousing there the best which life-long struggles and think- 
ing had matured. The "Serious Reflections," above all, 
bear witness to the heights of wisdom, of political foresight and 
of serenity of thought to which he had risen with the advance of 
age. Following the poet to these heights we are able to deci- 
pher the picture language of the Robinson story, describing a 
new commonwealth built by individual and communal effort 
and pervaded by the spirit of freedom and tolerance, a common- 
wealth in search of which the Palatines had sailed across the 
ocean. 

O. F. W. Fernsemer 
Oscoda, Mich. 



