Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



r 



' ):^:^^: 



0'^^ 



'fp^r^'^ 



■f 




.... .^ . iSSAT * 




^' - ■ 



..Google 



!| 



- GcKlgJl 



Hosted by Google 



L GooqIl 



THE 

L I F B 

AndStfangs Surpriilng 

ADVENTURES 

O F 

Robinson Crusoe, 

Of rORK, Mariker: 
Who ]ived eifilit and twenty Years all alone 

in an un-inhaMted Ifland on the Coaft of .-(wfr/.-, 
near ilie Mouth of the Great River Omnmt; ha- 
ving been can on Shore by Shipwreek, wherein all 
the Men perillied but himielf. 
With an A C C O U N T how he was at laH as II, 
1/ deliver'd by p Y R A T E S. 



I^rittcf, fy nimfdf. 



I The SIXTH EDITION Adorned with Culsl^ 



In Two VOL. 




i OIVZXJW; Printed for B'. T»,;,r, at the. a,> and I 

Eloik-Swan, in Pat^r-N,Ji^r-R.w. MDCCXXII. / P<S'^* 



j,Google 




PREFACE. 



IF ever the Story of any frivate 
Min's AdventKres in the 
Hurld zvere vjorth m^'iking Fuh- 
liik, and Ivere acceptable when 
'TuMi/h'd, the Editor of this Ac- 
count thinks this zuill be fi. 

The Wonders of this Mans 
Life exceed all thai (he thinks) is 
to be found extant ; the Life of one 
M.an bem^ jcarce capable of a 
£re-iier Variety. 

The Story is told zvith Mode fly, 
' zvith Serieiifnejs, and zvith a reli- 
gious Afflication of 'Events to the 
V(es to zvhich zvij'e Men alioajs 
apply them (viz ) to the Injlruitton 

flfoogle 



The Pr E F AC E. 

of others by this Exitmfle, and to i 
jufiify "n^ honour the Wisdom of \ 
Providence in all the Variety of 
our Circumfiances, let them hap- 
pen hozv they will. ^ 
The Editor believes the things, \ 
to he ajuft Hifiorj of Fad; nei- 
ther is there any u4fpearance of] 
FiHion in it ; tAnd however , 
thinks, becau-fe aH fuch Thing; are ', 
dtjputed, that the Improvement of '• 
it, as zvell to the Diverjion, as to 1 
the JnflruClion of the Reader, zvill \ 
he the fame; and as fuch, he thinks, • 
without farther Compliment to the 
World, he does them a great Ser- 
vice in the Publication. 






THE 

«r^d by Google 




THE 



LIFE 



k 



DVENTURES 



Robinfon Crufoe, 8cc. 

IWaehorn in the Year i6^i, in the City 
I ofTri', of a good Familv, tho' not of 
j that Country, my Father being a' fo- 
] rtigner of" Bremen, who fettled firft at 
fiuB He got a good Eftate by Merchar- 
' due, and leaving olF his Trade, lived 

1 afterwards at Trt, from whence he liad married my 
i^ other, whofe Relations were named Ribinf.n, a verV 
good Family in that Country, and Irom w'hom I was 
called Robinj-m Kreat^natr ; but by the ufiul Corrupti- 
on of Words in fin^/a-j^, we are now call" d, nay, we 
^11 our lelves, aiid write our Name Crufce, and fo mf 
Companions always call'd me. 

B 




Ogle 



I had two elder Brothers, one of which was LieuS 
tenant Colonel to nn Eri^lijh Regiment of Foot in Fl/m-. 
4trs, formerl/ commanded by the famous Col. Locl^hait, 
and was killed at the Eattla near Dunkirk againll the 
Spaniards; What became ol my Second Brother I ne- 
ver knew, any niore than my Father or Mother did 
know what was become of me. 

Being the third Son of the Family, and not bred to 
any Tra de, my Head began to be iill'd very early with 
rambling Thoughts; My Father, who wae very anci- 
ent, had given ma a competent Share of Learning, as far 
as Houfe- Education, and a Country Free- School generally 
goes,. and defign'd me for the Law ; but I would be 
iatisfy'd with nothing but going to Sea j and my Incli. 
nation to this led me fo ftrorgly againft the Will, nay 
the Commands of my Father, and againft al! the En- 
treaties aiid Perfwalions of my Mother and other 
Friends, that there feemed to be fomething fatalin that 
Propenfion ofNatui'e tending direSly to the Life of 
Milery which was to bcfal me. 

My Father, a wile and grave Man, give mc ferious 
and excellent Counfel againll what he fore-faw was my 
Defign. He called me one Morning into bis Chamber, 
where he was confined by the Gout, and ejtpoftulated 
very warmly with me upon this Subjeft : He ask'd me 
what Reafons more than a meer wandring Inclination 
I liad for leaving my Fathra's Houfe and my native 
Ceuiitry, where \ might be well introduced, and had 
3 Profpeift: ofraifing my Fortune by Application and 
Induftry, with a Lift of Eafe and Ploaliire : He told me 
it wai. ro,r Men of defperate Fortunes on one Hand, or of 
aipiring, fuperiour Fortunes on the other, and who went 
abroad upon Adventures, to rife by Enterpriie, and 
make themfelvcs famous in Undertakings of a Nature 
cut of the common Road ; that thefe things were all ei- 
ther too far above m^ or too far below me ; that niino 
was the middle State, or what might be called the up- 
per Station of Zm Life, which he had found by long 
feijperience was the .bell State tn the World ; the moft 
iiiiced to human Happinefs, not expofed to the Miferies 
and HardOiips, the Labour and SuffijringE pf the me- 
chanickTart o\ Mankind^ and not embarals'd with the 
Pridej 



■ogk- 



^^^ ^ i;-^ — 

Pride, Linury, Ambition and Envy of the Upper Part 
of Mankind. HetoM me, I might judge of tlie HappL- 
nefs of'ihis State, by this one thing, vi^. That this 
ivas the State of Life ivhich ail other People envied ; 
that Rings have frequently lamented the miferable 
Confequencesof l»ing horn to great Things^ and wilh'd 
they had been placed in the middle of the two Extremes, 
between the Mean and the Great ; that the wile Man 
gave his Ttftimony to this as the juft Standard of true 
Felicity, ivhen he prayed to have neither Poverty or 
Riches. 

He bid me obferve it, and I ftiould always find, that 
the Calamities of Life were Ihar'd among the upper and 
lower Part of Mankind; but that. the middle Station 
had the ieweft Difafters, and was not expos'd to fa 
many VicifRtudes as the higher or lower Part of Man- 
kind ; nay, they were not lUbjeifted to fo many Diltem- 
pers and UneafineBes either td Body or Mind, as thole 
were, who by vicious Living, Luxury and Extravagan- 
ces on one Hand, or by hard Labour, want of Ne^cf- 
faries, and mean or infuiKcient Diet on the other Hand, 
bring Diftempers upon themfelves by the natural Confe- 
quences of their Way of Living; Ilmt the middle Sta- 
tion of Life was calculated for all Kind of Virtues, and 
all Kind of Enjoyments ; that Peace and Plenty wera 
the Handmaids ol'a middle Fortune ; that Temperance, 
Moderation, Quietnefs, Health, Society, all agreeable 
Diveriions, and all deiirable Pleafures, were the Blei^" 
fings attending the middle Station of JLife ; that tliis way 
Men went filently and fmoothly thro' the World, and 
comfortably ourtjf it ; not embarafs'd with the Labours 
ofthe Hands or ot'the Head, not fold to a Life'of ^U- 
very for daily Bread, or liarrafs'd with perplexed Cir- 
cumftances, which rob the Soul of Peace, and the Body of 
Reft ; nor enraged with the Paifion of Envy, or the fecreC 
burning Lufl oi' Ambition for great things; but in ea- 
fy Circumftances Hiding gently thro' the World, and 
Cenfibly tailing the Sweetsof Living, without the Bitter, 
feeling that they are happy, and learning by every day's 
Experience to know it more fenfibly. 

After this, he prefs'd me earneftly, and in the moil 
affcftionate manner, not to play theyourgMan, nortiv 
I B 3 prcci.- 

', I Google 



(4) 



precipitate my felfinto Mileries which Nature and the 
acationot'Ltiel was born in, leem'd to have provided 
againft ; that I was under no Neceffity of fcekirg my 
Lread ; that he would do well for nie, and endeavour 
to enter me fairly into the Station of Life which lie had 
lieen juft recommending tome; and thatif I was not ve- 
ry eaiy and happy in the World, it mull be my meer 
tate, or Fault that mull hinder it, and that he ihould 
have nothing to anlwer for, having thus dilcharged his 
Duty in warning uie againft Mealiires which he knew 
would be to my hurt : In a word, that as he would do 
very kind things tor me if 1 would ftaj- and fettle at 
Home, as he direiled ; fo he would not have lb much 
hand in my wislortunes, as to give me any Encourage- 
ment to go away; And to dole all, he told me, I had 
my elder firotber for an Example, to whom he had ufed 
tha fame earnell l-erfwafions to keep hini Iri^m going 
into the Low Country Wars, but could not prevail, 
his young Di-fires prompting himio tun into the Army, 
where he waskilled ; and tho' he laid he would not ceafe 
to pray for me, yet he would ventureto i'uy to me,that if 
1 did take this tooliih Step, God would nut blels me, 
and I would have Leifure hercaiter to reflcii upon hav- 
ing neglcifted bis Couiifcl, when there might be none 
to allift in my Recovery, 

. I obierved in this laft part of his Difccurfe, which 
\yas truly Prophetick, tho' I litppofe my Father did not 
know it to be fo himrell ; I fay, I oblerv'd the Tears 
run down his Face very pkntKuIly, efpecially when 
he fpqke of my Brother who was killed ; and that when 
he (poke of my having Leifure to repent, and ron« to 
affiift me, he was lo mov'd, that he broke off" the Dii; 
courfe, and told me, his Heart was lb full, he could lay 

I was fmcerely afFefted with this Difcourfe, as in- 
deed who could be otherwile? and I refolv'd not to 
think of going Abroad any more, but to fettle at Home 
according to my Father's Delire : But alas ! a few Da>s 
wore it alloff j and in ftiort, to prevent any of my Fa.^ 
ther's farther importunities, in a tewWeeks afterlrelblv-' 
ei to run quite away from him. However, I did not aft. 
fp haftily neither as the firll heat of myRelolution promp-" 



Google 



(5) 

e<3) but T took m>' Mother at a time when I thought 
her a little pleafanter than ordinary, and told her, tnac 
my Tlioughcs were lb enlirely bent upon feeing the 
World, that 1 ihouid never letcle to any thing with Re- 
Iblution enciigh to go through with it, and my Father 
had better give me his Conlent, than tbrce me Co go 
without it; rhati was now eighteen Years old, which 
was too iats to go Apprentice to a Trade, or ('letk to 
an Attorney ; that 1 was lure, if 1 did, 1 ihouid never 
ferve out my Time, but i Ihjuld certainly run away 
from my Mafter before my Time was out, and go to 
Sea ; and if Ihe would fpeak to my Father to let me go 
one Voyage abroad, ifl came home again and did not 
like it, I would go no more, and 1 wuuld promile by a 
double Diligi;nce to recover the Time tha 1 1 had lort, 

This put my Mother into a great Paifion : She cold 
nie, Jhc knew it would be to no purpoie to fpeak to my 
Father upon any liich Subjeit i that he knew too well 
what was my Interefl, to give bis Confent to any 
thing To much for my Hurt, and that Ihe wondered how 
1 could think of any fuch thing, after tJie Dilcourlb 
1 had had with my Father, and iii;h kind and ten- 
der Exprellions as ihe know my Father had uled to m- ; 
and that in ftiort, ifl would ruin my felf, there was no 
help for me ; but 1 might depend I ftiould never havo 
their Confent to it : Tliat lor her part ihe would not 
have To much hand in my Deftruilion ; and I ihould 
never have it to fay, tliat my Mother was willing when 
my Father was not. 

Tho' my Mother refufed to move it to my Father, 
Jet, as I heard afterwards, that ihe reptnccd ai! the 
Difcourle to him ; and that my Father, alter ih;wi;i^a 
great Concern at it, iaid to lier with a Sigh, That Bov 
thight be happy it' he would ftay at Home, but if he 
goes Abroad, he will be the moft milerableft Wretcli 
that ever was born i I can give no Confent to it. 

It was not till almoft a Vear atter this that [ broke 
loofe, tbo" in the mean time I continued obftinately 
deaf to all Propufals of fettling to Bufinefs, and frequent- 
ly cjcpollulating with my Father and Mother, about 
their being fo politively determin'd againft what they 
knew my IncUnations prompted nie tj. But being one 
B 3 Day- 



Google 



(O 

Day at HuB, where I went cafuaHy, and without any 
purpoft of malting a'n Elopement that tinic j but i fa/, 
being thercj and one of my Companions being going 
by Sea to Liridm in his Father's Sliip, and prompting 
me to go with them, with the common Allurement of 
5eafarirg Men, v'z- That it iliould cod me nothing for 
my Paflage, I conlulted neither Father or Mother any 
more, nor lb much as Tent them word of it } but leav- 
ing them to hear of it as they might, without asking 
Cod's BleiTiftg, or my Father's, without any Confide- 
rationof Circumftancrsor Confequences, and in an ill 
Hour, God know^ on the firft of September 1S51, I 
went on Board a Ship bound for London : Never any 
joung Adventurer's Misfortunes, I believe, began foon- 
*r, or continued longer than mine : The Ship was no 
Iboner gottenoutoftbeH«>»6er, but the Wind began to 
blow, and the Sea to rile in a moll frightful manner ; 
pnd as I had never been at Sea before, I was mod inex- 
preffibly fick in Body, and terrify'd in Mind : I Ixgati 
now lerioutly to reilsA upon what I bad done, and how 
jullly i was overtaken by thejudgment of Heaven for my 
wicked leaving my Father's Houfe, and abandoning my 
Duty; alUhe good Counfelofmy Parents, my Father's 
Tears, and my Mother's Entreaties came now frefh into 
my Mind, and my Confcience, which was not yet come 
to the Pitch of Hardnefs to which it has been fince, re- 
proach'd me with the Contempt of Advice, and the 
breacb of my Duty to God and iny Father. 

All this whiln the Storm enereas'd, and the Sea, whidi 
I had never been upon before, went very high, though 
nothing like what I have feen many rimes fince ; no, 
not like what 1 favv a few Days after : But it was enough 
to affift me then, who was but a young Sailor, and had 
never knownany thing pf the matter, I expefted every 
Wave would have fwallowed us up, and that every time 
the Ship lei! d»wn as I thought it did, in the Trough or 
Hollow of the Sea, we Jhould never rile more ; In this 
Agony of Mind, \ made many Vows and Refolutions, 
that if it would pleale God to fpare my Life in this 
one Voyage, if ever I got once my Foot upon dry Land 
Again, I would go directly home to my Father, and ne- 
ver fet it into a Ship again while 1 lived ; that I would ' 
take 



(7) 

take hbAdvice, and never run my felf into fudi MKs- 
ries as ttiefe any more. Now I faw plainly the Good- 
nefs of bis Obfervations about the middle Station of Life, 
how eafy, how comfortable he had lived all his Days, and 
never had been espofed to Tempefts at Sea, or Troubiei 
■onShore;andinfliort Irefolv'd that I wouldj like a true 
penting Prodigal, go home to nty Father. 

.Thele wile and fober Thoughts continued all the 
while the Storm continued, and indeed Ibme time after; 
but the next Day the Wind was abated and the Sea cal- 
nierj and I began to be a little inur'd to it : However, 
I was very grave for all that Day, being alio a little Sea- 
ftck ftil] i but towards Night the Weather dear'd up, 
the Wind was quite over, and a charming fine Evening 
follow'd i the Sun went down pertccily clear, and roS 
fo the next Morning, and having little or no Wind, ani 
a fmooth Sea, the Sun ihining upon it, the Sight was, 
as I thought, the moll delightful that ever I faw. 

I had (lept well in the Niglit, and was now no more 
Sea-Jick, but very ehearful; looking with wonder upon 
the Sea'that was fo rough and terrible the Day befor^ 
andcouldbe fo calm and fo pleafancin fo littk time af- 
ter. And now left my good Refolulioiis fliould conti- 
nue, my Companion, who had indeed enticed me away, 
conies to me, iVell Bob, fays he, clapping n;e upon the 
Shoulder, H n Jo you Ac after it ? 1 w^rant, ycu vera 
f'''Xl>teii, wa'n't you, laji Ni£bl, when it bieva hut a Cap 
fullofmnd? A Cap fuB d;ym call it ! laid I, 'tw»sater- 
rible Stcrm : A Stotm^ynu Feti ji,~u, replies he, d: yeu 
tall that a Storm., vibj-itjoas nothtng at aS; give lis i«f 
'a good Ship, aiiil Sia-roow, and viif tbink tsotbing of facb ' 
a Squml iflfind as that ; butyou'rebut a freih WaterSkihr, 
Bob ■■ ccike let us make a Bevil of Punch, and vje^llf' rvtt 
a!! that; d'ye fee what charming Wetther 'tis nc-wr To 
moke Ih-jrt this fad Part of my Story, we went the way 
■ol'all Sailors, the Punch was made, and I was made half 
drunk with it, and in that one Night's Wickednefs t 
drown'd all my Repentance, all my RcfleiSiuns upon my 
yaft Conduft, all my Refolutions for the future. In a 
Word, as the Sea was return'd to its fmpothnefs of Sur- 
face and let'tled Calmnefs by the abatement of that 
5torm, fo the Hurry of my Thoughts being over my 



,3le 



1 



(8 ) 

Fears and Apprelienfions ot lieing livallow'd up by Sea 
being toigotccn, and the Current ol my former Deliies 
rcturn'd, t entirely tbrgot the Vows and t-romites that 
1 made in my Dilircfs. i tound indeed ibme Intervals 
ot Refleftion, and t}ie lerious ThougliCs did, as it were, 
endeavour to return again Tome times ; but 1 ihuok them 
off, and rouz'd my lelt'lroni them aa it were trom a 
Diltemper, and applying my felf to Drinking and Com- 

fany, loon mailer "d the Return of thole tits, { tor lb 
caird themj and I had in five or lix Days got as com- 
pleat a Viftory over Conlcience, as any young Vellow 
that relblv'd not to be troubled with it, eouid defive : 
Eut i was to have another Trial for it ftill ; and Pro- 
vidence, as in liicb Cales generally it dees, relolvM to 
leave me entirely without excufe; For if 1 would not 
take this for a Deliverance, the next was to be liich a 
one, as the worft and moll harden'd W retch among us 
would contcls both the Danger and the Mercy. 

The fijith Day of our being at Sea, we came into 
TarmaatO Roads; the Wind having been contrary, and 
the Weather calm, vfe had made but little Way fince 
the Storm. Here we were oblig'd to come to an Anchor, 
knd here we hy, the Wind continuing contrary, vi^. 
wt South-Weft, for feven or eight Days, during wbicb 
time 3 great many Ships from Ntwc^ih came into the 
lame Roads, as tlie common Harbour where the Ships 
might wait for a Wind for the River, 

Wc had not however rid here fo long, but we ITiould 
have Tided it up the River, but that the Wind blew too 
freali ; and after we had lain four or five Days, blew 
very hard. However, the Roads being reckoned as 
good asa Harbour, the Anchorage good, and our Ground- 
■Tackle very ftrong, our Men were unconcerned, and 
not in the leaft apprehenfive of Danger, but fpent the 
Time in Reft and Mirth, after the manner of the Sea ; 
but the eighth Day in the Morning, the Wind increafed, 
and we had all Hands at work to ftrike our Top-Maas, 
and make every thing fnug and clofc, that the Ship 
might ride as ealy as poffible. By Noon the Sea went 
very high Indeed, and our Stiip rid Fa/ecujiU in> Ship- 
ped feveral Seas, and we thought once or twice our An- 
chor had ccme Home ; upon vvhicU our Maftsi ordcr'd 



, Google 



(O 



out the Sheet- Anchor; lb that we rode with two An- 
chors a-head, and the Cables veredoiittothe b.tlerEnd. 

By this Time it blew a terrible Stiirm indeed, and 
now I began to lee Terror and Amaiemcnl in the Faces 
even of the Seamen themlelyes. The Mailer, tha' vi- 
gilant in the Bulinefs of preferving the Ship, >et as he 
went in and out of his Cabin hj" me, [ could hear him 
ioltly to hinilelf lay leveral times. Lord be mct'lul to usy 
■mejhall be all lafl, ree Jhall be all undctie ; a nd the like: 
During thefe iirll Hurries, t was ftupid, lying ftill in my 
Cabin, which was in the Steerage, and cannot delcribe 
m>' Temper : 1 could ill refume the iirll Penitence whicli 
i had lb apparently trampled upon, and tiarden'd my 
felt'againft-" I thought the Bitternels oC Death had been 
pad, and that this would be nothing too, like the firft. 
But when the Mailer himfelf came by me, as I laidjull 
now. and Taid we Ihould be all loft, I was dreadtully 
frighted: I got up out of my CaWn, and look'd outj 
but l'u?h a difinal Sight \ never faw: The Sea went 
Mountains high, and broke upon us every three on four 
Minutes: When I could look about, 1 could fee no- 
thing but Dillreis round us: Two Ships that rid near- 
us, we found, had cut their Mafts by the Board, being 
deep loader ; and our Men cry'd out, that a Ship which 
rid about a Mile a-head of us, was founder'd. TwQ 
more Ships being driven Irorti their Anchors, were run 
out of the Roads to Sea, at all Adventures, and that not 
with a Maft ftanding. The light Ships fared tke bell, 
as not fo much labouring in the Sea ; but two or three 
oftheiadfove, and came dole by us, running away with, 
unly their Spiit-Jail out, before the Wind. 

Towards Evening the Mate and Boatfwain begg'd 
the Mafter of our Ship to let them cut away the Fore- 
Maft, which he was very unwilling, to : But the Boat- 
fwain protefting to him, that if he did not, the Sbi[> 
would founder, he confented ; and when they had cut 
away the Fore-maft, the Main-maft flood fo looie, and 
ihook the Ship, lb much, they were obliged to cut hcc 
away alfo, and make a clear Deck. 

Any one may judge what a Condition I moil be in, 

at all this, who was but a young Sailor, and who had 

bim in luch a Fright before at but a little. But if X 

B 5 ' caa 



r 



, Google 



) 



('O 

can exprefs at this diftancc the Thoughts I had abotit 
me at that time, I was in tt-nfold more Horror of Mind 
upon account of my form sr Con viftions, and the hav- 
itrg returned from them to the Refolutions I had wio 
kedly taken at firft, than I was at Death itfelf ; and 
thete, added to the Terror oFthe Storm, put nie in fuch 
a Condition, that I can by no Words deibrihe it. But 
the ivorft was not come yet; the Storm continued with 
fiich Fury, that the Seamen themfelves acknowledged 
they had never known a worfe. We had a good Ship, 
But fhe was deep loaden, and wallowed in the Sea, that 
the Seamen every now and then cried out, flie would 
founder. It was my Advantage in one refpeft, that I 
did not know what they meant by founder, till I en. 
guir'd. However, the Storm was fo violent, that I faw 
■what is not often ken, the Mailer, the Boatfwain, and 
feme others more Tenfible than the reft, at their Pray- 
ers, and expefting every moment when the Ship would 
go to the Bottom. In the middle of the Night, and 
under ail the reft of our Diftreffes, one of the Men thai 
had been down on purpole to fee, cried out we had 
fprunj^a Leak; another fa id, there was four Foot Wa- 
ter in the Hold. Then all Hands were called to the 
Pump. At that very Word my Heart, as I thought, 
'^ied within me, and I fell backwards upon the iide of 
*ny Bed where I fat, into the Cabin. However, the 
Jlcn rouz'd me, and told me, that I that was able to 
A} nothing before, was as well able to pump as anotlier ; 
at which I ftirr'd up, and went to the Pump, aud 
innrVd very heartily. Wkilc this was doing, the Ma- 
iler ieeing fome light Colliers, who, no» able to ride out 
th* Storm, were ohlig'd to flip and run away to Sea, 
4nd would come near us, order d to fire a Gun as a Sig- 
iial of Diftrefs. 1 who knew nothing what that meant, 
Was fo furprized, that I thought the ship had broke, or 
fume dreadful thing happened. In a word, I was fo 
furprized, that 1 fell down in a Swoon. As this was ft 
«ime when every body had bis own Lite to thick oi, no 
body minded me, or-what was become of me ; but an- 
other Man (lept up to. the Pump, and thrufting me afide 
with his Foot, let me lie, thinking I had been dead j 
aild it tvas 3 great vvtiile befute I catnc to my felf. 



Google 



.y Google 




, Google 



( 'O 

We work'd on, hit the Water encreafing in tTieWold, 
it was apparent that the Ship would tounder j and tho' 
the Storm began to abate a little, yet as it was not pof- 
lible fhe could fwimtill we might run into any Port, lo 
the Mafter continued firing Guns for Help \ and a light 
Ship who had rid it out jufi a-head of us, ventured a 
Boat out to help U5. It was with the utnioft Hazard 
the Boat caroe near us, but it was impoffible for us ta 
get on Board, or for the Boat to lie near the Ship fide* 
till at laft the Men rowing very heartily, and ventur- 
ing their Lives to fave ours, our Men call them a Rope 
over the Stern with a Buoy to it, and then vered it ouc 
h great Length, which they after great Labour and Ha- 
zard took hold of, and we haul'd them clofe under our 
Stern, and got all into their Boat. It was to no pur- 
pofe tor them or us, after we were in the Boat, to think 
of reaching to their own Ship ; fo all agreed to let her 
drive, and only to pull her in towards Shore as much 
as we could, and our MafVer promifcd them, That if the 
Boat was ftav'd upon Shore, he would make it good 
to their Mafter: So partly rowing and partly driving, 
our Boat Went away to the Northward, Hoping to* 
wards the Shore, ahnoft as far as Wmtertcn-Ne\s. 

We were not much more than a Quarter of an Hour 
6ut of our Ship, but we faw her fink: And then I un- 
derUood for the firft time, what was meant by a Ship 
foundering in the Sea. I muft acknowledge 1 had hard- 
ly Eyes to look up, when the Sea-men told me &e was 
finking", for from that Moment they rather put me 
into the Boat, than that I might be faid to go in, mj* 
Heart was as it were dead within me, partly with 
Fright, partly with Horror of Mind, and the Thpughts 
6f what was yet before me. 

■ While we were in this Condition, the Men yet la- 
lourlng at the Oar to bring the Boat Tiear the Shorc^ ; 
we could fee, '(when our Boat inttunthi^ the Waves; 
Wcwere able to. fee the Shore) a great .many People 
runfling along the Strand to aiTiltira wSert iveJhoiild 
tome near ; But we made but flow^Waf tttWaHs the 
Shore ; ror were we able to reach 'the Shoi*, till bfiJ 
ing pad the Ught-houfe at WiuUrtm, tht Shore falli 
off to the Wcftward towards Crt»rr ; and fo the I-and 
broke 



( >v) 

broke off a little the Violence of tlieWindi' Here we 
gut in, and tho' not without mucti Diincuit} , got all 
laieon ShorCj and walk'd alterwards on foot to Tar- 
mouth, where, as unfbitunate Men, we were ulcd with 
great Humanity, as well by the Magiilrates of the 
Town, who aJlign'd us good Quarters, as by particu- 
lar Merchants and Owners of 15 hips ; and had Money 
given us fufficient to carry us sithcr to Lmdin, or back 
to HuH, as we thought iit. 

Had I now had the Senfe to have gone back to 
KuUi and have gene Home, I had been happy, and my 
-V'ather, an Emblem of our blelfed Saviour's Parable, 
liad even kill'd the fittltd Calt tor me ; tor bi;aring the 
Ship T went away in, was call away in 'iarmoutb Road, 
it was a great while, beibre he had any Affurance that 
1 was not drown'd- 

. But my ill Fate pufli'd me on now, with an Obfti- 
nacy tliat nothing could refill ; And tho' I had Icveral 
times ioud Calls from my Keafon, and my more coiii- 
pofed Judgment to go home, jet 1 had no Power to 
do it : I know not what to call this, nor will I urge, 
that it is a lecret over ruling Decree, that hurries us on 
to be the Inllruiiients of our own Deftruiftion, even 
tho' it be before us, and that we pufli upon it with cur 
£jes open. Certainly, nothing but fome fuch decreed 
(iiiaroidabie Mifery attending, and which it was im- 
poffible for me to efcape, c /Uld have pufli'd me forward 
againll the caim Keafonings and Perfwafions of my moll 
retired Tljowghts, and againft two fueh villble Infttuc- 
tions as I had met with in my lirft Attempt. 
. My Comrade, who had help'd to harden me be. 
fcre, and who was the Mafter's Son, was now leis for- 
ward than I. The firll time iie fpoke lo me alter we 
were at Tartn^idby which was not till two or three 
Days; for we were feparated in the Town to fe»eral 
tiuarters : I lay, the iviHt time he law me, it appear'd, 
his Tone wa^ alter'd ; and looking very melancholy, and 

flaking his Head, ask'd me how I did; And telling his 
_ atber who I was, and how I had come this Voyage 
pnly for a Tryal, in order to go farther abroad ; his 
Father turning to me with a very grave and concerned 
Tope ; "£:ung Man, iays he^you ought never to gs t« Sea 

I Google 



( '3) 

oig more \youoagbt to take this f.r a plain aaJ fi/ihle 
ittt'fl, that yen are n-t to be a. 6'eajaring Man, Wliy, 
t^ir, laid J, will >ou go to Sea no iiiure r' Tbat u am- 
thtr Cafe, laid he, it it my CalHiig, and theref<.ri my Du- 
ty; but atyoa make tbit V<iyage jor a £ryat, y.u fee mtiat' 
a Fafle Heaven buf givenyott, of moat y fit aretoexpeciif 
youperjij} ; perhaps tbit ii all bejaUen us onyiur Account, 
like Jonah in the Ship cf Tarlliifli. I'ra^), continues he, 
what are you ! And on xehat acc^ uiil did you go to Sea f 
upon chat I told him I'ome ot" my Story ; at the find of 
which he burll out with a llrange kind of PalUoit ; V\ bat 
had I done ! lays he, that liich an unhappy Wretch 
lliould come into my Ship ! 1 would not let my Foot in 
the lame Ship with thee again for a 1 houland Pounds -■ 
I'his indeed was, as [ faid, an £xcurliut) of his Spirits, 
which were yet agitated by the Senic of his Lofs, and 
was (artlier than he could have Authority to go : How- 
ever, he atterwards talk'd very gravely to me, exbor- 
me to go back to my Father, and not tempt Providence 
to my H.uin ; told me i might iee a vilible Hand of 
Heaven agdnft me} And youni^ Man, laid he, depend 
upon itf 'J you da mt go bad; ishiTe euer fou go, you mH 
meet with nothing but Difajiers and DifappointmentSytiU 
your father's Words are juifilied upon fou. 

We parted loon after ; tor I made him little Anfwer, 
and I law him no mjre; which way he went I know not : 
As tor mfo having lome Money in my Pocket,! travelled 
to London by L»nd ; and there, as well as on the Road, had 
maity Struggles with my felt, what Courfe of Life [ 
iliould take^and whether 1 Ihould go Home, or go to Sea. 

As to going Home, Shame oppoled the bert Motions 
that ottcr'd to my Thoughts ; and it immediately, oc- 
curr'd to me how I iliould be laujjh'd at among the 
Neighbours, and ihould be alhani'd to fee, not my Father 
and Mother only, hut even every Body elfe : From. 
whence i have Itnce often obferv'd how incongruous and; 
irrational the common Temper of Mankind is, efpeci- 
aily' of Youth, to that Reafon which ought to guide 
them in /uch Cafes, vij. That they are not afliani'd to 
lin, and yet are aiham'd to repent ; not afham'd of the 
Aaion for which they ought juftly to be efteem'd Fools, 
but are athamed of the returnirigj which, ouly can make^ . 
them elleem'd wife Men. In 



, Google 



( i4) 



In this Stste of Life however I remain'd fome tiffle* 
uncertain what Meafures to take, and what Ccpurfe of 
Life 10 lead, An meliftible Reluftance continued to 
going Home ; and as I ftay'd a while, the Retnambranee 
of the Diltreisl hadbeenin wore off; and as that a-- 
batedj the little Motion I had in my Defires to a Re- 
turn, wore off with it, till at laft 1 quite laid alide the 
Thoughts of it, and look'd out for a Voyage. 

That evil Influence which carried me Hrft away 
from my Father's Houfe.which hurried me into the wild 
and indigefted Notion of railing my Fottune; and that 
imprefe'dthofe Conceits fo forcibly upon me, as to make 
itie deaf to all good Advice, and to the Entreaties, and 
even the Commands of my Father ; I lay, the fame 
Influence, whatever it was, prelented the mod unfOr- 
turate of all Enterpriies to my View; and I went on 
board a VeiTel boHnd to the Coall of Africa, or, as Our 
Sailors vHlgarly call it, a Voyage to Gu'mey. 

It was my great Misfortune, that in all thefe Ad- 
ventures 1 did not jhip my felf as a Stiilor ; whereby, 
J the' I might indeed have work'd a Kttle harder thaa 

ordinary, yet at the lame time I had learn'd the Duty 
and Oflice of a Foremaft Man 5 and in time might 
have quaKfied iny felf for a Mate or Lieutenant, if not 
for a M after. Butas it was always my Fate to chufe 
for the worfe, fo I did here; for having Money in my 
Pocket, and good Cloiths upon my Back, 1 would al- 
ia^ ways go on board in the Habit of a Gentleman ; and fo t 
•j neither had anyBufinefs in the Ship.or learn'd- to doany. 
■ It wa« my Lot flrft of all to Wll into pretty good 
Company in ipwfcn. Which does not always happen to 
' fltcb loofe and lingulded young Fellows as I then was ; 
■*> the Devil generally ilot oiiiitting to lay fome Snare for 
f'' them very early: But 'it was not fo with me ; IflrftfeB 
r ictjuaintcd with the Mafter of a Ship who had been on 
the Ooi& a^<3tiifKyi and who "having had very good 
SucCefs ther?, was refolved to go again 5 this Capt.tak- 
king a FiiWj' to my Converlatioi]/ which , was liot 
i difagreeable at that nmt, hearing me lay f had a 
!* ftiind to fee the "World, told me, if 1 would go the 
1 Voyage *ith him, I ihould be dt no Expencc ; I ih9uld 
I leius Meli-Mate and his Cotnp«nion j and if \ could 

i - ?>"r 



( '5 ) 

terry anything witli me, I ftiould have aTl tlie Advan-' 
^ge ofit that the Trade would admit ; and perhaps [ 
tiiiht meet with feme Encouragement. 
I i embrac'd the Offer, andentringinto aftriiftFriend- 
Piip with this Captain, who was an honed; and plain- 
f eahng Wan, I went the Voyage with him, and car- 
ried a ftnall Adventure with me, which by the dillnte- 
tefted Honefty of my Friend the Captain, I encreafed 
i'ery confiderably ; fori carried about 40/. in luch 
W°ys and Trifles as the Captain direAed me to buy. 
a'his 40 /. I had mufter'd together by the Afliftance of 
jTome of my Relations whom I correrponded with, and 
■who, 1 believe, got my Father, or at leaft my Mother, 
^o contribute fo much as that, to my firft Adventure. 

This Was the only Voyage which I may fay was fuc- 
cefsful in ali my Adventures, and which I owe to the 
Integrity and Honefty of my Friend the Captain 5 un- 
der whom alfol got a competent Knowledge of the 
Mathematicks and the Rules of Navigation, learn'd how 
' keep an account of the Ship's Courfc, take an Obfer- 

tion, and, in ihort, to underftand fome things that 
were needful to he underftood by a Sailor ; For as he 
took delight to introduce me, I took delight to learn ; 
and, in a Word, this Voyage made me both a Sailor 
and a Merchant : For I brought home 5 Pound 9 Oun- 
ces of Gold-Dud For my Adventure, which yielded me 
in Londcntit my Return, almoft 300J. and this filled 
me with thofe afpiring Thoughts which have fince To 
compleatcd my Ruin. 

Yet even in this Voyage I had my Misfortunes too 5 
particularly that I was continually fick, being throwa 
into a violent Calenture by the excelTive Heat efche 
Climate ; our principal Trading being upon the Coall, 
from the Lat. of 1^ Degrees N, even to the Line it felf. 

I was now fetupfor a Gamy Trader; andmy Friend, 
to my great Misfortune, djijig foon after his Arrival, £ 
rcfolved to go the lime Voyage again, and I embark'd 
in the fame Veil'el with one who was his Mate in the 
former Voyage, and had now got the Command of the 
Ship. This was the unhappiell; Voyage that ever Man 
made ; for tho' I did not carry quite too /. of my new 
gaih'dWnlthgfo tiut I bad 2oo;.left,aiid nbicii 1 lodg'd 
" - ^^ 

I . I Google 



(16) 

*yith-my Friend's Widow, who was veryjuft to me, 
j-ct 1 tell into terribli; Mistortunes in this Vojage ; and 
the iirll was this, vJj. Our Ship making her Courle to. 
wards the Diniiry Iflands, or rather bt-twecn tholi; alands 
and the Ajriean Shore, wasldrpriz'd in the Gray ot the 
^loining by uMixir'jh Kower of 6'aliee, who gave chace 
to us with all the Sail fhe could make. We crowded 
alio as much Canvars as our Yards would Ipread, or our 
Malts carry, to have got clear ; but linding the Pirate 
^in'd upon us, and would certainly come up with us in 
« few Hours, we prepared to light; our 3bip having 
12 Guns, and the Rogue ib. About three in the At- 
ternoon he came up witli us, and bringing to, b-y milUke, 
]uft athwart our Quarter, inllead ol atnwart our Stern, 
as he intended, we brought 8 ot our Guns to bear on that 
iide, and pour'd In a iiroadiide upon him, which made 
him (heer off again, after returning our Fire, and pouring 
(n alio his iinall Shot trom near aoo Men which he had 
en Board. However, we had not a Man touch'd, all 
pur Men keeping clofe : He prepar'd to attack us again, 
and we to detend our letvcs ; but laying us o'n Board tlie 
fiext time upon our other Quarter, he entered 90 Men 
upon our Decks, who immediately fell to cutting and 
backing the Decks and Ktgging. We ply'd them with 
Small-lliot.Halt-Hkcs, Powder-Cherts, and fuch like, 
?nd clear'd our Deck ot' them twice. Hovvever, to cut 
ihort this melancholy part of our Story, cur Ship be- 
ing dilabled, and three of our Men kill'd, and eight 
wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were carry'd 
all Prilbners into SaUee, n Port belonging to the Aieers. 
The urage 1 had therewas not lb dreadtul as at firft 
I ^prehended ; nor was I carried up the Country to 
the tmperor's Court, as the reft of our Men were, but 
Was itept by the Captain of the Rover, as his proper 
Prize, and made his Slave, being young and nimble, and 
fit for his Bufinefs, At this iurpriiing Change of my 
Circumflances, from a Merchant to a Miii:rable Slave, 
I was perfeiftly overwhelmed ; and now I look'd back 
upon axy Father's prophetick Difcourle to me, that [ 
fliould be miferable, and have none to relieve me, which 
I thought was now fo effectually brought to pafs, that [ 
cuuld nut be uorfe ; that now the Hand of Heaven had 

OVM- 



Google 



( '7^) 



overtaken me, and I was undone without Redemptions 
liut alas ! tins was but a lafte ot theMilery I was 
to go thro', as will appear in the Sequal of this Story. 

A& my new Patron, or Mailer, had taken me home 
to this Houle, fo i wasin Hopesthat hewould take me 
with him when he went to Sea again, believing that it 
would fome time or other be his Fate to be taken b}- a 
Spanijh or Pwlugal Man of War ; and that tlien I ihould 
be let at Libeity. But this Hope of mine was foon ta- 
ker) away ; for when he went to Sea, he left meon Shore 
to look after his little Garden, and do the common 
prndgeryof Slaves alwui his Houfe; and ivhenhecsme 
home again from his Cruile, he ordered me to lie in the 
Cabin, to look after the Ship. 

Here { mediated nothing hut my Elcape, and what 
Method I might take to effctt it ; hut found no way that 
had the lead ProbabiUty in it': Nothing prel'ented to 
make the Suppo/ition of it rational ; for I had no Body 
to communicate it to, that would embark with me, no 
Fellow Slave, no Mngl'Jhman, Irijhuxn, or Scitfman 
there but my felf ; io that for two Years, tho" I often 
plcafcd mylelf with the Imagination, yet 1 never had 
the leaft encouraging i^rorpecT; of puitinf; it in Pradtice. 
'. After about two /ears, an odd Circumllance prelent- 
cdit lelf, which put "the old Thoughts of making fome 
attempt Tor myLihcrtyagainin my Head: My I'atron 
lying at' home longer than uliial, without fitting out 
his Ship, which, as 1 heard was for want of Money, 
he ufed conitSntly once or twice a Week, fometimes oft- 
ner, if the Weather was fair, to take the Ship's Pinnace, 
and go out into the Road a filhing -, and as be always 
took me and a young Maicpu with him to row the Boat^ 
we made bim very merry, and 1 prov'd ver ydexteriius in 
catchingFiJhjinlbmch, that fbmeiimes he would fend me 
with a Moor, one ofTiis K-infmen, and theYouth the Ma- 
'■f/iff, as they called him, to catch a Dilh of Filh for him. 

It happened one time, that going afilhing with him in 
calm J^orning, a Fog role lb thick, that tho' we were 
not half'a League from the Shore, we loft fight of it ; 
and rowing we knew hot whither or which way, we, 
Jaboyr'd all Day, and all the next Night ; and when tho. 
Morning canie, wc fouud we had puU'd off to Sea, in- 
ftead 



, Google 



(iS) 

ffencl of pulling in for the Shore; and that we were at 
tcaft two Leagues from the Land .■ However, " we got 
well in again, tho' with a great deal of Labour, and 
fome Danger; for the Witidbegantoblowprettyfrefliin 
the Morning ; but particularly we were all very hungry. 

But our Patron warn'd by thisDifafter, refolved d 
take [MoreCarc of himfelfforthe ftiture; and having lyinj, 
by him the Long-Boat of our SngHJh Ship which he had 
taken, he refolved he would not go a filhing any more 
without a Compafs and Ibrtie Provifjon ; fo he order'd 
the Carpenter of his Ship, who alio was an En^tiOi 
Slave, to bulid a little State-rootn ot Cabin in the mid- 
dle of the Long-Boat, like that ofa Barge, with a Place 
to ftand behind it to fteer, and haulhbme the Main-iheet; 
and room Iw'fore for a hand or two to ftand and work 
the Sails. She ("ail'd with that we call a Moulder of 
Mutton Sail ; and the Boom gib'd over the Top of the 
Cabin, which lay very fnug and low, and had in it, 
foom for him to lie, with a Slave or two, and a Table 
to eat on, with iSme filiail Lockers to put in fome Bot- 
tles of fuch Liquor as he thought fit to drink ; particu- 
larly his Bread, Rice and Coflfee. 

We were frequently out with this Boat a filhiiigj and 
and as I was moil dextrous to catch Filh for bim, be 
never went without me. It happened oneday, that he 
had appointed to go out in this Boat, either for Plea- 
fure or for Fiih, with two or three Moors of fome i 
DiftinSiion, and Ibr whom he had provided extraordi- i 
narijy ; and had therefore fent on Board the Boat over ■ 
Night, a larger Store of Provi/ions than ufual ; and ■ 
had ordered me tb get ready three Fuiees with Pow- 
derand Shot, which Were on Board his Ship ; tor that '. 
theydefign'd fome fpgjt of Fowling as weB as Fiiliing. 

I got all things ready as he had direAed, atid ^vaited 
the nejt Morning with t!ie Boat waihed clean, her An- 
(ient and Pendants out, and every thing to accommo- j 
date his Guefts ; when by and by my Patron came on 
fcoard alone, and told me his Guefts had put G£f going, 
upon fome Bufinefsthat fell out, and order'd me with 
riib Man 'and Boy, as ufual, to go out with the Boat and 
datch thefn_lbilie Fiih, for that his Friends were to fup at 
J)2^H«Ufeihe coOunaoded tao,t haf as Iboti at I had got fome 
FUh. 



fiSb, I (houU bring it home to his Houfe : A13 which 
1 prepared to do. 

This Moment my former Notions of Deliverance 
darted into my Thoughts; for now I found I was like 
to have a little Ship at my Command ; and my Ma- 
fter being gone, I prepar'd. to furnifli my I'elf, not for 
filhing Bufinefs, but (or a Voyage ; tho' I knew not, 
neither did I fo much as confider whether I fliould (leer; 
for any where to get out of that place was my Way. 

My firil Contrivance wasto make a Preten::e to fpeak 
to this Moor, to get Ibmething for our Subfiflence on 
board ; for I told him we mull not prefume to eat of 
our Patron's Bread ; he faid, that was true ; fo ha 
brought a large Basket of Rusk, or Bisket, of rJieir kind, 
andthree Jarrs with frelb Water into the Boat: I knew 
where my Patron's Cal'e oFBottles flood, which it was 
evident by the Make, were taken out of fome E»j0'»/4 
Priie ; and I convey'd them into the Boat while tlia 
Moor was on Shore, as if they had been there before, 
for our Mader : I convey'd alio a great Lump of Bees- 
Wax into the Boat, which weigh'd about half a Hun« 
dred Weight, with a parCel of Twine or Thread, a 
Hatchet, a Saw, and a Hammer, all which were of 
g^eat ufe to us afterwards; efpecially the Wax to make 
Candles. Another Trick I try'd upon him, whichhe 
innocently came into alfo : His Name \v?.%'Ifm<Kl, whom 
they call Muly, or Mehy \ fo \ call'd to him, Mehy, faid 
I, our Patron's Guns are all on Board the Boat, can 
J'ou not get a little Powder and Shot, it may be we may 
kill ibme AlcamUs (a Fowl like oar Carlitui) for our 
feJves, fori know he keeps the Gunner's Stores in the 
Ship ? Yes, fdys be, I'll bring fome ; accordingly he 
brought a great Leather Pouch, which held about & 
Found and a haifof Powder, or rather more j and a- 
rother with Shot, that had five or fiit Pound, with 
Ibme Bullets, and put all into the Boat : At the fame 
Time I had found fome Powderof my Maftec's inthe 
great Cabin, with which I fill'd one of the large Bof> 
ties in the Cafe, which ivas almoft empty ; pouring what 
was in it into another : And thus hirnillied with every 
tiling needful) we bil'd out of the Port to fiili' The 



, Google 



( ^o) 



CaKle wliich it at the Entrance of the Port, knew 
who we were, and took no Notice ot' us ; and we 
were not above a Mile out of the Port, before we 
liaul'd in our Sail, and fet us down to lilli. The 
VV ind blew ti-om the N. N. E- which was contrary to 
my Defire ; tor had it blown Southerly, i had been 
liire to have made the ConA at' Spain, and at leaft 
reach'd to the Bay oi Caai^ ; bat my Kciolutions were, 
blow which way it would, 1 would he gone from that 
horrid Place where 1 was, and leave the reit to Fate. 

After we had fifh'd f^me rime, and catch'd nothing, 
for when I had Filh on my Hook I would not pull 
them up, that he might not fee them •, I faid to the 
Aliior, this will i!ot do, our Mafter will not be thus 
ferv'd, we muft tknd farther off: He thinking no 
liarm, agreed ; and iieing in the Head of the Boat, fet 
the Sails ; and as I had the Helm, I run the Boat out 
near a League farther, and tlicn brought her too, as if 
I would fiih ; when givhig the Boy the Helm, I ftepf 
forward to where the Mci r was, and making as if 1 ftoop'd 
for Ibmething behind him, I took him by Surprize 
with my Arm under his Twift, and tois'd him clear 
over'board into the Sea; he roli immediately, lor lie 
fwam like a Cork, and catl'd to me, begg'd to be taken 
in, told me he would go all over the World with me : 
He fwam fo ftrong after the Boat, that he would have 
reach'd tne very quickly, there being but little Wind ; 
ujion which I ftep'd into the Cabin, and fetching one 
of the Fowling-Pieces, [ prefented it at him, and told 
bim, I had done him no Hurt, and if he would beijiii- 
ct, I would do him none : But ikid 1, you (wim well 
enough to reach the Shore, and the Sea is calm, make 
thebetlof your Way to Shore, audi will do you no 
Harm, but if you come near the Boat, I'll fhoot you 
thro* the Head ; for I am refolv'd to have my Liber- 
ty : So he turn'd himfelf about and fwam for the Shore, 
and I make no doubt but he reach'd it with Eafe, for 
he was an excellent Swimmer. 

i could have been content to have taken this Moor 
■with me, and have drown'd the Boy, but there was no 
venturing Cfttnirt him : When he was gone, 1 turn'd - 
^ tlie Boy, who they call'ti ^7, and laid to him, Xu- 



( " ) 

TV, if you will be faithful to me, I'll make you a great 
Man ; but if you will not Jiroke your tace to be 
true; to me, ti/al U, fwear by Maliomet and hit father's 
Beard, I niuft threw ><ju into the Sea too, the Boy 
fiwil'd in my Face, and fpoke fo innocently, that I could 
not miftruft him \ and fwurc to be faithlul to me, and 
go all over the World with me. 

While I was in View of the Mocr that was fwiming, 
I flood out direitly to Sea, with the Boar, rather ftret-' 
chin^ to Windward, that they might think me gone 
towards the Straiti-moviXh (as indeed any one that had 
been in their Wits mud ha' been liippos'd to do ; ) for 
who would ha' iiippos'd we were laii'd on to the South- 
ward to the truly Barbarian Qtia.&, where whole Na- 
tions ot Negroes were fure to furround us with their 
Canoes, and deftroy us ; where we amid never once go 
on Shore, but we Ihould be devouv'd by favage Brails, 
or more mercilcfs Savagts of human Rind. 

But as foon as it grew dusk in the Evening, T chang- 
ed my Courfe, and ilecr'd direftly South and by EalV, 
bending my Courfe a little toward the Eatl, that ( 
might k°ep in with the Shore ; and having a fair frefh 
Gale ijf Wind, and a fmooth quiet Sea, I made fueh 
Sail, that I bdlieve by the next Oay at three a-Clock in 
the Afternoon, when i firft made the Land, \ could 
not be lefs than 150 Miles ? ouch of SalSet, quite beyond 
the Emperor of Aipncca's Dominions, or indeed of any 
other Ring thereabouts tor we law no People. 

Vet fuch was the Fright I had taken at tlie Afcnrj, 
and the dreadtii! Apprehenfions I had ot falling into 
their Hands, that I would not flop, or go on Shore, or 
come to an Anchor; the Wind continuing Fair, tilj [ 
had fail'd in that manner iiveDays.' And tlien theWind 
ihiftingto the Southward, I concluded alfo, that il a- 
ny of our VefTels were in Chafe of me, they allb would 
row give pver ; fo I ventur'd to make to the Coall, and 
came to an Anchor in the Mouth of a little Kii'er, [ 
knew not what, or where; neither what Latitude, ■ 
what Country, what Nation, or what River ; ' niithef 
Oiw, or defir'd to ice any People, the principal thing I 
wanted was freJh Water. We came into this '"reek in 
the Evening refolving to fwim on Shore as loon as it " 



Goc^Ie 



was t!ark, and difcover tlie Country ; but as foon 3S it 
was quite dark, we heard fucli dreadful Noiles of the 
Barking, Roaring, and Howling ol' wild Creatures, of 
we knew not what Kinds, that the poor Boy was rea- 
dy to die with Fear, and begg'd of n no to g on Shore 
till Day. Well, Xury, faid I, t! en I von b t it 
may be we may fee Men by Day 1 o 11 b as bad 
to us as thofe Lions ; Iben we may g v t! m the jhoot 
Gun, dy^Xu/y, laughing, make lb m ua wy fuch 
Sttglijh Xary fpoke by converfing among us ilaves. 
However, I was glad to fee the Boy Co cl ee iul and t 
gave him a Dram (out of our Patron s Cale ot Bot- 
tles) tochear him up: After all, XwfS Advice was 
good, and I took it, we drop'd our little Anchor, and 
lay ftill all Night ; I fay ftill, for we fiept none ; for 
in two or three Hours we faw vaft great Creatures 
wc knew not what to call them) of many Sorts, came 
down to the Sea-fliore, and run into the Water, wal- 
lowing and wafting themfeives for the Pleafure of 
cooling themfeives ; and they made fuch hideous How- 
lings and Ycllings, that I never indeed heard the like. 
Auiy was dreadfully frighted, and indeed fo was I 
too: But we were botli worfe frighted ivhen we beard 
one mighty Creature come (wimming towards our Boat ; 
we could not fee him, but we might hesr him by his 
blowing, to be a monflrous huge and furious Beail; 
Xurj faid it was a Lion, and it might be fo for ought 
I know : Poor Xiry tried out to me to Weigh 
the Anchor and row away ; no lays I, Xury, we can 
flip our Cable with a Buoy to it, and go to Sea, they 
cannot- follow us far ; I had no fboner faid fo, but I 
perceiv'd the Creature ("whatever it was) within two 
t)a'rs length, which fomething furprized me ; however, 
I immediately flepC to the Cahin-door, and taking up 
my Gun, iir'd at him, upon which he immediately 
turn'd about, and fwam towards the Shore again. 

But it was not pofTible to deferibe the horrible Noifes, 
and hideous Cries and Hu.wlings, that were raifed as 
well upon the Edge of the Shore, as higher within the 
Country, upon the Noife or Report of a Gun, a thing I 
have fome Rcafon to believe thofe Creatures had never 
tewd before. This convinced me, that ih?re was no. 



,3le 



' ( =3 ) 

going on "Shore for us in itie Night upon that Coaft^ 
and how to venture on Shore in the Day, wns another 
Queftion too ; for to have fallen into the Hands of any 
cf the Savages, had been as bad as to have fallen into 
the hands of Lions and Tigers ; at leaft we were etjual- 
ly apprehenfive of the Danger of it. 

Be that as it would, we were obHged to go on Shore 
foniewhere or other for Water, for we had not a Pint 
left in the Boat; when or where to get to it, was the 
Point : Xury faid. If I would let him go on Shore with 
one of the Jarrs, he would find if there was any Water, 
and bring lome to me. ( ask'd him, why he would go ? 
why I Ihouid not go, and he ftay in the Boat.' The 
Boy anfwered with lb much Affedion, that made me 
love him ever after. Says he, Jf wild Mans ':cme, the/ 
eat mii yen go io:y. Well, Xury, laid I, we will both 
go, and if the wild Mans com^ we will kill them, they 
fliall cat neither of us ■, fo t gave Xury a Piece of B.usk- 
bread to er-t, and a Dram cut of our Patron's Cafe ot 
Bottles, which I mentioned before, and we haul'd the 
Boat in as near the Shore, as we thought was proper, 
and waded on Shore ; carrying nothing but our Armsj 
and f wo Jarrs for Water. 

I did not care to go out of fight of the Boat, fear- 
ing the coming of Canoes with Savages down the River: 
But the Boy feeing a low Place, about a Mile up the 
Country, lambled to it, and by-and-hy I faw him come 
running towards me : 1 tliought he was purfiied by fome 
Savage, or frighted with fome Wild Eeaft, and I run 
forward towards him, to help him ; hut when I came 
nearer to him, 1 faw fomething hanging over his Shoul- 
ders, which was a Creature that he had Jhot, like a Hare, 
but differeiit in Colour, and longer Legs ; however, we' 
were very glad of it, and it was very good Meat; but the 
great toy that poor Xury came with, was to tell rae hq 
had found good Water, andfeen i;o wild Mans, 

But we found afterwards that we need not take fuch 
Pains for Water, for a little higher up theCrefk where 
we were, we found the Water freJh when the Tide was 
out, which flows but a little Waj- up ; fo we filled our 
Jatis and feaftcd on the Hare we ha4 killed, and prc- 

.. ' ■ . p«e4 



..Google 



C H ) 

pared to go on our Way, liaviiig feen no Foor-fteps of 
any human Creature in that part of the Co^^)tr;^. 

As I had been one Voyage to this Coaft betore, I 
knew ^ery ivtU that the lllandsot the Canaries, and the 
Cape de Vtrd Iflands alfo, lay not far otF from the Coalt. 
But as 1 had nc*lnftrumcnts to take an Oblcrvation to 
know what Latitude we were in, and did not exaftly 
know, or at leail not remember, whatLatitudc they were 
in, 1 knew i)ot where to look tor them, or wlien tortand 
off to Sea towardsThem, otherwife 1 m?g)it now eaiily 
have ibund fome of thefe ((lands. But my Hopcwas 
that if I flood along this Coall till I came to that Part 
where the En^.i/ij traded, 1 ihould find fome of their 
Veffels upon their uliial Deiign of Trade, tliat would 
relieve and take us in. 

By the bell of my Calculation, that Place where I 
row was, mull bs that Country, which lying between 
the Emperor ot iviori,cci'% Dominions and the Ai^rti'x, 
lies wafte and uninhabited, except by W ild Beafts ; the 
Negmes having abandon'd it, and gone farther iouih, 
for fear of theyVJiwrj; and the njcurs not thinking it 
worth inhabiting, by Reafon of its Barrannels; and 
indeed both foriitking it hecaule of the prodigious Num- 
bers of Tygers, Ljons, Leopards, and other furious 
Creatures which harl)oiir there ; I'o that the Aj'vcrs uCe 
it ibr their Hunting only, where rhey go Uke an Annj', 
two or three thoufand Men at a time; and indeed tor 
near an hundred Miles together upon this Coaft, we 
faw nothing but a wafte uninhabited Country by Day, 
and heard nothing but HcwUrgs and Roaring of Wild 
Beads by Night. 

,. , Onceor twice in the Day-time, I thought T I5w the 
Fho of UtKTiffe, being the high Top of the Mountain 
Teneriffe in the Canark> ; anA had a great mind tu ven- 
ture oiit in Hopes of reaching thither ; but having tri- 
ed twice, [ was (orced in again h) contrary Winds, the 
Sea alfo going too high for my httle Veilel ; fo I le- 
folv'd to purlUe my firft Deiign, and keep along the 
Shore. 

Several times we were obliged to land for frefliWater, 
after we had left this Place; and oricc in particlilar, be* 
ing earlyin the Morning, we came to an Anchor under 



Google 



( '5 ) 

a little Point of Lan^, which was pretty higli, and the 
lide l-eginning to flow, we lay IHI! logo farther in. 
Xury.y whole Eyes were more about liim than it feems 
mine were, calls ibftly to me, and tells me, that we had 
beft go farther off the Shore; for, fays he, look yonder 
lies a dreadful Moiiiler on the Side o^ that Hillock, faft 
afleep, 1 look'd where he pointed, and faw a dreadful 
Moniler indeed ; for it was a terrible great Lion, that 
lay on the fide of the Shove, under the Shade of a piece 
of the Hill, that hung as it were a little over him. Xwy, 
fays I, you ihall go on Shore, and kill him: Xury look'd 
frighted, and laid. Me kill! he eat ftre at one Mculiii 
one Mouthful he meant ; howeFer, I faid no more to the 
Boy, but bad him be ftill, and took our biggeft Gun, 
which was almoft Musket-hore, and loaded it with » 
good Charge of Powder, and with two Slugs, and laid 
it down ; then 1 loaded anotht-r Gun with two Bullets, 
and the third C for we had three Piects) I loaded with 
five liiialJer Bullets. I took the belt Aim I cuiild with 
the firft Piece to have ftiot hiui into tlie Head ; but be 
lay fo with his Leg rais'd a little above his Nofe, that 
the Slugs hit bis Leg about the Knee, and broke tlie 
Bone. He ftarted up growling at firft, but, finding bis 
Leg broke, fell down again, and then got up upon three 
Legs, and gave the moft hideous Koar that ever I heard. 
1 was a little furprized, that I had not hit him on tiie 
Head ; however, I took up the lecond Pice: immediate- 
ly ; and tho' he began to move off, fir'd again, and fnot 
him into tlie Head, and had the riesfure to fee him 
drop, and making but little Noife, he lay ftruggling 
for Life. Then Xury took Heart, and would have me 
let him go on Shore. Well, go, laid I. So the Bqy 
jump'd into the Water, and taking the little Gun in one 
Hand, fwam to Shore with the other Hand; and cunj- 
ing ciofe to the Creature, put the Mmzle of the Piece 
to his Ear, and Ihot him into the Head again, which 
I difpatched him quite. 

Tiiis was Game indeed to us, but this was no Food; 
and I was very forry, to lofe three Charges ofPowder 
and Shot upon a Creature that was good for nolhijig to 
us. However, Xary faid, he would have fome of him ; 
fohe comes on board, and ask'd me to give him the 
C Hatchet i 



, Google 



( ^«) 

Hatcliet. For what, Xury, faid I? Me cut off his HcaU^ 
iatd he. Howevijr, Xuiy could not cut oft his Head; '. 
tut he cut off a Foot, and brought it ivith biin, and it 
was a monttrous gteat one, 

I bethouglit myielthowever, that perhaps tjie Skin 
of him might one way or other be of Ibme VaUie to us; 
and I velolv'd to talic off his Skin ii I could. So Xury 
and I went to work with him ; but Xuiy was much the 
Iwttei- Workman at it, tor I knew very ill how to do it. 
Indeed it took usup/'boty the wholeDaj", Imt at iart iv« 
got off the Hide o) him, and Tpreading it on the top o? 
jOur Cahin, the Sun etftaually dried it in two iJajs 
time, and it afterwirds feri-'d me to lie upon. 

After this Stop, we made on to the Southward con- 
tiriuady tor ten or twelve Da)-i, living very fparingly on 
uur Provifions, which began to abate very much, and 
going no oftner in to the ihore than we were obliged 
tx> for freJk Water. My Defign in this, was to make 
the^\vty Gambia Of Sine,%al!i that is to lay, any where 
about the Ca?e de Verd, where I was in hopes to meet 
with Come Eiircpian Ship, and it I did not, 1 knew not 
what Courfe I liad to take, but to feek for the Ifiaads, or 
periih there among the Negnes, I knew that all the 
Ships from 'F.wipe, which (aii'd either to the Coaft of 
Cuiney^ or to Brafil, or to zheE^l indies, made thisCape, 
or thofe /Jlaijds ; and in a word, I put the whole of my 
Fortune upon thb fingle Point, either that I mull meet 
with ibme Ship, or muil perifli. 

WJien I had purliied this Refoluion about ten Days 
longer, as I have faid, 1 began to fee that the Land 
was inhabited, and in two or three Places as we failed 
bjr^ we faw People ftand upon the Shore to look at us ; 
we coald alio perceive tbey were quite black and Hark 
naked. I was once inclin'd to have gone on Shore to 
to them ; but X'"y was my better Counfellor, and faid 
tome, Niig(i,mgo: How<5ver, I haul'd in nearer the 
Shore, that I might talk to them, and I found they run 
along the Shore by me a good way. 1 obferv'd they 
had no Weapons in their Hands, except one, who had 
a. long (lender Stick, which Xury faid was a Lance, and 
that they would throw them a gre^t way with good 
Aim i ia I kept at a diftance, but lalk'd vvilb them by 
Signs 

I Google 



Signs as well as I could, and particularly made 5igtis Fot 
fomecliing to eat. They beckon'd to me to ftop my 
Boat, and they would tecdi me foine Meat. Upon this 
I lower'd the Top of my Sail, and lay by ; and £ivo of 
them run up into the Country, and in lefs than halfan 
Hour came back and brought with them two Pieces of 
dry Flelh, and fome Corn, fuch as is the Produce of 
their Country ; but we neither knew what the one ot 
the otlier was: However, via were willing to accept it. 
But how to come at it, was our next Dilpure ; for I wa4 
rot lor venturing on Shore to them, and they were as 
much afraid of us ; but they took a Cafe Way for us all, 
for they brought it to the Shore and laid it down, and 
went and flood a great way off, till we teich'd it on 
Board, and then came dole to us again. 

We made Signs of Thanks to them, tor we had no- 
thing to make them amends : Gut an Opportunity ot- 
fer'd that veiy InlVant, to oblige them woriderfully ; for 
while we were lying by the Shore, came two migliiy 
Creatures, one purfuing the other ( as we took it J with 
great Fury, from the Mountains towards the Sea ; whe- ' 
iher it was the Male purfuing the t'aniale, or whether 
they were in Sport, or in Rage, we could not tell any 
more than we could tell whether it was ufual or ftrange; 
but I believe it was the latter, becaufe in the firfb place 
thofe ravenous Creatures feldmti appear but in the 
Night ; and in the lecond place, we found the People 
terribly frighted, el'peciaUy the Women. The Man that 
hadthe Lance cr Dart, did not fly from them, but the 
reft did; however, as the two Creatures ran dii-^iily 
into the Water, they did not feeni to o/F-t to fall upon 
theJVj^rw, but plung'd themielves into the Sea, flod 
fwam Kliout as if they had come for their Diverfion ; 
at lad one of them began to come nearer our Boat than 
atiirft | espeifted, bat I lay ready for him; for I had 
loaded my Gun with all paffible Ejtpedition, and hid 
^u>y load both the other : As foon as he came tairly 
within my Reach, I fir'd, and ftiot him direftly into the 
Head : Immediately he liink down into the Water, but 
rofe inftantly, andplung'd up and down as it he w:,s ■ 
ftruggling for Life; and fo indeed he was; He imme- 
diately made to the Shore, but hi'tween the Wourrfl, 
C a wilier 



, Google 



which was liis mortal Hurt, and tlie (Irang)ing of ,tM 
Water, he dkd juH: before hereach'dthe Shore, f 

It isiiiipojKble to expreis the Aftoniihment of thefc 
poor Creatures, at the Nolle and the Fire of my Gun ; - 
ibiiie of them were ready even to die for Fear, and 
tell down as dead with the very Terror. But wfeeti 
they faw the Creature dead, and funk in the Wate^ 
and that t made Signs to them to cocie to the Shore, 
they took Heart, and came to the Shore, and l^gan to 
inarch tor the Cyeatiire- I found liim by his Blood 
ftaining the Water, and by the help of a Rope,' which 
I flung round him, and gave the Negmes to haul, they 
dragg'd him on Shore, and found tliat it was a moll; 
curious Leopard, fpotted and fine, toan admirable de- 
gree i and the Ne^rires held up their Hands with Admi. 
ration, to think what it was I had kill'd him with. 

The other Creatin-e, frighted with the Flaih of Fire 
.and the Noifeofthe Gun, Twam to the Shore, and ran up 
direflly to the Mountains, from whence they came, 
Tior could I at that diilance know what it was- I i-iund 
quickly the Negroes were for eating the Flelh of this 
Creature, fo I was willing to have them take it as a. 
Favour from me, which when [ made Signs to them 
that they might take him, the>' were very thaiikfiil 
lor. Immediately they fell to work with him; and 
iho' they had no Knife, yet with a fiiarpened piece of 
"Wood, they took off his Skin as readily, and much more 
ccadily than we would have done with a Knife ; they 
offer'd me foiiae of the Fleih, which I decUn'd, mak- 
ing as if I would give it them, but made Signs for the 
Skin, which they gave me very freely, and brought me 
a great deal more of their Provillon, which tho' I did 
not underftand, yet 1 accepted. Then I made Signs to 
, them for fome Water, and held out one of my Jars to 
them, turning it Bottom upward, to ihew that it was 
empty, and that I wanted to have it filled : They eall'd 
immediately to Ibme of their Friends, and there came 
two Women and brought a great Veffel made of ^arth, 
and burnt, as I fuppole, in the Sun ; this they fet down 
for me, as before, and I fent Xary on Shore with my 
jars, and filled them ail tliree. The Women were as 
fiark naked as the Men. 



..Google 



..Google 



(»9T 

I was noiv rmrmHi'd with Roots and Corn, fuch i.s it 
was, and Water, and leaving my friendly N;j>t.es, I 
tiiide forward for about eleven Days more, without of- 
fering to go near the Shore, till I faw ihc Land run out 
a great length into the Sea, at about tlie dillaiice of tour 
or fivi'Lea^iies Ix^fiire me, and the Sea being verv ealm, 
I kept a large Offing to make this Point ; at length, 
doubling the Foint at about two Leagues from the Lsiid, 
I faw plainly Land on thi' other fide to Seaward ; then 
I concluded, as ic was mo ft certain indeed, that this 
wa^ the Cnpe de VerJ, and thofi- the Iflatids, called from 
thence Caps de Verd Ijlands. However, tliey ivere at a 
great Diftance, and I could not well tell what I had beil 
to do; for if 1 ftiould be taken with a Frelh ol Wind, 
1 might neither reach one or other. 

In this Dilemma, as I was verv penfive, I ftept into 
the Cabin, and lat me down, AV(r/ having the Heltu, 
when on a fudden the Boy cry 'd out, Ma/h', Mtflgr, a 
SbhmlhaSaili and the fooliih Boy wns frighted out 
of his Wits, thinking it muft needs bj foine of his Ma- 
fler'sShips fent to purfue us , when I knew we were got- 
ten far enough out of their Reach, 1 junip'd out o! the 
Cabin, and immediately faw not only the Ship, but 
what flie was, (wi) that it was a rorh^usfi: Ship, and as 
r thought, was bound to the Coafl ofGaittey for Ni^i-rcies • 
Eutwhenlobftrv'd theCourfe Ihe fteer'd, I wasfooii 
convinc'd they were bound foms other Way, and did 
not dcfign to come any nearer the Shore ; upan which I 
ftretch'd out to Sea as much as I could, refolving ta 
'peak with them itpofliWe. 

With ail the Sail I could make, I found I fhould not 
be able to come in their Way, hut that they wouli^ Ije 
gone by, beibre I could make any Signal to them ; 
but alter 1 hid crowded to the utmoA, and b:.'gan 
to defpair, they it feems faw me by ths belpofiheir 
Perfpeftive Glaffes, and that it was Ibme Eur'peita Boat, 
which they fuppos'd muil belong to fome Ship that was 
loft ; fo they Jhortened bail to let me come up. I Wis 
encouraged with this, and as 1 had my Patron's Anti- 
enton board, I made a Waft of it tn them for a Signal 
of Diftrels, and fir'd a Gun, both which they law, for 
they told me they faw ■ the Smoke, tho' they did nor 
C 3 hear 



, Google 



(3o) 



hear the Gmi ; upon thefe Signals thsy very kindly 
brought to, and lay by tor me, and in about three Huuvs 
tLne 1 came up with them. 

I hey ask'd me ivliat J was, in Portt^guefe, and in Spa' 
nif}, und in French, bat 1 underilood none of them; but 
at laii a Sati Sailor who was on board, call'd to me, and 
I aiilwer'd him, and told him I was an EnglijhmiiH, that 
had made my Efcape out of Slavery from the Maers at 
^aS:t ; then they bad me come on board, and very 
kindly took me in, and all my Goods. 

It was an iiienjirefGhle ]cy to me, thatany one will be- 
licve;that 1 was tiius delivet'd,as I efteem'd it, from fuch 
amilmhle and almoll hopelels Condition as I was in ; 
1 immediately offer'd all 1 bad to the Captain of the 
Ship, as a Reiurn for my Deliverance ; but he generouf- 
ly told me,he would take nothing from me, but that al! [ 
bad fliould be deliver'd fafe to me wheni came to thcBra- 
filt ; fort faj's he, / have fav'dy^u^ Life on no other Tertxs f 
than as I Ttauid be glad to be javed ttiyfelj', and it may 
t»f tioii Qr ether be my Let to be taken up in the fame Cn- 
dilim ; befides, faid he, vibcn i carry you to the Brafils, jo 
greit a Kay f'n mjour own Country, if Ifaoald take fremy. a 
what tittle foH have, yoa mil beflarved there, anct\ihen 1 only 
tate OKay Ib-stLiJe J Ijave given- No, no, Seignitr Inglefe 
*ays he, ^Mr. Englifliiiian,] / v)ill tarry yau thither «» 
Chai ity, and ihefe 2 oings will help you to buy your Sub/ifteacg 
tbi-re, ^ndysuT rajfa^^e h me again. 

Asha was.diantable in this Propolal, fohewasjoft 
in the FertomiaBce to a Tittle, fcr he order'd die 5ea- 
BiL-n, that ncoe Ihcu'd offer to tcu;h any thing I liad ; 
then he took every thing into his own follelfion, and 
ga/eme back an exaft Inventory of them, that I might 
Eav6 them again, even fo much as my three Earthenjars. 

As to my Boat, it was a very good one, and that he 
faw, and told me he would buy it of me for the Ship's 
ule, and ask'd me what I would have for it P 1 told him 
he bad been fo s^enercus to me in every thing, that I 
could not oflfcr to make any Price of the Boat, but left 
it entirely to him ; upon which be told me he would 

fve me a Note of his Hand to pay me So Pieces of 
ight for it at hrafil, and when it came there, if any 
one olfer'd to give more, he would make it up ; he of- 
fer'd 



, Google 



(30 



fcr'd ffle alfo '5o Pieces of Eight more for my 'Boy ^ury^ 
which I was loth to wire ; not that I was not willing ttv 
let the Captain have him, but I was v^'ry loth to lell 
the poor Boy's Liberty, who had affilted me fo iltithiiil- 
\y in prociwingmy own. However, when I let him 
know my Realon, he own'd it to he juH, and offer'd ma 
this Medium, that be would give the Boyan Obligation 
to let him free in lo Years, ilheturn'd ChiilUn: Upon 
this, and Xic/ laying lie was wliiing to goto him, 1 let 
the Captain have iiim. 

We bad a very good Voyage to the Brafih, and arriv'd 
in the Bay, di I'cii^s lot Santas, otJIl-Saints-Baji, in about 
21 Days after. And now I wasonce more deliver'd from 
the moll milerable of all Conditions of Life, and what 
to.do next with ray lelfi I was to confider. 

The generous I'reatmenttbeCaptain gave ine, I can 
never enough remember ; he would take nothing of me 
for my Pafljge, g^ve nie 2o Ducats for the Leopard's 
Skin, and 40 for the Lion's Skin which I had in the Boat, 
and cauled every Thing I had in the Ship to be puu» 
ftiially deliver'd me, and what I was willing to fell, he 
bought ;fuch as the Cafe of Bottles, two of myGLinE,anii 
aPiece ofthe Lump of Bees-wax, tor I had made Can- 
dles of the reft ; in a word, 1 msde about 210 Pieces of' 
Eight of all my Cargo, and with this Stock I went on 
Shove inthe5rajj;i. 

I had not been long Jjere, but being recommended to 
the Houfe of a good lionell Man like himfelf, who had 
an Ingenio, as they call it ; that is, a Plantition and a 
Sngar-Houfe, I liv'd with him fome time, and aequain- 
t-edmv folf by chat Means with the Manner of their 
Planting and making of Sugar ; and feeing hoiv well tbj 
Planters liv'd, and how they grew rich fuddainly,* I 
refolv'd, if I could get Licence to fettle there, I wouli 
ttu-n Planter among them reiblving.in the mean time to 
find ottt fome Way to get my Money which I had left 
in Lmdm, remitted to me. To this purpofc, getting, 
a.- kind of a ZHter of Natttrai't^aticn, I purchafed as much 
Land that was Uncur'd, as my Money would reach, 
and form'd a Plan for my Plantation and Settlement^ 
and fuch a one as might be fuitable to the Stock which I 
piopos-'d to my fclf to receive from Emland, 

a 4. t 



Hosted by Google 



(30 

r had a NrigJibour, a Pertu^ucje of Lisbon, tut born of 
^n^liji) ParcmsjWholeNams wasWei'jiand in niuchfuch 
Circumftanees as I was: 1 call him Neighbour, becaufe 
his i'lantition lay nest to mine, and we went on very 
fticiablj' togfther. My Stock was but low as wel! as his; 
and wi rather planted for Food, than any thing eife, 
for about two Years. However, we began to increail^ 
and our Land began to oome intu Order; fo that the 
third Year we planted fume Tobacco, and made each of 
us a large Piece of Ground ready for planting Canes in 
ih; Year to come ; but we both wanted Help ; and now 
I Iburid more than beibre, I had done wrong in parting 
with my iJoy Xury. 

- But alas! for me to do wrong that never did right, 
was no great Wonder: \ had no Remedy but to go on : 
I was gotten into an Employment quite remote to my 
Genius, and direaiy contrary to the Lite I delighted in, 
andfor which I forlookmy Father's Houfe, and broke 
thro' all bis good Advice; nay, I was coming intothe 
very middle Station, or upper Degree ai' low Life,_ 
whi;h my Father advifed me to before, and which, if 
I relolvcd to go on with, 1 might as well have ftaid at 
home, and never have fatigued my felf in the World ast 
had done; and I uled oiten to fay tomy ielf, I could 
have done this as well in En^'and among my Friends, as 
have gone -iooo Miles oiF to do it among Strangers and 
Savages in a Wildernel's, and at fuch a Dillance, as ne- 
Ter tojjear from any-Part of the World that hadtlieleaft 
Knowledge of me. 

In this manner I ufed to look upon my Condition 
with the utmort Kegret. I had no Body to converts 
with, but now and then this Neighbour ; no Work to 
beiroile, but by the Labour of my Hands ; and I ufed 
to fay, I iiv'd juft like a Man cail away upon fome defo. 
late 1 (land, that had no Body there but himfelf. But 
how jail has it been, and how ihould all Men reflcrft, 
that, when they compare thi'ir prefent Conditions with 
others that are worfe, Heaven may oblige them to make 
the Exchange, and be convinced of their former Felici- 
ty, by their linperience : 1 fay, how iufl has it been, that 
the truly foHtary Life I reflefted on in an Ifland of meer 
Dclblation flwuld bemy Lot, who hadfo often unjuftly 



Google 



(33 ) 



compared It with the Life wbicli I then led, in winch 
had [ continued, I liad in all probahility been encceding 
profperous and neb. 

I was in fome Degree fettled ill my Meafares forcirrj'. 
ing on tlie Plantation, before uiy kind Friend the Cap- 
tain of the Ship, that took me up at Sea, went back ; 
for the Ship remained there in providing her Loading, 
and preparing for herVoyage, near three Months ; when 
telling him what little Stock I had left behind me in 
Zentim, he gave me this friendly and fincere Advice; 
Siignior IngUj'e, fays he, (for fo he always call'd me,) if 
you win give me Letters, and a Procuration here in form 
to me with Orders to the Perfon who lias your Mo- 
ney in Z[>»rf(i«, to fend yourESeiSs to Lhbon, to fuch 
Perfons as I ihal! direft, and in fuch Goods as are pro- 
per for this Country, I will bring ycu the Produce of 
them, God willing, at my Return; but lince human 
Affairs are all fubjeA to Changes and Difafters, I 
would have you give Orders but for too /. St;rh which 
you fay is half your Stock, and let the hazard be run foe 
the firll j fo that ifit come fafe, yoa may order the reft 
the fame way ; and ifit mifca^ry, you may have the o- 
iher half to have Recourfe to for your Supply. 

This was fo wholfome Advice, and Icok'd fo friendly, 
that I could not hut be convinc'd it was the beft Courfe 
I Could take ; fo I accordingly prepared Letters to the 
Gentle^vonicn with whom I had left my Money, and a 
Procuration to the }'crtu_^uefe Captain, as he delired. 

I wrote the E»gii/fc Captain's Widow a full Account 
ofall my Adventures, my Slavery, Efcape, and how t 
had met with the Pcrtugal Captain at Sea, theHuma. 
nity of his Behaviour, and in what Condition I vsas 
now in, with all other necelTary Direftions for my Sup- 
ply; and when this honeft Cant, came to Lishcm, he found 
means by Ibme of theE«^/(/?i Merchants there, to fend o- 
ver not the Order only, but a full Account of mj Story 
to a Merchant at Lovdm, who prefented it efFeiftually to 
her ; whereupon jTie not only delivered the Money, but 
out of her own Pocket Tent the P(irtt.y_al Captain"a very 
handlbme Prefent for his Humanity and Charity to mc. 

The Merchant in Londcn veiled this ico I. in Er.f^lifh 

Coods.fuchasihe Captain had wriienforjfentihcm di- 

leillv 



Ogle 



(34) 

reftly to Jiittiat Ziskit, and lie brought them all fafi; to 
iJie totbe Brtfils j among which, wicUoiic my Direiftion 
(for 1 was too young in my Bufiners to think of theiiij 
he had taken care to have all Soits ot Tools, Iron-work, 
and Utenlils neceilary tor my Plantation, and which 
were of great Uleto me. 

When this Cargo arriv'd, I thought my Fortune made, 
for I was furprii'd with thejoy otit; and mygoodStew- 
ard the Captain had laid out the "j /. which my Friend 
had fent him for a Prelent for himfelf, to purchafe, and 
bring me orer a Servant under Bond for lis Years Ser- 
vice, and would noi acce[)t of anyConfideration, eitcepe 
a little Tobacco, which 1 would have him accept) being 
of my own Produce. 

Neither was this all ; but my Goods being all Englijh 
ManufaiSures, fueh as Cloth, Stuff, Bays, and Things 
particularly valuable and defirable in the Country, ( 
found means to iell them to a very great Advantage ; fo 
that I may fay, I bad more than four times the Valu-^ 
of my firft Cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my 
yoor Neigbour, Imeanin the Advancement of my Plan- 
tation ; lor the firft Thing 1 did, I bought me a N^- 
grce Slave, and an Eunfsan Servant alfo ; I mean ano- 
ther befides tliat which the Captain brought me from 

But asabufed Profperlty is oftentimes made tl.e very 
Means of ourgreateft Adverfity, fo was it with me. ( 
went on the next Year with great Succels in my Planta- 
tion : t raifed 'jO great Rolls of Tobacco on my own 
Ground more than I had difpofed of for NecelTaries a- 
inong my Neighbours; and the fe 50 Rolls beii.g each 
ot above a 100 /*. Wt.-mtxt well cur'd and laid by, a- 
eainft the Return of the Fleet Irom Lhban. And now 
Eicreafing in Bufinefs and Wealth, my Head began to be 
Jul! of Prcjefts and Undertakings beyond my Reach 5 
liich as are in deed often the Ruin of the the beft H«ads 
inEufinels. 

Had I continued in the Station I was now in, I had 
room for all the happy Things to have y^t befallen me, 
for which my Father fo earneftty recommended a quiet 
retired Life, and which he had,- fo fenfihly defcribed 
■the middle Station ot Life to be- full of; but other 



r 3f J 

Things attended me, and I was dill to be tlie wilful A- 
gent ot'.il] my own Milerits;and particularly to encreafe 
my Fault, and double theRefleftions upon my, felf" which 
in my future Scrrows I ihould have Leilure to make : 
Ail tbefeMircarriages were procured by my apparent ob- 
ftinate adhering to my tbolifli Inclination ot wandring. 
abroad, and purfuing that Inclination, in Co ntradidion 
to the cleareft Views of doing my felt good in a fairand 
plain Puriuit of thofe Profpefts and thole Mcafures of 
Life, which Nature and Providence concurred to pre- 
fent me witJi, and to make my Duty 

As I had once done thus in breaking away from my 
Parents, fo I could not be content now, but i mull: go 
and leave the happyViewl had, of being a rich and a thri- 
ving Man in my new Plantation, only to puriue a ralit. 
and immoderate Defire of rifing (after than the Nature 
of the Things admitted ; and thU5 I cart my felf down, 
again into the deepeft Gulph of human Milevy that ever 
IVjan fellinto, er perhapscould be confiftent with Life 
and a State' of Health in the World. 

To come then by juft Degrees to the Particulars of 
this Part of my Story ; Ycu may liiiipofe, that having 
now lived almoft four Years in the Brajiis, and begin- 
ning to thrive and profper very well upon my Plantar 
tJon, I had not only learned the Language, but had con- 
traced Acquaintance and Friendjhip among my Felf 
16w-ilanters, as well as among the Merchants ar J^., 
Salvudre, which was our Port ; and that in my Dii^ 
courfe among them, I had frequently given them an ac- 
count of my two Voyages to the Coaft oi' GuiiKj; the 
manner of Trading with the J^rwj there, andhowealy. 
it was to purchale upon the Coaft, for TrWes ffuch as 
Beails, Tiys, Knives, Sdjfars, Matcbsts, BHs of O'afi, 
andihe likej cot or]]y Gold- Duji, Gumj-Grahis. Ele-- 
pbtnts'Teetlj, &c. hut Negroes for the Service ot thi: 
Sraftls, in great Ntimbers. 

They liftened ilways very attentively to my Dilcour- 
fes on thefe Heads, but efpecially to that part which re- 
lated to the buying Nigrces, which was a Trade at that 
time not only not far entered into, but as far as it was, 
had l>een cajried on by the Affiento's, or Permilfion, of- 
Hx K-ings of^ft] and Portugal-^ and engrofs'd in tlis- 
Tub I 



Google 



{ sO 



Publick Stock ; fo that few Negroes were brought, ani 
thofe exceflive dear. 

It h3p|)en'd, bsing in Company one Day with fome 
Merchants andplanters of niyAquaintancejand taliiing ai' 
thofe things very earneilly,three of them came to me the 
next Morning, and told nie they had been muling very 
iim:b upon what 1 had dircouiled of with them the laft 
Ki^ht, and they came to make a fecret Propoial to me, 
and after enjoining me Secrecy, they told me that they 
had a mind to fit out a Ship to go to Gainer ; that they 
had all Plantations as well as I, and were flraitned for 
nothing fo mu;h as Servants; that as it was a Trade 
that could not puWickly Tell the Nr'^qroes when they 
came borne, fo tliey defired to make but one Voyage, 
to bring the Ni^r.'es on Shore piivately, and divide 
th.-m aiii^Jng their own Plantations ; and in a Word, the 
i^ieftioo was, whether 1 would go their Super-Cargo in 
the Ship, to manaije tlie Trading Part upon the Coaft 
oiGainey? And they otE^r'd me that I fliould have my 
equal Shareof the Negroes, without providing any Part 
of the Stock- 

Thiswasa fairFropofal, it muft bs contefs'd. had It 
been made to any one that had not had a Settlement and 
riantation of his own to look after, which was in a fair 
way of coming to he very conllderable, and with agood 
Sto k upon it. But lor me that was thus eftabhJh'd, 
an J had nothing to do but go on as 1 had begun, for 
three or four Years more, and to have Tent for the other 
100 /. from EiK.!an4, and who in that Tims, and with 
that little Addition, eculd lcar:e have fail'd of being 
worth 1 or 4000 /. i'teWiBO, and that en:reafing too} 
for ms to think orfu;h a Voyage, was the moil prepof- 
teroiifthing that ever Man in liich Circumllances could 
fc guilty of 

But I that was born, to be my own Defi:ro)'er, could 
no more refill t'le Offer than I could rcftrain myfirft 
rambling Oeligns, when my Father's good Counlelwas 
was loft upon me. In a Word, I told them I would 
go with all my Heart, if they would undertake to look 
after my Plantation in my ^ bfence, and wculi difpofe 
Of it to iu;has I (hould direJi, if 1 mifcarried. This. 
they all enga^^d to do, and entered into Writing, or 
Cove- 



Go Ogle 



(37) 

Covenants, todofoj and I made a formal Will, difpo- 
iing of my plantation and Effefts, in cafe of my Deach, 
making tlie Captain oftbe Ship that had Ikv'd my Life, 
as before, my univerlal Heir, hut obliging him to dif- 
poie of my EtFefts as ( had direfted in my Will, one 
bali"of the Produce being to himfelfj and the otber to 
be fhipp'd to England. 

In ihort, I took all podible Caution to preferve my 
Effefls, and to keep up my Plantation ; had I ufed half 
as much Prudence to have loolt'd into my own Intereft, 
and have made a Judgment of what I ought to have 
done, and not to have done, I had ci'rtainly nevergonc 
away from fo profperousan Undertaking, leaving all tlie 
the probable Views of a thriving Cireumftance, and 
gone upon a Voyage to Sea, attended with all its com- 
mon Hazards ; to lay nothing of the Realbns I had to 
expeft particular Mistbrtuncs to my felf. 

But I was huiried on, and obey'd blindly the Dic- 
tates of my Fancy rather than my Reafon : And accord- 
ingly the Ship being fitted out, and the Cargo furniih'd, 
and all things done as by Agreement, by my Partnei-sin 
the Voyage, I went on board in an evil Hour again, 
the ift ot i'fff. i6i9, being the fame Day eight Years 
that I wenttrom my Father and Motlier at HjS, in or- 
der to aA the Rebel to their Authority, and the Fool to 
my own Intereft. 

Our Ship was about i20 Tun Burthen, carried 6 
Guns and 14 Men, beiides the Mafter, his Boy, and 
my felf; we had on board no large Cargo of Goods, 
Cjteept ofiu:h Toysaswerefit forourTrade with the 
JVf|™i, liich as Beads, Bits of Glafs, Shells, and odd 
Trifles, efpecially little Looking-Glafles, Knives, Si^f- 
fers, Hatchets, and the like. 

The fame Day I went on board, we fee Sail, (landing 
away to the Northward upon our own Coaft, with 
defign to ftretch over for the Af'icnn Coaft, When 
tliey came into about 10 or 12 D^recs of NorthernLiti- 
tube, which it feems was the manner of their Courfe 
in'thole Days : We had very good Weather, only excel^ 
five hot, all the Way upon our own Coaft, till we came 
to the Height o?Caps SI. A'igi'lltnc, from whence keep- 
ing farther oif at Sea, we bft fight of Land, andfteer'd 



Google 



( 38T 

asiT wc were bound for the \Rq Ferriand^e Noranha, hold- 
ing our Ccurfe N.E- by N. and leaving thole lilts on 
ilic E.ift. In this Courle we paft the Line in about 1 2 
Dajstime, and were bycui- laft Oblbrvarion in 7 De- 
grees 22 ^ Jn.Nortlicrn Latitude, when a violtnt J'-nf- 
nofii T Hurrieanej took us quite out of our Knowledgs ; 
it began ti-<jni the ioulh-Eall, came abnic to tlie Nonli- 
■Well, and thtn litcled into the North. Eaft, from 
whence it blew in fiich a terrible manner, that for 1 iDavs 
tog.ther weeculddo nothing but drive; and fcuddinga- 
waybetbre it, let it carry us wherever Fate and the 
l-'uryctthc Winds direfted ; and during thele 12 Days, I 
need not fay, thatle^peded every Daytobc Iwallowed 
up, nor did any in the Ship expert to lave their Lives. , 

In this Dillrefs we had, befides the Terror of the 
Storm, one of cur Men died of theCalenturc, and one 
Man and the Boy walVd oyer-bcard. About the 12(6 
Day the Weather abating a little, the Mailer made an 
Obfervation as well as he could, and lound that he was, 
in about 11 Degrees North Tjatitude, but that he was 
22Degreesof Longitude DifFtrence Weft from Cape St. 
^guliirt", fo that he fuund he was.gotten upon the Coaft 
of Guiana, or the North Part oi' Utaftt, beyond the 
River AMa;cinss, toward that of the River Orooncqm^ 
commonly called the Great Sivsr ; and now he began 
to confult with me what Ccurfe he Ihould take, for tbo 
Ship was leaky, and very much difabled, and he wa> 
for going dircaiy back to the Coaft of Bfa/i/, 

I was pofitively againiV that, and looking over the 
Charts of the 3ea-Coaft of j^wewa with him, we con- 
cluded there was no inhabited Country for us to have 
rtccarfe to, till we came within the Circle of the Carib- 
b^e Iflamb, and therefore refolved to ftand away forBiw- 
badoes, which by keeping off at Sea, to avoid the In- 
draught of the Bay or Gulph ai Mexico, vie might eafily 
perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen Days Sail ; where- 
as, ive could not pcflibly make our Voyage to the Coaft: 
of Africa, without fome AlEftance both to our Ship and. 

With this Defign we chang'd our Coitrrc, and fteer'd'. 
sway N. W. by VV. in order to reach fome of our En- 
lijh Iflands, where I hoped, for Relief ; but out Voyage* 



Google 



was otlierwire determined, for being in the Latitude of 
la Deg. iS, Mill, alecond Storm cameuponiis, wliidi 
carry'dus away with the fame Iiiipttuolity Weilvvard, 
and drove us fa out of the very way of all human Com- 
merce, that had all our Lives been laved, as to the Sea, 
nc were rather in danger ot'being devoured by ::avages, 
than ever returning to our own Country. 

In this Diftrelb, the Wind IHll blowing very hard. 
One of cur Men, early one Morning, cn'd out, land ^ 
and we had no Iboner run out of the Cabin to look out^ 
in hopes of feeing whereabouts in the World we were, 
but the Ship ftruik upon a sand, and in a Moment, her 
Motion being lb ftnpp'd, the Sea broke over her in luch 
a manner, that we expefted we Ihould all have perifh'd 
immediately; and we were even driven into our 
dole Quarters; to Ihclter us Irom the very Foam and 
Spryeofthe Sea- 
it is not eafy tor any one, wlio has not been in the 
like Condition, to defcrihe or conceive the Confterna- 
tion of Meninfuch Circumftances ; we knew nothing, 
where we were, or upon what Land it was we were 
driver, whether an Illand or the Main,, whether inha- 
bited or not inhabited ; and as the Rage of the Wind 
was ftill great, tho' rather lets than at firft, we could 
not fo much as hope to have the Ship hold many Mi-> 
rutes without breaking, in Pieces, unlefs the Winds by 
a kind of Miracle ftiould turn immediately about, liv 
a Wordj we lat looking one upon another, and expec- 
ting Death every Moment, and every &fen aifting ac- 
cordingly, as preparing for another World; ior there 
was little or nothing more for us to do in this: That 
which was our prefent Comfort, and all the Coiijfert 
we had, was, that contrary to our Expeftaiion the Ship 
did not break yet, and that the Mafter faid the Wind 
began to abate. 

Now tho' we thought that the Wind did a little 
abate, yet the Ship having thus llruck upcB the Sand, 
and IHcking too faft for us to expeft her getting off, 
we were in a dreadiul Condition indeed, and had no- 
thing Co do but to think of faving our Lives as well as 
we could. We had a Boat at our Stern, juft l>efore tha 
Stcrmj but ihe was firft ftav'd by dalhingagainft the 
Sbip'9 



Google 



Uo) 



Ship's Rudder, and in the next Place ilie broke aivay, 
and eitlier funk or was driven oS Co Sea, (b there vvas 
ro Hope from her : We had another Boat on board, 
but liow to get her off into the Sea, was a doubtful 
tiling ; however, there was no room to debate, foi- 
we fancied the Ship would break in pieces every 
Minute ; and foUie told us, ihe was attually broken 
already. 

In this Diftrcfs the Mate of our Veifel lays hold of 
tlieBoat, and with the help of the reft of the Men, they 
got her flung over the Ship's fide, and getting all into 
■jKr, let go, and committed our felves, being Eleven in 
l^mmber, to God's Mercy, and the wild Sea ; tor tho' 
the Storm was abated confiderably, yet the Sea went 
dreadlijl high upon the Shore, and might well be calVd 
Den -Willi Zee, ai the Dutch call the Sea in a Storm. 

And now our Cafe was very difmal indeed; for we 
all faw plainly, that the Sea went lb high, that the 
Boat could not live, and that we jliould be inevitably 
drowned. As to making Sail, we had none, nor, if we 
had, could we have done any thing with it ; fo we 
work'd at the Oar towaids the f^nd, tho' with heavy 
" Hearts, like Men going to Execution ; for we all knew, 
tisat when the Boat came nearer the Shore, fiie would 
6e dalh'd in a tboufand Pieces by the Breach of the Sea. 
However, we committed our Souls to God in the moil 
earned manner, and the Wind driving us towards the 
Shore, we hallen'd our Deftruiiion with our own Hands, 
pulling as well as we could towards Land. 

What the Shore was, whether Rock or Sand, whether 
Steep or Shoal, we knew not; the only Hope that could 
rationally give us tlie leaft Shadow of Expeftation, was, 
if Vc might happen into (ome Bay or Gulph, or the 
Mouth oflbme EUver, where by great Chance ive might 
have run our Boat in, or got under the Lee of the Land, 
and perhaps made (inooth Water. But there was no- 
thing of this appeared ; but as we made nearer and 
nearer the Shore, the Land look'd more frightful than 
the Sea. 

After we had row'd, or rather diiven about a 
League and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging Wave, 
Moiintain-]ike, camerowling a-ftcjn ofus, aad plainly 



bid 

Google 



(41 ) 



HA us expeft the Oup dt c^ce. In a word, it took us 
with fuch a Fury, that it overfet the Boat at once, and 
feparstirg us as well from the Boat, as ftom one an- 
(ither, gave us not time hardly to fay, O God I for we 
were all iwallowed up in a Moment. 

Nothinj; can defcribe the Coufufion of Thought 
which I felt when I liink into the Water ; for tho' I 
fwam very well, yet I could rot deliver my felffrom 
the Waves fo as to draw Breath, till that Wave hav- 
ing driven me, or rather carried me a vaft Way on to- 
wards the Shore, and having fpent it felf, went back, 
and left nie upon the Land almoft dry, hut halt dead 
with the Water I took in ; I had {o much Prefence of 
Jviind, as well asBreath left, that feeing my felf nearer 
the main Land than I expeifted, I got upon my Feet, 
and endeavoured to make on towards the Land as fait 
as [ could, before another Wave fliould return, and taks 
me up again. But 1 foon found it was impoliible to 
avoid it ; for I faw the Sea come aitei* me as Ingli as a 
great Hill, and as furious as an Enemy, which I had 
Bo Means or Strength to contend with ; itiy Bufinefs 
was to h(jld my Breath, and vaile my felf upon the 
Water, if I could, and fo by fwimming to preferve my 
Breathing, and pilot my ielf towards the Shore, ifpof- 
fible ; my greateft Concern now being, that the Sea, as 
it would carry me a great Way towards the Shore when 
if came on, might not carry me back again with it 
when it gave back towards the Sea. 

The Wave that came upon me again, buried me at 
once 2oor ^oFoot deep in its own Body; and I could 
feel my felf carried ivith a mighty Foice and Swiftneis 
towards the Shore a very great Wa)' ; hut I held my 
Breath, and affiiled my ielf to fwim fHli forward wiHi 
all my Might. I was ready to burft with holdirg my 
Breath, when, as 1 felt my felf rifing up, Co, to my 
immediate Reliefj I found my Head and Hands flioot 
out above the Surface of the Water; and tho' it was 
not two Seconds of Time that I could keep my felf fo, 
yet it reliev'd me greatly, gave me Breath and new 
Courage. I was covered again with Water a good 
while, but not fo long hut I held it out ; and finding the 
Vater had fpent it iVlii and began to return, I ftruck 
forward 



, Goc^Ie 



(4^ ) 

fiirward againfl the Retfii'n of the Waves, and felc 
Ground again witli my Feet. I ftood (till a few Mo- 
ments to recover Breath, and till the Water went from 
nie, and then took to my Heelsj and run with what 
Strength I had farther Cowards the Shore. But neither 
would this deliver me from the Fury of the Sea, which 
came pouring in after me again, and. twice more I w as- 
lifted up by the Wavesj and carried forwards as before, 
tlie Shore being very ilat. 

The laft time ofthefetwo bad well near been fatal 
tome; for the Sea having hurried me along as before, 
landed me, or rather dalh'd me againft a piece of a 
Rock, and tliat with fuch Force, as it left me fenfclefs, 
and indeed heiplefs, as to my own Deliverance; for the 
Blow taking my Side and Brcaft, beat the Breath as- 
it were quite out of my Body ; and had it returned a- 
gain immediately, I muft have been ftrangled in the 
Water ; but I recover'd a little before the Return of the 
Waves; and feeing I lliould be cover'd again with the- 
Water, I refolv'd to hold fall by a piece of the Rock, 
and fj to hold my Breath, if pofiible, till the Wave 
went back. Now as the Waves were not fo high as ac 
iirft, being near Land, I held my Hold, till the Wav* 
abated, and then fetch'd another Run, which brought 
me fo near the Shore, that the next Wave, though it 
went over me, yet did not fo fwailow me up, as to car- 
ry me away; and t e next Run I took, I got to the 
main Land, where, to my great Comfort, I clanibtr'd 
up the Clifts of the Shore, and fat me down upon the 
Gfrafs, free from Danger, and quite out of the Reacii 
of tlie Water. 

I was now landed, and lafe on Shore, and began to 
look up and thank God, that my Life was fav'a in a 
Cafe wherein there was fome Minutes before fcarce any 
room to hope, I believe it is impolTible to exprefs to. 
the Life, what the Extailes and Tranfports of the Soul 
are, when it is fo faved, as I may fay, out of the very 
Grave ; and I do not wonder now at that Cuftom, vi^. 
That when a Malefaftor, who has the Halter about bis. 
Neck, is tied up. and jufl going to be turn'd off, and 
has a Reprieve brought to him ; f fay, I do not won- 
der that, they brin^ a Surgeon vsith it, to let himBlood 
ihit 



Google 



(43) 

that very Moment they tell him of it, that the Sm- 
piiie may not drive the Animal Spirits from the Heart, 



Fcrfudden Joys, like Gritfs, confound at fi'fl . 

I walk'd. about on the Shore, lifting up my Hands, 
and my whole Being, as I may fav, wrapt up in the, 
Contemplation of my Deliverance, making a thouland 
Gefturts and Motions, which I cannot delcribe, reflec- 
ting upon a!l my Comrades that were drown'd, and 
that there Ihould not be one Soul iav'd but my felt"; 
tor as ibr them, I never faw them afterwards, or any 
Sign of them, except three of their HatSj one Cap, and 
two Shoes, that were not Fellows. 

I caft my Eyes to the ftranded Veffel, when the 
Breach and Froth of the Sea being fo big, I could hard- 
ly lee it, it lay ib far off, and confideieil, Lord! how 
ivas it poffible [ could get on ihore ! 

Atttri had lb lac' d my Mind with the comfortable 
part of my Condition, I began to look round me, to 
lee what kind of Place I was in, and what was nest to 
be done; and I loon found my Comforts abate, and that, 
in a Word, I had a dreadlul Deliverance; fori was 
wet, had noCloaths to fliiltme, nor anything either 
to eat or drink to comfort me; neither did 1 fee any 
Profpeft beiore me, but that of periihing with Hunger,, 
cr being devoup'd by wild Beads s And that which was 
particularly affliaing to me, was, that I had no Weapon 
either to hunt and Kill any Creature for my Suftenance, 
or to defend iny ielf againfl any other Creature that 
might defire to kill me tor theirs ; In a Word, I had. 
nothing about me but a Knife, a Tobacco-pipe, ani« 
little Tobacco in a Box : This was all my Provifion, and 
this threw me into teriible Agonies of Mind, that for a 
while I run about like a Mad-man. Nigjit coming up- 
on me, I began with a heavy Heart to confider what 
would be my Lot, if there were any ravenous Beafls in 
that Country, f«ing aC Night they always come abroad 
tor their Prey. 

All the Remedy that offer'd to my Thoughts at that 

time, was, to get up into a thick buihy Tree like a Fir, 

but 



.;,G00' 



t 



(44) 

but thorny, which grew neartiie, atid where I refoly'd 
to fit all Night, and confider the next Day what Death 
I fliould die, for as jet I faw no Trofpeft of Life. I 
walk'd about a Furlong from the Shore, to i'ee if 1 could 
find any frefli Water to drink, which I did, to my 
great Joy ( and havirg drank, and put a little Tobacco 
in my Mouth to prevent Hunger, 1 went to the Tree, 
and getting up into it, endeavour'd to place my felf lb, 
as that if I Jhould fleep, I might not fall ; and having 
cut me a fliort Stick, like a Truncheon, for niy De- 
fence, I took up my Lodging, and having iieen excef- 
fively facigu'd, I fell faft alleep, and ilept as comfor. 
tably, as 1 believe few could i ave done in my Condi- 
lion, and found my lelf the moft rei'reftied with it, that 
I think 1 ever was on fu;h an Occafion. 

When I wak'd, it was broad Day, the Weather clear, 
and the Storm abated, fo that the Sea did not rage 
and fwelt as before; But that which furprii'd me 
moft, was, that the Ship was lifted off" in the Night 
from the Sand where Ihe hy, by the Swt-lling of the 
Tide, and was driven up almoft as far as the Rock, 
which I firft menticn'd, where [ had been fo bruis'd by 
tlie dalhing me againft it; this beiofi wit'nin about 
a Mile from the '^hore where ! was, aiid the ■■hip feein- 
ing to ftand upright .till, I wifh'd my felf on board, 
that, at leaft, I iiiii;hc favc fome n-jceifary Things for 
my Ufe. 

When I came down from my Apartment in the 
Tree, I look'd about me again, and the firft thing I 
found, was the Boat, which lay as the Vi ijul and the 
Sea had tols'd her tip upon the ..and, about two Miles 
on my Right Hand: i walk'd as far as I could upon 
thcShorc to have got to her, but found a Neck or ink't 
of Water between me and the Boat, which was about 
lialfa Mile broad ; fo I came back for the prefent, be- 
ing more iiitL'nt upon getting at the Ship, wherclhop'd 
to find fonieihing for my prefent SubfiLlence. 

A little after i-ioon I found the Sea very calm, and 
tile 1 ide ebb'd fo far out, that I could come within 
a Quarter of a Mile of the Ship: And here I found a. 
frefli renewing of iny Grief; for I faw evidently, that 
if we had kept on board, we had been all fafe, that is 
to 

I Good 



(45) 

to Cay^ we had all got fafe on Shore, an5 I had not 
been fo miferable as to be Icfb entirely deftitute of all 
Comfort and Company, as I now >vas : This forced 
Tears from my Eyes again, but as there was little Re- 
lief in that, I relblv'd, ifpoflible, to get to the Ship; 
fo I puU'd off my Cloaths, for the Weather was hot 
to Ejttrejiiity, and took the Water i but when T came to 
the Ship, my Difficulty was Hill greater to know how 
to get on board, for as flie lay a-grcund, and high out ot' 
the Water, there was nothing within my Reach to lay 
hold of; I fwam round her twice, and the fecond time 
I elpy'd a Imall piece of Rope, which I wonder'd i did 
not lee at firft, hang down by the Fore-Chains lb low, 
as wiih great Difficulty I got hold of it, and by the 
Help of that Rope, got up into the Fore-caftle of the 
Ship. Here I found that the Ship was bulg'd, and 
had a great deal of Water in her Hold, but that Jlie lay 
ib on the Side of a Bank of hard Sand, or ratha' Earth, 
that her Stern lay lifted up upon the Bank, and herHead 
low almoft to the Water ; by this means all her QaarCer 
was free, and ail that was in that Part was dry ; for 
yoii ma-y be fuve my Work was to learch and to fee 
what was fpoil'd, and what was free ; and firft I found, 
that all the Ship's Provilions were dry, and untoueh'd 
hy the Water, and being very well difpoled to eat, I 
went to the Bread-room and fiU'd my Pockets with 
Bisket, and eat it as I went about other things, for I 
had no Time to lofe. I alfo found i'onie Rum in the 
great Cabin, of which I took a large Dram, and which 
1 had indeed need enough of, to fpirit me for what was 
before me. Now I ivaiited nothing but a Boat to fur- 
niJii mjfelfwith many things which I forefaw wojijd 
be very necelfary to me. 

It was in vain to lit ftill and wiJh for what was not to 
be had, and this Extremity roui'd my Application. 
We had feveral fpare Yards, and two or three large 
Sparrs of Wood, and a fpare Top-Maft or two in the 
Ship; I refolv'd tofalito work with thefe, and flung 
as many of them over-board as I could manage for their 
Weight, tying every one with a Rope that they might 
I not drive away ; when this was done, I went down the 
\ Ship's Side, and pulling them tg rae, I ty'd four of 
\ ^^^"^ 



(4«> 



them faft together at both Ends as well as I coald, in 
the Font! of a ftal't, andl:i)ing Hvj or three fliort I'ie- 
ccsof J'.lank upon them crofs-V. aj-s; I ft/und 1 could 
walk upon ii very well, but that it ivas nut able to bear 
an)' ^r=at Weight, the Pieces being too li^ht ; fo 1 went 
to work, and with tlie Carpenter's Saw i cut a fpare 
Top malHntu three Lengths, and added them to my 
Raft, W[th a great deal ot I^bcur and I'ains ; ImiE the 
Hope of turniiiiing n<y il-lt with Neeeflaries, ejn:ou- 
raged me to go bsy^nd what 1 Ihould have been able 
to have done upon another OcuafJun, 

Wy Rat'twas now ftrong enough to bear ary reafona- 
b!e Weight ; my mxt Cure was what to load it with, 
and how to preferve whit I laid upon it tram the iurf 
oftheSea; but I was not long conlidering this; IJirft 
laid all the Planks or Boards upon it that I could get, 
and having conlider'd well what I jwoII wanted; 1 
iirft gotrhree of the Seamens Cheils, which I had bro- 
ieii open and empty'd, and loner'd them down upun 
my Raft ; the firft ot thefe 1 fitl'd with Provifions, wj. 
Dread, Rice, three Dutch Cheefcs, Jive Pieces of dry'd 
Goats-Flclh, which we liv'd much upon, and a little 
Remainder of £«'opMB Corn, which had been laid by 
for ibme Fowls whicli we biought to Sea with us, hut 
the Fowls were kill'd ; there had been fome Barley and 
Wheat togetlier, but, to my great Difappointment, I 
found afterwards that the Rats had eaten or fpoil'd it 
all. As for Liquors, I found leveral Cafes ot Bottles 
belonging to our Skipper, in which were fome Cordial 
. Wateis, and in all about five or fit Gallons of Rack ; 
thefe I ftow'd by themfelves, there b^nn^ no need to put 
tji^m intu the C heft, nor any room for them. W liiie 
I was doing this, I found the Tide began to flow, tho' 
very calm, and I had the Mortification to fee my Coat, 
Shirt, and Waftecoat, which I had left on Shore upon 
the Sand, fwim away ; as for iny Breeches, which were 
only Linnen and open-kneed, I I'wam on board in 
them and my Stockings ; However, this put nie upon 
rummaging tor Cloaths, of which I found enough, 
but look no more than I wanted for prefent Ui'e, 
for I had other Things which my Ej-e was more 
-Opou ; as firll, Tools to wark with on Shore, and it 



o.;le 



(47) 

was after long fearcliing that I found out the Carpeii^ 
ter's Chert, wliich was indeed a very uiiiful Priie to 
me, and jimoli more valuable than a Ship-ioading of 
<jold would have been at that cime_j, ! got it down 
to my Rait, even whole as it was, without luiing Tims 
to look into it, tor i knew in general what it coiitain'd. 

hly next Care was tor Ibme Ammunition and Arms ; 
there were two very ^ood Fowling-i iects in tl^e great 
Cabin, and two i'iiiols ; thele I Iccur'd firll, with ibme 
Powder-Horns, and a liuall J3ng ot Shot, and two old 
rulty Swords: 1 knew tliere were three Jiarrcls of lew- 
der hi the bhip, but knew not where our Gunner had 
ftow'd them, but with much Search I found them, two 
of tbtin dry and gcod, tlie third bad taken Water; 
thofe two I g<it to my Raft, with the Arms ■• And now 
I thought my (clt prettj well freighted, and began to 
think how 1 Ihould get lo ihore with rhem, having nei- 
ther Sail, Oar, or Rudder, and the leall Cap full of 
Wind would have overfrt all tny Navigation. 

1 had three Encouragements. 1. A Imooth calm Sea. 
2- The Tide riling and letting into the Shore. 3. What 
little Wind there was, blew me towards tliB Land ; and 
thus, having found two or three broken Oars belonging 
to the Boat, and befides the Icols which, were in the 
Chcft, I found two Saws, an Axe, and a Hammer, and ^ 
with this Cargo I put to Sea : For a Mile or tlierc- 
abouts, my Ratt went very well, only that I found it 
drive a little dillant frcmtbc Place where I had landed 
before, by which I perceiv'd that there was ibme In- 
draught of (be Water, and confcijuently I bup'd to find 
fome Creek ur River there, which I might mal;e ufe of 
as a Port to get to I.and with my Cargo. ^ 

As 1 jmagm'd, To it was ; there appear'd before rile 
a little opening of the Land, and i found a ftrong Cur- 
rent ol the Tide fet into it , To I guided my Raft as 
well as Icuuld to keep in the Middle of the Stream -■ 
But here 1 had like to have iu/Fvr'd a fecond Ship- 
wreck, which, if I liad, 1 think verily would have broke 
my Heart; for knowing nothing of the Coafl, my Rait 
run aground at one End of it upon a Sboal, and not be- 
ing a.ground at the other End, it wanted but a little ■ 
that al! my Cargo had flipp'd off towards that End tliat 



, Google 



(48 ) 

was a.fioat, and fo ftllen into the Water : I did my uW 
cioft by fetting my Back againft the Chefts, to keep' 
them in their places, but could not thruft off the Ratt 
■witb all itiy Strength i neither durft I ftir from the Po- 
fture I was in, but holding up the Chefts with all iiiy 
Miftht, ftuod in that manner rear half an Hour, in 
which time the rifing of the Water brought me a litiie 
more upon a Level ) and a little after, the Water ftilt 
riling, my Raft floated again, and I thruft her off with 
the Oar I had, into the Channel, and then driving up 
higher, I at length found my lelf in the Mouth ot a 
little River, with Land on both Sides, and a ftrong Cur- 
rent or Tide running up. I look'd on both Sides for a 
proper Place to get to Shore, for 1 was not witling to 
be driven too high up the River, hoping m time to 
fee fome Ship at Sea, and therefore refolv'd to place my 
feU as near the Coaft as I could. 

At length I fpy'd a Htrle Cove on the right Shore of 
the Creek, to which with great Pain and Difficulty I 
guided my Raft, and at lalt got fo near, as that, reacli- 
ing Ground with my Oar, 1 could thruft her direftly 
in i but here I bad like to have dipt all my Cargo in 
the Sea again ; for that Shore Ij ing pretty fteep, that 
is to lay. Hoping, there was no I'lace to land, but 
where one End of the Float, if it run on Shore, would 
lie lb high, and the other firk lower as before, that it 
would endanger my Cargo again; All that I could 
do, was to wait till the 1 ide was at the higheft, keep- 
ing the Haft with my Oar, like an Anchor to hold the 
Sideofit faft to the Shore, near a flat Piece ot Ground, 
■ which I expeaed the Water would flow over ; and Co 
it did; As foonas I found Water enough, (for my 
'Raft drew about a Foot of Water) I thruft her upon 
that flat Piece of Ground, and there taften'd, or 
moor'd her, by (licking my two broken Oars into the 
Ground ; one on oneSide near one End, and one on the 
other Side near the other End ; and thus I lay till the 
Water elb'd away, and left my Raft and all my Cargo 
fafe on Shore. 

My next Work was to view the Country, and feek 
a proper Place for my Habitation, and where to ftow 
Biy Gqods, to lecurc them irom whatever might hap- 
pen. 

I Goodie 



ib, Google 



(49 ) 

pn. Where I was, I yet knew not; whether on the 
»-ontinent, oronanlfland; whether inhabited, or not 
inhahuedi whether in Danger ol' Wild Beall. ir not: 
I here was a Hill not above a Mile fr„,„ „. wH-h 
role up verj. »e=p and high, and which leem-d o o.er- 
■ S; lr° ""■",«'"' "1>»1> l«y ". in a Ridge from it 
Northward : I took out one of the Fowlins-Fiee-e,. 
and one of the Pillok, and a, Horn ol^ Powder, S 
A^wn ■"»«"='l »?' Dilbo.er, np to the T^p of 
th.tHjll, where alter 1 had with great Labour and 
Uiftculty got up, lunmediatelyfaw my Fate to m, 
freat All|,ai„„, <„■,.; that I w.s'in an llland „v °o"J 

JomeRoek. which lay a great way off, and two fiil 
the Wen '" "' ' '"' ''""' 'l>'«Le»liu"t" 

I found alfo that the Ma„d I waa in, wa. barren, and. 
Wi d B !; r r '°u'*''""i """'"Mted, except b>" 
Wild Bealfs, of whom however I faw none ^cf I fi.v 
abundance „l Fowls, but knew not their Rinds, neither 
when i kill'dthem, could I tell what was (it Ibr Food 
and what ntit. At my coming back, I Ihot at a ereit 

fZi w "5 ?T ?"°8 "P™ • '''"' °" "" «J« «r« 

been fir d there hnce the Creation of the World. I had 
no fooner fir-d, but Irom .11 the Parts of the WoS 
there arofe an innumer.b e Number ol Fowl, ol miw 
foil., miking a conte-d Screaming, and crying ev7rv 
one according to his ufual Note ' but not one of them 
of any Kind that 1 knew; As for that Creature Ikii™ 
I took It to be a kind of a Hawk, its Colour and Beak 
refeuibling it, butit had no Talons or Claws mSreThS 
common, its Fleihwjs Carrion, and iit lor nothing 
Ra?, aS f i,™,'"" "■? Dilcovery.Icameback to my 
Kalt and fell to work to bring my Cargo on Shori 
which took me up the rell ot that Day f,' ^ 

>vrth my lelf at Night, I knew not, nor in. 
to reil; for 1 was afraid to lie down on the I 
not knowing but lome wild Beaft might dev. 

feiSVe^'"""^'™"'^ "■"" """"y • 

Google 



:fAl?' '."».»l'»ii to lie down on the Ground,, 
gbt devour me, 
really no txed 



( rO 

However, as well as I could, I barrier do'i! my (elf 
round with the Cheih and Boards that 1 had brought 
en Shore, and made a kind of a Hutt for that Night's 
Lodging; as for food, I yet fa w not which way to 
fapply my felf, except that I had feen two or ihrts 
Creatures like Hai'cs, run out of the Wood where I fiiot 
the Fowl. 

I row began to confider, that F might yet get 
a great many things out of the Ship, which would be 
ulelul to ffie, and particularly Ibnie ot the Riggiiig 
and Sails, and iuch other things as might come to hand, 
and I relblv'd to make another Voyage on Board the 
VeiTel, if [wfllble ; and as I knew that the firft Sturm 
that bleiv mufl nece/Farily break her all in Pieces, 1 re- 
folv'd to fet all other things apart, till I got every thing 
out of the Ship tliat 1 could get ; then I call'd a Coun- 
cil, that is to (ay, in my Thoughts, whether I fiiould 
rake back the Kaft, but this appear'd iinpraittcable ; fo 
1 refoWd to go as before, when the Tide was down, and 
I did fo, only that I ftripp'd before I went frojn my 
Hurt, having tiothing on but a cliecquer'd Shirt, a 
pair of Limien Drawers, and a pair of Pumps on my 

I got on Board the Ship as before, and prepar'd a fe- 
cond Raft, and having had Experience of the Jirft, I 
neither made this founiveiidly, nor loaded it fo hard, 
liut yet I brought away feveral things very ufeful to me i 
as fifft, in the Carpenter's Stores! found two or three 
Bags full of Nails and Spikes, a great Skreiv-Jack, a 
dozen or two of Hatchets, and above all, that moft ufe- ' 
fitl thing call'd a Grlndftone; all thefe I fecur'd, toge- 
ther with feveral things belonging to the Gunner, par- i 
ticularly two or thrje'Iron Crowes, and two Barrels of I 
lHulqaet-Btillets, feven Miifquets, and another Fowling- 
Piece, with fome fmall Quantity of Powder more; a 
hrgeBagiilll of fmall Shot, and a great Roll of Sheet 
f^ad 1 but this laft was ib heavy, I could not hdil? it up 
w gel it over the Ship's fide. 

Befides thefe things, I took all the Men's Cloaths thst 

J could find, and^alparePorE-rap-fall, Hammock, an4 

Come Bedding; and with this I loaded my l^ccnd Raft; 

and 



.le 



( s> ) 

anc! brouglit them alfo all fafe on Sliore to my very 
great Comfort. 

I was under fome Apprehenfions during my Abfence 
from the Land, that at leaft my Provifions might be 
devour'd on Shore ; but when I came, back, i found no 
ingn of any Vifitor, only thei-e iat a Creatuie like a 
wild Cat upon one of the Cherts, wliicb when I came 
towards it, ran away to a little Dillancc, and then ftood 
fiil! ; flie iat very compos'd, and unconicrn'd, and look'd 
fall in my Face, as if iiie had a mind i o be acquainted 
with me ; I prefsnted my Gun at her, but as Jhe did not 
underftand it, fte was perfeiftly unconcerned at it, nor 
did Ihe offi;r to ftir away ; upjn which I tofs'd her a bit 
ofBisket, tho' by Che way I was not very free of it, {or 
my Store was not great. However, 1 Ip.ir'd her a bit 
I lay, and Jhe ivent to it, fmeli'd of it, and eat it, and 
look'd (as pleas'djfor more; but I tliank'd her, and 
could I'pare no more, lb flie march'd off. 

Having got my lecond Cargo on Shore, f tho' I was 
fain to open !he Barrels of Powder, and bring them by 
Parcels, for they were too heavy, being laige Casks) £ 
went to work to make me a little Tent with the iail 
and fome Poks which I cut for that Purpoie ; and into 
this Tent I- brought every Thing that I knew would 
fpoil, either with Rain, oi Sun, and I piled all the 
empty Chcfts and Casks up in a Circle round the Tent, 
to toi'til>- it from an>- fudden Attempt, either from 
Man or Beaft. 

When I had done this. I block'd up the Door of tho 
Tent with fome Boards within, and an empty Cheft fet 
up an End without, and fpreading one of the Beds aput 
the Ground, laying my two Fiftols juft at my Head, 
and my Gun at Length hy me, I went to bed for the ■ '' 
firft time, and llept very quietly all Night : I was 
very weary and heavy, for the Night before I had flept 
little, and had labour'd very hard all Day, as well to 
fetch tlwfe Things from the Ship, as to get them on 

I had the biggeft Magaiine ot all Kinds now that 

ever were laid up, I believe, for one Man ; but I was 

not fatisfied ftill; for while ttie Ship fat upright in rat 

^ofture, I thought I ought to get every thirg out of 

D 2 her 

I Google 



(p) 



hcrtliat I could ; fo every day at low Water X went' on 
hoard, and brought away rometliing or other : But par- 
ticularly the third time I went, I brought away as 
tiuich of the Rigging as I could, as alio al! the fmall 
Rapes and llope-twine I could get, with a piece of fparc 
CanvaSj whidi was to mend the Sails upon oecafion, 
and the Barrel of wet Gun-powder : in a Word, I 
brought away all the Sails firft md laft, only that I 
w/is fain to cut them in Pieces, and bring as much at a 
time as i could; for they were no more uieliil to mC 
for 5ails, but as tiieer Canvas only. 

But that which comforted me more ftil), was, that at 
lall of all, after I had- made five or fix luch Voyages 
as thefe, and thought I had nothing more to espsa 
trom the Ship, that was worth my medlingwith; I fay, 
after all tliis, I found a great HogiUead of Bread, 
three large Runlets of Rum or Spirits, a Box of fine Su- 
gir, and a Barrel of fine Flower ; this was furprizing 
to me, becsui'e I had given over expecting any more 
Provifions, except what was fpoil'd by the Water. I 
foon emptied the Hogihead of that Bread, and wrapt 
it up. Parcel by Parcel, in Pieces of the Sails, which I 
.out put; and in a Word, I got all this fate on Shore 
aU"^' tho' at fevera! times/ 

The next Day 1 made another Voyage ; and now 
having plunder'd the Ship o( what was portable, and 
fit to ha P-d out, I began with the Cables; and cutting 
the great Cable into Pieces, fuch as I could move, 1 
got two Cables and a Haulier on Shore, with all the 
Iron-work I could get; and having cut down the Sprit- 
.^ijiil-yard, and the Mile n -yard, and every thing I could 
.•nuakea large Raft, I loaded ic u ith all thofe heavy 
iGoods, and came away r But my good lAick began now 
to leave me', tor this Raft was fo unweildy, and !b over- 
laden, that after I was enter'd the little Cove, wliere 
I had Iw.dedthe reft of my Goods 1 not being able to 
guide it fo handily as I did the other, it overfet, and 
threw me and all my Cargo into the Water; As for 
my lelf it was no great Harm, for [ was near the Shore ; 
hut as to my Cargo, it was great part of it loft, efpe- 
rially the Iron, which I expefted would have been of 
great Ofe to me : However, when the Tide was our, , 



Google 



(53) 

I got nioft of tlie Pieces of Cable aJhore, and fonie ot 
the liiiti, tho' wicli infinite Labour, for f was tain lo 
dip Tor it into the Water, a Work ivliich faiigu'd ms 
Tery much ; after tliis, I went every Daj- on Board, 
and brought away whit I could get. 

! had been now 13 Days on Shure, and had b;en 11 
times on Board tlie Ship ; in which time [ bad brought 
away all, that one pair of Hands could well lie I'uppos'd 
capable to bring, tho' 1 believe verily, had the cahn 
Weather held, 1 ihould have brousht away the wbole 
Ship, rieee by Piece: But preparing the istb lime to 
goon Board, I found the Wind began to rife; how- 
ever, at low Water I went on Board, and tho' I thought 
J bad rummaged the Cabin fo efft'ftually, as that nothing 
more could be found, jet I dil'covered a Locker with 
Drawers in it, in one oi" which 1 found two or three 
•Razors, and one pair of large Sciflars, with ten 
or a doien good Knives and Forks ; in another I 
found about thirty fix pounds Value in Money, fonie 
■B«n/^eiwCoin, iome Brajilf Ibme Pieces of Eight, Tome 
Gold, fome Silver. 

I fmil'd to my felfat the fight of this Mon^y. O 
Drugiya/rf / ai-rtJ, wliat art thou gotid for ■• Thtu 
art nflt worth to me, nO not the taking off of the Ground; 
one of thofe Knives is worth all this Heap ; 1 have no 
manner of ufe for thee, e'en remain where thou art, 
and go to the Bottom as a Creature wliote Life is not 
worth faving: However, upon fecond Thoughts, I 
took it away, and wrapping all this in a Piece ul' Can- 
vas, I began to think of making another Raft; but 
while I was preparing this, I found the Sky over-cait, 
and the Wind bfegan to rife, and in a quarter of an Htgi^ 
it blew a frefli Gale from the Sliore ; it prelemly oc- 
cur'd to me, that it was in vain to pretend to make a 
Rati, with the Wind ofl' Shore, and that it was my Cu- 
finefs to be gone Iwfore the Tide of Flood began, other- 
wife I might rot be able to reach the Shore at all ; Ac. 
xordingl)" i let my felf down into the Water, and fwam 
crofs the Channel, which lay botweeft tlie Ship and tlie 
Sands, audeven that with Difficult^ enough, partly 
with the weight of the things I had alwut me, and 
partly the Roughnefs of the Water, for the Wind vafe 
D 3 ver/ 



.Google 



(14) 

very !ialWy, and before it was quite hia'i Water, It 
bkwaJtomi. 

Hut 1 was gotten home to my little Tent, where I 
l:^y vvitli all my Wealth about nie very fecure : It blew 
verj' hard-all that Night, and in the Morning when I 
l.,()k'd out, beliold no more Ship was to be leeii. I was 
shttk liirpm'd, butrecover'd my felfwith this fatis- 
haory Rcflsftion, w^ That 1 had loft noTime.nor 
abated an/ Diligence to get every thing out of ber that 
could be uleful to me, and tbat indeed there was little 
kit ill her thai 1 was able to bring away, iflhadhad 
mora/Time; 1 now gave over anymore Thoughts of 
the Sliip, or of any thing out of her, except what might 
ritivei,n Shore ti-om her Wreck, as indeed divers Pieces 
1.1 ber aitwwards didi but thofe things were of Imall 
«re to me. 

My Thoughts were now wholly employ'd about fe- 
curingmylelt againft either Savages,if any Ihould appear 
er wild Beads, if any were in the iiland ; and J had 
many Tliought* of the Method how to do this, and what 
kind of Dwelling to make; whether J Ihould make me 
a Care in the Earth, or a Tent upon the Earth : And, 
inihort, I refolv'd upon both i the Manner and Del- 
cription of which it may aot be improper to give an 
Account of. 

I (oon found the Place 1 was in wjis not for my Sei- 
tleiiient, particularly becaule it was upon a low moor- 
ilh Ground near the Sea, and t believed would not be 
wholfome, and more particularly Ijeeaufe there was no 
■Water near it ; fo I refolv'd to find a more healthy and 
more convenient Spct of Ground. 

I.confujtrd leveral chingstn my Situation, which I 
■found w' uld lie proper for iiie ; firffi. Health, and frelh 
Water as I juft now mention'd ; .iecondly. Shelter from 
the Heato) tlie Sun j tiardly. Security from ravenous 
C'reaturcs, whether Man or Bcaft ; fourthly, a View 
' to the Seat, that if God Tent any Ship in Sight, I might 
not lofe any Adyantige for my Deliverance, for which 
I wasnot wiilitrgto banilh my Eapeftation yet. 

In ft-arch of a Place proper for this, I found a iittle 
Flain onthefideof a rifingHill, whofe Form towards 
-tiiie little plain, was as deep ns a Hooie-.&At, 



Google 



( ?5 ) 



ft that nothing could come down upon nie Trom tlic 
Top ; on the (idc of this Rock there was a hollow Place 
worn a little way in, like the Entrance or Door of a 
Cave, but there was not really any Cave or Way into 
the Rock at all. 

On the Flat of the Green, jufl before this hollow 
Place, Irefolved to pitch my Tent. This Plain was 
not above an hundred Yards broad, and about twice as 
long, and lay like a Green before the Door, and at the 
End of it defended irregularly every way down into 
the low Grounds by the iea-fide. It was on the N. N. 
W. fide of the Hill, fo that it was ilielcer'd ti-om the 
Heat every Day, till it came to a W, and by S. Sun, or 
thereabouts, which in thofe Countries is near the let. 
ting- 
Before I fet up my Tent, I. drew a half Circle before 
the hollow Place, which took in about ten Yards in its 
Senii-dianieter, from the Rock, and tiventy Yards in its 
Diameter, fromire Beginning and Ending. 

In this half Circle I pitch'd two Rows of flrnng 
5takes, driving them into the Ground till they ftjod 
very firm like Piles, the biggeft End btitig cat of the. 
Oround about five Foot and a half, and Iharpjn'd oti 
tljeTop ; the tivo Rows did not ftand above fix Inches 
from ore another. 

Then I took the Pieces of Cable which T had cut in th« 
Ship,and laid them in Rows upon one anoth^r,within the 
Circle between thefc two Rows of Stakes, up to theTop, 
placing other Stakes in the irfide, leaning againil: theni, 
about two Foot and a half high, like a ipur to a Poll,' 
and this Fenc« was foftrong, that neither Man or Beafl' 
could get into it orover it. This cort me a great deal 
of Time and Labour, efpcciaHy to cut the Piles in tllfe 
Woods, bringtheui to the Place, and drive them into 
the Earth. 

The Entrance into this TMace I imde to be, not by a 
Door, but by a ihort Ladder, to go over the Top, 
which Ladder, when I was in, I lilted over after me, 
and (5 1 was compleatly fenced in, and fortified, as I 
thoii^t, from all the World, and (;onfeqacnt!y Hcpt 
f^curc^ the flight, wfeicb otherwise I could not have 
dpne.tho' asitappear'd afterward, there was no need of' 
■ ■ ^ D 4 all 



.;, Google 



\ 



( 50 

all this Caution from the Enemies I apprehended Dan- 
ger from. 

Into this Fence, or Fortrers, with infinite Labour, 
I carry'd all mj- Riches, all my Provifions, Ammunition 
and Jtures, ot whicb you have the Account above ; and 
I made me a large Tent alio, to preierve me frnm- 
the Rains, that in one Partot the Year are very violent 
there, I made double, vi^. one fnialler Tent within, 
and ons larger Tent above it, and cover'd the upper- 
Miolt part ot" it with a large Tarpaulin which I had 
I'uv'd among the tails. 

And now 1 Uj no more for a while in the Bed> which 
I had brought on .Shore, but in a Hammock, which was 
indeed a very good one, andbelong'd to the Mate of tho 
Ship. 

Into this Tent I hrcuglit all my Provifions, and every 
Thing that would IpoU by the Wet; and having thus 
Ciiclos'd all my Goods, I made up the Entrance, which 
till now I had left open and lo pafs'd and repals'd, as 
I raid, hy a ihort i.adder. 

When 1 had done this, ! began to work my Way in- 
to the Rock, and bringing all the Earth and Stones that 
I dug down, out thro' my Tent, [ lajd them up within 
riiy Fence in the Nature of a Terrace, fb- that it rais"d 
theGround within about a Foot and a Half; and thus 
I made a Cavejuft behind my Tent, which ferv'd me 
like a Cellar to my Houfe. 

It cod me irudi Labour, and many Days, hefore all 
theic Things were brought to Pcrfeftion, and thereibre 
rniuft go back to feme other Things which took up 
ftme of my Thoughts. At the fame Time it happen'd 
aSpr I had laid my Scheme for the letting up my Tent, 
and making the Cave, that a Storm of Rain falling" from 
a thi;k dark Cloud, a fudden Flafli of Lightning hap- 
pen'd, and after that, a great Clap of Thunder, a« is 
naturally the ElRa of it -. I was not fo much iiirprii'd 
with the Lightning, as I was with a Thought which 
darted into my Ii'iir.d asfwiftasthe Lightning it felf; 
O my Powder ! my very Heart funk within me, when 
i; thought, that atone Bkft all. my Powder might he 
deftroy'dj on which, not rfiy Defence only, but the 
; '--■ ■■ $tO^' 



.vGppgle 



C57) 



providing me Food, as I thouglit, entirely depended } 
I was nothing near lo anxious about my own Danger, 
tlio' had the l-'o«der tools Fire, I lud never known who 
had hurt me. 

Such Imprefiiwn did this make upon me, that alter 
the Storm was over, I laid afide all my Works, my 
Building and Fortil)iiig, and apply'd my Irlf to make 
Bags and Boxes to leparate the Powder, and to keep 
it a little and a little in a Parcel, in hope, thai whate- 
ver might come, it might not all take Fire at once, and 
to keep it (o apart, that it (hould not l>e poflible to make 
one part fire another, I finiflied this Work in about a 
Fortnight, and I think my Poivder, which in all was 
about 140 lb. Wt. was divided initio lers than a hundred 
Parcels. As tn the Barrel that had been wet, 1 did not 
apprehend any Danger from that, lo 1 plae'd it in my 
new Cave, which in my Fancy I call'd my Kitchin ; 
and the reft i hid up and down in Holes among the 
Rocks, (o that no Wet might come to it, marking very 
carefully where I laid it. 

In the interval otTimewhile this wasdoirg, I went 
out at leaft once every Day with my Gun, as well to di- 
vert my felf, as to fee if I could kill any thing fit lbs 
Food, a nd as near as I could, to acquaint my felf witii 
what the mand produc'd. The firJl Time I went out, 
I prefently difcover'd that there were Goats in the I- 
fland, which was a great Satislaftion twins ; but then it 
was attended ivith this Misfortune to me, -vi^. That 
they were To (hy, fo fubtle, and fo fwift of Foot, that 
it was the difficulteft Thing in the World to come at 
them ; But I was not difcourag'd at this, not doubting, 
but I might now and then Ihoot one, as it Ibon happen^jl; 
for after I had found their Haunts a little, I laid waie 
in this Manner for them : I obferved, i-f they law 
me, in th* Valleys, tho' they were upon the Rocks, 
.they 'tvoidd run away as in a terrible Fright; but 
if they .jsere feeding in the Valleys, and i was up- 
on the Rocks, they took no Notice of me ; from ivhenee 
J concluded, thai by the Pofrtion of tiieir Opticks, their 
Sight, ^y^sfodiicffed downward, that they did not rear 
dily fee ObjeiU that were above them :. So afcerwiwds I 
D 5 took 



V.Google 



(^) 



Jock this Metliod, I always climfaM the Rocks firft, to 
g B abive tbem, and tl'.en had trtqiAendy a fair Mark. 
1 he firft Shot I made among thele Creatures, I kill'd 
a She-Go.^t wliieli had 3 litrte Kid by her, whtcb flie 
gave Suck to, which grieved me heartily ; but when the 
Old one fell, the K.id flood llock ftill by her till I came 
and took hemp; and not only !b, but when I carried 
the Old one with nie upon my Shoulders, the Kid fbl- 
JowM me tjuite to my Enclolure ; upon which I Isid 
(Sown the Daiivandtook the Kid in my Arms, and car- 
rii;d ito/er my Pale, in Hopes to have bred it up tame, 
but it would not eat, fo I was Torc'd to kill it and eat 
it myfelf; thele two liipply'd me with Flefli a great 
ivhile, for I eat Tparingly ; and fav'd my Provifions (my 
Bi-ead el'pecialiy) as much as pofSbly I could. 

Having now fix'd my Habitation, I Found it ahfolute- 
lyneceifary to provide a Place to make a Fire in, and 
Fuf! to burn ; artd what I did for that, as alfo hoiv I 
enlarg'd my Cave, and what Conveniencies I made, I 
iliall give a full Account of in its Place : But I muft ffrft 
give Ibme little Account of my felf, and of my Thcugbts 
ibiiiit Living, which it may well be fuppos'd were not 

i had a difmalProfpeA of my Condition; for as I 
W(as not caft awDy upon that Ifland without being dri- 
tcn,asisfaid, by a violent Storm quite uut of the Courfe 
efpur iiitrndedVoyage, and a great Way, m'j. ibme Han- 
elreiis ofLeaguesout of the ordinary Courfe ofthe Trade 
ofMankind, 1 had great Reafon to confider it as aj>e- 
rerminstion of Heaven, " that in this defolate Place, and 
in this dcfolate Manner Ilhould end my Ljfe : the Tears 
»v«itd run plentifully down my Face when I made thefe 
Reflexions, and fometimes I would eipoftulate with 
my felf, Why Providence ihould thus compieatlyruin its 
Creatures, and render them fo abfolutely miferable, fo 
without Help, abandoned, and fo entirely deprefe'd that 
it could hardly be rational to be thankful for fuoh « 
Life? 

But fometbing alwaj-j retarn'd fwift upon me to tfheck 
thele 7 houghts, and to reprove me ; and particularly 
«ne Day w»lking with my Gun in my Hand by the Sen- 
fide, I was very pen/ive upon the Subjeft ofmy prefenc 
Cob* 



Cookie 



(59) 



. Conditioi^ when Rearon,a*ic were put in, ex poll ula ting 
with me to'tlier Way, tlius ; Well, you are in a tielblate 
Condition 'tis.,true ; but pray rememhei-, where are the 
reft of'you? Did not you eonie Eleven of youirto the 
Boat, where are the Ten ? Why were not [bty fav'd, and 
jouloft ^ W hy are you fingkd out ? Is it better to be here 
or there? and then [ pointed to the Sea, All Evils 
are be confider'd with the Good tbat is i:i them, and 
with what worfe attended them. 

Then it occured to me again, bow well t was Atr- 
BiJh'd for iny SubliHance, and wh^t would have been 
myCafe, ifit bad not happsn'd. If hub mas an Hundred 
tbufawt to Oik, that tlie Ship floated from the Place 
were firft ihe flruck, and was driven fo near to the 
Shore that f had time to get e!1 thefe things out of her ? 
What would have been my Cale, if" I had. been to have 
liv'd in the Condition in which I at iirft came on Shore, 
without ^eceftaries ofLite, or NeceSTaries to fiipply 
and procure them ? Particularly fald I aloud, (tbo' tti 
(iiy lelfj -what would I 'ha' done without a Gun, with- 
out AniiniMiittoUi ufitbout aiw Tools to nwke any thing, 
or to work with ? Without Cloatlis, Bedding,, a Tent, 
or any manner of Coverings ? And that now I bad all 
tbeie to a fufficient Quantity, and was'in a fair way tc* 
provide my Telf in fuch a manner, as to live without my 
^un when, my Ammunition was fpent, fp that I had 
a tolerable View of.fubfilUng without any Want as Iqrg 
as. I liv'd i for I (panfider'd from the Beginning how I 
jvouid provide fpr tl)e Accidents that iiii^bt happen, and 
for the Timetlwt was to wme, even not only laiVr my 
Ammunition ihould be Ipsnt, but even after my Hcaltb 
or Strength Ihould decay. 

I cqnfels I l;3d nut thcnentertain'd any Notion oPmy 
Anipmniiion bfieg deftroy'dat oneBlall, I mean my 
ipowdpr.being;b!oiyrjup byl,ightni|ig, andrhis made the 
Thoughts of it lo litrpriiirtg to me when it ■iighten'd and 
fiiunder'd,. as.I oblerv'd jiill now- 

And flow being to enter Into a <meUncholy Relation 
fflf a Scene of filent Life, fuch perhaps as was never 
hcsri of in the World before, I fliall take it from its Be- 
ginning, and continue it in its Order. . It wasbymj' 
Account, tUe,3oth-,of -feffero&e'-, when,jWJjw imnpsr 
as 

f|.-..|.-,l|.;.G00' 



■Sf 



c «° ) 

as above faid, I iirft fet Foot upon tliis Iiorrid Iflandj 
wlien ihs-Suii being, to us, in its Autumnal Equinoir, 
was almoft jull ovtr my Head, for 1 reckoti'd my felt^ 
by Ohlcf vation, lo be in the Latitude of 9 Degrees, 24 
Minutes North ol the Line, 

After 1 had been there about Ten or Twelve Day^ 
it came inWiny Thoughts, that I Ihould lole my Rec- 
koning ot'Time for want of Books, and Pen and Ink, 
and ihould even forget the Sabbath Days from the vfor- 
king Days ; Bur to prevent this, I cut it wiib-my Knife 
upon a large Poft, in Capital Letters, apd making it 
into a great Crols, I fetit up on the Shore where I ftift 
landed, tif. / camt on Sb^re here Che 30** i?/" Sept. i e-jj. 
Uprm the Sides oi this fquare Poft, 1 cut every Day a 
Kotcli with my Knife, and every feventh Notch was 
as long again as the reft, and every iirft Day of the 
.Month as long again as that long one; and thus 1 kept 
my Ralendar, or weekly, nionthlyj and yearly Reckon- 
ing of Time. 

■ In the next place we are to obferve, that among the 
fliany things whicli I brought off the Ship iil the lece- 
ral Voyages, which, as abuvemention'd, i made to it, I 
got feveral things of kls value, l)ut not at all lefs ufc- 
lul to me, v»hich 1 omitted fetting down before ; as in 
particular, Pens, Ink, and Paper, leveral Parcels in the 
Capain's, Mate's, Gunner's, and Carpenter's keeping, 
three of four ConipaiTcs, fome Mathematical Inftru- 
ments, , Wals, Perfpeftives, Charts, and Books of Na- 
vigation, atl which i huddled together, whether I might 
wane them or no ; alfo I found three vtry good Bibles, 
wbiefe came to me in my Cargo from Sa^land, and 
which I had pack'd tip among my things ; (bme Firtu- 

?<ejt Books alfe, and among them two or three Pepilh 
rayer-Boeks, and leveral other Books, all which I eare- 
iully fecur^d. And I muft not forget that we bad in 
*be Shij) a Ddgand two Cats, of whofe eminent Hillo- 
ty I may have occafwn to fay tbmethirg in its Place; 
(gt 1 carried both'the Cats with me', and as for the 
Dog, he jump'd otrt of the Ship of himfel^ and iwam 
on Shoi* to me the Day after I went on Shore with my 
firil Cargo, and was a trufty Servant to me many 
years: i wanted nothing that he could f«tch me, nor 
an/ 



Google 



(fil ) 



^tiy Company that he could make up to me; I only 
wanted to have him talk to me, but that would noz 
do. As I oblerv'd before, I found Pen, Ink and Paper, 
and I husbanded thejii to the utmoft ; and I Ihall fliew, 
that while my Ink Sailed, I kept things very exaft ; but 
litter that was gone, I, could not ; tor 1 could not make 
any Ink, by any Means that I could devife. 

And this put me in mird that I wanted many things, 
notwithftandiiig all that 1 had amafs'd together ; and of 
thele, this of Ink was one, as alio a Spade, Pick-Axe and 
Shovel, to dig or remove the Earth ; Needles, Pinsand 
Thread ; as tor Linnen I foon karn'd to want that with- 
out much DiHictilty. 

This Want of Tools made every Work I did goon 
heavily, and it was near a whole Year before I had en- 
tirely finiflied my little Pale, or furroundcd Habita- 
tion : The Piles, or Stakes, which were as iieavy as I 
could well lift, were a long time in cutting and pre- 
parmg in the Wcods, and more by lar in bringing 
home; fu tliat'I fpent fometimes two Days in (fitting 
and bringing home one of- thole Polls, and a third Day 
in -driving it into the Giound ; for which purpofe I 
got a heavy Piece of Wood at lirft, but at lall bethought 
my felf ot oWe of thelron Cro'Ws, whiSh huweveri tho' 
I found it, yet it made driving thofe Polls or Piles very 
labofiont aiid tedi6us Work. 

But what need I ha' been concerned at theTediouf- 
nefsofany thingi had to do, feeing ( had time encugh 
to do it in ; nor had I any other Employment if that 
had been over, at leaft, that I could torelee, eneept the 
ranging the Iflaiid to feek for Food, whicli I did more 
or le'is every Day. 

I now began to confider ferioufly my Cond ition, and 
the Circumllance I was reduc'd to ; and i drew up the 
State of my Affaire in Writing; not fo much to leave 
them to any that were to come alter me, fr- r I was like 
te have buc tew Heirs, as fo deliver my Thcugji's from 
daily poring upon them, and afHitting my Mind ; and 
as my Reifon began now to mailer my Difpondency, 
I begaiv-to comfort my felfas well as 1 could, and fo 
fet the Good againft the Evil, that I might have fome- 
tliing to diftinguiili my Caie from Worle.} and I ftated 



, Google 



( «o 

it very impartiallj', like Debtor and Creditor, tbe CanH 
forts I enjoj'd, againft tbc Mileries I fuffer'd, thus: 

EVIL. GOOD, 

/ am caj} upcn a btrribJe But 1 am aiiw, «M(/ not 

dffolate ifloMd, void cf all Anwn'd, as all my Sbips 

Hcpe iif Recovery. Cctnpany was- 

Iain fin^led eat and fi- But 1 am jir^led fut lo« 
parated, »s h wire, fnm fnm all the Sb^'s Crew ta 
mifertt- ie fpared fro^JJeatb', and 
M that m'ltaiuleufly faved 
fits jro/u Death, can deliver 
mejyain this Ccnditien. 



all the W^Tld t 



_ t ant divided from Man- But 
k'nd, a Solilairy, me ha- perijhiii 
mjh'dfrom human l^^iety. *§6r4ifi. 



m not jfitrv'd and 
a a barren Tlaest 
SuJlenaiKe. 



/ have tKCImhi tf tsver But I am in a httCU- 
«e. M4te,wlKre if I bfd Clmlhs, 

i could ibardly mtr them- 

l am vtiboat atff Be- But I am cafl on an Jfland 

feme or Means to nfifl ntiy .T»bere J fee m wld Btaftt 

V'olettce efMan or Beafi, ' to hurt me, as Ifaw en .l^h.e 

Caa^4 Africa: Atd.wijat 

if I had beeit Sb^wrwk'il 

■ ■ / .; . ■ ■ .. ■ t'bere/ 

I have m Siul to fptak.tf. But God vmderfuSy fent 
ff relieve me. tbeSbip in near enough totbi 

Shore, that I havegitten oat 
f matty necejjary j:hi^s fi$ 
wis either fupply myWaitfr, 
. ir esahle me te fi^y .mjh 
felj, even as liu^ 4sJ/liveit 

Upon the whole, here was an undoubted Teftimo*' 
uy, that there was.ioarce any Condition .in the .World 
fo miferabH but there was Ibmethiug ne.^ative or Camer 
Xhing pcfttiae, to. be. ihaakivMovia it.; iad Aetxhix fitxd 



Google 



( «3 ) • 

as a DIreAion from tbe Experience of the nioft inifsraLle 
of all Conditions in this World, that ive may ahvajs 
find in ic fomsthing to comlbrt ourlslvts from, and to 
fa in the Defcription of Good and Evil, on the Credit 
fide of the Account. 

Having now hrought my Mind a Htck to rclifli my 
Condition, and given over looking out to Sea, to lee if 
I could rpy a Ship ; [ fay, giving over ihefe Things, I 
hegan to apply mylelf to accommodate my way of Lav- 
ing, ajid to make things as eal'y to me as I could. 

I have already defcribed my Habitation, which was 
a Teot under the lide of a Rock, farroonded with a 
ftrong Pale of Polls and Cables, but I might now ra- 
ther call it a Wall ; for I raifed a kind of W all up againft 
it of Turls, about two Foot thick on the Outlide ; and 
after-fome time, f i think it was a Year and h^lfj I 
raifed Rafters from it, leaning to the Rock, and thatch'd 
or covered it with Boughs of Trees, and fiich things as 
I could get, to keep out the Rain, which I found at 
fome rimes of the Year very violent. 

I have already obferv'd how I brought all iny 
Goods into this Pale, and into the Cave which I had 
made behind me : But I muft obferve too, that at firil 
this was a confiifed Heap of Goods, which as they lay 
in no Order, fo they took up all my Place, I had no 
room to turn mylelf; fo I fet myfelf to enlarge my Cave, 
and work'd farther into the Earth ; for it tvas a loofe 
fandy Rock, which yielded eafily to the Labour I be- 
flowed on it : And fo when I found [ was pretty fafc 
as iQ- Beads of Prey, I work'd fideways to the Right 
Hand into the Rock; and then turning to the Right a. 
gain, work'd ijuiteout, and made me Door to come 
out On the Outfide of my Pale or Fortification. 

This gare-me not Only Egrefs and Regreis, asit were 
a Back-Way to my Tent, and to my Storc-houfe, but 
gave me-f oom to flow my Goods. 

And now I-hegan to apply myfelf to make fuch n?- 
ceffary .things as I found! molt wanted, particularly a 
Chair and a Table ; for without tliefe I was not able t© 
enjoy the few Comforts [ l>ad in the "World ; I could 
not write or eat, or feveral tilings, with lb much Pka- 
furc wiriieut-a Tabic, 

So 



..Google 



(«4) 



■ So I went to work ; and here I nmfl needs obferTC, 
tljat as Realbn is Che Subftance and Original of tlie Ma- 
tbematicltg, To by dating and Iquaring every thing by 
Reafon, and by making the moll rational Judgment of 
things, every Man may be in time, M after oFevery We- 
chanick Art. I had never handled a Too! in my Lite, 
and yet in time, by Labour, Application and Contriv- 
ance, I found at laft that I wanted nothing but I cculd 
have made it, efpecially if I had had Tools; however, 
I made abundance of things even without Tools, and 
fonte with no more Tools than an Adz and a Hatchet, 
which perhaps were never made that way belore, and 
that with inKnite Labour. For Example, If I wanted 
a Board, I bad no other way but to cut down a Tree, 
fet it on an edge liefbre me, and hew it flat on either 
Side with ray Axe, till 1 had brought it to he as thin 
as a Plank, and then duhb it fmooth with my Adi : 
It is true, by this Method I could make but one Board 
out of a wliole Tree, but this 1 had no Remedy for but 
Patience, any more than I had for the prodigious deal 
of Time and Labour whidi it took me up to make ;i 
Plank or Board : But my Time or Labour was little 
worth, and fo'it was as well employ'd one way as a. 
nother. 

■ However, I made me a Table and a Chair, as I oh- 
ferv'd above, in the firft Place, and this 1 did out of 
the Ihort Pieces of Boards that I brought on my Raft 
from the Ship : But when I had wrought out fomc 
Eoatds, as alnvc, I made Isrge Shelves of the breadth 
of a Foot and a half, one over another, all along one 
iide of my Cave, to lay all my Tools, N»i!s and Iron- 
york, and in a Word, to feparate every thing at largp 
in their Places, that I might eafily come at them ; alio 
i knook'd Pieces into the Wall of the Rock to hang my 
Guiu,. and allihings that wouM hang ^p. 

So that had my Cave been to be fcen, it look'd like » 
general Magazine of all neceiTary things; and 1 had 
every thing ib ready at iny Hajid, that it wa* a great 
PlealiireJome to lee all my Gtoods infuch Order, and 
efpeciajly.to find my Stock ofali Necellarics lb great. 

And now it was. when 1 began to keep a Journal of I 
every Day's Employment, for indeed at firA 1 was ia 



Google 



( «5 ) 

too raueh Hurry, and not only a Hurry as to Labour^ 
but in too much DUcompDlure of Mind, and my Joui'- 
nal would ha" lieen full of many dull things. For Ek- 
ample, I muft have faid thus: Sejt. the 30th. After I 
got to Shore, and had efcap'd drowning, inftead of be- 
ing thankful to God for my Deliverance, having firft 
vomited, with the great Quantity of fait Water wbich 
*as gotten into my Stomach, and recovering my felfa 
little, I ran about the Shore, wringing my Hands and 
beating my Head and Face, exclaiming at my Mifery, 
and crying cut, I was undone, undone, till tir'd and faint, 
I was forc'd to lye down on the Ground to Repot'e, but 
durft not deep, tor fear of being devoured, 

Some Days after this and alter I had been on board 
the Ship,and had got all i could out of her, yet I could 
not forbear gettirg up tb the Top of a little Mounuin, 
and looking our to Sea, in hopes of leeing a Ship, then 
fancy at a vaft Diftance I fpy'd a Sail, pleafe my felf 
with the Hopes of it, and then after looking fteadily til! 
I was almolV blind, iole it quite, and fit down and weep 
like a Child, and thus encreafc myMifcrybymy Folly. 

But having gotten over thefe thingf in Ibme mea- 
fure, and having fettled my Houfhold Stuff and Ha. 
bitation, made me -* Table and a Chair, and all as 
Itandfome about me as 1 could, 1 began, 7/ay, to keep my 
Journal, of which I fliall here give you the Copy, 
Ctho' in it will be told all thtfe Particulars over again) 
as long as it Iglled ; for at laft having no more Ink, 
I was forced to leave it oft"- 

The J o u R Isf A L. 

^EplfDjber 36, 1(559. ^' P°or miferaWe R^- 

' I t'nfcn Crujoe, being Ihipwreck'd, durirg a 

'readful itorti^in the Ojia^,cameon Shore 

n this diihiat unforttinate Jfland, which I 

I call'd the Ifland of Dtfptir^ all the reft of 

the Ship's Company lieirg drown'd, and my felf al* 
moftdead. . " 

m 



.;, Google 



All the reft of the Day I fpent in affliAing my fclf at 
tlie. difiua! Circumftances I was brought to, v/f . I had 
neither Food, Houfe, Cloaths, Weapon, or Place to 
fly to, and in Detpair of any Relief, faw nothing but 
Death before me, either that I ftould be devoured by 
wild Beafts, murder'd by Savages, or ftavv'd to Death 
fpr want of Food. At the Approach of Night, I (lepc 
in a Tree for fear of wild Creatures, but tlspt found-. 
ly, tho' it rain'd all Nigbt. 

OScber j. In the Mornirg I faw, to my great Sur- 
prize, the Ship had floated with the higli Tide, and 
was driven on Shore again niu;h nearer the Idand, 
which, as it was fome Comfort on one band Cf"r fee- 
ing her fit upright, and not broken to pieces, [ hoped, 
if the V\ind abated, I niigbtget onboitd, and getiomc 
Food and Neceffaries out of Uer for my Relief > fo on 
the other hand, itrenew'd asy Grief at the Lofs of ^y 
Comrades, who, I imagined, if we had all ftaid on 
hoard, might have favcd the Ship, or at leaft that tliey 
would not have been all drowned, as they were ; aod 
that had the Men been laved, we m^ht perhaps have 
built ue a Boat out of the Rwins of the Ship, to have 
carried us to ibme other Part of the World. I fpent 
great part of this Day in perpl^ting my felf on tbefe 
things ; but at length feeing iJjie ,Ship ahraoft 'dry, I 
went itpon .the Sanid -as near a* I couidi and then fwam 
onboard.' ThisDayalfo continu«d raining, tho' with 
no Wind at all- 

From the ill of OJai^r to the 24tb. All tbefe Days 
entirely I'pcnt in many Teveral Voyages to get all I could 
out oi the Ship, which i brought on Shore every Tide 
of Flood upon Rafts. Much Rain alfo in thefe Days, 
tho' with (ome Intervals of fair Weather : &it, it feenis, 
this was the rainy Scafoti. 

Oli. 2C. t overftt my Raft, and all the Goods I had 
got upon it ; but being in ihoai Water, and the things 
being chiefly heavy, 1 recover'd many of them when 
the Tide was out. 

0<i.-i',. It rain'd all Night ,and all Day, with fome 

Gufts of Wind, during which Time the Ship broke in 

Piecqi,,the Wjud blowing a little harder ilian beibr^, 

and was no more to be feen, except the Wrepk of her, 

.and 



.y Goodie 



(«7) 

and that only at low Water. I (pent thi* Day in co- 
vering and Tecurirg the Goods which I had laved, that 
the Rain might not Ipoil them, 

OJ. 26. I walk'd about the Shore almoft all Day ta 
find out a Place to fix my Habitation, greatly concern il 
to lecure niy felf from any AttacK in the Night, either 
from wild Beads or Men. Towards Night ! *iii'd upoa 
a proper Place undeP a Rock, and mark'd out a Senii- 
Circle for my Encampment, whldi I relblv'd to 
ftrcngtlien with 1 Work, Wall, or Fortification, made 
of double Piles, lined within with Cable, and without 
with Turf. -■* * 

From the 5^th to the 30th, I work'd very liard in 
carrying all my Goods to my new Habitation, tliough 
Ibnie Part of the Tims it rain'd csceeding bard. 

ThciiftintSeWtningl went out into the Ifland 
with my Gun to felWbr fome Food, and difL-over the 
Country, whenj[__ ktfl'd a She-Goat, and her Rid foi- 
low'd me Home, which 1 afterwards ktll'd alfo,becattft 
it would not feed. 

Navember 1. I fet up my Tent under a Rodf, and lay 
there for the firll Night, -making it as large as I could 
with Stakes driven in to fvving my Hammock upon. 

Wjv,2. I.fetupall my Cbefts and Boards, apd the 
Pieces of fiinber wiiidj made my Raits, and with than 
form'd a Fence round me, a little within the Place I 
had mark'd out for my Fortificatifm. 

Nov, 3. I went out with my Gun, and kill'd two 
Foivis like Docks, which were very good Food. In the 
Aliernoon went to work to make mc a Tabic. 

iVrtJ. 4. This Morning I began to order my Times 
of Work, of going out with my Gun, Time »f Slecf^ 
and Time of Oiverfion, vi\- Every Morning I walk'd 
tut with my Gun tor two or three Hours, if it did not 
rain, then employ'd my felf to work till about eleven 
a Clock, then eat wl'.at I li.id to live on, and from 
twelve to two I lay down to deep, the Weather being 
excefllve hot, and then in the Evening to iVork^igain ; 
The working Part of this Day and the neit were tvhol- / 

ly employed in making my Table, for. I was yet but a , 

very ibrry Workman, tho' Time and Neceflity made \ 

t»e 



i by Google 




C "ss ) ■ 

me a complcat natural Mechanickloon after, as I believe 
ic would do any one clfe. 

Mv, 5. This Day I went abrt^ witli my Gun and 
my Dog, and kill'd a wild Cat, her SIdn pretty Ibft, 
but her Flelli good for nothing : Every Creature, I kill'd, 
I took off the Skins and prelerv'd them. Coming 
bafljf by the Sea Shore, I faw many" Sorts of Sea-Fowls 
•which -[ did not underftand ; but was furprized, and al- 
moft frighted with two or three- Seals, which, while 
I was gaiing at, noi^ell knowing^vhat they were, got 
intotbo Sea, and efcl^te«Wie forTHbt time. 

JV/u. 6. After my Mornirg WlIlP ^ went to Worft 
with my Table again, and finilhecKitJ \hi ' 
■Liking ; nor was it long before I lef^" 

Wji'. 7- Now it began" to be 
The 7th, Sth, 9th, 10th, and 1^ 
nth was Sunday, according ti 
■wholly up to make me a Chai , 
brought it to a tolerable Shape, but 
and even in the Making I pull'd 
times. Nett, I foon neglefted my keeping S^taday ; for 
omitting my Mark for them on my Poft, i torgot "which 
wai wmsla. 

Nitv.,13. This Day it rained, which refreftied me 
exceedingly, and cooled the Barth, but it was accompa- 
ny'dwith terrible Thunder and Lightning, wbicli fright- 
ed me dreadfully, tor ftar of my Powder : As fooii as 
it was over, I refolved to feparate my Stock of Powder 
into as many little Parcels as poflible, that it might not 
be in Danger. 

_ Nhv, 14, IS, 16. Thefe three Days I fpent in making 
Jittle iijuare Chells or Boxes, which might hold about 
& Pound, or two Pound, at moft, of Powder ; and fo 
putting the Powder in, I flowed it in Places as fccure 
and remote from one another as polfifale. On one of 
thefe three Daj-s I kill'd a large Bird that was good to 
cat, but I knew not what to call it. 

■'Vol/, 17. This Day 1 began to dig behind my Tent 
into the Rock, to make room for my farther Conveni- 
ency. Nntr, Three Things I wanted exceedingly for 
thi* Wptk, vi^. a Pick-aite, a Shovel, and a WheeJ- 
iwrrow or Basket, fo I defitted from my Work, and be- 

I Goo' 



(«?) 



gan to coiifider how to fupply that Wairt, and make me 
Iboie Tools, As tor a Pick -axe, [ made ule of" t!ie 1- 
ron Crows, which were proper enough, tho' heavy; 
but the next Thing was a Shovel or Spade ; this was fo 
ablblutelj' neceflar/, that indeed 1 could do nothing ef- 
feftuaily without it ; hut what kind of one to make I 
knew rot. 

Ncv. iS. The next Day in fearching the Woods, I 
founds Tree of that Wood, or like it, which in the Bra- 
Jj'j they call the /ran IVee, for its exceeding Hardnefs ; 
of this, with great Labour, and almoft JpoUing my A*, 
I cut a Piece, and brought it Home too with Difficul- 
ty enough, (or it was exceeding heavy. 

Theexceifive Hardnefs of the Wood, and having no 
other Way, made me a long while upon this Machine, 
for I work'd it effectually, by Httle and little, into the 
Form of a Shovel or Spade, the Handle exadly fhap'd 
like ours \a England, only thaC the broad Part having 
no Iron (hod upon it at Bottom, it would not laft me 
ia long ; however it ferv'd wel! enougli for the Ufes 
which 1 had Oecallon to put it to ; but never was a 
Shovei, I believe, made after that Faihion, or fo long 
a making. 

1 was Hill deficient, fori wanted a Basket or a Wheel- 
barrow ; a Basket I could not make by any means, ha- 
ving no fuch I'hings as Twigs that would bend to make 
Vfjeker Ware, atleafl none yet found out ; and as to 
the Wheel-barrow, I fancy'd I could make all but the 
Wijeel, but that J had no Notion of, neither did I 
know how to go about it ; befties, 1 had no pofSblc 
Wayio makelron Gudgeons for. the Spindle or Axis of 
theWheel to run in, fo 1 gave it over; and fo for carrying 
away the Earth which I dug out of the Cave, I made 
uie a thing like a Hoad which the Labourers carryMor- 
tarin wh(;n they ferve the Brick-la) ers. 

Tliia was not fo diSeult to me as the making tl'.e 
Shovel ; and yet this, and the Shovel, and the Attempt, 
which I made in vain, to make a Whecl-faarrow, took 
me up no lefs than foui- Days ; I mean always, except- 
ing my Mornings Walk with my Gun', which t feldom 
faiJ'd, and very feldom fail'd alli> of bringing home 
Ibmething fit to eac. 



.;, Google 



(7= ) 



Km. 2J. My other Work having now flood ftill, be- 
cMife of my tnaking dicfe Tools ; when the)' were iinilli- 
cit, I went on ; and working every Day, as my Strength 
and Time altow'd, I ipent eighteen Days entirely in 
widening and deepening my Cave, that it might liold 
Illy Goods eomtnodioally. 

Nitf, During all this Time, I work'd to make this 
Room or CavC Ipaeioas enough to accommodate nie as a 
Ware-houfe or Magazine, a liitchen, a Dining-room, 
and a Cellar j as tor a Lodging, J kept to the Tent, ex- 
cept that Ibmetimes in the wet Seafon of the Year, it 
rain'd To hard that I could not keep my lelf dry, which 
caus'd me alterwards to cover all my Place within my 
Pale with long Poles in the form oi' Rafters, leaning a- 
gainft the Rock, and load them with Flags, and large 
Leaves ofTrees like a Thatch. 

DecefHber lo. 1 l>egan nowtothink my Cave or Vault 
finiihed, when on a fiicidain (it ieeins 1 liad made it too 
large) a great t^antity of Earth fell down from the 
Top and one Side, fo much, that in ihort it frighted me, 
and not without Reafon too, for if I had Iwen und^r it, 
I had never wanted a Grave-digger; Upun thisDilafler 
I had a great deal of Work to do over again ; for I had 
the loole Earth to carry out, and, which was of more 
Jmpoi'tance, 1 had ilic Cieling to prop up, fo that I 
might be fure no more would come down. 

Dec. II. This Day I wentto work with it accord- ' 
i"Sly> ""1 g*** two Shoars, or Pofts pitch'd upright to 
the Top, with two Pieces of Boards a-crofs over each 
Port: This I fitiilh'd the next Day; and fetting more 
Pofts lip with Boards, inabout a Week morel had the 
Rooffccured; and the Polls ftandirg in Rows, ferved 
Bic for I'-artitions to part off my Houle. 

Dec^ 1 7. From this Day to the 20tli,'T placed Shelves, 
and knock'd up Nails on the Pofts to hang every thing 
iip that could be hung up, and now I began to be in 
fome Order within Doors. 

Dec. 20. Now I carried every thing into the Cave, 
and began toturnilh my Houfe, and fet up fome Pieces 
of Boards like a Drelfer, to order my Viftuils upon ; 
but Boards began to be very fcarce with me : Alfo I 
nude me another Table. 

Vec, H* 



.;,Goo;>Ie 



(vO 



Dec. a4. Much Rain all Night and all Daj- ; no ftir- 
ring oat. 

Dec. I',. Rain all Day. 

Dec. 26. No Rain, and tile Earth nmch cooler than 
before, and pleaCanter. 

Dec. 27. Kill'd a young Goat, and lam'd aiiother, 
fo that I catch'd it, and led it Home in a String ; when 
I had it Home, I bound and fplinter'd up its Leg which 
was broke. A". B. I took fuch care of it that it lived, 
and the Leg grew welt, and as llrong as ever ; but by 
nuriing icfo long it grew tame, and fed upon the little 
Oreen at my Door, and would rot go avfaj'. 'f his 
was the firiltime that I entertained aThought of breed- 
ing up fortie tame Crsatures, that I might have Food 
when my Powder and Shot was all fpent, 

Dec. 2% 29, 30. Great Heare and noBreeie; Co that 
there was no ftirring abroad, except in the Evening tor 
Food : This Time 1 (pent in putrirg all my Thitigs in 
Order within Doors. 

Januaryi. Very hot ft ill, but I went abroad early 
and late with my Gun, and lay (lill in tbe middle of 
the Day .• This' Evening going farther into the Valleys, 
which lay towards the Center of the Ifland, I found 
thsre was plenty o\' Goats, tlio' exceeding (hie and hard 
to come at ; however, t relblv'd to try if ! could not 
bring my Dog to hunt them doivn. 

?a«. 2. Accordingly, (he next Day I ivent out with 
xay Dog, and fet him upon the Goats ; but I was mifla- 
ken, for they all faced about upon the Dog, and he 
knew his Danger tao well, for he would nbc come near 

• Jan. 3. r began my Fence or Wall, which, bdng ftiH ' 
jealous of my being attaek'd by f-ulie Body, I relblv'd to 
to make v^ry thick and rtrong. ' 

N. B. This Wall bein^ defcnbed before, I par^ifelj 
— -f mbatvias faidin the Jaurnul 1 it hfujicir ' 



tiohfefve, thatl was Hd iejs time tbanfivmtiii 
■idoj Januai-y(o the 14(6 u/April, ii)ofVtr^,fimJh^ 
in^ and perfe^rng this WaS, Iho' it -mas no more 



thknabcufnTards in length, being a Mf Circle 
^om cue Fhce in the Ruck to ansiber Place abrntt 

. I, Google 



(70 

tight Tardsfretn it, the Dmr of tb: Cave being m 
thi Center bebimi it. 

All this. time I work'd veryhard, the Rains hinder- 
ing mc many Days, nay, Ibmecinies Weeks together ; 
but I thought I ihould never be perfeftly lecure till this 
"Wall was hnilU'd ; and it is Icarce credible what inex, 
prcHible Labour every thing was done with, efpecially 
the bringing Piles out of the Woods, and driving them 
into the Ground ; fur t made theiii iiiut;h bigger than I 
needed to have done. 

When this Wall was finUh'd, and the Outfide double 
fenced with a Turf-Wall rnifed up cloie to it, I per- 
fwaded myCelf, that if any People were come on Ihore 
there, they would not perceive any thing like a Habi- 
tation : And it svas very well I did fo, as may lie ob- 
ferv'd hereafter, upon a very remarkable Occafion. 

E>uring this time, 1 made my Rounds in the Woods 
Kor Game every Day when the Rain admitted me, and 
made frequent Difcoveries in thefe Walks of fomething 
or other to my Advantage ; particiilarly I found a kind 
of wild Pidgeons, who built not as Wood-Pidgeons in 
a Tree, but ratlier as Houfe- Pidgeons, in the Holes of> 
the Rocks; and taking fome young ones, I endeavoured , 
to breed them up tame, and did ib ; but when they 
grew older, they flew all away, which perhaps was at 
firft want of feeding them, tor I had nothing to give 
them ; however I frequently found their Neds, and got 
their young ones, which were very good Meat. 

And now in the managing my Houfhold Affairs, I 
found my felf wanting in many things, which I thought 
at firft it was impoffible for nie to make, as indeed 5s 1 
to fome of them it was : Fcr in/iance, I could never 
make a Cask to be hoop'd ; I had .1 fmall Runlet or 
two, as I cbferv'd before, but I could never avrVe to tlie 
Capacity of making otic \iy them, tho' I fpent many 
Weeks about it ; I could neither put in the Heais, or 
join the Staves fo true to one another, as 10 make them 
hold Water ; fo I gave that alfo over. 

Jn th? next Place, I was at a great lofs for Candle ; 

fo that as foon as ever it was dark, which was generallv 

Xiy Seven o' Clock, 1 was oNiged to go to Eed. I ve- 

menibec 

I Goo 



(73) 

meniber'd tlie Lump of Bees- Wax, ivith wiiich I made 
Candles in my ^fwan Adventure j but 1 had none o( 
that now : The only Remedy I had, was, that when I 
hud kill'd a Goat, 1 faved the Tallow, and with a little 
Difh made of Claj', which I baked in the Sun, to 
which I added a W(ck of Ibme Oakum, I made me a 
Lamp; and this ga^c me Light, tho' not a clear ftea. 
Ay Light like a Caridlc. In the middle of all my La- 
bours it happen'd, tliat rummaging my Things, 1 ioun4 
a little Bag, whicbj as I hinted betiwe, had been fiird 
with Corn for the feeding of Poulti>-, net for this Voy- 
age, but before, as I fuppofe, when the Ship cajiie frojn 
Lisbon-y wliat little Remainder ofCorn had Ixwn in tlu; 
Bag, was all devoured with the Rats, and 1 (aw nothing 
in the Bag but Husks and Dull ; and being wil- 
ling to have the Gag for fome other Ufe, f[ think it 
was to put Powder in, when I divided it for lear of 
the Lightening, or fome fuch Ule,} [ fliook the Husks 
■ of Corn out of it on one lide of my Fortiiication unde r 
the Rock. 

It was a little before the great Rains, jufl now inen- 
lioned, that [ threw this Stuff away, taking no Notice 
of any thing, and not fo mudi as remembring that I 
had thrown any thing there ; when about a Month all 
ter, or thereabouts J ffaw foine few Stalks of fumtthing 
■green Jhooting out of the Ground, which I fancied 
might be fome Plant I had not lecn } but I jvas fur- 
prized and perfeftly aftonifli'd, when after a little lon- 
ger time I law about ten or twelve Ears come out, which 
were perfcift green Barley of the fame Kind as our Eiitq' 
peon, nay, as our EngHjl) Barley, 

It is impoffible to exprefs the Aftonilhment and Con- 
fufion of my Thoughts on this Occafion ; I had hi- 
therto afted upon no religious Foundation at all ; in- 
deed \ had very few Notionsof Religion in my Hfad, 
nor had entertained any Senle of any Thing that had 
befallen me, othervrife than aa a Chance, or, as we 
lightly fay, what plea fes God.; without fo much as en- 
quiring into the End of Providence in thefe Things, 
or his Order in governing Events in, the World : But 
after I faw Barley grow there, in a Climate which I 
knew was not proper for Corn, and eipecially that I 
£ knew 



.;, Google 



(74) 



Icnew not Viow it came there, it llartled me ftrangly, anl 
J began to fuggeft, that God had itiiraculoufly caus'd 
■this Grain to grow without any Help of Seed town, and 
ih:it it was fo direited purely for my Suftenance in that 
,ivild milerable Flace. 

Thistouch'dmyHeart a little, and brought Tears 
cHt oK my Eyes, and I l>egan to blels my (elf, (hat fuch 
a Prodigy oiNature&ould happen Upon my Account j 
and iliis was the more ftrange to me, becaule I Taw nfear 
it ftill, all along by the Side of the Rock, fome other 
ilraggUng Stalks, which [ivov'd to be Stalks of Rice, 
apd which 1 knew, liecaule t had leen it grow in Afr'tc* 
avhen I was alhore there. 

1 not only thought thefe the pure PioduAions of 
Providence for my Support, but nor doubting, but that 
there was more in the Place, 1 went all over that Part 
efthelfland, where I had been before, peering in eve- 
ry Comer, and'under every Rock, to fee for more of it, 
hut I could not find any j at laft it occur'd to my 
TlioBghts, that I had fliook the Bag of Cliickens Meat 
■cut, in that Place, and then the Wonder began to ceafe } 
and I iiiuft confefs, my religious Thanktulnefs to God's 
Providence began lo abate too, upon the diicovering that 
all this .was nothing but what wascommon ; tho'I ought 
to have been as thankful ior fo ftrange and unfbreicen 
Provideuce, as if it had been mliaculous j for it was i 
'really the Workof Providence as to me, that Ihould or- , 
der orappoint, that lo or i2 Grains of Corn iliould re- i 
jnajr unfpoil'd ("hen the Rats had deftroy'd all the 
st&.j asif it had been dropt'fr'b'm Heaven ; As alio that 
I fliould threw it out in tljat particular Place ivhere, 
it being in the Shade of a high Rock, it fprang up iin- , 
mediately ; whereas, if I had thrown it any where elfe 
at that 'I'ime, it had been burnt up and dcftroy'd. 

I carefully fav'd the Ears of this Corn, jou may be 
fure in their Sealbn, which was about the End i^^ane, 
and laying up_ every Corn, I refolv 'd to fow them all 
again, hoping in Time to have fome Qjiantity fufficient 
«o fupply me with Bread ; but it was iiot till the 4th 
Ycartliat I could allow my felftheleaft Grafri oftliit 
Cornlo eat, and even then but fparingly, asllhatllay 
Alicrwacclsin ixi Order ; ior I loli all tliat I fow'd the 
firft 



Google 



(75 ) 



fril Seafon, not hy not obferving the proper Time, for 
i fow'd it juft before the dry Seafon, To that ic nevw 
cams up at all, at kaftj not as ic would hate done : Ot 
which in itsl'iace. , 

Belides this Barley, there was, as above, 30«r3o 
Stalksot'Rice, which ipieferv'd with the faiiie Care, and 
whofe Uic was of the fame Kind, or to the lame i'ur- 
I>oie, ^I'/^O '^o make me Bread, or rather Food ; for I 
found- Waj's to co6k it up without baking, tho* I did 
that alfo alter fonje Time. But to return to my Jour- 

I work'd exceffive bard this three or four Months, t« 
^et my. Wall done ; and the 14th of j^p^-j/ Idoled it up, 
contriving to gointo it, not by a Door, but over a Wall 
by a Ladder, that there might be noSign on the Outfide 
of my Habitation. 

, j^ril 16. 1 finiih'd the Ladder, fo I went up with 
the Ladder to the Top, and then piill'd it up after iiij, 
and let it down on the tnlide : 1 his was a compleat 
Enclofiire to rtie ; for within I bad room enough, and 
mothiog could oome at me from without, unlefs it could 
Jirlt jMijunt my Wall. 

The very nest Day after this Wall was finifii'd, t had 
ahaofl; had all ray Labour overthrown at once, and my 
ieU" kill'd } the Cafe was thus : As I was bafy in the 
Infide of it, behind my Tent, jufl in the Entrance in- 
to my Ca-vp, 1 was terribly frighted with a iiiofl dread- 
ful furprizing thing indeed ; for all on a fudden I )oun4 
the Earth came tumbling down from the Rool' o^ my 
Cave, «nd from the Edge of the Hill over my Head, 
and two of the I'ofts I bad fee up in the Cave, ciack'd 
in a frightful manner .• i was heartily feared, but thought 
nothing of what really was the Caule ; only thinking 
tliat the Top of my Cave was falling io, as fooic of it 
■h«d4one before ■, and I'br fear 1 ihould be baried in it, 
X raivfotwJrdto my Ladder, and rot thinking my felf 
fale there neither, I got over my, Wall tor fear of the 
Piec6s of the HEll which I eapeaed might roll down up- 
on me I was no fooner fteptdown upon the firm 
Ground, but i plainly faw it was. a terrible Earthquafte, 
for the Crouiid I flood on fliook three Times, at about 
«ighi Mintttes Dirtwice;. with tliree fuch Shocks as 
£ 2 ' would 



Google 



(70 

would ha7C overturned the ftrongeft Building that 
could lie luppoled to have flood on the Earth ; and a 
great Piece o^'the Top of a Rock, which flood about 
half a Mile from nie aext the Sea, fell down with fuch 
a tejTiblc Noii'e, as I never heard in all my Life- I 
perceived a!fo, the very Sea was put into a violent Mo- 
tion by it ; and I believe the Shocks were ftronger uoder 
the Vi atcr than on the Ifland. 

1 was fo amaz'd with the Thing it felf, having never 
felt the like, or difcours'd with ary one that had, that 
I was like one dead or ftupified ; and the Motion of 
the Earth made my Stomack fiek, like one that was 
to[s'd at Sea ; but the Noile of the falling ot the Rock 
awaked me, as it were, and rouiing me from the ftu- 
pified Condition I ivas in, fill'd nie with Horror, and 
J thought of nothing then but the Hill falling upon my 
Tent, and all my Houihold-Good^, and burj'ing all aC 
once ; and tills idnk my very Soul within me a iecond 

Alter [he third Shock was over, and I felt no more 
for Ibme Time, I began to take Courage, and yet I had 
not Heart enough to get over my Wall again, for fear 
of being buried alive, but fat Kill upon the Ground, 
greatly caft down and difconfolaie, not knowing what 
to do: Ail this wliile 1 had not the Icaft lerious reli- 
gious Thought, nothing but the common, Zer/i ba.' 
Mtriy open tnc ; and when it was over, that ivent away 

MBiiie I fat thus, T found the Air over-caft, and it grew 
cJoudy, as if it would rain; and in !els than half an Hour , 
it blew a moft dreadful Hurricane of Wind ; The Sea 
all on a liidden cover'd with Foam and Froth, the ■ 
Shore was cover'd with the Breach of the Water, the 
. Tret's Avere torn up by the Roots, and a terrible Storm 
it was ; and this held about thrte Houi-s, and then be- 
gan to abate, and then in two Houi-s more it was calm, 
and began to rain very hard. 

All this while 1 fat upon the Ground very much ter- 
■rifitd anddejeifted, when on a fudden it came into my 
Thoughts, that thefe Winds and Rain being the Con- 
lequcnce of the Earthquake, the Earthquake it felf 
was J'lxrnt and overj and I might venture into my C^ve 
again. 

I Google 



( 77 ) 

again ; With this Thought my Spirits began to revii'C, 
and the Rain helping alio to perlwade me, I went in 
and iat down in my Tent j but tlie Rain was lb vio. 
lent, that my Tent was ready to be beaten down, 
with it, and I was forced to go into my Cave, tlio' 
very much afraid and uneaiy, for fear it Ihould fall on 
my Head, 

This violent Rain forced me to a new Work, vi'^, to 
cut a Hole thro' my new Fortification like a Sink to let 
the Water go out, which would e!fe havedrown'd my 
Care. After I had been in my Cave forne time, and 
found ftill no more Shocks of the Eaithi^uake follow, I 
began to be more compoled ; and now, to lupport my 
spirits, which indeed wanted it very much, I ^veni to 
my little Store, and took a fmall Sup of Rum, \vfiicli 
however I did then and always very iparingly, ];now- 
ing I could have no more when that was gone. 

it continued raining all that Night, and gi-eat part 
of the next Day, fo that I could not ftii- abroad ; but 
my Mind being more compoied, I began to think of 
what I had heft do, concluding, tlii:t if the Ifland was 
liibjeit to thefe Earthquakes, there would be no living 
for me in a Cave, but 1 mufl confider of building me 
tome little Hut in an open Place, \vhich I might fur- 
round with a Walt, as Iliad done here, and ib make 
my felf fecure from wild Beafts or Men ; but concluded , 
if" I (laid where I was, I ihould certainly, one time or 
Other, be buried alive. 

, With thele Thoughts I refolv'd to remove my Cent 
fromrithe Place where, it flood, which was jufl under 
the banging Precipice of the Hiil, and which, if it 
fliould be Jhaken again, would certainly fall upon my 
Tent; A'nd I fpcnt the two next Days, being the 19th 
^nd 20th of April, in contriving where and how to re- 
move my Habitation. 

The Fear of being Iwallow'tl up alive, made mc, that 
I never Ocpt in quiet; and yfit the Apprehenfion of 
lying abroad without any F^cc, was almofl equal to 
it ; But ftill, wfhen I look'd tbout, and fa%v how every 
thing was put in Order, how pleafantly conceaVd I 
wa#and how fafc from Danger, it made me very lotK 
•o remove, 

E J Ib 

Ho.r-d by Google 



(78) 



Id the tmaa time it oceurr'd to me, that it woulcl 
Teqiiire a vaft deal of Time for me to do tbiSj and that 
1 miiil Ije contented to run die Venture where I ivas,- 
till i bad ibrni'd a Cauip for my fclf, and had fecured 
it fo as to remove to it : So with this Refclurion I com- 
poihd my felf" for a Time, and refoWd that 1 would go 
to work with all fpeed to huild me a Wall with Piie« 
and Cables, £5.-. in a Circle, as before, and let my Tent 
ip in it when it was finifli'd, hut that I would venture 
to (lay where I was, till it was fini&'d and fit to re- 
move to. This was the 2ift. 

^rii 22. The next Morning I bmgan to conJider of 
Means to puftUsReroIve in execution; .hut. I was aB 
a great Lofs aboot my Tools: I had three large Axes, 
and abundance of Hatchets, { for we carried the HaO* 
«l:ets for Traffic with the Iiui'mns ) but with much chop^ 
ping and cutting knotty hard Wood, iliey were all full 
of Ni/tches, and dull ; and tho' I had a Griniiitone, I 
could not turn it and grind my Tools toe ; This coll 
me as much Thought as a Siatefman would have be- 
■flow'd upon a grand Point of PoHticks> or a Judga 
Upon the Life and Death of a Man. At lisiigth I con- 
trived a W heel with a String, to turn it with my Foot, 
^at I might'hnre both my Hands at Liberty^ N^ti 
I had not feen any fiich TbiiR in En?JitiiJ, or it leaft 
cot to take Notice how it wm aoae, iho' lince t llnvt 
obferved, it is very common there ; beiides that, m^ 
Grindftone was very large and heavv. This Machine 
coft Hire a full Week's Work, "fo bring it to Piirfeaion. 

jipt:ii'3&, 39. Thefe two whole Days i: took up'lft. 
grinding my Tools, my Machine Jor turting niy Grind-;- 
ftoncperfofmiwg very weH. 

April 30. Having perceived my Bread had been low 
-a great (vhile, I now took a Survey of it, and reduced 
my felftooneBisket-cake a Day, whiciunademyHea« 
very heavy. 

Maf I. fn the Morning looking >awards the SeSJ 
fide, the Tide being low, I law Ibmeshiflg lie on the 
SJiore bigger than ordinary, and it loo k'<t .'like a'Caskj 1 
when I came ta it, T found a i'mall Barrflt, and two or^ ' 
Shtte Piecei::of the :W.rcck of the ;Ship,. which ^re 
driven on Shore by the late. Hurricane, and looting to- 
•■ ■ . wards 



(79) 



wards tlie Wreck it felf, 1 tliouglit it Teemed to !j5 
higher out of the Water than it ufcd to do ; i e^crtniineA 
the Barrel ivhicli was driven on Sliore, ard loon found 
it was a Barrel of Gun-powder, but it had taken Wa-- 
ter, and the Powder was caked as hard as a Stone : 
However, I rolled it farther on Shore for the prelent, 
and went on upon the Sands, as near as I coirid to tlic 
Wreck of the ihip, to look lor more. 

When 1 came down to the Ship, ! found it flrange- 
ly removed .• The t'orecaftle, which lay befoi-e buried 
in Sand, w.-.s heav'd up at leafl fi« Foot, and the Stern, 
which was broke to- pieces, and parted f om the reft by 
the Force of the Sea, foon aitcr 1 had left ruiiima^ina 
cf her, was tols'd as it vrere up, and call on one Side, 
and the S.-.nd Vias thrown fo high on that Side next the 
Stevi), that whereas there was a great Place of Water be- 
fore, fo that .1 could not come within a Quarter of a 
Mile of the Wreck without fwimining, I could now 
walk quite up to her when the Tide was out. I was 
furprited with tliis at firft, l)Ut fooii concluded it muft 
be done by rlie Earthquake; and as by this Violence the 
Ship was more broken open than formerly, fo many 
things came daily on Shore which t!ie Sea had loofen'd, 
find which the Winds and Watei- rolled by dej^reea to- 
the Land. j.'. 

Tbi« wholly diverted my Thoughts fvom the De/ign 
of removing my Habitation; and I bufied my lelf 
mightily that Day cfpecially, in fearching whetiier I 
could make any way into the Shin, but J found nwhing 
was to be etpeded of that kind, for that all iJie infide 
o) the Ship was choak'd up with Sand : However,- as I 
had learnt not to defpair of any thing, I refolved to 
full evei-y thing to pieces that I could of the Ship, con- 
cluding that every thing I could get Irom her would be 
•f fome Ule or ether to me. 

May 3. I be^n with my Saw, and cut a Piece of a 
Beam thro", which I thought held feme of the upper 
tart, or Qiiarier-Deck, together, and wheh I had cut 
It thro', I cleared away the Sand, ai weir a? I could, 
from the Side which lay highefl ; but the Tide coming, 
ia, I was obliged to give over for that time. ^ 

E 4 ^ " 

Hooted by Google 



(So) 

May 4. I went a-fifliing, but caught not one FiiTi tlist 
T durlt eat of, till I was weary of my Siiort, when 
juft going m leave o«^ I caught a young Dolphin. I 
tiad made me a long Line o (Tome Ro^e- Yarn, but I 
had no Hooksj yec T frequently caught Fifli enough, as 
much as 1 cared to eat ; all which 1 dryed in the Sun, 
snd eat them dry. 

May ''■,. Work'd on the Wreck, cut another Beam 
arunder, and brought three great Fir Planks o/Ffrom 
the Decks, which 1 tied together, and made Avini on 
Shore when the Tide of Flood came on. 

May 6. Work'd on ihe Wreck, got Teveral Iron Bolts 
eut other, and other Pieces of Iron Work, work'd very 
bard.and came home s^iy much tir'd, and hadThoughts 
of giving it ovei*. 

May 7, Went to the Wreck again, but with an Intent 
not to work, but found the Weight of the Wreck had 
broke ic lelf down, the Beams being cut, that feveral 
Pieces of the JJhip feem'd to lye loole, and the Infide of 
the Hold lay fo open, that 1 could lee into it, but al- 
nioft full ofWater and Sand. 

May S. Went to the Wreck, and carried an Iron 
■Crow to wrench up the Deck, which lay now quite 
clear of the Water or Sand ; I wrcnch'd open two 
Planks, and brought them on Shore alio with the 
Tide : 1 left the Iron Crow in the Wreck for next Day. 

May 9. Went to the Wreck, and with the Crow 
Riadft Way into the Body of the Wreck, and felt feveral 
Casks,- and loofen'd them wit!i the Crow, '■ but could 
rot break them up; I felt alfo the Roll of Etg/f/6 Lead, 
iand could ftir it, but it was toe heavy to move. 

Mtvf 10,11, 13, 13, 14. Went every Day to the 
-Wreck, and got a great deal of Pieces of Timber and 
Boards, or Plank, and 2 or 300 Weight of Iron. 

May 1 S. 1 carried two Hatchets to try if I could not 
cut aPieceofFof the Roll ofLead, by placing the Edge 
of one Hatchet, and di iving it with the other ; but as it 
Jay about a Foot and a half in the Water, I could not 
make any Blow to drive the Hatchet. 

M<g 16. It had blow'd hard in the Night, and the 
Wreck appear'd more broken by the Force of the Wa- 
ter i but I ftay'd fo long in the Woods to get Fidgeons 
for 



Googe 



(8i ) 

for Foocl, that the Tide prevented me going to t!ie 
Wreck that Day. 

Maf 17. I faw fotrie pieces of the Wreck blown on 
Shore, at a great Diilance, tivo Miles oft" ins, but re- ■ 
(b)v'd to fee whaC they were, and found it was a piece 
of the Head, but too heavy for me to hiing aiv^y. 

My 24. Every Day to this Day 1 wurk'd on the 
Wreck, and with hard Labour I loofen'd fome things lo 
niucb with the Crow, that 'he firft blowing Tide ih- 
veral Casks flaated out, and two of the Seamen's 
Chefts; hut the Wind blowing from the Shore, no- 
thing came to L»nd that Day, but pieces of Timber, 
and a Hogftiead which had loine Brazil Pork in it, but 
the Salt-water and the Sand had fpoil'd.it. 

I eontinue4 this Work every Day to the i-^th of 
^uiK, except the Time neceGFary to get Food, whicii I 
always appointed, during this Part ot'iiiv Employment, 
tobetvhen the Tide was up, thai I might be ready 
when it was ebb-'d out, and by this Time J had gotten 
Timber, and Plank, and Iron-Work enough to have 
built a good Boat, il' I had known how 1 and alio I got 
at feveral times, and in fcveral Pieces, near 100 Weight' 
of the Sheet-Lead. 

7«/ie 16. Going down to the Sea-fide, I found a large 
Tortotfc or Turtle ; this was the firft I !iad ten, which 
it feems was only my Misfortune, not any Defeft of 
the Plaee, or Scarcity ; for had I happsn'd to he on the 
other Side of the Idand, I might have had Hundreds of 
them every Day, as 1 found afterwards ; but perhaps 
had paid dear enough for them. 

Jane 17. I fpent in cooking the Turtle ; I found in 
her three-fcore Eggs ; and her Flefli was to me at that 
time the moft faroury and pleafant that ever I called in 
tKy Life, having bad'"no Fleih, bat of Goats and Fotv.lS) 
iince i landed in this horrible Place. 

jfane I E. Kain'd all- Day, and f fFay'd within. I 
thought at this time the Rain tclt cold, and 1 was fonie* 
thing chilly, which I knew was not ul'ual iii that La- 
titude. 

Jane 19. Very ill, and fbivcring, as if the Weather, 
bad been cgld< 



E5 



'■TSooglj 



^ant 20. No Raft all, flight, Tiofent Pains in my. 
Head, and fL.-verilh. 

Jane 31- Very iil, MgUted almoft to Death with 
the Apprehenfions of my fad Condition, to be fick, 
and no Help : Pray'd to God for the iiril lime fince 
the Stoimoff of Jfai', but Icarce knew wliat I faid,0E 
wliyi my Thoughts being. aU confiif-d. 

y«w 22. A little better, but under dreadful Appre- 
henfions of Sicknefs. 

Suae 29,' Very lad again, cold and QiiverBig, an3 
then a violent Head-ach. 

^uoi 24. Much better. 

J'ftfle 2^. An AgUe'very violent; the Pit heTd me 
ftren Hours, cold Fit and hot, with faint Sweats af- 
ter it, • 

^itr,e 26. Better j and having no ViifVuals to eat, took 
my Gun, but found niy felf very weak ; however I 
kill'd a She-Goat, and with n)uch Difficulty got \t. 
Home, and broil'd feme of it, and eat; I would. faifl. 
have (icwed it, and made Ibme Broath, but had no Kot. 

^ime 27. The Ague ag^ti^fo violent, that I lay a-bed. 
all Day, and neither eat or drank.. I was-^eady to pe- 
rifii for Thirft, but ib weak, I had not Strength to- 
fland up, or to jjet my felf any Water to d^inki.Pray'd 
to God again, but was light-beaded,, .and, ^h^n I w*as 
not,'! was faignorant,.iJiat T knew, .ijot^vh^t . to &yj. 
only I lay and cry'd, Zitril Im^. upon. me, i-erd pilj «w,. 
ZoT'dhaveMei'cy upaUme : I'^a^'^akX did nothing eifc 
far two or tliiee Hours, till tile Fit wearing off, I. tey^. 
a'dcep, and did not wake till far in the Night. When- 
1 wak'd, I found my fell much refrelh'd, but weak, and 
exceeding thijrfty : However, as I had no Water in my 
whole Hal) itation, I wasforc'dio Ij^.tiil Mpraing, and 
went to fleep again : Iji this ^qqpd, Skcp, L had this, 
terrible Dream. ,-. . I'i 

I thought, thati was fitting on the-Ground on the 
Outfide of my Wall, where' I lat when the Stprm btew 
after the Earthquake^ and that I faw:,a, Man dcfceijd 
from a great Mack Cloud, in a bright Flame of. Fire, 
and light upon the Ground : He was all. over as bright 
as a Planie, ?a that I could hut juft bear to look towards, 
luiit i his Countenance was nwll inexprelfibly dreadful, 
impollible 



|le 



(83) 

impoffitJe for Words to defcribe ; when lie ftepp'd up- 
on the Ground with his Feet, I tliouglit tlie EmiIi 
tretribled, juft as it had done before in the Earthiiuake, 
and all the Air look'd, to my A pprehenfior, as if it 
had been fill'd with Flaihes of Fire. 

' He was no fooner lauded upon the Earth, but he 
moved forward towards nie, with a long Spear or Wea- - 
pon in his Hand, to kill nicj and when he came to a 
rifing Gronnd, at foaie Diftance, he ipoke to me, or t 
heard a Voice To terrible, that it is impoitibletocxprefs 
the Terror of it ; all that I can fay, I underliood, was 
this, Seeing all tbefe Th'ims have mt brought thie to Re- 
pentance, nov> thapa'lt rfie .' At which Words, I thought 
he lifted up the Spear that was in his Hand to kill me. 

No one that ihall ever read this Account, wil! eKpeifc- 
that I fliould be able ft defcribe the Horrors of'niy^oul 
at this terrible Vifion ; I mean, that even while it was 
a Dream, I even dreamed of tJiofe Horrors i nor is it 
any more polfihle to defcribe the Imprcifion that re- 
niain'd' upon my Mind when I awaked and found it- 
was hut a Dream, 

I had, alas! no divine Knijyvledge; what I had re- 
ceived by the good loftruiftlon of my Father, was then-, 
worn out by an uninterrupted Series, for 8 Years, of- 
Seafeating Wick^d^ef^ and a conftarit Confervation with 
nothing but fuch as were' like my felf, wicked and pro- 
fane to ;the lail pegrce ■■ I do not reni^ber, that I had" 
iir atj tliat Time one Thought that fo much as tended 
either to looking upwards to^vards God, or inwards' 
towards a Reflection' upon my own ways,: But a cer- 
tain Stupidity of Soul, without. Deljre o[Good,.orCon- 
Iciencc of Evil, had entirely ovenvhtlm'd me, and I 
was, all that the moft hardned, unthinking wicked 
Creature among our common Sailors can be fuppofcd to 
be, not having the lead Senfe, eithct, of the Fear of 
God in Dangers, or of Thankfuluefs to God injDeli- 
Vfrances.' 

(ntberelating^ what is already pall" of my Story; this 
will be the more eafily believed, when I Jha.ll add, that, 
thro' all the Variety of Mifevies that had to this Day_ 
befallen me, I never had fo much as one Thought, of. 
its.ieiogiflie Hand of God, ot thatJt.was a juti Funil]w>, 
mens: 



Googje 



( 84 ) 

ifient for my Sin, my rebellious Behaviour againft my 
Father, or my prelent Sins, wliicli were great ; or Co 
much as a Punillvnier,t for the general Courfe of my 
wicked Life. When I was on the defperate Expedi- 
tion on the defart Shores oi ^rka, I never had Co 
much as one Thought ot what would become of me, 
vr one WiJh to God to direft me whither I ihould go, 
or to keep me from the Danger which apparently lur- 
rounded me, as well from voracious Creatures as cruel 
Savages : But I was meerly thoughtlefs oi God, or a 
Providence, afted like a meer Brute (rom the Princi- 
ples of Nature, and by the Diftates of common Scnfe 
only, and indeed hardly that. 

Wlien I was dellver'd and taken up at Sea by the 
Pmtiigal Captain, well uied, and dealt juftly and ho- 
liourably with, as well as charitably, I had not the 
leaft Thankfulnefs in my Thoughts -■ When again ! was 
ftiptvreck'd, ruin'd, and in Danger of drowning on this 
Ifland, 1 was as far fi-cm Remorfe, or looking on it as 
2 Judgment ; I only faid to my felf often, that I was 
a/1 uafi-lunate D"g, and born to be always mi ferable. 

It is true, when I got on (hore firft here, and found 
all my Ship's Crew drown'd, and my felf fpared, I 
was lurpriz'd with a kind of Extafy, and fame Tranf- 
ports of Soul, which, had the grace of God afTilled^ 
might have come up to true Thanlcfulnels ; but it end- 
ed where it b^un, in a iiieer common Flight of Toy, or, 
as I may fay, beiu^ glad I ivas alive, without the lead 
Refledlion upon the diftlngjifhing Goodncfs of the Hand, 
which had prei'erved me, and had fingled me out to be 
prcferv'd, when all the reft were deftroy'd ; or an En- 
quiry why Provide;:ce had been thus merciful to me ; 
even Juft the fame common fort of Joy which Seamen, 

tsnerally have after they have got fafe a ihore from a, 
hipwreck, which they drown all in the rest Bowl of 
Punch, and forget aliiwft as foon as it is ever, and art 
the reft of my Life w« like it. 

Even when I was afterwards, on due Conflderation, 
made fenlihle of my Condition, how 1 wascaftonthis 
dreadful Place, out of the Reach of human Kind, out 
of ail Hope of Relief, or Profpeft of Redemption, as 
foon as 1 law but a Profpeft ot' Living, and that I 
fliould 



c5| 



(85) 

fiiouli not ftarve and periih for Hunger, all the Senfe 
of my Afftiilion wore off, and I begun to be very eafy, 
apply'd mylelftothe Works proper ibr my Prefervation 
ana Sapply, and wm far enough from being afflided at 
my Condition, as a Judgment Irom Heaven, or as tbe 
Hand of God againft me : Thefe were Thoughts which 
very feldom enter'd into my Held. 

' The growing up of the Corn, as is hinted in my Jour- 
nal, had at firft lome little Influence upon me, and 
begantoafifeftme with Serioufnefs, as long as I thought 
it had fomething miraculous in it; butasfbonas ever 
that Part of the Thought was removed, all the Impref- 
fion which was raifed irom it wore offalfo, as I have 
noted already- 

Even the Earthquake, tho' nothing could be more 
terrible in its Nature, or more immediately direfting 
to the viitble Power, which alone direiis iuch things, 
yet no fooner was tbe firft Fright over, but the Im- 
preilion it had made went off alio. 1 had no more Senfc 
of God or his Judgments, much lefsofthe prefent AiHi- 
Aion of my Circumftanees, being from his Hand, than 
if I had been in the moft profperous Condition of Lift. 

But now when I began to be fick, and a leifurely 
Vieivofthe Miferiesof Death came to place it felf be. 
fore me ; when my Spirits began to (ink under tlie Bur- 
den of a flrong Diftemper, and Nature was exhaufted 
with the Violence of the Fever ; Confcience, that had 
flept fo long, began to awake, and I began to reproach 
my felfwith my pad Life, in which 1 had fb evidently, 
by uncommon Wickednefs, provoked the Juftice of 
God to lay me under uncommon Strokes, and to deal 
with me in fo vindiftive a manner. 

Thefe Refkftions opprefs'd me for the fecond or third 
Day of my Diftemper, and in the Violence, aswellof 
the Fever as of the dreadtul Reproaches of my Con- 
fcience, extorted fome Words from me, like praying 
to God, tho' I cannot fay they were either a Prflyer at- 
tended with DeGres, or with Hdpes ; it was rather the 
Voice of meer Fright and Diftfefs ; my Thoughts were 
confufed, the Convlftions gr4at upon my Mind, and 
the Horror of dying in fuch a miferable Condition 
raifed Vapours into my Head with the meer Appre,- 
henfioD^,. 



Goo^I^ 



(SO, 

henfibns *, ancl in tlieie Hurries ofmy Soul, I know roir 
what my Tongue might enprels : But it was rather , 
EncUmation, liigh as, Lori^ ! what a niiferaWe Crea- 
ture am I ! in fliould be fidi, ,i fliall certainly die for 
want oi'Help, and what wiil'bccomeof me ! Then the 
Tears burll out ofmy Eyes, and I coald fay no more 
a good while. _ , 

in thisioterval,, the good Advice ofmy Father came 
to my Mind, and prtfently ijis Prediclion, which I inen- 
tion'd in the beginning of this Story, viz. Tifnt ifl M 
ti^e tils fiiBlijh Step, Godv)i/utd,ttot h'uji me, and Inaulii 
b^jc Xeifure bere^ter torejle.$: upea. b^'^higncgleded hit- 
Cftixjel, ■mhm there might be no/ie to 00 we irtf^ Ri- 
civery. Now, faid I aloud, my dear Father's Words-, 
are come to pi^s : God's Juilice has ov-ertaken nie, and 
I have-flone to help or he^r jne : 1 rej-ited tlie Voice of 
Providence, .wbjcn had mercifully put me in a Poftare , 
of Station of Life, wherein [ aiigUt have been happy • 
and eafy ;.but 1 would neither fee it my felt^ or learn, 
to know the Blefling ofit &om my Parents ; I left them ' 
to mourn over my Polly,, and now I ain left to mourn 
under tte Confetjuences of it : I refufed their Help and 
Afliftance, who. would have lifted me into the World, 
and would have made every thirg ^^-^y to me, and mvt-- 
I "have Difficulties to ftru^le with, too great for even 
N^^e itfcJQto/upport, ahd^io Afiiftanoe, no Help, no 
doijalbrli no Advjce. TJj^n I cry'd ou^ tof'd be n^ 
%4vJi>tJ, ftp. 'iaxrett-pijirtfs. " 

-This was,th&'#rlt Prayer, if I may call; it fo that 
I'had nia^e" ^r\ many Years. But I return to ,my 
Journal- 

' 7a«e 28. Having been . rpjijewbat refreih'd with the 
Sleep I-J^ad had, and tbs.Pit bqing' entirely off, I got 
up J anddio* the Fright, and Terror of my Dream wasr 
very great, yetlcoiiJld«red,,*hat;tIie Fit ol the A-gue 
v(ould retu».n again fhe' next t>ay,and now was my 
Time to get fomeriiitig to refrefli and fupport my fclf; 
wlKaiTApuld be ill ;. and i^ie, firftiblng-l did, Ifill'd! 
a'la'rge fijuare Cafe Bottle wiflv Waeer* and fet it upon 
my Table, in reach of my Bed ; and to take off the 
chill or aguiih, Difpofition .of the Wa^er, I . put about. 
a.Qjia;Wr.of a-Pint. oi'ltiuii tar^-hjMiixai^Ai ^leni; 
t&; 

I Cookie 



(87 ) 

togeflfer ; rtlien I K"! ■ nje a Piece of tbe Goat's ■Fleflij, 
and broil'A it. on the Coa,!s, tut could eat very little j 
rwaiked about, biit was very weak, and wiiha^ very, 
fed and heavy- lieaited in the Senle oi'ruy miierabli; Con- 
dition, dreading the Rctiirn of my Diilemper the next 
Day; ^t. Night I made my Supper oJ' three of the 
Turtle's Eggs, which I. roafied in the Aflies, and eat,, 
as we call.i^ in the ?hell ; a^dthis was the hril Hit of- 
Meatl had ever ask'd Gt-d;? B^ilingfo,,evin aslcould; 
rem'emljqr, in' m.^ vfboie lUfe. 

A|i:et T had'eai;en.,X tr>-'jl,tD walkbuC found my 
felf fo' weak, iHu\ CDiild .Ijari^ly, car^y the Gun( foir- 
I neyer' went^out witfiout that";i fol weetlmt a little; 
Way, and fat down upoii the Ground, looking out up- 
on the Sea, which wasjuft before iite,'and verycalm^ 
andfniooth: As i fat' here, feme Thoughts Ikch as tbefe 
occiu-redto.mer. ■, ' ' ; - . 

, Whatis this Earth .a^id Seij^wbichrl have Teen lot 
much ! whence is it prodnc'd, and what am'f, andallf 
die.oriier Creatures,' .wild ^apd-tan^, Ijumanand hrytsl, 
w.hen'ce are 'we? '. ' ' 

Surewe are'aS niade ,fc/ feme fccret Povsfer, vihot 
fprm'd the Earli and Sea, the Air ajid Sky ; and .who- 
isthat? ■ ■ ■■ . ; , 

. T hen I it, followed ■ mpft natyra%j, it is Gci'd, that"hW 
urade ita!b Wellihiit thecit came flnflfifigejy ^ if,(fO(J' 
has.it^a^e.all't'h^i^'.TJui^s^ H^;guidj^^,afldgowerni-theii|' 
all, ,and-alJ',t"h^5''tfi^'cOjiicer4i* thein'}: m .tUp^o^ef;, 
that ociUTd tmlie aitThic^,,(iiutt|(^c£ajiiiyhave I^o\vec, 
to guide 'an'ddifeft'theiti. " ■■ ■ - - ^ 

I:£ fo, nothing pap , l^ippen in die great Circuit ;of 
his Works, eitlier withoiit his Kiiowledge or Appoint^ 
nient. ' ,„...., 

^f^^itnothinghfippens without his Kjno-wJedge, 'he- 
knows that I- am he^e, ajidam in.this4^eaaUllC<llpd^ti-. 
on,; aadifBothing'happens withfJii^ )^i».^ppoiptoieiir, 
he has appointed aU. lhi» to befalmc. ■ - . - 

Notbii^ flccurr'd to my Thoiwhts to contrndiil any, 
of tliefe Conclufions ; and thertfore-it refled upon ma 
with, the greater Force; that it mull needs be, that 
God had appointed all this to t>eFal me ; that I >va%. 
tiroug^tto ttu3 (#«/iWe, .Cucttaift»5W b^ ¥» Dirqaii^ 



Goo3|- 



(88) 

on, lie having the fole Power, nor of me only, but of 
every Thing that happen'd in the World. Immediate, 
ly it folbw'd. , ■ ■, ' ■ 

WiSj" has Gad dune tbistimef VCirat baveldrneti Be 
thus us'd ? 

My Confcience prefently check'ct me in that Enquiry, 
asift hadfa]afpheni'd,andmechoughtitrpoketomelike 
a Voice ; WRElCH! drfl thm ask wbal thou bafi ^stit't 
Look back upon a dreadful mif-fpeni Life, and siV. thy 
felf Tohat t&M hi^ nut done i Ask, Why is it that tbou m'n 
rat long ag^ deflrsj'd ? Why nert thuu tut droVD^'d in Yar- 
mouth Roads ? Killed in the Fight wbeh the Sbip was 
taken by the SalUe Man of War ? Btvout'd by tbe wild 
Beafis en the Cf0 of Africa ? Or, drov>n'd HERE, when 
aU the Crew per'fi'd but tbyfelfl Doit thou ask, What 
baveldone? " _ 

I was (Vruck dumb with thefe ReflciSions, as one a-' 
ftoniihed, and had not a Word to fey, no not to anfwer 
to my febf", but rofe up peniiye and lad, walk'd back td 
my-ReCreat, and went up over my Wall, as if I had 
■ been going to Bed, but my Thoughts were fadly di- 
fturb'd, and I had no inclination to fleep ; fo 1 1'at dowa 
in my Chair, and lighted my Lamp, for it began to be 
dark. Now, as the ApprehenCon of the return of my 
Kilemper terrify'd rte very much, it, occur'd to my 
Thought, that the BrajtH^s take no Phyfick but their 
Tobacco, fbr almoft all Diltempers ; and IhjdaPiece. 
df a Roll of Tobacco in one of the Chefls, which was 
quite cured, and -fortie alfo that was green, and not 
quite cured. 

I went, direfted by Heaven no doubt, for in this, 
Cheft I found a Cure both fbr Soul and Body ; I open- 
ed the Chert, and found what I rlook'd for, vij. the 
Tobacco ; and as the few Books t had fav'd laythere, 
toe, I took out one of tlic Bibles which I mentibri'd' 
before, and which to tills time i had not found Leifure, 
or fo much as Inclination to look into ; I fay, ( took it 
out, and broughtboth that and the' Tobacco with me 
to the Table. 

What U(h to make of the Tobaeco, I knew rot, as 
to my Diftemper, or whether it ivas good fbr it or no ;' 
but I try'dfevcral- Experiments wiA it, asiffwasre- 

jQlv'd , 



(8?) 

rolv'd it IhonU, hit one Way ov other : I firft took a 
Piece of a Leaf, and chew'd it -in ni)' Mouth, which 
indeed at iirft almoft ftupify'd my Brain, the Tobacco 
being green and ftrong, and that I had not been much 
us'd to it •, then 1 took feme and fteeped it an Hour or 
twoinl^um, and refoiv'd to take a Dofe ofit wbeni 
lay down ; and laftly, I burnt fonie iipon a Pan of Coals, 
and held my Nofc clofe over the bmokeof it as long 
as I could bear it, as well for the Heal as the Virtue 
of it, and I held it alnioft to Suffocation, 

In the interval of this Operation, I took up thtEi- 
blc and began to read, but my Head was too much di- 
fturb'd with the Tobacco to bear reading, at leafl: at that 
time ; only having opeu'd the Book cafually, the firft 
Words that occur'd to me were thde. Call on nte in the 
Day nj'Troubh, and I mill dtliver, and tbnu foatt glorify 
me. 

The Words were very apt to my Cafe, and made 
fume Impreflion upon my Thoughts at the Time of read- 
ing them, tho' not fo much as they did afterwards ; for 
as for being deliver'd, the Word had no Sound, as I 
'"'**', iVi to me; the Thing was fo remote, fo impofli- 
hlc in my Apprehenfion of Things, that I began to fay 
as the Children of Jfriel did, when they were promis'd 
Fleih to eat. Can Godjpread a Table in tbe Wildernefs f 
So I began to to fay, Can God himleif deliver me from 
this Place ? And as it ivas not for many Years that any 
Hope appear'd, this prevail'd very often upon my 
Thoughts : But however, the Words made a great Im- 
preflion Upon me, and I mufed upon them very often, 
itgretv nowlate, and the Tobacco had, as I faid, doi'd 
my Head fo much, that I inclin'd to fleep ; fo I left 
my Lamp burning in the Cave, left I (hould want any 
thing in the Night, and went to Bed ; but before I lay 
down, [ did what i never had done in all myLife, I kneel- 
ed down and pray'd to God to fulfil the Promife to me, 
that if I call'd upon him in the Day of Trouble, he 
Would deliver me ; after my broken and imperfea Prav- 
Er was over, I drunk the &.um in which I hadfteepd 
the Tobaeco, which was fo ftrong and rank of the To- 
bjcco, that indeed I could fcarce get it Atmn. Immc- 
liatfly upon this I went to Bed, .ind I found prcftntly it 
Aevr 



, Google 



(90) 

JevKupintomy Head violently; but I-fclHnto afouncl 
Sleep, and waked no more till hy the Sun it mull; ne- 
cedarily be near Three o' Clock in the Afternoon the 
next Day ; nay, to this Hour I am partly of the Opi- 
nion, that I Oept all tlie nest Day and Night, and till 
alnioft three tSe Day after ; for otherwile I knew not 
how I ^ould loie a Day out of my Reckoning in the 
Days of the \("eek, as it appeared fome Yc?rsafterl 
had done; &r ifl had loll it by crofliog.and re-ciolfing 
the Line, IlhoiridhaveloSniorctliana l>ay, but in my 
Accoifzit, it was loflj and I never knew v.hieh way. 

Be that however one way or other, wlien I awak'd 
I found my felf e.tceedingly refrefli'd, and my Spirits 
lively and chearful ; when I got up> I wasftronijer than 
r was .the Day before, and my Stomach bette/, for I 
■(v^s huDgry ; and in fliort, I had no Fit the next Daj', 
but continued much alter'd for the belter : this was the 
29th. 

The 30th was my V/ell Day of Coi-.rfe, and I went 
abroad with my Gun, but did not care to travel too 
fo: I kitl'd a Sca-Fovvl or two, Ibmething like a 
Erand-Goole, and brought them Home, but wias not 
■very -forward to eat them; fo I eat fome more of the 
Turtle's Eggs> which were very good : This Evening, 
I renew'd the Medicine which I had fuppofed did me 
good tjie Day belbre, vix- the Tobacco Icecp'd in Rum, 
wly ^ jiid not take fo much as before, nor did I chew 
ajiy.of.ijje Leaf, qr hold my Head over the Smoke; 
however, I jv»» pot to, well the next Day, which iva* 
the ifl 4^7(11/, as I Jioped I ftjould have been ; for I 
1^ .1 little fpice.'of the cold Fit, but it v.;as noc 
muah. 

. felji 2. I renew'd tlie Medicine all tlie three ways, 
and dozed my feU with it as at firft, and doubled the 
Qjiantity which I drank. 

9. I mils'd the Fit for good and all, tho' I did not 
KCcover my fiill Strength .for fome Wc^ks after : While 
l.wes thus gatJi^ring S*rength, my Thoughts nro ei- 
ctedingly i^pon thi& Scripture, / will deliver iba ; and 
^ luiiyj^iiity of my Deliverance lay much upon 
my Mind, in bar of my ever expeifting it: But « 
X was difcouraging my fclf with fuch Thoughts, ij 



BCCHr'd to ipy Mind, that I pored Co Biuch Upon my 
Deliverance from the main Affliiftion, that I difregarded 
the Deliverance I ■ had received ; and I was, as it were, 
made to ask my felt fucli Queftions as thele, vi^. Have 
I not been deliver'dj ^nd wonderlully too, from Sicji- 
nels ? From the-moft diilrels'd Condition that could b^ 
and that was fo'jirightfi)! toifte? Aivd what notice bad I 
teicen of it ? Had 1 dofle my Part, God bad deliver'd tae, 
tut I bad ttit ghri^ed hims That is to, fay, I had not 
ewn'd and been thankful lor that as a Deliverance, and 
how could 1 expert greater Deliverance ? 

Tliis touch' d:»>y J Heart very niucli, and immediately 
Ikaieel'd.-dtiwn and- g?ve God Thanks alo^jjbr my 
Reeoc^l-j'-ko!;i (pyiSioknefe. 

'3h1jiA' iliiithti-&!p*nvia I toflk.the Bible, and, begin- 
ning af, the Ne^W TQftan>;nt, . 1 began ftrioi^y to rpad 
it, and impufed upon ■ ray felf to rtad a while every 
Morning and every Night, not t}ingniy lell'to the 
Numjier ot Chapters, but as long as my Thouglils 
fliculd engage me : It was not long alter 1 let feriouily 
to this. y^orK, ()ttt \ fes^iii P.^:Heart. njQrc,c^eply and 
fincerely afifefted with ^e Wicljedncfs of my pait Litcj 
Tlwinipieffiop' pf; my i^e^ .ijeviv'fl,, aofi t^etWords, 
4Stbele Mii^s b^ve n^f'trtn^bt tfxe to, ftepeM^vp^e, taa 
fiwiriufly in my ■jhavfibj-s': I was eaj-pe^lj- begging of 
Ct.d to give me ;.R*4>efltapcc, wiien it happen'd provi- 
^ncifijly the vcjy' Day that raa^ing the Scripture, I 
9bmgtb ■tJsefe,W:ord?,,.^ if ef^^tgd a Vritue and » 
^tukwrin give. Se/mrtffuifr, anA -^b ^hie^S^-ntiffiatu I 
»iirWfMiiwfi-tiie',B»olt;,.pnd with ;my I^eart fsweJl.as 
my Hands lifted up to Heaven, io 'a |Und of -pjttafy of 
Joy, .r.drj¥;d jouj »hu^,i^ui thu S^n ,c/ David, JV- 
Ifis, ib:a ' ■exaltid'FriiKeiMi'i Savkufi, £ive me .Ret 
pentoMe !■ ' 

Ihis Tiias the firfi time that J could fay, in the true 
Senfe ot" tic V\ ords, that I prayed in all my Liie ; foe 
fl'iiH,iM-ayeAjsirhji,Senle,of;»y Condition, ^pd with 
a true^Sori^pB-e View.oJvHope founded on M'^ Encoji- 
wgementofthe Wwd ofGodj aiid-Tiom this time, I 
•»"? fay, I faffgaa Mliatj; Hope that God wwildheac 



^oyi 



^^■^^'-^'-^8i' 



{ 90 

Noiv I began to conftrue the Words mentioned a- 
bove. Call on me, atid I nil! Aeliver you, in a difterenc 
Senic from what I had ever done befbre ; for then I had 
no Notion of any thing being called Deliverance, but 
my being delivered from the ijaptivity I was in, for 
tho' I was indeed at large in the Place, yet the Illand 
was certainly a Prifon to me, and that in the word 
Scnfe in the World ; but now I-learn'd to take it in an- 
other Senfe. How I look'd back upon my paft Lift 
with fucli Horror, and my Sins appeared fo dreadful, 
that my Soul fought nothing of God, but Deliverance 
from the Load of GuUt that bore down all my Com- 
fort. As for my folitary Life it was nothing; I did 
not fo much as pray to be delivered trom it, or think of 
it } it was all of^no Confideration in Comparifon to this ; 
and I added this Part liere, to hint to whoever ihal! 
Tcad it, that whenever they come to a true Senfe of 
things, they will find Deliverance from Sin a much 
greater BleiHng, than Deliverance from Affliflion. 

But leaving this Part, I return to my Journal. 

My Condition began now to be, tho' not lefs mlfer- 
abkas to myWay of living, yet miiah eafier to my 
Mind ; and my Thoughts being direAed, by a conftant 
reading the Scripture, and praying to God, to thing! of 
higher Nature; I had a gre^t deal of Comfort within, 
which till now I knew nothing of: Alfo, as my Health 
and Strength return'd, I beftirr'd my fclf to furnilh my 
ftlf with every thing that I wanted, and make my way 
of living as regular as 1 ceuld. 
■ From the 4th of^aJy to the i+tb, I wai chiefly em- 
ployed in waJking about with my Gun in my Hand, 
a little and a little at a time, as a Man that was ga- 
thering up his Strength after a Fit of Sicknefs ; For it 
is hardly to be imagin'd, how low I was, and to what 
Wcaknefs I was reducd. The Application wihich I 
made ufe of, was perfeftly new, 'and' ^haps what had 
never cur'd an Ague before ; neither can I recommend 
it to any one to praftice, by this Expcrijniint ; and tho* 
it did carry off the Fit, yet it rather contributed to 
vrcBkeo , 

Ho.r-db;,GooQle 



(S3) 



weaken me ; for I had frequent Convtillions In m^ 
Nerves and Lim!<s ior ibme time, 

I kartit from it ailb this in particular, that being 
abroad in the rainy $eafoiij was ihe tnoft pernicious 
thing to my Health that could be, efpecially in ehole 
Rains which came attended with Storms and Hurricanes 
of Wind i tbr as the Kain which came in a dry Seafon 
was always mod accompanied with fuch Storms, fo I 
found that Rain was much more dangerous than the 
Rain which fejl in Stptembtt and OSeber. 

I had been now in this unhappy Itland above lo 
Months ; all Poffibility of Deliverance from this Condi- 
tion feem'd to be entirely taken from me ; and I lirmly 
^elicved, that no human Sliajie had ever fet Foot up- 
on that Place, Having now iecur'd my Habitation, as 
I thought, fully to my Mind, I had a great Defire to 
make a more perfeft Difcovery of the Ifland, and to fee 
what other Produftions I might find , which yet I knew 
nothing of. 

Itwasthei^thofya/j-that I began to take a more 
particular Survey of the Ifland it ic!f: I went up the 
Creek firll, where, as I hinted, 1 brought my Katts on 
Shore. I tound, after I came about two Miles up, that 
the Tide did not flow any UigheT, and that it was no 
more than a little Brook of running Water, and very 
frelli and good ; but this being the dry Seafon, there 
was hardly any Water in feme Parts of it, at leaft 
not enough to run in any Stream, fo as it could be 
perceiv'd. 

On the Bank of this Brook I found many pleafant 
Savana's, or Meadows, plain, imooth, and eover'd with 
Grafs; and on the rifing Parts of them next to the 
higher Grounds, where the Water, as it might be iup- 
poled, never overflowed, I found a great deal of To- 
bacco, green and growing to a great and very ftrong 
Stalk: There sverediveis other Plants which I had no 
Notion of, or U nderftanding about, and might per- 
haps have Virtues of their own, whicTi I could not 
find out. 

1 Jearehcd for the Cajfava Root, which the hiHant 

ill all that Cliiiiaic make their Bread o^ but I could 

find 



.,GoogI^' 



{s'4 ) 

irn3 none, f faw lafge Plants of Aloes, hnt did not 
then underftand them. I fawfeveral Sugar- Canes, bat 
wild, and'tbrw-atit of eultlvatton, imperfeift. 1 con- 
tented my (elf ^Vith 'tliefe Difcovcries for this time, and 
■came back muling ivich my liHf What Courle I inight 
take to know the Virtue and Goodnefs of any of the 
Fruits or Plants wliicb I fnould difcover, l)ut could 
bring it to no Conclttflon ; for in fliort, I had made f<» 
little Obfcrvation while I was in the Brafih, that I 
knew little of the Plants in the Field, at lealt very little 
that might I'erve me to any Purpofe now in my 
Diflreft. 

The next Day, the i(5th, I Went up the fame Way a* 
gain, and after going ibmething farther than 1 had 
£<jne the Day before, I found the Brook and the St: 
•vatia'% began to ceafe, and tlie Country became more 
ivoody than before. In this Part I found different 
Fruits, and particularly I found Melons upon the 
Ground in gre^t Abundance, and Grapes upon the 
Trees ; the Vines haid J'pread indeed over the Trees, 
and the Clufters of Grapes were JKftnow.iirtheir Prime, 
very ripe and rich. This was a fm-prizing Difcovery, 
and I was exceeding glad of them; but I was warn'd 
by my Experience to eat Iparingly ofthem, remembring, 
tliat when I was afliore in Barbaiy, the eating of Grapes 
kill'd feveral of our E'^lijh Menwlio were Slaves there, 
by throwing them into Huxes and Fevers: Bat 1 found 
an excellent Ufe for thefe Grapes, and that was to cure 
or dry them in the Sun, and keep them as dry'd Grapes 
or Raifins are kept, which I thought would he, as in- 
tieed they were, as wholefome, and as agreeable to eat, 
when no Grapes might be had. 

I ipent all that Evening there, and went not back to 
lay Habitation, which by the way ivas the firft Night, as 
1 might fay, I had lain from Home. In the Night I tool: 
-Illy (irft Contrivance,, and got up into a Tree, ' " 



I- Jdept 1 
my Ditci 



Xtcovcry, travelling near fbUr Miles, as I inight 
juige by. tb« Length «f the Vally, keeping ftill due 
NortK with a Ridge of Hills on t& South' and Honh- 
§i4eoi-Bie. ... 

Hooted by Goosle 



(95^ 



At tT)c End of this March I came to an Opening,' 
where the Country feeni'd to defeend to tlit! Weft, and 
a little Spring ol frefe Water, which ilfued out ofthc 
Side of the Hill by ine, run tlie other Way, that is, 
due Eaft ; and the Counti-y appeared fo frdh, ib greets 
ib ilouiiliiing, every thing bein^ in a conftant Verdure 
or Plauvilh of Setting, that it look'd like a planted 
Carden. 

I defeended a little on the Side of that delieious 
Vally, liirveying it witli a fecret kind of Pl^alure, 
C though mist with iny other affliftiiig Thoughti ) to 
think that this w^.s all m> own, that 1 was Ring ar.d 
Lord of s^l this Couotry indetealibly, and had a Right 
■of Poffeffijn; andii-- juuld conyey it, 1 might haveit 
in Inheritance, as coitipleatly as any Lord of a.Manor 
in Ea^laa^!. I iaw here Abiindance of Cocoa Trees, 
Orange, and r^mon, and Citron Trees ; hut all ivild, 
and few bearing any Fruit, at leaft, not then: How. 
ever, the green Limes that I gather'd, were not unly 
pleafant to cat, but very wholeiome; and I mU'd their 
Juice afterwai-Js with V/ater, wliich iaade it very 
wholefonie, and Very cool and refrefliing.' 

i iuund now I had Bulioefs enough to gatlier and 
carry Houic ; and ! refolved to lay up a Store, as well 
of Grapes, as Liaies and Lemons, to furnifli ray felf for 
tlie wet Ssalim, which ! knew wis appro sciiing. 

In order fo this, J gather'd a gi-eat Heap of Grapes in 
■one Place, ar.t a lefler Heap in ano'ther Place, and a 
great ' ar-'el o:' Limes ard Lemons in another Place ; 
and taking a fbw of each with me, I traveU'd home- 
ward, andrcfilved to eumc again, and bring a Bag or 
■ Sack, or what I could tnake, to carrj' the reft Home. 
Accordingly, liaving fpenl three Da)-s in this Jour- 
ney, I came Home ( lo 1 n.uft now call my Tent and 
my Cave J hut before I got thither, the Grapes were 
fpoird, the Richn.fs of the Fruit and the. Weight of die 
Juice having broken them, and tflui led. them,, they were 
goiid ibr little or nothing ; as i"o the Limes, they ' w^rc 
£ood, but-i cou.ld linng but afew. t ■ . 

The ni;xt''My' h.\i-,^t]si: i9ih,.Pwent hack, hav- 
ing ,tliade.m''i tvjn [\ivi'] Baggs "to bring- Home my Har- 
Veit ; iJut 1 tv* . '^.'■^ firii'dj when cbmihg 16 tfiy" Heap 



.vGoogk' 



(96) 

ofGrapes, wliich were (b rich and fine when I gather'd 
them, I found them all fpread abroad, trod to Pieces 
and dragg'd about, Come here, fome there, and Abun- 
dance eaten and devoured: I by this I concluded there 
were fome wild Creatures thereabouts, which had done 
this ; but what they were I knew not. 

However, as I found that there was no laying them 
up on Heaps, and no carrying them away in a Sack, but 
that one Way they would ft defttoy'd, and the other 
Way they would be crufh'd with their own Weight, 
I took another Courfe ; for I gather'd a large Qyanlity 
of the Grapes, and hung them upon the Out-Branches 
of the Trees, that they might cure and dry in the Sun ; 
and as for the Limes and Lemons, I carry'd as many 
back as I could well Hand under. 

Wtfen I came Home from this Journey, I contem- 

{ilated with great Fleafure the Fruitfulnefs of that Val- 
ey, and the Plea&ntnefs of the Situation, the Security 
from Storms on that Side the Water, and the Wood, 
and concluded that I had pitch'd upon a Place to fis ni/ 
Abode, which was by far the word Part of the Coun. 
try. Upon the whole, I began to conlider of removing 
my Habitation, and to look out for a Place equally fafl-, 
as where I now was fituate, if poffible, in that pleafant 
friiitfiil Part of the Ifland. 

This Thought run_ long in my Head, and I was ex- 
ceeding fond of it for fome Time, the Pleafantnefs of the 
Place tempting me ; but when I cam2 to a nearer View 
of it, and to conlider that I was now by the Sea-fide, 
where it was at leaft poffible that fomething might hap- 
pen to my Advantage, and that the lame ill Fate that 
brought me hither, niight bring fome other unhapp; 
Wrdtchesto thefame Place ; andtho' it was fcarce pro- 
bable that any fuch thing fhould ever happen, yet to en- 
clofe my felf among the Hills and Woods, in the Cen- 
ter oftbe Wand, was to anticipate my Bondage, anil 
to render fuch an Aflfiiir not only impropable, but ini- 
poffible; and that therefore I ought not by any Means 
to remove. 

However, I was fo enamour'd of this Place, that 1 

rpent much of my Time there for the whole remaining 

Part of the Month of yah ; and iho' upon fecon* 

• Thou^f 

Hosr^dbyGoO'. IC 



( 97) 

TLouglitsI reliilv'd asabove, notto remove,. yetlbuUf 
ni; a licde kind of a Bower, and lurrounded it at a 
IJiftance wtih a ftrong Fence, being a double Hedge, 
as high as 1 could reacli, well ftak'd and fiU'd between 
with BrujhtBicd ; and here 1 lay very ieciire, ibmsEini::* 
two or three Nights together, always going over it witii 
a Ladder, as before ; lb that J taficy'd how I bad my 
Country-Houfe, and my Sea-Coaft-Houle : And this 
'Work took me up to the Beginning a';' A^^ud- 

I had but newly finilli'd m> Fence, and began to en- 
joy my Labour, but the Rains came on, and m^de me 
(lick clole to my firft Habitation ; for tho' 1 had made 
iiie aTentlike the other, (vith aPiece ofaiail, and fpread 
it very well ; yet I bad not tlie Shelter ofa Hill to keep 
me from Storms, nor a Cave behind me to retreat into, 
when the Rains were estraordinary. 

About the Beginning of ^u^ay? ay //a;;?, I bad finifli'i 
my Bower, and began to enjoy my ielt^ The third of 
Augujl, 1 found the Grapes I had hung up were pcrledHy 
dry'd, and indeed, were excellenl good Raitins of the 
Sun; fo I began to take them down from the Trees, 
and it was very happy that [ did fo ; tor the Rains 
■which followed would have Ipoil'd them, and I had lort 
the bed: Part of my Winter Food ; for I had above 
two hundred large Bunc jes of iliem. No Iboner had I 
taken them all down and carry'd moft of them Home 
to my Cave, hut it began to rain ; and from thence, 
which was the fourteenth of A:i;iiifl, it rain'd move or 
lefs every Day, till the middle of Olivber-, and fome- 
timesfo violently, that I could not flir out of my Cave 
tor feveral Days, 

In this Sealbn f was much furpriz'd with the Tn- 
ereare of my Family : I had been concem'd for the Lois 
of one of \ny Cats, who run away from me, or as I 
thought had been dead, and I heard no more Ta!e or 
Tidingsof her, tillto my Aftonifiiment ihe came home 
about the End of A?"#. with three Kittsns. This 
was the more ftrange to me, becaufe tho' I had kill'd 
a wild Cat, as I call'd it, with my Gun ; yet I thought 
it was a quite different Kind from our fiarjwan Cars ; ■ 
yet the y oung Cats were the fame kind of Houfe- breed 
liire the old one ; and both my Cats being Females, I 
F thoufiht 

^ """.Google 



( S8 ) 

i^liouglit It very ftrange ; But from thefe tbre^ Cats, I 
. iicervvards cmne to be lb pdler'd with Cats, that I svas 
^^orced to kill them hkc Vermijij or wild Beads, and to 
■drive them from my Houlc as much as poiUblc. 
■ From the fourteenth of Ju^ufl to the twenty fijtch, 
inceffant Kair, fo that I could not ftir, and was now ve- 
J-y careful not to bs much wet. In this Confinement 
1 began to be ftraitned for Food, but venturing out 
tivice, I one Day kill'd a Goat; and the laft Day, wbicli 
was the twenty-iixth found a very large Tortoile whieh 
was a Treat to me, and my Foud was regulated thus : 
1 eat a Bunch oi Raiilns lor my Breakfaft, n Piece of 
the Goat's Flefli, or of the 'i'ur[le, for my Dinner 
broil'd j (Tor to my great Misfortune, I had no VeiFel 
to hcil or (lew any thing} and two or three of the Tur- 
tle's Eggs tor iny Supper. 

Duringthis Confinement in my Cover by the Rain, 
1 work'J daily two or three Hours at enlarging my 
Cave, and \iy Degrees work'd it on towards one Side, 
till I came to the Outfide of theHill, and made a Door 
or Way out, which came beyond my Fence orWal!, 
end fo I came in and out this Way : But I was not per- 
ftSly eafy at lying fo open ; for as I had manag'd my- 
felf before, 1 was in a perfeft Enclofure, whereas now 
I thought I lay expos'd, and yet I could not perceive 
that there was any living thing to fear, the biggeil 
Creature that I had yet feeii upon tlie Jfiand being a 
Goat. 

Ssftember the thirtieth, I was now come to the un- 
happy Anniverfary of my Landing. I caft tip the Not- 
ches on my Poft, and found [ had been on Shore three 
hundred and fi sty five Days. I kept this Day as a (b- 
lemn fall, letting it apart to Religious Etercife, pro- 
ftrating my (elf on the Ground with the moft ferious 
Humiliation, conlefling my Sins to God, acknowledg- 
nig his Righteous judgments upon me, and praying to 
him to have Mercy on me, thro' Jefus Chrift ; and 
having not tafhd the leaft Rcfrefliment for twelve 
Hours, 'even till the going down of the Sun, I then eat 
■ Bisket-Cake, and a Bunch of Grapes, and went to Bed, 
iiuifliinH; the Day as I began it. 

1 had all this lime obferv'd no Sabbath-Day ; for 



;:|,e 



(99 ) 

asatfii-filhadnoSenieof llcligionttponmj'MincI, andl 
bad alter Ibme time omitted to diftinsjuilh the V\ceks, 
fey making a longer Notcli tJian ordinary i'or the ;ab. 
bath-Day, and lb did not really know ivliat any cf the 
Days were j but now having cail up tlie Dajs, as above^ 
I found I had been there a If ear j ft> I divided it int«i 
Weeks, and let apart every f^'venth Day for a Sabbath ; 
tho' I tbund at tbc End of my Account I had loft a Day 
or two in my K-eckoning. 

A little aker this my Ink began to fail me, and fo ( 
contented my lelt'to uls it more ipariiigly, and to write 
down only the moft remarkable Events ofmy Life, with- 
out cgncinuing a daily iVkfniir<iudum oi other Things. 

The rainy aeafon, ajid the dry Seafon be^an now to 
appear regular to me, afld I learnt to divide them lb, 
as to provide for them acL-ordingly. Bat 1 bi,W£[lit all 
Miy Experience before I had it ; and tliis I am going 
to relate, was one of the moil difcouriging Eij'eri- 
tiicnts that I made at all. I have mention'd that I had 
lav'd the lew Ears of Barley and Rice which 1 bad Jo 
JUrpriiingly found fprlng up, as I thought, of them- 
selves, and believe there were about thirty Stalks of 
Rice and about twenty of Barly ; and now I thwJght it 
a proper time to low it after the Rains, the Sun being in 
its Si/utbiTii Poiition going from rue. 

Accordingly I dug up a Piece of Groand, as well as 
I could with my wooden Spade, and dividing it into 
two Parts, I Ibw'd my Grain ; but as I was lowing, 
it cafually occur'd to my Thougbts, that I would not 
low it all at firrt, becaule I did not know when was 
the proper time for it ; lb I fow'd about two thirds 
of the Seed, leaving about a Handful of each. 

It was a great CoHifbrt to me afterwards, tbat I did 
fo, for not one Grain of tbat I fow'd this time came to 
any thing ; for the dry Mcnlbs following, the Earth ha- 
ving had no Rain after the Seed was fown, it had no 
Moiftureto affift its Growth, aad never came up at all, 
till the wet Seafon liad come again, and then it grew as 
if it had been but newly fown. 

finding my firft Seed did rot grow, which I eafily 

ifflagin'd was by the Drought, I tbuglit for a moifter 

Piece of Ground to make another Trial in, and I dug 

V 2 up 



y, QOO^^'^ 



( 100 ) 

up a Pitce of Ground near my new Bower, and fow'd 
tlie reil of my Seed in Febraify, a little before the Ver- 
nal Equinox ; and this having tlie rainy Months q[' March 
and Jpril to water it, Ipi-ung up very pleafantly, and 
yielded a very goud Crop ; but ha.ving Part of the Seed 
kit only) and not daring to Tow all that I had yet, I 
had but a fmall Quantity at laft, my whole Crop not 
amounting to above halt a Peck of each kind. 

But by this Experiment I was made Mafter of my 
EulinelS) and knew esaftly when the proper Seafon was 
to low ; and that I might espeift two Sced-limeSj and 
two Harveils every Vear. 

Whib this Corn was growing, I made a little Difco- 
vcry, which was of Ule to ms afterwards; As foon as 
the Rains were over, and the Weather began to fettle, 
ivhicli was about the Month of November, I made a 
Vilit up the Country to my Cower, where tho' I had 
not been fume Months, yet 1 found all things juft as I 
left tliem, Tlie Circle or double Hedge that I had 
made, was not only firm and entire, but the Stakes 
wliich I had cut off of fomcTrees that grew thereabouts, 
■were all Jhot out, and grown with long Branches, as 
much as a Willow. Tree ufually ihoots the firft Year af- 
ter lopping its Head. I could not tell what Tree to 
call it, that thtfe Stakes were cut from. I was ftir- 

ii'd, and jet very well pleas'd, to fee the young 

ees grow ; and I prun'd them, and led them up to 
grow as much alike as 1 could, and it is Icarce credible 
ho(v Iteautifiil a Figure they grew into in three Years ; 
to that tho' the Hedge made a Circle of about twenty 
Jive Yards in Diameter, yet the Trees, for iiich I might 
row call them, focn cover'd it ; and it was a compleat 
Shade, fiifficient to lodge under all the dry Seafon. 

This made me refolve to cut fome more Stakes, and 
make me a Hedge hke this in 3 Semicircle round my 
Wall, I mean that of my firft Dwelling, which I did ; 
and placing the Trees or Stakes in a double Row, 
at about eight Yards diftance from my firfl Fence, they 
grew prefcntly, ar.d were at firft a fine Cover to my 
Habitation, and afterward [erv'd for a Dcfciice alfo, as 
I fcall oblerve in its Order. 



..GooqIc 



?' 



f' 



(lOl) 

I found now, tliat the Seafons oftlis Year might fje- 
fierally be divided, not intu Summer and ii'intn, ss in 
EaMpe ; but into the rain)' Seslbns, and the dry Seafons, 
which were generally thus: 

^'^^^iTrlj'l- R^"'r.tHe i-^^ being (hen on, or i^ar 
Half^MS thef5,»«x. 



Rain, the ^hm being then coins ba.k. 




Dry, the Sun being then to the 
Smtb of the Line. 



The rainy Seafon fonietlmcs held longer or fliorter, 
as the Winds happen'd to blow j but this was the ge- 
neral Oblervation 1 made. After 1 bad found, by Ex- 
perience, the ill Confequence of being abroad in the 
Rain, I took Care to furniih my felf ivitn Provifions be- 
fore-hand, that I might not be ohlig'd to go out ; and 
1 fat within Doors as much .is polfible during the wet 
Months. 

In this Time I iound much Employment, f and very 
fuitable alfo to the TimeJ for I ibund great Occafion 
of many things which I had no way to furnifh my 
ielfwith, but by hari Labour and conftant Applica- 
tion ; particularly, I tried many Ways to make my felf 
a Basket, but all the I'wigs I could get for the Puipo[b 
prov'd fo brittle, that they wouhf do nothing. .It 

frbv'd of excellent Advantage to me now, that when 
was a Boy, I ufed to take great Delight in (landing ac 
F 3 • 



.vGooj^Ie 



(102) 

a Saihef-maUr's in the Town where my Father li/'t!,li> 
iL-c them make their lf%ker-rvare ; and being, as Boys 
ufaally are, very offidous to help, and a great Ob- 
ttrver of the Manner how they work'd thole things, 
and ibmciimes lending a Hand, I had hy this means 
tiiil Knowledge of the Methods of it, that Fwanted no- 
thing but the Materials; when ic came into my Mind, 
tnat the Twigs of that Tree from whence i cut my 
Stakes that grew, might poiTibly be as tough as the 
SaUinSt and inUiWi, and Ofiers in Eiigland, and 1 re- 
foiv'd to try. 

Accordingly the next Day I went to my Couiitry- 
Houfe, as 1 call'd it, and cutting fome of the Imaller 
Twigs, [ found them to my Purpofe as much as I could 
dedrc; whereupon I came the next time prepar'd with 
a Hatchet to cut down a Quantity, which I fnon found, 
lor there was g.reat Plenty of them: Tlicfe 1 let up to 
dry within my Circle or Hedge, and when they were 
iit lor Ufe, 1 carried them to my Cave ; and here dur- 
ing the next Seaibn, I eniploy'd my I'elf in making, at 
veli as I CMlii, a great many Baskets, both to carry 
IiaHh, or to carry or lay up any thing as I had occafion; 
«nd tlw' i did not flnifli them very handfoiueSy, yet I 
Mwde them fuiScienily ferviceable for my Purpofe ; and 
thus afterwards I took Care never to be without them ; 
and as my Wichr-v^are decay'd, I made more, efpecj ally 
I made ftrorg deep Baskets to place my Corn in, in- 
ftead of Sacks, when I Ihould come to have any Quajt- 
tity of it. 

Having mafter'd this Difficulty, and employ'd a, 
world oi Tiroeahout it, I beftirr'd myfelftotee, if pof' 
fible, how to fupply two Wants. I had no VeiTels to. 
bold any thing that was Liquid, except two Runlets 
which were almoft fiilj of Rum, and fume Glals Bottles, 
fome of the common Siae, and others which were Cafe- 
Bottles fquare, for the holding of Waters, Spirits, iSc. 
J had not fomu,;hasa Pot to boilany thing in, except a 
great Kettle which I fav'd out o! the Ship, and whicli 
was too big for fuch Ufesas I defir'd it (or, fif. to make 
Broth, and flew a Bit of Meat by it felf. The fecond 
THng I would fain have had, was a Tabacco-PIpe j but 



y.Goooli: 



'^'^' 



('03) 

it was impoflible to nie to makt; one ; however I fbiinti 
a Contrivance tor that loo at iall. 

1 emploj-'d my IcU'in planting my fecond Rows of 
Stakes or I'iles, and in dih Wider working a!l die Sum- 
mer, or dry Scalbn, when another Bulinels took me up 
more Time than it could bs imaigin'd I could ipare. 

I mentioned l>et«re, tliat ] had a great Mind to lee 
the whole llland, and th.it I Jiad travelled up the Brook, 
and i'o on to where I bui It vny Bower, and where I had 
an Openirg quite to the Sea on the other Side of the 
Idard. I noiv refjlved to travel quite crofs to the Sea- 
iliore on that Side : So taking my Gun, a Hatchet, and. 
niy Ddg, and a larger Qjianti ty of f owder and Shot than 
u.'iial, with t^vo biskpt- Cakes, and a great Bunch of 
Raiiins in my I'ouch for my Store, I began my Jour- 
ney. When I had paM the Vak where my Bower 
ftood, as alwve, I came within View at' llie Sea, to the 
tfe/?, and it being a very clear Day, I fairly defjricd 
Land, whether an Iflind or a Continent, I could not 
tell ; but it lay very bigli, extending from the if'ej) to 
the W, S. W, at a very great Diftance; by my Gu^is il 
could not be lefs than fiiteen or twenty Leagues off. 

I could not tell what Part of the World this might 
be> otherwise than that I knew it iiiuft be Fart of Atn^- y-, 
rica-f and as I cijn;lHded by all my Obfervations, mun:ij«"' 
be near the SfOiiiJh Dominions, and perhaps was all in- ^ A 
habited by Savages, where if I fhould have landed, J ^ 
liad been in a worle Condition than f was now ; and 
tberefbre I aciiuicfceil m the Difpofitions of Providence, 
which I began now to own, and to believe, order'd eee- 
ry thirgforthebeft; I fay, 1 quieted my Mind wirli 
this, ajid left affiiiting my fell' with iruithlels Wiihcs 
of being there, 

Belldes, after fome Paufe upon this AfTjir, I conii- 
der'd, that if this Land was the Spanrjh Coaft, 1 Ihould 
certainly, one Time or other, fee fome VciTel pafs or 
re.pafs one Way or other j but if not, then it was the 
Sav^i Coaft hetwecn the ^anijh Country and Bra/ils, 
■which were indeed the word ofiiii'agsf; for they ars 
Canmtals, (w Men-Eaiers, and fail not to muither and 
devour aU the hiuiian Bodies that fall into taeir Hands, r 

■; " ' ■£+ With' 

Ho.r-d by Google 



( '°4 ) 

With tiiere Coniiderations I walk'd very Icifarelj- 
forward. I found that Side of the Ifland where 1 now 
was, much pleafanter than mire, tlieopen or Savanna 
fields Ineet, adornd with Flowers and Grafs, and lull 
ot very tine Woods. 1 law Abundance of Parrots, and 
tain 1 would have ought one, il poflible, to have kept 
it Co be tame, and taught it to fpeak to me. I did, af- 
Ur lome Pains taking, cateh a young Parrot, fbr I 
knock'd it down with a Stick, and having reeover'd it, 
1 brought it home; but it was fome Years before I 
could make liim fpeak ; However, at laft I taught him 
to call me by my Name very familiarly: Bufthe Ac- 
cident that tbllow'd, tho' it be a Trifle, will be very 
diverting in its Place, 

I was enceedingly diverted with this Journey : I 
found in the low Grounds, Hares, as I thought them 
to be, and Foxes, but (hey differ'd greatly from all the 
other Kinds I liad met ivith; nor could I fatisfy my fclf 
to cat them, tho' 1 kill'd fevera! : But I had no need to 
be venturous ; for I had no Want of Food, and oi' that 
whkb was very good too ; efpecially thefe three Sorts, 
viz- Goats, Pidgeons, and 1 urtle orTortoiie; which, 
added to my Cirapes, Leaden-HaU Market could not 
have t'urnilh'd a Table better than I, in Proportion to 
the Compare" ; and tho' my Cafe was deplorable enough, 
yet 1 had gieat Caulb for Thanktulnefs, that I v»as not 
driven to any Extremities for Food ; but rather Plenty, 
tven to DaiBties. 

I never travelled in this Journey above two Miles 
outright in a Day, or thereabouts ; but I took fo many 
Turns and Returns tu lee what Difcoveries I could 
make, that I came wea^y enough to the Place where 
I refolv'd to fit down for all Night ; and then I either 
repos'd my lelf in a Tree, or fur^ounded my fclf with 
a Row of Stakes fet upright in the Ground, either from 
one Tree to another, or lb as no wild Creature could 
come at me, without waking me. 

As foon as I came to the 5ea-Shore, I was furprizcd 
to fee that I had taken up my Lot on the wcrft Side of 
the 1 Hand ; for here indeed the Shore was cover'd with 
innumerable Titrtles, whereas on the other Side \ had 
Jound but three in a Year and half. Here was alfo an 
ipfinite 



,Go 



-'sK" 



(•°j) 



infinite NumVr of Fowls of many Kinds, fonie of which 
] had not fesn before, and many ot tliein very good 
Meat i but I'lich as I knew not the Names oi\ except 
thofe caird Penguins. 

I could have Jhot as many as I pleafed, hut was very 
fparino of my Powder and Shot; and therefore had 
more Mind to kill a She-Goat, if I could, which I 
could better feed on : And tho' there were many Goats 
here more than on the other Side the Ifland, yet it was 
with mucb more Difficulty that I coiiid come near 
them, the Country being flat and even, and they law 
me much fooner than \vhen I was on the Hills. 

I confefs this Side of the Country was much plea- 
fanter than liiine, but yet I had not the lead IncHnatinn 
to remove; for as I was fixed in my Habitation, it be- 
came natural to me, and I feein'd all the while i was 
here, to be as it were upon a Journey, and irom Home: 
However, I travell'd along the Shore of the Sea, to- 
wards the Eafl, I luppofe about twelve Miles; and then 
letting up a great Pole upon the Shore for a Mark, I 
concluded I would go Home again ; and that the next 
journej'l took, ihould be on theotherSideof the Iflsnd, 
Eafi troiti aiy Dwellirg, and fo round, till I canie to my 
Poft again. Of which in its Place. 

I took anothar Way to come back than that I went, 
thinking I could eafily keep all the liland fo much in 
my View, that i could not mift finding my firft Dwel- 
ling by viewing the Country ; but I found my felf mi'f- 
taken ; for being come about two or three Miles, I found 
myfelf defcendcd into a very large Valley; but fo fur- 
rounded with Hills, and thofe Hills covered with 
Woods, that I could not fee which was my Way by any 
Diredion but that of the Suti, nor even then, unlefs I 
knew very well the Fofition of the Sun at that Time oi 
the Day. 

It happen'd, to my farther Misfortune, that tho 
Weather prov'd hazey for three or fcur Days, while I 
was in this Valley; and not being able to fee the Sun, I 
Wander'd about very uncomfortably, and at lail waj 
obliged to find out the Sea-Side, look for my Poft, and 
come back the fame Way I went ; and then by eafy 
Journeys I tum'd homeward, the Wtath«r bring ex- 
F 5 cecding 



.;, Google 



( '°« ) 

ceeiiing hot, and my Gun, Ammunition, Hatchet, ifii 
other Things very heavy. 

In this JouriLfy my EJog furpriz'd a young Kid, and 
fc'iz'd upon it, and I running in to take bold of it, 
c.iught it, and I'av'd it alive from the Dog,; I had a 
great Mind to bring it home ; if I could ■, tor I had often- 
hcen mufing, whether it miglit not be pofllble to get 
a Kid or two, and Jo raife a Breed of tame Goats, which 
miglit fupply me when my Powder and Sliot faould be 
fj'ent. 

I made a Collar to this little Creature, and with a 
String ivhich I made of ibme Rope- Yarn which I al- 
ways carried about me, 1 led him along, tho' with fome 
Difficulty, till [ came to my Bower, and there I enclos'd 
him, and left him ; for I was very impati.'nt to be at 
Home, from whence ! had been ablent above a Month, 

I cannot exprefs what a Satisfa£iion it was to me, to- 
come into my old Hutch, and lie down in my Ham- 
mock-Bed.- ThisHttle wandring Journey, without iet- 
tled Place of Abode, had heen lb unplealant to oie, that 
my own Houfe, as I call'd it to my lelf, -was a perfeft 
Settlement to me, compar'd to that; and it render'd 
every thing about me fo comfortable, that I refolv'd I 
would never go a Rreat Way from it again, while it 
fllould bemy Lot to (lay on the Ifiand. 

I repos'd my felf here a Week, to reft and regale mjt 
felf after my long Jatirney ; during which, moft of the 
Time was taken up in the weighty Affair of making a 
Cage for my PcH, who bigsn now to be a meer Do- 
Mieilick, and to be mighty well acquainted with me. 
Then I began to thiTik off the poor Rid, which I had 
pent in within my little Circle, and refolv'd to go and 
fetch it Home, or give it fome Food ; accordingly I 
Ivent, and found it where I left it; for indeed it could 
not get out, but was almoft ftarv'd for want of Food i 
f went and cut Boughs of Trees, and Branches of fucb 
Shrubs as I Could find, and threw it over, and having, 
ted it, I ty'd it as I did before, to lead it away ; but is 
was fo tame with, beiiightmgry, that I bad no need to 
have t)''d it ; for it follow'd me Kke a Dog ; ami as I 
continually fed it, theCi*ature became fo loving, fo^ 
^Dtle^ and fo fond, that it became fiondiat time pn» 

I Google 



( '07 J 

of i(iy Domdjkks alfo, and would neVer leave tne af- 

The rainy Seafon of the Autamal Eijuinox was now 
ccme, and J kept ilie joth oi'Sej'lemkr in the lame lo- 
lemn manner as before, Ijeiog the Anniverfary ol' my 
Landing on the Idandj having now been there two- 
Years, and no more Pro fpeft ol being deliver'd than the 
firft Day I cams there. I Ipent the whole Day in hum- 
ble and tlianklUl Acknowledgments of" the many won-- 
dcrliil Mercies which my Ibtitary C.mdition was attend- 
ed with, and without which it might have bicn infinite- 
ly more mirerahle. I gave humble aiid hearty Thanks- 
tliat God had been pleaied to difcover to me, even that 
it was poffible 1 might be move happy in this folitary 
Condition, than I ihould have been in a Liberty of 
Society, and in all the Plealurqs of the World. I'hat- 
He could iiilly nuke up to me the Deficicnces of my 
Iblitary State, and the wane of Huoian J^'oeiety, by his 
Prefence, and the Communication of his Gi-ace to my 
Soul, fiipporting, comtprUng, and cnoouiaging, me ton 
depend upon his Providence herSj and hope for his 
Eternal Prefence hereafter. 

It was now tl>at I began fenfibly to feel how much 
Hlore happy t!ie Life I now led was, with all its mifera- 
We Circuiiiftances, than the vrieked, curfed abominabltt 
Lite I led all the pall. Part of my , Days j andnowhav;- 
Jng changed both- my Stfrrows-frnd my Jojs-i .my -very 
DefireBaltor'd.iny.AffeaiofisGHanged their Gitfts^ and 
my DeligjitB were psrfe^y n*w, from ivhat llwy 
were at firft coming, or indeed fov tjw pwo Yeair* 
part. 

Before, as I walk-d about, eitlier on my Huntiii^ ot 
for viewing the Coiiitry, the Anguiihof my Soul st my 
ponditiwi would break out mwn oie on a fividen, and" 
lay very jfeprt would die within me, to thiflk-.of" th« 
^^■ood5, tlie. MountaJRE, the-P?fajis- 1 was.-in--, ^d Ijovr- 
1-wasa Prisoner lock 'd .i^ with tbc E^erwsl Ji»rs-wi- 
Boils oftlie Pccau,:in an uninhabited Vyildtfrnefe ivitb- 
GHt l^edepipl^B. lii themidft. of the.gicateltCojiipBr 
Wqs^ my Mindj tlus would bFCak out up"" me Uke-a' 
Stoi-aij and make rae wring my Hands, and weep like 
a. Child, Sometiuics it would (skc me ia the M-id^V^ 



.yGoogle 



( i°8 ) 

of my Work, and I would imiiwdiatelj' fit down ani 
iigli, and look upon the Ground for an Houror tivo to. 
gcthcr; and this w-sftill worle to tome ; IbrifJcould 
trtirll out into Tears, or vent my ielf by Words, it 
would go off, and the Grief having exhaufted it iell^ 
would abate. 

But now 1 began to exercife my felf with new- 
Thoughts ; I daily read the Word of God, and apply'd 
all the Comforts ot itto my prefent State. One Morn- 
ing Iwing very fad, I opened the Bible upon thefe Words, 
I will never, ntver leave fltee, mrforfaki thee ■, immedi- 
ately it occur'd, that thefe Words were to rue, why 
elle Ihould they be direfted in fuch a'-Manner, jtiftat 
the Moment when I was mourning over my Condition, 
as one forfaken of God and Man ? Well then, faid I, 
if God does not forfake me, of what ill Coniequence 
can it be, or what matters it, tho' the World Ihould 
all forfake me ; feeing on the other Hand, if I had all 
the World, and ftiouid lofe the Favour and BleflTing of 
God, there would !« no Comparifoii in tJie Lofs. 

From this Moment I began to conclude in my Mind, 
that it was poflible for me to be more happy in this for- 
faken, Iblitary Condition, than it was probable I fliould 
have Wer been in any other particularState in theWorld; 
and with this Thought I was going to give Thanks 
to God for bringing me to this I'lace. 

i know not what it was, but fomething fliock'd my 
Mind at thai Thoughfj and I durfl notfpeak theWords : 
How canft thou be luch an Hypociite (faid I, even audi- 
bly/ to pretend tote thanklul few a Condition, which 
however thou may'ft endeavour to- be contented with, 
thou wouldfl rather pray heartily to be delivered from ; 
lb 1 Hopt there : But tho' I could not fay, 1 thank'd God 
for being there ; yet 1 fincerely gave Thanks to God 
for- openit^g myEyes, by whatever afflicting Providences-, 
ro fee the former Condition of my Life, and to mourn 
fo» my Wickednefs, and repent. I never open'd the 
-Bible orlhut it, by my very Soul within me blefs'd God 
itK dlrciftiiig my Friend in Er^lsn/!, without any Or- 
der of mine, to pack it up among my Goods ; and for 
aOilling me afterwards tolkve it out of the Wreck uf 
the Ship, 

Thm 



.;, Google 



( '°9 ) 

Thus, and m tins Dirpofitionof Mind, I began my 
third Year ; and tho' I have not given the Reader the 
'I' rouble of lb particular an Account of my Works this 
Yearasthefirft ; yet in general it may be obferv'd, that 
I was very feldum idle; but having rejjularly divided 
my Time according to the feveral daily Employments 
that were before me ; fuch as, Firfl, my Duty to God, 
and the reading Sciiptures, which I conflantly fet apart 
fome time for, thrice every Day. Sicmaiy, The going 
Abroad with my Gun for Food, which generally took 
me up three Hours in every Morning, when it did not 
Rain. Thirdly, The ordering, curing, preferving and 
cooking what I had kill'd nr catch'd for my Supply ; 
ihefe look up great Part of the Day ; Alio it is to be 
confidered, that the Middle of the Day when the Sun 
was in the Zenith, the Violence of the Heat was too 
great to ftir out ; fo that alwut four Hours in the Eve- 
ning was all the time I could be fuppofed to ivork in ; 
with this Exception, that fonietinies I changed myHours 
of Hunting and Working, and went to Work in the 
Morning, and Abroad with my Gun in the After. 

To this rtiort time allow'd far Labour, I defire may 
be added the exceeding Laborioufnefs of niy Work, the 
nii.ny Hours which lor ivsnt of Tools, want of Help, 
and want of Skill, every thing I did, took up out of my 
Time : t'or Example, I was full two and forty Days 
making me a Board for a long Shelfi wliich I wanted in 
my Cave ; whereas two Sawyers with their Tools, and 
Saw-Pit, would have cut fix of them out oEthe fame 
Tree in half a Day. 

My Cafe was this ; it was to be a Urge Tree which 
was to be cut down, becaufc icy Board was to'be « 
broad one. This Tree I was three Days a cutting 
down, and two more cutting oflf the Boughs, and reduc- 
ing it to a Log, or Piece ot Timber. With inexpreffl- 
ble hacking and hewing I reduced both the Sides of it 
into Chips, till i( begun to be light enough to move; - 
tlicn I turn'd it, and made one Side of it I'mooth, and 
flat, as it Board from End to End ; then turning that 
fide downward, cut the other fide, till 1 brought the 
P1mU( to be about threclnches thick, andGiiootb on both 
Side*. 



Hosted by Google 



( no ) 

Sides- Any one may judge the Labour of my Handstn 
fuch a Piece of Work ; but Labour and Patience cany'd 
me thro' that, and many other things : 1 only obferve 
this in particular, lo Jliew the Real'on why lb mucli of 
mj Time went away with To little Work, vi^. that 
what might be a little to be done with Help and Tools, 
was avalt Labour, and requir'd a prodigious time to do 
alone, and hy Hand. 

But notwithftanding this, with Patience and Labour 
I went thro' many things, and indeed every thing that 
my Circumftinces made nccellary co me to do, as iviU 
appear by what follows. 

I was now in the Months of November and December, 
expecting my Crop of Barley and Rice. The Ground 
I had manur'd or dug up for them was not great ; tor 
as I obferv'd, my Seed of each was nut alrave the (juan- 
tity of hall a Peck ; for I had loft one whole Ciop by 
fowing in tlie dry Sealbn ; but now my Crop promis'd 
very well, when on a fiidden I found I was in Danger 
ci lofingit all again by Enemies of feveral Sorts, which 
it was fcaree polftble to keep from it ■, as firii, the Goats, 
and wild Creatures which I call'd Hares, who tailing 
the Sweetnefs o{ the Blade, lay in it Night and Day, 
as foon as it came- up, and eat it fo clofe, that it could 
get no time to ihoot up into Stalk. 

This 1 faw no Remedy for, but by making an Enclo- 
■ {lire about it with a Hedge, which 1 did ivitli a greae 
deal of Toil ; and the more, liecaufe it reijuii-'d a greag 
^eal of Speed j the Creatures daily fpoiiiijg my Corn. 
However, as my Arable Land was but finally lulled to 
my Crop, 1 got it totally well fenced in about three 
Weekstimej and ftiooting Ibme of the Creatures in the 
t)ay-time, I fet my .Dog to guard it in the Night, ty. 
ing hiiiiuptoa Stakeat the Gate, wherehe would llLind 
and barkatl Night long ) fo in a little time the Hnemies 
Jhrfuok the Place,, and the Corn grew very ilrong and. 
jyeU, and begsn to ripen apace. 
' But as-tlie &pa&& ruined me before, while my Corn 
waj in the 'Blade, fo the Birds were as likely to ruin 
me now, when it wWs te the Ear ; for goijig, along hf 
the Place to fee how tt:throve, I faw my little. Crop 
(iin:oiuided,wiU*;i'"ow!lJi;of j , jiflpw. '.not fcpw, -4m"i' 
5ort%., 



Hooted by Google 



( "I ) 

Sorts, who (looi as it were watching till llhoulil Be- 
gone. ! imn;etliately let fly among iheiii (lor I alw»)S 
had my Gun with iiiej I had no l^joner fliot, butthere 
lole up a little Cloiid of Fowls, wluch I had not feen 
at all, trcm among the Corn it felf. 

This touch'd me fenlibly, for I forcCtw, that in a 
iew Days they would devour all my Hypes, that I 
fliould beftarv'd, and never be able to raile a Crop^ 
at all, and whatto do I could rot tell : However,Ire- 
folv'd not to lole my Corn, if poffible, tho' I fliould 
watch it Night and Day, In the firft Place, I went a- 
mong it to Ice what Damage was already done, and 
found thsy had fpoil'd a good deal of it; i>ut that as ic 
was yet too green tor them, the lols ivas pot fo great, 
but that the remainder Wias like to be a good Crop if 
it could be Uv'd. 

I (laid by it to load my Gun, and then coming away 
I could eafily lee the Thieves fitting upon all the Trees 
about me, as if they only waited till I was gone away, 
and tli2 Event proved it to !>e fo ; for as I wslk'd off as. 
ifl was gone, I wasno iboner out of their Sight, but 
they dropt down one by one into the Corn agiin. I 
wasfo provok'd, that 1 could not ha v^ P atience to ftay 
till mere caiiie on, knowing '^'^^ £)i|$P>iiitiMil^ ^'^^^ 
eat now, was, ai it >w<[bt befar^^ 
in the Confcquen;e ; but coiiiinS 
fired again, and kill'd three oi'the 
wiih'd tor ; fo 1 took them up, and ferv'd 
fcrve notorious Thieves in England, ( vi^ ) Han„, 
them in Chains for a Terror to others. It is impoflililo 
to imagine alnioll, that this ihould have fuch an Effcft- 
as it had ; for the Fowls would not only not come at 
the Corn, butinlhort riiey forlbok alithat Part of the 
Illand, and I could never fee a Bird near the Place as^ 
long as my Scare-Croivs hung there. 

This I was very glad of, you may be furs' ; and about 
the latter End of December, which was our fecond Hau" 
»eft oftlie Year, I reaped my Crop. 

I was fadly put to it for a Scythe or a Sickle to cut- 
it down, and all I could do was no make one as welt 
as I couldout of oi-e of the hioad Swords or Cutlaffes, 
which Ifav'd amonfiChe ArmsoutofthcShip. How- 

Hosted by GOOgk' 




( -^ ) 

ever, as my firll Crop was buc fmall, I had no great 
DiiScuky to cue it;dowri : In ftort, I reap'd it my 
way, tor I cut nothing off but the Ears, and eairy'd ic 
away in a great Basket which I had made, and to vnbb'd 
it out with my Hands ; And at the End of all my Hat- 
vefting, I found that out of my half Peek of Seed, I had 
near two Buflielsof Rice, and above two Bufhels and a 
half of Barley, that is to faj^ by my Guefs, tor I had no 
Meaiure at that time. 

However, this was a great Encouragement to me ; 
and I fbrefaw that in time, it would pieale God to fup- 
yXy tne with Bread : Aud yet here I was perples'd a- 
gain, for I neither knew how to grind or make Meal of 
my Corn, or indeed how to clean it and part it ; nor 
if made into Meal, how to make Bread ot it ; and if 
bow to make it, yet I knew not how to bake it. Thele 
things being added to my Defire of having a good 
Quantity Ibr Store, and Co fecure a conftant Supply, I 
relolv'd not to tafteany of this Crop, but to prelerve it 
all fbr Seed againft the next Seafon, and in the mean time 
10 employ all my Study and Hours of working to ac- 
compliih this great Work of providing my fclf with Corn 

that now I work'd for my 
kuderful, and what I believe few 
jpcli upon, (w^.jthellrangeMu!- 
jfethin^ necellari in the l'ri.vidJng,Produc- 
CuringTDrcffing, Making and fiiiilhing this one 
Article of Bread. 

I that was reduced to a meer State of Nature, found 
this to be my daily Difccurageraent, and was made 
more and more fenfible of it every Hour, even alter 
I got the firil handful of Seed-Corr, which, as I 
have faid, came up unexpeAedly, and indeed to a Sur- 
prize. 

Flrfl, I had no Plow to turn up the Earth, no Spade 
or Shove) to dig it. Well this I coni[ucr'd, bj- making 
a wooden Spade, as I obferved before ■, but this did my 
Work butin a wooden Manner ; and tho' it coll me a 
great many Days Co make it, yet for want of Iron it not 
only wore out the foocer, hut made my Work the har- 
der, and madeic be perform'd aiuch worle. 

How. 




, Google 



( '13 ) 



However, this I bore with too, and wascontent to work 
it out with Patience, aad bear with the BadDel's of the 
Performance. When the Corn was tuw'd, I had no 
Harrow, but was ti)rce«i to go over it Hiy lelfianddraga 
great heavy Bough oik Tree over it, to I'eratcb the Earth 
as it may be called, ra\her than Rake or Hairow it. 

\^'hi;n it was growing and grown, 1 have obi'erv'd al- 
ready how many things t wanted, to fence it, fecurc it, 
mow or reap it, cure and (;arry it Home, thralh, part 
ittiomthe Chaff, and lave it. Then I wanted a Mill 
to grind it. Sieves to drels it, Yeail and bait to make it 
into bread, and an Oven to bake it ; and all theie 
things I did without, as fliall be olifervcd ; and yet 
the t,orn was an ineftimabk Comfort and Advantage to 
me too. But all 'this as I laid, made everything laborious 
and tedious to me, but that there was no Help lor ; nei- 
ther was my time lb much t.ols to iiie, bccaule.l had 
divided it, a certain Part ol it was every Day appoint- 
ed to thele Works; and as I refolv'd to ule none of the 
Coru tor Bread till 1 had a greater Quantity by me, I 
had the next fix Months to apply my leJf wholly by La- 
bour and Invention to furnilh my lelf with Utcnfils 
proper for the pevtcrming all the Operations neceffary 
for the making the Corn (when It'' 

But iirft, I was to prepare mor« 

Seed enough to low above an Ac' _. 

1 did this, I had a Week's Work at ieaftt 

Spade, which when it vras done, was but a forty o 
indeed, and very heavy, and requir'd double Labour to 
Work with ic ; however I went thro' that, and fow'd 
my Seed in two large flat Pieces of Ground, as near 
niy Houfe as I could hni them to my Mind, and tenc'd 
them in with a good Hedge, the -Stakes of which were 
all cut of that V\'ood which I had fct before, which [ 
knew would grow, fo that in one Year's time I knew I 
Jliould have a Qjiickor Living Hedge, that would want 
but little Repair. This work was not Co little as to 
take me up Icis than three Months, becaufe greatPart 
of that time was of the wet Sealbn, when 1 could not 
go abroad. 




>VithiD 

Hosted by Google 



( 114) 



WiiHn Door, ibal is, when it rained, and I coirl3 
notgoouc, I found Employ menir on th» following Oc- 
calions, alwajs obferving. tliac all the while J was at 
Work, I diverted my felJ' with talking to my Parrot, 
and teaching, him to Speak ; and I quickl/ learned hirti 
to know his own Name, and at lail to fpeak it out 
pretty loud, POLL, which was the firfi Word i ever 
htard fpokenin the Ifland by any Mouth but my own. 
This therefore was not my Work, but an AffilUnt to 
my Work ■, for now, as I faid, I had a great Employment 
upon my Han8sj as tbilows, (vi^.) I had long ftudy'd, by 
fome Means or other, to make my ielt' ibm; EarthenVel- 
frls, which indeed I wanted foreiy, but knew not where 
to come at them: However, confideringtheHeat of the 
Climate, I did not doubt but if I could find out any 
fu;b Clay, I might botch, up fome fuch Pot, as might, 
being dry'd it. the Sun, be hard enougb, and ftrong 
enough to bear handling, and to hold any Thing that 
was dry, and required to be kept fo ; and as this was 
aeceilary in the preparing Corn, Meal, £?c. whidi was 
the Thing I was upon, I refolved to malje fame as large 
as I could, and fit only to (land like Jars to Iwld what 
fhould be put into them, 

^le Reader pity me, or ratlier Jaugb 
... . _ .(MUiy aukvvard Ways I took toraife 
■■ il4iat, awmiihapen ugly Things I made, 
"■ >f liwmififll in, and bow many tell out, the 
|pg ftiff enough to beat its own Weight j. 
Tiow many crack'd by the over violent Heat of the Sun^ 
bdng letouttoo hsfiily; and bow njany fell in Piece* 
with only removing, .as well before »s after they were 
dry'd; and in a Word, how after having laboured hard 
to ftnd the Clay, txi dig it, to temper it, to bring ic 
home and work it, I could not make alwve two larg* 
Earthen ugly things, I cannot call them Jars, in aboitf. 
two Months Labour. 

However, as the Sun baked thefe two very dry and, 
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and let them down 
again in two great Wicker-Baskets, which! had made 
©n purpofefor them, that they might rot Iireak ; and, 
as between ihc Pot and the Basket there was j little 




i by Google 



( I'S ) 

roomtofpare, I ftuJF'd it fiill of the Rice and Bartej* 
Straw, and theie two Pots being to (land alvvajs dry, I 
thought would hold my dry Com, and perhaps cli» 
Meal when the Corn was bruiM- 
lho'I mifcarried fo nmrfi in my Delign for large 
PtitSj yet 1 made feveral Imaller things with better Sue. 
cefs ; fu^h as little round Pots, flat DiitcE, 1 itchers, 
and Pipkins, and any thing my Hand turn'd to, and 
tlie HeatoKthe Sun bak'd them ftranp.ely hard. 

But all this would not anfwer my End, which was 
to get an Earthen Pot to hold what was Liquid, and 
bear the Fire, which none ot thefe could do. It hap 
pen'd after Ibme time, making a pretty large Fire ibr 
cooking my Meat, when I went to put it out after I 
had done with it, I found a broken Fiete of one of my 
Eartlien-ware VelTcls in the Fire, burnt as hard as a 
Stone, and red as a Tile. I was agreeably furpriz'd to 
fee it, and laid to my felF, that certainly they mighc 
be made to burn whole, if they would burn hto- 

This fet ine to ftudj'Jng how Eo order my Fire, Co as 
to make it burn me Tome Pots, i had nn Notion of a 
'Kiln, fuch as the Potters burn in, or of glazing them 
with Lead, tho' 1 had fome Lead to doit with ; but I 
plac'd three large Pipkins, and two or three Pots in a 
Pile one upon another, and plac'd my Fire-wood all 
round it with a great Heap of Embers utider them ; 
1 ply'd the Fire with frelh Fuel round the Outfide, and 
upon the Top, till I faw the Pots in the Infide i-ed hot 
quite thro", and ohferyed that they did not crack at all ; 
when I (aw them clear red, I let tliem (land in that 
Heat about ^ or 6 Hours, till I found one oi' them, tho' 
it did not crack, did melt or ran, for the Sand which 
was mix'd with the Claj' melted by the Violence oi the 
Heat, and would have run into Glal> if I had gone on j 
fo I (lack'd my Fire gradually, til! tlie Pots began to a- 
bate of the red Colour, and watching them all Night, 
that I nfight not letthe Fire abate to fall, in the Morn- 
'iig I had three very good, I will not fay handlbme Pip- 
kins, and twogther Eartllen Pots, as hard burnt as. 
could be delir'd ; and one of thetii pertcftly glai'd 
wuh the Running of the Sand. 

And 



.;, Google 



(iiO 

After this Experiment, I need not fay tliat I wanted 
no fort of Earthen Ware for my Ule; but I muft needs 
fay, as to the Shapes of them, ihey were very indiffe- 
rent, as any one may fuppofe, when I bad no Way of 
making them, hut as the Children make Dirt-Pies, or as 
a Woman would make Pies that never learnt to raife 
Parte. 

No Joy at a Thing of !o mean a Nature was ever 
equal to mine, when [ found I had made an Earthen 
Pot that would bear the Fiie ; and I bad hardly Pa- 
tience to Hay tili they were cold, before I fet one upon 
the Fire again, with fome Water in it, to boil me fome 
Meat, which 1 did admirably well; and with a-Piece 
of a Kid I made fome very good Broth, tlio' I wanted 
Oatmeal, and feverai other Ingredients requifite to make 
it fo good as I would have had it been. 

My next Concern was, to get me 3 Stone-Mortar 
to ftamp or beat fome Corn in ; for as to the Mill, there 
was no Thought at arriving to that Perfeftion of Art, 
with one Pair of Hands. To fupply this Want I was 
at a great Lofs ; forof all Trades in the World [ was as 
perfeftly unqualified for a Stone-Cutter, as fur any 
whatever ; neither had I any Tools to go about it with. " 
I Ipent many a Day to find out a great Stone big enough 
to cut hollow, and make fie for a Mortar, and couid 
find noiie at ail, eioept what was in the folid Rock, and 
which I liad no Way to dig or cut out; nor indeed 
were the Rocks in the Wand ofHardnefs fufficient, but 
were all of a fandy crumbling Stone, which would nei- 
ther bear the Weight of a heavy Peille, or would break 
the Corn without filling it v/ith Sand : So after a gi-eat 
deal of Time loll in fearcHng for a Stone, I gave it 
over, and refolv'd too look out a great Block of hard 
Wood, (vhich I- found indeed much eafier ; and getting 
one as big as I had Strength to ftir, [ rounded it, and 
form'd it on the Outiide with my Axe and Hatchet, and 
then with the Help of Fire and infinite Labour, mide 
a hollow Place in it, as the Indians in Brafil make their 
Cartws. After this, I made a great heavy Pefije or 
Beater, of the Wood call'd the Iron-Wood, and this t 
prepared and laid by againfl I had my next Crop of 
Corn, 



..Google 



( "7 ) 

C<irn, when I propos'd to my Tell' to grind, or ratTier 
pound my Corn into Meal to make my Bread. 

My nejt Difficulty was to make a Sieve, or Searfe, to 
drefs my Meal, and to part it horn the Bran and the 
Hask, without which I did not ice it pofTible I could 
have any Bread, This was a moil difficult Thing, ib 
much as but to think on ; for to be Ture I had notliing 
hke thcneceflary Thing to makeit with; I mean fine 
thill Canvas, or Stuff to fearch the Meal through. And 
here I was at a full Stop for many Months ; nor did I 
really know what to do; Linnen I had none left, but 
what was meer Rags ; I had Goats Hair, hut neither 
knew I how to weave it or fpin it; and had I known 
how, here was no Tools to' work it with; all the Re- 
medy that I found for this, was. That at laft I did re- 
member I had among the Seamens Cloaths which were 
fav'd out of the Ship, IbmeNeckcloaths of Callicoe or 
Mufiin; and with fome Pieces of thefe I made three 
fmall Sieves, but proper enough for the Work; and thus 
I made iliift for fome Years; how I did aftenvards, I 
flialliliew in its Place. 

The baking Part was the next thing to be confidei'd, 
ancfntov I Ihould make Bread when I cams to have 
Corn ; for firft I had no Yeaft : As to that Part, as 
there ,w5s no fuppljing the Want, fo I did not concern 
niyfelf much about it: But for an Oven, I was indeed 
in great Pain. At length I found out an Experiment 
for that alio, which was this ; 1 made fome Earthen 
VelTels very broad, but net deep ; that is to fay, about 
two Foot Diameter, and not above nine [nches deep; 
th'.'fe I burnt in the Fire, as 1 had done the other, and 
laid them by; and when 1 wanted to bake, I made a 
great Fire upon my Hear-th, which I had pav'd with 
Ibnie fquare Tiles of my own making and burning alfo ; 
but I Ihoitld not call thorn fquare. 

When the Fire-wood was burnt pretty much into 
Embers, or live Coals, I drew them forward upon this 
Hearth, Ib as to cover it all over, and there 1 let them 
lye, till the Hearth was very hot ; then fweeping away 
all the Embers, I fet down my Loaf, or Loaves, and 
"helming down the Earthen Pot upo"n them, drew the 
^tubers all round the Outitde of the Pot, to keep in, 
and 



.;, Google 



(ii8) 

andadd to theHeat ; and thus, as wet] at in tlie liefl 
Oven in the World, I bak'd my Barley -Loaves, and be- 
came in little time a meer PaftryCook into thc-Eai- 
gahi ; for I made my itli' feveral Cakes of the Kice, and 
I'uddings ; indeed I made no Ties, neither had I any 
thing to put into them, liippoling ) had, except the 
Flelh either of Fowls or Goats. 

It need not be wondered at, it all thefe things took 
(tie up moft Part ot the third Year of my Aboad here ; 
for it is to bsobfeiv'd, that in the Intervals of there 
Things, I bad my new Harveft and Husbandry to ma- 
nage ; for I reap'd my Corn in its Seal'on, and carried id 
Home as well as I could, and laid it up in the Ear; in 
my large Baskets, ti!l I bad Time to rut it out; for I 
had no Floor to thralli it on, or Inftrument to thralh it 
with. 

And now indeed my Stock of Corn encreafing, I 
really wanted to build my Barns bigger: I wanted a 
Place to lay it up in; tor the IncreaCe of the Corn now 
yielded me fo much, that I had of the Barley about 
twenty Bufhels, and of the Rice as much, or more ; in- 
fonnich, that now I refolved to begin to ufe itf&jielj', 
for my Bread had been quite gone a great \\hi\e£^' • 
refotved to lee what Quantity would be fuffi JBl 
me a whole Year, and to fow but once a Year. ^Tfc 

Open the whole, I found that the forty Buffieis of , 
Bafl'ey and Rice wss much more than I could confume 
in a Year ; fo I refotved to low jaft the tame Quantity I 
every Year tliat I fow'd the laft, iji hopes that fuch a I 
Quantity would fully provide nie with Bread, £?c. 

All the while thele things were doing, you may be 
Jiire my Thoughts run many times upon tlie Profpeft of 
Land which I had feen from the other Side of the 
Ifland, and I was not without fecrct Wiihes that I was 
on Shore there, fancying that feeing the main Land, and 
an inhatiited Countrv, t might find fome Way or other 
to convey my lelf farther, and peihaps at taft iindlbnis 
Means of Elcape, 

But all this while I made no Allowance for the Dan- 
gers of fuch a Condition, and how I mi^ht tall into the ■ 
Hands of Savages, and perhaps fuch as I might have 
Rcafon to tliink tar worfe than the Lions and Tigers of 



.; Google 



( 119 ) 

Africa. That iFI once came into their Power, I fliould 
run a Hazard more than a thouland to one of being 
M'd, and perhaps of being eaten; for I had heard, 
that the Peojile ot the Carribtan Coafis were Cannibals, 
or Men-eaters ; and I knew by the Latitude, that [ could 
not be iar off from that Shore. That fuppofe they were 
not Cannibals, yet that they might kill me, as ninny 
Europeans who had fallen into their Hand had been fsr- 
ved, even when they had been ten or twenty togeclier ; 
much more I thatwas but one, and could make little 
or no Defence. All thefe things, I (ay, which I ought 
tohaveconfider'd well of, and I did caft up in my 
Thoughts afterwards, yet took up none o\ my Appre- 
heniions at firft ; and my Head run mightily upon tlie 
Thoughts of getting over to that Shore. 

Now 1 wilh'd for my Boy Xury, and the Long-Boat 
with the Shoulder of Mutton Sail, with which I fail'd 
above a Thoufand Miles on tlie Coaft of JfrUk-y but 
this was in vain. Then I thought i would go and look 
on our Ship's Boat, which, as I have faid, was blown 
up upon the Shore a great Way in the Storm, when we 
were firft cail away. She lay almoft where flie did at 
't quite ; and was turn'd by the ibrct- <if fhe 

jjlmoft Bottom upiva- 1, ^^ji-r& 

"^ • • -■- ^ Water about 

If I had had Hands to have rfhttea her, and to have 
Wnch'd her into the Water, the Boat would have d Jlie 
well enough, and I might have gone back into tlie^^ 
fih with her eafily enough ; but I mi_ght hauc^afily ^f^f 
ffen, that I could no more turn her, and fet her up** 
right upon her Bottom, Ihan I could remove the Illand. 
However, I went to the Wood and cut Levers and Rol- 
lers, and brought them to the Boat, refolv'd to try 
what T could do ; fuggefting to my lel^ that if I cculd 
but turn her down, 1 might eafily repair the Damage 
flie had received, and flie would be a very good EoaC> 
and I might go to Sea in her very eafily. 

I fpared no Pains indeed in this Piece of fruiclels 
Toil, and fpent, I think, three or four Weeks about ■ 
it ; at laft finding it impoITible to heave it up with my 
little Strength, I fell to,digging away the Sand to un- 
dermine 



, Google 



( "o ) 

^ermine it, Md Co to make it fall down, fettlng Pieces 
of Woud to thriift and guide it right in the Fail. 

But when I had done this, I was unahle to ftir it up 
again, or to get under it, niucJi lels to move it forwards 
towards the Water ; fo J was forc'd to give it over ; 
and yet, tho' I gave over the Hopes of the Boat, my 
Pefire to venture over for the Main increafed, rather 
than decreafed, as the Means fjr it feeni'd inipollihle. 

This at length put me upon thinking, whether it W3S 
not poffible to make my felfa Can.i or I'eria^uiij fitch as 
the Natives of thofe Climates make, even without Tools, 
or, as I might fay, without Hands, vi^. of the Trunk 
of a great Tree. This I not only thought poffible, but 
Cafy, and pleas'd my felf extreamly with the Thoughts 
of making it, and with my having much more Conve- 
nience for it than any of the JV^grsw or Mians ; lait not 
at all confidering the particular Inconveniences wliich I 
lay under, more than the Indians did, w^. Want of 
Hands to move it into the Water, when it was made ; 
a Difficulty much harder for me to furmount, than all 
iheConfequencesofWaut ofTools could he to them: 
For what was it to m*;, that when I had chcfen a valt 
Tree in the Woods, ( might \vjt!i great Troublrciit it 
down, ifafter I might he able w^th iw^wlo®!*' to hew 
and dub the Outflde int<fllH|^^ ShaQe'.'«<ivn Boat, and 
burn or cut out the Infidp^Wfe it hollow, fo to make 
aBoatofit, if after all this, I mud leave it iuil there 
where I found it, and was not able to launch it into the 
Water. 
^ One would have thought, T could not liave had the 
Tfeaft Refleftion upon my Mird of my Circumftance, 
while I was making this Boat, hut I fhould have im- 
mediately thought how I fliould get it into the Sea; 
but my Thoughts were fo intent upon my Voyage over 
the Sea in it, that I never once confider'd how I 
ihould get it oflfof the Land ; and it was really in its 
own Nature more eafy for ine to guide it over forty five 
Miles ofSea, than about Forty five Fathom of Land, 
where it lay, to (et it afloat in the Water. 

I went to work upon this Boat the moil like a Fool 
that ever Man did, wlio had any of his Senles awake. 
I pleas'd my felf with the Defign, without determin- 
ing 

fi..-i...ii,Goo'. Ic 



( I^I ) 

Ing whether I was ever able to undertake it ; not but 
that the Difficulty of launching my Boat came oiten 
into my Head ; but I put a flop to my own Enquiries 
into it, by this foolifh Aufwcr which I gave my ieW, 
■Let mefirft male U, I'll warrant I'll find fome ff'a)' cr ctber 
to get it ahnj^, when 'lis dene- 

This was a raoft prepollerous Method ; but the Ea- 
gernels of my Fancy prevail'dj and to work 1 went, and 
fell'd a Cedar-Tree: I quelHon much whether SMmm 
ever had fuch a one for the Building the Temple at 
yerufakm ; It was Ave Foot ten Indies Diameter at 
the lower Part nest the Stump, and four Foot eleven 
Inches Diameter at the End ol twenty two Foot, after 
which it leflen'd for a while, and then parted into 
Branches : It was not without infinite Labour that [ 
fell'd this Tree: I was twenty Days hacking and hew- 
ing at it at the Bottom ; I was fourteen more getting 
the Branches and Limbs, and the vaft fpreading Head 
ofitcutoff, which I haek'd and hew'd through with 
Ajte and Hatchet, and inexpreffible Labour ; Alter tliis, 
it coft me a Month to fliape it, and dub it to a Pro- 
portion, and to fomething like the Bottom of a Boat, 
that it might Iwim upright ^i it ought to do. It coli 
me rear three Months more to clear the Inflde, ajid 
WOrj(itjJirc-fo, as to m^ an exaft Boat of it ; Ihis E 
did indeed without Fi^^« mere Mallet and Chiffel, 
and by the dint of hard LaKur, till I had la-ought it 
to be 3 very handibme Pc/sgaa, and big enough to 
have carried fix and twthiy Meru and confcquenily big 
enough to have carried me and all my Cargo. 

W hen I had gone through this Work, I was extreme- 
ly deliglited with it .- T he Boat was really much big- 
ger than I ever faw a Caaie, or Penagu<i, that was made 
ofoneTree, tr my Life ^ Many a weary Stroke it bad 
eoft, you may be fure, for there remained nothing but 
to get it into the Water ; and had I gotten it into the 
Water, I make no qucftion, but I fhould have began 
the maddefl Voj'age and the moil unlikely to be per- 
form'dj that ever was undertaken. 

But all myDevices togetit into the Water fail'd me, 

though they coft me infinite Labour too ; It lay about 

one hundred Yards rrom the Water, and not more, bot 

G the 



, Google 



( '" ) 

flie fifft Inconvenience was, it was up Hill towanJs At 
Creek : Well, to take away this Difcouragement, 1 re- 
folv'd to dig into the Surface of ihe Earth, and fo make 
a Declivity : This I begun, and it coll me a prodigioia 
deal of Pains ; But who grudges Pains, that have theii 
Deliverance in View? But when this was worked 
through, and this Difficulty manag'd, it was ftill much 
at one ; for I could no more flir the Ca/tee than I could 
the other Boat, 

Then I meafur'd tJieDiftance ofGrdund.andrefolv'd 
€o cut a I>ock, or Canal, to bring the Water up to the 
Cauoe, feeing I could not bring the Caime down to the 
Water: Wei!, I began this Work, and when I began to 
enter into it, and calculated how deep it was to be dug, 
how broad, how the Stuff" to be thrown out, I found, 
that by the Number oi'Hands I had, being none but my 
*)wn, it tnuffi have been ten or twelve Years before I 
ihould have gone through with it ; ibr the Shore lay 
high, fo that at the upper End it muft have been at leaft 
twenty Foot deep ; fo at length, tbo' with great Re- 
Juftancy, I gave this Attempt overalfo. 

This griev'd m,e heartily, and row I faw, riio' too 
late, the Folly ofbeginning a Work before we-count the 
Coft, and before we judge tightly of our own Strengtii 



to go through with Lt. ' j| 

In the middle of thU WafC I i 
Year ie this Place, and kept my Anniverfary with the 



Jame Devotion, and with as much Comfort as ever be- 
fore ; for by a conffant Study, and ferious Application 
dI the Word of God, and by the Affiftance of his 
Grace, I gain'd a different Knowledge from what I had 
befiire : I entertajn'd different Notions of things ; I 
look'd now upon the World as a thing remote, which I 
had nothing to do with, no Expeftation from, and in- 
deed no Dcfires about : In a Word, I had nothing in- 
deed to do with it, nor was ever like to have ; lb t 
thought it look'd as we may perliaps look upon it here- 
sfter, vi^. as a Place I had lived in, but was come out 
cf it ; and well might I fay, as Father Abrabatu to plvn, 
EilTBcfn mi and thee is agrs*\ Gulpbfixgi}. 

In die firft Place, I was removed from all the Wic 
ttcdncfs of the World hezc; I had neither the i«/? of tit 



i '^n ) 

Mejh, the J,c0 tftlM Eys> or the Pnde if Life-i I !iad 
nothing to covet ; for I had all (hat I was now capable 
of enjoying: I was Lord of the whole Manor, or if I 
pleas'dl might call my felfKing, or Emperor over the 
whole Country which I had Poffcilioii of : There ivere 
no Kivals; I had no Competitor, nene to difpttte So- 
vereignty or Command with tne .- I might have rais"d 
Shtp-LoaditigsofCorn, bet I bad no Ute for it ; fo I 
let as littlegrow as I thought enough for my Occafion: 
I had Tortoife or Turtles enough ; but now and then 
one was as much as 1 could put to any Ule -■ I had 
Timber enough to have built a Fleet of Sliip : I had 
Crapes enough to have made Wine, or ro have cai-'d 
incoRaifinS) to have loaded that fleet when they had 
heen built. 

But all I could make Ufe of, was AH tljat was ra- 
Juable : I had enough to eat, and to fiipply my Wants, 
and what vfas all the reft to me? Jf I kill'd moreFUft 
xhan I could est, the Dog muft eat it_, or the Verniin ; 
afUWd moreCotn thanlcouldeat, itmuft befpoiS'd-; 
The Trees that I cut down were lying to rot on the 
Ground, 1 could make no more Ule ot' them than for 
Fewei, and.jhat I had no Occafion for, buc-todrefe my 
Food. ,. 

In' a' Word, the Nature and Experience of Things 
diiftatedto me upon jiift Reiieaion, that all the good 
Things of this World, are no farther good to us, than 
they are for our Ufe ; and that whatever we may heap 
up indeed to give others, we enjoy as much as We can 
life, and no more. The moft covetous griping Miler 
in the World would have been cured of the Vice of Co- 
vetoufnefs, if he had been in my Cafe; for \ poffefled 
infinitely more than 1 knew what to do with- I had no 
»Qom for Defire, except it was of things which I had 
■not, and they were hut Trifles, tho' indeed of great Ule 
to me, I had, as I hinted before, a Parcel ot Money, 
as well Gold as Silver, above thirty fi» Pounds Sterling; 
Alas! there the nafty ihrry afelefe Stuff lay ; I had no 
nianrter of Bufinefefor it; and I often thought with my 
feif, that I would have given a Handful of it for aGroft 
«f Tobacco-Pipes, or for a Hand-Mill to grind my Corn; 
. «ay, I would nave given it all for Sutpcwiy-worth of 
G 2 Turmt 



03I4 



( "4 ) 

Tuf/jip and Carrid Seed out oi England, or for a Hand/ul 
cfPea/e andSeanr, andaBottleof Ink: As it vas, I 
had not the leaft Advantage by it, or Benefit from it ; 
but there it laj in a Drawer, and grew mouldy with 
the Damp of the Cave, in the wetSeafon; and if I had 
had the Drawer full of Diamonds, it had been the fame 
Cale ; and tliey had been ol' no manner of Value to me, 
becaufe of no Uk. 

I had now brought my State of Life to be much eafier 
in it lelf than it was at firft, and much eafier to niy 
Mind, as well as to my Body : I frequently fat down 
to my Meat with Thankfulneis, and admired the Hand 
of God's Provitience, which had tlius fpread my Table 
in the Wildernefs : I learned to look more upon the 
bright Side of my Condition, and lefs upon the dark 
Side ; and to conlider what I enjoy'd, rather than what 
I wanted ; and this gave me fometimes fuch fecret Com- 
forts, that I cannot exprefs them ; and which 1 take 
Notice ol' here, to put thole difcontented People in 
Mind oi' it, who cannot enjoy comlbrtably what God 
has given them, becaule.tbey fee and covet fomething , 
that he has not given them ; All our Difcontents about 
what we want, appeared to me, to fpring frpmtheWant 
of Thankfulneis tor what we have. t^ 

AnotherRefleftion was of great Ufe tome, a^K^doube- ' 
lefs would be fo to any one that fliould fall into fuch 
Diftrefs as mine was ; and this was to compare my pre- 
fent Condition with tvhat I at iirft expefted it Ihould 
be ! nay, with what it would certainly have been, if 
the good Providence of God had net wonderliilly or- 
dcr'd the Ship to be call up nearer to the Shore, where 
I not only could come at her, but could bring what I 
got out of her to the Shore, ibr my Reliefand Comfbrt ; 
without which, i had wanted Tools to work, Wea- 
pons for Defence, oi Gun-powder and Shot for getting 
niy Food. 

I fpent whole Hours, I may fay whole Days, in re- 
yrefenting to my felf in the moft lively Colours, how i 
txax& have a^ed, if I had got nothing out of the Ship; 
how I eould not have fo much as got any Food, except 
Fifh and Turtles; and that as It was long before I found 
any of thetn, I mud have periHi'd iiiA ; Xliat I IbouU 
hara 

'3 



( "5) 

hare Kv'd, if I had not perifti'd, like a meer Savage j 
That if I had kill'd a Goat, or a Fowl, by any Con- 
trivance, I had no way to ilea or open them, or part 
the Flefli from the Skin and the Bowels, or to cut it 
up ; but muft gnaw it witli my Teeth, and pull it with 
my Claws like a Beaft. 

Thefe ReiSeftions made me very fenfible of the Good- 
nefsof Providence to me, and very thanklul for my 
prelcnl Condition, with all its Hardfhips and Misfor. 
tunes: And this Part alfo I cannot but recommend to 
the Refieftion of thofe whoare apt in their Mifery to 
fay, Is lurf ji^idion lite mine f Let them confider, how 
much worfe the Cafes of fome People are,and whattheir 
Cale might have been, if Providence had thought fit, 

I had another Re£eAion which allifted me alio to 
conifort my Mind with Hopes ; and this was compar- 
ing my prelent Condition with what I had deferv'd, and 
had therefore Reafon to expeA from the Hand of Pro- 
vidence : I had Uv'd a dreadful Life, perfeflly deftitute 
of the Knowledge and Fear of God ; I had been well 
iiiftruded by Father and Mother ; neither had they been 
Wanting to me in their early Endeavours, to infufe a 
religious Awe of God into my Mind, a Senfe of my 
Duty, and of what the Nature and £nd of my Being 
reqtiir'd oi me ; but alas ! falling eaily into the Sea- 
■'filring Life, which of all the Lives is the moft deftitute 
of the Fear of God, tho' hi> Terrors are always before 
them \ I fay, failing early into the Sea-faring Life, and 
into Sea-faring Company, all that litflc Senfe of Reli- 
gion which I had entertain'd, was lau^t out of me by 
my Mefs-Mates, by a hardcn'd defpiling of Dangers, 
and the Views of Death, which grew habitual tome, 
by my long Abfence from all manner of Opportunities 
to converfe with any thing but what was like my felf^ 
or to hear any thing that was good, or tended to- 
wards it. 

So void was I of every thing that was good, or of the 
\a& Senfe of what I was, or was to be, that in the 
greatefl Deliverances I enjoy'd, fuch as my Efcape from 
SaUtti my being taken up by the, Pirt^gue^e Mafter of 
thgShip, my being planted fowell in Bro/t/r, my re- 
ceiving the Cargu from Ei^liind, and the like, I nevec 
G 3 onw 



, Goodly 



( I2«) 

UBce batlihe WotdTAsntGurf, Co muchason my MinJ, 
cr in my Mouth ; nor in the greateft Diftrefs had I To 
mujh as a I'houglit to pray to hint ; or to much as to 
fty, J.erd have mercy upmt me ! no not to mention the 
Name ofGod, unlelsit was tofivear by, and blalpheme 

{ had terrible Refteftions uf on niy Mind for many 
Months, as I have already obterv'd, on the Account of 
ray wicked and harden'd Lite paft ; and when 1 look'd 
abuut me, and confider'd wbat particular Providences, 
had attended me Jince my coming into this Place, and 
tiow God had dealt bountifully with me ; had not only 
punilhi-d me lefsthan my Imqpity bad deferved, but 
had lb plentifuliy provided for me ; this gave me great 
Hopes that rtiy Repentance was accepted, and that 
GOD had yetMercies in Store for nic 

With thePe Refleftionsl w-ork'd my Mind up, not 
etily to Refignation to ihe Will of God in the prefent 
IJilpoJition ot' my Circumftances, but even to a fincere 
Thankfulnefs for my Condition; and that 1 who was 
yet a living Mail, cugbt wt U templain, fee'tr^ i bad 
vat tht Ale Pui.^meta ef tny Sim \ that 1 enjoy'd f« 
many Mercies which I had no Reafon to have expeded 
in that Place, that 1 ot^ht never more to repine at 
my Condition, but to rejpic^ and to give daily ThukS 
&r tbat Aaiiy Sread which nothing but a Cloud of 
Wonder&couid have brought. That I ought to confi- 
iet 1 bsd been fed even W a Miracle, even as great as 
*hat of feeding Slija^ by Ravens ;, ray, by a long SerieS 
•f Miracle^ and that 1 could haf dly hatfcnani'd a Place 
in the uninhabited Part of the World, (there I could 
have be«n oaft more to my Advantage ; A Viace, w'hero 
as I had no Society, which was my AfBiiSion on ofiO 
Hand, lb I fbiKid no raveiiousBeafts, no ftiriousWoIvrt- 
or'Tygers to threaten my Life ; no venomous Creatures 
or poifunoiis, which I mighr feedonto my Hurt,^no Sa* 
fages CO murder and devour liie. 

Ina Word, as my Life itas a Uft ef Sorro* *ii8 
Way, f'o it wBsa Lite of Mertyandtber ; and I V^atited 
nothing to maite iti Life ai Cfamfbrt, . but to be able 
to make my Senft of God's Goodneft to me, and Care 
c\tt ale ia this Condition, b< my daily ConfoltribD i 
and 



L.cKM. le 



an^ after I made a jaft Improvement of tliere ThbgB, 
I weniaway and was no more fad. 

1 iiad now been liere i"o long, that many Things which 
I brouglil on Shore for my Help, ivere eidier quite 
gone, or very n:uch wall«d and near Ipent. 

My Ink, asl obferv'd, had been gone tor fome Time, 
all but a very little, which I eek'd out with Wateralit. 
tie and a little, till it was fo pale it Icarce leit any Ap- 
pearance of Black upon the Paper : As Iong.as it lafted 
I made ule of it to Minute down the Uays of the 
Month on which any remarkable Thing liappen'd to 
me ; and fiift by cafting. up Times pad, I remember 
tliat there was a ftrange Concurrence of Days, in the va- 
rious Providences which befel me, and which, if i had 
been fuperftitiouHy inclin'd to obierve Oays as Fats) or 
fortunate, I might have had Reafon to liavelook'd up- 
en with a great deal of Curiofiiy. 

F irft, I had obierv'd, that the fame Day that I broke 
away from my Father and my Friends, and run a- 
v^ay to Hall in order to go to Sea, the fame Day after- 
wards I wai taken by the SaHei Han of War, and nude 
a Slave. 

The fame Day of the Year that I efcap'd out ofcbe 
Wreckof that Ship in T(W/»i!«*i Roads, that fame Day 
ef the Year afterwards I made my Ei'capc from SaHet' ia 
the Boat, 

The &me Day of the Year I was born on, (vrx-) the 
aoth of September, the iame Day 1 had my Life lb mi- 
raculouily laved 25 Years after, when 1 was caft on 
Shore in this Ifland ; ib that my wicked Life and foU- 
tary^ Life began both on a Da)'. 

The nest Thing to my Ink's being wailed, was that 
ef my Bread, I mean the Eisket which I brought out of 
the Ship; This I had husbanded to thelaftDegree,alIow- 
ing my felf but one Cake of Bread a Day, for above a 
Year; and yat I was quite without Bread for aYear be- 
fore i got any Corn otny own ; and great Keafon I had 
to he thankful that I had any at all, the getting it be- 
ing, as has been already obferved, next to miraculous. 

My Clothes began to decay too mightily : As to Lin- 

ren, I had none a good while, except Ibmo checquer'd 

i^rts which I fatwd in the Cbefti pt the pther Sqi- 

G 4. mci^. 



.;, Google 



( 1^8 ) 

men, and which I carefully pfeferv'd, beeaure many 
Times t could bear no other Clothes on but a Shir: ; 
and it was a very great Help to me that I had among 
all the Mens Cluthes of the Ship almoft three Doien of 
Miirts. There were alfo federal thick Watch Coats of 
the Seamens, which were left indeed, but they were too 
hot to wear ; and tho' it is true, that the Weather 
was ft) violent hot, that there was no need of Clothes, 
yet I could not go quite naked ; no, tho' I had been 
inclined to it, which I was not, nor could I abide the 
Thoughts of it, tbo' I wes all atone. 

One Reafon why I could not go quite naked, was, 
I couid not bear the Heat of the Sun fo well when 
quite naked, as with fome Clothes on; nay, the reiy 
Heat frequently blifter'd my Skin ; whereas with a 
Shirt on, the Air it felf made fome Motion, and whift- 
ling under that Shirt, was twofold cooler than without 

-it: No more could I erer bring myfelf to go out in the 

-Heat of the Siin without a Cap or Hat ; the Heat of 
the Sun beating with fuch Violence as it does in that 

iPIace, would give Bie the Head-Ach prefently,' by dart- 
ing fo direftly on my Head, without a Cap or Hat on j 
fo that I could not bear it J whereas if I put on my Hati 
it would prefently go away. 

Upon thofcViewsI began to confider about putting 
the tew Rags I had, which I call'd Clothes, into fome 
Order : 1 bad worn «ut all the Wafte-coats I had, and 
my Bufinefs wax now to try if I could not make Jackets 
out of the great Watch- Coats which I had by me, and 
with fuch other Materials as I had i fo I fet to work a 
Tayloring, or rather indeed a Botching; for J made 
moil piteous Work of it. However, i made ihift to make 
twoor three new Waftecoats, which I hoped would ferve 
me a great while ; as for Breeches or Drawers, I made 
but very ibrry ihiftindeed, till afterward. 

I have mentioned, that I iaved the Shins of all the 
Creatures that 1 ktll'd, I mean four-footed ones, and I 
bad hung them up ftretch'd out with Sticks in the Sun* 
by which means I'ome of them were fo dry and hard 
that they were fit for little, but others it fecms were 
veryufeful. The firft thing I made of thefe was a 

. creat Cap for my Head, with the Hair on the C^tiide 



Goo^4* 



( V2S ) 

to Ihoot off tbe Rain j and this I perform'd Co well, that 
after this I made a Suit of Clothes wholly of thofe 
Skins i tliat is to fay, a Waftecoat, and Breeches open at 
Knees, and both loofe, for they were rather wanting 
to keep me cool, than to keep me warm, I muft not 
omit to acknowledge that they were wretchedly made ; 
for if I was a bad Carpenter, I was a worfe Tayler ■ 
However, they were fuch as I made very good ftift 
with; and when I was abroad, it it happen'd to Rain, 
the Hair of of the Waftecoat and Cap- being outermoft, 
I was kept very dry. 

After this 1 fpent x great deal of Time and Pains tw 
make me an UmareUa. I was indeed in great Want of 
one, and had a great Mind to make one j I had fceit 
them made in the Brajih, where they are very ufefiil 
in the great Heats which arc there: And I fele thtt 
Heats every Jot as-great here, and greater too, being, 
nearer the Equinox ; befides, as I was obliged to be 
tnuoh abroad, it was a moft ufeliil thing to me, as- welt 
tor the Rains as the Heats. I took a world of Pains 
at i^ and- was a great while before I caald make any 
thing likely to hold ; nay, after I thought I had hit 
the Way, 1 fpuilt 2 or 3 beRare I made one to my Mind f 
bucatlall 1 made one that anfwer'd indllltrently well ; 
the main Difficulty I found was to make it to letdown- 
Icouldmakeitto fprfad, but ifitdid not letdown (00,. 
aiiddj'aw in ; it would not be portable foP me any Waj« 
but juft over ni&Head, which would not do : However, 
at la!^ as I faid, L made one to anfwer, I cover'd it. 
with Skins, the- Hair, upwards, fo that it caft off the 
Rain like a Penthouf^ and kept off the; Sun fo effec- 
tually, that I could walk out in the hotcell of the Wca^- 
ther, with, greater Advantage than I could before in the- 
moled, and when I had no Need of it^ 1 could clofe it 
SuaA, cany it under my Arm- 
Thus I lived imgbty comfortably, my Mind beings 
fWtirelycompofedby rdigiiingtathcWill of God, and 
throwing my felf wholly upon the Difpotal of his-Pnovi- 
dence : This made my Life better thcB fociable ; for: 
when I began to r^ret the want ot Conv*rfatioii, B 
would ask my felf, wbedicr tha* comerfing. mutual!^ 
with my own Thoughts, andaslhope Imayfaj^witm 



C i?o ) 



even my M^ker by E^cuUtions and PetirfoiB, was not 
better than the utuiiolt Entpymentof human Society in 
die World ? 

. I cannot (ay, that after this, for five Years, any ex- 
traordinary Thinghappen'd to me, btit I iiv'd on in the 
f?me Courre, in the fame Pofhtre and Place, juft as be- 
fore: Tlie chiet Thing I was eniplo/d in, befidet my 
yearly Labour of pluntiog niy Barky and Rwe, and 
curing my Kaifui% rfboth which I always kept up juft 
enoiqh to have fi^oienc Stack of. one Year's Provifi^ 
ons beforehand j I fay, belides this yearly Labour, and 
my daily Labour ot going.out widi my Cun, I liad one 
Labour to make me a Canoe, which at laft I iinilhcd : 
So that bydiginga Canal to it of fix Foot wide, and 
fSsur Foot deep, i brought it into the Creek, almoft half 
aMiJe, As for the firft, which wasfo -vaflly big, as 
1 made it witficut confidering before-hand, as! ought 
&>,do, bo*t Ifiioidd beable lolauhchit; fo: never being, 
able to bring it to the Water, or bring the Water to 
it, Jwsi obliged to let it lie where it was, as a Me- 
m raitdam to teach me to be wiler next Time. Indeed 
ifie next Time, tho' I could not get a Tree proper for 
it, and was in a Place wJiere I could not get the Water 
b) it, ac.iny lets Diftaaee than as I hare faid, of near half; 
a Mile ; yet as I law it was praftibje at laft, 1 never 
gave it dver ; and though I was rear two Years about 
it, yet I never grudged my Labour, ui Hopes of lay- 
ing a Boat to go olf to Sea in at laft. ^ 

riowevcfi tho' my little Peria^u^ was. iiniih'd, yec 
the Siie of it was not at all anfworable to the DeJign 
■which I had in View, when I made the iirft ; I mean, 
•f venturing, over to the Terra Firma, where it was 
abov.efotty Mileft.broad; accordihgly, the fmallnefs of 
my Boataf&fted to putan End to that I>efign, and now- 
I thought no more of it : But as I had a Boat, my next 
Beliz^i was JtfTcake & Tour round the Jilandj for as 
I had been an tile othw Side, in one Place, croffing, 
«I have alr&ady defcribed iti over the Land; to the 
Bifcoveries- 1 made in that Journey, made me very 
eager to fee the other Partiof the Coaft j and now I 
had a Boat, i tfaoaght of nothing but. failing round 

Sor 

I V.1OO' 



t 



For this Parpofe, and that I might do every thing, with' 
Difcretion and Confideration, 1 fitted up a little Maft 
to my Boat, and made 3 Sail to it out of fome of 
the Pieces of the Ship's Sails, which lay in Store, and of 
which I had a great Stock by nie. 

Having fitted my Maft and Sail, and tried the Boati 
I found llie vfould fait very well : Then I made little 
Lockers or Boxes, at either End of my Boat, to put 
Provifions, NeceiTaries, and Ammunition, ffc. into, to 
be kept dry, either from Rain, or the Sprye of the Sea j 
and a little long hollow Place I cut in the Infide of the 
Boat, where I could lay my Gun, making a Flap to 
hang down over it to keep it dry. 

I h-i'i my Umbrella alfo in a Step at the Stern, like 
a Malt, to ftind over my Head, and keep the Heat of 
the Sun oiF of me like an Auning; and thus I every 
now and then took a little Voyage upon the Sea, but 
never went far out, nor far from the little Creek, but 
at lad being eager to view, the Circumference of my 
little RingUom, J refolv'd upon my Tour, and accor- 
dingly 1 viftiialVd my Ship for the Voyage ; putting in 
'two EJozen of my Loaves, ( Cakes- 1 fliould rather call 
them) oi" Barley-Bread ; an Earthern Pet full of parch'd' 
Rice, a Food I eat a great deal of ; a little Bottle of 
Rum, halfa Goat.and Powder ivith Sliet for killing,, 
more, and two large Watch-coats, of thofe vtf'hichj as 1 
mentioned before, 1 had fav'd out of the Seamens Chefls^ 
thefe I took, one to lie upon, and the other to cover 
me in the Night. 

It was the fixth of November, in the fiirh Year of my 
itteign, or my Captivity, which you pleale, that I fel 
out on this- voyage, and I found it much longer than I 
expeftedj.fottho' the Ifland itfelf wasnot very large, 
Vet when 1 came to the Eaft Side of it, I found a great 
tedge of Rocks lie out about two Leagues into the Se^ 
Tome above Water, lome under it ; and beyond that, a 
Shoal of Sand, lying dry half a League more ; fo that I 
wasoblig'd to go a greatWay cut to Sea to double that 
Pwnt. 

When firft.I difcover'd them^ I wa? going to give oyer' 
my Enterpriie, and come back again, not knowing. 
bow-fwi'Mnight oblige me 63 gg out to Seas, and above 



X'OO^^Ie 



( fsi ) 

al], doubting how I flipuld £et back, again J fo I came 
to an Anchofj for I hii4 made me a ki|Pd oF an Anchor 
with a Piece of a brol^n GvapHn;' which I got out of 
the Ship. 

Having fecur'd my Boat, I took my Gun, zni went 
oa Shore, chmbing up upon a Hill, which feem'd to 
overlook that Point, where I faw the full Extent of it, 
ajid relblv'd to venture. ' . 

In my viewint^the Sea froiri ifiat Hill where I flood, 
I pereeiv'd a ftroiig, and indeed,' a mod furious Cur- 
rent, which run to the £a/?, and even came clofe to the 
Point; and I took the more Notice of it, becaufelfaw 
thtre might be fome Danger, that when I came into it, 
I might be carried out to Sea by the Strength of it, 
and not be able to make the illand again ; And indeed, 
had I not gotten firft up upon this Hill, I believe it 
would have been fo ; for there was the fame Current on 
the other Side the Ifland, only that it fet off at a far- 
ther Didance ; and I faw there was a ftrong £d<ty unp 
der the Shore ; fo I had nothing to do but to get in 
eitf of die fiiit Current, and 1 ihould prefently be in 
an Eddy. 

I lay here, however, two Days; becaufe the Wind 
blowing pretty freih at E,S'E. (and that being juft con- 
trary to the Paid Cdrrent) made a great Breach of the 
Sea upon the Point', fo that it wai not f^fe for me to 
keep too clofe to the Shore for the Breach, nor to go 
too far offbecaule of the Stream. 

The third Day in. the Morning the Wind having 
abated over Night, the Sea was calmi and I yentur'd.} 
\ but I am a Waming-Pieee again to all rafh and i^o- 
rant Pilots \ for no Iboner was I come to the Point, when 
_even I was not my Boat's Length from the Shore, but I 
'found my felf in a great Depth of Water, and a Current 
■like the Sluice of a Mill : It carried my Boat along with 
it with fuch Violence, that all I could da, coulil not 
Jicepherfo much as on the Edge of it; but I found 
it hurried me farther and farther out from the Eddy, 
which was do my Left Hand. There was no Wind 
ftirriog to help me, and all I could do with my Pad- 
dles fignified nothing ; and now I began t« give my 
felf ever for lofl ; for as the Current wa* on both SJd« 
th« 



K,3le 



( '33 ) 

tne Iffan^) I knew in a few Leagues Diftance tliey 
muft join again, and then I was irrecoverably gone j 
nor did I fee any Poflihilitj' of avoiding ir, fo tliat I 
had no Profpeft before me but of perilhing ; not by the 
Sea, for that was calm enough, but o[ Oarving for Hun- 
ger. 1 had indeed found a Tortoife on the Shore, as 
big alraoft as I could liit, and had tols'd it into the 
Boat; and I had a great Jar of frefli Water, that is 
to fay, one of my Earthen I'ots ; but what was all thw 
to being driven into the vatt Ocean, where, to be fure, 
there ivas no Shore, no main Land, or Ifland, for a 
thoufand Leagues at leaft ? 

An Jnow I faw hov/ eafy it was for the Proyidence of 
God to make the moft mfcrableCondition that Mankind 
could be in, vjorfe. Now I look'd back upon my de- 
folate foHtaiy {(land, as the moft pleaiant Place in the 
Wtfild, and all the Happinefs my Heart could widi for, 
was to be but there again ; I ftretch'd out my Hands 
to it with eager Wiihes } O happy Defart, laid I, I 
fiial] never fee tfaee more j O milerable Creature, faid 
I, whether am I going! Then I reproach'd my felf 
with my unthankful Temper, and how I had repin'd at 
my folitary Condition; and now what would 1 give to 
be on Shore there again ? Thus we never fee the true 
State of our Condition, till it is illuftrated to us by its 
Contraries; nor know how to value what we enjoy, but 
by the Want of it : It is fcarce poiRble to iinagine the 
Confterpation I was now in, being driven from my be- 
loved Ifland ( for (o it appeared to me now to be ) into 
the wide Ocean, almofl two Leagues, and in the ut- 
moft Defpair of ever recovering it again .• However I 
wbrk'd hard till indeed my Strength was almoft ex- 
haufled, and kept my Boat as much to the Nfitbwar^^ 
that is, towards the Side of the Current which the Ed.- 
dy lay on, as pofKbly I coutd ; when about Noonj as 
the Sun pals'd the Meridian, I thought I felt a little 
Breeze of Wind in my Face, fpringihg up from tbs 
S. S. E. This chear'd my Heart a little, and efpecially 
when in about half an Hour more it blew a pretty 
fmal! gentle Gale : By this Time I was gotten at a 
frightful Diftance from the liland, and had the leafj 
Cloud or hazy Weather interycn'd, I had been und#ne, 
anothes 



, Google 



i 134 ) 

atiotlier Vfnf too ; for I had no Compafs on Board, avS' 
ihould never have known how to have fteer'd towards 
the Wand, if I had but once loft Sight of U J but the 
Weather Continuing clear, I applied my felf to get up 
my Maft again, fpread my Sail, ftanding away to tlw 
Kirtli as much as poflSIiIe, to get out of tlie Current. 

Juft as I had fet my Maft and Sail, and the Boat be- 
gan to ftretch away,- 1 faw even b^ the Clearnefs of the 
Water, fojne Alteration of the Current was near; for 
vfhCre the Current was fo ftrong, the Water was foul ; 
tut perceiving the Water clear, I found the Current 
abate, and prefently 1 found to the Eaff, at about half 
a Mile, a Breach of the Sea upon fome Rocks ; thefe 
Rocks I found caus'd the Current to part again ; and as- 
theniain Strefsofit ran away more Soulhfly, leaving 
the Rocks to the Nor(^£^,fo the other return'dby the 
Repulfe oi the Rocks, and made a ftrong Eddy, which 
ran back again to the Nortb-Wefi with a very Jharp 
Stream. 

They who tnoW what it Is to have a Reprieve 
ferought to them upon the Ladder, or to be refcued 
from Thieves juft going to murder tbeiii, or who have 
been in lUeh like Extremities, may guefs what my pre- 
fent Surpriie of Joy was, and bow gladly I put my 
Boatinto the Stream- of this Eddy, and the Wind alio 
frelhening, how gladly 1 (pread mj? Sail to it, running 
ehearfully before the Wind, and. with a flrong Tide or 
Eddy nnder Foot. 

This Eddy carried me about a League in my Way 
Sack again directly towards the IHand, but about two- 
Leagues more to the Nortbw^Vd than the Current lay, 
which carry'd me away atfirfl;fothat wrhen I came near 
the Ifland, I found my felf open to the Northern Shore 
tof it, that is to fay, the other End of the Ifland, op- 
polite to that which I went out from. 
' . When I had made fomething more than a League of 
Way by the Help of this Current or Eddy, I fpuiid it 
was fpent and ferv'd me no farther. However, t found 
ihat being between the two gr^at Currents, ( vi^. J that 
on the South Side, which had hurried me away, and 
thaton the North, which lay about a League on the 
ether. Side :.I &y, between thefe two, in the Waite of 

■, . . ■ thfe 



Google 



( Mr) 

thclfland, I fopnd ihc Water at kail ftUf, and ranning 
no Way ; an4 having ftUI a Breeze of Wind fair tee 
me, I i^ept on fteering.difcaly for the ifland, tho' not 
making lUcIi.fr^fii Way asl did before. 

About fep: a-Clocit in the Evening, being, then with- 
in about a. League of the Idand, I found the Point of 
the Rocks which occafioned thisDilafter, ftrecchingoul^ 
as is def?ribed before, to the Southward, and calling. 
otFthe Cutwnt n^ore Scathwardly, had of courfe mada 
ehother pidyt^tthe North, and this I found very 
ftrong, but not direilly fettingthe Way nij Courfe lay^ 
which was due Weft,, but almoft fldl North. How- 
ever, haying a frelliGate, I ftretcli'd a-crofs this Eddy 
flanting, North-Weft, and in about an Hour came with- 
in about a Mile of the Shorty where it being, fmooth 
Water, I foon got to Laiid. 

When I was on Shore I'fell on m^ Knee^ and gare 
God Thanks formy Deliverance, relolving to lay alidc 
all Ttioughts of my,' Deliver an ce by my Boat; andre* 
freftingmy felfwitj^ fuch Things as I had, I brought 
p\y BoHt clcfe lo ^ic Sliore in a little Cove that 1 had 
ipy'd under, fojne Trees, and laid me ^wn to deep, be- 
ing ^uite fpenC with, the Labour and Fatigue ot the 
Voyage.. 

1 was npw at a flfCat Lofs wbicb IfVay to get Home 
with my Boat ; I bad run io much miard, and knew 
too mueb the Cafe to think of attempting it by the 
Way I went out ; and what mi^t be at the other Side, 
{Ime»nthe Weft-Side) I knew not^ nor, had I any 
Mind t» run anymore Ventures,, fo I only refolyed tit 
the Morning to make my Way Weftward along, the 
Shore, and to fee if there was no Creek where I might 
lay up my Fregate in Safety, fo as to have her ag?in if 
1 wanted her. In about three Miks, or thereabout^ 
toafting the Shore, I came to a very good Inlc^ or 
Bay, about a title over, which: narrow'd till it came 
to a very little Rivulec or Brook, whetc I found a 
convenient Harbour for my Boat, and where Ihe lay as 
if flie bad been in a little Dock made on purpofe foe 
her ; Here I put in, and having flov**d my Boat verf 
fefe, I wentwKiorc to look about mc, a»d fee wlic«. 



Hosted by Google 



me) 



I Toon fcund I had but a tittle parrd ty the Place 
where I had been before, when'I travell'd on Foot to 
that Shore; fo taking ;iothiflg oUt of my Boat, but my 
Gun and my . Umbffik, for it .was exceeding hot, I 
began my March ; The Way was comfortable enough 
after fuch a Vajjage as I had been upon, and I reacli'd 
my old Bower in the Evering, where I lonnd every 
thing ftanding as T left it ; for I always kept it in good 
Order, being, as I faid before, my Countryhoufe. 

I got over the Fence, and lajd nie doWn in the Shade 
to reft my Limbs," for I was very weary,- and fell afleep : 
But judge you, if you can,,-thatread ury 'Story what a 
Sui^rize I inufl: be in, when 1 was wak'dettt of my 
Sleep by a Voice caHing me by my Name feyeral 
times, Roiin, Robing '' Roiia, Crafie, poor Robiit Crufoe ! 
where are you Sni/n Crujoe? Where are yoH ? Where 
have you been ? ' 

I was fo dead afleep at firftj being fatigu'd with Row- 
ing, or Paddling, as it is call'd, the iirft Part of the Day, 
and Walking the latter Part, *hat 1 did not Wflke 
thoroughly ; butjdozing between' Seeping and wakidg, 
thought I dreamM that fome Body fpoke to me ■■ But 
as the Voice cofitinued to repeat Roiim Cn4aey Rtbia 
Crufcf, at laft Ibegan. to awake more perfeftly, and was 
at iifft dreadfully frighted, and flatted up ititheutmoil 
CsnfternatHJD : Buttio ftpflet were piy Eyes open, but 
I faw my Pcfffittin^ en the Topofthe Hedg*, arid im- 
mediately ktlcw that it trashe thiic (bbke M lue; for 
J'ufi in fnch bemoanibg Lai^uage t had ufed to talk r» 
litn, and teach him ; a!i;d N* had karn'd it fo perfc^ly, 
that be would lit upon niy Finger, and lay his BiH 
clofe to my Face, and cry, Teor Robin Crulbe, iVbere 
areffu > Where baveym bten ? Hiw come you hire f and 
ibchThingsas I had taught him. 

However, even thoiigh J krtnv it was the Parrot, and 
that indeed it could be no body elfe, it was a good 
■while before I could conipofe my felf. Firft, I wa* a- 
ma^'d how the Creature got thither, and then how he 
Ihocild juft keep about f^e Place, and no where elfe ; 
But as I was well fatisfied it could be no Body but ho- 
neft P^B, I got it over ; and holding-owt my Hand, and 
xalling him by bis Name Fell, the fociahle Creatone 
cani» 



tame to rfie, anct 'fat upon my TIramb, as lie .ufed to 
do, and continued talking to me, Pmr Rol»n Crufoe, 
and bnw did 1 come here ? And wAffre haJ I been ? Juft 
as if he had been overjoy'dto fee me again; and lb I 
carried him Home along witli me, 

I had now had eimugli of rambling to?Sea forfomc 
time, and had enough to do for many Days to fit ftill,' 
and refleftupon the Danger I had been in: I would 
have been very glad to have had my Boat again on 
my Sideoftlie Ifland; but I knew not haw it was 
prafticable to get it about : As to the EaftSideofthe 
ifland, which 1 had gone round, I knev/ well enough 
there was no venturing that Way ; my very HearC 
Vfould Itrink, and my very Blood run chill but to 
think of it : And as to the other Side of the Ifland, I 
did not know how it might be there ; but fuppofing 
the Currant ran with the fame Force againft the Shore 
at the Eaft, as it paft'd by it on the other, I might 
run the fame Risk of being driven down the Stream, 
and oarry'd by the IHand, as I had been before, of be- 
ing carry'd away from it; ib with thefe Thoughts ( 
Contended my felf to be without any Boat, tho'ithad 
been the Produd of (o many Months f^bour to make 
i^ and of fo many more to get it unto the Sea. 

In this Government of my Temper I remain'd near a 
Vear, liv'd a very fedate retired Life, as you may well 
fuppofe; andmy Thoughts being very much cotnpos'd 
Ostomy Condition, and fully comforted inreflgrmig my 
feif to the Difpofitioia of Providence, I thought llird 
really very happily in all things, except that of So- 
ciety. 

I improv'd my felf in this Time in all the mechanlck 
Exerciles which my Neceffities put me upon applying 
my feir to, and I believe could, upon Occafion, have 
made a very good Carpenter, efpeeially conlidering how 
few Tools I had, 

Befides this, ( arriv'd at an unexpefled Pcrfcftion in 
Hiy Earthen Ware, and contrived well enough to make 
tnemvrith a Wheel, which I found infinitely cafierani 
better ; becaufs I made Things round and fhapeabl^ 
which before were filthy Things indeed to look on t 
eft I think I was never more vain of my own Perlbr- 
maiicei 



, Google 



( '38 ) 

WMcej or more joyful for any Thing I found out, (fun 
for my being abk to make a Tohacco-Pipe ; and tho' 
it was a very ugly clumly Thing, when it vfas done, 
and only burnt red like other Earthen Ware, yet as it 
was hard and £rm, and would draw the Snioak, I vm 
CKceedin^y comforted with it ; for I had bean always 
ufed to Smoak, and there were Pipes in the Ship, but 
I forgot them at firftj not knowing that there was 
Tobacco in the IlUnd ; and afterward when I learch'd 
the Ship again, I could not come at any Pipesatall. 

In my Wicker-ware alfo I improved much, and made 
Abundance of neceffary Baskets, as well as my Invention 
fliew'd Bje, thoughoat very hardfom, yet convenient for 
my laying. Things up in, or fetching Thin^ home in. 
For Example, if I kill'd a Goat abroad, I could hang 
it up in a Tree, -flea it, and drefs it, and cut it in Pie- 
ces, and bring it home in a Basket ; and the like by a 
Turtle, I could cut it up, take out the Eggs, and a 
Piece or two of the Flefli, which was enough for me, 
arnd bring them home in a Basket, and leave the refl 
behind me : AMb large deep Baidcets were my Recei- 
vers for my Com, which I always rubb'd out as foon 
3fi it wK dryland cured, and kept it in great Bas. 
kets inflaad or a Granary. 
: I began now to perceive my Powder abated coofi* 
oerably, and this was a Want which it was impoifibia 
for me to fi^ply, and 1 began feriouily to confider what 
X muQ do when I Ihould have no more Powder ; that 
i* to fay, how I fhould do to kill any Goats> I had, 
as is obferv'd in the third Year of my being here, kept 
ayoung.Kid, and bred her up tame, I was in hopes of 
getting a He-Goat, but I could not by any means orirg 
it to pafs, till my Kid grew an old Goat ; and [ could 
never find in juy Heart to kill her, till flie dy'd at lall 
ftf meer Agp. 

But being now in the eleventh Yea» of my Reiidence, 
and, as I have faid, my Ammunition groWins low, I 
ftt my fclf to fliMy fome Art to tcap-and inare tha 
Goats, to fee whether I cauld not catch fome of them 
^live, and particulaiiy I Wuced a ShcGoat great with 



.;, Google 



inn 

To this Furpoft I made Snares to hamper tlietiii anJ- 
I do believe they were more than once taken in them ; 
6iit my Tackle was not good, for I had no Wire, and 
1 always found them broheti, and my Bait devour- 
ed. 

At length I refolf 'd to try a Pit-fell, fo I dag fevera! 
large Pits in the Ewth, in Places where I had obferT'd 
the Goats uTed tafeed, and over thefe Pita I placed 
Hurdles of my ewn making too, with a great Weight 
upon them ; and fcveral times 1 put Ears of Barley and 
dry Rice, withoitt fctting the Trap, and I could eafilf 
perceive that the Goats had gone in and «iteii up tfie 
Corn, for' i could fee the Mark of thdr Peet : At 
length I fet three Traps in one Night, and going tht 
next Mottling I found them all ftanding, and yet the 
Bait eaten and gone ; thi^ was very difcotiraging. 
However, lalter'dmy Traps, and not to trouble yon 
with Particulars, going one Morning, to fee my Traps, 
1 found in one of them a large old He-Goat, and in 
one of tlie other liirec KMs, a Male and two Fc- 
twaiea 

As to the aid oBe, T knew dot what to io with liitrr^ 
lie~*a* «i fierce I dur^ fwt go Into the Pit to him; that 
istofay^to go about t0 bring him away alive, which 
was what 1 wanted s I could hare kitl'd him, but that 
was not my Bufinefi, nor would it anfwcr my End^ 
So I e^ let^him out, and he ran away as if he had been 
frighted out of his Wits;ButI had forgot tlien what 
1 had learned afterward^ that Hunger will tame a Li- 
en .* If I bad let him ftay there thtee or four Days 
Without Food, and then have carry'd him Tome Water 
fa> driritj find Hien a little Corn, he would have been a*- 
tame as one of the Rids, for they are mighty fagaeioui- 
traftable Creatures where tbey are well ufed. 

HoweVe!!, for the preient I let him gp, knowing nd> 
better at that lime ; then 1 went to three the Kids, and 
ttking, tfiem oiiebyone, 1 ty'd them with Strings to- 
feether, and Witi fome DifficuSty brought them all 

It was a good *l»le before they weald feed, but 

tlirowing them fome fweetCorn, it tempted them, and 

i^y^begjin to be ume i Andnow I found that if I ex- 

peae4 



, Google 



( Mo ) 

pe&ed to fupply my felf with Goat Flefh, when I had 
DO Powder or Sliot left, breeding fome up tame was nij 
only Way, when perhaps I might hav/g them about my 
Houfelike aFlookofSheep.. 

But then it preiently occur'd to me, that I mufl keep 
the Tame from:the Wild, or elie they would always 
fun wild w.liien toey grew, up ; and the only Way lot 
this was to have i'ome encloled Piece of Ground, well 
fenc'd either with Hedge or Pale, to keep them up 
fo effcftually, that thoie within might not break ou^ 
or thofe without break in. 

Thiswasagreat Undertaking for onePairofHands[ 
yetasl law there was an abfolute Neceffity ofdoiiigit, 
my firft Piece ofWorkwasio find out a proper Piece rf 
Ground, vix' where there was likely to be Herbage for 
them to eat; Water for them to drink, and Cover to 
Keep them from the Sun. 

Thofe who underftard fuch Enclofures will think I 
had very little ContrivancCj when I pitched upon a 
Place very.proper for all thefe, being a plain open Piece 
of Meadow-Land or Savamta, (as our People call it i; 
the Weftetn Colonies,) which had two or three little 
Dryis of frefh Water in it, and at one end WM very 
woody : I fay they will finile at my Forecafti when [ 
fliall tell tbem I began my «nclofing of this Pitice lA 
Ground in fuch a Manner, that my Hedge or Pale muft 
have beet) at leaft two Mite abtHat ; Nor was the Mad- 
ne&of it fo great as to t^e. Compafs, for if it wa> ten 
Mile about I was like to have time enough to do it in : 
But I did not coniider that my Ooat& would be as wild 
in fo much Conipafs, as if they had had the whole I- 
fland, and I ftould have fo much Koom to chafe them 
in, that I Ihould never catch them. 

My Hedge was begun and carry'd on, I believe about 
fifty Yards, when this Thought occur'd to me ; fo I 
prefently ftopt Ihort, and for the firft Beginning I re- 
folv'dtoinclofeapieceefabout 150 Yards in length, 
and 100 Vardt in Breadth which as it wouU maintain 
asmany asl ihould have in any reafonable Time, fo as 
my Flock enqreafcd* I could add more Ground to my ' 
£tK;]ofurc. 1 

.. .. i ' ' ' Thfl 

Hosted bvGoo^Ic 



( Hi ) 

This was afting with fotne Prudence, and I went to 
work with Courage } 1 was ahout three Months hedg- 
ing in the firft Piece, and till I had done it I tether'd 
the three Kids in the bed Part of it, and ufed them to 
feed as near me as poifible to make them familiar ; and 
Tery often I would go and carry them fome Ears ofBar- 
hy, or a Handful of Rice, and ieed them out of my 
Hand ; fo that after my Inclofure was finifli'd, and I 
let them loofe, they would follow me up and down. 
Wearing after me for a Handful of Corn. 

This anfwer'd my End, and in about a Year and half 
I had a Flock of about twelve Goats, Kids, and all ; 
and in two Years more I had three and tbrtj', hefides 
fcveral that I took and kill'd (or my Food ; And alter 
that I inclofed five leveral Pieces of Ground to feed 
them in, with little Penns to drive them into, to take 
them as I wanted them, and Gates out of one Piece of 
Ground into another. 

But this was not all ; for now I not only had Goats- 
Fleih to feed on when I pleas'd, but Milk too, a thing 
which indeed in my Beginning 1 did not lb much as 
think ofj and which, when it came into my Thoughts, 
was really an agreeable Surpriie ; For now I fet up my 
Dairy, and had ibmctimes a Gallon or two of Milk in 
a Day. And as Nature, who gives Supplies of Food to 
every Creature, diftates even raturallj' how to make 
ule of it; lb I that had never milk'd a Cow, much lels 
a Goat, or ieen Butter or Cheefe made, very readily 
and handfly, tho' after a great many Eflitys and Mif- 
carriages, made me both Butter and Cheefe at lafl, and 
never wanted it afterwards. 

How mercifully can our great Creator treat his Crea- 
tures, even in thofe Conditions in which they feem'd to 
he over-ivhelm'd in Deftruftion ! How can he fweeten 
the fntterad; Providence*, and give us Caufe to praifa 
him for Dungeons and Prifuns! What a Table was here 
^iKidfoime in a WiSdernefs, where I iaw nothing at 
nrft but to perifii for Hunger ! 

' It would have made a Stoick Smile to have feen mo 
andmyUttlc Family fit down to Dinner; there was 
•tyMajefty, the Prince atid Lord of the whole Iflandi 
I iiad the Lives of alt my Subjefts at my abfoluta 



Coin- 
Go Ogle 



( I4» } 

|CoiBa«nd- I could bang, draw, give Life and Liber^^ 
and Mke it away, ajid no Rebels among all my SubjeiSs. 

Th^n to i«e iiow like a King I din'd too, all alone, 
attended by my Servants ; PeO, as if he bad been my 
Favourite, vias the only Perlbn permitted to talk ta 
me J my Dog, \yho was now grown very old and 
«raiy, and found no Species to multiply bis Kind up- 
on, iat always at my Right Hand ; and two Cats, one 
on one Side the Table, and one on the other, expeS- 
ing now and then a Bit Irom iny Hand, as a Mark of 
fpecial Favour. 

But thefe were not the two Cats which I brought on 
Shore at firft, for they were both of theni dead, and 
iiad been interr'd near my Habitation by my own 
■Hands ; but one of them having niultiply'd by I know 
mot what Kind of Creature, thefe were two which [ 
iad preferv'd tame, whereas the reft run wild in the 
Woods, and became indeed troublefome to me at laftj 
for they would often come into my Houfe, and plunder 
Sie too, till at lafl 1 was obliged to Otoot them, and did 
Jiill a great many } at length they left me with this Alt 
tendance ; and in this plentifiit Manner I liv'd ; neither 
•could I be faid to want any Thing but Society, and o£ 
that in fome time after this 1 was like to hav« too much. 

I was fomething impatient, as I have obferv'd, to 
bave the Ufe of my Boat, tho' very loath to run any 
■more Hazards ; and there&ire fometimes I Iat contriv- 
ing Ways to get her about tfce Ifland,,and at other times 
1 (at my lelf down contented enough without ber. But I 
bad a ftrange Uneafineis in my Mind to go down to 
^he Point of the Ifland, where, as I have laid, in my 
laft Ramble, I went up the Hill to fee how the Shore 
lay, aod how the Current fet, that I might fee what! 
had to do ; This Inclination increafed upon meevery 
■Day, and at length I refolved to travel thither by 
Land; and followingthe Edge of the Shore I did.fo:BiB 
had any one in England been to meet fudi a Mas as I 
«vas, it mull either have frighted them, orwiibd.* great 
^eal of Laughter -, snd as I frequciitly. flood ftill to 
look at my ftlf, I could not but fmile aftbo Nodon o! 
my travelling tW Torijhire with fudi an Etmp»ge,»ai 
■■■-*■ 

. I, .Google 



{ '43 ) 

in fuch a Drcfs. Be pleared to take a Sketdi of mj* 
Figure as follows. 

1 had a great liigli Ihapelefs Cap, made of a Goat's 
Skin, with a Flap hanging down behind, as well to 
keep the Sun from me, as to ihoot the Rain ofl from 
running into my Neck ; nothing being fo hurtful in 
thele Climates, as the Rain upon the Flelh under the 
Clothes. 

I had a Short Jacket of Goat-Skin, the Skirts coming 
down to about the Middle ot my Thighs ; and a Pair 
■ef opeii-kneed Breeches of the lame ; the Breeches were 
made of the Skin of an old He-goat, whofe Hair hung 
down luch a Length on either Side, that like Panfthuas 
it reach'd to the Middle of my Legs. Stockings and 
Shoes I had none, but I had nude me a Pair ot fome- 
thing, I fearce know what to call them, like Buskins, 
to flap over my Legs, and lace on eUher Side like Spat- 
terdafhers ; but of a mod barbarous Shape, as indeed 
were all the reft of my Cloaths. 

1 had on, a broad Belt of Goat's Skin dry'd, whicli 
I .drew together with two ThongS of the fame, inftead 
of Buckles, and in a kind of a Frog on either Side oi' 
this, inftead of a Swdrd and a Dagger, hung a little Saw 
.and a Hatchet, one in one Side, one on ihe other ; I 
had another Belt not Co broad, and fiften'd in.the fame 
manner, which hung over my Shoulder ; and at the 
End of it, under my left Arm hung two Pouclies, both 
nude of Goat's Skin too ; in one of which hung my 
Powder, in the other my Shot ; At my Back I carried 
wy Basket, on niy Shoulder my Gun, and over my 
Head a great cluml'y ugly Goat-Skin Unibrello, hu£ 
which, alter all, was the moft neceffary thing I had 
about me, next to my Gun : As for my Face, the Co- 
lour of it was really not lb Moielta like, as one might eic- 
pea from a Man not at all careful of it, and living with- 
in 5 or lo Degrees of the Et/uinox. My Beard I had 
once ftiflfer'd to grow til! it was about a Qyarter of a 
Yard long; but as I^hadboth Seil&rs and Razors fufli- 
cient, I had cut it pretty fliort, exceja what grew on 
ray upper Lip, which I had trimm'd into a large Pair oT 
Mahometan Whiskers, fuch as I had feen worn by fome 
^rh, whom I faw at SaSst, for the Mms did iiot wear 
&ch 



Google 



( 144 ) 

flich, tho' the Turts did; oftliefe Muftachiocs, or WIii&; 
kers, I will not lay tliey were long enough to hang my 
Hat upon them, but they were oia Length and Shape 
monftrous enough, and fuch as in England would have 
paOed for frightlui. 

But all this is by the by ; for as to my Figure, I had 
fofewto oblerveme, that is was ofno manner of" Con. 
fequence; To I lay no more to that Part : In this kind 
of Figure I went my new Journey, and was out five or 
fix Days. I travcH'd iirft along the Sea-Shore, direft- 
ly to the Place where I firft brought my Boat to an An- 
chor, to get up upon the Rocks ; and having no Boat 
now to take care ot^ 1 went over the Land a nearer 
Way, to the fame Height that I was upon before ; when 
looking forward to the Point of the Rocks which lay 
cut, and which I was oblig'd to double ivith my Boat, 
as I faid above, I was furpriz'd to fee tlie Sea ail fmootli 
and quiet, no EUppling, no Motion, no Current, any 
more there than in other Places. 

I was at a ftr»nge Lofs to underfland this, and relblv'd 
to fpend fome Time in the obfervtng it, to fee if notiiing 
from the Sets of the Tide had occaliun'd it; but I ivas 
prefently convinc'd how it was, w'^. That the Tide of , 
Ebb fetting from the Weft, and joyning with the Cur- 
. rent ofWaters from fome great FUver on the Shore, niufi 
hetheOccafion of this Current; and that according as 
the Wind blew more forcible from the tfe//, or from 
the Nirtb, this Current came near, or went fartliet ■ 
I from the Shore ; for waiting thereabouts till Evening, 
I went up to the Rock again, and then the Tide Of Ebb 
l>eing made, I plainly faw the Current again as before, 
only, that it ran farther off, being near half a League 
from the Shore 1 whereas in my Cafe, it fet clofe upon 
the Shore, and hurried me and my Canoe along with it> 
which at another Time it would not have done. 

This Obfervation convinc'd me. That 1 had notiiing 
, todobmtoobfervethe Ebbing and the Flowing of the 
■ * ide, and I might very eafily bring my Boat about the 
Ifland again ; but when I begap to thmk of putting it 
in Pradticc, I had fuch 3 Terror upon my Spirits at 
ihe Remembrance of the Danger I had been in, that I 
o>uld not think of it again with any Patience ; but on 
th8 

I Google 



( l°6 ) 



til e contrary, t took up anotlier Refolution, wliich (vas 
more fafe, tliougli [More labovioiis ; and this was. That 
I would Wild, or rather make me anotlier Fe'iagun, or 
Came ; and fo have one for one Side of the Ifland, and 
one for the oilier. 

You are to underftand, tliat now I had, as I may call 
it, two Plantations in thi IHind ; one my little Forti- 
fication or Tent, with the Wall about it under the 
Kock, with the Cave behind me, which by this Time 
i ha^ enlarg'd into feveral Apartments or Caves, one 
ivitliin another. One of thele, which was the dryeft, 
and largeft, and had a Door out beyond riiy Wall or 
Fortification ; that is to fay, beyond where my Wall 
j jiii'd to the Rock, was all fili'd up with the large Ear- 
then Pots, ot which I have given an Account, and with 
fourteen or fi:t=en great Baskets, wliich woUld hold hva 
or fix Bufeels each, where 1 laid up my Stores ot" Pro- 
vifion, efperiallv iiiy Corn, fmnc in the Ear cut olf 
ftiort from tlie Straw, and the other rHbb'd oUt with 
my Hand. 

As for my Wall made, as bcfo'e, witli long Stakes 
or Piles, thofc Pihs grew ali like Trees, and were by 
tills Time grown fo bi^, and Iprcad lb very much, 
liiat there was not the leaft Appearance to aHy one's 
View of any Habitation l>ehind them. 

Near this Dwelling of mine, hUt a little farther with- 
in the Land, and upon lowef Ground, lav liiy two Pie- 
ces of Corn. Ground, Which I kept duly cultivated 
and fow'd, and ^vhich duly yielded me their Harvell in 
ils Seafon ; and whenever 1 had Occalioii i6\- more Corn, 
I had more Land adjoining as fit as that. 

Befidesthis, I had my Country Scat, and I had no\t 
atolerable Plantation there alfo; for lirrt, I had ii^v 
little Bower, as 1 call'd it, whijh I kept in Repair ; 
th^t is to jay, I kept the Hedge which circled it lu, 
CTinllantly fitted up to its ufual Height, the Ladder 
ftatiding always in theintide ; I kept the Trees which 
=1 firil were tio more "than my Stakes, bat were now 
grown very firm and tall ; ( kept them always [o cift> 
that they migh^ Ipread and grow thick and wild, Mid 
"lake the more agreeable Shade, wliich they did eifec 
ttially to my Mind, In the middle of this I had my ^ 
H T«W 



, Google 



(I45) 

Tent always (landing, being a piece ofa Sail fpread over 
Poles let up ibi- tliat Purpole, and which never wanted 
any repair or reneiving ; and under this I had made me 
a Squab or Couch, with the Sltirs of the Creatures I had 
kilPd, and with.other loft Things, and a Blanket laid 
on them, fuch as belong'd to our 5ea-Bedding, which I 
had faved, and a great Watcb-Coat to cuver ine ; and 
here, whenever I liad occafion to be ablent from my 
chief Seat, I took up my Country Habitation. 

Adjoyning to this I had my tnclofures for my Cattle, 
that is to lay, my Goats : And as I had taken an incon- 
ceivable deal of pains to fence and en dole this Ground, 
fb I was fo unealy to fee it kept entire, left the Goats 
Jhould break thro', that I never left off, till with infi- 
nite Labour I bad llucfc c^e^u£(ide of the Hedge (b fiill 
of fniall Stakes, and fone.'rr to one an another, that it was 
rather a Pale than aHedge, and there was fearce room to 
put a Hand thro' between them, which afterwards when 
thofe Stakis grew, as they all did in the next rainy 
Seafon, made the Enclol'ure flrong, like a Wall, indeed 
ftrongerthan any Wall. 

This will teftify for me that T was not idle, and 
that i fpared no Pains to bring to pals whatever ap- 
peai-'d recclTary for my comfortable Support ; for I con- 
fider'd the keeping up a Ereed of tame Creatures thus 
at my Hand, would be a living Magazine of Flefli, 
Milk, Butter and Cheefe, for me, aslong as I Hv'd in the 
Place, if it were to be forty Years ; and that keeping 
them in my Reach, depended entirely upon my perlec- 
ting my Enclofures to fuch a degree, that I might be 
Care of keeping them together ; which by this Method 
indeed I fo ettcftually iecured, that when thefe little 
Stakes began to grow, I had planted them fb very thick, 
I was forced to pull Ibnie of them up again. 

In iliis Place alio I had my Grapes groiving, which I 
principally depended on for my Winter Store of RaiUns, 
and which I never iait'd to preferve very carfiilly, as the 
beft and moft agreeable Dainty of my whole Diet ; and 
indeed they were notagreeahleonly, butphyfical, whole- 
Jbine, nom-ilhirg and reftefhing to the laft degree. 

As 

Hooted by Google 



( '47 ) 

As this was alfo about half way between ray other 
Habitation and the Place where i had laid up my Boat, 
1 generally IVay'd and lay bere in my Way thither ; 
for I ufed frequently to vilit my Boat, and I kept alJ 
things about or belonging to her in very goEid Order ; 
fometinies I went out in her to divert my felf, but no 
more hazardous Voyages wculd I go, nor fcarce ever 
above a Stone's Caft or two i'rom the Shore, I was fo ap- 
prebenfive of being hurried out of my Knowledge a- 
gain by the Currents, or Winds, or any other Accident : 
But now I come to a new Scene of my Life, 

It happen'd one Day about Noon, going towards my 
Boat, I was exceedingly furpii'd with the Print ot a 
Man's naked Foot on the Shore, which was very plain 
Jo be leen in the Sand : J Hood liie one Thundtr-lltu:k-, 
or as if I had feen anA pparition; 1 lillen'd, I look'd round 
me, 1 could hear nothing, nor fee any thing ; I ivent 
up to a riiing Ground to look farther ; I (vent up the 
Shore, and down the Shore, but it was all one, I could 
fee no other Impreflion but that one, I went to it again 
to lee if there were any more, and to oblcrve if it might 
not be my Fancy ; but there was no Room for that, tot 
there was exiUly the very Print of a Foot, Toes, 
Heel, and every Part of a Foot ; how it came thither 
I knew not, nor could iir the lead imaging But after 
innumerable fluttering Thoughts, like a Man perteAly 
confufed and out of my felf, I cams home to my Forti- 
fication, not feeling , as we fay, the Ground I went on, 
but terrify'd to the lafl ■ degree, looking behind me at 
every two or three Steps, mi.laking every Buih and 
Tree, and fancying every Stump at a diilance to be a 
Man ; nor is it polUblc to defi;ribe bow many varous 
Shapes afrighted Imagination reprefented things to nie 
in ; how many wild Ideas were fo:m'd every Moment 
in my Fancy, and what flrange unaccountable Whimfies 
came into tny Thoughts by the Way. 

When I came to my Catlle, for lb I think I cali'd it 
ever after this, I fled into it like one pertued ; whe- 
ther I went over by the Ladder, as firft contriv'd, or 
went in at tbe Hole in the Rock, whicli I cali'd a Door, 
icannot. remember; for never flighted Hare J)ed to 
H s Cover, 



iy Google 



( mO 

■Cover, or Vox to Earth, with more Terror cf M'nd 
.ihan I to this Retreat. 

X (lept none that Night ; the farther I was fromth; 
Occalion of my Fright, the greater my Apprehcniions 
*vere ; which is (bniething contrary to the nature of 
iiich things, and elpecially to the ulual Praftiee of all 
Creatures in Fear: But I was lb eniharrafs'd with my 
own frighctiil Ideas of the Thing, that I fbrm'd nothing 
Ihic dii'mal Imaginations to my k]i', even tho' I was now 
,s great way offic. Sometinieslfancy'd it nm!l he the 
Devil; and Realbnjoin'd in with me upon this 5iippo- 
iition : For how (hoald any othertliing in human Shape 
come into the Place? Wliere wasthe Vefle) that brought 
.them .^ What Marks was there ot any other Footlleps P 
And how was it poflibic a Man fliould come there ? 
But then to -think that Satan fliculd take human Shape 
■spon him in liich a Place where there could be no man- 
ner of Occafion for it, but to leave the Print of his 
Foot behind him, and that even for no Furpofe too 
(for-he could not be fure I ihould fee it ) this was an 
Amulement the other Way ; 1 confider'd that the Devi! 
.imght have tcund out Abundance of other Ways to have 
.tcrrify'd me, than this of -the fingle Print of a Foot, 
That as I lived <niite on the otherfide of the Idand, 
■he would never have been lb timpie to leave a Mark in 
,a Place where it was ten Thouliind to One whether 
I (hoiild ever fee it or not, and in the Sand too, which 
■the firft Surge of the Sea upon a high Wind would have 
-delac'd entirely : All this lee ni'd inconfitlent with the 
Thing itfclf, and with all Notions we ufually entertain 
,of theSubtilty ofthe Devil. 

Abundance of fuch Things as thefe affifted to argus 
jiie oat of all Apprehenfions oi its b ing the Devil ; 
And I prefently concluded then, that it mufl lie Ibme 
more dangerous Creature, '•/'X' I'hat it niuft be foms 
«f the Savages of the main Land over-againft me, who 
had wiindered cut to Sea in their cawff, and either 
driven by the Currents, or by contrary Winds, had 
tuade thelfland ; ,and had been on Shore, but were gone 
away .again to Sea, being as loth, perhaps, to haveftsid 
■inthisdefolatelfland, as I would liave' been to have 
.'had them. 



i by Google 



( '4* J 

While cliefe Refleclions wcve rolling upnn my Miti^r 
I was Vv-ry thankml in my Thoughts, tiiat I was lb hap- 
py as not to be tberi'dhouci ac tint Time, oi- that they 
did not lec my Boat, by which they %¥ould hare con- 
cluded that Imne Inhabitants liad been in the Place, anil 
psrbaps have liar^h'd farther ibr me : Thea terrible- 
Thoughts rack'd my Imsgination about their having, 
found my Boat, and that E.iure were I'cople here ; and 
that it lb, i IhouUl ccita'mly have them come sgain in 
greater NumI>erSj and devour m? ; that ifii (hijuM hap' 
pjn fo I'll It they Jhou'd not find m=, yet the) rtouid> 
Jind my Eni.loturf, dellroy all my Corn, c^riy aw.iy all 
my Flock of laitie Goats, and I iiiould pniih at Ui\ Tow 
meev Want. 

Thus my Fear liai-.iiVd sll my Rdijiious Hope, all 
that tormsr Conhd'^nceinGodj which was founded up- 
on fu;h wonder 'wl Ejtiitrience as ! h-id had ofhisGoiid- 
nels, now vaniliid ; ;.s if ht tbit bed ii;d me by Mira- 
cle hitherto,, could not iirfcf.vve l^y liis F<,w.'r the fio- 
vilion which he h.id m.ide t^.i- me by hh G-iodnels. ' I 
reproacb'd my ll-'U with my ti.iilni.ls, th.ii \v(1![k1 rot 
fovv any more Corn one Year tlon would jii.l f,-rvc iiu- 
till the next Scafon, as if no Accident cwild intervene 
to prevent my enjoying the Crop that wasiipimilis 
Ground; and this! thought fo jull a Rep root, that I 
relblv'd for the future to have tivoflr three Years 0;-ii. 
bdbre-hand, fo that whatever might come, I mi^ic 
not Verifli tor Want of Bread. 

How ftrange a Chequer -Work of Providence is the 
Life ot Man I and by what rccvet diffe/ing Springs are 
the AlFeaions hurried about, as differing Circumllances 
prefent ! To Day we love what to Morrow we hate ; to 
Day we feek what to Marrow we fiiun ; to Day we de- 
Jire what to Morrow we fear ; 41a}*, even tremble at the- 
Appreh^ons of. This was exemplified in me at this 
Time in the moil lively Mariner imaginable; for i, 
whofe only Affiiftion was, thatlfeem'd IvinUli'd from 
human Society, that I was alone, ciroimlirib'd by the 
huundlefs Ocean, cut off from Mankind, and condenm'd 
to what I call filent Life ; that 1 was as one whom Hea- 
ven thought not worthy to be numlv.-r'd among the Liv- 
ing, or to appear among the reft of his Creatures ; that- 
H 5 to 



.;, Google 



( ijo) 



to iuve feen one of my own Species, wou!d have feem'J 
tome a llaifing me troin Dcatli to Life, and the greateit 
JJIelfiiig tliat Heaven iclelf, neitt to the lupreme blefling 
of Salvation, cculd beftow ; I (ay, that I Jbould now 
tremble at the very Apprebenfions of leeing a Man, and 
was ready to Jink into the Ground at but the Shadow, or 
Jilenf Appearance of a Man's having fet his Foot on 
the I£l.ind. 

Such 15 the uneven State of Human Life 5 and it af- 
forded me a great iii:in> curious Speculations aftervsards, 
when I had a little recovered my firft Surpriie ; I 
coniidered that this was the Station of Life, the infi- 
nttdy ivife and good Providence of God had determin'd 
for me ; that as I could not foreiee what the Ends of 
Dis'ine V> ifdom might be in all this, fo I was not to 
difpute his Sovereignty, who, as I was his Creature, had 
an undoubted Kight by Creation, to govern and dif. 
pofeofms ahfolutcly as he thought iit ; and who, as I 
was a Crealu/e who had offended him, had likevtife 
a judi:ial Right to condemn me to what Tunifh- 
ment he thought fit ; and that it was my Part to fubmic 
to tx;ar his Indignation, becaufe I had linn'd agalnll 
him. 

I then refierfted, that God, who was not only Righ- 
teous but Omnipotent, as he had thought fit thus to 
puniih and afJiift me, Co he was able to deliver me ; 
that if he did not think fit to do it, 'twas my unquefti- 
on'd Diityto refign niyfelf abfolute and entirely to his 
Will: And on the other hand, it was my Dutyalfoto 
hope ill him, pray to him, and quietly to attend the 
Diftates and Direftions of bis daily Providence, 

Thefe Thoughts took me up many Hours, Days, 
nay, I may fay. Weeks and Months ; and one particu- 
lar EfRift of my Cogitations on this Occafion, I cannot 
omit, v/^. One Morning early, lying in my Bed, and 
fiil'd with Thoughts about my Danger from the Ap- 
pearance of Savages, I found it diieompos'd me very 
much ; upon which thofc Words of the Scripture came 
into my Thoughts, Call upin me in the Day njTmibk, 
andImB dtUvsr, and tbsu jhalt ^l.rify me. 

Upon this, rifiog chearfuUy out of my Bed, my 

Heart wat not only comfoitedj but I was guided and 

cncouiag- 



( IJI ) 

encouraged to pray earneftlv to God for DeHvcraiics ; 
When I had done praying, 1 took up my fiible, and 
opsningk to read, the iirft Worts that prelentcd to 
me, were, If^ait en the Zm!, auii be ef ii>ad C'j^er, and 
bt Jkall /frewlben thy Heart; wait, I fay, en the Ltrd. 
It is impofGble to exprefs the Comrort this gave me. 
and in return, I thankliilly laid down the Book, and was 
no itioi-e fad, at leaft, not on that Occaiion. 

In the Middle ofthefe Cogitations, Apprehenlions, 
and Refieiftions, it came into my Thougtits one Day. 
that all thb might be a meer Chinierea of my owl), 
and that this Foot, might be the Print of my own 
Foot, wheji 1 came on Shore from my Boat ; This 
cheac'd me up a little too, and I began to perfwade my 
I'elf ic was all a Delufion ; that it was nothing eli'e but 
my own Foot j and why might not I come that Way 
from the Boat, as ivell as I was going that Way to 
the Boat? Again, I confidcr'd aifo that I could by no 
Means tell for certain where I had trod, and where £ 
liad not ; and that if at laft this was oily the Print of 
my own Foot, I had plaj'd the l*ari of thofe Foo!^ 
who drive to make Stories of Speftres and Appari- 
tions, and then are themfelres frighted at them more 
than any Body elfe. 

Now I began to take Courage, and to peep abroad 
again; fori had not tlirr'd out of my Cjftle for three 
Days and Nights ; fo that I began to ftarve for Provi- 
fion ; for I had little or nothing within Doors, but fome 
Barley Cakfs and Water- Then I knew that my Goats 
wanted to be milk'd too, wliich ufually was my Even- 
ing Diverfion ; and the poor Creatures were in great 
Pain and Inconvenience for want of it ; and indeed it 
almoft fpoil'd Ibme of them, and almoft dry'd up their 
Milk. ^ 

Heartning my felf therefore with the Belief that this 
was nothing but the Print of one of my own Feet, 
fand fo I might be truly laid to ftart at my own Sha- 
dow; I began to go abroad again, and went to my Coun- 
try-Houfe to milk mj' Flock ; but to fee with what Fear 
I went forward, how often I look'd behind me, how t 
was ready every now and then, to lay down my Baf- 
iet, and run for my Life, it would ba-ve made any on* 
H. 4. h»ve 



.Google 



}iave tliouglit I '.vas haunted vyitSi an evil Confcience, or 
^liat I had been JatcSy moft terribly frighted; and !b 
indeed 1 had. , 

However, as 1 went down thus two or three Days, 
^nd having I'een nothing, I began to be a little bolder, 
and tij think there was really ncthirg in it but my own 
lmJi;iracJcr; but I ciiuld not pevfwade my felt tully of 
fhisf till 1 Jhould go down to the Shore again, and lee. 
this Print of a Foot, and mearure it by Hij' own, and 
fee if thL're was any ^imiliti;de or Fitneis, that I mip,ht 
fieaifiircdit was my own Foot: But, when 1 came to. 
the Place firft, it appear'd evidently to me, that when 
1 laid up my Boat, 1 could not poiTibly he on Shore a,ny 
where thereabout: Secondly, when 1 cnnieto meafuru 
the Karli with my own Fcot, I lound my Foot not. lb, 
Ivirge by a great rfeal ; both thefe things ftil'd my Head 
Mtitii new imagiiiarions, and gave me the Vapturs. a- 
gsjn to the hii;liert degree ; to t'iut I ihook with CoM^ 
Ukeonen-an Agus, andt went Home ag^in. lill'd with 
tjie belief that lonie Man or Wen had been on Shore, 
there; or, in fiiort, thst the Jflrind was inhabited, and 
} might be iuvpvi?;d befbre I was aware ; and what 
Courle to tiike for my iecuuty, I knew not.. 

O what f idiculous Relblutions Men take, when pofr 
fcrs'd -with Fear ! it depvives.them of the tJfe of thole 
Means which Rcafon offers (or their Relief. The firft. 
thing I propofed to my I'elf was, to throw down my 
Enclcfures, and turn all my tame Ca.tte'1 wild into tlie 
Woods, that the Enemy might not find them, and then 
frsquent thelfLind in frofpeft of the fame, or the like 
Eocity ; then to the fimple thing^of digging up my two 
Corn-Fields, that tliey might not find lu?n a Grain 
thei-e, and ft ill be prompted to frequent the Ifland ;. 
then to demoliili my Bower and Tent, that they might, 
rot fee any Veftiges of Habitation, and be prompted to 
lonk liirther, in order to find cut the Perlbns inha- 
biting. 

Thefe were the Fuhjeft of the firft Night's Cogitation^ 
after I was come home again, while tlie Apprehenfi: 
ons which had fo over run my Mind were Irefli upon 
me, and my Head v^-as full ot Vapours, as above. 
Thiis Fear of Danger is ten thouland limes more terrify-. 



, Google 



( 15-3 ) 

ing than Danger it felrj when apparent to the Eyes ; a-nd 
Wefind ths Buiden of Anxiety greater hy murhjtb-in 
the Evil which we are anxious about ; but, ivlii;h was 
worle than all this, I had not that Reliet in this Trouble 
from the Reiignation I uled to praftilej that I hoped to 
have. I look'd, I thought, like Sau'-, who comphin'd 
not only that the P/ij7,^(i«sj were upon him, but th.it 
God had forfaken him; fori did not noiv take due wa>» 
to compofe my Mind, by crying to God in my Diilreisj 
and refling upon his Providence, as 1 had done beforcj 
for my Defence and Deliverance ; which if I had done, 
1 had, at leall, Ijeen more cheer ill ly liipported under 
this new Surprise, and perhaps carried through it with 
more Refolution. 

This Confiifion of my Thoughts k^'pr me waking ?ll 
Night; but in the Morning I tell afleep, and hrtving, 
by the Aiimfi-msnt of my Mind, been as it were tired , 
and i]iy Spiiits exhiiifted, I (lept very Ibundlv, and 
wali'd much better compos'd th.in I had eve;- b^en be- 
fore : And.TOW I begin to think ledattly ; and upon- 
the utmoft Debate with my felt", I concluded, That this 
Ifland, which was fo exceeding plealant, li-isitiul, and 
rio farther from the main Land than as I had leen, was 
not fo entirely abandon'd as 1 might imagine : That al- 
tho' there were no iiated Inhabitants who liv'd on the 
Spot ; yet that there might ibmetimes corns Boatj olf " 
froni the Shore, who either with Dtfian, or perhaps- 
never, but when they were driven by crols Winds, miglit 
come to this Place. 

That I had liv'd here i$ Years now, and had not mes 
with the leaft Shadow or Figure of any People before; 
and that if at any Time they Ihould be driven h^re, it 
was probable they went away agsin as fot^n as ever they 
could, feeing they had never thought Jit lo dx there 
upon any Occafion, to this rime- 
That ths nioft I could fug^ll any Danger from, was, 
from any fuch cafiial accidental Landing of flvagnling. 
People from the Main, who, as it was likely it they 
were driven hither, were here againft their Wills; lo 
they niade no ftay here, but went off again with all 
polTible Speed, feldom Haying one Night on Shore, left 
they ftiould not have tlie Help of the Tides, and D^y. 



( 154 ) 

(rglit back again ; and that therefore I had nothing tti 
do but to coiifider ot foiiie faie Retreat, in Caie 1 Ihould 
iee atij' Savages land upon the Spot. 

Now I began forely to repent, ihat I had dug my 
Cave fo large, as ro bring a Door through again, wiiicb 
Door, as I taidj came cut beyond where my Yortifica- 
tionjoyn'd to the Rock: Upon maturely conlldering 
this therefore, I refolv'd to draw me a fecond Fortifica- 
tion, in the fame Manner of a Semicircle, at a Diltance 
from my Wall, juft where I had planted a double Row 
of Trees about twelve Years beiure, of which I made 
mention : Thele Tress having been planted lb thick be- 
fore, there wanted but a few files lo be driven between 
tbem, that they ftoaid be thicker, and ftronger, and 
mv Wall would be foon finifli'd. 

So thit I had now a double Wall, and my outer Wall 
Was thiekned with Pieces of Timber, old Cables, and 
every thing I could think ot to make it ftrong ; having 
in it feven little Holes, about as big as I might put my 
Arm out at. In the Inlide of this I thickned my Wall 
to abcut tdn Foot thick, with continually bringing 
Earth out of my Cave, and laying it at the Foot ol the 
Wall, and walking Upon it ■, and through the feven 
Holes, I contriv'd to plant ibe Mufquets, of which I 
took Notice, that I got feven on Shore out ol'the Ship ; 
thefe, 1 fky^ 1 planted like my Cannon, and fitted theni 
into Fraihes that held them like a Carriage, that fo I 
tould fire all the feven Guns in two Minutes timet 
This Wall 1 was manj- a Weary Month a finifliirg, and 
yet never thought my felf life till it was done. 

When this was done, 1 ftuck all the Ground without 
iny Wall, for a great Way every way, as full with Stakes 
or Sticks oftheOj'Jer-like Wood, Which I found fo apt 
to grow, as they cotild well fland; infomuch, that I be- 
lieve I ifiigbt fet in near twenty thoufand of them, leav- 
ing a pretty large Space between them and my Wall, 
that 1 might have Room to fee an Enemy, and they 
might baVe no Shelter from the young Trees, if they at* 
tempted to approach my outer Wall. 

Thfts in two Years time I had a thick Grove ; and in 
five or fit Years time I had a Wood before my Dwel- 
ling, grown lb mocftrous thick and ftrong, that it was 
iudeed . 



indeed perfeftly impafl'able ; and no Man, of what kinl 
Toever, would ever iinaginu thit there was any thinft 
beyond it, much lefs a Habitation : As for the Way' 
which I propofed to my felfto goin and out, [for I left 
no Avenue)it wasby fetting two Ladders; one to a ParC 
of the Rock which was low, and then broke in, and left 
room to place another Ladder upon that ; fo when the 
two Ladders were taken down, ro Man living could 
come down to me without mifchieving himfclf ; and if 
they had come down, they were ftill on the Outlide of 
my outer Wall. 

Thus I took all the Meafures human Prudence could 
fugged for my own Prefcrvation i and it will bee feen at 
length, that they were not altogether without jufl Rea- 
fon ; though I lorei'aw nothing at that time, more tliaiv 
my meer Fear fiiggefted to me. 

While this was doing, I was nat altcgether carelef* 
of my other Affairs ; for I had a great ConKrn npo» 
me for my Httle Herd of Goats ; they were not only a 
prelent Supply to me upon every Occafion, and began 
to be fuifieient to ine, without the Expente of Powder 
and Shot, hut alfo abated the Fatigue oi'my Hunting aP- 
ler the wild ones ; and I was loth to lofe the Advan- 
tage of ihem, and to have them all to nur!e up ever 
ag^iii. 

To this Purpofe, after long Confideration, I couIdE 
think of but two Ways to prelerve them; one was to- 
find another convenient Place to dig a Cave under 
Ground, and to drive them into it every Nightj and 
the othsr was to enclofe two or three little Bits of 
Land, remote from or^e another, and as much conceal'd 
as I could, where I might keep about half a doien ycung 
Coats in each Place ; fo that if any Difafter happen'd 
to the Flock in general, I might be able to raife thetn 
again with little Trouble and Time: And this, tho* ic 
would require a great deal of Time and LalxJur, I 
thought was the moft rational Defign. 

Accordingly, I fpent foinc Time to find OKt the moft 
retired Partsotihe Ifland; andl pitch'd upon one which 
was as private indeed as my Heart could wiih ; for ie 
was a little damp Piece ol Ground in the middle of the 
hcUov* and thick Woods, where, as ift ob&Fv'd, 1 A- 



Goo^Ie 



( ';« ): 

moft loft my fclf once before, endeavouring to corns 
back tlijt way from the Eaftern Van ot tlie Wand : 
Here 1 found a clear Piece of Land near three Acres, 
lb Turromided witli Woods, that ic was almofb an En- 
ciofure by Nature, at leaft it did not want, near io mu:h 
Labour to nialie it fo, as the other Pieces oi'Ground I 
had wovk'd fo hard at. 

I immediately went to wcrk with this Piece of 
Ground, and in lels than a M.^nth's time, I had lb 
fenced it round, that my Flock or Herd, callit wTiich 
you pleafe, who were not fo wild now as at lirft they 
might be fuppofcd to be, were well enough fecured in 
if. So without any farther Delay, 1 removed ten She- 
Qoats and tsvo He Goats to this Piece ; and when they 
were there, I continued to perfeft the Fence till I had 
made it as lecure as the other, which, however, I did 
jt more Leifure, and it took me up more Time by a 
great deal. 

All this Labouj; I wa^ at the Expence oF, purely fronj 
my Apprehenli- ns on the Account of the Print of a 
Man's Foot which [ had feen ; for as yet I never faw 
any human Creature come near the Ifland, and I had 
now iiv'd two Years under thefe Ureafinefles, which 
indeed made FS-y Life much lefs.comfortable than it was 
hefbre ; as may we!l be imagin'd by any who know 
i^iiat it is to live in the conllant Snare of/i&^ Fear of 
Man ; and this I muft obferve. with Grief too, that the 
Eilponipofure*f 'my Mind had too great Imprrffions 
alfo upon the reUj^ous Part of my Thoughts i for the 
Dread and Terror cf lal'ina into the Hands of Savages 
and Canibals lay Co uf on my Spirits, that I fcldom found 
my lel/in a due Temper for Application tp my Maker, 
at kaft not with the fedate Calmnefs and Refignatio^i 
of Soul which I was. wont, to dp; I rather pray'd to 
God as upder great Affliftzon and Preffure uf Mind, fur: 
rounded with Danger, and in Expeftation every Night 
(if bting murther'd and devcur'd before Morning ; an^ 
I muij teftfty from my Experience, that a Temper oi" 
1-eace, thanklulnefs, I,pve arid Affeftion, is much the 
)nnre proper Frame tor Prayer than that o( Terror and 
Difcompofure; and that under the Drqad of Mifchief 
impending, a Man is no m,ore fit for a comforting Per.- 
. * fonn^nce. 



Google 



(■57) 

fDrmaiiceoftlie Duty of praying toGod, tlian heisfor 
Repentance on a iick-Bed : for theie D i fen mpo lures 
atfeft the Mindas.llie otliersdo the Body; and the-Dif- 
compofure of the Mind mull ncceiTarily be as great a 
Dilability as that of the Body, and much greater, pray- 
ing to God being properly an Aft of the Mindj not of 
the Body. 

BtK to go on ; After I had thus Tecur'd one Part of 
my little living Stock, I went about the whole Ifland, 
learching for another private Place, to make fueh an- 
other Depoiit ; when wandring more to the Weft Point 
of the Ifland than I had ever done yet, and looking ouf 
to Sea, I thought 1 faw a Boat upon the Sea, at a great 
Diftance,! had found a Perfpeftive-Glafs, or two, in 
one of the Seamen's Cheils, which I fav'd out of pur 
Sliip ; but I had it not about me, and this was (b re- 
mote, that I could not tell what to jnake of it, though 
I look'd at it .till my Eyes were not.able to hold to look 
any longer; whether it was a Boat, or not, 1 do not 
kuow ; but as I defcended from the Hill, I could fee no 
more of it, fo I gave it over ; only I reiblv'd to gn no 
more out without a Perlpeiftive-Glafs in mv Pocket- 
When I was come down the Hill, to the End ofthe 
liland, where indeed! had never been before, I was 
prefently convinc'd, that the feeing the Print of a Man's 
Foot, was noCliich a ftrange thing in the Ifland, as I 
imagin'd ; and but that it w*s a fpecial Providence 
that I was caft upon the Side of the lOand, where the 
Savages never came, I flwuld eafily hs*'e known, that 
nothing was m.ore frequent than for the Cannes from tha 
Main, when they liappen'd to be a Httle too far nut at 
Sea, to fiioot over to that. Side of the Ifland for Har- 
bour; likewife as they often met, and fought in their 
Canoes, tlio VidVgrsliavifig taken any Prifoners, would 
bring them over to this Shore, where, according to their 
dreadful Cuftonis, being all Canibals, they would kilT 
and eat them : Of which hereafter. 

When I was come d6wn tlfc Hill to the Shore, as T 
f^id above, being the S. W. Point, of the [tland, I was. 
perfealy confounded and amaz'd ; not is it p-flihle for. 
me toexprefs the Horror ol my Mind, at feeing the 
£liore Ipread with Skulis, Hands, Feet, and other Bones 



, Google 



( 158) 



oF human Bodies ; and parriculaily I obferv'd a Vhix 
wliere there li.id been a. Fire made, and a Circle dug in 
the Earth, like a Cock-pit, where it is fuppofed the 
Savage Wretches had fat down to their inhuman Feail- 
ingsupon the Bodies of their Fellow-Creatures. 

I was lb ailonilh'd with the Sight of thefe Things, 
that I entertain'd no Notions of any Danger to my ielf 
from it, for a longe while; all my Apprehenfions were 
buried in the Thoughts offifch a Pitch of inhuman, 
helliJh Brutality, and the Hoii-'or of the Degeneracy of 
human Nature ; which tJio' I bad heard of often, yet I 
never had lb near a View of before ; in ftiort, I turned 
away my Face from the horrid Speftacle; my Stomach 
grew fi;k, and I was juft at the Point of Fainting, when 
Nature difcharg'd the Diforder from my Stomach ; 
and having vomited with an uncommon Violence, I 
was a little relieved ; but could not bear to flay in the 
Place a Moment; fo I got nie up the Hill again, with 
all the Speed I could, and walk'd on towards my own 
Habitation, 

When 1 came a liltlecut ot that Part of the Ifiand, 
I flood fliil a while as amai'd ; and then recovering 
niyfelf, I look'd up with the utmofi Affeftion of my 
Soul, and with a Flood of Tears in my Eyes, gave 
God Thanks that had call my firft Lot in a Pan ol ilic 
World, where I was diftinguiihed from fUch dreadful 
Creatures as tbefe ; and that tho' I had efteem'd my 
prefent Condition very iriferable, had yet given me fo 
many Comforts in it, that I had ftill more to give 
Thanks for, than to complain of; and this above all, 
that I had, even in this miferable Condition, been 
tfoniibrted with the Knowledge of himfelf, and il>e 
Hopeof hisBleffing, which was a Felicity more than 
fufficiently equivalent to all the Mifery ivhich I bad 
fuffer'd, or could fuffer. 

In this Frame of Thankfulnefs, I went Home to my 
Cflftle, and began to be much ea/ier noWj as to the Safe- 
ty of my Circumftances, than ever I was before ; for 
I obferv'd that thefe Wretches never came to this 
Wand in fearch of what they could get; perhaps not 
feeking, not wanting, or not expeifling any thing here ; 
ttiid baying (jfcen, no doubt, been up in the cover'd 
woody 



( '59) 

woody Part of it, without finding any tiling to tlietr 
Purpofe ; I knew I had been here now almolt eighteen 
Years, and never faw the leaft Footfteps of human 
Creature there before j and I might \k here eighteen 
more as entirely conceal'd as I was now, if [ did not 
difeover my felf to them, which I had no manner of 
Occafion to do, it being my only Biiiineis to keep my 
felf entirely conceal'd where I was, unlefs I found a 
better fort of Creatures than Cambals to make my felf 
known to. 

Yet I ctitertain'd fuch an Ahhorrenceof the favag« 
Wretches that I have been fpeaking of, and of the 
wretched inhuman Cuftom of their devouring and cat. 
ing one another up, that I continued penfive and lad, 
and kept clofe within my own Circle for almoft two 
Years after this : When I fay my own Circle, I mean 
by it, my three Plantations, vi^. my Caftle, my Coun- 
try-Seat, which I call'd my Bower, and _my Endofure 
in the Woodsj nor did I look after this for any other 
Ufe than as an Inclofure for my Goats ; for the Avcr- 
fion which Nature gave me to thefe helliih Wretches, 
was fu;h, that I was fearful of feeing them, as of feeing 
the Devil himfelf ; nor did I fo much as go to look af- 
ter my Boat in all this Time; but began rather to chinle 
of making nie another ; lor 1 could not think of ever 
making any more Attempts to bring the ether Boat 
»ound the Ifland tome, leil I ihould meet with fome 
of thefe Creatures ac Sea, in which, if I had happen'd 
to have fallen into their Hands, I knew what wouU 
have been my Lot, 

Time however, and the Satisfaiftion I had, that t 
was in no Danger of being difcover'd by thefe FeoplCj 
began to wear off my Uneafinefs about them; and I be* 
gan to live juft in the lame compos'd Manner as tie- 
tore ; onl^ with this Difference, that I us'd more Cau- 
tion, and kept my Eyes more about me than I did be- 
fore, left I Ihould happen to be leen by anj* of them ; 
and particularly 1 was more cautious of firing my Gun, 
left any of them on the I (land, fhould happen to hear 
il ', and it was therefore a very good Providence to 
me, that I had furniih'd my felf with a tame Breed 
vfGoatE, that I needed not bunt any more about the 
^ Woodt, 



,Sle 



r 



Woods, or flioot at 'em; and if I didcatcli any of 'etn 
after this, it was by Traps and Snares, as I had done 
before ; fo that for two Years after cbisj i believe 1 ne- 
ver fir'd my Gun once off; tlio' I never went out with- 
out it ; and which was more, as I had fav'd three Pifiols 
out of the Ship, I ahva>*s carried 'em out with ms, or 
at leaft two of them, lUcking them in my Goat-Jkin 
Belt ; i alfo furbilh'd up o\.\s oithe great Cutlaflies, that 
I had 'out of the Ship, and made me a Belt to put it on 
alfo ; fb that I was now a moll formidable Fellow to 
look at, when I went abroad if you add to the fortiier 
Defcription of my felf, the Particular of t^vo Piftols, 
and a great broad Sword hanging at my Side in a Belt, 
but without a Scabbard. 

Things going on thus, as I have faid, for fome Tims, 
I feem'd, excepting thele Cautions, to be reduc'd to my 
former calm tedate way of Living, all thefe Things 
tended to Ihewingme more and more how far my Con- 
dition was from being milerable, compared to liima o- 
rhers; nay, to many other Particulars of Life, which it 
might have pleafed God to have made my Lot. ItpuC 
me upon reflefling, how little repining there would bs 
among Mankind, atany Condition of Life, if People 
wouldrather compare their Condition with thofe that 
are worfe, in order to be thankful, than be always com- 
paring them with thofe which are better to alKll: their 
Muraiurings and Complainings. 

As in my prefeiit Condition there were not really 
many Things which I wanted ; fo indeed I thought that 
the Frights I had been in about thefe Savage Wretches 
and the Concern I had been in for my own Prefervati- 
or, had taken off the Edge of my Invention for my 
OWB Conveniences •, and I had dropt a good Defign, 
which I had once bent my Thoughts upon; and that 
was to try if [ could not make fome a'i my Barley 
into Malt, artd then try to brew my fetf fome Beer : 
This W3S really a whimilcal Thought, and I reproved 
my felf often for the Simplicity of it; for I prefently 
faw there would b; the Want of feveral Things n^cefta' 
ry to tiie making my Beer, that it would be inipoflibls 
for me to fupply ; As Firft, Casi« to prelei-ve it in, 
■which was a Thing that, as 1 have oblei-v'd shrcady, 

.1.;, Google 



I could never conipals : no, tho' I fpentljiot many Daj-;^ 
but Weeks, nay Months, in attempting it, but to aa 
}iurpele. In the next place, I had no Hops to make it 
keep, no Yeaft to make it work, no Copper or Kettle 
to make it, boil ; and jet all thefe Things intetven'd, 
I mean the Erigjits and Terrors I was in about the Sa- 
vages, 1 had undert.iken it, and perhaps brought it to 
pals too ; for I fcldom gave any Thing over without 
aceompliftiirg it, when I once had it in my Head enough 
to begin it. 

Ji3ut my Invention now riin quite another Way ; for. 
Night and Day I could think of nothing hut how I 
miglit. dcllroy lome of thefe Monfters in their cruel 
bloody Entertainment, and if pofllble, fave the Viftim 
tbey Ihoujd bring hither to deftroy- It would take up 
a larger Volume than this wliole Work is intended to 
be, to fet down all the Contrivances 1 hatched, or rar 
ther brooded upon in my Thoughts, for the deflr^^ying 
ijiefe Creatures, or at leaft irighting 'em, fo astope- 
vcnt their coming hither any more ; but all was abor- 
tive, nothing could lie polTihle to tske Eftect, unlcls I 
was to be there to do it my felf ;. and wb.at could one 
Man, do. among, them, when perhaps there might be 
twenty or tliir^' of them together, wilJi their Darts, 
or their Bows aad Arrows, witkwhich they, could Ihoot 
as tiue to a Mark, as I could with my Gun ? 

Sometimes I contiiv'd to dig a Hole under the Place 
■where thej made their Fire, and put in five or fix I'ounds 
of Gun-powder, which when they kindled tieir Fire, 
would conlequently take Fire, and blow up all that 
was near it ; but as in the firft place 1 lliould be very. 
Isth to wafte fo much Powder upon 'em, my Store be- 
ing now within tlie Quantity of a Barrel ; fo neither 
could I be Ibre of its going off, at any certain time, 
when it miglit furprize them, and at heft, that it would 
do little more than juft blow the Fire about their Ears 
and fright them, but not fufficient to make them forr 
fake the Place ; fo [ laid it afide, and then propos'd, 
that I would place my fcU in Ambufli, in fome conveni-. 
ent Place, with my three Guns, all double loaded j and 
ID the middle of their bloody Ceremony let fly at 'em, 
when I fljould befute.to kill or woiipd gerhap; 



three 

red by Google 



( "sj ) 

tliree at every (hoot ; and then falling in upon them 
With my three Pillols, and my Sword, I made no doubt 
but that if there were twenty I iHouid kill them all: 
i'his Fancy pleas'd my Thoughts tor fome Weeks, 
and I was Ca full of it, that 1 often dreamt of it ; 
■ad fometimes, tliat I was juft going to let fly at iheni 
in my Sleep. 

I went Icj far with it in my Imagination, that I em- 
phy'd my lelffeveral Days to And out proper PUcesta 
put my leif in Ambulcade, as I laid, to watch for them j 
and I went frequently to the Place ittelfi which was 
now grown more faniiliar to me ; and efpecially while 
toy Mind was thus fill'd \vith Thoughts of Revenge, 
and of a bloody putting twenty or tiiirty of them to 
the Sword, as I may calHt ; but the Horror I had at the 
PJace, and at the Signals of the barbarous Wretchr.s 
^Vouring one another, abat-id my Malice. 

Weil, at length I (bund a Place in the Side of the 
Hill, where i was fatisly'd 1 might fecureiy wait, till 
I ikiv any of their Boats coming, and might then, 
even before they would be ready to come on Shore, 
convey myfelf unfeen into Thickets of Trees, in one 
of which there was a Hollow large enough to conceal 
me entirely ; and where I might lit, and obferve all 
their bloody Doings, and take my fill! J^im at their 
Heads, when they were Co clofe together, as that it 
would be next to impoffible that 1 ftiould mifs my 
Shoot, or that I could fail wounding three or four of 
them at the firft Shuot. 

In this Place then I refolv'd to fix my Defign, and 
accordingly I prepar'd two Muskets, and my ordinary 
Fowling- Piece. The two Muskets I loaded with a 
Brace of Slugs each, and four or five fmsiler Bullets, 
about the Size of Piftol-BuUets ; and the Fowling-Piece 
I loaded with near a Handful of Swan-Shot, of the 
largeft Size ; I alfo loaded my Piftols with ahaut four 
Bullets each, and in this Poflure, well provided with 
Ammunition for a fecond and third Charge, I prepar'd 
myielfformy Expedition. 

■ After I had thus laid the Scheme for my Defign, and 

in my Imagination piJt it in Pradtice, t continually 

nude my Tour every Morning up to the Top of the 

Hillf 



Google 



( '«3 ) 

, Hill, which was from my Caftle, as I call'tl it, about 
three Miles, or more, to fee it' I could obferve any 
Uoats upon the Sea, coming near the Ifland, or ilandinj 
over towards it ; but I began to tire of this hard Du- 
ty, after i had for two or three Months conftantlj* 
kept iny Watch; but came always back without any 
Dilcovery, tliere having not in all that I'ime been the 
leall Appearance, not only on, or near the Shore, 
but not on the whole Oiean, fo far as my Eyes or Glal- 

, fes could reach every Way. 

As long as I kept up my daily Tour to the Hill to 
look out, lb long aifo 1 kept up the Vigour of my Db- 
lign, and my Spirits feem'd to be all the whiie in a fui- 
tabb Frame, for lb outrageous an Execution as the kil- 
ling twenty or thirty naked Savages for an OlTencc 
whicii I had not at all entcr'd into a Difcufion of in my 
I'houghts, any iiirther than my Paflions were at firft 
Jir'd by the Horror I conceiv'd at the unnatural CaC- 
toiii ot the People ofthat Country, who it feems had 
been liiffer'd by Providence, in his wile Difpofition of 
the World, to have no other Guide than that of their 
Own abominable and vitiated Paffions ; and coiifei£uent- 
ly were left, and perhaps had been fo for Ibme Ages, to 
3ft fuch horrid 1 hings, and receive fach dreadful Ciif- 
toms, as nothing but Nature entirely abandon'dofHea- 
ven, and aifted by feme hellifli Degeneracy, could have 
run them into : But now when, as I have faid, I began 
to be weary ot the fruitlefs Excurfion which I had made 
fo long, and lb far, every Morning in vain ; fo my Opi- 
nion of" the Aftionic felf began to alter, and ! began 
with cooler and calmer Thoughts to confider what it 
was 1 was going to engage in ; what Authority or Call I 
had, to pretend to be Judge and Executioner upon 
thefc Men as Criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit 
for lb many Ages to futfer, unjiuniili'd, to go on, and 
to be as it were, the Executioners of his JudgmentJ, 
upon another : Alfo how far thefe People were Offen- 
ders againfl me, and what Right had [ to engage in the 
Qijarre! ofthat Blood, which rhey iTied promilcuouily 
one upon another : I debated this very often with my 
felf thus, Hovvdal know what God himfelf Judges in 



..Google 



< 172 > 



this particular CaTe? It is certain thefo People do nos 
commit this as a Crime, it is not agaitift tlieir own 
Confcieiices reprovir.g, or their l^i^iit reproaching tliem. 
They do not know it to be an OfiiBCi, and th<.-n com. 
niit it in defiance of divine Juiticc, us we do in almoll 
all tiie Sins we commit. They think it no more a Crims 
to kill a Captive taken in War, than we do Co kill an 
Ox; nor to eat.human IrSelh, than we do to eat Miit- 

When T ijad coniider'd thlsa little, it foUow'd neetllii- 
rily, tliu I was-certaiiily in the Wrong in it ; that th:l-' 
People were not Murderersiii :he Senle that 1 hadb;. 
fore condeiwn'd tbem in my ThougVits ; any more than 
thofe Chrillians were Murderers, who oiten put to 
Death the Priftmers taken in Battle, or more iVeqiientlj-, 
upon many OccailuiiK, put whole Troops of Mentu ths 
Sword, without giving Quarter, tho' thsy threw down 
their Arms and I'uhniitted. 

In tlie next place it oceur'd to me, that albeit the. 
Ufage tlieygave one another was thus bruitiih and in- 
human ; >ei it was really nothing to me: Thde People: 
had done me no Injuiy ; That it' they attempted me, or 
I law it neceflary tor my immediate rrcl'ervation to fall 
upon them, ibmething migiit be laid for it ; but that 
I was yet out of their Power, and they had really no 
Knowledg of me, and confequently no Deiign upon me ; 
and therefore it could not be juft for me to fall upon 
them. Thatthis would juftify the Conduft of the Spa- 
niards in all their Barbarities praftis*!! in America, where 
they deftrpy'd Millions of thefe People, who, however 
they were idolaters and Barbarians, and had feveral 
bloody and barbarous Kites in their CuAoms, fuch as 
facrificiiig human Bodies to their Idols, were yet, as to 
tlie SpamarJs, very innocent People ; and that the 
rooting 'em out of the Country, is fpoken of with the 
utmoft Abhoranceand Deteftation, by even ihz Spani- 
ards themlelves, at this Time, and by al) other ChriiU- 
anNatioTisof Europe, as a mere Butchery, a bloody 
and unnatural piece of Cruelty, unjuftifiable either to 
God or Man ; and fuch, as for which the very Name 
oia.S/ani(ird\% reckon'd to be frightiitl and terrible toi. 
all People- of Humanity, or of Cliriftian Companion ; 
As 



..Google 



( 173 ) 



As if the Kingdom oi' Spain were particularly eminent 
fertile ProdUiS of a Race of Men, who were without 
Principles of Tendernefs, or the common Bowels of 
Pity to the Miferable, which is reekon'd to he a Mark 
of a generous Temper in the Mind. 

1 hele Co iiiid era lions really put me to a Paufe, and 
Wakind of a Full Stop ; and I began by little and Hi tie 
tobe ofTof my Defign, and to condud?, I had take» 
ivrong Meafures in my Relblutions to attack the Sava- 
ges ; that it was not my Bufincfs to meddle with 'em, 
unlels they firil attack'd me, and this it was my Bufi- 
n;ls, if polTtblej to prevent ; but that if I were difcc- 
ver'd, and attack'd, then I knew mv Doty. 

On ihcotherhandj I argu'd with my TeKi That this 
really was the Way not to deliver my felf, but entirely 
to ruin and deftroy my felf; for unlefs 1 was fure to 
litll every one that not only (liould be on Shore at that 
Time, but that fliould ever come on Shore aiterwai-ds, 
il but one of them efcap'd, to teil their Country-Peo- 
ple what had happeu'd, they would come over again by 
I'lioufands to revenge the Death of their Fellows and 
I fljould only bring upon my felf a certain IX-firuc- 
lion, which at nreient I had no manner ot Occalioii 
Hr. 

Upon the Whole I concluded, that neither in Princi. 
pies nor in Policy I ought one Way or other to concern 
my felf in this Affiir. That my Bufinels was by all 
pcffihls means to conceal my felf Irom them, and not 
to leave the trail Signal to themtoguefs by, that tliere 
«ere any living Creatures upon the Idand ; I mean of 
human Shape 

■ Religion join'd in with this Prudential, and [ was 
convinc'd now many Ways, that [ was perfeftly out of 
my Duty, when I was laving all my bloody Schemes 
for the Deftruftion of innocent Creatures, I mean inno- 
cent as, me : As to the Crimes they were gailty of to- 
wards one another, I Itad nothing to with tbeiri ; th.'y 
wtre National Puniiliments to make a juft Retribution 
for National Offi-*n;es; and to bring publick Judgments 
Upon thole who offend in a publick Manner, by fuch 
Ways as beft pleafe him. 



TJiis 

d^red by Google 



( ^66 ) . 



This ippear'tl To clear to me now, that nothing was 
a greater ^atisHidion to me, than tliat 1 had not Iicen 
fttfier'd to do a Thing which I now taw fo much Realbn 
to believe would have been no lels a Sin, than that of 
wilful Murther, ifl had committed it ; and 1 gave moil 
huinhle Thanks on my Knees to God, that had thus 
deliver'd me from Blood-guikinefs ; beleeching him Co 
grant mc the Proteiftion of his Providence, that I 
might not fall into the Hands of Bafiar/ani; or that I 
might not lay my Hands upon them, unlefs I had a 
more clear Call Irom Heaven to do it, in Defence of 
my own Life. 

In this Difpofition I continu'd for near a Year afcr 
this ; and fo far was I from deiiring an Oecafion for 
falling upon thefe Wretches, that in all that Time i ne- 
ver once went up the Hill to fee whether there were 
any of them in Sight, or to know whether any of them 
had been on Shore there, or not, that I might not he 
tempted to renew any of my Contrivances againil tfaem, 
or be provoked by any Advantage which might prelent 
itfclfto fall upon them; only this I did, 1 went and 
removed my Boat, which 1 had on the other Side the 
liland, and carried it down to the Eaft End of the 
ivholelfland, where I ran it into a little Cove, which 
I found under fome high Rocks, and where 1 knew, by 
rcafon of the Currents, t lie Savages durft not, at leall ■ 
would not come with their Boats, upon any Account 
what foe ver. 

With my Boat I carried away every Thing that I 
had left there belonging to her, tho' not neceifary for 
the bare going thither, vi^. A Maft and Sail, which I 
had made for her, and a Thing like an Anchor, but in- 
deed which could not be calVd cither Anchor or Grap- 
ling; however, it was the bed I could make ofitskind: 
All thefe I remov'd, that there might not ))e the leaft 
Shadovv of any Diicover)', or any Appearance of any 
Boat, or of any human Habitation upon the Wand. 

Belides this, I kept my felf, as I faid, more retired 
than ever, and fcldom went from my Cell, other than 
upon my conftant Employment, iii^. to mik my She- 
Goats, and manage my little Flock in the Wood ; which, 
sa it was quite on the otlier Part of the liland, was 
^uite 



Google 



( i«7) 



quiteoiit of Danger ;■ For certain it is, tliat there fa- 
rage People, who ibmettraes haunted this liland, never 
came ivith any Thoughts of finding any thing here, 
and confequently never wandred oiF from the Coafl; 
and I doubt not, but ■ tbey might have been feveral 
times o» Sliore, after my Apprehenfions of them had 
made me cautions, as well as before; and, indeed, I 
looit'd back with fome Horror upon tlie I'hougbts of 
ivhat my Condition would have been, ii I had chop'd 
upon them, and been dilcovnr'd before that, when naked 
and unarm'd, except with one Gun, and that loaded 
often only with fmall Shot. I walked every where 
peeping, and peiring about the Illand, to fee what I 
could get ; what a burpriie fliould I have been in, if, 
when 1 difcover'd the Print of a Man's Foot, I had in- 
ftead of that (een fifteen or twenty Savages, and found 
them purfuing me, and by the Swiftnefs of their Run- 
ning, no Poflibility of my efcaping them ? 

The Thoughts ofthislbmetimes funk my very Soul 
within me, and diftrefs'd my Mind Co mueli, that I 
could not loon recover it ; to tliink what 1 ihould have 
done, and how I not only iliould not have been able to 
rdld them, but even fliould not have had Pretence of 
Mind enough to do what I might have done; much 
iefs, what now aiter Co much Confideration and Prepa- 
*tation I might be able to do: Indeed, after ferious 
tliinking ot thefe Things, I would he very melancholy, 
and fometimes it would laft a great while ; but I re- 
fulv'dit at laft all into Thankfulnefs to that Providence 
w, ich had deliver'd me from fo many unfeen Dangers, 
and had kept me from thofe Mifchiels which I could 
no way have been the Agent in delivering my felf from ; 
hecaule I had not the Seaft Notion of any fitcb Thing 
depending, or the leaft Suppofition of its being po(- 
fible. 

This renewed a Contemplation, which often had 
come to my Thoughts in former Time, when firfl I 
Iiegiii to fee the merciful Difpofitions of Heaven, in tiie 
Dangers ive run thro' in this Life : How wonderfully 
we are deliver'd, when we know notbing of it. Howf 
^'hen we are in f a Qitania-Ty, as wc call it) a Doubt or 
Helitation, whether to go this Way, or that Way, a 
fecret 



, Google 



( 168) / 

•foCretHint iliall aireft us tliis Way, when we ititendea 
to go that Way ; my, when Senle, our own 'Inclina- 
tion, and perhaps Bulinels lias call'd to go the other 
Way, yet a ftrange Impreflion upon the Mind, from we 
know nut what Springs, and by Wl' Itnow not what' 
Power, ftiall over.rule us to go this Way; and it tlull 
afterwards appear, that had we gone that Way which 
we ftould have gone, and evtn to our Imagination 
ought to have gone, we ihould have been ntin'd aud 
loit : Upon thi^le, and mifny like Reileaions, I after- 
wards made it a certain Rule with me, 'Ihat whenever 
I found thole lecret Hints, or Preflings of my Mind, to 
doing, or not doing any thing chat prelented, or to 
going this Way, or ihat Way, I never fail'd to ol):y 
the fecret Diftate ; tho' I knew no other Reafon for it, 
than that fnch a I'reHure, or fuih a Hint hung upion my 
Mind : 1 could give raaTiy Examples of the Suecels of 
this Conduft in the Cowrie ofniy Life ; but more efpe. 
cially in the latter Part of my inliabiting this unhappy 
Ifiand J befidesmany OccaJions which it is very likely 
I might have taken notice ot; if I had feen with the 
feme Eyes then, that I faw with nnw : But 'tis never 
too late to be wile ; and I cannot hut advile all conli- 
dering Men, whofe Lives are attended with fuch extra, 
ordinary Incidents as mine, or even tho' not lb extra* 
■ordinary, not to flight fuch fccret Intiraations of Prij- 
vidence, let them come from what invifiblelntelUgence 
they will, thatii iiiall not difcufs, and perhaps cannot 
account tor ; but certainly they are a Proof ot the Con- 
verfe of Spirits, and the fecret Communication between 
thofe embudy'd, and thofe oinembody'd ; and fuch a 
Proof as can never be withllood : Of which 1 Ihalfhave 
Gccafion to give fome very remarkable Inftances in the 
Jtemaindcr oi my fuUtary liclidence in tl>is dLlinal 
Place. 

I believe the Reader «f this will not tliink ftr^nge, 
if I confeis that thefe Anxieties, thefe conftant Dangeis 
I liv'd in, and the Concern that was now upon me, 
put an End to all Invention, and to all the Contriv- 
ances-thatl had laid fur my future Accommodations 
a.nd Conveniences. I had the Care of mv Safety ttiorc 
BOW upon my Hands, tkaii that of my Food. I car'd 

. I, Google 



( l«9 ) 



not to drive a Nail, ov chop a Stick of Wood now, for 
fear the Noife I ftiould make fliould be lieard ; mucli 
lets would I five a Gun, for the fame lleafon ; and alijve 
all, I was intolerably nncaiy at making any Fire, left 
the Smoak, which is vifibk at a great Diilance in the 
Day, fliould hetray me ; and for this Rcalbn I remov'd 
that Part of my Bufinels which requir'd Fire, fuch as 
burning of Pots and Pijies, E?f. into my new Apart* 
nient in the Woods ; where, after 1 had been feme 
Time, I (bund, to my unfpeakable ConfoUtion, a mere 
natural Cave in the Earth, which went in a vaft way, 
and where, I dare fay, no Savage, had he been at the 
Mouth ol'it, would be lb hardy as to venture in, nor 
indeed would any Man elfe, but one who, like me, ivant- 
ed nothing Co much as a fafc Retreat. 

Tbe Mouth of this Hollow was at the Bottom of a 
great Rock, where, by mere Accident (I would fay, 
it' I did not fee abundant Reafon to alcribe all fucli things 
now to Providence J 1 was cutting down fbme thick 
Branches of Trees, to make Charcoal ; And beibre I go 
on, I mud obferve the Reaibn of my making this Char- 
coalj which was thus: 

I was afraid of making a Smoak alsiut my Habita- 
tion, as I faid before ; and yet I could not live there 
without baking my Bread, cooking my Meat, Cr. (o I 
v<wntrived to burn fome Wood here, as I had feen done 
in England under Turf, till it became Chark, or dry 
Coal ; and then putting the Fire out, I preferv'd the 
Coal to carry home, and. perform the other Servicirs, 
which Fii'e was wanting for, at home, without Dangec 
of Smoak. 

But this by the by : While I was cutting down fome 
Wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick 
Uranch of low Brufti-wood, or Under-wood, there was 
a kind of hollow Place: I was curious to look into it, 
and getting with DiiKculty into the Mouth of it, I 
f^und it was pretty large, that is to fay, fufficient for 
lie to ftand upright in it, and perhaps another with 
"le ; but I muft conlefs to you, 1 made more hafVe out 
than I did in, when loolcing further into the Place, 
which was perfedly dark, I law two broad ihining Eyes 
°1' fome Creature, whether Devil or Man, I knew not, 
I which 



.;, Google 



( 17°) 



vA'ich twinkled like two Stars, tlie dim Light from the 
Cave's Mouth ihinliig direflly in, and making the Rs- 
ileftioii. 

However, after Ibme Paufe, I recovered my fflf, ajid 
fcegati to call my felf a thottland Fools, and tell my 
ielt, that lie that was afraid to fee the Devil, was not 
iit to live twenty Years in an Idand all alone; and 
that I durft to believe there was nothing in this Cave 
that was move Irightliil than my telf; Upon this, pluc- 
king up my Courage, 1 took up a great t'irebrand, and 
in 1 rulh'd again, with the Stick flaming in my 
Hand : I had not gone three Steps in, but I was ahnoll 
as much frighted as I was before ; for 1 heard a very 
loud Sigh, like that of a Man in Ibme Pain, and it was 
folJow'd hy a broken Noile, as if of Words half ex- 
prel's'd, and then a deep Sigh again : I ftep'd back, and 
was indeed (truck with fuch a Surprize, that it put nie 
into a cold Sweat ; and if I had had a Hat on my Head, 
I will not anfwcr for it, that my Hair might not have 
3ifted it off. But ftill plucking up my Spirits as well 
js I could, and encouraging my lelf a little, with coa- 
fidering that the Power and Prefence of God was e- 
very where, and was able to proteft me ; upon this I 
llep'd forward again, and by tlie Light of the t'ire- 
brand, holding it up a little over my Head, f faw ly- , 
icg on the Ground a mod monllrous frightful old He- 
Goat, juil making his Will, aswefiy, gafping tor Lift, 
.and dying indeed of meer old Age. 

I ftir'd him a little, to fee. if I could get him out, 
and he eifay'd to get up, but was not able to raile hitn- 
felf ; and I thought with my ielf, he might e'en lie 
there ; ibr it he had frighted me i'o, he would certaini)' 
fright any of the Savages, if any of them Ihould be 
f J hardy as to come in there, while he had any Lile 

I was now recover'd from my Surprize, and began 
-to look round me, when I found the Cave was but 
very fmall, that is to fay, it might be about twelve 
.Foot over, but in no manner of ihape, either round ot 
fquare, no Hands having ever b;eii employed in mak- 
ing it, but thofe of meer Nature; I obferv'd alfo, that 
there was a Place ai tlie further Side of it that went in 
furtJjW, 



i by Google 



( 'y ). 

further, but was fo low, that it required me to creep 
upon my Hands and Knees to go into i^ and vvheihcc 
it went I knew Jiot ; i'o having no Candle, I gave it 
over f'ur Ibme time, hut relblved to coiiie again the- 
next Day, provided with Candles, and a Tinder-Bos, 
which I had made of the Lock oi one. of the Musketi, 
with fome Wild-fire in the Pan. 

Accordingly, tlie ncit Day I came provided with 
fiif large Candles of ttiy own making, lor 1 mjde very 
good Candles now ol' Goat's Talluw; and going into 
this low Place, I was obliged to creep upon all Fours, 
as I have iatd, almoft ten Yards ; which, hy the way, 
1 thought was a Venture bold enough, confidering 
that I knew not how far it might go, or what was be- 
yond it ; When 1 was get thro' tlie Strait, I found tlwj 
Roof rofe higher up, I believe near twenty Foot; but 
never was fuch a glorious Sight (een in the llland, I 
dare fay, as it was, to look round the Sides and R.oor 
ofthis Vault or Cave: The Walls jefleaed a hundred 
thoufand Lights to me Irom my two Candles ■, what ic 
was in tite Rock, whether Diamonds, or any other [.re- 
cious Stones, or Gold, which I rather Ihppofcd it to 
be, I knew not. 

The Place I was in, was a moil: delightfuJ Cavity, oc 
Grotto, of its kind, as could be expefted, tho' pertcA. 
iy dark ; the Floor was dry and level, and bad a ibrt 
■of fmall loofe Gravel upon it ; lb that there was no 
naufeous or venomons Creatnre to be feen, neither waj 
there any Damp or Wet on the Sides or Roof: The 
only Difficulty in it was the Entrance, which, however, 
*s it was a place of Security, and luch a Retreat as I 
ivanted, I thought that was a Convenience ; fo that t 
was really rejoiced at the Difcovery, ' and refolved, 
«ithoiit any Delay, to bring fome of thofe things which 
I was mod anxious about, to this Place j particularly, 
■I refolv'd to bring hither my Magaiiue of Powder,and 
all my fp^-e Arms, vi^. Two Fowling- Pieces, ( for I 
had three in all ) and three Masketi, (tor of them 1 had 
eight in all ) lb I kept at my CaHie only five, which 
flood ready mounted, like Pieces oi Cannon, on my 
«iitmoft Fence ; and were ready alfo to take out upon 
*ny Expedition. 

1 2 Upon 



.;, Google 



( '72 ) v 

Upon this Occafion of removing tnj' Ammunition^ 
I was oblig'd to open the Barrel of Powder which I 
took up ouc of the Sea, and which had been wet ; and 
I found that the Water had penetrated about three or 
tour Inches into the Powder on every fide, which ca- 
king and growing hard, had preferved the Infidelikea 
Kernel in a Shell ; iu that 1 had near fixty Founds of 
very good Powder in the Centre of the Cask ; and this 
was an agreeable Dil'covery to me at that time ; fo I 
carried ail away thither, never keeping above two or 
three I'ounds ol Powder with me in my Caille, for 
lear of a Surprize of any kind : I alfo carried thither all 
the Lead I had left for Bullets.. 

I fancied my felf now iike one of the ancient Giants, 
which were faid to live in Caves and Holes in tiie 
RockSj where none could come at them ; for I per- 
fvvaded my felf, whiie I was here, if five hundred 
Savages were to hunt me, they could never find me 
out ; or it they did, they would not venture to attack 

The old Goat, who I found expiring, died in the 
3*3oiith of the Cave, the next Day after 1 made this 
Difcovery; and I found it much eafier to dig a great 
Hole there, and throw him in, and cover him with 
Earth, than to drag him out ; So I interr'd him there, 
to prevent Offence to ray Nofe. 

I was now in my twenty-third Year of Refidenee in 
this IHand, and was fo naturalized to the Place, and 
to the Manner of living, that cculd I have but enjo}'ed 
the Certainty, that no Savages would come to the 
Place to diflutb me, I could have been content to 
have capitulated for fpending the reft of myTime there, 
even to the lail Moment, till I had laid me down and 
died, like the old Goat in the Cave : I had alfo ar- 
riv'd to Ibnie little Diverfionsand Amufements, which 
made the Time pafs more pleafantly with me a great 
deal tlian it did Iwibre ; at firft, I had taught my P^H, 
as I noted before, to fpcak ; and he did it ib familiar- 
ly, and talk'd ib articulately and plain, that it was 
very pleafant to me ; and he lived with me no lel5 
than fix and twenty Years; How long he might Uve 
afierwards, Iktiownof, thg' I know they have a No- 
don 

HosredbyGoOitle 



,|le 



(^73 ) 

tioii ill the Brafih, that they live a hundred Years; 
perhaps Tome of my Pi)l!t may be alive there fttO, calling 
afc^r I'^cr Robiu Oufji to this Day ; I wilh no Eii^lijb- 
man the ill Lu:k to corns there and hear them, but if ha 
did, be would certainly believe it was the Devil. My 
Dog was a very pleafant and loving Companion to me 
for no leis Chan fifteen Years of my Tim;, and tlien 
died ol'iiieer old Age ; as ibr my Cats, they niiiltiply- 
ed, as I have obferved, to that degree, that I was obliged 
to Jhoot leveral of them at firtl, to keep them from de. 
vouring me and all I had ; but at length, when the 
two old ones 1 brought with me were gone, and after 
fome time continually driving them from uia, and let. 
ting tfeem have no Provifion with me, they all ran 
wild into the Woods, except two or three Favourites, 
whicii I kept tame, and whofe Young, when they had 
any, I always drown'd, and chele were part of my 
Pamity : Befides thefe, I ahvays kept two or threa 
Hotifhold Kida about me, which I taught to feed out 
of my Hand ; and ] had alio more Parrots, whieli 
trflk'd pretty well, and would all call Kpi(» Dk/jc, but 
none like myiirfl; nor indeed, did I take the Pains 
with any of them chat I had done with him: I liadahb 
fcveral tame Sea-Fowls, whofe Names I know not, 
which I caught upon the Shore, and cut their 'Wings ; 
and thelittle Stakes which I had planted before my Ca- 
file-Wall, being noiv grown up to a good thick Grove, 
ihefe Fowls all lived among thele low Ti'ees, and bred 
there, which was very agreeable to me; lb that, as t 
laid above, I began to be very well contented with the 
Lite I led, if it might but have been fccured from the 
Uread oi' the Savages. 

But it was otherwife dliefted; and it maynothea- 
niifs for all People who fhall meet with my Story, to 
make this juft Ohfervation from ic, i/i^. How frequdndy, 
in the Coui fe of our Lives, the Evil which in it fclf 
we leek moft to fliun, and which, when we are tallen 
into, is the moil dreadful to us, is ofcentiines the very 
means or door of our Deliverance, by which alone wo 
can be rais'd again from the Affiiftion we are fallen into.- 
I could give many Examples of this in the Courl'e of my 
Unacccuntable Life \ but in nothing was it more parti-, 
I 3 culaily 



Google 



(174)- 

CHlarlv rcma- 'n.iMe than in the Civciimilances of my 
Inil Years oi' tblitarv Rcfidcnce in this Iftand. 

It was now the Mi^nrii ol' December, as I faic! aboy^ ' 
in my twenty-thii'd Year ; and this bein^ the fouthern 
Solftice, for Vi inter 1 cannot call it, was the particular 
Time of my Harveft, and required my heing pretty 
murh abroad in the fields ; when going out pretty . 
early in the Morning, even Ijefore it was thorow Day- 
Jightj I was iiiEprii'd with feeing a Light of foms Fire 
upon tlie Shore, at a diftance trom me, of about two 
M-iles, towardsthe end of'the llland, where I bad oV 
fcrved Ibme Savages had been, as before ; but not on the 
<^ther Side, but to my great Affliiiion, it was on my 
Sideoftheiriand. 

I ivas indeed terribly furpriz'd at the Sigh^ and ftopt 
iliort within my Gro;-e, not daring to go out left I 
might bi liirprii'd j and yet I had no more Peace with- 
in, [rom my Apprehenlions I had, that if theie Savage^ 
in rambling over the Ifland, flioiJd find my Corn 
ftandirg, or cut, or any of my Works and Improve- 
ments, they would immediately conclude, that there 
vere People in the Place, and would then never give 
over till Cliey found me out; In this Extremity I went 
back diredtly to my Callle, pull'd up the Ladder alter 
me, having made all things without look as wild and- 
natural as I could. 

Then I prepared my fell witliin, putting my felf in 
a Pofture of Deienee ; 1 loaded all my Cannon, as X 
caird ihem ; that is lo f^, my Muskets, which were 
mounted upon my new Fortification, and all my Piftols 
and refolv'd to defend my felf to the laft Gafp ; not 
forgetting ferioully to commend my felf to the divine 
Proteiftion, and earreilly to pray to God to deliver me 
out of the Hands of the Barbarians ; and in this Pof- 
ture I conttnu'd about tsvo Homs, but began to be migh- 
ty impatient for Intelligence abroad, for I had fio Spies 
to fend out. 

After fitting a while longer, and niufing what T 
flioulddo in this Calc, I was not able to bear litting in 
Ignorance any longer ; fb letting up my Ladder to the 
fide ol'the Hill, where there was a fiat Place, as I oh- 
fcrved before, and then pulling the Ladder up aftei» 
mej 



C.oog I 



me, IiitiC-upagain, and mounted to iheTop'of tlie I'Jil!; 
and pulling out my Perfpedtive-Ghls, ivhich I had ta- 
ken on purpofe, I laid me down flat on my Belly en 
the Ground, and began to look for the Place: 1 pre- 
fently found there were no lefs than nine naked Savages 
fitting round a fmall Fife, they had made ; not to ivijnn 
ihem, lor they had no need of that, the Weather bdng 
extreamhot; but, as I fuppos'd, to drels Ibiiie of'tiieir 
barbarous Diet of human Flelh, which they had 
brought with theiiij whether alive or dead, I could not 

They had two Canoes with lliem, which they had 
haled up upon the Shore ; and as it was then Tide of 
El)b, they leem'd to me to wait tor the Return of die 
Flood, to go away again ; it is not ealy to imagine 
what Conlullon this Sight put nie intOj efpecially lee- 
ing them corne on my Jide the Ifland, and fo near me 
too ; but «hen I obferv'd their coming mull be a!- 
wayswith theCurrentof the Ebb, I began afterwards 
to be more iedate in my Mind, being fatisfy'd that I 
might go abroad with Jafetyal! the Time of the Tide 
of tloodj if they were not en Shure before j And ha- 
ving made this Obi'ervation, 1 went abroad about my 
Harveft-Work wiih the more Compofure. 

As I expeift^d, fo it proved, for as foon as the Tide 
made tothe Weftward, I law them al! take Boat, and 
roiv for paddle, as we call itj all away ; I fliould have 
cbferv'd, that for an Hour and more before they went 
off, they went to dandng, and I could eafily dilcern 
their TofturesandGefturesby my GlafTes: 1 could not 
perceive, by my nicefl Obfervation, but that they were 
(lark naked, and had- not the lead Covering upon th;m; 
but whether they were Men or Women, that I could 
not diftinguilh. 

As foon as I faw them (hip'd and gone, I took two 
Guns upon my Shoulders, and two Mflols at my Gir. 
die, and my great Sword by my fide, without a Seab- 
bardj and with all the Speed 1 was able to make, I ■ 
went away to the Hill, where I had difcover'd the firfl 
Appearance of all; As foon as I got thither, which 
was not lefsthan two Hours, (fori could not go apace 
being fo ioaden with Arms as I was) I perceJv'd there 
I 4 had 



, Google 



( '7«) 

Iiad been tliree Cannes more of Savages on that Place > 
Rnd Wking outtUither, I faw they were all at Sea. to- 
gether, mailing over for the Main. 

Tills was a dreadful Sight to niCj efpecially when 
filing down to llie bliore, I could fee the Marks of 
Horror which the diimal Work they had been ahout had 
lelt behind it, vi^. the Blood, the Bones, and Part of 
the Flelli of human Bodies, eaten and devoured by 
thole Wret;hcs, with Merriment and Sport; I was fo 
fill'dwith Indignation at the Sight, that I began now 
to premeditate tlie Deilni^tion of the next that I law 
there, let them be who or liow many Ibever. 

It leem'd evident to me, that the Vifits which they 
thus made to this llland, were not very frequent ; for it 
was above fifteen Months before any more of them 
came on Shore there again ; that is Ufaji, I never law 
them, or any Footfteps, or Signals of them, in all tliat 
Time ; for as to the rainy Seafons, then they are iiire 
not to come abroad, at leaft not lb far; yt:i: all this 
while I lived uncomibrtably, by cealbn of the conflanC 
J\ pprehen lions I was in of their coming upon me by 
furpViie ; from whence I obferve, that tlie ExpeAation 
of Evil is more bitter than the Suffering, efpecially 
if there is no room to fliake off that Eapeiilation, or 
thofe Apprehenfions. 

During all this timCj I was in the niurthering Hu- 
mour ; and took up iiioft of my Hours, which Ihould 
have been better em'pIoyed,in contriving how to circum- 
vent and fall upon them the very next time I lliould fee 
them i efpecially if they fliould be divided, as they 
were the lall time, into two Parties; nor did Iconfi- 
der at all, that if I kill'd one Party, fiippofe ten or a 
dozen, I was ftill the next Day, or Week, or Month, 
to kill another, and io, another, even ad i/ifinitam) till 
1 Ihould be at length no lefs a Murtlierer than tJicy 
were in being Man-eaters, and perhaps much more 
fo. 

I fpent my Days now in great Perplexity and An- 
xiety of Mind, expeifting that I ihould one Day or o- 
ther fall into the Hands oi thefe mercilefs Creatures ; 
if I did at any time venture abroad, it was not 
without looking round me with the greateft Care and 
Caution 



Googje 



C '77 ) 

Caution Imaginable ; and jiow 1 found to my great 
Comfort, bow happy it was that I had provided tor a 
tame Flock or Herd ot Goats ; for I durft not upon any 
account fire my Gun, efpecially near that fide of the 
Illand where they ufually came, left I ihould alarm the 
Savages ; and ifthey had fled from me now, I was fura 
to have them come back again, with perhaps two or 
three hundred Camet witli them in a few Days, and 
then I knew what to espedt. 

However, I wore out a Year and three Months more,' 
before I ever law any more of the S avages, and then 
I found them again, as I fhall (con obferve : It is true, 
they might have been there once or twice ; but either 
they made no Stay, or at leafl, I did not liear them ; 
but in the Month of May, as near as I could calculate, 
and in my four and twentieth Year, I had a very ftrange 
fincounfer with theiti, of which in its Place. 

The Perturbation of my Mind, during this fifteen or 
fiKteen Months Interval, was very great; I flept un. 
quiet, dreamt always frightful Dreams, and often flatt- 
ed out of my Sleep in the Night: In the Day great 
Troubles overwhelmed myMind, in the Night I dreamt 
often of killing the Savages, and the Reafons why I 
might juftify the doing of it ; But to wave all this for a. 
while 1 it was in the middle of May, on the ilsteenth 
Day I think, as well as my poor wooden Calendar 
would reckon ; for I niark'd all upon the Poft ilill ; I 
fay, it was on the fixteenth of May, that it blew a very 
great Storm of Wind, all Day, with a great deal of 
Lightning and Thunder, and a very foul Night it wag 
after it: I knoiv not what was the particular occafion 
of it ; but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up 
with ferious Thoughcsabuut my prelent Condition, [ 
ivas I'urprix'd with the Noife of a Gun, as I tlwught, 
fir'd at Sea. 

This ivas to be fure a Surprize of a quite diflferenc 
Nature from any I bad met with before ; for the No- 
tions this put into my Thoughts were ({uite of another 
kind : I ftarted up in the greaieft Halle imaginable, 
and in a trice clapt my Ladder to the middle Place of 
the Rock, and pulled it after me, and mounting it the 
iKcoiid Time, got to the Top of the Hill ; tha verj Mo_ 
1 5 ment 



, Google 



( 178 ) 

ment a Fbfli of Fire bid me Uften for a fecond Gun, 
which accordingly, in about halt' a Minute, I heard, 
and hy the StJiind kneiv tliaE it was Irom that Part of 
ihe Sea wheie I was drii'en out with dit Current in 
Bi.-at. 

I immediately confider'd that this mull be fome Ship- 
in Diftrefs, and that they had fome Comrade, or fome 
othsr Ship in Company, and fir'd thefe Guns for Sig; 
nals of DitlriKs, and to ohtain Help : f liad this Pre- 
fcnce of Mind at that Minute, as to think, that tho' 
I could not help them, it may be they might help me ; 
fol Ijro ugh t together all the dry Wood I could get at 
hand, and making a good handlbme Pile, I let it on 
Fire upon the Hill ; the Wood was dry, and blai'd free- 
ly, and tho' the Wind bleiv very hard, yet it burnc 
iairly out, lo that I was certain, if there was any fucli 
Thing as a Ship, they muft needs fee it, and no doubt 
they did, for as loon as ever my Fire blai'd up, I heard ' 
another Gun, and after that feveral others, all from the 
lame Quarter : ! ply'd my Fire all Night long, till 
Day broke \ and when it was broad Day, and the Air 
cleSr'd up, I faw foiiieiking at a great Diilance at Sea, 
lull Eajt of the IQand, whether a Sail, or a Hull, I 
could not diftingui/h, no not with my Glafles, the 
Diftance was Co great, and the Weather ftill fomething 
liazy alfo ', at leail it was fo out at Sea. 

I look'd frequently at it all that Day, and loon per- 
ceiv'd that it di4 not move ; fo I prelcntly concluded 
that it was a Ship at an Anchor ; and being eager, you 
may be fure, to be latisfy'd, I took my Gun in n:y 
Hand, and ran toward the Sird/j- Eafl Side of the Ifiand, 
to the Rocks where ! had formerly been ca ry'd away 
with the Current, and getting up there, the 'Weather 
by this Time being perfeilly clear, I could plainly lee, 
to my great Sorrow, the Wreck of a Ship call away 
in the Night upon thofe concealed Rocks which I found 
when I was cut in my Boat ; and which Rocks, as they 
check'd the Violence of the Stream, and made a kind 
of Counter-Stream or Eddy, were the OccaJion of my 
recovering then from the moft del'perate hopclels Condi- 
tion that ever I had heea in in all my Life- 

Thu^ 

' ' . Ho.redbyGoOg'l. 



(' 17? )' 



Thus, wliat is one Man's Safety, is anotlier Man's 
Defli-uftion ; tor it feems tliefe Men, whoever they 
were, bdng out of their Knowledge, and theRocks be- 
ing wholly under Water, had been driven upon tlieni 
ill the Night, the Wind blowing hird at E. and E.I^.E- 
Hadttiey ieen thelfland, as I nuiit neceffarily fuppofe 
they did not, they muft, as I thought, have endea- 
vour'd to have fav'd themfelves on Shore by the Help 
of their Boat; but their firing off Guns tor He4p, elpe- 
cially when they law, as I imagin'd, my Fire, filled 
mc with many Thoughts: Fir ft 1 imagin'd, that upon 
feeing my Light, they might have put themfelves into 
tlieip Boat, and have endeavour'd to make the Shore, 
but that the Sea going very high, they might have 
lieen cail away ; other times I imagin'd, that they 
might have loft their Boat before, as might be the 
Caic many ways ; as particularly, by the breaking of 
the Sea upon their Ship, which many times obliges 
Men to ftave, or take in pieces their boat ; and fome* 
times to throw it over Board with their own Hands: 
Other times I imagin'd, they had Ibm^ other Ship or 
Ships in Company, who, upon the Signals of Diftrels 
they bad made, bad taken them up and carried them 
oft: Other whiles I fancied, they were ail gone off to 
Sea in their Boat, and being hurried away by the 
Current that I bad been formerly in, were carry'd out 
into the great Ocean where there was nothing but Mi- 
fcryand Ferjfhing ; and that perhaps they might by 
this Time think of ftarving, and of being in a Condi- 
tion to eat one another. 

As all thefe were but Corjeclures at beft, fo in the 
Condition I was in, I could do no mote than look on 
upon the Milery ot the poor Men, and pity them ; 
which had ftill this good Efffeft on my Side, that it 
gave me more and more Caufe to give Thanks to 
God, who had fo happily and comfortaijly provided 
liir me. in my defolate Condition i and that ot two Ships 
,Gqn3p»pies wlio were now caft away upon this Part 
of the World, not one Life Ihould be fpar'd but mine.: 
1 learnt here again tQ obferve, that it is very rare that 
,the Providence of Cod cafts US into any Condition of 
■laiie fo low, or any Mifery fo grea'-, but we liwy lee 
,. ; fonis- 



i by Google 



( i8o)' 



fouiething or other to be thankful for ; and may fee o." 
tilers in worfe Circiimihnces than our own. 

Such certainly (vas the Cafe of thefe Men, of whom^ 
I could not ib much as lee Room to fappofe any of 
them were fav'd ; nothing could make it rational, fo 
miicii as to wifli or expeft that they did not all periili 
there, except the PoiTibility only of their being taken 
up by another Ship in Company; And this was hut 
mere PolFibility indeed ; for I few not the lead Signal 
or Appearance of any fiich Thing. 

I cannot explain, by any poflitile Energy of Words, 
what a flrange Longing or Hankering of Delires I felt 
in my Soul upon this Sight j breaking out fometimes 
ibus: O that there had been hut one or two, nay, or 
hut one Soul fav'd out of Che Ship, to have efcap'd to 
jiie, tliat 1 might but have had one Companion, one 
Tellow- Creature to have I'poken to me, and to have 
CJiivers'd with! In ail the Time of my iolitary Life, 
I never felt fo earned, fo ftrong a Defire after the So- 
ciety of my Fellow-Creatures, or I'o deep a Regret at 
the Want of it. 

There are fome fecrel moving Springs in (he Affec- 
tions, which, when they are let a-going by fome Ob- 
jeA in View, or be it i'ocne Obj.a, though not in View, 
yet render'd prelent to t'je Mind by the Power of Ima- 
gination, that Motion carries out the Soul by its Im- 
jutuofity to fuch violent, eager Embraclngs oi the Oh- 
jeit, that the Ahlence of it is infup portable. 

Such were tjiefe earned Wjfliings, That but one Man 
had l):en fav'd ! O that it ha/I been but One ! 1 believe 
I repeated the Words, that it had been but One ! a 
ihoufand times', and the D e fires were fo mov'd by ir, 
that when I fpoke the Words, my Hands would clinch 
together, and my Fingers prels the Palms ofmy Hands, 
that if 1 had had any foft Thing in my Hand, it woHld 
have cnifb'd it involuntary ; and my Teeth in my Head 
would ftrike together, and fcC againd one another fo 
ilrong, that tor fome time 1 could not part them 
again. 

Let the Naturalifts explain thefe Things, and the 

Reafon and Manner of them; all I can fay of them, is, 

to defcribe the Faift, which was cyeii furprizing to me 

when 



, Google 



( >8i )• 



when r found it, tho' I knew not from what it Ihould 
proceed ; it was doubtlefs the EtFeft oi' aident WiJhes, 
and of ftrong Ideas form'd in my Mind, refilling the 
Comfort whicli the Converfation of one of my Fellow- 
Chriftians would have been to me. 

But it was not to bej either their Fate, or mine, or 
both, forbid it ; for till the lad Vear of my being on 
this llland, I never knew, whether any were fav'd out 
of that Ship or no •, and had only the AffliiSion foine 
Days after, to fee the Corps oi" a drown'd Boy come 
onshore, at the End of the Illand, which was next 
the Shipwreck : He had on no Cloaths, but a Seaman's 
Waftcoat, a Pair of open knee'd Linnen Drawers, and 
a blue Linnen Shirt ; but nothing to direft me fo much 
as to guefs what Nation he was of : He had nothing in 
his Pocket but two Pieces of Eight and a Tobacco- 
Pipe ; the laft was to me of ten times more Value than 
the firft. 

ft was now calm, and I had a great Mind to venture 
out in my Boat to this Wreck ; not doubting but I 
might find fomething on Board, that might be nti;lul 
to m^ i but that did not altogether prefs me fo mu:b, 
as the Pofiibility that there might be j'et fome living 
Creature on Board, whole Life I might not only fave, 
bt It might, by faying that Life, comfort my own' to 
tJie lafl Degree ; and this Thought clung fo to ti^ 
Heart, that I could not be quiet. Night or Day, but 
1 muft venture out in my Boat on Board this Wreck ; 
and committing the refl to God's Providence, i thought 
the Imprcffion was fe ftrong upon my Mind, that it 
could not be relifted, that it mull come from fome^vi- 
iible EhreAion, and that I fliould be wanting to my 
felf, if I did not go. 

Under the Power of this Imprefillon, I haflen'd back 
to my Caftle, prepar'd every Thing for my Voyage, 
took a Quantity of Bread, a great Pot for freih Wa- 
ter, a Compafs to fteer by, a Bottle of Rum, C for I had 
mil a great deal of that left ) a Basket full of tlaifins : 
And thus loading my felf with every thing necelTary, I 
went down to my Boat, got the Water out of her, and 
got her afloat, loaded all my Cargo in her, and then 
went Heme again for mwre : My lecond Cargo wasa 
great 



, Google 



( lS2) 

great Bag full oi Rice, the Umbrella to fet up over my. 
Head for Shade, another large Pot full oi' freih Water, 
and about two Dozen of m> Imall Loaves, or Earky 
Cakes, more than before, with a Bottle of Goat's Miljt,. 
anda Cheefe; all which, with great Labour-and Sweat, 
I brouglit to my Boat, and praying to God to direft 
my Voyage, I put out, and rowing or paddling the. 
Canoe along the Shore, I came at lail to the utinoft 
Point of the liland, on thatSide, ( vi^, ) N, E. And 
now I was to Riunch out into the Ocean, and either 
to venture, or not to venture ; I look'd on' the rapid. 
Cm-rents which ran conCUnily on both Sides of the- 
Ifland, at a Diftance, and which were very tenible to 
me, from the Remembrance of the Hazard I had been 
in beJore, and my Heart began to fail me; for I fbru- 
faw that ifl was driven into either oi thofe Currenis, 
I iliould be carried a vaft Way out to Sea, and perhaps 
out of my Reach, or Sight of the Ifland jgain ; and that 
then,, as my Boat was but fmall, if any little Gale of 
Wind iliould rife, I Ihould be inevitably lofl, 

Thefe Thoughts fo opprefs'd my Mind, that I be- 
gan to give over my Enterpriie, and having baled my 
Boat into a little Creek on the Shore, 1 flept out, and 
fat me down upon a little rifing bit of Ground, very 
penlive and aonious, between Fear and Dclire about 
my Voyage ; when, as I was mufJng, I could perceive 
that the Tide was turn'd aod the Flocd came on, upon 
which my going was for fo many Hoiu-s impracii- 
cable: Upon this prefently it oecur'd to me, that I 
ihould go up to the highelt Piece of Ground i conH 
" iind, and oblerve, ifi could, how the Sets of the Tide 
or Currents lay, when the flood came in, that 1 miglit 
judge whether, ifl was driven one Way out, I might 
not expeft to be driven anoilier Way homa,. with the 
fame Rapidnefs of the Currents: This Thought; was po 
Iboner in my Head, but 1 caft my Eye upon a little 
Hill, which fiiiEciently overloolt'd the Sea bpth ways, 
and" from whence J had a clear View of the .Currents, 
or Sets of the Tide, and which Way I was to guide 
my felfin my Eteturn; Here I found, that as the Cur- 
rent of the Ebb fet out clofe by the South Point of the 
Ifland, fo th£ Current, of tli^l^loodlcE in dole by tl.j^ 
Shoid 



oyle 



, We oFthe North Side, and that I had notliingto Jo 
i)Ut to keep to tlie North of the Ifland in my Return, 
and I iliculd do well enough. 

Encourag'd with this O bier vation, I refolv'd the next 
Morning to let out with the firft of the Tide ; and re- 
pofing my lelf for that Night in the Caacc, under tlie 
great Watch-Cost I mention'd, I launch'd out : I made 
Jirft a little out to Sea full North, till I began to feel 
the Benefit of the Current, which iet Eaftwardj and 
which carried me at a great Rate, and yet did not fo 
hurry me as the Southern Side Current had done befoie, 
and fo as to take trom me all Government of the Boat; 
but having a ftrong Steerage with my Paddle, I went, 
}fay, at a great Rate, direftly for the Wreck, and in leii 
than two Hours I came up to it. 

It was a difmal Sight to look at : The Ship, which 
by its Building was Spatt'Jh, ftuck fall, jaum'd in be- 
tween two Rocks ; all the Stern and Quarter of her was 
beaten to Pieces with the Sea ; and as her Forecaftle, 
which ftuck in the Rocks, had run on with great Vio- 
lence, her Maiimiaft and Foremaft were brought by the 
Board, that is to fay, broken fliort off; but her Bolt- 
fprit was found, and the Head and Bow appear'd firm; 
When I came clofe to her, a Dog appear'd upon her, 
who feeing me coming, yelp'd and cry 'd, and as foon 
as I call'd him, jump'd into the Sea, to come to me, 
and I took him into the Boat, but found him almoft 
dead for Hunger and Thirft: I gave him a Cake of 
ii:y Bread, and he eat it like a ravenous Woll j that had 
been (barring a Fortnight in the Snow: I tlien gave the 
poor Creature Come frelh Water, with which, if 1 would 
have let him, he would have burft himfelf. 

After this I went on Board ; The firtt Sight I 
met with, was two Men drown'd j^ the Cook-Room, 
er Forecaftle of the Ship, with their Arms faft about 
one another : I concluded, as is indeed probable, that 
when the Sliip flruck, it being in a Storm, the Sea 
broke fo high, and fo continually over her, that the 
Men were not able to bear it, and were ftrangled with 
the conftsnt rulliing in of the Water, as much as if they 
had been under Water : Befides the Dog, there was 
nothing left in the Ship that had Life, nor any Goods 
that 

, Goog 



r 



( iS4 ) 

that I couU fee, but what were IpoiI'd by tbe Water ! 
There were fome Casks of Liquor, whether Wine or 
Brandy, I knew not, which lay lower in the Hold, and 
which, the Water being etib'd out, I could lee, but 
they were too big to meddle with : 1 faw feveral Chefts, 
which I believ'd belong'd to fome of the Seamen, arid 
I got two of them into the Boat, without examining 
what was in them. 

Had the Stern of the Ship been fix'd, and the Fore- 
part broken off, I am perfwaded I miglit have made a 
good Voyage; for by what I found in thefe two Chefts, 
1 had room to fupjjofe the Ship had a great deal of 
Wealth on Board ; and if I may guefs by theCourle 
fhe (leer'd, Die mull have been bound from the Basmi 
Atres, or the Rio de la Plata, in the Soulh-Part ai Ame- 
r'ca, beyond the Bri^ils, to the Havana, in the Gulph 
of Mexico, and fo perhaps to Spain : She had, no doubt, 
a great Trealiire in her, but of no Ufe at that time to 
any Body ; and ivhat became of the reft of her People, 
I then knew not. 

1 found, befides thefc Chefts, a little Cask full of 
T.iquor, of about twenty Gallons, which I got into my 
Boat, with much Difficulty : There were feveral Mus- 
kets in a Cabbin, and a great Fowder-Horn, with a- 
bout four Pounds of Powder in it; as for the Muskets, I 
had no occafion for them, fo I left them, but took the 
Pcwder-Horn : I took a Fire-fhovel and Tongs, which 
1 wanted extremely ; as alfo two little Brafs- Ret ties, a 
Copper- Pot to make Chocolate, and i Gridiron; and 
with this Cargo, and the Dog, I came away, the Tide 
beginning to make home again ; and the fame Eve« 
ning about an Hour within Night, 1 reach'd the lil.ind 
again, weary and fatigu'd to the laft Degree. 

I repos'd that Might in the Boat, and in the Morn- 
ing 1 refolv'd to harbour what I had gotten m my new 
Cave, not to cai-ry it home to my Cartle : After re- 
frelhing my feltj I got all my Cargo on Shore, and be- 
gan to examine the PartKTulars: The Cask of Liquor I 
tound to be a kind of Rum, but rot fuch as we had at 
thcBrafiis; andinaWord, not at all good ; but when 
I came to open the Cherts, I found feveral things of 
great Ufe to me; For Example, i found in one a fine 
Cafe 



Google 



( i8; ) ' 

Cafe of Bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and HWi 
with. Cordi.il Waters, fine, and very good ; the Bot- 
tles held about three Pints each, and were tip'd with 
Silver : I found two Pots of very good Succades, or 
Swettnieats, fo fafteo'd alfo on Top, that the fait Wa- 
ter liad not hurt them ; and two more of the fame, 
which the Water had fpoil'd: I found fome very good 
ShirtSj \vhich were very welcome to me, and about a 
dozen and a half of Linnen white Handkerchiefs, and 
eoloLir'd Neckcloths; the former were alfo very wel- 
come, being exceeding refrcftiing to wipe my Face in a 
hot Day ; be/ides this, when 1 came to the i'iil in the 
Cherts, I found there three great Bags ofPieces of Eight, 
wliich held about eleven hundred Pieces in all ; and in 
one of them, wrapt up in a Paper, fix Doubloons of 
Gold, and fome (Imll Bars or Wedges of Gold i I fup- 
pofe they might all weigh near a Pound. 

The other Cheft I found had feme Cloaths in it, but 
of little Value ; hut by the Cireumftances it muft have 
belong'd to the Gurjier's Mate, tho' there was ro Pow- 
der in it, but aljout two Poundsoffineglai'd Powder, 
ill the three finail Flasks, kept, I. fuppofe, for charg- 
ing their Fowling-pieces on uccafion : Upon thewhole, 
1 got very little by this Voyage, that was of any ute 
to mc ; for as to the Money, I had no manner of occa- 
sion for it ; 'twas to me as the Dirt under my Feet ; and 
I would have given it all for three or four Fair of 
EngUJh Shoes and Stockings, which were things I great- 
ly wanted, but had not had on my Feet now for many 
Years; I had, indeed, gotten two Pair of Shoes now, 
which I took off of the Feet of the two drown'd Men, 
who I faw in the Wreck; and I found two Pair more 
in one of the Chefts, which were very welcome to me \ 
tut they weie not like our EngUp) Shoes, either for 
Eafe or Service, being rather what we call Pumps ihan 
Shoes ; I found in this Seaman's Cheft about fifty 
Pieces of Eight in Royals, hut no Gold ; I fuppofe this 
belong'd to a poorer Man than the other, whicli fecm'd 
to belong to fome Officer. 

Well, however, I lugged this Money home to my 

Cave, and laid it up, as I had done that before, which 

I brought from our own Ship j but ic -was great Pity. 

■ ^ 



, Google 



( 185 ) 

«S I laid, tliat rlie other Part of this Ship had noE come 
to itiy Sharcj tor J am ratisiied I might have loaded my 
Canae feveral timis over with Money, which, if I had 
ever cfcap'd to England, would have lain here lafe 
enough till I might have come again and ietcb'dit. 

Having now brought all my Things on Shore, and 
Issur'd.them, I went bacii to my Boat, and row'd or 
paddled her along the Shore to her old Harbour, where 
J laid her u.p, and made the bell of my Way to my 
old Habitation, where I found every Thing fafe and 
ttuiet ; fo I began to repofe myfelfj live atter niv eld 
fafliion, and taisecare of my Family Affairs ; and for 
a while I lived eafy enough ; only that I .was more vi- 
gilant than J us'd to be, look'd out ottner, and did not 
go abroad fo much ; and il" at any time I did ftir with 
any Freedoiii, it was always to the EaiV Part of the 
Ifland, where I was pretty well latisiy'd the Savages 
never came, and ivhere I could go without (b many 
Precautions, and fuch a Load of Arms and Ammunition, 
as i always carry'd with me, it 1 went the other Way. 

I liv'd in this Ccndicion near two Years more ; but 
my unlucky Head, that was always to let me know it 
Vas born to make my Body mircraWe, was all chofe two 
Years fiU'd with Projeits and Defigns bow, if it were 
pofllblc, I might get away trom this Ifland'; forfome- 
times I was tor making another Voyage to the Wreck, 
the' my Reafon told me that there was nothing left thei t 
worth the Hazard ot^ my Voyage : Sometimes for a 
Ramble one way,fometimes another; and I believe ve- 
rily, if I had had the Boat that I went from SaUie m 
I fliouid have ventur'd to Sea, bound any where, I 
knew not whether, 

I have been, in all my Circumflances, a Memenff 
to thofe who arc tonch'd with that general Plague of 
Mankind, whence, for ought f know, one half ot their 
Miferiesfiow; i mean, thatof not being fatisfy'd with 
the Station wherein God and Nature hath plac'd them ; 
for not to look back upon my primitive Condition, and 
the excellent Advice of my. Father, the Oppofition to 
which was, as I may caH it, my Original Sin, my iubfe- 
quent Miftakes of the fame kind had been the means of 
piy coming into this- nii&rable Condition jforhad thae 
Pior 

. I Google 



( IS? ) 



I Providence, which ib happily had feated me at the Sra- 
fis, as a Planter, hlelVd me with coniin'dDeiires, and I 
could have been contented to have gone on graduailj', 
1 tnight have been by this Time, i mean in theTime 
ef my being in this Ifland, one oi" the moft ccnfiderabla 
J'lantetsin the Srafh-y nay, I am perluadedi that by 
tlic Improvements I had made in that little time I liv'd 
there, and the Enereate I Jhould probably liave made, 
if I badftay'd, I might have been worth an hundred 
ibcufand Moydores ; and what Bufiners had I to leave 
a fettled Fortune, a well-ftock'd Plantation, iniprov- > 
ing and increafing, to turn Supra Cgrgo to Guinea, to 
letch Negroes, when Patience and Time would have 
fo encreas'd our Stock at Home, that we could have 
bought them at our own Door, from thofe whofe Bu- 
ilnels it was to letch them? And though it hadcoftus 
fomething more, yet the Dilftrence ot' that Price was 
by no Means worth faving at fo great a Hazard. 

But as this is ordinarily the Fate of jouTig Heads, 
fo Refleilion upon the Folly of it, is as ordinarily the 
Exercifcof more Years, or of the deavbcught Eipe- 
riencc of Time ; and fo it was with me now ; and yet 
fo deep had the Miftake taken Root in my Temper, 
that [ coutd not fatisfy my felf in my Station, hut was 
continuaJly poring upon the Means and Poflibility of 
my Efcape Irom this Place; and that I may with the 
greaterPleafure to the Reader bring on the remaining, 
i'art of my Story, it may not be improper to give fome 
Account of my firft Conceptions on the Subjeft of this 
fooliJh Scheme for my El'capc ; imd how, and upon what 
Foundation I aSed. 

I am row to be fuppos'd retir'd into my Caflle, 
after my late Voyage to the Wreck, my Frigate laid 
up, and fecur'd under Water as ufu.il, and my Conditi- 
cn reilor'd to what it was before : I had more Wealth, 
indeed, than I had before, but was not at all the richer, 
for I had no more Ufe for it, thin the Indians of Peru 
had beforethe S^ianiards came there. 

It was- one of the Nights, in the rainy Seafon in 
Marchy the four and twentieth Year of my firft fetting 
Foot in this Ifland of Solitarincfs, I was Ijingin my 
lied, or Hammockj awake, very well to Health) hai 



, Google 



( i88 ) 

ho Pain, noDifteraper, no Unealinefs ofBody, nOj nor j- 
uyUneafincfs ot'Mind,mQre than ordinary; but could by 
no means clofe my Eyes ; that is, lb as to fleep i no, 
not a Wink all Night long, otherwiie than as foUuws': 

It is as iiMpofiible as needlefs, to let doivn the innu- 
merable Cro^d oi' Thoughts that whirl'd through that 
great ThorowfaLr of tha Brain, the Memory, in this 
Night's Time: I run over the whole Hifloryol' my 
Lite in Miniature, or by Abridgment, as 1 may call it, 
to my coming to this Ifland ; and alio of" that I'art ol' 
my Life fmce I came to this Ifland ; in my Refliftions 
upon the State oi my Cafe, fince 1 came on Shore on 
this llland, I was comparing the hapjjy Pollure of my 
Affairs, in thefirft Years of my HabitaiioH here, coiii- 
par'dtothe Lifeof Anxiety, Fear, and Care, which! 
had Hv'd in ever fince I had feen the Print of a Foot 
in the Sand ; not that I did not believe the Savages 
had frequented the liland even all the while, and might 
have been feveral Hundreds of them at Times on Shore 
there; but as I had never known it, and was incapable 
of any Apprehenfions about it ; my Satisfaftion waspei- 
fea, tho' my Danger was the fame ; and I was as happy 
in not knowing my Danger, as if 1 bad never really been 
expos'd to it ; this furnilh'd my Tlioughts with many 
very profitable Refledions, and particularly this one, 
how mfinitely good that Providence is, which has pro- 
vided in its Government of Mankind fuch narrow 
Bounds to hisSight and Knowledge of Things; and tho' 
he walks in the midft of fo many thoufand Dangers, 
the Sight of which, if difcover'd to him, would di- 
ftraA his Mind, and fink his Spirits, he is kept fere ne 
and cahii, by having the Events of Things hid Irom 
his Eyes, and knowing nothing of the Dangers, which 
furround him. 

After chefe Thoughts had for fome Time entertained 
me, I came to refleil (erioufly upon the real Danger I 
had been in for fo many Years in this very Ifland ; and 
howl had walk 'd alwut in the greateft Security, and 
with all poffible Tranquillity, even when perhaps no- 
thing but a Brow of a Hill, a great Tree, or the eafual 
Approach of Night, had been between me and the worft 
kind ofDeflmftior, W^. That of falling into the Hands 
of 



Google 



( .89 ) 

of Caniljals and Savages, who would have feizM on m& 
with the Tame View, as 1 did of a Goat or a Turtle, 
and have thought it no more a Crime to kill and de- 
vour me, than I did of a Pidgeon or a Curlieu ; I 
ihould unjuftly flander mj- felt, it' I Hiould fay I was 
rut iincerely thankliil to my great Prelerver, to whofe 
fingular Proteftion I acknowledged, with great Hunii. 
3ity, tbat all thefe unknown Deliverances were due ; 
and without which I Ihould inevitably have fallen into 
their mercilels Hands. 

When thefe Thoughts were over, my Head was for 
fonie time taken up in corfidering the Nature of thefe 
wretched Creatures, I mean, the Savages ; and how it 
eameto pafsinthe World, that the wife Governour of 
all "Ihings fliould give up any of his Creatures to i'ueh 
Inburaanitj; nay, to fometbing fo much below even 
Brufalityit ielf, as to devour its own Kind: But as 
this ended in fonieXat that Tijiie fruitlels) Specula- 
tions, it oecur'd to me to enquire, what Part of the 
World thefe Wretches liv'd in; how farofftheCoaft 
was from whence they came ; what they ventur'd over 
ib far from Home for j what kind of Boats they had; 
and why I might not order my felf, and my Bufinefs 
I'o, th5t I might be as able to go over thither, as they 

I never fo much as troubled my. jelf to confider what 
I Ihould do with my fell when I came thither ; what 
iiiould become of" me, if I fell into the Bauds of the 
Savages 1 or how I Ihould efcape from them, if they 
attempted me ; no, nor (o much as how it was poffi- 
bte for me to reach the Coaft, and not be attempted by 
feme or other of them, without any Poffibility of 
delivering my fclt; and if I ihould not fall into their 
Hands, what I fliould do for Provifion, or whither 
I fliould bend my Courle; none of thele Thoughts, 
I fay, 'I'o much as came in my Way; but my Mind 
was wholly bent upon the Notion of my pafiing 
over in my Boat to the main Land: I look'd back 
upon my prefent Condition, as the moft miferable that 
could poflibly be; that 1 was not able to throw myfelf 
into any thing but Death that could be cali'd worfe ; 
tbac 



..Google 



t'bat if'I reach'd the Shore of the Main, I migJir^ 
perhaps, meet with Relief; or I might coa ft along, as 
I did on the Shore of" Ajiick^ 'till I came to Ibiiie inha- 
bited Country, and where 1 might find fome Relief; 
and after all, perhaps I might lall in with fome Chri- 
ftian Ship that might take meinj and if the worft 
came to the worft, 1 could but die, which would put 
an End to all thale Miferiesat once : Pray Nsle, Alt 
this was the Fruit o£ a difturb'd Mind, an impatient 
Temper, made as it were defperate by the long Conti- 
nuance of my Troubles, and the Difappointments I had 
met in the Wreck I had been on board of, and ivheic 
1 had been fo near the obtaining what I ib earneftly 
long'd for, vi^. Tome Body to Ipeak to, and to learn 
fomeKnowledg from, of the Place where I was, and 
of the probable Means ofmy Deliverance; I (ay, ( 
was agitated wholly by thefe Thoughts: All my Calm 
of Mind in my Relignation to Providence, and wait- 
ing the IlFue of the Difpofitions of Heaven, leem'd to 
be lufpended, and 1 had, as it \veve, no Poiver to 
turn my Thoughts to any Thing) but the Projeft of a 
Voyage to the Main, which came upon me with fuch 
Force, and fuch an Impetaofity ot Defire, that it was 
not to be refifled. 

When this had agitated my Thoughts for two Hours, 
■Ot more, with fach Violence, that it fet my very Blood 
into a Ferment, and my PiiU'e beat as high as if I had 
been in a Fever, merely with the extraordinary Fer- 
vour of my Mind about it ? Nature, as if I had been 
fatigu'd and exhaufted with the very Thought of it, 
threw me into a found Sleep: One would have thought 
I ihouldhave dreamt of it; but I did not, nor of any 
thit^g reTating to it ; but I dreamt, that as i was going 
cut in the Morning, as ufual, from my Caflle, I law 
upon the Shore two Canoes, and eleven Savages coming 
to Land, and that they brought with them another Sa- 
vage, who they were going to kill, in order to eac him ; 
■when, on a fudden, the Savage, that they were going 
to kill, jump'd away, and ran for his Life; then! 
thought in my Sleep, tJiat he came running into my 
little thick Grove, before my Fortification, to hide 
iumielf and -tliati feeing him alone, and iiot perceiv- 
ing 



.;, Google 



( 191 y-' 

,Big that the other fought him that wa)', 0ie»M nsy felf 
to him, and fmiling upon him, encourag'd him : That 
he kneel'd down to me, leeming to pray me to affill 
him; upon which I ftiew'd my Ladder, made him go 
up, and carried him into my Cave, and he became 
my Servant j and that as foon as I had gotten this Man, 
J i'aid to my felf. Now I may certainly venture to the 
Main Land ; for this Fellow will ferve me as a Pilot, 
and will tell nie what to do, and whither to go tor 
Provlfions ; and whether not to go for tear of being 
devoured, what Places to venture into, and what to 
dcape. I wak'd with this Thought, and was under 
fueh inexpreflible Impreffions of Joy at the Profpeft of 
my Elcape in my Dream, that the Dilappointments 
which I felt upon coming to my felf, and finding it 
was no more than a Dream, were eijually extravagant 
the other way, and threw me into a very great Dejec- 
tion of Spirit, 

Upon this, however, I made this Conclufion, That 
my only way to go about an Attempt tor an Efcap^ 
was, if poflible, to get a Savage into my PotfeiTion j 
and, if poflible, it Ihould be one oi' their Prifoners,^ 
ivhom they bad condemn'd to be eaten, and ihould 
bring thitlier to kill ; but thcfe Thoughts (iill were 
attended with this Difficulty, that it was impoiTible 
.to efieft this, without attacking a whole Caravan of 
them, and killing them all ; and this was not only a 
very defperate Attempt, and might mifearry ; but, on 
the other hand, ! had greatly fcrupl'd the Lawl'ulnels of 
it to me, and my Heart trembled at the Thoughts of 
ftedding fo much Blood, tho' it was for my Delive- 
rance ; -I Jieed not repeat the Argujiients which occur'd 
to me againft this, they being the fanie mention'd be- 
fore : Kut tho' I had other Iteafons to offer now, vi^. 
That thole Men were Enemies to my Life, and would 
devour me, it they could, that it was Self-prefervatir 
on in the higheft Degree, to deliver my felf from this 
Death of a Life, and was atfting in my own Defence, as 
much as if they ivere aftually affaulting me, and the 
like : I fay, tno' thefe things argued for it, yet the 
Tlioughts of Ihedding human Blood for my Delive- 
■rance, were very terrible to me, andfuch as! could by 
no Means reconcile my lelf to a great wliile. How; 



, Google 



C ISO ■' 

Howeref, at Ia(V, after many fecret Difputes witfi 
niyfelfj and after great Fer^ilexities about it, (for all 
thefe ArgumentSj one wsy and another, ftruggled in 
my Head a long lime) the eagsr prevailing Delirs 
of Deliverance at length mafter'd all the reft, and I re- 
folv'd, ifpolKble, to get oneofthel'e Savages into my 
Hands, coil what it would ; My next thing then was 
to contrive Kow to do it ; and this ind::ed was very 
diiEcult to relblve on ; But as I could pUeli upon lio 
probable Means for it, fo Irefolv'd toput myrelf'upon 
the Watch, to fee them when they came on Shore, and 
leave the reft to the Event, taking fuch Meafures as the 
Opportunity fliould prefeni, let be what would be. 

With thele Refolutions in my Thoughts, I fet myfelf 
upon the Scout, as often as poifible, and indeed lb often 
till I was heartily tired of it ; for it was above a \ ear 
andahalfthst I waited, and for great Part of that Time 
■went out to the Weft-End, and to the South-Weft Cor- 
ner of the Ifland almoft every Day, to fee for Canoes, 
Ijutnone appear'd : This was very diicouraging, and 
began to trouble me much ; tho' I can't fay that it did 
in this Cale as it had done fome time before that, vi^. 
wear off the Edge of my Defire to the thing, but the 
longer it feem'd to be delay 'd, the more eager I was for 
it ; In a Word, I was uot at firft more careful to fliun the 
Sight of thsfe Savages, and avoid lieing Icen by them^ 
ihan I was now eager to be upon them. 

Befides, I fancied myfelf able to manage one, nay, 
two or three Savages, if I had them, fo as to make them 
entirely Slaves to me, to do whatever I Should dire^ 
them, and to prevent their being able at any time to do 
me any Hurt : It was a great while that 1 pleas'djjiy- 
felf with this Affair ; but nothing ftiil prefetited ; all 
my Fancies and Schemes came to nothing, for no Sava- 
ges came near me for a great while. , 

About a Year and half alter I. had entertain'd thefe 
Notions, and, by long muCng, had as it were relblv'd 
them all into nothing, for want of an OccaJion to put 
ihem in Execution, 1 was furpriz'd one Morning early, 
with feeing no lefsthan five Cames all on Shore toge- 
ther on my Side the Iftand, and the People who be- 
long'd fo them all landed, aiid out of my Sight ■- The 
Num- 



.;, Google 



( m ) 

Number oCthem broke all my Meafures 5 for feeing fo ' 
many, and knowing that they always cams tour, or iix, 
or I'ometimes mrjre, in a Boat, I could not tell what to 
think of it, or Jiow to take my Meafures, to attack 
twenty or thirty Men fingle-lianded ; lb I lay fttll in 
my Callle, perplei'd and Qilcomforted ; however I put 
my.felfinto all the fame PoKurcs for an Attack, that 
I had formerly provided, and was juft ready for Aflion, 
if any thing had prefented : Having waited a g^iod 
while, lirtening to hear if they made aiiyNollej at length 
being very impatient, I let my Guns at the Foot oi my 
Ladder, and clamber'd up to the Top of the Hill bjf 
my two Stuges, as ufual ; {landing lo however, that 
my Head did not appear above tlie Hill ; (b that they 
could not perceive me hy any Means : Here I ohierv'd, 
by the help of my Perfpeaive-Glafs, that they were 
no Icfs than thirty in Number, that tiiey had a Fire had 
kindled, and that thsy had had Meat drefs'd ; how they 
cooked it, that I knew not, er what it was, hut tbey 
were all dancing, in I know not how many barbarous 
Geftures and figures, llieir own Way, round the Fire. 

While I was thus looking on them, I perceiv'd hy ray 
Pcrfpeaive two miferaWe Wretches drag'd from the 
BoaB, where, it feems, they were laid by, and were 
now brought 'Out for the Slaughter : I perceived one ot 
thetii immediately fell, bsingJinock'd down, I fuppofe 
with a Club or wooden Sword, (or that was their Way, 
and two or three others were at work irrmediately, cut- 
ting him open for their Cookery, while the other Vi- 
ftim was left (landing by himfelt; till they fhould he 
ready for him : \n that veryMoment this poor Wretch fee- 
ing himtelf a little at Liberty, Nature infpir'd him witii 
Hopes of Liie, and he ftarted away from them, and 
ran with incredible Swiftneis along the Sands direftly 
towards me, I mean, towards that Parr of the Coail 
where my Habitation was. 

I was dreadfully frighted fthatl mufl acknowledgej 
when I perceiv'd him to run my Way ; and efpecially» 
when, as I thought, I law him purfucd by the whole 
Body ; and now I eicpeiftid that Part of my Dieain was 
coming to pafs, and that he would certainly take Ihelter 
inmyGrore; bat! could not d:-pend by any means 
K. upon 



..Google 



( 1*4 ) J 

tfpon my Draam for the reft of ic, vi^. that tlie otber 
Savages would not purfue him thither, and find him 
there : However, I kept my Sciition, and my Spirits be-p 
gan to recover, wheiil tbund tliat tiierewas not above 
three JVlen that totlow'd him ; and flill more was I en- 
coBrBged, when 1 lound that he outftript them exceed- 
ingly in running, and gain'dGroiind of them. To that if 
he could hut liold it for hall an Hour, I faw eafily he 
ivould fairly get away from them all. 

There was between them and my Caftle the Creek 
which I mention'd often at the firft Part of my Story, 
when 1 larded my Cargoes out of the Sliip ; and this 1 
knew, he njuft neceflarily fwim.over, or the poor 
Wretch would be taken there ; But when tlie Savage ej- 
caping came thither, he made .nothing of it, tho' the 
Tide was then up ; but plunging in, fivam thro' in a- 
bout thirty Strokes, or thereabouts, landed, and ran on 
with exceeding Strength and Swittnefs ; when the three 
Purfueis came to (he Creek, I found that two of them 
could Iwini, but the third could nut, and that he flanding 
on the other Side, look'd at the other, but went no 
further ■, and ibon alter went foftly back again, which, 
as it happen'd, was very well for him in the Main, 

I obierv'd, that the two who fwam, were yet more 
tlian t#ice as long fwlmming over the Creek, than the 
Fellow Vv as that Hed from them: It came now very 
warmly upon my Thoughts, and indeed irre/iftlbly, 
that now was my Time to get me a Servant, and per- 
haps a Comparion, or Afliftant, and that I was call'd 
ylairily by Providence to fave this poor Creature's 
Lite ; i immediately gat down the Ladders with all pof- 
fihle Expedition, fetch'd my two Guns, for they *vere 
both at the Foot of the Ladders, as I obferv'd above} 
ahd getting up again with the fame hafte, to the Top 
cf the Hill, i crois'd toward the Sea ; and having a ve- 
ry Ihort cut, and all down Hill, clap'd my felf in the 
Way between the I'urfuers and the purfued, hallowing 
aloud to bim that fled, who looking back, was at Aril 
perhaps as ntach (righted at me, as at them j but I bee 
■Kon-'d with rny Hand Coibim to come back, and in the 
mean time, I flowly advanced towards the two that fol- 
.Ifiw'd ; then rufhing at once upon the ibremo(l,lkiiuck'd 
him 



.;, Google 



•■~1 



,Gooy le 



.d^k 



(' HT )' 



Si* down wUli cheStQckofmy Piece; L was loth ti 

ire, Uet^ufe'l woiiW Dot have tbtt reft bear ; t bo' at that 
Kiftance it wtJuJd not have been ealily heard ; aiid be- 
ing oiu of sight! ot tlie Smoait too, tbcy \touid not have 
eaiil) known what to make otit ;. Having knock'd this 
fellow down, the other who purfti'd him llopt, as it_ he 
had been (righted, -and i advanced a pace towards him ; 
hut as 1 came nearer,,! per.ceiv'dpreiiaitly, he.had n Bow 
and Arrow, and.was fitting it to ihoot at me; io.Iwas 
then neceffilaled lolioot at himijrit ; whicli.I did, and 
kill'd liimattht'lirfl:. Shot; llie poor iav^ewhoflcd^ 
but Iiad. ftop'd, tho' he faw both his Enemies. Uiien, 
and kiil'd, [as he thought,J yet was fo frighted w^h tha 
Fire, and Noiieofmy Piece, that he ftood ftock ftill, 
^lidneithei- came forward or went, backward, tho' he 
feeiji'd i^tiier inclio'd to &y fttll, than to come on ; I 
hqllO'A''i again to him, ^nd.ttiade SignS'. to. come tori 
waf.d,. which hs eafiiy underftoud. And came a liitlfc y»a^ 
then ftop'd. again, and then a little tarther, aDdrflop'd at 
gaiti ; and t could then perceive that iie.ftoDd,trcmbUogi 
3s i Fie had .been taken Prifoner, snd bad juft been to tux 
kili'd, as his two Enemies were ; I beckon'd liim agsiti - 
to come to me, and gave liim all the Signs of Encou- 
ragement that I could think oi ; and he came nearer and 
nearer, kneeling down every ten oi- twelve Stejis,. in to- 
k-«n of Acknowledgment tor faving his .Life ;■! fmil'd 
at him, .and look'd pleafantly, and beckon'd to hifti tp 
come ftill rearer ; at length he came clofe to me, and 
then he kneel'd down again, . kife'd the Ground, , an^ laid 
tis.Head upon tiie Ground, and_ taking me by tlipFoot^ 
ietni> Footupon hisHead; This, it leents, was in Co* 
ken of fwearing to be my Slave for ever : i tuok him 
up,. and made much of him, and encpuraged him a!l I 
COuldii-But there was more Work tu do >et, for I perr 
ceiv'd the Savage whom I tnock'd down, was not kili'd, 
Wtftun'dwith the Blow, and- began touometo bimfelf ; 
To I pointed to him, and ftuwing him the. Savage, that 
he was not dead ; upon this te fpoke . feme ^ ords to 
me, and.tho' I could not underftawi themi, yet I tholighe 
they were pleafant to hear, for<hey were the firft Sound 
ef a'Man'a.Voice that I had heard, ^y. cmn exapts^t for 
iAovefiv9andtweBtyYears.n&iit there.wssno cyi\ejar 



- < - 



K 2 fuch 

Goo< 



( 196 ) 

fo;h Refle-ftiens »ow ; the Savage, wlio was knock'd 
down, recover'd liiinrelf to far, as to fit up upon the 
Ground, and I peixeiv'd iliac my Savage began to be 
afraid; bat when I law that, IpreCenied myotherl'iece 
At the Man, as il I would Ihoot iiiin : upon this my $3- 
vagUjfirfolcalthimmw, made a Motion to me to 
lend him my Sword, wliich hung naked in a Belt hy 
aiy Side ; io I did : He no fooner bad it, hut he runs to 
his Enemy, and at one Blow cut ofF his Head as cleverly, 
no Executioner in Germany could have done it fooner 
or better ; wliicli I thought very ftrange, for one, who 
Ihadreafonto believe, never fawaSword in his Life 
before, except tbeir own wooden Swords ; however, it 
leems, as I learn'd afterwards, they make thtir wooden 
Swords lb fliarp, fo heavy, and the Wood is fo hard, 
that they will cut off Heads even with them, ay and 
Arms, aiadtliat atone Blow too; When he had dons 
this, be'femes laughing to me in Sign of Triumph, and 
brooglrtme the Sword again, and with abundance of 
(jcftures, which I did not underftand, laid it down 
with the Head of the Savage that he had kili'd, juft be. 
fore me. 

But that which aHoniJh'd him moft wss, to know how 
I had kili'd the other InSan fo far off ; fo,- pointing to 
hini, he made Signs to me to let him go to liim ; So I 
bad him go, as well as I could ; when he came to htm, 
he flood like one amai'd, looking at him, turn'd him firfl 
on one fide ; then on t'other, look'd at the Wound the 
Bullet had made, which it ieems was jufl in his Breaft, 
wheje it had made a Hole, and no great Quantity of 
Blood had fol!ow'd,.b«t he had bled inwsrdiy, (or he was 
quite dead : Then -he took up his Bow and A rrows , and 
comeback; fo I turn'd to go away, and beckon'd to 
him to follow mc, making Signs to him that mote might 
come after tliem. 

Upon this he fign'd to me, that he ihould bury them 
with Sand, that tlity might not be ieen by the reft if 
they tblloiv'd ; and ib I made Signs again to him to do 
,fo ; he fell to work, and in an Inftant he had fcrap'd a 
■Hole in the Sand with his Hands, big enough to bury 
the firit in, and then drag'd him into it, and cover'd 
^m, and did fo alio hy die other \ I believe he had 
I - - . ■ bury'd 

Hosted by GOOg C 



( '?7 ) . 

burj'd cbembothina Qyarter of an Hour; tliencal' 
ling him away, I cariy'd him not to my Caftlc, but 
quite away to my Cave, on the further Part of the |- 
fland ; lb 1 did not let my Dream come to pais in that 
Part) vix- That be came into my Grove lor Shelter- 

Here I gave him Bread, and a Bunch oi" Raifins to 
eat, and a Draught of Water, which I found lie was in- 
deed in great Diilrels for, b) liis running; and Laving 
retrefiid him, 1 made Signs lor him to go lie down and 
deep, pointing to a Place where I had laid a great Par- 
cel ofKice Straw, and a Blanket uponit, whidi I ul'^i 
to lleep upon my ielf fometiaies ; lb the poor Creatine 
laid down and went to fleep. 

He was a comely handfome Fellow, perfeftly weil 
m^de, with ftrait long Limbs, not too large, tall, and 
well Ihap'd ; and, as 1 reckon, about twentj-Jix Years 
ol Age. He had a very giwid Countenance, not a fierce 
and litrly Afpeft, but lecm'd to have fometbing very 
manly in his Face, and ytt he had all the Sweetnelsanit 
Softnels of an Eunpean in liis Countenance too, efpe- 
cially when he fmil'd : fHs Hair was long and black, 
not curi'd Uke.Wool ; his Forehead very high, and larjje, - 
and agrtat Vivacity and Iparkling ibarpnelsin hlstyi-s. 
The Colour of bis Skin was not quite black, but very 
tawny, and yet not of an ugly yellow rauleous Tawny, 
as the Brafiliaas, and Virginians, and other Natives ot' 
America are, but of a bright kind ofa dun Olive Co- 
lour, that had in it (bmething very agreeable, tho' nut 
very ealy to delcribe. His Face was round and plump, 
bis Nole fmall, not flat like the T'J^^'-oer, a.very good 
Mouth, thin Lips, and his Teeth finCj well let, and 
white as Ivory ; After he- had (lumbec'd, rather than 
flept, about half an Hour, he wak'd again, and conies 
out of the Cave to me, for I bad l>ecn milking my Goats, 
whicb I had in the Enclofure yiA by. : When he efpy'd 
me, he came running to nie, layiiig himfelf down again 
upon the Ground, with all the polfiblc Signs of an hum- 
ble thankful Difpofition, making a many antick Geftures- 
to Ihow it; At laft be lays bis-Head fiat uppn tl^Ground, 
dole to my Foot, and lets iny other Foot upon his Head, 
at he had done before ; ^nd after tbis, nude aU thv 
K I _ „ ii&ai- 



.vGoo*. le 



( 198 ) 

Signs to we df SubjeAiooj Servitude, and Subihlfltoa 
Jiiuginabie, to let me know how lie woiili Itrvc me as 
longashs-liv'd; I underltood him in many things, and 
let iiim know I was very well pleas'd with him ; in a 
littie tints [ beg.in to Ipeak to him, and teach him to 
Jpeak to me ; and firll, I made him know his Name 
iJiould be Frr^ji, whish was the Day I lav'd his Lite i 
and I call'd- him ib ibr the Memory ot the time ; 1 like, 
wile tauglit liim to fay Mafter, and then let him know 
that was to hv my Name ; I likewife taught him to fay 
Tis itiidM, and to know the Meaning of them; I gave 
him lonte Milk in an earthen Pot, and let him fee me 
drink it heJbre him, and U>p my Bread in it; and I 
gave him a Cake oC iiread to do the like, which lie 
tjuickly oomgly'd-jwith, and made Signs that i: was ve. 
ry good for him. 

i kept tliece with himall tbaC Ni^ht, bat as fcoh as 
it was Day, I beckon'd t-ohim to come with me, and 
Jet him know 1 would give him ibm3 Cloaths, at which 
he leem'd veiy glad, tor he was ftark-naked : As we 
went by the Place where he had bury'd the two Menj 
he pointed ekaitly to the Spot, and 'Ihew'd me th« 
Msrks that he Iwd made to Hnd them agair; making 
Signs to me tliil; we Ibould dig tUem up again, and eat 
thi;iii ; at fliis 1 aBpeai''d'verj- angty, eiprels'dmy Ab^ 
hoiTcncttofit, niadeasir'I Would Toitiit at the Thought* 
uf it, and beckon'd with my Hand to him to come »• 
way, whidi he did immejiiately, with great SUbihilfion : 
I then Jed him up to the Tup of the Hill, to fee if hit 
Enemies were gone, and pulling out my Glais, I 
look'd, and fa w plainly the Place wlSre they hadbeen, 
bat no Appearance ol'them, or ofthar fdarfr ; fo thattc 
was plain that chey were gon^ and had' left their-two 
-X^mradrt behind them, without any Sinrdh after the*. 
_ But 1 was not coMent with this Difcovery, but hi- 
ving now itiore Courage, and conlequently more Curio- 
iity, I took my Man Ffiilay with oie, giving him the 
Sword in his Hafld, with thtf Bow and Arrowjalhi* 
Bask, whieh'I found he cWld'itfe very' dexCrouflyj 
fflflkingbinvcaftry ore Gun {bf-riie, an a I" tiv&tW-my- 
felt; and- away we^nlafch'i "to thB' Plae©- wber* '1^6(0 
Creatures had been j f br i had a mind now to get fonic 
fullec 



_H0.e..,GOOgC 



( 199 ) 

fuller Intelligence of them : W lien I came to itie Place, 
my very Blood ran chill in my Veins, and my Heart 
funk within me at the Horror oi' the Spciftacle : Indeed 
ifwas a dreadful Sight, at leaft it was lo ti me, tho' 
Friday made rolhin'g ot it : The Place was covev'd with 
human Bones, the Ground dy'd with their Blood, 
great Pieces of f klh lelt here and there, half" catena 
mangled and fcorcli'd ; and, in Hiort, all the Tokens of 
the ciiumphant Feaft they had beeii making there, af- 
ter a Viilory over their Enemies: I faw three Skulls, 
Jive Hands, and the Bones of three or lour Legs and 
Feet, and abundance of other Parts of the Bodies ; and 
Friday, by his Signs, made me underlland, that they 
brought over tour I'rifoners to feaft upon i that three of 
them were eaten up, and that he, pointing to liimltlt, 
was the fourth : That there had lieen a great Battel be- 
tween them and. their next King, whole Subjeft it 
feems he had been one of ; and that they bad taken a. 
great Number of Prifoners, ail which were carried to 
levera] Places by thofe that had taken them in the 
fight, ill order to feafl upon them, as was done here by 
thele Wretches upon thole they brought hither. 

I eaus'd fridaj to gather all the Sl;ul!s, Bones, Flelh, 
and whatever reniatn'd, and lay them together on a 
Heap, and make a great Fire upon it, and hum them 
alltoAlhes: I found Friday had fl ill a hankering Sto- 
mach afterfomeoftheFIefh, and was ftill a Cannibal in 
iiis Nature \ but I difcover'd fo much Abhorrence at 
the verj" Thoughts of it, and at the leaft A ppearance c£ 
it, that he durft not difcover it ; for I had, by fome 
means, let him know that I wuuld kill him if he of- 
fer'd it. 

When we had done this, we came back to our Caftle» 
and there I fell to work for my Man Friday; and iirft 
of all I gave him a Pair of Linen Drawers, which I h^.d 
out of the poor Gunner's Cheft I menCion'd, and which 
i found in the Wreck; and which, with a little Alte- 
tatian, fitted him very well ; then I made him a' Jer- 
kin of Goat's- Skin, as well as my Skill would allow, 
and I was now grown a tolerable good Taylor; and I 
gave liim a. Cap, which I had made of a Hare-Skin^ 
very convenient and falhionable enough ; and thus be 

I Goodie 



( 20O ) 



was drefs'd, for tlie pielent, tolerably well, and niighry 
well ivas be pkas'd to fee hi ml elf aimed as well cloatli'd 
as his Wafter: It's true, he went aukwardly in tlicfe 
thiny at firll ; ivearing the Drawers was very aukward 
to him, and the Meevts of the Waiftcoat gall'd his 
Shoulders, and the Infide of his Arms-, but a little 
tafing them, where he coiiiplain'd they hurt him, and 
uJing himlelfto iheni, at kngcli he took to them very 
well. 

The neat Day after J came Home to my Hutch with 
him, I Kgan Co corf.Jer where I fliould lodge him ■, and 
iliai I might do well ibr him, and jet be perfeftly ealy 
my felf : I made a little Tent for him in the vacant 
Place between my two Fortifications, in the Infide oi' 
the la ft, and in the Outfide ofthe firil: And as there 
was a Door or Entrance there into my Cave, I made 
a formal fram'd Docr-Cale, and a Duor to it ofBoards, 
and let it up in thePafl'age, a little within ihc Entrancef 
and caufing the Uoor to open on the InJide, L barr'd it 
up in the Night, taking in my Ladders too; To that 
Fridaji could 00 way come at me in the Infide of my 
innermoll Wail, without making fo much Noife in get- 
ting over, that it mall needs awaken me; fcr my hrll 
■Wall bad now a compleat Root over it of long i^oles, 
covering all my Tent) and leaning up to the iide of 
tl:e Hiil, which was again laid crols vwth fmall Sticks 
inilead ofLaths, and then thatch'd over a great Thick- 
nels with the Rice-Straw, which wasftrong like Reeds; 
and at the Hole or Place which was left to go in or out 
by the Ladder, ! had pkc'd a kind ot Trap-Door, which 
it it bad been attempted on the Out-fide, would not 
have open'd at all, but would have fallen down, and 
made a great Noile ; and as to Weapons, 1 took them 
all into my Side every Night, 

But 1 needed none of all this Precaution ; for never 
Man bad a more faitbliU, loving, fincere Servant than 
rriiiy was to me; without Paffions, Sullenefs, or De- 
iigns i pcrfeaiy ohlig'd and engag'd ; his very Afteftions 
were ty'd to me, like thofe ui a Child to a Father ; and 
1 dare lay, he would have facrific'd his Life Tor the fav- 
ing mine, upon any Occafion whatfoever : The many 
leftimoDics he gave me of this, put it outcfdouhL 
and 



.;, Google 



( =0. ) . 

and Tuon convinc'd me, tliat I needed to ufe no Frecau" 
tions as to nij' Safety on his account. 

This trequentlj' gave me oecafion to obferve, and that 
with wonder, that however it had pleas'd God in his 
I'rovidence, and in the Government of the Worka ol^ 
his Hands, to take from fo great a Part oi" the World ot' 
his Creatures, the beft Ufes to which their Faculties, 
and the Powers of their Souls are adapted ; yet that he 
has beftow'd upon them the fame I'owers, the fame 
ReafoH, the fame Aflfeiftions, the fame Sentiments of 
Kindnefs and Obligation, the lame Paffionj and Refent- 
ments of Wrongs, the fame Sen fe of Gratitude, Since- 
rity, Fidelity, and all the Capacities of doing CJood^ 
and receiving Good, that he has given to us ; and that 
when he pleafes to o/fer them Occifions ofesetting 
thefe, they are as ready, nay, more ready to apply them 
to the right Ules tor which they were befloiv'a,- than 
we are ; And this'madt^ me very melancholy Ibmerrnie?, 
in reflefting, as the feverai Occafions pre'fented, 'hriw 
mean a Ule we make oi'atl thefe, even though wehave 
ihefe Powers enlighcen'd by the great tamp-oflhftmc- 
tion, the Spirit oTGod, and by the RrowledgeJof his 
Word, added to our Under (landing ; .ind why it has 
pleated God to hide the like faving Knowledge from fb. 
many Millions of Souls, whofif 1 might judge by this' 
podr Sayagp)- would make a much bettfer Uie of it tbaa- 
wedid. ■."'■'■ ' 

'FromheiJce T fometimes was led^'too far to invade- 
the Sove^gnty of Providence", iri&, « it viSre, arrSign 
thff Juilice of lo arbitrary a-DifpofAidn-bf Things, that 
Should ' hide that Light from fome,' and revest it t6 
others, and yet expeft a lifce Dutyfrom both :■ But I 
ihucitup and iheck'd'my Thought* «^lh thisConchi- 
ftjD, fir^. That wc-did. not know by what Light and ■ 
taw thele, Ihould b« condeiini'd-, btftthai^' as.God ivas- 
ocoei&rilyj and, by the liJatUrfe o^" his Being, infinitely 
hafy .and jufti fo it couM hoe be-,- hnt that'if tfiefeCrea- 
itircsrfe/ealifeiWemJ'd'triflliferKe fr«h himfdfi it\was 
ion account ol iiuning figSiWft. ritefrLfght>, which-,' as' tha 
Scripture fays, was a Law to themfelves, and by fu'-h 
Rules, as-their eoBlbieBces would acknowledge to be ju'l 
iiiii;^,the.FDund2tioq wjisnot difcov^r'd to us:- Andj .ffi- 



Google 



< 202 ) 



tDndlji Tli.-vt Hill as we are all the Clay in the. Hand of 
tlieFotter, no Veffel could lay to him. Why hail thou 
Ibrni'd me ihwt,? • 

But to return (o my mew Companion: I was grejtly 
delighteti with him, atwl made it my Bulliieis tu teach 
him every thing that was proper to make hini uleliil, 
handy and helptul; but elpecially to make him fpeik, 
and imdeidand me when 1 Jpake; and lie wastheapleft 
Scholar that ever was, and particular!/ was [o merry^ 
fu conftaiitly diligent, and fo piess'd when lie could bu* 
uiiderftand aie, or make me underftand hini, that it 
was very plealant ;tD_i»jeto,ja]fc to him j and, now my 
Life began to be ft) eafy, thpt i began to fay to.my^-Mi, 
ibat coSd I but have, been fafe from more Savages, I 
cared not if I was never to remove [roai the Place while 
lliv'd. ,., . 

After! had been two or thrcQ bays retutn'd {o my 
Cafrle, Ithougfet, that, in order to bring fj-/<4y off from 
'his horrid way ot teeding, and from the RejiA: of t 
Cannibal's Stomachj I ought to letjiim tafteotjier Fkfli; 
ixj I took IHimoitt yvitb me one ^oriilng to jthe Woirds; 
1 nvcDt, indeed, intending to Jtiti a Kid out of my own 
nocJi, and bring it behK andidirels i(: But. as i was 
going, I laWj-a Sh?-Goat lying.doiyn in the Shade, and 
two young Kids filling, by hsi : V catch'd, htjld.ci'fr*- 
daj, hold, ^^Ijji^ndflili.;. 314 made/ Signs to rbit^ 
nottoftir; immediately I prefented my PiecB^^flioe 
and l(i]l'4 ojre of ,tlie 'RJdB- • Tikp jp'^PiJ Q'eature-, *ho 
had at;a'Di^Rcei Jwict'^ HaSi me kil] the.iavage, M% 
pnemy, bur dMf-Bp^iJsiWT, W «9uld taiRgine.hQW it 
was done, was i'enub^y' lurpriz'd, trem^^d dnd Ihook^ 
and look'd fo amfz'd,.tiiat 1 thoiMbt Jie Would .liave 
funk down : He ^d oot fee the Kid' I had fliot at, or 
perceive I had kill'd it, buB rip'd up. bis,' Waiftooat 10 
feel if he was not woufidcd,} and atd'fijuod, prtrfendj' 
thought 1 was eefolv'd (o kiil bini;, ibrhq Oime and 
Itneel'd dowqCo -aie, and eiqbraciiig. twy Kuee^ Jaid a 
great nfany, Things I did.inet:Vnd«rft«nd, but i eoiild 
eaCly fee that the Meaning was to f/cty ate not to kill 
him. 

I ibon found a Way to convince him diMl-wouUdo 
Urn no Hum, and .ujciug Hm up by the Hud, JlMgh'4 



Goo'. le 



at liim, and pointing to the Kid which t had kill'd^ 
beckon'd lo him, to run and fetch it, which he did ; 
and while he was wondering and looking to fee how 
the Creature was kill'd, I loaded my Gun again, and 
by-and-by I taw a great Fowl, like a Hawk, fit iiputi- 
a Tree within ihot ; fo, to let Fridaji undevfland a iittle 
what I would do, I eall'd him to me again, pointing at 
the Fowl, which was indeed a Parrot, cho' I thought it 
had been a Hawk } I lay, pointing to. the Parrot, and 
to my Gun, and to the Ground under the Parrot, to let 
him lee I would tiiake it fall, I made him und^rfland 
that I would ihoot and kill that Bird i accordingly t 
fir'd, and bad him look, and immediately he faw the 
Parrot fall : He ftood like one frighted again, notwith- 
ftanding all I had laid to bim ; and I found he wss the 
more aniaz'd, becaule he didnoffee me put any thing 
into the Gun ; but thought that there mijll be fomc 
. wonderful Fund of Death' and DeftfUflion in that 
Thing, able to kill Man, Beaft, Bird, or .any thing near 
or At off; for the Aftoniikment this tfreated in hinj, 
was fucb, ascould not wear off for a long time ; and E 
believe, if I would have let him, he WKuld have wor- ■ 
ihip'd me and my Gun." As for the Gun.it felf^ he 
■would not fo much as touch it for feveral Days aJfer ; 
but would I'pcak to it, and talk to it, as if it had aa- 
fwer'd him, when he wasby himlelf ; - wbith as .ti af- 
terward* t^rn'd ot him, was to delire it not to kill Hm. 
Well : After his Aftoni&(»wnt was a little over nt 
tyit, J poiftoed to bim to run and fetich the Bbd I had 
fliot, which be did, but ftay'dJomeTime; for tite Pai- 
rot iwt being quite dead,, was flmter'd a gpcd way otf" 
from the Place where flip felt; how«ver, he fotind her, 
took ber up, and brought her to «ne ;-■ and, as I hai 
perceiv'd Ji is Ignorance abrntf the Gtm beiore, I took 
this Advantage to charge .the Gun again, ajid. not lee 
him lee me do it, that I aughit be ready for any ether 
Mai-k; that might prefent ; but nothing more offer' diC 
that Time ; 16 i brought home the Rid ; and the fame- 
Evening ( look the Skin off, and eut it out as well as I 
could, and having a Pot for that Putpofe, 1 boil'd ct 
. ftew'd fonie of the Flelh, andiiisdc fomc very coedi 
.Biothi sifffif i h»i l»a»n t» 6W fianc.i aavefooia 
• •» 

I Goo' 



( 204 ) 

to my Man, who feenj'd very gUct of it, and lik'd -it 
very well ; but that which was ftrangeft to him, was 
to lee me ?at Salt with it : He ntade a Sign to me, that 
tlw Salt was net good to eat, and putting a little into 
hisown Mouth, he feem'd to nauleate it, and would 
Ipitand fputter at it, wafliing his Mouth with (refli 
Water after it ; tin the other hand, I took fome Meat 
in my Mouth without Salt, and i pretended to fpit and 
Iputter for want of Salt, asTaft as he had done at the 
Salt ; but it would not do, he would never care for 
Salt with Meat, or in his Broth ; at leaft, not a great 
while, and then but a very little. 

Having thus fed him with bcii'd Meat and Broth, I 
was refolv'd to feaft him the next Day with roafting a 

■ Piece of the Rid ; this I did by Imngitig it before the 
Fire in a String, at t had leen many I'eople do in Eng- 
land;, fetting two Poles up, one on each fide the Fiie, 
and one crols on the top, and t) ing the String to the 
crofs Stick, letting, the Meat turn continually : This. 
Friiiay admii'd very much ; but when he came to tade 
the Fleih, he toek fo many ways to tell me how well' he 
iik'd it, that I could not but underftand hinj; and at 
lad he told me he would never eat Man's Flelh any 
more, which I was very glad to hear. 

The n«xt Day I fet hint to work to heating fome Corn 
eut, and fifHtig it in the manner 1 uied to do, aa I ob- 
ferv'd before ; and he loon undfrftood how to do it as 
well as I, efpecfaHyj after he had feen what the Mean- 
ing of it was, and that it was to make Bread of; for 
after that I let htm fee me make my Bread, and bake it 
. ■ ftjo; and in a little Time Friday was able to do all the 

, Work for me, as vtrelt as I could do it my felf. 

i began now to confider, that having two Mouths to 
feed initead of one, I muft provide more Qround for 
my Harveft, and plant a larger Qaantity of Corn than . 
1 Ufed to doi fo I mark'dout a larger Piece ol' Land, 

■and began the Fence in the fame manner as before, in 
■which Fridar not only worlt*d very willingly and very 
)iard, but dW it very chearfully ; and I, tuld him what 

■ it was for, that it was for Corn to make more Bread, 
becaufe he was now with me, and that I might have 

cncugh for biai abd my felf too : Ho appcar'd very ien- 

C.oogle 



( "5 ) 

iible of that Part, and let me know, tliat lie tliougTiC I 
had much mate Labour upon me on his Account, than 
I had tor my fclf ; and that he would work the harder 
for me, if I would lel! him what to do. 

This was the pleafanteft Year of alUhe Life I led ia 
this Place : Friday began to talk pretty well, and un- 
derlland the Names ot almoft every Thing I had Occa- 
lion to call for, and of every Place I had to fend liim to, 
and talk a great deal to me; lb that, in Jhort, 1 began 
now to have Ibme ufe for my Tongue again, which in. 
deed I had very little Occafion for before ; ttal is to 
fay, about Speech : Bsfides the Pleafure of talking to 
htm, I had a firgularSMisfaaioninthe Fellow him[elf ; 
his fimple unteign'd Honefty appear'd to me more and 
more every Day, and I begsn really to love the Cre:u 
ture ; and on his Side, I believe he lov'd me more 
than it was poffiljle for him ever to love any thing be- 

I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering In- 
clination to his own Country again ; and haying learn'd 
him EngUJbio well, that he could anfwerme almofla- 
ny <Ju eft ions, I ask'd him whether the Nation that he 
belong'd to never conijuer'd in Battle? At which he 
fmil'd and faid, Yes, yes, we always fight the better ; 
that is, he meant always get the betierin Pight, and fo wb 
began the following Dilcourfe, You always fight the bet- 
ter, faid I, How came you to be taken Prilbner then 

Vririief. My Nation beat much, for all that. 

Mafier. How beat ; if your Nation beat them, how 
came you to be taken ? 

Friday. They more than my Nation in the Place 
where me was "i they take one, two, three, and me : My 
Nation over-beat them in the yonder Place, where me 
no was -there myNation take one, two, great Thjufand. 

Mafier. But why did not your Side recover ybufrfim 
the Hands of your Enemiesthen? ' .| 

Friday. They run one,'two, three, and me, and nnakft 
g,o in the Canoe ; my Natitm have no Carui that Time, 

Mafter. Welf, frids^^ and what does your Nation' d6 
with the Men they take ? Do they carry them awaj^ 
and eat them,' as tJiefi did ? '■■"' ' ■ .~i:v..-)r 



i by Google 



{ iq6 ) ' 



Friday. Yes, mj' Nation eat Man's too, eat all up. 

Mailer. Where do they carry them i* 

Friday. Go to other PUee where they think. 

AlajUr. Do they come hither? 

Friday. Yes, yea, they come hither ; come other elfe 
riace. 

M^er. Have yoii been here with them ? 

Friday. Yes, 1^ been here : \Joiats h thi N. W. Side 
nf the IjUad, which, it feems, v>as their A'ife.j 

By this I underftood, that my Man Friday liatl former- 
ly been among the Savages, whp ufed to come on Shore 
on the farther Part of.thelllaiid, on.theiaid Man-eat- 
ing Occalionsthathewaa now.btQught for} and Ibnie 
time atter, when I took the Courage to carry him to 
that Side, being the fame I formerly mention'd, he pre- 
fently knew the Place, and told me, lie was there unce 
when they eat up Twenty Men, two Women, and one 
Child; He could not tell twenty in Ej(gii/&, but he 
nmtibec'd them by laying fo many Stones in a Row, and 
pointing to, me to tell them over. 

I have told this Paf&ge, beeaufe it introduces whut 
follows ; tliat after I had had this Difcourfe with him, 
I ask'dbimhowfarit was from our liland to the Shoie, 
?nd ivhether tfce Camei were not often loft ( He told me 
there was no Danger, no Canoes ever lott ; but that af- 
ter a little way ou,t Xo Sea, there ivas a Current, and a 
Wind always axis ,Way in the Morni,ng, the other in 
the'AIternoon. 

This I .underfiood to he nomorethanthcSetsofthe 
,^iale, as going out, or coming jn \ but I afterwards un- 
tlerftood it was occafion'd by the great Draft and -Re- 
sult of the mighfy River Oros/oo^te \ in the Mouth, of 
.wbigh .River, as 1 tlwifght afterwards, ojirlfland lay; 
andihattlus Land!^ whiAJ perceived .to ^ic Wi and 
N.^. was the great Jiland, TrimM,.^ oh, the NortJi 
Tointt^the Mouth df J^ejliver i I a^d Friday a thou- 
ftnd Qiieftions about iha-J^matty, the Inhabitants,, the 
Sci^ thpCflafti.itndwfca't, Nations were near } ietold 
PK all Jie fcnew, with tha gfeateft Opennefe iniagiiabie : 
1 asfc'd hill) the Names of the. feveral Xationi of his 
ior.t ofpeople, .Itat coujd get oo other Name than Cmihs ; 
'fiom whence I eafily urdcrftogd, tjjat tl^fe iwere tte 



K,sle 



■Caribbets, which our Maps place on that Part of ^»^e- 
j rka, wliicb reaches 'from the Mouth of tlie River Oriw- 
wqut to Gttiaa^t sad onwards tu St. Martha,: He told 
JBC that up a great way beyond the Mpoti, that waj, 
beyond the letting of the Moon, which muft be W. 
tVoni theic Country, there dwelt white.bearded Mei^ 
like me ; and pointed to my great Whisiters, which 1 
tnention'd belbre ; and that they liad Jiiil'd much Mam^ 
that W/is bis Wotd : By all which I underftood he 
meant the Spanianis, whofe Cruekies in AmeTita. Iiad 
been Ipi-ead over the whole Coisntries, and were re- 
member'd by all the Nntions from Father to Son. 

1 enquired if lie Coui<i tell me how t njiglrt come fi-otn 
this Ifland, and get among thofe white Men i he told 
nie, Yes, yes, I might go in (wu Can^e ; I could not 
underftand what he meant by t-m Canr^ft til! at, Inft, with 
great Di-fficulty, I ftund he nfcewH, that ic rtiuft be in a 
Targe great Boat, as big as tiae Comes. 

1;his. F^rtof frid^'t Pifcourfe, began to rplifii witfe 
nie very well ; and: ifova this ■.time X entertain'd. (ooic 
Hopes, that (metiiaeor ojiVte*!' might findan Opjwr- 
tunity to make my' Bfcape from this Place, and that 
this poor Savage might _ fe a means- to help jne t6 
do it. ' 

Daring the longt tifflp that 7rid<^ had fv^yt. been widl 
-me, and.thaf'be began to l-'^ie^k tn \tbe, Mi tuiderftftml 
me, i.wj« ntft^w^rting to lay » Foundfttionof (eljgioio 
Kno!wledgeinhisIMifl& J parcieulwly, I atltM bino one 
tim^ vk'hg nia4e .Mm? Theipoor'CpoaiarfciidootiUM- 
dei;ftiiBd.iiiie'stail, b«i: thought I ■Jwda^dvfho ,was 
his Father i But i ioo\t it by anotbef Handle, and 
ask'd bim who made the Sea, the Groand be walk'd 
■on, -and tfee .HiIJa *fid Xpood*,? Hf told mei, it was 
*)tL&i)lfl £da«**("t«,-tb<ii lived befioadi'aUi He .ctrald 
4ef?iijb4, cothii^ i<i"thisgr(!a8'PMl«n, . but.tbat.be was 
yerytli ;. mitth: elder, .ht (ai4, riiaathaSe'^-or the 
{-^hd, than iht Modd or tbe %ars : 'I <E^*<d Mm iheo, if 
thi$. eld Parfon had, inade all things, why' did not all 
tliiBgS Worftiiphim ? He ioek'd very grave, and with 
a p^ffitft iiooli o4'iIi»l!Dcence,.rai^, M tbiifis jald Q it 
hiDi.;,\ti^]^ ilim, if the People whoidie in ^Country, 



, Google 



JSemmaclee : Then f ask'd him, whether thefe they 
cat up went thither too ? He faid. Yes. 

From thele Things I began to inftruft him in the 
Knowledge of the true God. I told Iiim, that the great 
Maker ol all Things lived up there, pointing up to- 
wards Heaven : IhaC he governs the World by the 
fame Power and Providence by which lie had made it : 
That he was Omnipotent, could do every thing for ua, 
give every thing to us, take every thing from us ; and 
tlius, by Degrees, I open'd his Eyes ; He liftcn'd with 
■great Attention, and received with Pleafure the Noti. 
on of ^efus Cfoiiji being lent to redeem US, and of the 
manner of making our Prayers to God, and his being 
able to hear us, even into Heaven ; He told me one 
Day, that if our God could hear tis up beyond the Sun, 
he muft needs be a greater God than their Jiettammkef, 
who liv'd but a little way off, and yet could not hear, 
till they went up to the great Mountains where he 
dwelt, to fpeak to him : I ask'd him, if ever he went 
thither to Ipeak to him : He laid, No, they never wfent 
that were your>g Meft; none went thither but the old 
Men, who he caH'd their OeWokaL-e , that is, as I made 
himenplain it. to me, their Religious, or Clergy ; and 
that they went to fay 0, (fo he cail'd faying Prayer^} 
and then came l>ack, and told them whaS Bentfnudie 
faid : By this I oblerv'd, that" there is Tfitfitri^t even 
.amongft the moft blindfed ignorant Pagans in the AVorldj 
ftndthe Pbli<9yot making a feCret Kellgjon, in order to 
■prefwve the Veneration pt thd People to the C\ergy, 
is.notonly toba found in the Ro/tfun, |hnt perhaps^ i- 
Biongall Religions in the World, even among the moil 
brutltii and barbarous Savagtg. 

lendeavour'dioclfar.up thisFpaud to my Man Fr'i- 
A^j and' told fiim,' that the Pretence of theif bid' Meft 
goingup tolbeModntainS'toiayO totbcir'Ood hen^ 
mitcbf€^ was a Cheati andi thfiir-t^ingihg' Wowi ftoirt 
thence ^ teiijitifaid, was nMlch> mereifs ; tbatifffley 
raec with anyAnlWer,- nr-fpoke-'AvIth^anyo'ne ih9i-^' I* 
muft be withanevil'Spirit."' And xheiv'I entefd Ifito a 
long IKfcOityre with him abom the DevH,' the OfgiJiaJ 
.ef him, hisRebellion againftGod, iisEnmtiwtoMlni 
' «he ftinfiin«G^ ^bi< ftittii^'iiiBirelt^ uiiviQlketf^ft Kh* 
- ■■- V e£ 



Gooj^Ic 



( 269 ) 



ofthe World to l>e worlhip'd inftead ofGodjandasGod; 
and the many Stracagejns he made ule of^ to delude 
Mankind to their Ruin ;- how he had a fecret Accels to 
ourPaifions, and to our AiFcftions, to adapt bisSnares 
fo to cur Inclinations, as to caufe us even to be our own 
Tempters, and to run upon our own Deftruaion by our 

I found it was notfoeafy to imprint right Notions in 
his Mind about the Devil, as it was about the Being of 
a God : Nature aflifted all my Arguments to ev idcnce 
to him even the Neceffity of a great firft Caufe, and 
over-ruling governing Power, a lecret. direfling Pro- 
vidence, and of the Hquity and Juflice of paying Ho- 
mage to him that made us, and the like : But there ap- 
pear'd nothing of all this in the Notion of an evil Spi- 
rit, of his Origir.al, his Being, his Nature, and above 
all, of his inclination to do Kvil, and to draw us into 
do fo too : Andthe poor Creature puzzled me once in 
fuch a manner, by a Qiieftion merely natural and inno- 
cent, that I fcarce kne\v what to fay to him : 1 had 
been talking a great deal to him of the Power of God, 
his Omnipotence, his drcadtui AverJion to Sin, his be- 
ing a eonfuming Fire to the Workers of Iniquity ; how, 
ashe had itiade us all, he could deftrny us and all the 
World in a Moment; and he liften'd with great Seri- 
oufnefs to me all the while. 

After this, I had been telling him bow the Devil 
was God's Enemy in the Hearts of Men, and us'd all 
his Malice and Skill to defeat the good Deiigns of Pro- 
vidence, and to ruin the Kingdom of Chrill in the 
World, and the like : Well, fays Friday, but you fay, 
God is lb ilrong, fo great, is he not much ftrong, mucK 
might as the Devil? Yes, yes, fays I, fridar, God is, 
ftronger than the Devil,God is above theDevi],and there 
fore we pray to God to tread him under our Feet, and 
enable us to refift his Temptations, and quench his fie- 
ry Darts. But, fays he again, ifGtidmac/jfirsi^, much 
tnijibt as the Devil, rvOj GcA m kill the Devil, fo make 
him no mere miiked ? 

I was ftrangely lurpriz'd at his Queftion, and after all, 
tbo' I was now an old Man, yet 1 was but a young 
Doftor, and ill enough qualified for 2 Ca&uft, or a. SoP; 



, Google 



Tor of Difficulties: Ar.d, at firft, I could not tell wliat 
to lay i fo I pretended not to hear him, and ask'd him 
what he laid ! But ho was too earneft for an Antwei to 
(Orget his Qiieftion ; fo that he repcaeed it in the very 
ibiwe brolten Woidsj as above. By this time I had re- 
Covcr'd myfetf a lutle, aild I faid, GoA wiUat lafi pimip> 
him ^iverely^ be li referv'il fcr the judgment, and is lo 
be ci^i iota the ' bottewlefs Pit, ta dpieli Vfith e^erlafliyig 
fire : 1 bis did net fatisfy Fndtef, but he returns upon 
me, repeating ra.y Words, Refiive at Laft, me no un- 
derjiaad ; But wiiy ntt kill the Devil »«w, nut kiS great s. 
go -' Ycu may as well ask me, [aid I, why God does not 
kill you and I,' when we do wicked things here that o^. 
fend him : We are preferVed to repent and be pardon'd. 
He niufes a while at this ; Wtll, veil, lays he, mighty 
- affeaiofiately, tbat -meli ; foycu, /, Devil, all xoitktd, all 
preferve-, repent, Gsdpardon aH : Here I was run down 
again by him to the laft degree, and it was a Teftinio- 
ny to me, how the mere Notions olNature, tho' they 
will guide reafonable Creatures to the Knowiedjie of a 
God, andof a WorJhip or Homage due to the Supreme 
Being of God, as the Confcqueoce of our Nature ; yet 
Bothing but Divine Revelation can form the Knowledge 
of %«i Chrifl, and of a Redemption purchas'd for us ; 
of a Mediator of a neiv Covenant, and of an Intercef- 
for, at the Footftool of God's Throne ; 1 lay, nothing 
but a Revelation from Heaven can form thefe in the 
Soui) and that therefore the Gd 'pel of our Lord and 
Saviour fifuv Cbrijt, 1 mean* the Word of God, and 
llie Spirit of God, promifed for the Guide and San Aifi- 
er of his People, are the abfolutely neceflary Inftrua.jrs 
ol"tbeSoulsof Menio the faving Knowledge of God, 
and the means of^Salvation. 

I therefore diverted the prefent Difcourfc between me 
and my Man, rifirg up haflily, as upon feme fudden 
Occafion of going out ; then lending him for fom^thing 
a good way-ofl^ I feiioufly pra/d to God, that he 
would cnaWe ms to infh-uft favingly this poor Savage, 
affilling liy liis Spirit the Heart of the poor ignorant 
Creature, to receive thi Uglit of the Knowiedge of God 
ifa CSri/f, ^reconciling him to himfelf, and would guide 
me to fpeak fo to him from the Word of God, as his 
■ Coa- 



Goo^Ie 



Coiifcienoe might be eortvinc'd, his Eyn open'd, anj 
his Soul faY'd : Vfhea he came again to me, I enter'd 
into a long Difcourle with him upon the Subjeift of 
the Retteirtption of Mati by the Saviour of the WorSd, 
and of tlwj Dioftrine of the Gcripel preach'd from Hea- 
ven, vix- of Repentance tij\tards God, and Faith in oUr 
bleiled Lord Jejiij : I then explain'd to him, as well as 
I could, why our bleffed Redeemer took not on hiiti, 
the Nature'of Angels, but the Seed of jibrabam, and 
how for that Realun the tallen Angels had no Share ia 
t!ie Redemption; that be came only to the loll iheep 
of the Houfe oflfrael, and ,rhe like. 

I hadj God knoivff more Sincerity than Knowledge, 
in all the-Mechods [took forthis poor Creatures In- 
ftrufHon, and muft acknowledge what 1 believe all 
that sft upon the fame Principle will find, that in 
lading I'hings open to him, I really infbrm'd and 
inftrufted my felt" in many Things that either I did not 
know, or had not fully confider'd before ; but which 
■oceurr'd naturaly to my mind, npon my feardiing into 
them, for the Information of this poor Savag,e; and I 
had more A ffeftion in ■ my Eriquiry after Things upon 
this Occafion, Chen ever I felt before; fo that whether 
this poor wild Wretch was the better for me or no, I 
had great-lleaibn to be thankful that ever be came to 
me : My Grief fet lighter upon me, my Habitation 
jrew contfortaHe to me beyond meafure, and when I 
reflefted that in this fplttary Lift which I had been con- 
fin'dtoo, J'h^ not only becnmot'd my felf to look up 
to Heaven; and' toTedt'to thi Hand that brought me 
there, but vias now to be m^de an InftrUmcnt, under 
Providence,, to fa ve the Life, and, for oi^bt tknew, the 
SottI ofSprabr Savage, and bring Miii to the true Know- 
ledge of Religion, and of the Chriftian Doftrine, that 
he might kmjw ChriftJeluSj (p i/mm whim is Z'fe e'ernal, 
I fay, wherilrefleacd upon all thefe things, a fecret 
Joj> run thro" every I'art of my Soul^ ^nd I frequently 
rejoiced that ever ' ''^^ bi^paght ia this Place, whlcft 
Ihadfodttenthoughtthe molt dreadiblbf all Afflifti- 
ens, tiiat could pofliblyhaTcbefsHen inc. 



..Google 



( ill ) 

In this thankful Frame I continued al! the RemainJe 
of my Time, and the Converdtioii which employ'd tli. 
Hours betwefn Friday and I, was fuch, as made th( 
three Years whicli we liv'd tiiere togecher, perrefllj 
'and compleatlj' happy, if any [ucb Jbntg as c.-'n/fUn 
Happinefs can bejcrm'ii in a fublumry State -■ T lie Sa 
vflge ivas now a good Chriftian, a much better than I ; 
thu' 1 have Kealon to hupe, and blel's God lor ic, th^i 
■we were equally penitent, and comibrted reftored Pe 
uitenCs: Vke had here the Word of CJod to read, and m 
farther off from his Spirit to inftruft, than if we had 
been in England. 

I always apply'd me felf to reading the Scripture, and 
to let him Jtntjw, as well as i cculdj the Meaning of what 
I read; and he again, by his lerious Enquiries and 
Queflions, made me, as I jaid bujcre, a much better 
Scuolar in the Scrip tore -Knowledge, than I lliould ever 
have been by my own private mccr reading : Anutbcr 
thing I cannot refrain trom obfervinghereaifo from Ex- 
perience, in this retired part of my Life, vij. How in- 
*iiite and inexpreffible a ISleffingit is, that llie K.now- 
ledge of God, and of the Dettrine of Salvation hyCbri^ 
Sejus, is fo plainly laid down in the Word of God, fa 
eafy to be rcceiv'd and iinderllood,, that as the bare 
reading the Scripture made me capable ofunderftand- 
ing enough of my Duty to carry me direitly on to the 
great. Work of iincere Repentance for my Sins, and lay- 
ing hold of a Saviour for Liie and Salvation, to a Hated 
^etbrmation in Praaice, and Obedience to all God's 
Commands, and this without any Teacher or Inftruftor, 
(\ mean, human J fothe fame pbin Inilrui^ion luifiri- 
eritSy ferv'd to the enlightning this lavage Creature, 
and bringing him to he fuch a Chriftian, as- I have 
known lew equal to him in my Life, 

As to theDifputes, Wranglings, Strife, and Conten- 
tion, which has happen'd in the World about Religion, 
whetlier Niceties in Dodrines, or Schemes ofChuvch- 
<3ovemment, fhey were aJl perfcflly ufelelsto us, as ?oi 
ought I can yet fee, they have !jeen to all the *eft in 
the World ; We bad theirs Gfiide to Heaven, w'^- the 
Word of God ; and we had, bViffid be Ged, comfortable 
yiews of the Spirit of Godj teaching and inftruflirg us 

by 



by his WorS, leading us into all Troth, an^ niaking ui' 
both willing and obedient to the Inttruftion ot his 
Word ; and 1 cannot fee the leaft life that the greateil 
Knowledge of the difputed Points in Religion, which 
have made fuch Ojnfulions in the World, would hare 
ken to us, if" we could iiave obtained it : But I muQ: 
go on with ths'Hiftorial Part of Things, and take every 
fart in its Order. 

After ir/iAy and I Irecame more in ti mat el y acquaint- 
ed,' and tliat he cciild underftand almoft all 1 iaid to 
liim, and fpeak fluently, tho' in broken EngUjIi, to me ; 
1 acquainted him with my own Story, or at leaft fa 
much oFit as relatedto my coming into the Place, how 
I bad liv'd there, and how long ! I let him into the 
Myftery ( for fuch it was to him } of Gunpowder and 
BuIItt, and taught him how to flioot ; I gave him a 
Knil'c, which he was wonderfully delighted with, and 
1 made him a Belt, with a Frog hanging to it, fuch as 
in Engl atui \we wear Hangersin; and in the Frog, in. 
ftead.of a Hanger, I gave him a Hatchet, wliich was 
not. only as good a Weapon in fome Cafes, hut much 
more ufeful upon many Occafions. 

1 defcrib'd to him the Countrjs of Europe, and parti- 
cularly England, which I came from ; how we liv'd, 
how we worlhip'd God, how we behav'd to one ano- 
iber; and how we traded in Ships to all the Parts of 
tile Wcrld: I ga»ehiman Account of the Wreck which 
I had been on board of, and iliew'd him as near as I 
«ttld the Place -where Jbe lay ; but ihe was all beaten 
in Pieces long before, and quite gone. 

I ihew'd him the Ruins of our Boat, which we Joft 
when wa'fcap'd, and which I could not ftir with my 
^'hoJe Strength then, but was now fallen almoft all to 
Piects; Upon feeing this Boat, friJay flood mufing a 
fifeat while, and faid nothing ; I ask'd him what ic 
ivas be ftudied upon ; at kit, iajs he, me fee fuch Bnat 
'ike cotne U Place at my Nalirn. 

I did not ntiderflaiid him a good while •, but at laft, 
when I had examin'd tiirther into it, I underilood by 
him, tha'ta.Eoat, fuch as that had been, came on (here 
Kpon the Cijuntry where he liv'd, that is, as he ck- 
plain'djt, lyas driven thither by Strefs of Weather:,! 
prefent. 



.;, Google 



ipKfenrfy ioiagirfd, that &itas Eurtfeiht Shifi wkH have 
Leen caft away upon,tlieir Cqail, and the Boat/iiight 
get \ooSe, and drive aribore, but. was Jg dull, rtbat I ne- 
ver, oDce, thottght ^'Meo making efcape from a Wreck 
thither, much le& whence they might come; fo I only 
cnquir'd after a Dereription of the lioat. 

Friday <!eferiii*d the Boat to tiie well enotigh ; but 
brought me tetter to underlland himj when he added, 
with fome Warmth, [fei&w**^ rahite Mans froMj drimn : 
Then I prefently a^'a him, if there were any whiw 
Mans, as he caU'd them, in the BoM? Tes, he laid, 
the Beat fnU- tj vebite.Mrms : • I ask'd him how raanyi' 
He told upon his Fiflgers.feventeen. I ask'd him then 
what became of 'em.' Hetoldnie, Thty liv:,ib:j dvid 
at my Natisn> 

This put new Thcp^ts into my Head again ; for I 
pi-efently imaftin'd, that dsxMe miijht . be tlie hien belorg- 
iug to the Ship that wss oaft away in iSght of rmy lllard, 
-as I now call it ; and whp, after the. ahip. was ftruirk 
Cji the Rock, and they law herineyitahij^ ioft, badfav'd 
tbemfelres in their. £k>ac, And wers Uuded apon th^c 
wild Shore, among the Savages. 

Upon this, I enquir'd of him more critically, ■ 
was become of them; he aittWd methey.liv'dftill there; 
that they had been there about four Years; that the Sit 
vages let them alone, and gave tham Viiiuals to live 
lask'd binj, how it came to pafe they did not kill thera 
and eat them ? He fwd, No, tbsy vr<{h Brother wlh 
wew; that ^, us I uiiderCtood him, aTtuce: Andthoi 
lie added, Thi^y m eat Mans but nh^ti wwl'e tbe W'" 
fgU : That is to lay, they never eat any Men, hut fucli 
as come to fight with them, and ace taken in Battel. 

It was after this, ibme coniiderahle Tiaie, that being 
on the Top of the Hill, at the Esft fide of^the Ifland, 
^om whence, as I have faid, I had in it clear Day dil- 
covet'4 the Main or Continent of Amriiai, Fr'i'day, the 
Weather bein^ very ferene, looks very caroefliy 
wards the mam Land, and in a kind of Surprize 
a jumpingand dancing, and calls out tome, for I was 
at fome Diftance from him; I ask'd him what was the 
Matter ; Jy- •' dys he, Glad 1 Ti>ere fee «gK Coub: 
t^ttberet^Hatm-i ,.\. . 

■ j lob- 



•( "5 )' 

I wbferv'd an exttaordinacy Senle o£ Pleafure appear'4 
in his face, and his Eyes fparkled, and bis Countenance 
difco/er'd a ilran^e Eagernefs, as if he had a Mind Co 
be in his own Couiiti')'. again; and this Olilbrvation of 
mine put a great many Thoughts into me, which made 
nie at tirft not lb eafy about my new Man Fridaj', as I 
was before ; and I made no doubt, but that il' iriri'ajr 
could get back to his own Nation again, he would not 
only lorget all his Religion, but all his Obligation tu 
me; and would he forward enough to give his Coun- 
trymen an Account of me, and t^me back perhaps, 
with a Hundred or two oi thtm, and make a Feaft upon 
nie, at which he might be as mein as he ufed to be 
with thofc of his Enemies, when tliLj wei^e taken in 
War. . , 

But 1 wrong'd the poor honeft Creature very much, 
for which I was very foiry aiierwards : However as 
my Jealoufy increas'd, and held me Ibine Weeks, 1 was 
i little more circumfpefL and not fo familiav and kind 
to him as before ; in which I was certainly In tVhe wroi^ 
too, the honeft grateful Creature havit^ ns ^"bought 
about it, but what coniifted with the bell Principics, 
both as a religious Cliriftian, and as a grateful Friend, 
asappear'd alterwards to my full SatisfaAion. 

While my Jealouly of him lailed, you may-be fure I 
was every pay pumping him to fee it he would dilco- 
yer any oflhe new Thoughts, which I fufpeifted were 
in him ; but I foand every thing he faid was fo honert, 
and lo innocent, that I could jind nothing to iiQuriih 
my Sufpicion ; and, in fpite of all my Unealliieis, he 
made nie at laft entirely liis own again ; nor did he 
in the leaft pcrceivci-that I -was uneafy, and therefore 
1 could not fufpea him of Deceit. 

I One Day, walkirtg.up.the fame Hill, but the Wea- 
ther being hazyat 5ea, i'l) that we could not lee the 
Continent, I call'd to him, and Taid, Friday, do not 
you wi]h your felf in yqur own Country, your owa 
Nation ? Tes, he faid,: / be mueh Ogiad, to be at my '.von 
^atkn: What would you do there, laid I, would you 
turn wild again, eat Mens Flelh again, ajid be a Sa- 
vage as ybu were before? He look'd full of Concern, 
^ Uialiing his Head, faid, No^ no, Friday feJt tbtfi.ta 
live 



■■-, Google 



( JlS ) ■ 

iive god, teS tbem to pray God, uS tbem to e^ Corn. 
bread, Cattk^fjb, Milk ; no eai Man again : Why then, 
did I to him, riy viiU kill yeu : He look'd grave at 
that, and then Taid, Ap, tkej no kill me, they Toillin^ 
hve learn -■ He meant by this, tliey would be wiUing to 
learn ; He added, they learn d niucli of the bearded 
Wans that eama in the Boat: Then I ask'd him, ifUe 
would go back to them ? He iinil'd at that, and told 
me he could not fwinj fo far \ \ told him I would 
make a Canoe for hini ; He told me, he would go, if I 
would go with him. I go! fays I, why, they will eac 
me if I come there; A'w, no, lajs he, trie make tbey m 
eat ycu, me mnie tbey mueb love you : He meant, he 
would tell them how I had killed his Enemies, and iav'd 
his Life, and fo he would make them love mc : Then 
he told me, as well as he could, how kind they were xa 
fcventeen white Men, or bearded Men, as he call'd 
them, who came on Shore there in Diftrefe. 

From this Time, i coniefs, I had a mind to venture 
over, and fee if I could poflibly join with thofe lieard- 
ed Men, who, [ made s\o doubt, wsre Spaniariis or P.r- 
tagiiefe ; not doubting bat, if I could, we might find 
fotne Method to efeape ti-om thence, being upon tlie 
Continent, and a good Company together, better than 
I could from an lllard forty Miles cfl'ihe Shore, anda- 
lone without help : So, -after Ibme Days, 1 took t'rida.} 
to work again, by way of Dileourfe ; and told him, i 
wouid give him a Boat to go back to his own Nation | 
and accordingly I carry'd him to my Frigate, whieli 
lay on the other Side of the Ifland, and having clear'd 
it ofWater f for I always kept it funk in the Water) I 
broughi it out, liieWd it him; and we both went into it. 
I found he was a moft de^ttrous Fellow at managing 
it, would make it go almoft ;is fwift and lad again as I 
'Could i fo when be was in, I- laid to hlni. Well, now, 
Friday, fliall we go to ytur Nation ? He look'd very 
■dull at mv laying fr, which, it feems, wasbeeaufehe 
ihought the Boat too fmall to go lb far : I told him then , 
I had a bigger ; fo the next Day \ went to the Pla« ', 
where the hrft Boat lay which I had made, but which 
I could not get into the Water ; he faid that was big 
enough ; but then, as I had taken no Carc.of i^ and it 
bad 



riiv.Goo' 



,^W 



( '-y ) 

had lain two or three and twentj- Years there, the Sun 
had Iplit and drj'd it, that it was in a manner rotten. 
Friday to\d me, liich a Boat would do very well, and 
ivould carry much encugb ViUk, Drinl\ £naii, that 
was his way of Talking. 

Upon the Whole, I was by this Time lb fis'dupon 
tnyDelign of going over with him to the Continent, 
that I told him we would go and make one as big as 
that, and he Jhould .go home in it. He anfwtr'd not 
one Word, but look'd very grave and lad." I ask'd liini 
what was the Matter with him; he ask'd me again ■ 
thus, iri/ ycu angry mad vtitb Friday, vibat me d tuf 
1 ask'd bim what he meant; I told him I was not an- 
gry with bim at all ; Noangryi Njarfgr^! fays he, re- 
pealing the Words feveral tinies, Wilff (end Friday b^me 
aviay to rriy Naiion ? W hj, fays I Fridays did you not 
fay you wifh'd you were there ? a>f, yes, fays l;e 
mjh be both Ihere, notpilh Friday (ierf, no Majier thae, 
Inaword, he woald -not think of going there without 
me : I go there, Friday^ fays [, what fliall i do there ? 
He turn'd very i]uick upon nie at iliis : Tm do great 
deal much Good, fays be, ycu teath villd Mans he good 
jober tame Mans ; you teU ibim tnow Gi'd, pray Gcd, and 
live mw Life : Alas, f'riday, fays 1, thoa knwveft not 
what thou fay'll, X am but an ignorant Man my lelf. 
3t;f, yes, fays he, yiu teaih:e me Good, you tcOebee tbem 
Goid. No, no, Friday, fays I, you Ihall go without 
me, leave me here to live by my felf, as I 'did- l>eJ-brc: 
He look'd confas'd again at that Wordi ""d running to 
one ot -the Hatchets, which be tis'd to wear, he lakes 
it up halliiy, and giv«s it me ; what muft I do wkh 
tills ^ lays 1 to him ; Tcu taie Ull Friday, fays he : 
What muft I kill you for ^ faid [ again; He returns 
vtry({uick, U-bat you find Friday awjy /or .-' take kill 
Friday, no firJ Friday away ; This he fpoke lb ear- 
neftlj, that 1 faw Tears (land in his Eyes ; Inaword, 
I lb plairly dilcover'd the utmoft Afifeaion in hidi to 
me, and a firm Refolution in hiin, that I tojd him 
then, and often after, that 1 would never fend him away 
from me, if lie was willing to liay with me. 

Upon the whole, as 1 found by all his Difcourfea 
fettled AflTeiStion lo me, and that notliing ihould part 
i- him ' 



Google 



( 2>8 ) ■ 

him from me, To I' found all the Foundation of his De- 
Itre to go to his own Country, was laid in his ardent ^ 
AfFeiiion to the People, and his Hopes of my doing i 

-them good; a Thirg, which as i had no Notion of 
my felr. To I had not the kali Thought, or Intention, or | 
Delire of midertdkirg it : But ilill 1 found a ftrong 
Inclination to my attempting an Eicape, as above, 
founded on the Suppofition gather'd from the tbrmerDil- 
courfe, f/f. That there were feverteen bearded Men 
there, and therefore, without any Delay, I went to work 
with ¥iiilaj, to find out a great Tree proper to fell, 

' and make a large Periagua or Canoe t.j undertake the 
Voyage : There were i rees enough in the Ifiand to 
have huilt a little Fleet, not ol Pcriagua's and Canoes 
«nly, hut even of good largeVeffelE: But the mainThing 
1 look'd at, was to get one fo near the Water that ivc 

■ might launch it when it was made, to avoid the Miftake 
1 committed at firft. 

At lail, Friiiaj pltch.'d upon a Tree ; for 1 found he 
knew much better than i, what kind of Wood was fit- 
tcft for it i nor can 1 tell, to this Day, what Wood tu 
call the Tree we cut down, eucifpt that it was very like 
the Tree we call i'ujiu^ or between that and the iijcu- 
ra^ua Wood, for it was much of the lame Colour Bnd 
Smel! : Fridiy was tor burning the Hollow or Cavity 
of this Tree out, to make it into a Boat: But I ihew'd 
him'how rather to cut it out with Tools, which after I 
fliewM him how to ule, he did very handily, and in 
about a Month's hard Labour we finifh'd it, and made 
it very hanilfdme, efpecially when with our Axes, 
■which Pftiew'd him how to handle, we cut and hew'l 
the Out-fide into the true Shape oi a Boat ; after this, 
however, it coft us near a Fdrtnights Thne to get 
lier along, as it were. Inch-by Inch upon great Row!. 

■ «rs into the Water ; But *hen ftie was in, fne wouU 

■ have carried twenty Men with gi-eat Eal'e, 

When (he wa# in the Water, and tho= lire, was:ib big, 
it amBl'd me to fee with what Dexterity and how fwift 
. my Man Eyiday would mafiage^her, turn Tier, and pad- 
dle her alorg- foi ask'd him ifhe ^voutd, aftd" if wc 
might venture over in her ; Tis, he fat<l,Ae venter ever in 
- ber wytviU, tbc-u^b-^riatbUmWind: However, I had 

r GoO' I 



( ^'5 ) 

a fartlier Defign tliat he knew notlnjig of, and that 
was tomiki-'a Maft and Sail, and Co lit ber with an 
Anchor and Cable : As to a Maft, that was eafy enough 
to get; lb £ pitch'd upon a fttaic young Cedar-Tree, 
which I found near the Place, and which there was 
great Plenty ol iiitheiHandl and I fet Irl^aj to wnilc 
to cut it down, and gave lum Direiftions how to fliaf e 
and order it : But as to the Sail, that w.is my parcicu- 
kr Care ; I knew I liad old Sails, or rather I i;ees of 
old Sails enough ; but as I had them now 26 Years by 
me, and had not been very careful to preferve them, 
not imagining that I Ihoiild ever have this kind ol ule 
for them, I did not doubt but they were all rotten ; and 
indeed moft of them were lb ; however, J found two 
Pieces whicli appenr'd pretty good, and with thefe I 
went to work, and with a great deal of Pains, and auk- 
ward tedious iUtching ( you may be fure J for Want of 
Needles, I at length made a threc-corner'd ugly Thing, 
like what we call in England, a Shoulder, oi- Mutton - 
Sail, to go with a Boom at Bottom, at>d a little Ihort 
Sprit at the Top, fuch as ufually our Ships Long-Eoats 
fail with, and fuch as I heft knew how to manage ; be- 
caul'e it was fu^h a one as 1 bad to the Boat in which I 
made my Elcape from Barbary, as related in the firft 
Part of my Story. 

I was rear two Months performing this l^ft Work, 
v'lX- rigging and fitting niy Maft and Sails ; for I ft- 
niili'd them very compleat, making a liimll Stay, and a 
Sw.1, or Forefail to it, Co alfilt, if we ihouid turn to 
Windward; and which was more than all, I fix'd a 
Rudder to the Stern of her, to fleet with; and tho' 
1 was but a bungling Shipwright, yet as I knew the 
Uleiulnefs, and even Neceffity of liichaThing, I applied 
niy felf with lo much .Pains to do it, that at iaft t 
brought it to pafs, tho' confidering the many dull Cor- 
Irivanoes I had for it that fail'd, 1 think it coll me al- 
moin as much Labour as making the Boat. 

After ail this was d.one , I had my Man.fr/i?iy to 
teach as to what belong'd to the Naviftacion of my Boat; 
for tho' he knew very well how to paddle the Canoe, 
he knew nothing what belong'd to a Sail and a Rudder, 
<and was tbcaiijll anuz'd when he faw me work the 
'L 2 Boat 

. I Goo' 



't 



.( 220 ) 

Boat too aticl .again in ibe Sea by the Ruddc:-, and hffiT 
the Sail g)b"d, and fill'd tliis Way or that Way, as the 
Courie, we fail'd, chang'd i I iay, when he law this, 
he Hood like one aftonilh'd and .aiiiaz'd ; Howei'er, 
with a little Ule, 1 made all thefe Things familiar to 
him, and he became an expert Sailor, exi:ept that as to 
the Compals, I could nialie him underfiand very lit- 
tle ofthat : On the (jtbtr Hand, as there was very 
little cloudy Weather, and feldom or never any Fogs in 
thoie Parts, there was the lefs Oecafioo tor a Com- 
pals, leeing the Slavs ivere always to be leen by Night, 
and the Sliore by Day, except in the rainy Sealons, 
and then no Body cared to Hit abroad, either by Land 
or Sea. 

I was now enter'd on the feven and t\ventieth Year 
oi my Captivity)- in this Place i though the three lafi 
Yeai-s that I had this Creature with mc, ought rather 
to be kit out of the Account, my Habitation being 

?uite of another kind than in all the rell of the Time, 
kept the Anniverfary of my landing here with th« 
lame Thankiulnefs to God for his Mercies, as at firft ; 
and if I had fueh Caule of Acknowledgment at firil:, 
I had inuah more fo now, having fuch additional Te- 
ftimonies of the Care of Providence over nie, and the 
great Hopes I had of being effcaually and fpeedily de- 
li ver'd ; fori had an invincible Impreffion upon my 
Thoughts, that my Deliverance was at hand, and that 
I Ihoald not be another Year in this I'iace : However, 
I went on with my Husbandry, digging, planting, 
fencing, as ulkal ; I gather'd and our'd my Grapes, and 
did every neceHary Thing, as before. 

The rainy Seafon was in the mean time upon me, 
when I kept more within Doors than at other Times ; 
lb 1 had flow'd our new Veffel as fecure as we could, 
bringing her up into the Creek, where, as I fjid in 
the Beginning, I landed my R.afts from the Ship, and 
haling her up to the Shore, at high Water Mark, I 
made mj Man Friday dig a little Dock, juft big enough 
to hold her, and juft deep enough to give her Water 
wough to float in; and then, when the lide was out, 
we made a ftrong Dam crofs the End of it, to keep 
the Water out} and lb jhe lay dry^ as to the Tid<^ 
firom 



Google 



( ^=> ) . 

from theSea;sni3 to keep theRain offjwe kid a great ma- 
n/ Boughs otTrees lo thick, that ihe ivasas wull thatch- 
ed as-a Hoiile ; and thus- we wailed for the Month of 
2^~vimber and Divember, in which i deJign'd to make 
my Adventure. 

When the fettled Seafon liogan to corns in, as tlie 
Thought ot*niy D,-tign rcturii'd with the fair Weatl^er, 
S was preparing daily for the Voyage ; and the fiift 
Thing I did, was to lay hya certain (ijiqntity of I'ro- 
viiions, being tlie Stores for our Voy-age ; and intended, 
in a Week or a Fortnight's 1 ime, to open the Dock, 
and launch out our Boat : 1 was biily one Morning up- 
on fometbing of this kind, when I ciii'd to Friday, and 
hid him go to the Sea-fhore, and lee if lie could find a 
Turtle, or Tortoife, a Thing wliich we generally got 
»ncea Week, fbr the fake of the Eggs, as will as the 
Ffelh. ; Friday Iwd not been long gone, when he came 
running back, and flew over my outer Wall, or Fence, 
like one that felt not the Ground, or the Steps he fet his 
Feet on; and before I had Time to fpeak to him, hecri:s 
out to me, Mafler'. Mafle'! USrnv!- aba.li What's 
the Matter, Friday ? fays 1 ; O yonder lliiri, f^iys he, (Wf, 
(we, three Came! cne,tvii>. (Ar« .' By this way of fpeak- 
ing I concluded there were fix j but on Enquir)' I found 
iCwas but three : Well, Fr'ulay fays I, do not be fiiglit- 
ed ; fo I heartned him up as well as I could : Hoivever, 
I i^iw the poor Fellow was moft terribly feared ; lor no- 
thing ran in his Head but that they were come to look 
for him, and would cut iiim in Pieces, and eat him ; 
and the poor Fellow trembled fo, that I fiarce knew 
what to do with him : I comforted him as- well as I 
could, and told him t was in as much Danger as- he, 
and that they would eat> nie as well as him ; hal, fa)s 
1, Friday vie miifl refolve to p^h'. thim \ Can rcu f'^^ht, 
Friday ? Mejhoit, fays he, but tb;re ccBoe waay ^reat. 
Number. No matter fbr diat, faid I again, our Guns 
will fright them-that we do not kill; fo 1 ask'd him. 
Whether if 1 refolv'd to defend him, he would defend 
ine, and ftand by me, and do jufl as 1 bid him ? He faid. 
Me die, TDhenyou bid die, Malier ; fo I went and fetch'd 
ajgood Dramof Rum, and gave him; for 1 had l»en lii 
good 3 Husband Df.my Rum, that 1 had a greatdcal left ; 
L 3 When 



Google 



( 222 ) 

Whenhe had ^rank it, I made hjm take the two Foit- 
Jing-hicccs wluch we nlivays carry'd, and load them 
with large Swan-Shot, as big as I'mall I'iftol Bullets ; 
tuenl tuck four Musketa, and loaded them with two 
Slugs, and five fmall Bullctseach ; and my two Piilols 
1 loaded with a biace ot' Bullets each : I hung my great 
Sword as ufual, naked by my iide, and gave t'ridaj his 
Hatdiet. 

Vi Ucn I had thus prepar'd my felf, i took my Per- 
fpertivc Gbls, and went up to the fide ot the Hill, to 
r« what i could difjuver ; arid I tiiund quickly, hy my 
Clafs, that there were one and twenty Savages, three 
I'rii'oiiei s, and tlnttCances ;and that their whole Bufinefs 
leeuied to be the triumphant Banquet up^n thefe three 
human Bodies, (a barbarous Feaft indeed) but nothing 
more than as 1 had ohferv'd was ufual with them. 

I ohlerved allbj that they were landed not where they 
l^d done when Friday made his Eicape, but nearer to 
iiiy Creek, whei'e the Shore was low, and where a thi:k 
Wood came clofe almoft down to the Sea : This, with 
the Abhorrence of the inhuman Errand thefe Wretches < 
<^me about, fill'd me with liich Indignation, that I came \ 
down again to tiiday and told him, 1 .was refolved.to i 
fft iovib to them, and kill them all ; and ask'd him if - 
^be would Hand by me ? He vwts now gotten over his 
Jrij^hi, and' his Spirits being a little rais'd with the 
Dram I had given him, ha was very cheariul, and told 
me, as beibre, bs would die, when 1 bid die. 

In this Fit of Fury, I took firft and divided the 
Arms which I had charg'd, as before, between us ; I 
gave irii/iy one PilloS to Hick in bis Girdle, and three 
Ijuns upon his Shoulder; and i took one I'iftol, and 
Ihe other three my lelf ; and in this Pcllare we march'd 
- out : I took a fmall Bottle of Rum in my Pocket, and 
gave Friday a large Bag with more Powder and Bullet ; 
and as to Orders, I charg'd him to keepclofe behind me, 
and not to ftir,or ihoot,or doany thing,.tilllbidhim;ard 
in the mean time, notto fpeak a Word: InthisPofture 
I fctch'd a Compafsto my Right Hand of near a Mile, 
as well to get over the Creek, as to get into the Wood ; 
fochati might come within (hot of them before I Aould 
bedifcover'd, which I hadfccn by my GJafs it was-eafy, 
to do. While. 



K,; le 



( "3 )- 

While I was imkinglbisMarcli, my former ThouglHS 
returning, I began to abate my Rel'olutiori ; I do not 
mean, thaci enteiCain'd any Feav of their Numlier ; for 
as they were naked, unavm'd Wretches, 'tis certain I 
was luperior to them ; nay, though I had been alone ; 
hut it oecur'd to my Thoughts, WbatCall? WhatOc- 
calion ? much lels. What NeccKity, 1 was in to go and 
dip my Hands in Blood, to attack Peojile, wiio had 
neither done or intended me any Wrorg ? Who, as to 
me were innonent, and whole haibarcus Cudoms were 
tlieir own Difafter, being in them a Token indeed of 
God's having left them, with the other Nations ofthat 
part of the World, to I'ueh Stupidity, and to fuih inhu- 
man Courles ; but did not call me to take upon me to 
be a Judge of their Aftions, much lei's an Executioner 
of his JulHce ; that wlieneyer he thought fit, he would 
take the Cauleinto his own Hands, and by National 
Vengeance punilh them for National Crimes; but 
that, in the mean Time, it ivas rone of my Bulinels; 
tliatit was true, FriAaj iul^\\t ]n(tify it, bscaule he wa» 
a declar'd Enemj', and in a ftate of War with thofe ve^ 
ry partieulat People, and- it was lawful for biin to at- 
tacit tliEm ; but I could net fay the fame with velpect 
to me'; Thefe Things were lb warnily prefs'd upon 
my Thoughts all the Way; as I went, that ( relblv'd I 
would only go place my feif near them, that I mighc 
oblerve their barbarous Feafl, and that ( would ait 
then as God fliould dire<£t ; hut that unlefs Ibmetlnng 
cffer'd that was more a Call to me tlian yet I knew ot» 
I would not meddle with them. 

With this Refolutioti I entered the Wood, and 
' with all, poflible Warynofs and Silence {Friday following 
clofe at my Heels) 1 march'd till I came to the Skirt 
of the Wood, on the Side which was next to them; only 
that one Corner ofthe Wood lay between me and them : 
Here I call'd foftly to Friday, and Shewing liim a great 
Tree, which wasjuft at the Corner of the Wood, 1 bad 
bim go to thsTree, and bring me word ifbe could feg 
there plainly what they were doing ; he did To, and 
came immediately back to me, and told nie tbey might 
be plainly view'ii there} that they were all about t bo 
1-4 Fir^ 



i by Google 



( 224 ) ■ 

Fire, citing the Fleih uf one of their Prifjners; and 
Iliat another Ijy bound upon the Sand, a little from 
thtm, which lie Ciid they would kill next, and which 
iir'd all the very Soul within nie : He told me it wbs 
net one oi'tlieir Nation, but one oi the bearded Men, 
who he had told me ot^ that came to their Country in 
the Boat .* 1 (¥39 fiil'd with Horror at the very naming 
the white-beardcd ^'lan, and, going to the Tree, I faw 
plainly, by my Glafs, a white Man, who lay upon the 
Kesch of the 5ea, with his Hands and bis Feet ty'd with 
Flags, or 1 bin^s like Rii/hcs, and that he was an Earn- 
pifau, and had Cloaths on. 

Iliere was anorhcr Tree, and a little Thicket beyond 
it, alKiUt filty Yards nearer to them than the Place 
where J was, which, by going a little way about, I law 
I might come at iindilbovtr'd, and that then [ Ihould be 
within half Shot of them ; fo I with-held my PaiTion, 
though I was indeed entag'd to the higheft Degree, and 
going liaek ahout twenty i^aces, I got behind (bme Bufhes, 
which held all the way, till I came to theother Tree, and 
then I c^me to a little rifing Ground, which gave me a 
tullVjew ofthem, atthe Dirtanceorabout eighty Yards. 

I had now not a Moment to lofe ; for nineteen of 
the dreadful Wretches fate upon the Ground aH clofe 
liuddled together, and had juft lent the other two to 
butcher tlie poor Chnftian, and bring him perhaps Limb 
hy Limb to their Fire ; and they were ftoop'd down to 
untie the Bands at his Feet : 1 ttirn'd to Friday, now, 
t'riaity, fiiid 1, do as I hi 1 thee ; I'ri^y faid he would ; 
tiien, F'utay, fays!, do cxadly »s you fee me do, fail 
in nothing ; lb ( fct down one of the Muskets and the . 
Fowling.l'iece upen the Ground, and J7-;^d; did the 
like by his ; and with the other Musket [took my Aim. 
at the Savages, bidding bim do the like ; then asking 
liini, if he w^is ready ? he faid. Yes ; then iire at them, 
faid I; and the JameMoment I fir'd alfb. 

Fiiday cook his Aim fo much better than I, that on 
the fide that he Ihot, he kill'd two of them, and wound- 
ed three more ; and on my iide, I kill'd one, and wound- 
id two : They were, you may be fure, in a dreadful Con- 
flernation ; and all of 'em who were not hurt, jump'd up 
Upon thi-ir Feet inimediatcly, but did not know i^hieh 

Goog 



f 225 ) - 

Way to run, or wliich Way to look ; for they knew not 
from whence thdr Deftiuftion, came; Friday kept his 
Eyes dole upon ms, that as I had bid him, fie might 
obferve what I did ; ib, as icon as the firil Sliot was 
made, I threw down the Piece, and took up the Fowl- 
tng-Piece, and FrhUtf did the like ; he I'ee me cock, and 
prelenCj he did the lame again ; Are you ready ? Frii-ar, 
laid I i yes, fays he ; let fly then, fays I, in (he Name 
ofGod, and with that I fired ag«n among the amai'd. 
Wretches, and fo did Friday ; andas our Pieces were now 
loaden with what I calVd Swan-Shot, or fmall Piftol 
Bullets, we found only two drop j but fo many were 
wounded, that they ran about yelling and skreaming 
like mad Creatures, all bloody, and milerahly wounded, 
nioft of them ; whereof three mure fell quickly after, . 
though not. quite dead. 

Now, Friday, {ays I, laying down the dii'charg'il Pie- 
ces, and taking up the Musket, which was yet. loaden,- 
ftlliJW me, fays I ; which he did, with a deal of Cou-, 
rage ; upon which I rulh'd out ofthe Wood, and Ihew'-d ■ 
my felf, and Friday clofe at my Foot: As foon as I per- 
ceiv'd they iaw me, I fliouted as loud as- I could, and 
bad Friday da fo too; and runnirig.as fid as I could, 
mbifb by the waf was not very faff, biing Icadin with Arrni ■ 
IS I was, I made direftly towards the poor Viiftiin, 
who, was, as [ faid, lying upon the Beach, or Shore,' 
between the Place where they fat and the Sea ; the two 
Butchers, who were juft going to work with' him, hai 
left him, at the Surprize of our firft Fire, and fled in 
a terrible Fright to the Sea-fide, and hSd jymp'd into a ■ 
CafiJs, and "three more of the reft made thtfame Way;- 
I lurn'd to Friday, and bid him ftep forwards, and fire 
at them ; he underftood me immediately, and running 
about forty Yards'to be near them, he fhot at them, 
and I thought he had kill'd them all : for I faw them all 
fall of a Heap into the Boat ; though I faw two of theiii 
up again quickly ; However, hekill'd two of them, and 
Wounded the third, fo that he lay down in the Bottom 
ofthe Boat, as if he had been dead. 

While my Man B-'i/ay fir'dat them^ IpuU'dout my 

Knife, and tut the Flags that boundthe poor ViElim's 

ud loojlng his Hands and Feet, t lifted him up, and 

- Li ask-a 



Google 



( J2« ) 

ask'd him in the Pcrluguefe Tongue, What he was ? He 
aniwet'd in Latin, CUrijiianus ; but was lb weak and 
faint, that he could fcarce ftand, or (peak ; 1 took mv 
Buttle out of my Pocket, and gavt it liim, making iigns 
that he ihould drink, which he did ; and 1 gave liim a 
i'iece of Bread, which he eat ; then [ ask 'd liim. What 
Countrj'Dian he was ? And he Ikid, EjpagnoU ; and be- 
ing a liccle recover'd, let me kno(y by all the figns he 
could polfiblj- make, how mu;h he was in my Debt foT 
bis JDeliverance : Sei^niur, laid 1, with as much Si^an'Jh 
as I could make- up, we will talk atcerwavds, but we 
jnuft light now ; it" you have any Strength left, take 
this Piitol and Sword, and lay about you : He took 
them very thankfully, and no fooner had lie the Arms 
in his Hands, but as if they had put new Vigour into 
him, he flew upon his Murderers like a Fury, and bad 
cut two of them in Pisces in an Inftant ; for the Truth 
is, as the whole was a Surprize to them, fo the poor 
Cieatures weie Ibmuch frighted with the Noi e of our 
Pieces, that they fell down for meer Amazement and 
Eear, and had no more Power to attempt their own Hi, 
cape, thiu their Fklh had to refill our Shot; and that 
Was the Cafe of thole five that I'riday Ihot in the Boat } 
(brag three of them tell with the Hurt they receiv'd, 
ftj the other two fell with the Fright. 
■ I kept my Piece in my Hand ftill, without firing, be- 
vg willing to keep myCharge ready, becaufe I had given 
the S^niari my Piilol and Sword; To I call'd to I'riAi^f 
ind bad him run up to the Tree from ivhence we firll 
fir'd, and letch the Arms which lay there, that had 
been difeharg'd, which he did with great S^viftnefs; 
and then giving him my Musket, I fat down my Telf 
to luad al\ the reft again, and liad them come to me 
when they wanted: While I was loading thefe Pieces, 
there happened a fierce Engagement between the Sfani- 
i»/-rf and o) one the Savages, who made at him with one of 
their great wooden Swotds, the fame Weapon that was 
fo have kllVd him liefore, if I had not prevented it : 
The SjianiirJi who was as bold and as hrave as could 
be imagio'd, tbo* weak, had fought this Indian a good 
while, , and had cut him two great Wounds on his 
Head j but the Savage being a ftout lufty fellow, clo^ 
ling 



( "7) ■ 

finginwithliim, had thrown him down fbeing faint) 
and was wringing my Sword out of his Hand, when 
the Spaniard, tho' undermoft, wilcly quitting his Sword, ' 
drew the Hitol froiiihisGirdle,Jliot the Savage through 
the Body, and kill'd him upon the Spot, hei'ore I, who 
was running to help him, could come near him. 

Friday being now left at his Liberty, purlii'd the fly- 
ing Wretches with no Weapon in his Hand, but his 
Hatchet ; and with that he difpatch'd thoTe three, who 
as 1 faid belbre, were wounded at firft and fallen, and 
all the reft he could come up with ; and the S,niiiiard 
coming to me for a Gun, I gave him one of the Fowl- 
ing-Pieces, with which he puclu'd two of the Savages, 
and wounded them both ; but as he was not able to run, 
they both got from him into the Wood, wliere Fritiay 
parfu'd them, and kill'd one of them ; but the other was 
too nimble tor him ; and thq' he was wounded, )et had 
plung'd into the Sea, and fwam with all bis Might off 
to thofe tivo who were leit in the Came, which three 
in the Came, with ore wounded, who we know not 
whether he dy'd or no, were all that efeap'd cur Hands 
of One and twenty. The Account ol the reft is aa 
ioilows ; 

3 Kill'd at our firft Shot from the Tree. 
2 Kill'd at the next Shot. 
■2 Kill'd by Friday in the Boat. 

2 KiilM by Ditto, of thofc at firft wounded. 
1 Kill'd by Ditto, in the Wood. 

3 Kill'd by the Spaniard. 

4 Kill'd, being found dropt here and there of their 
Wounds, or kill'd by Friday in his Chace ot them. 

4 Efcap'd in the Boat, whereof one wounded, if 
not dead... 

21 Fn alt. 



Thofe that were in the Got«, worli'd hard to get o«C 
of Gun-fiiot ; and tho' Friday, niade two or three flioB 
at them, I did not find that he hit any of thein ; Fri- 
dia would fain liavc had me taken one of tbcir CaMcsi 



Google 



Und purfued them ; and indeed I was very anxicus about 
their Elcapcj kll, carrying the News Home to their 
People, they iliould come back, perhaps, with two or 
three hundred ot their Cances, and devour us by mcer 
Muldtade; fo 1 corTented to purliie them by Sea; and 
running to one of their Cannes, I juuip'd in, and bad 
teiday tbliow . me j but when 1 was in the Can.e, I ivas 
J'urprii'd to find another poor Creature lie there alive, 
bound Hand and Fool, as the Spaniard ivas, for the 
Slaughter, and almoft; dead with Fear, not knowing, 
wliai the matter was ; for he had not been able to look 
up over the Side of the Boat, he was tied fo hard. 
Neck and Heels, and had been tied fo long, that he 
had really little Life in him. ^, 

I immediately cut the twiiled Flags, or Ruflies, \ 
which they had bound him with, and would have help'd 
him up; but he could not ftand, or i peak, but groan'd 
uioft pitecully, believing, it fecnis, dill that he was only 
unbound in order to be kill'd. 

When Friday came to him, f bad him fpeak to him, 
and tell him of his Deliverance, and pulling out my 
Bottle, made him give the poor Wretch a Dram, 
wliich, with the News of his being deliver'd, revived 
liim, and he fat up in the Boat ; but when Friday came 
to hear him fpeak, and look'd in his Face, it would 
Jiave moved any one to Tears, to have feen how Friday 
kifs'd bim, eiribraced him, bugg'd him, cry'd, laugh'd, 
hcllow'd, jurnp'd about, danced, fung, then cry'd a- 
gain, wrung his Hands, beat his own Face and Head, 
and then fung, and jump'd about again, like a diftraiSed 
Creature: It -was a good while, before 1 could make 
him fpeak to me, or tell me what was the matter ; hut 
when he c_aiiie a little to himfcli, he told me that it was 
his Father. 

It is not eaf/ for me to exprefs how it moved me 
lo fee what Estafy and filial AffVdion had work'd in 
th\i poor Savage, at the Sight of his Father, and of his 
being deliver'd from Death \ nor indeed can I defcribc 
half the Extravagances of his Affcftion after -thisj for 
he went into the Boat and out of the Boat a great many 
timts: When he went in tohini, he would fit down by 
tim, open his Breadj and hold his Father's Head dole 



, Google 



■ " 1 

(229) 

tobisBorom, half an Hour togetlier, to nouvi/h it } 
then he took his Arms and Ankles, which were nuiuli'd 
and ftift'with the binding, and chafed and rubbed them 
with his Hands;' and I perceiving what the Cafe was, 
gave him Ibme Rum oKt of my Bottle, to rub them 
with, which did them a great deal of gijod. 

This Aaion put an End to our Furfuit of the Canoe, 
with the other Savages, who were now gotten almolt 
cut of Sight ; and it was happy for us that we did not ; 
for it blew fo hard within two Hours after, and belcre 
they could be gotten a Carter of their Way, and con- 
tinued blowing fo hard all Nighf, and that from the 
N-irtb-Wefl, which was againft them, that I could not 
ruppofe their Boat could live, or that they ever reach'd 
to their ownCoaft. 

But to return to fr'da^, he was To bufy about his Fa- 
tlier, that I could not find in my Heart to take him olf 
for fome time: But after ilSiought he could leave him 
a little, J caird him to me, and he cams jumping and 
laughing, and pkas'd to the higheft Extream : Then I 
ask'd him, If he had given his Father any Bread ? He 
fliook his Head, and faid, Nsne; Uglf Dug eat all up 
felf ; So i gave him a Cake of Bread out of a little 
Pouch I carried on purpofe ; I alfo gave him a Dram 
for himfdf, but he would not tafte it, but carried it to 
his Father : I had in my Pocket alfo two or three 
Bunches of my Raifins, \'o I gave him a Handful of 
ihem for his Father : He had no fooner given his Fa- 
ther thefe Raiiins, but I faw him come out of the Boa^ 
and run away as if he had been bewltch'd ; he run at 
fuch a rate ; for he was the fwitteft Fellow of his Foot 
that ever 1 faw j I fay, he run at fuch a rate, that he 
was out of fight, as it were, in an inftant; and tho' I 
cjll'd and hoUow'd too after him, it was all one, away 
he went, and in a Quarter of an Hour i faw him come 
back again, tho' not lb fad as he went ; and as he came' 
nearer, I found his Pace was flacker, becaufe he bad ^ 

ibmeihing in his Hand. _ -. > 

When he came up to me, I found he had been quite V* 

Home for an Earthen Jugg, or Pot, to bring his Father 

fome frefh Water, and that he had got two more Cake^ 

or Loaves of Bread: The Bread he gave me, but tb« 

WaKr 



, Google 



( 23° ) 

Water he CAnied to his Father: However) as! wai , 

very thirlly too, I took a little Sup of it : This Water 
revived his Father mure than all the Kum or Spirits I ' 
had given him; for he was jufl; tainting with Thirft. 

'When his Father had drank, I call'd to liimto know 
if there was any Viaterleft; he faid, Yes; and J bad 
htni give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as miich 
Want of it as his father ; and I fent one ot the Cakc^ 
that Iridaj bvcught, to the Spaiuar^ too, who was in- . 
deed very weak, and was repolipg himfclf UDon a green 
Place, under the Shade ot aTjee, and'wnore Limbs 
were alio very ftjfif, and very much fwell'd with the 
rude Bandage he hsd been tied with : When I faw that 
upon Friilays coming to him with the Water, he fat 
up and drank, and took the Bread, and began to eat, I 
went to him, and gave him a Handful of Raifins; he 
look'd up in mv Face with all the Tokens of Gratitude 
and Thankl.ulnVls thaicouM appear in any Counten- 
ance; but was (b w^ak, not with (landing he bad fo ex- 
erted himfclf in the Fight,' that he' could not (land up 
upon his Feet i he tried .to do it t\yo or three times, 
but was really notable ; his Ankles were fo fwell'd and 
fo painful to him ; ib I bad him lit iltll, and caiiled 
Friday to lub his Ankles, and bathe the m with Rum, as 
Ke had done his Father's, 

- I cbferv'd the, ppor.afftftionate Creature every tw(> 
Minutes, or perhaps I'eTs^ ail the while he was here, 
tiirji'd hisHea.ij aligiit^ to, fee if his Father was in the, 
f^ine place? ajid Poflure as hp left him (itting; and at 
14ft be found he .was not to be ieen ; at which be (lart- 
cd upj and without fpeaking a Word, flew with that 
Swifinefs to him, that one could fcarce perceive his 
Fef,t to touch the Ground as he went : But when lie 
came, he onl^' found he had laid himfelf down to eafe 
llis Limbs; fo f^ii/tycaine back to me prefently, and 
I then fooke to the S^niird to let FriJaj help him up if 
lie 'coulo, and lead him to the Boat, and then he fliduld. 
^try him I9 our Dwelling, where I wou,ld tajte ,care of 
fiim: Butfr/rfa7, alufty ftrong Fellow, took' the i^ 
piard quite up upon his Back, and carried him away tcf 
the Boat, and fet him down foftly upon the Side o^ 
jpHiujel of the Canoe, with his Pectin the Infidc of it, 
ana 



K,3le 



( ^31) ^ 

aiid then lifted h!m quite in, and fet him ctofe to his 
father, and prdbntly ftepping out again, laurch'd the 
Ko.it off, and paddled it along the Sh.re fiitler than [ 
could walk, tho' the Wind blew pretty hard too; fo 
he brou^t them both fafe into our CreeK, and leaving 
them in the Boat, runs away to I'ctcli the othec Canoe ; 
As he pali'd me, t fpoke to him, and ask'd him, 
whither be went i' He told me, Gofetth tnas Beat \ lb 
away he went, like the W ind ; for liire never Man or 
Hwie run like him, and he had the other Canoe in 
the Creek, almoft as loon as I got to it by Land ; lb he 
waited me over, and then went to help our new Guefts 
out of the Boat, which he did ; but they were neither 
of them able to walk; fo that poor Siiaaj knew net 

To remedy this, I went to .work in my Thought, 
and calling to friiiay to bid them fit down on the liank 
while be came to me, I foon made a kind of Hand-Bar- 
row to lay them on, and Friday and 1 carried them up 
both together upon it between us: Biit when we got 
them to the Out fide of our Wall, or Fortification, we . 
were at a worfe Lofs than before ; for it was impollible 
to get them over 1 and 1 was refolv'd not to break it' 
down : So I let to Work again ; and Fi'day and I, in 
about two Hours Time, made a very handfome Tent, 
cover'd with old Sails, and above that with Boughs of 
Trees, being in the Space without our outward fenc^ 
and betweeji that and the Grove of young Wood which. 
I had plantejj : Acd here we made them'two Beds of 
fueh Things as I had, vix- of good Rice-Straw, with. 
Blankets laid upon it to lie on, and another to covet 
them on each Bed. 

Mj- Ifland was now peopled, and I thought my felf 
very rich in Subjefts i and it was a merry Refleftioiv 
which 1 frequently made. How like a Iting I Icok'd :j 
Firft of all, the whole Country was njy own mcer. 
Property ; Co that I had an undoubted Right of Domij 
rion. 2rf/)', My People were perJertly fulijefted: I 
was ablblutc Lord and Lawgiver; they all ow'd theii^ 
Lives to me, and were read/ to lay down their Lives,, 
if there bad been Occ^nn of it, for me : It was remar- 
kable Wo, I had but three Subjefts, and they we« of 

ttUM 

. .. I Google 



( n^ > 

three ditftrent Religions. My Man Ir/^ was a Pro- 
teftanC ; his Father was a Pagan and a Camibai \ and 
tbe..^n;a-/was-aPapift: However, I allow'd Liber- 
ty of Co nrde nee throughout my Dominions: But this 
is by the way. 

As foon as 1 had fecur'd my two weak refcued Prifb- 
rers, and given them Shelter, and a Place to reft thim 
upon, I began to thinli of malting foiiie Provifion for 
them: And the firll Thing I did, I order'd Friilay to 
take a yearling Goat, betwixta Kid and aGoat, ouCof 
my particular flock, to be kill'd : Then I cut off the 
hinder Quarter, and chopping it into fmall Pieces, I 
fet Frhhy n Work, to boiling and ftewing, and made 
them a. very good Dilh, I alTure you, of Flelh and 
Broth, having put fome Barley, and Rice' alfo, into the 
Broth ; and as 1 cook'd it without Doors, ( for I made 
no Fire within my inner Wall, fo I carried it" all into 
the new Tent ; and having let a Table there Ibr them, 
J fat down and eat my own Dinner alfo with them,, and, 
as well as I could, chear'd them and encourag'd them;. 
Vriiiay being my Interpreter, efpecially to his Father, 
and, indeed, to t\\e Spaniard laa; for the i'/iart/ari^ fpoke ' 
the Language of the Savage i ^rtity well. 

A fter we had dined, or rather fupped, I order'd' 
Frsd»y to take one of the Canoes, andgo and fetch our 
Muskets and ether Fire-Arms, which for wantof Time 
we had left upon the Place of Battle ; and die next 
Day I order'd him to go and bury the dead Bodies of 
the Savages, which lay open vt the Sun, and would' 
prefentSy be oflenfive ; and I alfo order'd him to bury 
the horrid Remains of their barbarous Feall, which I 
knew were pretty much, and which 1 could not tbinit 
of doing myfelf; nay, 1 could not bear to fee them, ir 
1 went that Way : All which he punftually perform'd, 
and defac'd the very Appearance of the Savages being 
there ; fo that when I went again, I could fcarce know 
where it was, ctherwife than by the Corner of the. 
yiooi pointing td the Place. 

1 then began to enter into a little Converfation with 

mj- twonewSuhiefts; and firft I fet ¥i!dy to enquire 

at his Father, what he thought of the Efcape of the 

Sav»gis in that Canoe, and whetlier we might expea a 

' ■ Recura 



,,3le 



Return of them witli a Pow-r too greaf for us to refi'ff ?' 
His (irft Opinion was, that the Savages in tlie Boat ne- 
ver conld live cut the Storm which Wew that Night 
they went off, hut muft of Neccffitj" be drown'd or 
driven Sfuth to thofe other Shores, where they wefe as 
fure to be devour'd as they were to l>e drowned it they 
were caft away ; hut as to wliat they would do iFthcy 
came fafe on iihore, he laid he knew not ; but it was 
his Opinion that they were To dreadfully hightcd with 
the manner of their being atiack'd, the Noile and the 
Fire, that he believ'd they would tel! their Peopie, they 
were .ill kill'd by Thunder and Lightning, not by the 
Hand of Man, and that the two which appear'd, (vi^.y 
friday ni3i me, were two Heavenly Spirits or Furies 
come doTvn to deftroj' them, and not Men with Wea- 
pons: This he faid he knew, hecaufe he beard them a.ll 
cry cut fo in their Language to one anotliei' ; for it was 
JmpolTible to them to conceive that a Man could dare 
Fire, and fpeak Thunder, and kill at a Diftance, with, 
eat lilting up the Hsnd, as was done now: And this old 
Savage was in the right j for, as I underftood fince by 
other hands, the Savages of that Part never attempted to 
go over to the llland afterwards ; they were fo terrified' 
with theAccounts given by thole four Men, (for it feenis 
they did efeape the Sea ) that they beh'ev'd whoever 
went to that enchanted ifland, would be deftroy'd with 
Fire from the Gods. 

This however i knew not, and therefore was under 
continual Apprehenfions for a good while, and kept 
always upon my Guard, me and all my Army ; foras 
we were now four of us, I would have ventur'd upon a 
hundred of them fairly in the open Field at any time. 

In a little time, however, no more Canoes appear- 
ing, the Fear of their coming wore off, and t began to 
take my former Thoughts of a Voyage to the Main into 
Confideration, being likewife alTur'd by Fridn/i Fa- 
ther, that 1 might depend upon good Ufage fromi their 
Nation on his Account, if I would go. 

But my Thoughts were a little fufpended, when I 

bid a ferious Difcourfe with tlie Spaniard, and when I 

undcrftood that there were fiKteeo more ofhisCoun- 

trj-ifien and Pcrtugefe^ who haying l>een caft away, and 

. made 



Google 



(»34) 

made their Efcape to that fide, liv'd thereat Peace in- 
deed with the Savagesj but were very lore put to it fur 
NecelTaries, and indeed for Life ; 1 ask'd iiiai all tlie 
Particulars, oi thcit Vnyage, and fbund they were a 
Spaaijh Ship, ^oand from the fi« de (a Plata, to the Ha- 
vana, being diredted to leave their Loading there, which 
was chiefly Hides and Silver, and to bring back what 
f««psilrt Goods tliey could meet with there ; that they 
had five Pjrfogtff/s Seamen on Board, whom they took 
out ofanother Wreck; that five of their own Men were 
drown'd when firfb the Ship was lofV, and that thefe ef- 
cap'd thro' infinite Dangers and Hazards, and ai'riv'd al- 
mofl ftarv'd on the Camiibat Coaft, where they expeiied 
to have been devour'd erery Moment. 

He told me, they'_hadfome Arms with them, hut they 
ivere perfedly ufelels, for that they had neither Pow- 
der or Ball, the Walhiiig oi the Sea having fpoil'd all 
their Powder, hut a little, which tliey ul'ed at their firft, 
Landing to provide themfelves fomeFood. 

I ask'd him ivhat he thought would become of them 
there, and if they haiform'd no Defign of making any 
Eicape: He laid, They had many Confultations about 
it," but that having neither Veffel, nor Tools to build 
one, or Provifions of any Kindi their Co^afels always 
ended ill Tears and Defpair. 

I ask'd him how he thought they would receive ii 
Propofal from me, which might tend towards an Efcape : 
And whetlier, if theywere all here, it might not he 
done? I told him with Freedom, J fear'd moftly their 
Treachery and ill Ulage of me, if I put mj; ^ile in their 
Hands ; for that Gratitude was no inherent Virtue in 
the Nature of Man; nor did Men always fqoare their 
Peaiirigs by the Obligations they had receiv'd, fo much 
as thev did by the Advantages they expeifted : I-. told' 
liim, it would be very hard, that I fiiould be the In. 
ftrument of their Deliverance, and that they fliould af- 
tenvards makenie their Prilbner in NewSpain, where- 
an E»,^lijhm^n was certain to be made a Sacrifice, what 
Neceffity, orwhat Accidetit Ibever, brought him, thi- 
ther : Andthatl had rather, be deliver'd up to.theJ'*-; 
va^is, and' be devour'd alive, tbtm fall int&tiie. merci« 
lefs Claws.of-the PrieftSj and be carry'd iato ^ the J'wff''- ■ 
fiihitt 



.ogk 



(^35 ) 

^linff. I added. That otherwile I was perfwaded, if 
xhey were ail here, we might, with fo many Hands, 
build a Bark lajge enough to carry us al! away, either to 
the £jfl/(/i Southward, or to the Iflands or i'/ja»jft Coaft 
Northward: But that if in Requital they ibould, when 
1 had put Weapons into their Hands, carry me by Force 
a:uong their own People, I might be ill uled for my 
Kindnefs to them, and make my Cafe worfe than it was 

He anfiver'd with a great deal of Candor and Inge- 
nuity, That their Condition was lb miferabk, and they 
werelo fenlible of it, that he believed they would ahhor 
the Thought of uling any Mati unkindly that fliould 
contribute to their Deliverance; andtbat, if I pleafed, 
lie ivould go to them with the old Man, and difcourfc 
with them about it, and i-eturn again, and bring me 
their Aniwer: That he would make Conditions with - 
them upon their folemn Oath, That they would Wab- 
lolutely under my Leading, as their Commander and 
Captain;. and that tliey Ihould fwear upon the Holy 
SacraiiiSnts and Gofpel^to be true to me, and to go t-o 
fiieh Chriftian Country as [ fliould agree to, and' 
no otlier ; and to be'dircfted wholly and abfolucely by 
niy Orders, till they were landed fafely in fucli Country 
as i intended ; and that he would bring a Contr.ifl; from 
them under their Hands for that Purpofe. 

Then he told me, he would firft fwear to me himfelf^ 
That he would never ftir from me as long as he liv'd, 
tin r gave him Orders ; and that he would take my 
Side to the laft Drop of iiis Blood, if there fliould hap- 
pen the lead Breach otFaith among his Countrymen. 

He told me, they were all of them very civil honed 
Men, and they were under the greateft Dtftrefs imagina- 
ble, having neither Weapons or Cloths, nor any Food, 
but at the Mercy and Difcrettonof the .^iv^gsj ; out of 
all Hopes of ever returning to their own Country ; and 
that hewasfure, if I would undertake their Ete lief, they 
wou'd Hve and die by me. 

Upon thefe Affurajices, X refolv'd to venture to re- 
lieve them, if poffible, and to lend the old Savage and 
this Spaniard over to them to treat : But when he had 
gotten allTbingsinaReadinefs to go, the ^aw/Wii him- 
felf 



, Google 



( >3« ) - 

ftlfflarted an Olijfclion, which had fo much Prudent 
in it on one Hand, and lb much Suieeritj- on chs other 
Hand, that I could not but be very well latisly 'd in it ; 
and, byhisAdvice, putoff the Deliverance of his Com- 
rades tor at leaiV half a Year. The Cafe was thus. 

He had been with US now about a Month; during 
which. Time I had let him lee in wh^t Manner I had 
provided, with the Atfiilance of Providence, for my 
Supjjort ; and he law evidently what ftock of Corn and 
Rice I had laid up ; which, as it was more than liifli- 
cient for niyfclf, Co it was not fufficient, at leall with- 
out good Husbandry, for my Family, now it was en- 
creas'd to Number lour : But much lefs would it be fuf- 
iivient, if his Countryman, who were, as he laid, four- 
teen flill alive, fliouVd come over ; and lealt of all would 
if be fufficient to viiftual our Vellel, if we fiiould build 
one, Jor a Voyage to any of the Chriftian Colonies of 
Jlinirica. So he told me, he thought it would be more 
advflable, to let him and the two other dig and culti- 
vate lome more Land, as much as I could Ipare Seed to 
fow ; and that we ]hi;uld wait another Harireft, that 
we might have a Supply of Corn for his Country-men 
when thsy fhould come ; for Want might be a Tempta- 
lioti to th'im to dilagree, or not to think thenifelves de- 
liver'd, otherwife than out of one Difficulty into ano- 
ther ; You know, fays he, the Children of Ijrael, tbough 
they re^ic'd at firll at their being deliver'd out of Egypt, 
yet i:ebeU'd even againft God himfelf that deliver'd 
ther», when ihey came to want Bread in the Wilderneli. 

His Caution was lb feafonable, and his Advice lb good, 
that I coudd not but be very well pleas'd with this I'ro- 
pafal, as well as I was fatisfy'd widi his-Fidelity ; So 
we tall to digging ail ftiur of us, as well as the wooden 
Tools, ive were iurniflifd with permitted ; and in about 
a Mondi's.Time, by the End of which it was Seed-time, 
w*hfld gotten as much- Land cur'd and trinim'd up, as 
we fow'd 22Bui]xels of Barley on, and i6 Jarrsof Rice, 
which was, in Jhort, all the Seed ive had to fpare ; nor 
indeeidid we leawe our felves Barley fufficient for our 
own Food, for thefur Months that we had toexpeftour 
Crop, chicis^to. fay, reckoning from' the Time we let 



.;, Google 



( m ) 



cur Seed alide for Towing ; for it is not to be fuppos'd ft 
is iix Months ill the Ground in the C<-untry. 

Having now Society enough, and our Number being 
fufficientto put us out of tear of the Savages, ifthejr 
had come, unlefs their Number had been very great, 
ive went freely all over the llland, where-ever we tbund 
Oeealion •, and as here we had our Efcape or Delive- 
lance upon our Thoughts, it was impofltble, at leaft for 
^e, to have the Means of it out of mine ; to this Pur- 
pole, 1 mark'd out leveral Ti-ees, wliicli I thought fit 
tor our Work, and I let triday and his Father to cutting 
theni down j and then 1 caus'd the SfUHmrd, to whom I 
imparted my Thought on that AtFair, to overfee and di- 
rect their Vv ork : 1 ihew'd them with what indefatiga- 
ble Fains I liad hew'd a large Tree into fingle Planks, 
and I caus'd them to do the like, till they had made a- 
bout n. Dozen large Planks of good Oak, near two Foot 
broad, 35 Foot long, and fj-om two Inches to four In- 
ches thick : what prodigious Laboui- ic took up, any 
one may imagine. 

At the fame Time 1 contriv'd to encieafe my littla 
F!ockoftameGoitsasmuchasl could ; and to tliis Pur- 
pole I made Friday and the Spatiiaid go out one Day, 
and my felt, with Friday, the next Day, for ive took 
our turns ; And by tWs Means we got about 20 young 
Kids to breed up with the reft ; for whenever we fliot 
the Dam, we lav'd the Rids, and added them to our 
Flock : But above all, the Seafon for curing the Grapes 
coming on, \ caus'd liich a prodigious Qitantity to be 
hung up in the ;un, that I believe, had we been at jJ- 
/icanf, where the Hailins of the Sun are cured, we could 
have fill'd 60 or So Barrels ; and thefe, with our Bread, 
was a great Part of our Food, andv^ry good Living too, 
1 affure you j for it is an exceeding nouriihing tood. 
It was now Harveft, and our Crop in good Order ; 
it was not the moft plentilul Encreafe I had leen in the 
Ifland, but however it was enough to anfwer our End ; 
tor ti-om our 22 Buihels of Barleyj we brought in and 
threllied out above 220 Bultels, and the like in Propor. 
tion oi the Rice, whi:h was Store enough tor our Food 
to the next Harveft, iho' all the t6 Sjianiards had been 
on bhots with me j or if we had been ready tor a Voy- 
age 



, Google 



( 538 ) 1 

;:"ege, it-would very pkntiiuily have viiluall'd our ili.j, 
to have carr/'d us to any Part of the World, tiat is u 
JJij, of Atntrica. When we had. ihus hcus'd and lecur'd 
■ our Magaiine of Corn, we fell to Work to make mois 
Wicker-Work, v\. Great Baskets in which we kepi 
itj and the S^niard was very handy and dexterous iX 
this Part, and often blam'd me that 1 did not make 
fomeThing3forDefence,oithis Rind of Work; but I 
fawnoNeed of it: And now having a full Supply uf 
i-ood for all the Gueils.BJtpeaed, 1 gave the the S^- 
nlard Leave to go over to the.Main,to lee what he could 
do with thole he had left behind him tl:ere : 1 gave 
him a llrift Charge in Writing, not to bring any Man 
withhiin, who would rotfitllfwear in the i-rdenceof 
bimlell and of the old Savage,That he would no Way in- 
jure, light with, or attack the Perfon he ihould find in 
the lAand, who was io kind to lend for them in Order 
to thsir Deliverance ; but that they wuuld (land by -and 
defend iiim againll ali fueh Attemps, and where-evcr 
they went, would be entirely under, and fubjefted t6 his 
Command-, and that thislhculd be put in V, riling, anc 
fign'd with their Hands: How we were to have tht 
done, when I knew they had neither Jren or Ink, t\ut 
indeed, was a Qiieftion which we never ask'd. 

Under theic Inrtruaions, the Spaniard, and the eld 
Savage (the Father of Friday) went away in one ol' tb^ 
Canoes, which they might hi faid to corns in, or rathi;: 
were brouglit in, when they came as Priloners to be de- 
vour'd by the Savages- 

I gave each uf them a Musket with a Firelock on it 
and about eight Charges of Powder and Ball, charg- 
ing them to be very good Husbands of bnlli, and not to 
ufe either o( them but upon urgent Occafion. 

This was achearlul Work, being the firft MeafurfS 

u(ed by me in View of my Deliverance for now 27 

Yeareand fomeDays: I gave them Provifions of.BreacI, 

and of dry'd Grapes, fufficient for themlelves for many 

.Days, andfufJicient tor aI1 their Country-men for alwut 

.-e^ht Days time ; and wifliing them a good Voyage, I 

: iee tbem go,- agreeing with them about a Signal they 

ftould hang ouc-a t ilicir Return by which i Ihould knoiv 

theip again, when they cime back, ata-DUlanec, Jwfore 

, they came on Shore. Tfe/ 



( 239 ) 



They went away with a fair Gale on th^Day.that 
theMoon wasat tull; bj' my Account in the Moutli 
of OScher ; but as tor an txntl Reckoning of Days, af- 
ter 1 had once ioft it, I could rever recover it again ; 
nor had I kept even the Number of Years fo punitual- 
ly ; as to be tUre that I was right, tho", as it prov'd, 
when I afterwards examin'd my Account, 1 found I had 
kept a true Reckoning ot Years. 

It was no lefs than eight Days I had waited tor them, 
whenaftr^nge and untorefeen Accident interven'd, of 
which the litce has not, perhaps, been heard of in Hi- 
ftory. I ivas faft afleep in my Hutch one Morning, 
when my Man Friday came running in to me, and call'd 
aloud, mafter, Mafter, tbey are corns, they are come. 

Ijump'd up, and, regardlefs of Danger, I went out 
as loon as I could get my Clothes on, thro' my little 
Grove, which ( by the Way ) was by this Time grown 
to be a very thick Wood : I fay, regardlels of Danger, 
I went without mv Arms, which was not my Cuftom 
to do ; but I was lurpriz'd, when turning my Eyes to 
the Sea, I prefently law a Boat at about a Le.igue and 
Half's Diftance, Handing in for the Shore, with a 
Shmlder-of'-Muttm-Sailf as they call it, and the V. ind 
blowing pretty fair to brinj; them in: Alio I oblerv'd 
prelently, that they did not come from that Side which 
the Shore lay on, but from the Southermoft End of the 
Illand I- Upon this I call'd Friday in, and bid hirn lye 
clofe, for thefe were not the People we look'd for, and 
that we might not know yet whether they were Friends 

In the next-Place, I went in to fetch myPerf|wflive- 
" Glafs, to fee- what 1 could make of them; and having 
tal^en the Ladder out, 1 clinib'd up to the Topofllie 
Hill, as I ufed to do when I was apprehenlive ot any 
Thing, and to take my View the plainer witli out be- 
ing dilbovn'd. ■ , . . - ^ ■ 
■ ■ I "had firai-ce fet' my Font on the Hill, when nl^'Ejc 
plainly. difcbv^'d a SIrip lyipg'at an Andior, a't.aTiOut 
tWo:0;(gii6Vahd .aji Halt's DitWheb from piey,.S^B, 
'but'notaboYea'Leagueaiidan halt'friJHi the Shdi'&vEy 
iny Oblervation St appear'd pUitily to he an Eiulijh 
■ Shfp, -aitd the BoStippeai'd to bt'sa^n^iijb Long-Bditt. 



, Google 



( HO ) 

I cannot exprefs tlie Conruiion I was in, tho' the'Joy 
of feeing a Ship, and one whom I had Reafon to believe 
was Mann'd hy my own Countrj-iaen, and conll-ijuent- 
ly Friends, was fiich as I cannot defcribe ; but yet I 
bad foiheiecret Doubts hung about me, I cannot tell 
horn whence they came, bidding me keep upon my 
Guard ; In the hrft Place, it oeeur'd to me, to con- 
fider what Bufiners an JEig.i/id Ship could have in that 
Part of the World, fmce it was not the Way to, or 
from any Part ofthe World, where the Siiglijh had any 
Traffick ; and I knew there had been no Storms to drive 
them in there, as in Diftrefs ; and that if they were 
-Eiiglijh really, it was moll probable that they were here 
«pon no good Delign j and that I had better continue 
as I %vas, than fall into the Hands of Thieves and Mur- 
therers. 

Let no Man defpife the fecret Hints and Notices of 
Danger, which fometimes are given him when he may 
think there is no Poflibility ot its beinji real : Tkac 
fuch Hints and Notices are given us, 1 believe few that 
have made any Oblervations of Things can deny; that 
they are certain Difcoveries of an invifibie World, and 
a Converfe of Spirits, we cannot doubt ; and if thj 
Tendency of them feems to be to warn us of Danger, 
why ftould we not fuppofe they are from fome friend- 
ly Agent, C whether iupreme, or inferior and fubordl- 
nate, is not the Q»ieftio(i} and that they are given tor 
our Good ? 

The piefent Queftion abundantly confirms me in the 
Juftice of this Reafoning ; tor had I not fjeen made 
cauttoushy this lecret Admonition, come it from whence 
it will, I had been undone inevitably, and in a far 
ivorfe Condition than before, as you will fee prelently. 

I had not kept itiy felf long in this Pofture, but I 
faw the Boat draw near the Shore, as ifthey look'd for 
a Creek to thruft in at for the Convenience of Land- 
ing 1 however, as they did not come quite far enough, 
they did not fee the little Inlet where 1 formerly landed 
my RaflE ; but run their Boat on Shore upon the Beach, 
at about half a Mile fi-om me, which was very happy 
for me ; for otherwife they would have landed juft, as 
I any fay, at my Door, and would &oii have beaten 



.vGoof Ic 



..Google 



(hi ) 

BM owt of my Caflle, and, pcrliapsj have plundcr'd ine 
of all 'I had. 

When diey were on Shore; I was full/ I'ltisJied they 
were Enpijh Meo, at leall moft of them; one or two £ 
thought were Dutch, hat it did not prove fo : Thsr« 
were in all eleven Men, whereof three of them t fi^und 
were iinarm'd, and (as I thought) hound, and whea 
the firll tijur or five ot them were jump'd on Shore, they 
tonk thofe three out of the Boat as Prilbners : On:: ot' 
the three I. could perceive uling the motl pairioiiate Gel- 

■ tures of Entreaty, Affliaion, and Dcfpair, even to a 
kind of Extravagance ; the other two, I could perceive, 

■ lifted up their Hands fonit'tiniss, and a,ppear'd concern'd 
indeed, hut not to lUch a Degree as the firll. 

I was perfeaij confounded at the Sight, and knew 
not wliat theMeaning of.it Ihould be: triaaj caird out 
1^ me in EagUJh, as well as he could, M^ftr ! Ti^ufie 
pgMih Marts eat Prifcncr "i v^iU Savage ,)-Ia«i : Why, 
;.'% r, Friday, do you tliiok thej' are a going to rat them 
"""^ Tr-j, Jays ^riAnyy.Thj^-viilt eat tb^ni : No, no, 
'ridaf, I am afraid they will niurtlier them, in- 
7 you may lie fure they will not eat them. 
;s while 1 had no Thouglit of wTiat the Matter 
^was, but flood trbjiibling with the Honor of -the 
:, ejtpeaing every Mdment when the three Prifo- 
i ihould be kill'd ; nay, once I -faw one of the Vil- 
Tkjiftup his Arm with a jjreat Cutlaih, fas the Sea- 
wall It) or Sword, to flyike one of the poor Men ; 
yi ejtpeaed to fee him Tail every Moment, at whicli 
! Blood in my Body feem'd to run chill in niy 

Rlii'd heai'tily now for my Spaniard, and the Sa- 
ls gone with him ; or that I had any Way 
; undifcover'd within Shot of them, that I 
'-■have refcu'd the three Men ; for I law no Fire- 
'*y had among thenij but it fell out to.myMind 

.yp. ^f liad obferv'd the outrageous Oiage of the t'iiree 

>Tea by the mfolent Seamen, I obferv'd the. Fellow* 

.,^i^^ring about the Land, as if they wanted to fee 

'^V 1 ^^'■5' ■ ^ o'''"'^'''''4 alio that the three other Men 

had EWei-ty to go where they pleas'd ; but tliej fat fewi ' 

. I, Google 



( '42 ) '' 

all' three upon the ground very penfive, and look'd like 
.Men in Delpatr. 

This put me in Mind of the firft Time when I came 
on Shore, and began to look about me ; how I gave my 
ielfover for loft, now wildiy I ;look'd round me, what 
. dreadful Apprehenlions 1 had, and how I lodg"d in the 
Tree all Night for tear of Ijeing devour'd by wild Beafts, 
As I knew nothing that Nij;ht of the Supply I was to 
receive by .the providential Driving of the ship nearer 
the Land, by the Storms and Tide, by which 1 have 
Jl nee been fo long nourilh'd and fuppurted; (o thefe 
three poor defolate Men knew nothing how certain of 
Deliverance and Supply they were, how near it was to 
..them, and how effdiftually and reall;' they were in a Con* 
.dition of Sfliety, at the fame Time that they thought 
ilhemfelves lofl, and their Cal'e defperate. 

So little ^o we fee before us in the World, and fo 
much Reafon have we to depend chearfully upon the 
great Maker of the Wcrld, that be does not leave his 
"Creatures fo abfolutely defHtute, but that in the worfl 
CircumftMces they have always fomething to be fhank- 
Jai for, and fometinies are rearer their Deliverance than 
;they imagine ; nay, are even brought to their Deliver- 
.ance by the Means by which they il'em to te brought t« 
.their Deftruftion. 

It was juil at the Top of High- water when thefe Peo- 
ple came on Shore, and while partly they ftood parlying 
.*vith the PrifonerB they brought, and partly while they 
rambled .about to fee what kind of Place they were ii^, 
they had carlefsly flaid till the Tide was fpent, and the 
■•Water was ebb'd confiderably away, leaving their Boat 
. a-ground. 

They had left two Men in the Boat, who as I found 
afterwards, having drank a little too much Brandy, fell 
a fleep ; .JiowevEr, bhe of them waking fooner than the 
other, andi nding fhe Boat too fall a-ground for him to 
,ftir it, hallow'dior the reii who were ftraggting about, 
/upan.which tb^all fDoncame to the Boat; but it was 
-patt all iheir Strength to Inunch her, the Boat beiitg ve- 
ixyieavy, 'and the Shore on that fide being a foft oozy 
:Sand, .i^oit like a Qrddt-SaiKi. 

■■■- ' '^ U 

Ho.tedbyGoo'-'Ie 



( H3 ) ■ 

In this CoHdition, like true Seamen, wlioare, p«r- 
iisps, tlie leaftof all Mankind gis'en to Fcre-thoaght, 
Xhey gzveit over, and away they llroil'd alwut tne 
Country again ; and I heard one of them fiy aloud to 
atiocher; (calKng them off from the Boat} tViff let her 
aim:. Jack, can't yi^ Jhe'U pat n€xt lids ; hy which I 
was fully coniirm'd m the main Enquiry, ot" whM 
Countrymen they were ? 

All this while 1 kept my. felf very clofe, not once dar- 
ing to llir out of my Caftle, any farther than to my 
Piaee of Oblervation, near the Top of the Hill ; and 
very glad I was, to think how well it was fbrtify'd j 
I knew it was no lefethanten Hours before the Boat 
could be on iloat again, and by that Tims it would be 
dark, and 1 might be at more Liberty to feetheir Mo- 
tions, and to hear their Dilbourfe, if titey had any. 

In the mean Time 1 fitted my lelf up ibr a Battle, as 
hilore ; tho' with more Caution, knowing I had to do 
with aiic-Ciier kind of Enemy than I had at firft : I or- 
der'd f/i.'iy alfo, whom I had m^de an excellent Markf- 
man with his Gan, to load bimlelfwith Arms: I took 
my felf two Fowling-Pieces, and I gave him three Mul- ' 
iets : My Figure, indeed, was very fierce ; I had my 
ibrmidahle Goatskin Coat on, with the great Cap I 
snentioned, a naked Sword, two Piilols in my Beit, and 
a Gun upon eacli Shoulder. 

It was my Defign, as Ifaidabove, not to havemade 
anyAttcmpt 'till it was dark; But about two aCloek, be- 
ing the Heat of the Day, I found that in Jliort they were 
a!lgoneftragglingintotheWoods,and, as I thuught were 
all laid down to deep : The three poM diftreffed Men, 
too anxioBS for their Condkion to get any Sleep, ivere, 
however, fet down under the Slicker of a great Tree, at 
about a ijuarter of a Mile from me, and, as I thought, 
■out of Sight ol'any of the reft. 

Upon this I rcfolv'dtodifcover tny fcifto theni, and 
'learn fomcthing of their Condition: Immedately I 
■Biarch'd in the f igare above, rtiy Man Friday at a good 
■piftance behind me, as formidable (or his Arjns, as I, 
'"but not making ^ttlte &> Aaring a S^eHn-iHe Figure as 
I-did. 

Ml I 

Ho^redb:, Google 



■( =44 )-' 

■t came as near them undifcover'd as I could, and then 
bitbre any of tiiein faw me, I call'd aloud to them in 
Spanip), What are ye Gentlemen? 

They ftarted up at the Noii'e, but were ten times 
more conlcunded when tbey law me, and the uncoutli 
figure that I made: They made no Anlwer at all, 
but I thought I perceiv'd them juft going to fly from 
me, when 1 fpoke to them in EngUJh i Gentlemen, laid 
I, do not be iurpiii'd at me ; perhaps you may have 
3 Friend near you, when you did rot ejcpeil it : He 
inuft be fent direiftly from Heaven then, laid tine 'fthein 
very gravely to tm, and pulling iff his Hat at the fame 
Time, iir our QndUicn is pafl the Help of Mm. All 
Help is from Heaver, Sir, faid I ; But can you put 
a Stranger in the Way how to he!p you, for you leeni 
to me, to be in Ibme great Diftrcis r" I faw you whi^n 
jou landed, and when you feem'd to make Application 
lo the Btutes that came with ) ou, I law one of them 
Hit up his Sword to kill you. 

The poor Man, with Tears running down his Face, 
and trembling, looking like one ailonifh'dj return'd, 
vto I talking to God, crMan! h it a real Man, or an 
jingel! Bein370 fear about that. Sir, [aid I, if God 
bad ftnt an An^el to relieve you, he would have come 
ie Iter clot h'd, and arm'd after another Manner than 
you lee me in ; pray lay aiide your Fears, I am a Man, 
an Englijhman, and dilpos'd to afllft you, you fee ; I 
have one Servant only ; we have Arms and Ammuni- 
tion; tell us freely, Can we terve you? — ■ — What is 
your Caie ? 

Our Gale, laid he, Sir, is too long to tell you, while 
our Murtherers are Jo near ; but, in lliort. Sir, I .was 
Commander of that Ship, my Men have mutiny'd a- 
gainftme, they have been hardly prevail'd on not to 
muriher me, and at iafl have fet me on Shore in this 
.delblate Place, with thefe two Men ivith me, one my 
Mate, the other a PaiTcnger, where we espefted to 
perifti, believing the Place to be uninhabited, and know 
rot yet what to think of it. 

Where are. tbofe Brutes, youi- Enemies, faid I, do 

you ki'ow-where they are gone.' Tl/ere ihey iyt,.%K, 

frfid lie, pointing to a Thicket.oC Trees, rrrfHearf trem' 

blei 

I Google 



( ^45 ) . 

tk I for fear they havefeemis, and (leardji-a fpeai; Sf tbef 
IjavCi ibey vrHl certnitily murder us sB. 

Have they any Fire.Arms, laid I? He anfiver'a, 
they had only tivoTjects, and one which they left in 
the Boat. Well then, laid I, leave the reft to nie; I- 
lie they are all alli-ep, if is an eafy thing to kill them 
all ; but iliali we rather take them Frifoners '^ He told- 
me there were two defperate Villains among them, that 
it was Icarce late to Jliew anyMerey to; but ii they 
were fecur'd, he believ'd ail the reft would return t(f 
theii- Dtity :■ I asked him, wliieh tliej' were ? He told, 
me, he could not at that Diftance defcribe them ; blit- 
he would obey my Orders in any thing I would dirccl; 
Well, fajs I, let us retreat out of their View or Hear- 
ing, left they awake, and we will refolve farther; fb- 
they wiliingl) nt ba k 'th me, till the Woods co- 
ver'd us froi h n 

Look you ( d I I venture upon your De- 

liverance, a u 11 g o make two Conditioiiswiiiv 
me ; he arc c pa d my I opofals, by teiling me, that 
both be and he 51 p eoover'd, fliould he whol5y 

direfted and on nded hy me in Every thing ; and if 
the Ship was not iCLOverd, he wouldUve and die with- 
me in what Fait of the World fosver 1 would lend 
him ; and the two other Men r«id the lame. 

Vl'eU, fays I, fny Conditions are but tioo. i. Tl>at 
while you ftay on this Ifland with me, you will not pre- 
tend to any Authority here; and if 1 put Arms into 
your Hands, you will upon all Occafions give the;i) up 
to me, and do nol^rejudice to me or mine, upon this 
jn.ind, and in the mean time be govern'd by my 
Orders. 

2. That ifthe Ship is, or may be recover'd, you will 
carry me and my Man to England Paffage-frec. 

He gave me all the Alfurances that the Invention 
and Faith of Man could devife, that he would comply 
with thefe murt realbnable Demands'and beiides would 
owe his Life to me, and acknowledge it upon all Occa- 
fions as long as he liv'd, 

Well then, faid I, here are three Muskets for yom, 

with Powder and Ball ; tell me next what you think is 

proper to be done; He ihew'd all the Teftimony oflu* 

M 3 Grati- 



, Google 



( ^^6 ) 

Gratitude that lie was able ; biit offerM to be wholly 
guided bj' me : I told him, I [bought it was hard ven- 
turing any Thing, but tilt b';ft Method I could think 
eti was to fire apon tlieni at once, as they Jay ; and if 
any was not kill'd at the firll Volley, and cftercd to 
iiibmit, we niig^htlave them, and fo put it wholly upon. 
God's Providence to direA the Shot. 

He did very mcdeftly, I'hat he was Ictli to kill, 
(hc-m, if he could help it ; but that thofe two were in- 
corrigible Villains, and liad been the Authors of all the 
T'lutia)' in tliK ihip, and if they efcaped, we fliould be 
undone flill; (or they would go on Board, and bring, 
the whole Ship's Company, and deftroy us all: Well 
tbsn, iaid I, Nieejfity te^iti/mti^s ffJ? Advice ; far it is tuz- 
tnljWay t} favc cur Lives i However, feeing him ftiSl 
cautious of Jliedding Blood, 1 told blm they Jhould go 
themfclvts, and manage as they ibund convenient. 

In the Middle of this Dilcourfe we lieard Ibme of them 
swake, and loon after we law two of them on their 
Feet; 1 ask'd him, if either of them were the Men, 
whom hi had faid were the Heads of the Mufiny ? He- 
f.iid. A, : Well then, litid I, you msy Ut them eibape, 
and Trovidence items to have waken'd them on Pur- 
yole to fave themlelves : Now, fays i, ifthe reftcfcapa- 
you, it h ysur fault' • 

Animated with this, he took t}ie Musket I bad given 
lim in his Hand, and a Piftol in his Belt, and his two 
Comrades with himj with each Man a Piece in his. 
Hand : The two Men, who were with him going firft, 
aiade fome Noife, at which one of the Seamen, who 
was awske, tiirn'd about, and feeing them coming, 
cry'd out to the reft, hut it was too late then, for the 
Moment he cry'd out, they tir'd, I mean the tino Men, 
the Captain wifely referving his own I-iece : They had 
fo well aim'd their Shot at the Men they knew, that, 
one of them was kiird on the Spot, and the other very 
inu:h wounded ; but not being dead, he ftaited up 
upon his Feet, and call'd eagerly for Help to the other j- 
but the Captain ftepping to him, told bim, 'twas too 
Iflte to cry lor Help, he ihould call upon God to forgive 
his Villainy, and with that Word knock'd him down 
iKith the Stock of his Musket ; fo that lie never fpok^ 



Google 



( 247 ) 



more: There were three more in the Compatij', and 
one of'tliem was alio (lighrlj wciwided : By ihis time I 
was come ; and when they law their Danger, and that 
it was in vain to reiift, they begg'd tor Mercy : 'I he 
Captain told them, he ^vould fparc their Lives, ii they 
would give him anyAQurance of their Abhorrence of 
the Treachery they had been guilty otj and would twear 
to be faithtiil to him in recovering the Ship, and after- 
wards in carrying her back to J^amaii-a, (rom "hence 
they came •■ 1 liey gave him all the Proteftations ol their- 
Sincerity that could bedelir'd, and he was willing to 
belieVe them, and I'pare their Lives, which \ ivas not 
againil ; only I oblig'd him to keep them bound Hand' 
■*aA Foot while they were opon the Ifl^ind. 
. While this was doing, [ Ibiit l'rid<iy with the Op- 
tain's Mati; to the Boat, with Orders Co fecure her, anA 
tring away the Oars and Sail, which they did j and' 
by-and-by, thi-ee ftraglinj Men that ivere ( happily toe 
them ) parted from the reft, came back upon hearing 
the Guns iir'd, ar.d feeing thiir Captain, who before 
was their Prifoncr, now their Conijueror, they ftib- 
mitted to he bouiid alfo, and fo our Viftory was com- 
pleat. 

It now remain'd, that the Captain and I ihould en- 
quire into one another's Circumftances : I l>egan firft, 
and told him my whole Hiftory, which he heard with 
an Attention even to Amazement, and particularly at 
the wonderful Manner of my beina furniih'd with I'ro- 
vificrs and Ammunitioni and indeed, as my Story is 
a whole Colleilion of Wonders, it aifeAed him deeply ; 
but when he refleifted from thence upon himlelf, and 
how I feem'd to have been [n-eferv'd there on purpofe 
to &ve his Life, tlw Tears ran doivn his Face, and ha 
could not fpeak a Word more- 
After this Communication was at an End, T carry'd 
him and his two Men into my A partment, leading them 
in jufl where I came out, vi^ , at the Top of the Houle^ 
where I refrcfli'd them with fuch Provifions as I had; 
and &ew'd them all the Contrivances 1 had made, dur* 
i«g iBy.longi long, inhabiting that Place. 

All I Jhew'd them, all I faid to them,, was perfeftl>< 
i but above all, the Captain admc'd my For* 
M 4 tific»- 



Ho.ted by Google 



(h8) .. 

tification, and how pevteftly I had conceal'd my Re- 
ireatwitii a Grove ofTrceSj which having teen now 
planted ne.ir twenty Years, and the Trees growing 
much iallcr than in Enn'-anti, was become a little Wood, 
and lu thick, tliat it was unpaffabk in any Part ot it ; 
l;ut at that one Side, where I had relerv'd my little 
winding Paffage into it: This, I told him, was my Caftle 
Btid my Keiidtnce ; but that 1 had a beat in the Coun- 
t-y, as moil Princes have, wliither 1 could retreat upon 
Occafjon, atid Iwouldftew him that too another Time ; 
bat at preleiif our Buiinefs was toconfider, how to re- 
cover the ihip ; He agreed with me as to that; but 
t(jld me, he wbs perieftly at a Lofs what Mealures to 
take ; for that there were ftill fix ard twenty Hands on 
Board, who having enter'd into a ciirfed Conrpitacy, 
by which tliey had all forieited their Lives to the Law, 
would be hardeti'd in if now by Derperation ; and wculil 
carry it on, knowing that if they were reduc'd, tbey 
Jhculd i)e brought (o the Gallows as fcon as they came 
■ to K/i^kad, or to any of the E>j^lijo Colonies ; and thai 
thcrefoie there would be no ntiacking them with la 
linall a Number as we were. 

I muled for feme time upon what he had faid, and 
found it was a very rational Conclufioa , and that 
therefore fomething was to be refolved on very fpeedily, 
as well to draw the Men on Board into fome Snare for 
their Surprize, as to prevent their Landing upon iis> 
and deftroying us; Upon this it prefently occur'd to 
me, that in a little while, the Ship's Crew wondering 
what was become of their Comrades, and of the Boat, 
would certainly come on Shore in their other Boat, to 
lee for them, and thr.t then perhaps they might come 
arm'd, and be too ftrorg ibr us: This he allow'd was 
rational. 

Upon this I fold him, the firft Thing we had to do, 
was to ftave the Boat, which lay upon the Beach, fa 
that thfy might not carry her oft ; and taking ever* 
thing out of her, leave her fo tar ufelefs as not to beiic 
to r*im ; accordingly we went on Board, took the Arms 
which were left on Board, out of her, and wjiaterer. 
«M- we found there, which was a Bottle of Brandy, and 
■notlicr of Runi) a few Bisket Cake% a Horn of Pow« 
I 4erj 



.;, Google 



f. J57 ) 



&.y%Rehl>if0n ; To he asked the Captain, and the Cap- 
tain himlelf then calls outj You S/uitO, you know my 
Voice, if j'ou lay down joui' Arms immediately, and 
iiibmic, you ihaJl have your Lives, all but Will. At- 
Lms: 

Upon this, If^lB. Jtkins cry'd out. For God's fake. 
Captain, give mi Suaitei, What have I done .' Jhey have 
been ali as bad as } ; which by tlieWay was not true 
neither ; for it Teems thisWi//. /Jtkins was the fivft Man 
that laid hold of the Captain, when they firft mutiny 'd, 
and ul'ed him barbaroufly, in tjing his Hands, and giv- 
ing him injurious Language : However, the Captain 
lold him he mull lay down his Arms at Difotsdon, 
anc^ruft to the Governour's Mercy, by which he meant 
me ; for tliey aO call'd me Governour. 

In a Word, they all laid down their Arms, and beg- 
ged their Lives ; and f fcnt the Man that had parley'd 
with tlieoi, and two more, who bound them all ; and 
then my great Army of 50 Men, which particularly 
with thole three, were all but eight, came up and leiz'd 
upon them dl, and upon their Boat, only that I kept 
my lelf and one mure out of Sight, for Reafons of State. 

Our next Work was to tepaie the Boat, and to think 
of faiMog the Sbip ; and as tor the Captain, now he had 
Leifure to parley with them, he expoftulated-w.ith them 
upon the Viilany of their PraAices with him, and at 
length, upon the farther Wickednefs of their Delign ; 
and how certainly it niuft bring them to Miicry and 
DillMfs in the End, and perhaps to the Gallows. 

Tfiey all appear'd very penitent, and begg'd hard 
for their Lives: As for that, he told them they were- 
none of his Prifoners, but the Commander's of the 
Ifland ; that they thought they had fet him or Shore in 
a barren uninhabited Illand, but it had pleas'd God fo 
to direil them, that the Ifland was inhabited, and that 
the Governour was an En^UJh Man; that he might 
hang them all there, if he pleas'd ; but as he had given 
them all Quartet, lie fuppos'd he would fend them to 
England, to be dealt with there, as Juftice requir'd, ex- 
cept Atkins, who he ivas commanded by the Governour. 
to advife to prepare ior Death j for that, he would be 
bing'd la t^ MoEfiing. 
c , . Though. 



.;, Google 



( =S8 } 

Though this was all a Fiftion of his own, yet i'c knti 
ks deiired Effeft; Jtkias fell upon his Knees Co b:g the 
Captain to intercede with the Governour for his Lile, 
aDdalltheteft begg.'d of htm fbrGod's fake,- that they 
Kiiglit not be fent to England. 

It now ocnii r'd to me, that the Time of oiw Deli- 
veraiJcs was come, and tbat it woidd be a moil ealy 
Thing to bring ihele Fellow? in, to be hearty in j^etting 
Pofleflian of the lliip ; fo ( retir'd in the Dark Iram 
them, that they might not fee what Rind of a Guvtt- 
roiir thex had, and call'd the Captain to nie ; when [ 
call'd, as at a gpod Dillanw, one of the Men ivas or- 
der'd to fpe-tk again, and fay to tlie Captain, Captata, 
tbe Camwander mlis fcr jtu ■■, and prcfently the Ca^ttin 
reply'd, Tell his EXceBenry, J am \ufl a enming : This 
more perleftly amus'd them ; and they all believ'd, that 
the Coiiiniander was juft by with h's fifty Men, 

Upon the Captain's coming to me, i told him my 
Proji.ifi for fcitirg the Ship, which he lik'd of wonder- 
fully wcU, and lelblv'd to put it in Execution the next 
Morning. 

. But ill Order to execute it with more Ari, and to be, 
fecure of Suceels, I told him we mull divide the Pri- 
fcners, and that he Ihould go and take Aiias and lwi> 
teote aithe woril uf them, and (efid tfaem pitnionld ta 
the Cave where die others lay ; This, was committed to. 
Sriday and the two Men who came on Shore with the 
Obtain. 

riiey convey'd them to the Cave, as to t Prifonf 
and it was, indeed, a dilisal Place, efpecially to Men 
in their Condition. 

The otber I ordc!'''d to my Bower, as I call'd it, of 
which I have given a full Defciiption ; and as it was 
fcnc'd in, and they piniuo'd, thePlacewasfecure enough^ 
confidering thej were upon their Behavioar. 

To theic in the Morning I fent the Captain, who 
was to enter into a Parley with them ; in a Word, to try 
them, and tell me, whether he thought they tn^^ib 
be trulled re no, to go on Board and liirpriie the Sspj 
He tallc'd to them of the Injury done him, of the Gon- 
dition they were brought toj ind that tho' the Gover- 
nour had given thenn^uarter for thciilJi-e%a« Ki,thd 



., Google 



( ^59) 



prefent Aftion, yet that if they were ftnt to Esg/mii?, 
tliey would all be hang'd in Chains, tu be fure ; btit 
ihat it they would join in fuch an Attempt, as to re. 
cover tjic Ship, he would have the Governouc's En- 
gagement for their Pardon. 

Anyone may gucfs how readily firch a Prepofal would 
he accepted by Men in their Condition ; they fell down 
on their Knees to the CaplMn, and promtfed with tha 
deepert Imprecations, that they would be faithful to 
him to the laft Drop, and that they lliould owe their 
Lives to him, and would go with him all over the 
World ; that they would own him tor a Father to tliem^ 
as long as they liv'd. 

Well, fays the Captain, I muft go and teSl the Go- 
vernour what you fay, and fee what I can do to bring, 
him to confent to it : So he brought me an Account of 
the Temper he tbund them in ^ and that he verily be- 
lieved they would be faithiiJ. 

However, that we might be very fecure, I told hiiii 
he ihould &o back again, and chule out five of them, and 
tell them, they ihouid fee that he did not want Men j 
but he would take out thofe five to be his Affiftants, 
and that the Governour would keep the other two, and 
the three that were lent Frifoners.to the CalUe (myCavey 
asHoflages, for the Fidelity of tliofc five; and that i 
they prov'd unfaithful in the Execution, the five HoP- 
tages fliould be hang'd in Chains alive upon the Shore^ 

1 his look'd Were, and con vinc'd them that the Go- 
Ternour was in Earneiti however, they had no Way 
left them bat to accept it; and it was now the Buitnels- 
of the Pridmers, as much as of the Captain, to peiT 
fwade the other five to do their Duty. 

Our Strength was now thus ordcr'd for tbe Expedi- 
tion. I. The Captain, bis Mate, and Paffenger. 2., 
Then the two Priihners. of the firft Gang, to whom^ 
having their CharaAers from the Captain, I bad given. 
their Liberty, and tnifted tbem with Arms. 3. The 
other two, (vliom I had kept till now in niy Bower 
pinion'd, but, upon the Captain's Motion, bad now 
releai'd. 4. Thefe five releas'd at laftj fo that they 
were twelve in all, befides fire we kept Priiincrs in the 
Caxc for Ho&ages. 



..Google 



( 



l6o ) 



^L^i *h' 9^Pf^'"' I*" he was willing to rentnre 
Wth Ihefe Hands on board the Ship ? For, as for me 
and my Man Fr/rfay, I did not think it was proper for 
Bstoftii-, having feven Men left behind; and it w?s 
tmplojjnent enough fbr us to keep them afundei-, and 
Juppiy them with Vifluals, 

As to the five in the Cave, I refolv'd to keep them 
m-, hut Fr>d^ went twice-a Day to them/to fup- 
ply them with Neceffaries; and I made the other t^^o 
carry Provifiuns to a certain Diftanee, wljere Fnday 
was to take it. "^ 

When I Jhew'd my felf ro the two Hoflages, it was 
with the Captain, who told them, I was ihe Perfon 
the Governoar had urder'd to look after thsm, and that 
It was the Governour's Pieafure they (hould not ftir any 
where but by my DiredHon ; that if they did, they 
ftould be ferch'd into tlie Caftle, and be laid in Irons • 
fo that as we never liifTer'd them to fee me is Gover- 
rout^ Co I now appear'd as another Perfon, and fpoke of 
the Governour, the Garrifon, the Caftle, and rhc like 
upon all Occalions. 

The Captain now had no Difficulty before him hut 
tofurmlh his two Boats, flop the Breach of one, and 
JVlan them ; He made his Paflenger Captain of one. 
With four other Men ; and himfelt, and his Mate, and 
^vemore, went in the other; And they contriv'd their 
^iinefs very well ; for they came up to the Ship about 
^idnight : As foon as they came within Call of the 
Ship, he made R',bmfi» hale them, and tell them he had 
brought off the Men and the Boat, but that it was a 
Jong rime befbre they had found them, and the lite; 
holding them in a Chat, till they came to the'Sbip's 
Side ; when the Captain and the Mate, entering firft 
with their Arms, imjiiedjately knoek'd down the Se- 
cond Mate and Carpenter with the But-end of their 
^luskets, being very (aithfuUy feconded by their Men ■ 
they fecur'dall the reft that we.e upon the Main and 
Quarter-Decks, and began to faften the Hutches -to keep 
them down who were below, when the other Boat and - 
their Men entering at the Fore Cli ail is, fecur'd the ^ 
tore-Caftle of the Shifj-and the Skuttle which w*;nt ^ 
, ■ ■ ■■ -^wa Jj 

Ho.r-db;,GoO^Ic 



.;, Google 



( ^61 ) 

Aovin -inio tlie Cook-Room, making three Men they 
found there Prilbners. 

When this was done, and all Tafc upon Deck, tlie 
Captain order'd the Mate with three Men to break into 
the Round-HouCe, where the new Rebel Captain lay, 
and, having taken the Alarm, was gocten up, and with 
two Men and a Boy had gotten fire-Arnis in their 
Hands ; and when the Mate with a Crow Ipht open 
the Door, the new Captain and his Men Jir'd boldly 
among them, and wounded the Mate with a Musket- 
Ball, wJiich broke his Arm, and wounded two more of 
the Men, but kiil'd no body. 

The Mate calling for Help, rulh'd however into the 
Round-Houfe, wounded as he was, and with his Fiftol 
ihot the new Captain though the Head, the Bullet en- 
tering at bis Mouth, and came out again behind one of 
JiisEarsi lo that he never fpoke a Word; upon which 
the reft yielded, and the Ship was taken effeftually, 
without any more Lives loft. 

As foon as the Ship was thus fecur'd, the Capta-io or- 
der'd feven Guns to be fir'd, which was the Signal agreed 
upon with me, to give me Notice of his Succels, which 
you may be fure 1 was very glad to hear, having fat 
watching upon the Shore for it, till near two ot the 
Clock in the Morning. 

Having thus heard the Signal plainly, I laid me down; 
and it having been a Day of great Fatigue to mgj I llept 
vciy found, till I was fomething furpriz'd with the 
Noife of a Gun ; and prerently ftarting up, 1 heard a 
Man call me by the Name ot Governour, Governour, 
and pretently ! knew the Captain's Voice, when climb- 
ing up to theTopoP the Hill, there he flood, and point- 
ing to the Slup, he embrac'd me in his Aim% My Jcar 
Friend and Dtikverer, Tays he, Ihire's your Sh'/p, forjke 
isaUy^ars, and fo are vis and alt that beUt^ U.her s I 
caft my Eyes to the Ship, and there ftie rode within 
Jittle more than half a Mile of the Shore ; for they had 
weigh'dhcr Anchor as foon as they were Maftersofherj 
and the Weather being fair, had brought her to an An- 
chor juft againft the Mouth of the Tittle Creek ; and 
Ibe Tide being up, the Captain had brought the Pin- 
nace 

Ho^r^dbyGoO^L' 



( ^i' ) 

aaee in near tlie Place where I firft laniej my Rafts^ apj 
lb hnded juft ^t my Door. 

I was at iirll ri'ady to link down with the Surprize; 
For I Taw my Deliverance indeed vifibly put into my 
Hands, all Things ealy, and a large Ship juQ; ready to 
carry me away whither 1 pleafed to go; At iirft, for 
Ibrae Time, 1 was not able to anfwer liirn one Word ; 
but as he had taken me in his Arms, 1 held taft by him, 
or I fliculd have fallen to the Ground, 

He perceiv'd the Sarpriie, and immediately pulls a 
Bottle out ol' his Pocke^ and gave mc a Dram ot' Cor- 
dial, which he had brought on purpofe tor me ; after [ 
drank it, I fat down upon the Ground, and though it 
■hrought me Xo my feU, yet it was a good while before 
I could fpeak a W ord to him. 

All this while thepoor Man wasiii as great an Extafy 
asl, only not under any Surprize, as i was; and he 
iaid 3 thoufand kind tender 1 hings to me, to compofe 
and bring me to my leif ; Iwt fuch was the Flood ol Joy 
in my Breail, that it put all my Spirits into Confulion; 
at lall it broke out into Tears, and in a little while after 
i recover'd my Speech. 

Then I took my Turn, and embracti him as my De- 
liverer ; and we rejoyc'd together : t told bim, I look'd 
*ipon him as a Man fent from Heaven ti deliver me, 
and that the whole Tranfadion fecm'd to be a Chain ai 
Wonders; that fuch Things as tbefe were the Tefli- 
monies we had of a fecret Hand of Providence govern- 
ingthe World, andan Evidence, that the Eyes of an 
inlinire Power could fearch into the remoteft Corner of 
the World, and fend Help to the Milerable whenever 
Jie plea fed. 

I forgot nrtt to Hit up my Heart in Thankfulnefs to 
Heaven ; and what Heart could forbear to blefs him, 
who had not only in a miracQlous Manner provided lor 
one in f«ch a Wildernefe, and in fudi a defoUtc Condi- 
tion, but from whom every Deliverance muft always be 
acknowledged to proceed ! 

When we had talk'd a while, the Captain told me, 

lie had brough t me fome little Etelrethments, JUeii as the 

Ship affbrded.and fuch as the Wretoheswho bad faeen fo 

-long bbMaflcrsbadaocplmider'd'btiii of: U.pon this 

he 



Go-og e 



■'^^ 



he caird aloud to the Boat^ and bicl hjs Men "bring tlie 
Tilings a-lhore tbat were for the Governour ; and in- 
deed It was a I'relent, as It I had been one, not that was 
to be carrj-'d p.lung withthenij buc as if I had been 
10 dwell upon the Ifland ftill, and they were to go wlth- 

Hrft he had brought me a Cafe of Bottles full of ex- 
cellent Cordial Waters, (is large Bottles ofASadeia Wine ; 
liie Bottles held two Quarts a-piece ; two Pound of 
excellent good Tobacco, twelve good Pieces of the Ship's 
Beef, andiix Pieces of Pork, with aBagofPeife, and 
about a hundred Weight of Bisket. 

He brought me alio a Box of Sugar, a Box ot Flow- 
er, a Bag full oi Lemons, and two Bottles of Lime-juice, 
and abundanceof other Things; But be£des tliefe, and 
what was a ihoul'and times more ufeful to me, he brought 
me fix clean new Shirts, fijc very good Neckcloth^ 
two Pairot Gloves, one Pair of Shi«s, a Hat, and one 
]'air of Stockings, and a very good Suit of Cloaths of 
his own, which bad been worn but very little : In a 
Word, he cloathed me from Head to Foot. 

It was a very kind and agreeable I'relent, aa any one 
jBay imagine, to one in my Circuraftanccs ; But n^ver 
wasany thingin the World of that Kind fo anpleaiaiit, 
•awkard, and uneafy as it was to me to wear fu;h Cloaths 
-at their firft putting on. 

Afterthete Ceremonies pad, and after all his good •' 

Things were brought into my little Apartment, we lie- 
ganto confult what was to be done with the PrilbiKrs 
we had ; ibr it was worth conlldering, whether we 
Jiiighc venture to take them away -with us or no, efpc- 
ciaily two of them, whom we knew to be inccTiigible 
and refaiSory to the laft Degree; and tlie Captain faid, he 
Jtnewthey were fach Rogues, that there was no oblig- 
ing them, and if hs did earrj' them away, it mulVbein 
Irons, as Malefaiiors, to he deliver'd over to Jufticea 
ithe firft Eitglijh Colony he could come at ; and [ found 
that the Captain himlelf was very ansious about it.' 

Uponthit, ] told him, thait it lie delir'd it, I durll 
■undertake to bring the two Men he fpoke cf, to make 
it their own Keqiiell: that he fiiould leave them upon tb« 
Jlland : I jhaald be very glad o^' that, iajs tlie Captain, \ 

wiltbaU my Heart. Wdl, ; 

I ■ Good 



( 2«4 ) 

Well, fdjs /, I will Tend for them up, and t:i!k ii'ich 
■them for you : So I caus'd Friday a^id the two Hollagt-s, 
for they were now difcharg'ii, their Comrades having 
^perforni'd their I'-romile ■. I lay, \ caus'd tbeni to go lu 
-the Cave, and bring up ttie five Men, pinion'd as theyl 
were, to the Bower, and keep them there till I came. 

After iome Time, I came thither drefs'd in my neivj 
Habit, and now ] was call'd Governour again ; being 
all met, and the Captain with me, I caus'd the Men to 
i>e brought before me, and I told ttiem, I had had a ful! 
Account of their villainous IBehaviour to the Captain, 
and how they had run away with the Ship, and were 
-preparing to commit farther Robberies, but, that Pro. 
vidence had enfnar'd themin their own Ways, and that 
they were fallen into the Pit which they bad digged 

I let them know, that by my Direftion the Ship had! 
-been feii'd, that (he lay now in the Road, and they might 
fee by -and -by, that their new Captain had receiv'd thej 
Reward of his Villainy ; for that they might lee him | 
hanging at the Yard- Arm. 

That as to them I wanted to know what they had to 
fay, why I ihould not eicecute^them as Pirates taken in 
the Faft, as by my Commiffion they could nw: doubt t 
had Authoritj' to do. 

One ofthem anfwer'd in the Name oPthereft, Thael 
they had nothing to fay butthis. That when they weri;\ 
taken, the Captain promis'd them their L.ives, and they 1 
Jiumbly implor'd my Mercy r But I told thtm I kni,™ 
iiot what Mercy to (hew them ; for, as for my felf, I j 
hadrefolv'd to quit the Ifland with all my Men, and' 
had taken Paffage with the Captain to go for jEw/antf: i 
And as for the Captain, he could not carry them to ' 
Engiand, other than as Prifoners in Irons to be try'd for ' 
Mutiny and running away with the Ship ; the Confe- 
■quence of which, they mull needs know, would be the 
Galluws; fo that I could not tell which was bed for 
them, unlefs they had a Mind to take their Fate in the 
Ifland ; if they defir'd that, I did not care, as I had'i 
Liberty to leave it, I had fouie Inclination to give thejii 1 
aheir Lives, ifthey thought they could IhifcoD Shore. 

-.■.■■■■ . .' ■ '• They I 



..GoLH^If.* 



(»6; ) 

Tliey feemM very thankful for it, fa id they wouM 
mitcli rather venture to ftay there, than to be carrj'M Co 
England to be hang'd ; lb 1 left it on that Illue- 

However, the Captain fecni'd to make Ibme Difficul- 
ty otit, as if he durft not leave them there : Upon this 
I leem"d a little angry with the Captain, and told him. 
That they weve my I'riliinei-s not his ; and that feeing 
I had offer'd tliem fo m;i^h Favour, I woald be as go(-d 
as my Word ; and that if he did not think fit to content 
to it, I would fet chem at Libtity as I found them ; 
and if hedidnot like that, -he might take them again if 
he could catch thcra. 

Upon this they appeared very tharkful, and I accord- 
ly fet them at Lifceriy, and bad thtm retire into ths 
Woods, to the Place whence they came, and I would 
leave them feme Fire Arms, fome Aiiimanition, and 
fome Direaions how they fliould live veiy vsell, if they 
thought -fit. 

Upon this, I prepar'd to go on Board the Ship, but 
told the Captain, that I would ftay that Night to pre- 
pare my Things, and deiir'd him to go on Board in tlie « 
mean Time, and keep all tight in the Shi[>, and fend 
the Boat on Shorethe ne« Day for me ; ordering him, 
in the mean time, toeaufe-the new Captain who was 
kiil'd, to be hang'd at the Vard-Arm, that thele Men 
might fee him. 

W4ien the Captain was gone, I fent for the Men up 
to me to my Apartment, and enter'-d ferioufly into Dil- 
courfe with them of their Circuniftances: 1 told them, 
I thought they had made a right Choice; that if the 
Captain carry'd them away they would certainly be 
hang'd : I fliewed them the new Captain hanging at the 
Vard-Arm ofthe Ship, and told them they had nothing 
lefs to expeft. 

When they had all declar'd their wlHingnefs to ftay, 
I then told them, I would Set them into the Story o? 
my living there, and put them into the Wayofmaking 
it eafy to them ; Accordingly I gave them the whole 
Hiftory of the Place, and ot my coming to it ; fliew'd 
them my Fortifications, the wayl mademy Dread, plant- 
ed my Corn, cured my Grapes ; and in a Word, all that 

IS jieceflary to make them eafy: 1 told them the Sto- 
N ry 



,Googl' 



( 166 ) 



i-ry alfo cf the Gxteen S/aniards thai were to be expefted J 
ior whom I left a Letter, and made them promire to 
.treat them in common with theinlevcs. 

I left them my Fire-Arms, vi^. five Muskets, three 
Fowling- Pieces, and three Swords : I liad ahout a 
Barrel of' Powder left; for after the firll Year or 
two, 1 iifed but little, and wafted none : I gave tliem a 
Delcription cjf tbe Way I managed the Goals, and Di- 
rections to milk and fatten them, and to make both But- 
ter and Cheefe. 

In a Word, 1 gave them every Part of my own Story; 
and I told them, ( would prevail with the Captain to 
leave them two Barrels ot Gun-Powder more, and fome 
Garden-ieeds, which I told them I would have beea 
^'ery glad of; alio I gave them the Bag ol Peafe whieh 
the Cai>tain had brought me to eat, and bad them be 
liire to low and encrcak them. 

Having done all this, I left them the next Day, and 
went on lioard the Ship." We prepar'd immediately to 
fail, but did not weigh that Night -■ The next Morn- 
ing early, two of the five Men came fwiraming to the 
Chip's Side, and niaking a moft lamentable Complaint of 
ihe other three, begg'd to be taken into the Ship, for 
God's Sake, for they fhould lie murder'd and begg'd the 
Captain to take them on Board, f ho' he hang'd them 
immediately. 

Upon this, the Captain pretended to hive no Power 
v/ithotttme; butafter fomC' DifEculty, and after their 
fulemn Promiies of Amendment, they were taken on 
Board, and were fjuie time after foundly whipp'd and 
pickled J after which they prov'd very honeft and quiet 
JFellows. 

Some time after this, I tvent with the Boat on Shore, 
the Tide being up, with the Things promifed to the 
Men, to which the Captain, at my Intcrceffion, caus'd 
their Cherts and Cloaths to be added, which they took, 
and were very thankful for: I alio encourag'd them, 
hy telling them, that if it lay in my Way to fend any 
Veflel to take them in, I woald not forget them. 

When I took Leave of this Ifland, I carry'd on Board: 
for Reliqaes the great Goat's Skin Cap I had made, my 
lljubreUa, and one of my Parrots ; aJfo I forgot ppj 



.;, Google 



( i«7 ) 

to take the Money I foi-msrly mentimM, vvliidihad lain 
. b)' me To long ulclels, that ic was grown rufty, or t^r- 
nifli'd, and could hardly pafs tor Sih'erj til) it had been 
a little rubb'd and handl'd ; ns alio tlie Monty I found 
in the Wreck of the Spamjh Ship. 

And thus I left the Ifiand the Nineteenth of JJecem. 
bsr^ as I found by the Ship's Account, in the Year iSiCi, 
after I had been upon it eight and twenty Years, t.vo 
Months, and nineteen Dajs ; being deliver'd from thu 
■fecond Captivity the fame Day of the Month that I liril: 
made my Efcape in tht Barcc-Lcngc, from among the 
Mocn oi'SaUne. 

In this Ve/leij after a long Vojage, I arriv'd in Eng- 
land, the Eleventh of j^HHs, in the Year 1687, liaving 
been thirty and five Years abfent. 

When I came to England, I was a perfeft Stranger to 
al! the World, as if 1 had never been known there : 
My Betiefsftor and faithful Steward, whtrni I had left 
in Truft with my Money, was alivCj but had had great 
Misfortunes in the World, was become a Widoiv the 
fecond Time, and very low in the World : I unde hsr 
caiy as to what ihe ow'd me, afluring her, I would give 
het no Trouble ; Iwit on the contrary, in gratitude t» 
her former Care and Faithfulnels to ms, 1 reliev'd hsc 
as my little Stock would afford, which at that Time 
would indeed allow me to do but little for her } but I 
affui'd her, I would never forget lier former Kindnefs to 
me ; nor did I forget her, when 1 had iiiflicient to help 
her; asfhallbe oblerv'din its Place. 

I went donn afterwards into Turifii/e ; but my Fa- 
ther was dead, and my Mother, and all the Family ex- - 
tinft ; except that I found t\vo Sifters, and two of the 
Children of one of my Brothers ; and as I had been long 
ago given over for dead, there Bad been no Provifion 
made for me, lb th«, in a Word, I found nothing to 
relieve oraffift me ; andthat little Monej- 1 had, would 
not do fo much lor uie, as to iettling in the World. 

I met with one Piece of Gratitude indeed, which I 
did not expcft ; and this was, That the Mailer ofthe 
Ship, whom [ had To happily deliver'd, and by the fame 
Means lav'd the Ship and Cargo, having given a very, 
bandfome Account to the Owners, oftlie Manner how [ 
N 2 had 



( 268 ) 

had lav'cl tlie Lives ol the Men, and the Ship, they in- 
vited me tu meet them, and fome other Merchants eon- 
cern'd, and all together made me a very handlome 
Complement upon tlie Subjeft, and a Prefenc ofalmoft 
two hundred PtiUnds Sterhng. 

But after making feveral Reflexions upon the Cir- 
cumllaiicts of my Liie, and how little \^ ay this wculd 
go towards fettling me in the World, I refolv'd to go to 
±isinn, and fee it J might not come by fome Informa- 
tion ol theitate ot my l-lantation in the Bmjii!, and 
ut wlist was become of my partner, who I had Realon 
to liippolc had fome Years now, given me over for dead- 

With this View I took Shipping lor Lhbi^ftf where I 
arriv'd in ^;in7 fullowing i my Man fw/iy accompa- 
nyinj), me very honelUy in all tliefeKamblings.and prov- 
ing a mcft laithfUl Servant upon all Occafions. 

When t came to Liibm, I Ibund out, hy Enquiry, and 
to my particular Satisfaftion, my old Friend the Cap- 
tain of the Ship, who firfl took me up at Sea, off of the 
ihore of j^f'ki : He was now grown old, and had left 
cfftheSea, having put his Son, who was far from a 
young Man, into his Ship ; and who ftil^ ufed rheHfa- 
fil Trsde. The old Man did not know me, and, in- 
deed, J hardly knew lum ; but I fooii brought my felf 
to his Remembrance, when I told him who I was. 

After Ibme pailionate Exprcilions of our old Acquaint- 
ance, 1 enquir'J, you may be fure, after my Plantation 
and my Partner: The old Man told me, he had not 
Ijeen in tbe Srafils for about nine Years; hut that he 
could aflure me, that when he came away, my Partner 
was living, but the Truftees who I had join'd with him 
to take Cognizance of my Part, were both dead ; that 
however, he believ'd that I would have a very good 
Account of the Improvemert of the Plantation; for 
that upon tbegeneraf Belief of my lieing caft away and 
drown'd, my Truflees Iiad given in the Account of the 
Pro'duee of my Part of the Plantation, to the Procurator 
Fiteal ; who had appropriated it, in Cafe I never came 
to claim it, one Third to the King, and two Thirds to 
. the Monaftery of St. j^ugufltn, to he expended for the 
Benefit of the Poor, and for the Converfion of the In- 
ifiiWj to the CathoUck Faith; but that if I appear'd. 



.;, Google 



( 2«9 ) 

or any one for me, to claim fhe InheriCTtice, it fliould 
be rfftor'd ; only that the Improvement, oi annual I'r^)- 
duftion, being dtiltibuted to charitable Ufcs, could not 
be reftor'd ; but he atVured me, that the Steward of 
the Ring's Revenue Cirom Lands J aod the Provedore, 
or Steward of the Monaftery, had taken great Caie ail 
along, that the Incumljent, that is to fa>, my Partner, 
gave every Year a faithful Account ol the Produce, of 
which they received duly my Moitty. 

lask'dhim, Ifheknewto whnt Height oflniprove- 
ment he had brou^jht the Plantation ? And, whether 
he thought it might be worth looking after ? or whe- 
ther, on my going thither, I (hould meet with no Ob- 
flruftion to my polfcffing my juft Right in the Moiety ? 

He told me, he could not tell exarftly to what De- 
gree the Plantation was iniprov'd; but this he knew, 
that my Partner was grown exceeding rich upon the 
enjojinghut oneHalfofit; and that, to the iieft of 
his Remembrance, he had heard, that the King's Third 
of my Part, which was, it fcems, granted away to 
fome other Monaflery, or Religious Houfe, amounted 
to above two hundred Moidores a Year ; that as to my 
feting reftor'd to a fiuiet Poffcffion of it, there was no 
QuelUon to be made of that, my Partner being alive to 
witnefs my Title, and my Name being alfo enroll'd in 
the Regiftec of the Country : Alio he told me, that the 
Survivors of iny two Trutlees, were very fair honeft 
People, and very Wealthy'; and he believ'd I would not 
only have their AlTiftance lor putting me in PolTeffion, 
but would find a very confiderahle Sum of Money in 
their Hands, for my Account ; being the Produce of 
the Farm, while their Fathers held the Truft, and be- 
fore it was given up, as above, which, as he remem- 
ber'd, was for about twelve Years, 

I Ihew'd my lelf a little concern'd, and uneafy at this 
Account, and enquir'd of the old. Captain, how it came 
to pa fs, that the Trufles thould thus dirpofe of my 
Eff-edrs, when he knew that I had made my Will, and 
had made him, the Pcrtumefe Captain, my univerfal 
Heir, i$r. 

■ He told me, that was true ; but that as there was noi 

Prool' of my being dead, he cpuld not aA as Executor, 

N 3 until 



•8l| 



( J?" ) 



until Ibme certain Account Ihould come of mj- Death ; 
and that belides, he was not willing to intermeddle 
with a Thing To remote : I'liat it was true, he had Re- 
giiler'd my Will, and put in bis Claim; and could he 
have given any Account oi'my being dead or alive, be 
would liave aftcd by PrtJcuration, and taken- Pofll;!- 
Jion of the li\^enlo f (b they call'd the Sugar-HoufeJ and 
had given his SoUj who was now at the F.rajih, Or- 
der to do it, 

Eiit, fays the old Man, I have one piece ofNewsto 
tell you, which, perhaps, may not Iw lb acceptable to 
you as the red:, and that is. That believing ) ou were 
loll, and all the World believing fo alfo, your Partner 
and Truftees did offer to acconipt to me in your Name, 
for Cix or eight of the firft Years of Profits, which I 
receiv'd ; but there being at that Time, fays he, great 
Disburfements for Increaling the Works, building an 
ifigenii), and buying Slaves, it did rtt amount to near 
fo niucii as alterivards it produc'd ; However, fays the 
old Man, I fliall give you a true Account of what I 
have receiv'd in all, and how I have difpos'd olit. 

After a lew Days iarther Conference with this an- 
cient Friend, he brought me an Account of the fix firft 
Years Income oFniy Plantation, fign'd by my Partner, 
and the Merchant's Truffiees, being always deliver'd in 
Ooods, wi^. Tobacco in Roll, and Sugar in Chefts, lie- 
iides Rum, MoiofTcs, E5c. which is the Confequence of 
a Sugar-Work; and I found, by this Account, that e- 
very Year tlis Income confiderably increas'd : But, as 
above, the Dishurfemcnt being !:irge, the Sum at firft 
was Iball : However, the old Man let me fee, that he 
was Debtor to me 470 Moidores of Gold, befidcs 60 
Chdls ot Sugar, and 1$ double Rolls of Tobacco, wKch 
ivere loft in his Ship; he having been lliip-wreck'd 
coming Home to Zhkn, about 1 1 Years alter my leav- 
ing the Place, 

The good Man then begun to complain of his Mis- 
fortunes, and how he h,id been oblig'd to make Ufe of 
my Money to recover his LofTes, and buy him a Share 
inancw'Ship: However, my old Friend, fays be, you 
Jhall not want a Supply in your Neceflity ; and as lijon 
as jny Son returns, you fiiall be fully fatisty'd. 

Upon 



..Google 



( '70 

Upon this, he pulls out anoldPoudi, antlgiveime 
l6o Shrtugal Moidures in Gold; and giving me tlie 
Writings ofhis Title tu the Ship, which his Son was- 
gone to the ^/■((ff/i in, of which he was a (luarttr-Part- 
Owner, and his Son anocher, he puts them both into 
my Hands for Security of the reft- 

I was too much mov'd with the Honefty and Rindnefe 
of the" poor Han, to be able to bear this; and rcmeni- 
brii>g what he had done for me, how he had taken me 
up at Sea, and how generouily he had uied nie on all 
Occafions; and, pavticulaity, how fmcere a Friend be 
was now to Pie, 1 could hardly refrain weeping, ac what 
he faid to nje : Therehbre, firlt I ask'd hin:, ii bis Cir- 
cumftances admitted him to fpare lb much Money at 
■that Time, and if it would rot (Iraiten him ? He told 
me, he could not lay hut it might ftraiten him a lit- 
tle 1 hut however, it was my Mony, and I niigiit 
want it more than he. 

Every thing the good Man faid, was lull of AfFee- 
'tion, and I could hardly refrain from Tears wliilc ua 
Ijjoke : In ihorl, I took lO") of ibc MoidoreSjatid eail'S 
«ir a Pen and Ink to give him a Heceipt for iheui; then 
I return'd ium tie reft, and told him, if ever i had 
■J^oireffion of the Plantation, i would return the other 
to him alfo, as indeed I afterwards did ; and that, as to 
the Bill of Sale of his Fart in his Sons Ship, I wcuU 
not take it by any Means ; but thst it I wanted the Mo- 
tty, I found he was honeft enough to pay me ; and if I 
did rot, hut catiie to receive what he gave me Reafoti 
to expert, 1 would never have a Penny more from liini. 

When this was pals'd, the old Man began to ask me, 
if he Ihoutd put me in a Method to make my Claim to 
my Plantation ^ I told him, I thought to go over to it 
my felf : He fddj I might do To if I pleas'd ; but that 
if t did not, there were Ways enough Co fecure my 
Right, and inuiiediately to appropriate the Profits to i 

my Ofe } and as there were Ships in the River of Lis- 
hsn, jufl ready to go away to Brafil, he made me enter ; 

my Name in a publick Regifter, with his Affidavit, at- 1 

firming updo Oath that I was alive, and that I was the j 

fame Perlon who took, up the Land for the Planting the . I 

-fcid Plantation at firft. I 

N 4 T"^ > il 



t 



( 272 ) 



This being regulaily attelled by a Notary, and a Pro-- 
curation affijt'd, he direfted me to fend it with a Letter 
ofhis Writing, to a Merchant ut' his Acquaintance at 
the I'lace, and then propos'd my Ihjing with him 'till 
an Account came ot the Retutn. 

Never any tiling was more honourabre than the Pro- 
ceedings upon this Procuration ; ibr in lels than feven 
Months I receiv'd a large Packet Irom the Survivors at' 
my Truftees, the Mercliants, for whole Account I went 
to Sea, in which were die following particular Letters 
and Papers enclofed. 

firjf, 1 liere was the Account Current of the Produce 
of rny Farm, or PUntatiorij from the Year when their 
Fathers had balanc'd rtith my old Portu^at Captain, be- 
ing for fix Years; the Balance appear'd to be 1174 
Moidores in mv Favour. 

Secondly, There was the Account of ftur Yeai's more, 
white they kept the Efteiis in their Hands, betbre the 
(iovernment cUim'd the Adminiftration, as being the 
Etftfls cf a Perfon not to he found, which they call 
CivU D^ath; and the Ballance of this, the Value of the 
Plantation encreafing, amounted to Cruifadoes, 
which made 3241 Moidjres, 

Thirdty, There was the Prior of the Au^ufliu'% Ac- 
count, who had receiv'd the Profits for above fourteen 
Years ; hut not being to account-for ivhat was dilpos'd 
10 the Hofpital, very honefHy declar'd he had 872 
Muidores not diflrihuted, which he acknowledged to 
my Account; As to the King's Part, that refunded 
nothing. 

There was alio a Letter of my Part ner's,congratul3ting 
me very afteflionatel)' upon my being alive ; giving jjie 
an Account how the Eftate wasiraprov'd, and what it 
produc'd a Year, with a Particular of the Number of 
iijuares or Acres thst it contain'd ; how planted, how 
many Slaves there were upon it ; and making two and 
twenty Crolles for Blcflings, told me, he had faid lb 
many '^ve Maria's to thank the Bleffed Virgin that I 
■was alive; inviting me very palTionatdy to come ov el- 
and take Poffellion of my own, and in the mean time to 
^ive him Orders to whom he ihould deliver my Ef- 
Jefls, if I did not come my felt; concluding with a 
heaiiy 



Google 



( 273 ) 

hearty Tender of his Friendihip, and tUt of his Fa- 
mil)*, and lent me, as a Prelenr, Icven fine Leopards 
Skins, which he had, it leenis, received hom j^frh a, by 
ibius other Slip which he had ll-nt thiiher, and who, 
it ieenis, had made a Ixtter \oy»ge th:in I : He lent 
me alfo five Cherts of excellent Sweetmeats, and an 
Hundred Pieces of Gold iineoin'd, not <iuite fo large as 
Moidores. 

By the lame Fleet, my two Merehant-TruHets ihipp'd 
me 120O Cheftsol" J'ugar, Sco Rolls of" Tobacco, and 
the reft of the whole Accompt in Gold. 

I might-well lay now, indeed, That the latter End of 
yd ^vas better than the Beginning : It is impoifiblc to- 
enprefs the Flutterings of my very Heart, when I 
look'd over thcfe Letters, and el'pecially when I found 
all my Wealth about me ; for as the Brajil Ships come, 
all in Fleets, the fanie Ships which brought my Ler- 
ters, brought itiy Goods; and the EffVifts were fafe in 
the TigMi before tbe Letter came to my Hand ; In a 
Wordi I turn'd pale, and grew Rzk ; siid had not the 
old Man run and fetch'd me a (Cordial, I believe the 
liidden Suiprize of Joy had overfct Nawire, and I hcid 
dy'd upon the Spot. 

Nay, after thnt I continued very ill, and was.fonie 
Hours, 'till a Phyfician being lent for, and Ibmsthing 
of the real Caufe of my Illnels being known, he order'd 
Die lo. let Blood ; After which I had ReliefJ and greiv 
well ; but I verily believe, if it had not been tas'd bv 
the Vent given in that Manner to the Spirits, t Ihoulct 
have dy'd. 

I was now Mailer, all on a fudden, of above -^ccoU 
Sterling in Money, and had an Ellate, as I miglit well 
call it, ill the Bia/its, of above a tlioufand I'ounds M 
Year, as fure as an Eflate of Lands in England; and, in- 
a Word, I was in a Condition which I fcarce knew how- 
to underftand, or how to eompofe my lelf for the En^-- 
joymenf of. 

The firilThing.I did, was to recompence my original. 
Benefaitor, my good old CapKiin, who had been firft- 
Charitable to me in mj' Diftrefs, Rind to me in the Be- 
ginning, and Honeft to me at the End : I Ihew'd him. 
all tliat was fent me ; I told him, that' neat- to tire' 
N 5. P.'»- 



( 274 ) 



Providence of Heaven, which difpores all Things, it 
was owing to him; and that it now lay , on me to re- 
ward him, which 1 would do a hundred told: So I 
firll returned to him the hundred Moidores I had re- 
ceived of him, then I lent for » Notary, and eauled 
liim to draw up a General Ueleafe or Difchnrge fbr the 
470 Moidores, which he had acknowledg'd he ow'd me, 
in the tidleft and firmed manner poffible; alter which, 
I eaus'd a Procurntion to be drawn, itnpoweritig him to 
fce my Receiver of the Annual Profits of my Plantatiun, 
and appointing my Partner to Aecompt to liim, and 
make the Returns hy the ufttal Heets to him in my 
Name: And a Claufe in the End, being a Grant ofico 
Moidores a Year 10 him, during his Liie, out of the Ef- 
fects, and so Moidores a Year tu his Son alter him, for 
iis Lite ; And thus 1 requited my old Wan. 

I was now to cor.fider which Way to (leer myCcuifi 
next, and what to do with the" Ellate that Providence 
bad thus put into my Hands ; and, indeed, I had more 
Care upon my Head now, than I had in my lilent State 
of Life in the I (land, whf re I wanted nothing but what 
1 had, and had nothing but what I vvaitted ; whereas I 
had now a great Charge upon me, and my Bulinefs 
was how to leciire it: I had ne'er a Cave now to hide 
my Money in, or a Place where it might lye without 
Lock or Key, 'till It grew mouldy and tarnilh'd betcre 
any Body would meddle with it; On the contrarj', I 
knew 'not where to put it, or who to cruft with it ; my 
old Patron, tbe Captain, indeed was honeft, and that 
was the only Refuge I had. 

In the next Place, my Intereft in tha Bmfils feem'd 
to fummon me thither ; but now I cojld not tell how 
to think if going thither, 'till 1 had fettled my Affairs, 
and left my Effefls in fome fafe Hands behind me : At 
firft I thought of my old Friend the Widow, who I 
knew was honeft, and would be jiift to me; but then 
Ihe was in Years, and but poor, and, for ought I knew, 
might be in Delit ; fo that, in a Word, I had no Way 
hut to go back to Engliuni my felf, and take my Eflfeds 
with me. ■ 1 

It was fome Months however fefore I refolv'd upon 

this i and therefore, as I had rewarded the old Captain 

fully, 



Google 



r>75 ) 

SaWy, and to SatisFaftion, who had been mj-former Be- 
iietaftor, fo I began to think oi'my poor \Mdow, whoi'e 
Husband had been my fiiH Beneiaiior, and ihe, whie 
it was in her Power, my tairhtul Stewaj-d and Infliu7- 
tor : So the firft Thing I did, 1 got a Merchant in 
Lisbin to write to his Correfpondcnt in Xcn^oi, not only 
to pay a Billj but to go find her out, and carry her in 
Money an hundred Pounds from nie, and to talk with 
her, and comlart her in her Poverty, by telling her, fte 
fiiould, it I liv'd, have a further iuppiy ; At the fame 
time 1 fent my two Sifterj in the Country, each of them 
an hundred Pounds, they being, tho' not in Want, yet 
not in very good Circumftatices ; one having been mar- 
ried, and lettkWidow, and the other having a Hu|^ 
band not fo kind to her as he foould be. 

But among all my Relalions or Acquaintances I could 
jic-t yet pitch upon one, to whom I durft commit the 
Grofsol my Stock, that 1 xni^bt go away to the £r«- 
pts, and leave Things fafe behind me ; and this grsatly 
perplexed me. 

1 had once a Mind to have gone to the Brafih, artd 
have lettled my felf there ; tor 1 was, as it were, na. 
turaliz'd to tlie Place ; but I had fome little Scruple in 
my Mind about Religion, which infenfibly drew me 
back, of which I Ihatl fay more prefently. Howevei^ 
Jt was not Religion that kept itie from going there for 
the prefpnt.; and as I had made no Scruple of being 
Dpenlyoftfae Religion of the Country, all the wliile 1 
was among them, fo-neither did I yet; only that now 
and then having oflate thought more ofit, ( than for- 
merly ) when I began to think of living and dying a - 
mung them, I b^gan to regret my having profeis'd my 
felf a Papiil, and thought it might not be the beft Re- 
ligion to die with- 

iiut, asl have faid, this was not the mainThing that' 
kept me irom going to tlie Brafils ; but that really I did 
not know with ivliom to leave my Etfe*is behind mo; 
fo I relblv'd ^lail to go to £r>glaid with it, where, if 
I arriv'd, I concluded I ihould make fome Acquaint- 
ance, or find fome Relations that would be faithful to 
me ; and aceordingly I prepared to go for En^Inad with 
;ill my Wei(ltb. . . 

Ho...,,Goo^^I 



■ In order to prepare Things for my going Home, t 
firft ( the Bra/il Fket being jufb going a way J refolv'i 
to give Anlwers iuicable to tlie juft and taithiiii Ac^ 
CLunt of"I hings I had from thence; and Jirii to the 
Prior of St. ^ugufilrte I wrote a Letter full of Thanks 
for their juft Dealings, and the Offer of the 87-2 Moi- 
dores, which was undifpofed off, which I defit'd mighc 
be given, ^oo tuthe Monafterj, and 372 to the Poor, 
ai the Prior ihould direft, deliring the good Fadrcs 
Prayers for me, and the Hke■ 
I wrote next a Letter of thanks to my two Tiuflees, 
with all the Acknowledgment that rumucli Juftice and 
Honefty called tor ; as for fending them any Prefentj 
tbey werefaraboye having any Occalion of it. 

•l^fliy, I wrote to my Partner, acknowledging his Ftf 
dullry in the Improving the Plantation, and iiis integii- 
tvin encreafing the Stock of the Works, giving him In- 
«rui!tions tor his future Government of rny Part, ac- 
cording to tbe Powers I had left with my old Patron, to 
whom I defired him to fend whatever became due to 
me, 'till he Ihould hear from me more particularly ; ai- 
faring him, that it was my Intention, rot only to come 
to him, bwf to fetllemyfeif there for the Remainder of 
my Life : To this I added a. very haodfome Prelent of 
feme Hai'iart SiSks for his Wife and two Daughters, for 
ibch the Captain's Son iiiform'd me he bad ; wfth two 
Pieces ef fine EngUji) Broad-Cloatii, the heft I could get 
in Liibsn, five I'ieces of black Bays, and fume Flanders 
Lace of a good Value- 
Having (has fettled my Affairs, fold my Cargo, and 
turn'dall my Effefls into good Bills ot Exchange, my 
next EHiKcuIty wa^ whicli Way to go to England : I 
bad been accuftMi'd enough to the Sea, and yet I had a 
ftrSnge Averfiontogo to Enyjamlhy Sea at that Time j. 
and though I could give no Reafon for it, yet the Dif- 
ficulty enereas'd upon me lb much, (hat though I had 
once ihipp.'d my Baggage in order to go, yet 1 altered 
my Mind, and that not once, but two«r three times. 
It is true, I had' been very unfortunate by Sea, and 
this might be fome of the Reafons : Bat let no Man 
flight theArong Irapulfesof his own Thoughts in Ca- 
fes ot I'uch Moment : XwoorthcSbips whichi hadiin-- 
filed 



Google 



( 277 ) 



gleet out to go in, I mean, more particular!;' fingled out 
than any otiier, that is to lay, (b as in one ot them to 
■put - my Things on BoRrd, and in the other to have a- 
greed with the Captain ; I lay, two of there Ships mif- 
carry'd, w^, one was tsken by the Algerines, and the 
other was cafl away on the ^Vart near Tcrbay, and all 
the People drown'd except three _; To that in either ot" 
thole Veffels 1 had been made miferable, and in which 
moft, it was hard to lay. 

Having been thus harrafs'd in my Thoughts, my old 
Pijot, to whom 1 communicated every thing, prefs'd 
jne eameftly not to go by Sea ; hut either to go by 
Land to the Gr(.yne, and cruis over t!ie Bay of Baj'cay to 
Kochill, from whence it was but an eafy and fafe Jour- 
ney by Land to Tans, and lb to Ca'.a'u and .Dovtr ; or 
to go up to MaJrrd, and fo all the Way by Land through 

] n a Word, I was (b prepoffefs'd againil tny going hy 
Seaatall, escepifrom Calais toD-yvcr, that i reCilv'd 
to travel all the Way by Land j whieh, as I was not in. 
Hafte, and did not value the Charge, was by much the 
pleafanterWay ;and tomakeitniore lb, my old Captain 
brought an En^/ift Gentleman, the Son of a Merchant 
in Lisbon, who was willing to Travel with me ; After 
which, we pick'd up two who were Enj^Ufi} and Mer- 
chants alfo, and two yQMwgPoTtuguefe Gentleman, the laft 
going to Paris only ; fo that we were in al! (bi ol'us, and 
five Servants; the two Merchants, and the two Por(«- 
guefi contenting thenifelves with one Servant between 
two, to lave the Charge ; and as for me, I gut an Eng- 
i//t Sailor CO travel with mc as a Servant, befides my 
'MunFn^ay, who was too much a Stranger, to he capa- 
ble of fupplying the Place ofa Servant upon the Ro ad- 

In (his Manner I fet out from Zisbm : And our Com- 
pany being al! very well mount'd and ann'd, we made a 
littleTroop, whereof they did rue the Honour toeall 
me Captain, as well becaufe I \vas the oldeft Man, as 
becaule I had two Servants, and, indeed, was the Ori- 
ginal of the whole Journey. 

As I have troubled you with none of my Sea Jour- 

nali, fo I fliall trouble you now with none of my Land 

Jour^ 



Googlil 



( nS) 

Journal: But fciiie Adventures that happen'd to us in 
tills tedious and difficult Journey, I awxii not omit. 

When wecame to Maarid, we being all ofus tJtrangers 
to Spuiii, were ivilling to ftay fome Tim; to fee the 
Court of Spairt) and to lee what was worth obferving; 
but it being the latter Part ui the Summer, we haften'd 
away, and let out irom Madrid about the Middle of 
Ocleber: But when wecame to the Edge of iVauarrf, we 
were alarm'd at fcveral Towns on the Wa^, with an 
Account, that fo much Snow was fallen on the i'rencb 
Side of the Mountains, that feveral Travellers were o- 
blig'd to come back to Pa>»pei(j«ij, after having attemp- 
ted at an extreme Hazard, to pafs on. 

When we came to Fampeiuaa it iel^ we found it fo 
indeed ; and tu me that had been aUvays ufed to a hot 
Climate, and indeed to Countries where we could I'carce 
bear any Cloaths on, the Cold was unfufFerable ; nor, 
indeed, was it more painful tlian tt Was furprixing, to 
come but ten Days before out of the Old Cajlile, where 
the Weather was not only warm, but very hot ; ani 
immediately Co feel s Wind from the. Pyri«H?a« Moun- 
tains, lb very keen, fo feverely cold, as to be intollerable, 
and to endanger benumming and perliliing of our fin- 
gers and Toes was very tlrange. 

PoatFridaj was really frighted when he faw the Moun- 
tains all cover'd with Snow, and felt cold,Weath«r, which 
he had never feen or felt before in hii Life. 

To mend the Matter, after we came to V<u>i^du>ia, 
it continu'd Snowing with fo much Violence, and fo 
long, that the People laid. Winter was come before its 
Time, and the Roads, which were difficult before, were 
row quite impalTable ; in a Word, the Siiow lay in 
ibme Places too thick for us to Travel ; and being not 
hard frozen as is the Cale in Northern Countries, there 
was no going -without being in Danger ofbeing bur.j'd 
^live every Step: We ftaid no lels than twenty Uays 
it Tampelunii; when (feeing the Winter eomirg on, and 
bo li'kelyhood of its being lietcer, for it was the levereft 
Winter all over Eunpe that had been known in many 
VearsJ 1 propoled that we ihould all go away-to Fqi le- 
tabia, and there take Shipping for Beurdeaax, which 
ivas a very little Voyage. 

'^ But 



.;, Google 



( 279 ) 



But while we were confidering this, there came in 
four French Gentlemen, who having been flopped on the 
French lide o!" tha PaiTes, as we were on the Spaaijh, , had 
found out a Guide, who traverfing the Country near the 
Head of Laiigaedic, had brought them over the Mcun- 
tains by fuch Ways, that tliey were not niudi incoin- 
modedwith the Snow, and where they met%vith Snoiv 
in any Quantity, they faid it was frozen bard enough 
to bear them and ilieirHorfes. 

We lent for tills Guide, ivho told us, he would under- 
take to carry us the fame Way, with no Hazard from 
the Snow, provided we were arm'd fuflicienily to pro- 
ted usfi-om wild Beads; tor, belaid, upon thele great 
Snows, it was frequent for fome Wolves to ihow tliem- 
felves at the Fool of th« Mountains, being made raven- 
ous for want of Food, the Ground being cjvei'd with 
Snow ; We told him we were well enough prepared for 
fuch Creatures as they were, if he would erfiire us 
from a Rind of two legged Wolves, which we were told 
wewereinmoft Danger from, efpecially on the Fretv^ 
Side of the Mountains. 

He fatisfy'd us there was no D.inger ofthat Kindin 
the Way that we were to go : So we readily agreed Co 
follow him, as did alfo twelve other Gentlemen, with 
their Servants, fome French, fome Spanip,, ivlio, as I 
faid, bad attempted to go, and were oblig'd to come 
bick again. 

'Accordingly we all fei out for Pampi}und, withoitr 
Gifide, on the fifteenth of November ; and indeed, I 
was furprii'd, when inftead of going forward, became 
diredlybask with us, on the fame Road that we came 
from Madrid, above twenty Miles ; when being pifs'd 
two Rivers, and come into the plain Country, welound 
ourfclves in a warm Climate again, where tlw Country 
was pleafant, and no Snow to be feen ; but on a fudden, 
turning to the Left, he approach'd the Mountains ano- 
ther Way ; and tho' it is true, the Hills and Precipices 
look'd dreadful, yet he made fo many Tours, fwdi Meatv 
ders, andledus by fuch winding Ways, we wereinfen- 
fibly pafs'd the Height of the Mountains, without being 
much incumber'd with the Snow : and all on a fudden 
be Hiew'd US the gleafatit fruitful Provinces o£ Zangut- 
tlse 



( a8o ) 

doc and Gaficigu, all green and flourilhing ; tho' indeed 
they were at a gieat Diftance, and ws had fome rough 
'W ay to pafs yet. 

We were a little uneafy however, when we found It 
fnow'done whole Day, and ac Night, fo faft, that we 
could not travel ; but he bids as be ealy, we Ibould loon 
be part it all : We found, indeed, that we began to da- 
fcend every Day, and to come more North than before, 
and fo depending upon our Guide, we went on. 

It was about tivo Hours before Night, when our 
Guide being Ibmethin^ before us, and not jull; in Sight, 
out rufti'd three nionltrous Wolves, and afttr them a 
Bear, out ofa hollow Way, adjoining to a thick Wood'; 
two of the Wolves flfew upon the Guide, and had he 
been halfa Mile before us, he bad be;n devour'd indeed, 
before we could have helped him : One of them laften'ii 
upon his Horfe, and the other attacked the Man with 
that Violence, that he had tiot Time, or not Prelencj of 
Mind enough to draw his Piftol, but hollowed and cry'd 
out to us moll luftilj' ; my Man Friday being next to me, 
I hid him ride up, and fee what was the Matter; As 
foon as Friday came in Sight of the Man, he hollow'd as 
loud as t'other, O Mifisr! O hUfier '. But like a bold 
Fellow, rode direftly up to the poor Man, and with his 
PiSol ihot the Wolf that attacked him into the Head- 
It was happy for the poor Man, that it was my Man 
Triday ; lor he having been uled to that kind of Creacufe 
in bis Country, had no Fear upon bim ; but went clofe 
up to him, and foot him, as above ; whereas any ot" us 
would have fir'd at a farther Diftance, and have per- 
haps either mjfs'd the Wolt; or endangered Ihooting the 
Man. 

But it was enough to have tfirrifj'd a bolder Man thnn 
I, and indeed it alami'd all our Company, when with. 
iheNoifeoffr/rfa/sPiftol, we heard tn both Sides the 
iifnialleft howling of Wolves, and the Noiie redoubled 
by the Eccho of the Mountains, that it was to us as if 
there had been a prodigious Multitude of them ; and 
■perhaps indeed, there was not fuch a few, as that we hid 
noCaufc ol Apprehenfions, 

However, as Fiiday had killed this Woll^ the other, 

that had falten'd upon the Horfo lelt him inimcdiatel^» 

acd 

I Google 



( ^8« ) 

and fled, having, hsppily faften'd upon bis Head, where 
the Bofl'csofthe Bridle had ftii^k in his Teeth, fo that 
he had not done him much Hurt: The Man, indeed, 
was mott hurt ; lor the raging Creature had bit him 
twice, once on the Arm, and the other Time a little a- 
hove his Knee ■, and he was jutl as it were tumbling 
down by the Di ford er oftheHorJe, when irUay canw 
up and Ihotthe Wolf^ 

Itiseaiy to fuppofe, that at the Nuife of fr^^'sPif- 
toi, w^ all mended our Pace, and rid up as faft as the 
Wa> (which was very difficult) would give us Leave, 
to fee what was the Matter j as foon as we came cleat 
of the Trees, which blinded us before, we fsw plainly 
what had been the Cale, and how fr/<% had diiengaged 
the poor Guide ; though we did not preCently difcern 
what Kind of Creature it was he had killed. 

But never was a tight manag'd lb hardily, and in fueh 
a lurprizing Manner, as that which 'oUow'd between 
Fridaj and the Bear, which gave us all (though at iirll 
we were lUrpriz'd and afraid lbrhini>the greateil Di- 
veilion imaginable : As the Bear is a heavy, clumley 
Creature, and does not gallop as the WoU does, who is 
fwilt and light;fohe has two particular (^alities, which 
generally are the Rule of his Aiftions ; t'rjl, As to Men, 
who are not his proper Prey, I fay, not his proper Prey, 
becaufe, tho' I can't fay what exceffive hunger niight do, 
which was now their Cafe, the Ground being all eo- 
ver'd with Snow ; yet as to Men, he does not uliially 
attempt them unlels they firft attack him : On the con- 
trary , if you meet htm in theWoods.tho'if you don't med. 
die with him, he won't meddle with you ; yet then you 
mufl take care to be very civil to him, and give him the 
Road, tor he is a very nice Gentleman, he won't go a 
flep out of the Way tor a Prince ; nay, tfyou are really 
afraid, your bell way is to look another Way, and keep 
going on ; ior fonietimes, if you ftop, andftand dill 
and look ftedfaftly at him, he takes it for an Affront; 
but if youthrow or tols any thing at him, and it hits 
him, though it were hut a Bit ot Stick as big asyout 
Tinger, he takes it for an Affront, and fetsall his other 
Eufineis afide to purluie his Revenge, for he will have 
Satisfaftigti in Point of Honour^ that is his firft Q,ua- 
iitj' 

I c 



^ 1 



( 280 

The nest is, That if he he once afFronted, be will never 
leave you, Night or Day, till he has his Revenge, bur 
Co\lo\v, at a good round Rate, till he overtakes you. 

My Man Friday had delivcr'd our Guide, and when 
we came up to him, he was helping him off (rom his 
Hotie, forthe Man was both hurt and Inghted, and in- 
deed the kft more than the firft; when 'on the Aidden, 
we Tpy'd the Bear Come out of the Wood, and a vail 
monftrous one it was, the biggeft by far]that ever 1 faw ; 
We were all a little furprized when we faw hijn, but 
fl'hen Friday law him, it was eafy;Co fee Joy and Courage 
in the Fellow's Countenance: 0!0! 0! fays Friday, 
three Times pointing to him, Mafter ! Tm givt me 
te Leave, me jhakee te Handmtb him, we rnaktiynu 
gimd Zau^b. 

I was lurprii'd to fee the Fellow fo pkas'd ; ~1cu Fool 
you, fays I, be Kill eatym rip ; Eatce ms up ! Eatsi mt 
up ! fays Fridrtf, twice over again 5 Me eatee bim up i 
•Me make pu S'^d Laagh : %'u all flay h:re, t»e Jkowyou 
^ood Laugh : So i3own be fitsj and gets his Boots off iri 
3 Moment, and put on a Pair of Pumps, (as we call the 
fiat Shoes they wearj and whidi'he had in his Pocket, 
gives my other Servant his Horfe, and, with his Gun, 
eway he flew, fwift like the Wind. 

The Bear was wallcing foftly on, and ofFer'd to me3- 
dle with no Body, 'ill Mday coming pretty near, calls- 
to him, as if the Bear could underftand him, Harlye, 
hark ye, fays Friday, me jfeakee nit you : We follow'd at 
a Diftance ; for now being come down on the Gafcoi^^ 
Side of the Mountain^ we ivere enter'd a vaft ■ great 
Foreft, vrfjere the Country was plain, and pretty open, 
tho' many Treesin it Ibatter'd liere and there. 

ir/i/ar, who had, as we fay, the Heels of the Bear, 
eameupwifh liim qaiekly, and takes up a great Stone 
and throws at him, and hit him juft or the Head; but 
did hiin no mure Harm, than if he had thrown it againft 
a Wal! ; but it anfwer'd Friday's End ; for the Roguf 
was Co void of Fear, that he did it purely to make 
itie Bear follow him, and fhow us fome Laugh, as he 
call'dit. 

■ As foon as the Bear felt the Stone, and faw him, h? 

turns about, and comes after him, taking, deviiilh long 

Strides, 



( >83 ) 

Strides, anil ihuifling along at a flrarge Rate, fo as would 
put a H ode to a middling Gallop, away ram Fri^njfy 
and takes his Courfe, as it lie run towards us for Help ; 
fb we all relblv'd to lire at once upon the Bear, and de- 
liver my Man ; tho' I was angry at him heartily for 
bringing the Bear back upon us, when he was going a- 
bout his own Bufinefs anotlier Way ; and efperially I 
was angry that he had turned the Bear upon us, and 
then run away ; and I call'd out Tea D.g, faid I, is this 
yew maiing us lau^b ? Cume amay, and take Jour Horfe, 
that TTg mayjlicct the Creature J he hears me, and cries 
cut, Nnjbsa, n<ifi)(«>t,ftmdflitl, you set much J.aagh : 
And astbe nimble Creature run two Foot for the Bead's 
one, he turn'd on a fudden, on one Side of us, and fee- 
ing a great Oak-Tree, fit for his Purpole, he beckon'd 
us to follow, and doubling his Pace, he gets nimbly up 
tlie Tree, laying his Gun down upon the Ground, at 
about five or fijc Yards from the Bottomof the Tree. 

1 he Bear foon came to the Tree, and we follow'd at 
oDillance; the firft Thing he did, he ftopp'd at the 
Gun, fmeltloit, bullet it lie, and upbe fcramblesiff-- 
to the Tree, climbing like a Cat, tho' fo monftrouflj' 
heavy .- I was antaz'd at tlie Folly, as I thought it, of 
my Man, and could iiot Ibr my Lite lee any Thirg t6 
laugh at yet, till ibeing the Bear gst up the Tree, we all 
rode nearer to bim. 

When wc came to the Tree, there was Fi-'Jay got dvtt 
to the fmall of a large Limb of the Tree, and the Bear 
got about half Way to him; as foon as the Bear got out 
to that Part where the Limb of the Tree was weaker. 
Ha, la)shetous, mm you fee rm ttachee the Beir dance'^ 
fo he ialls a jumping and fhaking the Bough, at wbicli 
thfc Bear began to totter, but flood ftill, and began to 
look behind him, to fee how he fhould get back j then 
indeed we did laugb heartily : But friiiay had not done 
with him by a great deal ; when he fees him fland ftiU, 
he calls out to iiim again, as if he had fuppos'd the Bear " 
could fpcak £no/i/ili ; What, ymm come fartimr f Pray 
yoa ccme farlht'r ; fo he left jumping and fiiaking thu 
Bough ; and the Bear, juft as if he had underftood what 
he faid, did come a little farther, then he fell a-jumping 
again, and the Bear -ftopp'd again. 



Googlf 



( 284 ) 

We thought now was a good Time to knock him on 
the Head, and call=d to Friday Co fland ftill, and we 
would Jhoot the Beai- ; but he cry'd out earnelHy, O 
pray! O pray! itsfiml, me foooe by and then; he would 
have faid, by-and-by. However, to ihorten the Storj", 
Friday danc'd fo much, and the Bear ftood lb ticklilh, 
that we had laughing enough indeed, but ftill could not 
imagine what the Fellow would do ; tor firft we thought 
he depended upon ihaktng the Bear off"; and we found 
the Bear was too cunning for that too ; for he would 
not go out lar enough to be thrown down, but clings 
faft with his great broad Claws and Feet, ib that we 
could not imagine what would be the End of it, and 
where the Jefl: would be at lall. 

But Friday put us out of Doubt quicklj' ; for feeing 
the Bear cling faft to the Bough, andthat he would not 
be perfwaded to conieany faither ; if'eU, well, faid /Vi- 
day, ycuna ccme farther, me ^o, me ^o; ynu no ccme tt 
me, mi csme hy-u ; and upon this, he goes out to the 
fmalleft End of the Bough, where it would bend with 
iis Weight, and gently Jets himielf down by it, Aiding 
down the Bough, till be came near enough to jump 
down on his Feet, and away he run to his Gun, takes it 
up, and {lands ftill. 

Well, faid I to him, Fridi^, What will you do now? 
Why don't you ihoot him i" Nojhunt, lays Friday, neyet, 
trje JlKct ncm, «»e notiS-^ me flay, give you one m.re 
I.augh : And indeed fo he did, as you will fee prelent- 
ly i for when the Bear fee his Enemy gone, he eom:s 
back from the Bough where he flood ; but did it mighty 
Jeifurely, looking behind him every Step, and coming 
backward till he got into the Body of theTi-ee : Then 
with the fame hinder-End foremoft, he came down the 
Tree, grafping it with hisCkws, and moving one Foot 
at 3 Time, verv leifurely ; at this Juncture, and juH 
before he couli fet his hind-Feet upon the Ground, 
Friday Hcpp'd clofe to himj clapp'd the Muzielof his 
Tiece into his Ear, and Jhot him dead as a Stone. 

Then the Rogue turn'd about, to fee if we did not 
laugh, and when he faw we were pleas'd by our Looks, 
^he lalls a-laughing himielf very \oMi ; S^ ve kill Bear 
%» tfiy Country, fays Friday j lb you kill tliem, fays f, 
■■^ why 



, Google 



why you have no Guns; Nc, fajs !ie, as Cutt, But fnoot 
great tnutb Irng Anotv. 

T Lis was, indeed, a good Diverfion to us; but we 
were Hill in a wild Place, and ouf Guide very much 
hurt, and wliat to do we hardly knew ; the Howling 
of Wolves run much in my Head ■, and indeed, excepc 
the Noife [ once heard on the Shore ofAjrha^ of which 
I have faid Ibmething already, I never heard any thing 
that fill'd me with fo much Horror. 

Thefe things, and the Approach of Night, called us 
off, or eUe, as Friday would have had us, we Ihould 
ceitainb' have taken the Skin of this monflvoas Crea- 
ture ofi, which was worth faving ; but we had three 
Leagues to go, and our Guide hallen'd us, fo we left 
him and went forward on our Journey. 

The Ground was ftill covet'd with Snow, tho* not 
ib deep and dangerous as on the Mountains, and tlie 
ravenous Ci-eatures, as we heard afterwards. Here come 
down into the Foreft and plain Country, piefs'd by 
Hunger to leek for Food ; and had done a great deal of 
Wilchief in the Villages, where they furprii'd the Coun- 
try-People, kill'd a great many of their Sheep and 
Horfcs, and fome People too. 

We had one dangerous Place to rafs, which our 
Guide told us, if there were any more Wolves in the 
Country, we Ihould find them tliere ; and this was a 
Ciiall Plain, furrounded with Woods on every Side, 
and a long narrow Defile or feane, which ive were to 
pals Co get through the Wood, and then we ihould come 
to the Village where ive were to lodge. 

It was within half an Hour of Sun-let when we en- 
ter'd the firll Wood ; and a little after Sun-fet, when 
we came into the Plain, we met with nothing in the 
firft Wood, except that irt a httle Plain within the 
Wood, which was not above two Furlongs over, we 
faw five great Wolves crois the Road, tiiH Speed on? 
after another, as if they had been in Chale of fome 
Prey, and had it in View, they took no Notice of u^ 
and were gone, and out of our Sjghtin a ftw Moments, 

Upon -this our Guide, who by the Way 
wretched faint-hearted FcJlow, bid ua keep in 

Pcfture: 



ivas a j 

a ready \ 

'oHutc} j 

Googlj 



( =86 ) 

"" Pofture 5 for he believ'd there were more Wolves * 

Wc kept our Arms ready, and our Eyes about us, 
fciit we law no more Wolves, 'till we came thro' that 
Wood, which was near halfa League, and entec'd the 
Plain ; -as foon as we came into the Plain, we had Oc- 
cafion enough to look about us ; the firft Objeift we met 
with, was a dead Horfe ; that is to faf, a poor Horfe, 
which the Wolves had kiU'd, and at lead a Dozen of 
them at Work ; we could rot i'ay eating of him, hut 
picking of his Bones rather; tor they had eaten up all 
the Flclh belbre, 

We did not think fit to difturb them at their Feaft, 
neither did they take much Notice oi us : Friday would 
have let £y at them, but I would not luffcr him by 
any Means; for I found we were like to have more Eu- 
lincfs upon our Hands than we were aware oi'. We 
were not gone half over the Plain, but vie began to 
hear the Wolves houl in the Wood on our Lei t, in a 
frightiul Manner; and prelently alter we law about a 
hundred coming on d i reft! y towards us, all in a Body, 
and nioft oi them in a Line, as regularly as an Army 
drawn up by experienc'd Officers : I fcarce knew ia 
what Manner to receive (hem ; but found to draw our- 
selves in a clofe Line, was the only way : So we ibrm'd 
in a Moment : But that we might ijot have too much 
Interval, I order'd, that only every other Man (hould 
fire, and that the others who had not hr'd, would ftanA 
ready to give them a fecond Volley immediately, i? 
they coiitinu'd to advance upon us, and that then thofe 
■who had iir'd at firft, ftould nut pretend to load their 
Fuzees again, btit (land ready with every one a Piftol, 
fot we were all arm'd with a Fuzee, and a P.iir of Pi- 
Hols each Man ; lb we were by this Method able to fire 
fix Volleys, balfot us at a time; however, at prefent 
we had no Neceffity, for upon firing the firft Volley, 
tlie Enemy made a fnti Stop, being terrified as well 
with theNoife, as with the Fire ; four ot them being 
4hoi into the Hsad, dropp'd ; feverai othere were wound- 
ed, and went bleeding off, as we could fee by the Snow: 
I found they flopp'd, but did not immediately retreat ; 
ttbereKpon -reBiembring -that I had been told, that the 
fierceft 



.ogk 



('87 ) 

fierceft Creatures were terrify'd at tlie Voice of a Many 
I cius'd all our Company to liollow as loud as we could ; 
and I found the Notion not altogsther miftaken, for 
upon our Shout, tlisy began to retire, and turn about ; 
then 1 ordet'd a I'econd Volley to be iir'd, in their Rear, 
which put them to ilie Gallop, and away they went to 
•the Woods. 

This gave us leifurc to charge our Pieces again, and 
that we might lole no Time, we kept going; but we 
had hut little more than loaded our Fuzees, and put 
our ietvts into a Readinels, when we heard a terrible 
Nolle in the Tame Wood, on our Lett, only that it was 
farther onward the fame Way we were to go, 

The Night was coming on, and the Light began to 
be dusky, which made it the worle on our Side ; but the 
Noife encreafing, (ve could eafily perceive tiiat it was 
the hoivling and yelling of thole hellilb Creatures ; and 
on a fiiddsn, we percciv'd two or three Troops of 
Wolves, one on our lett, o;ie behind us, and one on cur 
Front; fa that we feem'd to.be fiirrounded wiihthem; 
howevei*, as they did not tail upon us, we kept our. 
Way forwaid, as fall: as we could make our Horlbs go, 
which the Way being very rough, was only a good 
large Trot ; and in this manner we came in View of 
the Entrance ot'a Wood, thro' which we were to pals, 
at the farther Side of the Plain ; but we were greatly 
furpriz'd, when coming near tlie Lane, or Pals, we law 
a oonfus'd Number of Wolves Handing jull: at tl-.e En- 
trance. 

On a fuddcn, at another openiiig of the W'ood, we 
lieard the Ncife of a "Jun ; and looking that Way, out- 
rulh'd a Horle, with a Saddle, and a Bridle on him, 
flying like the Wind, and fifteen or feventeen Wolves 
after him, lull Speed; indeed, the Horfe had the Heels 
of them ; but as we fuppos'd that he could not hold it 
at that rate, we doubted, not but they would get up 
with him at lafl, and no queftion blit they did. 
. Here vee . had a moft horrible Sight ; forridingup 
to the Entrance where the Horle came out, we found 
the Carcals of another Horfe, and of two M-en, de- 
vour'd by the rayenoua CreaiureE, and one of ihe M-en 
was 110 d(jubt ih« (kmewho we heard £re the. Gunt ftw- 
thccc 



Googi ■ 



( j88 ) 

there lay a Gan juft by Jiim fir'd off; but as to the Man, 
his Head, and the upper Partot'his Body, waseatenup. 
This fiU'd us witli Horror, and we knew not what 
Courle to take, but the Creatures refolv'd us foon; 
for they gather'd afaoufus prefently, in hopes of Prey; 
and I rerily believe there were three hundred ot them; 
It happened very much to our Advantage, that at the 
Entrance into the Wood, but a little Way Trom it, 
there lay fome large Timber Trees, which had been 
cut down the Summer before, and 1 Ibppofe, lay there 
for Carriage : I drew my little Troop in among thofe 
Trees, and placing our felves in a Line, behind one long 
Tree, I advis'd them all to Light, and keeping that 
Tree before us, for a Breaft-Work, to (land in a Tri- 
angle, or three FroiitSj cncloling our Horfcs in the 
Center. 

We did fo, and it was well we did ; for never was a 
more furious Charge than the Creatures made upon us 
in this Place ; they came on us with a growling kind of 
a Noileand mounted the Piece of Timber, (which as t 
faid, was our Break-Work, as if they were onlyrulhing 
upon their Prey ; and this tury of theirs, it feenis, was 
principally occafion'd by their feeing our Horfss behind 
us, which was the Prey they aimed at : I order'd our 
Men to fire as before, every other Man ; and they took 
their Aim fo fure, that indeed they kiU'd feveral of the 
Wolves at the firft V-olJcy ; biU there ^vas a Neceffity to 
keep a continual Firing ; tor tliey came on like Devfis, 
thole Ijehind, pufliing on tliofe before. 

When we had fir'dour fecond Volley of our Fuzees, 
we thought they flopped a little, and I hop'd they 
would have gone ofT, but it was but a Moment,- for . 
others came forward again ; fo we fir'd two Volleys of 
our Piflols, and I believe in thefe four Firings, we kil- 
led feventeen or eighteen of them, and lam'd twice as 
many ; yet they came on again. 

I was loath to fpend our laft Shot too haftily ; fo I cal. 
led my Servant, not my Man Triday, tor he was better 
einploy'd; for with the greatefi Dexterity imaginable, 
he had charg'd my Fuzee, and his own, while we were 
cngag'd, hut as I faid, I tiall'd my other Man, and giv- 
ing him a Horn ofPowder, I bad him ky a Train, all 
along 



Google 



( l89 ) 

along tliePiece of Tirtibsr, and let it be a large Train; 

he did fo, and had bm juft Tiine to get away, ivlicn the 
Wolves came up to it, and fome were got up upon it ; 
when I i'pappir^ an unchntg'i Fiiloi, elofe to the Posv- 
da, fet it oil tire ; thole that were upon the Timbet 
were fcorch'd with it, and fix or feven of them fell, or 
rather jump'd inanjOng us, with the Force and Fright 
of the fire, we difpatch'd thcfe in an Inftant, and the 
reft were lb frigljtcd with the Ligbt, which the Night, 
for it was tifiw very near dark, made more terrible, thaf 
timy, dt;«w back a little. 

. Lipoij which I order'd our laft Piftols to be fir'd off 
in one Volley, and alter that we gave a Shout ; upon 
ihi^ the Wolves turn'd Tail, and we faljy'd immediate- 
ly upon near, twenty lame Ones, who we found ftrug- 
lingonthe Ground, and fell a cutting them with our- 
Swords, which anfwer'd our Expeiiation; for the Cry- 
ing and Howling they made was better underflood hy 
their Fellows, fo that they a!] J3cd and left us. 

We-hfd, firft and laft, kill'daboulthreelcore of them; 
and had it been Day-light, we had kill'd many more : - 
The Field of Battle being thus clear'd, we made for- 
w.ard again ; few we had ftill near a League to go ; Wc 
heard-^he ravenous Creatures howl and yell in the Woods' 
as' we went, icveral times ; and fometimes we tancy'd- 
weiaw; fome ofthsm, but theSnowdazlingour Eyes, 
we .vfere not certain \ fo in about an Hour more, we 
came'io-thpTown, where we were to lodge-, which wc 
ftund in a terrible Fright ; and all in Arms ; fortt feeitis, 
that the Night before, the Wolves and fome Bears Ijad 
Iwokc ^ato that Village, and put them in a terrible 
l^rigfit i and th§y,wcte oblig'd to keep Guard Night and 
Day, but cfpecially in the Night, to preiervc their Cat- 
tlfv,a,nd iodeed dieir People. 

^Thc ■nent Mwiung our Guide was fo ill, and his 
Limbsib fwdr4 with the rankling of his two Woitnds 
that he coald go no iianher ; fo we were oblig'd to take a 
new Guide thew, and ^o to Ihlot^e, where we found a 
warm Climate, a fruitiul plealant Country and no Snow, 

no Wolves, arany Thing like them ; but when we told 
cw Story at Tbehafc, they told us it was nothing but 

Vfiwt^ras ordiflarj in tlte {rest Eoieft M (be Foot ^ 
O the 



o,,^ 



( is»o > 

tjie Mountains, efpecially when the'Snow lay oy Ithe ; 
Ground : But they en<jiiir°d much what kind of -a Guide ; 
we had gotten, that would venture to bring us that'' 
Way ill liich a ievere Seafon, and told us, it was very " 
iMueh we were not all devour 'd : When we told them 
]tow we plac'd our lelves, and the Horles in the middle, 
they blam'd us exceedingly, and told us it ivAs fit'ty to 
one but we had been all ddtroy'd ; for it was the Sight 
at" the Horlei. which mide the Wolves ib Curious, feeing 
their Prey.; and that at other Times they are' really a- 
fraid of a Gun : but they being, exceifive Hungry, and' 
raging on that Account, the Eagerners to come afthe. 
Horles had made them ■ len(ele4s of danger; and that 
if we had not by die continii'd Fire, and at laft by the 
Stratagem oi" the Train ot, Powder, mafter'd them, it 
had been giest Odds bat that we liad been torn to Pie- 
ces ; whereas had we been content to have fat ftill on - 
Horle-back, andJirod asHorlemeti, they would not have 
ta^icn the Horles to niKch for their own whenMen where 
on their Backs, as otherwife ; and witiial they told'iis, 
chat at iaft, iiwe had ftood altogether, and leit our Hor- 
its, they would have been fo'cager to have devour'd- 
them, that we might have come off life, efpecially 
having our Fire Arms is our Hands, and being fo-many 
in Number. 

Bormy Part, I was never fofefilibk ofDatigtrin my 
Life ; for feeing above three hundred Devils coitre'roar- 
ing and open- mou (bed to devour us, and hfeve nothing 
to flielter us, or retreat to, I gave my felfover for loft ; ■ 
and as it was, I believe, I fhali rever care to crofs thofe 
Ji oun tains again ; I think I would much rather go a 
thcufand Leagues by Sea, though I were furc to .'meet 
with a Storm oncea Weeic ' -. ■ ■ ■■ . i . 

1 have nothing uncommon to take Notice af, in my-' 
Paffage through France ; nothingbut what other Travejr 
fcrs have given an Account ot, with much more' Ad- 
vantage than I can ; I travell'dOom Tboulcufc to Pir/j, 
and without any confiderable Stay, came to Callis, and 
and bnded fale at Dover, the fourteenth of "^antiarj, af- 
ter'hivinghadnlevere coldSeafonto travel in. 

i was now come to the Center of- my Travels; ar^d' 

had in a liitJe Time -all tby pew difaiver'd Eftatfe ' ftfe' 

abou* 



i 191 ) 

_ about Mie„ the Bills of Eicli^nge which I brought wit^i 
'hre having l«eii very currently paid. ^ 

' ' Mj principal Guide, and' I'rivy-Counfellor, was my 
, gOQii ancient Widow, who in Gratitude for the Money 
■ 1 had fent her, thought no Pains too much, or Car-e 
^too^ great, tp employ tor me ; and [ trufted her lb entire- 
.Ij; wjih-'every Thing,, that]! was perreftly ealyas to the 
r^ccuxity of iiiy Eff.Ss; and indeed,,! was very hsppy 
from niy Beginning, and now to the End, in the unipot- 
. ted Integrity of this good Gentlewoman. 

Arid now I began to think of leaving my Efteflswi^i 
this Woman, andfetting out for XiVieH, and io to the 
_£raj/ls: Bntnovn another Scruple came tn my Way, and 
that was Religion; for as I had eiitertain'd Ibme Doubts 
ai'ouE the Raman. Religioji, even while I was abrcjd, 
jCljiedial!) "in my State ol Solitude ; fo I knsw there w»s 
■oc^ going to the Briifils for me, much lefs goiBg to fectie 
'there, unlefs I refolv'd to'embrace the Rjtnan Catho- 
liefe. Religion, without any Referve; eieept on theothsr 
hand, I refolv'd tube a Sacrifice to my Frinciples, be 
a Martyr for Religion, and die in the !nqiiilition ; /o 
I refolv'd to flay at Home, and if I could find Means 
"for it, to difpofe of my Plantation. 

To this Purpofe I wrote to my old Friend at Lisbon, 
iwho in Return gave me Notice, that he could eafily 
,dilpofeofit there: But that if I thought fit to give 
Kim L^ave to offer it in my Name to the two Merchants,, 
the Siirvivoi*sof my Truflees who Uv'd in. the Srafih, 
■vvhomufV fiilly underftand the Value of it, who liv'd 
jufl upon the Spot, and who I kneiv were very rich, 
lb that be believ'd they ivould be fond of buying it ; he 
did: not doubt, but i fhould m.nke 4 or 5000 Pieces of 
'Eight the more of it. 

Accordingly I agreed, gave him Order to offer it to 
them,, and he did fo ; and in abuut eight Months more, 
the Ship being then return'd, lie fent me an Account, 
that they had accepted the Offer, and bad remitted 
3300D Pieces of Eight, to a Correfpondent of theirs at 
Xiskn, to pay for it. 

In Return, I figned the Inflrument of Sale in the 

Form, which they, fent from J-Uhn, and fent it to my 

.old Man, who fent me Bills of Exchange for pSco 

O 2 Pieces 

' ■ " ■ .1 Google 



( -in ) 

Pieces of Eight for the Eftate ; relerviug tlie Pay- 
jnent of ICO Moidores a Year to him, thcdd Man, 
during his Life, and 50 Moidores afierwarde to his 
l»on tor liis Lite, which 1 had prcmis'd them ; and which 
the I'hntation was to make good as a Rent-Charge. 
And tlms I have given the firft Part of a Life of 
Fortune and Adventure, a Life of Providence's CheC- 
«juer-Work, and of a Variety which the World will 
feidom be able to Jhew the like of: Beginning foolilh- 
ly, liut elufiug much more happily than any i'art of It 
ever gave me Leave To much as to iiope for. 

Any one would think, that in this State of compli- 
cated good fortune, I was paft running any more Ha- 
zards ; and lb indeed I had been, if other Ciccumllance» 
Jiad concurred, but I was innured to a wandering Life, 
had no Family, nor many Relations, nor, howcter rich 
had I contraSed much Acquaintance ; and tliough ( hitd 
fold my Eftate in the Erajil!^ yet I qould not keep that 
Country out of my Head, and had a gr?at MiTid to be 
upon the Wing again, efpedaliy I could not refift ttie 
llrong Inclination I had to fee my Ifland, and to fcilow 
if the poor .fpaniards were in Being there, and how tHe 
RoRuesI left there, had ufed them.' ■ ■ ' 

My true Friend the Widow, eafocHly difwaJed me 
from it, and ■& far prevai?d with me, that for alitibll 
feven Years fhc preVented my running abi'oad-, durin^g 
which Time, I todk my two Nephews, the Children Ot' 
one oi' my Brothers, into my Care 1 The eldefl; having 
fomething of his own I bred up as a Gentleman, and 
gave him a Settlement of fomc Addition to his Eftate, 
after my Deceafe ; the other I put out to a Captain' of- 
■a Ship \ and after five- Years, finding him a ienflWft, 
bold, enterprtiing young Fellow, I put hini into a good 
•5hip, and lent him to Sea : And this young Fellow af- 
■ terwards drew mc in; as old as I was, to farther. AdVeti- 
.turesmyfclf. 

In the mean time, lin part fettled my felf here; for 
firftofalll marry'd, and that not either to my Oifad- 
vantage or Dilfatislaiftion, and had three Children, two 
Sons and one Daughter: But my Wife dying, and my 
' Nephew coming Home with good Succc& from a Voy- 
age to SpMJitf my Inclination 10 go abroad, and his f m- 
portunity, 



( 'S3 ) 



portumty, prer^ed and engag'dme to go in his Ship* 
as a private Trader to the E^-In&tt : This was in the 
Vear 1694. 

fn this Voyage I vifited my new Colony in the Ifland, 
(aw my Succeffbrs the Spaniards, had the whole Story 
of their Lives, and of the Villains 1 left there, how at 
.firft they infulted the poor Spaniards, how they after- 
wards agfeedj difagrecd, united, feparated, and how at 
laft the Spaniards were oblig'd to life Violence with 
them ; how they were fuhjected to the Spaniards \ how 
honefHy the Spaniards us'd tbem ; a Hiftory, if it were 
enter'd into, as full of Variety and wonderful Acci- 
dents, as my own Part, parttcuferly alfo as to their Bat- 
tles with the Carribeans, whO landed feveral times upon 
the Idandj and as to the Improvement they made upon 
the IJland itlelti and how fire of them made an Attempt 
upon the main Land, and brought away eleyen Men and 
five Women Prifoners, by which, at my coming, I found 
about twenty young Children on the Ifland. 

Here I ilay'd about 30 Days, lelt them Supplies of all 
neceflary Things, and particularly of Arms, Powder, 
Shot, Cloaths, Tools, and two Workmen, which I 
brought from Er^lfnd with nie, vi^. a Carpenter and a 
Smith. 

fielides this, I Jhat'd the Ifland into Parts with *em, 
referv'd to niyfelf the Property of the whole, but gave 
thedi fuch Parts, refpeftirely as they agreed on ; and 
having fettled all Things with tlieni, and engaged them 
rot to leave the Place, I left them there. 

Prom thence I touch'd at the Brafils, from ivhence I 
fent a Bark, -which I bouglit there, with more People, 
to tlie Ifland, and in it, befides other Supplies, I ient 
fcvffn Women, being fuch as I found proper for Ser- 
vice, or for Wives to (iich as would take them : As Co 
the Er^lijh Men, I promis'd them to lend them Cotas 
Women from EmUrul, with a good Cargo of Necefla- 
riesjif they would apply themfelves to Planting, which I 
afterwards could not perform : The Fellows prov'd very 
honelt and diligent, after they were maflec'd, and had 
their Properties fet apart for them. I -fent them alfo 
from the Br^th fire Cow^ tbrec of them being big 



Google 



;( :294 ;> 

with Calf, fgnie. Sheep, and fome.Hc^j, whidv when 
' I Came again, viefe confitterably encreas'^. 

But all thefe Things, With an Hccoiint~ how 300 C«- 
yiihes came and invaded Ehcnij and ruin'd their Planta- 
tions, and how they Tought with that whole Number 
twice, and were, at foil, defeated, and one of the^i 
■ liiird i but at If ft a Storm deftroying their Enemies C^- 
; noes, they famifh'd or deftroy'dalmoft all, the reft, aad 
renew'd and recoyer'd the Poftcflion oftheir Plantation, 
, ard ftill liv'd upon the Ifiahd. 

All thefe Things, with Tome very furprizing Inci- 
dents in fome new Adventures oFmy own, for ten Vears 
more, I may perhaps give a fartiier Account of here- 
after. 

F J'n I S. 



THE Life and'flrange furprifing Ad- 
ventures ofRolfifjfon Q-ufoey printed 
in a large Charader, in 2 Vol. 8ti?, a- 
doi'ned with Cuts. His ferious Reflec- 
tions on his Life and Adventures^ witii 
his Vifion of the AngeHck World ; writ- 
ten during his Solitude in thelfland, in 
8i3o. Printed for IV. Taylor, at the Ship 
and Black-Swan^ 111 FaUr-NoJler-Row. 



..Google 



S. .&.*..fi;f,^Ju«g,g.ai.,8,,kf,,t,tg,g. 

B /C 5 Pr/nr^^i /o>- W. T a y l o r 

■ -at the Ship atid Black Swan />; Pater- 
Nofter-Row. . . •' 

BISHOP Bevin^ge's SerniQns, 2 Vol. Fo!. 
— HhTbefauras TheohguusU^o'^- ^■"''•- 

His Private Thoughts, in 2 Vol- wich Cuts. 

• The fame in one Vol. 1 2ifia. without Cuts. 

His great Neceflity of Publiek Vx^ysr, and Frc- 

quetit Coininantdnj vx^-m saia^tno. 

Whiflo/;-% E-jclid %vi. '^ ' , ■ " 

. .. Aftronoiiiical Le^fu^es; tvct 

. A (I ronomical Principles, Si'c. 

. Sir lfaactfcv>ti>n\ Pi ilofopliy ^emo nitrated, %vo, 

I^ove's whole Art of Surveying, Z-Js. 

■ Jiiftihki's Phyfico-Mechanical Experiments with 
Cuts. 

Religious Philofopher, 3 Vol. with Cuts, Si^^. 
Gravcjend'% Matnematical Elements, in 2 Vol. with 
Outfe. ■■:-■•'"■■ 

■ Dr. Di'p^w'ier's Tranflation of Mderht's, Hydrofta. 
ijcke,' 8v». with Cats. 
r(GJ^oM%Biit'*ier'sTiewOui(3e, S-Jti. 'with' Cuts. . 

■■— ^HisPari'ierVDirpenratorj', Qc. %vo. 
——.His new Method of Dieting Ho rfes, 8w. 

■ General Ailarin fdk. 

■ Sacred, Geography in Six Map^. 

. jM4^Jkiirs--Chronological TaWefe, Revifei by tV.e late- 
?ifliop oflF^irfeper. ' ' '; v /,' 

■- Wbilicn'i Chronological Tables, being a Supplement 
to Mr. Marjhall. . ■ ' ■ ■_ > 1 

His I'wo Letters to the Bifliop nTLotidan- 

His Letter to the Earl of N:tliijgbam. 

His Origin of the SabsUiaa and ^baaafian 

Doftrine, Svi:. 






|. ,- SoohPrinted for W.raylot:- 

■ — Supplemsnt to the fame, withCopper-Platts, fc/. 

I ^wr's Difjienfatory, Swj. 

Hi* Phylical Diaionary, 81.0. .1 

P/ofriwi's Morals tn 1 Vol. iimn. , 

• • Advercuresofrdewafitf/, in 2 Vel, nmn- ■ • i 
The ^afiia« Nights Enter tainments com pi eat, in $ 
yoJ-_ i2mt. . . . 

WiZ/cn's iiwifc«'s Aecbmptant, i2»?o. '" J 

His Tfigon'ometry made eafy, i2Mi>. '' 

Colleaion of Divine Poems. By Mrs. Singer. i2/s.-. 
Art of Thinking, ,2»,^ ■ ' . * 
New General ^/flj, printed on a fine Elephant Pa., 
jer, adorn'dwitbCuts, f(/.' ■ 

sSx'^'^ ^"'"^^ °^- :**'^'%»*^ improved t/ Mr. 
Cambrp ofthe ExiftegceofGod, i2«w. 
. •~HisDialogU?i6tihVDcad, I3«w." 

^-- the^Sri'r^"' "^'^■^"■^^^ tawsreUti^g to 

iarore»fe"s Clcrgyjiien's Recreation^ tme 

I -^ '.Gentlemen's Recreation, Sfljt, 

_ i.AftRroi,«fc», Eeiig'a fartSer ImiiroveiieM of 
the Art Qi Gardening ; containing tiie beft Wai-rjipro- 
pagstii-gal! Sorts 01 Frsivers, Flower- TreeanjShrShi: 
H»Z r*'""?!^;,""' ?"!7>^ fc„Mea»ne. Green 
Houfa/Be. Of PUntations in Avenue,,, Wa&,WiI- 
<ierneifo, Bj „ah tBe Garfiner's Compleat KaWnier; 
or the- Art ofWanagiirg bith the Prai, harden and Ui- 
Chen Garden, every Month in the Year, BtCWI,, 
S\^-- Tj-wli* i>-.ddeda Leuer.to'^rheA,.; 
«ior, eomimng lime curious Obfervation. concerridi 
^!?E"i ^'l™- ^y<f' ■'"■"ewe, M. A. , Jieito 

~* t™ viOIden Grove, iswr. 

Wislaberty ofpropjieeyiotf, Sw, 

i ■ r—''"Ttea«fe of Repentance" 8»,. 

|(, ,. .«j. < . H.,.Mb, Google 



■"^R 



,Googje 



