
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



»*'*V^ 






ti 




V 



f.J 4/-' < 










dbyGoogk 



d by Google 



d by Google 



ADVENTURES 

P F 
EOBINSON CRUSOE. 

VOL. h 



dbyGoogk 






d by Google 



THE LIFE 

AND ADVENTURES 

F 

ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

Sr DANIEL DE FOE 



Cook's Edition. 

VOL. I. 

"EniboUishe'd with Engravings. 




M 



CH^ 



KM 






BRUSSELS, 

Primed by B. 1.E Francq, Book- seller, 
Magdalen - street, N." 40!. 



1 8 o 3. 



dbyGoogk 



d by Google 



TW/ZiTW/ff^^-mm^ y///w/yy//>f///. /^//^^>'* y///r/f'- ^^^^i 



PREFACE. 



If ever the^ftory of any private marf s ad- 
ventures in the world were worth niaking 
public , and were acceptable when publi* 
filed, the Editor of this account thinks this 
will be fo. 

The wonders of this man's life exceeded 
all that ( he thinks) is to be found extant; 
the life of one man being Icarcely capable 
of a greater ^arij§ty»- 

The ftory is told with modefly , with fe- 
rioufnefe^and wit^ a Itligious application 
of events' to the uf^s to which wife men 
always apply them /viz: to the inftruction 
of others by their example, and tojuftify 
and honour tiie wiTdom of Providence in 
all the variety of our cireumftances, let them 
irappen how they will. 

The Editor beKeves the thing to he a juft 

hiftory of fads ; neither is there any appea« 

jance of fi6lion in it: and whoever thinks. 
Vol L a 



d by Google 



ij P R E F A € E. 

becaufe all fuch things are difpatched, that 
the improyement of it, as well to the di« 
verfion as inftru£lion of the reader , will be 
the fame ; and as fuch , lie thinks, without 
farther compliment to the world, he does 
them a great fervice in the publication. 

DANIEL DE FOE. 




X 



d by Google 



LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



X was bom in the year 1632, in the city of 
York , of a good family , though not of that 
country , my father being a foreigner of J|re- 
men , who fettled firfl at Hull : he got a good 
eftate by merchandize, and leavii^ff his tra- 
de , lived afterwards at York , from whence he 
had married my mother , whofe relations were 
named Robinfon , a very good femily in that 
country, and from whom I was called Robinfon 
Kreutznaer; but by ufual corruption of words 
in England , we are now called, nay , we call 
ourfelves , and write our name Cnifoe; and Co 
my companions always called me. 

I had two elder brothers , one of whom was 
a lieutenant-colonel to an Englifh regiment of 
foot in Flanders , formerly commanded by the 
famous Colonel Lockhart , and was killed at 
the battle nearDimkirk , againft the Spaniards : 
what became of my fecond brother I never 
knew , any niore than my father or moiher 
did know what vas become of me. 
. Vol I. ' A 



d by Google 



a LtFE AND ADVENTURES 

Being the third fon of the family , and not 
bred to any trade, my head began to be filled 
very early with rambling thoughts : my father, 
who was very ancient , had given me a com- 
petent share of learning, as far as houfe-educa- 
tion and a country free-fchool generally go , 
and defigned me for the law ; but I would be 
fatisfied with nothing but going toiea : and my 
inclination to this led me fo flrongly againft 
the will , nay the commands , of my father , 
and againfl all the entreaties and perfuafions 
of my mother and other friends , that there 
feemed to be fomething fetal in that propen- 
fion of nature, tending directly to the life of 
mifery which was to befel me. 

My fether , a wife and grave man , gave me 
ferious and excellent coimfel againfl what he 
f jrefav was my defign. He called me one mor- 
ning into his chamber , where he was confined 
by the gout , and expofhilated very warmly 
with me upon this fubject; he afked me what 
teafons , more than a mere waiidering inclina- 
. tion , I had for leaving my fether's houfe and 
my native country , where I might be well 
introduced , and had a profpect of raifing my 
fortune by application and indufhy , with a 
life of eafe ^a pleafure : he told me , it was 
men of defperate fortunes on one hand , or of 
afpiring fuperior fortunes on the other , and 
who went abroad upon adventures , to rife by 
enterprize , and make themfelves femous m 
undertakings of a natu^ out of ^ common 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3 

road ; and thefe things were all either too fer 
above me , or too far below me ; that mine 
was Ae middle ftate , or what might be called 
the Upper ftation of low life, wich hehad fbund^ 
by long experience, was die beft ftate in the 
world , the moft fuited to human happinefs , 
not expoied to the miferies and hardihips , the 
labour and fufFerings of the mechanic part pf 
mankind , and not embraffed with the pride , 
luxury , ambition , and envy of the upper part 
of mankind. He told me I might judge of the 
happinefs of this ftate , by this one thing, viz» 
that this was the ftate of life which all other 
people envied ; that kings have frequently la* 
mented the miferable confequences of being 
born to great things , and wiflied they had been 
placed in the middle of the two extremes , be- 
t\veen the mean and the great *, that the wife 
man gave his teflimony to this , as the juft 
ftandard of true felicity , when he prayed to 
have neither poverty nor riches. 

He bade me obferve it , and I ftiould always 
find, that the calamities of life were fliared 
among the upp^ and lower part of mankind; 
but that the middle ftation had the feweft di- 
iafters , and was not expofed to fo many vicif- 
fitudes as the higher or lower part of man- 
kind ; nay ^ they were not fubjected to fo ma- 
ny diftempers and uneafineffes , either of body 
or miind , as thoie were, who , by vicious li- 
ving, luxury , tod extravagancies on one hand, 
•r by hard bhout , want of neceffaries , and 

A 2 



d by Google 



4 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

mean or infufficient diet , on the other hand ^ 
' bring diftempers upon themfelves by the natu- 
ral confequehces of their way of living; that 
the middle ftation of life was calculated for all 
kind of virtues , and all kind of enjoyments ; 
that Peace and Plenty were the handmaids of 
a middle fortune ; that temperance , modera- 
rton , quietnefs , health , fociety , all agreeable 
diverfions , and all defirable pleafures , were 
the bleffings attending the middle ftation of 
life ; that this way men went filently and 
fmoothly through the world , and comforta- 
bly out of it ; not embarraffed with the la- 
* bours of the hands , or of the head ; not fold 
to a life of flavery for daily bread , or harraf- 
fed with perplexed circumftances , wich rob 
the foul of peace , and the body of reft ; not 
enraged with the paflion of envy , or the fecret 
burning luft of ambition for great things ; but 
in eafy circumftances , Aiding gently dirough 
the world , and fenfibly tafting the fweets of 
living , without the bitter ; feeling that they 
are happy , and learning by every day's ex- 
perience to know it more fenfibly. 

After this , he preffed me eameftly , and in 
Ae moft affectionate manner , not to play the 
young man, or to precipitate myfelf into mi* 
feries , which nature ^ and the ftation of life I 
was bom in , feemed to have provided againft ; 
that I was under no neceflity of feeking my 
bread ; that he would do well for me , and 
endeavour to enter me fairly into the ftation 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 5 

of life which he had been juft recommending • 
to me ; and that if I was not very eafy and 
happy in the world , it muft be my mere fete 
or feult that muft hinder it ; and that he fhould 
have nothing to anfwer for , having thus dif- 
charged his outy , in wamine; me againft mea- 
fures which he knew would be to my hurt : 
in a word , diat as he would do very kind 
things for me , if I would ftay and fettle at ho- 
me , as he directed ; fo he would not have fo 
- much hand in my misfortimes , as to gave me 
any encouragement to go away ; and to clofe 
all , he told me , I had my elder brother for 
an example , to whom he had ufed the fame 
eameft perfuafions, to keep him from going 
into the Low Country wars , but could not 
prevail , his young Genres promting him to run 
into the army, where he was killed; and though, 
he faid , he would not ceafe to pray for me , 
yet he would venture to fey to me , that if I 
did take this foolifli ftep , God would not blefs 
me ; an4 1 would have leifure hereafter to re* 
fleet upon having neglected his counfel , when 
there might be none to affift in my recovery. 
I obferved in this laft part of his difcourfe , 
wich was truly prophetic , though I fuppofe 
my fether did not know it to be fo himfelf ; 
I fay I obferved the tears run down his fece 
very plentifully , efpecially when he fpoke of 
my brother who was killed ; and that when 
he fpoke of my having leifure to repent, and 
none to affift me , he was fo moved , that he 

A3 



d by Google 



6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

broke off the difcourfe, and told me his hea^ 
was fo fiill he could fay no more to me. 

I was fincerely afflicted with this difcourfe, 
as indeed who could be otherwife ; and I refol- 
ved not to think of going abroad any more , 
but to fettle at home , according to my father's 
defire : but , alas ! a few days wore it all ofF^ 
and ) in fhort , to prevent any of my father's 
ferther importunities , in a few weeks after , I 
refolved to run quite away from him. Howe- 
ver , I did not act fo haflily neither , as the 
firfl heat of my refolution prompted ; but I 
took my mother at a time when I thought her 
a little pleafanter than ordinary ; and told her , 
that my thoughts were fo entirely bent upon 
feeing the world , that I fhould never fettle to 
any thing with refolution enough to go through 
with it ; and my father had better give me his 
confent , than force me to go without it; that 
I was now eighteen years old , which was too 
late to go apprentice to a trade , or clerk to an 
attorney; that I was fure, if I did /I fhould 
never ferve out my time , but I fhould cer- 
tainly run away from my mafter before my 
time was out , and go to fea ; and if fhe would 
/peak to my father to Jet me go one voyage 
abroad, if I came home again , and did not 
like it , I would go no more , and I would pro- 
mife , by a double diligence , to recover the 
time I had lofl. 

This put my mother into a great paflion : 
(he told me , (he knew it'wouldbe'to no put- 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSQE. 7 

pofe to fpeak to my father upon any fuch fub- 
ject ; that he knew too well what was my in- 
tereft , to give his confent to any thing fo 
much for my hurt ; and that flie wondered 
how I could think of any fuch thing, after the 
difcourfe I had had with my father , and fuch 
kind and tender expreffions as fhe knew my 
father had ufed to me : and that , in fhort , if 
I would ruin myfelf , there was no help for 
me ; but I might depend I fhould never have 
their confent to it ; that , for her part , fhe 
would not have fo much hand in my deftruc- 
tion ; and I fhould never have it to fay , that 
my mother was willing , when my fether 
was not. 

Though my mother refufed to move it to 
my father , yet I heard afterwards , that fhe 
reported all die difcourfe to him : and that my 
fether , after fhewing a great concern at it , faid 
to her, with a figh — ''That boy might be 
„ happy , if he would flay at home ; but if he 
„ goes ^road , be will be the mofl miferable 
„ wretch that ever was bom ! I can give no 
„ confent to it, ** 

It was not till almofl: a year after this that' 
I broke loofe , though in the mean time I con- 
tinued obfKnately deaf to allpropofals of fett- 
ling to bufinefs , and frequently expoflulated 
with my father and mother , about their being 
fo pofitively determined againfl what they 
knew my inclinations prompted me to. But 
being one day at Hull , whither I went ca- 



d by Google 



8 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

fually , aAd without any purpdfe of making an 
elopement at that time , I fay being diere , and 
one of my companions being going by fea to 
London , in his father's (hip , and prompting 
me to go with them , with the common allu- 
rement of a feafaring man , that it fliould coft 
me nothing for my paffage ; I confulted nei- 
ther father or mother any more , nor fo much 
as fent them word of it ; but leaving them to 
hear of it as they might , without aflcing God's 
bleffing or my fether's , without any confide- 
•ration of circumftances or confequences , and 
in an ill-hour . ( God knows ) on the firft of 
September, 1 65 1 ,1 went on board a Ihip bound 
for London. Never any young adventurer's 
misfortunes , I believe , began fooner , or con- 
tinued longer , than mine : the fhip was no 
fooner got out of the Humber , but the wind 
began to blow , and the fea to rife in a mofl 
frightful manner ; and as I had never been at 
fea before , I was moft inexprefEbly fick in 
body , and terrified in mind. I began now fe- 
rioufly to reflect upon what I had done , and 
how juftly I w as overtaken by the judgment 
of Heaven , for fo my wickedly leaving my 
father^s houfe , and abandoning my duty ; all 
the good counfel of my parents , my father's 
tears , and my mother's entreaties , came now 
. frefh into my mind ; and my confcience , which 
was not yet come to the pitch of hardnefs to 
which it has been fince , reproached me with 
the contempt of advice , and the breach of my 
duty to God and my father. 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 9 

All this while the ftorm encreafed , and Ac 
(ea ran very high , though nothing like what 
I have feen many times fince ; no , nor what 
I faw a few days after ; but it was enough to 
affect me then , who was but a young failor , 
and had never known any thing of the mat- 
ter. I expected every wave would have fwal- 
lowed us up , and that every time the (hip fell 
down 5 as I thought it did , in the trough or 
hollow of the fea , we fliould never rife more. 
In this agony of mind I made many vows and 
refolutions , that if it would pleafe God to 
ipare my life in this one voyage , if ever I got 
once my foot upon dry land again ^ I would 
go directljr home to my father , and never fet 
it into a fliip again while I lived ; that I would 
take his aovice , and never run myfelf inta 
fuch miferies as thefe any more. Now I few 
plainly the goodnefs of his obfervations about 
the middle ration of life , how eafy , how com* 
fortable he had lived all his days , and never 
had been expofed to tempefts at fea , or trou- 
ble on fliore ; and , in fliort , I refolved that I * 
would , like a true repenting prodigal , go ho- 
me to my father. 

Thefe wife and fober thoughts continued 
all the w hile the ftorm lafted , and indeed fome 
time after; but the nrxt day the wind was 
abated , and the fea calmer , and I began to be 
a little iiiured to it. However , I was very 
grave for all that day , being alfo a little fea- 
fick (till J but towards night the weather cleared 



d by Google 



lo LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
up , Ae wind was quite over , and a charming 
fine evemng followed ; the fun went down per- 
fectly dear; and rofe fo the next morning , 
and having little or no wind, and a fmootl^ 
fea, flie fun Aiming upon it , the fight was , 
as I tjiought, the moft delightful I everfew. 

I had flept well in the night, and was now 
no more fea-fick , but very cheerful ; looking 
with wonder upon the fea , that was fo rough 
and terrible the day before, and could be fo 
calm 9 and fb pleafant, in fo little a timeaf* 
ter : and now ,left my good refolutions fliould 
continue, my companion , who had, indeed ^ 
enticed me away , came to me — „Well ,Bob , ** 
fays he," clapping me upon the flioulder, „ how 
„ do you do afterit ? I warrant you were frigh- 
„ ted , were not you lafl night , when it blew 
„ but a cap fiill ot wind ?**—>» A cap full d'ye 
„ call it ! faid I , it was a terrible ftorm.,, —A 
„ florm , you fool, you ! „ replies he , ^ do you 
„ call that a ftorm ? .Why , it was nothing at all. 
„ Give us but a good (hip, and fea room, and we 
„ think nothing of fuch a fquall of wind as that, 
„ but, you are but a frefli-watpr failor , Bob; 
„ come,letns make abowl of punch, and we^l 
„ forget all that. D'y^ fee what charming wea- 
„ ther't is now ?" To make fhort this fad part 
of my ftory , we went the way of all failors ; 
the punch was made , and I was made half 
drunk with it , and in that one night's wicked-» 
nefs I drowned all my repentance , all my re- 
flections on my paft conduct , and all my refo-. 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ii 

iutions for the future. In a ^vo^d , as the fea 
was returned to its fmoothnefe of furface , and 
fettled calmnefs , by the abatement of that 
ftorm , fo die hurry of my thoughts being over, 
my fears and apprehenfions of being fwal lowed 
up by the fea, being forgotten , and the cur- 
rent of my former defires returned , I entirely 
forgot the vows and promifes I made in my 
diffrefs. I foimd, indeed, fome intervals of re- 
flection , and the ferious thoughts did , as it 
were, endeavour to return again fometimes; 
but I fhook them off, and rouzed myfelf from 
them , as it were from a diftemper ; and ap- 
plying myfelf to drinking and company , foon 
mattered the return of thofe fits , { for fo I cal- 
led them ; ) and I had, in five or fix days , got 
^ complete a victory over my conscience , as 
any young fellow riiat refolved not to be trou- 
bled with it could defire: But I was to have 
another trial for it ftill ; and Providence , as 
in fuch cafes generally happens, refolved t(% 
leave me entirely without excufe ; fof if I 
would not take this for a deliverance , the 
next was to be fiich a one , as the worft and 
moft hardened wretch among us would con- 
fefs both the danger and the mercy. 

The fixdi day of our being at fea we came 
into Yarmouth roads ; the wind having been 
contrary , and the weather calm , ^ve had made 
but little way fince the ftorm. Here we were 
obliged to come to an anchor , and here we 
lay, the wind continuing contrary, viz. at 



d by Google 



12 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

S. W. for feven or eight days ; during which 
time, a great many fhips from Newcaftle came 
into the fame roads ; as the common harbour 
where the fliips might wait for a wind for the 
river, 

"We had not , however , rid here fo long but 
we fliould have tided it up the river, had not 
the wind blew too^frefh; and, after we had 
lain four or five days , blew very hard. How- 
ever , the roads being reckoned as good as an 
harbour , the anchorage good , and our ground 
tackle very ftrong , our men were unconcer- 
ned, and not in the leaft apprehenfive of dan- 
ger ; but fpent the time in reft and mirth , af- 
ter the manner of the fea ; but the eighth day 
in the morning, the wind increafed, and we 
had all hands to work to ftrike our top-mafts , 
and make every thing fnug and clofe , that 
the fhid might ride as eafy poffible. By noon 
the fea ran very high indeed , and our fliip rid 
forecaftle-in , fliipped feveral feas , and we 
thought once or twice our anchor had come 
honfie : upon which our matter ordered out the 
(beet anchor ; fo that we rode with two an- 
chors a-head , and the cables veered out to 
the tetter end. 

By this time it blew a terrible ftorm indeed; 
and now I began to fee terror and amazement 
in the feces even of the feamen themfelves. The 
mafler , though vigilant in the bufinefs of pre- 
ferving the (hip , yet as he went in and out 
of his cabin by me , I could hear him , foftly 

to 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 15 

to himfelf , fay feveral times — „Lord be mer- 
„ cifiil to us ! we fliall be all loft , we fliall be 
all undone ! ** and the like. During thefe firft 
hurries I was ftupid, lying ftill in my cabin , 
which was in the fteerage, and cannot describe 
my temper, I could ill refume the firft penitence 
which I had fo apparently trampled upon , and 
hardened myfelf againft : I thought the bitter- 
nefs of death had been jiaffed ; and that this 
would be nothing , too , like the firft. But when 
the master himfelf came by me, as I said juft 
now, and faid we ihould be all loft, I was 
dreadfully frighted. I got up out of my cabin , 
and looked out : but fuch a difmal fight I never 
faw; the /ea went mountains high , and broke 
upon us every three or four minutes. When I 
couWiookabout, I could fee nothing but dif- 
trefs round us : two fliips that rid near us , we 
found , had cut their mafts by the board , being 
deep laden ; and our men cried out , that a fhip 
which rid about a mile ahead of us was founde- 
red. Two more fliips , being driven from their 
anchors , were run out of the roads to sea , at all 
adventures , and that not with a maft ftanding. 
The light fliips fared thebeft,as not so much la- 
bouring in the sea; but two or three of them 
drove, and came close by us , running away 
with only their fprit-fail out before the wind. 
Towards the evening , the mate and boatf- 
wain begged the master of our fliip to let them 
cut away the foremaft , which he was very un- 
willing to do : but the boatfwain protefting to 
Vol. I. B 



d by Google 



14 LIFE AND ADVENTUKES 
him , that if he did not , the (hip would foundet, 
. he confented ; and when they had cut away the 
foremast , the main-maft flood so loose , and 
ihook the fliip so much, they were obliged to 
cut her away alfo , and make a clear deckw 

Any one may judge what a condition I muft 
be in at all this , who was but a young failor, 
and who had been in fuch a fright before at but 
a little. But if I can exprefs at this diftance the 
thoughts I had about me at that time , I was in 
ten-fold more horror of mind upon account of 
my former convictions; and the having retur- 
Tied from them to the refolutiwis I had wicked- 
ly taken at firft , thaii I was at death itfelf; and 
thefe , added to the terror bf the ftorm , put me 
into fuch a condition ,'ihat I can by no words 
defcfibe it.' But tfie worft was not come yet,; 
the ftorm continued with such fury , that the 
ieamen themfelves acknowledged they had ne- 
ver Teen a wx)rfe. We had a good fliip , but Ihe 
was deep laden , and waHowed in the fea , that 
the ieamen every now and then cried out ihe 
would founder. It was my advantage inone ref- 
pect, that 1 did not know v hat they meant hy 
founder , till I enquired. However, the ftorm 
was so violent , that I sa^v wrhat is not often 
feen , die master , the boatfwain . and fome o- 
thers more fenfible than the reft^ at their prayers^ 
and expecting every moment the fliip would go 
to the bottom. In the middle of the night , and 
under all the reft of our diftreffes , one of the 
men that had been down on purpofe to fee^ 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 15 

cried out we had fprung a leak ; another faid', 
there was four feet water in the hold. Then all 
hands were called to Ae pump. At diat very 
word my heart , as I thought , died within me ; 
and I fell backwards upon the fide of my bed 
where I fat 9 into the cabin* However , the men 
rouzed me , and told me i that I that was able to ' 
60 nothing before , was^aswell able to pump as 
another ; at which I fficred up ^ and went to the 
pimp , and worked very heartily. While this 
was doing, the master feeing fome light colliers , ^ 
who , notable toride out the ftorm , were obli- 
ged to slip andrun ;away to die fea , and would 
come near us , ordered to fire a gun as a fignal of 
dSftrefs. I , who knew nothing what they meant, 
»vas fo furprized, thatlthought the fhip had 
.broke, or fome dreadful thing happened; in a 
word , I was fo furprifed , that I fell down in 
^/Ux)oa. As'this was a time when every body 
Jhad hi$ own life to think of, nobody minded 
me , or what was become of me ; but another 
man ftepped up to the pump ^ and , thrufting 
me afide with his foot , let me lie , thinking I 
had beed dead ; and it was a great while before 
1 came to myfelf. 

W^ worked on , but the water increafing 
in the hold , it was apparent that the (hip would 
fbunder; and though the ftorm began to abate 
a little , yet as it was not poflible (he could 
fv^im till we might run into any port , fo the 
mafter continued firing guns for help; and a 
light fhip, who had rid it out juft a head 0I 

B a • 



d by Google 



i6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

us , ventured a boat o«t to help us. It was with 
the utmoft hazard the boat came near us ; but 
it was impoffible fur us to get on board , or for 
the boat to lie near the (hip's fide , till at laft 
the men rowing very heartily , and venturing 
their lives to fave ours , our men caft them a 
rope over the ftern with a buoy to it , and then 
veered it out a great length, which they , after 
much labour and hazard , took hold of, and we 
hauled them clofe under oiu* ftern , and got all 
into their boat. It was to no^ purpofe for them 
or us , after we were in the boat , to think , of 
reaching to their own fhip ; fo all agreed to let 
her drive , and only to pull her in towards 
Ihore as much as we could ; and our matter 
promifed them , that if the boat was ftaved 
upon fliore , he would make it good to their 
mafter ; fo partly rowing , and partly driving , 
our boat went away to the northward, floping 
towards the fliore , almoft as far as Winter- 
tonneffe. 

"We were not much more than a quarter of 
an hour out of our fliip , but we faw her fink; 
and then I underftood , for the firft time , what 
was meant by a fliip foundering in the fea. I 
muft acknowledge I had hardly eyes to look 
up , when the feamen told me flie was finking; 
for , from that moment they rather put me into 
the boat , than that I might be faid to go in , 
my heart was as it were dead within me ; partly 
with horror of mind , and the thoughts of wlsiat 
was yet before me. 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 17 

While we were in ^s condition , the men 
yet labouring at the oar to bring the boat near 
the ihore , we could fee (when our boat moun- 
ting the waves , we wereaWe to fee the fliore) 
a great many people running along the ftrand 
to affift us when we Ihould come near : but 
we made but flow way towards the fhore ; 
nor were we able to reach the ftiofe , till being 
paft the light-houfe at "Wintertoff , the fhore 
fells oflf to the weft ward towards Cromer ; and 
fo the land broke off a little the violience of 
the wind. Here,, we got in ^ and though not ' 
without much difficulty , got all iafe on ihore , 
and walked afterwards on foot to Yarmouth ; 
where , as unfortunate men ; we were ufed 
with great humanity^ as well by the magif-- 
trates of the town , who affigned ns good quar- 
ters , as by particular merchants and owners 
of fliips , and had money given us fufficient to 
carry us either to Lo&don , or back to Hull , 
as we thought fit* • 

Had I now had Ae fenfe to have gone back 
to Hull , and have gone home , I had been 
happy , dmdmy fether , an emblem of our Bkf- 
&d^aviour 's parable , had ewn killed die fef 
ted calf for me ; for , hearing tiie fhip I went 
away in , was caft away in YsMrmouA Road y 
it was a great while before he had any afTu- 
ranees that J was mk drowned. 

But my ill-fate pufhed me en now , with 
an obftinacy that nothing could refift; and 
^ugh I had feysgfcjigap^l^^ from my 



d by Google 




i8 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

reafon and my more compofed judgment, to 
go home , yet I had no power to do it ; I 
know not what to call this ; nor will I urge, 
that it is a fecret-over-ruling decree that hur- 
ries us on to be the inftruments of our own 
deftruction , even though it be before us , and 
that we pufh upon it with our eyes open. Cer- 
tainly , nothing but fome fuch decreed unavoi- 
dable mifery attending, and which it was im- 
poffible for me to efcape , could have puflied 
me forward againft the calm reafonings and 
perfuafions of my moft retired thoughts , and 
againft two fuch vifible inftructions as I had 
met with in my firft attempt. 

My comrade , who had helped to harden me 
before , and who was the matter's fon , was 
now lefs forward than I. The firft time he fpoke 
to me after we were at Yarmouth, which was 
not till two or three days , for we were Sepa- 
rated in the town to feveral quarters ; I fay , 
the firft time he faw me , it appeared his tone 
was altered; and, looking very melancholy, 
and fliaking his head , afked me how 1 did ; 
and telling his father who I was , and how I 
had come this voyage only for a trial , in or- 
der to go farther abroad ; his father turning to 
me with a very grave and concerned tone , 
„ Young man , ^ fays he , ^* you ought never 
„ to go to fea any more ; you ought to take 
„ this for a plain and vitible token , that you 
r, are not to be a feafaring man/' — „ "Why , 
„ Sir 5 "(aid I J will you go to feanomoref |^ 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 19 

— „ That is another cafe , ** faid he; ^ it is 
„ my calling , and therefore my duty ; but as 
„ you made this voyage for a trial , you fee 
,, what a tafte Heaven has given you of what 
„ you are to expect, if you perfift; perhaps 
„ all this has befallen us on your account , like 
„ Jonah in the fliipof Tarfnifli. Pray, "con« 
„ tinues he, what are you ? and on what ac- 
„ count did you go to fea ? '* Upon that I told 
him fome of my ftory ; at the end of which ^ 
he burft out with a ftrange kind of paffion. 
„ What had I done , *' fays he , „ that luch an 
„ unhappy wretch fliould come into my fhip ! 
„ I would not fet my foot in the fame fliip 
,• with thee again for a thoufand pounds.'* 
This indeed was , as I faid , an excurfion of 
his fpirits , which were yet agitaded by the 
fenfeofhis lofs, and was farther than he could 
have authority to go : however , he afterwanls 
talked very gravely to me , exhorting me to 
go back to my father , and not tempt Pro- 
vidence to my ruin ; told me I might fee a 
vifible hand of Heaven againft me : „ And 
„ young man , '' faid he , „ depend upon it , 
^ if you do not go back , wherever you go , 
„ you will meet with nothing but difafters and 
„ difappointments , till your fether's words are 
„ fulfilled upon you* '* 

"We parted foon after; for I made him little 
anfwer, and I faw him no more; v hich way 
he w ent , I know not. As for me , having fome 
money in my pocket ^ I travelled to London , 



d by Google 



20 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

by land; and there , as well as ^n the road 9 
had many ftruegles with myfelf , what courfe 
of life I fliould take , and whether I Ihoijd 
go home , or go to fea. 

As to going home , fliame oppofed the beft 
motions that offered to my thoughts,; and it 
immediately occurred to me how I fliould be 
laughed at among the neiglibours , and fliould 
be aihamed to fee , not my fether and mother 
only , but even every body eMe. From whence 
I have iince often obferved how incongruous 
and irrational the common temper of mankind 
is, efpecially of youtji, to that reafon that 
ought to guide them in fuch cafes ; viz, that 
ihey are notalhamed to fin , and yet are aflia- 
med to repent; iiotafliamed of the action , for 
which th^ ought juftly to be efteemed fools : 
but areafharaed of die. returning, which only- 
can make diem efteemed wife men, 

hi liis tftate of life , however , I /remained 
ibme itime , uncertain what meafures to take , 
and what fcourfe of life to lead. An irrefiftable 
reluctance continued to going home.; and as I 
Aaid awhile , the .remenArance of the diftrefs 
I had been in^- wore off; and as that abated , 
the little motion I had in my defii^s to return ^ 
^wore off wi& it , till at lau I quite kid afide 
the thoughts of it , and looked out for a 
iroyage. 

That evil influonoe.whicii carried rme fitft 
away froan my ferther's houfe^ whidi hurried 
ne JEDta (theWidatid ind igsfied'tioiioa of rai- 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, ai 

iing my fortune , and that impreffed thofe con- 
ceits (o forcibly upon me as to make me deaf 
to all good advice , and to the entreaties , and 
even the commands of my father ; I fay , the 
fame influence , whatever it w as , prefented 
the moft unfortunate of all enterprizes to my 
view ; and I went on board a veflel bouml 
to the coaft of Africa , or , as our failors vul- 
garly call it , a voyage to Guinea. 

It was my great misfortune , that in all thefe 
adventures I did not (hip myfelf as a failor; 
whereby , though I might indeed have worked 
a little harder than ordinary , yet , at the fame 
time , I had learned the duty and office of a 
fore-maft-man ; and in time might have qua- 
lified myfelf for a mate or lieutenant , if not 
for a mafter. But as it was always my fate to 
chufe for the worft , fo I did here ; for having 
money in my pocket , and good cl oaths on 
my back, I would always go on board in the 
habit of a gentleman ; and fo I neither had any 
bufinefs in the (hip , nor learned to do any. 

It was my lot firft of all to fall into pretty 
good company in London , which does not 
always happen to fuch loofe and unguided 
young fellows as I then was ; the devil gene- 
rally not omitting to lay fome fnare for thtm 
very early ; but it was not fo with me. I firft 
became acquainted with the mafter of a fhip 
who hnd been on the Coaft of Guinea, and 
who , having had very good fuccefs there , was 
refolved to go again : this captain^ taking a 



d by Google 



22 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

fancy to my converfation , which was not diia- 
greeable at that time, and hearing me fay I 
had a mind to fee the world, told me , if I 
would go the voyage with him , I fhould be 
his mefsmate, and his companion ; and if I could 
carry any thing with me , I fliould have all the 
advantage of it Aat the trade would admit ; 
•teid perhaps I might meet with fome encou- 
ragement. 

I embraced the offer ; and entering into a 
ftrict firiendfliip with this captain , who was aft 
honeft plain-dealing man , went the voyage 
widi him , and carried a fmall adventure wi A 
me , which , by the definterefted honefly of 
my friend the captain , I increafed very confi- 
derably ; for I carried about 40/. in fuch toys 
and tri6es as the captain directed me to buy. 
This 40/. Ihad muftered together , by the aflif- 
tance of fome of my relatione whom Icton'ef- 
ponded with , and who , I believe, got my 
father , or at leaft my mother , to contribute 
fo much as that to my firft adventure. 

This was the only voyage which I may fay 
was {iiccefsful in all my adventures , and whidi 
I owe to rfie integrity and honefty of my friend 
the captain; under whom I got a competent 
knowledge of the tnathematics , and the rules 
of navigation : learned ho w to keep an accoimt 
of the mip's^ourfe , take an obfervation , and , 
in {hort , to underftand fome things that were 
needful to be underftood by a failor : for , as 
h^ took delight to introduce me, I took delight 



d by Google 







Digitized by VjjOOQIC 



d by Google 



OF ROmNSON CRUSOE. 23 
' to learn : and , in a word , this voyage made 
me bodi a failor and a merchant ; for I brought 
home five hundred poimds nine ounces of gold- 
duft for my adventure , which yielded me in 
London , at my return , almoft 300/. and this 
filled me with thofe a4>iring thoughts which 
liave fince fo compleated my ruin. 

Yet , even in this voyage , I had misfi^rtu- 
nes too ; particularly , that I was continually 
• iick , being thrown into a violent calenture by 
' the exceffive heat of the climate ; our princi- 
pal trading being upon the coaft , from the lat. 
of 1 5 deg. N. even to the line itfelf. 

I was now kt up for a Guinea trader ; and 
my friend , to my great misfortune , cfying foon 
- after his arrival , I refolved to go the fame 
voyage again ; and I embarked in the fame 
^^^effel with one who was his mate in the for- 
mer voyage , and had now got the command 
of the ihip. This was the unhappieft voyage 
that ever man made ; for though I did not 
carry quite 100/. of my new -gained wealth, 
fo that I had 200/, left , and w hich 1 lodged 
with my friend's widow , who was very juft 
to tne, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes in 
this voyage ; and the firft was this ; viz. our 
ihip making her courfe towards the Canary 
Iflands and the African ihore, was furprized 
in the grey of the morning by a Moorifh ro- 
ver of Sallee , who gave chace to us with all 
the fail flie could make. We crouded alfo as 
much canvas as our yards would fpread , ot 



d by Google 



H LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

our mafts carry , to have got clear ; but fin- 
ding the pirate gained upon us , and would cer- 
tainly come up with us in a few hours, we 
prepared to f^ht ; our ftiip having twelve 
guns , and the rover eighteen. About three in 
the afternoon he came up with us , and , brin- 
ging to , by miftake , juft athwart our quar- 
ter , inftead of athwart our ftern , as he in- 
tended, we brought eight of our guns to bear 
on that fide \ ana poured in a broadfide upon 
him , which made him flieer off again , after 
returning our fire , and pouring in alfo his fmall 
fhot from near 200 men ^vhich he had on board. 
However, we had not a man touched , air our 
men keeping clofe. He prepared to attack us 
again , and we to defend ourfelves ; but laying 
us on board the next time upon our other quar- 
ter , he entered ninety men upon our decks , 
who immediately fell to cutting and hacking 
the decks and rigging. "We plied them with 
finall-fliot , half-pikes , powder-chefts , and 
iuch like , and cleared our deck of them twi- 
ce. However , to cut ftiort this melancholy part 
of our ftory , our fliip being difabled , and 
three of our men killed , and eight wounded , 
Mre were obliged to yield ; and were carried 
all prifoners into Sallee, a port belonging to 
the Moors. 

The ufage I had there was not fo dreadful 
as at firft I apprehended ; nor was I carried up 
the country , to the emperor's court , as the 
reft of bur men were, but was kept by the 

captain 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 25 

captain of the rover , as his proper prize , and 
made his (lave , being young and nimble , and 
fit for his bufinefs. At this surprifing change of 
my circumftances , from a merchant to a mife- 
rable flave,I was perfectly overwhelmed; and 
now I looked back upon my father's prophetic 
discourfe to me , that I fhould be miserable , 
and have none to relieve me; which I thought 
was now so effectually brought to pafs , that I 
could not be worfe ; that now the hand of Hea- 
ven had overtaken me , and I was undone 
without redemption. But, alas ! this was but a 
taste of the mifery I was to go through , as will 
appear in the fequel of this flory. 

Asmy new patron or master had taken me 
home to his houfe , fo I was in hopes , that he 
would take me with him when he went to fea 
again , believing that it would be some time or 
other his fate to be taken by aSpanifhor Por- 
tugal man of war ; and that then I fhould be set 
at liberty. But this hope of mine was soon ta- 
ken away : for when he went to fea , he left me 
on fhore to look after his little garden , and do 
the drudgery of flaves about his houfe ; and 
when he came home again from his cruize , he 
ordered me to lie in the cabin, to look after 
the fhip. 

Here I meditated nothing but my escape , 
and what method I might take to effect it ; but 
found no way that had the leafl probability in 
it : nothing prefented to make the suppofition 
of it rational ; for I had nobody to communi- 

VoL I. C 



d by Google 



a6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

cate it to , that would embark with me ; no fel-- 
low-flave,no Englifhman, Irifliman or Scotch- 
man there , but myfelf ; fo that for two years , 
though I often pleafed myfelf with the imagi- 
nation , yet I never had the leaft encouraging 
profpect of putting it in practice. 

After about two years , an odd circumftance 
prefented itfelf , vhich put the old thoughts of 
making fome attempt for my liberty again in 
my head ; my patron lying at home longer 
than ulual , without fitting out his fliip , which , 
as I heard , was for want of money , he used 
conftantly , once or twice a week , fometimesf 
t)ftener ^ if the weather was fkir , to take the; 
Ihip's pinnace 5 and gooutinto the roadafiflling; 
and as he always took me and a young Mores-^ 
CO with him to row the boat, we made him 
very merry , and I proved very dexterous m 
catching fifli ; infomuch, that fometimes he 
wx)uld fend me with a Moor , one of kis kins^ 
men , and the youth the Mbrefco , as they cal-^ 
led him , to catch a difii of fifh for him. 

It happened one time, that going a fifliing 
with him in a calm morning , a fog rofe fo 
thick , that though we were not halt a league 
from the fliore, we. loft fight of it; and , ro- 
wing we knew not whither , or which way , 
we laboured all day , and all the next night ; 
and when the morning came , we found we 
had pulled off to fea , inftead of pulling in for 
the fliore , and that we were at leaft t\\ o lea- 
gues from the land; however, we got well in 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 27 

^in^^thoi^h with a great deal of labour.^ 
xand fome dai^er^ £01 the wind began to blow 
^pretty irefh in the morning; but , particularly 
we were all very hungry. 

But our patron , warned by this difafter ,-»- 
folved to take more care €>f him&lf for the fu- 
ture ; and having lying by him the long-boat 
of our Englifh iOiip ^^ hich he had taken , he 
r^folved he would not go a fiihing any moce 
without a compais and fome proviiion ; fo he 
ordered the carpenter of his fhip , who was 
^Ifo an Engliih Have, to build a little ftate>- 
/Toom or cabin in the middle of the long-boat , 
like that of a barge , with a place to rand be-- 
hind it to fteer , and haul home the main flieet; 
rand room before for an hand pr two to ftand 
and woric the fails. She failed with what we 
call a (houlder-of^tutton faiU wid the boom 
fibbed over -the top of the ccd>in9 whii^h lay 
«veiy fnug and low , and had in it room for 
ium to lie 9 with a (lave or two , and a table 
to eat on , with fome fmall lockers to put in 
XomQ bottles of fuch liquor as he thought fit to 
drink ; particularly his bread , rice , and co0ee» 
Wq went frequently out with this boat a 
fifhing; and as I vas moft dexterous to catch 
fifti for him , he never went without me. It 
.happened one day y that he had appointed ta 
tgo out in this boat , either for pleafure or for 
fifli , with two or three Nfoors of fome dis- 
tinction 5 and for whom he had provided ex- 
;tmordinarily ; and had therefore fent on board 

C 2 



d by Google 



a8 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

the boat over night a larger ftore of provifions 
than ufual ; and had ordered me to get ready 
three fiifils with powder and (hot , which were 
on board his fhip ; for that they defigned fome 
{port of fowling, as well as fifliing. 

I got all things ready, as he had directed; 
and waited the next morning with the boat 
waflied clean , her ancient and pendants on , 
and every thing to accommodate his guefts , 
when by and by my patron came on board 
alone , and told me his guefts had put ofFgoing, 
upon fome bufinefs that fell out ; and orde- 
red me , with the man and boy , as ufual , to 
go out with the boat , and catch them fome 
fifli, for that his friends were to fup at his 
houfe ; he commanded me too , that as foon 
as I had got fome fifli , I (hould bringt it home 
to his houfe ; all which I prepared to do. 

This moment my former notions of deli- 
verance darted into my thoughts ; for now I 
found I was likely to have a little (hip at my 
command ; and my matter being gone , I pre- 
pared to fumifti myfelf , not for fiftiing bufi- 
nefs , but for a voyage ; though I knew not , 
neither did I fo much as connder , whither I 
would fteer ; for any where to get out of that 
place was my way. 

My firft contrivance was to make a pre- 
tence to fpeak to this Moor , to get fomething 
for our fubfiftence on board ; for I told him 
we muft not prefume to eat of our patron's 
bread ; he (aid ^ that was true ; ib he brou|bt 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 29 

a large bafleet of niflc , or bifcuit of their kind , 
and three jars with frefli water , into the boat ; 
I knew where my patron's cafe of bottles ftood, 
which it was evident by the make , were ta- 
ken out of fome Englifli prize , and I conveyed 
them imo the boat, while the Moor was on 
Jhore^ as if they had been there before for our 
mafter : I conveyed alfo a great lump of bees- 
wax into the boat , which weighed about half 
an hundred weight , with a parcel of twine or 
diread , an hatched ^ a faw , and an hammer , 
all which were of great ufe to us afterwards , 
especially the wax to make candles. Another 
tnck I tried upon him , which he innocently 
came into alfo ^ his name was Ifmael , whom 
they call Muley , or Moloy ; fo 1 called to him. 
„ Moloy ^ " faid I , *' our patron's gims are 
^, all on board the boat : can you not get a 
^ little powder and fliot ? It may be we may 
^, kill fome aleamies (a fowl like our curlews) 
w for ourfelves ; for I know he keeps the gim- 
„ ner's ftores in the fliip." — „ Yes , ** fays he , 
„ ril bring fome. ** Accordingly , he brought 
a great leather pouch, which held about a 
pound and a half of powder , or rather more ; 
and another with ihot , that had five or fix 
pounds , with fome bullets , and put all into 
the boat : at the fame time I had found fom^ 
powder of my mafter's , in the great cabin, 
with which I filled one of the large bottles m 
the cafe , which was almoft empty ; pouring 
what was in it into anatber ^and thus fumiihed 

C3 



d by Google 



30 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

with every thing needful , we failed out of the 
port to fifh. The caftle, which was at the en- 
trance of the port , knew who we were , and 
took no notice of us ; and we were not above 
a mile out of the port , before we hauled in 
our iail , and fat us down to fifli. TTie wind 
blew from the N. N. E. which was contrary 
to my defire ; for had it blown foutherly , I 
had been fure to have made the coaft of Spain , 
and at leaft reached to the Bay of Cadiz ; but 
ray refolutions were , blow which way it 
would , I would be gone from that horrid place . 
where I was , and leave the reft to fete. 

After we had fiflied fome time , and catched 
nothing , ( for when I had fifli on my hook , 
I would not pull them up , that he might not 
fee them ) I faid to the Moor — ** This will not 
„ do ; our matter will not be thus ferved; we 
,, muft ftand ferther off. " He , thinking no 
harm j agreed ; and being in the head of the 
toat , fet the fails ; and as I had die helm , I ran 
the boat out near a league ferther , and then 
brought her to , as if I would fifli ; when , gi- 
ving the boy the helm , I ftepped forward to 
where the Moor was ; and , making as if I ftoo- 
ped for fomething behind him , I took him by 
furprize with my arm under his twift , and tof- 
fed him clear over-board into the fea : he rofe 
immediately , for he swam like a cork , and 
called to me , begging to be taken in , and told 
me he would go all over the world with me : 
hefvvaffi &> firong a|ter th^ boat^ that be would 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 31 

have reached me very quickly , there being but 
little wind : upon w hich I ftepped into the ca- 
bin 5 and fetching one of the fowling-pieces , 
1 prefented it at hitn , and told him , I had done 
him no hurt , and , if he would be quiet, I would 
tb him none : ** But , ^ faid I , ,, you fwim well 
„ enough to reach the fhore , and the fea is 
^ cahn : niake the beft of your way to the 
„ fliore , and I will do you no harm : but if 
y, you come near the boat, I will (hoot you 
,, through the head : for I am refolved to have 
„ my liberty. ** So he turned himfelf about,and 
fwam for the (hore : and I make no doubt but 
he reached it widi eafe , for he was an excel- 
lent fwimmer- 

I could have been content to have taken thi^ 
Moor with me , and have drowned the boy ; 
but there was no venturing to truft him : when 
he was gone , I turned to the boy , whom they 
called Xury , and faid to him — *' Xury , if you 
„ will be faithful to me , I will make you a 
„ great man ; but if you will not ftroke your 
„ fece to be true to me , that is , fwear by Ma- 
,, homet and his father's beard , I muft throw 
„ you into the fea too. ** The boy finiled in 
my face , and fpoke fo innocently , diat I could 
notmiftruft hrm ; and fwore to be faithful to 
tne , and go all over the world with me. 

While I was in the view of the Moor that 
^as fwimming , I flood out directly to iea ^ 
•with the boat rather ftretching to windward , 
diat ^ey mi^ht thmk me jone towards the 



d by Google 



3!i LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
^Streights Mouth, (as indeed any one that had 
been in their wits muft have been fuppofed to 
do : ) for who would have fuppofed we were 
iailed on to the fbuthward, to the truly Bar- 
4>arian coaft, where whok nations of Negroos 
-were lure to furround us with their canoes ^ 
and deftroy us ; where we could never once 
go on (hore^ but we fliould he devoured by 
fiivage beads , or more mercilefs favages of 
human kind. 

But as foon as it grew du{k in the evening 
I changed my courfe , and fleered directly S. 
and by E. iendingmy CQurfe a little towards 
ihe E. that I might keep in with the fliore : 
and having a fair frefh gale of wind , and a 
.finooth quiet Tea , I made £ich {ail , that I be- 
lieve by the xuext day at three o'clock in the at 
temoon, \vhen I firft n:iade die land , I could 
not be lefs than 130 miles fouth of Sallee ^ quite 
beyond the-Emperjor of Morocco's dominions^ 
CT indeed of any other king thereabouts , for 
-we faw no people. 

Yet fuch was the.fri^t I had taken at the 
Moors , and^the dreaful apprehenfions I had of 
felling into their hands, diatl would not flop 
or go on ftiore ,^ or come to an anchor, (the 
wind continuing feir ) till I bad failed in that 
manner five days ; am then the wind fhifting 
tothefouthvvard, I concluded alfo , that if any 
of our veflels were in chafe of me , they alfo 
would now give over v fo 1 ventured to make 
fo tb^ ^fMSt I and came tp aa anchor ia tho 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 33 

mouth of a little river. I knew not what or 
where ; neithef what latitude , what coimtry , 
what nation , or what river ; I neither faw , or 
defired to fee , any people ; the principal thing 
I wanted was frelh water. "We came into this 
creek in the evening , refolving to fwim on 
fliore as foon as it was dark , and difcover the 
country ; but as foon as it was quite dark , we 
heard fuch dreadful noifes of the barking , roar- 
ing , and howling of wild creatures , of we 
knew not what kinds , that the poor boy was 
ready to die with fear , and begged of me not 
to go on fliore till day. " Well /Xury , ** faid 
I , " then I won't ; but it may be we may fee 
„ men by day , who will be as bad to us as 
„ thofe lions.** — *' Then we may give them 
9, the flioot gun , ** fays Xury , laughing , make 
,, them run way ; ** fuch Ejiglifli Xury fpokc 
by converfing among us flaves. However , I 
was glad to fee the boy fo chearful , and I 
gave him a dram out of our patron's cafe of 
bottles , to chear him up : after all , Xury 's ad- 
vice was good 5 and I took it ; we dropped our 
little anchor , and lay ftill all night; I fay, 
lay ftill, for we flept none : for in two or three 
hours we faw vaft great creatures , we knew 
not what to call them , of many forts , come 
M> theiea (hore , and run into the water , wal- 
lowifi^ and wafliing themfelves , for the plea- 
sure of cooling themfelves ; and they made fuch 
hideous bowlings andyellings , that I nev^r in- 
deed heard the 'like* 



d by Google 



^ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

Xury was dreadfully frighted , and indeed €(> 
vwis I ^oo : but we were both worfe frighted 
^hen we heard one mighty Ncreature come 
/wimming towards our boat ; we could not Ce^ 
him , but we might hear him by his blowings 
ito be a monftrous , huge , and iujious beaft. 
Xury /aid it was a lion, and it -might be for 
♦ught I know : .poor Xury cried out to me to 
Jfcve^h the anchor ^and row away^ ** No., ''iayp 
i f *'Xury , we can flip our cable with a buey 
^ to it^ and go to [fea: they cannot follow 
.„ us far.** I had no fooner (aid fo,.but I per- 
ceived the creature ( wbatever it was ) within 
.two oars length , which fomething furprifed 
ine; ho vever,, 1 immediately ftepped to the 
rcabiti door , .and ticking up my gpun fired at 
«bim; upon which he immediately ^turned about^ 
^and :f\vam towards the flioreiigain- 

But it wasjaot poflible to defcribe tfeelior** 
lid npifes, and hideous ciies and hawlin|;s, 
that were raifed , as well upon the edge of the 
ihor£ ,9$ hi^er within the countty ^ upon the 
noife^r feport of a gun , a thing I have fome 
reafon ito believe t^ofe creatures had never 
beard befoi^. This t>onvinc€d me , that itbeoe 
was no going onihare for us in the night upon 
•that coidH ; and rhow to venture on ihore in 
Ae day was another queftion too; for, to 
liave fallen into the hamkof any of the rava- 
ges had been as bad as to have &ll^i into the 
paws K)f lions and ty gefs ; at leaft , we vrene 
equally apprehenlive of the danger jof it* 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3^ 

Be thax as it would , we were obliged to 
go on (horre^ fomewhere or other for water , 
for we had not a pint left in die boat ; when 
or where to get to it was the point : Xury faid , 
if I would let him go onfliore widi one of the 
jars, he would iina if there was any water , 
and bring fome to me. I aKked him , why he 
would go; why I fliould not go , and he ftay 
in the boat. The boy anfwered with fo much 
afSsction , that he made me love him ever af- 
ter : fays he , *' If wild mans come , they eat 
^ me, you go away, —"Well , Xury , * 
^ (aid I V we will both go , and if the wild 
„ mans come , we will kill them ; they fliall 
94 eat neither of us.** So I gave Xury a piece 
of ruik^-bread to eat, smd a dram out of our 
patron's cafe of bottles , whkh I motioned 
before , and we hauled die teat in as near fhore 
as we thought was proper , and waded on 
fhore^ carrying nodiinglnit our arms and two 
jkrs^ for water. 

I did not care to go out of fight of the boat , 
fearing the coming of the canoes with favs^es 
down the river : but the boy feeing a low pla-» 
ce , about a mile up the country , rambled to 
it , aiid by and by I faw him come running 
towards me : I thought he waspurfued by fome 
fiivage , or frighted with fome wild beaft , and 
I ran forward , towards him , to help him : 
but when 1 came nearer to him , I faw fome- 
tiling heHiging over his (boulders , which was 
a creature that he had {hot, tike a hare, but 



d by Google 



36 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

difFerent in colour , and longer legs ; ho vever ,' 
we were very glad of it , and it v\as very good 
meat ; but the great joy that poor Xury came 
with , was to tell me ire had found good wa- 
ter, and feen no wild mans. 

But we found after watds , that we need not 
take fuch pains for water ; for a little higher 
up the creek where we were , we found the 
water frefli when the tide was out , which 
flows but a little ^vay up; fo we filled our 
jars , and feafted on the hare we had killed , 
and prepared to go on our way , having feen 
no footfteps of any hiunan creature in that 
part of the country. 

As I had been one voyage to this coaft be- 
fore y I knew very well , that the iflands of 
the Canaries ^ and the Cape de Verd iflands 
alfo , lay not far off from the coafl: : but as 
I had no inftruments to take an obfervation , 
to know what latitude we were in , and did 
not exactly know , or at leaft remember, what 
latitude they were in , I knew not where to 
look for them , or when to ftand off to fea 
towards them , otherwife I might no\v eafily 
have found fome of thefe iflands. But my hope 
was , that if I flood along this coaft till I came 
to that part where the Englifli traded , I fliould 
find fome of their veflels upon their ufual de- 
fign of trade , that would relieve and take us in. 

By the beft of my calculation, the place 
where I now was muft be that country , which , 
lying between the Emperor of Morocco's do- 
minions 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 37 

minions and the Negroes , lies wafte and unin- 
habited , except by wild beafts ; the negroes 
having abandoned it , and gone farther fouth 
for fear of the Moors; and the Moors not think- 
ing it worth inhabiting , by reafon of its bar- 
rennefs ; and , indeed , both forfaking it , be- 
caufe of the prodigious numj^er of tygers , lions, 
leopards, and other furious creatures which 
harbour there ; fo that the Moors ufe it for their • 
hunting only, where they go like an army, two 
or three thoufand men at a time : and, indeed , 
for near an hundred ipiles together upon this 
coafl, we fa[w nothing but a wafle uninhabi- 
ted country by day , and heard nothing but 
howlings and roarings of wildbeafls by night. 

Once or twice , in the day time , I thought 
I faw the, Pico of TenerifFe , being the high top 
of the mountain TenerifFe, in the Canaries ; 
and had a great mind to venture out , in ho- 
pes of reaching thither ; but having tried twi- 
ce , I was forced in again by contrary winds , 
the fea alfo going tod high for my little veffel ; 
fo I refolved to purfue my firfl defign , and keep 
along the fhore. 

Several times we were obliged to land for 
frefh- water, after we had left this place; and 
once in particular , being early in the morning , 
we came to an anchor under a little point of 
land , which was pretty high ; and the tide be- 
ginning to flow , we lay flill to go farther in* 
Xury , w hofe eyes were more about him than 
it f^ems mine were , calls foftly to-me , and 



d by Google 



gS LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

tells me , that w« had beft go farther ofF the 
fliore; "For, " fays he, **look; yonder lies 
.^ a dreadful monfter on the fide of that hil- 
^ lock y feft afleep. ^ I looked where he poin- 
>led f and ikw a dreadful monfter indeed ! for 
it wa^ a terrible great lion , that lay .on the fide 
of the fhore , under the ihade of a piece of the 
hill , that hiing as it were a little >oyer him. 
„ Xury , " faid I , *' you fhall go on fliore^tmd 
9, kill him." Xury looked frighted , and faid 

*' Me kill ! he eat me atone ^moudi ; "one 

mouthful , he meant : however , I (aid no more 
to the boy , but bade him beilill , and took 
our biggeu gim , which was almofl mufquet 
bore, and loaded it wrth a good charge of pow- 
der , and with two Hugs , and laid it down ^ 
then I loaded another gim with two ibuUets , 
and the third (for wehadAreepieces^) I loa- 
ded with five fmaller bullets. I took the beft 
aim I could with the firft piece to have (hot 
him in the head ; but he lay lb with his leg 
raifed a little above iiis nofe , that the Aug 
hit his leg about the knee, and broke the bone. 
He ftarted up , growling at firfl ; but findii^ 
his leg broke , fell down again , and then got 
upon three legs , and gave the raoft hideous 
roar I ever heard. I was a little furprifed that 
I had not hit him on the head ; however , I 
took up the fecond piece immediately , and , 
though he began to move off, fired again, 
and (hot him in the head , and had the plea- 
fure to fee him drop ; and ^ making but little 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRJUSOE. SSf 

nojfe , he lay ftruggling foi^ life. Then Xurj^ 
took heart, dxai would have me let him go on 
fliore. ** Well, go,** feid I. So the boy jum- 
ped into the water, and taking the little gun 
in one hand , iWam to the ftiore \vith the odier 
hand ; and coming dofe to the creature , put^ 
Ae muzzle of the piece to his ear , and fhot*^ 
him in the beada^n, which diTpatched him^ 
quite. 

This was game ind^ to u5 , Init' this was 
no food ; and I was very forry to lofe three 
charges of po' vder and (hot upon a creature 
that was good for nothing to us. However , 
Xury faid , he would have fome of him ; fo' 
lie comes on board , and afked me to give him 
the hatchet. *^ For what , Xury ? "" faid I. <• Me 
„ cut off his head , ^ faid he. Ho^vever , Xury 
could nor cut off his head ; but he cut off a 
hcty and te'ou^ it wi^him and it was a^ 
nK>nftrcnis great erne. 

I bethought myfelf ^ however , Aat perhaps? 
Ae skin of him might , one way or other , be 
of /bme value to us , an I refolved to takie off 
hks {kin if I could. So Xury smd 1 went to 
work with him ; but Xury was much the bet- - 
ter workman at it , for I knew very ill how 
to do it. Indeed , it took us ( b6th ) the whole 
day ; but at laft we got off the hWe of him ^ 
and fpreading it on t& top of our cabin , thfc' 
fan effectually dried it in two dstys time , and 
jft afterwards ferved me to lie upon. 

After tins ftop , we mack on to the fouth* 

D 2 



d by Google 



40 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ward continually for ten or twelve days , living 
very fparingly on our provifions , which be- 
gan to abate very much ; and going no ofte- 
ner into the fhore than we were obliged to 
for frefh water. My defign in this was , to make 
the river Gambia or Senegal , that is to fay , 
any where about the Cape de Verd , where I 
was in hopes to meet with fome European fhip; 
and if I did not , I knew not what courfe I had 
to take , but to feek for the iflands , or perifli 
there among the negroes. I knew that all the 
fliips from Europe , which f^led either to the 
coafl: of Guinea , or to Brazil , or to the Eaft- 
Indies , made this cape , or thofe iflands ; and y 
in a word , I put the whole of my fortune upon 
this iingle point , either that I muft meet with 
fome Ihip , or muft perifli. 

"When I had purfued this refolution about 
ten days longer , as I faid , I began to fee that 
the land was inhabited , and in two or three 
places , as we failed by , we faw people ftand 
upon the fliore to look at us : we could alfo 
perceive they were quite black , and ftarkna- 
ked. I ^vas once inclined to have gone on fliore 
to them ; but Xury was my better counfellor , 
and faid to me — "No go , no go ! *' However , 
I bawled in nearer the fliore , that I might talk 
to them , and I found they ran along the fliore 
by me a good way. I obferved they had no 
weapons in their hands , except one , who had 
a long flender ftick, which Xury faid was a 
lance , and that they woidd throw them a great 



d by Google 



OF ftOFlNSON CRUSOE. 41^ 

way wkh good aim ; fo I kept at a diftance , ; 
but talked wkh them by figns as well as T' 
could , and partkularly made figns for fome- 
thing to eat# They beckoned tome to flop my 
boat, and they would fetch me fbme meat. 
Upon this I lo\Vered die top of my fail , and 
lay by ; and tvo of them ran up into the coun- 
try , and in lefs thali half cm ho^ came back , 
and brought with them two pieces of dry flefli , 
dud foim corn , fiich a^ is the produce of their 
county : but we neither knew wbAt die one 
or the other was ; however^ wd w^re willing : 
to accept it. Bu!t how to come at it wa^ 0\xt 
nex* di^pme; for I was n<yt for venturing on 
fliore to theHl , and they were jcs^ much afraid 
of us : but they tbokaftfewapp^ for m ail , for 
they brought it to theflidre ^and laid it down , 
ana went and flood a>gmat way off, till we 
£crtched it on board ^ and ihea canane clofe to 
us agatinb 

We mafcie figfts of dianks to them , for we 
had nOthi!ng t«rmake tJiem sanendk : but an op- 
portunity offered that very iitflafif to oblige 
them wonderfully ; f<>r while we wei^ lying 
By the fliore , came two mighty creattireu , oiie 
purfbing the other ( as we took it ) with gl^eat 
fiii^y , fipom the movHitains towards t^e fea : 
whether it was the male purfuing tte female , 
or whethef they were in fport or in rajg^, we 
couidnot tell ^ any mor^ thatt we could tell 
whedier it was ufiial or firange; but I believe 
in was ^e latter > bciiaofe y in tl^firA place , 

D 3 



d by Google 



42 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
thofe ravenous creatures feldom appear but in 
the night ; and , in the fecond place , we found 
the people terribly frighted , efpecially the wo- 
men. The man that had the lance or dart, did 
not fly from them , but the reft did ; however , 
as the two creatures ran directly into the wa- 
ter , they did not feem to offer to fall upon the 
negroes , but plunged themfelves into the (ea , 
and fwam about as if they had come for their 
diverfion : at laft one of them began to come 
nearer our boat than at firft I expected ; but I 
lay ready for him ; for I had loaded my gun 
with all poffible expedition, and bid Xury load 
both the others'. As foon as he came fairly 
within my reach , I fired and (hot him directly 
in the head : immediately he funk down into 
the water , but rofe inftantly , and plunged up 
and down as if he was ftruggling for lite : and 
fo indeed he was. He immediately made to 
the fhore ; but between the wound , which was 
his mortal hurt , and the flrangling of the wa- 
ter , he died juft before he reached the fhore. 
It is impoffible to exprefs the aftonifhment 
^thefe fK)or creatures at the noife and fire of 
my gun ; fome of them were ready even to die 
for tear , and fell down as dead with the very 
terror : but when they few the creature dead , 
and funk into the water , and that I made figns 
to them to come to the fhore , they took heart, 
and came to the fhore , and began to fearch for 
the creature. I found Km by his blood flaining 
&e wat^r , and by the help of a rope which I 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 43 

flung round him, and gave die negroes to haul , 
they dragged him on fliore , and found it was 
a moft curious leopard , fpotted and fine to an 
admirable degree; and the negroes held up their 
hands with admiration , to think what it was 
I killed him with* 

The other creature , frighted with the flalh 
of fire , and the noife of the gun , fwam to the 
fliore , and ran up directly to the mountains , 
from which they came , nor could 1 at that 
diftance know what it was. I foimd quickly 
the negroes were for eating the flew of this 
creature ; fo I was willing to have them take 
it as a favour from me , which , when I made 
figns to them that they might take it , they were 
very thankful for. Immediately they fell to 
work with him ; and though they had no knife , 
yet, with a fliarpened piece of wood , they took 
off his fkin as readily , nay much more readily 
than we would have done with a knife ; they 
offered me fome of the flefli , which I decli- 
ned , making as if I would give it them : but 
made figns for the fkin , which they gave me 
very freely , and brought me a great deal more 
of their provifion , which though I did not un« 
derftand ,yetl accepted. Then I made figns to 
them for fome water , and held out one of my 
jars to them , turning it's bottom upward , to 
fhew that it was empty , and that I wanted to 
have it filled : they called immediately to fome 
of their friends , and there came two women ^ 
and brought agrea,t veiTel made of earthy a&d 



d by Google 



44 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
burnt, as I A^pofi^ , in the fun ; this diey kt 
down for me , aa before , and I fent Xury ott 
fliore with my Jan's , and filled them all ikrec* 
The women were as ftark naked as the men. 

I was now fiimifhed with roots and com ^ 
fuch as it was , and water ; and leaving my 
friendly Negroes , I made forwand for about 
eleven days more , without ofFering to go near 
the fhore , till I few die land run out a great 
fcngth into the fea , at about the diftance of 
four or five leagues before me : and the fea 
being very calm , I kept a large offing to make 
this point : at length , doubling the point at 
about two leagues from rfie land , I faw plainly 
lend on the other fide to iea-ward : then I con- 
cluded , as it was moil certain indeed , that thi^ 
was the Gape de Verd, and thofe the Ul^nds 
called from thence Cape de Verd Iflands, How- 
ever , they weite at a great diftanoe , and I could 
not tell what I had befl to do ; for if I fhouldi 
be taken with a frefll gale of wmd , I might 
neither reach one or <^er. 

In this dilemma , as I was very' peitfive , J 
ftepped into the ca^? , and fet me do'.vn , 
Xury having the helmf! when on a^ fiidden the 
boy cried . out— *^ Mailer,. mafler , a fliip was a 
V lail!** andithe fobUihboy wsb frighted^out 
of his wits ,, thmAing it muft needs be fome of 
his maftsr's fliipsfent to purfiie us, when I knew 
We w&» gotten hr enough out of their peach*. 
I. jumped out of the cabin ^ andimmediat&lyr 
iiKv no^xmly the;£[iip ^ &i^ what flit w»^. viz»* 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 45 
that it was a Portuguefe fliip ; and ^ as I thought , 
was bound to the coaft of Guinea for Ne« 
groes. But when I obferved the courfe flie flee- 
red , I was foon convinced they were bound 
fome other way , and did not defign to go any 
nearer the fliore ; upon which I ftretched out 
to fea as much as I could ^ refolving to fpeak 
with them , if poffible. 
- Vith all the fail I could make , I found I 
(hould not be able to come in their way , but 
that they would be gone by before I could 
make any fignal to them : but after I had crou- 
ded to the utmoft , and began to defpair , they , 
it feems , faw me by the help of their perfpec- 
tive glaffes , and that it was fome European 
boat, which they fuppofed muft belong to fome 
fhip that was loft : fo they fhortened fail to let 
me come up. I was encouraged by this : and 
as I had my patron's ancient on board , I made 
a waft of It to them for a fignal of diftrefs , and 
fired a gun , both which they faw : for they 
told me they faw the fmoke , though they did 
not hear the gun: upon thefe fignals they very 
kindly brought to , and lay by for me , and in 
about three hours I came up with them. 

They alked me what I was , in Portuguefe , 
and in Spanifli , and in French , but I i|nder- 
ftood none of them ; but at laft , a Scots failor j 
who was on board , called to me , and I anfwe* 
red him , and told him I was an Englifliman , 
that had made my efcape out of flayery fi-om 
the Moors at Sallee ; theu they bid me come 



d by Google 



46 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

en board y and ^rery kindly tDok tat- in y 9xA 
all my goods. 

It was an inexprdfible J0^ to ine ^ any oim 
ivould believe , that I was thus (kliirerea, as t 
efleemed it^ (torn fuch a miserable and almoft* 
kopelefs condition as I was in : I immediately 
offered all I had to the Captain of the ibkp'j 
as a return for my deliverance ; but he gene- 
soufly told me , he wodd take nothing from 
me ^ but that all I had fliould be delivered fafe 
to me y when I came to the Brazils. ** For ," 
iays he , ** I have faved your life on no other 
^ terms than as I v^ould be glad to be faved 
rt myfelf; and it may one time or other be 
^ my lot to be taken up in the fame condiv 
^ tion : befides , ** fiiys he , '* when I carry you 
M to the Brazib , (o great a way from your 
^ own coimtry , if I (hould take from youy 
^ what little you hive ^ yo*i will be ftarved 
w there , and then I only take away that life 
,♦, i have given. No:^ no , iays he, Signior 
M Inglife , ( Mr. Engliihman , ) I would carry 
^9 you.tfaither in charity; and tficfe thin^ will 
,# heipyoatoboyyourfubfitftencedkerey and 
99 your pafTage home again." 

hs^ he was clraritaUe in this propofal , (o- 
he was juft m Ae performaace to a tittles ; for 
he ordered the feanen , that none fliould offer 
to touch any tbing-I had ; then he took every 
thii^ into his own pofieffion , and gave me 
back an exact inventory of them , that I might 
have them again, even, fo much as my tnree 
earthen jars. 



d by Google 



OF HOBINSON CRUSOE. 47 

As to my boatit was a very good one , and 
(hat he faw ; and told me he would buy it of 
-me for the fliip's uie, and a&ed me \^hat I 
would have for it. I told him he had been fo 
generous to me in every thii^ , that I could 
not o^ to make any price of thp boat , but 
left it aitirely to bnn ^ upon w^ich he told 
me he would give me a note of his hand to 
pay me eighty pieces of eight for it a Brazil : 
and when it came there , if any one offered 
to give more , he would make it up : he offe- 
red me alfo fixty pieces of eight more for my 
boy Xury ^ which I was loth to take ; not that 
I was not willing to let the captain have him , 
but I was very Imh to fell the poor boy's liber- 
ty , who had affifted me fo tatithfully in pro- 
curing my o >vB. However , whoi I let him 
know my reafons , he owned it to be fuft, and 
offered me^his medium , that he would give 
Ae boy an obligation to fet him free in ten 
years , if he turned Chriftian. Upon Ais, and 
Xury faying he was willing to go to him , I 
let the captain have him. 

We had a very good voyage to the Bra- 
zils , and arrived in the Bay dt Todos los 
Santos , or Saint's Bay , in about twenty t\K^ 
days after. And now I was once more delive- 
red from the moft miferable of all conditions 
of life ; and what to do next with myfelf I 
was to cbn(ider« 

The generous treatment the captain gav« 
me i can never enougli Femunber; he would 



d by Google 



48 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

take nothing of me for my paffage, gave me 
twenty ducats for the leopard's (kin , and forty 
for the lion's Ikin , which I had in the boat ; 
and caufed every AingI had in the fhip to be 
punctually delivered to me; and what I was 
willing to fell , he bought ; fuch as the cafe of 
bottles , two of my guns , and a piece of the 
lump of bees-wax , for I had made candles of 
the reft; in a word, I made about 220 pieces 
of eight of all my cargo , and with this ftock 
I went on fliore in the Brazils. 

I had not been long here , but being recom- 
mended to the houfe of a good honeft man like 
himfelf , who had an Ingenio , as they call it , 
that is , a plantation , and a fugar-houfe , I liv'd 
with him fome time ; and acquainted myfelf , 
by that means , with the manner of their plan- 
ting , and making of fugar ; and feeing how 
well the planters lived , and how they grew 
rich fuddenly. I refolved , if I could get a li- 
cence to fettle there , I would turn planter 
among them ; refolving , in the mean time , 
to find out fome way to get my money which 
I had left in London , remitted to me. To this 
purpofe , getting a letter of naturalization , I 
purchafed as much land as my money would 
reach ; and fuch an one as might be fuitable 
to the ftock which I propofed to myfelf to 
receive from England. 

I had a neighbour , a Portuguefe of Lisbon, 
but bom of Englifli Parents , whofe name was 
Wells J sind in much fuch ciicumftances as I 

was : 



\ 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 4^ 

was : I call him neighbour , becaufe his plan- 
tation lay next to mine; and we went on 
very fociably together ; my ftock was but 
low , as well as his , and we rather planted 
for food , than any thing elfe, for about two 
years. However , we began to increafe ^ and 
our land began to come in order ; fo that the 
third year we planted fome tobacco , and made 
each o^" us a large piece of ground ready for 
planting canes in the year to come ; but ve 
both wanted help ; and now I found more than 
before, I had done wrong in parting with my 
boy Xury. 

But , alas ! for me to do wrong , that never 
did right, was no great wonder. I had no re- 
medy but to go on. I was gotten into an em- 
ployment quite remote to my genius, and 
xlirectly contrary to the life I delighted in, 
and for which I forfook my father's houfe , 
and broke through all his good advice ; nay , 
I was coming into the very middle ftation, 
Of upper degree of low life , which my father 
advifed me to before , and which , if I refol- 
ved to go on with , I might as well have (laid 
at home , and never fatigued my felf in the 
worlds as I had done ; ana I ufed often to fay 
to myfelf — " I could have done this as well 
„ in England among my friends , as have gone 
^, five thoufand miles off to do it among flran- 
„ gers and favages in a wildernefs , and at fuch 
,, a diftance , as never to hear from any part 
,, of the world that had the leafl knoAledge 
„ of me. 

Vol. L E 

Digitized by VjjOOQIC 



-50 -LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
In this manner I ufed to look upoti my 

i condition v, ith the utmoft regret. I had nobody 
to converfe with but now and then this neigh* 

; bour ; no work to be done but by the labour 

< of my hands ; and I ufed to fay , i lived juft 
like a man caft away upon fome defolatc 
ifland , that had nobody there biit himfelfi 
But ho vv juft has it been , and how At)uM all 

- men reject , that when they compare their pre* 
fent condition with others that are worfe ^Hea* 

-ven may oblige them to make the exchange , 

, iind be convinced of their former felicity ^ by 
their experience ! I fny , how juft it has been ^ 
that the truly folitary.life I reflected on in an 

. tfland 5 or mere defolation , ihould be my lot , 
who had fo oft^n unjuftly compared it w ith 
the life I then led , m which had I continued,, 
I had , in all probability , been exceeding proi^- 
perdiis and rich ! 

I was in fome decree fettled in my meafu* 
T€s for carrying on the plantation , before my 
kind friend^ the captain of theftiip, that to(^ 
me up at fea , went back ; for the fliip remai- 
ned there in providing her loading , and pre- 
paring for ' Iwr voyage , near three months., 
when telling him what little ftock I bad left 
behind me in London , he gave me this friendly 
and fincere advice—*' Signior Ingkfe, ^ fays he, 
„ for fo he always called me , if you will give 
„ m^ letters , and a procuration here m form 
„ to me , with ordefs to the perfon who has ^ 
„ your money in London^ to ifawiyoiir effects 



d by Google 



dF ROBINSON CRUSOE* 51^ 

^, to' Lisbon , to fiich perfons as I fliall direct , - 
9, ana in fuch goods as are proper for this coun- 
,, try , I will bring you the produce of them , 
„ ( God willing ) at my return ; but fince hu- 
„ man affairs are all fubject to changes and 
,9 <Bfafters , I would have you give orders but 
,9 for looK fterlinfe, which you fay is half 
9f your ftock , ana let "the hazard be run for 
4» the firft -, fo that if it comes fafe, you may ^ 
„ order the reft the fame way ; and if it mif- 
<i9 carrier 9 you may havie the other half to * 
,9 have recourfe to for your {upply.** . 

This was fuch whole fpme advice , and loo-^ 
ked fo friendly , that I could not but be con- 
vinced it was the beft courfe I could take ; fo'^ 
I accordingly prepared letters to the gentle- 
v^om<ui \v ith whom 1 had left my money , and 
d procuration Ijd the Portuguefe captain , as he 
defired. 

I wrote the Engliflt captain's widow a full 
account of all my adventures , my flavery , ef- 
cape , and how 1 had met wirfi the Portuguefe 
captain at fta , the humanity of his behaviour , 
and what condition I was now in , with^all 
neceffary directions for my fupply ; and when 
this honeft captain came to Lisbon , he found 
means , by fome of the Englifti m^chants there, 
to (end over not the order only , but a full 
account of my flory to a merchant in Lon- 
don , who prefented it effectually to her ; whe- 
reupon fhe not only delivered the money , but 
Out of her own pock«t fent the Portuguefe 

E 2 



d by Google 



52 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

captain a very handfome prefent for his huma- 
nity and charity to me. 

The merchant in London veiled this i col. 
in Englifti goods , fuch as the captain had Moit* 
^ten for ; fent them directly to him at LisBG^ , 
and he brought them all fafe to me to the Bra- 
zils ; among which , without my direction ^ 
( for I was too young in my bufinefs to think 
of them ) he had taken care to have all forts 
of tools , ironwork , and utenfijs neceffary for 
my plantation , and which were of great ufe 
to me. 

When this cargo arrived , I thought my for- 
tune made, for I was furprized with the joy 
of it ; and my good fteward the captain haA 
laid out the 5I. which my friend had fent him 
for a prefent for himfelf , to purchafe and bring 
me over a fervant under bond for fix years 
fervice ; and would not accept of any confi- 
deration , except a little tobacco , which I 
would have him accept , being of my own 
produce. 

Neither was this all ; but my goods being 
all Englifti manufactures , fuch as cloth , ftufF, 
baize , and things particularly valuable andde- 
firable in the country y I found means to fell 
them to a very great advantages ; fo that I may 
fay , I had more than four times the value of 
my firft cargo , and was now infinitely beyond 
my poor neighbour , I mean in the advance- 
ment of my plantation ; for the firfl thing I 
did , I bought me a negro (lave , and an Euro* 



d by Google 



OF ROBIPTS ON CRUSOE. 53 
pean fervantaSfo; I mean , another befides that '■ 
xn/hich the captaift brought me from Lisbon. 

But as abofedprofperity is oftentimes mad« 
by the very means of our greateft adverfity, fo 
was it with me, I went on the next year with 
great fuccefs in my plantatioov I raifed fifty 
great rolls of tobacco, on my own ground, 
snore tfasm I ted difpoied of for neceffaries 
among my neighbours; and thefe fifty rolls 
being each of above one hundred pounds 
ivei^t y were well cured and laid by , againfl 
die return of the fleet from Lisbon. And now , 
increxfing in bu£ne& and wealth, my head 
began to be full of projects and undertakings 
beyond my reach; fiicbas are indeed often the 
rmn of the befl heads in bufinefs. 

Had I continued ror the fiation I was now 
hi 9 1 hsd room (es all the happy things to have 
yet befallen nae , fbfwhkh my father fo ear- 
nefHy recommeniedra quiet retired life, and 
■which he had fo fcnfibly described the middle 
fetion of life tJO be full of; but oAer things 
attended me, and I was fliH' to be the wilful 
^;ent of all' my own inSfiries : and particu- 
larly to<encre5& mv fault and double the re- 
flections upon my&if which in my future for- 
BOWS r fliCAild have leifnre to maJce; all thefe 
■Jifcarriages were procxired by my apparent 
abftinai^ adhering to mv fooltfh inclination of 
ivandering^ abroad , ana puriuing that inctina- 
teon , in contradictwxv t?o the cleareft views of 
iiei&g;myielf good m^idis m^ plain pur^t 



d by Google 



54 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
of thofe profpects , and thofe meafures of life ^ 
which Nature and Providence concurred to 
prefent me with , and to make my duty. 

As I had once done thus in breaking a\\ ay 
from my parents , fo I could not be content 
now , but 1 muft go and leave the happy view 
I had of being a rich and thriving man in my 
new plantation, only to purfoe a rafh.and im- 
moderate defire of rifing fafter than the nature 
of the thing admitted ; and thus I caft my felf 
down again into the deepeft gulph of human 
mifery that ever man fell into , or perhaps 
could be confiftent with life and a ftate of 
health in the world. 

To come then by juft degrees to the parti- 
culars of this part of my ftory ; you may fup- 
pofe , that having now lived almoft four years 
in the Brazils , and be^nning to thrive and 
profper very well upon my plantation , I had 
not only learned the language , but had con- 
tracted acquaintance and friendfliip among my 
fellow-planters , as well as among the mer- 
chants at St, ^alvadore , which was our port ; 
and that , in my difcourfe among them , I had 
frequently given them an account of my two> 
voyages to the coaft of Guinea , the manner 
of trading with the Negroes there , and how 
eafy it was ,to purchafe upon the coaft , for 
trifles ^ ( fuch as beads , toys , knives ^ fciffars , 
hatches , bits of glafs , and the like ) not only 
gold dufi , Guinea grains , elephants teedi , etc. 
but Negroes for the fervice of the Brazils m 
great numbers* 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 55 

They liftened always very attentively to 
my difcourres on thefe heads , but efpecially 
to that part which related to the buying ne- 
groes , which was a trade at that time not only 
far entered into , but , as far as it \\ as , had beea 
carried on by the Affientos', ( or permiflion of 
the King of Spain and Portugal ) and engrof* 
fed in tibe public ftock ; fo that few Negroes 
were bought , and thofe exceffive dear. 

It happened, being in company one day with 
fome merchants and planters of my acquain- 
tance , and talking of thofe things very earn- 
eftly , three of them came tome the next mor- 
ning 5 and told me they had been mufing very 
much upon what I had difcourfed of with them 
the laft night ; and they came to make a fecret 
propofal to me ; and after enjoining me fecre- 
cy , they told me that they had a mind to fit 
out a fhip to go to Guinea ; that they had alt 
plantations as well as I , and were flraitened 
for nothing fo much as fervants ; that as it was 
a trade that could not publicly fell the Ne- 
groes when they came home , fo they defired 
to make but one voyage , to bring the Ne- 
groes on fliore privately , and divide them 
among their own plantations ; and , in a word ^ 
the queftion was whether I would go their 
fupercargo in the fliip , to manage the trading 
part upon the eoaft of Guinea j and they offe- 
red me , that I fliould have my equal Ihare of 
the Negroes , without providing any part of 



d by Google 



56 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

This was a fair propofal , it muft be con- 
hSed , had it been made to any one that had 
not had a fettlement and plantation of his own 
to look after, which was in a feir way of co- 
ming to be very confiderable , and , with a 
good ftockupon it': but with me that wsk thus 
cftablilhed , and had nothing to do but go on 
as I had begun for three or four years more , 
and to have fent for the other i col. from Eng- - 
land , and who in that time , and with that 
Kttle addition , could fcarce have failed of being 
worth 3 or 4000!. fterling, and that increa- 
sing too : for me to think of fuch a voyage , 
was the moft prepofterous thing that ever man 
m fuch circumftances could be guilty of. 

But I , who was born to be my own de- 
ftroyer , could no more refift the offer than I 
could reftrain my firft rambling defigns, when 
my father's good counfel was loft upon me» 
In a word , I told them I would go with all 
my heart , if they would undertake to look 
after my plantation in ray abience , and wottld 
&fpoft of it to fuch as I fhouJd direct , if I mif- 
Carried. This they all engaged tod^o , and en- 
tered into writings or covenants t& dofo ; and 
I made a formal will, difpo^ng of my planta- 
tion and effects , in cafe of my deafji , making 
the capftun of the ftip who had faved my life ^ 
as before , my univerfal heir , But obliging hinr 
to difpofe of my effects as H had directed in: 
my will :onehalfof thepfodtiee bein^tohim-*- 
fclf^ and the other to be ibipped taEmgland*. 



Digitized by VjjOOQIC 



OF ROBIKSON CRUSO£. 57 
* In fliort , I took all poflible caution to pre- 
ferve my effects , and to keq) up my planta- 
tion. Had I ufed half as much prudence to have 
looked into my own inter eft , and have made 
a judgment of vv hat I ought to have done , and 
not to have done , I had certainly never gone 
away from fo profperous an undertaking; lear 
ving all the probable views of a thriving cir- 
cumftance , and gone upon a voyage to fea ^ 
attended with all its common hazards ; to fay 
nothing of the reafons I had to expect parti- 
cular misfortunes to myfelf. 

But I was hurried on , and obeyed blindly 
the dictates of my fancy , rather than my rea- 
fon; and accordingly , thefhip being fitted out^ 
and the .cargo finifhed , and all things done as 
by agreement by my partners in the voyage , 
I went on board in an evil hour again , the ift 
of September 1659 , being the fame day eight 
years that I went from my father and mother 
at Hull , in order to aft the rebel to their au- 
' thority , and the fool to my own intereft. 

Our fhip was about one hundred and twenty 
tons burden , carried fix guns and fourteen men, 
befides the mafler , his boy , and myfelf: we 
had on board no large cargo of goods, except 
of fuch toys as were fit for our trade with the 
Negroes ; fuch as beads , bits of glafs, (hells , 
and odd trifles ;efpecially little looking-glafTes, 
knives , fcifTars , hatchets , and the like. 

The fame day I went on board we fct fail , 
Handing away to the northward upon our owti 



d by Google 



58 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
^<yafts , with defign to ftretch over for the Afri^ 
ean coaft , when we came into about ten or 
twelve degrees of northern latitude ; which , 
it feems , was the manner of their courfe in 
thofe days : we had very good weather , only 
exeeffive hot , all the way upon our o wn coaft , 
till we came to the height of Cape St. Augufti*. 
rto , from whence , keepiag farther off at fea , 
we loft fight of land , and fleered as if we 
were bound for the Ifle Femand de Koronba , 
holding' our courfe N. E. by N. and leaving 
thofe ifles on theeaft.' In this courfe wepaffed 
the line in about twelve days time, ancl were 
by oui" laft obfervation in ^ degrees 22 minu- 
tes northern latitude , whin a violent tornado ' 
of hutricane , took us quite out of our know- 
iedgfe. It began from the S. E. came about to 
the N. W. then fettled in the N. E. from 
whence'itblew in fuch a terrible manner , that 
for twelve days together , we could do no-^ 
thing but drive ; and fcudding a\ vay before it ^ 
let it carry us wherever Fkte and the fury of 
the winds directed ; and during thefe twelve 
days I need not fay , that I expected every day 
to be fwallowed up% nor did any in: the Ihip 
expect otherwife. 

In this diftrefi , we had , befides the terror 
of a florm , one of our men die of the calen- 
ture , and a man and a boy wafhed over board. 
About the twelfth day , the weather abating a 
little , the matter made an obfervation as well 
as he coulid 1 and found that he was in about 



d by Google 



OF HOBINSON CRUSOE. 59 
1 1 degrees of north latitude , but that he was 
22 degrees of longitude difference weft from 
Cape St. Auguftino , fo that he found he was 
gotten upon the coaft of Guiana , or the north 
•j?art of Brazil, 'beyond the river Amazones , 
towards that of the river Oroonoque , com- 
monly called the Great River; and now he 
bejgan to confult with me what courfe he fliould 
taice ; for the (hip was leaky , and very much 
difabled ; and he was for going directly back 
. to the coaft of Brazil. ^ 

1 was pofitively againft that ; and , looking 
• over the charts of the fea coaft of America with 
him , we concluded there was no inhabited 
country for us to have recourfe to, till we 
came within the circle of the Caribbee Iflands; 
and therefore refolved to ftand away forBar- 
badoes ^ which , by keeping off at fea , to avoid 
the indraught of the bay or gulph of Mexico , 
we might eafily perform , as we hoped , in 
about fifteen days fail ; whereas we could not 
.poflibly make our voyage to the coaft of Africa 
u ithout fome affiftance both Co our ihip and 
to ourfelves. 

With this defign we changed our courfe , 
and fteered away N. W. by W. in order to 
reach fome of our Engl ifh iflands, where I ho- 
ped for relief: but our voyage was otherwife 
determined; for being in the latitude of 12 
degrees 1 8 minutes , a fecond ftorm came upon 
us ., vhich carried us away with the fame im- 
.petuofity weftward, and diove us fo out of 



d by Google 



X 



6o LiFE AND ADVENTURES 

the way of all human commerce , that had all 
our lives been faved , as to the fea , we were 
rather iil danger of being devoured by fava- 
ges, than ever returning to our o-' n country. 

In this diftrefs , the wind ftill blowing very 
hard , one of our men , early one morning , 
cried out — ^'Land!** and we had no fooner 
run out of the cabin to look out , in hopes 
of feeing whereabouts in the world ^ve were , 
but the (hip ftruck upon a fand , and in a mo- 
ment , her motion being fo flopped , the fea 
broke over her in fuch a manner , that we ex- 
pected we fliould all have periflied immedia- 
tely ; and we were even driven into our clofe 
quarters , to flielter us from the very foam and 
ipray of the fea. 

It is not eafy for any one who has not been 
in the like condition , to defcribe or conceive 
the confternation of men in fuch circumftan- 
ces ; we knew nothing where we were , or 
upon what land it was we were driven , whe- 
ther an ifland or the main , whether inhabi- 
ted or not inhabited : and , as the rage of the 
wind was ftill great though rather left than at 
firft , we could not fo much as hope to have 
the (hip hold many minutes without breaking in 
pieces , unlefs the winds by a kind of mira- 
cle, (hould turn immediately about. In a word, 
we fat looking upon one another , and expect- 
ing death every moment , and every man act- 
ing accordingly , as preparing for another 
world ; for there was little or nothing more 

for 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 6i 

for us to do in this : that which was our pre- 
fent comfort, and all the comfort we had, 
was , that contrary to our expectation , the 
iliip did not break yet , and that the mafter 
faid the wind began to abate. 

Now , though we thought that the wind 
did a little abate, yet the fliip having thus 
ftruck upon the fand , and fticking too feft for 
us to expect her getting off, we were in a dread- 
ful condition indeed , and had nothing to do 
but to think of faving our lives as well as we 
could, We had a boat at our ftem , juft before 
the ftorm ; but (he was firft ftaved by dalhing 
againft the fliip's rudder , and in the next place 
{he broke away , and was either funk , or dri- 
ven off to fea ; fo there was no hope from her : 
we had another boat on board , but how to 
get her off into the fea was a doubtfol thing ; 
however , there was no room to debate ; for 
we fancied the fliip would break in pieces every 
minute ; and fome told us ftie was actually 
broken already. 

In diis diftrefr, the mate of our veflel laid 
holdof the boat, and with the help of the reft 
of the men , they got her flung over the fhip's 
fide , and getting all into her , let go , and com- 
mitted ourfelves , being eleven in number , to 
God's mercy , and the wide fea ; for though 
the ftorm \yas abated confiderably , yet the 
fea went dreadfully high upon the fhore , and 
xnight well be called den wild zee , as the Dutch 
call the fea in a ftorm. 

Vol. I. F 



d by Google 



62 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

And now our cafe was very difmal indeed ; 
for we all faw plainly , that the fea went fo 
high , that the boat could not efcape , and 
that we fhould be inevitably drowned. As to 
making fail we had none; nor, if we had , 
^ could we have done any thing with it ; fo we 
worked at the oar towards the land , though 
with heavy hearts , like men going to execu- 
tion ; for we all knew ^ that when the boat 
came near fliore , (he would be broke in a thou- 
fand pieces by the breach of the fea. However , 
we committed our fouls to God in the moft 
eaimeft manner , and the wind driving us to- 
wards the fhore , we haftened our deftruction 
with oiu- hands , pulling , as well as we could , 
towards the land. 

What the (hore was ^ whether rock or fand , 
whether fteep or ihoal , we knew not ; the only 
hope that could rationally give us the leaft 
{hadow of expectation , was , if we might hap- 
pen into fome bay or gulph , or the mouth of 
fome river, where by great chance we might 
have run our boat in , or got under the lee of 
the land; and perhaps made fmooth water* 
But there was nothing of this appeared ; but as 
we made nearer and nearer the fliore , the land 
looked more frightful than the fea. 

After we had rowed , or rather driven , about 
a league and an half, as we reckoned it , a ra- 
ging wave , mountain like , came rolling a-flern 
of us, and plainly bid us expect the coup dc 
grace. In a word , it took us with fuch a fory ^ 



d by Google 



n 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 63 

that it ovcrfet the boat at once , and feparating 
us , as well from the boat as from one ano- 
ther, gave us not time hardly to fay, ** O God!** 
for we were all fwallowea up in a moment. 

Nothing can defcribe the conftifion of thought 
which I felt when I funk into the water : for 
though I fwam very well , yet I could not de^- 
liver myfelf from the waves fo as to draw 
breath , till that wave having driven me or 
rather carried me a vaft way on towards the 
ihore , and having fpent itfelf , went back , and 
left me upon the land almoft dry , but half 
dead with the water I took in : I had.ib much 
prefence of mind, as well as breath left, that 
feeing myfelf nearer the main land than I ex- 
pected , I got upon my feet, and endeavoured 
to make on towards the land , as faft as I could, 
l^efore another wave ftiould return , and take 
me up again. But I foon found it was impoffi- 
ble to avoid it , for I faw the fea come after 
me as high as a great hill , and as fririous as 
an enemy which I had no means or ftreng^ 
to contend with ; my bufinefs was to hold my 
breath , and raife myfelf upon the water , if 
I could , and fo by f ^viming to prefervc my 
breathing, and pilot myfelf towards the fliore , 
ifpoflible; my greateft concern jiow being, 
that the wave , as it would carry me a great 
way towards the fliore when it came on , 
might not carry me back again with it , when 
it gave back towards the fea. 

The wave that came upon me again buried 

F % 



d by Google 



64 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
me at once twenty or thirty feet in its own 
body ; and I could feel myfelf carried with a 
mighty force and fwiftnefs towards the fliore, 
a very great way ; but I held my breath , and 
aflifted myfelf to fwim ftill forward with all 
my might. I was ready to burft with holding 
my breath , when , as I found myfelf riiing 
up, fo , to my immediate relief, I found my 
head and hands fhoot out above the furface of 
the water ; and though it was not two feconds 
of time that I could keep myfelf fo , yet it re- 
lieved me greatly , gave me breath and new 
courage. 1 was covered again with water a 
good while , but not fo long but I held it out ; 
and finding the water had fpent itfelf , and be- 
gan to return , I ftruck forward againft the 
return of the waves , and felt ground again 
with my feet. I flood ftill a few moments to 
recover breath , and till the waters went from 
me 5 and then I took to my heels ^ and ran 
with what ftrength I had farther towards the 
fliore. But neither would this deliver me from 
the fury of the fea , which came pouring after 
me again , and twice more I was lifted up by 
the waves , and carried forwards as before , 
the fliore being very flat. 

The lafl^ time of thefe two had well near 
been fetal to me ; for the fea , having hurried 
me along as before , landed me , or rather 
daihed me , againfl a piece of a rock , and that 
with fuch force , as it left me fenfelefs , and 
indeed helplefs , as to my own deliverance ; 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 65 

for blow taking my fide and breaft , b^t the 
breath , as it were y quite out of my body ; 
and had it returned again immediately , I muft 
have been ftrangled in the water ; but I reco- 
vered a little before the return of the waves ; 
and feeing I (hould be covered again with the 
water, I refolved to hold feft by a piece of 
the rock, and fo to hold my breath, if pofli* 
ble , till the wave went back. Now as the wa- 
ves were not fo high as at firft , being near land , 
I held my hold till the wave abated ; and then 
fetched another run , which brought me fo near 
the ihore , that the next wave , though it went 
over me , yet did not fwallow me up fo as to 
carry me away ; and the next run I took , I 
got to the main land , where , to my great 
comfort , I clambered up the clifts of thefhore 
and fat me down upon the grafs , free from dan- 
ger and quite out of the reach of the water. 

I was now landed , and fafe on fliore , and 
began to look up and thank God that my life 
was faved , in a cafe wherein there was , fome 
minutes before, fcarce any room to hope. I 
believe it is impoflible to exprefs to the life , 
what the ecftacies and tranfports of the foul are, 
when it is fo faved , as I may fay ^ out of the 
very grave ; and I do not wonder now at that 
cuftom , viz. that when a malefactor , who has 
the halter about his neck , is tied up , and juA 
going to be turned off, and has ^ reprieve 
brought him ; I fay , I do not wonder thajl: they 
tring a furgeon with it , to let him blood that 

F3 



d by Google 



<J6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

very moment they tell him of it , that the fiu> 
prize may not drive the animal fpirits from the 
heart, and overwhelm him. 

>For fudden joys , like griefs , confound at firft* 

I walked about on the fhore , lifting up my 
hands , and my whole being , as I may fay ^ 
wrapped up in the contemplation of my deli- 
verance , making a thoufand geftures and ma-^ 
tions , which I cannot defcribe , reflecting upor^ 
all my comrades that were drowned , and that 
thffr* fhould not be one foul faved but myfelf ;. 
for as for them , I never faw them afterwards > 
or any fign of them , except three of their hats ^ 
one cap , and two fhoes that were not fellow^.. 

I caft my eyes to the ftranded ve^el , when; 
the breach , and froth of the fea being fo big^ 
I could hardly (ee it, it lay fo fiir off; and con- 
fidered , •' Lord ! how was it poflible I could 
„ get on fhore ! ** 

After I had folaced my mind with the com- 
fortable part of my condition , I began to look 
round me , to fee what kind of place I was in ^ 
and what was next to be done*, and I foon 
found my comforts abate , and that , in a word ,. 
I had a dreadful deliverance ; for I was wet ^ 
had no clothes to fliift me , nor any thing either 
to eat or drink , to comfprt me*; neither did I 
fee any profpect before me,but that of perifliing 
with hunger , or being devoured by wild beafts ; 
and that which was particularly affecting to 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 67 

me was , that I had no weapen either to hunt 
or kill any creature for my fuftenance , or to 
defend myfelf againft any other creatures that 
might denre to Kill me for theirs. In a \^ ord , 
I had nothing about me but a knife , a tobacco- 
pipe , and a little tobacco m a box ; this was 
all my provifion ; and this threw me into ter- 
rible agonies of mind , fo that for a while I ran 
about like a mad man. Night coming upon 
me , I began , with an heavy heart , to confi- 
der what would be my lot , if there were any 
ravenous beafts in that country , feeing at night 
they always come abroad for their prey. 

AH the remedy that offered to my thoughts 
at that time was , to get up into a thick buihy 
tree , like a fir , but thorny , which grew near 
me , and where I refolved to fit all night , and 
confider the next day what death I fliould die; 
for , as yet , I faw no profpect of life. I walked 
about a furlong from the fhore , to fee if I could 
find any frefli water to drink , which I did to 
my great joy ; and having drank , and put a 
little tobacco in my mouth , to prevent hun- 
ger , I went to the tree ; and , getting up into 
it , endeavoured to place myfelf fo , as that , if 
I fhould fleep , I might not fall ; and , having 
cut me a fhort ftick like a truncheon , for my 
defence , I took up my lodgings ; and having 
been exceffiyely fetigued , I fell faft afleep , and 
flept as comfortably as I believe any perfon 
could have done in my fituation. 

"When I awoke it \yas broad day , the wea-- 



d by Google 



6S LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ther clear , and the ftorm abated ; I was greatly 
furprifed to find the (hip had been lifted off in 
the night , from the fand where flie lay , by the 
fwelling of the tide , and was driven up almoft 
as far as the rock which I firft mentioned , and 
where I had been fo bruifed by being daflied 
againft it : this being within about a mile from 
the fliore where I was , and the fhip ieeming 
to ftand up ftill , I wiflied my felf on board ^ 
that at leaft, I might fav^ fome neceflkry things 
for my ufe. 

When I came down from my apartment in 
the tree , I looked about me again ; and the firft 
thing I found was the boat , which Ifiy as the 
wind and fea had toffed her upon the land ^ 
about two miles to my right hand. I walked 
as far as I could upon the fhore to' get at her ; 
but found a neck or inlet of water between 
me and the boat , which was about half a mile 
broad ; fo I came back for the prefent , being 
more intent upon getting to the fhip , where I 
hoped to find fomething for my prefent fub-^ 
iiftence. 

A little after noon I found the fea very 
calm , and the tide ebbed fo far out , that I 
could come within a quarter of a mile of the 
{hip ; and here I found a frefli renewing of my 
grief; for I faw evidently that if we had kept 
on board , we had been all fafe ; that is to fdy 
we had all got fafe on fhore , and I Jiad not 
been fb-miferable as to be left entirely deflim 
tute of all cQmfort and company , ^ I naw 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 69 

was : this forced tears from my eyes again ; 
but as there was little relief in that , I refol- 
ved if poffible to get to the (hip; fo I pulled 
off my cloathes arfd took to the water ; but 
" when I came to the fliip , my difficulty was 
ftill greater to know how to get on board : 
as fhe lay a-ground , and high out of the wa- 
ter , there was nothing within my reach to 
lay hold of: I fwam round her twice , and the 
fecond time I efpied a fmall piece of rope , 
which I wondered I did not fee at firft , hang 
down by the fore-chains , fo low , as with 
great difficulty I got hold of it , and by the 
help of that rope , got up into the for^-caftle 
of the (hip. Here I found that (he was bul- 
ged , and a great deal of water in 'the hold , 
but that flie lay fo on the fide of a bank of 
hard fand , or rather earth , that her ftem lay 
lifted up on the bank , and confequently her 
head low to the water : by this means all her 
quarter was free , and all that was in that dry ; 
for you may be furemy work was to fearch , 
and part to fee what was fpoiled and what was 
not : and firft I found , that all the (hip's pro- 
vifions were dry , and untouched by the wa- 
ter; and being very well difpofed to eat , I 
went to the bread-room , and filled my poc- 
kets with bifcuit , and eat as I went about 
other things , for I had no time to lofe. I alfo 
found fome rum in the great cabin^ of which 
I took a large dram , and which I nad , indeed ^ 
need enough of, to raife my drooping fpirits. 



d by Google 



70 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

Now I wanted nothing but a boat y to fumifh 
jnyfelf with many things which I forefaw 
woidd be very neceffary. 

It was in vain to fit ftill and wifh for what 
was not to be had \ and this extremity rouzed 
my application. We had feveral fpare yards , 
and two or three large fpars of wood , and 
a fpare top-maft or two in the fliip ; I refol- 
ved to go to work with thefe , ana threw as 
many of them over-board as I could manage 
for tfieir weight, tying every one with a rope ^ 
that they might not drive away ; when this 
was done , I went down the (hip's fide , and 
drawing them to me , I tied four of them fail 
together at both ends as w^U as I could , in 
the form of a raft ; ^nd , laying two or three 
ihort pieces of plank upon them crofs-ways , 
I found I could walk upon it v^ry well , but 
that it ^vas not able to bear any great weight, 
the pieces being too light. To remove this in- 
convenience , with a carp^ter's few I cut a 
fpare topmaft into three lengths , and added 
them to my raft , with a great deal of labour 
and pains ; but the hope of fumifliing myfelf 
with neeeflaries , encouraged me to go beyond 
what I fliould have been able to have done 
upon another occafion. 

My raft b^ing now ftrong enough to bear 
any reafonable weight , my next care was what 
to load it with , and how to preferve what 
was on it fi-om the furf of the fea ; but I was 
not long confiderin^ this : I firft laid all th« 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 71 

planks or boards upon it that I could get ; and 
having confidered well what I moft wanted, 
I got Siree of the feamen*s chefts , which I had 
broken open and emptied , and lowered them 
down upon my raft ; the firft of thefe I filled 
with provifions , \\z. bread , rice , three Dutch 
cheefes, five pieces of dried goat's flefli, which 
we lived much upon , and a little remainder 
of European com , which had been laid by for 
fome fowls we brought to fea with us , but 
the fowls were killed ; there had been fome 
barley and wheat together ; but to my great 
difappointment ^ I found afterwards , that the 
rats had eaten or fpoiled it alL As for liquots , 
I found feveral cafes of bottles belonging to 
Our Ikipper , in which were fome cordial wa- 
ters , and in all about five or fix gallons of 
arrack; diefe I flowed by themfelves, there 
being no need to put them into the chefl , nor 
^indeed any room for them. While I was doing 
this , I found the tide began to flow , though 
very calm , and I had the mortification to ie€ 
my coat , (hirt , and waiflcoat , which I had 
left on fhore upon the famd , go away ; as for 
my breeches, which were only linen , and open 
at the knees , I fwam on board in them and 
my ftockings : however , this put me upon rum-* 
maging for cloaths , of whicHI found enough ^ 
but took no more than I wanted for prefent 
ufe , for I had other things which my eye was 
more upon ; as , firft , tools to work with on 
Ihore , a^d it was after long fearching that I 



Digitized by VjjOOQIC 



72 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
found out the carpenter's cheft , which was in- 
deed a very ufeful prize to me, and much more 
valuable than a ihip-loading of gold would 
have been at that time. I got it down to my 
raft 5 even whole as it was , without lofing time 
to look into it, for I knew in general what it 
contained. 

My next care was for fome ammunition and 
arms. There were two very good fowling pie- 
ces in the great cabin , and two piftols ; thefe 
I fecured with fome powder horns , a fmall bag 
of fliot , and two old rufty fwords : I knew 
there were three barrels of powder in the fliip , 
but could not tell where the gunner had flo- 
wed them; but with much fearch I found them : 
two were dry and good , but the third had taken 
water ; the two that were good I got to my raft 
with the arms. And now I thought myfelf pret- 
ty well freighted , and began to thinck how I 
fhould get to fliore with them , having neither 
fail , oar , or rudder , and the leaft cap-full of 
wind would have overfet all my navigation. 

I had three encouragements : i . A fmooth 
and calm fea. 2. The tide rifing and fettingin 
to the fliore. 3. What little wind there vas 
blew me towards the land. And thus , having 
found two or three broken oars belonging to 
the boat , befides^the tools which w^e in the 
cheft, two faws , an axe , and a hammer , with 
this cargo I put to fea. For a mile , or there- 
abouts , my raft went very well , only that I 
found it drive a littAe diftant from the place 

where 



d by Google 



OP ROBINSON CRUSO£. 73 

where I had landed before ; by which I pet- 
ceived there was fome indraught of the water ^ 
and confequently I hoped to find fome creek 
of the river there , which I might make ufe of 
as a port to get to land with my cargo. 

As 1 imagined , fo it was ; there appeared be- 
fore me a little opening of the land. I found a 
ftrong current of the tide fet into it ; fo I guided 
my raft as well as I could to keep in the middle 
of the ftream : hut here I had like to have fuf- 
fered a fecond (hip wreck , which , if I had , I 
think verily would have broken my heart; for, 
knowing nothing of the coaft , my raft run 
aground at one end upon a (hoal , and not being 
aground at the other , all my cargo had nearly 
flipped off to wards that end whidh was afloat, 
and fo fallen into the water : I did my utmoft 
to prevent this ,l)y fetting my back againft the 
chefts, to keep them in their places, but could 
not thruft off the raft with all my ftrength ; 
neither durft I ftir from the pofture I was in , 
fupporting the chefls with all my might , flood 
in that manner near half an hour , in which 
time the rifing of the water brought me a little 
more upon a level ; and foon after , the water 
flill rifing , my raft floated again , and I thruft 
her off with the oar I had into the channel ; 
and then driving up higher ; I at length found 
myfelf in the mouth of a little river , with land 
on both fides , and a ftrong current of tide run- 
ning up. I looked on both fides for a proper 
place to s:et to (hore, for I was not willing to 
Vol. I. G 



d by Google 



7^\ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

b^ driven too higKup the river , hoping in time 
to fee fome fliip ,at fea, and therefore refolved 
to plac^ niyielf as near the coail ^ I could. 

At length I efpied a little cove on the right 
fliore of the creek y to which , with great pains 
and difficulty , I- guided my raft; and at laft 
got fo near y that , reaching ground w ith my 
oar , I Qould thruft her directly in ; but here I 
had Uke to have dipped all my cargo in the fea 
again ; fpr that (hore lying pretty fteep , that 
k to fay , floping , there was no place to lapd , 
hut where one end of the float , if it ran oa 
$iQre , would be fo hi^ , and the other fink 
tower y a? before , that it would endanger my 
^^rgo again : all that I could do , was to wait 
till the tide was at the higheft , keeping the raft 
with ipy oar like an anchor , to hold th^ fide 
of it feu to the (hore^ne$r a flat pi^ce of ground 
whicb I expected the waiter woi^ld Aqw over '^ 
and fo it did. A? fopi:ia&I fpupd water enough 
(for piy r^^ft di:^.\v about a foot of water ) I 
tliruft her upon th^t flat pie:ce of ground , and 
there feftened oif moored her , by flicking my 
two broken oars into the ground \ one on one 
fide , near one etld, and one on the. other fide 
near the other end; and thus I lay till the wa- 
ter ebbed away , and ieft my raft and aU my 
cargo f^Jfe. on fli^re* 

My next wpfk was to view the country , 
arid, feek a, proper place for my habitation,, and 
\\ here ft flow my goods., to fecvi^e them from 
whatever might h^pen. Where! ws^Iyet knew 



d by Google 



CooKBc Edition ov >:y.i.rAT ycvKi.y. 




dbyGoOgk 



■^ 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 75 

tiot ; whether on the continent or on an ifland ; 
whether inhabitea , or not inhabited ; whether 
in danger of wi!d beafts , or not. There was 
a hill not above a mile from me , which rofe 
up very fteep ^nd high , and which fcemed to 
over-top fome other hills that lay as in a ridge 
from it northward : I took out one of the fbw- 
feig-pieces , and one of the piftols , and ahorn 
of powder ; and thus armed , I travelled for 
difcovefy itp to the top 6f that hill , where , 
tfter 1 had with great labour and difficulty got 
up , I immediately faw my fate to my great 
irfHiction ; viz. that I was in an ifland envito- 
ned every way with the fea , no land to be 
feen except fome rocks which lay a great way 
Off, and two iflands lefs than this , which lay 
ibout thi^ leagues to the weft. 

1 found alfo that the ifland I was in was bar- 
ren , and , as I had reafon to believe , \inin- 
hiibited , except by wild beafts , of which , 
h^wtver , I faw none ; but I difcovered abun- 
dance of fowls , though I knew not their kinds ; 
neither , wlien I killed them , could I tell what 
was fit for food , and wbat not. On my return 
I (hot at a great bird which I faw fitting upon 
a tree on the fide of a large wood : I believe 
it was the firft gun that had been fired there 
fince the creation of the world. 1 had no foo- 
ter fired , but from all parts of the wood there 
arofe an extraordinary nimiber of fowls of 
many forts , making a confufed fcreaming and 
crying , every one according to his ufual note ; . 

G 2 



d by Google 



'S. 



y6 LIF£ AND ADVENTURES 

but not one of them of any kind that I knew; 
as for that creature I killed , I took it to be 
a kind of hawk , its colour and beak re/em- 
bling it , but it had no talons or claws more 
than common ; its flefli was carrion-and fit 
for nothing. 

Contented with this difcovery , I came back 
to my raft, and began working to bring my 
cargo on fliore , which took me up the reft of 
the day: what to do with myfelfatnight, I 
knew not , nor indeed where to reft ; for I was 
afraid to lie down on the ground , not knowing 
but fome wild beaft might devour me, though 
I afterwards found there was really no need 
for thofe fears* 

However, as well as I could, I barrlcadoed 
myfelf round with the chefts and boards that 
I had brought on fliore , and jnade a kind of 
hut for that night's lodging : as for food , I yet 
faw not which way to fiipply myfelf, except 
that I had obferved two or three creatures like 
hares run out of the wood where I fliot the fowl. 

I now began to confider , that I might yet 
get a great many things out of the fliip which 
would be ufeful to me , and particularly fomc 
of the rigging and fails , and fuch other things 
as might come to hand ; and I refolved to make 
another voyage on board the veffel , if pofli- 
ble; and as I knew the firft ftorm that blew 
muft neceffarily break her all in pieces , I re- 
folved to fet all other things apart till I got 
every thing out of the {hip I could. I then cal- 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 7^ 

led a couadl , durt is to fc^ , in my thoi^hts , 
-wbether 4>r n&tl ttio\M take bade the raft; 
hut this appeared iinpra6>ic2ft>le ; to I refolvcd 
to go as before , when the fkle <was^ wn ; and 
J dwi fo , xmly dwt i iftripped 1>efbr« I w ent 
irom my hut y having nobbing on but a che- 
tfuered fhirt , a pair ^' linen drawi^rs , and a 
pair offKonps on niy ^et« 

I got an ioard die Aip as l)efore : and-pre- 
parcd a fecond raft ; and h«ving ibad experience 
from the Arft , I neither ^ifiaide this fo unwieldy , 
nor loaded k fo hafd ; but yet I brawgirt away 
feverai /things '▼ery iffefttl 430 me : as , ftrft in 
die catpenter*s tftore5 found two or three 'bags 
full of nails and ^ptkes , a great f<tfew }a<?k , a 
do2en or tw© 'Of-hatcbets^ and Aove dll , fhat 
moft ufeful Ainecalled agrind^one: alUbde 
I fecttred , it^getner with^everal things belong- 
ing rto cfei gunner j9 particularly two or Arec 
iron-crows, and two barrels of mufltet bul- 
lets ^ {ferven >miife6ts , and another fowling- 
piece ^ mail fonie 4maU <]iiantity of powder 
mens ; a Iat^ ^zg tfiiU of fmall (hot , and a 
«aatt>roll of Ibeet lead ; but this laft was fo 
hesvy , i GO^lld^mitihoift itup^o getit over the 
&ip's M^. 

*«Kdw thc^ • Aings , I tO(Jk all the merits 
tl^iathsfthat Icjoald^find , and a^pj^«ibpe-top 
iaii, >httmirtf^k , and fome 'bedding ; and with 
d»$:Iiloa(i^ my Second raft , and* brought them 
alfo all fafe -onAore 5^0 «iy very great com- 

G3 



d by Google 



78 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

I was under fome apprehenfions during my 
abfence from the land j that at leaft my pro- 
vifions might be devoured on fliore ; but when 
I came back, I found no fign of, any vifitor , 
only there fat k creature like a wild cat upon 
one of the chefts , which , when I came to- 
wards it , ran away to a little diflance , and 
then flood ftill ; j(b^ fat very ^ompofed and 
unconcerned , and looked ftiU in my face , as 
if fhe had a mind to be acquainted with me. 
J prefented my gun at her , but ihe did not 
underftaHd it , ihe was perfectly unconcerned 
at it , nor did (he offer to ftir aw ay ; upon 
which I toffed her a bit of bifcuit, though 
by the way I was not very free of it , for 
my ftore was not great. However , I fp^ared 
her a bit , I fay , and (he went to it> fmeiled 
of it , and eat it, and looked (as if pleafed) 
^ more ; but as I could fpare no more , flie 
marched off. 

Having got my ftcond cargo on fhore, 
( though I was obliged to open the barrels of 
powder, <md bring them by parcels , for they 
were too heavy , being large ca&s ) I went ta 
worH to make a little tent with the feil , and 
fome poles which I cut for that purpofe; and 
into this tent I brought every thing that J knew 
wouWfpoiV, either with r^in or fun; I piled 
all the empty eh^fts and cafks up m a circle 
round the tent, to fortify it from wy fodden 
attempt , either from man or beaft^ 

Vhen I had done this , I blocked up the do« 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 79 
©f the tent with fome boards within , and an 
empty cheft fet up an end without ; and fprea- 
ding one of the beds upon the ground , laying 
my two piftols juft at my heaa , and my gun 
at length by me, I went to bed for the firft 
time , and flept very quietly all night : I was 
very weaiy and heiivy ; for the night before I 
had flept little, and had laboured very hard all 
day , as well to fetch thofe things from the 
fliip , as to get them on fliore. 

I had the largeft magazine of all kinds now 
that ever was laid up , I believe for one man ; 
but I was not fatisfied ftill ; for while the'fhip 
was in an upwright pofture , I thought I ought 
to get every thing out of her I could; fo every 
day at low water I went on board , and brought 
away fomething or other ; but particularly the 
third time I went , I brought away as much of 
the rigging as I could ,^as alio all the fmall ro- 
pes and rope-twine I could get, with a piece 
of fpare canvas, which was to mend the fails 
wpoh occafioji , and the barrel of wet gun- 
powder; in a word, I brought away all the 
foils firft and laft, only that I was cAlieed to 
cut them in pieces , and bring as mueh at a 
time as I coul4; for they were ho more ufe- 
ful to: me for fiiils, but as mere canvas only. 

But that, which comforted me moreftilt ^ 
was , that at laft of all, after I had made five 
or fix filch voyages as thefe , and thought I 
had nothing more to expect from the fhip, that 
wa3^ worth jneddling withi I fay ,.iafter all this^ 



d by Google 



8k> LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

I found a great he^[{head of bircad^ftfareela^ 
run^Iets of rum or fpirits , afcoKof fine ingar , 
and a barrel of fine &0m ; iffais was Siirprizing to 
jne , becaufe I ^ad given over expecting any 
Jinore provifions , lexoQpt what was fpoiled by 
the water. I foon emptied thehc^ftiead x>f the 
tread , and wrapped it up , parcel by parcel , 
in pieces of the &ils., which I cut out; and, 
in a word , I got all tkns £ife on fhore .aUb , 
though at leveral times. 

The next day 1 ^ade another v3oyage ; and 
now having ^plundeted the tfliip of wliat 'was 
^oi^ta^kj, and fit to hand out, I began with 
♦the cables.; andicutting the gteatjcahle irrto|)ie^ 
ces ^ fuch as I OQuId move> 1 got two jcables 
andra h&U^r on fliDfe., withaU the iron worlc 
1 could get,; juid havirtgautfdDWnfthe'i^rit- 
iail-yasd and the mizen yard, and severy thing 
I^auld to make a flajige taft^ I kxadadit^ih 
all thofe heavy ^oods, and loame a>way : but 
myigood luck b^gan to leave jiue>; for this Was^ 
fo unwieldy , and fo Dvcrladenv^ that;aft«- 1 
had entered the little icove^ -where il bad haw 
ded the reft of my 'goods >, ,nat being. able .fe> 
guide it cfo handilyiaslxiid^the rpt]aer.^titover-^ 
^t) and Tthsew ims and all tmj^caxgd into the 
wdter. .A^^er n^feli, tit iwas ttp (great hatriti ^ 
for I was near the}flme:;>httta^to)niy car||;o, 
it was»gfeit^ftt>f it ldftl,icfpcclaHy the iron^ 
which I eK^ted ^v»tild ;hnv« boen.<0£great ufe 
to me; howfeverywficn thetidc wasoitt^I^got 
iBoft ixyi i^4>i^s of xidhk iaStine^ .and £(mm 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 81 

©f the iron , though with infinite labour, for I 
was obliged to dip for it into the water , a 
work which fatigued me very much; after this , 
I went every day on board , and brought away . 
what I could get. 

I had been thirteen days on fliore,and eleven 
times on board the fhip ; in which time I had 
brought away all that one pair of hands could 
well be fuppofed capable to bring ; though I 
believe verily , had the calm weather held , I 
fliould have brought away the whole (hip , 
piece by piece : but preparing for the twelfth 
time to go on board, I found the wind began 
to rife ; however , at low water , I v;ent on 
board; and though I thought I had rummaged 
the cabin fo efFectually as that nothing mor^ 
could be found, yet I mfcovered a locker with 
drawers in it , in one of which I found two or 
three razors , and one pair of large fcifTars , 
with ten or a dozen gooa kniv€;s and forks ; in 
another, I found about thirty-fix pounds value 
in money , fome European coin , fome Brazil , 
fome pieces of eight , fome gold , and fome 
filver. 

I fmiled to myfelf at the fight of this mo- 
ney. " O drug ! ^ faid I aloud , what art thou 
„ good for ? Thou art of no worth to me , 
„ no , not the taking off the ground ! one of 
„ thofe knives is worth all this heap ; I have 
„ no manner of ufe for thee , even remain 
„ where thou art , and go to the bottom as 
„ a creature whofe life is not worth faving ! ** 



d by Google 



6^ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

Hoveircr , upon fecond thoughts , I took it 
away ^ and wrapping all this m a piece of can- 
vas , I began to think of making another raft ; 
but while I was preparing this , 1 found the fky 
overcaft , and the wind began to tiih , and in A 
fjuaiter of an hour it blew a freih gale fiom the 
Chore ; it prefently occurred to me , that it was in 
vain to pretend to makeardt , with the wind off 
fiiore , and that k was my l>afinefs to be gone be- 
fore the tide of ilood began , other wife I might 
not be able to reach the fhore at all ! according-^ 
ly , I let myfelf down into the water ; and fwam 
acrofs the channel , which lay between the ftip 
and die fand ^ and even that with great difficult 
ty , partly with the weight of the things I h^A 
about me , and partly the rougnefe of the water ; 
for the wind rose very haftily , andbefo!^ k^&^ 
quite high water , it blew a ftorm. 

But I was got hoHK to my little tent , where I 
lay with all my wealth aboust me very fecure. It 
blew hard aU that night; and in the morning , 
Tjrhen I kxdted out, tehold , iw more fliip was 
to be ieen. I was a litdie furprieed; but recovered 
myfelf with this fatisfectory reflection ; vi«« that 
I had loft tto time , i!ior abated any diligence , to 
get every thing out of licr that coidd be ufeftfl 
to me ; and drat indeed thene was little leftin her 
that I was able to bring away ^ if I had mom ti- 
me. I now ^vc over any more thought of the 
(hip , or of any thing out of her , except what 
might drive on fljore from her wreck , as indeed 
divers pieces of lier afterwards did; bat tho(c 
things were of fmall ufe to me. 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 83 

My thoughts were now wholly employed 
about feeling myfelfagainft either savages, if 
any Ibo^ldajqjear, or wild beafts , if any were 
m the ifiW> and I bad many thoughts of the 
pie^od how to do this , and what kind of dwel- 
ling to make l whether I ihould make me a cave 
in the esuttih , or a tent upon the earth ; and , in 
(hort , I refolved upon both : the manner and 
Uefcription of Vi' hich it may not he improper tor 
give.anafiCOUi!it* 

I ioon Jburid theplace I was in would not do 
&>x my seltkment, particularly becaufe it was 
upon a low moorifli ground near the fea , and I 
believed would not be wholefome, and more 
piarticulaxly 5 becaufe theie wasj no water ncaj 
itVsQ I refolved to find a more healthy and more 
^mivenieRt: fpot: of ground. 

I confulted feveral thbigs in my fituation , 
whicfe I, icHVKl would be proper for me v firft , 
health and freCh water -^ fecondly , flielter from 
the heaH>f the fun^ thirdly^feaiarity from rave- 
nous ciieatur^Si, whethermaai or beaSft; fourthly^ 
2L view to the fea^.thacifGod fentany (hip in 
fight , I might not loise-any advantage of my de- 
'byeraiibce, for which I was not willing to ban- 
luih my esxpectation. 

In feauchof^pUee proper for this., I found a 
little plain on thefide of arifinghill^whofe form 
toward* this(Utifepbinwas^ fteep asan houfe 
fide , SQ ttoct-optfiingrcouklcomedovvn upon me 
from thetop: onithe sid« of this rock there was 
an hoUow idiw:e , woma Etde.way^in , like the 



dbyGoOgI 



^^ 



e 



84 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

entrance or door of a cave , but there was not 
really any cave or way into the rock at all. 

Chi the flat of the green , juft before this hol- 
low place, I refolved to pitch my tent. This plain 
was not above an hundred yards broad , and 
about twice as long , and lay like a green before 
the door , and at the end of it defcended irregu- 
larly every way down into the low grounds by 
the fea-fide. It was on the N. N. V. fide of the 
hill , fo that it was fheltered from the heat every 
day, till it came to a "W. aijd by S. fun, or 
thereabouts , which in thofe countries is near 
the fetting. 

Previous to fetting up my tent, I drew an half 
circle before the hollow place , which took in 
about ten yards in it's femi diameter from the 
rock , and twenty yards in its diameter^om it's 
beginning and ending. 

In this half circlel pitched two rows ofilrong 
flakes , driving them into the ground till they 
flood very firm like piles ; thebiggeft end being 
out of the ground above five feet and an half, 
and fliarpened on the top: the two rows did not 
ftand above fix inches from one another. 

I then took the pieces of cable which I had cut 
in the fliip , and laid them in rows up6n one ano- 
ther, within the circle, between thofe two rows 
of flakes , up to the tc^ ; placing other flakes in 
the infide , leaning againft them , about two feet 
and a half high , like a fpur to a pofl ; and this 
fence was fo ftrong , that neither man nor beaft 
could get into it , or over it. This cofl me a^reat 

deal 



d by Google 



t)f llOBINSbN CRUSOE. 85 

^eal of time and labour , efpecially to cut the pi* 
ies in the w6od , bring them to their places , ana 
i3rive them into the earth. 

I made the entrance into this place hot by a 
door, but by a fliort ladder to go oVer the top ^ 
lirhich ladder , when I was in , I lifted over after 
tne; and fo I was completely fenced in, and for- 
tified, as I thought , from allthe world , and con- 
Tequeritly flept fecufe in the night , which other* 
Vife I could hot haVe defile : though , as it appea- 
led afterwards , there was ho heed of all this cau* 
tion againft enemies from whom I had appre* 
hended danget. 

' Into this fence , or fbrterefs , wfth infinite la-» 
bour , 1 tarried all my riches , all my provifi- 
bns , ammuhitioh , aha ftores ; and I made me a 
large tent alfo , to preferve me from the rains , 
Ihat ih one part of the year are very violent the- 
re. I made it double, viz. one fm^Uertent within^ 
•md one larger tent kbove it ; and covered the 
oppermoft part with a large tarpaulin , which I 
had faved among the /ails. 

And now 1 lay ho more for a tirfie ih the bed 
trhich i hadT^roUght oih ftiore , but in an ham- 
mock , which wa's ifideed a very good ohe , and 
Wlonged to the mate o'f the fliip. 

Into this tent I brought all my jirovifiohs j 
and every thing that would fpoil by tiie w^t ; 
and hiaving thus inclofed all my goods ,1 made 
lip the entrance , which till now I had left open , 
and fo paffedahd repaffed^ as 1 faid^ by a (hort 
iaddef. 

Vol I. IH . 



d by Google 



96 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

When I had done this , I began , to work my 
Wav into the rock , and bringing all the earth 
ana ftones that I dug down , and through my 
tent , I laid them up within my fence in the na- 
ture of a terrace, fo that it raifed the ground wi- 
thin about a foot and a half; and thus I made a 
cave juft behind my tent , which ferved me like 
.:a cellar to my houfe. 

' It coft me much labour , and many days.^'be- 
*fore all thefe things were brought to perfection. 
At the fame time it happened , after I had laid, 
•my fcheme for fetting up the terit, and making 
the cave,thata ftorm of rain falling'fromathick 
dark cloud , a fudden flafh of lightning happe-^ 
tied , which was fucceeded by a violent clap of 
*thunder. I was not fo much furprized with the 
lightning , as I was with thethought which dar- 
ted into my mind as fwift as the lightning it- 
•felf — '* O my powder*! ''.My very heart funk 
within me , when Ithought , that at one blaftall 
my powder might be deftroyed ; on which , not 
my defence only., "but the providing my food ^ 
as I thought , entirely depended, I was nothing 
near so anxious dbout my own danger ; though^ 
had the powder-took fire , I fljould have never 
known who had hiu"t me. 

Sudhimpreflion did this make upon me, that 
after the ^ftorm was over, I laid aiide all my 
work , my building and fortifying , and applied 
myfelf to make bags and boxes to feparate my 
•powder , and to keep it a little and little in par- 
cels, in hopes, that whatever might come , it 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 87 

might not all take fire at once , and to keep i'o 
apart , that it fliould not be possible to make one 
part fire another. I finifhedthis work in about a 
fortnight : and I thinKmy powder, which in all 
t^as about 140 pounds weight, was divided in- 
to* no lefs than an hundred parcels . As to the barf 
rel that had been wet , I did wot apprehend any 
danger fi^om that , fo I placed a part of it in my 
new cave , which I called my kitchen ; and the 
reft I hidup and down in holes among the rocks , 
fo that no wet might come to it, marking very 
carefully where I laid ir^ 

In the interval of time while this was doing , 
I went out at leaft once every day with my gun, 
as well to divert myfelf, as to fee if I could kill 
any thing fit for food , and as near as I could to 
acquaint myfelf with what the Ifland produced.. 
The firft time I went out, Ifoon difcoveredthat 
there were goats inthellland ,.which wasa great 
fitisfaction to me ; but then it was attended with 
this misfortune , viz^. that they were fo fliy , fo 
ftibtle , and fo fwift of foot , that it was the moft 
diflScult thinginthe world to come at them; but 
I was not difcoutaged at this, not doubting buF 
I might now and then (hoot one , as it foon hap- 
pened \ for after I had found their haunts a little, 
I laid wait in this manner for them. I obferved , 
if they fa w me in the vallies , though they were 
tipon the rocks, they would run away as in a ter- 
rible fright; but if they were feeding in the val- 
Hes , and I was upon the rocks , they took no no-^ 
^.ceofme; from whence I concluded, that by 

H 2 



d by Google 



&8 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
the pofition of their optics , their fight was fo dl» 
lEected downward ^ th^t th^y did not readily fe^ 
objects that were ^bov« them. In confequence of 
this obfervation, I tookthe following method ; 
I always climbed the rock^ firft^to get above 
them, aii;Kj then had frequently a fajr mark, Th^ 
firft fhot I made among thefe creatures I kille4 
aflie-goat which ha4 alittle kid by he?:, to whom 
<he gave fuick , which grieved me heartily ; but 
when the old ojpe fell , the kid flood ftock-fHll 
by her tilll came apd took her up ; and not onl)f 
fb, but when Icarried theold one with me upon 
my fhoujders ^ the kid followed me quite to my 
ibclofure; upon which I laid down the dam^ 
and took the kid in my anns , wd carried i% 
Qver my psje in hopes to have bred it up tame i 
but it would not eat; £> I was forced to kill it ^ 
and eat it myfelf ; thefe two fupplied me with 
f efh a great vWle ^ for I eat fparingly , and fa-» 
yed my provifions ( my. bread eipeci^ly } ait 
much as I ppffibly could. 

Having now fijt^d my habitation , 1 found' il» 
^bfolutely necefTary to provide a place to maker 
g fire in , and fuel to burn ; and what I did for 
that , as alfo how I enjareed my cave ^ and what, 
conveniences Ims^de ; I ijiall give a fiill account^ 
of in it-s p^ace : but I mufl firft give fome little 
account of my^lf , and of my thoughts abou^ 
living, which it; may well. he fiippofed were 
not a few. 

I had a difmal profpect of my conditipn^fof ^ 
I WiLS not cafl away upon that Ifland w^t^iQyijk 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. Sp 

being driven , as is faid by a violent ftorm qui- 
te out of the courfe of our intended voyage , 
and a great way , viz. fome hundreds of lea- 
gues out of the ordinary courfe of the trade of 
mankind , I had great reafon to confider it as a 
determination of Heaven , that in this defo-ate 
place, and in this defolate manner, I ftiould end 
my lifc ; the tears would r\m plentifully down 
my (ace when I made thefe reflections : and fo*- 
metimes I expoftulated with myfelf , w hy Pro- 
vidence fhould thus corapleatly ruin it's creatu- 
res , and render them fo abfolutely miferable , 
fo abandoned without help, and fo entirely de- 
preffed, that it could hardly be rational to be 
thankful for fuch. a. life. 

But fomething always^ returned fwift upon 
me to check thefe thoughts, and to reprove me 
«md particularly one day walking with my gun 
in my handby the fea fide , I was very penfi- 
ve upon the fubject of my prefent condition , 
when reafon , as it were , put in', expoftulating 
with me the other way thus ; ^"Well , you are 
,, in a defolate condition , *tis tru€; bUt , pray , 
„ remember , where are the reft of ymi I Did 
,, notyou come eleven of you mto the boat ? 
J, Where are the ten> Why are not they fa- 
,y ved', and you toft ? Why are you fing?ed 
,, out ? It is better to^ be here or there ? ** Arid 
then I pointed to the fea. Alt evils are to be con- 
fidered with the good that Is in them , and with 
^hat worfe attended them^ 

it then occurred to me again, how well I 

H 3 



d by Google 



90 HFE AND ADVEi^TtfRES: 

was furniflied for my fubfiftence, and what 
w ould hgy^ be^n iny cafe , if it had nothappe-- 
^&^)^ which was an hundred thousand to pne,, 
that thi^fliif^ floated from the place where firft; 
(he ftruck , and was driven fo near tpthe flior^ 
that I h^d time to get all thefe things out of her. 
Vhat would bav^ been my cafe ^ if I had been 
to have lived in tfeie conditipn in which I at firft 
came on ftiore , without neceflaries of life , or 
any means tp fupply and procure them ? "Par-. 
ticularly , '* faid I aloud , { though to my felf ) * 
what could I have done without a gun; wi- 
„ thout ammunitioa; withoutany tools to ma- 
„ ke_ any thing , or to work with ? without 
„ cloaths 5 beading , a tent , or any manner of 
„ coverings ? ** And that now I had all thefe to> 
a^fu^cient quantity , and was in a fair way toi 
provide myfelf in fuch a manner , as to live wi-- 
thout my gun when my ammunition was fpent,^ 
fo that I had a tolerable view of fubfifting wi-, 
thout any want as long as Hived : fori confi-. 
dered from the beginning how llhould provide^ 
fpr the accidents that might happen, and. for, 
the time that was to come , eyen not only after 
my ammunition fliould be fpent, but even afte% 
my health or ftr^ngth fliould decay*. 

Iconfefs I bad not then entertained any no-». 
tion of my ammunition being deftroyed at one. 
blaft , I mean , my powder being b^own up by 
lightning ; and this made the thoughts of it.fur-t- 
jH-izing to me , wh^n it thundered and lig^h^v 
«^edju / ... 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.* pt 

And now , being to enter into a melancholy 
relation of a icene of (ilent life , fuch perhaps 
as was never heard of in the w orld before , I 
ihall take it from its beginning , and continue it 
in it^s ordier. It w as , by my account , the ^oth 
qf September , w hen in the manner as before ob«% 
ferved , I firft fet foot upon this horrid IHand , 
V hen die fon , being to us in it's autumnal equi- 
ijox , w as almoft juft over my head ; for I rec-* 
Ironed my felf , by obfervation , to be in the la-». 
titude of y degree^ 2a Qiinutes fouth of th^. 
line. 

After I had been there about ten or tvvelvo 
days y it came into my thoughts that I fliould 
lofe my reckoning of time for want of books ^ 
and pen and ink ^ and ihoii!d even forget the 
Sabbath-days from the working-days ; but ta 
prevent this., I cut it with my knife upon a lar-^. 
ge poft , in capital letters ; and making it into a* 
great crofs , I fet it up on the ihore where I firft 
landed , viz. ^ I came ** on (hor^ here the 30th 
q{ September, 1659. Upon the fides of this 
ft}uare poft I cut every day a notofi with my« 
knife, and every feventh day a^notch as.long^ 
again as th^ r^ft , and every firft of the montK 
as long again as that long one ; and thus I kq>t 
my calendar , or weekly , pipnthly , and year-*^ 
ly reckoning of tinje.. 

In the nexf place , w« are to obferve , thaf^ 
spneng th^ m^ny things, vhich 1 brought front 
Ae fliip in feveral voyages , ^ hich ( as before- 
lavottpi^cd) I mad§ tQ it.^ I gpt feveral tbioj?. 



d by Google 



»•■ 



pa LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

of lefs value, butnotaU lefs ufeful tome, which 
I omitted fetting do^n before; as in particu- 
lar , pens , ink , and paper, feveral parcels in 
the captain's , mate's , gunner's, and carpenter's 
keeping, three or four compaffes, ibme ma* 
thematical inftruments , dials , perfpectiyes 
charts, and books of navigation, all which I 
huddled together , whether I might want them 
or no; alfo I found three very good bibles ,, 
which came to me in my cargo from England ^ 
and which I had packed up among my things : 
fome Portugueze books alfo , and among them 
two or three Popifh prayer-books , and feve- 
ral other books , all which I carefiilly fecured. 
And I muft not forget that we had in the fliip- 
a dog and t^o cats , of whofe eminent hiftory 
i muft have occafion to fey fbmething in it's 
place ; for I carried both the cats with me ; 
and as for the dog, he jumped out of the ihip, 
and fwam to me the day after I went on ftiore 
with my firft cargo, and was a trufty iervant 
to me many years ; I wanted nothing that he 
could fetch me, nor any company ^lat he- 
could make up to me; I only \i anted to. have 
him. talk to me , but that be could not do. 
As I obferved before , I foilnd pen , ink , and 
paper , and I husbanded them ta the utmoft ; 
and w hile my ink laft^d , I kept things very 
exact , but after that v as gone , 1 could not; for 
I could not make ink , by any. means I could 
devife. 
Aad this put m^m mind t^ I wanted manjr 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 93 

things ^ notwithilanding all Ihad amafled togc-* 
ther ; and of theie , this of ink was one ; as aU 
fo a fpade , pick-axe , ^nd fhovel , to dig or re- 
move the earth ; needles , pins , and thread. A$ 
fcM" linen , I fbon learned tp >vant that wthout 
much difficulty. 

This want of tools made every work I did go 
on heavily , and as it was near a whole year be*- 
fore I had entirely finished my little pale , or 
furrounded habitation ; the piles or (lakes ^ 
which were as heavy as I could well lift , were 
a long time in cutting and preparing in th« 
woods , and more by far in bringing home ; fok 
4iat I fpent fometimes two days in cutting and 
bringing home one of thofe pofls , and a third 
day in driving it into the ground ; for w hich 
purpofe I got a heavy piece of wood at firft ^ 
but ^t laft bethought my felf of one of the iroii 
crows , which however , though I found 9 it 
yet made driving thofe pofts or piles very labo-^ 
fious and tedious work.. 

But what need I have been concerned at the 
tedfoufhefs of any thing I had to do, feeing I 
had time enough to do it in ! Nor had I any o^ 
ther employment,, if that bad been over, at 
least that I could foref^e , except ranging the is-i 
landt to feek for food , which I did 9iore or lef^ 
^very day. 

I now began ferioufly to cpnfider my con-^ 
dition , and the circumflaRces I was reduced to ,, 
andl drew up the flate of my affairs in u ritmg ^ 
PQtfd muqh tQ leave thern to any that were t0 



d by Google 



94 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

come after me , ( for I was like to have but few 
heirs ) as to deliver my thoughts from daily 
pouring upon them?,. and afflicting my mind ; 
and as my reafon began now to matter my des- 
pondency , I comforted myfelf as well as I 
could , and fo fet die good againft the evil , that 
I might have fomething to diftinguifli my cafe 
from a worfe ; and I ftated it very impartially ^ 
like debtor and creditor , ( the comfort I en- 
joyed , againft the miferies I fufFered ) thus — 



EVIL. 

I am caft upon an hor- 
rible defolate Ifland; 
void of all recovery. 

I am fingled out , as 
it were, from all the 
world , to be mifera- 
ble. 

I am divided from 
mankind , a folitary 
one banifhed from hu- 
man fociety . 

I have no cloaths to 
cover me. 

I am without defen- 
ce or means to refift 
any violence of man or 
beaft. 

I have no foul to 
fpeak to , or relieve me. 



GOOD. 

Biit I am alive , slnd 
no drowned , as all my 
fliip's company was. 

But I am fingled out 
from all thefhip*s crew, 
to be fpared from death* 

ButI am not ftarved, 
and perifhing on a bar- 
ren place , affording no 
fuftenance. 

But I am in a hot cli- 
mate , where they are 
not wanted. 

But I am caft on an 
Ifland where I fee nei- 
ther men nor wild-be- 
ast to hurt me. 

But enough to fupp^y 
my wants , as long as I 
live. 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 95 

Upon the whole , here w as an undoubted 
teftimony , that there was fcarce any condition 
in the world Co miferable , but there was fome- 
thing negative , or fomething pofitive , to be 
thankful in it; and let this ftand as a direction 
from the experience ofthemoftmiferableofall 
conditions in this world, that we may always 
find in it fomething to comfort ourfelves from^ 
and to kt , in the ^fcription of good and evil , 
on the credit fide of the account. 

Having now brought my mind a little to re- 
lifti my condition , aijd given over looking out 
to fea, in hopes of obferving a fhip; I fay , gi- 
•ving over thefe things I began to apply my {elf 
to accomodate my way of living , and to ma- 
ke things as eafy to me as I could. 

I have already defcribed my habitation , 
which was a tent under the fide of a rock, fur- 
rounded w ith a ftrong pale of pofl:s and cables , 
but I might now rather call it a wall ; for I rai- 
fed a kind of ^vall up againft it of turfs , about 
two feet thick on the outfide ; and after fome 
time , f I think it was a year and an half ) I 
ralfed rafters from it , leaning to the rock , and 
thatched or covered it with boughs of trees , 
and fuch things as I could get to keep out the 
rain , which 1 found at fome times of the year 
very violent. , ' . 

.1 have already obferved ho-.v I brougfit all 
my goods into this pale , and into the cave 
which I had made behind me ; but I muft ob- 
ferve too , that , at firft , this was a confiifed 



d by Google 



^8 Life and Ai5VENtUR£S 

heap of goods, which, as they lay in nd 6f* 
der, fo they took up all my place ; I had no 
toom to turn myfelf , and therefore let about 
enlarging my cave, by wofkirlg farther into the 
^arth; for it was a lopfe fandy rock, which 
yielded eafily to the labour I beflrowed On it. 

When I found myfelf pretty fafe as to beafti 
©f prey; I worked nde-waysto the right-hand 
into the rOCk ; tmd then turning to the right 
again , worked quite out , and made my door 
to come out to the out-fide of my pale or for* 
tification* 

This gave nfie iibt only to egrefs and regrefs ,' 
as it was a back-way to my tent, and to my 
ftore-houFe , but alfo room to flow my goods. 

And now I began to apply myfelf to make 
Aich neceflary things as I found I moft wanted ^ 
particulafly a chair and a t^ible ; for , without 
theie ^ I vas not able to enjoy the few comforts 
I had in the world ; I could not write or eat , 
or do feveral things , with fo inuch pleafUre > 
without a table. 

Accordingly I went to -work; and here I 
muft obferve , that as reafon is the fubftance 
and original of the mathematics , fo , by ftating 
and fquaring eVery thing by teafon , and by ma* 
king the moft rational judgment of things , eve- 
ry man may be , in time , matter of every me* 
chanic art. I had never handled jf tool in my 
life , and yet in time , by labour , application ^ 
and contrivance , I found at laft that I wanted 
nothing but I could have made it , elpecially if 

t ha4 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 97 

I had had tools; however, I made d)undance 
t)f things even without tools ,and fome with no 
more tools dian jift adze and an hatchet , which 
perhaps were never made that way before, ani 
that with infinite labour. For example •, if I 
wanted atoard , I had no other way but to cut 
down a tree , fet it on an edge before me , and 
hew it flat on either fide widi my axe , till I 
had brouglit it to be as diin as aplank , and then 
tlub it fmooth with nty adze ; it is true , by this 
method I could make but one board out of a 
whole tree ; but this I had no remedy for but 
patience , any more than I had for the prodi- 
gious deal of timeand labour which it took mc 
up to make a plank or Ijoard ; but my time or 
labour was little worth , and fo it was as well 
employed one way as another^ 

However , I made me a table and a chair , as 
I otferved before, in the firft place , and this I 
did out of the fliort pieces of boards I brought 
-on my raft from the fhip ; but when I had 
wrought out fome boards , I made large (hel- 
ves of the breadth of a foot and an half, one* 
over another , all along one fide of my cave , 
to lay my tools, nails, and iron-work on ; 
and , in a word , to feparate every thing at lar- 
ge in their places , that I might eafily com^ at 
them : alfo I drove pieces into the rock , to hang 
my guns , and all things that would hang up. 

By thefe means my cave looked like a gene- 
ral magazine of all neceflary articles ;andl had 
every thing fo ready at hand , that it was a great 
VgL L I 



^ 



d by Google 



98 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

pleafure to me to fee all my goods in fuch or- 
der , and efpecially to find my ftock of all ne- 
Ceflfaries fo great. 

And now it was when I began to keep a jour- 
nal of every day's employment ; for , indeed , 
at firft I was in too much hurry , and not only 
an hurry as to labour , but in too much dis- 
compofure of mind , and my journal would 
have been full of many dull things. For exam- 
ple ; I muft have faid thus r *^ September the 
„ ^oth , after I got to ftiore , and had efcaped 
„ drowning , inf?:ead of being thankful to God; 
„ for my deliverance, having at firft vomited 
„ a great quantity of falt-water , which was 
^ gotten in to my ftomach , and recovering my- 
„ felf a little, I ran about the fhore , wringing 
„ my hands , and beating my head and face , 
„ exclaiming at my mifery , and crying out , 
„ I was undone , undone ! till , tired and faint, 
„ I was forced to lie down on the ground to 
„ repose , but durft not fleep for fear of being 
;, devoured* 

„ Some days after this , and after I had been 
„ ifti board the fhip , and had got all I could 
„ out of her , yet I could not forbear getting up 
„ to the top of a little mountain , and looking 
„ out to fea , in hopes of feeing a fhip ; then fan- 
^, cy at a vaft diftance I fpied a fail , pleafed 
„ myfelf with the hopes of it , and then after 
^, looking fteadily till I was almoft blind, lo- 
„ fe it quite , and fit down and weep like a 
„ child, and thus increafe my mifery by my 
,, folly. ^ 



ft 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, g^ 

Buthaving gotover thefe things in fome mea- 
fure , and having fettled my houlhold furniture 
and habitation , made me a table and a chair ^ 
and all as handfome about me as I could , I be-r 
gan , I fay , to keep my journal , of which I 
fliall here give you the copy (though in it will 
be told all theie particulars over again ) as long 
as it lafted : for at length having no moje ink , 
I was forced to leave it off. 

JOURNAL. 

September 30th , 1 659. i , poor miferabie 

Robinfon Crufoe , being fliipwrecked during a 
dreadful ftorm in the offing , came on fliore in 
this difmal, unfortunate iSand, which I call , 
The iiland of Defpair : all thereft of the ihip's 
comnany being drowned , and myfelf almoft 
deaa. 

All the reft of the day I fpent in afflicting 
myfelf atthe difmal circumftancesi was brought 
to ; viz, I had neither food , houfe , cloath , 
weapon, or place to fly to : and , in deipair of 
any relief, raw nothing but death before me ; 
cither that I fhould be devoured by wild-beafts , 
murdered by favages , or ftarved to death for 
want of food. At the approach of night I flept 
in a tree for fear of wild-creatures , but flept 
foundly , though it rained all night* 

October i • In the morning , I faw , to mj 
great furprize , the fliip had floated with the 
high tide , and was driven on fliore again much 

1 2 



d by Google 



100 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

nearer the ifland; which , as it was fome comi- 
fort on the one hand , ^ for feeing her fit upright 
and not broken in pieces , I hoped , if the wind 
abated , I might get on board , and get fome 
food and neceffarics out of her for my relief; 
( fo, on the other hand, it renewed my grief 
at the lofs of my comrades , who , I imagined , 
if we had all ftaid on board , might have favea 
the (hip , or at leaftthat they would not have 
been all drowned , a$ they were ; and that , had 
the men been faved , tve might , perhaps , have 
built us a boat out of the ruins of the (hip , to 
have carried us to fome other part of the world, 
I fpent great part of this day , in perplexing my- 
felf on thefe things ; but at length, feeing die 
fliip almoft dry , I went upon the fand as near 
as I could , and then fwam on board. This day 
alfo continued rsuning , though with no wind 
at all. 

From the ift of October to the 24tbc All 
thefe days entirely fpent in different voyages 
to get all I could out of the fliip : which I brought 
on ftiore every tideof flood , upon rafts. Much 
rain also in the days , though with fome inter- 
vals of fair weather ; but , it feems , this was the, 
rainy feafon. 

October 24. t overfet my raft , and all the 
goods I had got upon it; but being in flioal wa- 
ter , and the things chiefly heavy , I recovered 
many of them when the tide was out. 

October 25. It rained all night and all day , 
withfome gufts of wind j during which time the; 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. loi 

(hip broke in pieces , the wind blowing a little 
harder than before, and was no more to be feen, 
except the wreck of her, and th^t only at low 
water. I fpent this day in covering ana fecuring 
the goods , which J had faved, thait the raiji 
might not fpoil them. 

October 26.rwalked about the fliore almoff 
all day , to find out a place to fix my habita- 
tion ; greatly concerned to fecure myfelf from 
any attack in the night , either from wildbeafts 
or men. To wards night 1 fixed upon a proper 
plac^ under a ro<:^ , and marked out a femicin- 
cle for my encampment , which I refolved to 
flxengthen with a work , wall, or fortification, 
made of double piles , lined within with cable ^ 
and without with turf. 

From the a6th to the 30th , I worked very 
hard to carrying all my goods to my new ha<- 
bitation , though fome part of the time it rained 
exceeding hard. 

The 31ft , in the morning , I went out into 
the ifland with my gu^ to fee for fome food , 
anddifcover the country ; when I killed a flie- 
goat,and her kid followed me home., which 
1 afterwards killed alfo , becaufe it would not 
feed. 

November i . I fet up my tent under a rock , 
and lay there for the firft night ,^ making it as 
large as I could , with flakes driven in to fwing 
my hammock upon. 

November 2. 1 fet upallmy chefts and bo- 
ards^ and the pieces of timber which made my 

; 1 3 



d by Google 



i02 LIFE AND ADVENTtJRES 
raft , and with them formed a fence round me^. 
a little within the place I had marked out for 
my fertiiicatian. 

November 3. 1 went out with my gun , and 
killed twa fowls like ducks ^ which were very 
good food. In the afternoon y went to work ta 
^ake me a tables 

November 4. This morning I began to or- 
der my times of work , of going out with my 
gun , time of deep , and time of diverfion; viz. 
every morning t walked out with my gun for 
two or three hours , if it did hot rain ;.dien em-- 
ployedmyfelf at work till abouteleven o'clock; 
then eat whati had to live on ; and from twelve, 
till two I lay down to fleep, the weather being 
excessive hot ; and then in the evening to work 
again : the working part of this day and the next 
•were whplly employed in making this table , 
for I was yet biJt a very forry workman , 
though time and neceflity made me a compleat: 
natural mechanic foon after , as I believe it: 
would do any one elfe* 

November 5. This day I went abroad wirfl^ 
my gun and my dog , and killed- a wild^-cat ^ 
her Ikin was pretty foft, but her flefh good for 
nothing : every creature I killed I took off the. 
fldns andpreferved them. Coming back by the 
fea-fhore , I faw many forts of fea- fowls with 
which I was unacquainted; but was forprized , 
and almoft frighted , with two or three feals ,, 
M'hich y w bile I was gazing at , not well kno- 
wing what they were , got into the fea, and es- 
caped Qie for that time*. 



Digitized by VjjOOQIc 



OF ROBINSOK CRUSOE. loy 

November 6. After my morning walk , f 
went to work with my table again, andfinif- 
bed it y though not to my liking : nor was it 
long before I learned to mend it.. 

November 7. Now it began to be fettled fair 
weather. The 7th, 8th, 9th, loth, and part 
of the 1 2th , ( for the 1 1 th was Sunday , ac^ 
cording to my reckoning ) I took wholly up» 
to make me a chair ,, and with fome difficulty 
brought it to a tolerable Oiape , but never to- 
pleafe me ; and even in the making I pulled it 
to pieces feveral times. Note. I foon neglected 
keeping Sundays ; for omitting my mark for 
them on my poft , I forgot which was which. 

November 13. This day it rained ,^ which 
Tcfrefliedme exceedingly^ and cooled the earthy 
but it was accompanied with terrible thunder 
and lightning , which frightened me dreadfully 
for fear of my powder. As foon as it was over. ^ 
I refolved to feparate my ftock of powder into^ 
as many little parcels as poffible , that it might 
not be in danger. 

November 14, 15, 16. Thefe three days I 
ipent in making little fquare chefts , or boxes ,, 
which might hold about a pound, or two pounds 
at moft , of powder ; and fo putting the pow-^ 
der in ,1 (lowed it in places ^ds fecure and re- 
mote from one another as poffible.. On one of 
thefe three days I killed a large bird that was; 
good to eat ^ but I kne v not what to call it. 

November i "• This day I began to dig ber- 
tiind my tent into the rock , to make room foir 



d by Google 



104 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

my farther conveni^ncy. Note. Three things I 
wanted exceedingly for this work , viz. a pick- 
axe , a fliovel , and a wheelbarrow or bafket : fo 
I defifted from my work , and began to confi- 
der how to fupply that want , and make me fo- 
me tools. As for the pick-axe , I made ufe of the 
iron-crows , which were proper enough , though 
heavy ; hut the next thing was a fliovel or fpa- 
de , this was fo abfolutely neceffary , that in- 
deed I could do nothing effectually without it ; 
but what kind of one to make , I knew not. 

November 1 8. The next day , in fearchiftg 
the woods , I found a tree of that wood , or lik^ 
it , which in the Brazils they call the iron- tree , 
for it's exceeding hardnefs : of this , vith great 
labour , and almoft fpoiling my axe , I cut a 
piece , and brought it home with great difficul- 
ty , for it was exceefding heavy. 

The exceffive hardnefs of the wood, and ha- 
ving no other way , made me a long wliiie upon 
this machine ; for I worked it effectually , by 
little and little , into the form of a fhovel or fpa- 
de, the handles exactly fhaped like ours in En- 
gland , only that the broad part , having no 
iron fhod upon it a bottom , it would not laft me 
fo long; however, it ferved well enough for 
the ufes which I had oCcafion to put it to ; but 
never was a fljovel , I believe , made after that 
fafhion , or fo long making. 

I was fliU deficient , for I wanted a bafket or 
a wheelbarrow ; a bafket I could not make by 
any means ^ having no fuch things as twigs that 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, lo^ 

vould bend to make wicker-'ware , at leaft none 
yet found out ; and , as to tlie wheelbarrow , I 
fancied I could make all but the wheel ; but that 
I had no notion of, neither did I know how 
to go about it ; befides , I had no poffible way 
to make iron gudgeons for the fpindle or axis 
of the wheel to run in , fo I gave it over ; and^ 
for carrying away the earth which I dug out 
of the cave , I made me a convenience like an 
hod , which the labourers carry mortar in when 
they ferve the bricklayers. 

This was not fo difficult to me as making 
the fliovel; and yet this , and die fliovel , and 
the attempt which I made in vain to make a 
wheelbarrow , took me up no lefs than foiur 
days •, I mean always , excepting my morning's 
walk with my gun , which I feldom failed ; and 
very feldom failed alfo of brinpng home fb* 
mething fit to eat. 

November 23. My other work having flood 
ftill , becaufe of my making thefe tools , when 
they were finifhea I went on; and working 
every day as my flrength and time allowed, 
I fpent eighteen days entirely in widening and 
deepening my cave , that it might hold my; 
goods commodioufly. 

Note. During all this time I worked to make 
this room or cave fpacious enough to accom- 
modate me as a warehouse or magazine , a kit- 
dien , a dining-room , and a cellar ; as for a 
lodging , I kept to the tent , except that fome- 
Umes in the wet feafon of the year, it rained 



d by Google 



io6 LIFE AND AD VENTURES 

fo hard , that I could not keep myfelf dry ; 
which caufed me afterwards to cover all my 
place within my pale with long poles in the 
form of rafters , leaning agalnft the rock , and ^ 
loading them with flags , and large leaves of 
trees , like a thatch. 

December i o. I began now to thinek my 
xave or vault finilhed , when on a fudden ( it 
Teems I had made it too large ) a great quan- 
tity of earth fell down from the top and one 
fide; fo much, that in fliort it frightened me, 
and not without reafon too ; for if I had been 
under it , I had never wanted a grave-digger,; 
upon this difafter I had a great deal of work to 
do over again ; for I had the loofe earth to 
carry out ; and , which was of more impor- 
tance , I had the cieling to prop up, fo that I 
might be fure no more would come down. . 

December 1 1 . This day I went to work 
with it accordingly , and rgot two fhoars or 
polls , pitched upright to the top , with two 
pieces of board acrofs over each poft : this I 
finifhed the next day ; and fetting more pofts 
up with boards , in about a week more I had 
the roof fecured , and the pofts , ftanding in 
rows , ferved me for partitions to part off my 
houfe, 

December 17. From this day to the 20th, 
I placed (helves , and knocked up nails in the 
pofts , to hang every thing up that could be 
hung up ; and now I began to be in fome or- 
der within doors. 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. J07 

December 20. Now I carried every thing 
into the cave , and began to fiirnifli my houfe , 
and fet up fome pieces of board like a drefler , 
to order my victuals upon ; but board began 
tol>e A^ery fcarce with me ; alfo I made me 
another table, 

December 24. Much rain all night and all 
^ay ; no ftirring out. 

December 25- Rain all day. 

December 26. No rain , and the earth much 
cooler than before, and pleafanter. 

December 27. Killed a young goat, and 
lamed another, fo that I catchedit, and led 
it home in a feing; when I had it home , I 
bound and fplintered up it's leg , which was 
broke. — A*. B, I took fuch care of it , that 
it lived , and the leg. grew well , and as ftrong 
as ever ; but by nurfing it fo long , it grew 
tame , and fed upn^ jhe little green at my door, 
and would not go away. This was the ftrft 
time that I entertained a thought of breeding 
up fome tame creatures , that I might have food 
when my powder and fliot was all fpent. 

December 28 , 29 , 30. Great heats , and no 
breeze; fo that there was no ftirring abroad , , 
except in the evening for food. This time I 
fpent in putting all my things in order within 
^oors. 

January i , 1660. Very hot ftill; but I went 
abroad early and late , with my gun , and lay 
ftill in the middle of the day : tWs evening , 
going farther into the vallies which lay to- 



d by Google 



to8 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

wards the centre <rf the ifland , I found there 
was plenty of goats , though exceeding fliy , 
and hard to come at ; however , I refolved to 
try if I could not bring my dog to hunt them 
-down. 

January 2. Accordingly , the next day 1 
>ivent out with my dog , and fet him upon the 
goats ; but I was miftaken , for they all faced 
about upon the dog , and he knew his dan- 
ger too veil, for he would not come near them* 
January 3. I l>egan my fence or wall ; 
which , being ftill jealous of my being attac- 
ked by fomebody , I refolved to make very^ 
thick and ftrong. 

N. B. This wall being defcribed before , I 
purpofely omit what was faid in the Jour- 
naL: it is fufficient to obferve , that I was 
no lefs time than from the 3d of January 
to the 14th of April , working, finifhing, 
and perfecting this wall , though it was no 
more thanabouttwenty-four yards in length, 
being an half circle from one place in the 
rock to another place about eight yards fi-om 
it ; the door ot the cave being in the centre 
behind it. 

All this time I worked very hard , the rainS 
hindering me many days , nay , fometimes 
weeks together : but I thought I fliould never 
be perfectly fecure till this wall was finiflied : 
and it is fcarce credible what inexpreflible la- 
bour every thing was done with , efpecially 
the bringing piles out of thp wood , and dri- 
ving 



d by Google 



Of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 109 

ving them into the ground ; for I made them 
much bigger than I needed to have done. 

"When this wall was finifhed , and the out- 
fide double fenced with a turf-wall , raifed up 
clofe to it , I perfuaded myfelf , that if any 
people were to come aflwre there , they would 
not perceive any thing^like an habitation : and 
it is very \i ell I did fo , as may be obferved 
hereafter upon a very remarkable occafion. 

During this time, I went into the woods 
for game every day , when the rain permitted 
me, and maae frequent difcoveries in thefe 
walks of fomethingor other to my advantage; 
particularly , I found a kind of wild pigeons , 
which build not as wood-pigeons in a tree , 
but rather as houfe-pigeons in the holes of the 
rocks ; and taking fome young ones , I endea- 
voured to breed tl;em up tame , and did fo ; 
tut when they grew older, they flew all away, 
which perhaps was at firfl for want .of feeding 
them , for I had nothing to give them; ho\v- 
ever, I frequently found their nefk, ^nd got 
their young ones , which were good to eat. 

And now , in the management of my hous- 
hold affairs , I found myfelf wanting in many 
things , which I thought at firfl: it was impoi^ 
fible for me to make , and indeed fo it was : 
for inftance , I could never make a calk to be 
hooped ; I had a fmall rundlet or two , as I 
obferved before , but! could never arrive to the 
capacity of making one of them^ though I 
fpent many weeks about it ; I could neither put 

Vol. I. K 



d by Google 



no LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

in the heads, nor join the ftaves fo true to one 
another , as to make them hold water ; fo I 
gave that alfo over. 

In the next place , I was at a great lofs for 
candles ; fo that as foon as it was dark , which 
was generally by feven o'clock , I was obli- 
ged to go to bed. I remembered the lump of 
bees-wax with which I made candles in my 
African adventure ; but I had none of that now. 
The only remedy I had was , that when I kil- 
• led a goat , I made tallow of the fat , and with 
a little difli made of clay , which I baked in 
the fun , to which I added a wick of fome 
oakum , I made me a lamp ; and this fiimiihed 
me with light , though not a clear fteady light 
like a candle. 

In the midft of my labours rt happened, that, 
rummaging my things , I found a little bag , 
which, as I hinted before, had been filled with 
com for feeding poultry, not for this voyage, 
but before , as I fuppole , when the (hip carrie 
from Lisbon; what little remainder of corn had 
been in the bag was all devoured by the rats , 
and 1 faw nothing in the bag but hufks and 
duft ; and Toeing willing to have the bag for 
fome other ufe , ( I think it was to put powder 
in , when I divided it for fear of the lightning , 
or fome fuch ufe) I fhook the hulks of com 
out of it on one fide of my fortification under 
the rock. 

It was a little before the great rains juft now 
mentioned, thati threw this ftufFaway, taking 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, in 

no notice of any thing , and not fo much as 
remembering that I had thrown any thing the- 
re ; when about a month after , or thereabouts, 
I few fome few ftalks of fomething green (hoo- 
ting upon the ground , which I fancied might 
be fome plant I had not feen; but I was fur- 
prized , and perfectly aftonifhed , when , after 
a little longer time , I faw about ten or twelve 
ears come out , which were perfect green bar- 
ley J of the fame kind as our European, nay , 
as our Englifli barley. 

It is impoflible to exprefs the aftonifliment 
and confufion of my thoughts on this occa- 
fion : I had hitherto acted upon no religious 
foundation at all; indeed I had very few no- 
tions of religion in my head, nor had enter- 
tained any fenfe of any thing th2it had befallen 
me, otherwife than as a chance, or, as we 
lightly fay, What pleafes God; without Cq 
much as enquiring into the end of Providence 
in thefe things, or his ordering and governing 
all events in the world : but after I faw barley 
grow there , in a climate which I knew was 
not proper for corn , and efpecially that I knew 
not how it came there , it ftartled me ftran- 
gely , and I began to fuggeft that God had mi- 
raculoufly caufed this grain to grow without 
any help of feed fown , and that it was fo di- 
rected , purely for my fuftenance in that wild 
and miferable place. 

This reflection fo affected me , that it brought 
tears from my eyes , and I began to blefs my- 

K % 



d by Google 



112 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

felf, that fuch a prodigy of Nature fhould hap- 
pen^ upon my account; and this was the more 
ftrange to me, becaufe I faw near it ftill , all 
alongp by the fide of the rock , fome other 
ftraggling ftalks , which proved to be ftalks of 
rice , and which I knew ^ becaufe I had {ecn 
it grow in Afi*ica when I was afliore ther^. 

I not only thought thefe the pure produc- 
tions of Providence for my fupport ; but , not 
doubting that there was no more in the place, 
I went all over that part of the Mand where I 
had been before , looking in every comer, and 
imder every rock , to fee for more of it , but 
I could pot find any : at laft it occurred to my 
thoughts , that I hadfliaken the bag of chickens 
meat out in that place, and the wonder began 
to ceafe ; andf muft confefs, my religious thank- 
fiilnefs to God's providence began to abate toa, 
upon difcovering that all this was nothing but 
what was common; though loughtto have been 
as thankftil for fo ftrange and unforefeen an mci- 
dent as if it had been miraculous ; for it "was 
really the work of Providence , as to me , that 
fhould order or appoint,that ten or twelve grains 
of corn fliould remain unfpoiled , C when the 
rats had deftroyed all the reft : ) as if it had been 
dropped from Heaven : as alfo that I fliould 
throw it out into that particular place , where, 
being in the fliade of an high rock , it fprang up 
immediately; whereas, had I thrown it any 
where elfe at that time, it might have been burnt 
and deftroyed. 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 113 

I carefully faved the ears of this corn, you 
may be fure^ in their feafon , which was about 
the end of June : and , laying them up carefully , 
I refolved to fow them again , hoping they 
might , in proper time , produce a fufficient quan - 
tity to fupply me with bread ; but it was not till 
the fourth year that I would allow myfelf the 
leaft grain of this com to eat , and even then but 
fparingly • I lofl all that I fowed the firfl feafon , 
by not obferving the proper time; for 1 fowed it 
jufl before the dry feafon , fo that it never came 
up at all , at leafl not as it would have done had 
I not made this unfortunate miftake. 

Befides this barley , there were twenty or 
thirty flalks of rice , which I preferved with the 
fame care , and whofe ufe was of the fame kind , 
or to the fame purpofe , viz. to make me bread , 
or rather food ; for I found ways to cook it up 
without baking, though I did that alfo after fo- 
me time. But to return to my Journal. 

I worked exceffive hard three or four months , 
to get my wall done ; and the 1 4th of April I 
clofed it up , contriving to get within , not by a 
door , but by a ladder , that there might be no 
iign on the outfide of my habitation. 

April 16. 1 finiflied the ladder; fo I went up 
with the ladder to the top , and then pulled it up 
after me , and let it down on the inflde : this was 
.a compleat inclofure to me; for within I had 
room enough , and nothing could come at me 
from v\ ithout , unlefs it could firfl mount my 
wajl. • 

K3 



d by Google 



114 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

The very next day after this wall \j as finis* 
hed jIhad almoft haaali my lahouB overthro w n 
at once , and myfelf killed. The cafe >» as thus : 
as I wasbufy behind my tent , juft at the entran- 
ce inta my cave , I was terribly frightened with: 
a fnoft dreadful furprizing thing indeed !' for all 
on a fudden I found the earth came tumbling; 
down from the roof of my cave, and from the 
edge of the hill over my head; and two of the 
pofts I had kt up in the cave cracked in a tre- 
mendous manner : I was heartily frightened ,, 
but formed no judgment ofwhat really vas the 
caufe ; only thinking that the top of my cave 
was falling in , ^ fome of it had done before ; 
and for fear I fhould be buried. in it, I ran for- 
wards tamy ladder; and, not thinking myfelf 
fafe there neither , Igot over my wall for fear of 
the pieces of the hill which I expected might roll 
down upon me. I no fooner fet my feet on the 
ground, thani plainly faw it wasa terrible earth- 
quake ; for the ground l flood on fhook three ti^ 
mts , at about eight minutes diftance , with three 
fuch fhocks as would have overturned the flron- 
geft building that could be fuppofed to have 
ftood upon theearth ; and a great piece of the top^ 
of the rock , which iloodrabout halfa mile fronr 
me next the fea , fell down with fuch a terrible 
noife , as I never heard in all my life ; I percei- 
ved alfo the fea was put into violent motion by 
it ; and I believe the fhocks were ftronger under 
the water than on the Ifland. 

I was fo s^az^ at this phenomenon ^ having 



d by Google 



' OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, lig 

never felt the like , or difcourfed ^ ith any one 
that had , that I was Hke one dead or ftupified* ; 
and the motion of the earth made me exceeding 
fick, butthe noife of the falling of the rock awa- 
ked me , as it ^w ere; and rouzing me from the 
ftupified condition I v as in , filled me with hor- 
ror , and I thought of nothing then but the hill 
fellinguponmy tent and all my houfliold goods, 
and burying all at once ; and thi^ funk my very 
foul within me a fecond time. 

After the third (hock was over , and I felt na 
more for fome time, I began to take courage ; 
and yet I had not heart enough to get over my 
wall again, for fear of being buried alive : but 
ftill fat upon theground , greatly caftdo^n, and 
difconfolate , not knowing what to do. All this 
"whilelhadnottheleaftferious religious thought^ 
nothing but the common — *' Lord have mer- 
cy '* upon me ! and when was it over , that went 
away too. 

W hile I fat thus , I found the atmofphere over- 
caft , and it grew cloudy , as if it would rain ; 
and , in lels than half an hour , it blew a moff 
dreadftil huricane of wind ; the fea was all on a 
fudden covered wih foam and froth , the (hore 
with the breach of the water , and the trees were 
torn up by the roots. This continued about three 
hours, when it began to abate; and in two hours 
more it was calm , with a heavy fall of rain. 

All this while I fat upon the ground , very 
much terrified and dejected , when on a fuddisn 
•it occured to my mind that theie winds and rains 



d by Google 



ii6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

being the confequence of the earthquake , the 
earthquake itfelf was fpent and over , and I might 
venture into my cave again. With this thought 
my fpirits began to revive , and-the rain helping 
alio to perfuade me , I went in and fat me down 
in my tent ; but the rain was fo violent, that my 
tent was ready to be beaten down with it, and 
I was forced to go into my cave , though very 
* much afraid and uneafy for fear it fliouldfall on 
my head. 

This violent rain forced me to a new work , 
viz. to cut a hole through my new fortification , 
like a fink , to let off the water. After I had been 
in my cave , I found ftill more fhocks of the 
earthquake follow , I began tobe morecompo- 
fed; and, to fupport my fpirits , which indeed 
wanted it very much, I went to my little ftore, 
and took a fmall quantity of rum , which I did 
then and at other times when I thought it effen- 
tially neceffary , knowing I could have no more 
after that was gone. 

It continued raining all that night , and great 
part of the next day , fo that I could not ftir 
abroad : but my mind being more compofed , I 
began to confider what I had beft to do ; thin- 
king , that if the ifland wasfubject to these earth- 
quakes , there would be no living for me in a ca- 
ve, but Imiifl: confider of building me fome little 
hut in an open place , which I might furround 
with a wall , as I had done here , and thereby 
make myfelf fecure fi-om wild beafts or men ; 
concluding, if I (laid where I was, I ihould 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRrUSOE. 117 

certainly , -one time or other be buried alive* 

In confequence of thefe thoughts , I refolved 
to mbve my tent from the place where it flood , 
which was juft under the hanging precipice of 
the hill , andwhichjifitfhouldbefhaken again, 
would certainly fell upon my tent. And I ^rtt 
the two next days, being the njth and 20th of 
April , in contrivingwhere, andhow to remove 
my habitation. 

The fear of being fwallo wed up alive greatly 
difturbed tny mind , fo that I had very little re- 
frelhment from fleep ; the apprehenfions of lying 
abroad without any fence were almoft equal to 
it : but ftill , when I looked about, and faw how 
every thing was put in order , how well concea- 
led I was , and how fafe^from danger , it made me 
unwilling to remove. 

In the mean time it occurred to me , that it 
would require a vaft deal of time to do this , and 
that I muft be contented to ruAthe hazard where 
I was , till I had formed a camp for myfelf , and 
had fecured it fo as to remove to it. With this re- 
folution I compofed myfelf for a time, and then 
refolved to go to work with all fpeed to build me 
a wall with piles , cables , etc. in a circle , as be- 
fore , and (kt my tent up in it when it was finis- 
hed ; but that 1 would venture to ftay where I 
was , till it was finiflied and fit to remove to. 
This was the 2 1 ft. 

April 22. The next morning I began to con- 
sider of means to put this refolve into execution : 
but I was at a great lofs about my tools : I had 



d by Google 



ii8 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

three large axes , and abundance of hatchets ^ ^ 
(^ for we carried the hatchets for traffic with the 
Indians ; ) but with much chopping and cutting 
knotty hard wood , they were all full of notches, 
and dull ; and thoughl hadagrindflone , I could 
not turn it and grind my tools too. This coft me 
as much thought as a ratefman would have bes- 
towed upon a grand point of politics , or a judge 
upon the life and death of a man. At length I 
contrived a wheel with a firing to turn it with 
my foot , thatlmight have both my hands at li- 
berty. Note , I had not feen any mch thing in 
England , or at leaft to take notice how it was 
done : though fince , I have obferved it was ve- 
ry common there ; befides that , my grindftone 
was very large and heavy. This machine coft 
me a full week's work to bring it to perfection. 

April 28 ^ fip. Thefe two whokdays I took 
up in grinding my tools . my machine for tt^^ 
ning my grindftone performmg very well. 

April 30. Having perceived my bread had 
been low a great while , I now took a furvey of 
it , and reduced myfelf to one bi£cuit-cake a 
day. 

May I • In the morning , looking towards the 
fea-fiae , the tide being low , I faw ifomething lie 
on the fhore bigger than ordinary , and it loo- 
ked like a cafk. When I came to it , I found a 
fmall barrel , artd two or three pieces of the 
(hip , which were driven on fhore by the late 
huricane ; and looking towards the wreck itfelf, 
I thoughtit feemed to li^ higher out of the wa^r 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON C'RUSOE. 119 

than it ufed to do, I examined the barrel which 
•was driven on fhore , and found it was a barrel 
of gun-powder , but it hadtalcen\« ater , and the 
powder was caked as hard as a ftone : however , 
I rolled it farther on the fliore for the prefent, and 
went upon the fands , as near as I could to th^ 
wreck of the (hip , to look for more. 

When I came to the (hip , I found it ftrangely 
removed. The fore-caftle, which lay before bu- 
ried in fand, was heaved up at leaft fix feet ; and 
the fiern , which was broken to pieces , and par- 
ted from the reft by the force of the fea , foon 
after I had left runlmaging of her , was tofled as 
It were up , and caft on one fide ; and the fand 
was thrown fo high on that fide next the ftern , 
that though there was a great place of water be- 
fore , fo that I could not come within a quarter 
of a mile of the wreck without fwimming , I 
could now walk quite up to her when the tide 
was out : I was furprized with this at firft , but 
foon concluded it muftbe done by the earth- 
quake ; and as by this violence the fhip was mo- 
re broken open than formerly , fo many things 
came daily on fliore which the fea had loofened, 
and which the winds and water rolled by de- 
grees to the land. 

This wholly diverted my thoughts from the 
defign of removing my habitation ; and I bufied 
myftlf that day efpecially , in fearching whether 
I could make anyway into the ftiip; but I found 
nothing was tobe expected of thatkind , for that 
all theinfidc ofthefliip was choaked up with 



d by Google 



I20 LIFE AND ADVENTUREiJ 

i 

fand ; however , as I had learned not to defpait 
of any thing , I refolved to pull every thing to 
pieces that 1 could of the fhip , concluding , that 
whatever I could get from her would be of fome 
ufe or other to me. 

May 3. 1 began with my faw , and cut a piece 
of a beam through , which I thought held fome 
of the upper part, or quarter-deck together; and 
when I had cut it through , I cleared away the 
fand as well as I could , from the fide which lay 
higheft ; but the tide coming in , I was obliged 
to give it over for that time. 

May 4. 1 went a fifhing , but caught not one 
filh that I durft eat of, till I was weary of my 
fport ; when , juft going to leave off , I caught a 
young dolphin. I had made me a long line of fo- 
me rope-yarn , but I had no hooks : yet I fre- 
quently caught fifli enough , as much as I cared 
to eat; all which I dried in the fun ,and eat them 
dry. 

May 5. "Worked on the wreck , cut another 
beam afunder , and brought three great planks 
off from the decks , which I tied together , and 
made fwim on fliore when the tide of flood 
came on* 

May 6. Worked on the wreck , got feveral 
iron bolts out of her , and other pieces of iron- 
work ; worked very hara , came home much ti- 
red , and had thoughts of giving it over. 

May 7. Went to the wreck again, with an 
intent not to wofk ; but found the weight of the 
wreck had broken itfelf down , the beams being 

cut, 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. lit 

Gut , that feveral pieces of the fliip feemed to lie 
loofe ^ and the infide of the hold lay fo open , 
that I could fee into it , but it was almoftfull of 
water and fand. 

May 8. "Went to the wreck , and carried an 
iron-crow to wrench up the deck , which lay 
now quite clear of the water or fand ; I wren- 
ched open two planks , and brought them on 
(hore alfo with the tide. I left the iron crow in 
the wreck for the next day. . 

May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the 
crow made way into the body of the wreck , 
and felt feveral ca{ks , and loofened them with 
the crow , but could not break them up ; I felt 
alfo a roll of Englifli lead, and could ftir it, 
but it was too heavy to move. 

May 10, 11,12, 13, 14. Wenteveryday 
to the wreck, and got a great many pieces of 
timber and boards, or planks , and two or three 
hundred weight of iron. 

May 15. 1 carried two hatchets , to try if I 
could not cut a piece off the roll of lead, by 
placing the edge rfone hatchet againft the lead, 
and driving with the other •, but as it lay about 
a foot and an half in the water , I could not 
make any blow to drive the hatchet. 

May 1 6. It had blowed hard in the night , 

and the wreck appeared more broken by the 

'force of the vater ; but I ftaid so long in the 

woods to get pigeoas for food, that the tide 

prevented me going to the wreck that day. 

May 17. I faw some pieces of the wreck 

VoL I. L 



d by Google 



mi LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
blown on (hore at a great diftance , two miles 
off, and resolved to fee what they were , but 
found it was a piece of the head , and too heavy 
for me to bring away. 

May 24. From the 17th to this day, I wor- 
ked on the wreck, and with hard labour loo- 
fened some things so much with the crow, that 
on the firft flowing tide feveral caiks floated 
out , and two of the feamen's xhefts ; but the 
wind blowing from the fliore, nothing came 
to land that aay except fome pieces of timber , 
and an hogfliead which had fome Brazil pork in 
it , but the fait water and the fand had fpoiled it. 

I continued this work every day from the 
24th of May to the 15th of June, except the 
time necessary to get food , which I always ap** 
pointed , during this part of my employment, 
to be when the tide was up, that I might be 
ready when it was ebbed out to attend the wreck. 
By this time I had gotten timber and plank, and 
iron-work enough to have built a good boat , 
if I had known how ; as alfo at different times , 
and in feveral pieces , near aliundred weight of 
the flieetlead. 

June 1 6. Going down to the fea-fide I found 
a large tortoife or turtle ; this was the firft I had 
feen ; which , it feems , was only my misfor- 
tune ^ not any defect of the place , or fcarcity ; 
for had I happened to be on the other fide of the 
ifland , I might have had hundreds of them eve- 
ry day, as I afterwards found , though perhaps 
1 might have paid dear for them. 

June^ 7. 1 fpent in cooking the turtle: I found 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON GRUSOE. 123 

in her threefcore eges ; and her ftefli was to me , 
at that time,the mou favoury and pleafanti ever 
tailed in my life , having had no flefli , but of 
goats and fowls , fince I landed in this horrible 
place. 

June 1 8. Raining all the day , I ftaid within. I 
thought at this time the rain felt cold , and I was 
fomething chilly , which I knew was not usual 
in that latitude. 

June 19. Very ill, and fhivering , as if the 
weather had been cold. 

June 20. No reft all night; violent pains in 
ifiy head , and fever ifh. 

June 2 [ . Very ill , frighted almoft to death 
with the apprchenfions of my fad condition , in 
being fick , ?nd having no help : prayed to God , 
for thefirft time fince the ftorm off Hull , but 
• fcarce kne^ v w hat I faid ^ or why ; my thoughts 
feeing, all confufed. 

June 22. A little better, but under dreadful 
apprehenfions. 

June 23. Very bad again; cold and fliiverlng, 
attended with a violent head-ach. 

June 24. Much better. 

June 25. An ague very violent ; the fit held 
me feveral hours , cold fit and hot, with faint 
fweats after it. 

June. 26. Better; and having no victuals to 
eat , took my gun , but found myfelf very 
weak ; however , I killed a fhe-goat , and with 
much diflSculty got it home , broiled fome of it , 
and eat ; I would fain have ftewed it , and made 

L2 



dbyGdogk 



ift4 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
fome broth , but had no convenience for thaU 
purpofe. 

June 27. The ague returned again Co violent , 
that I l^y in bed all day ,and neither eat nor drank. 
I was ready to perifli with thirft , and fo weak , I 
had not ftrength to ftand up, or get myfelf any 
water to drink ; prayed to God again , but was 
light headed ; and vhen I was not I was fo igno- 
rant , that I knew not what to fay ; only I lay 
luid cried— <* Lord , look upon me ! Lord, pity 
„ me ! Lord have mercy upon me ! ** I fuppofe 
I did nothing elfe for two or three hours, till the 
fit wearing off, I fell afleep , and did not awak^ 
till the night was far advanced. When I awoke , 
I found myfelf much refireflied , but weak and 
exceeding thirfly ; however , as I had no water 
in my whole habitation , I was forced to lie till 
corning, and went toileep again; in this fecond 
fleep , I had the following terrible dream. 
. I thought I was fitting on the ground , on the 
outfide of my wall , at the fame ^>ot where I fat 
when the ftorm blew after the earthquake , and 
that I f I w a man defcend from a black cloud , in 
a bright flame of fire , and light upon the ground : 
he was all over as bright as a flame , fo that I 
couldbut jufl: bear to look towards him;his coun- 
tenance was too dreadful for words to defcribe. 
When he ftepped on the ground , I thought the 
earth trembled , juft as it had done before in the 
earthquake ;.and the atmofphere looked , to my 
apprehenfion, as if it had been filled with flas- 
hes of fire. 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSdK GRVSOE. 125 

He was no fooner landed upon the earth , but 
he moved towards me, with a long fpearoT 
weapon in his hand as if defigning to kill me ; 
when he came to a rifing ground, at fome dif- 
tance , he fpoke to me , or I heard a voice fo ter- 
rible 5 that it is impossible to exprefs the terror 
©fit : all that I can fay I underftood was this— 
„ Seeing all thefe things have not brought thefe 
„ to repentance , now thou (halt die. "At which 
words I thought he lifted up the fpear that \^ as 
in his hand to kill me. 

No one that fliall ever read this account '^ ill 
expect I ihould be able to describe the horrors of 
m}^ foul at this terrible vifion ; I mean, that even 
while it V. as a dream, I even dreamed of thofe 
horrors ; nor is it any mote poflible to defcribe 
the impreflion that remained upon my mind 
when I aw aked and found it was but a dream. 

I had , alas ! no divine knowledge ; what I had 
received by the good inftruction of my father 
was then worn out by an uninterruptea feries , 
for eight years , of fea- faring wickcanefs , and a 
conftant converfation with none but fuch as 
were , lilgsmyfelf, wicked and prophane to the 
laft degree. I do not remember that I had^ in all 
that time , one thought that fo much as tended 
either to looking upwards towards God, or in- 
'wards towards a reflection upon my own ways : 
but a certain ftupidity of foul , without defire 
of good , or confcience of evil , had entirely 
overwhelmed me , and I was all that the moft 
hardened , unthinkang , ^vricked creature , among. . 

L 3 



d by Google 



ja6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

our common {ailors , can be fuppofed to be; and 
having the leaft fenfe of the fear of God in dan- 
gers , or of thankfiilnefs to God in deliverances. 

In the relation of what is already paft of my 
ftory , this will be the more eafily believed , 
when I add , tjiat through all the variety of mi- 
feries that had to this day befallen me , I never 
had fo much as one thought ofit's being the hand 
of God , or that it was a ]u& punifliment for my 
fins : my rebellious behaviovu* againft my fa- 
ther , or my prefent fins , which w ere great ; or 
fo much as a punifhment for the general courfe 
of my wicked life. When I m as on the defperate 
expedition on the defart fhores of Africa , I ne-^ 
ver had fo much as one thought of what would 
become of me , or one wifn to God to direct 
me whither I fhould go , or to keep me from the 
^nger , \a hieh apparently, furrounded me , as 
well from voracious creatures , as cruel favages : 
but I was merely thoughtlefs of God , or a Pro- 
vidence ; I acted like a mere brute , from the 
principles of natiu-e , and by the dictates of com- 
mon fenfe only ; and , indeed , hardly that. 

When I was delivered and taken up at fea by 
the Portugal captain , well ufed , and dealt juflly 
and honourably with , as well as charitably , I 
had not the leaft thankfiilnefs in my thoughts : 
when again I was fhipw recked , ruined, and in 
danger ofdrowingon thisifland, I was as far 
from remorfe , or looking on it as a judgment; 
I only faid to myfelf often , that I was an un- 
fortunate dog , and bom to be always miferi^t 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 127 

It is true, when I got on Ihore firft here , and 
found all my fliip's crew drowned , and my felf 
ipared , I was furprized with a kind of extafy , 
and fome tranfports of foul , v\ hich , had the 
grace of God aflifted , might have come up to 
true thankfulnefs ; but it ended where it began , 
in a mere common flight of joy ; or , as I may 
fay , being glad I was alive ^ without the leaft 
reflection upon the diilinguifliing goodnefsof 
the hand which had preferved me , and had Ang- 
led me out to be preferved , when all the reft 
weredeftroyed; or an enquiry why Providence 
had been thus merciful to me : even jufl the fa- 
me common fort of joy which feamen generally 
have , after they have got fafe afhore from fhip- 
wreck , all which they drown in the next bowl 
of punch , and forget almofl as foon as it is overj 
and all the refl of my life was like it. 

Even when I was afterwards , on due confi- 
deration , made fenfible of my condition , in 
what manner I was cafl on this dreadful place 3^ 
out of the rearch of humankind, out of all hope 
of relief or profpect of redemption, as foon as 
I faw a probability of living , and that I fhould 
not flarve and perifh for hunger , all the fenfe of 
my affliction wore off, and I began to be very 
eafy , applied myfelf to the works proper for 
my prefervation and fupply , and was fer enough 
from being afflicted at my condition , as a judg- 
ment from Heaven , or as the hand of God 
againfl me : thefe were thoughts which very fel- 
&m entered iato my head* 



d by Google 



128 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

The groyving up of the corn , as hath been 
obfervedinmy journal , had at firft fome little 
influence upon me , and began to affect me with 
ferioufnefs , as long as I thought it had fome- 
thing miraculous in it ; but as foon as that part 
of the thought was removed , all the impreflion 
which w as raifed from it entirely wore off. 

Even the earthquake , though nothing could 
be more terrible in it's nature , or more imme- 
diately directing to the invifible Power which 
alone produces fuch things ; yet no fooner was 
the firft fright over, but the impreflion it had 
made went offalfo. I had no more fenfe of God, 
or his judgment, much lefs of the prefent afflic- 
tion of my circumftances being from his hand , 
than if I had been in the moft profperous con- 
dition of my hfe. 

But now, when I began to be fick , and a 
cool and deliberate view of the mrferies of death 
came to place itfelf before me ; when my fpirits 
began to fink under the burden of a ftrong dif- 
temper , andnature was exhaufted w ith the vio- 
lence of the fever ; conscience , that had flept fo 
long, began to awake , and I could not avoid 
reproaching myfelf with my paft life , in w hich 
I had fo evidently , by uncommon wickednefs, 
provoked the juftice of God to lay me under 
uncommon ftrokes , and to deal with me in so 
vindictive a manner. . 

Thefe reflections oppreflTed me from the fe- 
cond or third day of my diftemper, and in a vio- 
lence , as well of the fever as of the dreadful re- 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. laj 

proaches of my confcience,extorted fome uords 
from me , like praying to God , though I can- 
not fay they were cither a prayer attended with 
defires , or with hopes : it was rather the voice 
of mere fright and diftrefs ; my thoughts were 
confufed , the convictions great upon my mind, 
and the horror of dying in fuch amiferable con- 
dition , raifed vapours into my head with the 
tnere apprehenfions ; and , in thefe hurries of 
my foul , I knew not what my tongue might 
cxprefs ; but it was rather exclamation , fuch 
25— . « Lord ! what a miferable creature am I ! 
„ If I .fhould be fick , I {hall certainly die for 
„ want of help , and what will become of me ! '* 
Then the tears burft from my eyes , and I could 
iay no more for fome time. 

In this interval, the good advice of my fe- 
ther came to my mind , and prefently his pre- 
iliction , which I mentioned in the beginning ot 
this ftory ; vir. that if I did take this foolifli 
ftep , God would not blefs me , and I fliould 
have leifure hereafter to reflect upon having 
neglected his counfel , when there might be no- 
ne to aflift me in my recovery. '* Now , *' faid 
I , aloud , '^ my dear father's words are come to 
„ pafs : God's juftice has overtaken me , and 
„ I have none to help or hearme, I rejected the 
;; voice of Providence which had mercifully 
,, put me in a pofture or ftate of life wherein I 
^, might have been happy or eafy ; but I would 
„ neither fee it my felf, nor learn to know the 
^ bleffing of it from my parents; I left them t^ 



d by Google 



130 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

„ mourn over my folly , and now I am left to 
„ mourn under the confequences of4t. I refu- 
„ fed their help and affiftance, who would ha- 
„ ve introduced me into the world , and would 
„ have made everything eafy to me ; and now 
„ I have difficulties to ftruggle with , too great 
„ for even nature itfelf to fupport , and no as- 
„ fiftance , no help , no comfort , no advice! " 
99 Then I cried out — " Lord , be my help , for 
„ I am in great diftrefs ! " 

This was the firft prayer^ If I may call it fo , 
I had made for many years. — But to return to 
my journal. 

June 2 H Having been fomew hat refrefhed by 
the fleep I had had , and the fit being entirely 
off, I got up , and though the fright and terror 
of my dream ftill hung heavy on my mind , yet 
Iconfidered that the fit of the ague would return^ 
again the next day , and now was my time to 
get fomething to refrefli and fupport myfelf 
when I fhould be ill. The firft thing I did was 
to fill a large fquare cafe bottle with water , and 
{Qt it upon my table , in reach of my be ; and 
to take off the chill or aguifli difpofition of the 
water , I put about a quarter of a pint of rum 
into it , and mixed them together ; I then got a 
piece of the goat's flefli , and broiled it on the 
coals , but could eat very little; I walked about,, 
but was very weak, and withal very heavy hear- 
ted from a fenfe of my miferable condition , 
dreading the return of my diftemper the next 
day J at night I made my ilipper of three of the 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 131 

turtle's eggs , which I roafted In the aflies , and 
cat as we call it in the (hell ; and this was the 
firft kind of food I ever aflced God's bleffing to , 
even ^as I could remember ) in my whole life. 
After I had eaten , I tried to walk ; but found 
myfelf (o weak , that I could hardly carry the 
gun , ( for I never went out without that ; ) fo 
I went but a little way , and fat down upon the 
ground , looking out to the fea , which was juft 
before me , and very calm and fmooth. As I 
fat here , fome thoughts , fuch as the following, 
occured to my mind. 

„ What is the earth and fea , of which I ha- 
,, ve feen fo much ? Whence produced ? And 
„ what am I, and all the other creatures, wild 
,, and tame , human and brutal ; whence are 
)9 we ? 

„ Sure we are all made by fome fecret Po- 
,5 wer, who formed the earth and fea, the air 
V and fky ; and who is that ? 

,. It then followed moft naturally — ^* It is 
„ God that has made them all ! " — ** Well, 
but , " then it came on ftrongly ; ** if God has 
,9 made all thefe things, he guides and governs 
,, them all , and all things that concern them ; 
,9 for the Being that could make all things muft 
„ certainly have power to guide and direct 
„ them. 

„ If fo , nothing can happen In the great cir- 
M cult of his works, either without his knov- 
,9 ledge or appointment. 

„ And if nothing happens without his kno w- 



d by Google 



13a LIFE AND ADVENTURES ^ 

„ ledge , he knows that I am here , and am in 
„ a dreadful condition ; and if nothing happens 
„ without his appointrrient , he has appointed 
„ all this to befal me. " 

Nothing occurred to my thoughts to contra- 
dict any of thefe conclufions ; and therefore it 
refted upon me with the greater force , that it 
muft net- ds be , that God had appointed all thi^ 
to befel rtle ; that I was brought to this mifera- 
Ble fituationby his direction ; he having the fo- 
le power , not of me only , but of every thing 
that happened in the world. Immediately it fol- 
lowed. -— 

** ;^ Why has God done this to me ? What ha- 
„ ve I done to be thus ufed ? ** 

My confcience prefently checked me in that 
enquiry, as if I hadblafphemed ; and metliought 
it ipoke to me like a voice — '^ Wretch ! doft 
„ thou a{k what thou haft done } Look back ^ 
„ upon a dreadful mifpent life , and alk thyfelf 
„ what thou haft not done } Aflc , why is it 
„ that thou wert not long ago deftroyed ? Why 
„ wert thou not drowned in Yarmouth Roads ? 
„ killed in the fight , when the fliip was taken 
„ by theSalleemanofwar ? devoured by the 
„ wild beafls on the coaft of Africa } or arow- 
,. ned here, when all the crew periflied but 
„ thyfelf ? Doft thpu aflc what have I done ? ^ 

I was ftruck dumb with thefe reflections , as 
one aftoniflied , and had not a word to fay ; no 
not to anfwer to itiyfelf : but rofe up , penfive 
and fad , walked back to my retreat, and went 

up 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 133^ 

up over my wall , as if I had been going to bed ; 
but my thoughts were fadly difturbed , and I 
had no inclination to fleep , fo I fat do wn in my 
chair , and lighted my lamp , for it began to be 
dark. Now as the apprehenfions of the return 
of my diftemper terrified my very much , it oc- * 
curred to my thought , that the Brazilians take 
no phyfic but their tobacco , for almofl: alldis- 
tempers ; and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco 
in one of the chefts , which was quite cured , 
and fome alfo that was green , and not then fit 
for ufe. 

To thischeft I repaired, in which! found a 
cure both for foul and body ; I opened the cheft, 
and immediately met ^ ith what I looked for , 
viz. the tobacco; and as the few books I had 
faved lay there too, I took outone of the bibles 
which I mentioned before, and which, to this 
time I had not found either leifure or inclinaton 
to look into; I fay ,1 took it out , and brought 
both that and the tobacco with me to the table. 

What ufe to make of the tobacco I knew 
not , as to my diftemper , or w hether it was 
good for it or no ; but I tried feveral experiments 
with it , as if I was refolved it fliould hit one 
■way or other : I firft took a piece of a leaf, and 
chewed it in my mouth, which indeed almoft 
ftupified me , the tobacco being ftrong , and I 
not accuftomed to its ufe. I then took fome , 
and fteeped it an hour or two in rum , refolving 
to take a dofe of it when I lay^down ; and laft- 
ly , I burnt fome upon a pan of coals , and held 
Vol I. M 



d by Google 



134 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

my nofe clofe over the fmoak as long as I could 
bear it , as well for the heat , as' to receive- be- 
neficial virtues from the plant. 

After this operation I took up the bible , and 
began to read ; but my head was too much dis- 
turbed with the tobacco to bear reading, at leaft 
at that time-: only having opened the book ca- 
fually , the firft words that occurred to me were 
thefe — " Call on me in the day of trouble , 
„ and I will deliver ^ and thou (halt glorify 



me. '^ 



The words were very apt to my fituation ^ 
and made fome impreffion upon my thoughts at 
the time of reading them , though not fo much 
as they did afterwards ; for , as for being deli- 
vered , the word had no affinity , as I may 
fay ,40 me ; it was fo remote , fo impoffible , 
in my apprehenfion of things , that I faid as the 
children of Ifrael did when they were promifed 
ilefli to eat — " Can God fpread a table in the 
„ wildemefs ? ** — ** Can God himfelf deliver 
„ me from this place ? *' And as it was not for 
many years that any hogp appeared, this pre- 
vailed very often upon my thoughts : but ho vv- 
ever , the words made a very great impreffion 
^upon me , and I mufed upon them very often. 
It grew now late , and the tobacco had , as I 
"faid , affected my head fo much , that I was in- 
clined to fleep ; accordingly I left my lamp bur- 
ning in the cave, left I fnould want any thing 
in the night , and went to bed; but before I lay 
down, I did what I never had done in all my 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 135 

life , I kneeled down and prayed to God to ful- 
fil the promife to me, that if I called upon him 
in the day of trouble , he would deliver me. Af- 
ter my broken and imperfect prayer was over , 
I drank the rum vherein I had fteeped the to- 
bacco , which was fo ftrong and rank of the 
weed , that indeed I could fcarce get it down. 
Immediately on this I went to bed , and foon 
found it flew up into my head violently ; but I 
fell into a found fleep , and viaked no more till , 
by the fun^itmuft havebeen near three o'Clock 
in the afternoon the next day ; nay , to this 
hour I am partly of the opinion that I flept all 
the next day and night , and till about three the 
day after ; for otherwife I knew not how I 
Ihould lofe a day out of my reckoning in the 
days of the week , as it appeared fome years af- 
ter I had done ; for if I had loft it by croffing 
and re-croffing the line , I Ihould hav€ loft mo* 
re than a day ; but in my account it was loft , 
and I never knew which way. 

Be that , however , one way or other , when 
I awaked I found my felf exceedingly refreflied , 
and my fpirits lively and cheerful. When I got 
up I was flronger than I was the day before , 
and my ftomach better; for I was hungry; and , 
in fhort , I had no fit the next day , but conti- 
nued much altered for the better. This was 
the 29th. 

The 30th was my well day of courfe , and I 
went abroad with my gun , but did not care to 
travel too fnr. I killed a fea-fowl or two , fbme- 

M % 



dbyGoogk 



136 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
thing like a brandgoofe , and brought them ho- 
me ^ but was not very forward to eat them ; fo 
I eat fome more of the turtle's eggs, which were 
very good. This evening I renewed the medici- 
ne wliich I had fuppofed did me good the day 
before , viz. the tobacco fteeped in rum ; only 
I did not take fo much as before, nor did I chew 
any of the leaf, or hold my head over the fmoak; 
however, I was notfo well the next day , which 
was the firftof July ,as I hoped I ihould have 
been, for I had a return pf the cold fit, but it was 
oofr much. 

July 2. 1 renewed the medicine all the three 
■ways , and dozed myfelf with it at firft , dou- 
bling the quantity which I drank. 

July 3. I miffed the fit for good and all, 
though I did not recover my foil ftrength for 
fome weeks after. While I was thus gathering 
ftrength , my thoughts ran exceedingly upon 
thefe words in the Scripture , *' I will deliver 
thee; '* and the impoffibility of my deliverance 
lay much upon my mind , in bar of my ever ex- 
pecting it : but as I was difcouraging myfelf with 
fuch thoughts it occurred to my mind , that I 
d^velt fo' much upon my deliverance from the 
main affliction , that I difregarded the delive- 
rance I had received ; and I was , as it were , ma- 
de to alk myfelf fuch queftions as thefe ; viz. 
„ Have I not been delivered , and wonderfolly 
„ too , from ficknefs ? From the moft diftreffed 
„ condition that could be , and that was fo 
„ frightfol to me ? And what notice had I ta-| 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 137 

,, ken of it ? Had I done my part ? God had de-r 
„ liveredmerbutl had not glorified him/* That 
is to fay ^ I had notovvned and been thankful for 
that as a deliverance, and how coul3 I expect 
greater deliverance ! 

Thefe reflections greatly affected me^and I im- 
mediately kneeled down , and gave God thanks 
aloud for my recovery from my ficknefs, 

July 4. In the morning I took the bible: and 
opening it where the New Teftament commen- 
ces 5 1 began ferioufly to read it ^ and laid a res- 
traint upon myfelf to r^d fome every morning 
jmd every night, not confining myfetf to thQ 
number of chapters , but to read as long as my 
thoughts fhould engage me. It was not long af- 
ter when I fet ferioufly to this work , but I found 
my heart more deeply and (incerely affected with 
the wickednefs of my pad life ; the impreffion of 
my dream revived and the words — *' All thefe 
„ things have not brought thee to repentance , " 
ran ferioufly in my thoughts : I was earneflly 
begging of God to give me repentance , when it 
happened providentially the very day, that , 
reading the Scripture , I came to thefe words — 
„ He is exalted a Prince and a Saviour, to give 
,, repentance , and to give remiffion : '* I threw 
do A n the book and with my heart as well as my 
hands lifted up to heaven , in a kind of extacy 
©f joy ,1 cried out aloud " Jefus, thou fon of Da- 
^ vid ! Jefus , thou exa! ted Prince and SaviQur,, 
f9 give me repentance ! **' 

Tbisi was the fir flLtimel could fay>in th^ ttu»^r 

WE- 3, 



d by Google 



138 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

fenfe of the ^ ords , that I prayed in all my life ; 
for now I prayed with a fenfe of my condition, 
and with a true fcripture view of hope, foun- 
ded on the encouragement of the v\ ord God; and 
from this time , I may fay , I began to have ho- 
pe that God would hear me. 

Now I began to conftrue the tc ords mentio- 
ned above . — *' Call on me , and I will deliver 
thee i ^ in a different fenfe from what I had ever 
done before; for then I had no notion of any 
thing being called deliverance , but my being 
delivered from the captivity I was in; for though 
I was indeed at large in the place , yet the ifland 
was certainly a prifon to me , ana that in the 
worft fenfe of the word; but now I learned to 
take it in another fenfe. Now I looked back 
upon my paft life with fiich horror, and my fins 
appearing fo dreadful , my foul fought nothing 
of God but deliverance from the road of guilt 
that bore down all my comfort. As, for my fo- 
litary life , it was nothing; I did not fo much as 
pray to be delivered from it, or think of it; it 
was all of no confideration in comparifon of 
this ; and I added this part here , to hint to 
whoever ftiall read it, that whenever they co- 
me to a true fenfe of things, they will find 
deliverance from fin a much greater blefsing 
than deliverance fro^ affliction. 

But leaving this part , I return to my journal. 

My condition began now to be , though not 
lefs miferable as to my way of living , yet much 
eafier to my mind j and my thoughts being- di-^ 



dbyGoogk 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 139 

rected , by a conftant reading the Scripture , and 
praying to God , to things of a higher nature , I 
had a great deal of comfort within, which till 
now I knew nothing of; alfo , as my health and 
ftrength returned,! determined to furnifli myfelf 
with every thing I wanted , and make my way 
of living as regular and comfortable as I coulci. 

From the 4th of July to the 1 4th, I was chief- 
ly employed in walking about with my gun in 
my hand , though I could proceed no great dis- 
tance without intervals of reft , being from ill- 
riefs fo weakened , that I Irad very little ftrength 
left : indeed it is hardly to be imagined how low 
1 was , and to what an imperfect ftafe I was re- 
duced. The application which Imade ufe of, was 
perfectly new , and perhaps what had never cu- 
red an ague before; neither can I recommend it 
to any one to practice, by this experiment : and 
though k did carry off the fit , yet it rather con-» 
tributed to weaken me ; for I had frequent con- 
yulfions in my nerves and limbs for fome time* 

I learned from it , alfo , this in particular ,. 
that being abroad in the rainy feafon was the 
moft pernicious thing to my health that could 
be , efpecially in thefe rains that came atten- 
ded with ftorms and huricanes of wind; for as 
the rain which came in a dry feafon was al- 
ways moft accompanied with fuch ftorms , fo 
I found this rain was much more dangerous than 
the rain which fell in September and October. 

I had been now in the ifland above ten 
months y and all poilibility of deliverance from 



d by Google 



140 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

iny condition feemed to be entirely taken from: 
me;. I firmly believed, that no human beings 
had ever fet foot upon the place. Having now 
fecured my habitation ^ zsl thought fully ta 
my mind , I had a great defire to make a more 
perfect difcovery of the ifland , and to fee what 
other productions I might find of which I wa3 
at prefent unacquainted. 

It was the 1 5th of July that I be^n to take 
a more particular furvey of the ifland itfelf ; 
I went up the creek firft> where , as hinted , 
I brought my rafts on fliore. I found , after I ' 
came about two miles up , that the tide did not 
flow any higher, and that it was no more thai* 
a little brookof running water , and very frefti 
and good; but this being the dry feafon, there 
was hardly any water in fome parts of it, at 
leaft not enough to run into any ftream , fo aa. 
it could be perceived. 

On the bank of this brook I found many 
pleafant favannahs or meadows , p4ain, fmooth, 
and covered withgrafs; and on the ri^ng parts 
of them next to the higher grounds , where the 
water, as itmightbefuppofed , never overflo- 
wed , I found a great deal of tobacco, green ^ 
and growing to a great and very ftrong ftalk 5 
there were various other plants with which J 
was unacquainted , and which might probably 
I^ve fome efficacious virtues 3^ though to mst 
unknown. 

I fearched for the caflfava root , of which th«r 
Indiam ia all that climate make their brea^ 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 141 

but I could find none. I faw large plants of 
aloes , but did not then underftand them ; I faw 
feveral fugar-canes , but wild , and , for want 
of cultivation, imperfect, I contented myfelf 
with thek difcoveries for this time, and came 
back mufing with myfelf what courfe I might 
take to know the virtue and goodnefs of any 
of the fi-uits or plants which I fliould difco- 
ver , but could bring it to no conclufion ; for , 
in fhort , I had made fo little obfervation u hile 
I was irrthe Brazils, that I was unacquainted 
with the plants of the field ; atleaft 1 knew very 
little that might ferve me to any purpofe at this 
time of my diftrefs. 

The next day, the i6th , I went the fame 
way again ; and , after going fomething farther 
thani had done the day before,Ifound thebrook 
and the favannahs begnn to ceafe , and the coun- 
try became more w oody than before. In thispart 
I found different fruits , and particularly melons 
upon the ground in great abundance , and gra- 
pes upon the trees ; the vines had fpread in- 
deed ovef the trees , and the clutters of grapes 
were juft now in their prime , very ripe and 
rich. This was a furprizing difcovery , and I 
was exceeding glad of them , but was warned 
by my experience to eat fparingly of them, re- 
membering , that when I was afliore in Barbary, 
the eating of grapes killed feveral of our EngUfli- 
men who were (laves there, by throwing them 
into fluxes , and fevers ; but I found an excellent 
ufe for thefe grapes, aiid that was, to cureoB 



d by Google 



142 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

dry them in the fun , and keep them as* dried 
grapes or raifins are kept, which I thought would 
Ee, as indeed they were, as wholefome , and a« 
agreeable to eat , when no grapes might be had* 

I fpent all that evening there , which was the 
firft time I had lain from home. When night 
came , I got up into a tree , where I flept w«Il, 
and the next morning proceeded upon my dif- 
covery , travelling near four miles , as I might 
judge by the length of th^ valley , keeping ftill 
due north, with a ridge of hills on the fouth 
and north fide of me. 

At the end of this journey I came to an ope- 
ning where the country feemed to defccnd to 
the weft; and a little fpring of frefli water which 
ifTued out of the fide of the hill by me, ran 
the other way , that is , due eaft ; ana the coun* 
try appeared fo frefli , fo green , fo flourifliing, 
every thing being in a ftate of beautifiil ver- 
dure , that it looked like a planted garden. 

I defcended a little on the fide of the valley , 
furveying it with a fecret kind of pleafure to 
think this was all my own; that I was king 
and lord of all this country indefeafibly , and 
had a right of poffeflion ; and , if I could con-» 
vey it , I might have it in inheritance , as com- 
pleatly as any lord of a manor in England, 
I faw here abundance of cocoa y orange , le^ 
mon , and citron-trees ; but all wild , and few 
bearing any fruit; at leaft, not then;howe-« 
ver , die greien limes that I gathered were not 
pnly pleafjint to eat , but very wholefome 5 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 143 

and I mixed their juice afterwards with water, 
which made it very wholefome , and ve^ry cool 
and refrefhing drink. 

I found now I had bufinefs enough to gather 
and carry home ; and refolved to lay up a ftore, 
as well of grapes as limes and lemons , to fur- 
niih myfelf for the wet feafon ^ which I knew 
•was approaching. 

In order to do this , I gathered a great heap 
of grapes in one place , and a great parcel of 
limes and lemons in another place; and taking 
afewofeachwithme, I travelled homeward, 
and refolved to come again , and bring a bag or 
fack , or what I could make , to carry the reft 
home. 

Accordingly , having fpent thtee days in this 
Journey , I canie home , ( fo I muft now call 
my tent, and my cave : } but, before I got 
thither , the grapes were fpoiled ; the richnefs 
of the fruit , and the weight of the juice , having 
broken them, and bruifed them, they ^ere 
good for little or nothing ; as to the limes , 
they were good, but I could bring but few. 

The next day , being the 1 9th , I went back , 
having made me two fmall bags to bring home 
my harveft : but I was furprized , when coming 
to my heap of grapes, which were fo rich and 
fine when I gathered them , I found them all 
fpread abroad, trod to pieces , and dragged about, 
fome here, fome there, and abundance eaten 
and devoured. By this I concluded . there were 
fome wild Creatures thereabouts , which had 
done this ; but what they were I knew not. 



d by Google 



144 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

However, as I found there was no laying 
them upon heaps, and no carrying them away 
in a fack , but that one way they would be def- 
troyed , and the other they would be cruflied 
with their os^n weight , I took another courfe ; 
I gathered a large quantity of the grapes , and 
. hung them upon the out-branches , of the trees , 
that they might cure and dry in the fun ; and as 
for the limes and lemons , I carried as many 
back as I could well ftand under. 

AVJien I came home from this journey, I 
contemplated with great pleafure on the fruit- 
fulnefs of that valley, and the pleafantnefs of 
the fituation , the fecurity from ftorms on that 
fide of the water , and the wood ; and conclu- 
ded that I had pitched upon a place to fix my 
abode , which was by far the word part of the 
country. Upon the whole , I began to think of 
removing my habitation , and to look out for 
a place equally fafe , as where I no v was fitua- 
te, if polTible, in that pleafant fruitful part of 
the ifland. 

This thought ran long in my head , and I 
was exceeding fond of it for fome tim^ , the 
p^eafantnefs of the place tempting me; but when 
I came to a nearer view of it, and to confider 
that I was now by the fea-fide , where it was at 
leaft poffible that fome thing might happen to my 
advantage, and that the fa,me ill-fate that brought 
me hither might bring fome other unhappy 
wretches to the fame place ; and though it was 
fcarce probable , that any fuch thing fliould 

ever 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 145 

tver happen , yet to inclofe myfelf among the 
hills and woods , in the centre of the ifland , was 
to anticipate my bondage , and to render fuch an 
affair not only improbable , but impoffible; and 
that therefore I ought not by any means to re- 
move. 

However, I ^ as fo pleafed with this place , 
that I fpent much of. my time there for the who- 
le remaining part of the month of July : and 
though, upon fecond thoughts, I reived , as 
above , not to remove ; yet I tuilt me a little 
kind of bower, and furrounded it at a diftance 
with a very ftrong fence , being a double hedge , 
as high as I could reach , well flaked and filled 
between with brufli-wood : and here I lay very 
feciire , fometimes two or three nights together , 
always going over it with a ladder as before ; fo 
that I fancied now I had my country-houfe , and 
my fea-coafthoufe. And this work took me up 
the beginning of Auguft. 

I had but newly finiflied my fence , and began 
to enjoy my labour , when the rains came on , 
and made me flick clofe to my firfl habitation ; 
for though I had made me a tent like the other , 
with a piece of a fail, and fpread it very well , 
yet I had not the fhelter of an hill to keep me 
from florms , nor a cave behind me to retreat in- 
to when the rains were extraordinary. 

About the beginning of Augufl, as I faid , I 
had finifhed my bower, and began to enjoy my- 
felf. The third of Augufll found the grap. s I had 
hung tip were perfectly dried , and indeed were 
Vol. I. N 



d by Google 



146 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

excellent good raifins of the fun ; fo I b^n to 
take them down from the trees , and it vas very- 
happy that I did fo; for the rains which follo- 
wed would have fpoiled them , and I had loft 
the beftpart of my winter-food; for I had abo- 
ve two hundred large bunches of them. No foo- 
ner had I taken them all down , and carrfedmoft 
of them home to my cave , but it began torain-; 
and from thence , vhich was the 1 4th of Au- 
guft , it raJiged more or lefs every day , till, the 
middle of October ; and fo;netimes fo violent- 
ly that I could not ftir out ofmy cave for feve- 
ral days. 

At this time I was mruch furprized with the 
increafe ofmy family : I had been concerned for 
the lofsof one ofmy cats, which ran away from 
me , and , as I thought , had been dead , and I 
heard no tale or tidings of her , till , to my afto- 
nifliment , (he came home about the etod of Au- 
guft, with three kittens. This was the more ftran- 
ge , becaufe , though I had killed a wild-cat , as . 
I called it , with my gun , yet I thought it was 
quite a different kind from our European cats ; 
but I found the kittens were the fame kind of 
houfe-breed like the old one ; and both my cats 
being females , I thought it very flrange. But 
from thefe three cats , I afterwards came to be 
fo peftered with them , that I was forced to kill 
them like vermin, oi wild-beafts , and to drive 
them from my houfe as much as poffible. 

From the 1 4th of Auguft to the 26th it rainei 
ificeflantly , fo that I could notfiir out. In this 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 147 

ftate of confinement I began to be ftraitened for 
food ; but venturing out twice , I one day kil- 
led a goat ; and the laft day , which was the 
26th , found a very large tortoife, which was a 
treat to me. And my food rvas regulated thus ; I 
eat a bunch of raifins for my breakfeft; a piece 
of the goat's flefh , or of the turtle, for my din- 
ner , broiled , (for , to my great misfortune I had 
no veffel to boil or fte w any thing ;) and two or 
diree of the turtle's eggs for fupper. 

During this confinement by the rain , T wor- 
ked daily two or three hours at enlarging my 
cave; and , by degrees , worked it on toward^s 
one fide, till I came to the outfide of the hill , 
and madi^ a. door or way out , which came bey- 
ond my fence or wall ; and fo I came in and out 
this way. But I was not perfectly eaiy at lying 
fo open ; for as I had managed jnyfelf before , I 
was in a perfect inclctfure , whereas , now I 
thought I lay expofed ; and yet I could not per- 
eeive , that there was any living thing to fear , 
the largeft animal I had yet fecn upon the ifland 
being a goat, 

September 36. 1 was now come to theunhap^ 
py anniverfary of my landing ; I caft up the not^ 
ches on my pofl, and found I had been on fhore 
three hundred and fixty-five days. I kept this 
day as a folemn faft , fetting it apart to religious 
exercife, proftratingmyfelf to the ground with 
the mod ferious humiliation , confeflRng myfelf 
to God , acknowledging his righteous judgment 
upon me , and praying to him to hav^ mercy on 

N 2 



d by Google 



148 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

me , through Jefus Chrift ; and having not tas- 
ted the leaftrefrefliment for twelve hours , even 
till the going down of the fun , I then eat a bif- 
cuit cake and a bunch of grapes , and went to 
bed , finifhing the day as I began it. 

I had all this time obferved no fabbath-day ; 
for as at firft I had no fenfe of rehgion upon my 
mind , I had after fome time omitted to diftin- 
guifh the weeks , by making a longer notch than 
ordinary for the fabbath-day, and fo did not 
really* Icno w what any of the days vere ; but 
now having caft up the days above , I found I 
had been there a year ; fo I divided it into weeks , 
and fet apart every feventh day for a fabbath ; 
though I found at the end of my account I had 
loft a day or two of my reckoning. 

A little after this , my ink began to fail me , 
in confequence of which I ufed it more fparin- 
gly , and wrote downpnly the moft remarka- 
ble events of my life, without continuing a dai- 
ly memorandum of other things. 

The rainy feafon , and the dry feafon , began 
now to appear regular to me , and I leamea to 
divide them fo as to provide accordingly. But I 
bought all my experience before I had it ; and 
what I am going to relate was one of the moft 
difcouragingexpcrimentslhad made. Ithasbeen 
obferved , that I had faved the few ears of bar- 
ley andrice"whichl had fo furprizingly found 
fpring up , as I thought , of themfelves , and be- 
lieve there were about thirty ftalks of rice , and 
about twenty of barley ; and now I thought it 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSOlSr CRUSOE. 149" 
a proper time to fow it after the rains , the fun - 
being in it's fouthem pofition going from me. 

Accordingly I dug up a piece of ground , as 
well as I could , with my wooden fpade , and 
dividing it into two parts , I fowed my grain ; 
but as I was fowing, itcafually occurred to my 
Aoughts , that! uould not fow it all at firft , 
becaufe I did not know when was the proper 
time for it ; fo I fowed about two-thirds of the 
feeds , leaving the remainder for a future time. 

It was a great comfort to me afterwards that 
I did fo , for not one graia of that I fowed at 
this time came to any thing : for the dry months 
following , the earth having had no rain after 
the feed was fown, it had no moifture to affift 
it's growth , and never came up at all , till the 
wet feafon had come again , and then it grew as 
if it had been newly fown. 

Finding my firft feed did not grow , which I 
cafily imagined was by the drought, I fought 
for a moifter piece of ground to make another 
trial in ; and I dug up a piece near my new bo- 
wer , and fowed the reft of my feed m Februa- 
ry , a little before the vernal equinox ; and this , 
having the rainy month of March and April to 
water it , fprung up very pleafantly , and yiel- 
ded a very good crop ; but having part of the 
feed left only , and not daring to fow all that I 
had yet , I had but a fmall quantity at laft , my 
whole crop not amountingto above half a peck 
•f each kind. , 

But by this experience I was made maftersr 

N 3 



d by Google 



I50 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

of my bufinefs, and knew exactly when the 
propre feafon xi as to fow ; and that I might ex- 
pect two feed-times , and tvto harvefts , every 
year. 

While this com was growing , I made a little 
difcovery, which was of ufeto me after>x ards. 
As foon as the rains w ere over , and the wea- 
ther began to fettle , ^ hich was about the month 
of November , I made a vifit up the country to 
my bower , where , though I had not been fome 
months, yet I found all things juft as I left them. 
The circle , or double hedge that I had made , 
was not only- firm and entire , but the flakes 
which I had cut off fome trees that grew there- 
abouts , were all fhot out , and grown withJong 
branches , as much as a willow-tree ufually 
(hoots the firft year after lopping it's head, I 
could not tell what tree to call it , that thefe 
flakes were cut from, I was furprized , and yet 
very well pleafed, to fee the young trees grow ; 
and I pruned them, and led tnem up to grow a$ 
much alike as I could ; and it is fcarce credible , 
how beautiful a figure they grew into in three 
years; fo that though the hedge made a circle 
of about twenty-five yards in diameter , yet the 
trees , for fuch I might now call them , foon 
covered it; and it was a compleat fhade , fuflS- 
cient to lodge under all the dry feafon. 

This made me refolve to cut fome more fla- 
kes , and make me an hedge like thifi in a femi- 
circle round my wall , ( I mean , that of my 
firfl dwelling ) which I did j juid , placing the 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 151 

trees or flakes in a double row , at above eight 
yards diftance from my firft fence , they grew 
prefantly , and were at firft a fine cover to my 
habitation , and afterw ards ferved for a defence 
alfo , as I fliall obferve in it's order. 

I found now , that the feafons of the year 
might generally be divided , not into fummer 
and winter , as in Europe ; but into the rainy 
feafons , and the dry feafons , which were ge- 
nerally thus. — 



HalfFeb. 
All March 
Half April 
Half April 
All May 

June 

July 
HalfAuguft. 
HalfAuguft 
All September 
Half October 
Half October 
All Nov. 
Dec. 
Jan. 
HalfFeb. 



1 



Rainy, the fun being 
then on or near the 
Equinox. 

Dry, the fun being 
tlieii to the North of 
the line. 

Rain , the fun being 
then come back. 



Dry , the fun beings 
then to the South of 
the line. 



The rainy feafon fometimes held longer or 
(horter, as the winds happened to blo.v; but 
this was the general obfervation I made. After I 
had found, by experience , the ill confequence 



d by Google 



152 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

of being abroad in the rain ,1 took care to fiif- 
nifli myfelf with provifions beforehand , that 
I might not be obliged to go out ; and I fat wi- 
thin-doors as much as poffible during the wet 
months. 

In this time I found much employment , (and 
very fuitable alfo to the time ) for I faw great 
occafion of many things which I had no way to 
furnilh myfelf with , but by hard labour and 
conftant application ; particularly ^ I tried ma- 
ny ways to make myfelf a baiket ; but all the. 
twigs I could get for the purpofe w^ere fo brittle , 
that they would not anfvv er the purpofe. It pro- 
ved of excellent advantage to me now , that 
when I was a boy , I ufed to take great delight 
in (landing at a balket-maker's in tlie town 
where my father lived , to fee them make their 
wicker-w are ; and being , as boys ufually are , 
very officious to help , and a great obferver of 
the manner how they w orked thofe things , and 
fometimes lent an hand , I ha:d by this means 
fuch full knowledge of the methods of it , that 
I wanted nothing but the materials ; when it 
came into my mind, that the twigs of that tree 
from whence I cut my flakes that grew, might 
poffibly be as tough as the fallows , and wil- 
lows , and ofiers , in England ; and I refolved 
to try. 

Accordingly, the next day I went to my 
countryhoufe , as I called it , and cutting fome 
of the fmaller twigs , I found them to my pur- 
pofe as much as I could defire ; whereupon , I 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 153 

came the next time prepared with an hatchet to 
cut down a quantity, which I foon found, for 
there was a great plenty of them ; thefe I fet up 
to dry within my circle or hedges ; and when 
they were fit for ufe , I carried them to my ca- 
ve ; and here , during the next feafon , I em- 
ployed myfelf in making (as well as I could) a 
great many balkets , both to carry earth , and to 
carry or lay up any thing, as I had occafion : 
and though I did not finifli them very handfo- 
mely , yet I made them fufficiently ferviceable 
for my purpofe : and dius afterwards I took ca- 
re never to be without them ; and as my wic- 
ker-ware decayed , I made more ; efpecially , I 
made ftrong deep balkets to place my com in , 
inftead of (acks , when I fhould come to have 
any quantity of it. 

Having mattered this difficulty , and emplo* 
yed much time about it, I exerted myfelf to fee, 
if poffible , how to fupply two wants. I had no 
v^ffels to hold any thing that was liquid, ex- 
cept two rundlets , which vere almoft full of 
rum , and fome glafs bottles , fome of the com- 
mon fize , and others which were cafe-bottles ^ 
fquare, for holding waters, fpirits, etc. I had 
not fo much as a pot to boil any thing in , ex- 
cept a great kettle which I faved out of the fhip; 
and which was too big for fuch ufes as I wan- 
ted , viz. to make broth , and flew a bit of meat 
by itfelf. The fecond thing I would willingly 
have had was a tobacco-pipe, but it was im- 
pofTible for me to make one ; however , I foimd 
a contrivance for thaMoo at laftt 



d by Google 



154 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

I employed myfelf in planting my fecond 
Tows of ftakes or piles , and in this wicker- 
work , all the fummer , or dry feafon ; when 
another bufinefs took me up more time than. 
it could be imagined I could ipare. 

I mentioned before , that I had a great mind 
to fee the whole ifland , and that I had travel- 
led up the brook , and fo on to where I built 
my bower , and where I had an opening quite 
to the fea , on the other fide of the ifland. I 
now refolved to travel quite acrofs to the fea- 
Ihore on that fide : fo taking my gun and hat- 
chet , and my dog , and a larger quantity of 
powder and (hot than ufual , with two bifcuit- 
cakes and a great bunch of raifins in my pouch ,. 
for my ftore , I began my journey, ^^^hen I 
had paflcd the vale where my bower flood ^ 
as above, I came within view of the fea to the 
weft; and it being a very clear day , I fairly 
defcried land , whether an ifland or continent 
I could not tell ; but it lay very high , exten'- 
ding from the W. to the W. S. W. at a very 
great diftance : by my guefs it could not be 
lefs than fifteen or twenty leagues off. 

I could not tell what part of the world this 
might be , otherwife than that I knew it muft 
be part of America : and, as I concluded by 
all my obfervations , muft be near the Spanifli. 
<lominions , and perhaps was all inhabited by 
fiivageSy where, if I fliould have landed , I had 
been in a worfe condition than I was now; 
arid ,. therefore , I acquiefced in the dispofitions 



d by Google 



OF HOBINSON JCRUSOE. 155 

of Providence , which I began now to own , 
and to believe, ordered every thing for the 
beft ; I fay , I contented myfelf with this , and 
left difturbing my mind with fruklefs wiflies of 
farther difcoveries. 

Befides, after fomepaufe upon this affair ,1 con- 
fidered , that if this land was the Spanifli coaft , 
1 fliould certainly , one time or other , fee fome 
▼effels pafs or repafs ^ne way or other ; but 
if not, then it was the favage costft between • 
the Spanifli country and Brazil , which were, 
indeed , inhabited by the worft of favages ; for 
they ar^ cannibals, or^ men-eaters and fail not 
to murder and devour all the human bodies that 
fall into their hands. 

With thefeconfiderationsi walked very lei- 
:^urely forward. I found that fide of the ifland 
ivhere I now was much pleafanter than mine, 
the open or favannah fields fweet , adorned with 
flowers and grafs, and full of very fine woods. 
J faw abundance of parrots , and willingly 
would I have caught one, if pof&ble, tohav€ 
•kept it to bet tame , and taught it to fpeak to 
me. I did, after fome pains catch a young par- 
rot; for I knocked it down with a ftick,and 
.having recovered it , I brought it home, but 
it was fome years before I could make him 
.fpeak. However , at Jaft I taught him to call 
-:me by my name very fhmiliarly : but the acci- 
dent that followed, though a trifle^ will he 
very diverting in it's place. 

1 was exceedingly amufed with this journey ; 



dbyGoogk 



156 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

I found in the low grounds hares, as I thought 
them to be , and foxes , but they differed great- 
ly from all the other kinds I had met with ; 
nor could I fatisfy myfelf to eat them , though 
I killed feveral : but I had no need to be ven- 
turous ; for I was not in want of food , and of 
that which was very good too ; efpecially the{e 
three forts, viz. goats, pigeons, and turtle or 
tortoife; which, added to my graphs, Lea- 
denhall market could not have furnifhed a ta- 
ble better than I , in proportion to the company ; 
and though my cafe was deplorable enough , 
yet I had great caufe of thankfiilnefs , that I 
-was not driven to any extremities for food ; 
but had rather plenty , even to dainties. 

I never travelled in this journey above two 
miles outright in a day , or thereabouts ; but I 
took fo many turns and returns , to fee what 
difcoveries I could make , that I came ^veary 
enough to the place where I refolved to fit do wn 
for all night; and then either repofed myfelf in 
a tree , or furrounded myfelf with a row offta- 
kes fet upright in the ground , either from one 
tree to anorfier , or fo as no wild creature could 
come at me without waking me. 

As foon as I came to the fea-fliore , I was fur- 
prized to fee that I had taken up my lot on the 
worft fide of the ifland ; for here indeed the ftio- 
re wascovered With innumerable turtles , whe- 
reas , on the other fide , I had found but three in 
a year and a half. Here was alfo an infinite 
number of fowls of many kinds, fome of which 

I had 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 157 

i had not feen before , and many of them very- 
good to eat : but fuch as I knew not the names 
of, except thofe called penguins. 

I could have killed as many as I pleafed , but 
was very faring of my powder andfliot ; and 
therefore was more inclined to kill a fhe-goat , 
if I could ^ which I could better feed on ; and 
though there were many goats here more than 
on the other fide of the ifland, yet it was with 
much more difficulty I could come near them ; 
the country being flat and even , they faw me 
much fooner than when I a^sls on the hills. 

I confefs this fide of the country was much 
pleafanter than mine , but yet I had not the leafl: 
inclination to remove : for as I was fixed in my 
habitation, it became natural to me , and I fee*- 
med, all the while I was here , to be , as it we- 
re, upon a Journey , and fi-om home; however, 
1 travelled along the fhore of the fea, towards 
the eaft , I fuppofe , about twelve miles ; ancf 
then fetting up a great pole upon the fliore for a 
mark, I concluded I would go home again ; and 
the next journey I tookfliouldbe on theother 
fide of the ifland , eafl: from my dwelling , and 
fo round till I came to my poft again; of which 
in it's place. 

I took another way to come back than that I 
went , thinking I could eafily keep all the ifland 
fo much in my view , that I could notmifs fin- 
dingmy firflidwellingby viewing the country ; 
hut I foon difcovered my miftake ; for being co- 
me about two or three miles , I found my felf 

VoL L O 



Digitized by VjjOO§IC 



158 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

defcended Into a very large valley ; but fo fur-» 
rounded with hills , and thofe hills covered with 
woods , that I could not fee which was my way 
by any direction but that of the fun , nor even 
then , unlefs I knew very well the pofition of 
the fun at that time of the day. 

It happened , to my farther misfortune , that 
the weather proved hazy for three or four days , 
while I was in this valley; and not being able 
to fee the fun , I wandered about very uncom- 
fortably , and at laft was obliged to find out the 
fea-fide , look for my poft , and come back the 
fame way I went ; and then , by eafy journeys , 
I turned homeward , the weather being excee- 
ding hot ; and my gun , ammunition , hatchet ^ 
and other things ^ very heavy. 

In this journey my dog furprized a young 
kid , and feized upon it ; and I running in to ta- 
ke hold of it , caught it , and faved it alive from 
the dog; I had a great mind to bring it home > 
if I could ; for I had often been mufing whether 
it might not be poflible to get a kid or two , and 
fo raife.a breed of tame goats, which might 
iupply me when my powder and Ihot fliould 
be f{Jent. 

I made a collar to this little creature , and 
with a ftring formed of fome rope-yam , which 
I always carried about me, I led him along ^ 
though with fome difficulty , till I came to my 
bower, and there I inclofed him and left him ; 
for I was very impatient to be at home , from 
whence I had been abfent above a month* 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 159 

I cannot exprefs what fatisfection itgave me, 
to come into my old habitation , and lie down 
in my hammock-bed : this little wandering 
journey , without a fettled place of abode , had 
been fo unpleafant to me , that my own houfe , 
as I called it to myfelf , was a perfect fettlement 
compared to that ; md it rendered every thing 
about me fo comfortable, thati refolved I would 
never go a great way from it again , while it 
ihould be my lot to ftay on the ifland. 

Irepofed myfelf here a week to reft and re- 
gale myfelf after my long journey ; during 
which, moft of the time \fas taken up in the 
weighty affair of making a cage for my Pol , 
who began now to be a mere domeftic , and to 
be mighty well acquainted with me. Then I be- 
gan to think of the poor kid , which I had pent 
in within my little circle, and refolved to go ani 
fetch it home , and give it fome food ; accor- 
dingly I went , and found it where I left it ; for 
indeed it could not get out , but was almoft ftar^ 
ved for want of food ; I >vent and cut boughs 
of trees , and branches of fuch flirubs as I could 
find ^ and threw it over , and having fed it , I 
tied it , as before , to lead it away ; but it vas fo 
tame with being hungry, that I had no need to 
have tied it; for it followed me like a dog; and 
as I continually fed it, the creature grew fo lov- 
ing , fo gentle , and fo fond , that it became from 
that time one of my domeftics alfo , and would 
jiever leave me afterwards, 

Xhe rainy feafon of the autumnal equinoj^ 

O 2 



d by Google 



i6o LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
was now come , and I kept the 30th of Septem-^ 
ber in the fame folemn manner as before , being 
the anniverfary of my landing on the ifland , ha- 
ving now been there two years , and no more; 
profpect of being delivered than the firft day I 
came there. I (pent the whole day in humble 
^nd thankftil acknowledgments of the many 
wonderful mercies which my folitaiy condition 
was attended with , and without which it might 
have been infinitely more miferable. I gave 
humble and hearty thanks , AatGod had been 
pleafed to difcover to me , even that it was pos-» 
fible I might be more happy in this folitary con- 
dition , tfian I fhould have been in the liberty 
of fociety,and in all the pkafures of the world : 
that he could fully make up to me the deficien-^ 
cies of my folitary ftate, and the want of hu-» 
man fociety , by his prefence , and the commu-- 
nication of his grace to my foul , fupporting ^ 
comforting, and encouraging me to depend upon 
his Providence here , and hope for his eternal 
fwefence hereafter. 

It was now that I began fenfibly'to feel how 
much more happy the life I now led was , with 
all it's miferable circumftances , than the wic- 
ked , curfed , abominable life I led all the paft 
part of my days; and now having changed both 
my forrows and my joys , my very defires alte- 
red , my affections changed their guft , and my 
delights were perfectly new , from what they 
were at firft coming , or indeed for tl;ie two 
years paft. 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 5i 

Before, as I walked about, either on my 
hunting , or for viewing the country , the an- 
guifli of my foul ^t my condition would break 
out upon me on a fudden, and my very heart 
would die within ni^ , to think of the woods , 
the mountains, the defarts I wa3 in; and that 
I was a prifoner locked up , with the eternal 
b^rs and bolts of the ocean , in an uninhabited 
wildernefs , without redemption. In the midft 
of the greateft compofures of my mind , this 
would bre^k out upon me like a ftorm , and 
make m^ wring my hands, and weep like a 
child. Sometimes it would take me in the mid- 
dle of my work , and I would immediately fit 
down and figh , ^nd look upon the ground for 
an hour or two together , and this was ftill 
worfe to me ; for if I could burft out into tears , 
or vent my felf by words , it would go off, and 
the grief would naturally abate. 

Byt now I began to e^ercice myfelf with . 
pew thoughts ; I daily read the word of God , 
jmd applied fill the comforts of it to my prefent 
ftate. One morning , being very fad , I opened 
the bible upon thefe words — ^^I will never, 
„ never leaye thee , nor forfake thee ! " Immedia - 
tely it occurred , that thefe words were to me •, 
why elfe fliould they be directed in fuch a man- 
ner , ]Xi{\ ^t the moment when I was mour- 
ning over my condition , as one forfaken of 
- God and men? *> Well , then," faidl, ** if 
„ God does not forfake me , of what ill con- 
^, fequ^nce i^m it b^j or what matters it , thou^ 

3 



d by Google 



j6- LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

V the world fliould all forfake me ; feeing, onj 
„ the other hand , if I had all the w orld , and 
„ (hould lofe the favour and bleffing of God, 
„ there would be no comparifon in the lofs P**^ 

From this moment I began to conclude iu: 
my mind , that it was poffible for me to be 
more happy in this forfaken . folitary condition,^ 
than it ^as probable I fhould have ever been 
in any other particular ftate in the world ; and; 
with this thought I was going to give thanks, 
tp God for bringing me to this place. 

I know not what it was ^ but fomething 
Ihocked my mind at that thought , and I durft 
not fpeak the words. *' How canft thou be fuch. 
„ an hypocrite , *' faid I , even audibly , *' to. 
„ pretend to be thankfiil for a condition, 
,, which, however, thou mayeft endeavour 
„ to be contented with , thou wouldft rather 
,. pray heartily to be delivered from? ''So I 
flopped there; but though I could not fay , I 
thanked God for being there , yet I fincerely 
gave thanks to God for opening my eyes , by 
whatever afflicting providences , tq fee the for-- 
mer condition of my life , and to mourn for 
my wickcdnefs , and repent. I never opened: 
the bible , or Ihut it , but my very foul within 
me bleffed God for directing my friend in En-, 
gland , without any order of mine , to pack: 
it up among my goods ; and for afli fling me 
afterwards to fave it out of th^ wregk of tbQ: 

Thu$;,^ ajid in this difpofition of n>ind,^ £ 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, i^ 

l)egan my third year ; and though I have not^ 
jgiven the reader the trouble of ib particular an 
?LCcount of my works this year as the firfti- 
yet in general , it may be oblerved ,. that I was 
very feldom idl^ ; having regularly divided my 
time , according to the feveral daily employ- 
ments that were before me ; fuch as , Fir ft , My 
duty to God , and reading the Scriptures ^ 
which I conftantly fet apart fome time for , 
thrice every day. Secondly , The going abroad 
with my gun for food , which generally took: 
^e up three hours every morning when it did 
not rain. Thirdly , The ordering , curing , pre- 
ferving, and cooking,, what I had killed or 
catched for my fupply. Thefe took up great 
part of the day ; alfo it is to be confidered , 
that in the middle of the day , when the fun, 
was in the zenith,, the violence of the heat was. 
toa great to ftir out; fo that about four hours, 
in the evening was all the time I could be fup*^ 
pofed to work in; with this exception, that 
fometimes I changed my hours of hunting and! 
working , and went to work in the morning ^ 
;ind "Abroad with my gun in the afternoon. 

To this fliort time flowed for labour , I de-. 
fire may be added the exceeding laborioufnefs 
q{ my work ; the many haurs , which , for 
want of tools , want of help ^^and want of Ikill ^ 
every thing that I did took up out of my time ;- 
for example , I w^ full two and forty days, 
faking me a board for a long flielf , which l[ 
j^y^aiited ia my ciay^i wh^rieakj two fe.wyer$^ 



d by Google 



1(54 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

with their tools and faw-pit , would have cuf 
fix of thejn, out of the fame tree, in half 4 
day. 

My cafe was this : It was to be a large trec^ 
which was to be cut^down, becaufe my board 
was to be a broad one. The tree I was three 
days cutting down , and two more cutting off 
the boughs , and reducing it to a log, or piece 
of timber. With inexpremble hacking and hew- 
ing , I reduced both the fides of it into chips , 
till it began to be light enough to move; then 
I turned it , and made one fule fmqoth and flat 
as a board, from end to ^nd; then turning 
that fide downward, cut the other fide till I 
brought the plank to be about three inches thick, 
and fmooth on both fides. Any one may judge 
the labour of my hands in fiich a piece of 
work; but labour and patience carried me 
through that and many other things ; I only 
obferve this in particular , to (hew the reafon, 
why fo much of my time went away with fo 
little work , viz. that what might be a little to 
be done with help and tools , was a vafl: la- 
bour , and required a prodigious time, to do 
filone ^nd without fuch afliftance. = ^ 

But , notwithftanding this , with patience and 
labour I w^nt through many things, and in- 
deed every thing my circumftances made ne^ 
ceflTary for me to do jj as will appear by what 
fpllovs. 

It W21S new the month of November wheal 
fKpe€t.<?d my crop of twky and ric^t Tb^ 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1(^5 
ground I had manured , or dug up for them , was 
not great ; for, as I obferved , my feed of each 
was not above the quantity of half a peck ; for 
I had loft one whole crop by fowing in the dry 
feafon : but now my crop promifed very well , 
when , on a fudden , I found I was in d^inger of 
lofing it all a^ain by enemies of feveral forts 
which it w^ fcarce poffible to keep from it, as 
firft the goats , and w ild creatures which I caU 
led hares , who tafting the fw^etnefs of the bla- 
de , lay in it night and day , as foon as it cam^ 
up , and eat it 10 clofe , th^t it could get no timQ 
to fhoot up into ftalks. 

This I faw no remedy for but by making an 
inclofure about it with a hedge , w hich I did 
with a great deal of toil ; and the more , becau- 
k it required expedition, the creatures daily 
Spoiling my c-om. However , as my arable land 
was but fmall , fuited to my crop , I got it to-» 
ially well fenced in about thi^ weeks ; and 
(hooting fome of the creatures in the day time , 
fet my dog to guard it in the night, tying him 
up to a ftake at the gate , where he would ftand 
and bark all night long; fo , in a little time , the 
enemies forfook the place, and the corn grew 
very ftrong and well , and began to ripen apace* 

DUt as the beafts ruined mebefore , while my 
com was in the blade, fo the birds were as like- 
ly to ruin me now , when it was in the ear; for 
going along by the place to fee how it throve^ 
I faw my little crop furrounded with fowls of I 
Itnow not how many forts, which flood as 't\ 



d by Google 



i66 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

were watching till I fliould be gone. I immedia* 
tely let fly among them ( for I had always my 
gun with me. ) I had no fooner (hot, but there 
arofe up a little cloud of fowls , which I had not 
ieen at all , from amone the corn itfelf. 

This touched mefennhly , for I forefaw, that 
in a few days they would devour all my hopea, 
that I fhould b^ ftarved , and never be able to 
raife a crop at all ; and what to do I could not 
tell ; however , I refolved not to lofe my corn , 
if poflible , though I fliould watch it night and 
day. In the firil place , I went among it, to fee 
what damage was already done, iind found they 
had fpoiled a good deal of it ; but that , as it was 
yet too gre^n for them, the lofs was not fo great, 
put the remainder was like to be a good crop , 
if it could be faved. 

I flayed by it to load my gun , and then co-» 
ming away , I could eafily fee the thieves fitting 
upon all the trees about me , as if they only wai- 
ted till I was gone away , and the event proved 
it to be fo; for as I walked off, as if I was go-- 
ne , I was no fooner out of their fight , but they 
dropped down one by one into the corn again. 
I was fo provoked , that I could not have pa-r 
tience to flay till more came down , knowing 
that every grain they eat now was , as it might 
be faid , a peck-loat to me in the confequence ; 
but coming up to the hedge , I fired again , and 
killed three of them. This was what I wifliecj 
for; fo I took them up , and feirved them as we 
iferve notorious thieves in England , viz. hange4 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. i6f 

them in chains , for a terror to others. It is im- 
poffible to imagine almoft , that this ftiould ha- 
ve fuch an effect as it had; for the fowls u ould 
not only not come to the com, but in fhort 
they forfook all that part of the ifland , and I 
could never fee a bird near the place as long as 
itiy fcareCrO vvs hung there. 

This I was very glad of, you may be fure ; 
and about the latter end of December , w hich 
Ds^as my fecond harveft of the year, I reaped my 
com. 

I was fadly put to it for a fcythe or a fickle 
to cut it down , and all I could do ^ as to make 
one as well 6s I <:ould out of one of the broad 
fwOrds or cutlaffes , v\ hich I had faved among 
the arms out ofthefhip. Hovever, as my crop 
was but fmall , I had no great difficulty to cut it 
dou n ; in fhort , I reaped it my "way , for I cut 
nothing offbut the ears , and carried it away in 
a great bafket which I had made , and fo rubbed 
it out with my hands ; and at the end of all my 
harvefting , I found , that out of my half-peck 
of feed, I had near two bufliels of rice, and 
above two bufliels and an halfof barley ; that is 
to fay , by my guefs ,' for I had no meafure at 
that time. 

However , diis was a great encouragement to 
me; and I forefaw , that in time it would pleafe 
God to fupply me with bread : and yet here I 
was perplexed again , for I neither knew how to 
gtind or make meal of my corn , or indeed how 
to clean it and part it; nor, if made into meal ^ 



d by Google 



I 



x68 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

how to make bread of it ; and if how to make it^ 
et I knew not how to bake it; Thefe things 
leing added tomydefire of having a good quan** 
tity for ftore , and to feCur^ a conftant fupply , 
I refolved not to tafte any of thiis crop ^ but td 
preferve it all for feed againft the next f;^afon , 
and in the mean time to employ all my ftudy 
and hours of working to accomplilh this great 
vork of providing myfelf »v ith corn and bread*. 

It might be truly (Ad , that no^ v I ^i^ orked for 
ttiy bread. It is a little Tsonderful , and what I, 
believe few people haVe thought much upon , 
viz. the ftrange multitude of little things necef- 
fary in the providing , producing , curing, dref- 
fing , riiaking , and finifiiing , this one article of 
bread. 

I , that was reduced to a mere ftate of nature ^ 
found this to be my daily difcouragement , and 
was made more and more fenfible of it every 
hour , even after I got the firft handful of feed 
corn , which, as I have faid, came up unexpec*- 
tedly , and indeed to my furprize. 

Firft , I had no plough to turn the earth , nor 
fpade or fliovel to dig it. Well , this I conquered 
by making a wpoden fpade , as I obferved be- 
fore ; but this did my work but in a woodett 
manner ; and though it coft me a great many 
days to make it , yet , for want of iron , it not 
only wore out the fooner , but made my work 
thehiarder and much worfe done. 

However , this I bore with , and was content 
to work it out with patience^ and bear with the 

badnefi 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 169 

badneft of the performance. When the com was 
fowed , I had no harrow , but was forced to go 
over it myfelf , and drag a great heavy bough of 
a tree over it , to fcratch thS earth , as it may be 
called , rather than rake or harrow it. 

"When it was growing, or grown , I haveob- 
ferved already how many things I wanted , to 
fence it , fecure it , mow or reap it , cure or car- 
ry it home , threfh , part it from the chaffy and 
fave it. Then I wanted a mill to grind it , fieves 
to drefs it , yeaft and fait to make it into bread , 
and an oven to bake it in ; and all thefe things I 
did without , as fliall be obferved ; and yet the 
corn was an ineflimable comfort and advantage 
to me too ; but all this , as I faid , made every 
thing laborious and tedious to me, but that the- 
re was no help for ; neither was my time fo much 
lofs to me , becaufe I had divided it : a certain 
part of it was every day appointed to thefe 
works ; and as I refolved to ufe none of the corn 
for bread , till I had a greater quantity hy me , 
I had the next fix months to apply myfelf whol- 
ly , by labour and invention , to furoifti my- 
felf with utenfils proper for performing all the 
operations neceflary formakingthecom, when 
I had it, fit for ufe. 

But , firft , I was to prepare more land , for I 
had now feed enoueh to fow above an acre of 
groimd. Before I did this , I had a week's work 
at leaft to make me a fpade , \vhich , when it was 
done, was a very poor one indeed , and being 
heavy , required doublelabour to work with it; 
Voi I. P 



d by Google 



I70 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

however, I went throng riiat , and fowed my 
feeds in two large flat pieces of ground , as near 
my houfe as I could find them to my mind , and 
fenced them in with a good hedge , the flakes 
of which were all cut off that wood I had fet 
before which I knew would grow, (o that in 
one year's time I was fure I fliould have a quick 
or living hedge, that would want hut little re- 
pair. This work was not fo trifling but that it 
took me up at leaft three months , becaufe great 
part of that time was of the wet feafon , when I 
could not go abroad. 

Within-door , that is , when it rained , and I 

could not go out , I found employment on the 

following occafion , always obferving , that all 

thewhile I was at work , I diverted myfelf with 

talking to my parrot , and teaching him to 

fpeak ; and I quickly learned him to know his 

own name; at laft , to fpeak it out pretty loud, 

POL ; which was the firft word I ever heard 

fooken in the ifland by any mouth butmy own. 

This , therefore was not my work , but an aflif- 

tant to my work : for now , as I faid , I had a 

great employment upon my hands , which was 

as follows: I had longftudied, by fome means 

or other , to make myfetf fome earthen veflels , 

which indeed , I greatly wanted, but knew not 

how to come at them : however confidering the 

heat of the climate , I did not doubt but , if I 

could find out any fuch clay , I might botch up 

fome fuch pot , as might , being dried by the 

fun y be hard enough , and ftrong enough to bear 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 171 

handling , and to hold any thing that was dry , 
and required to be kept fo ; and as this was ne- 
ceffary in preparing corn , meal , etc. which uas 
the thing I was upon , I refolved to make fome 
as large as I could , and fit only to ftand like jars 
to hold what fliould be put into them. 

It would make the reader pity me, or rather 
laugh at me, to tell how many awkward ways 
I took to raife this pafte , what odd , mifhapen 
ugly things I made , how many of them fell 
in , and how many fell out , the clay not being 
iliff enough to bear its own weight; how many 
cracked by the over-violent heat of the fun, 
being kt out too haftily, and how many fell 
to pieces , with only removing , as well before 
as after they were dried; and, in a word, 
how , after having laboured hard to find die 
clay , to dig it, to temper it , to bring it home , 
and work it , I could not make above two large 
earthen ugly things, I cannot call them jars, 
in ;J30ut two months labour. 

Ho vvever,as the fun baked thefe two very dry 
and hard, I lifted them gently up, and fet them 
down again in two great wicKcr bafkets , which 
I had made on purpofe for them, that they 
might not break ; and as , between the pot and 
the baiket , there was a little room to fparc , 
I ftufFed it full of the rice and barley ftraw, and 
thefe two being to ftand aU ays dry , I thought 
would hold my corn, and perhaps the meal 
when the corn was bruifed. 

Though I mifcanied fo much in my defign 

P a 



d by Google 



17ft LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

for large pots , yet I made feveral fmaller things 
with better fuccefs •, fuch as little round pots , 
flat difhes , pitchers , and pipkins , and any thing 
my hand turned to; and the heat of the fun 
baked them exceeding hard. 

But all this would not anfwcr my end ; which 
was to get an earthen pot to hold what was 
liquid , and bear the fire , which norle of thefe 
could do. It happened , after fome time , making 
a pretty large fire for cooking my meat , when 
I went to put it out , after I had done with it, 
I found a broken piece of one of my earthen- 
ware veffels in the fire , burnt as hard as a ftonc 
and red as a tile. I was agreeably furprifed to 
fee it, and faidto myfelf, that certainly they 
might be made to burn whole , if they vould 
burn broken. 

This fet me to ftudy how to order my fire^ 
fo as to make it burn me fome pots. I had no 
notion of a kiln fuch as the potters burn in, or 
of ghzing them with lead , though I had fome 
lead to do it with : but I placed three large 
pipkins , and two or three pots , in a pile , one 
upon another , and placed my fire-wood all 
round it , with a great heap of embers under 
them : I plied the fire with frefti fiiel round the 
outfide , and upon the top , till I faw the pots 
in thejnfide red-hot quite through, and obfer- 
ved that they did not crack at all : vi hen I Caw 
them clear red,I let them ftand in that heat about 
five orfix hours, till I found one ofthem, though 
it did not crack , did melt or run ; fgr the faud 



d by Google 



Of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 173 

^hicl^ w^ mixed with the clay , melted by the 
violence of the heat , and would have run into 
glafs , if I had gone on ; fo I flacked my fire 
gradually , till the pots began to abate of the 
red colour ; and watching them all night , that 
I might not let the fire abate too faft , in the 
morning I had three very good , I vill not fay 
handfome pipkins, and two other earthen pots , 
as hard burnt as could be defired ; and one of 
them perfectly glazed with the running of the 
fand. 

After this experiment I need not fay that I 
wanted no fort of earthen-ware for my ufe ; but 
I muft obferve as to thefliapes of them, they 
were very indifferent , as any one may fuppofe , 
when I had no way of making them , but as 
the children make dirt pies, or as a woman 
would make pies th^t never learned to raife 
pafte. 

No joy at a thingoffo meana nature was ever 
equal to mine , when I found I had made an ear- 
then pot that would bear the fire ; and I had 
hardly patience to ftay till they were cold , be- ' 
fore I k\ one upon the fire again , with fome 
water in it , to boil fome meat, which I did ad- 
mirably well -, and with a piece of a kid I made 
fome very good broth , though I wanted oat- 
meal , and feveral other ingredients requifite to 
IBake it fo good as I would have had it. 

My next concern was, to getme aftonemor- 
tar , to ftamp or beat fome com in : for as to the 
giill, th^re vs^ ao thoudit of arriving to that 

P3 



d by Google 



174 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

perfection of art with one pair of hands. To (iip- 
ply this want , I was at a great lofs ; for , of all 
trades , in the world , I w as as perfectly unqua- 
lified for a ftone-cutter , as for any whatfoever ; 
neither had I any tools to go about it with. I 
fpent many a day to find out a great ftone big 
enough to cut hollow , and make fit for a mor- 
tar , and could find none at all , except what was 
in the folid rock, and which I had no way to dig 
or cut out ; nor indeed were the rocks in the is- 
land of hardnefs fufficient , but were all of a fan- 
dy crumbling ftone , vhich would neither bear 
the weight ot an heavy peftle, nor would it break 
the corn without filling it with fand : To , after a 
great deal of time loft in fearching for ftone , I 
gave it over, and refolved to look out a great 
block of hard wood, which I found indeed 
much eafier ; and getting one as big as I had 
ftrength to ftir , I rounded it , and formed it on 
the outfide with my ax apd hatchet ; and then 
with the help of fire , and infinite labour , made 
an hollow place in it , as the Indians in Brazil 
make their canoes. After this , 1 made a great 
heavy ptftle or beater , of the wood called the 
iron-wood, and this I prepared and laid by 
againft I had my next crop of corn , when I pro- 
pofedto myfelf to grind, or rather pound , my 
corn or meal to make my bread. 

My TiQXt difficulty was to make a fieve or 
fierce , to drefs my meal , and part it from the 
bran and the hufk , without which I did not fee 
it poflible I could have any bread. This ^^ ^ 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. I'fs 

jnoft difficult thing, fo much as but to think on; 
for to be fure I had nothing like the neceffary 
things to make it with : I mean ; fine thin can- 
vas , or ftufF to fierce the meal through. And 
here I was at a fiiU flop for many months ; nor 
did I really know what to do ; linen I had none 
left , but what were mere rags ; I had goats 
hair , but neither knew I how to weave or fprn 
it; and had I known how, here were no tool$ 
to work it with : alt the remedy I found for this; 
was , that at laft I did remember I had among 
the feamens cloathes which were faved out of 
the fliip , fome neckcloths of callico or muflin ; 
and with fome pieces of thefel made three fmalj 
fieves^tbut proper enough for the work; and 
thus I made a (jiift for fome years; how I did 
Jifterwards , I fliall fliew in its. place.^ 

The baking part was the next thing to be 
confidered , and how I fliouldmake bread whea 
I came to have corn ; for , firft, I had no yeaft ;: 
as to that part , as there was no fupplying th^ 
want , fo I did not concern myfelf much about 
it. But , for an oven , I was indeed in great pain* 
At length I found out an experiment iox that al-. 
fo , which was this ; I m^de fome earthen vef-^ 
fels very broad , but not deep; that is to fay ^ 
about t ^ o feet diameter , and not above nine in- 
ches deep ; thefe I burnt in the fire , as I had do- 
ne the other , and laid them by ; and when I 
wanted to bake , I made a great fire upon thQ 
hearth , which I had paved with fOme fquate ti-^ 
Ics of my own making and burning alfo : but I 
ihould not call them fquare^ 



d by Google 



176 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

"WTien the fire-wood was burnt pretty much 
into embers or live coals , I drew them forward 
.upon this hearth , (o as to cover it all over; and 
there I let them lie till the hearth was very hot ; 
then fweeping away all the embers , I put down 
my loaf or loaves : and whelming down the ear- 
then pot upon them, drew the embers all round 
the outfide of the pot , to keep in and add to the 
heat; and thus , as well as in the beft oven in the 
world , I baked my barley-loaves, and became 
in a little time a mere paftry-cook into the bar- 
gain ; fori made myfelffeveral cakes of the ri- 
ce , and puddings ; indeed I made no pies, nei'* 
ther had I any thing to put into them , fMppo* 
fing I had , except the flefli either of fo\yls or 
goats. 

It need not be wondered at, If all thefe things 
took mc up moft part of the third year of my 
abode here ; for it is to be obferved, that in the i n- 
tervals of thefe things I had my new harvtft and 
husbandry to manage : for I reaped my corn in 
its feafon , and carried it home as well as I could 
and laid it up in the ear , in, my large balkets , 
till I had time to rub it out ; for I had no floor 
to threfti it on., or inftrument to threfli i^ 
with. 

And now, indeed, my flock of corn encrea- 
fing , I wanted to build my barns bigger : I wan- 
ted a place to lay it up in ; for the increafe of th^ 
corn now yielded me fo much , that I had of th« 
i>arley about twenty bufliels , and of the rice s^ 
much , or more j infomuch , that I now r^o^ 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSO«. 177 

ved to begin to ufe it freely , for my bread had 
been quite gone a great while ; alfo I refolved to 
fee what quantity would be fufficient for me a 
whole year ; and to fow but once a year. 

Upon the whole, I found that the forty buf- 
hels of barley and rice were much more than I 
could confume in a year ; fo I refolved to fow 
juft the fame quantity every year that I fo\ved 
the laft, in hopes that fuch a quantity would ful- 
ly provide me with bread , etc. 

All the while thefe things were doing , you 
may be fure my thoughts ran many times upon 
the profpect otland , which I had feen from the 
other fide of the ifland ; and I was not without 
fecret wiflies , that I was on fliore there , ftincy- 
ing that feeing the main land , and an inhabited 
country, I might find fome way or other to 
convey myfelf farther , and perhaps , at laft , 
find fome means of efcape. 

But all this while I made no allowance for 
the dangers of fuch a condition, and ho w I might 
fell into the hands of favages , and perhaps f^ch 
as I might have reafon to think for worfe than 
the lions and tygers of Africa : that if I once ca- 
me into their power, I fliouldrun a hazard , mo- , 
re than a thoufand to one , of being killed , and 
perhaps of being eaten ; for I had heard that the 
people ofthe Caribeancoafts were cannibals , or 
men eaters ; and I knew by the latitude , that I 
could not be fer off from that fliore : that , fup- 
pofe they were not cannibals , yet they might 
kill me, as many Europeans whphad feUen into 



d by Google 



178 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

their hands had been ferved , even when they 
had been ten or twenty together^ much more 
I , that was but one , and could make little or no 
defence. All thefe things , I fay , which I ought 
to have confidered well of , and which engaged 
my thoughts afterwards , took up none of my 
apprehenfions at firft; and my head ranmigh* 
tily upon the thoughts of getting over to that 
fliore. 

Now I wifhed for my boy Xury , and the 
long-boat with the fhoulder of mutton fail , 
with which I failed above a thoufand miles on 
the coaft of Africa ; but this was in vain. Then 
I thought I would go and look on our fhip's 
boat, which, as I have faid , was blown up upon 
the fliore a great way in the ftorm , when we 
were firft caft away . She lay almofi where fhe 
did at firfl , but not quite ; and was turned , by 
the force of the w^ves and winds , almofi bot* 
tom upwards , againfl the high ridge of beachy , 
rough fand , but no water about her as be- 
fore. 

If I had had hands to have refitted her , and 
have launched her into the water , the boat 
would have done well enough , and I might ha- 
ve gone back into the Brazils with her eafy 
enough ; but I might have eafily foreieen , that 
I could no more turn her, and fet her upright 
upon her bottom , than I could remove the is- 
land. However, I went to the wood , and cut 
levers and roUers,and broughtthem to the boat, 
refolving to try what | could do ; fuggefting to 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 179 

myfelf that if I couldbut turn her down , I might 
eafily repair the damage fhe had received , and 
that flie ^vouldbe a very good boat , and I might 
go to fea in her very eafily . 

I fpared no pains , indeed , in this piece of 
fruitlefs toil , and I fpent, I think , three or four 
weeks about it; atlaft , finding it impoffible to 
heave it up with my little ftrength , I fell to dig- 
ging away the fand to undermine it; and fo to 
make it fell down , fetting pieces of wood to 
thruft and guide it right in the fell. 

But when I had done this , I was unable to 
ftir it up again , or to get under it , much lefs to 
move it forwards tawards the water; fo I was 
forced to give it up : and yet , though I gave 
over the hopes of the boat , my defire to ventu- 
re acrofs the main increafed rather than decrea- 
fed , as the means for it feemed impoffible. 

This at length fet me upon thinking, whe- 
ther it was not poffible to make myfelf a canoe, 
or periagua, fiachas the natives of thofe clima- 
tes make , even without tools , or , as I might 
fay , without hands , viz. of the trurlk of a great 
tree. This I not only thought poffible , but eafy; 
and pleafed myfelf extremely with the thought 
of making it, and with my having much more 
convenience for it than any of the negroes or 
Indians; but not at all confidering theparticular 
inconveniencies which 1 lay under more than 
the Indians did , viz. want of hands to move it 
itito the water when it was made; a difficulty 
much harder for me to furmount , than all the 



d by Google 



i8o LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

confequences that want of took could be to 
them : for what was it to me , that when I had 
chofen a vaft tree in the woods , I might with 
great trouble cut it do wn,if after I might be able 
■with my tools to hew and dub the outfide into 
a proper fliape of a boat , and burn or cut out 
the infide to make it hollow , (b as to make a 
boat of it ; if, after all this , I muft leave it juft 
where I found it , and was not able to launch it 
into the water ? 

One would have thought I could not have 
had the leaft reflection upon my mind from this 
circumftance , while I was making this boat , 
but I fliould have immediately thought how I 
Ihould get it into the fea ; but my thoughts we- 
re fo intent upon my voyage over the fea in it , 
that I never once confidered how I fliould get 
it off the land ; and it was really in its own na- 
ture more eafy forme to guide it over forty -five 
-^ miks of fea^ than about forty-five fethoms of 
land , where it lay , to fet it afloat in the 
water. 

I went to work upon this boat the moft like 
a fool that ever man did , who had any of his 
fenfes awake. I pleafed my felf with the defign , 
without determining whether or not I was sJ^le 
to undertake-it ; not but that the diflSculty of 
launching my boat came often into my head ; 
but I put a flop to my own enquiries into it , by 
this foolifli anfwer which I gave my felf — " Let 
„ me firft make it , I'll warrant I'll find fomc 
„ way or other to get it along when it is done ". 

This 

Digitized by VjjOOQIC 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOfe. iSi 

Yhis was a mod prepofterous idea , but the 
eagernefs of my fancy prevailed , to work t 
went , and felled a cedar tree : I queflion much 
whether Solomon ever had fuch an one for the 
building the temple at Jerufalem; jt was five feet 
ten inches diameter at the Ioa er part next the 
ftump , and four feet eleven inches diameter at 
the end of twenty-two feet , after which it lef- 
fened gradually and then parted into branches ; 
it was not without infinite labour that I felled 
this tree : I was twenty days hacking and he- 
wing it at the bottom : I was fourteen m.ore get- 
ting the branches and limbs, and the vaft iprea- 
ding head of it cut off; which I hacked and he- 
wed through with my ax and hatchet. After this 
it coft me a month to fliape it , to bring it to a 
proportion , and to fomething like the bottom 
of a boat , that it might fwim upright as it ought 
to do. It coft me near three months more to cjeai* 
the infide , and work it out , fo as^to make an 
exact boat of it : this I did , indeed y wathout fire^ 
by mere mallet and chiflel , and by the dint of 
hard labour , till I had brought it to be a very 
fiandfome periagu^ , and big enough to have car- 
ried fix-and-twenty men, and confequently 
big enough to have carried me and all my 
cargo. 

When I had gone through this work, I was 
extremely delighted with it : the boat was real- 
ly much bigger than I ever faw a canoe or peria- 
gua, that was made of one tree in my life ; and 
many a weary ftroke it had coft me,you mav he 
Vol. I. Q 



d by Google 



i82 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

fure. There remained nothing but to get it Ihto 
the water , which ha^ I been able to effect , I 
make no doubt but I (liOuld havebegtui the mad- 
deft voyage , and the moft unlikely to be perfon- 
med , that ever was undertaken. 

But all my devices to get it into the w ater 
foiled me , though they coft infinite labour too*; 
it lay about one hundred yards from the watet, 
and not more; but the firft inconvenience'^ as , 
it was up hill tow ards the creek. Well , to take 
away this difcourag^ment , I refotved to dig 
into the furface of the earth y and fo make a de- 
clivity ; this I began ^ and it coft me a prodi- 
gious deal of pains : but v^ho wHl grudge pain^ , 
that have their deliverance in view ? But when 
this vas worked through, and this difficulty 
removed, it was ftill much the fame; for I 
could no more ftir the canoe , than I could the 
,other boat. 

I then meafured the diftance of ground , and 
refolved to cut a dock ^ or canal , to bring the 
water up to the canoe , fceiAg I could not bring 
the canoe down to the water. Well , I begaft 
this v\ ork j and when I entered into it , and cal- 
culated how deep it was to be dug, how broad , 
how the fluff to be thrown out , I found , that 
by the number of hands I had , being none 
t>ut my own , it muft hafve beerl ten or twelve 
y^ars before I ftiould have gqtie through with 
It ; for the fhore lay high ^ fo that, at the up- 
per end , it muft have been it leaft twenty feet 
deep. In confequence of thefe difficulties , I 



d by Google 



OF ROBIIiSON CRUSOE. 183 

gave up 9iji thoughts of getting my veffelinto 
the wafer, 

Thi^ grieved me heartily; and now I faw, 
though too late , the foily of beginning a work 
^fore we count the coft , and before we judge 
rightly of our own ftrength to go through 
with it. 

While proftcuting this work I finiflied my 
fourth year in this ifland , and kept ray anni- 
verfary \uth the fanie devotion , and with as 
much comfort a$ ever before ; for by a conftant 
ftudy , and ferious application of the word of 
Qod , and by the affiftance of his grace , I gai- 
ned a different knowledge from what I had be- 
fore; I entertained different notions of things ; 
I looked new upon the world as a thing re- 
mote , v\ bich I had nothing to do with , no ex * 
pectation from , and indeed no defires about. 
In a \vprd , I had nothing indeed to do with it , 
t>or was ev^r like to have ; fo I thought it loo- 
ked 9 ^ ^^ perhaps may look upon it hereafter , 
viz. as a place I had lived in , but was come out 
of; and well might I fay , as Father Abraham 
faid to Dives -^ ^^ Between me and thee there 
^ is a great gulph fixed. " 

In the firft place I was removed from all the 
wickednefs of the world here : I had neither 
the " Luft of the flefli , the luft of the eye , or 
.t the pride of life : *' I had nothing to covet , 
for I had all I was now capable of enjoying : I 
w as lord of the whole manor , or , if I pleafed , 
I might gall myfelf king y or emperor over the 

Q 2 



d by Google 



l84 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

V hole country which I bad pofleflion of : there 
were no rivals. I had no competitor , none 
to difpute fovereignty or command with me, 
I might have raifed fliip«loadings of com , but 
I had no ufe for it : fo I let as little grow as 
I thought enpuglx for my occafion : I had tor- 
toifes or turtles enough ; but now and then one 
was as much as I could put to any ufe. I had 
timber enough to have built a fleet of fliips; 
I had grapes enough to have made wine, or 
have cured into raifins , to have loaded that 
fleet when they had been built. 

But all I could make ufe of, was what was 
valuable. I had enough to eat , and to fupply 
my wants , and what was all the reft to me ? 
if I killed more flefh than I could eat , the dog 
n\uft eat jt, or the vermin; if I fowed more 
corn thw I could eat , it muft be fpoiled : the 
trees that I cut down were lying to rot on 
the ground , I could make no more ufe of then\ 
than for fuel ; and that I had no occafion for, 
but to drefc my fqod. 

In a y\ord , the nature and experience of 
things dictated to me , upon juft reflection , 
that all the good things of this world are no 
farther good to us , than they are for our ufe ; 
and that whatever we may heap up , indeed , 
to give others , we enjoy as much as we can 
ufe , and no more. The moft covetous griping 
n[iifer in the \vorld would have been cured of 
the vice of covetoufnefs , if he had been in my 
cafe ; for I poffefled infinitely more than I knew 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 185 
what to do with; I had no room for defire , 
^3KC€pt it was of things which I had not , and 
they were but trifles , though indeed of great 
^k tQ me.. I had, as I hin&d before, a parcel 
pf money , as well gold as filver, about thir- 
ty-fix pounds flerlmg : alas ! there the nafty , 
for^y , ufeiefs fluff lay ; I had no manner of 
ufe for it ; and I often thought with myfelf , 
that I would have given a handful of it for a 
grofs of tobacco-^pipes , or a handrail 1 to grind 
9iy com : nay, I woM have given it all for 
iix^eimy-vV'Orth of turnep and carr^ feed out 
of ^gland , or for a handfol of peas and 
beans , and a bottle of ink. As it was , I had not 
tlie kaft advantage by it, or benefit from it; 
feut there it lay in a ^awer , and grew moul- 
dy with the damp q£ the cave, in the wetfea- 
^;mid;if I haa had the drawer full ofdia^ 
jnonds , it had Jieen the fame cafe ; and they 
had beesi of no valus^ t^ me , becaufe of no 

I had now brought my ftate of life to be 
m^teh eafier in itfeif than it was at firft , and 
mijch eafier to my mind as well as to my bo- 
dy. I frequently iat down to my meat with 
thankfulne& , and admived the hand c4 Gods 
providence , whidi had thiis (pread my table 
in the wildeme6 : Ilearned to look more upon 
tfee bright fi^ of my condition , and lefs upon 
1^ dark-lide ; and toi confider what I enjoyed , 
rather than what I wanted : and this gave ma 
fomedcB^ fiich fecrec comibrts, that I cannjc 

Q 3 



d by Google 



l86 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

exprefs them; and which I take notice of here ^ 
to put thofe difcontented people in mind 
of it , who cannot enjoy comfortably what 
Go4 hath given them , bccaufe they fee and 
covet fpmething that he has not given them., 
^11 our difcpntents about what we want ap-? 
pear to me to fpring from the want of thank-i 
fiilnefs for what we have. 

Another reflection was of great ufe to me , 
and doubtlefs would be fo to any one that 
fliould fidl itito fiich diftrefs as mine was ; and 
this was to compare my prefent condition with 
what I at firft expected it fhould be ; nay , 
with what it would certainly have been, i^ 
the good Providence of God had not wonder- 
ftilly ordered the Ihip to be caft up nearer ta. 
the fliore, wber^ I not only could come at her 
but could bring what I got out of her to the 
fhore for iny relief and comfort ; without which 
I. had wanted tools, to work, weapons for de- 
fence, or gun-powder and (hot for getting my 
food. ^^ V ' 

I fpent whole hours , f may fay whole days ^ 
in repref^nting to myfelf in the moft lively co*- 
lours, ho^v I muft have acted, if I haa got 
nothing out of the fliip ; I reflected that I could 
not have fo much as got any food , except 
fifji and turtles ; and that , as it was long be-t 
fore I found any of them , I mufl: have perif-^ 
h^d firft : that I fliould have lived, if I had 
|i^t periflied , like a mere favage ; that if I had 
fcUed a goat or a fowl by any contrivance, | 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 187 

had no way to flea or open them , or part the 
flefli from the (kin and the bowels ,, or to cut 
it up ; but muft gnaw it with my teeth, ancj 
pull it with my cl^ws, like a beaft. 

Thefe reflections made |ne very fenfible of 
the goodnefs of Providence , apd very thank-* 
fill for my prefent condition , with all its hardT 
(hips and misfortunes : and this part alfo I 
cannot but recommend to the r^flectioii of thofe 
whq are apt in their mifery to fay — '' h 
„ any aflSictipn like mine ? " Let them con- 
ifider how much w orfe the cafes of fome peo- 
ple are, and wh^t th^ir cafe might have been 
if it had been the will of Prpvioence. 

I had another reflection which aflifted m(? 
alfo to comfort my mind with hopes ; and thif 
was , comparing my prefent condition with 
what I had deferved , and had therefore rear 
fon to expect from the hapd of Providence ; 
I had lived a deadfiil life , perfectly ^eftitut? 
pf the knowledge and fear of God \ I had been 
well inftructed by father and mother ; neither 
]bad they been wanting to me in their early 
fndeavours to infufe a religous awe of Go4 
into my mind , ^ f^nk of my duty , and of 
.\vhat the nature anjd end of my bei^g requi- 
red of me : but , ^ila^ ! falling early into the 
fea-fering life , which of all others makes meii 
the moft deftjti^te of the ^ar of God , though 
bis terrors afe alw ays before them ; I fay ^ 
felling early into the fea^faring life , and intp^, 
fe^-^^ing company , all that little fe»f§ 9f r^JH 



d by Google 



i88 LIFE AND ADVENTURES. 

gion , which I had entertained , was laughed 
out of me by my meiEnates ; by an hardened 
defpifing of dangers , and fhe views of death 
which grew habitual to me ; by my long ab* 
fence from all manner of opportunities to eon- 
yerfe with any thing but what was like my- 
felf , or to hear any thing of what was good , 
or tended towards it. 

So void was I of every thing that was good, 
or of the leaft {enk of what I was , or was to 
be , that in the greateft deliveranj:^ I enjoyed , 
fuch as my efcape from Sallee , my being ta- 
ken up by the Port«guefe 4nafter of the ftip ^ 
my being planted fo well in Brazil , my re- 
ceiving the cargo from England, and the 1 ike ^ 
I never once had the words ** Thank God, ** 
fo much as on my mind , or in my mouth : 
nor in the greateft diftrefs had I fo much thought 
as to pray to him , nor fo much as to fay ^ 
„ Lord have mercy upon me I ^ No 5^ not to 
mention the name of God , unkfs it was to 
fvear by , and blafpheme it, 

I had terribk reflections upon my mind for 
many months , as I have already obferved , 
on account of my wicked and hardened pad 
life ; and when I looked about me , and con- 
fidered what particular providerKes had atten- 
ded me , fince my coming into this place , and 
4hat God had dealt bountiftilly wkh me; had 
not only puniflied me lefs than my iniquity 
deferved , but had fo plentifully provided for 
rae J this gave me great hopes , ^at mf repeiin 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 189 

tance w as accepted , and that God bad yet n^-^ 
cies in ftore for me. 

With thefe reflections I worked my mind up ^ 
not only to tefignation to the will of God in the 
prefent difpofition of iny pircumftances , but 
even to a fincere thankfulnefs of my condition ; 
and that I , who was yet a living man , ought 
not to complain , feeing I had not the due pu-* 
pilhment of my fins; that I enjoyed fo many- 
mercies , which I had no reafon to have expec-* 
ted in that place ; that J ought never more to 
repine at niy condition , but to rejoice and give 
daily thanks , for that daily bread , vhich no-% 
thing butacloud of wonders could have brought : 
that I ought to confider I had been fed , even 
by a miracle , as great as that of feeding Elijah 
hy ravens; nay , by a long feries of miracles | 
^d that I could hardly have named a place in 
the uninhabited part of the world , where J 
could have been caft more to my advantage ; 
a place where , as I had no fociety , which was 
my affliction on one hand , fo I found no ra- 
venous beafts , no furious volves or tygers , to 
threaten my lijfe; no venomous or poifonous 
creatures which I might hav€ fed on to my 
hurt ; no fkvages to murder and devour me. 

In a word , as my life was a life of forrow 
one way , fo it was a life of mercy another ; and 
I wanted nothing to make it a life of cctn fort ^ 
but to be able to make my fenfe of God's good- 
nefs to me , and care over me in this condition , 
be my daily cpnfolation ; and after I made %^ 



d by Google 



ipo LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

jufl: improvement of thcfe things , I went away, 
and was no more dejected. 

I had now been here (6 long , that many- 
things which I brought on fliore for my help , 
were either quite gone, or very much wafted , 
5ind near fpent. 

My ink , as I obferved , had been gone for 
fonje time , all but a very little , which I eeked 
out with water a little and a little , till it was fo 
'^ale it fcarce left any appearance of black upon 
the paper. As long as itiafted I made ufe of it to 
minute down the days of the month on which 
any remarkable thing happened tome; and firft, 
by cafting up times paft , I remember , that ther? 
was a ftrange concurrence of days , in the 
various providences which befelme, and which, 
if I had been fuperftitioufly inclined to obftr- 
ve days as^fetal or fortunate , I might have had 
leafon to have looked upon with a ereat deal of 
curiofity, 

Firft , I had obferved , that the fame day I 
broke away from my father and my friends , 
and ran away to Hull , in order to go to fea , 
the fame day afterwards I was taken by the 
Sjallee man of war , and made a flave. 

The fame day of the year that I efcaped out 
of the wreck of that fliip in Yarmouth-Roads , 
that fame day of the year afterwards I made my 
efcape from Sallee in the boat. 

The fame day of the year on which I was 
bom, viz. the 2 cth of September, the fame day 
I had my life fo miraculoufly faved twenty-fix 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 191 

years after , when I w as caft on (hore in this is- 
land : fo that my wicked life , and folitary life , 
both began on a day. 

The next thing to my ink being wafted , was 
that of my bread; I mean , the bifcuit which I 
brought out of the Ihip. This I had husbanded 
to the laft degree, allowing myfelf but one 
cake of bread a day for above a year ; and yet I 
vas quite without bread for a year, before I 
got any corn of my Oun; and great reafon I 
had to be thankful that 1 had any at a! 1 , the get- 
ting it being , as had beenalrtady obferved , next 
to miraculous. 

Mv clothes too began to decay : as to linen, 
I had been without it fome time , except fome 
checked fliirts v hich I found in the chefts of the 
other feamen , and which I carefully preferved, 
becaufe many times I could wear no other 
cloaths on but a fliirt ; and it \\ as a great help to 
me , that I had , among all the mens cloaths of 
the fhip , almoft three dozen of Ihirts, There 
werealfo feveral thick watch-coats of the fea- 
men , which were left behind , but they were 
too hot to wear; and though it is true the wea- 
ther "^as fo violent hot that there was no need 
of cloath , yet I could not go ^uite rtakcd ; no , 
thoughHlhad been inclined to it , which I was 
not ; nor could bear tke thoughts of it, though 
i \ya$ all alone. 

One reafon why I did not chc ofe to go quite 
naked was , I coukl not bear the heat of the fun 
fo well when quite naked , as with fome cloaths 



d by Google 



192 LIFE And Ai^vfir^Tunes 

on; nay , the very heat frequently bliftered my 
(kin ; whereas , with a fliirt on , the air itfelf 
made fome motion, and whift'irig under the 
fliirt , was twofold cooler than without it : no 
more could I ever brirtg myfelf to go out in th^ 
heat of the fun -, without a cap or ah hat ; the 
heat of the fun beating with fuch violence as it 
does in that place, would give me the head-ach 
prefently , by darting fo directly on my head^ 
that I could not bear it ; whereas , if I put oii 
my hat, it would foon gO away* 

From thefe reafons I was induced , accordin- 
gly , to confider about putting the few raas I 
had , which I called cloaths , into fome order : 
I had worn out all the wai ftcoa ts , and my bu-^ 
finefsvwas now to try if I could not make jac- 
kets out of the great watch-coats^ and with fuch 
Other materials as I had. I fet to wOrk t^ylorfng^^ 
or rather , indeed botching : for I made moft pi-»- 
teous work of it. However , I contrived to ma*- 
ke two or three waiftcoats ^ which I hoped 
would krve me a great while ; as for breeches , 
or drawers , I made a very poor effort , indeed. 

I have mentioned , that I faved the flcins of 
all the creatures I killed , I meari four-footed 
ones ; and I had hung them up ftretched oirt 
with fticks in the fun , by which means fome of 
them were fo dry aild hard ^ that they were of 
little ufe ; but others were very ferviceable. 

The firftthingi rfiade of thefe was a great cap 
for my head , with the hair ofi the Outfide to 
flioot off the rain ; and this I performed fo well^ 

that 



d by Google 



Tom IVaa.iOQ 




K^o^izJh <fbu^. 



d by Google 



i^ 



dbyGoogk 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 193 

that I afterwards made a fuit of deaths wholly 
of thofe (kins ; that is to fay^ a waiftcoat and 
breeches open-atthe knees, and both loofe ; for 
they were rather wanting to keep me cool, 
than to keep me warm, I muft not omit to ack- 
nowledge, that they-were wretchedly made; 
for , if I was a bad carpent^ , I was a worfc 
taylor ; however ,-^they were fuch asl made a 
very good Ihift with ; and when I w as abroad , 
if it happened to rain^ the hair of the waiftcoal 
and cap being outermoft , I was kept veiy dry. 
After this I ipent a ^al of time and pains to 
make mean umbrella^ of which , indeed, I was 
in great want. I had feen them made in theEra- 
;2ils , ^here they are very ufeful in the great 
Jheats of that part of the world; and I felt the 
heats every jot as great here, and greater too^ 
beingnearer the equinox ; befides , as I was obli- 
ged to be much abroad , it was a moft ufeful 
.thing to me , as well for the rains as the heats. I 
<took great pains at it, and was a long while be- 
fore I could make any thing likely to hold ; 
nay , after I thought I had hit the way ,1 fpoi- 
•lea two or three before I made one to my mind ; 
but , at laft, I made one tbatanfwered indiffe- 
rently well; the main difficulty I found was to 
make it let down. I could make it to fpread; but 
if it did not let down tao, and draw in, it 
would not be portable forme any way.,but jifft 
ever my head , whj^h would not do t hov - 
ever , atlaft , as I faid , I made one to anfwer ; I 
.covered it withikins , the hair .up wards , fo that 
VqLJ. . . R 



d by Google 



^^4- LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

it caft off the tain like a pent-houfe , and kept 
off the fiin Co effectually , that I could v^alk out 
in the hotteft of the >\ eather , ^ ith greater ad- 
vantage than I could before in the cooleft ; and 
*when I had no need of it , I could clofe it , and 
carry it under my arm. 

Thus I lived very comfortably $ my mind 
being entirely compofed by refigning myfelfto 
the will of God^and throwing myfelf wholly 
Upon the di(pofal of his^ providence ; this muot 
my life better than fociable ; for , when I began 
to regret the want of converfation , I w ould aik 
myfel^ whether thus converfing mutually with 
my owh thoughts y and , as I hope ,1 may fay, 
xvith even my Maker , by ejaculations and pe- 
titions , was not better than the utmoft enjoy- 
ment of human fociety in the world. 

I cannot fay , that after this , for five years , 
any exeraord^ary thing happened to me ; but I 
lived on in the^fame courfe, in the fame ftatc 
: and place , Juft ^ before ; the chief thing I was 
employed in , befides my yearly labour of plan- 
ting my barley and rice-, and curing my rai- 
/: fins, of both wnichi always kept up juft enough 
• to kive fufficient (lock of the year's provifions 
beforehand';.! fay , befides thi^ yearly labour , 
and my daily labour of going Out with my gun, 
I had a laborious tafk to make me a canoc , 
which at laft I finiflied; fo that by digging a ca- 
!-"nal to it fix feet wide and four feet deep, I 
brought, it into the creek almoft half a mile. As 
for the iiril^ it was by. for tod large , having 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 195 
niade it without confidering beforehand, as. I 
oaght to have done, how I fhould be able to 
launch it; in cot^equence ofwhicli-, not being 
able to bring it to the waficr , or the water to it, 
1 ivas obliged to let it lie wbereitwaj(,asaiiie^ 
morandum to teach me to be wifer next time^ 
Iiideed , the next time , though I could not get 
a tree proper for it , and was in a place where I 
could not get the water to it, at any le(s dif- 
t^ce than , as I have faid , of near half a mile; 
yet , as I faw it was practicable I never .gave it 
over till I had accomplifhed it;and though I was 
near two years about it, yet I never grudged my 
labour, in hopes ofhavinga^boat wi^ vhidi 
I imght proceed to Tea. 

However , thau|^ npiy littte pcriagua was 
ifiinflied , yet the fize of it wa$ net at all anfwe- 
rable to die defign, which I hadia vif w when I 
made the firft; I mean, c^ ventwing onier to 
the terra firma , wbere^it was ab^ve mrt^ mi- 
les broad ; accor^ngly , the imaUnefs of vxy 
boat affifted to put ^n end to that dp%n , and 
now I thought no mpre of it; but, a^ I had a 
boat , my next defign was to make a tow round 
the ifland ; for , as I had been on the other fide , 
in one place , croffing , as I have already def- 
cribed it, over the land : fo the difcoveries I ma- 
d^ in that journey made me very eager to fee 
the other parts of the coaft ; and now I had a 
boat , I thought of nothing but failing round 
the ifland. 

For this purpofe, and tliati might do every 

R a 



d by Google 



196 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

thing with difcretion and confideration , I fit* 
ted up a tittle maft to my boat, and made me a 
iail to it out of fome of the pieces of the fhip^ 
ikils , which lay in ftore , and of which! had a 
great quantity by me. 

Having fitt€d mymaftand faif, and tried the 
boat, I found flie would fail very well : I then 
made little lockers and boxes at either end of 
my boat , to put provifions , neceffaries , am- 
munition , etc. into,tobe kept dry, either from 
rain , or the fpray of the fea ; and I cut in the 
infide of the boat, a little, long, hollow plst- ^ 
ee, where I could lay my guil , making a fl^p 
. to hang down over it to keep it dry. 

I fixed my umbrella alfo in a ftep at the ffem,' 
like a maft', to ftand over my head , and keep 
the heat of the fun off me like an awning ; and 
thus fevcry now and^then took a fmall voyage^ 
tipon the fea, but never went far from the 
creek. At laft^, being eager to view the circum- 
ference of my little kingdom , I refolved upon 
my tour, and accordingly victualled my (hip^ 
for the voyage ; putting in two dozen of my loa- 
ves (cakes I fliouM rather call them ) ofbarley- 
- bread ; an earthen pot full ofparched rice , ( a 
food of which leat a great deal )ra fmall bottte 
of rum : half a goat , and powder with fhot for 
killing more : and two large watch coats , of 
thofe which , as I mentioned before , I had fa- 
ved out of the fcaitiens chefls ; thefe I took, one 
to lie upon , and the other to cover me in the 
nighft^ 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE; 197 

It was the fixth of November , in the fixth 
year of my reign , or my captivity , which ypu 
pleafe , that I fet out on the voyage ; and I found* 
it much longer than I expected ; for though the 
ifland itfelf was not very large , yet , whei> I 
came to the eaft-fide of it, I found a great ledge 
of rocks lie out about two leagues into the 
fea , fome above water , fome under it ; and be- 
yond this , a (hoal of fand , lying dry half a lea- 
gue more; fo that I was obliged to go a great 
way out to fea to double that point. 

When I firftdifcovered them ,1 was going tp 
give over my enterprize, and come back again , 
not knowing how fer it might oblige me to gp 
out to fea; and, above all, doubting hpw I 
ihould get b^ck again ; fo I came to an anchor , 
for I had made me a kind of anchor with a, piec? 
of broken grappling which I got out of th^ il^ipt. 

Having fecured my boat, I took my gun, 
and went on (hore, climbing up an hill , which 
feemed to overlook that point , where I faw 
the full ex tent of i t , and refolved to venture. 

In viewing the fea from that hill where I 
ilaod , i perceived a ftroqg , and indeed a moft 
furious current, which ran totheeaft , and even 
came clofe to the point; ajid I took the more 
jiotice of it , becaufe I fav there might be fom^ 
danger , that when I came into it , I might be 
carried out to fea by its ftrength , and not b^ 
able to make the ifland again ; and , indeed , bad 
I not gotten firftupon thi$ hill, I beJieve it 
jrould have bepn- foj fo; ^^. W^K^h^ few 

R 3 



d by Google 



198 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

current on the other fide of the ifland, only that 
it fet off at a farther diftance; and I faw there 
was a ftrong eddy under the fliore ; fo I had' no- 
thing to do* but to get out of the firft current , 
and I fhould prefently Be in an eddy. 

I lay here , however , two days ; becaufe the 
■wind mowing pretty frefh ( E. at S. E. and that 
being juft contrary to the feid current ) madfe a 
great breach of the fea upon the point ; fo that it 
was not fefe for me to keep too clofe to the Ihore 
for the breach ytior to go too hi off becaufe o£ 
tfie ft ream. 

The third day , in the morning , the vind 
having abated over night, the fea was calm^ 
and I ventured ; but no fooner did I reach the 
point , when even I was not my boat's length 
from the fliore , than I foimd myfelf in a great 
depth of water 5 and a current like a fluice of a 
liiill ; it carried my boat along vithit with fucb 
violence, that all I could do could'not keep her 
jfo-much as on the edge of it ; but I found it hur- 
ried me farther and farther out from the eddy, 
which was on the lefthand. There Vas no wind 
ftiring to help me , and all I could do with my 
paddle fignrfied nothing; and now I Began to 
give myfelf over for loff ; for, as the current 
was on both fides the ifland , I knew in a few 
leagues diftance they muff join again , and then 
I was irrecoverably gone ; nor did I fee any 
poflibility of avoiding it; fb that I had no prof- 
pect before me but of perifhing ; not by the fea ^ 
for Aat vas calm enough , but of ffarving fiaj 



d by Google 



OF ROBINS OK CRUSOE, i^ 

hunger. I had indeed found a tortoife on the 
(hore, as big almoft as T could lift, and had tof- 
fed it into the boat; and I hada great jar of frefh 
vater , that is to fay , one of my earthen pots; 
but what was all this to being driven into the 
vaft ocean , where , to be fure , there was ne 
ihore , no main land or ifland , for a thoufand 
leagues at leafi. 

And now I fawhow eafy it was for the provi- 
dence of God to make the mofl miferable con- 
dition that mankind could be in ^ worfe.-Now 
I looked back upon my defblate folitary ifland:, 
as the moft pleafant place in the world , and all 
the happinefs my heirt could wifh for ^. was to 
be there again. I ftretched out my hands to it 
with eager wiflies :/' O happy deiartj ** faid I^ 
„ I fhall never fee thee more ! O miferable crear 
„ tare ! " faid I , " whiter am I gping I" Then. 
I reproached myfelf with my unthankful tem*- 
per, and how I had repined at my folitary con- 
dition ; and now what would I give to be. oa 
ftiore there again ! Thus we never fee the true 
ftate of our condition , till it is illuffrated to us 
by its contraries v nor know how to value what 
we enfoy , but by the want of it : it is fcarce 
poflible to imagine the confternation I was now 
in , being driven from my beloved ifland ( for 
fo it appeared to me now to be ) into- the wide 
ocean , almoft two leagues y and in the utmoft 
defpair of ever recovering it again : however ^ 
I worked hard , till indeed my ftrength was al<- 
moft exhauffed j and kept my boat as much to 



d by Google 



200 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

the northward , that is , towards the fide of the 
current which the eddy lay on , as poffibly I 
could; when , about noon , as the lun paued 
the meridian , I thought I feft a little breeze of 
wind in my face , fpringing up from the S. S. £• 
This cheered my heart a little^ and efpecially 
when , in about half an hour more , it blew a 
pretty fmall gentle gale : by this time I v. as 
gotten at a fiightftil diftance from the ifland ; 
and , had the leaft cloud or hazy weather inter- 
vened 5 J had been undone another way too; 
for I had no compafs on board , and fliould never 
have known how to have fleered towards the 
ifland if I had once loft fight of it ; but the wea- 
ther continuing clear , I applied myfelf to get 
up my maft again , and fpread my fail , (lan- 
ding away to the north , as much as poflible , 
to get out of the<:urrent. 

Juft as I had fet my maft and fail, and the Bpat 
began to ftretch away, I faw, even by the clear- 
nefs of the water , fome alteration of the cur- 
rent was near; for where the current was fo 
ftrong, the water was foul ; but perceiving the 
\vater clear , Ifound the current abate ; ancTpre- 
fently I difcovered to the eaft , at about lialf a 
tnile, a breach of the feaupon fome r6c;ks ; thefe 
tocks I fo\ir\A caufed the current to part again ; 
and as the main ftrefs of it ran away more fou- 
therly , leaving the rocks to the N. E. fo the 
other returned by the repulfe of the rock , and 
made a ftrOng eddy , which ran tack again to 
the N. Vt with' a very (harp ttceam, • 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, aoi 

Thofe who know what it is to have a re»- 
pricve brought them upon the ladder , or to be 
refcued frpm thieves juft going to murder thenj^ 
or who have been in fuch like extremities, n ay 
guefi what my prefiintfurprize of joy was, rnd 
how gladly I put my boat into the ftream of this 
eddy; and the windalfo freftiening, how gladly 
I fpread my fail to it, running chearfully be»- 
-fore the wind, and with aftroiig tide, or eddy 
under foot. 

This eddy carried me about a league in my 
way hack again , directly towards the ifland, 
but about two leagues more towards the north- 
ward than the current lay, which carried me 
away at firft ; fo that. when I came near the"is>- 
land ,1 found ntyfelf open to the northern (hore 
of it , that is to lay , the other end of the ifland, 
oppofite to that which I went out from. 

When I had made foinething more than a 
league of way by the help of this current or 
eddy, I found it was fpent , and aflifted me no 
farther. However , being between the two gtSat 
currents, viz. that on the fouth-fide, which ^ 
Had hurried me away, and that on the north^.. 
which lay about two leagues on the other fide ; 
I fay, between fhefe two , in the weft of the is^ 
land, I found the water at leaft ftill,,and run^ 
ning no way ; and having ftill a breeze of wind 
fair fox me , I kept on fleering directly for the 
Hland , though not making fuch frelh way as 4 
did before. 

About fo^r o'ctock in the afternoon , being^^ 



d by Google 



aoa LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

then within about a league of the ifland , I found- 
the point of the rocks which occafioned this 
diftance ftretching out , as is defcribed befor^ , 
lo the fouthward , and , cafting off the currei\t* 
more foutherly , had , of courfe , made another 
eddy to the north , and this I found very ftrong, 
but not directly fetting the way my courfe lay > 
which was due weft, but almoft fiiU north. 
However , having a frefh gale , I ftretchetl 
acrofe this eddy, flahting north- weft ^ and in - 
about an hour came within about a mile of the 
ftore, where , it being^ fmooth water , I foon '^ 
got to land* 

When r was on (here, Ifell otntty kne» ,> 
and^ipve God thanks for my deliveranQa, re- - 
iblvmg to lay afide all thoughts of my delive*- 
rance by. my boat ; and refreftung myfelf with - 
foch thmgs as I had, I brought my boat dofe 
to the fliore, in a Tittle cove that I bad fpied ^ 
under fome trees , and laid me dowmto fl^p , 
being quite fpent with the labour and ^igue of 
the voyage. 

I was now at a great lofe which way to ge;t 
home with my boat ; I had run fo much ha!* 
zard , and knew too much the cafe to thmk! of 
attempting it by the way I went out ; and what 
might be at the other fide ( I mean, the weft ' 
fide ) I knew not , nor had I any mind to run 
any more ventures ; fo , I only refolved in the^^ 
morning to make my way weft ward along the 
fkoTt , and to fee if there was no creek where I 
might lay up my frigate in fafety , fo as to have 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON fcRUSOE. 1203 
her again if I wanted her. In about three miles , 
or thereabouts , coafting the fhore , I came to a 
very good. inlet or bay, about a mile over, 
which narrowed till it came to a very little ri- 
Noilet or brook , where I found a convenient 
harbour for my boat , and where fhe lay a^ if 
fhe had been in a little dock made on purpofe 
for her; here I put in ^ and having flow ed my 
boat very fafe , I went on (hore to look about 
-me, and fee where I was. 

I foon found I had but a little pafled by the 
-place where I had^heen before , when I travel- 
led on foot to that (hore : fo taking nothing out 
' of my boat , but my gun and my umbrella , for 
I it was exceeding hot, I began to march i the 
way was . comfortable enough , after fuch a 
voyage as I bad been ; and I reached my old 
bower in the evening , where 1 found every 
thine ftanding as I left it ; for 1 always kept it in 
good order , being , as I faid before , my coun- 
try houfe. 

I got over the fence , and laid me down in 
Ae fliade to reft my limbs, for I was very 
veary , and fell afleep : but judge if you can , 
-you , that read ray ftory , what a lurprize I 
- tnuft have been in , when I was awaked out of 
iny fleep by a voice calling me by my name fe- 
veral times , *' Robin , Robin , Robin Crufoe ! 
„ poor Robin Crufoe ? Where are you , Robin 
Crufoe ? Where are you ? Where have you 
been?'* 
I was fo faft afleep at firft, being fatigued with 



d by Google 



99 



ft04 LLFE AND ADVENT,URES 

towing, or p".cldling,as it is called, die firftpart 
of the day , and walking the latter part , that I 
did not awake thoroughly ; and dozing betweeo 
Hecping and waking, thought I dreamed that 
Jbmebody {poke to me : hut as the voice conti- 
nued to repeat , * Robin Crufoe ! Robin Cru- 
;,, foe! ** at lafl I began to awake more perfectly^ 
and was at firft dreadfully frighted , and ftarted 
up in the utmoft conftemation : but no fooner 
were my eyes open , than I few my Pol fitting 
on the top of the hedge , and immediately knew 
that this was he that fpoke to me ; for juft in 
fuch bemoaning language! hadufed to talk to 
him, and teach him; and he had learned it fo 
jtrrfectly, that he would fit upon my finger,, 
and lay his bill clofe to my face , and cry — 
^' Poor Robin Crufoe , where are you ! where 
,, have you been ! how came you here I'' and 
iiich things as Ihad taught him. 

However , even though I knew it was the 
parrot , and that indeed it couM be nobody elfe, 
it \\ as a good v\ hile before I could compofemy- 
felf. Firft , 1 ^^als amazed ho .v the .creature got 
thither , and then how he fltould juft keep about 
the place , and no where elfe : but as I »' as wqll 
fatisfied it. could be nobody but honeft Pol^I 
got it over ; and holding out my hand, and cau- 
ling him by his name, Pol, the fociaBle , came 
to me ,.and fat upon my thumb., as he uied to 
do , and continued talking to me, ** Poor Ro- 
bin Crufoe ; ** and how did I come here ; and , 
where I had been ;ijuft as if he had been over- 
joyed to fee me again. I had 



d by Google 



of llOBlNSON CRUSOE, aog 

i had now enough of rambling to fea , and 
continued for fome days in a very quiet ftate , 
reflecting oh the danger I had been in : I wbuld 
have been very glad to haVe had ftiy boat again 
on ihy fide of the irtand , but I knew ilot how it 
was practicable to get it about ^ as to the eaft- 
fide of the iflarid, which I had gone round , I 
knew well ertough there was no Ventiiring that 
way ; my very heart wbuld flirink , and my 
very blood run ehill , tb think of it ; and to the 
^ther fide of the ifland , I did not know how k 
might be there; but iuppofing the current ran 
with the fame force againft the fliore at the eaft , 
as it pafled by it oh the 6ther , 1 might run the 
fame rifqiie of being driven down the ftream , 
and carried by the ifland , as I had been before 
of being carried away from it; fo , with thefe 
thoughts,! contented myfelf to be without any 
boat, though it had been the product of fo many 
months labour to make it, andof fo many more 
to get it into the fea. 

Ih tbis government of my teniper 1 remained 
hear a year , lived a very fedate retired life , as 
you may well fuppofe ; and my thoughts , 
being much compofed as to my condition , and 
folly comforted ih refigning myfelf to the dif- 
pofitions of Providence , I thought I lived very 
happily in all things , except that of fociety . 

I improved myfelf, in this time , in all the 
mechanic exertifes which my neceflities put me 
upoh applying myfelf to ; and, I believe , could, 
upon occafion, haVe made a very good carpen- 
ter, efpecially confidering how tew tools I liad* 

Vol I. S 



d by Google 



io6 LIFE AND ADVEI^TUR£S 

Befides this , I arrived at an unexpected per-* 
fection in my earthen-ware , and contrived to 
make them with a wheel , which I found infini- 
tely eafier and better ; Isecaufe I made things 
round and fliapeable , which before were very 
aukward and rough in their form. But I think I 
never was more vain of my own performancejOt 
more joyful for any thin^ I folind out, than my 
being able tb make'a tobacco-pipe ; and though 
it was a very ugly clumfy thing when done ^ 
and only burrtt red like Other earthen-ware , 
yet , as it was hard and firm , and would draw 
the fmoak , I was exceedingly comforted v\ ith 
it : for I had been always ufed to fmoak , and 
there were pipes in the mip ; but I forgot theiti 
at firft , not knowing there was tobacco in the 
ifland ; and afterwards, when I fearched the fliip 
again , I could not come at any pipes at all. 

In my wicker-ware I alfo improved much ^ 
and made abundance of neceflTary balkets , as 
Well as my invention fuggcfted ; though they 
were not very handfome , yet they were con- 
venient for my laying things up in , or fetching 
things home in. For example , if I killed a goat 
abroad , I could hatig it up in a tree, flay it , and 
drefs it, and cut it in pieces , and bring it home 
in a baiket ; and the like by a turtle ; I could 
cut it up , take out the ^jgs , and a piece or two 
of the flefh , which was enough for me, and 
bring them home in a baflcet , and leave the reft 
behind me ; alfo large deep bafkets were my 
receivers for my com , which I always rub- 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRU50E. 207 
bed out As foon as it was dry , and cured ; and 
kept it in great baflcets inftead of a granary. 

I began now to perceive my powder abated 
wnfiderably : and this was an article which it 
Wdk$ impoffible for me to fupply ; I therefore be- 
gan feriouily to confider what I muft do when 
J fliould have no more powder ; that is to fay , 
howl fhould do to kill any goats. I had , as I 
obferved in the third year of my being here , 
kept a young kid , and bred her up tame ; I was 
in hopes of getting an he-kid , but I could not 
by any means bring it to paft , tiil my kid gre v 
an old goat ; and I could never find in my heart 
to kill her , till (he died at laft of mere age. 

But being now in the eleventh year ormy re- 
^dence ; and , as I have faid , my ammunition 
growing low , I kt myfelf to ftudy fome art 
to trap and fnare the goats , to fe^ whether I 
<:ould not catch fome of them alive ; and parti- 
cularly I wanted a fhe-goat great with young. 

For this purpofe I made mares to hamper 
them ; and I believe they were more than once 
taken in them ; but my tackle was not good ,for 
I had no wir^ , and always found them broken , 
and my bait devoured. 

At length I refolved to try a pit-fell ; fo I 
i^iig feveral large pits in the earth , in places 
where I had obferved the goats ufed to feed , 
and over thefe pits I placed hurdles of my own 
piaking too , with a great weight upon them ; 
and feveral times I put ears of barley and dry 
rice , without fetting the trap ; and I could 

S 2 



d by Google 



fto8 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

eafily perceive , that the goats had gone in and 
eaten up the com. At length, I kt three traps 
in one nigjit , and fi;oing the next morning , I 
found them ^11 ftsmding , and yet the bait eaten 
and gone : this was very difcouraging ; how- 
ever , I altered my traps , and , going one mor- 
ning to fee my traps , I found , in one of them , 
a large old he-goat ; and , in one of the others , 
three kids , a male and two females. 

As to th^ old one » I knew not what to do 
with him ; he wais fo fierce I durft not go into 
the pit to him ; that is to fay , to go about 
to bring him away alive , which was what I 
wanted; I cpuld have killed him , but that was 
pot my bufinefs , nor would it anfwer my end ; 
fo I e'en let him put , and he ran away greatly 
frighteped ; but I did not then know what I af- 
ter^ards learned, that hunger would tame a 
lion; if I had let him ftay there three or four 
days without food , and then have carried him 
fome water to drink, and then a little com , 
he would have been as tame as one of the kids ; 
for they are mighty fagacious , tractable crea- 
tures , where they are well ufed. 

However, for the prefent, I let him go, 
knowing no better at that time ; I then went 
to the three kids ; and taking them one by 
one, I tied them with firings together, and with 
fome difficulty brought them all home. 

It was fome time before they would feed ^ 
but throwing them fome fweetcom, it temp4 
fed tl^em ^ and they began tQ b^ t^e ; and pq w 

Digitized by VjjOOQIC 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, aog 

I found , that if I expected to fupply myfelf 
with goats-^efli , when I had no powder or fliot 
Jeft , breeding fome up tame w^ my only way, 
when perhaps I might have them about my 
houfe like a dock of iheep. 

But then it occurred to me , that I muft keep . 
the tame frorti the wild , or elfe they wQuld aU 
ways run wild when th^y ^ew up ; and the 
only way for this was to h^ive fome inclofed 
piece of ground well fenced , either with hedge 
pr pale, to keep them up fo effectually, that 
thofe within might npt fcre^k put ^ pr thof? 
without break in. 

This was a great undertaking fox one pair of 
hands ; yet as I faw there was an abfolute ne* 
ceflity of doing it , my firft piece of vvit^k w^ 
jto find out a proper piece of ground , viz, where 
there was likely to be herbage for them to 
(eat, water for them to drink, and cover to 
keep them from the fun. 

Thofe who underftand fuch inclpfures will 
think I had very little contrivance, when J 
pitched upon a place fo very extenfive . it being 
a plain open piece of meadow-land > or fa- 
vannah , ( as our people call it in the weftem 
ijolonies ) whi^h had t vo or three little drills 
pf frelh water in it , and at one end was very 
woody ; I fay , they will fmile at my forecaft , 
when I fliall tell them I began my inclofing of 
this piece of ground in fuch a manner . that my 
hedge or pale muft have been at leaft two mi- 
te ^QH^ J jjor W^ t\}^ ni^4i^efs of it (o great as 



d by Google 



MO LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

to the compafs ; for if it vas ten miles about , I 
was like to have time enough to do it in; but 
I did not confider , that my goats w ould be 
as wild in (o much compafs , as if they had 
had the uhole ifland; and I fhould have fo 
much room to chafe them in , that I {houl4 
never catch them. 

' My hedge was begun and carried on , I be- 
lieve , ^hwLt fifty yards , when this thought 
occurred to me ; fo I ftopped fliort, and refoK 
ved to inclofe a piece of about one hundred 
and fifty yards in length , and one hundred 
yards in breadth ^ which , as it vould main- 
tain as many as I ftiould have in any reafor 
nable time , fo , as my ftock increafcd , I coul<| 
add more ground to my inclofiire. 

This was acting with fome prudence , and I 
went to work u ith courage ; I was about three 
months hedging in the firft piece; and, till! 
had done it , I tethered the three kids in the beft 
part of it , and ufed them to feed as near me as 
poflSble , to make them femitiar : and very of- 
ten I would go and carry them fome ears of 
barley , or an handfiil of rice , and feed them 
out of my hand : fo that after my inclofure 
was finiflied , and I let them loofe , they would 
follo^v me up and down , bleating after me for 
an handftil of com. 

This anfwered my end , and in about a year 
lind a half, I had a flock of about twelve goats^ 
kids and all ; and in two years more I had three 
^nd forty , befides feveral I ^Hed for fppdt 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, an 

Being thus fuccefsfiil, I inclofed five fever^l 
pieces of ground to feed them in , with littte 
pens to drive them into , to take them as I 
had occafion ; and gates put of one piece of 
ground into another. 

But this vas not all; for now I not onty 
had goats fleih to feed on when I pleafed , but 
milk like wife; whi^h , indeed , was^n artic-^ 
le I had not thought of, and whi^h , whei^ 
it came into my thoughts , was r^^lly an 
agreeable furprize ; fpr now I fet up my dairy , 
and had fometimes a gallon or two of milk in 
a day. And as nature , who gives fupplies pf 
food to every creature , dictates even naturally 
how to make ufe of it ; fo I , thaj never mil- 
ked a cow , much lefs a goat , or fa w butter ov 
cheefe made, very readily and handily , thougl^ 
after a great many eflays and miicarriages ^ 
made me both butter and cheefe ctt laft, anq 
never wanted it afterwards. 

How mercifully can our great Creator treat 
his creatures , even in thofe conditions in which 
they feemed to be overw helmed in deftruction I 
How can he fweetenthe bittereft providences, 
and give us caufe to praife him for dungeon$ 
andprifons ! What a table was here fpread fpr 
me in a wildernefs , where I f^w nothing at firft 
but to perifli for hunger ! 

It would have made a ftoick ftnil^ , to haye 
fcen me and my little femily fit down to din-i 
fier : there was my majeflty, the prince and 
}prd pf tl)$ whole i^and , I had t|ie lives pf d| 



d by Google 



^la LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

fny fubjects at abfolute command ; I coulA 
hang, draw , give liberty , and take it away, 
gnd no rebels among all my fubjects. 

Then , to fee how like ^ king I dined too , 
all alone , attended by my feryants ! Pol , as 
if he had been my favourite , was the only 
creature that could talk to me ; my dog , which 
vas now grown very old and crazy , and found 
no fpecies to multiply his kind upon, fat al- 
ways at my right-hand ; and two cats , one on 
each fide of the table , expecting now and theii 
a bit froni my h^d , as a n^ark of fpecial fa-^ 
vour. 

But thefe were not the two cats which I 
brought on fliore at firft ; for jchey w^r^ both 
dead, and had beei^ interred ?iear my habita- 
tion by my own hands ; and one of them ha- 
ving multiplied by I know not what kind of 
creature, thefe were two which I preferved 
tame , whereas the reft ran wild into the woods , 
and became indeed troublefome to me at laft; 
for they would often come into my houfe , 
and plunder me , till at laft I was obliged to 
ihoot them ; at length they left me with this 
attendance , and in this plentiful manner I li-r 
ved ; neither cooild I be f^id to want any 
thing but fociety , and of that , in fome tiipe 
after this, I was like to have too mucl). 

I was fomething impatient , as I have obr 
/erved , to have the life of my boat , though 
very loth to run any g[|C^ e hazard : and thcrer 
for^ , fomeftni^$ « I 4t contriving w^ys fe 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, aij 

get her about the ifland , and at other times I 
fet myfelf down contented enough without her. 
But I had a ftrange uneafinefs in my mind to go 
down to the point of the ifland , where , as I 
have faid, in my laft ramble, I went up the 
hill to fee how the fliore lay , and how the 
current fet , that I might fee what I had to do : 
this inclination increafed upon me every day , 
and fit length I refolved to travel thither by 
land; and following the edge of the fliore, I 
did fo ; but had any one in England been to 
meet fuch a man a5 1 was , it muft either have 
frighted him , or raifed a great deal of laughter ; 
and as I frequently flood ftill to look at jnyfelf , 
I could not but (mile at the notion of my tra- 
veling through Yorkfliire , with fuch an cqui^ 
page , ^nd in fuch a drefs. Be pleafed to take a 
flcetch of my figure , as follows — 

I had a great high , fliapelefs cap 9 made of 
goat^ flcin , with a flap hanging down behind , 
as well to keep the fun from me , as to flioot 
the rain off from running into my neck; noth- 
ing being fo hurtful in thefe climates as th^ rain 
upon the flefli under the cloaths. 

I had a fhort jacket of goat's fkin , the fkirts 
coming down to about the middle of my thighs; 
and a pair of open-kne^d breeches of the fame ; 
the breeches were made pf the fkin of an old he 
goat, whofe hair hung down fuch a length on 
pach fide , that , like Pantaloon's it reached to 
the middle of my legs. Stockings and Ihoes I 
|iad none ; but I had m^de me a pair of {otn^m 



d by Google 



£14 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

thing 9 1 fcarce knew what to call them , lilBe 
feuflcins , to Am over my legs , and lace on 
either fide like fpatterdaflies , but of a moft bar- 
Jjarows (hape : ^ indeed were all rfie reft of my 
cloaks. 

I had on a broad belt of goat's fkin dried , 

which I drew together with two thongs of the 

fame ^ inftead .of buckles , and , in a kind of ^ 

4rpg on either fide of this , inftead of a (word 

una dagger, hung ^ little few and an hatchet ^ 

one on one fide , and one on the other : I ha4 

another belt , not Co broad , and faftened in the 

fame manner , which hung over my flioulder ; 

Mnd at the end of it , under my left arm , hung 

two pouches , both made of goat's (kin ; in one 

of which hung my powder , in the other my 

<h<:Nt ; at my back i carried my baiket , on my 

(houlder my gun , and oyer my head a great , 

clum/y 5 ugly goat^flcin umbrefta , but which , 

after all , was the moft neceflary thing I hadl 

gbout me , neict to my gun : as for my face , the 

colour of it was really not fo Mulatto-like , as 

one might expect from a man not at all c^refiil 

of it, and living within nine or ten degrees of 

tiie equinox. My beard I had once fuffered to 

grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long : 

but as I had both fcifTau-s and rajsors fuflficient , 

I had cut it pretty ihort , except what grev oii 

my upper-lip , which ihad trimmed into a largi 

pair of Mahometan whiskers , fuch as I had ob- 

ferved wornby fome Turks, whom I faw at 

§allee ; for rijie Moors did not wear fiich thougl\ 



d by Google 



&P ROfilNSON CRUSOE, aig 

the Turks did : of thefe muftachios , or v\his-* 
kers , I will not fay they were long enough 
to hang my hat upon thein ; but they were 
length and fhape monftrous enough , and fuch 
35 in England would have pafled for frightfuL 

But all this is by the bye : for as to my figu- 
re , I had fo few to obferve me , that it was o^ 
iio manner of confequence ; fo I fay no more to 
that part. In this kind of figure I went my new 
journey , and was out five or fix days. I travel-* 
led firft along the fea ihore , directly to the 
place where I firft brought my boat to an an- 
chor to get up upon the rocks ^ and , having no 
boat now to take Care of, I went over the land 
a nearer way , to the fame height that I was 
upon before ; wheh , looking forward to the 
point of the rock which lay out , and which I 
was to double with my boat , I was furprized 
to find the fea allfmooth and quiet; no ripling ^ 
no motion, no curreiit , any more there than in 
other places, 

I was at a ftrange lofs to undertt«md this ^ 
and refolved to fpend fome time in endeavou- 
ring to difcover if nothing from the fets of ther 
tide had occafioned it : but I was foon convin- 
ced how it was , viz. that the tide of ebb fetting 
from the weft , and joining with the current of 
waters from fome great river on the (hore , muft 
be the occafion of this current; and that accor- 
ding as the wind blew more forcibly from the 
weft, or from the north this current csune near ^> 
or went farther from the fhore; for> waiting 



d by Google 



£i6 Life AND ADVENtUkfeS 

thereabouts till evening, I went up to the rock 
Again , and theii the tide of ebb being made ^ 
I plainly faw the current Igaift ais before , only 
that it ran farther otf, being near half a lea:* 
giie from th^ flibre \ whereas , in iny cafe , it 
fet clofe upon the fliore , and hurried me ill 
ihy canoe along with it , which at another time 
it would not have done. 

This obfervation convinced me t had no- 
thing to do but to o'oferve the ebbing and flo- 
wing of the tide, and I mio;ht very eaiily bring 
my boat ab6ut the iflmd : but when I began 
to think of putting it in practice , I had mch 
a terror upon nly fpirits , at the r eittembrance 
of the danger I had been in , that 1 could not 
think of it again with any patience; but, on 
the contrary, I took up another refolution, 
which was more (Afe ^ though more laborious ; 
and this was , that 1 would build , or rather 
make me another periagua , or canOe ; and To 
have one for one ude of the ifland , and one 
for the othe^k 

You are to Underftand , that I now had , as 
I may tall it , two pUntations in the ifland ; 
one, my little fortification or tent, with the 
wall about it , under the rock , with the cave 
behind me , which by this time I had enlar* 
ged into feveral apartments , one within ano- 
ther. One of thefe, which was the drieft and 
liargeft, arid had a door out beyond my wall 
or foftifidation , that is to fay, beyond where 
ihjr wall jomed to the rock , was filUd up with 

the 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, ai? 

the largeft earthern pots , of which I have gi* 
ven an account , and with fourteen or fifteen 
great balkets , which would hold five or fix 
bufliels each , where I laid up my (lores of pro- 
yifion , efpecially my com; fome in the ear , 
tut off fliort from the'ftravv, and the otlwsr 
rubbed out with my hAnd. 

As for my wall, made as before, with long 
flakes or piles , thofe piles grew all like trees, 
and were by this time become fo large , and 
fpread fo very much, that there was not the 
leaft appearance , to any one's view , of any 
habitation behind them* 

Near this dwefling, but a little farther wi- 
thin the land, and upon lower ground, lay 
my two pieces of corn-ground ; which I kept 
duly cultivated aftd fowed , and which regi^ 
larly yielded me their harvefl in its feafoi^ ; 
and whenever I had occafion for more com , 
I had more land adjoining, the foil of which 
Vas equally well Calculated for cultivation. 

Befides this , there was my country-feat , I 
had now a tolerable plantation alfo; for firfl, 
I had my little bower as 1 Called it^ which I 
kept in repair •, that is to fay , 1 kept the hedge 
which circled it in Conllantly fitted irp to its 
ufual height, the ladder ftanding always in 
the'infide; I kept the trees , whrch at firft were 
no more than my ftakes , but were now grown 
very firm and tall, al\vays fo cut, that they 
might fpread , grow thick, and ra^ke the more 
agreeable; (hade, which they di4 effectually to 
Vol. I. T 



d by Google 



2i8 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

my mind. In the middle of this I had my tent 
always ftanding, being a piece of a fail fpread 
over poles fet up for that purpofe , and xxhich 
never wanted any repair or renewing; andun- 
der this I made me a fquab or couch , with 
the Ikins of the creatures I had krlled , ai;id 
with other foft things , and a blanket lai(i on 
them , fuch as belonged to our fea-bedding , 
which 1 had faved , and a great watch-coat to 
cover me; and here, wheneverlhad occafion 
to be abfent from my chief feat , liQok lip my 
country habitation. 

Adjoining to this , T had my inciofures <for 
my cattle; that is to fay , my goats :' and as 
I had taken an inconceivable deal of pains tp 
fence and inclofe this ground, I Txas fo uneafy 
to fee it not kept entire , left the goats fhoul^ 
break through , that I never left off, till with 
^infinite labour I had ftruck the outfide of the 
hedge fo full of fmall ftakes, and fo near to 
one another, that it was rather a pale than 
a hedge, and there vas fcarce room to put a 
hand through between them; which , after- 
wards, when thofe flakes grew, as they ail 
did in the next rainy feafoh • made the inclo-' 
fure'ftrong , like a. wall ; indeed, ftronger th^ 
any wall. 

This will teftify for me that I was not idl^, 
and that I fpared no pains to bring to pajTs 
whatever appeared neceftary for my comfot- 
table fupport; for I^onfidered the keeping up 
a breed of tame creatures thus at my hai;d , 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 219 

would be a living^ magazine of flefli, milk., 
butter , and cheefe , for me , as long as I lived 
in the place , if it were to be forty years; and 
that keeping them in my. reach ^ depended en- 
tirely upon my perfecting my inclofures to 
fuch a degree , that I might be fure of keeping 
'them together ; which by this. method, indeed, 
J- To efFectually fecured, that when thefe little 
ftak^s began to grow , I had planted them fp 
very thick I was forced to pull fome of them 
up again. 

Ifi this place alfo I had my grapes growing, 
which I principally depended on for my win- 
ter ftore of rainns , and which I never failed 
to preferve very carefully , as the beft and mofl 
agreeable dainty of my whole diet ; and in- 
deed they were not agreeable only, butphy- 
fical , wholefome , nOurifhing., and refrefhing 
to the laft degree. 

As this was alfo about half-way between 
my other habitation and the placed where I had 
laid up my boat, I generally ftaid and lay 
here in my way thither; fori ufed frequently 
to vifit my boat , and I kept all things about 
or belonging to her in very good order; fo- 
metimes I went out in her to divert myfelf, 
but no more hazardous voyages wouW I go y 
^OF (carce ever above a ftone's caft or two 
from the fhore, I wasfo apprehenfive of being 
hurried out of my knowledge again by the 
currents or winds , or any other accidents But 
now I come to a new fccne of my life. 

T a . 



d by Google 



5fto LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

It happened one day , about noon , going 

towards my boat, I v^as exceedingly furpri- 

zed with the print of a man's naked foot oji 

the (hore , which was very plain to b^, feen io 

the fand ; I ftood like one thunderflruck , or 

as if I had feen an apparition; I liftened , I 

looked round me ; I could heat nothing , nor 

fee any thing ; I went up to a rifing ground t(> 

look ferther ; I went up the fliore , and down 

the fhore , but it vas all one , I could fee no 

other impreffion but that one. I went to it 

again to fee if there were any more , and to 

obferve if it might not be my fency ; but there 

was no room for that , for there was exactly 

the very print of a foot , toes , heel , and every 

part ot a foot; how it came thither I knew 

not , nor could in the leaft imagine. But , af-^ 

. ter innumerable fluttering thoughts , like a niaii 

perfectly confofedanddiftracted,! came hom^ 

to my fortification , not feeling , as we fay ^ 

the ground I went on , but terrified to the laft 

degree , looking behind me at every tvjo or 

three fteps , miftaking every bwfli or tree, an4 

fancying every (lump at a difl:ance to be a man ; 

nor is it poffible to defcribe how many va-r 

rious ftiapes an affrighted ipiaginatioin repre* 

fented things to me in ; hpw many wild ideal 

were formed every moment in my fancy , and 

what flrange unaccountable thoughts came into 

my mind by the way* 

When I came to my cafile , for fo I think 
I caviled it ever after this , I fled into it lite 



d by Google 




L'f{\/rn -.\\-uA^. 



d by Google 



dbyGoogk 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, siii 

0m piirfued ; vhether I went over b^y the lad- 
der^ as firft contrived, op went in at the hdle 
in the rock , which I called a door, I cannot 
remiember ; for never frighted hare fled to co- 
v^r^ or fox to earth, with mor«e terror of mind 
than I to this retreat. 

I had no fleep that night ; the farther I was 
from the occafion ol^^my fright, the greater 
my apprehenfions were ; which h fomething 
contrary to the nature of fuch things , and ef- 
pecially to the nfual prae^e of all creatures 
in fear. Biit I was f^ embai^afTed withmy own 
frighlftil ideas of the thin^ , that I formed no- 
thing but diftnal imaginatlotts to myfetf , even 
though I was now a great way off it. Some- 
times I fancied it muft be the devil ; and rea- 
jfon joined in with me upon this flippofition : 
for how fhoulidr any other thing in human flxape 
come into the place ? Where was the veiled 
that, brought riiem ? What marks were there 
of any other footffeps ?^ AkI how was it pof- 
fible a man fhould come there ? But then to 
diiflk that Satan fhould take human fhape upon 
tim in fuch a place , where there couW be 
ito manner, of occafion for it ^ but to leave 
the print of hi^'footbjs^hindhim ,a!id that even 
fpr no piffpofe too ,. ( for he eoirid^ not be ftire 
I fhoirid flee it ; ) this was an amazement the 
other way r I confidered that the devil might 
have found out abundance of other ways to 
have terrified me ,, than thisof the fingle print 
of a foo5^ tha,t ^ I lived qiwte on the. oth^ 

T 3; 



d by Google 



^22 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ii^e of tbe ifland ^ he w ould never have been 
fa fimplq to leave a mark in a pJaee where it 
was t^n thoufand to one wheAer I fliould ever 
fee it; or not ; ^nd in the fand too , which the 
firft furge of the fea upon an high wind, would 
have defaced entirely. All dais feemed incon* 
fiftent with the thing itfelf , and with all no- 
tions we, yfiwUy entertain of the fubtlety of 
the deviU 

Abundance of fuch things as thefe affifted 
to argue me out of all apprehenfions of its being 
the devil : and I presently concluded then , 
that it muft be feme more dangerous creatu- 
re ^ viz. that it muft he fome of the lavages 
Df the main Jand over-againft me , who had 
wandered out to fea in their canoes ; and ^ 
either driven by the currents , or by contrary 
winds , had made the ifland ; and had been o» 
fliore ; but were gone away again to fea , being 
as loth, perhaps, to have ftaid in this defo« 
late ifland , as I would haye been to haye had 
them. 

While thefe reflections were rolling upon* 
my mind , I was very thankful in my thought , 
that I was fo happy as not to be thereabouts 
at that tinae, or that thi^^y did not fee my 
boat , by which they would have concluded ,, 
that fome inh^itants had been in the place ^ 
and , perhaps , have fearched ferther- foj; me. 
Then terrible thoughts racked my imaginations 
about their having found my boat , and that- 
l|ierQ ^ere gepple here ; and that if (o, I fliowli 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. mJ 

certainly have them come again in greater num- 
bers , and devour me ; that if it (hould happen 
{o that they flioirid not find me , yet they would 
find my inclofure , deftroy all my corn , carry 
away all my flock of tame goats , and I (hould 
perim at laft for mere want. 

Thus my fear banifhed all my religious ho- 
pe ; all that former confidence in God , whicE 
was founded upon fuch wonderful experience ^ 
as I had met with of his goodnefs , now vani^ 
hed ; as if he that had fed me by miracle hi- 
therto could not preierve by his pow«r the pro-- 
vifion which he had made for me by his good- 
nefs. I reproached myfelf for my foUy in not 
fowing more corn one year than would juft 
ferve me till the next feafon , as if no accident 
could intervene to prevent my enjoying the 
crop that was upon the -ground ; and this I 
thought fo juft a reproof , that I refolved for. 
the future to have two or three years corn 
before-hand, fo that whatever might come , t 
might notperifli for want of bread. 

How ftrange a qhequer-work of Providence 
is the life pf man ^ and. by what fecret differing, 
^rings are the affections hurried about , as dif- 
fering circumftances prefent I To-day we love; 
what to-morrow we bate ; today we ieek what 
to-morrow we fhun; to-day we defire what to- 
morrow we fear , nay ^ even tremble at the ap- 
prehenfions of. This was exemplified in me at 
this time in the moft lively manner imaginable;, 
fpr I , whofe only aflEliction was ^ that I fe^> 



d by Google 



224 LIFE AND ADVENTURES^ 

med baniflied from hum^n fociety ^ that ? ^^ 
alone circumfcribed by the, boundlefs ocean , 
cutofFfrom mankind ^and condemned to what 
I call a filent life : that I was as one whom Hea- 
ven thought not \> orthy to be numbered among 
the living, or to appear among the reft of bis 
creatures ; that to have feen one of my own 
ipecies would have feeraed to me a raifing me 
from death to life , and the greateflblefling that 
Heaven itfelf , next to the fupreme bleffing of 
falvation , could beftow ; I fay , that I ftiould 
now tremble at the very appxehenfions of feie* 
inga man, and was ready to fink into the: g.rouii<J 
at but the fliadow or filent appearanc;ef0^a nian'sr 
haviogfet his foot on the ifland. 

Such is the uneven ftate of human life ; and 
it afforded me a great many curious fpecula-* 
tions afterwards , when I had a little recove-> 
red my firft fiarprize; 1 confidered, that this 
was the ftation of life the infinitely \rife and 
good providence of God had determined for 
me ; that as I could npt forefee uhat the endsr 
of Divine Wifdom might be in all this , fo I 
was not to difpute his fovereignty ^ uho , as 
I was his creature , had an undoubted right by* 
creation to goverii and difpofe of mie abfolu- 
tely as he thought fit; and who, as I was a^ 
creature who had offended him , had Ukewife s^ 
judicial right to condemame to \i^hat punifli^ 
ment he thought fit; and that it was my part- 
to fubmit to bear his indignation , becaufe I had 
finned againft hinu 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 2125 

I then reflected , that God , who was not 
only righteous , but omnipotent , as he had 
thought fit thus to punifli and afflict fne, (o he 
was able to deliver me ; that if he did not think 
fit to, do it , it was my unqueftioned duty to 
refign myfelf abfolutely and entirely to his 
will ; and , on the other hand , it was my duty 
alio to hope in him , pray to him , and quietly 
to attend the dictates and directions of his daily 
providence. 

Thefe thoughts took me up many hours ^ 
days , nay 9 I may fay , weeks and months ; 
and one particular effect of my cogitations ort 
this occafion , I cannot omit ; viz. one mor- 
ning early , lying in my bed , and filled with 
thoughts about my danger from the appearance 
of favages , I found it difcompofed me very 
much : upon which thofe words of the Scrip* 
ture came into my thoughts — " Call upon me 
„ in the day of trouble , and I w ill deliver thee^ 
„ and thou (halt glorify me. ^ 

Upon this , rifing chearfully out of my bed ^ 
my heart was not only comforted , but I was 
guided and encouraged to pray eameflly to God 
for deliverance. When I had done praying , I 
took up my bible , and opening it to read , the 
firft words that prefented themfelves to me 
were — ^* Wait on the Lewd , and be of good 
„ cheer , and he fliall ftrengthen thy heart : 
„ wait , I fay , on the Lord. ** It is impoffible 
to exprefs the comfort this gave me ; and , in 
return , I thankfully laid down the book 9 an^ 



d by Google 



A26 LIFE AND ADVENTORES 
^vas no more fad; at leaft, not on that oc- 
cafion. 

In ijie middle of thcfe cogitations ^ appre- 
heniions^, and reflections, it came into my 
thoHghts one day , that all this might be a mere 
chiraera of my own , and that this &>ot might 
be the print of my own ffeot , when I came ort 
ftiore from my boat. This cheated me upa little 
too , and I began to periiiade myftlf it was all 
a delufion ; that it was norfiingelfe but my owtl 
foot V and why^ght nM Ixome tbar way from 
the boat , a« well as I was going that ^lay to 
the boat ? .^in , I confidered alfo , that I could 
by no means tell for certain where I had trod ', 
and where I had not ; and that if at lafttfeis ^;ii 
only the print of my own foot , I had played 
. the part of thofe-fools^, who ftrive to n^ke {lor- 
ries of fpectres afrd apparitions , and: thei^ ar*^ 
themfel ves^ frighted atf thenrmore than any body 
elfe. 

Now I began tor tafe cburaopj , and to* peep 
abroad again; for I harf^'not furred dut of my 
caftle for; tht<ec days: and nights yfo tf^ati bc^ 
gatr to feem (hortof provifron ; for I had littte 
or nothing withindoors, but fome barley^ca-*' 
hes and water. Thetr I knew that fity gbat^ 
wanted to be milkeditoo , whfch ufoally was 
my eveniilgdiveitfeoiil : and the poor creat&rei 
wer^e in g^t pa&t and ineonveniertce for want 
of it ; and indeed it almoftiporled fome of tftem^ 
and almoft dried up their milk. 

Heartening ;myf«lifdierefore li^idi^ t&e belief 



d by Google 



OF R03INS0N CRUSOE. 227 

th?t this was nothing but the print of one of 
my own feet , ( and fo I might be truly faid to 
ftart at my own ftiadow ) I began to go abroad 
again ,, and went to my country ^-houfe to milk 
^ny fiock; but to fee with, what fear I went 
Jorvv ard , how often I looked behind me , hour 
I was ready , every «ow and then, to lay down 
my balket and run for my life*, it would have 
made any one have thoi^ht I was haunted with 
an evil confcience , or that I had been jlately 
jnoft terribly fr^hi^d; md fe Jndced I had. 

However , as I w^nt do vvn thustwo or throe 

.days , and having ftjqn nothing , I began to be 

.a little bolder , and to think there v^as really 

nothing in it but my own imagination; but I 

could not perfuade myfelf ftilly of this, till I 

fliould go down to the (hore again, and fee 

-this pi*int of a .foot, and meafure it by miy 

own , and fee if there was any .fimilitude or 

fitnefs, that I might Jjeaffured it was my .own 

foot: but when I came to the place fiijft, it 

appeared evidently to me , that when I laid up 

my boat , I could not poffibly be on fliore^aTiy 

■where thereabouts,. Secondly.^ wh^nJ came to 

meafurethe mark vv^ith'my own foot , J fonrtd 

my foQt notfo la^geby a great deal. Both thefe 

things filled my head with new imaginations , 

and gave me the vapours again to the ihigheft 

degree , fo that I fhook with cold , hke one in 

an ague , and went home ?igain , filled with the 

belief, that fomemanorm^ had been on (bore 

there ; or , in ihort , th^t the ifl wd wasanhaif- 



d by Google 



aas Life and aDVIntuHES 

ted , and I might be furprized before I wa* 
aware; and what Courfe to take for my fecu* 
rity I knew not. 

O what ridiculous f Solutions rtien take ^ 
when pofleflfed with fear ! It "deprives thera of 
the ufe of thofe means which feafon offers for 
their relief. The firft thing I propofed to my- 
felf was, to throw down my inclofures, and 
turn all my tame cattle, wild into the \t oods , 
that the enemy might not fitid them , and then 
frequent the liknd in profpect of the fame or 
the like bboty ; then to the fimple thing of * 
digging up my two corn-fields , that they might 
not find fuch a grain thei^ > and ftill be promp- 
ted to frequent the ifland ; then to demolifli * 
my bower and tent, that they might not fee 
any veftiges of my habitation, andbe promp- 
tea to took farther ^ in order to find out the 
perfons inhabiting. 

Thefe were the fubjects of the firft night's 
cogitation , after I was come home again , 
"while the apprehenfions which bad fo over- 
run my mind were frefli upon me , and my 
iiead "was filll of vapours, as above. Thus , 
fear at danger is ten thoufand times more tet- 
rifying than danger itfelf wlien apparent to the 
, €yes ; and we find the burden of anxiety grea- 
ter , by much , than the evil which we are 
anxious about; but^ which was worfe than all 
this , I had not that relief in this trouble for 
the refignation I ufed to practife, that I ho- 
ped to have. I looked^ I thought, like Saul , 

who 



d by Google 



or ROfilNSON CJlUSO^. aa^ 

\vk6 Complained not only that the Philiftine^ 
Were upon him , but that God had forfaken 
him ; for I did not now take due ways to Gom- 
^ofe my mind, by crying to God in my dif- 
trefs , and refting upon his providence , as I had 
done before , for my defaice and deliverance ^ 
which , if I had done , I had , at leaft , beeft 
more chearfiilly fupported under this new fur-^ 
prize , and perhaps carried through it with more 
refolution* 

This Cortfiilion of my thoughts kept me iwl- 
ke ail night ; but in the morning I fel afleep , 
and having > by the employment of my mind , 
been , as it wefe , tired , and my fpirics exliau- 
fted , I flept Very foundly , and ayaked much 
better compofed than I had ever been before: 
and now I Degan to think fedately ; and , upon 
the utmoft debate with myfelf^ I concluded, 
that this ifland j which was (o exceeding p!ea-» 
fant, fruitful, and no farther from the main 
land than as I had feen ^ was not fo entirely- 
abandoned as I might imagine; that , although 
there were nO ftated inhabitants who lived on 
the fpot , yet that there might fometimes come 
boats off from the fliore : who , either with de- 
fign , or perhaps nevef but when they were dri- 
ven by crofs winds , might come to this place. 

That I had lived here fifteen years now , and 
had not met with the leaft ftiaaow or figure of 
any people before ; and that if at any time they 
(hould be driven here, it was probable they 
went away again as foon as they could , feeing 

Vol, L V 



d by Google 



ft^b tlFE AND AZ)VeKTURES 

tiley haid never thought fit to fix there upoil 
any oceafion to this time. 

That the moft I ceuld fuggeft clanger from 
was , any cafual landing of ftraggUng people 
from the main ; who , as it was likely , if they 
were driven hither ^ were here againft their 
will ; fo that they made no flay but went oflF 
again with all ponible fpeed , feldom r^naining 
one night on Ihorev left they fliould not have 
the help of the tides and day-light back again-; 
and that therefore I had nothing tb do but to 
confidet of fome fafe retreat ^ in cafe I fliould 
fee any .faVages land upon the iTpot* 

Now I began to repent ^ that I hid diig ifty 
liave fo Wge , as to brihg a dobr thrbugh again^ 
which door , as I (aid , came out beyond where 
my fortification Joined to the rock. Upon ma- 
turely confifdering this ^ therefore , I refolved to 
draw me a fecOnd fortification, in the fame 
nianner of a femi^Circle, at a dittancefrommy 
w^l , juft where I had planted a double row of 
trees , about tvyelVe years before, of which I 
made rtientiom Thefe trees having been planted 
fo thick befoi-e ^ there^wanted but a few piles 
to be driven between them , that they might be 
. thicker and ftronger , and my wall loon finis- 
hed*. I 

I had now a double wall , and my outer \ 
wall was thickened .with pieces of timber , old, • 
cables, and «very thing I could think of to 
make it ftrong; having in it feveri holes , each , 
large ^tetough to put my arm through. In die in- , 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 531 
fide of this I thickened my wadl to about tetr 
feet , continually bringing earth out of my 
cave , and laying it at the foot of the wall , and 
walking upon it 5 and through the (even holes 
I contrived to plant the mufquets , of which I 
took notice , th^it I got feven on ihoire out of 
the (hip ; thefe , I fay , I planted like my can- 
non , and fitted them into frames thiit hem them 
like a carriage , fo th^t I could fire all the feven 
guns in two minutes time. This wall I was 
many a weary month in finifliing , and yet ne- 
ver thought my felf fafe till it was done. 
. When this was done , I ftuck all the ground 
without my wall , for a great diftance every 
way , as foil with ftakes or flicks of the ofier- 
Hke wood , which I found fo apt to grow , as 
they could well ftand; infomuch, that I be-s 
lieve I might fet IB near twenty tboufand , lea- 
ving a pi^etty large (pace between them and ^y 
wall , that I might 4iave room to fee an ene-< 
tny , and lliey might have no fhdter ffom the 
young trees , if th&y attempted to approach my 
^uter wall. 

Thus , in two years I had a thick grove j 
and in five or fix years a wood before my 
dwelling ^ grown fo monftrous thick andflrong, 
<that it was indeed pwfectly impaffafele ; and no 
«ian would ever imagine there vas any diing 
l^ebind it ^ much lefs an habitation. As for the 
-way I propofed myfelf to go in and out , ( for 
} left no avenue ) it was by fcttmg two lad-* 
-dtrs , one to a part of ^e rock which was low 9 

V a 



d by Google 



asa LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

^d then broke in , and left room to place ano-« 
ther ladder upon that ; ^o when the two laddera 
vere taken down , no man living could come 
down withoutinjuring himielf ; and if they had 
come dpwp , they were ftill on Uie out-iide of 
iny outer wall. 

Thus I took all the meafures human pru- 
dence could Aiggeft for my preferyation ; and 
it will be f^en at length , they were not alto- 
gether without juft reafon; though I forefaw 
nothing at that time more than my mere felT 
fuggefted. 

While this was doing , I was not altogether 
ca^el^fs of my other affairs; for I had a great 
concern upon me for my little herd of goats ; 
they were not only a preient fupply to me 
Upon every occafion , and began to be fufB-> 
' cient to me > without the expence of powder 
and (hot , but alfo abated the fatigue of my hun« 
ting after the wild ones ; and I W2|s unwilling 
to lofe the advantage of them , iuid to hav^ 
them all to nurfe up again, 

To this purpofe , after long confideration , 
1 could think of but two ways to preferve them ; 
one was , to find anotliier convenient place to 
dig ^ cave under-rground 9 and to drive them 
into it every . night ; and ^he other was ^ to 
inclofe two or three little bits of land 9 remote 
from one another, and as much concealed as 
I could , where I might keep about half a do- 
7en young goats in each place ; fo that if any 
differ happened to the flock in general ^ I 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOe. ^33 

might be able tp raife them again wkh little 
trouble and time ; and this , though it would 
require a great deal of titne ^nd labopr, t thought 
was the moft rational defign. 

Accordingly , I fpeftt fome time to find out 
the moft retired parts of the ifland ; afid pit^ 
^hed upon one , 'which was as private itideed ^ 
my heart could wilh ; for it was a little dan*p 
piece of ground in the middle of the holloW 
and thick voods , wher^^ as is obfetvcd , I al- 
moft loft myfelf once before , endeavouring to 
come bac^k that w^y frptti the eaftem part of 
the ifland. Her^ I found a clear pie(fe of ian<| 
near three acres , fo fiirrounded irith Woodi, 
that it was almoft an inclofufe by n^tute; ^t 
leaft , it did not want near fo much labour to 
make it fo , i« the oAer pie(?es of ground I 
Jiad worked fo hatd at, 

I immediately went to work with this pieee 
of ground, and in lefe than a month V I had 
fo fenced it round , that ^y flock or herd , 
trail it which you pleafe , which were acft fo 
wild now as at firft they might be ftppofdd 
10 be , were well enowgh Secured in it. So , 
without any farther delay , I removed tcii flife- 
goats and two he-goats to this pkce;^ and 
when they were there , I continued to f^erfect 
the fence, till I had made it as fecute ^5 the 
Other , which , however , I did at motie Mfurc ^ 
' ^A it took me up more time by a great deal. 

I was at the expenceof all this labour fron\ 
jfiy ap^reh^fllieQs on ?iccp^int of the pri^t ©f g^ 



d by Google 



^34 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

fiian'^ foot which I had feen ; for , as yet I no^ 
ver faw any hujnan creature come near th^ 

Jfland. I haa now lived two years under thefe 
difagreeable apprehenfionSy wnich, indeed, ma* 
de my life much lefs pomfprtable than it was 

.JJefofe \ ^ may be imagined , hy any who 
Juiow what it IS tQ live m the conftant fnare 

,of the fear of man; and this I muft obferv^ 
with grief too , that the difcompoAire of my 
mind had too great impreil^ons alfo upon the 
reli^ous piut.of my thoughts, for the dread 
^nd terror of falling into the hands of favages 

, and cannibals lay fo much upon my fpirits , 

, that I feldom found my felf in a due temper for 
application to my M^er ; at leaft , not widi 
the fedate calmn^ and refignation of foul 
which I was iwcuftpmed to do. I rather prayed 
to God as under great aflfliction and premire 
of mifld , furrounoed with danger, and in ex- 
pectation every night of being murdered and 
devoured before mpming ; and I myft teftify 
from my experience 9 that a temper of peace ^ 
thankftilnefs , love , and affection , is much the 
more proper frame for prayer than that of ter- 
ror and difeompofure ; and that under the dread 
of mifchief impending , a man is no more fit 
for a comforting performance of the duty of 
praying to God , than he is for repentance on 

, a nck-bed; for thefe difcompofures affect the 

^ fnind as the others da the body ; and the diA 
^^mpofure of the imnd muft neceffarily be a^ 
|reat:adifej)ility as that p/th^ body, a;id much 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE- ^35 

greater ; praying to God being properly aft ^% 
of the mind , not of th^ body. 

But to go on. After I h^d thus fecured one 
part of my little living ftock , I vent about 
the whole ifland , fearching for another private 
place to make fuch another depofit; when wan- 
dering more to the weft point of the ifland 
than I had ever done yet, and looking out 
to fea, I thought I f^w a boat upon thefea, 
at a great diftaace. I had found a perfpective- 
glafs or two, in one of the feamen's chefts, 

• which I faved out of our (hip; but J had it 
not about m^, and this was fo remote, that 
I eould not tell what to m^ke of it, though 
I looked at it till my eyes were not able to 
look any longer s whether it was a boat, of 
not, I do not know; but as I defcended from 
the hill, I could fee no mor^ of it, fo I gave 
it over ; only refelved to go no more without 
a perfpective-glafs in my pocket. 

When I was come down the bill to the 
end of the ifland , where indeed I had never 
been hefore^I was foon convinced, that feeing^ 
the print of a man's foot was not fuch a ftrange 
thing in the ifland as I imagined; and, but 
that it was a fpecial providence that I was call 
upon the fide of the ifland, where the lava- 
ges never came, I fliould eafily have known ^ 
that nothing was more frequent than for the 
i:anoes from the main, when they happene4 
to be a little too far out at fea , to feoot ovef 

, %Q that fiffe of the ifland for h*J?Qwri UJl«^ 



d by Google 



%Z6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

wife , as they often met, and fought in their^ 
canoes J, the victors, having taken any prifo- 
ners, would bring them over to this fhore, 
where, according tp their dreadful cuftoms,^ 
being all canibals , they would kill and eat 
them* Of which hereater. 

"WTien I was come dpwn the hill to th^ 
fliore , being the S. W* point of the ifland , 
I was perfectly confounded and amazed; nor- 
i$ it poflible K>r me to exprefs the horror of 
my mind, at feeing the (hore fpread wkh 
ikuUs, hands, f^et, and other bones of hu-^ 
man bodies; and, particularly, I obferved ^ 
place where there had been a fir^ made^ arid 
^ circle dug in the earth , lifee a cockpit ^ 
where it is to be fuppofed the favage wret- 
ches had fat down to their inhuman feaftings^ 
upon the bodies of their fellpw-creatutes. 

I was fo aftoniihed vith the fight of thefe 
things, that I entertained no notions of any 
danger to myfelf from it for a long while ; all 
my apprehenfions were buried in the thoughts 
or fuch a pitch of inhuman brutality , and the 
Jiorror pf the degeneracy of human nature ; 
vhich, though } hgcf heard of often ^ yet \ 
never had fo near aviev of before ; in mdtt^ 
1 turned away my ftce from the hot rid fpec- 
facie; I grew fick, and was juft at the poinf 
^f fciinting , when natur? difcharged the difor^ 
der from my ftomach; imd,^ having vomited 
wiA an uncommon violence, I vas a little; 
fflkyed^ but ^o\M. net b?^ to ftay b ^^ 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, i^? 
place a moment; fo I got up the hill apin 
with all the fpeed I could, and valked on 
towards my own habitation. 

"When I came a little out of that part of 
the ifland, I ftood ftill fon^e time amazed; and 
then recovering myfelf , I looked up with th^ 
utmoft affection of my foul , and , with a flood 
of tears in my eyes, gave God thjmks , that 
had caft my firft lot in a part of the world , 
where I wias diftinguiflied from fuch dreadful 
creatures as thefe ; gnd that though I had eftee- 
med my prefent condition very miferable , had 
yet given me fo many comforts in it, that I 
nad jftill more to give th^ks for , than to com«» 
plain of; and this above all , that I had, even 
in this miferabli? condition, been comforte4 
with the knowledge of Himfelf , and the hope 
of His blefling, which wa$ a felicity m^r^ 
than fufEciently equivalent to ^\l the mifery 
which I h?id fuffered, or could fuffer. 

In this frame of thankftdnefs I went home 
to my caftle, and began to be much eafief 
now , as to the fafety of my circumftances , 
than ever I was before ; for I obferved , that 
thefe wretches never came to this ifland in 
fearch of what they could get ; perhaps not fee- 
king , not wanting , or not expecting any thing 
here ; and having often , no doubt , been up 
. in the covered woody pjp-t pf it , without fin*? 
ding any thing to their purpofe. J knew I had 
been here now almoft eighteen years , an4 
.nfY^rf^w tjigleaft fpotfteps of a human cr^%^ 



d by Google 



i3» LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
tore there before ; and might be here eighteen 
more as entirely concealed as I was now ^ if 
I did not difcover myfelf to them , which I 
bad no manner of occafion to do ^ it being 
my only bufinefe to keep my(elf entirely con- 
cealed where I was , unleft Ffound a better fort 
of creatures than canibaU to make myfelf 
known to. 

Yet I entertained ftich an abhorrence of the 
favage wretches , I have been (peaking of, anc| 
of the inhuman cuftom of their devouring jwicl 
^ting one another up , that I continued pen- 
five and fad , and kept dofe within my own 
circle for almoft t\yo years after this. "When 
I fay my own circle , I mean by it , my tiiret 
plantations; viz. my caftle, my country-feat j^ 
which I called my bower , and my inclofkre 
in the woods ; nor did I look after this for any 
Other ufe , than as an inclofUre for my goats ; 
for theaverfion whi^R nature gave uie to thefe 
horrid wretches was ftch , that f was as fear- 
ful of feeing them , ks of feeing the devil him- 
fdf ; nor did I fo nfuch as go to look after 
my boat in all this time , but beg^ui rather t6 
confider of making me another ; for I could 
not think of ever making any mor^ attempts 
to bring the offer boat round the ifland , left 
I fliould meet with fome of thofe creatures at 
fea, in which j^ if I happened to fell into theip 
hands , I knew what would have been my lot. 

Time , however , and the fatisfection I had, 
that I w^ in no danger of 4>eing difcovcre^ 



d by Google 



O^ ROBINSON CRUSOfe. 23$ 
hy thefe people , foon wore off my uneafinefs 
about them; and I began to live juft in the 
fame compofed manner as before ; only with 
this difference , that I ufed more caution , and 
kept my eyes more about me than I did be- 
fore , left I ihould hempen to be feen by any 
vf them ; and , particularly , I was more cau- 
tious of firing my gun ^ left any of them on 
the ifland Ihould happen to hear it ; and it was 
therefore a very good providence to me, that 
I had furnifliea myfelf with a tame breed of 
goats , that I had no need to hunt any more 
about thfe woods ^ or ftioot at them ; and if I 
did catch any hiore of them after this , it was 
by traps ana fhares , as I had done before ; fo 
that for two years after this , I believe , I did 
hot fire my gun off once , though 1 never went 
out without it; and, which was more, as I 
had faved three piftols out of the fliip , I al- 
ways carried them out with me , or , at leaft , 
two of them , flicking them in my goat-fkin 
belt. I likeWife forniflied up 6ne of the great 
cudaffes that I had out of the (hip , and made 
me a belt to put it inalfo ; fo that I was now a 
moft formidable fellow to look at , when I 
went abroad , if you add to the former def- 
tription of myfelf, the particular of two pif- 
tols and a great broad fword hanging at my 
fide in a belt , but without a fcabbard. 

Things going on thus , Jks I have faid ^ for 
fome time , I Teemed , excepting thefe cau- 
tions , to be reduced to my former calm fedat« 



d by Google 



§40 LIPE AND At)VENtUllEl8 

>ay of livine ; all thefe things tending to fhew 
ine more and more how fcir itly condition was 
from being miferable,comparea to fome others; 
hay, to many other particulars of life, vhich 
it might have plealed God to have made my 
lot. It put me upon reflecting , how little re-» 
pining thef e would be among mankind , at any 
condition of life , if people would rather Com- 
pare their Condition with thofe that are worfe, 
in Order to he thankful ^ than be always 
comparing them with thofe which are better, 
to amfl their murmUrings smd complainings. 
As in my prefent Cortmtioil there were not 
really many things which I wanted ^ fo, in- 
deed , I thought that the fi-ights I had been in 
about thefe favage wretches , and the concern 
I felt for my owrt prefervation , had taken off 
the edge Or my invention for my own con- 
venience , and I had dropt a good defign , 
which I had once bent my thoughts upon ; 
and that was , to try if I could not make fbme 
of my barley into malt , and then try to brew 
myfclf fome beer t this was really a whim- 
fjcal thought , and I reproved my felf oftai 
for the fimplicity of if, for I prelently faw 
there wOuld be the want of feveral things 
neceflary for making my beer, that it would 
be impoffible for me to fupply ; as firfl , cafks 
to preferve it irt, which wis a thing that I 
Could never accomplifh , though I fpent not 
only many days, but weeks, nay, months, 
ui attempting it, but to no purpofe* In the 

next 



d by Google 



OF ROfelN.SON CRUSOE. 141 

next place, I had no hops to make it keep, 
no yeaft to make it work , no Copper or fcet-i^ 
tie to make it boil; and yet, had not. all 
thefe things intervened, I mean the frighti 
and terrors I was in about the favages , I 
had underteken ity and perhaps, brought it 
to pafs too ; for I feldom g^ve any thing over 
without accomplifhing it , when once I had 
it in my mind to begin it* 

But my invention now rail qui^te another 
way; for night and day I could think of noth- 
ing, but how I might deftroy fome of thefe 
monfters in their cruel bloody entertainment ; 
and, ifpoffible, fave the victim they fhoulcj 
bring hither to deftroy. It would take up ^ 
larger volume than this whole work is inten* 
ded to be , to fct down all the contrivances 
I invented for deftroying thefe creatures, or 
at leaft frightening them , fo as to prevent their 
coming hither any more : but all was abor* 
tive -, nothing could be poffible to take effect, 
unlefs I was to be there to do it myfelf ; and 
what could one man do among them , when 
perhaps there might be twenty Or thirty of 
them together , with their darts , or their bows 
and arrows , with which they could fhoot as 
true to a mark as I could with my gun ? 

Sometimes I Contrived to dig a hole undet 
the place where they made their fire , and put 
in five or fix pounds of gun powder ; which , 
when they kindled their fire , would confer 
wj^ntly communicate and blow up all that 
Vol L X 



d by Google 



242 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
"Was near it : but , as in the firft place I fliould 
be very loth to \v3fte fo much powder upon 
t^em , my ftore being now within the quan- 
tity of a barrel ; fo neither could I be fure of 
its going off at any certain time , when it might 
furprize them ; and , at beft , that it would dp 
little more than juft blow the fi^ ahout their 
ears, and fright them, but not fufficient to 
makethem forfake the place ; follaiditafide; 
and then propofed , that I woiUd fix myfelf 
in ambufli , in fome convenient place , with 
my three guns all double loaded , and , in the 
middle of their bloody ceremony , let fly at 
them, when I fliould be fure to kill or 
vound perhaps .t\\:o or three at every fhot .; 
and then felhng in upon them with my three 
piftols , and my f word, I made no doubt but 
that , if there were twenty, Ifhould kill theni 
all : this fency pleafed my thoughts for fome 
weeks ; and I u:as fo full of it ^ that I often 
breamed of it ; aod fometimes,^ t4iat I was juft 
going to let fly at them in n^ fleep, 

I went fo hr with it in my imagination^ 
that I employed myfelf feveral days , to find 
out proper places ,to put ^nyfolf in ambufcade., 
to w atch for them ; and I \!t>ent frequ^dy to 
the place itfelf, which was now grown .more 
femiliar to me; and efpecially vbile my mind 
was thus filled with thoughts of revenge, and 
of a bloody putting twenty or Airty of 
them to the fword, as I may call it ; .but the 
horror I had at the place^ a^d c^ the fignal^of 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSOK GRUSOE. 243 

the barbarous wretches devouring one anotlief, 
abated my malice* 

Well, at length I found a place in the fide 
of the hill*, where I was fatisfied I might fe- 
curely wait till I faw any of the boats coming ; 
and might then , even before they would be . 
ready to come on (hore , convey myfelf un- 
fecn into the thickets of ttees , in one of which 
there was an holloiv large enough to conceal 
me entirely ; and v^here I might mandobferv6 
all their bloody doings , and take my full aim 
at their hdads , w*hen they were fo clofe to- 
gether as that it would be next to impoffible 
that I fhould mils my (hoot , or that T could 
iail wounding three or four of them at the firft 
(boot. 

Ih this place, then , I refolvcd to frx my 
idefign ; and accordingly T prepared t^o m^l^• 
qttetSv, and my ordinary fowKng-piece. The 
two mufqiiets I loaded with a brace of (lugs 
each , and four or five fmaller bullets , about 
the fize of piftol-bullets ; and the fowling- 
piece I loaded with near an handful of fwan- 
ihot , of the largeft fize ; I alfo loaded my pif- 
tok with about four bullets each; and in thi^ 
poftore, well prodded with ammunition for 
a fecond and third clKirge , I prepared myielf 
for my expedition. 

After I Had thus laid the ftheme for my de- 
fign , and, in my imagination , put it in prac- 
tice , I continually made my tour every mor- 
vin^ up to the top of the hill , ^vHch wai 

X 2 



d by Google 



{^44 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
from my caftle , as I called it , about three mi- 
les , or more , to fee if I couM obferve any 
boats upon the fea , coming near the ifland , 
or ftanding over towards it ; but I began to be 
tired of this hard duty , after I had for two 
or three months conftantly kept my watch } 
but came always back without any Afcovery ^ 
there having not , in all that time , been the 
leaft appearance , not only on or near the fhore y 
but not on the whole ocean , fo far as my eyes 
•r gUffes couM reach every way. 

As long as I kept up my daily tour to the 
hill ; to look out , fo long alfo I kept up the 
vigour of my defign, and my fpirits feemed 
to be all tb^ time in a fuitable frame for To 
outrageous an execution as the killing; twenty 
ar thirty naked favages , for an offence vhich 
I had not at all entered into a difcuffion of in 
iny thoughts , any farther than my paffions 
were at firfl firea by the horror I conceived 
at the unnatural cuflom of the people of that 
country , who , it feems , had been fuffered 
by Providence , in His wife difpofition of the 
woxld 9 to have no other guide dian that of 
their own abominable and vitiated paffions j 
and , confequently , were left , and perhaps had 
been for fome ages , to act fuch horrid things , 
and receive fuch dreadful cufloms , as nothing 
but nature , entirely abandoned of Heaven , ana 
actuated by hellifh degeneracy , could have nm 
them into : but now , when , as I have faid ^ 
J begs^n to be weary of the fruitleis eycurfiom 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CHITSTJE. ^45 

which I had made fo lox^ , and fo far , every 
.momingf , in vaiot; fo my opinicm of the ac- 
tion itfetf began to alter ; and, with cooler 
and calmer thoughts , I confidered what it was 
I was goii:>g to. engage in; what authority or 
call I had , to pretend to be judge and execu- 
tioner upon thefe men. as crimihals, whom 
Heaven had thou^ fit , for fo many ages^ 
to fuffer, ;unpuniflied , to go on, and to be , 
as it were , the executioners of His judgments 
upon OTiQ another; alfa haw far theft people 
■were offenders againfi me , and what right I 
had to engage in the quarrel of that blood i, 
which they had flied ptomifououfly one upon 
another, I debated this very often with my- 
felf thi?$ — *^How ddl know what God him^ 
„ felf Judges in this particular cafe? Itiscer^ 
„ tain thefe people do not commit this ai a 
„ crime ; it i$ not againil: their own confcienccs 
„ -reproving , or their light reproaching themt 
„ They do. not'khow it to be an oflfence, and 
„ then commit.it in defiance of Divine Juf- 
^ tice , a$ ve do in: almoft all the fins we 
„ commit* They diink it no more a crime to 
„ kill a captive takoi in' '^ar , than we do to 
^ kill an 0% ; nor to eat human fleih , than 
^ we do to eat mutton. *' 

When I had confidered this a little , it fol- 
lowed necpflarily , that I was certainly in the 
wr^ng; that thefie people were not murderers 
in tb^ fwfe that I had before condemned them 
in my tbowghts, any .more :than thofe Chris* 

x: 3 



d by Google 



U6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ii3,ns were murderers , who often put to deaA 
the prifoners taken in battle, or more fre^ 
quently , upon many oceafions , put whofe 
troops of men to the fword , without giving 
quarter, though they thr^w down th^ir arms, 
'^nd fubmitted. 

In the next place, it occurred to me, that 
iilbeit the ufage they gave one another was 
thus brutiih and inhuman , yet it was nothing 
to me : thefe people had done me no injury ; 
that if they attempted to injure me , or I faw 
it neceffary for my immediate prefervation ta 
fell upon them , fomething might be faid for 
it ; but that I was yet out of their power , 
and they had really no knowledge of me, 
and confequently no defign upon me; and 
therefore it could not be juft for me to fell 
upon them : that this w ould juftify the con^ 
duct of the Spaniards , in all their barbarities 
practifed in America, where they deftroved 
millions of thefe people; who, however they 
were idolaters ana barbarians , and had feveral 
bloody and barbarous rites in their cuftoms , 
fuch as facrificing human bodies to their idols ^ 
were yet, as to the Spaniards , very innocent 
people; and that the rooting them out of the 
country is fpoken of with the utmoft abhor- 
rence and deteftation, even by the Spaniards 
themfelves , at this time , and by all other 
Chriftian nations of Europe, as a mere but-i 
chery , a bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty, 
unjuftifiable either to God oc m^j an4 iv^ 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1247 
as for which the very name of a Spaniard k 
reckoned to be frightful and terrible to all 
people of humanity, or 6f Chriftian cotnpaf- 
fion , as if the kingdom of Spain were parti-» 
cularly eminent for the product of a race of 
men, who were without principles of tender-* 
nefs, or the common bowels of pity to the 
miferable, which is reckoned to be ^ mark of 
a generous temper in the mind. 

Thefe confiderations really put me to a 
paufe, and to a kind of full ftop ; and I begaa 
by little and little to be off of my defign,,^ 
and to conclude I had taken wrong meafures 
in my refolutions to attack the f?CVages ; that 
it was not my bufinefs to meddle with them , 
unlefs they firft attacked me, and this it was 
my bufinefs , if poffible , to prevent ; but that , 
if I were difcovered c^nd attacked , then I knew 
my duty. 

On the other hand, I argued with myfelf, 
that this really was the way not to deliver 
myfelf, but entirely to ruin and deftroy my- 
felf; for unlefs I was fure to kill every one 
that not only fliould be on fliore at that time ^ 
but fliould ever come on fliore afterwards ; 
if but one of them efcaped to tell their coun- 
try-people what had happened, they wouI<J 
come over again by thoufands to revenge th^ 
death of their fellows; and I fliould only 
bring upon myfelf a certain deftruction , which 
gt prefent I had no manner of occafion for, 
Vpon the whole J I cpncluded, thatj^n^-* 



d by Google 



548 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ther in principles nor in policy, I ought one 
way or other to concern myfelf in this affair r 
that my bufinefs was, by all poflihle means^ 
to conceal myfelf from them, and not to 
leave the leaft fignal to them to guefs by , 
that there were any living creatures upoa 
the ifland ; I mean , of human ftiape. 

Religion joined in with thefe thoughts , and 
I was convinced now, many '^ays, that I 
was perfectly out of my duty, when I was 
laying all my bloody fchemes fox the deftruc- 
tion of innocent creatures; I mean, innocent 
as to me ; as to the crimes they were guilty 
of towards one another , I had nothing to da 
with them ; there vere national punifnment$ 
to make a juft retribution for national off^nces;^ 
and to bring public judgments upon thofe 
who offend in a puHic manner , by fuch way^ 
as beft pleafe God. 

This appeared fo clear to me npjv , that 
nofliing wis a greater Satisfaction to me, than 
that I had not been fuffered to do a thing 
which I now faw fo much reafon to believe 
would have been no lefs a fin , than that of 
wilful murder, if I had committed it; and I 
gave moft humble thanks on my knees ta 
God , who had thus delivered me friCMn- blood*- 
guiltinefs; befeeching hm to grant me thp 
protection of his providence, that J mig)^t 
not fair into the hands of barbarians; ox that 
I might not lay my hands mon them 7 "H- 
lefs I had a more clear call from H^aym tO; 
do it, in defence of my own life* 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 249 
In this difpofition I continued for near a 
year ; and fo far was I from defiring an oc- 
casion for falling upon thefe wretches, that 
in all that time I never once went up the 
hill to fee whether there were any of them 
in fight , or to know whether any of them 
had been on fhore there or not ; that I might 
not be tempted to renew any of my contri- 
vances againft them , or be provoked by any 
advantage which might prefent itfelf , to fall 
upon them : only this I did ; 1 went and re- 
moved my boat , which I had on the other 
fide the ifland, and carried it down to the 
eaft-end of the whole ifland , where I ran it 
into a little cove vhich I found under fome 
high rocks, and where I knew, by reafon 
of the currents, the ftvages durft not, at 
leaft would not, come with their boats , upon 
any account whatever. 

With my boat I carried away every thing 
I had left there belonging to her , though no< 
neceflfary for the bare goine thither; viz. a 
maft and fail , which I had made for her , 
and a thing like an anchor, but, indeed, 
which could not be called either anchor or 
grappling ; however , it vas the beft I could 
make of its kind. All thefe I removed , that 
there might not be the leaft fhadow of any 
difcovery , or appearance of boat , or of any 
habitation, upon the ifland. 

Befides this , I kept myfelf, as I faid , mor^ 
retired than ever ^ and feldom went from my 



d by Google 



-^ 



250 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

cell, other than upon my conftant employ- 
ment, viz. to milk my flie-goats, and ma- 
nage my little flock in the wood ; which being 
on the other part of the ifland, was quite 
out of danger : for certain it is, that thtfe 
iavage people, who fometimes haunted this 
ifland, never came with thoughts of finding, 
any thing here , and confequently never wan* 
dered ofF from the coaft ; and I doubt not , 
but they might have, been feveral times oh 
iKore , after my apprehenfions of them hacj 
pi.ide me cautious^ as well ^before; and, 
indeed , I looked back with^ fome horror upon 
the thoughts of w hat my condition wo^ald 
havebeen.^ if I had chopped 4;^n them,. anci 
been difcovered btfore that , when-naked and 
unarmed ,, except with one gun,, and that 
loaded oftt^n only with finall fhot. L walked 
every' where, peeping about the ifland, to 
fee what I could get ; what a furprize fliould 
I have been in, if when I difcovened the 
print of a man's foot, I had inftead of that ^ 
feen fifteen or twenty favages^ and. found 
them purfuing me; and,. by the fwiftnefeof 
their runnings no poffibility of nfiy- efcapifng^, 
them ! 

TTie thoughts of this fometimes funk my 
very foul within me, and diftreffed my mind 
fo much , that I could not foon recover it^, 
to think what T fliould have done^ and that 
I not only ftioufd have been ab]e> to refift 
them^ bait even fliouldnot hayeha4'Pi^^snce 



d by Google 



OT ROBINSON CRUSOE. 251 

of mind enough to do what I might have 
done; much lefs, what now, after lb much 
confideration and* preparation, I might be able 
to do. Indeed, after ferioufly thinking of 
I thefe things, Ifrequerrtly became melancholy, 
and fometimes it would alk a great While; 
but at length, ^on due reflection, I changed 
;my mehncholy into thankfulnefs to that Pro- 
vidence ^-ho had delivered. me from lb many 
'tmfeen dangers., and hadlcept me from thole 
mifchicfe Which I could no- way Have been 
the agent in delivering myftlf from; becaufe 
I had not^he Icaft notion of any luch thing 
depending , ^rthc leaft fuppofrtion of its being 
poffible. 

This renewed -arontemplatron , which often 
had come to my thoughts at former times , 
when fiT*ft i ht^gan to fee the merciful difpo- 
fitions of heaven in the dangers we meet\iith 
in this life; haw wonderfully we are deli- 
Arered when we kno WTiothing of it : that v\ hen 
we are in a qiiGndarv ^ (.as ^^:e call it) a 
doubt or hefitatroh., w^hether to go this way 
or that way , a fecret hmt fhall direct us this 
vay , when ve irrtended to go that ; nay ^ 
when fenfe, our own inclination, and perhaps 
bufincfs has called to go the other way , yet 
a ftrange impreflton upon the mind, from we 
know not what pOAver, fhall over-rule us to 
^ this way; and it fhall after^it'ards appear , 
that had we gone that way which we would 
have gone, and even to our imagination ought 



d by Google 



§52 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

to have gone , we fhould have been ruined 
and loft; upon thefe, and many like reflec- 
tions, I afterwards made it a certain rule, that 
whenever I found thofe fecret hints, or pref- 
fings of my mind, to do or not do any thing 
that prefented^ or to go this way or that 
way, I never failed to obey the fecret die-* 
tate; though I knew no other reafon for it, 
than that fuch a preffure , or fuch an hint , 
hung upon my mind. I could give many ex- 
amples of the fuccefs of this conduct in the 
courfe of my life ; but more efpecially in the 
latter part of my inhabiting this unhappy is- 
land; befides many occafions which it is very 
likely I might have taken notice of, if I had 
feen w ith the fame eyes then that I faw w ith 
now : but it is never too late to be w.ife : and 
I cannot but recommend to dll confidering 
men , "whofe lives are attended with fuch ex- 
traordinary incidents as mine , or even though 
not fo extraordinary , not to flight fuch fecret 
intimations of Providence, let them come 
from what invifible intelligence they may; 
that I fliall not difcufs, and perhaps cannot 
Account for ; but certainly they are proof of 
the converfe of fpirits. and a fecret commu- 
nication between thofe embodied and thofe 
unembodied; and fuch a proof as Cannot be 
withftood ; of which 1 fliall have occafion to 
give fome very remarkable inftances in the 
remainder of piy folitary refidence in this dif- 
mal place* 

I believe 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 253 

I believe the reader will not think it ftrange, 
iflconfefs that thefe anxieties, thefe conftant 
<langers I lived in , and the concern that was 
now upon me , put an end to all invention , 
and to all contrivances , that I had laid for 
my future accommodations and conveniences. I 
had the care of my fafety more now upon my 
hands than that of my food. I was unwilling 
even to drive a nail , or chop a ftick of wood, 
for fear the noife I fliould make might be heard ; 
much lefs would I fire a gun, for the fame 
reafon ; and , above all , I was very uneafy at 
making any fire , left the fmoke , which is vi- 
fible at a great diftance in the day , fliould be- 
tray me ; and for this reafon I removed that 
part of my bufinefs which required fire , fuch 
as burning of pots and pipes , etc. into my new 
apartment in the wood; where, after I had 
been fome time , I found , to my unfpeaka- 
ble confolation, a mere natural cave in the 
earth , which went in a vaft way , and where , 
I dare fay, no favage, had he been *at the 
mouth of it , w^ould be fo hardy as to venture 
in ; nor , indeed , would any man elfe , but one 
who , like me , wanted nothing fo much as ^ 
fafe retreat. 

The mouth of this hollow was at the bot- 
tom of a great rock , where , by mere acci- 
dent, ( I would fay, if I did not fee an abun- 
dant reafon to afcribe all fuch things now to 
Providence ) I was cutting down fome thick 
brancheis of trees to make charcoal. This wa» 

Vol. I Y 



d by Google 



MSA LIFE AN^D ADVtNTUR^S 

a very effential article , and the method I took 

to make it was as follows : 

I was afraid of making a fmoke about my 
habitation and yet I could not live there wi- 
thout baking my bread , cooking my meat., 
etc. fo I contrived to bum fome wood as. I 
had feen done in England under turf, till it 
became chark , or dry coal ; and then putting 
the fire out , I preferved the coal to can:y 
home , and perform the other fervices , which 
fire was wanting for at home, without dan- 
ger or fmoke. 

But this by the bye. While I was cutting 
down fome wood here, I perceived that be- 
hind a very thick branch of low brufli-wood , 
or under-wood , there was a kind of hollow 
place : I was curious to look into it; and get- 
ting, with difficulty , into tlie mouth of it, 
I found it was pretty large, that is to lay , 
fufficient for me to ftand upright in , and per-« 
haps another with me ; but I muft confefs to 
you , I made more hafte out than I did in ; 
when looking farther into the place, which 
was perfectly dark , I faw two broad (hining 
eyes of fome creatur^^ whether devil or man , 
I knew not, which twinkled like two ftars , 
the dim light from the cave's mouth fhining 
4irectly in , and making the reflection. 

However , after fome paufe , Itecovered my'- 
ielf , and thought that he who was afraid to 
fee the devil was not fit to live twenty y^satf 
in an ifland^l alone , and. that I'dar^ believe ^ 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1255 

there vas nothing in this cave more frightflil 
than myfelf ; upon this , affuming courage , I 
took up a large firebrand , and in I ruflied again , 
with the ftick flaming in my hand. I had not 
gone three fteps in , but I was almoft as much 
frightened as I was before ; for I heard a very 
loud figh^ hke that of a man in fome pain ; 
and it was followed by a broken noife , as if 
of words half expreffed , and then a deep figh 
again. I ftepped back , and was indeed ftruck 
with fuch a furprize , that it put me into a 
cold fweat ; and if I had had a hat on my head , 
I will not anfwer for it, that my hair might 
not have lifted it off. But ftill plucking up my 
^irits as well as I could , and encouraging my- 
felf a little , with confidering that the power 
and prefence of God was every where , and 
was able to protect me : upon this I ftepp«d 
forward again , and by the light of a firebrand , 
holding it up a little over my head, I fkw lying 
on the ground a moft monftrous frightful old 
he-goat, juft making his will, as we fay , gap- 
ping for life , and dying indeed of mere ol4 
age. 

I ftirred him a little , to fee if I could get 
him out ; and he eflayed to get up , but was 
not able to raife himfelf : and I thought with 
myfelf, he might e'en lie there; for if he h^d 
frightened me fb , he would certainly fright 
any of the favages , if any of them fhould be 
io hardy as to come in there while he had any 
life in him, 

Y a 



d by Google 



stS6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

I was now recovered from my fiirpri^c ^ 
and began to look round , when I found the 
cave was but very fmall ; that is to fay , it 
might be about twelve feet over , but in no 
manner of fliape , either round or fquare , no 
hands having ever been employed in making, 
it but thbfe of mere nature. I obferved alfo , 
that there was a piace on one iide t)f it that 
went in farther , but fo law , that if requi- 
red me to creep upon my hands and knees to 
get into it; and whiter it went I knew not j 
fo having no candle , I gave it over for fome 
time , but refolved to come again the next 
day 5 provided with candles and a tinder-box ^ 
which I had made of the lock of one of the 
mufquets , with feme wild*fire in the pan. 

Accordingly , the next day I went provided 
with fix large candles of my own making f 
for I made very good candles now of goats 
tallow ; and, going into this low place , I was- 
obliged to creep upon all fours , as I have faid , 
alnroft ten yards ; m hich , by the way, I thought 
was a venture bold enough y confidering , that 
I knew not how far it might go , or what wa* 
beyond it ; when I was got through the ftrait , 
I found the roof rofe higher up ; I believe near 
twenty feet ; but never was fuch a glorious 
fight leen in the ifiand , 1 dare fay , as it was, 
to look round the fides and roof of this vault 
or cave ; the walls reflected an hundred thou-^ 
find lights to me from my two candles ; what 
it was in the rock , whether diamonds , or any 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 257 

other precious ftenes , or gold , which I ra-*' 
ther fuppofed it to be, I knew not. 

The place I was in was in a moft delightful 
cavity or grotto of it's kind , as could be ex* 
pected , though perfectly dark ; the floor was 
dry and level , and had a fort of fmall loofe 
gravel upon it ; fo that there was no naufeousi 
creature to be feen ; neither was there any damp 
Or wet on the fides of the roof ; the only dif» 
ficulty in it was the entrance, which, how- 
ever , as it was a place of fecurity , andfuch a 
retreat as I wanted , I thought that was a con- 
venience ; fo that 1 was really rejoiced at th^ 
fllifcovery , and refolved , without any delay , 
to bring fome of thofe things which I was. 
ipoft anxibusc about , to this place ; particu- 
larly, I refolved to bring hither my magazine 
of powder, and all my fpare arms , viz. two 
fowling-pieces , ( for I had three in all ) and 
three mufquets , ( for of them I had eight in 
all ; ) fo I kept at my caftle only five , which 
Hood ready mounted , like pieces of cannon ^ 
on my outer fenc^ ; and were ready alfi^ to 
take out upon any expedition. 

Upon this occafion of removing my ammu 
nition, I was obliged to open the barrel ol 
powder which I took up out of the fea , and 
which had been wet ; and I found that the wa- 
ter had penetrated about three or four inches 
into the powder on every fide , which , ca- 
Icing and growing hard , had preferyed the in.^ 
fi4e Uk^ ^.k^rnipl in a ftiell ; fo that I had n^.» 

^3 



d by Google 



558 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
frxty pounds of very good powder in the cen-^' 
tre of the calk ; and this was an agreeable dis- 
covery to me at that time; fo I carried all 
away thither, never keeping above two or three 
pounds of powder with me in my caftle, for 
fear of a furprize of any kind. I alfo carried 
thither all the lead I had left for bullets. 

I fancied myfelf nov like one of the an- 
cient giants J which were faid to live in ca- 
ves and holes in the rocks , where none could 
come at them ; for I perfuaded myfelf while 
I was here , if five hundred favages were ta 
hunt me , they could never find me out , or if 
they did ^ they would not venture to attack 
me here. / 

The old goat', "which I found expiring , died 
in the mouth of the cave , the next day after 
I made this difeovery ; and I found it much 
cafier to dig a great hole there , and throw 
Iiim in and cover him with earth , than ta 
drag him out ; fo I interred him there , to pre- 
vent offence to my nofe. 

I was now in the twenty-third year of my 
refidence in this ifland , and was fo naturali- 
2ed to the place, and to the manner of living ^ 
that could I have but enjoyed the certainty 
that no favages would come to the place ta 
difturb me , I could have been content to have 
capitulated for fpending the reft of my time 
there, even to the laft moment, till I h^d 
laid me dov. n and died like the old goat iff 
ihe cave ; I bad alfo arrived to fome littk 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 259 

^verfions and amufements , which made the 
time pafs more pleafantly with me a great deal 
than it did before ; as , firft , I had taught my 
Pol , as I noted before , to fpeak : and he did 
it fo familiarly , and talked fo articulately and 
plain , that it was very pleafant to me ; and 
he lived with me no lefs than fix and twenty 
years ; how long he might live afterwards , I 
knew not ; though I know they have a notion 
in the Brazils , that they live an hundred years ; 
perhaps fome of my rols may be alive there 
ftill , calling after " Poor Robinfon Crufoe , ** 
to this day ; I wifh no Englifliman the ill- 
luck to come there and hear them ; but if he 
did , he would certainly believe it was the 
devil. My dog was a very pleafant and lo- 
ving companion to me for no lefs than fix- 
teen years of my time , and then died of mere 
old age ; as for my cats , they multiplied , as 
I have obferved , to that degree , that I was 
obliged to fhoot feyeral of them at firft , to 
keep them firom devouring me and all I had ; 
but at length , when the two old ones I brought 
with me were gone , and after fome time con- 
tinually driving them from me., and letting 
them have no provifion with me , they all ran 
wild into the woods , except two or three fa- 
vourites , which I kept tame, and whofe young, 
when they had any , I always drowned ; and 
thefe were part of my family. Befides thefe , 
I always kept two or three houfliold kids about 
me, which I taught to feed out of my h^j 



d by Google 



%6o LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

and I had alfo more parrots , which talked 
pretty well , and would all call <* Robin Cnn 
foe , " but none like my firft ; nor , indeed ,^ 
did I take the pains with any of them that I 
had done with him : I had alfo feveral tame 
fea-fowls , whofe names I knew not, which 
I caught upon the fliore , and cut their wings ; 
and the little flakes, which I had plan ted be- 
fore my caftle-wall , being now grown up to 
a, good thick grove , thefe fo wis all lived among 
thefe low trees, and bred there, which was 
Very agreeable to me ; fo that I began to be 
very well contented with the life I led , if it 
might but have been f^cured from^ the dread of 
favages. 

But it was otherwife directed : and it may 
not be amifs for all people who read my ftory , 
to. make this juft observation from it; viz. how 
frequently , in the courfe of our lives , the evil , 
which in itfelf we feek moft to fhun , and 
which , when we are fallen into , is the moft 
dreadful to us , is oftentimes the very means 
or door of our deliverance , by which alone- 
we can be raifed again from the affliction we 
are fallen intQ. I could give many examples of 
this in the courfe of my life ; but in nothing 
was it more particularly remarkable , than in 
the circumftances of my laft years of folitary 
refidence in riiisifland. 

It was now the month of December, in my- 
twenty-third year ; and this being the foutheri\ 
felflke, for winter I csttinotc^l it, was dt^t- 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. <i6i 
particular time of my harveft , and required my 
being pretty much abroad in the fields. Gbing 
Cut one morning pretty early , even before it 
•was thorough day-light , I was furprized with 
feeing a light of fome fire upon the ihore , at 
a diftance from me of about two miles , to- 
wards the end of the*ifland , where I had ob- 
ferved fome favages had been , as before ; though 
not on the other fide; but , to my great af- 
fliction , it was on my fide of the ifland. 

I was , indeed , terribly affrighted at the 
fight ^ and flopped ihort within my grove , not 
daring to go out ^ left I might be furprized ; 
and yet I had no more peace within , from the 
apprehenfions I had , that if thefe favages , in 
rambling over the ifland , fliould find my corn 
ftanding , or cut , or any of my works and 
improvements , they w ould immediately con- 
clude that there were people in the place , and 
would then never give over till they found me 
out. In this extremity t went back directly to 
my caflle , and pulled up the ladder after me , 
taving made all things without Jook as wild 
and natural as I could. 

I then made preparations for putting my- 
felf in a pofture of defence ; I loaded all my 
cannon , as I called them , that is to fay , my 
mufquets , which were mounted upon my new 
fortification , and all my piftols , and relolv^d 
to defend myfelf to the laft effort ; not for- 
getting ferioufly to recommend myfelf to the 
Divine Protection , and eameftly tQ pray to 



d by Google 



^6a LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

God to deliver me out qf the hands of the Bar- 
barians : and in this pofture I continued about 
two hours , when I began to be impatient for 
intelligence abroad , but I had no fpies to fend 
out. 

After fitting fome time longer , and mufing 
what I (houfld do in this cafe , I was not able 
to bear fitting in ignorance longer ; fo fetting 
up my ladder to the fide of the hill , wherei 
there was a flat place , and then pulling the 
ladder up after me , I fet it up again , and moun-» 
ted to the top of the hill ; and pulling out 
my perfpectiye-glafs , which I had taken on 
purpofe , I laid me down flat on my belly on 
the ground , and began to look for the place ; 
I prefently found there were no lefs than ninei 
naked favages fitting round a fmall fire they 
had mad^ ; not to warm them , for they had 
no need of that , the weather being extreme 
hot ; but , as I fuppofe , to drefs fome of their 
barbarous diet of human flefli , which they had 
brought with them , whether alive or dead I 
eould not t«ll. 

They had two canoes with them , which 
they had hauled upon the fliore ; and , as it 
was then tide of ebb , they feemed to me to 
wait the return of the flood to go away again. 
It is not eafy to imagine vvhat conftifion this, 
fight put me into , efpecially feeing them come 
on my fide the ifland , and fo near me too ; 
but when I obferved their coming muft be aU 
way$ with the current of the ebb , I began 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRIJSOE. 263 

afterwards to be more fedate in my mind , 
being fatisfied that I might go abroad with 
>fafety ,.all the time of tide of flood , if they 
were not'On -feore before; and having made 
this obfervation, I \^ent abroad about my 
harveft-work wdth the more compofure. 

As I expected, fo it^ proved ; for as foon as 
the tide made to the weftward , I few ;them 
all take boat, and row (or paddle, as we 
call it ) all away. I {hould have obferved ^ 
that for an hour and. more before their de- 
parture they went to danci'ng, and I could 
cafily difcern their poftures and geftures by 
jny glafles : I could not perceive, by my 
niceft obfervations, but that they were ftarlc- 
jiaked-j.and had not the leaft covering upon 
them ; tut whether they were men or wo- 
men, that 1. could not diftinguifh. 

As foon as I few them fliipped and gonc^ 
I took two guns upc«v my. flioulders , and two 
piftol^ at my girdle , and my great fword by 
my fide without a fcabbard; and with all the 
ipeed I was able to make, I went away to 
the hill , where I had difcovered the firft ap- 
pearance of all. As foon as I -got thither ^ which 
was not lefs than two hoUrs , (for I could 
not go faft, being fo loaded wkh arms as! 
Was) I perceived there had been three canoes 
more of fevages on that place; and looking 
cut ferther , I few they were all at fea toge- 
ither, making over for the main. 

This was a dreadfUl £ght to me , ef^cially 



d by Google 



ft64 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

when , going down to the fhore , I could fee 
the marks or horror which the difmal work 
they had been about had left behind : viz, 
the blood, the bones, and part of the fle/h 
of human bodies , eaten and devoured by thofe 
wretches with merriment and fport. I was fo 
filled with indignation at the fight, that I 
began now to premeditate the deftructioa 
bf the next I ftiould fee there, let them be 
who or how many foever. 

It feemed evident to me, that the vifits 
which they thus made to this iAand were not 
very frequent ; for it was above fifteen months 
before any more of them were on fliore there 
again; that is to fay, I never faw them, 
or any footftepsor fignals of them, in all that 
time»: for as to the rainy feafiDns, they are 
then fure not to come abrojd, at leaftnotfo 
far; yet, all this while I lived uncomforta- 
bly , by reafon of the conftant apprehenfions 
I was in of their coming upon me by fur-- 
prize : from whence I obferve , that the ex- 
pectatidn of evil is more bitter than the fuf- 
fering , efpecially if there is no room to (hake 
off that expectation or thofe apprehenfions. 

During all this time , I was in the mur- 
dering humour , and took up moft of my hours, 
which (hould have been better employed , in 
contriving how to circumvent and fell upoa 
them the very next time I fhould fee them; 
efpecially if they {houM be divided , as they 
Xvere the laft time, into two parties; nor did 

I confider 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 265 

I "coniider at all ^ that if I killed one party, 
fuppofe ten or a dozen , I was ftill the next 
day , or week , or month , to kill another , 
and fo another, even ad infinitum , till I 
fhould be at length no lefs a murderer than 
they were in being men-eaters, and perhaps 
much more fo. 

I fpent my days now in great perplexity 
and anxiety of mind, expecting I iliould, 
one day or other, fell into the hands of thefe 
mercilefs creatures ; if I did at any time ven- 
ture abroad, it was n6t without looking 
round me with the greateft care and caution 
imaginable ; and now I found , to my great 
comfort, how happy it was that I had pro- 
vided a tame flock or herd of goats ; for I 
durft not , upon any account , fire my gun , 
efpecially near that fide of the ifland vhere 
they ufually came , left I fliould alarm the 
favages ; and if they had fled from me now , 
I was fure to have them come back again , 
vith perhaps two or three hundred canoes 
with them in a few days, and then I knew 
what to expect. 

However, I vore out a year and three 
months more, before I faw any more of the 
favages , and then I found them again , as 
I fliall foon obferve. It is true, they might 
have been there once or twice; but either they 
made no ftay , or at leaft I did not hear 
them; but in the month of May, as near as' 
I could calculate , and in my four and twen- 
VoL L Z 



d by Google 



-66 LIFE ANI> ADVENTURES 

tieth year , I had a very ftrange encountor T 
with them , of which in its place. 

The perturbation of my mind , during the 
laft fifteen or fixteen months interval, was 
very great : I flept unquiet , dreamed always 
frightful dreams, and often ftarted out of my 
fleep in the night; in the day great troubles 
overwhelmed my mindj in the night I drea- 
med often of killing the favages , and the rea- 
fons \ihy I might, juftify fuch conduct. But 
to wave all diis for a time, it was in the 
middle of May, on the i6th day, I think, 
as well as my poor wooden calender would 
reckon; for I marked all upon the poftftill; 
I fay , it was on the j 6th of May , that it 
blew a violent ftorm of wind all day , with 
a great deal of lightning and thunder, and 
the whole of the night was truly difmal in- 
deed. I know not what was the particular 
occafion of it , but as I was reading in the 
bible , and taken up with ferious thoughts 
about my prefent condition , I was furprized 
with the noife of a gun , as 1 thought , fired 
at Tea. 

This was , to be fure, a furprizeof a quite- 
different nature from any I had met with be- 
fore; for the notions this put into my thoughts 
were quite of another kind. I ftarted up in 
the greattft hafte imaginable; and in a trice 
clapped up my ladder to the middle place of 
the rock , and pulled it after me , and moun- 
ting it the fecond time, got to the top of 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 267 

the hill ; that very moment a flafh of fire made 
me liften for a fecond gun , which , accor- 
dingly , in abom half a moment, I heard, 
and by the found knew it was from that part 
of the fea where I was driven out with the 
current in my boat. 

I immediately confidered , that this muft be 
{ome (hip in diftrefs , and that they had fome 
comrade, or fome other ftiip in company, 
and fired thefe guns for fignals of diftrefs , 
and to obtain help. I had, however, fuch 
•prefence of mind at that minute , as to think, 
that though I could not help them , it might 
J>e they could help me ; fo I brought toge- 
Aer all the dry wood I could get at hand , 
and making a very confiderable pile, I kt 
k on fire wpon the hill; the wood was dry, 
and blazed freely; and diough the wind blew 
very hard , yet it burnt feirly out , fo that I 
was certain , if there w^as any fuch thing as 
a fliip, they muft needs fee it, and no doubt 
they did ; for as (oon as ever my fire blazed 
up, I heard another gun, and after Aat fe- 
veral others, all from the fame quarter. I 
plied my fire all night long, till day broken 
and when it was broad day, and the air clea- 
red up, I faw fomething at a great diftance 
at fea, ftiU eaft of the ifland , whether a fail ^. 
or an hull , I could not diftinguifli , no not 
with my glafles, the diftance was fo great, 
and the weather ftill fomething hazy alfa : 
Kt le^ft it w^ Co out at fea. 

Z. 2 



d by Google 



a68 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

I looked frequently at it all that day, and 
foon perceived that it did not mofve; fo I 
prefently concluded , that it was a fliip at an- 
chor; and being eager, you may be furc, to 
be fatisfied , I took my gun in my hand , and 
ran towards the fouth-eaft fide of the ifland, 
to the rocks , where I had been formerly car- 
ried avay with the current; and getting up 
there , the weather by this time being perfect- 
ly clear , I could plainly fee , to my great 
/orrow, the wreck of a mip caft away in the 
night upon thofe concealed rocks which I 
found when I was out in my boat ; and which 
rocks , as they checked the violence of the 
ftream, and made a kind of coiinter-ftream 
or eddy , were the pccafion of my recove- 
ring then from the moft defperate, hopelefe 
.Condition that ever I had been in all my life. 

Thus , what is one man's fafety , is another 
man's deftruction ; for it feems , thefe men , 
whoever they were , being out of their know- 
ledge , and the rocks being wholly under wjj- 
ter , had been driven upon them in the night, 
the wind blowing hard at E. and E. N. E.. 
Had they feen the iiland , as I neceflarily fup- 
pofe they did not, they muft, as I thought , 
have endeavoured to have faved themfelves on 
Ihore by the help of their boat ; but their firing 
of their guns for help , efpecially when they 
(aw , as I imagined , my fire, filled me with 
many thoughts . Firft, I imagined , that , upon 
feeing my light, they would have got into 



d by Google 



OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. 269 

their boat^ and have endeavoured to make 
the fliore ; but that the fea running very high y.. 
they might have been caft away, I then thought^ 
that they might have loft their boat before , 
as might be the cafe tnanv ways ; as parti- 
cularly by the breaking or the fea upon their 
fliip , which many times obliges men to ftav^ 
or take in pieces their boat, and fometimes 
to throw it overboard with their own hands : 
©ther times I imagined , they had feme other 
fliip or fhips ia company,, wha, upon the 
fignajs of diftrefe they had made , had taken 
them up , and carried them off : at other ti- 
mes , I fencied they were all gone off to fea 
in* their boat ^ and being hurried away by the 
current that I had been formerly in , were car- 
ried out into the great ocean , where there was 
nothing but mifery and the profpect of death ; 
and thatperhaps they might by this time think 
of ftarving,. and of being in a condition to eat 
one another^ 

As all thefe vere but conjectures at beft , fo, 
in the condition I was in , I could do no more 
than look upon the mifery of the poor men . 
and pity them ; which had flill this good ef- 
fect on my fide , that it gave me more ana 
more caufe to give thanks to God , who had 
fo happily and comfortably provided for me 
in my defolate condition; and that of two 
fliips companies who were now cafl away upon 
this part of the world, not one life ihould be 
%aie.d hut miae. I learaed here again to oL*. 



^ 



d by Google 



t^yo LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ferve , that It is very rare the providence of 
God cafts us into any condition of life , fo low , 
or any mifery fo great , but we may fee fome- 
thing or other to be thankful for , and may 
find others in worfe circumftances than our- 
felves. 

Such certainly was the cafe with thefe men , 
of whom I could not fo much as fee room to 
fuppofe any of them were faved ; nothing could 
make it reafonable fo much as to expect that 
they did not all perifh there , except the pof- 
fibility only of their being taken up by ano- 
ther mip in company : and this was but mere 
poffibility indeed ; for I faw not the leaft fignal 
or appearance of any fuch thing. 

I cannot explain , by any poffible energy 
of words , what a ftrange longing , or hanke- 
ring of defire , I felt in my foul upon this fight ; 
treaking out fometimes thus , " O that there 
,, had been but one or two , nay , or but one 
„ foul faved out of the fhip , to have efca- 
„ ped to me , that I might but have had one 
„ companion , one fellow-creature , to have 
,, fpoken to me ,^nd to have converfed with ! '* 
In all the time of my folitary life , I never felt 
fo earnetl , fo ftrong a defire after the fociety 
of my fellow-creaturesi, or fo deep a regret at 
#he want of it. 

There are fome fecret moving fprings in the 
affections , which , when they are fet a going 
by ^ome object in view , or be it fome object 
though not in view , yet rendered prefent to 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, a;! 

the mind by the power of imagination , that 
motion carries out the foul by its impetuofity 
to fuch violent , eager embracings of the ob- 
ject , that the abfence of it is infupportable. 

Such were thefe earned vvifliings , that but 
one man had been faved! *^ O that it had been 
,, but one! *' I believe Irepeated the words, " O 
„ that it had been but one ! *' a thoufand ti- 
mes ; and my defires were fo moved by it , 
that when I fpoke the words , my hands would 
clench together , and my fingers prefs the palms 
of my hands , that if I had had any foft thing 
in my hand , it would have cruflied it invo^ 
luntarily; and my teeth in my head would 
ftrike together , and fet againft one another fo 
ftrong , that for fome time I could not part 
them again. 

Let the naturalifts explain thefe things , and 
the reafon and manner of them : all I can fay 
is, to defcribe the fact , which was ever fur- 
prizing to me when I found it , though I knew 
not from what it fhould proceed ; it was doubt- 
lefs the effects of ardent wifhes , and of flrong 
ideas formed in my mind , realizing the com- 
fort which the converfation of one of my fel- 
low-chriflians would have been to me. 

But it was not to be : either their fate or 
mine, or both, forbade it; for till the lafl 
year of my being on this ifland , I never knew 
whether any were faved out of that fhip or 
no ; and had only the affliction , fome days 
after, to fee the corpfe of «^ drgwned boy come 



d by Google 



*72 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

on fliore , at the end of the ifland, which was 
mext the fhipwreck, H^ had on no clothes ^ 
but aieamaas waiftcoat, apair of open-kneed 
linen drawers , and a blue Unen ihirt ; but no- 
thing to direct me fo much as to guefs what 
nation he was of,^ He had nothing in his poo- 
ket but two pieces of ^eight , and a tobacco- 
pipe ; the laft was to me often times more va- 
lue than the firft. 

It was nojv calm , and I had a great mind 
to venture out in my boat to this "^reck , not 
doubting but I might find fomethingoh board, 
that might be ufeful to me ; but that did not 
altogether prefs me fo much , as the poffibility 
there might be yet fome living creature oa 
board whofe life I might not only fave, but 
by faving that life , comfort my own to the 
laft degree. And this thought fo impreffed my 
heart , that I could not be quiet , night or day ^ 
but I muft venture out in my boat on board 
this wreck ; and committing the reft to God's, 
providence , I thought the impreffion was fo^ 
ftrong upon my mind that it could not be 
refifted , that it muft come from fome invifi- 
ble direction, and that I ftiQuId be wanting to. 
myfelf if I did not go. 

Under the power of this imprefEon^, I haf- 
tened back to my caftle , prepared every thing; 
for my voyage ,. took a <|uantity of bread, a. 
great pot of frefli water , a compafi to fleef 
%y , a bottle of rum , ( for I had ftill a great 
deal of that kft } a bafket fall of raifins j audi 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 273 

thus loading myfelf with every thing necef- 
fary , I went down to my boat , took the wd- 
ter out of her , and got her afloat , loaded all 
my cargo in her , and then went home again 
for more ; my fecond cargo was a great bag 
full of rice , the umbrella to kt up over my 
head for fhade , another large pot full of frem 
water , and about two dozen of my fmall loa- 
v-es , or barley -cakes , more than before , with 
a bottle of goat's milk , and a cheefe ; all vhich , 
with great labour and fweat , I brought to my 
boat , and praying to God to direct my voyage, 
I put out, and rowing or paddling the canoe 
along the fliore , I came at laft to the utmoft 
point of the ifland, on that fide, viz. N. E. 
And now I was to launch out into th^ ocean, 
and either to venture or not tQ venture ; I 
looked on the rapid currents which ran con- 
ftantly on both fides of the*ifland, at a dis- 
tance, and which were very terrible to me , 
from the remembrance of the hazard I had been 
in before , and my heart began to fail me ; for 
I forefaw , that it I was driven into either of 
thofe currents , I fliould be carried a vaft way 
out to fea , and perhaps out of my reach , or 
fight of the ifland again ; and that then, as 
my boat was but fmall , if any little gale of 
wind fhould rife , I fliould be inevitably lofl, 
Thefe thoughts fo opprefTed my mind, that 
I began to give over my enterprize , and hal- 
ving hauled my boat into a little creek on 
ijie fliore , I ftepped out j and fat me down 



d by Google 



%7^ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 
upon a littk fpot of Tifing grouiid, Very pen- 
five and anxious , between fear anddeftre about 
my voyage; when, as I was mufing,! could 
perceive that the tide was turned, and the 
flood came on, upon which my going was 
for fo many hours impracticable : upon this 
it prefently occurred ta me, that I fhould ga 
up to the higheft piece of ground I could find ^ 
-and obierve , if I could, how the fets of tlie 
tide or currents lay when the flood <:a8^ in^ 
that I might judge whether , if I was drivefi 
one way out , I might not expect to be dri- 
Ten another way home , with the fame rapi- 
dity of the currents^ This thought vas no foo- 
aer in my head, than I caft my eye vtf&a a 
little hill which fufiiciendy ov^rlooj&ed the 
fea both ways , and whaace I had a clear view 
of the currents^ or kts of the tide , and wlatch 
way I was to guide myfelf in my return. Hem 
I found , that as the current of the ebb fst out 
clofe by the fouth point of the ifland, fo the 
current of the flood fet in cWfe by the ihore 
of the north-i^e ; and that I hdd nothing to 
do but to keep to the north of the ifland in 
my return, and I fliould do well enough. 

Encouraged with ttas obfervation, I refol- 
Yed the next morning to fet out with the firft 
of the tide ; and repofing myfelf for that night 
in the canoe, under the great watchrcoat I 
mentioned , I launched out : I made firft a 
little out to fea full north , till I began to feel 
the benefit of the current , which fet eaftward ^ 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 275 

and which carried me at a great rate , and yet 
did not fo hurry me as the fouthern fide of the 
current had done before, and fo as to take 
from me all government of the boat \ but ha- 
ving a ftrong fteerage with my paddle , I went, 
I fay , at a great rate, directly for the wreck, 
and in lefs than two hours I came up to it. 

It "was a difinal fight to look at; the fhip, 
which by it's building was Spanilh , ftuck 
feft, jammed in between two rocks; all the 
ftem and quarter of her was beaten to pieces 
with the fea; and as her forecaftle, which 
ftruck on the rocks , had run on with great 
violence , the main-maft and fore-maft were 
brought by the board , that is to fay, broken 
ftort off; but her bowfprit was found, and 
the head and bow appeared firm ; when I came 
clofe to her , a dog appeared upon her ; which, 
feeing me coming , yelped and cried , and as 
foon as I called him , jumped into the fea , 
to come to:me ; and I took him into the boat, 
but found him almoft dead from hunger and 
thirft ; I gave him a cake of my bread , and 
he eat like a ravenous wolf, that had been 
ftarving a fortnight in the fnow ; I then gave 
the poor -creature fome frefli water, with 
which , if I would have let him ,- he would 
have burft himfelf* 

After this I went on board: the firfl: fight 
I met with was two men drowned in the* 
cook-room , or forecaftle of die fliip , with 
their arms h& about one another. I condu- 



d by Google 



%y6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ded, as is indeed probable, that v^hen the 
fliip ftruck , it being in a ftorm , tlie iia broke 
fo high, and fo continually over her, that 
the men were not able to bear it, and were 
ftrangled with the conftant rufliing in of the 
vater , as much as if they had been under 
water; befides the dog, there was nothing 
left in the (hip that had life , nor any goods 
that I could fee , but what were fpoiled by 
the water : there were fome calks of liquor, 
whether wine or brandy I knew not, which 
lay lower in the hold, and which, the wa- 
ter being ebbed out, I could fee; but they 
were too large to meddle with, I faw feveral 
chefts, which I believed belonged to fome of 
the feamen, and I got two of them into the 
boat, without examining what was in them. 
Had the ftem of the iriip been fixed , and 
the fore-part broken off, I am perfuaded I 
might have made a good voyage ; for by what 
I found in thefe two chefts , I had room to 
fuppofe the fhip had a great deal of wealth 
on board; and if I may guefs by the courfe 
(he fleered , (he muft have been bound from 
the Buenos Ayres , or the Rio de la Plata , 
in the fouth part of America , beyond the 
Brazils , to the Havannah , in the Gulph of 
Mexico, and fo perhaps to Spain: (he had, 
no doubt, a great treafure in her, but of no 
ufe at that time to any body ; and what be- 
came of the reft of her people I then knew 
not. 

I found, 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 277 

I found, befides thefe chefts, a little ca(kr 
full of liquor, of about twenty gallons, which 
I got into my boat with much difficulty : there 
were feveral mufquets in a cabin , and a great -^ 
powder-horn , with about four pounds of pow- 
der in it ; as for the mufquets , I had no oc^ 
cafion for them , fo I left them, but took the 
powder-horn. I took a fire-fhovel and tongs , 
which I wanted extremely ; as alfo two little 
brafs kettles^ a copper-pot to make chocolate , 
and a gridiron ; and with this cargo , and the 
dog , I came away , the tide beginning to make 
home again ; and die fame evening , about an 
hour within niglit , I reached the ifland again , 
weary and fatigued to the laft degree. 

I repofed that night in the boat , and in the 
tnorningi refolved to harbour what I had got- 
ten in my new cave , not to carry it home 
to my caftle ; after refreflxing my felf , I got all 
my cargo on Ihore, and began to examine the 
particulars : the calk of liquor I found to be 
a kind of rum , but not fuch as we had at the 
Brazils; and, in a word, not at all good; but 
when I came to open the chefts , I found fe- 
deral things which I wanted : for example , I 
found in one a fine cafe of bottles of an ex- 
traordinary Itind ^ and filled with cordial wa- 
ters , fine , and very good ; the bottles held 
about three pints each , and were tipped with 
iilver, I found two pots of very good fucca- 
des , or fweat meats , fo fsiftened alfo on the 
top, that the fait- water had not hurt them ; 
and two more of the fame , which the ^^•ate^ 
Vol. I. A a 

Digitized by VjjOOQIC 



X 



1178 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

had fpoiled. I found ioime good ftirts, which 
were very welcome to, me , aad about a do- 
zen and half of white linen handkerchiefs and 
coloured nqckgloths; the former vvea-e.alfo very 
welcome , being exceeding refrefhing to Avipe 
my. face in a hot day ; befides thi§ , vheii I 
came to the till in the chefts ,. I found there 
three great bags of pieces of eighty %vhich held 
about eleven hundred pieces in all;, and in one 
of them, wrapt up in a paper, fix doubloons 
of cold, ^nd fome fmall bars or wedges of 
gold; I fuppofe they ^^light all wejgh near a 
pound. 

The other cheft I found had fome clothes in 
it 9 but of Jittle value ; but by the circumftan- 
ces it muft have belonged to the gunner's mate ; 
though there v\:a5 no^powder in it, but about 
t^o pounds of glazedpovvderjn th% three flafks, 
kept, 1 fuppofe, for charging their fowling- 
pieces on occafion : upon the vhole^ I got 
very little by this voyage , that wa$ of much 
ufe to me : for , as to the money , I had ^np 
manner of oc^afion for it ; it vas to me. as the 
dirt under ^ny feet ; and I would have given it 
all for three or four pair of Eqglifh Ihoes or 
ffockings , which vere things I. greatly wan- 
ted , but had not had on my feet now for many 
years. I had , indeed , gotten two pair of flioes 
now , which I took off the- feet 6f the two 
drowned men , w horn I faw in the wreck ; and 
I found two pair more in one of the chefts , 
which ^vere very velcome to me , but they 
ucre not like our Englifh (hoes , either for eafe 



d by Google 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOiL 279 

Qr.fervice,being rather what we callpuii^pSfthan 
ihoes. I found in this feaman's cheft about fif^. 
pieces of eight i a royals , but no gold. I fuppofe 
this belonged to a poorer man than the other.^ 
which feemed to belong to fome officer, 

Well 5 however , I lugged this money home 
to my cave , and laid it up , as I had done that 
before^^ which I brought from our own fhip ; 
but it was a great pity^ as I faid.^ that the 
other part of the (hip bad not come to my 
{hare; for I am fatisfied I might have loaded. my 
canoe feveral times over with money , which , if 
I,hadever efcapedto- England ,, would have lain 
here Tafe enough till I ipighr have come, again 
and fetched it. • / 

Having no^ brought all my things on fliore^ 
and fecured them , I went back to my boat , 
arid rowed or paddled her along the fhore to 
her old harbour, where I bid her up, and 
m^dethe befl: .of my way t€L my old habita- 
tion , V here I found every thing iafe and quiet; 
fo I began to repofe myfelf , live after my old 
falhion, and take care of my family affairs; 
and, for a while, I lived eafy enough ;.only 
ithat I was more vigilant than I u&d to be^ 
looked out oftener , and did not go abroad fo 
much ; and if at any time I did ftir with any 
.freedom , if v/as always to the eaft part of the 
ifland, where I was- pretty well fatisfied the 
favages never came,. and where 1 could go 
without fo many precautions , and fucha load 
of arms and ammunition as I always carried 
vvith me if I went the other way. 

A a 2 



dbyGoOgI 



^ 



i«o LtFE AND ADVENTURES 

I lived in this condition hear two years mo- 
re , during which time my head was filled with 
projects and defigns , how , if it werepoffible, 
•I might get away from this ifland ; fometimes 
I was for making another voyage to the wreck , 
though my reafon told me there was nothing 
left worth the hazard of my voyage; fometi- 
mes for a ramble one way , fometimes another ; 
«nd I believe verily , if I had had the boat that 
I went from Sallee in , I ihould have ventu- 
red to fea , bound any where , I knew not 
-whither. 

I have been., in all my circumftances , a 
memento to thofe who are touched with that 
general plague of mankind , whence , for aught 
I know , one 4ialf of their miferies ilow ; I 
mean , that of not being fatisfied with the fta- 
tion wherein God and nature hath placed them : 
for, not to lookbac^k upon my primitive con- 
dition, and the excellent advice of my fether, 
^he oppofition to which was , as I may caH 
it, my original fm, my fubfequent miftakes 
-of the fame kind have been the means of my 
coming into this miferablc condition; for had 
that Providence, which fo happily had feated 
me at the Brazils , as a planter , bleUed me with 
reafonable defires , and could I have been con- 
tented to have gone on gradually , I might have 
been by this time , I mean in the time of my 
being oh this ifland, one of the moft confi- 
derable planters in the Brazils; nay , I am per- 
Yuaded , that by the improvements I had made 
in that little time I lived there , and the in- 

creafe 

Digitized by VjjOOQIC 



' OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. aSi 

c'reafe I fhould probably have made , if I had 
ftayed , I might have been worth an hundred 
thoufand moidorcs ; and what bufinefs had I 
to leave a fettled fortune , well flocked plan- 
tation , improving and increafing^ to turnfu- 
percargo to Guinea , to fetch Negroes , when 
patience and time would have fo increafed our 
flock at home, that we couH have bought 
them at our own doors , from thofe whofe bu- 
finefs it was to fetch them? And though it had 
coft us fomething more, yet the difference of 
that price was by no means worth faving at to 
great a hazard. 

But as this Is ordinarily the fate of yoimg 
heads , fo reflection upon the folly of it is as 
ordinarily the exercife of more years , or of the 
dear-bought experience of time; and fo it was 
with^ me now ; and yet fo deep had the miftake 
taken root in my temper , that I could not fa- 
tisfy myfelf in my ftatipn ,but was continually 
ponng'upon the'means ana poifibiiity of my 
efcape from this place; and that I may , with 
the greater pleafure to the reader , bring on the 
remaining part of my ftory , it may not be im- 
proper to give fome account of my firff concep- 
tions on the fubject of this foolifti fcbemefor my 
efcape, and how and upon what foundation I 
acted. y''^^'^ 



End qf th« first 




d by Google 






d by Google 



d by Google 




d by Google 




^ 



Google 



