
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



/ 






WY 




FRO^TISFIECIE 




*^^i/ i'Y/^^^/4art/ 



C-M^r*tf^ Vy vfu</^*t^ 






\ 



I F E 

Adventures. 

— r 7- , of (' ,[r-> * 

ROBINSOl!^ CRtrSOE, 



O F 



"YORK, MARIlN^ER, 

/a/^^' ut^eU' ^mA^ ^" ^// Y?'iyiw ^rij(/ n// a/{^f^- //t /?/?? u/n - 

^ HaviBg been cast on Shore f^^ Shipwreck , 

WITH AN Account 

AVritten hy> Himself /" 



VOL.1. 




L. o ]sr D o :n^ , 




/' 



THE NEW YORK . 
POBUC LIBRARY 

hldsm voumoatioms 

Jl i09b JL 

mmmmmmmmmmmmi^mmammmm 



1 



••: • • V 



• • •• *•• 



• ••••• , 

► • • • • • 

• *•• • « •• 



ADVERTISEMENT. 



UJ 

i 

2S 



nn HE Publiflier of this fplendid Editioa 
of Robinson Crusoe has often ex- 
perienced the moft liberal encouragement for 
works which, being large, might feem ha- 
zardous for an individual ; but on no occa- 
fion has he been honoured and affifted by 
a Subfcription more adequate to the great- 
nefs of his expences, or more encouraging 
to the activity of his future endeavours. — * 
He begs leave to return his fincere thanks ; 
and he will only add, that his gratitude for 
fuch repeated favours will continue through 
life. 

Augtift 2oth^ i79o« 



Vol. I. 



THE 



PREFACE. 



T F ever the ftory of any private man's ad- 
. ventures in the world were worth making 
public, and were acceptable when publifhed, 
the Editor of this account thinks this will be 
fo. 

The wonders of this man's life exceeds all 
that (he thinks) is to be found extant ; the life 
of one man being fcarce capable of a greater 
variety. 

The ftory is told with modefty, with fe- 
rioufnefs, and with a religious application of 
events to the ufes to which wife men always 
apply them ; viz. to the inftruftion of others, 
by this example, and to juftify and honour 
the wifdom of Providence in all the variety 
of circumftances, let them happen^ how they 
will 

, ' - ^ The 



XU P R E F A C E. 

The Editor believes the thing to be a juft 
hiflory of fads ; neither is there any appearance 
of fidion in it : and however thinks, becaufe 
all fuch things ar^ difputed, that the improve- 
ment of it, as w^ell to the diverfion, as to the 
inftru£tion of the Reader, wrill be the fame ; 
and as fuch, he thinks, without farther com- 
pliment to the world, he does them a great 
fervice in the publication. 



DIRECTIONS 

FOR 

PLACING THE CUTS, 
mth the SUBJECT of the PLATES. 



P L ATE 



TITLE Page to Vol.1, with a beautiful Vignette, com- 
pofed of the Wreck of a Ship. 

SUBJECT OP PLATE 11. 

Frontispiece to Vol. I.-^Robinfon Crufoe taking leave 
of his Father and Mother. 

** My father was a wife and grave man ; gave me ferious and 
excellent counfel againfl what he forefaw was my defign. He 
called me one morning into his chamber, where he was confined by 
the gout, and expoilulated very warmly with me upon this fub- 
jea." Seepage 2. 

SUBJECT OF PLATE III. 

Robinfon Crufoe fliipwrecked, and clinging to a Rock. 
** I recovered a little before the return of the waves ; and fee- 
ing I fhould be cpvered again with the water, I refolved to hold 
faftby a piece of the rock." See page ^6* 

SUBJECT OF PLATE IV, 

Robinfon Crufoe upon his Raft, 

** Having plundered the (hip, of what was portable and fit to 
hand out, I began with the cables ; and cutting the great cable 
in pieces, fuchas I could move, I got two cables andahawfcron 
ihore, with all the iron-work I could get ; and having cut down 
the fprit-fail yard, and the mizen-yard, and every thing I could to 
make a large raft, I loaded it with all the heavy goods, and came 
away/' Seepage 69. 

A a SUBJECT 



PLATES. 
SUBJECT OF PLATE V. 

Robinfon Crufoe at work in his Cave. , / 

*< I made abundance of things even without tools, and fprne 
with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which perhaps 
were never made before, and that with infinite labour." See 
page 84. 

SUBJECT or PLATE VI. 

Robinfon Crufoe difcovers the Print of a Man's Foot. 

** I was exceedingly furprifed with the print of a man's naked 
foot on the fhore, which was very plain to be feen in the fand. I 
ftood like one thunderftruck, or as if I had feen an apparition ; 
I liftened, I looked round me, I could hear nothing, nor fee any 
thing." See. page \(^\, 

SUBJECT OF PLATE VII. 

Robinfon Crufoe firft fees and refcues his man Friday. 

** Having knocked this fellow down, the other who purfued 
him flopped, as if he had been frightened ; and I advanced apace 
towards him ; but, as I came nearer, I perceived prefently he had 
a bow and arrow, and was fitting it to fhoot at me ; fo I was 
then neceffitated to fhoot at him firft, which I did, and killed him 
at the firft fhot." See page 256. 

\ 

SUBJECT OF PLATE VIII. 

Robinfon Crufoe and Friday making a Boat. ^' 

** I fhewed him how to cut it out with tools, which, after I 
had fhewed him how to ufe, he did very readily ; and, in about a 
month's hard labour, we finifhed it, and made it very handfome." 
See page 287. 

SUBJECT OF PLATE IX. 

Robinfon Crufoe and Friday making a Tent to lodge Fri- 
day's Father and the Spaniard. 

" Friday and I carried them up both together between us ; 
but, when we got them to the outfide of our wall or fortification, 
we were at a worfe lofs than before, for it was impoflible to get 
them , over ; and I was refolved not to break it down, fo f fet 
to work again, and Friday and I, in about two hours time^ made 
a very handfome tent, covered with old fails, and above that, 
with boughs of trees." Seepage 304. 

A 3 VOL. 



PLATES. 
VOL IL 
F L A T E X, ^ 

Title to Vol. n. with a beautiful Vignette, compofed-of 
Robinfon Crufoe's Implements of Hufbandry. 

SUBJECT OF PLATE XI. 

FnoNTispiECE. — Robinlon Crufoe's firft Interview with ^ 
the Spaniards on his fecond Landing. 

" Firft he turned to me, and pointing to them, faid, Thefe, 
Sir, are feme of the gentlemen who owe their lives to you : and 
them turning to them, and pointing to me, he let them know who 
I w€s : upon which they all came up one by one, not as if they 
had been failors> and ordinary fellows, and I the like, but really 
as if they had been ambaffadors or noblemen, and I a monarch 
or a great conqueror." Seepage 4.2. 

SUBJECT OP PLATE XII. (^ p OS > . 

The Plantation of the two Englifhmen. 

*< The two men had innumerable young trees planted about 
their hut, that when you came to the place, nothing was to be 
feen but a wood ; and though they had their plantation twice de- 
molifhed, once by their own countrymen, and once by the enemy, 
as (hall be fhewn in its place ; yet they had reftored all again, and 
every thing was fiourifhmg and thriving about them." Seepage 90. 

SUBJECT OF PLATE XIIL 

The two Englifhmen retreating with their Wives and 
Children. 

** Now, having great reafon to believe that they were betrayed, 
the firft thing they did was to bind the flaves which were left, 
and caufe two of the three men, whom they brought with the 
women, who, it feeras, proved very faithful to them, to lead them 
with their two wives, and whatever they could carry away with 
them, to their retired place in the woods-" See page 96. 

SUBJECT oi- PLATE XlV. 

The Spaniards and Englifhmen burning the Indians' boats. 

" They went to work immediately with the boats ; and getting 
fome dry wood together from a dead tree, they tried to fet fomc 
of them on fire, but they were fo wet, that they would fcarce 
burn ; however, the fire fo burned the upper part, that it foon 
made them unfit for fwimming in the fea as boats." See page 113. 

SUBJECT 



PLATES. 

SUBJECT OF PLATE XV. 

Robinfon Crufoe diftributing Tools of Hufbandry among 
the Inhabitants 

** I brought them out all my (lore of tools, and gave every man 
a digging-fpade, a fhovel, and a rake, for we had^ no harrows or 
ploughs ; and to every feparate place a pick-axe, a crow, a broad- 
axe, andafaw." See page i^/^» 

SUBJECT OF PLATE XVL 

A View of the Plantation of the three Engliflimen. 

** Upon this he faced about juft before me, as he walked 
along, and putting me to a full nop, niade me a very low bow : 
I moft heartily thank God, and you. Sir, fays he, for giving mc 
fo evident a call to fo bleffed a work." See page i^i. 

PLATE XVn. 
Head of De Foe to face the Title of the LIFE. 



\t.CA,<. 



•5rWm^ 



LIST 



THE 

LI F E 

AND 

ADVENTURES 

O F 

ROBINSON CRUSOE, 



I WAS born in the year 1632, in the city o{ Tork, 
of a good family, though not of that country, 
my father being a foreigner of Breman^ who fettled 
firft at Hull: he got a good eftate by merchandize, 
and leaving off his trade, lived afterward at Torkj 
from whence he had married my mother, whofe 
relations were named Robin/on^ a very good faipily 
in that country, and from whom I was called Robin' 
fort Kreutzvaer ; but by the ufual corruption of words 
in England^ wfeare now called, nay we call ourfelves, 
and write our name Crufoe^ and fo my companions 
always called me. 

I had two elder brothers, one of which was lieu- 
tenant colonel to an EngUJh regiment of foot in 
Flanders J formerly commanded by the famous colo- 

VoL. I, ' B nel 



2 LIFE AND ADVENTURES^ 

nel Lockbart^ and was killed at the battle near Dim^ 
kirk againfl the Spaniards ; what became of my 
fecond brother I never knew, any more than my 
father or mother did know what was become of me- 

Being the third fon of the family, and not bred 
to any trade, my head began to be filled very early 
with rambling thoughts : my father, who was very 
ancient, had given me a competent fhare of learning, 
as far as houfe education, and a country free-fchool 
generally goes, and defigned me for the law ; but I 
would be fatisfied with nothing but going to fea, tod 
my inclination to this led me fo (Irongly againlt the 
will, nay the commands of my father, and againfl 
all the entreaties and perfuafions of my mother and 
other friends, that there feemed to be fomething fatal 
in that propenfion of nature tending ditedly to the 
life of mifery which was to befal me. 

My father, a wife and grave man, gave me feri- 
ous and excellent counfei againfl what he forcfaw 
was my defign. He called nie one morning into 
his chamber, where he was confined by the gout, 
and expoflulated very warmly with me upon this fub- 
jecl: he afked me what reafons more than a meer 
wandring inclination I had for leaving my father's, 
houfe and my native country, where I might be well 
introduced, and had a profpect of railing my fortune 
by application and induflry, with a life of eafe and- 
pleafure.. He told me it was for men of defperate 
fortunes on one hand, or of afpiring, fuperior for- 
tunes on the other, who went abroad upon adven- 
tures, to rife by enterprize, and make themfelvcj; 
famous in undertakings of a nature out of the com- 
mon road ; that thefe things were all either too far 

above 



t)F ROBINSON CRUSOfi. ^ 

ubove me, or too far below me ; that mine was the 
middle ftate, or what might be called the upper fta- 
tion of low life^ which he had found by long expe- 
rience was the beft ftate in the world, the moft 
fuited to human happinefs, not expofed to the mi^ 
feries and hardlhips, the labour and fufferings of the 
mechanick part of mankind, and not embarrafs'd with 
the pride, luxury, ambition and envy of the upper 
part of mankind. He told me, I might judge of 
the happinefs of this ftate, by this one thing, viz* 
That this was the ftate of life which all other people 
envied ; that kings have frequently lamented the 
miferable confequences of being born to great things, 
and wifh they had been placed in the middle of the 
two extremes, between the mean and the great ; 
that the wife man gave his teftimony to this as the 
juft ftandard of true felicity, when he prayed to have 
neither poverty or riches. 

He bid me obferve it, and I fhould always find, 
that the calamities of life were fhared among the 
upper and lower part of mankind; but that the middle 
ftation had the feweft difafters, and was not expofed 
to fo many viciffitudes as the higher or lower part 
-of mankind ; nay, they were not fubjefted to fo many 
diftempers and uneafmeffes either of body or mind, 
as thofe were, who by vicious living, luxury and ex- 
travagancies on one hand, or by hard labour, want 
of neceffaries, and mean or infufEcient diet on the 
other hand, bring diftempers upon themfelves by 
the natural confequences of theii* way of living; 
that the middle ftation of life was calculated for all 
kind of virtues and all kind of enjoyments j that 
B 2 peace 



4 LIFE Al^D ADVENTlTRES 

peace and plenty were the hand-maids of a middtd 
fortune; that temperance, moderation, quietnefs^ 
heahh, fociety, all agreeable diverfions, and all dev 
fireable pleafures, were the bleffings attending the 
middle ftation of life ; that this way men went filently 
and fmoothly through the world, and comfortably 
out of it, not embarraffed with the labours of the 
hands or of the head, not fold to the life of flavery 
for daily breads or harraflcd with perplexed circum-* 
ftances, which rob the foul of peaces ind the body 
* of reft ; not enraged with the paffion of envy, oi* 
fecret burning luft of ambition for great things ; but 
In eafy circumftances Hiding gently through the world, 
and fenlibly tafting the fweets of living, without the 
bitter, feeling that they are happy^ and learning by 
every day's experience to know it niore fe^fibly. 

After this, he preffed nie earneftly, and in the 
moft affeftionate manner, not to play the young 
man, not to precipitate myfelf into miferies which 
nature and the ftation of life I was born in feemed 
to have provided againft ; that I was under no ne- 
ceffity of feeking my bread ; that he would do well 
for me, and endeavour to enter me fairly Into the 
ftation of life which he had been juft recommending 
to me ; and that if I was not very eafy and happy in 
the world, it muft be my meer fate or fault that muft 
hinder it, and that he (hould have nothing to anfwer 
for, having thus difcharged his duty in warning me 
againft meafures which he knew would be to my 
hurt : in a wor^ that as he would do very kind 
things for me if I would ftay and fettle at home as he 
direded, fo he would not have fo much hand in my 
misfortunes, as to give me any encouragement to go 

away : 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. g 

iRvrzy : and to clofe all, he told me I had my elder 
brother for an example, to whom be had ufed the 
fame earneft perfuafions to keep him from going into 
the low country wars, but could not prevail, his 
young defires prompting him to run into the army, 
where he was killed ; and though he faid he would 
not ceafe to pray for me, yet he would venture to fay 
to me, that if I did take this foolifli ftep, God would 
not blefs me, and I would have leifure hereafter'to 
refleft upon having negleded his counfel when there 
anight be none to aflift in my recovery. 

I obferved in this laft part of his difcourfe, which 
was truly prophetick, though I fuppofe my father 
did not know it to be fo himfelf; I fay, I obferved 
the tears run down his face very plentifully, and ef- 
pecially when he fpoke of my brother who was killed j 
and that when he fpoke of my having leifure to 
repent, and jione to aiTift me, he was fo moved, that 
he broke off the difcourfe, and told me, his heart 
was fo full, he could faj no ipore to me. 

I was fmcerely ^ffedied with this difcourfe, as 
indeed who could be otherwife ? and I refolved not 
to think of going abroad any more, but to fettle 
at home according to my father's deftre. But alas ! 
a few days wore it all off; and in fliort, to prevent 
any of my father's farther iniportunities, in a few 
week5 after, I refolved to run quite away from hin>. 
However, *I did not aft fo h^ftily neither as my firfl; 
heat of refolution prompted, but I took niy mother, 
at a time whien I thought her a little pleafanter than 
ordinary, and told her, that my thoughts were fo 
iCntirely bent upon feeing the world, that I fhpuld 
pever fettle to any thing with refolution enough to go 

B 3 througli 



6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

through with it, and my father had better give me 
his confent than force me to go without it j that I 
was now eighteen years old, which was too late to 
go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an attorney ; 
that I was fure, if I did, I ftiould never ferve out my 
time, and I (hould certainly run away from my 
mafter before my time was out, and go to fea ; and 
if flie would fpeak to my father to let me go one 
voyage abroad, if I came home again and did not 
like it, I would go no more, and I would prqmife by 
a double diligence to recover that time I had loft. 

This put my mother into a great paffion : Ihe told 
me, Ihe knew it would be to no purpofe to fpeak to 
my father upon any fuch fubjeft, that he knew too 
well what was my intereft to give his confent to any 
fuch thing fo much for my hurt, and that fhe won- 
dered how I could think of any fuch thing after fuch 
a difcourfe as I had had with my father, and fuch 
kind and tender expreflions as fhe knew my father 
had ufed to me ; and that in fhort, if I would ruin 
myfelf, there was no help for me ; but I might de- 
pend I fhould never have their confent to it : that 
for her part fhe would not have fo much hand in my 
deftruftion ; and I fhould never have it to fay, that 
my mother was willing when my father was not. 

Though my mother refufed to move it to my 
father, yet, as I have heard afterwards, fhe reported 
all the difcourfe to him, and that my father, after 
fhewing a great concern at it, faid to her with a figh, 
*'That boy might be happy if he would ftay at home, 
but if he goes abroad, he will be the moft mifer- 
ableft wretch that was ever born j I can give no 
confent to it.'* 

It 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 7 

It was not till almoft a year after this that I broke 
loofe, though in the mean time I continued obftinate- 
ly deaf to all propofals of fettling to bufinefs, and 
frequently expoftulating with my father and mother, 
about their being fo pofitively determined againft 
what they knew my inclinations prompted me to. 
But being one day at Hull^ where I went cafually, 
and without any purpofe of making an elopement 
that time ; but I fay, being there, and one of my 
companions being going by fea to London^ in his fa- 
ther's fhip, and prompting me to go with them, with 
the common allurement of fea-faring men, viz. 
That it fhould coft me nothing for my paflage, I 
confulted neither father or mother any more, not fo 
much as fent them word of it; but leaving them to 
hear of it as they might, without alking God's blef- 
fing, or my father's, without any confideration of 
circumftances or confequences, and in an ill hour, 
God knows, .on xht fir& oi September 1651, I went 
on board a ihip bound for London ; never any young 
adventurer^s misfortunes, I believe, began fooner, or 
continued longer than mine. The fhip was no fooner 
gotten out of the Number^ but the wind began to 
blow, and the waves to rife in a moft frightful man- 
ner ; and as I had never been at fea before, I was 
moft inexpreffible fick in body, and terrify 'd in my 
mind : I began now ferioufly to refled upon what I 
had done, and how juftly I was overtaken by the 
judgment of heaven for my wicked leaving my father's 
houfe, and abandoning my duty; ail the good 
counfel of my parents, my father's tears and my mo- 
ther's entreaties came now frefh into my mind, and 
my confcience, which was not yet com^ to the pitch 

P 4 of 



S LIFE AND ADVENTURE!^ 

of hardnefs to which it has been fince, reproached 
me with the contempt of advice, and the breach of 
my duty to God^and my father. 

All this while the ftorm encreafed, and the fea, 
which I had never been upon before, went very high, 
though nothing like what I have feen many times 
fmce; no, nor like what I faw a few days after; 
but it was enough to affefl: me then, who was but 
a young failor, and had never known any thing of 

. the matter. I expefted every wave would have 
fwallowed us up, and that every time the fhip fell 
down, as I thought, in the trough or hollow of the 
fea, we fhould never rife more ; and in this agony of 
mind, I made many vows and refolutions, that if it 
would pleafe God here to fpare my life this one 
voyage, if ever I got once my foot upon dry land 
again, I would go direftly home to my father, and 
never fet it into a fliip again while I liv^d ; that I 
would take his advice, and never run myfelf into 
fuch miferies as thefe any mor^. Now I faw plainly 
the goodnefs of his obfervations about the middle 
ftation of life, how eafy, how comfortably he had 
lived all his days, and never had been expofed to 
tempefts at fea, or troubles on fhore ; and I refolved 
that I would, like a true repenting prodigal, go 
home to my father. 

Thefe wife and fober thoughts continued all the 
whil^ the ftorm continued, and indeed fome time 
after ; but the next day the wind was abated and 
the fea calmer, and I began to be a little inur'd to it: 
however I was very grave for all that day, being alfo 
a little fea-fick ftill ; but towards night the weather 
.qleared up, the wind was quite over, and a charm- 

ing 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 9 

ing fine evening followed-; the fun went down per- 
feftly clear, arid rofe fo the next morning; and 
having little or no wind, and a fmooth fea, the fun 
Ihining upon it, the fight was, as I thought, the 
mofl: delightful that ever I faw. 

I had flept well in the night, and was now no 
more fea-fick, but very chearful, looking vdth won- 
der upon the fea that was fo rough and terrible the 
day before, and could be fo calm and fo pleafant in 
fo little time after. And now, leaft my good refolu- 
tions ihould continue, my companion, who had in- 
deed enticed me away, combes to me, " Welly Bob,'* 
fays he, (clapping me upon the flioulder,) how do 
you do after it ? I warrant you were frighted^ wa^ifi 
yoUy lajl nighty when it blew hut a cap full of wind? A 
cap full do you call it ? faid I, // was a terrible Jiorm : 
Ajlorm^you fool you^ replies he, do you call that aflorin? 
'why it was nothing at all ; give us but a goodfhip and 
fea-rooniy and we think nothing of fuch afqual of wind 
as that ; but youWe but a frejh-water failor^ Bob ; come 
let us make a bowl of punch and weHl forget all that ; 
do you fee what charming weather it is now ? To make ' 
fhort this fad part of my ftory, we went the old way 
of all failors, the punch was made, and I was made, 
drunk with it, and in that one night's wickednefs I 
drowned all my repentance, all my refleftions upon 
my paft condud, and ail my refolutions for my 
future. In a word, as the fea was returned to its 
fmoothnefs of furface and fettled calmnefs by the 
abatement of that ftorm, fo the hurry of my thoughts 
being over, my fears and apprehenfions of being 
fwallowed up by the fea being forgotten, and the 
current of my former defires returned, I entirely for- 
got 



lO LIFE AND AP VENTURES 

got the VOWS and promifes that I made in my diftrefg. 
I found indeed fome intervals of refleftion, and the 
ferious thoughts did, as it were, endeavour ^o 
return again fometimes, but I fliook them off, and 
rouzed myfelf from them as it were from a diftemper, 
and applying myfelf to drinking and company, foon 
maftered the return of thofe fits, for fo I called them, 
and I had in five or fix days got as compleat a vie- 
tory over confcience as any young fellow that re* 
folved not to be troubled with it, could defire : But 
I was to have another trial for it ftill ; and Provi^ 
dence, as in fuch cafes generally it does, refolved to 
leave me entirely without excufe. For if I would 
not take this for a deliverance, the next was to be 
fuch a one as the word and moft hardened wretch 
among us would confefs both the danger and the 
mercy. 

The fixth day of our being at fea we came into 
Tarmouth Roads ; the wind having been contrary, 
and the weather calm, we had made but little way 
fince the ftorm. Here we were obliged to come to 
anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing con- 
trary, viz. at fouth-weft, for feven or eight days, 
during which time a great many fliips from New^ 
cajlle came into the fame roads, as the common har- 
bour where the fhips might wait for a wind for the 
river. 

We had not however rid here fo long, but fhould 
have tided it up the river, but that the wind blew 
too frefli ; and after we had lain four or five days, 
blew very hard. However, the roads being reckoned 
as good as a harbour, the anchorage good, and our 
ground-tackle very ftrong, our men were uncon- 
cerned, 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. It 

cerned, and not in the leaft apprehenfive of danger, 
but fpent the time in reft and mirth, after the 
manner of the fea; but the eighth day in the morning, 
the wind increafed, and we had all hands at work 
to ftrike our top-mafts, and make every thing fnug 
and clofe, that the Ihip might ride as eafy as poflible. 
By noon the fea went very high indeed, and our fhip 
rid forecaftle in^ fhipp'd feveral feas, and we thought 
once or twice our anchor had come home ; upon 
which our mafter ordered out the Iheet anchor ; fo 
that we rode with two anchors a-head, and the cables 
yered out to the better end. 

By this time it blew a terrible ftorm indeed, and 
now r began to fee terror and amazement in the 
faces even of the feamen themfelves. The mafter, 
though vigilant in the bufmefs of preferving theftiip, 
yet as he went in and out of his cabbin by me, I 
could hear him foftly to himfelf fay feveral times. 
Lord be merciful to us^ we JJoall be all lojij we Jhall be 
all undone ; and the like. During thefe firft hurries, 
I was ftupid, lying ftill in my cabbin, which was in the 
fteerage, and cannot defcribe my temper : I could ill 
re-affume the firft penitence which I had fo apparently 
trampled upon, and hardened myfelf againft: I 
|:hought the bittemefs of death had been paft, and 
that this would be nothing to like the firft. But 
when the mafter himfelf came by me, as I faid juft 
now, and faid we fhould be all loft, I was dreadfully 
frighted : I got up out of my cabbin, and looked 
out ; but fuch a difnial fight I never faw : the fea 
went mountains high, and broke upon us every three 
' or four minutes : when I could look about, Icould 
fee nothing but diftrefs round us : two ftiips that rid 

near 



12 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

near us, we found, had cut their mafts by the 
board, being deep loaden ; and our men cryed out, 
that a Ihip which rid about a mile a-head of us was 
foundered. Two more Ihips being driven from their 
anchors, were run out of the roads to fea, at all 
adventures, and that with not a maft ftanding. The 
light fhips fared .the beft, as not fo much labouring 
in the fea; but two or three of them drove, and 
came clofc by us, running away with only their fprit- 
fail out before the wind. 

' Towards evening the mate and boatfwain begged 
the mafter of our fhip to let them cut away the fore- 
maft, which he was very unwiUing to : but the boat- 
fwain protefting to him, that if he did not, the fhip 
would founder, he confented; and when they had 
cut away the fore-maft, the main-maft ftood fo loofe, 
and fliook tlie fhip fo much, they were obliged to 
cut her away alfo, and make a clear deck. 

Any one may judge what a condition I muft be in 
at all this, who was but a young failor, and^who had 
been in fuch a fright before at but a little. But if I 
can exprefs at this dillance the thoughts I had about 
ijie at that time, I was in tenfold more horror of 
mind upon account of my former convictions, and 
the having returned from them to the refolutions I 
had wickedly taken at firft, than I was at death it. 
felf ; and thefe, added to the terror of the ftorm, 
put me in fuch a condition, that I can by no words 
defcribe it. But the worft was not come yet, the 
ftorm continued with fuch fury, that the feamen 
themfelves acknowledged they had never known ^, 
worfe. We had a good fliip, but fhe was deep Ipaden, 
and wallowed in the fea, that the feameii every now 

mi 



OP RoBmsoH cutjsoi:- 13 

and then cried out, flie would founder. It Was my 
advantage in one refped, that I did not know what 
they meant by founder, till I enquired. However^ 
the ftorm was fo violent, that I faw what is not often 
feen, the raafter, the boat-fwain, and fome others 
more fenfible than the reft, at their prayers, and ex- 
peOing every moment when the (hip would go to the 
t)Ottom;. In the middle of the night, and under all 
the reft of our diftrefles, one of the men that had 
been down on purpofe to fee, cried out we had fprung 
aleak ; another faid there was four foot water in the 
hold. Then all hands were called to the pump. At 
that very word my heart, as I thought, died within 
me, and I fell backwards upon the fide of my bed 
where I fat, into the cabbin. However, the men 
rouzed me, and told me, that I that was able to do 
nothing before, was as well able to pump as another; 
at which I ftirred up, and went to the pump and 
worked very heartily. While this was doing, the 
mafter feeing fome light colliers, who not able to 
ride out the ftorm, were obliged to flip and run away 
to fea, and would come near us, ordered to fire a 
gun as a (ignal of diftrefs. I who knew nothing what 
that meant, was fo furprized, that I thought the fliip 
had broke, or fome dreadful thing happened. In a 
word, I was fo furprized, that I fell down in a fwoon. 
As this was a time when -every body had his own life 
to think of, no body minded me, or what was be- 
come of me ; but another man ftept up to the pump, 
and thrufting me afide with his foot, let me lye, 
thinking I had been dead j and it was a great while 
before I came to myfelf. 

We 



14 ^IF2 A>TD ADVENTUkES 

We worked on, but the water encreafing in the 
hold, it was apparent that the fhip would founder, 
and though the ftorm began to abate a little, yet as 
it was not pofllble (he could fwim till we might run 
into a port, fo the mafter continued firing guns for 
help ; and a light fhip who had rid it out juft a^head 
of us, ventured a boat out to help us. It was with 
the utmoft hazard the boat came near us, but it was 
impoflible for us to get on board, or for the boat to 
lie near the fhip fide, till at lafl the men rowing very 
heartily, and venturing their lives to fave ours, our 
men caft them a rope over the ftern with a buoy to 
it, and then vered it out a great length, which they 
after great labour and hazard took hold of, and we 
haul'd them clofe under our ftern and got all into 
their boat. It was to no purpofe for them or us after 
v/e v/ere in the boat to think of reaching to their own 
Ihip, fo all agreed to let her drive, and only to pull 
her in towards fhore as much as we could, and 
our mafler promifed them, that if the boat was 
(laved upon fhore he would make it good to their 
mafter, fo partly rowing and partly driving, our boat 
went away to the norward, floaping towards the fhore 
almoft as 'far as Winterion-Nefs. 

We were not much more than a quarter of an 
hour out of our fhip but we faw her fink, and then 
I underftood for the firft time what was, meant by a 
fhip foundering in the fea ; I muft acknowledge I had 
hardly eyes to look up when the feamen told me 
(lie was (inking ; for from that moment they rather 
put me into the boat than that I might be faid to go 
in, my heart was as it were dead within me, partly 

with 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. I5 

vnth fright, partly with horror of mind, and the 
thoughts of what was yet before me. 

While we were in this condition, the men yet 
labouring at the oar to bring the boat near the Ihore, 
we could fee, when our boat mounting the waves we 
were able to fee the fhore, a great many people 
tunning along the Ihore to aflift us when we fhould 
come near, but we made but flow way towards the 
fhore, nor were we able to reach the fliore, 
till being paft the light-houfe at Winterton^ the 
fliore falls off to the weftward towards Cromer^ and 
fo the land broke off a little the violence of the wind : 
here we got in, and, though not without much dif- 
ficulty, got all fafe on fliore, and walked afterwards 
on foot to Tarmouth^ where, as unfortunate men, we 
were ufed with great humanity, as well by the ma- 
gift:rates of the town, who afligned us good quarters^ 
as by particular merchants and owners of fliips, and 
had money given us fufiicient to carry us either to 
London or back to Hull^ as we thought fit. 

Had I now had the fenfe to have gone back to 
Hully and have gone home^ I had been happy, and 
my father, an emblem of our blefled Saviour's 
parable, had even killed the fatted calf for ^ me ; for 
hearing the fliip I went away in was caft away in 
Tarmouth Road, it was a great while before he had 
any aflurance that I was not drowned. 

But my ill fate puflied me on now with an obfti- 
nacy that nothing could refifl: ; and though I had 
feveral times loud calls from my reafon and my more 
compofed judgment to go home, yet I had no power 
to do it. I know not what to call this, nor will I 
urge, that it is a fecret over-ruling decree that hur- 
ries us on to be the inftruments of our own defl:ruc- 



1 6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

tion, even though it be before us, and that we pulh 
upon it with our eyes open. Certainly nothing but 
fonie fuch decreed unavoidable mifery attending, and 
which it was impoffible for me to efcape, could have 
pufhed me forward againft the calm reafonings and 
perfuafions of my moft retired thoughts, and againft 
two fuch vifible inftruftions as I had met with in my 
firll attempt* 

My comrade, who had helped to harden me be- 
fore, and who was the mafter's fon, was now lefs 
forward than I ; the firft time he fpoke to me after 
we were at Tarmouth^ which was not till two or 
three days, for we were feparated in the town to 
feveral quarters : I fay, the firft time he faw me, it 
appeared his tone was altered, and looking very me- 
lancholy, and fliaking his head, alked me how I did, 
and telling his father who I was, and how I had 
come this voyage only for a trial, in order to go 
farther abroad ; his father turning to me with a very 
grave and concerned tone, young man^ fays he, you 
ought never to go Jo fea any more^ you ought to take 
this for a plain and vifible token that you are not to be a 
feafaring man. Why, Sir, faid I, will you go to fea 
no more? That is another cafe^ faid he, // is my 
callings and therefore niy duty ; btit as you made this 
voyage for a trials you fee what a tafie heaven has given 
you of what you are to exped if you perftft ; perhaps this 
is all befallen us on your account ^ like Jonah in the fhip of 
Tarfhifti. Pray^ continues he, what are you? and 
on what account did you go to fea ? Upon that I told 
him fome of my ftory ; at the end of which he burft 
out with a ftrange kind of pafTion ; Vi/hat had I done, 
fays he, that fach an unhappy wretch fhould come 



OF ROBWSON CRUS02. ijr 

Into my fliip ; I would not fet my foot in the fame 
ihip with thee again for a thoufand pounds. This 
indeed was, as I faid, an excurfion of his fpirits, 
which were yet agitated by the fenfe of his lofs^ and 
was farther than he could have authority to go* 
However he afterwards talked very gravely to me, 
exhorted me to go back to my father, and not tempt 
Providence to my ruin ; told me I might fee a vifible 
hand of heaven againft me, and young many faid he, 
depend upon it^ if you do not go back, wherever you 
go J you will meet with nothing but difajlers and difap-- 
f ointments^ till your father* s words are fulfilled upon you. 
We parted foon after ; for I made him little an- 
fwer, and I faw him no more ; which way he went, 
I know not. As. for me, having fome money in 
my pocket, I travelled to London by land; and there, 
as well as on the road, had many ftruggles with my- 
felf, what courfe of life I Ihould take,- and whether 
I fhould go home, or go to fea. 

As to going home, fliame oppofed the beft mo- 

- tions that offered to my thoughts ; and it im- 
mediately occurred to me how I fhould be laughed 
at among the neighbours, and fhould be afnamed to 
fee, not my father and mother only, but even every 
body elfe j from whence L have fmce often obferved, 
how incongruous and irrational the common tem- 
per of mankind is, efpecially of youth, to that reafon 
which ought to guide them in fuch cafes, -y/zs. that 
they are not afhamed to fin, and yet are afhamed to 
repent; nor afhamed of the adion for which they 
ought juflly to be efleeniied fools, but are afhamed of 
the returning, which only can make them be eftcemed 
wife men* 

. Vol.. I. g In 



iJ LIFE Al^D ADVeKTUR£S 

In this ftalc of life however I remained fome tinli?, 
uncertain what meafiires to take, and what courfe of 
life to iead. An irrefiftible relufkance continued to 
going home ; and as I ftayed a while, the remem- 
brance of the diftrefs I had been in wore oflf ; and 
as that abated, the little motion I had in my defirea 
to a return wore off with it, till at laft I quite laid 
afide the thoughts of it, and looked out for a vovage. 

That evil influence which carried me firft away 
from tiiy father*s houfe, that hurried me into the wild 
and indigefted notion of raifmg my fortune ; and 
that impreft thofe conceits fo forcibly upon me, as 
to make me deaf to all good advice, and to the 
entreaties and even the command of tny father : I fay, 
the fame influence, whatever it was, prefented the 
moft unfortunate of all enterprizes to my view ; and 
I went on board a veflel bound tothe coaft o^ Africa i 
or as our failors vulgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea. 

It was my great misfortune that in all thefe adven- 
tures I did not fhip myfelf as a failor ; whereby, 
though I might indeed have worked a little harder 
than ordinary, yet at the fame time I had learned the 
4uty and office of a fore-maft man ; and in time might 
have qualified myfelf for a mate or lieutenant, if not 
for a mafter. But as it was always my fate to choofe 
for the worfe, fo I did here ; for having money in 
my pockety and good cloaths upon my back, I would 
always go on board in the habit of a gentleman ; and 
fo I neither had any bufmefs in the ihip, or learned 
to do any. 

It was my lot firft of all to fall into pretty good 
company in London^ which does not always happeu 
to fuch loofe and unaided young fellows as I then 

was 5 



was ; the devil generally not omitting to lay fome 
fnare for them very early : but it was not fo with njie, 
1 firft fell acquainted with the mafter of a fhip who 
had been on the coaft of Guinea ; and who having had 
very good fuccefs there, was refolved to go again ; 
and who taking a fancy to my converfation, which 
was not at all difagreeble At that time, hearing me 
fay I had a mind to fee the world, told me if I would 
go the voyage with him I fliould be at no expence j I 
fhould be his mefs-mate and his companion, and if I 
could carry any thing with me, I fliould have all the 
advantage of it that the trade would admit j and 
perhaps I might meet vdth fome encouragement. 

I embraced the offer, and entering into a ftriO: 
friendihip with this captain, who was an honefl and 
plain-dealing man, I went the voyage with him, and 
carried a fmall adventure with me, which by the dif- 
interefted honefty of my friend the captain, I in- 
creafed v^ry coufiderably ; for I carried about 40 L 
in fuch toys and trifles as the captain direfted me to 
buy. This 40 /. I had muttered together by the aflift- 
ance of fome of my relations whom I correfponded 
with, and who, I believe, got my father, or at lead 
my mother, to contribute fo much as that to my firft 
adventure. 

This was the only voyage which I may fay was 
fuccefsful in all my adventures, and which I owe to 
the integrity and honefty of my friqnd the captain^ 
under whom alfo I got a competent knowledge of the 
mathematicks and the rules of navigation, learned 
how to keep an account of the fiiip's courfe, take an 
obfervation, and, in fliort, to underftand fome things 
that were needful to be underftood by a failor : far, 

C a a^ 



iO LltE Allb ADVEl4tURfS 

as he took delight to inftruft me, I took delight to 
learn ; and, in a word, this voyage made me both 
a failor and a merchant: for I brought home 5 pound 
9 ounces of gold duft for my adventure, whichyielded 
me in London at my return, almoft 300/. and this 
filled me with thofe afpiring thoughts which have 
fince fo compleated my ruin. 

Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes too ; 
particularly, that I was continually fick, being thrown 
into a violent calenture by the exceffive heat of the 
climate ; our principal trading being upon the coaft^ 
from the latitude of 15 degrees north even to the 
line itfelf. 

I was nov/ fet up for a Guinea trader ; and my 
friend, to my great misfortune, dying foon after his 
arrival, I refolved to go the fame voyage again, and 
I embarked in the fame veffel with one who was his 
mate in the former voyage, and had now got the 
command of the fliip* This was the r.nhappieft 
voyage that ever man made; for though I did not 
carry quite 100 /. of my new gjuned wealth, fo that I 
had 200 left, and which I lodged with my friend's 
widow, who was very juft to me, yet I fell into terri- 
ble misfortunes in this voyage ; and the firfl was 
this, viz. Our {hip making her courfe towards the 
Canary Iflands, or rather between thofe iflands and 
the African fhore, was furprized in the grey of the 
morning, by a Turkijh rover of Saliee, who gave 
chafe to us with all the fail ihe could make. We 
crowded alfo as much canvafs as our yards would 
fpread, or our mafts carry, to have got clear ; but find- 
ing the pirate gained upon us, and would certxmly 
come up with us in a few hours, we prepared to fight; 

our 



OF ROSINSON CRUSOE* 2X 

our fhip having 12 guns, and the rogue 18. About 
three in the afterjioon he came up with us, and 
bringing too by mjftake juft athwart our quarter, 
inftead of athwart our ftern, as he intended, we 
brought 8 of our guns to bear on that fide, and 
poured in a broad-fide upon him, which made him 
iheer off again, after returning our fire, and pouring 
in alfohis fraall Ihot from near 200 men which he 
had on board. However, we had pot a man touched, 
all our men keeping clofe. He prepared to attack 
us again, and we to defend ourfelves ; but laying us 
pn board the next time upon our other quarter, he 
entered 60 men upon our decks, who immediately 
fell to cutting and hacking the decks and rigging. 
We plyed them with fmall-ihot, half-pikes, powder- 
chefts, and fuch like, and cleared our deck of them 
twice. However, to cut fliort this melancholy part 
of our fliory, our lliip being difabled, and three of 
our men killed, and eight Ayounded, we v/ere obliged 
to yield, and \vere carried all prifoners into Sallee, a 
port belonging to the Moors. 

The ufage I had there was not fo dreadful as at firfl 
I apprehended, nor was I carried up the country to 
the emperor's court, as the reft of our men were, but 
was kept by the captain of the rover, as his proper 
prize, and made his Have, being young and nimble, 
and fit for his bufinefs. At thi^ furprizing change of 
my circumftances, from a merchant to a miferable 
flave, I was perfeSly overwhelmed ; and now I 
looked back upon my father's prophetic difcourfe to 
me, that I fliould be miferable, and have none to 
;-elieve me, which I thought was jiow fo effeftually 
J)rought Jo pafs, that I could not be worfe ; that now 

C 3 the 



ii . LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

the hand of heaven had overtaken me, and I was unw 
done without redemption. But alas ! this was but a 
talle of the mifcry I was to go through, as will appear 
in the feqiiel of this (lory. 

As my new patron or mafter had taken me home 
to his houfe, fo I was in hopes that he would take 
me with him when he went to fea again, believing 
that it v^puld fome time or other be his fate to be 
taken by a Spanijh or Portugal man of war ; and that 
then I fhould be fet at liberty. But this hope of 
mine was fpon taken away ; for when he went to fea, 
he left me on fhore to look after his little garden, 
and do the common drudgery of Haves about his 
houfe; and when he came home again from his 
cruife, he ordered me to lye in the cabbin to look 
'after the fhip. 

Here I meditated nothing but my efcape ; and 
what method I might take to effect it, but found no 
way that had the lead probability in it : nothing pre- 
fented to make the fuppofition of it rational ; for I 
had no bpdy to communicate it to, that would em- 
bark with me, no fellow-flave, no EngUftoman^ Irijh^ 
marty or Scot/man there but myfelf ; fo that for two 
years, though I often pleafed myfelf with the imagi- 
nation, yet I never had the leaft . encouraging prof- 
peft of putting it in praftice. 

After about two years an odd circumftance pre-r 
fented itfelf, which put the old thought of marking 
fome attempt for my liberty again in my head : my 
patron lying at home longer than ufual, without fit- 
ting out his fhip, which, as I heard, was for want 
•of money, he ufed conftantly, once or twio3 a week, 
fometimes oftener, if the weather was fair., to take 

the 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. .?3 

the fhip's pinnace, and go out into the road a fiflung; 
and as he al^^ays took me and a young Marefco with 
him to row the boat, we made him very merry, and 
I proved very dexterous in catching fifli ; infomvich 
that fometimes he would fend me with a Moor^ one of 
his kinfmen, and the youth the Marefco as they called 
him, to catch a difli of fifh for him. 

It happened one time, that going a fifhing in a 
ftark calm morning, a fog rofe fo thick, that though 
we were not half a league from the Ihore we loft fight 
of it ; and rowing we knev/ not whither or which 
way, we laboured all day, and all the next night, 
and when the morning came we found we had pulled 
off to fea inftead of pulling in for the fhore ; and 
that we were at leaft two leagues from the fhore ? 
however we got well in again, though with a gresit 
deal of labour, and fome danger ; for the wind began 
to blow pretty frefh in the morning ; but particularly 
we were all very hungry. 

But our patron, warned by this difafter, refolvedto 
take more care of himfelf for the future ; and having 
lying by him the long-boat of pur Englijh ftip he had 
taken, he refolved he would not go a fifhing any 
more without a compafs and fome pro vifion ; fo he 
ordered the carpenter of his ifhip, who alfo was an 
En^lijh flave, to build a little (late-room or cabbin in 
the middle of the long-boat, like that of a barge, with . 
a place to (land behind it to fleer and hale hom§ the 
pfiain.(heet ; and room before for a hand or two to 
Hand and work the fails ; (he failed with that we call 
^ fhoulder of mutton fail ; and the boom gibed over 
the top of the <:abbin, which lay very fhug and \qw^ 

C 4 . and 



24 ^^^^ AND ADVENTURES 

and had in it room for him to lye, with a flave or 
two, and a table to eat on, with fome fmall lockers 
to put in fome bottles of fuch liquor as he thought fit 
to drink ; particularly his bread, rice and coflFee. 

We went frequently out with this boat a fifliing, 
and as I was moft dextrous to catch fiih for him, he 
never went without me : It happened that he had 
appointed to gQ out in this boat, either for pleafure 
or for fifli, with two or three Moors of fome diftinc- 
tion in that place, and fur whom he had provided 
extraordinarily ; and had therefore fent on board the 
boat over night a larger ftore of provifions than 
ordinary ; and had ordered me to get ready three 
fuzees with powder and fliot, which were on boar4 
his fhip ; for that they defigned fome fport of fowling 
as well as fiftiing. 

I got ;ill things ready as he had directed, and 
waited the next morning with the boat wafhed clean, 
her antlent and pendants out, and every thing to ac- 
commodate his guefts ; when by and by rny patron 
came on board alone, and told me bis guefts had put 
off going, upon fome bufinefs that fell out, and 
ordered me with the man and boy, as ufual, to go 
out with the boat and catch them fome fifli, for that 
his friends were to fup at his houfe 5 and commanded 
that as foon as I got fome fifli I ftiould bring it home 
to his houfe ; all which I prepared to cjo. 

This moment my former notions of deliverance 

darted into my thoughts, for now I found I was like 

to have a little fliip at my command ; and my mafter 

being gone, I prepared to furnifli myfelf, not for fifl^- 

i ing bufinefs, but for^ voyage j though I knew not, 

neither 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 25 

neither did I fo much as confider, whither I fliould 
fleer ; for any where to get out of that place was 
my way. 

My firft contrivance was to make a pretence to 
fpeak to this Moor^ to get fomething for our fubfift- 
ance on board ; for I told him we muft not prefume 
to eat of our patron's bread ; he faid, that was true ; 
fo he brought a large baiket of rufk or biiket of their 
kind, and three jarrs with frefli water into the boat ; 
I knew where my patron's cafe of bottles flood, which 
it was evident by the make were taken oul: of fome 
Englijh prize ; and I conveyed them into the boat 
while the Moor was on fliore, as if they had been 
there before for our mafter : I conveyed alfo a great 
lump of bees-wax into the boat, which weighed above 
half a hundred weight, with a parcel of twine or 
thread, a hatchet, a faw, and a hammer, all which 
were of great ufe to us afterwards j efpecially the w?.x 
to make candles. Another trick I tryed upon him, 
which he innocently came into alfo; his name was 
Ifmael^ who they call Midy^ or Moley ; fo I called to 
him, Moley ^ faid I, our patron's guns are on board 
the boat, can you not get a little poyv^der and fliot, it 
may be v/e may kill fome Alcamles (a fowl like our 
Ctdieus) for ourfelves, for I know he keeps the gun- 
ner's (lores in the (hip ? Yes, fays he, I'll bring lome, 
and accordingly he brought a great leather pouch 
which held about a pound and a half of powder, or 
rather more ; and another with fhot, that had five or 
fix pounds, with fome bullets, and put all into the 
boat : at the fame time I had found fome powder of 
>ny mailer's in the great cabbin, with v/hich I filled 

one 



26 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

one of the large bottles in the cafe, which was almoft 
empty ; pouring what was in it into another : and 
thus furnifhed with every thing needful, we failed out 
of the port to lifh: the caftle which is at the entrance 
of the port knew who we were, and took no notice 
of us ; and we were not above a mile out of the port 
before we haled in our fail, and fet us down to fifli : 
the wind blew frora the N, NE. which was contrary 
to my defire ; for had it blown foutherly I had been 
fure to have made the coaft of Spain^ and at lead 
reached to the bay of Cadi% ; but my resolutions were, 
blow which way it would, I would be gone from 
tiiat horrid place where I was, and leave the reft: 
to fate. 

After we had fiflied fome time and catched nothing, 
for when I had fifh on my hook I would not pull 
them up, that he might not fee them; T faid to the 
Moor^ this will not do, our mafter will not be thus 
ferved, we muft ftand farther oiF: he thinking no 
harm agreed, and being in the head of the boat fet 
the fails ; and as I had the helm I run the boat out 
near a league farther, and then brought her too as if 
I would filli, when giving the boy the helm, I ftept 
forward to where the A^Ioor was, and making as if I 
ftoopt for fomething behind him, I took him by fur- 
prize with my arm under his twift, and toft him clear 
pverrboard into the fea ; he rofe immediately, for he 
fwam like a cork, and called to me, begged to be 
taken in, told me he would go all over the world with 
me ; he fwam fo ftrong after th^ boat that he would 
have reached' me very quickly, there being but little 
v/ind ; upon which I ftept into the cabbin, and fetch-? 
ing one of the fowling-pieces, I prefented \t at him, 

^u4 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. %J 

and told him, I had done him no hurt, and if he 
v/ould be quiet I would do him none : but, faid I, you 
fwim well enough to reach to the Ihore, and the fea is 
calm, make the beft of your way to fhore, and I will 
do you no harm, but if you come near the boat Til 
flioot you through the head ; for I am refolved to 
have my liberty ; fo he turned himfelf about and 
fwam for the Ihore, and I make no doubt but he 
reached it wich eafe, for he was an excellent 
fwimmer. 

I could have been content to have taken this Moor 
with me, and have drowned the boy, but there was 
no venturing to truft him: when he was gone 
I turned to the boy, who they called Xury^ 
and faid to him, Xnry^ if you will be faithful to 
me rU make you a great man, but if you will 
not ftroke your face to be true to me, that is, 
fwear by Mahomet and his father's beard, I mull 
throw you into the fea too ; the boy fmiled in my 
face, and fpoke fo innocently that I could not mif- 
truft him; and fwore to be faithful to me, and go all 
over the world with me. 

While I was in view of the Moor that was fwim- 
ming, I flood out direftly to fea with the boat, rather 
ftretching to windward, that they might think me 
gone towards the Straits mouth (as indeed any one 
that had been in their wits mud have been fuppofed 
to do) for who would have fuppofed we were failed 
on to the fouthward to the truly Barbarian coaft, 
where whole nations of negroes were fure to fur- 
round us with the canoes, and deftroy us; where 
^e could never once go on Ihore but we fliould be 

devoured 



28 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

devoured by favage beafts, or more mercilefs favagcf 
of human kind. 

But as foon as it grew dulk in the evening, I 
changed my courfe, and ftecred direftly fouth and 
by eaft, bending my courfe a little toward the eaft, 
that I Plight keep in with the (hore ; and having a 
fair frefh gale of wind, and a fmooth quiet fea, I 
made fuch fail that I believe by the next day at three 
o'clock in the afternoon, when 1 firft made the land, 
I could not be lefs than 1 50 miles fouth of Sallee; 
quite beyond the emperor cf Morcco^s dominions, or 
indeed of any other king thereabouts, for we fav/ no 
people^ 

Yet fuch was the fright I had taken at the Moors^ 
and the dreadful apprehenfions I had of f;illing into 
their hands, that I would not flop, or go on fhore, op 
come to an anchor ; the wind continuing fair, 'till I 
had failed in that manner five days : and then the 
wind fhifting to the fouthward, I concluded alfo that 
if any of our veffels were in chace of me, they alfo 
would now give over ; fo I ventured to make to the 
coaft, and come to an anchor in the mouth of a little 
river, I knew not what, or where ; neither what lati- 
tude, what country, what nation, or what river : I 
neither faw, or defired to fee any people, the prin- 
cipal thing I wanted was frefh water. We came in- 
to this creek in the evening, refolving to fwim on 
fhore as foon as it was dark, and difcdver the country; 
but as foon as it was quite dark, we heard fuch 
dreadful noifes of the barking, roaring, and howling 
of wild creatures of we knew not what kinds, that the 
poor boy was ready to die with fear, and begged of 
me not to go on fhore till day ; w^U Xury^ faid I, 

then 



of ROBINSON CRUSOE* 29 

then I won't, but it may be we may fee men by day, 
who will be as bad to us as thofe lions ; then we givi 
them the Jhoot guriy fays Xury, laughing, make them 
run wey ; fuch Englijh Xury fpoke by converfing 
among us flaves. However I was glad to fee the boy 
fo chearful, and I gave him a dram (out of our pa- 
tron's cafe ofbottles) to chear him up: after all, Xury^s 
advice was good, and I took it, we dropped our 
little anchor and lay ftill all night ; I fay ftill, for we 
fleptnone; for in two or three hours we faw vaft 
great creatures (we knew not what to call them) 
of many forts, come down to the fea-fhore and run 
into the water, wallowing and wafhing themfelves 
for the pleafure of cooling themfelves ; and they 
made fuch hideous bowlings and yellings, that I 
never indeed heard the like, 

Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed fo was 
i too ; but we were both more frighted when we 
heard one of thefe mighty creatures comefwimming 
towards our boat; we could not fqe him, but v/e 
might hear him by his blowing to be a monftrous 
huge and furious beaft ; Xury hid it was a lion, and 
it might be fo for ought I know ; but poor Xury cried 
to me to weigh the anchor and row away ; no, fays I, 
Xuryj we can flip our cable with the buoy to it and 
go off to fea, they cannot follow us far ; I had no 
fooner faid fo, but I perceived the creature (whatever 
it was) within two oars length, which fomething fur- 
prized me; however I immediately ftept to the cab- 
bin-door, and taking up my gun fired at him, upon 
which he immediately turned about, and fwani 
towards the Ihore again. ^ j 

; But 



30 LlfE ANt) ADVENTURES 

But It IS impoffible to defcribe the horrible noifeSi 
and hideous cries and bowlings, that were raifed^ 
as well upon the edge of the fhore, as higher within 
the country, upon the noife or report of the gun, a 
thing I have fome reafon to believe thofe creatures 
had never heard before; this convinced me that 
there was no going on (hore for us in the night upon 
that coaft, and how to venture on fhore in the day 
was another queftion too ; for to have fallen into the 
hands of any of the favages, had been as bad as to 
have fallen into the hands of lions and tygers ; at 
leaft we were equall v apprehenfive of the danger of it. 

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on 
Ihore fomewhere or ether for water, for we had not 
a pint left in the boat ; when or where to get to it 
was the point : Xury faid, if I would let him go on 
(hore with one of the ja.rrs, he would find if there 
was any water and bring fome to me. I aflced him 
why he would go ? why I ihould not go and he ftay 
in the boat ; the boy anfw<;red with fo much affeftion 
that made me love him ever after. Says he. If wild 
piam come^ they sat me^ you go wey. Well, Xuryj 
faid I, we will both go, and if the wild mans come, 
we will kill them, they fhall eat neither of us ; fo I 
gave Xury a piece of rufk- bread to eat,, and a dram 
out of our patron's cafe of bottles which I mentioned 
before ; and we haled the boat in as near the flipre 
as we thought was proper, and waded on fliore ; car- 
rying nothing but our arms, and two jarrs for water^ 

I did. not care to go out of fight of the boat, fear- 
ing the? coming of canoes with Savages down the 
1 iver : but the b6y feeing a low place about a mile 
up the coujitry, rambled to it j and by and by I faw 

him 



OF ROBIKSON CRUSOE. 3I 

him come rumiing towards me. I thought he ^^vas 
purfued bf fome favage, or frighted with fome \t ild 
beaft, and I run forward towards him to help hi m> 
but when I came nearer to him, I faw fomethi'ng 
hanging over his Ihoulders, which was a creature that 
he had fhot, like a hare, but diflerent in colour, s.nd 
longer legs, however we were very glad of it, and it 
was very good meat ; but the great joy that poor 
Xury came with, was to tell me he had found gc:'od 
water, and feen no wild mans. 

But we found afterwards that we need not take 
fuch pains for water, for a little higher up the creek 
where we were, we found the water frefli when the 
tide was out, which flows but a little way up ; fo 
we filled our jarrs and feafted on the hare we had 
killed, and prepared to go on our way, having feen 
ao foot-fteps of any human creature in that part of 
^ the country* 

As I had been one voyage to this coaft before, I 
knew very well that the iflands of the Canaries ^ and 
the Cape de Verd iflands alfo, lay not far off from (he 
coaft. But as I had no inftruments to take an ob* 
fervation to know what latitude we were in, and not 
cxaftly know, or at leaft to remember what latitude 
they were in, I knew not where to look for them, or 
when to ftand off to fea towards them ; otherwife I 
might now eafily have found fome of thefe iflands. 
But my hope was, that if I ftood along this^coaft till 
I came to jthat part where the Englijh traced, I fliould 
find fome of their v.eflels upon their ufual defign of 
trade, that would relieve and take us in. 

By the beft of my calculation, that place where 
I now was, muft^ be that country, which lying be- 
tween 



32 I.IFE AND ADVENTtJREf 

tween the emperor of Morocco^ dominions and thtf 
Negroes J lies wafte, and uninhabited, except by wild 
hearts } the Negroes having abandoned it, and gone 
farther fouth for fear of the Moors ; and the Moori 
not thinking it worth inhabiting, by reafon of its 
barrennefs ; and indeed both forfaking it becanfe of 
the prodigious numbers of tygers, lions, leopards^ 
and other furious creatures which harbour there • 
fo that the Moors ufe it for their hunting only, where 
they go like an arn^y, two or three thoufand men at 
a time ; and indeed for near an hundred miles to. 
gether upon this coaft, we faw nothing but a wafte 
uninhabited country by day; and heard nothing but 
howlings and roaring of wild heart: by night. 

Once or twice in the day time I thought I faw 
the Pico of Tenerijfe^ being the high top of the 
mountain Teneriffe in the Canaries; and had a great 
> mind to venture out in hopes of reaching thither ^ 
but having tried twice, I was forced in again by con- 
trary winds, the fea alfo going too high for my little 
vcrtel, fo I refolved to purfue my firft defign and keep 
along the fliore. 

Several times I was obliged to land for frefli water, 
after we had left this place ; and once in particular, 
being early in the morning, we came to an anchor 
under a litjtle point of land which was pretty high> 
and the tide beginning to flow, we lay ftill to go 
farther in ; Xury^ whofe eyes were more about him 
than it feems mine were, calls foftly to me, and tells 
me that we had beft go farther oflF the ftiore ; for, 
fays he, look yonder lies a dreadful monfter on the 
(ide of that hillock fart afleep : I looked where he 
pointed, and faw a dreadful monfter indeed, for it 

was 



OF ROBINSON CRtJSOE. 33 

Xvas a terrible great Hon that lay on the fide of the 
fliore, under the fiiade of a piece of the hill that hung 
as it were a little over him. Xury^ fays I, you (hall 
go on fhore and kill him ; Xury looked frighted, and 
faid. Me kill ! he eat me at one mouth ; one mouthful 
he meant ; however, I faid no more to the boy, but 
bad him lie ftill, and I took our biggeft gun, which 
was almoft mufket-bore, and loaded it with a good 
charge of powder, and with two flugs, and laid it 
down ; then I loaded another gun with two bullets 
and the third, for we had three pieces, I loaded with 
five fmaller bullets. I took the beft aim I could 
with the firft piece to have fhot him into the head, 
but he lay fo with his leg raifed a little above his 
nofe, that the flugs hit his leg about the knee, and 
broke the bone. He darted up growling at firft, but 
finding his leg broke fell down again, and then got 
up upon three legs, and gave the moft hideous roar 
that ever I heard ; I was a little furprifed that I had 
not hit him on the head ; however, I took up the fe- 
cond piece immediately, and, though he began to 
move off, fired again, and fhot him into the head, 
and had the pleafijre to fee him drop, and make but 
little noife, but lay ftruggling for life. Then Xury 
took heart, and would have me let him go on fhore : 
Well, go, faid I ; fo the boy jumped into the water, 
and taking a little gun in one hand, fwam to fliore 
with the other hand, and coming clofe to the 
creature, put the muzzel of the piece to his ear, 
and Ihot him into the head again, which difpatched 
him quite. 

This was game indeed to us, but this was no food ; 
and I was very forry to loofe three charges of powder 

Vol. I. D and 



34 JLIFE AND ADVENTURES 

and (hot upon a creature that was good for nothing to 
us. However, Xury faid he would 'lavcfome of him; 
fo he comes on board, and afked me to give him the 
hatchet. For ivhat^ Xury ? faid I. Mc cut off his beady 
faid he. However, Xury could not cut off his head, 
but he cut off a foot, and brought it with him, and 
it was a monflrous great one. 

I bethought myfelf however, that perhaps the 
fkin of him might one way or other beof fome value 
to us ; and I refolved to take off his fkin if I could. 
So Xury and I went to work with him ; but Xury 
was much the better workman at it, for I knew very 
ill how to do it. Indeed it took us up both the whole 
day, but at lafl we got off the hfde of him, and fpread- 
ing it on the top of our cabin, the fun effeftually 
dried it in two days time, and it afterwards ferved me 
to lie upon* 

After this ftop, we made on to the fouthward con- 
tinually for ten or twelve days, living very fparing 
on our provifions, which began to abate very much,, 
and going no oftner into the fhore than we were 
obliged to for frefli water j my defign in this was, ta 
make the river Gambia or Senegal ^ that is to fay,, 
any where about the Cape de Verd^ where I was in 
hopes to meet with fome European fliip ; and if I did 
not, I knew not what courfe I had to take, but to 
feek for the IJlands^ or perifli there among the Ne-^ 
groes. I knew that alLthe fliips from Europe^ which, 
failed either to the coaft of Guinea or to Brafil^ or to 
the Eaji Indies^ made this Cape^ or thofe IJlands ; and 
in a word, I put the whole of my fortune upon this 
fingle point, either that I muff meet with fome Ihip,^ 
or muft perifh* 

When 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ^^ 

When I had purfued this refolution about ten days 
longer, as I have fald, I began to fee that the land 
was inhabited ; and in two or three places, as we 
failed by, we faw people ftand upon the Ihore to look 
at us ; we could alfo perceive they were quite blacky 
and ftark naked. I was once inclined to have gone 
on fliore to them ; but Xury was my better counfel- 
lor, and faid to me, No go, no go ; however, I hauled 
in nearer the fliore that Lmight talk to them, and I 
found they run along the fliore by me a good way ; 
I obferved they had jio weapons in their hands, ex- 
cept one, who had a long flender fl:ick, which Xury 
faid was a lance, and that they would throw them a 
great way with good aim ; fo I kept at a diftance 
but talked with them by figns as well as I could ; and 
particularly made ligns for fomething to eat ; they 
beckoned to me to flop my boat, and they would 
fetch me fome meat ; upon this I lowered the top of 
my fail, and layby, and two of them ran up into the 
country, and in lefs than half an hour came back, 
and brought with them two pieces of dry flefli and 
fome corn, fuch as is the produce of their country ; 
but we neither knew what the one nor the other was ; 
however, we were willing to accept it, but how to 
come at it was our next difpute, for I was not for 
venturing on fliore to them, and they were as much 
afraid of us; but they took a fafe way for us all, for 
they brought it to the fliore arid laid it down, and 
went and fliood a great way off till we fetched it on 
board, and then came clofe to us again. 

We made figns of thanks to them, for we had 
nothing to make them amends ; but an opportunity 
offered that very infl;ant to oblige them wonderfully ; 

J) 2, for 



2^ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

for \^hilc v:e were lying by the fhore, came Vxo 
Tn!;:,!i^y crc.itures, one purfuing the other (as we 
took it) with great fury, from the mountains towards 
the fca ; whether it was the male purfuing the fe- 
male, or V. hether they were in fport or in rage, we 
could not tell, any more than we could tcU whether 
it was ufual or ftrange, but I believe it was the lattery 
bccaufe, in the firft place, thofc ravenous creatures 
fcldoin appear but in the night ; and in the fecond 
place, we found the people terribly frighted, efpe- 
cially the women. The man that had the lance or 
dart did not fly from them, but the reft did ; how- 
ever, as the two creatures ran directly into the water, 
they did not feem to offer to fall upon any of the 
Negroes, but plunged themfelves into the fea and 
fwam about as if they had come for their diverfion^ 
At laft one of them began to come nearer our boat 
than at firft I expefted, but I lay ready for him, for 
I had loaded my gun with all poflibie expedition, 
and bad Xury load both the others ; as foon as he 
Ccune fairly v;ithin my reach, I fired, and fliot him 
directly into the head 5 immediately he funk down 
into the water, but rofe inftantly and plunged up and 
down as if he was ftruggling for life ; and fo indeed 
he was ; he immediately made to the fliore, but 
between the wound, which was his mortal hurt, and 
the ftrangling of the water, he died juft before he 
reached the ftiore. 

It is impojlible to exprefs the aftonllhment of 
thefe poor creatures at the nolfe and the fire of my 
gun ; foinc of them were even ready to die for fear, 
and fell down as dead with the very terror. But 
when they faw the creature dead, and funk in the 

v/ater, 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 37 

^ater, and that I made figns to them to come to the 
fliore, they took heart and came to the fhore, and 
began to fearch for the creature. I found him by 
his blood ftaining the water, and by the help of a 
rope, which I flung round him, and gave the Negroes 
to haul, they dragged him on fhore, and found that 
it was a mod -curious leopard, fpotted and fine to an 
admirable degree, and the Negroes held up their 
hands with admiration to think what it was I had 
killed him with. 

The other creature, frighted with the flafh of fire 
and the noife of the gun, fwam on fhore, and ran up 
directly to the mountains from whence they came, 
nor could I at that diftance know what it was. I 
found quickly the Negroes were for eating the flefli 
of this creature, fo I was willing to have them take 
it as a favour from me, which when I made figns to 
them that they might take him, they were very 
thankful for ; immediately they fell to work with 
him, and though they had no knife, yet with a 
fharpened piece of wood they took off his flvin as 
readily, and much more readily, than we could have 
done with a knife ; they offered me fome of the flefh, 
which I declined, making as if I would give It them, 
but made figns for the fkin, which they gave me 
very freely, and brought me a great deal more of 
their provifion, which though I did not undcrftand, 
yet I accepted ; then I made figns to them for fome 
w^ater, and held out one of my jars to them, 
turning it,bottom upward, to fhew that it was empty, 
and that I wanted to have it filled. They called 
immediately to fome of their friends, and there came 
two women and brought a great velfel made of 

D 3 earth, 



38 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

earth, and burnt, as I fuppofe, in the fun ; this 
they fet down for me, as before, and I fent Xur-j 
on fhore with my jars, and filled them all three. 
The women were as ftark naked as the men. 

I was now furnifhed with roots and corn, fuch as 
it was, and water ; and, leaving my friendly Negroesy 
I made forward for about eleven days more, without 
offering to go near the fhore, till I faw the land run 
out a great length into the fea, at about the diflance 
of four or five leagues before me ; and, the fea being 
very calm, I kept a large ofling to make this point ; 
at ^ength, doubling the point at about two leagues 
from the land, I faw plainly land on the other fide 
to feaward ; then I concluded, as it was moil certain 
indeed, that this was the Cape de Verdy and thofe 
the i/!a7ids, called from thence Cape de Vcrd IJlands. 
However, they were at a great diflance, and I could 
not well tell what I had befl to do, for if I fhould 
be taken with a frefh of wind I might neither reach 
one nor the other. 

In this dilemma, as I was very penfive, I ftept into 
the cabin and fat me down, Xury having the helm, 
. when on a fudden the boy cried out, Mafccr^ majler 
a Jhip with a fail ! and the foolifh boy was frighted 
out of his wits, thinking it muft needs be fome of his 
mafler^s fhips fent to purfue us, when I knew we 
were gotten far enough out of their reach. I jumped 
out of the cabin, and immediately faw not only the 
fhip, but what fhe was, (^viz.J that it was a 
Portuguefe fhip, and, as I thought, was bound to the 
coafl oi, Guinea for Negroes. But when I obferved 
the courfe fhe fleered, I was foon convinced they 
were bound fome other way, and did not defign to 

come 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 39 

come any nearer to the fhore ; upon which I ftretched 
out to fea as much as I could, refolving to fpeak with 
them if poffible. 

With ail the fail I could make, I found I fhould 
nOc be able to come in their way, but that they would 
be gone by before I could make any fignal to them ; 
but after I had crowded to the utmoft, and began to 
defpair, they, it feems, faw me by the help of their 
perfpeftive-glafTes, and that it was fome European 
boat, which, as they fuppofed, mufl belong to fome 
fhip that was loft, fo they (hortened fail to let me 
come up. I was encouraged with this, and as I had 
my patron's ancient on board, I made a waft of it to 
them for a fignal of diftrefs, and iired a gun, both 
which they faw, for they told me they faw the 
fmoke, though they did not hear the gun; upon - 
thefe fignals they very kindly brought- to, and 
lay-by for me, and in about three hours time I came 
up with them. 

They afi^ed m.e what I was, in Portuguefe^ and in 
Spanijh^ and in French ; but I underftood none of 
them; but at laft a Scots failor, who was on board) 
called to me, and I anfwered him, and told him I 
was an Englijhman^ that I had made my efcape out 
of flavery from the Moors at Sallee. Then they bad 
me come on board, and very kindly took me in, 
and all my goods. 

It was an inexpreffible joy to me, that anyone would 
believe that I was thus delivered, as I efteemed it, 
from fuch a miferable and almoft hopelefs condition 
as I was in, and immediately offered all I had to the 
captain of the fhip, as a return for my deliverance; 
but he generoufly told me, he would take nothing 

D 4 from 



40 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

from me, but that all I had fhould be delivered fafe 
to me when I came to the Braftls ; for^ fays he, / 
have faved your life on no other terms than I would be 
glad to be faved myfelf ; and it may one time or other be 
my lot to be taken up in the fame condition ; befides, faid 
he, when I carry you to the Brafils, fo great a way 
from your own country^ if I fhould take from you what 
you have^ you will be fiarved there ^ and then I only 
take away that life I have given. No^ no^ Setgnor 
Inglefe, fays he, Mr. Engllfhman, / will carry you 
thither in charity^ and thofe things will help you to buy 
yo,urfubfifience there ^ and your paffage home again. 

As he was charitable in his propofal, fo he was 
juft in the performance to a tittle, for he ordered the 
feamen, that none fhould offer to touch any thing I 
had ; then he took every thing into his own poflef- 
fion, and gave me back an exaO: inventory of them, 
that I might have them ; even fo much as my three 
earthen jars. 

As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that he 
faw, and told me he would buy it of me for the fhip's 
ufe, and afked me what I would have for it ? I told 
. him, he had been fo generous to me in every thing, 
that I could not offer to make any price of the boat, 
but left it entirely to him ; upon which he told me he 
would give me a note of his hand to pay me 80 pieces 
of eight for it at Brafil ; and when it came there, if 
# any one oftered to give more, he would make it up ; 
he offered me alfo 60 pieces of eight more for my 
boy Xury^ which I was loath to take, not that I was 
not willing to let the captain have him, but I was 
very loath to fell the popr boy'^ liberty, who had 
afiifled mefo faithfully inprocuiing my own. How- 
ever, 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 4I 

ever, when I let him know my reafon, he owned it to 
be juft, and offered me this medium, that he would 
give the boy an obUgation to fet him free in ten years, 
if he turned Chriflian ; upon this, and Xury faying he 
was Willing to go to him, I let the captain have him. 

We had a very good voyage to the Brajils^ and 
arrived in the Bay de Todos los Samos^ or All-SainU" 
Bay, in about twenty-two days after. And now I 
was once more delivered from the mofl: miferable of 
all conditions of life, and what to do next with myfelf 
I was nov/ to confider. 

The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can 
never enough remember ; he would take nothing of 
me for my paifage, gave me twenty ducats for the 
leopard's fkin, and forty for the lion's fldn which I 
had in my boat, and caufed every thing I had in the 
fhlp to be punflually delivered me; and what I was 
willing to fell he bought, fuch as the cafe of bottles, 
two of my guns, and a piece of the lump of bees-wax, 
for I had made candles of the reft ; in a word, i 
made about 220 pieces of eight of all my cargo, and 
with this ftock I went on fhore in the Bra/ds, 

I had not been long here, but being recommended 
to the houfe of a good honeft man like himfelf, who 
had an Ingcino as they call it ; that is, a plantation 
and a fugar-houfe, I lived with him fome time, and 
acquainted myfelf by that means with the manner of 
their planting and making of fugar ; and feeing how 
' well the planters lived, and how they grew rich 
fuddenly, I refolved, if I could get llcenfe to 
fettle there, I wouM turn planter among them, 
refolving in the mean time to find out fome way 
to get my money^ which I had left in London^ 

remitted 



42 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

remitted to me. ' To this purpofe, getting a kind of a 
letter of naturalization, I piirchafed as much land 
that was uncurcd as my money would re:ich, and 
formed a plan for my plantation and fettlement, and 
fuch a one as might be fuitable to the fliock which I 
propofed to myfelf to receive from England. 

I had a neighbour, a Portugiieze of Lijhon^ but 
born of Englijh parents, whofe name was V/elis^ and 
in much fuch circumftances as I was. I call him 
neighbour, becaufe his plantation lay next to mine, 
and we went on very fociable together* My flock 
•was but low, as well as his : and we rather planted 
for food, than any thing elfe, for about two years. 
Hov/ever, we began to increafe, and our land began 
to come into order ; fo that the third year we planted 
fome tobacco, and made each of us a large piece of 
ground ready for plarxting canes in the year to come ; 
but we both wanted help ; and now I found, more 
than before, I had done wrong in parting with my 
boy Xury. 

But alas ! for me to do wrong, that never did 
right, was no great wonder : I had no remedy but to 
go on; I was gotten into aii employment quite 
remote to my genius, and direclly contrary to the life 
I delighted in, and for which I forfook my father's 
houfe, and broke through all his good advice ; nay, 
I was coming into the very middle ftation, or upper 
degree of lov/ life, which m^y father advifed me to 
before ; and which if I refolved to go on with, I 
might as well have ftaid at home, and never have 
fatigued myfelf in the world as I had done ; and I 
ufed often to fay to myfelf, I Qould have done this as 
well in England among my friends, as have gone 

5000 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 43 

5000 miles off to do it, among ftrangers and favages 
in a wildernefs, and at fuch diftance, as never to hear 
from any part of the world that had the lead know- 
ledge of me. 

In this manner I ufed to look upon my condition 
with the utmofl regret. I had nobody to converfe 
with, but now and then this neighbour ; no work 
to be done, but by the labour of my hands ; and I 
ufed to fay, I lived juft like a man caft away upon 
fome defolrle ifland, that had nobody there but 
himfelf. But how juil: has it been, and hov/ fhould 
all men lefied, that, when they compare their pre- 
fent conditions with others that are worfe, heaven 
may oblige them to make the exchange, and be 
convinced of their former felicity, by their experi- 
ence : I fay, how juft has it been, that the truly foli- 
tary life I reflefted on in an ifland of mere defolation 
fliould be my lot, v/ho had fo often unjuftly compared 
it with the life which I then led, in which had I 
continued, I had in all probability been exceeding 
profperous and rich. 

I was in fome degree fettled in my meafures for car- 
rying on the plantation^ before my kind friend the 
captain of the fliip, that took me up at fea, went 
back ; for the fliip remained tHere, in providing his 
loading, and preparing for his voyage, near three 
months ; when, telling him what little ftock I had left 
behind me in LondoTi^ he gave me this friendly and 
fmcere advice : Seignor Inglefe, fays he, for fo he 
always called me, if you will give me letters, and a 
procuration here in form to me, with orders to the 
perfon who has your money in Londoji^ to fend your 
effects to Lifuon^ to fuch perfons as I fhall direft, and 

in 



44 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

in fuch goods as are proper for this country, I -uill 
bring you the produce of them, God willing, at my 
return ; but fmce human alfairs are all fubject to* 
changes and dirafccrs, I would have you give orders 
but for one hundred pounJsy?<;r//;;^, which you fay is 
half your flock, and let the hazard be run for the 
firfl: ; fo that if it come fafe, you may order the reft 
the fame way ; and if it mifcany, you may have the 
other half to have recourfc to for your fupply. 

This was fo wholefoine advice, and looked fo 
friendlv, that I could not but be convinced it was the 
beft courfe I could take ; fo I accordinp;ly prepared 
letters to the gentlewoman with whom I had left my 
money, and a procuration to the Pcrtu^uefe captain, 
as he defired. 

I v/rote the Englijh captain's v/id'.w a full account 
of all my adventures, my flavery, efcape, and how 
I had met with the P^r/iJ^^^r// captain at fea, the huma- 
nity of his behaviour, and v/hat condition I was 
now in, with all other neceflary direftions for my 
fupply ; and when this honeih captain came to Lljboiiy 
lie found means, by fome of the EngUjlo merchanis 
there, to fend over, not the order only, but a full 
account of my ftory, to a merchant at London^ who 
reprefented it effedually to her ; whereupon, fhe not 
only delivered the money, but out of her own pocket 
fent the Portugal captain a very handfome prefent for 
his humanity and charity to me. 

The merchant in London veiling this hundred 
pounds in EngliJJy goods, fuch as the captain had 
writ for, fent them direSly to him at Lijhoji^ and he 
brought them all fafe to me to the Brafils^ among 
which, v/ithout my direcliou (for I v/as too young 



OF RCBINSON CRUSOE. 45 

in mybufinefs to think of them), he had taken care 
to have all fort of tools, iron-work, and utenfils 
neceffary for my plantation, and which were of great 
ufe to me. 

When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune 
made, for I was furprifed with joy of, it ; and my 
good fteward the captain had laid out the five pounds 
which, my friend had fent him for a prefent for him- 
felf, to purchafe, and bring me over a fervant under 
bond for fix years fervice, and would not accept of 
any confideration, except a little tobacco, which I 
would have him accept, being of my own produce. 

Neither was this all ; but my goods being all 
Englijh manufafturcs, fuch as cloth, ftufFs, baize, 
and things particularly valuable and defirable in the 
counrry, I found means to fell them to a very great 
advantage ; fo that I may fay, I had more than four 
times the value of my firft cargo, and was now infi- 
nitely beyond my poor neighbour, I mean in the 
advancement of my plantation ; for the firft thing I 
did, I bought me a Negro flave, and an European 
fervant alfo ; I mean another befides that which the 
captain brought me from Lijhon. 

But as abufed profperity is oftentimes made the 
very means of our greateft adverfity, fo was it with 
me. I went on the next ye^r with great fuccefs in my 
plantation: I raifed fifty great rolls of tobacco on 
my own ground, more than I had difpofed of for ne- 
ceflTaries among my' neighbours ; and thefe fifty 
rolls, being each of above i oo wi. were well cured 
and laid by againft the return of the fleet from Lijbon: 
And now, increafing in bufinefs and in v/ealth, my 
head began to be full of projeds and undertakings 

bevond 



46 LIFE AND ADVENTURED 

beyond my reach ; fuch as are indeed often the ruin 
of the bed heads in bu^inefs. 

Had I continued in the ftation I was now in, I had 
room for all the happy things to have yet befallen 
me, for which my father fo earneflly recommended a 
quiet retired life, and of which he had fo fenfibly 
defcribed the middle ftation of Hfe to be full ; but 
other things attended me, and I was ftill to be the 
wilful agent of all my own mifcries ; and particularly 
to increafe my fault, and double the refleftions upon 
myfelf, which in my future forrows I fliould have 
leifure to make ; all thefe mifcarriages were procured 
by my apparent obftinate adhering to my foolifh in- 
clination of wandering abroad, and purfuing that 
inclination, in contradiction to tlie cleareft views of 
doing myfelf good in a fair and plain purfuit of thofe 
profpeds and thofe meafures of life, which nature 
and providence concurred to prefent me with, and to 
make my duty. 

As I had done thus in my brealdng away from my 
parents, fo I could not be content now, but I mufl 
go and leave the happy view I had of being a rich 
and thriving man in my new plantation, only to purfue 
a rafh and immoderate defire of rifing fafter than the 
nature of the thing admitted ; and ttius I caft myfelf. 
down again into the deepeft gulph of human mifery 
that ever man fell into, or perhaps could be confif- 
tent v/ith life and a ftate of health in the world. 

To comethenby the juft degrees to the particulars 
of this part of my ftory ; you may fuppofe, that hav- 
ing now lived aimed four year§ in the Braftls, and 
beginning to thrive and profper very well upon my 
plantation, I had not only learned the language, but 

had 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 47 

had contraded acquaintance and friendlhip among 
my fellow-planters, as well as among the merchants 
at St. Sah adore ^ which was our port ; and that in 
my difcourfe among them, I had frequently given 
them an account of my two voyages to the coaft of 
Guinea^ the manner of trading with the Negroes there, 
and how eafy it was to purchafe upon the coaft, for 
trifles, fuch as beads, toys, knives, fciffars, hatchets, 
bits of glafs, and the like, not only gold duft, 
Guinea grains, elephants teeth, Iffc. but Negroes for 
the fervice of the Braftls^ in great numbers. 

They liftened always very attentively to my dif- 
courfes on thefe heads, but efpecially to that part 
which related to the buying Negroes^ which was a 
trade at that time not only not far entered into^ 
but as far as it was, had been carried on by the 
Afliento^s, or permifFion of the kings of Spain and 
Portugal^ and engrofled in the public, fo that few 
Negroes were brought, and thofe exceffive dear* 

It happened, being in company v^ith fome mer- 
chants and planters of my acquaintance, and talking 
of thofe things very earneftly, three of them. came to 
me the next morning, and told me they had been 
mufing very much upon what I had difcourfed with 
them of, the laft night, and th^y came to make a 
fecret propofal to me; and after enjoining mefecrecy, 
they told me, that they had a mind to fit out a fliip 
to go to Guinea ; that they had all plantations as well 
as I, and were ftraitened for nothing fo much as fer- 
vants ; that as it was a trade could not be carried 0*1, 
becaufe they could not publickly fell the Negroes when 
they came home, fo they defired to make but one 
voyage, to faring the Negroes on fhore privately, and 

divide 



48 LIFE AND ADVENTURflSJ 

divide them among their own plantations ; and in a 
word, the queftion was, whether I would go their 
fuper-cargo in the fliip, to manage the trading part 
upon the coaft of Guinea ? and they offered me that 
I Ihould have my equal fhare of the Negroes^ without 
providing any part of the ftock. 

This was a fair propofal, it mufl be confeffed, had 
it been made to any one that had not had a fettle- 
nient and plantation of his own to look after, which 
was in a fair way of coming to be very confiderable, 
and with a good ftock upon it. But for me, that was 
thus entered and eftablilhed, and had nothing to do 
but go on as I had begun, for three or four years more, 
and to have fent for the other hundred pounds from 
England^ and who in that time, and with that little 
addition, could fcarce have failed of being w^orth 
three or four thoufand pounds fterling, and that cn- 
creafing too ; for me to think of fuch a voyage, was 
the mod prepofterous thing that ever man in fuch 
circumftances could be guilty of. 

But I, that was born to be my own defti:oyer, could 
no more refifl the offer, than I could reflrain my firft 
rambling defigns, when my father's good counfel 
was loft upon me. In a word, I told them I would 
go with all my heart, if they would undertake to look 
after my plantation in my abfence, and would dif- 
pofe of it to fuch as I fliould dired: if I mifcarried. 
This they all engaged to do, and entered into writ- 
ings or covenants to do fo ; and I made a formal will, 
difpofing of my plantation and effefts, in cafe of my 
death, making the captain of the Ihip that had faved 
my life as before, my univerfal heir, but obliging 
him to difpofe of my eftefts as I had direded in my 

will. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 49 

■Will, one half of the produce being to himfelf, and 
the other to be fhipped to England. 

In fhort, I took all poffible caution to preferve my 
eiffeas, and keep up my plantation ; had I ufed half 
as much prudence to have looked into my own 
intereft, and have made a judgment of what I ought 
to have done, and not to have done, I had certainly 
never gone away from fo profperous an undertaking, 
leaving all the probable views of a thriving circum- 
ftance, and gone upon a voyage to fea, attended 
with all its common hazards ; to fay nothing of the 
reafons I had to exped particular misfortunes to 
myfelf. 

But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the 
dilates of my fancy rather than my reafon : and 
accordingly the Ihip being fitted out, and the cargo 
furnifhed, and all things done as by agreement by 
my partners in the voyage, I went on board in an evil 
hour, the th of , being the fame day 

eight years that I went from my father and mother at 
H«//, in order to aft the rebel to their authority, and 
the fool to my own intereft. 

Our fhip was about 120 tun burthen, carried 6 
guns, and 14 men, befides the mafter, his boy, and 
inyfelf ; we had on board no large cargo of goods, 
except of fuch toys as were fit for our trade with the 
negroes, fuch as beads, bits of glafs, fhells, and odd 
trifles, efpecially little looking-glafles, knives, 
fciflfars, hatchets, and the like. 

The fame day I went on board we fet fail, 
(landing away to the northward upon our own coaft, 
with defign to ftretch over for the African coaft, 
when they came about ip or X2 degrees of northern 

Vol. I. . E latitude. 



50 LIFE AND ADVENTURED 

latitude, which it feems was the manner of their 
courfe in thofe days. We had very good weather, 
only exceflive hot, all the way upon our own coaft,. 
till we came the height of Cape St. Aiigiijlino^ from 
whence keeping farther off at fea we loft fight of 
land, and fteered as if we were bound for the ifle 
Fcrnand de Noronha^ holding our courfe N. E. by iV, 
and leaving thofe ifles on the eaft ; in this courfe we 
paft the line in about 1 2 days time, and were by our 
laft obfervation in 7 degrees 22 min. northern 
latitude, when a violent tournado or hurricane took 
us quite out of our knowledge ; it began from the 
fouth-eart, came about to the north-weft,, and then 
fettled into the north-eaft, from whence it blew in 
fuch a terrible manner, that for 1 2 days together 
we couLl do nothing but drive ; and fcudding away 
before it, let it carry us whither ever fate and the 
fury of the winds direfted ^ and during thefe 12 
days, I need not fay that I expefted every day to 
be fwallowed up, nor indeed did any ^in the fhip 
expefl: to fave their lives. 

In this diftrefs, we had, befides the terror of the 
ftorm, one of our men died of the calenture, and 
one man and the boy waflied over-board ; about the 
1 2th day the weather abating a little, the mafter 
made an obfervation as well as he couldy and found 
that he was in about 11 degrees north latitude, but 
that he was 22 degrees of longitude difference weft 
from Cape St. Augujlino ; fo that he found he was 
gotten upon the coaft of Guinea^ or the 'north part of 
Brafil^ beyond the river Anio%ones^ toward that of 
the river Oronoqtce^ commonly called the Great Rivery 
and began to confult with me what courfe he Ihould 

take^ 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 5it 

i 

take, for the fliip was leaky and very much 
difabled, and he was going direftly back to the 
coafl of Brajil. 

I was pofitively againfl: that, and looking over the 
charts of the fea-coafts of America with him, we 
concluded there was no inhabited country for us to 
have lecourfe to, till we came within the circle of the 
Caribbee-ijlands^ and therefore refolved to ftand 
away for Barbadoes^ which by keeping off at fea, td 
avoid the indraft of the bay or gulph of Mexico^ we 
might eafily perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen 
days fail ; whereas we could not poflibly make our' 
voyage to the coafl: of Africa without fome affifl:ance, 
both to our fhip and to ourfelves. 

With this defign we changed our courfe, and 
fleered away iV". W. by W. in order to reach fome of 
our Englijh iflands, where I hoped for relief ; but 
our voyage, was otherwife determined ; for being in 
the latitude of 1 2 deg. 1 8 min. a fecond fl:orm came 
upon us, which carried us away with the fame 
impetuofity wefl:ward, and drove us fo out of the 
very way of all human commerce, that had all our 
lives been faved, as to the fea, we were rather in 
danger of being devoured by favages than ever 
returning to our own country. 

In this difl:refs, the wind fl:ill blowing very hard^ 
one of our men early in ,the morning cried out. 
Land! and we had no fooner run out of the cabin 
to look out in hopes of feeing whereabouts in the 
world we were, but the fhip flruck upon a fand, 
and in a moment, her motion being fo flopped, the fea 
broke over her in fuch a manner, that we expefted 
we fhould all have perifhed immediately, and we 

E 2 wfere 



5^ LirE AND ADVENTURES 

were immediately driven into our clofe quarters 
to (belter lis from the very foam and fprye of 
the fea. 

It is not eafy for any one, who has not been in 
the like condition, to defcribe or conceive the 
confternation of men in fuch circumftances ; we 
knew nothing where we were, or upon what land it 
was we were driven, whether an ifland or the main, 
whether inhabited or not inhabited ; and as the 
rage of the wind was ftill great, though rather lefs 
than at firft, we could not fo much as hope to have 
the {hip hold many minutes without breaking in 
pieces, unlefs the winds by a kind of miracle (hould 
turn immediately about. In a word, ^^e fat looking 
one upon another, and expedling death every moment, 
and every man afting accordingly^ as preparing for 
another world, for there was little or nothing more 
for us to do in this ; that which was our prefent 
comfort, and all the comfort we had, was, that 
contrary to our expectation the fhip did not break 
yet, and that the mafter faid the wind began to 
abate. 

Now though we thought that the wind did a little 
abate, yet the fhip having thus ftruck upon the fand, 
and flicking too fafl for us to expeft her getting oflF^ 
we were in a dreadful condition indeed, and had 
nothing to do but to think of faving our lives as well 
as we could ; we had a boat at our flern, jufl before 
the florm, but fhe was firfl flaved by dafhing againft 
the fhip's rudder, and in the next place fhe broke 
away, and either funk or was driven off to fea, fo 
there was no hope from her ; we had another boat 
on board, but how to get her off into the fea was a 

doubtful 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 53 

doubtful thing; however, there was no room to 
debate, for we fancied the fliip would break in pieces 
every minute, and fome told us flie was Equally 
broken already. 

In this diftrefs, the mate of our veflel lays hold of 
the boat, and with the help of the reft of the men, 
they got her flung over the fliip's-fide, and getting 
all into her, let go, and committed ourfelves being 
eleven in number, to God^s mercy, and the wild 
fea ; for though the ftorm was abated confiderablyj 
yet the fea went dreadful high upon the fhore, and 
might well be called, den wild zee^ as the Dutch call 
the fea in a ftorm. 

And now our cafe was very difmal indeed ; for 
we all faw plainly, that the fea went fo high, that 
the boat could not live, and that we Ihoiild be 
inevitably drowned. As to making fail, we had 
none, nor, if we had, could we have done any thing 
with it ; fo we worked at the oar towards th^ land, 
though with heavy hearts, like men going to 
execution; for we ajl knew, that when the boat 
came nearer the fhore, flie would be daflied in a 
thoufand pieces by the breach of the fea, However, 
we committed our ibuls to God in the moft earneft 
manner, and the wind driving us towards jthe fliore, 
we haftened our deftruftion with our own hands, 
pulling as well as we could foAvards land. 

What the fliore was, whether rock or fand, 
-whether fteep or flioal, we knew not ; the only 
hope that could rationally give us the leaft fliadow 
of expeftation, was, if we might happen into fome 
bay or gulph, or the mouth of fome river, where 
by great chance we might have run our boat in, or 

E 3 • got 



54 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

got under the lee of the land, and perhaps made 
fmooth water. But there was nothing of this 
appeared; but as we made nearer and nearer the 
Ihore, the land looked more frightful thai^ the fea. 

After we had rowed, or rather driven about a 
league and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, 
mountain-like, came rolling a-ftern of us, and 
plainly bad us expeO: the coup-de-grace. In a word, 
it took us with fuch a fury, that it overfet the boat 
ilt once ; and feparating us as well from the boat, 
as from one other, gave us not time hardly to 
fay, O God ! for we were all fwallowed up in a 
moment. 

Nothing can defcribe the confufion of thought 
which I felt when I funk into the water ; for though 
I fwam very well, yet I could not deliver myfelf from 
the waves fo as to draw breath, till that wave having 
driven me, or rather carried me a vaft way on towards 
the fhore, and having fpent itfelf, went back, and 
left me upon the land almoft dry, but half dead with 
the water I took in. I had fo much prefence of mind 
as well as breath left, that feeing myfelf nearer the, 
main land than I expefted, I got upon my feet, and 
endeavoured to make on towards the land as fafl as 
I could, before another wave ihould return, and take 
me up again. But I foon found it was impoflible 
to avoid it ; for I faw the fea cotne after me as high 
as a great hill, and as furious as an enemy which I 
had no means or ftrength to contend with ; my 
bufmefs was to hold my breath, and rife myfelf upon 
the water, if I could: and fo by fwimming to 
preferve my breathing, and pilot myfelf towards the 
Ihore, if poffible j my greatefl concern now being? 

that 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ^^ 

that the fea, as it would carry me a great way 
towards the fhore when it came on, might not 
carry me back again with it when it gave back 
towards the fea. 

The wave that came upon me again, buried me 
at once 20 or 30 foot deep in its own body ; and I 
could feel myfelf carried with a mighty force and 
fwiftnefs towards the fhore a very great way ; but 
I held my breath, and affifled myfelf to fwim ftill 
forward with all my might, I was ready to burft 
with holding my breath, when, as I felt myfelf 
rifmg up, fo to my immediate relief, I found my 
head and hands fhoot out above the furface of the 
water ; and though it was not two feconds of time 
that I could keep myfelf fo, yet it relieved me 
greatly, gave me breath and new courage, I was 
covered again with water a good while, but not fo 
long but I held it out ; and finding the water had 
fpentitfeif, and began to return, I ftruck forward 
againft the return of the waves, and felt ground 
again with my feet. I flood flill a few moments to 
recover breath, and till the water went from me, 
and then took to my heels, and run with what 
ftrength I had farther towards the fhore. But 
neither would this deliver me from the fury of the 
fea, which came pouring in after me again, and 
twice more I was lifted up by the waves and carried 
forwards as before, the fhore being very flat. 

The lafl time of thefe two had well near been 
fatal to me ; for the fea having hurried me along as 
before, landed me, or rather dafhed me againfl a 
piece of a rock, and that with fuch force, as it 
left me fenfelefs, and indeed helplefs, as to my own 
E 4 deliverance j 



S6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

deliverance ; for the blow taking my fide and breaft, 
beat the breath as it were quite out of my body ; 
and had it returned again immediately, I muft have 
been ftrangled in the water ; but I recovered a little 
before the return of the waves, and feeing I fliould be 
covered again with the water, I refolved to hold faft 
by a piece of the rock, and fo to hold my breath, if 
poflible, till the wave went back ; now as the waves 
were not fo high as at fir ft, being near land, I held 
my hold till the wave abated, and then fetched 
another run, which brought me fo near the Ihore, 
that the next Wave, though it went over me, yet did 
not fo fwallow me up as to carry me away, and the 
next run I took I got to the mair^ land, where, 
to my great comfort, I clambered up the clifts 
of the fliore, "and fat me down upon the grafs, free 
from danger, and quite out of the reach pf the water, 
I was now landed, and fafe on fhore, and began 
to look up and thank God that my life was faved in 
a cafe wherein there was fome minutes before fcarce 
any room to hope. I believe it is impoffible to 
exprefs to the life what the extafies and tranfports of 
the foul are, when it is fo faved, as I may fay, out' 
of the very grave ; and I do not wonder now at 
that cuftom, viz. that when a malefactor, tvho 
has the halter about his neck, i§ tied up, and juft 
going to be turned off, and has a reprieve brought 
to him : I fay, I do not wonder that they bring a 
furgeon with it, to let him blood that very mo- 
ment they tell him of it, that the furprize may not 
drive the animal fpirits from the heart, and over- 
whelm him : 

For fudden joys ^ like griefs^ confound at firft. 

I walked 




,:///./, /^v/^/^-/ 



//yA//// ///'. J^,v^//,/> 



'j'u/-/4s<hu iui^:'/.>/~^r fy7./.>H .i/.v/-./-//<-,y>;vv/.///'/r. 




AST L 



.U.N---- ;;"] 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ^7 

I walked about on the Ihore, lifting up my hands 
and my whole being, as I may fay, wrapt up in the 
contemplation of my deliverance, making a thoufand 
geftures and motions which I cannot defcribe^ 
refleding upon all my comerades that were drowned, 
and that there fhould not be one foul faved but 
myfelf ; for, as for them, I never faw them after- 
wards, or any fign of them, except three of their 
hats, one cap, and two fhoes that were not fellows* 

I caft my eyes to the ftnanded veflel, when the 
breach and froth of the fea being fo big, I could 
hardly fee it, it lay fo far off, and confidered. Lord I 
how was it poffible I could get on fliore ! 

After I had folaced my mind with the comfortable 
part of my condition, I began to look round me, to 
fee what kind of place I was in, and what was next 
to be done, and I foon found my comforts abater 
and that in a word I had a dreadful deliverance : 
for I was wet, had no cloaths to Ihift me, nor any 
thing either to eat or drink to comfort me ; neither 
did 1 fee any profpefl: before me, but that of perifliing 
with hunger, or being devoured by wild beads ; and 
that which was particularly afflifting to me, was, 
that I had no weapon either to hunt and kill any 
creature for my fuftenance, or to defend myfelf 
a^ainft any other creature that might defire to kill 
me for theirs : in a word, I had nothing about me 
but a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a little tobacco in 
a box ; this was all my provifion, and this threw 
me into terrible agonies of mind, that for a 
while I run about like a mad-man ; night coming 
upon me, I began with -a heavy heart to confider 
^hat would be my lot if tliere were any ravenous 

beads 



5$ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

bead in that country, feeing at night they always 
come abroad for their prey. 

AH the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that 
time, was, to get up into a thick bufhy tree like a 
fir, but thorny, which grew near me, and where 
I refolved to fit all night, and confider the next day 
what death I fhould die, for as yet I faw no profpeS 
of life ; I walked about a furlong from the fhore, to 
fee if I could find any frefli water to drink, which I 
did, to my great joy ; and having drank, and put a 
little tobacco in my mouth to prevent hunger, I went 
to the tree, and getting up into it, endeavoured to 
place myfelf fo, as that if I fhould fleep I might not 
fall ; and having cut me a fhort flick, like a 
truncheon, for my defence, I took up my lodging, 
and having been excefTively fatigued, 1 fell fad afleep, 
and flept as comfortably as, I believe, fev/ could 
have done in my condition, and found myfelf the 
mofl refrefhed with it that I think I ever was on fucli 
an pccafion. 

When I waked it was broad day, the weather 
clear, and the florm abated, fo that the fea did not 
rage and fwell as before : but that which furprized 
me mofl, was, that the fhip was lifted off in the 
night from the fand where flie lay, by the fwelling of 
the tide, and v/as driven up almofl as far as the rock 
which I firfl mentioned, where I had been fo bruifed 
by the dafliing me againfl it ; this being within about 
a mile from the fhore where I was, and the fhip 
feeming to fland upright flill, I wifhed myfelf on 
board, that, at. leafl, I might fave fome neceffary 
things for my ufe. '< 

When I came down from my apartment in the 
tree, I looked about me again, and the firfl thing I 

found 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* 59 

found was the boat, which lay as the wind and thefea 
had toffed her up upon the land, about two miles on 
my right hand, I walked as far as I could upon the, 
fhore to have got to her, but found a neck or inlet of 
water between me and the boat, which was about 
half a mile broad, fo I came back for the prefent, 
being more intent upon getting at the fhip, 
where I hoped to find fomething for my prefent 
fubfiftence, 

A little after noon I found the fea very calm, and 
the tide ebbed fo far out, that I could come within a 
quarter of a mile of the fhip ; and here I found a freih 
renewing of my grief ; for I faw evidently, that if we 
had kept on board, we had been all fafe, that is to 
iay, we had all got fafe on ftiore, and I had not been 
fo miferable as to be left entirely deftitute of all com- 
fort and company, as I now was ; this forced tears 
from my eyes again, but as there was little relief in 
that, I refolved, if pofTible, to get to the fhip, fo I 
pulled off my cloaths, for the weather was hot to 
extremity, and took the water ; but when I came to 
the fhip, my difficulty was flill greater to know how 
to get on board, for as Ihe lay a-ground, and high 
out of the water, there was nothing within my reach 
to lay hold of. I fwam round her twice, and the 
fecond time I fpied a fmall piece of a rope, which 
I wondered I did not fee at firfl, hang down by the 
fore-chains fo low as that with great difficulty I got 
hold of it, and by the help of that rope got up into 
the forecaftle of the fhip ; here I found that the (hip 
was bulged, and had a great deal of water in her hold, 
but that fhe lay fo on the fide of a bank of hard fand, 

or rather earjji, and her flern lay lifted up upon the 

bunk. 



6o LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

bank, and her head low almoft to the water ; by 
this means all her quarter was free, and all that \^zs 
in that part was dry ; for you may be fure my firft 
work was to fearch and to fee what was fpoiled 
and what was free ; and firft I found that all the 
ihip's provifions were dry and untouched by the 
water ; and being very well difpofed to eat, I 
went to the bread-room and filled my pockets with 
bifket, and eat it as I went about other things, for I 
had no time to lofe. I alfo found fome rum in the 
great cabin, of which I took a large dram, and 
which I had indeed need enough of to fpirit me for 
what was before me : Now I wanted nothing but a 
boat to fumifli myfelf with many things which I fore- 
law would be very neceffary to me. 

It was in vain to fit ftill and wifh for what was not 
to be had, and this extremity rouzed my application ; 
we had feveral fpare yards, and two or three large 
fparrs of wood, and a fpare top-maft or two in the 
Ihip ; I refolved to fall to work with thefe, and flung 
as many of them over-board as I could manage of their 
weight, tying every one with a rope that they might 
not drive away ; when this was done I went down 
the Ihip^s fide, and pulling them to me, I tied four 
of them faft together at both ends as well as I could, 
in the form of a raft, and laying two or three fhort 
pieces of plank upon them crofs-ways, I found I could 
walk upon it very well, but that it was not aWe to 
bear any great weight, the pieces being too light ; 
fo I went to work, and with the carpenter's faw I 
cut a fpare top-maft into three lengths, and added 
them to my raft, with a great deal of labour and 
pains ; but hope of furnifliing myfelf with neceffaries 

CXicouragecJ 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 6 1 

encouraged me to go beyoild what I fhould have been 
able to have done upon another occafion. 

My raft was now ftrong enough to bear any rea- 
fonable weight ; my next care was what to load it 
•with, and how to preferve what I laid upon it from 
the fur f of the fea ; but I was not long confidering 
this ; I firft laid all the planks or boards upon it that 
I could get, and having confidered well what I mod 
wanted, I firft got three of the feamen's chefts, which 
I had broken open and emptied, and lowered them 
down upon my raft ; the firft of thefe I filled with 
provifions, viz. bread, rice, three Dutch cheefes, 
five pieces of dried goat's flefh, which we lived much 
upon, and a little rtmsinder of European corn which 
had been laid by for fome fowls which we brought 
to fea with us, but the fowls were killed ; there had 
been fome barley and wheat together, but, to my 
great difappointment, I found afterwards that the 
rats had eaten or fpoiled it all ; as for liquors, I 
found feveral cafes of bottles belonging to our fkipper, 
in which were fome cordial waters, and in all above 
five or fix gallons of rack, thefe I flowed by them- 
felves, there being no need to put them into the cheft, 
nor no room for them. While I was doing this, I 
found the tide began to flow, though very calm, and I 
had the mortification to fee my coat, fliirt, and waift- 
coat, which I had left on fliore upon the fand, fwim 
awa^ ; as for my breeches, which were only linen, 
and open-knee'd, I fwam on board in them and my 
flockings : however, this put me upon rummaging 
for cloatha, of which I found enough, but took no 
more than I wanted for prefent ufe, for I had other 
things which my eye was more upon; as firft, tools to 

work 



62 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

work with on fhore, and it was after long fearching 
that I found out the carpenter's cheft^ which was 
indeed a very ufeful prize to me, and much more 
valuable than a fhip-loading of gold, would have been 
at that time ; I got it down to my raft, even whole 
as it was, without lofing time to look into it, for I 
knew in general what it contained. 

My next care was for fome ammunition and arms; 
there were two very good fowling-pieces in the great 
cabin, and two piftols, thefe I fecured firft, with 
fbme powder-horns, and a fmall bag of (hot, and two 
old rufty fv/ords : I knew there were three barrels of 
powder in the fhip, but knew not where our gunner 
had (lowed them ; but with much fearch I found 
them, two of them dry and good, the third had taken 
water ; thofe two I got to my raft, with the arms ; 
and now I thought myfelf pretty well freighted, and 
began to think how I fliould get to (hore with them, 
having neither fail, oar, or rudder, and the leaft 
cap full of wind would have overfet all my navi- 
gation. 

I had three encouragements: i. A fmoothcalm 
fea : 2. The tide rifing and fetting into the (hore ; 
3. What little wind there was blew me towards the 
land ; and thus, having found two or three broken 
oars belonging to the boat, and befides the tools 
which were in the cheft, I found two faws, an axe, 
and a hammer, and with this cargo I put to fea : 
for a mile, or thereabouts, my raft went very well, 
only that I found it drive a little diftant from the 
place where I had landed before, by which I per- 
ceived that there was fome indraft of the water, and 
confequently I hoped to find fome creek or river 

there. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 63 

there, which I might make ufe of as a port to get to 
land with my cargo. 

As I imagined, fo it was ; there appeared before 
me a little opening of the land, and I found a ftrong 
current of the tide fet into it, fo I guided my raft as 
well as I could to keep in the middle of the ftream : 
but here I had like to have fufFered a fecond fhip- 
wreck, which, if I had, I think verily would have 
broke my heart ; for knowing nothing of the coaft, 
my raft run a-ground at one end of it upon a Ihoal^ 
and not being a-ground at the other end, it wanted 
but a little that all my cargo had flipped off towards 
that end that was a -float, and fo fallen into the 
water : I did my utmofl, by letting my back againfl: 
the chefl:s, to keep them in their places, but cpuld 
not thruft off the raft with all my flrength, neither 
durft I ftir from the pofture I was in, but hoI4ing up 
the chefts with all my might, ftood in that manner 
near half an hour, in which time the rifmg of the 
water brought me a little more upon a level, and a 
little after, the water fliill rifmg, my raft floated 
again, and I thrufl: her ofl^ with the oar I had, into 
the channel, and then driving up higher, I at length 
found myfelf in the mouth of a little river, -with 
land on both fides, and a flrong current or tide run- 
ning up ; I looked on both fides for a proper place 
to get to fhore, for I was not willing to be driven 
too high up the river, hoping in time to fee fome 
jfhip at fea, and therefore refolved to place myfelf as 
near the coafl as I could. 

At length I fpied a little cove on the right fhore of 
the creek, to which with great pain and difficulty I 
guided my raft, and at lafl got fo near, as that, 

reaching 



©4 LjfFE AND ADVENTURES 

reaching ground with my oar, I could thrufl: her 
direSly in ; but here I had like to have dipt all my 
cargo in the fea again ; for that fhore lying pretty 
fteep, that is to fay Hoping, there was no place to 
land, but where one end of the float, if it run on 
Ihore, would lie fo high, and the other fink lower as 
before, that it would endanger my cargo again : all 
that I could do, was to wait 'till the tide was at the 
higheft, keeping the raft with my oar like an anchor 
to hold the fide of it faft to the fhore, near a flat piece 
of ground, which I expe£ted the water would flow 
over ; and fo it did : as foon as I found water enough, 
for my raft drew about a foot of water, I thrufl her 
on upon that flat piece of ground, and there faflened 
or moored her by flicking my two broken oars into 
the ground ; one on one fide near one end, and one 
on the other fide near the other end ; and thus I lay 
till the water ebbed away, and left my raft and all 
my cargo fafe on flbiore. 

My next work was to view the country, andfeeka 
proper place for my habitation, and where to flow my 
goods, to fecure them from whatever might happen ; 
where I was I yet knew not ; whether on the continent 
or 9n an ifland, whether inhabited, or not inhabited, 
whether in danger of wild beafls or not : there was a 
hill not above a mile from me, which rofe up very fleep 
und high, and which feemed to over-top fome other 
hills which layas in a ridge from it northward; I took 
cut one of the fowling pieces, and one of the piflols, 
and an horn of powder, and thus armed I travelled 
fordifcoveryuptothe top of that hill, where, after Ihad 
with great labour and difficulty go to the top,^I faw 
my fates to my great afflidion, viz. that I was in an 

ifland 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOEi 6$ 

iHand environed every way with the fea, no land to 
be feen, except fome rocks which lay a great way 
off, and two fmall iflands lefs than this, which lay 
about three leagues to the weft. 

I found alfo that the ifland I was in was barren^ 
and, as I faw good reafon to believe, uninhabited, 
except bywildbeafts, of whom however I faw none, 
yet I faw abundance of fowls, but knew not their 
kinds, neither when I killed them could I tell what 
was fit for food, and what not ; at my coming back, 
I fliot at a great bird, which I faw fitting upon a tree 
on the fide of a great wood, I believe it was the firft 
gun that had been fired there fince the' creation of the 
world ; I had no fooner fired, but from all the parts of 
the wood there arofe an innumerable number of fowls 
of many forts, making a confufed fcreaming, and 
crying every one according to his ufual note ; but 
not one of them of any kind that I knew : as for the 
creature I killed, I took it to be a kind of a hawk, its 
colour and beak refembling it, but had no talons or 
claws more than common, its flefh was carrion, and 
fit for nothing. 

Contented with this difcovery, 1 catne back to my 
raft, and fell to work to bring my cargo on fhore, 
which took me up the reft of that day, and what to 
do with myfelf at night I knew not, nor indeed where 
to reft ; for I was afraid to lie down on the ground, 
not knowing but fome wild beaft might devour, me, 
though, as I afterwards found, there was really no 
need for thofe fears. 

However, as well as I could, I barricadoM myfelf 
round with the chefts and boards that I had brought 
on fhore, and made a kind of a hut for that night's 

Vol. L V F lodgingj 



66 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

lodging ; as for food, I yet faw not which way to 
fupply myfelf, except that I had feen two or three 
creatures like hares run out of the wood where I fhot 
the fowl. 

I now began to confider, that I might yet get a 
great many things out of the fhip, which would be 
Ufeful to me, and particularly fome of the rigging, 
and fails, and fuch other things as might come to 
land, and I refolved to make another voyage on 
board the veffel, if poffible ; and as I knew that the 
firft florm that blew mull neceffarily break her all in 
pieces, I refolved to fet all other things apart, 'till I 
got every thing out of the fliip that I could get ; then 
I called a council, that is to fay, in my thoughts, 
whether I Ihould take back the raft, but this appeared 
impracticable ; fo I refolved lo go as befare, when 
the tide was down, and I did fo, only that I flripped 
before I went from my hut, having nothing on but 
a chequered fliirt, and a pair of linen trowfers, and 
a pair of pumps on my feet. 

I got on board the fhip, as before, and prepared 3 
fecond raft, and having had experience of the firft, I 
neither made this fo unweildy, nor loaded it fo hard> 
but yet I brought away feveral things very ufeful to 
me ; as firft, in the carpenter^s ftores, I found two or 
three bags full of nails andfpikes, a great fcrew-jack^ 
a dozen or two of hatchets, and above all, that moft 
ufeful thing called a grind ftc^ie ; all thefe I fecured 
together, with feveral things belonging to the gun- 
ner, particularly two or three iron crows, and two 
barrels of mufquet-bullets, feven mufquets, and 
another fowling-piece, with fome fmall quantity of 
powder more ; a large bag full of fmall Ihot, and a 

great 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 6j 

great roll of flieet lead : but this laft was fo heavy, I 
could not hoift it up to get it over the fhip's fide. 

Befides thefe things, I took all the men's cloaths 
that I could find, and a fpare fore-top-fail, hammock, 
and fome bedding ; and with this I loaded my fecond 
raft, and brought them all fafe on fhore, to my very 
great comfort. 

I was under fome apprehenfions during my abfence 
from the land, that at leaft my provifions might be 
devoured on fhore ; but when I came back, I found 
no fign of any vifitor, only there fat a creature like a 
wild cat upon one of the chefts, which when I came 
towards it, ran away a little diftance, and chen flood 
flill J fhe fat very conlpofed, and unconcerned, and 
looked full in my face, as if fhe had a mind to be 
acquainted with me ; I prefented my gun at her, but 
as fhe did not underfland it, fhe was perfeQly 
unconcerned at it, nor did fhe offer to flir away ; 
upon which I toffed her a bit of bifcuit, though by the 
v/ay I was not very free of it, for my flore was not 
gr^at : however, I fpared her a bit, I fay, and flie 
went to it, fmelled of it, and ate it, and looked, as 
pleafed, for more, but I thanked her, and could 
fpare no more ; fo fhe marched off. 

Having got my fecond cargo on fhore, though I 
was fain to open the barrels of powder, and bring 
them by parcels, for they were too heavy, being 
large cafks, I went to work to make me a little tent 
with the fail and fome poles which I cut for that 
purpofe, and into this tent I brought every thing that 
I knew would fpoil, either with rain or fun, and 
1 piled all the empty chefls and cafks up in a circle 

F 2 round 



68 LIFE AN1> ADVENTURSg^ 

round the tent, to fortify it from any fudden attempf^ 
either from man or beaft. 

When I had done this I blocked up the door of 
the tent with fome boards within, and an empty 
chefts fet up an end without, and fpreading one of 
the beds upon the ground, laying my two piftols 
jufl at my head, and my gun at length by me, I went 
to bed for the firfl: time, and flept very quietly all 
night, for I was very weary and heavy, for the night 
before I had flept little^ and had laboured very hard 
all day, as well to fetch all thofe things from the fhip, 
as to get them on fliore. 

I had the biggeft magazine of all kinds now that 
ever w^ere laid up, I believe, for one man ; but I was 
not fatisfied flillj for while the fhip fat upright in 
that poflure, I thought I ought to get every thing out 
of her that I could ; fo every day at low water I went 
on board, and brought away fome thing or other: 
but particularly the third time I went, I brought 
away as much of the rigging as I could, as alfo all 
the fmall ropes and rope-twine I could get, with a 
pieceof fpare canvafs, which was to mend the fails 
upon occafion, and the barrel of wet gun-powder : in 
a word, I brought away all the fails firfl and laft, only 
that I was fain to cut them in pieces, and bring as 
much at a time as I could ; for they were no more 
ufeful to be fails, but as meer canvafs only. 

But that which comforted me more {lill, was, that 
at laft of all, after I had made five or fix fuch voyaged 
as thefe, and thought I had nothing more to expeft 
from the fhip that was worth my medling with ; I fay, 
after all this, I found a great hogfhead of bread, and 

three 






'.V:Y 



t 



lil.Et^^■*■0^-NlJ-i'"-^'', 




. / «y yti;/ /yy . C,-//ian/ 



( „.7^.t,:/ /y'. i'/.M.ihJ 



'Aif'li/t^U I'c/.^^j//<ic 6y/^Jbn Sf..:A:Jal4.'2ir^aJa(y . 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 69 

tliree large runlets of rum or fpirits, and a box of 
fugar, and a barrel of fine flower ; this was furprizlng 
to me, becaufel had given over expelling anymore 
provifions, except what was IppilM by the water : I 
foon emptied the hogfhead of that bread, and wrapt 
it up, parcel by parcel, in pieces of the fails, which 
I cut out : and in. a word, I got all this fafe on fliore 
alfo. • 

The next day I made another voyage; and now, 
having plundered the fliip of. what was portable and 
iit to hand out, I began with the cables ; and cutting 
the great cable intc pieces, fuch as I could move, I 
got two cables and a hawfer ou Ihore, with all the 
iron-work I could get; and having cut down the 
ipritfail-yard, and the mizen-yard, and every thing I 
could to make a large raft, I loaded it with all thofe 
heavy goods, and came away : , but my good luck 
began now to leave me'; for this raft was fo unweildy, 
^nd fo overladen, that after I was entered the little 
cave, where I had landed the reft of my goods, not 
being able to guide it fo handily as I did the other, it 
overfet, and threw me and all my cargo into the 
\vater ; as for myfeif it was no great harm, for I was 
near the fliore ; but as to my cargo, it was great part 
jof it loft, efpecially the iron, which I expeded would 
have been of great ufc to me: however, when the 
tide was out, I got moft of the pieces of cable afhore; 
^nd feme of the iron, though with infinite labour ; 
for I was fain to dip for it into the water, a work 
which fatigued me very much ; after this, I went 
every day on board, and brought away what I 
could get. 

F 3 I had 



^O LfFE AND ADVENTURES 

I had been now -13 days on fhore, and had been 
1 1 times on board the fhip ; in which time I had 
brought away ail that one pair of hands could well be 
fuppofed capable to bring, though I believe verily, 
had the calm weather held, I fhould have brought 
away the whole (hip, piece by piece : but preparing 
the 1 2th time to go on board, I found the wind 
began to rife ; however at low water I went on board, 
and though I thought I had rummaged the cabin fo 
effeftually, as that nothing more could be found, 
yet I difcovered a locker with drawers in it, in one 
of which I found two or three razors, and one pair of 
large fciffars, with fome ten or a dozen of good knives 
and forks ; in another I found about thirty fix pounds 
value in money, fome European coin, fome Brafily 
fome pieces of eight, fome gold, fome filver. 

I fmiled to myfelf at the fight of this money. O 
Drug ! faid I, aloud, what art thou good for ? thou 
art not worth to me, no not the taking off of the 
ground; one of thofe knives is worth all this heap; I 
have no manner of ufe for thee, even remain where 
thou art, and go to the bottom as a creature whofe 
life is not worth faving. However, upon fecond 
thoughts, I took it away, and wrapping all this in a 
piece of canvas, I began to think of making another 
raft, but while I was preparing this, I found the fky 
over-caft, and the wind began to rife, and in a 
quarter of an hour it blew a frefh gale from the fhore ; 
it prefently occurred to me, that it was in vain to pre^ 
tend to make a raft with the wind off fhore, and that 
it was my bufinefs to be gone before the tide of flood 
began, otherwife I might not be able to reach the 

fhore 



OF ROBINSOIJ CRUSOE, 7 1 

Jhote at all : accordingly I let myfelf down into the 
water, and fwam crofs the channel, which lay 
between the fliip and the fands, and even that with 
difficulty enough, partly with the weight of things I 
had about me, and partly the roughnefs of the water, 
for the wind rofe very haftily, and before ijt was quite 
high water it blew a ftorni. 

But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I 
lay with all my wealth about me v^y fecure. Ijt blew 
very hard all that night, and in the njorning when J 
looked out, behold no more fhip was to be feen ; I was 
a little furprized, but recovered myfelf with this 
fatisfaftory rejfleftlon, viz. That Ihad loft no time, 
nor abated no diligence to get every thing out of her 
that could be ufeful to me, and that indeed there was 
little left in her that I was able to bring away, if I 
bad had more time. 

I now gave over any more thoughts of the fliip, 
or of any thing out of her, except what might drive 
on fhore from her wreck, as indeed divers pieces of 
her afterwards did ; but thofe things were of fmall 
ufe to me. 

My thoughts were now wholly employed about 
fecuring myfelf againft either favages, if any fhould 
appear, or wild beafts, if any were in the ifland ; and 
I had many thoughts of the method how to do this, 
and what kind of dwelling to make ; whether I fhould 
make me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the 
earth: and, in ftiort, I refolved upon both, the 
manner and defcription of which it may not be im- 
proper to give an account of. 

I foon found the place I was in was not for my 
fettlement, particularly becaufe it was upon a low 

F 4 moorifli 



72 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

moorifh ground near the fea, and I believed would 
not be wholefome, and more particularly becaufe 
there was no frefli water near it, fo I refolved to find 
a more healthy and more convenient fpot of ground. 
I confulted feveral things in my fituation which I 
found would be proper for me, ift. Health, and 
frefli water, I jufl: now mentioned, sdly. Shelter 
from the heat, of the fun. 3dly, Security from rave- 
nous creatures, whether man orbeaft. 4thly, A view 
to the fea, that if God fent any fliip in fight, I might 
not lofe any advantage for my deliverance, of which 
I was not v/illing to banifli all my expeftation yet. 

In fearch of a place proper for this, I found a little 
plain on the fide of a rifing hill, whofe front towards 
this litttle plain was fteep as a houfe-fide, fo that 
nothing could come down upon me from the top ; on 
the fide of this rock there was a hollow place worn a 
little way in like the entrance or door of a cave, but 
there was not really any cave or way into the rock 
at all. 

On the flat of the green, juft before this hollow 
place, I refolved to pitch my tent : this plain was nqt 
above an hundred yards broad, and about twice as 
long, and lay like a green before my door, and at 
the end of it defcended irregularly every way down 
into the low grounds by the fea-fide. It was on the 
N.N.W. fide of the hill, fo that I was flieltered from 
the heat every day, till it came to a W. and by S. fun, 
or thereabouts, which in thofe countries is near thp 
fettlng. 

Before I fet up my tent, I drew a half circle 
before the hollow place, which took in about ten 
yards in its femi-diameter from the rock, and 

twenty 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. J^ 

twenty yards in its diameter, from its beginning and 
ending. 

In this half circle I pitched tv/o rows of ftrong 
flakes, driving them into the ground till they ftood 
very firm, like piles, the biggeft end being out of the 
ground about five foot and a half, and (harpened on 
the top ; the two rows did not ftand above fix inches 
from one another. 

Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in 
the fhip, and laid them in rows one upon another, 
v/ithin the circle between thefe two rows offtakes, up 
to the top, placing other flakes in the infide, leaning 
againjfl them, about tv/o foot and a half high, like a 
fpur to a pofl, and this fence was fo flrong, that 
neither man or beafl could get into it or over it : this 
cofl me a great deal of time and labour, efpecially to 
cut the piles in the woods, bring them to the place, 
3nd drive them into the earth. 

The entrance into this place I made to be not by a 
door, but by a fliort ladder, to go over the top, 
which ladder, when I was in, I lifted over^fter me, 
and fo I v/as compleatly fenced in, and fortified, as 
I thought, from all the world, and confequently flept 
fecure -in the night, which otherwife I could not have 
done, though as it appeared afterward, there was no 
need of all this caution from the enemies that I appre- 
hended danger from. 

Into this fence or forrrefs, v/ith infinite labour, 
I carried all my riches, all my provifions, ammu- 
nition and flores, of which you have the account 
;above, and I macje me a large tent, which, to prefer\^e 
me from the rains, that in one part of the year are 
very violent there, I made double, viz. one fmaller 

tent 



74 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

tent Within, and one larger tent above it, and covered 
the uppermoft with a large tarpaulin which I had 
faved among the fails. 

Andnowl laynomore for a while in the bed which 
I had brought on fliore, but in a hammock, which 
was indeed a very good one, and belonged to the 
mate of the fiiip. 

Into this tent I brought all my provlfions, and 
every thing that would fpoil by the wet ; and having 
thus enclofed all my goods, I made up the entrance, 
which till now I had left open, and fo pafTed and re- 
paired, as I faid, by a fliort ladder. 

When I had done this, I began to work my way 
into the rock, and bringing all the earth and ftones 
that I dug down, out through my tent, I laid them 
up within my fence in the nature of a terras, that fo 
it raifed the ground within about a foot and a half; 
and thus I made me a cave jufl behind my tent> 
which ferved me like a cellar to my houfe. 

It coll me much labour, and many days, before 
all thefe things were brought to perfedion, and 
therefore I muft go back to fome other things which 
took up fome of v^j thoughts. At the fame time it 
happened, after I had laid my fcheme for the fetting up 
my tent, and making the cave, that a ft6rm of rain 
falling from a thick dark cloud, a fudden flafh of 
lightning happened, and after that a great clap of 
thunder, as is naturally the effeft of it ; I was not fo 
much furprized with the lightning, as I was with a 
thought which darted into my mind as fwift as the 
lightning itfelf: O my powder! my very heart funk 
within me, when I thought, that at one blafl all my 
powder might be deftroyed : on which, not my 

defence 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 75 

defence only, but the providing me food, as I 
thought, entirely depended; I was nothing near fo 
anxious about my own danger; though had the 
powder took fire, I had never known who had 
hurt me. 

Such impreffion did this make upon me, that after 
the ftorm was over, I laid afide all my works, my 
building, and fortifying, and applied myfelf to make 
bags and boxes ' to feparate the powder, and to keep 
it a little and a Jittle in a parcel, in hope, that v/hat- 
ever might come, it might not all take fire at once, 
and to keep it fo apart, that it fliould not be poflible 
to make one part fire another. I finifhed this work 
in about a fortnight, and I think my powder, which in 
all was about 240 pounds weight, was divided in not 
lefs than a hundred parcels ; as to the barrel that had 
been wet, I did not apprehend any danger from that, 
fo I placed it in my new cave, which in my fancy I 
^called my kitchen ; and the reft I hid up and 
down in holes among the rocks, fo that no wet 
might '^cpme to it, marking very carefully where I 
laid it. 

In the interval of time while this was doing, I 
went out once at leaft every day with my gun, as 
well to divert myfelf, as to fee if I could kill any 
thing fit for food, and as near as I could to acquaii.t 
myfelf with what the ifland produced. The firft: 
time I went out I prefently difcovered that there 
were goats in the ifland, which was a great fatisfaftion 
to me ; but then it was attended with this misfortune 
to me, viz. that they were fo fliy, fo fubtle, and fo 
fwift of foot, that it was the moft difficult thing in the 
world to come at them : but I was not difcouraged 

at 



y6 LITE AND ADVENTURES 

at this, not doubting but I might now and theaflioot 
one, as it foon happened, for after I had found their 
haunts a little, I laid wait in this manner for them : 
I obferved, if they faw me in the valleys, though they 
were upon the rocks, they would run away as in a 
terrible fright ; but if they were feeding in the 
valleys, and I was upon the rocks, they took no 
notice of me ; from whence I concluded, that by the 
pofition of their opticks, their fight was fo direded 
downward, that they did not readily fee objects that 
were above them; fo afterward I took this method, 
I always climbed the rocks firft, to get above thorn, 
and then had frequently a fair mark. The firft ftiot 
I made among thefe creatures, I killed a fhe-goat, 
which had a little kid by her, which fhe gave fuck to, 
which grieved me heartily ; but when the old one 
fell, the kid ftood ftock ft ill by her till I came and 
took her up, and not only fo, but when I carried 
the old one with me upon my fhoulders, the kid 
followed me quite to my enclofurc, upon which I 
laid down the dam, and took the kid in my arms, 
and carried it over my pale, in hopes to have bred 
it up tame, but it would not eat, fo I was forced to 
kill it and eat it myfelf ; thefe two fupplied me with 
flefti a great while, for I eat fparlngly ; and faved my 
provifions (my bread efpecially) as m.uch as poffibly 
I could. 

Having now fixed my habitation, I found it 
abfolutely neceffary to provide a place to make a fire 
in, and fewel to burn ; and what I did for that, as 
alfo how I enlarged my cave, and what conveniences 
I made, I ftiall give a full account of in its place : 
but I muft firft give fome little account of myfelf, and 

of 



OF ROBIXSON CRUSOE. 'J'] 

of my thoughts about living, which it may well be 
fuppofed were not a few. 

I had a difmal profpedi: of my condition ; for as 
I w^is not caft away upon that ifland without being 
driven, as is faid, by a violent ftorm quite out of the 
courfe of our intended voyage, and a great way, viz. 
fome hundreds of leagues out of the ordinary courfe 
of the trade of mankind, I had great reafon to 
confider it as a determination of heaven, that in this 
defolate place, and in this defolate manner I (hould 
end my life ; the tears would run plentifully down 
my face when I made thefe reflexions, and fomctimes 
I would expoftulate with myfelf, why Providence 
ihould thus compleatly ruin his creatures, and render 
them fo abfolutely miferable, fo without help 
abandoned, fo entirely depreffed, that it could 
hardly be rational to be thankful for fuch a life. 

But fomething always returned fwift upon me to 
check thefe thoughts, and to reprove me; and 
particularly one day, walking with my gun in my 
hand by the fea-fide, I was very penfive upon the 
fubjeft of my prefent condition, when reafon as 
it were expoflulating with me to'ther way, thus : 
Well, you are in a defolate condition, 'tis true, but 
pray remember, where are the . reft of you ? Did 
not you come eleven of you into the boat ? Where 
are the ten ? Why were they not faved and you loft ? 
Why were you fmgled out ? Is it better to be here or 
there ? and then I pointed to the fea. All evils are 
to be confidered with the good that is in them, and 
with what worfe attended them. 

Then it occurred to rne again, how well I w^as 
furnifhed for my fubfiftance, and what would have 

been 



7? LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

been my cafe if it had not happened, which was an 
hundred thoufand^ to one^ that the (hip floated from 
the place where flie firfl ftruck, and was driven fo 
near the fhore that I had time to get all thefe 
things out of her : what would have been my cafe, 
if I had been to have lived in the condition in which 
I at firfl came on fliore, without neceflaries of life, 
or neceflaries to fupply and procure them? particularly 
faid I, aloud, (though to myfelf) what fhould I have 
done without a gun, without ammunition, without 
any tools to make any thing, or to work with ; without 
cloaths, bedding, a tent, or any manner of covering: 
and that now I had all thefe to a fufficient quantity ; 
and was in a fair way to provide myfelf in fuch a 
manner, as to live without my gun when my 
ammunition was fpent ; fo that I had a tolerable 
view of fubfifting, without any^ w^ant, as long as I 
lived ; for I confidered from the beginning how 
I fhould provide for the accidents that might happen ^ 
andr^or the time that was to come, even not only 
after m.y ammunition fhould be fpent, but even after 
my health or flrength fliould decay. 

I confefs I had not entertained any notion of my 
ammunition being deftroyed at one blafl, I mean my 
powder being blown up by lightning, and this made 
the thoughts of it fo furprifing to me when it 
lightened and thundered, as I obferved jufl now. 

And now, being about to enter into a melancholy 
relation of a fcene of filent life, fuch perhaps as was 
never heard of in the world before, I fliall take it from 
itsbeginning, and continue itin itsorder. It was, bymy 
account, the 30th of September when, in the manner 
as abovefaid, I firft fet foot upon this horrid^ ifland, 

when 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 79 

when the fun being, to us, in its autumnal equinox, 
was almoft jufl over my head, for I reckoned myfelf, 
by obfervation, to be in the latitude of 9 degrees 22 
minutes north of the line. 

After I had been there about ten or twelve days, 
it came into my thoughts, that I fhould lofe my 
reckoning of time for want of books, and pen and 
ink, and fliould even forget the fabbath days from 
the working days ; but to prevent this, I cut it with 
my knife upon a large poft, in capital letters, and 
making it into a great crofs, 1 fet it up on the Ihore 
where I firft landed, 1)1%, I came onjhore hert on the 
'^oth of Sept. 1659. Upon the fides of this fquare 
poft, I cut every day a notch with my knife, and 
every feventh notch was as long again as the reft, 
and every firft day of the month as long again 
as that long one j and thus I kept my calendar, or 
weekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning of time. 

In the next place we are to obferve, that among 
the many things which I brought out of the fliip in 
the feveral voyages, which, as abovementioned, I 
made to it, I got feveral things of lefs value, but 
not all lefs ufeful to me, which I omittted fetting 
down before ; as in particular, pens, ink, and paper, 
feveral parcels in the captain's, mate's, gunner's, 
and carpenter's keeping, three or four 'compafles, 
fome mathematical inftruments, dials, perfpeSives, 
charts, and books of navigation, all which I huddled 
together, whether I might want them or no ; alfo 
I found three very good bibles which pame to 
me in my cargo from England^ and which I had 
packed up among my things j fome Portugueze books 

alfo. 



So LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

alfo, and among them two or three popifh prayer!* 
books, and feveral other books, all which I carefully 
fecured. And I muft not forget, that we had in the 
fhip a dog and two cats, of whofe eminent hiftbry 
I may have occafion to fay fomething in its place } 
for I carried both the cats with me ; and as for the 
dog, he jumped out of the fhip of himfelf, and fwam 
on fhore to me the day after I went on fhore with 
my firft cargo, and was a trufty fervant to me many 
years ; I wanted nothing that he could fetch me^ 
nor any company that he could make up to me ^ 
I only wanted to have him talk to me, but that he 
could not do : as I obferved before, I found pen, 
ink and paper, and I hufbanded them to theutmoftj^ 
and I fliall fhew, that while my ink lafted, I kept 
things very exa£t ; but after that was gone, I could 
not ; for I could not make any ink, by any means 
that I could devife. 

And this put me in mind that I wanted many 
things, notwithftanding all that I had amaffed 
together ; and of thefe, this of ink was one, as alfo 
fpade, pick-axe and fliovel, to dig or remove the 
earth ; needles, pins, and thread ; as for linen, 
I foon learned to want that without much difBculty. 

This want of tools made every work I did go on 
heavily, and it was near a whole year before I had 
entirely finifhed rriy little pale or furrounded 
habitation : the piles or flakes, which were as 
heavy a^ I could well lift, were a long time in cutting 
and preparing in the woods, and more by far in 
bringing home ; fo that I fpent fometimes two days 
in cutting and bringing home one of thofe pods, 
and a third day in driving it into the ground ; for 

which 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 8 1 

xvhich purpofe I got a heavy piece of wood at firfl, 
but at lad bethought myfelf of one of the iron crows, 
which however, though I found itj yet it made driv- 
ing thofe polls or piles very laborious and tedious work. . 

But what need I have been concerned at the 
tedioufnefs of any thing I had to do, feeing I had 
time enough to do it in, nor had I any other 
employment if that had been over, at lead, that I 
could forefee, except the ranging the ifland to feek 
for food, which I did more or lefs every day. 

I now began to confider ferioufly my condition, 
and the circumflance I was reduced to, and 1 drew 
up the ftate of my affairs in writing, riot fo riiuch 
to leave them to any that were lo come after me, for 
I wiis like to have but feW heirs, as to deliver my 
thoughts from daily poring upon them, and afflicting 
my mind ; and as my reafon began now to m after 
my defpondency, I began to comfort myfelf as well 
as I coiild, and to fet the good againft the evil, that 
I might have fomething to diftrnguifh my cafe from 
worfe ; and I ftated it very impartially, like debtor 
and creditor, the comforts I enjoyed againft the 
miferics I fuffered, thus : 

Evil. Good. 

I a?7i cajl ttpon a horrU But I am alive ^ and 

hie defolatc ijland^ void of not drowned ^as all fuyjloip^ 

all hope of recovery. company iva-s. 

i am Jingled out and Bui I am Jingled out too 
feparated^ as it ivere^from from all the flap's crew to 
alltheworldy to be miferC'^ be fpared from death ; and 
hie* he that miraculoujly faved 

me from deaths can deliver 
me from this condition. 
Vol. L G lam, 



S2 ^iPE aJtd adventuress 

Evil. Good. 

/ am divided from man" But I am noijlart^ed and 
hind^ a Jolitaire^ one ba- perijhing on a barren plaeCy 
nijhedfrom human fociety. affording no fujienance^ 

I have not cloaths to But I am in a hoi cli^ 
cover me. maie^ where if I had c loath sf 

I could hardly wear them^ 

I am without any de^ But I am caji on an 
fence or means to rejiji any ijland^ where I fee no wild 
violence of man or beafl. beajis to hurt me^ as I faw. 

on the coaji of Africa : and 
what if I had been floip-^ 
wrecked there ? 

I have no foul to fpeak But God wonderfully feni 
iOy or relieve me. the Jhip in near enough to 

;ihe Jhore that I have got^ 
ten out fo many neceffary 
things as will either fupply 
my . wants ^ or enable me to 
fupply myfclf even as long 
as Hive. 

Upon the whole, here was an undoubted tefii^ 
mony, that there was fcarce any condition in the 
world fo miferable, but there v/as fomething negative 
or fomething pofiiive to be thankful for in it ; and let 
this ftand as a diredtion from the experience of the 
nioft miferable of all conditions in this world, that we 

may 



t>F ROBINSO^T CRUSOE* 83 

tnay always find in it fomething to comfort ourfelves 
from, and to fet in the defcription of good and ^vil, 
on the credit fide of the account. 

Having now brought my mind a little to relifh 
my condition, and given over looking out to fea, 
to fee if I could fpy a fhip ; I fay, giving over thefe 
things, I began to apply myfelf to accommodate my 
Ivay of living, and to make things as eafy to me as I 
could. 

I have already defcrlbed my habitation, which 
was a tent under the fide of a rock, furrounded with 
aftrong pale of ports and cables, but I might now 
rather call it a wall, for I raifed a kind of wall up 
againft it of turfs, about two foot thick on the out- 
fide, and after fome time, I think it was a year and 
half, I raifed rafters from it, leaning to the rock, 
and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees, and 
fuch things as I could get to keep out the rain, 
which I found at fome times of the year very 
violent. 

I have already obferved how I brought all my 
goods into this pale, and into the cave which I 
had made behind me : but I mud obferve too that 
at firft this was a confufed heap of goods, which as 
they lay in no order, fo they took up all my place, 
I had no room to turn myfelf; . fo I fet myfelf to 
enlarge my cave and works farther into the earth ; 
for it was a loofe fandy rock, which yielded eafily to 
the labour I befto wed on it : and fo when I found I 
was pretty fafe as to beafts of prey, I worked fi4e- 
ways to the right hand into the rock ; and then, 
turning to the right again, worked quite out, and 

G 2 made 



84 I-lfE AND ADVENTURES 

made rhe a door to come out, on the outlide of iny 
pale or fortification. 

This gave me not only egrefs and regrefs, as it 
were a back-wfey to my tent and to my llore-houfe„^ 
but gave me room to ftow my goods^ 

And now I began to apply rayfeif to make fuchri 
neceflary things as I found I moft wanted^ pmiicularly. 
a chair and a table ; for without thefe I v. as not able 
to enjoy the few comforts L had in the world ; I could 
not write or eat, or dp. feveral things with fa much 
pleafure viithout.a table* 

So I went to work ; and here I m'uft needn obferveji • 
that as reafon is- the fubftance and original of the '' 
mathematicks, fo by ftating and fquariiig every 
thing by reafon, and by inaking the mod rational 
judgment of things, every man may be in time i 
mafter of every mechanick art. I. had never handled 
a tool in my life, and yet in time by labour, appli^ 
cation and contrivance, I found at laft that I wanted 
nothing but I could have made it, efpecially if I had •" 
had tools ; however, I made 'abundance of things^ 
even without tools, and fome with no more to6l$^ ? 
than an adze and a hatchet, which perhaps were' ' 
never made that way before, and that with infinite 
labour: for example, if I wanted a beard, I had no 
other way but to cut down, a tree, fet it on ail edge 
before me, and hew it fiat on either' fide with my 
axe, till I had brought it to be as thin as a plank, 
and then dub it fmooth with my adze. It is true, 
by this method I could make but one board out of 
a whole tree, but this I had no remedy for but 
patience, any more than I had for the prodigious 

deal 




— />*Mw» fyy-i.^M^'T*^ 



//L/.V/ // /y . //-..//{r.,-/ 



"/h^/tj-Si^ J/onf 6- r7^r ^j- Tc4m Sti-rA:t^a/e. Mt^caJit/r. 



i t ! r ]'.■■ v7 'i C . ; i\ 



r.RY 



L 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 85 

(deal of time and labour which it took me up to make 
a plank or board : but my time or labour was ' 
little worth, and fo it w as as well employed one way 
as another. 

However, I made me a table and a chair, as I 
obferved above, in the fivft place, and this I did out 
of the fhort pieces of boards that I brought on my 
Taft from the fhip : but when I had wrought out 
fome boards, as above, I madeiarge (helves of the 
treadth of a foot and a half one over another, all 
along one fide of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, 
and iron- work, and in a wordV to feparate every 
thing at large in their places, that I might come 
eafily at them ; I knocked pieces into the wall of 
the rock to hang my guns and all things that would 
liang up. 

So that had my cave been to be feen, it looked 
like a general magazine of all neceflary things ; and 
I had every thing fo ready at my hand, that it w as 
a great pleafure to me to fee all my goods in fuch 
order, and efpecially to find my ftock of all necef- 
jaries fo great. 

And now it was that I began to keep a journal 
of every day^s employment ; for indeed at firlt I was 
in too much a hurry ; and not only hurry as to 
labour, but in too much difcompofure of mind, and 
my journal would have been full of many dull things. 
For example, I muft have faid thus ; Sept. the 3cth, 
after I got to fiiore, and had efcaped drow^ning, 
inftead of being thankful to God for my deliverance, 
Jiaving firft vomited with the great quantity of fait 
water which was gotten into my ftomach, and 
fecoyering myfeif a little, I ran about the fliore^ 

Q 3 wringing 



86 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

wringing my hands, and beating my head and face, 
exclaiming at my mifery, and crying out, I was 
undone, undone ; till tired and faint I was forced to 
lie down on the ground to repofe, but durft not fleep 
for fear of being devoured. 

Some days after this, and after I had been on 
board the fliip, and got all that I could out of her, 
yet I could not forbear getting up to the top of a 
, little mountain, and looking out to fea in hopes of 
feeing a fhip ; then fancy at a vaft diftance I fpied a 
fail ; pleafe myfelf with the hopes cf it ; and then 
after looking fteadily till I was almoft blind, lofe it 
quite, and fit down and weep like a child, and thus 
encreafe my mifery by my folly. 

But having gotten over thefe things in fome 
meafure, and having fettled my houlhold-fluff and 
habitation, made me a table and a chair, and all 
as handfome about me as I could, I began to keep 
my journal, of which I fliall here give you the copy, 
(though in it will be told all thefe particulars over 
again) as long as it lafted j for having no more inki 
I was forced to leave it off. 

The journal. 

September 30, 1659^ 

I POOR miitrdhl^RobinfonCrufoe^ being IMpwrecked, 
during a dreadful ftorm, in the ofBng, came on 
fhore on this difmal unfortunate ifland, which I called 
ihe^ JJland of Defpair^ all the reft of the fhip's com- 
pany being drowned, and myfelf almoft dead. 

All the reft of that day I fpent in afflifting myfelf 
at the difmal circuraitances I w^s brought to, ^♦/%, I 

had 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. SjT 

had neither food, houfe, cloaths, weapon, or place 
to fly to, and in defpair of sftiy relief, faw nothing 
but death before me, either that I fhould be devoured 
by wild beafts, murthered by favages, or ftarved to 
death for want of food. At the approach of night 
I flept in a tree, for fear of wild creatures, but flept 
foundly though it rained all night. 

06lob€r I. In the morning I faw to my great 
furprife the fliip had floated with the high tide, and 
was driven on fliore again much nearer the ifland, 
which as it was fome comfort on one hand, for feeing 
her fit upright, and not broken to pieces, I hoped, 
if the wind abated, I might get on board, and get 
fome food and neceflaries out of her for my relief j 
foon the other hand, it renewed my grief at the lofs 
of my comrades, who I imagined if we had all ftaid 
on board might have faved the fliip, or at leafl: that 
they would not have been all drowned^ as they were ; 
and that, had the men been faved, we might perhaps 
have built us a boat out of the ruins of the fhip, to 
have carried us to fome other part of the world. I 
fpent great part of this day in perplexing myfelf on 
thefe things ; but at length, feeing the fliip almoft dry, 
I went upon the fand as near as I could, and then 
fwam on board ; this day alfo it continued raining, 
though with no wind at all. 

From the ifl: of Oaohcr to the 24th. All thefe 
days entirely fpent in many feveral voyages to 
get all I could out of the fhip, which I brought 
on fhore, every tide of flood, upon rafts. Much 
rain alfo in thefe days, though with fome intervals 
of fair w^eath^r ; but, it feems, this was the raii^y 
feafon. 

. G 4 ' oa. 10. 



*g8 • LIFE AND ADVENTURES , 

Od. 20. I overfet my raft, and all the goods \ 
had got up upon It ; *but being in flioal water, and 
the things being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of 
them when the tide was out. 

Od. 25. It rained all night and all day, with 
fome gufts of wind, during which time the fhip 
broke in pieces, the wind blowing a little harder 
than before, and was no more to be feen, except 
the wreck of her, and that only at low water. I 
fpent this day in covering and fecuring the goods 
which I had faved, that rain might not fpoil 
them. 

Od. 26. I walked about the fhore almoft all day, 
to find out a place to fix my habitation, greatly 
concerned to fecure myfelf from any attack in the 
night, either from wild beafts or men. Towards 
night I fixed upon a proper place under a rock, and 
marked out a femi-circle for my encampment, which 
I refolved to ftrengthen with a work, wall, or forti- 
fication made of double piles, lined within with cable, 
and v/ithout with turf. 

From the 26th to the 30th I worked very hard 
in carrying all my goods to my nev/ habitation, 
though fome part of the time it rained exceeding 
hard. 

The 31ft in the moining I went out into the 
ifland with my gun, to fee for fome food, and difcover 
the country ; when I killed a flie goat, and her kid 
followed me homg, which I afterwards killed alfo, 
becaufe it would not feed. 

November i . I fet up my tent under a rock, and lay 
there for the firft night, making it as large as I could 
y^ith ftakes driven in to fwing my hammock upon. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 89 

: Nov. 2. I fet up all my chefts and boards, and 
the pieces of timber which made my rafts, and with 
them formed a fence round me, a little within the 
place I had marked out for my fortification. 

Nov. 2)* I went out with my gun, and kille4 
two fowls like ducks, which were very good 
food. In the afternoon went to work to make me 
a table* 

Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times 
of work, of going out with my gun, time of fleep, 
and time of diverfion ; viz. every morning I walked 
x)ut with my gun for two or three hours, if it did not 
rain, then employed myfelf to work till about eleven 
o'clock, then eat what I had to live on, and from 
twelve to two I lay down to fleep, the weather being 
exceflive hot, and then in the evening to work 
again : the working part of this day and of the 
next were wholly employed in making my table, for 
I was yet but a very forry workman, though 
time and neceffity made me a compleat natural 
mechanick foon after, as I believe it would do any 
one elfe. 

Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my gun and 
my dog, and killed a wild cat, her fkin pretty foft, 
but her flefh good for nothing : every creature I 
killed I took off the fkins and preferved them. 
Coming back by the fea-fhore I faw many forts of 
fea-fowls, which I did not undcrftand ; but was 
furprized and almoft frighted with two or three 
feals, which', while I was gazing at, not well 
knowing what they were, got into the fea, and 
efcaped me for that time, 

Nov. 6. 



go LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

Nov. 6. After my morning walk I went to work 
with my table again, and finifhed it, though not to 
my liking ; nor was it long before I learned to 
mend it. 

Nov. 7. Now it began to be fettled fair weather. 
The 7th, 8th, 9th, loth, and part of the i2th, 
(for the I ith was Sunday J I took wholly up to make 
me a chair, and with much ado brought it to a tole- 
rable Ihape, but never to pleafe me; and even in 
the making I pulled it in pieces feveral times. 
Note^ I foon negleded my keeping Sundays, for 
omitting my mark for them on my poft, I forgot 
which was which. 

Nov. 13. This day it rained, which refrelhed me 
exceedingly, and cooled the earth, but it was accom^ 
panied with terrible thunder and lightning, which 
frighted me dreadfully for fear of my powder : as 
foon as it was over I refolved to feparate my flock of 
powder into as many little parcels as poffible, that it 
might not be in danger. 

Nov. 14, 15, 16. Thefe three days I fpent in 
making little fquare chefts or boxes, which might 
hold about a pound, or two pound, at moft, of 
powder ; and fo putting the powder in, I flowed it 
in places as fecure and remote from one another as 
pofTible. On one of thefe three days I killed a 
large bird that was good to eat, but I knew not 
what to call it. 

Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent 
into the rock, to make room for my farther conve- 
niency. Note, Three things I wanted exceedingly 
for this wcrk^ viz. a pick-axe, a fhovel, and a wheel- 

JDarrow 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 9,1 

barrow* or bafket, fo I defifted from my work, and 
began to confider how tp fupply that want, and make 
me fome tools : as for a pick-axe, I made ufe of the 
iron crows, which were proper enough, though 
heavy ; but the next thing was a fhovel or fpade ; 
this was fo abfolutely neceffary, that indeed I could 
do nothing eflfedlually without it ; but what kind of 
one to make I knew not. 

Nov. 18. The next day in fearching the woods I 
found a tree of that wood, or like it, which in 
the Brafils they call the Iron Tree^ for its exceeding 
hardnefs ; of this, with great labour and almoft 
fpoiling my axe, I cut a piece, and brought it 
home too with difficulty enough, for it was exceeding 
heavy. 

The exceffive hardnefs of the wood, and having 
no other way, made me a long while upon this 
machine; for I worked it effectually by little and 
liitle into the form of a fhovel or fpade, the handle 
exaftly fhaped like ours in England^ only that the 
broad part having no iron Ihod upon it at bottom, it 
would not laft me fo long ; however it ferved well 
enough for the ufes which I had occafion to put it to ; 
but never was a fhovel, I believe, made after that 
fafhion, or fo long a making. 

I was flill deficient, for I wanted a bafket or a 
wheel-barrow ; a bafket I could not make by any 
means, having no fuch things as twigs that would 
bend to make wicker ware, at leafl none yet found 
out ; and as to a wheel-barrow, I fancied I could 
make all but the wheel, but that I had no notion of, 
neither did I know how to go about it ; befides I 
bad no pofnble way to make the iron gudgeons for 

the 



92 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

the fpindle or axis of the wheel to run in, fo I gave 
it over ; and fo for carrying away the earth which I 
dug out of the cave, I made me a thing like a hodd 
which the labourers carry mortar in, when they 
ferve the bricklayers. 

This was not fo difficult to me as the making the 
{hovel ; and yet this, and the (hovel, and the attempt 
which I made in vain to make a wheelbarrow, took 
me up no lefs than four days, I mean always, except, 
ing my morning walk with my gun, which I feldom 
failed ; and very feldom failed alfo bringing hom€ 
fomething to eat. 

Nov. 23. My other work having now flood ftill, 
becaufe of my making thefe tools, when they were 
finifhed I went on, and working every day, as my 
ftrength and tim.e allowed, I fpent eighteen days 
entirely in widening and deepening my cave, that it 
might hold my goods commodioufly. 

Note^ During all this time, I worked to make this 
room or cave fpacious enough to accommodate me 
as a warehoufe or magazine, a kitchen, a dining^ 
room, and a cellar ; as for my lodging, I kept to the 
tent, except that fome times in the wet feafon of the 
year, it rained fo hard that I could not keep myfelf 
dry, which caufed me afterwards to cover all my 
place within my pale with long poles in the form of 
rafters, leaning againft the rock, and load them with 
flags and large leaves of trees like a thatch. 

December i o. I began now to think my cave or 
vault finifhed, when on a fudden (it feems I had 
made it too large) a gieat quantity of earth fell down 
from the top and one fide, fo much that in fhort it' 
frighted me, and iiot without re^fon top 5 fgr if I had 



OF ROBINSO^ CRUSOE. p^ 

b^en under it I had nevet- wanted a grave-digger i 
upon this difafter I had a great deal of, work to do 
over again 5 for I had the loofe earth to carry out, 
and, which was of more importance, I had the cieling 
to prop up, fo that I might be fure no more would 
come down* 

Dec^ 1 1 . This day I went to work with it accord- 
ingly, and got two fliores or pofts pitched upright to 
the top, with two pieces of boards a-crofs over each 
poft ^ this I finiflied the next day ; and fetting more 
pofts up with boards, in about a week more Ihad 
the roof fecured ; and the pofts, ftanding in rows, 
ferved me for partitions to part off my horfe. 

Dec. 17. From this day to the twentieth I placed 
fhelves, and knocked up nails on the pofts to hang 
every thing up that could be hung up, and now I 
began to be in fome order within doors. 

Dec. 10. Now I carried every thing into the^cave, 

and began to furnifh my houfe, and fet up fome 

pieces of boards, like a dreffer, to order my viftuals 

. upon, but boards began to be very fcarce with me ; 

alfal made me another table. 

Dec. 24. Much rain all night and all day; no 
ftirring out. 

Dec. 25. Rain all day. 

Dec. 26. No rain, and the earth much cooler than 
before, and plcafanter. 

Dec. 27. Killed a young goat, and lamed another, 
fo that I caught it, and led it home in a ftring ; when 
I had it home, I bound and fplintered up^ its leg, 
which was broke. N. B. I took fuch care of it, 
that it lived, and the leg grew well and as ftrong as 
ever ; but by nurfing it fo long it grew tame, and 

fed 



94 t.IFE AND ADVENTURES 

fed upon the little green at my door, and would not 
go away : this was the firft time that I entertained a 
thought of breeding up fome tame creatures, that 
I might have food when my powder and fhot was 
all fpent. 

Dec. 28, 29, 30. Great heats and no breeze ; 
fo that there was no ftirring abroad, except in the 
evening for food ; this time I fpent in putting all my 
things in order within doors. 

January i. Very hot ftill, but I went abroad early 
and late with my gun, and lay ftill in the middle of 
the day. This evening, going farther into the 
valleys, which lay towards the center of the ifland, 
I found there was plenty of goats, though exceeding 
fhy and hard to come at ; however I refolved to try 
if I could not bring my dog to hunt them down. 

Jan. 2. Accordingly, the next day, I went out 
with my dog, and fet him upon the goats ; but I was 
miftaken, for they all faced about upon the dog ; and 
he knew his danger too well, for he would not come 
near them. 

Jan. 3. I began my fence or wall ; which, being 
ftill jealous of my being attacked by fome body, | 
refolved to make very thick and ftrong. 

N. B. This wall being defcribed before^ I 
purpofely omit what was /aid in the Journal ; 
it is fufficient to obferve^ that I was no lefs 
time than from the yl of January to the 1 4/A 
of April, workings finijhing^ and perfeSling 
this wall^ though it was no more than about 
24. yards in lengthy being a half circle from 
one place in the rock to another place about 
eight yards from it^ the door of the cave being 
in the center behind it. 

All 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 95 

All this time I worked very hard, the rains 
hindering me many days, nay, fometimes weeks 
together ; but I thought I fhould never be perfedly 
fecure until this wall was finifhed ; and it is fcarce 
credible what inexpreflible labour every thing was 
done with, efpecially the bringing piles out of the 
woods, and driving them into the ground, for I 
made them much bigger than I need to have done. 

When this wall was finilhed, and the out-fide 
double fenced with a turf-wall raifed up clofe to it, 
I perfuaded myfelf that if any people were to come 
on fliore there, they would not perceive any thing 
like a habitation ; and it was very well I did fo, as may 
be obferved hereafter upon a very remarkable occafion. 

During this time I made my rounds in the woods 
for game every day, when the rain admitted me, and 
made frequent difcoveries in thefe walks of fomething 
or other to my advantage ; particularly I found a 
kind of wild pigeons, who built not as wood 
pigeons in a tree, but rather as houfe pigeons, in 
the holes of the rocks ; and taking fome young ones, 
I endeavoured to breed them up tame, and did fo ; 
but when they gre\v older they flew away, which 
perhaps was at firft for want of feeding them, for I 
had nothing to give them ; however I frequently 
found their nefts, and got their young ones, which 
were very good meat. 

And now, in the .managing my houfliold affairs, I 
found myfelf wanting in many things, w^hich I 
thought at firft it was impoflible for me to ..make, as 
indeed as to fome of them it was ; for inftance, I 
could never make a calk to be hooped ; I had. a fmall 
runlet or two, as I obferved before, but I could never 

arrive 



if6 IIFE ANI> ADVENTURES 

arrive to the capacity of making one by therfi, though 
I fpent many weeks about it ; I could neither put in 
the heads, or joint the ftaves fo true to one another 
as to make thera hold water, fo I gave that alfo over. 

In the next place, I was at a great lofs for candle ; 
fo that as foon as ever it was dark, which was gene- 
rally by feven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed : I 
remembered the lump of bees- wax with which I made 
candles in my African adventure, but I bad none of 
that now ; the only remedy I had, was, that when I 
had killed a goat I faved the tallow, and with a little 
di{h made of clay, which I baked in the fun, to which 
I added a wick of fome oakum j I made me a lamp ; 
and this gave me light, though not a clear fteady 
light like a candle ; in the middle of all my labours 
it happened, that r-ummaging my things, I found ar 
little bag, which, as 1 hinted befote, had been filled 
with corn for the feeding of poultry, not for this 
voyage, but before, as I fuppofe, when the fhip' 
came from Lijbon; what little remainder of corn had 
been in the bag, was all devoured with the rats, and 
I faw nothing in the bag but hufks and duft ; and 
being willing to have tlie bag for fome other ufe, I 
think it was to put powder in, when I divided it for 
fear of the lightning, or fome fuch ufe, I fhook the^ 
hu&s of corn out of it on one fide of my fortificatioa 
under the rock. ' 

It was a little before the great rains, juft now men- 
tioned, that I threw this ftuff away, taking no notice 
of any thing, and not fo much as remembering that I 
had thrown any thing there ; when about a month 
after^ or thereabout, I faw fome few ftalks of fome- 
thing green Ihooting out of the ground, which I 

fancied 



bF kbBiNsok cRusoE# 97 

fthcled might be fome plant I had not feen, but I 
Was furprized and perfeftly aftonifhed, when after a 
little longer time I faw about ten or twelve ears 
come out, which were perfect green barley of the 
fame kind as our European^ nay, as our Englijh 
barley* 

It IS impoflible to exprefs the aftonifhment and 
confufion of my thoughts on this occafion ; I had 
hitherto afted upon no religious foundation at all ; 
indeed I had very few notions of religion in my 
head, or had entertained any fenfe of any thing that 
had befallen me, otherwife than as a chance, or, as 
we lightly fay, what pleafes God ; without fo much 
as enquiring into the end of Providence in thefe. 
things, or his order in governing events in the world \ 
but after I faw barley grow there, in a climate which 
I knew was not proper for corn, and efpecially that 
I knew not how it came there, it ftartled me 
ftrangely, and I began to fuggeft, that God had mira^ 
culoufly caufed this grain to grow without any help 
of feed fown, and that it was fo diteded purely for* 
my fuftenance on that wild miferable place* 

This touched my heart a little, and brought tears 
out of my eyes, and I began to blefs myfelf, that 
fuch a prodigy of nature Ihould happen upon my 
account; and this was the more ftrange to me, 
becaufel faw near it ftill, all along by the fide of the 
rock, fpme other ftragling ftalks, which proved to 
be ftalks of rice, and which I knew, becaufe I had 
feen it grow in Africa^ when I was afhore there, 

I not only thought thefe the pure produftions of 
^Providence for my fupport, but not doubting but 
that there was more in the place, I went all pver 

Vol. !• H that 



98 LIFE AND ADVEfs^tUJll:^ 

that part of the ifland, where! had been before, peeping 
in every corner artd under evefy rock to fee for more 
of It, but I could not find any ; at laft it occurred 
to my thought, that I had fliook a bag of chickens meat 
out in that place, an<i then the wonder began to ceafe ; 
and I mufl: confefs, my religious thankfulnefs to God^& 
providence *begail to abate too upon difcovering 
that all this was nothing' bivt what was common ; 
though I ought to liave been as thankful for fa 
flrange and unforefeen a providence a^ if it had been 
miraculous ; for it was really the work of Providence 
as to me!, that fhould order or appoint i o or 12 
grains of corn to remain unfpoiled, when the rats 
had dellroycd all the reft, as if it had been dropt 
from heaven : as alfo, that I fhould throw it out in 
that particular place, where, it being in the fhade of 
a high rock, it fprang up immediately ; whereas if I 
had thrown it any where elfe at that time, it had been 
burnt up and deftroyed. 

I carefully faved the ears of corn, yon may be 
fure, in their feafon, which was about the end of 
Junc^ and laying up every corn, I refolved to fow 
them all again, hoping in time to have fonie quantity 
fuffieient to.fupply me with bread ; but it was not till 
the fourth year that I could allow myfelf the leaft grain 
of this corn to eat, and even then but fparingly, as I 
fliall fav afterwards in its order ; for I loft all that I 
fowed the firft feafon, by not obfcrving the proper 
time ; for I fowed it juft before the dry feafon, {o 
that it never came up at all, at leaft not as it would 
have done : of which in its place. 

Befides this barley, there were, as above, 20 or 30. 
ftalks of rice, which I preferved with the fame care, 

and 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* 99 

find whofe ufe was of the fame kind or to the fame 
purpofe, VIZ; To make me bread, or rather food ; 
for I found ways to cook it up without baking, though 
I did that alfo after fome time* But to return to 
my journaL 

I worked exceffive hard thefe three or four months 
to get my wall done ; and the 14th of April I clofed 
it up, contriving to go into it, not by a door, but 
over the wall by a ladder, that there might be no 
fign in the outfide of my habitation, 

April 1 6. I finifhed the ladder, fo I went up with 
the ladder to the top, and then pulled it up after me, 
and let it down on the infide : this was a compleat 
enclofure to me ; for within I had room enough, and 
nothing could come at me from without, unlefs it 
could firft mount my wall. 

The vet-y next day after this wall was finifhed, I 
had almoft had all my labour overthrown at once, 
and myfelf killed ; the cafe was thus: Aslwasbufy 
in the infide of it, behind my tent, juft in the 
entrance into my cave, I was terribly frighted with a 
moft dreadful furprizing thing indeed; for on a 
fudden I found the earth come crumbling down from 
the roof of my cave, and from the edge of thehill, 
over my head, and two of the poflis I had fet up iri 
the cave cracked in a frightful manner: I was 
heartily feared, but thought nothing of what was 
really the caufe, only thinking that the top of my 
cave was falling in, as fome of it had done before ; 
and for fear I Ihould be buried in it, I ran forward 
to my ladder, and not thinking myfelf fafe there 
neither, I got over my wall for fear of the pieces of 
the hill which I expefted might roll down upon me : 
li 2 I was 



7r3^1'>.^\ 



loo LIFE AlTD ADVENTURES 

I was no fooner flept down upon the firm ground, 
but I plainly faw it was a terrible earthquake, for the 
ground I flood on fhook three times at about eight 
minutes diftance, with three fuch fliocks, as would 
have overturned the ftrongeft building that could be 
fuppofed to have ftodd on the earth ; and a great 
piece of the top of a rock, which ftood about half a 
mile from me next the fea, fell down with fuch a 
terrible noife as I never heard in all my life : I per- 
ceived alfo the very fea was put into violentjnotioix 
by it ; and I believe the fhocks were ftronger under 
the water than on the ifland. 

I was fo amazed with the thing itfelf, having never 
felt the like, or difcourfed with any one that had, 
that I was like one dead or ftupified ; and the motion 
of the earth made my ftomach fick, like one that was 
tofled at fea ; but the noife of the falling of the rock 
awaked me, as it were, and rouzing me from the 
ftupified condition I was in, filled me with horror, 
and r thought of nothing then but the hill falling 
upon my tent, and all my houfliold goods, and 
burying all at once ; and this funk my very foul 
within me a fecond time. 

After the third fhock was over, and I felt no more 
for fome time, I began to take courage, and yet I had 
not heart enough to get over my wall again, for fear 
of being buried alive, but fat ftill upon the ground, 
greatly caft down and difconfolate, not knowing 
what to do : all this while I had not the leaft ferious 
religious thought, nothing but the common, Lcr^ 
have mercy upon me ; and when it was over, that 
went away too. 

While 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* lOI 

While I fat thus, I found the air over-caft, and 
grow cloudy, as if it would rain ; foon after that 
the wind jok by little and little, fo that in lefs than 
half an hour it blew a moft dreadful hurricane : the 
fea was all on a fudden covered over with foarn and 
froth, the fliore was covered with the breach of 
the water, the trees were torn up by the roots, 
and a terrible ftorm it was ; and this held about 
three hours, and then began to abate, and in two 
hours more it was ftark calm, and began to rain 
very hard. 

All this while I fat upon the ground, very much 
terrified and dejefted, when on a fudden it came 
into my thoughts, that thefe winds and rain being 
the confequence of the earthquake, the earthquake 
itfelf was fpent and over, and I might venture into 
my cave again : with this thought my fpirits began 
to revive, and the rain alfo helping to perfuade me, 
I went in and fat down in my tent, but the rain was 
fo violent, that my tent was ready to be beaten down 
with it ; and I was forced to go into my cave, 
though very much afraid and uneafy, for fear it fliould 
fall on my head. 

This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz, 
to cut a hole through my new fortification like a fink, 
to let water go out, which would elfe have drowned 
my cave. After I had been in my cave fome time, and 
found ftill no more ihocks of the earthquake follow, 
I began to be more compofed ; and now, to fupport 
my fpirits, which indeed wanted it very much, I 
went to my little ftore, and took a fmall fup of rum, 
which however I did then and always very fparingly, 
knowing I could have no more when that was gone. 

H % It 



102 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

It continued raining all that night, and great part 
of the next day, fo that I could not ftir abroad ; but 
my mind being more compofed, I began to think of 
what I had bell do, concluding, that if the ifland 
was fubjeft to thefe earthquakes, there would be no 
living for me in a cave, but I muft confider ofbuildr 
ing me fome little hut in an open place, which I 
might furround with a wall as I had done here, and 
fo make myfelf fecure from wild beads or men : but 
concluded, if I ftaid where I was, I fhquld certainly, 
one time or other, be buried alive. 

With thefe thoughts I refolv^d to remove my tent 
from the place where it flood, which was juft under 
the hanging precipice of the hill, and which, if it; 
fhould be fhaken again, would certainly fall upon my 
tent : and I fpent the two next days, being the 1 9th 
and 20th of Aprily in contriving where and how to 
remove my habitation. 

The fear of being fwallowed up alive, made me 
that I never flept in quiet, and yet the apprehenfion 
of lying abroad without any fence was almoft equal 
to it ; but ftill, when I looked about and faw how 
every thing was put in order, how pleafantly con-, 
cealed I v^as, and how fafe from danger, it made 
nje very loth to remove. 

In the mean time it occurred to me that it would 
require a vafl deal of -time for me to do this, and that 
I muft be CQntente4 to ri|n the venture where I was, 
till I had formed a camp for myfelf, and had fecured 
it fo as tp remove to it : fo with this refplution I 
compofed tnyfelf for a time, and refolved that I would 
go to work with all fpeed to build me a wall with piles 
and cables, ^c. in a circle as before j and fet my 

tent 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. JOJ 

tent up in it when it was finifhed, but that I would 
venture to flay where I was till it was finiflied and fit 
to remove to. This was the 21 ft, 

April 22. The next morning I began to confider 
of means to put this refolve in execution, but I was 
at -a great lofs about my tools ; I had thre,e large 
axes and abundance of hatchets, (for we carried the 
hatchets for traffick with the Indians) but with much 
chopping and cutting loiotty hard wood, they were 
all full of notches and dull, and though I had a grind- 
ftone, I could not turn it and grind my tools too ; " 
this cofl me as much thought as a flatefman would 
have bellowed upon a graixd point of politicks, or a 
judge upon the life and death of a man. At length 
I contrived a wheel with a flringj, to turn it with my 
foot, that I might have both my hands at liberty : 
Notc^ I had never feen any fuch tjiing in England^ or 
at lead not to take notice how it was don(2, though 
fince I have obftrved it is very common there ; 
befides that, my grind-ilone was very large and 
heavy. This machine coit m^ a full vv^eek's Vi'ork to 
bring it to perfedion. 

April 28, 29. Thefe two whole days I took up 
in grinding my tools, my machine for turning my 
grind-flone performing very well. 

April 30* Having perceived ray bread had been 
lov/ a great while^ now I took a furvey of it, and 
reduced myfelf to one bifcuit-cake a day, which 
made my heart very heavy, 

May I. In the morning, looking tov>^ards the fea- 
fide, the tide being low, I fav/ fomething lie on the 
ihore bigger than ojdinary ; and it looked like a cafk ; 
when I came to it, I found a Ihiall barrel, and two 

H 4 ^ or 



104 X-IFE AND ADVENTURES 

or three pieces of the wreck of the Ihip ; which 
were driven on fhore by the late hurricane ; 
and looking towards the wreck itfelf, I thought it 
feemed to lie higher out of the water than it ufed to 
do : I examined the barrel which was driven on 
fliore, and foon found it was a barrel of gunpowder, 
but it had taken water, and the powder was caked 
as hard as a ftone; however I rolled it farther on fhore 
for the prefent, and went on upon the fands as near as 
I could to the wreck of the fliip, to look for more. 

When I came down to the fliip, I found it ftrangely 
removed ; the fore-caflle, which lay before buried 
in fand, was heaved up at lead fix foot ; and the 
ftern, which was broke to pieces, and parted frorn 
the reft by the force of the fea, foon after I had left 
rummaging her, was toffed, as it were^ up, and caft 
on one fide, and the fand was thrown fo high on 
that fide next her ftern, that whereas there was a 
great place of water before, fo that I could not come 
within a quarter of a mile of the wreck without 
fwimming, I could now walk quite up to her when 
the tide was out ; I was furprized with this at firft, 
but foon concluded it muft be done by the earth- 
quake : and as by this violence the ftiip was more 
broken open than formerly, fo many things came 
daily on ftiore, which the fea had loofened, and which 
the winds and water rolled by degrees to the land. 

This wholly diverted my thoughts from the defign 
of removing my habitation; and I bufied myfelf 
mightily that day efpecially, in fearching whether I 
could make any way into the ftiip ; but I found 
nothing was to be expefted of that kind, for that 
all the infide of the ftiip was choaked up with fand : 

however, 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. I05 

however, as I had learnt not to defpair of any thing, 
I refolved to pull every thing to pieces that I could 
of the flilp, concluding, that every thing I could get 
from her would be of fome ufe or other to me. 

May 3. I began with my faw, and cut a piece of a 
beam through, which I thought held fome of the 
upper part or quarter-deck together, and when I had 
cut it through, I cleared away the fand as well as I 
could from the fide which lay higheft; but the 
tide coming in, I was obliged to give over for 
that time. 

May 4. I went a fifliing, but caught not one fijfh 
that I durfl eat of, till I was weary of my fport ; when 
juft going to leave off, I caught a young dolphin. I 
had made me a long Une of fome rope-yarn, but I had 
no hooks, yet I frequently caught fifh enough, as 
much as I cared to eat ; all which I dried in the fun^ 
and eat them dry. 

May 5. Worked on the wreck, cut another beam 
afunder, and brought three great fir planks off from 
the decks, which I tied together, and made fwim 
on fliore when the tide of flood came on. ^ 

May 6. Worked on the wreck, got feveral iron 
holts out of her, and other pieces of iron-work, 
worked very hard, and came home very much tiredj^ 
^nd had thoughts of giving it over. 

May 7. Went to the wreck again, but with an 
intent not to work, but found the weight of the 
wreck had broke itfelf down, the beams being cut, 
that feveral pieces of the fhip feemed to lie loofe, 
and the infide of the hold lay fo open, that I could 
fee into it, but almoft full of water and fand. 

May 8. 



I06 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron 
crow to wrench up the deck, which lay now 
quite clear of the water or fand ; I wrenched open 
two planks, and brought them on fliore alfo with 
the tide : 1 left the iron crow in the wreck for 
next day. 

May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow 
made way into the body of the wreck, and felt 
feveral cafks, and loofened them with the crow, 
but could not break them up ; I felt alfo the roll of 
Englijh lead, and could ftir it, but it was too heavy 
to remove. 

May 10, II, 12, 13, 14. Went every day to the 
wreck, and got a great many pieces of timber, 
and boards, or plank, and 2 or. 300 weight of 
iron. 

May 15. I carried two hatchets, to try if I 
could not cut a piece off the roll of lead, by 
placing the edge of one hatchet, and driving it 
with the other ; but as it lay about a foot and a half 
in the water, I could not make any blow to drive 
the hatchet. 

May 16. It had bio wed hard in the night, and 
the wreck appeared more broken by the force of the 
water; but I (laid fo long in the woods to get 
pigeons for food, that the tide prevented me going 
to the wreck that dav. 

May 1 7. I faw fome pieces of the wreck blown 
on fhore, at a great diftance, near two miles off" 
me, but refolved to fee what they were, and found 
it was a piece of the head, but too heavy for me to 
tring aw^y. 

May 24. 






OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, I07 

May 24. Every day to this day I worked on the 
wreck, and with hard labour I loofened fome things 
fo much with the crow, that the firfl: blowing tide 
feveral cafks floated out, and two of the feamen's 
chefts ; but the wind blowing from the fhore, 
nothing came to land that day but pieces of 
timber, and a hogfhead, which had fome Bra-zdl 
pork in it, but the fait- water and the fand had 
fpoiled it. 

I continued this work every day to the 15th of 
^une^ except the time necelTary to get food, which 
I always appointed, during this part of my employ- 
ment, to be when the tide was up, that I might be 
ready when it was ebbed out ; and by this time I 
had gotten timber, and plank, and iion-wprk enough 
to have built a good boat, if I had Icnown how ^ and 
alfo, I got at feveral times, and in feveral pieces, 
near 100 weight of the fheet-lead, 

^um 16. Going dov/n to the fea-fide, I found a 
large tortoife or turtle ; this was the firft I had feen, 
which it feems was only my misfortune, not any 
defect of the place, or fcarcity ; for had I happened 
to be on the other fide of the illand, I might have 
had hundreds of them every day, as I found 
afterwards ; but perhaps had paid dear enough for 
them. 

^une 17 I fpent in cooking the turtle; I found 
in her threefcore eggs ; and her flefh was to me at 
that time the moft favoury and pleafant that ever 
I tafted in my life, having had no flefli, but of 
goats and fowls, fince I landed in this horrid 
place. 

"yune 18. 



Io8 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

yune 1 8. Rained all day, and I flayed within. I 
thought at this time the rain felt cold, and I was 
fomething chilly, which I knew was not ufual in 
that latitude. 

"Jujie 19. Very ill, and fhivering, as if the weather 
had been cold. 

^June 23. No reft all night, violent pains in my 
head, and feverifh. 

yune 21. Very ill, frighted almoft to death with 
the apprehenfions of my fad condition, to be fick, 
and no help : Prayed to God for the firft time 
fmce the ftorm off Hull^ but fcarce knew what I 
faid, or why ; my thoughts being all confufed. 

yune 22. A little better, but under dreadful 
apprehenfions of ficknefs. 

yune 23. Very bad again, cold and fliivering, and 
then a violent head-ach. 

yune 24. Much better. 

yune 25. An ague very violent ; the fit held me 
feyen hours, cold fit and hot, with faint fweats 
after it. 

yune 26. Bettter ; and having no viftuals to eat, 
took my gun, but found myfelf very weak ; however 
I killed a fhe-goat, and with much difficulty got 
it home, and broiled fome of it, and eat ; I would 
fain have fie wed it, and made fome broth, but had 
no pot. 

yune 27. The ague again fo violent, that I lay 
a-bed all day, and neither eat or drank. I was ready 
to perifh for thjrfl, but fo weak I had not flrength 
to fland up, or to get myfelf any water to drink : 
prayed to God again, but was light-headed y and 

"whea 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, IC^ 

when I was not I was fo ignorant, that I knew not 
what to fay ; only I lay and cried, Lord Icok upon me ; 
Lord pity me ; Lord have mercy upon me : I fuppofe 
I did nothing elfe for two or three hours, till the fit 
wearing off, I fell afleep, and did not wake till far ia 
the night ; when I waked, I found myfelf much 
refreflied, but weak, and exceeding thirfly: how- 
ever, as I had no water in my whole habitation, 
I was forced to lie till morning, and went ta 
fleep again : In this fecond fleep I had this terrible 
dream. 

I thought that I was fitting on the ground on 
the out-fide of my wall, where I fat when the ftorni 
blew after the earthquake, and that I faw a m^sm 
defcend from a great black cloud, in a bright fiame 
of fire, and light upon the ground : He was all over 
as bright as a flame, fo that I could but juft bear to 
look towards him ; his countenance was moft inex^ 
preflibly dreadful, impofUble for words to defcribe ; 
when he ftepped upon the ground with his feet 
I thought the earth trembled, juft as it had done 
before in the earthquake, and all the air looked to 
my apprehenfion as if it had been filled with flaflies 
of fire. 

He was no fooner landed upon the earth, but he 
moved forward towards me, with a long fpear or 
weapon in his hand to kill me ; and when he came 
to a rifing ground, at fome diftance, he fpoke to 
me, or I heard a voice fo terrible, that it is impoffible 
to exprefs the terror of it ; all that I can fay I 
underftood v/as this. Seeing all ibefc things have not 
brought thee to repentance^ now thou JJjali die : at 

which 



IIO LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

-which words I thought he lifted up the fpear that 
was in his hand to kill me. 

No one, that (hall ever read this account, will 
cxpcd that I Ihould be able to defcribe the horrors 
of my foul at this terrible vifion ; I mean, that even 
while it was a dream, I even dreamed of thofe 
horrors ; nor is it any more pofTible to defcribe the 
impreflion that remained up6n my mind, when I 
awaked, and found it was but a dream. 

I had, alas ! no divine knowledge; what I had 
received by the good inftruftion of my father was 
then worn out by an uninterrupted feries, for eight 
years,, of feafaring wickednefs, and a conftanf 
converfation with nothing but fuch as were like 
myfslf, wicked and prophane to the laft degree i 
I do not remember that I had in all that time one 
thought that fo much as tended either to looking 
upwards toward God, or inwards towards a refleftion 
upon my own ways ; but a certain ftupidity of foul, 
without defire of good, or confcience of evil, had 
entirely overwhelmed me, and I was all that the moft 
hardened, unthinking, wicked creature among our 
common failors can be fuppofed to be, not having 
the leaft fenfe, either of the fear of God in danger, or 
of thankfulnefs to God in deliverances. 

In the relating what is already paft of my ftory, 
this will be the more eafily believed, when I Ihall 
add, that through all the variety of miferies that 
had to this day befalleri me, I never had fo much 
as one thought of it being the hand of God, or 
tl^at it was a juft punilhment for my fin, my 
rebellious behaviour againft my father, or my 

prefent 



OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. lit 

prefent fins, which were great ; or fo much as a 
punifliment for the general courfe of my wicked 
life. When I was on the defperate expedition on 
the defart fhores oi Africa^ I never had fo much as 
one thought of what would become of me ; or one 
wifli to God to diredt me whither I Ihould go, or 
to keep me from the danger which apparently 
furrounded me, as well from voracious creatures as 
cruel favages : but I was meerly thoughtlefs of a 
God, or a Providence, afted like a meer brute from 
the principles of nature, and by the didates of com- 
mon fenfe only, and indeed hardly that. 

When I was delivered, and taken up at fea by the 
Portugal captain, well ufed, and dealt juftly and 
honourably with, as well as charitably, I had not the 
lead thankfulnefs on my thoughts : when again I 
was fhipwrecked, ruined, and in danger of drowning 
on tliis ifland, I was as far from remorfe^ or looking 
on it as a judgment ; I only faid to myfelf often, 
that I was an unfortunate dog^ and born to be always 
miferable. 

It is true, when I got on fhore firft here, and 
found all my Ihip's crew drowned, and myfelf 
fpared, I was furprized with a kind of extafy, and 
feme tranfports of foul, which, had the grace of 
God affifted, might have come up to true thank- 
fulnefs ; but it ended where it begun, in a meer 
common flight of joy, or, as I may fay, being glad 
I was Mve^ without the ,leaft refiedion upon the 
diftinguifliing goodnefs of the hand which had 
preferved me, and had fmgled me out to be pre- 
ferved, when all the reft were deftroyed ; or an 
inquiry why Providence had been thus merciful to 

me; 



112 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

me ; even juft the fame common fort of joy which 
feamen generally have, after they have got fafe 
on fhore from a fhipwreck, which they drown all in 
the next bowl of punch, and forget almoft as 
foon as it is over ; and all the reft of my life was- 
like it. 

Even when I was afterwards, on due coniidera, 
tion, made fenlible of my condition, how I was 
caft on this dreadful place, out of the reach of^ 
human kind, out of all hope of relief, or profpeft of 
redemption, as foon as I faw but a profped of living, 
and that I fhould not ftarve and perifh for hunger, 
all the fenfe of my affliftion wore off, and I began 
to be very eafy, applied myfelf to the works proper 
for my prefer vation and fupply, and was far enough 
from being afflifted at my condition, as a judgment 
from heaven, or as the hand of God againft me* 
thefe were thoughts which very feldom entered inta 
my head. 

The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my 
journal, had at firft fome little influence upon me^ 
and began to aflfeft me with ferioufnefs, as long as I 
thought it had fomething miraculous in it ; but as 
foon as ever that part of thought was removed, all 
the impreffion which was raifed from it wore oiF 
alfo, as I have noted already. 

Even the earthquake, though nothing could be 
more terrible in its nature, or more immediately 
directing to the invifible power, which alone direfts^ 
fuch things ; yet no fooner was the firft fright over,, 
but the impreflion it had made went off alfo. I 
had no more fenfe of God, or his judgments, much- 
lefs of the prefent afilidion of my circumftances being 

from 



OF kOBINSON CRUSOE. 11^ 

from his hand, than if I had been in the nioft 
profperous condition of life. 

But now, when I began to be fick, and a leifurely 
view of the miferies of death came to place itfelf 
before me ; when my fpirits began to fink under the 
burden of a ftrong diftemper, and nature was 
exhaufted with the violence of the fever; confcience, 
that had flept fo long, began to awake, and I began 
to reproach myfelf with my pafl life, in which I 
had fo evidently, by uncommon wickednefs, pro- 
voked the juftice of God to lay me under 
uncommon ftrokes, and to deal with me in fo 
vindiftive a manner. 

Thefe reflections oppreffed me from the fecond or 
third day of my diftemper, and in the violence, as 
well of the fever as of the dreadful reproaches of my 
confcience, extorted fome words from me, like 
praying to God, though I cannot fay they were 
' either a prayer attended with defires, or with hopes ; 
it was rather the voice of mere fright and diftrefs ; 
my thoughts were confufed, the conviftions great 
' upon my mind, and the horror of dying in fuch a 
miferable condition, raifed vapours into my head 
with the mere apprehenfions ; and, in thefe hurries 
of my foul, I knew not what my tongue might 
exprefs : But it was rather exclamation, fucfh as. 
Lord ! what a miferable creature am 1 ! If I fhould 
be fick, I fhall certainly die for want of help, and 
what will become of me! Then the tears burft 
out of my eyes, and I could fay no more for a 
good while. 

In this interval, the good advice of my father 
came to my mind, and prefently his pr-ediftion. 

Vol. L I which 



114 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

which I mentioned in the beginning of this ftory ; 
viz. That if I did take this foolifh ftep, God would 
not blefs me, and I would have leifure hereafter to 
refleft upon having neglefted his counfel, when 
there might be none to aflift in my recovery. 
Now, faid I aloud, my dear father's words are come 
to pafs : God's juftice has overtaken me, and I have 
none to help or hear me : I rejefted the voice of 
Providence, which had mercifully put me in a pofture 
or ftation of life wherein I might have been happy 
and eafy; but I would neither fee it myfelf, nor 
learn to know the bleffing of it from my parents ; 
I left them to mourn over my folly, and now I am 
left to mourn undet the confequcnces of it : I refufed 
their help and afliftande, who would have lifted me 
into the world, and would have made every thing 
eafy to me ; and. now I have difEcultics to ftruggle 
with, too great for even nature itfelf to fupport, 
and no afliftance, no help, no comfort, no advice. 
Then I cried out. Lord, be my help, for I am in 
great diftrels. : 

This was the firft prayer, if I might call it fo, 
that I had made for many years. But I return to 
my journal. 

June 28. Having been fomewhat refreflied with 
the fleep I had had, and the fit being entirely off, I 
got up : and though the fright and terror of my 
dream was very great, yet I confidered, that the fit 
of the ague would return again the next day, and 
now was my time to get fomething to refrefh and 
fupport myfelf when I fhould be ill ; and the firft 
thing I did, I filled a large fquare cafe bottle with 
water, and fet it upon my table, iu reach of my bed; 

and 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. II5 

and to take off the chill or aguifli difpofition of the 
water, I put about a quarter of a pint of rum into it, 
and mixed them together ; then I got me a piece of 
the goat's flefh, and broiled it on the coals, but 
could eat very little ; I walked about, but was very- 
weak, and withal, very fad and heavy-hearted under 
a fenfe of my miserable condition, dreading the 
return of my diftemper the next day ; at night I 
made my fupper of three of the turtle's eggs, which 
I roaited in the afhes, and eat, as we call it, in the 
fliell ; and this was the firft bit of meat I had ever 
afked God's blefling to, even, as I could remember, 
in my whole life. 

After I had eaten I tried to walk ; but found 
myfelf fo weak, that I could hardly carry the gun 
(for I never went out without that ;) fo I went 
but a little way, and fat down upon the ground, 
looking out upon the fea, which was juft before me, 
and very calm and fmooth. As I fat here, fome 
fuch thoughts as thefe occurred to me. 

What is the earth and fea, of which I have feen fo 
much ? Whence is it produced ? And whai; am I, 
and' all the other creatures, wild and tame, human 
and brutal, whence are we ? 

Sure we are all made by fome fecret power, who 
formed the earth and fea, the air and fky ; and who 
is that ? 

Then it followed, moft naturally : it is God that has 
made it all : well, but then it came on ftrangely ; if 
God has made all thefe things, he guides and governs 
them all, and all things that concern them ; for the 
Being that could make all things, muft certainly 
have power to guide and direft them. 

I 2 If 



Il6 LltE Ai^D At)VENTtJRE^ 

If fo, nothing can happen in the great circuit of' 
his works, either without his knowledge or appoint-* 
ment; 

And if nothing happens without his knowledge^ 
he knows that I am here, and am in a dreadful 
condition ; and if nothing happens without his 
appointment, he has appointed all this to befal me. 

Nothing occurred to my thoughts to contradict 
any of thefe conclufions ; and therefore it refted 
upon me with the greater force, that it nmft needs 
be, that God had appointed all this to befal me ; 
that I was brought to this miferable circumftance by 
his direftion, he having the fole power, not of me 
only, but of every thing that happened in the world. 
Immediately it followed. 

Why has God done this to me? What have I done to be 
thus vfed? 

My confcience prefently checked me in that 
inquiry, as if I had blafphemed ; and methought it 
fpoke to me, like a voice ; Wretch I doji thou ajk 
Kvhat thou haji done? look back upon a dreadful 
mif-fpent life, and alk thyfelf what thou hajl not done? 
afk, why is it that thou wert not long ago dejiroyed? 
why wert thou not drowned in Yarmouth Roads ? 
killed in the fight when the jhip %vas takqn by the 
Sallee man of war? devoured by the wild beafi;s on the 
coajl of Africa? Or, drowned HERE^ when all 
the crew perijhed but thyfelf ? Doft thou alk, What 
have I done ? 

I was ftruck with thefe reflexions as one 
aftonifhed, and had not a word to fay, no, not to 
anfwer to myfelf ; but rofe up penfive and fad, 
walked back to my retreat, and went up over my 

wall, 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. llj 

t^all, as if I had been going to bed ; but my thoughts 
were fadly difturbed, and I had no inclination to 
ileep ; fo I fat down in my chair, and lighted my 
lamp, for it began to be dark. Now, as the 
apprehenfions of the return of my diftemper terrified 
me very much, it occurred to my thought, fhat the 
Brafilians take no phyfic but their tobacco, for 
almoft all diftempers ; and I had a piece of a roll 
of tobacco in one of the chefts, which was quite 
cured, and fome alfo that was green, and not quite 
cured. 

I went, direfted by heaven, no doubt ! for in this 
cheft I found a cure both for foul and body; I opened 
the cheft, and found what I looked for, viz. the 
tobacco ; and as the few books I had faved lay there 
too, I took out one of the bibles which I mentioned 
before, and which, to this time, I had not found 
Jeifure, or fo much as inclination, to look into ; I 
jfay I took it out, and brought both that and the 
tobacco with me to the table. 

What ufe to make of the tobacco I knew not, as 
to my diftemper, ox whether it was good for it or 
no ; but I tried feveral experiments with it, as if I 
was refolved it fliould hit one way or other : I firft 
took a piece of a leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, 
which indeed at firft almoft ftupified my brain, the 
tobacco being green and ftrong, and that I had not 
been much ufed to it ; then I took fome, and fteeped 
it an hour or two in fome rum, and refolved to take 
adofe of it when I lay down ; and laftly, I burnt fome 
upon a pan of coals, and held my nofe clofe over 
the jDnoke of it, as long as I could bear it, as well 

I3 for 



120 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

I fhould have been ; for I had a little fpice of the 
cold fit, but it was not much. 

"July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three 
ways, and dozed myfelf with it at firft, and doubled 
the quantity which I drank. 

July 3, I miffed the fit for good and all, though I 
did not recover my full ftrength for fome weeks 
after. While I was thus gathering ftrength, my 
thoughts ran exceedingly upon this fcripture, / will 
deliver thee ; and the impoffibi^ty pi my deliverance 
lay much upon my mind, ij^^bar of my ever 
expefting it ; but as I was difcouraging myfelf with 
fuch thoughts, it occurred to my mind, that I pored 
fo much upon my deliverenee from the main 
affliftion, that I difregarded the deliverance 1 had 
received ; and I was, as it were, made to aflc myfelf 
fuch queftionsas thefe; viz. Have I not been delivered, 
and wonderfully too, from ficknefs ? from the moft 
diftreffed condition that could be, and that was fo 
frightful to me ? and what notice had I taken of it ? 
had I done my part ? God had delivered me : but I 
had not glorified him : that is to fay, Ihad jiot owned 
and been thankful for that as a deliverance ; and how 
could I expefl: greater deliverance ? 

This touched my heart very much, and imme- 
diately I kneeled down, and gave God thanks aloud, 
for >my recovery from my ficknefs. 

July 4. In the morning I took the bible ; and, be- 
ginning at the New Teftament, I began ferioufly to 
read it, and impofed upon myfelf to read a -while 
every morning and every night, not tying myfelf to 
the number of chapters, but as long as my thoughts 
fhould engage me : it was^not long after I fet ferioufly 
to this work, but I found my heart more deeply and 

fmcerely 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 121 

fincerely afFefted with the wickednefs of my paft life ; 
the impreffion of my dream revived, and the words. 
All thefe thmgs have not brought thee to repentance^ 
ran ferioufly in my thoughts : I was earneftly begging 
of God to give me repentance, when it happened 
providentially the very day, that, reading the fcrip- 
ture, I came to thefe words, He is exalted a Prince^ 
and a Saviour^ to give repenta^ice^ and to give remijjion : 
I threw down the book, and with my heart as well 
as my hand lifted up to heaven, in a kind of exflafyof 
joy, I cried out aloud, Jefus^ thoufon ^David, Jefusj 
thou exalted Prince and Saviour^ give me repentance / 

This was the firfl time that I could fay in the true 
fenfe of the words, that I prayed in all my life ; for 
now I prayed with a fenfe of my condition, and with 
a true fcripture view of hope, founded on the 
encouragement of the v/ord of God ; and from this 
time, I may fay, I began to have hope that God 
would hear me. 

Now I began to conftrue the words mentioned 
above. Call on me^ and I will deliver thee^ in a 
different fenfe from what I had ever done before ; for 
then I had no notion of any thing being called 
deliverance, but my being delivered froni the cap- 
tivity I was in ; for though I was indeed at large in 
the place, yet the ifland was certainly a prifon to me, 
iand that in the worft fenfe in the world ; but now I 
learned to take it in another fenfe. Now I looked 
back upon my paft life with fuch horror, and my 
fms appeared fo dreadful, that my foul fought nothing 
of God, but deliverance from the load of guilt that 
bore down all my comfort. As for my folitary life, 
it was nothing ; I did not fo much as pray to be deli- 
vered 



122 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

vered from it, or think of it ; it was all of no 
confideration in comparifon of this ; and I added 
this part here, to hint to whoever fhall read it, that 
whenever they come to a true fenfe of things, they 
will find deliverance from fin a much greater bleffing 
than diliverance from afBidion. 

But, leaving this part, I return to my journal. 

My condition began now to be, though not lefs mi- 
ferable as to my way of living, yet much eafier to my 
mind ; and my thoughts being direded, by a cou- 
ftant reading the fcripture, and praying to God, to 
things of a higher nature, I had a great deal of 
comfort within, which till now I knew nothing of : 
alfo as my health and ftrength returned, I beftirred 
myfelf tofurnifli myfelf with every thing that I wanted, 
and make my way of living as regular as I could* 

From the 4th of ^uly to the 14th, I was chiefly 
employed in walking about with my gun in my hand 
a little and a little at a time, as a man that was 
gathering up his ftrength after a fit of ficknefs ; for 
it is hardly to be imagined how low I was, and to 
what weaknefs I was reduced. The application 
which I made ufe of was perfedly new, and per- 
haps what had never cured an ague before ; neither 
can I recommend it to any one to praftife by this 
experiment ; and though it did carry off the fit, yet 
it rather contributed to weaken me; for I had 
frequent convulfions in my nerves and limbs for 
fometlme. ' ^"- 

I learnt from it alfo this In particular, that being 
abroad in the rainy feafon was the moft pernicious 

thing 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 123 

thing to my health that could be, efpecially in thofe 
rains which came attended with ftorms and hurri- 
canes of wind ; for as the rain which came in a dry 
feafon was always moft accompanied with fuch ftorms, 
fo I found this rain was much more dangerous than 
the rain which fell in September and Oflober* 

I had been now in this unhappy ifland above ten 
months ; all poflibility of deliverance from this con- 
dition feemed to be entirely taken from me ; and I 
firmly believed that no human fhape had ever fet 
foot upon that place. Having now fecured my 
habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind, I had a 
great defire to make a more perfect difcovery of the 
ifland, and to fee what other productions I might 
find, which yet I knew nothing of. 

It was the 1 5th of July that I began to take a more 
particular furvey of the ifland itfelf ; I went up the 
creek firft, where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts on 
fliore. I found, after I came about two miles up, 
that the tide did not flow any higher, and that it was 
no more than a little brook of running water, and 
very frefli and good ; but this being the dry feafon, 
there was hardly any water in fome parts of it, at 
leaft not enough to run into any ftream, fo as it 
could be perceived. 

On the bank of this brook I found many pleafant 
favanna's or meadows, plain, fmooth, and covered 
with grafs ; and on the rifing parts of them next to 
the higher grounds, where the water, as it might be 
fuppofed, never overflowed, I found a great deal of 
tobacco, green, and growing to a great and very 
ftrong ftalk : there were divers other plants which I 
had no notion of, or undcrftanding about ; and 

might 



124 ^IFE AND ADVENTURES 

might perhaps have virtues of their own, which I 
coald not find out. 

I fearched for the caflave root, which the Indians 
in all that climate make their bread of, but I could 
find none. I faw large plants of aloes, but did not 
then underftand them : I faw feveral fugar canes, but 
wild, and, for want of cultivation, imperfe£b. I 
contented myfelf with thefe difcoveries for this time, 
and came back mufing with myfelf what courfe I 
might take to know the virtue and goodnefs of any of 
the fruits or plants which I fhould difcover, but could 
bring it to no conclufion ; for, in fliort, I had made 
fo little obfervation while I was in the Brafils^ that I 
knew little of the plants of the field, at leafl very 
little that might ferve me to any purpofe now in my 
diilrefs. 

The next day, the i6th, I went up the fame way 
again ; and, after going fomething farther than I had 
done the day before, I found the brook and the 
favanna's began to ceafe, and the country became 
more woody than before. In this part I found 
different fruits, and particularly I found melons upon 
the ground in great abundance, and grapes upon the 
trees ; the vines had fpread indeed over the trees, 
and the cluilers of grapes were jufl now in their 
prime, very ripe and rich. This was a furprifing 
difcovery, and I was exceeding glad of them, but I 
was warned by my experience to e«Lt fparingly of them, 
remembering, then when I was alhore in Barbary^y 
the eating of grapes killed feveral of our Englijhmen 
vjho were flaves there, by throwing them into fluxes 
and fevers : but I found an excellent ufe for thefe 
grapes, and that was to cure or dry them in tl^e fun, 

^n4 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1 25 

^nd keep them as dried grapes or raifins are kept, 
which I thought would be, as indeed they were, as 
wholefome, and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes 
might be had. 

I fpent all that evening there, and went not back 
to my habitation, which by the way was the firft 
night, as I might fay, I had lain from home. In the 
night I took my firft contrivance, and got up into a 
tree, where I flept well, and the next morning pro- 
ceeded upon my difcovery, travelling near four miles, 
as I might judge by the length of the valley, keeping 
ftill due north, with a ridge of hills on the fouth and 
north fide of me. 

At the end of this march I came to an opening, 
where the country feemed to defcend to the weft ; 
and a little fpring of frefli water, which iffued out of 
the fide of the hill by me, ran the other way, that is, 
due Eaft ; and the country appeared fo frefli, fo green, 
fo flouriftiing, every thing being in a conftant verdure 
or flourifli of fpring, that it looked like a planted 
garden. 

I defcended a little on the fide of that delicious 
Talley, furveying it with a fecret kind of pleafure 
(though mixed with other afflifting thoughts) to 
think that this was all my own, that I was king and 
lord of all this country indefeafibly, and had a right 
©f pofleflion ; and if I could convey it, I might have 
it in inheritance, as completely as any lord of a 
manor in England. ' I faw here abundance of cocoa- 
trees, orange and lemon, and citron-trees, but all 
wild, and few bearing any fruit ; at leaft, not then : 
however, the green limes that I gathered were not 
only pleafant to eat, but very v/holefomej and I 

mixed 



126 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

mixed their juice afterwards with water, which made 
it very wholefome, and very cool and refrefhing. 

I found now I had bufinefs enough to gather and 
carry home ; and refolved to lay up a ftore, as well 
of grapes as limes and lemons, to furnifh myfelf for 
the wet feafon, which I knew was approaching. 

In order to do this I gathered a great heap of 
grapes in one place, and a lefTer heap in another 
place, and a great parcel of limes and lemons in 
another place ; and taking a few of each with me, I 
travelled homeward, and refolved to come again, and 
bring a bag or fack, or what I cou^ make, to carry 
the reft home. 

Accordingly, having fpent three days in this 
journey, I came home (fo I muft now call my tent, 
and my cave ;) but before I got thither, the grapes 
were fpoiled ; the richnefs of the fruit, and the 
weight of the juice, having broken them, and bruifed 
them, they were good for little or nothing ; as to the 
limes, they were good, but I could bring but a few. 

The next day, being the 19th, I went back, hav- 
ing made me two fmall bags to bring home my 
harveft : But I was furprifed, when coming to my 
heap of grapes, which were fo rich and fine when I 
gathered them, I found them all fpread abroad, trod 
to pieces, and dragged about, fome here, fome there, 
and abundance eaten and devoured : By this I con- 
cluded there were fome wild creatures thoffgabout^, 
which had done this ; but what they were I knew 
not. 

However, as I found there was no laying them up 
on heaps, and no carrying them away in a fack, but 
that one way they would be deftroyed, and the other 

way 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. I27 

way they would be cruflied with their own weight, I 
took another courfe ; for I gathered a large quantity 
of the grapes, and hung them upon the out branches 
of the trees, that they might cute and dry in the fun; 
and as for the limes and lemons, I carried as many 
back as I could well (land under* 

When I came home from this journey, I contem- 
plated with great pleafure on the fruitfulnefs of that 
valley, and the pleafantnefsof the fituation,thefecurity 
from ftorms on that fide of the water, and the wood ; 
and concluded that I had pitched upon a place to fix 
my abode which was by far the worft part of the 
country. Upon the whole, I began to confider of 
removing my habitation, and to look out for a place 
equally fafe as wh^re I now was fituated, if poffible, 
in that pleafant fruitful part of the ifland. 

This thought ran long in my head, and I was 
exceeding fond of it for fome time, the pleafantnefs 
of the place tempting me ; but when I came to a 
nearer view of it, and to confider that I was now by 
the fea fide, where it was at leaft poffible that fome- 
thing might happen to my advantage, and that the 
fame ill fate that brought me hither might bring 
fome other unhappy wretches to the fame place ; and 
though it was fcarce probable that any fuch thing 
fliould ever happen, yet to inclofe myfelf among the 
hills and woods, in the centre of the ifland,. was to 
anticipate my bondage, and to render fuch an affair 
not only improbable, but impoffible ; and that there- 
fore I ought not by any means to remove. 

However, I was fo enamoured with this place, that 
I fpent much of my time there for the whole remain- 
ing part of the month of ^ul'j ; and though, upon 
' fecond 



128 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

fecond thoughts I refolved as above, not tc remove, 
yet I built me a little kind of a bower, and furrounded 
it at a diftance v/ith a ftrong fence, being a double 
hedge, as high as I could reach, well ftaked and 
filled between with brufhwood ; and here I lay very 
fecure, fometimes two or three nights together, 
always going over it with aliidder, as before ; fo that I 
fancied now I had my country houfe, and my feacoaft 
houfe : and this work took me up the beginning of 
Augujl. 

I had but newly finiflied my fence, and began to 
enjoy my labour, but the rains came on, and made 
me flick clofe to my firft habitation ; for though I 
had made me a tent like the other, with a piece of a 
fail, andfpread it very well, yet I had not the fhelter 
*of an hill to keep me from ftorms, nor a cave behind 
me to retreat into when the rains were extraordinary. 

About the beginning of -^//^^,^ as I faid, I had 
finifhed my bower, and began to enjoy myfelf. The 
third of Augujl I found the grapes I had hung up 
were perfeftly dried, and indeed were excellent good 
raifins of the fun; fo I began to take them down 
from the trees, and it was very happy that I did fo ; 
for the rains which followed would have fpoiled them, 
and I had loft the beft part of my winter food ; for I 
had above two hundred large bunches of them. No 
fooner had I taken them all down, and carried moft 
of them home to my cave, but it began to rain ; and 
from thence, which was the fourteenth of Auguft^ it 
rained more or lefs eveiy day, till the middle of 
October ; and fometimes fo violently, that I could not 
ftir out of my cave for feveral days. 

In this feafon I was much furprifed with £he increafe 
of m.y family : I had been concerned for y the lofs of 

one 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, t2g 

Oiie of my cats, who ran away from me, or, as I 
thought, had been dead ; and I heard no more tale 
or tidings of her, till to my aftonifhment flie came 
home about the end of Augujl^ with three kittens. 
This was the more ftrange to me, becaufe though I 
had killed a wild cat, as I called it, with my gun, 
yet I thought jt was a quite different kind from our 
Eurapean cat^ ; yet the young cats were the fame 
kind of houfe breed like the old one ; and both my 
cats being females, I thought it very ftrange : but 
from thefe three cats, I afterwards came to be fo 
peftered with cats, that I was forced to kill them like 
vermin, or wild beafts, and to drive them fi'om my 
houfe as much as poffible. 

From the fourteenth of Augujl to the twenty-fixth, 
inceffant rain, fo that I could not ftir, and was now ^ 
very careful not to be much wet. In this confinement 
1 began to be ftraightened for food; but venturing 
out twice, I one day killed a goat : and the laft day, 
which was the twenty-fixth, found a very large 
tortoife, which was a treat to me, and my food was 
regulated thus : I eat a bunch of raifms for my 
breakfaft, a piece of the goats flefn, or of the turtle, 
for my dinner, broiled (for to my great misfortune I 
had no vefTel to boil or ftew any thing \) and two or 
three of the turtle's eggs for fupper. 

During this confinement in my cover by the rain, 
I worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my 
cave J and, by degrees, worked it on towards one 
fide, till I came to the outfide of the hill, and made 
a door or way out, which came beyond my fence or 
Wall ; and fo I came in and out this way : but I was 
Hot perfectly eafy at laying fo open ; for as I had, 
Vol. I. K managed 



rjO LJFE AND ADVENTURE? 

managed myfelf before, I was in a perfed inclofure/ 
whereas now I thought I lay expofed ; and yet I 
could not perceive that there was any living thing 
to fear, the biggeft creature that I had feen upon the 
ifland being a goat. 

- September the thirtieth* I was now come to the 
unhappy anniverfary of my landing : I cad up the 
notches on my poft, and found I had been on fhore 
three hundred and fixty-five days. I kept this day 
as a folemn faft, fetting it apart to a religious exer- 
cife, proftrating myfelf to the ground with the moft 
ferious humiKation, confeffing myfelf to God, ac- 
knowledging his righteous judgment upon me, and 
praying to him to have mercy on me, through J^fus 
Chrift ; and having not tafted the lead refrefhment 
for twelve hours, even till the going down of the fun, 
I then eat a bifcuit-cake, and a bunch of grapes, and 
weiit to bed, finifliing the day as I began it. 

I had all this time obferved no fabbath-day ; for as 
at firft I had no fenfe of religion upon my mind, I 
had after fome time omitted to diftinguifh the weeks, 
by making a longer notch than ordinary for the 
fabbath-day, and fo did not really know what any of 
the days were j but now, having cafl: up the days as 
above, I found I had been there a year ; fo I divided 
it into weeks, and fet apart every feventh day for a 
fabbath ; though I found at the end of my account I 
had loft a day or two of my reckoning. 

A little after this my ink began to fail me, and 
fo I contented myfelf to ufe it more fparingly, and to= 
write down only the moft remarkable events of my 
life, without continuing a daily memorandum of 
other things. 

The 



OF ROBINSOK CRUSOE. l^l 

. The rainy feafon, and the dry feafon, began now 
to appear regular to me, aiid I learned to divide them 
fo as to provide for them accordingly. But I bought 
all my experience before I had it ; and this I am 
going to relate, was one of the moft difcouraging 
experiments that I made at all. I have mentioned* 
that I had faved the few ears of barley and rice which 
I had fo furprifingly found fpring up, as I thought, 
of themfelves, and believe there were about thirty 
ftalks of rice, and about twenty of barley j and now 
I thought it a proper time to fow it after the rains, the 
fun being in its fouthernpofition going from me. 

Accordingly I dug up a piece of ground, as well 
as I could, with my wooden fpade, and dividing it 
into two parts, I fowed my grain j but as I was fow- 
ing, it cafually occurred to my thought, that I would 
not fow it all at firft, becaufe I did not know when 
was the proper time for it ; fo I fowed about two 
thirds of the feeds, leaving about ail handful of each. 

It was a great comfort to me afterwards that I did 
fo, for not one grain of that I fowed this time came 
to any thing ; for the dry months following, the eatth 
having had no rain after the feed was fown, it had 
no moifture to affift its growth, and never came up 
at all, till the wet feafon had come again, and then 
it grew as if it had been newly fown. 

Finding my firft feed did not grow, which I eafily ' 
imagined was by the drought, I fought for a moifter 
piece of ground to make another trial in ; and I dug 
up a piece of ground near my new bower, and fowed 
the reft of my feed in February^ a little before the 
vernal equinox ; and this, having the rainy months 
of March and April to water it, fprung up very plea- 

K 2 fantly 



13^ tIPE AND ADVENtUKES 

fantly, and yielded a very good crop ; but haviirg: 
part of the feed left only, jwid not daring to fow all 
that 1 had yet, I had but a fmall quantity at laft,^ my 
whole crop not amouming to above half a peck c^ 
each kind. 

But by this experience I was ittade maffer of my^ 
bufinefs, and knew exaftly when th€ proper feafon 
was to fow ; and that I might expe£t two feed times, 
^d two harvefts, every year» 

While this corn was growing, I made a little dif-* 
covery, which was of ufe to- me afterwards : As foon^ 
as the rains were over, and the weather began ta 
fettle, which was about the month of November^ I 
made a vifit up the country to my bower, .where: 
though I had not been fom^ months, yet I found all 
things juft as I left them. The circle or double hedge 
that I had made, was not only firn^ and entire, but 
the ftakes which 1 had. cut off of fome trees that grew 
thereabouts,, were all Ihot out, and grown with long 
branches, as much as a willow tree ufually fhoots the 
firft year after lopping its head. I could not tell 
what tree to call it that thefe ftakes were cut from.- 
1 was furprifed^ and yet very well pleafed, to fee the 
young trees grow j and I pruned them,; and led them, 
up to grow as much alike as I could ^ and it is fcarce 
credible, how beautiful a figure they grew into ia 
three years ; fo that though the hedge made a circle 
of about twenty.five yards in diameter, yet the trees,, 
for fuch I might now call them, foon- covered it^ 
and it was a complete |liade, fufEcient to lodge under 
all the dry feafon^ 

This made me refofve to cut fome more ftakes,^ 
and make me an hedg;e like this in a f^micircle round 

my 



OT ROBmSON CRUSOB. 1 33 

my wall, I mean that of my firft dwelling, which I 
did ; and placing the trees or flakes in a double row, 
at above eight yards diftance from my firft fence; they 
grew prefently, and were at firft a fine cover to my 
habitation, and afterwards ferved for a defence aifo, 
as I (hall obferve in its order. 

I found now, that the feafons of the year might 
generally be divided, not into fummer and winter, as 
in Europe J but into the rainy feafons, and the dry 
feafous, whiph were generally thus : 

jHalf February^'' 
March^ 
Half Aprils J 
liTili Aprils 
May^ 

June I ^^5 ^^ ^^^ being then to the north 
yuly\\ --^^'^^'-- 

Half AuguJlJ 
UdM Auguf.;'^ 

September^ \ Rain, the fun being then co.me back. 
Half O^^^^r,, 
B.zUOaober, 
November^ 

December, y^H.^ *^ ^^^ '^^^g *^ ^^ ^^ ^^^* 
January J of the line. 

^2Xi February^ J 

The rainy feafon fortietimes held longer or fhorter, 
as the winds happened to blow j but this was the 
general obfervation I made. After I had found, by 
experience, the ill confequence of being abroad in 
the rain, I took care to furnifh myfelf with provifion 
beforehand, that I might not be obliged to go out ; 



Rainy, the fun being then on, or 
near, the equinox. 



of the line 



K3 



and 



134 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

and I fat within doors as much as poffible during the 
wet months. 

In this time I found much employment (and very 
fuitable alfo to the time) for I found great occafion 
of many things which I had no way to furnifh myfelf 
with, but by hard labour, and conftant application ; 
particularly, I tried many ways to make myfelf a 
bafket; but all the twigs I could get for the purpofe 
proved fo brittle, that they would do nothing. It 
proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when 
I was a boy, I ufed to take great delight in {landing 
at a balket-maker's in the town where my father lived, 
to fee them make their wicker ware ; and being, as 
boys ufually are, very officious to help, and a great 
obferver of the manner how they worked thofe things, 
and fometimes lent an hand, I had by this means fo 
full knowledge of the methods of it j that I wanted 
nothing but the materials ; when it came into my 
mind, that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut 
my ftakes that grew, might poffibly be as tough as 
the fallows and willows, and ofiers, in England ; 
and I refolved to try. 

Accordingly the next day I went to my country^ 
houfe, as I called it, and cutting fome of the fmaller 
twigs, I found them to my purpofe as much as I 
could defire ; whereupon I came the next time pre- 
pared with an hatchet to cut down a quantity, which 
I foon found, for there was a great plenty of them : 
thefe I fet up to dry within my circle or hedges ; and 
when they were fit for ufe, I carried them to my 
cave ; and here during the next feafon I employed 
myfelf in making, (as well as I could) a great many 
balkets, both to carry earth, or to carry or lay up 

any 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. I35 

any thing, as I had occaflon ; and though I did not 
finifli them very handfomely, yet I made them 
fufficiently ferviceable for my purpofe ; and thus 
afterwards I took care never to be without them ; 
and as my wicker- ware decayed I made more ; efpe- 
cially I made ftrong deep baikets to place my corn 
in, inftead of facks, when I fliould come to have 
any quantity of it. 

Having maftered this difficulty, and employed a 
world of time about it, I beftirred myfelf to fee, if 
poffible, how to fupply two wants. I had no vefTels 
to hold any thing that was liquid, except two rundlets, 
which were almoft full of rum, and fome glafs bottles, 
fome of the common fize, and others which were 
cafebottles fquare, for the holding of waters, fpirits, 
. &c. I had not fo much as a pot to boil any thing in, 
except a great kettle which I faved out of the fhip, 
and which was too big for fuch ufes as I defired it 
for, viz. to make broth, and ftew a bit of meat by 
itfelf. The fecond thing I would fain have had, was 
a tobacco pipe, but it was impoffible for me to make 
one ; however, I found a contrivance for that too 
at lad. 

I employed myfelf in planting my fecond rows^ of 
ftakes of piles, and in this wicker work, all the 
fummer, or dry feafon ; when another bufmefs took 
me up more time than it could be imagined I could 
fpare. 

I mentioned before, that I had a great mind to fee 
the whole ifland, and that I had travelled up the brook, 
and fo on to where I built my bower, and where I 
had an opening quite tothe fea, on the other fide of 
the ifland. I now refolved to travel quite acrofs to 

K 4 the 



126 LIIE AND ADVENTUREi 

the fea (horc on that fide : So taking my gun, and 
hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quantity of powder 
and (hot than ufual, with two bifcuit-cakes, and a 
great bunch of raifins i|i my pouch, for my ftore, I 
began my journey. When I had paffed the vale 
where my bower flood, as above, I came within 
view of the fea^ to the weft ; and it being a very clear 
day, I fairly defcried land, whether an ifland or con- 
tinent I could not tell 5 but it lay very high, extend- 
ing from the weft, to the W. S. V/. at a very great 
diftance ; by my guefs it could not be lefs than fifteen^ 
pr twenty leagues off. 

I could not tell what part of the world this might 
be, otherwifQ, than that I knew it muft be part of 
America ; and, as I concluded by all my obfervations, 
muft be near the Spanijh dominions, and perhaps 
was all inhabited by favages, where if I fhoul4 
have landed, I had been in a worfe condition than I 
was now ; and therefore I acquiefced in the difpofi- 
tions of Providence, which I began now to own, and 
to believe, ordered every thing for the beft; I fay, 
I quieted my mind with this, and left afilidting my-- 
felf with fruitlefs wiflies of being there. 
. Befides, after fome paufe upon this affair, I con- 
fidered, that if this land was the . S/^;2//& coaft, I 
fliould certainly, one time or other, fee fome veffeHr 
pafs or repafs one way or other ; but if not, then it 
was the favage coaft betwen the Spanijh country and 
Brajtly which were indeed the .worft of favages ; for 
they are canibals, or men-eaters, and fail not to 
murder and 4evour all the human bodies that fall 
into their hands. 

With 



CF HOBINSON CRUSOE. I37 

With thefe confideratlons I walked very leifurely 
forward. I found that fide of the ifland where I now 
was, much pleafanter than mine, the open or favanna 
fields fweet, adorned with flowers and grafs, and 
full of very fine w oods. I faw abundance of parrots, 
and fain would I have caught one, if poflible, to 
have kept it to be tame, and taught it to fpeak to 
me. I did, after fome pains taking, catch a young 
parrot ; for I knocked it down with a flick, and 
having recovered it, I brought it home, but it was 
fome years before I could make him fpeak. However, 
at laft I taught him to call me by my name very 
familiarly : but the accident that followed, though 
it be a trifle, will be very diverting in its place. 

I was exceedingly diverted with this journey : I 
found in the low grounds, hares, as I thought them 
to be, and foxes, but they differed greatly from all 
the other kinds I had met with ; nor could I fatisfy 
myfelf to eat them, though I killed feveral : but I 
had no need to be venturous ; for I had no want of 
food, and of that which was very good too ; efpe- 
cially thefe three forts, viz. goats, pigeons, and 
turtle or tortoife ; which, added to my grapes, 
Leadenhall market could not have furnilhed a better 
table than I, in proportion to the company : and 
though my cafe was deplorable enough, yet I had 
great caufe for thankfulnefs, that I was not driven 
to any extremities for foo4 j but rather plenty, ^ven 
to dainties. 

I never travelled in this journey above two miles 
outright in a day, or thereabouts ; but I took fo 
many turns and returns, to fee what difcoveries I could 
make, that I came weary enough tp the place where 

I refolved 



138 LIFE AND ADVENf URES 

I refolved to fit down for all night ; and then either 
repofed myfelf in a tree, or furrounded myfelf with 
a rowof ftakes fet upright in the ground, either from 
one tree to another, or fo as no wild creature could 
come at me without waking me. 

As foon as I came to the fea-fliore, I was furprifed 
to fee that r had taken up my lot on the worft fide of 
the ifland ; for here indeed / the fhore was covered 
with innumerable turtles, whereas on the other fide 
I had found but three in a year and an half. Here 
was alfo an infinite number of fowls of many kinds, 
fome of which I had not feen before, and many of 
th^m very good meat ; but fuch as I knew not the 
names of, except thofe called penguins. 

I could have Ihot as many as I pleafed, but was 
very fparing of my powder and fhot : and therefore 
had more mind to kill a (he-goat, if I could, which 
I could better feed on : and though there were many 
goats here more than on the other fide of the ifland, 
yet it was with much more difficulty that I could come 
Jiear them ; the country being flat and even,^ and 
they faw me much fooner than when I was on the 
hills. 

I confefs this fide of the country w^s much plea- 
fanter than mine, but yet I had hot the leafl: inclina^" 
tion to remove; for as I was fixed in my habitation, 
it became natural to me, and I feemed all the while 
I was here to be, as it were, upon a journey, and 
from home : however, I travelled along the fliore of 
the fea towards the eaft, I fuppofe, about twelve 
miles; and then fetting up a great pole upon the 
fliore for a mark, I concluded I would go home 
again j and the 'ne:j^t journey I took fhould be on 

the 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1 39 

the other fide of the ifland, eaft from my dwelling, 
and fo round, till I cr.me to my poft again : of which 
in its place. 

I took another way to come back than that I went, 
thinking I could eafily keep all the ifland fo much 
in my view, that I could not mifs finding my firfl: 
dwelling by viewing the country ; but I found myfelf 
tniftaken ; for being come about two or three miles, 
I found myfelf defcended into a very large valley ; 
but fo furrounded with hills, and thofe hills covered 
with woods, that I could not fee which was my way 
by any direSion but that of the fuii; nor even then, 
unlefs I knew very well the pofition of the fun at that 
time of the day. 

It happened, to my farther misfortune, that the 
weather proved hazy for three or four days, while I 
was in this valley ; and not being able to fee the fun, 
I wandered about very uncomfortably, and at laft 
was obliged to find out the fea-fide, look for my poll, 
and come back the fame way I went ; and then by 
eafy journies I turned homeward, the weather being 
exceeding hot ; and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, 
and other things, very heavy. 

In this journey my dog furprifed a young kid, and 
fei^ed upon it ; and I running in to take hold of it, 
caught it, and faved it alive ff om the dog : I had a 
great mind to bring it home, if I could ; for I had 
often been mufing whether it might not be poflible 
to get a kid or two, and fo raife a breed of tame 
goats, .which might fupply me when my powder and 
fliot fliould be fpent. 

I made a collar for this little creature, and with a 
flring which I made of fome rope yarn, which I 

always 



140 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

always carried about me, I led him along, though 
with fome difficulty, till I came to my bower, and 
ther^ I enclofed him, and left him ; for I was very 
impatient to be at home, from whence I had been 
abfent above a month. 

I cannot exprefs what a fatisfaftion it was to me 
to come into my old hutch, and lie down in my 
hammock-bed : this little wandering journey, without 
a fettled place of abode, had been fo unpleafant to 
me, that my own houfe, as I called it to myfelf, 
was a perfed fettlement to me, compared to that ; 
and it rendered every thing about me fo comfortable, 
that I refolved I would never go a great way from 
it again, while it fhould be my lot to ftay on the 
ifland. 

I repofed myfelf here a week, to reft and regale 
myfelf after my long journey ; during which, moft 
of the time was taken up in the weighty aflPair of 
tnaking a cage for my poll, who began now to be a 
mere domeftic, and to be mighty well acquainted 
with me. Then I began to think of the poor kid, 
which I had pent in within my little circle, and 
refolved to go and fetch it home, and give it fome 
food ; accordingly I went, and found it where I left 
It; for indeed it could not get out, but was almoft 
ftarved for want of food ; I w^ent and cut boughs of 
trees and branches of fuch flirubs as I could find, 
and threw it over, and having fed it, I tied it as I 
did before, to lead it away ; but it was fo tame with 
being hungry, that I had no need to have tied it; 
for it followed me like a dog ; and as I continually 
fed it, the creature became fo loving, fo gentle, 
and fo fond, that it became from that time one 

of, 



at ROBINSON CRUS:OE. 14! 

of my domeftics alfo, and would never leiave me 
afterwards. 

The rainy feafon of the Autumnal Equinox was 
now come, and I kept the 30th of September in the 
fame folemn manner as before, being the anniverfary 
of my landing on the ifland, having now been there 
two years, and no more profpeQ: of being delivered 
than the firfl day I came there. I fpent the whole 
day in humble and thankful acknowledgments of the 
many wonderful mercies which my folitary conditioa 
was attended with, and without which it might h ave 
been infinitely more miferable. I gave humble and 
hearty thanks, that God had been pleafed to difcover 
to me even that it was poffible I might be more 
happy in this folitary condition than I {hould have 
been in a liberty of fociety, and in all the pleafures 
of the w^orld : that he could fully make up to me the 
deficiencies of my folitary ftate, and the want of 
human fociety, by his prefence, and the communi- 
cation of his grace to my foul, fupporting, com- 
forting, and encouraging me to depend upon his 
providence here, and hope for his eternal prefence 
hereafter. 

It was now that I began fenfibly to feel how muclp 
more happy the life I now led was, with all it* 
miferable circumftances, than the wicked, curfed, 
abominable life I led all the paft pait of my days ; 
and now, having changed both my forrows and my 
joys, my very defires altered, my afFeftions changed 
their guft, and my delights were perfedly new from 
what they were at firfl: coming, or indeed for the 
two years paft. 

But 



14^ LIFB AND ADVENTURES 

Before as I walked about, either on my hunting, 
or for viewing the country, the ahguifh of my foul 
at my condition would break out upon me on a 
fudden, and my very heart would die within me, to 
think of the woods, the mountains, the defarts I was 
in ; and how I was a prifoner, locked up with the 
eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited 
wildernefs, without redemption. In the midfl o^ 
the greateft compofures of my mind^ this would 
break out upon me like a ftorm, and made me wring 
my hands, and weep like a child. Sometimes it 
would take me in the middle of my work, and I 
would immediately fit down and figh, and look 
upon the ground for. an hour or two together, and 
this was flill worfe to me ; for if I could burft out 
into tears, or vent myfelf by words, it would go 
off, and the grief, having exhaufted itfelf, would 
abate. 

. But now I began to exerclfe myfelf with new 
thoughts ; I daily read the word of God, and applied 
all the comforts of it to my prefent ftate. One 
morning, being very fad, I opened the bible upoa 
tbefe words, / wilt never ^ never leave theCj nor 
forfake thee! Immediately it occurred, that thefe 
words were to me , why elle fliould they be direded 
in fuch a manner, juft at the moment when I was 
mourning, over my condition, as one forfaken of 
God and man ? Wetl then, faid I, if God does not 
forfake me, of what ill confequence can it be^ or 
what matters it, though the world fliould all forfake 
me; feeing, on the other hand, if I had all the 
world, and fliould lofe the favour and blefling of 
Gqd, there would be no comparifou in the lofs ? 

From 



€F ROBINSON CRUSOir. I45 

From this moment I began to conclude in my 
mind, that it was poffible for me to be more happy 
in this forfaken, folitary condition, than it was 
probable I fhould have ever been in any other par- 
ticular ftate in the world ; and with this thought I 
was going to give thanks to God for bringing me to 
this place. 

I know not what it was, but fomething ihocked 
my mind at that thought, and I durft not fpeak the 
words : how canfl thou be fuch an hypocrite (faid I, 
even audibly), to pretend to be thankful for a con- 
dition, which, however thou may ft endeavour to be 
contented with, , thou wouldft t^ihtr pray heartily to 
be delivered from ? So I flopped there ; hut though 
I could not fay I thanked God, for being there, yet 
I fincerely gave thanks to God for opening my eyes^ 
by whatever afflidling providences, to fee the former 
condition of my life, and to mourn for my wickednefs, 
and repent. I never opened the bible, or (hut it, 
but my very foul within me bleffed God for direfting 
my friend in England^ without any order of mine, 
to pack it up among my goods ; and for aflifting 
me afterwards to fave it out of the wreck of 
the ftup. 

Thus, and in this difpofition of mind, I began 
my third year ; and though I have not given the 
reader the trouble of fo particular an account of my 
works this year as at the firft, yet in general it may 
be obferved, that I was very feldom idle; having 
regularly divided my time, according to the feveral 
daily employments that were before me ; fuch as, 
firft, my duty to God, and reading the fcriptures, 
U'hich I conftantly fet apart fome time for, thrice 

every 



144 ^IFE AND ADVENrURES 

every day. Secondly, the going abroad with my 
gun for food, which generally took me up three 
hours every morning when it did not rain* 
Thirdly, the ordering, curing, preferving, and 
cooking what I had killed or catched for my 
fupply ; thefe took up great part of the day: alfo it 
is to be confidered, that in the middle of the day, 
when the fun was in the zenith, the violence of the 
heat was too great to ftir out ; fo that about four 
hours in the evening was all the time I could be 
fuppofed to work in ; with this exception, that 
fometimes I changed my hours of hunting and 
working, and went to work in the morning, and 
abroad with my gun in the afternoon. 

To this fhort time allowed for labour, I defirc 
may be added the exceeding laborioufnefs of my 
work ; the many hours, which for want of tools, 
want of help, and want of ikill, every thing that I 
did. took up, out of my time: for example, I was 
full two-and-forty days making me a board for a 
long fhelf, which I wanted in my cave ; whereas two 
fawyers, with their tools and faw-pit, would have cut 
fix of them out of the fame tree in half a day. 

My cafe was this : It was to be a large tree which 
was to be cut down, becaufe my board was to be a 
broad one. ^ The tree I was three days a cutting 
down, and 1two more cutting oflf the boughs, and 
reducing it to a log,^ or piece of timber. With 
inexpreflible hacking, and hewing I reduced both the 
fides of it into chips, till it began to be light enough 
to move ; then I turned it, and made one fide of it 
fmooth and flat, as a board, from end to end : then 
turning that fide downward, cut the other fide tilh ^ 

brought 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE^ 14^ 

brought th^ plank to be about three inches thick, 
and fmooth oh both fides. Any one may judge the 
labour of my hands in fuch a piece of work j but 
labour and patience carried me through that and 
many other things ; I only obferve this in particular* 
to (hew the reafon why fo much of my time went 
away with fo little work, viz. That what might be a 
little to be done with help and tools, was a vafl 
labour, and required a prodigious time to do alone, 
and by hand* 

But notwithftanding this, with patience and 
labour, I went through many things, and indeed 
every thing that my circumftances made neceflary for 
me to do, as will appear by what follows* 

I was now in the months of November and Decern-^ 
her, expefting my crop of barley and rice. The 
ground I had manured or dug up for them was not 
great ; for, as I obferved, my feed of each was not 
above the quantity of half a peck ; for I had loft one 
whole crop by fowing in the dry feafon ; but now 
my crop promifed very well, when on a fudden I 
found I was in danger of lofing it all again by 
enemies of feveral forts, which it was fcarce poffible 
to keep from it; as firft, the goats, and wild 
creatures which I called hares, which, tafting the 
fwcetnefs of the blade, lay in it night and day, as 
foon as it came up, and eat it fo clofe, that it could 
get no time to (hoot up into ftalks. 

This I faw no remedy for, but by making an 
inclofure about it with a hedge, which I did with a 
great deal of toil ; and the more, becaufe it required 
a great deal of fpeed ; the creatures daily fpoiling 
my corn. However, as my arable land was but 
Vol. I. L fmall, 



146 LIFE AKD ADVEi^TURES 

fmall, fuited to my crop, I got it totally well fenced 
in about three weeks time, and Ihooting fome x)f the 
creatures in the day-time, I fet my dog to guard it in 
the night, tying him up to a ftake at the gate, where 
he would ftand and bark all night long j fo in a 
little time the enemies forfook the place, and the 
corn grew very ftrong and well, and began to ripen 
apace* 

But as the beafts ruiiied me before, while my corn 
was in the blade, fo the birds were as likely to ruin 
me now, when it was in the ear j for going along 
by the place to fee how it throve, I faw my Jittle 
crop furrounded with fowls of I know not how many 
forts, which ftood as it were watching till I fliould be 
gone. I immediately let fly among them (for I 
always had my gun wdth me.). I had no fooner 
ihot, but there arofe up a little cloud of fowls, 
which I had not feen at all, from among the corn 
itfelf. 

This touched me fenfibly ; for I forefaw, that in 
a few days they would devour all my hopes : that I 
ihou-ld be ftarved, and never be able to raife a crop 
at all ; and what to do I could not tell : however, I 
refolved not to lofe my corn, if pofTible, though I 
Ihould watch it night and day. In the firft place, 
I went among it to fee what damage was already done, 
and found they had fpoiled a good deal of it ; but 
that, as it was yet too green for them, the lofs was 
not fo great, but the remainder was like to be a good 
crop, if it could be faved. 

I (laid by it to load my gun,- and then coming 
away, I could eafily fee the thieves fitting upon all 
the trees about me, as if they only waited till I was 

gone 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 14J^ 

gone away, and the event proved it to be fo j for as 
I walked off as if I was gone, I was no fooner out 
of their fight, but they dropped down one by one 
iato the corn again. I was fo provoked, that I 
could not have patience to flay till more came on, 
knowing that every grain that they eat now was, as 
it might be faid, a peck loaf to me in the confe- 
qilence ; but coming up to the hedge, I fired again^ 
and killed three of them. This was what I wiftied 
for ; fo I took them up, and ferved them as we ferve 
notorious thieves in England, viz. hanged them in 
chains for a terror to others. It is impoflible to 
imagine almoft, that this fhould have fuch an 
^ffefl: as it had ; for the fowls would not only not 
come at the corn, but in fhort they forfook all that 
part of the ifland, and I could never fee a bird near 
the place as long as my fcarecrows hung there. 

This I was very glad of, you may be fure ; and 
about the latter end of December ^ which was our 
fecond harveft of the year, I reaped my corn. 

I was fadly put to it for a fey the or a fickle to cut 
it down, and all I could do was to make one as well 
as I could out of one of the broad fwords, or cutlafles, 
which I faved among the arms out of the fliip. How* 
ever, as my crop was but fmall, I had no great 
difficulty tp cut it down : in fhort, I reaped it my 
way, for I cut nothing off but the ears, and carried 
it away in a great bafket which I had made, and fo 
rubbed it out with my hands : and at the end of 
all ^ my harvefting I found, that out of my half- 
peck of feed, I had near two bufhels of rice, 
and above two bufhels and a half of barley, that 

L 2 is 



148 IIFE AND ADVENTURES 

IS to fay, by my guefs, for I had no meafure at 
that time. 

However, this was a great encouragement to me j 
and I forefaw,. that in time it would pleafe God tc^* 
fupply me with bread : and yet here I was perplexed 
again, for I neither knew how to grind or make 
meal of my corn, or indeed how to clean it, and 
part it ; nor, if made into meal, how to make bread 
of it ; and if how to make it, yet I knew not how 
to bake it. Thefe things being added to my defire 
of having a good quantity for ftore, and to fecure a 
conftant fupply, I refolved not to tafte any of this^ 
crop, but to preferve it all for feed againft the next 
feafon, and in the mean time to employ all my ftudy 
and hours of working to accomplifh this great work 
of providing myfelf with corn and bread. 

It might be truly faid, that I now worked for my 
bread. It is a little wonderful, and what I believe 
few people have thought much upon ; viz. the ftrange 
multitude of little things neceffary in the providing^ 
producing,, curing, dreffing, making, and finilhingy 
this one article of breaid» 

I, that was reduced to a m«re ftate of ^nature, 
found this to be my daily difcouragement, and was 
made more and more fenfible of it every hoiir, even 
after I got the firft handful of feed corn, which, as I 
have faid, came up unexpeftedly, and indeed to a 
furprife. 

Firft, I had no plough to turn the earth, no fpade 
or fliovel to dig it. Well, this I conquered by 
making a wooden fpade, as I obferved before ; but 
this did my work but in a wooden manner j and 

thougli^ 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1 49 

tliough it coft me a great many days to make It, yet 
for want of iron, it not only wore out the fooner, 
but made my work the harder, and made it be 
performed much worfel 

However, this I bore with too, and was content to 
work it out with patience, and bear with the badnefs 
of the performance* When the corn was fowed, I 
had no harrow, but was forced to go over it myfelf, 
and drag a great heavy bough of a tree over it, to 
fcratch the earth, as it may be called, rather than 
rake or harrow it. 

When it was growing or grown, I have obferved 
already how many things I wanted, to fence it, 
fecure it, mow or reap it, cure or carry it home, 
threfli, part it from the chaff, and fave it. Then I 
v^anted a mill to grind it, fieves to drefs it, yeaft 
and lalt to make it into bread, and an oven to bake 
it in ; and all thefe things I did without, as fhall be 
obferved ; and yet the corn was an ineftimable 
comfort and advantage to me too ; but all this, as 
I faid, made every thing laborious and tedious to 
me, but that there was no help for ; neither was my 
time fo much lofs to me, becaufe I had divided it ; 
a certain part of it was every day appointed to thefe 
works ; and as I refolved to ufe none of the corn 
for bread till I had a greater quantity by nae, I had 
the next fix months to apply myfelf wholly by labour 
and invention, ta furnifli myfelf with utenfils 
proper for the performing all the operations neeeflary 
for the making the corn, when I had it, fit for 
piy ufe. 

But firfl: I was to prepare more land, for I had 
jxow feed enough to fow above an acre of ground. 

L 3 Before 



150 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

Before I did this, I had a week's work at leaft to 
make me a fpade, which, when it was done, was a 
very forry one indeed, and very heavy, and required 
double labour to work with it ; however, I wept 
through that, and fowed my feeds in two large flat 
pieces of ground, as near my houfe as I could find 
them to my mind, and fenced- them in with a good 
hedge, the flakes of which were all cut off that wood 
which I had fet before, which I knew would grow, 
fo that in one year's time I knew I fhould have a 
quick or living hedge, that would want but little 
repair. This work was not fo little as to take me 
up lefs than three nionths ; becaufe great part of 
that time was in the wet feafon, when I could not go 
abroad. 

Within-door, that is, when it rained, and I could 
not go out, I found employment on the following 
Occafion, always obferving, that all the while I was 
at work, I diverted myfelf with talking to my 
parrot, and teaching him to fpeak ; and I quickly 
learnt him to know his own name ; at laft, to fpeak 
it out pretty loud, pol ; which was the firft word 
I ever heard fpoken in the ifland by any mouth but 
my own. This therefore was not my work, but an 
affiftant to my work ; for now, as I faid, I had a 
great employment upon my hands, as follows : viz. 
I had longftudied, by fome means or other, to make 
myfelf fome earthen veflels, which indeed I wanted 
forely, but knew not where to come at them : how- 
ever, confidering the heat of the climate, I did not 
doubt but, if I could find out any fuch clay, I 
might botch up fome fuch pot, as might, being 
dried by the fun, be hard enough, and ftrong 

- ' enough. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. I5I 

enough, to bear handling, and to hold any thing 
that was dry, and required to be kept fo ; and as 
this was neceff^ry in preparing corn, meal, &c. 
which was the thing I was upon, I refolved to 
make fome as large as I could, and fit only to ftand 
like jarrs to hold what Ihould be put into them. 

I would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh 
at me, to tell how many aukward ways I took to 
raife this pafte, what odd mif-fhapen ugly things I 
made, how many of them fell in, and how many 
fell out, the clay not being ftifF enough to bear its 
own weight ; how many cracked by the over-violent 
heat of the fun, being fet out too haftily ; and how 
many fell to pieces with only removing, as well 
before as after they were dried ; and, in a word, 
how, after having laboured hard to find the clay, 
to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home, and work 
it, I could not make above two large earthen ugly 
things, I cannot call them jarrs, in about two months 

labour^ 

> 

However, as the fun baked thefe two very dry and 
liard, I lifted them very gently up, and fet them 
down again in two great ^ wicker-balkets, which I 
hjki made on purpofe for them, that they might not 
break ; and, as between the pot and the bafket there 
was a little room to fpare, I fluffed it full of the 
rice and barley flraw ; and thefe two pots being 
to fland always dry, I thought would hold my dry 
corn, and perhaps the meal when the corn was 
bruifed. 

Though I mifcarried fo much in my defign for 
large pots, yet I made feyeral fmaller things with 
better fuccefe j fuch as little round pots, flat difhes, 

L 4 pitchers. 



15* 3LirE AND ADVENTURES 

pitchers, and pipkins, and any thing my hand 
turned to ; and the heat of the fun baked thenx 
ftrangely hard. 

. But all this would not anfwer my end, which was 
to get an earthen pot to hold what was liquid, and 
bear the fire, which none of thefe could do. It 
happened after fome time, making a pretty largq 
fire for cooking my meat, when I went to put it out, 
after I had done with it, I found a broken piece of 
one of my earthen ware veffels in the fire, burnt as 
hard as a ftone, and red as a tile. I was agreeably 
furprifed to fee it, and faid to myfelf, that certainly 
they might be made to burn whole, if they would 
burn broken. 

This fet me to ftudy how to order my fire, fo as to 
make it burn me fome pots. I had no notion of ^ 
kiln, fuch as the potters burn in, or of glazing them 
with lead, though I had fome lead to do it with ; but 
I placed three large pipkins, and two or three pots, 
in a pile one upon another, and placed my fire^wood 
all round it with a great heap of embers under 
them ;. I plied the fire with freih fuel round the 
outfide, and upon the top, till I faw the pots in the 
infide red hot quite through, and obferved that they 
did not crack at all : when I faw them clear red, I 
let them ftand in that heat about five or fix hours, 
. till I found one of them, though it did not crack, 
did melt or run; for the fand which was mixed 
with 'the clay melted by the violence of the heat, 
and would have run into glafs, if I had gone on j 
fo I flacked my fire gradually, till the pots began to 
abate of the red colour; and watching them all 
night, that I might not let the fire 'abate too fall, in 

the 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1 53 

the morning I had three very good, I will not fay 
bandfome pipkins, and two other earthen pots, 
as hard burnt as could be defired ; and one of 
them perfeflily glazed with the running of the 
fand. 

After this experiment I need not fay that I wanted 
no fort of earthen-ware for my ufe ; but I muft needs 
fay, as to the fhapes of them, they were very in- 
different, as any one may fuppofe, when I had no 
way of making them, but as the children make dirt^ 
pies, or as a woman would make pies that never 
Jearnt to raife pafte. 

No joy at a thing of fo mean a nature was ever 
equal to mine, when I found I had made an earthen 
pot that would bear the fire ; and I had -hardly 
patience to ftay till they were cold, before I fet one 
upon the fire again, with fome water in it, to boil 
me fome meat, which I did admirably well; and 
with a piece of a kid I made fome very good 
broth, though I wanted oatmeal, and feveral other 
ingredients requifite to make it fo good as I would 
have had it. 

My next concern was to get me a ftone mortar to 
(lamp or beat fome corn in ; for as to the mill, there 
was no thought of arriving to that perfeftion of art 
with one pair of hands. To fupply this want, I was 
at a great lofs ; for of all trades in the world I was 
as perfeftly unqualified for a ftone-cutter, as for any 
whatever J iieither had I any tools to go about it 
with. I fpent many a day to find out a great Hone 
big enough to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar, 
and could find none at all, except what was in the 
^plid ropk^^nd wl^ich I had no way to dig or cut out ; 

nor 



1^4 ^I'E AN^ ADVENTURES 

nor indeed were the rocks in the ifland of hardnefai 
fufficient, but w«re all of a fandy crumbling ftone, 
which would neither bear the weight of an heavy 
peftle, nor would break the com without filling it 
with fand ; fo, after a great deal of time loft in 
fearching for a ftone, I gave it over, and refolved to 
look out a great block of hard wood, which I found 
indeed much eafier ; and getting one as big as I had 
ftrength to ftir, I rounded it, and formed it on the 
outfide with my axe and hatchet ; and then with the 
help of fire and infinite labour, made an hollow 
place in it, as the Indians in Brajil make their 
canoes. After this, I made a great heavy peftle or 
beater, of the wood called the iron- wood, and this I 
prepared and laid by againft I had my next crop of 
corn, when I propofed to myfelf to grind, or rather 
pound, my corn or meal to make my bread. 

My next difficulty was to make a fieve or fierce, to 
drefs my meal, and part it from the bran and the huik, 
without which I did not fee it poffible I could have 
any bread. This was a moft difficult thing, fo much 
as but to think on ; for to be fure I had nothing like 
the neceffary things to make it with ; I mean fine 
thin canvafs, or fluff, to fierce the meal through^ 
And here I was at a full flop for many months ; nor 
did I really know what to do ; linen I had none left; but 
what was mere rags ; I had goat's hair, but neither 
knew I how to weave or fpin it ; and had I knowH 
how, here were no tools to work it with ; all the 
remedy that I found for this, was, thatat laftl did 
remember I had among the feamen's clothes which 
were faved out of the ftiip, fome neckcloths of callico 
or muflin j and y/ith fome pieces of thSfc I made 

three 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 15^ 

three fmall fieves, but proper enough for the work ; 
and thus I made fliift for fome years ; how I did 
afterwards, I fliall fliew in its place. 

The baking part was thenext thing to be confidered, 
and how I fhould make bread when I came to have 
corn ; for, firft, I had no yeaft : as to that part, 
there was no fupplying the want, fo I did not con- 
cern myfelf much about it. But for an oven, I was 
indeed in great pain. At length I found out an 
experiment for that alfo, which was this ; I made 
fome earthen veffels very broad, but not deep; that 
is to fay, about two feet diameter, and not above 
nine inches deep ; thefe I burnt in the fir<^, as I had 
done the other, and laid them by ; and when I>wanted , 
to bake, I made a great fire upon the hearth, which 
I had paved with fome fquare tiles of my own making 
and burning alfo ; but I (hould not call them fquare. 

When the fire-wood was burnt pretty much into 
embers, or live coals, I drew them forward upon 
this hearth, fo as to cover it all over ; and there I let 
them lie, till the hearth was very hot ; then fweeping 
away all the embers, I fet down my loaf, or 
loaves ; and whelming down the earthen pot upon 
them, drew the embers all round the outfide of the 
pot, to keep in, and add to the heat ; and thus, as 
well as in the bed ovei)L in the world, I baked my 
barley-loaves, and became in a little time a mere 
paftry-cook into the bargain ; for I made myfelf 
feveral cakes of the rice, and puddings f'indeed I 
made no pies, fieither had I any thing to put into 
them, fuppofing I had, except the flefli either of 
fowls or goats. 

It 



156 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

It need not be wondered at, if all thefe things took 
me up moft part of the third year of my abode here ; 
for it is to be obferved, that in the intervals of thefe 
things, I had my new harveft and hulbandry to 
manage : for I reaped my corn in its feafon, and 
carried it home as well as I could, and laid it up in the 
ear, in my large bafkets, till I had time to rub it out ; 
for I had no floor to threfh it on, or inftrument to 
threfli it with. 

And now indeed my ftock of corn increafmg, I 
really wanted to build my barns bigger : I wanted a 
place to lay it up in ; for the increafe of the corn now 
yielded me fo much, that I had of the barley about 
twenty bufliels, and of the rice as much, or more • 
infomuchthatl now refolved to be^in to ufe it freely, 
for my bre^d had been quite gone a great while ; 
alfo I refolved to fee what quantity would be fufficient 
for me a whole year, and to fow but once a year. 

Upon the whole, I found that the forty bufhels of 
barley and rice were much more than I could con-* 
fume in a year ; fo I refolved to fow juft the fame 
quantity every year that I fowed the laft, in hopes 
, that fuch a quantity would fully provide me with 
bread, &c.- 

All the while thefe things were doing, you may be 
fure my thoughts ran many times upon the profped^ 
of land which I had feen from the other fide of -the 
ifland ; and I was not without fecret wiflies, that 
I was on fhore there, fancying that feeing the 
mam land, and an inhabited country, I might find 
fome way or other to convey myfelf farther, ?in4 
perhaps at laft find fome means of efcape, 

But 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* t^y 

But all this while I made no allowance for the 
dangers of fuch a condition, and how I might fall 
into the hands of favages, and perhaps fuch as I 
might have reafon to think far worfe than the lions 
and tygers of Africa : that if I once came into their 
power, I fhould run an hazard more than a thoufand 
to otie of being killed, and perhaps of being eaten ; 
for I had heard that the people of the Caribean coafts 
were canibals, or men-eaters; and I knew by the 
latitude that I could not be far off from that Ihore : 
that, fuppofe they were not canibals, yet they might 
kill me, as many Europeans who had fallen into their 
hands had been ferved, even when they had been ten 
or twenty together ; much more I that was but one, 
and could make little or no defence. All thefe things, 
I fay, which I ought to have confidered well of, and 
I did caft up in my thoughts afterwards, yet took 
none of my apprehenfions at firft ; and my head 
ran mightily upon the thoughts of getting o^ei* to 
that fhore. 

Now I wifiied for my boy Xury^ and the long-boat^ 
with the fhoulder of mutton fail, with which I failed 
above a thoufand miles on th^ coaft of Africa; but 
this was in vain. Then I thought I would go and 
look on our fhip's boat, which, as I have faid, was 
blown up upon the fliore a gr^at way in the ftorm, 
when we were firft caft away. She lay almoft where 
fhe did at firft, but not quite ; and was turned by the 
force of the waves and the winds, almoft bottom 
upwards, againft the high ridge of a beachy rough, 
fand, but no water about her as before. 

If I had had hands to have refitted her, and have 
launched her into the water, the boat would have 

done 



l60 tl^E AND ADVEKTl/RE» 

This was a moft prepofterous method ; but the 
cagernefs of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went, 
and felled a cedar-tree : I queftion much whether 
thlomon ever had fuch an one for the building the 
t emple at Jerufalem ; it was five feet ten inches diaw 
raeter at the lower part next the flump, and four feet 
e leven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two feet, 
after which it leffened for a while, and then parted 
into branches : It was not without infinite labour 
that I felled this tree : I was twenty days hacking 
a:iid hewing at it at the bottom ; I was fourteen more 
getting the branches and limbs, and the vaft fpread- 
ing head of it cut off, which I hacked and hewed 
through with my axe and hatchet, with inexpreffible 
labour: after this it coft me a month to fhape it, 
and dub it to a proportion, and to fomething like the 
bottom of a boat, that it might fwim upright as it 
ought to do. It coft me near three months. more to 
clear the infide, and work it out fo as to make*an 
exaO: boat of it : this I did indeed without fire, by 
mere mallet and chiffel, and by the dint of hard 
labour ; till I had brought it to be a very handfome 
periagua, and big enough to have carried fix and 
twenty men, and confequently big enough to have 
carried me and all my cargo. 

When I had gone through this work, I was; 
extremely delighted with it : the boat was really 
much bigger than I ever faw a canoe or periagua, 
tliat was made of one tree, in my life ; many a weary 
ftroke it had coft, you may be fure, for there 
remained nothing but to get it into the water ; and 
had I gotten it into the water, I make no queftiort 
but I Ihould have begun the madeft voyage, and the 

moft. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, x6l 

jnoft unlikely to be performed, that ever was under- 
taken. 

But all my devices to get it into the water failed 
me, though they coft infinite labour too; it lay 
about one hundred yards from the water, and not 
more ; but the firft inconvenience was, it was up 
hill towards the creek : Well, to take away this dif- 
couragement, I refolved to dig into the furface of the 
earth, and fo make a declivity ; this I began, and it 
coft me a prodigious deal of pains : but who grudge 
pains, that have their deliverance in view ? but 
when this was worked through, and this difficulty 
managed, it was ftill much at one; for I could no 
more ftir the canoe, than I could the other boat. 

Then I meafured the diftance of ground, and 
refolved to cut a dock, or canal, to bring the water 
up to the canoe, feeing I could not bring the canoe 
down to the water : Well, I began this work, and 
whAi I began to enter into it, and calculated how 
deep it was to be dug, how broad, how the fluff to 
be thrown out, I found, that by the number of hands 
I had, being none but my own, it muft have been 
ten or twelve years before I fliould have gone through 
with it ; for the fliore lay high, fo that at the upper 
end it muft have been at leaft twenty feet deep ; fo 
at length, though with great reludancy, I gave this 
attempt over alfot 

This grieved me heartily, and now I faw, though 
too late, the folly of beginning a work before we 
count the coft, and before we judge rightly of our 
own ftrength to go through with it. 

In the middle of this work I finifhed my fourth 
year in this place, and kept my anniverfary with the 

Vol. I. M feme 



^^. 



l62 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

fame devotion, and with as much comfort, as ev^ 
before ; for by a conftant ftudy, and ferious applica- 
tion of the word of God, and by the afllftance of his 
grace, I gained a different knowledge from what I had 
before ; I entertained different notions of things ; I 
looked now upon the w^orld as a thing remote ; which 
I had nothing to do with, no expectation frcHn, and 
indeed no defires about : in a word, I had nothing in- 
deed todowith it,nor v/aseverHke tohave; fo I thought 
it looked as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter ; 
viz. as a place I had lived in, but was come out of 
it ; and well I might fay, as father Abraham ta 
Dives J Between me and thee there is a great gulph 
fixed. 

In the firft place, I was removed from all the 
wickednefs of the world here: I had neither the luft 
of the flefh, the luft of the eye, or the pride of life r 
I had nothing to covet, for I had all I was now capa- 
ble of enjoying : I was lord of the whole manor, or, 
if I pleafed, I might call myfelf king or emperor over 
the whole country which I had poffeffion of: there 
were no rivals : I had no competitor, none to difpute 
fovereignty or command with me ;- I might have 
raifed ftiip-Ioadings of corn, but I had no ufe for it ; 
fo I let as little grow as I thought enough for my 
occafion; I had tortoifes, or turtles enough; but now 
and then one was as much as I could put to any ufe :: 
I had timber enough to have built a fleet of ftiips ; I 
had grapes enough to have made wine, or to have 
cured into raifms, to have loaded that fleet when 
they had been built. 

But all I could make ufe of, was all that was valu- 
able : I had enough to eat, and to fupply my wants,. 

and 



bF ROBINSON CRUSOE; iG;^ 

and what was all the reft to me ? If I killed more 
flefh than I could eat, the dog muft ^at it, or the 
vermin; if I fowed more corn than I could eat, it 
ttiuft be fpoiled : The trees that I cut down were 
lying to rot on the ground, I could make no more 
ufe of them than for fuel ; and that I had no occafioii 
for, but to drefs my food. 

In a word, the nature and experience of things 
didated to me upon juft refleftion, that all the good 
things of thi« world are no farther good to us, than as 
they are for our ufe : and that whatever we may heap 
up indeed to give to others, we enjoy as much as we 
can ufe, and no more. The moft covetous griping 
mifer in the world would have been cured of the vice 
of covetoufnefs, if he had been in my cafe ; for I 
poffefTed infinitely more than I knew what to do with. 
i had no room for defire, except it was of things 
which I had not, and they were but trifles, though 
indeed of great ufe to me. I had, as I hinted before, 
a parcel of money, as well gold as filver, about thirty- 
fix pounds fterling j alas ! there the nafty forry ufelefs 
ftuff lay ; I had no manner of bufinefs for it ; and I 
often thought with myfelf, that I would have given 
an handful of it for a groce of tobacco-pipes, or for an 
hand-mill to grind my corn ; nay, I would have given 
it all for fixpenny-v/orth of turnip and carrot feed out 
of Englandy or for an handful of peas and beans, and 
a bottle of ink : as it was, I had not the leaf!: advan- 
tage by it, or benefit from it ; but there it lay in a 
drawer, and grew mouldy with the damp of the cave, 
in the wet feafon ; and if I had had the drawer full of 
diamonds, it had been the fame cafe ; and they had 
been of no manner of value to me, becaufe of no ufe. 

M 2 I had 



164 ^^^^ -^ND ADVENTURER 

I had now brought my (late of life to be much eafier 
in itfelf than it was at firft, and much eafier to my 
mind, as well as to my body. I frequently fat down 
to my meat with thankfulnefs, and admired the hand 
of God's providence, which had thus fpread my table 
in the wildernefs : I learned to look more upon the 
bright fide of my condition, and lefs upon the dark 
fide ; and to confider what I enjoyed, rather than 
what I wanted j and this gave me fometimes fuch 
fecret comforts, that I cannot exprefs them ; and 
which I take notice of here, to put thofe difcontented 
people in mind of it,, who cannot enjoy comfortably 
what God hath given them, becaufe they fee and 
covet fomething that he has not given them : all our 
difcontents about what we want, appeared to me to 
fpring from the want of thankfulnefs for what we have. 

Another refleftion was of great ufe to me, and 
doubtlefs would be fo to any one that Ihould fall into 
fuch diftrefs as mine was ; and this was, to compare 
my prefent condition with what I at firft expefted it 
fliould be ; nay, with what it would certainly have 
been, if the good providence of God had not won- 
derfully ordered the fliip to be caft up near to the 
Ihore, where I not only could come at her, but could 
bring what I got oVit oJF her to the fliore for my relief 
and comfort j without which I had wanted tools to 
work, weapons for defence, or gunpowder and (hot 
for getting my food. 

Ifpent.whole hours, I may fay whole days, in 
reprefenting to myfelf in the moft lively colours, how 
I muft have afted, if I had got nothing out of the 
Ihip } how I could not have fo much as got any food, 
except fifh and turtles j and that, as it was long before 

I found 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.^ 1 65 

I found any of them, I muft have periflied firft : that 
I fhould have lived, if I had not periflied, like a mere 
favage : that if I had killed a goat or a fowl by any 
contrivance, I had no way to flay or open them, or 
part the flefli from the fldn and the bowels, or to cut 
it up ; but muft: gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it 
with my claws, like a beaft. 

Thefe refleftionsmade me very fenfible of the good- 
nefs of Providence to me, and very thankful for my 
prefent condition, with all its hardfliips and misfor- 
tunes : and this part alfo I cannot but recommend to 
the refleftion of thofe who are apt in their mifery to 
fay. Is any affliftion like mine ? let them confider, 
how much worfe the cafes of fome people are, and 
what their cafe might have been, if Providence had 
thought fit. 

I had another refledlion which aflifl:ed me alfo to 
comfort my mind with hopes j and this was, com. 
paring my prefent condition with what I had 
deferved, and had therefore reafon to expefl: from 
the hand of Providence ; I had lived a dreadful life, 
perfectly defl:itute of the knowledge and fear of God : 
I had been well infl:ru£ted by father and mother j 
neither had they been wanting to me in their early 
endeavours, to infufe a religious awe of God into 
my mind, a fenfe of my duty, and of what the nature 
and end of my being required of me : But, alas ! 
falling early into the feafaring life, which of all the 
lives is the mofl: deftitute of the fear of Goi3, though 
bis terrors are always before them; I fay, falling 
early into the feafaring life, and into feafaring com- 
pany, all that little fenfe of religion which I had 
€i}tprtained, was laughed out of me by my meflmatesj 

M 3 by 



l66 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

by an hardened defpifing of dangers, and the view? 
of death, which grew habitual to me ; by my long 
abfence from all manner of opportunities to converfe 
with any thing but what was like myfelf, or to 
hear any thing of what was good, or tended to- 
wards it. 

So void was I of every thing that was good, or of 
the leaft fenfe of what I was, or was to be, that in 
the greateft deliverance I enjoyed, fuch as my efcape 
h'omSallee^ my being taken up by ihePortugue/em^fter 
of the fhip, my being planted fo well in Brafil^ my 
receiving the cargo from England, and the like, \ 
never once had the words, thank God fo much as on 
my mind, or in my mouth ; nor in the greateft dif- 
trefs, had I fo much thought as to pray to him ; nor 
fo much as to fay. Lord, have mercy upon me ! No, 
not to mention the name of God, unlefs it was to 
fwear by, and blafpheme it^ 

I had terrible refleftions upon my mind for many 
months, as I have already obferved, on the account 
of my wicked and hardened life paft ; and when I 
looked about me, -and confidered what particular 
providences had attended me, fince my coming into 
this place, and how God had dealt bountifully with 
me ; had not only punifhed me lefs than my iniquity 
deferved, but had fo plentifully provided for me^ 
this gave me great hopes that my repentance was 
accepted, and that God had yet mercies in ftore 
for me. 

With thefe refleftions I worked my mind up, not 
only to refignation to the will of God in the prefent 
difpofition of my circumftances, but even to a fmcere 
thankfulnefs of my condition ; and that I, who was 
yet a living man, ought not to complain, feeing I 

had 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 167 

had not the due punifliment of my fins; that I 
enjoyed fo many mercies, which I had no reafon to 
have expefted in that place, that I ought never more 
to repine at my condition, but to rejoice, and to 
give daily thanks, for that daily bread, which no- 
thing but acloud of wonders could have brought: that 
I ought to confider I had })een fed even by a miracle, 
even as great as that of feeding Elijah by ravens ; nay, 
by a long feries of miracles ; and that I could hardly 
have named a place in the uninhabited part of the 
world, where I could have been caft more to my 
advantage : a place, where as I had no fociety, which 
was my afflidion on one hand, fo I found no ravenous 
beafts, no furious wolves or tygers, to threaten my 
life ; no venomous creatures, or poifonous, which 
I might have fed on to my hurt, no favages to murder 
and devour me. 

In a word, as my, life was a life of fojrow one 
way, fo it was a life of mercy another ; and I wanted 
nothing to make it a life of comfort, but to be able 
to make ray fenfe of God's goodnefs to me, and care 
over me in this condition, be my daily confolation j 
and after I made a juft improvement of thefe things, 
I went away, and was no more fad. 

I had now been here fo long, that many things 
, which I brought on fliore for my help, were either 
quite gone, or very much wafted, and near fpent. 

My ink, as I obf^rved, had been gone for fome 
lime, all but a very little, which I eked out with 
water a little and a little, till it was fo pale it fcarce 
left any appearance of black upon the paper : as long 
as it lafted, I made ufe of it to minute down the days 
of the month on whicli any remarkable thing hap- 

M 4 pened 



l68 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

pened to me ; and firft, by cafting up times paft, I 
remember that there was a ftrange concurrence of 
days, in the various providences which befel me, 
and which, if I had been fuperftitioufly inclined to 
obferve days as fatal or fortunate, I might have had 
reafon to have looked upon with a great deal of 
curiofity. 

Firft, I had obferved, that the fame day that I 
broke away from my father and my friends, and ran 
away to Hull in order to go to fea, the fame day 
afterwards I was taken by the Sallee man of war, and 
made a flave. 

The fame day of the year that I efcaped out of the 
wreck of that fliip in Tarmouth Roads , that fame day 
of the year afterwards I made my efcape from Sallee 
in the boat. 

The fame day of the year I was born on, viz. the 
2oth of September y the fame day I bad my life fo mira- 
culoufly faved 26 years after, when I was caft on ftiore 
in this ifland ; fo that my wicked life, and folitary 
life, both began on a day. 

The next thing to my ink's being wafted, was that 
of my bread, I mean the bifcuit which I brought out 
of the fliip : This I had hufbanded to the laft degree, 
allowing myfelf but one cake of bread a day, for 
above a year : and yet I was quite without bread for 
a y6ar before I got any corn of my own ; and great 
reafon I had to be thankful that I had any at all, the 
getting it being, as has been already obferved, next 
to miraculous. 

My clothes too began to decay mightily : as. to 
linen, I had none a good while, except fome che- 
quered Ihirts which I found in the-chefts of the other 

feam^ni 



/ 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1 69 

fcamen, and which I carefully preferved, becaufe 
many times I could bear no other clothes on but a 
fliirt ; and it was a very great help to me, that I 
had among all the men's clothes of the Ihip ahnoft 
three dozen of fliirts. There were alfo feveral thick 
watch-coats of the feamen, which were left behind, 
but they were too hot to wear ; and though it is 
true, that the weather was fo violent hot, that there 
was no need of clothes, yet I could not go quite 
naked ; no, though I had been inclined to it, which 
I was not ; nor could I abide the thoughts of it, 
though I was all alone. 

One reafon why I could not go quite naked, was, 
I could not bear the heat of the fun fo well when 
quite naked, as with fome clothes on ; nay, the very 
heat frequently bliftered my Ikin; whereas, with a 
fhirt on, the 'air itfelf made fome motion, and whifl- 
ling under the fhirt, was twofold cooler than without 
it : no more could I ever bring myfelf to go out in 
the heat of the fun without a cap or an hat ; the heat 
of the fun beating with fuch violence as it does in that 
place, would give me the head-ach prefently, by 
darting fo directly on my head, without a cap or hat 
on, fo that I couki not bear it ; whereas, if I put 
on my hat, it would prefently go away. 

Upon thefe views I began to confider about putting 
the few rags I had, which I called clothes, into fome 
order ; I had worn out all the waiftcoats I had, and 
my bufmefs was now to try if I could not make 
jackets out of the great watch coats which I had by 
me, and with fuch other materials as I had ; fo I fet 
to work a tailoring, or rather indeed a botching ; 
for I made moll piteous work of it. However, I 

made 



lyo LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

made fliift to make two or three waiftcoats, which I 
hoped would ferve me a great while ; as for breeches 
or drawers, I made but very forry fhlft indeed, till 
afterwards. 

I have mentioned that I faved the f^ins of all the 
creatures that I killed, I mean four-footed ones ; and 
1 had hung them up ftretched out with fticks in the 
fun ; by which means fome of them were fo dry and 
hard, that they were fit for little; but others, it 
feems, were very ufeful. The firft thing I made of 
thefe was a great cap for my head, with the hair on 
the outfide to fhoot off the rain ; and this I performed 
fo well, that after this I made a fuit of clothes wholly 
of thofe Ikins ; that is to fay, a waiftcoat and breeches 
open at the knees, and both loofe ; for they were 
rather wanted to keep me cool, than to keep me 
warm. I muft not omit to acknowledge, that they 
were wretchedly made ; for if I was a bad carpenter, 
I was a worfe taylor : however, they were fuch 
as I made a very good fliift with ; and when I was 
abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of the waift- 
coat and cap being outmoft, I was kept very dry. 

After this I fpent a deal of time and pains to make 
me an umbrella : I was indeed 'in great want of 
one, and had a great mind to make one : I had feen 
them made in the Brajih^ where they are very ufeful 
in the great heats which are there ; and I felt the 
heats every jot as great here, and greater too, being 
nearer the. equinox ; befides, as I was obliged to be 
much abroad, it was a moft ufeful thing to me, as 
well for the rains as the heats. I took a world of 
pains at it, and was a great while before I could 
make any thing likely to hold ; nay, after I thought 

I had 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. I7I 

I had hit the way, I fpoiled two or three before I 
made one to my mind ; but at laft I made one tha^ 
anfwered indifferently well ; the main difficuhy I 
found was to make it to let down. I could make it 
to fpread ; but if it did not let down too, and draw 
in, it would not be portable for me any way, butjuft 
over my head, which would not do : However, at 
laft, as I faid, I made one to anfwer ; I covered it 
with {kins, the hair upwards, fo that it caft off the 
rain like a penthoufe, and kept off the fun fo effec- 
tually, that I could walk out in the hotteft of the 
weather, with greater advantage than I could before 
in the cooleft ; and when I had no need of it, I could 
,ciofe it, and carry it under my arm. 

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being 
entirely compofed by refigning to the will of God, 
and throwing myfelf wholly upon the difpofal of his 
providence : this made my life better than fociable ; 
for when I began to regret the want of converfation, 
I would afk myfelf, whether thus converling mutually 
with my own thoughts, and, as I hope, I may fay, 
v/ith even my Maker, by ejaculations and petitions, 
was not better than the utmoft enjoyment of human 
fociety in the world ? 

I cannot fay, that after this, for five years, any 
extrordiiiary thing happened to me ; but I lived on 
in the fame courfe, in the fame pofture and place, 
jiift as before : the chief thing I was employed in, 
befides my yearly labour of planting my barley and 
rice, and curing my raifms, of both which I aUvays 
kept up juft enough to have fufEcient ftock of the 
year's provifions beforehand ; I fay, befides this 
yearly labour, and my daily labour of going out with 

my 



172 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

my gun, 1 had one labour to make me a canoe, which 
at laftl finifhed : fo that by digging a canal to it, fix 
feet wide, and four feet deep, 1 brought it into the 
creek, almoft half a mile. As for the firft, that was 
fo vaftly big, as I made it without confidering before- 
hand, as I ought to do, how I fhould be able to 
launch it ; fo never being able to bring it to the 
water, or bring the water to it, I was obliged to let 
it lie where it was, as a memorandum to teach me 
to be wifer next time. Indeed the next time, though 
I could not get a tree proper for it, and was in a 
place where I could not get the water to it, at any 
lefs diftance than, as I havefaid, of near half a mile; 
yet as I faw it was prafticable at laft, I never gave it 
over ; and though I was near two years about it, yet 
I never grudged my labour, in hopes of having q. 
boat to go off to fea at laft. 

However, though my little periagua was finifhed, 
yet the fize of it was not at all anfwerable to the de- 
fign which I had in view, when I made the firft ; I 
mean of venturing over to the Terra Firma, where 
it was above forty miles broad ; accordingly, the 
fmallnefs of myboataflifted to put an end to that defign, 
and now I thought no more of it : But as I had a 
boat, my next defign was to make a tour round the 
ifland ; for as I had been on the other fide, in one 
place, croffing, as I have already defcribed it, over 
the land, fo the difcoveries I made in that journey 
made me very eager to fee the other parts of the 
coaft ; and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing 
but failing round the ifland. 

For this purpofe, and that I might do every thing 
with difcretion and confideration, I fitted up a little 

mafl 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* 1 73 

maft to my boat, and made a fail to it out of fome 
of the pieces of the fliip's fails, which lay in (lore, 
and of which I had a great (lore by me. 

Having fitted my maft and fail, and tried the 
boat, I found ftie would fail very well : Then I 
made little lockers and boxes at each end of my 
boat, to put provifions, neceflaries, and ammunition, 
&c. into, to be kept dry, either from rain, or the 
fpray of the fea; and a little long hollow place 
I cut in the infide of the boat, where I could lay 
my gun, making a flap to hang down over it to keep 
it dry. 

I fixed my umbrella alfo in a ftep at the ftern, like 
a maft, to ftand over my head, and keep the heat 
of the fun off me, like an awning; and thus I every 
now and then took a little voyage upon the fea, but 
never went far out, nor far from the little creek; 
but at laft, being eager to view the circumference of 
my little kingdom, I refolved upon my tour, and 
accordingly I viftualled my fhip for the voyage;, 
putting in two dozen of my loaves (cakes I fhould 
rather call them) of barley-bread ; an earthen pot 
full of parched rice, a food I eat a great deal of, a 
little bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder with 
fliot for killing more, and two large watch-coats, of 
thofe which, as I mentioned before, I had faved out 
of the feamen's chefts ; thefe I took, one to lie upon, 
and the other to cover me in the night. 

It was the fixth of November^ in the fixth year of 
my reign, or my captivity, which you pleafe, that I 
fet out on this voyage, and I found it much longer 
than I expefted ; for though the ifland itfelf was not 
very large, yet when I came to the eaft fide of it, I 



174 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

found a great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues 
into the fea, fome above v^rater, fome under it ; 
and beyond this a fhoal of fand, lying dry half a 
league more ; fo that I was obliged to go a great way 
out to fea to double that point. 

When 1 firft difcovered them, I was going to give 
over my enterprize, and come back again, not 
knowing how far it might oblige me to go out to 
fea, and above all, doubting how I fhould get back 
again ; fo I came to an anchor, for I had made me a 
kind of an anchor with a piece of broken grappling 
which I got out of the fhip. 

Having fecured my boat, I took my gun, and 
went on (hore, climbing up an hill, which feemed to 
overlook that point, where I faw the full extent of 
it, and refolved to venture* 

In my viewing the fea from that hill where I flood, 
I perceived a ftrong, and indeed, a moft furious 
current, which ran to the eaft, even came clofe to 
the point ; and I took the more notice of it, becaufe 
I faw there might be fome danger,, that when I came 
into it, I might be carried out to fea by the ftrength 
of it, and not be able to make the ifland again : And 
indeed, had I not gotten firft upon this hill, I believe 
it would have been fo ; for there was the fame current 
on the other fide of the ifland, only that it fee it off" 
at a farther diftance ; and I faw there was a ftrong 
eddy under the fliore ; fo I had nothing to do but to 
get out of the firft current, and I fhould prefently be 
in an eddy. 

I lay here, however, two days ; becaufe the wand 
blowing pretty frefli (E. at S. E. and that being juft 
contrary to thefaid current) made a great .breach of 

the 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. I75 

the fea upon the point ; fo that it w;as not fafe for 
me to keep too clofe to the ihore for the breach, nor 
to go too far off becaufe of the ftream. 

The third day in the morning, the wind having 
abated over night, the fea was calm, and I ventured ; 
but I am a warning-piece again to all raih and ignorant 
pilots ; for ifo fooner was I come to the point, when 
I was not my boat's length from the fliore, but 
I found myfelf in a great depth of water, and a 
current like a fluice of a mill: It carried my boat 
alono- with it v/ith fuch violence, that all I could do 
could not keep her fo much as on the edge of it : but 
I found it hurried me farther and farther out from the 
eddy, whic^h was on the left hand. There was no 
wind ftirring to help me, and all that I could do with 
my paddles fignified nothing; and now I began to 
give myfelf over for loft ; for, as the current was on 
both fides the ifland, I knew in a few leagues diftance 
they muft join again, and then I was irrecoverably 
gone ; nor did I fee any poffibility of avoiding it ; fo 
that I had no profpefl before me but of perifliing ; 
not by the fea, for that was calm enough, but of 
ftarving for hunger. I had indeed found a tortoife 
on the Ihore, as big almoft as I could lift, and had 
toffed it into the boat ; and I had a great jar of frefli 
water, that is to fay, one of my earthen pots ; but 
v/hat was all this to being driven into the vaft ocean, 
where, to be fure, there was no fliore, no main land 
or ifland, for a thoufand leagues at leaPc ! 

And now I faw how eafy is was for the providence 
of God to m.ake the moft miferable condition that 
mankind could be in, worfe. Now I looked back 
upon my defolate folitary ifland, as the moft 

pleafant 



ty6 LITE AND ADVENTURES 

plafant place in the world, and all the happinefs my 
heart could wifh for, was to be there again : I ftretched 
out my hands to it with eager wiflies ; O happy 
defart ! faid I, I fliall never fee thee more ; O 
miferable creature ! faid I, whither am I going ! 
then I reproached myfelf with my unthankful temper, 
and how I had repined at my folitary condition ; and 
now what would I give to be on* fhore there again ? 
Thus we never fee the true flate of our condition, 
till it is illuftrated to us by its contraries ; nor know 
how to value what we enjoy, but by the want of it : 
it is fcarce poflible to imagine the confternation I was 
now in, being driven from my beloved ifland (for fo 
it appeared to me now to be) into the wide ocean, 
almufl two leagues, and in the utmoft defpair of ever 
recovering it again : however, I v/orked hard, till 
indeed my flrength was almoft exhaufted ; and kept 
my boat as much to the northward, that is, towards 
the fide of the current which the eddy lay on, as 
poffibly I could ; when about noon, as the fun paffed 
the meridian, I thought I felt a little breeze of wind 
in my face, fpringing up from the S. S. E. This 
cheared my heart a little, and efpecially when in 
about half an hour more it blew a pretty fmall gentle 
gale : by this time I was gotten at a frightful diftance 
from the ifland ; and, had the leaft cloud or hazy 
weather intervened, I had been undone another way 
too ; for I had no compafs on board, and fliould 
never have known how to have fleered towards the 
ifland, if I had but dnce loft fight of it; but the 
weather continuing^ clear, I applied myfelf to get up 
my maft. again, and fpread my fail, ftanding away 
to the north as much as poflible, to get out of the 
current. 

Juft 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, , I77 

Juft as I had fet my iiiaft and fail, and the boat 
began to ftretch away, I faw even by the clearnefs of 
the water, fome alteration of the current was near; 
for where the current was fo ftrong, the water was 
foul ; but perceiving the water clear, I found the 
current abate, and prefently I found to the eaft, at 
about half a mile, a breach of the fea upon fome 
rocks ; thefe rocks I found caufed the current to 
part again ; and as the main ftrefs of it ran away 
more foutherly, leaving the rocks to the north-eaft, 
fo the other returned by the repulfe of the rock, and 
made a ftrong eddy, which ran back again to the 
north-weft with a very (harp ftream. 

They who know what it is to have a reprieve 
brought to them upon the ladder, or to be refcued 
from thieves juft going to murder them, or who have 
been- in fuch like extremities, may guefs \^'hat my 
prefent furprize of joy was, and how gladly I put 
my boat into the ftream of this eddy ; and the wind 
alfo frefliening, how gladly I fprdad my fail to it, 
running chearfuUy before the wind, and with a ftrong 
tide or eddy under foot. 

This eddy carried me about a league in my way 
back again direftly towards the ifland, but about, 
two leagues more towards the northward than the 
current lay, which carried me away at firft ; fo that 
when I came near the ifland, I found myfelf open 
to the northern fhore of it, that is tg fay, the other 
end of the ifland, oppofite to that which I went out 
from. 

When I had made fomething more than a league of 
way by the help of this current or eddy, I found it 
was fpent, and faved me no farther. However I 

Vol. I. N found, 



178 LIFE AND ADVENTURED 

found, that being between the- two great current^ 
viz. that on the fouth-fide which had hurried me 
away, and that on the north, which lay about two 
leagues on the other fide j I fay, between thefe two, 
in the weft of the ifland, I found the water at leaft 
ftill, and running no way ; and having ftill a breeze 
of wind fair for me, I kept on fleering directly for 
the ifland, though not making fuch frefh way as I 
did before. 

About four o'clock in the evening, being then 
within about a league of the ifland, I found the point 
of the rocks which occafioned this diftance ftretching 
out as is defcribed before, to the fouthward, and 
cafting oflf the current more fouthwardly, had of 
courfe made another eddy to the north, and this I 
found very ftrong, but diredly fetting the way my 
courfe lay, which was due ^yeft, but almofl full 
north. However, having a frefli gale, I ftretched 
acrofs this eddy, flaming north weft, and in 
about an • hour came within about a mile of the 
fhore, where, it being fmooth water, I foon got 
to land. 

When I was on fhore, I fell on my knees, and 
gave God thanks for my deliverance, refolving to 
lay afide all thoughts of my deliverance by my boat j 
and refrefliing myfelf with fuch things as I had, I 
brought my boat clofe to the fliore, in a little cove 
that I had efpied under fome trees, and laid me down 
to fleep, being quite fpent with the labour and fatigue 
of the voyage. 

I was now at a great lofs which way to get home 
with my boat ; I had ran fo much hazard, and knew 
too much the cafe to think of attempting it by the 

way 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1 79 

^hLy I went out ; and what might be at the other fide 
(I mean the weft-fide) I knew not, nor had I any 
mind to run any more ventures ; fo I only refolved 
in the morning to make my way weftward along the 
fhore^ and to fee if there was no creek where I might 
lay up my frigate in fafety, fo as to have her again 
if I wanted her. In about three miles, or thereabouts,, 
coafting the Ihore, I came to a very good inlet, or 
bay, about a mile over, which narrowed till it came 
to a very little rivulet, or brook, where I found a 
convenient harbour for my boat, and where fhe lay 
as if fhe had been in a little dock made on purpofe 
for her ; herp I put in, and having flowed my boat 
very fafe, I went on fliore to look about me, and fee 
where I was. 

I foon found I had but a little pafled by the place 
where I had been before when I travelled on foot to 
that ftiore ; fo taking nothing out of my boat but my 
gun and my umbrella, for it was exceeding hot, I 
began my march : the way was comfortable enough 
after fuch a voyage as I had been upon, and I reached 
my old bower in the evening, where I found every 
thing ftanding as I left it ; for I always kept it in 
good order, being, as I faid before, my country- 
houfe. 

I got over the fence, and laid me down in the 
fhade to reft my limbs, for I was very weary, and 
fell afleep : • but judge you, if you can, that read my 
ftory, what a furprize I muft be in, when I was 
awaked out of my fleep by a voice calling me by my 
name feveral times, Robin, Robin, Robin Crufoe, 
poor Robin Crufoe ! Where are you, Robin Crufoe ? 
IVhere are you ? Where have you been ? 

N 2 I Vf ^^ 



l8o LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

I was fo dead afleep at firft, being fatigued with 
rowing, or paddling, as it is called, the firjft part of 
the day, and walking the laiter part, that I did not 
awake thoroughly ; and dozing between fleeping and 
waking, thought I xlreamed that Ibmebody fpoke to 
me : but • as the voice continued to repeat Robin 
Crufoe, Robin Grufoe; at laft I. began to awake 
more perfectly, and was at fir/t. dreadfully frighted, 
and fuirted up in the. utmoft confternation : but no 
fooner were my eyes open, but I faw my pol fitting 
on the top of the hedge, and immediately knew that 
this was he that fpoke to me; for juft in fuch 
bemoaning language I had ufed to talk to him, and 
teach him ; and he had learned it fo perfeflly, that 
he would fit upon my finger, and lay his bill clofe 
to my; facey and cry, Poor Robin Crufoe, Where 
are you?. Where have you been? How came you 
here ? and fuch things as I had taught him. 

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, 
and that indeed it could be nobody elfe, it w^as a good 
while before I could compofe myfelf. Firft, I was 
amazed how the creature got thither, and then how 
he iOiould juft keep about the place, and no where 
elfe : but as I was well fatisfied it could be nobody 
but honeft pol, I got it over ; and holding out my 
hand, and calling him by his name, pol, the fociable 
creature came to me, and fat upon my thumbs as 
he ufed to do, and continued talking to me. Poor 
Robin Crufoe, and, how did I come here? and^ 
where had I been ? juft as if he had been overjoyed 
to fee me again ; and fo I carried him home along 
with me. 

I had 



GF ROBINSON CRUSOE. l8l 

I had now had enough of rambling to fea for feme 
time, and had enough to do for many days to fit ftill, 
and refleO: upon the danger I had been in : I would 
have been very glad to have had my boat again oa 
my fide of the ifland, but I knew not how it was 
prafticable to get it about : as to the eaft-fide of the 
ifland, which I had gone round, I knew well enough 
there was no venturing that way; my very heart 
would fhrink, and my very blood run chill, but to 
think of it : and to the other fide of the ifland, I did 
jiot know how it might be there j but fuppofing the 
current ran with the fame force againft the (hore at 
the eaft, as it pafled by it on the other, I might run 
the fame rifque of being driven down the ftream, and 
carried by the ifland, as I had been before of being 
carried away from it j fo with thefe thoughts I con- 
tented myfelf to be without any boat, though it had 
been the produdt of fo many months labour to make 
it, and of fo many moreJ to get into the fea« 

In this government of my temper I remained near 
a year, lived a very fedate retired life, as you may 
well fuppofe ; and my thoughts being very much 
compofed, as to my condition, and fully comforted 
in refigning myfelf to the difpofitions of Providence, 
I thought I lived really very happily in all things, 
except that of fociety. 

I improved myfelf, in this time, in all the mechanic 
exercifes which my neceflities put me upon applying 
myfelf too ; and I believe could, upon occafion, have 
made a very good carpenter, efpecially. confidering 
how few tools I had. 

Befides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfcftion 

in my earthen ware, and contrived well enough to 

N 3 make 



l82 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

make them with a wheel, which I found infinitely 
eafier and better ; becaufe I made things round and 
fliapeable, which before were filthy things indeed to 
look on. But I think I never was more vain of m.y 
own performance, or more joyful for any thing I 
found out, than for my being able to make a tobacco- 
pipe ; and though it was a very ugly clumfy thing 
when it was done, and only burnt red like other 
earthen-ware, y^t as it was hard aild firm, and would 
draw th^ fmoke^ I was exceedingly comforted with 
it ; for I had befen always ufed to fmoke, and there 
were pipes in tne fhip, but I forgot them at firft, not 
knowing there was tobacco in the ifland ; and after- 
wards, when I fearched the ihip again, I could not 
come at any pipes at all. 

In my wicker-ware I alfo improved much, and 
made abundance of neceffary balkets, as well as my 
invention fliewed me, though not very handfome, 
yet convenient for my laying things up in, or fetching 
things home in. For example, if I killed a goat 
abroad, I could hang it up in a tree, :flay it, and 
drefs it, and cut it in pieces, and bring it home in a 
bafket ; and the like by a turtle, I could cut it up, 
take out the eggs, and a piece or two of the flefh, 
which was enough for me, and bring them home in 
a bafket, and leave the reft behind me : alfo large 
deep balkets were my receivers for my corn, which I 
always rubbed out as foon as it was dry, and cured ; 
and kept it in great bafkets inftead of a granary. 

I began now to perceive my powder abated con- 
fidetably ; and this was a want which it was 
impoffible for njie to fupply, and I began ferioufly to 
confider what I muft do when I fhpuld have no more 

powder ; 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 183 

powder ; that is to fay, how I fhould do to kill any 
goats. I had, as I obferved, in the third year of 
my being here, kept a young kid, and bred her tame % 
I was in hopes of getting an he kid, but I could not 
by any means bring it to pafs, till my kid grew an 
old goat ; and I could never find in my heart to kill 
her, till fhe died at laft of mere age. 

But being now in the eleventh year of my refidence> 
and, as I have faid, my ammunition growing low, I 
fet myfelf to ftudy fome* art to trap and fnare thegoats, 
to fee whether I could not catch fome of them alive j 
and particularly I wanted a Ihe-goat great with young. 

To this purpofe I made fnares to hamper them ; 
and believe they were more than once taken in them ; 
but my tackle wa§ not good, for I had no wire, and 
always found them broken, and my bait devoured. 

At length I refolved to try a pit-fall ; fo I dug 
ieveral large pits in the earth, in places where I had 
obferved the goats ufed to feed, and over thefe pits 
1 placed hurdles of my own making too, with a great 
weight upon them ; and feveral times I put ears of 
barley, and dry rice, without letting the trap ; and 
I could eaiiiy perceive, that the goats had gone in, 
and eaten up the corn, that I could fee the mark of 
their feet : at length, I fet three traps in one night, 
and going the next morning, I found them all 
itanding, and yet the bait eaten and gone : this w:\s 
very difcouraging ; however, I altered my trap j 
and, not to trouble you with particulars, going one 
morning to fee my traps, I found in one of them a 
large old he-goat ; and, in one of the other, three 
kids, a male and two females. 

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with 
him } he was fo fierce I durft not go into the pit to 

N 4 \JCKV 



184 J^IFE AND ADVENTURES 

him ; that is to fay, to go about to bring him away 
alive, which was what I wanted ; I could have killed 
him, but that was not my bufine^s, nor would it 
anfwer my end ; fb I e'en let him out, and he ran 
away as if he had been frightened out of his wits ; 
but I did not then know what 1 afterwards learned, 
that hunger would tame a lion : if I had let him flay 
' there three or four days without food, and then have 
carried him fome water to drink, and then a little 
corn, he would have been as tame as one o£ the 
kids ; for they are mighty fagacious tradable crea- 
tures, where they are well ufed. 

However, for the prefent I let him go, knowing 
po better at that time ; then I went to three kids ; 
and, taking them, one by one, I tied them with 
firings together J and with fome difficulty brought 
them all home. 

It was a good while before they would feed, but 
throwing them fome fweet corn, it tempted them, 
and they began to be tame : and now I found, that 
if I expefted to fupply myfelf wuth goats-flefh, when 
I had no powder or fhot left, breeding fome up tame 
was my only way, when perhaps I might have them 
about my houfe like a flock of fheep. 

But then it prefently occurred to me, that I mufl 
keep the tame from the wild, or- elfe they would 
always run wild when they grew up ; and the only 
way for this was to have fome inclofed piece of 
ground, well fenced either with hedge or pale, to 
keep them up fo efFeclually, that thofe within might 
not break out, or thofe without break in, 

This was a great undertaking for one painof hands ; 
yet as I faw there was an abfolute neceffity of doing 
it, my firfl piece of work was to find out a proper 

piece 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 185 

piece of ground ; viz* where there was likely to be 
herbage for them to eat, water for them to drink, 
and cover to keep them from the fun. 

Thoie who underftand fuch inclofures, will think 
I had very little contrivance, when I pitched upon a 
place very proper for all thefe, being a plain open 
piece of meadow-land or favanna (as our people call 
it in the weftern colonies) which had two or three 
little drills of frefh water in it, and at one end was 
very woody ; I fay they will fmile at my forecaft, 
when I fliall tell th^m I began my inclofing of this 
piece of ground in fuch a manner, that my hedge or 
pale muft have been at lead two miles about ; nor 
was the madnefs of it fo gr^at as to the compafs ; for 
if it was ten miles about, I was like to have time 
enough to dp it in ; but I did not confido', that my 
goats would be as wild in fo much compafs, as if 
they had had the whole ifland ; and I (hould have fo 
much room to chace them in, that I fliould never 
catch them* 

My hedge was began and carried on, I believe? 
jibout fifty yards, when this thought occurred to me ; 
fo I prefently flopped fhort, and for the firft begin- 
ning I refolved to inclofe a piece of about 150 yards 
in length, and 1 00 yards, in breadth, which as it 
would maintain as many as I fhould have in any rea- 
fonable time, fo, as my flock increafed, I could add 
more ground to my inclofure. 

This was ading with fome prudence, and I went 
. to work with courage ; I was about three months 
hedging in the firft piece ; and, till I had done it, I 
tethered the three kids in the beft part of it, and ufed 
them to feed as near me as poflible, to make tb 
^miliar i and very often 1 would go and carry tl 

\ 



l86 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

fome ears of barley, or an handful of rice, and feed 
them out of my hand ; fo that after my inclofure was 
fini filed, and I let them loofe, they would follow me 
up and down, bleating after me for an handful of corn. 

This anfwered my end, and in about a year and a 
half I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all ; 
and in two years more I had three and forty, befides 
feveral that I took and killed for my food ; and after 
that I inclofed five feveral pieces of ground to feed 
them in,* with little pens to drive them into, to take 
them as I wanted them j and gates out of one piece 
of ground into another. 

But this was not all ; for now I not only had goat's 
flefh to feed on when I pleafed, but milk too, a thing 
which indeed in my beginning I did not fo much as 
think of, and which, when it came into my thoughts, 
was really an agreeable furprize ; for now I fet up 
my dairy, and had fojnetimes a gallon or two of milk 
in a day. And as nature, who gives fupplies of food 
to every creature, diftates even naturally how to 
make ufe of it ; fo I, that never milked a cow, much 
lefs a goat, or faw butter or ch^efe made, very 
readily and handily, though after a great many eflays 
and mifcarriages, made me both butter and cheefe at 
laft, and never wanted it afterwards. 

How mercifully can out great Creator treat his 
creatures, even in thofe conditions in . which they 
feemed to be overwhelmed in deftrudion ! How can 
he fweeten the bitterefl providences, an,d give us 
caufe to praife him for dungeons and prifons ! What 
a table was here fpread from me in a wildernefs, 
where I faw nothing at firPc but to perifh for hunger ! 

It would have made a ftoic fmile, to have feen me 
and my little family fit down to dinner : there was 

my 



OF ROBIXSON CRUSOE, 187 

my majefty, the prince and lord of the whole ifland ; 
I had the lives of all my fubjeds at abfolute com- 
mand ; I could hang, draw, give life and liberty, and 
take it away, and no rebels among all my fubjeflis. 

Then to fee how like a king I dined too, all alone, 
attended by my fervants ! Pol, as if he had been my 
favourite, as the only pcrfon permitted to talk to me; 
my dog, which was now grown very old and crazy, 
and found no fpecies to multiply his kind upon, fat 
always at my right-hand ; and two cats, one on one 
fide the table, and one on the other, expefting now 
and then a bit from my hand, as a mark of fpecial 
favour. 

But thefe were not the two cats which I brought 
on (hore at firfl: ; for they were both of them dead, 
and had been interred near my habitation by my own 
hands ; but one of them having multipled by I know 
not what kind of creature, thefe were two which I 
preferved tame, whereas the reft ran wild into the 
woods, and became indeed troublefome to me at 
laft ; for they would often come into my houfe, and 
plunder me too, till at laft I was obliged to fhoot 
them, and did kill a great many ; at length they left 
me with this attendance, and in this plentiful man- 
ner I lived ; neither could I be faid to want any 
thing but fgciety, and of that, in fome time after 
this, 1 was like to have too much. 

I was fomething impatient, as I had obferved, to 
have the ufe of my boat, though very loth to run 
any more hazard ; and therefore fometimes I fat 
contriving ways to get her about the ifland, and at 
other tiines I fat myfelf down x:ontented enough 
without her. But I had ^ ftrange uneafinefs in nv 
jnind to go down to the point of the ifland, w here 

I 



igo LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

no boat now to take care of, I went over the land 
a nearer v/ay, to the fame height that Iwas upon 
before ; when looking forward to the point of the 
rock which lay out, and which I was to double with 
my boat, as I faid above, I was furprized to fee the 
fea all fmootli* and quiet ; no ripling, no motion, 
no current, any more there than in other places. 

I was at a ftrange lofs to underftand this, and re- 
folved to fpend fome time in the obferving of it, to 
fee if nothing from the fets of the tide had occafioned 
it : but I was prefently convinced how it was ; viz. 
that the tide of ebb fetting from the weft, and join- 
ing with the current of waters from fome great river 
on the fliore, muft be the occafion of this current, 
and that according as the wind blew more forcible 
from the weft, or from the north, this current came 
near, or went farther from the ftiore ; for, waiting 
thereabouts till evening, I went up to the rock again, 
and then the tide of ebb being made, I plainly faw 
the current again as before, only that it ran farther 
off", being near half a league from the fhore ; whereas, 
in my cafe, it fet clofe upon the fhore, and hurried 
me in my canoe along with it, which at another time 
it would not have done. 

This obfervation convinced me, that I had nothing 
to do but to obferve the ebbing and the flowing of the 
tide, and I might very ea:lly bring my boat about 
the ifland again : but when I began to think of put- 
ting it in praftice, I had fuch a terror upon my fpirits 
at the remembrance of the danger I had been in, 
that I could not thin^ of it again with any patience ; 
but on the contrary, I took up another refolution, 

which 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. . I9I 

which was more fafe, though more laborious ; and 
this was, that I would build, or rather make me 
another periagua, or canoe ; and fo have one for one 
fide of the ifland, and one for the other. 

You are to underftand, that now I had, as I may 
call it, two plantations in the ifland ; one my little 
fortification or tent, with the wall about it under the 
rock, with the cave behind me, which by this time 
I had inlarged into feveral apartments or caves, one 
within another. One of thefe, which was the driefl 
and largeft, and had a door out beyond my wall or 
fortification, that is to fay, beyond where my wall 
joined to the rock, was all filled up with large ear- 
then pots, of which I have given an account, and 
with fourteen or fifteen great bafkets, which would 
hold five or fix bufhels each, where I laid up my 
flores of provifion, efpecially my corn, fome in the 
ear cut oft fhort from the ftraw, and the other rubbed 
out with my hands. 

As for my wall, made as before, with long ftakes 
or piles, thofe piles grew all like trees, and were by 
this time grown fo big, and fpread fo very much, 
that there was not the lead appearance, to any one's 
view, of any habitation behind them. 

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther 
within the land, and upon lov/er ground, lay my 
two pieces of corn ground ; which I kept duly cul- 
tivated and fowed, and which duly yielded me their 
harveft in its feafon : and whenever I had occafionfor 
more corn, I had more land adjoining as fit as 
that. 

Befides this, I had ray country-feat, and I had now 
a tolerable plantation there a,lfo} for firft, I had my 

little 



tgZ LIFE ANt) ADVE^'TUREJ 

little bower, as I called it, which I kept in repair j 
that is to fay, I kept the hedge which circled it in 
conflantly fitted up to its ufual height, the ladder 
(landing always in the infide ; I kept the trees, which 
at firft were no more than my ftakes, but were now 
grown, very firm and tall j I kept them always fa 
cut, that they might fpread and grow thick and wild, 
and make the more agreeable (hade, which they did 
effeftually to my mind. In the middle of this I had 
my tent always (landing, being a piece of a fail 
fpread over poles fet up for that purpofe, and which 
never wanted any repair or renewing; and under 
this I had made me a fquab or couch, with the 
fldns of the creatures I had killed, and' with other 
foft things, and a blanket laid on them, fuch as 
belonged to our fea-bedding, which I had faved, and 
a great watch-coat to cover me ; and here, whenever 
I had occafion to be abfent from my chief feat, I took 
up ray country habitation. 

Adjoining to this I had my inclofures for my 
cattle, that is to fay, my goats : And as I had taken 
an inconceivable deal of pains to' fence and inclofe 
this ground, I was fo uneafy to fee it kept entire, left 
the goats (hould break through, that I never left off, 
till with infinite labour I had (luck the outfide of the 
hedge fo full, of fmall ftakes, and fo near to one 
another, that it was rather a pale than an hedge, and 
there was fcarce room to put an hand through 
between them, which afterwards, when thofe ftakes 
grew, as they all did in the next rainy feafon, made 
the inclofure ftrong, like a wall, indeed ftronger than 
any wall. 

This 



bF ROBINSON CRUSOEi I93 

This will teftify for me that I was not Idle, and that 
t fpared no pains to bring to pafs whatever appeared 
neceffary for my comfortable fupport ; for I con- 
fidered the keeping up a breed of tame creatures thus 
at my hand, would be a living magazine of flefh, 
milk, butter and cheefe, for me, as long as I lived 
in the place, if it were to be forty years ; and that 
keeping them in my reach, depended entirely upon 
my perfefting my inclbfures to fuch a degree, that I 
might be fure of keeping them together ;' which by 
this method indeed I fo"^efFe£lually fecured, that when 
thefe little flakes began to grow, I had planted them 
fo very thick, I was forced to pull fome of them up 
again. 

In this place alfo I had my grapes growing, which 
i principally depended on for my winter ftore of 
raifins,> and which I never failed to preferve very 
carefully, as the beft and mofl agreeable dainty of my 
whole diet; and indeed they were not agreeable only^ 
but phyfical, wholfome, nourilhing and refrefliing 
to the laft degree* 

As this was alfo about half way between my other 
habitation and the place where I had laid up my boat, 
I generally ftaid and lay here in my way thither ; for 
I ufed frequently to vifit my boat, and I kept all 
things about or belonging to her in very good order ; 
fometimes I went out in her to divert myfelf, but 
no more hazardous voyages would I go, nor fcarce 
ever above a ftone's caft or two from the Ihore, 
I was fo apprehenfive of being hurried out of my 
knowledge again by the currents, or winds, or any 
other accident : But now I come to a new fcene of 
my life. 

Vol. I. Q It 



194 ^^P^ AND ADVEKTURES 

It happened one day about noon, going towards^ 
my boat, I was exceedingly furprized with the print 
of a man^s naked foot on the fliore, which was very 
plain to be feen in the fand : I flood like one thun- 
der-ftruck, or as if I had feen an apparition; I 
lillened, I looked round me, I could hear nothing, 
nor fee any thing ; I went up to a rifing ground to 
look farther : I went up the fliore, and down the 
fliorfe, but it was all one, I couM fee no other 
impreflion but that one ; I went to it again to fee if 
there were any more, and to obferve if it might not 
be my fancy, but there was no room for that, for 
there was exatlly the very print of a foot, toes, heel, 
and every part of a foot ; how it came thither I knew 
not, nor could in the ; le'afl imagine^ Biit after 
innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a man per- 
tedly confufed, and out of myfelf, I came home to 
my fortification, not feeling, as we fay, thje ground 
I went on, but terrified to the . lafl degree, looking 
behind me at every two or three fleps, niiftaking; 
every bufli and tree, and fancying every ftump at a 
diflance to be a man ; nor is it poffible to defcribe 
bow many various fhapes an affrighted imagination 
reprefented things to m^e in ; how many wild ideas 
were formed every moment in my fancy, and what 
ftrange unaccountable whimfies came intomy thoughts 
by the way. 

When I came to my caflle, for fo I think I called it 
ever after this, I fled into it like one purfued; 
whether I w^ent over by the ladder, as firfl contrived,, 
or went in at the hole in the rock, which I called a 
door, I cannot icmember j for never frighted hare 

fled 




^- 



^s^y^ti^ ^ c/krt4H»^ 



Lf*^vtv*-j^ ^ .y^Ct^/tt-rt^ 



Ih^f/^ J .Mr r //pir /:>• IMft Sf,-r/:/a/4-.Jiri4i,/t/A . 



i '"'"■'K r'FV YCRK 



H L 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* .I95 

fled to cdvef, of fox to earthy with more terror of 
mind than I to this retreat* 

I had no fleep that night ; the farther I was from 
the , occafion of my fright^ the greater my appre- 
henfions were ; which is fomething contrary to the 
jiature of fuch things^ aiid especially to the ufual 
praftice of all creatures in fear : But I was fo em- 
barraffed with my own frightful ideas of the thing, 
that I formed nothing but difmal imaginations to 
myfelf, even though I was now a great way off it. 
Sometimes I fancied it muft be the devil ; and reafon 
joined in with me upon this fuppofition : For how 
ihould any other thing in human fliape come into the 
place ? Where was the veffel that brought thiem? 
What marks were there of any other footfteps ? And 
how was it poffible a man fhould come there ? But 
then to think that Satan fhould take human fhape 
upon him in fuch a place where there could be no 
manner of occafion for it, but to leave the print of 
his foot behind him, and that even for no purpofe 
top (for he could not be fure I fliould fee it,) this was 
an amazement the other way : I confidered that the 
devil might have found out abundance of other ways 
to have terrified me, than this of the fingle print of 
a foot : That as I lived quite on the other fide of the 
ifland, he would never have been fo fimple to leave a 
mark in a place where it was ten thoufand to one 
>yhether I fhould ever fee it or not, and in the fand 
too, which the firfl: furge of the fea upon an higji 
wind would have defaced entirely : All this feemed 
inconfiflent with the thing itfelf, and with all 
notions we ufually entertain of the fubtlety of the 
dqvil. 

O ^ Abundance 



196 LII^E AND ADVENTURES 

Abundance of fuch things as thefe afTifted to 
argue me out of all apprehenfions of its being the 
devil : And 1 prefently concluded that it muft be 
fome more dangerous creature ; viz. That it mud 
be fome of the favages of the main land over-againft 
me, who had wandered out to fea in their canoes, 
and, either driven by the currents, or by contrary 
winds, had made the ifland ; and had been on (hore, 
but were gone away again to fea, being as loth, 
perhaps, to have ftaid in this defolate ifland, as I 
would have been to have had them. 

While thefe refleftions were rolling upon my mind, 
I was very thankful in my thought, that I v/as fo 
happy as not to be thereabouts at that time, or that 
they did not fee my boat, by which they would have 
concluded, that fome inhabitants had been in the 
place, and perhaps have fearched farther for me : 
Then terrible thoughts racked my imaginations 
about their having found my boat, and that there 
were people here ; and that if fo, I fliould certainly 
have them come agai^ in greater numbers, and 
devour me ; that if it fliould happen fct that they 
fliould not find me, yet they would find my inclo- 
fure, deitroy all my corn, carry away all my flock 
of tame goats, and I fliould perifli at lafl: for mere 
w^ant. 

Thus my fear baniflied all my religious hope ; all 
that former confidence in God, which was founded 
upon fuch wonderful experience as I had had of his 
goodncfs, now vaniftied ; as if he that had fed me by 
miracle hitherto, could not preferve Jby his power 
the provifion which he had made for me by his 
goodnefs, I reproached myfelf with my uneafinefs, 



OP ROBINSON CRDSOE. .197 

that J would not fow any more corn one year, than 
would juft ferve me till the next feafon, as if no 
accident could intervene to prevent my enjoying the 
crt>p that was upon the ground : And this I thought 
fo juft a reproof, that I refolved for the future to 
have two or three years corn before-hand, fo that 
whatever might come, I might not perifh for want 
of bread. 

How ftrange a chequer-work of Providence is the 
life of man ! And by what fecret differing fprings are 
the affeftions hurried about, as differing circumftances 
prefent ! To day we love what to-morrow we hate i 
to day we feek what to-morrow we fhun ; to day we 
defire what to-morrow we fear ; nay, even tremble 
at the apprehenfions of. This was exemplified in me 
at this time in the moft lively manner imaginable ; 
for I, whofe only affliftion was, that I feemed 
banifhed from human fociety, that I v/as alone, cir- 
cumfcribed by the boundlefs ocean, cut off from 
mankind, and condemned to what I call a filent life ; 
that I was as one whom heaven thought not worthy 
to be numbered among the living, or to appear among 
the reft of his creatures ; that to have feen one of my 
own fpecies, would have feemed to me a raifing 
me from death to life, and the greateft bleffmg that 
heaven itfelf, next to the fupreme bleffmg of falvation, 
could bed ow ; I fay, that I ftiould now tremble at 
the very apprehenfions of feeing a man, and was 
ready to fink into the ground, at but the fhadow, or 
filent appearance of a man's having fet his foot on the 
ifland. 

Such is the uneven ftate of human life ; and it 
iifforded me a great many curious fpeculations i^fter- 

O 3 wards. 



198 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

wards, when I had a little recovered my firft furprize V 
I confidered that this was the ftation of life the 
infinitely wife and good providence of God had de* 
termined for me •, that as I could not forefee what 
the ends of divine wifdom might be in all this, fo I 
was not to difpute his fovereignty, who, as I was his 
creature, had an undoubted right by creation to 
govern and difpofe of me abfolutely as he thought 
fit ; and who, as I was a creature who had offended 
him, had likewife a judicial right to condemn me to 
what punifhment he thought fit ; and that it was my 
part to fubmit to bear his indignation, becaufe I hacl 
finned againft him. 

I then reflefted, that God, who was not only 
righteous, but omnipotent, as he had thought fit thua 
to punifh and afflift me, fo he was able to deliver me } 
that if he did not think fit to do it, it was my un^ 
queftioned duty to refigii myfelf abfolutely and en- 
tirely to his will : And, on the other hand, it was 
my duty alfo to hope in him, pray to him, and 
quietly to attend the dilates and diredions of his 
daily providence. 

Thefe thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, 
I may fay, weeks and months ; and one particular 
effedt of my cogitations on this occafion I caimot 
omit ; viz. one morning early, lying in my bed, and 
filled with thoughts about my danger from the ap- 
pearance of favages, I found it difcompofed me very 
much ; upon which thpfe words of the fcripture came 
into my thoughts. Call upon me in the day of trouble^ 
and I will deliver thee^ and thoujhalt glorify me. 

Upon this, rifing chearfully out of my bed, my 
heart was not only comforted, but I was guided and 

encouraged 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* ' 1 99 

encouraged to pray earneftly to God for deliverance : 
When I had done praying, I took up my bible, and 
opening it to read, the firft words that prefented to 
me, were, Wait on the Lord^ and be of good cheer ^ and 
he jhall Jlrengtben thy heart : Wait^ ^ ^JK? on the Lord. 
It is impoflible to exprefs the comfort this gaVe me j 
and in return, I thankfully laid down the book, and 
was no more fad, at leaft, not on that occafion. 

In the middle, of thefe cogitations, apprehenficn^, 
and reflexions, it came into my thoughts one day, 
that all this might be a mere chimera of my own, and 
that this foot might be the print of my own foot, when 
I came on fhore from my boat : This cheared me up 
a little too, and I began toperfuade myfelf itwas all 
a delufion; that it was nothing elfe but my owa 
foot ; and why might not I come that way from the 
boat, as well as I was going that way to the boat ? 
Again, I confidered alfo, that I could by no meansf 
tell for certain where I had trod, and where I had 
not ; and that if at laft this was only the print of my 
own foot, I had played the part of thofe fools, who 
ftrive to make ftories of fpeftres and apparitions, and 
then are themfelves frighted at them more than any 
tody elfe. 

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad 
again ; for I had not ftirred out of my caftle for three 
days and nights, fo that I began to ftarve for pro^ 
vifion J for I had little or nothing within doors, but 
fome barley-cakes and water. Then I knew that my 
goats wanted to be milked too, which ufually was my 
evening diverfion ; and the poor creatures were in 
great pain and inconvenience for want of it ; and 

O 4 indeed 



JLGO LIPE AND ADVENTURES 

indeed it almoft fpoiled fome of them, and almoft 
dried up their milk. 

Heartening myfelf therefore with the belief, that 
this was nothing but the print of one of my owri feet 
(and fo I might be truly faid to ftart at my own 
fhadowj) I began to go abroad again, and went to 
my country-houfe to milk my flock ; but to fee with 
what fear I went forward, how often I looked behind 
me, how I was ready, every now-and-then, to lay 
down my balket, and run for my life ; it would have 
made any one have thought I was haunted with an 
evil confcience, or that I had been lately moll terri"> 
bly frighted ; and fo indeed I had. 

However, as I went down thus two or three days, 
and having feen nothing, I began to be a little bolder, 
and to think there was really nothing in it but my 
own imagination ; but I could not perfuade myfelf 
fully of this, till I fhould go down to the fhore again, 
and fee this print of a foot, and meafure it by my 
own, and fee if there was any fimilitude or fitnefs, 
that I might be afTured it was my own foot : But 
when I came to the place firfl, it appeared evidently 
to me, that when I laid up my boat, I could not 
poflibly be on fhore any where thereabouts: Secondly, 
when I came to meafure the mark with my own foot, 
I found my foot not fo large by a great deal : Both 
thefe things filled my head with new imaginations, 
and gave me the vapours again to the higheft degree; 
fo that 1 fhook with cold, like one in am ague, and I 
went home again, filled with the belief, that, fome 
man or men had been on fhore there ; or, in fhort, 
that the iflarid was inhabited, and I might be fur- 
prized 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, ' 201 

prized before I was aware ; and what courfe to take 
&r my fecurity, I knew not. 

O what ridiculous refolutions men take, when 
poffefled with fear ! It deprives them of the ufe of thofe 
means which reafon offers for their relief. The 
firft thing I propofed to myfelf was, to throw down 
my inclofures, and turn all my tame cattle wild into 
the woods, that the enemy might not find them, and 
then frequent the ifland in profpeft of the fame, or 
the like booty ; then to the fmiple thing of digging 
up my two corn-fields, that they might not find fuch 
a grain ther^e, and ftill to be prompted tq^ frequent 
the ifland ; then to demolifli my bower and tent, that 
they might not fee any veftiges of my habitation, 
^nd be prompted to look farther, in order to find 
out the perfons inhabiting. 

Thefe wer£ the fubjefts of the firft night's cogita- 
tion, after I was come home again, while the appre- 
hcnfions which had fo over-run my mind were frefli 
jupon me, and my head was full of vapours, as above. 
Thus fear of danger is ten thoufand times more terri- 
fying than danger itfelf, when apparent to the 
eyes ; and we find the burden of anxiety, greater by 
jnuch than the evil which we are anxious about ; 
but, which was worfe than all this, I had not that 
relief in this trouble from the refighation I ufed to 
praftife, that I hoped to have. I looked, I thought, 
like Saul, who complained not only that the Philif- 
fines were upon him, but that God had forfaken 
him ; for I did not now take due ways to compofe 
my mind; by crying to God in my diftrefs, and reft- 
ing upon his providence, as I had done before, for 
jny defence and deliverance j which if I had done, I 

had. 



101 LirE AND ADVENTURES 

had, at lead, been more chearfully fupportcd undef 
this new furprize, and perhaps carried through it 
with more refolution. 

This confiifion of my thoughts kept me waking all 
night ; but in the morning I fell afleep, and having 
by the amufement of my mind been, as it were, tried^ 
and ray fpirits exhaufted, 1 flept very foundly, and 
awaked much better compofed than I had ever been 
before: And now I began to think fedately; and, 
upon the utmoft debate with myfelf, I concluded, 
that this ifland, which was fo exceeding pleafant, 
fruitful, and no farther from the main land than as I 
had feen, ^^as not fo entirely abandoned as I might 
imagine : That although there vere no ftated in-, 
habitants who lived on the fpot ; yet that there might 
fometimes come boats off from the fhore, who either 
with defign, or perhaps never but when they were 
driven by crofs winds, might come to this place* 

That I had lived here 1 5 years now, and had not 
met with the leaft fhadow or figure of any people be- 
fore ; and that if at any time they Ihould be driven 
here, it was probable they went away again as foon 
as ever they could, feeing they had never thought fit 
to fix there upon any occafion, to this time. 

That the moft I could fuggeft any danger from, 
was, from any fuch cafual accidental landing of 
draggling people from the main, who, as it was 
likely, if they were driven hither, were here againft 
their wills; fo they made no flay here, but went off 
again with all poflible fpeed, feldom flaying one night 
on fhore, lefl they fhould not have the help of the 
tides and day-light back again j and that therefore I 

had 



or ROBINSON CRUSOE. ao^ 

had nothing to do but to confider of fome fafe retreat, 
in cafe Ilhould fee any favages land upon the fpot. 

Now I began forely to repent that I had dug 
iny eave fo large, as to bring a door through again, 
which door, as I faid, came out beyond where my 
fortification joined to the rock. Upon maturely 
confidering this, therefore, I refolved to draw me 
a fecond fortification, in the nianner of a femi- 
circle, at a diftance from my wall, juft where I had 
planted a double row of trees about twelve years be- 
fore, of which I made mention : thefe trees having 
been planted fo thick before, there wanted but a 
few piles to be driven between them, that they 
Ihould be thicker and ftronger, and my wall would 
be foon finifeed. 

So that I had now a double wall, and my outer 
wall was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, 
(and every thing I could think of to make it ftrong ; 
having in it feven little holes, about as big as I might 
put my arm out at. In the infide of this I thickened 
iny wall to about ten feet thick, continually bring- 
ing earth out of my cave, and laying it at the foot of 
the wall, and walking upon it; and through the 
jfeven holes I contrived to plant the mufquets, of 
which I took notice that I got feven on fliore out of 
the Ihip ; thefe, I fay, I planted like my cannon, 
and fitted them into frames that held them like a car- 
riage, that fo I could fire all the feven guns in two 
minutes time : this wall I was many a weary month 
in finifhing, and yet never thought myfelf fafe till it 
was done. 

When this was done, I fluck all the ground with- 
out my wall, for a great way every way, as full with 

flakes 



204 LIFE AND ADVENTURI^S 

ftakes or (licks of the ofier like wood, which I founj 
fo apt to grow, as they could well (land ; infomucli 
that I believe I might fet in near twenty thoufand of 
them, leaving a pretty large fpace between them 
and my wall, that I might have room to fee an 
enemy, and they might have no flielter from the 
young trees, if they attempted to approach my 
outer wall. "^ 

Thus in two years time I had a thick grave ; ani 
in five or fix years time I had a wood before my 
dwelling, grown fo monftrous thick and ftrong^ 
that it was indeed perfeftly impafl^able ; and no man 
of what kind foever would ever imagine that there 
was any thing beyond it, much lefs an habitation : 
as for the way I propofed myfelf to go in and out (for 
I left no avenue) it was by fetting two ladders; one 
to a part of the rock which was low, and then broke 
in, and left room to place another ladder upon that ; 
fo when the two laciders were taken down, no man 
living eould come down to me without mifchiefing 
himfelf ; and if they had come down, they were ftiU, 
on the outfide of my outer wall. 

Thus I took all the meafures human prudence 
could fuggeft for my own prefer vation ;. and it will 
befeen at length, that they were not altogether with- 
out juft reafon \ though I forefaw nothing at that 
time more than my mere fear'fuggefted. 

While this was doing, I was not altogether care- 
lefs of my other affairs ; for I had a great concern 
upon me for my little herd of goats ; they were hot 
only a prefent fupply to me upon every occafion, and 
began to be fufficient for me, without the expence of 
powder and Ihot, but alfo abated the fatigue of n\y 

bunting 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* ^05 

hunting after the wild ones 9 and I was loth to lofe 
the advantage of them, and to have them all to nurfe 
up over again. 

To this purpofe, after long confideration, I could 
think but of two ways to preferve them ; one was 
to find another convenient place to dig a cave under 
ground, and to drive them into it every night ; and 
the other was to inclofe two or three little bits of 
land, remote from one another, and as much con- 
cealed as I could, where I might keep about half 
a dozen young goats in each place ; fo that if any 
difafter happened to the flock in general, L might be 
able to raife them again with little trouble and time : 
and this, though it would require a great deal of 
time and labour, I thought was the moft rational 
defign. 

Accordingly I fpent fome time, to find out the 
moft retired parts of the ifland ; and I pitched upon 
one, which was as private indeed as my heart could 
wifti ; for it was a little damp piece of ground in the 
middle of the hollow and thick woods, where, as is 
obferved, I almoft loft myfelf once before, endea- 
vouring to come ba(;k that way from the eaftern part 
of the ifland: here I found a clear piece of land 
near tlir^e acres, fo furrounded with woods, that it 
was almoft an inclofure by. nature; at leaft it did not 
. want near fo much labour to make it fo, as the other 
pieces of ground I had worked fohard at. 

I immediately went to work with this piece of 
ground, and in left than a month's time I had fo 
fenced it round, that my flock or herd, call it which 
you pleafe, which were not fo wild now as at firft 
they might be fuppofed to be, were v/ell enough 

fecured 



^o6 LIFE AND ADVENTURED 

fecured in it. So without any farther delay, I re- 
moved ten fhe goats and two he goats to this piece;, 
and when there, I continued to perfedt the fence, 
till I had made it as ftcure as the other, which, how- 
ever, I did at more leifure, and it took me tip more 
time by a great deal. 

All this labour I was at the expence of, purely 
from my apprehenfions on the account of the print 
of a man's foot which I had feen ; for as yet, I never 
faw any human creature come near the ifland, and I 
had now lived two years under thefe uneafineffes, 
which indeed made my life much lefs comfortable 
than it was before ; as may well be imagined, by any 
who know what it is to live in the conftant fnare of 
the fear of man ; and this I muft obferve with grief 
too, that the difcompofure of my mind had too great 
impreffions alfo upon the religious part of my 
thoughts ; for the dread and terror of falling into 
the hands of favages and cannibals lay fo upon my 
fpirits, that I feldom found myfelf in a due temper 
for application to my Maker ; at leaft, not with the 
fedate calmnefs and rellgnation of foul which I was 
wont to do. I rather prayed to God as under great 
afflidion and preffure of mind, furrounded with 
danger, and in expectation every night of being 
murdered and devoured before the morning ; and I 
muft teftify from my experience, that a temper of 
peace, thankfulnefs, love and affeftion, is much 
more the proper frame for prayer than that of terror 
and difcompofure ; and that under the dread of mif- 
chief impending, a man is no more fit for a comfort- 
ing performance of the duty of praying to God, thaa 
he is for repentance on a fick bed j for thefe dif- 

compofures 



OF ROBmSON CRUSOE. 20/ 

comporures aiFeft the mind as the others do the body; 
^ and the difcompofiire of the mind muft neceflarily 
be as great a difability as that of the body, and much 
greater ; praying to God being properly an afl; of 
the mind, not of the body. 

But to go on; after I had thus fecured one part 
of my little living (lock, I went about the whole 
ifland, fearching for another private place, to make 
fuch another depofit ; when wandering more to the 
weft point of the ifland than I had ever done yet, and 
looking out to fea, I thought I faw a boat upon 
the fea at a great diftance ; I had found a 
po-fpeftive glafs or two in one of the feamen*8 
chefts, which I faved out of our fhip ; but I had it 
not about me, and this was fo remote, that I could 
not tell what to make of it, though I looked at it till 
my eyes were not, able to look any longer ; whether 
it was a boat, or not, I do not know ; but as I de- 
fcended from the hill, I could fee no more of it, fo 
I gave it over ; only I refolved to go no more with- 
out a perfpeftive glafs in my pocket* 

When I was come down the hill, to the end of 
the ifland, where indeed I had never been before, I 
was prefently convinced, that the feeing ^:he print of 
a man's foot, was not fuch a fl:range thing in the 
ifland as I imagined ; and, but that it was a fpecial 
Providence that I was caft upon the fide of the ifland 
where the favages never came, I fliould eafily have 
known, that nothing was more frequent than for 
the canoes from the main, ' when they happened to 
be a little too far out at fea, to fiioot oyer to that fide 
of the ifland for harbour ; likewife, as they often met, 
and fought in their canoes, the viftors, having taken 
any prifoners, would bring them over to this fliore, 

where. 



20S MFE AND AtrVtJItL'RE* 

where, according to their dreadful cuftoras, being all 
cannibals, 'they would kill and eat them : of which 
hereafter. 
•* When I was come down the hill to the fhore, as I 
faid above, being the S. W. point of the ifland, I 
was perfeftly confounded and amazed ; nor is it 
pofiible for me to exprefs the horror of my mind, at 
feeing the fliore fpread with IkuUs, hands, feet, and 
other bones of human bodies ; and particularly I ob-* 
ferved a place where there had been a fire made, and 
a circle dug in the earth, like a cock-pit, where it is 
fuppofed the favage wretches had fat down to their 
inhuman feaflings upon the bodies of their fellow- 
creatures. 

I was fo aftoniflied with the fight of thefe things, 
that 1 entertained no notions of any danger to myfelf 
from it, for a long while; all my apprehenfions 
were buried in the thoughts of fuch a pitch of inhu* 
man, hellifh brutality, and the horror of the degene- 
racy of human nature ; which, though I had beard 
of often, yet I never had fo near a view of before j 
in fhort, I turned away my face from the horrid fpec- 
tacle ; my fi:omach grew fick, and I was juft at the 
point of fainting, when nature difcharged thediforder 
from my fl:omach, and, having vomited with an im- 
common violence, I was a little relieved, but could 
not bear to (lay in the place a moment ; fol got me 
up the hill again with all the fpeed I could, and 
walked on towards my own habitation. 

When I came a little out of that part of the ifland, 
I flood flill awhile as amazed ; and then recovering 
myfelf, I looked up with the utmofi: affedion of my 
foul, and, with a flood of tears in my eyes, gave 



OF R0BINS6K CRUSOE. 20^ 

God thanks, that had caft my firft lot in a part of the 
world where I was diftinguifhed - from fuch dreadful 
creatures as thefe ; and that though I had efteemed 
my prefent condition Very miferable, had yet given 
me fo many comforts in it, that I had ftill more to 
give thanks for than to complain of ; and this above 
all, that I had, even in this miferahle condition, 
been comforted with the knowledge of himfelf, and 
the hope of his blefling, which was a felicity more 
than fufficiently equivalent to all the mifery which I 
had fufFered, or could fuffen 

In this frame of thankfulnefs I went home to my 
caftle, andbegan tobemuch eafier now, as to the fafety 
of my circumftances, than ever I was before ; for I 
obferved, that thefe wretches never came to this 
ifland in fearch of what they could get ; perhaps not 
feeking, not wanting, or not expefting, any thing 
here ; and having often, ho doubt, been up in the 
covered woody part of it, without finding any thing 
to their purpofe : I knew I had been here now almofl 
eighteen years, and Jiever faw the leaft footfteps of a 
human creature there before; and might be here 
eighteen more as entirely concealed as I was now, if 
I did not difcover myfelf to them, which I had no 
manner of occafion to do, it being my only bufinefs 
to keep myfelf entirely concealed where I was, unlefs 
I found a better fort of creatures than canibals to 
make myfelf known to. 

Yet I entertained fuch an abhorrence of the favage 
wretches that I have been fpeaking of, and of the 
wretched inhuman cuftom of their devouring and 
eating one another up, that I continued penfive and 
fad, and kept clofe within my own circle for almoft 

Vol, I. P two 



aiO LJFE ArND ADVENTURED 

two years after this : when I fay my own circle, f 
mean by it my three plantations, viz. my caftle, my 
country.feat, which I called my bower, and my in- 
clofare in the woods ; nor did I look after this for 
any other ufe than as an inclofure for my goats ; for 
the averfion which nature gave me to thefe hellifli- 
wretches was fuch, that I was as fearful of feeing 
them as of feeing the devil himfelf ; nor did I fo 
much as go to look after my boat in all this time, but 
began rather to think of making me another ; for I 
could not think of ever making any more attempts 
to bring the other boat round the ifland to me, left I 
fliould meet with fome of thofe creatures at fea, in 
which, if I had happened to have fallen into their 
hands, I knew what would have been my lot. 

Time, however, and the fatisfadion I had, that I 
was in no danger of being difcovered by thefe people, 
began to wear off my uneafmefs about them j and I 
began to live juft in the fame compofed manner as 
before ; only with this difference, that I ufed more 
caution, and kept my eyes more about me than I 
did before, left I fhould happen to be feen by any of 
them ; and particularly, I was more cautious of fir- 
ing mygun, left any of them on the ifland fliould 
happen to hear it ; and it was therefore a very good 
providence to me, that I had furniflied myfelf with a 
tame breed of goats, that I had no need to hunt any 
more about the woods, or flioot at them ; and if I 
did catch any more of them after this, it was by traps 
and fnares, as I had done before y fo that for two 
years after this, I believe I never fired my gun once off, 
though I never went out without it ; and, which was 
more,as I hadfaved threepiftols out of the fliip, I always 

carried 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE; 211 

Carried them out with me, or at leaft two of them, 
flicking them in my goat-fldil belt :• I Hkewife fur- 
bifhed up one of the great cutlaffes that I had out of 
the fhip, and made me a belt to put it in alfo ; fo that 
I was now a mdft formidable fellow to look at when 
I went abroad, if you add to the former defcription 
of myfclf, the particular of two piftols, and a great 
broad-fword, hanging at my fide in a belt, but with- 
out a fcabbard* 

Things going on thus, as I have faid, for fome 
time, I feemed, excepting thefe cautions, to be re- 
duced to my former calm fedat^ way of living ; all 
thefe things tended to fliew me more and more how 
far my condition was from being mifcrable, com- 
pared to fome others ; nay, to many other particu- 
lars of life, which it might have pleafed God to have 
made my lot. It put me. upon reflefting, how little 
repining there would be among mankind, at any 
condition of life, if people would rather compare 
their condition with thofe that are worfe^ in order to 
be thankful, than be always comparing them with 
thofe which are better, to affift their murmuring^ 
and complainings. 

As in my prefer t condition there were not really 
many things which I wanted, fo indeed I thought 
that the frights I had been in about thefe favage 
wretches, and the concern I had been in for my own 
prefervatibn, had taken oft the edge of my invention 
for my own conveniencies, and I had dropt a good 
defign, which I had once bent my thoughts upon ; 
and that v/as, to try if I could not make fome 
of my barley into malt, and then try to brew myfelf 
fome beer : this was really a whimTical thought, and 
P 2 I re^ 



212 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

I reproved my felf often for the fimplicity of it; for! 
prefently faw there would be the want of feveral 
things necefTary to the making my beer, that it would 
be impoflible for me to fupply ; as, firft, cafks to pre- 
ferve it in, which was a thing that, as I have ob- 
ferved already, I could never compafs ; no, though 
I fpent not many days, but weeks, nay months, in 
attempting it, but to no purpofe. In the next place, 
I had no hops to make it keep, no yeaft to make it 
work, no copper or kettle to make it boil ; and yet, 
had not all thefe things intervened, I mean the frights 
and terrors I was in about the favages, I had under- 
taken it, and perhaps brought it to pafs too; 
for I feldom gave any thing Over without ac- 
complifliing it, when I once had it in my head 
enough to begin it. 

But my invention now ran quite another way ; for 
night and day I could think of nothing, but how I 
might deflroy fome of thefe monfters in their cruel 
bloody entertainment, and, if poflible, fave the vic- 
tim they fliould bring hither to deflroy. It would 
. take up a larger volume than this whole work is in- 
tended to be, to fet dov/n all the contrivances I 
hatched, or rather brooded upon. in my thoughts, 
for the deftroying thefe creatures, or at lead frighten- 
ing them, fo as to prevent their coming hither any 
more ; but all was abortive ; nothing could be pof- 
fible to take effed, unlefs I was to be there to do it 
myfelf ; and what could one man do among them, 
^ when perhaps there might be twenty or tliirty of 
them together, with their darts, or their bows and 
arrows, with which they could flioot as true to a 
mark a^ I could with my gun I 

Sometimes 



OP ROBmSON CRUSOE. 21^ 

Sometimes I contrived to dig an hole under the 
place wherethey made their fire, and put in five or fix 
pounds of gunpowder, which, when they kindled their 
fire, would confequently take fire, and blow up all 
that was near it ; but, as in the firll place I fhould 
be ' very loth to wafle fo much powder upon them, 
my (lore being now within the quantity of a barrel, 
fo neither could I be fure of its going oiF at any cer- 
tain time, when it might furprize them ; and, at 
bed, that it would do little more than juft blow the 
fire about their ears, and fright them, but not fuffi- 
cient to make them forfake the place ; fo I laid it 
afide, and then propofed, that I would place myfelf 
in ambulh, in fome convenient place, with my three 
guns all double-loaded, and in the middle of their 
bloody ceremony let fly at them, when I fhould be fure 
to kill or wound perbaps two or three at every flioot j 
and then falling in upon them with my three piftols, 
and my fword, I made no doubt but that, if there 
were twenty, I fhould kill them all : this fancy pleafed 
my thoughts for fome v/eeks, and I was fo full of it 
that I often dreamt of it ; and fometimes, that I was 
juil going to let fly at them in my fleep. 

I went fo far with jt in my indignation, that I em- 
ployed myfelf feveral days to find out proper places to 
put myfelf in ambufcade, as I faid,to watch for them ; 
and I went frequently to the place itfelf, which was 
now grown more familiar to me ; and efpecially 
while my mind was thus filled with thoughts of re- 
venge, and of a bloody putting twenty or thirty of 
them to the fword, as I may call it ; but the horror 
I had at the place, and at the fignals of the barba- 

P 3 rous 



JT4 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

rous wretches devouring one another, abated my 
malice. 

Well, at length I found a place in the fide of the 
hill, w here I was fatisfied I might fecurely wait till I 
faw any of the boats Coming, and might then, even 
before they would be ready to come on fhore, convey 
jnyfelf unfeen into thickets of trees, in one of which 
there was an hollow large enough to conceal me en^ 
tirelyj and where I might fit, and obferve all their 
bloody doings, and take my full aim at their heads, 
when they were fo clofe together, as that it would 
be next to impoffible that I fhould mifs my flioot, or 
that I could fail wounding three or four of them at 
the firfl ftioot. 

In this place then I refolved to fix my defign ; ?ind 
accordingly I prepared two mufkets and my ordir 
nary fowling-piece. The two mulkets I loaded with a 
brace of flugs each, and four or five fmaller bullets, 
about the fize of piftol-bullets, and the fowling-piece 
I loaded v^ith near an handful of fwan-fhot, of the 
largeft fize ; I alfo loaded my piftols with about four 
]3ullets each : and in this pofture, well provided with 
ammunition for a fecond and third charge, I prepared 
jnyfelf for my expedition. 

After I had thus laid the fcheme for my defign, and 
in my imagination put it in practice, 1 continually 
made my tour every morning up to the top of the hill, 
which was from my caftle, as I called it, about three 
miles or more, to fee if I could obferve any boats 
upon the fea, coming near the ifland, or (landing 
over towards it ; but I began to tire of this hard 
duty, after I had for two or three months conftantly 
kept my watch ; but canae always^ack without any 

difcovery, 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. Cll ^ 

flifcovery, there having not in all that time been the 
leaft appearance, not only on or near the fhore, but 
not on the whole ocean, fo far as my eyes or glafl'es 
could reach every way. 

As long as I kept up my daily tour to the hill to 
look out, fo long alfo I kept up the vigour of my d€- 
fign, and my fpirits feemed to be all the while in a 
fuitable frame for fo outrageous an execution, aS 
the killing twenty or thirty naked favages for an 
offence, which I had not at all entered into a difcuf- 
fion of in my thoughts, any further than my paffions 
were at firft fired by the horror I conceived at the 
unnatural cuflom of the people of that country, who, 
it feems, had been fuffered by Providence, in his 
wife difpofition of the world, to have no other guide 
than that of their own abominable and vitiated paf- 
fions ; and confequently were left, and perhaps had 
been for fome ages, to aft fuch horrid things, and 
receive fuch dreadful cuftoms, as nothing but nature, 
entirely abandoned of Heaven, and aftuated by fome 
hellifti degeneracy, could have run them into ; but 
now, when, as I have faid, I began to be weary of 
the fruitlefs excurfion which I had made fo long, and 
fo far, every morning in vain ; fo my opinion of the 
aftion itfelf began to alter, and I began, with cooler 
and calmer thoughts, to confider what it was I was 
going to engage in ; what authority or call I had 
to pretend to be judge and executioner upon thefe 
men as criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit for 
fo many ages to fuffer, unpunifhed, to go on, and 
to be, as it were, the executioners of his judgments 
upon one another; alfo, how far thefe people were 
^offenders againft me, and what right I had to en- 

P 4 gage- 



2l8 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

come over again by thoufands to revenge the death 
of their fellows ; and I ihould only bring upon myfelf 
a certain deftruction, which at prefent I had no man- 
ner of occafion for. 

Upon the whole, I concluded, that neither in 
principles nor in policy, I ought one way or other to 
concern myfelf in this affair : that my bufinefs was, 
by all pofTible means to conceal myfelf from them, 
and not to leave the leaft fignal to them to guefs by, 
that there were any livings creatures upon the ifiand,/ 
I mean of human fhape. 

Religion joined in w ith this prudential, and I was 
convinced now many ways that I wa« perfeftly out 
of my duty, when I was laying all niy bloody fchemes 
for the deftruftion of innocent creatures, I mean in- 
nocent as to me ; as to the crimes they were guilty of 
towards one another, I had nothing to do with them ; 
they were national puniflinients to make a jufl retri- 
bution for national offences ; and to bring public 
judgments upon thofe who offend in a public manner, 
by fuch ways as bed pleafe God. 

This appeared fo clear to me now, that nothing 
was a greater fatisfaftion to me, than that I had not 
been fuffered to do a thing which I now faw fo much 
reafon to believe would have been no lefs a fin than 
that of wilful murder, if I had committed it ; and I 
gave moft humble thanks on my knees to God, that 
had thus delivered me from blood-guiltinefs ; fae- 
feeching him to grant me the proteftion of his Provi- 
dence, that I might not fall into the hands of barba- 
rians ; or that I might not lay my hands upon them, 
unlefs I had a more clear call from Heaven to do it, 
in defence of my own life^ 

In 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 2 19 

In this difpofition I continued for near a year after 
this : and fo far was I from defiring an occafion for 
falling upon thefe wretches, that in all that time I 
never once went up the hill to fee whether there were 
any of them in fight, or to know whether any of 
them had been on ftiore there, or not ; that I might 
not be tempted to renew any of my contrivances 
againfl them, or be provoked, by any advantage 
which might prefent itfelf, to fall upon them ; only 
this I did, I went and removed my boat, which I 
had on the other fide of the ifland, and carried it 
down to the eaft end of the whole ifland, where I ran 
it into a little cove which I found under fome high 
rocks, and where I knew, by reafon of the currents, 
the favages durft not, at leajft would not, come witi^ 
their boats upon any account whatfoever. 

With my boat I carried away every thing that I 
had left there belonging to her, though not neceffary 
for the bare going thither ; viz. a maft and fail, which 
I had made for her, and a thing like an anchor, but 
indeed, which could not be called either anchor or 
grappling ; however, it was the bed I could make of 
its kind. All thefe I removed, that there might not 
be the leafl: fhadow of any difcovery, or any ap- 
pearance of any boat, or of any habitation upon the 
ifland, 

Befides this, I kept myfelf, as I faid, more retired 
than ever, and feldom went from my cell, other than 
upon my conft;ant employment, viz, to milk my fhe- 
goats, and niariage my little flock in the wood, which, 
as it was quite on the other part of the ifland, was 
quite out of danger : for certain it is, that thefe favage 
people, who fometimes haunted this ifland, never 

came 



220 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

came with any thoughts of finding any thing here, 
and confequently never v/andered off from the coaft ; 
and I doubt not but they might have been feveral 
times on fiiore, after my apprehenfions of them had 
made me cautious, as well as before ; and indeed I 
looked back with fome horror upon the thoughts of 
what my condition would have been, if I had chopped 
upon them, and been difcovered before that, when 
naked and unarmed, except with one guA, and that 
loaded often only with fmall (hot. I walked every 
where, peeping and peering about' the ifland, to fee 
V. hat I could get : what a furprize fhould I have been 
in, if, when I difcovered the print of a man's foot, 
I had inftead of that feen fifteen or tv/enty favages, 
and found them purfuing me, and, by the fwiftnefs 
of their running, no poffibility of my efcaping 
them ! 

The thoughts of this fometimes funk my very foul 
within me, and diftreffed my mind fo much, that I 
could not foon recover it ; to think what I fhould 
have done, and how I not only fhould not have been 
able to refift them, but even fhould not have had 
prefence of mind enough to do what I might have 
done ; much lefs what now, after fo much confidera- 
tion and preparation, I might be able to do. Indeed, 
after ferious thinking of thefe things, I would be very 
melancholy, and fometimes it would laft a great 
while ; but I refolved it at laft all into thankfulnefs 
to that Providence which had delivered me from fo 
many unfeen dangers, and had kept me from thofe 
mifchiefs, which I could no way have been the agent 
in delivering myfeif from } begaufe I had not the leafl 

notion 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 221 

notion of any liich thing depending, or the leaft fup- 
pofition of its being poffible. 

This renewed a (Contemplation, which often had 
come to my thoughts in former time, when firft I be- 
gan to fee the merciful difpofitions of Heaven, in the 
dangers we run through in this life ; how wonder- 
fully we are delivered when we know nothing of it : 
ho w, when we are in a quandary (as we call it), a doubt 
or hefitation, whether to go this way, or that way, 
a fecret hint Ihall direct us this way, when we in- 
tended to go another way ; nay, when fenfe, our 
own inclination, and perhaps bufinefs, has called to 
go the other v/ay, yet a ftrange impreflion upon the 
mind, from we know not what fprings, and by we 
know not what power, fhall over-rule us to go this 
way ; and it (hall afterwards appear, that had we gone 
that way which we would have gone, and even to our 
imagination ought to have gone, we fliould have been. 
ruined and loft ; upon thefe, and many like reflec- 
tioits, I afterwards made it a certain rule with me^ 
that whenever I found thofe fecret hints, orpreffinga 
of my mind, to dging or not doing any thing that 
prefented, or to going this way or that way, I never 
failed to obey the fecret didtate ; though 1 knew no 
other reafon for it, than that fuch a preflure, or fuch 
an hint, hung upon my mind : I could give many 
examples of the fuccefs of this conduQ: in the courfe 
of my life ; but more efpecially in the latter part of 
my inhabiting this unhappy ifland ; befides many 
occafions which it is very likely I might-have taken 
notice of, if I had feen with the fame eyes then that 
I faw with now : But 'tis never too late to be wife ; 
and I cannot but advife all confidering men, whofe 

lives 



121 LIFE A^D ADVENTURES 

lives are attended with fuch extraordinary incidents 
as mine, or even though not fo extraordinary, not to 
flight fuch fecret intimations of Providence, let them 
come fromwrhat invifible intelligence they will; that 
I (hall not difcufs, and perhaps cannot account for ; 
but certainly they are a proof of the converfe of 
fpirits, and the fecret communication between thofe 
embodied, and thofe unembodied ; and fuch a proof 
as can never be withftood : of which I fliall have oc- 
cafion to give fome very remarkable inftances, in 
the remainder of my folitary fefidence in this difmal 
place. 

I believe the reader of this will not think it flrangey 
if I confefs that thefe anxieties, thefe conftant dan- 
gers I lived in, and the concern that was now upon 
me, put an end to all invention, and to all the con- 
trivances that I had laid for my future accommoda- 
tions and conveniencies, I had the care of my fafety 
more now upon my hands than that of my food. I 
cared not to drive a nail, or chop a ftick of wood 
now, for fear the noife I fhould make fhould be 
heard ; much lefs would I fire a gun, for the fame 
reafon ; and, above all, I was very uneafy at making 
any fire, left the fmoke, which is vifibl8 at a great 
diftance in the day, fhould betray me ; and for this 
reafon I removed that part of my bufinefs, which 
required fire, fuch as burning of pots and pipes, &c» 
into my new apartment in the wood j where, after I 
had been fome time, I found, to my unfpeakable con- 
folation, a mere natural cave in the earth, which went 
in a vaft way, and where, I dare fay, no favage, had 
he been at the mouth of it, v/ould be fo hardy as to 
venture in, nor indeed would any man elfe, but one 

who. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 223 

Vifho, like me, wanted nothing fo much as a fafe 
retreat. 

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a 
great rock, where, by mere accident (I would fay, if 
I did not fee an abundant reafon to afcribe all fuch 
things now to Providence), I was cutting down fome 
thick branches of trees to make charcoal ; and before 
I go on, I muft obferve the reafon of my making this 
charcoal, which was thus: 

I was afraid of making a fmoke about my habita- 
tion, a^ I faid before ; and yet I could not live there 
without baking my bread, cooking my meat, &c. fo I 
contrived to burn fome wood here, as I had feen done 
in England under turf, till it became chark, or dry 
coal ; and then putting the fire out, I preferved the 
coal to carry home, and perform the other fervices> 
which fire was wanting for at home, without danger 
or fmoke. 

But this by the bye : while I was cutting down fome 
wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick 
branch oflowbrufhwood, or underwood, there was a 
kind of hollow place : I was curious to look into it, and 
getting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found 
it was pretty large, that is to fay, fufKcient for me to 
fland upright in it, and perhaps another with me ; 
but I muft confefs to you, I made more hafte out than 
I did in ; when looking further into the place, which 
was pcrfedly dark, I faw two broad fhining eyes of 
fome creature, whether devil or man I knew not, 
which twinkled like two ftars, the dim light from 
the cave's mouth fhining directly in, and making 
the refleSion. 

However, 



224 ^'^^^ ^^^ ADVENTURES 

However, after fome paufe, I recovered myfelf, 
and began to call myfelf a thoufand fools, and tell 
myfcif, that he that was afraid to fee the devil, was 
not fit to live twenty years in an ifland all alone, and 
that I durfl to believe there v/as nothing in this cave 
that was more frightful than myfelf: upon this, 
plucking up my courage, I took up a large firebrand, 
and in I rufhed again, with the ftick flaming in my 
hand : I had not gone three fteps in, but I was al- 
moft as m.uch frightened as I was before ; for I 
heard a very loud figh, like that of a man in fome 
pain ; and it was followed by a broken noife, as if of 
words half-exprefled, and then a deep figh again : 
I ftepped back, and was indeed firuck with fuch a 
furprize, that it put me into a cold fweat ; and if I 
had had an hat on my head, I will not anfwer for it 
that my hair might not have lifted it off. But flill 
plucking up my fpirits as well as I could, and en. 
couraging myfelf a little, with confidering that the 
power andprefence of God was every-where, and 
was able to proteft me ; upon this I ftepped forward 
again, and by the light of the firebrand, holding it 
up a little over my head, I faw lying on the ground 
a moil monftrous frightful old he-goat, juft making 
his will, as we fay, gafping for life, and dying in- 
deed of a mere old age. 

I ftirred him a little to fee if I could get him out, 
and he effayed to get up, but was not able to raife 
himfelf ; and I thought with myfelf, he might even 
lie there ; for if he had frightened me fo, he v/ould 
certainly fright any of the favages, if any of them 
fhould be fo hardy as to come in there^ while he had 
any life in liiiu* 

I was 



^ 



OF ROBINSON CRUSdi. *3l^5 

i was now recovered from my furprife, and began 
to look round me, when I found the cave was but 
very fmall ; that is to fay, it might be about twelve 
feet over, but in no manner of fhape, either round or 
fquare, no hands having ever been employed in 
making it but thofe of mere nature : I obferved alfo, 
that there was a place at the farther fide of it that went 
in farther, but fo low, that it required me to creep 
upon my hands and knees to get into it, and whither 
it went, I knew not ; fo having no candle, I gave it 
over for fome time, but refolved to come again the 
next day, provided with candles and a tinder-box, 
which I had made of the lock of one of the mufquets, 
with fome wildfire in the pan. 

Accordingly, the next day, I came provided with 
fix large candles of my own making, for I made very 
good candles now of goats tallow ; and going Into 
this low place, I was obliged to creep upon all fours, 
as I have faid, almoft ten yards ; which, by the way^ 
I thought was a venture bold enough, confidering 
that I knew not how far it might go, or what was 
beyond it. When I was got through the ftreight, 
I found the roof rofe higher up, I believe near twenty 
feet ; but never w^s fuch a glorious fight feen in the 
ifland, 1 dare fay, as it was, to look round the fides 
and roof of this vault or cave. The walls refleded 
an hundred thoufand lights to me from my two 
candles ; what it was in the rock, whether diamonds, 
or any other precious ftones, or gold, which I rather 
fuppofed it to be, I knew not. 

The . place I was in was a moft delightful cavity, 
or grotto, of its kind, as could be expected, though 
perfectly dark j the floor w:as dry and level, and had 

Vol. I. (^ a fort 



226 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

a fort of fmall loofe gravel upon It ; fo that there wa« 
no naufeous creature to be feen ; neither was there 
any damp or wet on the fides of the roof: the only 
difficulty in it was the entrance, which, however, as 
It was a place of fecurity, and fuch a retreat as I 
wanted, I thought that was a convenience ; fo that I 
was really rejoiced at the difcovery, and refolved, 
without any delay, to bring fome of thofe diings 
which I was moft anxious about to this place ; par. 
ticulaily, I refolved to bring hither my magazine of 
powder, and all my fpare arms, viz, two fowling* 
pieces (for I had three in all) and three mufquets (for 
of them I had eight in all) ; fo I kept at my caftle 
only five, which flood ready mounted, like pieces 
of cannon, on my outmoft fence, and were ready 
alfo to take out upon any expedition. 

Upon this occafion of removing my ammunition, I 
was obliged to open the barrel of powder which I 
took up out of the fea, and which had been wet; and 
I found, that the water had penetrated aboilt three or 
four inches into the powder on every fide, which, 
caking and growing hard, had preferved the infide 
like a kernel in a fhell j fo that I had near fixty 
pounds of very good powder in the centre of the 
cafk ; and this was an agreeable difcovery to^me at 
that time ; fo I carried all away thither, neverkeeping 
above two or three pounds of powder with me in my 
caftle, for fear of afurprife of any kind ; I alfo carried 
thither all the lead I had left for bullets. . 

I fancied myfelf now like one of the antient giants, 
which were faid to live in caves and holes in the rocks, 
where none could come at them; for I perfuaded my- 
felf while I was here, if five hundred favages were to 

hunt 



bF ROBINSON CRUSOE# ^2f 

hint me, they could never find me out ; or if they 
did, they would not venture to attack me here. 

The old goat, which I found expiring, died in the 
mouth of the cave the next day after I made this 
difcoVery ; and I found it much eafier to dig a great 
hole there, and throw him in, and cover him with 
earth, than to drag him out : fo I interred him 
there, to prevent offence to my nofe. 

I was now in my twenty-third year of refidence in 
this ifland, and was fo naturalized to the place, and 
to the manner of living, that could I have but enjoyed 
the certainty that no favages would come to the 
place to difturb me, I could have been content to 
have capitulated for fpending the reft of my time 
there, even to the laft moment, till I had laid me 
down and died, like the old goat, in the cave: I had 
alfo arrived to fome little diverfions and amufements, 
which made the time pafs more pleafantly with me a 
great deal than it did before ; as, firft, I had taught 
my Poll, as I noted before, to fpeak ; and he did it fo 
familiarly, and talked fo articulately and plain, that 
it was very pleafant to me"^; and he lived with me no 
lefs than fix*-and-twenty years : how long he might 
live afterwards I knew not ; though I know they 
have a notion in the Brqfils^ that they live an hun- 
dred years ; perhaps fome of my polls may be alive 
there ftill, calling after Poor Robin Crufoe to this 
day ; I wifh no Englijhman the ill luck to come there 
and hear them ; but if he did, he would certainly 
believe it was the devi}. My dog was a very pleafant 
and loving companion to me for no lefs than fixtcen 
years of my time, and then died of mere old age ; 
as for my cats, they multiplied^ as I have obferved, 

C^2 to 



128 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

to that degree, that I was obliged to fhoot feverat 
of them at firft, to keep them from devouring mej 
and all I had ; but at length, when the two old ones 
I brought with me were gone, and after fome time 
continually driving them from me, and letting them 
have no provifion with me, they all ran wild into 
the woods, except tv/o or three favourites, which I 
kept tame, and whofe young, when they had any, I 
always drowned, and thefe were part of my family : 
befides thefe, I always kept two or three houfehold 
kids about me, which I taught to feed out of my 
hand; and I had alfo more parrots which talked 
pretty well, an^ would all call Robin Crufoe^ but none 
like my firft ; nor, indeed, did I take the pains with 
any of them that I had done with him : I had alfo 
feveral tame fea-fowls, whofe names I know not^ 
which I caught upon the fhore, and cut their wings ; 
and the little flakes, which I had planted before my 
caftle wall, being now grown up to a good thick 
grove, thefe fowls all lived among thefe low trees, 
and bred there, which was very agreeable to me ; fo 
that, as I faid above, I began to be very well con- 
tented with the life I led, if it might but have been 
fecured from the dread of favages. 

But it was otherwife direfted ; and It might not be 
aniifs for all people who fhall meet with my ftory to 
make this j'uft obfervation from It, viz. How fre- 
quently, in the courfe of our lives, the evil^ which 
in itfelf we feek moft to fliun, and which, when we 
are fallen into, is the moil dreadful to us. Is often- 
times the very means or door of oiir deliverance, by 
which alone we can be raifed again from the afllic- 
tion we are* fallen into : I could give many examples 

of 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 229 

cf this in the courfe of my unaccountable life ; but 
in nothing was it more particularly remarkable, than 
in the circumftances of my laft years of folitary re- 
fidence in this ifland. 

It was now the month of December j as I faid above, 
in my twenty-third year ; and this being the fouth'ern 
folftice, for winter I cannot call it, was the particular 
time of my harveft, and required my being pretty 
much abroad in the fields ; when going out pretty 
early in'the morning, even before it was thorough 
day-light, I was furprifed with feeing a light of fome 
fire upon the fhore, at a diftance from me of about 
two miles, towards the end of the ifland, where I had 
obferved fome favages had been, as before ; but not 
on the other fide j but, to my great affliflion, it was 
on my fide of the ifland. 

I was indeed terribly furprifed at the fight, and 
flopped fliort within my grove, not daring to go out^ 
Jeft I might be furprifed ; and yet I had no more peace 
within, from the apprehenfions I had, that if thefe 
favages, in rambling over the ifland, fhould find my 
corn ftanding, or cut, or any of my works and im- 
provements, they would immediately conclude that 
there were people in the place, and would then never 
give over till they found me out ; in this extremity 
I went back diredly to my caftle, pulled up the lad- 
der after me, having made all things without look as 
wild and natural as I could. . 

Then I prepared myfelf within, putting myfelf in a 
pofture of defence ; I baded all my cannon, as I 
called them, that is to fay, my mufquets, which were 
mounted upon my new fortification, and all my piftols, 
?nd refolved to defend myfelf tg the laft gafp ; not 
0^3 forgetting 



130 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

forgetting ferioufly to recommend myfelf to the divine 
protedion, and earneftly to pray fo God to deliver 
me out of the hands of the barbarians ; and in this 
pofture I continued about two hours, but began to be 
mighty impatient for intelligence abroad, for I had 
no fpies to fend out. 

After fitting a while longer, and mufing what I 
Ihould do in this cafe, I was not able to bear fitting 
in ignorance longer ; fo fctting up my ladder to the 
fide of the hill, where there was a flat place, as I 
obferved before, and then pulling the ladder up after 
me, I fet it up again, and mounted to the top of the 
hill ; and' pulling out my perfpedive glafs, which \ 
had taken on purpofe, I laid me down flat oiv my 
belly on the ground, and began to look for the 
place : I prefently found there were no lefs than 
nine naked favages fitting round a fmall fire they had 
made ; not to warm them, for they had no need of 
that, the weather being extreme hot ; but, as I fup^? 
pofed, to drefs fome of their barbarous diet of human 
flefti which they had brought 'vvith them, whether 
alive or dead I could not know. 

They had two canoes with them, which they had 
haled up upon the Ihore ; and as it was then tide of 
tbb, they feemed to me to wait the return of the 
flood to go away again. It is not eafy to imagine 
what confufion this fight put me into, efpecially feeing 
' them come on my fide the ifland, and fo near me 
tc^o ; but when I obferved their coming muft be al- 
ways with the current of the ebb, I began afterwards 
to be more fedate in my mind, being fatisfied that I 
might go abroad with fafety all the time of tide of 
flood, if they were not on ihore before j and having 

made 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 23! 

made this obfervation, I went abroad about my har- 
veft work with the more compofure. ' 

As I expefted, fo it proved ; for as foon as the tide 
made to the weftward, I faw them all take boat, and 
row (or paddle, as wc call it) all away : I fliould have 
obferved, that for an hour and more before they went 
off, they went to dancing, and I could eafily difcern 
their poftures and geftures by my glaffes : I could 
only perceive, by my niceft obfervation, that they 
were ftark naked, and had not the leaft covering 
upon them ; but whether they were men or women 
that I could not diftinguifli. 

As foon as I faw them (hipped and gone, I took two 
guns upon my fhoulders, and two piftols at my girdle, 
and my great fword by my fide, without a fcabbard ; 
and with all the fpeed I was able to make, I went 
away to the hill, where I had difcovered the firft ap- 
pearance of all. As foon as I got thither, which was 
not lefs than two hours (for I could not go apace, be- 
ing fo loaded with arms as I was), I perceived there had 
been three canoes more of favages on that place; and 
looking out further, I faw they were all at fea to- 
gether, making over for the main. 

This was a dreadful fight to me, efpecially, when 
going down to the fliore, I could fee the marks of 
horror which the difmal work they had been about 
had left behind it, viz, the blood, the bones, and 
part of th^ flefh of human bodies, eaten and devoured 
by thofe wretches with merriment and fport. I 
was fo filled with indignation at the fight, that I be- 
gan now to premeditate the deftruftion of the next 
tl^at I fisiw there, l^t them be who or how many foeven 

9.4 It 



232 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

It feemed evident to me, that the vifits which they 
thus made to this ifland were not very frequent; 
for it was above fifteen months before any more of 
them came on Ihore there again ; that is to fay, I 
never faw them, or any footfteps or fignals of them, 
in all that time ; for as to the rainy feafons, then they 
5ire fure not to come abroad, at leaft rtqt fo ikr ; yet 
all this while I livqd uncomfortably, by reafon of the 
conftant apprehenfions I was in of their coming upon 
xne by furprife ; from whence I obferve, that the 
cxpeftation of evil is more bitter than the ftiffering, 
efpecially if there is no room to (hake off that expecr 
tation or thofe apprehenfions. 

During all this time, I was in the murdering hu- 
mour ; and took up mod of my hours, which (hould 
have been better employed, in contriving how to 
circumvent and fall upon them the very next time I 
fhould fee them ; efpecially if they fhoi^ld be di- 
vided, as they were the laft time, into two parties ; 
nor did I confider at all, that if I killed one party, 
fuppofe ten or a dozen, I was ftill the next day, or 
week, or month, to kill another, and fo another, 
even ad infinitum^ till I fhbuld be at length no lefs 
a murderer than they were in being men-eaters, and 
perhaps much more fo. 

I fpcnt my days now in great perplexity and 
anxiety of mind, expefling that I fhould one day or 
other fall into the hands of thofe mercilefs creatures; 
if I did at any time venture abroad, it was liot with- 
out looking round me with the greateft care and 
caution imaginable ; and now I found, to my great 
comfort, how happy it was that I had provided a tame 

• flock 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 233 

floek or herd of goats ; for I durft. not, upon any 
account, fire my gun, efpecially near that fide of the 
ifland where they ufually came, left I (hould alarm 
the favages ; and if they had fled from me now, I was 
fure to have 4:hem come back again, with perhaps two 
pr three hundred canoes with them in a few days, and 
then I knew what to ex{)e<9:. 

However, I wore out a year and three months 
more before I ever faw any more of the favages, and 
then I found them again, as I fliall foon obferve. It 
IS true, they might have been there once or twice, 
but either they n^ade no ftay, or, at leaft, I did not 
]bear themj. but in the month of May^ as near as \ 
could calculate, and in my four and twentieth year, 
I had a very ftrange encounter with them, of which 
jn its place. 

The perturbjition of my mind, during this fifteen 
pr fixteen months interval, was very great ; I flept 
imquiet, dreamed always frightful dreams, and often 
ftarted put of my fleep in the night \ in the day great 
^roubles overwhelmed my mind ; in the night I 
dreamed often of killing the favages, and the reafons 
why I might juftify the doing of it : but to wave all 
this for a while, it was in the- middle of May^ on the 
fixteenth day, I think, as well as my poor wooden 
calendar would reckon, for I marked all upon the 
poft ftill ; I fay, it was on the fixteenth of May^ that 
it blew a great ftorm of wind all day, with a great 
deal of lightning and thunder, and a very foul night 
was after it: I know not what was the particular 
occafion of it ; but as I was reading in the bible, and 
taken up with ferious thoughts about my prefent con- 
dition. 



234 ^^^^ ^^"^ ADVENTURES 

dition, I was furprifed with the noife of a gun, as I 
thought, fired at fea. 

This was, to be fure, a furprife of a quite different 
nature from any I had met with before ; for the no. 
tions this put into my thoughts were quite of another 
kiild : I ftarted up in the greateft hafte imaginable ; 
and in a trice clapped up my ladder to the middle 
place of the rock, and pulled it after me, and mount- 
ing it the fecond time, got to the top of the hill; that 
very moment a flafh of fire bade me liften for a fecond 
gun, which accordingly in about half a moment I 
heard, and by the found knew that it was from that 
part of the fea where I was driven out with the cur- 
rent in my boat, 

I immediately confidered that this muft be fome 
fliip in diftrefs, and that they had fome comrade, or 
fome other fhip in company, and fired thefe guns for 
fignals of diftrefs, and to obtain help : I had this 
prefence of mind at that minute as to think, that 
though I could hot help theni, it may be they might 
help me ; fo I brought together all the dry wood I 
could get at hand, and making a good handfome 
pile, I fet it on fire upon the hill ; the wood was 
dry, and blazed freely, and though the wind blew 
very hard, yet it burnt fairly out, fo that I was cer« 
tain, if there was any fuch thing as a fhip, they muft 
need fee it, and no doubt they did ; for as foon as 
ever my fire blazed up, I heard another gun, and 
after that feveral others, all from the fame quarter^ 
I plied my fire all night long, till day broke ; and 
when it was broad day, and the air cleared up, I faw 
fomething at a great diftance at fea> full eaft of the 

ifland, 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 235 

jfland, whether a fail, or an hull, I could not diftin- 
guifh, no not with my glafles, the diftance was fo 
great, and the weather ftiil fomething hazy alfo ; at 
lead it was fo out at fea. 

I looked frequently at it all that day, and foon per- 
ceived that it did not move ; fo I prefently concluded 
that it was a Ihip at anchor; and being eager, you 
may be fure, to be fatisfied, I took my gun in my 
hand, and ran towards the fouth-eaft fide 6f the 
Jfland, to the rocks, where I had been formerly carried 
away with the current ; and getting up there, the 
weather by this time being perfeftly clear, I could 
plainly fee, to my great forrow, the wreck of a fhip 
caft away in the night upon thofe concealed rocks 
which I found when I was out in my boat ; and which 
rocks, as they checked the violence of the ftream, 
and made a kind of counter-ftream, or eddy, were 
the occafion of my recovering then from the moft 
defperate hopelefs condition that ever I had been in 
lall my life. 

Thus, what is one man's fafety is another man's 
deftru£tion ; for it feems thefe men, whoever they 
were, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks 
being wholly under water, had been driven upon 
jhem in the night, the wind blowing hard at E. and 
E. N. E. Had they feen the ifland, as I muft necef- 
farily fuppofe they did not, they muft, as I thought, 
have endeavoured to have faved themfelves on fhore 
by the help of their boat ; but the firing of their 
guns for help, efpecially when they faw, as I ima- 
gined, my fire, filled me with many thotights: firft, 
I imagined, that, upon feeing my light, they might 
hare put themfelves into their boat, and have en- 
deavoured 



236 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

deavoured to make the fhore ; but that the fea going 
very high, they might have been caft away ; other 
times I imagined, that they might have loft their 
boat before, as might be the cafe many ways ; as 
particularly, by the breaking of the fea upon their 
Ihip, which many times obliges men to ftave, or take 
in pieces their boat ; and fometimes to throw it over- 
board with their own hands : other times I imagined, 
they had fome other fliip or (hips in company, who, 
upon the fignals of diftrefs they had made, had taken 
them up, and carried them off : other whiles I fan- 
cied they were all gone off to fea in their boat, an3 
being hurried away by the current that I had been 
formerly in^ were carried out into the great ocean, 
where there was nothing but mifery and perifliing; 
and that perhaps they might by this time think of 
ftarving, and of being in a condition to eat one 
another. 

As all thefe were but conjeftures at beft, fo, in 
the condition I was in, I could do no more than look 
upon the mifery of the poor men, and pity them ; 
which had ftill this good effeft on my fide, that it 
gave me more and more caufe to give thanks to God, 
who had fo happily and comfortably prbvided for me 
in my defolate condition ; and that of two fhips com- 
panies, who were now caft aWay upon this part of the 
world, not one life fliould be fpared but mine, I 
learnt here again to obferve, that it is very rare that 
the providence of God cafts us into any condition of 
life fo low, or any mifery fo great, but we may fee 
fomething or other to be thankful for, and may fee 
others in worfe circumftances than our own. 

Such 



O? ROBINSON CRUSOE. I37 

Such certainly was the cafe of thefe men, of 
whom I could not fo much as fee room to fuppofe any 
of them were faved ; nothing could make it rational, 
fo m\ich as to wilh or expeft that they did not all 
perifh there, except the poffibility only of their being 
taken up by another fhip in company : and this was 
but mere poffibility indeed ; for I faw not the leaft 
fignal or appearance of any fuch thing. 

I cannot explain, by any poffible .energy of words, 
what a ftrange longing, or hankering of defire, I felt 
in my foul upon this fight ; breaking out fometimes 
thus : O that there had been but one or two, nay, 
*but one foul faved out of the Ihip, to have efcaped 
to me, that I might but have had one companion, 
one fellow-creature to have fpoken to me, and to 
have converted with ! In all the time of my folitary 
life, I never felt fo earneft, fo ftrong a defire after 
the fociety of my fellow-creatures, or fo deep a re- 
gret at the want of it, . 

There are fome fecret moving fprings in the affec- 
tions, which, when they are fet a going by fome 
objeftin view, orbeit fome objeQ; though not in view^, 
yet rendered prefent to the mind by the power of 
imagination, that motion carries out the foul by its 
impetuofity to fuch violent eager embracings of the 
objeft, that the abfence of it is infupportable. 

Such were thefe earneft wifliings, That but one 
man had been faved ! O that it had been but one ! I 
believe I repeated the words, O that it had been but 
one ! a thoufand times ; and my defires were fo moved 
by it, that when I fpoke the, words, my hands would 
clinch together, and my fingers prefs the palms of my - 
hands, that if I had had any foft thing in my hand, 

•it 



^^t tltE AND ADVENTURES 

It would have cniflied it Involuntarily ; and my teetk 
in my head would ftrike together, and fet againft one 
another fo ftrong, that for fome time I could not part 
them again. 

Let the naturalifts explain thefe things, and the 
reafon and manner of them: all I can fay of them 
is, to defcribe the fad, which was ever furprifing to 
me when I found it, though I knew not from what 
it fhould proceed ; it was doubtlefs the effeft of ar- 
dent wifhes, and of ftrong ideas formed in my mind, 
realizing the comfort which the converfation of one 
of my fellow-chriftians would have been to me. 

But it was not to be ; either their fate, or mine, 
or both, forbad it ; for till the laft year of my being 
on this ifland^ I never knew whether any were faved 
out of that fhip, or no ; and had only the afflidtion 
fome days after to fee the corpfe of a drowned boy 
come on (hore, at the end. of the ifland which was 
next the fhipwreck: he had on no clothes but a 
feaman's waiftcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen 
drawers, and a blue linen Ihirt ; but nothing to dired 
me fo much as to guefs what nation he was of: he 
had nothing in his pocket but two pieces- of eight, 
and a tobacco-pipe ; the laft was to me of ten times 
more value than the firft. 

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to ven-* 
lure out'in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I 
might find fomething on board that might be ufeful 
to me ; but that did not altogether prefs me fo much, 
as the poffibility that there might be, yet fome living 
creature on board, whofe life I might not only fave, 
but might, by faving that life, comfort my owtji to 
the laft degree : and this thought clung fo to my 

heart, 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ^^p 

heart, that I could not be quiet night nor day, but I 
muft venture out in my boat on board this wreck ; 
and committing the reft to God's providence, I 
thought the impreffion was fo ftrong upon my mind, 
that it could not be refifted, that it muft come from 
fome invifible diredlion, and that I fhould be want- 
ing to myfelf if I did not go. 

Under the powei of this impreffion, I haftened 
back to my, caftle, prepared every thing for my 
voyage, took a quantity of bread, a great pot for 
frefli water, a compafs to fteer by, a bottle of rum 
(for I had ftill a great deal of that left), a bafket full 
of xaifins : and thus loading myfelf with every thing 
necefTary, I went down to my boat, got the water 
out of her, and got her afloat, loaded all my cargo 
in her, and then went home again for more : my 
fecond cargo was a great bag full of rice, the um- 
brella to fet up over my head for fhade, another 
large pot full of frefli water, and about two dozen of 
itiy fmall loaves, or barley-cakes, more than before^ 
with a bottle of goats milk, and a cheefe ; all )vhich, 
with great labour and fweat, I brought to my boat ; 
and praying to God to direfl my voyage, I put out, 
and rowing or paddling the canoe along the fliore, I 
came at laft to the utnioft point of the ifland, on that 
* fide, viz. N. E. And now I was to launch out 
into the ocean, and either to venture, or nbt to ven- 
ture ; I looked on the rapid currents which ran con- 
ftantly on both fides of the ifland, at a diftance. and 
which were very terrible to me, from the remem- 
brance of the hazard I had been in before, and my 
heart began to fail me ; for I forefaw, that if I was 
driven into either of thofe currents, I fliould be car- 
ried 



ft40 " JLIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ried a vaft way out to fea, and perhaps out oJ? rtiy 
reach, or fight of the ifland again ; and that then, a^ 
my boat was but fmall, if any little gale of wind 
fhould rife, I fhould be inevitably loft* 

Thefe thoughts fo oppreffed my mind, that I began 
to give over my enterprife, and having haled my boat 
into a little creek on thefhore, I ftepped out, and fat- , 
me down upon a little fpot of rifing ground, very 
pcnfive and anxious, between fear and defire, about 
my voyage; when, as I was mufing, I could perceive 
that the tide w^s turned, and the flood came on, 
upon which my going was for fo many hours imprac- 
ticable : upon this it prefently occurred to me, that 
I fhould go up to the higheft piece of ground I could 
find, and obferve, if I could, how the fets of the tide 
or currents lay, when the flood came in, that I might 
judge whether, if I was driven one way out, I might 
not expeft to be driven another way home, with the 
fame rapidnefs of the currents : this thought was no 
fooner in my head, but I caft my eye upon a little 
hill which fufiiciently overlooked the fea both ways, 
and from whence I had a clear view of the currents, 
or fets of the tide, and which way I was to guide 
myfelf in my return : here I found, that as the cur* 
rent of the ebb fet out clofe by the fouth point of the 
ifland, fo the current of the flood fet in clofe by the 
fliore of the north-fide ; and that I had nothing to do 
but to keep to the north of the ifland in my. return, 
and I fliould do well enough. 

Encouraged with this obfervation, I refolved the 

next morning to fet out with the firft of the tide ; and 

, repofing myfelf for that night in the canoe, und^ 

the great watch-coat I mentioned, I launched out.; 

I made 



fcF kOBINSON CRUSOE. 241 

1 made fitft a Httle out to fea full north, till I began 
to feel the benefit of the current, which fet eaftward, 
and which carried me at a great rate, and yet did not 
jfo hurry me as the fouthern fide current had done 
before, and fo as to take from me all government of 
the boat ; but having a ftrong fteerage with my pad- 
dle, I went, I fay, at a great rate, direftly for the 
wreck, and in lefs than two hours I came up to it. 

It was a difmal Tight to look at : the (hip, which 
by its building was Spanijh^ ftuck faft, jambed in 
between two rocks ; all the ftern and quarter of her 
was beaten to pieces with the fea ; and as her fore- 
caftle, which ftuck in the rocks, had run on with 
great violence, her main-maft and fore-maft were 
brought by the board, that is to fay, broken fhort 
off, but her boltfprit was found, and the head and 
bow appeared firm : when I came cloi'e to her, a 
dog appeared upon her, which, feeing me coming, 
yelped and cried, and as foon as I called him, jumped 
into the fea to come to me ; and I took him into the 
boat, but found him almoft dead for hunger and 
thirft : I gave him a cake of my bread, and he ate 
like a ravenous wolf that had been ftarving a fort- 
night in the fnow 2 I then gave the poor creature 
fome frefli water, with which, if I would have let 
him, he would have burft himfelf* 

•After this I went on board ; the firft fight I met 
^vith was two men drowned in the cook-room, or 
ibrecaftle of the fhip, with their arms faft about one 
another. I concluded, as is indeed probable, that 
when the fnip ftruck, it being in a ftorm, the fea 
broke fo high, and fo continually over her, that the 
men were not able to bear it, and were ftrangled with 

Vol. I.- R the 



i4^ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

the conftant rufhing in of the water, as much as if 
they had been under water : befides the dog, there 
was nothing left in the (hip that had life, nor any 
goods that I could fee, but what were fpoiled by the 
water : there were fome cafks of liquor, whether 
wine or brandy I knew not, which lay lower in the 
hold, and which, the water being ebbed out, I could 
fee ; but they were too big to meddle with : I faw 
feveral chefts, which I believed belonged to fome of 
the feamen, and I got two of them into the boat with- 
out examining what was in them. 

Had the ftern of the fhip been fixed, and the fore 
part broken off, I am perfuaded I might have made 
a good voyage ; for by what I found in thefe two 
chefts, I had room to fuppofe the (hip had a great 
deal of wealth on board ; and if I may guefs by the 
courfe file fleered, (he muft have been bound from 
the Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in the 
fouth part of America, beyond the Brafils, to the 
Havanna, in the gulph of Mexico, and fo perhaps 
to Spain : (he had, no doubt, a great treafure in her, 
but of no ufe at that time to any body ; and what 
became of the reft of her people I then knew not. 

I found, befides- thefe Chefts, a little ca(k full of 
liquor, of about twenty gallons, which I got into my 
boat with much difficulty : there were feveral muf- 
quets in a cabin, and a great powder-horn, with 
about four pounds of powder in it j as for the muf- 
quets, I had no occafion for them, fo I left them, 
but took the powder-horn : I took a fire-(hovel and 
tongs, which I wanted extremely ; as alfo two Httle 
brafs kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate, and a 
grid-iron j and with this cargo, and the dog, I came 

away, 



0^ HOBIKSON CRUSOE* (^43 

^way^ the tide beginning to make home again ; and 
the fame evening, about an hour within night, I 
teached the ifland again, weary and fatigued to the 
laft degree* 

I repofed that night in the boat, and in the morn- 
ing I refolved to harbour what I had gotten in my 
new cave, not to carry it home to my caftle : after 
refrelhing myfelf, I got all my cargo on (hore, and 
began to examine the particulars : the calk of liquor 
I found to be a kind of rum, but not fuch as we had 
at the Brafils ; and, in a word, not at all good ; but 
when I came to open the chefts, I found feveral 
things which I wanted : for example, I found in one 
a fine cafe of bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and 
filled with cordial waters, fine, and very good ; the 
bottles held about three pints each, and were tipped 
with filver ; I found two pots of very good fuccades, 
or fweetmeats, fo faftened alfo on the top, that the 
fait water had not hurt them ; and two more of the 
fame, which the water had fpoiled : I found fome 
very good fliirts, which were very welcome to me, 
and about a dozen and an half of white linen hand- 
kerchiefs, and coloured neckcloths ; the former were 
alfo very welcome, being exceeding refrefhing to 
wipe my face in an hot day ; befides this, when I 
came to the till in the chefts, I found there three great 
bags of pieces of eight, which held about eleven 
hundred pieces in all ; and in one of them, wrapt 
up in a paper, fix doubloons of gold, and fome fmall 
bars or wedges of gold j I fuppofe they might all 
Aveigh near a pound. 

The other cheft I found had fome clothes in it, but 
cf little value j but by the circumftances, it muft have 

R a belonged 



244 ^i^E AND ADVENTURES 

belonged to the gunner's mate, as there was no pow^ 
der ^in it, but about two pounds of glazed pow- 
der in the three flafks, kept, I fuppofe, for charg- 
ing their fowling-pieces on occafion : upon the whole, 
I got very little by this voyage that was of much ufc 
to me ; for as to the- money, I had no manner of 
occafion for it ; it was to me as the dirt under my 
feet ; and I would have given it all for three or four 
pair oi Englijh fhoes and ftockings, which were things 
I greatly wanted, but had not had on my feet now 
for many years ; I had, indeed, got two pair of 
Ihoes now, which I took off the feet of the two 
drowned men whom I faw in the wreck ; and I 
I found two pair more in one of the chefts, which 
were very welcome to me ; but they were not like our 
Englijh fhoes, either for eafe or fervice, being rather 
v/hat we call pumps than flioes : I found in the fea- 
man*s chefl about fifty pieces of eight in royals, but 
no gold ; I fuppofe this belonged to a poorer man 
than the other, which fecmed to belong to feme- 
officer. 

Well, however, I lugged the money home to my 
cave, and laid it up, as I had done that before, 
which I brought from our own fhip ; but it was great 
pity, as I faid, that the other part of , the fhip had not" 
come to my fhare, for I am fatisfied I might have 
loaded my canoe feveral times over with money, 
which, if I had ever efcaped to England^ would have 
lain here fafe enough till I might have come again 
and fetched it. 

Having now brought all my things on fhore, and 
fecured them, I went back to my boat, and rowed or 
, paddled her along the fhore to her old harbour, where 

Ilaid 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 245 

I laid her up, and made the beft of my way to my old 
habitation, where I found every thing fafe and quiet ; 
fo I began to repofe myfelf, live after my old falhion, 
and take care of my family affairs ; and for a while I 
lived eafy enough ; only that I was more vigilant 
than I ufed to be, looked out oftener, and did not go 
abroad fo much ; and if at any time I did flir with 
any freedom, it was always to the eaft part of the 
ifland, where I was pretty well fatisfied the favages 
never came, and where I could go without fo many 
precautions, and fuch a load of arms and ammuni- 
tion as I always carried with me, if I went the other 
way. 

I lived in this condition near two years more ; but 
my unlticky head, that was always to let me know it 
was born to make my body miferable, was all thefe 
two years filled with projects and defigns, how, if it 
were poffible, I might get away from this ifland ; for 
fometimes I was for making another voyage to the 
wreck, though my reafon told me, that there was 
nothing left there worth the hazard of my voyage : 
fometimes for a ramble one way, fometimes another ; 
and I believe verily, if I had had the boat that I went 
fromS^2://<?^in, I ihould have ventured to fea, bound 
anywhere, I knew not whither. 

I have been, in all my circumftances, a memento 
to thofe who are touched with that general plague of 
mankind, whence, for aught I know, one half of 
their miferies flow ; I mean, that of not being fatis* 
iied with the fl:ation wherein God and nature hath 
placed them ; for, not to look back upon my primi- 
tive condition, and the excellent advice of my father, 
the oppofition to which was, as I may call it, my 

R 3 original 



a^6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

original fin, my fubfequent miftakes of the fame klni 
have been the means of my coming into this mik^ 
rable condition ; for had that Providence, which fo 
happily had feated me- at the Brafih as a planter, 
blefled me with confined defires, and could I have 
been contented to have gone on gradually, I might 
have been by this time, I mean in the time of my 
being on this ifland, one of the mod confiderable 
planters in the Brafih \ nay, I am perfuaded, that 
by the improvements I had made in that little time I 
lived there, and the increafe I fhould probably have 
made if I had flayed, I might have been worth aA 
hundred thoufand moidores ; and what bufinefs had 
I to leave a fettled fortune, w^ell- flocked plantation, 
improving and increafmg, to turn fupercargo to 
Guinea^ to fetch Negroes, when patience and time 
would have fo increafed our flock at home, that we 
could have bought them at our own doors, from 
thofe whofe bufinefs it was* to fetch them? And 
though it had coft us fomething more, yet the differ^- 
ence of that price was by no means .worth faving at 
fo great a hazard. 

But as this is ordinarily the fate of young heads, fo 
. refleftion upon the folly of it is as ordinarily the 
exercife of more years, or of the dear-bought expe- 
rie^ice of time ; and fo it was with me now ; and yet, 
fo deep had the miftake taken root in my temper, 
that I could not fatisfy myfelfin myflation, but was 
Continually poring upon the means and poffibility of 
my efcape from this place ; and that I may, with the 
greater pleafure to the reader, bring on the remain- 
ing part of my flory, it may not be improper to give 
fome account of my fiirfl conceptions on the fubjefl: of 

this 



or ROBINSON CRUSOE, 247 

this foolifli fcheme for my efcape; and how, and 
upon what foundation, I aded. 

I am novv to be fuppofed to be retired into piy 
caftle, after my late voyage to the wreck, my frigate 
laid up, and fecured under water as ufual, and my 
condition reftored to what it was before : I had 
more wealth', indeed, than I had before, but was not 
at all the richer ; for I had no more ufe for it than 
the Indians of Peru had before the Spaniards came 
thither. 

It was one of the nights, in the rainy feafon in 
March^ the four-and-twentieth year of my firft fetting 
foot in this ifland of folitarinefs, I was lying in my 
bed or hammock, awake, and very well in health, 
had no pain, no diftemper, no uneafmefs of body? 
no, nor any uneafmefs of mind more than ordinary, 
but could by no means clofe my eyes, that is, fo as 
to fleep ; no, not a wink all night long, otherwif<^ 
than as follows : 

It is as impoflible, as needlefs, to fet down the innun 
jnerable crowd of thoughts that whirled through that 
great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory, in this 
night's time : I ran over the whole hiftory of my life 
in miniature, or by abridgment, as I may call it, to 
my coming to this ifland ; and alfo of that part of 
my life fince I came to this ifland ; in my reflec- 
tions upon the ftate of my cafe, fmce I came on 
ihore on this ifland ; I was comparing the happy 
poftur^ of my affairs, in the firll years of my habita* 
tion here, to that courfe of anxiety, fe^r and care, 
which I had lived in ever fince I had feen the print of 
a foot in the fand ; not that I did not believe the fava- 
ges had frequented the ifland even all the while, and 
might have been feveral hun4reds of them at times 

R 4 on 



^48 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

on the (hore there ; but as I had never known It, and 
was Incapable of any apprehenfions about it, my 
fatisfadion was perfeft, though my danger was the 
fame ; and I was as happy in not knowing my dan- 
ger, as If I had never really been expofed to it ; this 
furniflied my thoughts with many very profitable 
refleftions, and particularly this one: How infinitely 
good that Providence is, which has fettled in its 
government of mankind fuch narrow bounds to his 
fight and knowledge of things ; and though he walks 
in the midfl of fo many thoufand dangers, the fight 
of which, if difcovered to him, would diftrafl: his 
mind, and fink his fplrits, he Is kept ferene and 
calm, by having the events of things hid from his 
eyes, and loiowing nothing of the dangers which fur^ 
round him. 

After thefe thoughts had for fome time entertained 
me, I came to refledt ferloufly upon the real danger 
I had been in for fo many years in this very ifland j 
and how I had walked about in the greateft fecurity> 
and with all poffible tranquillity, even perhaps when 
nothing but a brow on a hill, a great tree, or the 
cafual approach of night, had been between me and 
the worfl: kind of deftruftion, viz. that of falling 
into the hands of canibals and favage^, who would 
have feized on me with the fame view as I did on a 
goat or a turtle, and havq thought it no more a crime 
to kill and devour me, than I did of a pigeon or a 
curlleu; I Ihould unjuflily flander myfelf, if I fliould 
fay I was not fincerely thankful to my great Preferver, 
to whofe fingular proteftion I acknowledged, with 
great humility, that all thefe unknown deliveran- 
ces were due, and without which I fliould inevitably 
liave fallen into their mercilefs hands. 

When 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 249 

When thefe thoughts were over, my head was for 
feme time taken up in confidering the nature of thefe 
wretched creatures,' I mean, the favagesjand how- 
it came to pafs in the world, that the wife Governor 
of all things fhould give up any of his creatures to 
fuch inhumanity, nay, to fomething fo much below 
even brutality itfelf, as to devour its own kind : but 
as this ended in fome (at that time fruitlefs) fpecula- 
tions, it occurred to me to inquire what part of the 
world thefe wretches lived in ; how far off the coaft 
was from whence they came ; what they ventured fo 
far from home for ; what kind of boats they had ; 
and why I might not order myfelf, and my bufinefs 
fo, that I might be as able to go over thither, as they 
\vere to come to me, 

I never fo much as troubled myfelf to confider, 
what I fliould do with myfelf when I came thither ; 
what fhould become of me if I fell into the hands of 
the favages ; or how I fliould efcape from them, if 
they attempted me ; no, nor fo much as how it was 
pofl^ible for me to reach the coaft, and not be attacked 
by fome or other of them, without any poflibility of 
delivering myfelf; and if I fliould not fall into their 
hands, what I fliould do for provifion, or whither i 
ihould bend my courfe ; none of thefe thoughts, I 
fay, fo much as came in my way ; but my mind was 
wholly bent upon the notion of my pafling over in 
my boat to the main land : I looked back upon my 
prefent condition as the moft miferable that could 
poflibly be ; that I was not abie to throw myfelf into 
any thing but death that could be called worfe ; that 
if I reached the fliore of the main, I might, perhaps, 
meet with relief j or I might coaft along, as I did on 

• the 



25^ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

killing them all ; and this was not only a very 
defperate attempt, and might mifcarry; but, on the 
other hand, I had greatly fcrupled the lawfulnefs of 
it to me, and my heart trembled at the thoughts^ of 
fliedding fo much blood, though it was for my de. 
liverance : I need not repeat the arguments which 
occurred to me againft this, they being the fame 
mentioned before : but though I had other reafons to 
offer now, viz. that thofe men were enemies to my 
life, and would devour me, if they could; that it was 
felf-prefervation, in the highefl degree, to deliver my- 
felf from this death of a life, and was afliing in my own 
defence, as much as if they were aftually affaulting 
me, and the like ; I fay, though thefe things argued 
for it, yet the thoughts of fhedding human blood 
for my deliverance were very terrible to me, and fuch 
as I could by no means reconcile myfelf to a great 
while. 

However, at laft, after many fecret difputes with 
myfelf, and after great perplexities about it (for all 
thefe arguments, one way and another, flruggled in 
my head a long time), the eager prevailing defire of 
deliverance at length maftered all the reft, and I re- 
folved, if poffible, to get one of thefe favages into my 
hands, coft what it would : the next thing then was 
to contrive how to do it ; and this indeed was very 
difficult to refolve on : but as I could pitch upon no 
probable means for it, fo I refolved to put myfelf 
upon the watch to fee them when they came on fhore, 
and leave the reft to the event, taking fuch meafures 
as the opportunity Ihould prefent, let it be what it 
would. 

With 



OF ROBINSOlvr CRUSOE# 2^^ 

With thefe refolutions in my thoughts, I fet myfelf 
upon the fcout as often as poflible, and indeed fo 
often, till I was heartily tired of it ; for it was above 
a year and an half that I waited, and for a great part of 
that time went out to the weft end, and to the fouth- 
weft corner of the ifland, almoft every day, to fee the 
canoes, but none appeared : this was very difcourag- 
ing, and began to trouble me much ; though I can't 
fay that it did in this cafe, as it had done fome time 
before that, viz. wear off the edge of my defire to the 
thing; but the longer it feemed to be delayed, the 
more eager I was for it: in a word, I was not at firft 
more careful to fhun the fight of thefe favages, and 
avoid being feen by them, than I was now eager to 
be upon them. 

Befides, I fancied myfelf able to manage one, nay, 
two or three favages, if I had them, fo as to make 
them entirely flaves to me, to do whatever I fhould 
diredl them, and to prevent their being able, at any 
time, to do me any hurt : it was a great while that 

pleafed myfelf with this affair, but nothing ftill 
prefented ; all my fancies and fchemes came to 
nothing, for no favages came near me for a great 
while. 

About a year and an half after I had entertained 
thefe notions, and, by long mufing, had, as it were 
refolved them all into nothing, for want of an oecafion 
to put them in execution, I was furprifed one morn- 
ing early, with feeing no lefs than five canoes all on 
fhore together, on my fide the ifland, and the people 
who belonged to them all landed, and out of my 
fight: the number of them broke all my meafures; 
for feeing fo many, and knowing that they always 

came 



254 ^^^^ AND ADVENTURES! 

came four, or fix, or fometimes more, in a boat, I 
could not tell what to think of it, or how to take my 
meafures to attack tv/enty or thirty men fmgle- 
handed ; fo I lay ftill in my caftle, perplexed and 
difcomforted ; however, I put myfelf into all the 
fame poftures for an attack that I had formerly pro- 
vided, and was juft ready for aftion, if any thing 
had prefented : having waited a good while, liftening 
to hear if they made any noife ; at length being very 
impatient, I fet my guns at the foot of my ladder, and 
clambered up to the top of the hill by my two ftages, 
as ufual ; Handing fo, however, that my head did not 
appear above the hill, fo that they could not perceive 
me by any means : here I obferved, by the help of 
my perfpeftive glafs, that they were no lefs thirty in 
number ; . that they had a fire kindled, and that they 
had had meat dieffed ; how they cooked it, that I 
knew not, or what it was ; but they were all dancing 
in I know not how many barbarous geftures and 
figures, their own way, round the fire. - 

When I was thus looking on them, I perceived by 
my perfpeftive two miferable wretches dragged from 
the boats, where, it feems, they were laid by, and 
were now brought out for the flaughter : I perceived 
one of them immediately fall, being knocked down, 
I fuppofe, with a club or wooden fword, for that was 
their way ; and two or three others were at work im- 
mediately, cutting him open for their cookery, while 
the other viftim was left flanding by himfelf, till they 
fhould be ready for him : in that very moment this 
poor wretch, feeing himfelf a little at liberty, nature 
infpired him with hopes of life, and he flarted away 
from them, and ran with incredible fwiftnefs along 

the 



OF ROBINSON^ CRUSOE^ 255 

the fands, diredly towards ine, I mean, towards that 
part of the coaft where my habitation was. 

I was dreadfully frighted (that I muft acknow- 
ledge) when I perceived him to run my way ; and 
efpecially when, as I thought, I faw him purfued by 
the whole body ; and now I expefted that part of 
my dream was coming to pafs, and that he would 
certainly take fiielter in my grove ; but I could not 
depend, by any means, upon my dream for the reft 
of it, viz. that the other favages would not purfue 
him thither, and find him there. However, I kept 
my ftation, and my fpirits began to recover, when I 
found that there were not above three men that fol- 
lowed him ; and ftill more was I encouraged, when 
I found that he outftript them exceedingly in running, 
and gained ground of them, fo that if he could but 
hold it for half an hour, I faw eafily he would fairly 
get away from them all. 

There was between them and my caftle the creek, 
which I mentioned often at the firft part of hiy ftory, 
when I landed my cargoes out of the ihip ; and this I 
knew, he mud neceffarily fwim over, or the poor 
wretch would be taken there : but when the favage 
efcaping came thither, he made nothing of it, though 
the tide was then up ; but plunging in, fwam through 
in about thirty ftrokes, or thereabouts, landed, and 
ran on with exceeding ftrength and fwiftnefs ; when 
the three purfuers came to the creek, I found that two 
of them could fwim, but the third could not, and 
that he, ftanding on the other fide, looked at the 
other, but went no farther; and foon after went 
foftly back again, which, as it happened, was very 
well for him in the main. 

I obferved, 



^jS LIFE AND ADVENTUkEg 

I obferved, that the two who fwam were yet mOM 
than twice as long fwimming over the creek than tht 
fellow was that fled from them : it came now very 
warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irrefiftibly^ 
that now was my time to get a fervant, and perhaps 
a companion, . or afliflant, and that I was called 
plainly by Providence to fave this poor creature's life: 
I immediately got down the ladders with all pofTible. 
expedition, fetched my two guns, for they were 
both at the foot of the ladder, as I obferved above j 
and getting up again with the fame hafte to the top of . 
the hill, I crofTed towards the fea ; and having. a 
very fhort cut, and all down-hill, clapped myfelf hi, 
the way between the purfuers and the purfued, hal- 
looing aloud to hiih that fled, who, looking back, 
was at firft perhaps as much frighted at me as at 
them ; but I beckoned with my hand to him to come 
back J and in the mean time, I flow ly advanced to^ 
wards the two that followed} then ruffling at once 
upon the foremofl:, I knocked him down with the 
ftock of my piece ; I was loth to fire, becaufe I would 
not have the reft hear, though at that diftance it 
would not have been cafily heard ; and being out of 
fight of the fmoke too, they would not have eafily 
known what to make oiF it. Having knocked this 
fellow dowUi, the other who purfued him flopped, as 
if he had been frightened, and I advanced apace 
towards him ; but as I came nearer, I perceived pre- 
fently he had a bow and arrow, and was fitting it to 
ihoot at me ; fo I was then neceflltated to flioot at 
him firll ; which I did, and killed him at the firft 
{hot. The poor favage who fled, but had flopped, 
though he faw both his ensniies fallen, and killed 

(as 




wn ly ^/^lAan^ 



L ny/\i* i/ /^ ^He^Z/atu^ 



'^I^ul///h'i/ jipr/'l » ij^po fy-Ich^ >SVccfcda/e,'7it4:aiit/{v . 



258 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

recovered himfelf fo far as to fit up upon the gtound; 
and I perceived that my favage began to be afraid ; 
but when I faw that, I prefented my other piece at the 
man, as if I would (hoot him ; upon this my favage, 
for fo I call him now, made a motion to me to lend 
him my fword, which hung naked in a belt by my 
fide ; fo I did : he no fooner had it, but he runs to 
his enerny, and at one blow cut off his head fo cle- 
yerly, no executioner in Germany could have done 
it fooner or better ; which I thought it very ftrange 
for one, who, I had reafon to believe, never faw a 
fword in his life before, except their own wooden 
fwords ; however it feems, as I learned afterwards, 
they make their wooden fwords fo fliSirp, fo heavy, 
and the wood is fo hard, that they will cut off heads 
even with them, nay, and arms, and that at one blow 
too. When he had done this, he comes laughing 
to me in fign of triumph, and brought me the fword 
again, and, with abundance of geftures, which I did 
not underftand, laid it down, with the head of the 
favage that he had killed, juft before me. 

But that which aftonilhed him moft was, to know 
how I had killed the other Indian fo far off ; fo point- 
ing to him, he made figns to me' to let him go to him * 
fo I bade him go, as well as I could ; when he came 
to him, he flood like one amazed, looking at him; 
turned him firft on one fide, then on toother ; looked 
at the wound the bullet had made, which it feems 
was juft in his breaft, where it had made an hole, 
and no great quantity of blood had followed ; but he 
had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead : then he 
took up his bow and arrows, and came back ; fo I 
turned to go away, aud beckoned him to follow 

me? 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* 359 

me, making figns to him that more might come 
after theixii 

Upon this he figned to me, that he fhould bury 
them with fand, that they might not be feen by the 
reft, if they followed ; and fo I made figns again to 
him to do fo ; he fell to work, and in an inftant he 
had fcraped an hole in the fand with his hands, big 
enough to bury the firft in, and then dragged him 
into it, and covered him, and did fo alfo by the 
other ; I believe he had buried them both in a quar- 
ter of an hour ; then calling him away, I carried 
him not to my caftle, but quite away to my cave, on 
the farther part of the ifland ; fo I did not let my 
dream come to pafs in that part j viz. that he came 
into my grove for fhelter. 

Here I gave him bread, and a bunch of raifins to 
eat, and a draught of water, which I found he was 
indeed in great diftrefs for, by his running ; and 
having refrelhed him, I made figns for him to go lie 
down and fleep, pointing to a place where I had laid 
a great parcel of rice-ftraw, and a blanket upon it, 
which I ufed to fleep upon myfelf fometimes ; fo the 
poor creature lay down, and went to fleep. 

He was a comely handfome fellow, perfectly well 
made, with ftraight long* limbs, not too large, tall,- 
and well-fliaped, and, as I reckon, about twenty-fix 
years of age. He had a very good countenance, not 
a fierce and furly afpedt, but feemed to have fome- 
thing very manly in his face, and yet he had all the 
fweetnefs and foftnefs of an European in his couj;!- 
tenance too, efpecially when he fmiled : his hair was 
long and black, not curled like wool ; his forehead 
very high and large, and a great vivacity and 
S 2 fparkling 



cl6o life and adventures 

fparkling Hiarpnefs in his eyes. The colour of hi$ 
fkin was not quite black, but very tawny, and yet 
not of an ugly yellow naufeous tawny, as the Bra- 
JiHans and Virginians, and other natives of America 
are, but of a bright kind of a dun olive colour, that 
had in it fomething very agreeable, though not very 
eafy to defcribe. His face was round and plump, 
his nofe fmall, not flat like the negroes, a very good 
mouth, thin lips, and his teeth fine, well-fet, and 
white as ivory : after he had flumbered, rather than 
flept, about half an hour, he waked again, and comes 
out of the cave to me, for I had been milking my 
goats, which I had in the inclofure juft by: when 
he efpied me, he came running to me, laying himfelf 
down again upon the ground, with all the poflible 
figns of an humble thankful difpofition, making many 
antic geftures to fliew it. At laft he lays his head 
flat upon the ground, clofe to my foot, and fets my 
other fot . upon his head, as he had done before ; and 
after this, made all the figns to me of fubjeSion, 
fervitude, and fubmiflion imaginable, to let me know 
how much he would ferve me as long as he lived : 
I underfl:ood him in many things, and let him know 
I was very well pleafed with him ; in a little time I 
began to fpeak to him, and teach him to fpeak to 
me ; and firfl:, I made him know his name ffiould be 
Friday, which was the day I faved his lifej and I 
called him fo for the memory of the time ; I likewife 
taught him to fay maflier, and then let him know that 
was to be my name; I likewife taught him to fay 
Yes and No, and to know the meaning of them ; I 
gave him fome milk in an earthen pot, and let him 
fee me drink it before him, and fop my bread in it ; 

and 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 26I' 

and I gave him a cake of bread to do the like, which 
he quickly domplied with, and made figns that it 
was very good for him. 

I kept there with him all that night ; but as foon as 
it was day, I beckoned him to come with me, and 
let him know I wpuld give him fome clothes ; at which 
he feemed very glad, for he was ftark-naked. As 
we went by the place where he had buried the two 
men, he pointed exadlly to the fpot, and fhewed me 
the marks that he had made to find Ihem again, . mak^ 
ing figns to me that we fhould dig them up again, 
and eat them ; at this I appeared very angry, expreffed 
my abhorrence of it, made as if I would vomit at the 
thoughts of it, and beckoned with my hand to him 
to come away, which he did immediately, with great 
fubmiffion : I then led him up to the top of the hill, 
to fee if his enemies were gone, and pulling out my 
glafs, I looked, and faw plainly the place where they 
had been, but no appearance of them, or of their 
canoes ; fo that it was plain that they were gone, and 
had left their two comrades behind them, without any 
fearch after them. 

But I was not content with this difcovery ; but 
having now more courage, and confequently more 
curiofity, I tookmjmdin Fridays ithmc, giving him 
the fword in his hand, with the bow and arrows at 
his back, which I found he could ufe very dexte- 
roufly, making him carry one gun for me, and I two 
for myfelf, and away we marched to the place where ' 
thefe creatures had been ; for I had a mind now to 
get fome fuller intelligence of them : when I came to 
the place, my very blood ran chill in my veins, and 
jny heart funk within me at the horrgr of the fpeftacle : 

S 3 indeed 



^62 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

indeed it was a dreadful fight, at leaft it was fo to me, 
though Friday made nothing of it : the place was 
covered with human bones, the ground dyed with 
the blood, great pieces of flefh left here and there, 
half-eaten, mangled, and fcorched ; and, in fliort, 
all the tokens of the triumphant feaft they had been 
making there, after a victory over their enemies : I 
faw three fkulls, five hands, and the bones of three 
or four legs and feet, and abundance of other parts 
of the bodies ; and Friday^ by his figns, made me 
underftand that they brought over four prifoners to 
feaft upon ; that three of them were eaten up, and 
that he, pointing to himfelf, was the fourth ; that 
there had been a great battle between them and their 
next king, whofe fubjedls, it feems, he had been one 
of; and that they had taken a great number of pri- 
foners, all which were carried to feveral places by 
thofe that had taken them in the flight, in order to 
feaft upon them, as was done here by thefe wretches 
upon thofe they brought hither. 

I caufed Friday to gather all the flculls, bones, flefli, 
and whatever remained, and lay them together on 
an heap, and make a great fire upon it, and burn 
them all to aflies : I found Friday had ftill an hanker- 
ing ftomach after fome of the flefh, and was ftill a 
canibal in his nature ; but I difcovered fo much ab- 
horrence at the very thoughts of it, and at the leaft 
appearance of it, that he durft not difcover it ; for I 
had, by fome means, let him know, that I would 
kill him if he offered it. 

When we had done this, we came back to our 
caftle, and there I fell to work for my man Friday ; 
and firfl of all, \ gave him a pair of linen drawers, 

which 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 263 

which I had out bf the poor gunner's cheft I men- 
tioned, and which I found in the wreck; and 
which, with a little alteration, fitted him very 
well ; then I made hiip a jerkin of goat's fkin as 
well as my Ikill would allow, and I was now grown 
a tolerable good taylor ; and I gave him a cap, which 
I had made of an hare fkin, very convenient, and 
fafliipnable enough : and thus he was drefTed, for 
the prefent, tolerably well, and mighty well was he 
pleafed to fee himfelf almoft as well clothed as his maf- 
ter : it is true, he went awkwardly in thefe things at 
firfl ; wearing the drawers was very awkward to him, 
and the fleeves of the waiflcoat galled his fhoulders 
and the infide of his arms ; but a little eafing them, 
where he complained they hurt him, and ufmg him- 
felf to them, at length he took to them very well. 

The next day after I came home to my hutch with 
him, I began to confider where I fhould lodge him j 
and that I might do well for him, and yet be perleftly 
eafy myfelf, I made a little tent for him in the vacant 
place between my two fortifications, in the infide of 
the laft, and in the outfide of the firfl : and as there 
was a door or entrance there into my cave, I made a 
formal framed door-cafe, and a door to it of boards, 
and fet it up in the pafTage, a little within the entrance; 
and caufing the door to open on the infide, I barred 
it up in the night, taking in my ladders too ; fo that 
Friday could no way come at me in the infide of my 
innermofl wall, without making fo much noife in 
getting over, that it mufl needs awaken me; for my 
lirfl wall had now a complete roof over it of long 
poles, covering all my tent, and leaning up to the 
fide of the hill, which was ag^iin laid crofs with fmall 

S 4 flicks 



264 ^^^^ -^^^ ADVENTURES 

flicks inflead of laths, and then thatched over a great 
thicknefs vvith the rice-ilraw, which was ftrong like 
reeds ; zipA at the hole or place which was left to go 
in or cut by the ladder, I had placed a kind of trap- 
door, wliich if it had been attempted on the out- 
fide, would not have opened at all, but would have 
fallen down, and made a great noife; and as to wea- 
pons, I took them all in to my fide every night. 

But I needed none of all this precaution ; for never 
man had a more f?ithful, losing, (incere fervant than 
Friday was to me ; TNithout paffions, fuUennefs, or 
defigns ; perfecily obliging and engaging ; his very 
aSedions were tied to me, like thofe of a child to a 
father ; and I dare fay, he would have facrificed bis 
life for the faving mine, upon any occafion whatfo- 
ever : the many teftimonies he gave me of this put 
it out of doubt; and foon convinced me, that I 
needed to ufe no precautions as to my fafety on his 
account. 

This frequently gave me occafion to obferve, and 
that with wonder, that, however it had pleafed God 
in his providence, and in the government of the 
works of his hands, to take from fo great a part of 
the world of his creatures the bell ufes to which 
their faculties, and the powers of their fouls, are 
adapted ; yet that he has beftowed upon them the 
fame powers, the fame r^afon, the fame affeftions, 
the fame fentiments of kin^nefs and obligation, th^ 
fame paffions and refentments of wrongs, the fame 
fenfe of gratitude, fincerity, fidelity, and all the 
capacities of doing good, and receiving good, that 
he has given to us ; and that when he pleafes to offer 
them occafions of exerting thefe, they are as ready, 

nay. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 26^ 

nay, more ready to apply them to the right ufes for 
which they were beftowed, than we are. And this 
made me very melancholy fometimes, in reflefting, 
as the feveral occafions prefented, how mean an ufe 
we make of all thefe, even though we have thefe 
powers enlightened by the great lamp of inftruftion, 
the fpirit of God, and by the knowledge of his word, 
added to our underftanding ; and why it has pleafed 
God to hide the like faving knowledge from fo many 
millions of fouls, who, if I might judge by this poor 
favage, would make a much better ufe • of it than we 
did. 

From hence I fometimes was led too far to invade 
the fovereignty of Providence ; and, as it were, 
arraign the juftice of fo arbitrary a difpofition of 
things, that fliould hide that light from fome, and 
reveal it to others, and yet expe£t a like duty from 
both : but I Ihut it up, and checked my thoughts 
with this conclufion : Firft, that we do not know by 
what light and law thefe fhould be condemned ; but 
that as God was neceffarily, and by ' the nature of 
his being, infinitely holy and juft, fo it cpuld not be, 
but that if thefe creatures were all fentenced to ab- 
fence from himfelf, it was on account of finning 
againft that light, which, as the Scripture fays, was 
a law to themfelves, and by fuch rules as their con-^ 
fciences would acknowledge to be juft, though the 
foundation was not difcovered to us : and, fecondly, 
that ftill, as we are all clay in the hand of the potter, 
no veffel could fay to him. Why haft thou formed 
me thus ? 

But to return to my new companion : I was greatly 
delighted with him, and made it my bufinfs to teach 

him 



a66 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

him every thing that was proper to make him ufeful, 
handy, and helpful ; but efpecially to make him 
fpeak, and underftand me when I fpake : and he 
was the aptefl fcholar that ever was ; and partictr- 
larly was fo merry, fo conftantly diligent, and fo 
pleafed when he could but underftand me, or make 
me underftand him, that it was very pleafant to me 
to talk to him y and now my life begaji to be fo eafy, 
that I began to fay to myfelf, that could I but have 
been fafe from more favages, I cared not if I was 
never to remove from the place while I lived. 

After I had been two or three days returned to my 
caftle, I thought that, in order to bring Friday off 
from his horrid way cf feeding, and from the relifii 
of a canibal's ftomach, I ought to let him tafte other 
flefli ; fo I took him out with me one morning to the 
woods : I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out 
of my own flock, and bring it home and drefs it : 
but as I was going, I faw a flie-goat lying down in 
the (hade, and two young kids fitting by her: I 
catched hold of Friday , Hold, faid I, ftand ftill ; and 
made figns to him not to ftir ; immediately I pre- 
fented my piece, fhot and killed one of the kids. The 
poor creature, who had, at a diftance indeed, feen me 
kill the favage his enemy, but did not know, or 
could imagine how it was done, was fenfibly fur- 
prifed, trembled and fliook, and looked fo amazed^ 
that I thought he would have funk down : he did not 
fee the kid I had fliot at, or perceive I had killed it^ 
but ripped up his waiftcoat to feel if he was not 
wounded ; and, as I found, prefently thought I was 
refolved to kill him ; for he came and laieeled down 
to me, and, embracing my knees, faid a great many 

things 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 267 

tVmgs I did not underftand j but I could eafily fee 
that his meaning was to pray me not to kill him. 

I foon found a way to convince him, that I would 
do him no harm ; and taking him up by the hand, 
laughed at him, and pointing to the kid' which I had 
killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he 
did ; and while he was wondering and looking to fee 
how the creature was killed, I loaded my gun again, 
and by and bye I faw a great fowl, like an hawk, fit 
upon a tree within Ihot ; fo, to let Friday underftand 
a little what I would do, I called him to me again, 
pointing at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, 
though I thought it had been an hawk ; I fay, point- 
ing to the parrot, and to my gun, and to the ground 
under the parrot, to let him fee I would make him 
fall, I made him underftand that I would fhoot and 
kill that bird ; accordingly I jfired, and bid him look, 
and immediately he faw the parrot fall: he ftood 
like one frighted again, notwithftanding all that 
I had faid to him ; and I found he was the more 
amazed, becaufe he did n^ot fee me put any thing 
into the gun ; but thought there muft be fome won- 
derful fund of death and deftruftion in that thing, 
able to kill man, beaft, bird, or any thing near or 
far off; for the aftonifhment this created in him 
was fuch, as could not wear off for a long time ; and 
I believe, if I WQuld have let him, he would have 
worfliipped me and my gun : as for the gun itfelf, he 
would not fo much as touch it for feveral days after ; 
but would fpeak to it, and talk to it, as if it had an- 
fwered him, when he was by himfelf ; which, as I 
afterwards learned of him, was to defire it not to 
JdU bim. 

Well: 



268 I'IFE AND ADVENTURES 

Well : after his aftonifhment was a little over at 
this, I pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had 
fliot, which he did, but (laid fome time ; for the 
parrot, not being quite dead, had fluttered a good 
way off from the place where (he fell ; however he 
found her, took her up, and brought her to me; 
and, as I had perceived his ignorance about the gun 
before, I took this advantage to charge the gun again, 
and not let him fee me do it, that I might be ready 
for any other mark that might prefent ; but nothing 
more offered at that time ; fo I brought home the 
kid ; and the fame evening I took the fkin off, and 
jcnt it out as well as I could, and having a pot for 
that purpofe, I boiled or ftewed fome of the flefh, 
and made fome very good broth ; after I had be- 
gun to eat fome, I gave fome to my man, who 
feemed very glad of it, and liked it very well ; but 
that which was ftrangeft to him, was, to fee me eat 
fait with it. He made a fign to me that the fait 
was not good to eat; and putting a little into his own 
mouth, he feemed to naufeate it, and would fpit and 
fputter at it, wafhing his mouth with freCi water 
after it ; on the other hand, I took fom^ meat in my 
mcuth without fait, and I pretended to fpit and fput* 
ter for want of fait, as fafl as he had done at the fait ; 
but it would not do, he would never care for fait 
with meat, or in his broth ; at lend, not a great 
while, and then but a very little. 

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, 
I was refolved to feaft him the next day with roafling 
a piece of the kid : this I did by hanging it before 
the fire in a firing, as 1 had feen many people do in 
England^ fetting two poles up, one on each fide the 

fire. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* HSg 

fire, and one crofs on the top, and tying the firing 
to the crofs ftick, letting the meat turn -continually : 
this Friday admired very much ; but when he came to 
tafte the flefh, he took fo many ways to tell me how 
well he liked it, that I could not but underftand 
him ; and at laft he told me he would never eat man's 
flefh any more, which I was very glad to hear. 

The next day I fet him to work to beating fome 
corn out, and fifting it in the manner I ufed to do, as 
I obferved before ; and he foon underflood how to do 
it as well as I, efpecially after he had feen what the 
meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of ; 
for after that I let him fee me make my bread, and 
bake it too ; and in a little time Friday was able to 
do all the work for me, as well as I could do it 
myfelf. 

I began now to confider, that having two mouths 
to feed inflead of one, I mufl provide more ground 
for fny harvefl, and plant a larger quantity of corn, 
than I ufed to do ; fo 1 marked out a larger piece of 
land, and began the fence in the fame manner as be- 
fore, in which Friday not only worked very willingly, 
and very hard, but did it very cheerfully j and I told 
him what it was for, that it was for corn to make 
more bread, becaufe he was now with me, and that I 
might have enough for him and myfelf too : he ap- 
peared very fenfible of that part, and let me know, 
that he thought I had much more labour upon me on 
his account, than I had for myfelf, and that he 
would work the harder for me, if I would tell him 
what to do. 

This was the pleafanteft year of all the life I led in 
this place : Friday began to talk pretty well, and 

underftand 



' 270 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

underfland the names of almoll every thing I had 
occafion to call for, and of every place I had to fend 
him to, and talk a great deal to me ; fo that, in 
fhort, I began now to have fome ufe for my tongue 
again, which indeed I had very little occafion for be- 
/ore ; that is to fay, about fpeech : befides the plea- 
furc of talking to him, I had a fmgular fatisfadionin 
the fellow hinifelf ; his fimple unfeigned honefty ap- 
peared to me more and more every day, and I began 
really to love the creature ; and on his fide, I believe 
he loved me more than it is was poffible for him ever 
to love any thing before. 

I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering 
inclination to his own country again ; and having 
learned him Englijh fo well, that he could anfwer me 
almofl: any queftions, I aflced him, whether the na- 
tion that he belonged to never conquered in battle ? 
At which he fmiled, and faid. Yes, yes, we always 
fight the better ; that is, he meant, always get the 
better in fight 5 and fo we began the following dif- 
courfe. You always fight the better ! faid I : How 
come you to be taken prifonef then, Friday? 

Friday. My nation beat much for all that. 

Majier. How beat ; if your nation beat them, 
how came you to be taken ? 

Friday. They more than my nation in the place 
where me was j they take one, two, three, and me : 
My nation over-beat them in the yonder place, where 
me no was ; there my nation take one, two great 
thoufand. 

Majier. But why did not your fide recover you 
from the hands of your enemies then ? 

Fridq^ 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 27I* 

Friday* They run one, two, three, and me, arid 
make go in the canoe j my nation have no canoe 
that time. 

Majier. Well, Friday^ and what does your nation 
do with the men they take ? Do they carry them 
away, and eat them as thefe did ? 

Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat ail up, 

Majier. Where do they carry them ? 

Friday. Go to other place where they think. 

Majier. Do tl^y come hither ? 

Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither ; come other 
elfe place. 

Majier. Have you been here with them ? 

Friday. Yes, I been here [points to the N. W. 
fide of the ifland, which, it feems, was their fidej. 

By this I underftood, that my man Friday had 
formerly been among th^ favages, who ufed to come 
on fliore on the farther part of the ifland, on the faid 
man-eating occafions that he was now brought for j 
and fome time after, when I took the courage to carry 
him to that fide, being the fame I formerly men- 
tioned, he prefently knew the place, and told me, he 
was there once when they eat up twenty men, two 
women, and one child : he could not tell twenty in 
Englijh^ but he numbered them by laying fo many 
ftones in a row, and pointing to me to tell them over. 

I^have told this paflage, becaufe it introduces 
what follows ; that after I had had this difcourfe 
with him, I afked him. How far it was from our 
ifland to the fliore, and whether the canoes were not 
often lofl;? He told me there was no danger, no 
canoes ever lofl: j but that after a little way out to 

fea. 



#272 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

fea, there was a current, and a wind always one way 
in the morning, the other in the afternoon. 

This I underftand to be no more than the fets of 
the tide, as going out, or coming in ; but I aft - 
wards underftood it was occafioned by the great 
draught and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoque; 
in the mouth of which river, as I thought afterwards, 
our ifland lay ; and that this land, which I perceived 
to the W. and N. W. v/as the great ifland Trinidad^ 
on the north point of the mouth of the river : I aflced 
Friday a thoufand quefl:ions about the country, the 
inhabitants, the fea, the coafl:, and v/hat nations 
were near ; he told me all he knew with the greateft 
opennefs imaginable ; I aflced him the names of the 
feveral nations of his fort of people, but could get no 
other name than Caribs ; from whence I eafily under- 
ftood, that thefe were the Caribees^ which our maps 
place on that part of America which reaches from the 
mouth of the river Oroonoque to Gumea, and onwards 
to St. Martha : he told me, that up a great way be- 
. yond the moon, that was, beyond the fetting of the 
moon, which mufl: be W. from- their country, there 
dwelt white bearded men, like me, and pointed to 
my great whifl^ers, which I mentioned before 5 and 
that they had killed much mans, that was his word : 
by which I underftood he meant the Spaniards^ whofe 
cruelties in America had been fpread over the whole 
countries, and were remembered by ail the nations 
from father to fon. 

I enquired if he could tell me how I might come 
from this ifland, aild get among thofe white men; 
he told me. Yes, yes, I might go in two canoe ; I 

could 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* 273 

Could not underftand what he meant by two canoe ; 
till at laft, with great difficulty, I found he meant, 
that it mufl be in a large great boat as big as two 
eanoes* 

This part oi Friday* s difcourfe began to relifh with 
me very well ; and from this time I entertained fome 
hopes, that one time or other I might find an opportu- 
nity to make my efcape from this place, and that this 
poor favage might be a means to help me to do it. 

During the long time that Friday had now been 
with me, and that he began to fpeak to me, and un- 
derftand me, I was not wanting to lay a foundation 
of religious knowledge in his mind ; particularly, I 
alked him one time. Who made hiiji ? The poor crea- 
ture did not underftand me at all, but thought I had 
alked who was his father : but I took it by another 
handle, and afked him. Who made the fea, the ground 
he walked on, and the hills and woods? He told 
me, it was one old Benamuckee that lived beyond all: 
he could defcribe nothing of this great perfon, but 
that he was very old ; much older, he faid, than the 
fea or the land, than the moon or* the ftars. I alked 
him then, if this old perfon had made all things, why 
did not all things worlhip him ? He looked very grave, 
and with a perfefl: look of innocence faid, all things 
faid O ! to him : I afked him, if the people who die 
in his country, went away any- where ? He faid. Yes, 
they all went to Benamuckee. Then I afked him, whe- 
ther thofe they eat up went thither too ? he faid. Yes. 
From thefe things I began to inftrufl: him in the 
knowledge of the true God. I told him, that the 
great Maker of all things lived there, pointing up to- 
wards heaven : that he governs the world by the fame 
Vol. I. T power 



174 ^IPE AND ADVENTURES 

power and providence by which he made it ; that he 
was omnipotent, could do every thing for us, give 
every thing to us, take every thing from us ; and 
thus, by degrees, I opened his eyes. He liftened 
with great attention, and received with pleafure the 
notion of Jesus Christ being fent to redeem us, and 
of the manner of making our prayers to God, and 
his being able to hear us, even into heaven : he told 
me one day, that if our God could hear us up be- 
yond the fun, he muft needs be a greater God than 
their Benamuckee^ who lived but a little way off, and 
yet could not hear, till they went up to the great 
mountains, where he dwelt, to fpeak to him. I 
alked him. If ever he went thither to fpeak to him ? 
He faid. No, they never went that were young men; 
none went thither but the old men ; whom he called 
their Oowookakee, that is, as I made him explain it 
to me, their religious, or clergy ; and that they went 
to fay O ! (fo he called faying prayers) and then came 
back, and told them what Benamuckee faid : by this 
I obferved, that there is prieftcraft even amongft the 
moft blinded ignorant Pagans in the world ; and the 
policy of making a fecret religion, in order to pre- 
ferve the veneration of the people to the clergy, is not 
only to be found in the Roman, but perhaps among 
all religions in the world, even among the moft bru- 
tifh and barbarous favages. 

I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man 
Friday ; and told him, that the pretence of their old 
men going up to the mountains to fay O ! to their god 
Benamuckee^ was a cheat ; and their bringing word 
from thence what he faid, was much more fo ; that 
if they met with any anfwer, or fpoke with any one 

there, 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 27^ 

there, it muft be with an evil fpirit : and then I en- 
tered into a long difcourfe with him about the devil, 
the original of him, his rebellion againft God, his 
enmity to man, the reafon of it, his fetting himfelf 
up in the dark parts of the world to be worlhipped 
inftead of God, and as God, and the many ftrata- 
gems^ he made ufe of, to delude mankind to their 
tuin ; how he had a fecret accefs to our paffions, and 
to our affedions, to adapt his fnares fo to our inclina- 
tions, as to caufe us even to be our own tempters, and 
to run upon our own deftrudion by our own choice. 

I found it was not fo eafy to imprint right notions 
in his mind about the devil, as it was about the being 
of a God : nature affifted all my arguments to evi- 
dence to him even the neceflity of a great firft caufe> 
and over-ruling governing power, a fecret direfting 
Providence, and of the equity and juftice of paying 
homage to him that made us, and the like : but there 
appeared nothing of all this in the notion of an evil 
fpirit, of his original, his being, his nature, and 
above all, of his inclination to do evil, and to draw 
us in to do fo too : and the poor creature puzzled me 
once in fuch a manner, by a queftion merely natural 
and innocent, that I fcarce laiew what to fay to him, 
I had been talking a great deal to him of the power of 
God, his omnipotence, his dreadful averfion to fm, 
his being a confuming fire to the workers of iniquity ; 
how, as he had n^ade us all, he could deftroy us, 
and all the world, in a moment ; and he liftened 
with great ferioufnefs to me all the while. 

After this, I had been telling him how the devil 
was God's enemy in the hearts of men, and ufed all 
his malice and {kill to defeat the good defigns of Pro- 

T 2 vidence. 



2/6 .LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

vidence, and to ruin the kingdom of Christ in the 
world, and the like: Well, fays Friday^ but you 
fay God is fo ftrong, fo great, is he not much 
ftrong, much might, as the devil ? Yes, yes, faid 
I, Friday^ God is ftronger than the devil, God is 
above the devil, and therefore V7e pray to God to 
tread him under our feet, and enable us to refift his 
temptations, and quench his fiery darts. But, fays 
he again, if God much ftrong, much might, as the 
devil, why God not kill the devil, fo make him no 
more wicked ? 

I was ftrangely furprifed at his queftion ; and after 
all, though I was now an old man, yet I was but a 
young doftor, and ill enough qualified for a cafuift, 
or a folver of difficulties : and, at firft, I could not 
tell what to fay ; fo I pretended not to hear him, and 
alked him what he faid ? but he was too ^arneft for 
an anfwer to forget his queftion ; fo that he repeated 
it in the very fame broken words, as above. By this 
time I had recovered myfelf a little, and I faid, God 
will at laft punifli him feverely ; he is referved for the 
judgment, and is to be caft into the bottomlefs pit, 
to dwell with everlafting fire : this did not fatisfy 
Friday ; but he returns upoii me, repeating my words, 
Referve at laft ! me no underftand : but why not kill 
the devil now, not kill great ago ? You may as well 
afk me, faid I, why God does^not kill you and me, 
when we do wicked things here that offend him : we 
are preferved to repent and be pardoned. He mufes 
a while at this ; Well, well, fays he, mighty affec- 
tionately, that well ; fo you, I, devil, all wicked, all 
preferve, repent, God pardon all. Here I was run 
down again by him to the laft degree, and it was a 

teftimony 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 277 

teftimony to me, how the mere notions of nature, 
though they will guide reafonable creatures to the 
knowledge of a God, and of a worfhip or homage 
due to the fupreme being of God, as the confequence 
of our nature ; yet nothing but divine revelation can 
form the knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of a re- 
demption purchafed for us; of ^, Mediator ; of a new 
covenant; and of an Interceffor at the footftool of 
God's throne ; I fay, nothing but a revelation from 
Heaven can form thefe in the foul ; and that there- 
fore the Gofpel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus 
Christ, I mean the word of God, and the Spirit of 
God, promifed for the guide and fanftifier of his 
people, are the abfolutely neceffary inftrudtors of the 
fouls of men in the faving knowledge of Qod, and the 
means of falvation^ 

I therefore diverted the prefent difeourfe between 
me and my man, rifing up haftily, as upon fome 
fudden occafion of going out ; then fending him for 
fomething a great way. off, I ferioufly prayed to God, 
that he would enable me to inftruQ: favingly this poor 
favage, afEfting, by his Spirit, the heart of the poor 
ignorant creature to receive the light of the knowledge 
of God in Christ, reconciling him to himfelf, and 
would guide me to fpeak fo to him from the word of 
God, as his confcience might be convinced, his eyes 
opened, and his foul laved : when he came again to 
me, I entered into a long difeourfe with him upon 
the fubjefl: of the redemption of man by the Saviour 
of the world, and of the doctrine of the gofpel 
preached from Heaven, viz. of the repentance towards 
God, and faith in our bleffed Lord Jesus : I then 
T 3 explained 



278 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

explained to him, as well as I could, why our bleffed 
Redeemer took not on him the nature of angels, but 
the feed of Abraham^ and how, for that reafon, the 
fallen angels had no Ihare in the redemption ; that he 
came only to the loft fheep of the houfe of Ifrael^ and 
the like. 

I hadj God knows, more fmcerity than knowledge, 
in all the methods I took for this poor creature's in- 
ftrudtion ; and muft acknowledge, what I believe all 
that aft upon the fame principle will find, that in lay. 
ing things open to him, I really informed and in- 
ftrufted myfelf in many things that either I did not 
know, or had not fully confidered before; but which 
occurred naturally to my mind, upon my fearching 
into them for the information of this poor favage ; 
and I had more affeftion in my enquiry after things 
upon this occafion, than ever I felt before ; fo that 
whether this poor wild wretch was the better for me 
or no, I had great reafon to be thankful that ever he 
came to me : my grief fat lighter upon me, my ha^ 
bitation grew comfortable to me beyond meafure; 
and when I reflefted, that in this folitary life, which I 
had been confined to, I had not only been moved my- 
felf to look up to Heaven, and to feek to the hand 
that brought me thither, but was now to be made an 
inftrument, under Providence, to fave the life, and 
for aught I know the foul of a poor favage, and 
bring him to the true knowledge of religion, and of 
the Chriftian doftrine, that he might know Christ 
Jesus, to know whom is life eternal ; I fay, when I 
refledted upon all thefe things, a fecret joy ran through 
every part of my foul, and I frequently rejoiced 

that 



OF R03mS0N CRUSOE. 279 

that Bver I was brought to this place, which I had 
often thought the moft dreadful of all affliftions that 
could poflibly have befallen me. 

In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder 
of my time, and the converfation which employed the 
hours between Friday and me was fuch, as made the 
three years which we lived there together perfedtly 
and completely happy, if any fuch thing as complete 
happinefs can be found in a fublunary (late : the fa- 
vage was now a good Chriftian, a much better than 
I ; though I have reafon to hope, and blefs God for 
it, that we were equally penitent, and comforted re- 
ftored penitents : we had here the Word of God to 
read, and no farther off from his Spirit to inftruft than 
if we had been in England. 

I always applied myfelf to reading the Scripture, and 
to let him know, as well as I could, the meaning of 
what I read ; and he again, by his ferious enquiries 
and queftions, made me, as I faid before, a much 
better fcholar in the Scripture knowledge, than I fhould 
ever have been by my own private reading : another 
thing I cannot refrain from obf^rving here alfo from 
experience, in this retired part of my life ; viz. how 
infinite and inexpreffible a bleffing it is, that the 
knowledge of God, and of the doftrine of falvation 
by Christ Jesus, is fo plainly laid down in the 
Word of God, fo eafy to be received and undejftood^ 
that as the bare reading the Scripture made me capable 
of underftanding enough of my duty to carry me di- 
reftly on to the great work of fincere repentance for 
my fins, and laying hold of a Saviour for life and 
falvation, to a ftated reformation in pradlice, and 
obedience to all God*s commands, and this without 
T 4 any 



iSo LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

any teacher or inftruftor (I mean, human) fo tho 
plain inftruftion fufficiently ferved to the enlightening 
this favage creature, and bringing him to be fuch 
a Chriftian, as I have known few equal to him in 
my life. 

As to the difputes, wranglings, ftrife, and conten, 
lion, which has happened in the world about religion, 
whether niceties in doftrines, or Tchemes of church 
government, they were all perfeftly ufelefs to us, as^ 
for aught I can yet fee, they have been to all the reft 
in the world : we had the fure guide to heaven, viz, 
the Word of God ; and we had, bleffed be God! 
comfortable views of the Spirit of God, teaching and 
inftrucling us by his Word, leading us into all truth, 
and making us both willing and obedient to the in- 
ftruftion of his word ; and I cannot fee the leaft ufe 
that the greateft knowledge of the difputed points in 
religion, which have made fuch confufions in the 
world, would have been to us, if we could have ob- 
tained it : but I muft go on with the hiftorical part 
of things, and take every part in its order. 

After Friday and I became more intimately ac- 
quainted, and that he could underftand almoft all I 
faid to him, and fpeak fluently, though in broken 
Englijh^ to me, I acquainted him with my own ftory, 
or at leaft fo much of it as related to my coming into 
the place, how I had lived there, and hpw long : I 
let him into the myftery (for fuch it was to him) of 
gunpowder and bullets, and taught him how to fhoot : 
I gave him a knife, which he was wonderfully de- 
lighted with ; and I made him a belt with a frog 
hanging to it, fuch as m England v^e wear hangers in; 
and in the frog, inftead of an hanger, I gave him 

an 



OF ROBINSON CJIUSOE, ^8T 

an hatchet, which was not only as good a weapon 
in fome cafes, but much more ufeful upon many 
occafions. 

I defcribed to him the countries of Europe^ and 
particularly England^ which I came from ; how we 
lived, how we worftiipped GoJO, how we behaved to 
one another, and how we traded in fliips to all the 
parts of the world : I gave him an account of the 
•wreck which I had been on board of, and fliewed 
him, as near as I could, the place where Ihe lay ; but 
flie was all beaten in pieces long before, and quite 
gone. 

I fhewed him the ruins of our boat, which we loft 
'when we efcaped, and which I could not ftir with my 
whole ftrength then; but was now fallen almoft all to 
pieces : upon feeing this boat, Friday ftood mufing a 
great while, and faid nothing ; I alked him what it 
was he ftudied upon ? At laft, fays he. Me fee fuch 
boat like come to place at my nation. 

I did not underftand him a gqod while; but at laft, 
when I had examined further into it, I undei^ftood by 
Jiim, that a boat, fuch as that had been, came on 
Ihore upon the country where he lived ; that is, as 
he explained it, was driven thither by ftrefs of wea- 
ther : I prefently imagined, that fome European ftiip 
muft have been caft away upon their coaft, and the 
boat might get loofe, and drive afliore ; but was fo 
dull, that I never once thought of men making 
efcape from a wreck thither, much lefs whence they 
might come ; fo I only enquired after a defcription of 
the boat. 

Friday defcribed the boat to me well enough ; but 
brought me better to underftand him, when he added, 

with 



282 l-IFE AND ADVENTURES 

with fome warmth, We fave the white mans from 
drown : then I prefently alked him, if there were any 
white mans, as he called them, in the boat ? Yes, he 
faid, the boat full of white mans : I afked him, how 
many ? he told upon his fingers feventeen : I afked 
him then, what became of them ? he told me. They 
live, they dwell at my nation. 

This put new thoughts into my head again ; fori 
prefently imagined, that thefe might be the men be- 
longing to the fliip that was caft away in fight of my 
ifland, as I now call it; and who, after the (hip was 
ftruck on the rock, and they faw her inevitably 
loft, had faved themfelves in their boat, and 
were landed upon that wild fhore among the fa^ 
vages. 

Upon this r enquired of him more critically, what 
was become of them ? He affured me they lived ftill 
there, that they had been there about four years, that 
the favages let them alone, and gave them viftuals to 
live. I afked him, how it came to pafs they did not 
kill them, and eat them ? he faid. No, they make 
brother with them : that is, as I underftood him, a 
truce : and then he added. They eat no mans but 
when make the war fight : that is to fay, they never 
eat any men, but fuch as come to fight with them, 
and are takeii in battle. 

It was after this, fome conuderable time, that being 
on the top of the hill, at the eaft fide of the ifland, 
from whence, as I have faid, I had in a clear day 
difcovered the main or continent of America ; Friday^ 
the weather being very ferene, looks very earneftly 
towards the main land, and in a kind of furprize falls 
a jumping and dancing, and calls ouc to me, for I was 

at 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, -283 

at fome difcance from him : I alked him what was the 
matter ? O joy ! fays he, O glad ! there fee my 
country, there my nation ! 

I obferved an extraordinary fenfe of pleafure ap- 
peared in his face, and his eyes fparkled, and his 
countenance difcovered a flrange eagernefs, as if he 
had a mind to be in his own country again j and this 
obfervation of mine put a great many thoughts into 
me ; which made me at firfl not fo eafy about my 
new man Friday as I was before ; and I made no 
doubt, but that if Friday conlA get back to his own 
nation again, he would not only forget all his reli- 
gion, but all his obligations to me ; and would be 
forward enough to give his countrymen an account 
of me, ;and come back, perhaps, with an hundred or 
two of them, and make a feaft upon me, at which he 
might be as merry as he ufed to be with thofe of his 
enemies, when they were taken in war. 

But I wronged the poor honeft cieature very much, 
for which I was very forry afterwards : however, as 
my jealoufy increafed, and held me fome weeks, I was 
a little more circumfpecl:, and not fo familiar and 
kind to him as before ; in which I was certainly in 
the wrong too, the honeft grateful creature having 
no thought about it, but what confifted of the beft 
principles, both as a religious Chriftian, and as a 
grateful friend, as appeared afterwards to my full 
fatisfadion. 

Whilft my jealoufy of him lafted, you may be fure 

. I was every day pumping him, to fee if he would dif- 

cover any of the new thoughts which I fufpefted 

were in him; but I found every thing he faid was fo 

honeft, and fo innocent, that I could find nothing to 

' ' nourifh 



284 ^IfE AND ADVENTURES 

nourifh my fufpicion ; and, in fpite of all my ufti 
eafinefs, he made me at laft entirely his own again ; 
nor did he in the leaft perceive that I was uneafy j 
and therefore t could not fufped him of deceit. 

One day, walking up the fame hill, but the wea- 
ther being hazy at fea, fo that we could not fee the 
continent, I called to him, and faid, Friday^ do not 
you wifli yourfelf in your own country, your own 
nation ? Yes, he faid, I be much O glad to be at my 
own nation. What would you do there ? faid I : 
would you turn wild again, eat men's flefli again, and 
be a favage as you were before ? He looked full of 
concern,^ and fhaking his head, faid. No, no, Friday 
tell them to live good, tell them to pray God, tell 
them to eat corn-bread, cattle-flefh, milk, no eat man 
again. Why then, faid I to him, they will kill you. 
He looked grave at that, and. then faid. No, they no 
kill me, they willing love learn : he meant by this, 
they would be willing to learn. He added, they 
learned much of the bearded mans that came in the 
boat. Then I afked him, if he would go back to them ? 
He fmiled at that, and told me he could not fwimTa 
far. I told him I would make a canoe for him. He 
told me he would go, if I would go with him. I go! 
faid I, why they will eat me if I come the^pe. No, no, 
fays he, me make them no eat you, me make they 
much love, you ; he meant he would tell them how I 
had killed his enemies and faved his life, and fo he 
would make them love me. Then he told me, as well 
as he could, how kind they were to feventeen white 
men, or bearded men, as he called them, who came 
on fliore in diftrefs. 

From 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 285 

From this time, I confefs, I had a mind to ven- 
ture over, and fee if I could poffibly join with thefe 
bearded men, who, I made no doubt, were Spaniards, 
or Portuguefe ; not doubting but, if I could, we might 
find fome method to efcape from thence, being upon 
the continent, and a good company together, better 
than I could from an ifland forty miles oft' the fhore, 
and alone without help. So, after fome days, I took 
Friday to work again, by way of difcourfe; and 
told him, I would give him a boat to go back to 
his own nation j and accordingly I carried him to 
my frigate, which lay on the other fide of the ifland; 
and having cleared it of water (for I always kept it 
funk in the water), I brought it out, fliewed it him, 
and we both went into it. 

I found he was a moft dexterous fellow at n^anaging 
it, would make it go almoft as fwift and faft again as I 
could ; fo when he was in, I faid to him. Well, now 
Friday^ fhall we go to your nation? He looked very 
dull at my faying fo, which, it feems, was becaufe he 
thought the boat too fmall to go fo far. I told him 
then I had a bigger ; fo the next day I went to the 
place where the firft boat lay which I had made, but 
which I could not get into the water ; he faid that 
was big enough ; but then, as I had taken no care 
of it, and it had Iain two or three and twenty years 
there, the fun had fplit and dryed it, that it was 
in a manner rotten. Friday told me, fuch a boat 
would do very well, and would carry * much 
* enough vittle, drink, bread,* that was his way of 
talking. 

Upon the whole, I was by this time fo fixed upon 
my defign of going over with with him to the con- 

tinent. 



^86 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

tinent, that I told him v/e would go and make one 
as big as that, and he fhould go home in it. He 
anfwered not one word, but looked very grave and 
fad. I alked him, what was the matter with him? 
He alked me again thus, Why you angry mad with 
Friday? what me done? I afked him, what he meant J 
I told him I was not angry with him at all: jxo angry} 
no angry! fays he, repeating the words feveral time&i 
Why fend Friday home away to jny nation? Why^ 
laid I, Friday^ did you not fay you wifhed you wei*. 
there? Yes, yes, fays he, wifh be both thei-e ; n^ '• 
wifh Friday there, no mafter there. In a word, \ik/ 
would not think of going there without me. I g(^f 
there, Friday! faid I, what fhould I do there? He 
turned very quick upon me at thisj You do great 
deal much good, fays he, you teach wild mans be 
good, fober, tame mans ; you tell them know GpDy 
pray God, and live new life. Alas, fr/Vfoy, faid I, 
thou knoweft not what thou fayed; lam but ah ig- 
norant man myfelf. Yes, yes, fays he, you teechee 
me good, you teechee them good. No, no, Friday^ 
faid I, you fliall go without me; leave me here to 
live by myfelf, as I did before. He looked confufed 
again at that word, and running to one of the hat- 
chets which he ufed to wear, he takes it up haftily? 
and gives it me. What muft I do with this? faid I 
to him : you take kill Friday^ fays he. What muft I 
kill you for ? faid I again. He returns very quick, 
What you fend Friday away for ? Take kill Friday y 
no fend Friday away. This he fpoke fo eameftly, 
that I faw tears ftand in his eyes. In a word, I fo 
plainly difcovered the utmoft affeftion in him to me, 
and a firm refolution in him, that I told him then, 

and 




^nUi^M 6u t^fetAarU . 



•> 



%ra.:/ /z, , //r. //.,,,. Y . 



/>,/////../ tf^.ir(o..j^jv /,//w it.-.U.,/,- '/i.:,u/f//j . 



T-f^ i'EV,' YC?A 






OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 287 

and often after, that I would never fend him away 
from me, if he was willing to flay with me. 

Upon the whole, as I found by all his difcourfe a 
fettled affedtion to me, and that nothing fhould part 
him from me, fo I found all the foundation of his 
defire to go to his own country was laid in. his ar- 
dent afieclion to the people, and his hopes of my do- 
ing them good ; a thing, which as I had no notion 
of myfelf, fo I had not thelcaft thought, or intention, 
or defire of undertaking it : but ftill I found a ftrong 
inclination to my attempting an efcape, as above, 
founded on the fuppofition gathered from the former 
difcourfe; viz. that there were feventeen bearded 
men there ; and therefore, without any delay, I went 
to work with Friday^ to find out a great tree proper 
to fell, and make a large periagua or canoe, to under- 
take the voyage: there were trees enough in the 
ifland to have built a little fleet, not of periaguas and 
canoes only, but even of good large vefTels : but the 
main thing I looked at, was to get one fo near the 
water, that we might launch it when it was made, 
to avoid the miftake I committed at firfl. 

At lafl Friday pitched upon a tree ; for I found he 
knew much better than I what kind of wood was 
fitteft for it ; nor can I tell to this day what wood to 
call the tree we cut down, except that it was very 
like the tree we call fuftick, or between that and the 
Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the fame colour 
and fmell : Friday was for burning the hollow or ca- 
vity of this tree out, to make it into a boat : but I 
fhewed him how rather to cut it out with tools, which 
after I fhewed him how to ufe, he did very handily, 
and in about a month's hard labour we finiflied it, 

and 



288 LIFE AND ADVENtURfiS 

and made It very handfome, efpecially when, with oii? 
axeSy which I fliewed him how to handle, we cut 
and hewed the outfide into the true ftiape of a boat ; 
after this, however, it coft us near a fortnight's time 
to get her along, as it were inch by inch, upon gre^t 
rollers into the water : but when fhe was in, fhe would 
have carried twenty men with great eafe. 

When fhe was in the water, and though fhe was fa 
big, it amazed me to fee with what dexterity and 
how fwift my man Friday could manage her, turn 
.her, and paddle her along ; fo I afked him if he 
would, and if we might venture over in her ? Yes, 
he faid, he venture over in her very well, though 
great blow wind : however, I had a farther defign 
that he knew nothing of, and that was to make a 
mafl and fail, and to fit her with an anchor and ca- 
ble : as to a mafl, that was eafy enough to get ; fo I 
pitched upon aflrait young cedar- tree, which I found 
near the place, and which there was a great plenty of 
in the ifland j and I fet Friday to work to cut it down, 
and gave him direflions how to fliape and order it : 
but as to the fail, that was my particular care ; I knew 
I had old fails, or rather pieces of old fails enough ; 
but as I had them now twenty-fix years by me, and 
had not been very careful to preferve them, not 
imagining that I fhould ever have this kind of ufe for 
them, I did not doubt but they were all rotten ; and 
indeed moft of them were fo ; however, I found two 
pieces which appeared pretty good, and with thefe I 
went to work, and with a great deal of pains, and 
awkward tedious flltching (you may be fure) for 
want of needles, I at length made a three-cornered 
ugly thing, like what we call in England a Ihoulder- 

of- 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOEi 289 

bf-miittOTi fail, to go with a boom at bottom, and a 
little fhort fprit at the tog, fuch as ufually our fliips 
long-boats fail with, and firch as I beft knew how to 
manage ; becaufe it was fuch an one as I ufed in the 
boat in which I made my efcape from Barbary^ as re- 
lated in the firft part of my ftory, 

I was near two months performing this laft work ; 
viz. rigging and fitting my maft and fails; for I 
finifhed them very complete, makipg a fmall ftay, 
and a fail or forefail to it, to affift, if we fhould turn 
to windward ; and, which was more than all, I fixed 
a rudder to the ftern of her, to fteer with j and 
though I was but a bungling fhipwright, yet as I 
knew the ufefulnefs, and even neceffityof fuch a thing, 
I applied myfelf with fo much pains to do itj that at 
laft I brought it to pafs, tho% confidering thje many 
dull contrivances I had for it that failed, I think it 
coft me almoft as much labour as making the boat. 

After all this was done, I had my man Friday to 
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my 
boat ; for tho' he knew very well how to paddle the 
canoe, he knew nothing what belonged to a fail and 
a rudder, and was the more amazed when he faw me 
work the boat to-and-again in the feaby the rudder, 
and how the fail gybed, and filled this way or that 
way, as the courfe we failed changed ; I fay, when 
he faw this, he ftood like one aftonifhed and amazed: 
however, with a little ufe, I made all thefe things fa- 
miliar to him, and he became an expert failor, except 
that as to the compafs I could make him underftand 
very little of that: on the other hand, as there was very 
little cloudy v/eather, and feldom or never any fogs 
in thofe parts, there was the iefs occafion for a com- 

Vot. I, U • pafs, 



ago tlFE AND ADVENTURES 

pafs, fedng the ftars were always to be feen by niglit^ 
and the fliore by day, except in the rainy feafons j 
and then nobody cared to ftir abroad, either by land 
or fea. 

I was now entered on the feven-and-twentieth year 
of my captivity in this place j though the three laft 
years that I had this creature with me, ought rather 
to be left out of the account, my habitation being 
qvute of another kind than in all the reft of my time. 
I kept the anniverfary of my landing here with the 
fame thankfulnefs to God for his mercies as at firft y 
and if I had fuch caufe of acknowledgment at firft, I 
had much more fo now, having fuch additional tef- 
timonies of the care of Providence over me, and the 
great hopes I had of being effeaually and fpeedily 
delivered ; for I had an invincible impreffion upon 
my thoughts, that my deliverance was at hand, and 
that I Ihould not be another year in this place : how- 
ever, I went on with my huft)andry, digging, plant- 
ing, and fencing, as ufualj I gathered and cured 
my grapes, and did every neceffary thing, as before. 

The rainy feafon was in the mean time upon me, 
when I kept more within doors than at other times ; 
fo I had ftowed our new veffel as fecure as we could^ 
bringing her up into the creek, where, as I faid in 
the beginning, I landed my rafts from the fhip ; and 
haling her up to the fhore, at high- water mark, I 
made my man Friday dig a little dock, juft big 
enough for her to float in ; and then, when the tide 
was out, we made a ftrong dam crofs the end of it, 
to keep the water out ; and fa flie lay dry, as to the 
tide, from the fea j and to keep the rain off, we laid 
s|, great many boughs of trees fo thick, that Ihe was 

a3 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* ^^t 

a$ well thatched asan houfe ; and thus we waited for 
the months of November and December^ in which I 
defigned to make my adventure* 

When the fettled feafon began to come in, as the 
thought of my defign returned with the fair weather, 
I was preparing daily for the voyage ; and the firft 
thing I did was to lay up a certain quantity of provi- 
fion, being the ftore for the voyage ; and intended, in 
a week or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and 
launch out our boat : I was bufy one morning upon 
fomething of this kind, when I called to Friday^ and 
bid him go to the fea-ftiore, and fee if he could find 
a turtle or tortoife, a thing which we generally got 
once a week, for the fake of the eggs, as well as the 
flefh. Friday had not been long gone, when he came 
running back, and flew over my outward wall, or 
fence, like one that felt not the ground, or the fteps 
he fet his feet on ; and before I had time to fpeak to 
him, he cried out to me, O mafter \ O matter ! O 
foirow ! O bad ! What's the matter, Friday ^ faid I? 
O yonder there, fays he, one, two, three, canoe 1 
one, two, three! By this way of fpeaking I con, 
eluded there were fix ; but on enquiry I found there 
were but, three. Well Friday^ faid I, do not be 
frighted ; fo I heartened him up as well as I could. 
However, I faw the poor fellow moft terribly feared ; 
for nothing ran in his head but that they were come 
to look for him, and would cut him in pieces, and 
eat him ; the poor fellow trembled fo, that I fcarce 
knew what to do with him : i comforted him as well 
as I could, and told him I was in as much danger as 
he, and that they would eat me as well as him : But, 
faid I, Friday y we muft refolve to fight them : Can 

U 2 vou 



$9^ iLlFE AND ADVENTURES 

you fight, Friday? Me flioot, fays he, but thcrtf 
come many great number. No matter for that, faid 
1 again, our guns will fright them that we do notkiH. 
So I alked him, whether, if I^refolvedtb defend him, 
he would defend me, and (land by me, and do juft 
as I bade him ? He faid. Me die, when you bid die, 
maftcT } fo I went and fetched a good dram of rum, 
and gave him ; for I had been fo good an hufband of 
my rum, f hat I had a great deal left : when he had 
drank it, I made him take the two fowling-pieces 
which we always carried, and load them with large 
fwan (hot as big as fmall piftol-bullets ; then I took 
four mufquets, and loaded them with two flugs, and 
five fmall bullets each j and my Wo piftols I loaded 
With a brace of bullets each : I hung my great fword, 
as ufual, naked by my fide, and gave Friday his 
hatchet. 

When I had thus prepared myfelf, I took my per- 
fpedive-glafs, and went up to the fide of the hill, to 
fee what I could difcover ; and I found quickly, by 
my glafs, that there were one-and-twenty favages., 
three prifoners, and three canoes ; and that their 
whole bufinefs feemed to be the triumphant banquet 
upon thefe three human bodies ; a barbarous feaft 
indeed, but nothing more than as I had obferved was 
ufual with them. 

I obferved alfo, that they were landed, not where 
they had done when Friday made his efcape, but 
nearer to my creek, where the fhore was low, and 
where a thick wood came clofe almoft down to the fea: 
this, with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand 
thefe wretches came about, fo filled me with indig- 
nation, that I came down again to Friday^ and tcld 

him. 



f)F ROBIKSON CRUSOE* 293 

him, I was refolved to go down to them, and kill 
them all ; and afked him if he would ftand by me. He 
was now gotten over his frighf, and his fpirits being 
a little raifed with the dram I had given him^ he was 
very cheerful ; and told me, as before, he would 
die when I bid die. 

In this fit of fury, I took firft and divided the 
arms which I had charged, as before, between us : 
I gave Friday one piftol to ftick in his girdle, and 
three guns upon his Ihoulder ; and I took one piftol, 
and the other three, myfelf ; and in this pofture we 
marched out ; I took a fmall bottle of rum in my 
pocket, and gave Friday a large bag with more pow- 
der and bullet ; and as to orders, I charged him to 
keep clofe behind me, and not to ftir, Ihoot, or do 
any thing till I bid him ; and in the mean time, not 
to fpeak a word : in this pofture I fetched a compafs 
to my right hand of near a mile, as well to get over 
the creek as to get into the wood ; fo that I might 
come within fliot of them before I could be difcovered, 
which I had feen by my glafs it was eafy to do. 
. While i was making this march, my former 
thoughts returning, I began to abate my refolution - 
I do not mean, that I entertained any fear of their 
number ; for as they were naked, unarmed wretches, 
'tis certain I was fuperior to them ; nay, though I had 
•been alone : but it occurred to my thoughts, what 
call, what occafion, much lefs what necefGty, I was 
in to go and dip my hands in blood, to attack people 
who had neither done or intended me any wrong, who, 
as to me, were innocent, and whofe barbarous cuf- 
loms were their own difafter, being in them a token 
indeed of God's having left them, with the other 

V 3 natiojis 



594 ^^^E AND ADVENTURES 

nations of that part of the world, to fuch ftupidity 
and to fuch inhuman courfes ; but did not call me to 
take upon me to be a judge of their aftions, much 
lefs an executioner of his juftice ; that whenever he 
thought fit, he would take the caufe ' into his own 
hands, and by national vengeance punifh them for 
national crimed ; but that in the mean time, it was 
none of my bufinefs : that it was true, Friday might 
juftify it, becaufe he was a declared enemy, and in a 
ftate of war with thofe very particular people, and it 
was lawful for him to attack them ; but I could not 
fay the fame with refpedt to me. Thefe things were 
fo warmly preffed upon my thoughts all the way as \ 
went, that I refolved I would only go place myfelf 
near them, that I might obferve their barbarous feaft, 
and that I would a£l then as God. fliould dired ; but 
that unlefs fomething offered that was m.ore a call to 
me than yet I knew of, I would not meddle with 
them. 

With this refolution I entered the wood, and with 
all poifible warinefs and filence (Friday following 
clofe at my heels) I marched till I came to the fkirt 
of the wood, on the fide which was nei^t to themj 
only that one corner of the wood lay between me 
and them : here I called foftly to Friday^ and Ihew- 
ing him a great tree, which was juft at the corner of 
the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and bring me 
word if he could fee there plainly what they were 
doing : he did fo, and came immediately back to me, 
and told me they might be plainly viewed there ; that 
they were all about the fire, eating the flelh of one of 
their prifoners ; and that anotW lay bound upon 
the fand, a little from them, whom he laid they would 

kill 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE^ 295 

kill next, and which fired the very foul within me. 
He told me, it was not one of their nation, but one 
of the bearded men whom he had told me of, who 
came to their country in the boat. I was filled with 
horror at the very naming the white-bearded man, 
and, going to the tree, I faw plainly, by my glafs, 
a white man, who lay upon the beach oiF the fea^ 
^ith his hands and his feet tied with flags, or things 
like rulhes ; and that he was an European^ and had 
clothes on* 

There was another tree, and a little thicket be- 
yond it, about fifty yards nearer to them than the 
place where I was, which, by going a little way 
about, I faw I might come at undifcovercd, and that 
then I fliould be within half fliot of them ; fo I with- 
held my paflion, though I ^as indeed enraged to the 
higheft degree ; and going back about twenty paces, 
I got behind fome bufhes, which held all the way till 
I came to the other tree, and then I came to a. little 
rifing ground, which gave me a full view of thctn, at 
the diftance of about eighty yards. 

I had now not a moment to lofe ; for nineteen of 
the dreadful wretches fat upon the ground all clofe 
huddled together, and had juft fent the other two to 
butcher the' poor Chriflian, and brings him, perhaps 
limb by limb, to their fire ; and they were ftooped 
down to untie the bands at his feet. I turned to FrU 
day ; Now, Friday^ faid I, do as I bid thee. Friday 
faid, he would. Then, Friday^ faid I, do exadbly 
as you fee me do ; fail in nothing. So I fet dowii 
one of the mufquets and the fowling-piece upon the 
ground, and Friday did the like by his j and with 
the other mufquet I took my aim at the favages, bid* 

y 4 ' ding 



ag6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ding him do the like. Then afking him if he wa^ 
ready, he faid, Yes. Then fire at them, faid I j and 
the fame moment I fired alfo. 

Friday took his aim fo much better than I, that on 
the fide that he fhot, he killed two of them, and 
wounded three more ; and on my fide, I killed one, 
and wounded two. They were, you may be fure, in 
a dreadful conflernation ; and all of them, who were 
not hurt, jumped up upon their feet immediately, 
but did not know which way to run, or which way 
to look ; for they knew not from whence their de- 
ftruftion came. Friday kept his eyes clofe upon me, 
that as I had bid him, he might obferve what I did ; fq 
as foon as the firft Ihot was made, I threw down the 
piece, and took up the fowling-piece, and Friday did 
the like ; he fees me cock, and prefent ; he did the 
fame again. Are you ready, Friday ? faid I. Yes, 
fays he. Let fly then, faid I, in the name of God ; 
and with that I fired again among the amazed wretches, 
and fo did Friday; and as our pieces were now loaden 
with what I called fwan-flibt, or fmall piftol bullets, 
we found only two drop ; but fo many were wounded, 
that they ran about yelling and fcreaming like mad 
creatures, all bloody, and miferably wounded mod 
of them ; whereof three more fell quickly after, 
though not quite dead. 

Now, Friday^ faid I, laying down the difcharged 
pieces, and taking up the mufquet, which was yet 
loaden, follow me, faid I ; which he did, with a 
deal of courage ; upon which I rufhed out of the 
wood, and fhewed myfelf, and Friday clofe at my foot : 
as foon as I perceived they faw me, I fliouted as loud 
^s I could, and bade Friday do fo tooj and running 

as 



0? ROBINSON CRUSOE^ 1^7 

SIS fafl: as I could, which by the way was not very faft, 
being loaded with arms as I was, I made direflily to- 
wards the poor viftim, who was, as I faid, lying 
upon the beach, or fhore, between the place where 
they fat and the fea ; the two butchers, who were 
jull going to work with him, had left him, at the 
furprife of our firft fire, and fled in a terrible fright 
to the fea-fide, and had jumped iiito a canoe, and 
three m^re of the reft made the fame way : I turned 
to Friday^ and bade him ftep forwards, and fire at ' 
them ; he uiiderfto<3d me immediately, and running 
about forty yards to be near them, he {hot at them, 
and I thought he had killed them all ; for I faw 
them all fall on an heap into the boat ; though I faw 
two of them up again quickly : however, he killed ^ 
two of them, and wounded the third, fo that he lay 
down in the bottom of the boat, as if he had been 
dead. 

While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out 
my knife, and cut the flags that bound tfie poor 
viftim ; and loofing his hands and feet I lifted him 
up, and aflced him in the Portuguefe tongue, what 
he was ? He anfwered in Latin, Chrijliamis ; but 
was fo weak and faint, that he could fcarce ftand, or 
fpeak ; I took my bottle out of my pocket, and gave 
it him, making figns that he fliould drink, which he 
did ; and I gave him a piece of bread, which he eat ; 
then I afl^ed him, what countryman he was ? and he 
faid, Efpagnole ; and, being a little recovered, let 
me know, by all the figns he could poflOibly make, 
how much he was in my debt for his deliverance : 
Sieignior, faid I, with as much Spanijh as I could 
make up, we will talk afterwards, but we i^uft fight 
uow: if you have any ilrength left, take this piftol 

and 



ftgS IIFE AND ADVENTURES 

and fword, and lay about you : he took them very 
thankfully, and no fooner had he the arms in his 
hands, but as if they had put new vigour into him, 
he flew upon his murderers like a fury, and had cut 
two of them in pieces in an inftant ; for the truth is, 
as the whole was a furprife to them, fo the poor crea-^ 
tures were fo much frighted >\ith the noife of our 
pieces, that they fell down for mere amazement and 
fear, and had no more power to attempt their own 
efcape, than their fleih had to refift our Ihot ; and 
that was the cafe of thofe five that Friday (hot in thq 
boat ; for as three of them fell with the hurt they re« 
ceived, fo the other two fell with the fright. 

I kept my piece in my hand ftill, without firing, 
being willing to keep my charge ready, becaufe I had 
given the Spaniard my pillol and fword ; fo I called 
to Friday^ and bade him run up to the tree fron^ 
whence we firft fired, and fetch the arms which lay 
there, that had been difcharged, which he did with 
great fwiftnefs ; and then giving him my mufqu^t, I 
fat down myfelf to load all the reft again, and bade 
them come to me when they wanted : while I was 
loading thefe pieces, there happened a fierce engage-i 
ment between the Spaniard and one of the favages, 
who made at him with one of their great wooden 
fwords, the fame weapon that was to have killed him 
before, if I had not prevented it : the Spaniard^ who 
was as bold and as brave as could be imagined, tho* 
weak, had fought this Indian a good while, and had 
cut him two great wounds on his headj but the 
favage, being a ftout lufty fellow, clofing in with 
him, had thrown him down (being faint), and was 
wringing my fword out of his hand, when the Spa-* 
niard^ though undermofl, wifely quitting his fword, 

drew 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* jSpJI 

drew the piftol from his girdle, Ihot the favage 
through the body, and killed him upon the fpot, be- 
fore I, who was running to help, could come near 
him. 

Friday^ being now left at his liberty, purfued the 
flying wretches with no weap9n in his hand but his 
hatchet; and with that he difpatched thofe three, 
who, as I faid before, were wounded at firft, and 
fallen, and all the reft he could come up with j and 
the Spaniard coming to me for a gun, I gave him one 
of the fowling pieces, with which he purfued two of 
thefavages, and wounded them both ; but as he was 
not able to run, they both got from him into the 
wood, where Friday purfued them, and killed one of 
them ; but the other was too nimble for him j and 
though he was wounded, yet he plunged into thefea, 
and fwam with all his might off to thofe who were 
left in the canoe, which three in the canoe, with one 
wounded, v/ho we know not whether he died or no, 
were all that efcaped our hands of one-and-twenty* 
The account of the reft is as follows : 

3 Killed at our fliot from the tree, 

a Killed at the next fhot. 

2 Killed by Friday in the boat. 

2 Killed by ditto, of thofe at firft wounded. 
' I Killed by ditto, in the wood. 

3 Killed by the Spaniard. 

4 Killed, being found dropt here and there of their 
wounds, or killed by Friday in his chace of them. 

4 Efcaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if 

not dead, 
p i 
21 in all. 

I ■ 111. iWli 1 ^ 

Thofe 



too LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

Thofe that were in the canoe, worked hard to 
get out of gun-fhot ; and though Friday made two 
or three (hot at them, I did not find that he hit any 
of them : Friday would fain have had me take one 
of their canoes, and purfue them ; and indeed I was 
very anxious about their efcape, left carrying the 
news home to their people, they fliould come back, 
perhaps, with two or three hundred of their canoes, 
and devour us by mere multitudes ; fo I confented 
to purfue them by fea j and running to one of their 
canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday follow me ; 
but when I was in the canoe, I was furprifed to find 
another poor creature lie there alive, bound hand and 
foot, as the Spaniard was, for the flaughter, and 
almoft dead with fear, not knowing what the mat- 
ter was ; for he had not been able to look up over 
the fide of the boat, he was tied fo hard, neck and 
heels j and had been tied fo long, that he had really 
little life in hinu 

I immedately cut the twifted flags, or ruftiesj 
which they had bound him with, and would have 
helped him up ; but he could not ftand, or fpeak, 
but groaned moft piteoufly, believing, it feems 
ftill, that he was only unbound in order to be 
killed. 

When Friday came to him, I bade him fpeak tq 
him, and tell him of his deliverance ; and pulling 
out my bottle, made him give the poor wretch a 
dram, which, with the news of his being delivered, 
revived him, and he fat up in the boat; but when 
Friday came to hear him fpeak, and looked in his 
^face, it would have moved any one to tears, to have 
feen how Friday kifled him, embraced him, hugged 
him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about, danced. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSO£# ^Ot 

fung, then cried again, wrung his hands, beat hia 
own face and head, and then fung and jumped about 
again like a diftracled creature. It was a good 
while before I could make him fpeak to me, or tell 
me what was the matter ; but when he came a little to 
himfelf, he told me that it was his father. 

It was not eafy for me to exprefs how it moved me^ 
to fee what extafy and filial affeftion had worked in 
this poor favage, at the fight of his father, and of his 
being delivered from death ; nor itideed can I defcribe 
half the extravagances of his affeftion after this ; for 
he went into the boat and out of the boat a great 
many times : when he went in to him, he would fit 
down by him, open his breaft, and hold his father's 
head clofe to his bofom, half an hour together, to 
nourifii it : then he took his arms and ankles, which 
were numbed and ftifF with the binding, and chafed 
and rubbed them with his hands ^ and, I perceiving 
what the cafe was, gave him fome rum out of my 
bottle to rub them with, which did them a great deal 
of good. 

This action put an end to our purfuit of the canoe 
with the other favages, who were now gotten almoft 
out of fight ; and it was happy for us that we did 
not ; for it blew fo hard within two hours after, and 
before they could be gotten a quarter of their way, 
and continued blowing fo hard all night, and that from 
the north-weft, which was againft them, that I could 
not fuppofe their boat could live, or that they ever 
reached to their own coaft. 

But to return to Friday; he was fo bufy about his 
father, that I could not find in my heart to take him 
off for fome time: but after I thought he could leave 
him a little, I called him to me, and he came jumping 

and 



302 LIFE AND ADVENTURE^ 

and laughing, .and pleafed to the higheft extrem^^ 
Then I afked him, if he had given his father any 
bread? He fhook his head, and faid, None: ugly 
dog eat all up felf. So I gave him a cake of bread 
out of a little pouch I carried on purpofe; I alfo gave 
him a dram for himfelf, but he would not tafteit, but 
carried it to his father: I had in my pocket alfo two 
or three bunches of my raifins, fo I gave him a hand- 
ful of them for his father. He had no fooner given 
his father thefe raifins, but I faw him come out of the 
boat, and run away as if he had been bewitched. He 
ran at fuch a rate, (for he was the fwifteft fellow 
of his feet that ever I faw) I fay, he ran at 
fuch a rate, that he was out of fight, as it were, 
in a inftant; and though I called and hallooed too 
after him, it was all one; av/ay he went, and in a 
quarter of an hour I faw him come back again, though 
not fo faft as he went ; and as he came nearer, I 
found his pace was flacker, becaufe he had fomething 
in his hand. 

When he came up to me, I found he had been 
quite home for an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his 
father fome frefh water; and that he had got two 
more cakes or loaves of bread. The bread he gave 
me, but the water he carried to his father : however, 
as I was very thirfty too, I took a little fup of it : 
this water revived his father more than all the rum or 
fpirits I had given him ; for he was juft fainting with 
thirft. 

When his father had drank, I called him, to know 
if there was any water left? he faid. Yes; and I bade 
him give it to the poor Spaniard^ who was in as much 
want of it as his father; and I fent one of the cakes, 
that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, who was 

indeed 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 303 

indeed very weak, and was repofing himfelf upon a 
green place, under the fhade of a tree, and whofe 
limbs were alfo very ftiflf, and very much fwelled 
with the rude bandage he had been tied with : when I 
faw that upon Friday^ coming to him with the water, 
he fat up and drank, and took the bread, and began 
to eat, I went to him, and gave him an handful of 
raifins; he looked up in my face with all the tokens 
of gratitude and thankfulnefs that could appear in any 
countenance ; but was fo weak, notwithftanding he 
had fo exerted himfelf in the fight, that he could not 
ftand upon his feet; he tried to do it tv/o or three 
times, but was really not able, his ankles were fo 
fwelled and fo painful to him; fo I bade him fit ftill, 
and caufed Friday to rub his ankles, and bathe them 
with rum, as he had done his father's. 

I obferved the poor affeftionate creature every two 
minutes, or perhaps lefs, all the while he was here, 
turned his head about, to fee if his father was in the 
fame place and pofture as he left him fitting; and at 
laft he found he was ilot to be feen; at which he 
ftarted up, and, without fpeaking a word, flew with 
that fwiftnefs to him, that one could fcarce perceive 
his feet to touch the ground as he went: but when he 
came, he only found he had laid himfelf down to eafe 
his limbs: fo Friday came back to me prefently, and 
I then fpoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up, 
if he could, and lead him to the boat, and then he 
fliould carry him to our dwelling, where I would take 
care of him: but Friday^ a lufty young fellov/, took 
the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and carried him 
away to the boat, and fet him down foftly upon the 
fide or gunnel of the catioe, with his feet in the in- 

fide 



J04 MFE AND ADVENTURBS 

fide of It, and then lifted them quite in, and let hidl 
clofe to his father^ and- prefently ftepping out again^ 
launched the boat off, and paddled it along the fliore 
fafter than I could walk, though the wind blew pretty- 
hard too; fo he brought them both fafe into out 
creek; and leaving them in the boat, runs away to* 
fetch the other canoe. As he pafTed me, I fpoke to 
him, and a(ked him, whither he went ? He told me^ 
Go fetch more boat; fo away he went, like the 
wind; for fure never man or horfe ran like him, and 
he had the other canoe in the creek almoft as foori 
as I got to it by land; fo he wafted me over, and then 
went to help our new guefts out of the boat^ 
which he did ; but they were neither of them 
able to walk; fo that poor Friday knew not what 
to do. 

To remedy this, I went to work In my thought 
and calling to Friday to bid them fit down on the 
^Dank while he came to me, I foon made a kind of 
hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I carried 
them up both together upon it between us; but when 
we got them to the outfide of our wall or fortification,* 
we were at a worfe lofs than before ; for it was im- 
poffible to get them over; arid I was refolved not to 
break it down: fo I fet to work again; and Friday 
and I, In about two hours time, made a very hand- 
fome tent, covered with old fails, and above that 
with boughs of trees, being in the fpace without our 
outward fence, and between that and the grove of 
young wood which I had planted : and here we made 
two beds of fuch things as I had; viz. of good rlce- 
iimw, with blankets laid upon it to lie on, and another 
to cover them on each bed. 

My 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* 305 

My ifland was now peopled, and I thought myfelf 
very rich in fubjeds ; and it was a merry refleftion 
which I frequently made, how like a king I looked : 
firft of all the whole country was my own mere pro- 
perty ; fo that 1 had an undoubted right of dominion : 
2dly, My people were perfeftly fubje&ed: I was ab- 
folute lord and lawgiver; they all owed their lives to 
me, and were ready to lay down their lives, if there 
had been occafion for it, for me : it was remarkable 
too, I had but three fubjefts, and they were of three 
different religions. My man Friday was a proteftant, 
his father a pagan and a canibal; and the Spaniard 
was a papift: however, I allowed liberty of con- 
fcience throughout my dominions : but this by the 
way. 

As foon as I had fecured my two weak refcued pri- 
foners, and given them flicker, and a place to reft 
them upon, I began to think of making fome pro- 
vifion for them ; and the firft thing I did, I ordered 
Friday to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a 
goat, out of my particular flock, to be killed: then I 
cut off the hind quarter, and, chopping it into fmall 
pieces, I fet Friday to work to boiling and ftewing, 
and made them a very good difli, I affure you, of flefli 
and broth; having put fome barley and rice alfo into 
the broth, and as I cooked it without doors (for I 
made no fire within my inner wall) fo I carried it all 
into the new tent ; and having fet a table there for 
them, I fat down and eat my dinner alfo with them; 
and, as well as I could, cheered them and en- 
couraged them, Friday being my interpreter, efpe- 
cially to his father, and indeed to xh^ Spaniard too; 

Vol. I. X for 



3o6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

for the Spariiard fpoke the language of the favages 
pretty well. 

After we had dined, or rather fupped, I ordered 
Friday to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch 
our mufquets and other fire-arms, which, for want of 
time, we had left upon the place of battle; and the 
next day I ordered him to go and bury the dead 
bodies of the favages, which lay open to the fun, and 
would prefently be ofienfive ; and I alfo ordered him 
to bury the horrid remains of their barbarous feaft, 
which I knew were pretty much, and which I could 
not think of doing myfelf; nay, I could not bear to 
fee them, if I went that way : all which hepunftually 
performed, and defaced the very appearance of the 
favages being there; fo that when I went again, I 
could fcarce know where it was, otherwife than by 
the corner of the wood pointing to the place. 

I then began to enter into a little converfation \vith 
my two new fubjefts; and firft I kt Friday to enquire 
of his father, what he tliought of the efcape of the 
favages in that canoe ?. and whether he might exped 
a return of them with apov/er too great for us to re- 
fift? His firft opinion was, that the favages in the 
boat never could Jive out the ftorm which blew that 
night they went off, but muft of neceffity be drowned 
or driven fouth to thofe other fhores, v*^here they were 
as fure to be devoured, as they were to be drowned if 
they were caft away ; but as to. what they would do 
if they came fafe on fhore, hefaid, he knew not; but 
it was his opinion, that they were fo dreadfully frighted 
with the manner of being attacked, the noife, andf 
the fire, that he believed they would tell their people 

they 



OF ROBINSON CkUSOE* ^OJ 

tliey were all killed by thunder and lightning, and 
not by the hand of man; and that the two which ap- 
peared (viz. Friday and I) were two heavenly fpirits 
or furies come down to deftroy them, and not men 
with weapons. This, he faid, he knew, becaufe he 
heard them all cry out fo in their language to one 
another ; for it was impoffible for them to conceive 
that a man fhould dart fire, and fpeak thunder, and 
kill at a diftance, without lifting up the hand^ as 
was done now. And this old favage was in the 
right, for, as I underllood fince by other hands, the 
favages of that part never attempted to go over to the 
ifland afterwards. They were fo terrified with the 
accounts given by thefe four men (for it feems they 
did efcape the fea), that they believed, whoever went 
to that inchanted ifland, would be deftroyed with 
fire from the gods. 

This, however, I knew not, and therefore was 
under continual apprehenfions for a good while, and 
kept always upon my guard, I and all my army j 
for as there were now four of us, I would have ven- 
tured upon an hundred of them fairly in the open 
field at any time. 

In a little time, however, no niore canoes ap- 
pearing, the fear of their coming wore off, and I 
began to take my former thoughts of a voyage to 
the main into confideration, being likewife af- 
fured by Friday^ father, that I might depend upon 
good ufage from their nation on his account, if I 
would go. 

But my thoughts were a little fufpended, when I 

had a ferious diicourfe with the Spaniard^ and when 

I underftood, that there were fixteen more of his 

X z countrymen 



JoS LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

countrymen and Poriuguefe^ viho having been aSk 
away, and made their efcape to that fide, lived there 
at peace indeed with the favages, but were very fore 
put to it for neceffaries, and indeed for life: I afked 
him all the particulars of thdr voyage ; and found 
they were a SpaniJJ^ (hip, bound from the Rio de la 
Plata to the Havanna^ being direfted to leave 
their loading there, which was chiefly hides and fil- 
ver, and to bring back what European goods they 
could meet with there ; that they had five Poriuguefe 
feamen on board, whom they took out of another 
wreck; that five of their own men were drowned 
when firft the fhip was loft; and that thefe efcaped 
through infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived 
almoft ftarved on the Canibal coaft, where they ex- 
pefted to have been devoured every moment. 

He told me, they had fome arms with them, but 
they were perfedly ufelefs, for that they had neither 
powder or ball, the waffling of the fea having 
ipoiled all their powder, but a little which they 
ufed at their firft landing to provide themfelves fome 
food. 

I afked him what he thought would become of them 
there; and if they had formed no defign of making 
any efcape? He faid, they had many confultations 
about it; but that having neither veffel, nor tools ta 
build one, or provifions of any kind, their counfels 
always ended in tears and defpair. 

I alked him, how bethought they would receive a 
propofal from me, which might tend towards an 
efcape; and whether, if they were all here, it might 
not be done? I told him with freedom, I feared 
moftly their treachery and ill ufage of me, if I put 

my 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 309 

my life in their hands; for that gratitude was no in- 
herent virtue in the nature of man; nor did men 
always fquare their dealings by the obligations they 
had received, fo much as they did by the advantages 
they expected: I told him, it would be very hard, 
that I fhould be the inftrument of their deliverance, 
and that they fhould afterwards make me their pri- 
fonerin N^w Spain^ where an Englijhman was certain 
to be made a facrifice, what neceffity, or what ac- 
cident foever, brought him thither; and that I had 
rather be delivered up to the favages, and be devoured 
alive, than fall into the mercilefs claws pf the priefts, 
and be carried into the inquifition. I added, that 
otherwife I was perfuaded, if they were all here, we 
might, with fo many hands, build a bark large 
enough to carry us all away either to the Brafils fouth- 
ward, or totheiflands or Spartijb coaft northward: 
but that if in requital they fhould, when I had put 
weapons into their hands, carry me by force among 
their own people, I might be ill ufed for my kind^ 
hefs to them, and make my cafe worfe than it was 
before. 

He anfwered, with a great deal of candour and in* 
genuity, that their condition was fo miferable, and 
they were fo fenfible of it, that he believed they would 
abhor the thought of ufmg any man unkindly that 
fhould contribute to their deliverance; and that, if 
I pleafed, he would go to them with the old man, 
and difcourfe with them about it, and return again, 
and bring me their anfwer: that he would make con- 
ditions with them upon their folemn oath', that they 
would be abfolutely under my leading, as their com- 
mander and captam; and that ihey fhould fwear 

X 3 - upon 



3IO LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

upon the holy facraments and gofpel, to be true to 
me, and go to fuch chriftian country as I fhould 
agree to, and no other; and to be directed wholly 
and abfolutely by my orders, till they were landed 
fafely in fuch country as I intended; and that he would 
bring a contrad from them under their hands for that 
purpofe. 

Then he told me, he would firft fwear to me him- 
felf, that he would never ftir from me as long as he 
lived, till I gave him order; and that he would take 
my fide to the laft drop of blood, if there fliould 
happen the leafl breach of faith among his country- 
men. 

He told me, they were all of them very civil honefl 
men, and they were under the greateft diftrefs imagi- 
nable, having neither weapons or clothes, nor any food, 
but at the mercy and difcretion of the favages; out 
of all hopes of ever returning to their own country ; 
and that he was fure, if I would undertake their re^ 
lief, they would live and die by me. 

Upon thefe aflurances, I refolved to venture to re- 
lieve them, if poffible, and to fend the old favage and 
this Spaniard over to them to treat: but when he had 
gotten all things in readinefs to go, the Spaniard him- 
felf ftarted an objeftion, which had fo much prudence 
in it on one hand, andfo much fincerity on the other 
hand, that I could not but be very well fatisfied in 
it ; and, by his advice, put oflF the deliverance of 
his comrades for at leaft half a year. The cafe was 
thus: 

He had been with us ndw about a month; during 
which time I had let him fee in what manner I had 
prpvided, with the affiftance of Providence, for my 

fupport} 



OF ROBINSON GRUSOI-. 3II 

fupport ; and he faw evidently what ftock of corn and 
rice I had lain up ; which, as it was more than fuf- 
iicient for myfelf, fo it was not fufncient, at leaft 
without good hufbandry, for my family, nov/ it was 
increafed to number four: but much lefs would it be 
fufficient, if his countrymen, who were, as he fald, 
fourteen ftill alive, fhould come over; and leaft of all 
would it be fufficient to viftual pur veffel, if we fliould 
build one, for a voyage to any of the chriftian co- 
lonies of America. So he told me, he thought it 
would be more advifeable, to let him and the other 
two. dig and cultivate fome more land, a5 much as I 
could Tpare feed to fow ; and that we Ihould wait 
another harveft, that we might have a fupply of corn 
for his countrymen when they fhould come; for want 
might be a temptation to tbem to difagree, or not to 
think themfelves delivered, othcrwife than out of one 
-difficulty into another : you know, fays he, the chil- 
dren of Ifraelj though they rejoiced at firft at their 
being delivered out of Egypt^ yet rebelled even againfl 
God himfelf, that delivered them, when they cam,(J 
to want bread in the v/ildernefs. 

His caution was fo feafonable, and his advice fo 
:good, that I could not but be very well pleafed with 
his propofal^ as well as I was fatisfied with his fidelity: 
fo we fell to digging, all four of us, as well as the 
Wooden tools we were furnifhed with permitted; and 
in about a month's time, by the end of which it was 
feed-time, we had gotten as much land cured and 
trimmed up as we fowed twenty-two bufheis of barley 
on, and fixteen jars of rice, which was, in fhort, all 
the feed we had to fpare; nor indeed did wq leave 
curfelves barley fufficient for our own food for the 

X 4 fi^ 



312 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

fix months that we had to cxpcft our crop, that is 
to fay, reckoning from the time we fet our feed afide 
for fowing ; for it is not to be fuppofed it is fix months 
in the ground in that country. 

Having now fociety enough, and our number being 
fufficient to put us out of fear of the favages, if they 
had come, unlefs their number had been very great, 
we went freely all over the ifland, where-ever we 
found occafion; and as here we had our efcape or 
deliverance upon our thoughts, it was impoffible, at 
leaft for me, to have the means of it out of mine ; to 
this purpofe, I marked out feveral trees, which I 
thought fit for our work, and I fet Friday and his 
father to cutting them down; and then I caufed the 
Spaniard^ to whom I imparted my thoughts on that 
affair, to overfee and direfl: their work: 1 fhewed 
them with what indefatigable pains I had hewed a 
large tree into fingle planks, and I caufed them to do 
the like, till they had made about a do^en large 
planks of good oak, near two feet broad, thirty -five 
feet long, and from two inches to four inches thick: 
what prodigious labour it took up, any one may 
imagine. 

At the fame time I contrived to increafe my little 
flock of tame goats as much as I could; and to this 
purpofe I made Friday and the Spaniard to go out one 
day, and myfelf, with Friday^ the next day, for we 
took our turns: and by this means we got about 
twenty young kids to breed up with the refl ; for 
whenever we Ihot the dam, we faved the kids, and 
added them to our flock: but above all, the feafon 
for curing the grapes coming on, I caufed fuch a 
prodigious quantity to be hung up in the fun, that I 

believe, 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3T3 

believe, had we been at Alicant^ where the raifins of 
the fun are cured, we fhould have filled fixty or 
eighty barrels; and thefe, with our bread, was a great 
part of our food, and very good living too, I allure 
you ; for it is an exceeding nourifhing food. 

It was now harveft, and our crop^n good order; 
it was not the mod plentiful increafe I had feenin the 
ifland, but, however, it was enough to anfwer our 
end; for from twenty-two bulhels of barley, we 
brought in and threfhed out above two hundred and 
twenty bufliels, and the like in proportion of the rice, 
which was ftore enough for our food to the next 
harveft, though all the fixteen Spaniards had been 
on Ihore with me ; or, if we had been ready for a 
voyage, it would very plentifully have viftualled 
our Ihip, to have carried us to any part of the world, 
that is to fay, of America. When we had thus houfed 
and fe'jured our magazine of corn, we fell to work to 
make more wicker-work ; viz. great balkets, in which 
we kept it ; and the Spaniard was very handy and 
dexterous at this part, and often blamed me, that I 
did not make fome things for defence of this kind of 
work; but I faw no need of it: and now having a 
full fupply of food for all the guefts expefted, I gave 
the Spaniard leave to go over to the main, to fee what 
he could do with thofe he left behind him there : I 
gave him a ftrift charge in writing not to bring any 
ftian with him, who would not firft fwear, in the pre- 
fence of himfelf and of the old favage, that he would 
no way injure, fight with, or attack the perfon he 
fhould find jn the ifland, who was fo kind to fend for 
them in order to their deliverance; but that they 
would ftand by and defend hinx againft all fuch at- 
tempts; 



314 ^^^^ ANp ADVENTURES 

tempts; and wherever they went, would be en- 
tirely under, and fubjeded to his command; and that 
this fhould be put in writing, and figned with their 
hands ; how we were to have this done, when I knew 
they had neither pen or ink, that indeed was a quef- 
tion which we never alked. 

Under thefe inftruftions, the Spaniard^ and the 
old favage (the father of Friday) went away in one of 
the canoes, which they might be faid to come in, or 
rather were brought in, w hen they came as prifoners 
to be devoured by the favages. 

I gave each of them a mufquet with a firelock on 
it, and about eight charges of powder and ball* 
charging them to be very good hufbands of both> 
.and not to ufe either of them but upon urgent oc* 
cafions. 

This was a cheerful work, being the firft meafures 
ufed by me in view of my deliverance for now 27 
years and fome days; I gave them provifions of 
bread, and of dried grapes, fufficierit for themfelves 
for many days, and fufficient for their countrymen 
for about eight days time; and wifhing them a good 
voyage, I let them go, agreeing with them about a 
fignal they fhould hang out at their return, by which 
I fhould know them again, when they came back, at 
a diflance, before they came on fhore. 

They went away with a fair gale on the day that 
the moon was at the full ; by my account in the 
month of O^ober; but as for the exaft reckoning of 
days, after I had once lofl it, I could never recover 
it again; nor had I kepfeven the number of years 
fo pun£tually, as to be fure that I was right, 
though, as it proved v.hen I afterwards examined 

my 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ,315% 

ifhy account, I found I had kept a true reckoning of 
years. 

It was no lefs than eight days I waited for them, 
when a ftrange and unforefeen accident intervened, 
of which the like has not, perhaps, been heard of in 
hiftory. I was faft afleep in my hutch one morning, 
when my man Friday came running in to me, and 
called aloud, " Mailer, mafter, they are come, they 



are come." 



I jumped up,, and, regardlefs of danger, I went 
out as foon as I could get my clothes on, through my 
little grove, which (by the way) was by this time 
grown to be a very thick wood ; I fay, regardlefs of 
danger, I went without my arms, which was not my 
cuftom to do ; but I was furprifed, when turning my 
eyes to the fea, I prefently faw a boat at about a 
league and an half's diftance, {landing in for the 
Ihore, with a fhoulder of mutton fail, as they call it, 
and the wind blowing pretty fair to bring them in: 
alfo I obferved prefently, that they did not come from 
that' fide which the fliore lay on, but from the 
fouthermofl end of the ifland : upon this I called 
Friday in, and bid him lie clofe, for thefe were 
not the people we looked for, and that we 
did not know yet whether they were friends or 
enemies. 

In the next place, I went in to fetch my perfpec* 
tive-glafs, to fee what I could make of them ; and 
having taken the ladder out, I climbed up to the top 
of the hill, as I ufed to do when I was apprehenfive 
of any thing, and to take my view the plainer without 
being difcovered. 

I had- 



5il6 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

I had fcarce fet my foot on the hill, when my ey^ 
plainly difcovereda (hip lying at an anchor, at about 
two leagues and a half's diftance from me, S. S. E. 
but not above a league and an half from the fhore. 
By riy obfervation it appeared plainly to be an 
Englijb fhip, and the boat appeared to be an ErjgUJh 
long-boat. 

I cannot exprefs the confufion I was in, though the 
joy of feeing a Ihip, and one whom I had reafon to 
believe was manned by my own countrymen, and 
confequently friends, was fuch as I cannot defcribe ; 
but yet I had fome fecret doubts hung about me, I 
cannot tell from whence they came, bidding me keep 
upon my guard. In the firft place, it occurred to 
me to confider what bufinefs an Englijh fhip could 
have in that part of the world; fmce it was not the 
way to or from any part of the world where the En- 
glijh had any trafEck ; and I knew there had been no 
ftorms to drive them in there, as in diftrefs ; and 
that if they were EngliJJo really, it was moft proba- 
ble that tliey were here upon no good defign ; and 
that I had better continue as I was, than fall into the 
hands of thieves and murderers. 

Let no man defpife the fecret hints and notices of 
danger, which fometimes are given him when he 
may think there is no poffibility of its being real. 
That fuch hints and notices are given us, I believe 
few that have made any obfervations of things can 
' deny ; that they are certain difcoveries of an invifible 
•u Grid, and a converfe of fpirits, we cannot doubt ; 
and if the tendency of them feems to be to warn us of 
danger, why fliould we not fuppofe they are from 

fome 



OF ROBINSON CRUS-OE. 317 

feme friendly agent (whether fupreme, or inferor and 
fubordinate, is not the queftion), and that they are 
given for our good ? 

The prefent queftion abundantly confirms me in the 
juftice of this reafoning ; for had I not been made cau- 
tious by this fecret admonition, come from whence it 
will, I had been undone inevitably, and in a far 
worfe condition than before, as you will fee prefently. 

I had not .kept myfelf long in this pofture, but I 
faw the boat draw near the Ihore, as if they looked 
for a creek to thruft in at for the convenience of 
^landing ; however, as they did not come quite far 
enough, they did not fee the little inlet where I for- 
merly landed my rafts, but run their boat on fliore 
upon the beach, at about half a mile from me, which 
was very happy for me ; for otherwife they would 
have landed juft, as I may fay, at my door, and 
would have foon beaten me out of my caftle, and, 
perhaps, have plundered me of all I had. 

When they were on fliore, I was fully fatisfied they 
were Englijhmen^ at leaft moft of them ; one or two I 
thought were Dtitch^ but it did not prove fo : there 
were in all eleven men, whereof three of them I 
found were unarmed, and (as I thought) bound ; and 
when the firft four or five of them were jumped on 
Ihore, they took thofe three out of the boat as prifon- 
jers : one of the three I could perceive ufing the mod 
paflionate geftures of intreaty, afflidion^ and defpair, 
even to a kind of extravagance ; thie other two, I 
could perceive, lifted up their hands fometimes, and 
appeared concerned indeed, but not to fuch a degree 
as the firft, 

I was 



3l8 LIFK AND ADV£2^TURE« 

I was perfedlly confounded at the fight, and kne^?* 
not what the meaning of it ihould be ; Friday called 
out to me in EngUJhj as well as he could, O mafter ! 
you fee Englijh mans eat prifoners as well as favage 
mans. Why, faid I, Friday^ do you think they are 
going to eat them then ? Yes, fays Friday^ they will 
eat them. No, no, faid I, Friday ; I am afraid they 
* will murder them indeed j but you may be fure they 
will not eat them. 

All this while I had no thought of what the matter 
really was, but flood trembling with the horror of 
the fight, expecting every moment when the three 
prifoners fliould be killed ; nay, once I faw one of 
the villains lift up his arm with a great cutlace fas 
the feamen call it) or fword, to ftrike one of the poor 
men ; and I expected to fee him fall every moment, 
at which all the blood in my body feemed to run chill 
in my veins. • 

I wiflied heartily now for our Spaniard^ and the 
favage that was gone with him ; or that I h^d any 
way to have come undifcovered within fhot of them, 
that I might have refcued the three men ; for I faw 
no fire-arms they had among them ; but it fell out to 
my mind another way. 

After I had obferved the outrageous ufage of the 
three men by the infolent feamen, I obferved the 
fellows ran fcattering about the land, as if they 
wanted to fee the country : I obferved alfo, that the 
three other men had liberty to go where they pleafed ; 
but they fat down all three upon the ground very 
penfive, and looked like men in defpair. 

This put me in mind of the firft time when I came 
onlhore, and began to look about mej how I gave 

myfelf 



tft ROBINSOK CRUSOFr 319 

tnyfelf over for loft, how wildly I looked round me, 
what dreadful appr^henfions I had^ and how I lodged 
in the tree all night for fear of being devoured by 
wildbeafts. 

As I knew nothing that night of the fupply I was 
to receive by the providential driving of the Ihip 
nearer the land, by the ftorms and tides, by which 
I have fince been fo long nourifhed and fupported 5 
fo thefe three poor defolate men knew nothing how 
certain^ of deliverance and fupply they were, how 
near it was to them, and hov/ effeftually and really 
they/ were in a condition of fafety, at the fame tiriie 
they thought themfelves loft, and their cafe defpe- 
rate. 

So little do we fee before us in the world, and fa 
much reafon have we to depend cheerfully upon the 
great Maker of the world, that he does not leave his 
creatures fo abfolutely deftitute, but that in theworft 
circumftances they haye always fomething to be 
thankful for, and fometimes are nearer their deliver- 
ance than they imagine j nay, are even brought to 
their deliverance by the means by which they feem to 
be brought to their deftruftion. 

It was juft at the top of high-water when thefe 
people came on fhore, and while partly they flood 
parlying with the prifoners they brought, and partly 
while they rambled about to fee what kind of place 
they were in, they had carelefsly ftaid till the tide 
w^as fpeijit, and the water was ebbed conliderably 
a^^^ay, leaving their boat aground. 

They had left two men in the boat, who, as I 
found afterwards, having drank a little too much 
biandy, fell afleep ; however, one of them waking 

fooner 



520 LIFE AND ADVENTURBS 

' fooner than the other, and finding the boat too faft 
aground for him to ftir it, hallooed for the reft who 
were ftraggling about, upon which they all foon 
came to the boat ; but it was paft all their ftrength 
to launch her, the boat being very heavy, and the 
Ihore on that fide being a foft oufy fand, almoft like a 
quickfand. 

In this condition, like true feamen, who are, per- 
haps, the leaft of all mankind given to forethought, 
they gave it over, and away they ftroUed about the 
country again ; and I heard one of them fay aloud to 
another (calling them off from the boat). Why, let 
her alone, ^ack^ can't ye ? (he'll float next tide : by 
which I was fully confirmed in the main enquiry, of 
what countrymen they were. 

All this while I kept myfelf clofe, not once daring 
to ftir out of my caftle, any farther than to my place 
of obfervation, near the top of the hill ; and very 
glad I was, to think how well it was fortified : I 
knew it was no lefs than ten hours before the boat 
could be on float again, and by that time it w^ould be 
dark^ and I might be more ajt liberty to fee their mo- 
tions, and to hear their difcourfe, if they had any^ 

In the mean time I fitted myfelf up for a battlie, as 
before, though with more caution, knowing I had to 
do with another kind of enemy than I had at firft : I 
ordered Friday alfo, whom I had made an excellent 
markfman with his gun, to load himfelf with arms: 
I took myfelf two fowling-pieces, and I gave him 
three mufquets : my figure, indeed, was very fierce ^ 
I had my formidable goat flcin coat on, with the 
great cap I mentioned, a naked fword, two piftols 
in my belt, and a gun upon each j(houlder» 

It 



01^ ROBINSON CRUS6E. 32 1 

It was my defign, as I faid above, not to have 
ihade any attempt till it was dark ; but about two 
o'clock, being the heat of the day, I found that in 
fliort thdy were all gone ftraggling into the woods, 
and, as I thought, were all laid down to fleep : the 
three poor diftrefled men, too anxioUs for their con- 
dition to get any fleep, were hov/ever fet down under 
the fhelter of a great tree, at about a quarter of a 
tnile from me, and as I thought, out of fight of any 
of the reft* 

Upon this I refolved to difcover myfelf to them j 
and learn fomething of their condition : immediately 
I marched in the figure above, my man Friday at a 
good diftance behind me, as forrnidable for his arms 
as I, but not maldrig quite fo ftaring a fpedre-like 
figure as I did. 

I came as near them undlfcovered as I could, and 
then, before any of them faw me, I called aloud to 
them in Spanijhj What are ycj, Gentlemen ? 

They ftarted up at the noife, but were ten times 
more confounded when they faw me, and the un- 
couth figure that I made : they made lio anfwer at 
all, but I thought I perceived them juft going to fly 
from me, when I fpoke to them in Englijh : Gen- 
tlemen, faid I, do not be furprifed at me ; perhaps 
you may have a friejid near you, when you did not 
expefl: it : He muft befent direftly from Heaven then, 
faid one of them very gravely to me, pulling off his 
hat at the fame time, for our condition is part the 
help of man. All help is from Heaven, Sir, faid I : 
but can you put a ftranger in the way how to help 
you ? For you ieem to me to be in fome great diftrefs : 
I faw you when you landed; and w^hen you feemed 

Vol. I. ' Y to 



322 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

to make application to the brutes that came with 
you, I faw one of them lift up his fword to kill you. 

The poor man, with tears running down his face, 
and trembling, looking like one aftoniflied, re- 
turned. Am I talking to God or man ? Is it a real 
man, or an angei ? Be in no fear about that. Sir, 
faid I : if God had fent an angel to relieve you, he 
would have come better clothed, and armed after 
another manner than you fee me in ; pray lay afide 
your fears ; I am a man, an Englijhmariy and difpofed 
to affift you ; you fee I have one fervant only ; we 
have arms and ammunition ; tell us freely, can we 
ferve you ? — What is your cafe ? 

Our cafe, faid he. Sir, is too long to tell you, 
while our murderers are fo near ; but in fliort. Sir, 
I was commander of that fhip ; my men having mu- 
tinied againft me, they have been hardly prevailed 
on not to murder me, and at lafl: have fet me on fliore 
in this defolate place, with thefe two men with me, 
one my mate, the other a paflenger, where we ex- 
pefted to perifh, believing the place to be unin- 
habited, and know not yet what to think of it. 

Where are thofe brUtes, your enemies ? faid I ; Do 
you know where they are gone ? There they are, Sir, 
faid he, pointing to a thicket of trees; my heart 
trembles for fear they have feen us, and heard you 
fpeak; if they have, they will certainly murder 
us all. ^- 

Havetheyaiiy fire-arms? faid I : heanfwered. They 
had only tys^o pieces, and one which they left in the 
boat. Well then, faid I, leave the reft to me ; I fee 
they are all afleep ; it is an eafy thing to kill them all ; 
but fhall we rather take them prifoners ? He told me 

there 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 323 

there were two defperate villains among them, that it 
was fcarce fafe to fliew any mercy to ; but if they 
were fecured, he believed all the reft would return 
to their duty : I afked him. Which they were ? He 
told me, he could not at that diftance defcribe them ; 
but he would obey my orders in any thing I would 
direft. Well, faid I, let us retreat out of their view 
or hearing, left they awake, and we will refolve far- 
ther ;. fo they willingly went back with me, till the 
woods covered us from them. 

Look you. Sir, faid I, if I venture upon your de- 
liverance, are you willing to make two conditions 
with me ? He anticipated niy propofals, by telling me, 
that both he and the fliip, if recovered, fhould be 
wholly diredled and commanded by me in every 
thing ; and if the fliip was not recovered, he would 
live and die with me in what part of the world foever 
I would fend him j and the two other men faid the 
fame. 

Well, faid I, my conditions are but two : i. That 
while you ftay on this ifland with me, you will not 
pretend to any authority here ; and if I put arms into 
your hands, you will upon all occafions give them up 
to me, and do no prejudice to me or mine, upon this 
ifland, and in the mean time to be governed by my 
orders. 

2. That if the fliip is or may be recovered, you 
will carry me and my man to England^ paflage free. 

He gave me all the aflurance that the invention 
and faith of a man could devife, that he would com- 
ply with thefe moft reafonable demands, and befides, 
would owe his life to me, and acknowledge it upon 
all occafions as long as he lived. 

Y 2 Well 



324 -LIFE AND ADVENTURED 

Well then, faid I, here are three mufquets for you, 
with powder and ball j tell me next what you think is 
proper to be done : he fhewed all the teftimony of 
his gratitude that he was able ; but offered to be 
wholly guided by me : I told him, I thought it was 
hard venturing any thing, but the beft method I 
could think of, wa^ to fire upon them at once, as 
they lay ; and if any were not killed at the firft volley, 
and offered to fubmit, we might fave them, and fa 
put it wholly upon God's providence todirea the 
ihot. 

He faid, very modeftly, that he was loth to kilt 
them, if he could help it ; but that thofe two were 
incorrigible villains, and had been the authors of all 
the mutiny in the flnp; and if they efcapcd, we 
fliould be undone ftill ; 'for they would go on board, 
and bring the whole fhip's company, and deftroy us 
alL Well then, faid I, neceffity legitimates my ad- 
vice ; for it is the only way to fave our lives. How* 
ever, feeing him ftill cautious of (bedding blood, I 
told him, they (hould go themfelves, and manage as 
they found convenient. 

In the middle of this difcourfe we heard fome of 
them awake, and foon after we faw two of them on 
their feet : I afked him, if either cf them were the 
men who he had faid were the heads -of the mutiny ? 
He faid. No. Well then, faid I, you may let them 
efcape, and Providence feems to have wakened them 
on purpofe t6 fave themfelves : Now, faid I, if the 
reft efcape you, it is your fault. 

Animated with this, he took the mufquet I had 
given him in his hand, and piftol in his belt, and 
his two comrades with him, with each man a piece 

in 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ^2^ 

m his hand: the two men, who were \vith him, go- 
ing firft, made fome noife, at which one of the fea- 
men, who was awake, turned about, and feeing 
them coming, cried out to the reft ; but it was too 
late then y for the moment he cried out, they fired, 
I mean the two men, the captain wifely referving his 
own piece : they had fo well aimed their fhot at the 
men they knew, that one of them was killed on the 
fpot, and the other very much wounded ; but not 
being dead, he ftarted up on his feet, and called 
eagerly for help to the other ; but the ca'ptain, ftep. 
ping to him, told him it was too late to cry for help ; 
he fhould call upon God to forgive his villany ; and 
with that word knocked him down with the ftock of 
his mufquet, fo that he never fpoke more: there 
were three more in the company, and one of them 
was alfo nightly wonnded : by this time I was come j 
and when they faw their danger, and that it was in 
vain to xefift, they begged for mercy. The captain 
told them, he would fpare their lives, if they wpuld 
give him any affurance of their abhorrence of the trea- 
chery they had been guilty of, and would fwear to 
be faithful to him in recovering the fliip, and after- 
wards in carrying her back to yamaica^ from whence 
they came. They gave him all the proteftations of 
their fmcerity that could be defired, and he was will- 
ing to believe^ them, and fpare their Hves, which I 
was not againft ; only I obliged him to keep them 
bound hand and foot while they were upon the 
ifland. 

While this was doing, I fent Friday with the 
captain's mate to the boat, with orders to fecure 
her, and bring away the oars and fail, which they 

Y3 didj 



326 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

did ; and by and bye, three ftraggling men, that 
-were (happily for them) parted from the reft, came 
back upon hearing the guns fired ; and feeing their 
captain, who before was their prifoner, now their 
conqueror, they fubmitted to be bound alfo, and fo 
our viftory was complete. 

It now remained, that the captain and I fhould 
enquire into one another's circumftances : I began 
firft, and told him my whole hiftory, which he heard 
with an attention even to amazement, and particu- 
larly at the wonderful manner of my being furnifhed 
with provifions and ammunition ; and indeed, as my 
ftory is a whole coUeftion of wonders, it affeded 
him deeply ; but when he reflefted from thence upon 
himfelf, and how I feemed to have been preferved 
there on purpofe to fave his life, the tears ran down 
his face, and he could not fpeak a word more. 

After this communication was at an end, I carried 
him and his two men into my apartments, leading 
them in juft where I came out, viz. at the top of the 
houfe ; where I refrefhed them with fuch provifions 
as I had, and fhewed them all the contrivances I had 
made during my long, long inhabiting that place. 

All I {hewed them, all I faid to them, was perfeftly 
amazing; but, above all, the captain admired my 
fortification ; and how perfeftly I had concealed my 
retreat with a grove of the trees, which, having now 
been planted near twenty years, and the trees grow- 
ing much fafter than in Englafid^ was become a little 
wood, and fo thick, that it was unpaflable in any 
part of it, but at that one fide where I had referved 
my little winding paffage into it : this I told him was 
my caftle, and my refidence j but that I had a feat 

in 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 327 

in the country, as mod princes have, whither J 
could retreat upon occafion, and I would fhew him 
that too another time ; but at prefent our bufmefs 
was to confider how to recover the fhip. He agreed 
with me as to that ; but told me,' he was perfedly at 
a Icfs what meafure to take ; for that there were ftill 
fix- and- twenty hands on board, who having entered 
into a curfed confpiracy, by which they had all for- 
feited their lives to the law, would be hardened in 
it now by defperation ; and would carry it on, know- 
ing that if they were reduced, they fliould be brought 
to the gallows as foon as they came to England^ or to 
any of the Englijh colonies ; and that therefore there 
would be no attacking them with fo fmall a number 
as we were. 

I mufed for fome time upon what he had faid, and 
found it was a very rational conclufion, and that 
therefore fomething was to be refolved on very 
fpeedily, as well to draw the men onboard into fome 
fnare for their furprife, as to prevent their landing 
upon us, and deftroying us : upon this it prefently 
occurred to me, that in a little while, the fhip^s crew, 
wondering what was become of their comrades, and 
of the boat, would certainly come on fliore in their 
other boat to fee for them ; and that then perhaps 
they might come armed, and be too ftrong for us : 
this, he allowed, was rational. 

Upon tliis I told him, the firft thing we had to do, 
was to ftave the boat, which lay upon the beach, fo 
that they might not carry her off; and, taking every 
thing oiit of her, leave her fo far ufelefs as not to be 
fit to fwim ; accordingly we went on board, took the 
arms which were left on board out of her, and what- 

Y 4 ever 



^l8 LIFE AND ADVENTURED 

CN'crclfewc found there, which was a bottle of brandy, 
and another of rum, a few bifcuit cakes, an horn of 
powder, and a great lump of fugar in a piece of can- 
vas ; the fugar was five or fix pounds ; all which was 
very welcome to me, efjpecially the brandy and fugar, 
of which I had had none left for many years. 

When wc had carried all thefe things on fhore (the 
oars, mail, (ail, and rudder of the boat, were carried 
Kfore, as above) we knocked a great hole in her 
bottom, that if they had come ftrong enough to mailer 
u$, yet they could not carry off the boat. 

Indeed it was not much in my thoughts, that wq 
could l>e capable to recover the fhip ; but my view 
wa.<, that if they went ax^^y without the boat, I di4 
no! much queftion to make her fit again to carry us 
away to the I-eeward lilands, and call upon our 
fiicnds the S/kikjjkJs in my w^y, for I had thern ftill 
in my thoughts* 

\Vhilc we were thus preparing our defigns, and 
had tiril, by main ftrength, heaved the boat up upon 
the beach, fo high that the tide would not float her 
oti^ at high-\^^ater mark ; and, befides, had broken 
an hole in her K">ttom, too big to be quickly flopped, 
and were fat dox^n muling what we fhould do ; • we 
hcarvl the £,\p fire a gun, and faw her make a waft 
with Ik; ancient, as a fignal for the boat to come on 
bi^arU J but no boat llirred ; and they fired feveral 
times, making other llgnals for the boat. 

At laft, when all their figuals and firings proved 
fruitlcfs, and they fomid the boat did not ftir, we 
faw them (by the help of our glaffcs) hoift another 
boat out, and row towards the fhore j and wc found, 

as 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 329 

, as they approached, that there were no lefs than ten 
men in her, and that they had fire arms with them. 

As the fhip lay almoft two leagues from the fhore, 
we had a full view of them as they came, and a plain 
fight of the men, even of their faces ; becaufe the 
tide having fet them a little to the eaft of the other 
boat, they rowed up under fhore, to come to the 
fame place where the other had landed, and where 
the boat lay. 

By this means, I fay, we had a full view of them, 
and the captain knew theperfons and charaQ:ers of all 
the men in the boat ; of whom he faid that there 
were three very honeft fellows, who, he was fure, 
were led into this confpiracy by the reft, being over- 
powered and frighted. 

But that for the boatfwain, who, it feems, was 
the chief ofBcer among them, and all the reft, they 
were as outrageous as any of the ftiip's crew ; and 
were, no doubt, made defperate in their new enter- 
prize ; and terribly apprehenfive he was, that they 
would be too powerful for us. 

I fmiled at him, and told him, that men in our cir- 
cumftances were paft the operations of fear : that 
feeing almoft every condition that could be was better 
than that we were fuppofed to be in, we ought to ex- 
peft that the confequence, whether death or life, 
would be fure to be a deliverance ; I afked him, what 
he thought of the circumftances of my life, and 
whether a deliverance were not worth venturing for ? 
And where. Sir, faid I, is your belief of my being pre- 
fervedhereon purpofe to fave your life, which ele- 
vated you a little while ago ? For my part, faid I, 
there feems to be but one thing amifs in all the pro- 

fpea 



33© LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

fpca of it. What's that ? fays he. Why, faid I, 
'tis that, as you fay, there are three or four honed 
fellows among them, which fliould be fpared ; 
had they been all of the wicked part of the crew, 
I fliould have thought God's providence had fingled 
them out to deliver them into your hands ; for, de. 
pend upon it, every man of them that comes afliore, 
are our own, and fliall die or live, as they behave 
to us. 

As I fpoke this with a raifed voice, and cheerful 
countenance, I found it greatly encouraged him; fo 
we fet vigoroufly to our bufinefs: we had, upon the 
firft appearance of the boat's coming from the fhip, 
confidered of feparating our prifoners, and had in- 
deed fecured them eflfeflually. 

Two of them, of whom the captain was lefs af- 
iured than ordinary, I fent with Friday^ and one of 
the three (delivered men) to my cave, where they 
were remote enough, and out of danger of being 
heard or difcovered, or of finding their way out of 
the woods, if they could have delivered themfelves : 
here they left them bound, but gave them provifions, 
and promifed them, if they continued there quietly, to 
give them their liberty in a day or two ; but that if 
they attempted their efcape, they fliould be put to 
death without mercy. They promifed faithfully to 
bear their confinement with patience, and were very 
thankful that they had fuch good ufage as to have 
prqvifions, and a light left them ; for Friday gave 
them candles (fuch as we made ourfelves) for their 
comfort ; and they did not know but that he flood 
centinel over them at the entrance. 

The 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 331 

The other prifohers had better ufage ; two of them 
were kept pinioned indeed, becaufe the captain was 
not free to truft them ; but the other two were taken 
into my fervice upon their captain^s recommendation, 
and upon their folemnly engaging to live and die 
with us ; fo, with them and the three honeft men, 
we were feven men well armed; and I made no 
doubt we fhould be able to deal well enough with the 
ten that were a coming, confidering that the captain 
had faid, there were three or four honeft men among 
them alfo. 

As foon as they got to the place where their other 
boat lay, they ran their boat into the beach, and 
came all on fhore, hauling the boat up after them, 
which I was glad to fee ♦; for I was afraid they would 
rather have left the boat at an anchor, fome diftance 
from the fhore, with fome hands in her to guard her; 
and fo we fhould not be able to feize the boat. 

Being on fliore, the firft thing they did, they ran 
all to the other boat ; audit was eafy to fee they were 
under a great furprife to find her ftripped, as above, 
of all that was in her, and a great hole in her bot- 
tom. 

After they had mufed awhile upon this, they fet 
up two or three great fhouts, hallooing with all their 
might, to try if they could make their companions 
hear; but all was to no purpofe; then they came 
all clofe in a ring, and fired a volley of their fmall 
arms, which indeed we heard, and tl^e echoes made 
the woods ring ; but it was all one ; thofe in the 
cave, we were fure, could not hear ; an(J thofe in 
our keeping, though they heard it well enough, yet 
durft give no anfwer to them. 

They 



232 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

They were fo aftoniflied at the.furprife of this, that, 
as they told us afterwards, they refolved to go all on 
board again to their fhip, and let them know there, 
that the men were all murdered, and the long-boat 
ftavcd ; accordingly, they immediately launched the 
^ boat again, and got all of them on board. 

\ The captain was terribly amazed, and even con- 
founded at this, believing they would go on board 
the ftiip again, and fet fail, giving their comrades up 
for loft, and fo he fhould ftill lofe the fhip, which 
he was in hopes we fhould have recovered ; but he 
was quickly as much frighted the other way. 

They had not been long put off with the boat, but 

we perceived them all coming on fhore again ; but 

\, /With this new meafure in their condud:, which, it 

vj^eems, they confulted together upon ; viz. to leave 

three men in the boat, and the reft to go on fhore, 

and go up into the country to look for their fellows. 

This was a great difappointment to us ; for now 
we were at a lofs what to do; for our feizing thofe 
feven men on fhore would be no advantage to us if we 
let the boat efcape, becaufe they would then row 
away to the fhip ; and then the reft of them would 
be fure to weigh, and fet fail, and fo our recovering 
the fliip would be loft. 

However, we had no remedy but to wait and fee 
what the iffue of things might prefent : the feven men 
came on fhore, and the three who remained in the 
boat put her off to a good diftance from the fhore, 
and came to an anchor to wait for them ; fo that 
it was impoffible for us to come at them in the 
boat. 

Thofe 






OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 335 

Thofe that came on fliore kept clofe together, 
marching towards the top of the little hill, under 
which my habitation lay ; and we could fee them 
plainly, though they could not perceive us : we 
could have been very glad they would have come 
nearer to us, fo that we might have fired at them; 
or that they would have gone farther. off, that we 
might have come abroad. 

But when they were come to the brow of the hill, 
where they could fee a great way in the valley and 
woods, which lay towards the north-eaft part, and 
where the ifland lay loweft, they fhouted and hallooed 
till they -were weary ; and not caring, it feems, to 
venture far from the fliore, nor far from one ano- 
ther, they fat down together under a tree, to con-^ 
liderof it : had they thought fit to have gone to deep 
there, as the other party of them had done, they had 
done the job for us; but they were too full of ap- 
prehenfions of danger, to venture to go to fleep, 
though they could not tell what the danger was they 
had to fear neither. 

The captain made a very juft propofal to me upon 
this confultation of theirs; viz. that perhaps they 
would all fire a volley again, to endeavour to make 
their fellows hear, and that we fl^ould all fally upon 
them, juft at the jundture when their pieces were all 
difcharged, and they would certainly yield, and we 
fliould have them without bloodflied. I liked the 
propofal, provided it was done while we were near 
enough to come up to them, before they could load 
their pieces again. 



But 



334 ^IPE ^^^ ADVENTURES 

But this event did not happen, and we lay ftill a 
long time, very irrefolute what courfe to take ; at 
length I told them, there would be nothing -to be 
done in my opinion till night ; and then, if they did 
not return to the boat, perhaps we might find a way 
to get between them and the fhore, and fo might ufe 
fome ftratagem with them in the boat, to get them 
on fliore. 

We waited a great while, though very impatient 
for their removing, and were very uneafy: when, 
after long confultations, we faw them ftart all up, 
and march down toward the fea : it feems, they had 
fuch dreadful apprehenfions upon them of the dan- 
ger of the place, that they refolved to go on board 
the fhip again, give their companions over for loft, 
and fo go on with their intended voyage with the 
fhip. 

As foon as I perceived them go towards the fhore, 
I imagined it to be as it really was ; that they had 
given over their fearch, and were for going back 
again ; and the captain, as fcon as I told him my 
thoughts, was ready to fink at the apprehenfions of 
it ; but I prefently thought of a flratagem to fetch 
them back again, and which anfwered my end to 
a tittle. 

I ordered Friday, and the captain's mate, to go 
over the little creek weftward, towards the place 
where the favages came on fhore when Friday was 
refcued ; and as foon as they came to a little rifing 
ground, at about half a mile's diftance, I bade them 
halloo as loud as they could, and wait till they found 
the feameu heard them; that as foon as ever they 

heard 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 335 

heard the feamen anfwer them, they fliould return it 
again, and then, keeping out of fight, take a round, 
always anfwering when the others hallooed, to draw 
them as far into the ifland, and among the woods, as 
poflible, and then wheel about again to me, by fuch 
ways as I direded. 

They were juft going into the boat, when Friday 
and the mate hallooed, and they prefently heard them> 
and anfwering, run along the fhore weft ward, to- 
wards the voice they heard, when they were pre- 
fently flopped by the creek, where the water being 
up, they could not get over, and called for the 
boat to come up, and fet them over, as indeed I 
expected. 

When they had fet themfelves over, I obferved 
that the boat being gone up a good way into the 
creek, and as it were in an harbour within the land,, 
they took one of the three men out of her to go along 
with them, and left only two in the boat, having 
faftened her to the ftump of a little tree on the 
ihore. 

This was what I wifhed for, and immediately 
leaving Friday and the captain's mate to their bufinefs, 
I took the reft with me, and, crofting the creek out 
of their fight, we furprifed the two men before they 
were aware, one of them lying on fliore, and the 
other being in the boat j the fellow on fliore was be- 
tween fleeping and waking, and going to flart up, the 
captain, who was foremoft, ran in upon him, and 
knocked him down, and then called out to him in the 
boat to yield, or he was a dead man. 

There 



336 LIFE ANf> ADVENTURES? 

There needed very few arguments to perliiade i 
lingle man to yield, when he faw five men upon him^ 
and his comrade knocked down ; befides, this was, 
it feems, one of the three who were not fo hearty in 
the mutiny as the refl of the crew, and therefore was 
eafily perfuaded not only to yield,, but afterwards to 
join very fincerely with us. 

In the mean time, Friday and the captain's mate fa 
well n^anaged their bufmefs with the reft, that they 
drew them, by hallooing and anfwering, from one 
hill to another, and from one wood to another, till 
they not only heartily tired them, but left them where 
they were very fure they could not reach back to the 
boat before it was dark ; and indeed they were 
heartily tired themfelves alfo by the time they came 
back to us. 

We had nothing now to do but to watch for them 
in the dark, and to fall upon them, fo as to' make 
fure work with them. 

It was feveral hours after Friday came back to me 
before they came back to thpir boat ; and we could 
he^r the foremoft of them, long before they came 
quite up, calling to thofe behind to come along ; and 
could alfo hear them anfwer, and complain how lame 
and tired they were, and iiot being able to come any 
fafter, which was very welcome news to us. 

At length they came up to the boat ; but it is im- 
poffible to exprefs their confufion,^ when they found 
the boat faft a-ground in the creek. The tide ebbed 
out, and their two men gone ; we could hear them 
call to one another in a moft lamentable manner, 
telling one another they were gotten into an enchanted 
ifland ; that either there were inhabitants in it, and 

they 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 337 

the^ ihould all be murdered; or elfe there "Were 
devils or fpirits in it, and they fhould be all carried 
away and devoured. 

They hallooed again, ^nd called their two comrades 
by their names a great many times, but no anfwer : 
after fome time, we could fee them, by the little light 
there was, run about wringmg their hands, like men 
in defpair ; and that fometimes they would go and 
lit down in the boat to reft themfelves, then come 
alhore, and walk about again, and fo the fame thing 
over again. 

My men would fain have had me given them leave 
to fall upon them at once in the dark ; but I was 
billing to take them at fome advantage, fo to fpare 
them, and kill as few of them as I could; and 
efpecially I was unwilling to hazard the killing any 
of our men, knowing the other men were very well 
armed: I refolved to v/ait to fee if they did not fe- 
parate ; and therefore, to make fure of them, I drew 
my ambufcade nearer ; and ordered Friday and the 
captain to creep upon their hands and feet as clofe to 
the ground as they could, that they might not be 
difcovered, and get as near them as they could pof- 
fibly, before they offered to fire. 

They had not been long in that pofture, till 
the boatfwain, who was the principal ringleader of 
the mutiny, and had now fhewn himfel'f the moft 
dejefted and difpirited of all the reft, came walking 
towards them with two more of the crew; the captain 
was fo eager, at having the principal rogue fo much 
in his power, that he could hardly have patience to 
let him come fo near as to be fure of him ; for they 
only heard his tongue before : but v^hen they came 

Vol. L Z nearer. 



338 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

nearer, the captain and Friday^ darting up on their 
feet, let fly at them. 

The boatfwain was killed upon the fpot ; the next 
man was (hot in the body, and fell juft by him, though 
he did not die till an hour or two after ; and the third 
run for It. 

At the noife of the fire, I immediately advanced 
with my whole army, which was now eight menj 
viz. myfelf generaliffimo ; Friday my lieutenant, 
general; the captain and his two men, and the 
three prifoners of war, whom he had trufted with arms. 

We came upon them indeed in the dark, fo that 
they could not fee our number ; and I made the man 
they had left in the boat, who was now one of us, to 
call them by name, to try if I could bring them to a 
parley, and fo might perhaps reduce them to terms ; 
which fell out juft as we defired : for indeed it was 
eafy to think, as their condition then was, they would 
be very willing to capitulate •, fo he calls ouc, as loud 
as he could, to one of them, Tom Smithy Tom Smith* 
Tom Smith anfwered immediately. Who's that ! Ro' 
bin/on ! For it feems he knew his voice. The other 
anfwered. Ay, ay j for God's fake, Tom Smithy throw 
down your arms, and yield, or you are all dead men 
this moment. 

Who muft we yield to ? Where are they ? fays 
Smith again. Here they are, fays he j here is our 
captain and fifty men with him, have -been hunting 
you this two hours ; the boatfwain is killed ; Will 
Frye is wounded, and I am a prifoner j and if you 
do not yield, you are all loft. 

Will they give us quarter then ? fays Tom Smithy 
and we will yield. V\\ go and alk, if you promife to 

yield, 



t)F ROBINSON CRUSOE. 339 

yield, {zys Robin/on., So he afked the captain, and 
the captain himfelf then calls out ; You, Smith, you 
know my voice, if you lay down your arms imme- 
diately, and fubmit, you fhall have your lives, all but 
Will Atkins. 

Upon this Will Atkins cried out. For God's iaket 
captain, give me quarter : what have I done ? they" 
have been all as bad as I: (which by the way was not 
true, either; for it feems this Will Atkins was the 
firft man that laid hold of the captain when they firft 
mutined, and ufed him barbaroufly, in tying his 
hands, and giving him injurious language :) how- 
ever, the captain told him he mufl lay down his 
arms at difcretion, and truft to the governor's mer- 
cy, by which he, meant me ; for they all called me 
governor. 

In a word, they all laid down their arms, and 
begged their lives ; and I fent the man that had 
parlied with them, and two more, who bound them 
all ; and then my great army of fifty men, which, 
particularly with thofe three, were all but eight, 
came up and feized upon them all, and upon their 
boat, only that I kept myfelf and one more out of 
fight, for f eafons of ftate. 

Our next work was to repair the boat, and to think 
of feizing the (hip } and as for the captain, now he 
had leifure to parley with them, he expoftulated with 
them upon the villainy of their practices with him, 
and at length, upon the farther wickednefs of their 
defign ; and how certainly it muft bring them to 
mifery and diftrefs in the end, and perhaps to the 
gallows. r 

Zz They 



340 MFE AND ADVENTURES 

They all appeared very penitent, and beggdd h^r J 
for their lives : as for that, he told them they were 
none of his prifoners, but the commander's of the 
ifland ; that they thought they had fet him on fhore 
in a barren uninhabited ifland ; but it had pleafed 
God fo.to diredl them, that the ifland was inhabited, 
^aid that the governor was an Englijhman ; that he 
might hang them all there, if he pleafed ; but as he had 
given them all quarter, he fuppofed he would fend 
them to England^ to be dealt with there as }ufl:ice 
required, except Atkins^ whom he was commanded 
by the governor to advife to prepare for death ; for 
that he would be hanged in the morning. 

Though this was all a fiction of his own, yet it 
had its defired efFeft : Atkins fell upon his knees to 
beg the captain to intercede with the governor for his 
Hfe ; and ail the refl: begged of him for God's fake, 
that they might not be fent to England. 

It now occurred to me, that the time of our deliver- 
ance was com€, and that it would be a mod eafy 
thing to bring thefe fellows in to be hearty in getting 
poflfeflion of the fliip; fo I retired in the dark from 
them, that they might not fee what kind of a gover- 
nor they had, and called the captain to mej when I 
called, as at a good difl:ance, one of the men was 
ordered to fpeak again, and fay to the captain. Cap 
tain, the commander calls for you; and prefently the 
captain replied. Tell his excellency I am juft a com- 
ing. This more perfeftly amufed them; and they 
all believed, that the commander was juft by with 
his fifty men. 

Upon the captain's coming to me, I told, him my 
projeQ: for feizing the fliip, which he liked won- 

derfully 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE^ 34I 

derfully well, and refolved to put it In execution the 
next morning. 

But, in order to execute it with more art, and to 
be fecure of fuccefs, I told him we muft divide the 
prifoners, and that he fhould go and take Atkins ^ and 
two more of the worfl of them, and fend them 
pinioned to the jcave where the others lay : this was 
committed to Friday^ and the two men who came on 
ihore with the captain. 

They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prilon ; 
and it was indeed a difmal place, efpecially to men in 
their condition. 

The others I ordered to my bower, as I called it, 
of which I have given a full defcription ; and as it 
was fenced in, and they pinioned, the place was 
fecure enough, confidering they were upon their be- 
haviour. 

To thefe in the morning I fent the captain, "who 
was to enter into a parley with them ; in a vi^ord, to 
try them, and tell me, whether he thought they 
might be trufted or no, to go on board, andfurprife 
the Ihip ; he talked to them of the injury done him, 
of the condition they were brought to; and that 
though the governor had given them quarter for their 
lives, as to the prefent aftion, yet that if they were 
fent to England^ they would all be hanged in chains, 
to be fure ; but that if they would join in fuch an 
attempt, as to recover the Ihip, he would have the 
governor's engagement for their pardon. 

Any one may guefs how readily fuch a propofal 
would be accepted by men in their condition ; they 
fell down on their knees to the captain, and pro- 

Z 3 mifed 



34* ^IFJ^ AND ADVENTURES 

mifed with the deepeft imprecations, that they would 
be faithful to him to the laft drop, and that they 
Ihould owe their lives to him, and would go with him 
all over the world ; that they would own him for a 
father to them as long as they lived. 

Well, fays the captain, I muft go and tell the go- 
vernor what you fay, and fee what I can do to bring 
him to confent to it : fo he brought me an account 
of the temper he found them in ; and that he verily 
believed they would be faithful. 

However, that we might be very fecure, I told him 
he (houldgoback again, and choofe out five of them, 
and tell them, that they (hould fee that they did not 
want men ; but he would take out thofe five to be his 
affiftants, and that the governor would keep the other 
two, and the three that were fent prifoners to the 
caftle, (my cave) as hoftages, for the fidelity of thofe 
five ; and that if they proved unfaithful in the exe- 
cution, the five hoftages Ihould be hanged in chains 
alive upon the fhore. 

This looked fevere, and convinced them that the 
governor was in earneft ; however, they had no way 
left them but to accept it ; and it was now thebufinefs 
of the prifoners, as much as of the captain, to per. 
fuade the other five to do their duty. 

Our ftrength was now thus ordered for the expedi- 
tion: I. The captain, his mate, and paiTenger. 2. 
Then the two prifoners of the firft gang, to whom, 
having their charaders from the captain, I had given 
their liberty, and trufted them with arms. 3. The 
other two whom I kept till now in my bower 
pinioned j but, upon the captain's motion, had now 

releafed. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 343 

Teleafed. 4. Thefe five releafed at laft ; fo that they 
were twelve in all, befides five we kept prifoners in 
the cave for hoftages. 

I alked the captain if he was willing to^enture with 
thefe hands on board the fhip : for, as for me, and 
my man Friday^ I did not think it was proper for us to 
ftir, having feven men left behind ; and it was em- 
ployment enough for us to keep them afunder, and 
fupply them with viftuals. 

As to the five in the cave, I refolved to keep them 
faft ; but Friday went twice a day to them, to fupply 
them with neceffaries; and I made the other two 
carry provifions to a certain diftance, where Friday 
was to take it. 

When I fhewed myfelf to the two hoftages, it was 
with the captain, who told them, I was the perfon 
the governor had ordered to look after them, and 
that it was the governor's pleafure that they fhould 
not ftir any where but by my direftion ; that if they 
did, they fhould be fetched into the caftle, and be 
laid in irons ; fo that as we never fuffered them to fee 
me as governor, fo I now appeared as another perfon, 
and fpoke of the governor, the garrifon, the caftle, 
and the like, upon all occafions. 

The captain now had no difficulty before him, but 
to furnifh his two boats, ftop the breach of one, and 
man them : he made his pafTenger captain of one, 
with four other men ; and himfelf, and his mate, 
and five more, went in the other : and they con- 
trived their bufmefs very well ; for they came up to 
the fhip about midnight : as foon as they came within 
call of the fhip, he made Robin/on hail them, and 
Z4 tell 



34^ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

He perceived the furprifc, and immediately pulled 
a bottle out of his pocket, and gave me a dram of 
cordial, which he had brought on purpofe for me : 
after I drank it, I fat down upon the ground, and 
though it brought me to myfelf, yet it was a good 
while before I could fpeak a word to him. 

All this while the poor man was in as great an ec- 
ftafy as I, only not under any furprife, as I was ; 
and he faid a thoufand kind tender things to me, to 
compofe and bring me to myfelf ; but fuch was the 
flood of joy in my bread, that it put all my fpirits 
into confufion; at laft it broke into tears, and in a 
little while after I recovered my fpeech. 

Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my 
deliverer ; and we rejoiced together : I told him, I 
looked upon him as a man fent from Heaven to de- 
liver me, and that the whole tranfaftion feemed to 
be a chain of wonders ; that fuch things as thefe 
were the teftimonies we had of a fecret hand of Pro- 
vidence governing the world, and an evidence, that 
the eyes of an infinite power could fearch into the 
remoteft cojner of the world, and fend help to the 
miferable whenever he pleafed. 

I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulnefs to 
Heaven .; and what heart could forbear to blefs him, 
who had not only in a miraculous manner provided 
for one in fuch a wildernefs, and in fuch a defolate 
condition, but from whom every deliverance mud 
always be acknowledged to proceed ! 

When we had talked a while, the captain told me, 
he had brought me fome little refreftiments, fuch as 
the fhip afforded, and ftich as the wretches, who had 
been fo long his matters, had not plundered him of: 

upon 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 34*^ 

upon this he called aloud to the boat, and bids his 
men bring the things afhore that were for the gover- 
nor J and indeed it was a prefent, as if I had been 
one, not that I wa^ to be carried along with them, 
but as if I had been to dwell upon the illand ftill, 
and they were to go without me. 

Firft, he had brought me a cafe of bottles full of 
excellent cordial waters, fix large bottles of Ma- 
deira wine; the bottles held two quarts a piece ; two 
pounds of excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces 
of the lhip*s beef, and fix pieces of pork, with a bag 
of peas, and about an hundred weight of bifcuit. 

He brought me alfo a box of fugar, a box of flour, 
a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice, 
and abundance of other things : but befides thefe, 
and what was a thoufand times more ufeful to me, 
he brought me fix clean new fliirts, fix very good 
neckcloths, two pair of gloves, one pairof fhoes, an 
hat, and one pair of (lockings, and a very good fuit 
of clothes of his own, which had been iX^orn but very 
little : in a word, he clothed me from head to foot. 

It was a very kind and agreeable prefent, as any 
one may imagine, to one in my circumftances ; but 
never was any thing in the world of that kind fo un- 
pleafant, aukward, and uneafy, as it was to me to 
wear fuch clothes at their firft putting on. 

After thefe ceremonies paffed, and after all his good 
things were brought into my little apartment, we be- 
gan to confult what was to be done with the prifoners 
we had; for it was worth confidering whether we 
might venture to take them away with us or no, ef- 
pecially two of them, whom we knew to be incorrigi- 
ble and refraftory to the laft degree j and the captain 

faid. 



348 I-^FE AND ADVENTURES 

faid, he knew they were fuch rogues, that there was 
no obliging them ; and if he did carry them away, 
it muft be in irons, as malefaftors, to be delivered 
over to juftice at the firft Englijh colony he could 
come at ; and I found that the captain himfelf was 
very anxious about it. 

Upon this, I told him, that if he defired it, I durft 
undertake to bring the two men he fpoke of, to make 
it their own requefl that he Ihould leave them upon 
the ifland : I fliould be very glad of that, fays the 
captain, with all my heart. 

Well, faid I, I will fend for them, and talk with 
them for you : fo I caufed Friday and the two hof. 
tages, for they were now difcharged, their com- 
rades having performed their promife; I fay, I caufed 
them to go to the cave, and bring up the five men, 
pinioned as they were, to the bower, and keep thera 
there till I came. 

After fome time, I came thither dreffed in my new 
habit, and now I was called governor again. Being 
all met, and the captain with me, I caufed the men 
to be brought before me, and I told them, I had had 
a full account of their villainous behaviour to the 
captain, and how they had run away with the ihip, 
and were preparing to commit farther robberies ; but 
that Providence had enfnared them in their own ways, 
and that they were fallen into the pit which they had 
digged for others. 

I let them know, that by my direftion the fhip had 
httn feized, that fhe lay now in the road, and they 
might fee by and by, that their new captain had re- 
ceived the reward of his villainy ; for that they might 
fee him hanging at the yard-arm. 

That 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 349 

■JTiat as to them, I wanted to know what they had 
to fay, why I fhould not execute them as pirates ta- 
ken in the fafl:, as by my commiffion they could not 
doubt I had authority to do. 

One of them anfwered in the name of the reft, 
that they had nothing to fay but this. That when 
they were taken, the captain promifed them their 
lives, and they humbly implored my mercy : but I 
told them I knew not what mercy to Ihew them ; 
for, as for myfelf, I had refolved to quit the ifland 
with all my men, and had taken paffage with the, 
c;aptain to go for England:- and as for the captain, he 
could not carry them to England^ other than as pri- 
foners in irons to be tried for mutiny, and running 
away with the fliip ; the confequence of which, they 
muft needs know, would be the gallows ; fo that 1 
could not tell which was beft for them, unlefs they 
had a mind to take their fate in the ifland ; if they de- 
fired that, I did not care, as I had liberty to leave 
it ; I had fome inclination to give them their lives, 
if they thought they could (hift on fliore. They feem- 
ed very thankful for it; faid they would much rather 
venture to ftay there, than to be carried to England 
to be hanged ; fo I left it on that iflue. 

However, the captain feemed to make fome difficul- 
ty of it, as if he durft not leave them there : upon this 
I feemed to be a little angry with the captain, and 
told him, that they were my prifoners, not his ; and 
that feeing I had offered them fo much favour, 
would be as good as my word ; and that if he did 
not think fit to confent to it, I would fet them at 
liberty as I found them ; and if he did not like that, 
he might take them again, if he could catch them. 

Upoa 



350 JmIFE and adventures 

Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I ac- 
cordingly fet them at liberty, and bade them retire 
into the woods, to the place whence they came, and 
I would leave them fome fire arms, fome ammunition, 
and fome direftions how they fhould live very well, 
if they thought fit. 

Upon this, I prepared to go on board the fhip ; 
but told the captain, that I would ftay that night to 
prepare my things ; and defired him to go on board 
in the mean time, and keep all right in the fhip, and 
fend the boat on fhore the next day for mej order- 
ing him in the mean time, to caufe the new captain 
who was killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that 
thefe men might fee him. 

When the captain was gone,^ I fent for the men 
up to me to my apartment, and entered ferioufly 
into difcourfe with them of their circumflances : I 
told them, I thought they had made a right choice ; 
that if the captain carried them away, they would cer- 
tainly be hanged : I fhewed them their captain hang- 
ing at the yard-arm of the fhip, and told them they 
had nothing lefs to exped. 

When they had all declared their willingnefs to 
ftay, I then told them, I would let them into the 
flory of my living there, and put them into the way 
of making it eafy to them : accordingly I gave them 
the whole hiflory of the place, and of my coming to 
it; fhewed them my fortifications, the way I made 
my bread, planted my corn, cured my grapes ; and, 
in a word, all that was neceffary to make them eafy. 
I told them the flory of the fixteen Spaniards that 
were to be expefted j for whom I left a letter, and 

made 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 351 

made them promife to treat them in common with 
themfelves. 

I left them my fire-arms; viz. five mufquets, 
three fowling-pieces, and three fwords : I had about 
a barrel of powder left j for sifter the firft year or two 
I ufed but little, and wafted none : I gave them a 
defcription of the way I managed the goats, and di- 
reftions to milk and fatten them, to make both but* 
ter and cheefe. 

In a word, I gave them every part of my own ftory j 
and I told them, I would prevail with the captain to 
leave them two barrels of gunpowder more, and 
fome garden-feed, which I told them I would have 
been very glad of; alfo I gave them the bag of peas 
which the captain had brought me to eat, and bade 
them be fure to fow and increafe them. 

Having done all this, I left them the next day, 
and went on board the (hip : we prepared immediate- 
ly to fail, but did not weigh that night : the next 
morning early, two of the five men came fwimming 
to the fliip's fide, and making a moft lamentable com- 
plaint of the other three, begged to be taken into 
the fliip, for God's fake, for they fliould be murder- 
ed ; and begged the captain to take them on board 
though he hanged them immediately. 

Upon this the captain pretended to have no power 
without me ; but after fome difficulty, and after their 
folemn promifes of amendment, they were taken on 
board, and were fome time after foundly whipped 
and pickled j after which they proved very honeft and 
quiet fellows. 

Some time after this, I went with the boat on 
ihore, the tide being up, with the things promifed to 

the 



35^ JLIFE AND ADVENTURES 

the men, to which the captain, at my interceflion, 
caufed their chefts and clothes to be added, which 
they took, and were very thankful for : I alfo en- 
couraged them, by telling them, that if it lay in my 
way to fend a veflel to take them in, I would not 
forget them. 

When I took leave of this ifland, I carried on 
board for reliques the great goat's Ikin cap I had 
made, my umbrella, and one of my parrots ; alfo I 
forgot not to take the money I formerly mentioned, 
which had lain by me fo long ufelefs that it was 
grown rufty, or tarnilhed, and could hardly pafs for 
filver, till it had been a little rubbed and handled ; 
and alfo the money I found in the wreck of the Spa^ 
nijlo Ihip. 

And thus I left the ifland the nineteenth of Decem- 
ber, as I found by the fliip's account, in the year 
1686, after I had been upon it eight and twenty 
years, two months, and nineteen days ; being deli- 
vered from the fecond captivity the fame day of the 
month that I firfl made my efcape in the Barco-longOy 
from among the Moors of Sallee* 

In this vefTel, after a long voyage, I arrived in 
England the eleventh of June, in the year 1687, 
having been thirty and five years abfent. 

When I came to England^ I was a perfect ftranger 
to all the world, as if I had never been known there : 
my benefactor, and faithful fteward, whom I had 
left in truft with my money; was alive, but had had 
great misfortunes in the world, was become a widow 
the fecond time, and very low in the world : I made 
her eafy as to what flie owed me, afluring her, I 
would give her no trouble ; but on the contrary, in 
gratitude to her former care and faithfulnefs to me, 

I relieved 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* 355 

I ^relieved her as my little ftock would afford, which 
at that time would indeed allow me to do but little 
for her : but I affured her, I would never forget her 
former kindnefs to me ; nor did I forget her, when 
I had fufficient to help her ; as fliall be obferved in 
its place* 

I went down afterwards into Torkjhire ; but my 
father was dead, and my toother, and all the family 
cxtinft ; except that I found two fillers, and two 
of the children of one of my brothers: and as I 
had been long ago given over for dead, there had 
been no provifion made for me, fo that, in a word^ 
I found nothing to relieve or aflifl me ; and that 
little money I had, would not do fo much for me as 
to fettling in the world. 

I met with one piece of gratitude indeed, which 
I did not expeft ; and this was, that the mafter of 
the fhip, whom I had fo happily delivered, and by 
the fame means faved the fhip and cargo, having 
given a very handfome account to the owners, of the 
manner how I had faved the lives of the men, and 
the fhip, they invited me to meet them, and fome 
other merchants concerned, and all together made 
me a very handfome compliment upon that fubjeft, 
and a prefent of almoft two hundred pounds fler- 
ling. 

But after making feveral reflexions upon the cir- 
cumftances of my life, and how little way this would 
go towards fettling me in the world, I refolved to go 
to Lijborij and fee if I might not come by fome in. 
formation of the ftate of my plantation in the Bra-^ 
ftlsj and what was become of my partner, who, I 

Vol, I. A a had 



354 ^J^^ AND ADVENTURES 

had reafon to fuppofe, had fome years now given 
me over for dead. 

With this view I took (hipping for Lijbon^ where 
I arrived m April following; my man Friday ^z^ 
companying me very honeftly in all thefe iramblings, 
and proving a moft faithful fervant upon all occa- 
fions. 

When I came to Lijbon^ I found out, :by enquiry, 
and to my particular fatisfaftion, my old friend, .the 
captain of the Ihip, whofirfl: took me up at fea, oflF 
the fhore of Africa : he was now grown old, and 
had left off the Tea, having put his fon, who was far 
from a young man, into his fhip ; and who ftill ufed 
the J5r^/ trade. The old man did not know, me,^^ 
and, indeed, I hardly knew him ; but I foon brought 
myfelf to his remembrance, when I told him who I 
was. • 

After fome paffionate expreiEons of our old ac- 
quaintance, I enquired, you may be fure, after my 
plantation, and my partner : the old man told me, 
he had not been in the Braftls for about nine years ; 
but that he could . a'ifure me, that when he came' 
-away, my partner was living ; but the truftees, whom. 
- i had joined with him, to take cognizance of my 
part, were both dead ; that, however, he believed 
that I would have a very good account of the im- 
provement of the plantation; for that, upon the 
general belief of my being call away and drowned, 
my ffuftees had given in the account of the produce 
of njiy part of the plantation, to the ^procurator 
fifcal; who had appropriated.it, in cafe I never 
came to claim it, one third to the King, and two- 
thirds to the monaftery of St. Augti/iine^ tobeex«» 

pended 



OF kOBINSON CRUSOE. 355 

pended for the benefit of the poor^ and for the con- 
verfion of the Indians to the Catholic faith ; but that 
if I appeared, or any one for me, to claim the in- 
heritance, it would be reftored ; only that the im- 
provement, or annual produftion, being diftributed 
to chatitable ufes, could not be reftored ; but he 
affured me, that the fteward of the king's revenue 
(from lands) and the provedore, or fteward of the 
monaftery, had taken great care all along, that the 
incumbent, that is to fay, my partner, gave every 
year a faithful account of the produce, of which 
they deceived duly my moiety. 

I alked him, if he knew to what height of im- 
provement he had brought the plantation : and whe- 
ther he thought it might be worth looking after ; or 
whether, on niy going thither, I ftiould meet with 
no obftrudion to my pofleffing my juft right in the 
moiety. 

He told me, he could not tell exactly to what de- 
gree the plantation was improved ; but this he knew, 
that my partner was growing exceeding rich upon 
the enjoying but one half of it; and that, to the 
beft of his remembrance, he had heard, that the king's 
third of my part, which was, it feems, granted away 
to fome other monaftr y, or religious houfe, amounted 
to above two hundred moidores a year; that, as to 
my being reftored to a quiet pofleflion of it, there 
was no queftion to be made of that, my partner be- 
ing alive to witnefs my title, and my name being alfo 
inrolled in the regifter of the country. Alfo he told 
me, that ihe furvivors of my two truftees were very 
fair, honeft people, and very wealthy, and he be- 
lieved I would not only have their affiftance for put- 
A a 2 ti;ig 



35^ JLIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ting me in poffeflion, but would find a very confide- 
rable fum of money in their hands for my account, 
being the produce of the farm, while their fathers 
held the truft, and before it was given up, as above, 
which, as he remembered, was about twelve years. 

I fliewed myfelf a little concerned and uneafy at 
this account, and enquired of the old captain, how 
it came to pafs, that the truftees fhould thus difpofe 
of my effefts, when he knew that I had made my 
will, and had made him, the Portuguefe captain, 
my univerfal heir, &c. 

He told me, that was true ; but that, as tliere was 
no proof of my being dead, he could not afl: as exe- 
cutor, until fome certain account fhould come of my 
death ; and that, befides he was not willing to inter- 
meddle with a thing fo remote : that it was true, he 
had regiftered my will, and put in his claim ; and 
could he have given any account of my being dead 
or alive, he would have aQ;ed by procuration, and 
taken poffeflion of the Ingenio (fo they called the 
fugar-houfe) and had given his fon, who was aow 
at the Braftlsy order to do it. 

But, (fays the old man) I have one piece of news 
to tell you, which perhaps may not be fo acceptable 
to you as the reft ; and that is, that believing you 
were loft, and all the world believing fo alfo, your 
partner and truftees did offer to account ta me in 
your name, for fix or eight of the firft years of pro- 
fit, which I received ; but there being at that time, 
fays he, great dift)urfements for increafing the works, 
building an ingenio^ and buying flaves, it did not 
amount to near fo much as afterwards it produced : 
however, fays the old man, I Ihall give you a true 

account 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE^ ' 3^7 

account of what I have received in all, and how I 
have difpofed of it. 

After a few days farther conference with this an- 
tient friend, he brought me an account of the fix 
firft years income of my plantation, figned by my 
partner, and the merchant's truftees, being always 
delivered in goods ; viz. tobacco in roll, and fugar 
in chefts, befides rum, molaffes, &c. which is the 
confequence of a fugar-work ; and I found by this 
account, that every year the income confiderably 
increafed : but, as above, the difburfement being 
large, the fum at firft was fmall : however, the old 
man let me fee, that he was debtor to me 470 moi- 
dores of gold, befides 60 chefts of fugar, and 15 
double rolls of tobacco, which were loft in his fliip, 
he having been fhipwrecked coming home to Lijbony 
about eleven years after my leaving tlie place. 

The good man then began to complain of his 
•misfortunes, and how he had been obliged to make 
ufe of my money to recover his loffes, and buy him 
a Ihare in a new Ihip ; however, my old friend, fays 
he, you fhall not want a fupply in your neceflity ; 
^nd as foon as my fon returns, you fhall be fully 
fatisfied. 

Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives 
me two hucidred Portugal moidores in gold j and 
. giving me the writings of his title to the fhip which 
his fon was gone to the Brqfils in, of which he was 
a quarter part owner, and his fon another, he puts 
them both in my hands^for fecurity pf the reft. 

I was too much moved with the honefty and kind- 
nefs of the poor man, to be able to bear this ; and 
wraembering what he had done for me, how he had 

Aaj taken 



358 i-IPfi AND ADVENTURES 

taken me up at fea, and how generoufly he had trfed 
me on all occafions, and particularly how fincere a 
frierfd he was now to me, I could hardly refrain 
weeping at what he faid to me : Therefore, firft I 
^Skod him if his circumflances admitted him to fpare 
fo much money at that time, and if it would not 
ftraiten him ? He told me he could not fay but it 
might ftraiten him a little ; but, however, it was my 
money, and I might want it more than he. 

Every thing the good nian fai J was full of affec- 
tion, and I could hardly refrain from tears while he 
fpoke. In fliort, I took one hundred of the moi- 
dores, and called for a pen and ink to give him a 
receipt for them ; theli I returned him the reft, and 
told him, if ever I had poffeffion of the plantation, 
I would return the other to him alfo, as indeed I 
afterwards did ; and that, as to the bill of lale of his 
part in his fon's ftiip, I would not take it by any 
means ; but that if I wanted the money, I found he 
was honeft enough to pay me; and if I did not, 
but came to receive what he gave me reafon to ex- 
peQ:, I would never have a penny more from him. 

When this was paffed, the old man began to aik 
me if he Ihould put me in a method to make my 
claim to my plantation. I told him, I thought to 
go over to it myfelf. He faid, I might do fo if I 
pleafed ; but that if I did not, there were waVs 
enough to fecure my right, and immediately to ap- 
propriate the profits to my ufe ; and as there were 
Ihips in the river of Li/bon, juft ready to go away 
to Brafilj he made me enter my name in a public 
regifter, with his affidavit, affirming upon oath that 
I was alive, and that I was the fame perfon who 
_ took 



OP ROBINSON CRUSOE* 359 

took up. the land for the planting the faid plantation 
atfirft- 

This being regularly attefted by a notary, and a 
procuration affixed, he direfted me to fend it with a 
letter of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaint- 
ance at the place; and then propofed my flaying 
with him till an account came of the return. 

Nev«- any thing was more honourable than the 
proceedings upon this procuration ; for in lefs than 
feven months I received a large packet from the fur- 
vivors of my truftees, the merchants, on whofe ac- 
count I went to fea, in which were the following par- 
ticular letter^ and papers inclofed. 

Firft, There was the account current of the pro- 
duce of my farm, or plantation, from the year when 
their fathers had balanced with my old Portugal cap- 
tain, being for fix years; the balance appeared to 
be i 174 moidores in my favour. 

Secondly^ There was the account of four years 
more while they kept the effeds in their hands, be- 
fore the government claimed the adminiftration, as 
being the eflfefts of a perfon not to be found, which 
they call Civil Death ; and the balance of this, the 
value cf the plantation increafing, amounted to crui- 
ladoes, which made 3241 moidores. 

Thirdly, There was the prior of the Augu/lines 
account, who had received the profits for above four- 
teen years ; but not being able to account for what 
was difpofed to the hofpital, very honeftly declared 
he had 872 moidores not diftributed, which he ac- 
knowledged to my account. As to the king's part, 
that refunded nothing. 

A a 4 'W^sx^ 



360 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

There was alfo a letter of my partner's, congra- 
tulating me very affeftionately upon my being alive; 
giving me an account how the eftate was improved, 
and what it produced a year, with a particular of 
the number of fquares, or acres, that it contained; 
how planted, how many flaves there were upon it ; 
and, making two and twenty croffes for bleflings, 
told me he had faid fo many Ave Marians to thank 
the Bleffid Virgin that I was alive ; inviting me very 
paffionately to come over and take poffeflion of my 
own, and in the mean time to give him orders to 
whom he fhould deliver my effeds, if I did not come 
myfelf; concluding with an hearty tender of his 
friendfhip, and that of his family ; and fent me, as 
a prefent, feven fine leopards fkins, which he had, it 
Teems, received from Africa by fome other fhip which 
he had fent thither, and who, it feems, had made a 
better voyage than I. He fent me alfo five chefts of 
excellent fweetmeats, and an hundred pieces of gold 
uncoined, not quite fo large as moidores. 

By the fame fleet my merchant-truflees fhipped 
me 1 200 chefts of fugar, 800 rolls of tobacco, and 
the reft of the whole account in gold. 

I might well fay now, indeed, that the latter end 
of Job was better than the beginning : It is impofli- 
ble to exprefs the flutterings of my very heart, when 
I looked over thefe letters, and fefpecially when I 
found all my wealth about me ; for as the Bra/il 
fliips come all in fleets, the fame fliips which brought 
my letters brought my goods ; and .the effeds were 
fafe in the Tagus before the letter came to my hand : 
In a word, I turned pale, and grew fick j and had 

not 



or KOBINSOK CRUSOE.^ 361 

not the old man ran and fetched me a cordial, I be* 
lieve the fudden furprife of joy had overfet nature, 
and I had died upon the fpot. 

Nay, after that, I continued very ill, and was fo 
fome hours, till a phyfician being fent for, and fome- 
thing of the real caufe of my illnefs being known, 
he ordered me to be let blood, after which I had re- 
lief, and grew well; but I verily believe, if it had 
not been eafed by the vent given in that manner to 
the fpirits, I fhould have died. 

I was now mailer all on a fudden, of above 50,000!. 
fterling in money, and had an eftate, as I might 
well call it, in the Braftls^ of above a thoufand 
pounds a year, as fure as an eftate of lands in Eng^ 
land ; and, in a word, I was in a condition which 
I fcarce knew how to underftand, or how to compofe 
myfelf for the enjoyment of. 

The firft thing I did was to recompenfe my ori- 
ginal benefaclor, my good old captain, who had 
been firft charitable to me in my diftrefs, kind to me 
in the beginning, and honeft to me at the end : I 
fliewed him all that was fent me ; I told him that, 
next to the providence of heaven, which difpofes 
all things, it was owing to him ; and that it now lay 
on me to reward him, which I would do an hundred 
fold : So I firft returned to him the hundred moi- 
dores I had received of him ; then I fent for a notary, 
and caufed him to draw up a general releafe or dit 
charge for the 470 moidores, which he had acknow- 
ledged he owed me, in the fulleft and firmeft manner 
poffible ; after which I caufed a procuration to be 
drawn, empowering him to be my receiver of the 
annual profits of my plantation, and appointing mv 

part 



^62 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

partner to account to him, and make the returns by 
the ufual fleets to him in my name ; and a: claufe in 
the end, being a grant of loo moidores a year to 
him during his life, out of the eflfefts ; and 50 moi^ 
dores a year to his fon after him, for his life : And 
thus I requited my old man. 

I was now to jconfider which way to fteer my 
courfe next, and what to do with the ellate that 
Providence had thus put into my hands; and, in* 
deed, I had more care upon my head now than I 
had<in my filent (late of life in the ifland, where I 
wanted nothing but what I had, and had nothing 
but what I wanted; whereas I had now a great 
charge upon me, and my bufmefs was how to fecure 
it : I had never a cave to hide my money in, or a place 
where it might lie without lock or key, till it grew 
mouldy and tarnifli^d before any body would med- 
dle with it : On the contrary, I knew not where to put 
it, or whom to truft with it ; my old patron, the cap- 
tain, indeed, was honeft, and that was the only re- 
fuge I had, - 

In the next place, my intereft in the Brq/ilsfeemed 
to fummon me thither ; but now I could not tell 
how to think of going thither till! had fettled my 
aflfairs, and left my eSeSts in fome fafe hands behind 
me. At firft I thought of my old friend the widow, 
who, I knew, was honeft, and would be juft to me; 
but then fhe was in years, and but poor, and, for 
aught I knew, might be in debt ; fo that, in a word, 
I had no way but to go back to England myfelf, and 
take my effefts with me. 

I was fome months, however, before I refolved 
upon this J and therefore as I had rewarded the old 

captain 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOt. ^6^ 

captain fully, and to fatisfaftion, who had been my 
former benefaftor, fo I began to think of my poor 
widow, whofe hulband had been my firft benefaftor, 
and flie, while it was in her power, my faithful ftew- 
ard and inftruftor: So the firft thing I did, I got a 
merchant in Lijbon to write to his correfpondent in 
London^ not only to pay a bill, but to go find her 
out, and carry her in money an hundred pounds from 
me, and to talk with her, and comfort her in her 
poverty, by telling her fhe ftiould, if I lived, have a 
farther fupply : At the fame time I Tent my^ two 
fifters in the country, each of them an hundred 
pounds, th^y being, though not in want, yet not in 
very good circumftances ; one having been married, 
and left a widow ; and the other having an hufband 
not fo kind to her as he fhould be. 

But among all my relations or acquaintances, I 
could not yet pitch upon one to whom I durft com- 
mit the grofs of my ftock, that I might go away. to 
the Brq/ilsj and leave things fafe behind me ; and 
this greatly perplexed me. 

I had once a mind to have gone to the Braftlsj 
and have fettled myfelf there, for I was, as it were, 
naturalized to the place j but I had fome little fcru- 
ple in my mind about religion,- which infenfibly 
drew me back, of which I fhall fay more prefently. 
However, it was not religion that kept me from go- 
ing thither for the prefent ; and as I had made no 
fcruple of being openly of the religion of the coun- 
try, all the while I was among them^ fo neither did 
I yet ; only that now and then having of late thought 
liiore of it than formerly, when I began to think 



364 I-IFE AND ADVENTURES 

of living and dying among them, I began to regret 
my having profeffed myfelf a Papift, and thought it 
might not be the beft religion to die in. 

But, as I have faid, this was not the main thing 
that kept me from going to the Brajilsy but that really 
I did not know with whom to leave my effects behind 
me ; fo I refolved at laft to go to England with 
them, where, if I arrived, I concluded I fhould make 
fome acquaintance, or find fome relations^ that would 
be faithful to me ; and accordingly I prepared to go 
for England with all my wealth. 

In order to prepare things for my going home, I 
firft, (the Brafd fleet being juft going away) refolved 
to give anfwers fuitable to the juft and fafthful ac- 
count of things I had from thenc^ ; and firft to the 
prior of St. Augujiine^ I wrote a letter full of thanks 
for his juft dealings, and the offer of the 872 moi- 
dores, which was undifpofed of, which I defired might 
be given ; 500 to the monaftry ; and 372 to the poor, 
as the prior fhould dired, defiring the good Padre's 
prayers for me, and the like. 

I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two truftees, 
with all the acknowledgment that fo much juftice 
and horiefty called for ; as for fending them any 
prefent, they were far above having any occafion 
of it. 

Laftly, I wrote to ihy partner, acknowledging his 
induftry in the improving the plantation, and his in- 
tegrity in increafing the ftock of the works, giving 
him inftrudtions for his future government of my 
part according to the powers I had left with my old 
patron, to whom I defired him to fend whatever be^ 

came 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ^6$ 

came due to me, till he fhould hear from me more 
particularly : afluring him, that it was my intention, 
not only to come to him, but to fettle myfelf there 
for the remainder of my life. To this I added a very 
handfome prefent of fome Italian filks for his wife 
and two daughters, for fuch the captain's fon in- 
formed me he had ; with two pieces of fine Englijh 
broad-cloath, the beft I could get in Lijbon^ five 
pieces of black bays, and fome Flanders lace of a good 
value. 

Having thus fettled my affairs, fold my cargo, and 
turned all my effefts into good bills of exchange, 
my next difficulty was, which way to go to England : 
I had been accuftomed enough to the fea, and yet I 
had a ftrange averfion to go to England by fea at 
that time ; and though I could give no reafon for it, 
yet the difficulty increafed upon me fo much, that 
though I had once fhipped my baggage in order to 
go, yet I altered my mind, and that not once, but 
two or three times. 

It is true, I had been very unfortunate by fea, and 
this might be one of the reafons : But let no man 
flight the ftrong impulfes of his own thoughts in 
cafes of fuch moment. Two of the fhips which I 
had fmgled out to go in, I mean more particularly 
fingled out than any other, that is to fay, fo as in one 
of them to put my things on board, and in the other 
to have agreed with the captain ; I fay, two of thefe 
fliips mifcarried, viz. one was taken by the AlgC'^ 
rinesj and the other was caft away on the Start, near 
Torbajj and all the people drowned except three ; 

fo 



366 MFE AND ADVENTURES 

fo that in either of thofe veffels I had been made nu«* 
fcrable, and in which moft, it was hard to fay. 

Having being thus harraffed in my thoughts, my 
old pilot, to whom I communicated every thing, 
preffed me earneftly not to go to fea; but either to 
go by land to the Groyne^ znA crofs over the Bay of 
Bifcay to Rochelle^ from whence it was but an eafy 
aud fafe journey by land to Faris^ and fo to Calais and 
Dover ; or to go up to Madrid^ and fo all the way 
by land through France. 

In a word, I was fo prepofFeffed againft my going 
by fea at all, except from Calais to Dover ^ that I re-*^ 
folved to travel all the way by land; which, as I was 
not in hafte, and did not value the charge, was by 
much the pleafanter way ; and to make it more fo, 
my old captain brought an jF«^///Z> gentleman, the 
fon of a merchant in Lijbon^ who was willing to 
travel with me ; after which, we picked up two who 
were Englijlo^ and merchants alfo, and two young 
P(9r/^/^«^ gentlemen, the laft going to FarisonXyi 
fo that we were in all fix of us, and five fervants, 
the two merchants, and the two Fortuguefe^ con- 
tenting themfelves with one fervant between two, to 
fave the charge; and as for me I got an Englijh 
failor to travel with me as a fervant, befides my man 
Friday^ who was too much a ftranger to be capable 
of fupplying the place of a fervant upon the road. 

In this manner I fet out for Lijbon ■: and our com- 
pany being all very well mounted and armed, we 
made a little troop, whereof they did me the honour 
to call me captain, as well becaufe I was the oldeft 

man, 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 367 

man, as becaufe I had two fervants, and indeed was 
the original of the whole journey. 

As I have troubled you with none of my fea jour- 
nals, fo ihall I trouble you with none of my land 
journals : But fome adventures that happened to usja 
this tedious and difficult journey, I mud not omit. 

When we came to Madrid^ we, being all of us 
ftrangers to Spain^ were willing to ftay fome time to 
fee the court of S^^/», and to fee what was worth 
obferving ; but it being the latter part of the fum^ 
mer, we haftened away, and fet out from Madrid 
about the midftle of October : But when we came to 
the edge of Navarre^ we were alarmed at feveral 
towns on the way, with an account that fo much 
fnow was fallen on- the French fide of the mountains^ 
that feveral travellers were obliged to come back to 
Pampeluna^ 2Ster haying attempted, at an extreme 
hazard, to pafs on. 

When we came to Pampeluna itfelf, we found it 
fo indeed ; and to me that had b^en always ufed to 
an hot climate, and indeed to countries where we 
could fcarce bear any clothes on, the cold was in- 
fufferable ; nor, indeed, was it more painful than it 
was furprifing, to come but ten days before out of 
the Old Cq/iile J Mffhere f he weather was not only warm, 
but very hot, and immediately to feel a wind from 
the Fyrenean niountains, fo very keen, fo feverely 
cold, as to be intolerable, and to endanger benumb- 
ing and perifliing of our fingers and toes, was very 
ftrange. 

Poor Friday was really frighted when he faw the 
mountains all covered with fnow, and felt cold wea- 
ther. 



368 LIFE AND ADVEKTURfcS 

ther, which he had never feen or felt before in hi^ 
life. 

To mend the matter, after we came to Pampeluna^ 
it continued fnowing with fo much violence, and fa 
long, that the people faid, winter was come before 
its time ; and the roads, which were difficult before, 
were now quite impaflable : in a word, the fnow lay 
infome places too thick for us to travel; and being 
not hard frozen, as is the cafe in northern countries, 
there was no going without being in danger of being 
buried alive every ftep. We (laid no lefs than twenty 
days at Pampeluna ; when (feeing the winter coming 
on, and no likelihood of its being better, for it was 
the fevered winter all over Europe that had been 
known in many years) I propofed that we fhould all 
go away to Fontarabia^ and there take Ihipping for 
Bourdeauxy which was a very little voyage. 

But while we were confidering this, there came in 
four French gentlemen, who, having been flopped 
on the French fide of the paffes, as we were on the 
Spanijhj had found out a guide, who traverfing the 
country near the head of Languedocy had brought 
them over the mountains by fuch ways, that they 
were not much incommoded with the fnow ; and 
where they met with fiiow in any quantity, they faid 
it was frozen hard enough to bear them and their 
horfes. 

' We fent for this guide, who told us, he would 
undertake to carry us the fame way, with no hazard 
from the fnow, provided we were armed fufficiently 
to protedl us from wild beafts ; for he faid, upon 
thefe great fnows, it was frequent for fome 

wolves 



OP ROBINSON CRUSOr, 369 

>volves to fliew themfelves at the foot of the moun- 
tains, being made ravenous for want of food, the 
ground being covered with fnow. We told him we 
were well enough prepared for fuch creatures as they 
were, if he -would infure us from a kind of two- 
legged wolves, which we were told we were in moft 
danger from, efpecially on the French fide of the 
mountains* 

He fatisfied us there was no danger of that kind 
in the way that we were to go : fo we readily agreed 
to follow him : as did alfo twelve other gentlemen, 
with their fervants, fome French^ fome Spanijh^ who, 
as I faid, had attempted to go, and were obliged to 
come back again. 

Accordingly we all fet out from Pampeluna^ with 
our guide, on the fifteenth of November ; and in- 
deed, I was furprifed, when, inftead of going for- 
ward, he came direftly back with us, on the fame 
road that we came from Madrid^ above twenty 
miles J when having pafled two rivers, and come 
into the plain country, we found ourfelves in a warm 
climate again, where the country was pleafant, and 
no fnow to be feen j but on a fudden, turning to the 
left, he approached the mountains another way ; and 
though it is true, the hills and the precipices looked 
dreadfully, yet he made fo many tours, fuch meanders, 
and led us by fuch winding ways, we infenfibly paffed 
the height of the mountains, without being much 
incumbered with the fnow ; and all on a fudden he 
fhewed us the pleafant fruitful provinces of Langue^ 
doc and Gafcoigne^ all green and flourifliing j though 

Vol, L B b indeed 



370 LIFE AND ADVEKTURBS 

indeed they were at a great diftance, and we had 
fome rough way to pafs yet. 

. We were a little uneafy however, when we found 
It fhowed one whole day and a night, fo faft, that we 
could not travel ; but he bid us be eafy, we fhould 
foon be pad it all : we found, indeed, that we began 
to defcend every day, and to come more north than 
before j and fo, depending upon our guide, we went 
on. 

It was about two hours before night, when our 
guide being fomething before us, and not juft in 
fight, out ruflied three monftrous wolves, and after 
them a bear, out of an hollow way, adjoining to a 
thick wood ; two of the wolves flew upon the guide, 
and had he been half a mile before us, he had been 
devoured indeed, before we cduld have helped him ; 
one of them faftened upon his horfe, and the other at- 
tacked the man with that violence, that he had not 
time, or not prefence of mind enough, to draw his 
piftol, but hallooed and cried out to us moft luftilyj 
my man Friday being next to me, I bid him ride up, 
and fee what was the matter : As foon as Friday 
came in fight of the man, he hallooed, as loud as 
the other, O mafter ! O mafter ! But, like a bold 
fellow, rode direftly up to the man, and with his 
piftol fhot the wolf that attacked him in the head. 

It was happy for the poor man that it was ray man 
Friday ; for he, having been ufed to that kind of 
creature in his country, had no fear upon him, but 
went clofe up to him, and fhot him as above ; where- 
as any of us would have fired at a farther diftance, 
and have perhaps either miffed the wolf, or endan- 
gered fhooting the man. 

But 



Oi^ ROBINSON CRUSOE* 37 J[ 

But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man 
than I, and indeed it alarmed all our company, when, 
with the noife of Friday^ piftol, we heard on both 
Jides the difmalleft bowlings of wolves, and the noife 
Redoubled by the echo of the mountains, that it was 
to us as if there had been a prodigious multitude of 
them ; and perhaps indeed there was not fuch a few, 
as that we had no caufe of apprehenfions. 

However, as Friday had killed, this wolf, the 
other, that hadfaftened upon the horfe, left him im- 
mediately, and fled, having happily faftened upon 
his head, where the bofles of the bridle had (tuck in 
his teeth, fo that he had not done him much hurt : 
the man, indeed, was moft hurt ; for the raging crea- 
ture had bit him twice, once on the arm, and the 
other time a little above his knee ; and he was juft 
as it were tumbling down by the diforder of the 
horfe, when Friday came up, and Ihot the wolf. 

It is eafy to fuppofe, that at the noife of Friday^ 
piftol we all mended our, pace, and rid up as faft as 
the way (which was very difficult) would give us 
leave, to fee what was the matter ; as foon as we 
came clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we 
faw plainly what had been the cafe^ and how Friday 
had difengaged the poor guide ; ^though we did not 
prefently difcern what kind of creature it was he had 
killed. 

But never was a fight managed fo hardily, and la 
fuch a furprifing manner, as that which followed be- 
tween Friday and the bear, which gave us all (though 
at firft we were furprifed and afraid for him) the 
greatefi diverfion imaginable ; as the bear is an 
heavy, clumfy creature, and does not gallop as the 
B b 2 wolf 



37fli X-IFE AND ADVENTURES 

wolf does, which is fwift and light j fo he has two 
particular qualities, which generally are the rule of 
his anions ; firft, as to men, who are not his proper 
prey, I fay not his proper prey, becaufe though I can't 
fay what exceffive hunger might do, which was now 
their cafe, the ground being all covered with fnowj 
yet as to men, he does not ufually attempt them, un- 
lefs they firft attack him ; on the contrary, if you 
meet him in the woods, if you don't meddle with 
him, he won't meddle with you ; yet then you muft 
take care to be very civil to him, and give him the 
road ; for he is a very nice gentleman, he won't go 
a ftep out of the way for a prince ; nay, if you are 
really afraid, your beft way is to look another way, 
and keep going on ; for fometimes, if you flop, and 
ftand ftill, and look ftedfaftly at him, he takes it for 
an affront ; and if you throw or tofs any thing at him, 
and it hits him, though it were but a bit of flick as 
big as your finger, he takes it for an affront, and fets 
all other bufinefs afide to purfue his revenge ; for he 
will have fatisfaftion in point of honour, and this 
IS his firft quality j the next is, that if he be once 
affronted, he will never leave you, night or day, 
till he has his revenge, but follow at a good round 
rate till he overtakes you. 

My man Friday had delivered our guide, anci 
when we came up to him, he was helping him off 
from his horfe ; for the man was both hurt and 
frighted, and indeed the laft more than the firft j 
when, on a fudden, we efpied the bear come out of 
the wood, and a very monftrous one it was, the 
biggeft by far that ever I faw : we were all a little 

furprifed 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* 373 

fufprifed when we faw him ; but when Friday faw 
him, it was eafy to fee joy and courage in the fellow's 
countenance: O! O! O! fays Friday^ three times, 
pointing to him, O mafter ! you give me te leave, me 
fliakee te hand with him, me makee you good laugh. 

I was furprifed to fee the fellow fo pleafed : You 
fool you, faid I, he will eat you up. Eatee me up ! 
eatee me up I fays Friday ^ twice over again ; me 
eatee him up ; me make you good laugh ; you all 
ftay here, me ihew you good laugh : fo down he 
fits, and gets his boots off in a moment, and put on 
a pair of pumps (as we call the flat (hoes they wear) 
and which he had in his pockety' and gives my other 
fervant his horfe, and, with his gun, av/ay he flew, 
fwift like the wind. 

The bear was walking foftly on, and offered to 
meddle with nobody, till Friday coming pretty near, 
calls to him, as if the bear could underftand him : 
Hark ye, hark ye, fays Friday^ me fpeakee wit you. 
We followed at a diftance ; for now being come 
down to the Gafcoigne fide of the mountains, we 
were entered a vaft great foreft, where the country* 
was plain, and pretty open, though many trees in it 
fcattered here and there. 

Friday^ who had, as we fay, the heels of the bear, 
came up with him quickly, and takes up a great 
fl:one, and throws at him, and hit him juft on the 
head; but did him no more harm than if he had thrown 
it againft a wall ; but it anfwered Friday^ end ; for 
the rogue was fo void of fear, that he did it purely 
t^ make the bear follow him, and fhew us fome laugh, 
as he called it, 

B b 3 As 



374 ^JP^ AND ADVENTURES 

As foonasthe bear felt the ftone, and fa w him, he 
turns about, and comes after him, taking devililh 
long ftrides, and fhuffling along at a ftrange rate, fa 
as he would put an horfe to a middling gallop ; away 
runs Friday J and takes his courfe, as if he ran to- 
wards us for help ; fo v/e all refolved to fire at once 
upon the bear, and deliver my man ; though I was 
angry at him heartily for bringing the bear back 
upon us, when he was going about his own bufmefs 
another way ; and efpecially I was angry that he had 
turned the bear upon us, and then run away ; and I 
called out. You dog, faid I, is this your making us 
laugh? Come away,- and take your horfe, that we 
may (hoot the creature. He hears me, and cries out. 
No fhoot, no fhoot, ftand ftill, you get much laugh : 
and as the nimble creature ran two feet for the bead's 
one, he turned on a fudden, on one fide of us, and 
feeing a great oak tree, fit for his purpofe, he bec- 
koned us to follow, and doubling his pace, he gets 
nimbly up the tree, laying his gun down upon the 
ground, at about five or fix yards from the bottom 
of the tree. 

The bear foon came to the tree, and we followed 
at a diftance ; the firft thing he did, he flopped at the 
gun, fmelt to it, but let it lie, and up he fcranibles 
into the tree, climbing like a cat, though fo mbn- 
ftrous heavy : I was amazed at the folly, as I thought 
it, of my man, and could not for my life fee any 
thing to laugh at yet, till feeing the bear get up the 
tree, we all rode nearer to him. 

When we came to the tree, there was Friday got 
out to the fmall of a large limb of the tree, and the 

bear 

V 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 375 

bear got about half way to him ; as foon as the bear 
got out to that part where the limb of the tree was 
weaker, Ha, fays he to us, now you fee me teachee 
the bear dance ; fo he falls a jumping, and fliaking 
the bough, at which the bear began to totter, but 
flood ftill, and began to look behind him, to fee how 
he fhould get back ; then indeed we did laugh hearti- 
ly : But Friday had not done with him by a great 
deal ; when he fees him ft and ftill, he calls out to 
him again, as if he had fuppofed the bear could fpeak 
Englijhy What, you come no farther ? Pray you come 
farther. So he left jumping and Ihaking the 
bough ; and the bear, juft as if he underftood what 
hefaid, did come a little farther ; then he fell a jump- 
ing again, and the bear flopped again. 

We thought now was a good time to knock him 
on the head, and called to Friday to ftand ftill, and 
we would flioot the bear ; but he cried out earneft- 
ly, O pray ! O pray ! no flioot, me flioot by and 
then ; he would have faid, by and bye. However, 
to fliorten the ftory, Friday danced fo much, and 
the bear ftood fo ticklifti, that we had laughing 
enough indeed, but ftill could not imagine what the 
fellow would do ; for firft we thought he depended 
upon fliaking the bear off ; and we fotind the bear 
was too cunning for that too ; for he would not 
get out far enough to be thrown down, but clings 
faft with his great broad claws and feet, fo that we 
could not imagine what would be the end of it, and 
where the jeft would be at laft. 

But Friday put us out of doubt quickly ; for 

feeing the bear cling faft to the bough, and that he 

B b 4 would 



37^ ^^FE AND ADVENTURES 

trould not be perfuaded to come any ferther ; Well, 
well, faid Friday^ you no come farther, me go, me 
go ; you no come to me, me come to you ; and upon 
this he goes out to the fmalleft end. of the bough, 
where it would bend with his weight, and gently lets 
himfelf down by it. Aiding down the bough, till he 
came near enough to jump down on his feet, and 
away he ran to his gun, takes it up, and (lands 
ftilU 

Well, faid I to him, Friday^ what will you io 
now ? Why don't you fhoot him ? No fhoot, fays 
Friday^ no yet, me fhoot now me no kill ; me flay, 
give you one more laugh ; and indeed fo he did, as 
you will fee prefently; for when the bear fawhis 
enemy gone, he comes back from the bough where 
he flood, but did it mighty leifurely, looking behind 
him every ftep, and coming backward till he got into 
the body of the tree ; then with the fame hinder end 
foremoft, he came down the tree, grafping it with 
his claws, and moving one foot at a time, very lei- 
furely ; at this junfture, and juft before he could fet 
his hind feet upon the ground, Friday flepped clofe 
to him, clapped the muzzle of his piece into his ear, 
and fhot him as dead as a flone. 

Then the rogue turned about, to fee if we did not 
laugh J and when he faw we were pleafed by our 
looks, he falls a laughing himfelf very loud ; So we 
kill bear in my country, fays, Friday. S9, yt)u kill 
them, faid I ; why you have no guns : No, fays he, 
no guns, but fhoot great much long arrow. . 

This was, indeed^ a gqod diverfion to us ; but we 
were flill in a wild place, and our guide very much 

hurt. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 377 

Kurt, and what to do we hardly knew ; the howling 
of wolves ran much in my head ; and indeed ex- 
cept the noife I once heard on the (hore of Africa^ 
of which I have faid fomething already, I never 
heard any thing that filled me with fo much hor- 
ror. 

Thefe things, and the approach of night, called 
us off, or elfe, as Friday would have had us, we 
ftiould certainly have taken the Ikin of this mon- 
ftrous creature off, which was worth faving; but 
we had three leagues to go, and our guide haftened 
us ; fo we left him, and went forward on our jour- 
ney. 

The ground was ftill covered with fnow, though 
not fo deep and dangerous as on the mountains ; and 
the ravenous creatures, as we heard afterwards, were 
come down into the foreft and plain country, preffed 
by hunger, to feek for food, and had done a great 
deal of mifchief in the villages, where they fur- 
prifed the country people, killed a great many of their 
Iheep and horfes, and fome people too. 

We had one dangerous place to pafs, of which 
our guide told us, if there were any more wolves in 
the country^ we fhould find them there ; and this 
was a fmall plain, furrounded with woods on every 
fide, and a long narrow defile or lane, which we 
were to pafs to get through the wood, and then we 
fhould come to the village where we were to lodge^ 

It was within half an hour of fun-fet when we 
entered the firfc wood ; and a little after fun-fet, 
when we came into the plain. We met with no- 
thing in the firft wood, except that in a little plain 

within 



378 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

within the wood, which was not above two furlongs 
over, we faw five great wolves crofs the road, full 
fpeed one after another, as if they had been in chafe 
of foine prey, and had it in view ; they took no no- 
tice of us, and were gone and out of fight in a few 
moments. 

Opon this our guide, who, by the way, was a 
wretched faint-hearted fellow, bade us keep in a rea- 
dy pofture ; for he believed there were more wolvc§ 
a coming. 

We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us ; 
but we faw no more wolves till we came through that 
wood, which was near half a league, and entered 
the plain ; as foon as we came into the plain, we had 
occafion enough to look about us. The firft objeft 
we met with was a dead horfe, that is to fay, a poor 
horfe which the wolves had killed, and at lead a do- 
zen of them at work ; we could not fay eating of 
him, but picking of his bones rather ; for they had 
eaten up all the flefh before. 

We did not think fit to difturb them at their feaft, 
neither did they take much notice of us ; Friday 
would have let fly at them, but I would not fuffer 
him by any means ,j for I found we were like to 
have more bufinefs upon our hands than we were 
aware of. We were not half gone over the plain, 
but we began to hear the wolves howl in the woods, 
on our left, in a frightful manner ; and prefently af- 
ter we faw about an hundred coming on diredly to- 
wards us, all in a body, and moft of them in a line, 
as regularly as an army drawn up by experienced 
ofBcers. I fcarce knew in what manner to receive 

them J 



OP -ROBINSON CRUSOE. 379 

them ; but found to draw ourfelves in a clofe line, 
was the only way ; fo we formed in a moment ; but, 
that we might not have too much interval, I or- 
dered, that only every other man fliould fire ; and 
that the others, who had not fired, fliould (land ready 
to give them a fecond volley immediately, if they con- 
tinued to advance upon us ; and that then thofe who 
had fired at firft, fhould not pretend to load their fu- 
fils again, but ftand ready, with every one a piftol, 
for we were all armed with a fufil, and a pair of pif- 
tols each man ; fo we were, by this method, able to 
fire fix volleys, half of us at a time ; however, at 
prefent we had no neceffity ; for, upon firing the firft 
volley, the enemy made a full flop, being terrified, 
as well with the noife as with the fire ; four of them, 
being ftiot in the head, dropped ; feveral others were 
wounded, and went bleeding off, as we could fee by 
the fnow : I found they (lopped, but did not immedi- 
ately retreat ; whereupon remembering that I had 
been told, that the fierceft creatures were terrified 
at the voice of a man, 1 caufed all our company to 
halloo as loud as we could, and I found the notion 
not altogether miftaken ; for upon our fliout, they 
began to retire, and turn about ; then I ordered a 
fecond volley to be fired in their rear, which put 
them to the gallop, and away they went to the woods. 
This gave us leifure to charge our pieces again, 
and that we might lofe no time, we kept doing j but 
we had but little more than loaded our fufils, and 
put ourfelves into a readinefs, when we heard a ter- 
rible noife in the fame wood, on our left j only that 
it was farther oftward the feme way we were to go. 

The 



380 LLFE AND ADVENTURES 

The night was coming on, and the night began to 
be dulky, which made it the worfe on our fide; 
but, the noife increafing, we could eafily perceive 
that it was the howling and yelling of thofe hellifh 
creatures ; and, on a fudden, we perceived two or 
three troops of wolves on our left, one behind us, 
and one on our front, fo that we feemed to be fur- 
rounded with them ; however, as they did not fall 
upon us, we kept our way forward, as faft as we 
could make our horfes go, which, the way being 
very rough, was only a good large trot ; and in 
this manner we only came in view of the entrance 
of the wood through which we were to pafs,- at 
the farther fide of the plain ; but v^e were greatly 
furprifed, when, coming near the lane, or pafs, we ' 
faw a confufed number of wolves {landing juft at 
the entrance. 

On a fudden, at another opening of the wood, 
we heard the noife of a gun; and, looking that 
way, out ruflied an horfe, with a faddle and a 
bridle on him, flying like the wind, and fixteen or 
feventeen wolves after him full fpeed : indeed the 
horfe had the heels of them ; but as we fuppofe 
that he could not hold it at that rate, we doubted 
not but they would get up with him at laft ; and 
no queflion but they did. 

Here we had a moft horrible fight ; for, riding 
up to the entrance where the horfe came out, we 
found the carcafe of another horfe, and of two men 
devoured by thefe ravenous creatures, and of one 
the man was no doubt the fame whom we heard 
fire a gun, for there lay a gun juft by him fired oiF; 

but 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* 38 1 

but as to the man, his head, and the upper part of 
his body, were eaten up. 

This filled us with horror, and we knew not 
what courfe to take ; but the creatures refolved us 
foon, for they gathered about us prefently, in hopes 
of prey ; and I verily believe there were three hun- 
dred of them : It happened very much to our advan- 
tage, that at the entrance into the wood, but a little 
way from it, there lay fome large timber trees, which 
had been cut down the fummer before, and I fup- 
pofe lay there for carriage ; I drew my little troop in 
among thefe trees, and placing ourfelves in a line 
behind one long tree, I advifed them all to alight, 
and, keeping that tree before us, for a breaft-work, 
to (land in a triangle, or three fronts, inclofmg our 
horfes in the centre. 

We did fo, and it was well we did ; for never was 

a more furious charge than the creatures made upon 

us in this place ; they came on us with a growling 

kind of a noife, and mounted the piece of timber 

(which, as I faid, was our breaft-work,) as if they 

were only rufliing upon their prey ; and this fury of 

theirs, it feems, was principally occafioned by their 

feeing our horfes behind us, which was the prey they 

aimed at : I ordered our men to fire as before, every 

man ; and they took their aim fo fure, that indeed 

they killed feveral of the wolves at the firft volley j 

but there was a neceffity to keep a continual firing, 

for they came on like devils, thofe behind pufliing on 

thofe before. 

When we had fired our fecond volley of fufils, 
we thought they flopped a little, and I hoped they 
would have gone off, but it was but a moment, 

for 

^ ^^ r 



382 lilFE AKD ADVeKTUR£S 

for Others came . forward again ; fo we fired otif 
volleys of piftols; and I believe in thefe fouf 
firings, we killed feventeen or eighteen of them^ 
and lamed twice as many ; yet they came on again* 

I was loth to fpend our laft fhot too haftily ; fo 
I called my fervant, not my man Friday^ for he was 
better employed; for, with the greateft dexterity 
imaginable, he charged my fufil and his own, while 
we were engaged ; but, as I faid, I called my other 
?nan ; and giving him a horn of powder, I bade him 
lay a train all along the piece of timber, and let it be 
a large train ; he did fo, and had but time to get 
away, when the wolves came up to it, and fome were 
got up upon it ; when I, fnapping an uncharged piftol 
clofe to the powder, fet it on fire ; and thofe that 
were upon the timber were fcorched with it, and fix 
or feven of theni fell, or rather jumped in among 
us, with the force and fright of the fire ; we dif- 
patched thefe in an inflant, and the i*efl: were' fo 
frighted with the light, which the night, for now it 
was very near dark, made more terrible, that they 
drew back a little. 

. Upon.which I ordered our laft piftols to be fired 
off in one volley, and after that we gave a fliout ; 
upon this the wolves turned tail, and we fallied imme- 
diately upon near twenty lame ones, which we found 
ftruggling on the ground, and fell a cutting them with 
our fwords, which anfwered our expeftation ; for 
the crying and howling they made were better un- 
derftood by their fellows j fo that they fled and left 
us. 

We had, firft and laft, killed about three fcore of 
them J and had it been day-light, we had killed 

many 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 383. 

many more : The field of battle being thus cleared, 
we made forward again ; for we had ftill near a 
league to go ; we heard the ravenous creatures howl 
and yell in the woods as we went, feveral times ; and 
fometimes we fancied we faw fome of them, but the 
fnow dazzling our eyes, we were not certain ; fo in 
about an hour more we came to the town, where we 
were to lodge, which we found in a terrible fright, 
and all in arms ; for, it feems, that, the night be- 
fore, the wolves and fome bears had broken into that 
village, and put them in a terrible fright j and they 
were obliged to keep guard night and day, but efpe- 
cially in the night, to preferve their cattle, and in- 
deed their people* 

The next morning our guide was fo ill, and his 
limbs fo fwelled with the rankling of his two 
wounds, that he could go no farther j fo we were 
obliged to take a new guide there, and go to Tho- 
loufsy where we found a warm climate, a fruitful, 
pleafant country, and no fnow, no wolves, or any 
thing like them; but when we told our ftory at 
Tholoufej they told us it was nothing but what was 
ordinary in the great forefl at the. foot of the moun- 
tains, efpecially when the fnow lay on the ground ; 
but they enquired much what kind of a guide we 
had gotten, that would venture to bring us that 
w^y in fuch a fevere feafon ; and told us, it was very 
much we were not all devoured : When we told 
them how we placed ourfelves, and the horfes iii the 
middle, they blamed us exceedingly, and told us it 
was fifty to one but we had been all deftroyed ; for 
it was the fight of the horfes that made the wolves 
fo furious, feeing their prey ; and that at other times 

they 



384 I-IFE AND ADVENTURES 

they are really afraid of a gun ; but they being ex* 
ceffive hungry, and raging on' that account, the ea- 
gcrnefs to come at the horfes had made them fenfe- 
lefs of danger; and that if we had not by the con- 
tinued fire, and at laft by the ftratagem of the train 
of powder, maftered them, it had been great odds 
but that we had been torn to pieces 5 whereas, had 
we been content to have fat ftill on horfeback, and 
fired ashorfemen, they would not have taken the 
horfes fo much for their own, when men were on 
their backs, as otherwife j and withal they told us, 
that at laft, if we had ftood altogether, and left our 
horfes, they would have been fo eager to have de- 
voured them, that we might have come off fafe, 
efpecially having our fire-arms in our hands, and 
being fo many in number. 

For my part, I was never fo fenfible of danger in 
my life ; for feeing above three hundred devils come 
roaring and open-mouthed to devour us^ and having 
nothing to fhelter us, or retreat to, I gave myfelf 
over for loft ; and as it was, I believe, I fhall never 
care to crofs thofe mountains again ; I think I would 
much rather go a thoufand leagues by fea, though 
I were fure to meet with a ftorm once a week. 

I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in 
my paffage through France ; nothing but what other 
travellers have given an account of, with much more 
advantage than I can : I travelled from Tboloufe to 
Paris J and without any confiderable ftay, came to 
Calais^ and landed fafe at Dover^ the fourteenth of 
January^ after having had a fevere cold feafon to 
travel in. 

I was 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 385 

I was nov/ come to the centre of my travels, and 
had in a little time all my new difcovered eftate fafe 
about me, the bills of exchange, which I brought 
with me, having been very currently paid. 

My principal guide and privy counfellor, was my 
go5d ancient widow, who, in gratitude for the money 
I had fent her, thought no pains too much, or care 
too great, to employ for me ; and I trufted her fo 
entirely with every thing, that I was perfeftly eafy 
as to the fecurity of my effeds ; and indeed I was 
very happy from my beginning, and now to the end, 
in the unfpotted integrity of this good gentlewoman. 

And now I 'began to think of leaving my efFefts 
With this woman, and fetting out for Lijbon^ and fo 
to the Brafils : but now another fcruple came in the 
way, and that was religion ; for as I had entertained 
fome doubts about the Roman religion, even while I 
was abroad, efpecially in my ftate of folitude ; fo I 
knew there was no going to the Braftls for me, much 
lefs going to fettle there, unlefs I refolved to embrace 
the Roman CaihoUc religion, without any referve ; 
except on the other hand I refolved to be a facrifice 
to my principles, be a martyr for religion, and die 
in the inqnifition : fo I refolved to flay at home, and, 
if I could find means for it, to difpofe of my planta- 
tion. ' * 

To this purpofe I wrote to my old friend at Lijbon^ 
who in return gave me notice, that he could eafily 
difpofe of it there : but that if I thought fit to give 
him leave to offer it in my name to the two merchants, 
the furvivors of my trufcees who lived in the Brofils^ 
who mud fully underfland the value of it, who lived 

Vol. I. C c juft 



386 LIFE A>^D ADVENTURES 

juft upon the fpot, and who I knew to be very rich, 
fo that he believed they would be fond of buying it } 
he did not doubt, but I fliould make 4 or 5000 pieces 
of eight the more of it. 

Accordingly I agreed, gave him orders to offer it 
to them, and he did fo ; and in about eight months 
more, the fhip being then returned, he fent me an 
account, that they had accepted the offer, and had 
remitted 33,000 pieces of eight to a correfpondent of 
theirs at Lijbon^ to pay for it. 

In return, I figned the inftrument of fale in the 
form which they fent from Lifboriy and fent it to my 
old man, who fent me the bills of exchange for 
32,800 pieces of eight for the eftate; referving the 
payment of 100 moidores a year, to him, (the old 
man,) during his life, and 50 moidores afterwards 
to his foil for his life, which I had promifed them j 
and which the plantation was to make good as a rent 
charge. And thus I have given the firft pj^rt of a 
life of fortune and adventure, a life of Providence's 
chequer- work, and of a variety which the world will 
Seldom be able to ihew the like of: beginning foolifh* 
ly, but clofmg much more happily than any part of 
it ever gave me leave fo much as to hope for. 

Any one would think, that in this ftate of com- 
plicated good fortune, I was pad: running any more 
hazards, and fo indeed I had been, if other circum- 
ftances had concurred : but I was inured to a wander- 
ing life, had no family, nor many relations; nor, 
however rich, had I contrafted much acquaintance; 
and though 1 had fold my eftate in the Brafth^ yet 
1 could not keep that country out of my head, and 
had a great mind to be upon the wing again} 
I efpecially 



OP ROBINSON CRUSOE* 387 

erpecially I could not refift the ftrong inclination I 
had to fee my ifland, and to know if the poor 
Spaniards were in being there j and how the rogues 
I left there had ufed them. 

My true friend the widow earneftly diffuaded me 
from it, and fo far prevailed with me, that almoft 
for feven years fhe prevented my running abroad j 
during which time I took my two nephews, the chil- 
dren of one of my brothers, into my care : the eldeft 
having fomething of his own, I bred up as a gentle- 
man, and gave him a fettlement of fome addition 
to his eftate, after my deceafe ; the other I put out 
to a captain of a (hip ; and after five years, finding 
him a fenfible, bold, enterprifing young fellow, I 
put him into a good fhip, and fent him to fea: and 
this young fellow afterwards drew me in, as old as I 
was, to farther adventures piyfelf. 

In the mean time, I in part fettled myfelf here : 
for, firft of all I married, and that not either to my 
difadvantage or diffatisfadion ; and had three chil- 
dren, two fons and one daughter : but my wife dying, 
and my nephew coming home with good fuccefs from 
a voyage to Spain^ my inclination to go abroad, and 
his importunity, prevailed, and engaged me to go 
in his fhip, as a private trader to the Eaji- Indies. This 
was in the year 1694. 

In this voyage I vifited my new colony in the 
ifland, faw my fucceffors the Spaniardsy had the 
whole ftory of their lives, and of the villains I left 
there ; how at firft they infulted the poor Spaniards^ 
how they afterwards agreed, difagreed, united, fepa- 
rated, and how at laft the Spaniards were obliged to 
ufe violence with them ; how they were fubjedied to 

C c 2 the 



388 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

the Spaniards ; how honeftly the Spaniards ufed them; 
an hiflory, if it were entered into, as full of variety 
and wonderful accidents as my own part ; particu- 
larly alfo as to their battles with the Caribbeansy who 
landed feveral times upon the ifland, and as to the 
improvement they made upon the ifland itfelf ; and 
how five of them made an attempt upon the main 
land, and brought away eleven men and five women 
prifoners ; by which, at my coming, I found about 
twenty young children on the ifland. 

Here I flayed about twenty days ; left them fupplies 
of all neceflary things, and particularly of arms, 
powder, Ihot, clothes, tools, and two workmen, 
which I brought from England with me; viz. a 
carpenter and a fmith. 

Befides this, I fhared the land into parts with 
them, referved to myfelf the property of the whole, 
but gave them fuch parts, refpeflively, as they agreed 
on; and, having fettled all things with them, and 
engaged them not to leave the place, I left them 
there, 

Froni thence I touched at the Brajils^ from whence 
I fent a bark, which I bought there, with more peo- 
ple, to the ifland ; and in it, befides other fupplies, 
I fent feven women, being fuch as I found proper 
for fervice, or for wives to fuch as would take them. 
As to the EngUjhmen^ I promifed them to fend them 
fome women from England^ with a good cargo of necef- 
faries, if they would apply themfelves to planting ; 
which I afterwards could not perform : the fellows 
proved very honeft and diligent, after they were 
mafliered, and had their properties fet apart for them. 
I fent them alfo from the Brafils five cows, three of 
4 them 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 389 

them being big with calf, fome fheep, and fome hogs, 
which, when I came again, were confiderably in- 
creafed. 

But all thefe things, with an account how 300 
Caribbees came and invaded them, and ruined their 
plantations, and how they fought with that whole 
number twice, and were at firft defeated and one of 
them killed ; but at laft a ftorm deftroying their ene- 
mie's canoes, they famiflied or deftroyed almoft all 
the reft, and renewed and recovered the poffeffion 
of their plantation, and ftill lived upon the iftand^ 

All thefe things, with fome very furprifmg inci- 
dents in fome new adventures of my own, for ten 
years more, I may, perhaps, give a farther account 
of hereafter. 



END OF THE FIRST VOLUME. 



t 



