Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



25'33 



. 5(^12. 



COLLECTION 



OP 



ANCIENT AND MODERN 



ENGLISH AUTHORS, 



VOL. CXLI. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



=«» 



OPINIONS ON ROBINSON GRUSO£. 



** Mo fiction in any language was ever better supported than the iDTBifrnliES op 

BOBIRSOII CBCSOE.**— Db. BLAIB. 

** B0BIII80N CBD8AB Js the first book I ever read with pleasure ; and I believe erery 
boy in Europe might say the same.**— Mabhortel. 

**Was there ever any thing written by mere man that was wished longer by its 
readers, excepting dor QOixcrrB, bobinsoii cbusob, and the pilgbih*8 pbogbess? "— 

Db. JOBNSOlf. 

^' De Foe's style is every where beautiful, but plain and homely. Bobinsoii cbdsoe 
is delightful to aliraulcs and classes, and worthy to find a shelf in the libraries ef the weal- 
thiest and the most learned."— Chaales Lamb. 

*' If it be inquired by what charm it Is that these scbpbising AmrEHTUBBS should have 
instantly pleased, and always pleased, it will be found that few books have ever so natu- 
rally mingled amusement with instruction.'*— Chalhbbs. 

^* Society is for ever indebted to the memory of De Foe for his production of a work 
in which the ways of Providence are simply and pleasingly vindicatecj, and a lasting and 
useful moral is conveyed through the channel of an interesting and deUghtful story."- 
Sib Walteb Scott. 

*' ROBifisoN CBUSOE must be allowed, by the most rigid moralist, to be one of those 
novels which one may read, not only with pleasure, but also with profit. It breathes 
tiiroughout a spirit of piety and benevolence; it sets in a very striking 4ight the 
importance oC the mechanic arts, which they, who know not what it is to be widiout 
them, are so apt to undervalue ; audit fixes in the mind a lively idea of the horrors of 
solitude, and, consequently, of the sweets of social life, and of the blessings we derive 
from conversation and mutual aid."— Db. Bkattib. 



PBINTED BY CASIXIB, 12, BUB DE LA VIBILLB-MORNAIE. 



LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

OP 

ROBmSON CRUSOE, 

OF YORK, MARINER. 

WITH IM ICCODHT 

OF HIS TRAVELS ROUND THREE PARTS OF THE GLOBE- 



WRITTEN BY HIMSELF. 



PARIS: 

BAUDRY'S EUROPEAN LIBRARY, 



I nuiti-stiNT-iiiGvmMi iNit laincn uio i 



1856. 



THE LIFfi 



OF 



DANIEL DE FOE, 



Perhaps there exists no work, either of instruction or enter- 
tainment, in the English language, which has been more generally 
read, and more universally admired, than the Life and Adventurei 
of Robinson Crusoe. It is difficult to say in what the charm 
consists, by which persons of all classes and denominations are 
thus fascinated ; yet the majority of readers will recollect it as 
among the first works which awakened and interested tlieir youth- 
ful attention ; and feel, even in advanced life, and in the maturity 
of their understanding, that there are still associated with Robin- 
son Crusoe, the sentiments peculiar to that period, when all is 
new, all glittering in prospect, and when those visions are most 
bright, which the experience of after life tends only to darken 
and destroy. 

This work was first published in April, i 719; its reception, as 
may be supposed, was universal. It is a singular circumstance 
that the auihor (the subject of our present Memoir), after a life 
spent in political turmoil, danger, and imprisonment, should have 
occupied himself, in its decline, in the production of a work like 
the present ; unless it may be supposed, that his wearied heart 
turned with disgust from society and its institutions, and found 
solace in picturing the happiness of a state such as he has assigned 
to his hero. Be this as it may, society is for ever indebted to the 



n THE LIFE 

memory of [De] Foe for his production of a yyovki in ifvhich the 
ways of Providence are simply and pleasingly vindicated, and a 
lasting and useful moral is conveyed through the channel of an in- 
teresting and»deiightfui story. 

Daniel De Foe was born in London in the year i663. His father 
was James Foe, of the parish of St. Giles, butcher. Much curious 
speculation, with which we shall not trouble our readers, has 
arisen from the circumstmpce of JDaniers having, in his own in- 
stance, prefixed the De to the family name. We are inclined to 
adopt the opinion of that critical inquirer, who supposes that Da- 
niel did so, being ashamed of the lowness of his origin, and con- 
ceived the prefixed De had a sound of Norman dignity with it. 
His family, as well as himself, were dissenters ; but it does not 
appear that bia tenets were so strict as his sect required ; for he 
complains, in the Preface to his More Reformation, that some dis- 
senters had reproached him, as if he had said, that ** the gallows 
and the galleys ought to be the penalty of going to the conventicle; 
forgetting that I must design to have my father, my wife, six inno^ 
cent children, and myself, put iata the same condition. '' 

De Foe's education was rather circumscribed, which is the more 
to be lamented, as, in so many instances, he has exhibited proofs 
of rare natural genius. He was sent by hi) father, at twelve years 
old, to the Newington Green Dissenting Academy, then kept by 
Mr. Morion, where he remained about four years; and this ap- 
pears to have been all the education he ever received. When he 
was remanded from school, it would seem that, his genius not ly- 
&I0 towards the marrow-bone and cleaver, his father had put him 
to some other trade; of what nature we are unable to learn, D^ 
foe himself being very reserved on the subject. When charged 
by Tutchin ' with liaving his breeding as an apprentice to a hosier, 
be asserts (May 1705), ^' that lie never was a hosier, ' or an ^fr- 
l^repliceji but admitis that he had been a trader.'* 

This, however, had occupied but a short period of his youth; 
for in iiSSS, when he was in his twenty-second year, he took up 
arms in the cause of the duke of Monmouth. On the destr^ctioff 
of Monmouth's party, Daniel had the good fortune to escape un- 

Sunished amidst the herd of greater delinquents; but, in his 
itcer years, when the avowal was no longer dangerous, he boasts 
Umsetf much of his exploits, in his Appeal to Honour and Jui6cp, 
being a true Account of his Conduct in Public Affairs. 



< ToffMii, tilt pnbltskcr of the ^^servafor, and a steady opponent of B0 Foe^» 
ym IP pottMca and kUevatare. 

% l^eriMSA tie lalm he laid (q kit coos cienca f6r tkit uppacently fthe MiaittMi, 
HUf ^i Uiqjngh be dealt in hoie, lie dU not moks tbeoi* 



OF DANIEL BE Wot in 

Thr^ years afterwards (168H), De Foe was admitted a livery- 
inan of London. As he had been ihronghout a steady advocate 
for the Revolution, he had now the saiisfaclion of wiinessing that 
ffreat event. Oldmixon says (Works, vol. ii. p. 276), that at a 
i^ast, {j;iven \>Y the Lonl Mayor of London to King William, on 
the S9ib October, 1689, De Foe appeared gallantly mounted and 
richly accoutred, aroonff the troopers ciunmanded by Lord Peter- 
hopoqgh, who attended the King and Queen from Whitehall to the 
Mansion House. Alt Daniefs horsemanship, however, united to 
Ibe steady devotion of his i^en to the cause of William, were unable 
^ procure him the notice of that cold charactered monarch ; 
§nd our author was fain to content himself (as his adversary 
Tutchin asserts) with the humble occupation of a hosier in Free- 
man's-yard, Gornhrll : wisely considering that, if the court could 
4q without political tracts, the people could not do without stock- 

With the ill fortune, however, attendant upon those men of 
genius, who cultivate their superior powers to the neglect of that 
common sepse which is requisite to carry a man creditably through 
Ihis §very-day world, De Foe's affairs drcined from bad to worse ; 
fl^ ^nt those hours which he ought to have devoted to his shop, 
In 9 society for the cultivation of polite learning, and he was under 
t}3^ necessity of absa>n(ling from his creditors in 1692. One of 
tbios^ cretlitor^ who had le^ consideration for polite learning, and 
pore irritability than the rest, took out a commission of bank* 
fiiptcy again^ him; but, fortunately for our author, this was su- 
perseded on the petition of those to whom he was most indebted, * 
iiud a compo^iition was accepted. This composition he punctually 
paid by efforts of unwearied diligence ;-~and some of the credit 
lors, whose claims had been thus satisfied, falling into distress 
tltempelves, he waited upon them, and paid their debts in full. He 
was next enga{^ed in carrying on lile-works, on the banks of the 
Thames, near Tilbury, but with little success; for it was sarcasti- 
cally said of him that he did not, *' like the Egyptians, require 
bricks without straw, but, like the Jews, roquii eJ bricks without 
paying his labourers. " United to his tile-making, our author sti- 
mulated by an active mind and embarrassed circumstances, devised 
many other schemes, or, as he called them, projects. Ho wrote 
nany sheets about the English coin ; he projected Banks for every 
faunty, and Factories for goods ; he exhibited a Proposal (very 
lielingly, no doubt), for a commission of inquiry into bankrupts* 
ettaies; be contrived a Pension- office for the r<4ief of the poor, and 
faitahed by publishing along Essay upon projects themselves. 

▲bout this period (1605), our author's indefatigable endeavours 
pwiira4 Um aome notice from the oourt, and he was appouiied 



IV THE LII^E 

accountant to the commissioners for managing the duties on glass. 
Here, also> his usual ill luck attended him ; he ifvas thrown out of 
his situation by the suppression of the tax in 1699. 

But the time at length arrived when the sun of royal favour yvas 
to shine out upon our author's prospects. About the end of 
1699, there was published, what De Foe calls, *'an horrid pam- 
phlet, in very ill verse, written by one Tutchin, and called The 
Foreigners; in which the author fell personally upon the King, 
then upon the Duich nation, and, after having reproached his 
majesty with crimes, that his worst enemies could not think of 
without horror, he sums up all in the odious name of Foreigner. 
This filled me with rage against the book, and gave birth to a 
trifle, which I never could hope should have met with so general 
an acceptation." 

The trifle, which De Foe here alludes to, was his True-bom 
Englishmany a poeiical satire on The Foreigners, and a defence of 
King William and the Dutch ; of which the sale was great without 
example, and our author s reward proportionate. He was even 
admitted to the honour of a personal interview with the king, 
and became with more ardour than ever a professed partisan of 
the court. In this composition the satire was strong, powerful, 
and manly,— upbraiding the English Tories for their unreasonable 
prejudice against foreigners; the rather that there were so many 
nations blended in the mass now called Englishmen. The verse 
was rough and mistuned, for De Foe never seems to have possessed 
an ear for the melody of language, whether in prose or verse. 
' But though wanting the long resounding verse and energy divine 
of Dryden, he had often masculine expressions and happy turns 
of thought, not unworthy of the author of Absabm and Achi- 
tophelf — though upon the whole, his style seems rather to have 
been formed on that of Hall, Oldham, and the elder satirists. 
The first verses are well known : 

Wberever God erects a honse of prayer, 
The DcyU always builds a chapel there; 
And 't will be found, upon examtoation. 
The latter has the largest congregation. 

The authors first publication after The True-bom Englishman 
was, The original Power of the Collective Body of the People of 
England exMuined and asserted; next, An Argument to prove thai 
a standing Armiff with consent of Parliament, was not inconsiuent 
with a free Government ; but, as we do not mean to follow De Foe 
through the career of his politics, and intend only to notice such 
works as, in their consequences, materially affected his personal 



OF DANIEL DE FOE. ? 

situation and affairs^ \re shall pass to the death of his sovereign 
and patron, which took place 8ih March, 1702. 

The' succession of Anne having restored the line of Stuart, to 
whom the politics and conduct of De Foe had been peculiarly ob« 
noxious, our author was shortly reduced, as before, to live on the 
produce of his wits : — ^and it is perhaps lucky for the world that 
there is so much truth in the universal outcry against the neglect 
of living authors ; for there seems a certain laziness concomilant 
with genius, which can only be incited to action by the pressure 
of necessity. Had William lived, probably the world would never 
have been delighted with the Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. 

Whether De Foe found politics the most vendible produce of the 
press, or, like Macbeth, felt himself 

Stept in so far, that sboald I wade no more, 
Retnroing were as tedious as go o'er,^ 

we are yet to learn ; but he ventured to reprint his SAorleti Way 
with the Dissenters, and to publish several other treatises, which 
were considered libellous by the Commons ; and on the 25th of 
February, 1702-5, a complaint being made in the House, of a 
book entitled. The Shortest Way with the Dissenters, and the folios 
11 — 18 and 26 being read, ''Resolved, that this book, being full 
of false and scandalous reflections on this Parliament, and tending 
to promote sedition, be burnt by the hands of the common hang- 
man, in New Palace-Yard. " 

Our unfortunate author's political sins were now all mustered 
in array against him, and a tremendous catalogue they made. He 
had been the favourite and panegyrist of William ; he had fought 
for Monmouth, and opposed James; he had vindicated the Revolu- 
tion, and defended the rights of the people, he had bantered, in- 
sifted, and offended the whole Tory leaders of the Commons ; — 
and, after all, he could not be quiet, but must republish his most 
offensive productions. 

Thus overpowered, De Foe was obliged to secrete himself; 
and we are indebted to a very disagreeable circumstance for the 
following accurate description of his person. A proclamation was 
issued by the secretaries of state, in January, 1705, in the follow*- 
ing terms ; 



t€ 



St. James's, Jan. iO, i 702-3. 



** Whereas Daniel De Foe, alias De Fooe, is charged with writ- 
ing a scandalous and seditious pamphlet, entitled, The Shortest 
way wUh the Dissenters; be is a paiddje-sijsed spare map» ^bout 



n THE LttE 

forty years old, of a brown complexion, and dark br6Wft (^totiNsd 
hair, but wears a wig, a hooked nose, a sharp chin, {jrey feyMI, 
and a lar{;e mole near his mouih ; was born in London, and for 
many years Was a hose-factor, in Freeman's Yard, In Gomhill, 
and now is owner of the brick and pantile-works near Tilbury 
Fort, in Essex ; whoever shall discover the said Daniel De F66 1^ 
one of her majesty's principal secretaries of stale, or any of h^t 
majesty's justices of peace, so as he may be apprehended, ^halt 
have a reward of 50/., — which her majesty has ordered itnmi^ 
diaiely to be paid upon such discovery." 

He was shortly after caught, fined, pilloried, and imprisonlBd. 
*• Thus, " says he, " was I a second time ruined * for by ibit affair 
I lost above 3,.W0/. sterling. " 

While he was confined in Newgate, he occupied his time in cor- 
recting for the press a collection of his own writings, which was 
published in the course of the year ; and he even ainused himself 
by writing an Ode to the Pillory^ of which he had so lately been 
made the unwilling acquaintance. Hence Pope's insulting Terse^ 
which classes De Foe with his Tory rival : 

Earless on high stood uoabash'd De Foe, 
And Tutchin flagrant from the scenes below. 

His Hymn to the Pillory , in rough and harsh iambics, has, like 
the True-bom Englishman, and indeed all De Foe's poetry, t 
strong fund of manly satire; and we are mistaken if, in the linei 
which follow, the author does not successfully retort upon his pro* 
secutors the shame at least of the punishment to which he had beea 
subjected. They are in the spirit, though without the eloquenoe» 
of the gallant old cavalier, Lovelace. 

Stone walls do not a prison make, 

^or iron bars a cage ; « 

Minds innocent and quiet take *■ 

That foi* a hermitage. 

The hymn of De Foe commences thus : 

Hail! Hi'roglyphic State Mncbine, 
Condemn'd to pnoish fancy in; 
Men, that are men, can in ihee feel no pain. 
And all thy iosigniflcance disdain. 

Contempt, that false new word for shame, 

ts without crime an empty name— 

A shadow to amuse mankind. 
But De?er frighli the wise or well-flz'd mind; 

Virtue despises human soorn» 

And senndals iimdeenee Mn^. 



OF DAMlEL M FOE. ^ 

SntlM bn thy <k06l of state* 
What prospect do I lee of Mire IMe? 

j^ow the ifucratables of pro?ideooe 
DtfTer fron onr contracted sense ; 
Hereby IIM errors of the town. 
That feob laok out, and kMim leak Ml. 

Not «atkfied with this unpleasant subject for ittiibiGS, De Foe tf- 
lemrtiirds wrote a Hymn to the Gatlowi, 

But the chief object to which the author directed his niind» wai 
the projection of The Review. The publication of this periodical 
woi k cummenced in 4to, on the 19ih February, 1704, and coi^ 
tinned at the rate of two numbers a-weeli, till March, 1705, when 
an additional weekly number was published ; and it was continued 
every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday, till May, i715, forming 
in whole nine thidc volumes. De Foe was the sole writer. This 
work treats of foreign and domestic intelligence, politics, and 
trade ; but as our author foresaw that it was not likely to beooflae 
popiklar unless amusing, he discusses various other topics, under 
die head of a Scandal Cluby — Love, Marriage, Poetry, Language, 
and the prevailing tastes and habits of the times. Neither did 
these occupations find sufficient employment for his active mind. 
While he was still in Newgate (1704), be published The Storm^ or a 
coHedion of the most remarkable casualties which happened in 
the tempest, %th November, 1703. Nur was this work a dry de* 
tail of disasters only, De Foe having taken the occasion, with his 
usual felicity, to inculcate ibe truths of k*eligion, and the superi^* 
tendency of Providence. * 

About the end of 1704, when, as our author tells us, he lay ruin- 

< The following accoaot of thi* treoMudeos TilitaUon is eitneM iNMB IN 
relDords of tbe period. 

^ !9ov)eniber 26. Atmtxt midnight began the most terrible storm tliat bad lieen 
known fn England; tbe wind W. S. W. attended with flashes of lightning, ti 
vneo^ered the rooft of many bonses and otwrDbes, lilaw down tlie i p if u Of ••• 
Teral steeples, and chimneys, tore whole groves of trees np by te nieii. Tki 
leads of some churches were rolled up like scrolls of parebment, and several ves- 
sels, boats, and barges, were sunk in tbe river of Thames; but the royal navy 
aostainad tbe greatest damage, being just relarned fhtm tbe Straits; fbur'lblnl* 
nates, one second-rate, fom* fourth- rales, and many oNiers of lessfepee, %eveetat 
away upon tlie coast of Englaud, and above fifteen hundred aeameta lept^ taUbn 
those that were cast away in merchant ships. Tbe loss that London alone aaso 
talhed was computed at one million sterling, and the dty of Bristol lost to the 
amount of two hundred thousand poan<h. Among ttie perpons who wohe 
drowned was ftear-Admiral Beaumont. 

*' Upon this calamity tbe Commons addressed ker Maieity, that she wwrii 
give direetloDs for relraildiog and repairing tbe royal naty; and UmI d«i«oid| 
make loi&e provision for tbe liimllies of those seamen (bat perished in tbestoriipi 
Win WHen oar iiiajesty eeoipnea. 



VIII THE LIFE 

ed and friendless in Newgate, without hopes of deliverance, Sir 
Robert Harley, then secretary of state, of whom De Foe had no 
previous personal knowledge, sent a verbal message to him, desir- 
ing to know " what he could do for him. " Our author, no doubt, 
made a suitable reply ; in consequence of which. Sir Robert took 
an opportunity to represent to the Queen his present misei^, and 
unmerited sufferings. Anne, however, did not immediately con- 
sent to his liberation, but she inquired into the circumstances of 
his family, and sent, by Lord Godolphin, a considerable sum to 
bis wife. She afterwards, through the same medium, conveyed a 
sum to himself, equal to the payment of his fine and discharge, and 
thus bound him eternally to her interest. He was liberated from 
Newgate the end of 1704, and retired immediately to his family at 
St. Edmund's Bury. He was not allowed, however, to enjoy the 
quiet he courted. Booksellers, news-writers, and wits, circulated 
everywhere reports, that he had fled from justice, and deserted 
his security. He despised their spite, and resumed his labours ; 
the first fruits of which were, a Hymn to Victory^ and A Double 
Welcome to the Duke ofMarlborouqhy the subjects for both of which 
were furnished by the glorious achievements of that general. 

Our author now continued his Review , and his political pam- 
phleteering, for several years ; in the course of which he was subject- 
ed to much disquiet, and frequently to danger; but the conscious- 
ness of his situation as an English freeholder, and a liveryman of 
London, united to a considerable degree of resolution and personal 
courage, enabled him to encounter and overcome the machinations 
of his enemies. It will scarcely be believed, at this time of day, 
that, on a journey which his affairs led him to take to the western 
parts of England, a project was formed to kidnap and send him as 
a soldier to the army ; that the western justices, in the ardour of 
their party zeal, determined to apprehend him as a vagabond ; and 
that suits were commenced against him in his absence for fictitious 
debts : yet all these circumstances De Foe has asserted in his ite- 
vieWf and we have not learned that any attempt was ever made to 
controvert the truth of his statements. 

About this time (1706) a situation occurred, for which our au- 
thor's abilities were peculiarly fitted. The cabinet of Queen Anne 
was in want of a person of general commercial knowledge, ready 
talents, and insinuating manners, to go to Scotland for the purpose 
of promoting the great measure of the Union. Lord Godolphin 
determined to employ De Foe ; he accordingly carried him to the 
Queen, by whom our author was graciously received, and in a few 
days he was sent to Edinburgh. The particular nature of lus in- 
structions has never been made public ; but on his arrival at Edin- 
burgh, in October, 1706, De Foe was recognised as a charactei^ 



OF DANIEL DE FOE. ii 

aliofiost diplomatic. We must refer our readers to his Hiifony of 
the Union, for ihe various and interesting particulars of this mission; 
the detail of which, here, would occupy an extent beyond the li- 
mits of our biography. 

De Foe appears to have been no great favourite in Scotland, al- 
though, while there, he published Caledonia, a poem in honour of 
the nation. He mentions many hair-breadth*scapes, which, **byhis 
own prudence, and God's providence, " he effected ; and it is not 
wonderful, that where almost the whole nation wasdecidediy averse 
to the Union, a character like De Foe, sent thither to promote it by 
all means, direct and indirect, should be regarded with dislike, and 
even exposed to the danger of assassination. The act for the Union 
was passed by the Scotch parliament in January, and De Foe re- 
turned to London in February, 1707, to write a history of that 
great international treaty. It is believed that his services were 
rewarded by a pension from Queen Anne. 

During the troublous period which followed, until the conclusion 
of the war by the treaty of Utrecht, De Foe, wiser by experience, 
lived quietly at Newington, publishing his Review. He encounter- 
ed, however, in the fulfihnent of this task, much contentious ofipo- 
sition and obloquy, which he manfully resisted and retorted; but« 
after the political changes, by which his first patron Sir Robert 
Harley, and next Lord Godolphin, were turned out of power, his 
pecuniary allowance from the Treasury seems to have ceased, and 
he was compelled, as before, to launch out as a general writer for 
the supply of his necessities. The political agitation of the times 
dictated his subjects ; but, unfortunately for De Foe, both Tories 
and Jacobites, in those days, were such plain matter-of-fact men, 
that his raillery was misunderstood, a d he was arrested and com- 
mitted to his old habitation, for several squibs, which were ob- 
viously ironical. 

The writings on which he was indicted were two ; What if the 
Pretender should come? and. What if the Queen should die? '* No- 
thing," says De Foe, *' could be more plain, than that the titles of 
these are amusements, in order to get the books into the hands of 
those who had been deluded by the Jacobites. " His explanation 
would not suffice ; he was tried and found guilty, fined in 8001. and 
committed to Newgate. He was now compelled to drop the publi- 
cation of his Review ; and it is singular that he did so while confin- 
ed in Newgate, the very place in which its idea had first entered his 
head nine years before. 

After lying in jail a few months, he was liberated by the queen's 
order in November, 1713. 

Although thus released, and the innocence of his intentions ad- 
mitted, if not established, nothing was done for him; and the 



t THE LIFK 

^ddn^s death, which took place shortly after (lA laly, 1714), left 
Mkii deFenceless to the attacks of his rancorous enemies. '* No 
soonelr/' says he, *^ was the queen dead, and the king, as right re* 
auiredy proclaimed, but the rage of men increased upon me to that 
wgree^ that their threats were such as I am unable to express ; and 
though I have written nothing since the queen's death, yet a great 
fisany things are called by my name, and I bear the answerer's M*- 
sults." This was the darkest period of our author's life. He had 
lost his appointment, whatever it was ; he had been obliged to givi6 
up his Aet;ieic;; everything, he ventured to publish besides was re*- 
ceived with suspicion, and he was on all hands overborne by fae* 
tion, injury, and insult. His health declined fast under theae un*^ 
merited sufferings, but the vigour of his mind remained ; and he 
determined to assert the innocence of his conduct, and to clear hte 
blemished fame. He accordingly published, inl7i5, AnAppe^ 
to Honour andJtistice^ though it be of his worst Enemies, being a trUt 
Account of his Conduct in Public Affairs. This work contains a 
kmg account and defence of his political conduct from the outset» 
and a most affecting detail of his sufferings ; but the subject had 
been too much for him. When he reviewed what he had done^ 
abd how he had been rewarded ; how much he had deserved, and 
how heavily he had suffered ; the ardent spirit of De Foe sank be* 
fore the picture, and he was struck with apoplexy before he could 
finish his work. It was published, nevertheless, by his friends, and 
the profits of its sale seem t0 have been the only source of his sup^ 
port. This was the terminating period of our author's political cdh 
feer. He recovered his health, but his mind had changed its tonei 
and it was now that the history of Selkirk first suggested to him 
the idea of Robinson Crusoe. It has been thought by some to de- 
tract from the merit of De Foe, that the idea was not originally hia 
own : but really the story of Selkirk, which had been published a 
few years before in Woodes Rogers's Voyage round the Worlds ap- 
pears to have furnished our author with so little beyond the bafi 
idea of a man living upon an uninhabited island, that it seems quitH 
immaterial whether be took his hint from that, or from any other 
similar story, of which many were then current. In order 
to enable our readers to judge how very little De Foe has beett 
assisted by Selkirk's narrative, we have extracted the whoi^a 
from Woodes Rogers's Voyage, and subjoined it to this ar* 
tide. « 

The sale of Robinson Crusoe was, as we have already stated, rapid 
and extensive, and De Foe's profits were commensurate. The 
work was attacked on all sides by his ancient opponents, wh^se hi* 

> See App«adii, I*lo. I. 



OF DAMEL DC FOE. 

boars bate bn^ since qaietly descended with their amborsto 
riled oblivion ; but our author, having the public on his side* 
them all at defiance ; and the same year be published a seoofid vo- 
lume wilb equal success. Thus far 

With steady bark and flowiogsail 
He ran before the iviad ; 

btit. Incited by the hope of further profit, and conceiving thetheiM 
of Cnisoe inexhaustible, he shortly after published Serious re/fe^• 
Hon$ during the Life of BobinsonCrusoey with hi$ Vision oftkeAni^ 
gellc WoriL These Visions and Reflections were welt received ai 
the tirtie although by no means so much in requisition now. 

With the return of his good fortune, our author's health Krit 
re-established, and ibe vigour of his mind restored. He publish^ 
ed, in 17^0, The Life and Piracies of Captain Singleton: aiid fiiM^ 
ing it safer, it would seem, as well as more profitable^ to amitt^ 
the public, than to reform them, he continued this course, vrith 
little variation, for the remainder of his life. 

His subsequent publications, to all of which a cotisiderabk 
degree of popularity was attached, though none of them equalled 
the i*eputation of Robinson Crusoe, were The Dumb PhUoiopher, 
Bistorg of Duncan Campbell, Remarkable Life of Cokmel Jaek^ 
Fortunate Mistress, and New Voyage round the World. 

We are now to take leave of our author, who died in 1731, at 
the age of 68, in Cnpplegate, London, leaving a widow and large 
fiaimily in tolerable cintumstances. 

That De Foe was a man of powerful intellect and lively imagi- 
nation, is obvious fix)m his works; that he was possessed of ai 
ardent temper, a resolute courage, and an unweaiied spiilt of en- 
terprise, is ascertained by the events of his changeful career; and 
vrhatever may be thought of that rashness and improvidence, by 
Which his progress in life was so frequently impeded, there seems 
too reason to withhold from htm the praise of as much, nay more, 
integrity, sincerity, and consistency, than could have been ex^ 
pected in a political author writing for bread, and whose chief 
protector, Hariey, was latterly of a different party from his owtu 
As the author of Robinson Crusoe, his fame promises to endure at 
loojj; as the language in which he wrote. 



So for my late regretted friend. But these trifling sketches of 
literary biography beiog now collected, it seems iojustice.to the 
author of Robinson Crusoe to permit bis memoirstobe iasariad^ 



XII THE LIFE 

out a brief attempt to account for that popularity » which, in his prin- 
cipal work at least, hasequalled that of any author who ever wrote. 
Anil we must, in the first place, remark, that the fertility of De 
Foe was astonishin^j^. He wrote on all occasions, and on ull sub- 
jects, and seemingly had little time for preparation upon the sub* 
ject in hand, but treated it from the stores which his memory re- 
tained of early reading, and such hints as he had caught up in 
society, not one of which seems to have been lost upon him. A 
complete list of De Foe's works, notwithstanding the exertions of 
the late George Chalmers, has not yet been procured, and a per- 
fect collection even of such books as he is well known to have 
written, can scarce be procured, even by the most active biblio- 
maniac. ' The preceding memoir does not notice one half of his 
compositions, all, even the meanest, of which have something in 
them to distinguish them as the works of an extraordinary man. 
It cannot, therefore, be doubted, that he possessed a powerful 
memory to furnish him with materials, and a no less copious vein 
of imagination to weave them up into a web of his own, and supply 
the rich embroidery which in reality constitutes their chief value. 
De Foe does not display much acquaintance with classic learning, 
neither does it appear that his attendance on the Newington semi- 
nary had led him deep into the study of ancient languages. His 
own language is genuine English, often simple even to vulgarity, 
but always so distinctly impressive, that its very vulgarity had, as 
we shall presently show, an efficacy, in giving an air of truth or 
probability to the facts and sentiments it conveys. Exclusive of 
politics, De Foe*s studies led chiefly to those popular narratives, 
which are the amusement of children and of the lower classes ; 
those accounts of travellers who have visited remote countries; of 
voyagers who have made discoveries of new lands and strange na- 
tions; of pirates and bucaneers who have acquired wealth by their 
desperate adventures on the ocean. His residence at Limehouse, 
near the Thames, must have made him acquainted with many of 
those wild mariners, half privateers, half robbers, whom he must 
often have heard relate their adventures, and with whose manners 
and sentiments he thus became intimately acquainted. There is 
reason to believe, from a passage in his Review ( we have unfortu- 
nately mislaid the reference), that he was acquainted with Dam- 
pierre, a mariner whose scientific skill in his profession and power 
of literary composition were at that time rarely found in his profes- 
sion, especially among those rough sons of the ocean who acknow* 
ledgedno peace beyond the Line, and bad as natural an enmity to a 

1 The author has long sought for bis poem teniMd Caladoaia, without beiof 
able to obtalq a sight of it. 



OF DAKIEL DH foe. sill 

Sooth-American Spaniardasa greyhound toa hare, and who^ though 
distinguished by the somewhat milder term of bucaneer, were little 
better than absolute pirates. The English Government, it is well 
known, were not, however, very active in destroying this class of 
adventurers while they confined their depredations to the Dutch 
and Spaniards, and, indeed, seldom disturbed them, if they re- 
turned from their roving life, and sat down to enjoy their ill- 
gotten gains. The courage of these men, the wonderful risks 
which they incurred, their hair-breadth escapes, and the roman- 
tic countries through which they travelled, seem to have had in- 
finitive charms for De Foe. He has written several books on this 
subject, all of which are entertaining, and remarkable for the ac- 
curacy with which he personates the chaftfcter of a bucaneering 
adventurer. The New Voyage round the Worlds the Voyaga and 
Piracies of Captain Singleton, are of this class, and the second part 
of Robinson Crusoe properly belongs to it. De Foe's general ac- 
quaintance with nautical affairs has not been doubted, as he is 
said never to misapply the various sea-phrases, or show an igno- 
rance unbecoming the character under which he wrote. His re- 
marks upon trade, which are naturally mixed with these acix>unts 
of foreign parts, might naturally be expected from one whose 
speculations in every channel of trade had enabled him to write 
An Account of Commerce, and also a work called the English Trades^ 
man, from which he appears to have been familiar with foreign 
countries, their produce, their manners, and government, and 
whatever rendered it easy or difficult to enter into trade with them. 
We may therefore conclude that Purchases Pilgrim, Hackluyfs 
Voyages, and the other ancient authorities, had been curiously 
examined by him, as well as those of his friend Dampierre, of 
Wafer, and others who had been in the South Seas, whether as 
privateers, or, as it was then called. Upon the account. 

Sbylock observes, there are land thieves and water thieves; 
and as De Foe was familiar with the latter, he was not without 
some knowledge of the practices and devices of (he former. We 
are afraid we must impute to his long and repeated imprison- 
ments, the opportunity of becoming acquainted with the secrets 
of thieves and mendicants, their acts of plunder, concealment, and 
escape. But whatever way he acquired his knowledge of low life, 
De Foe certainly possessed it in the most extensive sense, and 
applied it in the composition of several works of fiction in the style 
termed by the Spaniards Gusto Picaresco, of which no man was 
ever a greater master. This class of the fictitious narrative may 
be termed ihe Romance of Roguery, the subjects beiag the ad* 
Tentures of thieves, rogues, vagabonds, and swindlers, including 
viragoes and courtezans. The improved taste of the pi^esent age 



IIY THE LIF£ 

has juslly rejected this coarse speciesof amusement, whiob is, besides, 
calculated to do an infinite deal of mischief among the lower 
classes, as it presents in a comic, or even heroic shape, the very 
crimes and vices to which they are otherwise most likely to be 
tempted. Nevertheless, the strange and blackguard scenes which 
Pe Foe describes, are fit to be compared to the gipsy-boys of th^ 
Spanish painter Murillo, which are so justly admired, as being, in 
truth of conception,^ and spirit of execution, the very chefsHt'ceuwrfi^ 
of art, however low and loathsome the originals from which they 
are taken. Of this character is the History of Colonel Jack^ for ex-* 
mmple, which had an immense popularity among the lower classes; 
that of Moll Flanders, a shop-lifter and prostitute; tliatofilfr«« 
Chrulian Davii, csAledJdother Ross; and that of Roxana, as she U 
termed, a courtezan in higher life. All of these contain stropg 
loarks of genius; in* the last they are particularly predominaol. 
But from the coarseness of the narrative, and the vice and vulga- 
rity of the actors, the reader feels as a well-principled young 
man may do, when seduced by some entertaining and dissolute 
libertine into scenes of debauchery, that, though he may be 
nmused, he must be not a little ashamed of tha( which furnishes 
the entei'taiomcnt. So that, though we could collect from these 
ficaresque romances a good deal that is not a little amusing, we let 
tbepi pass by, as we would persons, howsoever otherwise interest- 
ing, who^iay not be in character and manners entirely fit for goo4 
•Pciety. 

A third species of composition, to which the author's ictiveaoi) 
vigorous genius was peculiarly adapted, was the account of great 
national convulsions, whether by war, or by the pestilence, or the 
tempest. These were tales which are sure, when even moderately 
well told, to arrest the attention, and which, narrated with that 
impression of reality which De Foe knew so well how to convey, 
make the hair bristle and the skin creep. In this manner he has 
written the Memoirs of a Cavalier, which have been often read and 
quoted as a real production of a real personage. Born himself 
Inmost immediately after the Re&toi alion, De Foe must have known 
inany of those who had been engaged in the civil turmoils of 
i642-6, to which the period of these memoirs refers. He must 
have lived among them at that age when boys, such as we conceive 
De Foe must necessarily have been, cling to the knees of those 
wbocap tell them of the darings and the dangers of their youth, at 
a period when their own passions, and views of pressing forward 
in life, have not begun to operate upon their minds, and while they 
itn^ still pleased to listen to the adventures which others luive eo^ 
^unlereid on that stage, which they themselves have not yet ei^ 
|0re4 «{KMB« The Menwirs of a CavaU^ have certainly been ei^icM 



OF BANUCL nS F0£. If 

Witb gome such anecdotes as were likely to fire De Foe'a actiTe and 
poweif ul imagiDation, and hint to him in what colours the subjed 
ought to be treatecJ. 

The contrast betwixt the soldiers oF the celebrated Tilly, and 
those of the illustrious Gustavus Adolphus, almost seems loo mi* 
BUteiy drawn to have been executed from anything short of ocular 
testimony. But De Foe's genius has shown^ in this and other ib- 
Itances, how completely he could assume the character he de- 
scribes. 

The troops of Tilly are thus described : — 

'Uthat bad seen Tilly's army, and his old weather-beates 
soldiera, whose discipline and exercises were so exact, and their 
<pourage so often tried, could not look on ihe Saxon army without 
tQOif concern for them, when I considered who they had to deal 
with. Tilly's men were rugged surly fellows, their faces bad an 
W of hardy courage, mangled with wounds and scars, their ar- 
mour showed the bruises of i^usket bullets, and the rust of the 
winter storms. I observed of them their clothes were always 
dirty, but their arms were clean and bright ; they were used to 
camp in the open fields, and sleep in the frosts and rain ; their 
horses were strong and hardy like themselves, and well taughl 
Ibeir exercises; the soldiers knew their business so exactly thai 
general orders were enough ; every private man was fit to command, 
9fiA their wheelings, marchings, countermarchin{;s, and exercise, 
were done with such order and readiness, that the distinct words 
of command were hardly of any use among them ; they were flush- 
ed with victory, and hardly knew what it was to fly." ■ 

The disci pliue of Gustavus Adolphus is thus favourably con- 
trasted with that of his enemy : — 

** When I saw the Swedish troops, their exact discipline, their 
order, the modesty and familiarity of their officers, and the re- 
gular living of the soldiers, their camp seemed a well-ordered 
^ty; the meanest country woman, with her market- ware, was as 
lafe from violence as in the streets of Vienna. There were no re- 
giments of whores and rogues as followed the imperialists ; nor 
9ny women in the camp, but such as being known to the provosts 
lo be the wives of the soldiers, who were necessary for washing 
Unen, taking care of the soldiers' clothes and dressing their vic- 
tuals. « 

'^ The soldiers were well clad, not gay, furnished with excellent 
^rms, and exceeding careful of them ; and though they did not 
aeem so terrible as I thought Tilly's men did when I first saw them, 
yet the figure they made, together with what we had heard! of 

> Memoin of a Cavalier* vol. I. cb. Vi, 



x^t THE Ltf E 

them, made tbem seem to me invincible ; the discipline and order 
of their marchings, campings, and exercise, was excellent and sin- 
gular, and whieh was to be seen in no armies but the king's, Bis 
own skill, judgment, and vigilance, having added much to the ge- 
neral conduct of armies then in use." ' 

When the Great Rebeliicin broke out in England, in which the 
supposed author is cictively engaged, the following slight touch 
more completely brings home the miseries of an internal contest 
than could a whole volume of reflections on the subject. 

''I was now, by the king's particular favour, summoned to the 
councilsof war, my father continuing absent and ilh and I began 
to think of the real grounds, and, which was more, of the fatal 
issue of this war. I say I now began it; for I cannot say that I 
ever rightly stated matters in my own mind before, though I had 
been enough used to blood, and to see the destruction of people, 
sacking of towns, and plundering the country; yet it was in Ger- 
many, and among strangers ; but I found a strange, secret, and un- 
accountable sadness upon my spirits to see this acting in my own 
native country. It grieved me to the heart, even in the rout of 
our enemies, to see the slaughter of them ; and even in the fight, 
to hear a man cry for quarter in English, moved me to a commi- 
seration which I had never been used to ; nay, sometimes it looked 
to me as if some of my own men had been beaten ; and when I 
I heard a soldier cry, God, I am shot! I looked behind me to see 
which of my own troop .was fallen. Here 1 saw myself at the 
cutting of the throats of my friends ; and, indeed, some of my 
near relations. My old comrades and fellow-soldiers in Germany 
were some with us, some against us, as their opinions happened 
to differ in religion. For my part, I confess 1 had not much re- 
ligion in me at that time ; but 1 thought religion, rightly practised 
on both sides, would have made us all belter friends." *■ 

The History of the Great Plague in London is one of that particu- 
lar class of compositions which hovers between romance and 
history. Undoubtedly De Foe embodied a number of traditions 
upon this subject with what he might actually have read, or of 
which he might otherwise have received direct evidence. The sub- 
ject is hideous almost todigust ; yeteven had he not been the author 
of Robinson Crusoe, De Foe would have deserved immortality for 
the genius which he has displayed in this work, as well as in the 
Memoirs of a Cavalier. This dreadful disease, which, in the lan- 
guage of Scripture, might be described as ** the pestilence which 
walketh in dai'kness, and the destruction that wastelh at noon- 

< Memoirs of a GaTalier, vol. J. oh, ir. 
• Ibid. vol. n. cb. ti. 



OF DANIEL DE FOE. if u 

day,'* was indeed a fit subject for a pencil so veracioas as that of 
De Foe; and, accordingly, he drew pictiires almost too horrible lo 
look upon. 

It is a wonder how so excellent a subject as the Great Fire of 
London should have escaped the notice of De Foe, so e^ger for 
subjects of a popular character. Yet we can hardly r^ret this, 
since, 1)esides the verses of Dryden in the Anmu MhraUBs, the ac* 
counts by two contemporaries, Evelyn and Pepys, have sketched it 
in all its terrible brilliancy. 

The Great Storm, which, on 96th November, 1705, in Addison's 
phrase, '^ o'er pale Britannia passed," was seized upon by De Foe 
as a subject for the exercise of his powers of description. But as 
it consists in a great measure of letters from the country, wretch* 
ed pastoral poetry (for De Foe was only a poet in prose), and si- 
milar buckram and binding used by bookmakers, it does not do 
the genius of the author the same credit as the works before 
named. 

A third species of composition, for which this mnltiforions au« 
thor showed a strong predilection, was that upon theurgy, magic, 
ghost-seeing, witchcraft, and the occult sciences. De Foe dwells 
on such subjects with so much unction, as to leave us little doubt 
that he was to a certain point a believer in something resembling 
an immediate communication between the inhabitants of this worhl, 
and of that which we shall in future inhabit. He is particularly 
strong on the subject of secret forebodings, mysterious impres- 
sions, bodemenls of good or evil, which arise in our own mind, 
but which yet seem impressed there by some external agent, and 
not to arise from the course of our natural reflections. Perhaps 
he even acted upon these supposed inspirations; for the following 
passage plainly refers to his own history, though, whether he 
speaks for the nonce> or means to be seriously understood, we 
cannot pretend to judge, though we incline to the latter opi- 
nion. 

** I know a man who made it his rule always to obey these silent 
hints, and he has often declared to me, that when he obeyed them, 
he never miscarried ; and if he neglected them, or went on con- 
trary to them, he never succeeded ; and gave me a particular case 
of his own, among a great many others, wherein be was thus di- 
rected. He had a particular case befallen him, wherein he was 
under the displeasure of the government, and was prosecuted for 
a misdemeanour, and brought to a trial in the King's Bench Court, 
where a verdict was brought against him, and he was cast; and 
times running very hard at thai time against the party he belonged 
to, he was afraid to stand the hazard of a sentence, and absconded, 
taking care to make due provision for his bail, and to pay ^beon 



ivM TBE UFK 

I 



iriiilefer tlwy Mif^ saffer. In this circrnnstance be mm In great 
ibtrcsa, aad bo way presei^d imto him but to ftjr out ^f the king- 
dom« which, being to leave his family, children, and einptoytnent, 
was very bitter tefhin,. and he kaew not what todo; aM Itfs friends 
advisiiiy hifli not to put bimself into the bands of the hiv, wbteb^ 
tbeagb the offense was not capkat, yet, m bis (^^ennii^noes^ seeiii^ 
ed tatbreaten- his after ruin. In this extremity, he felt one mon^ 
lag ^aal as be bad awaked, and ike thoughts el bis misftM'tiiiies be- 
(jan to return upon him), I say he felt a strong impulse dartibg hito* 
bis Bftind tbus,^ Write a tetter io tkem : it spok« so distinetty to biin» 
and a» it were fbreiblyy that, as be has often said stoee, be can 
aoaree persuade bbnself not to bebeve but that he beard ft ; bei be 
grams that he did not really bear it, too. 

^^However, in repeated the words daily and hourly to him, tin at 
Ittigth, walking; about i» his chamber where be was bidden, ?er^ 
peoMve and' sad, it jogged him again, and he answered atoud ft> if, 
as if it had been a voice. Whom shall I write to? It returned mi- 
mediately. Write fo the judge. This pursued htm again for several 
da^, till at length he took bis pen, ink, and paper, and sat dowft 
te write, but be knew not one word of what be should say ; but^ 
JBoMUcr m hoc horn, be w^ied not words. If was immediately 
mipressed on bis mind, and the word^ flowed upon his pen in a' 
manner that even' charmed himself, and filled bim with expecta- 
tmns of success. 

^* This letter WJ|s so strenuous in argument, so pathetic in its elo- 
qoenee, and so moving and persuasive, that, as soon as the judge 
veed it, be sent bim word he should be easy, for he would endea*- 
WKir to make dial maner light to him, and, in a word, never left 
liK be obtained to stop prosecution, and restore him to his liberty 
aiidhisftmiily."- 

Whatever were Be Poe'» real sentiments on those mystie ^ub- 
jeeia, tbene i» no doubt that be was fond of allowing his mhid to 
dwell on them; and, either from his own taste, or because he ree- 
boned tbem peculiarly calculated to attract the notice of a nume- 
Mtts^dass of readers, many of bis popular publications turn upon 
snpemtural visitation. Thus he wrote '^ An Essay on the historf 
and reality of Apparitions; being an account of what they are, and 
what tbey are not; whence they come, and whence they come 
oer; aa ateo how we may distinguish between the apparitions of 
goi$d and eril spirits, and bow we ought to behave to them. " 
libia Euoff on Apforiiume was afterwards published under the 
ot'lfpnon. DeFoe, mder the name of John Beaumont, Es^., 



' UDMittOn Gnnoe's VUion ottbe Angelick World, pp. 48, 49, 50. Londoa* 



OF DANIEL DE FOE. sn 

imiit A Treatiie of Sphiis, Apparitions, Witchcraft, and other Ma- 
ffical Practices: containing an Account of Gemi and Fomt/ter Spirits, 
^. In both of these works De Foe's i^easoning, if it can be called 
fSia^h^ belongs to the Platonic System of Dr. Henry More, but is oot 
t^ry consistent either with that or with itself. Oo the other hand, 
the examples, or, In other words, the stories of gliosts and magie, 
l^ltb which we are favoured, arc remarkably well toM, or rather^ 
i^e should say« composed, and that with an air of perfect veracity, 
Which nebody so well knew how to preserve as our author. To 
tbiselassof his writings must he added (he Life of Duncan Camp^ 
^eti, the Conjuror and Fortune-teller, a fellow who pretended to be 
deaf and dumb, and to tell fortunes, and whose reputation was such 
at the lime, that De Foe thought his name would sell more than one 
book, and also wrote the Spy on the Conjuror; for, pi'cssed by his 
eireum6tances to seek out such subjects as were popular for the 
fnonj^tft, our author was apt to adhere to those which he had already 
(H^ied with approbdtion. Thus, he not only wrote a second part 
lb Robinson Crusoe, which is greatly inferior to the first part of 
that inimitable romance, but he drc^w a third draft on the popuia- 
Hty which it had ac(]uired him, by a work of the mystiral kind to 
Which we have just alluded. This last seems the perfection of book- 
making. It is termed. Serious Reflections during the Life ofRobiU" 
Ml Crusoe, with his Vision of the Angelical World, The contents 
fire, in general, trite enough reflections upon moral subjects ; and 
though Robinson Crusoe's solitary state is sometimes referred to> 
Staid the book is ornamented with a bird's-eye view of the memo- 
fable island, yet it contains few observations that might not have 
been made by any shop-keeper living at Charing-Cross. Thus 
May the ricliest source of genius be exhausted, and the mostpien- 
tifol flow of invention drained off to the very dregs. 

Besides those three several species of romantic Action, in each of 
which Daniel De Foe was a copious author, his uoweaiied pen was 
atee turned to moral and philosophical subjects, to those which re« 
late to the economy of life, to liistory, and to statistics and descrip- 
tive subjects* He wrote Travels in North and South Rintain: he 
Unvote a History of the Union; he wrote an incorrect History 6fthe 
Church of Scotland, from the Restoration to the Revolution, None 
ef these historical woi ks are of much value, except, |ierhaps, the 
Mktory of the Union, which is little more than a dry journal of what 
ftiissed in the Scottish Parliament upon that remaikable occasion; 

£t De Foe must have had an interesting tale to teil, if he had cho- 
S it. But, writing under Hailey's patronage, he cramped his 
SHiuij probably, to avoid the risk of giving offence to the irritable 
ibtlisli nation. Among his numerous political tracts, the most 
interestiDgpertia{)si8^ TkcHitUiry o/Adctresm^ which, written with 



i 



w THE life: 

great power of sarcasm, places in a ludicrous and contemptible 
light, that mode of communication between the people and the 
throne. All must recollect the story of Richard Cromwell, who, 
in removing from Whitehall, no longer his own> begged that par- 
ticular care might be taken of a large chest, which contained, he 
said, ''all the lives and fortunes of England,'* pledged, of course, 
in support of the Second Protector, by those who now saw him, 
with the utmost indifference, dragged from the seat of government. 

It is not, however, of such political subjects that we have under- 
taken to treat. The multifarious author whose head imagined, 
and whose pen executed, such variety of works upon them, that it 
is a labour even to collect their names, must be now treated of 
solely in his character of a writer of fictitious composition. 

And here, before proceeding to attempt a few observations on 
Robimon Crusoe in particular, it may be necessary to consider 
what is the particular charm which carries the reader through, not 
thai chef-d'oeuvre alone, but others of De Foe's compositions, and 
inspires a reluctance to lay down the volume till the tale is finish- 
ed ; and the desire, not generally felt in the perusal of works of 
fiction, to read every sentence and word upon every leaf, insteafi 
of catching up as much of the story as may enable us to understand 
the conclusion. 

It cannot be the beauty of the style which thus commands the 
reader's attention ; for that of De Foe, though often forcible, is 
rather rendered so by the interest of a particular situation than by 
the art of the writer. In general the language is loose and inac- ' 
curate, often tame and creeping, and almost always that of the 
lower classes in society. Neither does the charm depend upon the 
character of the incidents ; for although in Robinson Crusoe the in- 
cidents are very fine, yet in the History of the Plague the events 
are disgusting, and scarce less in those works where the scene lies 
in low life. Yet, like Pistol eating his leek, we go on growling and 
reading to the end of the volume, while we nod over many a more 
elegant subject, treated by authors who exhibit a far greater com- 
mand of lan{][uage. Neither can it be the artful conducting of the 
story, by which we are so much interested. De Foe seems to 
have written too rapidly to pay the least attention to this circum- 
stance ; the incidents are huddled together like paving-stones dis- 
charged from a cart, and have as little connection between the one 
and the other. The scenes merely follow, without at all depend- 
ing on each other. They are not like those of the regular drama, 
connected together by a regular commencement, continuation, and 
conclusion, but rather resemble the pictures in a showman's box, 
which have no relation further than as being inclosed within the 
same box, and subjected to the action of the same string. 



/ OF DANIEL DE F0£. iii 

To what, then , are we to ascribe this general charm attached 
to the romances of De Foe? We presume to answer, that it is 
chiefly to be ascribed to the unequalled dexterity with which our 
author has given an appearance of reality to the incidents which 
he narrates. Even De Foe's deficiencies in style, his homeliness 
of language, his rusticity of thought, expressive of what is called 
the Crassa Minerva^ seem to claim credit for him as one who speaks 
the truth, the rather that we suppose he wants the skill to conceal 
or disguise it. The principle is almost too simple to need illustra- 
tion, and yet^ as it seems to include something of a paradox, since 
in fact it teaches that with the more art a stoiy is told, the less 
likely it is to attract earnest attention, it may be proved by refc* 
rence to common life. If we meet with a friend in the street, who 
tells us a story containing something beyond usual interest, and 
not of every-day occurrence, our feeling with respect to the trutli 
of the story will be much influenced by the character of the nar« 
rator. If he is a man of wit or humourt and places the ludicrous 
part of the tale in the most prominent point of view, the hearer 
will be apt to recollect that bis friend is a wag, and make some 
grains of allowance accordingly. On the other hand, supposing 
the person who communicates the narrative to be of a sentimental 
or enthusiastic character, with romantic ideas and a store of words 
to express them, you listen to his tale with a sort of suspicion 
that it is too well told to be truly told, and that though it 
may be at bottom* real, yet it has been embroidered over by the 
flourishes of the narrator. But if the same fact be told by a man 
of plain sense, and sufficient knowledge of the world, the minute- 
ness with which he tells the story, mixing up with it a number of 
circumstances which are not otherwise connected with it, than as 
existing at the same moment, seems to guarantee the truth of what 
he says; and the bursts, whether of mirth or emotion, which ac« 
company the narrative, appear additional warrants of his fidelity, 
because neither is the usual mood of his mind. Yoi/ believe, as 
coming from such a person, that which upon other information 
you might have thought an imposition, as Benedict credits the re- 
port of Beatrice's affiection towards him, because *' the fellow with 
the grey beard said it." 

In the testimony of such a person upon a subject which is at all 
interesting, we generally detect some point which ascertains the 
eye*witness, and some expression which would seem to have only 
occurred to an individual who had heard and seen the facts to 
which bespeaks. Those who are in the habit of attending courts 
of justice, during the leading of evidence, frequently hear not only 
firom men or women of observation, but from " iron^witted foots 
and unrespective boys," such striking circumstances as the lx>llow« 



ins - ^ horrible murder had been committed by n intB apdfi a 
person ^i^hom be had invited into his house in friendship » ^Nf 
were alone to{;ether when the deed was done, and the murder^f^ 
throwing on his coat, hastily left the house before the deed wa| 
discovered. A child of twelve or thirteen years old (;ave evidencfp 
that she was playing in the under pait of the dwelliqg, and heart} 
the accused pci*son run hastily down stairs, and stumble ^tl thf 
threshold. She said she was very much frightened at the noi^sbff 
heard ; and being asked whether she had ever before thought of 
being frightened by a man running hurriedly down stairs, $|if 
replied no, but the noise then made was like no other $he hdd evef 
heard before. The poet of the most active imagination woul4 
hardly have daretJ to inscribe such impressive effects to the wild 
and precipitate retreat of guilt in making its escape frono justice^ 
This peculiar effect upon the child's imagination we might hav# 
doubted if we had read it in fiction, and yet how striking it ber 
comes^ heard from the mouth of the child herself I 

It is no doubt true, that, in assuming this peculiar style of narrative* 
the author does so at a certain risk. He debars himself froufi tb* 
graces of language, and the artifice of narrative ; he must sometime^ 
seem prolix, someiinies indistinct and obscure, though possessing 
occasional points of brilliancy ; in which respect his story may r%^ 
semblesome old Catholic towns on the Continent, where the streets 
are left in general darkness, saveai those favotireilspots where lanipf 
are kept burning before the altars of particular saints; whereas^ n 
regularly composed nariaiive represents an English CQuntry towQt 
so well lighted throughout, that no particular spot, scarce f von th$ 
dwelling of Sir. Mayor, or the window of the apothecary, caQ 
exhibit any glow of peculiar lustre. And certainly it is the l^t 
style ivhich should be attempted by a writer of inferior g^niasi 
for though it be possible to disguise mediocrity by fine writing, i| 
appears in all its native inanity, when it assumes the gai t^ of sirVH 
plicity. Besi<jes, this peculiar style of writing requires that tbn 
author possess King Fadlallah's secret of transmigrating from mi 
body to another, and possessing himself of all the qualities which 
he finds in the assumed character^ retaining bis own tt^sbs «m) 
judgment to direct them. 

Sometimes this is done, by the author avowedly taking iipon 
himself an imaginary personage, and writing according to his sup? 
posed feelings and prejudices. What would be the Vicar ef 
Wakefield's history unless told by the kindest and worthiest pedant 
that ever wore a cassock, namely, the Vicar himself? And wb^ 
would be the most interesting and affecting, as well as the moil 
comic, passages of CoHle Rackrent, if narrated by one who hud • 
less regard for '* the family" than the immortal Th«df t wh^ wliit 



OF BMrOX JM FOE. «0i 

Ji6 sees thai noiie of the dynaay which he cetebimM were perfeeilf 
rigbl» has never been able to puu\t oui whereifi Uiey were eer- 
lainly wrongs Mr. Gall s country Proi^M* and Ml more his re- 
verend AnncUiUofihe Parish, should be also distiogiiished ia this 
class. Wordsworth, himself^ has assiiflKdy in one of his affieetinf 
poems, the cbaraeter of a sea^fariag person retired lo nettle in 
the country. 

These are» however, all ^arael^s of masquemdo : we believe 
that of D0 Foe was entirely natnral to him. The high-born C*- 
vulieTy for instance, speaks nearly the same species of langiiagn» 
and shows scarce a greater knowledge of sooiety than Bobiiwm 
Crmoe; only be has a east of the grenadier about him, as the other 
has the trim of a seaman, i. It is greatly to be doubted whether 
De Foe could have changed bis coUoquiaU cireuitous, and peri* 
phrastic style for any other, whiHher more coarse or more elegant. 
We have little doubt it was connected with bis nature, and the 
particular turn of his thoughts and ordioary expressions^ and that 
he did not succeed so much by writing in an assumed manner^ as 
by givipg full scope to his own. 

The subject is so interesting, that it is worth While examinmg it 
a little more closely, with wbiisb view we have reprinted, as iiius«> 
trating our commentary on what may be called the plmuible style 
of composition, *^ The True History of the Apparition of out 
JA^B, Veal the next day after her Death* tooiie Mrs. Bargrave, at 
(Santerbury, the eighth of September, 170$, which Ap|»arition ran- 
^mmends the perusal of Drelinoourrs liook of Consolation against 
the Fears of Death." We are induced lo ihis^ beokuae the an* 
oount of the origin of the pamphlet is curious, the pamphlet itself 
short, amJ» though ooee highly popular, now little read or known* 
and particularly because De Foe has put in ferce» within these few 
pages, peouliar specimens of his art of recommending the most im- 
probable narrative, by bis specious and serious mode of telling it. 

An adventurous bookseller had ventured to print a oonsiderable 
edition of a work by the Reverend Charles Drelinoourt, minister 
of the Calvinist Church in Paris, and translated by M. D'Assigny, 
under the title of the ** Christian's Defence against the Fear of 
Death, with several directions how to prepare ourselves to die 
well/' But however certain the prospect of death, it is not so 
agreeable (unfortunately) as to invite the eager contemplation of 
the pubUc; and Drelincourt*s book, being neglected, lay a dead 
stock on the hands of ihe publisher. In this emergency, he ap** 
plied to De Foe to assist him (by dint of such means as were then^ 
as well as now, pretty well understood in the literary vrorld), in 
rescuing the unfortunate-book from the literary death to whiA 
general oeglect seemed about to consign it. 



ixif THE LIFE 

De Foe's genius and aadacity devised a plan which, for assu- 
rance and ingenuity, defied even the powers of Mr. Puff in the 
Critic: for who but himself would have thought of summoning up 
a ghost from the grave to bear witness in favour of a halting body 
pf divinity? There is a matter-of-fact, business-like style in the 
whole account of the transaction, which bespeaks ineffable powers 
of self-possession. The narrative is drawn up '' by a gentleman, 
a Justice of Peace at Maidstone, in Kent, a very intelligent per- 
son." And, moreover, '' the discourse is attested by a very sober 
and understanding gentlewoman, who lives in Canterbury, within 
a few doors of the house in which Mrs. Bargrave lives. " The 
Justice believes his kinswoman to be of so discerning a spirit, as 
not to be put upon by any fallacy — ^aiid the kinswoman positively 
assures the Justice, 'Uhat the whole matter, as it is related and 
laid down, is really true, and what she herself heard, as near as 
may be, from Mrs. Bargrave*s own mouth, who, she knows, had 
no reason to invent or publish such a story, or any design to forge 
and tell a lie, being a woman of so much honesty and virtue^ and 
hei* whole life a course, as it were, of piety." Scepticism it&elf 
couki not resist this triple court of evidence so artfully combined, 
the Justice atlesting for the discerning spirit of the sober and un- 
derstaiiding gentlewoman his kinswoman, and his kinswoman be- 
coming bail for the veracity of Mrs. Bargrave. And here, gentle 
reader, admire the simplicity of those days. Had Mrs. Veal's visit 
to her friend happened in our time, the conductors of the daily 
press would have given the word, and seven gentlemen unto the 
said press belonging, would, with an obedient start, have made off 
fop Kingston, for Canterbury, for Dover, — for Kamtschatka, if 
necessary, — ^to pose the Justice, cross-examine Mrs. Bargrave, 
confront the sober and understanding kinswoman, and dig Mrs. 
Veial up from her grave, rather than not get to the bottom of the 
story. But in our time we doubt and scrutinize ; our ancestors 
wondered and believed. 

Before the story is commenced, the undtrstanding gentleHFOman 
(not the Justice of Peace), who is the reporter, takes some pains 
to repel the objections made against the story by some of the 
friends of Mrs. YeaFs bi'other, who consider the marvel as an as- 
persion on their family, and do what they can to laugh it out of 
countenance.- Indeed, it is allowed, wiih admirable impartiality, 
that Mr. Veal is too much of a gentleman to suppose Mrs. Bar- 
grave invented the story — scandal itself could scarce have suppos- 
ed that-— although <Hie notorious liar, who is chastised towards 
the conclusion of the story, ventures to throw out such an insi- 
nuation. No reasonable or respectable^ person, however, could 
be found to countenance the su^icion, and Mr. Veal himself 



OF DANIEL DE FOE. n? 

opined that Mrs. Bargraye had been dmen crazy by a cruel 
husband, and dreamed the whole story of the apparition. Now * 
-ail this is sufficiently artful. To have Touched the fiict, as uni- 
vei'sally known and believed by every one, nan. con., would not 
have been half so satisfactory to a sceptic, as to allow fairly that 
the narrative had been impugned, and hint at the character of one 
of those sceptics, and the motives of another, as sufficient to ac- 
count for their want of belief. Now to the fact itself. 

Mrs. Bargrave and Mrs. Veal had been friends in youth, and 
had protest^ their attachment should last as long as they lived ; 
but when Mrs. Veal's brother obtained an office in the customs at 
Dover, some cessation of their intimacy ensued, '* though without 
any positive quarrel." Mrs. Bargrave had removed to Canter- 
bury, and was residing in a house of her own, when she was 
suddenly interrupted by a visit from Mrs. Veal, as she was sitting 
in deep contemplation of certain distresses of her own. The vi- ' 
^lor was in a riding-habit, and announced herself as prepared for 
a distant journey (which seems to intimate, that spirits have a con- 
siderable distance to go before they arrive at thdr appointed 
station, and that the females at least put on a habii for the oc- 
casion). The spirit, for such was the seeming Mrs. Veal, con- 
tinued to wave the ceremony of salutation, both in going and 
coming, which will remind the reader of a ghostly lover's reply to 
his mistress, in the fine old Scottish ballad : 

Why should I come within thy bower? 

I am no earthly man; 
And sbooid I Idas thy rosy Ups, 

Thy daya would not be lang. 

They then began to talk in the homely style of middle-aged ladies, 
and Mrs. Veal proses concerning the conversations they bad for- 
merly held, and the books they had read together. Her very 
recent experience probably Jed Mrs. Veal to talk of death, and the 
books written on the subject ; and she pronounced, ex caihedr&f 
as a dead person was best entitled to do, that ''Drelincourt's book 
on death was the best book on the subject ever written." She 
also mentioned Dr. Sherlock, two Dutch books which had been 
translated, And several others; but Drelincourt, she said, had the 
clearest notions of death and the future state of any who had 
bandied that subject. She then asked for the work [we marvel 
ihe edition and impress had not been mentioned ], and lectured 
4H1 it with gi*eat eloquence and affection. Dr. Kenrick's Axcetick 
<was also mentioned wilhap|irobatiun by this critical specune [ the 
Doctor'a work vjfts^ no doubc« a t^ant of the shelf in some fa^ 



yojurite publisher's sbnp ] ; and Ur. Norris's Poem on 
— a work wbichy 1 doubt, (hough honoured with a ghost's appro- 
))jation, we may now seek for as vainly as Gorrelli tormented b^ 
memory to recover the sonata wiiich Uie devil played to him in a 
dream. Presently after, from former habits we may suppose, 
the (][host desires a cup of tea ; but^ bethinking herself of her new 
character, esiuipes from her own proposal • by recollecting thai 
Mr. Bargrave was in the habit of breaking his wife's china. It 
would haye been indeed strangely out of character if the spirit 
^ad lunched, or breakfasted upon tea and toast* Such a opa- 
summation would have .sounded as ridiculous as if the statue of 
the Commander in Don Juan had not only accepted of the invit»> 
tion of the libertine to sut)pery but had also committed a beef*- 
steak to his fliniy jaws and stomach of adamant. A little morp 
conversation ensued of a less serious nature, and tending to show^ 
that even the passage from life to death leaves the female anxiety 
about person and dress somewhat alive. The ghost asked Mni^ 
Bargrave wheiher $he did not think her very much altered, an4 
Mrs. Bargrave of course complimented her on her good 1qo!(9^ 
Mrs. Bargrave also admired the gown which Mrs. Veal wore; andt 
as a mark of her perfectly restored confidence, the spirit let her 
into the important secret, that it was a scoured silkf aqd lately 
made up. She informed her, also, of another secret, namelft 
that one Mr. Bretton had allowed her ten. pounds a-ye|ir; and, 
lastly, she requested Uiat Mrs. Bargrave would write to her 
brother, and tell him how to distribute her mourning^rings, and 
mentioned there was a purse of gold in her cabinet. She express- 
ed some wish to see Mrs. fiargrave's daughter; but when that 
good lady went to the next door to seek her, she found on her re- 
turn the guest leaving the house. She had got without the door. 
In the Street, in the foce of the beast-market, on a Saturday, wbicb 
is naarket^day, and stoed ready to part. She said she must be 
going, as she had to call upon her cousin Watson (ihis appears to 
be a grata dictum on the part of the ghost), and, maintaining the 
^racter of mortality to the last, she quietly turned the corner, 
and walked out of sight. 

Then came the news of Mrs. Yeal's having died the day bdow 
at noon. Says Mrs. Bargrave, ^' I am sure she was with me on 
Saturday almost two hours. " And in comes Captain Watson, and 
says Mrs. Veal was certainly dead. And then come all the f ieees 
of evidence, and especially the striped silk gown. ThenMrs. Wa& 
sen cried out, '^ You have seen her indeed, for none knew but 
Mrs. Veal and I that that gown was scoured ; " and she cried that 
the gown was described exactly, for, said she^ *^I helped her to 
flSike it up. " And next we have the silly et^Bqrta nndo to dii* 



OF BA!QDEL BS FOE. OW 

«p«dit the. histoFy. Eyen Hr. Vcai, her brother, was obliged m 
allow that the gold was found, but with a difFerence, and prt»- 
tendecl it was not found in a cabinr*t, but elsewhere ; and, in sb0rt» 
we have all the gossip of says I, tkwi thinki I, and tagg ghe, and 
tkiuks she, which disputed matters usually excite in a country 
town. 

When we have thus turned the tale the seam without, it may 
be thought too ridiculous to have attracted notice. But whoew 
will read it, as told by De Foe himself, will agree that, could II10 
thing have happened in reality, so it would have been told. The 
lobering the whole supernatural visit into ibe language of middle 
or low life, gives it an air of probability even in its absurdity. 
The ghost of an exciseman's housekeeper, and a seamstress, wert 
not to converse like Brutus with his Evil Genius : and the cirouu^ 
stances of scoured silks, broken tea-china, and such like, while they 
are the natural topics of such persons' conversation, would, one 
might have thought, be the last which an inventor would have iur 
troduced into a pretended narrative betwixt the dead and liviaf. 
In short, the whole is so distinctly circMmsiantial that, were it uoc 
lor the impossibility, or extreme improbability at least, of such «i 
occurrence, the evidence could not but support the story. 

The effect was most wonderful; DrtRncamt upon Deaths attested 
by one who could speak from experience, took an unequalled rum 
The copies had hung on the bookseller's hands as heavy as a pile of 
lead bullets. They now traversed the town in every direction^ like 
the same balls discharged from a field-piece. In short, the object 
pfMrs. Veal's apparition was perfectly attained. 

The air of writing with all the plausibility of truth must, in al* 
most every ease, have its own peculiar value ; as we admire the 
paintings of some Flemish artists, where, though the subjeoCi 
drawn are mean and. disagreeable, and such as in nature we wouhl 
not wish to study or look close upon, yet the skill with which 
they are represented by the painter gives an interest to the imita* 
tioQ upon canvas which the original entirely wants. But, on the 
Other hand, when the power of exact and circumstantial delinnatiMi 
is applied to objects which we are anxiously desirous to see in their 
proper shape and colours, we have a douMe source of pleasure 
both in the :|rt of the painter, and in the interest which we take in 
the subject represented. Thus the style of probability with which 
fie Foe invested his narratives, was perhaps ill bestowed, or rather 
wasted Ujvtn some of the works which he thought proper to pro* 
duce, and cannot recommend to us the subject of Colonel Jack 
and Moll Flanders; but, on the other hand, the same talent throws 
an air of truth about the delightful history of Robinton Oioae, 
lAJcb we never could have bdieved it possible to have uniicd h^ 



wni THE LIFE 

«o extraordinary a situation as is assigned to the hero. All the 
usual scaffolding and machinery employed in composing fictitious 
history are carefully discarded. The early incidents of the tale, 
vhich in ordinary works of invention are usually thrown out as 
pegs to hang the conclusion upon, are in this work only touch^ 
upon, and suffered to drop out of sight. Robinson, for example, 
never hears anything more of his elder brother, who enters Lock- 
hart's Dragoons in the beginning of the work, and who, in any 
common romance, would certainly have appeared before the con- 
clusion. We lose sight ai once and for ever of the interesting 
Xury ; and the whole earlier adventures of our voyager vanish, not 
to be recalled to our recollection by the subsequent course of the 
story. His father — the good old merchant of Hull-— all the other 
persons who have been originally active in the drama, vanish from 
the scene, and appear not again. This is not the case in the or- 
dinary romance, where the author, however luxuriant his inven- 
tion, does not willingly quit possession of the creatures of his ima- 
gination, till they have rendered him some services upon the 
scene; whereas in common life, it rarely happens that our early 
acquaintances exercise much influence upon the fortunes of our 
future life. 

Our friend Robinson, thereafter, in the course of his roving 
and restless life, is at length thrown upon his Desert Island, a situ- 
ation in which, existing as a solitary being, he became an example 
of what the unassisted energies of an individual of the human raoe 
can perform ; and the author has, with wonderful exactness, de«- 
scribed him as acting and thinking precisely as such a man must 
have thought and acted in such an extraordinary situation. 

Pathos is not De Foe's general characteristic— he had too little 
delicacy of mind ; when it comes, it comes uncalled, and is created 
by the circumstances, not sought for by the author. The excess, 
for instance, of the natural longing for human society which Cru- 
soe manifests while on board of the stranded Spanish vessel, by 
felling into a sort of agony, as he repeated the words, '* Oh, that 
but one man had been saved !— Oh, that there had been but one V 
is in the highest degree pathetic. The agonizing reflections of the 
solitary, when he is in danger of being driven to sea, in his rash 
attempt to circumnavigate his island, are also affecting. 

In like manner we may remark, that De Foe's genius did not ap* 
proach the grand or terrific. The battles, which he is fond of de- 
scribing, are told with the indifference of an old bucaneer, and pro- 
bably in the very way in vrtiich he may have heard them recited by 
the actors. His goblins, too, are generally a commonplace sort of 
spirit«, that bring with them very little of supernatural terror; and 
yet the fine incident of the print of the naked foot on the^and^ with 



->« 



OF DANIEL DE F0£. uu 

RMmon Oiuoe's terrors in consequencey never foil to letve a 
powerful impression upon ihe reader. 

The Supposed situaiion of his hero was peculiarly favourable to 
the circumstantia! style of De Foe. RoUnwn Crusoe was placed 
in a condition where it was natural that the slightest event should 
make an impression on him ; and De Foe was not an author who 
would leave the slightest event untold. When. he mentions that 
two shoes were driven ashore, and adds that they were not neigh- 
bours, we feel it an incident of importance to the poor soli- 
tary. 

The assistance which De Foe derived from Selkirk's history^ 
seems of a very meagre kind. It is not certain that he was obliged 
to the real hermit of Juan Fernandr^ even for the original hint ; for 
the putting mutineers of turbulent character on shore upon soli- 
tary places, was a practice so general among the bucaneers, that 
there was a particular name for the punishment; it was called nuh 
rootling a man. De Foe borrowed peihaps, from the account in 
Woodes Rogers, -the circumstance of the two huts, the abundance 
of goats, the clothing made out of their skins ; and the turnips of 
Alexander Selkiik may have perhaps suggested the com of Robin- 
son Crusoe. Even these incidents, however, are so wrought up 
and heightened, and so much is added to make them interesting, 
that the bare circumstance occurring elsewhere^ cannot be said to 
infringe upon the author's claim to originality. On the whole, in- 
deed, Robinson Crusoe is put to so many more trials of ingenuity, 
bis comforts are so much increased, his solitude is so much diver- 
sified, and his account of his thoughts and occupations so distinctly 
traced, that the course of the work embraces a far wider circle of 
investigation into human nature, than could be derived from that 
of Selkirk, who, for want of the tools and conveniences supplied to 
Crusoe by the wreck, relapses into a sort of savage state, which 
could have afforded little scope for delineation. It may, however, 
be observed, that De Foe may have known so much of Selkirk's 
history, as to be aware how much his stormy passions were checked 
and tamed by his long course of solitude, and that, from being a 
kind of Will Atkins, a brawling dissolute seaman, he became (which 
was certainly the case) a grave, sober, reflective man. The manner 
in which Robinson Crusoe's moral sense and religious feeling are 
awakened and brought into action, are important passages in the 
work. « 



' We should lay more on this subject, were it not that Mr. Howel, of Edio- 
borgb, a person etery way qaalifled for tbe task, has collected seferal parUcolars 
eoneeming tbe bfstory of Selkirk, tbe prototype of Robimoo Gmsoe, wbtob h0 
^Mgw fbortty to lay before the pnbUc. 



THE UFK 

Amid thes^ detoltory remarks, it may be noticed that, throniffc 
all his romances, De Foe has made a great deal of ihe narratiTe de^ 
fiend opon lucky hits and accidents, ^vhich, as he is usually at some 
fiaitis to explain, ought rather lo be termed providential occur- 
rences. This is coupled ^ilh a bf Jtef in spiritual commonicatioB 
in the way of strong internal suggestions, to which De Foe, as we 
have seen, was himself sufficiently willing to yield belief. Odd 
and surprising accidents do, indeed, frequently occur in human 
life ; and when we hear them narrated, we are interested in them, 
not only from the natural lendency of the human mind towards the 
6lttraordinary and wondeiful, but also because we have some dispo- 
(rition to receive as truth circumstances, which, from their impro- 
hsibility, do not seem likely to be invented. It is the kind of gOod 
fel*lunei too, which every one wishes to himself, which comes with* 
^tit etertioui and just at the moment it is wanted ; so that it gives a 
tort of pleasure to be reminded of the possibility of its arrival, ereli 
iti fietion. 

The continuation of Robinson Crusoe'9 history, after he obtains 
the society of his man Friday, is less philosophical than that which 
turns our thoughts upon the efforts which a solitary individual 
may make for extending his own comforts in the melancholy situa^ 
tion in which he is placed, and upon the natural reflections su{»- 
Ifested by the progress of his own mind. The character of Friday 
h nevertheless extremely pleasing ; and the whole subseauent his* 
tory of the shipwrecked Spaniards and the pirate vessel is highly 
interesting. Here, certainly, the Memoirs of Robinson Crusoe 
ought to have stopped. The Second Part, though containing 
ftiany passages which display the author's genius, does not rise 
bigh in character above the Afemoirx of Capmin Singleton^ or the 
either imaginary voyages of the author. 

There scarce exists a Wi)rk so popular as Robinson Crusoe. It is 
read eagerly by young people; and there is hardly an elf so devoid 
itf Imagination, as not to have supposed for himself a solitary island 
in which he could act Robinson Crusoe, were it but in the corner of 
ihe nursery. To many it has given the decided turn of their lives^ 
fcy sending them to sea. For the young mind is much less struck 
Kfith the hardships of the anchorite's situation than with theani- 
ittiating exertions which he makes to overcome them ; and Robinson 
Brui^ produces the same impression upon an adventurous spirit 
which the Rook of Martyrs would do on a young devotee, or the 
Newgate Calendar upon an acolyte of Bridewell; both of which stu- 
dents are less terrified by the horrible manner in which the tale 
terminates, than animated by sympathy with the saints or depreda- 
lirs wh<i are the heroes of their volume. Neither does a re-pernaal 
pf Robinson Crusoe, at a more advanced age^ diminiib oar early 



OF BAMEL BE FOE. 

impressions. The situation is such as every man may make his 
own, and, being possible in itself, is, by the exquisite art of the nar- 
rator, rendered as probable as it is inioresting. It has the merit, 
too, of that species of accorate painting which can be looked at 
again and again with new pleasure. 

Neither has the admiration of the work been conBned to England^ 
though Robinson Crusoe himsetf with his rough good sense, his 
prejudices, and his obstinate determination not to sink under evils 
which can be surpassed by exertion, forms no bad specimen of the 
True-born Englishman. The rage for imitating a work so popu- 
lar seems to have risen to a degree of frenzy ; and, by a mistake 
not peculiar to this particular class of the servton pecus^ the imita- 
tors did not attempt to apply De Foe*s manner of managing the 
narrative to some situation of a different kind, but seized upon aad 
caricatured the principal incidents of the shipwrecked mariner aad 
ibe solitary islaad. It is computed that, within forty years fipoar 
Ae appearance of the original work, no less than fbrty*oiie diffe- 
rent ife^sonsappeared, besides fifteen other imitations, in which 
other titles were used. Finally, though perhaps it is no great re- 
commendation, the antisocial philosopher Roiisseao will aMow no 
other book than Robinson diuoe in ttie hands of EmiKus. Upon 
the whote, the work is as unlikely to lose its celebrity as it ii 
to be equalled in its peculiar character by any other of similar at* 
ceUence. 



APPENDIX. 



Nb. I. 



SOMB ACCOUNT OF ALEXANDER SELKIRK. 



WooDn Rooras, who relieved Selkirk from his solitude, was commodore of a 
commercial eipedHioa round the world, which sailed Febmary f 709, and retmn- 
ed to^rilaio 1 7 If . A project for the re-settlemeot of the Rabama Islands having 
been submitted to Mr. Addison (then secretary of state) in f 7f 7, the measure was 
f!etermined on, and Rogers was appointed to head the expedition. He died go- 
iremor of those islands in f732. The following is the account he gives of his 
meeting, off the island of Juan Fernandez, with Alexander Selkirk :— 

*<0n February fst, 1700, we came before the island of Juan Fernandez, hav- 
ing had a good observation ihe day before, and found our latitude to be 31 degrees 
10 minutes south. In the afternoon, we hoisted out our pinnace; and Capfaio 
Dover, with the boat's crew, went in her to go a&hore, though we could not be 
less than four leagues off. As soon as the pinnace was gone, I went on board 
the Duchess, who admired our boat attempting going ashore at that distance from 
land. It was against my inclination : but to oblige Captain Dover, I let her go. 
As soon as it was dark, we saw a light ashore. Our boat was then about a 
league off the island, and bore away for the ships as soon as she saw the lights. 
We pot oof lights aboard for the boat, though soma were of opinion, the lights 
we saw were our boat's lights; but, as night came on, it appeared too large for 
that. We flred our quarter-deck gun and several muskets, showing lights in our 
mfzen and fore-shrouds, that our boat might find us whilst we were in the lee of 
the island : about two in the morning our boat came on board, having been two 
hours on board the Duchess, that took them up astern of us; we were glad they 
got well off, because it began to blow. We were all convinced the light was on 
the shore, aud designed to make our ships ready to engage, believing them to be 
French ships at anchor, and we must either fight them, or want waier. All this 
stir and apprehension arose, as we afterwards found, from one poor naked man, 
who passed in our imagination, at present, for a Spanish garrison, a body of 
Frenchmen, or a crew of pirates. While we were under these apprehensions, 
we stood on the liack side of the island, in order to fall in wiih the southerly wind, 
till we were past the island; and then we came back to it again and ran close 
Bboard the land that begins to make the north-east side. 

" We still continued to reason upon this matter ; and it is in a manner Incre- 
dible, what strange notions many of our people entertained from the sight of the 
fire upon the island. It served, however to show people's tempers and spirits; 
and we were able to give a tolerable, guess how our men would behave, in case 
there really were any enemies upon the island. The flaws came heavy off the 
shore, and we were forced to reef our topsails when we opened the middle bay, 
where we expected to have found our enemy; but saw all clear, and no ships, nor 
in the other bay next the north-east end. These two bays are all that ships ride 



OF DANIEL UR FOE. miu 

Jo, vbich reqnAt on ibis island; but flie middle bay is by mmh (be bait We 
gaessed there had been ships there, hot that they were gone oo sight of as. We 
sent our yawl ashore abont noon, with Captain Dofer, Blr« Fry» and di omd, all 
armed : Meanwhile we and the Dochess kept tnmiog to get in, and soch bea?y 
flaws came oft the land, that we were forced to let go our topnil-sbeet, fca^n^ 
all turnds to stand hy our sails, for fear of the wind's carrying them away : Bat when 
the flaws were gone, we had little or no wind. These, flaws proceeded from the 
land, which is Tery high in the middle of the island. Oar boat did not relnni; we 
sent our piooace with the men armed, to see what was the occasion of the yawl'a 
stay ; for we were afraid that the Spaniards had a garrison there, and migfat ba?e 
seized them. We pat oat a signal for oar boat, and tlie Duchess showed a Franeli 
ensign. Immediately our pinnace returned from the shore, and brooght abon- 
dance of cray-fish, with a man clothed in goats' skins, who looked wilder than flie 
first owners of them. 

He had been on the island four years and four months, being, left there by 
Captain Stradling in the Qoque Ports; bis name was ALHAiiDia Saiibk, a 
Scotchman, who had been master of the Cinque Ports, a ship that came here Imi 
with Captain Dampier, who told me, that this was the best man in her. I jm-« 
mediately agreed with him to be a mate on board onr ship : It was be that made 
the fire last night when he saw onr ships, which be judged to be Engilsb. Iteiqg 
his stay here he saw se?eral ships pass by, bat only two came to anchor* Aa be 
went to ?iew them, he found them to be Spaniards, and retired from Itiem, npoa 
which they shot at him : Had they been French be would have sabmitled; bat 
chose to risk his dying alone on the island, rather than bll into the bands of the 
Spaniards in these parts; because he apprehended they woold murder him, or 
make a sla?e of him in the mines; for he feared they ¥roold spare no straBger, 
that might he capable of disco?ering the South Seas. 

'* The Spaniards had landed, before he knew what they were; and they came 
so near him, that he had much ado to escape; for they -not only shot at bim, hot 
pursued him to the woods, where he dimbed to the top of a tree, at the foot of 
which they made water, aod killed seTcral goats just by, but went off again 
without discoTeriog him. Be told us that be was bom in Scothiod, and was bred 
a sailor from his youth. The reason of liis being left here, was a difference 
between lu'm and his captain; which, together with the ship's being leaky, mado 
him williog rat her to stay here than go along with him at fiiat ; bnt when he was 
at last willing to go, the captain would not reoeive him. He had been at the 
island before, to wood and water, when two of the ship's company were left vpon 
it for six months, till the ship returned, being cbased- thence by two Fiencfa 
Soulh-Sca ships. He had with him his dothesand beddiag, with a flrelock{ some 
powder, bullets, and tobacco, a hatchet, a knife, a kettle, a Bible, some practical 
pieces, and his mathematical instruments and books. He di?erled and provided 
fbr himself as well as he could; but for the first eight months, had much ado to 
bear up against melancholy, and the terror of being left alone in such a desolate 
place. He built two huts with pimento-trees, cotered them with long grass, and 
lined them with the skins of goats, which he killed with his [gun as he wanted, 
so long as bis powder lasted, which was but a ponod; and. that being almost 
spent, he got fire by rubbing two sticks of pimento wood together upon his 
knee. In the lesser hut,, at some distance from the other, he dressed his 
victuals ;. and in the larger, he slept, and employed himself in reading, singing 
psalms, [and praying; so that he said, he was a better Christian, while in this 
solitude, than ever be was befope,..or than, he was afraid, he should ever be 
again.. 

"At first he never ate anything till hunger constrained him, partly for grief, and 
partly for want of bread and salt : Nor did he go to bed, till be could watch no 
longer; the pimento-wood, which burnt very clear, served him both for fire and 
candle^ and refreshed him with its fragrant smell. He might have had fish enough, 

c 



iniT THE LIFE 

but would not eat them fbr want ofsalt, became they occasioned a looseness, except 
cray-flsb, which are as large as our lobsters, and yery good : These he sometimes 
boiled, and at other times broiled ; as be did his goats' flesh, of which he made very 
good broth, for they are not so ranlc as ours. He kept an account of 500 that he 
idlled while there, and caught as many more, which he marked on the ear, pnd 
let go. Wjien bis powder failed, he took them by speed of foot; for his way of 
iifiog, continual exercise' of waUdng and runoing, cleared bim of all gross hn- 
moors ; so that he ran with wonderful swiftness through the woods, and up the 
rodcs and hills, as we perceived when we employed him to catch goats for us : 
We had a bull-dog, which "Are sent with sereral of our nimblest runners, to help 
him In catching goats; but he distanced and tired both the dog and the men, 
caught the goats, and brought them to us on his back. 

<< He told us, that his agility in pursuing a goat had once like to have cost him 
hulife; he pursued it with so much eagerness, that be catched hoM of Hon 
the brink of a precipice, of which he was not aware, the bushes hiding 
it from him; so that he fell with the goat down the precipice, a great height, 
and was so ftunned and bruised with the fall, that he narrowly escaped with his 
life; and, when he eame to his senses, found the goat dead under him : He lay 
there about twenty-four hours, and was scarce able to crawl to his hut, which 
was about a mile distant, or to stir abroad again in ten days. 

<* He came at last to relish his meat well enough without salt or bread; and, 
in the season, had plenty of good turnips, which bad been sowed there by Cap- 
tain Dampier's men, and bare now overspread some acres of ground. He had 
enough of good cabbage from the <»hbage-trees, and seasoned bis meat with^ the 
fndt of Ibe pimento-trees, which is the same as Jamaica pepper, and smells de- 
lidously. He found also a Mack pepper, called Malageta, which was very good 
to expel wind, and against griping in the guts. 

** Be soon wore out all his shoes and clothes by running in the* woods; and, at 
last, being forced to shift without them, his feet became so hard, that he ran 
every where without dlfBcnlty ; and it was some time before he could wear shoes 
after we found him ; for not being used to any so long, his feet swelled, when he 
came first to wear them again. 

*' After he had conquered his mefancholy, he diverted himself sometimes with 
cutting his name on the trees, and the time of his being left, and continuance 
there. He was at first much pestered with cats and rats, that bred in great 
numbers, from some of each species which had got ashore from ships that put in 
there to wood and water. The rats gnawed his feet and clothes whilst asleep, 
which obliged him to cherish the cats with his goats' flesh, by which many of 
them became so tame, that they would lie obout Mm in hundreds, and soon 
delivei^ him from the rats. He likewise tamed some kids ; and, to divert 
himself, woMd, now and then, sing and dance with them, and his cats : So that 
by the fevour of Providence, and vigour of his youlh, being now but thirty years 
M, he came, at last, to conquer all the inconveniences of his solitude, and to be 
very easy. 

** When his clothes were worn out, he made himself a coat and a cap of goat- 
skins, which he stitched together with little thongs of the same, that he cut with 
his knife. He had no other needle but a nail; and when his knife was worn to 
the hadk, he made others, as wefl as he could, of some iron hoops that were left 
ashare, which he beat thin, and ground upon stones. Having some linen-cloth 
by him, he sewed bim some shirts with a nail, and stitched them with the worsted 
of bis old stockings, which he pulled out on purpose. He had his last shirt on 
when we found him in the island. 

" At bis first coming on board us, be had so moehPforgot his language, for want 
of use, that we eould scarce understand him; for he seemed to speak his words by 
halves. We offered him a dram; but he would not touch it, having drank 
nothing but water since his being there; and it was tome time l)efore he could 



OF DAMKL M FOE. 

telbh oor victuals. He ooold gi?6 ub an acoooot of no othflr pfodoot of flio 
island tban what we have meotiooed, except sonie black plnni, wbleh aro verf 
goody but bard to come at; the trees wbioh bear tben ipnowing on high nMNHfr- 
lains and rocks. Pimento-brees are plenty here ; and we saw some of siity fsnt 
high, end about two yards thick; and cotton-trees higiier, and near four CithoaH 
<>ound id the stock. The climate is so good« that the trees and grass are ? erdaot 
tf 1 the year round. Tbe winter laais no longer than June and July, and is nol 
then severe, there being only a smaii irost, and a little bail ; bat somaliwaa gmi 
rains. Tbe heat of tbe summer is equally moderate; and there la not tamdk 
thunder, or tempestuous weather of any sort. He saw no venomons or savago 
creature on tbe island; nor any «ort of heasts hut goats, the first of which bad 
been put ashore here, on purpose for a breed, by Juan Femandes, a Spaniard, 
who settled there with aome families, tiH tbe oaatinent of Chili began to submit 
to the Spaniards; which being more profitable, tempted them to quit this Islaotf, 
capable, however^ of maintaining a good nm^er of people, and being made so 
atrong, that they cmild not be easily dislodged from thence." 

We are indebted ibr tbe following additional particulars, respecting the life and 
late of this singular characier, to the research of tiie lale A. Gibson Hunter, Esq. 
of Bakkelly, in Scotland; who, we believe, was m poisessioB of his will, anl 
some other curious relics. Through this gentleman we learn, that SelUrk waa 
born at Largo in Fife, in the year 1676, wliere he possessed some trifling landed 
property. When young, be manifested a violent and torbnlent dlspositloi^ 
which was not probably improved during bis bucaneerlng trips, b«t received a 
sodden and permanent check by his solitary eonflnement on this desolate island* 
He went mate with Captain Stradling, in ibe Cinque Ports, oo a trading voyage 
round the worM, in 1704. In the course of which, a diffarenee arising betwiat 
him and bis captain, ttie causes of which oMist now remain for ever uneiplained^ 
Selkirk, vrith all the hardihood of a seaman's ehameter, desired to be landed oa 
the island of Femandei. Here be remained io perfect solitude, eiistittg as he hit 
ideicribed himself, until discovered by Captain Rogers. Selkirk died on board a 
idng's ship, the Weymoath, of which he was mate, in 1723; leaving his effBoAs, 
by wiU, to sundry " loving female friends,'* with whom he had eontraoted inlf- 
naades in the course of IHs peregrinations. His chest, his gun, and his drinkiag 
flup, the last made of a cocoa-nut shdl, are, or were till lately, the property «f 
liis daaoendants at Lai^o. 



No. 11. 

A true MiOaiion of the Apparition of one Mrs. Vecd, the neait dtiyafierkmr 
death, to one Mrs. Bargrave, at Canterbury, the eighth of September, 1705, 
which AppaHtion recommends the perusal ofDrsUneourt's Mook ofdmeo- 
leBtions against the fear of Death, 

Tab Pbbfacb.— This relation is matter of fact, and attended withaueh cironm- 
stances es may induce any reasonable omu to believe it. It was sent by a gen- 
tleman, a Justice of Peace at Maidstone, in Kent, and a very intelligent persos, 
to bis friend in London, as it is here worded; which discourse is attested liy a very 
sober and understanding gentlewoman, a kinswoman of tbe said gentieman'a, 
who lives in Canterbury within a few doors of tbe bouse in which tbe witlijn- 
named Mrs. Bargrave lives; be believes bis kinswoman to be of so discerning a 
spirit, as not to be put upon by any fallacy; and who positively assured him ihat 
the whole matter, as it is refaited and laid down, is really true, and what she herself 
bad in the same wwds (as near as may be), from Mrs. Bargrave's own mouth, 
who she knows had no reason to invent aod publish such a story, or any design to 
torge and tell n lie; being a woman of much honesty aod virtue, and her whole 

c. 



«xti THE LIFE 

Wfb a (totihe as it were of piety. The ufe which we ought to make of [t i«, to 
comider, that there is a life to eome after this, and a just God who will retribute 
40 every one according to the deeds done in the body; and therefore to reflect 
upon our past course of life we have led in the world; that our time is short and 
uncertain ; and that, if we would escape the punishment of the ungodly, and receive 
*he reward of the righteous, which is the laying hold of eternal life, we ought for 
the time to eome, to return to God by a speedy repentance, ceasing to do e?i!, 
and learning to do well, to seek after God early, if haply be may be found of us, 
and lead such lives for the future, as may be well-pleasing In his sight. 



A RELATION OF THE APPARITION OP MRS. VEAL. 

• 

This thing is so rare in all its circumstances, and on so good authority, that my 
reading and conTersation has not given me anything like it. It is fit to gratify the 
most ingenious and serious enquirer. Mrs. Bargrave is the person to whom 
•Mrs. Veal appeared after her death ; she Is my intimate friend, and I can avouch 
ibr her reputation, for these last tlfleen or sixteen years, on my own knowledge; 
and I can confirm the good character she had from her youth to the time of my 
acquaintance. Though since this relation, she is calumniated by some people 
.that arc friends to the brother of Mrs. Veal, who appeared ; who think the relation 
of this appearance to be a reQection, and endeavour what they can to blast 
•Mrs. Bargrave's reputation, and to laugh the story out of countenance. But by 
(hecirenmstances thereof, and the cheerful disposition of Mrs. Bargrave, notwith- 
standing the ill usage of a very wicked husband, there is not yet the least sign of 
dejecUon in her face; nor did I ever hear her let fall a desponding or murmuring 
exf)r(?88ion ; nay, not when actually under her husband's barbarity, which I have 
been a witness to, and several other persons of undoubted reputation. 

Now, you must know Mrs. Veal was a maiden gentlewoman of about thirty 
.yeai's of age, and for some years last past had been troubled with fits, which were 
perceived coming on her by her going off from her discourse very abruptly to 
some impertiiienGea She was maintained by an only brother, and kept his house 
ia Dover: She was a very pious woman, and her brother a very sober man, to 
all appearance ; but now he does all he can to null and quash the story. Mrs. Veal 
was intimately acquainted with Mrs. Bargrave from her childhood. Mt», Veal's 
circumstances were then mean ; her father did not take care of his children as he 
ought, so that they were exposed to hardships. And Mrs. Bargrave in those days 
had as unkind a father, though she wanted neither for food nor clothing, while 
Mrs. Veal wanted for both; insomuch that she would often say, ** Mrs. Bargrave, 
you are not only the best, but the only, friend I have in the world ; and no circum- 
stance of life shall ever dissolve my friendship." They would often condole each 
other's adverse fortunes, and read together Drelincourt upon Death, and other 
good books; and so, like two Christian friends, they comforted each other under 
their sorrow. 

- Some time after, Mr. Veal's friends got him a place in tlie Custom House, at 
•Dover, which occasioned Mrs. Veal, by littio and little, to fall off from her inti- 
nii^cy with Mrs. Bargrave, though there was never any such thing as a quarrel ; 
•but an indilTerenry came on by degrees, till at last Mrs. Bargrave had not seen her 
in two years and a half, though above a twelvemonth of the time Miv. Bargrave 
hath been absent from Dover, and this last half year has been in Canterbui7 about 
two months of the time, dwelling in a house of her own. 

In this house, on the eighth of Septemlier, one thousand seven hundred and five, 
'She was sitting alone in the forenoon, thinking over her unfortunate life, and 
'arguing herself into a due resignation to Providence, though her conditiou seemed 
bard ; "Audy" said she, *<I have been provided for hitherto, and doubt oot (>ut 



OF BiMEL HE FOE. ttttH 

liball be tffll; and cm weD ntkHed IMiiiy afKetiooi thiR cad wte it ii mMl 
fit for 'me." And theo took up ber vewiog work, wliieb the had no wMmcr Anw. 
but she bearaa koocking at Ibedoor; the went to aee who wai there, and tMa 
proTOd to be Mrs. Veal, ber oM frieiid, wbowai io a ridiag hahit ; At thai bo. 
neot of time, the ckxA struck twel? e at nooo. 

< < Madam/' says Mrs. Bargra?e, «< I am am-prind Io lae joa, yoa hate boas m 
long a stranger;" bat loM ber she was glad Id see ber, and offerad tosriolaher. 
which Mrs. Veal complied with, tin their iipe ahnort toothed, and then Mis. Tctf 
drew tier baod aeron ber own eyes, and said, «* I am nol very wd,** and m 
waTcd It. She told Mrs. BargraTC she was going a jooniey, and had a gnat alod 
to see ber first. *< But," saysMrs. Bargmve, «< how can yoo takea jovney aiawf 
1 am amaied at it, because I know yon liaYe a fond brother.*— «* Oh," says 
Mrs. Teal, '* I gave my Iwolber tlie dip, and cameaway, became I had so groat 
adesirotosee yonbeforoltookmyjomney." So Mrs. Bargraro want te wM 
her intoanother room within the flnt, and Mrs. Veal sat her down io an cHiow 
chair, in which Mrs. Bargnfexrat sitting when she hem^ Hn. Veal knock. 
" Then," says Mrs. Veal, *< my dear friend, Iamcometoreoewom>oidlHend*ip 
again, and begyonr parrlonfor my breacfaoflt; and if yoo can tbrgiro bm, yo« 
are the best of women."— '< Ob." says Mn.BargnTe, <«do noC mention sneh a 
thing ; I bafc not bad an nneasy thought about it; I can earily foigivo H.**— 
*' What did yon think of me ? " said Mrs. Veal. Saya Mrs. Bargrave, «« I lhoi«hl 
yon wera like the rest of the world, and that prwperHy had made yoa toigal 
yourself and me." Tben Mrs. Veal remfaided Mrs. Bargrave ofthe many IHaBdiy 
offices she did her in former days, and much of the conv e iia li o n tliey had with 
each other in the times of their adTcrsity; what books they road, and what com* 
fort in particnhir they reoeiTCd from Dreii n com i' s Book of Death, which was tlw 
best, she said, on the subject ever wrote. She also men t i o ned Dr. Shertoek, and 
two Dutch boob, which wero traosfaited, wrote upon death, and sevcnl olhan. 
BatDrelinconH, she saM, bad the clearest notions of dealh, and of the fnlnro stala, 
of any who bad bandied that subject. Tben she asked Mrs. Baignva whether she 
bad Dr^iiicoort? She said, «Yes." Says Mrs. Veal, '*Pelch it." And ao 
Mrs. Bargrare goes upstairs, and brings it down. SayaMn. Veal, •'Dear 
Mrs. Bargrave, if the eyes of our failh wero m open m the ayes of our body, 
we slioold see numbers of angels alMmt ua fur our gnard. Tlie aotlonB we 
have of Heaven now, aro nothing like what ttis, m Drettneoui aaya; IharefMn 
be comforted under your afflictions, and believe that the Almighty bm a parii • 
cuiar regard to you, and that your afflictions are marks of God's iiVonr; and 
vrtien tbey have done the Imsiness ttiey are aeot for, they shall he reawvad 
from you. And believe me, my dear friend, bellere what I say Io yon, one m^ 
note of future happiness will inflnitely reward yon Ibr all yonr solferiqgk For 
I can never believe (and daps ber band upon lier knee with great earnertnwi, 
which, indeed, ran through most of her disooorse) that ever God will snfllv 
yon to spend all your days in tbii afflicted state. But be assured that your afflle- 
lions shall leave you, or you them, io a short time." She spake in that pathetical 
and heavenly manner, that Mrs. Bargrave wept several times, aho was ao deeply 
affected with it. 

Tben Mrs. Veal mentioned Dr. Kenrick's Ascetick, at the and of vrhicfa he gives 
an account oftbelives of the primitive Cbristians. Their pattern she recommended 
to our iraitatioo, and said, "Their convemtioo was not like this of our age. 
For now," says she, "there Is nothing but vain frothy discourse, wbk^ is fltt* 
different ft*om theirs. Tbeii^ was to ediflcatioo, aod to build one another up in 
ftiitb, to that tbey were not 9»'me are, nor are we as tbey were. But," said she, 
** we ought to do as tbey did ; there was an hearty ft^iendship among them ; hot 
where is it now to be found ? " Says Mrs. Bargrave, " It is hard indeed to find a 
true friend in these days." Says Mn. Veal, '* Mr. Norris has a fine copy of verse*» 
called FriMidshlp in Perfoolioo, which I wonderfhily admire* Have yen seen 



•fsfHi mc un 

of my owo writiog OBt."— ''Hare yoo?*' says Mrs. Veal : ''tbeo fetch them^'' 
whkb the did frooi above stain, aod offered tbeoi to Mn. Yeal to read, who 
jrefiisedt and waved tbe thing, say ing, *' holding down her bead woold nuke it 
ach ; '* and then desiring Mrs. Bargrave to read them to her, which she did. A$ 
Ihey vera admiring Friendship, Mrs. Veal said, ** Dear Mrs. Bargrave, I sbaH lore 
jWi lor ever/' In these verses there is twice used the word ** Elysiao. " — ^'▲b,* 
atfi Mn. Veal, "these poets have such names for Heaven!" She woiddoftaB 
4raw her band across her own eyes, and say, " Mrs. Bargrave, do not yen UiMk 
iam mightily unpaired by my fits?" «Mo,"says Mrs. Bafgrave^ "1 tbiakTOn 
looks as well as ever I knew yon«" 

After this disooarsoi which the apparition pot in much finer words than 
Mrs. Baigrave said she coold pretend to, and as modi BMre than she can iv- 
flember ( for it eannot be ttionght that an boor and three quarters' eonveraatio* 
Mifid all be retained;, thoogh the main of it she thinks she does), she aaid lo 
Jbs. Bargrave she would have her write a letter to her brother, and tell bun she 
wMld have bia^ive rings to such and such; and that there was a purse of goM 
in her eabinet, and (bat she wonld have two broad pieces given to her ooosIb 
Watson. 

Talking at this rate* Mrs. Bai^grave thought that a fit was coming opon her, and 
ao placed herself on a chair jost before her knees, to keep her from fidling to the 
ground, Kher fits should occasion it; for the elbow chau*, she thought, woaU 
keep her irora falling on either side. And to divert Mrs. Veal, as she thoogbft, 
look hold of ber gown sleeve several times, and commended it Mrs. Veal lold 
ber it wns a scoured siik, and newly made np. Bat for all this, Mn. Veal persisted 
in her request, and told Mn. Bargrave she must not deny her. And she wooM 
have ber UXi her brother all their conversation when she had opportumty . 
** Dear Mn. Veal," says Mn. Bargrave, " this seems so impertinent, that I cannot 
tnU how to oolnply with it ; and what a mortifying story will oor conversation he 
io a young gentleman! Why," says Mrs. Bargrave, ''it is mndi belter, me- 
thinfca, to do it yonrself."--'' Mo," says Mn. Veal, " thouf^ it seems impertineot 
to you nowk yon wiH see more reasons for it hereafter." Mn. Bargrave* then, io 
aatisfy ber importnntty, was going to fetch a pen and ink, bat Mn. Veal said, 
** Let It alone now, but do it wheni am gone; Iwt you moat be sure to do it;" 
wMeh was one of the last things she enjoined her at partuig, and eo she pronriaad 
Ber. 

Then Mrs. Veal asked for Mn. Bargrave's daughter; she said she was mgftdt 
hammt "but if you have a mind to see her," says Mn. Bargrave, <<1 11 aend fir 
Imt.^— " Do," says Mn. Veal; on which she left lier, and went to a neighbour's Id 
•e^k her; and by the ttme Mn. Bargrave was returning, Mn. VeM was got witlMNit 
Hm door, in the street, in the faoe of the beas^raarket on a Saturday ( which is 
market day ), and stood ready to part as soon as Mn. Bargrave came to her. She 
Miked her why she was in such haste. She said she must be going, tfaougb perhaps 
ahe might not go ber journey till Monday ; and told Mn. Bargrave she hoped she 
fhonM see her again at her cousin Watson's. before she went wbUiier she wap 
going. Then she said, she would take her leave of her, and walked IhNB 
Mn. Baiigrave, in her view till a turning ialeFnipted the sight of her, which was 
tlHree quarlen after one in the afternoon. 

Mn. Veal died the 7tb of September, at twelve o'clock at noon, of her fits, and 
iiad not above four honra' senses before her death, in which time she received 
tbe sacrament. The next day after Mn. Veal's appearance, being Sunday, 
Mn. Bargrave was mightily indbpesed with a rold and a sore throat, that she 
eould not go out that day; but on Monday morning she sends a person to Gap- 
tain Watson's to know if Mrs. Veal was there. They wondered atMn.Bar- 
grare's inquiry, and sent her word she was not there, nor was expected. At this 
fionrop, Afre. Bargrave told the maid she had certainly mistook the oane, or made 



OF DAIOEL DE FOE. iim 

some binoder. And though she tras iH, she pat on her bood, and weal hendf to 
Captaio Watson's, thongb she-lmew none of the fiiinily, to tee If Mn. Veal was 
there or not. They said they wondered at her asidng, for that she had not been 
in town ; they were sure, if she had, she would have been there. Saya Mrs. Bar* 
graye, ** I am snre she was with me on Saturday abnost two boors." They said It 
was Impossible, for they most have seen her if she had. In oomes Captain 
Watson, while they were' in dispute, and said that Mrs. Veal was certainly dead, 
and the escotcbeons were making. This' strangely surprised Urs. BaiigraTe. when 
she sent to tfie person immediately who bad the care of them, and foond it tnie. 
Then she related the whole story to Captain Watson's fimUy; and what gown 
she had on, and bow striped ; and that Mrs. Veal told her it was sooored. Then 
Mrs. Watson cried ont, **Ton faaf e seen her indeed, for none knew, but Mrs. Veal 
and myself, that the gown was scoured." Aod Mrs. Watson owned that she 
described tbe gown exactly ; ** for," said she, *'l helped her to make it up.** 
This Mrs. Watson blamed all about the town, and aTooebed tbe demonshnallooof 
tbe trath of Mrs. Bargra?e's seeiog Mrs. Veal's apparition. And Captain Watson 
carried two gentlemen immediately to Mrs. Bargrare's bouse, to bear the retaUon 
from her oWn mouth. And when it spread so last, that gentlemen, and persona 
of quality, the judicious and sceptical part of the world, floeked In upon her, it al0 
last became such a task, that she fras forced to go out of the way; for they were 
in general extremely satisfied with the troth of the thing, and plainly saw that 
Mrs. BargraTO was no hypocbondriack, for she always appears with soeba cbeerfol 
air, and pleasiog mieo, that she has gained the fiiTonr and esteem of all the 
gentry : and it is thought a great fiiYoor if they can hut get the relation from her 
own mouth. I should haTe told yon before, that Mrs. Veal told Mrs. Bargrave that 
her sister and brother-in-law were jost come down from London to see her. 
Says Mrs. Bargra?e, " How came you to order matters so strangely? "~" Itcoold« 
not be helped," said Mi:s. Veal. And her brother and sister did come to see her, 
and entered the town of Dover just as Mrs. Veal was expiring. Mrs. Bargrave 
asked her whether she would drink some tea. Says Mrs. Veaf, <* Ido not care if 
I do : bnt I '11 warrant yon this mad fellow (meaifiog Mrs. Bargrave's husband ) 
has broke all your trinkets."—*' But," says Mrs. Bargrave, " I'll get something to 
drink in for all that; « but Mrs. Veal waved it, and said, ** It is no matter; let it 
alone :" and so it passed. 

All the time I sate with Mrs. Bargrave, wbidi was some hours, she reoollceted 
fresh sayings of BIrs. Veal. And one material tbing more she told Mrs. Bargrave, 
that old Mr. Bretton allowed Mrs. Veal ten pounds a-year, which was a secret, and 
unknown to Mrs. Bsrgrave till Mrs. Veal told her. 

Mrs. Bargrave never varies in her story, which pnsiles those who doubt of the 
truth, or are unwiltiog to believe it. A servant in the neighbour's yaixl adjoining 
to Mrs. Bargrave's house beard her talking to somebody an hour of the time 
Mrs. Veal was with her. Mrs. Bargrave weat out to her next neighbour's the 
very moment she parted with Mrs. Veal, and told her what ravishing conversation 
she had with an old friend, and told the whole of it. Drelincoort's Book of Death 
^ since this happened, bought up strangely. And it is to be observed, that^ 
notwithstanding all tbe trouble and fatigue Mrs. Bargrave has undergone on this 
account, she never took tbe value of a ferihiog nor suffered her daughter to take 
anything, of anyliody, and therefore can have no^ interest in telling the story. 

But Mr. Veal does what he can to stifle the matter, and said he wouM see 
Mrs. Bargrave ; but yet it is ceriain matter of fact that be has been at Captain 
Watson's since the death of bis sister, and yet never went near Mrs. Bargrave ; 
and some of bis friends report ber to be a liar, and that she knew of Mr^Bretton's 
ten pounds a-year. But tbe person who pretends to say so, has the reputation to 
be a notorious liar among persons whom I know to bo of undoubted credit. 
Now, Mr. Veal is more of a gentleman than to say she lies ; but says a bad husbancf 
has crazed her ; bnt she needs only present herself, and it will effectually confute 



XL THE LIFE OF DAIOEL DE FOE. 

that preteofse. Mr. Veal says he asked bis sister oo her dealh-bed whether she 
had a mind to dispose of anything ; And she said no. Now, the things which 
Mrs. Veal's apparition would have disposed of, were so trifling, and nothing of 
jostice aimed at in the disposal, tliat the design of it appears to me to be only in 
order to make Mrs. Bargraye so to demonstrate the tmth of her appearance, as to 
satisfy the world of the reality thereof, as to what she had seen and heard ; and 
to secure her reputation among the reasonable and understanding part of man- 
kind. And then again, Mr. Veal owns that there was a purse of gold ; but It was 
not found in her cabinet, but in a comb-box. This loolu improbable, for that 
Mrs. Watson owned that Mrs. Veal was so very careM of the- key of her cabinet 
that she would trust nolody with it; and if so, no doubt she would not trust her gold 
out of it. Aod Mrs. Veal's often drawing her hands over her eyes, and asking Mrs. 
Bargraie, whether her fits, had not impaired her, looks to me, as if she did it on pur- 
pose to remind Mrs. Bargrare of her fits, to prepare her not to think it strange that 
she should put her upon writing to her brother, to dispose of rings and gold, which 
looked so much like a dying person's request; and it took accordingly with Mrs. 
Bargrare as the effect of her fits coming upon her, and was one of the many 
instances of her wonderful lo?e to her and care of her, that she should not be 
^affrighted, which, indeed, .appears in her whole management, particularly in her 
coming to her in the day-time, waving the salutation, and when she was alone ; 
and then the manner of her parting, to prevent a second attempt to salute her. 

Now, why Mr. Veal should think this relation a reflection ( as it is plain he doea 
by his endeatonriog to stifle it y, I cannot imagine ; because the generality believe 
her to be a good spirit, her discourse was so heavenly. Her two great erranda 
were, to comfort Mrs. Bargrave in her affliction, and to ask he^ forgiveness for her 
breach of friendship and with a pious discourse to "encourage her. So that after 
•all, to suppose that Mrs. Bargrave could hatch such an invention as this from 
Friday ooon till Saturday noon (supposing that she knew of Mrs. Veal's death the 
very first moment^, without jumbling circumstances, and without any interest 
too ; she must be more witty> fortunate, and wicked too, than any indifferent 
person, I dare say. will allow. 1 asked Mrs. Bargrave several timeaif she was sure 
she felt the gown? She answered modestly, " If my senses be to be relied on, 
I am sure of it." I asked her if she heard a sound when she clapped her hands 
upon her knee ? She said she did not remember she did, but said she appeared 
to be as much a substance as I did who talked with her. *'Aod I may," said she, 
" be as soon persuaded that your apparition is talking to me now, as that I did 
not really see her ; for I was under no manner of fear, and received her as a 
friend, and parted with her as such. I would not," says she, " give one farthing 
to make any one believe it ; I have no interest In it; nothing but trouble is entailed 
upon me for a long time, for aught I know ; and had it not come td light by acci- 
dent, it would never have been made public." But now she says she will make 
her own private use of it, and keep herself out of the way as much as she can; 
and so she has done since. She says she had a gentleman who came thirty miles 
-to her to hear the relation; and that she had told it to a room-foil of people at the 
time. Several particular gentlemen have had the story from Mrs. Fargrave's own 
mouth. 

This thing has very much affiected me, and I am as well satisfied as I am of the 
best-grounded matter of fact. And why we should dispute matter of fact, because 
we cannot solve things of which we can have no certain or demonstrative notions, 
seems strange to me; Mrs. Bargrave's authority and siocerity alone would have 
been undoubted in any other case. 



THE 



LIFE AND ADVENTURES 



OF 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 



\< 



I vfAS bom in the year 1683, in the city of York, of a good Eunily, 
iboagh not of that conntry, my father being a foreigner of Bremen^ \rfao 
settled first at Hull : he got a good estate by mercbandiae, and leaTing 
off his trade, lived afterwards at York; from wlienoe he had married my 
moHier, whose relations were named Robinson, a very good Himiiy in thai 
country, and from whom I was called Robinson Krentznaer ; but, by tlie 
usual corraption of words in England, we are now called, nay, we call 
ourselves, and write our name Crusoe; and so my companions always 
ealled me. 

I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lieutenant-colonel to an 
English regiment of foot in Flanders, formerly commanded by the famous 
Colonel Lockhart, and was killed at the battle near Dunkirk agaloat the 
Spaniards. What became of my second brother I never knew, any more 
than my fo^ther and mother did know what was become of me. 

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any trade, my head 
began to be filled very early with rambling thoughts : my fother, who was 
▼ery ancient, had giYcn me a competent share of learning, as for as house 
edoeation and a country free-school generally go, and designed me for the 
law ; but I would be satisfied with nothing but going to sea ; and my in- 
clination to tbiis led me so strongly against the will, nay, the commands 
of my fatlier, and against all the entreaties and persuasions of my mother 
and other friends, that there seemed to be something fatal in that propen- 
sion of nature, tending directly to the life of misery which was to befall me. 

My fetber, a wise and grave man, gave roe serious and excellent cohn^ 
sel against what he foresaw was my design. He called me one morning 
into hia diamber, where he was ooufiaed by the gout, and expostulated 

I 



8 UPE AND A]>VENTDB£^ 

very warmly with me upon this subject : he asked me what reasons more 
than a mere wandqriDg mdination I had for leaving my fatiier's hoose and 
my native coantry, where I might be well introdoced, and had a prospect 
of raising my fortune by application and industry, with a life of ease and 
{Measure. He told me it was for men of desperate fortunes on one hand, 
or of aspiring, superior fortunes on the other, who went abroad upon ad- 
ventures, to rise by enterprise, and make themselves famous in under- 
takmgs of a nature out of the common road ; that these things were all either 
too de abovie me^ or too iSv b«law npe ; that ngtfne was the middle state, 
or what might be called the upper station of low life, which he had found, 
by long experience, was the best state in the world, the most suited to 
human happiness, not exposed to the miseries and hardships, the labours 
and sufferings, of the mechanic part of mankind, and not embarrassed 
with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of the upper part of mankind. 
He told me, I tai^i jiidge of the happiness of this stale by one thing, viz. 
that this was die state of life which all other people envied ; that kings 
have frequently lamented the miserable consequences of being born to 
great things, and wished they had been placed in the middle of the two 
extremes, between the mean and the great; that the wise man gave his 
testimony to this, as the just standaid it true felicity, when he prayed to 
have neitiier poverty nor riches. 

He bid me observe it, and I should always find, that the calamities of 
life were shared among the upper and lower part of mankind ; but that 
the middle station had the fewest disasters, and was not exposed to so 
many vicissitudes as the higher or lovfer pari of mauled ; nay, they were 
not subjiQcted to so nnny distempers and uneasinessi^, either of body at 
mod, as those wene, who, by vicious livii^, luxury, and extravaganceS| 
on one hand, or by hard labour, want of necessaries, and mean and in- 
sufiicieat diet, on the other hand, bring distempers upon themselves by 
the natural coosequeoces of their way of living : that the middle station 
<if Ufe was c^euliied lor aU kind of virtues and all kind of enjoyments; 
ttot peace and j^enty wer« the handmaids of a middle fortune ; that tem- 
perance , moderation, quietness, health, society, all agreeable diversions^ 
and all desirable plea#nrei^ were the blessings attending the middle sta- 
limt of life; 4l9I 4hi9 wa^t mm went ailently and smoothly through thf 
vorld, and eoinfei;tablf 4»ttt of it, not embarrassed wiUi the labours of the 
haad^erof U)« head, nor wM to the life of slavery for daily ^r^, or ha- 
rassed with pei|dexed ch-cumstances, which rob the soul of peace, and 
the body of rest; not enraged with the passion of envy, or aeoret burning 
ImH of ambilioafor greai things; but, in easy circumstances, sliding gesh 
Uy through the worid, and arai^y tasting the sweets of iivuig, without 
the bitter; feeling that they are happy, and learning, by every day's ex- 
perience to know it more sensibly. 

Alter t^s, he {nessed me earnestly, and in the most aifectionale manner, 
not to i^lay the young man, not lo precipitate myself into muieries whidi 
nature, and the station ol life I was born in, seemed jto have provided 
againal^ th«tl was under no aocessity of seeking my bread ;]hat he would 
do weU lor me, and ^ndeftvaor to enter me fou-ly into the station of life 
whioh ihe iMd httn lost BseoniBieBdHig to me ; and lliat, if I was 1^ 
tmiF aoi happy in littwoiftdji it mnit fa» sBy mere liite <^ IWt that mnai 



A» tOBttlSdll OUSOK. 

llinderU; aocl Oiat he sboidd bave mUqii to mnntktf b»^ 
db^cl^a^ to 4i:^y ia wanottBg me agai^ 

be to my burt : in a word, tbat as be would do very kind tbiogt 9mwmM 
I WiOold Gitay and settle at bome as he dineted, ao he^reuld aoC haia ao 

miirh hmi in mj irfTfTrrtuniT, ir t? gi'TT tit uny rnnwragimMf te pi awyi 

Wd ^Q close aU, be told Bie I had wy eld^ teoUicr far an ciample» l» wham 
I^M 9«^d Ute ^ame eaniesiitiiersiiasioM W hetp hta fa^ 
}^F Oinotiy vail, bat coold Bol pterafl, his yoyngdaiirei pi^ 
tio CU9 into the aripy» whefebewaakilled;aiidtfMHi0hhe6ndhe 
9pt^eeai^ to prayforne, ye| he woold Tentare to say io me, thai if I 
tAe Uu^ looiish etep> God would mn bless me, af d I would have 
|i^«after i^ea upon hawg ueg l ected bis eowiael, wbca thsn 
be im^ U» assjist m my recovery. 

I obser^ved inlbi« last part <if bis disoooney wfaioh was Inriy 
tJuMigb i aujpi^Qse fof father did not faiow it to be soluflMetf^ Iaay» I 
ferred tUe teara jren down his bee very ptentiloily, and rifipnially 
lue spoke of my bi^er who was kiUed : and thai whan he spake #1 mf 
haying leisare to repent, and none to aasialne, he waaaonwped, Ihptha 
hM^e/^ff the disQwrse, and toldme, bisheait wasso M 
iQore to nte. 

{ w^ sincerely aOocled .vHh ihisdiscomae, as indeed wfa» coald ha 
otherwise? aodjjmolvednoitothuik of ^aing abroad any maae, hull* 
aatljle ^ tome aoeording to my iither^s desire. BiK alas! a few days 
yft^KeU.^l off; mdf in short, to prerentany olmy feihei'sftvther hnpor- 
Mai»ij^^> to fi 4bp? w^lBkB after I jresolittd to nu tpilte away Aran hhB, 
l^weiicff , 1 4id net act so hastily neilher, as my first heat of lesahnioa 
ljPBpi^9|ii(e4, j)qt I took my mother, it a time when I Ihoaght her a ifuit 
fle^^^r Ahan Qrdmary, and told her, ibM ay tfaoofte were ao en^ 
bent upon seeing the world, tbat I sboold never settle to any thii^ widi 
i;^ation enough to go tbroi^h with it, and my falher had heller give 
pe his consent than foree ine to go without it; Ahail jfm now e^ghhMB 
years old, vbich was too late to go apprentice In a imde, er dariL to an 
a^or^ey ; Ih^t | was am^, if I did, I should ae^eraennonl my lkae,aad 
I,i|^i(NBldcei!taiuly rina away frem my master befaremy lime was onl, and 
gp ;to sea; and if she would speak to my lather la lei me go jone voyage 
^hiioad, if i ciUBae home again, and did not like it, I woald ga no more, 
^d^ wotdd promise, hya double diligence, to recover Ihattjae I had ioal,- 

!)rius put my molhw ioto a great passion : she told me, she knew it wooM 
hp4o 00 pnrpa«e (osp(Qak tomy Cither upon any such aid^eot; Ibat heknev 
V)o w^eU what was my interest to give his consent to any sudi thing s<» 
nmch iqr my burtj and that she wondered how I conld think af any such 
thing alter siicb a difiQonrse asl had bad with my iaithar, and such kind 
a^d lender ftxpyyiffftiy as sbelcnew my fadier bad used tQ me; and thai, 
ip sbqrt, if I wonU rain myself, there was no help lor me; butimi^^i 
depend I should never have Hieir eonseni to it : Ibat for her|^pt, she 
^moid nol b^ye 80 mncb hand m my destruction ; and I should neverhave 
it 49 aay , that my mother was willing when my father wa$ not. 

Though my mollier reftised to move it to my father, yel, m$ I hwre 
biaid afiterwards, she reported all the discourselo bkn, andthalmyAi' 
ttwr^^alttjduKBmg a great concern at it, saidto her lirilfa a aigh^ ^^^ I)iwt 



4 LWK AND ADVl£MTtJA£S 

boy might be ba[^y if he^duld stay at home; bat if he goes abroad, iit 
will be the most miseraUe wretch that was ever born ; I can give no con- 
sent to It." 

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose, though, in Ihe 
nwantkne, Icon'iimed obstinately deaf to all proposals of settlin;^ to busd- 
ness, and frequently expostulating with my fother and mother about their 
being so positively determined against what they knew my inclinations 
prompted me to. But bein^ one day at Hall, where I went casually, add 
without any purpose of makuig an elopement at that time; but, I say, 
being there, and one of my companions then going by sea to London, in 
his fother's ship, and prompting me to go with them, with the common 
alltirement of seafaring men, viz. that it should oast me nothing for my 
passage, I consulted neither father or mother any more, nor so much as 
sent them word of it ; but leaving them to hear of it as they might, without 
asking God's blessing, or my father's, without any consideration of cir- 
cumstances or consequences, and in an ill hour, God knows, on the first 
of September, 4654, 1 went on board a ship bound for London. Never 
any yoong adventurer's misfortunes, I believe, began sooner, tn* continued 
longer than mine. The ship was no sooner gotten oat of the Eumber, 
but the wind began to blow, and the waves to rise in a most fHghtful 
manner; and, as I had never been at sea before, I was most inexpressibly 
sick in body, and terrified in mind. I began now seriously to reflect upon 
what I had done, and how justly I was oTcrtaken by the judgment of 
Heaven for wickedly leaving my father's house, and abandoning my duty. 
All Ilie good counsel of my parents, my father's tears and my mother's en- 
treaties, came now fresh into my mind; and my conscience, whieh was 
not yet come to the pitch of hardness to which it has been since, reproached 
me with the contempt of advice, and the breach of my duty to God and 
my fiatther. 

All this while the storm increased, and the sea, which I had never 
been upon before, went very high, though nothing like what I have seen 
many times since; no, nor like what I saw a few days after : but it was 
enough to affeet me then, who was but a young sailor, and had never 
known any thing of the matter. I expected every wave would have swal- 
lowed us up, and that every time the ship fell down, as I. thought, in the 
trough or hollow of the sea, we should never rise more; and in this agony 
of mind I made many vows and resolutions, that if it would please God 
here to spare my life this one voyage, if ever I got once my foot upon dry 
hind again, I would go directly home to my father, and never set it into 
a ship again while I lived; that I would take his advice, and never run 
myself into such miseries as these any more. Now I saw plainly the 
gCMdness of his observations about the middle station of life, how easy, 
how comfortably he had lived all his days, and never had been exposed to 
tempests at sea, or troubles on shore ; and I resolved that I would, like a 
true repenting prodigal, go home to my father. 

These wise and sober thoughts continued daring the storm, and indeed 
some time after ; hot the next day, as the wind was abated, and the sea 
calmer; I began .to be a little inured to it : however, I was very grave for 
all tltat. day, being also stiil a little seasick ; but towards night the weather 
cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a charming fine evening foUowed; 



OF ROBINSm CaUSO£. 3 

the sun went down perfectly clear, and rose so next morning ; and having 
little or no wind, and a smooth sea, the son shining upon it, the sigla 
was, as I thought, the mostdelightfol that I erer saw. 

I had slept well in the night, and was no more seasick, very dieerfbl, 
looking with wonder npon the sea that was so rough and terrible the day 
before, and coald be so calm and so pleasant in a little time after. And 
now, lest my good resolations should continue, my companion, who had 
indeed enticed me away, came to me ami said, ^* Well, Bob,'* dapping 
me on the shoulder, '^ how do you do aftor it ? I warrant you were fright* 
ened, waVt you, last night, when it blew but a cap-foil of windi^«— *^A 
Gap-fall, do you call it?" said I ; ^4t was a terrible storm/'^^'A storm, 
yoo fool you," replied he, '^do you call that a storm ? why It was nothing 
at all ; give us but a good ship and sea room, and we think nothing of sudi 
a squall of wind as that^ but you're but a fresh water sailor, Bob. Gome, 
let us make a bowl of punch, and we'll forget all that ; do you see what 
charming weather it is now ? " To make short this sad part of my alory, 
we went the old way of all sailors; the punch was made, and I waa 
made drunk with it ; and in that one night's wickedness I drowned all my 
repentance, all my reflections upon my past conduct, and all my 
resohuions for the future. In a word, as the sea was returned to its 
smoothness of surface and settled calmneps by the abatement of that storm, 
so the hurry of my thoughts being over, my fears and apprehensioas of 
being swallowed up by the sea being forgotten, and the current of my 
former desires returned, I enthely forgot the vows ami promises that I 
made in my distress. I found, indeed, some mtervals of rrflecUon ; and 
serious thoiughts did, as it were, endeavour to return again sometimes; 
but I shook them off, and roused myself from them as it were from a dla- 
temper, and applying myself to drinking and company, soon mastered the 
return of those fits; for so I called them ; and I had m five or six days got 
as complete a victory over conscience as any young fellow, that resolved 
not (0 be iroobled with it, could desire : but I was to liave another trial 
for it still ; and Providence, as in such cases generally it does, resolved to 
leave me entirely without excuse : for if I would not take this for a de- 
liverance, the next was to be such a one as the worst and most hardened 
wretch among us would confess both the danger and the mercy of. 

The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yarmouth Roads, the 
wind having been contrary, and the weather calm, we had made but little 
way since the storm. Here we were obliged to come to anchor, and here 
we Jay, the wind continuing contrary, viz. at south-west, for seven or 
eight days, during which time a great many ships from Newcastle came 
into the same roads, as the common harbour where the ships might wait 
for a wind for the River. 

We had not, however, rid here so long, but should have tided it up the 
river, but that the wind blew too fresh ; and, aftef we bad lain four or five 
days, blew very hard. However, tlie roads being reckoned as good as a 
harbour, the anchorage good, and our ground tackle very strong, our men 
were nnconceined, and not in the least apprehensive of danger, but spent 
the time in rest and mirth, aQer the manner of the sea ; but Uie eighth day 
in the morniog the wind increased, and we had all hands at work to 
strike our topmasts, and make every Uiipg snug and cjios^; that the shi{^ 



might IrMe ds eagf » {rassibie. B:^ noon the sea went veif high ift#g^^ 
and our ship rcMle forecastle in^ shipped several seas^ aad we thcwght 0^^ 
or twice our anchor had tome b<mie ; upon which oat master di^(^red out 
the sheet anchor ; so tirat we rode with two anchors ahead, and the cables 
teered ont ta the better end. 

By this time it blew a teitible dtonn indeed ; and now I began to seii 
terror and amazement in the ihces even of the Seamen themselves. Th6 
iMstery thongh vigilant in the business of preserving the ship, yet as M 
-wmt hi and out of his cabhi by me, I conld hear htm softly say to himsM 
several times, *^Lord, be merciful to ns! we shall be all lost^ we shall b^ 
ail nndone ! " and the like. Dortng these first hurrieU I was stupid, lyifig 
still in my eabin, which was in the steerage, and cannot describe my tem- 
per t I eonid ill reassnme the first penit^ce which I had so apparently 
tmmffled upon, and hardened myself against : I thought the bitterness of 
death had been pasied, and that this wooid be nothing like the first : but 
whei^ the master himself eanke by me, as t said just now, and said we 
Aonld he all lost, I was dreadfhlly frighted : I got op out of niy cabin, 
and looked ont ; but such a dMtiAl sight I never saw ; the sea went moun- 
tains high, and broke upbti us every three or four minutes : when I cotdd 
look about, I could see nothing but distress around us : two ships that rid 
near ns, we found, had cut their masts by the board, being deep laden ^ 
^nd our men cried oilt, that a ship which rid about a mHe ahead of us was 
frmtiAered. Two morci ships, being driven fh)m their anchors, were run 
dtft of Aie roads to dea, at all adventures, and that with not a mast stand- 
Ihg. The light ships fared the best, as not so mtidi labouring hi the sea ; 
bttt two at three of them drove, abd came close by us, rtintiing away with 
otily their sprttsail ont before the whid. 

Towards evening the imte and Boatswain bulged the ntaste^ of o&t shf^ 
lo let fhem ttii away the fore^a^t, which he was Very anwflling to do : 
tut the boatswain proteAii^g to hhn, that if he dkl not, the ship would 
A)u!ider, he consented; and when they had cut away the foremast, the 
mnhinMist stood so loose, and shook the ship so much, they Were obliged tA 
cot hei^ away also, and mefte a clear deck. 

Any one may judge what a condition I must be in at all this, who was 
but a young sailor, and who had been in such a fright before at but a little. 
Bllt if I can express at this distance the tiioughts that I had about me 
till fKal time, I Was in tenfold more horror of mind upon account of my 
i(^^ convictions, and the having returned lh)m theib to the resolutibn^ 
I hM wicklidly taken at first, than I was at death itself; and these, added 
to Ih^ t^etolt of the storm, j^nt ihe In such a condition, that t can by np 
#(^yds describe it. But th6 worst was not come yet; the storm continued 
with such fury, that the seamen themselves acknowledged they had never 
iiM#tt a worse. We h^d a good ship, but she was deep laden, 2^nd 
waliowed in the sea, that the seamen every now and then cried out, she 
ffiMd fhunder. It was my advantage in one respect, that I did not know 
what tfiey meant by foundm-, till I inquired. However, the storm was so 
violent, that I saw what is not ofteb seen, the master, the boatswain, aiid 
itoie dlhers more sensible than the rest, at their prayers, and expecUtig 
^ei^ moment when the ship wonld go to the bottom. In the middle of 
fk^ b^t, and Qlhdei* all Ihe rest of oiur distresi^es, due of the men that bad 



OF ROBmSOU t&USOE. 1 

htfefl fioWti oil ptfrpeg^ to 6M, cried oat, yft had ^prtn^ a IM[; tnoHMflr 
s^d, there was four foot water in the hold. Then dl handa were called 
to the {mtifp. At that very word my heart, as I thOnsht, died within me, 
and I fell backwards Upon the side of my bkl where I sat, into the cabm. 
Hpwev€t, the men roosed me, and told me, that I, that was able to do 
nothing before, was as well able to pomfi as another; at whidi I stirred 
up, and W€i!t to the pnliip and worked tery heartily. While this was 
doing, the master seeing some light cdHers, Irho, not able to ride oat the 
storm, were obliged to slip and run away lo aea, nUd wodd not come near 
us, ordered ns to fire a ^n as a signal of distress. I, Who knew nothing 
what that meant, was so surprised, that I thonght the ship had broke, or 
some dre»!Kiil thing had ha{^ned. In a word, I was so satprlsed, that 
I fell down in a swoon. As this was a time when CYcry body \aA his 
own life to think of, nobody minded me, or what was become of me ; hot 
another man stepped up to the pamp, and thmsthig me aside with his 
foot, let me lie, thiidcing I had been dead, and tt was a great while before 
I came to myself. 

We worked on; hot the water increasing in the hi4d, it was apparent 
that Uie ship would founder; and though the storm began to abate a fittle, 
yet as it was not possible she could swim till we might ran into a port, 
so the master continued firhig guns for help; and a light ship, who had 
rid it out just a-head of us, Tcntored a boat ost lo help us. It was with 
the utmost hazard the boat came near us, but it was impossible for us to 
get on board, or for the boat to He near the ship's side, till at last the 
men rowing very heartily, and Yentnring their fives lo save ours, oar 
jnen cast them a rope over the stem with a buoy to it, ahd then veered 
it out a great length, which they, after great labour and hazard, took hold 
of, and we hauled them close under our stern, and got all into their boat. 
It was to no purpose for them or us, after we were in the boat, to thint 
of reaching to their own ^p; so all agreed to let her drive, a^ only to 
pull her in towards shore as much as we could; and oar master proitdsetf 
them, that if the boat was staved upon shore he would make it good to 
therr master : so partly rowmg and partly driving, om: boat went away to 
the northward, ^ing towards the shore, almost as for as Whiterton Ness. 

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our ship 
before we saw her sink, and then I understood for the first time what was 
meant by a ship foundering in the sea. I must acknowledge I had hardly 
eyes to look up when the seamen told me she W8(s sinking; for from that 
moment they rather put me into the boat, than that I might be said to go 
in; my heart was, as it were, dead within me, partly wHh fright, partly 
witl) horror of mind, and the thoughts of what was yet before me. 

While we were m this condition, the men yet labouring at the oar to 
biing tlie boat near the shore, we could see (when, our boat mounting 
the waves, we were able to see the shore) a great many people running 
along the strand to assist us when we should come near; hut we made 
but slow way towards the shore; nor were we able to reach it, till, being 
past the light-house at Winterton, the shore foils off to the westward^ 
towards Cromer, and so the land broke off a little the violence of the 
wind. Here we got m, and, though not without much difOculty, got all 
safe on shore, and walked afterwainds oh foot to Tarmoulh, where, as on- 



8 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

fortunate men, we were used with great humanity, as well by the ma- 
gistrates of the town, whoassi^^d as good quarters, cis by particular 
merchants and owners of ships, and had money ^iven us sufficient to 
earry us either to London or hack to Hull, as we thousrht fit. 

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and have gone 
home, I had been happy, and my father, an emblem of our blessed Saviour's 
parable, had even kill^ the fatted calf for me; for bearing the ship I 
went away in was cast away in Yarmouth Roads, it was a great while 
before he had any assurance that I was not drowned. 

But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy that nothing could 
resist ; and though I had several times loud calls from my reason, and my 
more composed judgment, to go home, yet I had no power to do it. I 
know not what to call this, nor will I urge that it is a secret overruling 
decree tliat hurries us on to be the instruments of our own destruction, 
even though it be before us, and that we rush upon it with our eyes open. 
Certainly, nothing but some such decreed unavoidable misery attending, 
and which it was impossible for me to escape, could have pushed me 
forward against- the calm reasonings and persuasions of my most retired 
thoughts, and against two such visible instructions as I had met with in 
my first attempt. 

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and who was the 
master's son, was now less forward than I. The first time he spoke to 
me after we were at Yarmouth, which was not till two or three days, for 
we were separated in the town to several quarters ; I say, the first time 
he saw me, it appeared bis tone was altered, and looking very melan- 
choly, and shaking his head, asked me how I did, and telling his father 
who I was, and how I had come this voyage only for a trial, in order to 
go farther abroad ; his father turning to me with a very grave and con- 
cerned tone, ^' Young man," says he, ^' you ought never to go to sea any 
more; yon ought to take this for a plain and visible token that you are 
not to be a seafaring man. — '^ Why, Sir, " said I, ^' will you go to sea no 
more?" '^ That is another case, " said he; ^^ it is my calling, and there- 
fore my duty ; but as you made this voyage for a trial, you see what a 
taste Heaven has given you of what you are to expect if you persist. 
Perhaps this has all befallen us on your account, like Jonah in the ship of 
Tarshish. Pray, " continues he, '^ what are you ; and on what account 
did you go to sea?" Upon that I told him some of my story ; at the end 
of which he burst out in a strange kind of passion ; ^^ What had I done," 
says he, ^' that such an unhappy wretch should come into my ship ? I 
would not set my foot in the same ship with thee again for a thousand 
pounds." This indeed was, as I said, an excursion of his spirits, which 
were yet agitated by the sense of his loss, and was farther than he could 
have authority to go. However, he afterwards talked very gravely to me, 
exhorting me to go back to my father, and not tempt Providence to my 
ruin; told me I might see a visible hand of Heaven against me. *'And, 
young man," said he, *' depend upon it, if yon do not go bank, wherever 
you (;o, you will meet with nothing but disasters and disappointments, till 
yonr father's words are fulfilled upon you." 

We parted soon after; for I made him little answer, and I saw him no 
foore; which way he went; I know i|ot» As for me^ having some 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 9 

money in my pocket, I traYelled to London by land; and there, as well 
as on the road, had many stru^les with myself, what course of life I 
should take, and whetlier I should go home, or go to sea. 

As to going home, shame opiMised the best notions that offered to my 
thoughts ; and it immediately occurred to me how I should be laughed at 
among the neighbours, and should be ashamed to see, not my father and 
mother only, hut even every body else : from whence I have since often 
observed, how incongruous and irrational the common temper of mankind 
is, especially of youth, to that reason which ought to guide them in such 
cases, viz. that they are not ashamed to sin, and yet are ashamed to 
repent; nor ashamed of the action for which they ought justly to be 
esteemed fools, but are ashamed of the returning, which only can make 
them be esteemed wise men. 

In this state of life, however, I remained some time, uncertain what 
measures to take, and what course of life tq lead. An irresistible reluc- 
tance continued to going home ; and as I stayed a while, tlie remembrance 
of the distress I had been in wore off; and as that abated, the little notion 
I had in my desires to a return wore off with it, till at last I quite laid 
aside the thoughts of it, and looked out for a voyage. 

That evil influence which carried me first away from my father's house, 
that hurried me into the wild and indigested notion of raising my fortune; 
and that impressed those conceits so forcibly upon me, as to make me 
deaf to all good advice, and to the entreaties and even the commands of 
my father : I say, the same influence, whatever it was, presented the 
most unfortunate of all enterprises to my view ; and I went on board a 
vessel bound to the coast of Africa; or, as our sailors vulgarly call it, a 
voyage to Guinea. 

It was my great misfortune that in all these adventures I did not ship 
myself as a sailor; whereby, though I might indeed have worked a little 
harder than ordinary, yet at the same time I had learned the duty and 
office of a foremast-man; and in lime might have qualified myself for a 
mate or lieutenant, if not for a master. But as it was always my fete to 
choose for the woi*se, so I did here ; for having money in my pocket, and 
good clothes upon my back, I would always go on board in the habit of a 
gentleman; and so I neither had any business in the ship, or learned to do any. 

It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good company in London, which 
does not always happen to such loose and unguided young fellows as I 
then was ; the devil generally not omittuig to lay some snare for them 
very early : but it was not so with me. I first fell acquainted with the 
master of a ship who had been on the coast of Gninea : and who, having 
had very good success there, was resolved to go again ; and who, taking a 
fancy to my conversation, which was not at all disagreeable at that time, 
hearing me say I had a mind to see the world, told me if I would go the 
voyage with him I should be at no expense ; I should be his messmate 
and his companion ; and if I could carry any thing with me, I should 
liave all the advantage of it that the trade would admit ; and perhaps I 
might meet with some encouragement. 

I embraced the offer; and entering into a strict friendship with this 
captain, who was an honest and plain-dealing man, I went the voy<age 
with him, and ^rried a small adventure willi me, which, by the disin^' 



(0 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

teresl^d honesty of my friend the captain, t increased very considerably^ 
Ibr I carried about 402. in snch toys and trifles as the captain directed me 
to buy. This 40{. I had mustered together by the assistance of some of 
rtiy relations whom I corresponded with, and who, I believe, got my 
father, or at least my mother, to contribute so much as that to my first 
adventure. 

This was the only voyage in which I may say I was successful in all my 
adventures, and which I owe to the iotegrity and honesty of my friend 
the captain; under whom also I got a competent knowledge of the 
inathematics and the rules of navigation, learned how to keep an account 
of the ship's course, take an observation, and, in short, to understand 
some things that w^re needful to be understood by a sailor : for, as he 
took delight to instruct me, I took delight to learn; and, in a word, this 
voyage made me both a sailor and a merchant : for I brought home five 
pounds nine ounces of gold-dust for my adventure, which yielded me in 
London at my return almost 500L, and this filled me with those aspiring 
thoughts which have so completed my ruin. 

Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes too ; particularly, that I 
was continually sick, being thrown into a violent calenture by the exces- 
sive heat of the climate; our principal trading being upon the coast, 
from the latitude of 45 degrees north even to the line itself. 

I was now set up for a Guinea trader, and my friend, to my great mis- 
fortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to go the same voyage again, 
and I embarked in the same vessel with one who was his mate in his 
former voyage, and had now got the command of the ship. This was 
tiie unhappiest voyage that ever man made ; for though I did not carry 
quite 400L of my new-gained wealth, so thatIhad200L left, and which 
1 lodged with my friend's widow, who was very just to me, yet I fell into 
terrible misfortunes in this voyage ; and the first was this, viz. our ship 
making her course towards the Canary Islands, or rather between those 
islands and the African shore, was surprised in the gray of the morning 
by a Turkish rover of Sallee, who gave chase to us with all the sail she 
could make. We crowded also as much canvass as our yards would spread, 
or our masts carry to have got clear; but finding the pirate gained upon 
as and would certainly come up with us in a few hours, we prepared to 
fight; our ship having twelve guns, and the rover eighteen. About three 
in the afternoon he came up with us, and bringing to, by mistake, just 
athwart onr quarter, instead of athwart our stem, as he intended, we 
brought eight of our guns to bear on that side , and poured in a broadside 
upon him, which made him sheer off again, after returning our fire, and 
pouring in also his small shot from near ^00 men which he had on board. 
However, we had not a man touched, all our men keeping close. He 
prepared to attack as again, and we to defend ourselves ; but laying us 
on board the next time upon our other quarter, he entered sixty men upoa 
our decks, who immediately fell to cutting and hacking the sails and rig- 
ging. We plied them with small shot, half pikes, powder chests, and 
9ndi like, and cleared oar deck of them twice. However, to cut short 
this melancholy part of our story, our ship being disabled, and three of 
oar men killed and eight wounded, we were obliged to yield, ^nd were 
carried all prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging to the Moors,^ 



OF BO$mS0(i CRYJSOE. f I 

VWt ma^ I had fh^re \f as not so dreadftil as at first t apprehend^ ; 
IMW was I catti^ apthe oonntry to the emperor's court, as the rest of oar 
men wefe, hat wa^ kept hy the captain of the rover as hb proper prize, 
ind made his slave, heing yoang and fit hr his hasrness. At this siar- 
pHsing change 6f my cirenmstanoes, from a merchant to a miserahle 
Have, I was perfectly overwhelmed; and now I looked back apon my 
firther's prophetic discioarse to me, that I should he miserable, and have 
Bone to relieve me, which I thought was now so efltetaally brought to pass, 
that I could not be worse ; that now the hand of Heaven had overtaken me, 
and I was undone wfthont redemption : hut, alas! this was but a taste of 
Oie misery I was to go through, as will appear in the sequel of this 
fliory* 

As ihy new patron, or master, had taken me home to his hon.<;e, so t 
was in hopes that he wonid take me with him when he went to sea again, 
believing that it would some time or other be his fate to be taken by a 
Spanish or Portugal man of wa)^ ; and that then I should be set at liberty. 
But this hope of mine was soon taken away; for when he went to sea, he 
left me on shore to look after his little garden, and do the common drud- 
gery of slaves about his house; and when he came home again from the 
(iruise, he ordered me to lie in the cabin to look after the ship. 

Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what method t might 
take to effect it, but found no way that had the least probability in it : 
nothing presented to make the supposition of it rational; for I had nobody 
to communicate it to that Would embark with me, no fellow slave, no 
Englishman, Irishman, or Scotchman there but myself; so that for two 
years, though I often pleased myself with the imagination, yet 1 never 
had the least encouraging prospect of putting it in practice. 

After about two years an odd circumstance presented itself, which put 
tfie old thought of making some attempt for my liberty again in my head. 
My patron lying at home longer than usual without fitting out his ship, 
which, as t heard, was for want of money, he used constantly, once or 
twice a week, sometimes oftener, if the weather was fair, to take the 
ship's pinnace, and go out into the road a-fishing ; and as he always took 
ttie and a young Moresco with him to row the boat, we made him very 
Dni^rry, and I proved very dexterous in catching fish ; insomuch that 
sometinfies he would send me with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the 
youth of Moiresco, as they called him, to catch a dish offish for him. 

It happehed one tihie, that going a-fishing in a stark calm morning, a 
ft^ r68e so thick, that though we were not half a league from tlie shore 
we lost sight of it; and rowing we knew not whither or which way, we 
bhom*6d all day, and all the next night, and when the morning came we 
kftstid we bad pulled off to sea instead of pulling in for the shore; and 
that wd Were at least two leagues from the shore : however, we got well 
in again, though with a great deal of labour and some danger; for the 
Wind began to blow pretty fresh in the morning; but particularly we 
were all very hungry. 

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take more care of 
himself foir the future; and having lying by him the long-boat of our Eng- 
lish ship he had taken, he resolved he would not go a fishing any more 
^thout a coDQpass and some provision; so he ordered the carpenter of his 



12 LIFE AND ADV£NTl}R£S 

ship, who also was an English slave, to boild a little state-room^ or cabin, 
in the middle of the long-boat, like that of a barge, with a place to stand 
behind it to steer and haul home the mainsheet : and room before, for a 
hand or two to stand and work the sails ; she sailed with what we call a 
shoulder of mutton sail ; and the boom gibbed over the top of the cabin, 
which lay very snug and low, and had in it room for him to lie, wilh a 
slave or two, and a table to eat on, with some small lockers to put in some 
bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink; and particularly his bread, 
rice, and coffee. 

We went frequently out with this boat a-fishing, and as I was most 
dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went without me. It happened 
that he had appointed to go out in tiiis boat, either for pleasure or for 
fish, with two or three Moors of some distinction in that place, and for 
whom he had provided extraordinarily, and had therefore sent on board 
the boat over-night a larger store of provisions than ordinary ; and had 
ordered me to get ready three fuzees with powder and shot, which were on 
board his ship; for that they designed somesport of fowling as well as fishing. 

I got all things ready as he had directed, and wailed the next morning 
with the boat washed dean, her ensign and pendants out, and every thing 
to accommodate his guests; when by and by my patron came on board 
alone, and told me his guests had put off going, upon some business that 
fell out, and ordered me with the man and boy, as usual, to go out witli 
the boat and catch them some fish, for that his friends were to sup at his 
house; and commanded that as soon as I got some fish I should bring it 
home to bis house ; all which I prepared to do. 

This moment my former notions of deliverance darted into my thoughts, 
for now I found I was like to have a little ship at my command ; and my 
master being gone, I prepared to furnish myself, not for fishing business, 
but for a voyage; though I knew not, neither did I so much as consider, 
whither I should steer ; for any where, to get out of that place, was my way. 

My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak to this Moor, to 
get something for our subsistence on board; for I told him we must not 
presume to eat of our patron's bread; he said, that was true : so he 
brought a large basket of rusk or biscuf/. of tlieir kind, and three jars with 
fresh water, into the boat. I knew where my patron's case of bottles 
stood, which it was evident, by the make, were taken out of some English 
prize, and I conveyed them into the boat while the Moor was on shore, 
as if they had been there before for our master : I conveyed also a great 
lump of bees- wax into the boat, which weighed above half a hundred 
weight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, 
all which were of great use to us afterwards, especially the wax to make 
candles. Another trick I tried upon him, which be innocently came into 
also; his name was Ismael, whom they call Muley, or Moley; so I called 
him : ^^ Moley," said I, *' our patron's guns are on board the boat; can 
you not get a little powder and shot? it may be we may kill some alcamies 
(a fowl like our curlews) for ourselves, for I know he keeps the gunner's 
stores in the ship." " Yes," says he, *' I'll bring some ; " and accordingly 
he brought a great leather pouch which held about a pound and a half of 
powder, or rather more; and another with shot, tliat had five or six 
poqnds, wilh some bulleis, and put all into th^ boat : at (lie same time { 



dF ROBINSON CRUSOE. {^ 

had foand some powder of my master's in the great cabin, with which I 
filled one of the large bottles in the case, which was alonst empty, 
ponring what was in it iiHo another; and thns furnished with erery thing 
needful, we sailed out of the port to fish. The castle, which is at the 
entrance of the port, knew who we were, and took no notice of ns : and 
we were not above a mile ont of the port before we hanled in our sail, and 
set ns down to fish. The wind blew from the N. N. E. which was con- 
trary to my desire; for had it blown sontherly, I had been sore to have 
made the coast of Spain, and at least readied to the bay of Cadiz ; but my 
resolutions were, blow which way it would, I would be gone lh>m that 
horrid place where I was, and leave the rest to fate. 

After we had fished some time and catched nothing, for when I had 
fish on my hook I would not pull them up, that he mig^t not see them, 
I said to the Moor, '* This will not do ; oar master will not be thus served • 
-we must stand fiSirther off. " He, thinking no harm, agreed, and being 
In the head of the boat set the sails ; and as I had the helm I ran the boat 
out near a league fertber; and then brought her to as if I would fish; 
when giving the boy the helm, I stepped forward to where the Moor was, 
and making as if I stooped for something behind him, I took him by sur- 
prise with my arm under his waist, and tossed him clear overboard into 
the sea. He rose immediately, for he swam like a cork, and called to me, 
begged to be Uken in, told me he would go all over the world with me. 
He swam so strong after tlie boat, that he would have readied me very 
quickly, there being but little wind ; upon which f stepped into the cabin, 
and fetching one of the fowling-pieces, I presented it at him, and told 
him, I had done him no hurt, and if he would be quiet I would do him 
none : '^ But," said I, '^you swim well enough to reach to the shore, and 
the sea is calm; make the best of your way to shore, and I will do you no 
barm; but if you come near the boat Til shoot yon through the head, for 
I am resolved to have my liberty; '' so he turned himself about, and swam 
for the shore, and I make no doubt but he reached It with ease, for he 
was an excellent swimmer. 

I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me, and have 
drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to trust him. When he 
was gone I turned to the boy, whom they called Xury, and said to him, 
*^ Xury, if you will be faithful to me I'll make you a great man ; but If you 
will not stroke your face to be true to me," that is, swear by Mahomet and 
his father's beard, '^I must throw you into the sea too." The boy smiled 
in my foce, and spoke so innocentiy, that I could not mistrust him ; and 
swore to be faithfiil to me, and go all over the world with me. 

While I was in view of the Moor Uiat was swimming, I stood out di- 
rectly to sea with the boat, rather stretching to windward, that ihey might 
think me gone towards the Straits' mouth ( as indeed any one that had 
been in their wits must have been supposed to do); for who would have 
supposed we were sailed on to the southward, to the truly Barbarian 
coast, where whole nations of Negroes were sure to surround ns with their 
canoes, and destroy us; where we could never once get on shore but we 
should be devoured by savage beasts, or more merciless savages of hu- 
mankind ! 

But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my coarse, and 



4S Ut£ AM) AiiV^ll^rtJfl^S 

fleered directly south ai^d by east, bending my caurse a little low4 tb# 
east, that I might keep in with the shore ; and having a fair, Ireah gale oi 
wind, and a smooth quiet sea, f made snch sail that I believe by the neit 
day at three o'clock in the afternoon, when I first made the land, I could 
not be less than l$0 i^iiles south of S^Uee ; quite beyond the Emperor of 
Morocco's dominions^ or indeed of aJ^y oth^r king thereabo^ty |6r we saw 
np people. 

Yet such was tlie fright I had taken at liie Moors, and the dreadliil «fH 
prehensions I had of falling into Uieir hands, that I would n^t stqi, or gQ 
on shore, or come to an anchor; t^e wind continuing fair till I had jailed 
in that manner five days ; and t^en th^ wind shifting to the sonibward) I 
q^nduded also that if any of our vessels wer^e m <^^ase el me, they also 
lypuld now give over; so I ventured tp make to the cqast, 9fid come I9 
anchor in tlie mouth of a liUle riv^r, I knew not what, or wtiene; ijieiitfaef 
yrhai latitude, what country, what i^atioqf, or \yfaat n?er : I .neither saw> 
nor desired to see, any people; tlie principal dung I wanted was fresb W9^ 
|er. We came into ibis creek in the evening, resolving to swim on ahor* 
as soon as it was d^^k, and discover the country 5 but, as aoon as it waa 
quitie da;'|v, we beard such dreadful noises xjf tl^e barking, roaring, and 
bowling of "^M creatures, of we kc^w noi what kinds, tbailbe poor boy 
iira$ ready u^ die with fear, and b^ged /df me not to go ob shore tiU day. 
^' Well, Xi^y, " said J, ^^ then I won't; but it may be we may see men 
by day, w^p will be as bad to us as tiiose lions."— -^^ Then w« pNt ^em 
the shoot gw^," says !^ury, laughing, '^ make them run wey." iSac|| 
pi^gUsh Xyry spok/e by cpaversi^g among us slaves. However I was ^ad to 
^e the boy sp cheerjGiil, and I gav^e Mm a dram (out of our palcon's ^ease 
p| bottles) to cheer btm up. After all, Xnry's advice was good, and i 
took }i,; we ^foppted our little anchor, and lay stiU all ni^t; I say stiti, for 
iB^e slept ^none ; for i/a |tw4> or ibree hours we saw vast great erealiiires ( we 
^w w>t wli^ to call iheim ) of many sorts, come down to the seashore 
i^ run into thje W9ier> wallowing and washing themselves for the 
pleasure of cooling themselves; and they made such hideous bowlings and 
yelJi^gs, that I meyer indeed heard the like. 

Xjury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was I too; but we were 
hpifa ntor^ (rightenc^d when we beard one of these mighty creatures eome 
swi^uning towards our boat; we eould not see him, but we might hear 
him by Us blowing jto be a monstrous huge and furious beast; Xury said 
it was a lion, and it might be sk> lor aught I know ; but poor Xury cried 
V) me to w^h the anchor and row away : '' No,'^ says I, "Xury; we 
can slip our ca^le with tbe buoy to it, and go off to sea; Ibey cannot fol- 
low us far." I had no sooner said so, but I perceived the creature 
(whatever it was) within two oars' length, which something aurprised 
if^l however, I Jitninc^tely step^i^d to 4he cabia door, and taking up my 
gijua, fired at hj^; upon wbicdn he iounecMateiy tmvied about, and swam 
V^wards tlie shore again. 

But it is in;y^ssible to describe ilie horrible noises, and bideons ^es 
a^ howUngf^ 4h£^ were raised, as well upon the edge of the sl^ece aa 
higher within live country, upon ihe nme or cepoii of the gim, a thang I 
have some reason to believe those creatures had never heard before : tiu^ 

^nyiAoed me ih^ titm» ^as m going w Aore Jfor ffs inihe cagbtupan 



Ibat eo9fft, and iiow to ventiire on sbore in tbe day wai another qotsUoa 
too; for to have fallen into tbe hands of any of the savages bad beep as 
bad as to have fallen intp the hands of lions and tigers ;al least we were 
equally apprehensive of tbe danger of it. 

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore somewhere or other 
for water, for we bad not a pint left in tbe boat; when or where to get it, 
was tbe point : Xury said, if I woohl let bim go on shore with one of tbe 
jars, he would find if there was any water, and bring some to me. I 
asked bim why he would go ? why I shonld not go, and be stay ui Ibe 
))oat? The boy answered with so much affection, that made nie loYe 
him ever after. Says he, '* If wild mans come, they eat me, yon go wey.^ 
— p'' Well, Xury," said J, ''we will both go, and tf tbe wUd mans come, 
we will ^Ul them, they shall eat neitber of us." So I gavepLury a pieiBe 
of rusk bread to eat, and a dram out of o«r patron's cose of boules which 
I mentioned before ; and we baoVed the boat in as near tbe sbore as we 
iboi^ght was proper, and so waded to sbore; carrying hot our ams, 
twojars for water. 

Jdid not care to go ont pf the boat, fiearing tbe eoming of canoes 
savages down tbe river : bqt tbe boy seeing a low plaoe ahoot a mile op 
the country, rambled to it; and by and by I saw him come ranni^g 
towards me. I thought he was pursued by some savage, or frighted with 
some wild beast, and I ran forward towards bim to help him, but what 
I came nearer to him, I saw something banging over bis sboolders, which 
was a creature that be had shot, like a bare, but dififerent in ootour, and 
longer legs ; however, we were very glad of it, and it was very good meat; 
but the great joy that poor Xury came with, was to tell nu) he bad foaai 
good water, and seen no wild mans. 

But we found afterwards that we need not take ssdi paina for water, 
£>r a little higher up the creek what we were, we found the water fresh 
when tbe tide was out, which flows but a little way up; so we filled oar 
jars, and feasted (Viihe hare we had killed, and prepared to go on onr way, . 
having seen no footsteps of any bnman creature in that part of the 
country. 

As I bad been one voyage toUiis coast before, I knew very weU that the 
isbuids of tbe Canaries, and the Gape de Yerd islands also, lay not for off 
from tbe coast. Bat as I had no instruments to take an observation to 
know what latitude we were in, and not exactly knowing, or at least re- 
membering, what latitude they were in, I knew not where to look for 
them, or when to stand off to sea towards them ; otherwise I might now 
easily have found some of these islands. But my hope was, that if I 
atood along this coast till I came to that part where the English traded, 
I should find some of their Tessels upon their usual design of trade, that 
would relieve and take us in. 

By tbe best of my calculation, Uiat plaee where I now was, most be 
tiiat country, which, lying between the emperor of Morocco's dominions 
and the Negroes, lies waste, and uninhabited, except by wild beasts; tbe 
Negroes having abandoned it, and gone farther south for fear of theMoorsj 
and the Moors not thinking it worth inhabiting, by reason of its barren- 
. ness; and indeed both forsakingitbecauseof tbefH^Nllffionsnumbers of tigers, 
' liens, aiid leoparis; and oOier forious creatures whi<» harbour there; so tba^ 



46 Lt^ AND ADVENTURE 

the Moors nse it for their hantmg only, inhere they go like an army, tiv'o 
or three ihousand men at a time ; and indeed for near a hundred miles 
together apon tliis coast, we saw nothing bat a waste, uninhabited coun- 
try by day, and heard nolhing but bowlings and roaring of wild beasts by 
night. 
Once or twice in the day-time I thought I saw the Pico of Teneriffe, 
^ being the high top of the Mountain Teneriffe in the Canaries ; and liad a 
' great mind to Tenture out, in the hopes of reaching thither ; but having 
tried twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds, the sea also going 
too high for my little Tcssel; so I resolved to pursue my first design, and 
keep along the shore. 

Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water, after we had left this 
place ; and once in particular, being early in the morning, we came to an 
anchor under a little point of land which was pretty high ; and the tide 
beginning to flow, we lay still to go farther in. Xury, vrhoae, eyes were 
jnore alwut him than it seems mine were, calls softly to me, and tells me 
that we had best go farther off the shore ; '^ for," fyys he, *' look yonder 
lies a dreadful monster on the side of that hillock fast asleep." I looked 
where he pointed, and saw a dreadful monster indeed, for it was a terrible 
great lion that lay on the side of the shore, under the shade of a piece of 
the hill that hung as it were a little over him. '* Xury," says I, ^* yon 
diall go on shore and kill him." Xury looked frightened, and said, '^ Me 
kill ! he eat me at one mouth; " one mouthful he meant : however, I said 
BO more to the boy, but bad him lie still, and I took our biggest gun, which 
was almost musket-bore, and loaded it with a good charge of powder, and 
with two slugs, and laid it do wn ; then I loaded another gun with two bullets; 
and the third (for we had three pieces) I loaded with five smaller bullets. 
I took the best aim I could with the first piece to have shot him in the 
head, but he lay so with his leg raised a little above his nose, that the 
sings bit his leg about the knee, and broke the bone. He started up, 
. growling at first, but finding his leg broke, fell down again, and Ihen got 
up upon three legs, and gave the most hideous roar that ever I heard. I 
was a little surprised that I had not hit him on the head ; however I look 
up the second piece immediately, and, though he began to move off, fired 
again, and shot him in the head, and had the pleasure to see him drop, and 
make but little noise, but lie struggling for life. Then Xury took heart, 
and would have me let him go on shore; '^Well, go," said I ; so the boy 
juoiped into the water, ai>d taking a little gun in one hand, swam to shore 
with the other, and coming close to thecreature, put the muzzle of the piece to 
his ear, and shot him in the head again, which despatched him quite. 

This was game indeed to us, but this was no food ; and I was very sorry 
to lose three charges of powder and shot upon a creature that was good 
for notlung to us. However, Xury said he would have some of him; so 
he comes on board, and asked me to give him the halciiet. '^ For what, 
Xury ? " said I , "Me cut off his head," said he. However, Xury could 
not cut off his head, but he cut off a foot, and brought it with him, and it 
was a monstrous great one. 

I bethought myself however, that perhaps the skin of him might one 
way or other be of some value to us ; and I resolved to take off bis skin if I , 
could. So Xury and I went to work with him ; but Xury was much the 



6F ROBINSON CRUSOE. 17 

lielter workman at it, for I knew Tery ill how to do it. Indeed it took us 
botii up the whole day, bat at last we got off the hide of him, and spreading 
it on the top of oar cabin, the son edectaally dried it in two days' time, 
and it afterwards served me to lie upon. 

After this stop, we made on to the southward continually for ten or 
tweWe days. Hying very sparii^ on oar provisions, which began to abate 
▼ery nmch, and going no oftener in to the shore than we were obliged f o 
for fresh water : my design in this was to make the river Gambia or Sene- 
gal, that is to say, any where about the Cape deVerd, wberel was in hopes 
to meet with some European ship; and if I did not, I knew not what 
coarse I had to take, bat to seek for the islands, or perish there among the 
N^roes. I knew that all the ships from Europe, which sailed either to 
the coast of Guinea or to Brazil, or to the East Indies, made this Cape, or 
those islands ; and in a word, I put the whole of my fortune upon this 
single point, either that I must meet with some ship, or must perish. 

When I had pursued this resolution about ten days longer, as I have 
said, I b^n to see that the land was inhabited; and in two or three 
places, as we sailed by, we saw people stand upon the shore to look at us ; 
we could also perceive they were quite black, and stark naked. I waK 
once inclined to have gone on shore to them; but Xury was my better 
counsellor, and said to me, *' No go, no go.'* However, I hauled in 
nearer the shore that I might talk to them, and I fbund they ran along the 
shore by me a good way : I observed they had no weapons m their hands, 
except one, who had a long slender stick, which Xury said was a lance, 
and that they would throw them a great way with a good aim ; so I kept 
at a distance, but talked with them by signs as well as I could ; and parti- 
cularly made signs for something to eat ; they beckoned to me to stop my 
boat, and they would fetch me some meat. Upon this I lowered the top 
of my sail, and lay by, and two of them ran up into the country, and in leas 
than half an hour came back, and brought with them two pieces of dry 
flesh and some com, such as is the produce of their country ; but we 
neither knew what tlie one or the otlier was : however, we were willing 
to accept il, but how to come at it was our next dispute, for I was not for 
venturing on shore to them, and they were as much afraid of us : but they 
took a safe way for us all, for tliey brought it to the shore and laid it down, 
and went and stood a great way off till we fetched it on board, and then 
came close to us again. 

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to make tliem 
amends : but an opportunity offered that very instant to oblige them 
wonderfully; for while we were lying by the shore came two mighty 
creatures, otie pursuing the other, (as we took it) with great fury from the 
mountains towards the sea ; whetlier it was the male pursuing the female, 
or whether they were in sport or rage, we could not tell, any more than we 
could tell whether it was usual or strange, but I believe it was the latter; 
because, in the first place, those ravenous creatures seldom appear but in 
the night; and in the second place, we found the people terribly fright- 
ened, especially the women. The man that had the lance or dart did not 
fly from them, but the rest did ; however, as the two creatures ran directly 
into the water, they did not seem to offer to fall upon any of the Negroes, 
but plunged themselves inio the sea, and swam about, as if they had come 



18 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

for their diversion : at last, one of them began to come nearer our boat 
than I at first expected; bqt I lay ready for him, for I bad loaded my gun 
with all possible expedition, and bade Xury load both the others. As 
soon as he eame fairly within my reach, I fired, and sliot him directly in 
the head : immediately he sunk down into the water, but rose instantly, 
and plunged up and down, as if he was struggling for life, and so indeed 
he was : he immediately made to the shore ; but between the wound, 
whidi was his mortal hurt, and the strangling of the water, he died just 
before he reached the shore. 

It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor creatures at 
the noise and fire of my gun ; some of them were even ready to die fior 
fear, and fell[ down as dead with the very terror ; bat when they saw the 
creature dead, and sunk in the water, and that I made signs |to them, to 
come to the ^re, they took beat and came to the shore, and began to 
search for the creature. I found him by his blood staining the water; and 
by the help of a rope, which I idung rooud him, and gave the Negroes to 
haul, they dragged ^m on shore, and found that it was a most curious 
leopard, spotted, and fine io an admirable degree; and the Negroes held 
up theur hands with admiration, to think what it was I had killed him with. 

The otiier creature, firightened with the flash of fire and the noise of 
the gun, swam on shore, and ran np directly to the mountains from 
whence they came; nor could I, at that distance, know what it was. I 
found quickly the Negroes were for eating the flesh of this creature, so 
I was willing to have them take it as a favour from me ; which, when I 
made signs to them that they might take him, they were very thavkful for. 
Immediately they fell to work with him; and thoui^h they had no knife, 
yet, with a sharpened piece of wood, they took off his skin as readily, and 
much more readily, than we could have done with a knife. They offefed 
me some of the flesh, whidi I dedmed, making as if I would give it them, 
but made signs for the skin, which they gave me very freely, and brought 
me a great deal more «f their provisions, which, though I did not un- 
derstand, yet I accented. I then made signs to them for some water, and 
held out one of my jars to tliem, turning it bottom upwards, to show that 
it was empty, and that I wanted to have it filled. They called imme- 
diately to some of their friends, and there came two women, and brought 
a great vessel made of earth, and burned, as I suppose, in the sun; this 
they set down to me, as before, and I sent Xury on shore with my jars, 
and filled them all three. The women were as staik naked as the men. 

I was now furnished with roots and com, such as it was, and water; 
and leaving my friendly N^oes, I made forward for about eleven days 
more, without offering to go near the shore, till I saw the land run out a 
great length into the sea, at about tlie distance of four or Rye leagues be- 
fore me ; and the sea being very calm, I kept a larige olfing, to make this 
point. At length, doubling the point, at about two leagues from the land, 
I saw plainly land on the other side, to seaward : then I concluded, as it 
was most certain indeed, that this was the Gape de Yerd, and those the 
islands, called, from thence, Gape de Yerd islands. However, they were 
at a great distance, and I could not well tell what I had beat to do; for if 

I should be taken with a gale of wind, I might neither teach one nor the 

other. 



G» ROBINSON CaiUSOEi |§ 

tn this dilemma^ as I was very pensive, I stepped into the cabin, and 
sat me down, Xnry having the helm ; when, on a sudden, the boy cried 
ont, Master, master, a ship with a sail! and the foolish hoy was frightened 
ont of his wits, thinking itmast needs be some of his master's ships sent to 
{mrsne us, when I knew we were gotten far enough out of theur reach. I 
jumped out of the cabin, and immediately taw, not only the ship, bat 
what she was, viz. that it was a Portuguese ship, and, as t thought, was 
bound to the coast of Guinea, for Negroes. But, when I observed the 
course she steered, I was soon convinced they were bound some other 
tray, and did not design to come any nearer to the shore : upon which t 
stretched out to sea as much a6 I could^ resolving to speak with them, if 
possible. 

With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able to come 
in th^ir way, but that they would be gone by before I could make any 
signal to them : but after I had crowded to the utmost, and began to 
despair, they, it seems, saw me, by the help of their perspective glasses, 
and that it was some European boat, which, they supposed, must l>eIoQ| 
to some ship that was lost; so they shortened sail, to let me come up. | 
was encouraged with this, and as I had my patron's ensign on board, t 
made a waft of it to them, for a signal of distress, and fired a gun, both 
which they saw; for they told me they saw the smoke, though they did 
not hear the gun. Upon these signals, they very kindly brought to, and 
lay by for me; and in about three hours time I came up with Qiem. 

Hiey asked me what I was, in Portuguese, in Spanish, and in French, 
but I understood none of them ; but, at last, a Scotch sailor, who was on 
tK)ard, called to me, and I answered him, and told him I was an Eng- 
lishman, that I had made my escape out of slavery from the Moors, at Sal- 
lee : they then bade me come on board, and very kindly took me in, and 
all my goods. 

It was an inexpressible joy to me, which any one wHl believe, that I was 
thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a miserable, and almost hope- 
Jess condition as I was in; and I immediately offered all I had to the cap- 
tain of the ship, as a return for my deliverance; but he generotisly told 
me, he would take nothing from me, but that all I had should be deli- 
vered safe to me, when I came to the Brazils. '^For, " says he, '' I have 
saved your life on no other terms than I woul J be glad to be saved my- 
self; and it may, one time or other, be my lot to be taken up m the same 
condition. Besides," contmued he, ''when I carry you to the Brazils, so 
great a way from your own country, if I should take from you what you 
have, you will be starved there, and then I only take away that life I have 
given. No, no. Seignior Inglese" (Mr. Englishman), says he; '^I will carry 
you thither in charity, and these things will help to buy your subsistence 
there, and your passage home again." 

As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just in the per/<N-- 
mance, to a tittle; for he ordered the seamen, that none should offer to 
Couch any thing I had : then he took every thing into his own possession 
and gave me Imck an exact inventory of them, that I might have tliem, 
even so much as my three earthern jars. 

As to my boat, it was a very good one; and that he saw, and told me 
fie would buy it of me for the ship's use; and asked me what I would 



20 LIF£ AND ADVENTURES 

have for it? I to{d biniy he had been so generous to me in every thing, 
that I could not offer to make any price of (he boat, but left it entirely to 
him : upon which, he told me he would give me a note of hand to pay me 
eighty pieces of eight for it at Brazil ; and when it came there, if any one 
offered to give more, he would make it up. He offered me also sixty 
pieces of eight more for my boy Xury, which I was loath to take; not that 
I was not willing to let the captain have him, but I was very loath to sell 
the poor boy's liberty, who had assisted me so failhfulty in procuring my 
own. However, when I let him know my reason, he owned it to be just, 
and. offered me this medium, that he would give the boy an obligation to 
set him free in ten years if he turned Christian : upon this, and Xury 
saying he was willing to go to him, I let the captain have him. 

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived in the Bay de 
Todos los Santos, or All Saints' Bay, in about twenty-two days after. And 
now I was once more delivered from the most miserable of all conditions 
of life; and what to do next witli myself I was now to consider. 

The generous treatment the captain gave me I can never enough re- 
member : he would take nothing of me for my passage, gave me twenty 
ducats for the leopard's skin, and forty for the lion's skin which I had la 
my boat, and caused every thing I had in the ship to be punctually deli- 
vered to me ; and what I was willing to sell he bought of me; such as the 
case of bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of the lump of bees- wax,— for 
I had made candles of the rest : in a word, I made about two hundred 
and twenty pieces of eight of all my cargo ; and with this stock, I went on 
shore in the Brazils. 

I had not been long here before I was recommended to the house of a 
good honest man, like himself, who had an ingeino, as they call it (that 
is, a plantation and a sugar house). I lived witli him some time, and ac- 
quainted myself, by that means, with the manner of planting and making 
of sugar : and seeing how well the planters lived, and how they got rich 
suddenly, I resolved, if I could get a licence to settle there, I would turn 
planter among them : endeavouring in the mean time, to find out some 
way to get my money, which I had left in London, remitted to me. To 
this purpose, getting a kind of a letter of naturalization, I purchased as 
much land that was uncnred as my money would reach, and formed a plan 
for my plantation and settlement ; such a one as might be suitable to the 
stock which I proposed to myself to receive from England. 

I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but bom of English parents, 
whose name was Wells, and in much such circumstances as I was. I call 
him my neighbour, because his plantation lay next to mine, and we went 
on very sociably together. My stock was but low, as well as his; and we 
rather planted for food than any thing else, for about two years. How- 
ever, we began to increase, and our land began to come into order; so that 
the third year we planted some tobacco, and made each of us a large piece 
of ground ready for planting canes in the year to come : but we both 
wanted help; and now I found, more than before, I had done wrong in 
parting with my boy Xury. 

But, alas ! for me to do wrong, that never did rights was no great 
wonder. I had no remedy, but to go on : I had got into an employment 
quite remote to my genius, and directly contrary to the life I delighted in, 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 2i 

and for which I forsook my father's house, and broke through all his good 
advice : nay, I was commg into the very middle station, or upper degree 
of low life, which my father advised me to before; and which, if I resolv- 
ed to go on with, I might as well have slaid at home, and never have fa- 
tigued myself in the world, as I had done : and I used often to say to my* 
self, I could have done this as well in England, among my friends, as hat« 
gone five thousand miles off to do it among strangers and savages lii A 
wilderness, and at such a distance, as never to hear from any part of tlM 
world that had the least knowledge of me. 

In this manner I used to look upon my condition with the utmost re-* 
gret. I had nobody to converse with, but now and then this neighbour ; 
no work to be done, but by the labour of my hands : and I used to say, I 
lived jnst like a man cast away uiion some desolate island, that had nobody 
there but himself. But how just has it been ! and how should all men re- 
flect, that when they compare their present conditions with others Uiat 
are worse, Heaven may oblige them to make the exchange, and be con- 
vinced of their former felicity by their experience : I say, how just has it 
been, that the truly solitary life I reflected on, in an island of mere dfso« 
lalion, should be my lot, who had so often unjustly compared it with tlie 
life which I then led, in which, had I continued; I had in all probability, 
been exceeding prosperous and rich. 

I was, in some degree, settled in my measures for carrying on the plan- 
tation, before my kind friend, the captain of the ship that took me up at 
sea, went back; for the ship remained there, m providing his lading, and 
preparing for his voyage, near three months; when, telling him what little 
stock I had left behind me in London, he gave me this friendly and sin- 
cere advice : '^Seignior Inglese," says he, for so lie always called me, '* if 
you will give me letters, and a procuration here in form to me, with or- 
ders to the person who has your money in London, to send your effects 
to Lisbon, to such persons as I shall direct, and in such goods as are pro- 
per for this country, I will bring you the produce of them, God willing, 
at my return; but, since human affairs are all subject to changes and dis- 
asters, I would have you give orders for but one hundred pounds sterling, 
which, you say, is half your stock, and let the hazard be run for the first, 
so that if it come safe, you may order the rest the same way; and, if it 
miscarry, you may have the other half to have recourse to for your supply.'* 

This was so wholesome advice, and looked so ftiendly, that I could not 
but be convinced it was the best course I could take ; so I accordingly 
prepared letters to the gentlewoman with whom I left my money, and a 
procuration to the Portuguese captain, as he desired me. 

I wrote the English captain's widow a full account of all my adventures; 
my slavery, escape, and how I had met with the Portuguese captain at 
sea, the humanity of his behaviour, and what condition I was now in, with 
all other necessary directions for my supply; and when this honest cap- 
tain came to Lisbon, he found means, by some of the English merchants 
there, to send over, not the order only, but a full account of my story to a 
merchant at London, who represented it effectually to her : whereupon she 
not only delivered the money, but, out of her own pocket, sent the Portu- 
guese captain a very handsome present for his humanity and charity to me. 

The merchaiit in London, vesting thi^ hundred poiinds in English goods^ 



2a LIFE AKD iDVENTURSS 

such a$. the captaiahad wrote for, sent them directly to bim at Lisbon, 
and he brought them all safe to me at the Brazils : among which, without 
my direction (for I was too young in my business to thhnk of them), he 
had taken care to have all sorts of tools, iron work, and utensils neces- 
sary for my plantation, and which were of great use to me. 

When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune made, for I was sur- 
prised with the joy of it ; and my good steward, the captain, had laid out 
the five pounds, which my friend had sent him as a present for hunsell, 
to purchase and bring me over a servant, under bond for six years' service^, 
and would not accept of any consideration, except a little tobacco, which 
I would have him accept, being of my own produce. 

Neither was this all : but my goods being all English manufacture, 
such as cloths, stufCs, baize, and things particularly valuable and desirable 
in the country, I found means to sell them to a very great advantage ; so 
that I might say, I had more than four times the value of my first cargo, 
and was now infinitely beyond my poor neighbour, I mean in the advance- 
ment of my plantation : for the first thing I did, I bought me a Negro 
slave, and an European servant also ^ I meaa another, besides that which 
the captain brought me from Lisbon, 

But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very means of our ad- 
versity, so was it with me. I went on the next year with great success 
in my plantation : I raised fifty great rolls of td)acco on my own ground, 
more than I had disposed of for necessaries among my neighbours ; and 
these fifty rolls, being each of above a hundred weight, were well cured, 
and laid by against the return of the fleet from Lisbon : and now, increa- 
sing in business and in wealth, my head began to be full of projects and 
imdertakings beyond my reach ^ such as are, indeed, often the ruin of the 
best heads in business. Had I continued in the station I was now in, I 
had room for all the hdppy tilings to have yet befallen me, for which my 
father so earnestly recommended a quiet, retired life, and which he had 
so saa^ibly described the middle station of life to be full of: but other 
things attended me, and I was still to be the wilful agent of all my own 
miseries; and particularly, to increase my fault, and double the reflections 
upon myself, which in my future sorrows I should have leisure to make, 
aU these miscarriages were procured by my apparent obstinate adhering 
to my foolish inclination of wandering about, and pursuing that inclina- 
tion, in contradiction to the clearest views of doing myself good in a feir 
and plain pursuit of those prospects, and those measures of life, which na- 
ture and providence emcurred to present me with, and to make my duty. 

As I had once done thus in breaking away from my parents, so I could 
not be content now, but I must go and leave the happy view I had of 
beingf a rich and thriving man in my new plantation, only to pursue a rash 
and immoderate desire of rising faster than the nature of die thing ad- 
mitted ; and thus I cast myself down agam into the deepest gulf of human 
misery that ever man fell into, or perhaps could be consistent with life, and 
a state of health in the world. 

To come, then, by just degrees, to the particulars of this part of my 
story :— Yon may suppose, that having now lived almost four years in the 
Brazils, and beginning to thrive and prosper very well upon my planta- 
UQDy I had not only teamed thelaogaage^but hadcpiitiactQdaa acqoaiii* 



OF ROBINSONCAUSOE. » 

tance and friendship among my fellow planters, as well as among the mer- 
chants at St. 8aWador, which was oar port; and fbat, in my discoorses 
among (hem, 1 had frequently given them an accoiml of my two Toyagea 
to the coast of Gninea, the manner of trading with the Negroes there, 
and how easy it was to purchase on the coast Ibr trifles— sach as beads, 
toys, kniTcs, sdssars, hatchets, bits of glass, and tbe like^not only 
gold dnst, Gninea grams, elephants* teetfi, etc., bat N^roes, kf the 
serrice of the Brazils, in great numbers. 

They h'stened always very attentiydy to my disooarses on these heads, 
bat especially to that part which related to the baying Negroes; which 
was a trade, at that time, not only not for entered into, hot, as for as it 
was, had been carried on by the assientos, or permissioa of the kings of 
Spain and Portngal, and engrossed frtmi the pablic; so that few Negroea 
were boaght, and those excessive dear. 

It happened, being in company with some merchants and planters of my 
acquaintance, and talking of those things very earnestly, three of them 
came to me (he next morning, and told me they had been mnsing very 
much upon what I had discoursed with them of the last night, and they 
came to make a secret proposal to me : and, after enjoming me to secrecy, 
they told me that they had a mind to fit put a ship to go to Guinea ; that 
they had all plantations as well as I, and were straitened for nothing so 
much as servants ; that as it was a trade that could not be carried on, be* 
cause they could not publicly sell the Negroes when they came home, so 
they desired to make but one voyage, to bring the Negroes on shore pri- 
vately, and divide them among their own plantations : and, in a word, 
the question was, whether I would go their supercargo in the ship, lo 
manage the trading part upon the coast of Guinea ; and they offered mo 
that I should have an equal share of the Negroes, without providing any 
part of the stock. 

This was a &ir proposal, it must be confessed, had it been made to any 
one that had not a settlement and plantation of his own to look after, 
which was in a fair way of coming to be very considerable, and with a good 
stock upon it. But for me, that was thus entered and established, and had 
nothing to do but go on as I had b^;un, for three or four years more, and 
to have sent for the other hundred pounds from England ; and who, in 
that time, with that little addition, could scarce have faOed of being worlh 
three or four thousand pounds sterling, and that increasing too; for me to 
think of such a voyage was the most preposterous thing that a man, in 
sach circumstances, could he guilty of. 

But I, that was bom to be my own destroyer, conid no more resist the 
offer than I could restrain my first rambling designs, when my father'a 
good counsel was lost upon me. In a word, I told them I would go with 
all my heart, if they would undertake to look after my plantation in my 
absence, and would dispose of it to such as I should direct, if I miscarried. 
This they all engaged to do, and entered intb writings or covenants to do 
so : and I made a formal will, disposing of my plantation and effects, in 
case of my death ; making the captain of the ship that had saved my life, as 
before, my nniversal heir; but obliging him lo dispose of my effects as I 
had durected in my will ; one half of the produce being to hiinself, and tbe 
other to be shipped to England, 



24 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

In short, I took all possible caation to preserve my effects, and to keep 
lip my plantation : had I used half as much prudence to have looked into 
my own interest, and have made a judgment of what I ought to have 
done, and not to have done, I had certainly never gone awdy from so 
prosperous an undertaking, leaving all the probable views of a thriving 
circumstance, and gone a voyage to sea, attended with all its common ha- 
zards, to say nothing of the reasons I had to expect particular misfortunes 
to myself. 

But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates of my fancy rather 
than my reason : and accordingly, the ship being fitted out, and the carji^o 
furnished, and all things done as by agreement, by my partners in the 
voyage, I went on board in an evil hour again, the 4st of September, 4659, 
being the same day eight years tbat^ I went from my father and mother at 
Hull, in order to act Uie rebel to their authority, and the fool to my own 
interest. 

Our ship was about one hundred and twenty tons burden, carried six 
guns, and fourteen men, besides the master, his boy, and myself; we had 
on board no large cargo of goods, except of such toys as were fit for our 
ti-ade with the Negroes, sucli as beads, bits of glass, Shells, and odd trifles, 
especially little looking-glasses,* knives, scissars, hatchets, and the like. 

Tlie same day I went on board we set sail, standing away to the north- 
ward upon our own coast, with design to stretch over ifor the African coast. 
"When they came to about ten or twelve degrees of northern latitude, 
which, it seems, was the manner of their course in those days, we had 
very good weather, only excessive hot all the way upon our own coast, 
till we came to the height of Gape St. Augustino; from whence, keeping 
farther off at sea, we lost sight of land, and steered as if we were bound 
for the isle of Fernando de Noronha, holding our course N. £. by N. and 
leaving those isles on the east. In this course we passed tlie Line in about 
twelve days' time, and were, by our last observation, in 7 degrees 22 
minutes northern latitude, when a violent tornado, or hurricane, took us 
quite out of our knowledge : it began from the south-east, came about to 
the north-west, and then settled in the north-east ; from whence it blew 
in such a terrible manner, that for twelve days together we could do nothing 
but drive, and, scudding away before it, let it carry us whither ever fate 
and the fury of the winds directed ; and, during these twelve days, I need 
not say that I expected every day to be swallowed upj nor, indeed, did 
any in tlie ship expect to save their lives. 

In this distress, we had, besides the terror of the storm, one of our men 
died of the calenture, and one man and a boy washed overboard. About 
the twelfth day, the weather abating a little, the master made an obser- 
vation as well as he could, and found that he was in about 14 degrees 
north latitude, but that he was 22 degrees of longitude difference, west 
from Gape St. Augustino; so that he found he was got upon the coast of 
Guiana, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the river Amazons, toward 
that of the river Oroonoque, commonly called the Great River ; and 
began to consult with me what course he should take, for the ship was 
leaky and very much disabled, and he was for going directly back to the 
coast of Brazil. 

I was positively against that; and looking over the diarts of the seacoast 



OF AOBmSON GRUS(^. 85 

of America with him, we concluded there was no inhabited conntry for 
us to have recourse to, till we came within the circle of the Garibbee 
islands, and therefore resolved to stand away for Barbadoes; which by 
keeping off to sea, to avoid the indraft of the bay or gulf of Mexico, we 
might easily perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen day's sail; whereas 
we could not possibly make our voyage to the coast of Africa without 
some assistance, both to our ship and ourselves. 

With tliis desiga, we changed our course, and steered away N. W. by 
W. in order to reach some of our English islands, where I hoped for 
relief : but our voyage was otherwise determined; for, being in the 
latitude of 42 degrees 48 minutes, a second storm came upon us, which 
carried us away with the same impetuosity westward, and drove us so out 
of the very way of all human commerce, that had all our lives been saved, 
as to the sea, we were rather in danger of being dcToored by savages, 
than ever returning to our own country. 

In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of our men early 
in the morning cried out. Land ! and we had no sooner run out of tlie 
cabin to look out, in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world we were, 
but the ship struck upon a sand, and in a moment, her motion being so 
stopped, the sea broke over her in such a manner, that we expected we 
should all have perished immediately ; and we were immediately driven 
into our close quarters, to shelter us from the very foam and spray of the 
sea. 

It is not easy for any one, who has not been in the like condition, to 
describe or conceive the consternation of men in such circumstances ; we 
knew nothing where we were, or upon what land it was we were 
driven, whether an island or the main, whether inhabited or not inha- 
bited ; and as the rage of the wind was still great, though rather less than 
at first, we could not so much as hope to have the ship hold many minutes, 
without breaking in pieces, unless the wind, by a kind of miracle, should 
inunediately turn about. In a word, we sat looking upon one another, and 
expecting death every moment, and every man acting accordingly, as 
preparing for another world ; for there was Uttle or nothing more for us 
to do in this : that which was our present comfort, and all the comfort 
we had, was, that contrary to our expectation, the ship did not break yet, 
and that the master said the wind began to abate. 

Now, though we thought that the wind did a little abate, yet the ship 
having thus struck upon the sand, and sticking too fast for us to expect her 
getting off, we were in a dreadful condition indeed, and had nothing 
to do but to think of saving our lives as well as we could. We had a 
boat at our stem just before the storm, but she was first staved by dashing 
against the ship's rudder, and, in the next place, she broke away, and 
either sunk or was driven off to sea ; so there was no hope from her : we 
had another boat on board, but how to get her off into the sea was a 
doubtful thing : however, there was no room to debate, for we fancied 
the ship would break in pieces every minute, and some told us she was 
actually broken already. 

In this distress, the mate of our vessel laid hold of the boat, and with 
the help of the rest of the men, they got her fluui? over the ship's side; and 
getting all into her, let her go, and committed ourselves, being eleven 



2$ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

in number, to God's mercy, and the wild sea : for though the storm was. 
abated considerably, yet the sea went dreadfal hig;h upon the shore, and 
might be well called den wild zee, as the Dutch call the sea in a storm. 

And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we all saw plainly, that 
the sea went so high that the boat could not live, and that we should be 
inevitably drowned. As to making sail, we had none; nor, if we had^ 
could we have done Bny thing with it ; so we worked at the oar towards 
the land, though with heavy hearts, like men going to execution ; for we 
all knew that when the boat came nearer to the shore, she would be 
dashed in a thousand pieces by the breach of the sea. However, we 
committed our souls to God in the most earnest manner; and the wind 
driving us towards the shore, we hastened our destruction with our qwb. 
hands, pulling as well as we could towards land. 

What the shore was — whether rock or sand, whether steep or shoal—* 
we knew not; the only hope that could rationally give us the least sliadow 
of expectation was, if we might happen into some bay or gulf, or the mouth 
of some river, where by great chance we might have ran our boat in, or 
got nnder the lee of the land, and perhaps made smooth water. But 
there was nothing of this appeared ; and as we made nearer and nearer 
the shore, the land looked more frightful than the sea. 

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league and a half, as we 
reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain like, came rolling astern of us, and 
plainly bade us expect the coup de grace. In a word, it took us with 
such a fury, that it overset the boat at once; and separating us, as well 
from the boat as from one another, gave us not time hardly to say, ^^ O 
God ! " for we were all swallowed up in a moment. 

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt when I 
sunk into the water; for though I swam very well, yet I could not deliver 
myself from the waves so as to draw my breath, till that wave having 

driven me, or rather carried me, a vast way on towards the ^ore, and 
having spent itself, went back, and left me upon the land almost dry, but 
half dead witli the water I took in. I had so much presence of mind, as 
well as breath left, that seeing myself nearer the main land than I expect- 
ed, I got upon my feet, and endeavoured to make on towards the land as 
fast as I could, before another wave should return and take me op again $ 
but I soon found it was impossible to avoid it; for I saw the sea come 
after me as high as fa great hill, and as furious as an enemy, which I bad 
no means or strength to contend with; my business was to hold my 
breath, and raise myself upon the water, if I could ; and so, by swinv- 
ming, to preserve my breathing, and pilot myself towards the shore, if 
possible ; my greatest concern now being, that the wave, as it would 
carry me a great way towards the shore when it came on, might not carry 
me back again with it when it gave back towards the sea. 

The wave that came upon me again buried me at once twenty or 
thirty feet deep in its own body ; and I could feel myself carried with af 
mighty force and swiftness towards the shore a very great way ; but I held 
my breath, and assisted myself to swim still forward with all my might. 
I was ready to bwst with holding my breath, when, as I felt myself rising 
up, so, to my immediate relief, I found my head and hands shoot oat 
above the surface of the water ; and though it was nd two seconds of tins , 



CO* ROBINSON CaUSOE. fS 

tbat I eoald keep myself so, yel it relieved me greatly, gate me breathy 
and new courage. I was covered again with water a good while, but not 
so long but I held it out ; and finding the water had spent itself, and began 
to return, I struck forward against the return of the waves, and felt ground 
again with my feet. I stood still a few moments, to recover breath, and 
then took to my heels, and ran with what strength I had farther towards 
the shore. Bat neither would this deliver me from the fury of the sea, 
which came pouring in after me again ; and twice more I was lifted op 
by the waves and carried forwards as before, the shore being very flat. 

The last time of these two had well nigh been fatal to me; for the sea 
having hurried me along, as before, landed me, or rather dashed me 
against a piece of a rock, and that with such force, that it left me 
senseless, and indeed helpless, as to my own deliverance ; for the blow 
taking my side and breast, beat the breath, as it were, quite out of my 
body ; and had it returned again unmedialely, I must have been strangled 
in the water : bnt I recovered a little before the return of the waves, 
and seeing I should again be covered with water, I resolved to hold East 
by a piece of the rock, and so to hold my breath, if possible, till the wave 
went back. Now as the waves were not so high as the first, being nearer 
land, I held my hold till the wave abated, and then fetched another run, 
which brought me so near the shore, that the next wave, though it went 
over me, yet did not so swallow me up as to carry me away ; and the 
next run I took, I got to the main land ; whefe, to my great comfort, I 
clambered up the cliffs of the shore, and sat me down upon the grass, 
free from danger, and quite out of the reach of the water. 

I was now landed, and safe on shore; and began to look up and tliank 
God that my life was saved, in a case wherein there were, some minutes 
before, scarce any room to hope* I believe it is impossible to express, te 
the life, what the ecstasies and transports of the soul are, when it is 
saved, as I may say, out of the grave : and I did not wonder now at the 
custom, viz. that when a malefactor, who has the halter about his neck, is 
tied up, and just going to be turned off, and has a reprieve brought to him; 
I say, I do not wonder that they bring a surgeon with it, to let him blood 
that very moment they tell him of it, that the surprise may not drive the 
anunal spirits from the heart, and loverwhem him. 

For sudden Joys, like grieft, eonfoaod at lint. 

I walked about on the shorf , lifting up my hands, and my whole being, 
as I may say, wrapped up in the contemplation of my deliverance ; making 
a thousand gestures and motions which I cannot describe; refleeting 
upon my comrades that were drowned, and that there should not be 
one soul saved but myself; for, as for them, I never saw them afterwards, 
or any sign of them, except three of their hats, one cap, and two shoes 
that were not fellows. 

X cast my eyes to the stranded vessel — when the breach and froth of 
the sea being so big I could hardly see it, it lay so fiur off— *and considered, 
Lord! how was it possible I could get on shore? 

After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part of my condition, 
I began to look round me, to see what kind of a place I was in, and what 
was next t» be dene; and I soon found myeoniforts abate, and that, ui 



« LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

a word, I bad a dreadful deliverance : for I was wet, had no clothes to 
^ift me, nor any thing either to eat or drink to comfort me; neither did I 
see any prospect before me, but that of perishing with hunger, or being 
devoured by wild beasts : and that which was particularly afflicting to me 
was, that I bad no weapon, either to hunt and kill any creature for my 
sustenance, or to defend myself against any other creature that might 
desire to kill me for theirs. In a word, I had nothing about me but a 
knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a little tobacco in a box. This was all my pro- 
vision, and this threw me into such terrible agonies of mind, that for a 
while I ran about like a madman. Night coming upon me, I began, 
with a heavy heart, to consider what would be my lot if there were any 
ravenous beasts in that country, seeing at night they always come abroad 
for their prey. 

AH the remedy that offered to my thoughts, at that time, was, to get up 
into a thick bushy tree, like a fir, but thorny—- whidi grew near me, and 
where I resolved to sit all night— and consider the next day what death I 
should die, for as yet I saw no prospect of life. I walked about a furlong 
from the shore, to see if I could find any fresh water to drink, which I 
did, to my great joy ; and having drank, and put a little tobacco into my 
mouth to prevent hunger, I went to the tree, and getting up into it, 
endeavoured to place myself so, as that if I should fall asleep, I might not 
fall ; and having cut me a short stick, like a truncheon, for my defence, 
I took up my lodging : and having been excessively fatigued, I fell fast 
asleep, and slept as comfortably, as, I believe, few could have done in my 
condition; and found myself the most refreshed with it that I think I ever 
was on such an occasion. 

When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and the storm 
abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as before; but that which 
surprised me most was, that the ^hip was lifted off in the night from the 
sand where she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and was driven op almost 
as far as the rock which I at first mentioned, where I had been so bruised 
by the waves dashing me against it. This being within about a mile 
from the shore where I was, and the ship seeming to stand upright 
still, I wished myself on board, that at least I might save some necessary 
things for my use. 

When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I looked about 
me again, and the first thing I found was the boat, which lay, as the wind 
and the sea had tossed her up, upon the land, about two miles on my 
right hand. I walked as far as I could upon the shore to have got to her ; 
bnt found a neck or inlet of water between me and the boat, which was 
aboat half a mile broad ; so I came back for the present, being more in- 
tent upon getting at the ship, where I hoped to find something for my 
present subsistence. 

A little after noon, I found the sea very calm, and the tide ebbed so 
far out, that I could come within a quarter of a mile of the ship : and here 
I found a fresh renewing of my grief; for I saw evidently, that if we had 
kept on board, we had been all safe; that is to say, we had all got safe on 
shore, and I had not been so miserable as to be left entirely destitute of 
all comfort and company, as I now was. This forced tears from my 
eyes again; bqtas there was little relief in that, I resolvedi if possible^ t& 



OF ROBINSON CliUSO^.. iH 

get to tlie ship ; so T palled off my clothes, for the weather was hot to ex- 
tremity, and took ihe water ; bat when I came to the sliip, my diflicuity 
was siill greater to know how to get on board ; for as slie lay agronud, 
and higli out of the water, there was notliing within my reach to lay hold 
of. I swam round her twice, and the second time I spied a small piece 
of a rope, which I wondered I did not see at first, hang down by 
the fore chains so low, as that with great difficalty I got hold of it, 
and by the help of that rope got mto the forecastle of the ship. Here 
I found that the ship was bulged, and had a great deal of water in her 
hold; but that she lay so on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather 
earth, that her stem lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head low, 
almost to the water. By this means all her quarter was free, and all ttiat 
was ui that part was dry ; for yon may be sure my first work was to 
search and to see what was spoUedand what was free : and first, I found 
that all the ship's provisions were dry and nntoucbed by the water; and, 
being very well disposed to eat, I went to the breadroom and filled my 
pockets with biscuit, and eat it as I went about other things, for I had no 
time to lose. I also found some mm in the great cabin, of which I took 
a large dram, and which I had indeed need aiough of, to spirit me for 
what was before me. Now I wanted nothing hot a boat, to foraish 
myself with many things which I foresaw would be very necessary to me. 

It was in yarn to sit still and wish for what was not to be had, and this 
extremity roused my application : we had several spare yards, and two or 
three large spars of wood, and a ^re topmast or two in the ship; I re- 
solved to fall to work with these, and flung as many overboard as I could 
manage for their weight, tying every one with a rope that they might not 
drive away. When this was done, I went down Ihe ship's side, and puHing 
them to me, I tied four of them fast together at both ends, as well as I could, 
in the form of a raft, and laying two or three short pieces of plank upon 
them crossways, I found I could walk upon it very well, but that it was 
not able to bear any great weight, the pieces being too light : so I went to 
work, and with the carpenter's saw I cut a spare topmast into three 
lengths, and added them to my raft, with a great deal of labour and pains. 
But the hope of furnisliing myself with necessaries encouraged me to go 
beyond what I should have been able to have done upon another occasion. 

My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable weight. My next 
care was what to load it with, and how to preserve what I laid upon it 
from the surf of the sea; but I was not long considering this.. I firstlaid all 
the planks or boards upon it that I could get, and having considered well 
what I most wanted, I got three of the seamen's chests, which I had bro- 
ken open and emptied, and lowered them down upon my raft; these I 
filled with provisions, viz. bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of 
dried goats' flesh (which we lived mnch upon), and a little remainder of 
European com, which had been laid by for some fowls which we had 
brought to sea with us, but the fowls were killed. There had been some 
barley and wheat together, but, to my great disappointment, I found af- 
terwards that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found 
several cases of bottles belonging to our skipper, in which were some cor- 
dial waters; and, m all, about five or six gallons of rack. These I stowed 
by themselveSi there being no need to put them into the chests, nor any 



so LWt AND ADVEtmjftES 

room for them. Wliile I was doing this, I fomid the tide began to flow^ 
though very calm ; and I had the mortification to see my coat, shirt, and 
waistcoat, which I had left on shore, upon the sand, swim away; as for my 
breeches, which were only linen, and open kneed, I swam on board in 
them, and my stockings. However, this put me upon rummaging for 
clothes, of which I found enough, but took no more than I wanted for pre- 
sent use, for I had other things which my eye was more upon ; as, first^ 
tools to work with on shore : and it was after long searching that I found 
the carpenter's chest, which was indeed a very useful prize to me, and 
much more valuable than a ship lading of gold would have been at that 
time. I got it down to my raft, even whole as it was, without losing time 
to look into it, for I knew in general what it contained. 

My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There were two 
very good fowlingpieces in the great cabin, and two pistols; these I secur- 
ed first, with some powder horns and a small bag of shot, and two old rusty 
swords. I knew there were three barrels of powder in the ship, but knew 
not where our gunner had stowed them; but with much search I found 
them, two of them dry and good, the third had taken water. Those two 
I got to my raft, with the arms. And now I thought myself pretty well 
freighted, and began to think how I should get to shore with them, having 
neither sail, oar, nor rudder ; and the least capful! of wind would have 
overset all my navigation. 

I had tliree encouragements : 4st, A smooth, calm sea : 2dly, The tide 
rising, and setting in to the shore : 5dly, What little wind there was blew 
me towards the land. And thus, having found two or three broken oars 
belonging to the boat, and besides the tools which were in the chest, I found 
two saws, an axe, and a hammer ; and with this cargo I put to sea. For a 
mile, or thereabouts, my raft went very well, only Uiat I (bund it drive a 
little distant from the place were I had landed before, by which I perceiv- 
ed that there was some indraft of the water, and consequently I hoped to 
find some creek or river there, which I might make use of as a port to get 
to land with my cargo. 

As I imagined, so it was : there appeared before me a little opening of 
the land, and I found a strong current of the tide set into it; so I guided 
my raft, as well as I could, to get into the middle of the stream. But here 
I bad like to have suffered a second shipwreck, which, if I had^ I think ve- 
rily would have broken my heart ; for knowing nothing of the coast, my 
raft ran aground at one end of it upon a shoal, and not being aground at the 
other end, it wanted but a little that all my cargo had slipped off towards 
that end that was afloat, and so fallen into the water. I did my utmost , 
by setting my back against the chests, to keep them in their places, but 
cottlduot tbrusi off (he raft with aUmy strength; neither durst I stir from the 
posture I was in; but holding up the cliests with all my might, I stood in that 
manner near half an hour, in which time the rising of the water brought me 
a little more upon a level ; and a little after, the water still rising, my raft 
floated again, and I thrust her off with the oar I had into the channel, and 
then driving up higher, I at length found myself in the mouth of a little 
tiver, with land on both sides, and a strong current or tide running up, 
I looked oo both sides lor a proper place to get to shore, for I was not willing 
to be driven too high up tlie river ; hoping in time to see som^ ship at 



bf R0BINS6N C&USOE. Si 

sea^ and therefore resolved to place myself as near the coast as I could. 

At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the creek, to \vhichy 
veith great pain and difficulty, I guided my raft, and at last got so near, as 
that reaching ground with my oar, I could thrust her directly in; but here 
I had like to have dipped all my cargo into the sea again; for that shore 
lying pretty steep, that is to say, sloping, there was no place to land but 
ivhere one end of my float, if it ran on shore, would lie so high, and the 
other sink lower, as before, that it would endanger my cargo again. AU 
that I could do was to wait till ihe tide was at the highest, keeping the raft 
with my oar like an anchor, to hold the side of it £ast to the shore, near a 
flat piece of ground, which I expected the water would flow over ; and so it 
did. As soon as I found water enough, for my raft drew about a foot of 
water, I thrust her upon that flat piece of ground, and there fastened or 
moored her, by sticking my two broken oars into the ground; one on one 
side , near one end, and one on the other side, near the other end : and 
thus I lay till the water ebbed away, and left my raft and all my caigo safe 
on shore. 

My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper place for my 
habitation, and where to stow my goods; to secure them from whatever 
might happen. Where I was, I yet knew not : whether on the continent, 
or on an island ; whether inhabited, or not inhabited ; whether in danger of 
wild beasts, or not. There was a hill, not above a mile from me, which 
rose up very steep and high, and which seemed to overtop some other hills 
which lay as in a ridge from it, northward. I took out one of the fowling- 
pieces, and one of the pistols, and a horn of powder ; and thus armed, I 
travelled for discovery up to the top of that hill.; where, after I had with 
great labour and difficulty got up to the top, I saw my fate, to my great 
affliction, viz. that I was in an island, environed every way with the sea, 
no land to be seen, except some rocks, which lay a great way off, and two 
small islands, less than t^is, wliich lay about three leagues to the west. 

I found also that the island I was in was barren, aind, as I saw good 
reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wUd beasts, of whom, however, 
I saw none; yet I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not their kinds ; nei- 
ther, when I killed them, could I tell what was fit for food, and what not. 
At my coming back, I shot at a great hird, which I saw sittmg upon a 
tree, on the side of a great wood. I believe it was the first gon that had 
been fired there since the creation of tlie world : I had no sooner fired, 
but from all the parts of the wood there arose an innumerable number of 
fowls, of many sorts, making a confused screaming and crying, every one 
according to his usual note; but not one of them of any kmd that I knew. 
As for the creature I killed, I took it to be a kind of a hawk, its colour 
and beak resembling it, but had no talons or claws more than common. 
Its flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing. 

Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft, and fell to work 
to bring my cargo on shore, which took me up the rest of that day : what 
fo do with myself at night, I knew not, nor indeed where to rest : fbr I 
was afraid to lie down on the ground, not knowing but some wild beast 
might devour me ; though, as I afterwards found| there was really no need 
for those fears. 

However; as well as I could; I barricadoed myself round with the chesta 



ti Lrt'E AND AbVENtURfiS 

and boards that I had brought on shore, and made a kind of a hat for that 
night's lodging. As for food, I yet. saw not which way to supply myself, 
except that I had seen two or three creatures, like hares, run out of the 
wood where I shot the fowl. 

I now began to consider, that I might yet get a great many things ont 
of the ship, whicJi would be useful to me, and particularly some of the 
rigging and sails, and sucli other things as might come to hand; and I re- 
solved to make another voyage on board the vessel, if possible. And as I 
knew that the first storm that blew must necessarily break her all in 
pieces, I resolved to ^et all other things apart, till I got every thing out of 
the ship that I conld get. Then I called a council, that is to say, in my 
thoughts, whether I should take back the raft ; but this appeared imprac- 
ticable i so I resolved to go as before, when the tide was down ; and I did 
so, only that I stripped before I went from my hut; having nothing on but 
a chequered shirt, a pair of linen drawers, and a pair of pumps on my feet. 

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second raft ; and having 
had experience of the first, I neither made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it 
so hard, but yet I brought away several things very useful to me : as first, 
in the carpenter's stores, I found two or three ba;;>s of nails and spikes, a 
great screw-jack, a dozen or two gf hatchets; and, above all, that most 
useful thing called a grindstone. All these I secured, together with several 
things belonging to the gunner ; particularly two or three iron crows, anri 
two barrels of musket bullets, seven muskets, and another fowlingpiece, 
with some small quantity of powder more ; a large bagfuU of small shot, 
and a great roll of sheet-lead ; but this last was so heavy, I could not hoist 
it up to get it over the ship's side. 

Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes that I could find, and 
a spare fore-topsail, a hammock, and some bedding ; and whh this I loaded 
my second raft, and brought them all safe on shore, to my very great 
comfort. 

I was under some apprehensions, during my absence from the land, that 
at least my provisions might be devoured on shore : but when I came back, 
I found no sign of any visitor ; only there sat a creature like a wild cat, 
upon one of the chests, which, when I came towards it, ran away a little 
distance, and then stood still. She sat very composed and unconcerned, 
and looked full in my face, as if she bad a mind to be acquainted with me. 
I presented my gun to her, but, as she did not understand it, she was per- 
fectly unconcerned at it, nor did she offer to stir away ; upon which I tossed 
her a bit of biscuit, though by the way, I was not very free of it, for my 
store was not great : however, I spared her a bit, I say, and she went to it, 
smelled of it, and ate it, and looked (as pleased) for more; but I thanked 
her, and could spare no more : so she marched off. 

Having got my second cargo on shore — though I was fain to open the 
barrels of powder, and bring them by parcels, for they were too heavy, 
being large casks— I went to work to make me a little tent^ with the sail, 
and some poles, which I cut for that purpose; and into this tent I brought 
every thing that I knew would spoil either with rain or sun ; and I piled all 
the empty chests and casks in a circle round the tent, to fortify it from any 
sudden attempt either from man or beast. 

When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent with some 



OF ROBINSON GRUSOti. K$ 

boards within, and an empty chest set up on end without; and spreading 
one of the beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols just at my head, 
and my gun at length by me, I went to bed for the first time, and slept 
very quietly all night, for I was very weary and heavy; for the night be- 
fore I had slept little, and had laboured very hard all day, as well to fetch 
all those things from the ship, as to get them on shore. 

I bad th^ biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever was laid up, I be- 
lieve, for one man ; but I was not satisfied still : for while the ship sat 
upright in that posture, I thought I ought to get every thing out of her that 
I could : so every day, at low water, I went on board, and brought away 
somethingorother ; but particularly the third time I went, I brought away 
as much of the rigging as I could, as also all the small ropes and rope- 
twine I could get, wiUi a piece of spare canvas, which was to mend Uie 
sails upon occasion, and the barrel of wet gunpowder. In a word, I 
brought away all the sails, first and last ; only that I was fein to cut them 
in pieces, and bring as much at a time as I could; for they were no more 
useful to be sails, but as mere canvas only. 

But that which comforted me still more, was, that last of all, after I had 
made five or six such voyages as these, and thought I had nothing more to 
expect from the ship that was worth my meddling with ; I say, after all 
this, I found a great hogshead of bread, and three large runlets of rum or 
spirits, and a box of sugar, and a barrel of fine flour ; this was surprising 
to me, because I had given over expecting any more provisions, except 
what was spoiled by the water. I soon emptied the hogshead of that 
bread, and wrapped it up, parcel by parcel, in pieces of the sails, which I 
cut out ; and, in a word, I got all this safe on shore also. 

The next day I made another voyage ; and now, having plundered the 
ship of what was portable and fit to hand out, I began with the cables, and 
cutting the great cable into pieces such as I could move, I got two cables 
and a hawser on shore, with all the iron-work I could get, and having cut 
down the spritsail-yard and the mizen-yard, and every thing I could, to 
make a large raft, I loaded it with all those heavy goods, imd came away; 
but my good luck began now to leave me; for this raft was so unwieldy, 
and so overladen, that after I was entered the little cove where I had 
landed the rest of my goods, not being able to guide it so handily as I did 
the other, it overset, and threw me and all my cargo into the water; as 
for myself, it was no great harm, for I was near the shore ; but as to my 
cargo, it was a great part of it lost, especially the iron, which I expected 
would have been of great use to me : however, when the tide was out, I 
got most of the pieces of cable ashore , and some of the iron, though with 
infinite labour; for I was fain to dip for it into the water, a work which 
fatigued me very much. After this I went every day on board, and 
brought away what I could get. 

I had been now thirteen days ashore, and had been eleven times on 
board the ship; in which time I had brought away all that one pair of 
hands could well be supposed capable to bring ; though I believe verily, 
had the calm weather held, I should have brought away the whole ship, 
piece by piece ; but preparing the twelfth time to go on board, I found the 
wind began to rise : however, at low water I went on board; and though 
I thought I had rummaged the cabin so effectually as that nothhig coulcl 

5 



A4 i^Bm AND ^4>9^iaiTURfiS 

Jtte f6an4, yi^ J.dia0P^iK{d a locker with drawers in it^ ,ia pne of which | 
found JLwo, or jthree ^a^sors, and.oae pair 9f large sclssars^ w;Ub .soii^e.teD or 
^ dozen of ^^d ^v^.wd forks; in a^iolh^r, I fouiid ^ho^t tl|irly-sik 
|)ounds .value j|i moo^y^ •sooie JSuropes^n coin, soj;ue Brazil, sojpie pieces of 
^(it, spo^e gold^ .and some silver. 

I smiled to myself at, Uie.sigfit of this mqney : ".Odr\ig ! "^aJd h ,?ilpwj, 
^^^hat .ai;t ,Uip.u good for ? Thou art not ,worth to xne^ jqo, not the taking 
^ the.f^.o^pd ^.pueof Ihose knives is worth all this hea^; I have ;io;ri)an- 
Aer of u^e fpr.tbee,; e'eo remain wh^e thou art; and go to tl>e jbott^m^ ^s 
.a cjreAtui:e w^ose life is ji;iot worth saving. " Howe.y^r^ ^pqn secpiyi 
;thopgliii?,, J ,topk ,it away^ ^nd wij^^ping ^1 this in a pieiQe pf qanvji^, f. 
'\^9^ to thipk of makipg another raftj but >while I was pcepi^ring this^ I 
iopiid tbp ^ky o:ir€;rcast^ and the wind began .to rise, and in a qii^rter .of 
^n .bow it i^l^w a |i es^h gale from U)e ^hore. jt ^presently Qqcur;*e^ to jooie, 
jtbat \t W9^ Ui yain .tp f)retend to m4ke a ;raft, with Xhp wind .off ^hore; ai^ 
S^^i it w^jQiy JtuMsiness to.be |;qne before .the tide pf flood JiDegaup, or other- 
wise I might not be able to reach ^tlve shore at all. Accordingly I (^t 
Hiy^lf dowfi 4pto tl^e wat^, and SiWfim aci:o^ the qbaqpel which lay 
Jl)e.twisep tljie ^hip apd tlie sands,, and even that with dlflicpliy enoi^)), 
partly w itli ih^e weightpf the things I hf^d,abontine, and p^tly Uie jrough- 
jp^ pf the wi^t^ ; tor the wipd rpse .i^ry h^tily, and.befpre it was ^u^te 
bigh water it hlew a ^tprm. 

Bctt I w^s gat ^me,to,iny little tent, ^w^^ I lay, witji all jpy weal^ 
.^bo^t.me yqry^cure. It blew v^y hard.all thiitnight, andjn the mor^- 
iing, when I, looked ot^t, heboid, j^o <Enpi:e ship was to he seen! I w^^ 
little surprised, but recovered myself with this satisfactory reflection^ vi^s. 
,that I had Jkv^t.np time, ^nd f^bated no.diligence, to get«yery thing out of 
|ier that could be psaful to me, and that, indeed, Uiere was little left |n 
}^t thjs^t I wds^ahie tp |)ripg ^way, if I had had mure time. 

.I.npF jgaye.oYfir finy .more thpughts of the ship, or of any tUip^g ppt pf 
her except what might drive on shore Crom her wreck ; as, indeed, ^lye^ts 
^pieces of her jE^Cter.yy^ds didj but those .^ings were of sm^U use to me. 

Ify t|hQ4&h]^ ,yr^e npw whoUyemploy^d ^^bout^Qpripg.my^lf ag^^inst 
(f;ith<|r ^Vfige^i^ jjf.any jshould appear, or wild beasts, if any were in the 
4al0pd,; ^nd J[ n^din^U^y tbonghts of the method ,))ow,tp<do this, ^d wM 
j(md pf dwelluig tPJnake, whether I should piak^.me a.caye in the 
^rt|i,.pr ,^ tent upon the .earth : juui ,in shprt, J i;esolyed upon jboth; 
^ o^an^er ^nd descrip^on^pf w^^h Umaynot^hejunprpper'to giye an 
laowwt pf. 

I ^n found the plape 1 :9r^as in w^ not lor niy settlement^ particularly 
Jb^pse it w^s npon a low, moori^, gropnd, near the sea, and I believed 
i|t would pot be wholesbme; and more particularly becausp th^re was no 
fresh water near it : so I resolved to find a more healthy and more conye- 
;pient spot of ground. . 

I cpn^ulted several thmgs in my situation, which Ifonnd wpuld be pn>- 
fffc for me .- 4st, Health and fresh water, I just now mentioned : adly, 
Shelter from the heat of the sun : 3dly, Security from ravenous creatures, 
whether men^r l^easts : 4ihly, A view to, the sea, that if God sent aiuf 
^ip ip sight, I might not Ipse pny advantage for pay deiiiveriince> of whi^i 
xl .w^.iM^.t .willing ^0 J^mteh aU my , expectation yet. 



to maxfik fiw afilaee proper for this, I found a little pWn on the aide of 
arisiflg hill, whose front towards this little pUiD was sleep as a bouae 
[|iilBy so that nothing eoold oome down upon me from the top. On the 
ode of this rock there was a hollow place, worn a httle way in, Uhs the 
entrance or door of a cave ; hut there was not really any caxre, or way into 
the rock MalK 

On the A9t of the green, jiisl: fatsfore |his hollow place, I resolved to pitch 
«iy tent. This plam was not above a hundred yards broad, and ahook 
twioe 9s long, anid lay like a green before my door ; and, at the end of it» 
d^^cendfid irregHlarty every way down into the low gromid by the seaside* 
U was on the N. N. W. side of the hill ; so that it was sheltered from the 
hiMUt every day, till it came to a W. and by S. sun, or thereabouts, which» 
in tliose eonnU'ies, is near the setting. 

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle before the hollow plaoa^ 
which took m about ten yards in its senu-diameter from the rock, and 
Vwenty yards in its diameti;r, from its beginning and ending. 

In this half circle I pitched tworows of strong stakes, driving them 
jnfk) tiie gionnd till they stood very 6im like piles, the biggest end being^ 
e«i of tlie ground about live feet and a half, and sharp^ied on the top. 
The two rows did not stand above six inches from one another. 

Then I took the pieoes of cable which I cut in the ship, and laid then 
%i rows, one upon another, within die circle between these two rows 9i 
stakes, np to the top, placing other stakes in tlie inside leaning againsi 
tfrem, about two feet and a half high, like a spur to a post; and this fenoe 
fras ao strong that neither man nor beast could get into it or over it. This . 
cost me a great deal of time and labour, especially to cut the i^iles in Um 
waods, bring them to the place, and drive them into the earth. 

The entrance into this place I made to be not by a door, but by a short 
ladder to go over the tap ; whicli ladder, when I was in, I lifted over after 
me; and so I was completely fenced in and fortified, as I thought, from 
all the world, and ooosequenUy slept secure in the night, which otherwise 
I could not have done; though, as it appeared afterwards, there was no 
need of all this caution from the enemies Ihat I appt^hended danger from.* 

Into tills fence, or fortress, with infinite labour I carried all my riohes, 
all my provisions^ aafimnnition, and stores, of which you have Uie account 
above; and I made a large lent, which, to preserve me from the rains that^ 
in one part of the year are very violent there, I made double, viz. ona 
smaller tent within, and one larger tent above it, and covered the upper- 
most with a large tarpaulin, whieh I had saved among the sails. 

And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which I had brought on 
rfiore, but in a hammock, whicli was indeed a very good one, and belongs 
ed to the mate of the ship. 

Into this tent I brought alf my provisions, and every thing that would 
spoil by the wet; and having thus enrlesed all my goods, I made up the 
entrance, which till now I had left open, and so passed and repassed, as I 
said, by a short ladder. 

When I had done this, I began to work my way into the rock, and 
liringing all the earth and stones that I dag down out through my tent, f 
laid them up within my fence in the nature of a terrace, so that it raised 
the ground withui about a foot and a half; and thus I made me a eave-^ 



just behind my tent,, which senred me like a cellar to my holiM. It e6$t 
me much labour and many days, before alt these things were brought to 
perfection; and therefore I must go back to some other things which took 
up some of my thoughts. At the same time it happened, after I had laid 
my scheme for the setting up my tent, and making the cave, that a storm 
of rain falling from a thick, dark doud, a sudden flash of lightning hap- 
pened, and after that, a great clap of thunder, as is naturally the effect of 
it. I was not so much surprised with the lightning, as I was with a 
thought, which darted into my mind as swift as the lightning itself : O my 
powder! My very heart sunk wilhin me when I thought, that at rnie 
bkist, all my powder might be destroyed; on which, not my defence 
only, but the providing me food, as I thought, entirely depended. I was 
nothing near so anxious about my own danger, though, had the powder 
took fire, I bad never known who had hurt me. 

Such impression did this make upon me, that after the stofm was over, 
I laid aside all my works, my building and fortifying, and applied myself 
to make bags and boxes^ to separate the powder, and to keep it a little and 
a little in a parcel. In hope that whatever might come, it might not all 
take fire at once; and to keep it so. apart, that it should not be possiMe 
to make one part fire another. I finished this work in about a fortnight; 
and I think my powder, which in all was about 2401b. weight, was di- 
vided in not less than a hundred parcels. As to the barrel that had been 
wet, I did not apprehend any danger from that; so I placed it in my new 
cave, which, in my fancy, I called my kitchen, and the rest I hid up and 
down in holes among the rocks, so that no wet might come to it, marking 
very carefully where I laid it. 

In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out at least once 
every day with my gun, as well to divert myself, as to see if I could kill 
any thing fit for food ; and, as near as I could, to acquaint myself with 
what the island produced. The first time I went ont^ I presently ^co- 
vered that there were goats upon the island, which was a great satislac- 
tion to me; but then it was attended with this misfortune to me, vi2. that 
they were so shy, so subtle, and so swift of foot, that it was the most diffi- 
cult thing in the world to come at them : but I was not diseoaraged at 
thisy not doubting but I might now and then shoot one, as it soon hap- 
pened; for after I had fDond their haunts a little, I laid wait in this man- 
ner for them : I observed, if Uiey saw me in the valleys, though they 
were upon the rocks, they would run away as in a terrible fright; but if 
they were feeding in the vaUeys, and I was upon the rocks, they took no 
notice of me ; from whence I concluded, that by the position of their optics, 
theur sight was so directed downward, that they did not readily see ob- 
jects that were above them : so, afterwards, I took this method— I always 
climbed the rocks first, to get above them, and then bad frequently a ftir 
mark. The first shot I made among these creatures, I killed a she-goat, 
which had a little kid by her, which she gave suck to, which grieved me 
heartily ; but when the old one fell, the kid stood stock still by her, till I 
came and took her up ; and not oiily so, but when I carried the old one 
with me, upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to my enclosure; 
upon which, I laid down the dam, and took the kid in my arms, and car- 
ried it over my pale, in hopes to have bred it up tame ; but it would not 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 97 

cal ; so I was forced to kill it, and M, ft myseir. These two sopplied me 
with flesh a great while, tor I ate sparingly, and preserved my piDvisions 
(my bread especially) as much as possibly I eoakl. 

Having now fixed my habitation, I found it absolatety necessary to pn>- 
yide a place to make a fire in, and fiiel to burn ; and what I did for that, 
as also how I enlarged my cave, and what conveniences I made, I shall 
give a loll account of in its proper place : but I must first give some little 
account of myself, and of my thoughts abQUt living, which^ it may well be 
supposed, were not a few. 

I had a dismal prospect of my condition ; for as I was not cast away 
upon that island without being driven, as is said, by a violent storm, quite 
out of the course of our intended voyage ; and a great way, viz. some hun- 
dreds of leagues, out of the ordinary course of the trade of mankind, I had 
great reason to consider it as a determination of Heaven, that In this deso- 
late place, and in this desolate manner, I should end my life. The tears 
would run plentifully down my fece when I made these reflections; and 
sometimes I would expostulate with myself why Providence should thus 
completely ruin its creatures, and render them so absolutely miserable^ 
so abandoned without help, so entirely depressed, that it could hardly be 
rationatto be thankful for such a life. 

But something always returned swift upon me to check these thoughts, 
and to reprove me : and particulariy one day, walking with my gun in 
my hand, by the^aside, I was very pensive upon the sntgeetof my pre- 
sent condition, when reason, as it were, expostulated with me the other 
way, thus : ^' Well, you are in a desolate condition, it is true ; but, pray 
remember, where are the rest of you ? Did nqt yon come eleven of you 
into the boat? Where are the ten ? Why were not tliey saved, and you 
lost? Why were you singled out? Is it better to be here or there? " 
And then I pointed to the sea. All evils are to be considered with the 
good that is in them, and with what worse attends them. 

Then it occurred to me again, how well I was furnished for my subsis* 
ie^ce j and what would have been my case if it had not happened ( which 
was a hundred thousand to one), that the ship floated from the place 
where she first struck, and was driven so near to the shore, that I had 
time to get all these things out of her : what would have been. my case, 
if I bad been to have lived in the condition in which I at first came on 
shore, withoqt necessaries of life, or necessaries to supply and procure 
them! '^Particularly," said I aloud ( though to myself), ''what should I 
have done without a gun, without ammunition, without any tools to make 
.any thmg, or to work with, without clothes, bedding, a tent, or any man- 
ner of ooveriiig? " and that now I had all these to a sufficient quantity, 
wl was in a foir way to provide myself in such a manner as to live with- 
out my gun, when my ammunition was spent : so that I had a tolerable 
view of subsistmg, without any want, as long as I lived ; for I considered, 
Irom the begiiuiing, how I should provide for the accidents that might 
happen, and for the time that was to come, not only after my am- 
munition should be spent, but even after my health or strength should 
decay. 

I confess, I had not entertained any notion of. my anununition bws 
deaUroyed at one blast, I mean my powder being blown up by llgbuiini5 



U LIFE AND AI>f»ITUR26 

•nd this made the Oioaghu of it so luipntidg rae^ wbtti il IghteAei 
and thundered^ as I observed, jost now. 

And now being to eater into a melancholy relation of a seeite of sitent 
Ufis, saeb^ perhaps, as was never heard of in the world belbre, I shall 
take it from its be^nnninf^, and contunie it in its order. It was, by my 
account, the Mth of September, when, in the manner as abote said, I firrt 
set foot upon this horrid island ; wfaea theeun bdng to us in iti afitmnnal 
equinox, was almost josl over i|iy head : for I reckoniki niysHf* hy ot»- 
servation, to be in the latitude of 9 degrees 22 minutes north of the ijme» 

After I had been tliere about ten <» twelve days, it t^me mlo my 
thoughts that I shouhl lose my reckoning of time foi* waht of hooks, and 
pen and inky and should' even forget the sabbath days from tke trorkiag 
days : but, lo prevent this, I cut it with my knife upon a Unrge pM^ in ca* 
pital lettenl; andmakuig it into a great cross, I set it up on the sbote 
where I first landed, viz. '' I came on shore here on the 50tb of SepteiBr 
ber, 46S0." Uponi the ndes of this square post I cut every day a noCcb wilh 
my knife, and every seventh notch Was as long agahi as the real, and 
every first day of the montli as leag again as that long one : and tboa I 
kept my calendar, or weekly, momhly, and yearly reckoning ef tim^. 

But it happened, that among the many tilings which I br6agHt««t ef 
Ibe ship, in the several voyages which, as above mentioned, I mmditM it, 
I got several things of less value, but not at all less useful to ne^ whieii I 
foond, some time after, in rummaging the chests; as, in parCicularf ^eo^ 
ink, and papery several parcels in the captain's^ mate's, gunner'j, and 
carpenter's keeping ; three or four compasses, some, mathematical instra» 
ments, dials, perspectifves^ charts, and books of navigation ; afi wbieb i bapd*- 
died together whether Imigiitwafit (bem or no: also I found three tttf 
good biblea, which came to the in nty cargo from Eagfond, and whM t 
bad packed ap anrang my tidngs ; some Portuguese books also, and, ainei^ 
them, two or three popish prayer books, and several other books, all whkH 
I carefhlly secured. And I must not forget, that we bad in the ship a 
dog, add two cats, of whose eminent history I may harre oceasiorl to MTf 
something, in its place : for I carried both the cats with me ; atld as M 
the do^i he jmDped out of the ship himself, and swam on shore lo nit fll6 
day after I went on shore with my first cargo, and was a trusty servant td 
me tof many years : I wanted nothing that he could fetch me, nor aity 
company tbat he could make up to me, I only wanted to have him taft to 
me, ban that would not do. AS I observed before, I fbtnid peM, ink, and 
paper, and I husbanded them to the utmost: and Ishall stiow tbat wDfiM 
ray bik lasted, I kept thbig» veryVaaet, hot after ttiat was gima I eotfli 
not) for I ea«ld not make any ink by any means that t cohM devise* 
- And tbb pot me in mind that t wanted many things, notwithstandlag 
lA that I had amassed together; and of these, this of ink wasOHf: anaMa 
a spade, pickaxe, and shovel, to dig or remove the earth ; needles, pifM^ 
and thread : as for linen, I soon learned to want that without much dii^ 
ieolty* 

This want of tools made every trork I did go on heavily, and it iTtt 
near a whole year before I had entirely finished my little pale, or snr^ 
laonded my habitation. The j^les or stakes, which were as heavy as I 
eonMvrtf lift^ ware a long linie hi etittbig ^ prepcurUv bi the woifdi; 



0f BnniMsi GftusM. m 

ittd more, bf^ fty, inlwhiyay fconag; ao thatl apent a o i wlii ei tw»diys 
Ir cutting aMi brmgtng hone one of those poete^ and a third day m drt^ 
iiig H into the ground ; isr which porpoae, I got a heafvy piece of wood al 
irsty hot at last bethoogfae myaetf of one of the iion crowa ; which, how- 
ever, though I found it, yet it made driving these posts or pBea very kho- 
yh>«ia and tedious^ work. But what need I to have been eoneerned at the 
todftooanesffof any thiag I had to do, aeeingi had tins enough to do it in? 
dMP had I any olhev enflaynent, iff that hod heen over, at leaat thai I 
could foresee, except the ranging the iaiawlloseek far food; whkh I cid^ 
ttOr^o^jew, ewry day. 

1 00 w bvgw tM* coMrider aerionaly my canditilMiy and tha dv^ 
was reduced to^ and 1 drew op the alaie of aiy alfaira in writings not aai 
MhA to lieav^ thamtoaary tint ware to aiMne after mt (for I was lika la 
have hnt few heinX ^ <o deliver ny thonghls frent daily poring npaa 
thenr, and afHictitfig avy miaNl r andaanny raasan begin ftow toiaattrBiy 
despondei^^ I hegan la cooilbrt myaelf aa wall as i enuid, and to set tba 
good agai^ the evfi, that I atiglic bava iomMmg la di sthg o Wt wy case 
frato wonie ; and I stated very inpartiaUy, like d<^tar and ciedilar, te 
ednttforta I enjoyed /igainst the niieriaa I svilbrcd, tlva : 

EviL.^ Good. 

I am cast u|^ a horrible, deso- But I am alive *, and not drowned, 
lata island^ void of all hope of reoo- as all my ship's company were. 
ve»f. 

I am singled out and separated, But I am suigled out too from all 
m it wart, from all the world, to he the ship's crew, to he spared from 
miserable. death; and ha that miracolnoaly 

saved me from death oaa deliver 

me from this condition. 

I atti divided from mankind, a But I am not starved, and perkh« 

soiKlaire^ one banished from homan iag in a barren place, affording no 

Mdely. sustenance. 

Ihivoiioelatlieatooover me. But I am in a hotcHmate, where, 

if I had clothes, I could hardly wev 

them. 

I am iridiout an^ deflsnoe, or Bat I am cast on an island where 

mean^ to resist any violence of man I see no wild beast to hnrt me, aa I 

or beast. saw on the coast of Africa $ and 

what if I had been ahipwreefcad 
there? 
I have no sotil to speak to, or re- But God wonderfiiny acnt the 
Iteve me. ship in near Enough to the shore, 

that I have got out so many necaa- 
sary things as will either supply 
my wants, or enable md to supply 
myylf, even as long as I Hva. 

Upon the whole, here was an nndonbted testimony, that there was 
{tcarce any condition in the world so miserable, bat there was something 



40 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

negative, or something positive, to be thankful for in it : and let this sUnd 
as a direction, frpm tlie experience of the most miserable of all conditions 
in this world, that we may always find in it something to comfort our- 
selves from, and to set, in the description of good and evil, on the credit 
side of the account. 

Havin*^ now brought my mind a little to relish my condition, and given 
over looking out to sea, to see if I could spy a ship; I say, giving over 
these things, I began to apply myself to accommodate my way of living, 
and to make things as easy to me as I could. 

I have already desoribed my habitation, which was a tent under tlie side 
of a rock, surrounded with a, strong pale of posts and cables ; but I might 
now rather call it a wall, for I raised a kmd of wall against it of turfs, 
about two feet thick on the outside : and after some time (I think it was a 
year and a half), I raised rafters from it, leaning to the rock, and thatched 
or covered it with boughs of trees, and such things as I could get, to 
keep out the rain ; which I found, at some times of the year, very violent. 

I have already observed how I brought all my goods into this pale, and 
nto the cave which I had made behind me. But I must observe, too, 
that at first this was a confused heap of goods, which, a» they lay in no 
order, so tliey took up all my place; I had no room to turn myself; so I 
set myself to enlarge my cave, and work farther into the earth; for it was 
a loose, sandy rock, which yielded easily to the labour I bestowed on it : 
and when I found I was pretty safe as to the beasts of prey, I worked 
sideways, to the right hand, into the rock, and then turning to the right 
again, worked quite out, and made me a door to come out in the outside 
of my pale or fortification. 

' This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were, a back way to my 
tent and to my storehouse, but gave me room to stow my goods« 

And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary things as I 
found I most wanted, particularly a chair and a table ; for without these 
I was not able to enjoy the few comforts I had in the world ; I could not 
write, or eat, or do several things with so much pleasure, without a 
table : so I went to work. And here I must needs oteeiTc, that as reason 
is the substance and origmal of the mathematics, so by stating and squaring 
every thing by reason, and by making tlie most rational judgment of 
things, every man may be, in time, master of every mechanic art. I had 
never handled a tool in my life ; and yet, in time, by labour, application, 
and contrivance, I found, at last, that I wanted nothing but I could have 
made, especially if I had had tools. However, I made abundance of 
things, even without tools; and some with no more tools than an adze 
and a hatchet, which perhaps were never made that way before, and that 
with infinite labour. For example, if I wanted a board, I had no other 
way but to cut down a tree, set it on an edge before me, and hew it flat 
on either side with my axe, till I had brought it to be as thin as a plank, 
and then dub it smooth with my adze. It is true, by this method I could 
make but one board of a whole tree; but this I had no remedy for but 
patience, any more than I had for a prodigious deal of time and labour 
which it look me up to make a plank or board; but my tune or labour 
was little worth, and so it was as well employed one way as another. 

However, I made me a table ^d a chair, as I observed above, in the 



or BOBBfSON CRUSOE. 41 

first place ; and Ihis I did out of the short pieces of boards that I brought 
on my raft from the ship. Bat when I wipught out some boards, aa ' 
above, I made large shelves, of the breadth of a foot and a half, one over 
another, all along one side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron 
work on ; and, in a word, to separate every thing at large in their places^ 
tbat I might easily come at them. I knocked pieces into the wall of the 
rock, to hang my gans, and all things that would hang up : so that had 
my cave been aeeny it looked like a general magazine of all necessary 
things; and I had every thing so ready at my hand, that it was a great 
pleasure to me to see all my goods in such order, and especially to find 
my stock of all necessaries so great. 

And now it was that I began to keep a journal of every day's employ- 
ment; for, indeed, at first, I was in too much hurry, and not only hurry 
as to labour, but in tnuch discomposure of mind : and my journal wohld, 
too, have been full of many dull tilings : for example, I must have said 
thus — '^ Sept 90th. After I had got to shore, and had escaped drownuig, 
instead of being thankful to God for my deliverance, having first vomited, 
with the great quantity of salt water which was gotten into my stomach, 
and recovering myself a little, 1 ran about the shore, wringing my hands, 
and beating my bead and face, exclaiming at my misery, and crying out, 
' I was undone, undone!' till, tired and faint, I was forced to lie down on 
the ground to repose ; but durst not sleep, for fear of being devoured." 

Some days after this, and after I had been on board the ship and got 
all that I could out of her, I could not forbear getting up to the top of a 
little mountain, and looking out to sea, in hopes of seeing a ship : then 
fency that, at a vast distance I spied a sail, please myself with the hopes 
of it, and, after looking steadily till I was almost blind, lose it quite, and 
sit down and weep like a child, and thus increase my misery by my folly. 

But, having gotten over these things in some measure, and having 
settled my household stuff and habitation, made me a table and a chaur, 
and all as handsome about me as I could, I began to keep my journal : of 
which I shall here give you the copy (though in it will be told all these 
particulars over again), as long as it lasted; for, having no more hik, I 
was forced to leave it off. 

THE JOURNAL. 

September 30th, 46SO. I, poor miserable Robinson Gmsoe, being 
shipwrecked during a dreadful storm, in the offing, came on shore on 
this dismal unfortunate island, which I called the Island of Dbspair; 
all the rest of the ship's company being drowned, and myself almost 
dead. 

All the rest of tliat day I spent in afflicting myself at the dismal cir- 
cumstances I was brought to, viz. I had neither food, house, clothes, 
weapon, nor place to fly to : and, in despair of any relief, saw nothing 
but death before me; that I should either be devoured by wild beasts, 
murdered by savages, or starved to death for want of food. At the 
approach of night I slept in a tree, for fear of wild creatures; but slept 
soundly, tliough it rained all night. 

October I. In the morning I saw, to my great surprise, the [ship had 



i($^^ vfkii dii hi^h- tider, antl ^a? dnven otf $kore agaht ihiitcl) ft^aif^ 
fte islaA'df which, ais it was some comfort on one hand (for seeing her 
sSt ul)i<rght, and riOt bfokeA in pieces, I hoped, if the wind abated, I mfght 
^t 6n Sbaft^d', stad get somie food a^id necessaries out of her for my relief ), 
§6 da th6 other hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my comrades. 
Who, I imagined, if we hdd all staid on bt^rd, might have saved Hie sMp^, 
dr, at feasts tAfeit they wottld rtot h^ve been ail drowned, as- they were; 
ind that^ had the meifi be^n sieved*, we might perhaps have bdlK ai$ af 
boat, out 0/ the ftnvs Of th6 sliip, to have earned us^ to some other pM of 
(he vi^brti^ i ipetit great p^rt of tliis day in perplexh^ myself (m tHie^ 
things ; bat, at length seeing the ship ahnost dry, f went upon ih^ samd 
as Mar as I coAM, And then swafm 6it boatdv This day ^so it CiMifmed 
faiaing, (hough with no ivixiA At atl. 

Trdtn the tst of Odoi^ t6 tAe 24th. AH these ^ys eAtireFf speAt lA 
many several voydg^s to g6t all I coald out of the ship; whicft I brought 
on siore, evefy hde of ffood, upoA rafts/ Afuch ram arfso ift these dtty«', 
tl^ough wfth some iiltervals of faic weather : b^t, it seems, this was tN^ 
rainy season. 

6cU 2(0. t overset my raft, and all the goods I had* got npotf ft; be* 
l9eing iir shoal tvater, and the things being chiefly heavy, I TecoverM 
many of them when the tide was out. 

6ct 25'. It rained all night and aft day, ^iiii satft^ gt^st* elf ^tfrf; 
daring which time t&e ship broke if^ pieces (the wind blowing a Ifttle 
Jbard^r than before) and was no more to be seen, etcept the wfeck of hett^, 
and ih&t only at low water. 1 spent this day hi covering amf sec<(ring 
the goods which I had saved, that the rai/i might not spoil them. 

Oct 5^. J walked about the sliore almost all day, to find <mt a place 16 
Ax nxf habitation ; greatly concerned to secure myself from any attitck ik 
tiie night, either from wild beasts or men. Towards m'ght 1 fixed tipon 
a proper pface, under a roc(, and marked out a semicifcle for my encdih{l- 
mehC; which I resolved to strehgthen with a Wdrk, wall, or fbftificatioii, 
made of double piles, lined within Wit& cables, and without with tnfrf. 

From the ^th (0 tlief 50th, t worked very hard lii carfying all mf god* 
to my new habitation, though some part of the time it rained eseeediti^y 
hard. 

The 54 st, in the morning, t weiif out info the island with my gun to see 
for some food, and discover the country, when I killed a she-goat, and 
her kid fbllowed me home, which I afterwa(t^s killed also, befcatKSe it 
would not feed. 

N&tmnher 4 « I set up my tent under a rock, and lay (he^e tat the flfst 
night; making it as large as I could, widi stakes driveh in (0 swinrg 1^ 
bamBMGkupon* 

fi(n. % I set up ari my chests and boards, and the pieces (^ timber 
which made my rafts ; and with them formed a fence round m'6, a little 
wilbiv t^e place I had' marked out fer my fortification. 

2V6V. 5. 1 went out with my gun, and killed two fowls like ducts, 
which were very good food. In the afternoon i went to work to make nke 
a table. 

i¥o^j 4^ This morning I began to order my times of work, of going ^i 
with my gun, time of sleep, and time of diversion^ viz. every morhnig I 



or RcurnHM cnuMK. m 

^Mk«a out wMitty gun loir ti») «i^ three hourt^ ifH cMMinftll^Ml 
asf loyed myself to wdrk till arbotft eleven (f clock; cben me #hi(I Ml Cd 
Ihre on ; artd from twetre to two I lay down te tteep^ tlie wemMr MHg 
^teeseWely hot ^ and then in the evennig, to woit a^fain. TM #oiUA| 
|Mirt of this^by and the neit wad wholly employed in Imfting Wf tabM, 
for I was yet hot a very sorry workman : though time and neeetfiMy MMk 
me a conqrlete natoral mechaiiie Mom after, aa I helteve th^ troiid knj 
OBoelse* 

Mov. S. This day wentatortmd with my g«tt and d^, and Wtkfi k 
wMcf dat| hUr akui prcftiy soft, hot her fleah gcjod fdr ftothiftff f of «Te^ 
cf^ainre that I killed I took off the skins, and preserted IheM. Coming 
haok by the sea sho^e^ I satir many soria of sea Mrl wfaleM I did Mt 
iiQderslaiJd : but was surprised, and akaosi frightened, #itli tw« of fhi^ 
sMls ; which, while I was gaijifg at them ( not iteH knowing wha« they 
wer« ), got hito the sea, and reaped me for that lime. 

Nov. 6. After my morning walk^ I went to wetk wKh my fable igM, 
and inished It, tho^ not to my Ifldog ^nor was R long Mfmi^ I l^arntd 
to mend ii« 

N&vA. MowHbegaatoh«aetlledMrweatW. the7tlr,Mli9llij4m]lr, 
mi part of the 42th (for the lltfa ttss Sonday, According to rtf reckon- 
ing), 1 look wholly op to nttke nle a ohaU*, and WUh nraefa adt> hr(Mi|fbfc 
it to a tolerable shape, bat nerer fo please me, and eten ui the tnakidg, I 
pulled it in pieces several times. 

Nets, i soon neglected my keeping Mhdayi * fhr^ mttiflMg Htj nMtfk for 
Ihem Off voff post, I fsTgot which tra!!- whiefi. 

IVot. 45. This day It Vained^ ivhi^h fefredh^ me exc^Mttgiy, aUd 
eooled the earth; bat it was aoi»mpanied with terrtbte thuhtff^ Mid iigh^ 
xUng, which frightened me dreadfollf , kft fekt 6f my powder. A^ sbdh 
fl» it was Offtt I resolted to separate my stock t/i powdef fM ^ itteny 
mile paroete as possible, that ii might not b^ in danger. 

Not. 44, 45, 49. These three days I sfienf kt makihg BttM ^are 
efaests or boxes, whidi might hold absitt a podnd, or two pounds at most, 
of powder : and so, putting the pot^der ifi, I s^a^#^ it hi plac^^s as secof% 
atid as remote from One another as passible. On one of theto tkf^ 
^ys I killed a largebird that was good (oeat ; bbt t khe w riot ^hit to cafM H. 
Urn. 47. This day t began to dig behind m^ iM, intd tht^ t6(*k, %^ 
ftlake tttoia for my Hftttber bortvMfehtM^. 

Note. Three things I waticed exc(;eding(y fof Hds work, yl^. k ^Isftt, 
d s^oM, attd a wheelbafro\^ df ba^et; s6 i de^iiOdd from my-M>rl; knd 
Yme^ to eon^det itbik to st^piy (be^ Mti% afid make ftve^ iM^ mH. 
As llSff a pldcaxe, i ih^e k^sd of the it-cm (sCot^s, which mtti^vtipA 
tmx^, thotigh heatf i btit thef mx\ thftijg #as a shoTel or ^ftii^* fh^ 
was so ah^lntely nete^tj that hideed I cddld do nothhfg ^^tiali^ 
without it • but What kind of tfrie id make i kn^W not. 

Nmf. 4^. The tttxi day, in searching the woods, I fouild a itfe)^ 6f tfitt 
wood, or like it, which in the firatils tirey can the iron tree, ttom itk 
etceedin^ hafdiiess : of this, with great labout* ahd almd^t ^^llihe n^ 
axe, 1 cot a piece, wilA brooght it home tot), with difficafty eliOugbf, for a 
was ^(Seedutg heavy. The exdessfve hardness of the wood, ^d my haviri| 
no other way, made me a long while upon this machine : tat I Wbttficl 



!44 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

it effectaally. Jay UtUe and Utile, into the forai of a shovel or spade; the 
handle exactly shaped like oars in England, only that the broad; part 
having no iron shod upon it al bottom, it would not last me so long : how- 
ever, it served well enough for the uses which I had occasion to put 
it to; but never was a shovel, I believe, made after that fashion, or so 
long a making. 

I was still deficient : for I wanted a basket or a wheel-barrow. A basket 
I could not make by any means, having no such things as twigs that 
would bend to make wicker ware, at least none yet found out : and as to 
the wheelbarrow, I fancied I could make all but the wheel, but that I had 
DO notion of , neither did I know, how to go about it : besides, I had no 
possible way to make iron gudgeons for the spindle or axis of the wheel 
to run in; so I gave it over : and for carrying away the earth which I dug 
out of the cave, I made me a thing like a hod, which the labourers caoy 
mortar in for the bricklayers. This was not so difficult to me as the mak- 
ing the shovel : and yet this and the shovel, and the attempt whicii I 
made in vaui to make a wheelbarrow took me up no less than four days ; 
I mean, always excepting my morning walk with my gun, which I seldom 
omitted, and very seldom foiled also bringing home somethmg fit to eat. 

Nov. 23. My other work having now stood still, because of my making 
these tools, when they were finished I went on ; and working every day, 
as my strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen days entirely in widen- 
ing and deepening my cave, that it might hold my goods commodiously. 

Note, During all this time, I worked to make this room or cave spacious 
enough to accommodate me as a warehouse, or magazine, a kitchen, a 
diomg room, and a cellar. As for a lodging, I kept to the tent; except 
that sometimes in the wet season of the year, it rained so hard, that I could 
.not keep myself dry; which caused me afterwards to cover all my*place 
within my pale with long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning against 
the rock and load them with flags and large leaves of trees, like a thatch. 

December 10. I began now to think my cave or vault finished ; when 
on a*suddea (it seems I had made it too large), a great quantity of earth 
fell down from the top and one side : so much that, in short, it frightened 
.me, and not without reason too; for if I had been under it, I should never 
have wanted a gravedigger. Upon this disaster, I had a great deal of 
work to do over again, for I had the loose earth to carry out; and, which 
was of more importance, I had the Ceiling to prop up, so that I might be 
sure no more would come down. 

Dec. 11 . This day I went to work with it accordingly ; and got two 
shores or posts pitched upright to the top, with two pieces of board across 
over each post ; this I finished the next day, and setting more posts up 
with boards, in about a week more I had the roof secured; and the posts, 
standing in rows, served nie for partitions to part off my house* 

Dec. 17. From this day to the 20tli, I placed shelves, and knocked up 
nails on the posts, to hang every thing that could be hung up; and now I 
began to be in some order within doors. 

Dec. 20. I carried every thmg into the cave, and began to furnish my 
house, and set up some pieces of boards like a dresser, to order my victuals 
tipon; but boards be^an to be very scarce with me : also I made me 
mother table. 



(at R0B1NS6K CfttSOE; 45 

Dee, 24. Mach rain all niglit and ail day : no stilting dot. 

JDer. 25. Bain all day. 

Dec. 26. No rain; and tlie earth mndi ewAet tlian before, and plea- 
santer. 

Dec. 27. Killed a yoong goat, and lamed another, so that I catched 
it, and Sed it home in a string : wheni had it hone, I hoond and ^m- 
tered up its leg, which was broke. 

iV. B. I look sach care of it that it lived; and the leg grew well and 
as strong as ever : hot, by nursing it so long, it grew tame, and fed upon 
the little green at my door, and would not go away. This was the first 
thne that I entertained a thought of breeding up some tame creatures, 
that I might have food when my powder and shot were all spent. 

Dec, 28, 29, 30, 51. Great heats, and no breeze ; so that there was 
no stirring abroad except in the evening, for food : this time I spent in 
potting all my things In order within doors. 

January 4 . Very hot still ; but I went abroad eariy and late with my 
gun, and lay still in the middle of the day. This evening, going fiirther 
into the valleys which lay towards the centre of the island, I found there 
was plenty of goats, though exceeding shy, and hard to come at; however, 
I resolved to try if I could not bring my dog to hunt them down. Accor- 
dingly, the next day I went out with my dog, and set him upon the goats f 
but I was mistaken, for they all faced about upon the dog; and he knew 
his danger too well, for he would not come near them. 

Jon. 5. I began my fence or wall; which, being still jealous of my 
beuig attacked by somdiody, I resolved to make very thick and strong. 

N, fi. This wall being described before, I purposely omit what was 
said in the journal : it is sufficient to observe, that I was no less time than 
from the 5d of January to the 44th of April, working, finishing, and per- 
fecting this wall; though it was no more than about 25 yards in length, 
being a half circle, from one place m the rock to another place, ahmt 
twelve yards from it, the door of the cave being in the centre, behind it. 

All this time I worked very hard ; the rains hindering me many days, 
nay, sometimes weeks togetlier : but I thought I should never be perfectly 
secure till this wall was finished ; and it is scarce credible what inexpres- 
sible labour every thing was done with, especially the brmging piles out 
of the woods, and driving them into the ground; for I made them much 
bi^er than I needed to have done. 

When this wall was finished, and the outside double fenced, with a turf 
vrall raised up close to it, I persuaded myself that if any people were to 
come on shore there they would not perceive anything like a habitation ; 
and it was very well I did so, as may be observed hereafter, upon a very 
remarkable occasion. 

During this time, I made my rounds in the woods for game every day, 
when the rain permitted me, and made frequent discoveries, in these 
walks, of something or other to my advantage; particularly, I found a kind 
of wild pigeons, who build, not as wood pigeons, in a tree, but rather as 
house pigeons, in the holes of the rocks : and, taking some young ones, r 
endeavoured to breed them up tame, and did ^; hut when they grew 
older they flew all away, which, perhaps, was at first for want ofTeedin^ 
them, for I had nothmg to give them : however, I frequently found their 



nests, and got U^eir yiHmg ones, i^T^cb were yery good mat. ^pd m«^, 
in the managing my household afjfairs, I fonnd myself wanting {n mapy 
tl^ngSy whidli I thpjight at iir$t it was impossible for me to make ; as in- 
deed, as to some of them it was : for instance^ I could never make a cask 
tp be bpfllNeji' I had a small runlet or two, as I observed before ; but I 
cpnld n^yer apriye tp tlie /capacity qf making one by them, though I speni 
many weeks al)out it : I could neither put in thf (leads, por join thft 
^yes so trve to on^ apother as |o wake tl^em hold water ; so I gaye tbat 
^\Bf) pver. In the pe^ place, I was at a great loss fei* capdie ; so that 9a 
s^n as H Wf^ Alafk, which wi^s gipo^rally by seven o'cloisk, } was pblig^ 
to gp IP ^d. J ren^paberfid the lump pf bet's- W9x with which J made 
candles ii| my Africap adyeptpre } bpt I had nonp of that now; tte ooif; 
KpP9p4y I ^^ wa|8, tliat wU^^ I had killed a>goat, I sayed the t^ilQw; 9Pd 
yfflU} a liHle dish piade qf ejyay^ which I baked in th# SiWf to wbi^h | 
added a wick of some oakum, Ipia^^me 9 lamp ; apd Uiis gave me ligM^ 
iiiPPi^ not a c|y^ ste^y light li^js f Cfapdfe* In the ipiddie of aU ipy 
m^oprf it b/^pa^, tb9l W rupppaging my tJtuDgs I fonnd a liitip bag$ 
wliiebi 9S t hinted before, had bysen filled with com for thie feeding ol 

S)p)tfy I pot for th|$ ypyag^, but befope, as J sppppa^, wb^n the sipp cama 
fffs^ ^isbpp. Wli^t I jtUe i-pp2ap4er of cprn had beep in tlie bag W9S all 
deyoured by the rats, and ( saw pothing in the bag but husks and doat^ 
^ lieiqg filling to have ^e bag for sopMS other lose ( I think it was to 
put powder in, whep I divided it for fear of the lightping, or spme spcb 
u$e)y I shook tl)^ hm}^ of cprn out of ii^ on one side of my fortifijeation 

U W9^ ^ Ut^^ ^fior# Ua^e gpesii raip just now mantinned, that I tbiew 
ifff}^ 9ii\if ^way > piking no potiee of any thing, and not so mnob as remeoN 
b^f;ipg U^at I b9d thrown any tbipg there : when about a month after, i 
s^iy iippa^ few st^lka of aometbing greenshootingont of thegroattd« wbieb 
i f^icied Plight be 4omc plant I had not seen; but I was surprised and 
pepfepMy astopl^d, ^bep, adter a little longer time, I saw about ten w 
tVejy^ 9^ oopie put, wbieb were perfect green barley of the same kind 
a^ puf European, pay, aa our Pnglish barley. 

U ia ipKM»i9i|le to ^%j^m ih^ aatpniahment and confusion of my (boogbtt 
(p (hj^ pccaMop : I hfid bilb^rto act^ upon no religious foundation at all; 
ifjd^l^^ I \^i venr few potions of reUgion in my bead, nor had entertained 
any sense of any thing that had befallen me, otherwise than as chance, or» 
as i^e IJS^tly say, wbit p^asas God; without so much as inquiring, into 
H^ ep4 of ProyjdfBi^e |n tbe^e thipga, or his prder in governing events In 
t^e Jff^^f Qul^ afi^F I ^W W^y grow tf^pre, in a climate which I kpay 
y(k upt proper |bf cprp, j^pd especially ^s I l^new pot bow it canie Uiwp, 
it startled me strangely; and I began to su^^est, that God had miracu.- 
lop^y pj)ps(34 tbi^ gr^iii ip gro^ wifhppt any help of seed sown, and tipat 
H Wff 9Q directed fi^Ny fof W sustenance, on that wild miserable plaep. 

Tpi^ tppclfod piy heart a little, and brought tiears out pf my eyes ; and I 
I{^4P tp bless myself tiiat such a prodigy pf natpre sliould hap|)en upon 
ipy a^pnt : and tjps Tfas the more strangp \q me, because I saw near it 
still, all ^long by the side of the rock, some other straggling stalky, whic^i 
proved to be sulks- qf rice, and which I kpp w, ))ecause I had a^ep it grov 
ip Atr^i ybep I w^ ¥^pr^ *here. 



OF Bosmsm gbusq^.. ^ 

f ^ ai|ly lh(>ugbt these the pnreproductions of Prpvideiicf for my sap- 
jport^ bat^ not (doubling that there i^as more in the place, I went over all 
(that part of the island where I had been before, searching in eyery comer. 
,j^id yoder every roc]^ for more of it ; but I could not find any. At last 
jit occurred to my thoughts, that I had shook out a bag of chicken's meat 
,4n that place, and then the wonder began to cease : and I must confess, 
jDiy religious tiiankfulne^ to God's providence began to abate too, upon 
,tbe discovering that all this ^as nothing but what was common ; thoogti 
I ought to have been as thankful for so strange and unforeseen a ppvidenc^e, 
95 yit;h2|d^en miraculous : for it w§s really the work of Providence, as 
.io ^e, that should order pr appoint tliat ten or twely^ grains of corn 
^^hpiild cei^ain unspoiled, .^h^ the rats Jtiad de,sti'oyed all the jrest, jis if 
it h^d heen dropped from heaven ; as also, that I should t,hrow it out in 
.th^t p^ticular place, where^ it being in the $hade of^ high rpck^ it sprang 
^t\p ^wiediately ; where^, if I hfid thrown it any where else^ fit l,h<s(t tl^e, ' 
^t would have been burjucd up and destroyed. 

I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may besnre, V) th^SQa^Qii, 
.which was about the end of June ; and laying up jsvefrY corn^ I r^solv^ to 
.|Mxw tl^em all again ; hoping, in time to have so^e Quantity suCBcient to 
f upply me with bread. But it was not, till the fourth year that 1 qould al- 
Jlpw myself the least ^^in of this corn to eat, and even then b^t^pacingfy, 
^ I ^hali show afterwards, m its order j for I lo^t all (hat Isowe^ the firqt 
season, by not observing the proper tune^ as J^wed just beifojce (;be,dr)r 
^dCfisQB, so.^at it never came up i^t all, at least itpt as it would ^ave .done; 
;Qf which in its pl^ce. 

iQei^ides this barley, tlvece ^ere^as ^^ye, twenty or .thirty Mf^lv of riqQ, 
ci^lHQh f. preserved with ^e savie care; a^d whoise use Wftf of the msw^ 
ikind,.qir tQ .tl^e same purpose, viz. to nia^^e me tiread, or rather food^ Ay* 
J found ways to cook it up without baking, t^oqghldidAhfttalso.a^ 
ifsqme tiiqe.r-^But to return to my Journal. 

I WiCirked e^c^iveljr hard the^e liiree q^ four months, to get mj-w^l 
(done; 9^d on Uie 44lh of April I closed it ^p, contriving to get into it, not 
^y a door, but over the wall, 1^ a Mdder, thfit there miglu Aie no «ign op 
>4he outi^ide of ^ny habitation. 

4prUA9. I finished the iaddQr;,8o I went up w^ theladderlo-tihe^toi^ 
,imd then puUedat up after me, and lent it down in the ipside ; ilm ^as a 
.oomplete ^doswe ,to me; for wiU^in I had room enough, ai|d aotbiDg 
4:onldcoma at me from wUhoiit,..umless it could first mount my >w^. 

The very ne;(t day after this w^U W9S finished, I had almost all my Ja- 
bQur ov^(ibrownat oqqe, and mysctlf mUed ; the 09se was .thus i^As I ^m 
busy in Be inside of it, behind my tent, ju^t at the entrance iotojmy «av^ 
I was terribly frightened with a most dreadful surprising thmg mdeed; 
for aU on a sudden, I found the ea^th come crumbling down from the coof 
of my cave, and from the edge of the hiU over my head, and two ^gl tbe 
posts I had set up in the cave cracked m a frightful manner. I was 
Jhoartily scared; but thought nothing of wiial really was the cause, ciiiy 
(thinking that the top of my cave was laUing in, as sonie of it had done 
l)^ore : and lor fear I should be buried in it, I ran forward to my ladder, 
and not thiidung myself safe .there neither, I got over my wall for fear »t 
Ifac pieces of the hill, whioh I eaq ^e pted might laoH dowaapman^ Itei 



4S liFE AND ADVftimjftilS 

no sooner stepped down npon the firm ground than I plainly saw it w^ a 
terrible earthquake : for the grotind I stood on shook three times at about 
eight mlnales' distance, with three such shocks as would have overturned 
the strongest building that could be supposed to have stood on the earth; 
and a great piece of the top of a rock, which stood about half a mile from 
3ne, next the sea, fell down with such a terrible noise as I never heard in 
4ill my life. I perceived also that the very sea was put into a violent mo- 
tion by it ; and I believe the shocks were stronger under the water than on 
the island. 

I was so much amazed with the thing itself (having never felt the like, 
aior discoursed with any one that had), that I was like one dead or stnpi- 
Bed ; and the motion of the earth made my stomach sick, like one that was 
tossed at sea : but the noise of the falling of the rock awaked me, as it were, 
and rousing me from the stupified condition I was in, filled me with hor- 
Tor ; and I thought of nothing but the hill falling npon my tent and my 
household goods, and burying all at once; this sunk my very soul within 
me a second time. 

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some time, I 
l)egan to take courage ; yet I had not heart enough to go over my wall 
again, for fear of being buried alive, but sat still upon the ground greatly 
«ast down and disconsolate, not knowing what to do. All this while! had 
not the least serious religious thought, nothing but the common Lord have 
wnercy upon me t and when it was over, that went away too. 

While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow cloudy, as if it 
would rain ; and .soon after the vnndrose by little and little, so that in less 
^an half an hour it blew a most dreadful hurricane : the sea was all on a 
sudden covered wHh foam and froth ; the shore was covered with a breach 
«f the water ; the trees were torn up by the roots ; and a terrible storm it 
was. This held about three hours, and tlien began to abate; and in two 
liours more it was quite calm, and began to rain very hard. All this while I 
•sat upon the ground, very much terrified and dejeoted ; when on a sudden it 
'came into my thoughts, that these winds and rain being the consequence of 
the earthquake, the earthquake itself was spentand over, and I might venture 
into my cave again. With this thoughtmy spirits began to revive ; and the 
rain also helping to persuade me, I went in and sat down in my tent ; but 
the rain was so violent that my tent was ready to be beaten down wiUi it, 
and I was foroed to get into my cave, though very much afraid and uneasy, 
for fear it should fall on my head. This violent rain forced me to a new 
work, viz. to cut a hole through my new fortification, like a sink, to let 
the water go out, which would else have drowned my cave. After I had 
l)een in niy cave fbr some time, and found no more shocks of the earthquake 
follow, I b^an to be more composed. And now to support my spirits, 
which indeed wanted it very much, I went to my little store and took a 
small supof mm ; which, however, I did then, and always, very sparingly, 
knowing I could have no more when that was gone. It continued raining 
all that night, and great part of the next day, so that 1 could not stir 
abroad : but my mind being more composed, I began to think of what I 
had best do; concluding, that if the island was subject to these earth- 
quakes, there would be no living for me in^ cave, but I must consider of 
building me spme little but in an open place, which I might surround 



OF KOBmSON CRUSOE. 49 

with a wall as I had done here, and so make myself secore from wild 
beasts or men : fqr if I staid wheiel was, I should certainly one time or 
other be buried alive. 

, With these thoughts, I resolved to remove my tent from the |daoe where 
it now stood, being just under the haoging precipice of the hill, and which, 
if it should be shaken again, would certainly fall upon my tent. I qient 
the two next days, being the 49th and 20th of April, in contriving where 
and how to remove my habitation. The fear of being swallowed alive 
affected me so tfiat I nevor slept in quiet; and yet the apprdiension of 
lying abroad without any fence was afanost equal to it : but still, when I 
looked about, aind saw how every thing was put in order, how pleasantly 
I was concealed, andiiow safe linmi danger, it made me very loath to re- 
move. In tiie mean time it occurred to me that it would require a vast 
deal of time for me to do this; and that I must be contented to run the 
risk where I was till I had formed a convenient camp, and secured it so as 
to remove to it. With this conclusion I composed myself for a time ; and 
resolved that I would go to work with all speed to tmild me a wall with 
piles and cables, etc. in a circle as before, and set up my tent in it when it 
wa^finished ; but that I would venture to stay where I was till it was ready, 
and fit to remove to. This was the 21 st. 

April 22. The next morning I b^an to omsider of means to put this 
measure into execution ; but I was at a great loss about the tools. I had 
three lai^ axes, and abundance of hatdiets ( for we carried the hatchets 
for traffic with tiie Indians ) ; but with much chopping and cutting knotty 
hard wood, they were all fiill of notches, and dull : and though I had a 
grindstone, I could not turn it and grind my tools too. This caused me 
as much thought as a statesman would have bestowed upon a grand point 
of politics, or a judge upon the life and death of a man. At length I con- 
trived a wheel with a string, to turn it with my foot, that I might have 
both my hands at liberty. 

Note. I had never seen any such thing in England, or at least not 
to take notice how it was done, though since I have observed it is very 
common there : besides that, my grindstone was very large and heavy. 
This machine cost me a full week's work to bring it to perfection. 

April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up in grinding my tools, 
my machine for turning my grindstone performmg very well. 

April 30. Having perceived that my bread had been low a great while, 
I now took a survey of it, and reduced myself to one biscuit-cake a day, 
which made my heart very heavy. 

. May 4. In the morning, looking toward the seaside, the tide being low, 
I saw something lie on the shore bigger than ordinary, and it looked like a 
cask : when I came to it, I found a small barrel, and two or three pieces 
of the wreck of the ship, which were driven on shore by the late hurricane ; 
and looking towards the wreck itself, I thought it seemed to lie higher out 
of the water than it used to do. I examined the barrel that was driven 
on shore, and soon found it was a barrel of gunpowder ; but it had taken 
water, and the powder was caked as hard as a stone : however, I rolled 
it farther on the shore for the present, and went on upon the sands, as 
near as I could to the wreck of the ship, to look for more. 

When I came down to the ship I found it strangely removed. This 

4 



50 LIFE AND ABVENTUftES 

« 

forecastle^ which lay before buried in sand, was heaved np at least six feet : 
and the stern (Which was broke to pieces and parted froiq the rest by the 
force of the sea, soon after I had left rummaging of her), was tossed as it 
were np, and cast on one side : and the sand was thrown so high on that 
side next her stern, that I could now walk quite up to her when the tide 
was out ; whereas there was a great piece of water before, so that I could 
not coine within a quarter of a mile of the wreck without swimming. I 
was surprised with this at first, but soon concluded it must be done by the 
earthquake; and as by this violence the ship was more broke open than 
fermerly ) so nyauy thhigs came daily on shore, which the sea had loosened, 
and which the winds and water rolled by degrees to the land. 

This wholly diverted iny thoughts from the design of removing my ha- 
bitation; and I busied myself mightily, that day especially, in searching 
whether I could make any way into the ship : but f found nothing was to 
be expected of that kind, fot* all the inside of the ship was choked up with 
^nd. However, as I had leahied not to despahr of anything, I resolved 
to pull every thing to pieces that I could of the ship, concluding that every 
thing I could get from her would be of some use or other to me. 
• May 5. I began with ray saw, and cut a piece of a beam through, 
which I thought held some of the ppp^r part or quarter deck together; 
and when I had cut it through, I cleared away the sand as well as Icould 
from the side which lay highest; but the tide coming-in, I was obliged to 
^ve over for that time. 

May 4. I went a fishing, but caught not one fish that I durst eat of, till 
I was weary of my sport ; when just going to leave off I caught a young 
dolphin. I had made me a long line of some ropeyarn, but I had no 
books ; yet I frequently caught fish enough, as much as I cared to eat; all 
which I dried in tiie sun, and ate them dry. 

May 5. Worked on the wreck : cut another beam asunder, and brought 
three great fir planks off from the decks ; which I tied together, and made 
swim on shore when the tide of flood came on. 

May 6. Worked on the wreck ; got several iron bolts out of her, and 
other pieces of iron work ; worked very hard, and came home very much 
tired, and had thoughts of giving it over. 

May 7. Went to the wreck again, but not with an intent to work : 
'tnt found the weight of the wreck had broke itself down, the beams bein^ 
cut ; that several pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose ; and the inside of 
the hold lay so open that I could see into it; but almost full of water and 
sand. 

Bfay 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow to wrench np 
thei deck, which lay now quite clear of the water and sand. I wrenched 
np two planks, and brought them on shore also with the tide. I left the 
iron crow in tjie wreck for next day. 

May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow made way into the 
body of the wreck, and felt several casks, and loosened them with the 
crow, but could not break them up. I felt also a roll of English lead, and 
could stir it; hut it was too heavy to remove. 

May 40—44. Went ev^ry day to the wreck; and got a great many 
pieces of timber and boards, or plank, and two or three hundred weight of 

WOD* 



OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. 51 

May 45. I carriecl two hatchets, to try if I could not cut a piece ofF the 
roli of lead, by placing the edge of one hatchet, and driving it with the 
otlier; but as it lay about a foot and a half in the water) I could not make 
any blow to drive the hatchet. 

May 46, It had blown bard in the night, and the wreck appeared more 
broken by the force of the water; bat I staid so long in the woods, to get 
pigeons for food, that the tide prevented my going to the wreck that day. 

May 47. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore, at a great 
distance, two miles off me, but resolved to see what they were, 'and found 
it was a piece of the head, but too heavy for me to brihg away. 

May 24. Every day to this day I worked on the wreck; and with hard 
labour I loosened some things so much with the crow, that the first blow^' 
B^ lide several casks floated out, and two of the seamen's chests : but the 
wind blowing from the shore, nothing came to land that day but pieces of 
thhber, and a hogshead, which bad some Brazil pork in it ; but the salt 
itater and the sand ha^ spoiled it. I continued this work every day to 
the 45th of June, except the time necessary to gerfood; which I always 
appointed, during this part of my employment, to be when the tide was 
uj^, tbal[ I might be reacfy when it was ebbed out : and by this -time I had 
gotten timber, and plank, and iron-work, enoagh to have built a good 
boat, if I bad known how : and J also gut. at several times, and in several 
pieces, near one hundred weight of the sheet lead. 
* Jui^e 4 6. Going down to the seaside, I found a lai^e tortoise, or turtle. 
Tins was the first I had seen, which, it seems, was only my misfortune, 
flfit any defeict of the place, or scarcity ; for had I happened to be on thd 
other side of the island, I might have had hundreds of them every day, as 
I found afterwards ; but perhaps had paid dear enough for them. 

June 47. I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in her threescore 
eggs : and her flesh was tome, at that time, the most savoury and pleasant 
that I ever tasted in my life ; having had no flesh but of goats and fowl 
since I landed in this horrid place. 

June 48. Rained all that day, and I staid within. I thought at this 
time the rain felt cold, and I was somewhat chilly, ^ivhich I knew was 
not usual in that latitude. 

June 49. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather had been cold. 

June 20. No rest all night; violent pains in my head, and feverish. 

June 24. Yery ill; friglttened almost to death with the apprehensions 
of my sad condition, to be sick, and no help : prayed to God, for the first 
time since the storm off Hull; but scarce knew what I said, or why, my 
thoughts being all oonfused. 

June 22. A little better ; but under dreadful apprehensions of sickness. 

June 25. Yery bad again, cold and shivering, and then a violent 
headache. 

June 24. Much better. 

June 25. An ague very violent : the fit held me seven hour$; cold fit 
and hot, with Taint sweats after it. 

June 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat, took my gun, but 
found myself very weak : however I killed a she-goat, and with much 
difficulty got it home, and broiled some of it, and ate. I would fdixk bav<$ 
Stewed it, and made some broth, but had no pot, 



S3 LIFE AND ADVENTOR^i . 

June 27. I^he ague again so violent that I lay abed ail day, and nei-* 
ther ate nor drank. I ^ras ready to 4)erish for thirst ; bat so weak I had 
not strengtli to stand up, or to get.myself any water to drink. Prayed, to 
God again, bat was lightl^aded : and when I was not, I was so ignorant 
that I knew not wiiat lo say; only lay and cried, ^' Lord\. look upon me ! . 
Lord, pity me ! Lord, have mercy upon me ! " I suppose I did nothing 
elto for two or three hoars; till the fit wearing off, I fell asleep, and did 
iiot wake till far in the night. When^I awoke, I found myself much re- 
freshed, but weak, and exceeding thirsty : ho^eiter, as I had no water in 
my whole habitation, I was forced to lie Ull morning, and went to sleep 
again. In this second sleep I had this terrible dream : I tboaght that 1 
was sitting on the ground on the outside of my wall, where I sat when the 
storm blew aft^r the earthquake; atnd that I saw a man descend from. a 
great black cloud, in a l)right flame of lire, and light upon the ground : 
he was all over as brighfasa flame, sa that I could but just bear to look 
towards him : his countenance was most inexpressibly dreadful, impos- 
sible for words to describe.: when he stepped upon the ground with his 
feet, I thought the earth trembled, Just as it had done before in the earth- 
quake; and all the air looked, to my apprehension, as if it had been filled 
with flashes of fire. He had no sooner landed upon the earth, but he 
moved forward towards me, with a long spear or weapon in his hand, to 
kill me ; and when he came to a rising ground, at some distance, he spoke 
to me, or I heard a voice so terrible that it is impossible to express the ter-: 
ror of it : all that I can say I understood was this : '^ Seemg all these, 
ihings have not brought thee to repentance, now thou shalt die; " at 
which words I thought he lifted up the spear that was in his hand to 
kill me. 

No one that shall ever read this account, will expect that I should be 
able to describe the horrors of my soul at this terrible vision ; I mean, 
that even while it was a dream, I even dreamed of tbpse horrors; nor is 
it any more pcfssible to describe the impression that remained upon my 
mind when I awaked, and found it was but a dream. 

I had, alas ! no divine knowledge : what I had received by the good 
instruction of my father was then worn out, by an uninterrupted series, 
for eight years, of seafaring wickedness, and a constant conversation with 
none but such as were, like myself, wicked and profane to the last degree. 
i do not remember that I bad, in all that time, one thought that so much 
as tended either to looking upward towards God, or inward towards a 
reflection upon my own ways : but a certain stupidity of soul, without 
desire of good, or consciousness of evil, had entirely overwhelmed me; 
and I was all that the most hardened, . untliinking, wicked creature 
among our common sailors, can be supposed to be ; not having the least 
sense, dther of the fear of God in danger, or of thankfulness to him in de- 
liverances. 

In the relating what is already passed of my story, this will be the more 
easily believed, when I shall add, through all the variety of miseries that 
had to this day befallen me, I never had so much as one thought of its 
being the hand of God, or that it was a just punishment for my sin j either , 
my rebellious behaviour against my father, or my present sms, which were^ 
f reat| or even as a punishment for the general course of my wicked life. ' 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. SS 

When I was on the desperate expedition on the desert shores of Africa, t 
never had so much as one thoagnt of what would hecome of me; or oniS 
wish to God to direct me whither I should go, or to keep me from the 
danger which apparently surrounded me, as well from voracibos creatmreSi 
as cruel savages : but I- was quite thoughtless of a God or a Providence', 
acted like a mere brute, from the principles of nature, and by the dictates 
of common sense only ;'aiid indeed hardly that. When I was delivered and 
taken up at sea by the Portuguese captain, well used, and dealt with justif 
and honourably, as well as charitably, I had not the least thankfhlness 
in my thoughts. When, again, I was shipwrecked, ruined, and iA 
danger of drowning, on this island', I was as for from remorse, or looking 
on it as a judgment : I only said to myself often, that I was an unfortunate 
dog, and borii to be always miserable. 

It is true, when I first got on shore here, and foond all my ship's crew 
drowned, and myself spared^ I was surprised with a kind of ecstasy, and 
some transports of soul, which, had the grace of God assisted, might have 
come up to true thankfulness ; but it ended where it b^an, in a meit 
common flight of joy, or, as I may say, being glad I was alive, without 
the least reflection upon the distinguished goodness of the hand Which haA 
preserved me, and had singled me out to be preserved, when all the resft 
were destroyed, or aninquiry why Providence had been thus merciful t6 
me : just the same common sort of j.oy which seamen generally have'^ 
after they are got safe ashore from a shipwreck; which they drown all in 
the next bowl of punch, and forget almost as soon as it is over : and all the 
rest ofmy life was like it. Even when I was afterwards, on due con- 
sideration, made sensible of my condition,— how I was cast on this dreadfrd 
place, out of the reach of human kind, out of all hope of relief, or prospect 
of redemption, — as soon as I saw but a prospect of living, and that I 
should not starve itfid perish for hunger, all the sense of my affliction 
wore off, and I began to be very easy, applied myself to the works proper 
for my preservation and supply, and was for enough from being afBicted 
at my con<fition as a judgment from Heaven, or as the hand of God 
against me : these were thoughts which very seldom entered huto my 
head. 

' The growmg up of the com, as is hinted in my Journal, had, at first, 
some little influence upon me, and began to affect me with seriousness, as 
loAg as I thought it had something mfraculous in it; hot as soon as that 
part of the thought was removed, all the impression which was raised 
from it wore off also, as I have noted already. Even the earthquake, 
though nothing could be more terrible in its nature, or more immediately 
directing to the invisible Power which alone durects such things, yet, no 
sooner was the fright over, but the impression it had made went off also. 
I had no more sense of God, or his judgments, much less of the present 
affliction of my circumstances bdng from his hand, than if I had been in 
the most prosperous condition of life^ But now, when I began to be nek, 
and a leisure view of the miseries of death came to place itself before me; 
when my spirits began to sink under the burden of a strong distemper, 
and nature was exhausted with the violence of the fever; conscience, 
that had slept so long, began to awake; and I reproached myself with 
my past life, in which I had so evidently, by uncommon wickedness, ^htq^ 



54 LIFE ANP ADVENTURES 

voked the justice of (^od to lay me under unepnunon strokes, and to deal 
yfiih me i^ so vindictive a manner. These reflections oppressed me for 
idle second or third day of my distemper ; and in the vioknee as wdl of 
ithe fever as of the dreadful repi'oaches .of my conscience, extoi:fed from 
)aae some wiHrds like praying to God ; though I cannot say it Vfus a 
prayer attended either with desires or yn\h hopes ; it was rather the voice 
of mere fright and distress. My thoughts were confused ; the convic- 
tions great upon mj mind; and the hnprof of dying ip. soch a miserable 
jcondi^on raised vapours in my .head with the mere appr^ension : and in 
^hese hurries of my soul, I knew not what my tongue might express : hot 
Itw^s rather excla{nation, snch as, ^'Lord, wliat a miserable creature 
am I ! If I should be sick, I shall certainly die for want of help ) apd what 
:wiU becomeof me ?" Tlien the tears burst out of my eyes, and I could say 
•no more jGn* a.gogd while. In this intei*val, the good ac^vice of my father 
.came to my mind, and presently his prediction, which I mentioned at the 
iieginping of this story, viz. tha( if I did take this foolish step, God 
jwould not Uess me ; and I should have leisure hereafter to reflect upon 
paving neglected his counsjel, when there might be none to assist in my 
jrecovery. *^ Now, " said I, aloud, ^^ my dear fether's words are come to 
jpass; God's justice has overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear 
me. I rejected the voice of Providence, which had mercifully put me in 
a station of life therein I might have been hapK^y and easy ; bat I would 
neither , see it myself, nor learn from my parents to know the blessing 
of it* 1 left them to mourn over my folly ; and now I am left to mourn 
imder the consequences of it : I refused their help and assistance who 
would have pushed me in the worlds and v^ould have made every tbil^ 
easy to me.^ and now I have difficulties to struggle with too great.for even 
nature itself to support ; and no, assistance, no comfort, no ;advice." Then 
I cried out, *^Lord, be my help, fori am in great distress." This was 
Ihe first prayer, if I may call it so, that I had made for many years. Bat 
I return to my Journal. 

June 2$. Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep I had had, 
and the fit Jieing entirely off, I got up ; and though the fright and terrol: 
of my dream lyas very great, yet I eonisidered thatthe.fit of the ague would 
l*eturn again the next day, and now was my time to get something to 
refresh and support myself when I should be ill. The first tlnr^ I did 
was to fill a large square case-bottle with water ; and set it upon my 
table, in re^ch of my bed } and tp take off the chill or aguish disposition Of 
the water, f put about a quarter of a pint of rum into it, and mixed thein 
together* Then I got me a pieoe of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on th^ 
coals^ but could eat very little. I walked about ; but was very weak, and 
^ithal very s^d and lieavy-hearted under a sense of my miserable condition, 
dreading the return of my dis(em|:)er the next day. At night, I made 
my supper of three of the turtle's eggs, wRich I roasted in the ashes, and 
ate, as we call it, in the shell : and this was the first bit of meat I had ever 
asked God's blessing to, as I could remember, in my whole life. After I 
had eaten, I tried to walk ; but found myself so weak that I could hardly 
(»rry the gun (for I never went out without that) ; so I went hot a little 
jwf y, and sat down 4ipon the ground, loddog out upon Ifie sea, which wn 
just before me, a^d very calm and smooth. As I sat here, some audi 



OF ROHNSON CRUSOE. 5j 



thoQghts 18 theft occurred to me : What is this etrth and sei/of whidi I 
have seen so mach ? Whence is it prodooed ? And what am !« and all 
the other creatures, wild and tame^ haman and brutal ? Whence are we? 
Sorely, We are aU made by some secret power, who formed the earth 
and sea, ihe air and sky. And who is that? Then it followed most 
iiatarally,— It is God that has made all. Well, bat then, it came oi 
strangely, if God has made all these things, he guides and governs thcs 
all, and all things that concern, them; for the power thai eoold make all 
things must certainly have power to gdide and diceet them : if so, nothing 
can happen, in the great cvcait of his works, either without his knowledge 
or appointment. 

And if nothing happens wjihent his knowledge^ he knows that I ani 
here, and am in this dreadful condition : and if nothing happens without 
bis appointment, he has appointed all this to belall me. Nothing occurred 
to my thought to contradict any of these eonehuions 7 and therefore it rested 
npcm me with the greatest foroe, that it must needs be that Ged bad ap* 
pointed all this to befall me; that I was brought U> this miserable circnm-* 
stance by his direction, he having the sole power, not of me only, but of 
every thing that happens in the world. Immediately it foilfowed, Why has 
&od done this to me ? What have I done to be thus used? My eonsdenee 
presently checked me in that inquiry, as if I had blasphemed ; and methovight 
it ^poke to me like a voice, ^' Wretch ! dost thou ask what thou hast done ? 
Look back upon a dreadful misspent life, and ask thyself, what thou hast 
not done? Ask, why. is it that thou wert not long ago destroyed? Why 
wert thoA not drowned in Yarmouth Roads; kiyed in the fight when tfao 
^ip was taken by the Sallee man of way; devoured by the wM he«ts on 
the coast of Afriot ; or drowned here, when all the terew perished but thfw 
self? Dost tlwu ask what tliou hast done ?" I was struck dumb with thoK 
l^iectio^, as oneastoid^Kd, and had not a word to siy ; no, not to answer 
to myself; and, lisb^ op peilsive and sad, Walked baek to my retreat, and 
went over my wall, as if I had been going to bed :H>utiAy thoughts wei^ 
badly disturbed, and I had no mclmation to sleep ; 90 1 sat do wn inihe ehait 
and lighted my lamp, for it began to be dark. Now, as the apprehension 
bf the rehirti of my distemper terrified me very much, it occhrredto mf 
thought, that the Brazilians take no physic but their tobacco for almost aH 
distempers ; and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco in &nk of the bfaests, which 
was quite cured; and some also that was green, and not qnite cured. 

I went^ directed by Heaven no doubt : for in this chest I foiMid a cure 
hodi for soul and body. I opened the chest, and found what i looked fom, 
vh. the tobacco ; and as the few books I had savM lay there too, f lookout 
one of the Bibles which I mentioned liefore, and which to this time I had 
hot found leisure, or so much as inclination, to look hito. I say^ I tocfc 
it out, and brought both that and the tobacco with me to llie laMe. 
What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as to my d^tempei^ 
nor whc^er it was good for it or not; but I tried several experiments 
with it, as if I was resolved it should hit one way or other. I first toolc 
a piece of the leaf, and chewed it in my mouth ; which, indeed, at fir^ 
almost stupified my brain; the tobacco being green and strong, and such 
as I had not been much used. to. Then I took some and steeped it an 
hour or two in some rum, and resolved to take a dose of it when I lay 



56 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

down : and, lastly, I bnmed some upon a pan of coals, and held my nose 
close over the smoke of it as long as I could bear it; as well for the heat as 
almost for suffocation. In the interval of this operation, I took up the 
Bible, and began to read ; but my head was too much disturbed with the 
tobacco to bear reading, at least at that time ; only having opened the book 
casually, the first words that occurred to me were these : ^^ Call on me in 
the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me. '' 
These words were very apt to my case ; and made some impression upon 
my thoughts at the time of reading them, ibongh not so much as they did 
afterwards; for, as for being delivered, the word had no sound, as I may 
say, to me; the thing was so remote, so impossible in my apprehension of 
things, that, as the children of Israel said when they were promised flesh 
to eat, '^ Can God spread a table in the wilderness ? " so I beigan to say, 
Can even God himself deliver me from this place ? And as it was not for 
many years that any hopes appeared, this prevailed very often upon my 
thoughtis : but however, the words made a great impression upon me, and 
I mused upon them very dften. It now grew late ; and the tobacco bad, as 
I said, dozed my head so much that I inclined to sleep : so I left my lamp 
burning in the cave, lest I should want any thing in the night, and went 
to bed. But before I lay down, I did what I never had done in all my 
life; I kneeled down, and prayed to God to fulfil the promise to me, that 
if I called upon him in the day of trouble, he would deliver me. After ray 
broken and imperfect prayer was oter, I drank the rum in which I had 
steeped the tobacco; which was so strong and rank of the tobacco that in* 
deed I could scarce get it down : immediately upon this I went to bed. 
I found presently the mm flew up into my head violently ; but I fell into 
a seated sleep, and waked no. more till, by the sun, it must necessarily be 
near three o'clock in the afternoon the next day : nay, to this hoar I am 
partly of opinion, that t slept all the next day and night, and till almost 
three the day after ; for otherwise I know not bow I should lose a day oat of 
my reckoning in the days of the week, as it appeared some years after I 
had done ; for if I had lost it by crossing and recrossing the line, I shoald 
have lost more than one day ; but certainly I lost a day in my account, and 
never knew which way. Be that, however, one way or the other, when 
I awaked, I found myself exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and 
eheerfdl : when I got up, I was stronger than I was the day before, and 
my stomach better, for I was hungry; and, in short, I had no fit the next 
day, bat continued much altered for the better. This was the 29th. 

The 50th was my well day, of course ; and I went abroad with my gun, 
bat did not care to travel too (ar. I killed a seafowl or two, something like 
a brand goose, and brought them home ; but was not very forward to eat 
them ; 80 I ate some more of the turtle's eggs, which were very good. 
This evening I renewed the medicine, which I had supposed did me good 
the day before, viz. the tobacco steeped in rum; only I did not take so 
much as before, nor did I chew any of the leaf, or hold my head over the 
smoke : however, I was not so well the next day, which was the Ut of 
July, as I hoped I shoald have been; for I had a little of the cold fit, but 
it was not much. 

July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways : and dosed myself 
with it as at first, and doubled the quantity which I drank. 



OF ROtmSON GEUSOE. 87 

July 3. I missed the fit for good and all, thoagh I did not reooTer my 
fall strength for some iweeks after. While I was thog gathering strength, 
my thoughts ran exceedingly upon this scripture, '* I will deliver thee; " 
and the impossibility of my deliverance lay much upon my mind, In bar of 
my ever expecting it : bnt as I was di*>oonraging myself with sach thooghta, 
it oecarred to my mind that I pored so much npon my detiverance from 
the main affliction that I disregarded the deliverance I had received; and 
I was, as it were, made to ask myself such questions as these* viz. Have I 
not been delivered, and wonderfully too, from sickness; from the most 
distressed condition that could be, and that was so frightAil to me? and 
what notice have I taken of it? Havel dmie my part? God has ddivered 
me, but I have not glorified him; that is to say, I have not owned and 
been thankful for that as a deliverance : and how can I expect a greater 
deliverance ? This touched my heart very much ; and immediately I knelt 
down, and gave God thanks aloud for my recovery ihmi my siokness. 

July 4. In the iboming I took the Bible ; and beginning at the New 
Testament, I began seriously to read ii; and imposed upon m3^1f to read 
awhile every morning and every night ; not binding myself to the nmnber 
of chapters, but as long as my thoughts should engage me. It was not 
long after I set seriously to this work, that I found my heart more deeply 
and sincerely affected with the wid^edness of my past life. The impression 
of my dream revived ; and the words, '' AJl these things have not brought 
thee to repentance," ran seriously in my thoughts. I was earnestly 
begging of God to give me repentance, when it happened providentially, 
the very same day, that reading the scripture, I came to these words, **He 
is exalted a Prince and a Saviour; to g|ve repentance, and to give remis- 
sion. " I threw down the book ; and with my heart as well as my hands 
lifted up to heaven, in a kind of ecstasy of joy, I cried out aloud, ^' Jesus, 
thou Son of Bavid! Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour ! give me re- 
pentance ! " This was the first time ua ai my life I could say, in the true 
sense of the words, that I prayed ; fbr now I prayed with a sense of my 
condition, and with a true scripture view of hope, founded on the encou- 
ragement of the word of God : and firom this time, I may say, I began to 
have hope that God would hear me. 

Now I begaufi to construe the words mentioned above, ''Gall on me, and 
I will deliver thee," in a different sense firom what I bad ever done before ; 
for then I had no notion of any thing being called deliverance, but my 
being delivered from the captivity I was in : for though I was indeed at 
large in the place, yet the island was certainly a prison to me, and that in 
the worst sense in the world. But now I learned to take it in another 
sense : now I looked back upon my past life with such horror, and my 
sins appeared so dreadful, that my soul sought nothing of God bnt de- 
liverance from the load of guilt that bore down all my comfort. As for 
my solitary life, it was nothing : I did not so much as pray to be delivered 
from it, or think of it; it was all of no consideration in comparison with 
this. And I add this part here, to hint to whoever shall read it, that 
whenever they come to a true sense of things, they will find deliverance 
from sin a much greater blessing than deliverance from affliction. But, 
leaving this part, I return to my Journal. 

My condition began now to be, though not less miserable as to my way 



pS LIFE iiND ADVENTURES 

of iMagf yet mach easier to my nuad : and my thooghts being directed*^ 
by oonstantly reading the Scripture and praying to God, to things of 
|. higher nature, I had a great deal ef comfort within, which, till now, I 
knew nothing of ; also, as my health and strength returned, I beslirred-me to 
rornish myself with everything that I wanted, and make my way of Itvmg 
as regular as I could. 

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I, was chiefly employed in waHdng 
about with my gun in my hand, a little and a little at a time, as a man that 
was gathering tip his strength after a fit of sickness : for it is hardly to be 
lm9^;«Ued how lotr I was^ and to what weakness I was reduced. The 9^tf 
eatioa which I made use of was perfectly new, and perhs^ what had never 
eared an ague before ; neither can I recommend it to any one to practise^ 
by this ^Kperiment : and though it did carry off the fit, yet it'ra^er cqa* 
trifouted to weakenii^me^ for I had frequent convulsions in my. nerves 
and limbs to some time. I learned from it also this, in particukr ; tbat 
being abr«>ad in the rainy season was the most pernicious thing lo nif 
heaHh that conld be, especially in those rains which came attended with 
storms and hurricanes of wind ; for as the rain which came in the dry 
season was almost always accompanied with such storms, so I found Hu^ 
Ums rain was much more dangerous than the rain which fell in September 
an^d Octoftier. 

I had now beienin this unhappy island above ten months : aUpoesibiHty 
of deliverance from this condition seemed to be entirely taken from me; 
and I firmly beMeved that no hnman shape had ever set foot upon thai 
place. Having secured my habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind, I 
luid a great desire to wake a nuere perfect discovery of the island^ land to 
see what other productions I might find, whidi I yet knew nothing ef. 

It was on the i^lii of July that I began to take a more particular survey 
ef the istend itself. I went dp the creek firsts where, as I hinted, I 
brought my rafts on shore; i found, after I came about two miles i^ 
^at the tide did not flowany higher ; and that it was no more than a IkUe 
brook of ranahigivater, very fre^h and good : but this being the dry season; 
there was hardly any water in some parts, of It ; at least not any stream; 
On the hktkk of this brook I found many pleasant savamudis or mea- 
dow^ plain, smooth, nnd covered with grass : and on the rising parts of 
them, next to the higher grounds ( where the water as it miglit be sup- 
t>osed never overflowed), I found a great deal of tobacco, gi^een, and 
Ifrowing to a i^y great and strong stalk: and there were divers othe^ 
^aiH8| which I had no knowledge of^ or understanding about, and that 
might, perhaps, have virtues of their own, which I could not find out. I 
searched for the cassava root, which the Indians in aU that dimate make 
tiieir bread of, but I could find none. I saw large plants of aloes, 
bnt did not understand them. I saw several sugarcanes, but wiM ; and^ 
for want of cultivation, imperfect. I contented myself with these diseo^ 
teries for this time ; and came back, musing with myself what course I 
might take to know the virtue and goodness of any of the fruits or plants 
which I should discover; but could bring it to no conclusion ; for, in short, 
I had made so little observation while I was in the Brazils, that I knew 
little of tile plants in the field ; at least, very fittle that ndght serve noe to 
any purpose now in my distress. 



t» 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. « 

I * • 

The Dttxt day, the 46th, I went op the same way again; mAMk 
going something hrihfr than I had gone the* day.beftire^ l-ftrancl Iha 
brook and savannahs b^in to cease, and the country beeomcniom wood)r 
than before. In this part I fonnd different fmits ; and pankNiiar^ I Mnd 
melons upon the ground, in great abundance, and grapes op^n the treei ; 
the vines, indeed, had spread over the trees, and the dusters %t gnp^ 
were now just in theur prime, very ripe and rich. This wais a smyi s irtj^ 
discovery, and I was exceedingly glad of them, but I was warned by my 
iexperience tp eat sparingly of them ;. remembering that when 1 ^rasasliolfe 
in Barbary, the eating of grapes killed several of oai' Englishmen^ will> 
were slaves ti[iere, by throwing them into fluxes and fevers, ifonnd, 
however^ an exodlent use for these grapes ; and that wa6 to enre or dry 
them in the sun, and keep them as dried grapes or raiMna are i^ept'; 
which I. thought would be (as indeed they were) as wholesome and as 
agreepbie to eat, when no grapes were to be had. 

I spent all that evening there^ and went not liack to my liabfCff- 
tion ; whidi, by the way, was the first nijght as I might say i haU 
Wn from home. At night, I took my first eontrivancet and got np iilto a 
tree, wherel slept well, and the next morning proceededon my diseovery, 
travelling near four miles, as I might jadge by the length of the valley; 
keepu^ still due north, with a ridge of hills on the south and noklh Mbb 
of me. At the end of this m«rch I came lo an openings where the coihtr^ 
seemed to descend to the west^ and a little sprinig of fresh waiter, wMeh 
issued out of tbe side of the hill by me, ran the other Way^ thai Is', due 
east } and the country appeared so fresh, so green, so ftmrislnng, every 
thing being in a constant verdure, or flonrlsh of spring, ttiat it looked Hke 
a planted garden. I descended a little on the side of that delicious vaM, 
surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure < though mixed with otiier 
afflicting Uioughts), to think that this Was Ml my own ; thati was king antt 
Jord of all this coontry indefeasibly, and had a right of possession; an<l^ 
if I could cdnvey it, I might have it in kiheritanee as eompletely as anV 
lord of a manor in England. I saw here abundance of eoeoa tnies, am 
orac^, lemon, and citron trees, but all wild, and very few bearing any (hifl; 
«t least not then. However, the greeh limes that I gathered Were not otoly 
pleasant to eat, but very wholesome; and I mbced their jniee aftctwarcn 
with water, which made it very wholesome, and very cool and Mresbing". 
I ftmni now I had business enough to gather and ^arry home; arid I 
TCsolved to lay up a store, as wetl of grapes as limes and lemons, to l^nfiA 
Inyself ior the wet season, wliieh t knew was approaching. In Ord^ t^ 
|his I gathered a great heap of ^apes fai one place, a lesser heap ift linoth^ 
place; and a great parcel of limes and melons in another place; aifA 
taking a few of each with me, I travelled homeward ; and resolved to 
oome agahi, and bring a bag or sack, or what I could make, t6 carry the 
rest home. Aecordingfy, having spent three days in this journey, I eaale 
home (so I must now call my tent and my cave) : but before I got IhHhehl 
the grapes were spoiled ; the richness of the fruit, and the weight m 
the juice, having broken ftnd braised them, they were good ft>r little cfr 
nothing : as to the limes, they were good, but I could bring only afeW. 

The next day, being the l^h, I went back, having made me two small 
bags to bring home my harvest ; but I was surprised^ when^ coming to my 



60 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

heap of grapes, which were so rich and fine when I gathered them, I 
found them all spread about, trod to pieces, and dragged about, some here, 
some there, and abundance eaten and devoured. By this I concluded 
there were some wild creatures thereabouts which had done this, but 
what they were I knew not. However, as I found there was no laying 
Ihem up in heaps, and no carrying them away in a«aeft ; but that one way 
ihey would be destroyed, and the other way they would be crushed with 
their own weight; I took another course : I then gathered a large quan- 
4;ity of the grapes, and hung them upon the out branches of the trees, that 
ihey might cure and dry in the sun; and as for the limes and lemons, I 
•carried as many back as I could well stand under. 

When I came home from this journey, I contemplated' with great plea- 
sure the fruitfuhiess of that valley, and the pleasantness of the situation ; 
the security from storms on that side ; the water and the wood : and con- 
cluded that I had pitched upon a place to fix my abode in, which was by far 
the worst part of the country. Upon the whole, I began to consider of 
removing ray habitation, and to look out for a place equally safe as where 
I was now situate, if possible, in that pleasant fruitful part of the island. 

This thought ran long in my head; and I was exceeding fond of it for 
some time, the pleasantness of the place tempting me : but when I came 
to a nearer view of it, I considered that I was now by the seaside, where 
it was at least possible that something might happen to my advantage, and, 
by the same ill fate that brought me hither, might bring some other unhappy 
wretches to the same place ; and though it was scarce probable that any 
such thing should ever happen, yet to enclose myself among the hills and 
woods in the centre of the island, was to anticipate my bondage, and to 
render such an affair not only improl^ble, but impossible; and Uiat ther&- 
/ore I ought not by any means to remove. However, I was so enam- 
oured of this place, that I spent much of my time there for the whole re- 
maiiiing part of the month of July; and though upon second thoughts I 
resolved, as above stated, not to remove, yet I built me a little kind of a 
bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a strong fence, being a dou- 
ble hedge , as high as I could reach, well staked, and filled between with 
brushwood. Here I lay very secure, sometimes two or three nights to- 
gether; always going over it with a ladder as before : so that I fancied now 
I had my country and my seacoast house. This work took me up till the 
beginning of August. 

I had but newly finished my fence, and began to ei^oy my labour, when 
^the rains came on, and made me stick close to my first halnlation : for 
though I had made a tent like the other, with a piece cff sail, and spread 
it very well, yet I had not the shelter of a hill to keep me from storms, 
nor a cave behind me to retreat into when the rains were extraordinarf . 

About the beginning of August, as I said, I had finished my bower, and 
began to enjoy myself. The 5d of August, I found the grapes I had hung 
up were perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent good raisins of the 
sun : so I began to take them down from the trees ; and it was very happy 
that I did so, as the rains which followed would have spoiled them, and 
I should have lost the best part of my winter food; for I had above two 
hundred large bunches of them. ,No sooner had I taken them all down, 
and cfurried most of them home to my cave, but it began to rain : and 



OP KOBmSON CRtJSOE. ^ 

from hence, which was the 44th of August, it rained oiof^ or less every 
day till ihe middle of Ociober; ai^d somelunes so violently that I could 
not stir out of my cave for several days; 

In this season I was much surprised with the increase of my family. I 
had been concerned for the loss of one of my cats, who ran away from ne, 
or, as I bought, had been dead ; and I heard no more of her, till, to my 
astonishment, she came home with three kittens. This was the more 
strange to me, because, about the end of August, though I had killed a 
wild cat as I called it, with qiy gun, yet I thought it was quite a different 
kind from our European cats : yet the young cats were the same kind of 
house-breed as the old one; and both of my cats being females, I thought, 
it very strange. But from these three, I afterwards came to be so pes- 
tered with cats, that I was forced lo kill them like vermin, or wild beasts^ 
and to drive them from my house as much as possible. 

From the 44th of Aogtist to the 26th, incessant rain; so that I could not 
stir, and was now very careful not to be much wet. In this confinement 
I began to be straitened for food; but venturing out once or twice, I one 
day killed a goat, and the last day, which was the 26th, found a very 
large tortoise, which was a treat to me. My food was now regulated 
thus > I ate a bunch of raisins for my breakfast; « piece of the goat's flesh, 
or of the turtle broiled for my dmner (for, to my great misfortune, I had 
no vessel to boil or stew any thmg); and two or three of the turtle's eggs 
for my supper. 

During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I woriced daily two < 
or three hours at enlarging my cave, and by degrees worked it on to- 
-wards one side, till I came to the outside of the hill; and made a door, or 
-way out, which came beyond my fence or wall : and so I came in and out. 
tliis way. But I was not perfectly easy at lying so open : for as I had ma-^ 
naged myself before, I was in a perfect enclosure; whereas now, I thought 
I lay exposed ; and yet I could not perceive that there was any livmg thudg 
to fear, the big£;:est creature that I had yet seen upon the island being a goat.. 

September SO. I was now come to the unhappy anniversary of my land- 
ing. I cast up the notches on my post, and found I had been on shore: 
three hundred and sixty-five days. I kept this day as a solemn fast, set- 
ting it apart for religious exercise, prostrating myself on the ground with 
the most serious humiliation, confessing my sins to God, acknowledging: 
his righteous judgments upon me, and praying to him to have mercy on 
me through Jesus Christ ; and having not tasted the least refreshment for 
twelve hours, even till the going down of the sun, I then ate a biscuit and 
a bunch of grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as I began it. I had 
all this time observed no sabbath-day ; for as at' first I had no sense of reli7 
gion upon my mind, I had, after some time, omitted to distinguish the 
weeks, by making a longer notch than ordinary for the sabbath-day, and 
so did not really know what any of the days were : but now having cast 
up the days as above, I found I liad been there a year, so I divided it into 
weeks, and set apart every seventh day for a sabbatli : though I found^ , 
at the end of my account, I had lost a day or two in my reckoning. A tit- 
tle after this, my ink begiiming lo fail me, I contented myself to use it 
more sparingly; and to wiite down only the most remaikable events of my , 
life without oontinuing a daily memorandum of other things. 



as LtFC ATQ) Al>V£NTUll£S 

« 

' The rainy season and the dry season began now to appear regular to me> 
flDd I leamM to divide them so as to provide for them accordingly ; bnt I 
bought all my experience before I had it ; and what I am going to relate 
was one of the most discouraging experiments that I had made at all. 

I have mentioned that I had saved the few ears of barley and rice which 
Ihadsosorprisingly foaitd sprung up, as I thought; of themselves. I believe 
there wereaboot thirty stalks of rice, and about twenty of barley^ and now 
I tboQghi ita proper time to sow it after the rains; the sun being in its 
southern position, going from me. Accordingly I dug a piece of ground, as 
weU as I Gonld with my wooden spade, and dividing it into two parts, I 
sowed my grain ; but as I wa9 sowing, it casually occurred to my thoughts 
that I would not sow it all at first; because I did not tnow when was the 
proper time lor it ; so < sowed about two-thirds of the seed, leaving about a 
l^Hutfol of each : and it was a great t^mfort to me afterwards that I did so^ 
for not one grain of what I sowed this time came to any thing; for the dry 
month Uie following, and the earth ^ving thus had no rain aflers seed was 
sown^ il Ind no^moisture to assist its growth, and never came up at 
all tifl Hke wet season had come again, and then it grew as if it had 
bfen but newly sown. Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easily 
iisagined was from the drought, I sought for a nioister piece of ground to 
npake another trial in; and I dug up a piece of ground near my new bow- 
eipy 'and sowed the rest of my seed in February, a little before the ver- 
nal eqninex* This, having the rainy months of March and April to water 
it, sprung up very pleasantly, and yielded a very good crop; but having 
only pjiirtof the seed left, and not daring to sow all that I had, I got but a 
snail €[uantity at last, my whole crop not amounting to above half a peck 
of each kind. But by this experiment I was made master of my business, 
and knew exactly when was the proper time to sow; and that I might 
eqMCt two seed times and two harvests every year. 

' While this com was growuig, I made a little discovery, which was of 
use to me aJFterwards. As soon as the raiiis were over, and the weather 
began to settle, which was about the month of November, I made a visit 
up the country to my bower; where, though I had not been some months, 
yk I found all things just as I left them. The circle or double hedge that 
I had made was not only firm and entire, but the stakes which I had cut 
out of some trees that grew thereabouts, were all shot out, and grown with 
long branches, as mudi as a willow tree usually shoots the first year after 
lopping its head ; bat I could not tell what tree to call it that these stakes 
were eut from. I was surprised, and yet very well pleased, to see the 
young trees grow ; and I pruned them, and led them to grow as much 
alike as I eould : and it is scarce credible how beautiful a figure they grew 
into in three years; so that, though the hedge made a circle of about 
twenty-ftve yards in diameter, yet the trees, for. such I might now call 
them, soon covered it, and it was a complete shade, sufficient to lodge 
nnder all the dry season. This made me resolve to cut some more slakes, 
and make me a hedge like this, in a semicircle round my wall (I mean 
that of my first dwelling), which I did; and placing the trees or stakes 
in a double row, at about eight yards distance from my first fence, they 
grew presently; and were at first a fine cover to my habitation, and after- 
yrards served for a defence also ; as I shall observe in its order. 



6f ROBmsoN GRUsoe. es 

t found now that the seasons of the year might generally be divided, 
not Into sanuner and winter, as m Europe, but into Ihe rainy seasons and 
the dry seasons, whkh were generally thus .- From the middle of February 
to the middle of April, rainy ; the sun being then on or near the equinox. 
From the middle of April till the middle of August, dry; tbe sun being 
then north of the Lfaie. From the middle of August till the middie of 
October rainy ; the sun being Iben come back to tbe Line. From the 
middle of October till the middle of February ^ dry ; the sun being then to 
the south of t^e Line. 

The raiJtiy seasons held sometimes longer and sometimes shorter, as the 
winds happened to blow; but this was the general observation I made* 
Afier I faaid found, by experience, the ill consequences of being abroad ip 
tbe rain, I took care to foruisb myself wi^h provisions befecehaod^ that I 
might not be obliged to go out : and I sat within doors as much as poasiblp 
daring the wet months. In this time I found mnch enqitoymentf and 
very suitable also to the time ; for I found great oeeasion for many Ihiaga 
wbich I had no way to furnish myself with but by hard labour and eoastmt 
application : particularly, I tried many ways to make myself a basket; halt 
all the twigs I could get for the purpose proved so brittle that they would 
do nothing. It proved of exceUent advantage to me now, that|wbBnI 
was a boy, I used to take great delight in standing at a basket-maker^ in 
the town where my father lived, to see them make their wicker ware; and 
being, as boys usually are, very officious to help, and a great oiMenrer of 
the manner bow they worked those things, and someiunes lending & hand^ 
I had hsf these means fuU knowledge of the method of it, so that I wanted 
nothing but the materials ; when it came into my mind, that tlie twigs of 
that tree fh>m whence I cut my stakes that grew might possibly be as 
lough as ^e sallows, willows, and osiers, in England; I rewived to try. 
Accordmgly , the next day I went to my countfy house, as I eaUed* it, and 
cutting some of the smaller twigs, I found them to my purpose as much as 
I could desire : whereupon I came the next time prepared with a hatchet 
to cut down a quantity, which I soon found, for there was great plenty of 
them. These I set up to dry wittiin my circle or hedge; and when they 
were fit for use, I carried them to my cave : and here, during the next 
season, I employed myself in making, as well as I could, several baskets^ 
both to carry earth; or to carry or lay up any thmg as I had occasion for. 
Thoagh I did not finish them very handsomely, yet I made them sioffi^^ 
ciently serviceable for my purpose : and thus afterwards I took care never 
to be without them; and as my wicker ware decayed, I made more; es- 
pecially strong deep baskets, to place my com in, instead of sacks, when 
I should come to have any quantity of it. 

Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a world of thne about it, 
I bestirred myself to see, if possible, how to supply two other wants. I 
had no vessel to hold any tlung that was liquid, except two runlets, which 
were almost full of rum; and some ^ass bottles, some of the common 
size, and others (which were case bottles) square, for the holding of 
waters, spurits, etc. I had not so much as ti pot to boil anything; except 
a great kettle which I saved out of the ship, and which was too big far 
such use as I desured it, viz. to make broth, and stew a bit of meat bf 
itself. The second thing I would &in have had was a tobacco-pipe^ bnl i( 



;t 



U Life and adventures 

>vas impodsibte for me to make one; however, I foand a conlriyance for 
that too at last* I employed myself in planting my second row of stakes 
•or piles,^ and also in this wicker working, all the summer or dry season ; 
when another business took me up more time than it.conld be imagined 
I could spare. 

I mentioned before, that I had a great mind to see the whole island; 
•and that I had travelled up the brook, and so on to. where I had buOt my 
bower, and where I had an opening quite to the sea, on the other side of 
ihe island. I now resolved to travel quite across to the seashore, on that 
aide : so taking my gun, a hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quantity of 
powder and shot than usual; with two biscnit-^^Jces, and a great bunch 
of raisins in my pouch for my store ; I began my journey. ' When I had 
passed the vale where my bower stood, as above, I came within view of 
the sea, to the west; and it being a very dear day, I fairly descried land, 
whether an island or .continent I could not tell; but it lay very high, ex- 
tending from W. to W.S.W. at a very great distance; by my guess it 
>cobld not be less than fifteen or twenty leagues off. 

. I conld not tell what part of the world this might be; otherwise than 
that I knew it must be part of America; and, as I concluded by all my 
observations, must be near the Spanish dominions : and perhaps was all 
inhabited by savages, where^ if I should have landed, I had been in a 
worse condition than I was now. I therefore acquiesced in the disposi- 
fions of Providence, which I began now to own and to believe ordered 
«very thing for the best ; I say, I quieted my mind with this, and left off 
afQicting myself with fruitless vnshes of being there. 

Besides, after some pause upon this'affair, I considered that if this land 
was the Spanish coast, I should certainly, one time or other, see some 
-vessel pass or repass one way or other; but if not, then it was the savage 
coast between the Spanish country and the Brazils, whose inhabitants are 
indeed the worst of savages ; for they are cannibals, or men-eaters, and 
fail not to murder and devour all human beings that fall into their hands. 

With these considerations, walking very leisurely forward, I found this 
side of the island, where I now was, much pleasanter than mine ; the 
open or savannah fields sweetly adorned with flowers and grass, and full 
of very fine woods. I saw abundance of parrots; and foin would have 
caught one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame, and taught it to speak 
to me. I did, after taking some pains, catch a young parrot; for I 
knocked it down with a «tick, and having recovered it, I brought it 
home ; but it was some years before I could made him speak ; howev^, 
at last I taught him to call me by my name very familiarly. But the ac- 
cident Ihat followed, though it be a trifle, will be very diverting in its 
place. 

I was ^[ceedtngly amused with this journey. I found in the low 
grounds hares, as I thought them to be, and foxes; but they differed great- 
ly from all the other kmds I had met with, nor could I satisfy myself to 
cat them, though I killed several. But I had no need to be venturous : for 
I had no want of food, and of that which was very good too ; especially 
these three sorts, viz, goats, pigeons, and turtle, or tortoise. With these, 
added to my grapes, Leadenhall market could not have furnished a table 
better than I, in proportion to the company ; and though my case was de- 



6F HOBtNSON Clii;S6£. 6S 

|)lorable enoagfa, yet I had great caitte for thankfolness ; as I was not dri- 
ven to any extremities for food, but had rather plenty, even to dainties. 

I never travelled on tbis journey above two miles oatright in a day, or 
thereabouts ; but I took so many turns and returns, to see what discove- 
ries I conld make, that I came weary enough to the place where I resolv- 
ed to sit down for the night; and then I either reposed myself in a tree, 
or surrounded myself with a* row of stakes, set upright in the ground, 
either from one tree to another, or so as no wild creature could come at 
me without waking me. 

As soon as I came to the seashore, I was surprised to see that I had 
taken up my lot on the worst side of the island : for here indeed the shore 
was covered with innumerable turtles; whereas on the other side, I had 
found but tluree in a year and a half. Here was also an inGnite number 
of fowls of many kinds; some of which I had seen, and some of which I 
had not seen before, and many of them very good meat; but such as I 
knew not the names of, except those called penguins. 

I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very sparing of my 
powder and shot ; and therefore had more mind to kill a she-goat if I could, 
which I could better feed on. But though there were many goats here, 
more than on my side the island, yet it was with much more difficulty 
that I could come near them, the country being flat and even, and they 
saw me much sooner than when I was upon a hill. 

I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter than mine ; yet 
I had not the least inclination to remove ; fbr as I was fixed in my habita- 
tion, it became natural to* me, and I seemed all the while I was here to be 
as it were upon a journey, and from home. However, I travelled along 
the seashore towards the east, I suppose about twelve miles; and then set- 
ting up a great pole upon the shore for a mark, I concluded I would go 
home again ; and that the next journey I took should be on the otlier side 
of the island, east from my dwelling, and so round till I came to my post 
again : of which in its place. 

I took another way to come back than that I went, thmking I could easUy 
keep so much of the island in my view, that I could not miss my first 
dwelling by viewing the country, but I found myself mistaken; for being 
come about two or three miles, I found myself descended into a very large 
valley, but so surrounded with hills, and those hills covered with wood, 
that I could not see which was my way by any direction but that of the 
sun, nor even then, unless I knew very well the position of the sun at 
that time of the day. And it happened, to my farther misfortune, that 
the weather proved hazy for three or four days while I was in this valley ; 
and not being able to see the sun, I wandered about very uncomfortable, 
and at last was obliged to find out the seaside, look for my post, and come 
back the same way I went; and then by easy journeys I turned homeward, 
the weather being exceedingly hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, 
and other things very heavy. 

In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and seized upon it : and 
running to take hold of it, I caught it, and saved it alive from the dog. I 
had a great mind to bring it home if I could ; for I had often been musing 
whether it might not be possible to get a kid or two, and so raise a breed 
of tame goats, which might supply me when my powder and shot should 

5 



06 tJJFE AND ADTENTURBS 

be all spent I made a collar for Uiis littie creature, and with a string 
wliich I had made of some ropeyarn wliich I always carried about me, I 
led him along, though with some difficulty, till I came to my bower, and 
there I enclosed him and left him ; for I was very impatient to be at hom<^ 
i(f om whence I had been absent above a month. 

I cannot express what satisfaction it was to me to conie into my old 
butch, and lie down in my hammock-bed. This little wanderipg journey, 
without a settled place of abode, had been so unpleasant to me, that my 
own house, as I called it to myself, was a perfect settlement to m% com- 

fare^ to tl^at; and it r^dered every tbmg about me so comfortable, that 
resolved i y^oiild never go a great way firom it again, while it should be 
py lot to stay on the island, 

I reposed myself here a week^ to rest and regale myself after iny long 
journey : durii^ which, most of the time was taken up in the weighty 
affair of making a cage for my Poll, who began now to be more domestic, 
and to be mighty weU acquainted with me. Then I began to think of the 
poor kid which I had penned within my lUtfe circle, and resolved to fetch 
it home, or give it some food : accordmgly I went, and found it where I 
left it ( for indeed it could iiot get out ], but was almost starved for want 
of food. I went and cut boughs of trees, and branches of such shrubs as 
I could find, and threw it over, and having fed it, I tied it as I did before 
to lead it away ; but it was so tame with being hungry, that I had no need 
to have tied it, for it followed me like a dog : and as I continually fed 
it, the creature became so loving, so gentle, and so fond, that it was 
from that time one of my domestics also, and would never leave me aftei^ 
wards. 

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come,' and I kept 
the 30th of September in the same solemn manner as before, being the an- 
niversary of my landing on the island ; having now been there two years, 
and no more prospect of my being delivered than the first day I came 
there. I spent the whole day in humble and thankful acknowledgments 
for the many wonderful mercies which my solitary condition was attended 
with, and without which it might have been infinitely more miserable. I 
gave humble and hearty thanks to God for having been pleased to discover 
lo me, that it was possible I might be more happy, even in this solitary 
eon^ditipn, tlian I should have been in the enjoyment of society, and io all 
ike pleasures of the world t that he could fully make up to me the defici- 
encies of my solitary state, and the want of human society, by his presence, 
aqd the communications of his grace to my soul; supporting, comforting, 
and encouraging, rae to depend upon his providence here, and to hope for 
bis eternal) presence hereafter. 

It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more happy the life 
I now led wa9» with all its miserable circumstances, than the wicked, cur- 
sed, abominable life I led all the past part of my days : and now I changed 
both my sorrows and my joys : my very desires altered, my affections 
changed their gnst, and my delights were perfectly new from what Ihey 
were at my fijrst coming, or indeed for the two years past. 

Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting, or for viewing the 
eonntry, the anguish of my soul at my condition would break out upon me 
OOiksndden^ andmy very heart would die within me, to thinkof the woods, 



OF EOnnssoN cacsoK. m 

the monntains, the deserts I was in; and how I was a.prisono'y Icicl^ediip 
iidth the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in an nninhabited wilderness, 
without redemption. In the midst of the greatest composure of my mind, 
this would break out upon me like a storm, and make me wring my hands, 
and weep like a child : sometimes it would take me in the middle of my 
work, and I would ipunediately sit down and sigh, and look upon the 
ground for an hour (nr two together : this was stUl worse to me; but if I 
cbuVd burst into tears, or give vent to my feelings by words, it would go 
off; and my grief being eidbausted, woul^ abate. 

But now I be^ to exercise myself with new thou^ts ; I daily read the 
\jrord of God, and applied all the comforts of it to my present state. One 
morning, being very sad, I opened the Bible upon these words, " I will 
never leave thee, nor forsake thee :*' immediately it occurred that these 
itords were to me ; why else should they be directed in such a manner, 
jhst at the moment when I was mourning over my condition as one foi^ 
^ken of God and man ? '^ Well then, ^ said I, '' if God does not forsake 
nrie, of what ill consequence can that be, or what matters it, though the 
world should forsake me ; seeing on the other hand, if I had all the \^orld, 
and should lose the favour and blessing of Godi there would be no compa- 
rjbon in the loss ? " 

From this moment I began to conclude m my nund, that it was possi- 
ble for me to be more hai^y in this forsaken, solitary condition, than it 
was prohable I should ever have been m any other particular state in the 
world; and with this thought I was going to gtve thanks to God for bring- 
ing me to tbisi>iace. I know not what it was, but spmething shocked my 
nkiud at that thought, and I durst not speak the words. ^* How canst thoa 
life such a hypocrite, ** said I even audibly, '^ to be thankful for a condition, 
which, however thou mayst endeavoiur to be contented with, thou wouldst 
rather pray heartily to be delivered Grom ? " Here I stopped : but though 
% could not say I thanked God for being here, yet I sincerely gave thanks 
tp God for opening my eyes, by whatever afQicting providences, to see the 
former condition of my life, and to mourn for xhy wickedness, and re- 
pent. I never opened the Bible, or shut it, bdt my very soul vnthin me 
blessed God for directing my friend in England, without any order of 
mine, to pack it up among my goods ; and for assisting me afterwards to 
save it out of the wreck of the ship. 

Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third year; and 
^ough I hav^ not given the reader the trouble of so particular an account 
^ my works this year as the first, yet in general it may be observed, that 
I was very seldom idle; but having regularly divided my time, according 
io the several daily employments that were before me ; such as, first, My 
duty to God, and the reading the Scriptures, which 1 constantly set apart 
spme time;for, thrice every day : secondly, Going abroad with my'gnn 
for food, which generally took me up three hours every morning, when it 
<Sd hot rain : thirdlv, Ordering, curing, preserving, and cooking what I 
had killed or catched for miy supply. These look up great part of the day ; 
^Iso it is to be considered, that in the middle of the day, when the sun 
i^as in the zenith, the violence of the heat was too great to stir out ; so 
(hat about four hours in the evening was all the time I could be supposed 
fo work in; with this e^^ception, that sometimes I changed my hours of 



eg UtE AND AbV£!mjft£S 

btmttngaiid working, and went to work in the morning, and abroa<) with 
my gun in the afternoon. 

To this short time allowed for laboar, I desire may be added the ex- 
treme laborioiYsness of my work; the many hoars which, for want of tools^ 
want of help, and want of skill, every thing I did took up out of my time: 
for example, I was full two-and-forty days making me a board for a long 
shelf, whichi wanted in my cave; whereas, twosawyers, with their tools and 
a saw-pit, would have cut six of them out of the same tree in half a day. 

My case was this ; it was a large tree which was to be cut down, be- 
cause my board was to be a broad one. This tree I was three days cutting 
down, and two more in cutting off the boughs, and reducing it to a log or 
piece of timber. With inexpressible hacking and hewing, I reduced both 
the sides of it into chips, till it was light enough to move; then I turned it, 
and made one side of it smooth and flat as a boa^rd, from end to end; then 
turning that side downward, cut the other side, till I brought the plank to 
be about three inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Any one may 
judge the labour of my hands in such a piece of work ; but labour and pa- 
tience carried me .through that, and many other things : I only observe 
this in particular, to show the reason why so much of my time went away 
with so little work, viz. that what might be a little to be done with help 
and tools, was a vast labour, and required a prodigious time, to do alone^ 
and by hand. Notwithstanding this, with patience and labour I went 
through many things-; and, indeed, every thing that my circumstances 
made necessary for me to do, as will appear by what follows. . 

I was now in the months of November and December, expecting my crop 
of barley and rice. The ground I had manured or dug for them was nut 
great; for, as I observed, my seed of each was not above the quantity of 
half a peck, having lost one whole crop by sowing in the dry season : but 
now my crop promised very well ; when on a sudden I found I was in 
danger of losing it all again by enemies of several sons, which it was scarce 
possible to keep from it; as first, the goats, and wild creatures which I 
called hares, who, tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night and 
day, as soon as it came up, and ate it so close that it could get no time to 
shoot up into stalk. 

I saw no remedy for this, but by making an enclosure about it with a 
hedge, which I did with a great deal of toil ; and the more, because it re- 
quired speed. However, as my arable land was but small, suited to my 
crop, I got it tolerably well fenced in about three weeks' time ; and shooting 
some of the creatures in the day time, I set my dog to guard it in the 
night, tying him up to a stake at the gate, where be would stand and bark 
all night long; so in a little time the enemies forsook the place, and the 
corn grew very strong and well, and began to ripen apace. 

But as the beasts ruined me before, while my com was in the blade, 
so the birds were as likely to ruin me now, when it was in the ear : for 
going along by the place to see how it throve, I saw my little crop sur- 
rounded with fowls, I know not of how many sorts, who stood, as it were, 
watching till I should be gone. I immediately let fly among them, for I 
always had my gun with me ; I had no sooner shot, but there arose up a 
little cloud of fowls, which I had not seen at all, ft-om among the corn 
itself. 




OF ROBmSON CRUSOE. 69 

This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a few days they would 
deroar all my hopes ; that I should he starved, and neyer be able to raise 
a crop at all ; and what to do I could not tell : however^ I resolved not to 
lose my com, if possible, though I should watch it night and day. In the 
first place, I went among it to see what damage was already done, and 
found they had spoiled a good deal of it; but tbat as it was yet too green 
for them, the Joss was not so great, but that the remainder was likely to be 
a good crop, if it could be saved. . 

I staid by it to load my gun, and then coming away, I eonld easily see 
the tliieves sitting upon all the trees about me, as if they only waited till I 
was gone away; and the event proved it to be so; for, as I walked off, as if 
gone, I was no sooner out of their sight than they dropped down, one by 
one, into the com again. I was so piovoked that I could not havepatience 
to stay till more came on, knowing ihat every grain they eat now, was, as 
it might be said, a peck loaf to me in the consequence; so coming op to the 
hedge, I fired again, and killed three of them. This was what I wished 
for; so I took them up, and served them as we serve notorious thieves in 
England, viz. hanged them in chains for a terror to others. It is impos- 
sible to imagine that this should have such an effect as it had ; for the fowls 
not only never came to th^ com, bjut, in short, they forsook all that part 
of the island, and I could never see a bird near the place as long as my 
scarecn»ws hung there. This I was very glad of, yon may be snre ; and 
about the latter end of December, which was onr second harvest of the 
year, I reaped my com. 

I was sa^y put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it dpwn : and all I 
could do was to make one as well as I could, out of one of the broad-swords 
or cutlasses, which I saved among the arms of the ship. However, as 
my first crop was but small, Ihad.no great difficulty to cut ft tfown : 
in short, I reaped it my way, for I cut nothing off but the ears, and 
carried it away in a great basket which I had made, and so ruU)ed it out 
with my hands; and at the end of all my harvestmg, I found that out 
of my half- peck of seed I had near two bushels of rice, and above two 
bushels and a half of barley; that is to say, by my guess^ for I had no 
measure. 

However, this was great encouragement to me; and I fbresaw tbat in 
time it would please God to supply me with bread; and yet here I was 
perplexed again; for I neither knew how to grind, or make meal of my 
com, or indeed how to clean it and part it; nor if made into meal, how to 
make bread of it ; and if how to make it, yet I knew not how to bake it : 
these things being added to my desire of having a good quantity of store, and 
to secure a constant supply, I resolved not to taste any of this crop, Imt to 
preserve it all for seed against the next season ; and. in the mean time, to 
employ all my stndy and hours of .working to accomplish this great work 
of providing myself with com and bread. 

It might be truly said, that now I worked for my bread. It is a little 
wonderful, and what J believe few people have thouglH much upon, 
viz. the strange multitude of little things necessary in the providing, pro- 
ducing, curing, dressing, making, and finishing this one article of bread. 

I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature, found this to my daUy 
disa)uragement^ and was made nior§ sei|s|ble of i^ every hour, even after 



70 LIftE AND ADVENTlJRfiS 

I had got ttie first handful of seed-corn, which, a$ I have said, cam ip 
unexpectedly, and indeed to my surprise. 

First, I had no plough to turn up the earth ; no .spade or shovel to (% 
it : well^ this I conquered by making a wooden spade, as I observed be- 
fore; but this did iny work hut in a wooden manner; and though it coit 
me a great many days to make it, yet, for want of iron, it not only woi|e 
out the sooner, but made my work the harder, and performed it muQ)i 
worse. However, this I bore with, and was content to work it out with 
patience, and bear with the badness of the performance. When the coi^ 
was sown, I had no harrow, but was forced to go over it myself, and drag 
a great heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch it, as it may be called, 
rather than rake or harrow it. When it was growing and grown, I bav^ 
observe already how many things I wanted to fence it, secure it, mow 
or reap il, cure and carry it hom^, thrash, part it from the chaff, aotfd 
save it : then I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dres^ it, yeast and salt 
to make it into bread, and an oven to bake it; and yet all these things I 
did without, as shall be observed; and the corn was an inestim^le 
Gomfdrt and advantage to me : all this, as I said, made every tiling 
laborious and tedious to me, but that there was no help for; neither was 
my time so much loss to me, because, as I had divided it, a certain part 
of it was every day appointed to these works ; and as I resolved to use 
none of the corn for bread till I had a greater quantity by me, t had the 
next six months to apply myself wholly, by labour and invention, to fur- 
nish myself with utensils^ proper for the performing all the operations ne- 
cesfsary for making corn fit for my use. 

But now I was to prepare more land ; for I had seed enough to sow 
aboVe an acre of ground. Before 1 did this, I had a week's Ivork at lea^t 
to make me a spade; which, when it was done, was but a sorry one indeed, 
and very heavy, and required double labour to work with it : however, 
I went through that, and sowed my seed in two large flat pieces of ground, 
as near my house as I coold find them to my mind, and fenced (hem in 
with a good hedge, the stakes of wbich were all cut orf that wood whic^ 
I had set before, and knew it would grow ; so that in one year's time I 
knew I should have a quick or living hedge, that would want but little 
repair. This work took me up full three months; because a great part of 
thie time was in the wet season, when I could not go abroad. Within 
doors, that is, when it rained, and I could not go out, J. found employ- 
ment oil the following occasions : always observing, that while t was at 
work, I diverted myself with talking to my parrot, and teaching him to 
speak, and I quickly learned him to know his own name, and at last 
to ^eak it out pretty loud, Pol ; which was tlje first word I ever heard 
spoken in the island by any niouth but my own. This therefore was n^ 
my work, but an assistant to my work ; for now as I said, t had a great 
employment upon my hands, as follows : I had long studied, by some 
means or other, to make myself some earthen vessels, which indeed I 
wanted much, but knew not where to come at them : however, con- 
sidering the heat of the climate, I did not doubt but if I could find out 
any clay, I might botch up some such pot as might, being dried in the 
sun, be hard and strong enough to bear handling, and to bold any thing 
tliat was dry, and required to be kept so; and as this was necessary in 



OF ROBINSON CRtJSOE. Tl 

the preparing corn, meal, etc., which was the thing t was upon, t reserved 
to make some as large as I could, and fit only to stand like jars, to hold 
what should be pat into them. 

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me, to tell how 
many awkward ways I took to raise this pastil ; what odd, misshapen, 
ugly things I made ; how many of them fell in, and how many Fell out, 
the clay not being stiff enough to bear its own weight ; how many cracked 
by the over violenl heat of the sun, being set out too hastily ; and how 
many fell in pieces with only removing, as well before as after they were 
dried; and, in a word, hoiv, after labouring hard to find the clay, to dig 
it, to temper it, to bring it home, and work it, I coald not make above two 
large earthen ugly things (I cannot call them jars), in about two moQtli^ 
labour. 

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard,( I lifted there 
very gently up, and set them down again in two great wicker basketSi 
which I had made on purpose for them, that they might not break ; and 
as between the pot and the basket there was a little room to spare, I stuff- 
ed it full of the rice and barley straw ; and these two pots being to stand 
always dry, I thought would hold my dry corn, and perhaps the meal, 
when the corn was bruised. 

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large pots, yet I made 
several smaller things with better success; such as little round pots, flat 
dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, and any thing my hand turned to; and the 
heat of the sun naked them very hard. 

I^ut all this would not answer my end, which was to get an earthen 
hot to hold liquids and bear the fire, which none oJT these could do. It 
happened some time after, making a pf etty large fire for cooking my 
meat, when I went to put it out after I had done with it, I found a broken 
piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the fire, burned as hard as a 
stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeably surprised to see it; and said to 
myself, that certainly ihey might be made to bum whole, if thef would 
burn broken. 

This set me to study how to order my fire so as to make it bum som^ 
pots. I had no notion of a kiln, such as the potters burn in, or of glazing 
them with lead, though I had some lead to do it with; but I placed three 
large pipkins and two or three pots in a pile, one upon another, and placed 
fire-wood all round it with a great heap of embers under them. I plied 
the fire with fresh fuel round the outside, and upon the top, till I saw the 
pots in the inside red hot quite through, and observed that they did not 
crack at all : when I saw them clear red, I let them stand in that heat 
about five or six hours, till I found one of them, though it did not cracky 
did melt or run; for the sand which was mixed with the clay melted by 
the violence of the heat, and would have run into glass, if I had gone on; 
so I slacked my fire gradually, till the pots began to abate of the redeolottr> 
and watching them all night that I might not let the fire abate too fast, iti 
the morning I had three very good, I will not say handsome pipkins, and 
two other earthen pots, as hard burnt as could be desu*ed; and one el 
them perfectly glazed with the running of the sand. 

After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted no sort of earthen- 
ware for my use ; but I must needs say, as to the shapes of them, they 



12 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

were very indifferent, as any one may suppose, as I Iiad no way of mak- 
ing them but as the children make dirt pies, or as a woman would make 
pios that never learned to raise paste. 

No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever eqnal to mine, when I 
fennd I had made an earthen pot that would bear the fire; and I had 
hardly patience to stay till they were cold before I set one on the fire 
again, with some water in it to boil me some meat, which it did admirably 
well ; and with a piece of a kid I made some very good broth, though I 
wanted oatmeal, and several other ingredients requisite to make it so 
good as I would have had it been. 

My next concern was to get a stone mortar to stamp or beat some corn 
in; for as to the mill, there was no thought of arriving to that perfection 
of art with one pair of hands. To supply this want I was at a gre^t loss ; 
for, of all trades in the world, I was as perfectly unqualified for a stone 
cutter, as for any whatever; neither had I any tools to go about it with. 
I spent many a day to find out a great stone big enough to cut hollow, and 
make fit for a mortar; but could find none at all, except what was in the 
solid rock, and which I had no way to dig or cut out : nor indeed were 
the rocks in the island of sufficient hardness, as they were all of a sandy 
crumbling stone, which would neither bear the weight of a heavy pestle 
nor would forf ak the corn without filling it with sand : so, after a great 
deal of time lost in searching for a stone, I gave it over, and resolved to 
look out a great block of hard wood, which I found indeed much easier; 
and getting one as big as I had strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed 
it on the outside with my axe and hatchet; and then, with the help of fire, 
and infinite labour, made a hollow place in it, as the Indians in Brazil 
make their canoes. After this, I made a great heavy pestle, or beater, of 
the wood called iron- wood; and this I prepared and laid by against I bad 
my next crop of com, when I proposed to myself to grind, or rather pound 
my com into meal, te make my bread. 

My next difficulty was to make a sieve or scarce, to dress my meal, and 
to part it from the bran and the husk, without which I did not see it pos- 
sible I could have any bread. This was a most difficult thing, even but 
to think on; for I had nothing like the necessary thing to make it; I mean 
fine thin canvas or stuff to scarce the meal through. Here I was at 
a full stop for many months ; nor did I really know what to do; linen 
I had none left, but what was mere rags ; Ihad goats' hair, but neither knew 
how to weave it nor spin it ; and had I known bow, here were no tools 
to work it with : all the remedy I found for this was, at last recollecting 
I had among the seamen's clothes which were saved out of the ship, some 
neckcloths of calico or muslin, with some pieces of these I made three 
small sieves, proper enough for the work ; and thus I made shift for some 
years : how I did afterwards I shall show in its place. 

The baking part was the next thing to be considered, and how I should 
make bread when I came to have com : for, first, I had no yeast; as to 
that part there was no supplying the want, so I did not concern myself 
much about it ; but for an oven I was indeed puzzled. At length I found ' 
oat an expedient for that also, which was this ; I made some earthen ves- 
sels, very broad, but not deep, that is to say, about two feet diameter, and 
not above nine inches deep : these I bunted in the fire^ as I had done the 



OF ROBmSON CRUSOE. 75 

Other, and laid them by ; and when I wanted to bake, I made a great fire 
upon my hearth, which I had paved with some square tiles, of my own 
making and burning also ; but I should not call them square. 

When the fire-wood was burned into embers, or live coals, I drew them 
forward upon the hearth, so as to cover it all over, and there let them lie 
till the hearth was very liot; then sweeping away all the embers, I set 
down my loaf, olr loaves, and covering them with the earthen pot, drew 
the embers all round the outside tit the pot, to keep in and add to the 
heat ; and thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my barley 
loaves, and became, in a little time, a good pastry-cook mto the bargain ; 
for I made myself several cakes and puddings of the rice; but made no 
pies, as I had nothing to put into them except the flesh of fowls or goats. 

It need not be wond^ed at, if all these things took me up most pat t of 
the third yearofmy abode here; for, it is to be observed, in the intervals of 
these tilings, I had my new harvest and husbandry .to manage : I reaped 
my corn in its season, and carried it home as well as I could, and laid it 
up in the ear, in my large baskets, till I had time to rub it out; for I had 
no floor tor thrash it on, or instrument to thrash it with. 

And now, indeed, my stock of com increasing, I really wanted to build 
my barns bigger : I wanted a place to lay it up in; for the increase of the 
com now yielded me so much, that I had of the barley about twenty 
bushels, and of rice as much, or more, insomuch that now I resolved to 
begin to use it freely ; for my bread had been quite gone a great while : 
I resolved also to see what quantity would be sufficient for me a whole 
year, and to sow but once a year. 

Upon the whole, I found that the forty hotels of barley and rice were 
much more than I coirid consume in a year ; so I resolved to sow just the 
same quantity every year that I sowed tlie last, in hopes that such a 
quantity would fully provide me with bread, etc. 

All the while these things were doing, you may be sure my thoughts 
ran many times upon the prospect of land which I had seen from the other 
side of the island; and I was not without some secret wishes that I was on 
shore there ; fancying, that seeing the main land, and aainhabited country, 
I might find some way or other to convey myself farther, and perhaps at 
last find some means of escape. 

But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers of such a coq- 
dition, and that I might fall into the hands of savages, and perhaps such 
as I might have reason to think far woise than the lions and tigers of 
Africa; that if I once came in their power, I should run a hazard of more 
than a thousand to one of being killed, and perhaps of being eaten ; for 
I had heard that the people of the Caribbean coast were cannibals, or 
man-eaters, and I knew, by the latitude, that I couM not be fer off from 
that shore. Then supposing they were not cannibals, yet that they might 
kill me, as they had many Europeans who had fallen into their hands, 
even when they have been ten or twenty together; much more I, who was 
but one, and could make little or no defence ; all these things,! say, which 
I ought to have considered well of, and did cast op in my thoughts after- 
wards, took up none of my apprehensions at first ; yet my head ran might- 
ily upon the thought of getting over to the shore. 

Now I wi9bed for my boy Xury, and the long-boat with the shoulder-of 



t4 LIFE AiO) ADVENTORES 

itautton sail, with which I sailed above a thousand miles on the coast ot 
Africa ; bat this was in vain : then I thought I would go and look at our 
ship's boat, which, as I have said, was blown up on the shore a great 
tray, in the storm, when we were first cast away. She lay nearly where 
she did at first, but not quite ; having turned, hy the force of the waves 
and the winds, almost bottom upward, against a liigh ridge of b^chy 
rough sahd; but ilo water about her, asrbefore. If I had had hands to 
have refitted htr, and to have launched her into the water, the boat would 
have done very well, and I mi<^ht have gone back to Ihe Brazils with 
her easily enough ; but I might hate foreseen, that I codld no more tuni 
her and set her upright u])on her bottom, than I could remove the island) 
however, I went to the woods, and cut levers and rollers, and brought 
them to the boat, resolving to try what t could do; suggesting to myself, 
tliat if I could biit turn her down, and repair the damages she had recei- 
ved, she would be a very good boat, and I might venture to sea in her. 

I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless toil, and spent, t 
think, three or four weeks about it : at last, finding it impossible to heave 
her up with my little strength, I fell to digging away the sand, to un- 
dermine her, and so as to make her fall down, setting pieces of wood to 
thrust and guide her right in the fall. 

But when t had done this, I was unable to stir her up again, or get un- 
der her, much less to move her forward towards the water : so 1 was 
forced to give it over : and yet, though I gave over the hopes of the boat, 
my desire to venture over the main increased, rather than diminished, as 
the means for it seemed impossible. 

At length, t began to think whether it was not possible to make myself 
a canoe, or periagua, such as the natives of those climates make, eved 
without tools, or, as t might say, without hands, of the tnink of a great 
tree. This J not only thought possible, but easy, and pleased myself ex- 
tremely with the idea of making it, and with my having much more 
convenience for it than any of the Negroes or Indians ; but not at all consi- 
dering the particular inconveniences which I lay under more than the 
Indians did, viz. the want of hands to move it into the water when it was 
made, a difficulty much harder for me to surmount than all the conse- 
quences of want of tools could be to them : for what could it avail me, 
if, after I had chosen my tree, and with much trouble cut it down, and 
might be able with my tools to hew and dub the outside into the proper 
shape of a boat, and bum or cut out the inside to make it hollow, so as to 
make a boat of it ; if, after all this, I must leave it just where I found it, 
and was not able to launch it into the water. 

One would imagine, if I had had the least reflection upon my mind ot 
my circumstances while I was making this boat, Ishould have immediately 
thought how I was to get it into the sea : but my thoughts were so intent 
upon my voyage in it that I never once considered how I should get it 
off the land ; and it was really, in its own nature, more easy for me to 
guide it over forty-five miles of sea, than the forty-five fathoms of land, 
where it lay, to set it afloat in the water. 

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever man did, 
who had any of his senses awake. I pleased myself with the design, 
without determining whether I was able to undertake it ; not but that the 



OF nOBINSON CRUSOE. 75 

ilifficnity of launching my boat came offen into my bead ; bat I pnt a stop 
to my o^n inqairies into it, by lliis foolish answer : Let me first make it ; 
t warrant t will find some way or other to get it along when it is 
done. 

This was a most preposterous method ; but the eagerness of my fancy 
|>revailed, and to work I went. I felled a cedar tree, and I question 
much whether Solomon ever had such a one for the building of the Tem- 
ple of Jetusalem ; it was five feet ten inches diameter at the lower part 
next the stomp, and four feet eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty- 
two feet, where it lessened, and then parted into branches. It was not 
without infinite labour that I felled this tree : I was twenty days hacking 
at the bottom, and fourteen more getting the branches and limbs, and the 
vast spreaditig head of it, cutoff: after this, it cost me a month to shape 
it and dob it to a proportion, and to something like the bottom of a boat, 
that it might swim upright as it ought to do. It cost me near three 
months more to clear the inside, and work it out so as to make an exact 
jboat of it : this t did, indeed, Without fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and 
by the dint of hard labour, till I had brought it to be a very handsome 
periagua, and big enough to have carried six and twenty men, and conse- 
qoelitly big enough to have carried me and all my cargo. 

When I had gone through this work, I was extremely delighted with 
h. The boat was really much bigger than ever I saw a canoe or periagua, 
that was made of one tree, in my life. Many a weary stroke it had cost, 
yon may be sure; and there remained nothing but to get it into the water; 
which, had I accomplished, I make no question but I should have begun 
the maddest voyage, and the most unlikely to be performed, that ever was 
undertaken. 

Bat all my devices to get it into the water Failed me ; though they cost 
me inexpressible labour too. It lay about one hundred yards from the 
water, and not more ; but the first inconvenience was, it was up hill 
towards the creek. Well, to take away this discouragement, I resolved 
to dig into the surface of the earth, and so make a declivity : this I begun, 
and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains ; (but who grudge pains that have 
their deliverance in view ?) when this was worked through, and this dif- 
ficulty managed^ it was still much the same, for t could no more stir the 
Canoe than t cOuId the other boat. Then I measured the distance of 
jground, and resolved to put a dock or canal, to bring the water up to th^ 
jBanoe, seeing I could not bring the canoe down to the water. Well, I 
began this work ; and when I began to enter upon it, and calculate how 
deep it was to be dug, how broad, how the stuff was to be thrown out, 
I found by the number of hands I had, having none but my own, that it 
inust have been ten or twelve years before I could have gone through 
With it; for the shore lay so high, tliat at the upper end it must have been 
at least twenty feet deep; this attempt, though with great reluctancy, I 
was at length obliged to give over also. 

This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though too late, the folly of 
beginning a work before we count tlie cost, and before we judge rightly 
of our own strength to go through with it. 

In the middle of this work, I finished my fourth year in this place, and 
kept my anniversary with the same devotion, and with as much comfort 



76 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

as before; for, by a constant study and sericms application to the word of 
God, and by the assistance of bis grace, I gained a different knowledge 
from what I had before; I enierlained different notions of things; I looked 
now upon the world as a thing remote, which I had nothing to do with, 
no expectation from, and, indeed, no desires about : in a word, I had 
nothing to do with it, nor was ever likely to have ; I thought it looked, a» 
we may perhaps look upon it hereafter, viz. as a place I had lived in, but 
was come out of it; and well might I say, as father Abraham to Dives, 
** Between me and thee is a great gulf fixed. '' 

In the first place, I was here removed from all the wickedness of the 
world ; I had neither the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, nor the 
pride of life. I had nothing to covet, for I had all that I was now capable 
of enjoying : I was lord of the whole manor ; or, if I pleased, I niij^iit call 
myself king or emperor over the whole country which I had possession 
of; there were no rivals; I had no competitor, none to dispute sovereignty 
or command with me : I might have raised ship loadings of com, but I 
had no use for it; so I let as little grow as I thought enough for my oc- 
casion. I had tortoise or turtle enough, but now and then one was as 
much as I could put to any use; I had timber enough to have built a fleet 
of ships; and I biad grapes enough to have made wine, or to have cured 
into raisins, to have loaded that fleet when it had been built. 

But all I could make use of was all that was valuable : I had enough to 
eat and supply my wants, and what was the rest to me ? If I killed more 
flesh than I could eat, the dog must eat it, or vermin ; if I sowed more com 
than I could eat, it must be spoiled ; the trees that I cut down. were lying 
to rot on the ground ; I could make no nrare use of them than for fuel, 
and that I had no other occasion for but to dress n^y food. 

In a word, the nature and experience of things dictated to me, upon 
just reflection, that all the good things of this world are of no farther good 
to us than for our use; and that whatever we may heap up to give to 
others, we enjoy only as much as we can use, and no more. The most 
covetous griping miser in tlie world would have been cured of the vice of 
covetousness, if he had been in my case; for I possessed infinitely more 
than I knew what to do with. I had no room for desire, except it was 
for things which I had not, and they were comparatively but trifles, 
though indeed of great use to me. I had, as I hinted before, a parcel of 
money, as well gold as silver, about thirty-six pounds sterling. Alas ! 
there the nasty, sorry, useless stuff lay; I had no manner of business for 
it; and I often thought within myself, that I would have given a handful 
of it for a gross of tobacco pipes, or for a handmill to grind my corn ; nay, 
I would have given it all for sixpenny worth of turnip and carrot seed from 
England, or for a handful of peas and beans, and a bottle of ink. As it 
was, I had not the least advantage by it, or benefit from it; but there it 
lay in a drawer and grew mouldy with the damp of the cave in the wet 
seasons ; and if I had had the drawer full of diamonds, it had been the 
same case — they had been of no manner of value to me because of no use. 

I had now brought my state of life to be much more comfortable in 
itself than it was at first, and much easier to my mind, as well as to my 
))ody. I frequently sat down to meat with thankfulness, and admired 
^he hand of God's providence, which bad thus spread my table in the 



J 



6r ROBINSON CltlUSOt. 7i 

wilderness : I learned to look more opon the bright side of my condition, 
and less upon the dark side, and to consider what I enjoyed rather than 
what I wanted : and this gave me sometimes soch secret comforts that I 
cannot express them; and wliich I take notice of here, to put those dis- 
contented people in mind of it, who cannot enjoy comfortably what God 
has gifven them, beeaase they see and covet something that he has not 
^iven them. All onr discontents about what we want appeared to me to 
spring from the want of thankfahiess for what we have. 

Another reflection was of great use to ne, and doubtless would be so to 
any one that should fell into such distress as mine was; and this was, to 
compare my present condition with what I at first expected it would be; 
nay, with whiat it would certainly have been, if the gpod providence of 
God had not wonderfully ordered the ship to be cast np near to the shore, 
where I not only could come at her, but could bring what I got out of her 
to the shore, for my relief and comfiurt; without which, I had wanted Ibr 
tools to work, weapons for defence, and gtmpowder and shot Ibr getting 
my food. 

I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in representing to myself, 
in the most lively colours, how I most have acted if I had got nothing out 
of the ship. I could not have so much as got any food, except fish and 
turtles; and that, as it was long before I found any of them, I must have 
perished ; that I should have lived, if I had not perished, like a mere sa- 
vage; that if I had killed a goat or a fowl, by any contrivance, I had no 
way to flay or open it^ or part the flesh from the skin and the bowels, or 
to cut it up; but must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it with my claws, 
like a beast. 

These reflections made me very sensible of the goodness of Providence 
to me, and very thankfol for my present condition, with all its hardships 
and misfortunes : and this part also I cannot but recommend to the reflec- 
tion of those who are apt, in their misery, to say, Is any affliction like 
mine? Let them consider how much worse the cases of some people are, 
and their case might have been, if Providence liad thought fit. 

I had another reflection, which assisted me also to comfort my mind 
with hopes : and this was comparing my present condition with what I 
had deserved, and had Uierefore reason to expect from the hand of Provi- 
dence. I had lived a dreadful life, perfectly destitute of the knowledge 
and fear of God. I had been well instructed by my father and mother; 
neither had they been wanting to me, in their endeavours to infuse an 
early religions awe of God into my ndnd, a sense of my duty, and what 
the nature and end of my being required of me. But, alas! fiilling early 
into the seafaring life, which, of all lives, is the most destitute of the fear 
of God, though his terrors are always before them ; I say, flailing early 
into the seafei^ life, and into seafaring company, aU that little sense of 
religion which I had entertained was4aughed out of me by my messmates; 
by a hardened despising of dangers, and the views of death, which grew 
habitual to me ; by my long absence from all manner of opportunities to 
converse with any thuig but what was like myself, or to hear any thing 
tliat was good, or tending towards it. 

So void was I of every thing that was good, or of the lea^t sense of 
what I was, or was to be, that in the greatest deliverances I enjoyed 



7& t\tl% Am AI>ySMTUR£$ 

(sach as niy esiiape from Sallee, my being taken op by the Portn^nefle 
master of a sliip, my bein^ planted so well in the Brazils, my receiving 
the cargo from England, and the like), I never had once the words^ 
Thank God, so much as on tny mind, or in my mouth; nor in the ^eatest 
distress had I so much as a thought to pray to him^ or sp much as to say^ 
Lord, have mercy upon me ! no, nor to 'mention the name of God, unless 
it was to swear by, and blaspheme it. . 

I had terrible reflections iyK)n my mind for many months, as I have 
already observed, on account of my wicked and hardened life past^ and 
when riooked about me, and considered what particular providences had 
attended me since my coming into this place, and how God had de^U 
bountifully with me,--had not only punished me less than my iniquity 
had deserved, but had so plentifully provided for me,^lhis ^ave megrea(» 
Hopes that my repentance was accepted, and that God had yet merely io. 
s^e for me. 

With these reflections, I worked my jnind tip, not only to a resignation 
to the will of God in the present disposition of my circumstances, but evea 
to a suicere thankfulness for my condition; and that I, who was yet a 
Uvuig man, ought not to complain, seeing I had not the due ponisbment 
of my sins ; that I enjoyed so many mercies which I bad no reason to 
have expected in that place, that I ought never more to repine at my 
condition, but to rejoice, and to give daily thanks for that daily breadi, 
which nothing but a cloud of wonders could have brought; that I ought 
to consider I had been fed by a miracle, even as great as that of fe^dhig 
;^ijah by ravens ; nay, by a long series of miracles : and that I CQUld 
hardly have named a place in the uninhabited part of the world where 
I could have been cast more to my advantage; a place where, as I bad.no 
society, which was my affliction oh one hand, so I found^ no ravenous 
beasts, no furious woKes or tigers, to tiiireaten my life; no venomous or 
poisonous creatures which I might feed on to my hurt; no savages to 
niurder and devour me. In a word, as my life was a life of sorrow one 
way, so it was a life of mercy another; and I wanted nothing to make it 
a life of comfort, hut to make myself sensible of God's goodness to me, 
9nd care oyer me in this condition; and after I did make a just improve 
inent of these things, I went away, and was no more sad. 

i had now been here so long that many things which I brought on shor^ 
for my help were either q^ite gone, or very much wasted, and near spent. 

My ink, as I observed, liad been gone for some time, all but a very lit- 
tle, which t eked out with water, a little and a little, UU it was so pale it 
scarce left any appearance of black upon the paper. As long as it lasted, 
t made use of it to minute down the days of the month on which any re* 
markable thing happened to me : and, first, by casting up times past, I 
remember that there was a strange concurrence of days in the various pro- 
vidences which befell me, and which, if I had been superstiiiously inclined 
to observe days as fatal or fortunate, I might have had reason to have 
looked upon with a great deal of curiosity. 

First, I had observed, that the same day that I broke away from my 
fether and my friends, and ran away to Hull, in order to go to $ea, th^ 
same day afterwards I was taken by the Sallee man pf war, md made a 
^lave : the same day of th^ year that I escaped out of the wrepk of the 



OF ROBDISON GEUSO& 90 

ship in Yarmouth Roads, that same day-year afterwards I made my escape 
from Sallee In the boai| and the same day of the year I was bom on, viz. 
the 50th of September, that same day I had my life so miracaleosly saved 
twenty 'MX years after, when I was cast on shore in this island : so that 
my wicked life aQ4 my solitary life bei^an both on ope day. 

The next thing to my ink being wasted, was that of my bread, I mean 
the biscait which I brought out of the ship : this I had husbanded to the 
last degree, allowing myseU but 'one cake of bread a day for above a year; 
and yet I was quite without brea^ for near a year before I got any com 
Qf my own ; and great reason I had to be thankful that I had any at aU, the 
getting it being, as has been already observed, next to miraonlous. 

My clothes, too, began to deeay mightily : as to linen, I had nmie isr t 
great while, except some chequered shirts which I found im the chesta of 
the other seamen, and which I carefully preserved, beeause many times 
I could bear no clothes on but a shirt ; and it was a very great help to me 
that I had, among all the men's ck»tW of the ship, almost three dozen of 
shirts. There were also, indeed, several thick wateh-coats of the sea- 
men's which were left, but they were too hot to wear : and though it is 
true that the weather was so violently hot that there was no need of 
clothes, yet J could not go quite naked, no, though I had been inclined to 
it, which I was not, nor could I abide the thought of it, though I was all 
alone. The reason why I ooukl not go quite nikeA was, I could not bear 
the heat of the sun so well when quite naked as wiith some clothes on; 
nay, the very heat freqaently blistered my skin : whereas, with a shhrt on, 
the air itself made some motion, and whistling under the shirt, was two- 
fold cooler than witbopt it. No more could I ever bring myself to go out 
in the hcAt of the sun without a cap or hat; tho heat of the sun beating 
with such violence as it does in that pkce, would give ae the heBd*aeha 
presently, by darting so directly upon my head, withont a cap or hat on, 
so that I could not bear it^ whereas, if I pu ton my hat, it wopld present- 
ly go away. 

Upon these views, I b^an to oonaidec about putting the few rags I had, 
which I called clothes, into some order : I had worn out all the waistooaats 
I had, and my business was now to try if I could not make jackets out of 
the great watch-coats that I had by me, and with such other materials as 
I had; se I set to work a tailoring, or rather, indeed*, a botching, for I 
made most piteous work of it. However, I made shift to make two or 
three new waistcoats, whkh I hoped would serve me a great wliile : u 
for breeches or drawers, I made but a very sorry shift indeed till after* 
wards. 

I have mentioned, that I saved the skins of all the creatnres that I kill- 
ed, I mean four-footed ones ; and I had hung them up, stretched out wiHi 
sticks, in the sun, by which means some of them were so dry and hard 
that they were fit for little, hut others I found very useful. The first 
thing I made of these was a great cap for my head, with the hair on the 
outside, to shoot off the rain; and this I performed so well, that after this 
) made me a suit of clothes wholly oi the skins, that is to say, a waistcoat, 
and breeches open to the knees, and both loose; for they were rather 
wanting to keep me cool than warm. I must not omit to acknowledge 
that they were wretchedly made; for if I was a bad eaipenter^ I wasa 



^ Wk AMD ABVENTUltSS 

worse tailor. However, they were sach as I made very good shift with $ 
and when I was abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat 
and cap being uppermost, I wa6 kept very dry. 

After this I spent a great deal of time and paind to make an umbrella : 
I was indeed in great want of one, and had a great mind to make one ; I 
had seen them made in the Brazils, where they were very oseful in the 
great heats which are there ; and I felt the heats every jot as great here, 
and greater too, being nearer the eqainox : besides, as I was obliged to be 
much abroad, it was a most useful thing to me, as well for the rains as the 
heats. I took a world di pains at it, and was a great while before I could 
make any thing likely to hold; nay, sffter I thought I had hit the way, I 
^iled two or three before I made one to my mind; but at last I made 
one that answered indifferently well; the main difficulty I found was to 
make it to let dowii': I could make it spread, but if it did not let down 
too, and draw in, it was not portable for me any way but just over my 
head, wliieh would not do. However, at last, as I said, I made one to 
answer, and covered it with skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast off 
the rain like a pent-house, and kept off the sun so effectually that I could 
walk out in the hottest of the weather with greater advantage than I could 
before in the coolest ; and when I had no need of it, could close it, and 
carry it under my arm. 

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely composed by 
resigning to the will of God, and throwing myself wholly upon the dispo- 
sal of his providence. This made my life better than sociable ; for when 
I began to regret the want of conversation, I would ask myself, whether 
thus conversing mutually with my own thoughts, and, as I hope I may 
say, with even God himself, by ejaculations, was not better than tlie utmost 
enjoyment of human society in the world? 

I cannot say that after this, for five years, any extraordinary thing hap- 
pened Ip me, bntllivedon in the same course, in the same posture and place, 
just as before ; the chief tilings I was employed in, besides my yearly labour 
of planting my barley and rice, and curing my raisins, of both which I al- 
ways kept up just enough to have sufficient stock of one year's provision be- 
forehand ; I say, besides this yeariy labour, and my daily pursuit of going out 
with my gun, I had one labour, to make mea canoe, which at lastl finished : 
so that by digging a canal to it of six feet wide, and four feet deep, I brought 
it into the creek, almost half a mile. As for the first, which was so vastly 
big, as I made it without considering beforehand, as I ought to do, how I 
should be able to launch it, so, never being able to bring it into the water, 
or bring the water to it, I was obliged to let it lie where it was, as a me- 
morandum to teach me to be wiser the next time :. indeed, the next time, 
though I could not get a tree proper for it, and was in a place where I could 
not get the water to it at any less distance than, as I have said, near half 
a mile, yet as I saw it was practicable at last, I never gaye it over : and 
though I was near two years about it, yet I never, grudged my labour, 
in hopes of having a boat to go off to sea at last. 

However, though my little periagua was finished, yet the size of it was 
not at all answerable to the design which I had in view when I made the 
first ; I mean of venturing over to the terra firma, where it was above forty 
miles broad ; accordingly, the smaliness of my boat assisted to put an end 



OF ROBINSON CEOSOE. «f 

10 that dengfty and now I thooght no more of it • As I had a boat, ny 
next design was to make a cruise round the island; for as I had been on 
the other side in one place, crossing, as I have ahready described it, over 
the Und, so the discoveries I made in that little joomey made me very 
eager to see other parts of the eoast; and now I had a boat, I tboogfat of 
notlking but sailing round the island. 

For this purpose, that I might do every fhuig vrith discretion and con- 
dderaiion, I fitted up a little mast m ray boat, and made a saU to it ont of 
some of the pieces of the ship's sails which lay ui store, and of whidi I 
had a great stock by me. Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the 
boat, I found she would sail very well : then I madelittle lockers, or boxes 
at each end of my boat, to put provisions, necessaries, ammnnitioD, etc.* 
into, to be kept dry, either from rain or the spray of the sea; and a little^ 
long, hollow place I cut m the mside of the boat, where I could lay my 
gun, making a flap to hang down over it, to keep it dry. 

I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stem, like a mast, to stand 
over my head, and keep the heat of the sun off me« like an awnmg; and 
thus I every now and then took a little voyage upon the sea : but never 
went far out, nor far from the little credi. At last, being eager to view 
the circumference of my little kingdom, I resolved upon my cruise; and 
accordingly I victualled my ship for the voyage, putting in two dozen of 
loaves (cakes I should rather call them) of barley bread, an earthen pot 
full of parched rice (a food I ate a great deal of), a little bottle of mm, 
half a goat, and powder and shot for killing more, and two large watch* 
coats, of those which, as I mentioned before^ I had saved out of the sea- 
men's chests; these I took, one to lie upon, and the other to cover me in 
the night. 

It was the.fith of November, in the sixth year of my reign, or my cap- 
tivity, which yqu please, that I set out on this voyage, and I found it 
much longer than I expected; for though the island itself was not very 
large, yet when I came to the east side of it, I foond a great ledgeof rocks 
lie out about two leagues into the sea, some above water, some under it; 
and beyond that a shoal of sand, lying dry half a league more, so that I 
was obliged to go a great way out to sea to double the point. 

When first I discovered them, I was going to give over my enterprise, 
and come back again, not knowing how far it might oblige me to go oot 
to sea, and, above all, doubting how I should get back agam ; so I came 
to an anchor; for I had made me a kind of an anchor witli a piece of a 
broken grappliiog which I got out of the ship. 

Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on shore, climbing 
np on a hill, which seemed to overlook that point, where I saw the full 
extent of it, and resolved to venture. 

In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, I perceived a strong, 
and indeed a most furious current, which ran to the east, and even came 
close to the point ; and I took the more notice of it, because I saw there 
might be some danger, that when I came into it, I might be carried out 
to sea by the strength of it, and not he able to make the island again : and, 
indeed, had I not got first upon this hill, I believe it would have been so ; 
for there was the same current on the other side the island, only that it 
set off at a farther distance, and I saw there was a strong eddy under the 

6 



JJR AUD ADTENItniES 



ifam»} «b 1 faAd oft^thing tocb but to get om «f Jtilie flest cttRWt, a&d 1 
ibonld ptalflftly he1» «b iMj. 

I lay bett, fawclov, Iwo^obiyi, liecsnse liie wkicl blowing jpretty ireA 
|ii£. fi. E. and thaftlieQig ji«tooH6ravy to the saidovrreiit, nadeagrttit 
Jbrett^ «f th^ aea.iip«i the |Miiit$iiD tlnikinsis notsaf^ f&t me to betp too 
dose to the shore for the breach, nor to go too Air off teeaiue (oi tibe 
^rtroanu 

The third day, in the aoniiiig, the wind haring ahated ovtr-nlght, the 
1MB was calm, <and I ventured: batlama waming-pieoeagaiA to all rarti 
and ignorantpflbls; to no sooner wasi come to the pohit, when I was 
■BterenmyiKMit^leagitlift-oiA the shore, hut I fenndmyselfiBa great 
'depth of walcr^ and a ewrenit like the sluiee of a mill ; it carrkd my boat 
;rioiigwiliiitwitkliidivic4encethatidllooalddoconld not keep her so 
nmoh as on th<^ edge of it; but I foimd it hok-ried me ferther and farther 
oat from the eddy> whieh was on my left hand* There was no wind 
itkving to hnlp me, and all I conid do with my paddles sigmfied nothing : 
and now I began togire myMlf ovet forlost^ toAstbeaiHTent wason 
both sides of the ialand, I knew in a fsw leagues distance they must join 
Again, and theii I traa kroooverafaly gone; nor did I see^ny possOi^ility ef 
avoiding ii ; so tfaijt I had no pi?aepect before me bnt of perishing, not by 
Ihe sea, for that tiras oa|m enongh, hot of starv^ fdr hanger, I had in- 
deed found a torioiafr on the shore, as big almost as I could llft,andhad 
toaiedit into the boat; and I bad a great Jar of fkiesh water, that is lo say, 
-one of my earthen pots; bnt what was all dils to being driven kilo the 
vast ocean, whore^ to be sore, there was no store, no main land or island, 
for a thousand leagues at least ? 

And now I saw how easy it was for the providence of God to nuAie even 
^ most miserable eondition of mankind worse. Now I kraked back i^n 
my desolate, soUtwy island, as the most p]«3isant place in the world; and 
|A1 the hapj^ess my Jieart coald wish for was to be but there ag»n. I 
otreU^ied out my hands lo it, with eager wishes ; '^ O happy desert I " said 
i, ^^ I shall nev^ see &ee more. O mfeerable creatnre ! whither am I 
f^g ! " Then I r^roaehed myself with my onthankfal temper, and 
how I had repined at my solitary ccmdition ; and now what would I give 
in be on shore there again ! Thut we iiever see the true stale of our Con- 
xion till it is UhuU^ted t<^ as by its contraries, nor know how to vaioe 
what we enjoy, bat by the want of it It is scarce p()ssible to imagme the 
constematkm I was'now in, bemg driven from my bfeloted island (for so 
it appeared to me now to be) into the wide ocean, almost tWO leagues, 
mid in the otmost despair of ever recovering it again. However, I woit^ 
bard, titt indeed my strei^ was almost exhausted, and kept my boat as 
much to the northward, that is, towards the side of the current which the 
eddy lay en, as possibly I could ; when about noon, as the sun passed the 
meridian, 1 thought I felt a littte breeze of wind in my fkce, sprii^mg up 
from S. S. E. This cheered my heart a little, and especially when, in 
about half an hour more, it blew a pretty gentle gale. By this time I 
was got at a frightfiil distance from the island, and had the least cloudy 
or hazy weather intervened, I had been undone another way too^ for I 
bad no compass on board, and should never have known how to have steered 
towards the i^nd^ if J had bnt once lost sight of it ; but the weather con- 



jOF fomsm causM. u 

tfaming dear, I applied myself to get up my mast again^' and spread n^ tail, 
standing away to tbe north as mueh as possQile, to get oat of the eorrent. 

Just as I had set my masland sail, and the boat began to stretch away, 
I saw even by the clearness of the water «ome alteradon of the carrent was 
near; for where the cnrrent was so strong, the water was fonl ; but per^ 
oeiving (he water clear, I fomid the cnrrent abate ; and presently I foohd to 
the east, at aboat half amile, abreaeh of the sea apon some rocks : these rocks 
I foand caused the carrent to part again, and as the main stress of it ran 
away more soatheily, leaving the rocks to the north-^ast, sothe other re- 
tarnedby the repnlse of the rocks, and made a strong eddy, which ran 
bock again to the north-west, with a very sharp stream. 

They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to them upon die 
ladder, or to be rescued fronr thieves just going tomarder them, or who 
have iMsen m suchlike extremities, may guess what my present surprise of 
joy was, and bow gladly I put my boat mto the stream of this eddy; and 
the wind also freshening, how gladly I spread my sail to it, running cheer- 
fblJly before the wind, and with a strong tide or eddy under foot. 

This eddy carried me about a league in my way back again, directly to- 
tmds the island, but about two leagues more to the northward than the 
eunrent which carried me away at first : so that when I came near the 
island, I found myself open to the northern shore of it, that is to say, the 
aiher end of the island, opposite to that which I went out fhm. 

When I had made something more than a league of way by thehdp 
41 this curvent or eddy, I found it was spent, and served me nb ftirtber. 
fioweter, I found that being between two great currenu, viz. that on the 
aooth side, which had hurried me away, and that on the north, whidi lay 
•boot a leagueon the other side ; I say between these two, in the wake of 
the island, I found the water at least still, and running no way^ and 
having still a breeae of wind foir for me, I kept on steering directly for the 
Island, though not making such fresh way as I did before. 

About four o'ck)ck in the evening, being then within a league of the 
Uand, I found the point of the rocks which occasioiied th^ disaster, 
•tretchiiig out, as is described before, to the southward, and casting off the 
current more southerly, had, of course, made another eddy to the north; 
and this I found very strong, but not directly settafig the way my course 
lay, which was doc west, but almost full north. However, having a fresh 
faie, I stretched acrosa this eddy, slantfaig north-west ^ and, in about an 
ioer, came within about a mile of tbe ^ore, where, it being smooth wa- 
tsr, i $pon got to land. 

When I was ea shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God thanks for my 
dfdiverance, resohrhig to lay aside all thoughts of my deliverance by my 
boat ; and refreshing myself widi such things as I had, Ibrought my boat 
dose to the diore, in a little cove that I had spied under sdme trees, and 
laid me down to sleep, being qwte spent with the labour and fatigue of 
die voyage. 

I was now at a great loss which way to get home with my boat ; I had 
Mn so much hazara, and knew too much of the case, to think of attempt^ 
Ing it by tlie way I went out ; and what might be at the other side (I mean 
the west ode) I knew not, nor had I any mind to run any more ventures ; 
m I only i^solved in the morning to make my way westward along tN 



84 UFt 4KD ia>V£NTUAES 

short J mi to aee if there wag no 6reek where I might lay up my frigate 
in safety, so as to have her ^ain, if I wanted her. In ahont three miles, 
or thef^iboaLs, coasting the shore, I came to a very good inlet or bay, 
about a mile over, which narrowed till it came to a very little riyulet or 
brook, where I ft)und a very convenient harbour for my boat, and where 
she lay as if she liad been in a little dock made oh purpose for her. Here 
I put in, and having stowed my boat very safe, I went' on shore, to look 
about me, and see where I was. 

I soon found I had but a little passed by the place where I had been 
before, when I travelled on foot to that shore; so taking nothing out of my 
boat but my gun and umbrella, for it was exceeding hot, I began my 
march. The way was comfortable enough after such a voyage as I had 
been upon, and I reached my old bower in the evening, where I found 
every thing standing as I left it; for I always kept in it good order, being, 
as I said before, my country house. 

I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade to rest my limbs ; 
far I was very weary, and fell asleep; but judge you, if yon can, that read 
my story, what a surprise I must be in, when I was awaked out of my 
sleep by a voice, calling me by my name several times, '^ Robm, Robin, 
Rohm Crusoe; poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you, Robin Crusoe? 
Where are you ? Where have you been ? " 

I was so dead asleep at first, being fetigued with rowing, or paddling, 
as it is called, the first part of the day, and with walkuig the latter part, 
that I did not wake thoroughly ; but dozing between sleeping and waking, 
thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to me; but as the voice conti- 
nued to repeat '^ Robin Crusoe, Robin Crusoe. *' at last I began to wake 
more perfectly, and was at first dreadfully frightened, and started up in 
the utmost consternation; but no sooner were my eyes open, but I saw 
my Pol sitting on the top of the hedge ; and immediately knew it was he 
that spoke to me ; for just in such bemoaning language I had used to talk 
to him, and teach him; and he bad learned it so perfectly that he would 
sit upon my finger^ and lay his bill close to my &ce, and cry, '' poor Robin 
Crusoe! Where are you? Where have you been? How came you 
here? " And such things as I had taught him. 

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and that indeed it could 
be nobody else, it was a good while before I could compose myself. First, 
I was amazed how the creature got thither, and then, how he should just 
keep about the place, and no where else : but as I was well satisfied it 
could be nobody but honest Pol, I got over it, and holding out my hand, 
and calling him by his name, Pol, the sociable creature came to me, and sat 
upon my thumb, as he used to do, and continued talking to me, Poor Robin 
Crusoe ! and how did I come here ? and where had I been ? just as if he had 
been ovaijoyed to see me again : and so I carried him home along with me. 

I now bad enough of ramblmg to sea for some time, and had enough 
to do for many days, to sit still, and reflect upon the danger I had been 
in. I would have been very glad to have had my boat again on my side 
of the bland ; but I knew not how it was practicable to get it about. As 
to the east side of the island, which I had gone round, I knew well enough 
there was no venturing that way; my very heart would shrink, and my 
very blood run chill, but to think of it ; and as to the other side of th« 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. S5 

island, I did not know how it might be there; but suppofing the cnirent 
ran with the same force against the shore at the east as it passed by it on 
Uie otiier, I might run the same risk' of being driven down ilie stream, 
and carried by the island, as I liad been before of being carried away from 
it; so, with these thoughts^ I contented myself to be witiiout my boat, 
though it had been the product of so many months' labour to make it, and 
of so many more to get it into the sea. 

In this government of my temper I remained near a year, lived a very 
sedate, retired life, as you may well suppose; and my thoughts being very 
much composed as to my condition, and fully comforted in resigning my* 
self to the dispositions of Providence, I thought I lived really very happily 
in all things, except that of society. 

I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic exercises which my 
necessities put me upon applying myself to; and I believe I could, upon 
occasion, have made a very good carpenter, especially considering how 
few tools I had. 

Be&ides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my earthenware, 
and contrived well enough to make them with a wheel, which I found 
infinitely easier and better; because I made things round and shapeable, 
which before were filthy things indeed to look on. But I tiiink I was never 
more vain of my own performance, or more joyful Ibr any thing I found 
out, than for my being able to make a tobacco-pipe; and though it was a 
very ugly clumsy thing when it was done, and only burned red, like my 
other earthenware, yet as it was hard and firm, and would draw the 
smoke, I was exceedingly comforted with it, for I had been always used 
to smoke : and there were pipes in the ship, but I forgot them at first, not 
thinking that there was tobacco in the island; and afterwards, when I 
searched the ship again, I could not come at any pipes at aH. 

In my wickerware alsoi.I improved much, and made abundance of ne- 
cessary baskets, as well as my invention showed me; though not very 
handsome, yet they were such as were very handy and convenient for my 
laying things up in, or fetching things home. For example, if I killed 
a goat abroad, I could hang it up in a tree, flay it, dress it, and ent it in 
pieces, and bring it home in a basket; and the like by a turtle : I coidd cut 
it up, take out the e^, and a piece or two of the flesh, which was enough 
for me, and bring them home in a basket, and leave the rest behind me. 
Also large deep baskets were the receivers of my corn^ which I always 
rnbbed out as soon as it was dry, and cured, and kept it in great baskets. 
I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably; this was a 
want which it was impossible for me to supply, and I began seriously to 
consider what I must do when I should have no more powder; that is 
to say, how I should do to kill any goats. I had, as is observed, in the 
third year of my being here, kept a young kM, and bred her up tame, 
and I was in hopes of getting a he-goat : but I could not by any means 
bring it to pass, till my kid grew an old goat; and as I could never find in 
my heart to kill her, she died at last of mere age. 

But being now in the eleventh year of my resklence, and, as I have 
said, my ammunition growing low, I set myself to study some art to trap 
and snare the goats, to see whether I coold not catch some of them aKve ; 
and particulariy, I wanted a she-goat great with yonng. For thip pur*' 



U LDV AMD ADfBMTinilS 

pose, I made smres to hamper tbem; and I do believe tbef were mora 
Ihan once taken in them; hot my tackle was not good, for I had no wiroi 
and I always found them broken, and my bait devoured. At length i 
resolved to try a pitfall : so I dug several large pits in the earth, in plaoea 
whore I had observed the goats used to feed, and over those pits I placed 
hardies, of my own making too, with a great weight upon them; and so- 
Teral times I pot ears of barley and dry rice, without setting the trap; and 
I eoald easUy perceive that the goats had gone in and eaten np the com, 
for I could see the marks of their feet. At length I set tliree traps in one 
night, and going the next morning, I found them all standing, and yet the 
bait eaten and gone; this was very discouraging. Hpwever, I altered my 
traps; and, not to trouble you with particulars, goiof one morning to see 
my traps, I found in one of them a large old he-goat, and in one of the 
others three kids, a male and two females. 

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him; he was so fierce,! 
durst not go into the pit to him ; that is to say, to go about to bring him 
away alive, which was what I wanted; I could have killed him, but that 
was not my business, nor would it answer my end; so I even let him oi|t| 
and he ran away as if he had been frightened out of his wits. But I cKd 
not then know what I afterwards learned, that hunger will tame a lion. 
If I had let him stay there three or four days without food, and then have 
carried him some water to drink, and then a little com, he woidd have 
been as tame as one of the kids; for they are mighty sagacious, tradable 
creatures, where they are well used. 

However, for the present I let him go, knotting no better at that time « 
then I went to the three kids, and taking them one by one, I tied then 
with strings to^sther, and with some difficulty brought them all home. 

It vras a good while before they would feed; but throwing them some 
sweet coBi, it tempted them, and they began to be tame. And now I 
found that if I expected to supply myself with goal^s flesh when I had no 
powder or shot left, breeding some up tame was my only way; when, 
perhaps, I might have them about my house like a flock of sheep. Bo^ 
then it occurred to me, that I most keep the tame Arom the vrild, or else 
Uiey would always run wild when they grew up : and the only way for this 
was, ta have some enclosed piece of ground, well fenced, either with hedge 
or paley to keep them m sp effectually that those within might not bredt 
out, or those without break in. 

This was a great underuking for one pair of hands; yet as I saw there 
was an absolute necessity for doing it, my first work was to find out a 
proper piece of ground, where there was likely to be herbage for th^m to 
eat, water for them to drink, and. cover to keep them from the sun. 

These who understand such enclosures will think I had very little co»* 
trivwce, when I pitched upon a place very proper for ail these, being a 
plain open piece of meadow land, or savannah, as our people call it in the 
western cotonies, which had two or three little rills of fbosb water in it, 
and at one end was very woody; I say, they will smile almy forecast, when 
I shall tell them, I began by enclosing this piece of ground in soeh a man- 
nei(, that my hedge or pale must have been at least two miles about. Nor 
was the madness of it so great as to the compass, for if it was ten mfles 
ahopt, I was like to l^ve time enough to do h in ^ bat I did not eonsichir 



or BouoisoN cBuaofi. ti 

duft ttfgoals W09U be as urild in so much compaM as if they had the 
whole idapd, and I should have so mnehroom to chaae them in (hat I 
sboold neyer ealch them. 

My hedge was begun and carried on, I h^ve about fifty yards, when 
this thought oeeorred to me; so I firesently stofH[)ed short, and, Ibr thft 
first beginoi^g, I resolved to enclose a piece of aboat 180 yards in lengthy 
and 100 yards in breadth; which, as it would mamtaiaasmany as IsbouU 
have in my reasonable tiffie,rSO, as my slock inereasod, i codd add mora 
ground to ray enclosure. 

This was acting with some prudence, and I went to work with oon- 
nige. I was about three months hedging in the first piece; and, till I had 
done it, I tetheioed the three kids in the best part of it, and used them to 
feed as near me as possible, to make them £uniliar ; and very often I would 
go and carry them some ears of barley» or a handfiil oCriee, and feed them 
out of my hand : so that afler ray. enclosure was flnisbed, and I let them 
loose, they would follow me up and down, bleating after me for a handful 
of com. 

This answered my end : and in about a year and a half I had a flock 
of about twelve goats, kids and all; and in two yean more, I had tbref 
and forty, besides several that I took and killed for my food. After thai 
I endosed five several pieces of ground to feed them in, with little pens la 
drive them into, to take them as I wanted, and gates out of one piece o| 
pround into another. 

But this was not all; for now I not only had goat's flesh to feed on 
yfbtn I pleased, but milk too; a Uiing wliich^ indeed, ui the beginning, 
I did not so much as think of, and which, when it came iiitq my thoughts« 
was real^ an agreeable surprise : foi* now I set up my dairy, and hod 
sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a day. And as nature, wha gives 
supplies of food to every creature, dictates even naturally how to make 
use of it, so I, that had never milked a cow, much less a goal^ or seen 
butter or cheese made, only when I was a boy, after a great many essays 
and miscarriages, made me both butter and cheese at last, and also salt 
( though I found it partly made to my hand by the heat of the sun upon 
some of the rocks of the sea), and never wanted it afterwards. How 
mercifuUy can our Creator treat his creatures, even in those conditions 
in wliich they seemed to be overwhelmed in destruction! How can he 
sweeten the bitterest providences, and give us cause to praise him for 
dungeons and prisons! What a table was here spread for me in a 
wilderness, where I saw nothing, at first, but to peri^ for huqger! 

It would have made a stoic smile to have seen me and my lUtle family 
sit down to dinner : there was my majesty, the prince and lord of the 
whole island; I had the lives of all my subjects at ^my absolnte command; 
I could hang, draw, give liberty, and take it away; and no rebels among 
all my subjects. Then to see how like a king I dined too,, all alone, 
attended by my servants! Pol, as if he had been my favourite, was the 
only person permitted to talk to me. My dog, who was now grown very 
old and crazy, and had found no species to multiply his kind upon, sat 
always at my right hand; and two cats, one on one side of the table, and 
one on the other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand, as a mark 
of special livour. 



m LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

But these were not the two cats which I brought on shore at first, for 
they were both of them dead, and had been interred near my habitation 
by my own hand ; but one of them having multiplied by I know not what 
kind of cre^nre, these were two which I had preserved tame ; whereas 
the rest ran wild in the iirobds, and became indeed troublesome to merat 
lest; for they would bften come into my house, and plunder me too, till 
at last I was obliged to shoot them, and did kill a great many ; at length 
they left me.^Wilh this attendance, and in this plentiful manner, I 
liyed ; neither could I be said to want any thing but society : and of that, 
some time after this, I was like to have too much. 

I was something impatient, as I have observed, to have the use of my 
boat, though very loath to run anymore hazards; and therefore sometimes . 
I sat contriving ways to get her about the isSond, and at other tinies I sat 
inyself down contented enough without her. But I had a strange unea- 
siness in my mind to go down to the point of the island,*where, as I have 
said, in my last ramble, I went up the hill to see how the shore lay, and 
how the current set, that I might see what I had to do : this inclination 
increased upon me every day, and at length I resolved to travel thither 
by land following the edge of the shore. I did so; but had any one in 
England been to meet such a man as I was, it must either have frightened 
him, or raised ^ great deal of laughter : and as I frequently stood still to 
look at myself, I could not but smile at the notion of my travelling through 
Yorkshire, with such an equipage, and in such a dress. Be pleased to 
take a sketch of my figure, as follows : 

I had a great, high, shapeless cap, made of a foaf s skin, with a flap 
hanging down behind, as well to keep* the sun from me as to shoot the 
rain o^ from running into my neck : nothing being so hurtful in these 
climates as the rain upon the flesh, under the clothes. 

I had a short jacket of goat'ft skin, the skirts coming down to about the 
middle of the tliighs, and a pair of open-kneed breeches of the same ; the 
breeches were made oflhe skin of an old he-goat, whose hair hung down 
such a length on either side, that, like pantaloons, it reached to the middle 
of my legs; stockings and shoes I had none, but had made me a pair of 
somethings, I scarce know what to call them, like buskins, to flap over 
my legs, and lace on either side like spatterdashes ; but of a most barba- 
rous shape, as indeed were all the rest of my clothes. 

I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I drew together with 
two thongs of 4he same, instead of buckles; and in a kind of a frog on 
dtber side of this, instead of a sword and dagger, hung a little saw and a 
hatchet; one on one side, and one on the other. I had another belt, not 
so broad, and fastened in the same manner, which hung over my shoulder; 
and at the end of it, under my left arm, liung two pouches, both made 
of goat's skin too; in one of which hung my powder, in the other my 
shot. At my back I carried my basket, and on my shoulder my gun; 
and over my head a great, clumsy, ugly goat's ^kin umbrella, but which, 
after all, was the most necessary thing I had about me, next to my gnn^ 
As for my face, the colour of it was really not so mulattolike as one might 
expect fh)m a man not at all careful of it, and living within nine or ten 
degrees of the equinox. My beard I had once suffered to grow till it was 
about 1 quarter of a yard long; but as I had both scissars and razors suf- 



OF ROBINSON CEUSOE. «• 

ficient, I bad cut it pretty short, exoq>t what grew on my apper lip, 
wliieh I had trimmed into a large pair of Mahometan whiskers, sach ts 
I had seen worn hy some Turks at Sallee; for the Moors did not wear 
sach, though the Turks did : of these mustachios or whiskers, I will not 
say they were long enough to hang my hat upon them, but they were of 
a length and shape monstrous enough, and such as in England would 
ha^e passed for frightful. 

But all this is by the by ; for, as to my figure, I had so few to observe 
me that it was of no manner of consequence; so I say no more to that 
part. In this kind of figure I went my new journey, and was out five or 
six days. I travelled first along the seashore, dhrectly to the place where 
I first brought my boat to an anchor, to get upon the rocks ; and having 
BO boat now to take care of, I went over the land, a nearer way, to the 
same height that I was upon before ; when looking forward to tlie poml of 
the rocks which lay out, and which I was obliged to double with my boat, 
as is said above, I was surprised to see the sea all smooth and quiet; no 
rippling, no motion, no current, any more there than in any other place. 
I was at a strange loss to understand this, and resolved to spend some 
time in the observing it, to see if nothing fnm the sets of the tide had 
occasioned it; but I was presently convinced how it was, viz. that the 
tide of ebb setting from the west, and joining with the current of waters 
fipom some great river on the shore, must be the occasion of this current; 
and that according as the wind blew more forcibly from the west, or from 
the north, this current came nearer, or went farther from the shore ; for 
waiting thereabouts tiU evening, I went up to the rock again , and then 
the tide of ebb being made, I plamly saw the current again as before, 
only that it ran farther off, being near half a league firom the shore; 
whereas in ipy case, it set close upon the shore, and hurried me and 
my canoe along with it; which, at another time, it would not have 
done. 

This observation convinced me, that I had nothing to do but to observe 
the ebbing and the flowing of the tide, and I might very easily bring my 
boat about the island again; but when I began to think of putting it in 
practice, I had such a terror upon my spirits, at the remembrance of the 
danger I had been in, that I could not think of it again with any patience* 
but, on the contrary, I took up another resolution, which was more safe, 
though more laborious ; and this wa^, that I would build, or rather make 
roe another periagua or canoe; and so have one for one side of the island, 
and one for the other. 

You are to understand, that now I had, as I may call it, two plantations 
in the island; one, my little fortification or tent, with the wall about it, 
under the rock, with the cave behind me, which, by this time, I had 
enlarged into several apartments or caves, one within another. One of 
these, which was the driest and largest, and had a door out beyond my 
wall or fortification, that is to say, beyond where my wall joined to the 
rock, was all fiHed up with the large earthen pots, of which I have given 
an account, and with fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which would hold 
five or six bushels each, where I laid up my stores of provisions, especially 
my com, some in* the ear, eut off short from the straw, and the other 
robbed out with my hand. 



i9 UFR AKD ADVIffllilllS 

As Carmy waU, made, as before, with long stakes er piieSy thos^ pilei 
grew aU like trees, and were by this time^rown so big, and spreskl so 
tevy nmch, that tiiere was not tat least appearance, to any one's view, 
#f any habitation behind them» 

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within Uie land, and 
open lower groand, lay my two pieces of com land, whieh I kept dnly 
coltivated and sowed, and which duly yielded me their harvest in itsseason : 
and whenever I had oceami ftr more eorn, I had mcveJand adjoin&ig as 
^asthji^. 

Besides ttis, i had my eonnitry seat: and I bad now a tolerable planta-^ 
lion there also : lor, first, I had my little bower, as I eaUcd it, whiehi 
kept in repair; that is to say, I kept the hedge whiefa eneireled k in coo- 
stMilly fitted op to its nsoad hdght, the ladder standing always in the in- 
side : I kept the trees, mlbkh at first were no more than stakes, bol 
were now grown very firm and tall, always cut so that they ra^ht spread 
and grow thkk and wild, and make the more agreeid)le shade; whidi 
they did effectnalfy to my mind. In the middle of this I had my tent 
always stapiding, keing a piece of a sadl s|Nread over poles, set 19 for that 
porpose, and whkh never wanted any repair or renewing; and under this 
I had made me a squab or coueh, with the skins of the ereatvres I had 
killed, and with o^er soft things; and a blanket laidon them, sach as be- 
longed to our seabeddtng, which I had saved, and a great wateh-eoat to 
ovrer me; and here, whenever I had occasion to be absent from my chiel 
seat, i took np my conntry habitation. 

Aliening to thb I had my enclosures for my cattle, that is to say^ my 
goats; and as I had taken an inconcdvable deal of pains to fence and &ir 
close this gromtd, I was so anxious to seeit kept entire, lest the goats 
shfHild break thtongh, thai I never left off, till, with infinite laboqr, I had 
slMk the OQiside of the hedgie so full of small stakes, and so near to one 
another, that it was rather a pale than a hedge, and there was scarce 
room to piU; a hand through between them; which afterwards, when 
those stakes grew, as they all did in the next rainy season, made the ei»» 
closore strcmg like a wall,— indeed, stronger than any wall. 

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that I spared no paias 
to bring to pass whatever appeared necessary for my comfortable support; 
for I considered the keepuig up a breed of tame creatures thus at my haai 
would be a living magazine of flesh, milk, Ijutter, and cheese for me as 
fong as I Ibed in the place, if it were to be forty years ; and that keeping 
them in my reach depended entirely upon my perfecting my enclosures to 
such a degree, that I mi^t be sure of keeping them together; which, by 
this method, indeed, I so effectually secured, that when these little stakes 
began to grow, I had planted them so very thick, that I was forced I0 puH 
some of them np again. 

In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I principally de* 
pended on for my winter store of raisins, and which I never foiled to pre- 
serve very carefoUy, as the best and roost agreeable dainty of my whole 
diet : and indeed they were not only agreeable, but medicmal, wholesome, 
nourishing, and refreshing to the last degree. 

As this vras also ^xrat halC-way between my oOier babitalion and the 
place where I had laid up my boat, I generally stayed and lay here in iny 



OF ROBllfSOIl CRUSOE. #f 

Uftj WQier ; for I used frequently to tisit my boat; and I kepi aH things 
about, or belonging to her, in very good order : sometimes I .went out in 
her to divert myself, but no more hazardous voyages would I go, nor scarce 
ever above a stone's cast or two from the shore, I was so apprehensive of 
beings hurried out of my knowledge again by the currents or winds, or any 
Other accident. But now I come to a new scene of my lil^. 

It happened one day, about noon, going towards my boat, I was exceed- 
ingly surprised wUh the print of a man's naked foot on tlie shore, whidi 
Was very plain to be seen in the sand. I stood like one thunderstruck, or 
is if I bad seen an apparition; I listened, I looked rOund me, but I could 
hear nothing, nor see any thing; I went up to a rising ground, to look 
Ikrther; I went tip the shore, and down the shore, but it was all one; I 
e6nld see no other impression but that one. I went to it again to see if 
there were any more, and to observe if it might not be my fancy; but 
there was no room for that, for there was exactly the print of a foot, toes, 
heel, and every part of a foot : how it came thither I knew not, nor could 
I in the least imagine : but, after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a 
man perfectly confused and out of myself, I came home to my fortifica- 
tion, not feeling, as we say, the ground I went on, but terrified to the 
last degree : looking behind me at every two or three steps, mistaking 
every bush and tree, and fancying every stump at a distance to be a man. 
Nor is it possible to describe how many various shapes my affrighted ima- 
gination represented things to me in, how many wild ideas were found 
every moment in my fancy, and what strange unaccountable whimsiet 
eame into my thoughts by Uie wa(y. 

When I came to my castle (for so I think I called it ever after this), I 
fed into it fike one pursued ; whether t went over by the ladder, as first 
Mntrived, or went in at the hole in the rock, which I had called a door, t 
teinot remember ; no, nor could I remember the next morning : for 
se^er frightened hare fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of 
mind than I to this retreat. 

I slept none that night ; the farther I was from the occasion of my fright, 
the greater my apprehensions were; which is something contrary to the 
nature of such things, and especially to the usual practice of all creatures 
In fear; but I was so embarrassed with my own frightful ideas of th6 
ttdng, that I formed nothing but dismal imaginations to myself, even 
though I was now a great way off it. Sometimes I fancied it must be 
tlie Devil, and reason joined in with me upon this supposition ; for ho^ 
fthouki any other thing in human shape come into the place ? 'Where was 
ttie vessel that brought them? What marks were there of any other 
footsteps? And how was it possible a man should come there? But 
then to think that Satan should take human shape upon him in such it 
place, where there could be no manner of occasion for it, but to leave the 
print of his foot behind him, and that even for no purpose too, for he 
could not be sure I should see it, — this was an amusement the other way. 
I considered that the Devil might have found out abundance of other ways 
to have terrified me than this of the single print of a fbot; that as I lived 
quite on the other side of Uie island, he would never have been so simple 
as to leave a mark in a place where it was ten thousand to one whether I 
dhcftild ever see it or not, and in the sand too, which the first sui^e of the 



92 LIFE AND ADVENTURSS 

sea, upon a high wind, woald have defaced entirely : all this seemed in- 
consistent with the thing itself, and with all the notions we usually enter- 
tain of the subtilty of the Devil. 

Abundance of such thuigs as these assisted to argue me out of all appre- 
hensions of its being the Devil ; and I presently concluded then, that it 
must be some more dangerous creature, viz. that it must be some of the 
savages of the main land over.agamst me, whp had wandered out to sea 
in their canoes, and either driven by the currents or* by contrary winds, 
had made the island, and had been on shore, but were gone away again to 
sea; being as loath, perhaps, to have stayed in this desolate island as I 
would have been to have had them. 

While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was very thankful 
in my tlioughts that I was so happy as not to be thereabouts at that tune, 
or that they did not see my boat, by which they would have concluded 
that some inhabitants had been in the place, and perhaps have searched 
farther for me; then terrihlerthoughts racked my imagination about tiieir 
having found my boat, and that there were people here ; and that if so, I 
should certainly have them come again in greater numbers, and devour 
me ; that if it should happen so that they should not find me, yet they 
would find my enclosore^ destroy all my corn, and carry away all my flock 
of tame goats, and I should perish at last for mere want. 

Thus my fear banished all my religious hope, alt that former confidence 
in God, which was founded upon such wonderful experience as I had had 
of his goodness; as if he that had fed me by miracle hitherto could not 
preserve, by his power, the provision which he had made for me by his 
goodness. I reproached myself with my laziness, that would not sow any 
more corn one year than would just serve me till the next season, as if no 
accident would intervene to prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon 
the ground ; and this I thought so just a reproof that I resolved for the 
future to have two or three years' corn beforehand; so that, whatever 
might come, I might not perish for want of bread. 

How strange a chequer- work of Providence is the life of man ! and by 
what secret different springs are the affections hurried about, as different 
circumstances present ! To-day we love what to-morrow we hate ; to-day 
we seek what to-moirow we shun ; to-day we desire what to-morrow we 
fear, nay, even tremble at the apprehensions of; this was exemplified in 
me, at this time, in the most lively manner imaginable ; for I, whose only 
affliction was that I seemed banished from human society, that I was 
alone, circumscribed by the boundless ocean, col off from mankind, and 
condemned to what I called silent life; that I was as one whom Heaven 
thought not worthy to be numbered among the living, or to appear among 
the rest of his creatures; that to have seen one of my own species would 
have seemed to me a raising me from death to life, and the greatest bless- 
ing that Heaven itself, next to the supreme blessing of salvation, could 
bestow : I say, that I should now tremble at the very apprehensions of 
seeing a man, and was ready to sink into the ground at but the shadow or 
silent appearance of a man's having set his foot in the island. 

Such is the uneven state of human life ; and it afforded me a great many 
curious speculations afterwards, when I had a little recovered my first 
9iirprise. I considered that this was the station of life the inQnitely wise 



OF ROBINSON CRtJS(»;. M 

and good providence of God bad deteraimd for me ; that aa I ooold not 
foresee what the ends of diyine wiadommi^ be in all this, so I was not 
to dispute his sovereigrnty, who, as I was his creatare, bad an andoabted 
right, by creation, to govern and dispose of me absolntely as he thought 
fit ; and. who, as I was a creature that had offended him, had likewise a Ju- 
dicial right to condemn me to what punishment he thought fit; and that 
it was my part to submit to bear his indignation, because I had sinned 
against him. I then reflected, that as God, who was not only righteous, 
but omnipotent, had thought fit thus to punish and afflict me, so he was 
able to deliver me; that if he did not think fit to do so, it was my unques- 
tioned duty to resign myself absolutely and entirely to bis will; and, on 
the other hand, it was my duty also to hope in him, pray to him, and 
quietly to attend the dictates and directions of bis daily providence. 

These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I may say, weeks 
and months ; and one particular effect of my cogitations on this occasion 
I cannot omit : One morning early, lying in my bed, and filled with 
thoughts about my danger from the appearance of savages, I found it 
discomposed me very much ; upon which these words of the Scripture 
cante into my thoughts, '* Gall upoa me in the day of trouble, and I will 
deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." Upon this, ridng clieerfully out 
of my bed, my heart was not only comforted, but I was guided and 
encouraged to pray earnestly to God for deliverance : when I bad done 
praying, I took up my Bible, and opening it to read, the first words that 
presented to me were, ^' Wait on the Lord, and be of good cheer, and he 
shall streDglben thy heart; wait, I say, on the Lord. '' It is impossible 
to express the comfort this gave me. I answer, I thankfully laid down 
the book, and was no more sad, at least on that occasion. 

In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and reflections, it came 
into my thoughts one day, that all this might be a mere chimera of my 
own, and that this foot might be the print of my own foot, when I came 
on shore from my boat : this cheered me up a little too, and I began to 
persuade myself it was all a delusion; that it was nothing else but my own 
foot; and why might I not come that way from the boat, as well as I was 
going that way to the boat? Again, I considered also, that I could by no 
means tell for certain where I had trod, and where I had not; and that 
if, at last, this was only the print of my own foot, I had played the part of 
those fools who try to make stories of spectres and apparitions, and then 
are frightened at them more than any body. 

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again, for I bad not 
stirred out of my castle for tliree days and nights, so that I began to starve 
for provisions ; for I bad little or notliing within doors but some barley- 
cakes and water : then I knew that my goats wanted to be milked toq, 
which usually was my evening diversion ; and the poor creatures were in 
great pain and inconvenience for want of it ; and, indeed, it almost spoiled 
some of them, and almost dried up their milk. Bncouraging myself, 
therefore, with tfie belief that this was nothing but the print of one of my 
own feet, and that I might be truly said to start at my own shadow, I 
began to go abroad again, and went to my country-house to milk my 
flock : but to. jee with what fear I went forward, how often I looked 



cto.jee 



behind me, hm I was ready^ every now and then* lo lay down my baskets 



At UtV ASH) iBVEHTlIRES 

«od mn for my life, it would luvre made any oae hxvB thooghl I wad 
faannted with an evil consdence, or that I had been lately most terribfy 
^htened; and so, indeed, I had. However, as I went down ttins two 
or three days, and faa^g seen nothing, I*began to be a tittle bolder, and 
to think there was really nothing in it bnt my own imagination; bit I 
could not persuade myself Mly of this till I shonld go down to the shore 
again, and see tliis print of a foot, and measure it by my own, and see if 
there was any similitude or fitnass, that I might be assured it was my ovm 
foot : but when I came to the place first, it appeared evidently to me, that 
when I kid up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore any where 
thereabouts : secondly, when I came to measure the mark wtth my own 
foot, I found my foot not so large by a great deal. Both these things filled 
my head with new imaginations, and gave me the vapours again to tke 
Ughest degree, so thi^ I shook with cold like one in an ague ; and I went 
home again, filled with the belief that some man or men. had been on 
thcM'e there; or, in short, that the inland was inhalnted, and I might Ife 
Surprised before I was aware; and what course to take for my security I 
knew not. 

O what ri<ficulou8 resolutions men take when possessed with fear! It 
deprives them of the use qf those means which reason offers for thehr 
raltef. The -first thing I proposed to myself was, to throw down my en- 
closures, and turn all my tame cattle wild into the woods, lest the enemy 
should find them, and then frecpient the island in prospect of the pame or 
the like booty : then to the simple thing of digging op my two com fields, 
lest they should find such a grain there, and still be proniqpted to fireqoent 
<he Island : then to domolish my bower and tent, that they might not see 
any vestiges of habitation, and be proimpted to look forther, in order to 
find oat &e persons inhabiting. 

These were the subject of the first night's cogitations after I was iDome 
home again, while the apprehensions which bad so overrun my mind 
were fresh upon me, and my head was fiill of vapours as above. Thus 
fear of danger is ten thousand times more terrifying than dagger itself, 
when apparent to the eyes; and we find the burden of anxiety greater, by 
much, than the evil which we are anxious about : and, which was worse 
Ihan idl this, I had not that relief in this trouble firom the resignation I 
used to practfe9e,.that t hoped to have. I locked, I thought, like Saui, 
who complained not only that the Philistines were upon hini, but that 
God had forsaken him ; for I did not now take due ways to compose my 
telnd, by trying to God in ihy distress, and resting upon his providence, 
as I had done before, for my defence and deliverance; which, if I had 
4one, I bad it least been more cheerfoUy supported under this new sur- 
prise, and pel-haps carried through it with more resolution. 

This conftasfcm of my thdu^ts kept me awake all night; b6t in the 
momii% I feil eAeep ; arid having, by the amusement of my mind, been, 
as it were, tired, and my spirits enhausled, I slept very soohdiy, and 
waked much better composed than I had ever been before. And now I 
begaii to think sedately ;' and, upon the utmost debate with myself, Icon'> 
duded that this island, which was so exceedingly pleasant, fruitfti^ and 
no farther from the main land than as I had seen, wayiot so entirely 
iMttdoned as I might imagme; that althMg^ there wereno staiad iaha* 



df EOBiraoN catsoit. is 

()jtiiiit9 wiio iiTed on the spot, yet Oiat there migfat eonmlimes oone boats 
ofif from the ehore, who, either with deftign, or pertiaps nev« but when 
they wore driTen by cross winds, might come to this place; that I had 
lived here fifteen yean now, and had not met with the least shadow or 
figure of any people yet ; and that if at any time they should be driven 
here, it was probable they went away again as soon as evor they could, 
seeing they had never thought fit to fix here upon any occasion; that the 
most I could suggest any danger from, was from any casual acddenlal 
landing of straggling people from the mnn, who, as it was likely, if they 
were driven hither, were here i^akist Iheir wills, so they made no stay 
here, but wait off again with all posstt^le speed ; seldom staying one night 
pn shore, lest they should not have the help of the tides and daylight 
iMick again; and that, therefore, I had nothing to do but to consider of 
some safe retreat, in case I should see any savages Ihnd upon the spot* 

Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave so laige as to 
bring a door through again, which door, as I said, came out beyond where 
my fortification joined to the rwAi : upon maturely considering this, Ibere- 
fore, Iresoived to draw me a second fortification, in the same manner of 
a semichde, at a distance from my wall, just where I had planted a dou- 
ble row of trees about twelve years before, of which I made mention : these 
trees having been planted so thick before, they wanted but few piles to be 
driven between them, that they nrighl be thicker and stronger, and my 
wall would be soon fiiitghed. So that I had now a double wall ; and my 
outer wall was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and every 
thing I could think of, to make it strong; having in It seven little holes, 
about as big as I might put my arm sot at. In tfie inside of this, I thick- 
ened my wall to about ten feet thick, with continually bi%iging eanh out 
of my cave, and laying it at the foot of the wall, aild walking upon it; 
and through the seven holes I contrived to plant the muskets, of which t 
look notice that I had got seven on shore out of the ship; these I planted 
fike my cannon, and fitted them uito flrames, that held them like a car- 
riage, so diat I eould fire all the seven guns in two minutes' time, this 
wall I was many a weary month in finiflhing, and yet never thought my- 
aelf safe tUl it was done. 

When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my wall, for a 
great length every way, as foil with stakes or sticks of the osierlike wood, 
which I found so apt to grow, as they could weH stand; hisomnch, that I 
believe I might set in near twenty thousand of them, leaving a pretty 
large space between them and my wall, that I might have room to see an 
enemy, and they might have no shelter from the young trees, if they 
attempted to approach my outer wall. 

Thus, in two years time, I had a thick grove ; and in five or six years* 
ihne, I had a wood before my dwelling, growing so monstrous thick and 
gtrtliiff that it was indeed perfectly impassable ; and no men, of what kind 
soever, would ever hnagine that thero was any thing beyond it, much less 
a habitation. As for the way which I proposed to myself to go in and 
out ( for I left no avenue ), it was by setting two ladders, one to a part 
of the rock which was low, and then broke in, and left room to place an- 
other ladder upon that ; so when the two ladders wero taken down, no man 
living could come down to me vrithont dohig himself nusdiief ;aiKllf the| 



M UlPE AND ADTSNTUUS 

had come down, they were still on the outside of my enter wall. 

Thns I took all the measures human prudence could suggest for my 
own preservation ; and it will be seen, at length, that they wiere not al- 
together without jost reason ; though I foresaw nothmg at that time more 
than my mere fear suggested to me. 

While this was doing, I was not altogether cardess of my other afiairs ; 
for I had a great concern upon me for my little herd of goats; they were 
not only a ready supply to me on every occasion, and began to be suffi- 
cient for me, without the expense of powder and shot, but^ also without 
the fatigue of hunting after the wild pn^* ; anid I was loath to lose the ad- 
vantage of them, and to have them all to nurse up over again. 

For this purpose, after long considerajlion, I could think of but two 
ways to preserve them : one was, to find another convenient place to dig 
a cave under ground, i^d to drive them into it every nigfht^ and the other 
was, to enclose two or three little bits of land, remote from one another, 
and as much concealed as I could, where I might keep about half a dozen 
young goats in each place ; so .that if any disaster happened to the flock in 
general, I might be able to raise them again with little trouble and time : 
and this, though it would require a great deal of time and labour, Ithonght 
was the most rational design. 

AQCordingly, I spent some time to find out thei most retired parts of 
the island ; and^I pitched upon one, which was as private, indeed, as my 
heart could wish for : it was a little damp piece of ground, in the middle 
of the hollow and thick woods, where, as is observed, I almost lost myself 
once before, endeavouring to come back that way from the eastern part 
of the island. Here I found a clear piece of land, near three acres, so 
surrounded with woods, that it was almost an enclosure by nature; at 
least it did not want near so much labour to make it so as the other pieces 
of ground I had worked so hard at. 

I immediately went to work with this piece of ground, and in less than 
a month's time I had so fenced it round that my flock, or herd, call it 
which you please, who were not so wild now as at first they might be sop- 
posed to be, were well enough secured in it ; so, without any farther de- 
lay, I removed ten young she-goats, and two he-goats, to this piece; and 
when they were there, I continued to perfect the fence, till I had made it 
as secure as the other; which, however, I did at more leisure, and it took 
me up more time by a great deal. All this labour I was at the expense 
of, purely from my apprehensions on the account of the print of a man's 
foot which I had seen; for, as yet, I never saw any human creature come 
near the island; and I had now lived two years under this uneasiness; 
which, indeed, made my life much less comfortable than it was before, 
as may be well imagined by any who knows what it is to live in the con- 
stant snare of the fear of man. And this I must observe, with grief too^ 
that the discomposure of my mind had too great impressions also upon 
the religious part of my thoughts : for the dread and terror of falling, into 
the hands of savages and cannibals lay so upon my spirits that I seldom 
found myself in a due temper for application to my Maker, at least not 
with the sedate calmness and resignation of soul which I was wont to do : 
I rather prayed to God as under great affliction and pressure of mind, 
surrounded with danger, and in expectation every night of being murder- 



biF BOBINSON CRUSOlS. ^ 

ed and devoured before morning; and I mast testify from my experience 
that a temper of peace, thankfulness, lore, and affection^ is mnchthe more 
proper frame for prayer than that of terror and discomposure; and that 
onder the dread of mischief im[)ending, a man is no more fit for a com- 
forting performance of the duty of praying to God, than he is for a repen- 
tance on a sick bed , for these discomposures affect the mind, as the others 
do the body; and the discomposure of the mind must necessarily be as 
great a disability as that of the body, and much greater; praying to God 
beii^ properly an act of the mind, not of the body. 

But to 90 on : after I had thus secured one part of my little living stock, 
I went a^t the whole island, searching. for another priyate place to make 
siich another deposit; when wandering more to the west point of the is- 
land than I had ever done yet, and looking out to sea, I thought I saw a 
boat upon the sea, at a great distance. I had found a perspective-glass 
or two in one of the seamen's chests, which I saved out of our ship, but I 
had it not about me ; and this was so remote that I could not tell what 
to make of it, though I looked at it till my eyes were not able to hold to 
look any longer; whether it was a boat or not, I do not know, but as I 
descended from the hill I could see no more of it ; so I gave it over ; only 
I resolved to go no more out without a perspective-glass in my pocket. 
When I was come down the hill to the end of the island, where, indeed, 
I had never been before, I was presently convinced that the seeing the' 
print of a man's foot was not such a strange thing in the. island as I ima- 
gined : and but that it was a special providence that I was cast upon the sMe 
of the island where the savages never came, I sbould easily have known 
that notlung was more frequent than for the canoes from the main, when 
they happened to be a little too far out at sea, to shoot over to that side of 
the islji^nd for harbour : likewise, as they often met and fought in their 
canoes, -the victors, having taken any prisoners, would bring them over to 
this shore, where, according to their dreadftil customs, beingatl cannibals, 
they would kill and eat them ; of which hereafter. 

When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said above, benig the 
S. W. point of the island, I was perfectly confounded and amazed ; nor is 
it possible for me to express the horror of my mind, at seeing the shore 
spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones of human bodies; and 
particalarly, I observed a place where there had been a fire made, and a 
circle dug in the earth, like a cockpit, were I supposed the savage wretches 
had sat down to their inhuman feastings upon the bodies of their fellow 
creatures. 

I was so astonished with the sight of these things, that I entertained no 
notions of any danger to. myself from it for a long while : all my appre- 
hensions were buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman, hellish 
bnitfllity, and the horror of the degeneracy of human nature, which, 
thoiigli I had heard of it often, yet I never had so near a view of before : 
in short, I turned away my face from the horrid spectacle ; my stomach 
grew sick, and I was jnst at the point of fainting, when nature discharged 
the disoktHhr from niy stotnach ; and havmg vomited with uncommon vio- 
lence, I vrak a little reKeted^'but could not bear t^ stay in the place a mo« 
ment ; so I got mo up the hill again with all the speed I could, and walk- 
ed on towards my bwn habitation. 

T 



yir)i^ I came ^ Uf (I^ 941 pi t(iat par( of the islanc), f stop/l still aiyl^ile, 
as qn^azecl, ^d J^ien 5:^;QQVf ring n^y^elf, I looked up ^jih ^liq utmost §ffei^- 

$n of my soul, m, fhl] 3 flood gf le^i? \n n^iy ^y.^ p^ye (io^d t^n^ 
4 ^^^ ?^s^ fl*>^ fjR^ *9^ W % R'^^^ Q^ 4»f '^9J^\^ Vfl^^re I ly^g <}^iinguis<^?4 
frqro ^pfh dreadfuj crealq^e? as theses; and that, Jho,ug)) { jiajj ^teemed 

ipy pf:?s.ent coi^dUioii yf IJ ffl**ftr?iUl^> had yet giyf n. ^ei so maiiy c9|in{Qiife 
in i(^ lliat I had stili (^o^e ^q givc^ thanks for than to compjaiQ of : and Xki^^ 
above a^l, th^t X fiad, eV^Q V^ ^^M^ ^V^^^^^J^ condition, be^n coinfor.te(} with 
he knowledge of tlimseli^ ^d 1^ hoj;;^ of his biessipg : ^hijph wa$ a ^1^: 
city ifipre than safficifia():^^g)iiyal^ni to all db.e misery ^bicb 1 ba4 ?ufi^- 
^(^, or. (jpuld suffer. * '. 

In tiis firanie of Ui^n^fpljje^?, I weii.t Ijome to ipy. c^fle, aftc\ }^gg^^ (qt 
be Eiiucn easier i^>^, ^s tp Uie satfely qf my circuipstancef^, t^afi qy^r I 
was before : (or I obs!erv<^|^ that these wretct^e$ ^eyer ca^ 19, tl^j;^ v^l<^(4 
i^ fearcb of >yhat t^y 9jp»uld get; perljiaps noj^ seji;klng^ n|i^; ^a^li^i^g, ojut 
i^t expecting, anything ^re; a^d ba\;iQg of^en, 1^9. doubt, l^en'ija ir Q^ 
cpveitld woody part ol^ i^ without mu\ii^ «^yl^ii|g to ^leir pi|iiK^. l 
knew I bad begn ))ei*^ now. almost ^i\i^^^it^a^^ s^d nevQc sa;w fl^. 1§94 
l^tsteps of bumaii creatujre t^ere i)#cci| an|d, I n^j^bt be^^gbt^^ye^ 
iiipre as entirely concealed ?<$ X ^^^ ^^^ ^ I 4>4^9i( disQoyor. my^dU (0 
tbem, ii?bicb I bad no 9^apner of occasion to dq^ It l^i^g ipy oply bpsine^ 
tq l^eep myself eplirejy ^flpceaied ^.b^e t waip, Vp^^^ I. foffnd ^. ^i^ 
sprt of creatures tlian cajiuioali tp niake mysc^lf Ifiipwu ]lp, \^t I ^njti^-r 
tabled such an abhorrence of the sayage vfr^fjch^s t^4 ^ ^X*^ ^^ IP^%kU)g 
c^ and of tbe wretched inluiman custoui of their dj^yoiipug ^4 eatipg 
fl|p^ another up, that I continued pensive and sa^d, afid k^pt close wilhiQ 
npiy qwD circle, for almost t^wo years after this ; wbjsp I ssfy. my own circle, 
I iDf^an by it my tl^tee plantation^, viz. my castl^, my CQui^lry seat, wbitfb 
X called my bower,' and my enclosure in the woods : ngr didllopk after 
this for 9Xiy other use t,|ian a§ 4p ^ncloijure for my goaU ; foe t)ie ^y^r;siqD 
which nature gave me to tlij^se l^eiiisb wretches wa^ spch, that I lya^ 
a^ feiirlul of seeing thein as of seeing the Pevil bimpelf* I did i^p^ so 
ifuicb as go to l()ok aflei; my boat ^U this tipi^, b^( b^p i^^ber tq 
t|)iAk of making' me. another \ % X^ Qould oqt ihin^ qf. ^pr» rf^i^UfS, 
apy more. ^^V^mpts to, ^r^i^g; iji^ ollipr boat round tije i.slar)4 ip ^W^t ^^^ 
If should meet ^}'ith sqm^ of tlf^e creatures at sea; i^ w^icli, ifhh^i 
happened to l^ave fallen in^ tl)eir hands, I knew wh^t v^qji^dl)^a,vfi.4§^n 
iifylot. 

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was in no 4dOg^ of 
l^ing discovered by tjiese people, }^m tq w^r off my iifteat^jnc^. abopt 
tbem; and 1 began tp live just i^ tbe sam^ composed m^pi^r. as bigfoce; 
oply with ti}^ difference, tl^t I used more caution, and kept my eyes 
more aix)ut.me l!han I did before, lest I shquld happep tq be seen by apy 
ot theni; an4, particularly, I was ipore cautious of firing my gmi) ^t apy 
o^ them, being on the island, should happen to hear it. It w^ ther/ifore 
a very good providence to me that I had furnished mys>elf with a tame 
breed of gpats, and that 1 had no need tq bunt any mcM^ about thfi 
W()!ods, or 8l)oot at tbem ; aud if I difl catph any qf tbem afi^ tbi» it was 
by traps^and snar^, as I bad done before; so that, lor tp^oyoari after, 
this, I believe I never fired my gun onqe off, tbougb I QfiVjtr HCWt oq^ 



or BOKNSOK CftOSOE. Yt 

Irtthoiit k; and, -wUkh was more, as I had gived teee fRStds oil if Hie 
ibip) I always carried tl^m out with roe, or at least two of Itiem^ siioking 
tbsttk in my goatskin belt. I also furbiskied «ip one of the great oatlassA 
tHat I had out of tiie ship, and made ane a belt to hang it on also; so tbal 
i was DOW a most formidable fellow to look at whea I went alroad, If 
!«• add i» the former description of niyself, the parliii^iilar of two pistols^ 
and a great broadsword hanging at my Mde in a belt, Itait wilkoiit a 
scabbard. 

Tbings going on thus, as I have said, for some time, I seemed, ex^ 
osptifig t2iese cautions, to be reduced to my former calm, sedate way of 
Vfiog. All these tilings tended lo show me, more and more, how ftnr my 
iond^B waa from being miserable, compared to some ethers; nay, H 
iwuiy otber pariicuiars of life, which it migitt have pleased God to batt 
ftiade my lot. It pot me upon reilecling how litile repining tliere wottld 
be among mantuod at any condition of life, if people would rather company 
Ibeir coadilion with tliose that were worse, m order to be thankful, thaA 
be always comparing them with those which are better, to assist their 
monwiringf and complainings. 

A$ in my present condition there were not really many things which t 
wanted, so, indeed, I thought that the Trights I had been in about these savage 
wrdches, and the conceni I had been in for my own preservation, had taken 
off the ed^ of my invention for my owni conveniences; and I had dropped 
a good design, which I bad once bent my thouglits too much upon, and 
tbat was, tio try if I could not make some of my bsirlf y into malt, and then 
try to brew myself some beer. This was really a whimsical thought, and 
I reproved myself often lor the simplicity of It; for I presently saw there 
wofuld be the want of several things necessary to the making my beer^ 
that it would be impossible for me to supply : as, fli st, casks to preserve 
it in, which was a thing that, as I have observed already, I could never 
compass : no, tlioogli I spent not only many days, bnt weeks, hay months^ 
ill attempting it, hut to no purpose. In tlie next place, I had no hops t6 
make it keep, no yeast to make it work, no copper or kettle to make it 
boil ; and yet with all tliese things wanting, T verily believe, had not the 
Ingbl^ and terrors I was in about the savages intervened, I had un^ 
d^aken it, and perhaps brooght it to pass too; for I seldom gave any 
thiilg over without accomplishing it, when once I had it iH my head 16 
begin it. But my invention now ran qjaite another way; for, night and 
day, i could tliink of notliing but how I might destn)y some of these 
monsters in their' cruel, bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save tht 
vjctbii tbey sbooid bring hither (o destroy. It would take op a laiger 
YoLorae than this wliole work is intended to be, to set down all the eon-^ 
Irmnces I hatched, or rather brooded upon, in my thoughts, for the die^ 
Itrpying these ereatnres.or-fli least ftrightening them so as to [H*event tbefr 
foming^ tiitiier any more : but all' this was abortive ; nothing could be pos« 
IiUq to take elfeet, unless I was there to do it myself: and what could 
one man do among them, when perhaps there might be twenty or thirty 
9fibem tqg»lber, with tlieir darts, or ilieir bows and arrows, with which 
ttey could shoot as true to a nu^k as I eouid with my gun ? 

Sometimes i thougbt of digging a hole under the place where thef 
mde Ibeir fisay aiwb putting in five or w pounds of gonpowder^ whieh^i 



fOO LIFE ANB ADVENTURES 

when they kindled their fire, woald conseqaently take fire, and blow tip 
all that was near it : but as, in the first place, I should be unwilling to 
waste so roudi powder upon them, my store.being now within- the quan- 
tity of one barrel, so neither could I be sore of its* going off at any certain 
time, when it might surprise them; and at best, that^t would do little 
more than just blow the fire about their ears, and fright them, but not 
sufficient to make them forsake the place : so I laid it aside; and then 
proposed that I would place myself in ambush in some convenient place, 
with my three guns all double loaded, and in the mMdle of their bloody 
jceremony, let fly at them, when I should be sure to kill or wound perhaps 
two or three at every shot; and then falling in upon them with my three 
pistols, and my sword, I made no doubt but that if there were twenty I 
should kill them ail. This fancy pleased my thoughts for some weeks; 
and I was so full of it, that I often dreamed of it, and sometimes, that I 
was just going to let fly at them in my sleep. I went so far with it in 
my imagination, that I employed myself several days to find out proper 
places to put myself in ambuscade, as I said, to watch for them; and I 
went frequently to the place itself, which was now grown more familiar 
to me : but while my mind was thus filled with thoughts of revenge, and 
a bloody putting twenty or thirty of them to the sword, as I may call it, 
the horror I had at the place, and at the signals of the barbarous wretches 
devouring one another, abetted my malice. Well, at length, I found a 
place in the side of the hill, where I was satisfied I might securely wait 
till I saw any of their boats coming : and- might then, even -before they 
would be ready to come on shore, convey myself unseen into some thickets 
x)f trees, in one of which there was a hollow large enough to conceal m^ 
entirely : and there I might sit and observe all their bloody doings^ and 
take my full aim at their heads, when Ihey were so close together as that 
it would be next to impossible tliat I should miss my shot, or that I could 
fail wounding thr^ or four of them at the first shot. In this place, then, 
J resolved to fix my design ; and accordingly, I prepared two muskets 
and my ordinary fowlingpiece. The two muskets I loaded with a brace 
.of: slugs each, and four or five smaller bullets, about the size of pistol 
bullet^; and the fowlingpiece I loaded with near a handful of swan-shot of 
|;he largest size : I also loaded my pistols with about four bullets each ; and 
Jin this posture, well provided with ammunition for a secohd and third 
(Charge, I prepared myself for my expedition. 

After I had thus laid the scheme of my design, and in my imagination 
put it in practice, I continually made my tour every morning up to the 
top of the hill, which was from my castle, as I called it, about three miles, 
or more, to see if I could observe any boats upon the sea comuig near 
tlie island, or standing over towards it : but I began to tire of this hard 
duty, after I had, for two or three months, constantly kept my watch, but 
came always back without any discovery ; there having not, in all ihit 
time, been the least appearance not only on or near the shore, but on the 
whole ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses could reach every way. 

As long as I kept my daily tour to the hill to look out, so long also I kepi 
up the vigour of my design, and my spirits seemed to be all the while in a 
suitable form for so outrageous an .execution as the killing twenty or thirty 
naked savages, for an offeo^vwhiah I Jiagd not at all entered into any dis*^ 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 401 

cassion of in my thoughts, any forther than my passions were at first fired 
by the horror I conoeiYed at the unnatural custom of the people of that 
country ; who, it seems, had been suffered by Providence, in his wise dis- 
position of the world, to have no other guide than that of their own abo- 
minable and vitiated passions; and, consequently, were left, and perhaps 
had been so for some ages, to act sueh horrid things, and receive such 
dreadful customs, as nothing but nature, entirely abandoned by Heaven, 
and actuated by some hellish degeneracy, could have run them into. But 
now, when, as I have said, I began to be weary of the fruitless excursion 
which I had made so long and so far every morning in vain, so my opinion 
of the action itself b€^n to alter; and I began, with cooler and calmer 
thoughts, to consider what I was going to engage in; what authority 
or call I had to pretend to be judge and executioner upon these men as 
criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit, for so many ages to suffer, un- 
punished, to go on, and to be, as it were, the executioners of his judg- 
ments one upon another. How far these people were offenders against 
me, and what right I had to engage in the quarrel of that blood which 
they shed promiscuously upon one another, I debated this very often with 
myself thus : How do I know what God himself judges in this particular 
case ? It is certain these people do not commit this as a crime; it is not 
against their own consciences reproving, or their light reproaching them ; 
they do not know it to be an offence, and then commit it in defiance of 
divine justice, as we do in almost all the sins we commit. They think it 
no more a crime to kill a captive taken in war, than we do to kill an ox : 
nor to eat human flesh, than we do to eat mutton. 

When I considered this a little, it followed necessarily that I was cer- 
tainly in the wrong in it, that these people were not murderers in the 
sense that I had before condemned them in my thoughts, any more than 
those Christians were murderers who often put to death the prisoners 
taken in battle; or more frequently, upon many occasions, put wiiole 
troops of men to the sword, without giving quarter, though ^hey threw 
down their arms, and submitted. In iJbe next place it occurred to me, that 
although the usage they gave one another was thus brutish and inhu- 
man, yet it was really nothing to me ; these people had done me no injury : 
that if they attempted me, or I saw it necessary, for my immediate pre- 
servation, to fall upon them, something might be said for it ; but that I 
was yet out of their power, and tliey really had no knowledge of me, and 
consequently no design upon me; and therefore it could not be just for 
me to fall upon them ; that this would justify the conduct of the Spa- 
niards in all their barbarities practised in America, where they destroyed 
millions of these people : who, however they were idolaters and barba- 
rians, and had several bloody and bari9arous rites in tlieir customs, such 
as sacrificing human bodies to their id<ris, were yet, as to the Spaniards, 
very innocent people^ and that the rooting them out of the country is 
spoken of with the utmost abhorrence and detestation by even the Spa- 
niards themselves at this time, and by all other Christian nations in Eu- 
rope, as a mere butchery, a bloody and unnatural piece of cnielty, un- 
justifiable either to God or man ; and for which the very name of a 
Spaniard is reckoned to be frightful and terrible to all people of humanity 
or of Christian coju^possipn; as if the kingdom of Spain were particularly 



IM Un USD ADVENTORD 

emmeDt for the pre^ce of a race of men, whe were wHIiDtit prindpM 
of tenderness or the common bowels of pity to the misersiMe, which Ml 
reckoned to be a mark of generous temper in the mind. 

These consideraiions really put me to a paa^, and to a kind of a foil 
stop ; and I began by Httle asd littii* to be (iff my design, and to conctiid^ 
I liad taken wrong measures in ray resolulion to attack the savages; and 
that it was not my business to meddle with them, unless tliey first attack^ 
fd me; and this it was my business, if possible, to prevent; hat that If I 
firere discovered and attacked by them, I knew my duty. On ttte other 
hand, I argued with myself, that this really was the way not to delrre^ 
myself; but entirely to ruin and destroy myself; Ibr unless I was sore f6 
kill every one that not only should be on shore at that time, but that 
shopld ever come on shore afterwards, if but one of them escaped to tetf 
tb^r country-people whai had happened, they would come ever again bf 
IhoqsaDds to revenge the death of their felh)ws, and 1 should only bring 
vpoB myself a certain destruction, which, at present, I had no manner <^ 
oecawion for. Upon the whole, I concluded, that neither in principle 
qpr in policy I ought, o^ w^ or other, to concern mysf If in this affair : 
Uiat my business was, by ail possible means, to conceal myself from them, 
9nd not to leave the least signai to'them to guess by that there were any 
^ving creatures upon the island, I mean of human shape. Religion joined 
ill with this prudential resolation; and I was convinced now, many ways, 
Ibat I was perfectly out of my duty when I was laying a^ my bloody 
aobemes for the destruction of innocent creatures, I mean innocent as to me. 
As to the crimes they were guilty of towards one another, I had nothing 
tftdo with them; they were natiowil, and 1 oiight to leave them to the 
jjostiee of God, who is the governor of nations, and knows how, by nation- 
al panlsliments, t^ make a just retribution for nartional offences, and tx» 
bring pttb^^ judgments upon those who ofHen# in a public manner, by 
sQch ways as best please him;. This appeared so clear to me now, thai 
nothing was a greater satisfaction to me than that I had not been suffered 
tp do a thing which I now saw so much reason to lielieve would have been 
no less a sin than tiial of wilful murder, if I had committed it ; and I gave 
910SI bamble thanks on my knees to God, that had tlios delivered tM 
from bloodrguiitiuess ; beseeching him to grant me the protection of hM 
providence, that I might not fall into the hands of the barbarians, or thaf 
f might not lay my hands upon them, unless I had a more dear call from 
Heaven to do it, in defence of my own life. 

In this disposition I cnntiniied for near a year after this ; and so far was 
I from desiring an occasion ibr felling upon these wretches, that in aH 
that time I never once went «p the hill to see whether there were any of 
Ibem in sight, or to know whether aiiy of them had been on shore therCP 
or not, l:faal I might not be tempted to renew any of my contriv^mcet 
against Uiem, or be pi evoked, by any advantage that might present itsell^^ 
to £^1 upon them : only this I did, I went and removed my boat, which I 
had on tlie other side of the island, and carried it down to the east end of 
the whole island, where I ran it into a little cove, which I found under some 
high rocks, and where I knew, by reason of the currents, the savages 
durst not, at least would not come vrith their boats upon any account 
whatever. WiA my boal I carried away WBtf thing thai I had leH 






OF RbBlNSON CkutoE. I* 

itiere belongihg lo her, thou^ti not Hiecessary for the bare goiiig thither, 
Tiz. j ihihi and sail which t had made for her, and a thing like an auchbr, 
bat which indeed conld hot be balled either atichor or grapnel; however, 
it wa^ the best t could make 6i its kind : all these t removed, that ther^ 
ihight not be the least shadow of any discovery, or any appearance of ant 
boat, dr otatiy human habitation upon the Island. Besides this, I kept 
ihysl^lf, aS I said, rilore t-etired than fevfei*, knd sfeldom went from my cell, 
6tlifer than tiboii mi cofistint tfaij;jloyifafeht, viz. to milk niy bhe-goats, in8 
ihahaie my Httle tfbek In Ihe <lrdod. which, as 11 was quite qn the othet 
piTt 6f th6 Islanci, wds (juit^ out otAihser; m c^tain it is, that these kih 
vage people wh6 sometimes haunted this isiafid, never came with ddjr 
thoughts of finding anything herfe, and Consequently never wandered off 
frdm the cbast; dhd I doubt hot but they might have been several tihi^ 
dh shore dftei* thy apflrehensions 6t ihem had made me cautions, as well 
as before. Indeed I looked back with some horror upon the thoughts of 
What hiif cdhdilldn would hdvb beeh if I Jiad dropped lipdh iheni and b^n 
discovered belbr^ thdt, wKeH, naked atid dharmed, except with one j^vih, 
and that loaded often oiily with small 6hot, t walkfed every where, peejh 
ing and peering about the island to see what 1 could gel ; what a surprise 
should I havebeeti Iri, If, when I discovered the print of a man's foot, I 
had, instead of that, seeil fifteen or twenty savaged, and fbund them pur- 
suing me, and h^ the Sv^iftness of their rhnning, no possibility of my es- 
caping theM ! The thonghts of (his sometimes snhk m^ v^ry soul withlh 
ine, and distressed my mind so much ihat t could hot soon recover it, tb 
think what I should have done, and how t should not Only have be^n uriij- 
h\e (b i-eslst thetn. bht evep shoiild hot halve had Jif-esence df mind enough 
to do what I mipt have done; much less what now, after so miich cori- 
sjderatfon and preparation, I might be able to do. Indeed, after seHotts 
thinking of these things, t would he very melancholy^ and sometimes ft 
would last a great white ; but I resolved it all, at last, intd thankfulness tb 
that Providence whffch had delivered mfe fTom so many unseen dangeri^, 
Ifhd had kept from me those mischiefs which I could have no ^a'y been 
the dgent In delivering myself from, because I had hot the least notioh 
6f any such thihg depending, or the least supposition of its being posA- 
Me. This rienewed a (contemplation which often had come to my thooghfc 
in former time, WKen first I began to see the merciful dispositions of Hed- 
ten, in the dangers we run through in this life ; how Wonderfully we are 
dehtercd when we know nothing of it; how, when we are in a quandary 
(as we calf it), a doubt or hesitation whether to f o this way, or that way, 
i secret hint shall direct us this way, When we intended td go that way : 
nfay, when sense, our own inclination, and perhaps bu^ness, has called 
to go the other way, yet a strange impression npoh the mind, fi'om we 
know not what springs, and b^ we know not What power, shall overfure 
ns td go this way ; and it sliall afterwards appear, that had we gon6 thait 
way which we should have gone, and even to 6ur ImagFnation ought tb 
have gone, we should have been ruined and lost. Upon these, and manjr 
Kke reflectldns, I afterwards tode it a certain rule with me, that when- 
ever 1 fonnd those secret hints or pressings of mind, td doing or riot 
doing anything that presented, or going this Way or that wafy, 1 lievev 
failed to obey the secret dictate^ though I knew no dther rieasori for ft 



104 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ihan that sach a pressure, or such a hint, hung upon my mind. I could 
give many examples of ihe success of this conduct in the course of my life, 
but more especially in the latter part of my inhabiting this unhappy island; 
besides many occasiops ^bich it is very likely I might have taken notice 
of, if I had seen with the same eyes then that I see with now. But it is 
never too late to be wise ; and I cannot but advise all considering men, 
whose lives are attended with such extraordinary incidents as mine, or 
even though not so extraordinary, not to slight such secret Intimations of 
Providence, let them come from what invisible intelligence they will. 
That I shall not discuss, and perhaps cannot account for ; but certainly 
they are a proof of the converse of spirits, and a secret communication 
between those embodied and those unembodied, and such a proof as can 
never be withstood; of which I shall have occasion to give some very re- 
markable instances in the remainder of my solitary residence in this dis- 
mal place. 

I believe the reader of this will not think it strange, if I confess tliat 
these anxieties, these constant dangers I lived in, and the concern that 
was now upon me, put an end to all invention, and to all the contrivances 
that I had laid for my future accommodations and conveniences. I had the 
care of my safety more now upon my hands than that of my food. I cared 
not to drive a nail, or chop a stick of wood now, for fear the noise I 
might make should be heard : much less would I fire a gun, for the same 
reason : and, above all, I was intolerably uneasy at making any fire, les( 
t}ie smoke, which is visible at a great distance in the day, should betray 
me. For this reason I removed that part of my business which required 
fire, such as burning of pots and pipes, etc. into my new apartment in the 
woods; where, after I had been some time, I found to my unspeakable 
consolation, a mere natural cave in the earth, which went in a vast way, 
and where, I dare say, no savage, had he been at the mouth of it, would 
be so hardy as to venture in; nor, indeed, would any man else, but one 
who like me wanted nothing so much as a jsafe retreat. 

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great rock, where by 
mere accident (I would say, if I did not see abundant reason to ascribe 
all such things now to Providence), I was cutting down some thick 
branches of trees to make charcoal ; and before I go on I must observe 
the reason of my making this charcoal, which was thus : I was afraid of 
making a smoke about my habitation, as I said before ; and yet I could not 
live there without baking my bread, cooking my meat, etc. ; so I contri- 
ved to burn some wood here, as I bad seen done in England, under turf, 
till it became cbaj-k, or dry coal : and then putting the fire out, I preserv- 
ed the coal to carry home, and perform the other services for which fire 
was wanting, without danger of smoke. But this is by the by : — ^While 
I was cutting down some wood here, I perceived that behind a very 
thick branch of low brushwood or underwood, there was a kind of hollow 
place : I was curious to look in it, and getting with difficulty into the 
mouth of it, I found it was pretty large : that is to say, sufficient for me 
to stand upright in it, and perhaps another with me : but I must confess 
to you that I made more haste out than I did in, when, looking farther 
into the place, and which was perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining 
eyes of some creature, whether devil or man I knew not, twinkilAg like 



• OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 10$ 

two stars; the dim li^it from the cave's month shining directly in, and 
making the reflection. However, after some pause I recovered myself, 
and. began to call myself a thousand fools, and to think that he that was 
afraid to see the devil was not fit to live twenty y^rs in an island all alone ; 
and that I might well think there was nothmg in this cave that was more 
frightful than myself. Upon this, plucking up my courage, I took up a 
firebrand, and in I rushed again, with the stick flaming in my hand : I had 
not gone three steps in, but I was almost as much fri^itened as I was be- 
fore^ for I heard a very loud sigh, like tiiat of a man in some pain, and it 
was followed by a broken noise, as of words half expressed, and then • 
deep sigh again. I stepped back, and was indeed struck with such a sur- 
prise that it put me into a cold sweat, and if I had had a hat on my bead, 
I will not answer for it that my hair might not have lifted it off. But still 
plucking up my spirits as well as I could, and encouraging myself a little 
with considering that the power and presence of God was every where, 
and was able to protect me, upon this I stepped forward again, and by the 
light of the firebrand, holding it up a little over my head, I saw lying on 
the ground a most monstrous, frightful, old he-goat, just making his will, 
as we say, and gasping for life ; and dying, indeed, of mere old age. I stir- 
red him a little to see if I could get him out, and he essayed to get up, but 
was not able to raise -himself; and I thought with myself he might even 
lie there; for if he had frightened me, so he would certainly fright any of 
the savages, if any one of them should be so hardy as to come in there 
while he had any life to him. 

I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to look round me, 
when I found the cave was but very small, that is to say, it might be about 
twelve feet over, but in no manner of shape, neither round nor square^ no 
hands having ever been employed in making it but those of mere Nature. 
I observed also that there was a place at the farther side of it that went 
in farther, but was so low that it required me to creep upon my hands and 
knees to go into it, and whither it went I knew not : so having no candle, 
I gave it over for that time ; but resolved to come again the next day, 
provided with candles and a tinder-box, which I had made of the lock of 
one of the muskets, with some wild fire in the pan. 
. Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six large candles of my 
own making (for I made very good candles now of goats' tallow, but was 
hard set for candle-wick, using sometimes rags or rope-yam, and some- 
times the dried rind of a weed like nettles); and going into this low place, 
I was obliged to creep upon all fours, as I have said, almost ten yards; 
which, by the way, 1 thought was a venture bold enough, considering 
that I knew not how far it might go, nor what was beyond it. When I 
had got through the strait, I found Uie roof rose higher up, I believe near 
twenty feet; but never was such a glorious sight seen in the island, I dare 
say, as it was, to look round the sides and roof of this vault or cave ; the 
wall reflected an hundred thousand lights to me from my two candles. 
What it was in the rock, whether diamonds, or any other precious stones, 
or gold, which I rather supposed it to be, I knew not. The place I was 
in was a most delightful cavity or grotto of its kind, as could be expected, 
though perfectly dark; the floor was dry and level, and had a sort of a 
9maU loose gravel upon it, so that there was no nauseous or venomous 





-lianthalsi. 

^emanv( 

>*it more e^ 

sides uja: 

iifl iiad 

ivertooL- 

liose Jives 

"ovidence 
■laat I shai' 
t«y are a 
?tween iJ, 
5Terbe v. 
arkable ; 
lai place. 
J believ. 

anxi. 
-as now \ 

OflllA 

to dr. 
igbt oial 

smoke. 

• For 

^ ^ such ; 

^^v-oods; ^^. 

^^onsolaiioj 
' ^tnd when 
l>e so han, 
-vv^ho like n 
The iDo; 
xxiere accit, 
all such I, 
Jjranches t 
tlie reason 
making g ^^ 

live there v. 
ved to burn 
till itbecairi 
ed tl'*''^ 




-> 



^ 




' m 




*-«I 



^ -' rat ^ TThif! i??r?aif tft 






•***.*•« 



10 



::^ itei emiM I 



*T"» 



. :•• 






1? .-5:- 



- — ---f 4»r 



•■^*a> 



C 2X15^ 



CMP* AOBmSON CRIJSOK- (A 

llxrays droned; and these were part of my family. Besides these, I al- 
Waiys kept two or three bonsehold kids about me, whom I taught to feed 
oat of my hand ; and I had two more parrots, which talked pretty well, 
and would alT call Robin Crusoe, but none like my first ; nor, indeed, did 
I take tlie pains with any of them that I bad done witli tiim. t had also 
several tame seafowls, whose names I knew not, (hat I caught upon the 
shore, and cut their win^; and the little stakes which I had planted be- 
Ibre ^y castle wall being now grown up to a good (liick grove, thes^ 
fowls all lived among these low trees, and bred there, which was very 
^^reeafole to roej so that, as I said above, I l)egan to be very well con* 
tented with tlie life I led, if I could have been secured from the dread o^ 
^e savages. But it was otherwise directed ; and it may not be amiss for 
SB piieople wbo shalT meet with my story, to make this just ohservatioD 
#rom it, viz. : How frequently, in the course of our lives, the evil which 
hi itself we seek most to shun, and, which, when we are fallen ifilo, is the 
fkiost dreadfiil to us, is oftentimes the very nieans or door of our delive- 
rance, by which alone we can be raised again from ttie afQiction we are 
fdllen into. I could give many examples of this in the course of my 
unaccountable life ; but in nothing was it more particularly remarkable than 
in the circumstances of my last years of solitary residence in this island. 
It was now the month of Jt)ecember, as I said alwve, in .my twenty^ 
thfrd year; and this, being the southern solstice (for winter I cannot call 
it), was the particular time of my harvest, and required my being pretty 
much abroad in the fields : when goin^ out pretty early in the morning, 
even before it was thorough dsfylight, I Was surprised willi seeing a Hglit 
of some fire upon the siiore at a distance from me of about two miles to- 
wards (he end of the island where I had observed some savages had been, 
as before, and not on the other side ; but, to my great afQiction, it was 
on my side of the island. 

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped short within 
my grove, not daring to go out, lest I might be surprised, and yet I had 
no more peace within, from the apprehensions I had that if tl^se savages^ 
in rambling over the Island, should find my corn standing or cut, or any 
of my works and improvements, they would immediately conclude that 
there were people in the place, and would then never give over till they 
had found me out. In this extremity, I went back directly to my castle, 
polled up the ladder after me, and made all things without look as wild 
and natural as I could. 

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture of defence : 
I loaded all my cannon, as I called them, that is fo say, my^ muskelSj 
which were mounted upon my new fortification, and all my pfstols, and 
Resolved to defend myself to the last gasp ; not forgetting seriously to com- 
mend myself to the divine protection, and earnestly to pray to God to de- 
liver me out of the hands of the barbarians. I continued in this posture 
about two hours; and began to be mighty impatient for intelligence abroad^ 
for I had no spies to send out. After sitting awhile longer, and musing 
what I should do in this case, I was not able to bear sitling in ignorance 
any longer ; so setting up my ladder to the side of the hill, where there was a 
flat place, ds I observed before, land then pulling the ladder after me, I sei i^ 
up again, and mounted to th^ top of the hill ; and pulling out my persp^- 



JOB LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

tive-jB^lass, which I had taken on purpose, I laid me down flat on my belly 
on the ground, and hegan to look for the place. I presently found there 
were no less than nine naked savages, sitting round a small fire they had 
made, not to warm them, for they had no need of that, the weather being 
extremely hot, but, as I supposed, to dress some of their barbarous diet 
of human flesh, which they had brought with them, whether alive or 
dead, I could not tell. 

They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled op upon the 
shore ^ and as it was then tide of ebb, they seemed to me to wait for the re- 
turn of the flood to go away again. It is not easy to imagine what con- 
fusion this sight put me into, especially seeing them come on my. side of 
the island , and so near me too; but when I considered their coming must 
be always with the current of the ebb, I began, afterwards, to be more 
sedate in my mind, being satisfied that I might go abroad with safety all 
the time of the tide of flood, if they were not on shore before : and having 
made this observation, I went abroad about my harvest work with the 
more composure. 

As I expected, so it proved ; for as soon as the tide made to the west- 
ward, I saw them all take boat, and row (or paddle, as we call it) away. 
I should have observed, that for an hour or more before they went off, 
they went a dancing ; and I could easily discern theu* postures and ges- 
tures by my glass. I could not perceive, by my nicest observation, but 
that they were stark naked, and had not the least covering upon them; 
but whether they were men or women, I could not distinguish. 

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two guns upon my 
shoulders, and two pistols in my girdle, and my great sword by my side, 
without a scabbard, and with all the speed I was able to make, went 
away to the hill where I had discovered the first appearance of all ; and 
as soon as I got thither, which was not in less than two hours (for I could 
not go apace, being so loaded with arms as I was), I perceived there had 
been three canoes more of the savages at that place; and looking out far- 
ther, I saw they were all at sea together, making over for the main. 
This was a dreadful sight to me, especiaUy as, going down to the shore, I 
could see the marks of horror wliich the dismal work they had been about 
had left behind it, viz. the blood, the bones, and part of the flesh, of hu- 
man bodies, eaten and devoured by those wretches with merriment and 
sport. I was so filled with indignation at the sight, that I now began to 
premeditate the destruction of the next tliat I saw there, let them be 
whom or how many soever. It seemed evident to me that the visits which 
they made thus to this island were not very frequent, for it was above fif*- 
teen months before any more of them came on shore there again ; that is 
to say, I neither saw them, nor any footsteps or signals of them, in all 
that time ; for, as to the rainy seasons, then they are sure not to come 
abroad, at least not so far : yet all this while I lived uncomfortably, by 
reason of the constant apprehensions of their coming upon me by surprise; 
from whence I observe, that the expectation of evil is more bitter than 
the sufTering, especially if tliere is no room to shake off that expectation, 
or those apprehensions. 

During all tliis time I was in the murdering humour, and took up most 
of my hours, which should have been better employed, incontrivio^ how 



t» ROftmSON GllUSOC. «(M> 

to drcamvetit and fall upon them, the ivery next time I fthotild see them; 
especially i^ ^^^Y should be divided, as they were the last time, into two 
parties : nor did I consider at all, that if I killed one party, suppose ten 
or a dozen, I was slill the next day, or week, or month, to kill another, 
and another, evenadinfinitum, till I shonld be at length no less a murderer 
than they were in being man-eaters, and perhaps much more so. I spent 
my 'days now in great perplexity and anxiety of mind, expecting that I 
should, one day or other, fall into the hands of these merciless creatures ; 
andif Idid at any time venture abroad, it was not without looking round me 
with the greatest care and caution imaginable. And now I found, to my 
great comfort, how happy it was that I had provided a tame flock or herd of 
goafs; for I durst not upon any account, fire my gun, especially near 
that side of the island where they usually came, lest I should alarm the 
savages; and if they had fled from me now, I was sure to have them 
come again, with perhaps two or three hundred canoes with them, in a 
few days, and then I knew what to expect. However, I wore out a year 
and three months more before I ever saw any more of the savages, and 
then I found them again, as I shall soon observe. It is true, they might 
have been there nnce or twice, but either they made no stay, or at least 
I did not see them<: but in the month of May, as near as t could calculate, 
and in my four and twentieth year, I had a very strange encounter with 
tbem ; of which in its place. 

The perturbation of my mind, dnring this fifteen or sixteen months' in- 
terval, was very great; I slept unquiet^ dreamed always frightful dreams, 
and often started out of my sleep in the night : in the day great troubles 
overwhelmed my mind ; and in the night I dreamed often of killing the 
savages, and of the reasons why I might justify the doing of it. But, to 
wave all thus for a while. — ^It was in the middle of May, on the sixteenth 
day, I think, as well as nky poor wooden calendar would reckon, for I 
marked all npon the post still ; I say, it was on the sixteenth of May that 
it blew a very, great storm of wind all day, with a great deal of lightning 
and thunder, and a very foal night it was after it. I knew not what was 
the particular occasion of it, but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken 
np with very serious thoughts about my present condition, I was surprised 
witlv-the noise of a gun, as I thought, fired at sea. This was, to be sure, 
a surprise quite of a dtfiferent nature from any I had met with before ; for 
the notions this put into my thoughts were quite of another kind. 1 start- 
ed up in the greatest haste imaginable, and, m a trice, clapped my lad- 
der to the middle place of the rook, and pulled it after me ; and mount- 
ing it the second time, got to the top of the hill the very moment that a 
flash of fire bid me listen for a second gun, which accordingly, in about 
hsdf a minute, I heard ; and, by the sound, knew that it was from that 
part of the sea where I was driven down the current in my boat. I im- 
mediately considered that this must be some ship in distress, and that 
they had some comrade, or some other ship in company, and fired these 
for signals of distress, and to obtain help. I had the presence of mind, at 
that minute, to think, that though I could not help them, it migiit be 
they might help me; so £ brought together all the dry wood I could get 
at hand, and nuking a good handsome pile, I set it- on fire upon the hill. 
The wimd was dry^ and biased fredy; and though the wind blew very 



hasit y^t it borxied ta^ o^ut^ so ihm I was certaui, if thene wwmf bHck 
Idling ^ a ship, they iixu^ need$ see it, and oo doabt they did ; for afl^ooB 
as ever my lire blazed vp I heard another gitn, aad after titkat se^er^ 
oihers, 9II fro]^ i\^ same qu^t^r* I plied my fire all niglxt Ion|t, till dap 
bre«^; aod when it waiS ^oad day, aiid liie air cleared up, J saw som^ 
^i^m afL a grej4 dislai;ice at sea, fuU eas^ oftiie idand, whether a sail or a 
biuJllcouldnot distingwsh, no^ n^l withmy gla^; the ^stance wasso groat, 
aijid the wearier still soiwlhing hazy also; at least U was so out at set. 
I looked fregueDily ^t it ^\l that day, and soon perceived that it did mil 
vnpyfi', so I presently eonclqded that it was a sliip at anchor; and being 
^^ffv y^ W^ 1^ snrfei, to. b^ satisfted* I took iny gun in nty hand, and 
t^ towarjds tiie soMl>b side of the island,- to the rocks where I bad fiir- 
merlj h^t^ carrieid away wilh th<^ current; and getting op there, the 
^^thei: l^y thi^ Mnae being perfeciUy dear, I could plainly see, to my 
^^at sprrpw, ^e wreck of a ship, e93t away in the night upon Uuise con* 
cieal^d Eoc)^ whioh I found when J w^s oql in my boat ; and which rocks, 
^ Ihey cl)ecke4 the violence of Uie stream, and made a kind of conntep* 
^ream, or eddy, were tlie occasion of my recovering Ahmp tbe most des* 
perate, hopel^ condition tha^ ever I had hew in, in all my life. Thus, 
what is op4^ m^n^& safety is another man's destruction; for it seems these 
mmt whoever they were, being ont of their knowledge, and the rocks 
being wholly under water, had been driven upon them in tlie night, iht 
wind bUi^wi^g haf d al* £*N.£. Had tliey seen the island, as I most ne- 
cessarily suppose they <tid not, they.mu^t as I thou^, have endeavoared 
t^ b4K<^ saved theoiselves on shore by the help of their boat; Inst their 
firing QfifgMn^ for help, espe<cially when they saw, as I imagined, my fire, 
£jle4 me wi^i mjiny thoughts : firsts I imagmed that upon seeing ny 
light, t)i§y mjgl^t have put themselves into their boat, and endeavoared 
^ niake th^ shor^; but tj^at the sea going very high, they might have 
been cast aw^y : other times I imagined that they miglU have lost their 
boat before, asinigbt be the case many ways; as, pairticularly, by the 
peaking of the s^9 upon Iheir sliip, which many times obliged men to 
^a^ye, or i^H in piece^^ their boat, and sometimes to throw it overboard 
"f jti^ their own li^f^rj^ : other Uinies I imagined they had sonae other ship 
or ships in cQiiip^y, who, v^ri the signals of distress they had made, 
lis^ taken tlieip up a^d carried them off : other times I fancied they were 
j^ gone off to sea in their boat, and being hurried away by the current 
i^ai X ba(^ beei( formerly m^ wore carried out into the great ocean) whekre 
d^ere y(a^ nothing but piisery and perishing ; and that, perhaps, they migtal 
Iff this t)ni9 think of starving, and qf being in a condition to eat 6ne an* 

As ^l tk^p ^erg: bat co^yectures at best, so, m the condition I was in, 
Ipouid dpi niQ morfi.lhtMi look on upon the misery of the poor men, and pity 
t|ij3m ; which had still thfs good effect on my side, that it gave me more and 
o^orecau^pi Iq giye .thank^s to God, who had so happily and comibrtably 
grovld/ed for me in my desolate condition ; and that of twoship^s eompanies 
ifho were ntnv cqst ^way upon this part of the world, not one life should 
1^ spared but mine* I learned here again to observe, tlia^ it is very rare 
that the providence of God casts us mto any condition oNiis so low, of 
i^y nomry.fiogreal^ bat we may s^ someibtngor oth^ to bethankAii loir 



OF R(»INSQH CRUSOE. II t 

|ii4 my 9fifi ott\ff4 in worse circomstances thaa oar oxm. Sueh eertaialy 
was the case of these men, of wliom I could not so mach as se^ room to 
appose any ot \!bem were ^ved ; nothing could make it raUonaJ so moch 
fs 10 wish ct* expect that they did not all perish there, except the possibility 
only of their being taken up by another ship in company; and this was bat 
mere possibility indeed^ for I saw not the least sign or appearance of any 
such thing. X cannot explain, by any possible energy of words, what a 
strauge longipg or hankering of desires I felt in my soul upon this sight, 
freaking out sipmetimes Um§ : ^' O thji(l there had been bat one or twa» 
^y, or but oqe soul, saved out of this ship, to have escaped to me, Hiat I 
i^igbt but h<|ve bad one companion, one fellow-creature to bave spokea 
to me, and to have conversed with ! " |p all the time of my solitary life, I 
never felt i*o earnest, so strong a desire after the society of my foUow-^rea- 
tores, or so deep a regret at the want of it. 

There are some secret moving springs in the affections, which, whea 
they are set ^ going by soime object in view, or, though not in view, yet 
rendered present to the mind by the power of imagination, that motit^ii 
carries out the soul, by its impetuosity, to such violent, eager emhracingB 
of tlie object, that the absence of it is insupportable. Such were these 
earnest wishings that but one man had been saved. I believe I repeated 
the words, '^ O that it had been but one ! " a tlioosand times ; and my de^ 
sires were so moyed by it, that when I spoke the words nij hands woald 
clinch together, and my fingers would press the palms of my hands, so 
that if I bad ha4 any sqA Ihing in my hand, it would have croshed it ib- 
voluntarily; and Uie teeth in my head would strike togetlier, and Hi 
gainst one another so strong, that for some time I could not part them . 
s^aw. l^et Uie natur^tists explain theses things, and tlie reason and roaoi 
ner of them : all I can say to them is, to describe the feet, whicli was evea 
sprprisin^ to me, when I liMind it, though I knew not from whence it pro-- 
Q^ed^d : It was doabiless the effect of ardent wishes, and of strong ideas 
kerned in my mind, realizing the comfort whidi the conversation of one 
of my tBlJow-christians would have been lo me.— But it was not to be; 
cith^ their fajte or mine, or both, forbade il : for, till the last year of my 
^tog on this island, I never knew whether any were saved out of that 
ship oc no; and had only the affliction, some, days after, to see the corpse 
of a drowned boy oome on shore at the end of tlie island which was next 
tbe sbipwixck. He had no clothes on but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair of 
<^6Hkaeed linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt; bat nothing to direct 
iiiesomach as to guess what nation he was of; he had nothing in his pock- 
^ bat two pieces-of-eight and a tobaeco-pipe;— the last was to me of ten' 
times more value than the first. 

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in my boat to 
this wreck, not doubting but I might find something on board that might 
he useful to me : bat that did not altogether press me so much as the pos- 
sibility that there might be yet some living creature on board, whose life I* 
might not only save, but might, by saving that life, comfort my own to the * 
laul degree; and this thought clung so to my heart that I could not be quiet 
night or day, but I must venture out in my boat on board this wreck ; 
apd committing the rest to God's providence, I thought the impression 
wu«o^aln»ig opra my adnd^bat it coifld not be resisted, that it mast oomo^ 



1 12 LR^E AND Ai)V£rmjR£$ 

from some invisible direction, and that I should be wanting to myself if 1 
did not go. * ' 

Under the power of this impinssion, I hastened back to my castle, pre- 
pared every thing tor my voyage, took a quantity of bread, a great pot of 
fresh water, a comptiss to steer by, a bottle of rum (for I had still a great 
deal of that lefl), and a basket of raisins; and thus, loading myself with 
every thing necessary, I went down to my boat, got the water out of her, 
put her afloat, loaded all my cargo in her, and then went home again for 
more. My second cargo was a great bag office, the umbrella to set up 
over my head for a shade, another large pot of fresh water, and about two 
dozen of small loaves, or barley-cakes, more than before, with a bottle 
of goat's milk and a cheese : all which, with great labour and sweat, I car- 
ried to my boat; aqd praying to God to direct my voyage, I put out; and 
rowing, or paddling, the canoe along the shore, came at last to the utmost 
point of the island on the north-east side. And now I was to launch out 
into the ocean, and either to venture or not to venture. I looked on the 
rapid currents which ran constantly on both sides of the islandat a distance, 
and which were very terrible to me, from the remembrance of the hazard 
I had been in before, and my heart began to fail me ; for I fore saw that if 
I was driven into either of those currents, I should be carried a great way 
out to sea, and perhaps out of my read), or sight of the island again ; and 
that then, as my boat was but small, if any little gate of wind should ri^, 
I should be inevitably lost. 

These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began to give over my en- 
terprise; and havmg hauled my boat into a little creek on (he shore, I step- 
ped out, and set me down upon a rising bit of ground, very pensive and 
anxious, between fear and desire, ab«ul; my voyage; when, as I was ma-' 
sing, I could perceive that the tide was turned, and the flood come on; 
upon which my going was impracticable for so many hours. Upon this, 
presently it occurred to me, that I should* go up to the highest piece of- 
ground I could find, and observe, if I could, how the sets of the tide, <sr 
currents, lay when the flood came in, that I pfiight judge whether, if I was ' 
driven one way out, I might: not expect to be driven another way hi»nFie, 
with the same rapidness of the currents. This thought was no sooner in 
my head than least my eye upon a little hill, which sufficiently overlook- 
ed the sea both ways, and from whence I had a dear vie\y of the cofrents, 
or sets of the tide, and which way I was to guide mysdf in my velidm. ■ 
Here I foqnd, that as the current of ebb set out dose by the. south point 
of the island, so the current of the flood set in close by the shore' of the^ 
north side; and that I had nothing to do but to keep to the north side of - 
the island in my return, and I should do well enough. i 

Encouraged with this observation, I resolved, the next morning, to set 
out with the flrst of the tide; and reposing myself for the n%ht in my ca- 
noe, under the great watch-coat I mentioned, I launched out. I fii«t 
made a little out to sea, full north, till I began to feel the benefit of the 
current, which set eastward, and which carried me ai a great rate; and i 
yet did not so hurry me as the current on the south side had done befone, 
so as to take from me all government of the boat ; but having a strong . 
sleerage with my paddle, I went at a great rate directly for the wreck, . 
and in less tl^an two hours I came qp to it. It Wiis a dismal sight to look/ 



6P R0BIIS50N CRUSO*. US 

at : ti^e ship, which, by its building, was Spanish, stuck fast, januned in 
between two rocks , all the stern and quarter of her were beaten to 
pieces by the sea; and as her forecastle, which stack in the rocks, 
had run on with great violence, her mainmast and foremast were 
brought by the board, that is to say, broken short off; bat her bow- 
sprit was sound, and the head and bow appeared firm. When I came 
close to her, a dog appeared upon her, who, seeing me coming, yelped 
and cried , and as soon as I called him, jumped into the sea to come to me ; 
I took him into the boat, but found him almost dead with hunger and 
thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread, and he devoured it like a ravenous 
wolf that had been starving a fortnight in the snow : I then gave the poor 
creature some fresh water, with which, if I would have let him, he would 
have burst himself. After this, I went on board ; but the first sight I met 
with was two men drowned in the cookroom, or forecastle of the ship, 
with their arms fast about one another. I concluded, as is indeed probable, 
that when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea broke so high, and 
so continually over her, that the men were not able to bear it, and were 
strangled with the constant rushmg in of the water, as mneh as if they 
had been under water. Besides the dog, there was nothing left in the ship 
that had life; nor any goods, that I could see, but what were spoUed by 
the water. There were some casks of liquor, whether wine or brandy I 
knew not, which lay lower in.the hold, and which, the water being ebbed 
out, I could see ; but they were too big to meddle with. I saw several 
chests, which I believed belonged to some of the seamen ; and I got two of 
them into the boat, without examining what was in them. Had the stern 
of the ship been fixed, and the forepart broken off, I am persuaded I might 
have made a good voyage, for, by what I found in tliese two chests, I had 
room to suppose the ship had a great deal of wealth on board ; and, if I 
may guess from the course she steered, she must have been bound from 
Buenos Ay res, or the Rio de la Plata, in the south part of America, beyond 
the Brazils, to the Havannah, in the Gulf of Mexico, and so perhaps to 
Spain. She had, no doubt, a great treasure in her, but of no use, at that 
time, to any body ; and what became of her crew, I llien knew not. 

I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of liquor, of about twen- 
ty gallons, which I got into my boat with much diffieolty. There were 
several muskets, in the cabin, and a great powder-horn, with about four 
pounds of powder in it ; as for the muskets, I had no occasion for them, 
80 1 left them, but took the powder-horn. I took a fireshovei and tongs, 
which I wanted extremely; as also two little brass kettles, a copper pot to 
make chocolate, and a gridiron : and with this cargo, and the do^:^, I came 
away, the tide beginning to make home again ; and the same evening, 
aliout an hour witliin night, I reached the island again, weary anfd fatigueid 
to the last degree. I reposed that night m the boat ; and in the morning 
I resolved to harbour what I had got in my new eave, and not carry it 
home to my castle. After refreshing myself, I got all my cai^o on shore, 
and began to examine the particulars. The cask of liquor I found to be a 
kind of rum, but not such as we had at the Brazils, and, in a word, not 
at all good ; but when I came to open the chests, I found several thing^of 
great use to me : for example, I found in one a fine case of bottles, of an 
extraordinary kind, and filled with cordial waters, fine and very good j 

8 



^ bM|l|8 ytd 4M«it Itifee piuto eacti, ^d were ti|)i|^ \vith sH^^v. I 
foi^id (^a po(s of very good $ucc^des, oc swea^meats, so fastened also on 
tl^^ iof, ^|ka^ tt^e sa^t w^ite^ ha4 not hurt Uiem; and two more of the same^ 
iHtljuch tbe v(^r had spoU^ I fo^nd some yery good shirts, which wee e 
i^^lf welooi;i|e |a n^; and about a dozen and a half o^ white linen hand- 
li;er<;kie£si «^4 coloiired neckcloths | the former were also very welqoiiie, 
tk^i]^ &ff^p^/^t (e£i:^hin|; to wipe my face m 9, hot day. Besides this, 
\^i^ I oi^pa^ ^ the MH m. the i^esl, I found there thr^e great bags oC 
|AeGfii^9iC^ight, whlQl^ b^d ^b^at eleven hundred pieces in allj andin o^e 
^ ih^i ^j^sKj^jfod, up ia ai y^er, six doubloons of gold, and som^ sm^il 
b^ Of ^^dges 9f gol4; I suppose they might all weigh near a poupd. |a 
this Qtbfr ehfist we^ somi^ clothes, but of litUe value; but, by the circuEp- 
M^QOtfj U ^fp»i have belonged to tM gunner's mate ; though there was no 
DQ^dw 1^ M]i ^cept twjo pounds of fine glazed powder, Iq thr^e small 
IMi^ k^^ I snpppfi^i fo^ chargmg their fowling pifec^ on occasion. 
l^^poA \)fi^ ^1^7 I got veiry little by this voyage that wais of any use to 
p^,; b^^ ayi to A9 mon^y, I had no manner of oc<?asion for it; it was to 
im^^^^ du;t uojder my feet; ^d I would have given it all for three or 
liH^c pap ^ EiUgltsh shoes ajud stoclungs, which w^re things I greatly 
V^M» but had fif^^ on my feet (qt many years. % had mdeed got t\^o 
paii; (^ sbo!^ W>^y mhi/ph i took off the feet o( the two drowned m^n 
wh0fai I si^w in t|he wreck, ax^ I found two pair more in one of the chests, 
irhiph wer^ very welcome to me; but they were not like our l^nglish 
shoes, tttkfi? ^r ease or service^ being rather what we call pumps than 
shoes* I Ij^nd iu this seaman's chest about fifty pieces- of-eight in rials , 
hot no 9(44 : 1 suppose this belonged to a poorer man than the other, 
whiph se^n^^d V> belong to. some officer. Well, however, I lugged this 
BM>i^]r hpme (9 tjoy Cjive, and laid it i^p, as I had done that before which I 
feiraagh^ firom qm pwn ship; but it was a great pity, as I said, that the 
othei? part of thiii ship had not come to my sliare; for I am satisfied I might 
ham loaded m^ canoe several times qvot with money; and thought I, if I 
Qver escape to England, it might lie here safe enough till I ^ay come again 

andlA9h.it. 

Jl^m^mw bi;oilghft^H n^ things 00 shore, and secured them^ Xwent 
^ji(Qk t^oiyboalt, and* ro\$Fed or paddled her along the shore to her old hv- 
kimir, ^jfbere I l^hec up, and made the best c| tfij is?ay to my old haM- 
lltiop, wh(SEe I found every thmg ^e and quiet. I began now to repose 
jp^ll^ U>(e after my old fashion, and take care of my family affau*s > and 
fcr avidMte I livecleas; enough, only that I ^as more vigilant than I used 
1^ he, loglLed out ofienar, aud did not go abroad so much; and if at any 
time I dki stir with any freedom, it was always to the east part of the 
i^od', wb^e I was pi^y well satisfied the savages never came, and 
whoiQ I oould, gQ witU^ut so man; precai^ns, asd such a load of arms 
and i^nmonition as I s^lways carried with me if I went the other w^. 
Kiitedki this condition near two years more; but my unlucky head, thstt 
ms al>iiiip to l^me know it was born to make my body miserable, was 
4U tbttBe two yeais filled with projects and designs, how, if it were possi- 
Uei I might get away from this island :, for, sometunes I was for making 
•Qothoc voyage to the wveek, though my reason told me that there was 
IM»thiog kit tbeq^ worth 0^ tifpfid of lyy voyage; sometimes for a ramble 



OF ROIMSON CaiUSOfi. IIB 

^Mie wffy, flomelitnes aootfaer ; and I bdiete verily, }f I hadhad the boai 
tbat I went from Saiiee in, I should have ventnred to sea, bonnd any 
^here,.I knew not whither. I have been, In all ray drcnnistances, a me- 
•lenlo to those who are to\iched with the fen^ral pla^e of mankind, 
whence, fsr anght I know, one half of their miseries flow; I mean tbat of 
ftUt being satisfied with the station wherein God and nature liath placed 
them : for, not to lo^ back upon my primitive condition, and the ezoellant 
•dvioe of my father, the oppositioii to which was, as I may ^H it, my 
mifinnl sin; my sabaequent mistakes of (he samo kind had been tbe meana 
«f my coming into this miserable condition ; for bad that Proftdenee, whick 
to happily seated me at the Braxils as a planter, blessed me wHh confined 
'<bflires, andiconid have been contented to bavegoneon gradoally, I might 
have been by tliis time,' Imoin in the time of my being in this Mand, one of 
Ihe most considerable (ilanters in the Bratfls; nay, I am penoaded, tbat by 
^ improvements I had made in that little time I lived there, and the in- 
opeSM I dioald probid)ly have made if I had remained, I might have been 
taorth a bnndred thousand moidores : and what business had I lo leave « 
tfMtled fortune, a well stocked plantation improving and increasing, to turn 
iap ara afgo to Gninea to fetch negroes, wh^n padence time and wooM hvft 
ai inereaaed oar stock at home, that we could have bought them at our own 
40or from those whose business it was to fetch them ? and though it bad cost 
m somethhig more, yet the diflRnrenceof that price was by no means worth 
living at so gf«at a hazard. But as this is usually the faie of young beads, so 
feteetion upon the folly of it is as conmionly the exercise of more years, or 
#f the doir-bought experienee of time : so it was with me now ; and yot 90 
deep had the mistake taken root in myiemper, that I could not aatirfy my* 
oeirfnmy i^tion, but was continually poring upon the means add possibi- 
lity of my escape from this place : and that I may, with the greater pleasure 
to the reader, bring on the reniainiBg part of my story, it May not be in- 

C>per to i^e some account of my first conceptions on the subject of this 
11^ sicheme for my escape, and bow, and up^ what foundation I acud. 

t am hmr f» be supposed' retired into my cattle, after my late voyage 
to the wre^, my frigate laid up and secur^ under water, as usual, and 
0^ eeodiUon restored to what it was before ,* I bad mere wealthy indeed, 
0m I had before, but was not at alt the richer^ for I had no more «ae 
t» it than fk% IndiAns of Peru had before (he Spaniards eame there. 

It was one of the nights in the rainy season in lliareh, the four and 
iWintieA ye«r of my first setthigfoot in this Island of solitude, I was 
lyin^ in my b^ of hammock, awake; very weH in health, had no pain, 
a» distemper, nounetsiness of body, nor any unearitiesa of mind, more 
^an ordinary, but could by n^ means close ifty eyes, thit is, so as to sleq^ 
fid, not a wink all night lung, otherwise than as follows :— It is impossihte 
la aet down the innumerable crowd 6f thoughts that whirled through that 
freat ihdhHighftre of the brain, the memory, in this night's time : I ran 
iver the whole history of my life, in miniature, or by abridgment, as I 
ttay eaH it, to my coming to this island, and' also of that part of my life 
sinee I came to this island. In my reflections tipon the stalb of my caM 
^oe I came on shore on this island, I was comparing the happy posture 
of my aflbffs in the first years of my habitation here, compared to the life 
itmd^Yf fear; andearc; irhieh I had liv^ eter since I bad eeen the 



118 UFE AND ABVENTURES 

print of a foot in the sand ; not that I d!d not believe the savages had fre- 
quented the Island even all the while, and might have been several hun- 
dreds of them at times on shore there; but I had never known it, and 
was incapable of any apprehensions about it ; my satisfaction was perfect, 
though my danger was the same, and I was as happy in not knowing my 
danger as if I had never really been exposed to it. This furnished my 
thoughts with many very profitable reflections, and particularly this one : 
How infinitely good tliat Providence is, which has provided, in its go- 
vernment of mankind, such narrow bounds to his sight and knowledge of 
things ; and though he walks in the midst of so many thousand dangers, 
the sight of which, if discovered to him, would distract his mind and 
sink his spirits, he is kept serene and calm, by having the events of things 
hid from his eyes, and knowing nothing of the dangers which surround him. 

After these thoujchts had for some time entertained me, I came to re- 
flect seriously upon the real danger I had been in for so many years in 
this very island, and how I had walked about in the greatest security, 
and witti all possible tranquillity, even when perhaps nothing but the 
brow of a hill, a great tree, or the casual approach of night, had been 
between me and the worst kind of destruction, viz. that of falling into the 
hands of cannibals and savages, who would have seized on me with the 
same view as I would on a goat or a turtle, and have thought it no more 
a crime to kill and devour me, than I did of a pigeon or a curlew. I 
would unjustly sknder myself, if I should say I was not sincerely thankful 
to my great Preserver, to who^e singular protection I acknowledged, with 
great humility, all these unknown deliverances were due, and without 
which I must inevitably have fallen into their merciless hands. 

When these thoughts were over, my head was for some time taken up 
in considering the nature of these wretched creatures, I mean the savages, 
and how it came to pass in the world, that the wise Governor of all things 
should give up any of his ereatures to such inhumanity, nay, to something 
so much below even brutality itself, as to devour its own kind : but as this 
ended in some (at that time) fruitless speculations, it occurred to me to 
inquire, what part of the world these wretches lived in? how &r off the 
coast was firom whence they came ? what they ventured over so far from 
home for ? what kind of boats they had ? and why I might not order myself 
and my business so, that I might be as able to go over thither, as they 
were to come to me? 

I never so much as troubled myself to consider what I should do vdth 
myself when I went thither; what would become of me if I fell into the 
hands of the savages; or how I should escape them if they attacked me; 
BO, nor so much al how it was possible for me to reach the coast, and not 
be attacked by some or other of them, without any possibility of delivering 
myself; and if I shoukl not fall into their hands, what I should do for 
provision, or whither I should bend my course : none of these thoughts, I 
say, so much as came in my way ; but my mind was wholly bent upon 
the notion of my passing over in my boat to the main land. I looked upon 
my present condition as the most miserable that could possibly be; tliat I 
was not able to throw myself into anything but death, that could be called 
worse; and if I reached the shore of the main, I might perhaps meet with 
relief, or I might coast along, as I did on the African shore, till I came to 



— . ^1 



OF ROBINSON C&USOE. 117 

some inhabited country, and where I might find some relief; and after 
all, perhaps I might fall in with some Christian ship that might take me 
in ; and if the worst came to the worst, I could but die, whieh would put 
an end to all these miseries at once. Pray note, all this was the fruit of 
a disturbed mind, an impatient temper, made desperate as it were, by the 
long continuance of my troubles, and the disappointments I had met in 
the wreck I had been on board of, and where I had been so near obtaining 
what I so earnestly longed for, viz. somebody to speak to, and to leam 
some knowledge from them of the place where I was, and of the probable 
means of my deliveranqe. I was agitated wholly by these thoughts ; all 
my calm of mind, in my resignation to Providence, and waiting the issue 
of the dispositions of Heaven, seemed to be suspended; and I had, as it 
were, no power to turn my thoughts to anythmg but to the project of a 
voyage to the main, which came upon me with such force, and such an 
impetuosity of desire, that it was not to be resisted. 

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or more, with such 
violence that it set my very blood into a ferment, and my pulse beat as if 
I had been in a fever, merely with the extraordinary fervour of my mind 
about it, nature, as if I had been fatigued and exhausted with the very 
thoughts of it, threw me into a sound sleep. One would have thought I 
should have dreamed of it, but I did not, nor of any thing relating to it: 
but I dreamed that as I was going out in the morning as usual, from my 
castle, I saw upon the shore two canoes and eleven savages, coming to 
land, and that they brought with them another savage, whom they were 
going to kill, in order to eat him; when, on a sudden, the savage that 
they were going to kill jumped away, and ran for his life ; and I thought, in 
my sleep, that he came running into my little thick grove before my for- 
tification, to hide himself; and that I, seeing him alone, and not perceiving 
that the others sought him that way, showed myself to him, and smiling 
upon him, encouraged him : that he kneeled down to me, seeming to pray 
me to assist him; upon which I showed him my ladder, made bun go up, 
and carried him into my cave, and he became my servant : and that as 
soon as I had got this man, I said to myself, ^^Now I may certainly ven- 
ture to the main land, for this fellow will serve me as a pilot, and will teU 
me what to do, and whither to go for provisions, and whither not to go 
for fear of being devoured ; what places to venture into and what to shun." 
I waked with this thought; and was under such inexpressible unpressions 
of joy at the prospect of my escape in my dream, that the disappointments 
which I felt upon coming to myself, and finding that it was no more than 
a dream, were equally extravagant the other way, and threw me into a 
very great dejection of spirits. 

Upon this, however, I made this conclusion ; that my only way to go 
about tq attempt an escape was, if possible, to get a savage into my pos- 
session; and, if possible, it should be one of their prisoners whom they 
had condemned to be eaten, and should bring hither to kill. But these 
thoughts still were attended with this difficulty, that it was impossible to 
effect this wilhoutattacking a whole caravan of tUem, and killing them all; 
and this was not only a very desperate attempt, and might miscarry; but, 
on the other hand, I had greatly scrupled the lawfulness of it to myself; 
and my heart trembled at the thoughte of shedding so much Mood, though . 



118 LIFE AND ABVtirnASS 

H was tor tny Miterance. I ne^gfl not r^at fhe argimiettts yr\AA d(i» 
enrred lo me against this, they heihg tlve saime mei^ioned before : btii 
tiraugh I had otlter reasons to offer now, vis. that those men were ehemi^ 
fo my life, and woald devonr me if they eouM ; that it was self-pfeservt^ 
lion, in ibe liighest degree, to deliver myseVf fh)m thb'death of a life, and 
was acting in my own defence as mqeh as if they Were actnally assanltiil^ 
Ale, and the lilie;Isay, though these things argued for it, yet the thoughts 
of shedding human blood for my deliverance were very terrible to me, 
and such as I could by no means reconcile myself to for a great while, 
fiowever, at last, alter many secret disputes with myself, and alter gresil 
perplexites about it (for all these arguments, one way and another, strug* 
gled in my head a long time), the eager prevailing desire of deliverance at 
length mastered all the rest; and I resolved, if possible, to get one of thold 
savages into my hands, cost what it would. "My next thing was to (ioh- 
trive how to do it, and this indeed Was very difficult to resolve on : hot ai 
I could pilch Upoh no probable means for it, so I resolved to put myself 
upon the watch^ to see them when they came on shore, and leave the reit 
Id the event ; taking such measures as the opporttinity siiould present, lei 
What would be. 

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself upon the scotit 
a& often as possible^ and indeed so often, that I was heartily thred of it; 
for it wai above a yeir and a half that I vraited ; and for great part of th^t 
t&ne went out to the west end, and to the south west Corner of the islani 
almost etery day, to look for canoes, but none appeared. This was yery 
cKscouraging, and began to trouble me much, though I cannot say tliat B 
did in this ca^e (as it had done some time before) wear off the edge Of my 
desire to the thing ; but the longer \t seamed to be delayed, the more eage^ 
I was for it : in a word, I was not at first so careful to shun the sight of 
these savages, and avoid being seen by them, as I was flow eager to be 
ut)on them. Besides, t fancied myself able to manage one, nay, two of 
three savages, if I had them, so as to make them entirely slaves to me, 
to do whatever t shouM direct them, and to prevent their being able at 
any time to do me any hurt. It was a great while that I pleased myself 
with this affair; but nothing still presented; all my foncies and scheines 
came to flolhing, for no savages came near me for a great while. 

About a year and a half after I entertained these notions (and by long 
musing batf, as it Were, resolved them all into nothing, for want Of aa 
occasion to ^nt them into execution), I was surprised one morning early„ 
with seeing ho less than five canoes all on sliore together on my side the 
island, and the people who belonged to them all lauded, and out of my 
sight. The number of them broke all my measures; for Seeing so many, 
and knowbg that they always came four or six, or sometimes more in a 
boat, I couM not tell what to think of it, or how to take my measures, td 
attack twenty or thirty men single handed ; so lay still in my castle per-* 
plexed and discomforted : However, I put myself into all the same postures 
for an attack that I had formerly provided, and was just ready for action, 
if any thing had presented. Having waited a good while, listening to hear 
if they made any noise, at length, being very impatient, I set my guns at 
the foot of my ladder, and clambered up to the top of the hill, by my two 
strifes, as usual; standing so, however, that-diy head did not appear iSkyf^ 



<Mf lOmSON GEUSOE* lit 

tli« billy m thftt lh«7 could not perceive am hf any mettM* Here I •!»• 
served, by the belp of my penpectiitt glate, tbal Ibey were bo less tbao 
thirty in number; that they had a' fire kindled^ and that they had meat 
ciressed. How they fa^ cooked it I knew not^ er what it was; but they 
were all dancing^ In I know Aot how many barbaroiMftsCiirea and fignreSf 
tj^ir own w»y, round the fire. 

While I was thni looking on then, I pereeiTftd, by ray porspeetitOy tir# 
mia^rable wnetches dragged from the boats, whcrOy it aeems, they wera 
laid by, and were now forotght out for the idanghtef. I peroeived one of 
them immediately fell, being knocked dptrn I auppoic «ntt| t dob or wood- 
en sword, for that w:a8 their way, mk two or^tbrce others were at woric 
immcidiately, entting him open for their cookery, while the ether victim 
was left staffing by hhneelf, till they should be leady for him. In thai 
very moment, this poor wreteh seeing himself a Htitle at lyterty, end qih 
bonnd, nature inspired him with hc^s of life, and he started away Arona 
them, and ran with incredible swiftness along the sands, dfamlly towards 
me j I mean, towards that part of the coast where my habitation was* I 
was dreadftilly Frightened, I most acknowledge, when I perceiTed hbn 
mnmy way, and especially when, as I thoaght, I saw bten porsnCd by 
the whole body: and now I expected thai part of ny dremn wesoominf 
to pass, and that he would certahily take shelter in my grove : bnt I could 
not depend, by any means, apotif my dream for the rest of it, vis. that the 
other savages would not pursue him thither, and find him there. How* 
ever, I kept my station, and my spirils befpai to recover whan I ftwnd 
that there te^as not above three men that followed him ; and still more was 
I encouraged when I found that he outstripped them exneedini^y in nm*' 
Aing, atid gained ground of them; so that if he oootd bnt bold it for half 
an hour, I saw easily he would fairly get away fkem them alh 

There was between them and my oasUe the creek, wshfch I mentioned d^ 
ten in tlie first part of toiy'story , where I landed my cai^oes ont of the ship ) 
and this I saw plainly he must fiecessarily swim over, or the poor wietcb 
would be taken there : bnt when the savage escaping came Ibfther, he made 
nothingof it, though the tide was then up | but plunging in, swam throogh in 
abojQt thiny strokes, or thereabouts, landed, a&d ran on with eiee^Uag 
stfefigthand swiftness. When the three persons cime lo the creek) I fonnd 
that two of ihem could swun, but the third could not, and thkt standing on 
the other side, he looked at the others, but went no farther, and soon after 
went softly back again ; which, as it happened, was very well for him in the 
end. I observed that the two who swam were yamore than twice as long 
swinoming over the creek, as the fdlow was that fled from them. It came 
now very warmly upon my thoughto, and indeed iitesistiUy, tbift now was 
the time to get me e servant, and perhaps a companion or assistant, end ttat 
I was plainly called by Providence to save this poor creature's life. I immo*- 
diately ran down the ladders with all possible expeditiDn, fotehed my twe 
gmi8,^for they vrere both at the foot of the ladder, as I observed befot% and 
gettii^ up again with the same haste to the top of the bill, I crossed tewarAi 
the sea, and having a very short cut, and all down bill, placed myself in the 
way between the parsuers and the pursued, balloon^ aloud to him thai 
fled, who, looking back, was at first perhaps as much fri^ilened at me as 
at them; b6t I beckoned with my hand to him to come back; and in ibe 



m UFE AND ADVENTURES 

mean time I slowly advanced towards the two that followed; then rushing 
at otice npon the foremost, I knocked him down with the stock of my 
piece. I was loath to fire, hecaose I would not have the rest hear ; 
though, at that distance, it would not have been easily h^ard, and being 
out of sight of the smoke too, they would not have easily known what to 
make of it. Having knocked this fellow down, the other who pursued 
him stopped, as if he had been frightened, and I advanced apace towards 
him : but as I came nearer, I perceived presently he had a bow and ar- 
row, and was fitting it to shoot at me ; so I was then necessitated to shoot 
at him first, which I did, and killed him at the first shot. The poor sa- 
vage who fled, but had stopped, though he saw both his enemies fallen 
and killed, as he thought, yet was so frightened with the fire and noise of 
my piece, that he stood stock still, apd neither came forward nor went 
backward, though he seemed rather inclined still to fly than to come on. 
I hallooed again to him, and made signs to come forward, which he ea- 
sily understood, and came a little way; tlien stopped again, and then a 
little farther, and slopped again ; and I conld then perceive that he stood 
trembling, as if he had been taken prisoner, and had just been to be 
killed, as his two enemies were. I beckoned to him again to come to me, 
and gave him all the signs of encouragement that I could think of; and 
he came nearer and nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in 
token of acknowledgment for saving his life. I smiled at him and looked 
pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come still nearer : at length he came 
close to me; and then he kneeled down again, kissed the ground, and 
iaid his head upon the ground, and talking me by the foot, set my foot 
upon his head ; this it seems was in token of swearing to be my slave for 
ever. I took him up, and made much of him, and encouraged him all I 
could. But there was more work to do yet ; for I perceived the savage 
whom I knocked down was not killed, but stunned with the blow, ami 
b^an to come to himself: so I pointed to him, and showed him the sa- 
vage, that he was not dead ; upon this he spoke some words to me, and 
though I could not understand them, yet I thought they were pleasant to 
hear; for they were the first sound of a man's voice that I had heard, my 
own excepted for above twenty-five years. But there was no lime for 
such reflections now ; the savage who was knocked down recovered him- 
self so far as to sit up upon the ground, and I perceived that my savage 
began to be afk*aid; but when I saw that, I presented my other piece at 
4he man, as if I would shoot him : upon Uiis my savage, for so I call him 
now, made a motion to me to lend him my sword, which hung naked in 
a belt by my side, which I did. He no sooner had it, but he runs to his 
enemy, and, at one blow, cut off his head so cleverly, no executioner in 
Germany could have done it sooner or better; which I thought very 
atrange for one who, I had reason to believe, never saw a sword in his 
life before, except their own wooden swords : however, it seems, as I 
learned afterwards, they make their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, 
and the wood is so bard, that they will even cut off heads with them, ay, 
and armsj and that at one blow too. When he had done this, he conies 
laughing to me in sign of triumph, and brought me the sword again, and 
with abundance of gestures which I did not understand, laid it down, 
With the head of the savage that he had killed, just before me. But that 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. fSI 

which astonished him most, was to know how I killed the other Indian 
so far off : so pointing to him, he made siRns to me to let him go to him; 
80 I bade him go, as well as I oould« When he came to him, he stood 
like one amazed, looking at him, turning him first on one side, then on 
the other, looked at the woand the bullet had made, which, it seems was 
jast in his breast, where it had made a bole, and no great quantity of blood 
had followed ; but he had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead. He 
took up his bow and arrows, and came back ; so I turned to go away, 
and beckoned him to follow me, making signs to him that more might 
come after them. Upon this, he made signs to me that he should bury 
tbeni with sand, that they might not be seen by the rest, if they followed; 
and so I made signs to him again to do so. He fell to work ; and in an 
iustant he had scraped a hole in the sand with his hands, bi^ enough to 
bury the first in, and then dragged him into it, and covered him; and did 
so by the other also : I believe he had buried them both in a quarter of 
an hour. Then calling him away, I carried him, not to my castle, but 
quite away to my cave, on the farther part of the island : so I did not let 
my dream come to pass in that part, viz. that he came mto my grove for 
shelter. Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat, and a 
draught of water, which I found he was indeed in great distress for, by 
his running ; and having refreshed him, I made signs fur him to go and 
lie down to sleep, showing him a place where I had laid some rice straw, 
and a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep upon myself sometimes; so 
the poor creature lay down, and went to sleep. 

Ite was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well made, with straight 
strong limbs, not too large, tall and well shaped ; and, as I reckon, about 
twenty-six years of age. He had a very good countenance, not a fierce 
and surly aspect, but seemed to have something very manly in his face; 
and yet he had all the sweetness and softness of an European in his coun- 
tenance too, especially when he smiled. His hair was long and black, 
not curled like wool ; his foroliead very high and large; and a great viva- 
city and sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The colour of his skin was not 
quite black, but very tawny ; and yet not an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny, 
as the Brazilians and Virginians, and other natives of America are, but of 
a bright kind of a dun olive colour, tliat had in it something very agreea- 
ble, though not very easy to describe. His face was round and plump ; 
liis nose small, not flat like the Negroes ; a very good mouth, thin lips, and 
his fine teeth well set, and as white as ivory. 

After he had slumbered, rather than slept, about half an hour, he 
awoke again, and came out of the cave to me, for I had been milking my 
goats, which I had in the enclosure just by : when he espied me, 
he came running to me, laying himself down again upon the ground » 
with all the possible signs of an humble thankful disposition, making 
a great many antic gestures to show it. At last, he lays his head 
flat upon the ground, close to my foot, and sets my other foot upon 
his head, as he had done before ; and after this, made all the signs 
to me of subjection, servitude, and submission, imaginable, to let me 
know how he would serve me so long as he lived. I understood him in 
many things, and let him know I was very well pleased with him. In a 
little time I began to speak to him, and teach him to speak to me; and 



Ill UFfi AND AlfTENPfORES 

lint t let hkn know his name shonld be Fridat, which WAS the ddy I 
saved hU life : I called him m for the menoory lyf the time. I likewise 
taoglit him to say Master ; and then let him know that waste he my namet 
I likewise taaght him to say Yes and* No, and to know the meaning of 
them. I gave him some milk in an earlhen pot, and let him see me drink 
it hetbte him, and sop my bread in it; and gave him a cake of bread to di9 
the like, which he quickly complied with, and made signs that it wtt 
very good for him. I kept there with him all that night ; bot as soon as 
it was day, I beckoned to hun to come with me, and let him know I 
wodh] give him some clothes; at which he seemed, very glad, for be was 
stark naked. As we went by the place where he had bnried the two men^ 
he pointed exactly to the place, and showed me the marks that he ha4 
made to find them again, making signs to me that we should dig them ap 
again, and eat them. At this I appeared very angry, expressed my abhoN 
rence of it, made as if I would vomit at the thoughts of it, and beckoned 
with my hand to him to come away; which he didimmediaiely, with great 
submission. I then led him up to the top of the hill , to see if his ene-^ 
mies were gone; and pulling out my glass, I looked, and saw plainly the 
place where they had been, but no appearance of them or thdr canoes; 
so that it was plain they were gone, and had left their two comrades be-^ 
hind them, without any search after them. 

But I was not content with the discovery; but having now mturt tm*- 
rage, and consequently more cariosity, I look my man Friday with iM 
giving him the sword in hishsmd,. with the bow and arrows at his blusk, 
which I found he could use very dexterously, making him carry one gun 
ibr me, and I two for myself; and away we marched to the place where 
these creatures had been ; for I had a mind now to get some fuller intellf-* 
gence of them. When I came to the place, my very blood ran chill in my 
veins, and my heart sunk within me, at the horror of the spectlele; in* 
deed, it was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to me, though Friday made 
nothing of it. The place was covered with human bones, the ground 
dyed with their blood, and great pieces of flesh left here and there, half 
eaten, mangled and scorched ; and, in short, all the tokens of the tri- 
umphafit f^ast they had been making there, after a victory over their en- 
emies. I saw three skulls, five hands, and the bones of three or foar 
legs and feet^and abundance of other parts of^e bodies; and Friday, by 
his signs, made me understand that they brought over four prisoners to 
feast upon ; that three of them were eaten up, and that he, pointing td 
himself, was the fourth; that there had been a great battle between them 
and their next king, of whose subjects, it seems, he had been one, and 
that they had taken a great number of prisoners ; all which were carried to 
several places by those whohad taken tliem in the fight, in order to feast npoA 
tliem, as was done here by the wretehes upon those they brought hither. 

I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh, and whatever re* 
mained, and lay them together in a heap, and make a great fire upon ft, 
and bum them all to ashes. I found Friday had still a hankering sfto* 
mach after some of the flesh, and was still a cannibal in his nature ; but I 
discovered so much abhorrence at the very tlioughts of it, and at the least 
appearance of it, that he durst not discover it : for I had, by some mlans, 
let him know that I would kill him, if he offered it. 



Of BOBimcM CAtJsoe. m 

When be had done thhi, we came back to oar castle ; and ihefe t Ml to 
work tir itiy miin Friday ; and first of all j I gave him a pair of linen draw^ 
ffB, which 1 had out of tte poor gunner's chest I mentioned, which t 
h^M in the wreck; and which, with a little alteration, fitted him teiT 
well; and then I made him a Jerkin of goat'9 skin, as welt as my skllt 
would allow (for I wiis now grown a tolerable good tailor}; and I gtifB 
him a cap which I made of hare's skin, very convenient, and faaliionabto 
enough r and thds he was detlted for the present tolerably well, and wts 
mighty well plesned to see himself almost as well clothed as his master. 
It is Irae^he went awkwardly in these clothes at first; wearing the draweni 
Was very awkward to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat galled hii 
shoulders, and the inside of his arms ; bat a little easing them where he 
complained they hart hun, and using himself to them, he took to theitt 
at length very well. 

The next day after I came hone to my hatch with him, I began to cot^ 
aider where I should lodge him ; and that I might do well for him, and 
yet be perfectly easy myself, I made a little tent for him in the vacant 
place between my two^ fortifications, in the inside of the last, and in the 
ontside of the first. As there was a door or entrance there hitomy cave, I 
made a formal framed door case, and a door to it of boards, and set it np iu 
the passage, a fittle within the entrance ; and causing the door to open it 
the inside, t barred it up in the night, taking in my ladders too; so that 
Friday oould noway come at mo in the inside of my innermost wall, with* 
oale making so much noise in getting over that it mnst needs waken me ; for 
my first waH had now a complete roof over it of long poles, covering all 
my tent, and leaning up to the side of the hill ; which was again laid 
aeroas with smaller sticks, instead of laths, and then thatched over a great 
thickness with the rice straw, which was strong, like reeds; and at the hole 
or place which was left to go in or ont by the ladder, I had placed a kind 
of trapdoor, which, if it had been attempted on the outside, would not 
have opened at all, but would have fallen down and made a great noise : 
ai to weapons, I took them all into my side every night. But I needed 
none of all this precaution; for never man had a more faithful, loving, sin- 
iNire servant than Friday was to me ; without passions, sullenness, or de- 
signs, perftoly obliged and engaged ; his very affections were tied to me. 
itke those of a child to a father ; and I dare say he would have sacrificed 
hts life for the saving mine, upon any occasion whatsoever : the many tes- 
ifldonies he gave me of this put it out of doubt, and soon convinced me 
diat I needed to use no precautions, as to my safety on his account. 

Thia lireqaently gave me occasion to observe, and that with wonder, 
tihat however it had pleased God, in his providence, and in the government 
of the Wwks of his hands, to take l^m so great a part of the world of hh 
Matnres the best Uses to which their faculties and the powers of thehr 
aools are adapted, yet that he has bestowed upon them the same powers, 
the same reason, the same affections, the same sentiments of kindness and 
obligation, the same passions and resentments of wrongs, the same sense of 
gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all the capacities of doing good, and receiv- 
hig good, that he has given to us ; and that when he pleases to offer them 
occtsions of exerting these, they are as ready, nay, more ready, to apply 
tiietti 1^ the right uses for whidi they were bestowed, than we are. This 



f24 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

made me very melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, as the several occasions 
presented, how mean a use we make of all these, even though we have these 
powers enlightened by the great lamp of instruction, the Spirit of God, and 
by the knowledge of his word added to our understanding ; and why it has 
pleased God to bide the like saving knowledge from so many millions of 
souls, who, if I might judge by this poor savage, would make a much better 
use of it than we did. From hence, I sometimes was led too far, to invade 
the sovereignty of Providence, and, as it were, arraign the justice of so ar- 
bitrary a disposition of things, that should bide that light from some^ and 
reveal it to others, and yet expect a like duty from both; but I shut it up, 
and checked my thoughts with this conclusion: first, That we did not know 
by what light and law these should be condemned; but thai as God was 
necessarily, and, by the nature of his being, infinitely holy an4 just, so it 
could not be, but if these creatures w^ere all sentenced to absence from 
himself, it was on account of sin^ng against that light, which, as (he Scrip- 
ture says, was a law to themselves, and by such rules as their consciences 
would acknowledge to be just, though the foundation was not discovered 
to us; and secondly, That still, as we all are the clay in the hand of the 
potter, no vessel could say to him, ^' Why blast thou formed me thus ? " 

But to return to my new companion : — ^I was greatly delighted with 
him, and made it my business to teach him every thing that was proper to 
make him useful, handy, and helpful ; hut especially to make him speak, 
and understand me when I spoke : and he was the aptest scholar that ever 
was.; and particularly was so merry, so constantly diligent, and so plea^ 
when he could but understand me, or make me understand him, that it 
was very pleasant to me to talk to him. Now my life began to be so easy 
that I began to say to myself, that could I but have been safe from more 
savages, I cared not if I was never to remove from the place where I lived. 

After I had been two or three days returned to my castle, I thought that, 
in order to bring Friday off from bis horrid way of feeding, and from the 
relish of a cannibars stomach, I ought to let him taste other flesh; so t 
took him out with me one morning to the woods. I went, indeed, intending 
to kill a kid out of my own flock, and bring it home and dress it; but aa I 
was going, I saw a she goat lying down in the shade, and two young kids 
sitting by her. I catched hold of Friday ;— Hold, said I, stand still; and 
made signs to him not to stir : immediately I presented my piece, shot, and 
killed one of the kids. The poor creature, who had, at a distance, indeed, 
seen me kill the savage, his enemy, but did not know, nor could imagine 
how it was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled and shook, and looked 
so amazed that I thought he would have snnk down. He did not see the 
kid I shot at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat, to fed 
whether he was not wounded ; and as I found presently, thon;tbt I was 
resolved to kill him : for he came and kneeled down to me, and embracing 
my knees, said a greatmany things I did not understand; but I could easily 
see the meaning was, to pray me not to kill him. 

I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him no harm ; and 
taking him up by the hand, laughed at him, and pointing to the kid which 
I had killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he did : and while 
he was wondering, and looking to see how the creature was killed, I loaded 
my gun a^ain. By and by I saw a great fowl, like a hawkt sittmg upon 



Ot ROfimSON CKUSOli. lis 

a tree ^rithin shbt; so, to lei Friday understand a little what I wonld do, 
I called him to me again, pointed at the fowl, which was indeed a )>arrot, 
though I thought it had been a hawk ; I say, pointing to the parrot, and 
to my gun, and to the ground under the parrot, to let him see I would make 
it fall, I made him understand that I would shoot and kill that bird; ac- 
cordingly I fired, and bade-him look, and immediately he saw the parrot 
£ill. He stood like one frightened again, notwithstanding all I had said 
to him ; and I found he was the more amazed, because he did not see me 
put anything into the gun, but thought that there must be some wonderfol 
ftind of death and destruction in that thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, 
or anything near or far off ; and the astonishment this created in him was 
such as could not wear off for a long time; and, I believe, if I would hare 
let him, he would have worshiped me and my gun. As for the gun itself, 
he -would not so much as touch it for several days after; but he wouM 
speak to it, and talk to it, as if it had answered him, when he was by him- 
self ; which, as I afterwards learned of hinfr, was to desire it not to kill him. 
Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this, I pointed to him to 
run and fetch the bird I had shot, which he did, but staid some time; for 
the parrot, notl)eing quite dead, had fluttered away a good distance from 
the place where she fell : however, he fbnnd her, took her up, and brought 
her to me; and as I had perceived his ignorance about the irnn before, I 
took this advantage to charge the gtm again, and not to let him see me do 
It, that I might be ready for any otlier mariL that might present ; but nothing 
more offered at that time : so I brought home the kid, and the same evening 
I took the skin off, and cut it out as well as I could ; and having a pot fit 
for that purpose, I boiled or stewed some of the flesh, and made some very 
good broth. After Iliad begun toeatsome, I gave some to my man, who 
seemed very glad of it, and liked it very well ; but that which was strangest 
to him was to see me eat salt with it. He made a sign to me that the salt 
was not good to eat ; and putting a little into his own mouth, he seemed to 
nauseate it, and would spit and sputter at it, washing his mouth with fresh 
water after it : on the other hand, I took some meat into my mouth without 
salt, and I pretended to spit and sputter for want ofsalt, as fast as he had 
done at the salt ; but it would not do ; he would never care for salt with his 
meat or in his broth; at least not for a great while, and then but avery little. 
Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was resolved to feast 
him the next day with roasting a piece of the kid : this I did by hanging 
it before the fire on a strmg, as I had seen many people do in England, set- 
ting two poles up, one on each side of the fire, and one across on the top, 
and tying the string to the cross stick, letting the meat turn continually. 
This Friday admired very much; but when he came to taste the flesh, he 
took so many ways to tell me how well he liked it, that I could not but 
understand him : and at last he told me, as well as he could, he would 
never eat man's flesh any more, which I was very glad to hear. 

The next day, I set him to work at healing some corn out, and sifting 
it in the manner I used to do, as I observed before ; and he soon under- 
stood how to do it as well as I, especially after he had seen what the 
meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of; for after that I let 
him see me make my bread, and bake it too ; and in a little time Friday 
was able to do all the work for me, as well as I could do it myself. 



116 LtTE ANB ADTtNTtJitfiS 

I began new to consider, that having two moolhs to feed iaatoid «f 
fttie, I must provide more ground for my harvest, and plant a larger 
qaantity of corn than I used to do ,; so I mark^ out a larger piece of land, 
Knd hegan the fence ia the samemadper ashefore, in which Friday 
worked not only very willingly and very hard, hut «yd it very qheerfiilly : 
9iid I told him what it wfis for ; Miat it was for corn t» inakji raope bi«ad, 
hepanse he was nom wiHi me; and that I ought have enough lor himmd 
pyself too. He appeared very sensible of that part, and lei ine kmow 
thai he thooght I bad nmch more labour upon me on Us aoemnt^ than I 
1^ for myself; and that he would wodL the harder for me^ if I wmiid 
fell him what to do. 

This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led m this plaee; FiUaf 
jiagan to talk pretty well, and understand the wimes of aiiDMt every thing 
I had oqcasion lo oill for, and of every place I had4o send him tOi and 
tiijlced a great deal to me; so that, Ui shod, I beg^ npw to have sMpe 
sue for my tongue again, whtph; indeed, I had very little oeeaaioa for 
]m^9, that is to say, about speei^. Besides the pleasure of talkii^ to 
bim, I had a sii^ular satisfaction in the fellow hiaiself ; his simple n»- 
fingn^ honesty appeared to me more and more every day, and i bagaii 
fttally to love the creatpre; and, en his side, I believe he loved me mwe 
than it was possible for hini ever to love any thmg hefere. 

I bad a mind once to try il be had any hankering induiaiion to his 
4mn comUry again; and having taught him English so well thai he could 
im^w^ mp almost any questioi], I asked bun whether the nation that he 
liisloiiged to never conquered in battle ? At whiob he snulod, and aaid, 
*'^^ y^> we always fight tlie better :" that is, he meant, alwayn gat 
d^ b^Uer in light ; and so we began the following discourse : 

Mofiier, You always lig^ die better; how came yon In be Mften pil^ 
foner then, Friday? 

FridBf^, My natimt beat much for all that. 

Jtfo«ler. How beat? If your nation beat them, how came yon lo be 
Hkim? 

Frad^t^. They m«(«aBMmy4hen my nation, in the plaeewHeie me was; 
Iftey tabe <me, tw^o, three, and me : ray nation over-beat tiiem in die 
fi^ev place, where me no was; there my natkm take <me, twn, gieat 
Hn^psand. 

Hosier. But why did not yonr side recov^rir you from the hantfsof yam: 
inennesthai? 

Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and^Make go in die oanoe; 
WOf aadon have no canoe that tune. 

Umler. Well, Friday, and what does yonr natioir do with the men 
Ihey take? Do they carry them away and eat them, asdiese did? 

Friday. Yes, ray nadon eat mans too : eat all up. 

Master. Where do they cafry them ? 

Wmduy. Go to other place, where they think. 

Master. Do they come hither? 

Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other dse place. 

MasUr, Have you been here with them ? 

Friday. Yes, I have been here (points to die N. W, side of the istand^ 
fdridiy it seems, was their side)^ 



Of ROIMSON CSauSOE. 117 

fij tfus I underatood that ray man Friday liad lormerly been among the 
ifkYages who used to oome on shore on the farther part of the island, on 
|he same man-bating occasions he was now brought for; and, some time 
«fter» when I look the courage to carry him to that side^ being the same I 
jbmpierly mentioned, he presently knew the place, and told me he was 
there once, when they eat up twenty men, two women, and one child : 
lie ooQld not tell twenty in English, but he numbered them, by laying so 
mmj stones in a row, and pointing to me to tell them oirer. 

I have tojd this paas^e, because it introduces what follows; that after 
I iMid this disoonrse with him, t asked him how far it was from our island 
|» Ihe shore, and whethev the canoes were not often lost. He told me 
ItWfO W9is BO danger, no canoes ev^r lost ; but that after a little way out to 
sea, there was a current and wind, always one way in the meming, the 
elhei^ uft thQ afternoon. This I understood to he no more than the sets 
el Vhe Ude, as going out or coming in ; but I afterwards nnderatood it was 
neoaduiaed by the great draft and reflux qf the mighty river Oroofioko, in 
the month or gulf of wl^ich river, as I found afterwards, our island lay i vsA 
that this land which I perceived to the W. and N. W. waa the great island 
Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the river. I asked Friday a 
Ihoasand questions aboat the country, the iuhahitants> the sea, the coast, 
and what nations weve near : he told me all he knew, with the greatest 
openness imaginable. I asked him Uie names of the several nations of his 
sort of people, but could get noothername than Garibsifrom whence I 
easily nnderstood, that th^ were the Caribbees, which our mapsplaee on 
the part of America which reaches from the monthof the livev Oroonokalo 
Gmana, and onwards to St. Martha. He told me, that up a great way be- 
yond the moon, that was, beyond the setting of the moon, which most be 
west from their country, there dwelt white bearded men, likens, and pointed 
m my great whiskers which I mentioned before ; and that they had killed 
much mans, that was his word : by all which I understood he meant the 
^Nmiacds, whose crueHies in America had been spread over the whole 
eountry, and were remembered by all the nations, from fother to son. 

I inqniredif he could tell me how I flight go from this island and get 
among those while men ? he told me, Yes, yes, you may go in two canoe, 
i eoold not understand wbat he meant, or make bun describe to me what 
he meant by two canoe; till at last, with great difficulty, I found he 
meant it must hiain a large boat, as big as two canoes. This part of Fri- 
day's diseoufse began to relish with me very well'; and from this time I 
entertained some hopf» that, one time or other, I might find an opportu- 
nity to make my escape from tins place, and that this poor savage might 
he a means to help me. 

During the long time that Friday had now been with me, and that he 
began to speak to me and. understand me, I was not wanting to hiy a 
foundation of religious knowledge in his mind; particularly I asked him 
one time. Who made him ? The poor creature did not understand n(ie at 
all, but thought I had asked him who was his father : but I took it up by 
ai^other handle, and asked him who made the sea the ground we walked 
on, and the hills and woods! He told me, it was one old Benamuckee, 
that lived beyond all; he could describe nothing of this great person, but 
that hQ was vtcy oldi. wnch older, be said, than the sea orthetamd, 



128 Lrt-E aND ADVfeNTDKfiS 

than the moon or the stars. I asked him then, if this old person had 
made all things, why did not all things worship him? He looked very 
grave, and with a perfect look of innocence said, All things say O to 
him. I asked him if the people who die in his country went away any 
where ? He said, Yes; they all went to Benamuckee : then I asked hiin 
whether these they eat up went thither too ? He said, Yes. 

From these things I began to instruct him in the knowledge of the true 
God : I told him that the great Maker of all things lived up there, pointing 
up towards heaven ; that he governed the world by the same power and 
providence by which he made it; that he was omnipotent, and could do 
every thing for us, give every thing to us, take every thing from us; and 
thus, by degrees, I opened his eyes. He listened with great attention, 
and received with pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem 
us, and of the manner of making our prayers to God, and his being able 
to hear us, even in heaven. He told me one day, that if our God could 
hear us up beyond the son, he must needs be a greater God than their 
Benamuckee, who lived but a little way off, and yet could not hear till 
they went up to the great mountains where he dwelt to speak to him. I 
asked him if ever he went thither to speak to him ? He said, No ; they 
never went that were young men ; none went thither but the old men, 
whom he called their Oowokakee ; that is, as I made him explain it to 
me, their religions, or clei^ ; and that they went to say O (so he called 
saying prayers), and then came back, and told them what Benamuckee 
said. By this I observed, that there is priestcraH even among the most 
blinded ignorant pagans in the world ; and the policy of making a secret of 
religion, in order to preserve the veneration of the people to the clei^y, is 
not only to be found in the Roman, but perhaps among all religions in the 
world, even among the most brutish and barbarous savages. 

I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday ; and told him, 
that the pretence of their old men going up to the mountains to say O to 
their god Benamuckee was a cheat; and their bringing word from thence 
what he said was much more so ; that if they met with any answer, or spake 
with any one there, it must be with an evil spirit : and then I entered into 
a long discourse with him about the devil, the original of him, his rebel- 
lion against God, his enmity to man, the reason of it, his setting himself ap 
in the dark parts of the world to be worshiped instead of God, and as 
God, and the many stratagems he made use of to delude mankind to their 
ruin; how he had a secret access to our passions and to our affections, and 
to adapt his snares to our inclinations, so as to cause us even to be onr own 
tempters, and run upon our destruction by our own choice. 

I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in his mind about the 
devil as it was about the being of a God : nature assisted all my arguments 
to evidence to him even the necessity of a great First Cause, and over- 
ruling, governing Power, a secret directing Providence, and of the equity 
and justice of paying homage to him that made us, and the like ; but there 
appeared nothing of this kind in the notion of an evil spirit; of his original, 
his being, his nature, and, above all, of his inclination to do evil, and to 
draw us in to do so too : and the poor creature puzzled me once in such a 
manner, by a question merely natural and innocent, that I scarce knew 
what to say to him. I had been talking a great deal to him of the power 



OF ROBINSON CKUSOeI. la 

of God> his omnipotence, his aversion to sin, his being a consuming fire 
to the workers of iniqui^ ; how, as he had made us all, he could destroy 
us and all the world in a moment;' and he listened with great seriousness 
to me all the while. After this, I had been telling him how the devil was 
God's enemy m the hearts of men, and used alt his malice and skill to de- 
feat the good designs of Providence, and to ruin the kingdom of Christ ih 
the world, and tKe like. ^' Well," says Friday, '< but you say God is so 
strong, so great ; is he not much strong, much might as the devil ? — '' Yes, 
yes,'' says I, '^ Friday, God is stronger than the devil : God is above the 
^evil, and tlierefore we pray to God to tread him down under our feet, 
and enable us to resist his temptations, and quench his fiery darts." * 'But," 
says he again> " if God much stronger, much might as the devU^ why God 
no kill the devil, so make him no more do wicked?" I was strangely sur- 
prised at this question; and, afterall, though I was now an old man, yet I 
was but a young doctor, and ill qualified for a casuist, or a solver of diffi- 
culties; and at first I cdiild not tell what to say ; so I pretended not to hear 
him, and asked him what he said ; but he was too earnest for an answer^ 
to forget bis question, so that he repeated it in the very same broken words 
as above. By this time I had recovered myself a little, and I said, '* God 
will at last punish him severely; he is reserved for the judgment, and is 
to be cast into the bottomless pit, to dwell with everlasting fire. " This 
did not^sfy Friday ; but he returns upon me, repeating my words, ^'Jfte- 
servec^last! me no understand : but why not kill the devil now; not kill 
great ago?"— "You may as well ask me," said I, "why God does not 
kill you and me, when we do wicked things here that offend him : we are 
preserved to repent and be pardoned. " He mused some time on this . 
" Well, well, " says he, mighty affectionately, ** that well : so you, I, de^ 
vil, all wicked, all preserve, repent, God pardon all." Here I was run 
down again by him to the last degree ; and it was a testimony to me, how 
the mere notions of nature, though they will guide reasonaltle creatures 
to the knowledge of a God, and of a worship or homage due to the su- 
preme being of God, as the consequence of our nature, yet nothing but 
divine revelation can form the knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of i*edemp- 
tion purchased for us, of a mediator of the new covenant, and of an in- 
tercessor at the footstool of God's throne ; I say, nothing but a revelation 
from Heaven can form these in the soul ; and that therefbre, the gospel of 
oor Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean the Word of God, and the 
Spirit of God, promised for the guide and sanctifier of his people, are the 
absolutely necessary instructors of the souls of men .in the saving know* 
ledge of God, and the means of salvation. 

I t hcl ii hi ^ diverted the present discourse between me and my man,, 
rising up hastily, as upon some sudden occasion of going out; then send-^ 
ing him for something a good way off, I seriously prayed to God that he 
would enable me to instruct' savingly this poor savage; assisting, by his 
Spirit, the heart of the poor ignorant creature to receive the light of the 
knowledge of God in Christ, reconcilhig him to himself, dnd would guide 
me to speak -so to him from the Word of God, as his conscience might be 
convinced, his eyes opened, and his soul saved. When he came again io 
me, I entered mto a long discourse with him upon the subject of the re- 
demption of man by the Saviour of the world, and of the doctrine of tho 

9 



4M UFE AND ADV£NTUR£S 

gotpel preadied from heaveiiy viz. of repentance towards God, and fakk 
In oar Messed Lord Jesus. I then explained to bim as well as I could. 
Why oar blessed Redeemer took not on him the nature of angeb, kit the 
aeed of Abraham^ and bow, for that reason, the fallen angels faadns 
share in the redemption; that he oame only to die lost sheep oi the faMue 
of israd, and the like« 

I had) God knows, more sincerity than knt wjedge in att the OMthods 
I took for this poor creature's instraction, and most acknowiedlge, vkat I 
believe all that act upon the same principle will find, that in laying things 
ODen to him, I really informed and instrueted myself in maay things that 
cithier I did not know, or had not fully considered before, but whkh oo* 
COrred uatnraUy to my mind upoii seardiing into them, for the informa- 
tion of this poor savage ; and I had more affection in my ini|oiry ate 
things upon this occasion than ever I folt before : so that, whether this 
poor wild wretoh was the better for me or no, I had great reason to be 
thankful that ever ha eame to me; my grief sat lighter upon me; my ha* 
Mtation grew comfortable to me beyond measure ; and when I refleoted 
that in this solitary life which I iiad been confined to, I haiolnot only^ieen 
moved to look up to heaven myself, and to seek to the hand that had 
krooght me here, but was now to be made an instrument, under Provi- 
denoe, to save the life, and, for aught I knew, the soul of a poor savage, 
and Inring bott to the true knowledge of rdigion, and of the Christiaa 
4octrine, that he might Jloow Christ J^aos, in whom is life eternal;! 
say, when I reflected upon all these things, a secret joy ran through 
every part of my souj, and I frequently rejoked that ever I was brought 
to this place, which I had so often thought the most dreadful of allaf* 
Actions that coald possibly liave beMen me. 

I continued in this tliankful frame ail the remainder of my tune; and 
1^ conversation which employed the hours between Friday and me was 
aach as made the three years which ^e lived there together perfectly aad 
completely happy, if any sudi thii^ as complete happiness ean be formed 
in a snhliinary slate. This savage was now a good Christian, a mneh 
better than I, though i have reason to hope, and bless God for it, tkmi we 
urere equally penitent, and comforted, restored penitents. We had here 
tjhe word of God to read, and no Carther off from his Spiiit to inatraet, 
l^aaif we bad bean in £n^and. I always applied myself, in reacBng the 
Seriptores, to let him know, as well as I could, the meaning of wiiat I 
read; and he again, by his serious inquiries and questionings, made me, 
as I said before, a much better scholar in the Scripture knowledge than I 
should ever have been by my own mere private reading.' An^jiii[[ thing 
I cannot refrain from observing here also, from expedeilce imf/p^tkeA 
part of my life, vis. how infinite and inexpressible a blessing it iMhat the 
knowledge ef God, and of the doctrine of salvation by Christ Jesus, is so 
plainly laid down in the Word of God, so easy to be received and onder^ 
stood, that, as the bare reading the Sa*ipture made me capable of under- 
standing enough of my duty to carry me directly on to the great work of 
sincere repentance for my sins, and laying hold of a Saviotir for life and 
salvation, to a stated reformation in practice, and obedif nee to all God's 
oonunands, and this without any teacher or instructor, I mean human; 
m the sene platn instruction sofiicienay served to the enlightening tbie 



or t^MNsoN cMusM. m 

|in^ creatore^ and briiiging Iabi to be 6«cb a ChiMan as I Imrt 
known' few eqaai to him in my life. 

As to all the disputes, wrangling, strife, and contentjm iriiich kave 
Opened in the. w<orld al^ut ieiigl#ii, whether Moeiies in dootcatesi^ 
9r schemes of cjiurch governmenii they were ai perfediy vaelesa t» 
^«nd, for aughit I can yet see, Uiey ^ye heen sa Id Uie itnt of the 
j^oHd. We had the sure guide to keaveBi, vis« the word ol Ged; 
imd we had, blessed be God, comfortable views of the Spirit efG^d 
'te«^hing and instructing us by his word, leading us into aU trutk^ 
aihd /Baking ns both willing and obedi^t to the instroction of his 
word. And I cannot see the least use that the .greatest knowledge of 
Qie disputed points o( reiigioa, wiiidi have made snieb cenfiiaiotts in the 
Wflfrid, would have been to us, if we eoidd hove obtained iU fi«i I HMHt 
|e on vv'ith the historical part of things, an4 take every part in its qnfer. 

After Friday and I became more intimately t«|tiainted, and than fae 
CpfM understand almost all I said (o him, and apieak pretty iweally 
^hougb in broken English to me, I ae<|uainted him tiith my owniittefy, 
|r at least so much of it as ireJa^ted to my «Qming to this plaoe ; kifr I IumI 
ived here^ and how long : I l^t bifa into the mystery^ fersochit wiate 
iim^ of :gii|ipowder and bullet, and ta^gUt hiiu how Co aliOQt. I gtTe 
^ a knife, which he was TfoiMterfqlly. deligbted with; and I Made 
him a belt, with a frog hanging to Uy (Nidi as in England we wear 
gangers in» and in the frog in^ead of ahanger, I gave him a hatoheC^ 
fi^ch was not only ^ g^ a wfispon ia some cses, taut modi Biore 
%tefui upon other occi^ians. 

I described 10 bim the ooimiry d Eivrope, partiouiarif Engtand, wlifaih 
I came from; bow we lived, iiow we wecshitved Ood, iHiw we 
behaved to one soother, and bow we tinded io ships tQ all parts ^ Ike 
world. I gave him m account of the wreck which I tied been <» 
board of, and showed him, as near as i cowld, th<r pli^ where dbe My^ 
hut she was all beaten in pieces hefolv, and gmiev 1 shelved him the 
niiiins of our boa(, wliich we iiOsV when we escefesd, uid whiehKeealdiiat 
stir with my whole strei^ tlten; but was «ow . Men 4rttttogi aN te 
pieces. Upim seehig ibis boat, Friday $lnod4naei|i(^ * gveat ttHile, «nil 
siii nothing. I a^ed . him what k was he 'StediM vpoiiP At laift, saytl 
he. '^ Me 9ee sueb beat Ukie iXMHe to place at my naflioii^^' I did vM 
ilJiderstaBd him a go«d while; but, el last, when 1 had^^emliied ftli'th^ 
ij^to it, i understood by hiOH that a boat, sn^ii as that had been^ eaof^ oH 
shore upon tbe country Where he Mired; Uiat », as Ifie esptaitfietf H^^ 
was driven thithw by stress of .weather, i preaemly hvnagteed that ^eilhe 
l^ropean ship must have been cast aw«y upen their eoasi) afid the^hMft- 
ipight get loose and drive ashove; hui was to dull iliat I never enSte' 
tlfo^ght of men makiuf iheic escape. from a'wi^ek thither, VMiclil^ 
whence they might come ; so I only inquilred after a destiriptidtt el^ Ch^ 

Friday described the boat to me well enough ; bnt brotight me betlek*lO 
qilderstand him when he added with some warmth, '^ We save the white 
Q^ttDS fropn drown." Then I presently askedhim, if there were any whfte' 
muas, as he called them, in the boat? '^ Yes,'' he said ; << the boat full 
Olw.l^(« ^»«^^" I asked hhn how manf ? He Md ttpfon hl» fingers l^* 



m Ut^ft AND AbVENtURfiS 

renteen. I asked him then what became of them ? He told me, << *Thef 
live, they dwell at my nation." 

This put new thoughts into my head; for I i)resentiy imagined that 
these might be the men belonging to the ship that was east away in th« 
sight of my island, as I now called it ; and, who, after the ship was struck 
on the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost, had saved themselves in their 
boat,' and were landed upon that wild shore among the savages. Upon 
this I inquired of him more>critically what was become of them ; he assared 
me they lived still tliere, that they had been there about four years; that 
the savages let them alone, and gave them victuals to live on. I asked 
him^how it came to pass they did not killthem and eat them ? He said, 
** No, diey make brother with them;" that is,- as I understood him, a 
trnce; and then he added, '^ They no eat mans but when make the war 
fight;" that is to say, they never eat any men bnt $uch as come to fight 
with themj and are taken in battle. 

It was after this some considerable time, that being* upon the top of the 
hill at the east side of* the island, from whence, as I have said, I had in a 
clear day discovered the main or continent of America, Friday, the weather 
being v^y serene, looks very earnestly towards the main land, and, in a 
kind of surprise, falls a jumping and dancing, and calls out to me, for I 
W9^ at some distance from him. I asked him what was the matter ? '^ O 
joy !" ^ys he; '^O glad! there see my country, there my nation!" I 
observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared in his face, and his 
eyes sparkled, and bis countenance discovered a strange eagerness, as if 
he bad a mind to be in his own country again. This observation of mine 
put a gr^t many thoughts into me, which made me at first not so easy 
about my new man Friday as I was before; and I made no d<^abt but that 
if Friday could get back to his own nation again, he would not only forget 
all his religion, but all his obligatiim to me, and would be forward enough 
to give his countrymen an acQaunt of me, and comei^back perhaps with a 
hundred or two of them, and make a feast upon me, at which he might 
be as merry as he used to be with those of his enemies, when they were 
taken io war. But I wronged the poor honest creatare very much, for 
which I was very sorry afterwards. However, as my jealousy increased, 
and hdd pie some weeks, I was a little more circumspect, and not so fa- 
miliar ap(l kind to him as before : in whidi I was certainly in the wrong 
loo;.|he honest, grateful creatore having no thought 'about it, but what 
consisted with the best principles, both as a religious Christian, and as a 
grateful friend ; as appeared afterwards to my full satis&ction. 

While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was every day 
ivomping him, to see if he would discover any of the new thoughts whi<^ 
I suspected were in him : but I found every thing he said was so honest 
and so innocent that I could find nothing to nourish my suspicion; and, 
in spite of all my uneasiness, he made me at last entu«ly his own again ; 
nor did he in the least perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore I could 
not suspect him of deceit. 

One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather being hazy at 
sea, so that we could not see the continent, I called to bun, and said, 
^^Friday, do not you wish yourself in your own country, your own na- 
tion?"—* 'Yes," he said, <*I be mach O glad to beat my own nation." 



OF ROBINSON GAUSOE. 155 

« 

*< What would yoa do there ?" said I : << wonld yon turn wild again, eat 
men's flesh again, -and be a savage, as yoa were before?" He looked 
fall of concern, and shaking his head, said, ^^ No, no, Friday tell them 
to live good; tell them to pray God; lell them to eat com bread; cattle 
flesh, milk; no eat man again." — "Why then," said I to him, "they 
iwill kill you." He looked grave at that, and then said, "No, no; they 
no kill me, they willing love learn." He meant, by Ihis, they woald be 
willing to learn. He added, they learned much of the bearded mans 
that came in the boat. Then I akkedhim if he would go back to them; 
He smiled at that, and told me that he could not swim so flu*. I told 
him, I would-make a canoe for him. He told me he woald go, if I 
would go with bim. "I go ! " says I, " why^ they will eat me if I come 
there." — " NO;, no," says he, " me make they no eat you; me make they 
much love yoq." He meant, he would tell them how I had killed hli 
enemies, and saved his life, and so he would make them love me. Then 
he told me, as well as he could, how kind they were to seventeen white 
men, or bearded men, as he called them, who came on shore there in 
distress. 

From this time, I confess I had a mind to venture over, and see if I 
could possibly join with those bearded men, who I made no doubt weie 
Spaniards and Portuguese : not doubting but if I could, we might find* 
some method to escape Yrom thence, being upon the continent, and a goocT 
company together, better than I could kcm an island forty miles off the 
shore, and alone, without h^p. So, after some days, I took Friday to 
work again, by way of discourse, and told him I would give him a boat 
to go back to bis own nation; and accordingly, I caitied him to my fri- 
gate, which lay on the other side of the island, and having cleared it of 
water (for I always kqit it sunk in water), I brought it out, showed it 
him, and we both went into it. I Hoxmd he was a most dexterous fellow 
at managing it, and would make it go almost as swift again as I could. 
So when he was in I said to him, " Well, now, Friday, shall we go to 
your nation ? " He looked very dull at my saying so ; which it seems was, 
because he thought the boat too small to go so far : I then told him I had 
a bigger; so the next day I went to the place where the first boat lay 
which I had made, but which I could not get into the water. He said 
that was big enough : but then, as I had taken no care of it, and it had 
lain two or three and twenty years there, the sun had split and dried it, 
that it was in a manner rotten. Friday told me such a boat would do very 
well, and would carry "much enough vittle, drink, bread;" that was 
his way of talking. 

Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my design of going 
over with him to the continent that I told him we would go and make 
one as big as that, and he should go home in it. He answered not one 
word, but looked very grave and sad. I asked him what was the matter 
with him? He asked me again, "Why you angry mad with Friday? 
what me done ? " I asked him what he meant : I told him I was not 
angry with him at all. "No angry ! " says he, repeating the words se- 
veral times, "why send Friday home away to my nation?" — "Why, 
says I, " Friday did not you say you wished you were there?"—" Yes, 
y«8," says he, "wish \^ })oth thpjre; no yrish Friday Ifxere? no master 



lliere.'* Inr a word, he would not diink of going there without me. '* i 
go there, FrWay ! " says I, * * what shall I do there ? ** He relume^ rerf 
quUA upon me at this : *^ ^ou do great deal much good/' says he; ** ydti 
teach wild mans be gdod sober, tame mans; you tell ihem know Go<}j 
pray God, and live new life." — '*Alas, Friday!*' says I, "thou knowesC 
not wliat thou saycstj I sim but an ignorant man myself." — " Yes, yes,^ 
says be, "you te'aehee faie good, you teachee them good." — **No, n)i; 
Friday," says I, ^you shall go without itte ; leaye me here to live l^ my- 
self, us I ttd before." He looked confused again at that word ; and rtiiv- 
niitg to ooe of the batchets which be t^sed to wear, he takes it up hastily, 
and gives it to me. " What must I do with this ?" says I to him. " YoiT 
taie mt Friday," says he. '< What must 1 kiU you for?^ said I again. 
He retUKBS very quick, *' What you send Friday away for? Take krtf 
Friday, no send Friday away." This he spoke so Earnestly that I sat^ 
tears staad in bis eyes : In a wovd, I so plainly discovered the utmost 
affection 01 him to me, and a firm resolntion in him, that I told him llien, 
and ofleti afii^, that I would n^ver send him away from ine, if be was 
willing to stay with me. 

UfMB the whole, as I fefuml tuy all his discourse a settled affection to 
■le, and that nothing should part him from me, so I round all the foun- 
^tion of his desire to go to Kfe own country was laid in his ardent af-^ 
fcetioii io the people, and hi$ hopes of my doing them good ; a thing 
which, M i had no notion of myself, so I had not the least thought o^ 
iBtentliMi 01^ desire of undertaking it. ' But still I found a strong hicNna^ 
lion to my attemptinj^ an escape, as above, founded on tl;^e supposftiod 
gafhered from the discourse, viz. that there were seventeen bearded metf 
Ibete : aMd therefore, withoiit any more delay, I went to work wiffi 
Fri^y, to find out a greirt tree proper to fell, and make a large periagna, 
or eanoe^ to undertake the voyage. There were trees enough in the island 
to have built a little fleet, not of periagnas or carioes, but even of goodF 
krge vessels ; but the main thing I looked at was, to get one so near the 
water tiial we might lauhch it when it was made, to avoid the mistake 1 
cemniitted at first. At last, Friday pitched upon a tree ; for I found lie 
knew mueh better than I what kind of wood was fittest for it ; nor can I 
ttdl, to Ibis day, what Vt-ood ta call the tree we cut down, except that if 
#aa very Kke the free we call fustic, or between that and the Nicaragua 
trood, liar it was much of the same colour and smell. Friday was for 
hpniing the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to make it for a boat, but 
Isho^^ed him how to cut It with tools; which, after I had showed hifri^ 
how to use, he did Very handily : and in about a month's hard labour we 
finished it), and made it very haiidsohie ; especially when, with our axes, 
wlkh I showed him how to handle, we cut and hewed the outside intd 
llie itnB shape of a boat. After this, however, it cost us near a fortnight^^ 
tinle to get her along, as it were, inch by inch, upon great rollers into the 
watery but when she was in, she would have carried twenty men with 
greafrease. 

When she was in the water, and though she was so big, it amazed lia^ 
to see wiUi what dexterity, and how swift my man Friday would manage 
hep, turn her, and pacMlelier along. So I asked him if he would, and if 
w« ml^ vimtim iBTver in her. *<Te0^" he said,' <<^ ventei^ cHte i# 



OF ROBmSO!! CRUSOE. 35 

her verf w«n, though ^eat bloir Tvuid.'' HoweT^r, I had a ftirther de« 
8^ that lie knew nothing of, and that was, to make a mast and a sail, 
and to fit her with an anchor and cahle. As to a mast, that was easf 
epongh to get; so I pitched opon a straiglit yoang cedar tree, which I 
found near the place, and which there were great plenty of in the island ; 
and I set Friday to work to cat It down, and gave him directions how tQ 
siiape and order it. Bat as to the sail, that was my particular care. I 
knew I bad old sails, or rather pieces of old sails enough ; bat as I had 
had them now six and twenty years by me, and had not been very carefhl 
to preserve them, not imagining tliat I shonld ever have this kind of use 
Ibr them, I did not doubt but they w^ere all rotten ; and, indeed, most of 
them were !k>. However, I fbund two pieces, which appeared pretty 
good, and with these I went ta work; and with a great deal of pains, an4 
awkward stitching yoa may be sure, for want of needles, I at length made 
a three cornered ugly thing, like what we call in England a shonlder of 
motion sail^ to go with a boom at bottom, and a little short sprit at the 
top, rach as usoAlly onr ships' long-boats sail with, and snch as I best 
knew how to manage, as it was snci a one as I had to the boat in whfeh 
I made my escape from Barbary, as related in the first part of my itory« 

I was near two months performing this last work, viz. rigging and 
fitting my mast and sails ; for | finished them very complete, making a 
small stay, and a sail, or foresail, to it, to assist, if we should tarn to wind- 
ward ; and, which was mere than all, I fixed a rudder to the stem of her 
to steer with. I was but a bungling shipwright, yet as I knew the 
uaefblness; and even necessity of such a thing, I applied myself with sq 
Dmch pams to do it, that at last I brought it to pass ; though, considering 
the many dull eontrivances I had for it that failed, I think it cost me 
ainost as much labour as making the boat. 

After all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach as to what 
belonged to the navigation of my boat; for, though he knew very well 
how to paddle a canoe, he knew nothing what belonged to a sail and ^ 
radder ; and was the most amazed when he saw me work the boat to an4 
again in the sea by the rudder, and how the sail gibbed, and filled thi^ 
way or that way, as the course we sailed changed ; I say, when he saw 
this, he stood like one astonished and amazed. However, with a little 
use, I made all these things familiar to him, and he became an expert 
sailor, except that as to the compass ; I could make him understand very 
little of that. On the other hand, as there was very little cloudy weather, 
and seldom or never any fogs in those parts, there was the less occasion 
for a compass, seeing the stars were always to be seen by night, and the 
shore by day, except in the rainy seasons, and then nobody cared to stur 
abroad either by land or sea. 

I was now entered on the seven and twentieth year of my captivity In 
this place ; though the three last years that I had this creature with me 
ought rather to he left out of the account, my habitation being quite of 
another kind than in all the rest of the time. I kejpt the anniversary of 
my landing here with the same thankfulness to God for his mercies as at 
first ; and if I had such cause of acknowledgment at first, I had much more 
so now, having such additional testimonies of the care of Providence over 
me, and the great hopes I bad itf being elfectnally and speedily delivered; 



158 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

for I had an invincible impression npon my thoughts that my deliverance, 
was at hand, and that I should not be another year in lhi$ place. I vent 
on, however, with my husbandry ; digging, planting, and fencing, as 
usual. I gathered and cured my grapes, \nd did every necessary thing 
as before. 

The rainy season was, in the mean time, npon .me, when I kept more 
wilhin doors than at other times. We had stoXved our new vessel as 
secure as we could, bringing her up into the creek, where, as I said in 
the beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship ; and hauling her up to the 
shore at high water mark, I made my man Friday dig a Iktle dock, jnst 
big enough to hold her, and just deep enough to give her water enough to float 
in ; and then, when the tide was.out, we made a strong dam across the end of 
it, to keep the water out; and sp she lay dry as to the tide from the sea; 
and to keep the rain off, we laid a great many boughs of trees, so tliick 
that she was as well thatched as a house ; and thus we waited for the months 
of November and December, in which I designed to make myadventure. 

When the settled season began to come in, as the tliought of my design 
returned with the fair weather, I was preparing daily for the voyage : and 
(he first thing I did was to lay by a certain quantity of provisions, being 
the stores for our voyage ; and intended, in a week or a fortnight's time, 
to open the dock, and launch out our boat. I was busy one morning upon 
something of this kindy when I called to iFriday, and bid him go to the 
seashore, and see if he could find a turtle, or tortoise, a thing which we 
generally got once a v^ek, for the sake of the eggs as well as the flesh. 
Friday had not been long gone, when he came running back, and flew 
over my outer wall, or fence, like one that felt not the ground, or the 
steps he set his feet on ; and before I had time to speak to him, he cries 
out to me, " O master ! O madter ! O sorrow ! O bad ! "— " What's the 
matter, Friday?" says I. *^0 yonder, there," says he, "one, two, 
three canoe ; one, two, three !" By this way of speaking, I concluded 
there were six ; but on inquiry I found it was but three. " Well, 
Friday," says I, " do not be frightened." So I heartened him up as 
well as I could : however, I saw the poor fellow was most terribly 
scared ; for nothing ran in his head but that they were come to look for 
him, and would cut him in pieces and eat him; and the poor fellow 
trembled so that I scarce knew what to do with him. * I comforted him as 
well as I could, and told him I was in as much danger as he, and that 
they would eat me as well as him. *'Bnt," says I, "Friday, we must 
resolve to fight »them. Can you fight, Friday ? "—"Me shoot," says he, 
"but there come many great number."— "No matter for that," said I, 
again; "our guns will fright them that we do not kill." So I asked him 
whether, if I resolved to defend him, he would defend me, and stand by 
me, and do just as I bid him. He said, "Me die, when you bid die, 
master." So I went and fetched a good dram of rum and gave him ; for 
I had been so good a husband of my ruin, that I had a great deal left. 
When he drank it, I made him take the two fowlingpieces, which we 
always carried, and loaded them with larg& swanshot, as big as small 
pistol bullets : then I took four muskets, and loaded them with two slugs, 
and five small bullets each ; and my two pistols I loaded with a brace of 
bullets each : I hung my great sword, as usual, naked by my side, and 



OF ROKNSON CRU^Oe. fS7 

gave Friday his hatchet. When I had thus prepared myself, I took my 
perspective-glass, and went up to the side of the hill, to see what I could 
discover; and I found quickly by my glass, that there were one and 
twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and that their whole 
business seemed to be the triumphant banquet upon these three human 
bodies; a barbarous jeast indeed, but nothing more than, as I had ob- 
served, was usual with them. I observed also, that they were landed, 
not where they had done when Friday made his escape, but nearer to my 
creek, where the shore was low, and where a thick wood came almost 
close down to the sea. Tliis, with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand 
these wretches came about, filled me with such indignation that I came 
down again to Friday, and told him I was resolved to go down to them, 
and kill them all; and asked him if he would stand by me. He had now 
got over his fright, and his spirits being a little raised with the dram I had 
given him, he was very cheerful; and told me, as before, he would die 
when I bid die. 

In this fit of fury, I took and divided the arms which I had charged, as 
before, between us : I gave Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and 
three guns upon his shoulder; and I took one pistol, and the other three 
guns, myself; and in this posture we marched out. I took a small bottle 
of rum in my pocket, and gave Friday a large bag. with more powder and 
ballets; and, as to orders, I charged him to keep close behind me, and 
not tostjr, or shoot, or do anything, till I bid him; and, in the mean time, 
not to speak a word. In this posture, I fetched a compass to my right 
hand of near a mile, as well to get over the creek as to get into the wood, 
so that I could come within shot of them before I should be discovered, 
which I had seen by my glass it was easy to do. 

While I was making this march, my former thoughts returning, I be- 
gan to abate my resolution : I do not mean that I entertained any fear of 
their number; for, as they were naked, unarmed wretches , it is certain I 
was superior to them, nay, though I had been alone. But it occurred to 
my thoughts, w hat call, what occasion, much less what necessity I was in, 
to go and dip my hands in blood, to attack people who had neither done 
or intended me any wrong ? Who, as to me, were innocent, and whose 
barbarous customs were their own disaster; being, in them, a token in- 
deed of God's having left them, with the other nations of that part of the 
world, to such stupidity, and to such inhuman courses; but did not call 
me to take upon me to be a judge of their actions, much less an execution- 
er of his justice ; that, whenever he thought fit, he would take the cause 
into his own hands, and, by national vengeance, punish them, as a people, 
for national crimes; but that in the mean time, it was none of my busi- 
ness; that it was true, Friday might justify it, because he was a declared 
enemy, and in a state of war with those very particular people, and it was 
lawful for him to attack them ; but I could not say the same with respect 
to myself. These things were so warmly pressed upon my thoughts all 
the way as I went, that I resolved I would only go and place myself near 
them, that I might observe their barbarous feast, and that I would act 
then as God should direct ; but that, unless something offered that was 
more a call to me than yet I knew of, I would not meddle with them. 
With this resolution I entered the wood : and, with all possible 



189 LIFE ANDADVENTURES 

wariness and gflence, Friday following close at my heels, I marched till t 
came to the skirt of the wood, on llie side which was next to them; onljr 
that one corner of the wood lay l)etween me and them. Here I called 
softly to Friday, and showing: him a great tree which was jost at flie cor- 
ner of the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and bring me word if he could 
see there plainly what they were doing. He did so, and came immedi* 
atelybaek to me, and told me they might be plainly viewed there; that the; 
were all about their fire, eating the flesh of one of their prisoners, and 
that another lay hound upon the sand, a little from them, which, he said* 
they would kill next, and which fired the very soul within me. He tpld 
me it was not one of their nation, but one of the bearded men he had told 
me of, that came to their country in the boat. I was filled with horror 
4t the very naming the white bearded man ; and, going to the U'ee, I saw 
plainly by my glass a white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, with 
bis hands and his feet tied with flags, or tilings like msheSy and that ha 
was an European, and had clothes on. 

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about fifty yardf 
nearer to them than the place where I was, which, by gohig a little way 
about, I saw I might come at undiscovered , and that then I slioald be 
within half a shot of them : so I withheld my passion, though I was in- 
deed enras^ed to the highest degree ; and going back about twenty paoes, 
I got behind some bushes, which held all the way till I came to the other 
tree; and then came to a little rising groimd, which gave me a ftiil view 
of them, at the distance of about eighty yards. 

I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the dreadful wretches 
sat upon the ground, all close huddled together, and had just ami the 
othfr two to butcher the poor Christian, and bring liim, perhaps limb by 
limb, to their fire ; and they were stooping down to untie the bands at hifl 
feet. I turned to Friday — ** Now, Friday," said I, *' do as I bid thee/* 
Friday said he would, ^'flhen, Friday," says I, ''do exactly as yoo see 
me do ; fail in nothing. '' So I set down one of the muskets and tlie fowl- 
ingpiece upon the ground, and Friday did the like by his; and with the 
other musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding him to do the like : 
then asking him if he was ready, he said, '' Yes. " *^ Then fire at them,'* 
said I; and the same moment I fired also. 

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side that he shot» 
he killed two of them, and wounded three more ; and on my side, I killed 
one, and wounded two. They were, you may be sure, in a dreadful 
consternation; and all of them who were not hurt, jumped upon their 
feet, but did not immediately know which way to run, or which way to 
look, for they knew not from whence their destruction came. Friday 
kept his eyes close upon me, that, as I had bid him, he might observe 
what I did ; so, as soon as the first shot was made, I threw down the piece, 
and took up the fowlinirpiece, and Friday did the like : be saw me cock 
and present; he did the same again. '* Are you ready, Friday?" said L 
— " Yes," says he. '* Let fly, then, " says I, "in the name of God !" and 
with that I fired again among the amazed wretches, and so did Friday; 
and as our pieces were now loaden with what I called swanshot, or small 
pistol bullets, we found only two drop, but so many were wounded^ that 
they ran about yelling and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody, and 



OF ROBINSON CKVSCfE. IM 

most of them miserably ^^^ontided, whereof three more fell quickly afkcT} 
tbongh not quite dead. 

" Now, Friday, " says I, laying down itie disdiarged pieces, and taking 
tip the mosket which was yet loaden, '* follow me;" which lie did witS 
a great deal of courage; upon which I rushed out of (he wood, andsbowr 
ed myself, and Friday close at my foot. As soon as I perceived they saw 
me, I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday do so too; and running 
as fast as I could, which by the way was not very fast, being loaded wiih 
arms as I was, I made directly towards the poor victim, who was, as { 
said, lying upon the beach, or shore, between the place where they sal 
and the sea. The two butchers, who were just going to work with bini^ 
had left him at the surprise of our first fire, and fled in a terrible flight ta 
the seaside, and had jumped into a canoe, and three more of the rest mad# 
the same way. I turned to Friday, and bade him step forwards, and fire 
at them; he understood me immediately, and running about forty yards^ 
to be nearer them, he shot at them, and I thought he had killed them all, 
for I saw them all fail of a heap into the boat, though I saw two of tbeo^ 
up again quickly : however, he killed two of Ihem, and wounded the third 
so that he lay down in the bottom of the boat as if he had been dead. 

While my man Friday fii*ed at tbem, I pulled out my knife and cat thf 
iags that bound the poor victim ; and loosing his hands and feet, I lifUdl 
liim up, and asked him in tlie Portuguese tongue, what he was. He an* 
gwered in Latin, Christianus ; but was so weak and faint that he oould 
scarce stand or speak. I took my bottle out of my pocket, and gave it him^ 
rfiaking signs that he should drink, which he did ; and I gave him a piect 
of bread, which he eat. Then I asked him what countryman he was : 
and he said Espagniole; and being a little recovered, let me know, by aU 
the signs he could possibly make, how much he was in my debt for liis 
deliverance. '^ Seignior," said I, with as much Spanish as I could maka 
up, '^ we will talk afterwards, but we must fight now : if you have any 
strength left, take this pistol and sword, and lay about yon." He took 
them very thankfully; and no sooner had he the arms in Lis hands, but, 
as if they had pot new vigour into him, he flew upon his murderers Ilka 
a fury, and had cut two of them in pieces in an instant; for the truth is, 
$B the whole was a surprise to them, so the poor creatures were so much 
frightened with the noiseof our pieces that they fell down for mere amaae- 
ment and fear, and had no more power to attempt their own esoapey 
tiian their flesh had to resist our shot : and that was the case of those five 
that Friday shot at in the boat; for as three of them f^li with the hurl they 
reesiTed, so the other two fell with the fright. 

I kept my piece in my hand still without firing, being willing to keep 
my charge ready, because I had given the Spaniard my pistol and sword : 
so I called to Friday, and bade him run up to the tree from whence we 
first fired, and fetch the arms which lay there that had been discharged, 
which he did with great swiftness ; and then giving him my musket, I 
sat down myself to load all the rest again, and bade them come to ma 
when they wanted. While I was loading these pieces, there hapfiened a 
fierce engagement between the Spaniard, and one of the savages, who 
made at him with one of their great wooden swords, the samelike weapon 
that Was to havts killed hhn before, if I had not prevented it. The Spa- 



140 LIFE AND ADTENTl}KE$ 

niard, who was as bold and brave as could fm imagined, though weak, 
had fought this Indian a good while, and had cut him two great woonds 
on his biead; but the savage being a stout, lusty fellow, closing in with 
him, had thrown him down, being faint, and was wringing my sword 
ont of his hand; when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitting 
the sword, drew the pistol from his girdle, shot the savage through the 
body, and killed him upon the spot, before I, who was running to help 
him, could come near him. 

Friday, being now left to his liberty, pursued the flying wretches, with 
no weapon in his hand but his hatchet ^ and with that he despatched 
those three, who, as I said before, were wounded at first, and fallen, and 
all the rest he could come up with : and the Spaniard coming to me for a 
gun, I gave him one of the fowling-pieces, with which he pursued two of 
Bie savages, and wounded them both ; but, as he was not able to run, 
they both got from him into the wood, where Friday pursued them, and 
killed one of them, but the other was too nimble for him; and though he 
was wounded, yet had plunged hhnself into the sea, and swam with all 
his might off to those two who were left in the canoe, which three in the 
^anoe, with one wounded, that we knew not whether he died or no, were 
all that escaped our hands of one and twenty ; the account of the whole 
is as follows : three killed at our first shot from the tree ; two killed at the 
next shot; two killed by Friday in the boat; two killed by^Friday, of 
those at first wounded ; one killed by Friday in tbe wood ; three killed by 
the Spaniard ; four killed, being found dropped here and there, of their 
wounds, or killed by Friday in his chase of them; four escaped in the 
boat, whereof one wounded, if not dead.<^— Twenty-one in all. 

Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of gunshot, and 
though Friday made two or three shots at them, I did not find that he 
hit any of them. Friday would fain have had me take one of their ca- 
noes, and pursue tliem ; and indeed, I was very anxious about their es- 
cape, lest carrying the news home to their people, they should come back 
perhaps with two or three hundred of the canoes, and devour us by mere 
multitude ; so I consented to pursue them by sea, and running to one of 
their canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday follow me ; but when I was 
in the canoe, I was surprised to find another poor creature lie there, bound 
hand and foot, as the Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and almost dead 
with fear, not knowing what was the matter; for he had not been able to 
look up over the side of the boat, he was tied so hard neck and beds, and 
had been tied so long, that he had really but little life in him. 

I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they had bound 
him with, and would have helped him up; but he could not stand or 
speak, but groaned most piteously, believing, it seems, still, that he was 
only unbound in order to be killed. When Friday came to him, I bade 
him speak to him, and tell him of his deliverance; and, pulling out my 
bottle, made him give the poor wretch a dram ; which, with the news of 
his being delivered, revived him, and he sat up in the boat. But when 
Friday came to hear him speak, and look in his face, it would have moved 
any one to tears to have seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him, 
hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about, danced, sung; then 
cried again, wrung his hands, beat his own face and head; andtbea sung 



6f ROBINSON CRUSOE. . i4i 

^nd jii(n()ed about again, like a distracted creatare. It Was a i^oocl while 
before J could make him speak t6 me, or telt me what was the matter; 
but when he came a little to himself, he told me that it was his father. 
. It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see what ecstasy 
and filial affectiofi had worked in this poor savage at the sight of his 
father, and of his being delivered from death ; nor, indeed, can I describe 
half the extravagances of his affection after this; for he went into the 
boat, and out of the boat, a great many times : when he went in to him, 
he would sit down by him, open his breast, and hold his father's head 
close to bis bosom for many minutes together, to nourish it ; then he took 
his arms and ankles, which were numbed and stiff with the binding, and 
chafed and rubbed them with his hands ; and I, perceiving what the case 
was, gave him some ram out of my bottle to rub them with, which did 
them a great deal of good. 

This afEaiir put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the other savages 
who were now got almost out of sight; and it was happy for us that we 
did not, for it blew so hard within two hours after, and before they could 
be got a quarter of their way, and continued blowing so hard all night, 
and that from the north-west, which was against them, that I could not 
suppose their boat could live, or that they ever reached their own coast. 

But, to return to Friday; he was so busy about his father, that I could 
not find ui my heart. to take him off for some time; but after I thought 
he could leave him a little, I called him to me, and he came jumping and 
laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme ; then I asked him if he had 
given his father any bread. He shook his head, and said, ^'None; ugly 
dog est all up self." I then gave him a cake of bread, out of a little pouch 
I carried on purpose; I also gave him a dram for himself^ but he would 
not taste it, but carried it to his father. I had in my pocket two or three 
bunches of raisins, so I gave him a handflil of them for his father. He 
bad no sooner given his father these raisins, but I saw him come out ot 
the boat, and run away, as if he had been bewitched, he ran at such a 
rate ; for he was the swiftest fellow on his feet that ever I saw : I say, 
he ran at such a rate that he was out of sight, as it were, in an instant; 
and though I called, and hallooed out too, after him, it was all one, away 
he went; and in a quarter of an hour I saw him come back again, though 
not so fast as he went; and as he came nearer, I found his pace slacker, 
because he had something m his hand. When he came up to me, I found 
he had been quite home for an earth^i jug, or pot, ib bring his father 
some fresh water, md that he had got two more cakes or loaves of bread; 
the bread he gave me, but the water he carried to his father; however, 
as I was very thirsty too, I took a little sup of it. The water revived his 
father more than all the rum or spirits I had given him, for he was just 
feinting with thirst. 

When his father had drank, I called to him to know if there was any 
water left : he said, '< Yes ; " and I bade him give it to the poor Spaniard, 
who was in as much want of it as his father; and I sent one of the cakes^ 
that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, who was indeed very weak, 
and was reposing himself upon a green place under the shade of a tree ; 
and whose limbs were also very stiff, and very much swelled with- the 
rude baadagehe had been tied with. When I saw that, u[M>n Friday's 



m UFE AND ADVENltJll&S 

« 

coming to him witk the water, he s?it up and drank, and took the bretd^ 
and b^an to eat, I went to him and gave iiim a handful of raisins : he 
looked up in my face with all the tokens of gratitude and thankfulneai 
that could appear in any countenance ,* Imt was so weak, notwithstanding 
he had so exerted himself in the fight, tliat he could not stand up upap 
lus feet ; he tried to do it two or lliree times^ hot was really not able, his 
ankles were so swelled and so painful to him; so I bade hkn sit siill, aa4 
caused Friday to rub his ankles, and bathe them with raniy as he ha4 
«lone his father's. 

I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two rainotes, or 
berhaps less, all the while he was h«re, turn his head 'aboat^ to see if 
nls father was in the same place and posture as he left him sitting! 
«md 9X Ust he found he was not to be seen ; at which he started i^, and, 
without speaking a word, flew with that swiftness to him, tliat one could 
scarce jierceive his feet to touch the growd as lie went ^ but when he 
came he only found he had laid himself down to ease his limbs, so Friday 
came back to me presently ; and then I spoke to the Spaniard to let 
Friday help him up, if he could, and lead him to the boat^ and then he 
khould carry him to our dweWng) where I would take care of him : 
W Friday, ji lusty strong fellow, took the Spaniard qii^ up upon 
his back, and carried him away lo the boat, and set hidi down 8<^ly 
i^pon the side or gunnel of the canoe, with his feel in the inside of it; 
jmd then lifting him quite in* he set him dose to his fother ; aad pre- 
JMaotly stepping out again, launelied the boat off, and paddled k aioiig 
ihe shore faster than I could walk, thongU the wind lilew pretty hard 
(do : so he hrought them both safe into our creek, and leaving them m . 
fhe boat, ran away to letch tlie other eaooe. As he passed me, I spoke 
to him, and asked ium whither he went. He told me, ^' Go fetch man 
hmi:" so away he went like the wind, for sure never manpr horse raa 
like him; and he had the other canoe in the creek almost as soon as I got 
to it by land ; ^o he wafted me over, md then went to help oar new 
ffuests out of the boat, which he did; birt they were neither of them able 
to walk, so that poor Friday knew not what to do. 

To remei^ tiiis, I w^C to work in my thought, and caUiqg to Fridtf 
10 bid tliem sit down on the bank while he came to me, I soon made a 
kiad of hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday and J carried theenMk 
li^ together upon it, between as. 

But when we got them to the outside of our wall, or fortification, we 
ifnereat a worse loss than belore, for it was impossible to ^ then ofor, 
and I waf resolved not to break it down; so I set lo work again; and 
l^riday and I, in about two hours' ^m^, made a very handsMne tent, 
eovered with old sails, and above that with bwghs of trees, being in the 
space without our outward fence, and between that and tbe grove of 
young wood which I had planted : and here w6 made theih two bede of 
sioch things as I had, viz. of good rice-straw, with blankets laid opon ky 
to lie on, and another to cover them, on each bed. 

My island was now peopled, and I thought myself very rich ia 
subjects; and it was a merry reflection, which I frequently made, how 
like a king I looked. First of all, the whole country was my own mem 
ynforty; so that I had an undonbtod right of dominion, sis9iMfi mf 



0^ ROBINSON catJSOE. 145 

l^ple w«re perfectly subjected; I was absolutely lord and lawgiver; 
they all owed tbeir lives to me, and were ready to lay down their lives^ 
if there had been occasion for it, for me. It was remarkable, too, I bad 
but three subjects, and they were of ihree different religions : my maa 
Friday was a Protestant, his father was a Pagan and a cannibal, and Uie 
Spaniard was a Papist : however, I allowed liberty of conscience through* 
out my dominions : — But ihis is by the way. 

As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued prisoners, and given 
them shelter, and a place (o rest them upon, I began to tliink of making 
some provision for them; and the first thing I did, I ordered Friday U> 
take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out of my particular flocky 
to be killed ; when I cut off the hinder-quarter, and chopping it int^ 
mall pieces, I set Friday to work to boiling and stewing, and made 
Ihem a very good dish, I assure you, of flesh and broth : and as I cooked 
It without doors, for I made no fire within my inner wall, so I carried it 
all into the new tent, and having set a table there for them, I sat dowm 
and eat my own dinner also with them, and, as well as I could, cheered 
them and encouraged them. Friday was my interpreter, especially to hia 
btlier, and, indeed, to the Spaniard too; for the Spaniard spoke the 
language of the savages pretty well. 

After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to take one of 
the canoes, and go and fetch our muskeis and other fire-arms, which, for 
want of time, we had left upon the place of battle; and, the next day, I 
ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of the savages, which laj 
open to the sun, and would presently be offensive. I also ordered him 
to bury the horrid remains of their barbarous feast, which I knew wer^ 
pretty muc)i, and which I could not ihirA of doing myself; nay, I could 
not bear to see them, if I went that way; all which he punctually per> 
formed, and effaced the very appearance of the savages being there; to 
tliat when I went again, I could scarce know where it was, otherwise 
than by the corner of the wood pointing to the place. 

t then began to enter into a little conversation with my two new 
subjects : and, first, I set Friday to inquire of his father what he thought 
of the escape of the savages in that canoe, and whether we might expect 
a return of them, with a power too great for us to resist. His first 
opinion was, tliat the savages in the boat never could live oat the storm 
which blew that night they went off, but must, of necessity, be drowned, 
^ driven south to those other shores, where lliey were as sure to be de- 
Toured as they were to be drowned, if they were cast away : but, as to 
what they would do, if they came safe on shore, he aid he knew not; but 
it was his opinion, that they were so dreadfully frightened with the 
manner of their being attacked, the noise, and the fire, that he believed 
they would tell the people they were all killed by thunder and lightnuig, 
not by the hand of man ; and that the two which appeared, viz. Friday 
and I, were two heavenly spirits, or furies, come down to destroy them, 
and not men with weapons. This, he said, he knew ; because he heard 
them all cry out so, in their language, one to another; for it was impos- 
sible for them to conceive that a man could dart fire, and speak thunder, 
and kill at a distance, without lifting up the hand, as was done now : and 
tta« old ^Ydge was in the right ^ for, as I understood since, by other 



144 Lt^E AND ADVENTtRfeS 

hands, the savdges never attempted to go over to the island afterwards, 
they were so terrified with the accounts given by those four men (for, it 
seems, they did escape the sea) that they believed whoever went to ihat 
enchanted island would be destroyed with fire from the gods. This, 
however, I knew not ; and tlierefore was under continual apprehensions 
for a good while, and kept always upon my guard, with all my army ; 
for, as there were now four of us, I would have ventured upon a hundred 
of them, fairly in the open field, at any time. 

In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing, the fear of their 
coming wore off; and I began to take my former thoughts of a voyage 
to the main into consideration; being likewise assured, by Friday's 
father, that I might depend upon good usage from their nation, on his 
account, if I would go. But my thoughts were a little suspended when I 
had a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when I understood that 
there were sixteen more of his countrynien and Portuguese, who, having 
been cast away, and made their escape to tliat side, lived there at peace, 
indeed, with the savages, but were very sore put to it for necessaries, 
and indeed, for life. I asked him all the particulars of their voyage, and 
found they were a Spanish ship, bound from the Rio de la Plata to the 
Havanna,. being directed to leave their loading there, which was chiedy 
hides and silver, and to bring back what European goods they could 
meet with there ; that they had five Portuguese seamen on board, whom 
they took out of another wreck ; that five of their own men were drowned, 
when first the ship was lost, and that these eseaped through infinite dan- 
gers and hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on the cannibal coast, 
where they expected to have been devoured every moment. He told n)e 
they had some arms with them, i)ut they were perfectly useless, for that 
they had neither powder nor ball, the washing of the sea having spoiled 
all their powder, but a little, which they used, at their first landing, to 
provide themselves some food. 

I asked him what he thought would become of them there, and if they had 
formed any design of making their escape. He said they had many con- 
sultations about it ; hut that having neither vessel, nor tools to build one, 
nor provisions of any kind, their councils always ended in tears and des- 
pair. I asked him how he thought they would receive a proposal from 
me, which might tend towards an escape ; and whether, if they were all 
here, it might not be done. I told him with freedom, I feared mostly 
their treachery and ill usage of me, if I put my life in their hands; for 
that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature of man, nor did men 
always square their dealings by the obligations they had received, so 
much as they did by the advantages they expected. I told bim it would be 
very hard that I should be the instrument of their deliverance, and that 
they' should afterwards make me their prisoner in New Spain, where an 
Englishman was certain to be made a sacrifice, what necessity or what 
accident soever brought him thither ; and that I had rather be delivered 
up to the savages^ and be devoured alive,' than fall into the merciless claws 
of the priests, and be carried into the Inquisition. I added, that other- 
wise I was persuaded, if they were all here, we might, with so many 
hands, build a bark large enough to carry us all away, either to the Brazils, 
soutliward, or to the islands, or Spanish coast northward; but tliat if, in 



6f tlOBlNSON CtlUSOt:. 145 

i^ei}n]ta], they should, when I had pnt weapons into their hands, carry 
me by force among their own people, I might be ill used for my kindness 
to them, and make my case worse than it was before. 

He answered, with a great deal of candour and ingenuousness, that 
their condition was so miserable, and that they were so sensible of it, that, 
he believed, they would abhor the thought of using any man unkindly 
that should contribute to their deliTerance; and that if I pleased, he 
would go to them with the old man, and discourse with them about it and 
return agaui, and bring me their answer; that he would make conditions 
with them upon their solemn oath, that they should be absolutely under 
my leading, as their commander and captaui : and they should swear 
upon the holy sacraments and gospel, to be true to me, and go to such 
Christian country as that I should agree to, and no other, and to be di- 
rected wholly and absolutely by my orders: till they were landed safely 
in such country as I intended; and that he would bring a contract from 
them, under their hands, for that purpose. Then he told me be would 
iirst swear to me himself, that he would never stir from me as long as he 
lived, till I gave him orders ; and that he would take my side to the last 
drop of his blood, if there should happen the least breach of faith amon;; 
his countrymen. He told me they were all of them very civil, honest 
men, and they were under the greatest distress imaginable, having neither 
weapons or clothes, nor any food, but at the mercy and discretion of 
the savages ; out of all hopes of ever returning to their own country ; and 
that he was sure, if I would undertake their relief, they would live and 
die by me. 

Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve them, if possible, 
and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over to them to treat. But 
when we had got all things in readiness to go, the Spaniard himself start- 
ed an objection, which had so much prudence in it on one hand, and so 
much sincerity on the other hand, that I could not but be very well sa- 
tisfied In it; and, by his advice, putoff the deliverance of his comrades for 
at least half a year. The case was thus : He had been with us now about 
a montli during which time I had let him see in wliat manner I had pro- 
vided, with the assistance of Providence, for my support; and he saw evi- 
dently what stock of corn and rice I had laid up; which, though it was 
more than sufOcient for myself, yet it was not sufficient, without good 
husbandry, for my family, now it was increased to four; but much less 
would it be sufficient if his countrymen, who were, as he said, sixteen, 
still alive, should come over ; and, least of all, would it be sufficient to 
victual our vessel, if we should build one, for a voyage to any of the Chris- 
tian colonies of America ; so he told me he thought it would be more ad- 
visable to let him and the other two dig and cultivate some more land, as 
much as I rould spare seed to sow, and that wc should wait another har- 
vest, that we might have a supply of corn for his countrymen, when they 
should com^; for want might be a temptation to them to disagree, or not 
to think tliemseives delivered, otherwise than out of one difficulty into 
another. *'You know," says he, 'Uhe children of Israel, though they 
rejoiced at first for their being delivered out of Egypt, yet rebelled even 
against God himself, that delivered them, when they came to want bread 
in tlie wilderness." 

40 



146 Lire AND ABVENTUfttS 

His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, that 1 conld not 
bat be very well pleased with his proposal, as well as I was satisfied with 
his fidelity : so we fell to digging all four of us, as well as the wooden 
tools we were fiirrtlshed wilh permitted; and in about a month's time, by 
the end of which it was seed-lime, we had got as much land cured and 
trimmed op as we sowed two and twenty bushels of barley on, and six- 
teen jars of rice; which was, in short, all the seed we had to spare : nor, 
Indeed, did we leave ourselves barley sufficient for our own food, for the 
she months that we had to expect our crop ; that is to say, reckoning ftt>m 
the time we set our seed aside for sowing ; for it is not to be supposed it 
is six months in the ground in that country. 

Having now society enough, and our number being sufiident to put os 
out of fear of the savages, if they had come, unless tlieir number had been 
▼ery great, we went freely all over the island, whenever we found oc- 
casion; and as here we had our escape or deliverance upon our thoughts, 
it was impossible, at least for me, to have the means of it out of mine. 
For this purpose, I marked out several trees which I tlioaght fit for our 
work, and I set Friday and his father to cutting Uiem down; and then I 
caused the Spaniard, to whom I imparted my thoughts on that affair, to 
oversee and direct their work. I showed them with what indefatigable 
pains I had hewed a large tree into single planks, and I caused them to 
do the like, till they had made about a dozen large planks of good oak, 
near two feet broad, thirty-five feet long, and from two inches to four 
inches thick : what prodigious labour it took up, any one may una- 
gine. 

At the same time, I contrived to increase my little flock of tame goats 
as much as I could; and, for this purpose, I made Friday and the Spaniard 
go out one day, and myself with Friday the next day (for we took our 
turns), and by this means we got about twenty young kids to lireed up 
with the rest ; for whenever we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and 
added tliem to our flock. But, above all, the season for curing the grapes 
coming on, I caused such a prodigious quantity to be hung up in the sun, 
that, I believe, had we been at Alicant, where the raisins of the sun are 
cured, we could have filled sixty or eighty barrels ; and these, with our 
bread, was a great part of our food, and was very good living too, I assure 
3foa, for it is exceeding nourishing. 

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order : it was not the most 
plentiful increase I had seen in the island, but, however, it was enough to 
answer our end; for from tweaty-two bushels of barley we brought in and 
threshed out above two hundred and twenty bushels, and the like in pro- 
portion of the rice; which was store enough for our food to the next 
harvest, though all the sixteen Spaniards had been on shore with me; or if 
we had been ready for a voyage, it would very plentifully have victualled 
our ship to have carried us to any part of the world, that is to say, any 
part of America. When we had thus housed and secured our magazine 
of corn, we fell to work to make more wicker-ware, viz. great baskets, 
in which we kept it; and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous at 
this part, and often blamed me that I did not make some things for de- 
fence of this kmd of work ; but I saw no need of it. 
And now bavmg a full supply of food for all the guests I expected, I 



OF ROBINSON CaUSOE. 147 

g9Ve the Spaniard leaye to go over to the main, to see what he could do 
with those he had left hehind him there. I gave him a strict charge not 
to bring any man with him who would not first swear, in the presence of 
himself and the old savage, that he would no way ii\jure, fight witli, or 
attack the person he shoald find in the island, who was so kind as to send 
for them in order to their deliverance ; but that they would stand by him, 
9nd defend him against all such attempts, and wherever they went, 
would be entirely under and subjected to his command; and thai tliis 
should be put in writing, and signed with their hands. How they were 
to have done this, when I knew they had neither pen or ink, was a 
question which we never asked. Under these instructions, the Spaniard 
and the M savage, the father of Friday, went away in one of the canoea 
which they might be said to come in, or rather were brought in, when 
they came as prisoners to be devoured by the savages. I gave each of 
them a musket, with a firelock on it, and about eight charges of powder 
and ball, charging them to be very good husbands of both, and not to u^e 
either of them hot upon urgent occasions. 

This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used by me, in 
view of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven years and some days. I 
gave them provisions of bread, and of dried grapes, sufficient for them- 
selves for many days, and sufficient for all the Spaniards for about eight 
days' time; and wishing them a good voyage, I saw them go; agreeing 
with them about a signal they should hang out at their return, by which 
I should know them again, when they came back, at a distance, before 
they came on shore. They went away with a fair gale, on Uie day that 
the moon was at full, by my account in the month of October ; but as for 
an exact reckoning of days, after I had once lost it, I could never recover 
it again ; nor had I kept even the number of years so punctually as to be 
sure I was right; though, as it proved, when I afterwards examined my 
account, I found I had kept a true reckoning of years. 

It was no less than eight days I had waited for them, when a strange 
and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like has not periiaps 
been heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my hutch one morning, 
when my man Friday came running in to me, and called aloud, '^ Master, 
master, they are come !" I jumped up, and regardless of danger, I went out 
as soon as I could get my clothes on, through my Utile ji^rove, which, by the 
way, was by this time grown to be a very thick wood; I say, regardless 
of danger, I went without my arms, which was not my custom to do : but 
i was surprised, when turning my eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat 
at about a league and a half distance, standing in for the shore, with a 
shoulder of mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind blowing pretty fair 
to bring them in .- also I observed presently, that they did not come from 
that side which the shore lay on, but from the southernmost end of the 
island. Upon this, I called Friday in, and bade him lie close, for these 
were not the people we looked for, and that we might not know yet whether 
they were friends or enemies. In the next place, I went in Co fetch my 
perspective-glass, to see what I could make of them ; and having taken 
the ladder out, I climbed up to the top of the hill, as I used to do when 
I was apprehensive of any thmg, and to take my view the plainer, without 
bdng discovered, I had scarce set my foot npon the bill, when my eyq 



m tlPU AND ADVENTURES 

plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor, at aboat two leagues and a 
half d^tance from me, S. S. £. but not above a league and a half from the 
shore. By my observation, it appeared plainly to be an English ship, and 
the boat appeared to be an English long-boat. 

I cannot express the confusion I was in; though the joy of seeing 
a ship, and one that I had reason to believe was manned by my 
own countrymen, and consequently friends, was such as I cannot de- 
scribe; but yet I had some secret doubts hung about me, I cannot tell 
from whence they came, bidding me keep upon my guard. In the first 
place, it occurred to me to consider what business an English ship could 
have in that part of the world, since it was not the way to or from any 
part of the world where the English had any traffic; and I knew there 
had been no storms to drive them in there, as in distress; and that if they 
were really English, it was most probable that they were here upon no 
good design ; and that I had better continue as I was than fail into the 
hands of thieves and murderers. 

Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of danger which some« 
times are given him when he may think there is no possibility of its being 
real. That such hints and notices are given us, I believe few that have 
made any observations of things can deny; that they are certain disco- 
veries of an invisible world, and a converse of spirits, we cannot doubt; 
and if the tendency of them seems to be to warn us of danger, why 
should we not suppose they are from some friendly agent ( whether su- 
preme, or inferior and subordinate, is not the question), and that they are 
given for our good? 

The present question abundantly confirms me in the justice of this rea- 
soning ; for had I not been made cautious by this secret admonition , come 
it from whence it will, I had been undone inevitably, and in a far worse 
condition than before, as you will see presently. I had not kept myself 
long in this posture, but I saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they 
looked for a creek to thrust in at, for the convenience of landing ; however, 
as they did not come quite far enough, they did not see the little inlet 
where I formerly landed my rafts, but run their boat on shore upon the 
beach, at about half a mile irom me, which was very happy for me ; for 
otherwise they would have landed just at my door, as I may say, and 
would soon have beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps have plundered 
me of all I had. When they were on shore, I was hilly satisfied they 
were Englishmen, at least most of them ; one or two I thought were Dutch, 
but it did not prove so ; there were in all eleven men, whereof three of 
them I found were unarmed, and, as I thought, bound; and when the 
first four or five of them were jumped on shore, they took those three out 
of the boat, as prisoners : one of the three I could perceive using the most 
passionate gestures of entreaty, affliction, and despair, even to a kind of 
extravagance ; the other two, I could perceive, lifted up their hands some- 
times, and appeared concerned, indeed, but not to such a degree as the 
first. I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not what the 
meaning of it should be. Friday called out to me in English, as well as 
he could, '^O master ! you see English mans eat prisoner as well as sa- 
vage mans."-— "Why, Friday, " says I, " do you think they are going to 
eat them then ? "— " Ves, " says Friday, " they will eat them. "— " No, 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 149 

no," says I, ' 'Friday; I am afraid they will murder them^ indeed^ htA yo» 
may be sure they will not eat them. " 

All this while I had no thought of what the matter really was, but stood 
tremblin<; with the horror of the sight, expecting every moment when the 
three prisoners should be killed ; nay, once I saw one of the villains lift np 
his arm with a great cutlass, as the seamen call it, or sword, to strike 
one of the poor men ; and I expected to see him fall every moment; at 
which all the blood in my body seemed to run chill in my veins. I wished 
heartily now for my Spaniard, and the savage that was gone with him, 
or that I had any way to have come undiscovered within shot of them, 
that I might have rescued the three men, for I saw no fire-arms they 
had among them; but it fell out to my mind another way. Alter I had 
observed the outrageous usage of the three men by tlie insolent seamen, 
I observed the fellows run scattering about the island, as if they wanted 
to see the country. I observed that the three other men had liberty to 
go also where they pleased ; but they sat down all three upon the ground, 
very pensive, and looked like men in despair. This put me in mind of 
the first time when I came on shore, and began to lo6k about me ; how I' 
^ave myself over for lost, how wildly I looked round me; what dreadful 
apprehensions I had ; and how I lodged in the tree all night, for fear of 
being devoured by wild beasts. As I knew nothing, that night, of the sup* 
ply I wasio receive by the providential driving of the ship nearer the land 
by the storms and tide, by which I have since been so long nourished and 
supported ; so these three poor desolate men knew nothing bow certain 
of deliverance and supply they were, how near it was to them, and how 
effectually and really they were in a condition of safety, at the same time 
that they thought themselves lost, and their case desperate. So little do 
we see before us in the world, and so much reason have we to depend 
cheerfully upon the great Maker of the world, that he does not leave his 
creatures so absolutely destitute, but that, in the worst circumstances, 
they have always something to be thankful for, and sometimes are nearer 
their deliverance than tliey imagine ; nay, are even brought to theur de- 
liverance by the means by which they seem to be brought to their des- 
truction. 

It was just at the top of high water when these people came on shore, 
and partly while they rambled about to see what kind of a place they were 
in, they had carelessly staid till the tide was spent, and the water was 
ebbed considerably away, leaving their boat aground. They had left two 
men in the boat, who, as I found afterwards, havuig drank a little too 
much brandy, fell asleep ; however, one of them waking a little sooner 
than the other, and finding the boat too fiist aground for him to stur it, 
hallooed out for the rest, who where sl^aggling about; upon which they 
all soon came to the boat : but it was past all their strength to launch her, 
the boat being very heavy, and the shore on that side being a soft oozy 
sand, almost like a quicksand. In this condition, like true seamen, who 
are perhaps the least of all mankind given to forethought, Uiey gave it over, 
and away they strolled about the country again; and I heard one of them 
say aloud to another, calling them off from the boat, *< Why, let her alone, 
Jack, can't you ? she'll float next tide :" by which I was fully confirmed 
in the main inquiry of what cotiulrymen ^hey were. All this while 1 kept 



t<0 LIFE AlfB ABTENTORES 

myself very close, not once daring to stir oat of my castle, any farther 
than to my place of observation, near the top of the hill ; and very glad I 
Was to think how well it was fortified. I knew it was no less than ten 
hours before the boat could float again, and by that time it would be dark, 
and I might be at more liberty to see their motions, and to hear their dis- 
coarse, if they had any. In the mean time, I fitted myself up for a battle, 
as before, though with more caution, knowing I had to do with another 
kind of enemy than I had at first. I ordered Friday also, whom I had 
made an excellent marksman m\h his gun, to load himself with arms. I 
took myself two fowling-pieces, and I gave him three muskets. My figure, 
indeed, was very fierce ; I had my formidable goat-skin coat on, with 
the great cap I have mentioned, a naked sword by my side, two pistols 
in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder. 

It was my design, as I said above, not to have made any attempt till it 
was dark : but about two o'clock, being the heat of the day, I found that, 
in short, they were all gone straggling into the woods, and, as I thought, 
laid down to sleep. The three poor distressed men, too anxious for their 
condition to get any sleep, were, however, sat down under the shelter of 
a great tree, at about a quarter of a mile from me, and, as I thought, out 
of sight of any the rest. Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, 
and learn something of their condition; immediately I marched in the fi- 
gure as above, my man Friday at a good distance behind me, ai^formida- 
iHe for his arms as I, but not making quite so staring a spectrelike figure 
as I did. I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and then, before 
any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in Spanish, ^' What are ye, 
gentlemen?" They started up at the noise; but were ten times more 
confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth figure that I made. They 
made no answer at all, but I thought I perceived them just going to fly 
from me, when I spoke to them in English : '^ Gentlemen, " said I, *^ do 
not be surprised at me : perhaps you may have a .friend near, when yoo 
did not expect it. "— " He must be sent directly from Heaven then, " said 
one of them very gravely to me, and pulling off his hat at the same time, 
to me; '^for our condition is past the help of man. " — ^' All help is from 
Heaven, Sir," said I : *^But can you put a stranger in the way how to 
help you ? for you seem to be in some great distress. I saw you when 
you landed ; and when you seemed to make application to the brutes that 
came with you, I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you. " 

The poor maiv, with tears nmning down his face, and trembling, looking 
like one astonished, returned, <' Am I talking to God or man ? Is it a real 
man or an angel ? "«— ^^ Be in no fear about that, Sir, " said I ; ''if God 
had sent an angel to relieve you, he would have come better clothed, and 
armed after another manner than you see me : pray lay aside your fears; 
I am a man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist you : you see I have 
one servant only ; we have arms and ammunition ; tell us freely, can we 
serve you? What is your case?" — "Our case," said he, "Sir, is too 
long to tell you, while our murderers are so near us : but, in short, sir, I 
was commander of that ship, my men have mutinied against me; they 
have been hardly prevailed on not to murder me ; and at last have set me 
on shore in this desolate place, with these two men with me, one my 
mate, the other a passenger, where we expected to perish, believing the 



OF ROUNSON GRUSOil, 151 

place to be munhalMted* and know not yet what to think of it. "-^'^ Where 
are these brutes, your enemies? " said I : '^ Do you know where they are 
gone?" — '^ There tliey lie, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of trees; 
'^my heart trembles for fear ttiey have seen us, and heard you speak; if 
they have, they will certainly murder us all." — ^^ Have they any fire- 
arms ? " said I. He answered, ^^ they had only two pieces, one of which 
they left in the boat. " ^' Well then, " said I, ^^ leave the rest to me ; I 
see they are alt asleep, it is an easy thing to kill them all : but shall we 
rather take them prisoners?" He told me there were two desperate vil^ 
lains among them, tiiat it was scarce safe to show any mercy to; but if 
they were secured, he believed all the rest would return to their doty. 
Ji asked him which they were? He told me he cquld not at that distance 
distinguish them, bat he would obey my orders in any thing I would di- 
rect. ^^ Well, " says 1, ^4et us retreat out of their view or hearing, lest 
they awake, and we will resolve farther. " So tliey willingly went back 
with me, tiU tha woods covered us from them. 

'^Look you, Sir^ " said I, ^4f I venture upon your deliverance, are yoa 
willing to make two conditions with me ? " He anticipated my proposals, 
by telling me, that both he and the ship, if recovered, should be wholly 
directed and commanded by me in every thing; and, if the ship was not 
recovered, he would live and die with me in what part of the world so- 
ever I would send him ; and the two other men said the same. ^^ Well, " 
says I, '^mj conditions are but two : first, That while you stay in this is- 
land with me, you will not pretend to any authority here ; and if I put 
arms in your hands, you will, upon all occasions, give them up to me, 
and do no prejudice to me or mine upon this island; and, in the mean 
time, be governed by my orders : secondly, That if the ship is or may be 
recovered, you will carry me and my man to England, passage free. " 

He gave me all the assurances tliit the invention or faith of man could 
devise, that be would comply witli these most reasonable* demands ; and, 
besides, would owe his life to me, and acknowledge it upon all occasions, 
as long as he Uved. " ''Well then, " said I, ''here are three muskets for 
you, with powder and ball : tell me next what you think is proper to be 
done. " He showed all the testimonies of his gratitude that he was able, 
but offered to be wholly guided by me. I told him I thought it was hard 
venturing anything ; but the best method I could think of was to fire upon 
them at once, as they lay, and if any were not killed at the first volley, 
and offered to submit, we might save them, and so put it wholly upon 
God's providence to direct the shot. He said very modestly, that he was 
loath to kill them, if he could help it : but that those two were incorrigible 
villains, and had been the authors of all the mutiny in the ship, and if they 
escaped, we should be undone still ; for they would go on board and bring 
the whole ship's company, and destroy us all. "Well then," says I, 
" necessity legitimates my advice, for it is the only way lo save our lives." 
However, seeing him still cautious of shedding blood, I told him they 
should go themselves , and manage as they found convenient. 

In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them awake, and soon 
after we saw two of them on their feet. I asked him if eitlier of them 
were tlie heads of the mutiny ? He said, No. "Well then, " s:iid I, "you 
may let them escape ; and Providence seems to have awai:eiied them on 



152 UFE AND ADVENTURES 

purpose to save themselves — ^Now," says I, "if the rest escape you, it is 
your fault. " Auimated with this, he took the musket I had given him 
in bis hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two comrades with him, with 
each a piece in his hand; the two men who were with him going first, 
made some noise, at wliich one of the seamen who was awake turned about, 
aud seeing them coming, cried out to the rest ; but it was too late then, 
for the moment he cried out they fired; I mean the two men, the captain 
wisely reserving his own piece. They had so well aimed their shot at 
the men they knew, that one of them was killed on the spot, and the other 
very much wounded ; but not being dead, he started up on his feet, and 
called eagerly for help to the other; but the captain stepping to him, told 
liim it was too late to cry for help, he should call upon God to forgive his 
viliany ; and with that word knocked him down with the stock of his 
musket, so that he never spoke more : there were three more in the com- 
pany, and one of ihem was also slightly wounded. By this time I was 
come ; and when they saw their danger, and that it was m vain to resist^ 
they begged for mercy. The captain told them he would spare their 
lives, if they would give him an assurance of their abhorrence of the trea- 
chery they had been guilty of, and would swear to be faithful to him in 
recovering the ship, and afterwards in carrying her back to Jamaica, from 
whence they came. They gave him all the protestations of their sincerity 
that could be desired, and he was willing to believe them, and spare their 
lives, which I was not against, only that I obliged him to keep them bound 
hand and foot while they were on the island. 

While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's mate to the boat, 
with orders to secure her, and bring away the oars and sails, which they 
did : and by and by three straggling men, that were (happily for them) 
parted from the rest, came back upon hearing the guns fired : and seeing 
the captain, who was before their prisoner, now their conqueror, they 
submitted to be bound also ; and so our victory was complete. 

It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into one an- 
other's circumstances : I began first, and told him my whole history, 
which he heard with an attention even to amazement; and particularly at 
the wonderful manner of my being furnished with provisions and ammu- 
nition ; and indeed, as my story is a whole collection of wonders, it af- 
fected him deeply. But when he reflected from thence upon himself, and 
how I seemed to have been preserved there on purpose to save his life, 
the tears ran down his fece, and he could not speak a word more. After 
this communication was at an end, I carried him and his two men into 
iiiy apartment, leading them in just where I came out, viz. at the top of 
tide house, where I refreshed them with such provision as I had, and 
showed them all the contrivances I had made, during my long, long in- 
habiting that place. 

AH I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly amazing ; but, 
above all, the captain admired my fortification, and how perfectly I had 
concealed my retreat with a grove of trees, which, having been now 
planted near twenty years, and the trees growing much faster tlian iu 
Eni^land, was become a little wood, and so thick, that it was impas- 
sable in any part of it but at that one side where I had reserved my 
little winding passage into it. I told him this was my castle and my 



OF BOBINSON CRUSOE. iS5 

residence, bat that I had a seat in the coantry, as most princes hare, 
whither I conld retreat upon occasion, and I would show him that toa 
another time : but at present our business was to consider how to recover 
the ship. He agreed with me as to that ; but told me, he was perfectly 
at a loss what measures to take, for that there were still six and twenty 
hands on board, who, having entered into a cursed conspiracy, by which 
they had all forfeited their lives to the law, would be hardened in it now 
by desperation, and would carry it on, knowing that if they were 
subdued, they would be brought to the gallows as soon as they came to 
England, or to any of the English colonies; and that therefore there 
would be no attacking them with so small a number as we were. 

I mused for some time upon what lie had said, and found it was a very 
rational conclusion, and that therefore something was to be resolved o» 
speedily, as well to draw the men on board into some snare for their 
surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us, and destroying us. Upon 
this, it presently occurred to me, that in a little while the ship's CfeWy 
wondering what was become of their comrades and of the boat, would 
certainly come on shore in their other boat, to look for them; and that 
then perhaps they might come armed, and be too strong for us : this he 
allowed to be rational. Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to 
do was to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so that they might 
not carry her off; and taking every thing out of her, leave her so far 
useless as not to be fit to swim : accordingly we went on board, took 
the arms which were left on board out of her, and whatever else we found 
there, which was a bottle of brandy, and another of rum, a few biscuit 
cakes, a horn of powder, and a great lump of sugar in a piece of canvas 
(the sugar was five or six pounds) ; all which was very welcome to me^ 
especially the brandy and sugar, of which I had none left for many years. 

When we had carried all these things on shore (the oars, mast, sail, 
and rudder of the boat were carried away before, as above), we knocked 
a great hole in her bottom, that if they had come strong enough to master 
us, yet they could not carry off the boat. Indeed, it was not much in 
my thoughts that we could be able to recover the ship; but my view- was, 
that if they went away without the boat, I did not much question to mako 
her fit again to carry us to the Leeward Islands, and call upon our friends 
the Spaniards in my way, for I had them still in my thoughts. 

While we were Urns preparing our designs, and had first, by main 
strength, heaved the boat upon the beach so high that the tide would not 
float her off at high water mark, and besides, had broke a hole in her 
bottom too big to be quickly stopped, and were set down musing what 
we should do, we heard the ship fire a gun, and make a waft with her 
ensign as a signal for the boat to come on board : but no boatstirred; and they 
fired several times, making other signals for the boat. At last, when all 
their signals and firing proved fruitless, and they found the boat did not 
stir, we saw them, by the help of my glasses, hoist another boat out, and 
row towards the shore; and we found, as they approached, that there were 
no less than ten men in her, and that they had fire arms with them. 

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had a full view 
of them as they came, and a plain sight even of their faces; because the 
tide having 9et them a little to the east of the other boat, they rowed up 



IM LIFE AND AI>TE!mjHl» 

lUMto dlofe, to come to tbe same place where the other had .landed, «i4. 
where the boat lay; by this means^ I say, we had a full yiew of them^ 
and the captain knew the persons and characters of all the men in the 
boat| of whom, he said there were three very honest fellows, who, he was 
sore, were led into this conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered and 
frightened ; bat that as for the boatswain, who it seems was the chief of- 
ficer among them, and all the rest, Uiey were as outrageous as any of the 
ship's crew, and were no doubt made desperate in their new enterprise; 
and terribly appreb^wive be was that they would be loo powerful for us* 
I smiled at him, and told bin that men in our circumstances were past 
the operation of fear^ that seeing almost every condition that could be 
was better than that which we were supposed to be in, we ought to ex- 
pect that the consequence, whether death or life, would be sure to be a 
deliverance. I asked him what he thought of the cironmatances of mj 
life, and whether a deliverance were not worth venturmg for ? '^ And 
where, Sir," said 1, '^ is your belief of my being preserved here on pur- 
pose to save your life, which elevated you a little while ago? For my 
part," said I, '^ there seems to me but one thing amiss in all the prospect 
of it."-^« What is that ? " says he. " Why," said I, '< it is, that as you 
say there are three or four honest felbws among them, which should 
be spared : had they been all of the wicked part of the crew, I should 
ha^e thought God's providence had singled them out to deliver them 
into your hands; for depend upon it, every man tliat comes ashore is oar 
own, and ^all die or live as they behave to us." As I spoke this with 
a raised voice and cheerful countenance, I found it greatly encouraged 
him; so we set vigorously to our business. 

We had, upon the first appearance of the boat's coming from the ship, 
considered of separating our prisoners ; and we had, indeed, secured them 
effectually. Two of them, of whom the captam was less assured than <»r- 
dinary, I sent with Friday, and one of the three delivered men, to my 
cave, where they were remote enough, and out of danger of being beard 
or discovered, or of finding their way out of the woods if they could have 
deKvered themselves : here ffiey left them bound, but gave them provi- 
sions; and promised them, if they continued there quietly, to give them 
their liberty in a day or two ; but tliat if they attempted their escape, they 
should be put to death without mercy. They promised faithfully to bear 
theur confinement with patience, and were very thankful that they had 
such good usage as to have provisions and light left them, for Friday gave 
them candles (such as we made ourselves) for their comfort; and they did 
not know but that he stood sentinel over them at the entrance. 

The other prisoners had better usage; two of them were kept pinioned, 
indeed, because the captain was not free to trust them ; but the other two 
were taken into my service, upon the captain's reeonunendation, and 
upon their solemnly engaging to live and die with us ; so with them and 
(he three honest men, we were seven men well armed; and I made no 
doubt we should be able to deal well enough with the ten that were 
coming, considering that the captain had said there were three or four 
honest men among them also. As soon as they got to the place where 
their other boat lay, they ran their boat into the beach, and came all on 
shore, hauling the boat up after them, which I was glad lo see, for I was 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ISS 

afraid they would rather have left the hoat at an anchor some diltanc^ 
from the shore, with some hands in her to guard her, and so ve shouldi 
not he ahle to seize the boat. Being on shore, the first thing they did, 
they ran all to their other boat; and it was easy to see they were 
under a great surprise to find her stripped, as above, of all that wa^ 
in her, and a great hole in her bottom. After they had mused a while 
upon this, they set up two or three great shouts, hallooing with all their 
might, to try if they could make their companions hear; but all was to no 
purpose : then they came all close in a ring, and fired a volley of their 
small arms, which, indeed, we heard, and the echos made the woods 
ring; but it was all one; those in the cave we were sure could not hear^ 
and those in our keeping, though they heard it well enough, yet durst 
give no answer to them. They were so astonished at the surprise of this, 
that as they told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on board again to 
their ship, and let them know that the men were all murdered, and the 
long boat staved ; accordingly, they immediately launched their boat again, 
and got all of them on board. 

The captain was terribly amazed, and even confounded at this, believing 
they would go on board the ship again, and set sail, giving their comrades 
over for lost, and so he should still lose the ship, which he was in hopes 
we should have recovered; but he was quickly as much frightened the 
other way. 

They had not been long put off with the boat, but we perceived them 
all coming on shore again : but with this new measure in their conduct^ 
which it seems they consulted together upon, viz. to leave three men in 
the boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the country to look 
for their fellows. This was a great disappointment to us, for now we 
were at a loss what to do, as our seizing those seven men on shore would 
be no advantage to us if we let the boat escape; because they would then 
row away to the ship, and then the rest of them would be sure to weigh 
and set sail, and so our recovering the ship would be lost. However, we 
had no remedy but to wait and see what the issue of things might present. 
The seven men came on shore, and the three who remained in the boat 
put her off to a good distance from the shore, and came to an anchor to 
wait for them; so that it was impossible for us to come at them in the 
boat. Those that came on shore kept close together, marching towards 
the top of the little hill under which my habitation lay; and we could see 
them plainly though they could not perceive us. We could have been 
very glad they would have come nearer to us, so that we might have fired 
at them, or that they would have gone farther off, that we might come 
abroad. But when they were come to the brow of the hill, where they 
could see a great way into the valleys and woods, which lay towards the 
north-east part, and where the island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed 
till they were weary ; and not caring it seems to venture far from the 
diore, nor far from one another, they sat down together under a tree to 
consider of it. Had they thought fit to have gone to sleep there, as the 
other part of them had done, they had done the job for us; but they were 
too full of apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep, though they 
could not tell what the danger was they had to fear neither. 

The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this consultation of 



156 LIFE AND ADVENTDBES 

theirs, viz. that perhaps they would all fire a volley again, to endeavour 
ito make their fellows hear, and that we shoald all sally upon them, just 
^t the jancture when their pieces were all discharged, and they would 
•certainly yield, and we should have them without bloodshed. I liked 
this proposal, provided it was done while we were near enough to come 
(up to them before they could load their pieced again. But this event did 
not happen ; and we lay still a long time, very irresolute what course to 
take. At length I told them there would be nothing done, in my opi- 
nion, till night; and then, if they did not return to tlie boat, perhaps we 
might find a way to get between them and the shore, and so might use 
some stratagem with Ihem in the boat to get diem on shore. We waited 
•a great while, though very impatient for their removing ; and were very 
uneasy, when, after long consultations, we saw them all start up, and 
march down towards the sea : it seems they had such di'eadful apprehen- 
sions upon them of the danger of the place, that they resolved to go on 
board die ship again, give their companions over for lost, and so go on 
with their intended voyage with the ship. 

As soon as I perceived them to go towards the shore, I imagined it to 
be as it really was, that they had given over their search, and were for 
going back again ; and the captain, as soon as I told him my thoughts, 
was ready to sink at the apprehensions of it : but I presently thought of a 
^ratagem to fetch them back again, and which answered my end to a 
little. I ordered Friday and tlie captain's mate to go over the little creek 
westward, towards the place where the savages came on shore when 
Friday was rescued, and as soon as they came to a little risi|ig ground, at 
about half a mile distance, I bade them halloo out, as loud as they could, 
and wait till they found the seamen heard them; that as soon as ever they 
heard the seamen answer them, they should return it again; and then 
keeping out of sight, take a round, always answering when the others 
hallooed, to draw them as far into the island, and among the woods, as 
possible, and then wheel about again to me by such ways as I directed them. 

They were just going into the boat when Friday and the male hallooed : 
and they presently heard them, and answering, run along the shore west- 
ward, towards the voice they heard, when they were presently stopped 
by the creek, where the water being up, they could not get over, and 
called for the boat to come up and set them over; as, indeed, I expected. 
When they had set themselves over, I observed that the boat being gone 
a good way into the creek, and, as it were, in a harbour within the land, 
they took one of the three men out of her, to go along with them, and left 
only two in the boat, having fastened her to the stomp of a little tree on 
the shore. This was what I wished for ; and immediately leaving Friday 
and the captain's mate to their business, I took the rest with me, and 
crossing the creek out of their sight, we surprised the two men before 
they were aware; one of them lying on the shore, and the other being in 
the boat. The fellow on shore was between sleeping and waking, and 
going to start up; the captain, who was foremost, ran in upon him, and 
knocked him down ; and then called out to him in tlie boat to yield, or he 
was a dead man. There needed very few arguments to persuade a single 
man to yield, when lie saw five men upon him, and his comrade knocked 
down : besides, this was, it seems, one of the three who were no^ so 



hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore was easily ^f- 
snaded not only to yield, but afterwards to join very sincerely with cu. 
In the mean time, Friday and the captain's mate so well managed their 
business w^ith the rest, that they drew them, by hallooing and answering, 
from one hill to another, and from one wood to another, till they not only 
heartily tired them, but left them where they were very sure they could 
not reach back to the boat before it was dark i and, indeed, they were 
heartily tired themselves also, by the time they came back to us. 

We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the dark, and to 
fall upon them, so as to make sure work with them. It was several hours 
after Friday came back to me before they came back to their boat ; and we 
could hear the foremost of them, long before they came quite up, calling 
to those behind to come along ; and could also hear them answer, and 
complain how lame and tired they were, and not able to come any faster;: 
which was very welcome news to us. At length they came up to the 
boat : it is impossible to express their confusion when they found tlie boat 
fast aground in the creek, the tide ebbed out, and their two men gone. 
We could hear them call to one another in a most lamentable manner, 
telling one another they were got into an enchanted island; that either 
there were inhabitants in it, and they should all he murdered, or else 
there were devils and spirits in it, and they should be all carried away 
and devoured. They hallooed again, and called their two comrades by 
tlieir names a great many times, but no answer. After some time, we 
could see them, by the little light there was, run about, wringing their 
bands like men in despair, and that sometimes they would go and sit down 
in the boat to rest themselves; then come ashore again, and walk about 
again, and so the same thing over again. My men would fain have had 
me give them leave to fall upon them at once in the dark; but I was will- 
ing to take them at some advantage, so as to spare them, and kill as few 
of them as I could ; and especially I was unwilling to hazard the kiTling 
any of our men, knowing the others were very well armed. I resolved 
to wait, to see if they did not separate; and therefore, to make sure of 
them, I drew my ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday and the captain 
to creep upon their hands and feet, as close to the groimd as they could, 
that they might not be discovered, and get as near them as they could pos- 
sibly before they offered to fire. 

They had not been long in that posture, when the boatswain, who was 
the principle ringleader of the mutiny, and had now shown himself the 
most dejected and dispirited of all the rest, came walking towards them, 
with two more of the crew : the captain was so eager at having this prin- 
cipal rogue so much in his power, that he could hardly have patience to 
let him come so near as to be sure of him, for they only heard his tongue 
before : but when they came nearer, the captain and Friday, starting up 
on their feet, let fly at them. The boatswain was killed upon the spot; 
the next man was shot into the body, and fell just ny him, though he did 
not die till an hour or two after ; and the third run for it. At the noise of 
the fire, I immediately advanced with my whole army, which was now 
eight men, viz. myself, generallssmo ; Friday, my lieutenant-general; 
the captain and his two men, and the three prisoners of war whom we had 
trusted with arms. We came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that 



ii» LITE Aim ADviiNTimss 

they conld not see our number ; and I made the man they had left in the 
boat, who was now one of us, to call them by name, to try if I could 
bring them to a parley, and so might perhaps reduce them to terms ; which 
fell out just as we desired : for indeed it was easy to think, as their con- 
dition then was, they would be very willing to capitulate. So he calls out 
as loud as he could, to one of them, '^ Tom Smith ! Tom Smith ! " Tom 
Smith answered immediately, '^Is that Robinson ?'' For it seems he knew 
the voice. The other answered, ^' Ay, ay; for God's sake, Tom Smith, 
throw down your arms and yield, or you are all dead men this moment. " 
— '* Who must we yield to ? Where are they ? " says Smith again. " Here 
they are;" says he ; '^ here's our captain and fifty men with him, have 
been hunting you these two hours : the boatswain is killed. Will Fry is 
wounded;, and I am a prisoner; and if you do not yield, you are all 
lost.*'— '* Will they give us quarter then ? " says Tom Smith, " and we 
will yield.'' — ^' Fll go and ask, if you promise to yield," said Robinson : 
so he asked the captain; and the captain himself then calls out, ^* You, 
Smith, you know my voice ; if you lay down your arms immediately, and 
submit, you shall have your lives, all but Will Atkins." 

Upon this Will Atkins cried out, ^^For God's sake, captain, give me 
quarter; what have I done ? They have all been as bad as I :'* which, 
hy the way, was not true neither; for, it seems, this Will Atkins was 
the first man that laid hold of the captain, when they first mutinied, and 
used him barbarously, in tying his hands, and giving hira injurious lan- 
guage. However, the captain told him he must lay down his arms at 
discretion, and trust to the governor's mercy : by which he meant me, 
for they all called me governor. In a word, they all laid down their 
arms, and begged their lives ; and I sent the man that had parleyed with 
them, and two more, who bound them all; and then my great army of 
fifty men, which, particularly with those three, were in all Imt eight, 
came up and seized upon them, and upon their boat; only that I kept 
myself and one more out of sight for reasons of state. 

Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of seizing the ship : 
•nd as for the captain, now he had leisure to parley with them, he ex- 
postulated with them upon the villany of their practices with him, and at 
length upon the further wickedness of their design, and how certainly it 
must bring them to misery and distress in the end, and perhaps to the 
gallows. They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard for their 
lives. As for that, he told them they were none of his prisoners, but the 
conmiander's of the island; that they thought they had set him on shore 
in a barren, uninhabited island ; but it had pleased God so to direct them, 
that it was inhabited, and that the governor was an Englishman; that he 
might hang them all there, if he pleased ; but as he had given them all 
quarter, he supposed he would send them to England, to be dealt with 
diere as justice required, except Atkins, whom he was commanded by 
the governor to advise to prepare for death, for that he would be hanged 
in the morning. 

Though tliis was all but a fiction of his own, yet it had its de»red 
effect; Atkins fell upon his knees, to beg the captain to intercede with 
the governor for his life : and all the rest begged of him, for God'3 sake, 
(hat they might not be sent to England. 



J 



Ot KOBINSON CRUSOE. f M 

tt now occnrred to me, that the time of onr deliverance was come^ 
and that it would be a most easy thin^ to bring these fellows in to be 
hearty in getting possession of the ship ; so I retired in the dark from 
them, that they might not see what kind of a governor they had, and 
called the captain to me : when I called, as at a good distance, one of 
the men was ordered to speak again, and say to the captain, <* Captain, 
the commander calls for you; " and presently the captain replied, "Tell 
his excellency I am just a coming." This more perfectly amused them, 
and they all believed that the commander was just by with his fifty men. 
Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my project for seizing the 
ship, which he liked wonderfully well, and resolved to put it in execu- 
tion the next morning. But, in order to execute it with more art, and 
to be secure of success, I told him we must divide the prisoners, and that 
he should go and take Atkins, and two more of the worst of them, and 
send them pinioned to the cave where the others lay. This was com- 
mitted to Friday, and the two men who came on shore with the captain. 
They conveyed them to the cave as to a prison : and it was, indeed, a 
dismal place, especially to men in their condition. The others I ordered 
to my bower, as I called it, of which I have given a full description; and 
as it was fenced in, and they pinioned, the place was secure enough, 
considering they were upon their behaviour. 

To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was to enter Into a 
parley with them; in a word, to try them, and tell me whether he thought 
they might be trusted or no to go on board and surprise the ship. He 
talked to them of the injury done him, of the condition they were brought 
to, and that though the governor hdd given them quarter for their lives 
as to the present action, yet that if they were sent to England, they would 
all be hanged in chains, to be sure; but that if they would join in so 
just an attempt as to recover the ship, he would have the governor's 
engagement for their pardon. 

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be accepted by 
men in their condition ; they fell down on their knees to the captain, 
and promised, with the deepest imprecations, that they would be faithful 
to him to the last drop, and that they should owe tfieir lives to him, 
and would go with him all over the world ; that they would own him as 
a fether to them as long as they lived. " Well," says the captain, " I 
must go and tell the governor what you say, and see what I can do to 
bring him to consent to it." So he brought me an account of the temper 
he found them in, and that he verily believed they would be faithful. 
However, that we might be very secure, I told him he should go back 
again and choose out those five, and tell them, that they might see he 
did not want men, that he would take out those five to bie his assistants, 
and that the governor would keep the other two, and the three that were 
sent prisoners to the castle (my cave) as hostages for the fidelity of 
those five ; and that if they proved unfaithful in the execution, the five 
hostages should be hanged in chains alive on the shore. This looked 
severe^ and convinced them that the governor was in earnest ; however, 
they had no way left them but to accept it ; and it was now the business 
of the prisoners^ as much as of the captain, to persuade the other five to 
^ their daty, 



I<M) LIFE AND ADVENTURliS 

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition: first, The 
captain, his mate, and passenger : second, Then the two prisoners of the 
first gang, to whom, having their character from the captain, I had given 
their lilierty, and trusted them with arms : third, The other two that I 
had kept till now in my hower pinioned, but, on the captain's mQtion, 
had now released : fourth, These five released at last; so that they 
were twelve in ail^ besides five we kept prisoners in the cave for hos- 
tages. 

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with these hands on 
board the ship ; but as for me and my man Friday, I did not think it was 
proper for us to stir, having seven men left behind ; and it was employ- 
ment enough for us to keep them asunder, and supply them with victuals. 
As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them fast, but Friday went 
in twice a day to them, to supply them with necessaries; and I made 
the other two carry provisions to a certain distance, where Friday was 
(0 take it. 

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the cap- 
tain, who told them I was the person the governor had ordered to 
Jook after them ; and that it was the governor's pleasure they should 
not stir any where but by my direction; that if they did, they would 
be fetched into the castle, and be laid in irons : so that as we never 
suffered them to see me as a governor, I now appeared as another 
person, and spoke of the governor, the garrison, the castle, and the like, 
upon all occasions. 

Thecaptain now had no difficulty before him, but to furnish his two boats, 
stop the breach of one, and man themt He made hispassenger captain of one, 
yriih. four of the men; and himself, his mate, and five more went in the other; 
;and they contrived their busmess very well, for they came up to the ship 
about midnight. As soon as they came within call of the ship, he made Ro- 
l)inson hail them, and tell them they had brought off the men and the boat, 
J>nt that it was a long time before they had found them, and the like, holding 
them in a chat till they came to the ship*s side ; when the captain and 
the mate entering first, with their arms, immediately knocked down 
the second mate and carpenter with the but-end of theu: muskets, being 
very faithfully seconded by their men ; they secured all the rest that 
ivere upon the main and quarterdecks, and began to fasten the hatches, 
to keep them down that were below ; when the other boat and their 
men entering at the forechains, secured the forecastle of the ship, and 
the scuttle which wept down into the cook-room, making three men 
they found there prisoners. When this was done, and all safe upon 
deck, the captain ordered the mate, with three men, to break into the 
FOund-house, where the new rebel captain lay, who, having taken the 
alarm, had got up, and with two men and a boy had got fire-arms in 
their hands ; and when the niate with a crow split open the door, the 
new captain and his men fired boldly among them, and wounded the 
male with a musket ball, which broke his arm and wounded two more 
of the men, but killed nobody. The mate calling for help, rushed, 
however, into the round house, wounded as he was, and with his 
pistol shot the new captain through the head, the bullet entering at his 
mouth, and came out again behind one of his ears, so that he never 



6^ ROBIKdON CRUSOE* 161 

spoke a T^ord more ; upon Tirhich the rest yielded, and the ship was taken 
ei'fectually, witiiont any more lives lost. 

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered seven gans 
to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon with me to give me notice 
of his success, which yon may be sure I was very glad to hear, having 
sat watching upon the shore for it till near two o'clock in the morning. 
Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me down; and it having been 
a day of great fatigue to me, I slept very sound, till I was something 
surprised with the noise of a gun; and presently starting up, I heard a 
man call me by the name of Governor, Governor, and presently J knew 
the captain's voice ; when climbing up to the top of the hill, there he 
stood, and pointing to the ship, he embraced me in his arms. *'* My dear 
friend and deliverer," says he, '^ there's your ship, for she is all yours, and 
so are we, and all that belong to her." I cast my eyes to the ship, and 
there she rode within little more than half a mile of the shore; for they 
had weighed her anchor as soon as they were masters of her, and, the 
weather being fair, had brought her to an anchor just against the month 
of the little creek; and, the tide being up, the captain had brought the 
pinnace in near the place where I at first landed my rafts, and so landed 
just at my door. I was at first ready to sink down with the surprise, 
for I saw my deliveranee, indeed, visibly put into my hands, all things 
easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me away whither I pleased to 
go. At first, for some time, I was not able to answer him one word ; 
bat as he had taken me in his arms, I held fast by him, or I should have 
fallen to the ground. He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulls 
a bottle out of his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial, which he had 
brought on purpose for me. After I had drank it, I sat down upon the 
ground; and though it brought me to myself, yet it was a good while 
Before I could speak a word to hiin. All this time the poor man was in 
as great an ecstasy as I, only not under any surprise, as I was ; and he 
said a thousand kind and tender things to me, to compose and bring me 
to myself: but such was the flood of joy in my breast that it put all my 
spirits into confusion; at last it broke out into tears; and in a little 
while after I recovered my speech. I then took my turn, and embraced 
him as my deliverer, and we rejoiced together. I told him I looked upon 
him as a man sent from Heaven to deliver me, and that the whole 
transaction seemed to be a chain of wonders; that such things as these 
were the testimonies we had of a secret hand of Providence governing the 
world, and an evidence tliat the eye of an infinite power could search 
into the remotest corner of the world, and send help to the miserable 
whenever he pleased. I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness 
to Heaven; and what heart could forbear to bless Him, who had not only 
in a miraculous manner provided for me in such a wilderness, and in 
such a desolate condition, but from whom every deliverance must al- 
ways be acknowledged to proceed ? 

When we had talked a while, the captain told me he had brought me some 
littlerefreshment, such as the ship afforded, and such as the wretches that 
had been so long his masters had not plundered him of. Upon this he called 
aloud to the boat, and bade his men bring the things ashore that were 
for the governor ; and, imleed, it was a present as if I had been one that 

14 



102 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

vas not to be carried away with them, but as if I had been to dwell npon 
the island still. First, he had brought me a case of bottles fall of excel- 
lent cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira wine ( the bottles held 
two quarts each), two pounds of excellent good tobacco, twelve good 
pieces of the ship's beef, and six pieces of pork, with a bag of peas, and 
about an huudred weiglit of biscuit : lie also brought me a box of sugar, 
a box of flour, a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime juice, and 
abundance of other things. But besides these, and what was a thousand 
times more useful to me, he brought me six new clean shirts, six very 
good neckcloths, two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one 
pair of stockings, with a very good suit of clothes of his own, which had 
been worn bot very little ; in a word, he clothed me from head to foot. 
It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any one may imagine, to one 
in my circumstances ; but never was any thing in the world of that kind 
80 unpleasant; awkward, and uneasy as it was to me to wear such clothes 
at first. 

After these ceremonies were passed, and after all his good things were 
brought into my little apartment, we began to consult what was to be 
done with the prisoners we had; for it was worth considering whether we 
might venture to take them away with us or no, especially two of them, 
whom he knew to be incorrigible and refractory to the last degree ; and 
the captain said he knew they were such rogues that there was no obliging 
them, and if he did carry them away, it must be in irons, as malefactors, 
to be delivered over to justice at the first English colony he could come 
at; and I found that the captain himself was very anxious about it. Upon 
this I told him, that if he desired it, I would undertake to bring the two 
men he spoke of to make it their own request that he should leave them 
upon the island. ^'I should be very glad of that," says the captain, 
"with all my heart."— "Well," says I, "I will send for them up, and 
talk with them for you. " So I caused Friday and the two hostages, for 
they were now dbcharged, their comrades having performed their pro- 
mise; I say , I caused them to go to the cave, and bring up the Rve men, 
pinioned as they were, to the bower, and keep them there till I came. 
After some time, I came thither dressed in my new habit ; and now I was 
called governor again. Being all met, and the captain with me, I caused 
the men to be brought before me, and I told them I had got a full ac- 
count of their villanous behaviour to the captain, and how they had run 
away with the ship, and were preparing to commit farther robberies, but 
that Providence had ensnared them in their own ways, and that they 
were fallen into the pit which they had dug for others. I let them know 
that by my direction the ship had been seized; that she Idy now in the 
road; and they might see by and by, that their new captam had received 
the reward of his villany, and that they would see bun hanging at the 
yard-arm : that as to them, I wanted to know what they had to say why I 
should not execute them as pirates, taken in the fact, as by my commis- 
sion they coul^ not doubt but I had authority so to do. 

One of them answered ufi the name of the rest, that they had nothing 
to say but this, that when they were taken, the captain promised them 
their lives, and they humbly hnplored my mercy. But I told them I 
knew not what mercy to show them for as for myself, J had resolved to 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ^^ 

qnit the island with all my med, and had taken passage with the captain 
to go for England; and as for the capUin, he could not carry them to 
England, other than as prisoners, in irons, to be tried for mutiny and 
ninning away with the ship ; the consequence of which, Ihey most needs 
know, would be the gallows; so that I could not leil what was best for 
them, unless they had a mind to Uke their fate in the island • if ihev 
desired that, as I had liberty to leave the island, I had some inclination 
to give them their lives, if Uiey thought they could shift on shore Thev 
seemed very thankful for it, and said they would much rather venture to 
stay there than be carried to England to be hanged : so I left it on that 
issne. • 

However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of it as if he 
durst not leave them there. Upon this I seemed a little angry 'with the 
caplam, and told him that they were my prisoners, not his ; and that seeinir 
I had offered them so much favour, I would be as good as my word • and 
that If he did not think fit to consent to it, I would set them at liberlv as 
I foiind them • and if he did not like it, he might take them again if he 
could catch them. Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I accord- 
ingly set them at liberty, and bade them retire into the woods to tlie 
place whence they came, and I would leave them some firearms, some 
ammumtion, and some directions Iww they should live very well if thev 
thoi^ht fit. Upon thfe I prepared to go on board the ship; but lold the 
caplam I would stay that night to prepare my things, and desired him to 
go <m board, m the mean time, and keep all right in the ship, and send 
the boat on shore next day for me; ordering him, at all events, to cause 
the new caplam who was killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that these 
men might see him. 

WhOT the captain was gone, I sent for the men np to me to my apart- 
ment, and entered seriously mto diseouree with them on their circnm 
stances I told them I thought they had made a right choice; that if iSe 
captam had earned them away, they would certainly be hanged. I showed 
them the new captain hanging at the yard-arm of the Slip, and toM 
them ihey had nothing less to expect. ^' " 

When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I then told U.em 
I wouW let them m(o the story of my living there, and pat them into the 
7^ "/"*»Stt easy to them : accordingly, I gave them the whole his- 
tory of the place, and of my coming to It; showed ihem my fortification* 
the way I made my bread, planted my corn, cured mj T^Zd 
m a word, all that was necessary to make them easy. I told them the 
«toi7 a^so of the seventeen Spaniards that were to be expected, for whom 
Ilefta letter, and made them promise toireat them in common with them- 
selvM. Here It may be noted, that the captain had ink on board, who was 
greatly surprised that I nevj^r hit upon a way of making ink of charcoal 
•1^ water, or of something else, as I had done tWngs much more diffi- 

I left them my firearms, viz. five muskets, three fowling-pieces and 
three swoids. I had above a barrel and a half of powder left -for an Jr 
Oe first year or two I used but little, and wasted none. I gave thm^ I 
desarvtton of the way I managed the goats, and directions to milkTnd 
btten them, and to make both butter and cheese : m a won! i gave them 



m LIFE AND ADYEm^URHS 

every part of my own story; and told them I should prevail with the 
captain to leave them two harrels of gunpowder more, and some garden 
seeds, which I told them I would have been very glad of : also I gave 
them the bag of peas which the captain had brought me to eat, and bade 
them be sure to sow and increase them. 

Having done all this, I left them the next day, and went on board the 
ship. We prepared immediately to sail, but did not weigh that night. 
The next morning early, two of the five men came swimming to the ship's 
side, and making the most lamentable complaint of the other three, begged 
to be taken into the ship for God's sake, for they should he murdered, and 
begged the captain to take them on bo|rd, though he hanged them imme- 
diately. Upon this the captain pretended to have no power without me ; 
but after some difficulty, and after their soleihn promises of amendment, 
they were taken on board, and were some time after soundly whipped and 
pickled; after which they proved very honest and quiet fellows. 

Some time after this, the boat was ordered on shore, the tide being up, 
with the things promised to the men; to which the captain, at my inter- 
cession, caused their chests and clothes to be added, which they took, and 
were very thankful for. I also encouraged them, by telling Uiem that if it 
lay in my power to send any vessel to take them in, I would not forget them. 
When I took leave of this island, I carried on board, for reliques, the 
great goatskin cap I had made, my umbrella, and one of my parrots; also 
I forgot not to take the money I formerly mentioned, which had lain by 
me so long useless that it was grown rusty or tarnished, and could hardly 
pass for silver, till it had been a little rubbed and handled ; as also the 
money I found in tlie wreck of the Spanish ship. And thus I left the is- 
land, the 49th of December, as I found by the ship's aecount, in the 
year 1686, after I had been upon it eight and twenty years, two months, 
and nineteen days ; being delivered from this second captivity tlie same day 
of the month that I first made my escape in the long-boat, from among 
the Moors of Sallee. In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in £jig- 
land the 44lh of June, in the year 4687, having been thirty-five years 
absent. 

When I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger to aU the world as 
if I had never been known there. My benefactor and faithful steward, 
whom I had left my money in trust with, was aUve, but had had great 
misfortunes in the world ; was become a widow the second time, and very 
low in the world. I made her very easy as to what she owed me, assu- 
ring her I would give her no trouble; but on Uie contrary, in gratitude for 
her former care and feithfuhiess to me, I. relieved her as my fittle stock 
would afford ; which at that time would indeed allow me to do but little 
for her; but I assured her I would nerer forget her former kindness to me; 
nor did I forget her when I had sufficient to help her, as shaU be observ- 
ed in its proper place. I went down afterw&rds into Yorkshire; but my 
father was dead, and my mother and all the family extinct, except that I 
found two sisters, and two of the children of one of my brothers; and as 
I liad been long ago given over for dead, there had been no provision made 
lor me; so that, in a word, I found nothing to relieve or assist me, and 
tliat the little money I had would not do much for me as to settling in the 
world. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. I6S 

I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not expect ; and 
this was, that the master of the ship whom I had so happily deliveredy and 
by the same means saved the ship and cargo, having given a very hand- 
some account to the owners of the manner how I had saved the lives of 
the men, and the ship, they invited me to meet them and some other mer« 
chants concerned, and all together made me a very handsome compliment 
upon the subject, and a present of almost 2001. sterling. 

But after making several reflections upon' the circumstances of my life, 
and how little way this would go towards settling me in the world, I re- 
solved to go to Lisbon, and see if I might not come by some information of 
the state of my plantation in the Brazils, and of what was become of my 
partner, who, I had reason to suppose, had some years past given me over 
ifbr dead. With this view I took shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived in 
April following; my man Friday accompanying me very honestly in all 
these ramblings, and proving a most faithful servant upon all occasions. 
When I came to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry, and to my particular 
satisfaction, my bid friend the captain of the ship who first took me up at 
sea off the shore of Africa. He was now grown old, and had left off 
going to sea, having put his son, who was far from a young man, into his 
ship, and who still used the Brazil trade. The old man did not know me; 
and, indeed, I hardly knew him : but I soon brought him to my remem- 
brance, and as soon brought myself to his remembrance^ when I told him 
who I was. 

After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance between us, 
'I inquired, you may be sure, after my plantation and my partner. The 
old man told me he bad not been in the Brazils for about nine years; but 
that he could assure me, that when he came away, iny partner was living ; 
bat the trustees, whom I had joined with him to take cognizance of my 
part, were both dead : that, however, he believed I would have a very 
good account of the improvement of the plantation ; for that upon the ge- 
neral belief of my being cast away and drowned, my trustees had given 
in the acconnt of the produce of my part of the plantation to the procura- 
tor fiscal, who had appropriated it, in case I never came to claim it, one- 
third to the king, and two-thirds to the monastery of St. Augustine, to he 
expended for the benefit of the poor, and for the conversion of the Indians 
to the Catholic faith ; but that if I appeared, or any one for me, to claim 
the inheritance, it would be restored ; only that the improvement, or an- 
nual production, being distributed to charitable uses, could not be restor- 
ed : but he assured me that the steward of the king's revenue from lands, 
and the provedore, or stewai^ of the monastery, had taken great care all 
along that the incumbent, that is to say, my partner, gave every year a 
faithful account of the produce, of which they had duly received my 
moiety. I asked him if he knew to what height of improvement he had 
brought the plantation, and whether be thought it might be worth looking 
after ; or whether, on my going thither, I should meet with any obstruc- 
tion to my possessing my just right in the moiety ? He told me he could 
not tell exactly to what degree the plantation was improved; but this he 
knew, that my partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoying his 
part of it; and that, to the best of his remembrance, he had heard that 
t)ie king's third of my part, which was, it seems, granted away to soin^ 



166 .LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

Other iDonafit6ry or religious house, amounted to above two hundred moi- 
dores a year : that as to my being restored to a quiet possession of it, there 
was no question to be made of that, my partner being alive to witness my 
title, and my name being also enrolled in the register of the country; also 
he told me, that the survivors of my two trustees were very fair honest 
people, and very wealthy ; and he believed I would not only have their 
assistance for putting me in possession, but would find a very considerable 
sum of money in their hands for my account, being the produce of the 
farm while their fathers held the trust, and before it was given up, 99 
above; which, as lie remembered, was for about twelve years. 

I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this account, an4 
inquired of the old captain how it came to pass that the trustees diould 
thus dispose of my effects , when he knew that I had made my will, and had 
made him , the Portuguese captaiii, my universal heir, etc. 

He told me that was true ; but that as there was no proof of my being 
dead, he could not act as executor, until some certain account should 
come of my death; and, besides, he was not willing to intermeddle with 
a thing so remote : that it was true he had registered my will, and put ia 
his claim ; and could he have given any account of my being dead or alive 
he would have acted by procuration, and taken possession of the ingeino 
(so they called the sugar house), and have given his son, who was now at 
the Brazils, orders to doit. ^^But," says the old man, ^' I have one piece 
of news to tell you, which perhaps may not be so acceptable to you as 
the rest; and that is, believing you were lost, and all the world believing 
so also, your partner and trustees did offer to account with me, ui your 
oame, for the first six or eight years' t)rofits, which I received. There 
being at that time great disbursements for increasing the works, building 
an ingeino, and buying slaves, it did not amount to near so much as after- 
wards it produced : however," says the old man, ^^ I shall give you a true 
account of what I have received in all, and how I have disposed of it/' 

After a few days' farther conference with this ancient friend, he brought 
me an account of the first six years' income of my plantation, signed by 
my partner and the merchant-trustees, being always delivered in goods* 
viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests, besides rum, molasses, etc. which 
is the consequence of a sugar-work; and I found by this account, that every 
year the income considerably increased ; but, as above, the disbursements 
being large, tlie sum at first was small : however the ol^ man let me see 
Uiat he was debtor to me four hundred and seventy moidores of gold, 
besides sixty chests of sugar, and fifteen double rolls of tobacco, whidi 
were lost in his ship; he having been shipwrecked coming home to Lisboa, 
about eleven years after my leaving the place. The good man then 
began to complain of his misfortunes, and how he had been obliged to 
make use of my money to recover his losses, and buy him a share in a 
new ship. "However, my old friend," says he, " you shall not want a 
supply in your necessity ; and as soon as my son returns, you shall be 
fully satisfied. " Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me one 
hundred and sixty Portugal moidores in gold; and giving the writings of 
his title to the ship, which his son was gone to the Brazils in, of which 
he was a quarter-part owner, and his son another, he puts them both 
into my hands for security of the rest. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. tffC 

I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness of the poor man 
to be able to bear this; and remembering what he had done for me, how 
he had lalien me np at sea, and how generously he had used me on all 
occasions, and particularly how sincere a friend he was now to me, I 
could hardly refrain weeping at what he had said to mie; therefore I 
asked him if his drcumstances admitted him to spare so much money at 
that time, and if it woold not straiten him ? He told me he conid not say 
bat it might straiten him a little ; but, however, it was my money, and I 
might want it more than he. 

Every thing the good man said was full of affection, and I could hardly 
refrain from tears while he spoke; in short, I took one hundred of the 
moidores, and called for a pen and ink to give him a receipt for them : 
then I returned him the rest, and told him if ever I had possession of the 
plantation, I would return the other to him also (as indeed I afterwards 
did); and that as to the bill of sale of his part in his son's ship, I would 
not take it by any means; but that if I wanted the money, I found he wai 
honest enough to pay me; and if I did not, but came to receive what he 
gave me reason to expect, I would never have a penny more from him. 

When this was passed, the old man asked me if he should put me into 
a method to make my claim to my plantation? I told him I thought to 
go over to it myself. He said I might do so if I pleased ; but that if I did 
not, there were ways enough to secure my right, and immediately to ap- 
propriate the profits to my use : and as there were ships in the river of 
Lisbon just ready to go away to Brazil, he made me enter my name in a 
public register, with his affidavit, affirming, upon oath, that I was alive, 
and that I was the same person who took up the land for the planting the 
said plantation at first. This being regularly attested by a notary, and a 
procuration affixed, he directed me to send it, with a letter of his writing, 
to a merchant of his acquaintance at the plaoe ; and then proposed my 
staying with him till an account came of the return. «.. 

Never was any thing more honourable than the proceedings upon tifia 
procuration ; for in less than seven months I received a large packet fr^ 
the survivors of my trustees, the merchants, for whose account I went to 
sea, in which were the following particular letters and papers enclosed. 

First, There was the account-current of the produce of my farm w 
plantation, from the year when their fathers had balanced with my old 
Portugal captain, being for six years ; the balance appeared to be one 
thousand one hundred and seventy-four moidores in my favour. 

Secondly, There was the account of four years more, while they kept the 
elffects in their hands, before the government claimed the administration, 
as being the effects of a person not to be found, which they called civil 
death : and the balance of this, the value of the plantation increasing, 
amounted to nineteen thousand four hundred and fbrty-six cmsadoes, 
being about three thousand two hundred and forty moidores. 

Thirdly, There was the prior of St. Augustine's account, who had 
received the profits for above fourteen years; butnotbein? to account 
for what was disposed of by the hospital, very honestly declared he had 
eight hundred and seventy-two moidores not distributed, which he 
acknowledged to my account : as to the king's part, that refunded nothing. 
There was a letter of my partner's, congratulating me very affection- 



fe« LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ately upon my being alive^ giving me an account how the estate was 
improved, and what it produced a year; with a particular of the number 
of squares or acres that it contained, how planted, how many slaves 
there were upon it, and making two and twenty crosses for blessings, 
told me he had said so many Ave Marias to thank the blessed Virgin that 
I was alive; inviting me very passionately to come over and take posses- 
sion of my own; and, in the mean time, to give him orders to whom he 
should deliver my eflects, if I did not come myself; concluding with a 
hearty tender of his friendship^ and that of his family; and sent me, as a 
present, seven fine leopards' skins, which he had, it seems, received from 
Africa, by some other ship that he had sent thither, and who, it seems, 
had made a better voyage than I. He sent me also five chests of excellent 
sweetmeats, and a hundred pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so large as 
nioidores. By the same fleet, my two merchant trustees shipped me one 
thousand two hundred chests of sugar, eight hundred rolls of tobacco, and 
the rest of the whole account in gold. 

I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of Job was better 
than tlie beginning. It is impossible to express the flutterings of my very 
heart when I found all my wealth about me ; for as the Brazil ships come 
ail in fleets, the same ships which brought my letters brought my goods, 
and the effects were safe in the river before the letters came to my hand. 
In a word, I turned pale^ and grew sick ; and had not the old man run 
and fetched me a cordial, I'believe the sudden surprise of joy had overset 
natiYre, and I had died upon the spot : nay, after that, I continued very 
ill, and was so some hours, till a physician being sent for, and something 
of the real cause of my- illness being known, he ordered nae to be let 
blood; after which I had relief, and grew well : but I verily believe, if I 
had not been eased by a vent given in that manner to the spirits, I sfaM)uld 
have died. 

J was now master, all on a sudden, of above hye thousand pounds 
stiirling in money, ^nd had an esUte, as I might well call it, in the Bra- 
zigi, of above a thousand pounds a year, as sure as an estate of lands in 
England; and, in a word, I was in a condition which I scarce knew how 
to understand, or how to compose myself for the enjoyment of it. The 
first thing I did was to recompense my original benefactor, my good old 
captain, who had 1)een first charitable to me in my distress, kind to me 
in my banning, and honest to me at the end. I showed him all tliat 
was sent to me ; I told him, that next to the providence of Heaven, which 
disposed all things, it was owing to him; and that it now lay on me to 
reward him, which I would do a hundred fold : so I first returned to him 
the hundred moidores I had received of him; then I sent for a notary, 
and caused him to draw up a general release or discharge from the four 
hundred ^d seventy moidores, which he had acknowledged he owed 
me, in the fullest and firmest manner possible. After which I caused a 
procuration to be drawn, empowering him to be my receiver of the an- 
nual profits of my plantation, and appointing my partner to account with 
him, and make the returns by the usual fleets to him in my name; and a 
clause in the end, beuig a grant of one hundred moidores a year to him 
during his life, out of the effects, and fifly moidores a year to his son 
aft^r him, for his life : aiid thus { reqi^ited my old ms^n. 



OF ROBmSON CRUSOE. HS9 

I was now to consider which way to steer my eoarse next, and what to* 
do with the estate that Providence had thns pot into my bands; and'^ 
indeed, I had more care upon ray head now than I had in my silent state* 
of life in the island, where I wanted nothing but what I had, and had 
nothing but what I wanted; whereas I had now a great diarge upon me^. 
and my business was how to secure it. I had never a cave now to hide* 
*my money in, or a place where it might He without lock or key, till it 
grew mouldy and tarnished before any body would meddle with it; on 
the contrary, I knew not where to put it, or whom to trust with it. My 
old patron (he captain, indeed, was honest, and that was the only refuge 
I had. In the next place, my interest in the Brazils seemed to summon 
me thither ; but now I could not tell how to think of going thither till I 
had settled my affairs, and left my efSects in some safe hands behind me. 
At first I thought of my old friend the widow, who I knew was honesty 
and would be just to me; but then she was in years, and but poor, and, 
for aught I knew, might be in debt; so that, in a word, I had no way but 
to go back to England myself, and take my effects with me. 

It was some months, however, before I resolved upon this ; and there- 
fore, as I had rewarded the old captain fully, and to his satisfoction, who 
had been my former benefactor, so I began to think of my poor widow^ 
whose husband had been my first benefactor, and she, while it was in her 
power, my faithful steward and instructor. So the first thing I did, I got 
a merchant in Lisbon to write to his correspondent in London, not only 
to pay a bill, but to go find her out, and carry her in money a hundred 
pounds from me, and to talk with her, and comfort her in her poverty, by 
telling her she should, if I lived, have a further supply : at the same time 
I sent my two sisters in the country a hundred pounds each, &ey being, 
though not in want, yet not in very good circumstances; one haviag been 
married and left a widow; and Uie other having a husband not so kind 
to her as he should be. But among all my relations or acquaintances, I 
could not yet pitch upon one to whom I durst commit the gross of my 
stock, that I might go away to the Brazils, and leave things safe behind 
me ; and this greatly perplexed me. 

I had once^ mind to have gone to the Brazils, and have settled myself 
there, for I was, as it were, naturalized to the place; but I had some 
little scruple in my mind about religion, which insensibly drew me back. 
However, it was not religion that kept me from going there for the pre- 
sent ; and as I had made no scruple of being openly of the religion of Uie 
country all the while I was among them, so neither did I yet; only that, 
now and then, having of late thought more of it than formerly, when I 
began to think of living and dying among them, I began to regret niy 
having professed myself a. Papist, and thought it might not be the best 
religion to die with. 

But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that kept me from 
gouig to the Brazils, but that really I did not know with whom to leave 
my effects behind me; so I resolved, at last, to go to England with it, 
'where, if I arrived, I concluded I should make some acquaintance, or find 
some relations that would be faithful to me; and accordingly, I prepared 
to go to England with all my wealth. 

In order to prepare things for my going home, I first, the Brazil fleet 



ffm LIFE AMD ADYEMTCBSS 

being joet going away, resolved to ^ve answers suitable to tbe jost and 
fiiilbful accoant of things I bad from thence ; and, first, to the prior of 
St. Augustine, I wrote a letter full of thanks for their jnst dealings, and 
the offer of the eight hundred and seventy-two moidores which were 
undisposed of, which I desired might be given, five hundred to the mo- 
nastery, and three hundred and seventy-two to the poor, as the prior 
should direct; desiring the good padre's prayers for me, and the like. 
I wrote next a letter of tiianks to my two trustees, with all the acknow- 
ledgment that so much justice and honesty caUed for ; as for sending 
them any present, they were far above having any occasion for it. Lastly, 
I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his industry in the improving tbe 
plantation, and his integrity m increasing the stock of the works > giving 
him instnictions for his future government of my part, according to the 
powers I had left with my old patron, to whom I de^red him to send 
whatever became due to me, till he should hear from me more particu- 
larly ; assuring him that it was my intention not only to come to him, bu| 
to settle myself tliere for the remainder of my life. To this I added ^ 
very handsome present of some Italian silks for bis wife and two daughters, 
lor such the captain's son informed me he had ; with two pieces of fine 
English broad, eloth, the best I could get in Lisbon, five pieces of black 
baize, and some Flanders lace of a good value. 

Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and turned all my effects 
into good bills of exchange, my next difficulty, was, which way to go to 
England : I had been accustomed enough to the sea, and yet I bad « 
atrange aversion to go to England by sea at that time; and though I could 
give no reason for it, yet the difficulty increased upon me so much, that 
thou^ I had once shipped my baggage in order to go, yet I altered mj 
Httnd, and that not once, but two or three times. 

It ia tme, I had been very unfortunate by sea, and this might be one 
of the reasons ; but let no man slight the strong impulses of his owa 
thaughts in cases of such moment : two of the ships which I had singled 
out to go in, I mean more particularly singled out than any other, having 
put my things on board one of them, and in the other to have agreed 
with the captain; I say, two of these ships miscarried, viz. one was taken 
by the Algerines, and the other was cast away on the Slart,^near Torbay^^ 
and all the people drowned, except three; so that in either of those vessels 
I had been made miserable. 

Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot, to whom I 
communicated every thing, pressed me earnestly not to go by sea, but 
dther to go by land to the Groyne, and cross over the Bay of Biscay to 
I^ochelle, from whence it was but an easy and safe journey by land to 
Paris, and so to Calais and Dover; or to go up to Madrid, and so all the 
way by land through France. In a word, I was so prepossessed against 
my going by sea at all, except from Calais to Dover, that I resolved to 
travel all the way by land ; which, as I was not in haste, and did not 
value the charge, was by much the pleasanter way : and to make it more 
so, my old captain brought an English gentleman, the son of a merchant - 
in Lisbon, who was willing to travel with me ; after which we picked up 
two more English merchants also, and two young Portuguese gentlemen, 
the last going to Paris only ; so that in aU there were six of us, and five 



OF ROBINSON CRU80£« ffl 

servants; the two merchants and the two Portng^ese contentiag them* 
selves with one servant between two, to save the charge ; and as forme, 
I got an English sailor to travel with me as a servant, besides my maq 
Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable of supplying the place 
of a servant on the road. 

In this manner I set out from Lisbon ; and our company being very well 
mounted and armed, we made a little troop, whereof they did me the ho- 
nour to call me captain, as well because I was the oldest man, as be< 
cause I had two servants, and, indeed, was the original of the whole 
journey. 

As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals, so I shall trouble 
you now with none of my land Journal ^ but some adventures that hap* 
pened to us in this tedious and difiicult journey I must not omit. 

When we came to Madrid, we, being all of us strangers to Spain, 
were willing to stay some time to see the court of Spain, and to see what 
was worth observing; but it being the latter part of the summer, we has- 
tened away, and set out from Madrid about the middle of October ; but 
when we came to the edge of Navarre, we were alarmed, at several 
towns on the way, with an account that so much snow was fallen on the 
French side of the mountains, that several travellers were obliged to 
come back to Pampeluna, after having attempted, at an extreme hazard, 
to pass on. 

When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so indeed; and to 
me, that had been always used to a hot climate^ and to countries wfa^I 
could scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was insufferable : nor indeed 
was it more pamful than surprising, to come but ten days before out of 
Old Castile, where the weather was not only warm, but very hot, and 
immediately to feel a wind from the Pyrenean mountains so very keen, 
so severely cold, as to be intolerable, and to endanger benumbing and 
perishing of our lingers and toes. 

Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw the mountains all 
eovered with snow, and felt cold weather, which he had never seen or 
felt before in his life. To mend the matter, when we came to Pampe* 
luna, it continued snowing with so much violence and so long that the 
people said winter was come before its time; and the roads, which were 
difficult before, were now quite impassable; for, in a word, the snow lay 
in some places too tliick for us to travel, and being not hard frozen, as is 
the case in the northern countries, there was no going without being in 
danger of being buried alive every step. We stayed no less than twenty 
days at Pampeluna; when seeing the winter coming on, and no likeli- 
hood of its being better, for it was the severest winter all over Europt 
that had been known in the memory of man, I proposed that we should 
all go away to Fontarabia, and there take shipping for Bourdeaux, which 
was a very little voyage. But while I was considering this, there came 
in four French gentlemen, wlu) having been stopped on the French side 
of the passes, as we were on the Spanish, had found out a guide, who, 
traversing the country near the head of Languedoc, had brought tiiem 
over the mountains by such ways that they were not much incommoded 
with the snow ; for where they met with snow in any quantity, they said 
it was frozen hard enough to bear them and their horses. We sent lor 



172 LIFE AKD ADVENTURES 

tliu golde, who told tis be woold nndertake to carry ns the same way 
widi no hazard from the sdow, provided we were armed soffidently to 
proCect ooraelTes from wild beasts; for, be said, upon these great snows 
it was frequent for some wolves to 'show tfaenBehres at the foot of the 
mountains, being made ravenoos for want of food, the gronnd being 
covered with snow. We told him we were well enough prepared for 
such creatures as they were, if he would ensure us from a kind of two 
le^ed wolves, which, we were told, we were in most danger from, es- 
pecially on the French side of the mountains. He satisfied us that there 
was no danger of that kind in the way that we were to go, so we rea- 
dily agreed to follow him, as did also twelve other gentlemen, with their 
servants, some French, some Spanish, who, as I said, had attempted to 
^;o^ and were obliged to ecnne back again. 

Accordingly, we set out from Pampeluna, with our guide, on the 45tb 
fof November ; and, indeed, I was surprised, when, instead of going for- 
ward, he came directly back with us on the same road thai we came from 
Madrid, about twenty miles ; when having passed two rivers, and come 
into the plain country, we found ourselves in a warm climate again, where 
the country was pleasant, and no snow to be seen; but on a sudden, turn- 
ing to his left, be approached the mountains another way ; and though it is 
true the hills and precipices looked dreadful, yet he made so many tours, 
such meanders, and led us by such winding ways, that we insensibly 
passed the height of the mountains without being much encumbered with 
2the snow; and, all on a sudden, he showed us the pleasant and fruitful 
provinces of Langoedoc and Gascony , all green and flonrishmg, though, 
udeed, at a great distance, and we bad some rough way to pass still. 

We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed one whole 
^ay and a night so fost that we could not travel ; but he Ind us be easy ; 
we should soon be past it all : we found, indeed, that we began to des- 
cend every day, and to come more north than before ; and so, depending 
upon our guide, we went on. 

U was about two hours before night, when our guide being something 
before us, and not just in sight, out rushed three monstrous wolves, and 
after them a bear, out of a hollow way adjoining to a Uiick wood : two of 
the wolves made at the guide, and had he been far before us, he would 
have been devoured before we could have helped him ; one of them fas- 
tened upon his horse, and the other attacked the man with that violence, 
that he had not time or presence of mind enough to draw his pistol, but 
hallooed and cried out to us most lustily. My man Friday being neat me, 
I bade him ride up, and see what was the matter. ' As soon as Friday 
came in sight of the man, he haHooed out as loud as the other, ^' O mas- 
ter ! O master ! " but, like a bold fellow, rode directly up to the poor man, 
and with his pistol shot the wolf that attacked him in the head. 

It was happy for the poor man that it was my man Friday ; for he having 
been used to such creatures in his country, he had no fear upon him, but 
went close up to him and shot him, as above ; whereas any oilier of us 
would hav« fired at a farther distance, and have perhaps either missed the 
wolf, or endangered shooting the man. 

But it was enough to have terrified a bolder roan than I ; and, indeed, it 
alarmed all our company, when with the noise of Friday's pistol, we heard 



r 



OF R^BmSON CRUSOE. ri5 

on both sides the most dismal Iiowling of wolves^ and the iioiie, redou- 
bled by the echo of the mounlains, appeared to us as if there had been a 
prodigious number of them ; and perhaps there was not such a few as that 
we had no cause of appreliensioiis : liowever, as Friday had killed this 
wolf, the other that had fastened upon the horse left him immediately, 
and fled, without doing him any damage, having happily fastened upon 
liis head, where the bosses of the bridle had stuck in his teeth. But the 
man was most hurt; for the raging creature had bit him twice, once in 
the arm, and the other time a Utile above his knee; and though he had 
made some defence, he was just as it were tumbling down by the disorder 
of his horse, when Friday came up and shot the wolf. 

It is easy to suppose that at tlie noise of Friday's pistol we all mended 
onr pace, and rode up as fast as the way, which was very difficult, would 
give us leave, to see what was the matter. As soon as we came clear of 
the trees, which blinded us before, we saw clearly what had been the* 
rase, and how Friday had disengaged the poor guide, though we did noti 
presently discern what kind of isreatnre it was he had killed. 

But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in such a surprising' 
manner as that which followed between Friday and the bear, which gave? 
ns all, tliongh at first we were surprised and afraid for him, the greatest, 
diversion imaginable. As the bear is a heavy clumsy creature, and does: 
not gallop as the wolf does, who is swift and light, so he has two particu- 
lar qualities, which generally are the rule of his actions : first, as to men,, 
who are not his proper prey (he does not usually attempt them, except! 
they first attac^ him, unless he be excessive hungry, which it is probaUe; 
might now be the oase, the ground being covered with snow), if you. dtn 
not meddle with him, he will not meddle with you ; but then you isust 
take care to be very civil to him, and give him the road, for he is a very 
nice gentleman ; he. will not go a step out of his way for a prince ; na$, if 
you are really afraid, your best way is to look another way, and keep gpiag 
on; for sometimes if you stop, and stand still, and look steadfastly at kim, 
he takes it for an affront; but if you throw or toss anything at him, «id it 
hits him, though it were but a bit of stick as big as your finger, he Uiinks 
himself abused, and sets all other business aside to pursue his revenge, 
and will have satisfection in point of honour; — ^this is his first quality : 
th« next is, if he be once affronted, he will never leave you, night nor 
day, till he has his revenge, but follows at a good round rate till he over- 
takes you. 

My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we came up to him, 
he was helping him off from his horse, for the man was both hurt and 
frightened, when on a sudden we espied the bear come out of the wood, 
and a vast monstrous one it was, the biggest by far that ever I saw. We 
were all a little surprised when we saw him ; but when Friday saw him, 
it was easy to see joy and courage in the fellow's countenance : ^'O, O, O!"* 
says Friday, three times, pointing to him; ^*0 master! you give me te 
leave ; me shakee te hand with him ; me makee you good laugh. " 

I was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased : *'You fool," says I,, 
*' he will eat you up." — "Eatee me up ! eatee me up ! " says Friday, twice 
over again; '^ me eatee him up; me makee you good laugh; you all stay 
here, me show you good laugh. " So down he sits, and gets off his bools^ 



414 ttFE AND ADVENTUttfiS 

in a moment, and pats on a pair of pumps (as we call the flat shoes they 
-wear, and which he had in his pocket), gives my other servant his horse, 
and with his gan away he flew, swift like the wind. 

The bear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle with nobody^ 
till Friday c(HQing pretty near, calls to him, as if the bear coald under- 
stand him, **Hark ye, hark ye," says Friday, "me speakee with you.*' 
We followed at a distance, for now being come down on the Gascony 
aide of the mountains, we were entered a vast forest, where the country 
was plain and pretty open, though it had many trees in it scattered here 
and there. Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the bear, came np 
with him quickly, and takes up a great stone and throws it at him, and 
hit him just on the head, but did him no more harm than if he had thrown 
it against a wall ; but it answered Friday's end, for the rogue was so void 
of fear that he did it purely to make the bear follow him, and show as 
aome laugh, as he called it. As soon as the bear felt the blow, and saw 
bim, he turns about, and comes after him, taking devilish long strides, and 
shuffling on at a strange rate, so as would have put a horse to a middling 
gallop : away runs Friday, and takes his course as if he run towards us for 
help ; so we all resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and deliver my 
man ; though I was angry at him heartily for bringing the bear back upon 
as, when he was going about his own business another way : and espe- 
eially I was angry that he had turned the bear upon us, and then run away; 
and I called out, '^ You dog, is this your making us laugh ? Gome away, 
and take your horse, that we may shoot the creature. *' He heard me, 
and cried out, '^ No shoot, no shoot; stand still, and you g^t much laugh :" 
and as the nimble creature ran two feet for the bear's one, he turned on a 
gudden on one side of us, and seeing a great oak tree fit for his purpose, 
lie beckoned to us to follow; and doubling his pace, he gets nimbly up the 
tree, laying his gun down upon the ground, at about five or six yards 
from the bottom of the tree. The bear soon came to the tree, and we 
followed at a distance : the first thing he did, he stopped at the gan^ 
ametled to it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles into the tree, climbing 
like a cat, though so monstrous heavy. I was amazM at the folly, as I 
thought it, of my man, and could not fbr my life see anything to laugh at 
yet, till seeing the bear get op the tree, we all rode near to him. 

When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out to the small end 
of a large branch, and the bear got about half way to him. As soon as 
the bear got out to that part where the limb of the tree was weaker, — 
*' Ha ! '* says he to us, " now you see me leachee the bear dance : " so he 
fells a jumping and shaking the bough, at which the bear began to totter, 
but stood still, and began to look behind him, to see how he should get 
back : then, indeed, we did laugh heartily. But Friday had not done 
with him by a great deal ; when seeing him stand still, he calls out to 
him again, as if he had supposed the bear could speak English, ^^ What, 
you come no farther? pray you come farther;" so he left jumping and 
shaking the tree; and the bear, just as if he understood what he said, did 
eome a little farther; then he fell a jumping again, and the bear stopped 
again. We thought now was a good time to knock him in the head, and 
ealled to Friday to stand still, and we would shoot the bear : but he cried 
^ earnestly, <<0 pray I O pray! no shoot, me shoot by and thea : ** he 



or ROBASON GRt7S0£. 175 

l^ontd hare said by and by. However, to shorteB the story, Friday 
danced so much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that we had laughing 
enough, but still could not imagine wliat the fellow would do : for first 
we thought he depended upon shaking the bear off; and we found the 
bear was too cunning for that too ; for he would not go out far enough to 
be thrown down, but clings fast with his great broad claws and feet, so 
that we could not imagine what would be the end of it, and what the jest 
would be at last, fiut Friday put us out of doubt quickly : for seeing the 
bear cling fast to the bough, and that he would not be persuaded to come 
any farther, ^^ Well, well," says Friday, ^^you no come farther, me go; 
you no come to me, me come to you : " and upon this he goes out to the 
smaller end of the bough, where it would bend with his weight, and gen- 
tly lets himself down by it, sliding down the bough till he came near 
enough to jump down on his feet, and away he runs to his gun, takes it op, 
and stands still. '< Well," said I to bun, *' Friday, what will you do now ? 
Why don't you shoot hhn ?"— "No shoot," says Friday, " no yet; me 
shoot now, me no kill ; me stay, give you one more laugh : " and, indeed, 
so he did, as yon will see presently ; for when the bear saw his enemy 
gone, he comes back from the bough where he stood, but did it mighty 
cautiously, looking behind him every step, and coming backward till he 
got into the body of the tree ; then with the same hinder end foremost, he 
came down the tree, grasping it with his claws, and movmg one foot at 
a tune, very leisurely. At this juncture, and just before he could set his 
hind foot on the ground, Friday stepped up close to him, clapped the 
muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot him dead. Then the rogue 
turned about to see if we did not laugh ; and when he saw we were pleased, 
by our looks, he falls a laughing himself very loud. "So we kill bear 
in my country," says Friday. " So you kill tliem ?" says I, "why, you 
have no guns." — "No," says he, "no gun, but shoot great much long 
arrow." This was a good diversion to us; but we were still in a wild 
place, and our guide very much hurt, and what to do we hardly knew : 
the howling of wolves ran much in my head; and, indeed, except the noise 
I once heard on the shore of Africa, of which I have said something 
already, I never heard anything that filled me with so much horror. 

These things, and the approach of night, called us off, or else, as Friday 
would have had us, we should certainly have taken the skin of this mon- 
strous creature off, which was worth saving; but we had near three 
leagues to go, and our guide hastened us ; so we left him, and went 
forward on our journey. 

The ground was still covered with snow, though not so deep and dan- 
gerous as on the mountains; and the ravenous creatures, as we heard after- 
wards, were come down into the forest and plain country, pressed by 
hunger, to seek for food, and had done a great deal of mischief in the 
villages, where they surprised the country people, killed a great many of 
their sheep and horses, and some people too. We had one dangerous 
place to pass, which, our guide told us, if there were more wolves in the 
country, we should find them there ; and this was a small plain, surrounded 
with woods on every side, and a long narrow defile, or lane, which we 
were to pass to get through the wood, and then we should come to the 
village where we were to lodge. It was within half an hour of sunset when 



176 LltE mti ADVENTURES 

we entered the first wood, and a little after sunset when we came iiito the 
plain ; we met with nothing in the first wood, except that in a little plain 
within the wood, which was notabove two furlongs oyer, we saw fivegrea t 
wolves cro$s the road, fuH speed, one after another, as if they had been in 
•chase of some prey, and had it in view ; ihey took no notice of us, and were 
:gone out of sight in a few moments. tFpon this our guide, who by the way 
was but a faint-hearted fellow, bid ns keep in a ready posture, for he be- 
lieved there were more wolves a coming. We kept our arms ready, and our 
eyes about us ; but we saw no more wolves till we came through that wood, 
which was near half a league, and entered the f^aiu. As soon as we came 
into the plain, we had occasion enough to look about ns : the first object we 
met with was a dead horse, that is to say, a poor horse which the wolves had 
killed, and at least a dozen of them at work, we could not say eating of him, 
but picking of his bones rather ; for they had eaten up all the flesh before. 
We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast, neither did they lake 
much notice of us. Friday would have let fly at them, but I would not suffer 
hun by any means ; for I found we were like to have more business upon 
our hands than we were aware of. We were not gone half oyer the plain 
when we began to hear the wolves howl in the wooden our left in a fright- 
ful manner, and presently after we saw about a hundred coming on direcUy 
towards us, all in a body, and most of them in a line, as regularly as an 
^rmy drawn up by experienced officers. I scarce knew in what manner 
to receive them, but found, to draw ourselves in a close line was the only 
way ; so we formed in a moment : but that we might not have, too much 
rlnterval, I ordered that only every other man should fire, and that the 
•others who had not fired should stand ready to give them a second volley 
limmediatel}^, if they continued to advance upon us; and then that those 
who had fired at first should not pretend to load their fusees again, but 
tstand ready, every one with a pistol, for we were all armed wiUi a fusee 
and a pair of pistols each man ; so we were, by this method, able to fire six 
woUeys, half of us at a time : however, at present we had no necessity; for 
upon firing the first volley, the enemy made a full stop, being terrified as 
^ell with the noise as with the fire; four of them, being shot in the head, 
fcteopped; several others were wounded, and went bleeding off, as we 
cttuld see by the snow. I found they stopped, but did not immediately re- 
ftceat; whereupon, remembering that I had been told that the fiercest 
^cseatures were terrified at the voice of a man, I caused all the company to 
Siallooas loud as we could ; and I found the notion not altogether mistaken; 
ior japon our shout itiey began to retire, and turn about. I then ordered a 
aseeond volley to be fired intheu* rear, which put them to the gallop, and 
^way they went to the woods. This gave us leisure to charge our pieces 
«gain ; and that we might lose no time, we kept going : but we had but 
litUe more than loaded our fusees, and put ourselves in readiness, when 
we heard a terrible noise in the same wood on our left, only that it was 
farther onward, the same way we were to go. 

The night was coming on, and the light began to be dusky, which made 
it worse on our side ; but the noise increasing, we could easily perceive 
that it was the howling and yelling of those hellish creatures; and, on a 
fiudden, we perceived two or three troops of wolves, one on our left, one 
))ehind us, and one in our front, so that we seemed to be surrounded with 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, ill 

them : however, as they did not fall npon ns, we kept oar way forward, as 
fast as we conld make our horses go, which, the way being very rough, 
was only a good hard trot. In this manner we came in view of the en- 
trance of a wood, through which we were to pass, at the farther side of the 
plain; but we were greatly surprised, when coming nearer the lane orpass, 
we saw a confused number of wolves standing just at the entrance. On 
a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we heard the noise of a gun, 
and looking that way, out rushed a horse, with a saddle and a bridle on 
him, flying like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves aftw him full 
speed; indeed the horse had the heels of them, but as we supposed that 
he could not hold it at that rate, we doubted not but they would get up 
with him at last ; no question but they did. 

But here we had a most horrible sight ; for, riding up to the entranee 
where the horse came out, we found the carcasses of another horse and 
of two men, devoured by the ravenous creatures; and one of the men 
was no doubt the same whom we heard fire the gun, for there lay a gun 
just by him fired off; but as to the man, his head and the upper part of 
his body were eaten up. This filled us with horror, and we knew not 
what coarse to take ; but the creatures resolved us soon, for they gathered 
about us presently, in hopes of prey; and I verily believe there were 
tliree hundred of them. It happened very much to our advantage, that 
at the entrance into the wood, but a little way from it, there lay some 
large timber trees, which had been cut down the summer before, and I 
suppose lay there for carriage. I drew my little troop in among those 
trees, and placing ourselves in a line behind one long tree, 1 advised them 
all to alight, and keeping that tree before us for a breastwork, to stand 
in a triangle, or three fronts, enclosing our horses in the centre. We 
did so, and it was well we did ; for never was a more furious charge 
than the creatures made upon us in this place. They came on with a 
growling kind of noise, and mounted the piece of timber, which, as I 
said, was our breastwork, as if they were only rushing upon their prey; 
and this fury of theirs, it seems, was principally occasioned by their 
seeing our horses behind us. I ordered our men to fire as before, every 
other man; and they took their aim so sure, that they killed several of 
the wolves at the first volley ; but there was a necessity to keep a conti- 
nual firing, for they came on like devils, tliose behind pushing on those 
before. 

When we had fired a second volley of our fusees, we thought they 
stopped a little, and I hoped they would have gone off, but it was but a 
moment, for others came forward again; so we fired two volleys of our 
pistols ; and I believe in these four firings we had killed seventeen or 
eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many, yet they came on again. I 
was loath to spend our shot too hastily ; so I called my servant, not my 
man Friday, for he was better employed, for, with the greatest dexterity 
imaginable, he had charged my fusee and his own while we were en- 
gaged ; but, as I said, I called my other man, and giving him a horn of 
powder, I bade him lay a train all along the piece of timber, and let it 
be a large train. He did so; and had but just time to get away, when 
the wolves came up to it, and some got upon it, when I, snapping an 
uncharged pistol close to the powder, set it on fire : those that were upon 

42 



ITS UFE AND ADySNTURCS 

the timber were acorehed with it^ and six or seven of them Idl, or rather 
jomped in among ns^ with the force and fright of the fire ; we despatched 
these in m jnsiam, and the rest were so fnghiened with the light, which 
the night, for it was oow yerj near dark, made more terrible, tbat thef 
drew back a little; upon which I ordered onr last pistols to he fired off 
in one volley, and after that we gave a shout : upon this the wolves 
turned tail, and we sallied immediately upon near twenty lame ones; 
thai we found struggling on the ground, and fell a cutting them with 
Oor swords, which answered our expectation ; for the crying and howling 
they made was better understood by their fellows; so that they all fled 
and left us. 

We had, first and last, killed about threescore of them ; and had it 
been daylight, we had killed many more. The field of battle being thu s 
cleared, we made forward again, for we had still near a league to go. 
We heard the ravenous creatures howl and yell in the woods as we 
went, several times^ and sometimes we fancied we saw some of them, 
but the snow dazzling our ey<es, we were not certain ; hi ^bont an hoot 
more we eame to the town where we were to lodge, which we found in 
a terrible fright, and all in arms; for, it seems, the night before, the 
wolves and some bears had broke into the village, and put them in soeh 
terror, that they were obliged to keep guard night and day, but espe- 
cially in the mght, to preserve their cattle, and, uideed, thdr people. 

The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs swelled so mndi 
with the rankling of his two woonds, that he could go no farther ; so we 
were oMiged to take a new guide here, and go to Thoulonse, where we 
fwmd a warm dunate, a fruitful, pleasant country, and no snow, no 
wolves, nor any thing like them : but when we told our story at Thoo- 
louse, they told us it was nothing but what was ordipary in the great 
forest at the foot of the mountains, especially when the snow lay on the 
ground; but they inquired much what kind of a guide we had got, 
who would venture to bring us that way in such a severe season ; and 
told us it was surprising we were not all devoured. When we told 
them how we placed ourselves, and the horses in the middle, they blamed 
us exceedingly, and told us it was fifty to one but we had been all de- 
gtroyed ; for it was the sight of the horses which made the wolves so foh 
noos, seeing their prey; und that, at other times, they are really afraid 
of a gun; but being excessive hungry, and raging on that account, the 
eagerness to come at the horses had made them senseless of danger; and 
Chat if we had not, by the continued fire, and at last by the stratagem 
of the train of powder, mastered them, it had been great odds but that 
we had been torn to pieces : whereas, had we been content to have sat 
still on horseback, and fired as horsemen, they would not have taken 
the horses so much for their own, when men were on their backs, as 
^erwise ; and withal they told us, that at last^ if we had stood all to- 
gether, and left our horses, they would have been so eager to have de* 
voured them that we might have come off safe, especially having our fire- 
arms la our hands, and being so many in number. For my part, I was 
aever so sensible of danger in my life^ for seeing above tluree hundred 
devils come roaring and open-mouthed to devour us, and liaving nothmg 
!» shelter us or retreat tO; Igave myself over for lost; and^ asit was^I 



OF ftOBUfSON CRUSOE. 179 

ketiefe I ihall neYer care to cross those moimtaiiifl again ; I think I 
Wooklmuch rather go a thousand leagaes by sea, though I was sure to 
meet with a storm once a week. 

I have nothing nncommoa to Uke notice of in my passage through 
f ranecy nothing but what other travellers have given an account of with 
much more advantage than I can. I travelled from Thonlouse to Paris, 
and without any considerable stay came to Calais, and landed safe at 
Dover, the 44lh of January, alkerhaving a severe cold season to travel ui. 
I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had in a little time 
4JI. my new-discovered estate safe about me ; the bills of exdiange which 
I brought with me having been very currently paid. 

My prmcipal guide and privy counsellor was my good ancient widow ; 
who, in gratitude for the money I had sent her, thought no pains too 
much, nor care too great, to employ for me ; and I trusted her so entirely 
with every thing thai I was perfectly easy as to the security of my effects : 
and, indeed) I was very happy brom the beginning, and now to the end^ 
in the unspotted integrity of this good gentlewoman. 
. And now having resolved to diapose of my plantation in the Brazils, I 
wrote to my old friehd at Lisbon; who having offered it to the two 
l^ercbMits, the survivons of ^my trustees, who lived in the Brazils, they 
fooepted the offer, and remitted thirty-three thousand pieces-of-eight to 
a QprrespondenC of theirs at Lisbon, to pay for it. 

In return, I^igned the instrument of sale in the form which they sent 
fi^om Lisbon, and sent it to my old nun, who sent me thelHUs of ex- 
^ange for 5^,800 pieoes-of-eight for the estate; reserving the payment 
9f 400 moidoies a year to him ( tlie old man) daring his life, and 90 
moidores afterwards to his son for bis life, which I had promised them ; 
and which the plantation was to make good as a rent-charge. And 
thus I have given the first part of a life of fortune and adventure, a life of 
Providence's chequer*work, and of a variety whfeh the world will seldom 
be able toshow the like of : b^inning foolishly, but closing much more 
liappily than any part of it ever gave me leave so much as to hope for. 
, Any one would think, that in this state of complicated good fortune, 
I was past mnning any more hazards, and so indeed I had been, if other 
circumstances had concurred; but I was inured to a wandering 11/^, had 
no family,, nor many relations; nor, however rich, had I contracted 
much acquaintance; and though I had sold my estate in the Brazils, yet 
t could not keep that country out of my head, and had a great mmd to 
be npon the wing again; especially I could not resist the strong incH- 
Vatioiil had to see my island, and to know if the poor Spaniards were 
m being there. My true friaid, the widow, earnestly dissuaded me 
from it, and so Iwr prevailed with me, that, for almost seven years, she 
Invented my nuining abroad; during which time I took my two 
nephews, the children of one of my brothers, into my care; the eldest 
having something of his own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave him a 
settlement of some addition to his estate, after my decease. The other I 
put out to a captain of a ship : and after five years, finding him a sensible, 
bold, enterprising young fellow, I put him into a good ship, and sent him 
to sea : and this young fellow afterwards drew me in, as old as I was, 
to farther adventures myself. 



180 LIF£ AND ADVENTURES 

In the mean time, I in part settled myself here ; for, first of all, I mai*- 
ried, and that not either to my disadvantage or dissatisfaction, and had 
three children, t^ sons and one daughter; but my wife dying, and my 
nephew coming home with good success from a voyage to Spain , my in- 
clination to go abroad, and his importunity, prevailed, and engaged me 
to go in his ship as a private trader to the East Indies : this vm» in the 
year 4694. 

In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island, saw my successors 
the Spaniards, had the whole story of their lives, and of the villams I left 
tliere^ how at first they insulted the poor Spaniards, how they afterwards 
agreed, disagreed, united, separated, and how at last the Spaniards were 
obliged to use violence with them ; how they were subjected to the Spa- 
niards; how honestly the Spaniards used them; a history, if it were enter- 
ed into, as full of variety and wonderful accidents as my own part : parti- 
cularly also as to their battles with the Garibbeans, who landed several 
times upon the island, andas to the improvement they made upon the island 
itself; and how five of them made an attempt upon the main land, and 
brought away eleven men and five women prisoners; by which, at my 
coming, I found about twenty yonng children on the island* 

Here I stayed about twenty days; left them supplies of all neoessary 
things, and particularly of arms, powder, shot^ clothes, tools, and two 
workmen, which I brought from England with me; viz. a carpenter and 
a smith. 

Besides this, I shared the lands mto parts* with them, reserved to my- 
self the property of the whole, but gave them such parts respectively as 
they agreed on ; and, having settled all things with them, and engaged 
them not to leave the place, I left them there. 

From thence I touched at the Brazils, from whence I sent a bark, which 
I bought there, with more people, to the island ; and in it, besides other 
supi^ies, I sent seven women, being such as I found proper for service, or 
for wives to such as would take them. As to the Englishmen, I promised 
them to send them some women from England, with a good cargo of ne- 
cessariesy if they would apply themselves to planting; which I afterwards 
could not perform. The fellows proved very honest and diligent, after 
they were mastered, and had their properties set apart for them. I sent 
them also from the Brazils five cows, three of them being big with calf, 
some sheep, and some hogs, which, when I came again, were considerably 
increased. 

But all these things, with an account how three hundred Garibbees 
came and invaded them, and ruined their plantations, and how they fought 
with that whole number twice, and were at first defeated and one of them 
killed ; but at last a storm destroying their enemies' canoes, they famished 
or destroyed almost all the rest, and renewed and recovered the possession 
of their plantation, and still lived upon the island. 

All these things, with some very surprising incidents in some new ad- 
ventures of my own, for ten years more, I shall give a farther account of in 
another part. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. I8f 

That homely proverb used on so many occasions in England, y\z. 
^^Tbat what is bred in the bone will not go out of the flesh,'' was never 
more verified than in the story of my life. Any one woald think that, 
after thirty-five years' affliction, and a variety of unhappy circumstances, 
which few men, if any, ever went through before, and after near seven 
years of peace and enjoyment in the fulness of all things, grown old, and 
when, if ever, it might be allowed me to have had experience of every 
state of middle life, and to know which was most adapted to make a man 
completely happy ; I say, after all this, any one would have thought that 
the native propensity to rambling, which I gave an account of in my first 
setting out in the world to have been so predominant in my thoughts, 
should be worn out, the volatile part be fully evacuated, or at least con- 
densed, and I might, at sixty-one years of b^, have been a little inclined 
to stay at home, and have done venturing life and fortune any more. 

Nay, farther, the common motive of foreign adventures was taken away 
in me; for I had no fortune to make; V had nothing to seek .* if I had 
gained ten thousand pounds, I had been no richer; for I had already suf- 
ficient for me, and for those I had to leave it to; and that I had was visi- 
bly increasing ; for, having no great family, I could not spend the income 
of what I had, unless I would set up for an expensive way of living, such 
as a great family, servants, equipage, gaiety, and the like, which were 
things I had no notion of, or inclination to ; so that I had nothing indeed • 
U> do but to sit still, and fully enjoy what I had got, and see it hMrease 
daily upon my hands. Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or aV 
least not enough to resist the strong inclination I had to go abroad again,' 
which hung about me Hke a chronical distemper. In particular, the de- 
sire of seeing my new plantation in the island, and the colony I left there^ 
ran in my head continually. I dreamed of it all night, and my imagina- 
tion ran upon it all day; it was uppermost in all my thoughts; and my 
fency worked so steadily and strongly upon it that I talked of it in my 
sleep; in short, nothing could remove it out of my mind : it even broke so 
violently into all my discourses that it made my conversation tiresome, for 
I could talk of nothing else; all my discourse ran into it, even to imper- 
tinence ; and I saw it in myself. 

I have often heard persons of good judgment say, that all the stir people 
make in the world about ghosts and apparitions is owing to the strength 
of imagination, and the powerful operation of fancy in their minds; that 
there is no such thing as a spirit appearing, or a ghost walking, and the 
like : that people's poring affectionately upon the past conversation of their 
deceased friends so realizes it to them that they are capable of fancying, 
upon some extraordinary circumstances, that they see them, talk to them, 
and are answered by them, when, in truth, there is nothing but shadow 
and vapour in the thing, and they really know nothing of the matter. 

For my part, I know not to this hour whether there are any such things 
as real apparitions, spectres, or walking of people after they are dead; or 
whether there is any thing in the stories they tell us of that kind more than 
the product of vapours, sick minds, and wandering fancies : but this I 
know, that my imagination worked up to such a height, and brought me 
into such excess of vapours, or what else I may call it, that I actually 
supposed myself often upon the spot, at my old casUe, behind the trees ; 



itt LIFE AMD ADVKNTUHISS 

8 aw my rid Spaniard, Friday's father, and the reprobate sailors I left upon 
the island ; nay, I Uncled I talked with them, and looked at them steat^ 
dily, though I was broad awal^e, as at persoim just before me; and this I 
did till I often frightened mysejf with the images my fancy represented t« 
me. One time, in my sleep, I bad the Tillany of tiie three pirate sailoit 
80 liYely related to me by the first Spaniard and Friday's father that it was 
smprising; they told me bow tbey barbarously attempted to murder ali 
the Spaniards, and that they set fire to the provisions they had laid ap, oil 
purpose <o distress and starve them; things that I had never heard of^ and 
that indeed were never all of tjiem true in fact ; but it was so warm in mjr 
imagination, and so realized to me, that, to the hour I saw tliem, I cohHE 
not be persuaded but that it was, or would be, true; also how I resented 
it, when tbe Spaniard complained to me ; and how I brouglit them to jus*- 
tice, tried them before me^ and ordered them all three to be hanged* 
What there was really in this shall be seen in its place : 4at however I 
came to form such things in my dream, and what secret converse of spirits 
injected it, yet there was, I say, much of it true. I own, tliat this dream 
hid nothing in it literally and specifically tme; but the general part waa 
so tme, the base, villanoos behaviosr of these three hardened rogues wa« 
such, and had been so much worse than all I can describe, that the dream 
had too much similitude of the fact ; and as I would afterwards hate pu-^ 
nished them severely^ so, if I had banged them all, I had been much in 
the right, and even siiould have been justified both by the laws df God 
and man. But to return to my story : In this kind of temper I lived some 
X^ars ; I bad no enjoyment of my life, no pleasant hours, no agreeable di« 
version, but what had something or other of this in it; so that my wifie, 
who saw my mind wholly bent upon it, told me very seriously one night^ 
tlMt she b^ieved there was som^ secret powerful impulse of Providence 
upon me, which had determined me to go thither again; and that she 
found nothing hindered my going, but my being engaged to a wife and 
childrem She told me, that it was true she could not think of parting 
with me : but as she was assnred, that if she was dead it would be tbe 
first thjsig I W4mld do ; so, as it seemed to her that the thing was deter- 
mined above, she would not be the only obstruction ; for, if I thought fit» 
and resolved to go— Here she found me very intent upon her words» 
and that I looked very earnestly at her, so that it a little disordered hery 
and she stopped. I asked her why she did not go on, and say out wha^ 
she Was giving to say ? But I peroeived that ber heart was too full, and 
some tears stood in ber eyes. '^ jSpeak out, my dear, " said I ; '' are yod 
willing I should go? "«^^No, " says she, very affectionately, ^* I am to 
from willing; but if you are resolved to go," says she, '^ and rather than 
I would be the only hinderapce, i will go with you : for though I think it 
a most preposterous thing for one of your years, and in your condition, 
yet, if it must be," said she, again weeping, *^ I would not leave you; 
Ibr, if it be of Heaven, you most do it; there is no resisting it : and ii 
Heaven make it your duty to go, he will also make it mme to go with 
yon, or otherwise dispose of me, that I may not obstruct it. " 

This affiectionate behaviour of my wife's brought me a little out of the 
vapours, and I began to consider what Lwas doing; I corrected my wan- 
derhig fiincy, and began to argue with myself sedatdy, what busioeas I 



OF ROimSCM CAUSOK. i$$ 

had, after tlireescore years, and after soch aUftsof teclioiisfiaSategs aoi 
4i8ast«s, and dosed in so happy and easy a manner; I say^ what business 
had I to rfish into new hazards, and pnt myself npon adVentnres fit only 
for youth and poverty to run into? 

With those thoughts I considered my new engagement; that I had i 
wife, one child horn, and my wife then great with diild of another : that 
I had all the world ooald giye me, and htfd no need to-seek hanrd M 
gain; that I was declining in years, aiid ought to think ts^ket of leaving 
what I had gained than of seeking to Increase it ; Chat as to wliat my wife 
bad said of its being an impulse from Heaven, aii4lhat'it should he my 
Aity to go, I had no notion ei that •: so, after mailer* of these cogitations, t 
straggled with the power of my imagination, reasoned myself ont of it, as 
I beliieve peoplermay alwayb do inlikie efases'iKheyvrill t and, in a word, 
I conquered it ; composed myself with shch arguinents> as occurred to my 
thoughts, and which my present oondilion fhrnished me plentifully vrith; 
and i^articularly, as the most-^ectual method^ I veiolved to divert myself 
with other things, and to engage^ in some business that might effectuaUy 
tie me up from any nMNre exeursiens of this kind; for I found that thing 
return upon me chiefly when I was idle, and had nothing to do, nor any 
tbifigof moment immediately before me. To this purpose I booght a little 
fivm in the county of Bedford, and resolved to remove myself thither. I 
had a little convenient house upon it ; and the land about it, I found, vras 
capable of great improvement; and it was many ways suited to my indi* 
Baden, whkh del^btedin cultivating, managing, planting, and improving 
of land ; and partienkfty^ being an inland country, I was removed from 
ChnvMsing among sailors^ and thingsrelatingto the remote part of the world. 

In a word, I went down to ray fiirm, settled my fbmily^ bought me 
ploughs, harrows, a cart, waggon, horses, cows and sheep, and*^ setting 
seriously to work, became, in one half year, a m«re country gentle- 
man : my thoughts were entirely taken up in managing my servants, 
cultivating thegromd, enclosing, planting, eto. ; and I lived, asl Ihou^t, 
the most agreeable life that nature was capable of directing, or that a 
man always bred to misfortunes was capable of retreating tO; 

IlSinqsdupon my own land; I had no rent to pay, was limited by no 
arttdes; ilceuld puM up or cut down as I pleased : what I planted was 
for myself, and what I improved was for my family; and having thus left 
offthelhoughtsof wandering,! had not the least discomfort in any part of 
life as to this world. Now I thought indeed thit I enjoyed the middle 
slate of life which my father so earnestly recommended to me, and 
lived a kind of heavenly life, something like what is described by the 
poet, upon the snbject of a country life— 

" Free from vices, free from care, 

" Age has no pain, and youth no snare." 

But, in the middle of all this felicity, one blow firom unseen Provi- 
dence unhmged mo at once; and not only made a breach upon me 
inevitable and incurable, but drove me, by its consequences, into a deep 
relapse of the wandering disposition, whidi, as I may say, being born in 
my very blood, soon recovered its hold of me, and, like Ihe returns of a 
violent distemper, came on with an irresistible force upon me, so that 



fM LITE MJXD ADVEKTURES 

nothing jQOOlcl make any more impiession npoa me. This Mow was the 
loss of my wife. It i». not my bu^ess here to write an elegy upon my 
wife, g'm a diaracter of her particular virtues, and make my court to 
the sex by the flattery of a funeral sermon. She was, in a few words, 
the stay of all my affaicsy the centre of all my enterprises, the engine 
tba$, by jberprndenee, redoced aoe to that happy compass I was in, from 
Ihe iHO^ epK(r.a)^ant and ruinous project that fluttered in my head, as 
abov^^.and ii^jDore to guide my rambling genius than a mother's tears, 
a,fathi^'& iOBlnieUonsy ia friend's counsel^ or all my own reasoning powers 
ei^uld' 40b . I was happy in listening to her tears, and in being moved by 
{ter entreaties ; and to the last degree desolate and dislocated in the world 
by the Iqss of her. 

When she was gone, the world looked awkwardly ronnd me. I was 
as mudi a stranger in it, in my thoughts, as I was in the Brazils, when I 
first went on shore tliere^ and as much alone, except as to the assistance 
of servants, as I was in my island. I knew neither what tb think nor 
what to do. I saw the world busy around me ; one part labouring for 
bread, another part squandering in vile excesses or empty pleasures, 
equally iriiserable, because the end they, proposed still fled from them ; 
for the men of pleasure every day surfeited of their vice, and heaped up 
worjc for sorrow and repentance; and the men of labour spent their 
strength in daify struggling for bread to maintain the vital strength they 
laboured with : so living in a daily circulation of sorrow^ living but ta 
work, and working but to live, as if daily bread were Ibe enly end of 
w€^Tispme life, and a wearisome life the only otioasion of daily bread. 

Ti!his put me in mmd of the life I<Jivedin my kii^om, the island, 
where I suffered no more corn to grow, because I did not want it : and 
bred no more goats, because I had no more use for them ; where the 
money lay in the drawer till it grew mouldy,^ and had scarce the favour 
to be looked upon in twenty years. 

All these things, had I improved them as I ought to have done, .and as 
reason and religion had dictated to me, would have tajDght me to search 
farther than human enjoyments for a full felicity;, and that there was 
something which certainly was the reason and end of life, superior to 
all these things, and which was either to be possessed, or at least hoped 
for, on this side the grave* 

But my sage counsellor was gone ; I was like a ship wilhont a pilot, 
that could only runt afore the wi^d ; my thoughts ran all away again 
into the qld affair ; my bead was quite turned with the whimsies of foreign, 
adventures'; .and all the pleasant, innocent amusements of my farm, my 
garden, my cattle, and my family, which before entirely possessed me, 
were nothing to me, had no relish, and were like music to one that has 
no ear, or food to one that has no taste : in a word, I resolved to leave 
off housekeeping, let my farm, and return to London ; and, in a few 
months after, I <Hd so. 

When I came to London, I was slill as uneasy as I was before ; I had 

no relish for the place, no employment in it, nothing to do but to saunter 

about like an idle person, of whom it may be said he is perfectly useless 

in God's creation, and it is not one farthing's matter to the rest of his 

k ind whether he be deader alive. This also was the tiling which, of all 



OF KOBmSON CRtJSOE. 185 

circamstances of life, was the most my aversion, who had heen all my 
days used to an active life; and I would often say to myself, ^'A state 
of Idleness is the very dregs of life: " and indeed I thought I was much 
more suitably employed when I was twenty-six days making me a deal 
hoard. 

It was now the beginning of the year l€95, when my nephew, whom, 
as I have observed before, I bad Inrought up to the sea, a;nd had made 
him commander of a ship, was come home from a short voyage to 
Bilboa, being the first he had made. He came to me, and told me that 
some merchants of his acquaintance had been proposing to him to go a 
voyage for them to the East Indies and to China, as private traders."^ 
'^ And now, uncle," says he, ^^if you will go to sea with me, I will 
engage to land you upon your old habitation in the island: for we are to 
touch at the Brazils." 

Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a future state, and of the 
existence of an invisible world, than the concurrence of second causes 
with the ideas of things which we form in our minds, perfectly reserved, 
and not communicated to any in the vi^orld. • 

My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper of wandering was 
returned upon me, and I knew nothing of what he had in hh thought to 
say, when that very morning, before he came to me, I had, in a great 
deal of confusion of thought, and revolving every part of my circumstances 
in my mind, come to this resolution, viz. that I would go to Lisbon, 
and consult with my old sea-captain ; and so, if it was rational and 
practicable, I would go and see the island again, and see what was 
become of my people there. I had pleased myself with the thoughts of 
peopling the place, and carrying inhabitants from hence, getting ft patent 
tot the possession, and I knew not what; when, in the middle of all this, 
in comes my nephew, as I have said, with his project of carrying me 
thither in his way to the East Indies. 

I (caused awhile at his words, and, looking steadily at him, ^' What 
devil," said I, "sent you on this unlucky errand ?" My nephew stared; as 
if he had been frightened, at first ; but perceiving that I was not much 
displeased with the proposal, he recovered himself. ^^ I hope it may not 
be an unlucky proposal. Sir," says he; 'M dare say you would be pleased 
to see your new colony there, where yon once reigned with more felicity 
than most of your brother monarchs in the world." 

In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my temper, that is to say, 
the prepossession I was under, and of which I have said so much, that 
I told him, in a few words, if he agreed with the merchants, I would 
go with him : but I told him I would not promise to go any farther than 
my own island. **^ Why, Sir," says he, " you don't want to be left there 
again, I hope?" — "Why," said I, " can you not take me op again on 
your return?" He told me it would not be possible to do so ; that the 
merchants would never allow him to come that way with a laden ship 
of such value, it being a month's sail out of his way, and might be three 
or four. " Besides, Sir, if I should miscarry," said he, "and not return at 
all, then you would be just reduced to the condition you were in before." 

This was very rational ; but we both found out a remedy for it; which 
was^ to carry a framed sloop on board the ship, which being Uken iu 



f tfl tlFE AKB ADVENTURfiS 

{liecesy and shipped on board the ship, nught, by the help of some car- 
penters, whom we agreed to carry with os, be set up again in the island, 
and finished, fit to go to sea, in a few days. 

I was not long resolving; for indeed the importnnities of my nephew 
joined so effectually with my inclination that nothing could oppose me j 
on the other hand, my wife beiog dead, I had nobody concerned them- 
selves so much for me as to persuade me to one way or the other, except 
my ancient good friend the widow, who earnestly struggled with me lo 
consider my years, my easy circumstances, and the needless hazards of a 
long voyage; and, above all, my young children. But it was all tp fiQ 
purpose ; — ^I had an irresistible .desire to the voyage ; and I told her I 
thought there was something so uncommon in the impressions I had upoa 
my mind for the voyage that it would be a kind of resisting Providence 
if I should attempt to stay at home . after which she ceased her expostit*- 
lations, and joined with me, not only in making provision for my voyage, 
but also in settling my family affaurs for my absence> and providing (^ 
the education of my children. 

In order to this, I made my will, and settled the estate I had in saeb 
a manner for my children, and placed in such bands, that I was per- 
fectly easy and satisfied they would have justice done tbem, whatever 
might befall me : ai^d for their education, I left it wholly to the widow, 
with a sufficient maintenance to herself for her care : all whi<^h she 
riclily deserved; for no mother could have taken more care in their 
education, or understood it better; and as she lived till I came home» I 
^Iso lived to thank her for it. 

. My nepl^ew was ready to sail about the beginning of January, 4694-^; 
and I, with my man Friday, went on board in the Downs the 8th : 
having, besides that sloop which I mentioned above, 9 very considerable 
cargo of all kinds of necessary things for my colony; which, if I did 
not find in good condition, I resolved to leave so. 

First) I carried with me some servants, whqm I pnrposjed to place 
there .as inhabitants, or at least to set on work X^ere^ upon my accouii^^ 
wiiile I stayed, and either to leave them there or carry them forward^ as 
th^y would appear willing; particularly, I carried two carpenters> .^ 
smit^,' and a very handy, mgenious fisUow, who was a cooper fry trade^ 
apd was also a general mechanic; for he was dexterous at making 
wheels, and hand-mills to grind corn, was a good turner, and a good 
pot-maker ; he also made any thing that w^ proper to paake of .earth or 
of wood; in a word, we called him our Jack of all trades. Wild 
these J carried a tailor, who had offered himsjelf to go a passenger tQ 
the East Indies with my n^phev^, but afterwards consented to My on 
our new plantation; and proved a most necessary, handy fellow, aa 
could be desired, in many other businesses besides that of his trade ; for» 
as I observed formerly, Necessity arms us for all employments. . 

My cargo, as near as I can recollect, for I have not kept account of 
the particulars, consisted of a sufficient quantity of linen, and some 
English thin stuffs, for clothing the Spaniards tliat I expected to find there; 
and enough of them, as, by my calculation, might comfortably supply 
them for seven years : if I r^ember right, the materials I carried for 
clothing tbem, with gloves, hats, shoes^ stockings^ and all such things aa 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. m 

they oonid vant for wearing, amounted to above two hnndred ponnds, 
ineloding some beds, bedding, and honsehold staff, partfcnlarljr kitehen 
htensils, wiUi pots, kettles, pewter, brass, etc. and near a' hnndred ponndi 
more in ironwork, nails, tools of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, ani 
every necessary thing I could think of. 

I carried also a hnndred spare arms, muskets, and fdsees ; besides some 
pistols, a considerable quantity of shot of all sizes, three or four tons of 
lead, and two pieces of brass cannon ; and, because I knew not what 
time and what extremities I was providing for, I carried a hundred barrels 
of powder, besides swords, cntlasses, and the iron part of some pikes and 
lialberts : so that, in short, we had a large magazine of all sorts of stores \ 
and I made my n^hew carry two small quarter-deck guns more than h^ 
wanted for his ship, to leave behind if there was occasion ; thit, when w^ 
eame there, we might build a fort, and man it against all sorts of enemies t 
and, mdeed, I at first thought there would be need enough for all, and 
mnch more, if we hoped to maintain our possession of the island; as shall 
be seen in the course of that story. ^ 

I had not snch bad luck in this voyage as I had been used to meet with ; 
and therefore shall have the less occasion to interrupt the reader, who 
perhaps may be impatient to hear how matters went with my oolony : 
yet some odd accidents, cross winds, and bad weather, happened on this 
first setting out, which made the voyage longer than I expected it at first s 
and I, who had never made but one voyage, viz. my first voyage to 
Guinea, in which I might be said to cortie back again as the voyage was 
at first designed, began to think the same ill fate attended me; and that I 
was bom lobe never contented with b^ing on shore, and yet to be always 
unfortunate at sea. 

Contrary winds first put ns to the northward, and we were obliged to 
put in at Galway, in Ireland, where we lay vrindbound two and twenty 
days; but we had this satisfaction with the disaster, that provisions were 
here exceedingly dieap, and in the utmost plenty; so that while we lay 
here, we never touched the ship's stores, but rather added to them. 
Here, also, I took in several live hogs, and two cows, with their calves; 
which I resolved, if I had a good passage, to put on shore in my island; 
feat we found occasion to dispose otherwise of them. 

We set out on the 5th of February from Ireland, and had a very fair gale of 
wind forsome days. As I remember, it might be about the 20lh of Februa- 
ry, in the evening late, when the mate, having the watch, came into the 
round-house, and told us he saw a flash of fire, and heard a gun' fired; and 
while he was telling us of it, a boy came in, and told us the boatswain heard 
afkiother. This made us all run out upon the quarter-deck, where, fot' a 
While, we heard nothing ; but in a few minutes we saw a very great Kght^ 
and found that there was some very terrible fire at a distance r irnme^ 
diately we had recourse to our reckonings, in which we all agreed, that 
there could be no land that way in which the fire showed itself, no, not 
for five hundred leagues, for it appeared at W. N. W. Upon this we 
concluded it must be some ship on fire at sea; and as, by our hearing the 
noise of guns just before, we concluded that it could not be fer off, we 
stood directly towards it, and were presently satisfied we should discover 
if^ because the farther we sailed, the greater the light appeared ; though^ 



188 LIFE AND ADVETOtJRES 

the weather being hazy, we could not perceive any thing bat the light 
for a while. In about half an hour's sailing, the wind being fair for us, 
though not much of it, and the weather clearing up a little, we could 
plainly discern that it was a great ship on fire, in the middle of the sea. 

I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not at all ac- 
quainted with the persons engaged in it : I presently recollected my 
former circumstances, and in what condition I was in, when taken up by 
the Portuguese captain; and how much more deplorable the circum- 
stances of the poor creatures belonging to that ship must be, if they had 
no other ship in company with them. Upon this, I immediately ordered 
that five guns should be fired one soon after another; that, if possible, we 
might give notice to them that there was help for them at hand, and that 
they might ^deavour to save themselves in their boat; for though we 
could see the flames of the ship, yet they, it being night, could see no- 
thing of us. 

We lay by. some time upon this, only driving as the burning ship drove, 
waiting for daylight; when, on a sudden, to our great terror, though we 
had reason to expect it, the ship blew up in the air ; and immediately, that 
is to say, in a few minutes, all the fire was out, that is to say, the rest of 
the ship sunk. This was a terrible and indeed an afflicting sight, for the 
sake of the poor men; who, I concluded, must be either all destroyed in 
the ship, or be in the utmost distress in their boat, in the middle of the 
ocean; which, at present, by reason it was dark, I could not see. How- 
ever, to direct them as well as I could, I caused lights to be hung out in all 
the parts of the ship where we could, and which we had lanthoms for, and 
kept firing guns all the night long; letting them know, by this, that there 
was a ship not far off. 

About eight o'clock in the morning, we discovered the ship's boats by 
the help of our perspective-glasses; found thwe were two of them, both 
thronged with people, and deep in the water. We perceived they rowed, 
the wind being against them; that they saw our ship, and did their utmost 
to make us see them. 

We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know wq saw them, 
and hung a waft out, as a signal for them to come on board ; and then 
made more sail, standing directly to them. In little more than half an 
hour we came up with them ; and, in a word, took them all in, being no 
less than sixty-four men, women, and children; for there were a great 
many passengers. 

Upon the whole, we found it was a French merchant ship of three hun- 
dred tons, home-bound from Quebec, in the river of Canada. The master 
gave ns a long account of the distress of his ship; how the fire began in the 
steerage, by the negligence of the steersman; but, on his crying out for 
help, was, as every body thought, entirely put out; but they soon found 
that some sparks of the first fire had gotten into some part of (he ship so dif*' 
ficult to come at that they could not effectually quench it; and afterwards 
getting in between the timbers, and within the ceiling of the ship, it pro- 
ceeded into the hold, and mastered all the skill and all the application they 
were able to exert. 

They had no more to do then but to get into tlieir boats, which, to their 
gf eat comfort, were pretty large ; being their Ipng-boat, and a great ^a|op^ 



6r ROBINSON CEUSd£. 489 

besides a small skiff, which was of no great service to ihem, other than to 
get some freshwater and provisions into her, after they had secured their 
lives from the fire. They had, indeed, small hope of their lives by getting 
into these boats, at that distance from any land ; only, as they said well, 
that they were escaped from the fire, and a possibility that some ship might 
happen to be at sea, and might take them in. They had sails, oars, and a 
compass, and were pireparing to make the best of their way back to New- 
foandland, the wind blowing pretty fair, for it blew an easy gale at S. E. 
by E. They had as much provision and water, as, with sparing it so as to 
be next door to starving, migiu support them about twelve days; in which, 
if they had no badweatlier and no contrary winds, the captain said he 
hoped he might get to the Banks of Newfoundland, and might perhaps take 
some fish, to sustain them till they might go on shore. But there were so 
many chances against them in all these cases, such as storms, to overset and 
founder them ; rains and cold, to benumb and perish their limbs; contrary 
winds, to keep them out and starve them, that it must have been next to 
miraculous if they had escaped; 

In the midst of tlieir consternation, every one being hopeless and ready 
to desfiair, the captain, with tears in his eyes, told me they were on a 
sudden surprised with the joy of hearing a gun fire, and after that four 
more ; these were the five guns which I caused to I>e fired at first seeing 
the light. This revived their hearts, and gave them the notice, which, 
as al)ove, I desired it should, viz. that there was a ship at hand for their 
help. It was upon the hearing of these guns that they took down their 
masts and sails : the sound coming from the windward, they resolved to 
lie by till morning. Some time after this, hearing no more guns, they 
fired three muskets, one a considerable while after another; but these, 
the wind being contrary, we never heard. 

Some time after that again, they were still more agreeably surprised 
with seeing our lights, and hearing the guns which, as I have said, I 
caused to be fired all the rest of the night : this set them to work with 
their oars, to keep their boats ahead, at least, that we might the sooner 
come up with them; and, at last, to then: mexpressible joy, they found we 
saw them. 

It is impossible for me to express the several gestures, the strange ec- 
stasies, the variety of postures, which these poor delivered people ran into, 
to express the joy of their souls at so unexpected a deliverance. Grief 
and fear are easily described ; sighs, tears, groans, and a very few motions 
of the head and hands, make up the sum of its variety; but an excess of 
joy, a surprise of joy, has a thousand extravagances in it : there were 
some in tears; some raging and tearing themselves, as if they had been 
in the greatest agonies of sorrow ; some stark raving and downright lu- 
natic; some ran about the ship stamping with their feet, others wrmging 
their hands; some were dancing, some singing, some laughing, more 
crying; many quite dumb, not able to speak a word; others sick and vo- 
miting; several swooning and ready to faint; and a few were crossing 
themselves, and giving God thanks. 

I would not wrong them neither; there might be many that were thank- 
ful afterwards, but the passion was too strong for them at first, and they 
were not able to master it; they were thrown into ecstasies and a kind of 



IM LIFE AND ADVENTUASS 

phrensy ; and it was bat a yery few that were oomposed and serious ki 
their joy. 

Perhaps, also, the case may have some addition to it from the particular 
drcumstance of that nation they belonged to; I mean the French, whose 
temper is allowed to be more volatile, more passionate, and more sprightly, 
and their spirits more flaid, than in other nations. I am not philosopher 
enoagh to determine the cause ; but nothing I had ever seen before came 
up to it. The ecstasies poor Friday, my trusty savage, was in, when he 
found his £sither in the boat, came the nearest to it; and the surprise of 
the master and his two companions, whom I delivered from the villains 
that set them on shore in the island, came a little way towards it; but 
nothingwas to compare to this^ either that I saw in Friday, or anywhere 
else in my life. 

It is further observable, that these extravagances did not show themr 
selves, in that different manner I have mentioned, in different per80B3 
only ; but all the variety would appear, in a short succession of moments, 
in one and the same person. A man that. we saw this minute dumb, and 
as it were stupid and confounded, would the next minute be dancing iind 
hallooing like an antic; and the next moment be tearing his hair, or putt- 
ing his clothes to pieces, and stamping them under his feet, like a mad- 
man ; in a few moments after that, we would have him all in tears, then 
sick, swooning, and, had not immediate help been had, b^ would in a few 
moments have been dead ; and thus it was, not with one or two, or ten or 
twenty, but with the greatest part of them : and, if I remember right, 
our surgeon was obliged to let blood of about thirty of them. 

There were two priests among them, one an old man, and the other ft 
young man; and that which was strangest was, the oldest man was this 
worst. As soon as he set his foot on board our ship, and saw himself safQ, 
he dropped down stone dead to all appearance ; not the least sign of life 
could be perceived in him : our surgeon immediately applied proper re- 
medies to recover him, and was the only man in the ship that believed he 
was not dead. At length he opened a vein in his arm, having first chafed 
and rubbed the part, so as to warm it as much as possible : upon this the 
blood, which only dropped at first, flowing freely, in three minutes after 
the man opened his eyes; and a quarter of an hour after that he spoke, 
grew better, and in a little time quite well. After the blood was stopped, 
he walked about; told us he was perfectly well; took a dram of cordial 
which the surgeon gave him, and was what we call come to himself. 
About a quarter of an hour after this, they came running into the cabin 
to the surgeon, who was bleeding a French woman that had fainted, and 
told him the priest was gone stark mad. It seems he had begun to re- 
volve the change of his circumstances in his mind, and again this put him 
into an ecstasy of joy ; his spirits whirled about Caster than the vessels 
could convey them, the blood grew hot and feverish, and the man was as 
fit for Bedlam as any creature that ever was in it : the surgeon would not 
bleed him again in that condition, but gave him something to doze and 
put him to sleep, which, after some time, operated upon him, and he 
awoke next morning perfectly composed and well. 

The younger priest behaved with great command of his passions, an4 
was really an example of a serious, well governed mind : at his first 



OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. |9l 

eotning on board the ship, he threw himself flat on his face, prostrating 
himself in thankfalness for his detiverance, in Tfhich I unhappily and un- 
seasonably disturbed him, really thinking he had been in a swoon; bat 
he spoke ealmly, thanked me, told me he was giving God thanks for his 
deliTerance ; begged me to leave him a few moments^ and that, next to 
his Maker, he would give me thanks also. 

I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not only left him, but 
kept others from interrupting him also. He continued in that posture 
about three minates, or little more, after I left him ; then came to me, as 
he bad said he would, and, with a great deal of seriousness and affection, 
but with tears in his eyes, thanked me, that had, under God, given him 
and so many miserable creatures their lives. I told him I had no room 
to move him to thank God for it, rather , than me, for I had seen that he 
had done that already : but, I added, that it was nothing but what reason 
and humanity dictated to all men, and that we had as much reason as 
he to give thanks to God, who had blessed us so far as to make us the 
instruments of his mercy to so many of liis creatures. 

After this, the young priest applied himself to his country folks; 
laboured to compose them ; persuaded, entreated, argued, reasoned with 
them, and did his utmost to keep them within the exercise of their rea- 
son ; and with some he had success, though others were for a time out 
of all government of themselves. 

I cannot help committing this to writing, as perhaps it may be nsefdl 
to those into whose hands it may fell, for the guiding themselves in all 
the extravagances of their passions ; for, if an excess of joy can carry men 
out to such a length beyond the reach of their reason, what will not the 
extravBgances of anger, rage, and a provoked mind, carry us to? And, 
indeed, here I saw reason for keeping an exceeding watch over our 
passions of every kind, as well tliose of joy and satisfaction, as those of 
sorrow and anger. 

We were somewhat disordered by these extravagances among our new 
guests, for the first day; but when they had been retired, lodgings 
provided for them as well as our ship would allow, and thef had slept 
heartily — as most of them did, being fatigued and frightened — they were 
qnhe another sort of people the next day. 

Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledgments for the kindness 
.shown them, was wanting ; the French, it is known, are naturally apt 
enough to exceed that way. The captain and one of the priests came to 
me the next day, and desired to speak with me and my nephew : the 
commander began to consult with us what should be done with them, and, 
first, they told us we had saved their lives, so all they had was little 
enough for a return to us for that kindness received. The captain said 
they had saved some money and some things of value, in their boats, 
catched hastily out of the flames, and if we would accept it, they were 
ordered to make an offer of it all to os ; they only desired to be set on 
shore somewhere in oar way, where, if possible, they might get a pas- 
sage to France. My nephew was for accepting their money at first word, 
and to consider what to do with them afterwards; but I overruled him 
in that part, for I knew what it was to be set on shore in a strange 
^untry ; and if the Portuguese captain that took me up at sea had served 



Id2 LIFE AND ABV^NttlRES 

me s6, and took all I had for my deliverance, I niust have starved, or have 
been as much a slave at the Brazils as I had been at Barbary, the mere 
being sold to a Mahometan excepted : and perhaps a Portuguese is not 
a much better master than a Turk, if not, in some cases, much worse. 

I therefore told the French captain that we had taken them up in their 
distress, it was true, but that it was our duty to do so, as we were fellow 
creatures ; and we would desire to be so delivered, if we were in the 
like, or any other extremity; that we had done nothing for them but 
what we believed they would have done for us, if we had been in their 
case, and they in ours ; but that we took them up to save them, not to 
plunder them ; and it would be a most barbarous thing to take that little 
from them which they had saved out of the fire, and then set (hem on 
shore and leave them; tliat this would be first to save them from death, 
and then kill them ourselves; save them from drowning, and abandon 
them to starving; and therefore I would not let the least thing be taken 
from them. As to setting them on shore, I told them, indeed, that was 
an exceeding difficulty to us, for that the ship was bound to the East 
Indies; and though we were driven out of our course to the westward a 
very great way, and perhaps were directed by Heaven on purpose for 
tlieir deliverance, yet it was impossible for us wilfully to change our 
voyage on theu* particular account ; nor could my nephew, the captain, 
answer it to the freighters, with whom he was under charter party to 
pursue his voyage by the way of Brazil : and all I knew we could do for 
them was to put ourselves in the way of meeting with other ships home- 
ward bound from the West Indies, and get them a passage, if possible, 
to England or France. 

The first part of the proposal was so generous and kind, they could not 
but be very thankful for it; but they were in a very great consternation, es- 
pecially the passengers, at the notion of being carried away to the East 
Indies : they then entreated me, that seeing I was driven so far to the 
westward before I met with them, I would at least keep on the same 
course to the Banks of Newfoundland, where it was probable I might meet 
with some ship or sloop that they might hire to carry them back to Ca- 
nada, from whence they came. 

I thought this was but a reasonable request on their part, and therefore 
I inclined to agree to it; for, indeed, I considered, that to carry this whole 
company to the East Indies, would not only be an intolerable severity 
upon the poor people, but would be ruining our whole voyage, by de- 
vouring all our provisions; so I thought it no breach of charier party, but 
what an unforeseen accident made absolutely necessary to us, and in 
which no one could say we were to blame ; for the laws of God and na- 
ture would have forbid that we should refuse to take up two boats full of 
people in such a distressed condition ; and the nature of the thing, as well 
respecting ourselves as the poor people, obliged us ^o set them on shore 
somewhere or other for their deliverance : so I consented that we would 
carry tliem to Newfoundland, if wind and weather would permit; and if 
not, that I would carry them to Martinico, in the West Indies. 

The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty good ; and 
as the winds had continued in the points between N. E. and S. E. a long 
time, we missed several opportunities of sending them to France; for we 



OF ROUMSON CRUSOE. * 195 

met several ships boand to Europe, whereof two were French, from St. 
Christopher's; but they had been so long beating up against the wind that 
they durst take in no passengers, for fear of wanting provisions for the 
voyage, as well for themselves as for those they should take in ; so we 
were obliged to go on. It was about a week after this that we made the 
Banks of Newfoundland; where, to shorten my story, we put all our 
French people on board a bark, which they hired at sea there, to put them 
on shore, and afterwards to carry them to France, if they could get pro- 
visions to victual themselves with. When I say all the French went on 
shore, I should remember, that the young priest I spoke of, hearing we 
were bound to the East Indies, desured to go the voyage with us, and to 
be set on shore on the coast of Goromandel ; which I readily agreed to, 
for I wonderfully liked the man, and had very good reason, as will ap^ 
pear afterwards; also four of the seamen entered themselves on our sliip, 
and proved very useful fellows. 

From hence we directed our course for the West Indies, steering away 
S. and S. by E. for about twenty days together, sometimes Uttle or no 
wind at all ; when we met with another subject for our humanity to work 
upon, almost as deplorable as that before. 

It was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes north, on the 19th day of 
March, 1694-5, when we spied a sail, our course S. E. and by S. : we 
soon perceived it was a large vessel, and that she bore up to us, but could 
not at first know what to make of her, till, after coming a little nearer, 
we fbund, she had lost her main-topmast, foremast, and bowsprit; and 
presently she fired a gun, as a signal of distress : the weather was pretty 
good, wind at N. N. W. a fresh gale, and we soon came to speak with 
her. 

We found her a ship of Bristol, bound home from Barbadoes, but had 
been blown out of the road at Barbadoes a few days before she was ready 
to sail, by a terrible hurricane, while the captain and chief mate were 
both gone on shore ; so that, besides the terror of the storm, they were in 
an indifferent case for good artists to bring the ship home. They had 
been already nine weeks at sea, and had met with another terrible storm, 
after the hurricane was over, which had blown them quite out of their 
knowledge to the westward, and in which they lost their masts, as above. 
They told us they expected to have seen the Bahama islands, but were 
then driven away again to the south-east, by a strong gale of wmd at 
N. N. W. the same Uiat blew now : and having no sails to work the ship 
with but a maincourse, and a kind of square sail upon a jury-foremast, 
which they had set up, they could not lie near the wind, but were endea- 
vouring to stand away for the Canaries. 

But that which was worst of all was, tliat they were almost starved for 
want of provisions, besides the fatigues they had undergone : tlieir bread 
and flesh were quite gone; they had not one ounce left in the ship, and had 
none for eleven days. The only relief they had was, their water was not 
all spent, and they had about half a barrel of fioiir left ; they had sugar 
enough ; some succades, or sweelmeats, iliey had at first, but they were 
all devoured ; and they had seven casks of rum. 

There were a youth, and his mother, and a maid-servant on board, who 
were going passengers, and thinking the ship was ready to sail, unhappily 

15 



191 * UFK Aim AI>V£NTnE£S 

cane on board the evening before the hurricane began ; and having no 
lirovisions of their own left, they were in a more deplorable condition thail 
the rest : for the seamen, being reduced to snch an extreme necessity them- 
iehres, had no compassion, we may be sare, for the poor passengers ; and 
they were, indeed, in a condition that their misery is very hard to de- 
scribe. 

I had perhaps not known this part, if my cariosity hdd not led me ((he 
Ireather being hir and the wfnd abated) to go on board the ship. The 
second mate, who, tifion this occasion, commanded the ship, had been on 
board our ship, and he told roe, indeed, they had three passengers in the 
great cabin, that were in a deplorable condition : " Nay,** says he, ** I 
believe they are dead, for I have heard nothing of them for above two 
days; and I was afraid to inquire after them^" said he, '' for I had nothing 
to relieve them with.*' 

We immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief we could 
spare ; and, indeed, I had so far overruled things with my nephew, that 
I would hate victualed them, though we had gone away to Yirgibia, or 
any other part of the coast of America, to have supplied ourselves ; but 
there was no necessity for that. 

But now they were in a new danger; fol* they were afraid of eating too 
much, even of that Ifttle we gave them. The mate or commander brought 
six men with him in his boat; but these poor wretches looked like skele- 
tons, and were so weak that they could hardly sit to their oars. The 
mate himself was very ill, and half starved; for he declared he had re- 
served nothing from the men, and went share and share alike with them 
in every bit they ate. 

I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat before him immediately; 
and he had not eaten three mouthfuls before he began to be sick, and out of 
order; so he stopped awhile, and our surgeon mixed him up something 
with some broth, which he said would be to him both food and physic ; 
and after he had tdken it he grew better. In the mean tune I forgot not 
the men; I ordered victuals to be given them; and the poor creatures ra- 
ther devoured than ate it : they were so exceeding hungry that they were 
in a kind ravenous, and had no command of themselves; and two of them 
ate with so much greediness that they were in danger of their lives the 
next morning. 

The sight of these people's distress was very moving to me, and brought 
to mind what Ihad a terrible prospectof atmy first coming on shore in my 
island, where I had never the least mouthful of food, or any prospect of 
procuring any ; besides the hourly apprehensions I had of bemg made the 
food of other creatures. But all the while the mate was thus relating to 
me the miserable condition of the ship's company, I could not put out of 
my thought the story he had told me of the three poor creatures in the 
great cabin, viz. the mother, her son, and the maid servant, whom he 
bad heard nothing of for two or three days, and whom, he seemed to 
confess, they had wholly neglected, their own extremities being so great : 
by which I understood, that they had really given them no food at all, 
and that therefore they mu>t be perished, and be all lying dead, perhaps, 
on the iloor or deck of the cabin. 

As I therefore kept the mate, whoih tre then called captain, on board 



OP ROBINSON GKUltoE. 195 

with his men, to refresh them, so I also forgot not the starving crew that 
irere left on board, but ordered my own boat to go on board the sbip, and, 
THth my mate and twelve men, to carry them a sack of bread, and four or 
five pieces of beef to boil. Our surgeon charged the men to cause the meat 
to be boiled while they stayed, and to keep guard in the cook-room, to 
prevent the men takingit to eat raw, or taking it out of the pot before it was 
well boiled, and then to give every man but a very little at a time : and by 
this caution he preserved the men, who would otherwise have killed them- 
selves with that very food that w as given them on purpose to save their lives. 
At the same time, I ordered the mate to go into the great cabin, and 
see what condition the poor passengers were in ; and if they were alive, 
to comfort them, and give them what refreshment was proper : and the 
surgeon gave him a large pitcher, with some of the prepared broth which 
he had given the mate that was on board, and which he did not question 
would restore them gradually. 

I was not satisfied with this; but, as I said above, having a great mind 
to see the scene of misery which I knew the ship itself would present 
me with, in a more lively manner than I could have it by report, I took 
the captain of the ship, as we now called him, with me, and went 
myself, a Utile after, in their boat. 

I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult, to get the victuals 
out of the boiler before it was ready ; but my mate observed his orders, 
and kept a good guard at the cook-room door; and the man he placed 
there, after using all possible fiersuasion to have patience, kept them off 
by force *. however, he caused some biscuit cakes to be dipped in the pot, 
and softened with the liquor of the meat, which they called brewis, and 
gave them every one some, to stay their stomachs, and toid them it was 
for their own safety that he was obliged to give them but little at a time. 
But it was all in vain; and had I not come on board, and their own com- 
mander and officers with me, and with good words, and some threats 
also of giving them no more, I believe they would have broken into the 
cook-room by force, and torn the meat out of the furnace; for words 
are indeed of very small force to a hungry belly : however, we pacified 
them, and fed them gradually and cautiohsly for the first, and the next 
time gave them more, and at last filled tlieir bellies, and the men did 
well enough. 

But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of another na- 
ture, and far beyond the rest; for as, first, the ship's company had so 
little for themselves, it was but too true that they had at first kept them 
very low, and at last totally neglected them ; so that for six or seven days 
it might be said they had really no food at all, and for several days before 
very little. The poor mother, who, as the men reported, was a woman 
of sense and good breeding, had spared all she could so affectionately for 
her son that at last she entu'ely sunk under it ; and when the mate of our 
ship went in, she sat upon the floor or deck, with her back up against the 
sides, between two chairs, which were lashed fast, and her head sunk 
between her shoulders, like a corpse, though not quite dead. My male 
said all he could to revive and encourage her, and with a spoon put some 
broth into her mouth. She opened her lips, and lifted up one hand, but 
tonld not speak : yet she nnderstood what be said, and made signs to him, 



m UFE AND ADVENTURES 

intimating that it was too late for her, but pointed to her child, as if she 
would have said they should take care of him. However, the mate, who 
was exceedingly moved with tlie sight, endeavoured to get some of the 
broth into her mouth, and, as he said, got two or three spoonfuls down; 
though I question whether he could be sure of it or not: but it was too 
late, and she died the same night. 

The youth, who was preserved at the price of bis most affectionate 
mother's life, was not so far gone; yet lie lay in a cabin bed, as one 
stretched out, with hardly any life left in him. He had a piece of an old 
glove in his mouth, having eaten up the rest of it : however, being young, 
and having more Strength than his mother, the male got something down 
his throat, and he began sensibly to revive : though by giving him, some 
time after, but two or three spoonfuls extraordinary, he was very sick, 
and brought it up again. 

But the next care was the poor maid : she lay all along upon the deck, 
hard by her mistress, and just like one that had fallen down with an 
apoplexy, and struggled for life. Her limbs were distorted ; one of her 
hands was clasped round the frame of a chair, and she griped it so hard 
that we could not easily make her let it go; her other arm lay over her 
bead, and her feet lay both together, set fast against the frame of the 
cabin table : in short, she lay just like one in the agonies of death, and 
yet she was alive too. 

The poor creature was not only starved with hunger, and terrified with 
the thoughts of death, but, as the men told us afterwards, was broken 
hearted for her mistress, whom she saw dying for two or three days be- 
fore, and whom she loved most tenderly. 

We knew not what to do' with this poor girl : for when our surgeon, who 
was a man of very great knowledge and experience, had, with great ap- 
plication, recovered her as to life, he had her upon his hands as to her 
senses ; for she was little less than distracted for a considerable lime after, 
as shall appear presently. 

Whoever shall read these memorandums must be desired to consider, 
that visits at sea are not like a journey into the country, where sometimes 
people stay a week or a fortnight at a place : our business was to relieve 
this distressed ship's crew, but not lie by for them; and Uiough they 
were wilting to steer the same course with us for some days, yet we could 
carry no sail, to keep pace with a ship that had no masts : however, as 
their captain begged of us to help him to set up a main-topmast, and a 
kmd of a topmast to his jury foremast, we did, as it were, he by him for 
three (or four days ; and then having giyen him five barrels of beef, a 
barrel of pork, two hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion of peas, flour, 
and what other things we could spare; and taking three casks of sugar, 
some rum, and some pieces of eight from them for satisfaction, we left 
them; taking on board with us, at their own earnest request, the youth 
and the maid, and all their goods. 

The young lad was about seventeen years of age ; a pretty, well bred, 
modest, and sensible youth, greatiy dejected with the loss of his mother, 
and, as it seems, had lost his father but a few months before, at Barba- 
does: he begged of the surgeon to speak to me to take him out of the ship; 
lor he said the cruel fellows had murdered his mother : and, indeed, so 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ^97 

they had, that is to say, passively ; for they might have spared a small 
sustenance to the poor helpless widow, that might have preserved 
her life, though it had been but just enough to keep her alive : but 
hunger knows no friend, no relation, no justice, no right; and there- 
fore is remorseless and capable of no compassion. 

The surgeoh*^toId him how far we were going, and that it would carry 
him away from all his friends, and put him perhaps in as bad circum- 
stances almost as those we found him in, that is to say, starving in the 
world. He said it mattered not whither he went, if he was but delivered 
from the terrible crew that he was among, that the captain (by which lie 
meant me, for he could know nothing of my nephew) had saved his life, 
and he was sure w^ould not hurl him ; and as for the maid, he was sure, 
if she came to herself, she would be very thankful for it, let us carry theui 
where we would. The surgeon represented the case so affectionately lo 
me that I yielded, and we took them both on board, with all their goodt», 
except eleven hogsheads of sugar, which could not be removed or come 
at; and as the youth had a bill of lading for them, I made his commander 
sign a writing obliging himself to go, as soon as he came to Bristol, to 
one Mr. Rogers, a merchant there, to whom the youth said he was relat- 
ed, and to deliver a letter which I wrote to him, and all the goods he bad 
belonging to the deceased widow ; which I suppose was not done, for I 
could never learn that the ship came to Bristol, but was, as is most pro- 
bable, lost at sea ; being in so disabled a condition, and so far from any 
land, that I am of opinion the first storm she met with afterwards she 
might founder in the sea; for she was leaky, and had damage in her bold, 
when we met with her. 

I was now in the latitude of 19 degrees 52 minutes, and had hitherto a 
tolerable voyage as to weather, though, at first, the winds had been con- 
trary. I shall trouble nobody with the little incidents of wind, weather, 
currents, etc. on the rest of our voyage ; but, to shorten my story, for the 
sake of what is to follow, shall observe, that I came to my old habitation, 
the island, on the 40lh of April, 4695. It was with no Small difficulty 
Uiat I found the place ; for as I came to it, and went from it, before, on 
the south and east side of the island, as coming from the Brazils, so now, 
coming in between the main and the island, and having no chart for the 
coast nor any landmark, I did not know it when I saw it, or know whe- 
ther I saw it or not. 

We beat about a great while, and went on shore on several islands in 
the mouth of the great river Oronooque, but none for my purpose; only 
this I learned by my coasting the shore, that 1 was imder one great mis- 
take before, viz. that the continent which I thought I saw from the island 
I lived iUi was really no continent, but a long island, or rather a ridge of 
islands, reaching from one to the other side of the extended mouth of that 
great river; and that the savages who came to my island were not pro- 
perly those which we call Garibbees, but islanders, and other barbarians 
of the same kind, who inhabited something nearer to our side than the 
rest. 

In short, I visited several of these islands to no purpose ; some I fouud 
were inhabited, and some were not : on one of them I found some Spa- 
niards, and thought they had lived there; but, speaking with them, foui)d 



I9S LIFE Ain> ABTEOTURP 

they had a sloop lay in a small creek hard by, and came thither to makf) 
salt and to catch some pearl muscles, if they could ; but that they belong- 
ed fo the Isle de Trinidad, which lay farther north, in the latitude of 
40 and 44 degrees. 

Thus coasting from one island to another, sometimes with the ship, 
sometimes with the Frenchmen's shallop, which we had found a conve- 
nient boat, and therefore kept her with their very good will, at length I 
came fair on the south side of my island, and presently knew the very 
countenance of the place : so I brought the ship safe to an anchor, broad- 
side with the little creek where my old habitation was. 

As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday, and asked him if he 
knew where he was? he looked about a little, and presently clapping his 
hands, cried, "O yes, O there, O yes, O there !" pointing to our old ha- 
bitation, and fell dancing and capering like a mad fellow ; and I had much 
ado to keep him from jumping into the sea, to swim ashore to the place. 

" Well, Friday," says I, "do you think we shall find anybody here or 
Ho ? and do you think we shall see your father ?" The fellow stood mute 
as a stock a good while, but when I named his father, the poor affection- 
ate creature looked dejected, and I could see the tears run down his face 
very plentifully. " What is the matter, Friday ? " says I ; " are you trou- 
bled because you may see your father ?"—" No, no," says he, shaking 
his head, " no see him more : no, never more see liim again." " Why 
80, "said I, "Friday? how do you know that?"— "O no, O no," says 
Friday ; " he long ago die, long ago j he much old man." " Well, well," 
says I, " Friday, you don't know ; but shall we see any one else then ?" 
The fellow, it seems had better eyes than I, and he points to the hill just 
above my old house ; and, though we lay half a league off, he cries out, 
" We see, we see, yes, yes, we see much man there, and there, and 
there." I looked, but I saw nobody, no, not with a perspective-glass, 
which was, I suppose, because I could not hit the place; for the fellow 
was right, as I found upon inquiry the next day ; and there were five or 
six men all together, who stood to look at the ship, not knowing what to 
think of us. 

As soon as Friday told me be saw people, I caused the English ancient 
to bespread, and fired three guns, to give them notice we were friends; 
and in about half a quarter of an hour after, we perceived a smoke arise 
from the side of the creek; so I immediately ordered the boat out, takuig 
Friday with me; and hanging out a white flag, or a flag of truce, I went 
directly on shore, taking with me the young friar I mentioned, to whom 
I had told the story of my living there, and the manner of it, and every 
particular both of myself and those I left there; and who was, on that 
account, extremely desirous to go with me. We had besides about sixteen 
men well armed, if we had found any new guests there which we didnol 
know of; but we bad no need of weapons. 

As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high water, we rowed 
directly into the creek ; and the first man I fixed my eye upon was the 
Spaniard whose life I had saved, and whom I knew by his hce perfectly 
well : as to his habit, I shall describe it afterwards. I ordered nobody to 
go on shore at first but myself; but there was no keeping Friday in the 
boat; for the affectionate creatnre had spied his father at a diataneaia 



OF ROBmSON CRUSOE. 199 

good way off the Spaniards, where indeed I saw nothing of him ; and if 
^ley had not let him go ashore, he woald have jumped into the sea. H« 
was no sooner on shore, but he flew away to his father, ]jke an arrow out 
of a bow. It would have made any man shed tears, in spite of the 
firmest resolution, to have seen the first transports of this poor fellow's 
joy when he came to his father: how he emtvaced him, kissed him, 
stroked his fece, took him up in his arms, set him down upon a tree, and 
lay down by him ; then stood and looked at him, as any one would look at 
a strange picture, for a quarter of an hour together; then lay down on 
the ground, and stroked his legs, and kissed them, and then got up again, 
and stared at him ; one would have thought the fellow bewitched. Bat 
it would have made a dog laugh the next day to see how his passion ran 
out another way ; in the morning. he walked along the shore, to and again, 
with his father several hours, always leading him by the band, as if he 
had been a lady; and every now and then he would come to the boat to 
fetch, something or other for him, either a lump of sugar, a dram, a bis- 
cuit cake, or something or other that was good. In the afternoon his 
frolics ran another way; for then he would set the old man down upon 
the ground and dance about him, and make a thousand antic postures 
and gestures, and all the while he did this he would be talking to him, and 
telling him one story or other of his travels, and of what had happened to him 
fibroad, to divert him. In short, if the same filial affection was to be found 
In Christians to their parents in our part of the world, one would be tempted 
to say, there would hardly have been any need of the fifth commandment. 

Put this is a digression : I return to my landing. It would he needless 
to take notice of all the ceremonies and civilities that the Spaniards re- 
ceived me with. The first Spaniard, who, as I said, I knew very well, 
was he whose life I had saved ; he came towards the boat, attended by 
one more, carrying a flag of truce also; and lie not only did not know 
9ie at first, but he had no thoughts, no notion of its being me that was 
come, till I spoke to him, '^ Seignior," said I, in Portuguese, ^' do you 
not know me?" At which he spoke not a word, but giving his musket to 
the man that was with him, threw his arms abroad, saying something in 
Spani^ that I did not perfectly hear, came forward and embraced me; 
telling me he was inexcusable not to know that face again, that he had 
9nce seen as if an angel from heaven sent to save his life : he said abun. 
dance of very hansdome things, as a well-bred Spaniard always knows 
how ; and then beckoning to the person Uiat attended hun, bade him go 
and call out his comrades. He then asked me if I would walk to my old 
habitation, where he would give me possession of my own house again, 
and where I should see they had made but mean improvements ; so I 
walked along with him ; but, alas! I could no more find the place again 
than if I had never been there; for they had planted so many trees, and 
placed them in such a posture, so thick and close to one another, and in 
ten years' time they were grown so big, that, In short, the place was inac- 
cessible, except by such windings and blind ways as they themselves only, 
who made them, could find. 

I asked them what put them upon all these fortifications : he told me I 
would say there was need enough of it, when they had given me an 
aooQont hpw thjey had passed their time since their arriving in the isi^d, 



200 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

especially after they had the misfortane to find that I was gone. He told 
me he could not but have some satisfaction in my good fortune, when he 
heard that I was gone in a good ship, and to my satisfaction ; and that 
he had oftentimes a strong persuasion that, one time or other, he should 
see nie again; but nothing that ever befell him in his life, he said, was so 
surprising and afflicting to him at first, as the disappointment he was 
under when he came back to the island and found I was not there. 

As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that were left behind, 
and of whom, he said, he had a long story to tell me, the Spaniards all 
thought themselves much better among the savages, only that their 
number was so small t ^^and," says he, ^^had they been strong enough, 
we had been all long ago in purgatory;" and with that he crossed him- 
self on the breast. ^^ But, Sir," says he, ^' I hope you will not be displeased 
when I shall tell yon how, forced by necessity, we were obliged, for our 
own preservation, to disarm them, and make them our subjects, who 
would not be content with being moderately our masters, bnt would be 
our murderers." I answered, I was heartily afraid of it when I left 
them there, and nothing troubled me at my parting from the island but 
that ihey were not come back, that I might have put them in possession 
of every thing first, and left the others in a state of subjection, as they 
deserved ; but if they had reduced them to it, I was very glad, and should 
be very far from finding any fault with it : for I knew they were a parcel 
of refractory, ungoverned villains, and were fit for any manner of 
mischief. 

Wliile I was thus saying this, the man came whom he had sent back, 
and with him eleven men more. In the dress they were in, it was im- 
possible to guess what nation they were of; but he made all clear, both to 
them and to me. First he turned to me, and pointing to them, said, 
" These, Sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe their lives to you ;" 
and then turning to them, and pointing to me, he let them know who I 
was ; upon which they all came up, one by one, not as if they had been 
sailors, and ordinary fellows, and the like, but really as if they bad been 
ambassadors of noblemen, and I a monarch or great conqueror : their 
behaviour was to the last degree obliging and courteous, and yet mixed 
with a manly, majestic gravity, which very well became them; and, in 
short, they had so much more manners than I that I scarce knew how to 
receive their civilities, much less how to return them in kind. 

The history of their coming to, and conduct in the island, after my 
going away, is so very remarkable, and has so many incidents, which 
the former part of my relation will help to understand, and which will 
m most of the particulars, refer to the account I have already given, that I 
cannot bnt commit them, with great delight, to the reading of those 
that come after me. 

I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in the first person, 
which will put me to the expense of ten tltousand said Ts, and said he's, 
and he told me's, and / iold him's, and the like ; but I shall collect the 
facts historically, as near as I can gather them out of my memory, from 
what they related to me, and firom what I met with in ray conversing 
with them and with the place. 

In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as I can, I ma$t go 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 301 

back to tbe circainstances in which I left the island, and in which the 
persons were of whom I am to speak. And first, it is necessary to repeat, 
that I liad sent away Friday's father and the Spaniard (the two wliose 
lives I had rescued from the savages) in a large canoe, to the main, as I 
then thought it, to fetch over the Spaniard's companions that he left 
behind him, in ordjsr to save them from the like calamity that he had been 
h), and in order to succour them for the present ; and that, if possible, we 
might together find some way for our deliverance afterwards. 

When I sent them away, I had no visible appearance of, or the least 
room to hope for my own deliverance, any more than I had twenty years 
before, much less had I any foreknowledge of what afterwards happened, 
I mean, of an English ship coming on shore there to fetch me off; and it 
could not but be a very great surprise to them, when they came back, 
not only to find that I was gone, but to find three strangers left on the 
spot, possessed of all that I had left behbid me, which would otherwise 
have been their own* 

The first thing, however, which I inquired into, that I might begin 
where I left off, was of their own part; and I desired he would give me a 
particular account of his voyage back to his countrymen with the boat, 
when I sent him to fetch them over. He told me there was little variety 
in that part, for nothing remarkable happened to them on the way, hav- 
ing had very calm weather, and a smooth sea. As for his countrymen, 
it could not be doubted, he said, but that they were overjoyed to see him 
(it seems he was the principal man among them, the captain of the vessel 
they had been shipwrecked in having been dead some time); they were, 
he said, the more surprised (o see him, because they knew that he was fallen 
into the hands of the savages, who, they were satisfied, would devour him, 
as they did all the rest of tlieir prisoners; that when he told them the story 
of his deliverance, and in what manner he was furnished for carrying them 
away, it was like a dream to Ihem, and their astonishment, he said, was 
somewhat like that of Joseph's brethren, when he told them who he was, 
and told them the story of his exaltation in Pharaoh's court ; but when he 
showed them the arms, the powder, the ball, and provisions, that he 
brought them for their journey or voyage, they were restored to them- 
selves, took a just share of the joy of their deliverance, and immediately 
prepared to come away with him. 

Their first business was to get canoes : and in this they were obliged not 
to stick so much upon the honest part of it, but to trespass upon their 
friendly savages, and to borrow two large canoes, or periaguas, on pre- 
tence of going out a fishing, or for pleasure. In these they came away 
the next morning. It seems they wanted no time to get themselves ready ; 
for they had no baggage, neither clothes nor provisions, nor any thing in 
the world but what they had on them, and a few roots to eat, of which 
they used to make their bread. 

They were inall three weeksabsent ; and in that time unluckily for them, 
I had the occasion offered for my escape, as I mentioned in my other part, 
and to get off from the inland, leaving three of the most impudent, har- 
dened, ungoverned, disagreeable villains behind me, that any man could 
desire to meet with ; to the poor Spaniards' great grief find disappoint- 
ment, you may be sure. 



tot LIFl AI<a> ADVINTURES 

The only jast thing the rogues did was, that when the Spaniards came 
ashore, they gave my letter to them, and gave them provisions, and other 
relief, as I ordered them to do; also they gave them the long paper of di* 
rections which I had left with them, containing the particular methods 
which I took for managing every part of my life there; the way how I 
baked my bread, bred up tame goats, and planted my corn; how I cured 
my grapes, made my pots, and, in a word, every thing I did ; all this being 
written down, they gave to the Spaniards (two of them understood Eng- 
lish well enough) : nor did they refuse to accommodate the Spaniards with 
any thing else, for they agreed very well for some time. They gave them 
an equal admission into the house, or cave, and they began to live very 
sociably; and the head Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my me- 
thods, and Friday's father together, managed all their affairs : but as for 
the Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble about the island, shoot par- 
rots, and catch tortoises; and when they came home at night, the Spani- 
ards provided their suppers for them. 

Tlie Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, had the others but 
let them alone; which, however, they could not find in their hearts to do 
long, but, like the dog in the manger, they would not eat themselves, 
neither would they let the others eat. The differences, nevertheless, 
were at first but trivial, and such as are not worth relating, but at last it 
broke out into open war : and it began with all the rudeness and insolence 
Uiat can be imagined, without reason, without provocation, contrary to 
nature, and, indeed to common sense : and though, it is true, the first re- 
lation of it came from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call the ac- 
cusers, yet when I came to examine the fellows, they could not deny a 
word of it. 

But before I come to the particulars of this part, T must supply a defect 
in my former relation ; and this was, I forgot to set down, among the 
rest, that just as we were weighing the anchor to set sail, there happened 
a little quarrel on board of our ship, which I was once afraid would have 
turned to a second [mutiny; nor was it appeased till the captain, rousing* 
up his courage, and taking us all to his assistance, parted them by force, 
and making two of the most refiractory fellows prisoners, he laid them in 
irons : and as they had been active in the former disorders, and let fall 
some ugly, dangerous words, the second time he thi'catened to carry them 
in irons to England, and have them hanged there for mutiny, and running 
away with the ship. This, it seems, though the captahi did not intend 
to do it, frightened some other men in the ship ; and some of them had put 
it into the heads of the rest that the captain only gave them good words 
for the present, till they should come to some English port, and that then 
they should be all put into gaol, and tried Ibr their lives. The mate got 
intelligence of this, and acquainted us with it; upon which it was desired 
that I, who still passed for a great man among them, should go down 
with the mate, and satisfy the men, and tell them that they might be as- 
sured, if they behaved well the rest of the voyage, all they had done for 
the time past should be pardoned. So I went, and after passing my ho- 
nonr's word to them, they appeared easy, and the more so when I caused 
the two men that were in irons to be released and forgiven. 

Bat this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that ni^ht; the wind 



€9 EOBINSON CRUSOE. IW 

alsa falling calm next morning, we found that oar two men who had been 
laid in irons had stole each of them a musket, and some other weapons 
(what powder or shot they had we knew not), and had taken the ship^'s 
pinnace, wliich was not yet haled up, and run away with her to their 
companions in roguery on shore. As soon as we found this, I ordered the 
long-boat on shore, with twelve men and the mate, and away they went to 
seek the rogues; but they could neither find them or any of the rest, for 
they all fled into the woods when they saw the boat coming on shore. 
The mate was once resolved, in justice to their roguery, to have destroyed 
their plantations, burned all their household stuff and furniture, and left 
them to shift without it; but having no orders, he let it all alone, left 
every thing as he found it, and bringing the pinnace away, came on board 
without them. These two men made their number five ; but the other 
three villains were so much more wicked than they, that after they had 
been two or three days together, they turned the two new-comers out of 
doors to shift for themselves, and would have nothing to do with them ; 
nor could they, for a good while, be persuaded to give Ihem any food : as 
for the Spaniards^ they were not yet come. 

When the Spaniards came first on shore, the business began to go 
forward : the Spaniards would have persuaded the three English brutes to 
have taken in their countrymen again, [that, as they said, they might be all 
one family; but they would not hear of it : so the two poor fellows lived 
by themselves; and finding nothing but industry and application would 
make them live comfortably, they pitched their tents on the north shore 
of the island, but a little more to the west, to be out of danger of the sa- 
vages, who always landed on the east parts of the island. 

Here they built them two huts, one to lodge in, and the other to lay 
up their magazines and stores in ; and the Spaniards having given thein 
some corn for seed, and especially some of the peas which I had left them, 
they dug, planted, and enclosed, after the pattern I had set for them all, 
and began to live pretty well. Theur first crop of corn was on the ground , 
and though it was but a little bit of land which they had dug up at firsts 
having had but a little time, yet it was enough to relieve them, and find 
them with bread and other eatables ; and one of the fellows being the 
cook's-mate of the ship, was very teady at making soup, puddings, and 
such other preparations as the rice and the milk, and such litUe flesh ^s 
they got, furnished him to do. 

They were going on in this little thriving posture, when the three un- 
natural rogues, their own countrymen too, in mere humour, and to in- 
sult them, came and bullied them, and told them the island was theirs j 
that the governor, meaning me, had given them the possession of it, and 
nobody else had any right to it ; and that they should built no houses upon 
their ground, unless they would pay rent for them. 

The two men, thinking they were jesting at first, asked them to come 
in and sit down, and see what fine houses they were that they had built, 
and to tell them what rent they demanded ; and one of them merrily said, 
if they were the ground landlords, he hoped, if they built tenements upon 
their land, and made improvements, they would, according to the custom 
of landlords, grant a long lease : and desired tliey would get a scrivener 
to draw the writii^s. One of the three, cursing and raging, told tbem 



« 



204 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

they shoQld see tbey were not in jest ; and going to a little fklace at a dis- 
tance, where the honest men had made a fire to dress their victuals, he 
takes a firebrand, and claps it to the outside of their hut, and very fairly 
set it on fire ; and it would have been all burned down in a few minutes, 
if one of the two had not run to the fellow, thrust him away, and trod 
the fire out with his feet, and that not without some difficulty too. 

The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's thrusting him away, 
that he returned npon him, with a pole he bad in his hand, and had not 
the man avoided the blow very nimbly, and run into the hot, he had ended 
his days at (mce. His comrade, seeing the danger they were both in, ran 
in after him, and inunediately they came both out with their muskets, 
and the man that was first struck at with the pole, knocked the fellow 
down that had begnn the quarrel with the stock of his musket, and that 
before the other two conld come to help him; and then seeing the rest 
come at them, they stood together, and presenting the other ends of their 
pieces to them, bade them stand off. 

The others had fire-arms with them too ; but one of the two honest men, 
bolder than his comrade, and made desperate by his danger, told them, if 
they offered to move hand or foot they were dead men, and boldly com- 
manded them to lay down their arms. They did not, indeed, lay down 
their arms, but seeing him so resolute, it brought them to a parley, and 
they consented to take their wounded man witii them and be gone ; and, 
indeed, it seems the fellow was wounded sufficiently with the blow. 
However, they were much in the wrong, since they had the advantage, 
that they did not disarm them effectually, as they might have done, and 
have gone inunediately to the Spaniards, and given them an account how 
the rogues had treated them ; for the three villains studied nothing but 
revenge, and every day gave them some intimation that they did so. 

But not U) crowd this pairt with an account of the lesser part of the ro- 
gueries, such as treading down their corn; shooting three young kids and 
a she-goat, which the poor men bad got to breed up tame for their store ; 
and, in a word, plaguing them night and day in this manner; it forced the 
two men to such a desperation, that they resolved to fight them all 
three, the first time they had a fair opportunity. In order to this, they 
resolved to go to the castle, as they called it (that was my old dwelling), 
where the three rogues and the Spaniards all lived together at that time, 
intending to have a fair battle, and the Spaniards should stand by, to see 
fair play : so they got up in the morning before day, and came to the place, 
and called the Englishmen by their names, telling a Spaniard that an- 
swered that they wanted to speak with them. 

It happened that the day before, two of the Spaniards, having been in 
the woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom, for distinction, I 
called the honest men, and he had made a sad complaint to the Spaniards 
of the barbarous usage they had met with from their three countrymen, 
and how they had ruined their plantation, and destroyed their corn that 
they had laboured so hard to bring forward, and killed the milch-goat and 
their three kids, which was ail they had provided for their sustenance; and 
that if he and his friends, meaning the Spaniards, did not assist them 
again, they shonld be starved. When the Spaniards came home at night, 
ftfld they were all at supper, one of them took the freedom to reprove the 



ff 
tf 



OF ROftlNSOM CEUSOE. 205 

Uiree EngHshmen, though ia very gentle and mannerly terinsy and asked 
them how they could be so cruel, they being harmless, inofTensive fel- 
lows ; that they were putting themselves in a way to subsist by their la- 
hour, and that it had cost them a great deal of pains to bring things to 
such perfection as they were then in. 

One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, " What had they to do 
there? that they came on shore without leave; and that they should not 
plant or build upon the island ; it was none of their ground." — '*Why, 
says the Spaniard, very calmly, ** Seignior Inglese, they must not starve. 
The Englishman replied, like a rough-hewn tarpauling, "They might 
starve and be d~-d ; they should not plant nor build in that place."—- 
'^But what must they do then, Seignior?" said the Spaniard. Another 

of the brutes returned, "Do ? d n them, they should be servants, and 

work for them."— "But how can you expect that of them.^" says the 
Spaniard, " they are not bought with your money : you have no right to 
make them servants." The Englishman answered, "The island was 
theirs; the governor had given it to them, and no man had any thing to 
do there but themselves;" and with that swore by his Maker that they 
would go and bum all their new huts ; they should build none upon their 
land. "Why, Seignior," says the Spaniard, " by the same rule, we must 
be your servants too." — " Ay," says the bold dog, "and so you shall too, 
before we have done with you;" mixing two or three G — d d — n me's in 
the proper intervals of his speech. The Spaniard only smiled at that, and 
made him no answer. However, this little discourse had heated them; 
and, starting up, one says to the other, I think it was he they called Will 
Atkins, " Come, Jack, let's go, and have t'other brush with 'em; we'll de- 
molish their caslle, I'll warrant you ; they shall plant no colony in our do- 



mimons." 



Upon this they went all trooping away, with every man a gun, a pistol, 
and a sword, and muttered some insolent things among themselves, of 
what they would do to the Spaniards too, when opportunity offered; but 
the Spaniards, it seems, did not so perfectly understand them as to linow 
all the particulars, only that, in general, they threatened them hard for 
taking the two Englishmen's part. 

Whitlier they went, or how they bestowed their time tliat evening, 
tlie Spaniards said they did not know ; but it seems they wandered about 
the country part of the night, and then lying down in the place which I 
used to call my bower, they were weary, and overslept themselves. The 
case was this; they had resolved to stay till midnight, and so to take the 
two poor men when they were asleep, and, as they acknowledged after- 
wards, intended to set fire to their huts while they were in them, and 
either bum them there, or murder them as they came out. As malice 
seldom sleeps very sound, it was very strange they should not have been 
kept awake. 

However, as the two men had also a design upon them, as I have said, 
though a much fairer one than that of burning and murdering, it hap- 
pened, and very luckily for them all, that they were up, and gone abroad, 
before the bloody-minded rogues came to their huts. 

When they came there, and found the men gone, Atkins, who, it 
seems, was tbe forwardest m^n, called out to his comrade, " Ha, Jack, 



M tm aud adtertobss 

ber^s the nest, Inity d— n them, the birds are flown/* They mused 
awhile, to think what should be the occasioii of their being gone abroad 
80 soon, and suggested presently that the Spaniards had given them no- 
tice of it; and with that Uiey shook hands, aiid swore to one another that 
they woold be revenged of the ^^aniards. As soon as they liad made this 
bloody bargain, they fell to woi^ with the poor men's habitatioD; they 
did not set fire, indeed, to any thing, bat they palled down both thehr 
booses, and palled them so limb from limb that they left not the least 
stick standing, or scarce any sign on the ground where they stood ; they 
tore all their little collected hoasehold sta£f in pieces, and threw every 
thing about in such a manner that the poor men afterwards found some 
of their things a mile off their habitation. When they had done this, 
they pulled up all the yonqg trees which the poor men had planted ; 
pulled up an enclosure they had made to secure their cattle and their 
corn 'y and, in a word, sacked and plundered every thing as completely as 
a horde of Tartars would have done. 

The two men were, at this juncture, gone to find them ont, and had 
resolved to fight them wherever they had been , though they were but 
two f three ; so that, had they met, there certainly would have been 
bloodshed among them ; for they were all very stout, resolute fellows, to 
give them their due. 

But Providence took more care to keep them asunder than they them- 
selves could do to meet ; for, as if they had dogged one another, when 
the three were gone thither, the two were here; and afterwards, when 
the two went back to find ihem, the three were come to tlie old habita- 
tion again : we shall see their different conduct presently. Wlien the 
three came back like furious creatures, flashed with the rage which the 
work they had been about had pat them into, they came up to (he Spa- 
niards, and told them what they had done, by way of scoff and bravado; 
and one of them stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as if they had been 
a couple of boys at play, takes hold of his hat as it was upon his head, and 
giving it a twirl about, fleering in his face, says to him, ^' And you Seig- 
nior Jack Spaniard, shall have the same sauce if you do not mend your 
manners." The Spaniard, who, though a quiet, civil man, was as brave 
a' man as could be, and withal a strong, well-made man, looked at him 
for a good while, and then, having no weapon in his hand, stepped gravely 
up to him, and with one blow of his fist knocked him down, as an 
ox is felled with a pole-axe ; at which one of the rogues, as insolent as 
the first, fired his pistol at the Spaniard immediately : he missed his body, 
indeed, for the bullets went through his hair, but one of them touched 
the tip of his ear, and he bled pretty much. The blood made the Spa- 
niard believe he was more hurt than he really was, and that pot him into 
some heat, for before he acted all in a perfect calm ; but now resolving 
to go through with his work, he stooped, and took the fellow's musket 
whom he had knocked down, and was just going to shoot the man who 
had fired at him, when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the cave, 
came out, and calling to them not to shoot, they stepped in, secured the 
other two, and took their arms from them. 

When they were thus disarmed, and found they had made all the Spa- 
niards tbeur enemies, as well as their own Coontrymeoi tbey begaa to 



OF EOBINSON GRtSOK. M 

cooly and, giving the Spaniards better words, would have their arms again ; 
bat the Spaniards, considering the feud that was between them and the 
other two Englishmen, and that it would be the best method they could 
take to keep them from killing one another, told them they would do 
them no harm, and if they would live peaceably, they would be very 
willing to assist and associate with them as they did before ; but that they 
could not think of giving them their arms again, while they appeared so 
resolved to do mischief with them to their own countrymen, and had 
even threatened them all to make them their servants. 

The rogues were now no more capable to hear reason than to act with 
reason; but being refused their arms, they went raving away, and raging 
like madmen, threatening what they would do, though they had no fire* 
arms. But ihe Spaniards, despising their threatening, told them they 
should take care how they offered any injury to their plantation or cattle, 
for if they did, they would shoot them as they would ravenous beasts, 
wherever they found them ; and if they fell into their hands alive, they 
should certainly be hanged. However, this was far from cooling them, 
but away they went, raging and swearing like furies of hell. As soon 
as they were gone the two men came back in passion and rage enou^ 
also, though of another kind; for having been at their plantation, 
and finding it all demolished and destroyed, as above, it will easily be 
supposed they had provocation enough. They could scarce have room 
to tell their tale, the Spaniards were so eager to teil them tlieirs; and 
it was strange enough to find that three men should thus bully nine- 
teen, and receive no punishment at all. 

The Spaniards, indeed, despised them, and especially, having thus dis- 
armed them, made light of their threatenings ; but the two Englishmen 
resolved to have their remedy against them, what pains soever it cost to 
find them out. But the Spaniards interposed here too, and told them, 
that as they had disarmed them, they could not consent that they ( the 
two ) should pursue them with firearms, and perhaps kill them. *' But,'' 
said the grave Spaniard, who was their governor, *' we will endeavour to 
make them do you justice, if you will l^ave it to us : for there is no doubt 
but they will come to us again, when their passion is over, being not able 
to subsist vrithout our assistance : we promise you to make no peace 
with them, without having a full satisfaction for you ; and upon this 
condition we hope you will promise to use no violence with them, other 
than in your own defence." The two Englishmen yielded to this very 
awkwardly, and with great reluctance; but the Spaniards protested that 
they did it only to keep them from bloodshed, and to make all easy at 
last. '< For," said they, '' we are not so many of us; here is room 
enough for us all, and it is a great pity we should not be all good friends." 
At length they did consent, and waited for the issue of the thing, living 
for some days with the Spaniards; for their own habitation was destroyed. 
In about five days' time the three vagrants, tired with wandering, and 
almost starved with hunger, having cliiefly lived on turtles' eggs all that 
while, came back to the grove; and finding my Spaniard, who, as I have 
said, was the governor, and two more with him, walking by the side of the 
creek, they came up in a very submissive, humble manner, and begged 

to be received again into the family* The Spaniards used them civilly, 



i08 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

but told them they had acted so annatarally by their countrymen, and so 
very grossly by them ( the Spaniards), that they could not come to any 
conclusion without consulting the two Englishmen and the rest ; but, 
however, they would go to them, and discourse about it, and they should 
know in half an hour. It may be guessed tliat they were very hard puC 
to it; for, it seems, as they were to wait this half hour for an answer, 
they begged they would send them out some bread in the mean time, 
which they did ; sending, at tlie same time, a large piece of goat's flesh, 
and a boUed parrot, which they ate very heartily, for they were bun- 
gry enough. 

After half an hour's consultation, they were called in, and a long de- 
bate ensued, their two countrymen charging them with the ruin of all 
their labour, and a design to murder them ; all which they owned be* 
fore, and therefore could not deny now. Upon the whole, tiie Spaniards 
acted the moderators between them ; and as they had obliged the two 
Englishmen not to hurt the three while they were naked and unarmed, 
so they now obliged the three to go and rebuild their fellows' two huts, 
one to be of the same, and the other of larger dimensions than they were 
before; to fence their ground again where they had pulled up their 
fences, plant trees in the room of those pulled up, dig up the land again 
for planting corn where they had spoiled it, and in a word, to restore 
every thing in the same state as they found it, as near as tliey could ; for 
entirely it could not be, the season for the corn, and the growth of the 
trees and hedges, not being possible to be recovered. 

Well, they submitted to all this; and as they had penty of provisions 
given them all the while, they grew very orderly, and the whole society 
began to live pleasantly and agreeably together again ; only that these 
three fellows could never be persuaded to work, I mean for themselves, 
except now and then a little, just as they pleased : however, the Spaniards 
told them plainly, that if they would but live sociably and friendly to- 
gether, and study the good of the whole plantation, they would be con- 
tent to work for them, and let them walk about and be as idle as they 
pleased : and thus having lived pretty well together for a month or two, 
the Spaniards gave them arms again, and gave them liberty to go abroad 
with them as before. 

It was not above a week after they had these arms, and went abroad, 
but the ungrateful creatures began to be as insolent and troublesome as 
before : but, however, an accident happened presently upon this, which 
endangered the safety of them all; and they were obliged to lay by all 
private resentments, and look to the preservation of their lives. 

It happened one night that the Spanish governor, as I call him, that is 
to say, the Spaniard whose life I bad saved, who w^as now the captain, 
or leader, or governor of the rest, found himself very uneasy in the night, 
and could by no means get any sleep : he was perfectly well in body, as 
he told me the story, only found his thoughts tumultuous ; his mind ran 
upon men fighting and killing of one another, but he was broad awake, 
and could not by any means get any sleep; in short, he lay a great while; 
but growing more and more uneasy, he resolved to rise. As they lay, 
being so many of them, upon goatskins laid thick upon such couches and 
pads as they made for themselves, and not in hammocks and ship beds 



OP ROBINSON CRUSOE^ 209 

sa I did, who was but one, so ihey had little to do, when they were 
willing to rise, but to get up upon their feet, and perhaps put on a coat, 
such as it was, and their pumps, and they were ready for going any way 
that their thoughts guided them. Being thus got up, he looked out; but, 
being dark, he could see litlie or nothing; and, besides, the trees which 
I had planted, as in my former account is described, and which were 
now grown tall, intercepted his sight, so that he could only look up, and 
see that it was a clear starlight night, and hearing no noise, he returned 
and laid him down again; but it was all one; he could not sleep, nor 
could he compose himself to anything like rest; bat his thoughts were to 
the last degree nneasy, and he knew not for what. 

Having made some noise with rising and walking about, going out and 
coming in, another of them waked, and calling, asked who it was that 
was up. The governor told him how it had been with him. *« Say you 
so?" says the other Spaniard; "such things are not to be slighted I 
assure you ; there is certainly some mischief working near us : " and pre- 
sently he asked him, "Where are the Englishmen?*^— "They are all 
In their huts," says he, " safe enough." It seems that the Spaniards had 
kept possession of the main apartment, and had made a place for the three 
Englishmen, who, since their last mutiny, were always quartered by 
themselves, and could not come at the rest. " Well," says the Spaniard 
" there is something in it, I am persuaded, from my own experience. I 
am satisfied our spirits embodied have a converse with, and receive in- 
telligence from, the spirits unembodied, and inhabiting the invisible 
world ; and this friendly notice is given for our advantage, if we knew 
how to make use of it. Come," says he, "let ns go and look abroad • and if 
we find nothing at all m it to justify the trouble. Til tell you a story to the 
purpose, tliat shall convince you of the justice of my proposing it." 

In a word, they went out, to go up to the top of the hill, where I used 
to go : but they being strong, and a good company, not alone, as I was 
used none of my cautions, to go up by the ladder, and pulling it up after 
them, to gp up a second stage to the top, but were going round through 
the grove, unconcerned and unwary, when they were surprised with 
seeing a light as of fire, a very little way off from them, and hearing the 
voices of men, not of one or two, but of a great number. 

In all the discoveries I had made of the savages landing on the island 
it was my constant care to prevent them making the least discovery of 
there being any mhabilant upon the place ; and when by any occasion 
they came to know it, they felt it so effectually that they that got away 
were scarce able to give any account of it; for we disappeared as soon as 
possible ; nor did ever any that had seen me escape to tell any one else 
except it was the three savages in our last encounter, who jumped into 
the boat; of whom, I mentioned, I was afraid they should go home and 
bring more help. Whether it was the consequence of the espace of 
those men that so great a number came now together, or whether they 
came ignorantly, and by accident, on their usual bloody errand, the 
Spaniards could not, it seems, understand; but, whaiever it was it' had 
been their business either to have concealed themselves, or not to have 
seen them at all, much less to have let the savages have seen that there 
were any inliabitants in the place ; or to have fallen upon them so effec- 

44 



M LIFE AND Al)V£?rrtJR£S 

taally as that not a man of them should have escaped, whldi ccmM only 
have been by getting in between them and their boats : but tlus pre- 
sence of mind was wanting to them, which was the ruin of their trao- 
qaillity for a great while. 

We need not doubt, but that the governor and the man with him, 
surprised with this sight, ran back immediately, and raised their fdiows, 
giving them an account of the imminent danger they were all in, and 
^ey again as readily took the alarm ; but it was impossible to persuade 
them to stay close within, where they were, but they must all run out 
to see how things stood. 

While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough, and they had op- 
portunity enough, for some hours, to view them by the light of three 
fires they had at a distance fVom ^ne another ; what they were doing 
they knew not, and what to do themselves they knew not. For, first, 
the enemy were too many ; and, secondly ,they did not keep together, 
but were divided into several parties, and were on shore in several places. 

The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this sight ; and as 
they found that the fellows ran straggling all over the shore, they made 
no doubt but, first or last, some of them would chop in upon their habita- 
tion, or upon some other place where they would see the token of inhal»- 
tants; and they were in great perplexity also for fear of their flock of goats, 
Xvhich would have been little less than starving them, if they should have 
been destroyed ; so the first thing they resolved upon was, to despatch three 
men away before it was lights two Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive 
idl the goats away to the great valley where the cave was, and, if need 
were, to drive them into the very cave itself. Gould they have seen the 
tavages all together in one body, and at a distance from their canoes, they 
resolved, if there had been a hundred of them, to have attacked them; 
but that could not be obtained ; for they were some of them two miles 
off from the other; and, as it appeared afterwards, were of two different 
nations. 

After having mused a great while on the course they should take, and 
treating their brains in considering their present circumstances, they re- 
solved, at last, while it was still dark, to send the old savage, Friday's 
father^ out as a spy, to learn, if possible, something concerning them; as 
what they came for, what they intended to do, and the like. The old 
man readily undertook it; and stripping himself quite naked, as most of 
iftie savages were, away he went. After he had been gone an hour or 
two, he brings word that he had been among them undiscovered ; that 
lie found they were two parlies, and of two several nations, who had virar 
with one another, and had a great battle in their own country : and thiit 
both sides having had several prisoners taken in the fight, they were, by 
tnere chance, landed all on the same island, for the devouring their pri- 
isoners, and making merry, but their coming so by chance to the same 
place had spoiled all their mirth ; that they were in a great rage at one 
another, and were so near that he believed they tvould fight again as soon 
as daylight began to appear : but he did not perceive that they had any 
notion of any body being on the island but themselves. He had hardly 
made an end of telling his story, when they could perceive, by the unusual 
noise tbey made; that the two little armies were engaged in a bloody fight* 



OF ROBmSON CRUSOE. Mli 

Friday^s laAer used all die argomenU he could to persatde our people 
lo lie close, and not be seen ; be told them their safety consisted in it, and 
4ha| they had nothing to do but lie still, and the savages would kill one 
jBOther to their hands, and then the rest would go away ; and it was so t9 
# tittle. But it was impossible to prevail, especially upon the Euglish- 
wen; their curiosity was so impoi:Uinate upon their prudentials, that thejf 
nanst run out and see the batUe : however, they used some caution too, 
im. tkey did not go openly, just by their own dwelling, but went farther 
into the woods, and placed themselves to advantage, where they might 
jttCMrely see them manage the fight, and, as they thought, not be seen 
l>y Uiem; but it seems the savages did see them, as we shall find her^ 
J^r. 

The battle was very fierce; and, if I might believe the Eoglishteen, 
mie of them said he could perceive that some of them were men of great 
Jaravery, of invincible spirit, and of great policy in guidiug tbe §ghL 
The battle, they said, held two hours before they could guiQss which 
fMffty would be beaten; but tiien tliat party which was nearest our 
|MMple^« habitation began to appear weaken, and, 4^ter some time more, 
JBome ^ them began lo fly ; and this put our men again into a great con- 
Jlecnalian, lest any one <)f those that fled sliould ruii into the grove befbra 
Hkmr ^eRing for shelter, and thereby involuntarily discover the place; 
mid that, by consequence, the pursuers would do llie like in search of 
Ibem. iUpon tiiis (hey resolved that 4hey would stand armed within the 
waH, and whoever eame into Ike grove, they re8ol¥ed to sally out over the 
wall and kill them : so that, if possible, not one should return to give an 
mocmaH of it : they ordered also that it should bedone with their swords, 
or by knodkk^ them down with the stocks of their muskets, bat not by 
«hootuig them,, for fear of raising an alarm by the noise. 

As they expected, it fell out : three of the routed army fled for life, and, 
crossing the creek, ran directly mto the place, not in the kast knowing 
whither they went, but running as into a thick w«od for shelter. The 
aoout they kept to look abroad gave notice of this wathin, with this ad- 
edition, do our men's great satisfaction, viz. thaft the conquerors had not 
forsned them, or seen which way they were gone; \xpoa this, the Spa- 
niard go^enior, a man of humanity, would not soiTer tlicm to kill the 
•Aree fhgitives, but sending three men out by (he top of the hill, ordered 
4faem to go round, ^omein beliind Ihem, and surprise and takekbem pri- 
soners, whidi was done. The residue of the conquered people fled U^ 
.their eanoes, and got off to sea ; the victors retured, made no pursuit,. or 
^ery tittle, but drawing themselves into a body together, gave two great 
screaming shouts, which they supposed was by way of triumph, and so 
"tfie fight ended : and the same day, about tlnree o'clock in the afternoon, 
ftiwy also jnarched to thdr canoes. And thus the Spaniards had thw 
fBkmd again free to tliemselves, their £clght was over, and they saw no 
savages in several years after. 

After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of their den, 
laad viewing the field of battle, they found about two and thirty men 
dtoad on the spot : some were killed with great long arrows, some of 
^whidi were stiekiag in their bodies; but most of them were kiUad 
iiBitlL<great wooden swords; sixteen ix aeveateea of which they flauad 



212 LIFE AND ADVENTORHS 

on the field of baUle, and as many bows, with a great many arrotnrs. 
These swords were strange, great, unwieldy things, and they most 
be very strong men that nsed them : most of those men that were 
killed with them had their heads mashed to pieces, as we may say, 
or, as we call it in English, their brains knocked oat, and several iheir 
arms and legs broken ; so that it is evident they fight with inexpressible 
rage and fary. We fonnd not one man that was not stone dead, for 
either they stay by their *enemy till they have qnite killed him, or they 
carry all the wounded men that are not qnite dead away with them. • 

This deliverance tamed onr Englishmen for a great while ; the sight 
had filled them with horror, and the consequences appeared terrible to 
the last degree, especially upon supposing that some time or other they 
should fall into the hands of those creatures, who would not only kill them 
as enemies, but kill them for food, as we kill our cattle; and they pro- 
fessed to me, that the thoughts of being eaten up like beef or mutton, 
though it was supposed it was not to be till they were dead, had some- 
thing in it so horrible that it nauseated their very stomachs, made them 
«ick when they thought of it, and filled their minds with such unusual 
terror that they were not themselves for some weeks after. This, as I 
said, tamed even the three English brutes I have been speaking of, and, 
for a great while after, they were tractable, and went abont the common 
business of the whole society well enough; planted, sowed, reaped, and 
began to be all naturalized to the country. But some time after this, they 
fell into such simple measures again, as brought them into a great deal of 
trouble. 

They had taken three prisoners, as I observed : and these three being 
lusty, stout young fellows, they made them servants, and taught them to 
work for them ; and, as slaves, they did well enough ; but they did not 
.take their measures with them as I cUd by my man Friday, viz. to begin 
with them upon the principle of having saved their lives, and then instruct 
them in the rational principles of life ; much less of religion, civilizing, 
and, reducing them by kind usage and aftectionate arguings ; but as they 
• gave them their food every day, so they gave them their work too, and 
kept them fully employed in drudgery enough ; but they failed in this by 
- it, that they never had them to assist them and fight for them, as I had 
. my man Friday, who was as true to me as the very flesh upon my bones. 
' But to come to the family part. Being all now good friends, for com- 
mon danger, as I said above, had effectually reconciled them, they began 
to connder their general circumstances; and the first thing that came 
under their consideration was, whether, seeing the savages particularly 
haunted that side of the island, and that there were more remote and re- 
tired parts of it equally adapted to their way of living, a^d manifestly to 
their advantage, they should not rather move their haibitation, and plant 
In some more proper place for their safety, and especially for the security 
of their cattle and com. 

Upon this, after long debate, it was concluded that they would not re- 
move their habitation, because that, some time or other, they thought 
they might hear from their governor again, meaning me; and if I should 
send any one to seek them, I should be sure to direct them to that side; 
where, if they should find the place demolished, they would condnde the 



OF ROBDfSON GRUS01&. 315 

savages had killed us all, and we were gone ; and 80 oor sopply wimld go 
too. Bat as to their com and cattle^ they agreed to remove them into 
the valley where my cave was, where the land was as proper for both, 
and where, indeed, there was land euoogh : however, upon second 
thoughts, they altered one part of their resolution too, and resolved only 
to remove part of their cattle thither, and plant part of their com there ; 
and so if one part was destroyed, the other might be saved. And one 
part of pmdence they used, which it was very well they did, viz. that 
tliey never trusted those tiiree savages, which they had prisoners, witU 
knowing anything of the plantation they had made in that valley, or off 
any cattle they had there, mnch less of the cave there, which they kept/ 
in case of necessity, as a safe retreat ; and thither they carried also the 
two barrels of powder which I had sent them at my coming away. But, 
however, they resolved not to change their habitation; yet they agreed, 
tliat as I had carefully covered it first with a wall or fortification, and 
tlieu with a grove of trees, so seeing theur safety consisted entirely in their 
being concealed, of which they were now fully convinced, they set to 
work to cover and conceal the place yet more effectually than before* 
For (his purpose, as I planted trees, or rather thrust in stakes, which in 
time all grew up to be trees, for some good distance before the entrance 
into my apartments, they went on in the same manner, and filled up 
the rest of that whole space of groimd, from the trees I had set, quite 
down to the side of the creek, where, as I said, I landed my floats, and 
even into the very ooze where the tide flowed, not so much as leaving any 
place to land, or any sign that there had been any landmg thereabouts; 
these stakes also being of a wood very forward to grow, as I have noted 
formerly, they took care to have them generally much larger and taller 
than those which I had planted ; and as Uiey grew apace, so they planted 
them so very thick and close together, that when they had been three or 
four years grown, there was no piercing with the eye any considerable 
way into the plantation : and as for that part which I had planted, the 
trees were grown as thick as a man's thigh, and among them they placed 
so many other short ones, and so tliick, that, in a word, it stood -like a 
pallisack) a quarter of a mile thick, and it was next to impossible to pene- 
trate it, but with a litUe army to cut it all down ; for a little dog could 
hardly get between the trees, they stood so dose. ^ ^ 

But this was not all ; for they did the same by all the grotnd to the right 
hand and to the left, and round even to the side of the hill, leaving no 
way, not so much as for themselves to come out, but by the ladder placed 
up to the side of the hill, and then lifted up, and placed again from the 
fir«t stage up to the top; and when the ladder was taken down, nothing 
but what had wings, or witchcraft to assist it, could come at them. This 
was excellently well contrived ; nor was it less than what they aflerwardi 
found occasion for; which served to convince me, that as hiunan pru-< 
dence has the authority of Providence to justify it, so it has doubtless the 
direction of Providence to set it to work ; and if we listened carefully to 
the voice of it, I am persuaded we might prevent many of the disasters 
which our lives are now, by our own negligence, subjected to : but t)ii8 
by the way. 

J return to the story,— They lived two years after this in perfect rf « 



n 



914 lire HID ADtKIVTDim 

tirement, dnd httd m mdrs vl^to fron the gavagetf. Thef hki ifidflM a» 
alann given them one morning, which pot themtinto a great cenfiteraa^i^ 
lion ; for some of the Spaniards being oat early one morning on the wea( 
aide, of I'ather end of the island (wiiich was that end where I never weaC, 
for fear of being discovered), they were surprised with seeing abo^e 
twenty canoes <? Indians jnst coming on shore. They made the best of 
their way home, in htvry enough ; and giving the alarm to their com- 
rades, they kept close aH Uiet day and the next, going out only at niglii 
to make their observations : but they had tlie good luck to be mistaken ; 
fbr wherever the savages went, they did not land that time on the islaiHiy 
but pursued some other design. 

Andnow they had another broil with the three Englishmen; ene et 
whom,'a most turbulent fellow, being in a rage at one of the three siavea, 
which I mentioned they had taken, because the fellow had not done seme* 
thing fight which he bid him do, and seemed a little untfactable in his 
showing him, drew a hatchet out of a frog-hell, in which he wore it by 
bis side, and fell upon the poor saVage, not to correct him, but to kill him. 
One of the Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give the fellow a bar- 
barous cat with tlie hatchet, which he aimed at his head but struck into 
his shouMer, so that he thought he had cut the poor creature's arm ofT, 
fan to him, and entreating him not to murder the poor man, placed him- 
self between him and the savage, to prevent the misdiief. The fellow 
Aeing enraged the more at this, struck at the Spaniard with his faatcfael, 
and swore he would serve him as he intended to serve the savage ; which 
HtB f^paniard perceiving, avoided the blow, and wRh a shovel which he 
bad in his hand (for they were all wcMiiing in the field about theh* eorit 
land), knocked the brute down. Another of the Englishmen running a( 
the saihe time to help his comrade, knocked the Spaniard down; and 
then two Spaniards more came in to help their man, and a third Englirfi- 
inan fell in upon them. They had none of them any firearms, or any 
Other weapons but hatdiets and other tools, except this third Englishman; 
he had one of my rusty cutlasses, with which he made at the two last 
Spaniards, and wounded them both. This fray set the whole family ill 
an uproar, and more help coming in, they took the three Englismen pi^ 
soners . The next question was, what should be done with them ? They 
had been so oflen#i^tinous, and were so very furious, so desperate, and 
SO idle wftbal, they knew not what course to take with them, for Ihey 
trere mischievous to the highest degree, and valued not what hart they 
did to any man ; so that, in sliort, it was not safe to live with them. 

The Spaniard who was governor told them, in so many words, that If 
ttiey had been of his own country, he would have hanged them ; fbr sit 
taws and all governors were to preserve society, and those who were 
dangerous to the society ought to be expelled out of it ; but as they weft 
Englishmen, and that it was to the generous kindness of an Englishman 
that they all owed their preservation and deliverance, he would use them 
with all possible lenity, and would leave them to the judgment of the 
other two Englishmen, who were their countrymen. 

One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, and said they desired it 
might not be left to them ; ^^ For," says he, '^ I am sure we ought to sen- 
tence them to the gallows :" and with that he gives an account bow WIU 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. fi% 

Alkiiufy ooe ef tbe three, bad proposed to have all tbe five EnglUhmeii 
i<mi togelber^ and marder all the .Spaniards when they were in their 
deep. 

When the Spanisb governor heard this, he calls to Will Atkins, '^How, 
Seignior Atkins, would yon mnrder us all ? What have you to say tp 
that ? " The hardened villain was so far from denying it that he said it 
vas true : and Gr-d d— n him, tliey would do it still, before they ha4 
done with tbem. ^^ Well, but Seignior Atkins," says tbe Spaniard, ^< what 
have we done to you, that you will kill us? And what would you get by 
lulliog us ? And what must we do to prevent your killing us ? Must we 
kill you, or you kill us? Why will you put us to the necessity of tbis^ 
Seignior Atkins?" says the Spaniard very calmly, and smiling. Seigniw 
Atkins was in such a rage at the Spaniard's making a jest of it, that, had 
he not been held by three men, and witha} had no weapon near him, it 
was thoogbt he would have attempted to have killed the Spaniard in the 
middle of all the company. This hair-brain carriage obliged them to 
e(»isider seriously what was to be done : the two Englishmen, and the 
Spaniard who saved the poor savage, were of the opinion tliat they should 
hang one of the three, for an example to the rest; and tliat particularly i$ 
•hourfd be he that had twice attempted to commit murder with his hatchet; 
and, indeed, there was some reason to believe he bad done it, for the poor 
savage was in sncb a miserable condition with the wound be had re- 
ceived, that it was tkouglu he could not live. But the governor Spaniard 
atill said no; it was an Englishman that had saved all their lives, and he 
would never consent to put an Englishman to death, tliough be bad mofr 
dered half of them; nay, he said, if he bad been killed himself by a^ 
Englisbman, and bad time left to speak, it should be tliat they shQuld 
pardon him. 

This was so positively insisted on by the governor Spaniard that thei:e 
was no gainsaying it ; and as merciful counsels are most apt to prevail, 
where they are so earnestly pressed, so they all came into it; but then it 
was to be considered what should be done to keep them from doing the 
miscbief they designed ; for all agreed, governor and all, that means werp 
to be used for preserving the society from danger. After a long debate, 
it was agreed, first, tliat they should be disarmed, and not permitted tp 
have either gun, powder, shot, sword, or any weapon; and should be 
tarned out of the society, and left to live where they would, and how 
Ihey woold, by themselves; but that none of the rest, either Spaniar^ft 
or English, should converse with them, speak with them, or have any<- 
tfaing to do with them : that they should be forbid to come within a ob- 
tain distance of the place where the rest dwelt ; and if they offered t^ 
eommit any disorder, so as to spoil, burn, kill, or destroy any of tl^ ^on^ 
plantings, buildmgs, fences, or catUe belonging (o (he society, they shonlil 
die without mercy, and they would shoot them wherever they could fin4 
them. 

The goiiremor, a man of great humanity, musing upon the sentence, 
considered a little upon it; and turning to tbe two honest Englisbmeii, 
said, ** Hold; you must reflect that it will be long ere they can raise com 
and cattle of their own, and they must not starve ; we must there&iy 
allsw thm promsioaa." So be foaasfid to be ^dded, ^19). \\i§^ ,»\mM 



^\(i UFE AND ADVENTURES 

have a proportion of corn given them to last them eight months, and for 
seed to sow, by which time they might be supposed to raise some of their, 
own; that they sliould have six milch goats, foar he-goats, and six kids 
given them, as well for present subsistence as for store; and that they 
should have tools given them for their work in the fields, such as six 
hatchets, an adze, a saw, and the like; bat they should have none of these 
tools or provisions, unless they would swear solemnly that they woold not 
hurt or injure any of the Spaniards with them, or of their fellow Eng- 
lishmen. 

Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them out to shift for 
themselves. They went away sullen and refractory, as neither content 
to go away nor to stay; but, as there was no remedy, they went, pre- 
tending to go and choose a place where they would settle themselves; and 
some provisions were given (hem, but no weapons. 

At)ont four or five days after, they came again for some victuals, and 
gave the governor an account where they had pitched their tents, and 
marked themselves out a habitation and plantation ; and it was a very 
convenient place, indeed, on the remotest part of the island, N. £. much 
about the place where I providentially landed in my first voyage, when I 
was driven out to sea, the Lord alone knows whitlier, in my foolish 
attempt to sail round the island. 

Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and contrived them in 
a manner like my first habitation, being close under the side of a hill, 
having some trees growing already <»i three sides of it, so that by planting 
others, it would be very easily covered from the sight, unless narrowly 
searched for. They desired some dried goat skins, for beds and covering, 
which were given them; and upon giving their words that they would 
not disturb the rest, or injure any of their plantations, they gave them 
hatchets, and what other tools they could spare; some peas, barley, and 
rice, for sowing; and, in a word, any thing they wanted, except arms 
and ammunition. 

They lived in this separate condition about six months, and had f^t in 
their first harvest, though the quantity was but small, the parcel of land 
they had planted being but little ; for, indeed, having all then* plantation 
to form, they had a great deal of work upon their hands; and when they 
came to make boards and pots, and such things, they were quite out of 
their element, and could make nothing of it : and when the rainy season 
tsame on, for want of a cave in the earth, tliey could not keep their grain 
dry, and it was in great danger of spoiling ; and this humbled (hem much : 
so they came and begged the Spaniards to help them, which they very 
readily did; and in four days worked a great hole in the side of the hill 
for them, big enough to secure their com and oUier things from the ram ; 
Ixit it was but a poor place, at best, compared to mine, and especialiy as 
mine was then, for the Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and made se- 
"^eral new apartments in it. 

About three quarters of a year after this separation, a new frolic took 

^hese rogues, which, together with the former villany they had conamilted, 

Drought mischief enough upon them, and had very near been the ruin of 

the whole colony. The three new associates began, it seems, to be weary 

4>f the laborious life tliey led, and that without hope of bettering their cir 



OF ROBINSON GAtJSOE. 817 

cnmstances; and a whim took them that they woold make a Toyage to 
tile continent, from whence the savages came, and would try if they coald 
seize upon some prisoners among ihe natives there, and bring them home, 
so as to make them do the laborious part of their work for them. 

The project was not so preposterous, if tliey had gone no farther : but 
they did nothing, and proposed nothing, but had either mischief in the 
design, or mischief in the event : and, if I may give my opinion, they 
seemed to be under a blast from Heaven; for if we will not allow a visible 
curse to pursue visible crimes, how shall we reconcile the events of things 
with the divine justice ? It was certainly an apparent vengeance on theur 
crime of mutiny and piracy tliat brought them to the state they were in; 
and they showed not the least remorse for the crime, but added new vil- 
lames to it, sucli as the piece of monstrous cruelty of wounding a poor 
slave because he did not, or perhaps could not, understand to do what he 
directed, and to wound him in such a manner as made him a cripple all 
his hfe, and in a place where no surgeon or medicine could be had for 
his cure; and wliat was still worse, the murderous intent, or, to do jus- 
tice to the crime, the intentional murder, for such to be sure it was, as 
was afterwards the formed design they all laid, to murder the Spaniards 
in cold blood, and in their sleep. 

But I leave observing^ and return to the story :^The three Mows came 
down to the Spaniards one morning, and in very humble terms desired to 
be admitted to speak with them : the Spaniards very readily heard what 
they had to say, which was this : — ^That they were tired of living in the 
manner they did; and that they were not handy enough to make the ne- 
cessaries they wanted, and that having no help, they found they should 
be starved; but if the Spaniards would give them leave to Uke one of the 
canoes which they came over in, and give them arms and ammunition 
proportioned to their defence, they would go over to the main and seek 
their fortunes, and so deliver them from the trouble of supplyuig them 
with any other provisions. 

The Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of them, but very honestly 
represented to them the certain destruction they were running uito; told 
them they had suffered such hardships upon that very spot, that they 
could, without any spirit of prophecy, tell them they would be starved or 
murdcf ed ; and bade them consider of it. 

The men replied audaciously, they should be starved if they stayed 
here, for they could not work, and would not work, and they could but 
be starved abroad ; and if they were murdered, there was an end of them ; 
they had no wives or children to cry after them : and, in short, insisted 
importunately upon their demand ; declaring they would go, whether they 
would give them any arms or no. 

The Spaniards told them, with great kindness^ that if they were re- 
solved to go, they should not go like naked men, and be in no condition 
to defend themselves : and that though they could ill spare their firearms, 
having not enough for themselves, yet they would let them have two 
muskets, a pistol, and a cutlass, and each man a hatchet, which they 
thought was suflicient for them. In a word, they accepted the offer; 
and having baked them bread enough to serve ihem a month, and given 
them as much goat's flesh as tliey could eat while it wa$ sweety and a 



Its UrC AND ABVEummss 

peai basket of dried grapes, a pot of fresh water , and a yooBg kid aUvey 
Ihey boldly set oat in the canoe for a voyage over the sea, where it was 
at least forty miles broad. 

The boat, indeed, was a large one, and would very well have carriecl 
fifteen or twenty men, and therefore was rather too big for them to ma- 
nage; but as they had a fair breeze, and flood-tide with them, they did 
vrell enough. They had made a mast of a long pole, and a sail of four 
large goat skins dried, which they had sewed or laced together; and 
away they went merrily enough : the Spaniards called after them, Bom 
voyajo; and no man ever thought of seeing them any more. 

The Spaniards were often saying to one anotlier, and to the twoboneat 
Englishmen who remained behind, how quietly and comfortably they lived, 
now these three turbulent fellows were gone; as for their coming again, 
that was the remotest tiling from their thoughts tliat could be imagined; 
when, behold, after two and twenty days absence, one of the Englishmen, 
being abroad upon his planting work, sees three strange men coming tOr 
wards him at a distance, with guns upon their shoulders. 

Away runs the Englishman, as if he was bewitched, comes frightened 
and amazed to the governor Spaniard, and tells him they were all undone^ 
for there were strangers landed upon the island, but could not tell whiK 
The Spaniard, pausing a while, says to him, ^^ How do you mean, you 
cannot tell who? They are the savages to be sure." — ^'^No, no," layi 
the Englishman ; " they are men in clothes, with arms."— •^ Nay then,^ 
says the Spaniard, ^'why are you concerned? If they are not savaget, 
they must be friends ; for there is no Christian nation upon earth bat will 
do us good rather than harm." 

While they were debating thus, came the three Englishmen, and 
standing without the wood, which was new planted, hallooed to tben r 
they presently knew their voices, and so all the wonder of that koid 
ceased. Bat now the admiration was turned upon another question, 
viz. what could be the matter, and what made Uiem come back again? 

It was not long before they brought the men in, and inquiring where 
they had been, and what they had been doing, they gave them a tvXL 
account of their voyage in a few words, viz. That they reached tlie 
land in two days, or something less ; but finding the people alarmed 
at their coming, and preparing with bows and arrows to fig^ them, 
they diirsl not go on shore, but sailed on to the northward six or seven 
hours, till they came to a great opening, by which tliey perceived thai 
the land they saw from our island was not the main, but an island) 
apon entering that opening of the sea, they saw another island on tbe 
right hand, north, and several more west; and being resolved to land 
somewhere, they put over to one of the islands which lay west, and 
went boldly on shore : that they found the people very courteous and 
friendly to them; and that they gave them several roots and some 
dried fish, and appeared very sociable; and the women, as well as the 
men, were very forward to supply them with any thing they could gel 
far them to eat, and brought it to them a great way upon their heads. 

They continued here four days; and inquired, as well as they coold 
of them, by signs, what nations were this way, and that way; and were 
told of several fierce and terrible people that lived ahnesl e^fcry waj. 



€1* lOimSOH CRUSOE. 9f# 

who, 9$ ibef niide known bj signs' to them, nsed to eat men^ bvt as for 
tibemseltes, ihey said, tbey never eat men or women, except only snch 
as tliey took in the wars; and then, they owned, they made a great 
feast, and ate their prisoners. 

The Englishmen inqnired when they had had a feast of that kind; and 
lliey told them about two moons ago, pointing to the moon, and to two 
fingers; and that their great king had two hundred prisoners now, which 
he had taken In bis war, and they were feeding them to make them fat 
Air the neat feast. The Englishmen seemed mighty desirous of seeing 
Uiose^prisoners ; bnt the others mbtaking them, thought they were desirous 
iohare some of them to carry away for their own eating; so they beckoned 
Id them, pomting to the setting of ihe son, and then to the rising; which 
was to signify that the next morning at sunrising they would bring some 
for them; and, accordingly, the next morning they brought down fire 
women and eleven men, and gave them to the Englishmen, to carry 
with Uiem on their voyage, just as we would bring so many cows and 
oxen down to a seaport town to victual a ship. 

As bmtish and barbarous as these fellows were at home, their stomachs 
tamed at this sight, and they did not know what to do. To refuse the 
prisoners would have been tlie liighest affront to (he savage gentry that 
could be offered them, and what to do with them they knew not. How- 
ever, after some debate, they resolved to accept of them; and, in return, 
fliey gave the savages that brought them one of their hatchets, an old 
key, a knife, and six or seven of their bullets; which, though they did 
not understand their use, they seemed particularly pleased with; and 
Hien tying the poor creatures' hands behind them, they draped the pri- 
soners into the boat for our men. 

The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they had them, 
or else they that gave them this noble present would certainly have expect- 
ed that they should have gone to work with them, have killed two or three 
of them the next morning, and perhaps have invited the donors to dinner. 
Bat having taken their leave, with all the respect and thanks that could 
wen pass between people, where, on either side, they understood not 
one word they could say, they put off with their boat, and came back 
towards the first island ; where, when they arrived, they set eight of 
dieir prisoners at liberty, there being too many of them for their occasion. 
In their voyage, they endeavoured to have some communication with 
their prisoners; but it was impossible to make them understand any 
^ing; nothing they could say to them, or give them, or do fDr them, bat 
was looked upon as going to murder them. They first of all unbound 
them ; but the poor creatures screamed at that, especially the women, as 
tf they had just felt the knife at their throats; for they immediately 
concluded they were unbound on purpose to be killed. If they gav^ 
them any thing to eat, it was the same thing ; they then concluded, it was 
for fear they should sink in flesh, and so not he fat enough to kill. If they 
looked at one of them more particularly, the party presently concluded; 
it was to see whether he or she was fattest, and fittest to kill first; nay, 
after they had brought them quite over, and began to use them kindly, 
and treat them well, still they expected every day to make a dinner or 
topper for their new masters. 



220 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

When the three wanderers had given this unaeconntable history or 
joaroal of their voyage* the Spaniard asked ihem where their new family 
was; and being told that they liad brought them on shore, ^d pot them 
inlo one of their huts, and were come up to beg some victuals for them, 
they (tlie Spaniards) and the other two Englishmen^ that is to say, the 
whole colony, resolved to go all down to the place and see them; and 
did so, and Friday's father with them. 

When they came into the hut, there they sat all bound ; for when they 
had brought them on shore, they bound their hands, that they might not 
take the boat and make their escape ; there, I say, they sat, all of them 
stark naked. First, there were three men, lusty, comely fellows, well 
shaped, straight and fair limbs, about thirty to thirty-five years of age; 
and five women, whereof two might be from thirty to forty; two more 
not above four or five and twenty ; and the fifth, a tall, comely maiden/ 
about sixteen or seventeen. The women were well favoured, agreeable 
persons, both in shape and features, only tawny; and two of them, had 
they been perfect white, would have passed for very handsome women, 
even in London itself, having pleasant agreeable countenances, and of a 
very modest behaviour: especially when they came afterwards to be 
clotlied and dressed, as they called it, though that dress was very indif- 
ferent, it must be confessed; of which hereaftep. 

The sight, you may be sure, was something uncouth to our Spaniards, 
who were, to give them a just character, men of the best behaviour, of 
the most calm, sedate tempers, and perfect good humour, that ever I met 
with ; and, in particular, of Uie most modesty, as will presently appear : 
I say, the sigiit was very uncouth, to see three naked men and five naked 
women all together, bound, and in the most miserable circumstances that 
human nature could be supposed to be, viz. to be expecting every momoit 
to be dragged out, and have their brains knocked out, and tlien to be 
eaten up like a calf that is killed for a dainty. 

The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian, Friday's father, to 
go in, and see, first, if he knew any of them, and then if he understood 
any of their speecii. As soon as the old man came in, he looked seriously 
at Ihem, but knew none of them ; neither could any of them understand 
a word he said, or a sign he could make, except one of the women. How- 
ever, this was enough to answer the end, wliich was to satisfy them that 
the men into whose hands they were fallen were Christians; that they 
abhorred eating men or women ; and that tliey might be sure they would 
not be killed. As soon as they were assured of this, they discoxered such 
a joy, and by such awkward gestures, several ways, as is hard to describe; 
for, it seems, they were of several nations. 

The woman who was their interpreter was bid, in the next place, to 
ask them if they were willing to be servants, and to work for the men 
who had brought them away, to save their lives ; at which they all fell a 
dancing; and presently one fell to takmg up this, and another that, any 
thing that lay next, to carry on their shoulders, to intimate that they were 
willing to work. 

The governor, who found that the having women among them would 
presently be attended with some inconvenience, and might occasion some 
strife, and perhaps blood, asked the three men what they intended to do 



r 



OF ROBINSON CKUSOfi. 221 

with these women, and how they intended to use them, whether as 
servants or as women? One of the Englishmen answered very boldly 
and readily, that they would use them as both; to which the governor 
said, ^'I am not going to restrain yoa from it; yon are yoar own masters 
as to that ; bat this I think is but jast, for avoiding disorders and quarrels 
among you, and I desire it of yon for that reason only, viz. That you 
will all engage, that if any of you take any of these women, as a woman 
or wife, that he shall take but one : and that having taken one, none else 
shall touch her; for though we cannot marry any one of you, yet it is but 
reasonable that, while you stay here, the woman any of you takes should 
he maintained by the man that takes her, and should be his wife ; I mean," 
says he, ^' while he continues here, and that none else shall have any thing 
to do with her." All this appeared so jost that every one agreed to it 
without any difficulty. 

Then the Englishman asked the Spaniards if they designed to take any 
. of them. But every one of them answered ^^ No : " some of them said 
they had wives in Spain, and the others did not like women that were 
not Christians : and all together declared that they would not touch one 
of them : which was an instance of such virtue as I have not met with in 
.all my travels. On the other hand, to be short, the five Englishmen took 
them every one a wife, that is to say, a temporary wife ; and so they set 
np a new form of living; for the Spaniards and Friday's father lived in 
my old habitation, which they had enlarged exceedingly within. The 
three servants which were taken in the last battle of the savages lived 
with them : and these carried on the main part of the colony, supplied all 
the rest with food, and assisted them in any thing as they could, or as 
they found necessity required. 

But the wonder of this story was, how five such refractory, ill matched 
fellows, should agree about these women, and that two of them should 
not pitch upon the same woman, especially seeing two or three of them 
were, without comparison, more agreeable than the others : but they took 
a good way enough to prevent quarrelling among themselves ; for they set 
the five women by themselves in one of their huts, and they went all 
into the other hut, and drew lots among them who should choose first. 

He that drew to choose first went away by himself to the hot where 
the poor naked creatures were, and fetched out her he chose; and it was 
worth observing, that he that chose first took her that was reckoned the 
homeliest and oldest of the five, which made mirth enough among the 
rest; and even the Spaniards laughed at it : but the fellow considered bet- 
ter than any of them, that it was application and business they were to 
expect assistance in, as much as in any thing else; and she proved the 
best wife of all the parcel. 

When the poor women saw themselves set in a row thus, and fetched 
out one by one, the terrors of their condition returned upon them again, 
. and they firmly believed they were now going to be devoured. Accord- 
ingly, when the English sailor came in and fetched out one of them, the 
rest set up a most lamentable cry, and hung about her, and took their 
, leave of her with such agonies and affection as would have grieved the 
hardest heart in the world; nor was it possible for the Englishmen to sa- 
tisfy them that they were not to be immediately murdered, till they 



^ LttIS AND AtoVENTURSS 

letehed the old man, Friday's father, who immediately let theoi know 
that the five men, who were to fetch them oat one hy one, had dimea 
them for their wives. 

When they had done, and the fright the women were in was a tittle 
over, the men went to work, a^d tlie S[Kiniard8 came and helped them ; 
and in a few hoars they had built them every one a new but or tent lor 
their lodging apvt; for those they had already were crowded with their 
tools, household stuff, and previsioiis. The three wicked ones had pilehed 
ferlhest off, and the two honest mies nearer, but both on the north shoie 
of the island, so that they continued separated as before ; and Chns laf 
island was peopled in three places; and, as I might say, three towns were 
begun to the built. 

And here it is very wdl worth observing, that, as it often happens kt 
the world (what the wise ends of God's providence are in sodi a dispeel- 
tioQ of things I cannot say), the two honest fellows had die (wo worst 
wives ; atid the three reprobates, that were scarce worth hanging, that 
were fit for nothing, and neither seemed bom to do themsdves good nor 
ttiy one else, had three clever, diligent, careful, and ingeuions wives; 
not that the first two were bad wives, as to their temper or humonr, for 
idl the five were most willing, quiet, passive, and subjected creatures, 
Mther like slaves than wives ; bat my meaning is, they were not alHie 
capable, ingenious, or industrioas, or alike cleanly and neat. 

Another observation I most make, to tlie honour of a dHigent applica- 
tion on one hand, and to the disgrace of a slothful, negligent, idle temper, 
«n the other, that when I came to the place, and viewed the several im- 
^ovements, plantings, and management of the several HlUe colonies, te 
two men had so far outgone the three that there we» no comparison. 
They had, indeed, both of tliem as much ground laid out for com as they 
wimted, and the reason was, because, according to my rule, natare dio- 
laied that it was to no purpose to sow more corn than they wanted; bat 
the difference of the coltivation, of the planting, of the fences, and, in- 
deed, of every thing else, was easy to be seen at first view. 

The two men had innumerable young trees planted about their huts, 
so that, when you came to the place, nothiu]^ was to be seen but a wood : 
Uid though they had twice had tlieir plantation demolished, once by their 
l»wn countrymen, and once by the enemy, as shall be shown in its place, 
yet they had restored all again, and every thing was tliriving and flou- 
fishing about them : they had grapes planted in order, and managed like 
a vineyard, though they had themselves never seen any thing of that kind; 
and, by their good ordering their vines, their grapes were as good again as 
any of the others. They had also found themselves out a retreat in the thickest 
part of the woods : where, though there was not a natural cave, as I had 
found, yet they made one with incessant labour of their hands, and where, 
when the mischief which followed happened, they secured their wives and 
children so as they could never be found ; they having, by sticking innume- 
rable stakes and poles of the wood which, as I said, grew so readily, made 
%he grove unpassable, except in some places, where they climbed up to 
^t over the outside part, and then went on by ways of their own leaving. 

As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them, though they were mudi 
tivUised by thar settlement compart to what they wofe JMnpe, and 



OF ROBINSON CEUSOE. m 

trere not so qaarrelsome, having not the same opportmiity ; yet one of the 
certain companions of a profligate mind never left them, and that was 
their idleness. It is true, they planted com, and made fences ; but Solo- 
mon's words were never better verified than in them, '^I went by the 
vineyard of the slothful, and it was all overgrown with thorns;" for when 
Che Spaniards came to view, their crop, they could not see it in some places 
for weeds, the hedge had several gaps in it, where the wild goats had got 
In and eaten np the corn ; perhaps here and there a dead bosh was cram- 
med in, to stop them out for the present, but it was only shutting the 
8labie*door after the steed was stolen : whereas, when they looked on the 
colony of the other two, there was the very face of industry and sacceas 
upon all they did ; there was not a weed to be seen in all their corn, or a 
gap in any of tlieir hedges; and they, on the other hand, verified Solo- 
mon's words in another place, ^Uhat the diligent hand makeUi ridi;" 
for every thing grew and thrived, and they had plenty within and without; 
they had more tame cattle than the others, more utensils and necessaries 
within doors, and yet more pleasure and diversion too. 

It is true, the wives of the three were very handy and cleanly within 
doors; and having learned the English ways of dressing and cooking from 
one of the other Englishmen, who as I said, was a cook's mate on board 
the ship, they dressed their husbands' victuals very nicely and well; 
whereas the others could not be brought to understand it; but then the 
hasband, who, as I say, had been cook's mate, did it himself. But as 
for the husbands of the three wives, they loitered about, fetched turtles' 
€gg8, and caught fish and birds; in a word, anything but labour; and 
they fared accordingly. The diligent lived well and comfortably; and 
the slothful lived hard and beggarly; and so, I believe, generally speak- 
ing, it is all over the world. 

But I now come to a scene different from all that had happened before, 
dther to them or to me ; and the original of the story was this : Early one 
morning, there came on shore five or six canoes of Indians or savages, 
call them which you please^ and there is no room to doubt they came 
npon the old errand of feeding upon their slaves ; but that part was now 
so fiamiliar to the Spaniards, and to our men too, that they did not con- 
cern themselves about it, as I did : but having been made sensible, by 
their experience, tliat their only business was to lie concealed, and tliat if 
they were not seen by any of the savages, they would go off again quietly, 
when their business was done, having, as yet, not the least notion of theve 
being any inhabitants in the island ; I say, having been made sensible of 
this, they had nothing to do but give notice to all the three plantations lo 
keep within doors, and not show themselves, only placing a scout in a 
proper place, to give notice when the boats went to sea again. 

This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster spoiled all these 
measures, and made it known among the savages that there were mhabi- 
tants there which was, in the end, the desolation of almost the whiAe 
colony. After the canoes with the savages were gone off, the Spaniards 
peeped abroad again ; and some of them had the curiosity to go to the 
place where they had been, to see what they had been doing. Here, to 
their great surprise, they found three savages left behind, and lying fast 
adeep opon the ground. It was supposed they had either been so gorg^ 



224 {LtfrE AND ADVEOTURES 



with their inhuman feast that, like heasts, they were fallen asleep, and 
woald not stir when the others went, or they had wandered into the 
woods, and did not come hack in lime to be taken in. 

The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and perfectly at a 
loss what to do. The Spanish governor, as it happened, was with them, 
and his advice was asked, hut he professed he knew not what to do. As 
for slaves, they had enough already ; and as to killing them, there were 
none of them inclined to that : the Spaniard governor told me, they could 
not think of shedding innocent blood : for as lo them, the poor creatui-es 
bad done them no wrong, invaded none of their property, and they 
thought they had no just quarrel against them, to take away their lives. 
And here I must, injustice to these Spaniards, observe, that let the ac- 
counts of Spanish cruelty in Mexico and Peru be what they will, I never 
met with seventeen men of any nation whatsoever, in any foreign country, 
who were so universally modest, temperate, virtuous, so very good hu- 
moured, and so courteous, as these Spaniards : and as to cruelty, they 
had nothing of it m their very nature : no inhumanity, no barbarity, no 
outrageous passions; and yet all of them men of great courage and spirit. 
Their temper and calmness had appeared in their bearing the iasufifera- 
ble usage of the three Englishmen; and their justice and humanity ap- 
peared now in the case of the savages as above. A fter some consultation, 
they resolved upon this; that they would lie still awhile longer, till, if 
possible, these three men might be gone. But then the governor Spaniard 
recollected that the three savages had no boat ; and if they were left to 
rove about the island, they would certainly discover that there were in- 
habitants in it ; and so they should be undone that way. Upon this they 
went back again, and there lay the fellows fast asleep still, and so they 
resolved to awaken them, and take them prisoners; and they did so. 
The poor fellows were strangely frightened when they were seized upon 
and bound ; and afraid, like the women, that they should be murdered 
and eaten : for it seems, those people think all the world does as they do, 
eating men's flesh ; but they were soon made easy as to that, and away 
they carried them. 

It was very happy for them that they did not carry them home to their 
castle, I mean to my palace under the hill ; but they carried them first to 
the bower, where was the chief of their country work, such as the keeping 
the goats, the planHng the corn, etc.; and afterward they carried th^m 
to the habitation of the two Englishmen. 

Here they were set to work, though it was not much they had for them 
to do; and whether it was by negligence m guarding them, or that they 
thought the fellows could not mend themselves, I know not, but one of 
them ran away, and taking to the woods, they could never hear of him 
any more. 

They had good reason to believe he got home again soon after, in some 
other boats or canoes of savages who came on shore three or four weeks 
afterwards; and who, carrying on their revels as usual, went off in two 
days' time. This thought terrified them e^^ceedingly ; for they concluded, 
and that not without good cause indeed, that if this fellow came home 
safe among his comrades, he would certainly give them an account that 
there were people in the island, and also how few and weak they were; 



v-* 



OP ROftlNSON CRUSOE. ^S 

for this savage, as I observed before, had never been tald, and it was very 
happy he had not, how many there were, or where they lived ; nor had 
he ever seen or heard tlie fire of any of their guns, much less had they shown 
him any of their other retired places ; such as the cave in the valley, 
or the new retreat which the two Englishmen had made, and the like. 

The first testimony they had that this fellow had given intelligence oC 
tbem was, that about two months after this, six canoes of savages, with 
about seven, eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing along the north 
side of the island, where they never used to come before, and landed, 
about an hour after sunrise, at a convenient place, about a mile from the 
habitation of the two Englishmen, where this escaped man had been kefit. 
As the Spaniard governor said, had they been all there, the damage 
would not have been so much, for not a man of them would have 
escaped : but the case differed now very much, for two men to fifty 
was too much odds. The two men had the happiness to discover 
them about a league off, so that it was above an hour before they 
landed ; and as they landed a mile from their huts, it was some time before 
they could come at them. Now, having great reason to believe that they 
were betrayed, the first thing they did was to bind the two slaves which 
were left, and cause two of the three men whom they brought with the 
women (who, it seems, proved very faithful to them), to lead them, with 
their two wives, and whatever they could carry away with them, to their 
retired places in the woods, which I have spoken of above, and there to 
bind the two fellows hand and foot, till they heard farther. 

In the next place, seeing the savages were all come on shore, and that 
they had bent their course directly that way, they opened the fenoes 
where the milch-goats were kept, and drove them all out^ leaving their 
goats to straggle in the woods, whither they pleased, that the savages 
might think they were all bred wild ; but the rogue who came with them 
was too cunning for that, and gave them an account of it all, for they went 
directly to the place. 

When the two poor frightened men had secured their wives and goods, 
they sent the other slave they had of the three who came with the women, 
and who was at their place by accident, away to the Spaniards with all 
speed, to give them the alarm, and desire speedy help; and in the mean 
time, they took their arms, and what ammunition they had, and retreated 
towards the place in the wood where tlieir wives were sent; keeping at a 
distance, yet so that they might see, if possible, which way the savages 
took. 

They had not gone far, but that from a rising ground they could see 
the little army of their enemies come on directly to (heur habitation, and, 
in a moment more, could see all their huts and household stuff flaming up 
together, to their great grief and mortification; for they had a very great 
loss, to them irretrievable, at least for some time. They kept theu: sta- 
tioifrfor a white, till they found the savages, like wild beasts,spread them- 
selves flill over the place, rummaging every way, and every place they 
could think of, in search of prey ; and in particular for the people, of whom, 
now, it plainly appeared they had intelligence. 

Ttietwo Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves not secure where 
they stood, because it was likely sonie of the wild people might come tha^ 

15 



LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

tray, and they mijht come too many together, thought it proper to 
make another retreat about half a mile farther : believing, as it after- 
wards happened, that the farther they strolled, the fewer would be toge- 
ther. 
Their next halt was at the entrance into a very thick-grown part of the 

trvods, and where an old trunk of a tree stood, which was hollow and 
vastly large; and in this tree they both took their standing, resolving to 
see there what might offer. They had not stood there long before two 
of the lavages appeared running directly that way, as if they already had 
notice where they stood, and were coming up to attack them; and a little 
way farther they espied three more coming after them, and five more 
be]^nd them, all coming the same way : besides which, they saw seven 
or flight more at a distance running another way; for, in a word, they ran 
erery way, lik^ sportsmen beating for their game. 

The poor men Were now in great perplexity whether they should stand 
and keep their posture, or fly ; but, after a very short debate with them- 
selves, they considered, that if the savages ranged the country thus before 
h^ came, they might perhaps find out their retreat in the woods, and 
then all wonld be lost ; so they resolved to stand them there; and if they 
were too many to deal with, then they would get up to the top of the tree, 
froiii whence thef doubted not to defend themselves, fire excepted, as 
long H their ammunition lasted, though all the savages that were landed, 
Whi6h was near fifty, were to attack them. 

Having resolved upon this, they next considered whether they should 
file at the first two, or wait for the three, and so take the middle party, 
by which the two and the five that followed would be separated ; at lengUi 
tbey resolved to let the first two pass by, unless they should spy them in 
tlM tree, and come to attack them. The first two savages confirmed them 
also in this regulation, by turning a little from them towards another part 
of the wood ; but the three, and the five after them, came forward directly 
to the tree, as if they had known the Englishmen were there. Seeing 
them come so straight towards them, they resolved to take them in a line 
as they came; and as they resolved to fire but one at a time, perhaps the 
fitBt shot might hit them ail three : for which purpose, the man who was 
ttf fkt nut thred or foul* small bullets into his piece ; and having a fair 
kMip-hoie, as it were, fi-om a broken hole m the tree, he took a sure aim, 
widloat being seen, waiting till they were within about thirty yards of the 
tree, so that he could not miss. 

While they were tl^is waituig, and the savages came on, they plainly 
s^lw that one of the three was the runaway savage that had escaped from 
them; and they both knew him distinctly, and resolved that, if possibtej 
he should not escape, though they should both fire ; so the other stood 
rtiady with his piece, that if he did not drop at the first shot, he shoold be 
sare to have a second. But the first was too good a marksman to nitf 
his aim ; for as the savages kept near one another, a little behind, in a 
Ime, h^ fired, and hit two of them directly : the foremost was kiited out- 
right, bemg shot hi the head ; the second, which was the runaway Indiaot 
was shot through the body, and fell, but was not quite dead | and the third 
had a fittle scratch in the shoulder, perhaps by .the same hall that weni 
thtoti0x the body of the second ; and being dreadfully frightened, though 



Ot ItOBmSON CRUSOE. itt 

not so mnch hart, sat down upon the ground, screaming and yelling in a 
hideons manner. 

The five that were behind, more frightened with the noise than sensible 
of the danger, stood still at first; for the woods made the sound a thousand 
thnes bigger than it really was, the echoes rattling from one side to an- 
other, and the fowls rising from all parts, screaming, and every sort mak- 
ing a different noise, according to their kind ; just as it was when I fired 
the first gun that perhaps was ever shot off in the island. 

iloweyer, all being silent again, and they not knowing what the matter 
was, came on unconcerned, till they came to the place where their com- 
panions lay in a condition miserable enough ; and here the poor ignorant 
<!lreatures, not sensible that they were within reach of the same mischief, 
stood all of a huddle over the wounded man, talking, and, as may be sup- 
posed, inquiring of him how he came to be hurt ; and who, it is very ra- 
tional to believe, told them, that a flash of fire first, and immediately after 
that thunder from their gods, had killed those two and wounded him ; this^ 
I say, is rational ; for nothing is more certain than that, as they saw no 
than near them, so they had never heard a gun in all their lives, nor so 
much as heard of a gun ; neither knew they anything of killing and wound- 
hiff at a distance with fire and bullets: if they had, one might reasonably 
bdieve they would not have stood so unconcerned in viewing the fate of 
their fellows, without some apprehensions of their own. 

Our two men, though, as they confessed to moit it grieved them to be 
obliged to kill so many poor creatures, who, at the same time, had no 
notion of their danger ; yet, having them all thus in their power, and th« 
first havinft loaded hu piece again, resolved to let fly botti together among 
them; and singling out, by agreement, which to aim at, they shot to- 
gether, and killed, or very much wounded, four of them; the fifth, fright- 
ened even to death, though not hurt, fell with the rest ; so that tnff metti 
seeing them all fall together, Uiought they had killed them all. 

The belief that the savages were all killed made our two men come boldly 
out from the tree before they had cliarged their guns, which was a wrong 
step ; and they were under some surprise when they isame to the place, and 
found no less than four of them alive, and of thend, twd very little hurt, 
and one not at all : this obliged them to fall upon them with the stocks of their 
muskets; and first they made sure iSt the runaway savage^ that had been the 
cause of all the mischief, and of another that was hurt m the knee, and pat 
them out of theur pain : then the man that was not hurt at all, came and 
kneeled down to tliem, with his two hands held op, and made pitcoua moans 
tQ them, by gestures and signs, for hislife^but could not say one word to them, 
that they could understand. However, they made signs to hiiti to sit down 
ai the foot of a tree bard by ; and one of the Englishmen, with a piece of rope 
twined, which he had by great chancb hi his pocket, Ued his two hands 

Siihid him, and there they left him : and with what speed they could made 
er the ether two, which were gone before, fearing they, or any more of 
them, should find the way to their covered place in the wobds, where their 
wes, and the few goods they had left, lay. They came once in sight of 
the two men, but it iras at a great distance; however, they had the sa- 
tiibetioa to, see them cross over a valley towards the sea, ituite the con- 
trary way from that which ted to thw retr^t, which they were afraid 



22S LIFE AND ADVENTURED 

of; and being satisfied vfiih that, they went back to the tree where they 
left their prisoner, who, as they supposed, was delivered by his comrades, 
for he was gone, and the two pieces of ropeyam, wtlh which they had 
bound him, lay just at the foot of the tree. 

They were now in as great concern as before, not knowing what 
course to take, or how near the enemy might be, or in what numbers : 
so they resolved to go away to the place where their wives were, to see if 
all was well there, and to make them easy, who were in fright enough to 
be sure; for though the savages were their own country-foik, yet they 
were most terribly afraid of them, and perhaps the more for the knowledge 
they had of them. 

When they came there, they found the savages had been in the wood, 
and very near that place, but had not found it : for it was indeed inacces- 
sible, by the trees standing so thick, as before, unless the persons seeking 
it had been directed by those that knew it, which these did not; they 
found, therefore, every thing very safe, only the women in a terrible 
fright. While they were here, they had the comfort to have seven of the 
Spaniards come to their assistance; the other ten, with their servants, 
and old Friday, I mean Friday's father, were gone in a body to defend 
their bower, and the corn and cattle that was kept there, in case the 
savages should have roved over to that side of the country ; but they did 
not spread so far. With the seven Spaniards came one of the three 
savages, who, as I said, were their prisoners formerly; and with them 
also came the savage whom the Englisiimen had left bound hand and foot 
at the tree; for it seems they came that way, saw the slaughter of the 
seven men, and unbound the eighth, and brought him along with them ; 
where^ however, they were obliged to bind him again, as they had the 
two others who were left when the third ran away. 

The prisoners now began to be a burden to them : and they were so 
afiraid of Uieur escaping that they were once resolving to kill them all, 
believing they were under an absolute necessity to do so for their own 
preservation. However, the Spaniard governor would not consent to it ; 
but ordered, for the present, that they should be sent out of the way, to 
my old cave in the valley, and be kept there, with two Spaniards to guard 
them; and give them food for their subsistence, which was done; and 
they were bound there hand and foot for that night. 

When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were so encouraged 
that they could not satisfy themselves to stay any longer there; but taking 
five of the Spaniards and themselves, with four muskets and a pistol 
among them, and two stout quarter staves, away they went in quest of 
the savages. And first they came to the tree where the men lay that had 
been killed ; but it was easy to see that some more of the savages had been 
there, for they had attempted to carry tlieir dead men away, and had 
dragged two of them a good way, but had given it over. From thence 
they advanced to the first rising ground, where they had stood and seen 
their camp destroyed, and where they had the mortification &ii}{ to see 
some of the smoke : but neither could they here see any of the savages. 
They then resolved, though with all possible caution, to go forward, 
towards their ruined plantation : but a little before they came thither, 
coming in sight of the seashore, they saw plainly the jsavages all embarked 



OF EOBmSON CRUSOE. 220 

again in their canoes, in order to be gone. They seemed sorry, at first, 
that there v/as no way to come at them, to give them a parting blow; but, 
upon the whole, they were very well satisfied to be rid of them. 

The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, and all their improve- 
ments destroyed, the rest all agreed to come and help them to rebuild, 
and to assist them with needful supplies. Their three countrymen, who 
were not yet noted for having the least inclination to do any good, yet as 
soon as they heard of it (for they living remote eastwani, knew nothing of 
tlie matter till all was over), came and offered their help and assistance, 
and did, very friendly, work for several days, to restore tlieir habitation, 
and make necessaries for them. And thus, in a little time, they were seC 
upon their legs again. 

About two days after this, they had the farther satisfaction of seeing 
three of the savages' canoes come driving on shore, and, at some distance 
from them, two drowned men : by which they had reason to believe that 
they had met with a storm at sea, which had overset some of them; foe it 
had blown very hard the night after they went off. 

However, as some might miscarry, so, on the other hand, enough of 
them escaped to Inform the rest, as well of what they had done as of 
what had happened to them, and to whet them on to another enterprise 
of the same nature ; which they, it seems, resolved to attempt, with suf- 
ficient force to carry all before them : for except what the first man had 
told them of inhabitants, they could say little of it of their own knowledge, 
for they never saw one man ; and the fellow being killed that had affirmed 
it, they had no other witness to confirm it to them. 

It was five or six months after this before they heard any more of the 
savages, in which time our nien were in hopes they had either forgot 
their former bad luck, or given over hopes of better; when, on a sudden, 
they were invaded with a most formidable fleet of no less than eight and 
twenty canoes, full of savages, armed with bows and arrows, great clubs, 
wooden swords, and suchlike engines of war; and they brought such 
numbers with them, that, in short, it put all our people into the utmost 
consternation. 

As they came on shore in the evening, and at the easternmost side of 
the island, our men had that night to consult and consider what to do; 
and, in the first place, knowing that their being entirely concealed was 
their only safety before, and would be much more so now, while the 
number of their enemies was so great,' they therefore resolved, first of 
all, to take down the huts which were built for the two Englishmen, and 
drive away their goats to the old cave ; because they supposed the savages 
would go directly thither, as soon as it was day, to play the old game 
over again, though they did not now land within two leagues of it. In 
the next place, they drove away all the flocks of goats they had at the old 
bower, as I called it, which belonged to the Spaniards ; and, in short, left 
as little appearance of inhabitants any where as was possible : and the 
next morning early they posted themselves, with ail their force, at the 
plantation of the two men, to watt for their coming. As they guejsed, so 
it happened: these new invaders, leaving their canoes at the eas /end of 
the island, came rangmg along the shore, directly towards th2 place, to 
the number of (wo hundred and fifty, as near as our men couM judge. 



SM UFE ANP ADVENTDEE5 

Oar ariDY was bnt small, indeed; bat that which w^ worse, they ha4 
not arms for all their nomher neither. The whole acconnt, it s6eins. 
stood thos : first, as to men, seventeen Spaniards, five Englishmen, old 
Friday, or Friday's father, the three slaves taken with the women, who 
proved very faithful, and three other slaves, who lived with the Spaniards, 
To arm these, they had eleven muskets, five pistols, three fowlingpieces, 
five muskets, or fowlingpieces, which were taken by me from the muti- 
nous seamen whom I reduced, two swords, and three old halberts. 

To their slaves they did not give either musket or fusee, but they ha(| 
every one a halbert, or a long staff, like a quarter-staff, with a great spike 
of iron fastened into each end of it, and by his side a hatchet : also every 
one of our men had a hatchet. Two of the women could not be prevailed 
upon but they would come into the fight, and they had bows and arrows, 
which the Spaniards had taken from the savages when the first acUoR 
happened, which I have spoken of, where the Indians fought with oo^ 
another ; and the women bad hatchets too. 

The Spaniard governor, whom I described so often, commanded the 
whole : and Will Atkins, who, though a dreadful fellow for wickedness, 
was a most daring, bold fellow, commanded under him. The savages 
came forward like lions ; and our men, which was the worst of their fete, 
had no advantage in their situation; only that Will Atkins, who now 
proved a most useful fellow, with six men, was planted just behind a 
small thicket of bushes, as an advanced guard, with orders to let the first 
of them pass by, and then fire into the middle of them, and as soon as he 
had fired, to make his retreat as nimble as he could round a part of the 
wood, and so come in behind theiSpaniards, where they stooQi having a 
thicket of trees before them. 

When the savages came on, they ran straggling about every wav U^ 
heaps, out of all manner of order, and Will Atkins let about fifty of theia 
pass by him ; then seeing the rest come in a very tliick throng, he ocders 
three of his men to fire, having loaded their muskets with six or sevea 
bullets apiece, about as big as large pistol-bullets. How many they 
killed or wounded they knew not, but the consternation and surprise wag 
inexpressible among the savages; they were frightened to the last degree 
to hear such a dreadful noise, and see their men killed, and others hart, 
but sei^ nobody that did it ; when, in the middle of their fright, Will 
Atkins and his other three let fly again among the thickest of then); and 
in less than a minute the first three being loaded again, gave them a 
third volley. 

Had Will Atkins and his men retired immediately, as soon as they had 
fired, as they were ordered to do, or had the rest of the body been at 
hand, to have poured in their shot continually, the savages had been effe^ 
tually routed ; for the terror that was among them came principally from 
this, viz. that they were killed by the gods with thunder and lightning, 
and could see nobody that hurt them; but Will Atkins, staying to load 
again, discovered the cheat : some of the savages who were at a distance 
spying them, came upon them behind; and though Atkins and his men 
ired at them also, two or three times, and killed above twenty, retiring as 
fest as they could, yet they wounded Atkins himself, and killed one of his 
fellow Englishmen with their arrows, as they did afterwards one Spaniards 



;0F ROBINSON CRUSOE* 811 

and one of the Indian slaves who came with the women. Thb dave was 
a paost gallant fellow, and foaght most desperately', killing five of them 
with his own hand; havuig no weapon but one of the armed staves and 
a hatchet. 

Our men being thns hard laid at, Atkins wounded^ and two other men 
killed, retreated to a rising ground in the wood ; and the Spaniards, after 
firing three volleys upon them, retreated also ; for their number was so 
great, and they were so desperate, that though above fifty of them were 
killed, and more than as many wounded, yet they came on In the teeth of 
our men, fearless of danger, and shot their arrows like a cloud; and it was 
observed that their wounded men, who were not quite disabled, were 
made outrageous by their wounds, and fought like madmen. 

When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and the Englishman 
that were killed behind them ; and the savages, when they came op to 
them, killed them over again in a wretched manner, breaking their arms, 
legs, and heads, with their clubs and wooden swords, Uke true savages ; 
but finding our men were gone, they did not seem to pursue them, bat 
drew themselves up in a ring, which is, it seems, theur custom, and 
shouted twice, in token of their victory ; after which, they had the morti* 
fication to see several of then: wounded men fall, dying with the mere 
loss of blood. 

The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up togethef upon 
a rising ground, Atkins, though he was wounded, would have had them 
march and charge again all together at once : but the Spaniard replied, 
'^ Seignior Atkins, you see how their wounded men fight : let them alone 
till morning; all the wounded men will be stiff and sore with Uteir wounds, 
and faint with the loss of blood ; and so we shall have the fewer to en- 
gage.'' This advice was good; but Will Atkins replied merrily, ''That 
IS true, Seignior, and so shall I too ; and that Is the reason I wonld go on 
while I am warm.V— '' Well, Seignior Atkins," says the Spaniard, '' yon 
have behaved gallantly, and done your part; we will fight for yoo, if yoo 
cannot come on; but I think it best to stay till morning:" so tliay 
waited. 

But as it was a dear moonlight night, and they found the savages in 
great disorder about their dead and wounded men, and a great noise and 
hurry among them where they lay, they afterwards resolved to fall upon 
them in tlie night; especially if they could come to give them but one 
volley before they were discovered, which they had a fiiir opportunity to 
do; for one of the Englishmen, in whose quarter it was where the fight 
began, led them round between the woods and the seaside westward, 
and then turning short south, they came so near where the thickest of 
them lay, that, before they were seen or heard, eight of them fired In 
among them, and did dreadful execution upon them ; in half a minnte 
more, eight others fired after them, pourmg in their small shot In such a 
quantity, that abundance were killed and wounded; and all this while 
they were not able to see who hurt them, or which way to fly. 

The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition, and then di- 
vided Uiemselves in three bodies, and resolved to fall in among them all 
together. They had m each body eight persons, that is to say, twenty- 
two men, and the two women, who, by the way, fought desperaiely. 



252 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

They divided the fire-arms equally in each party, and so the halberts and 
slaves. They would have had the women kept back, but they said they 
were resolved to die with their husbands. Having thus formed their 
little army, they marched out from among the trees, and cam6 up to the 
teeth of the enemy, shouting and hallooing as loud as they could ; the 
savages stood all together, but were in the utmost confusion, hearing the 
noise of our men shouting from three quarters together : they would have 
fought if they had seen us; for as soon as we came near enough to be 
seen, some arrows were shot, and poor old Friday was wounded, though 
not dangerously ; but our men gave them no time, but, running up to 
them, fired among them three ways, and then fell in with the but-ends 
of their muskets, their swords, armed staves, and hatchets, and laid about 
them so well that, in a word, they set up a dismal screaming and howling^ 
flying to save their lives which way soever they could. 

Our men were tired with the execution, and killed or mortally wounded 
in the two fights about one hundred and eighty of them ; the rest, being 
frightened out of their wits, scoured through the woods and over the 
hills, with all the speed fear and nimble feet could help them to ; and as 
we did not trouble ourselves much to pursue them, they got all together 
to the seaside where they landed, and where their canoes lay. But their 
disaster was not at an end yet ; for it blew a terrible storm of wind that 
evening from the sea, so that it was impossible for them to go off; nay, 
the storm continuing all night, when the tide came up, their canoes were 
most of them driven by the surge of the sea so high upon the shore that 
it required infinite toil to get them off; and some of them were even 
dashed to pieces against the beach, or against one another. 

Our men, though glad of their victory, yet got little rest that night ; 
but having refreshed themselves as well as thev could, they resolved to 
^ march to that part of the island where the savages were fled, and see what 
posture they were in. This necessarily led them oKr the place where 
the fight had been, and where they found several of the poor creatures 
not quite dead, and yet past recovering life ; a sight disagreeable enough to 
generous minds ; for a truly great man, though obliged by the law of 
battle to destroy his enemy, takes no delight in his misery. However, 
there was no need to give any orders in this case; for their own savages, 
who were their servants, despatched these poor creatures with their hat- 
chets. 

At length, they came in view of the place where the more miserable 
remains of tlie savages' army lay, where there appeared about a hundred 
still : their posture was generally sitting upon the ground, with their knees 
up towards their mouth, and the head put between the two hands, lean- 
ing down upon the knees. 

When our men came within two musket-shots of them, the Spaniard 
governor ordered two muskets to be fired, without ball, to alarm them : 
this he did, that by their countenance he might know what to expect, 
viz. whether they were still in heart to fight, or were so heartily beaten 
• as to be dispirited and discouraged, and so he might manage accordingly. 
This stratagem took ; for as soon as the savages heard the first gun and 
saw the flash of the second, they started up upon their feet in the greatest 
consternation imagiQabie : and as our men advanced swiftly towards 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 233 

them, they all rair screaming and yelling away, with a kind of howling 
noise, which our men did not understand, and had never heard before; 
and tims they ran up the hills into the country. 

At first our men had much rather the weather had been calm, and they 
had all gone away to sea ; but they did not then consider that this might 
probably have been the occasion of their coming again in such multitudes 
as not to be resisted, or, at least, to come so many and so often, as would 
quite desolate the island, and starve them. Will Atkins, therefore, who, 
notwithstanding his wound, kept always with them, proved the best 
counsellor in this case : his advice was, to take the advantage that offered, 
and clap in between them and their boats, and so deprive them of the ca- 
pacity of ever returning any more to plague the island. 

They consulted long about this ; and some were against it for fear of 
making the wretches fly to the woods and live there desperate, and so 
they should have them to hunt like wild beasts, be afraid to stir out about 
their business, and have their plantations continually rifled, all their 
tame goats destroyed, and, in short, be reduced to a life of continual 
distress. 

Will Atkins told them they had better have to do with a hundred men 
than with a hundred nations : that as they must destroy their boats, so 
they must destroy the men, or be all of them destroyed themselves. In 
a word, he showed them the necessity of it so plainly that they all came 
into it : so they went to work immediately with the boats, and getting 
some dry wood together from a dead tree, they tried to set some of them 
on fire, but they were so wet that they would not burn; however, the 
fire so burned the upper part that it soon made them unfit for swimming 
in the sea as boats. When the Indians saw what they were about, some 
J|^_ of them came running out of the woods, and coming as near as they could 
^ to our men, kneeled down and cried, " Oa, Oa, Waramokoa," and some 
other words of their language, which none of the others understood any 
thing of ; but as they made pitiful gestures and strange noises, it was easy to 
understand they begged to have their boats spared, and that they would 
be gone, and never come there again. But our men were now satisfied 
that they had no way to preserve themselves, or to save their colony, but 
effectually to prevent any of these people from ever going home again : 
depending upon this, that if even so much as one of them got back into 
their country to tell the story, the colony was undone ; so that, letting 
them know that they should not have any mercy, they fell to work with 
their canoes, and destroyed them every one that the sterm had not de- 
stroyed before; at the sight of which the savages raised a hideous cry in 
the woods, which our people heard plain enough, after which they ran 
about the island like distracted men; so that, in a word, our men did not- 
really know what at first to do with them. Nor did the Spaniards, with 
all their prudence, consider, that while they made those people thus des- 
perate, they ought to have kept a good guard at the same time upon their 
plantations ; for though, it is true, they had driven away their cattle, and 
the Indians did not find out their main retreat, I mean my old castle at 
the hill, nor the cave in the valley, yet they found out my plantation at the 
bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and all the fences and planting about it; 
trod all the corn under foot, tore up the vines <tnd grapes, being just iheii 



2SM UFE AND ADVKNTLIHES 

almost ripe, and did onr men an inestimable damage, thon^ to tbem,* 
selves not one fulhing's worth of service. 

Thongh our men were able to fight them upon all occasions, yet thef 
were In no condition to pursue them, or hunt them up and down; for as 
they were too nimble of foot for onr men, when they found them single, 
so our men durst not go abroad single, for fear of being surrounded with 
their numbers. The best was, they had no weapons; for though they 
had bows, they had no arrows left, nor any materials to make anyi nag 
had they any edged tool or weapon among them. 

The extremity and distress they were reduced to was great, and indeed 
deplorable; but, at the same time, our men were also Inrought to very 
bad cutmmstances by them; for though their retreats were preserved, 
yet their provision was destroyed, and their harvest spoiled ; and what 
to do, or which way to turn themselves, they knew not. The only re- 
fuge they had now was, the stock of cattle diey had in the valley by the 
eave, and some little com which grew there, and the plantation of the 
three Englishmen, Will Atkins and his comrades, who were now reduced 
to two ; one of them being killed by an arrow, which struck him on the 
side of his head, just under the temples, so that he never spoke mmre : 
and it was very remarkable that this was the same barbarous fellow that 
cut the poor savage slave with his hatchet, and who afterwards intended 
to have murdered the Spaniards. 

I looked upon their case to have been worse at this time than mine was 
at any time, after I first discovered the grains of barley and rice, and got 
into Uie manner of planting and raising my corn, and my tame cattle; 
for now they had, as I may say, a hundred wolves upon the island, which 
would devour every thing they could come at, yet could be hardly come 
at themselves. 

When they saw what then* circumstances were, the first thing they 
oondnded was, that they would, if possible, drive them up to the further 
part of the island, south-west, that if any more savages came on shore 
they might not find one another; then that they would daily hunt and 
harass them, and kill as many of them as they could come at, till they 
had reduced their number; and if they could at last tame them, and 
bring them to any thing, they would give them command teach them bow 
to plant, and live upon theu: daily labour. 

In order to this, they so followed them, and so terrified them with their 
guns, that in a few days, if any of them fired a gun at an Indian, if he 
did not hit him, yet he would fall down for fear ; and so dreadfully firight- 
ened they were that they kept out of sight farther and farther; tiU, at 
last, onr men following them, and almost every day killing or wonndiqg 
wome of them, they kept up in the woods or hollow places so much that it 
reduced them to the utmost misery for want of food; and many were 
afterwards found dead in the woods, without any hurt, absolutely starred 
to death. 

When our men found this, it made their hearts relent, and pity moved 
them, especially the Spaniard governor, who was the most gentlemanlike, 
generous minded man that I ever met with in my life; and he proposed, 
if possible, to take one of them alive, and bring him to understand what 
they meant, so for as to be able to act as inteipreter^ and go awoog tbem. 



OF EOimSON G&USOE* 

gild AM if tbay Dugbl be bcooght to some condition thai might be der 
peoded upoa, to save their lives and do us no harm. 

It was some while before any of them coaid be taken ; bat being weak 
and half starved, one of them was at last surprised and made a prisoner. 
He was sullen at first, and would neither eat nor drink : but finding him- 
self kindly used, and victuals given him, and no violenoe offered him, be 
at last grew tractable, and came to himself. They brought old Friday to 
him, who talked often with him, and told him bow kind the others would 
be to them all ; that they would not only save their lives, but would give 
tbem part of the island to live in, provided they would give satisfrction 
that they would keep in their own bounds, and not come J^eyond it to 
Injure or pr^udice others; and that they should have com given them to 
plant and make it grow for their bread, and some bread given them for 
their present subsistence: and old Friday bade the fellow go and talk 
witb the rest of his countrymen, and see what they said to it; assuring 
them, that if they did not agree immediately, they should be all do* 
atroyed. 

The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in number to 
about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the first offer, and begged 
to have some food given them; upon which, twelve Spaniards and two 
Englishmen, well armed, with three Indian slaves and old Friday, marched 
to the place where they wero. The three Indian slaves carried them a 
large quantity of broad, some rice boiled up to cakes and dried in the 
son, uid three live goats; and they were ordered to go to the side of a 
hill, where they sat down, ate thw provisions very thankfully, and wero 
the most fiiithfd fellows to their words that could be thought of; for ex- 
cept when they came to beg victuals and directions, they never came out 
of theur boondB; and there they lived when I came to the island, and I 
went to see them. 

They had taught them both to plant com, make bread, breed tame 
goats, and milk tbem : they wanted nothing but wives, and they soon 
would have been a nation. They were confined to a neck of land, sur- 
rounded with high rocks behind them, and lying plain towards the sea 
before them, on the south-east comer of the island. They had land enou^, 
and it was very good and fraitfol; about a mile and a half broad, and 
three or four miles in length. 

Ovr men taught them to make wooden spades, such as I made for 
myself, and gave among them twelve hatchets and three or four knives, 
and there they lived, the most subjected innocent creatures that ever were 
beard of. 

After thfe, the cofony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity, with respect to tho 
aavages, till I came to revisit them, which was about two years after; not 
but that, now and then, some canoes of savages came on shore for theit 
triumphal, unnatural foasts ; but as they were of several nations, and 
perhaps had never heard of those that came before, or the reason of it, 
they did not make any search or inquiry after their countrymen; and if 
they had, it would have been very hard to have found them out. 

Thus, I think, I have given a full account of all that happened to them 
till my return, at least, that was worth notice. The Indians or savages 
wonderfoUy dvUiied by them, and they frequently went among 



25iS LIFE AMD ADVEIHTURES 

them; but forbid^ on pain of death, any one of the Indians coming to 
them, because they would not have their settlement betrayed again. 
One thing was very remarkable, viz. that they taught the savages to make 
wickerwork, or baskets, but they soon outdid their masters; for they 
made abundance of most ingenious things in wickerwork, particularly all 
sorts of baskets, sieves, birdcages, cupboards, etc. ; as also chairs to sit 
on, stools, beds, couches, and abundance of other things ; being very 
ingenious at such work, wlien they were once put in the way of it. 

My coming was a particular relief to these people, because we furnish- 
ed them with knives, scissars, spades, shovels, pickaxes, and all things of 
that kind iidiich they could want. With the help of those tools they 
were so very handy that they came at last to build up their huts, or 
houses, very handsomely, raddling or working it up like basket-work all 
the way round; which was a very extraordinary piece of ingenuity, and 
looked very odd, but was an exceeding good fence as well against heat as 
against all sorts of vermin; and our men were so taken. with it, that they 
got the wild savages to come and do the like for them; so that when I 
came to see the two Englishmen's colonies, they looked, at a distance, as 
if they all lived like bees in a hive. As for Will Atkins, who was now 
become a very industrious, useful, and sober fellow, be had made himself 
such a tent of basket-work as, I believe, was never seen; it was one 
hundred and twenty paces round on the < outside, as I measured by my 
steps; the walls were as close worked as a basket, in pannels or squares 
of thirty-two in number, and very strong, standing about seven feet 
high : in the middle was another not above twenty-two paces round, but 
built stronger, being octagon in its form, and in the eight corners stood 
eight very stnmg posts; round the top of which he laid strong pieces, 
pinned together with wooden pins, from which he raised a pyramid for 
a roof of eight rafters, very handsome, I assure you, and joined together 
very well, though be had no nails, and only a few iron spikes, which he 
made himself too, out of the old iron that I had left there; and, indeed, 
this fellow showed abundance of ingenuity in several things which he had 
no knowledge of: he made him a forge, with a pair of woodeii bellows to 
blow the fire ; he made himself charcoal for his work ; and he formed 
out of the iron crows a middling good anvil to hammer upon : in this 
manner he made many things, but especially hooks, staples, and spikes, 
bolts and binges.— But to return to the house : After he had. pitched the 
roof of his innermost tent, he worked it up between the rafters with 
basket-work, so firm, and tliatched that over again so ingeniously with 
rice-straw, and over that a large leaf of a tree, which covered the top, 
that his house was as dry as if it had been tiled or slated. Indeed, he 
owned that the savages had made the basket-work for him. The outer 
circuit was covered as a lean-to, all round this inner apartment, and long 
rafters lay from the thirty-two angles to the top posts of the inner house, 
being about twenty feet distant, so that there was a space like a walk 
within the outer wicker-wall and without the inner, near twenty feet 
wide. 

The inner place he partitioned off with the same wickerwork, but 
much fairer, and divided into six apartments, so that he had six rooms 
on a floor, and out of every one of these there was a door; first into the 



6F ROBINSON CAUSOE, tS7 

enlry, or coming into the innin tent, another door into the main tent, and 
another door into 1 he space or walk that was round it ; so tliat walk was 
also divided into six equal parts, which served not only for a retreat, but 
to store up any necessaries which the family had occasion for. These 
six spaces not taking up the whole circumference, what other apartments 
the outer circle had were thus ordered : As soon as yon were in at the 
door of the oiiter circle, yon had a short passage straight before you to 
the door of the inner house : but on either side was a wicker partition, 
and a door in it, by which you went first into a large room, or storehouse, 
twenty feet wide and aliout thirty feet long, and through that into an- 
other,' not quite so long ; so that in the outer circle were ten handsome 
rooms, six of which were only to be come at through the apartments of 
the inner tent, and served as closets or retiring rooms to the respective 
chambers of the inner circle; and four large warehouses, or bams, or 
what you please to call them, which went through one another, two on 
either hand of the passage, that led through the outer door to the inner 
tent. 

Such a piece of basket-work, I believe, was never seen in the world, 
nor a house or tent so neatly contrived, much less so built. In this great 
beehive lived the three families, that is to say. Will Atkins and his 
companion^ the third was killed, but his wife remained, with three 
children, for she was, it seems, big with child when he died : and the 
other two were not at all backward to give the widow her full share of 
every thing, I mean as to their com, milk, grapes, etc. and when they 
killed a kid, or found a turtle on the shore; so that they all lived well 
enough ; though, it was true, they were not so industrious as the other 
two, as has been observed already. 

One thing, however, cannot be omitted, viz. that^as for religion, I do 
not know that there was any thing of that kind among them : they ofken^ 
indeed, put one another in mind that there was a God, by the very com- 
mon method of seamen, viz. swearing by his name : nor were their poor 
ignorant savage wives much better for having been married to Christians, 
as we must call them ; for as they knew very little of God. themselves, 
so they were utterly incapable of entering into any discourse with their 
wives about a God, or to talk any thing to them concerning religion. 

The utmost of all the improvement which I can say the wives had 
made from them was, that they had taught them to speak English pretty 
well ; and most of their children, which were near twenty in all, were 
taught to speak English too, from their first learning to speak, though they 
at first spoke it in a very broken manner, like their mothers. There was 
none of these children above six years old w^hen I came thither, for it 
was not much above seven years that they had fetched these five savage 
ladies over; but they had all been pretty fruitful, for they had all chil- 
dren more or less ; I think the cook's mate's wife was big of her sixth 
child ; and the mothers were all a good sort of well governed, quiet, 
laborious women, modest and decent, helpful to one another, mighty 
observant and subject to their masters (I cannot call them husbands), and 
wanted nothing but to be well instructed in the Christian religion, and 
to be legally married ; both which were happily brought about afterwards 
by my means, or, at least, in consequence of my coming among them. 



fM ISfE AUD ADV£NTUE£3 

Bavfiig dns gifen an aeeoont of tbe ooloiiy in generdy and pr^^ 
of my nmagate English, I most say sonM^hing of the Spaniards, who 
were the main l)ody of the family, and in whose story there are some 
ineldaits also remarkable enongh. 

I had a great many discoorses with them about their circomstances 
when they were among the savages. They told me readily that they had 
no instances to give of their application or ingenuity in that country; that 
they were a poor, miserable, dejected handful of people ; that if means 
had been put into their hand^, yet they had so abandoned themselves to 
despair, and so sunk under the weight of thdr misfortune, that they 
thought of nothing but starving. One of them, a grave and sensible man^ 
told me he was convinced they wei-e in the wrong; that it was not the 
part of wise men to give themselves up to their misery, but always to take 
hold of the helps which reason offered, as well for present support as for 
fhture deliverance : he told me that grief was the most senseless iusignifi- 
(5ant passion in the world, for that it regarded only things past, which 
were generally impossible to be recalled, or to be remedied, but had no 
views of things to come, and had no share in any thing that looked like 
deliverance, but rather added to the affliction than proposed a remedy; 
and upon this he repeated a Spanish proverb, which though I cannot 
repeat in just the same words that he spoke it in, yet I remember I made 
it Into an English proverb of my own, thus : 

In trouble to be troid)Ied, 

Is to htTe your trouble donbled. 

Be ran bn tfien in reniiarks npon all the little improvements I had ^de 
in my solitude ; my unwearied application, as he called it; and how I had 
made a condition wBidi in its circumstances was at first much worse than 
thsirs, a thousand times more happy than theirs was, even now wheii 
they were all together. He told me it was remarkable that Englishmen 
had a greater presence of mind, in their distress, than any people that 
ever he met with : that their unhappy nation and the Portuguese were 
the worst men in the world to struggle with misfortunes ; for that their 
fltst step in dangers, after the common efforts were over, was to despair, 
lie down under it, and! die, without rousing their thoughts up to proper 
remedies for escape. 

I told hiin their case and mine differed exceedingly; that they were 
eilt upon the shore without necessaries, without supply of food, or present 
sttstenance till they could provide it : that, it was true, I had this disad- 
v^ttta^ and discomfort, that I was alone; but then the supplies I had 
ph)vldentially thrown into my hands, by the unexpected driving of the 
sitfp on ^re, was such a help as would have encouraged any creature in 
the world to have applied hhnself as 1 had done. '^ Seignior,'* says the 
Spaniard, "had we poor Spaniards been in your case, we should never 
have got half those things out of the ship, as you did : nay," says he, " we 
should hever have found means to have got a raft to carry them, or to 
have got the raft on shore without boat or sail : and how much less should 
we have done If any of us had been alone! " Well, I desh«d him to 
Aate his compliment^ and go on with the history of their coming on 
^ore, where they landed. He told me they unhappily landed at a pMoe 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. m 

where there were people without proyisions ; whereas, had they had the 
common sense to have put off to sea again, and gone to another island a 
little farther, they had found provisions, though without people ; there 
being an island that way, as they had been told, where there were pro- 
visions, though no people ; that is to say, that the Spaniards of Trinidad 
had freqaently been there, and had filled the island with goats and hogs 
at several times, where they had bred in such multitudes, and where 
tartle and seafowls were in such plenty, that tbey could have been in no 
want of flesh, though they had found no bread; whereas here, they were 
only sustained with a few roots and herbs, which they understood not, and 
which had no substance in them, and which the inhabitants gave them 
sparingly enough ; and who could treat them no better, unless they would 
turn cannibalsy and eat men's flesh, which was the great dainty of their 
country. 

They gave me an account how many ways they strove to civilize the 
savages they were with, and to teach them rational customs in the ordi- 
nary way of living, but in vain ; and how they retorted it upon them, as 
unjust, that they, who came there for assistance and support, should at- 
tempt to set up for instructors of those that gave them food; intimating, 
it seems, that none should set up for the instmctors of others bat those 
.who could live without them. 

They gave me dismal accounts Of the extremities they were driven to ; 
how soonetimes they were many days without any food at all, the island 
they were upon being inhabited by a sort of savages that lived more indo- 
lent, and for that reason were less supplied with the necessaries of life 
than they had reason to believe others were in the same part of the world t 
and yet they found that these savages were less ravenoos and voracioiis 
than those who had better supplies of food. Also they added, they could 
not bat see with what demonstrations of wisdom and goodness die go- 
verning providence of God directs the events of things in this world; 
whicli, they said, appeared in thehr circumstances; for if, pressed hy the 
hardships they were under, and the barrenness of the country where they 
were, Ibey had searched after a better to live in, they had then been out 
of the way of the relief that happened to them by my means. 

They then gave me an account how the savages whom they lived among 
expected them to go out with them into their wars ; and, it was true, that 
as they had firearms with them, had they not had the disaster to lose 
their ammunition, they should have been serviceable not only to their 
Mends, bat have made themselves terrible both to friends and enemies; but 
being without powder and shot, and yet in a condition that they coold not 
in reason deny to go out with their landlords to their wars, so when they 
came into the field of battle, they were in a worse condition than (he sa- 
vages themselves, for they had neither bows nor arrows, nor could they 
use those the savages gave them ; so they could do nothing but stand stilly 
and be wounded with arrows, till they came up to the teeth of their ene- 
my ; and then, indeed, the three halberds they had were of use to them ; 
and they would often drive a whole little army before them with those 
halberds, and sharpened sticks put into the muzzles of their nraskets ; 
b«t that, for all this, they were sometimes sarrounded with multitudes, 
vid uk great danger from their arrows, till at last, they found the way to 



240 LIFE AND ADVEfiTURES 

make themsekes large targets of wood, whicli they covered with skins of 
wild beasts, whose names they knew not, and these covered them from 
the arrows of tiie savages : that, notwithstanding these, Ihey were some- 
times in great danger ; and five of them were once knocked down together 
with the clubs of the savages, wliich was the time when one of them was 
taken prisoner, that is to say, the Spaniard whom I had relieved : that at 
first they thought he had been killed ; but when they afterwards heard 
he was taken prisoner, they were under the greatest grief imaginable, and 
would willingly have all ventured their lives to have rescued him. 

They told me that when they were so knocked down, the rest of their 
company rescued them, and stood over them fighting till they were come 
to themselves, all but him who they thought had been dead ; and then they 
made their way with their halberds and pieces, standing close together 
in a line, through a body of above a thousand savages, beating down all 
that came in their way, got the victory over their enemies, but to their 
great sorrow, because it was with the loss of their friend, whom the other 
party, finding him alive, carried off, with some others, as I gave an account 
before. 

They described, most affectionately, how they were surprised with joy 
at the return of their friend and companion in misery, who, they thought, 
had been devoured by wild beasts of the worst kind, viz. by wild men ; 
and yet, how more and more they were surprised with the account he 
gave them of his errand, and that there was a Christian in any place near, 
much more one that was able, and had humanity enough, to contribute 
to thdr deliverance. 

They described how they were astonished at the sight of the relief I 
sent them, and at the appearance of loaves of bread, things they had not 
seen since their coming to that miserable place; bow often they crossed 
and blessed it as bread sent from Heaven ; and what a reviving cordial it 
was to their spirits to taste it, as also the other things I had sent for their 
supply : and, after all, they would have told me something of the joy they 
were in at the sight of a boat and pilots, to carry them away to the person 
and place from whence all these new comforts came, but it was impossi* 
ble to express it by words, for their excessive joy naturally driving them 
to unbecoming extravagances, they had no way to describe them, but by 
telling me they bordered upon lunacy, having no way to give vent to their 
passions suitable to the sense that was upon them; that in some it worked 
one way, and in some another; and that s6me of them, through a surprise 
of joy, would burst into tears, others be stark mad, and others immedi- 
ately faint. This discourse extremely affected me, and called to my mind 
Friday's ecstasy when he met his father, and the poor people's ecstasy 
when I took them up at sea after their ship was on fire ; the joy of the 
mate of the ship when he found himself delivered in the place where he 
expected to perish ; and my own joy, when, after twenty-eight years* 
captivity, I found a good ship ready to carry me to my own country. 
All these things made me more sensible of the relation of these poor 
men, and more affected with it. 4 

Having thus given a view of the state of things as I found them, I must 
relate the heads of what I did for these people, and the condition in which 
I left them. It was their opinion, and mine too, that they would be 



Ot AOIUNSON CEUSOfi. Ui 

troubled no more with the saTages^ or, if they were, they would be able 
to cut them off, if they were twice as many as before; so they had oo 
concern about that. Then I entered into a serious discourse with the 
Spaniard, whom I call governor, about their stay m the island; for as I 
was not come to carry any of tliem off, so it would not be just to carry off 
some and leave others, who, perhaps, would be unwilling lo stay if their 
strength was diminished. On the other hand, I told them I came lo es- 
tablish them there, not to remove them : and then I let them know that 
I had brought with me relief of sundry kinds for them ; that I had been 
at a great charge to supply them with all things necessary, as well for 
their convenience as their defence; and that I had such and such parti- 
cular persons with me, as well to increase and recruit their number, as 
by the particular necessary employments which they were bred to, being 
artificers, to assist them in those things in which at present they were in 
want. 

They were all together when I talked thus to them; and before I 
delivered to them the stores I had brought, I asked them, one by one, if 
they had entirely forgot and buried the first animosities that had hem 
among them, and wocdd shake hands with one another, and engage in a 
strict friendship and union of interest, so that there mi§^it be no more 
misunderstandings and jealousies. 

Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good humour^ said, they 
had met with affliction enough to make them all sober, and enemies 
enough to make them all friends; that, for his part, he would live and 
die with them ; and was so far from designing any thing against tlie Spa- 
niards, that he owned they had done nothing to him but what his own 
mad humour made necessary, and what he would have done, and perhaps 
worse, in their case; and that he would ask them pardon, if I desired it, 
for the foolish and brutish things he had done to them, and was very 
willing and desirous of living in terms of entire friendship and union with 
them, and would do any thing that lay in his power to convince them of 
it; and as for going to England, he cared not if he did not go thiiher 
these twenty years. 

The Spaniards said they had, indeed, at first disarmed and excluded 
Will Atkins and his two countrymen for their ill conduct, as they had 
let me know, and they appealed to me for the necessity they were under 
to do so; but that Will Atkins had behaved himself so bravely in the 
great fight they had with the savages, and on several occasions since, and 
had showed himself so faithful to, and concerned for, the general interest 
of them all, that they had forgotten all that was pasficd, and thought he 
merited as much to be trusted with arms, and supplied willi necessaries, 
as any of them; and they had testified their satisfocUon in him, by com- 
mitting the command to hun, next to the governor hunself, and as they 
had entire confidence in him and all his countrymen, so they acknow- 
ledged they had merited that confidence by all the methods that honest 
men could merit to be valued and trusted; and they most heartily em- 
braced the occasion of giving me this assurance, that they would never 
have any interest separate from one another. 

Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we appomted the 
next day to dine all together; and, ndeed, we made a splendid feast. I 

16 



242 LIFE AI«) ADVENTURES 

caused the ship's cook and his mate to come on shore and dress our din- 
ner, and the'oui cook^s mate we had on shore assisted. We brought on 
flhore six pieceis of good beef, and ibar pieces of pork, out of the ship's 
provisions, with ourpanchbowl, and materials to fill it; and in particular^ 
I gave ^em ten bottles of French claret, and ten bottles of English beer ; 
things that ndther the Spaniards nor the English had tasted Ibr many 
fearS) and which it may be supposed they were very glad of. *the Spa- 
niards added to our f^ast ^xe whole kids, which the cooks roasted; and 
three of them were sent, covered up close, on board the ship to the 
•eamen, that they might Ibast on fresh meat from on shore, as we did 
with their salt meat fki)m on board. 

After this feast, at which we were very innocently merry, t brought 
•at my cargo of goods; wherein, that there might be no dispute about 
dividing, I showed that there was a sufficiency for them all, desiring 
that they might aU take an equal quantity of the goods that were fbr 
wearing ; that is to say, equal when made up. As, first, I distributed 
luien suflideBt to make every one of them four shirts, and, at the Spa- 
niards' re<|ae8t, afterwards made them up six; these were exceeding 
oomfbrtable to them, having been what, as I may say, they bad long 
fiince forgot the use of, or what it was to wear them. I allotted the thin 
English stuffs, which I mentioned before, to make everjf one a light coat 
like a frock, which I judged fittest for the heat of the season, cool and 
loose; and ordered that whenever they decayed they should make more, 
as they thought fit; the like fbr pumps, ^oes, stockings, hats, etc. 

I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction, sat upon the counte- 
nances of all these poor men, when they saw the care I had taken of 
them, and how wefi I had Airnished them. They told me I was a father 
t» them; and that having such a correspondent as I was in so remote a 
part of the world, it would make them forget that they were left in a de- 
solate place ; and they all vc^untarily engaged to me not to leave the place 
witiiout my consent. 

Then I presented to them the people I had brought with me, particu- 
larly the tailor, the smith, and the two carpenters, ail of them most neces- 
sary people ; but, above all, my general artificer, tlian whom they could 
net name any tl^ng Hiat was more useful to tiiem, and the tailor, to show 
U concern for th^, went to work immediately, and, with my leave, 
made them every one a shirt, the first thing lie did ; and, which was still 
more, he taught the women not only how to sew and stitch, and use the 
the needle, but made them^assist to make the shirts for their husbancb, 
and for all the rest. 

As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how usefdl they were; for 
they took to pieces all my clumsy, unhandy things, and made them clever, 
eonvenient tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers, shelves, and eve- 
ry tMng they wanted of that kind. But to let them see how nature made 
attificers at first, I carried the carpenters to Will Atkins's basket-house, 
iA I called it : and they both owned they never saw an it^tauce of such 
Natural ingenuity before, nor any thing so regular and so handily built, 
at least of its kind ; and one of them, when he saw it, after musing a good 
whilC) turning about to me, ^' I am sure," says he, *' that man has no 
iieed of us; >ott need do nothing but give hhn tools. ** 



OF ROBINSOK CaUSO£. itf 

Then t brought them out all my store of tools^ and ^ave every man a 
i^ng spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had no harrows or ploughs; 
and to every separate place a pickaxe, a crow,. a broad axe, and a saw ; 
Hlwdys appointing, that as often as any were broken or worn out, they 
should be supplied, without grudging, out of the general stores that l left 
behind. Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chisels, knives, scissars, and all 
sorts of iron-work, they had without tale, as they required ; for no man 
would lake more than he wanted; and he must be a fool that would waste 
at spoil them on any account whatever ; and for the use of the smith, I 
left two totid of un wrought iron for a supply. 

My magazine of powder and arms which I brought them was such, 
«fen to profusion, that they could not but rejoice at them; for now they 
w^ld march as I used to do, with a musket upon each shoulder, if there 
was occasion ; and were able to fight a thousand savages, if they had but 
some little advantages of situation, Which also they could not miss, if they 
bad oecasion. 

I earrled on shore with me the young man whose mother was starved 

19 death, and the maid also : she was a sober, well educated, religious 

young womdn, and behaved so inoffensively, that every one gave her a 

good word; she had, indeed, an unhappy life with us, there being no 

woman in the ship but herself, but she bore it with patience. After a 

while, seeing things so well ordered, and in so fine a way of thriving upon 

itiy island, and considering that they had neither business nor acquain- 

taiiee in the East Indies, or reason for taking so long a voyage ; I say, 

eensiderlng all this, both of them came to me, and desired I would give 

tlieni leave to remain on the island, and be entered among my family, as 

they ea}l«d it^ I agreed to this readily; and they had a little plot of 

fFoand altotted to them, whefe they had three tents or houses set up, 

sorroiinded with a basket-work, pallisadoed like Atkins's, adjoining to 

his plantation. Their tents were contrived so that they had each of them 

a room apart td lodge in, and a middle tent like a great storehouse, to lay 

their goods in, and to eat and drink in. And now the other two Eng^ 

Kshmen removed their habitation to the same place; and so the island was 

divided into three colonies, and no more, viz. the Spaniards, with old 

Friday and the first servants, at my old hahitation under the bill, which 

was, in a word, the capital city; and where they had so enlarged and 

eitended thetr works, as well under as on the outside of the hill, that they 

lived, though perfectly concealed, yet full at large. Never was there sue!) 

k 111 tie elty in a wood, and so hid, in any part of tiie world; for I verily 

believe a thousand men might have ranged the island a month, and, if 

they had not known there was such a thing, and looked on purpose for 

H, they would net have fbuud it ; for the trees stood so thick and so close, 

and grew so fast woven one into another, that nothing but cutting them 

down first could discover the place, except the only two narrow entrances 

wh#re tiiey went in and out could be found, which was not very easy; one 

of them was close down at the water's edge on the side of the creek, and 

il was afterwards above two hundred yards to the place; and the other 

VMS up a ladder at twice, as I have already formerly described it; and 

they had also a large wood, thick planted, on the top of the bill, con- 

VMti0 above an aere, which grew apace^ and concealed the place from 



244 UFE AT«B ADVENTURES 

all discovery there, with only one narrow place between two trees, not 
easily to be discovered, to enter on that side. 

The other colony was that of Will Atkins, where there were four fa- 
milies of Englishmen, I mean those I had left there, with their wiv€s 
and children; three savages that were slaves; the widow and the children 
of the Englishman that was killed; the young man and the maid, and, by 
the way, we made a wife of her before we went away. There was also 
the two carpenters and the tailor, whom I brought wiib me for them, 
also the smith, who was avery necessary man to them, especially as a gun- 
smith, to take care of their arms; and my other man, whom I called Jack 
of all trades, who was in himself as good almost as twenty men; for be 
was not only a very ingenious fellow, but a very merry fellow ; and before 
I went away we married him to the honest maid that came with the 
youth in the ship I mentioned before. 

Aud now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally to say something 
of the French ecclesiasUc that I had brought with me out of the ship's 
crew whom I took up at sea. It is true, this man was a Roman, and 
perhaps it may give offence to some hereafter, if I leave any thing ex- 
traordinary upon record of a man whom, before I begin, I must (to set 
bim out in just colours) represent in terms very much to his disadvantage, 
n the account of protestants : as, first, that he was a Papist ; secondly, a 
Popish priest; and, thirdly, a French Popish priest. But justice demands 
of me to give him a due character ; and I must say, he was a grave, sober, 
pious, and most religious person ; exact in his life, extensive in his cha- 
rity, and exemplary in almost every thing he did. What then can any 
one say against being very sensible of the value of such a man, not- 
withstanding his profession ? though it may be my opinion, perhaps, 
as well as the opinion of others who shall read this, that he was mis- 
taken. 

The first hour that I began to converse with him after he had agreed 
to go with me to the East Indies, I found reason to delight exceedingly 
in his conversation; and he first began with me about religion in the most 
obliging manner imaginable. ^^ Sir," says he, ^^ you have not only 
under God (and at that he crossed his breast) saved my life, but you have 
admitted me to go this voyage in your ship, and by your obliging civility 
have taken me into your fanUly, giving me an opportunity of free conver- 
sation. Now, Sir, you see by my habit what my profession is, and I 
guess by your nation what yours is; I may think it is my duty, and 
doubtless it is so, to use my utmost endeavours, on all occasions to bring 
all the souls I can to the knowledge of the truth, and to embrace the Ca- 
tholic doctrine ; but as I am here under your permission, and m your £91- 
mily, I am bound injustice to your kindness, as well as in decency and 
good manners, to be under your government ; and therefore I shall not, 
without your leave, enter into any debate on the points of religion in 
which we may not agree, farther than you shall give me leave." 

I told him his carriage was so modest Uiat I could not but acknowledge it; 
thai it was true, we were such people as they called heretics, but that he 
was not the first Catholic I had conversed with, without falling into in- 
conveniences, or carrying the questions to any height in debate; that he 
should not find himself the worse used for being of a different opinion 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 345 

from us ; and if we did not converse withoot any dislike on either side, it 
should be his fault, hot ours. 

He replied, that he thought all our conversation might be easily se- 
parated from disputes : that it was not his busmess to cap principles with 
every man he conversed with ; and that he rather desir^ me to converse 
with him as a gentleman than as a religionist; and that, if I would give 
him leave at any time to discourse upon religious subjects, he would readily 
comply with it, and that he did not doubt but I would allow him also to 
defend his own opinions as well as he could, but that, without my leave, 
he would not break in upon me with any such thing. He told me farther, 
that he would not cease to do all that became him in his office as a priest, 
as well as a private Christian, to procure the good of the ship, and the 
safety of all that was in her; and though, perhaps, we would not join 
with him, and he could not pray with us, he hoped he might pray for us, 
which he would do upon all occasions. In this manner we conversed ; and, 
as he was of the most obliging, gentlemanhke l)ehaviour, so he was, if I may 
be allowed to say so, a man of good sense, and, as I believe, of great learning. 

He gave me a most diverting account of his life, and of the many ex- 
traordinary events of it ; of many adventures which had befallen him 
in the few years that he had been abroad in the world; and particularly 
this was very remarkable, viz. that in the voyage he was now engaged in, 
he had the misfortune to be five times shipped and unshipped, and never 
to go to the place whither any of the ships he was in were at first de- 
signed. That his first intent was to have gone to Martinico, and that he 
went on board a ship bound thither at St. Malo : but, being forced into 
Lisbon by bad weather, the ship received some damage by running aground 
in the mouth of Uie river Tagus, and was obliged to unload her cargo 
there ; but finding a Portuguese ship there bound to the Madeiras, and 
ready to sail, and supposing he should easily meet with a vessel there 
bound to Martinico, he went on board, in order to sail to the Madeiras ; 
but the master of the Portuguese ship, being but an indifferent mariner, 
had been out of his reckoning, and they drove to Fyal; where, however, 
he happened to find a very good market for his cargo, which was corn, 
and therefore resolved not to go to the Madeiras, but to load salt at the 
isle of May, and to go away to Newfoundland. He had no remedy in this 
exigence but to go with the ship, and had a pretty good voyage as far as 
the Banks (so they call the place where they catch the fish) ; where meet« 
ing with a French ship bound from France to Quebec, in the river of Ca- 
nada, and from thence to Martinico, to carry provisions, he thought he 
should have an opportunity to complete his first design ; but when he 
came to Quebec, the master of the ship died, and the vessel proceeded no 
farther; so the next voyage he shipped himself for France, in the ship tliat 
was burned when we took them up at sea; and then shipped with us for 
the East Indies, as I have already said. Thus he had been disappointed 
in five voyages, all, as I may call it, in one voyage, besides what I shall 
have occasion to mention farther of the same person. 

But I shall not make digression into other men's stories, which have no 
relation to my own ; I return to what concerns our affairs in the island. 
He came to me one morning, for be lodged am^ng us all the while we 
were upon the island, and it happened to he just when I was gQing to 



146 LIFE AND ADVENTDRES 

Tisil the EAgKtfhmeii's colony, at the farthest furrt ofthe island. | $37, 
he came to me, and told me, with a very grare countenance, that he bad 
for two or three days desired an opportnnity of some discom^e with roe, 
which he hoped would not be displeasing to me, because he thought It 
Biiglit in some measure correspond wiih my general design, which was, 
the prosperity of my new cblony, and perhaps might put it, at least more 
than he yet thought it was, in the way of God's blessing. 

I looked a little surprised at the last part of his discourse, and turning 
9 little short, ^^How, Sir," said I, ^'can it be said that we are not in the 
way of God's blessing, after such visible assistances and wonderful d^li- 
yerances as we have seen here, and of which I have given yon a lar^e 
aceount?"— -^4f you had pleased, Sir," said he, with a world of modesty, 
and yet with great readiness, 'Ho have heard me, you would have found 
no room to have been displeased, much less to think so hard of me, that 
I should suggest that you have not had wonderful assistances and delive- 
rances; and I hope, on your behalf, that you are in the way of God's 
blessing, as your design is exceeding good, and will prosper : but, S|r, 
though it were more so than is even possible to you, yet there may be 
some among you that are not equally right in their actions : and yon 
.know^ that in the story of the children of Israel, one Achan in the camp 
removed God's blessing from them, and turned his hand so agaiqst them 
that six and thirty of them, though not concerned in the crime, were the 
<^ject8 of divine vengeance, and bore the weight of that punishment." 

I was sensibly touched with his discourse, and told him his inference 
was so just, and the whole design seemed so sincere, and was really so 
religious in its own nature, that I was very sorry I had interrupted him^ 
and begged him to go on : and, in the meantime, because it seemed that 
what we had both to say might take up some time, I told him I was 
going to the Englishmen's plantations, and asked him to go with me, and 
we might discourse of it by the way. He told me he would the more 
willingly wait on me thither, because there partly the thing was acted 
which he desired to speak to me about; so we walked on, and I pressed 
him to be free and plain with me in what he had to say. 

"Why then. Sir," says he, "be pleased to give me leave to lay dovm a 
few propositions, as the foundation of what I have to say, that we may 
not diffier in the general principles, though we may be of some differing 
opinions in the practice of particulars. First, Sir, though we differ in 
some of the doctrinal articles of religion, and it is very unhappy it is so, 
especially in the case before ns, as I shall show afterwards, yet there are 
some general principles in which we both agree, viz. that there Is a God; 
and that this God having given us some stated general rules for our 
service and obedience, we ought not willingly and knowingly to offend 
him, either by neglecting to do what he has commanded, or by doln^ 
what he has expressly forbidden : and let our different religions be what 
they will, this general principle is readily owned by us all, that the bless- 
ing of God does not ordinarily follow presumptuous sinning against his 
command; and every good Christian will be affectionately concerned to 
prevent any that are under his care living in a total neglect of God and 
his commands. It is not your ipen being Protestants, whatever my 
opsioft may be of loch, that discharges me from being oonceroed for 



OP ROBINSON CkUSCSE. 247 

t(ieir souls, and from endeaToaring, if it lies before me, that tbey skoold 
live in as great distance from enmity wilh their Maker as possihle, eq;ie- 
cially if yon give me leave to meddle so far in your circuit." 

I could not yet imagine what he aimed at^ and told him I granted all 
he had said, and thanked him that he would so far comeem himself for 
us; and begged he would explain the particulars of what he had ohservedj 
that, like Joshua, to take his own iHu*able, I might put away the accursed 
thing from us. 

"Why then, Sir," says he, "I will take the liberty you give me; and 
there are three things, which, if I an> ^ight, must stand in the way of 
God's blessing upon your endeavours ber^, and which I should rejoice, 
for your sake, and their own, to see removed : and, Sir, I promise myself 
that you will fully agree with me in them all, as soon as I naipe them; 
especially b^ause I shall convince you that every one of them may, with 
great ease, and very much to your satisfaction, be remedied. First, Sir," 
says he, '^you have here four Englishmen, who have fetched women from 
among the savages, and have taken them as their wives, and have had 
many children by them all, and yet are not married to them after any 
stated, legal manner, as the laws of God and man require; and therefore 
are yet, in the sense of both, no less than fornicators, if not living in 
adultery. To this, Sir, I know you will object that there was no der- 
gyman or priest of any kind, or of any profession, to perform the cere- 
mony i^ nor any pen and ink, or paper, to write down a contract of mar- 
riage, and have it signed between them ; and I know also. Sir, what the 
Spaniard governor has told you, I mean, of the agreement that he obliged 
them to make when they took those women, viz. that they should choose 
them out by consent, and keep separately to them; which, by the way, is^ 
nothing of a marriage, no agreement with the women, as wives, bat only 
an agreement among themselves, to keep them from quarreling. But, 
51r, the essence of the sacrament of matrimony (so he called it« being a 
Roman) consists not only in the mutual consent of the parlies to take one 
another as man and wife, but in the formal and legal obligation that there 
is iu the contract, to compel the man and woman, at all limes, to own 
and acknowledge each other; obliging the man to abstain from all other 
women, to engage in no other contract while theses subsist; and, on all 
occasions, as ability allows, to provide honestly for them and theur cliil- 
dren ; and to oblige the women to the same, or like conditions, midatis 
Ifiutandis, on their side. Now, Sir," says he, *^these men may, when 
they please, or when occasion presents, abandon these, women, disown, 
their children, leave them to perish, and take other women, and marry 
them while these are living:" and here he added, with some warmth, 
**How, Sir, is God honoured in this unlawful liberty? and how shall a 
blessmg succeed your endeavours in this place, however good in them- 
selves, and however i*iucere in your design, while these men, who at 
present are your subjects, under your absolute government and domuuon, 
are allowed by you to live in open adultery ?" 

I confess I was struck with the thing itself, but much more with the 
convincing arguments he supported it witli; for it wa^.certamly true, that 
though they had no clergyman upon tlie spot, yet a formal contract on 
hoth sides, made before witnesses, and confirmed by any token which 



148 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

they had all agreed to be bound by, though it had been bat breaking a 
stick between them, engaging the men to own these women for their 
wives upon all occasions, and never to abandon them or their children, 
and the women to the same with their husbands, had been an efTectual 
lawful marriage in the sight of God; and it was a great neglect that it was 
not done. But I thought to have got off my young priest by telling him 
that all that part was done when I was not here; and they had lived so 
many years with them now, that if it was adultery, it was past remedy ; 
they could do nothing in it now. 

* 'Sir,'' says he, ^'asking your pardon for such freedom, you are right 
in this, that, it being done in yOur absence, you could not be charged 
with that part of the crime ; but, I beseech you, flatter not yourself that 
you are not therefore under an obligation to do your utmost now to put 
an end to it. How can you think but that, let the time past 11^ on whom 
it will, all the guilt, for the future, will lie entirely upon yon? because it 
is certainly in your power now to put an end to it, and in nobody's power 
but yours." 

I was so dull still that I did not take him right; but I imagined that, 
by putting an end to it, he meant that I should part them, and not suffer 
them to live together any longer ; and I said to him I could not do that 
by any means, for that would put the whole island into confusion. He 
seemed surprised that I should so far mistake him. ^^No, Sir," says he, 
'^I do not mean that you should now separate them, but legally and 
effectually marry them now ; and as. Sir, my way of marrying them may 
not be easy to reconcile them to, though it will be effectual, even by your 
own laws, so your way ma^be as well before God, and as valid among 
men; I mean, by a written contract signed by both man and woman, and 
by all the witnesses present, which all the laws of Europe would decree to 
be valid." 

I was amazed to see so much true piety, and so much sincerity of zeal, 
besides the unusual impartiality in his discourse as to his own party or 
church, and such true warmth for preserving tlie people that he had no 
knowledge of or relation to ; I say for preserving them from transgressing 
the laws of God, the like of which I had indeed not met with anywhere : 
but, recollecting what he had said of marrying them by a written con- 
tract, which I knew he would stand to, I returned it back upon him, and 
told him, I granted all that he had said to be just, and on his part very 
kind; that I would discourse with the men upon the point now, when I 
came to them; and I knew no reason why they should scruple to let him 
marry them all, which I knew well enough would be granted to be as 
authentic and valid in England as if they were married by one of our own 
clergymen. What was afterwards done in ^s matter, I shall speak of 
by itself. 

I then pressed him to tell me what was the second complaint which he 
had to make, acknowledging that I was very much his debtor for the first 
and thanked him heartily for it. He told me he would use the same 
freedom and plainness in the second, and hoped I would take it as well ; 
and this was, that notwithsanding these English subjects of mine, as he 
called them, had lived with those women for almost seven years, had 
taught them to speak jBoglish, and even to read it, and that they were, as 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 149 

he perceived, women of tolerable anderstanding, and capable of instmc- 
tion^ yet they had not, to this hour, taaght them anything of the Christian 
religion, no, not so much as to know that there was a God, or a worship, 
or in what manner God was to be served ; or that their own idolatry, and 
worshiping they knew not whom, was false and absard. This, be said, 
was an unaccountable neglect, and what Grod would certainly call them 
to account for, and perhaps , at last, take the work out of their hands : — 
he spoke this very affectionately and warmly. ^^I am persuaded," says 
he, '' had those men lived in the savage country whence their wives 
came, the savages would have taken more paias to have brought them to be 
idolaters, and to worship the devil, than any of these men, so far as I can 
see, have taken with them to teach them the knowledge of the tnie God. 
Now, Sir," said he, ^' though I do not acknowledge yoar religion, or you 
mine, yet we would be glad to see the devil's servants, and the subjects 
of his kingdom, taught to know the general principles of the Christian re- 
ligion; that they might, at least, hear of God and a Redeemer, and of 
the resurrection, and of a future state,— things which we all believe; 
they had, at least, been so much nearer coming into the bosom of the 
trne church than they are now, in the public profession of idolatry and 
devil-worahip." 

I could hold no longer ; I took him in my arms, and embraced him 
with an excess of passion. ^'How far," said I to him, *^have I been 
from understanding the most essential part of a Christian ! viz. to love 
the interest of the Christian church, and the good of other men's souls : I 
scarce have known what belongs to the being a Christian." — '^ O Sir ! do 
not say so," replied he, " this thing is not your fault." — "No," said I; 
** but why did I never lay it to heart as well as you?" — " It is not too late 
yet," said he : ** be not too forward to condemn yourself. — "But what can 
be done now ?" said I ; " you see I am going away." — ".Will you give me 
leave to talk with these poor men about it?" — " Yes, with all my heart," 
said I; "and will oblige them to give heed to what you say too."^"As to 
that," said he, "we must leave them to the mercy of Christ; but it is 
your business to assist them, encourage them, and mstruct them; and if 
you give -me leave, and God his blessing, I do not doubt but the poor igno- 
rant souls shall be brought home to the great circle of Christianity, if not 
into the particular faith we all embrace, and that even while yon stay 
here." Upon this I said, " I shall not only give you leave, but give you 
a thousand thanks for it." What followed on this account I shall men- 
tion also again in its place. 

I now pressed him for the third article in which we were to blame. 
*'Why, really," says he, "it is of the same naiure; and I will proceed, 
asking your leave, with the same plainness as before : it is about your 
poor savages, who are, as I may say, your conquered subjects. It is a 
maxini. Sir, that is, or ought to be, received among all Christians, of what 
church or pretended church soever, viz. the Christian knowledge ought 
to be propagated by all possible means, and on all possible occasions. It 
is on this principle that our church sends missionaries into Persia, India, 
and China ; and that our clergy, even of the superior sort, willingly en- 
gage in the most hazardous voyages, and the most dangerous residence 
aqnong murderers and barbarians, to teach (hem the knowledge of the 



250 LIFE AISB ADVimTJRES 

tnie Gods and to bring them over to embrace the Christian feith. No^ 
Sir, yoa have sach an opportunity here to have six or seven and thirty 
poor savages broaght over from idolatry to the knowledge of God, their 
Maker and Redeemer, that I wonder how you can pass such an occasion 
of doing good, which is really worth the expense of a man's whole life." 

I was now struck dumb, indeed, and had not one word to say. I had 
here a spurit of true Christian zeal for God and religion before me, let his 
particular principles be of what kind soever : as for me, I had not so much 
as entertamed a thought of this in my heart before, and I believe I should 
not have thought of it ; for I looked upon these savages as slaves, an() 
people whom, had we had any work for them to do, we would have used 
as such, or would have been glad to have transported them to any other 
part of the world : for our business was to get rid of them ; and we would 
all have been satisfied if they had been sent to any country, so they had 
never seen their own. But to the case ;— I say, I was confounded at his 
discourse, and knew not what answer to make him. 

He looked earnestly at me, seeing me in some disorder — '^Sir/' says he,. 
^' I shall be very sorry if what I have said gives you any offence."— "No, 
no," said I, "I am offended with nobody but myself; but I am perfectly 
confoonded, not only to think that I should never take any notice of this 
before, but with reflecting what notice I am able to take of it now. \oa 
» know. Sir,'' said I, ''what circumstances I am in; I am bound to the 
East Indies in a ship freighted by merchants, and to whom it would be 
an insufferable piece of injustice to detain their ship here, the men lying 
all this while at victuals and wages on the owners' account. It is true, 
I agreed to be allowed twelve days here, and if I stay more, I must pay 
three pounds sterling per diem demurrage; nor can I stay upon demur- 
rage above eight days more, and I have been here thirteen already ; so that 
I am perfectly unable to engage in ibis work, unless I would suffer myself 
to be left behind here again ; in which case, if this smgle ship should 
miscarry in any part of her voyage, I should be just in the same condi- 
tion that I was left in here at first, and from which I have been so won- 
derfully delivered." He owned the case was very hard upon me, as to 
my voyage ; but laid it home upon my conscience, whether the blessing 
of saving thirty-seven souls was not worth venturing all I had in the world 
for. I was not so sensible of that as he was. I returned upon him thus : 
'' Why, Sir, it is a valuable thing, indeed, to be an instrument in God's 
hand to convert thirty-seven heathens to the knowledge of Chrbt ; but as 
you are an ecclesiastic, and are given over to the Avork, so that it seems 
so naturally (o £^11 into the way of your profession, how is it then that yoa 
do not rather offer yourself to undertake it than press me to do it?" 

Upon this he &ced about just before me, as he walked along, and put- 
ting me to a full stop, made me a very low bow. '' I most heartily thank 
God and you, Sir," said he, '' for giving me so evident a call to so blessed 
a work ; and if yon think yourself discharged from it, and desire me to 
undertake it, I will most readily do it, and think it a happy reward for all 
the hazards and difliculties of such a broken, disappointed voyage as I have 
met with, that I am dropped at last into so glorious a work." 

I discovered a kind of rapture in his face while he spoke this to me | his 
eyes sparkled like fire, his face glowed, and his colour came and went, as 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 251 

if be had been felling into fits; in a word, he was fired witli tlie joy of 
being embarlced in sacli a work. I jiaused a considerable while hefore I 
ODold tell what to say to him ; for I was really surprised to find a man of 
sach sincerity and zeal, and carried out in his zeal beyond the ordinary 
rate of men, not of his profession only, but even of any profession what- 
floeTer. But alter I had considered it awhile, I asked him seriously if he 
was in earnest, and that he would venture, on the single consideration of 
an attempt on those poor people, to he locked up in an unplanted island 
for perhaps his life, and at last might not know whether he should be able 
to do them good or not ? 

He turned short upon me, and asked me what I called a venture? 
** Pray, Sir," said he, ^* what do you think I consented to go in your 
ship to the East Indies for?"—*' Nay," said I," *Uhat I know not, unless 
it was to preach to the Indians."—'^ Doubtless it was," said he; '^ and do 
yon think, if I can convert these thirty-seven men to the faith of Jesus 
Christ, it is not worth my time though I should never he fetched off the 
island again ? nay, is it not infinitely of more worth to save so many souls 
than my lifis is, or the life of twenty more of the same profession ? Yes, 
Sir," says he, '' I would give Christ and the blessed Virgin thanks all my 
days, if I could be made tbe least happy instrument of saving the souls of 
those poor men, though I were never to set my foot off this island, or see 
my native country any more. But since you will honour me with nut- 
ting me into this work, for which I will pray for yon all the days of ray 
life, I have one humble petition to you besides." — '' What is thai ?" said 
I.— Why," says he, "it is, that you will leave your man Friday with me 
to be my interpreter to them, and to assist me ; for without some help I 
cannot speak to them, or they to me. 

I was sensibly touched at his requesting Friday, because I could no 
think of parting with him, and that for many reasons : he had been the 
companion of my travels; he was not only faithful to me, but sincere- 
ly afliectionate to the last degree ; and I had resolved to do something 
considerable for him if he outlived me, as it was probable he would. 
Then I knew that as I had bred Friday up to be a Protestant, it would 
qoile confbund him to bring him to embrace another profession ; and he 
would never, while his eyes were open, believe that his old master was a 
heretic, and would be damned ; and this might, in the end, ruin the poor 
fellow'd principles, and so turn him back again to his first idolalry. How- 
ever, a sudden thought relieved me in this strait, and it vvas ibis : I told 
him I could not say that I was willing to part wilh Friday on any account 
Whatever, thongh a work that to him was of more value than his life, 
ought td be to me of much more value than the keeping or parting with a 
servant. But, on the other hand, I was persuaded that Friday would by 
no means agree to part with me ; and I could not force him to it without 
bis consent, without manifest injustice; because I had promised I would 
never put him away, and he had promised and engaged to me that he 
would never leave me, nnless I put him away. 

He seemed very much concerned at it, for he had no rational access to 
these poor people, seeing he did not understand one word of their lan- 
guage, nor they one word of his. To remove this difficulty, I told him 
FiMajf'^ father had learned Spanish, which I found he also understood, 



252 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

and he should serve him as an mterpreter. So he was mach better sa- 
tisfied, and nothing could persuade him but he would stay and endeavour 
to convert them; but Providence gave another very happy turn to all 
Uiis« 

I come back now to the first part of his objections. When we came to 
the Englishmen, I sent for them all logelher, and afler some account given 
them of what I had done for them, viz. what necessary things I had 
provided for them, and how they were distributed, which they were very 
sensible of, and very thankful for, I began to talk to them of the scanda- 
lous life they led, and gave them a full account of the notice the clergy- 
man had taken of it ; and arguing how unchristian and irreligious a life it 
was, I first asked them if they were married men or bachelors? They 
soon explained their conditions to me, and showed that two of them were 
widowers, and the other three were single men, or bachelors. I asked 
them with what conscience they could take these women, and lie with 
them as they bad done, call them their wives, and have so many children 
by them, and not be lawfully married to them? 

They all gave me the answer I expected, viz. that there was nobody to 
marry them ; that they agreed before the governor to keep them as their 
wives, and to maintain them and own them as their wives ; and they 
thought, as things stood with them, they were as legally married as if 
they had been married by a parson, and with all the formalities in the 
world. 

I told them that no doubt they were married in the sight of God, and 
were bound in conscience to keep them as their wives; but that the laws 
of men being otherwise, they might desert the poor women and children 
hereafter ; and that their wives, being poor desolate women, friendless 
and moneyless, would have no way to help themselves : I therefore told 
them that, unless I was assured of their honest intent, I could do notliing 
for them, but would take care that what I did should be for the women 
and children without them; and that, unless they would give me some 
assurances that they would marry the women, I could not think it was 
convenient they should continue together as man and wife ; for that it 
was both scandalous to men and offensive to God, who they could not 
think would bless them if they went on thus. 

All this went on as I expected : and they told me, especially Will At- 
kins, who now seemed to speak for the rest, that they loved their wives 
as well as if they had been born in their own native coimtry, and would 
not leave them upon any account whatever ; and they did verily believe 
their wives were as virtuous and as modest, and did, to the utmost of 
their skill, as much for them and for their children, as any women could 
possibly do ; and they would not part with them on any account : and 
Will Atkins for his own particular, added, that if any man would take 
him away, and offer to carry him home to England, and make him cap- 
tain of the best man of war in the navy, he would not go with him, if 
he might not carry his wife and children with him; and if there was a 
clergyman in the ship, he would be married to her now with all his 
heart. 

This was just as I would have it: the priest was not with me at that 
moment, but was not far off : so, to try him further, I told him I )iad 



OF ROBINSON CAUSOE. 235 

a clergyman ^ith me, and, if he was sincere, I would have liim married 
next morning, and bade him consider of it, and talk with the rest. He 
said, as for himself, he need not consider of it at all, for be was very ready 
to do it, and was glad I had a minister with me, and he believed they 
would be all willing also. I then told him that my friend, the minister, 
was a Frenchman, and could not speak English, but I would act the clerk 
between them. He never so much as asked me whether he was a Papist 
or Protestant, which was indeed what I was afraid of; so we parted; I 
went back to my clergyman, and Will Atkins went in to talk with his 
companions. I desired the French gentleman not to say any thing to 
them till the busmess was thorough ripe ; and I told him what answer the 
men had given me. 

Before I went from their quarter, they all came to me, and told me 
they had been considering what I had said ; that they were glad to hear 
I had a clergyman in my company, and they were very willing to give 
me the satisfaction I desired, and to be formally married as soon as I 
pleased ; for they were far from desiring to part with their wives, and 
that they meant nothing but what was very honest when they chose them. 
So I appointed them to meet me the next morning; and, in the mean 
time, they should let their wives know the meaning of the marriage law; 
and that it was not only to prevent any scandal, but also to oblige them 
that they should not forsake them, whatever might happen. 

The women were easily made sensible of the meaning of the thing, 
and were very well satisfied with it ; as indeed they had reason to be : so 
they failed not to attend all together at my apartment next morning, 
where I brought out my clergyman ; and though he had not on a minis- 
ter's gown, after the manner of England, or the habit of a priest, after 
the manner of France, yet having a black vest, something like a cassock, 
with a sash round it, he did not look very unlike a minister ; and as for 
his language, I was his interpreter. But the seriousness of his behaviour 
to them, and the scruples he made of marrying the women, because they 
were not baptized and professed Christians, gave them an exceeding re- 
verence for his person; and there was no need, after that, to inquire 
whether he was a clergyman or not. Indeed, I was afraid, his scruples 
would have been carried so far as that he would not have married them 
at all ; nay, notwithstanding all I was able to say to him, he resisted me, 
though modestly, yet very steadily : and at last refused absolutely to 
luarry them, unless he had first talked with the men and the women 
too; and though at first I was a little backward to it, yet at last I agreed 
to it with a good will, perceiving the sincerity of his design. 

When he came to them, he let them know that I had acquainted bun 
v^'ith their circumstances, and with the present design; that he was very 
willing to perform that part of his function, and marry them, as I had de- 
sired ; but that before he could do it, he must take the liberty to talk with 
them. He told tiiem, that ui the sight of all indifferent men, and in the 
sense of the laws of society, they had lived all this while in open fornica- 
tion ; and that it was true, that nothing but the consenting to marry, or 
effectually separating them from one another, could now put an end to 
it; but there was a difficulty in it too, with respect to the laws of Chris- 
tian matrimony, which he was not fully satisfied about, viz. that of mar- 



fU LIFE AllD ADVENTDEfiS 

r/mg one that is a professed Gbristiaii to a savage, and idolater, and a 
heathen, one that is not baptized; and yet that he did not see that there 
was time left to endeavour to persuade the women to he baptized, or to 
^fess the name of Christ, whom they had, he doubted, heard nothing 
of, and without which they could not be baptized. He told them he 
doubted they were but indifferent Christians themselves ; that they had 
iNit little knowledge of God or of his ways, and therefore he could not 
etpect tiiat they had said much to their wives on that head yet; but that 
anless they would promise him to use their endeavours with their wives 
to persuade Uiem to become Christians, and would, as well as tbey could, 
instruct them in the knowledge and belief of God that made them, and to 
worship Jesus Christ that redeemed them, he could not marry them j for 
he would have no hand in joining Christians with savages; nor was it 
Mmsistent with the prmciples of the Christian religion, and was indeed, 
Vipressly forbidden in God's law. 

They heard all this very attentively, and I delivered it very faithfully 
to them from his mouth, as near his own words as I could ; only some- 
times adding something of my own, to convince them how just h was, and 
liow I was of his mind : and I always very faithfully distinguished bet wees 
What I said from myself, and what were the clergyman's words. They 
told me it was very true what the gentleman said, that they were very in- 
different Christians tliemselves, and that they had never talked to thdir 
wives about religion. ^'Lord, Sir," says Will Atkins, "how should we 
teach them religion ? why, we know nothing ourselves ; and besides, 
Sh*," said he, '^ should we talk to them of God and Jesus Christ, and hear 
Ten and hell, it would make them laugh at us, and sisk us what we be* 
Ueve ourselves ? And if we should tell them that we believe all the things 
We speak of to them, such as of good people going to heaven, and wicked 
people to the devil, tbey would ask us where we intend to go ourselves, 
that believe all this, and are such wicked fellows as we mdeed are ! Why, 
Sir, His enough to givQ them a surfeit of religion at first hearing; follLS 
must have some religion themselves before they pretend to teach other 
people." " Will Atkins," said I to him, " though lam afraid that what 
jfon say has too much truth in it, yet can you not tell your wife she is in 
the wrong ; that there is a God, and a religion better than her own ; that 
her gods are idols ; that they can neither bear not speak; that there is a 
great Being that made all things, and that can destroy all that he has 
made; that he rewards the good and punishes the bad ; and that we are 
to be judged by him at last for all we do here ? You are not so ignorant, 
but even nature itself will teach you that all this is true ; and I am satis- 
fied you know it all to be true, and believe it yourself.*' — " That is true. 
Sir," said Atkins; ^' but with what face can I say any thing to my wife 
of all this, when she will tell me immediately it cannot be true?" — "Not 
true!" said I : •* what do you mean by that?"— ** Why, Sir," said he, 
*' she will tell me it cannot be true that this God I shall tell her of can 
he just, or can punish or reward, since I am not punished and sent to the 
devil, that have been such a wicked creature as she knows I haye been, 
even to her, and to every body else ; and that I should be suffered to live, 
that have been always acting so contrary to what I must tell her is good, 
and to what I oo^ht to have done."-i-^*Why truly, Atkins,'' said I, "I m 




OF BOBINSON GAUSO£. ttS 

afraid tboa speakest too much truth ; " and with that I infoniied the cler- 
gyman of what Atkins had said, for he was impatient to know. '^ O/' 
said the priest, * ' tell him there is one thing will make him the best minis- 
ter in the world to his wife, and that is, repentance ; for none teach re- 
pentance like true penitents. He wants nothing bat to repent, and then 
he will be so much the better qualiRed to instruct his wife : he will then 
be able to tell her that there is not only a God, and that he is the just re- 
warder of good and evil, but that he is a merciful Being, and with infi- 
nite goodness and long-suffering forbears to punish those that offend ; 
waiting to be gracious, and willing not the death of a sinner, but rather 
that he should return and live : that oftentimes he suffers wicked men to 

So a long time, and even reserves damnation to the general day of retri* 
ution ; that it is a clear evidence of God and of a future state, that 
righteous men receive not their reward, or wicked men their punishment, 
till they come into anotlier world ; and this will lead him to teach his 
wife the doctrine of the resurrection and of the last judgment. Let him 
but repent for himself, he will be an excellent preacher of repentance to 
his wife." 

I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very serious all the wyie^ «m1 
who, we could easily perceive, was more than ordinarily affected with 
it : when bemg eager, and hardly suffering me to make at end-**' I know 
all this, master," says he, ^' and a great deal more ; but I have not the 
impudence to talk thus to my wife, when God and my conscience know, 
and my wife will be an undeniable evidence against me, that I have lived 
as if I had never heard of a God or future state, or anything about it ; 
and to talk of my repenting, alas ! (and with that he fetched a deep 
sigh, and I could see that the tears stood in his eyes), 'tis past all that 
with me."— **Past it, Atkins ?" said I; ** what dost then mean by that? " 
-^'^ I know well enough what I mean," says he $ ''I know well enongli 
what I mean," says he ; '* I mean 'tis too late, and that is too trUe." 

I told the clergyman, word for word, what he said : the poor zealous 
priest, — I must call him so, for, be his opinion wliat it will, he had cer- 
tainly a most singular affection for tlie good of other men's souls, and it 
would be hard to think he had not the like for his own, — I say, this af- 
fectionate ipan could not refrain from tears; but recovering himself, said 
tome, ^'Asdc him but one question ; Is be easy that it is too late; or is be 
troiabled, and wisiies it were not so? " I put the question fairly to At- 
kins; and lie answered, with a gi^at deal of passion, *' How could any 
man be easy in a condition that must certainly end in eternal destruction? 
that he was far from being easy ; but that, on the contrary, he believed 
it would, one time or other, ruin him." — ''What do you mean by that?" 
said I. " Why," he said, "he believed he should one time or other e«t 
his throat, to put an end to tlie terror of it." 

The clergyman shook his head, with great concern in his face, when 
I told hun all this; but turning quick to me upon it, says, "If that be 
bis case, we may assure him it is not too late ; Christ will give him re- 
pentanoe. But pray," says he, " explain this to him ; that as no man is 
saved but by Christ, and the merit of his passion procuring divine merey 
for him, how can it be too late for any man to receive mercy? Does he 
tbii^ be is able to sin beyond the ppwer or reacb of divine mefeir ? 



IM Life and ADVENruKte 

Pray tell him, there may be a time when provoked mercy will no longer 
strive, and whea God may refuse to hear, but lliat it is never too late for 
men to ask mercy ; and we, that are Christ's servants, are commanded 
to preach mercy at all times, in the name of Jesus Christ, to all those 
that sincerely repent ; so that it is never too late to repent." 

I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great earnestness ; bat it 
seemed as if he turned off the discourse to the. rest, for he said to me, he 
woald go and have some talk with his wife; so he went out a while, and 
we talked to the rest. I perceived they were all stupidly ignorant as to 
matters of religion, as much as I was when I went rambling away from 
my father ; and yet there were none of them backward to hear what had 
been said; and all of them seriously promised that they would talk with 
their wives about it, and do their endeavours to persuade them to turn 
Christians. 

The clergyman smiled upon me when I reported what answer they 
gave, but said nothing a good while ; but at last shaking his bead, '^ We 
Uiat are Christ's servants," says he, ^^ can go no farther than to exhort 
and instruct ; and when men comply, submit to the reproof, and promise 
what we ask, 'tis all we can do; we are bound to accept their good words ; 
but, believe me. Sir," said he, ^' whatever you may have known of the 
life of that man you call Will Atkins, I believe he is the only sincere con- 
vert among them : I take that man to be a true a penitent: I will not de- 
spair of the rest ; but that man is apparently struck with the sense of his 
past life, and I doubt not, when he comes to talk of religion to his wife, 
he will talk himself effectually into it; for attempting to teach others is 
sometimes the best way of teaching ourselves. I know a man, who, 
having nothing but a sunmiary notion of religion himself, and being 
wicked and profligate to the last degree in his life, made a thorough re- 
formation in himself by labouring to convert a Jew. If that poor Atkins 
begins but once to talk seriously of Jesus Christ to his wife, my life for it, 
he talks himself into a thorough convert, makes himself a penitent, and 
who knows what may follow?" 

Upon this discourse, however, and their promising, as above, to endea- 
vour to persuade their wives to embrace Christianity, he married the 
other two couple ; but will Atkins and his wife were not -et come in. 
After this, my clergyman waiting awhile, was carious to know where 
Atkins was gone; and turning to me, said, *^ I entreat you. Sir, let us 
walk out of your labyrinth here, and look : I dare say we shall find this 
poor man somewhere or other talking seriously to his wife, and teaching 
her already something of religion." I began to be of the same mind; so 
we went out together^ and I carried him a way which none knew bat 
myself, and where the trees were so very thick that it was not easy to see 
through the thicket of leaves, and. far harder to see in than to see oat; 
when, coming to the edge of the wood, I saw Atkins and his tawny wife 
silting under the shade of a bush, very eager in discourse : I stopped short 
till my clergyman came up to me, and then having showed him where 
they were, we stood and looked very steadily at them a good while. We 
observed him very earnest with her, pointing up to the sun, and to every 
quarter of the heavens, and then down to the earth, then out to the sea, 
then to himself, then to her, to the woods, to the trees. ^* Now," says 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 257 

the clergyman, ^^ yon see my words are made good, the man preaches to 
her; mark him now, he is telling her that our God has made him and her, 
and the heavens, the earth, the sea, the woods, the trees, etc."— ^^I be-> 
lieve he is," said I. Immediately we perceived Will Atkins start upon 
his feet, fall down on his knee^, and lift up both his hands. We supposed 
he said something, but we coakl not hear him ; it was loo far Ibr that. 
He did not continue kneelin;^ half a minute, but comes and sits down 
again by his wife, and talks to her again ; we perceived then the woman 
very attentive, but whether she said any thing to him we could not tell. 
While the poor fellow was upon his knees, I coold see the tears ran 
plentifully down my clergyman's cheeks, and I could hardly forbear my- 
self; but it was a great affliction to us lioth that we were not near enough 
to hear any thins^ that passed between them. Well, however, we could 
come no nearer for fear of disturbing them ; so we resolved to see an end 
of this piece of still conversation, and it spoke loud enough to us without 
the help of voice. He sat down again, as I have said, close by her, and 
talked again earnestly to her, and two or tliree times we could see him 
embrace her most passionately ; another time we saw liiro take out his 
handkerchief and wipe her eyes, and then kiss her again, with a kind of 
transport very unusual ; and after several of inese things, we saw him on 
a sudden jump up again, and lend her his hand to help her up, when inn 
mediately leading her by the hand a step or two, they both kneeled down 
together, and continued so about two minutes. 

My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud, ''St. Paul ! St. 
Paul! heboid he prayeth." I was afraid Atkins would hear him, there- 
fore I entreated him to withhold himself awhile, that we might see an 
end of the scene, which to me, I must confess, was the most affieetlng 
that ever I saw in my life. Well, he strove with himself for awhile, but 
was in such raptures, to think that the poor heathen woman was become 
a Christian, that he was not able to contain himself; he wept several 
times, then thro\^ng up his hands ai)d crosshig his breast, said over se- 
veral things ejaculatory, and by way of giving God thanks for so mira- 
culous a testimony of the success of our endeavours ; some he spoke 
softly, and I could not well hear others; some in Latin, some in French; 
then two or three times the tears would interrupt him, that he could not 
speak at all ; but I begged that he would contain himself, and let us more 
narrowly and fully observe what was before us, which he did for a time, 
the scene not bemg near ended yet; for after the poor man and his wife 
were risen again from' their knees, we observed he stood talking still ea- 
gerly to her, and we observed her motion, that she was greatly affected 
with what he said, by her frequently lifting up her hands, laying her 
hand to her breast, and such other postures as express the greatest se- 
riousness and attention : this ccmtinued about half a quarter of an hour, 
and then they walked away ; so we could see no more of them in that si-* 
tuaiion. I took this interval to talk with my clergyman; and first, I was 
glad to see the particulars we had both been witnesses to, that, though I 
was hard enough of belief in such cases, yet that 1 began to think it was 
all very sincere here, both in the man and his wife, however ignorant 
they might both be, and I hoped such a beginning w«»uld yet have a more 
happy end : '^ And who knows," said I; '^ but these two may lu tioie, t^y 



htn AND ABV£MtmiES 

ioilrafeklon and oxtitipte, work upon some of the others? ''•-^<< Some of 
theiti? " said he^ tomiog quick upon me : ^^ ay, tipon all of them : de- 
pend op^ it, if thoae two savages, for he has been but little better, as 
jmi relate it^ iboiild embrace Jesus Christ, they will nerer leave it till 
they work apon all the rest f for trae religion is naturally commtitiica^ 
Uye, and h^ that Is once made a Ciiristian will never leave a Pagan lie- 
hind him, if he am help it/' I owned it was a most Christian principle 
to think so, and r testimony of true zeal, as well as a generous heart, in 
bilii. ^^Buty my friend," said I, '^ will yon give me leave to start one 
difficulty here? I cannot tell how to object the least thing against that 
afllBetionate concern which you show for the turning of the poor people 
from their Paganism to the Christian religion : but how does this com/brt 
you, while these people are, in your account, out of the pale of the Ca^- 
Iholic church) Without which you believe there is no salvation? so thftt 

?ou esteem these but heretics, for other reasoi» as effectually lost as the 
agans themselves. 

To this he answered, with i^ondanee of candour thus : ** Sir, I am a 
Catholic of the Roman chordi, and a priest of the Order of St. Benedict, 
and I embrace all the principles of the Roman faith ; bat yet^ if you will 
Mieve me« and that I do not spe^k in compliment to yon, or In re*- 
spect te my circumstaaces and your civilities; I say, nevertheless, I do 
not look ttpoA you, who call yourselves reformed, without some cha- 
rity : I dare not say (though I know it is our opinion in general) that yon 
cannot be saved; I w^l by no means limit the mercy of Christ so far as 
to think that he cannot receive you into the bosom of liis church, in a 
manner to Ua unperceivable ; and I hope you have the same charity for 
Hi : I pray daily for yeur bdng all restored to Christ's church, by what 
soever method he, who is all-wise, is pleased to direct. In the mean 
tune^ sure you wiU aUow it consists with me, as a Roman, to distinguish 
^r between a Prdestant and a Pagan; between one that calls on Jesus Christ, 
though in a way wMoh I do not thiok is according to the true £ii(h, and 
a savage or a barbarian^ that knows no God, no Christ, no Redeemer ; 
and if you are not within the pale of the Catholic churchy we hope you 
are nearer being restored to it than those that know nothing of God or 
of his church t said i rejoice, therefore, when I see this poor man, who, 
yea aay, has beeft a profligate, and almost a murderer, kneel down and 
pray to J^ns Cfatist, as we suppose he did, though not folly enlight- 
ened ; believing that God, ih)m whom every such work proceeds, will 
aensitiy teuch his heart, and bring him to the forther knowledge of that 
Uruth In his own time : and if God sl^ll influence this poor man to con* 
vert and instruct the ignomnt savage, his wife, I can never believe that he 
shall he east aWay himself. And have I not reason then to rejoice the 
nearcJT any are brought to the knowledge of Clurist, though they may 
not be brought quite home into the bosom of the Catholic church jusi 
at thk thne when I may desire it^ leiiving it to the goodness of Christ to 
l^erfect his work In his own tune, and in his own way? Certainly, I 
wemkl rejoice if all the savages: in America were brought, like this poo^ 
WWDMU) to pray to God,^ though tliey were all to be Protestants at first, 
fCtier ^an they sfeMild continue Pagans or Heathens; firmly believing, 
VM heUMt had iMf^towed the first 11^ to tiiem would tether ittumiAaie 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 2 Sb 

dMm 1d^ k beam of fai$ heayenly grace, and bring them intd the pale 
of his church, when he should see good." , . ' 

I traa astonished at the sincerity and temper of this pious Papist, as. 
madi as I \^as oppressed by the power of his reasoning; and it presently' 
oeeurfed lo «iy thoughts, that if such a temper was universal, we might 
be all GathoRc Christians, whatever- church or particular profession we 
joined ill; ttuit a spirit of charity would soon work us all up into right' 
pirinciple^; and as he thought that the like charity would mak^ us all 
Catholics, so I told him I believed, had all the members of his church 
the like moderation, they would soon all be Protestants. — And (here we 
left that part ; for we never disputed at all. 

However, I talked to him another way, and taking him by the hand, .' 
" My IHend,'* says I, " I wish all the clergy of the Romish church were 
blessed with such moderation, and had an equal share of your charity. 
I am entirely of your opinion; but I must tell you, that if you should' 
preach such doctrine in Spain or Italy, they would put you into the In- 
cfaiaition."— '^ It may be so," said he ; ' • I know not what they would do 
ill Spain or Italy; but I will not say they would be the better Christians^ 
kft that severity; for I am sm% there U no heresy in abounding with 
cfharity." I 

Well, as Will Atkins and his wife were gone, otir business there was' 
dver, 90 we went back our own way; and when we came back, we found 
tifetem waiting to be called in : observing this, I asked my clergyman if we 
^hdiM discover to htm that we had seen him under the bush or not ; and 
ft was bts opinion \te shouh) not, btit that we should talk to him first, and 
iMr What he would say to hs ; so we called him in alone, nobody being 
ill the place but ourselves, and I began with him thus : 

" Will Atkins," said I, '* prithee what education had you ? What was 
yow father?'* 

fT. A. A better fnan than ever I shall be, Sir : my father was a cler- 
gynan. 

R. C. What education did he give you ? 

H^. A.'Bt would have tauglrt me well, Sir ; but 1 despised all educa-^ 
tion, instmciion, or (correction, like a beast as I was. 

R. C. It is true, Solomon says, ^' He that despises reproof is brutish.'^ ' 

H^. A. Ay, Sir, t was brutish Indeed, for I murdered my father : for 
God'ssake, Sir, talk no more about that; Sir, I murdered my poor father,, 

Pr. Ha ! a murderer ! 

HcJre the priest started (for I interpreted every word as he spoke) and 
looked pale : it seems he believed that Will had really killed his father. 

A. C. No, no, Sh*, I do not understand him so : Will Atkins, explain, 
yourself; you did not kill your father, did you, with your own bands? 

^. A. No, Sir, I did not cut his throat; but t cut the thread of all his^ 
cfiMnforts, and shortened his days : I broke his heart by the most ungrateful 
unnatural return, for the most tender and affectionate treatment that 
e^et father gave, or child could receive. 

It. C. Well, 1 did not a^ you about your father, to extort this confes- 
sltm : I (iray God give you repentance for it, and forgive that and all your 
other sins; but I asked you because I see that though you have not much , 
lamaBafj yet yoa are not so ignorant as 86M6 are m things that are good ; 



260 UF£ AIO) ABVJSMTURES 

that yon have known more of religion, a great deal, than yoa have prac-« 
tised*. 

IF. A, Thoagh yon, Sir, did not extort the confession that I make 
ahout my fjther, conscience does ; and whenever we come to look back 
upon our lives, the sins against our indulgent parents are certainly the 
first that touch us; tlie wounds they make lie deepest, and tUe weight Ihey 
leave will lie heaviest upon the mind, of all the sins we can commit. 

H. C, You talk too feelmgiy and sensibly for me, Atkms; I cannot 
hear it. 

fT. A. Yon bear it, master! I dare say you know nothing of it. 

R. C. Yes, Atkins; every shore, every bill, n«y, I may say every tree 
in this island, is witness to the anguish of my soul fur my ingratitude and 
had usage of a good, tender father; a father much like yours, by your 
description : and I murdered my father as well as you, Will Atkins; but 
I think, for all that, my repentance is short of yours too, by a great deal. 

I would have said more, if I couLl have restrained my passitiiis ; but I 
thought this poor man's repentance was so much sincei'cr ttian mine that 
I was going to leave off the discourse and retire; for I was surprised with 
what he had said, and thought that instead of my going about to teach 
and instruct him, the man was made a teacher and instructor to me in a 
most surprinng and unexpected manner. 

I laid all this before the young clergyman, who was greatly affected 
with it, and said to me, ^^Did I not say. Sir, that when this man was 
converted he would preach to us all ? I lell you. Sir, if this one man he 
made a tme penitent, here will be no need of me; he will make Chrisiians 
of all in the island." — But having a little composed myself, I renewed my 
discourse with Will Atkins. **' But, Will,'' said I, ** how comes the sense 
of this matter to touch yun just now?" 

ff^. A. Sir, you have set me about a work that has struck a dart 
through my very soul ; I have been talking alKUit God and religion to my 
wife, in order, as you directed me, to make a Christian of her, and she 
has preached such a sermon to me as I shall never forget uhiie I live. 

R, C. No, no, it is not your wife has preached to you; bat when yon 
were moving religious arguments to her, conscience has flung them back 
npon yon. 

/f^. A. Ay, Sir, with such force as is not to be resisted. 

B. C. Pray, Will, let us know what passed between yon and your 
wife; for I know something of it already. 

JF^. A, Sii t it is impossible to give you a full account of it ; I am too 
fill] to hold it, and yet have no tongue to express it ; but let her have said 
what she will, and though I cannot give you an account of it, this I can 
tell yon, that I liave resolved to amend and i eform my life. 

A. C. But tell us some of it: how did you begin, Will? For this has 
been an extraordinary rase, that is certain. She has preached a sermon, 
indeed, if sliehas wrought thisutK>n you. 

H^. A> Why, I first told her the nature of onr laws ahout marri;ige, 
and what the reasons were that men and women were obliged tn enter 
into snch compacts, as it was neither in the power of one nor other to 
break; that otherwise, order and justice could not be maintained, and 
men would run from theur wives, and abandon then: children, mix con* 



OF HOmNSON CRUSOE. 261 

m 

fbsedfy vnih one another, and neither families be kept entire, not inheri- 
tances be settled by hgal descent. 

A. C. You laik like a civilian. Will. Coald you make her understand 
what you meant by inheritance and families? They know no such things 
amon^ lite savages, but marry any how, without regard to relation, 
consanguinity, or family; brother and sister, nay, as I liaye l)een told, 
evrn the father and the daughter, and the son and the mother* 

fF', A, I believe, Sir, you are misinformed, and my wife assures roe of 
the contrary, and that ihey abhor it; iierhaps, for any farther relations, 
they may not be so exact as we are; but she tells me they never touch 
one another in the near relationship yon speak of. 

A. C Well, wh'it did she say to what you told her? 

f^. A. She said she liked it very well, and it was much better than in 
her country. 

B. C. But did you Ml her what marriage was? 

M'. A. Aj^ ay, there began our dialogue. I asked her if she would be 
married to me our way. She asked me what way that was. I told her 
marria^^^e was appointed by God ; and here we had a strange talk toge* 
ther, indeed, as ever man and wife had, I believe. 

iV. 0. This dialogue between Will Atkins and his wife I took down in 
writintr, just after he liad u>ld it me, whirh was as follows : 

f^ife. Appointed by your Gud ! Why, have you a God in yonr country ? 

^. A. Yes, my dear, God is in every cimnlry. 

ff'ife, No your God in my country ; my country have the great old Be- 
naniuckee God. 

/^. A, Guild, I am very unfit to show yon who God is; God Is in 
heaven, and made the heaven and the earth, the sea, and all that in 
tfaeni is. 

f^ife. No makee de earth; no yon God makee all earth; no makee my 
country. 

Will Atkins laughed a little at her expression of God not making her 
country. 

ff^ife. No laugh ; why laugh me ? This nothing to laugh. 

He was justly reproved by his wife, for she was more serious than he 
at first. 

^. A. That's true, indeed; I will not laugh any more, my dear. 

ff^ife. Why, vou say you God makee all ? 

ff^. A. Yes, child, our God make the whole world, and yon, and me, 
and all things ; for lie is the only true God, and there is no God but hlm| 
he livt^s Tor ever in heaven. 

ff^ife. Wliy you no tell me long ago ? 

f^. A. That's tine indeed ; hut Ihave been a wicked wretch, and have 
not only Forgotten to acquaint thee with any thing before, but have lived 
witliout God hi the world myself. 

ff^ife. Wliat, have you a great God in your country, you no know him ? 
No say O to liini ? ^o do good thing for him ? That no possible. 

H^. A. It is true; tliouj^h, for all that, we Uve as if there was no God 
in heaven, or that he had no power on earth. 

ff^ife. But why God let you do so ? Why he no makee yon good live ? 

J^. A. It is all our own fanlt. 



Wife. Bu|; yon say me he 18 great, nmcb grea^ Imve ini9i4i gii^tffiv^ 
can makee kill when he will, why he no makee kiU when you no servf 
him ? No say O to ))im, no be good mans. 

W. A. That is trne, he might strike me dead ; and I ought to ^xpeet k^ 
for I have been a wicked wretch, tliat is trae; but God is merdrod and 
floes not deal with us as we deserve. 
' Wife. But then you do not tell God thankee for that too ? 
. W, 4* No, indeed, I have not thanked God for his mercy, any nore 
than I have feared God for his power. 

Wife, Then you God uq God; me no think believe hfi be socb one, 
^eat much power strong : no n^akee kill you, though you mi^ke him ffiodi 
angry. 

W. 4. What, will my wicked life binder you from believing in G^ ? 
What a dreadful creature am I ! and what sad truth is it, that the ^rrl^ 
lives of Christians hinder the conversion of h^thens ! 

Wife. How me think you liave great much God up tber^ (slie points 
|]p to heaven), and yet no do well, no do good thing ? Can b^ tall ? SUur# 
he no tell what you do? 

W. A. Yes, yes, he knows and sees all things; he hears ni i^eak, mm 
;0rhat we do^ knows what we think, though we do not speak. 

Wife. What ! he no hear you curse, swear, speak de great damn 7 

W. A. Yes, yes, he hears it alL 

Wife. Where be then the much great power strong ? 

H^. A. He is merciful, that is all we can say for it ; and ^^ prQVfl0 him 
to be the true God ; he is God, and not man, and therefore w# ^9^ pot 
consumed.. 

Here Will Atkins told us he was struck with horror, U) tl^filc bow kit 
could tell his wife so clearly that God sees, and hears, and knows Qm n^ 
^ret thoughts of the hpart, and ajl that we do, and yet that be htd d«jr«4 to 
do all the vile things he had done. 
. IFtfe. Merciful.' What you call that! 

If^. il. He is our father and maker, and he pities and spares as. 

Wife. So then he never makee kill, never angry when yoi; do wicked ; 
)hep be w good biipself, or no great able. 

W, A. Yes, yes, ray dear, he is infinitely good and infinitely greatt ^^ 
able tQuuni^h tpo; and sometimes, to show his justice and vengeanei^, he 
lets fly his anger to destroy sumers and make examples; mapy are Pti^ off 
in theijr sins. 

; Wife- But njp makee Mil you yet ; then he tell yon, may be, that be pp 
makee you kill ; so you makee de bargain with him, you do bad thingi he 
no be angry at you when he be angry at oiher mans. 

W A. Np, indeed ; my sjns are all presumptions upon hj^ goodness ; 
and he \$?ouId be infinitely just if he destroyed me, as he has done oth^ 
'men. 

Wife. Well, and yet no kill, no makee you dead ; what you say to him 
for that? You no tell him thankee for all that too? 
, W. A. i am an unthankful, ungrateful dog, that is true. 
' Wife. Why he no makee you much good better? you say he makee yoa, 
^ JffT. A. He made me, as he made all the world : it is I have deformed 
myself and abased his goodness, and made myself an ahon^able wxelch. 



OF 1U>BWS0N €EUSe«. 

. ^tfe, I wishyoumakeeGodkiiowiQe;Iiiomk#ehim«i^ 

do bad wicked thing. 

Here Will Atkiqs said his heart sqnk within MfOi to b^vr n peor un- 
taught creature desire to he taught to know God, and be foeb a wicked 
wretch that he could not say one word to her about God, but wha) the 
reproach of his own carriage would make most irr^tionKl to her to be-* 
liev^ ; nay, that already she had told him that she could not beUe?§ in 
God, because he, that was so wicHedr F4S Wi dostroy^, 

lfr,A. My dear, you mean, you wish I could teach yoq to ki|ow G«dy 
not God to know yoo i for he know^ yop already y <uid cvenr thought in 

your heart. 

ff^ife. Why then he know what J say to you i)ow i be know m^ wi>b 
to know him ; how shall me know who make^ me ? 

ff^. A. Poor creature, he must teach thee, I cannot teach thee; I will 
pray to him to teach thee to ^iiqw him» and forgive JP^^ that <ipn unwprttiy 
to teach thee. 

The poor fellow was in such an Pgony at her desiring him to make her 
know God and her wishing to know him, that be said lie fell down on bU 
knees Cefore her, and prayed to God to enlighten ber mind with the saving 
knowledge of Jesus Christ, and to pardon his sins, and accept of bis being 
the unworthy instrument of instructing her in the principles pf religion ; 
after which he sat down by her again, and their dialogue went on-^-rXhis 
was the time wben we saw him kneel down, and hold up his hapds. 

Jf^ife. What yoo put down the knee for ? What yon hold vp the ban^ 
fbr ? What you say? Who you speak to ? What is all that? 

J^. A, My dear, I how my knees in token of niiy submission to hi9 tlial 
made me ; I said O to him, as you call it, a^d as your old num ^ to tb^ 
idol Benamuckee; that is, I prayed to him. 

fTife. What you say O to him for ? 

IT. A. I prayed to him to open your eyes andypnr UQd^4(an(liiWf U^t 
you may know him, and be accepted by bim. 

^ife. Can he do that too ? 

H^. A, Yes, he can ; he can do all things. 

Jf^ife. But now he h^ar what you say ? 

^. A. Yes ; he has bid us pray to him, and promised tp hear u^f 

ff^ife. Bid you pray ? When he bid you ? How \ie bid you ? Wbat, you 
hear him speak ? 

fF. A. No, we do not hear himsp^; but he b^s revealed blf>^f 
p^any ways to us. 

Here he was at a great loss to make her understand th|t Gpd b^f f^ 
Tcaled himself to us by his word, and what this word was | bnt $U Ifi^t bf 
told it her thus : 

W. A. God has spoken to some good men in former days, ef^n from 
heaven, by plain words ; and God has inspired good men by bis Spirit; 
and they have written all his laws down in a book. 

Wife. JVIe no understand that ; where is book ? 

W. A. Alas ! my poor creature, I have not this book i but I ho]^ 1 4)iU 
one lime or other gel it for you, and help you to read il. 

Here he embraced her with great affection^ but witb ine:^pre^hte gfilyf 
that he had not a Bible. 



161 Ufe and adventures 

Wife* Bat bow yoa makee me know that God teachee them to write 
that book? 

IF. il. By the same rale that vte know him to be God. 

Wife. What rule ? What way yoa know him ? 

W. A, Because he teaches and commands nothing hat what is good, 
righteous, and holy, and tends to make us perfectly good, as well as per- 
fectly happy ; and because he forbids, and commands us to aToid, all tliat 
is wicked, that is evil in its conseqaence. 

Wife. That me woald understand, that me fain see : if he teachee all $rood 
thing, he makee all good Uiing, he give all thing, he hear me when I say 
O to him, as you do just now ; he makee me gooil, if I wish to be good; 
he spare me, no makee kill me, when I no be good : all this you say he 
do, yet he be great God : me take, think, believe liim to be great God; 
me say O to him with you, my dear. 

Here the poor man could forbear no longer, but raised her up, made 
her kneel by him, and he prayed to God aloud to instruct her in the know- 
ledge of himself, by his Spirit; and that by some good providence, if pos- 
sible, she might some time or other come to have a Bible, that she might 
read Ihe word of God, and be taught by it to know him. — This was the 
time that we saw him lift her up by the hand, and saw him kneel dowa 
by her, as above. 

They had several other discourses, it seems, after this, too long to be 
set down here ; and particularly she made him promise that since he con- 
fessed his own life had been a wicked, altominable coiuse of provocations 
against God, that he would reform it, and not make God angry any more; 
lest he should make him dt^ad, as she called it, and then she would be left 
alone, and never be taught to know this God better; and lest he should 
be miserable, as he had told her wicked men would be, after death. 

This was a strange account, and very affecting to us both, but parlica- 
larly to the young clergyman ; he was indeed wonderfully surprised with 
it, but under the greatest affliction imaginable that he could not talk to 
her, that he could not speak English, to make her understand him ; and 
as she spoke hut very broken English, he could not understand her; how- 
ever, he turned himself fo me, and told me that he believed that there 
must be more to do with this woman than to marry her. I did not un- 
derstand him at first, but at length he explained himself, viz. that she 
ought to be baptized. I agreed with him in that part readily, and was 
for going al)OUt it presently. "No, no; hold Sir," said he; "though I 
would have her be baptized by all means, yet I must observe that Will 
Atkins, her husband, has indeed brought her, in a wonderful manner, to 
be willing to embrace a religious life, and has given her just ideas of the 
being of a God; of his power, justice, and mercy : yet I desire to know 
of him if he has said any thing to her of Jesus Christ, and of the salva- 
tion of sinners; of the nature of faith in him, and redemption by him; 
of the Holy Spirit, the resurrection, the last judgment, and a future state. 
I called Will Atkins again, and asked him ; but the poor fellow fell im- 
mediately into tears, and told us he had said something to her of all those 
things, but that he was himself so wicked a creature, and his own con- 
science so reproached him witli his horrid, ungodly life, that he trembled 
at the apprehension that her knowledge of him should leaaen the atteii- 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. MS 

tion she should give to those things, and make her rather contemn religion 
than receive it; but he was assured, lie said, tliat her mind was so dis- 
posed to receive dae impressions of all ihnse things, and tliat if I would 
but discourse with her, she would make it appear to my satisfaction that 
my labour would not be lost upon her. 

Accordingly, I called her in, and placing myself as interpreter between 
my religions priest and the woman, I em rented him to begin with her; 
but sure such a sermon was never preached hy a popish priest in these 
latter a^'cs of the world; and, as I told him, I thought he had all the zeal^ 
all the knowledge, all the sincerity of a Christian, without the error of a 
Roman Catholic; and that I took him to be such a cler^^man as the Ro- 
tnan bishops were, before the church of Rome assumed spiritual sove- 
reignty over the consciences of men. In a wont, he brought the poor 
"woman to embrace the knowledge of Christ, and of redeniplion by him 
not with wonder and astonishment only, as she did the first notions of a 
God, but with joy and faith ; witli an affection, and a surprising degree 
of understanding, scarce to be imagined, much less to be expressed; and, 
at her own request, she was baptized. 

When he was preparing to Impiize her, I entreated him that he would 
perform that office with some caution, that the man might not perceive 
be was of the Roman church, if possible, because of other ill conse- 
quences which mi^ht attend a difference among us in that very reiijiion 
which we were instructing the other in. He told me that as he had no 
consecrated chapel, nor proper thin<;s for the office, I .should see he would 
do it in a manner that I should not know by it thnt he was a Roman Ca- 
tholic myself, if I had not known it before ; and so he did ; for saying only 
some words over to himself in Latin, which I cou!d not understand, he 
poured a whole dishful of water upon the woman's head, pronouncing 
in French very loud, ''Mnry (which was the nnme her hnsl)and desired 
me to give her, for I was her godfather), I baptize thee in the name of 
the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost; " so that none could 
know anything by it what relig.on he was of. He gave the lienedirtion 
afterwards in Latin, hut either Will Atkins did not know but it was French, 
or else did not take notice of it at that time. 

As soon as this was over, we married them; and after the^'marriage 
was over, he turned to Will Atkins, and in a very aff' ciionate manner 
exhorted him, not only lo persevere in that good disposition he was in, 
but to support the convictions that w^ere upon him by a resolution to re- 
form his life ; told him it whs in vain to say he repented if he did not for- 
sake his crimes : represented to him how God had hononreit him with 
being the instrument of bringing his wife to the knowledge of the Christian 
religion, and that he should be careful he did not dishonour the grace of 
God ; and that if he did, he would see the heathen a better Christian than 
himself; the savage converted, and the instrument cast away. He said a 
great many good things to them both; and then recommending them to 
God's goodness, gave them the benediction a^nin, I repealing every thing to 
them in Englisli ; and thus ended the ceremony. I think it was the most 
pleasant and agreeable day to me that ever I passed in my whole life. 

But my clergyman had not done yet; his thoughts hung continually 
upon the conversion of the thirty-seven savages, and f^in he would have 



9ftt LUTE AND ABVEIfTDRES 

$Uwed ppon the island to hare undertaken It ; but I convinced him, firsti 
that his undertaking was impracticable in itself; and, secondly, tbatperhapv 
i woi^ld put it into a way of being done in his absence to his satisfaction^ 
of which by and by. 

Having thus brought the affairs of the island to a narrow compass, I 
w«$ preparing to go on board the ship, when the young man I had taken 
out of the famished ship's company came to me, and told me be under- 
istood I bad a clergyman with me, and that I had caused the Englishmen 
to be married to the savages ; that he had a match, too, which he desire^ 
fpjght be finished before I went, between two Christians, which he hoped 
would not be disagreeable to me. 

I knew this must be the young woman who was his mother's servanti 
for there was no other Christian woman on the island : so I began to per-; 
suade him not to do any thing of that kind rashly, or because he found 
himself in this solitary circumstance. I represented to him that he had 
some considerable substance in the world, and good friends, as I under^ 
stood by himself, and the maid also; that the maid was not only poor, and 
a servant, but was unequal to him, she being six or seven and twenty 
years old, and he not above seventeen or eighteen; that he might very 
probably, with my assistance, make a remove from this wilderness, and 
come into his own country again ; and that then it would be a thousand 
to one but he would repent his choice, and the dislike of that circumstance 
might be disadvantageous to both. J was going to say more, but he in- 
terrupted me, smiling, and told me, with a great deal of modesty, that | 
mistook in my guesses, that he had notlang of that kind in his thoughts; 
and he was very glad to hear that I had an intent of putting them in 4 
way to see their own country again ; and nothing should have put him 
upon staying there, but that the voyage I was going was so exceeding 
long and hazardous, and would carry him quite out of the reach of all hi« 
friends; that he bad nothing to desire of me, but that I would settle hini 
in some little property in the island where he was, give him a servant or 
two, and some few necessaries, and he would settle himself here like 4 
planter, waiting the good time when, if ever I returned to England, I would 
redeem them ; and hoped I would not be unmindful of him when I came to 
England : that be would give mesome letters to his friends in London, to let 
them know how good I had been to him, and in what part of the world^ 
and what circumstances I had left him in ; and he promised me that when- 
ever I redeemed him, the plantation, and all Uie improvements he had 
made upon it, let the value be what it would, should be wholly mine. 

His discourse was very prettily delivered, considering his youth, and 
was the more agreeable to me, because he told me positively the match 
was not for himself. I gave him all possible assurances that if I lived 
to come safe to England, I would deliver his letters, and do his business 
effectually; and that be might dt^pend I should never forget the circum- 
stances I had left him in; but still J was impatient to know who was the 
person to be married ; upon which he told me it was my Jack of all Trades 
and his maid Susan. I was most agreeably surprised when he named 
the match; for indeed I thought it very suitable. The character of that 
man I have given already; and as for the maid, she was a very honest, 
modest, sober, and religious young woman; had a very good ^hare of 



or nDiDisoN cnnsoE. 

Mue, imi agreetbte en^o^ in ber porsoD, spoke ver]r hiiidKMiiely aoi 
to the parpMe, tlways witit decency and good manners^ and neitber Uw 
liackward to speak whiai requisite, nor imperlinently forward when il 
was oo( her bttsiDess; very bandy and housewifely, and an eseaUeal loa- 
Dager; fit, indeed, to bave been governess to the wbole island, and sbt 
knew very well bow to behave ui every respect. 

The match being proposed in this manner, we married them the aanf» 
day; and as I was father at the altar, as I may say, and gave her away, 
ao I gave ber a portion ; for I appointed her and her husband a handsoma 
i^i^e qpace of ground kx theur plantation ; and, indeed, this maleh and the 
proposal the young gentleman made to give him a small property in the 
island, put me upon parceling it out amongst them, that tbcf mi§^ b4 
iiuarr^ afterwards about their akuation. 

This sharing out the land to them I left to Will AUuns, who waaaow 
g^wn a sober, grave, managing fellow, perfectly refdrmed, ezoeedingiy 
pious and rdigious, and, as for as I may be allowed to speak positively in 
Mich a case, I verily believe he was a true penitent. He divided things 
eo justly, and so much to every one's satisfaction, that they only desired 
0«e general writing under my hand for the wbole, which | canaed to be 
drawn up, and signed and sealed to them, setting oat tlie bounds and 
situation of evei7 man's plantation, and testifying that I gave them therehf 
aeverally a rig^t to the whole possession and inheritance of tlie respective 
plantations or forms, with tlieir improvements, to them and their heirs, 
reserving all the rest of the island as my own property, and a certain rent 
for every particular plantation after eleven years, if I, or any one ftrom 
lae, or in my name, came to demand it, producing an attestedcopy of the 
fifune writing. 

As to the government and laws among them, I told them I was net 
capable of giving them better rules than they were able to give themselves; 
imly I made them promise me to live in love and good neighbourhood 
with one another; and so I prepared to leave Ihem. 

One thing I must not omit, and that is, that being now settled in a 
iund of commonwealth among themselves, and having much business in 
liand, it was but odd to have seven and thirty Indians live in a nook of 
ahe island, independent and, indeed, unemployed; for, excepting the 
pneriding themselves food, which they had difficulty enough to do, some- 
times they had no manner of business or property to manage. I proposed, 
therefore, to the governor Spaniard, that he should go to them, with Fri- 
day's fother, and propose to them to remove, and either plant for them- 
eelves, or take than into their several fomilies as servants, to be main- 
alined for their labour, but without being absolute slaves ; for I would 
not admit them to make tiiem slaves by force, by any means; because 
they had their liberty given them by capitulation, as it were articles of 
aorrender which they ought not to break. 

Tbey most willingly embraced the proposal, and came all very eheer- 
Ihl along with him : so we allotted them land, and plantations, which 
three or four accepted of, but ali tiie rest chose to be employed as servants 
ia the several fomilies we had settled ; and thus my colony was in a 
manner settled as follows .- — The Spaniards possessed my original hd>i- 
jtatioQ, which was the capital city, and extended their plantations all along 



968 LIFE AND ABVENTURES 

the side of the brook, ^hich made the creek that I bare so often de- 
scribed, as fiir as my bower ; and as they increased their culture, it went 
always eastward. Tlie Eii^Hsli lived in the north-east part, where Will 
A I kins and his comrades began^ and came on southward and southwest, 
towards the back part of (he Spaniards ; and every plantation had a gteat 
aildiliun of land to take in, if they found occasion, so tlial they need not 
jostle one another for want of room. All the east end of the island was 
left uninhabited, that if any of the savages should come on shore there 
only for their usual customary barbarities, they might come and go ; if 
tliey disturiicd nolHxly, nobody would disturb them; and no doobt bat 
they were often ashore, and went away again ; for I never lieard that the 
planters were ever attacked or disturlied any more. 

Ii now came into my thoughts that I had hinted to my fiiend the cler<- 
gyman tliat the work of converting the savages might perhaps be set on 
foot in his al)sence to bis satisfaction, and told him that now I thought it 
was put in a fair way ; lor tlie savages being thus divided among the 
Christians, if iliey would but every one of them do their part uitb those 
whicli came under their hands, I hoped it might have a very good effect. 

He agreed presently in that, if tuey did their part. '^ But how," says 
he, ^^ sliall we obtain tliat of ihem?" I told bun we would call them all 
together, and leave it in charge with them, or go to them, one by one, 
which he thought best : so we divided it, he to speak to tlie Spaniards, 
who were all Papists, and I to the English, who were all Protestants; 
and we recommended it earnestly to them, and made them promise that 
tliey would never make any distinction of Papist or Protestant in their 
exhorting the savages to turn Christians, but leach Uiem the general know- 
ledge of the true God, and of their Saviour Jesus Christ ; and they like- 
wise piomised us that they would new iiave any differences or disputes 
one wiui another about religion. 

Wlieu I came to Will Atkms^s boose (I may call it so, for such a hoase^ 
or such a pi ce of basket-work, I believe, was not standing in the world 
agam), there 1 found the young woman 1 have mentioned above, and 
Wiil Alkms's wife, were become miimales; and this prudent, religious 
young woman, had perfected tlie work Will Atkins had begun; and 
though ii was not above four days after what I have related, yet the new- 
baptized savage woman was made such a Cliristian as I have seldom heard 
of in all my oiiservation or conversation in the world. 

It came next into my mind, in the morning before I went to them, 
that amongsi all the needful thinj^s I had to leave with them, 1 bad not 
left them a Bible, in which I showed myself less considenng for them 
than my good friend (he widow was for me, when she sent me the cargo 
of a hundred poumls from Lisbon, where she packed up three Bdiles and 
a Pra)er-book. However, the good woman's chanty had a greater ex- 
tent than ever she imagined, for they were reserved for the comfort and 
instruction of those that made much better use of them than i had done. 

I took one of the Bibles in my pocket, and when I came to VVdl Atkins's 
tent, or house, and found the young woman and Atkins's baptized wife 
had been discoursing of religion together, for Will Atkins told it me with 
a great deal of joy, I asked if they were together now, and he said yea; 
fo I went into the house, and he with me, and we found them together. 



OF KOBINSON GRIJSOE. 2611 

T^ earnest in cliscoorsp. '' O, Sir," says Will Atkins, '^ when God has 
sinners to reconcile lo himseir, and aliens to liring home, he never wants 
a messenger ; my wife has got a new instructor; I knew I yfa» as imworti.y 
as I was incapable of that work; thai young woman has been sent hither 
from heaven ; she is enoo;;h to convert a whole island of savages." The 
yonnir woman blushal, and rose up to go away, bat I desired her to sit 
still ; I told her she had a good work upon her hands, and I hoped God 
vrould bless her in it. 

We talked a little, and I did not perceive they had any book among 
them, though I did not ask ; but I put my hand into my pocket, and pulled 
oat my Bible : ^^ Here," says I lo Atkins, '' I have brought you an Assis- 
tant that perhaps you had not before." The man was so confounded 
that he was not able to speak for some time ; but, recovering himself, he 
takes it with both his hands, and turning to his wife, '^ Here, my dear," 
sa\s he, *' did not I tell you our God, though he lives above, could hear 
what we saiil ? Here's the lH)ok I prayed for when you and I kneeled 
down under the hush ; now God has hear^ us, and sent it." When he 
had said so, the man fell into such transports of passionate joy, that be- 
tween the joy of having it, and giving God thanks for it, the tears ran 
down his face like a child tliat was crying. 

The woman was surprised, and was like to have run Into a mistake tliat 
none of us wtre aware of, for she Grmly believed God liad sent the book 
upon her husband's petition. It is true, that providentially it was so, 
and might be taken so in a consequent sense; but I believe it would have 
been no difficult matter, at that time, to have persuaded the poor woman 
to have believed that an express messenger came from Heaven on purpose 
to bring that individual i>oi>k ; but it was too serious a matter to sotfer any 
deluiiiim to U«ke place ; so 1 turned lo the young woman, and told lier we 
did not desii*e to impose upon the new convert, in her first and more ig- 
norant miderstanding of things, and begged her to explain to her that 
God may be very properly sa.d to answer our petitions, when, in the 
course of his providence, such things are in a particular manner brought 
to pass as we petitioned for ; but we did not.exp^'Ct r/turns from lleavfn 
in a miraculous and particular maiuiei*, and it is our mercy tliat it is 
not so 

This the young woman did afterwards effectually, so that there was, I 
assure you, no priestcraft used here ; and 1 should have thought it one of 
the most unjustifiable hands in the world to have had it so. But the sur- 
prise of joy upon Will Atkins is really not to be expressed ; and there, we 
may he sure, was no delusion. Sure no man was ever more thankful in 
the world for any thing of ib kind than he was for the Bible; nor, I be- 
lieve, never any man was glad of a Bible from a better principle; and 
though he had been a most profligate creature, headstrong, furious, and 
dt'sperately u irked, yet this man is a standing rule to us all for the well 
instructing children, viz. thai parents should never give over to teach and 
instruct, nor ever despaur of the success of their endeavours, let the chil- 
dren be ever so refractory, or, to appearance, insensible of instruction ; 
for, if ever G(h1, in his providence, touches the conscience of such, i he 
foice of liieir education returns upon them, and the early instruction of 
parents is not lost, though it may have been many years laid asleep, hnt,. 



m tux AMD iDVKN'ruUIS 

wmHe time or cfbetf tbey may find the benefit of H. Tfans il was wi& 
this poor man; however ignorant he was of religion and Christian know- 
ledge, he foQDd he had some to do with now more ignorant than hknself, 
and that the least part of ihe instmction of his good father that now came 
to bis mind was of use to him. 

Among the rest H occurred to him, he said, how his fath^ used to ia* 
sbt so much on the inexpressible vahie of the Bible, the privilege and 
blessing of it to nations, families, and persons ; but he never entertained 
the least notion of the worth of it till now, when being to talk to heathens, 
savages, and barbarians, he wanted the help of the written ora^ for bir 
assktaiice. 

The yoong woman was glad of it also for the present oocaskm, thoo^ 
jAie had one, and so had the youth, on board our ship, among their goods, 
Which were not yet brought on shore. And now having said so many 
tbtngs of this young woman, I cannot omit telling one story more of Jier 
and mysdf, which has something in it very hiforming and remarkable. 

I have related to what extremity the poor young woman was reduced, 
how her mistress was starved to death, and died oti board that unhappy 
ship we met at sea, and how the whole ship's company was reduced to 
the last extremity. The gentlewoman and her son, and this maid, were 
first h»dly used, as to provisions, and at last totally neglected and starved ^ 
that is to say, brought to the last extremity of hunger ;^-One day, being 
diseonrsin^ with her on the extremities they suffered, I asked her if ^e 
ewAd describe, by VFhat she had felt, what it was to starve, and how it 
appeared ? She told me she beKeved she could, and she fold her tale very 
distiiictly, tfaos : 

^^ First, Sir," said she, ''we had for some days hreA exceeding hard, 
and suffered vary great hunger : but at last we were wlicdly without food 
of any knid, except sugar, and a little wine and water. The first day, 
afler I had received no food at all, I found myself, towards evening, first 
empty and sick irt the stomach, and nearer night mtich indined to yawn- 
ing and sleep. I laid down on a couch in the great cabin to sleep, and 
slept about ttoree hoars, and awaked a little refreshed, having takeu a 
glass of wine when I lay down : after being about three hours awake, it 
being about five o'clock in tiie morning, I found myself empty, and my 
slonaach sickish, and lay down again, but could not stee)p at all, being 
viery faint and ill ; and thus I continued all the second day, with a Strange 
variety, first hungry, then sick again, with retchings to vomit. Tlie se- 
cond night, being oMiged to go to bed again without any food, more than 
ft draagbt of fresh water, and being asleep, I dreamed I was at Barbadoes, 
and ttiat the market was- mightily stocked with provisions ; that I bought 
some lor my mistress, and went and dined very he^^tily. I thought my 
stomach was as full after this as it would have been afler a good dinner ; 
bat when I awakened, I was exceedhigly sunk in my spirits to find my- 
self in the atremity of famine. The last glass of wine we had I drank, 
and put sugar m it, because of its having some sptrit to supply noorish- 
ment; bat there being no substance in the stomach fbr the digestii^ of- 
fice to work upon, I found the only effect of the wine was, to raise dis- 
agreeable fumes from the stomach into the head ; and I lay, as they told 
a% stqpid and seneelesa^ asone dnmk; tor some timer TbolUM day. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 4Tf 

ih the morning, after a night of strange, confused, and inconsistent dreams, 
and ratlier dozing tlian sleeping, I awaked ravenoos and fdrious with 
hunger; and I question, had not my understanding returned and con- 
quered it, whether, if I had been a mother, and had had a little child with 
me, its life would have been safe or not. This lasted about three hours ; 
during which time I was twice raging mad as any creature in Bedlam, as 
my young master told me, and as he can now inform you. 

'^ In one of these fits of lunacy or distraction I fell down, and struck 
my &ce against the comer of a pallet-bed, in which my mistress lay, and, 
-with the blow, the blood gushed out of my nose ; and the cabin-boy bring- 
ing me fr little basin, I sat down and bled into it a great deal; and as the 
Idood came from me, I came to myself, and the violence of the flame or 
lever I was in abated, and so did the ravenous part of the hunger. Then 
I grew sick, and retched to vomit, but could not, for I had nothing in my 
stomach to bring up. After I had bled some time, I swooned, and they 
all believed I was dead ; but I came to myself soon after, and then had a 
most dreadful pain in my stomach, not to be described, not like the colic, 
but a gnawing eager pain for food ; and towards the night it went off, 
with a kind of earnest wishing or longing for food, something like, as I 
suppose, the longing of a woman with child. I took another draught of 
water, with sugar in it; but my stomach loathed the sugar, and brought 
H all up again : then I took a draught of water without sugar, and that 
stayed with me ; and I laid me down upon the bed, praying most heartily 
that it would please God to take me away ; and composing my mind in 
hopes of it, I slumbered awhile, and then waking, thought myself dying, 
being light with vapours from an empty stomach ; I recommended my 
80^1 then to God, and earnestly wished that somebody would throw me 
Into the sea. 

^' All this while my mistress lay by me, just, as I thought, expiring, but 
bore it with much more patience than I ; gave the last bit of bread she 
had left to her child, ray young master, who would not have taken it, hut 
^e obliged him to eat it; and I believe it saved his life. 

** Towards the morning I slept again ; and when I awoke, I fell into a 
violent passion of crying, and after that had a second fit of violent hunger ! 
I got up ravenous, and in a most dreadful condition : had my mistress 
been dead, as much as I loved her, I am certain I should have eaten a 
piece of her flesh with as much relish, and as unconcerned, as eveM did 
^t the flesh of any creature appointed for food ; and once or twice I was 
going to bite my own arm : at last I saw the basin in which was the 
Mood I had bled at my nose the day before ; I ran to it, and swallowed 
it with such haste, and such a greedy appetite, as if I wondered no- 
body had taken it befbre, and afraid it should be taken from me now. 
After it was down, though the thoughts of it filled me with horror, yet it 
checked the fit of hunger, and I took another draught of water, and was 
composed and refreshed for some hours after. This was the fourth day; 
and thus I held it till towards niglit; when, within the compass of three 
hours, I had all the several circumstances over again, one after another, 
viz. sick, sleepy, eagerly hungry, pain in the stomach, then ravenous 
agam ; then sick, then lunatic, then crying, then ravenous again, and so 
every quarter of an hour; and my strength wasted exceedingly: at sigfaC 



!»2 LIFE AM) AfitENTURES 

I laid me down, having no comfort but in the hope that I should die 
before morning. 

"^ All this night I had no sleep ; but the hunger was now turned into 
a disease ; and I had a terrible colic and griping, by wind, instead of 
food, having found its way into the lK)wels; and in this condition I lay 
till morning, when I whs surprised with the crib's and lamentations of my 
young master, who called out to me that his molher was dead; I lifted 
m} self up a litlle, for I had not strength to rise, but found she was not 
dead, though she was able to give very litlle signs of life. 

'^I had then such convulsions in my stomach, for want of some suste- 
nance, that I cannot describe; with such frequent throes and pangs of ap- 
petite, that noihihg but the tortures of lieath can imitate; and in this con- 
dition I was when I heard the seamen above cry out, ^ A sail ! a sail! ' and 
halloo and jump about as if lliey were distracted. 

^^ It was not able to get off from the bed, and my mistress much less ; 
and my young master was so sick that I thought he b:id been expiring; so 
we could not open the cabin door, or get any account what it was that 
occasioned such confusion ; nor had we any conversation w ith the ship's 
company for two days, they having told us that they had not a mouthful 
of any thing to eat in the ship ; and this they told us afterwards, they 
thought we bad been dead, ft was this dreadful condition we were in 
when yon were sent to save our lives ; and how you foimd us. Sir, yoa 
know as well as I, and lietter too." 

This was her own relation, and is such a distinct account of starving to 
death, as, i confess, I never met with, and was exceeding entertaining to 
me. I am the rather apt to believe it to be a true account, because the 
youth gave me an account of a good part of it ; though, I must o a n, not so 
distinct and so feeling as the maid ; and the rather, because it seems his 
mother fed him at the price of her own life ; but the poor maid, though 
her constitution being stronger than tliat of her mistress, who was ia 
years, and a weakly woman too, she might struggle harder with it; 1 say, 
tiie poor maid might he supposed to ftel the extremity something sooner 
than her mistress, who might be allowed to keep the last bit something 
longer than she parted with any to relieve the maid. No question, as 
the case is here related, if our ship, or some other, had not so providen- 
tially met them, a few days more would have ended all tbeir lives, unless 
tbey had prevented it by eating one another; and that even, as tlieir case 
stood, would have served them hut a little while, they being live hundred 
leagut s from any land, or any possibility of relief, other than in tlie mi- 
raculous manner it happened : but this is by the way; I return to my 
disposition of things among the peop:e. 

And, first, it is to be observed here, that for many reasons I did not 
think fit to let them know any thing of the sloop I had framed, and which 
I thought of setting up among them ; for I found, at least at my first 
coming, such seeds of division among them, that I saw plainly, had I set 
op the sloop, and left it among them, they would, upon every light dis- 
gust, have separated and gone away from one anotner, or perhaps have 
turned pirates, and so made the island a den of thieves, instead of a plan- 
tation of sober and religious people, as I intended it : nor dhl I leave tha 
two pieces of brass cannon that 1 had on board, or the two quarter-deck 



or ROBmsoN CKCSOETi m 

giiAs that mj nephew took extraordinary, for the same reaaon : I thoagfat 
it was enough to qualify tliem for a defensive war against any Ihat sliould 
invade theni, bat not to set them up for an offensive war, or to go abroad 
to attack others ; which, in the end, would only bring ruin and destmc- 
tion upon them; I reserved the sloop, therefore, and the guns, for their 
service another way, as I shall observe in its place. 

Having now done with the island, I left them all m good circum- 
stances, and in a flourishing condition, and went on board my ship again 
the 6th of May, having been about twenty-five days among them; and 
as tiiey were all resolved to stay upon the island till I came to remove 
them, I promised to send them fertber relief from the Brazils, if I could 
possibly find an opportunity : and particularly, I promised to send them 
some cattle, such as sheep, hogs, and co^s ; as to the two cows and calves 
which I brought from England, we had been obliged, by tlie length of 
our voyage, to kill th'-m at sea, for want of liay to feed them. 

The next day, giving them a salute of five guns at parting, we set sail, 
and arrived at the bay of All Saints, in the Brazils, in about twenty-two 
days, meeting nothing remarkable in our passage hut this ; that abont three 
days after we bad sailed, being becalmed, ami the current setting strong 
to the £. N. E. running, as it were, into a bay or golf on the land side, 
we were dnven something nut of our course, and once or twice our men 
cried out. Land to the eastward ; but whether it was the continent or is-^ 
lands we could not tell by any means. But the third day, towards even- 
ing, the sea smooth, and the weather calm, we saw the sea, as it were, 
GOYered towards the land with something very black ; not being able to 
discover what it was, till after some time, our chief mate going up the 
main-shrouds a little way, and looking at them with a perspective, cried 
out it uas an army. I could not imagine what he meant by an army, and 
thwarted him a little hastily. *^ Nay, Sir," says he, ^^don't be angry, 
for 'tis an army, and a fleet too ; for I believe there are a thousand canoes, 
and you may see them paddle along, for they are coming towards n» 
apace." 

I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so was my nephew the cap- 
tain ; for he. had heard such terrible stoiies of them in the island, and 
Laving never been in those seas before, that he could not tell what to think 
of ir, but said, two or three times, we should all be devoured. I must 
confess, considering we were becalmed, and the current set strong towards 
the shore, I liked it the worse ; however, I bade them not be afraid, but 
bring the ship to anchor as soon as we came so near as to know that we 
must engage them. 

The weather continued calm, and they came on apace towards ns ; so I 
gav« orders to come to anchor, and furl all our sails : as for the savages, 
I told ihem they had nothing to fear but fire, and therefore they should 
get their boats out, and fasten them, one close by the head, and the other 
by the stem, and man them both well, and wait the issue in that posture : 
this I did, that the men in the boats might be ready with sheets and 
buckets to put out any fire these savages might endeavour to fix to the 
outside of the ship. 

In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while they came up 
with us ; but never was such a horrid sight seen by Christians : though 

18 



Ill K.IFS iffl> ADVEmtJRlS 

my male w«« umh mistakea in his calculation of their namber, yet when 
Ihey came up we reckoned about a hundred and twenty-six ; some of 
Ihen bad sixlee3 or seventeen men in them, and some more, and the least 

m er se^n- 

When they o^me nearer to us, they seemed to be strqek with wonder 
and astonishment, as at a sight which doubtless they had never seen be^ 
fore j nor could they, at first, as we afterwwds understood, know what 
|» make of m; they came boldly up, however, very near to us, and seemed 
|» go about to row round us; but we called to our men in the boats not to 
let them come too near them. This very order brought us to an engage^ 
Bient with them, witliout our designing it ; for Aye or six of the large 
eanoes came so near our longboat that our men beckoned with their handis 
to keep theoi back, which they understood very well,' and went back, but 
it their retreat about fifty arrows came on board us from those boats, and 
one of our men in the lougboat ^as very much wounded. However, I 
called to (hem not to fire by any means ; but we banded down some deal 
boards into the boat, and the carpenter presently set up a kind of fence, 
like waste boards, to cover them from the arrows of the savages, if they 
should shoot again. 

About half m hour afterwards they all came up in a body astern of fM, 
and so near as that we could easily discern what they were, though we 
could not tell thw design ; and I easily found they were some of ray old 
friends, the same sort of savages that I had been used to engage with ; and 
in a short time more they rowed a little farther out to sea, till they eamit 
dareetly broadside with us,, and then rowed down straight upon us, till 
they came so near that they could hear us speak .upon tliis i ordered all 
my men to keep dose, lest they should dioot any more arrows, and made 
^ our guns ready; but being so near as to be within hearing, I made 
Friday go out up(m the deck, and call out aloud to them in his language, 
to know what they meant; which accordingly he did. Whether they 
uaderstood him ot not, that I knew not; but as soon as he had called H> 
them, six of them, who were in the foremost or nighest boat to us, turned 
their canoes from us, and stooping down, showed us their naked backsides, 
just as if, in English, saving your presence, they had bid us kiss—-**: 
wbetber this waa 9, deiance or challenge we knew not, or whether it was 
dpae in mere contempt, or as a signal to the rest ; but immediately Friday 
ciried out they were going to shoot, and unhappily for him, poor fellow, 
th«y let fly ahPHt three hundred of their arrows, and to my inexpressive 
griefft killed poor Friday, no other man being in their sight. The poor 
fellow was shot with no less than three arrows, and about three DMwe felA 
very near him ; such unlucky marksmen they were ! 

I wassoenraged at the loss of my old trusty servant and companion, 
tiMt I immediately ordered five guns to be loaded with small shot, and 
fcuir with great, and gave tliem such a broadside as they had never heard 
in their lives before, to be sure. They were not above half a eaWe's 
length off when we fired ; and our gimners look their aim so well that 
three or four of theur canoes were overset, as we had reason to believe, by 
one shot only. ^ 

.The iU mviners of tuniing up their bare backsides to us gave us no 
(ffeatolfene^; wither didl know fo certain v^tiMr that which would ' 



OP ROBINSON CRtSOE. 875 

pnn tor the greatest contempt amon^ as might be nnderstood so by them 
or not ; therefore, in retuiti, I had only resolved to have fired four or five 
gans at them \viih powder only, which I Icnew would frighten them sufli- 
deutly ; bat when they shot at us directly, with all the fury they were 
capable of, and especially as they had killed poor Friday, whom I so en- 
tirely loved and valued, and who, indeed, so well deserved it, I thought 
ttiysplf not only justifiable before God and man, but would have been very 
glad if I could have overset every canoe there, and drowned every one of 
them. 

I can neither tell how many we killed nor how many we wounded, at 
Uiic broadside, but sure such a fright and hurry never were seen among 
tach a multitude ; there were thirteen or fourteen of their canoes split 
and overset in all, and the men all set a swimming : the rest, frightened 
out of their wits, scoured away as fast as they could, taking but little care 
to save those whose boats were split or spoiled with our shot ; so I sup- 
pose that many of them were lost ; and our men took up one poor fellow 
swimming for bis life, above an hour after they were all gone. 

The small shot fk'om our cannon must needs kill and wound a great 
many ; but, in short, we never knew anything how it went with them, 
Ibr they fled so fast that, in three hours, or thereabouts, we could not see 
above three or four straggling canoes, nor did we ever see the rest any 
more ; for a breeze of wind springing up the same evening, we weighed, 
and set sail for the Brazils. 

We had a prisoner, indecfd, but the creature was so sullen that he would 
neiUier eat nor speak, and we all fanried he would starve himself to death : 
bot I took a way to cure him ; for I made them take him and turn him 
into the longboat, and make him believe they would toss hhn into the sea 
again, and so leave him where they found him, if he would not speak : nor 
would that do, but tliey really did throw him into the sea, and came away 
from him; and then he followed them, for he swam like a cork, and called 
to them, in his tongue, though they knew not one word of what he said : 
however, at last they took him in again, and then he began to be more 
tractable ; nor did I ever design they should drown him. 

We were now under sail again ; but I was the most disconsolate crea- 
ture alive for want of my man Friday, and would have been very glad 
to have gone back to the island to have taken one of the rest from thence 
fi»rmy occasion; but it could not be : so we went on. We had one pri- 
soner, as I have said, and it was a long time before we could make him 
understand anytliing; bot, in time, our men taught him some English, 
and he began to be a little tractable. Afterwards, we inquired what 
ooonlry he came fkom, but could make nothing of what he said ; for his 
speech was so odd, all gutturals, and he spoke in the throat in soch a 
hollow, odd manner, that we could never form a word after him ; and 
we were all of opinion that they miglit speak that language as well if they 
were gagged as otherwise; nor could we perceive that they had any occa- 
sion either for teeth, tongue, lips, or palate, but formed their words just 
as a hunting horn forms a tune, with an open throat. He told us, how- 
ever, some time after, when we had taught him to speak a little English, 
Uuit tkey were going with their kings to fight a great battle. When he 
said kiogS) wo asked hhn how many kings? He said they were five na- 



276 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

tion (we could not make him understand the plural s), and that they all 
joined to go against two nation. We asked liim what made ihem come 
up to us? He said, *'To makee te great wonder look." Here it is to to 
observed, that all (hose natives, as also those of Africa, wlien they learn 
English, always add two e's atlhe end of the woitls wliere we use one; 
and they place the accent upon them, as niakee, takee, and the like ; and 
we Cduld not break them of it; nay, I could hardly make Friday leave it 
off, though at last he did. 

And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take my last leave 
of him : Poor honest Friday ! We buried him with all the decency and 
solemnity possible, by putting him into a coffin, and throwing him into 
the sea; and i caused Ihem to fire eleven gUQS for him : and so ended Ihe 
life of the most grateful, faithful, honest, and «ost affectionate servant 
that ever man had. 

We went now away with a fair wind for Brazil ; and in aliont twelve 
days 'time we made land, in the latitude of five degrees south of the liiie^ 
being the north-eastermost land of all that part of America. We kept 
on S. by £. in sight of the shore four d;iys, when we made Cape St. Au- 
gustine, and in three days came to an anchor off the bay of All Saints, the 
old place of my deliverance, from whence came both my good and evil fate. 
]Never ship came to this port that had le^s business than I had, and yet 
it was with great difficulty that we were admitted to hold the least cor- 
respondence on shore : not my partner himself, who was alive, and made 
a great figiire among them, not my two merchant-trustees, not the fame 
of my wonderful prtservaiion in the island, could obtain me that favour f 
but my partner, remembering that I had given five hundred moidores to 
the prior of the mimastery of tlie Augustines, and two hundred and se- 
venty-two to the poor, wen., to the monastery, and obliged the prior that 
then was, to go to the governor, and g t leave f(»r me personally, with Uie 
captain and one more, besides eight seamen, to come on shore, and no 
more; and this upon conihliou ak^olulcly capiinlaled for, that we should 
not offer to land any goods out of the ship, or to carry any person away 
without licence. They were so strict with us, as to landing any goods, 
that it was with extreme difficulty that I got on shore three bales of Eng- 
lish goods, such as fine broadcloths, stui£$, and some linen, which I had 
brought for a present to my partner. 

He was a very generous, open-hearted man; though, like me, he came 
from little at first : and though he knew not that 1 had the least desi^ of 
giving him anything, he sent me on hoard a present of fresh provisions, 
wine, and sweetmeats, worth above thirty moidores, including some to-* 
bacco, and three or four fine medals of gold : hut I was even with him in 
my present, which, as I have said, consisted of Rne broadcloth, English 
stuf's, lace, and fine Holland ; also 1 dt livered him about the value of one 
hmidred poiinds sterling, in the same goods, for other uses; and I obliged 
him to set up the sloop, which I had brought with me from England, as 
I have said, for the use of my colony, in order to send the refreshments 
I intended to my plantation. 

Accordingly, he goi hands, and finished the sloop in a very few days, 
for she was already framed ; and I gave the master of her such inalruc- 
4ions as that he could not miss the place; nor did he miss it, as I IumI 



or ROBINSON CRUSOE. 277 

an acconnt from my partner afterwards. I got him soon loaded with the 
smalt carfco I sent them ; and one of our seamen, that had been on siiore 
with me there, offend to f^ wiih the stoop and st*ttle there, upon my let- 
ter to the governor Spaniard, to allot liim a sufficient quantity of land for 
a plantation, and giving liim some clothes and tools for his planting work, 
wliich lie said he und(*rstood, havhig l)een an old planter at Maryland, 
and a buccaneer into the bargain. I encouraged the fellow, by granting 
all he desired; and, as an addition, I gave him the savage whom we had 
taken pi isoner of war, to be his slave, and ordered the governor Spaniard 
to give liim his share of every thing he wanted with the resl^. 

W hen we came to fit this man out, my old partner told me, there was 
a certain very honest fellow, a Brazil planter of his acquaintance, who 
had fallen into the dispdeasure of the church. '* I know not what the 
matter is with him," says he, ' * but on my conscience, I think he is a he- 
retic in his heart, and he has been obliged to conceal himself for fear of 
the Inquisition;*' that he would be very glad of such an opportunity to 
make his escape, wiih his wife and two daughters; and if I would let 
them go to my island, and allot them a plantation, he would give them a 
small slock to begin with ; for the officers of the Inquisition had seized 
all his effects and estate, and he had nothing left but a little household 
stuff, and two slaves : ^' and," adds he, '^ though I hate his principles, 
yet I would not have him fall into their hands, for he will be assuredly 
burned alive if he does " 

I granted this presently, and joined my Englishman with them; and 
we concealed tlie man, and his wife and daughters, on board our ship, 
till the sloop put out to go to sea; and Ihen having put all their goods 
on board some time l)efore, we put them on board the sloop after she 
was got out of the bay. 

Our seaman was mightily pleased with this new partner; and their 
stocks, indeed, were mucli alike, rieh in tools, in preparations, and a farm; 
l)nt notliing to bei;in with, except as above : however, they carried over 
with them, which was worth ail the rest, some materials for planting su- 
garcanes, with some plants of canes, which he, I mean the Portugal man^ 
understood very well. 

Among ihe rest of the supplies sent to my tenants in the island, I sent 
them by the sloop ihree milch cows and five calves, about twenty-two 
hogs among them, ihreesows big with pig, two mares, and a stonehorse. 
For my Spaniards, according to my promise, I engaged three Portugal 
women to g(», and recommended it to them to marry them, and nse them 
kindly. I could have piocured more women, but I remembered |J|^at the 
poor persecuted man had two daughters, and that there were but ti\e of 
the 8(taniards that wanted; the rest had wives of their own, though in 
another country. 

All ttiis cargo arrived safe, and, as you may easily suppose, was very 
welcome to my oM inhabitants, who were now, with this addition, be- 
tweensixly and seventy p ople, hesid<'S liille children, of which there were 
a great many. I found letters at London from tht^m all, by way of Lis- 
bon, when I came back to England, of which I shall also take some notice 
immediately. 

I bate now done with the island, and all manner of discourse about 



U ; and whoever reads the rest of my memorandQuift. woQld iff ^faH to lorn 

his thoughts entirely from it, and expect to read of the foUies of an old 
vaatiy not warned by his own harois, much less by those of other men, to 
beware of ihe like; not cooled by almost forty years' miseries and diiafh* 
pointments ; not satisfied with prosperity beyond expectation, nor madct 
cautious by afflictions and distress beyond imitation. 

I had no more business to go to ihe East Indies than a man at full li- 
berty has to go to the turnkey at Newgate, and desire him to lock hiia op 
among tlie prisoners there, and starve him. Had I taken a smaU veasal 
from England, and gone directly to the island ; had I loaded her, as I dki 
^ other vessel, with all the necessaries for the plantation, and br my 
people; taken a patent from the government here to have secured my pro* 
perty, in subjection only to that of England; had i carried over cannon 
and ammunition, servants and people to plant, and taken possession of 
the place, fortified and strengthened it in the name of England, and In- 
creased it witli people, as I might easily have done; had I then settled 
myself there, and sent the ship back laden with gpod rice, as I might also 
have done in six months' time, and ordered my friends to have fitted her 
ont again for our supply ; had I done this, and stayed there myself, I had 
at least acted like a man of common sense : but I was possessed with a 
wandering spirit, and scorned all advantages : I pleased myself with 
being the patron of the people I placed ihere, and doing for them in a 
kind of haughty, majestic way, like an old patriarchal monarch, providing 
for them as if I had been fother of the whole family, as well as of Ihe 
plantation : but I never so much as pretended to plapt in the name of 
any government or nation, or to. acknowledge any prince, or to call my 
people subjects to any one nation more than another : nay I never so 
much as gave the place a name, but left it as I found it, belonging to no* 
body, and the people under no discipline or government but my own ; 
who, (hough I had influence over Uiem as a father and benefoctor, had no 
authority or power to act or command one way er other, farther than to- 
lunlary consent moved them to comply : yet even this, had I stayed there, 
would have done well enough ; but as I rambled from them, and cftme 
there no more, the last letters 1 had from any of them were by my pail* 
ner's means, who afterwards sent another sloop to the place, and who 
sent me word, though I had not the letter till I got to London, several 
years after it was written, that they went on but poorly, were malcontent 
with their long stay there; that Will Atkins was dead; that live of the Spa-* 
niards were come away; and though they had not been much molested 
by the savages, yet they had had some skirmishes with them ; and that 
they begged of him to write to me to think of the promise I had made to 
fetch them away, that they might see their country again before 4iej 
died. 

But I was gone a wildgoose chase, indeed \ and they that will have 
any more of me must be content to follow me into a new variety of folliefty 
hardships, and wild adventures, whereui the justice of Providence m»if 
be duly observed, and we may see how easily Heaven can gorge us witli 
our own desires, make the strongest of our wishes be oar affliction, and 
punish us most severely with those very things which we think it wo«kl 
be our utmost happiness to be allowed in. Whether I had boaineia or no 



•OP KGBINSON CSaUSOE. 

Imsittefli, away I went : it is no time now to enlarge iip6n tbe reason or 
absardity of my own condact, but to oome to the history; I wasembarked 
jfor the voyage, and the voyage I went. 

I shall only adda word or two concerning my honest popish clergyman; 
for let their opinion of us, and all other heretics in general, as they call 
lis, be as uncharitaUe as it may, I verily believe this man was very sin* 
cere, and wished the good of all men i yet I believe he was upon the ra^ 
serve in many of his expressions, to prevent giving me offence | ftir I searet 
heard him once call on the blessed Virgin, or mention St. lago or his 
guardian angel, though so common with the rest ef them : however, I 
say, I had not die least doubt of his sincerity and pious intentions on his 
own part; and I am firmly of opinion, if the rest of the popish mission^ 
aries were like him, they would strive to visit even the poor Tartars and 
Laplanders, where they have nothing to give them, as well as covet to 
flock to India, Persia, China, etc. tbe most wealthy of the heathen eoun* 
iries; for if they expected to bring no gains td their ditiroh by it, it may 
well be admired how they came to admit the Chinese Gonfticias into the 
calendar of the Christian saints. But this by the by. 

A ship being ready to sail for Lisbon, my pious priest asked me leave to 
go thither; being stitl, as he observed, bound never to finish any voyage 
he began. How happy had it been for me if I had gone with him t But 
it was too late now : all things Heaven appoints for the best t had I gone 
with him, I had never had so many things to be thankftil for, and the 
reader had never heard of the second part of the travels and adventures 
of Robinson Crusoe; so I must here leave exclaiming at myself, and go 
on with my voyage. From the Brazils we made directly over the Atlantic 
Sea to the Cape of Good Hope, and had a tolerable good voyage, our 
course generally south-east, now and then a storm, and some contrary 
winds : but my disasters at sea were at an end; my future rubs and eros6 
events were to befall me on shore, that it might appear the lalld was u 
well prepared to be our scourge as the sea. 

Oar ship was on a trading voyage, and had a supercargo on board, who 
was to direct all her motions after she arrived at the Cape, only hdng 
Umited to a certain number of days for stay, by charter-party, at th^ 
several ports she was to go to. This was none of my business, neither 
did I lasddle with it; my nephew, the captain, and the supercargo, ad* 
justing ail those things between them as they thought fit. 

We stayed at the Cape no longer than was needfdl to^'take in f^h 
water, but made the best of our way for the coast of Coromandel. We 
were indeed informed that a French man of war of fifty guns, and two 
large merchant ships, were gone for the Indies ; and as I knew we were 
at war witli France, I bad some apprehensions of them; but they went 
their own way, and we heard no more of them. 

I shall not pester the reader with a tedious description of places, 
journals of our voyages, variations of tbe compass, latitudest tradv- 
winds, etc. ; it is enough to name the ports and places which we touched 
at, and what occurred to us upon our passage from one to anoth^fi We 
touched first at the island of Madagascar, where, though the people wre 
fierce and treaehevons, and very well armed with kmees and bows, which 
they use wiih inconceivable df xterity, yet we fared very, well wltWlheih 



LCPE AlO) ADVENTURES 

a white; they treated us very civilly; and, for some trifles which we 
gave them, such as koives, scLssars, 4*lc. they brought us eleven good fat 
bullocks, of a middling: size, which, we took in, partly for fresh provisions 
for our present spending, and the rest to sail for the ship's use. 

We were obliged to stay here some lime after we had furnished ourselves 
with provisions^ and I, who was always too curious to look into every 
nook of the world wherever I came, was for going on shore as often as I 
oould. It was on the east side of the island that we went on shore one 
evening : and the people, who, by the way, are very numerous, came 
thronging about us, and stood gazing at us at a distance; but as we had 
traded fredy with them, and had been kindly used, we thought ourselves 
in no danger; but wlien we saw the people, we cut three boughs out of 
a tree, and stuck them up at a distance from us; which, it seems, is a 
mark in that country, not only of a truce and friendship, but when it is 
accepted, the other side set up three poles or boughs, which is a signal 
that they accept the truce too; but then tins is a known condition of tlie 
(ruce, Uiat you are not to pass beyond their three poles towards them, 
nor they to come past your three poles, or l)oughs, towards you ; so that 
yon are perfectly secure within the three poles, and all the space between 
your poles and theirs is allowed like a market for free converse, traffic, 
and commerce. When you go there, you must not carry your weapons 
with you : and if they come into that space, they sUck up their javelins 
and lances all at the first poles, and come on unarmed; but if any violence 
is offered them, and the truce thereby broken, away they nm to the 
poles, and lay hold of their weapons, and the truce is at an end. 

It happened one evening when we went on shore, that a greater 
number of their people came down than usual, hut all very friendly and 
civil; and they brought several kinds of provisions, for which we satisfied 
them with such toys as we had; tlieir women also brought us milk and 
roots, and several things very acceptable to us, and all was quiet; and 
we made us a little tent or hut of some boughs of trees, and lay onshore 
all night. 

I know not what was the occasion, but I was not so well satisfied to 
lie on shore as the rest ; and the boat riding at an anchor about a stone's 
cast from the land, with two men in her to take care of her, I made one 
of them come on shore; and getting some boughs of trees to cover us also 
in the boat, I spread the sail on the bottom of the boat, and lay under the 
cover of the l)ranches of the trees all night in the boat. 

About two o'clock in the morning we heard one of our men make a 
terrible noise on the shore, calling out, for God's sake to bring the boat 
in, and come and help them, for they were all like to be murdered ; at the 
same time I heard the fire of five muskeis, which was the number of the 
guns they had, and that three timis over; for, it seems, the natives here 
were not so easily frightened with guns as the savages were in America, 
where I had lo do with them. All this while I knew not what was the 
m^Hter, but rousing immediately from sleep with the noise, I caused the 
boat to be thrust in, and resolved, with three fusees we had on lioard, to 
Jand and assist our men. 

We got the boat soon to the shore, but our men were in too much 
.haace, for being come to the shore, they plunged into the water, to get 



OF ROBINSON GRUSOK. 9Sff 

to the boat with all the expedition they could, bein^ punned by between 
lliree and foar humired mm. Our men were but nine in all, and only 
fiveohhem bad fnsees with Ihem; the rest iiad pistols and swords, indeed, 
bat they were of small nse to ihem. 

We took op seven of our men, and with difRcuUy enough too, three of 
t^em being very ill wounded; and that which was still worse was, that 
vhile we stood in the boat to take our men in, we were in as mnch dan- 
ger as they were in on shore ; for they poured their arrows in upon as so 
thick that we were glad to barricade ihe side of the boat up with the 
benches, and two or three loose boards, which, to our great satisfaction, 
we had by mere accident in the b(iat. And yei, had it bee» daylight, 
they are, it seems, such exact marksmen, that if they could have seen but 
the least part of any of us, they would have been sure of us. We had, 
by the light of the moon, a little sight of them, as they stood pelting us 
from the shore with darts and arrows ^ and having got rea<ly our firearms, 
we gave them a volley, that we could hear, by the cries of some of ihem^ 
bad wounded several; however, they stood thus in battle array on the 
shore till break of day, which we suppose was that they might see the 
better to lake their aim at us. 

In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to weigh onr anchor 
or set up our sail, because we must neeiis stand up in the boat, and they 
were as sure to hit us as we were to hit a bird in a tree with small shot. 
We made signals of distress to the ship, which though she lode a l«*agae 
off, yet my nephew the captain, hearing our firing, and by glasses per- 
ceiving the posture we lay in, and that we fired towards the shore, pretty 
well understood us ; and weighing anchor with all .<peed, he stood as near 
tlie shore as he durst with the ship, and then sent another boat with ten 
bauds in her, to assist us : but we called to tltem not to come too near, 
telling them what condition we were in; ht^wever they stood in near to 
as, an4l one of the men taking the end of a towline in his hand, and 
keeping our boat between him and the enemy, so that they con^d not 
perfectly see him, swam on board us, and made fast the line to the boat; 
upon which we slipped out a little cable, and leaving our anchor behind, 
they towed us out of reach of the arrows; we all the while lying close 
behind the barricado we had made. 

As soon as we were got from between the ship and the shore, that we 
could lay her side to the shore, she ran along just by them, and poured in 
a broadside among them loaded with pieces of iron and lead, smalt bullets, 
and such stuff, besides the great shot, which made a terrible havoc among 
them. ^ 

When we were got on board and out of danger, we had lime to examine 
into the occasion of this fray; and, indeed, our supercarjfo, who had been 
often in those parts, put me upon it; fur he said he was sure the inhabi- 
tants wouhl not have touched us after we had ma<!e a truce, if we had not 
done something to provoke them to it. At length it cante out that an old 
woman, who had come to sell us some milk, had brought it within our 
poles, and a young woman with her, who also biougfit s<)me roots or 
herbs ; and while the old woman ( whether she was mother to the young 
woman or no they could not tell ) was selling us the milk, one of our men 
offered some rudeness to the wench that was with her, at which the old 



Un ARD AUVMlTfUnS 

mot M SRst Boite : however y the iwmiiMin woidd not i|iiit fait 
frixey hot cavried her oat of the old woman's sight amoi^ the trees, it 
being ahnoil dark : the old woman went away without her, and, as we 
maj suppose, made an oatcry among the people she came from; wh», 
■pen notice, raised this great army upon as in three or foor hoars; and 
il was great odds bat we had all been destroyed. 

One of oar men wv killed with a lanee thrown at him jast at die 
b^nmg of the attack, as he sallied oat of the tent they had made : the 
rest eame off free, all bat the felkiw who was tlie occasion of all the mio- 
chief, who paki dear enoagfa Ibr his black inistress, for we could not hear 
what became of him a great while. We hy npon the shore two days 
alter, thoagh the wind presented, and made signals for him, and made 
oar boat sail up shore and down shore sereralleagoes, hot in Tain, so we 
were obliged to gire him oTcr; and if he alone had suffered tor it, the 
kss had been less. 

I ooald not satisfy myself, howeyer, without lentaring on diore onee 
more, to try if I eoald learn anything of him or them; it was the third 
night after the action that I bad a great mind to learn, if I coold by any 
means, what mischief we had done, and how the game stood on the 
Indians' side. I was careM to do it in the dark, lest we should be 
attacked again ; bat I onght, indeed, to haye been sore that the men I 
went with had been nnder mf conunand, before I engaged in a thing so 
hazardoas and mischievous as I was brought into by it, without design. 

We look twenty as stoul fellows with us as any in the ship, besides the 
supercargo and myself, and we landed two hours before midnight, at the 
•ame place where the Indians stood drawn up in the evening before. I 
landed here, because my design, as I have said, was chiefly to see .if they 
had qohted the field, and if they had left any marks behind them of the 
mischief we had done them; and I thought if we coold surprise one or 
two of them, perhaps we might get our man agam, by way of exchange. 

We landed without any noise, and divided our men into two bodies, 
whereof the boatswain commanded one, and I the other. We neither 
Mw nor heard anybody stir when we landed : and we marched up, one 
body at a distance from the other, to the place ; but at first could see 
nothing, it being very dark ; UU by and by our boatswain, who led the 
fint party, stumbled and fell over a dead body. This made them halt 
awhile; for knowing by the circumstances that they were at the place 
where the Indians had stood, they wailed for roy coming up there. We 
eonduded to halt till tlie moon began to rise, which we knew would be 
in less than, an hour, when we conld easily discern the havoc we had 
made among them. We told thirty-two bodies upon the ground, 
whereof two were not quite dead; some had an arm, and some a leg shot 
off, and one his head : those that were wounded, we suppose, they had 
carried away. 

When we had made, as I thought, a fuU discovery of all we could 
come to the knowledge of, I was resolved for going on board ; but the 
boatswain and his party sent me word that tliey were resolved to make a 
yisil to the Indian town, where these dogs, as they called them, dwelt, 
and asked me to go aking with them, and if they could find tiiem, as 
Ihey still fkneied they should^ they did not doubt of getting a good booty ^ 



\ 



OP RomraoN cBusoi. us 

iOd it night bt tkej might find Tom Jeffry there s that was the manfa 
name we had lost. 

Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well enoagh what answer 
to have given them; for I should have commanded them instantly on 
board, knowing it was not a hazard fit for us to run, who had a ship, and 
ship*-loading in our charge, and a voyage to make which depended very 
imush upon the lives of the men; but as they sent me word they were 
resolved to go, and only asked me and my company to go alcmg with 
Ihem, I positively refused it, and vose up, for I was sitting on the ground, 
in order to go to the boat. One or two of the men began to importune 
me to go; and when I refused, began to grumble, and say that they were 
not under my command, and ihey would go. '^ Come, Jack,^' says one 
of the men, '^ wilhyou go with me? Til go for one." Jack said he would, 
r-^md then another,^and, in a word, they all left me but one, whom I 
persuaded to stay, and a boy left in the boat. So the supercargo and I, 
with the third man, went back to the boat, where we told them, we would 
stay for them, and take care to take in as many of them as should be left; 
for I told them it was a mad thing they were going about, and supposed 
most of them would run the fate of Tom Jeffry. 

They told me, like seamen, they would warrant if they would coma 
off again, and they would take care, etc. ; so away they went. I entreat- 
ed them to consider the ship and the voyage, that their lives were not 
their own, and that they were intrusted with the voyage, in some mea- 
sure ; that if they miscarried, the ship mighibe lost for want of their help, 
and that they could not answer for it to God or man. But I might as 
well have talked to the mainmast of the ship; they were mad upon their 
journey ; only they gave me good words, and begged I would not be angry ; 
that they did not dovibi but they would be back again in about an hour 
at farthest; for the Indian town, they said, was not above half a mile off^ 
though they found it above two miles before they got to it. 

Well, they all went away; and though the attempt was desperate, and 
such as none but madmen would have gone about, yet, to give them their 
due, they went about it as warily as boldly : they were gallantly armed^ 
for they bad every man a fusee or musket, a bayonet, and a pistol; some 
of them had broad cutlasses, some of them had hangers, and the boatswain 
9nd two more bad poleaxes; besides all which, they had among them 
(hurteen hand grenadoe s; bolder fellows, and belter provided, never went 
about any wicked work in the world. 

When they went out, their chief design was plunder, and they were 
in mighty hopes of finding gold there ; but a circumstance, which none 
qI them were aware of, set them on fire with revenge, and made devils 
of them all. When they came to the few Indian houses which they 
thought had been the town, which was not above half a mile off, they 
were under a great disappointment, for there were not above twelve or 
ttirteen houses; and where the town was, or how big, they knew not. 
They consulted, therefore, what to do, and were some time before they 
Qonld resolve; for if they fell upon these, they must cut all their throats, 
and it was ten to ene but some of them might escape, it being in the night, 
lihough the moon was up ; and if one escaped^ he would run and raise all 
te^town, so the; sho9ld l^ave a whde army upon them : agein, on the 



284 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

Other hand, if they vent away and left those nntonched, for the people 
Tvere all asleep, they coald not tell which way to look for the town : how* 
ever, the last was the l^est advice, so they re8otv^d lo leave them, and look 
for the tuwn as well as they could. They went on a little way, and found 
a cow tie<i to a tree ; this, they presently concluded, would be a good 
guide to them ; for, they said, the cow certainly belonged t» the town 
before them, or the town behind them; and if they untied her, they 
should see which way she went; if she went Liack, they had nothing to 
say to her; bnt, if she went forward, they would follow her : ae they <;ut 
the cord, which was made of twisted flags, and the cow went on before 
them directly to tlie town ; which, as they reported, consisted of above 
two luindred houses or huts, and in some of these they found several fa* 
milies living together. 

Here they found all in silence, as profoundly secure as sleep could make 
them : and, first, they calle<l another council, to consider what they had 
to do ; and, in word, they resolved to divide tiiemseves into three bodies, 
and so set three houses on fire in three parts of the town ; and as the men 
came out, to sdze them and bind them (if any resisted, they need not be 
asked what to tlo then), and so to search the rest of the houses for plunder: 
but they resolved to march silently first throtigh the town, and see what 
dimensions it was of, and if they might venture upon it or no. 

They did so, and desperately resolved that they would venture upon 
them : but while they were aniniating one another lo the work, three of 
them, wiio were a little before the rest, called out aloud to them, and 
told them, that they had found Tom Jeffry : they all ran up to the place, 
where they found the poor fellow hanging up naked by one arm, and his 
throat cut. There was an Indian house just by the tree, where they 
found sixteen or seventeen of the principal Indians who hatl been con- 
cerned in the fray with us before, and two or three of them wounded 
with our shot ; anil our men found they were awake, and talking one to 
another in that house, but knew not tlieir number. 

The sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged them, as before, 
that they swore lo one another they would be revenged, and that not an 
Indian that came into their hands should have any quarter ; and to work 
they went immediately, and yet not so m.idly as might be expected from 
the rage and fury they were in. . Their first care was to get something 
that would soon take fire, but, after a little search, they found that would 
be to no purpose ; for most of the houses were'low, and thatched with 
flays and rushes, of which the country is full ; ^o they presentl> made some 
wihifire, as we call it, by wetlinga little powder m the pilm of their hands; 
and in a quarter of an hour they set the town on fire hi four or five places, 
and particularly that house where the In Jims we. e not gone to bed. 

As soon as the lire began to blaze, the (K>or frightened creatures began 
to rush out to save their lives, but met whh their fate in the attempt ; and 
especially at the door, where they drove them back, the boatswain him>elf 
killing one or two with his poleaxe. The house being large, and many 
in it, he did not care to go in, but called for a hand gn nado, and ihrew 
it among them, which at first frightened them, but, when it bnrst, made 
such havoc among them that they cried out in a hideous manner. In 
short, most of the Indians who were in the open part of the house were 



C^ ROBINSON CiiUSOC. fSH 

kilM or hart with the grpnado, except two or three more who pressed 
to the <lo()r, which the boalswaiti and iwo more kept, with liieir liayonets 
on the muzzles of their pieces, and despatched all that came in their way; 
but there was anotlier apartment in the tiouse, where the prince or kin^, 
or whatever he was, and st'veral others, were ; and these were kept in 
till the house, which was by tliis time all in a light flame, fell in upon 
them, and they were smothered together. 

All this while they lired not a gun, because they would not waken the 
people fai^r than they could master them ; but the fire began to waken 
them fast(*noagh, and our IVllo^vs were glad to keep a tittle together in 
bodies; for the fire grew so ra^ring, all the houses bein^ made or light 
co!nhustil)le stuff, that they could hardly bear the street between them; 
and their busines^s was to follow the fire, for the surer execution : as fast 
as ihf fire either forced the people out of those houses which were bom* 
ing, or frightened them out of other^, our people were ready at their doors 
to knock them on the head, still calling and hallooing to one to another 
to remember 'i'om Je'fry. 

While this was doing, I mast confess I was very uneasy, and especially 
when I saw the flames of the town, which, it being night, seemed to be 
just by me. My nephew, the captain, who was rouse<l by his men, 
seeing such a fire, was very uneasy, not knowing what the matter was, 
or what danger I was in, esi)ecially hearin;^ the guns too, for by this lime 
they began to use their firearms ; a thousand thiiughts opfiresitetl his mind 
concerning me and the supercargo, what would become of us; and, at 
last, though he could li) spare any more men, yet not knowing what 
exigence we might l)e in, he takes another boat, and with thirteen men 
and himself C(»mes on shore to me. 

lie was surprised to see nie and the supercargo in the lioat with no 
more than two men ; and though he was glad that we were well, yet he 
was in the same impatience with us to knew what was doing ; for the 
noise continued, and the flame increased : in short, it was next to an im- 
possibility for any men in the world to restrain th^'ir curiosity to know 
what had happened, or their concern for the safety of the men : in a word, 
the captain told me he would go and help his men, let what would come. 
I argued with him, as I did before with the men, the safety of the ship, 
the danger of the voyage, the interest of the owners and merchants, etc. 
and told him I and the two men would go, and only see if we could at a 
distance learn what was like to be the event, and come hack and ti 11 him. 
It was all one to talk to my nephew, as it was to talk to the rest liefore; he 
would go, he said; and he only wished he had left but ten men in the 
ship, for he could not think of having his men lost for want of help ; he 
had rather lose the ship, the voyage, and his life and all : and away he 
went. 

I was no more able to stay behind now, than I was to persuade them 
not to go; 8.», in short, the captain ordered two men to row back the 
pinnace, and fetch twelve men more, leaving the longl)oat at an anchor; 
and that when they came back, six men should keep the two b«)ats, and 
six more come after us: so that he left only sixteen men in the ship; for 
the whole sliip's company consisted of sixty-five men, whereof two were 
lost in the late quarrel which brought this mischief on. 



LdTE AfO) AbVENTimCS 

Being now mi the inarch, yoa may be stfre we felt little of the giDimd 
we trod on; and being guided by the fire, we kept no path, but went 
directly to the place of the flame. If the noise of the guns was surprising 
to us before, the cries of the poor people were now quite of another na- 
ture, and iiiled us with horror. I must confess I was never at the sack- 
ing a city, or at the taking a town by storm. I had heard of Oliver 
Cromwell taking Drogheda, in Ireland, and killing man, woman, and 
child ; and I had read of Count Tilly sacking the city of Magdebourg, and 
cutting the throats of twenty-two thousand of all sexes ; but I never had 
an idea of the thing itself before, nor is it possible to describe it, or the 
horror that was upon our minds at seeing it. However, we went on^ 
and at length came to the town, though there was no entermg the streets 
of it for the fire. The first object we met with was the ruins of a hut or 
house, or rather the ashes of it, for the house was consumed : and just 
before it, plain now to be seen by the light of the fire, lay four men and 
three women killed, and, as we thought, one or two more lay ui the heap 
among the fire ; in short, there were such instances of rage altogether 
barbarous, and of a fury something beyond what was human, that we 
thought it impossible our men could be guilty of it ; or if they were the 
authors of it, we thought they ought to be every one of them put to Uu^ 
worst of deaths. But this was not all : we saw the fire increased 
forward, and the cry went on just as the fire went on; so that we were 
in the utmost confusion. We advanced a little way farther ; and, behold 
to oar astonishment, three naked women, and crying in a most dreadful 
manner, came flying as if they had wings, and after them -sixteen or se- 
venteen men, natives, in the same terror and consternation, wiUi tliree 
of our English butchers in the rear ; who, when they could not over^ 
take them, fired in among them, and one that was killed by (heir shot 
fell down in our sight. When the rest saw us, believing us to be their 
enemies, and that we would murder them as well as those that pursued 
them, they set up a most dreadful shriek, especially the women, and two 
of them fell down, as if already dead, with the fright. 

My very soul shrunk within me, and my blood ran chill in my veins, 
when I saw this : and I believe, had the three English sailors that par- 
soed them come on, I had made our men kill them all : however, we took 
some ways to let the poor flying creatures know that we would not hurt 
Ihemf and immediately they came up to us, and kneeling down, with 
their hands lifted up, made piteous lamentation to us to save them, which 
we let them know we would ; whereupon they crept all together in a 
huddle dose behind us, as for protection. ^ left my men drawn up to* 
gether, and chaining them to hurt nobody, but, if possible, to get at some 
of our people, and see what devil it was possessed them, and what they 
intended to do, and to command them off; assuring them that if tbey 
stayed tiU daylight, they would have a hundred thousand men about their 
ears : I say, I left them, and went among those flying people, taking only 
two of our men with me ; and there was indeed a piteous spectacle among 
them; some of them had their feet terribly burned, with trampling and 
nmning through the fire, others their hands burned ; one of the women 
had fallen down in the fire, and was very much burned before she ooold 
get out agam; and two or three of the men had eoU in their backs and 



or ROklNSON GRtSOC.' Mr 

thighs from our men pursuing; and another vrtts shot through the body, 
and died while I was there. 

I would fain haye learned what the occasion of all this was, but I could 
not understand one word they said ; thougti, by signtf, I perceived some of 
them knew not what was the occasion themselves. I was so terrified in 
ray thoughts at this outrageous attempt, that I could not stay there, but 
went back to my own men, and resolved to go into the middle of the town, 
through the fire, or whatever might be in the way, and put an end to it, 
oost what it would : accordingly, as I came back to my men, I told them 
my resoluUoft, and commanded them to follow me ; when at the very nMK 
ment came four of our men, with the boatswain at their head, roving over 
heaps of bodies they had killed, all covered with blood and dust, as if they 
wanted more people to massacre, when our men hallooed to them as loud 
as they could halloo ; and with much ado one of them made them hear, so 
that they knew who we were, and came up to us. 

As soon as the boatswain saw us, he set up a haliod like a shout of 
triumph, for having, as he thought, more help come; and without waiting' 
to hear me, '^ Captain," says he, '^ noble captaui ! I am glad you are come ; 
we have not half done yet : villanous bell-hound dogs ! I'll kill as many of 
them as poor Tom has hairs upon his head : we have sworn to spare none 
of them ; we'll root out the very nation of them from the earth : " and thus 
he ran on, out of breath too with action, and would not give us leave to 
speak a word. 

At last, raising my voice, that I might silence him a little, ^* Barbarous^ 
dog ! " said I, '^ what are you doing ? I won't have one creature touched 
more, upon pain of death : I charge you, upon your life, to stop your hands, 
and standstill here, or you are a dead man this minute." — '^ VVhy, Sir," 
says he, '^ do you know what you do, or what they have done ? if yon want^ 
a reason for what we have done, come hither; " and with that he showed 
me the poor fellow hanging with his throat cut. 

I confess I was urged then myself, and at another time would have been 
fturward enough ; but I thought they had carried their rage too fer^ and re- 
nieiaiiered Jacob's words to his sons Simeon and Levi — '^Cursed be their 
anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath, for it was cruel." But I had 
now a new task upon my hands; for when the men I carried with me 
saw the sight, as I had done, I had as much to do to restrain them as I 
should have had with the others; nay, my nephew himself fell in with 
them, and told me, in their hearing, that he was only concerned for fear 
of the nMsn being overpowered; and as to the people, he thought not one 
of them ought to live; for they had all glutted themselves with the murder 
of the poor man, and that they ought to be used like murderers. Upoa 
these words, away ran eight of my men, with the boatswain and his crew, 
to complete their bloody work ; and*I, seeing it quite out of my power to 
restrain them, came away pensive and sad; for I could not bear the sight, 
much less the horrible noise and eries of the poor wretches that fell into 
their hands. 

I got nobody to come back with me but the supercargo and two men, 
and with these walked back to the boat. B was a very great (nece of 
folly in roe, I confess to venture back as it were alone; for as it began 
now ta b& almost day, and &4 alann run over the country^ there stood 



ttS LIFE AND ADVfiiriTJRfiS 

about forty tnen armed with lances and bows* at the little place where 
the twelve or thirteen iioiises stood, mentioned before ; but by accident I 
missed tiie plare, and came directly to the seaside ; and by the time I got 
to the seaside it was broad day : immediately I took Ihe pinnace and went 
on hoard, and sent her back to a^^tst the men in what might happen. 

I observed, about the time that I came to the l^oatside, that the fire wag 
pretty well out, and the noise abated ; but in al)out half an hour after I 
got on board I heard a volley of our men's firearms, and saw a great 
smnke : this, as I onderstmMl afterwards, was our men falling upon the 
men who, as I said, stood at the few houses on the way, of whom they 
killed sixteen or seventeen, and set all the houses on fire, but did not 
meddle with the women or children. 

By the time the men got to the shore again with the pinnace, our men 
began to appear; they came dropping in, not in two bodies as they went, 
bat strag<^ling here and there in si|ch a manner, that a small force of 
resolute men mi$rht have cut them all off. But the dread of them was 
upon the whole country ; and the men were surprised, and so fright- 
ened, that I believe a hundred of them would have fl'd at the siglit of 
but five of our men ; nor in all this terrible action was there a man that 
made any considerable defence; they were so surprised between the ter- 
ror of the fire and the sudden attack of our men in the dark, that they 
knew not which way to turn themselves ; for if they fled one way they 
were met by one party, if back again by another; so that they were 
every where knocked down ; nor did any of our men receive the least 
hurt, except one that sprained his foot, and another that liad one of Im 
hands burned. 

I was every angry with my nephew, the cisptain, and, indeed, with all 
the men, in my mind, but with him in particular, as well for his acting 
so out of his duty, as commander of the ship, and having the charge of 
the voyage upon him, as in his prompting, rather than cooling, the rage 
of his blind men, in so bloody and cruel an enterprise. My nephew an- 
swered me very respectfully, but told me that when he saw the body of 
the poor seaman whom they had murdered in so cruel and barbarous a 
manner, he was not master of himself, neither could he govern his pas- 
sion ; he owned he should not have done so as he was commander of the 
ship ; but as he was a man, and nature moved him, he could not bear it. 
As for the rest of the men, they were not subject to me at all, and they 
knew it well enon$?h ; so tliey look no notice of my dislike. 

The next day we set sail, so we never heard any more of it. Our men 
differed in the account of the number they had killed; but accordmgto 
the best of their accounts, put all together, they killed or destroyed about 
one hundred and fifty people, men, women, and children, and left not a 
house standing in the town. As for the poor fellow Tom Jeffry, as he was 
quite dead (for his throat was so cut that his head was half off), it wonid 
do him no service to bring him away ; so they only took him down from 
the tree, where he was hanging by one hand. 

However just our men thought this action, I was against them in it, and 
I always, after I hat time, told them God would blast the voyage; fori 
looked upon ail the blood they shed that night to be murder in them : for 
Ihougb it is true that they had killed Tom ^e£fry, yet Jeffry was the ag- 



OF ROBmSON G&USOE. 289 

gre^or, had broken the truce, and had violated or debanched a yoang 
woman of theirs, who came down to them innocently, and on the faith of. 
the public capitulation. 

The boatswain defen^d this qnarrel when we were afterwards on 
board. He said it was true that we seemed to break the truce, but really 
had not; and that the war was begun the night before by the natives them- 
selves, who had shot at us, and killed one of our men without any just 
provocation; so that as we were in a capacity to fight them now, we 
might also be in a capacity to do ourselves justice upon them in an extra- 
ordinary manner; that though the poor man had taken a little liberty with 
the wench, he ought not to have been niurdered, and ttiat in such a villa- 
nous manner; and that they did nothing but what was just, and what the 
laws of God allowed to be done to murderers. 

One would think this should have been enough to have warned us 
against going on shore amongst heathens and barbarians : but it is impos- 
sible to make mankind wise but at their own expense; and their expe- 
rience seems to he always of most use to them when it is dearest bought. 

We were now bound to the gulf of Persia, and from thence to the coast 
of Coromandel, only to touch at Surat : but the chief of the supercargo's 
design lay at the bay of Bengal ; where, if he missed his business out- 
ward bound, he was to go up to China, and return to the coast as he came 
home. 

The first disaster that befell us was in the gulf of Persia, where five of 
our men venturing on shore on the Arabian side of the gulf, were sur- 
rounded by the Arabians, and either all killed, or carried away into 
slavery ; the rest of the boat's crew were not able to rescue them, and had 
but just time to get off their boat. I began to upbraid them with the just 
retribution of Heaven in this case : but the boatswain very warmly told 
me, he thought I went farther vi my censures than I could show any 
warrant for in Scripture; and referred to Luke xiii. 4. where our Saviour 
intimates that those men on whom the tower of Siloam fell were not shi- 
ners above all the Galileans ; but that which put me to silence in the case 
was, that not one of these five men who were now lost were of those who 
went on shore to the massacre of Madagascar, so I always called it, though 
our men could not bear to hear the word massacre with any patience. 

But my frequent preaching to them on this subject had worse conse- 
quences than I expected ; and the boatswain, who had been the head of 
the attempt, came up boldly to me one time, and told me he found that I 
brought that affair continually upon the stage ; that I made unjust reflec- 
tions upon it, and had used the men very ill on that account, and himself 
ill particular ; that as I was but a passenger, and had no command in the 
ship, or concern in the voyage, they were not obliged to bear it; that they 
did not know but I might have some ill design in my head, and perhaps 
to call them to an account for it when they came to England ; and that, 
therefore, unless I would resolve to have done with it, and also not to 
concern myself any farther with him, or any of his affairs, he would 
leave the ship; for he did not tliink it was safe to sail with me among 
them. 

I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and then told him that 
I confessed I had all along opposed the massacre of Madagascar, and that 

19 



f-" 



iOO LI^ AND ABVENTURES 

I had, on all occasions spoken my mind freely abont it, though not more 
upon him than any of the rest ; that as to having no command in the 
ship, that was true J nor did I exercise any authority, only took the li- 
berty of speaking my mind in thipgs which publicly concerned us all ; 
and what concern I had in the voyage was none of his business ; that I 
iras a considerable owner iit the ship; in that claim, I conceived I had a 
right to speak even fartlier than I had done, and would not be accountable 
to him or any one else ; and began to be a little warm with him. He 
made but little reply to me at that time, and I thought the affoir had been 
over. We were at this time in the road at Bengal ; and befaig willing to 
see the place, I went on shore with the supercargo, in the ship's boat, to 
divert myself; and towards evening was preparing to go on board, when 
one of the men came to me, and told me he would not have me trouble 
myself to come down to the boat, for they had orders not to carry me on 
board any more. Any one may guess what a surprise I was in at so in- 
solent a message ; and I asked the man who bade him deliver that mes- 
sage to me ? He told me, the cockswain. I said no more to the fellow, 
but bade him let them know he had delivered his message, and that I had 
given him no answer to it. 

I immediately went and found out the supercargo, and told him the 
story; adding, what I presently foresaw, that there would be a mutiny 
in the ship; and entreated him to go immediately on board the ship in an 
Indian boat, and acquaint the captain of it. But I might have spared 
this intelligence, for before I had spoken to him on shore the matter was 
effected on board. The boatswain, the gunner, the carpenter, and all the 
inferior officers, as soon as I was gone off in the boat, came up, and de- 
sired to speak with the captain; and- there the boatswain, making a long 
harangue, and repeating all he had said to me, told the captain, in a few 
words, that as I was now gone peaceably on shore, they were loath to 
nse any violence wiih me, which, if I had not gone on shore, they would 
otherwise have done, to oblige me to have gone ; they therefore thought 
fit to tell him, that as they shipped themselves to serve in the ship nnder 
his conmiand, they would perform it well and foitlifhliy ; but if I would 
not quit the ship, or the captain oblige me to qait it, they would all leave 
the ship, and sail no farther with him ; and at that word all^ he turned 
his face toward the mainmast, which was, it seems, tlie signal agreed on 
between them, at which all the seamen, being got together there, eried 
out, One and all ! one and all ! 

My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, and of great presence of 
mind; and though he was surprised, you may be sure, at the thing, yet 
he told them calmly that he would consider of the matter; but that he 
could do nothing in it till he had spoken to me about it. He used some 
arguments with them to show them the unreasonableness and injustice 
of the thing : but it was all in vain ; they swore, and shook hands ronnd 
before his*" face, that they would all go on shore, unless he would engage 
to them not to suffer me to come any more on board the ship. 

This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obligation to me, and 
did not know how I might take it : so he began to talk smartly to them ; 
told them that I was a very considerable owner of thoship, and that, in 
justiOCi be could not put me out of my own house; that this was* next 



■^ 



Of ROBmSON CRUSOE. ^f 

door to serving me as the famous pirate Kidd had done, who made a ma < 
tiny in the ship, set the captain on shore on an unlnhahited island, and 
ran away witli the ship; that let them go into what ship they would, if 
ever ttiey came to England again it would cost them very dear; that the 
ship was mine, and that he could not put me out of it; and that he would 
rather lose the ship and the voyage too than disoblige me so much ; so 
they might do as they pleased : however, he would go on shore and talk 
with me, and invited the boatswain to go with him, and perhaps they 
might accommodate the matter with me. But they all rejected the pro- 

r[>sal, and said they would have nothing to do with me any more; and if 
came on board, they would all go on shore. **Well," said the captain, 
** if you are all of Ms mind, let me go on shore and talk with him.'* 
So away he came to me with this account, a little after the message 
had been brought to me from thq cockswain. 

I was very glad to see my nephew, I must confess ; for I was not with- 
out apprehensions that they would confine him by violence, set sail, and 
run away with the ship; and then I had been stripped naked in a remote 
country, having nothing to help myself; in short, I had been hi a worse 
caae than when I was alone in the island. But they had not come to that 
length, it see;pns, to my satisfaction; and when my nephew told me what 
they had said to him, and how they had sworn and shook hands that they 
would, one and all, leave the ship if I was suffered to come on board, I 
told him he should not he concerned at it at all, for I would stay on 
shore : I only desired he would take care and send me all my necessary 
things onshore, and leave me a sufficient sum of money, and I would find 
my way to England as well as I could. 

This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew, but there was no way 
to help it but to comply ; so, in short, he went on board the ship again, 
and satisfied the men that his uncle had yielded to their importunity, and 
bad sent for his goods from on board the ship ; so that the matter was 
over in a few hours, the men returned to their duty, and I began to con- 
sider what course I should steer. 

I was now alone in the most remote part of the world, as I think I may 
call it, for I was near three thousand leagues by sea farther off i^om Eng- 
tand, than I was at my island ; only, it is true, I might travel here by 
land over the Great Mogul's country to Surat, might go from thence to 
Bassora by sea, up the gulf of Persia, and take the way of the caravans, 
over the Desert of Arabia, to Aleppo and Scanderoon ; flrom thence by sea 
again to Italy, and so overland into France ; and this put together might 
at least be a fliU diameter of the globe, or more. 

I had another way before me, which was to wait for some English 
ships, which were coming to Bengal ft-om Achin, on the island of Suma- 
tra, and get passage on board them for England. But as I came hither 
wiUiout any concern whh the English East India Company, so it would 
be difficult to go fh)m hence without their licence, unless with great fa- 
vour of the captains of the ships, or the company's factors ; and to both I 
was an utter stranger. 

Here I had the mortification to see the ship set sail without me ; a treats 
ment I think a man in my circumstances scarce ever met with, except 
from pUrates runnmg away with a ship and setting those that would not 



^2 LUTE AND ADVENtURfiS 

agree with their villany on shore. Indeed this was next door to it, both 
ways ; however, my nephew left me two servants, or rather, one compa- 
nion and one servant; the first was clerk to the purser, whom he en- 
gaged to go with Qie, and the other was his own servant. I took me also 
a good lodging in the house of an Englishwoman, where several mer- 
chants lodged, some French, two Italians, or rather Jews, and one Eng- 
lishman ; here I was handsomely enough enteriained : and that I might 
not be said to mn rashly upon anything, I stayed here above nine months 
considering what course to take, and how to manage myself. I had some 
English goods with me of value, and a considerable sum of money ; my 
nepliew furnishing me with a thousand pieces^f-eight, and a letter of 
credit for more, if I had occasion, that I might not be straitened, whatever 
might happen. 

I quickly disposed of my goods to advantage; and, as I originally in- 
tended, I bought here some very good diamonds, which of all other things^ 
were the most proper for me in my present circumstances, because- I 
could always carry my whole estate about nie. 

After a long stay here, and many proposals made for my return to Eng- 
gland, but none falling out to my mind, tlie English merchant who lodged 
with me, and whom I had contracted an intimate acquaintance with, 
came to me one morning : '^ Countryman," says he, *' I haVe a project to 
communicate to you, which, as it suits with my thoughts, may, tor aught 
I know, suit with yours also, when you shall have thoroughly considered 
it. Here we are posted, you by accident, and I by my own choice, in a 
part of the world very remote from our own country ; but it is In a coun- 
try where, by us who understand trade and business, a great deal of 
money is to be got. If you will put one thousand pounds to my one tliou- 
sand pounds, we will hire a ship here, the first we can get to our minds ; 
you shall be captain, I'll be merchant, and we'll go a trading voyage to 
China ; for what should we stand still fur ? The whole world is in mo- 
tion, rolling round and round ; all the creatures of God, heavenly bodies 
and earthly, are busy and di4igent ; why should we be idle ? There are 
no drones in the world but men : why should we be of that number ? " 

I liked this proposal very well; and the more because it seemed to be 
expressed with so much good will, and in so friendly a manner. I will 
not say but that I might, by my loose, unhinged circumstances, be the 
fitter to embrace a proposal for trade, or indeed anything else ; whereas, 
otherwise, trade was none of my element. However, I might perhaps say 
with some truth, that if trade was not my element, rambhng was; and no 
proposal for seeing any part of the world, which I had never seen before, 
could possibly come amiss to me. 

It was, however, some time before we could get a ship to our minds, 
and when we had got a vessel, it was not easy to get English sailors ; that 
is to say, so many as were necessary to govern the voyage and manage 
the sailors which we should pick up there. After some time we got a 
mate, a boatswain, and a gunner, English ; a Dutch carpenter, and three 
foremast men. With tliese we found we could do well enough, having 
Indian seamen, such as they were, to make up. 

There are so many travellers who have wrote the history of then: voyages 
and travels this way, that it would be very little diversion to anybody to 



OF ROBINSON CAUSOE. 905 

give a long acoonnt of the places we went to, and the people who inhabit 
there ; these things I leave to others, and refer the reader to those joamals 
and travels of Englishmen, of which many I find are pablished, and more 
proDiLsed every day ; it is enough for me to tell you that we made tliis 
voyage to Achin, in the island of Sumatra, and from thence to Siam, where 
we exchanged some of our wares fur opium and some arrack ; the first a 
commodity which bears a great price among the Chinese, and which, at 
that time, was much wanted there. In a word, we went up to Suskan, 
made a very great voyage, were eight months out, and returned to Ben- 
gal ; and I was very well satisfied with my adventure. I observe that our 
people in England often admire how officers, which the Company send 
into India, and the merchants which generalfy stay there, get such very 
great estates as they do, and sometimes come home worth sixty or se- 
venty thousand pounds at a time ; but it is no wonder, or at least we shall 
see so much farther into it, wheiv we consider the innumerable ports and 
I^aces where they have a free commerce, that it will be none ; and much 
less will it be so when we consider that at those places and ports where 
the English ships come, there is such great and constant demands for tlie 
growth of all other countries, (hat there is a certain vent for the returns, 
as wdll as a market abroad for the goods carried out. * 

In short, we made a very good voyage, and I got so much money by 
my first adventure, and such an insight into the method of getting more, 
that had I been twenty years younger I should have been tempted to have 
stayed here, and sought no farther for making my fortune; but what was* 
all this to a man upwards of threescore, that was rich enough, and came 
abroad more in obedience to a restless desire of seeing the world than a 
covetous desire of gaining by it ? And, indeed, I think it is witli great 
justice I now call it restless desire, for it was so. When I was at home, 
I was restless to go abroad ; and when I was abroad, I was restless to be 
at home. I say, what was this gain to me ? I was rich enough ahready, 
nor had I any uneasy desires about getting more money; and therefore 
the profit of the voyage to me was of no great force for the prompting me 
forward to farther undertakings ; henee I thought that by this voyage I 
had made no progress at all, because I was come back, as I might call it, 
to the place from whence I came, as to a home : whereas my eye, which, 
like that which Solomon speaks of, was never satisfied with seeing, was 
still more desirous of wandering and seeing. I was come into a part of 
the world which I was never in before, and that part, in particular, 
which I had heard much of, and was resolved to see as much of it as I 
could : and then I thought I might say I had seen all the world that wa^ 
worth seein r. 

But my fellow traveller and I had different notions : I do not name 
this to insist on my own, for I acknowledge his were the most just, and 
the most suited to the^nd of a merchant's life ; who, when he is abroad 
up<m adventures, it is his wisdom to stick to that, as the best thing for him, 
which he is like to get the most money by. My new friend kept himself 
to the nature of the thing, and would have been content to have gone 
like a carrier's horse, always to the same inn, backward and forward, 
provided he could, as he called it, find his account in it^ On the other 
hand, mine was the notion of a mad rambluig boy, that never cares to see 



^4 LIFE AND ▲DYENTUIUBS 

a thing twice over. Bat this was not all : I had a kind of impatience 
upon me to be nearer home^ and yet the most unsettled resolution ima- 
ginable which way to go. In the interval of these consultations, my 
friend, who was always upon the search for business, propoi>ed another 
voyage to me among the Spice Islands, and to bring home a loading of 
cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts; places, indeed, where the 
Dutch trade, but islands belonging partly to the Spaniards; though we 
went not so far, but to some other, where they have not the whole 
power, as they have at Batavia, Ceylon, etc. 

We were not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief difficulty 
was in bringing me to come into it t however, at last, nothing else of- 
fering, and finding that really stirring about and trading, the profit being 
so great^ and, as I may say, certain, had more pleasure in it, and had 
more satisfaction to my mind, than sitting still, which, to me especially, 
was the nnhappiest part of life, I resolved on this voyage too, which we 
made very successfully, touching at Borneo, and several islands whose 
names I do not remember, and came home in about five months. We 
sold our spice, which was chiefly cloves and some nutmegs, to the Persiaa 
merchants, who carried them away to the gulf ; and making near five of 
one, we really got a great deal of money. 

My friend, when we made up this account, smiled at me : ''Well now,*' 
said he, with a sort of agreeable insult upon my indolent temper, '' is not 
this better than walking about here, like a man of nothing to do, and 
.q[>ending our time in staring at the nonsense and ignorance of the Pagans?*' 
— " Why truly," says I, " my friend, I think it is, and I begin to be a 
convert to the principles of merchandising; but I must tell yon," said I, 
''by the way, you do not know what I am doing ; for if I once conquer 
my backwardness, and embark heartily, as old as I am I shall harass yoa 
up and down the world till I tire you ; for I shall pursue it so eagerly, t 
shall never let you lie still." 

But, to be short with my speculations, a little while after this there 
came in a Dutch ship from Batavia ; she was a coaster, not an European 
trader, of about two hundred tons burden; the men, as they pretended, 
having been so sickly that the captain had not hands enough to go to sea 
with, he lay by at Bengal ; and having, it seems, got money enough, or 
being willing, for other reasons, to go for Europe, he gave public notice 
he would sell his ship. This came to my ears before my new partner 
heard of it, and I had a great mind to buy it; so I went to him, and told 
him of it. He considered awhile, for he was no rash man neither; but 
musing some time he replied, ^' She is a little too big; but, however, we 
will have her." Accordingly, we bought the ship, and agreeing with 
the master, we paid for her, and took possession. When we had done 
80, we resolved to entertain the men, if we could, to join them with those 
we had, for the pursuing our business ; but, on a sudden, they having 
received, not their wages, but their share of the money, as we afterwards 
learned, not one of tliem was to be found ; we inquired much about 
them, and at length were told that they were all gone together by land to 
Agra, the city of the great Mogul's residence, and from thence to travel 
to Surat, and go by sea to the gulf of Persia. 

Nothing had so much troubled me a good while as that I should miss 



or E(»iNSON causo£. »s 

the opportanity of going with them; for sach a ramble* I thoaght, and in 
such company as would both have guarded and diverted me, would have 
suited mightily with my great design ; and I should have both seen tht. 
world and gone homeward too : but I was much better saUsfied a few 
days after, when t came to know what sort of fellows they were; for, in 
short, their history was, that this man they called captain was the gunner 
only, not the commander; that they had been a trading voyage, in which 
they had been attacked on shore by some of the Malays, who bad killed 
the captain and three of his men; and that, after the captain was killed, 
theSe men, eleven in number, had resolved to run away with (he ship, 
which they did, and brought her to bengal, leaving the mate and five 
men more on shore; of whom hereafter. 

Well, let them get the ship how they would, we came honestly by her^ 
as we thought, though we did not, I confess, examine into things so 
exactly as we ought ; for we never inquired anything of the seamen, who 
would certainly have {altered in their account, contradicted one another, 
and perhaps contradicted themselves; or one how or other we should 
have had reason to have suspected them ; but the man showed us a bill of 
sale for the ship, to one Emmanuel Giostershoven, or some such name, for 
I suppose it was all a forgery, and called himself by that name, and we 
could not contradict him; and withal having no suspicion of the thing we 
went through with our bargain. 

We picked up some more English sailors here after this, and some 
Dutch; and now we resolved for a second voyage to the south-east for 
cloves, etc. that is to say, among the Philippine and Molucca isles; and, 
in short, not to fill up this part of my story with trifles, when what is to 
come is so remarkable, I spent, from first to last, six years in thisoountry| 
trading from port to port, backward and forward, and with very good 
success, and was now the last year with my new partner, going in th« 
ship above mentioned, on a voyage to China, but designing first to Siam^ 
to buy rice. 

In this voyage, being by contrary winds obliged to beat up and down 
a great while in the straits of Malacca, and among the islands, we Welre 
no sooner got clear of those difficult seas than we found our ship had 
sprung a leak, and we were not able, by all our industry, to find out 
where it was. This forced us to make some port, and my partner, who 
knew the country better than I did, directed the captain to put into the 
river of Cambodia; for I had made the English mate, one Mr. Thompson, 
captain, not being willing to take the charge of the ship upon myself. 
This river lies on the north side of the great bay or gulf which goes up to 
Siam. While we were here, and going often on shore for refreshment, 
there comes to me one day an Englishman, and he was, it seems, a 
gunner's mate on board an English East India ship whi^h rode in die 
same river, at or near the city of Cambodia; what brought him hither we 
knew not; but he comes to me, and speaking English, ''Sir, "says he, 
' ' you are a stranger to me and I to you, but I have something to tell you 
that very nearly concerns you." 

I looked steadfastly at him a good while, and thought at first I had 
known him, but I did not. ''If it very nearly concerns me," saidl, 
and not yourself, what moves you to tell it to me?"— "I am moved/' 



2M LIFE AND ADVENTDRES 

says he, '^by the imminent danger you are in, and, for aught I see, yon 
have no knowledge of it."— ''I know no danger I am in," says I, ^^bat 
that my ship is leaky, and I cannot find it out; bat I intend to lay her 
aground to-morrow, to see if I can find it." — **Bat,Sir," says he, **leaky 
or not leaky, find it or not find it, you will be wiser than to lay your ship 
on shore te-morrow, when you hear what I have to say to you : do you 
fcnow. Sir," said he, '^the town of Cambodia lies about fifteen leagues up 
this river? and there are two large English ships about five leagues on this 
side, and three Dutch." — "Well," said I, "and what is that to me?" — 
''Why, Sir," said he, "is it for a man that is upon such adventures as you 
are, to come into a port, and not examine first what ships there are there, 
and whether he is able to deal with them? I suppose you do not think 
you are a match for them?" I was amused very much at his discourse, 
but not amazed at it, for I could not conceive what he meant; and I 
turned short upon him, and said, "Sir, I wish you would explain your- 
self; I cannot imagine what reason I have to b« afraid of any of the 
Company's ships, or Dutch ships : I am no interloper ; what can they 
have to say to me?" He looked like a man half angry and half pleased, 
and pausing awhile, but smiling, "Well, Sir,'* says he, "if you think 
yourself secure, you must take your chance; I am sorry your fate should 
bUiid you agauist good advice i but assure yourself, if you do not put to 
sea immediately, you will the very next tide be attacked by five longboats 
full of men, and perhaps, if you are taken you will be hanged for a pirate, 
and the particulars be examined afterwards. I thought. Sir," added he, 
"I should have met with a belter reception than this, for doing you a 
piece of service of such importance."— "I can never be ungrateful," said 
I, "for any service, or to any man that offers me any kindness; but it is 
past my comprehension what they should have such a design upon me 
for : however, since you say there is no time to be lost, and that there is 
some villanous design on hand against me, I will go on board this minute, 
and put to sea immediately, if my men can stop the leak, or if we can 
swim without stopping it ; but, Sir," said I, "shall I go away ignorant of 
the cause of all this? Can you give me no further light into it?"— "I can 
tell you but part of the story. Sir," says he ; "but I have a Dutch seaman 
here with me, and I believe I could persuade him to tell you the rest; but 
there is scarce time for it : but the short of the story is this, the first part 
of which I suppose you know well enough, viz. that you was with this 
ship at Sumatra ; that there your captain was murdered by the Malays, 
with three of his men; and that you, or some of those that were on board 
with you, ran away with the ship, and are since turned pirates. This is 
the sum of the story, and you will all be seized as pirates, I can assure 
you, and executed with very little ceremony ; for you know merchant 
ships show but little law to pirates, if they get them into their power." — 
"Now you speak plain English," said I, "and I thank you; and though 
I know nothing that we have done like what you talk of, for I am sure 
we came honestly and fairly by the ship; yet seeing mch a work is doing, 
as you say, and that you seem to mean honestly, I will be upon my guard." 
—"Nay, Sir," says he, "do not talk of being upon your guard; the best 
defence is, to be out of the danger; if you have any regard for your life, 
and the lives of all your men, put to sea, without fail, at high water; and. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 297 

as you have a vfho\e tide before jou, you will be gone too far out before 
they can come down ; for Ihey will come away at high water, and as they 
have twenty miles to come, you will get near two hours of them by the 
difference of the tide, not reckoning the length of the way; besides, as 
they are only boats, and not ships, they will not venture to follow you far 
out to sea, especially if it blows." — "Well," said I, "you have l»een very 
kind in this; what shall I do for you to make you amends?" — "Sir,*' says 
he, "you may not be willing to make me any amends, because you may 
not be convinced of the fruih of it : I will make an offer to you; I have 

nineteen months' pay due to me on board the ship , which I came 

out of England in; and the Dutchman that is with me has seven mouths 
pay due to him; if you will make good our pay to us, we will go along 
with you : if you find nothing more in it, we will desire no more; but if 
we do convince you that w^e have saved your lives, and the ship, and the 
lives of all the men in her, we will leave the rest to you." 

I consented to this readily, and went immediately on board, and the 
two men with me. As soon as I came to the ship's side, my partner, 
who was on board, came out on the quarter-deck, and called to me with 
a great deal of joy, "O ho! O ho! we have stopped the leak! we have 
stopped the leak !"— "Say you so?" said I, "thank God; but weigh anchor 
then immediately." — ^Weigh!" says he; "what do you mean by that? 
What is the matter?" — "Ask no questions," said I; "but all hands to 
work, and weigh without losing a minute." He was surprised; but, 
however, he called the captain, and he immediately ordered the anchor 
to be got up ; and though the tide was not quite down, yet a little land- 
breeze blowing, we stood out to sea. Then I called him into the cabin, 
and told him the story ; and we called in the men, and they told us the rest 
of it : but as it took up a great deal of time, before we had done a seaman 
comes to the cabin door, and called out to us that the captain bade him 
teH us we were chased. "Chased!" says I; "by what?" — "By five 
sloops, or boats," says the fellow, "full of men."— "Very well," said I, 
"then it is apparent there is something in it." In the next place I ordered 
all our men to be called up, and told them there was a design to seize the 
ship, and to take us for pirates, and asked them if they would standby us, 
and by one another; the men answered cheerfully, one and all, that they 
would live and die with us. Then I asked the captain what way he 
thought best for us to manage a fight with them; for resist them I was 
resolved we would, and that to the last drop. He said readily that the 
way was to keep them off with our great shot as long as we could, and 
then to fire at them with our small arms, to keep them from boarding us; 
but when neitlier of these would do any longer, we stiould retire to our 
close quarters ; perhaps they had not materials to break open our bulk- 
heads, or get in upon us. 

The gunner had, in the meantime, orders to bring two guns to bear 
fore and aft, out of the steerage, to clear the deck, and load them with 
musket bullets iind small pieces of old iron, and what came next to hand ; 
and thus we made ready for fight : but all this while we kept out to sea, 
with wind enough, and could see the boats at a distance, being five large 
longboats, following us with all the sail they could make. 

Two of those boats (which by our glasses we could see were English) 



S8S LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

oatflfllled the rest, vrere near two leagues ahead of them, and gained upon 
OS considerably, so that we found they would come up with us ; upon 
which we fired a gun without ball, to intimate that they should bring to : 
and we put out a flag of truce, as a signal for parley; but they came 
crowding after us, till they came within shot, when we took in our white 
flag, they having made no answer to it, and hung out a red flag, and 
fired at them with a shot. Notwithstanding this, they came on till they 
were near enough to call to tliem wilh a speaking trumpet which we 
had on board; so we called to them, and bade them keep off, at their 
peril. 

tt was all one; they crowded after us, and endeavoured to come under 
our stern, so as to board us on our quarter ; upon which, seeing they were 
resolute for mischief, and depended upon the strength that followed them, 
I ordered to bring the ship to, so that they lay upon our broadside; when 
immediately we fired hye guns at them, one of which had been levelled so 
true as to carry away the stern of the hindermost boat, and bring them to 
the necessity of taking down their sail, and running all to the head of the 
boat to keep her from sinking; so she lay by, and had enough of it; hot 
seeing the foremost boat crowd on after us, we made ready (o fire at her 
in particular. While this was doing, one of the three boats that was 
behind, being forwarder than the other two, made up to the boat which 
we had disabled) to relieve her, and we could see her take out the men : 
we called again to the foremost boat, and offered a truce, to parley again, 
and to know what her business was with us; but had no answer, only she 
crowded close under our stern. Upon this our gunner, who was a very 
dexterous fellow, ran out his two chase guns, and fired again at her , bat 
the shot missing, the men in the boat shouted, waved their caps, and 
came on; but the gunner, getting quickly ready again, fired among them 
a second time, one shot of which, though it missed the boat itself, yet fell 
in among the men, and we could easily see had done a great deal of mis- 
chief among them$ but we took no notice of that, wore the ship again, 
and brought our quarter to bear upon them, and firing three guns more, 
we found the boat was almost split to pieces ; in particular, her rudder and 
a piece of her stern was shot quite away; so they handed her sail immedi- 
ately, and were m great disorder. But, to complete their misfortune, oar 
gunner let»fly two guns at them again; where he hit them we could not 
tell, but we found the boat was sinking, and some of the men already in 
the water : upon this I immediately manned out our pinnace, which we 
had kept close by our side, with orders to pick up some of the men, if they 
could, and save them from drowning, and immediately come on board the 
ship with them, because we saw the rest of the boats began to come up. 
Our men in the pinnace followed aheir orders, and took up three men, 
oneof whom was just drowning, and it was a good while before we could 
recover him. As soon as they were on board, we crowded all the sail we 
could make, and stood farther out to sea ; and we found that when the 
other three boats came up to the first, they gave over their chase. 

Being thus delivered from a danger, which, though I knew not the 
reason of it, yet seemed to be much greater than I apprehended, I resolv- 
ed that we should change our course, and not let any one know whither 
we were going t so we stood out to sea eastward, quite out of the course Of 



OF ROBIN80N GEU8(». M 

M European rtiipi, whether they were bound to GhfnA or any where elee» 
within ifae commerce of Earopean nations. , 

When we were at sea, we began to consalt with the two seamen^ and 
inquire what the meaning of all this should be ; and the Dutchman let ns 
into the secret at once, telling us that the fellow that sold us the ship, as 
we said^ was no more than a thief, that had run away with her. Then 
he told us how the captain, whose name too he told us, though I do not 
remember it now, was treacherously murdered by the natives on the 
ooaatof Malacca, with three of his men ; and that he, this Dutchftian, and 
four more, got into the woods, where they wandered about a great wliile, 
till at length be, in particular, in a miraculous manner, made his escape, 
and swam off to a Dutch ship, which, sailing near the shore in its way 
from China, had sent their boat on shore fbr fresh water; that he durst 
not come to that part of the shore where the boat was, but made shift in 
the night to take the water farther off, and swimming a great while, at 
last the ship's boat took him up. 

He then told us that he went to Batavia, where two of the seamen be- 
longing to the ship arrived, having deserted the rest m their travels, and 
gave an account that the fellow who had run away with the ship sold her 
at Bengal to a set of pirates, which were gone a cruising in her j and that 
they had already taken an English ship and two Dutch ships very richly 
laden. 

This latter part was found to concern us diaectly, though we knew it 
to be fiilse : yet, as my partner said very justly, if we had fallen into their 
hands, and they had had such a prepossession against us beforeluind, it had 
been in vain for us to have defended ourselves, or to hope for any good 
quarter at their hands; and especially considering that our accusers had 
been our judges, and that we could have expected nothing from them but 
What rage would have dictated, and an ungoverned passion have executed^ 
and therefore it was his opinion we should go directly back to Bengal^ 
from whence we came, without putting in at any port whatever ; because 
there we could give a good account of ourselves, could prove where we 
were when the ship put in, of whom we bought her, and the like; and, 
which was more than all the rest, if we were put upon the necessity of 
bringing it before the proper judges, we should be sure to have some jus* 
Uce, and not to be hanged first and judged afterwards. 

I was some time of my partner's opinion ; but after a little more serious 
thinking, I told him I thought it was a very great hazard for us to at- 
tempt reluming to Bengal, for that we were on the wrong side of the 
Btraits of Malacca, and that if the alarm was given, we should be sure to 
be waylaid on every side, as well by the Dutch at Batavia as the English 
elsewhere; tint if we should be taken, as it were,'*running away, we 
■bould even condemn ourselves, and there would want no more evidence 
to destroy us. I also asked the English sailor's opinion, who said he was 
of my mind, and that we should certainly be taken. This danger a little 
startled my partner, and all the ship's company, and we immediately re* 
solved to go away to the coast of Tonquin, and so on to the coast of China; 
and, pursuing the first design as to trade, find some way or other to dis- 
pose of the ship, and came back in some of the vessels of the country, 
toeh as we could get. This was approved of as the best method for our 



500 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

secnrity ; and accordingly we steered away N.N.E. keeping above fifty 
leagues off from the usual course to the eastward. This, however, pat 
use to some inconvenience ; for, first, the winds, when we came to that 
distance from the shore, seemed to be more steadily against us, blowing 
almost trade, as we call it, from the E. and E.N.E. so that we were a 
long while upon our voyage, and we were but ill provide) with victuals 
for so long a run ; and, which was still worse, there was some danger 
that those English and Dutch ships, whose boats pursued us, whereof some 
were bdbnd that way, might be got in'before us, and if not, some other 
ship bound to Chhia might have information of us from them, and pursue 
us with the same vigour. 

I must confess I was now very uneasy, and thought myself, including 
the late escape from the longboats, to have been in the most dangerous 
condition that ever I was in through my past life ; for whatever ill circum- 
stances I had been in, I was never pursued for a thief before ; nor had I 
ever done anything that merited the name of dishonest or fraudulent, 
much less thievish ; I had chiefly been my own enemy, or, as I may rightly 
say, I had been nobody's enemy but my own; but now I was embarr«'i&«ed 
in the worst condition imaginable ; for though I was perfectly innocent, I 
was in no condition to make that innocence appear; and if I had been 
taken, it had been under a supposed guHt of the worst kind. This made 
me very anxious to make an escape, thougli which way to do it I knew 
not, or what port or place we could go to. My partner seeing me thus 
dejected, thon^h he was the most concerned at first, began to encourage 
me, and describing to me the several ports of that coast, iold me he would 
put in on the coast of Cochin China, or the Bay of Tonquin, intending to 
go afterwards to Macao, a town once in possession of the Portuguese, 
and where still a great many European families resided ; and particularly 
the missionary priests usually went thither, in order to their going forward 
to China. 

Hither then we resolved to go; and accordingly, though after a tedious 
and irregular course, and very much straitened for provisions, we came 
within sight of the coast very early in the morning; and upon reflection 
on the past circumstances we were in, and the danger if we bad not es- 
caped, we resolved to put into a small river, which,however, had depth 
enough of water for us, ^nd to see if we could, either overland or by the 
ship's pinnace, come to know what ships were in any port thereabouts. 
This happy step was, indeed, our deliverance; for though we did not im- 
mediately see any European ships in the Bay of Tonquin, yet the next 
morning there came into the bay two Dutch ships; and a third, without 
any colours spread out, but which we believed to be a Dutchman, passed 
by at about two le^ues distance, steering for the coast of China ; and in 
in the afternoon went by two English ships steering the same course; and 
thus we thou)?ht we saw ourselves beset with enemies both one way and 
the other. The place we were in was wild and barbarous ; the people 
thieves, even by occupation or profession ; and though, it is truf\ we had 
not much to seek of them, and, except getting a few provisions, cared not 
how little we had to do with them, yet it was with much difficulty that we 
kept ourselves from being insulted by them several ways. We were In a 
small river of this country, within a few leagues of its utmost limits north- 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 501 

ward; and by oat boat we coasted north-east, to the point of land which 
opens the great bay of Tonquin ; and it was in this beating up along the 
shore that we discovered we were surrounded with enemies. The people 
we wt re among were the most barbarous of all the inhabitants of the coast^ 
having no correspondence with any other nation, and dealing only in fish 
and oil, and such gross commodities; and it may be particularly seen that 
they are the most barbarous of any of the inhabitants. Among other cus- 
toms, they .have this one, viz. that if any vessel has the misfortune to be 
shipwreoked upon their coast, they presently make the men all prisoners 
or slaves ; and it was not long before we found a piece of their kindness 
this way, on the occasion following. 

I have observed above, that our ship sprung a leak at sea, and that we 
could not find it out; and it happened that, as I have said, it was stopped 
unexpectedly, in the happy minute of our being to be seized by the Dutch 
and English ships in the bay of Siam; yet as we did not find the ship so 
perfectly tight and soimd as we desired, we resolved, while we were at 
this place, to lay her on shore, and take out what heavy things we had on 
boai^d, and clean her lH)ttom; and, if possible, to find out where the leaks 
were. Accordingly, having lii^htened the ship, and brought all our guns 
and other moveables to one side, we tried to bring her down, that we might 
come at her bottom ; but, on second thoughts, we did not care to lay her 
on dry ground, neither could we find out a proper place for it. 

The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with such a sight, 
came wondering down the shore to look at us ; and seeing the ship lie 
down OR one side in such a manner, and heeling in towards the shore, and 
not seeing our men, who were at work on her bottom with stages, and 
with their boats on the off side, they presently concluded that the ship was 
cast away, and lay so fast on the ground. On this supposition, they all 
came about us in two or three hours' time, with ten or twelve large boats, 
having some of them ei^ht, some ten men in a boat, intending, no doubt, 
to have come on board and plundered the ship ; and if they had found us 
there, to have carried us away for slaves to their king, or whatever they 
call hun, for we knew nothing of their governor. 

When they came up to the ship and began to row round her, they dis* 
covered us all hard at work on the outside of the ship's bottom and side, 
washing, and graving, and stopping as every seafaring man knows how. 
They stood for a while gazing at us, and we, who were a little surprised, 
could not imagine what their design was; but, being willing to be sure, 
we took this opportunity to get some of us into the ship, and others to 
hand down arms and ammunition to those that were at work to defend 
themselves with, if there should be occasion; and it was no more than 
need; for in less than a quarter of an hour's consultation, they agreed, it 
seems, that the ship was really a wreck; and that we were all at work 
endeavouring to save her, or ta save our Uves by the help of our boats ; 
and when we handed our arms into the boat, they concluded, by that mo- 
tion, that we were endeavouring to save some of our goods ; upon this 
they took it for granted we all belonged to them, and away they came 
directly upon our men, as if it had beien in a line of battle. 

Our men, seeing so many of them, began to be frightened, for we lay 
but in an ill posture to fight, and cried out to us to know what they 



M LIR AMD ABTENTnRiES 



sboold do. I immediately called to the men that worked upon the stagca, 
to slip them down, and get ap the side into the ship; and bade thoae in 
the boat to row roand, and come on board ; and those few who were on 
board worked with all the strength and hands we had, to bring the ship 
to rights; but, however, neither the men apon the stages nor tiKwe in the 
boats could do as they were ordered, before the Cochhi Chinese were upon 
them; and two of thdr boats boarded our longboat, and began to lay bold 
of the men as their prisoners. 

The first man they laid hold of was an English seamen, ^ stoat, strong 
fellow, who, having a musket in his hand, never offered to fire it, but laid 
it down in the boat, like a fool, as I thought; but he understood his bo- 
siness better than I could teach hhn ; for he grappled the Pagan, 'and 
ch'agged him by main force out of their boat into oars, where, taking him 
by the ears, he beat his head so against the boat's gunnel, that the fellow 
died in his hands; and, in the meantime, a Dutchman, who stood next, 
took up the musket, and with the but-end of it so kid about hon, that he 
knocked down five of them who attempted to enter the. boat. But this 
was doing little towards resisting thirty or forty men, who fearless be- 
cause ignorant of their danger, began to Ihrow themselves Into the long- 
boat, where we had but five men in all to defend it : but the following 
accident, which deserved our laughter, gave our men a complete victory. 

Our carpenter being prepared to grave the outside of the ship, as well 
as to pay the seams where he had calked her to stop the leaks, had got 
two kettles jost let down into the boat, one filled with boiling piteh, and 
the other with rosin, tallow, and oil, and such sluff as the shipwrights 
use for that work ; and the man that attended tlie earjpenter, had a great 
iron ladle in his hand, with whicli he supplied the men that were at 
work with the hot stuff. Two of the enemy's men entered the boat jost 
. where this feUow stood, being in the fore-sheets; he immediately sainted 
them with a ladle-full of the stuff, boilmg hot, which so burned and 
scalded them, being half naked, that they roared out like bulls, and, 
enraged with the fire, leaped both into the sea. The carpenter saw it, 
and cried oat, '^ Well done, Jack! give them some more of it:" and 
stepping forward himself, takes one of the mops, and dipping it in the 
pitch-pot, he and his man threw it among tliem so plentifully, that, in 
short, of all the men in the three boats there was not one Uiat escaped 
being scalded and burned with it, in a most frightful, pitiful manner, and 
made such a howling and crying, that I never heard a worse noise : for 
it is worth observing, that though pain naturally makes all people cry out, 
yet every nation has a particular way of exclamation, and makes noises 
as different trom one another as their speech. I cannot give the noise 
these creatures made a better name than howling, nor a name more 
proper to the tone of it; for I never heard anything more like the noise of 
the wolves, which, as I have said, I heard howl in the forest on the fhm- 
tiers of Languedoc. 

I was never better pleased with a victory in my life ; not only as it was 
a perfect surprise to me, and that our danger was imnunent before, hot 
as we got this victory without any bloodshed, except of that man the 
feUow killed with his naked hands, and which I was very much con- 
eevned at ; for I was sick of kilimg such poor savage wretches, even thoogb 



61? ROBINSON CRUSOE. 50J 

it was in my own defence ; knowing they came on errands which they 
thought just, and knew no better; and that Ihough it may be a jast thing, 
because necessary (for there is no necessary wickedness in nature), yet 
I thought it was a sad life, when we must be always obliged to be killing 
our fellow creatures to preserve ourselves ; and, indeed, I think so still ; 
and I would even now suffer a great deal, rather than I would take away 
the life even of the worst person injuring me; and I believe all considering 
people who know the value of life would be of my opinion, if they entered 
seriously into the consideration of it. 

But to return to my story : — ^AU the while this was doing, my partner 
and I^ who managed the rest of the men on board, had with great dex- 
terity brought the ship almost to rights, and having got the guns into 
their places again, the gunner called to me to bid our boat get out of 
the way, for he would let fly among them. I called back again to him, 
and bid him not offer to fire, for the carpenter would do the work with- 
out him; but bid him heat another pitch-kettle, which our cook, who was 
on board, took care of : but the enemy was so terrified with what they 
had met with in their first attack, that they would not come on again ; 
and some of them who were farthest off, seeing the ship swim, as it were, 
upright, began, as we suppose, to see their mistake, and give over the 
enterprise, finding it was not as they expected. Thus we got clear of 
this merry fight ; and having got some rice, and some roots and bread, 
with about sixteen hogs, on board, two days before, we resolved to stay 
here no longer, but go forward, whatever came of it; for we made no 
doubt but we should be surrounded the next day with rogues enough, 
perhaps more than our pitch-kettle would dispose of for us. We there- 
fore got all our things on board the same evening, and the next morning 
were ready to sail : in the meantime, lying at anchor at some distance 
fk'om the shore, we were not so much concerned, being now in a fighting 
posture, as well as in a sailing posture, if any enemy had presented. The 
next day, having finished our work within board, and finding our ship 
was perfectly healed of all her leaks, we set sail. We would have gone 
into the bay of Tonquin, for we wanted to inform ourselves of what wab 
to be known concerning the Dutch ships that had been there; but we 
durst not stand in there, because we had seen several ships go in, as we 
supposed, but a little before; so we kept on N. £. towards the island of 
Formosa, as much afraid of being seen by a Dutch or English merchant 
$hip,as a Dutch or English merchant ship in the Mediterranean is of an 
Algerine man of war. 

When we were thus got to sea, we kept on N. E. as if we would go to the 
Manillas or the Philippine islands ; and this we did that we might not fall 
into the Vay of any of the European ships , and then we steered north, 
till we came to the latitude of ^ deg. 30 min. by which means we made 
the island Formosa directly, where we came to an anchor, in order to get 
water and fresh provisions, which the' people there, who are very cour- 
teous and civil in their manners, supplied us with willingly, ani dealt very 
fairly and punctually with us in all their agreements and bargains; which 
is what we did not find among other people, and may be owing to the 
remains of Christianity which was once planted here by a Dutch mission- 
ary of Protestants, and is a testimony of what I have often observed^ viz. 



904 LIFE AND At>V£NTURIiS 

that the Christian religion always civilizes the people and reforms their 
manners, where il is received, whether it works saving effects upon them 
or no. 

From thence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China at an 
equal distance, till we knew we were beyond ail the ports of China where 
onr European ships usually come ; beiu^ resolved, if possible, not to fall 
into «uiy of their hands, especially in this country ; where, as our circum- 
stances were, we could not fail of being entirely ruined. 

Being now come to the latitude of iMrty degrees, we resolved to put 
into the first trading port we should come at ; and standing in for the 
shore, a boat came off two leagues to us with an old Portuguese pilot on 
board, who, knowing us to be an European ship, came to offer his ser- 
vice, which, indeed, we were glad of, and took him on board; upon which, 
withont asking us whither we would go, he dismissed the boat he came 
in, and sent it back. 

I though it was now so much in our choice to make the old man carry 
ns whither we would, that I began to talk to him about carrying us to the 
gulf of Nanquin, which is the most northern part of the coast of China. 
The old man said he knew the gulf of Nanquin very well; but smiling, 
asked ns what we would do there ? I told him we would sell our cargo 
and purchase China wares, calicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks, etc., 
and so would return by the same course we came. He told us our best 
port had been to have put in at Macao, where we could not have failed 
of a market for our opium to our satisfaction, and might for our money 
have purchased all sorts of China goods as cheap as we could at Nanquin. 

Not being able to put the old man out of his talk, of which he was very 
opiniated or conceited, I told him we were gentlemen as well as mer- 
chants, and that we had a mind to go and see the great city of Pekin, and 
the famous court of the monarch of China. ^^ Why then," says the old 
man, ^^ you should go to Ningpo, where, by the river which runs into the 
sea tliere, you may go up within five leagues of the great canal. This 
canal is a navigable stream, which goes through the heart of that vast em- 
pire of China, crosses all the rivers, passes some considerable hills by the 
help of sluices and gates, and goes up to the city of Pekin, being in length 
near two himdred and seventy leagues." 

'* Well," said I, ^^ Signior Portuguese, but that is not our business now ; 
the great question is, if you can carry us up to the city of Nanquin. from 
whence we can travel to Pekin afterwards?" He said he could do so 
very well, and that there was a great Dutch ship gone up that way just 
before. This gave me a little shock, for a Dutch ship was now our ter- 
ror, and we had much rather have met the devil, at least if he had not 
come in too frightful a figure ; and we depended upon it that a Dutch ship 
would be our destruction, for we were in no condition to fight them ; all 
the ships they trade with into those parts being of great burden, and of 
much greater force than we were^ 

The old man found me a little confused, and under some concern, when 
he named a Dutch ship; and said to me, '^Sir, you need be under no ap- 
prehensions of the Dutch ; I suppose they are not now at war with your 
nation?"— .'*No," said I, **that's true; but I know not what lil)erties men 
may take when they are out of the reach of the laws of their own country/ 



t9 



Ot ROBINJiON CRUSOfi. 505 

*-^*Why," says he, "you are no pirates; what n^d you fear? They will 
not meddle with peaceable merchants, sure." 

If I had any blood in my body that did not fly ap into my face at that 
word, it was hindered by some stop in the yessels appointed by nature 
to circalate it, for it put me into the greatest disorder and confusion ima- 
ginable : nor was it possible for me to conceal it so, but the old man easily 
perceived it. 

^^Sir," says he, ''I find yon are in some disorder in yonr thoughts at 
my talk; pray be pleased to go which way you think fit, and depend upon 
it, ru do you all the service I can." — "Why, Seignior," said I, '*it is true, 
1 am a little unsettled in my resolution at this time, whither to go in 
particular ; and I am something more so for what yon said about pirates. 
I hope there are no pirates in these seas; we are but in an ill condition to 
meet with them, for you see we have but a small force, and are but very 
weakly manned."— "O, Sir," says he, "don't be concerned, I do not know 
that there have been any pirates in these seas these fifteen years, except 
one, which was seen, as I hear, in ihe bay of Siam, about a month since ; 
bat you may be assured she is gone to the southward ; nor was she a ship 
of any great force, or fit for the work : she was not built for a privateer, 
but was run away with by a reprobate crew that was on board, after the 
captain and some of his men had been murdered by the Malayans, at or 
near the island of Sumatra." — "What," said I, seeming to know nothing 
of the matter, "did they murder the captain ?"— "No," said he, "I don't 
understand that they mnrdered him ; but as they afterwards ran away 
with the ship, it is generally believed that they betrayed him into the 
hands of the Malayans, who did murder him, and perhaps they procured 
them to doit."— "Why then," said I, "they deserve death as much as if 
they had done it themselves." — "Nay," says the old man, "they do deserve 
it; and they will certainly have it, if they light ufjon any English or Dutch 
ship; for they have all agreed together, that if they meet that rogue they'll 
give him no quarter." — "But," said I to him, "you say the pirate is gone 
out of these seas ; how can they meet with him then ?" — "Why that's true," 
says he, "they do say so; but he was, as I tell you, in the bay of Siam, in 
the river Cambodia ; and was discovered there by some Dutchmen who 
belonged to the ship, and who were left on shore when they ran away 
with her; and some English and Dutch traders being in the river, they 
were within a little of taking him : nay," said he, "if the foremost boats 
had been wall seconded by the rest, they had certainly taken him ; but he, 
finding only two boats within reach of him, tacked about, and fired at 
those two, and disabled them before the others came up, and then stand- 
ing off to sea, the others were no( able to follow, and so he got away; but 
they have all so exact a description of the ship, that they will be sure to 
know her ; and wherever they find her they have vowed to give no quarter 
either to the captain or seamen, but to hang them all up at the yardarm." 
— "What'." said I, "will they execute them right or wrong; hang them 
first, and judge them afterwards."— -"O Sir," says the old pilot, "there is 
no need to make a formal business of it with such rogues as those ; let them 
tie them back to back, and set them a diving, /tis no more than they 
deserve." 
I knew I had my old man fast on board, and that he could do no harm, 

90 




m LIFE AND ADVEfmmCS 

M that I tomed short upon him : ^^Well now, Seignior/' stkl I, '^tliis it 
the very reason why I would have you carry us up to Nanqiiin, and not 
put back to ItfacaOy or to any other part of the country where the English 
or Dutcii ships come ; for be it known to you, Seignior, those captains of 
the English and Dutch ships are a parcel of rash, prmti, itisaleni ieUows^ 
that neither know what belongs to justice, •r tiow to behave themelves 
jte the laws of God and nature direct ; but being proud of their wfikOf 
and not nnderstandiiig tlieir power, they would act iht mordereffs to 

Sunlsh robbers; would take upon them to insult men IMsely aeeosed, and 
etermuie thejn guilty without due inquiry : and perhaps I nay fite t» 
liring some of them to aceoimt for it, when they may be tmiglit 
justice is to be ^^culed ; and that no man oi^ht to be treated as a 
nal till some evidence may be had of the crime, wad Uiat be is tlie 

With tills I told him that this was the very ship tiiey tt'aeb^, 
him a full aocount of the skirmish we bad wkh itieir bstli^ and 
foolishly and cowardly they beliaved. I told him aU llwalory of 
buying the ship, and how tbe Dulchnan served us. I told kirn ite m» 
Ions I had to believe tlie story of killing the muster by the Maiayaas was 
true, as also tbe running away with tlie ship ; but it was all a fiction Of 
their own to suggest thai the men had turned piratesi and they oogiit la 
have been sura it was so before tltey had ventured to aitaek us by ant- 
pise, and oblige us to resist them; adding, that they i^onld have the 
Mood of those men, whom we killed there in justdeiende, to aiitwer for. 
The old man was amazed at this relatioa, and told us w« were very 
mnch in the right to go away to the north ; and that if be miglrt advisa 
•s, it should be to sell the ship in China, which we might very widl do, 
end bay or build another in the coimtry; ^^and," said he, 'Hbough yoa 
will not get so good a ship, yet you may get one able enough to carry yon 
ttid all your foods back again to Bengal or any wliere else." I told him 
I would take hii advice when I came to any port wliere I conld find a 
ship for my turn, or get any customer to buy this. He replied, I shooM 
meet with customers enoiigh for the ship a4 Natiqinn, and that a Chinese 
jnnk would serve me very well to go back again; and that be would pro- 
Qore me people both to buy one and sell tlie other. ^^Well, bat, Sei- 
gnior," sjud I, ^'as you say they know the ship so weU, I may, ^leriiapa, if 
Iloilow your mewures, be mstrumental to bring soaae honest innooent 
men into a terrible broil, and perhaps to be murdered in cold Mood; fer 
wherever they find the ship, they will prove the goilt upon Ihe men, liy 
proving this was the strip; and so irmooent men may probably be over- 
powered and murdered."— ''Why," says tlie okl man, 'TU ted oat a way 
to prevent that also; for as I know all those coamiaMden yoo apeak of 
very well, and sbaU see Uiem all as they pass by, I will be sure to set them 
to rights in the thing, and let them know tliat they had been so much hi 
tiie wrong ; that though the people who were on board «t iint might nm 
away with the sliip, yet it was not true that they had turned pirates ; and 
that, in particular, these were not the men that first went off ^^h the 

ship, but innoeently bought her for their trade; and i am persuaded they 
will so far believe me, as at least to act more cautiously for the time to 

come." 

While these thuigs were passittg between us, by way of discoMW^ we 



m BOBmsoii ceusqb. m 



dkectif §&r Naiuinin, and ia uhoai Hiirtetti dift aiii 
!• ffmndior, JtChe south-west point of the greaigulf ofManqoni; wbew, 
kf Ihe way, I came by aecident to nDderaiand that iwo Btitdi aliips were 
MiiaClieleiigA iMfore me, and that I slietrid certainly fall inlo their hatida. 
leanMlledjBy f>artiier afaio la this exigeney, and be was as maeh at « 
Ins ni I was« and wontd very giadly hove been safe on shore almost any- 
wlieve : iMywever, I was not In sikAi fien4«Jdiy neither, but I asked the 
M filot if there was no ercek or barbeor whieh I might pnt into and 
funne nny business wMi the Chinese privately, and be in no danger ^ 
tfw enemy. He told me, ff I wonldsail to the southward abont ferty^ 
turn fsafiKS, there mm a little port ealM Quinchang, where the ftubers 
•f 4lie mission nsttally landod Irom Maeao, on their progren 4o tetdi the 
Ghi^stian religion to die €Mneee/and where no European ships ever jpnt 
in<; and If I thoc^ to frat In there, I might eonstder what farther ^oiyrse 
!• taiR when I was on shore. He confessed, he said, it was not a place 
fnr Hiorehants, except that at some eertain times they had a kind of a Ihir 
Uttre^ when fhe merchant from Japan came oTer tliiiher lo boy Clhiaese 
aneMnaMiise • 

We all agreed to go biick to this plaee ; the name of the port, as he 
Mlled4t, I may perhaps spell wrong, for I do not particnlar^y remember 
M, hating lost this, together with the names of many other plaees set 
in a Htlle pocknt book, whieh was«polled by the water by an acci- 
li^ hut tMs I remember, that fhe Oiinese or Japanese merchants we 
enrMtpanded with called it by a diffetent tiame from that wliidi our Por- 
tiipMief»ilotgave4t,«nd prommnoed it as aboYC, <^inchang. 

M w« were imammous in oor resolntidn to go to this plaoe^ we weigh- 
•i <be MKl day, having only gone twice on shore where m*e were, lo get 
insh wafer | on both whidi occasions the people of the country were 
tery chrtt to iis, and tirooght ns abnndanee ef thmgs to sell to ns, I mean 
•f provisions, phtnls, roots, lea, rice, and some fowls ; bat nothing wi^ 
out money. 

We name to Ihe ^fher port (the wind being contrary) not till five days; 
lot it was very moeh totmraatisfaetion ; and I wasjoyfid, and Imay say 
IhMkii!, when I aet niy#DOt<on ^ore, resohing, aitd my partner too, 
theft if 4t was pOssMite to dispose ef nnrseives and effects any other way, 
ikimigk ntH everyway to our satisfaelion, we would never set one foot on 
bOMd that unhappy vessel mot« ; andjindeed, I mast acknowledge, that 
«f all the eireamslanees of life 4hat ever I had any cKperienoe of, nothhig 
WuHfM mankhid eo cnmple^ely miserable as that of being in eenslant lear. 
Well does the Scripture say, ^'The fear of man brings a snare;*' It is a 
Wh ofdea^, and die mind is'soentkely oppres^dby it, that His eapsihle 
nf "AO relwi. 

Hor-didit feit of Its nsoal operations tipon the fency, by heighteidng 
every danger; representing the English aiid Dutch captains to tie men in- 
4Nq^iMe of hearing reason, or of distingnishing iietween honest men and 
Mlies;'or between a story calculated for our own turn, made out of no- 
fmaigj on purpose to deceive, and a nme genuine account of our whole 
tayage, progress, and design ; for we migiit many ways have convmced 
any reasonable creatures that we were not pirates ; the goods we had on 
bsird^'die^aaniie wesiaered^ onr ficanUyahowing onrselves, and entering 



^ 



508 LIf'E AND ADVENTURES 

into sach and soeh ports ; tnd even oor very manner , the force we had^ 
the namber of men, the few arms, the little ammunition^ short provi- 
sions ; ail these would have served to convince any men that we were no 
(urates. The opium and other goods we had on board would make it ap- 
pear the ship had been at Bengal. The Dutchmen, who, it was said, had 
the names of all the men that were in the ship, might easily see that we 
were a mixture of English, Portuguese, and Indians, and hut two Dutch- 
men on board. These, and many other particular circumslances, might 
have made it evident to the understanding of any commander, whose hands 
we might fall into, liiat we were no pirates. But fear, that blind, useless 
pa^ion, worked another way, and threw us into the vapours ; it bewil- 
dered our understandings, and set the imagination at work to form a 
thousand terrible things that perhaps might never happen. We first 
supposed, as indeed every body had related to us, that the seamen on 
board the English and Dutch ships, but especially the Dutch^ were so 
enraged at the name of a pirate, and especially at our beating off their 
boats and escaping, that they would not give themselves leave to in- 
quire whether we were pirates or no ; but would execute us off hand, 
as we call it, without giving us any room for a defence. We reflected 
that there really was so much apparent evidence before them, that 
they would scarce inquire after any more; as first, that the ship was 
certainly the same, and that some of the seamen among them knew 
her, and had been on board her; and, secondly, that when we had 
inlelligence at the river of Cambodia that they were coming down 
to examine us, we fought their boals and fled ; so that we made no 
doubt but they were as fully satisfied of our being pirates, as we were sa- 
tisfied of the contrary ; and, as I often said, I know not but I should have 
been apt to have taken those circumstances for evidence, if the tables were 
turned, and my case was theirs; and have made no scruple of cutting all 
the crew to pieces, witlioot believing, or perhaps considering what they 
might have to offer in their defence. 

But let that be how it will, these were our apprehensions ; and both 
my partner and I scarce slept a night without dreaming of halters and 
yardarms, that is to say, gibbets; of fighting, and being taken; of killing, 
and being killed : and one night I was in such a fury m my dream, fan- 
cying the Dutchmen had boarded us, and I was knocking one of tlieir 
seamen down, that I struck my double fist against the side of the cabin 
I lay in with such a force as wounded my hand grievously, broke my 
knuckles, and cut and bruised the flesh, so that it awdced me out of 
my sleep. 

Another apprehension I had was, the cruel usage we might meet with 
from them if we fell into their hands : then the story of Amboyna came 
into my head, and how the Dutch might perhaps torture us, as they did 
our countrymen there, and make some of our men, by extremity of tor- 
ture, confess those crimes they never were guilty of, or own themselves 
and all of us to be pirates, and so they would put us to death with a for- 
mal appearance of justice; and that they might be templed to do this for 
the gain of our ship and cargo, which was worth four or five thousand 
pouiKls, put all together. 

These things tormented me, and my partoer too, night and day; nor 



OF ROBmSON CRUSOE. 509 

did vre consider that the captains of ships have no authority to act thas ^ 
and if we had surrendered prisoners to them, they could not answer the 
destroying us, or torturing us, but would he accountable for it when they 
came to their own country; this, I say. gave roe no satisfaction; for if 
they were to act thus with us, what advantage would it be to us that they 
should be called to an account for it? or if we were first to be murdered, 
what satisfaction would it be to us to have them punished when they 
came home? 

I cannot refrain taking notice here what reflections I now had upon the 
vast variety of my particular circumstances; how hard I thought it was, 
that I, who had spent forty years in a life of continual difficullies, and 
was at last come, as it were, to the port or haven which all men drive at, 
viz. to have rest and plenty, should be a volunteer in new sorrows by my 
own unhappy choice; and that I, who had escaped so many dangers in 
my youth, should now come to be hanged in my old a^, and in so re- 
mote a place, for a crime which I was not in the least inclined to, much 
less guilty of. 

After these thoughts, something of religion would come in ; and I 
should be considering that this seemed to me to be a disposition of imme- 
diate Providence, and I ou^ht to look upon it and submit to it as such ; 
that although I was innocent as lo men, I was far from being innocent as 
to my Maker ; and I ought to look in and examine what other crimes in 
my life were most obvious to me, and for which Providence may justly 
inflict this punishment as a retribution; and that I ought to submit to 
this, just as I would to a shipwreck, if it had pleased God to have brought 
such a disaster upon me. 

In its turn, natural courage would sometimes take its place^ and then I 
would be talking myself up to vigorous resolutions ; that I would not be 
taken to be barbarously used by a parcel of merciless wretches in cold 
blood ; that it were much better to have fallen into the hands of the sa- 
vages, though I was sure they would feast upon me when they had taken 
me, than those who would perhaps glut their rage upon me by inhuman 
tortures and barbarities ; that in the case of the savages, I always resolved 
to die fighting to the last gasp, and why should T not do so now, seeing it 
was much more dreadful, to me at least, to think of falling into these 
men's hands, than ever it was to think of being eaten by men ? for the sa- 
vages, give them their due, would not eat a man till he was killed and 
dead, but that these men had many arts beyond the cruelty of death. 
Whenever these thoughts prevailed, I was sure to put myself into a kind 
of fever with the agitation of a supposed fight; my blood would boil, and 
my eyes sparkle, as if I was engaged, and I always resolved to take no 
quarter at their hands; but, even at last, if I could resist no longer, I 
would blow up the ship and all that was in her, and leave them but little 
booty to boast of. 

The greater weight the anxieties and perplexities of these things were 
toonr thoughts while we were at sea, the greater was our satisfaction 
when we saw ourselves on shore ; and my partner told nie he dreamed 
that he had a very heavy load upon his back, which he yxas to carry up 
a Irill, and found that he was not able to stand longer under it ; but that 
the Portuguese pilot came and took it off his back, and the hill disnppt arcd , 



»«• un Asm Jkffnxmma» 

IbefrauMi belMre bim ap^tt-'mg all HiMyirth wd plaid ; atflnlf it 
86; tbey were all like meo wlio bad a load tabeii ofllbeir ba^^ fiir 
my part, I had a weight taken off from any heart tbat it was 119I M^ ai^ 
longer to bear j and, as I said above, we resolted to g» 00 alMa t» mm 
in that aliip. When we came on abere^ tbe old pilots wba waa new «tt 
friend, got ns a lodging and a warehonae for our good^^ whidi, bf tbe 
way, waa mncb the aame 3 it was a l^tk hooae ot hnly wilb • Mrgar 
boase adjoining to it, ail built with canes, and palisadoed vomad irilb 
large eanea, to keep out pilfertag tbievetf , of whtcb, it i^eito> tbcM viere 
not a iew in that eoantry ; liowevar,, ttid inagiairaies attdrwed oa 9 tbtle 
gnardy and we bad a soldier with a kind of 4»lberd» or bitff pike^ wba 
atood sentinel at our door $ to whom we allowed a pint of riol^ aod a 
litlle pieoe of moneys about tbo value of tbreepenee, per day> ao Ibat oar 
goods were kept very safe. 

The fab*^ or mart , usnally kept in tbis placoi bad been aver soma lima: 
bowevM, we found tbat tbere were three or foar janka ib tbe mmr^ wmk 
two Japanners, I mean ships from Japan, with goods wbicb tbay bal 
bought in China, and were liOt gane aiTay, bavmg aoitie JapaneaaiAer- 
abantfl oo abore. 

Tbe first tbmg our old Portagnese fnlot did fot us was, to 9BI aaae^uabib* 
ad with three missionary Romish priests who were in the to#a^ aa^ tsba 
bad been there some time conTer&ing tbe people ta Gbristianiiy; but wt 
thought tbey made but poor wofli of it, aad made tbem bal aanry Gbfiap* 
tiana when ihey had done ; however , tliat waa none of oar boaineaik Qnt 
of theae was a Frenchman, whom tbey called Father Stmen^ aaoUalr wia 
a Portuguese, and the third a Genoese; but Fathflrgiaaan wi»aaarieaa% 
eagy in bis manner and very agreeable oampany \ iba other twa ilere 
more reserved, seemed rigid and a a attiro , and applied 




work they came about, viz. to talk with, alid iaainaalatbantdirei ansM 
tlie iflbabiiants^ wherever Ihey had opporlaDity. We cAnt aU aMJ 
drank with those men; and tboagti, I must conleaa, the eonvoniaat^ as 
tbey call it, of the Chinese to OhrisUanity is so for from tbe true 
aiott required to bring heaiben people to tbe faith of Cbfialf tbat it 
to amount to little more than letting tbem know the name of GbiMf aad 
aay some prayers to the Yirgm Mary and her Son, in a tongaa Wbieb Ibaf 
understand not, and to cross fbemselvoi, and tbe like| yelHilHlalba 
nonfeased tbat tlie religionists, wham we eall missioftanea^ beta a 
belief tbat these people will be saved, and that they are tbe insbUi 
of it| aad, on this acoount^ tliey undficgo not only tbefbtigaaaffba 
Toyaga^ and tbe hazards of living in saeh places^ biitolleaiiaMadartb 
itself, with the most violent tortures, for the sake of this w^tkr 

But to return to my story : This Frenah priest,: Fatber iSimois waa ap^ 
pointed^ it seems, by order of the ohiaf of tbe misfion^ to ga apt 10 Pakiai^ 
the royal seat of the Chinese emperor, and waited only for aaoftbev prkMl^ 
who waa ordered to come to him from Macao, to go ailoag with bim; ind 
we scarce ever met together but he was inviting me to go tbat jpuraaf ) 
telling me how he would sliow me all tbe glorious things of that migMr 
empire, and, among the rest, the greatesi^t city intheworU) ^^aiitf/^ 
said he, '^that year London and oar Park p«t4a(plberaaeiielbea|^ 
to.'' This was the city <^ Pekm. whlcb> .1 «aafoia» le nff #mbI# Mi ib- 



OF EMINSON GEUSOE: M 

fituMf Ml of iieople; Iml as I looked on (bote things igrith difffinrnt eyes 
firoin elber meiiy so I nhall give my opinioa of them in a few wonfo, when 
I eoiBO m the coarse of my travels to speak more particalarly of tfa«m. 

Bttt, first, I come to my friar or missionary. Dining with him one day, 
4iid being very merry together, I showed some little inclination to go 
-with bimf and he pressed me and my partner very hard, and with a great 
aiany persuasiona, to ocmsent. ^^ Why, Father Simon," says my partnefi 
^^ 3hoiild you desire om* company so mneh ? yon know we are lierellea, 
•nd yon do net love as, nor cannot keep us company with any pleasnre.** 
•*^'^0!" says he, '^you may perliaps be good GatholiGs in time; my ho* 
aiiiess here is to convert heathens, and who knows Imt I may convert yon 
tO0?"^« Very well. Father, " said I ;'* so yon will preach to us all tho 
way?" — "I will not be troublesome to you,'' says he; *' oar religion 
does not divest us of good manners : besides, we are here like country- 
men ; and so we are, compared to the place we are in i and if you are Ho* 
gonotSy and I a Githolie, we may all be Christians at Ust; it least we are 
all geutlemeny and we may converse so, without hemg uneasy to one 
another." I liked this part of his discourse very well, and il began to 
pot me in mind of my priest that I had left in the Brazils ; bat this Father 
Simm did not oome up to his character by a great deal ; kf though 
father Simon had no appearance of a criminal levity in him neither, yet 
he had not that fund of Christian zeal, strict piety, and sincere affsetion 
la raligieny tliat my other good eeclesifistic had. 

But In leave him a little, though he never left us, nor soliciting us to go 
with him; we had something else befinre us at first, ibr we had all this 
wksle our ship and our merchandise to dispose of, and we began to be 
iiery doubtful what we should do, for we were now in a place of very 
IHtle buskiess; and once I was about to veniure to sail lor the river oif 
Kilam, and the city of Nanquin ; but Providence seemed now more 
visibly, as I thought, than ever, to concern itself in our affairs | and I wis 
eneenraged, from this very time, to think I should, one way or other, get 
out of this entangled curcumstanoe, and be brought home to my own 
country egain, tliough I luid not the least view of the manner. Provf- 
4rnoe^ I say, began here lo clear up our way a little; and, the first thing 
that offered was, tliat our old Portuguese pilot bronght a Japan mer* 
ehmt to us, who inquired what goods we had ; and in the first place, he 
bought all our opium, and gave us a very good price for it, paying us In 
gold by weight, seme in small pieces of their own coin, and some In 
small wedges, of about ten or eleven ounces each. White we were deal- 
ing with him for our opmm, it came into my head that he might perhaps 
deal iir the ship teo^ and I ordered the interpreter to propose it to him; 
he shrunk op his shoulders at it, when it was first proposed to him; but 
■i a lew days after be came to me, with one of the missionary priests for 
hie interprfsier, and toM me he had a proposal to make lo me, which 
was this i-whe hid boagU a great quantity of goods of us, wlicn he had 
Botbongfats of proposals made to him of buying the sliip land that, there* 
fore, be bad mt money enoogh to pay for tlie ship; but if I would let 
the same men who were in the ship navigate her, lie would hire the ship 
to go to Japan ; and would send them from thenee to the Philippine is* 
wids with another loading, which be would pay the freight of before they 



512 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

went from Japan; and that at their return be would bay the ship. I 
began to listen to his proposal, and so eager did my head still ran upon 
rambling, that I coald not bat begin to entertain a notion of going myself 
with him, and so to sail from the Philippine islands away to the South 
Seas.; accordingly I asked the Japanese merchant if he would not hire us 
to ^he Philippine islands, and discharge us there. He said no, he could 
not do that, for then he could not have the return of his cargo ; but he 
would discharge us in Japan, at the ship's return. Well, still I was for 
taking him at that proposal, and going myself; but my partner, wiser 
than myself, persuaded me from it, representing the dangers, as well of 
the seas as of the Japanese, who are a false, cniel, and treacherous 
people ; likewise those of the Spaniards at the Philippines, more false, 
cruel, and treacherous than they. 

But to bring this long turn of our affairs to a conclusion : the first thing 
we had to do was, to consult with the captain of the ship, and with his 
men, and know if they were willing to go to Japan : and while I was 
doing this, the young man whom my nephew had left with me as my 
companion for my travels came to me, and told me that he thought that 
voyage promised very fair, and that there was a great prospect of advan- 
tage, and he would be very glad if I undertook it ; but that if I %vould 
not, and would give him leave, he would go as a merchant, or how I 
pleased to order him ; that if ever he came to England, and I was there 
and alive, he would render me a faithful account of his success, which 
should be as much mine as I pleased. I was really loath to part with 
bim ; but considering the prospect of advantage, which really was consi- 
derable, and that he was a young fellow as likely to do well in it as any 
I knew, I inclined to let him go; but I told him I would consult my part- 
ner, and give him an answer the next day. My partner and I discoursed 
about it, and my partner made a most generous offer : ^^ You know it has 
been an unlucky ship," said he, ^^ and we both resolve not to go to sea in 
it again : if your steward (so he called my man) will venture the voyage, I 
will-leave my share of the vessel to him, and let him make the best of it; 
and if w.e live to meet in England, and he meets with snccess abroad, he 
shall account for one half of the profits of the ship's freight to ns; the 
other shall be his own." 

If my partner, who was no way concerned with my young man, made 
him.such an offer, I could do no less than offer him the same : and all the 
ship's company being willing to go with him, we made over half the 
ship to him in property, and took a writing from him, obliging him to 
account for the other ; and away he went to Japan. The Japan merchant 
proved a very punctual honest man to him ; protected him at Japan, and 
got him a licence to come on shore, which the Europeans in general have 
not lately obtained; paid him his freight very punctually; sent him to the 
Philippines, loaded . with Japan and China wares, and a supercargo of 
their own, who, traffieking with the Spaniards, brought back European 
goods again, and a great quantity of cloves and other spices; and there 
he was not only paid his freight very well, and at a very good price, but 
not being willing to sell the ship then, the merchant furnished him goods 
on his own account; and with some money, and some spices of his own 
which he brought with him, he went back to the Manillas to (he Spaniards, 



OF ROBmSON CRUSOE. 5«5 

^here he sold bis cargo very well. Here, having got a good acquaintance 
at Manilla, he got his ship made a free ship; and the governor of Manilla 
hired him to go to Acapulco in America, on the coast of Mexico, and gave 
him a licence to land there, and to travel to Mexico, and to pass in any 
Spanish ship to Europe with all his men. He made the voyage to Acapulco 
very happily, and there he sold his ship ; and having there also obtained 
allowance to travel by land to Porto Bello, he found means, some how or 
other, to get to Jamaica, with all his treasure; and about eight years af- 
ter came to England exceeding rich, of which I shall take notice in its 
place ; in the meantime, I rettirn to our particular affairs. 

Being now to part with the ship and ship's company, it came before 
us, of course, to consider what recompense we should give to the two 
men that gave us such timely notice of the design against us in the river 
Cambodia. The truth in as, they had done us a very considerable service, 
and deserved well at our hands ; though, by the way, they were a couple 
of rogues too ; for as they believed the story of our being pirates, and that 
we had really run away with the ship, they came down to us not only to 
betray the design that was formed against us, but to go to sea with us as 
pirates ; and one of them confessed afterwards that nothing else but the 
hopes of going a roguing brought him to do it : however, the service 
tliey did us was not the less ; and therefore, as I had promised to be grate- 
ful to them, I first ordered the money to be paid them, which they said 
was due (o them on board their respective ships; over and above that, I 
gave each of them a small sum of money in gold, which contented them 
very well ; then I made the Englishman gunner in the ship, the gunner 
being now made second mate and purser ; the Dutchman I made boat- 
swain; so they were both very well pleased, and proved very serviceable, 
being both able seamen, and very stout fellows. 

We were now on sliore in China : if I thought myself banished and 
remote from my own country at Bengal, where I had many ways to get 
home for my money, what could I think of myself now, when I was got 
about a thousand leagues farther off from home, and perfectly destitute 
of all manner or prospect of return? AH we had for it was this, that in 
about four months time there was to be another fair at the place where 
we were, and then we might be able to purchase all sorts of the maua- 
foclcires of the country, and withal might possibly find some Chinese 
junks or vessels from Tonquin, that would be to be sold, and wotild carry 
as and our goods whither we pleased. This I liked very well, and 
nteolved to wait ; besides, as our particular persons were t^% obnoxtons, 
i> if any English or Dutch ships came thither, perhaps we might have an 
opportunity to load our goods, and get passage to some other place in 
India nearer home. Upon these hopes we resolved to continue here ; but, 
to divert ourselves, we took two or three journeys into the country. 
First, we went ten days journey to the city of Nanquin, a city well worth 
seeing, indeed ; they say it has a million of people in it : it is regoiarly 
built, the streets all exactly straight, and cross one another in direct lines, 
which gives the figure of it great advantage. But when I come to com- 
pare the miserable people of these conntries with ours, their fabrics, their 
manner of living, their government, their religion, their wealth, and 
tlieir glory, as some call it, I must confess that I scarcely think it worth 



mgifiSe to neotioD tbem bore. It is tery olMorYalile^ tiuH w« wonte 
at Um gnwdeoTy the ricbeg, Uie pomp, tbe cerenionies, the govemmeiili 
tbe nanofaetiufs, the oommerce, aiul condod of llicse people; not tiiat 
jl ii to be wondered at, or, indeed, in the least lo lie regarded, bat tas^ 
eaose, baling a true notion of ihe barbarity of those oooniries, the ^ldi^ 
WIS and the ignorance that prevail there, we do not expect to find a«y 
aoch thing so for oIL Otherwise, what are their buildings to tbe 
and royal boildings of Europe ? What their trade to the nniversal 
jnerca of England, Holbind, France, and Spain? What are their eitica to 
oars, for wealth, strength, gaiety of apparel, rich famiUire, and infiniu 
variety? What are their ports, supplied with a few jonks and boiia, to 
onr navigation, our merchant fleets, our large and powerful navies? Our 
city of London has more trade than half their migbty empire onr Fncjish, 
Dutch, or Frenchman of war of eighty guns, would be aMe to fight a^ 
most all the shipping belonging to China : but tbe greatncas ^ tboir 
wealth, their trade, the power of their government, and the strength of 
their amies, may be a little surprising to ns, because, as I have saM, 
oonsidering them as a barbarous nation of Fagana^ littje better than a»^ 
vages, we did not expect such things among them : and this, indeed, is 
the advantage with which all their greatness and power is represenlod lo 
ns{ otherwise, it is in itself nothing at all; for wbal I have said of their 
ships may be said of their armies a^ troops; all the forces of llicir em<- 
ptre, though they were to bring two millions of men into the liehl togetlMr, 
would be able to do nothing but ruin tlie country, and star? e thsMelves^ 
if they were to besiege a strong town in FlandcK, or to fight a discipltaad 
army; one good line of German curassiers, w of French cavalry, migjit 
witlMUnd aH the horse of China; a million of their foot could not aland 
before one embattled body of our infantry, posted so as not to besttrromd^ 
Od» thoogh they were not to be one to twenty in number; nay, I do not 
boast if I say that thhrly thousand German or English foot, and ten 
thousand horse, well managed, could defeat all the fisroes of Cluna; 
90 of our fortified towns, and of the art of our engineers in aasaolthig 
^Bfcnding towns; there is not a fortified town in China conU hold out 
ooe monUi against tbe batteries and attacks of an European army; an4» 
at Uiesaaie time, all the aro^ies of China could never take anch a town as 
Dunkirkt provided it was not starved ; no, not in a ten years^ siege. Tbef 
have firearms, it is true, but they are awkward and unc^tam in their 
going off; and their powder has hot little strength. Their armies are 
badly disciplinedy and want skill to attack, or temper to retreat; andi^ 
therefore, I must confess, it seemed strange to me, when I came hona^ 
and heaid our people say such fine things of the power, glory, magas* 
fioence, atid trade of the Chinese; because, as for as I saw, tliey appeared 
to be a coniempUUe herd or crowd of ignorant sordid slaves, subfeettd 
io a government qnalified only to role soeh a people : and were not its 
distance inconceivably great from Moscovy, and the Muscovite empire in 
a mourner as rude, impotent, and ill governed as they, the Czar of Mus^ 
oovy might with ease drive tlieni all out of thdr country, and conquer 
them in one campaign j and had the czar ( who is now a growing pnnee) 
follea this way, instead of attacking the warlike SwedM, and equailf 
improved Umsdf in the art of war, as they say ha has done; and if 



or MCfvmsm crusos. m 

^ibtpomtn of Eorope bad envied or interrapted htm, lie ttifiti hf IMI 
tkne bare been emperor of China, instead of being lieaien by 1^ king of 
Sweden at Narva, when the latter was not one to giz in minnber. ill 
tfaeir ttrength and their ^randear, so their navigation, oommcree^ ani 
bMabamiry, are very iojperfect, compared to tlie same thinga hi £ufop6 : 
also in their knowledge, their learning, and in their skill in the seieneiai 
Ihey are either very awkward or defective, thoogh they have gflobii •# 
•pheroi, and a smattering of the mathematics, and think they know moft 
tban all the world hesidies} but they know little of the motions of tbo 
bcavenly bodies : and so grossly and absurdly ignorant are their comnion 
people, that when the sun is eclipsed, they think a great dragon has at* 
baoited it, and is going to ron away with it; and they lull a clattering with 
•11 the dnims and kettles in the country, to fright tlie monecor away, |ail 
M we do to hive a swarm of bees. 

As this is tSie only excursion of the kind which I have made In all Hkt 
•ooounts I have given of my travels, so I shall make tio more snob $ It II 
aono of my business, nor any part of my design ; but to give a« aecotuit of 
ny own adventures through a life of inimitable wanderings, and a loqg 
variety of dianges, which, perhaps, few that come after mo will havn 
beard the like of: I shall therefore say very little of all the mighty pteon; 
^ksert countries, and numerous people I have yet to pass through, moi^ 
tban relates to my own story, and which my concern among them wll 
make necessary. 

I was now, as near as I can oomfwte, In the heart of China, abont tMriy 
degrees north of the Ime, for we were returned liroffl Nanqnin 1 1 bad. 
indeed, a mind to see the oily of Pekin, which I had heard so much Wf 
and Father Simon importuned me daily to do it. At length his time of 
going away being set, and the oilier missionary who was to go with btak 
boing arrived from Macao, it was necessary that we sliould resolve either 
to go or not ^ so I referred it wholly to my partner, and left it wholly to 
ins choice, who at length resolved it in the afXhrmative, and we prepared 
lor our journey. We set out with very good advantage, as to finding tin 
way ( for we got leave to travel In the rethiue of one of their mandarina^ 
M kind of viceroy or principal magistrate in the province where they reside 
stfid who take great state upon tliem, travelling witli great abundance, and 
with great homage fnim tlie people; who are sometimes greatly ioi^ 
^^eiiihed by them, being obliged to furnish provisions lor them and aM 
Ihtir attendants in their journeys. That which I particularly observe^ 
m to Our ti'atelliog with his baggage, was this, that though wevecebrod 
mffieidnt provisions both far ourselves and our horses from ttie cooottf^ 
pa bolongtng to the niandarin, yet we were obliged to pay for every tlm^ 
Wtf had, after Ibe merket price of the couniry, and the mandarin's staWam 
#llleeled It duly from as ; so that our travelling in the retinue of tbonilni*' 
dariii, though it was a very great kindn<*ss to us, was not such a mighty 
/bvour in Uni, hut vras a great advantage to him, considering there were 
above thirty other people travelled in the same manner besides us, under 
Ibe protection of his retinue ; for the country furnished all the provieiom 
Ibr nothing to bin, and yet he took our money for them. 
. We were twenty *ftve days travelling to Pekin, through a country inft* 
iitaly popujkMK, bot I think badly cultivated } the husbandry, the eoooomf, 



$i0 UFE AMD ADTENTURES 

and the way of HTing miflorabley thoof^ they boast to much of ihe inda^ 
of the people; I say miserable, if compared with our own, bat not so to 
these, poor wretches, who know no other. The pride of the people is infi- 
nilely great, and exceeded by nothing hot their poverty, in some parts, 
which adds to that which I call thdr misery ; and I most needs think the 
naked savages of America live mach more happy than Uie poorer sort of 
these, because as they have nothing, so they desire nothing ; whereas these 
are preod and insolent, and m the main are in many parts mere be^ars 
and drudges ; their ostentation is inexpressible ; and, if they can, they love 
to keep moHiludes of servants or slaves, which is to the last degree ridicn* 
lous, as well as the contempt of all the world but themselves. 

I most confess, I travelled more pleasantly afterwards in the deserts and 
vast wildernesses of Grand Tartary than here, and yet the roads here are 
well paved and well kept, and very convenient for travellers : bat nothing 
was more awkward to me than to see such a haughty, imperious, insolent 
people, in the midst of the grossest simplicity and ignorance; and my friend 
Father Simon and I used to be very merry upon these occasions, to see 
the beggarly pride of these people : for example, coming by the house of 
a country gentleman, as Father Simon called him, about ten leagues off 
the city of Nanquin, we had first of all the honour to ride with (he master 
of the bouse about two miles; the state he rode in was a perfect Don 
Quixotism, being a mixture of pomp and poverty. His habit was very 
proper for a scaramouch, or merry andrew, being a dirty calico, with 
hanging sleeves, tassels, and cuts and slashes almost on every side; it 
covered a taffety vest, as greasy as a butcher's, and which testified that 
his honour must be a most exquisite sloven. His horse was but a poor, 
starved, hobbling creature, and he had two slaves followed him on foot 
to drive (he poor creature along; he had a whip in his hand, and he be- 
laboured the beast as fast about the head as his slaves did about the tail ; 
and thus he rode by us, with about ten or twelve servants, going from the 
city to his country seat, about half a league before us. We travelled on 
gently, but this figure of a gentleman rode away before us ; and as we 
stopped at a village alHHit an hour to refresh us, when we came by the 
country seat of this great man, we saw him in a little place before his 
door, eating a repast. It was a kind of a garden, but he was easy to be 
seen ; and we were given to understand that the more we looked at him 
the better he would be pleased. He sat under a tree, something like the 
palmetto, which effectually shaded him over the head, and on the south 
side; but under the tree was placed a large umbrella, which made that 
part look well enough; he sat lolling back in a great elbow chair, being a 
heavy corpulent man, and had his meat brought him by two women slaves; 
he had two more, one of which fed the squire with a spoon, and the other 
held the dish with one band, and scraped off what he let fall upon his 
worship's beard and (affety vest. 

Thus leaving the poor wretch to please himself with our looking at him, 
as If we admired his pomp, though we really pitied and contemned him, 
we pursued our journey ; only Father Simon had the curiosity to stay to 
inform himself what dainties the country justice had to feed on in all his 
state, which he had the honour to taste of, and which was, I think, a mess 
of boiled nee, with a great piece of garlic in it, and a little bag filled with 



Ot* ROBINSON CRUSOE. Sit 

green pepper, and another plant which they have there, something like 
oar ginger, but smelling like musk, and tasting like mustard ; all this was 
pat together, and a small piece of lean mutton boiled in it, and this was 
his worship's repast ; four or five servants more attended at a distance, 
who, we supposed, were to eat of the same after their master. 

As for our mandarin with whom we travelled, he was respected as a 
king, surrounded always with his gentlemen, and attended in all his 
appearances with such pomp that I saw little of him but at a distance ; but 
this I observed, that tliere was not a horse in his retinue but that carriers' 
packhorses in England seemed to me to look much belter ; though it was 
hard to judge rightly, for they were so covered with equipage, mantles, 
etc. that we could scarce see anything but their feet and their heads as 
they went along. 

I was now light-hearted, and all my trouble and perplexity that I have 
given an account of being over, I had no anxious thought about me, 
which made this Journey the pleasanter to me; nor ttad I any ill accident 
attended me, only in passing or fording a small river my horse fell, and 
made me free of the country, as they call it, that is to say, threw me in; 
the place was not deep, but it wetted me all over. I mention it because 
it spoiled my pocket book, wherein I had set down the names of several 
people and places which I had occasion to remember, and which not tak- 
ing doe care of, the leaves rotted, and the words were never after to be 
read, to my great loss as to the names of some of the places I touched at 
in this journey. 

At length we arrived at Pekin ; I had nobody with me but the youth 
whom my nephew the captain, had given me to attend me as a servant, 
and who proved very trusty and diligent ; and my partner had nobody 
with him but one servant, who was a kinsman. As for the Portuguese 
pilot, he being desirous to see the court, we bore his charges for his com- 
pany, and to use him as an interpreter, for he understood the language of 
the country, and spoke good French and a little English ; and, indeed, 
this old man was a must useful implement to us every where, for we had 
not been above a week at Pekin, when he came laughing, '* Ah, Seignior 
Inglese," says he, ^^ I have something to tell will make your heart glad.'* 
-*-'^ My heart glad," says I; *^ what can that be? I don't know anything 
in this country can either give me joy or grief to any great degree."— 
^^ Yes, yes," said the old man, in broken English, '^ make you glad, me 
sorry." — "Why," said I, "will it make you sorry?" — " Because," said 
he, " you have brought me here twenty-five days journey, and will leave 
me logo back alone; and which way shall I get to my port afterwards 
without a ship, without a horse, without pecune /" so he called money, 
being his broken Latin, of which he had abundance to make us merry 
with. In short, he told qs there was a great caravan of Muscovite and 
Polish merchants in the city, preparing to set out on their journey by 
land to Muscovy, within four or five weeks, and he was sure we would 
take the opportanity to go with them, and leave him behind, to go back 
alone. 

I confess I was greatly surprised with this good news, and had scarce 
power to speak to him for some time; but at last I turned to him. "Ifow 
do you know this?" said I : "are you sure it is true?"—** Yes, says he;"' 



M LIFE AND ABTENTURSS 

^*I met Ihu momiiig in the street an old acquaintance of Buoey an Ar« 
menian, who is among them ; he came last from Astracan, and was de* 
signing to go to Tonquin, where I formerly knew him, but has altered 
bis mind, and is now resolved to go with the caravan to Moscow, aad S0 
down the river Wolga lo Astracan."—" Well, Seignior/' says I, " do 
IM)t be uneasy about being left to go back alone; if this be a method for 
my return to England, it shall be your fault if you go back to Macao a| 
all." We then went to consult together what was to be done^ and I 
•skeil my partner what he thought of the pilot's news, and whether it wooU 
suit with his affairs? He told me he would do just as I would; for b6 
had settled all his affairs so well at Bengal, and left his efCt«ts in anch 
iood hands, that as we had made a good voyage here, if be could vest it 
in China silks, wrought and raw, such as might be worth the carria09| 
te would be content to go to England, and then make hjis voyage back to 
oengal by the Company's ships, 

lUving resolved upon tliis, we agreed that if our Portuguese pilot would 
go with HS we would bear his charges to Moscow, or to England, if bo 
Dloased; nor, indeed, were we to be esteemed over generous in that 
^tlier^ <f we had not rewarded him farther, the service he had done us 
tmag really worth more than that : for he had not only been a pilot ta m 
at sea, but be had been Uke a broker for us on shore ; aA4 his procnriiig 
Cm: OS the Japan mercliant was some hundreds of pounds in our pockets, 
$0 we consuiled together about it, and being willing lo gratify him, wtiicb 
was but doing him justice, and very willing also to have hkn with m 
Imdes, for be was a most necessary man on all occasional we agreed to 
^ve him a <|oantity of coined gold, w^iich, as^ I compote it, euae to aboii^ 
one hundred and seventy -five pounds sterling, between us, and to bear M 
hk €l»arfes, both for himself and horse, except only a hme to «airy Vb 
foods* Having settled this between ourselves, we called him to let hioi 
fadow what we bad resolved. I told him he had complained of oor being 
to let him go back alone, and I was now to tell him we were nuoived he 
ibonld not go back at all ; Uiat as we had reserved to go to Europe with 
Iheearavan, we resolved also he should go with os; and that weealM 
fciaoi to iinow bis mind. He shook his head, and said, it was a long 
jooniey, and be had no pecune to carry him thither, or to subsist himself 
when he eame there. We told him we believed it was so, and therefom 
we had resolved to do something for him that should let him tee bow 
sensible we were of the service he had done us, and also how agreeable 
be was to us; and tl^n I told him w^iat we had resdved to givehloi 
here, which he might lay out as we would do our own | and tliat as for 
]aB charges, if lie would go with us we would set him safe on there (lifo 
Sdid easnaUies exceed), either in Muscovy or England, wltieh he would, 
^tour^wnebarge, escept only the carriage of his goods, tte recehred 
Ihe proposal like a man transporied, and lold us he would gui with oi 
over the whole world ; and so we all prepared for our journey. How- 
«¥er, as M was with us, so it was with the other merchants; tliey had 
many things to do; and instead of being ready in five weeks, it was four 
naoAths aiui some days before all things were got together. 

It was the beginning of February, our style, when we set opt fif«n 
Mm. My partner and the old pilot had gone esfNress back 10 tim fon 



OF ROBmSOK GRUSOt. M 

%liere we had fint put fin to dinpose of some goods whieh ve had left 
there; and I, with a Chinese merchant whom I had some knowledge of 
at Nanqnn^ and who came to Pekin on his own affairs, went to Nanquin, 
where I bought ninety pieces of fine damasks, with aboat two hundred 
pieces <if other very fine siiks of sereral sorts, some mixed with gold, 
and had aH tliese brought to Pekin against my partner's return ; besides 
Ifais, we bMght a very large qtiantity of raw silk, and some other goods, 
mireargo amounting, in tiiese goods only, to about three thousand five 
bvndrai pounds sterling; which, together with tea, and some fineca^ 
iieoes, and three camels' toads of nutmegs and cloves, loaded in all eigh*^ 
teen cafiieiB for our share, besides tliose we rode upon; whicfi, with two 
4r Ifapee apare horses, and two horses loaded wKh provisioiM, inade tis, 
in aliorl^ twenty-six camels and horses in our retinue. 

Hw eonipany was very great, and, as near as I can retfiemher, made 
between thfee^nd fdur hundred horse, and upwards of one hundred and 
twenty nMin, very well armed, and provided for all events : for as the 
eaateni earavansare sitbject to be attacked by the Arabs, so are these by 
the Tartan ; bat they are not altogether so dangerous as the Andw, nor 
•0 bartaMens when they prevail. 

Theeompany consisted of people of several nations; but there were 
dM)ve sixty of them merchants or Inhabitants of Moscow, though of 
them some were Livonians ; and, to our particular satisfketion, five of 
tiiem were Scots, who appeared also to be men of great experience in 
hoaiaess, and of very good substance. 

When we had travelled one day's journey, the guides, who were Ittt 
in mNnher, ealled all the gentlemeh and merchants, that is to say, all 
the paasangera except the servants, to a great conneN, as they called tt. 
At this council every one deposited a certain quantity of money td a 
common stock, for the necessary expense of buying forage on the Way, 
Where it was not otherwise to be had, and for satisfying the guides, 
getthig hotvesj and the like : and here they constituted the journey, as 
liiey call it, via. they named captains and officers to draw us all up, and 
give the word of command, in case of an attack, and give every one 
their tnm of command ; nor was this forming ns into order any more 
than whi^ we found needfiii on the way, as shedl be observed. 

Ihe read all on this side of the country is very popufons, and is ihl! 
of potters and earth makers, that is to say, people that temper the earth 
ihr the Chinaware ; and as I was coming along, our Portugal pilot, who 
had always something or other to say to maJte us merry, came sneering 
to me, and told me he would show me the greatest rarity in all the 
eenntry , and that I should have this to say of China, after all the in loi^ 
naenred things I had said of it, that I had seen one tliif^ which was not 
to he seen in all tlie world beside. I was very Importunate to know 
what it was : at last he told me it was a gentleman's house built with 
Chinaware. *^ Well," says I, ^' are not the materials of their buildiitts 
the product of their own country, and so it is all Chinaware, is it not r* 
'«*^'1?90j no," says he, ^* I mean it is a hotise all made of Chinaware, such 
as you call it in England, or as it is called in otnr country, porcelain.^ 
-*..*♦ Well,** says I, '* such a thing may be ; liow big is it ? Can we carry 
it in n box upon a eamel ? If we can^ we v^ buy it.*'— ^^pon a camel l** 



3M U^ AND ill>VENTUR£5 

says the dd pilot, holding ap both bis hands ; ^^ why there is a femily of 
thirty people lives in it." 

I was then carious, indeed, lo see it; and when I came to it, it was 
nothing but this : it was a timber house, or a house built, as we call it in 
England, with lath and plasier; but all this plastering was really Chi- 
naware, tliat is to say, it was pias(en>d with tlie earth that makes Ghi- 
naware. The outside, which tUe sun slione hot upon, was glazed, and 
looked very well, perfectly white, and painted with blue figures as the 
large Cliinaware in England is pauited, and hard as if it had been burned. 
As to tlie inside, all the walls, instead of wainscot, were lined with 
hardened and painted tiles, like the Ihtle square tiles we call galley-tiles 
in England, all made of the finest China, atfd the figures exceeding fine 
indeed, with extraordinary variety of colours, mixed with gold, many 
tiles making but one figure, but joined so artificially, the mortar being 
niade of the same earth, that it was very hard to see where the tiles met. 
The floors of the rooms were of the same composition, and as hard as 
the earthen floors we have in use in several parts of England; as hard as 
stone, and smooth, but not burned and pamted, except some smaller 
rooms, like closets, which were all, as it were, paved with the same tile : 
the ceiling, and all the plastering work in the whole house, were of the 
same earth; and, after all, the roof was covered with tiles of the same, 
but of a deep shining black. This was a Ghinaware house indeed, truly 
and literally to be called so, and had I not been upon the journey, I could 
have stayed some days to see and examine the particulars of it. They 
told me there were fountains and fish ponds in the garden, all paved on 
the bottom and sides with the same; and fine statues set. up in rows on 
the walks, entirely formed of the porcelain earth, and burned whole. 

As this is one of the singularities of China, so they may be allowed to 
excel in it; but I am very sure they excel in their accounts of it; for they 
told me such incredible things of their performance in crockeryware, for 
such it is, that I care not to relate, as knowing it could not be true. 
They told me, in particular, of one workman that made a ship with all 
its tackle and masts and sails in earthenware, big enough to carry fifty 
men. If they had told me he launched it, and made a voyage to Japan in 
it, I might have said something to it indeed; but as it was, I knew the 
whole of tlie story, which was, in short, asking pardon for the word, 
that the fellow lied ; so I smiled, and said nothing to it. 

Tliis odd sight kept me two hours behind the caravan, for which the 
leader of it for the day fined me about the value of three shillings ; and told 
me if it had been three days' journey without the wall, as it was three 
days within, he must have fined me four times as mudi, and made me 
ask pardon the next council-day : I promised to be more orderly; and, 
indeed, I found afterwards the orders made for keeping all together were 
absolutely necessary foronrconunon safety. 

In two days more we passed the great China wall, made for a fortifi- 
cation against liie Tartars ; and a very great work it is, going over hills 
and mountains in a needless track, where the rocks are impassable, and 
the precipices such as no enemy could possibly enter, or indeed climb up, 
or where, if they did, no wall could hinder them. They tell us its length 
is near a thousand English miles, but that the country is five hundred m 



OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. S%i 

a straight measured line, which the wall boands, without itieaguring the 
wmdings and turnings it takes ; it is aboat four fathoms high, and as 
many thick in some places. 

I stood still an hour or thereabouts, without trespassing our orders (for 
so long the caravan was in passing the gate), to look at it on every side, 
near and far off, I mean that was within my view ; and the guide of oar . 
caravan, who had been extolling it for the wonder of the world, was 
mighty eager to hear my opinion of it. I told him it was a most excel- 
lent thing to keep out the Tartars ; which he happened not to understand . 
as I meant it, and so took it for a compliment ; but the old pilot laughed : ' 
"O, Seignior Inglese," says he, "you speak in colours,"— "In colours!" 
said I; "what do you mean by that?"— "Why, you speak what lookae 
white this way and black that way; gay one way and dull another. You 
tell him it is a good wall to keep out Tartars; you tell me by that it is 
good for nothing but to keep out Tartars. I understand you, Seignior 
Inglese; I understand you ; but Seignior Chinese understood you his own. 
way."— "Well," says I, "Seignior, do you tliink it would stand out an 
army of our country people, with a good train of artillery, or our engi- 
neers, with two companies of miners? Would not they batter it down 
in ten days, that an army might enter in battalia; or blow it up in the air, 
foundation and all, that there should be no sign of it left?"— "Ay, ay," 
says he, "I know that." The Chinese wanted mightily to know what I 
said, and I gave him leave to tell him a few days after, for we were then 
almost out of their country, and he was to leave us in a little lime after 
this; but when he knew what £ said, he was dumb all the rest of the way,' 
and we heard no more of his fine story of the Chinese power and greats 
ness while he stayed. 

After we passed this mighty nothing, called a wall, something like the 
Ptcts' wall, so famous in Northumberland, built by the Romans, we began 
to find the country thinly inhabited, and the people rather c^onfined.to 
live in fortified towns and cities, as being subject to the inroads and de- 
predations of the Tartars, who rob in great armies, and therefore are not 
to be resisted by the naked inhabitants of an open country. And here 
I began to find the necessity of keeping together in a caravan as we travel- 
led, for we saw several troops of Tartars roving about ; but when I came 
to see them distinctly, I wondered more that the Chinese empire could 
be conquered by such contemptible fellows; for they are a mere horde 
of wild fellows, keeping no order, and understanding no discipline, or 
manner of fight. Their horses are poor lean creatures, taught nothing, 
iind fit for nothing; and this we found the first day we saw them, which 
was after we entered the wilder part of the country. Our leader for the 
day gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a hunting, as they call it, and 
what was this but hunting of sheep ! however, it may be called hunting 
too, for the creatures are the wildest and swiftest of foot that ever I saw 
of their kind^ only they will not run a great way, and you are sure of 
sport when you begin the chase, for they appear generally thirty or forty 
in a flock, and, like true sheep, always keep together when they fly. 

In pursuit of this odd sort of game it was our hap to meet with about 
forty Tartars : whether they were hunting mutton as we were, or whetlier 
they looked for another kind of prey we knew not; but as soon as they 

21 



Sn LITB AND ABYEmURES 

vaw tig, oiw of tKcMi blew » kind of hem very loud, biit with a barbftrmis 
saand that I hi»d never heard before, and^ by ttie way, never eare to 
hear again; we all supposed this was to call thefrfk^lbnds aboiitthem, and 
so it wa^; for in le«i than (^ thinates a troop ^fforty or Hlty more ap- 
peared at aboat a iniie distance ; biU oar work was over first aa it hap- 
pened. 

One of the Sedt^ met^haitts of Moscow happened to be atnong«;t us, and 
as tooii a lie hMttti the horn, he (old ns that we had nothing to do tmt to 
c^rge them imfiiedlsitety, without loss of time; and drawing tig «p ili a 
Ikie, he ask^ if we Were resolved. We told him we were re^y to follow 
liim) so he rode dkeetly towards ihetn. They stood gaiitig at ns tike a 
meifi crowd, drawn up in no order, nor shoti^ing the face of ainy order ^ 
all $ but as soon as they saw ns advance, they let fly their arrows, wMch, 
however nifosed us very happily : ii seems they mistook not their aim, hot 
tlieir disiatice; fo^ their arrows ^11 fell a little short of ns, bit with so 
true an aim, that had we been ahoiit twetity yards nearer; we iftust Ivavd 
bad several mteri womtded, if not killed. 

Immediately We balled ; and thottgii it was at a great dlMance, we fired; 
and sent them leadeii bullets for wooden arrows, foltowirfg 6»r shot Ml 
({dllop, to Ml iii atiiong them swdrd iti hand, for so our hold Scot that 
led us directed. He was, indeed, but a i»ierchant, but he behaved wUh 
that vigour aiid bravery on this occiisrion, and yet with sficto edol courage 
too, that I never saw any man in action fitter for ^mmand. As soon u 
We eatne hp to them, we fired our pistols in their fkees, and then drew : 
bit they fled in the greatest confusion imaginable. The only stand any 
of themi nMde was on our right, where three of them stood, and, by signs, 
called the rest to come back to them, having a kind of scimitar in their 
hands, and their bows hanging to their backs. Our brave commander, 
WMiOtit asking anybody tb follow him, gallops up close to them, and with 
hisfosee Itiocksone ofthem off his horse, killed the second with his 
l^ol, and the third rain away; and thus ended our fight : but we had 
ibis misfortnne attending it, that all our mutton we had in chase got 
away. We bad not ti man killed or hnrt; bnt as for the Tartars, there 
WH« libOtiC Ave of thorW killed ; how many were wounded we knew not ; 
Met fSiis we knew, that the other party were so frighterN»d with the noise 
Moitr gohs, that they made off, anxl never made any attempt npon us. 

We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and therefore the 
Tartars were not so bold as afterwards ; but in about live days we entered 
If vast, great, wild desert, which held us three days' and nights' mardi; 
bad We Were oldiged to carry our water with os in great leathern bot- 
tles, aiid to encamp all night, just as I have heard they do in the deserts 
ol Arabia. 

t aak^d our guides whose dominion this was in ; and they told me tins 
WHS a kind of border, that might be called no man's laild, t)eing a part of 
6reaf Karakathay, or Graiid Tariary ; bnt, however, it was all reckonOd 
te belonging to China, but that there was no care taken here to preserve 
it from the inroads of thieves, and therefore it wds reckoned the worst 
desert m the wholo march, though we were to go over some mach 

fh passing this wilderness, which wa^ at first vary lirightful to rae^ wt 



lirri two or diree UmeSy little parties of the Tartars^ but tbey Itemed i^ 
lie npon tbeir own affairs, and to have no design upon us ; atid so, like 
Ite tt^^Q who met the devil, if they bad nothing \» say to us, we had no* 
J^iag to say to tbem ; we let them go, Onoe, however, a piiriy of them 
tame so Dear as to stand and .gaze at us ; whether it was to consider if 
they should attack us or not W0 kn^w not ; but when we were passed at 
lMi0 distance by them, we made a rear gqard of forty men, and stood 
j«iQly for them, letting ibe caravan pass half a mile or Ibereabouts before 
jpa ) but after a while they marched off; only we found they saluted us 
^itb five arrows at thefar parting, one of which wounded a horse, so that 
Hltobled hiin, and we left him the next day, poor creature, ingreal 
A0«d of a good farrier: they might shoot more arrows wbicb might fall 
ibert of us, but we saw no more arrows or Tartars, that time. 
.. We travelled near amoolh after this, the ways not being so good as at 
first, though still in the dominions of the emperor of China, but lay for 
^0 pMWl part in villages, lomeof which were fortified, because of the in- 
cursions of the Tartars. When we were oome to one ot these towns (it 
ir«8 ifiQul.two <iay» and a half's journey before we were to come to the 
iiity of Naom), I wanted, to buy a camel, of which there are plenty to be 
ftM aU Uie way upon that road, and horses also, such as ihey are, because 
l^iaany caravans coming ttiat way they are often wanted. The persoa 
^b#t } ipoke to t« get me a. camel, would have gone and fetchjed oue for 
9i^;lmMi Hke a fool, must be officjoMS, and go myself along with him; 
|be plaoe waa about two miles out of the vills^, where it seems they kept 
ibe eaisela and horses feeding under a guard. 
. I walked it OKI foot, with my old pilot and a Chinese, beiug very im^* 
rous of a little variety. When we came to the place, it was a low mar- 
fby grounds walled round with a stone wall, piled up dry, without mor* 
tar or earth ampng it, like a park, with a little guard of Chiqese soldiers 
at the door. Having bought a camel, and agreed Ibr the pricei, I came 
away, and the ChtneBeman thai went with ipe led the camel, when on a 
aaddeQ came up live Tartars on horseback ; two of them seized the felloif 
and took the camel from, him, while the other three stepped up to me and 
my old pilot, aeejUg.us, as it were, unarmed, for t had no weapon about 
me but my sword, which could hut ill defend me against thr^e horseman* 
^he first that came up stopped short upon my drawing my sword, for 
tkey are arrant oa^^ards ;.but a second, c()ming upon my left, gave nie a 
blow on the head, wbicti Inever felt till afterwards, and wondered, when 
I came to myself, wliat was tlie matter, ond where I m as, for he laid me 
flat on the ground ; but my nev^r.fMiling.old pilot, llie Portuguese (so ^ro- 
videiioe^ onlooked for« directs deliverances from dangers which to us are 
nilftarese^n), bad a (Mstol in hjs pockc't, which I knew nothing of, nor the 
I'arturf neither ; if they h«d, I suppose they would not have attacked us; 
DttI cowards are always boldest when there is no danger. The old man 
seeing me down, with a bold heart stepped up to the fellow that had 
sb'MCk.me^ and laying hold of his arm with one hand, and pulling him 
Aown 1^ main foroea little towards him with the other, shot him in Ihe 
beadf aod laid bim dead upon the spot. Ue then immediately stepped up 
fo hipi fibo bad stopped us, as £ said, and before he could come forward 
a^ain, nuide a blow at him with a scimitar, which he always wore, but 



S34 Unt JM> Al>y&NTUll£5 

mining the man, cot his hone in the »de of his head, cut cue of the 
ears off by the root, end a great slice down by the side of his face. The 
poor beast, enraged with the wound, was no more to be goyemed by his 
rider, though the fellow sat well moagfa too, bat away he flew ; and car- 
ried him qaite oot of the pilot's reach ; and at some distance ri^ig npon 
his hind legs, threw down the Tartar, and fell npon him. 

In this inlerval, the poor Chinese came in who had lost the camel, bat 
he had no weapon : however, seeing the Tartar down, and his horse fell- 
en upon him, away he mns to him, and seizing npon an ogly ill favoored 
weapon he had by his side, something like a poleaxe, bat not a poleaxe 
neither, he wrenched it from him, and make shift to knock his Tartarian 
brains ont with it. But my old man had the (liird Tartar to deal with 
still ; and seeing he did not fly, as he expected, nor come on to fi^t him, 
as he ai^>rehended, bat stand stock stilt, the old man stood still too, and 
fell to work with his tackle to charge his pistol again ; bat as soon as the 
Tartar saw the pistol, away he scoared, and left my pildt, my champion 
I called him afterwards, a complete victory. 

' By this time I was a little recoyered; for I thought when I first b^fan 
to wake, that I had been in a sweet sleep ; bnt, as I said above, I wonder-^ 
ed where I was, liow I came npon the ground, and what was the matter; 
but a few moments after, as sense returned, I felt pain, though I did not 
know yffhere ; so I clapped my band to my head, and took it away bloody; 
then I felt my head ache ; and then in a moment memory reilurned, and 
every thing was presmt to me again. I jumped upon my feet instantly, 
and got hold of my sword, but no enemies in view 1 1 found a Tartar lie 
dead, and his horse standing very quietly by him ; and, looking farther, 
I saw my champion and deliverer, who had been to see what the Chinese 
had done, coming back with his hanger in his hand : the old man, seeing 
me on my feet, came ninning to me, and embraced me with a great deal 
of joy, being afraid before that I had been killed; and seeing me bloody, 
would see how I was hurt; but it was not much, only what we call a bro- 
ken head; neither did I afterwards find any great inconvenience from the 
blow, for it was well again in two or three days. 

We made no great gain, however, by this victory, for we lost a camel 
and gained a horse; but that which was remarkable, when we canie back 
to the village, the man demanded to be paid for the camel ; I disputed it, 
aiid it was brought to a hearing before the Chinese judge of the place. 
To give him his due, he acted with a great deal of prudence and impartia- 
lity ; and, having heard both sides, he gravely asked the Chinese man 
that went witli me to buy the camel, whose servant he was ? *^ I am no 
servant," says he, "but went with the stranger." — *'At whose re^ 
(quest? " says the justice. " At the stranger's request, " says he. ** Why 
then,*' says the justice, " you were the stranger's servant for the time ; 
and the camel being delivered to his servant, it was delivered to him, and 
he must pay for it." 

I confess the thing was so clear that I had not a word to say; but, ad* 
miring to see such just reasoning npon the consequence, and an accurate 
stating of the case, I paid willmgly for the camel, and setit for another; 
bnt, you may observe, I did not go to fttch it myself any more, for I had 
had enough of that. 



OFaOBII^SON CEUSOS. $25 

. Tbe city of Naoin is a frontier of the Chinese empire; they call it for- 
liGedy and so it is as fioKifications go there ; for this I will venture to af- 
MviOj th^t all the Tartars in Karakathay, whicii, I helieve, are some 
miilioQs, Goald not batter down the walls with their bows and arrows ; 
j)pt4o call it strongs if it were attacked with cannon, would be to make 
•those who understand it laugh at you. . . 

- We wanledy as I have said, above two days' journey of this city, when 
messoBgers were sent express to every part of the road to tell all travellers 
and caravans to halt till they had a guard sent for ihem; for that an 
unusual body of Tartars, making ten thousand in all, had appeared in the 
way, about thirty miles beyond the city. 

This was very bad news to travellers ; however, it was carefully done 
i)f the governor, and we were very glad to hear we sliould have a guard. 
Accordingly, two days after we had two hundred soldiers sent us froip fL 
garrison of the Chinese, on our left, and three hundred more from the 
city of Naum, and with these we advanced boldly ; Uie three luindred 
soldiers from Naum marched in our front, the two hundred in our rear, 
and our men on each side of our camels, with our baggage, and tbe whole 
•caravan in the centre; in this order, and well prepaied for battle, we 
thought ourselves a match for the whole ten thousand Mogul Tartars, if 
tliey had appeared; but the next day, when they did appear, it was quite 
iinothei' thing. > 

t, It .was early in the morning, when, marching from a well situated 
.Utile town, called Changn, we had a river to pass, %vhieh we . were 
4>biiged to ferry; and, had the Tartars had any intelligence, then had 
been the time to liave attacked us, when the caravan being over, the rear 
fuard was bebind; but they did not appear there. About three hours 
^fter, when we were entered upon a desert of about fifteen or sixteen 
jmHts over, behold, by a cloud of dqst they raised, we saw an enen^y was 
'at hand; and they were at hand indeed, for they came on upon the spur. 
o The Chinese, our guard in the front, who had talked so big the day 
JbefoDC,: began to stagger ; and the soldiers frequently looked behmd them, 
.whidbt is a certain sign in a soldier that he is just ready to run away. 
My old pilot was of my mind; and, being near me, called out, /^Seignior 
flnglel^^" says he, '^ those fellows must be encouraged, or they will ruin 
JM all; for if the Tartars come on, they will never stand it." — ^^ £ am of 
/your mind," said I; **but what must be done?" — ^^Doue!" says he, 
fMet fifty of our men advance, and flank tbem on each wmg, and encou* 
tage them ; and they will Gght like brave fellows in brave company ; but, 
iT^JIIIiout this, they will every man turn his back." Immediately I rode 
np'to.oor leader, and told him, who was exactly of our mind; and 
ii^eprdingly fifty of us marched to the right wing, and fifty to the left, 
jand the rest made a line of rescue; and so we maiclicd, leaving the last 
4ir.o..hjindKed men to make a body by themselves, and to guard tlie 
camels; only that, if need were, they should send a htmdred men to assist 
ihe last fifty. 

, ;In a.w9rd, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable company they 
were.: how many we. could not tell, but ten thousand, we thought, was 
tiie least; a party i>f them came on first and viewed our posture^ ira* 
t^eraifts the ground in tbe fiont of our luie j and, as we found them within 



M LIFE AND AB^NtOBSft 

gunshot, our leader ordered the two tring» to advinoe gtdftly, aoi |five 
^ein a Balvo on each wing with their shot, whieh wiis dotie; fiol 
they went off, and I suppose hack, (o give an acc4')unt of the pfceptidk 
they were like to meet with^ and, indeed, thai salute eloyml their 
stomachs, for they iinmedialely halted, stood awhile to eotisMier of ili^ 
and wheeling off to tlie left, they gave ovierlheJr design^ and aaid mb 
more to ns for that Ume; which watv<^ry agreeable to harctrcttm- 
fitanees, which were but very indifferent for a battle with aoeb a 
ntimher. 

'• Two days after we oame to the city of Nann, or Kaumvwe tliaiiliei 
the governor for his care of us, ^nd eollteted to tlie value of a hundred 
crowKs, or thereabouts, whlt^h we gave to the soldiers 4ent tta guard as; 
and here We rested one day. This is a garrison indeed, and there Wen 
nine hundred soldiers kept here j but the reason of it was, that Ibmierly 
the MuKCovitfe frontiers lay neat«r to them than they now do, theMiK^ 
eoviles having abandoned that part of the coiinSry, tvhich lies frdm this 
city west fbr about two hundred miles, as desolate and unfit for use) aad 
more especially being so very remote^ and so diSfletiU to send troops 
thither for its defence : for we had yet above two tfaowiand miles to M ifli- 
'Coty, properly si) called. 

After this we passed several great rivers, and two dreadhil deserts; one 
of which we were sixteen days passing over; ^nd which,.||S I Said, was 
ko be called no man's land ; and, on the "isih of April, we eame to the 
frontiers of the Muscovite dominions. I think the Bitet town of fortM»^ 
which ever it may be called^ that belonged to the Gsar pf Museovy, was 
ealled Arguna, being on the west side of the river Afgiina. 
''■ I cQfM not but discover an infinite satisifoctioa' 4iat t was so seal 
arrived fti, as I called it, a Christian dountry, or, lA teaeir, in a eonntif 
governed by Christians; for though the Muscovite <!»', in nny o^infci^ 
l>utja^t deserve the name of Christians, yet siieh they prst^ndlo W) aM 
We very devout in their way. It wouhl certainly ooear to loiy inan who 
tmvels the world as I have done, and who had any power of reQeotfonl^ 
what a blev^sing it is to he brought Info the world where the name of Cod 
and a Redeemer Is known, Adored, and wor^ped; and nt^t where (K 
j^ople, given up by Heaven to strong delusions, wofshi|^ the de^^ll, ani 
prostrate themselves to stocks and stones; worship nibnsi^rs, eleiihent% 
horrid-shaped aiiimats, and statues oi^ images (M'mOqsters. Mel a town 
(M^eity We passed through but had their pagods, ttieir idots, end their 
temples, and ignorant people worshiping eved the woiis of thetl* e^m 
hands* Now we came where, at least, a face of the Cljristiaii WonAlp 
apfieshid; \shere the knee was bowed to Jesus| and' whether IgnoftiiiMy 
<^r not, yet the Christian religion was owned, and the name of the tme 
God was called upon and adored, and it made my s^ol re^iee totfaee ili 
I saluted the brave Scots merchant t mentioned above wit& niy first aCK 
knowledgment of this; and taking him by the hand, I said to Mni^ 
^'Blessed be God, we are once again amongst Christians." He smiled 
and answered, *^ Do not rejoice too soon, countiyman; these MasOorites 
are but an odd sort of Christians; and but for the name of it,^ you ttif 
see very little of the substance fbr Some months farther of onr j6tinief.*f 
^'' Well/' says I, ''but still it rs better thto Paganltan and W<tt»hj^ el 



OF &OBiM<iQN C^U«Og} JHH 

devils/'—" Why, I wW telj you," says he," " except ihe Ri^nui «o(- 
dien in ihe gtrrisons, and a few of the inhahitants of the cities upon the 
road, all the rest of this country, for above 9 thousand miles farther, is 
inhabited by the worst and must ignorant pf Pag^fis^" . And sq^ indeed, 
we found it. 

We were now launched into the great^t piece cif poHd earth, if % 
undentand any thing of thie sprface of the globe, that is to be found in 
any peri of the world ; we had> at legist, twelve thoqsand miles to the sea, 
eastwards iwo thoasand to tlte bottom of tl^ Baltic wji, westward; and 
above three thousand, if we left that sea and went on west, to tlie British 
and French chaenels^ we had full fivje ihiMisand ipiles to the Indian 
or Persian sea, south; and abput eight hmidred to the Frpzen sea, north. 
Nay, if some people may be believed, ther^ might be no sea north- 
east till we came rpund the polt;, an4 consequently into the north- 
west, and so \^ a continent qf land into America, the Lord knows 
where: though I could giye sqme reasons why I believe that to be a inis- 
take. 

As we entered into the Mqscpyite dominions a good while before we 
caote to any considera^tle towns, we had no^^ii^ lo observe there but 
this ; first, that all the rivers run to the east : as I understood by the 
johsrtA, which some in our caravan had with them, it was plain all ihqse 
river^ ran into the great river Yamour, or Gamour ; which river, by th^ 
natural course of it, must run into the East s^a, or Chiuese Ocean. The 
^tory they tell us, tliat the moulh of this river is choked up with bulrushes 
of a pdonfllrous growth, viz, three feet about, m^i tv>!Qnty pr tiurty feet 
Ugbu I must be allowed to say « I believe nothing qf it ; but, ais it^ navi-* 
gation is of no use, because there is no trade thai, way, the Tafrtars, tp 
vkmi it oiooe belongs, dealing in noi|iing but cattle, so nobody that ever 
Iheacdof, has been curipus enough either to go down to tji^ mouth of i^ 
vtk boats^ or come up from the mouth of it in ships, a^ far ^s I pan find : bqt 
this is certain, that this river running east, in the latitude of about fiftj 
degrees, carries a vast concourse of rivers filqng with it, ^nd finc^s.ffll 
Dccfan to empty itself in that latitude; so we are sure of sea ih^re. • 

^me :)Q9gues to the north of tins river there are several considerahle 
mtanu wheee streams run as due north as the Yainour riins easi, an4 
these, act all Ibund to join their waters with the great river Tartarus, 
named so* from the northernmost nations of the Mogul Tartars; ^ho, ef 
the Chinese say, were the first Tartars in ihe world; and who, as ou^ 
geographers allege, are tlie Gog and Magog mentioned in sacred story. 
These rivers running alt northward, as w^ as all the oth^ rivers I agj 
yel to speak of, make it evident that the northern ocean boiinds the len(| 
9\m ne >thet side;; $o tb^t it does not seem rational in the least )o thinly 
4hst.*t||^ land C9n extj^nd it§^lf to join with America on that side, or thai 
there is not a comni^meatipn bqtween Uie nprthern and eastern ocean ; 
toU HX ^bi^ I lihall sc^y po more; ii was ipy observation at that time^ an^ 
ftorfifore J tsk^ 5^oticpo(it in this place. 

\Yq mNf #^v^ced ffprn the river Arg^q^ihy easy and moderate joar- 
neys, ^l^. w^r^^ y^ry visibly obliged to the case ihe Czar of Muscovy hae 
taken Hi h^ve (^itie^ aijd towns built in as many places as it is possible to 
place th^, )yliei'e his sqldiejrs keep garrison, someihiivg Utie th^ Ftatioqr 



W LIFE AND ADVENTO1I£S 

ary soldiers placed by the Romans in the remotest countries of their 
empire ; some of which that I had read of were placed in Britain^ for the 
^curity of commerce, and for the lodging travellers : and thus it was 
here; for wherever we came, though at these towns and stations the 
garrisons and governors were Russians and professed Christians, yet the 
inhabitants were mere pagans ; sacrificing to idols, and worshiping the 
9un, moon, and stars, or all the host of heaven; and not only so, but 
were, of all the heathens and pagans that ever I met with, the most bar- 
barous, except only that they did not eat men's fleshy as our savages of 
America did. » 

' Some instances of this we met with in the country between Arguna^ 
'Where we enter the Muscovite dominions, and a city of Tartars and Rus- 
sians together, called Nortziousky, in which is a continued desert or 
forest, which cost us twenty days to travel over. In a village near the 
last of these places, I had the curiosity to go and see their way of living, 
which is most brutish and unsufTerable : they had, I suppose, a great sa- 
crifice that day ; for there stood out, upon an old stump of a tree, an idol 
made of wood, frightful as tlie devil; at least, as any thing we can think 
of to represent the devil can be made : it had a head not so much as 
resembling any" creature that the world ever saw ; ears as big as goats' 
liorns. and as high; eyes as big as a erown piece; a nose like a crooked 
I'am's horn, and a mouth extended four-cornered, like that of a lion, with 
'horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot's under bill ; it was dressed up in the 
filthiest manner that you could suppose : its upper garment was of sheep 
skins, with the wool outward ; a great Tartar bonnet on the head, with 
two horns growing through it ; it was about eight feet high, yet had no 
feet or legs, nor any other proportion of parts. 

' This scarecrow was set up at the outer side of the village; and, when 
I came near to it, there were sixteen or seventeen creatures, whether 
men or women I could not tell, for they made no distinction by their 
Itabits, all lying flat upon the ground round this formidable block of 
^apeless wood ; I saw no motion among them any more than if they had 
been all logs of wood, like the idol, and at first I really thought they had 
been so; but, when I came a little nearer, they started up upon their feet, 
and raised a howling cry as if it had been so many deep-mouthed hounds, 
and walked away, as if they were displeased at our disturbing tliem. A 
little way off from the idol, and at the door of a tent or hut, made all of 
s(heep skins and cow skins dried, stood three butchers, — I thought they 
v/ere such; when I came nearer to them, I found they had long knives 
ih t^eir hands ; and in the middle of the tent appeared three slieep killed, 
knd one* young bullock or steer. These, it seems, were sacrifices to that 
senseless log of an idol ; the three men were priests belonging to it, and 
the seventeen prostrated wretches were the people who brought the 
offering, and were making their prayers to that stock. 
' 'I confess I was more moved at their stupidity and brutish worship of 
a hobgoblin than ever I was at any thing in my life ; to see God's most 
glorious and best creature, to whom he had granted so many advantages, 
even by creation above the rest of the works of his hands, vested with a 
teasonable soul, and that soul adorned with faculties and capacities adapt- 
*cd both to honour his Maker and be honoured by him, sunk and d^ene- 



OF ROBINSON G&USOE* l» 

rated to a degree so very stupid as to prostrate itself to a friglitftd no- 
thing, a mere imaginary object, dressed up by themselves, asd made ter- 
rible to ihemseWes by their own contrivance, adorned only with clouts 
and rags ; and that this should be the effect of mere ignorance, wrought 
up into hellish devotion by the devil himself; who, envying to his Maker 
the homage and adoration of his creatures, had deluded them into sucb 
sordid and brutish things as one would think should shock nature itself! 

But what signified all the astonishment and reflection of thoughts; thus 
it was, and I saw it before my eyes, and there was no room to wonder alt 
% or think it impossible : all my admhration turned to rage, and I rode 
up to the image or monster, call it what you will, and with my sword 
made a stroke at the bonnet that was on its head, and cut it in two; and 
one of our men that was with me took hold of the sheep skin that covered 
it, and pulled at it; when, behold, a most hideous outcry and howling 
ran through the village, and two or three hundred people came about my 
ears, so that I was glad to scour Unr it, for we saw some had bows and 
arrows ; but I resolved from that moment to visit them again. 

Our caravan rested three nights at the town, which was about four 
miles off, in order to provide some horses which they wanted, several of 
the horses having been lamed and jaded with the badness of the way and 
long march over the last desert ; so we had some leisure here to put my 
design in execution. I communicated my design to tlie Scois merchant 
of Moscow, of whose courage I had surficient testimony : I told him what 
I had seen, and with what indignation I had since thought that buman 
nature could be so degenerate ; I told him if I could get but four or five 
toen well armed to go with me, I was resolved to go and destroy that 
vile, abominable idol, and let them see that it had no power to help itself; 
and consequently could not be an object of worship, or to be prayed to;, 
much less help them that offered sacrifices to it. 
' He laughed at me :— says lie, ^'Your zeal may be good, but what do 
you propose to yourself by it?" ^'Propose!" said I, '*to vindicate the 
honour of God which is insulted by this devil-worship."— ** But how will 
it vindicate the honour of God/' said he, '^vhile the people will not be 
able to know ttiiat you mean by it, unless you could speak to them, and 
tell them so? and then they will fight you, and beat you too, I'll assure 
you ; for they are desperate fellows, and that e^cially in defence of their 
idolatry ."^^'Can we not," said I, '^do it in the ni^, and^ tbea leai« 
them the reasons and the causes in writing in their own iangudge ?"-^ 
'^* Writing!" said he; '^why, there is not a man in five nations of theiti 
that knows any thing of a tetter, or how to read a word any way."-»- 
''Wretched ignorance !" said I to him : ^^bowever, I have a great mind to 
do it; p^haps nature may draw Inferences from it to them^ to let th^ 
isee how brutish they are to worship such horrid things. "-^^^(»k you. 
Sir," said he, ^Mf your zeal prompts you to it so warmly, you musldo it ; 
but, in the next place, I would have you consider, these wild nations ef 
people are.subjected by force to the Czar of Miiscovy's dominion, and if 
you do this, it is ten to one but they will come by thousands to the go- 
vernor of Ncrtsinskay, and demand satisfaction; and if he cannot give 
tliem satisfaction, it is ten to one but they revolt; and it will occasion a 
new war with all the Tartars ui the country." 



080 UFE AND APVBN 1VRS» 

. JUft, I citniBsSf Jpfeit new thongbts into my bf od far awhile, but I fifurpe^ 
-upon the same string still ; aixjl all that day I was uneasy to put my pro^ 
jeol in execution. Towards the evening the Scots merchant met me by 
BCeitenl in our walk about the town; and desired to speak with me : ^^l 
beliafe/' said he« '^I have put you Off your good desigq; I ti^^^ beeq a 
litUe concerned about it since ; for I abhor idolatry as much as you caf 
do."-rp^ 'Truly," said I, '^you have put k off a little as to the execution of 
it, b9( you have not put it out of my thongbts; and I believe I shall do it 
liefore I quit this place^ thongh I. were to be delivered up tQ them for aftr 
iisfoGtion."--^fNf)> no," said be, ';^God forbid they sho^ld deliver yQp up 
to sueb a crew of. monsters 1 they shall not do that neither > that wpqld t^ 
innrdering yon 'uideed." — "Why," said I, ^'how would they use me?" 
.^^Use you i" said he, ^^I'll tell you bow they served a poor Rn^p who 
.affronted them in their worship just as yon did, and whom they toc^ prir 
soner after they liad laoied him with an arrow, that: he eqpld HQt JTOft 
Away : they took him and stripped him stark naked, and set him npov 
the top of the idoIfmousUMr, and stood all round him, and yhot as piany 
BPifbws into him. as wquld stick over bia whole body; and il^fin tjney 
iMimed him, and all the arrows sticking in him, as a saqrifi/^e to the idol." 
-^"And was this the same idol?" said I. "Yesi" said hc^, "the very 
9am«."— 'HVell," said I, "I wiU tell you a4story." So I reUtecl M^ie^ story 
of our men at Madagascar, and how they burned and sacked tb^ vitiaig^ 
there, and killed man, woman, and cbik! for (heir murdering o^e of our 
men, just as it is related before; and I added, that I thought ^9 opgJU^ t^ 
do so to this village. 

He listened very aitentively to the story : hot when I talked of doing s^ 
^0 that village^ said lie, "You mistake very much ; it w^s nqt this villagjo, 
M'was alipost a buncjred miles from this place; hot it was the same ido|« 
for they carry him about in procession all over the country." — f'VVejl^" 
aaiil i, ^'(hen that idol oogiit to be punished for it; and it ^11/' said h 
*'if Hive this night odt." 

in a word, finding me resolute, he Uked the design, apdtold qae | 
'Bhonld not go alope, but he would go with me, but he would go first and 
liring a stout &ll!S|w^^ one of his countrymen, to go also with us; ' W4 
imo/.'> said he, \\e^ fumous for- his t&nl as yx>u can desire any Qne to bf 
Bgakist audi dei^lish things ^as these/ ^ In aj^ord,.hehrQught me \^^ 
coml-aate, a^Seotsaaan^ whom kie ea}le(t Captalp (liehard^pn ; and I gj|ve 
-him a fuU account of What I had seen, and also .what I mlended ; and h^ 
lold me readily , he would go with me if it. cost him his life. So we agreed 
to go^ only we three; I had, indeedvPiK^posed it to my partni^r, but hf 
declined it. He saidv he was ready (o aiisi^t me to the utmpat, and ufioa 
latt: occasions, lormy defence ; but this was an adventure quite, out of h|s 
, way; 60, Isay, we.resolTed upon our work, only w.e three and my nui^ 
aeki^ant, and le put it in execution that night about midnight, with all the 
seereey imaginable. ,;./'. 

However^ upon'seeonditlionghts, we were willing to dcjay it till th^ 
next night, beeause the caravan being to set forward in the morning, we 
supposed the govetnor could not pretend U) give them any satisfactiop 
upon us when wewereout of hjs power. . The Scots merchant, as steady 
in his resolution for the enteipcise a$ hold in esteeuUiNii bfought ma a 



OF 1I01IIN80N CaUSOE. |M 

(EiaiUf^ itilM or |9»wa of sheep ^kios, and a bonnet, with a ^w ^ 
afftowsy aiid had provided the same Tor himself and his Goantryman, th«| 
Ae people. If thej saw os, sboold not deternuDe ti ho we were. 

All the first night we spent in mixhig up some combuatible mailer with 
hqna vil^ giilipowdcr» tmd soch other materials as we oould get; and, 
lilrnoga good qiubUty of tar ui a litUe pot, about an hour after nigtH we 
fet oot opoB onr opedition. 

We eame.tn ihc placie ahont eleven o'clock at night, and ft>und tliat the 
^people had not the toast {eahNisy of danger attending iheir idol* The 
luglit waa ekmdy ; yet the dioon gave us light enough to see that the idol 
M{Dd jnst In the same postare and place that it did before. The people 
MemMi to be all at their vest ; only, tUat in the great hut, or tent, as we 
called it) where we saw the three prieMs whom we mistook for butdiei^ 
we saw a Mght ; and going dp dose to the door, we heard people, talking 
IB if there wore five or ait of tlMw; we concluded, therefore, thtt if wt 
set wfldfire to the idol^ these men would come out immediately, and ruA 
op to the plaee to leseue it from the destruction that we intended for it; 
and what lo do with them we knew not. Once we tliougbt of caiTying k 
mmof and setting fire lo it at a distance, but when we came to handle it, 
we fannd It too bulky for onr carriage ; so we were at a 1qs$ «|gain. The 
second Scotsman was for setting fire to the tent or hut^ and knocfcifig Ihf^ 
ereaCnies tliat were there on the head, when they came out; but I OQuld 
BOt join with that; i was against kiUing them if it were po^ible to avoid 
it. ^^Well, then," said the ^>cols merchant, ^'I will te|l you what we wiW 
do : we will try to make thepi prisoners, lie their hands, and niak# theai 
aland and see their idol destroyed*" 

iU it happened, we had twin^ or piK^lhread. enough ahQut us^ whioh 
iwe nied to tie onr firelocks together, with ; so we resolved to attack ihe«^ 
poaple fiftt, and with as little noise as we tou\4* The firstihiog we did> 
we knocked at the door, when one of the priests coming to it^ we imm^ 
diately seized upon hhu^. stopped his mouth, and tied his hands behind 
iiun, and led him to the idoJ, where we gagged liim that he might n^ 
make a miae, tied bis Aset also together, and left him on the ground. 
. Two of uft Ihen wailed at the door, expecting that another would con^ 
out to see what the matter was ; but we waited so long li|l the third vmm 
l{eui»hack to ua; and then nobody coming out, we knocked again genUy, 
tod hnmedial^y out came two more, and we servedihem ju)>t in th^sam^ 
ituum^, hut i^ere ohliged to go all with them, s^ lay iliem down by th.9 
Idol aonif distance from one anotlier; when, going back, we found iyif^ 
msn were comeout to ihti door, and a third gtood behind ibem wHh|i| 
the dpoTi We seized the tw^, and immediately tied tbei^i^, when iU$ 
ttnrd ttappk^ hick ag^ Drying out^ my Soots merchant went m after hiii| 
Jmd faking dot a composition We haM made thaA would only smoke auii 
ftink^ he set fioe to it ^ threw it inamnmg them : by tliatlime thie oth« 
i^lsman aod tny manrAafving tiharge of the two men already hounds 
and tied together alao bytbe arm, led.thekn away to the idol, avid left 
them there i6 sds if their idol wouhi relkve Uiem, making haste back to ua^ 
. VChen the fiirae we had thrown in had filled the hui with lornueh 
amifte that ihey wefcealtaoA suffocated, ^ e then threw m a small leather 
bag ofi^thac isiad^ wImkIi flamed like ft candle, and folio wing it in> tvft 



km LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

iMind there were but four people, and, as we supposed, had been aboat 
some of their diabolic sacrifices. They appeared, in short, frightened tm 
death, at least so as to sit trembling and stupid, and not able to speak 
neither for the smoke. 

' In a word, we took them, bound them as we had done the others, and 
all i^ithout any noise. I should have said we brought them out of the 
house or hut first; for indeed we were not able to bear the smoke any 
more than they were. When we had done this, we carried them aU 
together to the idol : when we eame there we fell to work with him ; and 
first we daubed him all over, and his robes also, with tar, and such other 
tipff as we had, which was tallow mixed with brimstone; then we stopped 
iiis eyes, and ears, and mouth full of gunpowder; then we wrapped up a 
great piece of wildfire in his bonnet ; and then sticking all the combustibles 
we bad brought with us upon him, we looked about to see if we could find 
«ny thing else (o help to Imrn him; when my Scotsman remembered that 
bj the tent or hut, where the men were, there lay a heap of dry forage, 
rWhether straw or rushes I do not remember; away he and the otkier 
Scotsman rMi and fetdied their arms full of that. When we had done 
Uiis, we took all our pnsoners, and brought them, having untied their feet 
and ungagged their mouths, and made them stand up, and set themi)efore 
their monstrous idol, and then set fire to the yhnle. 
' We stayed by it a quarter of an hour or thereabouts, till the powder in 
Iheeyes, and mouth, and ears of the idol blew up, and, as we could^per*- 
leei^e, had split and deformed the shape of it: and, in a word, till ire saw 
It burned into a mere block or log of wood ; and setting dry forage to It, 
we found it would be soon quite consumed; so we began to think (^ 
going away ; but the Scotsman said, ^-^ No, we must not tn go, for these 
poor deluded wretches will alt throw themselves into the fire, and bum 
themselves with the idol." So we resolved to stay till the forage was 
burned down too, and then came away and left them. 
' Afterthe feat was performed, we appeared in the morning among our 
fellow travellers exceedingly busy in getting ready-for our journey ; nor 
could any man suggest that we had been any where bat in our beds, as 
criiVeller^ might be supposed to be^ to fit themselr^ for the fatigues of 
the day's journey. ' ' 

f.Bnt the affair did not end so; the next day came a great number of 
tlie country people to the town gates, and in a most outrageous manner 
demanded satisfaction of the Russian governor for the insulting their 
priests, and burning their great Cham Ghi-Thaungn. The people of 
Nertsin^kay were at fifst in a great consternation, f6r they said the Tartan 
Were already no toss^ than thirty thousand strong. The Russian gever* 
dor sent out messengers to appease them, and gave them M the good 
words imaginable; assuring them that he knew nothing of it, and that 
there bad not a soul in his garrison been abroad, so that it could not be 
from anybody there; but if they could let turn know who did it, they 
lifaould be exemplarily punished. They returned haughtily that all the 
country reverenced the great Cham Cht-Thaungo, who dwelt in tlie suo^ 
and no mortal would have dared to offer violence to his image but some 
Christian miscreant ; and they therefore res(4ved to denounce war against 
Mm and iillUie Russians, who, they said, weremiscreants and Christians* 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

, The governor, still patient, and unwilling to make a breads or to haYe 
any canse of war all<^d to be given by hiofi, the Czar having strictly 
icbarged them to treat the conquered country with gentleness and civility, 
gave them still all the good words he could. At last he told tliem there 
was a caravan gone towards Rnssia that morning, and perhaps it was 
some of them who had done them this injury ; and that if they would he 
satisfied with that, he would send after them to inquire into it. This 
seemed to appease them a little; and accordingly the governor sent after 
QS, and gave us a particular account how the thing was; intimating 
withal, that if any in our caravan had done it, they should make iheir 
escape; but that whether we had done it or no, we should make all the 
baste forward that was possible; and that, in Uie mean time, lie would 
keep, them ui play as long as he could. 

This was very friendly in the governor ; however, when it came to the 
caravan, there was nobody knew /anything of the matter; and as for us 
that were guilty, we were least of all suspected. However, the capCain 
of the caravan for the time took the hint that the governor gave us, ami 
we travelled two days and two nights without any considerable stop, and 
tbea we lay at a village called Plothus : nor did we make any long stop 
here, but hastened on towards Jarawena, another of the Czar of Muscor 
vy's.coloiii<>s, and where we expected we should be safe. But upon the 
second day's march from Plothus, by the clouds of durst behind usatu 
great distance, some of our people began to be sensible we were pursued. 
We had entered a great desert, and had passed by a great lake called 
Sehaks Oser, when we perceived a very great body of horse appear on 
Die other ^de of the lake, to the north, we travelling west. We observed 
they went away west, as we did, but had supposed we would have taken 
that side of tine lake, whereas we very happily look the south side ; and 
in two days more they disappeared again : for they, believing we were 
still before them, pushed on till they came lo the river Udda, a very great 
river when it passes farther north, but when we came to it we found it 
narrow and fordable. 

The.third day they had either found their mistake, or had intelligence 
of us, and came pouring in upon us towards the dusk of the evenings 
We had, to our great satisfaction, jnst pitched upon a place for our camp, 
which was very convenient for the night ; for as we were upon a desert, 
Uiough but at the beginning of it, that was above five hundred miles over, 
we had no towns to lodge at, and, indeed, expected none but the city Ja- 
rawena, which we had yet two days march to ; the desert, however, had 
some few woods in it on this side, and little rivers, which ran all into the 
great river Udda ; it was in a narrow strait, between little but very thick 
woods, that we pitched our little camp for that night, expecting to be at- 
tacked before morning. 

. Nobody knew but ourselves what we were pursued for : but as it was 
usual for the Mogul Tartars to go about in troops in that desert, so the 
caravans always fortify themselves every night against them, as against 
armies of robliers ; and it was therefore no new thing to be pursued. . 

But we had this night, of all the nights of our travels, a most advanl^^ 
geolis canp, for we lay between two woods, with a little rivulet running 
just before ottr front, so that yte could not be surrounded^ jov attacked any 



ure AKD aynrvwss 

way tat in our front or mr. We took care also to nako onr fhmt as 
Utong as we coald, bjf placing cor packs, with oar camels and boneg^ 
all in a lino, on the inside of the rirer, and felling some trees in cor rear. 

In this portare we encamped Ibr the ni^t^ tmt the enemy was npet 
OS before we had finished onr sitnatlon. They did not come on ns likft 
thieves, as we expected, hot sent three ni e s sg ng trs to us, to demand the 
men to be delivered to them that had abosed thev priests, and hamed 
Iheir god Cham Chi-Ttiann^ with fire, that they might born them with 
fire ; and open this, they said, they would go awa^, and do us no fbrthsr 
barm, otherwise they would destroy os all. Our men looked very blank 
«l thismessaiM, and began to sUre at one another to see who looked with 
Ae most guilt In their bees : but, nobody was the word, nobody did it. 
The leader of the caravan sent word he was well assnred that it was nol 
Asne by any of our camp; that we were peaneabte meirhants travelling 
rni onr bosinen; that we had done no harm to them or to any one «ise| 
and that, Oierefore^ they most look ferther for their enemies who lad in- 
|mred ihem, t^ we were not the people: so doiired Ihrn mit to distnrb 
nSf Cur if they did vre should defend ourselves. 

They were fer from being satisfied with this fur an answer ^ aid a greit 
erowd of them came running down in the momhig, by break of day, in 
%nr eamp; but seeing us in snch an nnaoeooniable siiaalion, they durst 
oome no nrther than the brook hi our flh>nt, where they stood, and sbQW<*> 
4d ns stich a tinmber that indeed terflfled ns very much; Ibr tliose that 
ipfik^ least of tliem spoke of ten thousand. Here they stood and looked 
It ns awhile, and then setUng np a great bowl, they let tf a ei«iArd of ai^ 
#0W8 among us ; but we were irell enon;^ fortified for that, Ibr we sbA 
lered tinder our baggage, and I do not remember that ono of ns was hart. 

Some time after this, we saw them move a little to onr right, and et- 
l^ected them on tlie rear ; when a canning fellow, a Gossaek of Jarawena^ 
hi the pay of the Muscovites, callhig to the leader of the caravan, said to 
bun, '' I'll go send all these people away to Siheilka." This was a city 
four or five days' joarney at least to the right, and rather behind os. So 
He takes his bow and arrows, and getting on borselMK^, he rides away 
Ihrni our rear directly, as it were back to Nertsiuskay ; after this, he takes 
4. circuit about, and comes directly on the army of the Tartars, as if he had 
been sent express to tell them a long story that thepeople whs had burned 
the CbamClii-ThaanguwereigoneloSiheilka, with a caravan of miscreants^ 
lis he called them, that is to say. Christians ; and that they had resolved 10 
bum the god Schal-Isar, belonging to the Tongoeses. 

As this fellow was himself a mere Tartar, and perfrolly spoke theur iaii- 
gnage, he cnunterreited so well that they all took It fh>m him, and away 
^y drei^e in a most violent hurry to Siheilka, which, it sreilis, was Ave 
days' journey to the norlli ; and in less than three hoors they were entire* 
ly out of our sight, and we never heard any more of them, nor wheUier 
they Went to Siheilka or no. So we passed away salbly on to Jarawena, 
Irhere there was a garrison of Muscovites, and there we rested five days; 
the earavan being exceedingly fatigued with the last day's hard mareh, 
ind with want of rest in the night. 

From this city we had a frightful desert, which held us twaaty^threa 
Oays* mareh. Wo fornisbod ourselYOs wHh sotaio tents here, far tho bellir 



or ROBINSON CHUSO£. S86 

accoBiinodatifigoarseives in the night; and the leader of the caravan pro- 
cured sixteen carriages or waggons of ihe country, for carrying onr water 
or provisions ; and these carriages were our defence, every night, roand 
our littie camp : so that had the Tartars appeared, unless they had heen 
very numerous indeed, they would not have been able to hurt us. 

We may well be supposed to want rest again after this long journey;. 
for in this desert we neither saw house nor tree, and scarce a bush ; though 
we saw abandance of the sable hunters, who are all Tartars of the Mogul 
Tartary, of which this country is a part ; and they frequently attack small 
caravans, bnt we saw no nnml)eis of them to^rether. 

After we had passed this desert, we came into a country pretty well in^ 
habited; that is to say, we found towns and castles, settled by the Czar 
of Mbaiiavy, with garrisons of stationary soldiers, to protect the caravans, 
and defend the country against the Tartars, who would otherwise makq 
it very datigerous travelling ; and his czarish majesty has given such strict 
orders for the well guarding the caravans and merchants, that, if there 
are any Tartars heard of in the country, detatchments of the garrisfnf are 
alwayasent to see the travellers safe from station to station. And thus the 
governor of Adinskoy, whom I had an opportunity to make a visit to, bj 
means of the Scots merchant, who was acquainted with him, offered ns a 
gotfd of fifty men, if we tliought tliere was any danger, to the ncixt sta- 
tion. 

I thought long before this, that as we came nearer to Europe, W9 
should find the country better inhabited, and the people more civilized } 
hut I fonnd myself mistaken in both ; for we bad yet the nation of th^ 
Tnrigoeses to pass through, where we saw the same tokens of paganism 
Ind barbarity as before ; only, as they were conquered by tbe Mu^covitesi 
they were liot so dangerous ; bnt for rudeness of manners, and idolatryi 
■•people in the world ever went beyond them; they are clothed all in 
ihins c^ beasts, and llieir hqi^es aro built of tlie same; you know not a 
man from a woman, neither by the ruggedness of their countenances nor 
their clotbea; and in the winter, when the ground is covered with snow, 
they live under ground in vaults, which have cavities going from one to 
lBM>tl)er. 

If the Tartars had their Cham Chi-Thaungn for a whole village or 
GOllnt^y, these had idols in every hut and every cave : liesides, they wor- 
ahip the stars, thesun, the water, the snow, and, in a word, every thin^ 
they do not understand, and they understand but very little; so that every 
element, every uncommon thingsets them a sacrificing. I met with nothing 
peculiar to myself in all this country, whicli I reckon was, from the desert I 
Ipoke of last, at least four hundred miles, half of it being another desert^ 
whieh took us up twelve days' severe iraveiling, without house or tree; and 
we were obliged again to carry our own provisions, as wf 11 water a$ bread. 
Afler we were out of this desert, and had travelled two days, we came to 
janezay, a Muscovite city or station on the great river Janezay, which, 
tbey told us there» parted Europe from Asia. 

Here I observed ignorance and paganism still prevailed, except in the 
Muscovite garrisons ; all the country between the river Oby and the river 
Janexay is as entiirely pagan, and the people as barbarous, as the r^mot^t 
irfthe Tartars : nay^ as atiy.naUon» for aught I know» in Ma or AmmoL 



I abo fennd, which I ohseiredio the Maseonte goTcmors whom I had an 
opportmiilT tocooTene with, that the poor pa^ns are not much wiser, 
or nearer Christianity, for being nnder the Mnsoorite govemnient, which 
thef acfcnowled^ was tme enough ; hot that, as they said, was none of 
their hafnness; that if the czar expected to convert his Siberian, Tongoese, 
or Tartar sohjectf. it should be done by sending dei^ynien among them, 
not soldiers; and, they added, with more s'meerity than I expected, tliat 
they found it was not so mach the eoneem of their monarch to make the 
people Christians as it was to make them snlgects. 

From this river to the great river Oby, we crossed a wild nncnltivated 
eonntry, barren of people and good management, otherwise it is in itself 
a most pleasant, frnitfol, and agreeable comitry. What inhabitants we 
fonnd in it are all pagans, except sach as are sent among them from 
Rnssia : for this is the country, I mean on both sides the river Oby, 
whither the Mosoovite criminals that are not put to death are banished, 
and from whence it is next to impossible they should ever come away. 

I have nothing material to say of my particular affairs till I came to 
Tobolsk!, the capital city of Siberia, where I continued some time on the 
following occasion. 

We had now been almost seven months on our journey, and winter 
began 1o come on apace ; whereupon my partner and I called a conncil 
about our particular affairs, in which we found it proper, as we were 
bound for England, and not for Moscow, to consider liow to dispose of 
ourselves. They told us of sledges and reindeer to carry us over the 
snow in the wintertime; and, indeed, tliey have such things that it would 
be incredible to relate the particulars of, by which means the Russians 
travel more in the winter than they can in summer, as in these sledges 
they are able to run night and day ; the snow, being frozen. Is one uni- 
versal covering to nature, by which the hills, vales, rivers, and lakes are 
all smooth and hard as a stone, and they run upon the snrfoce, without 
any regard to what is underneath. 

But I had no occasion to push at a winter journey of this kind; I was 
bound to England, not to Moscow, and my route lay two ways ; either I 
must go on as the caravan went, till I came to Jaroslaw, and then go off 
west for Narva, and (hegulf of Finland, and so to Dantzic, where I might 
possibly sell my China cargo to good advantage; or I must leave the ca- 
ravan at a little town on the Dwina, from whence I had but six days by 
water to Archangel, and from thence might be sure of shipping either to 
England, Holland, or Hamburgh. 

Now to go any of these journeys in the winter would have been pre- 
posterous ; for as to Dantzic, the Baltic would have been frozen up, and I 
could not get passage ; and to go by land in those countries was far less 
safe than among the Mogul Tartars; likewise, to go to Archangel in Oc- 
tober, all the ships would be gone from thence, and even the merchants 
who dwell there in summer retire south to Moscow in the winter, when 
the ships are gone ; so that I could have nothing but extremity of cold to 
encounter, with a scarcity of provisions, and must lie in an empty town 
all the winter : so that, upon the whole, I thought it much my better way 
to let the caravan go, and make provision to winter where I was, at To- 
UMAf in Siberia^ in the latitude of about sixtf degrees^ where I was aare 



6F ROfilNSON CRUSOfe. 557 

ot ih)ree things to wear oat a cold winter with, viz. plenly of provisions/ 
sQch as the eoantry afforded, a warm house, with fuel enough, and ex- 
cellent company. 

I was now in a qnite different climate from my beloved island, where I 
never felt cold, except when I had my ague ; on the contrary, I had 
much to do to bear any clothes on my back, and never made any fire but 
without doors, which was necessary for dressing my food, etc. Now I 
made me three good vests, with large robes or gowns over them, to hang 
down to the feet, and button close to the wrists; and all these lined with 
furs, to make them sufficiently warm. 

As to a warm house, I must confess I greatly disliked our way in Eng- 
land of making fires in every room in the house in open chimneys, which, 
when the fire was out, always kept the air in the room cold as the cli- 
mate; but taking an apartment in a good house in the town, I ordered a 
chimney to be bailt like a furnace, in the centre of six several rooms, 
like a stove; the funnel to carry the smoke went up one way, the door to 
come at the fire went in another, and all the rooms were kept equally 
warm, but no fire seen, just as they heat the bagnios in England. By 
this means, we had always the same climate in all the rooms, and an 
equal beat was preserved; and how cold soever it was without, it was 
always warm within; and yet we saw no fire, nor were ever incommoded 
with smoke. 

The most wonderful thing of all was, that it should be possible to 
meet with good company here, in a country so barbarous as that of the 
most northerly parts of Europe, near the Frozen ocean, within but a very 
few degrees of Nova Zembla. But this being the country where the slate 
criminals of Muscovy, as I observed before, are all banished, this city was 
full of noblemen, gentlemen, soldiers, and courtiers of Muscovy. Here 
was the famous prince Galitzen, the old general Robostiski, and several 
other persons of note, and some ladies. By means of my Scots merchant, 
whom, nevertheless, I parted with here, I made an acquaintance with 
several of these gentlemen; and from these, in the long winter nights in 
which I stayed here, I received several very agreeable visits. 

It was talking one night with prince , one of the banished mi- 
nisters of state belonging to the Czar of Muscovy, that the discourse of 
my particular case began. He had been telling me abundance of fine 
things of the greatness, the magnificence, the dominions, and the absolute 
power of the emperor of the Russians : I interrupted him, and told him I 
was a greater and more powerful prince than even the Czar of Muscovy 
was, though my dominions were not so large, or my people so many. 

The Russian grandee looked a little surprised, and, fixing his eyes 
steadily upon me, began to wonder what I meant. I told him his wonder 
would cease when I had explained myself. First, I told him I had ab- 
solute disposal of the lives and fortunes of all my subjects ; that notwith- 
standing my absolute power, I had not one person disaffected to my 
government, or to my person, in a!l my dominions. He shook his head 
at that, and said, there, indeed, I ontdid the Czar of Muscovy. T told 
him that all the lands in my kingdom were my own, and all my subjects 
were not only my tenants, but tenants at will ; that they would all fight 
for me to the last dro|>; and that never tyrant, for such I acknowledged 

32 



UFE AND ADVENTURES 

myaeU to be, wa$ ever so universally beloved, and y el so horriUy feared 
by his subjects. 

After amusing liim with these riddles in government for awhile, I 
opened the case> and told lum the story at large of my living in the island ; 
4nd how ] managed both myself and the people that were uoder aie, 
jost as I have since nainuted it down. They were exceedingly takei| 
iprith the story, and especially the prince, who told me, with a sig^, that 
Uie tni* grealfiess of life was to be masters of ourselves ; tliat he wool^ 
i»Qt have exclMQged such a state of life as mine to be Czar of Muscovy ; 
and that he found more felicity m the retirement he seemed to be 
bamsbed to there, tbaa ever he fovnd in the highest authority he ei^qfed 
m the court of his master the cxar ; that the height of human wisdom was 
to bring our tempers down to our circumstances, and to make a calm 
YithiUy under the weight of Uie greatest stonof^ wit)ioiU« When bo 
came .first hither, b<) said he used to tear tlie hair from his head, and the 
clothes fto^ his back, as others had done before hin^^ but a little tune 
and considereUoo had made him look into himself, as well as ronnd hiam 
to things without : that he found the mind of man, if it was but on^ 
hfonght to reflect upon the state of universal life, and how httle this 
world was concerned in its true felicity, was perfectly capable of making 
a felicity for itself, fully satisfying to itself, and suitable to its own best 
ends and desires, with but very little assistance from the world; the air 
to breathe in, food to sustain li^ clotlies forwarmtb, and liberty for 
exercise, in order to health, completed, in his opinion, all that the world 
could do for us ; and though tlie greatness, tlie atUlMiity, the riches, and 
the pleasures whicli some enjoyed in the world, bad much in tliem that 
was agreeable to ua, yet all those things chiefly gratified the coarsest of 
our affections, such as our ambition, our particular pride, avarice, vanity, 
and sensuality; all which, being the mere product of the worst part of 
man, were in themselves crimes, and had in them the seeds of all manner 
of crimes; but neither were related to, nor concerned with, any of those 
Tiiioes that constituted us wise men, or of those graces that distinguished 
us as Christians; that being now deprived of all the fancied felicity which 
bet enjoyed in the full exercise of all those vices, he said he was at leisure 
to look upon the dark side of them, where he found all n^inner of defor* 
nuty, apd was now convinced that virtue only makes a man truly wise, 
rich, and great, and preserves him in the way to a superior happiness in 
a future state; and in this, he said, they were ooore happy in their banish- 
ment than all their enemies were, who had the full possession of all the 
wealth and power they had left behind them. '']Nor, Sir," says he, '^do 
I bripg my mind to this politically, by the necessity of my circumatanoes, 
which some call miserable; but, if I know any thing of myself, I would 
iH)t now go back, though the czar my master should call me, and remstate 
me in all my former grandeur ; I say, I would no more go back to it 
tbaiii I believe my soi|l, when it shall be delivered from this prison of the 
body, and has had a taste of the glorious state beyond life, would como 
back to the gaol of flesh and blood it is now enclosed iq, and leaya 
lieaven, to deal m the dirt and crime of hmnanaffiiirs." 

Ue spoke this with so much warmth in his temper, so mnch eameitneas 
Und WQ\m of bis spirits, that it was «vident U was the true senae of lilf 



Of AOBINSON GRUSOK. S9» 

soal } there was tM> room lo doubt bis sincerity. I told bim I once thought 
ipyself a kind of monarch in my old station, of which I had given him 
an account : but tbat I tiiougbt Ive was not only a monarch, but a great 
conqueror; for that he that has got a victory over his own exorbitant 
desires, and the absolute dominion over bimself, whose reason entirely 
governs bis will, is certainly greater than be that conquers a city. ^' But, 
my lord," said I, '^ shall I take the liberty to ask you a question ? "<^ 
** With all my heart," says he. ^^ If the door of your liberty was opened, 
sAid I, '^ would you not take hold of it to deliver you from Uiis exile?"-— 
'^Hold," said he; ^'your question is subtle, and requires some serious, 
just distinctions to give it a sincere answer; and I will give it yon from 
tbe battom of my heart. Nothing that I know of in this world would 
move me to deliver myself from this state of banishment, except these 
ItWO; first, the enjoyment of my relations; and, secondly, a little warmer 
climate : but I protest to you, that to go back to the pomp of the court, 
the glory, the power, the hurry of a minister of stale ; th& wealth, the 
gaiety, and the pleasures ef a courtier; if my master should send me word 
this moment that be restores me to all he banished me from, I protest, if 
X know myself at all, I would not leave this wilderness, these deserts, 
9od these frozen lakes, for the palace at Moscow." — ^^But, my lord,'' 
said I, '^perhaps you not only are baaislied from the pleasures of the 
^oort, and from the power, authority, and wealth you enjoyed before, 
fyA you may be absent too from some of the conveniences of life; your 
eatate, perhaps, confiscated, and your effiects plundered ; and the supplies 
left you here may not be suitable to the ordinary demands of life. "— 
^^ Ay," says he, '' that is as you suppose me to be a lord, or a prince, etc. ; 
iO) indeed, I am; but you are now to consider me only as a man, a human 
creature, not at all distinguished from another; and so I can suffer no 
want unless 1 should be visited with sickness and distempers. However, 
to put the question out of dispute, you see our manner ; we are, in this 
place, five persons of rank; we live perfectly retired, as suited to a state 
of banishment; w^ have something rescued from the shipwreck of our 
fortunes, which keeps us from the mere necessity of hunting for food ; but 
Ihe poor soldiers, who are here without that help, live in as much plenty 
as we, who go into the woods and catch sables and foxes ; the labour of a 
month wfll mamtain them a year ; and as the way of living is not expen* 
live> so it is not hard to get sofQcient to ourselves. So that objection is 
fi|t of doors." 

I have not room to give a full account of the most agreeable eonversa* 
tion I bad with this truly great man ; in all which he showed that his 
Bund was so inspired with a superior knowledge of things, so supported 
by religion, as well as by a vast share of wisdom, that his contempt of the 
world was really as much as he had expressed, and that he was always 
Die same to the last, as will apppear in the story I am going to tell. 

I bad been here eight months, and a dark, dreadful winter I thought 
il; the cold so intense that I could not so much as look abroad without 
IH^ wrapped in furs, and a mask of for before my face, or rather a hood, 
with only a hole for breath, and two for sight : the little daylight we had 
V49» as we reckoned, fbr three months, not above h\e hours a day, and 
iis tt noelf onljr Ihat the snow lymg on the ground coatinnallyy aw) 



540 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

the weather clear, it was never quite dark. Oar horses were kept, oi 
rather starred under ground ; and as for our servants, whom we hired 
here to look after ourselves and horses, we had, every now and then, 
their fingers and toes to thaw and take care of, lest they should mortify 
and fall off. 

It is true within doors we were very warm, the houses heing close, the 
walls thick, the lights small, and the glass all double. Our food was 
cliiefly the flesh of deer, dried and cured in the season; hread good 
enough, but baked as biscuits; dried fish of several sorts, and some flesh 
of mutton and of the buffaloes, which is pretty good meat. All the stores 
of provisions for the winter are laid op in the summer, and well cured : 
our drink was water, mixed with aqua-vita; instead of brandy ; and for a 
treat, mead instead of wine, which, however, they have excellent good. 
The hunters, who venture abroad all weathers, frequently brought us in 
fine venison, and sometimes bears' flesh, but we did not much care for 
the last. We had a good stock of tea, with which we treated our friends, 
as above, and we lived very cheerfully and well, all things considered. 
It was now March, the days grown considerably longer, and the wea- 
ther at least tolerable; so the other travellers began (o prepare sledges to 
carry them over the snow, and to get things ready to be going; but my 
measures being fixed, as I have said, for Archangel, and not for Mus- 
covy or the Baltic, I made no motion ; knowing very well tliat the ships 
from the south do not set out for that part of the world till May or June, 
and that if I was there by the beginning of August, it would be as soon 
as any ships would be ready to go away ; and therefore I made no baste 
to be gone, as others did : in a word, I saw a great many people, nay, all 
the travellers, go away before me. It seems every year they go from 
thence to Muscovy for trade, viz. to carry furs, and buy necessaries, which 
they bring back with them to furnish their shops; also olliers went on 
tlie same errand to Archangel ; but then they all being to come back 
again above eight hundred miles, went all out before me. 

In the month of May I l)egan to make all ready to pack up; and, as I 
was doing this, it occurred to me that, seeing all these people were ba- 
nished by the Czar of Muscovy to Siberia, and yet, when they came there 
were left at liberty to go whither they would, why they did not then go 
away to any part of the world, where%er they thought fit; and I began to 
examine what should hinder them from making sucli an attempt. But 
my wonder was over when I entered upon that subject with the person I 
have mentioned, who answered me thus : ^'Gonsider^ first. Sir, " says lie, 
^' the place where we are; and, secondly, the condition we are in; espe- 
cially the generality of tlie people who are banished hither. AVe are sur- 
rounded with stronger things than bars or bolts ; on the north side an un* 
navigable ocean, where ship never sailed, and boat never swam; every 
other way we have above a thousand mUes to pass through the czar's own 
dominions, and by ways utterly impassable, except by the roads madeby 
the government, and through the towns garrisoned by his troops; so that 
we could neither pass undiscovered by the road, nor subsist any other 
way ; so that it is in vain to attempt it. " 

I was silenced, indeed, at once,, and fonod that they were in a prison 
eveiy jot as s^ur^ a^ if they liad;been loc^d up. in the caaU^ at Mostow : 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 5{| 

however^ it came into my tboagbts that I might certainly be made an in- 
strument to procnre the escape of this excellent pei-son ; and that, what- 
ever hazard 1 ran, I wonld certainly try if I could carry liim off. Upon 
this I took an occasion, one evening, to tell him my thoughls. I repre- 
sented to him that it was very easy for me to carry him away, there being 
no gnard over him in the country ; and as I was not going to Moscow, btit 
to Archangel, and Uiat I went in the retinue of a caravan, by wliich I 
was not obliged to lie ui the stationary towns in the desert, but could en- 
camp every night where I would, we might easily pass uninterrupted to 
Archangel, where I would immediately secure him on board an English 
ship, and carry him safe along with me ; and as to his subsistence and 
other particulars, it should be my care till he could better supply himself. 
He heard me very attentively, and looked earnestly on me all ihe 
while I spoke : nay, I could see in his very face that what I said put his 
spirits into an exceeding ferment; his colour frequeiKly changed, his eyes 
loojced red, and his heart fluttered, that it might be even perceived in his 
countenance ; nor could he immediately answer me when I had done, 
and as it were hesitated what he would say lo ii : but afler he had paused 
a little, he embraced me, and said, *'How unhappy are we, unguarded 
creatures as we are, that even our greatest acls of friendship are made 
snares unto us, and we are made tempters of one another ? My dear 

. friend," said he, *^ your offer is so sincere, has such kindness in it, is so 
disinterested in itself, and is so calculated for my advantage, that I must 
have very little knowledge of the world if I did not both wonder at it, and 
acknowledge the obligation I have upon me to you for it. But did you 
believe I was sincere in what I have often said to you of my contempt of 
the world ? Did you believe I spoke my very soul to you, and that I Itad 
really obtained that degree of felicity here that had placed me above all 
that the world could give me? Did you believe I was sincere when I told 
you I would not go back, if I was recalled even to be all that I once was 
in the court, with the favour of the czar my master? Did you believe 
me, my friend, to be an honest man; or did you believe me to be a boast- 
ing hypocrite?" Here he slopped, as if he would hear what I would 
say ; but, indeed, £ soon afler perceived that he slopped because his spi- 
rits were in motion, his great heart was full of struggles, and he could not 
go on. I was, I confess, astonished at the thing as well as at the man, and 

. I used some arguments with him to urge him to set himself free ; that 
he ought to look upon ihis as a door opened by Heaven for his deliverance, 
and a summons by Providence, who has the care and disposition of all 
events, to do himself good, and to render himself useful in the world. 

He bad by this time recovered himself. ^' How do you know. Sir," 
says he warmly, ^' but that, instead of a summons from Heaven, it may 
be a ftinl of another instrument representing in alluring colours to me the 
show of felicity as a deliverance, which may in itself be my snare, and 
tend directly to my ruin ? Here I am free from the temptation of return- 
ing to my former miserable greatness; there lam not sure luit that all 
tlie seeds of pride, ambition, avarice, and luxury, which I know remain 
in nature, may revive, and take root, and, in a word, again overwhelm 
me; and then the happy prisoner, whom you see now master of his soul's 
liberty^ shall be the miserable slave of bis own senses^ in the full of all 



U% LIFE AND ADVBNTURES 

personal liberty. Dear Sir, let me remain In this bleised confinefB^At, 
banished from the crimes of life, rather than purchase d show of freedoto 
at the expense of the liberty of my reason, and at the future happiheM 
which I now have in my view, but shall then^ I fear, quickly lose sight of, 
for I am but flesh ; a man, a mere man^ have passions and affectiona as 
likely to possess and overthrow me as any man : O be not my friend and 
tempter both together !*' 

If I was surprised before, I was quite dumb imw^ and stood silent, 
looking at him, and, indeed, admiring what I saw. The struggle in bis 
soul was so great that, though the weather was extremely oold, it put him 
into a most violent sweat, and I found he wanted to give vent to his mind; 
so I said a word or two, that I would leave him to consider of it, and wait 
on him again, and then I withdrew to my own apartment. 

About two liours after, I heard somebody at or near the door of my 
room, and I was going to open the door, but he had opened it and come 
in. ^^ My dear friend," says he, **• you had almost overset me, but i am 
recovered. Do not take it ill that I do not close with your offer; I assure 
you it is not for want of sense of the kindness of it in you ; and I came to 
make the most sincere acknowledgment of it to you ; but I hope I hatre 
got the victory over myself.*'—" My lord," said I, *' I hope yoo are fiiUy 
satisfied that you do not resist the call of Heaven.'' — " Sir," said he, '4f it 
had been from Heaven, the same power would have influenced me to 
have accepted it : but I hope, and am folly satisfied, that it is fhM Heaven 
that I decline it; and I have infinite satisfaction in the parting, Hlat you 
shall leave me an honest man still, though not a free man." 

I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make professions to him Of 
my having no end in it but a sincere desire to serve htm. He embraced 
me very passionately, and assured me he was sensible of that, and shoilld 
always acknowledge it ; and with that be oflered me a very fine present 
of sables, too much, indeed, for me to accept from a man in hi^ circum- 
stances, and I would have avoided them, but he would not be refused. 

The next morning I sent my servant to his lordship with a small present 
of tea, and two pieces of China damask, and four little wedges of Japan 
gold, which did not all weigh above six ounces or thereabout?, but wei^ 
far short of the value of his sables, which, when I came to England, I 
found worth near two hundred pounds. He accepted the tea, and one 
piece of the damask, and one of the pieces of gold, which had afiAe 
stamp upon it, of the Japan coinage, which I found he took for the rarity 
of it, but would not take any more; and he sent word by my servant that 
he desired to speak with me. 

When I came to him, he told me 1 knew what had passed be- 
tween us, and hoped I would not move him any moire in that aflair ; Mt 
that, since t had made sudfi a generous offer to him, he asked me if 
t liad kindness enough to offer the same to another person that he 
would name to me, in whom he had a great share of concern. I told 
him that I could not say I inefined to do so much for any but himself, for 
whom I had a particular value, and should have been glad to have beeA 
the instrument of his deliverance; however, If he would please to name 
the person to me, .1 would give him my answer. He told me it was hb 
only son ; who, though I had not seen him, yet he wai in the same con^i- 



OF ROBINSON CKUSOE. 5*5 

tion with himself, and above two hundred miles from hlm^ on the otbfer 
side the Oby ; but that, if I consented, he would send for him. 

I made no hesitation, but told him I would do it. I made some c^li^- 
mony in letting him understand that it was wholly on his account; and 
that, seeing I could not prevail on him, I would show my respeet to him 
by my concern for his son ; but these things are too tedious to repeat her^. 
He sent away the next day for his son; and in about twenty days he cao^e 
back with the messenger, bringing six or seven horses loaded with Vefy 
rich furs, and which, in the whole, amounted to a very great valti^. 
His servants brought the horses into the town, but left the young lord H 
a distance till night, when he came incognito into our apartment^ and 
his father presented him to me, and, in short, we concerted the maimer 
of our travelling, and every thing proper for the journey. 

I had bought a considerable quantity of sables, black fbx-skins, fine 
ermines, and such other furs as are very rich in that city, in exchange for 
some of the goods I had brought from China ; in particular for the cloves 
and nutmegs, of which I sold the greatest part here, and the rest after- 
wards at Archangel, for a much better price than I could have got at 
London ; and my partner, who was sensible of the profit, and whose bu- 
siness, more particularly than mine, was merchandise, was mightily 
pleased with our stay, on account of the trafiBc we made here. 

It was the beginning of June when I left this remote place; a cily» I 
believe, little heard of in the world; and, indeed, it is so far out of the 
road of commerce, that I know not how it should be much talked of. We 
were now reduced to a very small caravan, having only thirty-two horste 
and camels in all, and all of them passed for mine, though my new guest 
was proprietor of eleven of them; it was most natural also that I should 
take more servants with me than I had before ; and the young lord passed 
for my steward ; what great man I passed for myself I know not, neither 
did it concern me to inquire. We had here the worst and the largest de- 
sert to pass over that we met with in our whAe journey ; I call it the 
worst, because the way was very deep in some places, and very uneven 
in others.; the best we had to say for it was, that we thought we had no 
troops of Tartars or robbers to fear, and that they never came on this side 
the river Oby, or at least but very seldom ; but we found it otherwise. 

My young lord had a faithful Siberian servant, who was perfectly ac- 
quainted with the country, and led us by private roads, so that we avoided 
coming into Che principal towns and cities upon the great road, such as 
Tomen^Soloy Kamskoi, and several others; because the Muscovite gar4* 
SODS which are kept there are very curious and strict in their observation 
upon travellers, and searching lest any of the banished persons of note 
should make their escape that way into Muscovy ; but by this means, as 
we were kept out of the cities, so our whole journey was a desert, and we 
were obliged to encamp and lie in our tents, when we might have had 
very good accommodation in the cities on the way : this the young lord 
was so sensible of, that he woi/id not allow us to lie abroad when we 
came to several cities on the vviiy, but lay abroad himself, with bis ser- 
vant, in the woods, and met as always at the appointed places. 

We werejiist entered Europe, having passed the river Kama, which ^ 
tliese parts is the boundary between Europe and Asia, and the first city 



544 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

OB the European side was called Soloy Kamskoi, which is as mnch as to 
say, the great city on the river Kama; and here we thought to see some 
evident alteration in the people; but we were mistaken; for as we had a 
vast desert to pass, which is near seven hundred miles long in some places, 
but not above two hundred miles over w here we passed it, so till we 
came past that hprrible place, we found very little difTerence between 
. that country and the Mogul Tartary : the people ar&mostly pagans, and 
little better than the savages of America ; their houses and towns full of 
idols, and their way of living wholly barbarous, except in the cities, as 
above, and the villages near them, where they are Christians, as they 
call themselves, of the Greek church ; but have their religion mingled 
with so many relics of superstition, that it is scarce to be known in some 
places from mere sorcery and witchcraft. 

In passing this fort st, I thought, indeed, we must ( after all our dangers 
were, to our imagination, escaped as before), have been plundered and 
robbed, and perhaps murdered, by a troop of thieves; of what country 
they were I am yet at a loss to know, but they were all on horseback, 
caiTied bows and arrows, and were at first about forty-five in number ; 
they came so near to us as to be within two musket shots, and, asking no 
questions, surrounded us with their horses, and looked very earnestly 
upon us twice : at length they placed themselves just in our way; u|>on 
. which we drew up in a little line, before our camels, being not above 
sixteen men in all ; and, being drawn up thus, we halted, and sent out 
the Siberian servant, who attended his lord, to see who they were : his 
master was the more willing to let him go, because he was not a lillle 
apprehensive that they were a Siberian troop sent out after him. The 
man came up nearer them with a flag of truce, and called to them : but 
though he spoke several of their languages, or dialects of languages 
rather, he could not understand a word they said ; however, after some 
signs to him not to come near to them, at his peril, the fellow came hack 
no wiser than he wen^ only that by their dress, he said, he believed 
them to be some Tartars of Kalmuck, or of the Circassian hordes, and 
thai there must be more of them upon the great desert, though he never 
heard that any of them were seen so far north before. 

About an hour after, they again made a motion to attack us, and rode 
round our little wood to see where they might break in ; but finding us 
"always ready to face them, they went off again; and we resolved not to 
stir for that night. 

This was small comfort to us; however, we had no remedy : there was, 
on our left hand, at about a quarter of a mile distance, a little grove, and 
*very near the road; I immediately resolved we should advance to those 
trees, and fortify ourselves as well as we could there; for, first, I con- 
iiidered that the trees would in a great measure cover us from their 
arrows; and, in the next place, they could not come to charge us in a 
body; it was, indeed, my old Portu?ruese pilot who proposed it, and who 
had this excellency attending him, that he was always readiest and most 
apt to direct and encourage us in cases of the most danger. We advanced 
immediately, with what speed we could, and gained that little wood ; 
the Tartars, or thieves, for we knew not what to call them, keeping their 
stand, and not aitempiing to hinder us. When we came thither, we 



6p kobinson causoE. W5 

(band, to our great satisfaction, that it was a swampy piece of ground, 
and on the one side a very great spring of water, which, ranning out in a 
little brook, was, a little farther, joined by another of the like size; and 
was, in short, the source of a considerable river, called afterwards the 
Wirlska ; the trees whicii grew about this spring were not above two 
hundred, but very large, and stood pretty thick, so that as soon as we 
got in we saw ourselves perfectly safe from the enemy unless they attacked 
us on foot. 

While we stayed here waiting the motion of the enemy some hours, 
without perceiving they made any movement, our Portuguese, with some 
help, cut several arms of trees half off, and laid them hanging across from 
one tree to another, and in a manner fenced us hi. About two hours 
before night they came down directly upon us : and, though we had not 
perceived it, we found they had been joined by some more of the same, so 
that ttiey were near fourscore horse; whereof, however, we fancied some 
were women. They came on till they were within half shot of our little 
wood, when we fired one musket witliout ball, and called to them in the 
Russian tongue to know what ihey wanted, and bade them keep off; but 
they came on with a double fury up to the wood side, not imagining we 
were so liarricaded that they could not easily break in. Our old pilot 
was our captain, as well as our engineer, and desired us not to fire upon 
them till they came within pistol shot, that we might be sure to kill; and 
that when we did fi!e we should be sure to take good aim; we bade him 
give the word of command, which he delayed so long, that they were 
some of them within two pikes' length of us when we let fly. We aimed 
ao true that we killed fourteen of them, and wounded several of their 
horses; for we had all of us loaded our pieces with two or three bullets 
at least. 

They were terribly surprised with our fire, and retreated immediately 
about one hundred rods from us, in which time we loaded our pieces 
again, and, seeing them keep that distance, we sallied out, and catched 
four or five of their horses, whose riders we supposed were killed ; and 
coming op to the dead, we judged they were Tartars, but knew not how 
they came to make an excursion such an unusual length. 

We slept little, you may be sure, but spent the most part of tlie night 
in strengthening our situation, and barricading the entrances into the 
wood, and keeping a strict watch. We waited for daylight, and when 
it came, it gave us a very unwelcome discovery indeed; for the enemy, 
who we thought were discouraged with the reception they niet with, 
were now greatly increased, and had set up eleven or twelve huts 
or tents, as if they were resolved to besiege us; and this little camp 
they had pitched upon the open plain, about three quarters of a mile 
from us. 

We were, indeed, surprised at this discovery ; and now, I confess, I 
gave myself over for lost, and all that I had ; the loss of my effects did 
not lie so near me, though very considerable, as the thoughts of falling 
into the hands of such barbarians, at tlie latter end of my journey, aftet 
80 many difficulties and hazards as I had gone through, and even in sight 
of our port, where we expected safety and deliverance. As to my 
paiiner, he was raging, and declared that to lose his goods would be his 



4« LIFE AND ABYENTUBtS 

rqin, and that he would raliier die than be starved; and he was for fight-' 
ing to the last drop. 

The yoang lord, a gallant youth, was for fighting to the last also; and 
my old pilot was of the opinion we were able to resist them all in the si- 
tuation we were then in; and thus we spent the day in debates of what 
we should do : but towards evening we found that the i number of our 
enemies slill increased, and we did not know hut by the morning they 
might still be a greater number; so I began to inquire of those people we 
had brought from Tobol&ki, if there were no private ways, by which we 
might avoid them in the night, and perhaps retreat to some town, or g^t 
help to guard us over the desert. The Siberian, who was servant to the 
young lord, told us, if we designed to avoid Ihem, and not fight, he would 
engage to carry us off in the night, to a way that went north, towards 
the river Pelrou, by which he made no question but we might get away, 
and the Tartars never the wiser : but, he said, his lord had toJd him h^ 
would not retreat, but would rather choose to fight. I told him he 
mistook his lord; for that he was too wise a man to love fighting for the 
sake of it ; that I knew his lord was brave enough, l)y what he had 
^owed already ; but that his lord knew better than to desire seventeen or 
dghteeii men to fight ^\e hundred, unless an unavoidable necessity 
forced them to it; and that, if he thought it possible for us to escape in 
Qie night, we had nothing else to do but to attempt it. He answered, if 
his lordship gave him such orders he would lose his life if he did not per- 
form it : we soon brought his lord to give that order, (hough privately, 
Kiid we inmiediately prepared for the putting it in practice. 

And, first, as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled a fire in oiu: 
little camp, which we kept burning, and prepared so as to make it burn 
kl\ night, that the Tartars might conclude we were still there; but as 
foon as it was dark, and we could see the stars (for our guide would not 
stir before) having all our horses and camels ready loaded, we followed 
Our new guide, who I soon found steered himself by the north star. 

After we had travelled two hours very hard, it began to be lighter 
^till; not that it was dark all night, but the moon began to rise, so that, 
in short, it was rather lighter than we wished it to be; hut by six o'clock 
|be next morning we were got above thirty miles, having almost spoiled 
6ur horses. Here we found a Russian village, named Kermazinskoy, 
Where We rested, and heard nothing of the Kalmuck Tartars that day. 
About two hours before night we set out again, and travelled t'dl eight 
the next mornmg, though not quite so hard as before; and about seven 
O'clock we passed a little river, called Kirtza, and came to a good larg^ 
town inhabited by Russians, called Ozomoys; there we heard that se- 
Teral troops of Kalmucks had been abroad upon the dosert, but that we 
were now completely out of danger of them, which was to our great sa- 
tisfaction. Here we were obliged to get some fresh horses; and, having 
need enough of rest, we stayed Rye days ; and my partner and I agreed 
to give the honest Siberian who brought us thither the value <S ten 



In five days more we came to Veuslima, upon the river Wirtzogda, 
^d running into the Dwina : we were there, very happily, near the end 
^f out travels hy land, that river J^g nayjgable, in sev^n days' pa«- 



OF AOBUVSON CRUSOE. M 

sage, to Archangel. From hence we came to Lawrenskoy the 8d of 
July : and, providing ourselves with two luggage boats, and a barge for 
our own convenience, we embarked the 7th, and arrived all safe at Arch- 
angel the 48th; having been a year, five months, and three days on the 
journey, including our stay of eight months at Tobolski. We were 
obliged to stay at this place six weeks for the arrival of the ships, and 
must have tarried longer had liot a Hamburgher come in above a month 
sooner that any of the English ships ; when, after some consideration 
that the city of Hamburgh might happen to be as good a market for our 
goods as London, we all took freight with him; and, having put our 
goods on board, it was most natural forme to put my steward on board to 
take care of them ; by which means my young lord had a sufQcient oppor- 
tunity to conceal himself, never coming on shore again all the time we 
stayed there; and this he did that he might not be seen in the city, where 
some of the Moscow merchants would certainly have seen and discovered 
him. 

We then set sail from Archangel the 20th of August, the same year; 
and, after no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived safe in the Elbe the 4 8th 
of September. Here my partner and I found a very good sale for our 
goods, as well those of China as the sables, etc. of Siberia; and dividing 
the produce, my share amounted to 54752. 47$. 3d. including about six 
hundred pounds worth of diamonds which I purchased at Bengal. 

Here the young lord took his leave of us, and went up the Elbe, in 
order to go to the court of Vienna, where he resolved to seek protection, 
and could correspond with those of his father's friends who were left 
alive. He did not part without testimonies of gratitude for the service I 
had done him, and his sense of my kindness to the prince his father. 

To conclude, having stayed near four months in Hamburgh, I came 
from thence by land to the Hague, where I embarked in the packet, and 
arrived in London the 4 0th of January, 4705; having been absent from 
England ten years and nine months. And here I resolved to prepare for 
a longer journey than all these, having lived a life of infinite variety 
seventy-two years, and learned sufficiently to know the value of retirement, 
and the blessing of ending our days in peace. 



THE END. 



PAINTED BT GASIMIR, 

12, ni« d« It YlelUe-MOBiMls, 



} 



