W- - - -. -. - -.-. . ■ — 


WCT^ '^m 






CM 

J- 





m 




-®. 



<r> 



M^ 



.^ 



1 



\' M'uv 



a^l* 






'•=^ 



n 



iVI 



'M 









.Vv 



Gettysburg College 
Library 

GETTYSBURG. PA. 



COOPER MEMORIAL 

This book is presented 

from the library of 

THOMAS Y. COOPER 

in affectionate memory 

of his parents 

M. COOPER. M. D. & 

KATE MILLER COOPER 



Accession /•^^^3/ 
c^hpiF nhRE BOOK ROOW 



"f-A -^= 




THE 

LIFE 

And Strange Surprizing 

ADVENTURES 

ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

Of rORK, Mariner: 

Who lived eight and twenty Years all alone in 
an un-inhabiced Ifland on the Coaft of America, 
near the Mouth of the Great River ofOroonoque ; 

Having been call on Shore by Shipwreck, where- 
in all the Men perifhed but himfelf. 

With an ACCOUNT how he was at laft a^ 
ftrangely deliver'd by Pyrates. 

Written by Himfelf. 



^f)e Jfourt!) (EDition* 



To which Is added a Map of the World, in which is 
Delineated the Voyages of RO BJl^ SON C RUSOE, 




LONDON: Printed for W. T aylor at the 
Ship in Pater- Nofer-Row. Mdccxix. 



T H E 



PREFACE, 

IF ever the Story of any private 
Man's Adventures in the 
World zvere worth making 
Tuhlick, and were acceptable 
when Vublijh'd^ the Editor of this 
Account thinks this will hefo. 

The Wonders of this Man's 
Life exceed all that (he thinks^ 
is to he found extant ; the Life of 
one Man being fcarce capable of 
agreater Variety. 

The Story is told with Modefly, 
with SerioufnefSj and with a reli- 
gious Application of Events to the 
Ufes to which wife Men always 
' ;■ apply 



The Preface. 

apply them f viz J to the InJtruHion 
of others by this Example, and to 
jufiify and honour the Wtjdom of 
Trovidence in all the Variety of 
our Circumstance s^ let them hap- 
pen how they 'will. 

The Editor believes the thing 
to be ajufi Hifiory of Fact ; nei- 
ther is their any Appearance oj 
Fiction in it ; And however 
thinks, becauJeaJlfuchThings are 
difputed, that the Improvement oj 
it, as well to the Diver jion, as 
to the Injiruffion of the Reader, 
wiU be the fame ; and asfuch, he 
thinks, without farther Compli- 
ment to the World, he does them 
a great Service in the Publica- 
tion. 

THE 




THE 



LIFE 



AND 



ADJ^ENTU RES 

O F 

Robinson Crusoe, &c 




Was born in the Year i6^2y in the 
Ckyo^Tork, of a good Family, tho' 
not of that Country, my Father be- 
ing a Foreigner o^Breman, who fettled 
firft at HuU : He got a good Eflate 
by Merchandize, and leaving oft his 
Trade, lived afterwards at Tork, from whencehe had 
married my Mother, whofe Relations were named 
Robinforiy a very good Family in that Couhtry, and 
from whom I was called RohinfonKreutznaer -^ but by 
the ufual Corruption of Words m England, we are 
now called, nay we call our feives, and write oui* 
Name07/yc>?,andfomyCdmpani6nsalways called me. 

B I ha4 



i had two elder Brothers, ofie of which wa^ 
Lieutenant Coilonel to an Englijh Regiment of Foot 
in Flanders^ formerly commanded by the famous 
Coil. Lockharty and was killed at the Battle neat* 
Dunkirk againfl the Spaniards : What became of my 
fecond Erotlier I never knew, any more than my Fa- 
ther or Mother did know what was become of me. 

Being the third Son of the Family, and not bred 
to any Trade, my Head began to be fiUM very ear- 
ly with rambling Thoughts : My Father, who 
was very ancient, had given me a competent Share 
of Learning, as far as Houfe-Education, and a 
Country Free- School generally goes, and defign'd 
me for the Law ; but I would be fatisfied with no- 
thing but going to Sea, and my Inclination to this 
led me fo flrongly againft the Will, nay, the Com- 
mands of my Father, and againft all the Entreaties 
and' Perfuafions of my Mother and other Friends, 
that there Teemed to be fomething fatal in that Pro- 
penfion of Nature tending directly towards the 
Life of Mifery which was to befal me. 

My Father, a wife and grave Man, gave me 
ferious and excellent Counfel againft what he fore-^ 
faw was my Defign. He called me one Morning in- 
to his Chamber, where he was confined by the 
Goutj and expoftulated very warmly with me up- 
on this Subject : He ask'd me what Reafons more 
than a meer wandring Inclination I had for leaving 
niy Father's Houfe and my native Country, where 
I might be v/eil introduced, and had a Profpecl 
of raifing my Fortune by Application and Indu- 
ftry, with a Life of Eafe and Pleafure. He told 
jne it was tor Men of defperate Fortunes on one 
Hand, or of afpiringj fuperior Fortunes oh the 
other, who went Abroad upon Adventures, to rife 
by Enterprize, and make themfclves famous in Un- 
dertakings of a Nature out of the common Road ; 

that 



. . in 

that thefe Things were all eithei- too far abbveme, 
pr too far below me ; that mine was the middle 
State, or what might be called the upper Station 
oi Low Life ^ which he had found by long Experi- 
ence was the beft State in the World, the mofi: 
fuited to human Happinefs, notexpofedto theMi- 
feries and Hardlhips, the Labour and Sufteringsof 
the m';^chanick Part of Mankind, and not emba- 
rafs'd with the Pride, Luxury, Ambition and En- 
vy of the upper Part of Mankind. He told me, t 
might judge oi the Happinefs of this State, by this 
one thing, ^ji:c. That this was the State of Life 
which all other People ehvied; that Kings have 
frequently lamented the miferable Confeqiiences of 
being born to great Things, and wifh they had 
been placed in the Middle of the two Extremes, 
between the Mean and the Great j that the wife 
Man gave his Teftimony to this as the juft Stan- 
dard of true Felicity, vv'hen he prayed to have nei- 
ther Poverty or Riches. 

He bid itie obferve it, and I fhould always find^' 
that the Calamities of Life were ftiared among the 
upper and lower Part of Mankind ; but that the 
middle Station had thd feweft Difaflers, and was, 
hot expos^'d to fo many Viciflitudes as the higher or 
lower Part of Mankind,* nay, they were not fubje- 
ded to fo many Diflempers and Uneafineffes either 
of Body or Mind, as thofe were, who by vicious 
Living, Luxury and Extravagancies on one Hand, 
or by hard Labour, want of Neceffaries, and mean 
or infuificient Diet oh the other Hand, bring Di- 
flempers upon themfclves by the natural Confequen- 
ces of their Way of Living ; T'hat the middle Sta- 
tion^of Life was calculated for all kind of Virtues 
and all kind of Enjoyments; that Peace and Plen- 
ty were the Hand-maids of a middle Fortune ; 
that Temperance, Moderation, Qinetnefs, Health, 

B 2 Society, 



[4l 



Society, all agreeable Diverfions, and all defirable 
Pleafures, were the BleiTings attending the middk 
Station of Life ; that this Way Men went filcntly 
and.fmoothly thro' the Worki, and comfortably out 
of it, nor embarafs'd with the Labours of the 
Hands or of the Head, not fold to the Life of Sla- 
very for daily Bread, or harafs'd with perpjcx'd 
Circumflances, which rob the Soul of Peace, and 
the Body of Refl ; not enrag'd with the Paflion of 
Envy, or fecret burning Lull of Ambition for 
great Things; btitineafy Circumflances Aiding- 
gently thro^ the World, and fenfibly tafting the 
Sweets of living, without the bkter, feeling that 
they are happy, and learning by every Day^s Ex- 
perience to ki\Qw it more fenfibly. 

After this, he prefs^d me earneftly, and in the 
lyioft afteftionate Manner, not to play the young 
Man, not to precipitate my felf into Miferies which 
"Nature, and the Station of Life I was born in,- 
feem'd to have provided againft ; that 1 was undcf 
no Neceflity of feeking my Bread; that he would 
do well for me, and endeavour to enter me fairly 
into the Station of Life which he had been juft re- 
<;ommending to me; and that if I was not very ea- 
fy and happy in the World, it mufl: be my mere 
Fate or Fault that muft hinder it, and that he 
Ihould have nothing to anfwcr for, having thiis dff- 
eharg'd his Duty in warning me againfl Meafurcs 
which he knew v/ould be to my Hurt : In a word, 
that as he would do very kind Things for me if 
I would ftay and fettle at Home as he directed, 
fb he would not have fo much Hand in my Misfor- 
tunes, as to give me any Encouragement to go n- 
way : And to.clofe all, he told mt I had my elder 
Brother for an Example, to whom he had ufcd 
the fameearncftPerfuarions to keep him from go- 
ing into the Low Country Wars^ but could not pre- 
vail 



[5 ] 



?i'ail, his young Defires ptomptiaig him to run into 
r^he Army where he was kill'd ; and tho' he faid 
he would not ceafe to pray for me, yet he would 
venture to fay to me, that if I did take this foolilk 
Step, God would not blefs me, and I would have 
Leifure hereafter to refled: upon having neglected 
his Council when there might be none to affift in 
my Recov^ery. 

I obferved in this lafi: Part <^f his DiTcourfe, 
which >va6 truly Prophetick, tho' I 'fuppofettiy Fa- 
ther did know it to be fo himfelf j I fay, I obfer- 
ved the Tears run /down his Face very plentifully, 
^nd efpecially when |ie fpoke of my Brother who 
was kiird ; and that when he fpoke of my having 
Leifure to repent, and none to afTfft me, he was 
fo mov'd, that he broke off the pifcourfe, an4 
told me, his Heart was fo full, be could fay nQ 
more to me. 

I was (iiKerely affe(fted with this Difcourfe, as 
indeed who could be otherwife ? And Jrefolv'd not 
to think of going Abroad any more, but to fettle 
fit Home according to my Father's Delire. But 
alas! a few Days wore it all off j and in fliort, to 
prevent any of, my Father's farther Importunities, 
in a few Wc^eks after, I refolv'd to run quite away 
from him. However, I did notad/o hastily neither 
^.s my iiril Heat oi RefolutioH prompted, but I took 
my Mother, at a Time when I thought her a little 
pleafanrer than ordinary, and told her, that my 
Thoughts were fo entirely bent upon feeing the 
World, that I (hould neverfettletoany Thing witJii 
Refolurion enough to go through with it, and my 
Father had better give me his Conlint than force 
me to go without it ; tiiat I was now eighteen 
Years old, which was too late co go Apprentice to 
a Trade, or Clerk to an Attorney i that I was furc, 
if I didj 1 fiiould never ferve out my Time, and I 

B 5 ftoulil 



16] 

fliould certainly run away from my Maftcr bcfpre. 
my Time was out, and go to Sea ; and if (he would 
fpeak to my Father to let me go one Voyage a- 
broad, if I came home again and did not like it, I 
would go no more, and I would promife by a dou- 
ble Dilligence to recover that Time I had lofl. 

This put my Mother into a great Paffion : She 
told me, fhe knew it would be to no Purpofe to 
fpeak to my Father upon any fuch Subject, that he 
knew too well what was my Intreft to give his Con- 
fent to iny fuch thing fo much for my Hurt, and that 
Ihe wondered how I could think of any fuch thing af- 
terfucha DifcourfeasI had had with my Father, and 
fuch kind and tender Expreifions as fhe knew my Fa- 
ther had us'd to me ; and that in fhort, ifl would 
ruin my felf there was no Help for me ; but I might 
depend I fhould never have their Confent to it : That 
for her Part (he would not have fo much Hand in my 
Deflruftion ; and I fhould never have it to fay, that 
my Mother was willing when my Father was not. 

Tho' my Mother refufed to move it to my Fa- 
ther, yet as I have heard afterwards, fhe reported 
all the Difcourfe to him, and that my Father af- 
ter (hewing a great Concern at it, faid to her with 
a Sigh, That Boy might be happy if he would 
flay at home, but if he goes abroad, he will be 
the moft miferableft Wretch that was ever born ; I 
can give no Confent to it. 

It was not till almoft a Year after this that I broke 
loofe, tho' in the mean time I contained obftinate- 
ly deaf to ail Propofals of fettling to Bufinefs, and 
frequently expoflulating with my Father and Mo- 
ther, about their being fo pofitively determined a~ 
gainft Vv'hat they knew my Inclinations prom.pted 
me to. But being one Day at HuS, where I went 
cafually, and without any Purpofe of making an 
Elopement that time j but T fay, being there, and 
'•''''■ ' one 



[7] 

one of my Companions being gone by Sea to Low 
douy in his Father's Ship, and prompting me to go 
with them, with the common Allurement of Seafa- 
ring Men, 1^/21.. That itfhpuldcofl me nothing for 
my Paflage, I confulted neither Father or Mother 
any more, nor fo much as fent them Word of it ; but 
leaving them to he ir of it as they might, without 
asking God's Blefling, or my Father's, without any 
Confideration of Circumflances or Confequences, 
and in an ill Hour, God knows, on the firll o^ Sep- 
tember i6^iy I went pn board a Ship bound for Lon- 
don; never any young Adventurer's Misfortunes, I 
believe, began fooner, or continued longer than mine. 
The Ship was no fopner gotten out of the Humher^ 
but the Wind began to blow, and the Sea to rif« 
in a moft frightful manner ; and as I had never 
been at Sea before, I was mofl inexpreflibie fick in 
jBody, and terrify 'd in my Mind : I began now fe- 
riouily to refled upon what I had done, and how 
jullly I was overtaken by the Judgment of Heaven 
For my wicked leaving my Father's Houfe, and a- 
bandoning my Duty i all the good Counfel of my 
Parents, my Father's Tears and my Mother's En- 
treaties came now frefh into my Mind, and my 
Confcience, which was not yet come to the Pitch 
of Hardnefs to which it has been fince, reproaeh'd 
me with the Contempt of Advice, and the Breach 
pf my Duty to God and my Father. 

All this while th& Storm encreas^d, and the Sea, 
which I had never been upon before, went very high, 
tho' nothing like what I haye feen many times 
flnce j no, nor like what I faw a fevv Days after : 
But it was enough to afed me then, who was but 
a young Sailor, and had never known a;iy thing of 
the Matter. I expeded every Wave would liuve 
fwallowed us up, and that every time the Ship "^^W 
down, as I thougiit, in the Trougii or Hpllow 

B 4 of 



[ H ] _ 

of the Sea, we fiiould never rile more ; and in thy$ 
Agony otMiiidi I made many Vows and Refolu- 
-tions, that if it would pleafe God here to fparc 
my Life this one Voyage, if ever I got once my 
Foot upon dry Land again, I would go diredly 
home to my Father, and never fet it into a Siiip a- 
gain while I liv'd ; that I would take his Advice, 
and never run my felf into fuch Miferics as thefc 
any more. Now I faw plainly the Goodnefs o^ 
his Obfervations about the middle Station of Life, 
how eafy, how comfortably he had liv'd all his 
Days, and never had been expos'd to Tempeftsat 
Sea, or Troubles on Shore ; and I refolv'd that I 
would, like a true repenting Prodigal, go home to 
my Father. 

Thefe wife and fober Thoughts continued all the 
while the Storm continued, and indeed fome time 
after ; but the next Day the Wind was abated 
and the Sea calmer,and I began to be a little innur'd 
to it : However I was very grave for all that Day, 
being alfo a little Sea lick ii.W ; but towards Night 
the Weather cleard up, the Wind was quite over, 
and a charming fine Evening follow'di the Sun went 
down perfedly clear, and rofe fo the next Morning ; 
and having little or no Wind, and a fmooth Sea, 
the Sun Aliening upon it, the Sight was, asl thought, 
the mod delightful that ever I faw. 
' I had flept well in the Night, and was now no 
more Sea lick, but very chearfu', looking with 
Wonder upon the Sea that was fo rough and terri- 
ble the Day before, and could be fo calm and fo 
pleafant in' fo little time after. And now leafl my 
good Refolutionsfhould continue, my Companion, 
who had indeed entic'd me away, comes to me, 
IVelJy Bob, fays he, clapping me upon the Shoulder, 
''Hgw do you do after it ? I warrant you "(vsre frighted^ 
V^cCnt you lafl Night', when it blew but a Cap full of 

'^■- ' ^ ^ mud?: 



[9] 

l^ind 1 A Cap full d'you call it / faid I, hv?as a tm-h 
hie Storn^: A Stormy you Fool you ^ replies he, do you 
call that a Storm ^ Vohy it ivas nothing at all; give us but 
a good Ship and Sea-room^ and iJ^e think nothing offuch 
a Squal of Wind cis that; but you're but afrejhJVater 
Sailor y Bob; come let us make a Bowl of Punch and 
v:e II forget all that ; d'ye fee ijohat charming Weather \i$ 
now ? To make fhort this fad Part of my Story, 
we went the old way of all Sailors, the Punch was 
made, and I was made drunk with it, and in that 
one Night's Wickednefs I drowned all my Repen- 
tance, all my Reflections upon my paft Condud, 
and all my Refolutions for my future. In a word, 
as the Sea was returned to its Smoothnefs of Sur- 
face and fettled Calmnefs by the Abatement of that 
Storm, fo the Hurry of my Thoughts being over, 
my Fears and Apprehenfions of being fwallow'd up 
by the Sea being forgotten, and the Currant of my 
former Defires returned, I entirely forgot the Vows 
and Promifes that I made in my Diftrefs. I found 
indeed fomelntervails of Refledion, and the ferious 
Thoughts did, as it were, endeavour to return a- 
gain fometimes, but I (hook them off, and rouz'd 
myfelffrom them as it were from a Diftemper, 
and applying myfelf to Drinking and Company, 
foon mafler'd the Return of thofe Fits, for fo I 
call'd them, and I had in five or fix Days got as 
compleat a Victory over Confcience as any young 
Fellow that refolv'd not to be troubled with it, 
could defire : But I was to have another Trial for 
it flill; and Providence, as in fuch Cafes generally 
it does, refolv'd to leave me entirely without Excufc. 
For if I would not take this for a Deliverance, the 
next was to be fuch a one the as word and moll 
har<len*d Wretch among us would confefs both the 
Danger and the Mercy. 

' '■ " ' The 



[ 10 ] 

The fixth Day of our being at Sea we ^ame in^ 
to Xurmotith Roads ; the Wind having been contra^ 
ry, and the Weather calm, we had made but little 
Way iince the Storm. Here we were obliged to 
come to Anchor, and here we lay, the Wind con-? 
tinuing contrary, I//21.. at South-weft, for feven or 
eight Days, during which time a great many Ships 
from j^eivcafik came into the fame Roads, as the 
common Harbour where the Ships might wait for 
a Wind for the River. 

We had not however rid here fo long, but fhould 
have Tided it up the River, but that the Wind 
blew too frefh ; and after we had Jain four or five 
Days, blew very hard. However, the Roads be- 
ing reckoned as good as a Harbour, the Anchorage 
good, and our Ground-Tackle very flrong, our 
Men were unconcerned, and not in the leaft appre- 
henfive of Danger, but fpent the Time in Rei^ and 
Mirth, after the manner of the Sea ; but the eighth 
Day in the Morning, the Wind increafed, and we 
had all Hajids at VVork to ftrike our Top-Mafts, 
and make every thing fnug and clofe, that the Ship 
might ride as eafily as polTible. By Noon the Sea 
went very high indeed, and our Ship rid Forecaflk 
in, fhippM feveral Seas, and we th'pught once or 
twice our Anchor had come home ; upon which 
our Mafter order'd out the Sheet Anchor ; fo that 
we rode with two Anchors a- head, and the Cables 
vered out to the better End. 

By this Time it blew a terrible Storm indeed^ 
and now I began to fee Terror and Amazement in 
the Faces even of the Seamen thcml'e! vcs. The Ma- 
fter, tho' vigilant in the Bufinefs of prcferving the 
Ship, yet as he went in and out of his Cabin by 
me, I could hear him foftly to himfelf fay feveral 
times. Lord be mercijul to us, ive jhall be aH lofi, we 
jhall be all undone I and the like. During thefe firft 

Hurries^ 



[ "] 



Hurries, I was ftupid, lying fiill in my Pabin, 
which was in the Steerage, and cannot defcribe my 
Temper: I couid ill re-affume the firfl Penitence 
which I had fo apparently trampled upon, and har- 
den'd myfelf againft : I thought the Bicternefs of 
Death had been paft,- and that this would be no- 
thing too like the firfl. But when the Mafler him- 
felf came by me, as I faid jufl: now, and faid we 
fhould be all lofl, I was dreadfully frighted : I got 
up out of my Cabin, and look'd out ; but fuch a 
difmalSight I never faw : The Sea went Mountains 
high, and broke upon us every three or four Mi- 
nutes : When I could look about, II could fee no- 
thing but Diflrefs round us : Two Ships that rid 
near us, we found, had cut their Mafls by the 
Board, being deep loaden ; and our Men cry^d out, 
that a Ship which rid about a Mile a-Head of us 
was foundered. Two more Ships being driven from 
their Anchors, were run out of the Roads to Sea, 
at all Adventures, and that with not a Mall iland- 
ing. The light Ships fared the befl, as not fomuch 
labouring in the Sea ; but two or three of them 
drove, and came clofe by us, running away with 
only their Sprit-fail out before the Wind. 

Towards Evening the Mate and Boatfwain 
begg'd the Matter of our Ship to let them cut a- 
way the Fore-mafl, which he was \xry unwilling 
to : But the Boatfwain protefled to him that if he 
did not, the Ship would founder, he confented ; 
and when they had cut away the Fore-mafI:, the 
Main mail flood fo looie, and fhook the Ship fo 
much, they were obliged to cut her away alfo, and 
make a clear Deck. 

Any one may judge what a Condition I mufl be 
in at all this, who was but a young Sailor, and 
who had been in fuch a Fright before at but a lit- 
tle. But if I can exprefs at this Diflance the 

Thoughts 



C li] 

Thoughts I had about mp at that time, I was in 
tenfold more Horror of Mind upon Account of ipy 
tbrmer ConviSions, and the having returned from 
them to the Refolutions I had wickedly taken at hrft, 
then I was at Death itfelf; andthefe, added to the 
Terror of the Storm, put me in fuch a Condition, 
that I can by no words defcribe it. But the worfl 
•ivasto come yet, the Storm cont* ed with fuch 
Fury, that the Seamen themfelvti, :knowledged 
they had never known a worfe. We had a good Ship, 
but (he was deep loaden, and wallowed in the Sea, 
that the Seamen every now and then cried out, ihe 
would founder. It was my advantage in one refpccl, 
that I did not know what they meant by founder^ 
till I enquired. However, the Storm was fo vio- 
lent, that I faw what is not often fcen, the Mafter, 
the Boatfwain, and fome others more fenlible than 
the reft, at their Prayers, and expedfng every Mo- 
ment when the Ship would go to the Bottom. In 
the Middle of the Night, and under all the reft of 
our Piftrefl'es, one of the Men that had been 
down on Purpofe to fee, cried out we had fprung a 
l-eak ; another faid there was four Foot Water in 
the Hold. Then all Hands were called to the Pump, 
At that very Word my Heart, as I thought, died 
within me, and I fell backwards upon the Side of 
my Bed where I fat, into the Cabin. However, 
the Men rouzed me, and told me, that I that was 
able to do nothing before, was as well able tQ 
pump as another; at which I ftirrM up, and went 
to the Pump and work'd very heartily. While thi$ 
was doing, the Mafter feeing fome light Colliers, 
who not able to ride out the Storm, were oblig'd 
to flip and run away, to Sea, and would come near 
us, ordered to fire a Gun as a Signal of Diftrefs. I 
who knew nothing what that meant, was fo furpri- 
zed, that I thought the Ship had brpkcj, or fome 

dread- 



[ n i 

dreadful Thing happen^. In a v/ord, I was fo fur- 
priz'dj that I fell down in a Swoon. As this was 
a Time when every Body had his own Life to 
think of, no Body minded me, or what was become 
of me ; but another Man ftept up to the Pump, and 
thrufting me aiide with his Foot, let me iKy thin- 
king I had been dead ; and it was a great while 
before I came to myfelf. 

V/e work'd on, but the Water encreafing in the 
Hold, it was apparent that the Ship would founder, 
and tho' the Storm began to abate a little, yet as 
it was not poffible fhe could fwim ''till we might run 
into a Port, fo the Mafler continuM firing Guns for 
Help; and a light Ship who had rid it out juft a 
Head of us, venturM a Boat out to help us. It 
was with the utmoft Hazard the Boat came near 
us, but it was impoillble for us to get on Board, 
or for the Boat to lie near the Ship Side, "till at laiV 
the Men rowing very heartily, and venturing their 
Lives to fave ours, our Men caft them a Rope over 
the Stern with a Buoy to it, and then vered it out 
a great Length, which they after great Labour and 
Hazard took hold of, and we haulM them clofe un- 
der our Stern, and got all into their Boat. It was 
to no Purpofe for them or us after v/e were in the 
Boat to think of reaching to their own Ship, fo all 
agreed to let her drive, and only to pull her in to- 
wards Shore, as much as we could, and our Mailer 
promis'dthem. That if the Boat was Aav'd upon 
Shore, he would make it good to their Mafter, (o 
partly rowing and partly driving, our Boat went 
away to the Norward, floapingtov/ards the Shore, 
almoil as far as lVintcrton-N(^fs, 

VVe were nor much more than a quarter of an 
Hour out of our Ship but we faw iier /Ink, and 
theni underftcod forthefirft Time what was meant 
by a Ship loundernginthe Sea; I mull acknow- 
ledge 



[ ^4 ] 

ledge 1 Had hardly Eyes to look up when the Sei- 
men told me (he was (inking , for from that Mo- 
ment they rather put me into the Boat than that I 
mi^ht be faid to go ih, my Heart was as it were 
dead within me; partly with Fright, partly with 
Horror of Mind, and che Thoughts oi what ^vas 
yet before me. 

While we were in this Condition, the Men yet 
labouring at the Oar to bring the Boat near the 
Shore, we could fee, when our Boat mounting the 
V/aves, we were able to fee the Shore; a great 
many People running along the Stand to a(rift u^ 
when we (hbuld come near, but we made but flow 
way towards the Shore, nor were we able to reach 
the Shore, till being paft the Light-Houfe at tVm- 
tertofty the Shore falls off to the VV'eftward towards 
Cmner, and fo the Land broke off a little the Vio- 
lence of the Wind: Here we got in, and tho' not 
without much Difficulty got all fafe on Shore, and 
walk'd afterv/ards on Foot to Tar?nouthy where, as 
unfortunate Men, we were ufed with great Huma- 
nity, as well by the Magiftrates b( the Town,, who 
a(rign'd us good Quarters, as by particular Mer- 
chants and'Owners of Ships, and had Money gi- 
ven us fuificient to carry us either to Londufi, or- 
back to Hull, as we thought fit. 

Had I now had the Senfe to have gone back to 
Hully and have gone Home, I had been happy, and 
mv Father, an Emblem of our blcffed Saviour's Pa- 
rable, had even kili'd the fatted Calf for me j for 
hearing the Ship I went away in, was cafl away iri 
Tarmouth Road, it was a great while before he had 
any Aflurance that I was not drown'd. 

But my ill Fate pufh'd me on now with an Ob- 
ftinacy that nothing could refill: ; and tho' I had fe- 
veral times loud Calls from my Reafon and my 
more compoied Judgment to go home, yet I had 

no 



[I5l 

no Power to do it. I know not what to call this, ndr 
will I urge, that it is a fecret over-ruling Decree 
that hurries us on to be the Inftruments of our own 
Deflrudion, even tho'it be before us, and that we 
pufh upon it with our Eyes open. Certainly nd^ 
thing but fome fuch decreed unavoidable Mifery 
attending, and which it was impolTible for me to 
efcape, could have pufti'd me forward againft the 
calm Reafonings and Perfuafions ot my moft re- 
tired Thoughts, and againfl two fuch vifible In- 
ftrudions as I had met with in my firll Attempt. 

My Comrade, who had help'd to harden me be- 
fore, and who was the Mailer's Son, was now kfs 
forward than 1; the firft time he fpoke to me after 
we were at Tarmouth, which was not till two or 
three Days, for we were feparated in the Town 
to feveral Qiiarters j I fay, the firft time he faw me, 
it appeared his Tone was altered, and looking very 
melancholy, and fhaking his H^ad, ask'd me how 
I did, and telling his Father who I was, and how 
I had come this Voyage only for a Tryal, in order 
to go farther abroad ; his Father turning to me 
with a very grave and concern'd Tone, TomgMan, 
fays he, you ought never to go to Sea any more, you ought 
to take this for a plain and vifihle "Token that you are 
not to be a Seafaring Man. Why, Sir faid I, will you 
go to Sea no more? That is another Cafe^ faid he, 
It is my Calling, and therefore my Duty ,* but as. you made 
this Voyage] or a Tryal, you fee v:hat a Tafle Heaven has 
given you of what you are to expeB ifyouperfifl ; perhaps 
thts is all befallen us on your Account, like Jonah in the 
67;//? c/ Tarfhifh. Fray, continues h^y li'hat are you '^ 
And on ijchat Accouut did you go to Sea ^ Upon that I 
told him fome of my Story ; at the End of which he 
burll out witli a ffrange kind oF PafTion, What had 
Idone, fays he, that fuch an unhappy Wreteh fhould 
come into my Ship -, I would not fet my Foot in 

the 



t Ki] 



the fame Ship with thee again fcr a thonfand 
Pounds. This indeed was, as I iiiid, an Excurliori 
of his Spirits, which were yet agitated by theSenfe 
of his Lofs, and was farther than he could have 
Authority to go. However, he afterwards talked 
very gravely lo me, exhorted me to go back to my 
Father, and not tempt Providence to my Ruin ; 
told me I might fee a vifible Hand of Heaven a^ 
gainft me : And young Man^ faid he, depend upon it; 
if you do not go back^ where- ever you go, you will meet 
mth nothing butDifajiers and D if appointments ^ till your 
Father s IVords are Jul filled upon you. 

We parted foon after ; for I made him little An- 
fwer, and I faw him no more , which way he wenti 
I know not. As for me, having fome Money ih 
my Pocket, I travelled to London by Land ; and 
there, as well as on the Road, had many Struggles 
with myfelf, what Courfe of Life 1 (hould take^ 
and whether I fhould go Home, or go to Sea. 

As to going Home, Shame oppofed the beft 
Motions that offered to my Thoughts ; and it im- 
mediately occur'd to me how I fhould beJaugh'd 
at among the Neighbours, and fliould be afham'd 
to fee, not my Father and Mother only, but even 
every Body elfe i from whence I have fince often 
obferved, how incongruous and irrational the com-^ 
men Temper of Mankind is efpecially of Youth, 
to that Reafon which ought to guide them in fuch 
Cafes, i/Zz.. That they are not afliam'd to lin, and 
yet are aftiam'd to repent i norafham'dof the Adi- 
on,for which they ought juflly to be efteemed Fools, 
but are afham'd of the Returning, which only can 
make them be efteem'd wife Men. 

In this State of Life, however, I remainM fome 
time, uncertain what Meafures to take, and what 
Courfe of Life to lead. An irrefiihble Rcludlance 
continued to going Home ; and as 1 fiay'd a whiles 

th0 



C 17 ] 

the Remembrancs of the Diftrefs I had been in 
wore oil'; and as that abated, the httle Motion I 
had in my Defires to a Return wore off with it, till 
at laft I quite laid afide the Thoughts of it, and 
look'd out for a Voyage. 

That evil Influence which carried me fird away 
from my Father's Houfe, that hurried me into the 
wild and indigeded Notion of railing my Fortune, 
and that imprert thofe Conceits foTorcibly upon 
me, as to make me deaf to ail good Advice, and 
to the Entreaties, and even Command of my Fa- 
ther: I fay, the fame Influence, whatever it was, 
prefcnted the moft unfortunate of all Enterprizes 
to my View ; and I went on Board a Veflel bound 
to the Coaft of Africa^ or as our Sailors vulgarly 
call it, a Voyage to Guiney. 

It was my great Misfortune that in all thefe 
Adventures I ciid not fhip my felf as a Sailor, 
whereby tho'' indeed I might have work'd a little 
harder than ordinary, yet at the fame time I had 
learn 'd the Duty and Office of a Fore ma ft- man, 
and in Time might have qualify'd my felf for a 
Mate or Lieutenant, if not for a Mafter. But as 
it was always my Fate to chufe for the worfe, 
fo I did here, for having Money in my Pocket, 
and good Cloaths upon my Back, I would always 
go on Board in the Habit of a Gentleman, and fo 
I neither had any Bufinefs in the Ship, or learn'd 
to do any. 

It was my Lot firft of all to fall into pretty gocfd 
Company in London^ which does not always hap- 
pen to fuch loofe and unguided young Fellows as I 
then was, the Devil generally not omitting to lay 
fome Snare for them very early ,* but it was not {o 
with me, I firft fell acquainted with the Mafter of 
a Ship who had been on the Coaft oi Guiney, and 
who having had very good Succefs there, was re- . 

C folved 



[ i8]^ 

folved to go again ; and who taking a Fancy to my 
Converfation, which was not all difagreeable at 
that time, hearing me fay I had a mind to fee thee 
World, told me, if I wou'd go the Voyage with 
him, 1 mould be at no Expence -, I. fhould be his 
Mefs-mate and his Companion, and if I could car- 
ry any Thii-g with me, I flioiild have all the Ad- 
vantage of It that the Trade would admit ; and 
perhaps 1 might meet with fome Encouragement. 

lembracMthe Offer, and entring into a ilrid 
Fricndfhip with this Captain, who w^as an honcft 
and plain-dealing Man, I went the Voyage with 
him, and carried afmall Adventure with me, wliich 
by the dilinterefled Honefty of my Friend the Cap- 
tain, I increaied very confiderably ; for carried a- 
bout 40 /.in (uch Toys and Trifles as the Captain 
direded me to buy. This 40 /. I had muflered to- 
gether by the All] fiance of fome of my Relations 
whom I eorrefponded with, and who, I believe, 
got my Father, or at leaft my Mother, to contri- 
bute fo much as that to my Hrft Adventure. 

This vv'-as the only Voyage which I may fay was 
fuccefshil in all my Adventures, and which I owe to 
the Integrity 2nd Honeily of my Friend the Cap- 
tain, under whom alfo, I got a competent Know- 
ledge of the Marhematicks, and the Rules of Na- 
vigation, learn'd how to keep an Account of the 
Ship's Courlc, take an Obfervation ; and in fhort, 
to underdand fome Things that were needful to be 
underilood by a Sailor : For, as he took Delight to 
introduce me, I took Delight to learn ; and, in a 
V/ord, this Voyage made me both a Sailor and a 
Merchant : Foi 1 brought home 1. 5. 5> Ounces of 
Gold Dufi for my Adventure, which yielded me in 
Londuriy at my Return, almoft 300 /. and this hii'd 
me With chofe afpiring Thoughts which have fince 
fo com pleated my Rnm. 

Yet 



[19] 

Yer even in this Voyage I had my Misfortunes 
too ; particularly, that I was continually fick, be- 
ing thrown into a violent Calenture by the excefTive 
Heat of the Climate ,• our principal Trading being 
upon the Coaft, from the Latitude of 15 Degrees, 
North even to the Line itfelf. 

1 was now fet up for a Guiney Invader ; and my 
Friend, tomygreat Misfortune, dying foon after his 
Arrival, I refolv'd to go the fame Voyage again, 
and I embark'd in the fame Veflel with one who was 
his Mate in the former Voyage, and had now got 
the Command of the Ship. This was the unhap- 
pieft Voyage that ever Man made ,* for tho' I did 
not carry quite 100/. of my new gain'd Wealth, 
fo that I had 200 /. left, and which I lodg'd with 
my Friend's Widow, who was very jufl to me, yet 
I tell into terrible Misfortunes in this Voyage ; and 
the firft v^as this, 1^/2:.. Our Ship making her Courfe 
towards the Canary lilands, or rather between thofe 
Iflands and the African Shore, was furprized in the 
Grey in the Morning, by a Turkijh Rover of Salke^ 
who gave Chafe to us with all the Sail flie could 
make. We crowded alfo as much Canvafs as our 
Yards would fpread, or our Mafls carry, to have 
got clear ; but finding the Pirate gain'd upon us, 
and would certainly come up with us in a few 
Hours, we prepared to fight ,* our Ship having 1 2 
Guns, and the Rogue 18. About three iuthe Af- 
ternoon he came up with us, and bringing too by 
Miftake, jufl athwart our Qiiarter, inftead of a- 
thwart our Stern, as he intended, wc brought 8 of 
our Guns to bear on- that Side, and pour'd in a 
Broadfide upon him, which made him fheer off a- 
gain, after returning our Fire, and pouring in alfo 
his fmall Shot from near 200 Men which he had cm 
Board. However, we had not a Man touched, all 
our Men keeping clofe. He prepared to attack us 

C 2 again 



[zo] 

again, and we to defend our felves ; but laying tis^ 
on Board the next time upon our other Qiiarrery 
he entered iixcy Men upon our Decks, who imme- 
diately fell to cutting and hacking the Decks and 

R^gb^"t^' ^^ P^y'^ ^^^^"^ ^^'^^^ Small-Shot, Half- 
Pikes, Powder-Chefts^ and fuch like, and cleared 
our Deck of them twice. However, to cut fhort 
this melancholy Part of our Story, our Ship being 
difabled, and three of our Men kill'd, and eight 
wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were car- 
ry^ all Prifoners into Sal/ee, a Port belonging to- 
the Alccrs. 

The Ufage I had there w^as not fo dreadful as at 
firft I apprehended, nor was I carried up the Coun* 
try to the Emperor's Court, as the refl of our Men 
were, but was kept by the Captain of the Rover, 
as his proper Prize, and made his Slave, being 
young and nimble, and fit for his Bufinefs. At this 
furprizing Change of my Circumflances from a 
Merchant to a miierable Slave, I was perfeftly o- 
verwhelmedf and now I looked back upon my Fa- 
ther's prophetick Difccurfe to me, that I fliould be 
miferable, and have none to relieve me, which I 
thought was now fo effedually brought to pafs, that 
it could not be worfe ,• that now tlie Hand of Hea- 
ven had overtaken me, and 1 was undone without 
Redemption. But alafs ! this was but a Tafte of 
the Miferyl was to go thro^, as will appear in the 
Sequel of this Scory. 

As my new Patron or Mafter had tak^en me Home 
to his Houfe, fo I was in Hopes that he would take 
me with him when he went to Sea again, believ- 
ing that it would (ome time or other be his Fate 
to be taken by a Spaniih or Portugal Man of War ; 
and that then I fhould be fet at Liberty. But this 
Hope of mine was foon taken away ; for when he 
went to Sea, he left me on Shore to- lock after his 

little 



little Garden, and do the common Drudgery of 
Slaves about his Houfe ; and when he came home 
again from his Criiife, he order'd mc to lie in the 
Cabin to look after the Ship. 

Here I meditated nothing but my Efcape; and 
what Method I might take to effed it, but found no 
Way that had the lead Probability in it : Nothing 
presented to make the Suppofition of it rational ; 
for I had no Body to communicate it to, that 
would embark with me ; no Fellow-Slave, no Eng- 
lij]} Man, Ivijh Man, or Scotch Man there but my 
felf; fo that for two Years, tho'I often pleafedmy 
felf with the Imagination, y^x. I never had theleail 
encouraging Profped of putting it in Pradice. 

After about two Years, an oddCircumftancepre- 
fenteditfelf, which put the old Thought of ma- 
king fome Attempt for my Liberty, again in my 
Head : My Patron lying at home longer than ufual, 
without ^ting out his Ship, which, as I heard, 
was for want of Money ; he ufed conftantly, once 
or twice a Week, iometimes oftner, if the Wea- 
ther was fair, to rake the Ship's Pinnace, and go 
out into the Road afifliing ; and as he always took 
me and a young Marefco with him to row the Boat, 
we made him very merry, and I prov'd very dex- 
terous in catching Fifh; infomuch that fometimes 
he would fend me with a Moor, one of his Kinf- 
men, and the Youth the Marefco^ as they call^ 
him, to catch a Difli of FiQi for him. 

It happened one time, that going a fifhing in a 
flark caJm Morning, a Fog rofe fo thick, that tho* 
we were not half a League from the Shore we loft 
Sight of ill and rowing we knew not whither or 
which Way, we labour'd all Day and all the next 
Night, and when the Morning came we found we 
had puU'd off to Sea inftead of pulling in for the 
Shore j and that we were at leaft two Leagues from 
C 3 the 



the Shore: However, we got well in again, tho 
with a great deal of Labour, and fome Danger; 
for the Wind began to blow pretty frefh in the 
Morning ; but particularly we were all very hungry. 

But our Patron, warn'd by this Difafter, refolved 
to take more Care of himfelt" for the future ; and 
having lying by him the Long-Boat of our Englifi 
Ship they had taken, he refolved he would not go 
a filbing any more without a Compa fs and and fome 
Provifion ; To he ordered the Carpenter of his 
Ship, who alfo v/as an Englijh Slave, to build a lit- 
tle State- Room or Cabin in the middle of the 
Long-Boat, like that of a Barge, v^^ith a Place to 
ftand behind it to fleer and hale home the Main- 
fhcet; and Room before for a Hand or two to 
ftand and work the Sails? She QiiVd with that we 
call z Shoulder of Mutton Sail; and the Boom 
.gib'd over the Top of the Cabin, which lay very 
fnug and Iovt, and had Room in it for him to lie, 
with a Slave or two, and a Table to ear on> with 
feme fmall Lockers ro put in fome Bottles 6f fuch 
Liquor as he thought fit to drink ', particularly 
his Bread, Rice and Coftc'C. 

We went frequently out with this Boat afifhing, 
and as I was mod dextious to catch Filh for him, 
he never went witiiOat me : It happen'd chat he 
had appointed to go out in this Boat, cither for 
Picafjre or for Fifli, with two or three Moors o^ 
fonie D.fiindicn in that Pkice, and for whom he 
had provided eAtniordinarilyj and had tlicrefore 
{ent on Board the Boat over Night, a larger Store 
ot ProVidons than ordinary; and had orderM me 
to get ready three Fuzees with Powder and Shot, 
wh.ch were on Board his Ship ; for that they de- 
fign'd fome Sport of Fowhngas well as Fifhing. 

"^I got all Things ready as he had directed, and 
wairea tiie next Morning with the Boat, waflied 



clean^ 



^ean, her Antfent and Pendants out, and every 
thing to accommodate his Giiefts j when by and 
by my Patron came on Board alone, and told me 
his Giiefts had put off going, upon fome Bufinefs 
that fell out, and ordered me with the Man and 
Boy, as iifiial, to go out with the Boat and catch 
them fome Fifh, for that his Friends were to fup 
at his Houfe ; and commanded that as foon as I 
had got fome Fifh I fhould bring it home to his 
Houfe ; all which I prepaid to do. 

This Moment my former Notions of Delive- 
rance darted into my Thoughts, for now 1 found I 
was like to have a little Ship at my Command ; and 
my Mafler being gone, I prepared to furnifh my 
felf, not for a fifhing Bufinefs, but for a Voyage ; 
tho' I knew nor, neither did i fo much as confider 
whither I fhould fleer ; for any where to get out 
of that Place was my Way. 

My firfl Contrivance was to make a Pretence to 
fpeak to this Moor, to get fomething for our Sub- 
fiflence on Board; for I told him we mufl not pre- 
fume to eat of our Patron's Bread; he faid, that 
was true ; fo he brought a large Basket of Rusk 
or Bisket of their kind, and three Jarrs with frefh 
Water into the Boat ; I knew where my Patron's 
Cafe of Bottles flood, which it was evident by 
the Make were taken out o^fomc Englijh Prize; and 
I conveyM them into the Boat while the Moor was 
on Shore, as if they had been there before, for our 
Mafler : I convey 'd aifo a great Lump of Bees- 
Wax into the Boat, which weighed above half a 
hundred Weight, with a Parcel of Twine or 
Thread, a Hatchet, a Saw, and a Hammer, all 
which were of great Ufe to us afterwards, efpe- 
cially the Wax to make Candles. Another Trick 
I try'd upon him, which he innocently came into 
alfo ; his Name was Ifmael, who they call Muly^ 

C 4 or 



or Moely, fol call'd to him, Moely^ faicl I, our Pa- 
tron's Guns are on Board the Boat, can you not 
get a little Powder and Shot, it may be we may 
killfome Alcmmes (a Fowl like our C«//V/;j-) for our 
felves, for I know he keeps the Gunner's Stores in 
the Ship? Yes, fays he. Til bring fome; and ac- 
cordingly he brought a great Leather Pouch which 
held about a Pound and half of Powder, or rather 
more ; and another with Shot, that had five or fix 
Pound, with fome Bullets; and put all into the 
Boat ; At the fame time I had tound fome Powder 
of my Mafler's in the great Cabin, with which I 
fiil'd one of the large Bottles in the Cafe, which 
was almoft empty j pouring wliat was in it into a- 
nother: And thus furnifhed with ever thing need- 
ful, we fail'dout of the Port to fifli : The Caftle, 
which is at the Entrance of the Port, knew who wc 
were, and took nolSlotice of us ; and we were not 
above a Mile out of the Port before w^e hal'd in our 
Sail, and fet us down to fifh : The Wind blew from 
the N. NE. which was contrary to my Defire ; for 
had it blown Southerly, I had been fure to have 
made the Coaft of Spain^ and at leafi: reach'd to the 
Bay of Cadiz,; but my Refolutions were, blow 
which way it wou'd, I would be gone from that 
horrid Place where I was, and leave the reft to Fate. 
After we had fiOi'd fome time and catch'd no- 
thing, for when I had Fifh on my Hofik, I would 
not pull them up, that I might not fee them ; Ifaid 
to the Moor, this will not do, our Mafter will not 
be thus ferv'd, we muft ftand farther off: He think- 
ing no Harm agreed, and being in the Head of the 
Boat fet the Sails.; and as I had the Helm I run 
the Boat out near a League farther, and then 
brought her too as if I would fifh, when giving 
the Boy the Helm, I ftept forward to where the 
Moor was, and making as if I ftoop'd for fome- 

thing 



[15] 

thing behind him, I took him by furprizc with my 
Arm under his Twifl, and toft him clear over- 
board into the Sea ; he rife immediately, for he 
fwam like a Cork, and call'd to me, beggM to be 
taken in, told me he would go all over the World 
with me ,* he fwam fo ftrong after the Boat that he 
would have reached me very quickly, there being 
but little Wind ; upon which I ftept into the Cabin, 
and fetching one of the Fowling-pieces, I prefen- 
ted it at him, and told him, I had done him no 
hurt, and if he would be quiet I would do him 
none : But, faid I, you fvvim well enough to reach 
the Shore, and the Sea is calm, make the beft of 
your Way to Shore and I will do you no harm, but 
if you come near the Boat I'll (hoot you thro* the 
Head ; for I am refolv'd to have my Liberty ; fo 
he turn d himfelf about and fwam for the Shore, 
and I make no doubt but he reach'd it with Eafc, 
for he was an excellent Swimmer. 

I could have been content to ha' taken this Moer 
with me, and ha' drown'd the Boy, but there was no 
venturing to truft him : When he wasgonel turn'd 
to the Boy, who they call'd Xury, and faid to him, 
Xur}\ if you v/ill be faithful to me Til make you a 
great Man, but if you will not ftroak your Face 
to be tVue to me, that is, fware by Mahomet and 
his Father's Beard, I muft throw you into the Sea 
too ; the Boy fmil'd in my Face and fpoke fo in- 
nocently that I could not miftrufl: him ; and fworc 
to be faithful to me, and go all over the World 
with me. 

• While I was i\i View of the Moor that was fwim- 
ming, I flood out directly to Se i with the Boat, ra- 
ther ftretching to Windward, that they might think 
me gone towards the Straits-mouth fas indeed any 
one that had been in their Wits muft ha' been fuppos'd 
to do), for who would ha' fuppos'd we were faifd 



[16] 

on to the Southward to the truly Bdrbarian Coafl, 
where whole Nations of Negroes \vere fure to 
furround us with their Canoes, and deflroy us ; 
where we could ne'er once gone on Shore but we 
fhould be devoured by favage Beafts or more mer- 
cilefs Savages of human Kind. 

But as loon as it grew dusk in the Evening I 
chang'd my Courfe, and ftecr'd diredly South and 
by Eall, bending my Courfe a little toward the 
Eafl:, that I might keep in with the Shore; and 
having a fair frefh Gale of Wind and fmooth quiet 
Sea, 1 made fuch Sail that I believe by the next 
X)ay at Three a Clock in the Afternoon, when I 
firft made the Land, I could not be lefs than 150 
Miles South of Sallee^ quite beyond the Emperor 
of MjYOcco^s Dominions, or indeed of any other 
King thereabouts, for we faw no People, 

Yet fuch was the Fright I had taken at theAfoorx, 
and the dreadful Apprehcnfions I had of falling in- 
to their Hands, that I would not flop, or go on 
Shore, or come to an Anchor,- the Wind continu- 
ing fair, 'till I had faii'd in that manner iive Days: 
And then the Wind fhifting to the Southward ; I 
concluded alfo that i^ any of our Veflels were in 
Chafe of me, they alfo would now give over; To 
i ventur'*! to make to the Coaft, and came to an 
Anchor in the Mouth of a litrlc River, I knew not 
what, or where ; neither what Latitude,- what 
Country, what Nation, or what River : I neither 
ia\v,or defirM to fee any Pcople.the principal thing 
J wanted was freili V'/acer: We came into this 
Creek in the Evening, refolving to fw.m on Shore 
3i\ foon as it was dark, and difcover the Country ; 
but as foon as it was quite dark we heard fuch 
dreadful Noifcs of the barking, roaring, and 
howling of wild Creatures of we knew not what 
Kinds, that the poor Boy v/ as ready to die with 

Fear, 



Fear and begg'd of me not to go on Shore till 
Day ; well Xury^ faid I, then I won^t, but it may 
be we may fee Men by Day, who will be as bad to 
us as thofc Lyons ^ then we give them the fioot Gun, 
fays Xury, laughing, make them run wey ; fuch Englijb 
Xury fpoke by converfing among us Slaves, howe- 
ver I was glad to fee the Boy fo cheerful, and! 
gave him a Dram (out of our Patron^'s Cafe of Bot^ 
ties) to cheat him up : After all, Xurfs Advice 
was good, and 1 took it, we dropp'd our little An- 
chor and lay ftill all Night ; I fay ftill, for we flept 
none ; for in two or three Hours we faw vaft great 
Creatures (we knew not what to call them) of 
many forts, come down to the Sea-fhore and run in- 
to the Water, wallowing and wafhing themfelves 
for the Pleafure of cooling themfelves : and they 
made fuch hideous Howlings and Sellings, that I 
never indeed heard the like. 

Xuryw2iS dreadfully frighted, and indeed fo was 
I too ; but we were both more frighted when we 
heard one of thefe mighty Creatures come fwim- 
ming towards our Boat, we could not fee him but 
we might hear him by his blowing to be a mon- 
ftrous, huge and furious Beafl ', Xury {2ii6.it w2ls2L 
Lyon, and it might be fo for ought I know ,• but 
poor Xury cried to me to weigh^ the Anchor and 
row away ; no, faid I, Xury, we can flip our Cable 
with thei3noy to it and go off to Sea, they cannot 
follow us far; I had no fooner faid fo, but I per- 
ceived the Creature (whatever it was) within two 
Oars length, which fomething furprized me; how- 
ever I immediately llept to the Cabin-door, and 
taking up my Gun fir'd at him, upon which he im- 
mediately turn'd about and fwam towards the 
Shore again. 

But it is impoffible to defcribe the horrible Noi- 
fes,.and hideous Cries and Howlings, that were 

raifed 



[28] 



lalfed as wdl upon the Edge of the Shore, as high- 
er within the Country ,• upon the Noife or Re- 
port of the Gun, a Thing I have fome Reafon to 
believe thofe Creatures had never heard before : 
This convinc'd me that there was no going on 
Shore for us in the Night upon that Coafl, and 
how to venture on Shore in the Day was another 
Queftiontoo; for to have fallen into the Hands 
of any of the Savages, had been as bad as to 
have fallen into the Hands of Lyons and Ty- 
gers ; at leaft we were equally apprehenfive of the 
Danger of it. 

Be that as it would, we were oblig'd to go on 
Shore fomewhere or other for Water, for we had 
not a Pint left in the Boat ; when or where to get to 
it was the Point : Xury fafd, if I would let hnn go 
on Shore with one of the Jars, he would find if there 
was any Water and bring fome to me. I ask^ 
him why he would go? Why I fhould not go, and 
he ftay in the Boat ? The Boy anfwer'^d with fo 
much Aftedion, that made me love him ever 
atter. Says he. If 'c^ild Mans come, they eat me, you 
go ivey. Well, Xury, faid I, we will both go, and 
if the wild Mans come, we vtrill \^ill them, they 
fliall eat neither of us^ fo I gave Xury a piece of 
Rusk-bread to eat, and a D'ram out of our Pa- 
tron's Cafe of- Bottles which I mentioned before,* 
and we hal'd the Boat in as near the Shore as we 
thought was proper, and wiided on Shore; car- 
rying nothing but our Arms, and two Jarrs for 
\Vater. . - » ^ ^ 

I did not care to go out of Sight of the. Boat, 
fearing the coming of Canoes with Savaged 
down the River ; But the Boy feeing a low Place 
about a Mile up the Country rambled to it; and 
by, and by I faw him come running towards me, 
1 thought he was piufued by fome Savage, or 

frighted 



[ ^9 1 

frighted with fome V^ild Beaft, aiid I run forward 
towards him, to helphim^ but when I came nearer 
to him, i faw fomething hanging over his Shoul- 
ders, which was a Creature that he had fhot, like 
a Hare, but different in Colour, and longer Legs ; 
however, we were very glad of it, and it was very 
good Meat ^ but the great Joy. that poor Xury 
came with, was to tell me he had found good 
Water, and feen no wild Mans. 

But we found afterwards that we need not take 
fuch Pains for Water, for a little higher up the 
Creek where we were, we found the Water frefh 
when the Tide was out, which flows but a little 
way up ,• fo we filled our Jarrs and feafted on the 
Hare we had killed, and prepared to go on our 
Way, having feen no Foot-fleps of any human 
Creature in that part of the Country. 

As I had been one Voyage to this Coafl before, 
I knew very well that the Iflands of the Canaries, 
and the Cape de Verd Iflands alfo, lay not far off 
from the Coafl* But as I had no Inflruments to 
take an Obfervation to know what Latitude we 
were in, and not exadly know, or at leafl to re- 
member, what Latitude they were in, I knew not 
where to look for them, or when to fland off to 
Sea towards them, otherwife 1 might now eafily 
have found fome of thefe Iflands. But my Hope 
was, that if I flood along this Coafl till I came to 
that part where the Englijh traded, I fhould find 
fome of their Veflels upon their ufual Defign of 
Trade, that would relieve and take us in. 

By the befl of my Calculation, that Place where 
I now was, mufl: be that Country, which lying be- 
tween the Emperor of Morocco's Dominions and the 
Negroes^ lies wafle and uninhabited, except by Wild 
Beafls ; the Negroes having abandoned it, and gone 
farther Souths for fear of the Moors ^ and ih^Moori 

no 



[30] 

not thinking it worth inhabiting, by reafon oF its 
Barrennefs • and indeed both forfaking it becaufe 
of the prodigious Numbers of Tygers, Lyons, 
Leopards, and other furious Creatures which har- 
bour there ; fo that the Moors ufe it for their Hun- 
ting only, v/here they go like an Army, two or 
three thoufand Men at a time ; and indeed for near 
an hundred miles together upon this Coaft, we faw 
nothing but a wafte uninhabited Country by Day, 
and heard nothing but Howlings and Roaring of 
Wild Beads by Night. 

Once or twice in the Day-time, I thought I faw 
the Pico of Temrifey being the high Top of the 
Mountain T'emriffe in the Canaries; and had a great 
mind to venture out in hopes of reaching thither ; 
but having tried twice, I was forced in again by 
contrary Winds, the Sea alio going too high for 
my little Veffel ; fo I refolv'd to purfue my firft 
Defign, and keep along the Shore. 

Several times I was obliged to land for frefh Wa- 
ter, after we had left this Place ; and once in par- 
ticular, being early in the Morning, we came to 
an Anchor under a little Point of Land which was 
pretty high, and the Tide beginning to flow, we 
lay flill to go farther in ; Xury, whofe Eyes were 
more about him than it feems mine were, calls foft- 
ly to me, and tells me that we had bed go farther 
off the Shore ; for, fays he, look yonder lies a 
dreadful Monfter on the Side of that Hillock, fall 
afleep : I look'd where he pointed, and faw a 
dreadful Monfler indeed ; for it was a terrible great 
Lion that lay on the i\dit of the Shore, under the 
Shade of a piece of the Hill that hung as it were a 
little over him. Xury, fays I, you fliall go on Shore 
and kill him; Xury look'd frighted, and faid. 
Me kill! he eat me at one Mouth ; one Mouthful he 
^leant ; however, I faid no more to the Boy, but 

bad 



. {^31 ] 

h.\d him lye llilJ, and I took our biggell Giinj 
which was ahnofl Musket-bore, and loaded it 
with a good Charge of Powder, and with two 
Slugs, and laid it down^ then I loaded another 
Gun with two Bullets, and the third, for we had 
three Pieces, I loaded with RvQ fmaller Bullets. I 
took the befl Aim I could with the firll Piece to 
have (hot him into the Head, but he lay fo wth 
hisLeg rais'd a little above hisNofe, that the Slugs 
hit his Leg about the Knee, and broke the Bone. 
He flatted up growling at firft, but finding his Leg 
broke fell down again, and then got up upon three 
Legs, and gave the mod hideous Roar that ever I 
heard j I was a little furpriz^d that I had not hit 
him on the Head ,• however I took up the fecond 
Piece immediately, and tho' he began to move off 
fir'd again, and fhot him into the Head, and had 
the Pleafure to fee him drop, and make but little 
Noife, but lay flriiggh'iig for Life. Then Xury 
took Heart, and would have me let him go on 
Shore . Well, go, faid I ,* fo the Boy jump'd into 
the Water, and taking a iitde Gun in one Hand, 
fwam to Shore with the other Hand, and coming 
clofe to the Creature, put the Muzzle of the Piece 
to his Ear, and fhot him into the Head again, 
which difpatch'd him quite. 

This was Game indeed to us, but this was no 
Food, and I was very forry to lofe three Charges 
of Powder and Shot upon a Creature that was good 
for nothing to us. However, Aury faid, he would 
have fome of him ; fo he comes on board, ask'd 
me togive him the Hatchet,* for what, Xury, faii 
I ? Me cut off his Head, faid he. However, Xury 
could not cut off his Head, but he cut off a Foot 
and brought it with him, and it was a moniirous 
great one. 

I be- 



[30 

I bethought my felf however, that perhaps the 
Skin of him might one way or other be of fome 
Value to us ; and I refolved to take off his Skin if 
I could. So Xury and I went to work with him; 
but Xury was much the better Workman at it, for 1 
knew very ill how to do it. Indeed it took us up 
both the whole Day, but at laft we got off the 
Hide of him, and fpreading it on the top of our 
Cabin, the Sun effectually dried it in two Days 
time, and it afterwards ferv'd me to lye upon. 

After this Stop we made on to the Southward 
continually for ten or twelve Days, living very fpa- 
ring on our Proviiions, which began to abate very 
much, and going no oftner into the Shore than 
we were oblig'd to for frefh Water ; my Defign in 
this was to make the River Gambia or Senegall, that 
is to fay, any where about the Cape de Verdy where 
I was in hopes to meet with fome European Ship, 
and if I did not, I knew not what Courfe I had to 
take, but to feek for the Iflands, or perifli there 
among the Negroes. I knew that all the Ships from 
Europe, which fail'd either to the Coaft of Gumejy 
or to Brajil, or to the Ea/i Indies, m.ade this Caps, 
or thofe Jflands; and in a word, I put the whole 
of my Fortune upon this fingle Point, either that 
I muft meet with fome Ship or muft perifh. 

When I had purfued this Refolution about ten 
Days longer, as I have faid, I began to fee that 
the Land was inhabited, and in two or three Pla- 
ces as we failed by we faw People fland upon the 
Shore to look at us, we could alfo perceive they 
were quite black, and ftark naked. I was once 
inclin'd to have gone on (liore to them; but Xury 
was my better Counfellor, and faid to me, no go, 
no go; however I hawl'd in nearer the Shore that I 
might talk to them, and I found they run along 
the Shore by me a good way i I obferv'd they had 

no 



[35] 



no Weapons in their Hands, except one, who had a 

long flender Stick, which X.iry laid was a Lance, 

and that they would throw them a great way with 

good Aim ; fo I kept at a dillance, but talk'd with 

them by Signs as well as I could, and particularly 

made Signs for fomeching to eat, they beckon'd to 

me to flop my Boat, and they would fetch me 

fome Meat,- upon this I lower'd the Top of my 

Sail, and lay by, and two of them run up into the 

Country, and in ief. than half an Hour came back, 

and brought with them two Piec:;s of dry Fiefh, 

and fome Corn, fuch as is the Produce of their 

Country,but we neither knew what the one or the 

other was, however we were willing to accept it, 

but how to come at it was our next Difpute, for 

I was not for venturing on Shore to them, and 

they v/ere as much afraid of us, but they took a 

fafe Way for us all, for they brought it to the 

Shore and laid it down, and went and flood a 

great way off till we fet-ch'd it on Board, and 

then came clofe to us again. 

We made Signs of Thanks to them, for we had 
nothing to make them amends j but an Opportu- 
nity offer'd that very Inftant to oblige them won- 
derfully, for while we were lying by the Shore 
came 2 mighty Creatures,one purfuing the other (as 
we took it^ with great Fury from the Mountains 
towards the Sea, whether it was the Male purfuing 
the Female,or whether they were in Sport or Rage 
we could not tell,any more than we could tell whe- 
ther it was ufual or i[range,but I believe it was the 
latter, becaufe in the firft place thofe ravenous 
Creatures feldom appear but in the Night, and in 
the fecond place we found the People terribly 
frighted, efpecially the VV"omen. The Man chac 
had the Lance or Dart did not fly from them, 
but the reft did \ however as the tWo Creatures 

D ran 



[?4] 



ran directly into the Water, tiiey did not (hem to 
offer to tall upon any of the Negroes, but phmg'd 
themfelves into the Sea, and fwam about as if 
they had come for their Diverfion ; at laft one of 
them began to come nearer our Boat than at firfl: I 
expeded, but 1 lay ready for him, for I had load- 
ed my Gun with all poffible Expedition, and bad 
Xury load both the other; as foon as he came fair- 
ly within my reach I hr^d, and (hot him directly 
into the Head; immediately he funk dovm into 
the Water, but rofe inftantly, and plunged up and 
down as i^^ he was flrugling for Life, and fo in- 
deed he was; he immediately made to the Shore, 
but betvVeen the Wound, which was his mortal 
Hurt, and the flrangling of the Water, he died juft 
before he reach'd the Shore. 

It is impofTible to exprefs the Aftonifliment of 
thefe poor Creati res at the Noife and the Fire of 
my Gun, fome ot them were even ready to die for 
Fear, and fell down as dead with the very Ter- 
ror. But when they faw the Creature dead, and 
funk in the Water, and that I made Signs to them 
to come to the Shore, they took heart and came 
to the Shore, and began to fearch foF the Creature. 
1 found him by his Blood flainmg the Water, and 
by the help of a Rope, which I flung round him^ 
and gave the Negress to hawl ; they dragg'd him 
on. Snore, and tound that it was a raofi curious 
Leopard, fpotted and fine to an admirable Degree, 
and the Negroes held up their Hands with Admira- 
tion to think what it war-; I had kili'd him with. 

The other Creature, frighted with the Flafh o£ 
Fire and the Noifj of the Gun, fwam on Shore, 
and ran up diredly to the Mountains, from whence 
they come, nor could I at that Diflance know 
what it was. I found quickly the Negroes were 
for eating the Flefh of tljis Creature, (o 1 was wil- 
ling 



[35] 

iing to have them take it as a Favour from me) 
which when I made Signs to them that they might 
take him, they were very thankful for, immediate- 
ly they fell to work with him, and tho' they had no 
Knife, yet with a fliarpen'd piece of Wood they took 
oft his Skin as readily, and much more readily than 
we cou'dhave done with a Knife -, they offer'd me 
fome of the Flefh, which I declmed, making as if 
I would give it them, but made Signs for the Skin^ 
which they gave me very freely, and brought me a 
great deal more of their Provjfion, which tho^ 1 did 
hot underftand, yet I accepted ; then I made Signs 
to them for fomc Water, and held out one of my 
Jarrs to them, turning it bottom upward, to Ihew 
that it was empty, and that I wanted to have it 
filled, they call'd immediately to fome of their 
Friends, and there came two Women and brought 
a great Veflel made of Earth, and burnt as I fup- 
pofe in the Sun ', this they fet down for me, as be- 
fore, and I fent Xury on Shore with my Jarrs, and 
filled them all three. The Wortien were as flark 
tiakedastheMen. 

I was now fiirniflied with Roots and Corn, fuch 
as it was, and Water, and leaving my friendly A/t- 
grv^Sy I made forward for about eleven Days more, 
without offering to go near the Shore, till Ifaw 
the Land run out a great Length into the Sea, at 
about the Diftance of four or five Leagues before 
me, and the Sea being very calm, I kept a large 
offing to make this Point ; at length, doubling the 
Point at about two Leagues from the Land, I 
faw plainly Land oh the other Side to Seaward; 
then I concluded, as it was moft certain indeedj 
that this was the Cape de Ve-d^ and thofe the /- 
flandsy caird from thence Cape de Verd Iflandsi 
However they were at a great Diifance, and I 
could not well tell what I had beft to do, for if I 

D li fliould 



[ 3'^ T . 

(hould be talicn with a Frefli of Wind Tmiglit nei-*- 
ther reach one or other. 

In this Dilemna, as I was very pen five, I flept. 
into the Cabin, and fat me down, Xuvy having, 
the Helm, when on a fudden the Boy cry'd out 
Majlei^ Majier^ a Ship vj'ith a- Sail, and the fooliih 
Boy was frighted out of his Wits, thinking it muil 
needs be fome of his Mall:er's Ships fent to pur- 
fue us, when, I knew we were gotten far enough 
out of their reach. I jiimp'd out of the Cabin,, 
and immediately faw not only the Ship, but what 
file was, (viz>.) that it was a Pcrtuguefe Ship, and 
as I thought was boimd to the Coait oi Guinea for 
Negroes, But when I obferv'd the Courfe fhe 
fteer^'d, I was foon convinced they were bound 
fome other way, and did not defign to come any 
nearer to the Shore ; upon which I ftretch'd out to 
Sea as much as I could;, rcfolving to ipaik with, 
them if poUible.. 

With all the Sail I could^mjake I found I fliould 
not be able to come in their Way, but that they 
would be gone by, before I could make any Signal. 
to them i but afcer I had crowded to the utmoft, 
and began to defrair,. they it fcems fdw me by the 
help of their Pc/fpective- Glades, and that it was 
fome European BosLV, v,^hichias they fi.ppofed mufl 
belong to fome Ship that was loft, fo they fhortned 
Sail to let me ccme up. I was encouraged' with 
this, and as I had m}- Patron's Antieiitcn Board,I 
made a Waft of it to them, for a S gnal of Di- 
lirefs, andfit'd a Gun, both which they faw, for 
they told me they faw the Smo!(e, tho* they did 
not hear the Gun ; upon, thef:: Signals they very 
kindly brought too, and' lay by t^r me, and in a- 
bout three Hours time I came up wii'h them. 

They ask\l me what I was, in Pdrtngmfe, and in 
Spu'aijo^ and in F. etKb, but- i underflood none ot 

tliem i. 



[37 3 

^liein ; but at Ufl a Scots Sailor who was on board* 
<::airdtome, andlaiifwet'd him, and told him I 
was an Englijh Man, that I had made my efcape out 
oF Slavery from the Moors ^lz SaHee; than they bad 
me come on board, and very kindly took me in, 
and all my Goods. 

It was aninexpreffi-ble Joy to nie, that any one 
will believe, that I was thus delivered, as I elleem^d 
it, from fuch amifcrable and almoft hopelefs Con- 
iiirion as I was in, and I immediately offered all J 
had to the Captain of tlie Ship, as a Return for 
my Deliverance; but he gePierouflytold me, he 
would take nothing from me, but that all I had 
fhould.be delivered. fafe to me when I came to the 
Brafils \ for, fays he, J have fav d your Lijeon no o- 
ther "Terms than I vcouJdbe glad to befavedmyfelj^ and 
it may one time or otk^r.be 7ny Lot to be taken up in the 
fame Condition -^ b'^fides^ /a.d hcyZuhen I carry you to 
•the Bra.ii\s,Jogreata vjayjro?n your own Country^ If I 
Jhould take jrom you lohat you have, you w^I/be fta^ved 
there, and then I only take aivay that Life I have givin, 
.No, no, Seignor, Inglefe fays he, Mr. Englifliman, 
I will carry you thither in Charity^ and thofe things will 
he ^p you to buy your Stdf fence there, and your Paffage 
J}ome again. 

As he was Charitable in this Propofal, To he was 
juH in the Performance to a title, for he ordered 
the St^amen, that none fliould offer to touch any 
thing I had; then he took every thing into his own 
^Poilelficn, and gave me back an axad Inventory of 
them, that I might have them, even fo much as; 
my three Earthen Jarrs. 

As to my Boat it was a very good one, and 
that he faw, and told me he would buy it of me 
for the S.np's Ufe, and ask'd me what I would have 
for it? I told him he had been fo generous »to me 
in ivery thing, that I could not oSer to make a- 

D 3 ny 



[38] 



ny Price of the Boat, but lek it entirely to him, 
upon which he told me he would give me a Note 
ot his Hand to pay me 80 Pieces of Eight for it 
at Brafily and when it came there, if any one of- 
fered to give more he would make it up ; he ofter'd 
nie aUo 60 Pieces of Eight more for my Boy Xury^ 
which I was loath to take, not that I was not wil- 
ling to let the Captain have him, but I was very 
loath to fell the poor Boy's Liberty, who had afli- 
fted me fo faithfully in procuring my own. How- 
ever when I let him know my Reafon, he own'd it 
to be juft, and offer'd me this Medium, that he 
would give the Boy an Obligation to fet him free 
in ten Years, if heturnM Chriftian ,• upon this, and 
Xurj fa} ing he was willing to go to him, I let the 
Captain have him. 

We had a very good Voyage to the Brafils^ and 
arriv'd in tl^e Baj de Tados/os Santos, or AU-Saints- 
Bay-, in about Twenty-two Days after. And now 
I was once more deliver^ from the mod: miferable 
of all Conditions of Life, and what to do next 
with myfelf I was now to confider. 

The generous Treatment the Captain give me, 
1 can never enough remember; he would take no- 
thing of me for my PalTage, gave me twenty Ducats 
for tx^e Leopard's Skin, and forty for the Lyon's 
Skin which I had in my Boar, and caufed' every 
Thing 1 hcd in the Ship to be punctually deliver'd 
me, and what I was willing to lell he bought; fuch 
as the Cafe of Bottles, two of my Guns, and a 
pice-; of t/ic Lump of Bees-wax, for I had made 
Canaics or the reft; in a word, I made about 220 
Pieces of Eight of all my Cargo, and with this 
Stock 1 wt.nt on Shore in the Brafilo. 

I had not been long here, but being recommen- 
ced to the Ho.-.re of a gccd hpnelt Men like him- 
felf, who had an Ligeino as they call it; that is, a 

Plan- 



C 39 ] 

plantation and a Sugar-Houfe, I lived with him 
fome time, and apquainted my felf by that Means 
with the Manner of their planting and making of 
Sugar ; and feeing how well the Planters liv*d, and 
how they grew rich fuddenly^ I refolv'd, if I could 
get Licence to fettle there, I would turn Planter a- 
mong them, refolving in the mean time to find out 
iome Way to get my Money which I had left in Lon- 
don remitted to me. To thisPurpofe getting a kind 
of a Letter of Naturalization,! purchafed as much 
Land that was Uncur'd, as my Money would reach, 
and form'd a Plan for my Plantation and Settlement, 
and fuch a one as might be fuitabie to the Stock 
whichlpropofedto my felf to receive from England^ 

I had a Neighbour, a Portiiguex>e of Lisbon, but 
born of Ertglijh Parents, whofe Name was IVells^ 
and in much fuch Circumflances as I was. I call 
him Neighbour, becaufe his Plantation lay next to 
mine, and wc went on veryfociable together. My 
Stock was but low as well as his ; and we rather 
planted for Food, than any thing elfe, for about two 
Years. However, we began to increafe, and our 
Land began to come into Order; fo that the third 
Year we planted fome Tobacco, and made each of 
us a large Piece of Ground ready for planting Canes 
in the Year to come ; but we both wanted Help t 
and now I found more than before, I had done 
wrong in parting with my Boy Xury, 

But alas i for me to do wrong that never did rightii' 
was no great Wonder : I had no Remedy but to go 
on ; I was gotten into an Employment quite remote 
to my Genius, and dired:ly contrary to the Life I 
delighted in, and for which i for(bok my Father's 
Houfe, and broke thro' all his good Advice ; nay, 
I was coming into the very middle Station, or up- 
per Degree ot low Life, which my Father advifed 
ine to b^fors ,* and which i*^ I rcfolved to go on 
D 4 with 



with, I might as \vell ha' [iaid at home, and never 
have fatigu'd my fclf in the World as I had done ; 
and I ufed often to fay to my felf, I could ha' done 
this as wcl\inEf?gLwd among my Friends, as ha' 
gone 5000 Miles ott to do it among Strangers and 
Savages in a VVildernefs, and at fuch a Diltance, 
as never to hear from any Part of the World that 
had the leaft Knowledge of me. 

In this manner I ufed to look upon my Condition 
with the utmod Regret. I had no Body to converfe 
with, but nov/and then this Neighbour; no Work 
to be done, but by the Labour ot my Hands; and 
I ufed to fay, I liv'd jufl like a Man caft away up- 
on fome defolate liland, that had no Body tliere but 
himfelf. But how ycdl has it been, and how fliould 
all Men reflet^, that, when they compare their pre- 
fent Conditions with others that are worfe, Heaven 
may oblige them to make tlie Exchange, and be 
convinc'd of their former Felicity, by their Experi- 
ence : I fay, how juf]: has it been, that the truly foli- 
tary Life I reflected on in an Ifland of meet Defo- 
lationfhould be my Lot, who had fo often unjuflly 
compar'd it with the Life which I then led, in 
which had I continued, I had in all Probability 
been exceeding profperous and rich. 

I was in fome Degree fettled in my Meafures for 
carrying on the Plantation, before my kind Friend 
the Captain of the Ship, that took me up at Sea, 
w^ent back ; for the Ship remained there in provi- 
ding his Loading, and preparing for his Voyage 
near three Months, v/hen telling him what little 
Stock I had left behind me in London, he gave me 
this friendly and fincere AdvicQ, Seignor Ingiefe, fays 
he, for fo he ahvays cail'd me, ii' you will give me 
Letters, and a Procuration here in Form to me, 
with Orders to the Perfon who has your Money in 
l^ondon^ to fend your EfFeds to Lisbony to fuch Per- 

fons 



[41 1 



fons as I (hall dlreft, and in fuch Goods as are pro- 
per for this Country, I will bring you the Produce 
of them, God willing, at my Return ; but fmcc 
human Aftairs are all fubjed to Changes and Di- 
fafters, I would have you give Orders but for loo/. 
Ster/. which you fay is half your Stock, and let 
the Hazard be run for the iirfl:; (o that if it come 
(afe, you may order the reft the fame Way ; and 
if it mifcarry, you may have the other Half to 
have Recourfe to for your Supply. 

This was fo wholefome Advice, and look'd fo 
fri;^ndly, that I could not but be convinced it was 
tlie bed Courfe I could take , fo I accordingly pre- 
pared Letters to the Gentlewoman with whom I 
had left my Money, and a Procuration to the Por- 
tiiguefe Captain, as he dellred. 

1 wrote the EngHjh Captain's Widow a full Ac- 
count of all my Adventures, my Slavery, Efcape, 
and hov/ I had met with the Portugal Captain at 
Sea, the Humanicy ol: his Behaviour, and in what 
Condition I was now in, with all other neceflary 
Directions for my Supply , and when this honefl: 
Captain came to Liihon, he found means by fome of 
the Euglijh Merchants there, to fend over not the 
Order only, but a full Account of my Story to a 
Merchant at LondiUy who reprefented it effe(9:ual- 
ly to her; whereupon, flie not only delivered the 
Money, but out of her own Pocket fent the Por- 
tugal Captain a very handfom Prefent for his Hu- 
manity and Charity to me. 

The Merchant in London veiling this looL in 
Englifo Cioods, fuch as the Captain had writ for, 
fcnt them directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought 
them all (ate to me to the Erafils^ among which, 
wit li out my Direction (for I was too young in my 
Bufinefs to thir.k of them) he had taken Care to 
have all Sorts of Tools, Iron-work, and Uten- 

fiis 



C4Z] ^ 

(lis neceffary for my Piantation, and which were 
of great Ufe to me. 

When this Cargo arrfved^I thought my Fortune 
made, for I was fqrpriz'd with Joy of it ,• and my 
good Steward the Captain had laid out the 5 /. 
which my Friend had lent him for a Prefent foe 
himfelf, to purchafe, and bring me over a Servant 
under Bond for fix Years Service, and would not 
accept of any Confideration, except a little To- 
bacco, which I would have him accept, being of 
jny own Produce. 

Neither was this all ; but my Goods being all 
Englijh Manufa<5lures, fuch as Cloath, Stuffs, Bays, 
and Things particularly valuable and defireableiu 
the Country, I found means to fell them to a very 
great Advantage ; fo that I may fay, I had more 
than four times the Value of my iirit Cargo, and 
was now infinitely beyond my poor Neighbour, \ 
mean in the Advancement of my Plantation ; for 
the flrft thing I did, I bought me a Negroe Slave, and 
an RuYcpean S;^rvant alfo i I mean another beiides 
that which the Captain brought me from Lisbon. 

But as abus'd Prolpenty \^ oftentimes made the 
very Means of our greateft Adverfity, fo was it 
with me. I went on the next Year with great Suc- 
c^{^ in my Plantation : I raifed 50 great Rolls of 
Tobacco on my own Ground, more than I h2,d, 
difpofed of for Neceilarics among my Neighbours; 
and thefe 50 Rolls being each of above a 100 Wt, 
were well curM and laid by againfl the Return of 
the Fleet from Lisbon : And now increafing in Bufi- 
nefs and in Wealth, my Head be(;an to be full of 
Projects and Undertakings beyond my Reach; 
fuch as are indeed often the Ruin of the beft 
Heads in Bufinefs. 

Had 



Had I continued in the Station I was now in, I 
had room for all the happy things to have yet be- 
fallen me, for which my Father fo earneftly recom- 
mended a quiet retired Life, and of which he had 
fofenfibly defcribed the middle Station of Life to 
be full ofj but other things attended me, and I 
was ftill to he the wilful Agent of all my own 
Miferies ; and particularly to encreafe my Fault 
and double the Reflexions upon my felf, which in 
my future Sorrows I fhould have Leifureto make; 
all thefe Mifcarriages were procured by my appa- 
rent obftinate adhering to my foolifh Inclination of 
wand ring abroad, and purfuing that Inclination, in 
contradidion to the cleareft Views of doing my 
felf good in a fair and plain purfuit of thofe Prof- 
pedsand thofe Meafures of Life, which Nature 
and Providence concurred to prefent me with, and 
to make my Duty. 

As I had once done thus in breaking away 
from my Parents, fo I could not be content now, 
but I muft go and leave the happy View I had of 
being a rich and thriving Man in my new Plantati- 
on, only to purfue a rafh and immoderate Defire of 
rifing fader then the Nature of the Thing admit- 
ted j and thus I caft myfelf down again into the 
deepeft Gulph of human Mifery that ever Man fell 
into, or perhaps could be confiftent with Life and 
a State of Health in the World. 

To come then by jufl Degrees, to the Parti- 
culars of this Part of my Story ; you may fuppofe, 
that having now lived almoft four Years in the 
Brajtloy and begining to thrive and profper very 
wel) upon my Plantation; 1 had not only learn a 
the Language, but had contraded Acquaintance 
and Friendfliip among my Fellow-Planters, as well 
as among the Merchants at St. Sahadore, which 
was our Port ; and that in my Difcourfe, among 

t;h€mi 



[44] 

them, I had frequently given them an Account of 
my two Voyages to the Coaft of Guinea^ the 
manner of Trading with the ^^egroes there, and 
how eafy it was to purchafe upon the Coaft, for 
■Trifles, fuch as Beads, Toys, Knives, ScilTars, 
Hatchets, bits of Glafs, and the hkej not only 
Gold Duft, Guinea Grains, Elephants Teeth, &c, 
but Negroes for the Service of the Brafils, in great 
Numbers. 

They liflened always very attentively to my 
Difcourfes on thefe Heads, but efpecially to that 
Part which related to the buying Negroes, which 
was a Trade at that time iiot only not far entred 
into, but as far as it was, had been carried on by 
the AfTiento's, or Permiflion of the Kings of Spain 
^nd Portugal, and engrofs'd in the Publick, fo that 
few Negroes were brought^ and thofe excelTue 
dear. 

It happen'd, being in Company with fome Mer- 
chants and Planters of my Acquaintance, and 
talking of thofe things very earneffly, three of 
them came to me the next Morning, and to'd me 
they had been mufing very much upon what I had 
difcourfed with them of, the lafl Night, and they 
came to make a fecret Propofal to me ; and after 
enjoining me Secrecy, they told me that they had 
a mind to fit out a Ship to go to Guinea, tiiat 
they had all Plantations as well as I, and were 
ilraiten'd for nothing fo much as Servants ; that as 
it was a Trade that could not be carried on, be- 
caufe they could not publickly fell the Negioes 
when they came home, fo they dcfired to 
make but one Voyage, to bring tiie Negroes on 
Shore privately, and divide them among their 
own Plantations,* and in a Word, the Qiieilion 
was, whether I would go their Super-Cargo in the 
Ship to manage the Trading Part upon the Coaff 

of 



[ 45 1 

of Guinea ? And they ofter'd me that I fhould haver 
my equal Share of the Negroes, without providing 
any Part of the Stock. 

This was a fair Propofal, it muft be confefs'd, 
tiad it been made to any one that had not had a 
Settlement and Plantation of his own to look after, 
which was in a fair way of coming to be very 
Gonliderable, and with a good Stock upon it. But 
for me that was thus entered and eflablifhed, and 
had nothing to do but go on as I had begun for 
three or four Years more, and to have fent for the. 
other I CO /. from England^ and who in that time» 
and with that little Addition, could fcarce have 
failed oi being worth 3 or 4000 /. Sterling, and 
that encreafing tooi for me to think of fucha 
Voyage, was the moft prepoilerous 7'hing that e- 
ver Man in fuch Circum fiances could be guilty of. 

But I that was born to be my own Deilroyer, 
could no more refift the Ofi'er than I could reftraia 
,my firft rambling Defigns, when my Father's good 
Counfel was loft upon me. In a word, I told 
them I would go with all my Heart, if they 
would undertake to look after my Plantation in 
my Abfence, and would difpofe of it to fuch as I 
fiiould dired if I mifcarry'd. This they all en- 
gag'd to do, and entred into Writings or Covenants 
to do fo ; and I made a formal Will, difpofing of 
my Plantation and Ej&eds, in Cafe of my Death, 
making the Captain of the Ship that had favM 
my Life, as before, my univerfai Heir, but obli- 
ging him* to difpofe of my Effeds as I had direded 
in my Will, one half of the Produce being tohim- 
felf, and the other to be fliippM to England. 

In (hort, I took all pcfTible Caution to preferve 
my Etfeds, and to keep up my P.'antation ,• had lu- 
fed half as much Prudence to havelook'd into my 

own 



4(5] 

own Intrcfl-, and have made a judgment of what 
I ought to have done, and not to have done^ I had 
certainly never gone away from To profperous an 
Undertaking, leaving all the probable View.<; of a 
thriving Circumftance, and gone upon a Voyage to 
Sea, attended with all itscom.mon Hazards ; to fay 
nothing of the Reafons I had to expert particiiiar 
Misfortunes to my felf. 

But I was hurry 'd on, and obeyM blindly the 
Didates of my Fancy rather than my Reafon : and 
accordingly the Ship being fitted out, and the Car- 
go furnifhed, and all Things done as by Agreement, 
by my Partners in the Voyage, I went on Board 
in an evil Hour again, the ift of Sept. i6^p. being 
th^ fame Day eight Year that I went from my 
Father and Mother at Hull, in order to ad: the 
Rebel to their Authority, and the Fool to my own 
Intereft. 

Our Ship was about i 20 Tun Burthen, carried 
6 Guns, and 14 Men, befides the Malter, his Boy, 
and my felf i we had on Board no large Cargo of 
Goods, except of fuch Toys as were fit for our 
Trade with the Negroes, fuch as Beads, bits of 
Glafs, Shells, and odd. Trifles, efpecially little 
Looking-GlalTes, Knives, ScifTars, Hatchets, and 
the like. 

The fame Day I went on Board we fet fail, 
{landing away to the Northward upon our own 
Coaft, with Defign to ftretch over for the African 
Coaft, when they came about 10 or 12 Degrees of 
Northen Latitude, which it feems was the man- 
ner of their Courfe in thofe Days. We had very 
good Weather, only excefTive hot, all the way up- 
on our own Coaft, till we came to the Height of 
Cape St. Anguflim, from whence keeping farther off 
ar Sea we loft Sight of Land, and fteer'd as if we 
was bound for the Ifle Fernand de Nurcnbay holding 

our 



[47] 

bm* Coutfe N. E. by N. and leaving thofe Ifle^ 
bn the Eaft ; in this Courfe we pafi the Line in 
about 1 2 Days Time, and were by our Jafl Obfer* 
Vation in 7 Degrees 22 Min. Northern Latitude, 
when a violent 7<?//r;Wo or Hurricane took us quite 
out ot our Knowledge j it began from the South- 
Eaft, came about to the North-Wefl, and then 
fettled into the North-Eall, from whence it blew 
in fuch a terrible manner, that for 12 Days toge- 
ther ^ve could do nothing but drive, and fcudding 
away before it, let it carry us whither ever Fate 
and the Fury of the Winds direded,- and during 
thefe 12 Days, I need not fay, that I expeded 
every Day to be fwallowed up, nor indeed did any 
in the Ship exped to fave their Lives. 

In this Diftrefs we had, belides the Terror of 
the Storm, one of our Men died of the Calenture, 
and one Man and the Boy wafli'd over-board. A- 
bout the 1 2th Day the Weather abating a little, 
the Mafter made an Obfer vation as well as he 
could, and found that he was in about 1 1 Degrees 
North Latitude, but that he was 22 Degrees of 
Longitude difference Weft from Cape St. Augujiim, 
io that he found he was gotten upon the Coaft 
of Guiana, or the North Part of Brafil, beyond 
the River Amaz,oneSy toward that of the River 
Oroonoque, commonly called the Great Rrjer, and 
began to confult with me what Courfe he fhould 
take, for the Ship was leaky, and very much dif- 
abled, and he was going diredly back to the 
Coaft of BrafU, 

I was poficively againft that, and looking over 
the Chans of the Sea Coaft of America with him, 
we concluded there was no inhabited Country for 
us to have recourfe to, till we came within the 
Circle of the Carrihbee I/la}tds,3.nd therefore refolved 
to ftand away for Barbadoes^ which by keeping off 

at 



[48] 

at Sea, to avoid the Indratt of the Bay or Gulph 
of Mexico, we might eaiily perform, as we hoped, 
in about iifteen Days Sail, whereas we could not 
poffibly make our Voyage to the Coaft of Africa 
without fome Aifillance both to our Ship and to 
our felves. 

With this Defign we chang'd our Courfe, and 
fleer'd away N. VV. by VV. in order to reach fome 
o^ our Englijh Iflands, where I hoped for Relief: 
but our Voyage was otherwife determined, for 
being in the Latitude of 12 Deg. 18 Min. a fc- 
cond Storm came upon us, which carry 'd us away 
with the fame Impetuoiity VVeftward, and drove 
us fo out of the very Way of all human Com- 
merce, that had ai) our Lives been faved, as to 
the Sea, we were rather in Danger of bejig de- 
voured by Savages than ever returning to our 
own Country. 

In this Diflrefs, the Wind flill blowing very 
hard, one of our Men, early in the Morning, cry'd 
out, Laytd : and v/e had no fooner run out of the 
Cabin to look out, in hopes of feeing where- 
abouts in the World vre were, but the Ship flruck 
upon a Sand, and in a Moment her Motion being 
fo flopped, the Sea broke over her in fuch a man- 
ner, that vv^c expcded we (hould all have perifh^d 
immediately, and we v/ere immediately driven 
into our clofe Q;aartsrs, to flieker us from the very 
Foam and Sprye of the Sea. 

It is not eafy for any one, who has not been 
in the like Condition, to defcribe or conceive the 
Conilernation of Men in fuch Circumflances j we 
knew nothing where we were, or upon what Land 
it vvTtS we were driven, whether an Kland or the 
Main, whether inhabited or not inhabited ; and 
as the Rage of the Wind was fiili great, tho' ra- 
ther Icfs than at hrft, we could not fo much a? 

hope 



[ 49] 

hope to have the Ship hold many Minutes without 
breaking in pieces, unlefs the Wind by a k'tid of 
Miracle fliould turn immediately about; in a '.vord> 
we fat looking one upon another, and expe(5ting 
Death every Moment, and every Man a(5ting ac- 
cordingly, as preparing for another World, fof 
there was little or nothing more tor us to do in 
this; that wliich was our prcfent Comfort, and all 
the Comfort we had, was, that contrary to our 
Expectation the Ship did not break yet, and that 
the Mafter faid the Wind b<:gan to abate. 

Now tho' we thought that the Wind did a little 
abate, yet the Ship having thus flruck upon the 
Sand, and flicking too fafl rbr us to exped her get- 
ting offi we were in a dreadful Condition indeed, 
and had nothing to do but to think of faving our 
Lives as well as we could,- we had a Boat at out 
Stern jidl before the Storm, but Ihe was firft ftav'd, 
by daihing againfl the Ship's Rudder, and in the 
next place (he broke away, and either funk or was 
driven oft" to Sea, fo there was no hope from her ; 
we had another Boat on board, but how to get 
her oft into the Sea was a doubtful thing ; how- 
ever there was no room to debate, for we fancy *d 
the Ship would break in pieces every Minute, and 
fome told us (he was adtually broken already. 

In this Diflrefs the Mate of our Veflel lays hold 
of the Boat, and with the help of the reft of the 
Men they got her flung over the Ship fide, and 
getting all into her, let go, and committed out 
lelves, being 1 1 in Number, to God's Mercy and 
the wild Sea ; for tho' the Storm was abated con- 
fiderably, yet the S.^a went dreadful high upon 
the Shore, and might well be call'd. Den mid Zee^ 
as the Diiteh call the Sea in a Storm* 

£ And 



[50] 

And now our Cafe was very difmal indeed ; for 
we all faw plainly, chat the Sc:a went fo higii, that 
the Boat could not live, and that we fhould be ine- 
vitably drown'd. As to making Sail, we had none, 
nor, if we had, could we have done any thing with 
it j -To we work'd at the Oar towards the Land, 
tho' with heavy Hearts, like Men going to Executi- 
on; for we aii knew, that when the Boat came nea- 
rer the Shore, (he would be dafli'd in a thoufand 
Pieces by the Breach of the Sea. However we 
committed our Sor.ls to God in the mod earneft 
manner, and the Wind driving us towards the Shore^ 
we haften'd our 'D^dmCtion with our own Hands, 
pulling as v^^cU as we could towards Land. 

What the Shore was, whether Rock or Sand, 
whether Steep or Shoal, we knew not ,* the only 
Hope that could rationally givQ us the Icafl Shadow 
of Expedation, was, ifwe might happen intofome 
Bay or Gulph^ or the Mouth of fome River, where 
by great Chance we might have run our Boat in, or 
got under the Lee of the Land^ and perhaps made 
fmooth Water. But there was nothing of this ap- 
peared ; but as we made nearer and nearer the Shore> 
the Land look'd more frightfu than the Sea. 

After we had row'd, or rather driven about a 
League and a Half, as we reckoned it, a raging 
Wave, Mountain-like, came rowling a-flern of us, 
and plainly bad us expect the Coupe-de-Grace. In a 
word, it took us with fuch a Fury, that it overfet 
the Boat at once ; and feparated us as well from 
the Boat, as from one another, gave us not Time 
hardly to fiy, O God 1 for we are all fwallowcd 
up in a Moment. 

Nothing can defcribe the Confufion of Thought 
which I felt when I funk into the Water j for tho' I 
fwam very well, yet I could not deliver myfelffrom 
the Waves, fo as to draw Breath, 'till the Wave 

having 



E5I] 



having driven me, or rather carried me a vaft way 
on tow^ards the Shore, and having fpent it felf went 
back, and left nie upon the Land almofl dry, but 
half dead with the Water I took in. I had fo much 
Prefence of Mind as well as Breath left, that feeing 
my felf nearer the main Land than I expeded, I got 
upon my Feet, and endeavour'd to make on to- 
wards the Land as fafi: as I could before another 
Wave fliould return and take me up again. But I 
foon found it was impoffible to avoid it, for I faw 
the Sea come after me as high as a great Hill, and 
as furious as an Enemy, which I had no Means or 
Strength to contend with, my Bufinefs was to hold 
my Breath, and raife my felf upon the Water, if I 
could, and fo by fwimming to preferve my breath- 
ing, and pilot my (d( towards the Shore> if pofE- 
ble, my greatefl Concern now being, that the Sea^ 
as it would carry me a great way towards the Shore 
when it came on, might not carry me back again 
with it when it gave back towards the Sea. 

The Wave that came upon me again buried me 
at once 20 or 30 Foot deep in its own Body, and I 
could feel my felf carried with a mighty Force and 
Swiftnefs towards the Shore a very great way, but 
i held my Breath, and airifted my felf to fwim ftiil 
forwards with all my Might. I was ready to burfl: 
with holding my Breathy when as I felt iny felf 
rifmg up, fo to m.y immediate Relief I found my 
Head and Hands fnoot out above the Surface of the 
Water, and tho' it was not two Seconds ot Time 
that I could keep my felf fo, yet it relieved me 
greatly, gave me Breath and new Courage. I was 
covered again with W^ater a good while^i but not 
fo long but I held it out ; and finding the Water 
had fpcnt it (df, and began to return, I ftruek for- 
ward againil the return of the WaveS^ and felt 
Ground again with my Feet I flood ftili a fcv;^ 

E 2 Mo" 



[ 51 ] 

Moments to recover Breath, and till the Waret 
went from me, and then took to my Heels and run, 
.with what Strength I liad, farther towards the 
Shore ; but neither would this deliver me from the 
Fury of the Sea, which came pouring in after me 
again, and twice more I was lifted up by the 
Waves, and carried forwards, as before, the Shore 
being very flat. 

The laft time of thcfe two had well near been 
fatal to me, for the Sea having hurry 'd me along as 
before, landed me, or rather daih d me againlf a 
piece of a Rock, ai^l that with fuch Force, as it 
left me fenllefs, and indeed helplefs as to my own 
Deliverance, tor the Blow taking my Side and 
Breaft, beat the Breath as it were quite out of my 
Bod}^, and had it returned again immediately I 
muft have been Itrangled in the Water, but 1 re- 
covered a little before the return of the Waves j 
and feeing I fhouid be cover'd again with the Wa- 
ter, I refolv'd to hold faft by a piece of the Rock, 
and fo to hold my Breath, ii poflible, till the Wave 
went back ; now as the WMves were not fo high as 
at tirft, being near Land, I held my Mold nil the 
Wave abated , and then fetch^'d another Run , 
which broiiglit me fo near tlie Shore, that the 
next Wave, tho' it went over me, yet did not fo 
fwallow me up as to cart} me away, afid the next 
Run I took i got to the main Land, where, to 
my great Comfort, I clamber'd up the CliFts of 
the Shore, and fat me down upon the Grafs, free 
from Danger, and quite cut of the reach of the 
Water. 

I was now landed,and fafe on fliore,and began to 
look up and thank God that my Life was fav'd in a 
Cafe wherein there was fome minutes before fcarcc 
any room to hope. I believe it is impofTible to ex- 
prefsto theLife what thcExtaficsandTranfports erf 

the 



r55] 

the Spill are, when it is fo /av'd, as I may Hiy, out 
pt the very Grave; and I do not wonder npvv at 
that Cuftom, viz,. That when a Malefador, who 
has the Halter about his Ne^k, is ty'd up, andjuft 
going to be turned otf, and has a Reprieve broiighc 
to him : 1 fay, I do not wonder that they bring a 
Surgeon with it, I do not wonder that very Mo-^ 
menc they teil him ot it, that the Snrprize may 
not drive the animal Spirits trom the Heart, an4 
pver whelm hhn : 

ForfuddenJoySy like Griefs, confound at fir fl. 

I walk'd about on the Shore, h'fcing up mvHands 
and my whole Being, as 1 may fay, wrapt up in the 
Conccmpiation of my Deliverance, making a thou- 
fand Geilures and Motions which I cannot defcribe* 
reflecting upon all myComrad'^s that were drown*d> 
and rhat there (houid 'noc be one Soul fav'd but my 
feif i for, as for them, I never law them afterwards* 
or any Sign of them, except three of their Hats> 
one Cap, and two Shoes clut were not Fellows. 

1 caft my Eyes to the branded Veifel, luhen the 
Breach and Froth of the Sea being lo big, I coul4 
hardly fee it, ic lay fo far otf, and conlider'd. Lord! 
how was ic poifible I could gee on Shore ! 

Afcet I had folac'd myMiPid with the comfortable 
Partofmy Condition, I began to look round me to 
fee what kind of Place 1 was in, and what was next 
to be done, and I iooii found my Comforts abate; 
and that, in a word, 1 had a dreadful Deliverance : 
For I was Vv-et, had no Cloathv to (hift me, nor any 
thing cirh'cr to eat or dnnk to comfort me, neither 
did i fee any Profpect beiore me, but that of pq- 
rifningwith Hunger, or being devour'd by v^ild' 
Beails ; and that which was particularly affliding 
to me, was, that i had no VVeapon cither to hunt 

E 5^ and 



[54 1 

^nd kill any Creature for my Suilenance, or to do- 
fend my felf againft any other Creature that might 
defire to kill me for their's : In a word, I had no- 
thing about me but a Knife, a Tobacco-pipe, and a 
little Tobacco in a Box; this was all my Provifion, 
and this threw me into terrible Agonies of Mind, 
that for a while 1 run about like a Mad-man ; Night 
coming upon me, I began with a heavy H^art to 
confider what would be my Lot if there were a- 
ny ravenous Beafls in that Country, feeing at 
Night they always come abroad for their Prey. 

All the Remedy that ofter'd to my Thoughts at 
that Time, was, to get up into a thick bufhy 
Tree like aFirr, but thorny, which grew near me, 
and where I refolv'd to fital.l Night, and confider 
the next Day what Death I frould dk, tor as yet I 
faw no Profped of Life; I wa,lk'd about a Furlong 
from the Shore, to fee if I could find .?ny frefh Wa^ 
ter to drink, which I did, to my great Joy ; and ha- 
ving drank, and put a little Tobacco m my Mouth 
to prevent Hunger, I went to the Tree, and get- 
ting up into ir, endeavour'd to place my felf fo, as 
that It' I fhould ileep, I m^ghr not fall ; and having 
cut me a (Iiort Stick, like a Truncheon, for my 
Defence, I took up my Lodging, and having been 
excelTively fatigu'd, I fell fait aileep, and flept as 
comrcrcab'y as, I be'ieve, few could have done in 
my Condiuon, and found ni) k'[t\h^ moft refrefh'd 
with ir, that i think I ever was on fuch an Occ^- 
fion. 

When I wak'd, it was broad Day, the Weather 
clear, and the Storm abated, fo that the Sea did 
not rai-e avid fwcll as before : But that which fur- 
priz a me moil, was, that the Ship was lifted off 
in tlie Night from the Sand where (he lay, by 
the Swelling of the Tide, and was driven rp al- 
moft as far as the Rock;, Avhxh 1 firft menticnedv 

where 



where I had been fo bruis'dbythe dafliing me^- 
gainft it,- this being within about a Mile from the 
Shore where I was, and the Ship feeming to ftand 
upright ftill, I Willi 'd myfelF on Board, that, at 
]eaft, I might fave fome ncceflary Things for my 
Ufe. 

When I came down from my Appartment in the 
Tree, I look'd about me again, and the firft Thing 
1 found was the Boat, which lay as the Wind ana 
the Sea had tofs'd her up upon the Land, about 
two Miles on my Right-Hand. I walk das far as I 
could upon the Shore to have got to her, but found 
a Neck or Inlet of Water between me and the 
Boat, which was about half a Mile Broad, fo I 
came back for the prefent, being more intent upon 
getting at the Ship, where I hop'ci to find fome- 
thing tor my prefent Subfiftence. 

A little after Noon I found the Sea very calm, 
and the Tide ebb'd fo far out, that I could come 
within a quarter of a Mile of the Ship,- and here 
1 found a frefli renewing of my Grief, for I faw 
evidently that if we had kept on Board, we had 
been all fafe, that is to fay, we had all got fafe 
on Shore, and I had not been fo miferable as to, 
be left entirely deflitutc of all Comfort and Com- 
pany, as now I was; this forced Tears from my 
Eyes again, but as there was little Relief in that, 
I refolv'd, if poffible, to get to the Ship, fo I 
puU'd off my Cloaths, for the Weather was hot to 
Extremit}s and took the Water,* but when I came 
to the Si>ip, my Difficulty was flill greater to 
know how to get on Board, for as fhe lay a-ground, 
and high out oF the Water, there was nothing 
within my Reach to lay hold of, I fwam round 
her twice, and the fecond Time I fpy'd a fmall 
Piece of a Rope, which I wondered I did not fee 
^t firft, hang down by the Fore-Chains fo low, 

E 4 as 



[ 5^] 

as that with great Difficulty I got hold of it, and 
by the help of that Rope, got up into the Fore- 
caftleof the Ship, here I found that the Ship was 
bulg'd, and had a great deal ol-^ Water in her Hold,. 
hut that flie lay fo on the Side of a Bank of hard 
Sand, or rather Earth, and her Stern lay lifted up 
upon the Bank, and her Head low almofl to 
the Water; by this Means all her Oiiarter was 
free v and all that was in that Part was dry ; 
for ycu may be fure my firft Work was to fearch 
and to fee what was fpoil'd, and wliat v»sas 
free; and firlt, I found that all the Ship's Pro- 
viiicns were dry and untoiich^'d by the Water^ 
and being very well difpos'd to eat, I went to 
the Bread-Room and riird my Pockets with Bif- 
ket, and eat it as I went about other Things, 
for I had no time to lofe ? I alfo found Tome Rum 
in the great Cabin, of which I took a large 
Dram, and which 1 had indeed need enough of 
to fpirit mc for what was before me : Now I 
wanted nothing but a Boat lo furnifh my felf with 
many Things which 1 forefaw would be very ne- 
cellary to tne. 

It was in vain to fit Rill and wifh for what was 
not to be had, and this Extremicy rouz'd my 
Application; we had feveral (pare Yards, and 
two or three large Spans of wood, and a fpare 
Top-mail or two in the Snip ; I refo.v'd to fall to 
woik wiih thefe, and fljng as many of them 
over Board; as I could miinage for their Weight, 
tying every one with a Rop;:, that they might 
not drive away; when this was done I went down 
the Siiip's Side, and pulling them to me, I ty'd 
four of them faff together at both Ends as well 
as I coi.ild, in the Form of a Raft, and la}ing 
two or three fhorc Pieces of Plank upon them 
i;rofs-ways, 1 found I coi:ld walk upon it very 

well. 



[,.57 ] 

well, but that It was, able to bear any great 
Weight, the Pieces being too lights fo I went to 
work, and with the Carpenter's Saw I cut a fpare 
Top-maft into three Lengths, and-addedthem to 
my Rafc, with a great deal of Labour and Pains, 
buthopeof furniftiing myfelfwith Neceifaries, en- 
courag'd me to go beyond what I ihould have been 
able to have done upon another Occafion. 

My Rafc was now firong enough to bear any 
reafonable Weight ; my next Care was what to 
load It with, and how to preferve whatliaidupoa 
it from the Surf of the Sea ; but I was not long con- 
lidering this, I firfl: laid all the Planks or Boards up- 
on it that I could get, and having confider'd well 
what I moll wanted, I hrft got three of the Sea- 
meis Cbefls, which I had had broken open and em- 
pty 'd, and lower 'd them down upon my Raft; the 
firftofthefe J. hlfd with Proviiions, 'z;/^:,. Bread, 
Rice, three Dutch Cheefes, five Pieces of dry'd 
Goat's, Fk{h,which weiiv'dmuch upon, and a little 
Remainder at European Corn, which had been laid 
by for fome Fowls which we brought to Sea with 
us, but the Fowls werekill'd j there had been fome* 
Barlyand V/heat together, but, to my great Dif- 
appointment, I found afterwards that the Rats had 
eaten or fpoil'd it ail ,• as for Liquors, I found fe- 
veral Cafes of Bottles belonging to our Skipper, in 
which were fome Cordial Waters, and in all about 
five or fix Gallons of Rack, thefe I ftow'd by 
them.felves, there being no need to put them into 
the Chefl, nor no room for them. While I was 
doing this, I found the Tide begin to flow, tho* 
very calm, and I had the Morcification to fee my 
Coat, Shirt, and Waft coat, which I had left on 
Shore upon the Sand, fwim away ; as for my 
Breeches, which were only Linnen and open-knec'd, 
1 fwam on Board in them and my Stockings; How- 
ever 



l5S] 

^ver this put me upon rummaging for Cloaths, of 
which I found enough, but took no more than I 
wanted for prefent Ufc, for I had other Things 
which my Eye was more upon, as hrfl Tools to 
work with on Shpre, and it was after long fearch- 
ingthat I found out the Carpenter's Chefl, which 
was indeed a very ufeful Prize to me, and much 
more valuable than a Ship Loading of Gold would 
have been at that time ; I got it down to my Raft, 
even whole as it was, without loling Time to look 
into it, fori knew in general what it contained. 

My next Care was for fome Ammunition and 
Armsi there were two very ^ood Fowling-Pieces 
in the great Cabin, and two Piflols, thefe 1 fe- 
cur'd tirft, with fome Powder-Horns, and a fmail 
Bag of Shot, and two old rufty Swords ; I knew 
there were three Barrels of Powder in the Ship, 
but knew not where our Gunner had flowed them, 
but with much Search I found them, two of them 
dry and good, the third had taken Water, thole 
two I go: to my Rafc, with the Arms, and now 
I thought my lei f pretty well freighted, and be- 
gan to think hovvl fhould get to Shore with them, 
having neither Sail, Oar, or Rudder, andthelcaft 
Cap fuil of vVind would have cverfet all my Na; 
vigation. 

I had three Encouragements, i. A fmooth 
calm Sea. 2. Tne Tide rifing, and fetting in to. 
the Shore. 3. What iicile Wind there was blew 
me towards the Land ; and thus, having found two 
or three broken Oars belonging to the Boat, and 
bciidesthe Tools which where in the Cheft, 1 found, 
two Sav/s, an Axe, and a Hammer, and with this 
Cargo I put to Sea : For a Miie, or thereabouts my 
Raft went very well, only that I [bund it drive a 
lirtle diiiant from the Pkcc v/here I had landed be- 
iorCj b.y which I perceiv'd that there was fome Li- 

draft 



[59] 

^raft of the Water, and confeqiiently, I hop'd to 
find fome Creek or River there, which I might 
make ufe ot as a Port to get to Land with my 
Cargo. 

As limaglii'd, (o k was, there appear'd before 
me a little opening of the Land, and I found a 
ftrong Current of the Tide to fet into it, fo I gui- 
ded my Raft as well as I could to keep in the Mid- 
dle of the Stream : But here I had like to have fuf- 
fer'd a fccond Shipwreck, which, if I had, 1 think 
verily would have broke my Heart, for knowing 
nothing of the Coaft, my Raft run a-ground at one 
End of it upon a Shoal, and not being a-ground at 
thq other End, it wanted but a little that all my 
Cargo had llipp'd off towards that End that was 
a-float, and fo falln into the Water: I did my ut- 
moft by fetting my Back againft the Chefts, to keep 
them in their Places, but could not thrufi: off the 
Raft with all my Strength, neither durfl I flir 
from the PoUure I was in, but holding up the 
Chefts with all my Might, flood in that Manner 
near half an Hour, in wkich time the rifing of the 
Water brought me a little more upon a Level, 
and a Iktlc after, the Water frill rifing, my Raft 
floated again, and I thrufi her off with the Oar I 
had, into the Channel, and then driving up higher, 
1 at length found my felf in the Mouth of a little 
River, with Land on both Sides, and a flrong 
Current or Tide running up, I look'd on both Sides 
for a proper Place to get to Shore, for I was not 
willing to be driven too high up the River, ho-^ 
ping in time to fee feme Ship at Sea, and there- 
fore refolv'd to place my felf as near the Coafl as I 
could. 

At length I fpy'd a linle Cove on the right 
Shore of the Creek, to which with great Pain and 
Piijiculty I guided my Raft^ and atlaft gotfo near, 

asi 



[do-] 

as that, reaching Ground with my Qar, I coul4 
thruft her directly in, but here I l^ad like lo nave 
dipt all my Cargo in the Sea again ; for that Shore 
lying pretty fieep, that is to fay Hoping, there 
was no Place to land, but where one End of my 
Float, if it run en Shore, ^vpuld lie i'o high, and 
ihe other fink lower as before, that it \voLild en- 
danger my Cargo ag.. in: All that 1 could do, was 
to wait 'till the Tide was at the highefr, keeping 
the Raft with my Oar like an Anchor to hold the 
Side of it taft to the Shore, n^ar a flat Piece of 
Ground which I expected the Water would flow 
over ; and [o it did : As foon as I found V/ater 
enough) for my Raft drew about a Foot of Water, 
I thruft her on upon ihi.t flat Peice of Gro:;rjd, and 
there fallen'd or mor'd her by flicking my two 
broken Oars into the Ground ; one on one Side 
near one End, and one or the other Side near the 
other End ; and thus I \dy till the Water ebb'd a- 
way, and left my Raft and all my Cargo fafe on 
Shore. 

My next Work was to view the Country, and 
feek 3, proper Place for my Habitation, and where 
to itow my Goods to f^xure them from whatever 
might happen ; where I was, I yet knew not, wlic- 
ther on the Contiijcnt or on an Ifland, whether in- 
hab-ted, or not inhab-cedj whether in Danger of 
Wild Beafls or not : There was a Hill not above a 
Mile from, m^, which rofe up very ifeep and high, 
ard which fcrtin'd to over top fome other Hills, 
which lay as in a Ridge from it Northward ; I cook 
out one Ol the Fowl in (^-Pieces, and one of the Pi- 
£ols, and an Horn of Powder, ai:d thus arm'd I 
travelled for Difcover} v.p to the Top of that Hill, 
where after I had witji great Labour and Diflicul- 
ty got to the Top, I law my Fate to my great Af- 
iliCticn, (z'lZ:) that I was in an liland environ'd 

cverv 



every way with the Sea, no Land to be Teen, ex- 
cept iome Rocks, which lay a great way off, and 
two firiall libnds Ids than this, which lay about 
three Leagues to the Weft. 

i iound alfo that the liland I was in was barren, 
and, as I faw good reafon to 'relieve, uninhabited, 
except by wi d Beafts, of whom however I faw 
none, yet I faw abundance of Fowls, but knew 
not their Kinds, neither when I kili'd them could 
I tell what was fit for Food and what not ; at my 
coming back I fhot at a great Bird, which 1 faw 
iitting upon a Tree on the lide of a great Wood, I 
believe it was the iirft Gun that had been fir'd 
there fince the Creation of the World , I had no 
fooner fir'd, but from all the Parts of the Wood 
there arofe an innumerable Number of Fowls of 
many forts, making a confus^'d fcreaming and cry- 
ing, every one according to his ufual Note, but 
not one of them of any Kind that I knew : as for 
the Creature 1 kill'd, I took it to be a Kind of a 
Hawk, its Colour and Beak refembling it, but had 
no Talons or Claws more than common, its Flefli 
was Carrion, and ht for notliing. 

Contented with this Difcovery I came back to 
my Raft, and (ell to work to bring my Cargo on 
fhore, w^hich took me up the refl: of that Day, and 
what to do with my ielf at Night I knew not, nor 
indeed where to reit, for I was afraid to lie down 
on the Ground, not knowing but fome wild Beaft 
might devour me, tho', as I afterwards found, there 
was really no need for thofe Fears. 

However, as "well as I could, I barricado'd my 
felf round with the Chelts and Boards that I had 
brought on (liore, and made a kind of a Hut for 
that Nighty's Lodging ; as for Food, I yet faw not 
which way to fupply my k\i:\ except that I had 

feea 



161-] 

Teen two or three Creatures like Hares run out o^ 
the Wood where I fiiot the Fowl. 

I now began to confider, that I might yet get a 
great many Things out of the Ship which would 
be ufeful to me, and particularly fome of the Rig- 
ging and Sails, and fuch other Things as might 
come to Land, and I refolved to make another 
Voyage on board the Veflel, if polFiblej and as I 
knew that the Hrft Storm that blew muft neceffari- 
ly break her all in pieces, I refoly'd to let all other 
Things apart till I got every Thing out of the Ship 
that I could get ; then I call'd a Council, that is 
to fay, in my Thoughts, whether I fhoiild take 
back the Ratt, but this appear'd impradicable; 
fo I refolved to go as before, when the Tide was 
down, and I did fo, only that I flripp'd before I 
went from my Hut, having nothing but a che- 
iquer'd Shirt, a Pair of Linnen Drawers, and a Pair 
of Pumps on my Feet. 

I got on board the Ship, as before, and prepared 
a fecond Raft, and having had Experience of the 
firfi:, I neither made this fo unweildy, nor loaded 
it fo hard, but yet I brought away feveral Tliings 
very ufeful to me ; as firft, m the Carpenter's Stores 
1 found two or three Bags full of Nails and Spikes, 
a great skrcw Jack, a Dozen or two of Hatchets^ 
and above all, that mofl ufeful Thing caii'J a 
Grindflonc, all thefe I fccur'd together, with feve- 
ral Things belonging to the Gunner, particularly 
two or three Iron Crows, and two Barrels of Mus- 
ket Bullets, feven Muskets, and another Fowling 
Piece, with fome fmall Qtiantity of Powder more, 
a large Bag full of fmall Shot, and a great Roll of 
Sheet Lead, but this was fo heavy I could not 
hoife it up to get it over the Ship fide. 

Belides thefe things I took all the Mens Cloaths 
that I could find, and a fpare Fore-top-fail, a Ham- 
mocker 



mock andfome Beddings and with this I loaded, 
my fccond Raft, and brought them all fafe on Shore 
to my very great Comfort. 

I was under fome Apprehenfions during my Ab- 
fence from the La!:d, chat at ieafl: my Provifions 
might be devoured on Shore ; but when 1 came back, 
I found no Sign of any Viiitor, only there fat a 
Cre^^tor like a wild Cat upon one of the Chefts, 
v/hich when I came towards it, ran away a little 
Diftance, and then flood flill ; flie fat very com- 
pos'd, and unconcern'd, looked full in my Face, 
as if (he had a Mind to be acquainted with me, I 
prefented my Gun at her, but as fhe did notunder- 
lland it, fiie was perfedly unconcern'd at it, nor 
d id (he offer to flir away ; upon which I tofsM heir 
a bit of Bisket, tho' by the Way I was not very 
free oi it, for my Store was not great : However, 
Ifpar'd her a bit, I fay, and fhe went to it, fmell'd 
of it, and eat it, and look'd (as pleas'd) for more^ 
but I thank'd her, and could fpare no more j fo (he 
marchM off. 

Having got my fecond Cargo on Shore, tho' I 
\^'as fain to open the Barrels of Powder, and bring 
them by Parcels, fo they were too heavy, being 
large Casks , I v^^ent to work to make me a little 
Tent with the Sail and fome Poles which I cut for 
that purpofe, and into this Tent I brought every 
Thing that I knew would fpoil, either with Rain 
or Sun, and I piled all the empty Chefls and Casks 
up in a Circle round the Tent, to fortify it from a- 
ny fudden Attempt, either from Man or Beaft. 

When I had done this I blocked up the Door of 
the Tent with fome Boards within, and an empty 
Cheft fet up an End without, and fpreading one 
of the Beds upon the Ground, laying my two Pi- 
ftolsj.ift at my Flead, and m.y Gun at Length by 
me, 1 went to Bed for the firft Time, and flept 

very 



f ^4] 



Very quietly all Night, for I was very weary and 
heavy, for the Night before I had flept little, and 
had laboiir'd very hard all Day, as well to fetch 
all thofe Things from the Ship, as to get them on 
Shore. 

I had the biggefl: Magazine of all Kinds now 
that ever was laid up, I believe, for one Man ; 
but I was not fatis^y'd flill, for while the Ship fat 
upright in that Poflure, I thought I ought to get 
every thing out of her that I could, fo every Day 
at low Water 1 went on board, and brought away 
fome thing or other; but particularly the third 
time I went I brought away as much of the Rig- 
ging as I could, as alfo all the fmall Ropes and 
Rope-twine I could get, with a Piece of fpare Can- 
vafs, which was to mend the Sails upon occalion, 
the Barrel of wet Gunpowder,* in a word,I brought 
away all the Sails Erll andlafl:, only that I was 
fain to cut them in pieces, and bring as much at a 
time as I could, for they were no more ufeful to 
be Sails, but as meet Canvafs only. 

But that which comforted me more flill was, 
that at laft of all, after I had made five or fix fuch 
Voyages as thefe, and thought I had nothing more 
to expe(5i from the Ship that was Vv^orth my med- 
ling with, I fay, after all this, I found a great Hog- 
Ihead of Bread, and three large Runlets of Rum or 
Spirits, and a Box of Sugar, and a Barrel of fine 
Flower, this was furprizing to me, becaufe I had 
given over expeding any more Provifions, except 
what was fpoifd by the VVater; I foon emptied the 
Hogfhead of that Bread, and wrapt it up Parcel 
by Parcel in pieces of the Sails, which I cut out; 
and in a word, I got all this fafe on fhore alfo. 

The next Day I made another Voyage ; and 
now having plundered the Ship of what was porta- 
ble 



C^5] 

ble and fit to hand out, I began with the Cables ; 
and cutting the great Gable into P.eces, fiich as 
I could mov'e, I got two Cables and a Hawfer on 
Shore, with all the Iron-work I could get ; and 
having cut down the Spritfail-yard, and the Mif- 
fen-yard, and every Thing I could to make a large 
Raft, I loaded with it all thofe heavy Goods, and 
came away : but my good Luck began now to 
leave me; for this Raft was fo unweildy, and fo 
overloaden, that after I was enrer'd the little Cove, 
where I had landed the reft of my Goods, not be- 
ing able to guide it fo handily as I did the other, 
it overfet, and threw me and all my Cargo into 
the VV^rer ; as for my felf it was no great Harm, 
for I was near the Snore ; but as to my Cargo, 
it was great Part of it loft, efpecially the Iron, 
which I expected wou'd have been of great Ufe 
tome : However, when the Tide was out, I got 
moft of the Pieces or Cable afhore, andfome of 
the Iron, tho' with infinite Labour ,* for I was fain 
to dip for it into the Water, a Work which fa- 
tigu'd me very much : After this I went every Day 
on Board, and brought away what I could get. 

1 had been now thirteen Days on Shore, and had 
been eleven times on Board the Ship ; in which 
'Time I had brought away all that one Pair of 
jlands could well be fuppos'd capable to bring, tho* 
I believe verily, had the calm Weather held, I 
fhould have brought away the whole Ship Piece 
by Piece : But preparing the 1 2th Time to go on 
Board, I found the Wind began to rife ; however 
at low Water I went on Board, and tho' I thought 
I had rumag'd the Cibin fo etfedualiy, as that no- 
thing more could be found, yet I difeover^d a Lock*^ 
er with Crawers in it, in one of which I found two 
or three Razors, and one Pair of large Seiflars, 
with fome ten or a dozen of good Knives and 

F Foaks ; 



A 



[ ^^ ] 

Forks ; in another I found about Thirty fix Pound 

value in Money, fome European Coin, fome B.afjy 

fonie Pieces ot Eight, lome Gold, fome Silver. 

1 fmifd to my felt at the Sight of this Money, 

Diug 1 faid I aloud, what art thou good for ? 
Thou ar: not worth to me, no not the taking off 
of the Ground, one of thofe Knives is worth all 
this Heap, I have no Manner ot ufe for thee, e'en 
remain v/here thou art, and go to the Bottom as 
a Creature whofe Life is not \vorth faving. How- 
ever upon fecond Thoughts, I took it away, and 
wrapping all this in a Piece ot Canvas, I began 
to thing ot making another Raft, but while I was 
preparuig this, I lound the Sky over caft and the 
Wind began to rife, and in a Quarter of an Hour 
it blew a frefh Gale from the Shore ; it prefently 
occur'd to mej that it was in vain to pretend to 
make a Raft with the Wind off Shore, and that 
it was my Buiinefs to be gone before the Tide of 
Flood began, ctherwife I might not be able to 
reach the Shore at all : Accordingly I let my 
felf down into the Water, and fwam crofs the 
Channel, which lay between the Ship and the 
Sands, and even that wirh Difficulty enough, part- 
ly with the Weight of the Things 1 had about me, 
and partly the roughncfs of the Water, for the 
Wind rofe very haftily, and before it was quite 
high Water, it blew a Storm. 

But 1 was got Home to my little Tent, where 

1 lay with ail my Wealth about me very fecure. 
I blew very hard all that Night and in tiie Morn- 
ing when I look'd out, behold no m..re Ship was to 
be feen j I was a little furpriz'd, but recover'd my 
felf v/ith this fatisfa(5i:ory Refl£(5tion, viz.. That I 
had loft no Time, nor abated no Diligence to get 
every Thing out of her that could be iifeful to me, 
and that indeed there was little left in her^ that I 

was 



[<^7] 

was able to bring away, if I had had more 
Time. 

I now gave over any more Thoughts of the 
Ship, or of any Thing out of her, except wlut 
might drive on Shore from her Wreck, as indt'cd 
divers Pieces of her afterwards dia ; but tjiofe 
Things were of fmaU Ufe to me. 

My Thoughts were now wholly employed about 
fecuring my felf, either againft Savages, if any 
fliould appear, or wild Beafts, it' any were in the 
Ifland ; and I had many Thoughts of the Method 
how to do this, and wliatkind of Dwelling to make, 
whether I fhould make me a Cave in the Earth, oc 
a Tent upon the Earth : And, in fhort, I refolv'd 
upon both, the Manner and Defcription of which 
it may not be improper to give an Account of. 

I foon found the Place I was in was not for my 
Settlement, particularly becaufe in v/asuponalow 
moorifh Ground near the Sea, and 1 believed 
would not be wholefome, and more particularly 
becaufe there was no frefh Water near it, fo I re- 
folv'd to find a more healthy and more convenient 
Spot of Ground. 

I confuUed feveral Things in my Situation which 
I found would be proper for me, ill. Health, and 
frefh Water I juft now mention'd. zdiy, Shelter 
from the Heat of the Sun. ^dly, Security from 
ravenous Creatures, whether Men or Beads. 4thly, 
a View to the Sea, that it' God fent any Ship in 
Sight, I might not lofe any Advantage for my De- 
liverance, ot' which I was not willing to banifh all 
my Expedation yet. 

In fearch of a Place proper for this, I found a 
little Plain on the fide of a rifing Hill, whofe 
Front towards this little Plain was deep as a 
Houfe-fide, fo that nothing could come down 
upon me from the Top ; on the fide of this Rock 

f 2 there 



[d8] 



there was a hollow Place worn a little Way in likd" 
the Entrance or Door ot a Cave, but there was noc 
really any Cave or Way into the Rock at all. 

On the Hat ot the Green, jiift beFore this holloW 
Place, Irefolv'd to pitch my Tent : This Plain was 
not above an hundred Yards broad, and about 
twice as long, and lay like a Green before my 
Door, and at the End of it defcendcd irregularly 
every Way down into the low Grounds by the 
Sea-fide. It was on the N. N.IV. Side of the Hill, 
fo that I was flielter'd from the Heat every Day, 
t\\ it came to a W. and by S. Sun, or thereabouts> 
which in thofe Countries is near the Setting. 

Before I fe: up my Tent, I drew a half Circle 
before the hollow Place, which took in about ten 
Yards in its Semi-diameter from the Rock, and 
twenty Yards in its Diameter, from its Beginning 
and Ending. 

In this half Circle I pitch/'d two Rows of ftrong 
Stakes, driving them into the Ground till they 
flood very firm like Piles, the biggefl End being 
out of the Ground about five Foot and an half, 
and (harpenM on the Top ; the two Rows did noc 
{land above C\x Inches from one another. 

Then I took the Pieces of Cable which I had cut 
in the Ship, and laid them in Rows one upon 
another, within the Circle between thefe two 
Rows of Stakes, up to the Top, placing othei? 
Stakes in tlie Infide, leaning again fl them, about 
two Foot and a half high, like a Spur to a Poft, 
and this Fence was fo ftrong, that neither Man ot 
Bcaft could get into it or over it : This coft me 
a great deal of Time and Labour, efpecially to cut 
the Piles in the Woods, bring them to the Place, 
and drive them into the Earth. 

The Entrance into this Place I made'to be not 
by a Door, but by a fliort Ladder^, to go over 

the 



the Top, which the Ladder, when I was in ThTted 
over after me, and (o I was compleatiy fenced in, 
and forifyM, as I thought, from all the World, 
and corifequently flept fecure in the Night, which 
other wife I could not have done, tho' as it appeared 
afterward, there was no need of all this Caution 
from the Enemies that I apprehended Danger from. 

Into this Fence or Fortrefs, with infinite La- 
bour, I carry "d all my Riches, all my Provifions, 
Ammunition and S tortus, of which you have the 
Account above, and I made me a large Tent, which 
to preferve me from the Rains, that in one Part of 
the Year are very violent there, I made double, viz. 
one fmaller Tent within, and one larger Tent above 
it, and coverM the uppermofl: with a larger Tar- 
paulin which I had fav'd among the Sails. 

And now I lay no more for a while in the Bed 
which I had brought on Shore, but in a Ham- 
mock, which was indeed a very good one, and be- 
longed to the Mace ofthe Ship. 

Into this Tent I brought all my Provifions, and 
every thing that would ipoil by the Wet, and ha- 
ving thus enclosed all my Goods, I made up the 
Entrance, which till now I had left open, and fo 
pafs'd and repafs'd, as I faid by a fhort Ladder. 

When I had done this, I began to work my Way 
into the Rock, and bringing all the Earth and 
Stones that I dug down out thro"* my Tent, I laid 
""cm up within my Fence in the Nature of a Ter- 
ras, that fo it raised the Ground within about a 
Foot and half,* and thus I made me a Cavejuft 
behind my Tent, which ferv'd me like a Ceiiar to 
py Houfe. 

It coft me much Labour, and'many Days, be- 
fore all thefe things were brought to Perfedioni and 
therefore I muft go back tofome other things which 
took up fome of my Thoughts. Ac the fame time it 
F 3 happen'dj 



[70] 

happened after I had laid my Scheme for the fet- 
ting up my Tent, and making the Cave, that a 
Storm of Rain falling from a thick dark Cloud, a 
fudden Flafh of Lightning happened, and after 
that a great Clap of Thunder, as is naturally the 
Efted of it ; I was not fo much furpriz'd with the 
Lightning, as I was with a Thought which dar- 
ted into my Mind as fwift as the Lightning it felf : 
O my Powder ! my very Heart funk within me, 
when I thought, that at one Blafl all my Powder 
may be dellroy'd; on which, not my Defence on- 
ly, but the providing me Food, as I thought, en- 
tirely depended ; I was nothing near fo anxious a- 
bout my own Danger, tho' had the Powder took 
fire, I had never known who had hurt me. 

Such ImprelTion did this make upon me, that 
after the Storm was over, I laid afide all my 
Works, m.y Buildings, and Fortifying, and ap- 
ply'd my felf to make Bags and Boxes to feparate 
the Powder, and keep it a little and a little in a 
Parcel, in hope, that whatever might come, it 
might not all take Fire at once, and to keep it fo 
apart, that it fhould not be poifible to make one 
Part fire another. I finifh'd this Work in about a 
Fortnight, and I think my Powder, which in all 
was about 240 lb. we'ghr, was divided, in not lefs 
than a hundred Parcels ; as to the Barrel that had 
been wet, I did not apprehend any Danger from 
that, To I plac'd it in my new Cave, whch in my 
Fancy I cali'd my Kitchen, and the refl I h"d up 
and down in Holes among the Rocks, fo that no 
wet might come to it, marking very carefully where 
IJaidir. ■ ^ \ . 

In the Interval of time while this was doing, ' 
went out once at leafi every Day with my Gun, as 
well to divert my lei r, as to fee i^ I could kill any 



tiling 



[y ] 



thing fit for Food, and as near as I could to ac- 
quaint myfelf with what the Ifland produc'd. The 
fixik Time I went out I prefently difcover'd that 
there were Goats in the Ifland, which was a great 
Satisfadion to me; but then it was attended wjth 
this Misfortune to me, viz.. That they were fo 
iiiy, fo fubtile, and fo fwift of Foot, that it was 
the difficiilteft Thing in the World to come at them : 
But I was not difcourag'd at this, not doubting 
but I might now and then fhoct one, as it foon hap- 
pen'd; for after I had found their Haunts a little, 
I laid wait in this Mannerforthem : I obferv'd if 
they faw rac in the Valleys, tho' they were upon 
the Rocks, they would run away as in a terrible 
Fright; but ii they were feeding in the Valleys, 
and I was upon the Rocks, they took no Notice 
of me; from whence I concluded, that by the 
Podtion of their Opticks, their Sight was fo di- 
rected downward, that they did not readily fee 
Objeds that were above them; fo afterwards I 
took this Method, I always climbed the Rocks firfl 
to get above them, and then had frequently a fair 
Mark. The firft Shot I made among thefe Crea- 
tures, I kiil'd a She-Goat which had a little Kid 
by her which flie gave Suck to, which griev'd me 
heartily; but when the old one fell, the Kid flood 
flock ftiil by her 'till I came and took her up ; and 
not only fo, but when I carry 'd the old one with 
me upon my Shoulders, the Kid followed me quite 
to my Enclofure, upon v/hich I laid down the 
Dam, and took the Kid in my ArmSj and car^ 
ry'd it over my Pale, .n Hopes to have bred it up 
tame, but it would not eat, fo I was forced to kill 
it, and eat it myfelf; thefe two fupply'd me with 
Flefh a great while, for I eatfpaiingly; and fav'd 
my Provifions (my Bread efpecially) as much as 
poiTible I could. 

F 4 Having 



[7i ] 

Having nowfix'd my Habiration, I found it ab- 
folutely neceflary to provide a Place to make ^ 
Fire in, and Fewel to burn ; and what I did for 
that, as alfo how I enlarged my Cave, and what 
Conveniencies I made, I fhall give a full Account 
of in its Place: But I mufl firft givQ fome little 
Account of myfelf, and of my Thoughts about 
Living, which itmay well be fuppofed were not a 
few. 

I had a difmal Profped of my Condition, for as 
I was not call away upon that Ifland without be- 
ing driven, as is faid, by a violent Siorm quite out 
of the Courfe of our intended Voyage, and a great 
Way, v^Z'. fome hundreds of Leagues out of the 
ordinary Courfe of the Trade of Mankind, I had 
great Reafon to confider it as a Determination of 
Heaven, that in this defolate Place, and in this 
defolate Manner I fhould end my Life ; the Tears 
would run plentifully down my Face when I made 
thefe Refleclions, and fometime > I would expolbtr- 
late with myfelf, Why Providence fhould thus 
compleatly ruin its Creatures, and render them fo 
abfolutely miferable, fo without Help abandoned, 
{o entirely deprefs'd, that it could hardly be ra- 
tional to be thankful for fuch a Life. 

But fomething always return'dfwift upon me to 
check thefe Thoughts, and to reprove me^ and 
particularly one Day walking with my Gun in my 
Hand by the Sea-lide, I was very peniive upon the 
Subject of my -prefeiit Condition, when Reafon as 
it were expoRulate with me t'other Way, thus-: 
Well, you are in a dcioiate Condition 'tis true, but 
pray remember, Where are the refl: of you? Did 
not you come Eleven of yog into the Boat, where 
are the Ten; Why were not they fav'd, and- you 
Joft ? Why were you (ingrd out ? Is it better to be 
here or there } And then I pointed to the Sea. All 

■ - Evils 



C7n 

Evils are to be confider'd with the Good that is 
in them, and with what worfe attends them. 

Then it occurred to me again, how well I was 
furnifh'd for my Siibfiflence, and what would havQ 
been my Cafe if it had not happened, Which was 
an Hundred T'houfand to Oney that the Ship floated 
from the Place fhe was firft flruck and was dri- 
ven fo near to the Shore, that I had Time to get 
all thefe Things out of her : What would have 
been my Cafe, if I had been to have liv'd in the 
Condition in which I at firft came on Shore, with- 
out Neceflaries of Life, or Neceflaries to fnpply 
and procure them ? Particularly, faid I aloud, (thd" 
to my felf) what fliould I have done without a 
Gun, without Ammunition, without any Tools, 
to make any Thing, or to work with, without 
Cloaths, B^ddhgy a. Tent, or any Manner of 
Covering, and that now I had all thefe to a fu/E- 
tient Quantity, and was in a fair Way to provide 
my felf in fuch a Manner, as to live without 
my Gim when my Ammunition was {pent j fo 
that I had a tollerable View of fubfifting without 
any Want as long as I liv'd ,• for I confi'der'd from 
the beginning how I would provide for the Acci- 
dents that might happen, and for the Time that 
was tocomci even not only after my Ammunition 
fnould be fpent, but even after my Health or 
Strength fliould decay. 

< I confefs I had not entertain'd any Notion of my 
Ammunition being deftroy'd at one Blaft, I mean, 
my Powder being blown up by Lightning, and this 
mad^ the Thoughts of it fo furprifing to me when 
it lightened and thundered, as I obfervM juft now. 
> And now being to enter into a melancholly 
Relation ofa Scene of filent Life, fuch perhaps as 
was never heard of in the World before, I fhall 
t^keit from its Beginning, and continue it in its 
"^ Order 



[74] 

Order. It was by my Account, the 30th o^ Sept. 
when, in the Manner as abovefaid, J. hrft fee Foot 
upon this horrid Ifland, when the Sun being, to. 
lis, in its Autumnal Equinox, was ahnofi: juft over 
mv Head, fori reckoned my felf, by Obfervation, 
to* be in the Latitude of p Degrees 22 Minutes, 
North of the Line. 

After I had been there about ten or twelve 
Days i: came into my Thoughts, that I fuould 
lofe my Reckoning ot Time for want of Books 
2nd P^n and Ink, and fhoald even forget the Sab- 
bath Days from the working Days ; but to prevent 
this, I cut it with my Knife upon a large Poft, in 
Capital Letters, and making it into a great Crofs, 
I fet it up on the Shore where I firft landed, viz.. I 
came on Shore here on the ^oth oj Sept. K559. Upon 
the Sides of this Square Pofl, I cut every Day a 
Kotch with my Knife, and every feventh Notch 
was as long again as the reft, and every firll: Day of 
the Month as long again as that long one, and thus 
1 kept' my Kalender, of weekly, monthly, and 
yearly reckoning of Time. 

-In the next Place we are to obferve, that among 
the- many Things which I brought out of the Ship 
in the feveral Voyages, which asabovcmention'cl, 
I made: to it, I got feveral Things of lefs Value, 
but not at all lefs ufeful to me, which I omitted 
fetting down before ; as in particular, Pens, Ink, 
and Paper, feveral Parcels in the Captain^s, Mate's, 
Gunnery's, and Carpenters, keeping, three or four 
Compaffes, fome Mathematical Inflruments, Di- 
als, Perfpedives, Charts, and Books of Navigati- 
on, all which I huddled together, whether I might 
levant them or no ; alfo I found three very good 
Bibles, which came to me in my Cargo from Eng-- 
Und, and whicii I had pack'd up among my Things : 
fome Portugue^Lc Books alfo, and among them two 

or 



.. [75] 

Or three Popifh Prayer-Books, and fevera! other 
Books,* all which I carefully fecur'd. And I mud: 
not forget, that we had in the Ship a Dog and 
two Cats j of whofe eminent Hiilory, I may have 
Occafion to fay fomething in its Place ,• for I car- 
ry 'd both the Cats with me ; and as for the Dog, 
he jump'd out of the Ship of himfelf and fwam 
on Shore to me the Day after I went on Shore 
with my firft Cargo, and was a trufly Servant to 
me many Years: I wanted nothing he could fetch 
me, nor any Company that he could make up to 
me; I only wanted to have him talk to me, but 
that would not do. As I obferv'd before, I found 
Pen, Ink, and Paper, and I husbanded them to the 
iicmoll: ; and I fhall fhew, that while my Ink la- 
fled, I kept Things very exact -, but after that was 
gone, 1 could not; for I could not make any Ink, 
by any Means that I could devife. 

And this put me in mind that I wanted many 
things, notwithftanding all that I had amafs'd to- 
gether; and of theie, this of Ink was one, as alfo 
Spade, Pick-Ax, and Shovel, to dig or remove 
the Earth, Needles, Pins, and Thread ; as for 
Linnen, I foon learn 'd to want that without much 
Difficulty. 

This Want of Tools made every Work I did, go 
on heavily; and it was near a whole Year before I 
had entirely iinifh'd my little Pale or furrounded 
Habitation : The Piles or Stakes, which were as 
heavy as I could well lift, were a long Time incut- 
ting and preparing in the Woods, and more by far 
in bringing home ; fo that I fpent fometimes two 
Days in cutting and bringing home one of thofe 
Pofts, and a third Day in driving it into the Ground; 
for which Purpofe i got a heavy Piece of Wood 
atfirfl, but ar lad: bethought myfelf of one of the 
Iron Crows, v/iiich however, tho' I found it^, yet 

it 



C 7^ ] ^-^ 

^t made driving thofc Pofts or Pijes very hjioriou^ 
and tedious Work, 

But what need I ha' been concerned at the Te- 
dioufnefs of any Thing I had to do, feeing I had 
'^ime enough to do it in^ nor had I any other Em~ 
ployment, iFthat had been over, at leail, that I 
could [orefee, except the ranging thelfiand to leek 
"for Food, v^hich I did more or lefs every Day. 

I now began to confidcr feriouily my Conditi- 
on, and the Circumftancel was reduced to, and I 
drew up the State of my Aftiirs in Writing, not fo 
much to leave them to any tijat were to come af- 
ter mej for I was like to have but few Heirs, as 
to deliver my Thoughts from daily poring upon 
them, and affiicting my Mind; and as my Reafoa 
began now to mafler my pefpondcncy, 1 began 
to comfort myfel fas well as 1 could, and to, fet 
the Good againft the Evil,' that I might have 
fomething to diflinguifh my Cafe from worfe,* and 
1 flated it^-ery impartially, like Debtor and Cre- 
ditor," the Com.forts I enjoy'd, againfl the Mife^ 
ties I fufter'd, thus : 

Evil. Good. 

I mn cafl upon a horri- Bat I am alive, and 

lie de folate Ifland, void of not diOivnd, as all my 
all Hope of Recovery. Ship's Company was. 

I am fugled ont and fe- But I am fingled out too 

payated, as it were, from from all' the Ship' s Crew to_ 
all the World to he mi- he \pared fromDeath \ and 
Jerahle, he that miraculoufly faved 

mcfrom Deaths can deliver 
me from this Condition, 

lam divided from Man- Biitl amnotfiarvd and 
kind, a Solitaire, one ha- perijhingon a harren Place, 
nijjydjrom humane Society, affording no Snftenance 

I have 



C77] 

/ have no Ckaihs to But I am in a hot Clh 

(over me. mate^ichereif I hadCloatts 

I could hardly -wear them, 

I am ivtthout any De- But lam cafl on an I- 

fence or Means to refifl any Jland, ivhere I fee no wild 
Violence oj Man or Bea(i. Beafts to hurt me^ ai I favj 

on the Coaft of Africa : 
And what if I had been 
Shipwrecked there ? 

J have no Soul toffeak But God wonderfully 

iOf or relieve me, fent the Ship in near enough 

to the Shore, that I have 
gotten out fo many neceffa- 
ry 'Things as will either 
fupply my Wants, or ena- 
ble me to fupply my felf e- 
ven 06 long ai I live. 

Upon the wholes he?e was an undoubted Telli- 
mony, that there was fcarce any Condition in the 
World fo miferable, but there was fomethingw^^^- 
tive, or fomething;'o//;m/6', to be thankful for in it 
and let this Hand as a Direi^ion from the Experi- 
ence of the mofi: miferab'e of all Conditions in; 
this World, that we may always find in it fome- 
thing to comfort our fcives from, and to fet in the 
Defcription of Good and Evil, on the Credit Side 
of the Account. 

Having now brought my Mind a little to relifli 
my Condition, and given over the looking to Sea, 
to fee if I could fpy a Ship ; I fay, ^iwiug over 
thefe Things, I began to apply my feif to accom- 
modate my way of Living, and to make Things 
as eafy to me as I could. 

I have 



[yn 



I have already defcribed my Habitation, which 
was a Tent under the Side ot a Rock, furrounded 
with a flrong Pale of Polls and Cables, but I 
might now rather call it a Wall, for I rais'd a kind 
of Wall up againft it of Turfs, about two Foot 
thick on the Outfide, and after fome time, I think 
it was a Year and half, I rais'd Rafters from it 
leaning to the Rock, and thatch'd or cover'd it 
with Boughs of Trees, and fuch Things as I could 
get to keep out the Rain, which I found at fome 
times of the Year very violent. 

I have already obferved how I brought all my 
Goods into this Pale, and into the Cave which I 
had made behind me : But I mufi: obferve too, 
that at hrft, this was a confus'd Heap of Goods, 
which as they lay in no Order, fo they took up 
all my Place; I had no room to turn my felf : So I 
fet my felf to enlarge my Cave and Works farther 
into the Earth ,* for it was loofe fandy Rock, 
which yielded ea/ily to the Labour I bellowed on 
it : And fo when 1 found I was pretty fafe as to 
Beads of Prey, I worked fideways to the Right- 
Hand into the Rock ; and then turning to the 
Right again, worked quite out, and made me a 
Door to come our, on the Outiide of my Pale or 
tification. 

This gave me not only Ef^refs and Regrefs, as 
it were a Back-way to my Tent and to my Score- 
houfe, but gave me room to (low my Goods. 

And now 1 began to apply my felf to make fuch 
neceffary Things as I found I moll: wanted, as par- 
ticularly a Chair and a Table ; for without thefe I 
was not able to enjoy the few Comforts I had in 
the World ; I could not write or eat, or do feveral 
Things with fo much Pleafure without a Table. 

So I went to work ; and here 1 mull needs ob- 
ferve, that as Reafon is the Subflancc and Origi- 
nal 



, [ 79 ] 

hM of the Mathematicks, (o by flaring and fqua- 
ring every Thing by Reafon, and by making the 
mofi: rational Judgment ot' Things, every Man 
may be in time Mafter of every mechanick Art. I 
had never handled Tool in my Life, and yet in 
time by Labour, Application and Contrivance, I 
found at laft that 1 wanted nothing but 1 could 
have made ir, efpecially if I had had Tools ; how- 
ever, I made abundance of Things, even without 
Tools, and fomc v/ith no more Tools than an Adze 
and a Hatchet, which perhaps were never made 
that way before, and that with infinite Labour: 
For Example, if I wanted a Board, I had no other 
Way but to cut down a Tree, fet on an Edge be- 
fore me, and hew it flat on either Side with my 
Ax, till I had brought it to be thin as a Plank, 
and then dubb it fmooth with my Adze. It is true, 
by this Method I could m.ake but one Board out 
of a whole Tree, but this I had no Remedy for 
but Patience, any more than I had fpr the prodi- 
gious deal of Time and Labour which it took me 
up to make a Plank or Board : But my Time or 
Labour was little worth, and fo it was as well em- 
ployed one way as another. 

However, I made me a Table and a Chair, as 
I obferv'd above, in the firfl Place, and this 1 did 
out of the fhort Pieces of Boards that I brought 
on my Raft from the Ship : But when I had 
wrought out fome Boards, as above, I made large 
Shelves of the Breadth of a Foot and a Half one 
over another, all along one Side of my Cave, to 
lay all my Tools, Nails, and Iron-work, and in a 
Word, to feparate every Thing at large in their 
Places, that I might come eafily at them ,• I knocked 
Pieces into the Wall of the Koek to hang my Guns 
and all Things that would hang up. 

So 



[8o] 

So that had my Cave been to be feen, it Jook'ci 
like a general Magazine of all necellary Things, 
and I had every Thing fo ready at my Hand, that 
it was a great Pleafure to me to fee all my Goods 
in fuch Order, and efepicially to iindmy Stock of 
all Ncceflaries fo great. 

And now it was when I began to keep a Jour- 
nal of every Day's Employment, for indeed at firfl 
I was in too much Hurry, and not only Hurry 
as to Labour, but in too much Difcompofure of 
Mind, and my Journal would ha' been full of many 
dull things. For Example, I mud: have faid thus : 
Sept. the 30th, After I got to Shore and hadefcap'd 
drowning, inflead of being thankful to God for 
my Deliverance, having firfl vomited with the 
great Qtiantity of fait Water which was gotten 
into my Scomach, and recovering my felf a little, I 
ran about the Shore, wringing my Hands and beat- 
ing my Head and Face, exclaiming at my Mifery, 
and crying out I was undone, undone, till tir'd 
and faint I was forc'd to lye down on the Ground 
to repofe, but duril: not deep for fear of being 
devour'd. , 

Some Days after this, and after I had been on 
board the Ship, and got all that I could out of 
her, yet I could not forbear getting up to the Top 
of a little Mountain and looking out to Sea in 
hopes of feeing a Ship, then fancy at a vaft Di- 
ftance I fpy'd a Sail, pleafe myfelf with the Hopes 
of it, and then after looking fleadily till I was al- 
mofl: blind, lofe it quite, and fit down and weep 
like a Child, and thus encreafe my Mifery by my 

Folly. 

But having gotten over thefeth "ngs in fome Mea- 
fure, and having fettled my Houfnould-Stuff and 
Habitation, made me a Table and a Chair, and all 
as handfome about me as I could, I begad to keep 

my 



[8i ] 

my Journal of which I fhail here give you the Co- 
py (the' in it will be told aiJ thefe Particulars o- 
ver again) as long as it laRed, for having no more 
Ink i was forced to leave it off. 

T7;^ JOURNAL. 

SEptember 30, 1^59. I poor miferable Rchinfon 
Crufoe, being Shipwrecked, during a dreadful 
Storm in the Offing, came on Shore on this dif- 
mal unfortunate liland, which I call'd the Ifland 
of Defpair, all thz reft of the Ship's Company be- 
ing drown 'd, and my felf almoft dead. 

All the reft of the Day I fpent in abiding my 
felf at the difmal Circumftances I was brought to, 
'viz.y I had neither Food, Houfe, .Cloaths, Wea- 
pon, or Place to fly to, and in Defpair of any Re- 
lief, faw nothing but Death before me, eiiiier that 
I fhould be devoured hy wild Beafts, murther'd by 
Savages, or ftarv'd to Death for want of Food. At 
the Approach of Night, I flept in a Tree for fear 
of wild Creatures, but flept foundly tho' it rain'd 
all Night. 

OBober I. In the Morning I faw to my great 
Surprife the Ship had floated with the high Tide, 
and was driven on Shore again much nearer the 
Kland, which as it was fome Comfort on one hand, 
for feeing her ht upright, and not broken to Pieces, 
I hop'd, ii the Wind abated, I might get on Board, 
and get fome Food and Necelfaries out of her for 
my Relief ; fo on the other hand it renewed my 
Grief at the Lofs of my Comrades, who I ima- 
gined if we had ail ftaid on Board might have 
fav'd the Shin, or atleaft that they would not have 
been all drown'd as they were; and that had the 
Men been fav'd, we might perhaps have built us 
a Boat out ot the Ruins of the Ship, to have car- 

G ried 



[8i] 

tied us to fome other Part of the World. I fpent 
great Part of this Day in perplexing my felf on 
thefe Things ; but at length feeing the Ship almoft 
dry, I went upon the Sand as near as I could, and 
then fwam on Board; this Day alfo continu'd 
raining, tho' with no Wind at all. 

From the ift of OEiober to the 24th. All thefe 
Days entirely fpent in many feveral Voyages to 
get all I could out ot the Ship, which I brought 
on Shore, every Tide of Flood, upon Rafts. Much 
Rain alfo in thefe Days, tho"* with fome Intervals 
of fair Weather : But;, it feems, this was the rainy 
Seafon. 

OB. 20. I overfet my Raft, and all the Goods 
I had got upon it, but being in fhoal Water, and 
the Things being chiefly heavy, I recovered many 
of them when the Tide was out. 

OB. 25. Itrain'dall Night and all Day, with 
fome Gufts of Wind, during which Time the Ship 
broke in Pieces, the Wind blowing a little harder 
than before, and was no more to be feen, except 
the Wreck of her, and that only at low Water, 
I fpent this Day in covering and fecuring the Goods 
which I had (av'd, that the Rain might not fpoil 
them. 

OEh 16. I walk'd about the Shore almofi: all Day 
to find out a Place to fix my Habitation, greatly 
concern 'd to fecurc my f^lt from any Attack in the 
Night, either from wild Beafls or Men. Towards 
"Night I fix'd upon a proper Place under a Rock, 
and mark'd out a Semi-Circle for my Encampment, 
which I refolv'd to flrengthcn with a Work, Wall, 
or Fortification made of double Piles, lin'd with- 
in with Cable, and without with Tuif. 

From the 2(5th to the 30th I work'd very hard 
in carrying all my Goods to my new Habitation 

tho* 



[83] 

tho' fome Part of the Time it rained exceeding 
hard. 

The 3111 in the Morning I went out into the 
Ifland with my Gun to fee for feme Food, and dif- 
cover the Country,* when I kilfd a She-Goat, and 
her Kid followed me Home, which I afterwards 
kiird alfo, becaufc it would not feed. 

November i. I fet up my Tent under a Rock, and 
lay there for the firH: Night, making it as large as 
I could with Stakes driving in to fwing my Ham- 
mock upon. 

Nov. 2. I fet up all my Chefts and Boards, and 
the Pieces of Timber which made my Rafts, and 
with them form'd a Fence round me, a little with- 
in the Place I had mark'd out for my Fortifi- 
cation. 

Nov. 3 . I went out with my Gun, and kill'd two 
Fowls like Ducks, which were very good Food. 
In the Afternoon went to work to make me a 
Table. 

Nov. 4. This Morning I began to order my 
Times of Work, of going out with my Gun, Time 
of Sleep, and Time of Diverfion, viz.. Every 
Morning I walk'd out with my Gun for two ot 
three Hours if it did not rain, then employed my 
felf to work till about eleven a Clock, then eat what 
I had to live on, and from twelve to two I lay 
down to deep, the Weather being excelUve hot, 
and then in the Evening to work again; The 
working Part of this Day and the next were whol* 
ly employed in making my Table, for I was yet 
but a very forry Workman, tho* Time and Necef- 
fity made me a compleac natural Mechanick foon 
after, as I believe it would do any one Q\k. 

Nov. 5. This Day went Abroad with my Gun 

and my Dog, and kill'd a wild Cat, her Skin 

pretty foft, but her Flefti good for nothing : Every 

G 2. Creature 



Creature I IdU'd, I took off the Skins and preferv'^i 
them. Coming back by the Sea-fl]ore, I faw ma- 
ny Sorts of Sea-Fowls, which I did not under- 
ftand ; but was farpriz'd, and almoll frighted with 
two or three Seals,- which, while I was gazing at, 
not well knowing what they were, got into the Sea, 
and efcap'd me for that Time. 

Nov. 6. After my Morning Walk, I went to 
work with my Table again, and finifh'd it, tho' 
not to my Liking \ nor was it long before I learn'd 
to mend it. 

Nov. 7. Now it began to be fettled fair Wea- 
ther. The 7th, 8di, 9th, loth, and Part of the 
1 2th, (for the nth was Sunday^ according to my 
Reckoning) I took wholly up to make me a Chair, 
and with much ado brought it to a tolerable Shape, 
but never to pleafe me ; and even in the making I_ 
puU'd it to Pieces feveral times. Notey I foon neg^ 
led:ed my kQQ^An^ Sunday -, for omitting my Mark 
for them on my Poif, I forgot which was which. 

Nov. 13. This Day it rain'd, which refrefli'd me 
exceeding y, and cool'd the Earth, but it was ac- 
compan)'d with terrible Thunder and Lightning, 
wnich frighted me dreadfully, for fear of my Pow- 
der : As foon ais it was over, I refolv'd to feparate 
my Stock ot Powder into as many little Parcels as 
pofuble, that It might not be in Danger. 

A 61;. 14, 15, 16. Thefe three Days I fpent in 
making little iqiiare Cheiis or Boxes, which might 
hold about a Pound, or two Poimd, at moil:, of 
Powder ; and fo putting the Powder in, I fliowed 
it in Places asdrcure and r;;moLe from one another, 
as poiTible. On one ot-'chefe three Days I kiJl'd a 
larcrc Biid that was good to eat, but I know not 
what to call it. 

JSI'V. 17- This Day I began to dig behind my 
Tent into the Rock, to make room for my farther 

Conve- 



C 85 ] 

Convenlency. Note^ Three Things I wanted ex- 
ceedingly for this Work, vi2^. a Pick-ax, a Shovel, 
and a Wheel-barrow or Basket, fo I defifled from 
my Work, and began to confider how to fupply 
that Want, and make me fome Tools : As for a 
Pick-ax, I made iife of the Iron Crows, which 
were prpper enough, tho' heavy ; but the next 
Thing was a Shovel or Spade ,• this was fo abfo- 
lutely neceflary, that indeed I could do nothing 
effectually without it j but what kind of one to 
make I knew not. 

Nov. 18. The next Day in fearching the Woods," 
I found a Tree of that Wood, or like it, which 
in the Brafds they call tlie Lon T'ree^ for its ex- 
ceeding Hardnefsi of this, with great Labour 
and almoft fpoiling my Ax, I cut a Piece, and 
brought it Home too with Diinculty enough, for 
it was exceeding heavy. 

The excelTive Kardnefs of the Wood, and having 
no other way, made me a long while upon this 
Machine j for I worked it effedually by lirtle and, 
1 ttle into the Form of a Shovel or Spade, the 
Handle exactly (hap'd like ours in England^ only 
that the broad Part having no Iron fhod upon it 
at Bottom, it would not lalt me fo long ; however 
it ferv'd well enough for the Ufes which I had 
Occafion 10 put it to -, but never was a Shovel, 
I believe, made after that Falhion, or fo long a 
making. 

1 was flill deficient, for I wanted a Basket or a 
Whjel-barrow j a Basket I could not make by any 
means, having no fuch Things as Twigs that would 
bend to make Wicker Ware, atieafl none yet found 
out ; and as to a Wheel-barrow, I fancy 'd I could 
make all but the Wheel, but that I had no Notion 
of, neither did I know how to go about it ,* befides 
i had no polTible way to make the Iron Gudgeons 

G 3 for 



[8^] 



for the Spindle or Axis of the Wheel to run in, fo 
I gave it over ; and fo for carrying away the Earth 
which I dug our of the Cave, I made me a Thing 
like a Hodd which the Labourers carry Mortar in 
when they ferve the Bricklayers. 

This was not fo difficult to me as the making 
the Shovel j and yet this, and the Shovel, and the 
Attempt, which 1 made in vain, to make a Wheel- 
barrow, took me up no lefs than four Days, I mean 
always, excepting my Morning Walk witli'my Gun, 
which I feldom fail'd; and very feldom faii'd alfo 
of bringing home fomething fit to eat. 

Nov, 25. My other Work having now flood flill, 
beeaufe oF my making thefe Tools ; when they 
were finifh'd, I went on, and working every Day, 
as my Strength and Time allow 'd, I fpent eigh- 
teen Days entirely in widening ar^d deepning my 
Cave, that it might hold my Goods commodi- 
oufly. 

Note, During ail this Time, I work'd to make 
this Room or Cave fpacious enough to accommo- 
date mc as a Warehoufe or Magazine, a Kitchen, 
a Dining-room, and a Cellar ; as for my Lodging, 
1 kept to the Tent, except thiit fometimes in the 
wet Seafcn of the Year, it rain^'d fo hard that I 
could not keep my feif dry, which caus'd me after- 
wards to cover ail my Place within my Pale with 
long Poles in tiic Form of Ratters, lean.ng againft 
the Rock, and load them with Flags, and large 
Leaves of Trees like a Thatch. 

December 10. I began now to tliink my Cave 
or Vault finifned, when on a hidden (it fcems I 
had made it too large) a great Qiiantity of Earth 
fell down from the Top and one Side, fo much, 
ti.at in ftorr it frighted m.e, and not without Rea- 
fon too, for i^ I had been under it, I had never 
wanted a Grave digger : Upon this Difader I had 

a great 



[87] 

a great deal of Work to do over again ; for I had 
the loofe Earth to carry out, and which was of 
more Importance, I had the Cieh'ngto prop up, fo 
that I might be (ure no more would come down. 

Dec. 1 1. This Day I went to work with it accord- 
ingly, and got two Shoars or Pofts pitch^'d upright 
to the Top, with two Pieces of Boards a-crofs over 
each Pofl ; this I finifliM the next Day ,• and fetting 
more Polls up with Boards, in about a Week more 
I had the Roof fecur'd ; and the Pofts (landing in 
Rows, ferv'd me for Partitions to part of my Houfe. 

Dec. I J. From this Day to the Twentieth I 
plac'd Shelves, and knocked up Nails on the Pofts 
to hang every Thing up that could be hung up, 
and now I began to be in fome Order within 
Doors. 

Dec. 20. Now I carry 'd every Thing into the 
Cave, and began to furnifh my Houfe and fet up 
fome Pieces of Boards, like a Dreffer, to order my 
Vi(5i:uals upon, but Boards began to be very fcarce 
with me j alfo 1 made me another Table. 

Dec. 24. Much Rain all Night and all Day ; no 
ftirring out. 

Dec. 25. Rain all Day. 

Dec. 26. No Rain, and the Earth much cooler 
than before, and pleafanter. 

Dec. 27. KiiJ'd a young Goat, andlam'd ano- 
ther fo that I catch'd it, and led it Home in a 
String ; when I had it Home, I bound and fplin- 
ter'd up its Leg which was broke. N. B. I 
took fuch care of it, that it liv'd, and the Leg 
grew well and as ftrong as ever ; but by nurfing 
It fo long it grew tame, and fed upon the little 
Green at my Door, and would not go away : 
This was the firft Time that I entertain'd a 
Thought of breeding up fome tame Creatures, 
G 4 that 



[88 ] 

that I miglit have Food when my Powder and 
Sho was ail fpent. 

Dec. 28, 2p, 30. Great Heats and no Breeze ; (o 
that there was no flirring abroad, except in the E- 
ven]n<:^ for Food ; this Time I fpent m putting ail 
my Tnings in Order within Dcors. 

January i. Very hot ftiil, but I went abroad ear- 
ly and late with my Gun, and lay ftill in the middle 
of the Day ; this Evening going farther into the 
Valleys, which lay towards the Centero!: the liland, 
I fouiid there was plenty of Goats, tho^ exceeding 
fhy and hard to come at, however IrefolvM to try 
if I couid not bring my Dogto hunt them down. 

Jjn.2, Accordingly, the next Day, I went out 
wich my Dog, and fat him upon the Goats ; but I 
was miflaken, for they all fac'd about upon the 
Dog, and he knew his Danger too well, for he 
would not come near them. 

Jan. 3. 1 began my Fence or Wall ; which, being 
ftili jealous of my being attacked by fome Body, I 
refolv'd to make very thick and ftrong. 

N. B. T'/jIs TVaU hehig defcrib'd hefire, I 
purpcfely omit i^hat ix^asfaid in theJoiiY' 
nal; it is fiifficient to cbferve, that J was 
no lefs 'Time than from the id 0/ January 
to the i^th (/"April, irorking^finijhing and 
ferjecilng this Wally tho it vjas no more 
than about 24 Turds in Lengthy being a half 
Circle j) om cne Place in the Reck to another 
Place about eight Yards fiom ity the Do 
oj the Cave being in the Center behind it. 



Wr 



All this Time I work'd very hard, the Rains 
hindering me many Days, nay fomctimes Weeks 
together i but I thought I fnonld never be perfed:- 
ly iec.re ail this Wall wa-^ fi.ifh'd : and it is 

fcarcc 



[89] 



fcatce credible what inexpreflible Labour every 
Thing was done with, efpecially the bringing Piles 
out of the Woods, and driving them into the 
Ground -, for I made them much bigger than I 
need to have done. 

When this Wall was finifh'd, and the Out-fide 
double fenced with a Turf- Wall rais'd up clofe to 
it, I perfuaded my felf, that if any People were to 
come on Shore there, they would not perceive any 
Thing like a Habitation; and it was very well I 
did fo, as may be obferv'd hereafter upon a very- 
remarkable Occafion. 

■ During this Time, I made my Rounds in the 
Woods for Game every Day when the Rain ad- 
mitted me, and made frequent Difcoveries in thefe 
Walks of fomething or other to my Advantage ; 
particularly I found a kind of wild Pidgeons, who 
built not as Wood Pidgeons in a Tree, but rather 
as Houfe Pidgeons, in the Holes of the Rocks ; 
and taking fome young ones, I endeavour'd to 
breed them up tame, and did fo ,• but when they 
grew older, they flew all away, which perhaps 
was at firfl for want of feeding them, for I had 
nothing to givQ them ; however I frequently found 
their Nefls, and got their young ones, which was 
very good Meat. 

And now in the managing my Houfhold Affairs," 
I found my felf wanting m many Things, which I 
thought at firfl; it was impofllble for me to make, 
as indeed as to fome of them it was; for Inflame^ 
I could never make a Cask to be hoop'd, I had a 
fmall Runlet or two, 05 1 elfew'd before, but I 
could never arrive to the Capacity of making one 
by them, tho' I fpent many Weeks about it ; I 
could neither put in the Heads, or joint the Staves 
fo true to one another, as to make them hold Wa- 
ter, fo I gave that alfo over. 

In 



[90] 

In the next Place, I was at a great lofs for Can- 
dle ; fo that as foon as ever it was dark, which was 
generally by Seven a Clock, I was obligM to go to 
Bed: I remember the Lump of Bees-wax with 
which I made Candles in my Ajrkan Adventure, 
buti had none of that now,- the only Remedy I 
had, was, tkat when I had kill'd a Goat, I fav'd 
the Tallow, and with a little Difh made of Clay, 
which I bak'd in the San, to which I added a Wick 
of fome Oakum, and 1 made me a Lamp , and this 
gave me Light, tho' not a clear fteady Light like 
a Candle; in the middle of all my Labours it hap- 
pened, that rummaging my Things, I found a little 
Bag, which, as I hinted before, had beenfill'd with 
Corn for the feeding of Poultry, not for this Vo- 
yage, but before, as I fuppofe, when the Ship 
came from Lisbon; what little Remainder of Corn 
had been in the Bag, was all devoured with the 
Rats, and I faw nothing in the Bag but Husks and 
Buft ; and being willing to have the Bag for fome 
other Ufe, I think it was to put Powder in, when 
I divided it for fear of the Lightning, or fome fuch 
life, I fhook the Husks of Corn out of it on one 
Side of my Fortification under the Rock. 

It was alittle before the great Rains, juft now 
mentioned that I threw this Stuff away, taking no 
"Notice of any Thing, and notfo much as remem- 
bring that I had thrown any Thing there ; when 
about a Month after, or thereabout, I faw fome 
lew Stalks of fomething Green lliooting out of the 
Ground, which I fancy'd might be fome Plant I 
had not feen, but I was furpriz'd and perfectly 
aftonifh'd, when after a little longer time I faw 
about ten or twelve Ears come out, which were 
perfed green Barley of the fame Kind as our Eu- 
mpeany nay, as our Engli^i Barley. 

It 



[91] 

It IS impoflible to exprefs the Aflonifhrnent and 
Conftifion of my Thoughts on this Occafion ; I 
had hitherto aded upon no religious Foundation at 
all ,* indeed I had very few Notions of Religion in 
my Head, or had entertained any Senfe of any 
Thing that had befallen me, otherwife than as a 
Chance, or, as we lightly fay, what pleafes God ; 
without fo much as enquiring into the End of Pro- 
vidence in thefe Things, or his Order in gover- 
ning Events in the World ; But alter I faw Barley 
grow their, in a Climate which I knew was not 
proper for Corn, and efpecially that I knew not 
how it came there, it flartled me flrangeJy, and I 
began to fuggeil:, that God had miraculoully caused 
this Grain to grow without any help of Seed 
fown, and that it was fo dire&d purely for my 
Suflenance on that wild miferable Place. 

This touch'd my Heart a little, and brought 
Tears out of my Eyes, and I began to blefs my 
felf, that fuch a Prodigy of Nature fliould happen 
upon my Account ; and this was the more ftrange 
tome, becaufe I faw near it (till all along by the 
Side of the Rock, fome other draggling Stalks, 
which prov'd to be Stalks of Rice, and which I 
knew, becaufe I had feen it grow in Africa^ when 
I wasafhore there. 

1 not only thought thefe the pure Produdions 
of Providence for my Support, but not doubting, 
but that there was more in the Place ; I went all 
over that Part of the Ifland, where I had been 
before, peering in every Corner, and under every 
Rock, to fee for more of it, but I could not find 
any ,* at laft it occur'd to my Thoughts, that I had 
Ihook a Bag of Chickens Meat out in that Place, 
and then the Wonder began to ceafe ; and I muft 
confefs, my religious Thankfulnefs to God's Pro- 
vidence began to abate too upon the difcove- 

ring 



^ [91] 

ring that all this was nothing but what was com- 
mon ; the' I ought to have been as tliankFul for fo 
ftrange and unforefeen Providence, as if it had 
been miraculous; for it was really the Work of 
Providence as to me, that fhould order or appoint, 
that lo or 12 Grains of Corn fhould remain un- 
fpoil'd (when the Rats had deflroy'd all the reft) 
as if it had been droptfrom Heaven : As a^fo that I 
fhould throwit out in that particular Place where 
it being in the Shade of a high Ropk, it fprang up 
imrtiediately ; whereas if I had thrown it any 
where elfeat that Time, ithad been burnt up and 
deftroy'd. 

I carefully fav'd the Ears of this Corn, you may be 
fure in their Seafon) which was about the End of 
'June, and laying up every Corn, I refolv'd to fow 
them all again, hoping in Time to have fome 
Quantity fufficient to fupply me with Bread ; but 
it was not till the 4th Year that I could allow my 
felf theleaft Grain of this Corn to eat, and even 
then but fparinglyv.as I (hall fay afterwards in its 
Order; for I lot all that I fow'd the firft Seafon, 
by not obfcrving the proper Time fori fow'd it 
jufl before the dry Seafon, fo that it never came 
up at all, at leaft, not as it would have done : Of 
which in its Place. 

Be(ides this Bar.'ey, there was, as above 20 or 
30 Stalks of Rice, which I preferv'd with the fame 
Care, and whofe Ufe was of the famx Kind, or to 
the Amie Pi-rocfe, (viz..) to make me Bread, or 
rather Food; for I found Ways to cook it up with- 
out baking, tho' I did that alfo after fome Time. 
But to reiurn to m.y Journal. 

I work'd ersceiJive hard thefe three or four 
Months to pet my Wall done; and thei4rhof 
Jprilldofcd it up, contriving to go into it, not 
by a Door, but over the Wall by a Ladder, that 

there 



[ 93 ] 

there might be no Sign in the Oiit-fide of my H^-* 
birarion. 

April 1 6. 1 iinifli'd the Ladder, fo I went up with 
the Ladder to the Top, and then puU'd it up after 
nie, and let it down on the Lifide : This was a 
compleat Enclofure to me,- for within I had room 
enough, and nothing could come at me from with- 
out, unlefs it could hrfl: mount my Wall. 

The very next Day after this vV'ail wasfinifhed, 
I had almoft had all my Labour overthrown at 
once, and myfelf kilfd ; the Cafe was thus: As I 
was bufy in the Inlide of it, behind my Tent, juft in 
the Entrance into my Cave, I was terribly highted 
with a mojfl; dreadful furprizing Thing indeed ; 
for all on a fudden I found the Earth come crum- 
bling down from the Roof of my Cave, and from 
the Edge of the Hill over my Head, and two of 
the Pofts I had fet up in the Cave, crack'd in a 
frightful manner : I was heartily feared, but thought 
nothing of what was really the Caufe, only think- 
ing that the Top of my Cave was falling in, asfome 
of it had done before -, and for fear I Ihould be bu- 
ry 'd in it, I ran forv/ard to my Ladder, and noc 
thinking my felffafe there neither, I got over my 
Wall for fear of the Pieces of the Hill which I ex- 
pected might roll down upon mc : I was no fooner 
ilept down upon the firm Ground, but I plainly 
faw it was a terrible Earthquake, for the Ground 
I ftood on fliook three times at about eight Mi- 
nutes diflance, wi'th three fuch Shocks, as would 
have ovenurn'd the ifrongefl Building that could 
be fuppos'd to have flood on the Earth; and a 
great Piece of the Top of a Rock, wiiich ftood 
^bout half a Mile from me next the Sea, fell down 
with fuch a terrible Noife, as I never heard in all. 
pyLife: 1 perceiv'd alfo, the very Sea was put 
into violent Morion by it ; and I believe the 

♦ Shock 



[ 94 ] 

Shocks were flronger under the Water than on the 
inand. 

1 was fo amaz'd with the Thing it felf, having 
never felt the like, or difcourfed with any one that 
had, that I was like one dead or ftupify'd ; and the 
Motion of the Earth made my Stomach fick, like 
one that was tofs'd at Sea j but the Noile of tiie 
falling of the Rock awak'd nie^, as it were, and rou- 
zing me from the ftupified Condition I was in, fill'd 
me with Horror, and I thought of nothing then 
but the Hill falling upon my Tent, and all my 
Houlhold Goods, and burying all at once ; and 
this funk my very Soul within me a fecond time. 

After the third Shock was over, and I felt no 
more for fome time, I began to take Courage, and 
yet I had not Heart enough to get over my Wall a- 
gain, for fear of being buried alive, but fat ftill 
upon the Ground, greatly cafi: down and difconfo- 
late, not knowing what to do : All this while I had 
not the lead: ferious religious Thought, nothing 
but the common. Lord ha Mercy upon me j and 
when it was over, that went away too. 

While I fat thus, I found the Air over-caft, and 
grew cloudy, as if it would rain; fo that in lefs 
than half an Hour it blew a moft dreadful Hurri- 
cane : The Sea was all on a fudden covered over 
with Foam and Froth, the Shore was covered with 
the Breach of the Water, the Trees were torn up 
by the Roots, and a terrible Storm it was ; and 
this held about three Hours, and then began to 
abate, and in two Hours more it was calm, and 
began to rain very hard. 

All this while I fat upon the Ground very much 
terrify *d and dejeded, when on a fudden it cams 
into my Thoughts, that thefe Winds and Rain being 
the Confequence of the Earthquake, the Earthquake 

itfelf 



C 95 ] 

itfelf was fpent and over, and I might venture into 
ray Gave again : With this Thought my Spirits 
began to revive, and the Rain alfo helping to per- 
fuade me, I went in and fat down in my Tent, 
but the Rain was (o violent, that my Tent was 
ready to be beaten down with it ; and I was forc'd 
to 'go into my Cave, tho' very much afraid and un- 
eafy for fear it fhould fall on my Head. 

This violent Rain forc'd me to a new Work, viz,^ 
to cut a Hole thro' my new Fortification like a 
Sink to let Water go out, which would elfe have 
drown'd my Cave. After I had been in my Cave 
fome time, and found fiill no more Shocks of the 
Earthquake follow, I. began to be more composed; 
and now to fupport my Spirits, which indeed want- 
ed it very much, I went to my little Store, and 
took a fmall Sup of Rum, which however I did 
then and always very fparingly, knowing I could 
have no more when that was gone. 

It continu'd raining all that Night, and great 
Part of the next Day, fo that I could not fiir 
abroad, but my Mind being more composed, J. be- 
gan to think of what I had beft do, concluding, 
that if the Ifland was fubjed tothefe Earthquakes, 
there would be no living for me in a Cave, but i 
muft confider of building me fome little Hut in an 
open Place, which I might furround with a Wallas 
1 had done here, and fo make my felf fecure from 
wild Beafts or Men : But concluded, if I flaid 
where I was, I fliould certainly, one time or other, 
be bury 'd alive. 

With thefe Thoughts I refolv'd to remove my 
Tent from the Place where it flood, which was 
juft under the hanging Precipice of the Hill, and 
which, if it fhould be fhaken again, would certain- 
ly fall upon my Tent : And I fpent the two next 

Days 



Days, being the i5)th and 20th o( April, in con- 
triving where and how to remove my Habitation. 

The Fear oF being fwallow'd up alive, made me 
that I never flept in quiet j and yet the Apprehen- 
lion, of lying abroad without any Fence, was al- 
moft equal to it : But ftill when I look'd about, 
and faw how every thing was put in Order, how 
pleafantly conceai'd I was, and how fafe from 
Danger, it made me very loth to remove. 

In the mean time it occuru'd to me, that it would 
require a vaft deal of Time for me to do this, and 
that I mu(t be contented to run the Venture where 
I was, 'till I had form'd a Camp for my felf, and 
had fecur'd it fo as to remove to it : So with this 
Refolution I composed myfelf for a Time, and re- 
folv'd that I would go to work with all Speed to 
build me a Wall with Piles and Cables, &c. in a 
Circle as before, and fet my Tent up in it when it 
was finifh'd, but that I would venture to flay where 
I was 'till it was finifli'd and fit to remove to. This 
was the 21 ft. 

April 22. The next Morning I began to confider 
of Means to put this Refolve m Execution, but I 
was at a great Lofs about my Tools ; I had three 
lar<^e Axes and abundance of Hatchets, (for we 
carry 'd the Hatchets for Traflick with the Indians) 
but with much chopping and cutting knotty hard 
Wood, they were all tull of Notches and dull, 
and tho' I hada Grindftone, I could not turn it and 
grind my Tools too; this cofl me as much Thought 
as a Statefman would have bellowed upon a grand 
Point of Politicks, or a Judge upon the Life and 
Death of a Man. At length I contrived a Wheel 
with a String, to turn it with my Foot, that I 
might have both my Hands at Liberty : Note, 1 had 
never {c^w any fuch thing in England^ or at leafl 
liot to take Notice how it was done, thd^ fince I 

have 



[97] 



have obferv'd it is very common there ; belides 
tiiat, my Grindflone was very large and heavy 
This Machine coll me a tuli Weeks Work to bring 
it to Perfed:on. 

April 28, 29. Thefe two whole Days I took up 
in grinding my Tools, my Machine for turning 
my Grindltone performing very well. 

April 30. Having perceived my Bread had been 
low a great while, now I took a Survey of it, 
and reduc'd my felf to one Bisket-cake a Day, 
which made my Heart very heavy 

May I. In the Morning looking towards the 
Sea-iide, the Tide being low, I faw fomethinglye 
on the Shore bigger than ordinary, and it look'd 
like a Cask ; when I came to it, I found a fmall 
Barrel, and two or three Pieces of the Wreck of 
the Ship, which were driven on Shore by the late 
Hurricane, and looking towards the Wreck itfelf, 
I thought it feem'd to lye higher out of the Water 
than It us'd to do ; I examined the Barrel which 
was driven on Shore, and foon found it was a 
Barrel of Gunpowder, but it had taken Water, 
and the Powder was cak'd as hard as a Stone, how- 
ever I roU'd it farther on Shore for the prefent, and 
went on upon the Sands as near as I could to the 
Wreck of the Ship to look for more. 

When I came down to the Ship I found itflrange- 
ly removed, The Forc-cafcie which lay before bu- 
ry \i in Sand, was heavM up at leafl: fix Foot, and 
the Stern which was broke to Pieces and parted 
from the reft by the Force of the Sea foon after I 
had left rummaging her, wastofs'd, as it were, up, 
and cait on one Side, and the Sand was thrown 
fo high on that S;de next her Stern, that whereas 
there was a great Place of Water before, fo that I 
could not come within a Qi.iarter of a Mile of the 
Wreck without fvvdmming, I could now walk 

H quite 



[98] 

quite up to her when the Tide was out ; t was fuH 
priz'd with this acfirft, but Toon concluded it mull 
be done by the Earthquake, and as by this Violence 
the Ship was more broken open than formerly, fo 
many Things came daily on Shore, which the Sea 
had loofen'd, and which the Winds and Water rol- 
led by Degrees to the Land. 

This wholly diverted my Thoughts from the 
Defign of removing my Habitation j and I bufied 
myfeif- mightily that Day efpecially, in fearching 
whether I ecu d make any Way into the Ship, but I 
found nothing was to be expedted oi that Kind, for 
that all the Infide of: the Ship was choack'd up 
with Sand : However, as I had learnMnot todefpair 
of any Thing, I refolv'd to pull every Thing to 
Pieces that I could of the Ship, concluding, that 
everyThing 1 could get from her would be of fome 
Ufe or other to me. 

May 3. I began with my Saw, and cut a Piece 
of a Beam thro', which I thought held fome of the 
upper Part or Qiiarter-Dcck together, and when 
I had cut it thro', I clear 'd away the Sand as well 
as I could from the Side which lay highefti but 
the Tide coming in, I was oblig'd to giv^e over for 
that Time. 

iMciy 4. 1 went a fifhingj but caught not one pifh 
that I durft eat of, till I was weary of my Sport, 
when jufl: going to leave oft I caught a young 
DolphiiL I had made me a long Line of fome 
Rope Yarn, but I had no Hooks, yet I frequently 
caugi:it Fifh enough, as much as 1 carM to eat j 
all which I dry'd in the Sun, 2nd eat them dry* 

May 5. Work'd on the Wreck, cut another 
Beam afunder, and brought three great Fir Planks 
off torn the Decks, which I ty'd torether, and 
made fwim on Siiore when the Tide of Flood came 
on. 

May 



[99] 



May 6. Work'cl on the Wreck, got feveral Iron 
Bolts out of her, and other Pieces oflron Work, 
work'd very hard, and came Home very much ryr^d, 
and had Thoughts oFgiving it over. 

May 7. Went to the Wreck again, but with an 
Intent not to work, but found the Weight of the 
Wreck had broke itfelf down, the Beams being cut, 
that feveral Pieces of the Ship fecm'd to lie loofe, 
and the In-fide of the Hold lay fo open, that I 
could fee into it, but almoft full of Water and Sand* 
May 8. Went to the Wreck and carry 'd an Iron 
Crow to wrench up the Deck, which lay now 
quite clear of the Water or Sand j I wrenched open 
two Planks, and brought them on Shore alfo with 
the Tide: I left the Iron Crow in the Wreck for 
next Day. 

May p. Went to the Wreck, and with the Crovy- 
made Way into the Body of the Wreck, and fek 
feveral Casks, and loofenM them with the Crow^ 
but could not break them up ,• I felt alfo the Roil 
Qi Englijh Lead, and could ftir it, but it was too 
heavy to remove. 

May 10, II, 12, 13, 14. Went every Day to 
the Wreck, and got a great deal of Pieces of Tim- 
ber, and Boards, or Plank, and 2 or 300 Weight 
of Iron. 

May 15. I carry'd two Hatchets to try if I 
could not cut a Piece off of the Roll of Lead, by- 
placing the Edge of one Hatchet, and driving it 
with the other j but as it lay about a Foot and a 
half in the Water, I could not make any Blow to 
drive the Hatchet. 

May 16. It had blow'd hard in the Night, and 
the Wreck appeared more broken by the Force of 
the Water ; but I ftay'd fo long in the Woods to get 
Pidgeons for Food, that the Tide prevented m<^ 
going to the Wreck that Day. 

H 2 May 



r 100 ] 

May 17. Ifaw fome Pj'eces oftheWreck blown on 
Shore, at^ a great Diftancc, two Miles oft' me, 
but refolv'd to fee what tliey were, and l-bund it 
was a Piece of the Head, but too heavy for me to 
bring away. 

May 24. Every Day to this Day I work'd on 
the Wreck, and wirh hard Labour I Joofen'd fome 
Things fo much with the Crow, that the firft 
blowing Tide fcverai Casks floated out, and two 
of the SeamcnsChefls ; but the Wind blowing from 
the Shore, nothing came to Land that Day, but 
Pieces of- Timber, and a Hogihead which had fome 
BrarLtl Pork in it, but the Sak- water and the Sand 
had fpoil'd it. 

I continu'd this Work every Day to the 15 th of 
^nne, except the Time neceilary to get Food, 
which I a'ways appointed, during this Part of my 
Empicyment, to be when the Tide was up, that I 
mighL be ready when it wasebb'd cut, and by this 
Time I had gotten Timber, and Plank, and Iron- 
Work enough, to iiave builded a good Boat, if I 
had known how; and a!fo, I got at feveral Times, 
and infevfral Pieces, near ico Weight of the Sheet- 
Lead. 

^me 16. Going down to the Sea-fide, I found 
a large Tortoifeor Turtle j this was thefirfl I had 
feen, which it feems w.Lsonlymy Misfortune, not 
any Defc6t or" the Place, or Scarcity ; for had I hap- 
pen'd to be on the other Side of the Ifland, I 
might have had Hundreds of them evey Day, as 
1 found afterwards; but prehaps had paid de .r 
enough tor them. 

June I J. 1 fpent in cooking the Turtle; I 
found in hertiireefcore Eggs ; and her Flefn was to 
me at that Time the moft favoury and pleafant 
that ever 1 tailed in my Liii:^ having had no Fiefli, 

but 



[ loi ] 

but of Goats and Fowls, (ince I. landed in this 
horrid Place. 

June 18, Rain'd all Day, and I flay'd within. 
I thought at this Time the Rain feit cold, and I 
was fomething chilly, which I knew was not ufual 
■in that Latitude. 

June ip. Very ill, and fhivering, as if the Wea- 
ther had been cold. 

June 20. No Rell all Night, violent Pains in 
my Head, and feaverifh. 

June 21. Very i\U frighted almoll to Death 
with the Apprehcnfions of my fad Condition, to 
be fick, and no Help : PrayM to GOD for the 
firfl Time fince the Storm of Hnlly but fcarce 
knew what I faid, or why i my Thoughts being 
all confufed. 

June 22. k little better, but urtder dreadful 
A] prehenfions of Sicknefs. 

June 23. Very bad again, cold and fhivering", 
and then a violent Head-ach. 
June 24. Much better. 

June 25. An A::ue very violent,- the Fit held 
me feven Hours, cold Fit and hot, with faint 
Sweats after it. 

June 2(5. Better i and having no Vidiials to eat, 
took my Gun, but found my felf very weak; 
however I kilfd a She-Goat, and with much Dif- 
ficulty got it Home, and broird fome of it, and 
eat ; I would fain have flew'd it, and made fome 
Broath, but had no Pot. 

June 27> The Ague again fo violent, that I 
lay a-Bed all D^y, and neither eat or drank. I 
was ready to perilh for Tiiirft, but fo weak, I had 
not Strength to fland up, or to get my felf any 
Water to drink : Pray'd to God again, but was 
light-headed, and when I was not, I was fo igiio- 
rant, that I knew not what to fay j only I lay and 
H 3 cryU 



[ 101 ] 

cry'd, Lord look uponmey Lord fity me, Lord have 
M(^yc) upon me : I fuppofe I did nothing eUe for two 
or three Hours, till the Fit wearing oft I fell afleep, 
and did not wake till far in the Night ; when I 
wak'd, 1 Found my felf much reFreCi'd, but weak, 
and exceeding thlrfly : However, as I had no Wa- 
ter in my whole Habitation, 1 was forc'd to lie till 
Morning, and went to fleep again : In this fecond 
Sleep, 1 had this terrible Dream. 

I thought, that I was fitting on the Ground on 
the Out-lide of my Wall, where 1 fat when the 
Storm blew after the Earthquake, and that 1 faw 
a Man defcend from a great black Cloud, in a 
bright Flame of Fire, and light upon the Ground: 
He was all over as bright as a Flame, fo that I could 
bv!t juft bear to look towards him ; his Counte- 
nance was moftinexprelTibly dreadful, impolTible 
for Words to dele ri be ; when he fiepp'd upon the 
Ground with his Feet, I thought the Earth trem- 
bled, juft as it had done before m the Earthquake, 
and all the Air look'd, to my Apprehenlion, as if 
it had been fill'd with Flafhes of Fire, 

He was no fooner landed upon the Earth, but 
he moved forward towards me, with a long Spear 
Or Weapon in his Hand, to kill mei and when he 
Came to a riling Ground, at fome Diftance, he 
f ,okc to me, or I heard a Voice fo terrible, that 
it is impolTibie to cxprefs the Terror of it ; all that 
1 can fay, I underllood, w^as this. Seeing all theje 
'Thiiigs have not brct^gbt thee to Repentance^ nov: thoa 
foah die : At which 'Words, 1 thought he lifted up 
the Spear that that was in his Hand to kill me. 

No one, that fhall ever read this Account, wiU 
expert thatl fhould be able to dcfcribe the Horrors. 
of my Soul at this terrible Vilion, I mean, thate- 
ven while it was a Dream, I even dreamed of thoie 
Honors i ncr is it any more poffibie to defcribe 

■ ... the 



[ ^o^ ] 

the ImprefHon that remafn'd upon my Mind wlien 
I awak'd and found it was but a Dream. 

I had alas! no divine Knowledge ; what I had re- 
ceived by the good Inflrudion oFmy Father was then 
worn out by an uninterrupted Series, for 8 Years, of 
Seafaring Wickedneis, and a conftant Converfation 
with nothing but fuch as were Jike myfeli^, wicked 
and prophane to the lafl Degree : I do not remember 
that I had in all that Time one Thought that fo 
much as tended either to looking upwards toward 
God, or inwards towards a Refiedion upon my 
own Ways : But a cerrain Stupidity of Soul, with- 
out Deiire of Good, or Confcience of Evil, had 
entirely overwhelmed me, and I was all that themoft 
hardned, unthinking, wicked Creature among our 
common Sailors, can be fuppofed to be, not having 
the leafl Senfe, either of the Fear of God in Danger, 
or of Thankfulnefs to God in Deliverances. 

In the relating what is already paft of my Story, 
this will be the more eafily believ'd, when I (hall 
add, that thro' all the Variety of Miferies that 
had to this Day befallen mc, 1 never had fo much 
as one Thought of it being the Hand of God, oc 
that it was a juil Punifhment for my Sin ; my rer 
bellious Behaviour againft my Father, or my pre- 
fent Sins which were great i or fo much as a Pu- 
nifnmentfor the general Courfe of my wicked Life. 
When I was on the defperate Expedition onthedc- 
fart Shores or Africa, I never had fo much as one 
Thought of what would become of me ; or one 
Wi(h to God to direc!t me whether I fiiould go, or 
to keep me from the Danger which apparently fur- 
rounded me, as well f:rom voracious Creatures as 
cruel Savages : But I was meerly thoughtlefs of a 
God, or a Providence ^ adted like a meet Brute 
from the Principles of Nature, and by the Didates 
of common Senfe only, and indeed hardly that. 

H 4 When 



[ 104 1 

When I was deliver'd and taken i^p at Sea by the 
Vonugal Captain, well iis'd, ai.d dealt jullly and 
honourably with, as well as charitably, 1 had not 
the leaf]: Thankiiilnefs on my Thoughts: When 
again I was fhipwrcck'd, ruin'd, and in Danger of 
drowning on 'diis IHatid, I was as far from Re- 
morfe, or looking on ic as a Judgment i 1 only faid 
to my feU often, that I was an unioYtimate Dog, and 
born to be always miferable. 

It is true, when I got on Shore firfl here, and 
found all my Ship's Crew drown'd, and my felf 
fpar'd, I was furpriz'd with a kind of Exrafy,and 
fome Tranfports of Soul, which, had the Grace of 
God alTifled, might have come up to true Thank- 
fulnefs ; but it ended where it begun, in a meer 
common Flight of Joy, or as I may fay, being glad I 
11:05 alrje, without the leil Reflcdion upon the 
diflingu.'fliing Goodnefs of tlie Hand which had 
prefer v'd me, and hsd fingled me out to be pre- 
fcrv'd, w^-ien all the reft were deftroy'd ; or an En- 
quiry why Providence had been thus merciful to 
me ; eve.) juft tJK (amc common Sort of Joy which 
Seamen generally have after they are got ink afliore 
from a Shipwreck, which they drown ail in the next 
Bowi of Punch, and forget almoft as foon as it is 
over, and all the reft of my Life v/as like it. 

Even when I w;is afterwards, on due Confide- 
ration, madefenlible ol: my Condition, howl was 
caft on this dreadful PLce, out of the Reach of Jm- 
man Kind, out of all Hope of Relief, or Profpe(5): 
of Redemption, as foon as 1 faw but a Profped of 
livin'"^, and that I (liould not ftarve and pcrifli for 
Elun^er, all the Senle o( my AfRiction wore ol^, 
audi begun to be very eafy, apply 'd my felf to the 
Works proper for my Freiervation and Supply, and 
was far enough from beii^g afllided at my Con- 
dition, as a J.idgment from Heaven, or as the 

Hand 



[ 105 ] . 

Hand of God againft me ; thefe were Thoughts 
which very feldom ertterM into my Head. 

The growing up ot" the Corn, as is hinted in my 
Journal, had at firll fome little Influence upon me, 
and began to affed: me with Serioufnefs, as long as 
1 thought it had iomething miraculous in it ; but 
as foon as ever that Part of the Thought was re- 
moved, all the Impreilion which was rais^'d from it, 
wore off alfo, as I have noted already. 

Even the Earthquake, tho"* nothing could be 
more terrible in its Nature, or more immediately 
directing to the invilible Power which alone di- 
rects fuch Things, yet no fooner was the firft Fright 
over, but the Impreffion it had made went off alfo.. 
.1 had no more Senfe of God or his Judgments, 
much Icfs of the prefent AfRidion of my Circum-r 
fiances being from his Hand, than if 1 had been in 
the moll; profperous Condition of Life. 

But now when I began to be (ick, and a Icifure- 
ly View of the Miferies oF Death came to place It- 
felf before me ; when my Spirits began to link un- 
der the Burthen of aflrong Diflemper, and Natu^re 
was exhaufted with the Violence of the Feaver • 
Comcience that had ficpt folong, begun to awake 
and 1 began to reproach myfelf with my pail: Life 
in which I had fo evidently, by uncommon vVicked- 
nefs, provok'd the Juftice of God to lay me under 
uncommon Strokes, and to deal with mic in fo vin- 
dictive a Manner. 

Thefe Rcfledions opprefs'd me for thefecond or 
third Day of my Dillemper, and in the Violence 
as well of the Feaver, as of the dreadful Reproaches 
of my Confcience, extorted fome Words from mc, 
like praying to God, tho' I cannot fay they were 
cither a Prayer attended with Defires or with 
Hopes; it was rather the Voice of meer Fright 
a.:d D.ftrefs ; my Thoughts were confusU the 

Con- 



[ 106 ] 

Convldions great upon my Mind, and the Hor- 
ror of dying ixi fuch a miferable Condition raised 
Vapours inro iny Head with the meer Apprehen- 
fions'y and in thefe Hurries of my Soul:, I know 
not what my Tongue might exprefs : but it was ra- 
ther Exclamation, fuch as. Lord I what a miferable 
Creature am I ? If I fliould be Tick, I fliall certain- 
ly die for want of Help, and what will become of 
me ! Then the Tears burft out of my Eyes, and I 
could fay no more for a good while. 

In this Interval, the good Advice of my Father 
came to my Mind, and prefently his Predi6;ion 
which 1 mention^ at the Beginning of this Story, 
viz- T^hat if I did take this f col ijh Stepy God would not 
llefs me, and I zcou/d have Lei fur e hereafter to refieEl 
iip&n having neglecled his Cmnjel, when there might he 
'none to a[fift in my Recovery. Now, faid I aloud, 
My dear Father's Words are come to pafs : God's 
Jiiiiice has overtaken me, and I have none to help 
or hear me : I rejcded the Voice of Providence, 
which had mercifully put me in a Poflure or Sta- 
tion of Life, wherein I might have been happy 
and eafy ; but I would neither fee it myfelf, or learn 
to know the BlefTing of it from my Parents j I left 
them to mourn over my Folly, and now I am left 
to monrn under the Confequences of it : I refus'd 
their Help and AiUfunce whowou'd have lifted me 
into the World, and would have made every thing 
cafy to me, and now I have Difficulties to ftrug- 
gle with, too great tor even Nature itfeli: to fup- 
port, and no Affiftance, no Help, no Comfort, no 
Advice ; then I cry 'd out, Lord he my Help^ for I am 
■id great D'ljirefs, 

This was the firR Prayer, if I may call it f0;» 
that i had made tor many Years: But I return to 
my journal. 

^une 



[ 107 ] 

June 28. Having been fomewhat refrefh'd with 
the Sleep I had had, and the Fit being entirely 
off, I got up ,* and tho' the Fright and Terror of 
my Dream was very great, yet I confider'd, that 
the Fit of the Ague v^ould return again the next 
Day, and now was my Time to get fomething to 
refreili and fupport myfelf when I fliould be ill ; 
and the firft thing I did, I fill'd a large fquarc 
Cafe Bottle with Water, and fct it upon my Table, 
in reach of my Bed, and to take off the Chill 
or agLiifh Difpoiition of the Water, I put 
about a Quarter of a Pint of Rum into it, 
and mix'd them together ; then I got me a Piece 
of the Goat's Flefh,and broil'd it on the Coals, but 
could eat very little ; I walkM about, but was very 
weak, and withal very fad and heavy-hearted in 
the Scnfe of my miierable Condition ,* dread- 
ing the Return of my Diflemper the next Day ; 
at Night I made my Supper of three of the Turtle^S 
Eggs, which I roafted in the Afhes, and eat, as we 
call it, in the Shell ,• and this was the firft Bit of 
Meat I had ever as k'd God's Bleifing to, even as 
I could remember, in my whole Life. 

After I had eaten, I try'd to walk, but found 
my felf fo weak, that I could hardly carry the 
Gun, (for I never went out without that) fo I 
went but a little Way, and fat down upon the 
Ground, looking out upon the Sea, which was 
juft before me, and very calm and (mooth : As 
I fat here, fome fuch Thoughts as thefe occurred 
tome: 

V/hat is this Earth and Sea of which I havefeen 
fo much, whence is it produc'd, and what am I, 
and all the other Creatures, wild and tame, humane 
and brutal, whence are we ? 

Sure 



[ io8] 

Sure we are all made by fome fecret Power, who 
(orm'd the Earth and Sea, the Air and Sky ; and 
who is that ? 

Then it followed moft naturally. It is God that 
has made it all : Well, but then it came on flrange- 
ly, if God has made all thefe Things, He guides 
and governs them ail, and all Things that concern 
them j for the Power that could make ail Things, 
muft certainly have Power to guide and direct 
them. 

li fo, nothing can happen in the great Circuit of 
his Works, either without his Knowledge or Ap- 
pointment. 

And if nothing happens without his Knowledge, 
he knows that I am here, and am in this dreadful 
Condition ; and if nothing happens without his 
Appaintmentj he has appointed all this to befal 
me. 

Nothing occurred to my Thought to ccntradfft 
any of thefe Conclufions^ and therefore it relied 
upon me with the greater Force, that it mull: needs 
be, that God hath appointed all this to befal me; 
that I was brought to this miferable Circumftance 
by his Direction, behaving the fole Power, not of 
me only, but oF every Thing that happened in the 
World. Immediately it folio w'd, 

l^Phy has God done this to me ? IVhat have I done 
to bs thus us\l? 

My Ccnfcience prefently chcck'd me in that En- 
qmnv as if I had blafphem'd, and methought it 
fpoke to me like a Voice i M^RETCHl dofl thou 
ask tihat thou hafl dene! Look back upon a dreadful 
mif-fpent Life, and ask thy k\i ivhat thou haft not 
done? ask, Why js it that thou iv:rt not long ago de- 
ftroy'd <* Wh)' i^ert thou not dround in Yarmouth 
Roi^ds ? Kili'd in the Fight vJjen the Ship was taken by 
the Salke Man ot War i Devoured ly the -xild Beafls 

on 



[ 109 1 

en the Coafl of Africa? Or, Drowud HERE, 
lichen all the Crew per iff/ d but thy f elf? Dofl thou ask 
IVhat have 1 done f 

1 was ftruck dumb with thefe Refledtions, as one 
aftonifli'd, and had not a Word to fay, no not to 
anfwer to my felf, but rife up penfive and fad, 
walk'd back to my Retreat, and went up over my 
Wall, as if I had been going to Bed, but my 
Tlioughts were fadly difturb'd, and I had no In- 
clmation to Sleep; fo I fat down in my Chair, 
and lighted my Lamp, for it began to be dark : 
Now as the Appreheniion of the Return of my Di- 
ftemper terrify 'd me very much, it occurr'd to my 
Thought, that the BrafiUam take no Phyfick but 
their Tobacco, for almoft all Diflcmpers ; and I 
had a Piece of a Roil of Tobacco in one of the 
Chefts, which was quite cur'd, and fome alfo that 
was green and not quire cur'd. 

1 went, direded by Heaven no doubt ', for in 
this Chefi I found a Cure, both for Soul and Body, 
I open'd the Cheft, and found what Ilook'd for, 1^/2:-. 
the Tobacco ; and as the few Books, I had fav'd, 
lay there too, I took out one of the Bibles which 
Imention'd before, and which to this Time I had 
not found Leifure, or fo much as Inclination to 
look into ; I fay, I took it out, and brought both 
that and the Tobacco with me to the Table. 

What Ufe to make of the Tobacco, I knew not, 
as to my Diflemper, or whether it was good for it 
gr no; but I try'd feveral Experiments with it, as 
if I was refolv'd it Ihculd hit one Way or other : 
I firfl took a Piece of a Leaf, and chew'd it in my 
Mouth, which indeed at fir/l almoft flupify'd my 
Brain, the Tobacco being green and (Irong, and 
that I had not been much us'd to it ; then I took 
fome and fleeped it an Hour or two in fome Rum, 
and refolv'd to take a Dofeof it when Hay down ; 

and 



[ no] 

and laftly, I burnt fome upon a Pan of Coals, and 
held my Nofe clofe over the Smoke of it as long as 
I could bear it, as well for the Heat as almoft for 
Suffocation, 

In the Interval of this Operation, I took up the 
Bible and began to read, but my Head was too 
much difturb'd with the Tobacco to bear reading, 
at leaft that Time; only having open'd the Book ca- 
fually, the firll: Words that occur'd to me where 
thefe, Call on me in the Day ofT'rouble^ and I will deli- 
*uer^ and thou Jhalt glorify ifie. 

The Words were very apt to my Cafe, and made 
fome Impreffion upon my Thoughts at the Time of 
reading them, tho' not fo much as they did after- 
wards ; for as for being delivered, the VVord had no 
Sound, aslrnayfay, to me ; the Thing was fo remote^ 
fo impoiTible in my Apprehenfion of Things, that 
I began to fay as the Children of Ifrael did, when 
they were promised Flefh to eat. Can Godfpread a 
'table in the Wildernefs ? So I began to fay, Can God 
himfelf deliver me from this Place ? And as it was 
hot for many Years that any Hope appear'd, this 
prevailed very often upon my Thoughts ; But 
however, the Words made a great Impreffion upon 
me, and I mufed upon them very often. It grew 
now late, and the Tobacco had, as I faid, doz'd 
my Head fo much, that I inclined to fleep ; fo I 
left my Lamp burning in the Cave, leaft I (hould 
want any Thing in the Night, and went to Bed ; 
but before I lay down^ I did what I never had done 
in all my Life, I kneel'd down and pray'd to God 
to fulfil thePromifeto me, that if I call'd upon him 
in the Day of Trouble, he would deliver me ; af- 
ter my broken and imperfed Prayer waS over, I 
drunk the Rum in which I had ileep'd the Tobac- 
co, which was fo ftrcng and rank of the Tobacco^ 
that indeed I could fcarcc get it down;, immediately 

upon 



[Ill] 

upon this I went to Bed, I found prefently it flew 
up in my Head violently, but I fell into a found 
Sleep, and wak'd no more 'till by the Sun it muft 
neceilarily be near Three a-Clock in the Afternoon 
the next Day ; nay, to this Hour, I'm partly of the 
Opinion, that I llept all the next Day and Night, 
and *tili ahnoft Three that Day after ; for other- 
wife I knew not how I fhould lofe a Day out of my 
Reckoning in the Days of the Week, as it appeared 
fome Years after I had done j for Ol' I had loftit by 
crofTing and re-crofling the Line, I fhould have loft 
more chan one Day : But certainly I loft a Day in 
my Accompt, and never knew which Way. 

Be that however one Way or th' other, when I 
awak'd I found my felf exceedingly refrefh'd, and 
my Spirits lively and chearful ; when I got up, I 
was ftronger than I was the Day before, and my 
Stomach better, for I was hungry ; and in fliort, I 
had no Fit the next Day, but continu'd much 
alter'd for the better i this was the 29th. 

The 30th was my well Day of Courfe, and I 
went abroad with my Gun, but did not care to 
travel too far ; I kill'd a Sea Fowl or two, fomc- 
thing like a brand Goofe, and brought them Home, 
but was not very forward to eat them ; fo leatfomc 
more of the Turtle's Eggs, which were very good: 
This Evening I renew'd the Medicme which I had 
fuppos'd did me good the Day before, viz., the 
Tobacco fteep'd in Rum, only I did not take fo 
much as before, nor did I chew any of the Leaf, 
or hold my Head over the Smoke ; however, I was 
not fo well the next Day, which was the firft oijuly^ 
as I hop'd I jQiould have been; for I had a little 
Spice of the cold Fit, but ic was not much. 

^uly 2. I renew 'd the Medicine all the three 
Ways, and doz'd my felf with it as at firft i and 
doubled the Qi^antity which I drank. 

3- ^ 



[11^] 

5. I mifs'd the Fit for good and all, tho^ I did 
not recover my full Strength forfome Weeks arrer ; 
whiic I was thus gathering Strength, my Thoughts 
run exceedingly upon tin's Scripture, / lui// delroei- 
theey and the ImpojGTibiJiry of my Deliverance lay 
much upon my Mind in Barr of my ever expecting 
it: But as 1 was difcour..ging mjfelfwith iuch 
Thoughts, it occurr'd to my Mind, that I pored 
fo much upon my Deliverance from the main Aflli- 
<5tion, that I difregaided the Deliverance I had re- 
cciv'd ; and I wa , as k were, made to ask my 
felf {i:ch Queftions as thefe, I'/ai.. Have I not been 
delivei'd, and wondertuily too,f-rom Sicknefs? From 
the moll diftrefs'd Condition that could be, and 
that was fo frightful to me, and what Notice I 
had taken of it : Had I done my Part, God had de- 
liver' dmCy bin I had mtglonjsd him ; that i^ to fay, 
I had not own'd and been thankful for that as a 
Deliverance, and howcoi/d I expect greater De- 
liverance ? 

This touch'd my Heart very much, and imme- 
diately I kneei'd down and gave God Thanks a- 
loud, for my Recovery from my Sicknefs. 

"^liJ) 4. In the Morning I took the Bible, and be- 
ginning at the New Teiiamciit, I began fericufiy 
to read it, and impos'd upon my ielf to read a 
while e\ery Morning and every Nigiit, not tying 
my fcU to the Number of Chapters, but as long as 
my Thoughts (hou'd engage me ; It was not long 
after I f-t fcriouily to this Work, but I found 
my Heart more deeply and fincereiy atfc6tcd with 
the Wickednefs of my pad Life : The Im- 
preffion of my Dream reviv'd, and the Words, AU 
thefe "fhings have not bvought thee to Repentance, ran fe- 
r;ouily h\ m.y Thoughts : I w^s earnedly begging 
oFGod to give me Rcpentarce, when it happened 
providcnriaily the very Day that reading the Scri- 
pture, 



[ 115 J 

tnre, I ca me to thefe Words, Be is exalted a Vrin.e 
and a Saviour -, to give Repentance, and to give Rrmiffi- 
on. I threw down the Boo^, and with my Heart 
as well as my Hands iifted up to Heaven, in a 
Kind of* Extafy of Joy, I cty'd out aloud, Jcfas, 
thou Son of David, Jefus, thou exalted Prince and 
Saviour J give me Repentance I 

This was the firll: Time that I could fay, in the 
true Seiife of the Words, that I pray'd in all my 
Life j for now I pray'd with a Senfe of my Conditi- 
ony and with a true Scripture View of Hope found- 
ed on the Encouragement of the Word of God; and 
from this Time, I may fay, I began to have Hope 
that God would hear me. 

Now I began to conllrue the Words mentioned 
^bove. Call on me and I ivill deliver yoUy in a diffe- 
rent Senfe from what I had ever done before^ for 
then I had no Notion of any thing bdng call'd De- 
liverance, but my being deliver'd from the Capti- 
vity I was in ; for tho' I was indeed at large 
in the Place, yet the Ifland w^as certainly a 
Prifon to me, and that in the worft Senfe in the 
World ; but now I learn'd to rake it in another 
Senfe : Now I look'd back upon my pad Life with 
fuch Horror, and my Sins appear'd fo dreadful, 
that my Soul fought nothing of God, but Delive- 
rance from the Load of Guilt that bore down all my 
Comfort : As for my folitary Life it was nothing ; 
1 did not fo much as pray to be delivered from it, 
or think of it ; it was ail of no Confideration in 
Comparifon to this j And 1 add this Part here, to 
hint to whoever (hall read it, that whenever they 
come to a true Senfe of things, they will find De- 
liverance from Sin a much greater Bleffing, thaa 
Deliverance from AfRidion. 

But leaving this Part, I return tomv Journal. 

I ' My 



[114] 

My Condition began now to be, tho'not lefs mi-^ 
ferable as to my Way of living, yet much cafier 
to my Mind ; and my Thoughts being diredtcd, by 
a conflant reading the Seripture and praying to 
God, to things of a higher Nature ; I had a great 
deal of Comfort within, which till now I knew no- 
thing oU alfo, as my Health and Strength returned, 
Ibeftir'd myfelf to furiiifli myfelf with every thing 
that I wanted, and make my Way of living as re- 
gular as I could. 

From the 4rh oijuly to the 14th, I was chiefly 
employed in the walking about with my Gun in my 
Hand, a little and a little at a Time, as a Man 
that was gathering up his Strength after a Fit of 
Sicknefs : For it is hardly to be imagined, how low 
I was, and to what Weaknefs I was reduc'd. The 
Application which I made Ufe of was perfedly 
new, and perhaps what had never cur'd an Ague 
before, neither can I recommend it to any ore to 
pra^tife, by this Experiment; and tho' it did carry 
off the Fit, yet it rather contributed to weakening 
me ; for I had frequent Convulfions in my Nerves 
and Limibs for fome Time. 

I learnt from it alfo this in particular, that be- 
ing abroad in the rainy Scafon was the moft perni- 
cious thing to my Health that could be, efpccially 
m thofe Rains which came attended with Storms 
and Hurricans of Wind ; for as the Rain which came 
in the dry Scafon was always moft accompany'd 
with fuch Storms, fo I found that Rain was much 
more dangerous than the Rain which fell in Sep- 
ternber and Ocloher. 

1 had been nov/ in this unhappy Ifland above 10 
Months, all Poflibility of Deliverance from this 
Condition feem'd to be entirely taken from me ; 
and I firmly believed, that no humane Shape had 
ever fee Foot upon that Place: Having now fecur'd 

my 



[115] 

JtiyHabitaiion, as I thought, fully to my Mind, I 
had a great Defire to make a more perfect Difco- 
very of the liland, and to fee what other Produ- 
dzions I might End, which I yet kuew nothing 
of. 

It was the 15th of j^///jthat I began to take a 
more particular Survey of theliland it felt : I went 
up the Creek hrft, where, as I hinted I brought 
my Rafts on Shore; I found after 1 came about 
two Miles up, that the Tide did not flow any 
higher, and that it was no more than a little 
Brook of running Water, and very freih and good; 
but this being the dry Seafon, there was hardly any 
Water in fome Parts of it, at leali:, not enough to 
run in any Stream, fo as it could be perceived. 

On the Bank of this Brook I found many plea- 
fant Savanas, or Meadows, plain, fmooth, and 
Covered with Grafs; and on the rifing Parts of 
them next to the higher Grounds, where the Wa- 
ter, as it might be fuppofed, never overflowed, I 
found a great deal of Tobacco, green and growing 
to a great and very flrong Stalk ; there were di- 
vers other Plants which I had no Notion of, or Un- 
derftanding about, and m.ight perhaps have Vir- 
tues ot their own, which I could not find out. 

I fearched for the Cajjava Root, which the In- 
dians in ail that Climate make their Bread of, but I 
could find none. I faw large Plants of Aloes, but 
did not then underfland them. I faw feveral Sugar 
Canes, but wild, and for wantof Cultivation, im- 
perfed. I contented myfelf with thefe Difcoveries 
for this Time, and came back muflng with my 
(elf what Courfe I might take to know the Virtue 
and Goodnefs of any of the Fruits or Planes which 
I fhouli difcover; but could bring it to no Con- 
clufion : for in fhort, I had made fo little Obfer- 
vation while I was in the Brafth, that Unew little 

I 2 of 



of the Plants in the Field, at leafl very little Chac 
might fcrve me to any Purpofe now in my Di- 
ihcfs. 

The next Day, the 1 6th, I went up the fame 
Way again, and after going fomething farther than 
I had gone the Day before ; I found the Brook, and 
the Sa'vmas began to ceafe, and the Country be- 
came more woody tiian before i in this Part I found 
difi'erent Fruits, and particularly I found Melons 
upon line Ground in great Abundance ,* and Grapes 
upon the Trees ^ the Vines had fpread indeed over 
the Trees, and the Clufters of Grapes were juft 
now in their Prime, very ripe and rich : This was a 
furprifing Difcovery, and I was exceeding glad of 
them ; but 1 was warn'd by my Experience to eat 
fparingiy of them, rem.embring, that when I was 
alhorein Barbary, the eating of Grapes killed feveral 
of our Engi/jh Men who v/ere Slaves there, by 
throwing them into Fluxes and Fevers : But I 
found an excellent Ufe for thefe Grapes, and that 
was to cure or dry them in the Sun, and keep 
them as dry'd Grapes, or Raifins are kept, which 
I thought would be, as indeed they were, as 
wholefomc, as agreeable to eat, when no Grapes 
could be had. 

1 fpent ail that Evening there, and went not 
back to m.y Habitation, which by the way was 
the firft Night, as I mighc fay, 1 had Iain from 
Home. In the Night I took my iirfl Contrivance, 
and got up into a Tree, where I flept well, and the 
next Morning proceeded upon my Difcovery, tra- 
velling near four Miles, as I mighr Judge by the 
lengch of the Valley, keeping (till due North, with 
a Ridge of Hills on the South, and Eafl: lidc of 
me. 

At the End of this March T came to an Open- 
ins, where the Country feem'd to defcend to the 

, Wgfl> 



[117] 

Weft, and a little Spring of frefh Water, which if- 
fued out of the Side ot the Hill by me, run the 
pther way, that is due Eafl,- and the Country ap- 
peared fo frefh, fo green, fo flourifhing, every thing 
being in a conftant Verdure, or Flouriih oi Spring, 
that it looked like a planted Garden. 

I dcfcended a little on the Side of that delicious 
Vale, furveying it with a fecret kind of Fleafure, 
<^tho' mixt wiih my other afRicling Thoughts) to 
think that this was all my own, that I was King 
and Lord of all this Country indefeafibly, and 
had a Right ot Pofleirion ; and if I could convey it, 
I might have it in Inheritance, as compleatly as 
any Lord of a Manor in England. I faw here 
abundance of Cocoa Trees, Orange, and Le- 
mon, and Citron Tree? ; but all wild, and very 
few bearing any Fruit, at leaft not then : Howe- 
ver the green Limes that I gathered, were not 
only pleafantlto ear, but very whpJefpmc; and I 
mix'd their Juice afterwards with Water, which 
made it very v/holefome, and very cool, and re- 
frefh.ng. 

I found now I had Bufinefs enough to gather and 
.carry Home j and I refolvM to lay up a Store, as 
wel] of Grapes, as Limes and Lemons, to furnifh 
myfelf for the wet Seafon, which I knew was ap- 
preaching. 

In order to this, I gathered a great Heap of 
Grapes in one Place, and a lelfer Heap in another 
Place, and a great Parcel of Limes and Lemons in 
another Place ; and taking a few of each with me, 
J travell'd homeward, and refolv'd to come again, 
and bring a Bag or Sack, or what I could make to 
jcarry the reft Home. 

' Accordingly, having fpent three Days in this 
Journey, I came Home^ f o I mull now call my 
•Tent and my Cave: But before I got thither, the 

1 3 Grapes 



[ ii8 1 

Grapes were fpoird, the Richncfs of the FruitSj 
and the Weight of the Juice having broken them, 
and bruis'd them, they were good tor little or no- 
thing ; as to the Limes they were good, but 1 
cou'd bi'irg but a few. 

1 he next Day, being the i5?th, I went back, 
having made me two fmall Bags to bring Home 
my Harvefl : But 1 was furpriz'd, when coming 
to my Heap of Grapes, which were fo rich and 
fine when I gathered them, I found them all fpread 
about, trod to Pieces, and dragM about, Tome 
here, Tome there, and Abundance eaten and de- 
voured : By this I concluded, there were fome wild 
Creatures thereabouts, which had done this ', but 
wiiat they were I knew not. 

However, as I found that there was no laying 
them up on Heaps, and no carrying them away in. 
a Sack, but that one V/ay they would be dellroy^'d, 
and the other way they would be crufli'd with 
their own Weight, I took another Courfe ; for I 
gather'da large Quantity of the Grapes, and hung 
them up upon the out BrancliCS of the Trees, that 
they might cure and dry in the Sun ; and as for the 
Limes and Lemons, I carry'd as many back as I 
could well Hand under. 

When 1 came home from this Journeys I con- 
templated with great Pleafure the Fruitfulnefs of 
that Valley, and the Fleafantncis of rhe Situation, 
the Security from Storms en that Side the Water^ 
and the Wood, and concluded, that 1 had pitched 
upon a Place to fix my Abode, which was by far 
t le V orfl Part of the Country. Upon the whole 
1 began to connder of removing my Habitation; 
and to look out for a P^ace equally fale, as where 
I now was fitua;e, if poffible, in that pleafanc 
tiuitful Part of theliland. 

This 



[ 119 ] 

This Thought run Jong in my Head, and I was 
exceeding fond of it for (bme Time, the PJeafant- 
nefs of the Place tempting me ; but when I came 
to a nearer View of it, and to confider that I was 
now by the Sea-Side, where it was atleafl polTible 
that fomething might happen to my Advantage, 
and by the fame ill Fate that brought me hither, 
might bring fome other unhappy Wretches to the 
fame Place ; and tho' it was fcarce probable that 
any fuch Thing fliould ever happen, yet to enclofe 
myfelf among the HiiJs and Woods, in the Center 
of the Ifland, was to anticipate my Bondage, and 
to render fuch an Affair not only improbable, but 
impoffible ; and that therefore I ought not by any 
Means to remove. 

However I was fo enamoured of this PJace^ 
that I fpent much of my Time there for the 
whole remaining Part of the Month of July; and 
tho' upon fecond Thoughts I refolv^d as above, not 
to remove, yet I built me a little kind of a Bower, 
and furrounded it at a Diflance with a flrong 
Fence, being a double Hedge, as high as I could 
reach, well flakM, and filled between with Brujh- 
•wood; and here I lay very fecure, fometimes two 
or three Nights together, always going over it 
with a Ladder, as betore ; fo that I fancy'd now I 
had my Country Houfe, and my Sea-Coall-Houfe : 
And this Work took me up to the Beginning of 
Juguft, 

1 had but newly finilVd my Fence, and began 
to enjoy my Labour, but the Rains came on, and 
made me ftick clofe to my hrft Habitation ; for tho' 
I had made me a Tent like the other, with a Piece 
of a Sail, and fpread it very well ; yet I had not 
the Shelter oi a Hill to keep me from Storms, nor 
a Cave b'^hind me to retreat into, when the Rains 
were cxttviordiiiary. 

I 4 About 



[ 12.0 ] 

About the beginning of Augufl, a^ J /aid, I had 
finifli'd my Bower, and began to eiijoy myfclh 
The third of Auguft, I found the Grapes 1 had 
hung up were perfedly dryM, and, indeed, were 
excellent good Raifins of the Sun^ fo I began to 
take them down from the Trees, and it was very 
happy that I did fo; for the Rains which follow'd 
would have fpoilM them, and I had lofl the befl 
Part of my Winter Food ; for I had above two- 
hundred large Bunches of them. No fooner had 
I taken them all down, and carry 'd moll: of them 
Home to my Cave, but it began to rain, and from 
hence, which was the fourteenth oi Augufl, it ram'd 
more or lefs, every Day, till the middle of OBober ; 
and ibmetimes fo violently, that I could notflir out 
of my Cave for feveral Days. 

In this Seafon I was much furpriz'd with the 
Increafe of my Family ; I had been concerned for 
the Lofs of one of my Cats, who run away from 
me, or as I thought had been dead, and 1 heard no 
more Tale or Tidings of her, till to my Aftonifli- 
mcnt {he came Home about the End of Auguft^ 
wirh three Kutens. This was the more ilrange to 
me, becaufe tho' I had kill'd a wild Cat, as I 
call'd it, with my Gun; yet I thought it was a 
quite differ irg Ruid from our European Cats; yet 
the young Cars were the fame Kind of Houfe breed 
like rhe old one ; and both my Cars being Fema'es, 
I tliought it very ftrange : But from thcfe three 
Cats, I afterwards came to be fo peiler'd v/ith Cats, 
ti^at I wasforc'd to kill them like Vermin, orw^ild 
Eeafts, and to drive them from my Houfe as much 
as poffible. 

From the fourteenth of Augufi to the twenty 
fixth was incedant Rain, fo that! could not Itir, and 
was now very careful not to be much wet. In this 
Coiifinement'i began to be ftraitncd for Feed, but 

venturing 



[ III ] ^ 

venturing out twice, I one Day kill'd a Goat, and 
the laft Day, whfch was the twenty fixth, found 
a very large Tortoife, which was a Treat to me, 
and my Food was regulated thus j I eat a Bunch of 
Raifms for myBreakfaft, a Piece of the Goat's Flefh 
or of the Turtle for my Dinner broil'd ; for to my 
great Misfortune, I had no VefTei to boil or flew 
any Thing ; and two or three of the Turtle's Eggs 
for my Supper. 

During this Confinement in my Cover by the Rain 
I work'd daily two or three Hours at enlarging my 
Cave,and by Degrees worked iron towards one Side, 
till I came to the Ontfide of the Hill, and made 
a Door or Way out, which came beyond my Fence 
or Wall, and fo I came in and out this Way,* but I 
was not perfedly eafy at lying fo open; for as I 
had manag'd myfelf before, 1 was in a perfeft En- 
clofiire, whereas now I thought I lay expos'd, and 
open for any Thing to come in upon me,* and yet 
I could not perceive that there was any living 
Thing to fear, the biggeft Creature that I had yet 
feen upon the Kland being a Goat. 

»S'£'/?^^w^^T the thirtieth, I was now come to the 
unhappy Anniverfary of my Landing. I caftup the 
Notches on my Poll;, and found I had bQ^n on 
Shore three hr-ndrcd and lixty five Days- I kept 
this Day as a Solemn Fail, fctting it apart to Re- 
ligious Exercifc, proflrating myfelf on the Ground 
with the mod .ferious Humiliation, confefling my 
Sins to God, acknowledging his Righteous judg- 
ments upon me, and praying to him to have Mer- 
cy on me, through Jefus Chvift-y and having not 
tailed- the le^ft Refrefhment for twelve Hours, 
even rill the going down of the Sun, I then eat a 
Biskct-Cake, and a Bunch of Grapes, and went to 
B"d, finifhi-ng the Day as I began it. 

I had 



I had all this Time obferv*d no Sabbath-Day^ 
for as at firfl I had no Senle of Religion upon my 
Mind, I had after fome Time omitted to diftin- 
guifh the Weeks, by making a longer Notch than 
ordinary for the Sabbath-Day, and io did not really 
know what any of the Days were i but now having 
call up the Days, as above, I found I had beea 
there a Year ; fo 1 divided it into Weeks, and fet 
apart every feventh Day for a Sabbath ; though I 
found at the End of my Account I had loil a Day 
or two in my Reckoning. 

A little after. this my Ink began to fail me, and 
fo I contented myfelf to ufc it more fparingly, and 
to write down only themoft remarkable Events of 
my Life, without continuing a daily Memorandum 
of other Things- 

The rainy Seafon, and the dry Seafon, began now 
to appear regular to me, and I learnt to divide: 
them fo, as to provide for them accordingly. But 
I bought all my Experience before I had it i and 
this lam going to relate, was one of the moil dif- 
couraging Experiments that I made at all. I have 
mencion'd tiiat I hadfav'd the few Ears of Barley 
and iViccy which I had fo furprizingly foun fpring 
up, as I thought, of themlelves, and believe there 
Vv'ere about thirty Stall: s oi Rice, and about twenty 
of Barley ; and now I thought it a proper Time 
to fow It after the Rains, the Sun being in its 
Soiithern Position going from me. 

Accordingly I dug up a Piece of Ground as well 
as I could with my wooden Spade, and dividing 
it in to two Parts, 1 fow'd my Grain ; but as I was 
fowing, it cafually accur'd to my Thoughts, that 
I would not fow it all at hrft, becaufe 1 did not 
know when was the proper Time for it i fo I fow'd 
about two Thirds of the Seed, leaving about a 
handti:! of eacli. 

It 



It was a great Comfort to me afterwards, that 
I did fo, for not one Grain of that I fow'd this 
Time came to any thing ; for the dry Months 
following, the Earth having had no Rain after the 
Seed was fown', it had no Moifture to affift its 
Growth, and never came up at all, till the wet 
Seafon had come again, and then it grew as if it 
had been but newly fown. 

Finding my firfl Seed did not grow, which I 
eafily imagined was by the Drought, I fought for 
a moifter Piece of Ground to make another Trial 
in, and I dug up a Piece of Ground near my new 
Bower, and fow'd the refl of my Seed in February, 
a little before the Vernal Equinox j and this having 
the rainy Months of March and April to water it, 
fprung up very pleafantly, and yielded a very good 
Crop ; but having Part of the Seed left only, and 
not daring to fow ail that I had, I had but a fmail 
Qiiantity at lafl, my whole Crop not amounting 
to above half a Peck of each kind. 

But by this Experiment I was made Mailer of 
my Bufinef , and knew exa(5tly when the proper 
Seafon was to fow ; and that I might exped two 
Seed Times, and two Harvefls every Year. 

While this Corn was growing, I made a little 
Difcovery which was of Ufe to me afte wards \ As 
foon as the Rains were over, and the Weather be- 
gan to fettle, which was about the Month of No- 
member y I made a Viiit up the Country to my Bow- 
er, where though I had not been fome Months, yet 
I found all Things juft as I left them. The Cir- 
cle or double Hedge that 1 had made, was not on- 
ly firm and entire ; but the Stakes which I had cut 
out of fome Trees that grev/ thereabouts, were all 
fliot out and grown with long Branches, as much 
as a Wil!ow-Tree ufually fhoots the firlt Year after 
lopping its Head. I could not tell what Tree to 

call 



[ 114 ] 

call it, that thefe Stakes were cut from. I was 
furpris'd, and yet very well pleas'd, to fee rht: 
voung Trees grow ; and 1 prun'd them, and led 
them up to grow as much alike as I could j and it 
is fcarce credible how beautiful a Figure they grew 
into in three Years i fo that though the Hedge 
xnade a Circle of about twenty five Yards in Dia- 
meter, yet the Trees, for fuch I might now call 
them, {oon coverM it ; and ir was a compleat 
Shade, fufficient to lodge under all che dry Seafon. 

This made me refolve to cut fome more Stakes, 
and make me a Hedge lij^e this in a Semicircle 
Tound my Wall ; I mean that of my fir/l Dwelling, 
which I did ; and placing the Trees or Stakes in a 
double Row, at about eight Yards Diftance from 
my firll Fence, they grew prefentiy, and were at 
tkll: a fine Cover to my Habitation, and after- 
ward ferv'd for a Defence alio, as I fhall obferve 
in its Order. "• 

I found now. That the Seafons of the Year 
might generally be divided, nor into Summer 'and 
Winter, as in Europe \ but into the Rainy-Seafons, 
and the Dry-Seafons, which were generally thus *. ' 

Half ^f^^'^7.; Rainy, the 9^^ being then on, or 
- ,^,f^T j\ near the £p/^.x.^ ■' , ^ 



Half April,'^ 

^^^^VVDrv, the Sun being then to the 
June > ^^.^jj qC ^i^^ Lii-je, • — 

Half^i>^«/^J 

Half 



[ 115 ] 

m\( juguj},-^^,^. ^,^g ^^^ ^^^. ^^^^ ^^^ 

TT ir>^-z / \ back. 
Halt Octcber, j 

Half OciGher,'\ 

^DlZll\i^'l^ the 6'^j. being then to the 
f-, f Cioiith or the Line. 

January^ \ 

Half FebmaryjJ 

The Rainy-Seafon fometimes held longer or 
fhorter, as the Winds happened to blow \ but this 
was the general Obfervation I made : After I had 
found, by Experience, the ill Confequence of being 
Abroad in the Rain, I took care to furnifh myfelf 
with Proviiions before-hand, that I might not be 
oblig'd to go out j and I (at within Doors as much 
as poflible during the wet Months. 

In this Time I found much Employment, (and 
very fuitabie alfo to the Time) for I found great 
Occafion of many Things which I had no way to 
furnifh myfelf with, but by hard Labour and con- 
ftant Application ; particularly, I try'd many Ways 
to make my felf a Basket, but aiJ the Twigs I 
could get for the Purpofe prov'd fo brittle, that 
they would do nothing. It prov'd of excellent Ad- 
vantage to me now. That when I was a Boy, I 
ufcd to take a great Delight in lianding at a Basket- 
maker s in the Town where my Father liv^d, to 
fee them make their IVjckevware i and being, as 
Boys ufually are, very ofHcious to help, and a 
great Obferver of tiie Manner how they work'd 
thofe Things, and fometimes lending a Hand, I 
had by this Means full Knowledge of the Methods 
of ir, that I wanted nothing but the Materials i 
when it came into my Mind, That the Twigs of 
that Tree from whence I cut my Stakes that grew. 



iniglit poffibly be as tough as the Sallows, and 
IVdlowsy and Ofters in Englandy and I refolv'd 
to try. 

Accordingly the next Day I went to my Coun- 
try-Houfe, as I call'd it, and cutting fome of the 
fmaller Twigs, I found them to my Purpofe as 
much as I could defire ,• whereupon I came the 
next Time prepared with a Hatchet to cut down a 
Quantity, which I foon found, for there was great 
Plenty of them ; tbefe I fet up to dry within my 
Circle or Hedge, and when they were lit for Ufe, 
I carried them to my Cave, and here during the 
next Seafon I employ'd my felf in making, as ijcell 
as I could:, a great many Baskets, both to carry 
Earth, or to carry or lay up any Thing as I had 
Occafion. And tho' I did not finifh them very hand- 
fomly, yet I made them fufficiently ferviceable for 
my Purpofe ; and thus afterwards I took Care ne- 
ver to be without them ; and as my IVicker-vjare 
decay 'd, I made more, efpecially, I made flrong 
deep Baskets to place my Corn in, inJftead of Sacks, 
when I fliould come to have any Quantity of it. 

Having mafler'dthis Difficulty, and employ'd a 
World of Time about it, I beftir'd myfelf to fee 
if poffible how to fupply two V/ants : I had no 
Veifels to hold any Thing that was Liquid, ex- 
cept 6wo Runlets which weie almofl full of Rum, 
and fome Glafs Bottles, fome of the common Size, 
and others which were Cafe-Bottles fquarc, for 
the holding of Waters, Spirits, (7c. I had not {o 
much as a Pot to boil any thing, except a great 
Kettle, which I fav'd out of the Ship, and which 
was too big for fuch Ufe as I defir'd it, viz.^ to 
make Broth, and flew a Bit of Meat by it felf. 
The fccond Thing I would fain have had, was a 
Tobacco-Pipe; but it was impoflible to me to 

make 



[ 127 ] 

hlake one, however I found a Contrivance for tha^ 
too at hiil. 

I employ 'd myfelf in Planting my fecond Rows 
of Stakes or Files, and in this Wicker-\\ oi-king ail 
the Summer, ordrySeafon, when another Biilinefs 
took m^e up more Time than it could be imaging 
I could fpare. 

I mention'd before. That I had a great Mind to 
fee the whole Illand, and that I had travelj'd up 
the Brook, and fo on to where I built my Bower, 
and where 1 had an Opening quite to the Sea on 
the other Side of the Ifland, 1 now refolv'd to 
travel quite crofs to the Sea- Shore en that Side; 
fo taking my Gun, a Hatchet, and my Dog, and 
a larger Qiiantity of Powder and Shot than ufual, 
with two Bisket Cakes, and a great Bunch of 
Raiiins in my Pouch for my Store, I began my 
Journey. When I had pafs'd the Vale where my 
Bower flood as above, I came within View of the 
Sea, to the IVefi, and it being a very clear Day, I 
fairly defcry'd Land, wliether an liland or a Con- 
tinent, I could not tell; but it lay very high, 
extending from the i^-^e/i to the W. S. IV. at a very 
great Diftance; by my Guefs it could not be lefs 
than fifteen or twenty Leagues off. 

I could not tell wliat Part of the World this 
might be, otherwife than that I knew it muft be 
part of -America, and as I concluded by all my 
Obfervations, muff be near the Spanip Dominions, 
and perhaps was all inhabited by Savages, where 
if I fhould have landed, I had been in a -worfe 
Condition than I was now, and therefore I acqui- 
efced in the Difpofitions of Proi'idence, which I 
began now to own, and to believe, order'd every 
Thing [or the bell ; I fay, I quieted my Mind with 
this, and left aiTlidingmyfelf with fruitlefs Wiflies 
of being their. 

Eefides 



Befides, after Tome Paiife upon tins AfTair, I 
conlider'd that if this Land was the Spanijh Coafl:, 
I fhould certainly, one Time or other, lee Torn e 
Veflel pafs or re-pafs one Way or other : but if 
hot, then it was the Savage Coaft between the 
Spani[h Country and Bra/ils-, which are indeed the 
M^oiikoi Savages; for they are Cannibals, or Men- 
eaters, and fail not to 'murder and devour all the 
human# Bodies that fall into their Hands. 

With thefe Confiderations I walk'd veryleifure- 
ly forward. I found that S'lAt of the Ifland where 
1 now was, much pleafanter than mine, the open 
ox Savana Fields fvveet, adorned with Flowers and 
Grafs, and full of very line Woods. I faw Abun- 
dance of Parrots, and tain I would have caught one, 
if polTible'to have kept it to be tame, and taught 
it to fpeak to me. I did, after fome Pains taking, 
catch a young Parrot, for I knock'd it down with 
a Stick, and having recovered it, I brought it home ; 
but it was (omQ Years before I could make him 
fpeak: However, at lad: I taught him to call me 
by my Name very familiarly : But the Accident 
that follow'd, tho' ii be a Trifle, will be very di- 
verting in its Place. 

I was exceedingly diverted with this Journey: 1 
found in the low Grounds Hares, as 1 thought 
them to be, and Foxes, but they differed greatly 
from all the other Kinds I had met with ,- nor could 
I fatisfy myfelf to eat them, tho' I kill'd feveral : 
But I had no need to be venturous ; for I had no 
Want of Food, and of that which was very good 
tco,' efpecially thefe three Sorts, viz.- Goats, Pid- 
geons, and Turirleor Torroifej which,added to my 
Grapes, Leaden-ball Market could not have fur- 
nifh^da Table better than I, in Proportion to the 
Company; and tho' my Cafe was deplorable 
enough, yet I had great Caufe for Thankfulnefs 

and 



[ 1^9 ] 

that I was not driven to any Extremities for Food | 
but rather Plenty, even to Dainties. 

I never travell'd in this Journey above two Miles 
outright in a Day, or thereabouts ; but I took fo 
many Turns and Returns, to fee what Difcoveries 
I could make, that I came weary enough to the 
Place where I refolved to.fit down for all Night ; 
and then I either repos'd myfelf in a Tree, or fur- 
rounded myfelf with a Row of Stakes fet upright 
in the Ground, either from one Tree to another, 
or fo as no wild Creature could come at me, with- 
out waking me. 

As foon as I came to the Sea Shore, I was fur- 
prifed to fee that I had taken up my Lot on the 
worft Side of the Ifland ; for here indeed the Shore 
was covered with innumerable Turtles, whereas on 
the other Side I had found but three in a Year and 
half. Here was alfo an infinite Number of Fowls, 
of many Kinds, fome which I had feen, and fome 
which I had not feen of before, and many of them 
very good Meat ; but fuch as I knew not the 
Names of, except thofe cali'd Penguins. 

I could have Ihot as many as I pleas'd, but was 
very fparingof my Powder and Shot ; and therefore 
had more Mind to kill a She-Goat, if I could, 
which I could better feed on ; and though there 
were many Goats here more than on my Side the 
Illand, yet it was with much more Difficulty that 
I could come near them, the Country being flat 
and even, and they faw me much fooner than when 
I was on the Hill. 

I confefs this Side of the Country was much 
pleafanter than mine, but yet I had not the leafl In- 
clination to remove ; for as 1 was Rxd in my Ha- 
bitation, it became natural to me, and I feem'd all 
the while I was here, to be as it were upon a Jour- 
ney, and from Home : However, I travel] 'd along 

K the 



[130] 

the Shore of the Sea, towards the Eafl, I fuppofd 
about twelve Miles ; and then fetting up a great 
Pole upon the Shore tor a Mark, 1 conckided I 
would go Home again i and that the next Journey 
I took fhould be on the other Side of the Ifland, 
Eafl from my Dwelling, and fo round till I came 
to my Poll again : Ot which in its Place. 

I took another Way to come back than that I 
went, thinking I could eafily keep ail the Ifland 
fo much in my View, that I could not mifs finding 
my firft Dwelling by viewing the Country; but 1 
found myfelf miilaken j for being come about two 
or three Miles, I found mylelf defcended into a 
very large Valley ; but fo furrounded with Hills, 
and thofe Hills covered with Wood, that I could 
not fee v/hich was my Way by any Diredion but 
that of the Sun, nor even then, unlefs I knew very 
well the Poiition of the Sun at that Time of the 
Day. 

It happened to my farther Misfortune, Thatthe 
Weather prov'd haz|y for tlxree or four Days, 
while I was in this Valley ,• and not being able to 
lee the Sun, I wander'd about very uncomfortably, 
and at laft was obliged to find out the Sea Side, 
look for my Pcft, and come back the fame Way I 
went; and then b}: eafy Journies I turn 'd Home- 
ward^ the Weather being exceeding hot, and my 
Gun, Ammunition, Hatchet, and other Things 
very heavy. 

in this Journey my Dog furpriz'd a young Kid, 
and feiz'd upon it, and running in to take hold 
of it, caught it, and fav'd it alive from the Dog : 
I had a great Mind to bring it Home if I could; 
for I had often been mufing. Whether it might not 
be poflible to get a Kid or two, and fo raife a 
Breed of tame Goats, which might fupply me 
when my -Powder and Shot fhould be all fpent. 

I made 



[ 131 ] 

I itiadc a Collar to this little Creature, and with 
a String which I made of fbme Rope-yarDj which 
I always carry 'd about me, I led him along, tho' 
with feme Difficulty, till I came to my Bower, and 
there I enclosed him, and left him ; fOr i was very 
impatient to be at Home, from w^hence I had been 
abfent above a Month. 

I cannot expreis what a Satisfadion it was to 
me, to come into my old Hutch, and \yc down in 
my Hammock-Bed : This little wandring Journey, 
without fettled Place of Abode, ha.d been fo un- 
pleafant to me, that my own Houfe, as I call'd itj 
to myfelf, was a perfec^t Settlement to me, com- 
pared to that ; and it re^derM every Thing about 
me fo comfortable, that I refolv'd I would never 
go a great Way from it again, while it fiiould be 
my Lot to flay en the Ifland. 

I repos'd myfelf here a Week, to reft and regale 
myfelf after my long Journey ; during which, moft 
of the Time was taken up in the weighty Affair of 
making a Cage for my Poll, who began now to be 
a mere Domeflick, and to be mighty well acquain- 
ted v/ith we. Then I began to think of the poor 
Kid, which I had pcnn'd in within my little Cir- 
cle, and refolv'd to go and fetch it Home, or give 
it fame Food,* accordingly I w^entj and found it 
where I left it j for indeed it could not get out, but 
was almoft ftarv'd for want of Food, 1 went and 
cut Bows of Trees, and Branches of fuch Shrubs 
as I could find, and threw it over, and having kd 
it, I ty'd it as I did before to lead away ; but it 
was fo tame with being hungry, that I had no need 
to have ty'd it, for it folli>w d me like a Dog ; and 
as I continually fed it^ the Creature became fo 
loving, i^o gentle, and fo fond, that it was froni 
that Time one of my Domefticks alfo, and would 
never leave me afterwards* 

K a The 



[13^ 

The rainy Seafon of the Autumnal Equino:^ was 
now come, and I kept the 30th of September in the 
fame folemn Manner as before, being the Anniver- 
fary of my Landing on the liland, having now been 
there two Years, and no more Profpedot being de- 
livered than the iirft Day I came there. I fpent the 
whole Day in humble :^nd thankful Acknowledg- 
ments of the many wonderful Mercies which my So- 
litary Condition was attended with, and without 
which it might have been infinitely more miferable. 
I gave humble and hearty Tlianks that God had 
been pleafed to difcover to me, even that it was 
polTible, I might be more happy in this foJitary 
Condition, than I fhould have been in a Liberty of 
Society, and in all the Pieafures of the World. That 
He could fully make up to me the Deficiencies of 
my folitary State, and the want of human Society, 
by his Prefence, and the Communications of his 
Grace to my Soul, fupporting, comforting, and en- 
couraging me to depend upon his Providence here, 
and hope for his eternal Prefence hereafter. 

It was now that I began fenfibly to feel how 
much more happy this Lite I now led was, with 
all its miferable Circumftances, than the wicked, 
curfed, abominable Life I led all the paft Part of 
my Daysj and now I changed both my Sorrows 
and my Joys ; my very Defires alter'd, my Affecti- 
ons changed their Gufls, and my Delights were 
perfedly new, from what they were at my firit 
coming, or indeed for the two Years pail. 

Before, as I walked about either on my Hunt- 
ing, or for viewing the Country, the Anguifn of 
inv Soul at my Condition, would break out upon 
mc on a fudden, and my very Heart would die 
within m.e, to think of the Woods, the Mountains 
the Defarts I was in ; and how I was a Prifoner 
jock'd up with the eternal Bars and Bolts of the 

Ocean^ 



Ocean, in an uninhabited V/ildernefs, without Re- 
demption ; In themidftof the greatefl Compofures 
of my Mind, this would break out upon me like a 
Storm, and make me wring my Hands, and weep 
like a Child : Sometimes it would take nie in the 
middle of my Work, and I would immediately fit 
down and (igh, and look upon the Ground for an 
Hour or two together,- and this wasiliil wo:feto 
me j for i£ I could burft out into Teart, or vent 
my felf by Words, it would go off, and the G:ief 
having exhaufted it felf, would abate. 

But now I began to exercife my felf with new 
Thoughts i I daily read the Word of God, and ap- 
ply'd all the Comforts of it to my prefent State. 
One Morning benig very fad, I open'd the Bible 
upon thefe Words, / lu/// never, never leave thee, 
nor forfake thee; immediately it occur'd. That thefe 
Words were to me, Why elfe fhould they be dired- 
ed in fuch a Manner, jull: at the Moment when I 
was mourning over my Condition, as one forfaken 
of God and Man ? Well then, faid I, i^ God does 
not forfake me, of what ill Confequence can it be, 
or what matters it, though the World fliould all 
forfake me, feeing on the other hand, if I had all 
the World, and Ihould lofe the Favour and Blef^ 
fingaf God, there would be no Comparifon in the 
Lofs? 

From this Moment I began to conclude in my 
Mind, That it was polTible tor me to be more hap- 
py in this forfaken folitary Condition, than it was 
propable I fhoiild never have been in any other 
particular State in the World ; and with this 
Thought I was going to give Thanks to God for 
bringing me to this Place. 

I know not what it was, but fomething fhock'd 
my Mind at that Thought, and I durft not fpeak 
the Words : How c^nit thou be fuch a Hypocrite, 

K 3 (fed 



[ 134 1 

(faidi, even audibly) to pretend to be thankful for 
a Condition, which however thou may 'ft endea-? 
vour to be contented with, thou would'ft rather 
pray heartily to be delivered froni; fo I flopp^'d 
there: But though I could not fay, Ithank'dGod 
for being there j yet I (incerely gave Thanks to 
God for opening my Eyes, by whatever afRiding 
Providences, to fee the former Condition of my 
Life, and to mourn for my Wickednefs, and repent. 
I never open'd the Bible, or fhut it, but my very 
Soul within meblefs'd God fordireding my Friend 
in Enghmdy without any Order of mine, to pack it 
up among my Goods ; and for affifling me after 
wards to lave it out of the V\/reck of the Ship. 

Thus, and in this Difpofition of Mind, l began 
my third Year ; and tho'I have not given the Rea- 
der the Trouble of fo particular Account of my 
Works this Year as the iirft; yet in general it 
may be obferv*d. That I was very feldom idle : 
but having regularly divided my Time, according 
to the feveral daily Employments that were before 
me, fuchas, Firft, my Duty to God and the Read- 
ing the Scriptures, which 1 conftantly fet apart 
iome Time for thrice every Day. Secondly^ The go- 
ing abroad with m.y Gun for Food, which generally 
took mc up three Hours in every Morning, when 
it did npt rain. "Thivdly, The ordering, curing, 
preferving, and cocking what I had kill'd or catch'd 
for my fuppiy ; thefe took up great Part of the 
Day : Alio it is to beconfidered that the middle of 
the Day, when the Sun was in the Zenith, the Vio- 
lence of the Heat was too great to ilir o.ut , fo that 
^boutfour Hours iw the Evening was all the Time 
1 coiiid be fuppos'd to work in, with this Excep- 
tion, That iometimes I chang'd my Hours of 
Hunting and Working, and went to work in the 

Morning 



[ 155] 

Moi^ning, and abroad with my Gun in the Aftci> 
noon. 

To this ftiort Time ailow'd for Labour, I defirc 
may be added the exceeding Laborioufhefs of my 
Work ; the many Hours which for want of Tools, 
want of Help, and want of Skill ; every Thing I 
did, took up out cF my Time. For Example, I 
was full two and forty Days making me a Board for 
a long Shelf, which I wanted in my Cave; where- 
as two Sawyers with their Tools, and a Saw-Pic 
would have cut fix of them out of the fame Tree. 
in half a Day. 

My Cafe was this : It was to be a large Tree, 
which was to be cut down, becaufe my Board was 
to be a broad one. This Tree I was three Days 
a cutting down, and two more cutting off the 
Bows, and reducing it to a Log or Piece of Tim- 
ber. With inexprelTible hacking and hewing I 
reduc'd both the Sides of it into Chips, till it be- 
gun to be light enough to move ; then I turn'd it, 
and made one Side of it fmooth and flat as a, 
Board, from End to End ; then turning that fide 
downward, cut the other Side, till I brought the 
Plank to be about three Inches thick, and fmooth 
on both Sides. Any one may judge the Labour of 
my Hands in fuch a Piece of Work,* but Labour 
and Patience carry 'd me through that and many 
other things : I only obferve this in particular, to 
fiiew the Reafon why fo much of my Time went 
away with fo little Work, viz,. That what might be 
a little to be done with Help and Tools, was a vaft 
Labour, and requir'da prodigious Time to do a* 
lone, and by hand. 

Bntnotwichftanding this, with Patience and La- 
bour I went through many things i and indeed eve^ 
ry thing that my Circumftances made necellary to 
me to do, as will appear by what follows. 

K 4 I was 



[ ^3<^ ] 

I was now, in the Months oiNovemher and De- 
cemheyy expeding my Crop of Barley and Rice. 
The Ground I had manur'd or dug up for them 
was not great; for as I obferv'd, my Seed of each 
was not above the Quantity of half a Peck ; 
for I had loft one whole Crop by fowing in the 
dry Seafon ; but now my Crop promised very well, 
when on a fudden I found I was in danger of lo- 
(ing all again by Enemies of feveral Sorts, which 
it was fcarce pofTible to keep from it ; as firft, the 
Goats, and wild Creatures which I call'd Hares, 
who rafting the Sweetnefs of the Blade, Jay in it 
Kight and Day, as foon as it came up, and eat it 
fo clofe, that it could get no Time to ftioot up into 
Stalk. 

This I faw no Remedy for but by making an En- 
clofure about it with a Hedge, which I did with a 
great deal of Toil ; and the more, becaufe it re- 
quired Speed. However, as my arable Land was 
but fmall, fuiced to my Crop, I got it totally well 
fenc'd in about three Weeks Time; and fhooting 
fome of the Creatures in the Day-time, I fet my 
Dog to guard it in the Night, tying him up to a 
Stake at the Gate, where he would ftand and bark 
all Nightlong; fo in a little time the Enemies for- 
fook the Place, and the Corn grew very ftrong, and 
well, and began to ripen apace. 

But as the Beafts ruined me before, v/hi!e my 
Corn was in the Blade; fo the Birds were as likely 
to ruin me now, when it was in the Ear ; forgo- 
ing along by the Place to fee how it throve, I faw 
my little Crop furrounded with Fowls of I know 
not how many Sorts, who ftood as it were watch- 
ing till I fliould be gone: I immediately let fly a- 
mong them (for I always had my Gun with me) 
i had no iboner fhot but there rofe up a little 

Cloud 



[137] 

Cloud of Fowls, which I had not feen at all, from 
among the Corn it felf. 

This touch 'd me fenfibly, for I forefaw, that in 
a few Days rheyw^ould devour all my Hopes, that 
I fhould be ftarv'd, and never be able to raife a Crop 
at all, and what to do 1 could not tell : However, 
I refolv'd not to lofe my Corn, if poflible, the' I 
Ihould watch it Night and Day. In the firft 
Place, I went among it to fee what Damage was 
already done, and found they had fpofl'd a good 
deal of it, but that as it was yet too green for 
them, the Lofs was not fo great, but that the Re- 
mainder was like to be a good Crop if it could be 
fav'd. 

I ftaid by it to load my Gun, and then coming 
away I could eafily fee the Thieves fitting upon all 
the Trees about me, as if they only waited till I 
was gone away, and the Event prov'd it to be fo ; 
for as I walk'd off as if I was gone, I was no fooner 
out of their Sight, but they dropt down one by 
one into the Corn again. I was fo provok'd that I 
could not have Patience to flay till more came on, 
knowing that every Grain that they eat now, was, 
as it might be [aid, a Peck-loaf to me in the Confe- 
quencc ; but coming up to the Hedge, I fir'd again, 
and kill'd three of them. This was what I wifh^'d 
for i fo I took them up, and ferv'd them as we, 
ferve notorious Thieves in England^ (viz,.) hang'd 
them in Chains for a Terror to others. It is im- 
poflible to imagine a'mof]:,that this fhould have fuch 
an Effed: as it had ; for the Fowls wou'd not only 
not come at the Corn, but in fhort they forfook all 
that Part of the Ifland, and I could never fee a Bird 
near the Place as long as my Scare-Crows hung 
there. 



This 



[ 138 ] 



This I was very glad of, you may be fure, and 
about the latter end of December^ which was our 
fecond Harvefl ot the Year, I reap'd my Crop. 

I was fadly put to it for a Scythe or a Sickle to 
cut it down, and all I could do was to make one as 
well as I could out of one of the broad Swords 
or Cutlaffes, which I favM among the Arms out of 
the Ship. However, as my firfl Crop was but fmall, 
1 had no great Difficulty to cut it down ; in fhort, 
I reap'd it my Way, for I cut nothing off but the 
Ears, and carry "d it away in a great Basket which 
I had made, ^nd fo rubb'd it out with my Hands ; 
and at the End of all my Harvefting, I found that 
out of my half Peck of Seed, I had near two Bulhels 
of Rice, and above two Bufhelsandhalf of Barley, 
that is to fay, by my Guefs, for I had no Meafurcp 
at that time. 

However, this was a great Encouragement tome; 
and I forefaw that in time, it u^ould pleafe God 
to fupply me with Bread : And yet here I was per- 
plexed again, for I neither knew how to grind or 
make Meal of my Corn, or indeed how to clean it 
and part it ; nor i(^ made into Meal, how to make 
Bread of it ; and if how to make it, yet I knew 
r,ot how to bake it : thefe things being added to my 
Defire of having a good Qtiantity of Stoie, and to 
iecure a conilant Supply, 1 refolv'd not to taile any 
ot this Crop, but to preferve it all for Seed againft 
the next Seafon, and in the mean time to employ 
all my Study and Hours of working to accomplifli 
this great VV'ork of providing my felf with Corn 
and Bread. 

It might be truly faid, that now I work'd for 
my Bread : ^Tis a little wonderful, and what I be- 
lieve fev/ People have thought much upon, vizj. the 
iirang^ Multitude of little Things, ueceffary in the 

Pro- 



providing, producing, curing, dreffing, making 
and finifning this one Article of Bread. 

I that was reduc'd to a mere State of Nature, 
found this to be my daily Difcouragement, and was 
made more and more fenfible of it every Hour, even 
after I had got the firft Handful of Seed-Corn, 
which, as I have faid, came up unexpe<^edly, and 
indeed to a Surprize. 

Firft, I had no Plow to turn up the Earth, no 
Spade or Shovel to dig it. Well, this I conquered, 
by making a wooden Spade, as I obferv'd before; 
but this did my Work but in a wooden manner, and 
tho'' it coil me a great many Days to make it, yet 
for want of Iron it not only wore out the fooner, 
but made my Work the harder, and made it be 
performed much worfe. 

However, this I bore with, and was content to 
work it out with Patience, and bear with the Bad- 
nefs of the Performance. When the Corn was fow'd, 
I had no Harrow, but was forc'd to go over it my 
felf, and drag a great heavy Bough of a Tree over 
it, to fcratch it, as it may be call'd, rather than 
rake or harrow it. 

When it was growing and grown, I have ob- 
ferv'd already, how many Things I wanted, to 
Fence it. Secure it, Mow or Reap it. Cure and 
Carry it home, Thrafti, Part it from the Chaff, 
and Save it. Then I wanted a Mill to Grind it. 
Sieves to Drefs it, Yeaft and Salt to make it into 
Bread, and an Oven to Bake it j and yet all thefe 
things I did without, as (hall be obferv'd ; and 
yet the Corn was an ineftimable Comfort and Ad- 
vantage to me too. All this, as I faid, made e- 
very thing laborious and tedious to me, but that 
there was no help for, neither was my Time fo 
much Lofs to me, becaufe as I had divided it, 0, 
certain Part of it was every Day appointed to 

thdc 



[ HO 1 

thcfe Works ; and as I refolv'd to ufe none of the 
Corn for Bread till I had a greater Qtiantity by 
me, I had the next fix Months to apply my kit 
wholly by Labour and Invention to furnifh my felf 
with Utenfils proper for the performing all the 
Operations neceflary for the making the Corn 
(when I had it) fit for my ufe. 

But firft, I was to prepare more Land, for I 
had now Seed enough to fow above an Acre of 
Ground. Before I did this, I had a Weeks Work, 
at leafl, to make me a Spade, which M'hen it was 
done was but a forry one indeed, and very heavy, 
and requir'd double Labour to work with it ; 
however I went thro' that, and fow'd my Seed in 
two large flat Pieces of Ground, as near my 
Houfe as I could find them to my Mind, and 
tenc'd them in with a good Hedge, the Stakes of 
which were all cut of that Wood which I had fet 
before dnd knew it would grow, fo that in one 
Yearns time I knew I fhouldhave a quick or living 
Hedge, that would want but little Repair. This 
Work was npt (o little as to cake me up lefs 
than three Months, becaufe great Part of that 
time was of the v/et Seafon, when I could not go 
abroad. 

Within Doors, t/mt is, when it rained, and I 
could not go out, I found Employment on the tol-»- 
lowing Occaiions,* always obferving, that all the 
while I was at work I diverted my felf with ta'k- 
ing to my Parrot, and teachmg him to fpeak ; 
and I quickly learned him to know his own Name, 
and at laft to fpeak it out pretty loud, POLL, 
which was the firft Word I ever heard fpoken in 
the Ifland by any Mouth but my own. This 
therefore was not my Work, but an AfTiftant to my 
Work 'y for now, as I faid, I had a great Employ- 
^aiicnt upon my Hands, as follows, ('viz>,) I had 

long 



[ 141 1 

long fludy'd, by fome Means or other, to make 
my felf Tome Earthen Veflels, which indeed I 
wanted forely, but knew not where to come at 
them : However, conlidering the Heat of the Cli- 
mate, I did not doubt but if 1 could find out any 
fuch Clay, I might botch up fome fuch Pot, as 
might, being dry'd in the Sun, be hard enough, 
and llrong enough to bear handling, and to hold 
any Thing that was dry, and requir'd to be kept 
fo ; and as thiswasnecellary inthe preparing Corn^ 
Meal, &c. which was the Thing I was upon, I re- 
folv'd to make fome as large as I could, and fit 
only to ftand like Jarrs to hold what fliould be put 
into them. 

It would make the Reader pity me, or rather 
laugh at me, to tell how many awkward Ways I 
took to raife this Pafle, what odd mifhapen ugly 
Things I made, how many of them fell in, and how 
many fell out, the Clay not being ftiff enough to 
bear its own Weight ; how many crack'd by the 
over violent Heat of the Sun, being fet out too 
haflily i and how many fell in Pieces with only re- 
moving, as well before as after they were dry^d ; 
and in a Word, how after having laboured hard 
to find the Clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring 
it home and work it, I could not make above two 
large earthen ugly Things, I cannot aall them Jarrs, 
in about two Months Labour. 

However, as the Sun bak'd thefe two very dry 
and hard, I lifted them very gently up, and fet 
them down again in two great Wicker-Baskets, 
which I had made on purpofe for them, that they 
might not break ; and as between the Pot and the 
Basket there was a little room tofpare, I fluff'd it 
full of tlie Rice and Barley Straw, and thefe two 
Pot5 being to fland always drv, I thought would 

hold 



[ H^l 



hold my dry Corn, and perhaps the Meal, when 
the Corn was bruifed. 

Tho' I mifcarried (o much in my Defign for 
large Pots, yet I made feveral fmaller things with 
better Succefs,- fuch as little round Pots, flat Difhes, 
Pitchers and Pipkins, and any Things my Hand 
turn'd to, and the Heat of the Sun bak'd them 
ftrangely hard. 

But all this would not anfwer my End, which 
was to get an Earthen Pot to hold what was Li- 
quid, and bear the Fire, which none of thefe eould 
do. It happen^ after fome time, making a pretty 
large Fire for cooking my Meat, when I went to 
put it out after I had done with it, I found a bro- 
ken Piece of one of my Earthen-ware VefTels in the 
Fire, burnt as hard as a Stone, and red as a Tile. 
I was as agreeably furpriz'd to fee it, and faid to my 
felf, that certainly they might be made to burn 
whole, if they would burn broken. 

This fet me to ftudying how to order my 
Fire, fo as to make it burn me fome Pots. I had 
no Notion of a Kiln, fuch as the Potters burn 
in, or of glazing them with Lead, tho' I had feme 
Lead to do it with ; but I placM three large Pip- 
kins, and two or three Pots in a Pile one upon ano- 
ther, and placM my Fire-wood all round it, with 
a great Heap of Embers under them; 1 ply'd the 
Fire with frefh Fuel round the Out/ide, and upon 
the Top, till 1 faw the Pots in the Inlide red hot 
quite thro^ and obferv'd that they did not crack 
at all ; when I faw them clear red, I let them fland 
in that Heat about 5 or 6 Hours, till I found one 
of them, tho*itdid not crack, did melt or run,* for 
the Sand which was mixed with the Clay melted 
by the Violence of the Heat, and would have run 
into Glafsif I had gone one ; fo I (lacked my Fire 
gradually, till the Pots began to abate of the red 

Colour 



[ H3 ] 

Colour, and watching them all Night, that I might 
TiOt let the Fire abate too faft ; in the Morning I 
had three very good, I will not fay handfome Pjp- 
Uins ; and two other Earthen Pois, as hard burnt 
as cont'd be delir'dj and one of them perfedly 
glaz'd with the running of the Sand. 

Atter this Experiment, I need not fay that I 
wanted no fort oF Earthen Ware for my Ufe j but 
I muft needs fay, as to the Shapes of them, they 
were very inditlerent, as any one may fuppofe, 
when I had no way of making them ; but as the 
Children make Dirt-Pies, or as a Woman would 
make Pies that never learn^'d to raife Paiie. 

No Joy at a Thing of fo mean a Nature was 
ever equal to mine, when I found I had made an 
Earthen Pot that would bear the Fire ,* and I had 
hardly Patience to flay till they were cold, before 
I fet one upon the Fire again, with fome Water in 
ky to boil me fome Meat, which it did admirably 
well ; and with a Piece of a Kid I made fome very 
good Broth, though I wanted Oatmeal, and feve- 
ral other Ingredients requifite to make it fo good 
as I would have had it been. 

My next Concern v/as, to get me a Stone Mor- 
tar to (lamp or beat fome Corn in ; for as to the 
Mill, there was no thought at arriving to that Per- 
fection of Art, with one Pair of Hands. To fup~ 
ply this Want I was at a great Lofs ; for of all 
Trades in the World 1 was as perfectly unqualified 
for a Stone -Cutter, as for any whatever ,• neither 
had I any Tools to go about it with. I fpent many 
a Day to find out a great Stone big enough to cut 
hollow, and make fit for a Mortar, and could find 
none at all, except what was in the folid Rock, 
and which I had no way to dig or cut out ; nor in- 
deed were the Rocks in the Illand of Hardnefs fuf- 
ficient, but were all of a fandy crumbling Stone, 

which 



[ 144 3 

which neither would bear the Weight of a heavy 
Peftle, or would break the Corn without filling it 
with Sand ; (o after a great deal of Time loft in 
fearching for a Stone, 1 gave it over, and refolv'd 
to look out for a great Block of hard Wood, 
which I found indeed much eafier ; and getting one 
as big as I had Strength to ftir, I rounded it, and 
form'd it in the Outfide with my Axe and Hatchet, 
and then with the Help of Fire, and inhnite La- 
bour, made a hollow Place in it, as the Indians in 
Brajil make their Cannes, After this, I made a 
great heavy Peltle or Beater, of the Wood called 
the Iron-Wood, and this I prepared and laid by a- 
gainft I had my next Crop of Corn, when I pro- 
posed to myfelf to grind, or rather pound my Corn 
into Meal to make my Bread. 

My next Difficulty was to make a Sieve, or 
Searfe, to drefs my Meal, and to part it from the 
Bran and the Husk, without which I did not fee 
it poilible I could have any Bread. This was a 
moft difficult Thing, fo much as but to chink on ; 
for to be fure I had nothing like the neceffary 
Thing to make it i I mean fine thin Canvas, or 
Stuff to fearfe the Meal through. And here I was 
at a full Stop for many Months; nor did I real- 
ly know what to do i Linnen I had none left, but 
what was meet Rags ,• I had Goat's Hair, but nei- 
ther knew I how to weave it, or fpin it ; and had 
I known how, here were no Tools to work it 
with ; all the Remedy that I found for this, was. 
That at lafl I did remember I had among the 
Seamens Cloaths which were fav'd out of the Ship, 
fome Neckcloaths of Callicoe or Muflin ; and with 
fome Pieces of thefe I made three fmall Sieves, but 
proper enough for the Work ; and thus I made ^ii^t 
for fome Years ; how I did afterwards, I fhall fhew 
in its Place, 

The 



1 145 ] 

The baking Part was the next Thing to be 
coniider'dj and how Ifhould make Bread when I 
came to have Corn ; for dril I had no Ye ail ; as to 
that Part, as there was nofupplying the Want, To I 
did not concern myfelf much about it : But for an 

ven,I was indeed in great Pain ; at length 1 found 
out an Experiment for that alfo, which was this ,• 

1 made fome earthen Veflels very broad, but not 
deep ; that is to iayj about two Foot Diameter, 
and nor above nine Inches deep ; thefe I burnt in 
the Fire, as I had done the other, and Jaid them 
by ; and when I wanted to bake, I made a great 
Fire upon my Heath, which I had pav'd with fome 
fquare Tiles of my own making, and burning alfo; 
but I fhould not call them fquare. 

When the Fire-wood was burnt pretty much in- 
ta Embers, or live Coals, I drew them forward 
upon this Hearth,fo as to cover it all over,and there 
I let them lie, till the Hearth was very hot; then 
fweeping away all the Embers, I fet down my Loaf, 
or Loaves, and whelming down the earthen Pot 
upon them, drew the Embers all round the Out-fide 
of the Pot, to keep in, and add to the Heat ,• and 
thus, as well as in the beft Oven in the World, I 
bttk'd my Barley Loaves, and became in little Time 
a meer Paftry-Cook into the Bargain for I made 
rayfelf feveral Cakes of the Rice, and Puddings ; 
indeed I made no Pies, neither had I any Thing to 
put into them, fuppofing I had, except the FJeih 
either Fow.s or Goats. 

It need not be wonder'd at, if all thefe Things 
took me up moft Part of the third ifear of my A- 
bode here; for it is to be obferv'd. That in the In- 
tervals of thefe Things, I had my new Harveftand 
Husbandry to manage ; for I reap'd my Corn in its 
Seafon, and carried it Home as weii as I could, and 
laid it up in the Ear, in my large Baskets, till I had 



[ I4<5 ] 

Time to rub it out ; for I had no Floor to thrafh k 
on, or Inftrument to thrafh it with. 

And now indeed my Stock oF Corn increafing, 
I really wanted to build my Barns bigger : Lwanted 
a Place to lay it up in; for the Increafe cf the Corn 
now yielded me fo much, that I had of the Barley 
about twenty Bufhels, and of the Rice as much, 
or more ; infomu.ch, that now I refolv'd to begin 
to ufe it freely j for my Bread had been quite gone 
a great while ; alfo I rcfolv'd to fee what Qiianti- 
ty would be fufficient for me a whole Year, and to 
fow but once a Year. 

Upon the whole, 1 found that the forty Bufhels 
of Barley and Rice was much more than I could 
confume in a Year ; fo I refolv'd to fow juft the 
fame Qtiantity every Year that I fowed the lafl:, in 
hopes that fuch a Qiiahtity would fully provide me 
with Bread, &c. 

All the while thefe Things 'vere doing, you may 
by fure my Thoughts run many times upon the 
Profpeft of Land which I had feen from the other 
Side of the liland, and I ^vas not without fecret 
Wifhes that I were on Shore there, fancying the 
feeing the main Land, and in an inhabited Country. 
I might find fome Way or other to convey my 
felf farther, and perhaps at lad find fome Means 
of Efcape. 

But ail this while I made no Allowance for the 
Dangers of llich a Condition, and how I might fall 
into the Hands of Savages, and perhaps fuch as I 
might have Reafon to think far worfc than the Ly- 
ons and Tigers of Africa. That it I once came in- 
to their Power, I fhoi.'ld run a Hazard more than a 
Thouiand to One of being kii/d, and perhaps of be- 
ing eaten ; for I had heard that the People of the 
CiXrrihean Coafts were Cannibals or Man-eaters ; and 
1 tr^Cw by the Latitude, that I could not be farofi-" 
' .-- - - ^' - - ^- * ■ * •-• hrom 



C 147 ] 

ftpin that Shore. That fuppofe theyWere not Catitii- 
bals, yet that they might kiii me, as many Europeans 
who had fallen into their Hands had been ferv^'d, 
even when they had been ten or twenty together j 
much more I that was but one, and could make lit- 
tle or no Defence. All thefe Things, I fay, which I 
blight to have confider'd well of, and did caft up in 
my Thoughts afterwards, yet took up none of my 
Apprehenfions at firfl ; but my Head run mightily 
hpon the Thought of getting over to the Shore. 

Now I wifh'd for my Boy Xury, and the Long- 
Boat, with the Shoulder of Mutton-Sail, with 
which Ifail'd above a thoufand Miles on the CoafI: 
oi Africk; but this was in vain. Then I thought I 
would go and look at our Ship*s Boat, which, as I 
have faid, was blown up upon the Shore a great 
Way in the Storm, when we where firft cafl away* 
She lay almoft where flie did at firfl, but not quite ; 
and was turn'd by the Force ot the Waves and the 
Winds, almofl: Bottom upward, againfl a high 
Ridge of beachy rough Sand j but no Water a- 
bout her as before. 

If I had bad Hands to have refitted her, and to 
have launched her into the Water, the Boat would 
have done well enough, and I might have gone 
back into the BrafJs with her eafily enough ,* but 
I might have forefeen, that I could no more turn 
her, and fet her upright upon her Bottom, than I 
could remove the Ifland: However, I went to the 
Woods, and cut Levers and Rollers, and brought 
them to the Boat, refolvM to try what 1 could do> 
fuggefting to myfelf, that if I could but turn her 
down, I might eafily repair the Damage fhe had 
receiv'd, and fhe would be a very good Boat, and 
I might go to Sea in her very ealily. 

I fpar'd do Pains indeed, in this Piece of fruitlefs 
Toil, and fpcnt, I think, three or four Weeks a- 

L 2 bout 



[ H8 ] 

bout It ; at laft finding it impofTible to heave if up 
with my little Strength, I fell to digging away the 
Sand to undermine it, and fo to make it fall down, 
fetting Pieces ot Wood to thruft and guide it right 
in the Fall. 

But when I had done this, I was unable to ftir it 
up again, or to get under it, much lefs to move it 
forward towards the Water; fo I was fore 'd to give 
ic over ; and yer, though I gave over the Hopes of 
the Boat, my defire to venture over for the Main 
increafed, rather than decreafed, as the Means for 
it feem'd impoffible. 

This at leni^th put me upon thinking, Whether 
it was not poffible to make myfelf a Canoe, or Peria- 
guayi^c\^ a s the Natives of thofe Climates make,even 
without Tools, or, as I might (ay, without Hands, 
'viz,: of the Trunk of a great Tree ? This I not 
only thought pcffible, but eafy, andpleas'd my felf 
extreamly with the Thoughts of making it, and 
with my having much more Convenience for it than 
any of the Negroes or Indians \ but not at all conli- 
dering the particular Inconveniences which I lay 
under, more than the Indians did, 'viz.. Want of 
Hands to move it, when it was made, into the 
Water ', a Diilkulty much harder for me to fur- 
mount, than all the Confequences of want of 
Tools could be to them.- For what was it tome. 
That when 1 had chofena vafl Tree in the Woods, 
i might with much Trouble cut it down, if after 
I might be able with my Tools to hew and dub 
the Outtide into the proper Shape of a Boat, and 
burn or cut out the Infide to make it hollow, fo 
to make a Boat or it, if after all this, I muft leave 
It jiift there where I found it, and was not able to 
launch it into tl;c Water ? 

One would have thought I could not have had 
tile Jcall Rvfledtion upon my Mind ofmy Circum- 

ftance. 



[ H9 1 

{lance, while I was making this Boat ; but I fhould 
have immediately thought how I fhould get it into 
the Sea ; but my Thoughts were fo intent upon my 
Voyage over the Sea in it, that I never onceconfi- 
der'd how I fhould get it ofF of the Land ; and ic 
was really in its own Nature more eafy for me to 
guide it over forty fiv^e Miles of Sea, than about 
forty live Fathom of Land, where it lay, to let it 
afloat in the Water, 

I went to work upon this Boat the mofl like a 
Fool that ever Man did, who had any ofhisSenfes 
awake. I ple-as'd myfelf with the Defign, with- 
out determining whether I was ever able to under- 
take it j not but that the DiiTicultyof launching 
my Boat came often into my Head ; but I put a 
flop to my own Enquiries into it, by this foolifli 
Anfwer which I gave myfelf, Let's fir ft maks it. Til 
warrant rii find fome way or ether to get it almg, when 
'tis done. 

This was a mofl prepoflerous Method ; but the 
Eagernefs of my Fancy prevail'd, and to work I 
went, I fell'da Cedar Tree: I queflion much 
whether 60/0;;^.-;/ ever had fuch a one for the Build- 
ing of the Temple at Jerufalem. Ic was five Foot 
ten Inches Diameter at the lower Part next the 
Stump, and four Foot eleven Inches Diameter at 
the End of twenty two Foot, after which it lef- 
fen'd for a while, and then parted into Branches : 
It was not without infinite Labour that I fell'd 
this Tree : I was twenty Days hacking and hew- 
ing at it at the Bottom. I was fourteen more get' 
ting the Branches and Limbs, and a vafl fpread- 
ing Head of it cut off, which I hack'd and hev^'d 
through with Axe and Hatchet, and inexpreffiblc 
Labour : after this, it cofl me a Month to fhape 
it, and dub it to a Proportion, and to fomething 
like the Bottom of a Boat, that it might fwlm up- 

L 3 right 



[ 150 ] 

right as It ought to do. It coft me near three 
Months more to clear the In fide, and work it out 
fo, as to make an exad Boat oF it : This I did in- 
deed withoLit Fire, by meet Mallet and Chiilel, and 
by the dint of hard Labour, till I had brought it 
to be a very handfome Periaguay and big enough to 
h we carried fix and twenty Men, andconfequently 
big enough to have carried me and all my Cargo. 

When I had gone through this Work, I was ex- 
tremely delighted with it. The Boat was really 
much bigger then I e\"cr faw a Cayioe, or Periaguay 
that was made of one Tree, in my Life. Many a 
weary Stroke it had cofl, you may be fure,* and 
there remained nothing but to get it into the Wa- 
ter; and had! gotten it into the Water, I make no 
queftion, but I fbould have begun the^maddeft Voy- 
age, and the moil unlikely to be performed, that 
ever was undertaken. 

But all my Devices to get it into the Water 
fail'd me, though they coft me infinite Labour too. 
It lay about one hundred Yards from the Water, 
and not mo"e : But the iird Inconvenience v/as, it 
was up Hill towards the Creek; well, to take a- 
way this Difcouragement, I refolv'd to dig into 
the Surface of the Earth, and fo make a Declivity: 
This I begun, and it cofl m.ea prodigious deal of 
Pains; but who grudge Pains, that have their 
Deliverance in View? But when this work'd 
through, and this DifEculry manag'd, it was flill 
much at one,; fori could no more flir the C/z/^oe, 
than I could.' the other Boar. 

Then I meafur'd the Diflance of Ground, and 
refolv'dto cut a Dock, or Canal, to bring the Wa- 
ter up to U\c Carney feeing I could not bring the 
Came down to the Water: Well, I began this 
Work, and when I began to enter into it, and cal- 
culate how deep it was to be dug, how broad, 

who 



[ 151] 

how the Stuff to be thrown out, I found, that by 
the Number of Hands I had, being none but my 
own, it muft have been ten or twelve Years be- 
fore I fliould have gone through with it ; for the 
Shore lay high, fo tliat at the upper End it muft 
have been at lead twenty Foot deep ; fo at length, 
tho' with great Reluctancy, I gave this Attempt 
over alfo. 

Thisgriev'dme heartily, and now I.faw, tho* 
too late, the Folly of beginning a Work before we 
count the Coft, and before we judge rightly of 
our own Strength to go through with it. 

In the middle of this Work, 1 finifh^dmy fourth 
Year in this Place, and kept my Anniv^erfary with 
the fame Devotion, and with as much Comfort as 
ever before ; for by a conftant Study, and ferious 
Apph'cation of the Word of God, and by the Af- 
fiifance of his Grace, I gain'd a different Know- 
ledge from what I had before. I entertain'd diffe- 
rent Notions of Things. I looked now upon the 
World as a Thing remote, which I had nothing to 
do with, no Expedation from, and indeed no De- 
lires about : In a Word, I had nothing indeed to 
do with it, nor was everlike to have ; fo I thought 
it look'd as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter, 
viz.. as a Place I had lived in, but was come out of 
it ; and well might I fay, as Father Abrahain to 
Dives, Eenveen me and thee is a great Gulph fixed. 

In the firlt Place, I was removed from all the 
Wickednefs of the World here : I had neither the 
Lnfl of the Flefi, the Lufl of the Eye, or the Pride of 
Life. I had nothing to covet ; for I had all that I 
was now capable of enjoying : I was Lord of the 
whole Manor, or if I pleas'd, I might call myfelf 
King, or Emperor over the whole Country, which 
I had Poffeflion of There were no Rivals : I had 
no Competitor, none to difpute Sovereignty or 
L 4 Cpm- 



r 151] 

Command with me. I might have rais'd Ship 
Loadings of Corn ; but I had no ufe for it i fo I 
let as little grow as I thought enough for my Oc- 
cafion. I had Tortoife or Turtles enough ; but 
now and then one was as much as I could put to 
any ufe. I had Timber enough to have built a 
Fleet of Ships. I had Grapes enough to have 
made Wine, or to havecur'd into Raifins, to have 
loaded that Fleet when they had been built. 

But all I could make ufe of, was, All tliat was 
valuable. I had enough to eat, and to fupply my 
Wants ; and, what was all the reft to me ? If I 
kill'd more Flefli than I could eat, the Dog muft 
eat it, or the Vermin. If I fow*d more Corn than 
I could eat, it muft be fpoil'd. The Trees that I 
Cut down, were lying to rot on the Ground : I 
could ma.ke no more ufe of them than for Few^l, 
and that I had no Occaiion for, but to drefs my 
Food. 

In a Word, The Nature and Experience of 
Things dictated to me upon jr.fl Reflection, that 
all the good Things of this World, are no farther 
good to us, than they are for our Ufe ,- and that 
whatever we may heap up indeed to give others, 
we enjoy juft as much as we can ufe, and no more. 
The moft covetous griping Mifer in the World 
would Iiave been cured of the Vice of Covetoufnefs, 
if he had been in my Cafe; for I poilelled infinitely 
more than I knew what to do with. I had no room 
for Dcfire, except it was of: Things which I had 
not, and ihcy were but Trifle^, though indeed of 
great Ufe to me. I had, as 1 huitccl before, a Par- 
cel of Money, as well Gold as Silver, about thir- 
ty fix Pounds Sterling : Alas ! there thcnafty forty 
ufelcfs Stutl* lay h I had no manner of Bufinefs 
ior it ; and I often thought with myfelf, that I 
would have given a Handful of it for a Grofs of 

Tobacco- 



C m ] 

Tobacco-Plpes, or for a Hand-Mill to grind my 
Corn ', nay, I wocld have given it all for Sixpenny- 
worth of Turnij) and Carrot Seed out oiEnglandy or 
for a Handful of Peafe and Beansy and a Bottle of 
Ink : As it ivasy I had not the leaft Advantage by 
it, or Benefit from it ; but there it lay in a Draw- 
er, and grew mouldy with the Damp of the Cave 
in the wet Seafon ; and if I had had the Drawer 
full of Diamonds, it had been the fame Cafe ; and 
they had been of no manner of Value to me, be- 
caufe oi no Ufe. 

I had now brought my State of Life to be much 
eafier in it felf than it was at £rfl:, and much ea- 
fier to my Mind, as well as to my Body. I fre* 
quently fat down to my Meat with Thankfulnefs, 
and admired the Hand of God's Providence, which 
had thus fpread my^ Table in the Wildernefs. I 
learned to look up more on the bright Side of my 
Condition, and jefs upon the dark Side; and to 
confider what I enjoy'd, rather than what I want- 
ed ; and this gave me fometimes fuch fecret Com- 
forts, that I cannot exprefs them j and which I 
take Notice of here, to put thofe difcontented 
People in Mind of it, who cannot enjoy comforta- 
bly what God has ^^lYtn them ; becaufe they fee, 
and covet fomething that he has not given them : 
All our Difcon tents about what we want, appea- 
red to me, to fpring from the want of Thankful- 
npfs for what we have. 

Another Refledion was of great Ufe to me, and 
doubtlefs would be fo to any one that fhould fall 
into fuch Diflrefs as mine was ; and this was, to 
compare my prefent Condition with what 1 at firft 
expeded it fhould be ; nay, with what it would 
certainly have been, if the good Providence of 
God had not wonderfully ordered the Ship to be 
caft up nearer to the Shore, where I not only could 

come 



[ 154 ] 

come at her, but could bring what I got out of 
hfer to the Shore, for my lleh"ef and Comfort ; 
without which, I had wanted for Tools to work, 
Weapons for Defence, pr Gun-Powder and Shot 
for getting my Food. 

iTpent whole Hours, I may fay, whole Days, in 
reprefenting to my felf in the mod lively Colours, 
how I muft have aded, if I had got nothing out 
of the Ship ; how I could not have fo much as 
got any Food, except Fifli and Turtles ; and that 
as it was long before 1 found any of them, I muft 
have perifh'd firft : That 1 fhpuld have liv'd, if I 
had not perifli^d, like a meer Savage : That i^ I 
had kill'd a Goat, or a Fowl, by any Contrivance, 
I had no way to flea or open them^ or part the Flefh 
from the Skin and the Bowels, or to cut if up ;' 
but muft gnaw it with my Teeth, and pull it with 
my Claws like a Beaft. 

Thefe Refledions made me very fenfible of the 
Goodnefs of Providence to me, and very thankful 
for my prefent^ondition, with all its Hardfhips 
ind Misfortunes : And this Part alfo I cannot but 
recommend to the Refieclion of thofe, who are apt 
;n their Mifery, to fay, Is any AffliBion like mine! 
Let them confider. Plow much worfe the Cafes of 
ibme People are, and their Cafe might have been, 
jf Providence had thought fit. 

I had another Reflection which affifled me alfo 
10 comfort my Mind with Hopes; and this was, 
4,:omparing my prefent Condition with what I had 
cicierv'd, and had therefore Rcafon to exped fi^om 
iht Hand of Providence. IC had liv'd a dreadful 
Life,per[c6llydeftitute of the Knowledge and Fear 
of God: 1 haid been well inftructed by Father and 
^.lother I neither had they been wanting to me, in 
their eUl'ly Endeavours, to mfufe a religious Awe 
o:"Gddiilto my Mind, a Senfe of my Duty, and 

of 



[ 155 ] 

pf what the Nature and End of my Being requir'a 
of me. But alas 1 falling early into the Sea-faring 
Life, which of all the Lives is the moft deftitute 
of the Fear of God, though his Terrors are al- 
ways before them ; I fay, fahing early into the 
Sea-faring Life, and into Sea-faring Company, all 
that little Senfe of Religion which I had entertain- 
ed, was laughM out of me by my Mefs-Mates, by 
a hardened defpidng of Dangers, and the Views of 
Death, which grew habitual to me, by my long 
Abfencefrom all manner of Opportunities to con- 
yerfe with any Thing but what was like my felf, 
or to hear any Thing that was good, or tended 
towards it. 

So void was I of every Thing that was good , or 
of the leaf]: Senf<" of what I was, or was to be, 
that in the greatcH Deliverances I enjoy 'd, fuch 
as my Efcape from Sal/ee ; my being taken up by 
the Pormgueje Mafterof the Ship ,' my being plant- 
ed fo well iw the Brajils ; my receiving the Cargo 
from England, and the like ; I never had once the 
Word, I'hank God, fo much as on my Mind, or in 
my Month, nor in the greateft Diftrefs, had I fo 
much as a Thought to pray to him, or fomuch as 
to fay, Lord have Mercy upon me ; no nor to men- 
tion the Name of God, unlefsit was to fwear by, 
and blafphcme ic. 

1 had terrible Refledions upon my Mind for 
many Months, as I have already obferv'd, on the 
account of my wicked and hardned Life paflj and 
when I look'd about me, andconfider'd what parti- 
cular Providences had attended me fince my com- 
ing into this Place, and how God had dealt boun- 
tifully with me ; had not only punifh'd me lefs than 
my Liiquity had deferv'd, but had fo plentifully pro- 
vided for me^ this gave me great Hopes that my 

Repen- 



[ 156 ] 

Repentance was accepted, and that God had yet 
Mercy in ftore for me. 

With thefe Refledlions I work'd my Mnd up, 
not only to Refignation to the Will of God in the 
prefent Difpofitionof my Circumftances ; but even 
toa fincere Thankfulnefs for my Condition; and that 
I, who was yet a living Man, ought not to com- 
plain, feeing I had not the due Punifliment of my 
Sins ; that I enjoy 'd fo many Mercies which I had 
no reafon to have expe<5ted in that Place ; that I 
ought nevermore to repine at my Condition, but to 
rejoyce, and to give daily Thanks for that daily 
Br€ad,vvhich nothing buta Crowd of Wonders could 
have brought. That I ought to confider I hzd been 
fed even by a Miracle, even as great as that of feed- 
iug Elijah by Ravens j nay, by a long Series of Mi- 
racles, and that I could hardly havenam'da P.ace 
in the unhabitable part of the World where I could 
have been caft more to my Advantage : A Place, 
where as I had no Society, which was my AfHi- 
aion on one hand, fo I found no ravenous Beafls, 
no furious Wolves or Tygers to threaten my Life, 
no venomous or poifonous Creatures, which I might 
feed on to my Hurt, no Savages to murder and de- 
vour me. 

In a word, as my Life was a Life of Sorrow, one 
way, fo it was a Life of Mercy, another,- and I 
wanted nothing to make it a Life of Comfort, but 
to be able to make my Senfe of God's Goodnefs 
to me, and Care over me in this Condition, be my 
daily Confolation ; and after 1 did make a juR Im- 
provement of thefe Things, I went away and was 
no more fad. 

I had now been here fo long, that many Things 
which I brought on Shore for my Help, were ei- 
ther quite gone, or very much wafted and near 

My 



['57] 

My Ink, as I obferv'd, had been gone for Tome 
time, all but a very little, which I eek*d out with 
Water a little and a little, till it was fopaleitfcarce 
left any Appearance of black upon the Paper : As 
long as it lafted, I made ufe of it to minute down 
the Days of the Month on which any remarkable 
Thing happened to me ; and firft, by cafting up 
Times paft, I remember that there was a ftrange 
Concurrence of Days in the various Providences 
which befel me ; and which, if I had been fuperfti- 
tioufly incin'd to obferve Days as Fatal or Fortu- 
nate, I might have had Reafon to have looked upon 
with a great deal ofCnriofity. 

Firft, I had obferv'd, that the fame Day that I 
broke away from my Father and my Friends, and 
run away to Hul/y in order to go to Sea ,• the fame 
Day afterwards I was taken by the Sal/ee Man of 
War, and made a Slave. 

The fame Day of the Year that I efcap'd out of 
the Wreck of that Ship in Tarmouth Roads, that 
fame Day- Year afterwards I made my Efcape from 
Salkein the Boat. 

The fame Day of the Year I was born on, (viz,,) 
the 30th o^ September y the fame Day I had my Life 
fo miraculoufly fav'd 26 Years after, when I was 
caft on Shore on this Ifland ; fo that my wicked 
Life and my folirary Life began both on a Day. 

The next Thing to my Ink's being wafted, was 
that of my Bread, I mean the Biskec'which I 
brought out of the Ship : This I had ^rusbanded to 
the laft Degree, allowing my felfbut one Cake of 
Bread a Day for above a Year, and yet I was quite 
without Bread for near a Year before I got any 
Corn of my own ,* and great Reafon I had to be 
thankhil that I had any at ail, the getting it being, 
as has been already obferv'd, next to miraculous. 

My 



[ 158 ] 

tvly Cloaths began to decay too mightily : As td 
Linnen, I had had none a good while, except feme 
cheqiier'd Shirts which I found in the Chefls of the 
other Seamen, and which I carefully preff irv'd, be- 
caufe many times I could bear no other Cloaths on 
but a Shirt ; and it was a very great Help to me 
that I had among all the Mens Cloaths of the Ship 
almoft three dozen of Shirts. There were alfo fe- 
veral thick Watch-Coats of the Seamens, which 
were left indeed, but they were too hot to wear ; 
and tho' it is true, that the Weather was fo vio- 
lent hot that there was no need of Cloaths, yet I 
could not go quite naked j no, tho' I had been in- 
clined to it, which I was not, nor could not abide 
the Thoughts of it, tho' I was all alone. 

The Reafon why I could not go quite naked^ 
was, I could not bear the Heat of the Sun (o 
well when quite naked, as with feme Cloaths on ; 
nay, the very Heat frequently blifter'd my Skin ,* 
whereas with a Shirt on, the Air it felf made fome 
Motion, and whiflling under that Shirt was twofold 
cooler than without it : No more could I ever bring 
myfelf to go out in the Heat of the Sun without a 
Cap or a Hat; the Heat of the Sun beating with 
fuch Violence as it does in that Place, would give 
me the Head-ach prefcntly, by darting fo diredly 
on my Head, without a Cap or Hat on ; fo that I 
could not bear it ; whereas, if I put on my Hat, it 
would prefently go away. 

Upon thefe Views I began to confider about put- 
ting the few Rags I had, which I call'd Cloaths^ 
into fome Order : I had worn out all the Waft- 
coats I had, and my Bufinefs was now to try if I 
could not make Jackets out of the great Watch- 
Coats which I had by me, and with fuch other 
Materials as I had j fo I ft:t to work a Tayloring, 
or rather indeed a Botching, for I made moft 

piteous 



.[ ^59 ] 

piteous Work of it. However, I made fliifr to 
make two or three new Waftcoats, which I hoped 
would ferve me a great while -, as for Breeches or 
Drawers, I made but a very forry fhift indeed, till 
afterward. 

I have mentioned that I faved the Skins of all 
the Creatures that I kill'd, I mean four-footed ones, 
and I had hung them up flretch'd out with Sticks 
in the Sun, by which Means fome of them were fo 
dry and hard that they were fit for little, but others 
it feems were very ufeful. The firfl thing I made 
of thefe was a great Cap for my Head, with the 
Hair on the Outlide to fiioor off the Rain; and 
this I perform'd fo well, that after this I made me 
a Suit of Cloaths wholly of thefe Skins, that is to 
fay, a Waftcoat, and Breeches open at Knees, and 
both loofe, for they were rather wanting to ke ^p 
me cool than to keep me warm, I muft not omit 
to acknowledge that they were wretchedly made ; 
for if I was a bad Carpenter^ I was a worfe Taylor. 
However, they were fuch as I made very good 
fhift with ; and when I was Abroad, if it happened 
to rain, the Hair of my Waftcoat and Cap being 
outermoft, I was kept very dry. 

After this I fpent a great deal of Time and Pains 
to make me an Umbrella ; I was indeed in great 
want of one, and had a great Mind to make one : 
I had feen them made in the Brafils^ where they 
are very ufeful in the great Heats v/hich are there: 
And I felt the Heats every jot as great here, and 
greater too, being nearer the Equinox; befides, as 
I was obliged to be much Abroad, it was a moil 
ufeful Thing to me, as well for the Rains as the 
Heats. I took a Wor'd of Pains at it, and was a 
great while before ! could make any Thing likely to 
h6ld ; nay, after I thought I had'hit the Way, I 
fpoil'd 2 or 3 before I made one to my Mind; but 

at 



[ i(5o ] 

at lafl I made one that anfwer^d indifferently well f 
The main Difficulty I found was to make it to let 
down. I could make it to fpread, but iVit did not 
Jet down too, and drawn in, it was not portable for 
me any Way but juft over my Head, which would 
not do. However, at lail, as I faid, 1 made one 
to anfwer, andcover'dit with Skins, the Hair up- 
wards, fo that it caft off the Rains like a Pent- 
houfe, and kept off the Sun fo effedually, that I 
could walk out in the hotteft of the Weather with 
greater Advantage than I could before in the cool- 
eft, and when I had no need of it, could clofe it and 
carry it under my Arm. 

Thus I liv'd mighty comfortably, my Mind be- 
ing entirely compofed by refigning to the Will of 
God, and throwing my lelf wholly upon the Di[- 
pofal of his Providence. This made my Life bet- 
ter than fociable ; for when I began to regret the 
want of Converfation, I would ask my felf whether 
thus converilng mutually with my own Thoughts, 
and, as I hope I may fay, with even God himfelf 
by Ejaculations, was not better than the utmoft 
Eijjoyment of human Society in the World ? 

I cannot fay that after this, for five Years, any 
extraordinary Thing happened to me, but I liv'd oa 
in the fame Conrfe, in the fame Poflure and Place, 
juftas before: the chief Things I was employed in^ 
befides my yearly Labour of planting my Barley and 
Rice, and curing my Raifins, of both which I al- 
ways kept up juft enough to have fufficient Stock 
of one Year's Provihons beforehand ; I fay, befides 
this yearly Labour, and my daily Labour of going 
out with my Gun, 1 had one Labour to make me a 
Carioe, which at lafl I finifh'd : So that by diging 
a Canal to it of fix Foot wide, and four Foot 
deep, I brought it into the Creek, almofl: half a 
Mile. As for the firft, which was fa vafily bigj 



C i^i ] 

ds I nlade it without confidering before-hand, as I 
dught to do, how I (hoLild be able to launch it ; (o 
never being able to bring it to the Water, or bring 
the Water to it, I wasobjig'd to let it lye where it 
was, as a Alemorandum to teach me to be wifer 
next Time : Indeed, the next Time, tho^ I could 
not get a Tree proper for it, and in a Place where 
I could not get the Water to it, at any lefs Diftance 
than as I have faid, near half a Mile ; yet as I faw 
it was practicable at laft, I never gave it over; and 
though I was near two Years about it, yet I never 
grutch'd nly Labour, in Hopes of having a Boat 
to go off to Sea arlaft. 

However, though my little Periagua v^sls R- 
nifti'd, yet the Size of it was not at ail anfwerable 
to the Defign which I had in View, when I made 
the firft; I mean, Of venturing over to the Terra 
Firma, where it was above forty Miles broad ; ac- 
cordingly, the Smallnefs of my Boat alTifted to put 
ian End to that Defigti, and now I thought no more 
of it : But as I had a Boat, my next Deiign was to 
make a Tour round the Kland ,• for as I had been on 
the other Side, in one Place, croffing as I have al- 
ready defcrib'd it over the Land ; {o the Difcove- 
ries I made in that little Journey, made me very ea- 
ger to fee other Parts of the Coaft, and now I had 
a Boat, I thought of nothing but failing round the 
Ifland. 

For this Purpofe, that I might do every Thmg, 
with Difcretion atid Confideration, I fitted up a lit- 
tle Mail to my Boat, and made a Sail to it out of 
fome of the Pieces of the Ship's Sail which lay in. 
Store, and of which I had a great Stock by me. 

Having fitted my Maft and Sail, and try'd the 
Boat, 1 found fhe would fail very well; Then I 
made little Lockers, or Boxes, at either End of my 
Boat, to put Provifions, Neceflaries and Ammuni- 

M tion. 



[ i6i ] 

tion, &c. into, to be kept dry, either from Rain, or 
the Sprye ot the Sea; and a little long hollow Place 
I cut in the Iniide of the Eoat, where Icould lay 
my Gun, making a Flap to hang down over it to 
keep it dry. 

1 fix*d my Umbrella alfo in a Step at the Stern, 
like a Maft, to (land over my Head, and keep the 
Heat of the Sun ofi" of me like an Auning ; and 
thus I every now and then took a little Voyage 
upon the Sea, but never \\ent far out, nor far from 
the little Creek ; but at lail: being eagar to view 
the Circumference of my little Kingdom, Irefolv'd 
upon my Tour, and accordingly I vjduaird my Ship 
for the Voyage, putting in two Dozen of my Loaves 
(Cakes I fliould rather call them) of Barley Bread, 
an earthen Pot full of parch'd Rice, a Food I eat 
a great deal of, a little Bottle of Rum, half a 
Goat, and Powder and Shot for killing more, and 
two large Watch-coats, of thofe which, as I men- 
tion d before, I had fav^d out of the Seamen's 
Chelbi thefe I took, one to lye upon, and theo-^ 
ther to cover me in the Night. 

It was the iixth of Ncvembeyy in the fixth Year 
of ray Reign, or my Captivity, which you pleafe. 
That I fat out on this Voyage, and I found it much 
longer than I expeded ; for though the IQand itfelf 
was not very large, yet when I came to the Eaft 
Side of It, 1 found a great Ledge of RocIls lye out 
above two Leagues into the Sea, fome above Wa- 
ter, fome under it; and beyond that, a Shoal of 
Sand, lying dry half a League more; fo that I was 
oblig'd to go a great Way out to Sea to double the 
Point. 

When firfl I difcover'd them, I was going to give 
over my Enterprize, and come back again, not 
knowing how far it might oblige me to go out to 
Si-a; and above all, doubting how I (liould get back 

again ; 



again ; fo r came to an Anchor ; for I had made 
me a kind of an Anchor ,• with a Piece of a broken 
Graplin, which r got out of the Ship. 

Having fcciu'd my Boat, I took my Gun, aiad 
went on Shor-, climbing up upon a Hil), which 
feem'd to over-look that Point, where I faw the 
full Extent of it, and refolv'd to venture. 

In my viewing the Sea from that Hill where I 
ftood, I perceived a flrong, and indeed, a moil fu- 
rious Current, which run to the Ea/i, and even 
came clofe to the Point ,• and I took the more No- 
tice of it, becaufe I faw there might be fome Dan- 
ger, that when I came into it, I might be carry 'd 
out to Sea by the Strength of it, and not be able 
to make the Ifland again ; and indeed, had I not 
gotten firfl: up upon this Hill, I believe it would 
have been fo,- for there w^as the fame Current on 
the other Side the Idand, only, that itfetoffac 
a farther Diftance ; and I faw there was a ftrong 
Eddy under the Shore ,* fo I had nothing to do but 
to get in out of the firft Current, and I Sould pre- 
fently be in an Eddy. 

I lay here, however, two Days,- becaufe the 
Wind blowing pretty frefh at E. S, E. and that 
being juft contrary to the faid Current, made a 
great Breach of the Sea upon the Point ; fo that it 
was not fafe for me to keep too clofe to the Shore 
for the Breach, not to go too far off becaufe of 
the Stream. 

The third Day in the Morning, the Wind ha- 
ving abated over Night, the Sea was calm, and I 
ventur'd ; but I am a warning Piece again to all 
rafh and ignorant Pilots ; for no fooner was I come 
to the Point, when even I was not my Boat's 
Length from the Shore, but I found my fe If in a 
great Depth of Water, and a Current like the Sluice 
of a Mill : U carry'd my Boat a long with it 

M 2 with 



r i'54 ] 

With fuch Violence, that all I could do, could 
not keep her To much as on the Edge of it -, but I 
found k hurry 'd me farther and farther out from 
the Eddy, which was on my Left Hand. There 
was no Wind flirring to help me, and ail I could 
do with my Paddles fignify'd nothing ; and now I 
began to givG myfelf over for lofl ; for as the Cur- 
rent was on both Sides the Ifland, I knew in afew 
Leaguts Diftance they muft joyn again, and then 
I was irrecoverably gone ; nor did 1 fee any PolH- 
bility ot avoiding it; fo that I had no Profpedt be- 
fore me but of Periling; not by the Sea, for that 
was calm enoi gh, but of ftarving for Hunger. I 
had indeed found a Tortoife on the Shore, as big 
almoft as I could Lfr, and had tofs'd it into the 
Boat ; and i had a great Jar of frcfli Water, that is 
to fay, one of my Earthen Pots; but what was all 
this to being driven into the vafl Ocean, where to 
be fure, there was no Shore, no main Land, cri- 
Hand, for a thoufand Leagues at leaf!:. 

And now I law how eafy it was for the Provi- 
dence of God to make the mod miferable Condi- 
tion Mankind could be in. u^orfe. Now I look'd 
back upon my defolate folitar) Itland, as the moft 
pleafant Place in the World, and all the Happinefs 
my Heart could wilh for, was to be but there a- 
gain. I firctch'd out my Hands to it with eager 
\Viflies. O happy Defart, faidl, I fhall never fee 
t' e more/ O miferable Creature, faid I, whi- 
tlier am I going 1 Then I reproached my felf with 
my unthankful Temper, and how I had repin'd at 
my foiatary Condition j and nDw what would I givQ 
tj be on Si.ofc ihcre again. Thus we never fee 
the true S.aa- of our Condition, till i: is illuflrated 
,to us by its Contraries i nor know how to value 
what we erjoy, but by the want of it. It is fcarce 
poflible to imagine the Conflernaiion I v^'as now in, 

bang 



[ 1^5 ] 

being driven from my beloved Ifland (for fo it ap- 
peared to me now to be) into the wide Ocean, al- 
mofl: two Leagues, and in the utmoit Defpair of: 
ever recovering it again. However, I work'd hard, 
till indeed my Strength was almo/l exhaufled, and 
kept my Boat as much to the Northward, that is, 
towards the Side of the Current which the Eddy 
lay on, as poflibly I could ^ when about Noon, as 
the Sun pafs'd the Meridian, I thought I felt a lit- 
tle Breeze of Wind in my Face, fpringing up from 
the S. S. E. This cheated my Heart a little, and 
cfpecially when in about half an Hour more, it 
blew a pretty fmall gentle Gale. By this Time I 
was gotten at a frightful Didance from the IQand, 
and had the lead: Cloud or hazey Weather in cerven'd, 
1 had been undone another Way too ; for I had no 
Compafs on Board, and lliould never have known 
how to have fleered (towards the IQand, if I had 
but once loft Sight of it ; bit the Weather conti- 
nuing clear, I apply 'd myfelf to get up my Mail 
again, fpread my Sail, {landing away to the North 
as much as poflTible, to get out of the Current. 

Juft as I had fet my Maft and Sail, and the Boat 
began to flretch away, I faw even by the Clearnefs 
of the Water, fome Alteration of the Current was: 
near; for where the Current was fo ftrong, the 
Water was foul ,• but perceiving the Water clear, I 
found the Current abate, and prefently I found to 
the Eafi, at about half a Mile, a Breach of the 
Sea upon fome Rocks j thefe Rocks I found caus'd 
the Current to part again, and as the main Strefs 
of it ran away more Southerly^ leaving the Rocks 
to the North'Eafi ; fo the other returned by the Re- 
pulfe of the Rocks, and made a ftrong Eddy, which 
ran back again to the North-Wefl with a very 
^larp Scream. 

M 5 They 



[ 166 ] 

They who know what it is to have a Reprive 
brought to them upon the Ladder, or to be refcu- 
ed from Thieves juft going to murder them, or who 
have been in Tuch like Extremities, may guefs what 
my prefcnt Surprize of Joy was, and how gladly I 
put my Boat into the Scream of this Eddy, and the 
Wind alfo frefhning, how gladly I fpread my Sail 
to it, running chearfuily before the VVind^and with 
a ftrong Tide or Eddy under Foot. 

This Eddy carryM me about a League in my 
Way back again diredly towards the liland, but 
about two Leagues more to the Northward than 
the Current which carried me away at firfl ; fo 
that when I came near the Ifland, I found my felf 
open to the Northern Shore of it, that is to fay, 
the other End of the Illand oppofite to that which 
I went out from. 

When I had made fomething more than a League 
of W\iy by the Help of this Current or Eddy, I 
found It was fpent and ferv'd me no farther. How- 
ever, I found that being between the two great 
Currents, ('viz.) that on the South Side, which 
had hurried me away, and that on the North, 
which lay about a League on the other Side : I fay, 
between thefe two, in the Wake of the Ifland, I 
found the Water at lealT; ftill and running no Way ; 
and having ftiii a Breeze of Wind fair for me, I 
kept on llecring diredly for the Ifland, tho' not 
making fuch frefli Way as I did before. 

About four a Clock in the Evening, being then 
within about a League of the Ifland, I found the 
Point of the Rocks which occafioned this Difafter, 
flrerchingout, as \s defcribed before, to the South- 
ward, andcafting off the Current more Southward- 
ly, had of Courle made another Eddy to the North, 
and this 1 found very flrong, but not diredly fetting 
the Way my Courle lay, which was due Weff, but 

almoft 



[ 1^7 ] . 

almoft full North. However, having a frcfh Gale, 
I fttetcli'd a-crofs this Eddy lla«iiting North-weft, 
and in about an Hour came within about a Mile 
of the Shore, where it being fmooth Water, I foon 
got to Land. 

When I was on Shore I fell on my Knees and 
gav,e God Thanks for my Deliverance, refolving 
to lay afideali Thoughts of my Deliverance by my 
Boat ; and refreflung myfelf with fuch Things as 
I had, I brought my Boat clofe to the Shore in a 
little Cove that I had fpy'd under fome Trees, and 
lay'd me down to ileep, being quite fpent with the 
Labour and Fatigue of the Voyage. 

I was now at a great Lofs which way to get 
Home with my Boat : I had run fo much Hazard, 
and knew too much the Cafe to think of attempt- 
ing it by the Way I went out j and what might be 
at the other Side (I mean the Weft Side) I knew 
not, nor had I any Mind to run any more Ventures ; 
fo I only refolved in the Morning to make my Way 
Weft ward along the Shore, and to fee if there was 
no Creek where I might lay up my Frigate in Safe- 
ty, fo as to have her again if I wanted her. In about 
three Mile, or thereabout, coafting the Shore, I 
pame to a very good Inlet or Bay about a Mile over, 
which narrowed till it came to a very little Rivulet 
or Brook, where I found a very convenient Harbour 
for my Boat, and where Oie lay as if flie had been 
in a little Dock made on Purpofe for her. Here I 
put in, and having ftow'd my Boat very fafe, I went 
on Sliore to look about me, and fee where I was. 

I foon found I had but little pafs'dby the Place 
where I had been before, when I travelled on Foot 
to that Shore ; fo taking nothing out of my Boat, 
but my Gun and my Umbrella, for it was ex- 
ceeding hot, I began my Marclj. The Way was 
comfortable enough atter fuch a. Voyage as I had 

M 4 been 



[ 1^8 ] 

been upon, and I reach'd my old Bo^ver in the 
Evening, where I found every Thing (landing as I 
left it ; for I always kept it in good Order, being, 
as I faid before, my Country- Hon le. 

I got over the Fence, and laid me down in the 
Saade to reft my Limbs, for I was very weary, and 
fedafleep : But judge you, i^ you ciin, that read 
my Story, what a Surpnze I muft be in, when I 
was awak'd out of my Sleep by a Voice calling me 
by my Name feveral times, Robin, Robhi, Robin 
Crufcey poor Rcbin Crufoe ! where are you Robin 
Crujoe ? Where are you ? Where have you been ? 

I was {o dead aflecp at firft, being fatigu'd wi^h 
rowing, or padling, as it is call'd, the firit Part 
of the Day, and with walking the latter Part, 
thcLt I did not wake thoroughly ; but dozing be- 
tween deeping and waking, thought 1 dream'd 
that fome body fpoke to me : But as the Voice 
continu'd to repeat, Robin Cnifoe, Robin Crufoe^ at 
laii: I began to wake more perfectly, and was at 
Irril dreadfully frighted, and darted up in the ut- 
moft Gonfternation : But no fooner were my Eyes 
open, then I faw my Poll fitting on the Top. of the 
Hedge, and immediately knew that it was he that 
ipoke to me 5 for juft in fuch bemoaning Language 
1 had ufed to talk to him, and teach him j and he 
had learned it fo perfectly, that he would fit upon 
itiy Finger, and lay his Bill clofe to my Face, and 
cry. Poor Robin Crufoe, Inhere are you ? Where have 
-sou been ? Hovj come yen here? And fuch Things as I 
had taught him. 

. However, even though I knew it was the Parrot, 
and that indeed it could be no Body elfe, it was 
a qood while before I could compofe myfelf : 
Flrli:, I was amazed how the Creature got thither, 
and then how he fhould juft keep about the Place, 
^nd no where elfe : But as I was well fatisfied it 

could 



C 1^9 ] 

could be no Body but honeft PoII^ I got it oven 
^nd holding out my Hand, and calling him by his 
Name Poll^ the foci able Creature came to me, and 
fat upon my Thumb, as he ufed to do, and conti- 
nued talking to me. Poor Robin Crufoe, and kovj 
did I tome here > And where had I been ? Juft as if he 
had beed overjoy'd to fee me again ; and fo I car- 
ry 'd him Home along with me. 

I had now had enough of rambling to Sea for 
fome time, and had enough to do for many Days 
to fit ftill, and refled: upon the Danger I had been 
in. I would have been very glad to have had 
my Boat again on my Side of the Ifland ; but I 
knew not how it was pradb'cable to get it about. 
As to the Eafl: Side of the ICand, which I had 
gone round : I knew well enough there v/as no ven- 
turing that V/ay j my very Heart would fhrink, and 
my very Blood run chill to think of it : And as 
to the other Side of the Ifland, I did not know 
how it might be there j but fuppofing the Current 
ran with the faitre Force againft the Shore at the 
Eafl, as it pafs'd by it on the other, I might run 
the fame Risk of being driven down the Stream, 
and carry 'd by the Ifland, as I had been before, 
of being carry 'd away from it: fo with thefe 
Thoughts I contented myfelf to be without any 
Boat, though it had been the Produd of fo many 
Months Labour to make it, and of (o many more 
to get it unto the Sea. 

In this Government of my Temper I remained 
near a Year, MvQd a very fedate retired Life, as 
you may well fuppofe,- and my Thoughts being 
very much compofed as to my Condition and ful- 
ly comforted in refigning my felf to the Dii^jofiti- 
pnsof Providence,^! thought 1 liv'd really very hap- 
pily in all Things except that of Society. 



[ lyo ] 

I improved my (di in this time in all the mccha^ 
nick Exercifes which my Necelfities put me upon 
applying my felf to, and I believe could, upon Oc- 
calion, made a very good Carp enter, efpecially con- 
lidering how few Tools I had. 

Belides this, I arrived at an iinexpeded Perfedi- 
on in my earthen Ware, and contriv'd well enough 
to make them with a Wheel, which I found inh- 
nitely eaiier and better ; bccaufc I made Things 
round and fhapable, which before were filthy 
Things indeed to look on. But I think I was ne- 
ver m.ore vain of my own Performance, or more 
joyful for any Thing I found out, than for my be- 
ing able to make a Tobacco-Pipe. And tho"* it was 
^ very ugly clumfy Thing, when it was done, and 
only burnt red like other earthen Ware, yet as it 
was hard and firm, and would draw the Smoke, 1 
was exceedingly comforted with it ; for I had been 
always ufed to (moke, and there were Pipes in the 
Ship, but I forgot them at firft, not knowing that 
there was Tobacco in the Rland; and afterwards, 
y.hen I fearch'd the Ship again, I could not come 
at any Pipes at all. 

In my Wicker- Ware alfo I improv'd much, and 
made abundance of neceflary Baskets, as well as 
my Invention fliew'd me, though not very hand- 
ibme, yet they were fuch as were very handy and 
convenient for m.y laying Things up in, or fetching 
Things home in. For Example, if 1 kiil'd a Goat a- 
broad, I could hang it up in a Tree, flea it, and 
drefs it, and cut it m Pieces, and bring it home in 
a Basket; and the like by a Turtle, I could cut it 
up, take out the Eggs, and a PiLX'c or two of the 
Flefli, which ^vas enough for me, and bring them 
home in a Basket, and leave the reft behind 
me. Alfo large deep Baskets were my Recei- 
vers for my Corn, which I always rubb'd out as 

foon 



t 171 3 

foon as it was dry, and cur'd, and kept it in great 
Baskets. 

I began now to perceive my Powder abated con- 
{iderably, and this was a Want which it was im-^ 
poflible for me to fupply, and I began ferioufly to 
confider what I mufl do when I fhould have no 
more Powder ; that is to fay, how I fhould do to 
kill any Goat. I had, as is obfcrv'd in the third 
Year of my being here, kept a young Kid, and bred 
her up tame, and I was in hope of getting a He- 
Goat, but I could not by any means bring it to 
pafs, *till my Kid grew an old Goat^ and I could 
never find in my Heart to kill her, till (he dy'd at 
laft of meer Age. 

But being now in the eleventh Year of my Refi- 
dence, and, asl have faid, my Ammunition grow- 
ing low, I fet my felf to ftudy Tome Art to trap and 
fnare the Goats, to fee whether I could not catch 
fome of them alive, and particularly I wanted a She-' 
Goat great with Young. 

To this Purpcfe I made Snares to hamper them, 
and I do believe they were more than once taken 
in them, but my Tackle was not good, for I had 
no Wire, and I alway found them broken, and 
my Bait devoured. 

At length I refolv'd to try a Pit-fall, fo I dug 
feveral large Pits in the Earth, in Places where I 
had obferv'd the Goats us'd to kcd, and over thefe 
Pits I plac'd Hurdler of my own making too, 
with a great Weight upon them; and feveral times 
I put Ears of Barley and dry Rice, without fet- 
tingthe Trap, and I could eafily perceive that the 
Goats had gone in and eaten up the Corn, for I 
could fee the Mark of their Feet. At length I fet 
three Traps in one Night, and going the next 
Morning I found them all ftanding, and yet the 
Bait eaten and gone. This was very difcouraging : 

How 



, [ 17^ ] 

However, I alter 'd my Trap, and, not to trouble 
you with Particulars, goin^ one Morning to Ice my 
Trap, I found in one oFchem a large old He-Goat, 
and in one of the other, three Kid , a Male and 
two Females. 

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with 
him, he was fo fierce I durft not go into the Pit to 
him ; that is to fay, to go about to bring him away 
alive, which was what I wanted. I could have 
kiird him, but that was not my Buiinefs, nor would 
it anfwer my End. So I e'en let him out, and he 
ran "away as if he had been frighted out of 
his Wits : But I had forget then what 1 recolle6lcd 
afterwards, that Hunger will tame a Lyon. If I 
had let him ftay there thiree or four Days without 
Food, and then h^ye carry 'd him fome Water to 
drink, and then a little Corn, he would have been 
as' tame as one of the Kids, for they are mighty 
fagacious tra(5table Creatures where they are well 
iifed. 

However, for the prefent I let him go, knowing 
no better at that time ; then I went to the three 
Kids, and taking them one by one, I tyed them 
with Strings together, and with fome Difficulty 
brought them all home. 

It was a good v/hile before they would feed, but 
throwing them fome fweet Corn, it tempted them, 
and they began to be tame : and now I found that 
if I expected to fupply my felf with "Goat-Flefti 
when I had no Pov/der or Shot left, breeding fome 
up tame was my only Way, when perhaps I 
might have them about my Houfe like a Flock of 
Sheep. 

But then it prefently occurred to me, that I mufl: 
keep the Tame from the Wild, or elfe they would 
always run wild when they grew up ; and the only 
Way for this u^as to have fome enclofed Piece ot 

Ground^ 



; ,175 1 

Ground^ well fenc d either with. Hedge or Pale, to 
keep them in To efteCtually, tliat thofe within might 
not break out, or thofe without break in. 

This was a great Undertaking for one Pair of 
Hands ; yet as I faw there was an abfolute Necel- 
fity of doing it, my firfl Piece of Work was to 
find out a proper Piece of Ground, viz,, where there 
was likely to be Herbage for them to eat. Water 
for them to drink) and Cover to keep them from 
the Sun. 

Thofe whounderftand fuch Enclofureswill think 
I had very little Contrivance, when I pitched upon 
a Place very proper for all thefe, being a plain o- 
pen Piece of Meadow-Land or Savanna^ (as out 
People call it in the Wellern Colonies,) which had 
two or three little Drills of frefh Water in it, and 
at one end was very woody: I fay they will fmile 
at my Forecad, when I fliall tell them I began my 
enclofing of this Piece of Ground in fuch a man- 
ner, that my Hedge or Pale mufl have been at leafl 
two Mile about. Nor was the Madnefs of it fo 
great as to the Compafs, for if it was ten Mile a- 
bout I was like to have time enough to do it in. 
But I did not confider that my Goats would be 
as w^ild i.'. fomuch Compafs, as if they had had the 
whole I (land, and I fhould have fo much Room 
to chace them in, that I fhould never catch 
them. 

My Hedge was begun and carry 'd on, I believe, 
about fil'cy Yards, when this Thought occur ^d 
to me; fo Iprefenrly flopt fliort, and for the firfl 
beginning I refolv'd to enclofe a Piece of about 150 
Yards in length, and 100 Yards in breadth, which 
as it would maintain as many as I fhould 
have in any reafcnable time, fo as my Flock en- 
crcafed, I could add more Ground to my En- 
ciofure. 

This 



[ 174] 

This was ading with fome Prudence, and I went 
to work with Courage. I was about three Months; 
hedging in thefirfl Piece, and till I had done it I 
tether'd the thrte Kids in the beft part of it, and 
us'd them to feed as near me as pofTible to make 
them familiar ; and very often I would go and car- 
ry them fome Ears of Barley, or a handful of Rice, 
and feed them out of my Hand ,* fo that after my 
Enciofure was finiOi'd, and 1 let them loofe, they 
would follow me up and down, bleating after me 
for a handful of Corn. 

This anfwer'd my End, and in about a Year and 
half I had a Flock of about twelve Goats, Kids 
and alii and in two Years more I had three and 
forty, beiides feveral that I took and kill'd for my 
Food. And after that I enclosed five feveral 
Pieces of Ground to feed them in, with little Pens 
to drive them into, to take them as I wanted, and 
Gates out of one Piece of Ground into ano- 
ther. 

But this was not all, for now I not only had 
Goats-Flefh to feed on when I pleas'd, but Milk 
too, a Thing which indeed in my beginning I did 
not fo much as think of, and which, when it came 
into my Thoughts, was really an agreeable Sur- 
prize. For nov/ 1 let up my Dairy, and had fome 
times a Gallon or two of Milk in a Day. And as 
Nature, who gives Supplies of Food to every 
Creature, di(5tatcs even naturally hov/ to make ufe 
of it ; fo I that had never milk'd a Cow, much lefs 
a Goat, or ken Butter or Cheefe made, very rea- 
dily and handily, tho' after a great many Effays 
and Mifcarriages, made me both Butter and Cheefe 
at lafi, and never wanted it afterwards. 

How mercifully can our great Creator treat his 
Creatures, even in thofe Conditions in which they 
fccm'd to be ovcrwhclm'd in Deftrudion ! How 

can 



eah he fweeten the bicterefl: Providences, and give 
us cauie to praife him for Dungeons and Prifons ! 
What a Table was here fpread for me in a VVilder- 
nefsi where I faw nothing at iirft but to perilh for 
Hunger 1 

It would have made a Stoick fniile to have feen, 
me and my little Family fit down to Dinner ; there 
was my Majefly the Prince and Lord of the whole 
Ifland ; I had the Lives of all my Subjects at my 
abfolute Command. I could hang, draw, give Li- 
berty, and take it away, and no Rebels among all 
my Subjeds. 

Then to fee how like a King I din'd too all 
alone, attended by my Servants, Polly as i( he had 
been my Favorite, was the only Perfon permit- 
ted to talk to me. My Dog, who was now grown 
very old and crazy, and had found no Species to 
multiply his Kind upon, fat always at my Right- 
Hand j and two Cats, one on one Side the Ta- 
ble, and one on the other, expe&ing now and 
then a Bit from my Hand, as a Mark of fpecial 
Favour. 

But thefe were not the two Cats which I brought 
on Shore at lirfl, for they were both of them dead, 
and had been interred near my Habitation by my 
own Hand ; but one of them having multiply 'd by 
I know not what kind of Creature, thefe were 
two which I had preferv*d tame, whereas the reft 
run vt^ild in the Woods, and became indeed trou- 
blefome to me at laft ; for they would often come 
into my Hoiife, and plunder me too, till at laft I 
was obliged too fiioot them, and did kill a great 
many ; at length they left me with this Atten- 
dance, and in this plentiful Manner I liv'dj nei- 
ther could I be faid to want any thing but Society, 
and of that in fome time after this, I wms like to 
have too much. 

\ I was 



[ 176 ] 

1 was fomerhing impatient, as I have obferv*J, 
to have the ufe of my Boat; though very loth to 
run anymore Hazards; and thereiote fometimes I 
fat contriving Ways to get her about the Ifland, 
and at other Times I flit my felf down contented 
enough without her. But I had a ftrange Uneafinefs 
in my Mind to go down to the Point of the Ifland, 
where, as I have faid, in my kit Ramble, I went up 
the Hill to fee how the Shore lay, and how the 
Current fet, that I mightfee what I had to do : This 
Inclination increased upon me every Day, and at 
length I refolv'd to travel thither by Land, follow- 
ing the Edge of the Shore, I did fo: But had any 
onein£Kg/i3/7^beentomeet fuch a Manas I was, it 
muft either have frighted them, or rais'd a great deal 
of Laughter -, and as I frequently flood flill to look 
at my felf, I could not but fmile at the Notion of 
my traveling through Torhjhire with fuch an Equi- 
page, and in fuch a Drefs : Be pleas'd to take a 
Sketch of my Figure as follows. 

I had a great high fhapelefs Cap, made of a 
Goat's Skin, wirh a Flap hanging down behind, as 
well to keep the Sun from me, as to fhoot the Rain 
cfr from running into my Neck ; nothing being fo 
hurtful in thefe C imates, as the Rain upon the 
Flefh under the Cloaths. 

I had a fhort Jacket of Goat- Skin, the Skirts 
coming down to about the middle of my Thighs ; 
andaPairof open-knee'd Breeches of the fame; the 
Breeches were made of the Skin of an old He goaty 
whofe Hair hung down fuch a Length on either 
Side, that like Pantaloons it reach 'd to the middle 
of my Legs; Stockings and Shoes I had none, but 
had made me a Pair of fomething, I fcarce know 
what to call them, like Buskins, to flap over my 
Legs, and lace on either Side like Spattcr-dafhes ; 

but 



[ 177 ] 

but of a moH barbarous Shape, as indeed were all 
the red of my Cloaths. 

1 had on a broad Belt of Goats-Skin dryed, 
which I drew together with two Thongs of the 
fame, inftcad ofBiickies, and in a kind of a Frog 
on either Side of this. Inftead of a Sword and a 
Dagger, hung a little Saw ar.d a Hatchet, one on 
one Side, one on the other. I had another Belt 
not fo broad, and faften'd in. the fame manner, 
which hung over my Shoulder i and at the End of 
it, under my Left Arm, hung two Pouches, both 
made of Goats-Skin too ; in ov.q of which hung 
my Powder, in the oth.er my Shot : At my Back I 
carried my Basket, on my Shoulder my Gun, and 
over my Head a great clumfy ugly Goat-Skin 
Umbrella, but which, after all, was themoftne- 
cefTary Thing I had about me, next to my Gun : 
As for my Face, the Colour of it was really not fo 
Moletta like, as one might exped from a Man not 
at all careful of it, and living within nine or ten 
Degrees of the Equinox. My Beard I had once 
fufter'd to grow till it was about a quarter of a Yard 
long; but as I had both Sciflars and Razor fuffi- 
eient, I had cut it pretty fliort, except what grev7 on 
my upper Lip, which 1 had trimm'd into a lan?;-^ 
Pair of Mahometan Whiskers, fuch as I nad-feen 
worn by feme "Turks ^ who I faw at ^.^allee ; for rhe 
Moors did not wear fuch, tho' the lurks did ; of tli^fe 
Muflachioes or Whiske-s, I will not fay they \^^^./e 
long enough to hang my Hat upon ihem ; but they 
were of Length and Shape monitrousenovigh, and 
fuch as in England would have pafs'd for frightful. 

But ail this by the by ; for as to my Figure, I 
had fo few to obferve me, that it was of no mai - 
ner of Confequence ; fo I fay no more to that P^ . 
In this kind of Figure I went my new Journey, ai d 
was out five or fix Days. I travelled lirft along t; e 

N Sea 



[ 178 ] 

Sea Shore, df redly to the Place where I firft 
broiit^ht my Boat to an Anchor, to get up upon 
the Rocks ; and having no Boat now to take care 
oF, I went over the Land a nearer Way, to the fame 
Height that I was upon before ; when looking for- 
ward to the Point of the Rocks which lay out, 
and which I was obhg'd to double with my Boat, 
as is faid above, I was furprix'd to fee the Sea all 
fmooth and quiet, no Ripiing, no Motion, no Cur- 
rent, any more there than in other Places. 

1 was at a flrange Lofs to underfland this, and 
refolv'd to fpend fome Time in the obferving it, to 
fee if nothing from the Sets of the Tide hadocca- 
fion'd it j but I was prefently convinced how it was, 
njiz.. That the Tide of Ebb fetting from the TVefty 
and joining w^ith the Current of Waters from fome 
great River on the Shore, muft be the Occafionof 
this Current ; and that according as the Wind 
blew more forcibly from the IVefty or from the 
North, this Current came near, or went farther 
from Shore ; for waiting thereabouts till Evening, I 
went up to the Rock again, and t\^^fPr^Q Tide of 
Ebb being made, I plamly faw the Current again 
as before, onl} , that it run farther off, being rear 
half a League horn the Shore ; whereas in my Cafe, 
it fet clofeupon the Shore, and hurried me and my 
Canoe along with it, which at another time in 
would not have done. 

This Obfervation convinced me, That I had no- 
thing to do but to obferve the ebbing and the 
flowing of the Tide, and I might very eafily bring 
my Boat about the liland again : But when I be- 
gan to think of putting it in Practice, I had fuch a 
Terror upon my Spirits at the Remembrance of 
the Danger I had been in, that I could not think of 
it again wi;h any Patience j but on the contrary, I 
took up a lother Reicluc'on, which was more fafe, 

though 



[ 179 ] 

tho' more laborious,* and this was, that I would 
build, or rather make me another Pariagua] or Ca-^ 
me ; and fo have one for one Side of the liland, 
and one for the other. 

Yoii are to underfland, that now I had, as I 
may call it, two Plantations in the Ifland -, one my 
little Fortification or Tent, with the Wall about 
it under the Rock, with the Cave behind me, 
which by this Time I had enlarged into feveral 
Apartments, or Caves, one within another. One 
of thefe, which was the drieft, and largefl, and 
had a Door out beyond my Wall or Fortification ; 
that is to fay, beyond where my Wall joyn'd to 
the Rock, was all fill'd up with the large earthen 
Pots, of which I have given an Account, and wicli 
fourteen or fifteen great Baskets, which would hold 
five or fix Bufhels each, where 1 Lid up my Stores 
of Provifion, efpecially my Corn, fome in die Ear 
cut off fiiort from the Straw, and the other ruob'd 
out with my Hand. 

As for my Wall made, as before, with long Stakes 
or Piles, thofe Piles grew all like Trees, and were 
by this Time grown fo big, and fpread fo very 
much, that there was not the lealt Appearance to 
any oner's View of any Habitation behind them. 

Near this Dwelling of mine, but a little farther 
within the Land, and upon lower Ground, lay my 
two Pieces of Corn-Ground, which I kept duly 
cultivated and fowM, and which duly yielded me 
their Harvell in its Seafon j and whenever I had 
Occafion for more Corn, I had more Land ad- 
joying as fit as that. 

Befides this, I had my Country Seat, and I had 
now a tolerable Plantation there alfo ; for firfl:, I 
had my little Bower, as I call'd ity which I kept 
in Repair ; that is to fay, I kept the Hedge which 
circled it in, conftantly fitted up to its ufual Height, 

N 2 the 



[ i8o] 

the Ladder Handing always in the Infide ; I kepf 
the Trees which at firft were no more than my 
Stakes, but were now grown very firm and tall ; 
kept them always fo cut, that they might fpread 
and grow thick and wild, and make the more a- 
greeable Shade, which they did effedually to my 
Mind. In the Middle oF this I had my Tent al- 
ways Handing, being a Piece of a Sail fpread over 
Poles fet up for that Purpofe, and which never 
wanted any Repair or Renewing ; and under this 
I had made me a Squab or Couch, with the Skins 
of the Creatures I had kill'd, and with other foft 
Things, and a Blanket laid on them, fuch as be- 
longed to our Sea- Bedding, whi'eh I had faved, and 
a great Watch-Coat to cover me ; and here, when- 
ever I had Occafion to be abfent from my chief 
Seat, I took up my Country Habitation. 

Adjoining to this I hadmy Enclofuresfor my'Cat- 
tie, that IS to fay, my Goats : And as I had taken 
an inconceivable deal of Pains to fence and enclofe 
this Ground ; fo 1 was fo uneafy to fee it kept en- 
tire, left the Goat sfhou'id break thro', that 1 never 
left off till with infinite Labour I had fluck the 
Outlide of the Hedge fo full ofimall Stakes, and 
fo near to one another, that it was rather a Pale 
than a Hedge, and there was fcarce Room to put 
a Hand thro' between them, which afterwards 
when thcfe Stakes grew, as they ill did in the next 
rainy Seafon, made the tnclofure ftrong like a Wall? 
indeed ftronger than any Wall. 

This will teftify for me, that I was not idle, 
and that I fpared no Pamsto bring to pafs what- 
ever appeared necelfary for my comfortable Sup- 
port; for I confider'd the keeping up a Breed of 
rame Creatures thus at my Hand, would be a liv- 
ing Magazine of Flefb, >/iilk, Butter and Cheefe, 

foF 



C i8i ] 

for me as long as I liv'd in the Place, if it were to be 
torty Years, and that keeping them in my Reach, 
depended entirely upon my perfecting my Endo- 
iiires to fuch a Degree, that I might be fure of 
keeping them together; which by this Method in- 
deed 1 fo effe^ftuaily fecur'd, that when thefe lit- 
tle Stakes began to grow, I had planted them fo 
very thick, I was forced to pull fomeof them up 
again. 

In this Place alfo I had m;y Grapes growing, 
which I principally depe^ided on for my Winter 
Store of Raihns : and which I nevxr faiTd to prc- 
fcrve very carefully, as the beft and mofl agreeable 
Dainty of my whole Diet,* and indeed they were 
not agreeable only, but phylical, v^holefome, nou- 
rifliing, and rcfrefhing, to the lafl Degree. 

As this was alfo about half the Way between my 
other Habitation and the Place were I had laid up 
my Boat I generally ftay'd, and lay here in my 
Way thither ; for I ufed frequently to vifit my 
Boat, and keep all Thimgs about or belonging to 
her in very good Order ; fometimes I went out 
in her to divert myfelf, but no more hazardous 
Voyages would I go, nor fcarce ever above a 
Stone's Caft or two from the Shore, I was fo ap- 
preheniive of being hurried out of my Knowledge 
again by the Currents, or Winds, orany other Ac- 
cident. But now I came to a new Scene of my Liico 
Ithappen'd one Day about Noon going towards 
my Boat, I was exceedingly furpriz'd with the Print 
of a Man's naked Foot on the Shore which was 
very plain to be feen in the Sand : I flood like one 
Thunder-flruck, or as if I had feen an Apparition ; 
I liltcn'd, I look'd round me, I could hear nothing,, 
nor fee anything; I went up to a rifing Ground to 
look farther ; I went up to the Shore and down the 
Shore, but it v/as all one, I could fee no other 

N 3 Impreffiou 



[ i8i ] 

ImprefTion but that one, ?I went to it again to fee 
if there were any more, and to obferve if it might 
not be my Fancy ; but there was no Room for 
that, for there was exactly the very Print of a Foot, 
Toes, Heel, and every Part of a Foot ; how it 
came thither, I knew not, norcouJd in the leafl: 
imagine. But after innumerable Huttering Thoughts, 
like a Man perfedly confus'd and out of my feif, I 
came Home to my Fortification, not feeling, as we 
fay, the Ground I went on, but terrify 'd to the laft 
Degree, looking behind me at every two or three 
Steps, m.iftaking every Bufh and Tree, and fancy- 
ing everv Stump at a Diflance to be a Man; nor is 
it pofTibleto defcribe how many various Shapes af- 
frighted Imagination reprefented Things to me in ; 
how many wild Ideas were found every Moment 
in my Fancy, and what flrange unaccountable 
VVhimfies came into my Thoughts by the Way. 

When I came to my Caflle, for fo I think I call'd 
it ever after this, I fled into it like one purfued ; 
whether I went over by the Ladder as lirfl; con- 
trivM, or went in at the Hole in the Rock, which 
I cali'd a Door, I cannot remember; no, nor could 
I remember the next Morning ; for never frighted 
Hare fled to Cover, or Fox to Earth, with more 
Terror of Mind than I to this Retreat. 

1 flept none that Night; the farther I was from 
the Occafion of my Fright, the greater my Ap- 
prehenfions were ; whicn is fomethmg contrary to 
rne Nature of fucli Things, and efpeciaiJy to the u- 
fuai Pradice of all Creatures in Fear : But I was 
fo embarrafs'd with my own frightful Ideas of the 
Thing, that 1 form'd nothing but difmal Imagina- 
tions to myfclf, even tho' I was now a great way 
eft It. Sometimes I fancy 'd it miifl be the De- 
vil ; and Reafon joyn'd in with me upon this Sup- 
polition : For how ihould any other Thing in hu- 
man 



[ i83] 



n^an Shap<come into the Place ? Where was the 
Vefl'el that brought them ? What Marks was there 
of any other Footlleps? And how was it poffible 
a Man fhould come there? But then to thnik that 
Satan fhould take human Shape upx)ii him in fucha 
Place where there could be no manner of Occafioii 
for it, but to leave the Print of his Foot behind 
him, and that even for no Purpofe too, for he could 
not be fure I fhould fee it j this was an Amufemcnt 
the other Way : I confidered that the Devil might 
have found put abundance of other Ways to have 
terrify^ me than this of the fingle Print of a Foot, 
That as I liv'd quite on the other Side of the Ifland, 
he would never have been fo fimple to leave a Mark 
in. a. Place where it was ten thoiifand to one whe- 
ther I fhould never fee it or not, and in the Sand 
too, which the firfl Surge of the Sea upon a high 
Wind would have defac'd entirely : All thisfeem'd 
inconfiflent with the Thing it felf, and with all the 
Notions we ufually entertain of the Subtilty of the 
Devil. 

Abundance of fuch Things as thefe afEfted to ar- 
gue me out of all Apprehenfions of its being the 
Devil : And I prefently concluded then, that it mufi: 
be fome more dangerous Creature, (viz*) That ic 
mufl be fome of the Savages of the main Land 
over-againfl me, who had wandered out to Sea in 
their Canoes, and either driven by the Currents, on 
by contrary Winds, had made the Ifland ; and had 
been on Shore, but were gone away again to Sea, 
being as loach,tperhaps, to have ftai'din this defo- 
late Ifland, as I would have been to have had them; 

While thefe Reflexions v/ere rouling upon my 
Mind, I was very thankful in my Thoughts, that 
I was fo happy as not to be thereabouts at that 
Time, or that they did not fee my Boat, by which 
they would have concluded that fome Inhabitants 

N4 had 



[ i84 ] 

had been in the Place, and perhaps have fearch*d 
farther for mc : Then terrible Thoughts rack'd my 
Imagination about their having found my Boar, 
and that there were People here ; and that it fo, I 
fhould certainly have them come again In greater 
Numbers and devour me ; that if it fliould happen 
fo that they fliould not find nie, yet they u^ould 
find my Enclofure, deflroy iiil my Corn, carry a- 
\vay all my Flock of tame Goats, and I (hoiild p^- 
rifli at laft for mere Want. 

Thus my Fear banilh'dall my religious Hope ; 
all that former Confidence in God, which was 
founded upon fuch wonderful Experience as I had 
had oF his Goodnefs, now vanifh'd, as if he that 
had Fed me by Miracle hither to, could not preferve 
by his PovrerthcProvifion which he had made for 
me by his Goodnefs : I reproach'd m} felfwith my 
Eafinefs, that would not fow any more Corn one 
Year than would jufl ferve me tiii ihe next Seafon, 
as it no Accident could intervene to prevent my 
enjoying the Crop that was upon the Ground ; 
and this I thought fo juft a Reproof, that I refoiv'd 
for the future to have tv^^o or three Years Corn be- 
fore-hand, (o that whatever might come, I might 
not perifli for want of Bread. 

How fi range a Chequer- Work of Providence is 
the Life ot Man ! and by what fecret differing 
Snrinc.s are the Afteccions hurr}M about, as differ- 
ring Circumihinces prcftnt 1 1 o Dav we love what 
to Morrow we hate ; to Day we feek what to Mor- 
row we (nun ; to Day %ve dehre what lo Morrow 
we fear; nay, even tremble au the Apprehenfions of: 
This was exemplihcd in me at this time in the mofl 
lively >4anner imaginiible: For I, whofe only Af- 
flrCiiou was, that I feem'd baniflied from human 
Society, that 1 was alone, cu'cumfcrib'd by the 
boundiels Ocean, cut cfi from Mankind, and con- 

acmn 4 



[ i85] 

demn'd to what I call'd (iient Life ; that I was as 
one whom Heaven thought not worthy to be num- 
bered among the Living, or to appear among the 
reft of nis Creatures ; that to have feen one of my 
own Species would have feem'd to me a Railing 
me from Death to Lite, and the greateft Bleffing 
that Heaven itfelf, next to the fupreme Blefling of 
Salvation, could beftowj I fay, that I Ihould now 
tremble at the very Apprehenfionsof feeing a Man, 
and was ready to fink into the Ground at but the 
Shadow, or iilent Appearance of a Man's having 
fet his Foot in the Lland. 

Such is the uneven State of human Life: Audit 
afforded m.e a great many curious Speculations af- 
terwards. When I had a h'ttle recovered my firil 
Surprize; IconfiderM that this was the Station of 
Life the infinitely wife and good -Providence of 
God had determin'd forme; that as I could not 
forefee what the Ends of divine Wifdom might be 
in all this, fo I was not to difpute his Sovereignty, 
who as I was his Creature, had an undoubted 
Right by Creation to govern and difpofeof me ab- 
folutely as he thought fit ,• and who, as I was a 
Creature who had ofi-ended him, had likewife a ju- 
dicial Right to condemn me to what Punifhment 
bethought fit; and that it was my part to fubmit 
to beat his Indignation, becaufe Ihad rinn'dagainfl 
him. 

1 then rcfletfled that God, who was not only 
Righteous but -Omnipotent, as he had thought 
fit thus to punifh and afHift me, fo he was able 
to deliver me ; that if he did not think fit to doit, 
'twas my unquef!i(3n'd Duty to refign myfelf abfo- 
luteiy and entirely to his Will; and on the other 
hand, it was my Duty alfo to hope in him, pray 
to him, and quietly to attend the Didates and Di- 
rect ons of his daily Providence. 

Thefe 



t i%6 ] 



Thefe Thottghts took me up many Hours, Days, 
nay, I may fay. Weeks and Months ; and one par- 
ticular Effed of my Cogitations on this Occafion, 
I cannot omit, viz.. One Morning early, lying iii 
my Bed, andfill'd with Thought about my Danger 
from the Appearance of Savages, I found it dif- 
composM me very much ; upon which thofe Words 
of the Scripture came into my Thoughts, Call upon 
me in the Day of Trouble^ and I will deliver ^ and thou 
fiah glorify me. 

Upon this, riflng chearfully out of my Be ), my 
Heart was not only comforted, but I was guided 
and encourag'd to pray earneftly to God for Deli- 
verance : When I had done praying, I took up my 
Bible, and opening it to read, the hrft Words that 
prefented to me, were. Wait en the Lord, and be of 
good Cheev^ and he jhaR jlrengthen thy Heart ; wait, 
J fay, on the Lord. It is impoffible to exprefs the 
Comfort tiiis gave me. In Anfwer, I thankfully 
laid down the Book, and was no more fad, at ieait 
not on that Occafion. 

In the middle of thefc Cogitations, Apprehenfi- 
onsand Reflections, it came into my Thought one 
Day, that all this might be a mere Chimera of my 
ovvHi and that this Fcct might be the Print oF my 
own Foot, when I came on Shore from my Boat: 
Thischear'd me up a little too, and I began to per- 
fuade my (tl'i it was all a Deluiion ; that it was no- 
thing eli'e but my own Foot ; and why might not I 
come that way from tlie Boat, as well as I was go- 
ing that way to the Boat : Again, I conlider'd alfo 
that I could by no means tell for certain where I 
had trod, and where I had not ; and that ii at laf! 
this was only the Print of my ovv'U Foot, I had 
play'd the part of thofe Fools, who ilrive to make 
Stories of Spectres and Apparitior.s, and then are 
frighted at them more than any Body. 

Now 



[ isy] 



Now I began to take Courage, and to peep abroad 
again ; for I had not ftirr'd out of my Caftle for three 
Days and Nights ; fo that I began to ftarve for 
Provifion ; for I had little or nothing within Doors 
but fome Barley Cakes and Water. Then I knew 
that my Goats wanted to be milk'd too, which 
ufually was my Evening Diverfion ; and the poor 
Creatures were in great Pain and Inconvenience for 
want ofit j and indeed, it almoft fpoil'd fome of 
them, and almoft dry'd up their Milk. 

Heartning my felf therefore with the Belief that 
this was nothing but the Print of one of ray own 
Feet, and fo 1 might be truly faid to ftart at my 
own Shadow, I began to go abroad again, and 
went to my Country Houfe to milk my Flock ; but 
to fee with what Fear I went forward, how often I 
look'd behind me, howl was ready every now and 
then to lay down my Basket, and run for my Life, it 
would have made any one have thought I was haunt- 
ed with an evil Confcience, or that 1 had been late- 
ly moft terribly frighted, and fo indeed I had. 

However, as I went down thus two or three 
Days, and having feen nothing, I began to be a lit- 
tle bolder ; and to think there was really nothing in 
it, but my own Imagination : But I could not per- 
fuade my felf fully of this, till I fhould go down to 
the Shore again, and fee this Print of a Foot, and 
meafure it by my own, and fee if there was any Si- 
militude or Fitnefs, that I might be affur'd it was 
my own Foot : But when I came to the Place, 
Fir/iy it appearM evidently to me, that when I laid 
up my Boat, I could not poflibly be on Shore any 
where there about. Se^ondly^ When I came to mea- 
fure the Mark with my own Foot, I found my Foot 
not fo large by a great deal ; both thefe Things fill'd 
my Head with new Imaginations, and gave me the 
Vapours again, to the highefl Degree i fo that I 

fiiook 



[ i88 3 



fiiook with Cold, like one in an Ague : And I ivent 
Home again, filled with the Beliefthat roine Man 
or Men had been on the Shore ; or in fhort, tiiat the 
Itland was inhabited, and I might be furpnz'd be- 
fore I was aware -, and what courfe to take for my 
Security I knew not. 

O what ridiculous Refokitions Men take, when 
pofTefs'dwith Fear ! It deprives them of the Ufe of 
thofe Means which Reafon offers for their Relief. 
The firfl; thing I propos'd to my felf, was, to 
throw down my Enclolures, and turn all my tame 
Cattle wild into the Woods, that the Enemy mignt 
not find them ; and then frequent the Ifland in Prof- 
ped of the fame, or the lilvC Booty : Then to the 
iimple thing of diggmg up my two Corn Fields, 
that they might not find fuch a Grain there, and 
itill be prompted to frequent the Ifland j then to de- 
moHfh my Bower and Tent, that they might not 
fee any Veftiges of Habitation, and be prompted 
to look farther, in order to find out the PerfohS 
inhabiting, 

Thefe were the Subj'ed of the firft Night's Co- 
gitation, after 1 was come Home again, while the 
Apprehenfions which had fo over-run my Mind 
were frefli upon me, and my Head wusfull of Va- 
pours, as above. Thus fear of Danger is ten thou- 
fand times more terrifying than Danger itfelf, when 
apparent to the Eyes; and we find the Burthen 
of Anxiety greater by much, than the Evil which 
we are anxious about ; and which was worfe than 
alt this, I had not that Relief in this Trouble 
from the Relignarion I ufed to pra6:ife, which I 
hop'd to have. I look'd, I thought, like Saul^ who 
comp-'ain^'d not Oxily that the Philifti-aes were upon 
him, but that' God had forfaken him ; for I did not 
now ta.kedue V/ ays to compofemy Mind, by crying 
to God in my Diflrefs, anci rcfling upon his Provi- 

CiCiiCCj 



[.89] 

dmcCy as I had done before, for my Defence and 
Dcliverar.ee ; which if 1 had done, I had, at kaft, 
been more cheerfully fnpported under this new Sur- 
^rife, and perhaps carry'd through it with more Re- 
lolution. . 

This Confufion of my Thoughts kept me waking 
al) Night ; but in the Morning I fell afleep, and 
havmg by the Amufement of my Mind, been, as it 
tvere tired, and my Spirits exhaufted, I flept very 
foundly, and wak'd much better composed than 
1 had ever been before : And now I began to think 
fedately ; and upon the utmoft Debate with my 
felf, 1 concluded. That this Ifland, which was (o 
exceeding pleafant, fruitful, and no farther from the 
main Land than as 1 had feen, was not fo entirely a- 
bandon'd as I might imagine : That altho' there 
were noflated Inhabitants who liv'd on the Spot; 
yet that there might fometimes come Boats off from 
the Shore, who either with Delign or perhaps 
never but when they were driven by crofs Winds 
might come to this Place. 

That I had liv'd here iifteen Years now, and had 
not met with the leaf! Shadow or Figure of any 
People yet ; and that if at any Time they fhould be 
driven here, it was probable they went away again 
as foon as ever they could, feeing they had never 
thought fit to hx thereupon any Occafion, to this 
Time. 

That them.oll Icou'd fuggeft any Danger from, 
was, from any fuch cafual accidental Landing of 
draggling People from tlie Main, who, as it was 
likely if they were driven hither, were here againfl 
their Wills ; fo they made no ffay here, but went off 
again with all pofiible Speed, ieldom Ifaying one 
Night on Shore, leafl they fiiould not have the 
Help of the Tides, and Day-light back again ,* and 
that therefore i had nothing to do but to confider 

of 



[ 190 ] 

oF fome fafe Retreat, in cafe I fhoiild fee any Sava- 
ges land upon the Spot. 

Now I began forely to repent, that I had dug 
my Cave (o large, as to bring a Door through a- 
gain, which Door, as I faid, came out beyond where 
my Fortification joyn'd to the Rock : upon mature- 
ly confidering this therefore, I refolv'd to draw me 
a fecond Fortification, in the fame Manner of a Se- 
micircle, at a Diflance from my Wail, jufi; where I 
had planted a double Row of Trees, about twelve 
Years before, of which I made mention : Thefe 
Trees having been planted fo thick before, they 
wanted but a few Piles to be driven between them 
that they Ihould be thicker, and flronger, and my 
Wall would be foon finifh'd. 

So that I had now a double Wall, and my outer 
Wall was thickned with Pieces of Timber, old Ca- 
bles, and every Thing I could think of to make it 
flrong ; having in it feven little Holes, about as 
big as I might put my Arm out at : In the Infide 
of this, I thickned my Wail to above ten Foot 
thick, with continual bringing Earth out of my 
Cave, and laying it at the Foot of the Wall, and 
walking upon it; and through the feven Holes, I 
contrived to plant the Mufquets, of which I took 
Notice, that I got feven on Shore out of the Ship ; 
thefe, I fay, I planted as Cannon, and fitted them 
into Frames that held them like a Carriage, that 
fo I could fire all the feven Guns in two Minutes 
time: This Wall I was many a weary Month a 
finifhing, and yet never thought my feif fafe till it 
was dor.e. 

When this was done, I iluck all the Ground 
without my Wall, for a great way every way, as 
full with Stakes or Sticks of the 0/^r-like Wood, 
which I found fo apt to grow, as they could well 
Hand i infomuch, that I believe I might fet in near 

twenty 



[ 191 3 

twenty thoufand of them, leaving a pretty large 
Space between them and my Wall, that I might 
have room to fee an Enemy, and they might have 
no (helter from the young Trees, if they attempted 
to approach my outer Wail. 

Thus in two Years time I had a thick Grove, 
and in five or fix Years time I had a Wood before 
my Dwelling, growing fo monftrous thick and 
ftrong, that it was indeed perfedly impaflable ; 
and no Man of what kind foever, would everima- 
gink that there was any Thing beyond it, much lefs 
a Habitation. As for the Way which I propofed to 
myfelf to go in and out, for I left no Avenue, it 
w^asby fetting two Ladders ; one to a Part of the 
Rock which was low, and then broke in, and left 
room to place another Ladder upon that ; fo when 
the two Ladders were taken down, no Man living 
oould come down to me without mifchiefing him- 
felf j and ii they had come down, they were flill 
on the out-iide of my outer Wall. 

Thus I took ail the Meafures human Prudence 
could fugged for my own Prefervation ; and it wxil 
be feen at length, that they w^ere not altogether 
without juft Reafon ; though I forefaw nothing at 
that Time, more than my mere Fear fuggefted to 
me. 

While this was doing, I was not altogether care- 
lefs of my other Affairs ; for i had a great Concern 
upon me, for my little Herd of Goats; they were 
not only a prefcnt Supply to me upon every Occa- 
fion, began to be fufficient to me, without the 
Expence of Powder and Shot,* but alfo without the 
Fatigue of Hunting after the wild Ones ; and I was 
loth to lofe the Advantage of them, and to have 
them all to nurfe up over again. 

To this Purpofe, after long Confideration, I 
could think of but two Ways to prefcrve themj 

one 



[ i9V] 

one was to find another convenient Place to dl^ t 
Cave under Ground, and to drive them into it every 
Night ; and the other was to enclofe two or three 
little Bits of Land, remote from one another, and as 
much conceal'd as 1 could, where I might keep a- 
bout half a Dozen young Goats in each Place: So 
that if any Difafter happened to the Flock in gene- 
ral, 1 might be able to raife them again with little 
Trouble and Time : And this^ tho' it would re- 
quire a great deal of Time and Labour, I thought 
was the moff rational Deiign. 

Accordingly I fpent fome Time to find out the 
mod retired Parts of the IHand ,* and I pitch'd up- 
on one which was as private indeed as m.y Heart 
could wifh for; it was a little damp Piece of Ground 
in the middle of the Hollow and thick Woods, 
where, asis obferv'd, I almofl loll: myfeifonce be- 
fore, endeavouring to come back that Way from 
the EafternPart of thellland : Here I found a clear 
Piece of Land near three Acres, To furiounded with 
Woods, that it was almoft an Enclofure by Nature, 
atleafl: it did not want near fo much Labour to 
make it fo, as the other Pieces of Ground I had 
work'd fo hard at. 

I immediately ^vent to work with this Piece of 
Ground, and in lefs than a Month's Time, I had 
fo fenc'd it round, that my Flock or Herd, call it 
which you pleafe, who were not fo wild now as at 
fir ft they might be fuppofed to be, were well e- 
nough fecur'd in it. So without any farther De- 
lay, I removed ten young She-Goats and two He- 
Goats to this piece ; and when they were there, I 
continu'd to perftft the Fence till I had made it 
as fecure as the other, which, however, I didat 
more Leifure, and it took me up more Time by a 
great deal. 

All 



[ 195 ] 

An this Labour I was at the Expence of, purely 
from my Apprehenlionson the Account of the Print 
of a Man's Foot which I had feen; for as yet I 
never faw any human Creature come near the Ifland, 
and I had now liv'd two Years under thefe Unea- 
linefl'es, which indeed made my Life much Jefs 
comfortable than it was before; as may well bs 
imagined by any who know what it is to live in 
the Gonilanc Snare of /Z>^ Fear of Man; and this 1 
mufl obferve with Grief too, that the Difcompo- 
fure of my Mind had too great Impreilions alfo up- 
on the religious Part of my Thoughts, for the 
Dread and Terror of falling into the Hands of .Sa- 
vages and Canibals, lay fo upon my Spirits, that 
Ifeldom found myfelf in a due Temper for Appli- 
cation to my Maker, at leaft, not with the fedate 
Calmnefs and Refignation of Soul which I was 
wont to do i I rather pray'd to God as under 
great Afflidion and PreiTure of Mind, furrounded 
with Danger, and in Expedation every Night of 
being murther'd and devour'd before Morning ; 
and I muft teflify from my Experience, that a Tem- 
per of Peace, Thankfulnefs, Love and Affedion, i$ 
much more the proper Frame for Prayer, that that 
of Terror and Difcompofure ; and that under the 
Dread of Mifchief impending, as Man is no more 
fit for a comforting Performance of the Duty of 
praying to God, than he is for Repentance on a 
fick-Bed : For thefe Difcompofures affed: the Mind 
as the others do the Body; and the Difcompofure 
of the Mind muft neceflarily be as great a DXabi- 
lity as that of the Body, and much greater, pray 
ing to God, being properly an Ad of the Mind, not 
of the Body. 

But to go on ; After I had thus fecur'd one Part 

of my little living Stock, I went about the whole 

Ifland, fearching foranother private Place, to make 

O fuch 



[ m ] 

fuch anothet t)epofit ; when wandring more to the 
IVeft Point of the Illand than I had ever done yet, 
and looking out to Sea, I thought I faw a Boat up- 
on the Sea, at a great Diftance ; I had found a Pro- 
fpedive-Glafs, or two, in one of the Seamen^s 
Chefts, which I fav'd out of our Ship j but I had 
it not about me, and this was fo remote, that I could 
not tell what to make of it ; though I look'd at it 
till my Eyes were not able to hold to look any 
longer : VVhether it was a Boat, or not, I do not 
know ; but as I defcended from the Hill, I could 
fee no more of it, fo I gave it over ,* only I refolv'd 
to go no more out without a Profpedive-Glafs in 
my Pocket. 

When I was come down the Hill, to the End of 
the Ifland, where indeed I had never been beforei 
I was prefently convinced, that the feeing the Print 
of a Man's Foot, was not fuch a ftrange Thing in 
the Ifland as I imagin'd ; and but that it was a fpe- 
cial Providence that I was caft upon the Sideofthe 
Ifland where the Savages never came, I fhould ea- 
(ily have known, that nothing was more frequent 
than for the Cwoes from the Main, when they hap- 
pened to be a little too far out at Sea, to fhoot over 
to that Side of the Ifland for Harbour ; likewife as 
they often met, and fought in their Canoes^ the Vi- 
ctors having taketi anyPrifoners, Would bring them 
over to this Shore, where, according to their dread- 
ful Cufloms, being all C^«/Wj, they would kill and 
cat them ; oi which hereafter. 

When I was come down the Hill to the Shore^ 
as I faid above, being the S. W* Point of the 
Ifland, I wasperfedly confounded andamaz'd^ nor' 
is it poiTible tor me to exprefs the Horror of my 
Mind, at feeing the Shore /pread with Sculls^ 
Hands, Feet, and other Bones of human Bodies ; 
and particularly I obferv'd a Place where there had 

been 



[195] 

been a Fire made, and a Circle dug in the Earth, 
like a Cockpit, where it is fiippofed the Savage 
Wretches had fet down to their inhuman Feaft- 
ings upon the Bodies of their Fellow-Creatures. 

I was fo aflonifti'd with the Sight of thefe Things, 
that I entertained no Notions of any Danger to my 
felf from it for a long while; all my Apprehen- 
fions were buried in the Thoughts of fuch a Pitch of 
inhuman, heljifh Brutality, and the Horror of the 
Degeneracy of human Nature ; which though I 
had heard of often, yet I never had fo near a View of 
before; in fliort, I turned away my Face from th« 
horrid Spe6tacle ,• my Stomach grew fick, and I 
was juflatthe point of Fainting, when Nature dif- 
charg'd the Diforder from my Stomach ; and ha- 
ving vomited with an uncommon Violence, I was 
a little relieved, but could not bear to flay in the 
Place a Moment -, fo I got me up the Hill again 
with all the Speed I could, and vvalkM on towards 
my own Habitation. 

When I came a little out of that Part of the 
Ifland, I flood flill av^^hile as amaz'd ,• and then re- 
covering my felf, Ilook'd up with the utmofl Affe- 
^ion of my Soul, and with a Flood of Tears in my 
Eyes, gave God Thanks, that had cafl my firfl Lot 
in a Part of the World, where I was diffinguifh^d 
from fuch dreadful Creatures as thefe ; and that 
though I had efteemed my prefent Condition very 
miferable, had yet given me fo many Comforts iti 
it, that I had ftill more to give thanks for than to 
complain of; and this above all, that I had even 
in this miferable Condition been comforted with 
the Knowledge of himfelf, and the Hope of his 
BleiTmg, which was a Felicity more than fufficient- 
ly equivalent to all the Mifery which I had fufFer'd, 
or could fuffcr. 

O a In 



r 19^1 

In this Frame of Thankfulnefs, I went Home to 
my Caftle, and began to be much ealier now, as 
to the Safety of my Circumftances, than ever I was 
before ; for I oblerv'd that thefe Wretches never 
came to this Iiland in fcarch of what they could 
get i perhaps not fceking, nor wanting, or not ex- 
peeling any Thing here i and having often, no doubt, 
been up in the covcr'd woody Part of it, without 
finding any Thing to their Purpofe. I knew I had 
been here now aimofl eighteen Years, and never 
faw the leafl Footfleps of human Creature there 
before ; and I might be here eighteen more, as en- 
tirely conceai'd, as I was now, if I did not difcover • 
myfelf to them, which I had no manner ot Occa- 
fion to do, it being my only Bufinefs to keep my 
fclf entirely concealed where I was, unlefs I found 
a better fort of Creatures than Canibals to make my 
felf known to. 

Yet I entertain'd fuch an Abhorrence of the Sa- 
vage Wretches that I have been f peaking of, and of 
the wretched inhuman Cuflom of their devouring 
and eating one another up, that I continu'd penfive, 
and fad, and kept clofe within my own Circle 
for almofl two Years after this: When I fay my 
own Circle, I mean by it, my three Plantations, 
*viz,. my Caille, my Country- Seat, which I caiJ^d 
my Bower, and my Enclofure in the Woods ; nor 
did I look after this for any other \J^^ than as an 
Enclofure for my Goats ; for the Averfion which 
"Nature gave me to thefe hellilli Wretches, was 
luch,that I was fearful of {Qcm^ them, as of feeing 
the Devil himfelf^ nor did I fo much as go to look 
after my Boat in all this time, but began rather 
to think oi making me another ; for 1 could not 
think of ever making any more Attempts to bring 
the other Boat round the Ifland to me, left I 
iiiouldmcet with feme of thefe Creatures at Sea, 

in 



[ 197] 

in which, if I had happened to have fallen into their 
Hands, I knew what would have been my Lot. 

Time however, and the Sadsfadion I had, that 
I was in no Danger of being diTcovered by thefe 
people, began to wear off my Uneaiinefs about 
them ; and 1 began to live jufl in the famecompos'd 
Manner as before ; only with this Difrerence, that 
I Lifed more Caution, and kept my E} es more about 
me than I did before, left I fliould happen to be 
feen by any of them ; and partfcubriy, 1 was more 
cautious of firing my Gun, lell: any of them being 
on thellland, fhould happen lo hear of it,- and it 
was therefore a very good Providence to me, that 
I had furnifli'd my felt with a tame Breed of Goats, 
that I needed not hunt any more about the V/oods, 
or (hoot at them ; and i^ I did catch any of them, 
after tJiis it was by Traps, and Snares, as I had 
done before ; fo that for two Years after this, 1 be- 
lieve I never fir'4 my Gun once off, though I ne- 
ver went out without it ; and which was more, as 
I hadfav'd three Piflols out of the Ship, I always 
carried tliem out with me, or at lead two of them, 
{ticking them m my Goat-Skin Belt; alfo 1 fur- 
bifh'd up one of the great Cutlaflies, that 1 had 
out of the Ship, and made me a Belt to put it on 
alfoj fo that 1 was now a moil: formidable Fellow 
to look at, when I went Abroad, if you add to the 
former Dcfcriptionof myfelf, the Particular of two 
Pifcols, and a great broad Sword hanging at my 
Side in a Belt, but without a Scabbard. 

Things going on thuS, as I have faid, for fome 
Time ; I feem'd, excepting thefe Cautions, to be 
reduc'd to my former calm, fedate way of Livings 
ail thefe Things tended to fliewing me more and 
more how far my Condiiion was from being mife- 
rable, compared to fome others i nay, to mai^y 
other Particulars of Life, which it might haveplea^ 
O 3 fed 



[ 198] 

fed God to have made my Lot. It put me upon 
refleding, how little repining there would be sr^ 
mong Mankind, at any Condition of Lite, if Peo- 
ple would rather compare their Condition with 
thofe that are worfe, in order to be thankful, than 
be always comparing them with thofe which are 
better, to aflift their Murmurings and Complain- 
ings. 

As in my prefent Condition there were not real- 
ly many Things which I wanted ; (o indeed I 
tlicught that the Frights I had been in about thefe 
Savage Wretches, and the Concern I had been in 
for my own Prefervarion, had taken off the Edge 
of my Invention for my own Convenencies ; and I 
had dropt a good Defign, which I had once bent 
my Thoughts too much upon ; and that was, to 
try if I could not make fome of my Barley into 
Islalt, and then try to brew myfelf fome Beer ; 
This was really a whimfical Thought, and I re- 
proved myfelf often for the Simplicity of it ; for I 
prefently faw there would be the Want of feveral 
Things neceffary to the making my Beer, that it 
would be impofTible for me to fupply : As firff. 
Casks to preferve it in, which was a Thing, that 
:is I have obferv'd already, I could never compafs ; 
no, tho' 1 fpent not many Days, but Weeks, nay 
Months, in attempting it, but to no Purpofe. In 
the next Pljce, 1 had no Hops to make it keep, no 
Yeail to make it work, no Copper or Kettle to 
make it boil ,* . and yet all tiiefe Things, notwith- 
fianciing, I verily believe, had not thefe Things in- 
tervened, I mean the Frights and Terrors I was in 
libout the Savages, I had undertaken it, and per-^ 
haps brought it to pafs too; for 1 feldom gave a- 
ny Thing over without accom.plifhing it, when I 
once had it in my Head enough to begin it. 

But 



C 199] 

Bat my Invention now run quite another Way ; 
for Njght and Day I could think of nothing but 
how I might deftroy fome of thefe Monftersin their 
cruel bloody Entertainment, and, if poffible, fave 
the Vidim they fhould bring hither to deftroy. It 
would take up a larger Volume than this whole 
Work is intended to be? to fet down all the Con- 
trivances I hatch 'd, or rather brooded upon in my 
Thought, for the deft toying thefe Creatures, or at 
kaft frighting them, fo as to prevent their coming 
hither any more ; but all was abortive, nothing 
could be pofTible to take Effed, unlefs I was to be 
there to do it for niyfelf; and what could one T^an 
do among them, when perhaps there might be 
twenty or thirty of them together, with their 
Darts, or their Bows and Arrows, with which 
they could fhoot as true to a Mark, as I could 
with my Gun ? 

Sometimes I contrived to dig a Hole under the 
Place where they made their Fire, and put in five 
or fix Pound of Gun-powder, which, when they 
kindled their Fire, would cohfequently take Fire, 
and blow up all that was near it j but as in the firft 
f lace I fhould be very loth to wafte fo much Powder 
iipon them, my Score being now within the Quan- 
tity of one Barrel ; fo neither could I be fure of its 
going off at any certain time, when it might fur- 
prize them, and at beft, that it would do little more 
than juft blow the Fire about their Ears and fright 
them, but not fufficient to make them forfake the 
Place 'y fo I laid it afide, and then propos'd, that 
I would place myfelf in Ambufh, in fome con- 
venient Place, with my three Guns, all double 
loaded ; and in the Middle of their bloody Cere- 
mony, let fly at them, when I fhould be fure to kill 
or wound perhaps two or three at every Shoot ^ and 
then falling in upon them with "my three Piftols, 

O 4 and 



[ 200 i 

and my Sword, I made no Doubt but thatif tliere 
was tv^-enry, I (hould kill them all. This Fancy 
pleas'd my Thoughts for Tome Weeks, and I was fo 
full of it, that I oFren dream'd ofit; and fometimes 
that I was /ufl going to let fly at them in my Sleep. 

I went fo flir with it in my Imagination, that I 
employ 'd myfelf feveral Days to Hnd out proper 
Places to put myfelf in Ambufcadc, as I faid, to 
watch for them; and I went frequently to the 
Place it felf, which was now grown more familiar 
tome; andefpeciajly while my Mind was thus Hlfd 
with Thoughts of Revenge, and of a bloody put- 
ting twenty or thirty of them to the Sword, as I 
may call it ; the Horror I had at the Place, and 
at the Signals of the barbarous Wretches devour- 
ing one another, abated my Malice. 

Well, at length I found a Piace in the Side of 
the Hill, where I was fatisfy^d I might fecurely 
wait, till I faw any of their Boars coming, and 
might then, even before they Vv^ould be ready to 
come on Shore, convey myfelf unfeen into Thic- 
kets of Trees, in one of which there was a Hollow 
large enough to conceal me entire.'y ; and where I 
might fit and observe all their bloody Doings, and 
take my full Aim at their Heads, when they were 
fo clofe together, as that it would be next to im- 
poffible that I (hould mifs my Shoot, or that I could 
fail wounding three or four of them at the firft 
Shoot. 

In this Place then I refolved to fix my Defign, 
and accordingly 1 prepar'd two Muskets and my 
ordinary Fowling-piece. The two Muskets I 
loaded with a Brace of Slugs each, and four or five 
fmaller Bullets, about tie Size of Piflol-Bullets ; 
aid the Fowing-Piece I loaded with near a Hand- 
-fiir^f Swan Shot, oi the largefl Size; I alfo loaded 
py P.flols with about four Builetseach ; and in this 

Pofture, 



Pofture, well provided with Ammunition for a fe- 
cond and third Charge, I prepared my feJf for my 
Expedition. 

After I had thus laid the Scheme of my Defign, 
and in my Imagination put it in Pradice, I conti- 
nually made my Tour every Morning up to the 
Top of the Hill, which was from my Caftle, as I 
cali'dit, about three Miles, or more, to fee if I 
could obierve any Boats upon the Sea, coming near 
the liland, or Handing over towards it; but I be- 
gan to tire of this hard Duty, after I had for two 
or three Months conftantly kept my Watch ,• but 
came always back without any Difcovery, there 
having not in all that Time been the leafi: Appea- 
rance, not only on, or near the Shore^ but not on 
the whole Ocean, fo far as my Eyes or Glailes 
could reach every Way. 

As long as I kept up my daily Tour to the Hill 
to look 01 1, (o long alio I kept up the Vigour of 
my Defign, and my Spirits feem'd to be all the 
while in a fuitable Form for fo outragious an Exe- 
cution as the killing twenty or thirty naked Savages, 
for an Offence which I had not at all entred into a 
Difcuflion of in my Thoughts, any farther than my 
PafTions were at hrft fir'd by the Horror I conceived 
at the unnatural Cuflomof that People of the Coun- 
try, who, it fcems, had been fufer'd by Providence, 
in his wife Difpofition of the World, to have no 
other Guide than that of their own abominable and 
vitiated Padions ; and confequently were left, and 
perhaps had been fo for fome Ages, to ad: fuch 
horrid Things, and receive fuch dreadful Cu- 
ftoms, as nothing but Nature entirely abandoned 
of Heaven, and a<5tcd by fome hellifh Degeneracy, 
could have run them into : But now when, as I 
have faid, I began to be weary of that fruitlefs Ex- 
curfion which I had made fo long, and fo far, eve- 
ry 



[ ^02 ] 

Xy Morning in vain, fo my Opinion of the Adioi] 
itfelf began to alter, and I began with cooler and 
calmer Thoughts to confider what it was I was go- 
ing to engage in. What Authority or Call I had, 
to pretend to be Judge and Executioner upon thefe 
Men as Criminals, whom Heaven had thought tit 
for fo many Ages to fufFer unpunifh'd, to go on, 
and to be, as it were, the Executioners of his Judg- 
ments one upon another. How far thefe People 
•were Offenders againil me, and what Right I had 
to engage in the Quarrel of that Blood, which they 
ihed promifcuoufly one upon another. 1 debated 
this very often with my felf thus ; How do I know 
what God himfelf judges in this particular Cafe? 
It is certain thefe People either do not commit this 
as a Crimea it is not againfl their own Confciences 
reproving, or their Light reproaching them- They 
do not know it to be an Offence, and then commit 
it in Defiance of divine Juflice, aswe doin dmoft 
all the Sins we commit. They think it no more a 
Crime to kill a Captive taken in War, than we do 
to kill an Ox j nor to eat human Flefh, than we 
do to eat Mutton. 

When I had confider'd this a little, it follow'd 
neceflarily, that I was certainly in the Wrong in 
it y that thefe People were not Murderers in the 
Senfe that 1 had before condemned them in my 
Thoughts, any more than thofe Chriftians were 
Murderers, who ofcen put to Death the Prifoners 
ral.en in Battel; or more frequently, upon many 
Occafions, pur whole Troops of Men to the Sword^ 
without giving Qiiarter, though they threw down 
their Arms and iubmitted. 

In the next place it occurr'd to me, that albeit the 
Ufuage they thusgave one another, was thus brutilh 
and inhuman, yet it was really nothing to me i 
Thefe People had done me nolninry : That if they 

a I tempted 



[ 203 ] 

attempted me, or I faw it neceffary for my imme^ 
dia'te Perfervation to fall upon them, fomething 
might be faid for it ; but that as I was yet out of 
their Power, and they had really no Knowledge 
of me^, and confeqiiently no Defign ' Cipon me i 
therefore it could not be juft for me to fall upon 
them. That this wouM juflify the Condud of the 
Spaniards in all their Barbarities pradis*d in Ame- 
rica, and where they deftroy'd Millions of thefe 
People, who, however they were Idolaters and Bar- 
barians, and had feveral bloody and barbarous 
Rites in their Cuftoms, fuch as facrificing human 
Bodies to their Idols, were yet, as to the Spaniards^ 
very innocent People ; and that the rooting tnem 
out of the Country, is fpoken of with the utmoft 
Abhorrence and Deteftation, by even the Spaniards 
themfelves, at this time, and by all other Chrifti- 
an Nations oi Europe, as a meer Butchery, a bloody 
and unnatural Piece of Cruelty, unjuftifiable either 
to God or Man ,• and fuch, as for which the very 
Name of a Spaniard is reckoned to be frightful and 
terrible to all People of Humanity, or of Chriftian 
CompafHon : As if the Kingdom of ^jp^zw were par- 
ticularly eminent for the Produd of a Race of Men, 
who were without Principles of Tendernefs, or the 
common Bowels of Pity to the Miferable, which 
is reckon M to be a Mark of generous Temper in 
the Mind. 

Thefe Confiderations really put me to a Paufe, 
and to a kind of a Full-flop ? and I began by little 
and little to be off of my Defign, and to conclude, 
I had taken wrong Meafures in my Refolutions to 
attack the Savages; that it was not my Bufinefs to 
meddle with them, unlefs they firil attacked me, 
and this it was my Bufinefs if polTible to prevent ; 
but that if I were difcover'd, and attack'd, then I 
knew my Duty* 

On 



C i04 ] 

On the other hand, I argu'd with myfelf, That 
this really was the way not to dehVermyfelF, but 
entirely to ruin and deftroy myfdf; for imkfs I was 
fure to kill every one chat not only fliould be on 
Shore at that time, but that fhould ever come on 
Shore afterwards, if but one of them efcap'd, to 
tell their Country People what had happened, they 
would come over again by Thoufands to re- 
venge the Deaths of their Fellows, and I (hould 
only bring upon myfelf a certain DeftruCtion, 
which at prefent I liad no manner of Occafion 
for. 

Upon the whole, I concluded, that neither ir^ 
Principles, nor in Po icy, I ought one way or other to 
concern myfelf in this Affair. That my Bufmefs 
was by all pofTible Means to conceal myfelf from 
them, and not to leave the leaff Signal to them to 
guefs by, that there were any living Creatures up- 
on the Ifland ; I mean of human Shape. 

Religion joyn'd in with this Prudential, and I was 
convinced now many Ways, that I was perfedly out 
of my Duty, when I was laying all my bloody 
Schemes for the Deftrudion of innocent Creatures, 
I mean innocent as to me : As to the Crimes they 
were guilty of towards one another, I had nothing 
to do With them ; they were National, and I ought 
to leave them to the Jailice of God, who is tiie 
Governoar of Nations, and knows how by Na- 
tional Punifhments to make a jiifl: Retribution for 
National Oif-nces ; and to brir.g publick Judg- 
ments upon thofe who otfend in a publick Manner, 
by fuch Ways as beft pleafes him. 

This appear'd fo clear to me now, that nothing 
was a greater Satisfaction to me, than that I had 
not been fufi-er'd to do a Thing which I now faw 
fo much Reafon to believe would have been no lefs 
a Sin, than that of wilful Murder, if I had com- 

micted 



[ ao5 ] 

mittcd it ; and I gave moH humble Thanks on my 
Knees to God, that had thus delivered me from 
Blood- guiltinefs, befeeching him to grant me the 
Protection of his Providence, that I might not fall 
in:o the Hands of the Barbarians; or that I might 
not lay myHands upon them, unlefs I had a more 
clear Call from Heaven to do it, in Defence of my 
own Liie. 

In this Difpofition I continued for near a Year 
after this,- and fo far was I from defiring an Oc* 
cafion for fallmg upon thefe Wretches, that in all 
that Time I never once went up the HiU to foe 
whether there were any of them in light, or to 
know whether any of them had been on Shore 
there, or not, that 1 migh: not be tempted to re- 
new any oFmy Contrivances againfl them, or be 
provoked by any Advantage which might prefentit 
felf, to fail upon them; only this 1 did, I went and 
removed my Boat which J had on the other Side 
the liland, and carried it down to the Eaji-End of 
the whole Illand, where I ran it into a little Cove 
which I found under fome high Recks, and where 
I knew, by reafon of the Currents, the Savages durit 
nor, at lead would not come with their Boats, up- 
on any Account wharfoever. 

With my Boat I carried away every Thing that 
I had left there belonging to her, though not ne- 
cellary for the bare going thither, viz.. a Mafl and 
Sail which I had made for her, and a Thin<» like 
an Anchor, but indeed which could not be ^cail'd 
either Anchor or Graphng ; however, it was the 
beft I could make of its kind. All thefe I remov'd 
that there might not be the leaft Shadow of any 
Difcovery, or any Appearance of any Boat, or of 
any human Habitation upon the IGand. 

Befides this, 1 kept my fcU] as I faid, more re- 
tired than ever, and feldom went from my Cell, o- 

ther 



[205] 

iher than upon my conftant Employment, "jiz.. To 
milk my She-Goast^ and manage my lictle Flock iii 
the Wood ; which as it was quite on the other Part 
of the Ifland, was quite out of Danger ; for certain 
it is, that thefe Savage People, who fometimes 
hau/ited this Ifland, never came with any Thoughts 
<Df finding any thing here j and confequently never 
wandred off from the Coaft 7 and I doubt not, but 
they might have been feveral times on Shore, after 
iny Apprehenfions of them had made me cauticu s as 
well as before i and indeed, I lookM back witH 
fome Horror upon the Thoughts of what my Con- 
dition would have been, if I had chop'd upon them, 
and been difcover'd before that, when naked and 
unarmed, except with one Gun, and that loaden 
often only with fmall Shot. I walk'd every where 
peeping and peering about the Ifland, to fee what 
I could get ; what a Surprife fliould I have been in, 
if when I difcover'd the Print of a Man's Foot, I 
had inflead of that feen fifteen or twenty Savages, 
and found them purfuing me, and by the Swiftnefs 
of their Running, no PolTibility of my efcaping 
them? 

The Thoughts of this fometimes funk my very 
Soul within me, and diflrefs'd my Mind fo much 
that I could not foon recover it, to think what I 
Ihould have done, and how 1 not only fhould not 
have been able to refift them, but even fhould not 
have had Prefence of Mind enough to do what I 
might have donej much l^k^ what now after (o 
much Confideration and Preparation I might be a- 
ble to do : Indeed, after ferious thinking of thefe 
Things, I fhould be very melancholy* and fome- 
times it would lafla great while j but I refolv'd it 
at lafl all into Thankfulnefs to that Providence, 
which had deliver'd me from fo many unfeen Dan- 
gers, and had kept me from diofe Mifchiefs which 

1 CQuld 



[ ioy, ] ... , 

t could no way have been the Agent in dehVering 
my felt from; becaufe I had not the leaf!: Notion of 
any fuch thing depending, or the leaft Suppoiitioix 
otit being poiTible. 

This renew'd a Contemplation, which often had 
come to my Thoughts in former Time^ when Hrfl 
I began to fee the merciful Difpofitions of Heaven^ 
in the Dangers we run through in this Life. How 
wonderfully we are deliver'd, when we know no- 
thing ofit. How, when we are in (a Qimndary^ as 
we call it) a Doubt or Hefitation, whether to go 
this Way, or that Way, a fecret Hint Ihall dired 
us ^his Way, when we intended to go that Way ; 
nay, when Senfe, our own Inclin^ition, and perhaps 
Bufinefs has call'd to go the other Way,yet a ftrange 
Impreffion upon the Mind, for we know not what 
Springs, and by we know not what Power, fhaii o- 
ver-rule us to go this Way, and it fhall afterwards 
appear, that had we gone that Way which we would 
have gone, and even to our Imagination ought to 
have gone, we fhould have been ruin'd and loft. 
Upon thefe, and many like Reflexions, I after- 
wards made it a certain Rule with me, That when- 
ever I found thofe fecret Hints, or Preflings of my 
Mind, to doing, or not doing any Thing that pre- 
fented , or to going this Way, or that VVay, I never 
fail'd to obey the fecret Didate, though I knew no 
other Reafon for it, then that fuch a PreiTure, or 
fuch a Hint hung upon my Mind : I could give ma" 
ny Examples of the Succefs of this Condud in the 
Courfe of my Life ; but more efpecially in the lat- 
ter Part of my inhabiting this unhappy liland ; be- 
fides many Occasions which it is very likely I might 
have taken notice of, if I had feen with the fame 
Eyes then, that I faw with now : But 'tis never too 
late to be wife ; and I cannot but advife all confi- 
dering Men, whofe Lives are attended with fuch ex- 
traordinary 



[ 208 ] 

traordinary Incidents as mine, or even though not 
{o extraordinary, not to flight fuch fecrct Intima- 
tions of Providence, let them come from what in- 
vifible Intelligence they wjll, that I fhall not diC- 
cufs, and perhaps cannot account tor ; but cer- 
tainly they are a Proof of the Converfe of Spirits, 
and the fecret Communication between thofe em- 
body 'd, and thofe unembody'd j and fuch a Proof 
as can never be withftood : Of which I fliall have 
Occafion to give feme very remarkable Inflanccs, 
in the Remainder ot my fclitary Reiidence in this 
difmal Place. 

1 believe the Reader of this will not think 
flrange, if 1 confefs that thefe Anxieties, thefecon- 
flant Dangers 1 liv'd in, and the Concern that was 
now upon me, put an End to all Invention, and to 
all the Contrivances that I had laid for my future 
Accom-modations and Conveniencies. I had the 
Care of my Safety more now upon my Hands than 
that of my Food. 1 car'd not to drive a Nail, or 
chop a Stick of Wood now, for fear the Noife I 
fliould make, fnould be heard; much lefs v/ould I 
fire a Gun, for the fame Reafon ; and above all, I 
was intolerably uneafy at making any Fire, leli: 
the Smoke, which is vifible at a great Diflance in 
the Day, fhould betray me; and fortius Reafcn I 
removed that Part of my Bufmcfs which required 
Fire ; fr.ch as burning of Pocs and Pipes, &c. in- 
to my new Apartment in the Woods, where, af- 
ter I had been fome time, I found, to my unfpeak- 
able Confolarion, a meer natural Cave in the Earth, 
which went in a vaft Way, and where, I dare fay, 
no Savage had been at the Mouth of it, or would 
be fo hardy as to venture in, nor indeed would a- 
ry Man elfe, but one wh.o, like me, wanted no- 
tnnig fo much as a fafe Retreat. 

The 



[ -^09 ] 

The Mouth of this Hollow was at the Bottom 
of a gr-wat Rock, where by meer Accident ( I 
would CdYj if I did not (ee abundant Reafon to af- 
cribe ad [i\ch Things now to Providence) I was 
cuttiiig down fome thick Branches of Trees to 
make Charcoal ; and before I go on, I muft obferve 
the Reafon of my making this Charcoal, which 
was thus: 

I was ah'aid oF making a Smoke about my Ha- 
bitation, as I faid before; and yet I could not live 
there without baking my Bread, cooking my Meat, 
&c. To I contrived to burn feme Wood here, as I 
had [^Qn done in Eniland^ under Tur^, till it be- 
came Chark, or dry Coal j and then putting the 
Fire oat, Ipreferv'd the Coal to carry Home, and 
perform the other Services, which Fire was want- 
ing for at Home, without Danger of Smoke. 

But this by the by. While I was cutting down 
fome Wood here, I perceived, that behind a very 
thick Branch of low Brufhwood, or Undenvood, 
there was a kind of hollow P. ace. I was curious 
to look into it ; and getting with Difficulty into 
the Mouth of it, I found it was pretty large, that 
is to fay, fuificicnt for me to (land upright in it, 
and perhaps another with me ,• but I muft confefs 
to you, I made more hade out than I did in, when 
looking tarther into the Place, and whicli was per- 
fectly dark, I faw two broad fhining Eyes of foms 
Creature, whether Devil or Man, I knew nor, 
which twinkled like two Stars, the dim Light 
from the Cave's Mouth fhining directly in, and ma- 
king the Reflexion. 

However, afcer fome Paufe, I recovered my (c\^^ 
and began to call myfelf a thoufand Fools, and 
tell myfelf, that he that was airaid to fee the De- 
vil, was not fit to live twenty Years in an Ifland all 
alone \ and that I durll tQ believe there was no- 

P thing 



..•r 
^■^ 



[ilO] 

thing in this Cave that was more frightful tlian my 
felf; upon this, plucking up my Courage, I took 
up a great Firebrand, and in I mih'd again, with 
tlie Scick flaming in my Hand ; 1 had not gone 
three Sieps in, bur I was almoft as much frighted 
as I was before ; for I heard a very loud Sigh, like 
that of a Man in fome Pain, and it was folio w'd 
by a broken Noife, as if of Words ha'f exprefs'd, 
and then a deep Sigh again : I flep'd back, and 
Avas, indeed, ftruck with fuch a Surprize, that it 
put me into a cold Sweat ; and it I had had a Hat 
on my Head, I will not anfwer for it, that my Hair 
might not have lifted it off. But ftill plucking up 
my Spirits as well as I could, and encouraging my 
felf a little, v/ith confidering that the Power and 
Prefcnce of God was every where, and was able 
to protcd me : Upon this I flep'd forward again, 
and by the Light of the Firebrand, holding it up 
a little over my Head, I faw lying on the Ground 
a moft monftrous frightful old He-goat, juff making 
his Will, as we fay, and gafping for Life, and dy- 
ing indeed of meer old Age, 

I ffirr'd him a little, to fee if I could get him 
out, and he elTay'd to get up, but was not able to 
raife himfelf ; and I thought with myfclf, he might 
even lie there ; for if he had trightcd me fo, he 
would certainly fright any of the Savages, if any 
of them fhould be fo hardy as to come in there, 
while he had any Life in him. 

I was now recovered from my Surprize, and be- 
gan to look round me, when 1 found the Cave was 
but very fmall, that is to fay, it might be about 
twelve Foot over, but in no manner of Shape, ei- 
ther round or fquare, no Hands having ever been 
employed in making it, but thcfe of meer Nature. 
I obferv'd alfo, that there was a Place at the far- 
ther Side of ic, that went in farther, but was fo 

low. 



low, that it required me to creep upon my Hands 
and Knees to go into it, and whither I wem. I 
knew no: ; To having no Candle, I gave it over 
for fome Time ,* but refolv'd to come again the 
next Day provided with Candles, and a Tinder- 
box, which I had made of the Lock ot one of the 
Muskets, with fome Vv^ild-fire in the Pan. 

Accordingly) the next Day I came provided 
with lix large Candles of my own making ; for I 
made very good Candles now of Goats-fallow; 
and going into this low Place, I was oblig'd to 
creep upon all Fours, as I have faid, almoft iCii 
Yards ; which, by the way, I thought was a Ven- 
ture bold enough, confidermg that I knew not how 
far it might go, nor what was beyond it. When I 
wat got through the Strait, I found the Roof rofe 
higher up, I believe near twenty Foot ; but never 
was fuch a glorious Sight feen in the Ifland, I dare 
fay, as it was, to look round the Sides and Roof 
ot this Vault or Cave -, the Walls refleded a hun- 
dred thoufand Lights to me from my two Can- 
dles,* what it was in the Rock, whether Diamonds, 
or any other precious Stones, or Gold, which I 
r.,ther fuppos'd it to be, I knew not. 

The Place I was in, Was a moil: delightful Ca- 
vity, or Grotto, of its Kind, as could be expeded, 
though perfectly dark ; the Floor was dry and 
level, and had a fort of fmall loofe Gravel upon 
it, fo that there was no naufeous or venomous 
Creature to be feen, neither was there any Damp 
or Wet on the Sides or Roof: The only Difficulty 
in it was the Entrance, which, however, as it 
was a Place of Security, and fuch a Retreat as I 
wanted, I tliought that was a Convenience; fo 
that I was really rejoyc'd at the Difcovery, and re- 
folv'd, without any Delay, to bring fome of thofe 
Thmgs which I was moft anxious about to this 

P 2 Place,- 



[ ili 1 

Place; particularly, I refolv'd to bring hithei mj 
Magazine ot PoAvder, and all my fpaje Arms, viz^. 
Two Fowling- Pieces, (For I had three in all) and ■ 
three Muskets, (tor ot them I had eight in all ;) fo 
I kept at my Caftle only five, which Hood ready 
mounted, like Pieces of Cannon, on my outnTicft 
Ferx-e ; and were ready alio to take out upon any 
Expedition. 

Upon this Occafion oF removing my Ammunr- 
tion, I took Occaiion to open the Barrel of Powder 
which 1 took up out of the Sea, and which had 
been wet ; and 1 fo^.nd that the Water had pene- 
trated about three or four Indies into the Powder 
on every Side, which caking and growing hard> 
had pref^rv'd the Infide like a Kernell m the Shell j 
fo that I had near fixty Pound of very good Pow- 
der in th- Centre of the Cask,- and this was an a* 
greeable Difcov ery to me at that Time ; fo I car- 
ry'd all away thidier, never keeping above two 
or three Pound of Powder with me in my Caftle^ 
for fear of a Surprize of any Kind : lalfo carr)'d 
thither all the Lead 1 had left forBuhets. 

I fanc}'d myfelf now like one of the ancient 
Giants, which were (aid to live in Caves and Holes 
in the Rock^, where none could come at them ; 
for I petfuaded myfelf, while 1 was here, if five: 
hundred Savages were to iiunt me, they could ne- 
ver find me oat ; or if they didy they would not 
vc!;ture to arrack me here. ^ 

The old Goat, who I found expiring, dy'd in 
the Mouth of the Cave, the r,c\t Day afcer I made 
this Difcovery; and I fo.md it m:,ch eaiier to dig 
a great Hole .here, and throw him in, and cover 
him with Lartii, than to drag him out : So I in- 
tcr'd him there^ to prevent Orf-nce to my 
Nof^. 

I was 



[ ii3 ] 

I was now in my twenty third Year of Refi- 
d.ence in this Ifland, and was fo naturah'z'd to the 
Piace, and to the Manner of Living, that could 
I have but enjoy 'd tlie Certainty, that no Savages 
would come to the Place to diiturb me, I could 
have been content to have capitulated lor fpending 
the reft of my Time there, even to the laft Mo- 
ment, till I had laid we down and dy'd, like the old 
Goat in the Cave. I had alfo arrivd to fome little 
Diveriionsand Amufements, which made the Time 
pafs m.or^ pleafantly with me a great deal, than 
It did before ; as Hrft, I had taught my Ptll, as I 
noted before, to fpeak^ and he did it fo familiarly, 
and talk'd fo articulately and plain, that it was 
very pleafant to me ; and he lived v^ith me no lefs 
than lix and twenty Years. How long he might 
liy.e afterwards, I know not ; tho' I know they 
have a Notion m the BvafiU^ that they live a hun- 
dred Years i perhaps poor Pdl may be alive there 
flii), calling after P^ori?c'Z'/.7.07.;/cii? to this Day. I 
wifh no Englijiy[i\\ the ill Luck to portie there ancj 
hear him ; but if he did, he would certainly believe 
it was the Devil. My Y)o% was a very pleafant 
and loving Companion to me for no lefs than lix- 
tecn Years of my Time, and then dy'd of meer 
old Age ,• as for my Cats, they multiply^, as I have 
obferv'd, to that Djgrec, that I was obliged tofiioot 
fcvcral of them at hrft, to keep them from devour- 
ing me and all I. had \ but at length, when the 
two old ones' I brought with me, were gone, and 
after {oxn^ Time continually driving them from me, 
and letting them have no Provifion with me, they 
ail ran wild into the Woods, except two or three 
Favourites, which I kept tame \ and whofe Young, 
when they had any, I always drown'd j and thefe 
were Part of my Family. Beiides tiiefe I always 
l^ept two or three Houlhold Kids about me> which I 
P 3' ' taught 



[ ii4 ] 

taught to Teed out of my Hand ; and I had two 
more Parrots wh'ch talk''d prcut} we , and wo.Jd 
all call Rol;m C>ufoe, but none like myfirftj norj 
indeed, didl take the Pains with any of them that 
I had done with him. I had alfo feveral tame Sea- 
Fowls, whofe Names I knew nor, who I cau.ght 
upon the Snore, and cut their Wings j and tiie lit- 
tle Stakes which I had planted betore my Caftle- 
Wall being now^grown up to a good thick Grove, 
thefe Fowls all livM ^mong thele low Trees, and 
bred there, which was very agreeable to me ; fo 
that, as I faid above, I began to be very w eil con- 
tented with the Life I Jed, iF it might but have 
beenfccur'd from the Dread of the Savages. 

But it was OtheL-wife direded ; and it may not be 
amifs for ail People who (hall meet with my Story, 
to make thic juft Obfervation from it, 'viz,. How 
frequently, in tlie Courl'e of our Lives, the Evil 
which in icfelf we feek mod tolhun, and which, 
when we are fallen into, is the moft dreadful to 
us, is oftentimes the very Means or Door of our 
Deliverance, by which alone we can be rais\l again 
from the AiRidipn we are fallen into. I could give 
many Examples of this in the Courfe oi: my unac- 
countable Lite ; but in nothing was it m.ore parti- 
cularly reir.arkable, than in the Circumilances of 
my hilt Years of folitary Relidence in this liland. 

It was now the Month of Detember^zs I faid 
above, ixi my tv/enty third Year ; and this being the 
Southern So.fticc, for Winter I cannot call it, was 
the particular Time of my Harveft, and required 
my being pretty much abroad in the Fields ,• when 
going out pretty early m the Morning, even before 
n wasthorow Day-liglit, I was fu rpri/d with fee- 
'];;g a Light of fome Fire upon the Shore, at a Di- 
ji;anv.e fiom nis, of about two Miles towards the 
lind ofihc llla:;d_^ where 1 had cbicrv'd fbme Sa- 
vages 



[ii5] 

vages had bGen, as before, but r;ot on the other 
Bide ; but, to my great Afliidion, it was on my 
Side of the Illand. 

I was indeed terribly furpriz'd at the Sight and 
ftept'd fliort within my Grove, not daring to go 
out, left I might be furpriz'd ; and yet I had no 
more Peace within, from the Apprehenfions I had, 
that if thefe Savages, in rambling over the Ifland, 
fhould find my Corn ftanding, or cut, or any of my 
Works and Improvements, they would immediate- 
ly conclude, that there were People in the Place, 
and would then never give over till they had found 
me out. In this Extremity I went back diredly to 
my Caftle, pull'd up the Ladder after me, and made 
all Things without look as wild and natural as I 
could. 

Tlien I prepar'd myfcif within, puttingmy felf 
in a Pofture of Defence; I loaded all my Cannon, 
^s 1 call'd them ; that is to fay, my Muskets, which 
were mounted upon my new Fortification, and all 
my Piftols, and refolv'd to defend my felf to the 
Jail: Gafp, not forgetting feriouily to commend my 
felf to the divine Protection, and earneftly to pray 
to God to deliver me out of the Hands of the Bar- 
barians; and in this Pofture I continued abouttwo 
Hours, but began to be mighty impatient for In- 
telligence abroad, for I had no Spies to fend out. 

Afteriittinga while longer, and mufing what I 
fhould do in this Cafe, J was not able to bear fit- 
ting in Ignorance any longer ; fo fetting up my 
Ladder to the Side of: the Hill, where there was a 
flat Piace, as I obferv'd before, and then pulling 
the Ladder up after me, I fet it up again, and 
mounted to the Top of the Hill, and pulling out 
my Profpeftive-Glafs, which I had taken on pur- 
pofe, I laid me down flat on my Belly on the 
Ground, and began to look for the Place. I pre- 

P 4 fently 



[216] 



fently found there was no lefsthan nine nakej Sa- 
vages fitting round a fmall Fire they liad made, uoC 
to warm them;, tor they had no need of that, the 
Weather being exireme hot ; but as I fuppos'd, to 
drefs fome of thCir barbarous Diet of human Fleft, 
which they had bro.:ght with them, whetljer alive 
or dead, I could not know. 

They had two Canes with them, which they 
had haled up upon the Shore ; and as it was then 
Tide of Ebb, they feemVi to me to wait tor the 
Return of the Flood to go away again; it is not 
eafy to imagine what Confulion ihis Sight put me 
into, efpeciaiiy feeing them come on my Side the 
Iliand, and fo near me too ; but when 1 obferv'd 
their com.ing mull be always with the Current of 
the Ebb, I began afterwards to be more fedate in 
my Mind, being fatisfy'd that I might go Abroad 
with Safety all the Time of the Tide of Flood, if 
they were not on Shore before: And having made 
this Obfervation, I wer.t Abroad about my Har- 
veil-work with the more Compofure. 

As I expeded, fo ir prov'd ; for as foon as the 
Tide made to the VVeftward, I faw them all take 
Boat, and row (or paddle, as we call it) all away. 
1 fliould have obferv^'d, that for an Hour and more 
before they went off, they w^ent to dancing, and I 
could eafily difcern their Poftures and Geflures 
by my Glafies; I could not perceive by my nicefl 
Obfervation, but that they wereftark naked, and 
had not the leaft Covering upon them ; but v/he- 
ther th'ey were Men or Women, that I could not 
Giilinguiih. 

' As foon as I faw them fnipp'd and gone, I took 
two Guns upon" my Shoulders, and two Piflols at 
my Girdle, and my great Sword by my Sic \ with- 
out a Scabbard, and with all the Speed I was able 
to make, I went away to the Hill, where I had dif- 

. cover'd 



[ it7 ] 

covcr'd the firft Appearance of all ; and as foon as 
I gat thirher, which was not lefs than two Hours, 
(tor I could not go apace, being fo loaden with 
Arms as I was) I perceived there had been three 
Canoes more of Savages in that Place ; and looking 
out farther, I faw they were all at Sea together, 
making over for the Main. 

This was a dreadful Sight to me, efpecially 
when going down to the Shore, I could fee the 
Marks of Horror which the difmal Work they had 
been about, had left behind it, i^/z,. the Blood, the 
Bones, ^nd Part of the Flefh of human Bodies, 
eaten and devoured by thofe Wretches, with Mer- 
riment and Sport : I was fo fiird with Indignation 
at the Sight, that I began now to premeditate the 
Deflrixtion of uhenext that I faw there, let them be 
who or how many foever. 

It fecm'd evident to me, that the Vifits which 
they thus make to this Ifland, are not very frequent; 
for it is above fifceen Months before any more of 
them came on Shore there again ; that is to fay, I 
I neither faw them, or any Footfteps, or Signals 
of them, in all that Time ; for as to the rainy 
Seafon?, then they are fure not to come Abroad, 
at lead: not fo far ; yet all this while I liv'd un- 
comiortably, by reafon of the conftant Apprehen- 
fjons I was in ot their coming upon me by Surprize; 
from whence I obferve, that the Expedation Ol E- 
vil is more bitter than the Suffering, efpecially if 
there is no Room to ftake of that Expedation, or 
thofe Apprehenlions. 

During all this time, I was in the murdering 
Humour, and took up moil of my Flours, which 
lliould have been better employ 'd, in contriving 
how to circunivent and fall upon them, the very- 
next Time I fliould fee them ^ efpecially if they 
flioald be divided, as they were the lad Time, in- 
^' to 



[ii8] 

to two Parties ; nor did I confider at all, that if 
1 kiird one Party, fuppofe Te i or a Dozen, ] waa 
ftill the next Day, or We ' or Month, to kill 
another, and fo another, e\eii ad infinitujny till I 
fhould be at length no lefs a .Murderer than they 
were in being Man-eaters, and perhaps much more 

I l^xnt my Days now in great Perplexity and 
Anxiety ot Mind, expecting that I fliould one Day 
or other fall into the Hands of thefemereileis Crea- 
tures ; and if 1 did at any time venture abroad, ic 
was not without looking round me with the great- 
eft Care and Caution imaginable i and now I loiuid 
to my great Comtort, i^ow happy it was that I 
provided for a tame Flock or Herd of Goats ,• for 
I durft nor, upon any Account, hre my Gun,efpe- 
cially near that Side of the Ifland where they ufu- 
ally came, left I ftiould alarm the Savages; and 
ii they had fled from me now, I was fure to have 
them come back again with, perhaps, two or three 
hundred Canoes with them in a few Days, and then 
1 knew what to expeft. 

However, 1 wore out a Year and three Months 
more, before I ever faw any more of tiie Savages, 
and then I found them again, as 1 fhall Toon ob- 
ferve. It is true, they might have been -there once 
or twice, but either they made no Stay, or at leaft 
1 did not hear them i but in the Month of May, as 
near as I could calculate, and in my four and twen- 
tieth Year, I had a \ery ftrange Encounter with 
them, of which in its place. 

The Perturbation of my Mind, during this ^i- 
tceu or fixteen Months Interval, was yery great j 
I Ilcpt unquiet, dream'd always frightful Dreams, 
and often ftarted out of my Sleep in the Night : In 
the Day great Troubles ovcrwheim'd my Mind, 
a;ni in the Night I dream'd often of killing the 

Savages 



[ ii9 ] 

Savages, and of the Reafons why I might juflify 
the doing of it : But to wave all this for a while, 
it was in the Middle o(May, on the fixteenth Day 
I think, as well as my poor wooden Calendar 
would reckon ; for I marked all upon the Pofl: flill ; 
I fay, it was the fixteenth of Mayy that it blew a 
very great Storm of Wind, all Day, with a great 
deal of Lightning and Thunder, and a very foul 
Night it was after it : I know not what was the 
particular Occafion of it; but as I was reading in 
the Bible, and taken up with very ferious Thoughts 
about my prefent Condition, I wasfurprizM with 
a Noife of a Gun, as I thought, fir'd at Sea. 

This was to be fure a Surprize of a quite diffe- 
rent Nature from any I had met with before ; for 
the Notions this put into my Thoughts were quite 
of another Kind. I flarted up in the greateft Hafle 
imaginable, and in a trice clapt my Ladder to the 
middle Place of the Rock, and pull'd it after me, 
and mounting it the fecond Time, got to the Top 
of the Hill the very Moment that a Flafh of Fire 
bid me liftenfor a fecond Gun, which accordingly, 
in about half a Minute, I heard, and by the Sound, 
knew that it was from that Part of the Sea where 
I was driven down the Current in my Boat. 

I immediately confider'd that this muft be fome 
Ship in Diihefs, and that they had fome Comrade, 
or fome other Ship in Company, and fir'd thefe Guns 
for Signals of Diilrefs, and to obtain Help, I had 
thisPrefencc of Mind at that Minute, as to think, 
that though I could not help them, it may be 
they might help me ; fo I brought together all the 
dry Wood I could get at hand, and making a good 
handfomc Pile, I iet it on Fire upon the Hill ; the 
Wood was dry, and blaz'd freely ; and though the 
Wind blevv^ very hard, yet it burnt fairly out ; that 
I was certain, if there was any fuch Thing as a 

Ship, 



Ship, they miiil needs fee ity and no doiiLt cliey 
did : for as foon as ever my Fire blaz'd up, 1 iieard 
another Gun, and after thatleveral ethers, all from 
the fanfie Qiiarter. I ply'd my Fire all Night long, 
till Day broke; and when it was broad Day, and 
the Air cleared up, I law fometh'ing at a great Dl- 
fiance at Sea, full Enfi of the Ifland, whether a 
Sail, or a Hl;11, I could not diriinguifli, no not 
with my Glalfes, the Diftance was fo great, and 
tlie Weather flill fomething hazey alfc ; at Jeaft ic 
was fo out at Sea. 

I look'd frequently at it all that Day, and foon 
perceiv'd that it did not move i fol prefentiy con- 
cluded that it was a Ship at an Anchor; and being 
ciiger, you may be fure, to be fatisFy'd, I took my 
Gun in my Hand, and run toward the South Side of 
the Kland, to tljC Rock^ where I had formerly been 
carry'd away with tlie Current, and getting up 
there, the Weather by this Time being pertectiy 
clear, I could plainly fee, to my great Sorrow, the 
Wreck of a Ship caff av>ay in the Night, ijpon 
thiofe concealed Rocks which I found when I was 
our in my Boat ; and which Rocks, as they clieck'd 
the Violence of the Stream, and made a kind of 
Counter Stream, or Eddy, were the OccaHon of my 
recovering horn the moft dcfperate hopcleis Con- 
dition that ever I liad been m in all my Life. 

Thus vv'hat is one Man's Safety, is another Man ^ 
Peftruction ; for it ieems thefeMen, whoever they 
were, being out of tlie Knowledge, and the Rocks 
bein';^ whoTiy under Water, had been driven up- 
on them in the Night, the Wind blowing hard at 
E. and £. N. E. Had tiiey ken the Ifiand, as I mu^t 
neceilarily K;ppofe tlicy did not, thxy muff, as I 
tiaor.gh:, havi- endeavoL:r'd to i:iavc fav'd themk'vcs 
on Shore by the Help ofth.eir Boat; but their Hnng 
jq[ Guns for Help, tfpeciaily when they faw, as i 

imaerin'd. 



[ i^I J 

smagin'J;, iny Fire, fill a me with many Thoughts, 
Fi'rft I imagjn'd, that upon feeing my Light, they 
might h.\ve put themfelves into their Boat and 
have endeavonr'd to make the Shore ; but that the 
Sea going very high, they might have been cail 
away ,* other times I imagined, that they might 
have loft their Boat before, as might be the Cafe 
many Wa}sj as particularly, by the Breaking of 
the S^a upon their Ship, which many times obli^ 
ges Men to ftarve, or take in Pieces their Boat > 
and fometimer to throw it over Board with theit 
own Hands : Other times I imaging, they had 
fome ocher Ship or Ships in Company, who upon 
the Signals of Diftrefs they had made, had taken 
them up, and carry 'd them off: Others whiles 1 
fancy'd, they were all gone oft'to S.^a in their Boat, 
and being hurryM away by the Current that I 
had been formerly in, v/ere carry \i out into the 
great Ocean where there was nothing but Miferv 
and Periihing; and that perhaps they might by 
this Time think of Starving, and of being in a 
Condition to eat one another. 

As all thefe were but Conjciftures at heft, fo in 
the Condicion I was in, 1 could do no more than 
look on upon the Mifery of the poor Men, and 
pity them, which had iliill this good Effed: on 
my Side, that it gave me more and more Caufe 
to give Thanks to God, who had lo happily and 
comfortably provided for me in my defolate Con- 
dition ; and that of tvv^o Ships Companies who were 
now caft away upon this Part of the World, not 
one Life fhould be fp.rM but mine : I learn 'd here 
again to obferve, that it is very rare that the Pro- 
vidence of God calls us into any Condition of Life 
fo low, or any Mifery fo great, but we may fee 
fomethingor ocher to be thankful for ,* and may fee 
others in woric Circumflaixcs than our own. 

Such 



[ 221 ] 

Such certainly was the Cafe of thefe Men, of 
whom I could not io much as fee R.oom to fup- 
pofe any of them were fav'd ; nothing could make 
it rational, fo much as to wifii or expect that they 
did not all perifh there, except the Poffibility on- 
ly of their being taken up by another Ship in Com- 
pany ; and this was but meer PoiTibility indeed ; 
for I faw not the leall Signal or Appearance of any 
fuch Thing. 

I cannot explain, by any poffible Energy of Words, 
what a ftraijge Longing or Hankering of Defires I 
felt in my Soul upon this Sight ; breaking out fome- 
times thus; O that there had been but one or two ; 
nay, or but one Soul fav'd out of this Ship, to 
have efcap'd to me, that I might but have had one 
Companion, one Fellow-Creature to have fpokeii 
to me, and to have conversed with ! In all the Time 
of my folitary Life, I never felt fo earneH:, (o ftrong 
a Delireafier the Society of my Fellow-Creatures, 
or fo deep a Regret at the Want of it. 

There are fome fecret moving Springs in the Af- 
fe6:ions, which when they are let a going by fome 
Object in View, or Le it fome Object, tho' not 
in View, yet rendered prefent to the Mind by the 
Power of J.maizination, that Motion carries out 
the Soul by its Lnpetuofity to fuch violent eager 
Embracings of the Objed, that the Abfence of it 
is infupportablc. 

Sucn were thefe earnefl Wi filings, That but one 
Man had been fav*d ! O that it bad been but Otie! I 
believe I repeated the Words, O that tt had been but 
One, a thoufand Times ', and the Defires were fo 
mov'd by n^ that when I fpoke the Words, my 
Hards would clinch together, and my Finger prefs 
the Palms of m.y Hands, that i[. I had had any foft 
Thing in m.y Hand, it would have crufli'd it invo- 
luntarily; and my Teeth in^tny Head would ftrike 

together. 



[ ^^3 ] 

togetlici'j and fet againft one another Co ftrong, that 
Foi* tome tinie I could noc part them again. 

Let the Naturah'fls explain thefe Things^, and 
the Reafon and Manner of them ; all I can (kyto 
them, is, to defcribe the Fad, which was even 
furprizing to me when I found it; though I knew 
not from what it (hould proceed, it was doubtlefs 
the Eff-ed: ot ardent V/ifhes, and of flrong Ideas 
form'd in my Mind, realizing the Comfort which 
the Converfation of one of my Fellow-Chriflians 
would have been to me. 

But it was not to be j either their Fate or mine, 
or bothi forbad it; for till the laft Year of my be- 
ing on this Itland, I never knew wiiether any 
were fav'd out of that Ship or no; and had only 
the Afflidion fome Days after, to fee the Corps of 
a drown'd Boy come on Shore, at the End of the 
Iiland, which was next the Shipwreck : He had on 
no CI oaths but a Seaman's Waft coat, a Pair of 
open-knee'd Linnen Drawers, and a blue Linnen 
Shirt; but nothing to direft me fo much as to 
guefs what Nation he was of. He hadnothingia 
his Pocket but two Pieces of Eight and a Tobac- 
co-pipe ; the laft was to me of ten times more Va- 
lue than the (irft. 

It was now calm, and I had a great Mind to 
venture out in my Boat to this Wreck, not doubt- 
ing but I might find fomething en Board that 
might be iifeful to me; but that did not altogether 
prefs me Co much, as the Poiftbilicy that there 
might be yet fome living Creature on Board, whofc 
Lite I might not only fave, but might, bv faving 
that Life, comfort my own to the laft Degree ; 
and this Thought clung fo to my Heart, that I 
could not be quiet Night nor Day, but I muft: 
venture out in my Boat on Board this \Vreck ; and 
committing the reft: to God's Providence, I thought 

die 



[ 224 ] 

the ImprciTion was (o flrong upon my Mind, that 
it could not be rciiilcd, that it mull: come from 
fome invifible Dircftion, and that I (hould be want- 
ing to my felt, if 1 did not go. 

Under the Power of this ImpreiTion I haften^d 
back to my Caftle, prepar'd every Thing for my 
Voyage, took a Quantity of Bread, a great Pot for 
frefh Water, a Compafs to ftcer by, a Bottle of 
Rum, for I had ftill a great deal of that left j a Ba(- 
ket full of Raiiins. And thus loading myfelfwith 
every Thing necelfary, I went down to my Boat, 
got the Water out of hetj and got her afloat, load- 
ed all my Cargo in her, and then went Home a- 
gain for more ,* my fecond Cargo was a great B:}g 
full of Rice, the Umbrello to fet up over my Head 
for Shade, another large Pot full of frefli Water, 
and about two Dozen of my fmall Loaves, or 
Barley-Cakes, more than before, with a Bottle of 
Goat's-Milk and a Cheefc ; Ail which, with great 
Labour and Sweat, I brought to my Boat i and 
praying to God to direct my Voyage, I put out, 
and rowing or paddling the Canoe along the Shore, 
I came at laft to the utmoft Point of the Ifland 
on that Side, ('viz..) N. E And now I was to launch 
out into the Ocean, and either to venture, or not 
to venture. I look a on the rapid Currents which 
ran conftantly on both Sides of the Ifland, at a 
Diftance, and which were very terrible to me, 
from the Remembrance oF the Hazard I had been 
in before, and my Heart began to fail me i for I 
forelaw that i^ I was driven into either of thofe 
Currents, I flionld be carry 'd a vaft Way out to 
Sea, and perhaps out of my Reach, or Sight of the 
liland again ; and that then, as my Boat was but 
fmall, it' any little Gale of Wind (liould rife, I 
lliould be inevitably loft. 

Thefc 



[ 115] 

Thefp Thoughts To opprefs'd my Mind, that I 
begt^p.to give over my lincerprize, and having ha- 
led my Boat into a little Creek on the Shore, I 
ftept out, and fate me down upon a little riling Bit 
of Ground, very penfive and anxious, between Feat 
and Defire about my Voyage j when as I was mil- 
ling, I could perceive that the Tide was turn'd, 
and the Flood came on ; upon which my going 
was for To many Hours impradicable : Upon this^ 
prefently ic occur'd to me, that I fhould go up to 
the higheft Piece of Ground I could find, and ob- 
ferve, if I could, how the Sees of the Tide, or Cur- 
rents lay, when the Fiood came in, that I might 
judge whether if I was driven one Way out, I might 
not exped to be driven another Way Home, with 
the fame Rapidnefsofthe Currents: This Thought 
was no fooner in my Head, but I cad my Eye up- 
on a little Hill, which fufficiently overlooked the 
Sea both Ways, and from whence I had a clear 
View of the Currents, or Sets of the Tide, and 
which Way I was to guide myfelf in my Return ; 
here I found, that as the Current of the Ebb fet 
out clofe by the South Point of the Ifland, fo the 
Current of the Flood fet in clofe by the Shore of 
the N^rth Side, and that I had nothing to do but 
to keep to the North of the liland in my Return, 
and 1 Ihould do well enough. 

Encouraged with this Obfervatiohi I refolv'd th^ 
next Morning to fet out with the firll of the Tide; 
and repofingmyfelf fortheNightin the Canoe, un- 
der the great Watch-coat I mentioned, I launched 
Out: Imade firftalittleoutto Seafull iVi^r^/?, till I 
began to feel the Benefit of the Current, which fet 
Eaftward, and which carry 'd me at a great Rate, 
and yet did not fo hurry me as the Southern Side 
Current had done before, and fo as to take from 
me all Government ot the Boat i but having a 

Q^ flrong 



[ ii6 ] 

ftrong Steerage with my Paddle, I went at a great 
Race diredly for the Wreck, and in lefs than two 
Hours I came up to it. 

It was a difmal Sight to look at: The Ship, 
which by its Building was S^anij!)^ ftuck fail jaum'cl 
in between two Rocks : All the Stern and Quarter 
of hfi* was beaten to pieces with the Sea; and as 
her Forecaflle, which iluck in the Rocks, had run 
on with great Violence, her Main-mafl and Fore- 
mafl: were brought by the Board; that is to fay, 
broken fhort oft; but her Boltfprit was found, and 
and the Head and Bow appeared firm ; when I 
came clofe to her, a Dog appeared upon her, who 
feeing me coming, yelp'd and cry'd; and as foon 
as 1 cali'd him, jump'd into the Sea, to come to 
rae, and I took him into the Boat, but found him 
almofl: dead For Hunger and Thirft; I gave him a 
Cake of my Bread, and he eat it like a ravenous 
Wolf that had been flarving a Fortnight in the 
Snow. I then gave the poor Creature fome frefh 
Water with which, if I would have let him, he 
would have burfl; himfelf. 

After this I went on Board ; but the firfl Sight 
I met with, was two i\Ien drown'd in the Cook- 
room, or Forecaflle of the Ship, with their Arms 
faff about one another: I concluded, as is indeed 
probable, that when the Ship firuck, it being in a 
Storm, the Sea broke fo high, and fo continu^illy 
over her that the Men were not able to bear it, 
and were flrangled with the conflant rufl^ing in of 
the Water, as much as it they had been under W^a- 
ter. Belides the Dog, there was nothing left in 
the Ship that had L'\\q^> nor any Goods that I 
could fee, but wlmt wa^ fpoii^'d by the Water 
There were Ibme Casks of Liquor, whether Wine 
or Brandy, I knew not, which lay lower in the 
Hold i and whicli, th^ Water being ebb'd out, I 

could 



[ ^2-7 ] 

could fee ; but they were too big to meddle with : 
I faw feveral Cheib, whktr I believe belonged to 
fome ot" the Seamen, and I got two of them into 
the Boat, without examining what was in them. 

Had the Stern of the Ship been fix'd, and the 
Forepart broken off, I am perfuaded I might have 
made a good Voyage ; for by what I found in thefe 
two Chefts, I had room to fuppofe the Ship had 
a great deal ot" Wealth on Board ; and if 1 may 
guefs by the Courfe (he fleer'd, £he muft have been 
bound from the Buenos Ajres, ortheRio de la Plata 
in the South Part of America^ beyond the Brajilsy 
to the Havana^ in the Gulph of Mexico, and fo per* 
haps to S^ain : She had^ no doubt, a great Treafure 
in her, but of no Ufe at that time to any Body ; 
and what became of the reft of her People, I then 
knew not. 

I found, befides thefe Chefls, a little Cask full of 
Liquor, of about twenty Gallons, which I got into 
my Boat with much Difficulty ; there were ieveral 
Muskets in a Cabin, and a great Powder-horn, with 
about 4 Pounds of Powder in it; as for the Muskets 
I had no occafion for them, fo I left them ,* but 
took the Powder-horn : I took a Fire-jQiovel and 
Tongs, which I wanted extremely > as aifo two 
little Brafs Kettles, a Copper-Pot to make Choco- 
late, and a Gridiron ; and with this Cargo, and 
the Dog, I came away, the Tide beginning to 
make home again; and the fame Evening, about 
an Hour within Night, I reacii'd the Ifland again, 
weary and fatigu'd to the lalt Degree. 

I repos'd that Night in the Boat, and in the Morn- 
ing I refolv'd to harbour what I had gotten in my 
new Cave, not to carry it home to my Caftle. Aftet 
refrefhing myfelf, I got ail my Cargo on Shore, and 
began to examine the Particulars : The Cask of 
Licjuor I fbund to be a kind of Rum,- but not {iich 

0.2 as 



[2l8 ] 



as we had at the Erajih ; and in a Word, not at al^ 
good ; but when 1 came to open the Chells, I 
found feveral Things of great Ufe to me : For 
Example, I found in one a fine Cafe of Bottles, of 
an extraordinary Kind, and fiird with Cordial Wa- 
ters, fine, and \ery good ; the Bottles held about 
three Pints each, and were tip'd with Silver: I 
found two Pots of very good Succades, or Sweet- 
meats, f o faflen'd alfo on Top, that the Salt Water 
had not hurt them ; and two more of the fame, 
which the Water had fpoil'd : I found fome very 
good Shirts, when were very welcome to me^ and 
about a Dozen andhalf ofLinnen white Handker- 
chiefs, and coloured Neckcloths ; the former were 
alfo very welcome, being exceeding refrefhing to 
wipe my Face in a hot Day ; befidesthis, when 1 
came to the Till in the Chefls, I found there three 
great Bags of Pieces of Eight, which held out about 
eleven hundred Pieces in all ; and in one of them, 
wrapt up in a Paper, fix Doubloons of Gold, and 
fome fmall Bags or Wedges of Gold j I fuppofe they 
might all weight near a Pound. 

The other Cheft I found had fome Cloaths in it^ 
but of little Value; but by the Circumftances it 
mud have belonged to the Gunner's Mate, though 
there was no Powder in it, but about two Pound of 
fine glaz'd Powder, in three imall Flasks, kept, I 
fuppofe, for charging thicr Fowling Pieces on Oc- 
cafion : Upon the Whole, I got very little by this. 
Voyage, that was of any Ufe tome ; for as to the 
Money, 1 had no Manner of Occafion for it ; 'twas 
to me as the Dirt under my Feet; and 1 would 
have given it all for three or four Pair ot Englijh 
Shoes and Stockings, which were Things I greatly 
wanted, but had not had on my Feet now for 
many Years : I iiac^, indeed, gotten two Pair cf 
Shoes now, which I took orf of the Feet of the 

two 



[ii9 3 

i:\vo drown'ci Men, Avho I faw in the Wreck ,* and 
I found two Pair more in one of the Chefts, which 
were very welcome tome ; but they were notJike 
our £;2^///j Shoes, ejiher for Eafe or Service, being 
rather v/hat we call Pumps than Shoes : I found 
in this Seaman's Cheil about hfty Pieces of Eight 
in Royals, but no Gold ; I fuppofe this belonged 
to a poorer Man than the other, which feem'd to 
belong CO fome OiEcer. 

Well, however, I lug'd this Money home to 
;ny Cave, and laid it up, as I had done that before, 
which I brought from pur own Ship ; but it was 
^reat Piiy, as I Cdidj that the other Part of this 
Ship had npc come to my Share, for I am fatisfy'd 
I might have loaded my Canw fcveral Times over 
with Money, vvhich, iflhad ever elcap'd to £«^- 
fand, would have lain here fate enough till I might 
have come again and fecchVi it/ 

Having now brought alf my Things on Shore, 
and fwcur'd them, I went back co my Boat, and 
row'd or paddled her along the Shore to her old 
Harbour, \^mere I laid her up, and made the befl 
of my way to my old Habiracion, where I found 
every thing fate and quiet ; (o I began to repofe 
my felt, live after my old Fafliion, and take Care of 
my Family-Atiairsi and for a while, I lived eafy 
enough, on'y that I was more vigilent then I ufed 
to be, look'd out oftner, and did not goabroad'fo 
much; and if at any time I did flir with any Free- 
dom, it was always to the Eaft Part of thelfland, 
where I was preity wdl fatisfy'd the Savages 
i;ever came, and where I could go without To ma- 
ny Precautions, and fuch a Load of Arms and 
Ammuniticn, as 1 alwa) s carry with me, if 1 went 
the other Way. 

I liv'd in this Condition near.two Years more; 

but my unlucky Head, that was always to let me 

0,3 know 



[ 2-30 ] 

know it was born to make my Body miferable> 
was all the two Years fiiJ'd with Projeds and 
Defigns, how, if it were pofTible, I might get av/ay 
from this Ifland ; for fomerimes 1 was for making 
another Voyage to the Wreck, though my Rea- 
fon told me that there was nothing left there worth 
the Hazard of my Voyage; Sometimes for a 
Ramble one Way, fomerimes another i and I be- 
lieve verily, if 1 had had the Boat that I went from 
Sallee in, I fliould have ventured to Sea, bound any 
where I knew not w^hether. 

I have been, in all my Circum fiances, a Memento 
to thofe w^ho are touch' d with the general Plague 
of Mankind, whence, for ought I know, one Half 
of their Miferies flow ,• I mean, that of not being 
fatisfy'd with the Station wherein God and Na- 
ture hathplac'd them ^ for not to look back upon 
my primitive Condition, and the excellent Advice 
of my Father, the Oppofition to which, was, 
as Imay call itj my Original Sin, my fubfequent 
Miflakes of the fame Kind had been the Means of 
my coming into this miferable Condition ; for had 
that Providence, which fo happily had featedme 
at the Brafilf, 2,s a Planter, blef^'d me with con- 
{md Dcfu-es, and I could have been contented to 
have gone on gradually, I might have been by this 
Time, I mean in the Time of mj being in this Ifland^ 
one of the moil confiderable Planters in the ^r^z- 
fils ; nay, I am perfuaded, that by the Improve- 
ments I had made in thafc little Time I liv'd there, 
and the Encreafc I fhould probably have made, if I 
had flay'd, I might haix been worth an hundred 
thoufand Miidores ; and what Buiinefs had I to 
leave a fettled Fortune, a weli-ltockM Plantation, 
improving and encreafing, to turn Supra-Cargo to 
Guinea^ to fetch Negroes, when Patience and 
Time would have fo encreas'd our Stock at 

Home 



[ ijl ] 

Home, that wecouid have brought them at our own 
Door, from whofe whole Bufinefs it was to fetch 
them ,• and tho' it had cofl us fomething more, yet 
the Difference of that Price was by no means worth 
iaving at fo great a Hazard. 

But as this is ordinarily the Fate of young Heads, 
fo Refledion upon the Folly of it, is as ordinarily 
the Exercife of more Years, or of the dear-bought 
Experience of Time j and fo it was with me now ; 
and yet fo deep had the Miltake taken root in 
my Temper that I could not fatisfy my fel fin my 
Station, but was continually poring upon the 
Means and Poffibility o^ myEfcapefrom this Place; 
and that I may with the greater Pleafure to the 
Reader bring on the remaining Part of my Story, 
it may not be improper to give fome Account of 
my tirfl Conceptions on the Subjed of this foolifii 
Scheme for my Efcape ; and how, and upon what 
Foundation laded. 

I. am now to be fuppos'd retir'd into my Caftle, 
after my late Voyage ro the Wreck, my Frigate 
laid up, fecur'd under Water, as ufual, and my 
Condition reflored to what it was before : I had 
more Wealth indeed, than I had before, but was 
not at ail the richer ; for I had no more Ufeforir, 
than the Indians oi Peru had before the ^^«/^r</x 
came their. 

It was one of the Nights, in the rainy Seafonin 
March, the four and twentieth Year of my firfl 
fetting Foot in this liland of Solitarinefs, I was 
lying in my Bed, or Hammock, awake, very well 
in Health, had no Pain, no Diflemper, no Unea- 
linefs of Body, no, nor any Uneafinefs of Mind, 
more than ordinary, but could by no Means 
clcfc my Eves ; that is, fo as to deep; no, not a 
V/uikall Night long, otherwife than as follows : 

Q4 It 



[ ij^ ] 

It is as impoflible as needle fs, to kt down the 
innumerable Crowd of Thoughts that whirled 
through that great ThoroFair ot' the Brain> the 
Memory, in this Night's Time : 1 run over the 
whole Hiflory of my Life in Miniature, or by 
Abridgment, as I may call it, to my coming to this 
Ifland : And alfo of the Fart of my Life fince I 
came to this Ifland. In my ReBedcions i pon the 
State of my Cafe, fince I came on Shore on this 
Ifland, I was comparing the happy Poflure of my 
Affairs in the fiffl Years of my Habitation here, 
compared to the Life of Anxiety, Fear, and Care, 
which I had liv'd in ever fince I had feen the Print of 
a Foot in the Sand ; not thatl did nor believe the 
Savages had frequented the ^^7;?^ even a. 1 the while, 
2nd might have been feveral Hundreds of them at 
times on Shore there ,• but I had never known it^ 
and was incapable of any Apprehenfions about it ; 
my Satisfa(5tion was perfeft, tho^ my Danger was 
the fame ; and I was as happy in not knowing my 
Danger, as if I had never really been exposed to it. 
This furnifh'd my Thoug;its with many very pro- 
fitable Reflections, and particularly this one, How 
infinitely good that Providence is, which has pro- 
vided in ks Government of Mankind fuch narrow 
Bounds to his Sight and Knowledge of Things ; 
j:nd tho^ he walks in the Mid/1 of fo many thou- 
fand Dangers, the Sight of which, ii' difcover'd to 
him, would diftrad his Mind, and fink his Spirits, 
1 e is kept ferene and calm, but having the Events 
cf Thir.gs hid i rem his Eyes, and knowing no- 
thing of the Dangers which fLirround him. 

After thefe Thoughts had fome Time enter- 
tained me, I came to reflect ferioufly upon the real 
Danger I had been in f jr fo many Years in this 
very Ifland; and how 1 nad walk'd about in the 
greaucft Security, a:.d with a'.l pofiiUe Tranquili- 
ty i 



[ ^53 1 

ty ; even when perhaps nothing but a Brow of a 
Hill, a great Tree, or the cafnal Approach of 
Night, had been betwwen n:ie and the worft Kind 
of Dcftrudion, viz,. That of failing into the Hands 
of Canibals and Savages, who would have feiz'd 
on me with the fame View as I did of a Goat or 
a Turtle, and have thought it no more a Crime 
to kill and devour me, than I did of a Pidgeon or 
a Curlleu : I fhculd urjullly flander myfelf, if I 
(liould fay I was not fincerely thankful to my 
great Preferver, to whofe fingular Protection I ac* 
knowiecg'd with great Humility, that all thefe 
iinknov. n Deliverances were due ,• and without 
which I muft inevitably have fallen into their mer- 
ciiefs Hands. 

When thefe Thoughts Vv-ere over, my Head was 
for feme Time taken up in coniidenng the Nature 
of thefe wretched Creatures, I mean the Savages; 
and how it came to pals in the World, that the 
wife Governour of all Things fliould give up any 
of liis Creatures to fuch Inhumanity ,• nay, to 
fomething fo much below even Brutality itfelf, as 
to devour its own Kind ; but as this ended in fome 
(at that time fruitJefs) Speculations, it occur^dto 
me to enquire, what Pjrt of the World thefe 
V/ retches liv'd in ; how far off the Coaft was from 
whence they came ; what they ventured over fo far 
from Home for ; what kind of Boats they had ; 
and why I might not order myfelf, and my Bufi- 
nefs fo, that 1 might be as able to go over thither, 
as they were to come to me. 

I never fo much as troubled myfelf to confider 
what 1 fhould do with myfelf when I came thi- 
ther ; what would become of me, if I fell into the 
Hands of the Savages; or how I fhould efcapefrom 
them, ii^ they attempted me ; no, nor fo much as 
how it was polTible for me to reach the Coaff^ and 
' not 



not be attempted by iome or other of them, with" 
out any PofTibility of delivering myfelf^ and it I 
Ihould not fall into their Hands, what I fhould do 
for Provifion, or whither I (hoiild bend my Courfe ; 
none of thefe Thoughts, I fay, io much as came 
in my Way ; but my Mind was wholly bent upon 
the Notion of my pafling over in my Boat to the 
main Land : Ilook'd back uf)on my prefent Con- 
dition, as the moll miferable that could poflibly be, 
that I was not able to throw my felf into any thing 
but Death, that could be cail'd worfe ; that if I 
reach'd the Shore of the Main, I might perhaps 
meet with Relief, or I might coafl: along as I did 
on the Shore of Ajrick, till 1 came to fome inha- 
bited Country, and where I might find fome Re- 
lief i and after all, perhaps I might fail in with 
fome Chrillian Ship that might take me in ; and 
if the worft came to the worfl, I could but die, 
which would put an End to all thefe Miferies at 
once. Pray note, all this was the Fruit of a di- 
fuirb'd Mind, an impatient Temper, made as it 
were defperate, by the long Continuance of my 
Troubles, and the Difappointments I had met in 
the Wreck I had been on Board of, and where I 
had been fo near the obtaining what I fo earnelUy 
long'd for, viz,, fome Bqdy to fpeak to, and to learn 
fome Knowledge from, of the Place where I was, 
and of the probable Means of my Deliverance : 
I fay, I was agitated wholly by thefe Thoughts. 
All my Calm of Mind in my Refignation to Pro- 
vidence, and waiting the Iflue of the Difpofitions 
of Heaven, feem'd to be fufpendedj and I had, as 
it were, no Power to turn my^ Thoughts to any 
Thing, but to the Projed of a Voyage to the 
Main, which came upon me with fuch Force, and 
fuch anlmpetuofity of Defirc, that it was not to 

be refifted. 

When 



[ 135 ] 

When this had agitated my Thoughts for two 
Hours or more with fuch Violence, that it fet 
my very Blood into a Ferment, and my Pulfe beat 
as' high as in had been in a Fever meerly with 
the extraordinary Fervour of my Mind about it. 
Nature, as if I had been fatigued and exhaufted 
with the very Thought of it, threw me into 3 
found Sleep : One would have thought I fhould 
have dream'd of it ; but I did not;, nor of any 
Thing relating to it j but I dream'd, that as I was 
going out in the Morning, asufual, from my Caflle, 
1 faw upon the Shore two Canoes, and eleven Sa- 
vages coming to Land, and that they brought with 
them another Savage, who they were going to kill, 
in order to eat him ; when on a fudden, the Sa- 
vage that they were going to k 11, jump'd away 
and ran for his Life ; and I thought in my Sleep, 
th^t he came running into my little thick Grove 
before my Fortification to hide himfnlf, ,- and that 
I feeing him alone, and not perceiving that the o- 
ther fought him that way, Ihew'd myfelf to him, 
and, fmiling upon him, encourag'd him ; that he 
kneel'd down to me, feeming to pray me to affift 
him ; upon which I fhew'd my Ladder, made him 
go up, and carry'd him into my Cave, and he be- 
came my Servant ; and that as foon as I had got- 
ten this Man, I faidto myfelf, now I may cer- 
tainly venture to the main Land ,* for this Fellow 
will ferve me as a Pilot, and will tell me what to 
do, and whither to go for Provilions ; and whi- 
ther not to go for fear of being devoured, what 
Places to venture into, and what toefcape: I wak^d 
with this Thought, and was under fuch inexpref- 
fible ImprefTions of Joy at the Profped of my Efcape 
in my Dream, that the Difappointments which I 
felt upon coming to myfelf, and finding it was no 
inore than a Dream, were equally extravagant the 

other 



[ ^3^ ] 

other Way, and threw me into a very great De- 
jeftion of Spirit. 

Upon this, however, I made this Conclufion, 
That my only Way to go about an Attempt for 
an Efcape, was, i^ pofTible, to get a Savage into 
my PoileiTion ; and, if poflible, it (hould be one of 
their Prifoners, who they had condemn^ to be 
eaten, and fhould bnng thither to kill ; but thefe 
.ThoLights fliil were attended with this Difficulty, 
that it vt^as impofTible to effedt this, without at- 
tacking a whole Caravan of them, and killing 
them alio and this was not only a very defperate 
Attempt, and might mifcarry; but, on the o- 
ther Hand, I had greatly fcruplcd the Lawfulnefs 
of it to me, and my Heart trembled at the 
Thoughts of (hedding fo much Blood, tho' it 
was for my Deliverance. I need not repeat the 
Arguments which occur 'd to me againft this, 
they being mention^ before : But tho' I had other 
Reafons to offer now, (viz.) that thofe Men were 
Enemies to my Life, and would devour me, if they 
could ; that it was Self-Prefervation in the high- 
eft Degree, to deliver myfelf from this Death of 
^ Life, and was ading in my own Defence, as 
much as if they were actually affaulting me, and 
the like. I fay, tho' thefe Things argued for it, 
yet the Thoughts of fhedding human Blood for 
my Deliverance, were very terrib'e to me, and 
fiich as I could by no Means reconcile myfelf to a 
great while. 

However, at laft, after many fecret Difputes 
with myfelf, and af:er great Perplexities about 
it; for all thcfe Arguments, one way and another, 
ilruggled in my Head a long Time; the eager- 
prevailiiig Dciireof Deliveriince at length mafterM 
4II the reft ; and I refolvM, ifpofTible, to get ore 
pf thofe Savages into my Hands, coft what it 

would. 



[ m ] 

wciild. My next Thing then was to eontrive how. 
to do it, and this indeed was very diilicLilc to re- 
folve on : But as I couid pitch upon no probable 
Means for it, fo I refolv^d to put myfeif upon the 
Wacch, to fee them when they came on Shore, 
and leave the reft to the Evenc, raking fuch Mea- 
Cures as the Opportunity Ihould preient, let be 
what would be. 

With thefe Refolutions in my Thoughts, I fet 
myfeif upon the Scout, as often as poffible, and 
indeed io often, till 1 was heartily tir'd of it ,• for 
it was above a Year and a half that I waited, and 
for great Part of that Time went out to the Weji 
End, and to the South-lVefl Corner of the liland, 
aim oft every Day, to fee for Canoes, but none 
appear'd. ""Tis was very difcouraging, and began 
to trouble me much ; rho' I cannot f^y that it <}iidu 
in this Cafe, as it had done fome Time before that, 
{yix.?) wear oft' the Edge of my Delire to the Thing. 
But the longer it feem'd to be delayed, the more 
eager 1 was for iti in a V/ord, I was not at firft io 
careful to ftiun the Sight of thefe Savages, and a- 
void being feen by them, as I was now eager to be 
upon them. 

Befides, I fancy 'd myfeif able to manage one, 
nay, two or three Savages, li I had them, fo as 
to make them entirely Slaves to me, to do what- 
ever 1 fliould direct them, and to prevent their 
being able at any Time to do me any Hurt. It 
was a great while that I pleas'd myfeif with this 
Affair, but nothing ftill prefcnted \ all my Fancies 
and Schemes came to nothing, for no Savages came 
near me for- a great while. 

About a Year and a half after I had entertained 
thefe Notions, and, by long muftng, had as were 
refolv'd them all into nothing, for want of an Oc- 
cafion to put them in Execution, I was furpriz'd 

one 



C 238 ] 

one Morning early, with feeing no lefs than five 
Canoes all on Shore together on my Side theliland; 
and the People who belonged to them all landed^ 
and out of my Sight : The Number of them broke 
all my Meafures ; for feeing fo many, and know- 
ing that they always came four or fix, orfometimes 
more, in a Boat, I could not tell what to think of 
it, or how to take my Meafures, to attack twen- 
ty or thirty Men fingle handed ; fo I lay (liil in 
my Caflle, perplexed and difcom.forted .- However, 
I put myfelf into all the fame Poftures for an At- 
tack, that I had formerly provided, and was jufi: 
ready for Action, \i any Thing had pre fen ted. Ha- 
ving waited a good while, Iillening to hear if they 
made any Noifej at length, being very impatient, 
I fet my Guns at the Foot of my Ladder, and 
clamber^ up to the Top of the Hill, by my two 
Stages as ufual; landing fo, however, that my 
Head did not appear above the Hill, fo that 
they could not perceive me by any means : Here 
I obferv'd, by the Help of my Perfpcdive Glafs, 
that they were no lefs than thirty in Number, that 
they had a Fire kindled, that they had had Meat 
drefs'd ; how they hadcook'd it, that I knew not, 
or what it was j but they were all dancing in I 
know not hovv^ many barbarous Geftures and Fi- 
gures their own Way, round the Fire. 

While I was thus looking on them, I perceiv'd, 
by my Perfpedive, two miferable Wretches drag'd 
from the Boats, where it feems they were laid by, 
and were now brought out for the Slaughter. I 
perceived one of them immediately fell, being 
knock'd down, I fuppofe with a Club or wooden 
Sword, for that was their Way, and two or three 
others were at Work immediately cutting him open* 
for their Cookery, while the ovher Vidim was left 
funding by himfclf, till they fhould be ready for 

him. 



[ 2-39 1 

him. In that very Moment this poor Wretch fee- 
ing himfelf a little at Liberty. Nature infpirJd him 
with Hopes of Life, and he ftarted away from 
them, and ran with incredible Swiftnefs along the 
Sands directly towards me, I mean, towards that 
Part of the Coafi: where my Habitation was. 

I was dreadfully frighted, (that I muft acknow- 
ledge) when I perceiv'd him to run my Way; and 
efpecially, when as I thought I faw him purfued 
by the whole Body ; and now 1 expeded that Pare 
of my Dream was coming to pafs, and that he 
would certainly take Shelter in my Grove ,• but I 
could not depend by any Means upon my Dream 
for the reft of it, (viz.) that the other Savages 
would not purfue him thither, and Hnd him there. 
However I kept my Station, and my Spirits began 
to recover, when I found that there was not above 
three Men that folJow'd him ; and ftiil more was I 
encouragM, when I found that he outftript them 
exceedingly in running, and gain Ground of 
them, fo that if he could but hold it for half an 
Hour, I faw eafily he would fairly get away from; 
them all. 

There was between them and my Caftle the 
Creek which I mentioned often at the firft Part of 
my Story, when I landed my Cargoes out of the 
Ship ; and this, I faw plainly, he muft neceifarily 
fwim over, or the poor Wretch would be taken 
there : But when the Savage efcaping came thi- 
ther, he made nothing of it, tho' the Tide was 
then up, but plunging in, fwam thro' in about thir- 
ty Strokes or thereabouts, landed, and ran on 
with exceeding Strength and Swifcnefs ; when the 
three Perfons came to the Creek, I found that two 
of them could fwim, but the third could not, and 
that ftanding on the other Side, he look'd at the 
other, but went no farther ; and foon after went 

foftly 



_ [ HO ] 

(oftly back again, which, as it happen'd, was very 
well for him ih the main. 

I obferv'd, th?t the two who fwam, were yet 
more than twice as long fwimming over the Creek, 
as the Fellow was that fled from them : It came 
now very warmly upon my Thoughts, and indeed 
irreiiftible, that now was my Time to get me a 
Servant, and perhaps a Companion or an Affiflant; 
and that I was calJ'd plainly by Providence to fave 
this poor Creature's Life ; 1 immediately run down 
the Ladders with all polfible Expedition, fetch'd 
my two Guns, for they were both but at the Foot 
of the Ladders, as I obferv'd above ; and getting 
up again with the fame Halle t6 the Top of the 
Hill, I crofs'd toward the S:a ; aiid having a vety 
ihort Cut, and all dov^m Hill, clapp'd myfelf hi 
the Way between the Purfuers and the Purfued ; 
hollowing aloud to him that fled, who looking 
back, was at Hrfi: perhaps as much frighted at me 
as at them ; but I becko I'd with my Hand to him 
to come back, and in the mean Time I flowjy ad- 
vanced towards the two that follow'd ; then rufliing 
at once upon the foremofl:, I knock'd him down 
with the Stock of my Piece : I was loth to fire, be- 
caufe I would not have the reif hear ,* tho' at that 
Diftance it would not have been eafily heard ; 
and being out oF Sight of the Smoke too, they 
would not have eaiily known what to make of it : 
Having knock'd this Fellow down, the other, who 
purfu'd h.m ftopp'd, as it he had been frighted; 
and I advanced apace towards him ; but as 1 came" 
nearer, 1 perceived prefently he had a Bow and 
Arrow, and was fitting it too fhoot at me ; fo I 
was then necelfitatcd to faoot at him firft, which I 
did, and kill'd him at the firfc Shoot ; the poor Sa- 
vage who fled, but had (lopp'd, tho'' he law both 
his Enemies fallen, " and kiiiVi, as he thought ; yef 

was 



[hi] 

Wasfo frighted with the Fire, and Noife of my 
Piece, that he Ihood fiock-ftiiJ, and neither came 
forward or went backward, tho' he fcemM rather 
inclin'd to fly ftill, than to come on; Iliollow'd. 
again to him, and made Signs to come forward, 
whici. he eaiily underilood, and camealittie Way, 
then ftopp'd again; and then a little farther, and 
jftoppM again ; and I. could then perceive that he^ 
ftood trembling, as i( he had been taken Priicner> 
and hadjuft been to by kill'd, as his two Enemies 
were : 1 beckon'd him again to come to me, and 
gave him all the Signs of Encouragement that I 
could think of, and he came nearer and nearer,, 
kneeling down every ten or twelve Steps, in Token 
of Acknowledgment for myfaving his Life : I fmil'd 
at him, and look'd pleafandy, ana beckonM to him 
to come Hill nearer ; at length he came clofe to me, 
and then he kneel'd down again, ki(s*d the Ground 
and laid his Head upon the Ground, and taking 
me by the Foot, fet my Foot upon his Head ; 
this, it feems, was in Tokenof fwearingto bemy 
Slave for ever. I took him up, and made much of 
him, and encourag'd him all I could: But there 
was more Work to do yet, for I perceiv'a the Sa- 
vage, whom I knock'd down, was not killed, but 
ftunn'd with the Blow, and began to come t^ him- 
felf j fo I pointed to him, and fhowing him the Sa- 
vage, that he was not dead ; upon this he fpoke 
fome Words to me, and tho' I could not underftand 
them, yet I thought they were pleafant to here, for 
they were the firft Sound ofa Man's Voice that I 
had heard, my owu excepted, for aDove twenty five 
Years. But there was no Time forfuch Refleai-' 
ons now; the Savage, wno was knocked down, 
recover'd himfelf fo far, as to fit up upon the 
Ground, and 1 perceivM that my Savage began to 
ls>e afraid; but when I faw that I prefented my o- 

R ther 



[ Hi ] 

ther Piece at the Man, as if I would fhoot him ^ 
upon this my Savage, forfo I call him now, made 
a Motion to me to lend him my Sword, which hun g 
naked in a Belt by my Side ; (o I did : He no foon- 
er had it, but he runs to his Enemy, and at one 
Blow cut of his Head as cleverly, no Executioner 
in Germany could have done it fooner or better i 
which 1 thought very ftrange, for one, who I had 
Reafon to believe never faw a Sword in his Life be- 
fore, except their own wooden Swords; however, 
it feems, as I learn'd afterwards, they make their 
wooden Swords fo fliarp, fo heavy, and the Wood 
is fo hard, that they will cut oft* Heads even with 
them, aye and Arms, and that at one Blow too^ 
When he had done this, he comes laughing to me 
in Sign of Triumph, and brought me the Sword 
again, and with abundance of Geftures, which I 
did not underftand, laid it down with the Head of 
the Savage that he had kill'd, juft before me. 

But that which aftoniftiM him moft, was to 
kno\<' how I had kill'd the other Indian fo far off; 
lb, pointing to him, he madeSignsto me to let 
him go to him ', fo I bad him go, as well as I could ,* 
when he came to him, he flood like one amaz'd, 
looking at him, turn'd him firfl on one Side, then 
on t'other, look'd at the Wound the Bullet had 
made, which, it feems, was jufl in hisBreaft, where 
it had made a Hole, and no great Qtiantity of 
Blood had followed, but he had bled inwardly, for 
he was quite dead : He took up his Bow and Ar- 
rows, and came back, fo I turn'd to go away, and 
beckon '*d to him to follow me, making Signs to 
him, that more might come after them. 

Upon this he fign'd to me, that he fhould bury 
them with Sand, that they might not be feen by 
the reft i^ they follow'd, and fo 1 made Signs again 
to him to do fo j he fell to work, and in an Inftanr 
' he 



he had fcrap'd a Hole in the^ Sand with his Hands> 
big enough to bury the firfl iii, au.d then dr^gg'd 
him into it, and covered him, and dkLib alfo by 
the otner ,* I believe he had bury'd them boih in a 
Quarter of an Hour , then calling him away, I car- 
r) 'd him iiot to my Caftle, but quite away to my 
Cave, on tiie farther Part of the Ifland , fo I did 
not let my Dream come to pafs ih that Part, viz,. 
That he came into my Grove for Shelter. 

Here I gave him Bread, and a Bunch of Raifins 
to eat, and a Draught ot vv ater, which I found he 
was indeed in great Diftrefs for, by his Running ; 
and having refreih'd him, I made Signs for him to 
go lie down and deep, pointing to a Place where 
I had laid a great Parcel of Rice Straw, and a 
Blanket upon it, which I ufed to fleep upon my 
felf fometimes ; fo the poor Creature laid down, 
and went to fleep. 

He was a comely handfome Fellow, perfedly well 
made, with ftrait if rong Limbs, not too large, tall 
and well fliap'd, and, as 1 reckon, about twenty fix 
Years of Age. He had a very good Countenance, 
not a fierce and furly Afped, but feem^'d to have 
fomething very Manly in his Face, and yet he had 
all the Sweetnefs and Softnefs of an European in his 
Countenance too, efpccially when he miii'd. His 
Hair was long and black, not curlM like Wool ; his 
Forehead very high, and large, and a great Vivacity 
and fparkling Sharpneis in his Eyes. The Colour of 
his Skin was not quite black, but very tawny, and 
yet not of an ugly yellow naufeous Tawny, as the 
Brafilians^ and Virginians, and other Natives of -^- 
merica are, but of a bright Kind of a dun Olive Co- 
lour, that had in it fomething very agreeable, tho' 
not very eafy to defcribe. His Face was round 
and plump, his Nofe fmall, not flat like the Ne- 
groes, a very good Mouth, thin Lips, and his 

R 2 fine 



[ i44 ] 

fine Teeth well fet, and white as Ivory. After hd 
had flumber'd, rather then flept, about half an 
Hour, he wak'd again, and conies out ot the Cave 
to me ; for I had been milking my Goats which I 
had in the Enclosure juft by : When he fpy'd me, 
he. came running to me, laying himfelf down a- 
gainupon the Ground, with all the poffible SigrS 
of an humble thankful Difpofition, making ^a 
many antick Geftures to fliow it: At laft he la3$ 
his Head flat upon the Ground, clofe to my Foot, 
and fet my other Foot upon his Head, as he had 
done before j and after this, made all the Signs to 
meofSubjedion, Servitude, and SubmifTion ima- 
ginable, to let me know how he would ferve me as 
long as heliv'd. I underftood him in many Things, 
and let him know I was very well pleas'd with 
him ,• in a little Time I began to fpeak to him, 
and teach him to fpeak to me; and firft, I made 
him know his Name fhould be Friday^ which was 
the Day I fav'd his Life; I calfd him fo for the 
Memory of the Time; I likewife taught him to 
fay Mafler, and then let him know that was to 
be my Name ; 1 like wife taught him to fay Tes 
and iVo, and to know the Meaning of them ; I 
gave him fome Milk, in an earthen Pot, and let 
him fee me drink it before him, and fop my Bread, 
in it; and I gave him a Cake of Bread, to do the 
like, which he quickly comply'd with, and made 
S\^i\s that it was very good for him. 

I kept there with him all that Night, but as 
foon as it was Day, 1 beckon'd to him to come with 
me, and let him know I would giv^ him fome 
Cloaths, at which he feem'd very glad, for he was 
flark-naked : As we went by the Place where he 
had buryM the two Men, he pointed exactly to 
the Place, andfliew'd me the Marks that the had 
made to find them again, making Signs to me 

that 



[ 245 ] 

I'hat we fiiould dig them up again, and eat them i 
at this I appeared very angry, ^xprefs'd my Ab- 
horrence of it, made as if I would vomit at the 
Thoughts of it, and beckon'd with my Hand to 
him to come away, which he did immediately, 
with great Submiilion. I then led him up to the 
Top of the Hill, to keK his Enemies were gone; 
and pulling out my Glafs, I look'd and faw plain- 
ly the Place where they had been, but no Appear- 
ance of them, or of their Canoes ; Co that it was 
plain that they were gone, and had left their two 
Comrades behind them, without any Search after 
them. 

But I was not content with this Difcovery, but 
having now more Courage, and confequently more 
Curiolity, I takes my Man Fnda) with me, giving 
him the Sword in his Hand, with the Bow and 
Arrows at his Back, which I found he could ufe 
very dextroufly, making him carry one Gun forme, 
and I two for myfelf, and away we march'd to the 
Place, where thefe Creatures had been ; for I had 
a Mind now to get fome fuller Intelligence of 
them : When I came to the Place, my very Blood 
ran chill in my Veins, and my Heart funk within 
me at the Horror of the Spedacle : Indeed it was a 
dreadful Sight, at lealf it was fo tome, tho' Friday 
made nothing of it : The Place was cover'd with 
human Bones, the Ground dy'd vv^ich their Blood, 
great Pieces of Flefh left here and there, half 
eaten, mangled and fcorch'd ; and, in fLorc, all the 
Tokens of the triumphant Feaft they had been 
making there, after a Vidory over their Enemies: 
I faw tnree Sculls,five Hands,and the Bones of three 
or four Legs and Feet, and abundance of other Parts 
of the Bodies i and Friday by his Signs, made me 
underftitnd, chat 'they brought over four Prifoners 
to feaft upon, that three of them were eaten up, 
R 3 and 



[ H<^ ] 

and that he, pointing to himfelf, was the fourth : 
That there had been a great Battle between them, 
and their next King, whofe Subjeds, it feems, he had 
been one of; and that they had taken a great Niim- 
bet of Prifoners, all which were carry'd to feveral 
P:aces by thofe that had taken them in the Fight, 
in o der to feaft upon them, as was done here by 
thefw Wretches upon thofe they brought hither. 

I csLus'd Friday to gather all the Sculls, Bones, 
Flefh, and whatever remain'd, and lay them toge- 
ther on a Heap, and make a great Fire upon it, 
and burn them all to Afhes : I found Friday had flill 
a hankering Stomach after fome of the Flefh, and 
was ftill a Canibal in his Nature ; but I difco- 
ver'd fo much Abhorance at the very Thoughts of 
it, and at the leaft Appearence of it, thathedurft 
notdifcoverit ^ for I had, by fome Means, let him 
know, that I would kill him if he ofrer'd it. 

When he had done this, we cam.e back to our 
Caflle, and there I tell to work for my Man Friday, 
andfirfl: of all I gave him a Pair of Linnen Draw- 
ers which I had out of a poor Gunner's Cheft I 
mention'd, and which I found in the Wreck, and 
which,with a little Alteration, fitted him very well ; 
then I made him a Jerkin of Goat's-skin, as well as 
my Skill wonla allow j and I was now grown a 
tolerable good Taylor,* and I gave him a Cap, 
which I had madeof aHare-skih, very convenient, 
and fallilcnable enough ; and thus he was cloath^'d 
for the prefent, tolerably well, and was mighty 
^A'ell pleas'd to de himfelt almofi: as well cloath'd 
as his Mailer- Ir \s true-, he went awkardlyin 
thefe Things at hrif : Wearing the Drawers was 
very awkard to him, and the Sleeves of the Wafl- 
coiit gall *d his Shoulders, and the Iniide of his 
/*rms i but a little eafin^ them, where he ccmplain'd 
•JiV • they 



f H7 ] 

,diey hnrtliim, andufinghimfelf tothem, atlength 
he took to them very well. 

The next Day, after I came Home to my Hutch 
with him, I began to confider where I fhould lodge 
him ; and that I might do well for him, and yet be 
perfectly eafy myfelF, I made a little Tent for him 
in the vacant Place between my two Fortifications, 
in the Iniide of the laft, and in the Outiide of the 
firfl : And as there was a Door or Entrance there 
into my Cave, I made a formal fram'd Door-cafe, 
and a Door to it of Boards, and fet it up in the 
Paffage, a little within the Entrance y and caufing 
the Door to open on the Inlide, I barrel it up in 
the Night, taking in my Ladders too i fo that Fri- 
day could no Way come at me in the Infide of my 
innermofl: Wall without making fo much Noifc in 
getting over, that it muft needs waken me j for my 
iirft Wall had now a compleat Roof over it of long 
Poles, covering all my Tent, and leaning up to the 
Side of the Hill, which was, again laid crois with 
Smaller Sticks inflead of Laths, and then thatch'd 
over a great Thicknefs with the Rice Straw, which 
was ftrong like Reeds-, and at the Hole or Place 
which was left to go in or out by the Ladder, I had 
plac'd a kind of Trap-door, which if it had been 
attempted on the Outfide, would not have opend 
at all, but would have fallen down, and made a 
great Noife \ and as to Weapons, I took them all 
iw to my Side every Night. 

But I needed none of all this Precaution s for ne- 
ver Man had a more faithful, loving, fincere Ser- 
vant than Fndny was to me \ without Pailions, 
SuUennefs, or Deligns, perfedly obligM and en- 
gag'd ; his very Afte{5tions were ty'd to me,, like 
tnofe of a Child to a Father •, and I dare fay, 'he 
would have facrific'd his Life for the faving mine, 
upon any Occalion whatfoever; the many Teftlmo- 

R 4 nies 



[148] 

riics he gave me of this, put it out of Doubt, and 
foon convinced me, that 1 needed to ufe no Precau- 
tions as to my Safety on his Account. 

This frequently gave me Occafion to obferve, 
and that wich wonder, that however it had pleas^'d 
God in his. Providence, and in the Government of 
the Works of his Hands, to take from fo great a 
Part of the World of his Creatures, the beil U(es to 
which their Faculties and the Powers of their 
Souls are adapted j yet that he has beflow'd upon 
them the fame Powers, the fame Reafon, the fame 
Affeftionsj the fame Sentiments of Kindnefs and 
Obligation, the fame PalTions and Refentments 
of Wrongs, the fame Senfe of Gratitude, Sinceri- 
ty, Fidelity, and ail the Capacities of doing Good, 
and receiving Good, that he has given to us; and 
that when he pleafes to offer to them Occafions of 
exerting thefe, they are as ready, nay, more ready 
to apply them to the right Ufes for which they 
Were be/low'd, then we are. And this made me 
very melancholy fometimes, in reflecting, as the 
feveral Occalions prefented, how mean a Ufe we 
make of all thefe, even through we have thefe Pow- 
ers enlightcn'd by the great Lamp of Inftrudion, 
the Spirit of God, and by the Knowledge of his 
Word added ro our Uiiderftanding ; and why it 
haspleas'd God to hide tht like faving Knowledge 
from fo many Millions of Souls, who (if I might 
jiltige by this poor Savagej would make a much 
better Ufe of ic than we did. 

From hence I fometimes was led too far to in- 
vade the Sovereignty of Providence, and, as it were, 
arraign the JulHce of fo arbitrary a Difpofition 
of Things, that fhould hide that Light from fome, 
and reveal it to others, and yet exped alike Du- 
ty from both : But I fliut it up, and check'd my 
Thoughts with this Conclufion^ lil^ That we did 
:- •' ■ - ' no: 



[ ^49 ] 

not know by what Light and Law thefe (hould be 
condemn d i but that as God was neceflarily,. and 
by the Nature of his Being, infinitely holy and 
juit, fo it could not be, but that if thefe Crea- 
tures were all fentenc'd to Abfence from himfclf, 
ic was on Account of fining againfl that Light, 
which, as the Scripture (ays, was a Law to them- 
felves,and byfuch Rules as their Confcences would 
acknowledge to be jufl,tho' the Foundation was not 
difcover'd to us. And, 2dly, That flili as we are all 
the Clay in the Hand of the Potter, no Veflel 
could fay to him, Whyhafl thou form 'd me thus? 

But to return to my new Companion; I was 
greatly delighted with him, and made it my Bufi- 
nefs to teach him every Thing that was proper to 
make him ufeful, handy, and helpful ; but efpeci- 
ally to make him fpeak, and underfiand me when 
Ifpakei and he was the ap reft Scholar that ever 
was, and particularly was fo merry, fo conflantly 
diligent, and fo pleas'd, when he could but un- 
derftand me or make me underfland him, that it 
was very pleafant to me to talk to him; and now 
my Life began to be fo eafy, that I began to fay to 
myfelfj that could I but have been fafe from more 
Savages, I cared not if I was never to remove from 
the Place while I liv'd. 

After I had been two or three Days returned to 
my Caflle, I thought that, in order to bring Frrdajf 
oft from his horrid Way of Feeding, and from the 
Relifn of a Canibal's Stomach, I ought to let him 
tafle other Fiefh ; fo I took him out with me one 
Morning to the Woods; I went, indeed, intending 
to kill a Kid out of my own Flock, and bring him 
home and drefs it : But as I was going, I faw 
a She Goat lying down in the Shade, and two 
young Kids fitting by her ; catch'd hold of Fn- 
dayy hold, fays I, fland fliJl; and made Signs to him 

not; 



[ 150 ] 

iiot to flir, immediately I prefented my Piece, fiipt 
and kill'd one of the Kids. The poor Creature;, 
who had at a Diftance, indeed, feet? me kill the 
Savage, his Enemy, but did not know, or could 
imagine, how it was done, was feniibly furpnz'd, 
trembled, and (hook, and look'd To amazM, that 
I thought he would have funk down. He did not 
fee the Kid I had fhot at, or perceive I had kill'd 
it, but ripp'd up his Waflcoat to feel if he was 
not wounded, and, as I found, prelently thought 
I was refolv'd to kill him ; for he came and 
kneel 'd down to me, and embracing my Knees, 
faid a great many Things I did not underftand, 
but I could eafily fee that the Meaning was tp 
pray me not to kill him. 

I foon found a Way to convince him that I would 
do him no Harm, and taking him up by the Hand, 
laughy at him, and pointing to the Kid which I 
had kill'd, beckon'd to him to run and fetch it, 
which he did ; and while he was wondering and 
looking to fee how the Creature was kiil'd, I load- 
ed my Gun again, and by and by I faw a great 
Fowl like a Hawk fit upon a Tree within Shot ; 
fo, to let F;7W^/ underhand a little what I would do, 
I caird him to me again, pointing at the Fowl, 
which was indeed a Parrot, tho' I thought it had 
been a Hawk ; I fay, pointing to the Parrot, and 
to my Gun, and to the Ground under the Parrot, 
to let him fee I would make it fall, I made him 
underfland that I would flioot and kill that Bird ; 
accordingly 1 hr'd and bad him look, and immedi- 
ately he faw the Parrot fall ; he flood like one 
frighted again, notwithflanding all I had faid to 
him ; and 1 found he was the more amaz'd, be- 
caufe he did not fee mc put any Thing into the 
Gun ; but thought that there mufl be fome won- 
der! ul Fund or D.ath and Deflruftion in that Thing, 

able 



[251] 

able to kill Man, Beaft, Bird, or any Thing, neaif 
or far off; and the Aftonifliment this created in 
him was fuch, as could not wear off for a long 
Time ; and I believe, if 1 would have let him, he 
would have worfhipp'd me and my Gun : As for 
the Gun itfelf, he would not fo much as touch it 
for feveral Days after ; but would fpeak to it, and 
talk to it, as if it had anfwer'd him, when he was 
by himfelf ; which, as I afterwards learn'd of him, 
was to defire it not to kill him. 

Well, after his Aflonifhment was a little over 
at this, I pointed to him to run and fetch the Bird 
I had iliot, which he did, but flayM fome Time ; 
for the Parrot not being quite dead, was flutter'd 
a good VV^ay off from the Place where (lie fell ; 
however, he found her, took her up, and brought 
her to me,* and, as I had perceiv'd his Ignorance 
about the Gun before, I took this Advantage to 
charge the Gun again, and not let him fee me do 
it, that I might be ready for any other Mark that 
might prefent ; but nothing more offer'd at that 
Time ; fo I brought home the Kid, and the fame 
Evening took the Skin off, and cut it out as well 
as I could ; and having a Pot for that Purpofe, I 
boil'd or flew'd lome of the Flefh, and made 
fome very good Broth ; and after I had begun to 
eat fome, I gave fome to my Man, who feem'd 
very glad of it, and Jik'd it very well,* but that 
which was flrangeft to hjm was to fee me eat 
Salt with it ; he made a Sign to me, that the Salt 
was not good to eat, and putting a little into his 
own Mouth, he feem'd to naufeate it, and would fpit 
and fputter at it, wafliing his Mouth with frefti 
Water after ir ; on the other Hand, I took fome 
Meat in my Mouth without Salt, and I pretended 
to fpit and fputter for want of Salt, as faft as he 
had done at the Salt ; but it would not do, he 

would 



C i5i 3 

>wrould never care for Salt with his Meat, or in hi$ 
Broth ; atleaft, not a great while, and then but <t 
very little. 

Having thus fed him with boil'd Meat and 
Broth, I was refolv'd to feaft him the next Day 
withrca^':ingaPieceoftheKid,- this I did by hang- 
ing it betbre the Fire in a String, as I had ken 
many People in England^ fetting two Poles up, 
one on each Side the Fire, and one crofs on the 
Top, and tying the String to the crofs Stick, letting 
the Meat turn continually : This Friday admir'd 
very much; but when he came to tafte the Flefh, 
he took fo many Ways to tell me how well helikM 
hy that I could not but underfrand him ; and at 
lail he told me he would never cat Man's FleOi 
any more, which I was very glad to hear. 

The next Day I fet him work to beating fome 
Corn out, and fif ting it in the Manner I ufed to do. 
as I obferv'd before ; and he foon underflood hovr 
to do it as well as I, efpecially, after he had feen 
what the Meaning of it was, and that it was to 
make Bread of ; for after that I let him fee me 
make my Bread, and bake it too, and in a little 
Time Friday was able to do all the Work for me, 
as well as I could do it myfelf, 

I began now to confider, that having two Mouths 
to feed inilcad of one, I mull: provide more Ground 
for my Harveft, and plant a larger Quantity of 
Corn than I uied to do ; fo I mark'd out a larger 
Piece of Land, and began the Fence in the fame 
Manner as before, in which Friday not only work'd 
very willingly and very hard, but did it very 
chcarfully ; and I told him what it was for, that it 
was for Corn to make more Bread, becaufe he was 
now with mc, and that I might have enough for 
hnn and my felf too : FIc appear'd very fenlible ot 
th^t Part, and Icr m: know that he thought Ihad 

much 



Sthiich more Labour upon me on this Account^ tfjan 
I had tor my ih\U and thac he would work the 
harder for me^ if I would tell him what to do. 

This was the pleafanteft Year of all the Life I led 
in this Place : Friday began to talk pretty well, and 
nnderftand the Names of almoft every Thing I had 
Occaiion to call for, and of every Place I had to 
lend him to, and talk a great deal to me ; fo that, 
in fhort, I began now to have fome Ufe for my 
Tongue again, which indeed I had very little Oc- 
cafion for before ; that is to fay, ahut Speech : Be- 
fidesthe Pleafure of talking to him, I had afingu- 
lar Satisfaction in the Fellow himfelf ; his (imple 
iinfeign'd Honefty appeared to me more and more 
every Day, and I began really to love the Creature ,* 
and on his Side, I believe he lov'd me more than it 
was pofljble for him ever to love any Thing before. 

I had a Mind once to try iH he had any hankering 
Inclination to his own Country again ; and having 
learn 'd him Enghjh fo well, that he could anfwer me 
almoft any Queftions, I ask'd him whether the Na- 
tion that he belonged to never conquered in Battle ? 
At which he fmil'd, and faid, Yes, yes, we always 
fight the better ; that is, he mean*d always get the 
better in Fight ; and fo we began the following 
Difcourfe : You always fight the better, faid I, How- 
came you to be taken Prifoner then, Friday} 

Friday^ My Nation beat much, for all that. 

Mafler, How beat ; if your Nation beat them, 
how come you to be taken? 

Friday^ They more many than my Nation in'the 
Place where me was j they take one, two, three, 
and me : My Nation over beat them in the yon- 
der Pjace, where me no was ; there my Nation 
take one, two, great Thoufand. 

Ma/lei-y But why did not your Side recover you 
from the Hands of your Enem-es then ? 

Friday, 



[ i54 ] 

Piiday, They run one, two, three, and me, and 
make go in the Canoe ; my Nation have no Canoe 
that Time. 

Maftery Well Fnday, and what does your Na- 
tion do with the Men they take, do they carry 
them away, and eat them as thefe did ? 

Friday^ Yes, my Nation eat Mans too, eat all 
up. 

Ma/ler, Where do they carry them ? 

Fridayy Go to other Place, where they think. 

Mafler, Do they come hither ? 

Friday, Yes, yes, they come hither i come other 
elfe Place. 

Maftery Have you been here with them ? 

Fridayy Yes, I been here , \_poims to the N. W. Side 
oj the Iflandy ivhich it feems ivas their Side.^ 

By this I underflood, that my Man Friday had 
formerly been among the Savages, who ufed to 
come on Shore on the farther Part of the Ifland, 
onthefaid Man-eating Occaiions that he was now 
brought for; and fome Time after, when I took 
the Courage to carry him to that Side, being the 
fame I formerly mencion'd, he prefently knew 
the Place, and told me, he was there once when 
they eat up twenty Men, two Women, and one 
Child: He could not tell twenty in Englijli -y but 
he numbred them by laying fo many Stones on a 
Row, and pointing to me to tell them over. 

I have told this Palfage, becaufe it introduces 
whatfollows; that after" I had had this Difcourfe 
with him, 1 ask'd him how far it was from our 
liland to the Shore, and whether the Canoes were 
not often loll ; he told me, there was no Danger, 
no Canoes ever loft; but that after a little Way out 
to the Sea, there was a Current, and a Wind, al- 
ways one Way in the Morning, the other in the 
Afternoon. 

This 



Thisi nnderflood to be no more than the Sets 
of the Tide, as going out, or coming in : but 1 
afterwards underftood it was occalion'd by the 
great Draft and Reflux of the mighty River O/oo- 
mque; in the Mouth or the Gulf of which River, 
as 1 found afterwards, our Ifiand Jay ; and this 
Land, which I perceived to the W. and N.W. was 
the great Ifland Trmidady on the N. Point of the 
Mouth of the River. 1 ask'd Friday a thoufand 
Queflions about the Country, the Inhabitants, the 
Sea, the Coaif, and what Nation were near ,• he 
told me all he knew^, with the greatefl Opennefs 
imaginable. I ask^'d him the Names of the feveral 
Nations of his Sort of People, bu: could get no o- 
ther Name than Carih; from whence I ealily un- 
derftood, that thefe were the Caribees, which our 
Maps place on that Part America which reaches 
from the Mouth of the River Oroonoque to Guianuy 
and onwards to St. Martha : He told me, that up a 
great Way beyond the Moon, that was beyond the 
Setting of the Moon, which muft be Weff from 
their Country, there dwelt white bearded Men, 
like me, and pointed to my great Whiskers, which 
I mentioned before ; and that they had killed much 
Mans, that was his Word : By all which I under- 
ftood, he meanM the Spaniards^ whofe Cruelties in 
America had been fpread over the whole Countries, 
and was remembered by all the Nations, from Fa- 
ther to Son. 

I enquired if he could tell me how I might come 
from thisKland, and get among thofe white Men ; 
he told me, yes, yes, I might go in two Canoe; I 
could not underftand what he meant, or make him 
defcribe to me what he meant by two Canoe, 'till at 
laft, with great Difficulty, 1 found he meant it muft 
be in a large great Boat, as big as two Canoes. 

This 



[ ^56 ] 

This ^art of F/ida/s DiTcoiirfe began to relifK 

' with mc very well, and from this lime 1 enter^ 

tain'd feme Hopes, that one Time or other I 

• might find an Opportunity to make myEfcape 

from this Place ; and that this poor Savage might 

be i Means to help me to do it. 

During the long Time that F/v/i^j' has now been 
with me, and that he began to (peak to me, and 
tmderftand me, I was not wanting to lay a Foun- 
dation of religious Knowledge in his Mind ; par- 
ticularly, I ask'd him oVie Time, Who made him ? 
The poor Creature did not underhand me at all, 
but thought I had ask'd who was his Father : But 
I took it by another Handle, and ask'd him who 
made the Sea, the Ground we walk'd on, and the 
Hills and Woods ; he told me it was one old Be- 
namuckee^ that liv'd beyond all ; He could dei'cribe 
nothing of this great Perfon, but that he was very 
old ; much older, he faid, than the Sea or the Land, 
than the Moon or the Stars ; I ask'd him then, If 
this old Perfon had made all Things, why did not 
all Things worfhip him ? He look'd very grave, 
and with a perfed Look of Innocence^ faid. All 
T'hingsfaidO to him-. I ask'd him if the People, 
who die in his Country, went away any where ? 
He {aid, Yes, they all went to ^^^^w/^c^^^: Then 
I ask'd him. Whether thefe they eit up went thi- 
ther too ? He faid. Yes. 

From thefe Things I began to inflrud him in 
the Knowledge of the true God. I told him. That 
the great Maker of all Things liv'd up there, ^ 
pointing up towards Heaven : That he governs 
the W^orld by the lame Power and Providence by 
which he had made it: That he was Omnipotent, 
could do every Thing for us, give every Thing to 
u$, take every Thing from us ; and thus, by De- 
grees, I open'd his %es. He lifieti'd with great At- 

tenfion 



[ 157 3 

tention, and receivM with Pkafure the Notion of 
yefia Chrifly being (ent to redeem us, and of the 
Manner ot making our Prayers to God, and his 
being able to hear us, even into Heaven. He told 
me one Day, that it our God could hear us up be- 
yond the Sun, he muft needs be a greater God than 
thtxi Benamuckeey who liv'd but a h'ttle Way off, 
and yet could not hear, *till they went up to the 
great Mountains where he dwelt, to fpeak to him : 
I ask'd him if ever he went thither, to fpeak to 
him? He faid. No, they never went that were 
young Men ; none went thither but the old Men, 
who he cali'd their Oowokakee^ that is^ as I made 
him explain it to me, their Religious, or Clergy^ 
and that they went to fay, 0, (fo he call'd faying 
Prayers) and then came back, and told them what 
Benamiickee faid. By this I obferv'd. That there 
is Prieflcraft, even amongft the moft blinded igno- 
rant Pagans iw the World ; and the Policy of ma- 
king a fecret Religion, in order to preferve the 
Veneration of the People to the Clergy, is not on* 
ly to be found in the Romany but perhaps among 
all Religions in the World, even among the moft 
brutifii and barbarous Savages. 

I endeavour'd to clear up this Fraud to my 
Man Fridayy and told him. That the Pretence of 
their old Men going up to the Mountains to fay O 
to their God Eenamuckeey was a Cheat, and their 
bringing Word from thence what he faid, was 
much more fo ; that if they met with any Anfwer, 
or fpoke with any one there, it muft be with an 
evil Spirit : And then I entet'd into a long Dif- 
courfe with him about the Devil, t^e Original of 
him, his Rebellion againft God, his Enimity to 
Man, the Reafon of it, his fetting himfeif up in 
the dark Parts of the World to be worfhipp'd in- 
flead of Godj and as God ; and the many Strata- 

S gems 



[i5S ] 



gems lie made ufe of to ddiide Mankind to thei^ 
Ruin ; how he had a fecret Accefs to oiirPalFions., 
and to our Affedions, to adapt his Snares fo to 
our Inclinations, as tocaufe us even to be our own 
Tempters, and tarun upon our Deftrudtion by ou^ 
own Choice. 

I found it was not fo cafy to imprint right No- 
tions in his Mind about the Devil, as it was about 
the Being of a God. Nature afTrfled all my Argu- 
ments to evidence to him even the Necefltty ot a 
great firfl Caufe and over-ruling governing Power^, 
a fecret directing Providence, and of the Equity 
and Juflice of paying Homage to him that made 
us, and the like. But there appear'd nothing of 
all this in the Notion of an evil Spirit, of his O- 
riginal, his Being, his Nature, and above all, of 
his Inclination to do Evil, and to draw us in to do 
fo too. And the poor Creature puzzled me once 
in fuch a Manner, by a Qiicflion meerly natural 
and innocent, that I fcarce knew what to fay to 
him. I had been talking a great deal to him of 
the Power of God., his Omnipotence, his dreadful 
Averfion to Sin, his being a confuming Fire to the 
Workers of Iniquity j how, as he had made us all,- 
he could deftroy us and all the World in -a Mo- 
ment ; and he liften'd with great Serioufnefs tome 
all the while. 

. After this, I had been telling him how the De- 
vil was God^s Enemy in the Hearts of Men, and 
ufed all his Malice and Skill to defeat the good 
Defigns of Providence, and to ruin the Kingdom 
of Chrifl in the World, and the like. Well, fays 
Fnday, but you fay, God is fo ftrong, fo grear, 
is he not much ftrong, much Might as the Devil ? 
Yes, yes, fays I, Friday , God is flronger than the 
Devil, God is above the Devil, and therefore we 
pray to God to tread him down under our Feet, 

and 



[ T-5^ ] 

'^nd enable us to rciift his Temptations, an<i 
(]uencri his fiery Dares. -S?^^, fays he again, tf 
'God much' fir ong^ much Might 06 the Devil, ichy God 
no kill the Devil^ fo make hhn no more do vjicked. 

I was itrangeiy furpriz'd at his Qiieftion, and 
after all, cho' I was now an old Man, yet 1 was 
but a young Do6cor, and ill cnoiign qualify 'd for 
a Cafuifl, or a Solver of Difficulties : And, at firft, 
I could not tell what to fay, fo I pretended not to 
hear him, and ask'd him what hcfaid ? But he was 
too earnefl for an Anfwer to forget his Queftion j 
lo that he repeated it in the very fame broken 
Words, as above. By this Time I had recovered 
myfelf a little, and I faid, God •will at lafi punijb 
him feuerely ; he is refervd for the jfudgment, and is 
to be cafi into the Bottomlefs Pit, to dwell with everlafi-^ 
ing Fire This did not fatisfy Friday, bi:! he re- 
turns upon me, repeating my Words, .Rri:?.vE 
AT LAST, me no tmderftand. But, why not kiU the Ue- 
uilmw, not kill great ago ? You may as well ask me^ 
faid I, Why God does not kill you and I, .vvhea 
we do v/icUed Things here -that oftend him ? Vve 
are preferv^d to repent and be pnvdond : He mufes 
a while at this j Well, well, fays he, mighty af* 
fedionately, that well ; fo you, I, Devil, all wicked^ 
all preferve, repent, God pardon all. Here I was run 
down again by him to the laft Degree, and it was 
a Teftimony to me, how the meer Notions of Na- 
ture, tho' they will guide reafonable Creat-i^s to 
the Knowledge of a God, and of a Worfhip or 
Homage due to the fupreme Being of Gcd, as ^be 
Confequence of our Nature; yer nothing but ai- 
vine Revelation can foi;m the Knowlrdge of Jefm 
Chrifi, and of a Redemption purchased for us, of a 
Mediator of the new Covenant3and of anintercef- 
for, at the Foot-Stool of God's Throne ; I lay, no- 
thing but a Revelation from Heaven^ can foim 

S 2 thefe 



[ i^o ] 

thefe in the Soul ; and that therefore the Gofpcl (j( 
our Lord and Saviour Jeffa Chn/i, I mean, the 
Word oF God, and the Spirit ot God, promised 
for the Guide and Sandtiher of his People, are tl-?e 
abfolutely neceflary Inflrridors ot the Souls of 
Men, in the faving Knowledge of God, and the 
Means of Salvation. 

1 therefore diverted the prefcnt Difcourfe be-* 
tween me and my Man, riling up haflily, as upon 
fomefudden Occaiion of going out; then fending 
him for fomething a good Way off, IferiouOy prayed 
to God, that he would enable me to inflru(5l faving- 
ly this poor Savage, alTifling by his Spirit the 
Heart of the poor ignorant Creature, to receive the 
Light of the Knowledge of God in Chrifiy recon- 
ciling him to himfelf, and would guide me to fpcak 
fo to him from the Word of God, as his Confci- 
ence might be convinc'd, his Eyes opened, and his 
Soul fav'd. When he came again to me, I entered 
into a long Difcourfe with him upon the Subjed of 
the Redemption of Man by the Saviour of the 
World, and of the Doctrine of the Gofpel preach'd 
from Heaven, 'viz,. ot Repentance towards God, 
and Faith in our blefled Lord Jef^. 1 then ex- 
plain'd to him, as well as I could, why our bleffed 
Redeemer took not on him the Nature of Angels, 
but the Seed of Abraham, and how for that Rea- 
fon the fallen Angels had no Share in the Redem- 
ption i that he came only to the loft Sheep of the 
Houfe of Jfraely and the like. 

I had, God knou'Sy more Sincerity than Know- 
ledge, in all the Methods I took for this poor Crea- 
ture's Inftrudion, and muft acknowledge what I 
believe all that ad upon the fame Principle will find, 
That in laying Things open to him, I really in- 
form'd andinftruded myfelfin many Things^ that 
cither 1 did not know, or had not fully confider'd 

before i 



before, but which occur'd natiirajly to my Mind, 
upon my iearching into them, for the Information 
of this poor Savage ; and I had more Afedion in 
my Enquiry after Things upon this Occafion, thaa 
ever I felt before ; fo that whether this poor wild 
Wretch was the better for me, or no, I had great 
Reafon to l^e thankful that ever he came to me : 
My Grief fer lighter upon me, my Habitation 
grew comfortable to me beyond Meafure ; and 
when I reflected that in this folitary Life which I 
had been con fin 'd to, I had not only been mov'd 
myfelf to look up to Heaven, and tofeek to the 
Hand that had brought me there ; but was now 
to be made an Inftrument under Providence to fave 
the Lite, and, jw ought I know y the Soul of a poor 
Savage, and bring him to the true Knowledge of 
Reigion, and of theChriftian Doftrine, that he 
might know Chriftjefus, to know whom is Life eterr 
nal. I fay, when I refle<5ted upon all tliefe Things, 
a fecrct Joy run throuirh every Part of my Soulj 
and I frequently rejoyc'd that ever I was brought 
to this Place, whicn I had fo often thought the 
mod dreadful of all Afflidions that could pofTibly 
have befallen me. 

Li this thankkil Frame I continued all the Re- 
mainder of my Time, and the Converfation which 
employed the Hours between Friday and I, was 
fuch, as made the three Years which we liv'd there 
together perfedly and compleatly happy, if any 
fuch T'hing as cornpleat Huppmefs can be form* din afub^ 
lunary State. The Savage was now a good Chri- 
ftian, a much better tii ui 1 ; tho' I have Reafoa 
to hope, and blefs God for it, that we were e- 
qually peniteia, and comforted reftor'd Penitents ; 
we had here the Word of God to read, and^ no 
farther off from his Spirit to inftrad, than if wc 
had been in England- 

3 3 I always 



[ ^61 ] 

I ahvays apply'd myfelf to reaclirif^ the Scrip- 
ture, to let him know, as well as 1 coukl, the 
Meaning of what I read ; and he again, by his fe- 
rious Enquiries and Queftions, made me, as If aid 
before^ a much better Scholar i\\ tiie Scripture 
Knowledge, than I fhould ever have been by my 
own private meer Reading. Another Thing 1 can- 
not refrain from obferving here alfo from Experi- 
ence, in this retir'd Part of my \.\{^y viz>. How in- 
finite and inexprelTible a Biefflng it is, that the 
Knowledge of God, and of the Doctrine of Salva- 
tion by ChrifiJefHi, is fo plainly laid down in the 
Word of God, fo eafy to be received and under- 
flood, that, as the bare reading the Scripture 
made me capable of underftanding enough of my 
Duty, to carry me dixcdly on to the great Work 
of iincere Repentance for my Sins, and laying hold 
of a Saviour for Li'io. and Salvation, to a llated' 
Reformation in Praftice, and Obedience to all 
God's Commands, and this without any Teacher, 
or Inftructor (I mean, human) fo the fame plain 
Inftrudtion fufficiently ferv'd to the Enlightning 
this Savage Creature, and bringing him to be 
fuch a Chriflian, as I have known few equal tc 
him in my Life. 

As to ail the Difputes, Wranglings, Strife, and 
Contention, which has happened in the World a- 
bout Religion, whether Niceties in Dodrines, or 
Schemes of Church Government, they were all per- 
i(t6(.\y ufelefs to us, as for ought 1 can yet fee, they 
have been to all the reft of the World : We had the 
fure Guide to Heaven, viz>. The Word of God ; 
and we had, bkjffd be God, comfortable Views of 
the Spirit of God, teaching and intruding us by 
his VVord, leading h', into all Truth, and making us 
both w.llin^ and obedient to the Tnflrnction of his 
Word ; and I cannot fee the lead Uie that the 

greateft 



[ 16^ ] 

.greatc/l Knowledge of the d iTpii ted Points in Re- 
ligion, which hav^e made fqch Confufions in the 
World, would have been to m^ if we could have 
obtain'd it: But 1 mufi go on with the HiftoricaJ 
Part ot Things, and take every Part in its Order. 

After Friday and I becanie more intimately acr* 
quainted, and that he could underftand almoil alj 
i laid to him, and fpeak fluently, tho^ in brokep 
E-^g^ifii^o me; I acquainted him with my own 
Story, or at leaft fo much of it as related to my 
coming into the Place^ how I had liv'd there, and 
how long. I let him into the Myftery, for fuch it 
was to him, of Gun-powder and'Builet, and taught 
liim how to flioot : I gave him a Knife, which he 
was wonderhilly delighted with, and I made hirn 
a Bell, with a Frog hanging to it, fuch as in Eng- 
land \vt wear Hangers in ; and in the Frog, in- 
ftead of a Hanger, I gave him a Hatchet, which 
was not only as gooda Weapon in fome Cafes, but 
much more ufeful upon other Occahons. 

I defcrib'd to him the Country oi Europe, and 
particularly &^/^;7«i, which I came from ; how we 
liv'd, how we worlhipp'd God, how we behav'd 
to one another ; and how we traded iw Ships to all 
Parts of the World : I gave him an Account of the 
Wreck which I had been on Board of, and fhewM 
him as near as I could, the Place where fhe lay ,* 
but (lie was all beacen in Pieces before, and gone. 

Ifhew'd him the Ruins of our Boat, which we 
loti when we efcap'd, and which I could notflir 
with my whole Stiength then, but was now fallen 
almoil: all to Pieces : tjpon feeing this Boat, Friday 
fbcd mufing a great while, and faid nothing,* I 
askM Wwri what it was he fludy''d upon ; atlaft, fays 
he, me fee fuch Boat like come to Place at my Nation* 

I did not underiiand him a good while; but at 
laftj when I had examin'd fartkc" into it^ 1 under- 

S 4 Hood 



[ 2(54 ] 

flood by him, that a Boat, fiich as that had been, 
came on Shore upon the Country wjiere he liv'd ; 
that isy as he explained it, was driven thither by 
Strefs of Weather : I prcfently imagined, that fome 
European Ship muft have been caft away upon 
their Coaft, and the Boat might get loofe, and 
drive afhore, but I was fo dull, that I never once 
thought of M^n making efcape from a Wreck thi- 
ther, much lefs whence they might come ; fo 1 on- 
ly enquired after a Defcription of the Boat. 

Friday dc^cviWd the Boat to mq well enough ; but 
brought me better to underftand him, when he ad- 
ded with fome Warmth, wefave the ivhite Mans from 
drown : Then 1 prefently ask'd him, if there wasa- 
ny white Mans, as he call'd them, in the Boat : 
TeSy he faid, the Beat full oj -vuhite Mans : I ask'd 
him how many ; he told upon his Fingers feven- 
teen : I ask'd him then, what became of them; he 
told me, they livcy they dwell at my Nation, 

This put new Thoughts into my Head ; for I 

Erefently imagined, that thefe might be the Men 
elonging to the Ship that was caO: away in Sight 
of my Ifland, as I now call it; and who, after the 
Ship was flruck on the Rock, and they f^w her 
inevitably loft, had fav'd themfelves in their Boat, 
and were Janded upon that wild Shore, among the 
Savages. 

Upon this, I enqiurM of him more critically 
what was become ot rliem .; he aflur'd me they 
liv'd Ml there; thar they had been there about 
four Years ; that the Savages let them alone, and 
gave them Viftuals to live. I ask'd him, how [t 
came to pafs they did not ki'l them and eat them ; 
he faid, No, thsy make Brother with them, that i , 
as I underftood him, a Truce : And then he ad- 
ded, 'They no eat Mans but when make the War fight : 
That is to fay, they never eat any Men, but 

fupj) 



C ^^5 ] 

fuch as come to fight with them, and arc taken 
in Battle. 

It was after this, fome condderable Time, that 
being on the Top of the Hill, at the Eaft Side 
of the llland, From whence, as I have faid, I had 
in a c'ear Day difcover'd the Main, or Continent 
oi America : Friday, the Weather being very ferene, 
looks very earneltly towards the main Land, and 
in a Idid of Surprize, hils jimping and dancing, 
and calls out to me, for I was at fome Diflarce 
frcm him : I ask'd hm what was the Matter; 
O, y(.y 1 fay he, O Glad ! 7 here fee my Country^ 
there mj Nat'iiitl 

I obfcrv'd an extraordinary Senfe of Pleafure ap- 
peared in his Face, end his Eyes fparkled, and his 
Countenance difcover'd a flrange Eagernefs, as if 
he had a Mind ro be in his own Country again ; 
and this Obfervaiicn of mine put a great many 
Thoughts into mic, which made me at firft not fo 
eafy about my new Man Jj/V/iy as I was before; 
and 1 made no Doubt, but that if FnW^j could get 
back to his own Nation again, he would not only 
forget all his Religion, but all his Obligation to 
me ; and would be forward enough to give his 
Countrymen an Account of me, and come back per- 
haps, with a hundred or two of them, and make a 
Fcaft upon me, at which he might be as merry as 
he ufed to -be with thofe of his Enemies, when 
they are taken in War. 

Bac I wrong'd the poor honeft Creature very 
much, for which I was very forry afterwards. 
However, as my Jealoufy increas'd, and held me 
fome VVeeks, I was a little more circumfped, and 
not fo familiar and kind to him as before; in 
which I was certainly in the Wrong too, the ho- 
r.cft grateful Creature having no Thought about it, 
but what coniiftcd wfth the beft Principles, both 

a5 



[ l66 ] 

fis a religious ChrilHan, and as a grateful Friend^ 
ks appcar'd afterwards to my full ^atisfadion. ' ' 

Wnile my Jealoufy of him lafted, you may be 
fure I was every Day pumping him to fee ii he 
would difcover any oi the new Thoughts, which I 
fufpecfted were in him ; but I found every Thing 
he faid was fo honeft, and fo innocent, that I 
could find nothing to noarifli my Sufpicion ; and, 
in fpite ot all my Uneafmefs, he made me at laft 
entirely his own again, nor did he in the leaft 
perceive that I was uneafy, and therefore I could 
not fufped him of Deceit. 

One Day walking up the fame Hill, but the 
Weather being hazey at Sea, fo that we could not 
fee the Continent, I calJ'd to him, and faid, Fn- 
dayy do yen not wifi'i yourfelf in your own Coun- 
try, your own Nation ?^ Tes, he faid, I be much Q 
glad to be at my oivn Nation. What would you do 
there, faid I, would 3^ou turn wild again, eat Mens 
Flefh again, and be a Savage as you were before ? 
He look'd full of Concern, and fhaking-his Head, 
faidj No^ no, Friday tell them to live good, tell them 
to pray Ged, tejlthem to eat Coni Bread, Cattle-Flefi, 
Milk, no eat Man again : Why then, faid I to him, 
T'hey iviH kill ycu ? He look'd grave at that, and 
then faid. No, they no kill me, they i^ilUng love learn : 
He'meantby this, they would be willing to leanio 
He'added, they learn 'd much of the Bearded-Mans 
that come in the Boat. Then laslvd him if he 
would go back to them ? He fmil'd at that, and 
toki.me he could not fwim fo far. I told him I 
would make a Canoe for him. He told me, he 
would go itl would go with h;'m. I go! fays T, 
why, they will eat me if 1 come there ? No, no', 
fayes he, me' make they no eat you, me make they much 
love, you. He meant, lie woiud tell rliem how I had 
luU'd his r.nemie.V; and Lv\i hi: Lire, and fo he 

would 



[ ^^7 ] 

vy:o.ulcltiake them love me ; then he told me, 'a§^ 
well as he could, how kind they were lol even teiri' 
white Men, or bearded Men, as he calJ'd them, 
who came on Shore there in Diflrefs. 

From this Time, I confefs, I had a Mind to . 
venture over, and fee if I could poiTiblyjoin wuh 
thefe bearded Men, who, I made no Doubt, where 
Sfaniards ov Portugtiefe ', not doubting but, if I could, 
we might find lome Method to efcape from 
thence, being upon tlie Continent, and a good 
Company together, better then I could from an 
Kland 40 Miles off the Shore, and alone without 
Help. So, after fome Days, 1 took Friday xo work 
again, by way of Difcourfe, and told him I would, 
give him a Boat to go back to his own Nation ; 
and accordingly I carry'd him to my .Frigate, 
which lay on tne other Side of the Ifland, and ha- 
ving clear'd it of Water, for I always kept it funk 
in the Water, I brought it out, (hew'd it him and 
we both went into it. 

I found he was a mofl dextrous Fellow at ma- 
na^^ing it, would make it go almoft as fwift and 
faft again as I could \ (o when he was in, I faidto 
him, ^t\U now, Fnday^ fhail we go to your Na- 
tion ? He look'd very dull at my faying fo, which, 
it feems was, becaufe he thought the Boat too . 
fmall to go fo far. I told him then I had a bigger 5 
fo the next Day I went to the Place where the 
lirft Boat lay which I had made, but which I could 
not get into Water* Hefaid that was big enough; 
bat then, as I had 1-2 ken noCare of it, and it had 
lain two or three and twenty Years there, the Sun 
had fplit and dry'd it, that it was in a Manner 
rotten. Friday told me, fuch a Boat would do ve- 
ry well, and would carry much enough Vittle, Drinky 
Byeady that was his Way of Talking. 

Upon 



C 268 ] 

Upon the whole, I was by this Time ft fix'd 
upon my Defign of going over with him to the 
Continent, that I told him we would go and make 
one as big as that, and he (hould go home in it. 
He anfwer'd not one Word, but look 'd very grave 
and fad: I ask'd him what was the Matter with 
Jiim; he ask'd me again thus. Why you angry mad 
•i^/>/; Friday, 'what ?ne done? I ask'd him what he 
m^nt ; I told him I was not angry with him at all. 
Noatigryl No angry [ fays he, repeating the Words 
feveral Times, IVJjy fend Vnd3.y home aimy to my 
Nation > Why, fays I, Friday y did you not fay you 
wifli'd you were there ? TVr, yes, fays he, u'///; be both 
there, m ivifi Friday there, no Mafter there. In a 
Word, he would not think ot going there without 
me : I go there, Friday, fays I, what (hall I do 
there? He turn'd very quick upon meatthis;To« 
do great deal much Good, fays he, you teach wild Mans 
be good fiber tame Alans -, you tell them know God, 
fray God, and live new Life. Alas, Friday, fays I, 
thou know'R not what thou fay 'ft, I am but an 
ignorant Man myfelf. Tes, yes, fays he, you teachce 
me Good, you teacloee them Good. No, no, Fridayy 
fays I, you (hall go without me, leave me here to 
live by myfelf, as I did before. He look'd confus'd 
again at that Word, and'Tuning to one of the 
Hatchets which he ufed to were, he takes it up 
haftily, and gives it me, What muft I do with this ^ 
fays 1 to' him : Tou take kill Friday, fays he : 
What muft I kill you for ? Said I again. He re- 
rums very quick, IVhat you fend Friday away 
far ? Take kill Friday, no fend Friday away. This 
he fpoke fo earnefHy, that I faw Tears ftand 
irt his Eyes. In a Word, I fo plainly difcover'd 
the urmbft Aftection in him to me, and a firm Re- 
foution in him, that I told him then, and often 
ifrer, that I would neve: fend him away from me, 
't he was \^ illing to flay with me. Up- 



1 169 i 

Upon the Whole, as I found by all his Difcour/e 
a ftttlcd Arte(^tion to me, and that noticing fliOLild 
part him Iroin nie, lo 1 found all the Foundarion 
oFhis Defue to go to ins own Country, was laid 
in his ardent AfFtction to the Peeplc, and his Hopes 
of my doing them good ; a Thing whicii as I had 
no Notion ot myfelf, fo I had not the leaft Thought: 
or Intention, orDelireof undertaliircrit. Bur i\i\l 
I found a flrong Ir.clination to my attempting an 
Efcapc, as above, founded on the Suppolition ga- 
thered from the Difcourfe, (viz..) That there ^vere 
fcventecn bearded Men there; and therefore, with- 
out any more Delay, 1 went to work with Friday 
to find out a great Tree proper to fell, and mai.e a 
large Periagua or Canoe to undertake the Voyage. 
There were Trees enough in the Ifland to have 
built a little Fleet, not of Periagues and Canoes, 
but even of good large Vefl'els. But the main Thing 
I look'd at, was to get one fo near the Water that 
we might launch it when it was made to avoid 
the Miftake 1 committed at fuft. 

At laft Friday pitched upon a Tree, for I found he 
knew much better than I what Kind of Wood was 
fitted for if, nor can I tell, to this Day, what Wood 
to call the Tree we cut down, except that it was 
very like the Tree we call Fujlic^ or between th:^t 
and the Nnaragua Wood, for it was much of the 
fame Colour and Smell. Friday "^^iS for burning the 
Hollow or Cavity of this Tree out to make it for 
a Boat : But I (liew'd him how rather to cut it out 
with Tools-, which, after I had (hew 'd him how 
to ufe, he did very handily, and in about a Month's 
hard Labour, he finifh'd it, and made it very 
handfome, efpecially when with our Axes, which I 
fliew'd him how to handle, we cut and hew'd the 
OuL-fide into the true Shape of a Boat ,* after this^ 
however, it coft us near a Fortnights Time to get 

her 



[ ^70 ] 

her along, as it were Inch by Inch upon grc^t 
Rowlers into the Water. But when flie was in, 
fhe would have cairry^d twenty Men with great 
Eafe. 

When file was in the Water, aiid thb' (he was fo 
higy it amaz'd me to fee with what Dexterity and 
how fwift my Man Friday would manage her, turn 
her, and paddle her along ; fo I ask'd him, if he 
would, and if weniight venture over in her; Tes, he 
Xaid, he 'venture over in her very v:elly iho' great How 
Wind* However, I had a farther Defign, that he 
knew nothing o^, and that was to make a Maft and 
Sail, and to fit her witii an Anchor and Cable : As 
to a Maft, that was eafy enough to get; fo I pitched 
upon a flrait young Cedar-Tree, which I found 
near the Place, and which there was great Plenty 
of in the liland ; and I fet Priddy to work to cut it 
down, and gave him Diredions how to fhape and 
order it. But as to the Sail, that was my particular 
Care> I knew I had old Sails, or rather Pieces of 
old Sails enough; but as I had had them now 26 
Years by me, and had not been v^ery careful to 
preferve them, not imagining that 1 fhould ever 
have this kind of Ufe for them, I did not doubt 
but they were ail rotten, and indeed mofi: of them 
were fo; however, I found two Pieces which ap- 
peared pretty good, and wq'th thefe I v/entto work, 
and with a great deal of Pains, and awkward tedi- 
ous flirchiiig (you may be fure) for want of Needles, 
I at length made a three-corner'd ugly Thing, like 
what we call in England, a Shoulder of Muttoii 
Sail, to %Q with a Boom at Bottom, and a little 
fhort Sprit at the Top, fuch as ufuaily our Sliips 
Long-Boats fail with> and inch as I beft knew iiow 
to manage; bccaufe it v>as fuch a one as I had to 
the Boat in v.hich I made my Efcape from Ba,biV 
ry^ $,s related in the fird Part of my Story. 

I was 



[ 271 ]^ _ 

i was near two Months performing tins lal! 
Work, z'f:^: rigg ng and Hucingmy Mail and Sails ,- 
for I finifnYi them V'cry compkat, making a fmali 
Stay, and a Sail, or Forefail to it, to afTifl, if we 
fhoLild turn to Windward; and whicli was more 
then all, I fix'd a Rudder to the Stern of her, to 
fleer with; and tho' I was bnt a bungling Ship- 
wright, yet as I knew the Ufefiilnefs, and even 
Necefllty q[ fuch a Thing, I apply 'd myfelf witli 
fo much Pains to do it, that at laftl brought it to 
pafs, tho' confidering the many dull Contrivances 
I had for it that fail'd, I think it coll: me almofl as 
much Labour as making the Boat, 

After all this was done too, I had my Man Fr/- 
day to teach as to whatbelong'd to the Navigation 
of my Boat ; for tho' he knew very well how to 
paddle a Canoe, he knew norhing what belong'd to 
a Sail and a Rudder, and was the moft amaz'd 
when he faw me work the Boat too and again in 
the Sea by the Rudder, and how the Sail gyb'd, and 
filled this V/ay or that Way, as the Courfe wefail'd 
chang'd ; I fay, when he faw this, he ftood like 
one aHonifh'd and amaz'd : However, wirh a little 
Ufe, I made all thefe Things familiar to hiui ,* and 
he became an expert Sailor, except that as to the 
Compafs, I could make him underfland very little 
of that. On the other hand, as their was very little 
cloudy Weather, and feld om or never any Fogs in 
thofe Parts, there was the lefs Occahon for a Com- 
pafs, feeing the Stars were always to be feea by 
Night, and the Shore by Day, except in the rainy 
Seafons, and then no Body cared to ftir abroad, ei- 
ther by Land or Sea. 

I was now entered on the feven and twentieth 
Year of my Captivity in this Place ,* tho' the 
three laft Years that I had this Creature with me, 
ought rather to be left out of the Account, my Ha- 
bitation 



bitation being quite of another Kind than all thq 
teft of the Time. I kept the Anniverfary of my 
landing here with the fame Thankfulnefs to God 
for his Mercies, as at firfl; and if I had fuch Caufe 
of Acknowledgment at firft, I had much more fo 
now, having fuch additional Teflimonies of the 
Care of Providence over me, and the great Hopes 
I had of being effedually and fpeedily delivered •, 
for I had an invincible ImpreiHon upon my 
Thoughts, that my Deliverance was at hand, and 
that I fliould not be another Year in this Place : 
However, I went on with my Husbandry, digging, 
};vlanting, fencing, as ufual,* 1 gathered andcur'dmy 
Grapes, and did every necelTary Thing, as before. 

The rainy Seafon was in the mean Time upon 
me, when 1 kept more within Doors than at other 
Times ; To I had flow'd our new Veflel as fccureas 
we could, bringing her up into the Creek, where, 
as I faid, in the Beginning I landed my Rafis from 
the Ship, and hah'ngherup to the Shore, at High 
Water Mark, I made my Man Friday dig a little 
Dock, juil big enough to hold her, and juit deep e- 
nough to give her Water enough to float in^ and 
then, when the Tide was out, Ave made a ftrong 
Dan crofs the End of it, to keep the Water out; 
and fo fhe lay dry, as ro the Tide, from the Sea ; 
and to keep tht Rain oft*, we laid a great many 
Boughs of Trees, fo thick, that fhe was as well 
tharch'd as a Hoiife ;, and thus we waited for the 
Month oi No'-jenibey and Decembe:\ in which I de- 
i]gn*d to make my Adventure. 

Whc-n the fettled Seaibn began ro come in, as 
the Thought ot- my Delign returned with the fair 
Weather, I was preparing d:iiiy for the Voyage ; 
-jnd thchrft Thing 1 did> was to hiy by a certain 
Qtunrity of Provilions, bci/.g the Scores for our 
Voyage; and intended, in a VVeek or a Fortnight's 

Time, 



[ ^75 ] 

Time, to open the Dock, and launch out our Boat. 
I was bufy one Morning upon fome Thing of this 
kind, when I call'd to Fndayy and bid him go to the 
Sea Saore, and fee it" he could find a Turtle, or 
Toitoifc, a Thing which we generally aot once a 
Week, for the Sake of the Eggs, as well as the 
Flefli : Friday had not been long gone, when he 
came running out, and flew- over my outer Wall, 
or Fence, like one that felt not the Ground, or the 
Steps he fet his Feet on ; and before I had Time to 
fpeak to him, he cries out to me, O Mafler ! Ma- 
fterl Sorrow I Obad! What's the Matter, i^nV/^^, 
fays I ', O yonder, there, fays he, one^ tivo, three Came ! 
one^ two, three! By his way of fpeaking, I conclu- 
ded there were fix ; but iG^n Enquiry I found it wa^ 
but three : Well, hiday, fa)^s I, do not be frighted ; 
fo I hearten'd him up as well as I could : However, 
I faw the poor Fellow was moft terribly fcar'd ; for 
nothing ran in his Head but that they were come to 
look for him, and would cut him in Pieces, and eat 
him ; and the poor Fellow trembled fo, that I 
fcarce knew what to do with him : I comforted him 
as well as I could, and told him, I was in as much 
Danger as he, and that they would eat me as well as 
him ; but, fays I, Friday, we miifl refohe to fight them; 
Can you fight, Friday? Me flmty fays he, but there 
come many, great Number, No matter for that, faid 
Fagain, our Guns will fright them that we do not 
kill ; fo I ask'd him. Whether if 1 refolv'd to defend 
him, he would defend me, and ftand by me, and do 
juft as I bid him ? He faid, Me die, when you bid die, 
M'lfter ; fo I went and fetched a good Dram of 
Rum, and gave him j for I had been fogood a Hu{- 
band of my Rum, that I had a great deal left : 
When he had drank it, I.made him take the two 
Fovvling-Pieces, which We always carry 'd, and loa4 
them withlarg^ Swan-Shot, as big as fmall Piiiol 
T Bullet? ; 



, L ^74 ] 

Bullets i then I took four Muskets, and loaded thenl 
with two Slugs, and five fmall Bullets each,- and 
my two Piftols I loaded with a Brace of Bullets 
each ; I hung my great Sword as ufual, naked by 
my Side, and gave Friday his Hatchet. 

When I had thus prepar'd my felf, I took my 
Perfpedivc GJafs, and went up to the Side of the 
Hill, to fee what L could difcover; and I found 
quickly, by my Glafs, that there were one and twen- 
ty Savages, three Pri Toners, and three Canoes; 
and that their \vhole Bufinefs fcem'd to be the tri- 
umphant Banquet upon thefe three human Bodies, 
(a barbarous Feafl indeed) but nothing more than 
as I had obferv'd was ufual with them. 

I obfervM alfo, that they were landed not where 
they had done when Friday made his Efcape, but 
nearer to my Creek, where the Shore was lov/, and 
where a thick Wood came clofe almoft down to the 
Sea : This, with the Abhorrence of the inhuman 
Errand thefe Wretches came about, fiil'd me with 
fuch Indignation, that I came down again to Fri- 
day, and told him, I was refolv'd to go down to 
them, and kill them all ; and ask'd him if he would 
ftand by me? He had now gotten over his Fright;, 
and his Spirits being a little raised with the Dram 
I had given him, he wa3 very chearfui, and told 
me, as before, he ivoulci die, ii:hen I bid die. 

In this Fit of Fury, I took firft and divided the 
Arms which I had charg'd, as before, between us : 
I gave Friday one Pifiol to flick in his Girdle, and 
three Guns upon his Shoulder ; and I took one Pi- 
ilol, and the other three myfelf ; and in this Po- 
fture we march'd out : I took a fmall Bottle of Rum 
in my Pocket, asd gave Friday a large Bag, with 
more Powder and Bullet; and, as to Orders, I 
charg'd him to keep clofe behind me, and not to 
ftir, or flioot; or do any Thing, till 1 bid him ; and 

in 



r^75 ] 

in the mean Time, not to fpeak a Word : In this 
Pofltire I fetch'd a Compafs to my right Hand o^ 
near a Mile, as well to get over the Creek, as to 
get into the Wood ; (o that I might come within 
Shot of chem before I fhould be difcover'd, which 
I had feen by my Glafs it was eafy to do. 

While I was making this March, my former 
Thoughts returning, I began to abate my Refolu- 
tion ; I do not mean, that I entertain'd any Fear 
of their Number i for as they were naked, unarmM 
Wretches, "'tis certain I was fuperior to them ; nay, 
though I had been alone,- but it occuc'd to my 
Thoughts, What Call ? What Occafion ? Much 
lefs, What Necefllty I was in to go and dip my 
Hands in Blood, to attack People, who had neither 
done, or intended me any Wrong ? Who, as to me, 
were innocent, and whofe barbarous Cuftoms were 
their own Dlfafter, being in them a Token indeed^ 
of God's having left them, with the other Nations 
of that Part of the World, to fuch Stupidity and 
to fuch inhuman Courfes ,' but did not call me to 
take upon me to be a Judge of their Anions, much 
lefs an Executioner of his Juflice ; that whenever 
he thought fit, he would take the Caufe into his 
own Hands, and by National Vengeance punifti 
them as a People for National Crimes ; but that, 
in the mean time it was none of my Bulinefs ; that 
it was true, Friday might juflify it, becaufe he was 
a declared Enemy, and in a State of War with thofe 
very particular People ; and it was lawful for him 
to attack them ; but I could not fay the fame with 
refped to me. Thefe Things were fo warmly 
prefs'd upon my Thoughts, all the Way as I went, 
that I refolv'd I would only go and place myfelf 
near them, that I might obferve their barbarous 
F«aft, and that I would ad then as God fhould 
dired ; but that- uiijefs fomething offer'd that was 

T 2 more 



[ -^1^ ] 

more a Call- ro me than yet I knew of, I vwultt 
not meddle with them. 

With this Refoiution I enter^'d the Wood, and 
with all poflible Warinefs- and Silence, Friday fol- 
lowing clofe at my Mse!S; I march 'd till I came 
to the Skirt of the Wood, on the Side which was- 
next to them; only that one Corner of the Wood 
jay between me and them ^ here I call'd foftly to 
Friday, and (hewing him a great Tree, which was 
juft at the Corner of tlic Wood, I bad him go to 
the Tree, and bring me Word i( he could fee there 
plainly what they were doing ,* he did fo, and came 
immediately ba^k to me,- and told me they might 
be plainly viewed there ; that they were all about 
their Fire, eating the Flefh of one of their Prifo- 
ners ; and that another Jay bound upon the Sand, 
a little from them, which he faid they would kiR- 
next, and ^vhich fir'd all the very Soul within mcj 
he told me it was not one of their Nation, btit one- 
of the bearded Men, who he had told me of, that 
came to their Country in the Boat ; I was fill'd 
with Horror at the very naming the white-bearded 
Man, and going to the Tree, 1 faw plainly, by my 
Glafs, a white Man who lay upon the Beach of 
the Sea, with his Hands and his Feet ty'd with 
Flags, or Things like Ruflies ; and that he was an 
European, and liad Cloaths on. 

There was another Tree, and a little Thicket 
beyond it, about fifty Yards nearer to them than 
the Place where I was, which by going a little way 
about, I faw I might come at undifcover'd, and 
that then I fliould be within half Shot of them ,* fo 
I wirh-h.eld my Pallion, though I was indeed en- 
raged ro the highefl Degree, and going back about 
twenty Paces, I got behind feme Bufiies, which held 
all the way, till I came to the oiher Tree; and then 
I came to a little riling Groundj which gave me a 

full 



[ ^77 ] 

full View of them, at the Diftance of about eigh- 
ty Yards. 

I had now not a Monient to lofe ,- for nineteen 
of the dreadful Wretches fate upon the Ground, all 
clofe huddled together, and liad jufl fent the other 
two to butcher the poor Chri/iian, and bring him, 
perhaps. Limb by Limb, to their Fire, and they 
were fioop'd down to untie the Bands at his Feet ; 
I turn'd to Friday^ now Friday^ faid I, do as I bid 
thee 'y Friday faid he would ; then Friday^ fays I, 
do exadly as you fee me do, fall in nothing : So I 
fet down one of the Muskets, and the Fowling- 
piece, upon the Ground, and Fiiday did the like 
by his y and with my other Musiet I took my 
Aim at the Savages, bidding him do tbe like; 
then asking him if he was ready, he faid, yes j 
then fire ac th^ni, i:iid I j and the fame Moment 
I firM alfo. 

Friday took his Aim fo much better than I, that 
'on the Side that he lliot., he kilfd two of them, 
and wounil-cd three more ; and on my Side, I killed 
one and wound-ed two. They were, you may be 
fure, in a dreadful Confternation ; and aU of them, 
who were not hurt, jumpM up upon their Feet, 
but did not immediately know which Way to run^ 
or which Way to look j for rhey knew not from 
whence their Dcftrudion came : Friday kept hi5 
Eyes clafc upon me.^ that a- I had bid him, he 
might obferve what I did; ksy 2.S foon as the firfl 
Shot was made, I threw down the Piece, and took 
up the Fowling-Piece, and Friday did the like j he 
fee me cock and prefent, he did the fame again : 
Are you rt- ady, Friday ? faid I, Yes, fays he i let 
•fly then, fays 1, in the Name of God, and with 
that I hr'd again among the amazed WietcJies, and 
•fo did Friday ; and as our Pieces were now loaden 
with what I cali'd Swan Shot, otfmall PiftolBul- 

T ; lees 



[ ^78 ] 

lets, we found only two drop ; but fo many were 
wounded, that they ran about yelling and skream- 
ing lik mad Creatures, alJ bloody, and miferably 
^ypunded moft of them ,• whereof three more fell 
quickly after, tho' not quite dead. 

Now, Fiidajy fays I, (laying dovvn the 6^\{' 
chargM Pieces, and taking up the Musket, which 
was yet loaden) follow me, fays I, which he ^i^^^ 
with a great deal of Courage ; upon which I rufh'd 
out of the Wood, and fhew'd myfelf, and Friday 
clofe at my Foot j as foon as I perceiv'd they faw 
me, I ihouted as loud as I could, and bad Friday 
do fo too ; and running as faft as I could, which, 
by the Way, was not very faft, being loaden with 
Arms as I was, I made direftly towards the poor 
Vidim, who was, as I faid, lying upon the Beach, 
or Shore, between the Place where they fate, and 
the Sea; the two Butchers, who were jufl going 
to work with him, iiad left him, at the Surprize of 
our firft Fire, and fled in a terrible Fright to the 
Sea-fide, and had jump'd into a Canoe, and three 
more of the reft made the fame Way : I turn'd to 
Friday, and bid him Hep forwards, and fire at them ; 
he underftood me immediately, and running about 
forty Yards to be near them, he fliot at them, and 
I thought he had kill'd them all, for I fee them all 
fall of a Heap into the Boat ,• though I faw two of 
them up again quickly : However, he killM two 
of them, and wounded the third j fo that he lay 
down in the Bottom of the Boat, as if he had been 
dead. : - 

While^ my>lan Friday fir'd at them, I pull'd out 
my Knife, and cut the Flags that bound the poor 
Vu'rtim, and fooling his Hands and Feet, I lifted 
him up, and ask'd him, in ih^ Portuguefe Tongue, 
what he was? He anfwer'd in Latin, Chriftianns ; 
but was fo weak and faint^ that he could fcarce 
' ■ ftand, 



C ^79 1 

fland or fpeak ; I took my Bottle out of my Poc- 
ket, and gave it him, making Signs that he fhould 
drink, which he did ; and I gave him a Piece of 
Bread, which he eat : Then I ask'd him, What 
Countryman he was ? And he faid, EJpagnioie; and 
being a little recovered, let me know by all the 
Signs he could poffibly make, how much he was 
in my Debt for his Deliverance : Seignior^ faid I, 
with as much SpanJjh^iS I could make up, we will 
talk afterwards, but we mufl: fight now ; if you 
have any Strength left, take this Piftol and Sword, 
and lay about you. He took them very thankfully, 
and no fooner had he the Arms in his Hands, but 
as if they had put new Vigour into him, he flew 
upon his Murderers like a Fury, and had cut two 
of them in Pieces in an Inflant -, for the Truth is, 
as the Whole was a Surprize to them, fo the poor 
Creatures were fo much frighted with the Noife of 
our Pieces, that they fell down for mere Amaze- 
ment and Fear, and had no more Power to at- 
tempt their own Efcape, than their Flefh had to 
refill: our Shot ,• and that was the Cafe of thofe 
five that Friday fhot at in the Boat ; for as three 
of them fell with the Hurt they received, fo the o- 
ther fell with the Fright. 

I kept my Piece in my Hand flill, without firing, 
being willing to keep my Charge ready, becaufe I 
had given x.h(z Spaniard my Piftol and Swords; fol 
call'd to Friday^ and bad him run up to the Tree 
from v/hence we firfl fir'd, and fetch the Arms 
which lay there, that had been difcharg'd, which 
he did with great Swiftnefs ; and then giving him 
my Musket, I fat down myfelf to load all the refl 
again, and bad them come to me when they want- 
ed. While I was loadmg thefe Pieces, there hap- 
pened a fierce Engagement between the Spaniard and 
one of the Savages, who made at him with one of 

T 4 their 



[280] 



their great wooden Swords, the fame Weapon that 
was to have kill'd him before, if I had not pre- 
vented it : The Spaniard^ who was as bold and as 
brave as could be imagined, though weak, had 
fought this Indian a good while, and had cut him 
two great Wounds on his Head i but the Savage 
being a (tout iufly Fellow, clofini^ in with him, 
had thrown him down, being fainr, and was 
wringing my Sword out of his Hand, when the Sfa- 
niardy tho' undermofl, wii'el} qL;itting the Sword, 
drew the Piftol from his Girdle, (hot the Savage 
through the Body, and kili'd him upon the Spot, 
before I, who was running to help him^ could come 
near him. 

Fiiday being now left to liis ^.iberty, purfu'd the 
flying Wretches with no V/ca^on in his Hand but 
his Hatchets a»d with th:i/ he difpatch'd thofe 
three, who, as I faid before, ivere wounded at firft, 
and fallen, and c\\ tie reft he could come up watli , 
and the Spaniard cornirg to me for a Gun, I gave 
him one of the Fowling-Pieces, with which he 
purfu'd two of the Savages, and wounded them 
bothi but as he was not able to ruR^ they both 
got from him into the Wood, where jp/7^'^j:4)urfu'd 
them, and kill'd one of thcm^ butthe oiher was 
too nimble for him ; and tho' he was wounded, yet 
had plung'd himfelf into the Sea, and fwam with 
all his Might off to thofe two who were left in the 
Canoe, which three in the Canoe, with one wound- 
ed, who w^e know^ not whether he dy'd or no, were 
all that efcap'd our Hands of one and twenty : The 
Account of the reil is as follows : 

3 Kill'd at our firfl Shot from the Tree. 

2 Kill'd at the next Shot. 

2 Kiird by Fridy in the Boat. 

2 Kiir'd by Ditto^ Tif thofe at firft wounded. 

I Kill'd 



[28l ] 

I Kill'd by Ditto in the Wood. 

3 Kill'd by the Spaniard. 

4 Kill'd, being foLir.d dropp'd here and there of 
their Wounds, or kill'd by F^-iduy in his Chafe 
of them. 

4 Efcap'd in the Boat, whereof one wounded, if 
not dead. 

21 In all. 

Thofe that were in the Canoe, workM hard to 
get out otGun-Shot; and though Fndu) mdid^ two 
or three Shot at them, I did not find "that he \\it 
any of them. Friday would fain have had me took 
one of their Canoes, and purfu'd them ,• and indeed 
I was very anxious about their Efcape, leaf): carry- 
ing the News Home to their People, they ihould 
come back, prehaps, with two or three hundred of 
their Canoes; and devour us bymeerMuititude,* fo 
Iconfented to purft:e them by Sea, and running to 
one of their Canoes, I jump'd in, and bad Friday 
follow me ; but when I wa^' in the Canoe, I was 
furpriz'd to find another poor Creature lie there a- 
live, bound Hand and Foot, as the Spaniard was, 
for the Slaughter, and a! mofi; dead with Fear, not 
knowing what the Matter was; for he had net been 
able to look up over the Side of the Boat, he was 
ty'd fo hard. Neck and Heels, and had been ty'd fo 
long, that he had really but little Life in him. 

I immediately cut the twifled Flags, or Rnfhes, 
which they had bound him with, and would hare 
helped him up ; but he could not ftand, or fpcik, 
but groan'd moftpetioudy, believing (it feems) itill 
that he Vw^as only unbound ?n order to be kill'd. 

When Friday came to him, I bad him fpeak to 
him, and tell him of his Deliverance, and puilfog 
out my Boitle, made him give the poor Wretch a 

Dram, 



[ ^82. ] 

Dram, which, with the News of his being deli- 
ver'^, reviv d him, and he Tat up in the Boat ; but 
when Friday came to hear him (peak, and look 
in iusFac^, it would have mov'd anyone to Tears, 
Id have ieen how i^r/W^j' ki^^'d him, embrac'd him, 
iiugg'd him, cry'd, langh'd, hollow'd, jump'd a- 
boLit, danc'd, lung, then cry\l again, wrung his 
Hands, beat his own Face and Head, and then 
lung, and jump'd about again, h'ke a dillraded 
Creature : It was a good while before I could make 
himfpeak tome, or tell me what was the Matter; 
but when he came a little to himfelf, he told me, 
that it was his Father. 

It is not eafy for me to exprefs how it mov'd 
me to fee what Exfcafy and filial Affedion had 
work\i in this poor Savage, at the Sight of his Fa- 
ther, and of his b^ing delivered from Death ; nor 
indeed can I defcribe half the Extravagancies of his 
Aftedion after thisj for he went into the Boat and 
out of the Boat a great many Times : When he 
went in to him, he would fit down by him, open 
his Breafl, and hold his Father^s Head clofe to his 
Bofom half an Hour together, to nourifh it ; then 
he took his Arms and Ankles, which were numb'd 
and ftifF with the Binding, and chafed and rubbed 
them with his Hands ; and I perceiving what the 
Cafe was gave him fome Rum out of my Bottle 
to rub them with, which did them a great deal ot 
Good. 

This Action put an End to ourPurfuit of the 
Canoe, v/ith the other Savages, who were now 
gotten almcfc cut ot Sight; and it was happy for 
us that wc did not ^ for it blew fo hard v/ithin two 
Hours after, and before they could be gotten a 
Qtiarter of their Way, and continued blowing (o 
hard all N.ght, and that from the North-Weft, 
which was againft tl.cm, that 1 coiud nor fuppofe 

their 



[ ^83 ] 

there Boat could live, or that they ever reach'd to 
their own Coaft. 

But to return to Fridayy he was fo bufy about 
his Father, that I could not find in my Heart to 
take him off for feme Time: But after I thought 
he could leave him a little, I caird him to me, 
and he came jumping and laughing, and pleas'dto 
the higheft Extream ; then I ask^d him, If he had 
given his Father any Bread? He fhook his Head, 
and fa.'d, None : Ugly Dog eat all up fslf; fo I gave 
\\\m a Cake of Bread out of a little Pouch I carry 'd 
on Purpofe ; I alfo gave him a Dram for himfelf, 
but he would not tafte it, but carryM it to his Fa- 
ther : I had in my Pocket alfo two or three Bunches 
of my Raifins, fo Igave him a Handful of them 
for his Father. He had no fooner given his Fa- 
ther thefe Raifins, but I faw him come out of the 
Boat, and run away as if he had been bewitch'd, 
he ran at fuch a Rate; for he was the fwiftefl Fel- 
low of his Foot that ever I faw,* I fay, he run at 
fuch a Rate, that he was out of Sight, as it were, 
in an Inflant ; and though I call'd, and hollow'd 
too, after him, it was ail one, away he went, and 
iri a Quarter of an Hour, I faw him come back a- 
gain, though not fo fail: as he went ,* and as he 
came nearer, I found his Pace was flacker, becaufe 
he had fomething in his Hand. 

When he came up to me, I found he had been 
quite Home for an earthen Jugg or Pot to bring 
his Father fome frefli Water, and that he had got 
two more Cakes, or Loaves ofBread: The Bread 
he gave me, but the Water he carry 'd to his Father: 
However, as Iwas very thirffy too, I took a little 
Sup of it. This water reviv'd his Father more 
than all the Rum or Spirits I had given him; for 
he was juft fainting with Thirft. 

When 



[ 284 ] 

When his Father had drank, I call'd to him to 
know if there was any Water left ; he faid, yes ; 
and 1 bad him give it to the poor Spaniard, 
who was in as much want of it as his Father ; 
and I fent one of the Cakes, that Friday brought, 
to the Spaniard too, who was, indeed, very weak, 
and was repoiing himfelf upon a green Place, under 
the Shade of a Tree, and whofe Limbs were alfo 
very ftiff, and very much fweifd with the rude 
Bandage he had been ty'd witli. When I faw tliat, 
upon Friday's coming to him with the Water, he 
fate up and drank, and took the Bread, and began 
to ear, I went to him, and gave him a Handful of 
Raifins ; he look'd up in my Face with all the To- 
kens of Gratitude and Thankfulnefs that could ap- 
pear in any Countenance,* but was fo weak, not- 
withflanding he had io exerted himfelf in the Fight, 
that he could not Hand upon his Feet> he try'd to 
do it two or three Times, but was really notable, 
his Ankles were fo fwell'd and fo painful to him j 
fo I bad him fit flill, and can fed Friday to rub his 
Ankles, and bath them with Rum, as he had done 
his Father's. 

I obferv'd the poor affectionate Creature every 
tv/o Minutes, or perhaps lefs, all the while he 
was here, turn'd his Head about, to fee if his Fa- 
ther was in the lame Place and Poflure as he left 
him fitting ; and at laft he found he was not to 
be feen ; at which he flatted up, and, without 
fpeaking a Word, flew with that Swiftnefsto him, 
that one could fcarce perceive his Feet to touch 
the Ground as he went : But when he came, he 
only found he had laid himfelf down to eafe his 
Limbs ; fo Friday came back to me prefently, and 
1 thai fpoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help 
him up if he could, and lead him to the Boat, and 
'hen he fhould carry him to oui' Dwellirg, where 

I would 



I would take cave of him : But Fnday^ a lufif 
ftrong Fellow, took the Spaniard quite up upo[^ 
his Back, and carry 'd him away to the Boat, and 
fcthiia down foFtiy upon the Side or Gunnel ot 
the Canoe, with his Feet in the in(ide ot it, and then 
lifted him quite in, and fee him clcfe to his Fa- 
ther, and prefently flepping out again, launched 
the Boat oftj and paddled it along tlie Shore tafter 
than 1 could walk, though the VV'ind blew pretty 
hard too ; To he brought them both fafe into our 
Creek, and leaving them in the Boat, runs away 
to fetch the other Canoe. As hepafs'd me, I 
fpoke to him, and ask'd him, wheuher he went, 
he told me. Go fetch more Boat ; fo away he went 
like the Wind j for fure never Man or Horfe run 
like him, and he had the other Canoe in the Creek 
almoft as foon as 1 got to by Land ,* fo he wafted 
me over, and then went to help our new Guefls 
out of the Boat, which he did : but they were nei- 
ther of them able to walk ,* fo that poor Friday 
knew not what to do. 

To remedy this I went to work in my Thought, 
and calling to Friday to bid them lit down on the 
Bank whi)e he came to me, I foon made a Kind 
of Hand^Barrow to lay tiiem on, and Friday and I 
carry 'd them up both together upon it between us : 
But when we had got them to the Outfide of our 
Wall or Fortification, we were at a worfe Lofs than 
before ; for it was impolTible to get them over, and 
I was refolv'd not to break it down : So I fet to 
Work again, and Friday and I, in about two Hours 
Time, made a very handfom Tent, cover'd with 
old Sails, and above that with Boughs of Trees, 
being in the Space without our outward F'ence, 
and between that and the Grove of young Wood 
which I had planted : And here wc made them two 
Beds of fuch Things as I had, {v^x..) of good Rice- 
Straw, 



[ i26 ] 

Straw, with Blankets laid upon it, to lie on, and 
another to cover them on each Bed. 

My Ifland was now peopled, and I thought my 
felf very rich in Subjeds; and it was a merry Re- 
fledion which I frequently made. How like a King 
I look'd. Firfl: of all, the whole Country was my 
own mere Property ; fo that I had an undoubted 
Right of Dominion. Secondly, My People were 
perfeftly iubjeded : I was abfolute Lord and Law- 
giver j they all ow'd their Lives tome, and were 
ready to lay down their Lives (if there had been 
Occafion of it) for me It was remarkable too, wc 
had but three Subjects, and they were of three 
different Religions. My Man Friday was a Protefl- 
ant, his Father was a Pagan and a Cannibal, and 
the Spaniard was a Papift : However, I allowed Li- 
berty of Confcience throughout my Dominions : 
But this is by the Way. 

As foon I had fecur'd my two weak refcued 
Prifoners, andgiven them Shelter, and a Place to 
reft them upon, I began to think of making fome 
Provifion from them : And the firft Thing I d'ldy I 
order'd Friday to take a yearling Goat, betwixt a 
Kid and a Goat, out of my particular Flock, to 
be kili'd, when I cut off the hinder Qiiarter, and 
chopping it into fmall Pieces, 1 (d.t Friday to work 
to boiling and dewing, and made them a very 
good Difli, I alTure you, of Flefh and Broth, ha- 
ving put fome Barley and Rice aifo into the 
Broth ; and as I cook'd it without Doors, (for 1 
made no Fire within my inner Wall) fo I carry 'd 
it all into the new Tent ; and having fat a Table 
there for them, I fat down and eat my own Din- 
ner a'.fo with them, and,as Vv'cllaslconld, cheat 'd 
them and encoiiragM tliem; i^W^^;/ being my Liter- 
perter, efpccially to his Father, and indeed to the 

Spa- 



[ 2.87 ] 

Spaniard too ; for the Spaniard fpoke the Language 
of the Sa-vages pretty well. 

After we had dined, or rather Tupped, I order 'd 
Friday to take one oF the Canoes, and go and 
fetch our Muskets and other Fire- Arms, which for 
Want of Time we had left upon the Place of Battle ;^ 
and the next Day I order'd him to go aix4. bujry, 
the dead Bodies of the Savages, which lay open to 
the SuU; and would prefently be offenfivej and I 
alfo order'd him to bury the horri^d Remains of 
their barbarous Feafl, which I knew were pretty 
much, and which I could not think of doing my 
felf; nay, I could not bear to fee them, if 1 went 
that Way : All which he pun(5lually performed, and 
defac'd the very Appearance of the Savages being 
there ; fo that when I went again, I could fcarce 
known where it was, otherwife than by the Corner 
of the Wood pointing to the Place. 

1 then began to enter into a little Converfation 
with my two new Subjeds j and iirfl, 1 fat Friday 
to enquire of his Father, what he thought of the. 
Efcape of the Savages in that Canoe5and whether we 
might exped a Return of them with a Power too 
great for us to refift. His firfi: Opinion was, that the 
Savages in the Boat never could live out the Storm 
which blew that Night they went ofi-^ but mufl of 
NecelHty be drown'd or driven South tothofe other 
Shores, where they were asfure to be devoured as 
they were to be drown'd if they were caft away ; 
but as to what they would do if they came fafe on 
Shore, he (\xid lie knew not ; but it was his Opini- 
on that they were fo dreadfully frighted with the 
Manner of their being attacked, the Noife and the 
Fire, that he belicv'd they 'vould tell their People 
they were all kiii'd by Thunder and Lightning, not 
by t'l e Hand of Man, and that the two which 
appcar'd, (t'/s:..) F/vW^ij' and me, weie two Jieavenly 

Spirits 



[288] 

Spirits or Furies, come do^vn to deftroy them and 
not Men with Weapons I'his he faid he knew, 
became he heard them all cry out in their Lan- 
guage to one another ; tor it wasimpoiTible to them 
to conceive that a Man could dart Fire, and fpeak 
Thunder, and kill at a diflance without lifting up 
the Hand, as was done now : And this old Savage 
was in the right ; for, as I underllood fince by 
others Hands, tlic S ivages never attempred to go o- 
ver to the Ifland afterwards ; they were fo terrified 
with the Accounts given by thofe four Men, (for it 
feems they did efcape the Sea) that they believ^ 
whoever went to that enchanted liland would be 
deftroy'd with Fire from the Gods. 

This however I knew not, and therefore was un- 
der continual Apprehenfiors for a good while, and 
kept always upon my Guard, we and all my Army ; 
for as w^e were now four of us, I would have ven- 
tured upon a hundred of them fairly in the open 
Field at any Time. ^ 

In a little Time, however, no more Canoes ap- 
pearing, the Fear oj their Coming wore off, and 
1 began to take my former Thoughts oi a Voyage 
to the Main into Confideration, being likewife af- 
fur'd by Friday's Father, that I might depend upon 
good Ufage from their Nation on his Account, if 
1 would go. 

But my Thoughts w^ere a little fufpended, when 
I had a ferious Difcourfe with the Spaniard, and 
when I underllood that there were fixteen more 
of his Countrymen and Portuguefej w^ho having 
been caft away, and made their Efcape to that 
Side liv'd there at Peace indeed with the Sava- 
ges, but were very fore 'put to it for Neceflaries, 
and indeed for Life : 1 ask'd him all the Par- 
ticulars of their Voyage, and Iband they were 
a Spanijl) Ship bound from the Rio de la Plata 

to 



[ 289 ] 

to the Havanuy being direded to leave their Load« 
fng there, which was chiefly Hides and Silver, and 
to bring back what European Goods they could 
meet with there ; that they had five PortuguefeSea,- 
men on Board, whom they took out of another 
Wreck ; that five of their own Men were drowned 
when the firft Ship was loft, and that thefe efcaped 
thro' infinite Dangers and Hazards, and arriv'd al- 
moft ftarv'd on the Cannibal Coaft, where they ex* 
ped:ed to have been devoured every Moment. 

He told me, they had fome Arms with them, 
but they were perfedly ufelefs^ for that they had 
neither Powder or Ball, the Wafliing of the Sea 
having fpoilM all their Powder, but a little, which 
they ufed at their firll Landing to provide them- 
felves fome Food. 

I ask'd him what he thought would become of 
them there, and if they had form'd no Defign of 
making any Efcape ? He faid, They had many 
Confultations about it, but that having neither 
Veflel, or Tools to build one, or Provifions of any 
Kind, their Counfels always ended m Tears and 
Defpair. 

lask'd him how he thought they would receive 
a Propofal from me, which might tend towards an 
Efcape : And whether, if they were all here, it 
might not be done ? I told him with Freedom, I 
fear'dmoftly their Treachery and ill Ufage of me, 
if I put my Life in their Hands ; for that Gratitude 
was no inherent Virtue m the Nature of Man ; nor 
did Men always fquare their Dealings by the Obli- 
gations they had received, fo much as they did 
by the Advantages they expected. I told him, it 
would be very hard, that Ifliould be the Inflrument 
of their Deliverance, and that they fhould after- 
wards make me their Prifoner in New-Spain, where 
an Enghfi Man was certain to be made a Sacri- 
^ fiee. 



[ 190 ] 

fice, what NecelTity, or what Accident foeves' 
brought him thither: And that I had rather be de- 
li ver'd up to the Savages, and be devoured alive, 
than fall into the mercilcfs Claws oF the Priefts, and 
be carry 'd into the Inquijition. I added, That o- 
therwife I was perfuaded, if they were all here, 
we might, wich fo many Hands build a Bark large 
enough to carry us all away, either to the Brafils 
Southward, or to the lilands or SpanijJ) Goaft 
Northward : But that if in Requital they fhould, 
when I had put Weapons into their Hands, carry 
me by Force among their own People, I might be 
ill ufed for my Kindncfs to them, and make my 
Cafe worfe than it was before. 

He anfwer'd with a great deal of Candour and 
Ingenuity, That their Condition was fo miferable, 
and they were fo fenfible of it, that he believed 
they would abhor the Thought of ufing any Man 
unkindly that fhould contribute to their Delive- 
rance •, and that, if I pleafed, he would go to them 
with the old Man, and difcourfe with them about 
it, and return again, and bring me their Anfwer : 
That he would make Conditions with them upon 
their folemn Oath, That they fhould be abfolute- 
ly under my Leading, as their Commander and 
Caprain ; and that they fhould fwear upon the ho- 
ly Sacraments and the Gofpel, to be tftie to me, 
and to go to fuch Chriilian Country as that I 
ihould agree to, and no other; and to be direded 
wholly and abfolutely by my Orders, till they 
were landed fafely in fuch Country as I intended ; 
and that he would bring a Contrad: from them un- 
der their Hands for that Purpofe. 

Then he told me he would Hrft fwear to me 
hinifclf. That he would never flir from me as long; 
as he liv'd, till I gave him Orders; and that he 
wouid take my Side to the iall Drop of his Blood, 

if 



[ ^91 ] 

if there fhould happen the kafl Breach of Faith a- 
inong his Countrymen. 

He told me, they were all of them very civil 
honefl: Men, and they were under the greateft Di- 
flrefs imaginable, having neither Weapons or 
Cloaths, nor any Food, but at the Mercy and Di- 
fcre:ion of the Savages ; out of all Hopes of ever 
returning to thir own Country ; and that he was 
fure, in would undertake their Relief, they would 
live and die by me. 

Upon thefe AfTurances, I refolv'd to venture to 
relieve them, if pofTible, and to fend the old Savage 
and this Spaniard over to them to treat : But when 
we had gotten all Things in a Readinefs to go, the 
Spaniard him.felf ftarted an Objedibn, which had 
fo much Prudence m it on one Hand, and fomuch 
Sincerity on the other Hand, that I could not but 
be very well fatisfy'd in it ; and, by his Advice, 
put off the Deliverance of his Comrades for at leafi 
half a Year. The Cafe was thus : 

He had been with us now about a Month ,• du- 
ring which Time, I had let him fee in what Man- 
ner I had provided, with the Affiflance of Provi- 
dence, for my Support,* and he faw evidently what 
Stock of Corn and Rice I had laid up; which, as 
it was more than fufficient for myfeif, fo it was 
not fufficient, at leaft without good Husbandry, 
for my Family, now it was encreas'd to Number 
four : But much Iq[s would it be fufficient, if 
his Countrymen, who were, as he fa:d, fourteen 
fUll alive, fhould come over. And lead of all 
Would it be fufficient to vidual our Veflel, if we 
Ciould build one, for a Voyage to any oi the Chri- 
flian Colonies o^ America. So he told me, he thought 
it would be more advifable, to let him and the 
two-other dig and cultivate feme more Land, as 
tnuch as I eould fpare Seed to fow; and that we 
• U a fhould 



[ i9i ] 

(hould wait another Harveft, that we might have 
a Supply ot Corn for his Countryn:ien when they 
fhould come ; for Want might be a Temptation to 
them to difagree, or not to think themfeh-es deli- 
vered, otherwife than out oFone Difficulty into a- 
nother. You know, fays he, the Children of If- 
raely though they rejoyc'd at firfl for their being 
deliver'd out of Egypy yet rebelled even againft 
God himfelf that deliver'd them, when they came 
to want Bread in the VVildernefs. 

His Caution was fo feafonable, and his Advice 
fo good, that T could not but be very well pleafed 
with his Propofal, as well as I was fatisFy'd with 
his Fidelity. So we fell to digging all four of us, 
as well as the wooden Tools we were furnifli'd 
with permitted ,* and in about a Month's Time, by 
the End of which it was Seed-time, we had got- 
ten as much Land cur'd and trimmM up, as we 
fowed 2 2 Bulhels of Barley on, and 16 Jarrs of 
Ricej which was, in fliort, all the Seed we had 
to fpare i nor indeed did we leave our felves Bar- 
ley fufficient for our own Food, for the fix Months 
that we had to exped our Crop, that \s to fay, 
reckoning from the Time we fet our Seed afide for 
fowing j for it is not to be fuppofed it is fix 
Months in the Ground in the Country. 

Having now Society enough, and our Number 
being fufficient to put us out of Fear of the Sa- 
vages, if they had come, unlefs their Number had 
been very great, we went freely all over the Ifland, 
where-ever we found Occafion i and as here we had 
our Efcape or Deliverance upon our Thoughts, \t 
was impoffible, at leaft for me^ to have the Means 
of it out of mine,- to this Purpofe, I mark'd out 
feveral Trees which I thought fit for our Work, 
and I fet Friday and his Father to cutting them 
down ; and then I caufcd the Spaniard, to whom 

I im- 



•1 imparted my Thoughts on that Aflrafr, to o- 
verfee and dired their Work. I fhew'd them 
with what indefatigable Pains I had hew'd a 
large Tree into fingle Planks, and I caufed them 
to do the like, 'till they had made about a Dozen 
large Planks of good Oak, near two Foot broad, 
thirty five Foot long, and from two Inches to four 
Inches thick : What prodigious Labour it took up, 
any one may imagine. 

At the fameTimelcontriv'd to increafemy lit- 
tle Flock of tame Goats as much as I could ,• and 
to this Purpofe, I made Friday and the Spaniard go 
out one Day, and myfelf with Friday the next 
Day, for we took our Turns ; and by this Means 
we got above 20 young Kids to breed up with the 
reft 3 for whenever we fhot the Dam, we faved 
the Kids, and added them to our Flock i But a- 
bove all, the Seafon for curing the Grapes coming 
on, I caufed fuch a prodigious Qiiantity to be 
hung up in the Sun, that I believe, had we been at 
Altcant,whGiQ the Raifins of the Sun are cur'd, we 
could have fiil'd lixty or eighty Barrels ; and thefe, 
with our Bread, was a great Part of our Food, 
and very good living to, I allure you ; for it is an 
exceeding nourifhing Food. 

It was now Harvefl, and our Crop in good 
Order 3 it was not the moft plentiful Increafe I had 
feen in the Idand, bur, however, it was enough to 
anfwer or.r End ; for from our 22 Buflicls of Bar- 
ley, we brought in and thrafhed out above 220 
Bufhcls, and the like in Proportion of the Rice, 
which was Store enough for our Food to the nejit 
Harveft, tho' all the 16 Spaniards had been on 
Shore with me ; or if we had been ready for a 
Voyage, it would have very plentifully have vi<5tu- 
all-doLir Ship, to have carry 'd us to any Part of the 
World, that is to fay, of America, 

U 3 When 



[ ^94 1 

When we had thus hous'd and fecurd our Ma";* 
gazine of Corn, we fell to work to make more 
Wicker Work, viz.. great Baskets in which we kept 
it ; and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous 
at this Part, and often blam'd me that I did not 
make fome Things for Defence, of this Kind of 
Work ; but I faw no Need of it. 

And now having a full Supply of Food for all 
the Guefts I expe6ted, I gave the Spaniard Leave 
to go over to the Main, to fee what he could do 
with thofe he had left behind him there.' I gave 
him a ftrid Charge in Writing, not to bring any 
Man with him, who would not firfl fwear m the 
Prefence of himfelf and of the old Savage, That 
he would no Way injure, fight with, or attack the 
Perfon he fhould find in the Ifland, who was fo 
kind to fend for them in order to their Delive- 
rance; but that they would fland by and defend 
him againfl all fr.ch Attem.prs, and where ever 
they went, would be entirely under and fubjeded 
to his Commands ,* and that this fhould be put in 
Writing, and fign'd with their Hands : How we 
were to have this done, when 1 knew they had 
neither Pen or Ink, that, indeed, was a Queftioa 
which we never ask'd. 

Under thefe Inilrudions, the Spaniard, and the 
old Savage (the Father of Friday) went away in one 
of the Canoes, which they might be faid to come 
in, or rather were brought in, when they came as 
Prifoners to be devoured by the Savages. 

I gave each of them a Musket with a Firelock 
on it, and about eight Charges of Powder and 
B:iil, charging them to be very good Husbands of 
both, and not to ufe either of them but upon ur- 
gent Occafion. 

This was a cheaful Work, being the firft Mea- 
furcs ufed by me in View pf my Deliverance for 

' now 



[^9S ] 

now 27 Years and fome Days. I gave them Pro* 
v/ions of Bread, and of dry Grapes, fufficient for 
themfelves for many Days, and fuiEcient for ail 
their Countrymen for about eight Days Time j and 
wifliing them a good Voyage, I fee them go, a- 
greeing with them about a Signal they fhould hang 
out at their Return, by which I fhould know them 
again, when they came back, at a Diftance, before 
they eame on Shore. 

They went away with a fair Gale on the Day 
that the Moon was at Full; by my Account in the 
Month oi OEtober i but as for an exad: Reckoning 
pf Days, after I had once loll it, I could never re- 
cover it again ,• nor had I kept even the Number 
of Years fo pundually, as to be fure that I was right, 
tho', as it prov'd,when I afterwards examined my Ac- 
count, 1 found I had kept a true Reckoning of Years. 
It was no lefs than eight Days I had waited for 
them, v/hen a flrange and unforefeen Accident in- 
terven'd, of which the like has not, perhaps, been 
heard of in Hidory. I was fall afleep in my Hutch 
one Morning, when my Man Friday came running 
in to me, and call'd aloud, Mailer, Mafter, they 
are come, they are come. 

I jump'd up, and, regardlefs of Danger, I went 
out as foon as I cquld get my CI oaths on, thro' 
my little Grove, which (by the Way) was by this 
Time grown to be ^ very thick Wood : I fay, re- 
gardlefs of Danger, I went v/ithout my Arms, 
which was not my Cuflpm to do ; but I was fur- 
priz'd, when turning my Eyes to the Sea, I pre- 
fently faw a Boat at about a League and a half's Di- 
flance, ftanding in for the Shore, with a Shoulder of 
Mutton Sail, as they call it, and the Wind blow- 
ij)g pretty fair to bring them in ; alfo I obferv'd 
prefcntiy, that they did not come from that Side 
which the Shore lay on, but from the Souther- 

U 4 moft 



[296] 

^loft End of the Wand : Upon this, I call'd Friday 
in, and bid him lie clofe, for thefe were not the 
People we look'dfor, and that we might not know 
yet whether they were Friends or Enemies. 

In the next Place, I went in to fetch my Per- 
fpedive Glafs, to fee what I could make of them ; 
and having taken the Ladder out, I climb'd up to 
the Top of the HilJ, as I ufed to do when I was 
apprehenfive of any thing, and to take my View 
the plainer, without being difcover'd. 

I had fcarce fet my Foot on the Hiij, v/hen my 
J^ye plainly difcover'd a Ship lying at an Anchor, 
at about two Leagues and a half's Diftance from 
me South'South-Eaft, but not above a League and 
an half from the Shore. By my Obfervation, it 
appearM plainly to be an Englijh Ship, and the 
Boat appeared to be an EngUjJo Long- Boat. 

I cannot exprefs the Conhilion I was in, tho' the 
Joy of feeing a Ship, and one who I had Reafon 
to believe, was mann'd by my own Countrymen, 
and confequently Friends, was fuch as I cannot 
defcribe; but yet I had fome fecret Doubts hung 
about me, I cannot tell from whence they came, 
bidding me keep upon my Guard. In the firft Place, 
it occur'd to me to confider what Bufinefs an En- 
gliJI:) Ship could have in that Part of the World,^ 
lince it was not the Way to or from any Part of 
the World where the Engli(Jo had any Traffick i and 
I knew there had been no Storms to drive them 
in there, as in Diftrefs ; and that if they were En- 
glijh really, it was moft probable that they were 
here upon no good Dclign ; and that I had better 
continue as 1 was, than fall into the Hands of 
Thieves and Murderers. 

Let noMan defpife the fecret Hints and Notices 
of Danger which fometimes are given him, 
when he may think there is no Polfibility of its 

being 



[ 2-97 1 

being real. That fuch Hints and Notices are given 
us, 1 believe few that have made any Obfervations 
of Things can deny ; that they are certain Dif- 
coveries of an invifible World, and a Converfe of 
Spirits, we cannot doubt ; and if the Tendency 
of them feems to be to warm us of Danger, why 
fliould we not fuppofe they are from fome friendly 
Agents whether fupreme, or inferior and fubordi- 
nate, is not the QLieftion ; and that they are given 
for our Good ? 

TheprefentQueftion abundantly confirm me in 
the Juftice of this Reafoning, for had I not been 
made cautious by this fecret Admonition, come it 
from whence it will, I had been undone inevitably, 
and in a far worfe Condition than before, as you 
will fee prefently. 

I had not kept myfelf long in this Poflure, but 
I faw the Boat draw near the Shore, as if they 
look'd for a Creek to thruft in at for the Conveni- 
ence of Landing : However, as they did not come 
quite far enough, they did not fee the little Inlet 
where I formerly landed my Rafts, but ran their 
Boat on Shore upon the Beach, at about half a. 
Mile from me, which was very happy for me j for 
otherwife, they would have landed juft (as I may 
fay) at my Door, and would foon have beaten -me 
out of my Caftle, and perhaps have plundered me 
ofall I had. 

When they were on Shore, I was fully fatisfy'd 
that they were Englijh Men, at leaft. raoft of them 
one or two I thought were Dutch ; but it did not 
prove fo : There were in all eleven Men, whereof 
three of them I found were unarm'd, and, as I 
thought, bound i and when the firft four or five of 
them were jump'd on Shore, they took thofe three 
put of the Boat as Prifoners : One of the three I 
could perceive ufing the moft palTionate Geftures f 

Entreaty, 



\ 



[ 29S 1 

Intreaty, AfHidion and Defpafr, even to a kind of 
Extravagance ; the other two, I could perceive, 
lifted up their Hands fometimes, and appeared con- 
cern 'd indeed, but not to fuch a Degree as the 
£rft. 

I was perfedly confounded at the Sight, and 
knew not what the Meaning of it fhould be. Fri- 
day call'd out to me in Engli(Jo^ as well as he could, 

Mafler ! Tou fee Englilh Alans eat frifoner as well 
as Savage Mam. Why, fays I, Friday^ do you 
think they are a going to eat them then? Tes^ fays 
Friday, T'hey will eat them : No, no, fays I, Fnday^ 

1 am afraid they will murder them, indeed, but 
you may befurethey will not eat them. 

All this while 1 had no Thought of what the 
Matter really was ; but flood trembling with the 
Horror of the Sight, expeding every Moment when 
the three Prifoners flo-ild be killM ; nay, oncelfaw 
one of the ViPians lift up his Arm with a great Cut- 
iafha (as the Seamen call it) or Sword, to ftrikeone 
oi the poor Men ; and I expected to fee him fa'.l 
every Moment, at which all the Blood in my Body 
ieem*d to run chill in ray Veins. 

I wifb'd heartily now for my Spaniard, and the 
Savage that was gone with him y or that I had a- 
ny Way to have come undifcover'd within Shot of 
them, that I might have refcu'd the three Men ; 
tor 1 faw no Fire- Arms they had among theni j but 
it fell out to my Mind another Way. 

After I had obferv'd the outragious Ufageof the 
three Men by by the infolent Seamen, I obferv'd the 
Fellows run fcattering about the Land, as if they 
ivanted to fee the Country : I obferv'd that the 
three other Men had Liberty to go alfo where they 
pleas'd ; but they fat down all three upon the 
Ground very penfive^ and lopk'd like Men in 

Pefpair. . 

This 



[^99] 

This put me in Mind of die firft Time when I 
<:ame on Shore, and began to look about me ; how 
I gave myfelf over for loft, how wildly I look'd 
round me, what dreadful Apprehenfions I had, and 
how I lodg'd in the Tree all Night for fear of be- 
ing devoured by wild Beafts. 

As I knew nothing that Night of the Supply I 
was to receive by the providential Driving ot:' the 
Ship nearer the Land, by the Storms and Tide, by 
which I have fince been folong nourifti'd and fup- 
ported ; fo thefe three poor deiolate Men knew no- 
thing how certain ot Deliverance, and Supply they 
were, how near it was to them, and how effedu- 
aily and ready they were in a Condition of Safety, 
at the fame Time they thought themfelves loft, and 
their Cafe defperate. 

So little do we fee before us in the World, and 
fomuch Reafon have we to depend chearfully upon 
the great Maker of the World, that he does not 
leave his Creatures foabfolutely deftitute, but that 
in the worft Circumftances they have always fome- 
thing to be thankful for, and fometimes are nearer 
their Deliverance than they imagine ; nay, are even 
brought to their Deliverance by the Means by 
v/hich they feem to be brought to their Deftru- 
ftion. 

It was juft at the Top of High- Water when thefe 
people came on Shore, and while partly they ftood 
parly ing with the Prifoners they brought, and part- 
ly while they rambled about to fee what kind of a 
Place they were in, they had carelefly ftaid till they 
Tide was fpent, and the Water-was ebb'd confide- 
rably away, leaving their Boat a-ground. 

They had left two Men in the Boat, who as I 
found afterwards, haying drank a little too much 
Brandy, fell a-fleep ; however, one of them waking 
fconer than the other, and finding the Boat too faft 

a-ground 



[ 300 ] 

a-ground for him to ilir it, hollowM for the reft who 
were ftraggling about, upon which they all foon 
came to the Boat i but it was paft all their Scrength 
to launch her, the Boat beiiag very heavy, and the 
Shore on that Side being a foft ouzy Sand, almolt 
like a Quick-Sand. 

In this Condition, like true Seamen, who are, 
perhaps the leaft of all Mankind given to Fore- 
thought, they gave it over, and away they ftroll'd 
about the Country again j and I heard one oF them 
fay aloud to another, calling them off from the 
Boat, Why y let her alone y Jack, can t ye, fje -cjiU float 
-ve>.t Tide ; by which I was fully confirm'd in the 
main Enquiry, of what Countrymen they were. 

All this while I kept myfelf very clofe, not once 
daring to ftir out of my Caftle, any farther than to 
my Place of Obfervation near the Top of the Hill ,* 
and very glad I was, to think how well it was for^ 
tify'd : I knew it was no kfs than ten Hours before 
the Boat could be on float again, and by that 
Time it would be dark, and I might be at more 
Libery to fee their Motions, and to hear their Dif- 
courfe, if they had any. 

In the mean time, 1 fitted myfelf up for a Bat- 
tel, as before, tho' with more Caution, knowing 
I had to do with another kind of Enemy than I 
had at firft. I order'd Friday alfo, who 1 had made 
an excellent Markfman with his Gun, to load him- 
felf with Arms : I took myfelf two Fowling- Pieces, 
and I gave him three Muskets ; my Figure indeed 
was very fierce ; and I had my formidable Goat- 
Skin Cap on, with the great Cap I have mention'd, 
a naked Sword by my Side, two Piflols in my Belt, 
and a Gun upon each Shoulder- 

It was my Defign, as I faid above, not to have 
made any Attempt till it was dark : But about 
two a Clock, being the Heat of the Day, I found 

that 



[^01] 

that in fhort they were all gone ftraggling into the 
Vv oods, and, as I thought, were laid down to fleep. 
The three poor diftrefled Men, too anxious foe 
their Condition to get any Sleep, were, however, 
fet down under the Shelter of a great Tree, at 2r 
bout a quarter of a Mile from me, and, as I thought, 
out of Sight of any of the reft. 

Upon this I refolv'd to difcover myfelf to them, 
and learn fomething of their Condition ; Immedi- 
ately I march'd in the Figure, as above, my Man 
Friday at a good Diftance behind me, as formi- 
dable for his Arms as I, but not making quite fo 
ftaring a SfeBre-likeFiguvQ as I did. 

I came as near them undifcover'd as I could, and 
then before any of them faw me, I call'd aloud to 
them in Spanifh^ What are ye Gentlemen ? 

They Itarted up at the Noife, but were ten 
times more confounded when they faw me, and 
the uncouth Figure that I made. They made no 
Anfwer at all ; but I thought I perceived them juft 
going to fly from me, when I fpoke to them in 
Englijh : Gentlemen, faid I, do not be furpriz'd at 
me ; perhaps you may have a Friend near you 
when you did not exped it. He muft be fent di- 
redly from Heaven then, faid one of them very 
granjely to me, and pulling off his Hat at the fame I'ime 
to me, for our Condition is paft the Help of Man. 
All Help is from Heaven, Sir, faid 1 But can 
you put a Stranger in the Way how to help you* 
for you feem to me to be in fome great Diftrefs ? 
I faw you when you landed, and when you feem'd 
to make Application to the Brutes that came with 
you, I faw one of them lift up his Sword to kill 
you. 

The poor Man, with Tears running down his 
Face, and trembling, looking like one aftonifh'd, 
returned. Am I talking to God ^ or Man! Is it a real 

Man 



■ [ 30i ] 

Man or an Augel ! Be in no fear about that, Siii 
faid /, if God had fent an Angel to relieve yon, he 
would have come better eloath'd, and arm'd after 
another Manr.er than you fee me in ; pray lay afide 
your Fears, I am a Man, an Englijh Man, and dif- 
pos'd to aflift you, you fee ; 1 have one Servant 
only j we have Arms and Ammunition ; tell us 

freely. Can we ferve you ? What is your 

Cafe > 

Our Cafe, faid he. Sir, is too long to tell you, 
while our Murderers are fo near ,• but, in fhorr, 
Sir, I was Commander of that Ship, my Men 
have mutiny'd againfl me^ they have been hard- 
ly prevail'd on not to murder me, and at lall: 
havefet me on Shore in this defolate Place, with 
thefe two Men with me, one my Mate, the other 
a Paflenger, where we expeded to perifh, believ- 
ing the Place to be uninhabited, and know not yet 
what to think of it. 

Where are thofe Brutes, your Enemies, faid I, 
do you know where they are gone? "There they lyi 
Sir, faid he, pointing to a Thicket of Trees, my 
Heart trembles for fear they have feen usy and heard 
you Speak ,• if they have^ they veil! certainly murder us 
all. 

Have they any Fire- Arms, faid /, Hcanfwer'd, 
they had only two Pieces, and one which they 
left in the Boati Well then, faid I, leave the reit 
to nie > I fee they are all afleep, it is an eafy 
thing to kill them all ; but fhall we rather take 
them Prifoners ? He told me, there were two def- 
perate Villains among them that it was fcarce 
fafe to fhcw any Mercy to ; but if they were fe- 
cur'd,, he bcliev'd all the reft would return to 
their Duty. I ask*d hun, which they were ? He 
told me, he could not at that Diftance defcribe 
them ; but he would obey my Orders in any thing 

I would 



C 303 ] 

I would dired. Well, fays I, let us retreat out of 
their View or Hearing;, leaii: they awake, and we 
will refolve farther i io they willingly went back 
with me, till the Woods cover'd us rrom them. 

Look you, Sir, faid I, it I venture upon your 
Deliverance, are you wilJing to make two Condi- 
tions with me ; he anticipated my Piopofals, by 
telling me, that both he and the Ship, it recover'd, 
fhouid be wholly di reded and commanded by me 
in every things and if the Ship was not recover*d 
he would live and die with me in what Part of the 
World foever I would fend him i and the two other 
Men faid the fame. 

Welly fays I, my Conditions are hut two. i. That 
while you flay on this Iliand with me, you will not 
pretend to any Authority here, and if I put Arms 
into your Hands, you will upon all Occafions give 
them up to me, and do no Prejudice to me or mine, 
upon this Ifland, and m the mean time be govern'd, 
by my Orders. 

2. That if the Ship is^ or may be recover'd, 
you will carry me and my Man to England Paf- 
fage-free. 

He gave me ail the AlTurances that the Invention 
and Faithof Man could devife, that he would com- 
ply with thefe moft reafonable Demands, and be- 
(ides would owe his Life to me, and acknowledge 
it upon all Occfiaons as long as he livM. 

Well then, Jaid I, here are three Muskets for 
you, with Powder and Ball j tell me next what you 
think is proper to be done. He Ihew^'d all the 
Teftimony of his Gartitude that he was able ; 
but offer d to be wholly guided by me. I told him, 
I thought it was hard venturing any Thing ; but 
the beft Method I could think of was to fire upon 
them at once, as they lay i and if any was not 
kiil'd at the iirft Volley, and offered to fubmit, 

we. 



C ^04 ] 

we might fave them, and fo put it wholly upon 
God's Providence to dired: the Shot. 

He faid very modeftly, That he was loath to 
kill them, if he could help it ; but that thofe two 
were incorrigible Villains, and had been the Au- 
thors of all the Mutiny in the Ship, and if they 
efcaped, we fhould be undone ftill ; for they would 
go on Board, and bring the whole Ship's Com- 
pany, and deflroy us all. IVelJ then, fays I, Ne- 
cejjtty legitimates my Advice ; jor it is the cnly 
JVay to fave our Lives. However, feeing him ftill 
cautious of ftiedding Blood, I told him they fhould 
go themfelves, aud manage as they found con- 
venient. 

In the Middle of this Difcourfe, we heard feme 
of them awake, and foon after we faw two of 
them on their Feet. I ask'd him, if either of 
them were the Men who he had faid were the 
Heads of the Mutiny? He faid. No : Well then, 
faid I, you may let them efcape, and Providence 
feems to have wakenM them on Purpofe to fave 
themfelves. Now, fays I, if the reft efcape you, 
it is youi Fault, 

Animated with this, he took the Musket I had 
given him in his Hand, and a Piftol in his Belt^, 
and his two Comrades with him, with each Man 
a Piece in his Hand, The two Men who were 
with him going firft, made feme Noife, at which 
one of the Seamen, who was awake, turn'd a- 
bout, and feeing them coming, cryM out to the 
reft ; but it was too late then ; for the Moment 
he cry'd out, they fir'd ; I mean the two Mn, the 
the Captain wifely refervinghis own Piece : They 
had fo well aim'd their Shot at the Men they knew^ 
that one of them was kill'd on the Spot, and the 
other very much wounded ; but not being dead, he 
flatted up upon his Feet, and call'd eagerly for 

Help. 



[ 305 ] 



help to the other i but the Captain ftepping to him'^ 
told him, ^twas to late to cry for help, he (hould 
call upon God to forgive his Villany, and with that 
Word knock'd him down with the Stock of hisJ 
Musket, fo that he never Spoke more : There were 
three more in the Company, and one of them wa^ 
alfo {lightly wounded : By this Time I was come, 
and when they faw their Danger, and that it was 
in vain to refill:, they begg'd for Mercy : The Cap- 
tain told them he would fpare their Lives, i( they 
would give him any AlTurance of their Abhorence 
of the Treachery they had been guilty of,and would 
fvvear to be faithful to him in recovering the Ship, 
ahd afterwards in carrying her back to Jamaica, 
from whence they came : They gave him all the 
Proteflations of their Sincerity that could be defirM, 
and he was willing to believe them, and fpare their 
Lives, which I was not againft j only I oblig'd himi 
to keep them bound Hand and Foot while they 
were upon the Ifland 

While this was doingj I fcnt Friday with the 
Captain's Mate to the Boat, with Orders to fecure 
her, and bring away the Oars, and Sail, which 
j:hey did; and by and by, three draggling Men that 
wxre (happily for them) parted from the reft, came 
back upon hearing the Guns iir^d, and feeing their 
Captain, who before was their Prifoner, now their 
Conqueror, they (ubmitted to be bound alfo i and 
lo our Vidory was compleat. 

It now remain^, that the Captain and I fhould 
enquire into one another^'s Circumflances : I began 
iirft, and told him my whole Hiilory, which he 
heard wichan Attention even to Amazement,* and 
particularly, at tlie wonderful Manner of my being 
furnifhM with Prcvilions and Ammunition j and 
indeed, as my Story is a whole Colle(5cion of Won- 
ders:> it affe(^ed him deeply ; but when he reflea:ed 

X from 



[ S06 ] 

ftoiii thence upon himfelf, and how I feem'd to 
have been preferv'd there, on purpofe to fave his 
Life, the Tears ran down his Face, and he could 
notfpeak a Word more. 

After this Communication was at an End, I car- 
ry 'd him and his two Men into my Apartment, lead- 
ing them in, JLifl where I came out, viz.. at the 
Top of the Houfe, where I refrefh'd them with 
fuch Provifions as I had, and (liow'd them all the 
Contrivances I had made, during my long, long, 
inhabiting that Place. 

All I fhew'd them, all I faid to them, was per- 
fectly amazing ; but above all, the Captain admir'd 
my Fortification, and howperfedly I had conceai'd 
my Retreat with a Grove of Trees, which having 
been now planted near twenty Years, and the Trees 
growing much fafler than in England^ was become 
a little Wood, and fo thick, that it was unpallable 
in any Part of it, but at that one Side, where I 
had referv'd my little winding Paifage into it : I 
told him, this was my Caftle and my Relidence ; 
but that I had a Seat in the Country, as moft Prin- 
ces have, whither 1 could retreat upon Occafion, 
and I would fliew him that too another Time ; 
but at prefent, our Bulinefs was to confider how 
to recover the Ship : He agreed with m.e as to that ; 
but told mcj he was perfedly a Lofs what Mea- 
lures to take j for that there were flill'lix and twenty 
Hands on board, who having entred into a curfed 
Confpiracy, by which they had ail forfeited their 
Lives to the Law, would be harden'd in it now by 
Defperation ; and would carry it on, knowmgthat 
if they were reduc'd, they fliould be brought to the 
Gallows, as foon as they came to Erigland^ or to 
any of x\\q Engljjh Colonies; and that therefore 
there would be no attacking them with fo fmall a 
"Number as we were. 

I mus'd 



[ 307 ] 

I raus'd for feme Time upon what he had faid^ 
and found it was a very rational Conclufion ; and 
that therefore fomething was to be refolvM on ve- 
ry fpeedily, as well to draw the Men on board in- 
to fome Snare for their Surprize, as to prevent their 
Landing upon us, and deflroying us ,* upon this it 
prefently occurred to me, that in a little while the 
Ship's Crew wondring what was become of their 
Comrades, and of the Boat, would certainly come 
on Shore in their other Boat, to fee for them, and 
that then perhaps they might come arm^d, and be 
too ftrong for us ; this he allow'd was rational. 

Upon this, I told him the firfl thing we had to 
do, was to ftave the Boat, which lay upon the 
Beach, fo that they might not carry her off,- and 
taking every Thing out of her, leav^e her fo far ufelefs 
as not to be fit to fwim ; accordingly we went on 
board, took the Arms which were left on boards 
out of her, and whatever elfe we .found there^ 
which was a Bottle of Brandy, and another of 
Rum, a few Bisket Cakes, a Horn of Powder, and 
a great Lump of Sugar, in a Piece of Canvas ; the 
Sugar was five or fix Pounds; all which was ve- 
ry welcome to me, efpecially the Brandy and 
Sugar, of which I had had none left for many 
Years. 

When we had carry 'd all thefe Things on Shore 
(the Oars, Maft, Sail, and Rudder of the Boat, 
were carry 'd away before, as above) we knocked a 
great Hole in her Bottom, that if they had come 
ftrong enough to mafter us, yec they could not car- 
ry off the Boar. 

Indeed, it was not much in my Thoughts, that 
we could be able to recover the Ship ; but my View 
was that if they went away without the Boat, I 
did not much queftion to make her fit again, to carry 
as away to the Leevcavd lilands, and call upon our 

X 2 Friends 



[ 3o8 ] 

Friends, the Spaniards, in my way, fori had tlieni 
Hill in my Thoughts. 

While we were thus preparing our Defigns, and 
had firft, by main Strength, heav'd the Boat up up- 
on the Beach, fo high that the Tide would not 
fleet her of at High- Water-Mark j and befides, 
had broke a hole in her Bottom, too big to be 
quickly ftoppM, and were fat down muling what 
we fhould do ; we heard the Ship fire a Gun, and 
faw her make a Waft with her Antient, as a Signal 
for the Boat to come on Board ; but no Boat flir'd ; 
and they fir'd feveral times, making other Signals 
for the Boat. 

At laft, when all their Signals and Firings prov'd 
fruitlefs, and they found the Boat did not flir, we 
faw them by the help of my Glafl'cs, hoift another 
Boat out, and row towards the Shore ,• and we 
found as they approached, that there was no lefs 
than ten Men in her, and that they had Fire- Arms 
with them. 

As the Ship la;^ almofl two Leagues from the 
Shore, we had a full view of them as they came, 
and a plain fight of the Men, even of their Faces, 
becaufe the Tide having fet them a little to the Eaji 
of the other Boat, they row'd up under Shore, to 
come to the fame Place, where the other had land- 
ed, and where the Boat lay. 

By this means, I fay, we had a full view of them, 
and the Captain knew the Perfons and Charaders 
of all the Men in the Boat, of whom he faid, that 
there were three very honeft Fellows, who he was 
fare were led into this Confpiracy by the refl, being 
over-power'd and frighted. 

But that as for the^Boatfwain, who it feems was 
the chief Officer among them, and all the reft, they 
wereas outragiousas any of the Ship'^s Crew, and 
were no doubt madedeipeiate in their newEnter- 

prize^ 



[ 309 J 

prize, and terribly apprehenfive he was, that they 
would be too powerful for ns. 

I fmil'd at him, and told him, that Men in our 
Circumftances were paft the Operation of Fear : 
That feeing almoft every Condition that could be 
was better than that which we were fuppos'd to 
be in, we ought to expert that the Confequence, 
whether Death or Life, would be fure to be a De- 
liverance ; I ask'd him. What he thought of the 
Circumftances of my Life ? And, whether a Deli- 
verance were not worth venturing for ? And where. 
Sir, faid I, is your Belief of my being preferv'd here 
on Pnrpofe to fave your Life, which elevated you 
a little while ago ? For my Part, faid I, there feems 
to be but one Thing amifs in all the Profped of 
it; What's that > Says he; why, faid I, 'Tis, that 
as you fay, there are three or four honeft Fellows 
among them, which fhould be fpar'd ; had they 
been all of the wicked Part of the Crew, I fhould 
have thought God's Providence had fingled them 
out to deliver them into your Hands ; for depend 
upon it, every Man of them that comes a*(hore are 
our own, and fhall die, or live, as they behave to us. 

As I fpoke this with a raised Voice and chearful 
Countenance, I found it greatly encouraged him ,' 
fo we fet vigoroufly to our Bufinefs : We had up- 
on the firft Appearance of the Boat's coming from 
theiShip, conlider'dof feparating our Prifoners, and 
had indeed fecur'd them eftedually. 

Two of them, of whom the Captain was lefs af- 
fur'd than ordinary, I fent with Friday^, and one of 
the three (delivered Men) to my Cave, where they 
were remote enough, and out of Danger of being 
heard or d:fcover'd, or of finding their U'ay out of 
the Woods, if they could havedeiiver'd tliemfelves : 
Here they left them bound, but gave them Provifi- 
ons, and prom's'd them, if they continued there qui- 

X 3 etly. 



[ 310 ] 

ctly, to give them their Liberty in a Day or two ; 
but that if they attempted their Efcape, they Qiouid 
be put to Death without Mercy : They prorais'd 
faithfuliy to bear their Confinement with Patience, 
and were very thankful that they had fuch good 
Ulage, as to have Provifions, and a Light left thern ,* 
Son Friday ga.vc them Candles (fuch as we made our 
felves) for their Comfort ; and they did not know 
but that he flood Sentinel over them at the En- 
trance. 

The other Prifoners had better Ufage ; two of 
them were kept pinion'd indeed, becaufe the Cap- 
tain was not free to trufl: them ; but the other two 
were taken into my Service upon their Captain's Re- 
commendation, and upon their folemnly engaging 
to live and die with us ; Co with them and the three 
honeft Men, we were feven Men, well arm'd ; and 
I made no doubt we fhould be able to deal well e- 
nough with the Ten that were a coming, confi- 
dering that the Captain had faid, there were three 
or four honeft Men among them alfo. 

As foon as they got to the Place where their o- 
ther Boat lay, they run their Boat into the Beach, 
and came all on Shore, hailing the Boat up after 
them, which I was glad to fee ; for 1 was afraid 
they would rather have left the Boat at an Anchor, 
lome Diftance from the Shore, with fome Hands 
in her, to guard her i and fo we fl^ould not be able 
tofeize the Boat. 

Being on Shore, the firif thing they did, they 
ran all to their other Boat, and it was eafy to fee 
that they were under a great Surprize, to find her 
flripp'd us above, of all that was in her, and a great 
Hole in her Bottom. 

After they had mus'd a w^hile upon this, they 
fet up two or three great Shouts, hollowing with 
all their Might, to try if they could make their 

Com- 



: ^11 ] 

Companions hear; but all was to no Purpofe : Then 
they came all clofe in a Ring, and fir'd a Volley of 
their fmall Arms, which indeed we heard, and the 
Echoes made the Woods ring; but it was all one, 
thofein the Cave we were fure could not hear, and 
thofe in our keeping, though they heard it well 
enough, yet durfl give no Anfwer to them. 

They w^ere (o aftonifh'd at the Surprize of this, 
that as they told us afterwards, they refolv'd to go 
all on board again to their Ship, and let them know 
there, that the Men were all murder'd, and the 
Long-Boat ftav'dj accordingly, they immediat^y 
launched their Boat again, and got all of them on 
board. 

The Captain was terribly amaz'd, and even con- 
founded at this, believing they would go on board 
the Ship again, and let Sail, giving their Comrades 
for loft, and fo he fliould M\ lofe the Ship, which 
he was in hopes we fhould have recover 'd ; but he 
was quickly as much frighted the other way. 

They had not been long put off with the Boat, 
but we perceivM them all coming on Shore again ; 
but with this new Meafure in their Condud, w^hich 
it feems they confulted together upon, 'viz. To 
leave three Men in the Boat, and the reft to go on 
Shore, and go up mto the Country to look for their 
Fehows. 

This was a great Difappointment to us ; for now 
we were at a Lofs what to do ; for our feizing 
thofe feven Men on Shore would be no Advantage 
to us, it we let the Boat efcape ; becaufe they 
would then row away to the Ship, and then the 
reft of them would be fure to weigh and fet Sail, 
and fo our recovering the Ship would be loft. 

However, we had no Remedy, but to wait and 
fee what the Iftue of Things might prcfent; the 
feven Men came on Shore, and the three who re- 

>I 4^ main'd 



[ai^] 



main'd in the Boat, put her off to a good Diflance 
from the Shore, and came to an Anchor to wait for 
them j (o that it was impofTible for us to come at 
them in the Boat. 

Tnofe that came on Shore, kept clofe together, 
marching towards the Topof theh'ttleHill, under 
which my Habitation lay ; and we could fee them 
plainly, though they could not perceive us : We 
could have been very glad they would have come 
nearer to us, fo that we might have fir'd at them, 
or that they would have gone farther off, that wc 
might have come Abroad. 

Bat when they were come to the Brow of the 
Hill, where they could fee a great Way into the 
Valleys and Woods, which lay towards the North- 
Eafi Part, and where the Ifland lay loweft, they 
fhouted, and hollow'd till they were weary ; and 
not caring, it feems, to venture far from the Shore, 
nor far from one another, they fat down together 
under a Tree, to confider of it s Had they thought 
fit to have gone to deep there, as the other Party 
of them had done, they had done the Jobb for us ; 
but they were too full cf Apprehenfions of Danger, 
to venture to go to fieep, tho' they could not tell 
what the Danger was they had to fear neither. 

The Captain made a very juft Propofal to me, 
upon tnis Coufultation of theirs, viz.. That per-- 
haps they would all fire a Volley again, to endea- 
vour to make their Fellows hear, and that we 
fhould all fally upon them, juil: at the Jundure 
when their Pieces were all difcharg^d, and they 
would certainly yield, and we fhould have them 
without Blood-fhed : I lik'd the Propofal, provi- 
ded it was done while we were near enough to 
come up to them, before they could load their Pie- 
ces again. 

Bui 



C 31? ] 

But this Event did not happen, and we lay flill 
a long Time, very irrefolute vi^hat Courfe to take; 
ac length I told them, there would be nothing to 
be done in my Opinion till Night, and then if they 
did not return to the Boat, perhaps we might find 
a way to get between them and the Shore, and fo 
might ufe Tome Stratagem with them in the Boat 
to get them on Shore. 

We waited a great while, though very impatient 
for their removing ; and were very uneafy, when, 
after long Confultations, we faw them flart all up, 
and march down toward the Sea : It feems they had 
fuch dreadful Apprehenfions upon them of the 
Danger of the Place, that they refolvM to go on 
board the Ship again, give their Companions over 
for loft, and fo go on with their intended Voyage 
with the Ship. 

As foon as I perceiv'd them go towards the Shore, 
I imagin d it to be as really it was. That they had 
given over their Search, and were for going back 
again ,• and the Captain, as foon as I told him my 
Thoughts, was ready to fink at the Apprehenfions 
of it ; but I prefently thought of a Stratagem to 
fetch them back again, and which anfwer'd my 
End to a Tittle. 

I order'd Friday^ and the Captain's Mate, to go 
over the little Creek Weflward, towards the Place 
where the Savages came on Shore, when Friday was 
refcu'd ; and as foon as they came to a little rifing 
Ground, at about half a Mile Diftance, I bad them 
hollow, as loud as they could, and wait till they 
found the Seamen heard them; that as foon as ever 
they heard the Seamen anfwer them, they fiiould 
return it again, and then keeping out of Sight, take 
a round, always anfwering when the other holJow'd, 
to draw them as far into the Ifland, and among the 

Wood§5 



[ 314 ] 

Woods, as poHTible, and then wheel about again to 
me by fuch Ways as I direded them. 

They were jufl going into the Boat, when Fr/- 
day and the Mate hoilow'd, and they prefently heard 
them, and anfwering, run along the Shore Weft- 
ward, towards the Voice they heard, when they 
were prefently ftopp'd by the Creek, where the 
Water being up, they could not get over, and 
caU'd for the Boat to come up, and fet them over, 
as indeed I expe<Sed. 

When they had fet themfelves over, I obferv'd, 
that the Boat being gone up a good Way into the 
Creek, and as it were m a Harbour within the 
Land, they took one of the three Men out of her 
to go along with them, and left only two in the 
Boat, having faftned her to the Stump of a little 
Tree on the Shore. 

This was what I wifn'd for ; and immediately 
leaving iR-/W/2)' and the Captain's Mate to their Bu- 
finefs, I took the reft with me, and crofting the 
Creek out of their Sight, we furpriz'd the two 
Men before they were aware ^ one of them lying on 
Shore, and the other being in the Boat •, the Fellow, 
on Shore was between fleepiiig and waking, and go- 
ing to ftart up, the Captain who was foremoft, ran in 
upon him,andknock'd him down, and then cail'douc 
to him in the Boat to yield, or he was a dead Man. 

There needed very few Arguments to perfuade 
a fingle Man to yield, when he faw five Men upon 
him, and his Comrade knock'd down ; belides, this 
wasitfeems one ot the three who were not io hear- 
ty in the Mutiny as the reft of the Crew, and there- 
fore was eafily perfuaded, not only to yield, but 
afterwards to join very ftncerely with us. 

In the mean time, Friday and the Captain's Mate 
fo well manag'd their Bulinefs v/ith the reft, that 
they drew them by hollowing and anfwering, from 

one 



one Hill to another ; and from one Wood to ano-- 
ther, till they not only heartily tir'd them, but left 
them, where they were very fure they could not 
reach back to the Boat, before it was dark; and in- 
deed they were heartily tir'd themfelves alfo by the 
Time they came back to us. 

We had nothing now to do, but to watch for 
them in the dark, and to fall upon them, fo as to 
make fure work with them. 

It was feveral Hours after Friday came back to 
me, before they came back to their Boat ; and we 
could hear the foremofl of them long before they 
came quite up, calling to thofe behind to come 
along, and could alfo hear them anfwer and com.- 
plain how lame and tir'd they were, and not able 
to come any fafter, which was very welcome News 
to us. 

At length they came up to the Boat ; but \ls 
impoffible to exprefs their Confufion, when they 
found the Boat fafl a-ground in the Creek, the 
Tide ebb'd out, and their two Men gone: We 
could hear them call to one another in a moft la- 
mentable Manner, telling one another they were 
gotten into an inchanted Ifland ,* that either there 
were Inhabitants in it, and they Ihould all be mur- 
der'd, or elfe there were Devils and Spirits in it, 
and they fliould all be carry 'd away, and devoured. 

They hollo w'd again, and caird their two Com- 
rades by their Names a great many times, but 
no Anfwer. After fome time, we could fee 
them, by the little Light there was, run about 
wringing their Hands like Men in Defpair ; and 
that fometimes tiiey would go and fet down in the 
Boat to reft themfelves, then come a-fhore again, 
and walk about again, and fo the fame thing over 



agam. 



My 



My Men would fain have me give them Leave 
to fall upon them at once in the Dark ; but I was 
willing to take them at feme Advantage, fo to 
fpare them, and kill as few of them as I could ; 
and efpecially I was unwilling to hazard the killing 
any of our own Men, knowing the other were ve- 
ry well arm'd. I refolv'd to wait to fee if they 
did not feparate ; and therefore to make fure of 
them, I drew my Ambufcade nearer, and orcer'd 
Friday and the Captain to creep upon their Hands 
and Feet as clofe to the Ground as they could, 
that they might not be difcover'd, and get as near 
them as they could pofiibly, before they ofFerd to 
fire. 

They had not been long in that Pofturc, but that 
the Boatfwain, who was the principal Ringleader 
of the Mutiny, and had now (hewn himfelf the 
moft dejeded and difpirited of all the reft, came 
walking towards them with two more of their 
Crew ; the Captain was fo eager, as having this 
principal Rogue fo much in his Power, that he 
could hardly have Patience to let him come fo 
near, as to be fure of him •, for they only heard 
his Tongue before : But when they came nearer, 
the Captain and Friday flatting up on their Feet, 
]et fly at them. 

The Boatfwain was kilfd upon the Spot, the 
next Man was fhot into the Body, and fell juft by 
him, tho' he did not dii: till an Hour or two after j 
aud the third run for it. 

At the Noife of the Fire, I immediately ad- 
vanced with my whole Army, which was now 8 
Men, "uiz.. My felf GeneralijVmOy Friday my Lieu- 
tenant-General, the Captain and his two Men, and 
the three Prifoners of War, who we had truded 
with Arms. 

We 



[ ?i7 ] 

We came upon them indeed in the Dark, fo that 
they could not fee our Number j and I made the 
Man we had left in the Boat, who was now one 
of us, call to them by Name, to try if I could 
bring them to a Parley, and fo might perhaps re- 
duce them to Terms , which fell out juft as we de- 
fir'd : For indeed it was eafy to think, as their 
Condition then was, they would be very willing 
to capitulate ; fo he calls out as loud as he could, 
to one of them, 7o?n Smithy Tom Smith ^ Tom Smith 
anfwer'd immediately, Who's that, Robinfon ? For 
it feems he knew his Voice : T'other anfwer^d) Ay, 
ay; for God's Sake, Tom Smith, throzv dozvn your 
ArmSy and yieldy or, you are aU dead Men this Mo- 
ment. 

Who 7niifl 'ive yield to ? Where are they? (fays S?nith 
again ;_) Here they are, fays he, here's our Captain, 
and hfcy Men with him, havx been hunting you 
this two Hoursi theBoatfwain iskill'd3 WillFrye 
is wounded, and lam a Prifoner; and if you do not 
yield, you are all loft. 

Will they give us Qiiarter then, (fays Tojn 
Smith) and we will yield? VU go and ask, if you 
prornife to yield, fays Robinfon ; fo he ask'd the Cap- 
tain, and the Captain then calls himfelf out. You 
Smith, you know my Voice, it you lay down your 
Arms immediately, andfubmit, you fhall have your 
Lives all but Will Atkins. 

Upon this. Will Atkins cry'd out. For God*sfake, 
Captain, give me Quarter, what have I done ? T'hey 
have been all as bad as I, which^ by the way, was not 
true neither ,* for ic feems this WiU Atkins was the 
firfl Man that laid hold of the Captain, when they 
flril miitiny'd, and us'd him barbarouily, in tying 
his Hands, and giving him injurious Language. 
However, the Captain told hiin he muft lay down 
his AtHiS at Difcrerion^ and truft to the Gover- 

nours 



f 3'8] 



nour's Mercy, by which he meant me ; for they 
all call'ti me Governour. 

In a word, they all laid down their Arms, and 
begg'd their Lives ; and I fent the Man that had 
parly'd with them, and two more, who bound 
them all; and then my great Army of 50 Men, 
which particularly with thofe three, were all but 
eight, came up and feiz'd upon them all, and upon 
their Boat, only that I kept my felf and one more 
out of Sight, for Reafons of State. 

Our next Work was to repair the Boat, and 
think of feizing the Ship,* and as for the Captain, 
now he had Leifure to parly with them : He expo- 
flulated with them upon the Viliany of their Pra- 
dices with him, and at length upon the farther 
Wickednefs of their Defign, and how certainly it 
muft bring them to Mifery and Diflrefs in the End, 
and perhaps to the Gallows. 

They all appeared very penitent, and begg'd hard 
for their Lives : As for that, he told them they 
were none of his Prifoners, but the Commander of 
the Ifland ; that they thought they had fet him on 
Shore in a barren uninhabited Ifland, but it had 
pleafed God fo to dired them, that the Ifland 
was inhabited, and that the Governour was an 
Englip Man ; that he might hang them all there, if 
he pleas'd ; but as he had given them all Quarter, 
he fuppofed he would fend them to England to be 
dealt with there, as Jufliice required, except At- 
kins, who he was commanded by the Governour 
to advifc to prepare for Death i for that he would 
be hang'd in the Morning. 

Though this was all a Fidion of his own, yet 
it had its delir'd Efteft j Atkins iQ\\\.\Y>on his Knees 
to beg the Captain to intercede with the Gover- 
nour for his Life; and all the reft begg'd ot him 

for 



[ 3^9 1 

for God's Sake, that they might not be fent to 
England. 

It now occur'd to me, that the time of our De- 
liverance was come, and that it would be a moft 
eafy thing to bring thefe Fellows in, to be hearty 
in getting PoflelTion of the Ship; fo I retired in the 
dark from them, that they might not fee what 
kindofaGovernourthcy had, and call'd the Cap- 
tain to me. When I call'd, as at a good Diftance, 
one of the Men was order'd to fpeak again, and fay 
to the Captain, Captain^ the Commander calls for 
you; and prefently the Captain reply M, Tell his 
Excellency I am jufl a coming : This more perfedly 
amus'd them ; and they all believ'd that the Com- 
mander was juft by with his fifty Men. 

Upon the Captain^'s coming to me, I told him 
my Projed for feizing the Ship, which he lik'd of 
wonderfully well, and refolv^d to put it in Execu- 
tion the next Morning. 

But in order to execute it with more Art, and 
Security of Succefs, I told him, we muft divide the 
Prifoners, and that he fhould go and take Atkins- 
and two more of the word of them, and fend them 
pinion'd to the Cave where the others lay : This 
was committed to Frtday and the two Men who 
came on Shore with tiie Captain. 

They convey 'd them to the Cave, as to a Prifon ; 
and it was indeed a difmal Place, cfpecially to 
Men in their Condition. 

The other I order'd to my Boiver, as Icaird ity 
of which I have given a hill Defcription ; and as 
it was fenc'd in, and they pinion'd, the Place was 
fecure enough, confidering tliey were upon their 
Behaviour. 

To thefe in the Morning I fent the Captain, who 
was to enter into a Parley with them, in a Word 
to try them, and tell me, whether he thought they 

might 



might be trufted or no, to go on Board.and furprize 
the Ship. He talked to them of the Injury done 
him, ot the Condition they were brought to ; and 
that though the Governourhad giv^n them Quar- 
ter for their Lives, as to the prefent Adiion, yet 
that if they were fent to England, they would all 
be hang'd in Chains, to be fure ; but that if they 
would join in fo juft an Attempt, as to recover the 
Ship, he would have the Governour's Engagement 
for their Pardon. 

Anyone may guefs hov7 readily fuch a Propofal 
would be accepted by Men in their Condition ; 
they fell down on their Knees to the Captain, and 
promifed with the deepe It Imprecations, that they 
would be faithful to him to the laft Drop, and 
that they Ihould owe their Lives to him, and 
would go with him all over the World, that they 
would own him for a Father to them as long as 
they liv^d. 

Well, fays the Captain, I muft go and tell the 
Governour what you fay, and fee what I can do 
to bring him to confent to it : So he brought me 
an Account ot the Temper he found them in; 
and that he verily believ'd they would be faith- 
ful. 

However, that we might be very fecure, I told 
him he fhould go back again, and chul'e out thofe 
five, and tell them, they might fee that he did not 
want Men, that he would take out thofe five to be 
his AflTiftants, and that the Governour would keep 
the other two, and the three that were fent Prifo- 
ners to the Caftle (my Cave) as Hoftages, for the 
Fidelity of thofe five ; and that if they prov'd un- 
faithful in the Execunion, the ^vc Hoftages fhould 
be hang'd in Chains alive upon the Shore. 

This look'd feverc, andconvinc'd them that the 

Governour 



[32-1] 

iGovernoiir was in Earneft ,* however they had no 
Way left them, but to accept it; and it was now 
the Bufinefs of the Prifoners, as much as of the 
Captain, ro perfuade the other five to do their 
Duty. 

Our Strength was now thus order'd for the Ex- 
pedition : I. The Captain, his Mate, and Paffen- 
ger. 2. Then the two Prifoners of the hrfl Gang, 
to whom having their Charaders from the Captain> 
I had given their Liberty, and trufled them with 
Arms. 3. The other two who I had kept till now, 
in my Bower, pinionM ; but upon the Captain's 
Motion, had now released. 4. Thefe five released 
at laft : So that they were twelve in ail, befides five 
we kept Prifoners in the Cave, for Hoflages. 

I ask'd the Captain, if he was willing to ven- 
ture with thefe Hands on Board the Ship; for 
as for me and my Man Friday^ I did not think 
ic was proper for us to ftlr^ having feven Men 
ieft behind ; and it was Employment enough for 
us to keep them afunder, and fuppiy them with 
Viduals. 

As to the five in the Cave, I refolv'd to keep 
them faft^but Friday went in twice a Day to them, 
to fuppiy them with NecefTariesi and I made the 
other two carry Provifions to a certain Diflance, 
where Friday was to take it. 

When 1 ftiew'd myfelf to the two Hoftages, it 
v/as with the Captain 3 who told chem, I was the 
Perfon the Governour had order'd to look after 
them, and that it was the Govcrnour's Pleafure 
they fhould not ftir any where but by my Diredi- 
on; that if they did, they (hould be ferch'd into 
the Caftle, and be laid in Irons 5 fo that as we 
never fuffet'd them to fee me as Go^ernour, fo I 
now appear 'd as another Perfon, and fpokeof the 

Y Cover* 



[ 3^i 1 

Governoiir, and GamCon, the Caftle, and the like^. 
upon all Occafions. 

The Captain now had no DifTiculty before him, 
but to fiirnifh his two Boats, ftop the Breach ot 
one, and Man them. He made/his PaiTenger 
Captain of one, wich four other Klen ; and him- 
lelt-^ and his" Mate, and five more went in the o- 
ther ; And they contriv'd their Bufinefs very well ; 
for they came up to the Ship about Midnight : As 
foon as they came within call ofthe Ship, he made 
Robinfon hale them, and tell them they had brought 
off the Men and Boat, but that it was a long 
time before they had found them, and the hke ; 
holding them in a Chat till they came to the Ship's 
fide j when the Captain and the IVIate, entring 
firll with their Arms, immediately knockM down 
the fecond Mate and Carpenter with the But-end 
of their Muskets. Being very faithfully feeonded 
by their Men, they fecur'd all the reft that were 
upon the Main and Qiiarter Decks, and began to 
faften the Hatches to keep them dov/n who were 
below, when the other Boat and their Men entring 
at the Fore-Chains, ftcury theFore-Caftle of the 
Ship, and the Scuttle which went down into the 
Cook-Room, making three Men they found there 
Prifoners. 

When this was done, and allfafe upon Deck, the 
Captain order'd the Mate with three Men to break 
into the Round-Houfe, where the new Rebel Cap- 
tain lay, and having taken the Alarm, was gotten 
up, and with two Men and a Boy had gotten Fire 
Arms in their Hands, and v/hen the Mate with a 
Crow fplit open the Door, the new Captain and 
his Men fir'd boldly among them, and wounded the 
Mare with a Musket Ball, which broke his Arm, 
and wounded tu'O more of the Men, but kill'd 
no Body. 

The 



[ 3^^ ] 

... Th? Mate calling for Help, rufn'd however in- 
to the Round-Houre, wounded as he was, and 
with his Piflol fhot the new Captain thro' the 
Head^ the Bullet entring at his Mourh, and came 
out again behind one of his Ears,* (o that he never 
/poke a Word ; upon which the reft yielded, and 
the Ship was taken effeduaily, without any more 
Lives loft. 

As foon as the Ship was thus fccur'd, the Cap- 
tain ordered feven Guns to be fir'd, which was the 
Signal agreed upon with me, to give me Notice 
of his Succefs, which you may be fure I was very 
•glad to hear, having fat watching upon the Shore 
for it till near two of the Clock in the Morning. 

Having thus heard the Signal plainly, I laid me 
down ; and it having been a Day of great Fatigue 
to me, I flept very found, till I was fomething mt- 
priz'd with thi: Noife of a Gun ; and prefently 
ftarting up, i heard a Man call me. by the Name 
o^ Governour, Governour, and prefently I knew the 
Captain's Voice, when climbing up to the Top oF 
the Hill, there he ftood, and pointing to the Ship; 
he embrac'd me in his Arms, Aly dear Friend and 
Deliverer, fays he, there's your Ship, for jhe is all yours, 
and foare ix!e and all that belong to her, I caft my Eyes 
to the Ship, and there fhe rode within little more 
than half a Mile ofFthe Shores for they haP weigh- 
ed her Anchor as foon as they were Maftersof her ; 
and the Weather being fair, had brought her to an 
Anchor juft againft the Mouth of the little Creeks 
and the Tide being up, the Captain had brought 
the Pinnace in near the Place where I at firft land- 
ed my RafcSj and fo landed juft at my Door. 

I was at firft ready to fink down with the Sur- 
prize. Fori faw my Deliverance indeed vifibly 
put into my Hands, all Things eafy, and a large 
Ship juft ready to carry me away whither I plea- 

Y 2 fed 



L3H ] . 

fed to go. At firil, for feme Time, II wa5 not able 
to anfwer him one Wordj but as he had taken me 
in his Arms, I held faft by hira, or I fhould have 
fallen to the Ground. . 

He perceived the Surprize, and immediately 
pulls a Bottle out of his Pocket, and gave me a 
Dram of Cordial, which he had brought on pur- 
pofc for me,- after I had drank it, I fat down up- 
on the Ground ; and tho" it brought me to my 
felf, yet it was a good while before I could fpeak 
a Word to him. 

All this while the poor Man was in as great an 
Extafy as I, only not under any Surprize, as I was ,* 
and he faid a thoufand kind tender Things to me, 
to compofe me, and bring me to m} felf ; but fuch 
was the Flood oF Joy in my Breafl, that it put all 
my Spirits into Confufion ; at laft it broke out in- 
to Tears, and in a little while after, I recovered 
my Speech. 

Then I took my Turn, and embrac'd him as 
my Deliverer j and we rejoic'd together. I told 
him, I look'd upon him as a Man fent from Heaven 
to deliver me, and that the whole Tranfaftion 
feem'd to be a Chain of Wonders ; that fuch Things 
as thefe were the Teftimonies we had of a fecret 
Hand of Providence governing the World, and an 
Evidence, that the Eyes of an infinite Power could 
fearch into the remoteft Corner of the World, and 
fend Help to the Miferable whenever he pleafed. 

I forgot not to lift up my Heart in Thankful- 
nefs to Heaven, and what Heart could forbear to 
blefs him, who had not only in a miraculous Man- 
ner provided for one in fuch a Wildernefs, and 
in fuch a defolate Condition, but from whom eve- 
ry Deliverance mult always be acknowledged ta 
proceed. 

Wka 



C 3^5 ] 

When we had talk'd a while, the Captain told 
me he had brought me fome little Refrefhment, 
inch as the Ship afforded, and fiich as the Wretches 
that had been fo long his Maflers had not plun- 
dered him of : Upon this he call'd aloud to the 
Boat, and bid his Men bring the Things a-fhore 
that v/ere for the Go\rernour ; and indeed it was 
a Prefent, as if I had been one not that was to be 
carry 'd away along with them, but as if I had 
been to dwell upon the Ifland ilill, and they were 
to go Without me. 

Firft, he had brought me a Cafe of Bottles full 
of excellent Cordial V\^aters, fix large Bottles of 
Madera Wine ; the Bottles held two Qiiarts a- 
piece ; two Pound of excellent good Tobacco, 
twelve good Pieces of the Ship's Beef, and fix Pie- 
ces of Pork, with a Bag of Peafe, and about a hun-* 
dred Weight of Bisket. 

He brought me alfo a Box of Sugar, a Box of 
Flower, a Bag full of Lemons, and two Bottles of 
Lime-juice, and abundance of other Things: But 
befides thefe, and what was a thoufand times more 
ufeful to me, he brought me Cix clean new Shirts, 
fix very good Neckcioaths, two Pair of Gloves, 
one Pair of Shoes, a Hat, and one Pair of Stock- 
ings, and a very good Suit of Cloaths of his own, 
which had been worn but very little : In a word, 
he cloathed me from Head to Foot. 

It was a very kind and agreeable Prefent, as any 
one may imagine, to one in my Circumilances . But 
never was any thing in the VVorld of that Kind fo 
unpleafanr, aukward, and uneafy, as it was to me 
to wearfiich Cloaths at their hrfi: putting on. 

After thefe Ceremonies pad, and after all his 
good Things were brought into my little Apart- 
ment, v/e began to confult what was to be done 
wi.h ih; Priloners we had ; for it was worth con- 
Y 3 fidering 



[316 ] 



fidering, whether we might venture to take them 
away with u^or no, efpecially tv^Q of them, who 
we knew to be incorrigible and refraetory to the 
laft Degree ; and the Captain faid, he knew they 
were fuch Rogues, that there was no obh'ging 
them, and if he did carry them away, it muit be 
in Irons, as Malefactors to be delivered over to Jii- 
flice at the firfl Englijh Colony he fhpuld come at; 
and I found that the Captain himfelF was very an- 
r^ious about it. 

Upon this, I told him, that if he defir'd it, I 
durft undertake to bring the two Men he (poke of, 
to make it their ov/n RequePc that he fhould leave 
them upon the Ifland : / fhotild be very glad of that^ 
lays the Captain, uvV/j all my Heart, 

Well, fays I, I will fend for them up, and talk 
with them for you ; fo I can fed Friday 2ind the two 
Hodages, for they were now difcharg'd, their. 
Comrades having perform 'd their Prom ife ; I fay, 
I caufed them to go to the Cave, and bring up the 
rive Men pinion d, as they were, to the Bovver^ 
and keep them there till 1 came. 

After fome Time, I came thither crefN'd in my 
new Habit, and now I was cail'd Govcrnour again ; 
being all met, aad the Captain with me^ Icaufed 
the Men. to be brought before me, and I told them,, 
I had had a full Account of their villainous Beha- 
viour to the Captain, and how they had run away 
with the Ship, and were preparing to commit 
farther Robberies, but that Providence had en- 
fnar'd them, in their own Ways, and that they 
were fallen into the Pit which they had digged for 
ethers. 

I let them khowj that by my Direction the Ship 
had been feiz'd, tiiat fceiaynow mciie Road; and 
:hey inight fee by and by,, that their new Captain 

had 



[3^7 ] 

had received the Reward of his Villany ,* for that 
they might fee him hanging at the Yard-Arm. 

That as to them, I wanted to know what they 
had to fay, why I fliould not execute them as Pi- 
rates taken in the Fad, as by my CommiiTion they 
could not doubt I had Authority to do. 

One of them anfwer'd in the Name of the refl. 
That they had nothing to fay but this, That when 
they were taken, the Captain promised them their 
Lives, and they humbly implor'd my Mercy : But 
1 told them, I knew not what Mercy to fhew them ; 
ior as for myfelF, I had refolv'd to quit the Ifland 
with all my Men, and had taken Paflagc with the 
Captain to go for England : And as for the Cap' 
tain, he could not carry them to £;7^te^ other than 
as Prifoners in Irons, to be try 'd for Mutiny, and 
running away with the Ship j the Confequence of 
which, they muft needs know, would be the Gal- 
lovv^s ; fo that I could not tell which was bed for 
them, unlefs they had a Mind to take their Fate 
in the Idand; if they defir'd thar, I did not care, 
as I had Liberty to leave it, I had fome Inclina- 
tion to give them their Lives, if they thought they 
could CiVik on Siiore. 

They fet'm'd very thankful for it, faid, they 
would much rather venture to ftay there, than to 
be carrv'd to England to be hang'd, (o I left it on 
rhat Iflne. 

However, the Captain fcem'd to make fome 
Difficulty of ir, as it he durft not leave them 
there : Upon this I feem'd a little angry with the 
Captain, ajid told liim, That they were my Prifo- 
ncrs, not his ; and tliat feeing I had ofcr'd thern 
fo m.uch Favour, I would be as good as my Word ,* 
and that if he did r^ot think fit to confent to it, I 
would fet them at Liberty as I foand them ; and 
' Y 4 if 



[ ^i8 ] 

if he did not like it, he might take them again if 
he could catch liiem. 

Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I 
accordingly fet them at L berty, and bad them re- 
tire into the Woods to the Place whence they came, 
and I would leave them fome Fire Arms, fome 
Ammunition, and fome Directions how they (hould 
live very well, if they thought fir. 

Upon this I prepared to go on Board the Ship, 
but told the Captain, that I would ftay that Night 
to prepare my Things, and defir'd him to go on 
Board in the mean Time, and keep all right in the 
Ship, and fend the Boat on Shore the next Day 
for me ; ordering him in the m.ean Time to caufe 
the new Captain, who was kill'd, to be hang'd at 
the Yard- Arm, that thefe Men might fee him. 

When the Captain was gone, I fent for the Men 
up to me to my Apartment, and entred ferioufly 
into Difcourfe with them of their Circumflances» 
I told them, I thought they had made a right 
Choice ; that if the Captain carry 'd them away, 
they would certainly be hanged. I fhew'd them 
the new Captain, hanging at the Yard-Arm of the 
Ship, and told them they had nothing lefs to expect. 
When they had all declared their Willingnefs to 
flay, I then told them, I would let them into the 
Story of my living there, and put them into the 
Way of making it eafy to them,. Accordingly 1 
gave them the whole Hiflory of the Place, and of 
my coming to it ; fhew'd them my Fortifications, 
the Way I made my Bread, planted my Corn, cu- 
red my Grapes I and, in a word, all th:t was 
neceffary to make them eafy: I told them the 
Story alfo of the lixteen Spaniards^ that were to be 
€xpe(5ted ; for whom I left a Letter, and made 
them promife to treat them in common with 
themfelves. 

I left 



C 3^9 ] 

I left them my Fire- Arms, viz.. Five Muskets, 
three Fowling Pieces, and three Swords. I had 
above a Barrel and half of Powder left ; for after 
the firil Year or two, I us'd but little, and wailed 
none. I gave them a Defcription of the Way I 
managM the Goats, and Diredions to milk and 
fatten them, and to make both Butter and Cheefe. 

In a word, I gave them every Part of my own 
Story ; and I told them, I would prevail with the 
Captain to leave them two Barrels of Gun-Powder 
more, and fome Garden-Seeds, which I told them 
I would have been very glad of; alfo I gave theni 
the Bag of Peafe which the Captain had brought 
me to eat, and bid them be fure to fow and encreafe 
them. 

Having done all this, I left them the next Day, 
and went on Board the Ship : We prepared imme- 
diately to fail, but did not weigh that Night : 
The next Morning early, two of the five Men 
came fwimming to the Ship's Side, and making a 
mofi: lamentable Complaint of the other three, beg- 
ged to be taken into the Ship, for God's fake, for 
they fliould be murder'd, and begg'd the Captaiu 
to take theni on board, tho' he hang'd them im- 
mediately. 

Upon this the Captain pretended to have no 
Power v/ithout me ; but after fome DiiEcuky, 
and after fome folemn Promi fes of Amendment, 
they were taken on board, and were fome time af- 
ter foundly whipp'd and pickl'd,* after which, they 
prov'd very honefl and quiet Fellows. 

Some time after this, the Boat was ordfer'd on 
Shore, the Tide being up, with the Things promi- 
fed to the Men, to which the Captain, at my Inter- 
ceffion, caus'd their Chefls and Cloaths to be add- 
ed, which they took, and were very thankful for ,* 
i alfo encouraged them, by telling them, that if 

it 



[ 530 ] 

it lai^ in my way to fend any Vedel to take them in, 
i would not forget them. 

' When I took leave of this Ifland, I carry 'd on 
board for Reliques, the great GoatVSkin-Cap I 
had made, my Umbrella, and my Parrot ; alio I 
forgot not to take the Money I formerly mentioned 
which had Iain by me fo long ufelefs, that it was 
grown rufty, or tarnifii'd, and could hardly pafs 
tor Silver, till it had been a little rubbed, and han- 
dled; as alfo the Money I found in th^ Wreck of 
the Spanip Ship: " 

• And thus I left the Ifland, the Nineteenth of 
December y'^s I found by the Ship's Account, in 
the Year i6§(5j after I had been upon it eight and 
twenty- Years, two Months, and 15? Days j being 
deliver^ from thisfc:cond Captivity, the fame Day 
of the Month that 'I firft made my Efcape in the 
Barco-Lcngo; from among the Moors o't Saliee. 
■ In this Veflel, after a- long Voyage, I arriv'd 
in England xXvz Eleventh Qiyune.'m the Year 168 7, 
having been thuty and hvc, Years abfent.' *-- - 

When I came to England, I was as perfed a 
Stranger to all the World, as i'f I had never been 
known there. My Benefadorand faithful Stew- 
iird, who I had left in Trulf with my Money, was 
alive, but had had great Misfortunes in the World ; 
was become a Widow the fccond time, and very low 
in the World : I made her eafy as to what fhe ow'd 
me,airaring her, I would give her no Trouble; but? 
on the contrary, in Gratitude to her former Care 
and Faithfulncfs to me, I relieved her, as my little 
Stock would aflbrd, which at that Time would 
indeed allow me to do but little for her ; but I af- 
lur'dhcr, I would never forget her former Kindnefs 
to iTie 7 nor did I forget her, when I had fufficient 
to.help her, as riiall be obferv'd in its place. 

I ^vent 



I went down afterwards into Torkfloire ; but my 
Father was dead,- and my Mother, and all the Fa- 
mily extind, except that I found two Sifters, and 
two of the Children of one of my Brothers, and as 
I had been long ago given over for dead, there had 
been no Proviiion made for me -, fo that in a word, 
I found nothing to relieve, or allift me ; and that 
little Money I had, would not do much for me, as 
to fettling iri the World. - 

^ I met with one Piece of Gratitude indeed, which 
I did ;iot exped; and this was, That the Mafter 
of the Ship, who 1 had fo happily delivered, and 
by the fame Means fav'd the Ship ahd Cargo, ha- 
ving given a very handfome Account to the Own- 
ers, of the .Manner how I had fav'd the Lives of 
the Men, and the Ship, they invited me to meet 
them, and fome other Merchants concerned, and 
all together made me a very handfome Compliment 
upon the Sabjeci:,;>and a Prefent of almoft two 
hundred Pounds Sterling. . 

But after making feveral ReHedions upon the 
Circum (lances of my Life, and how little way this 
would go towards fettling, me in the World, I re- 
folv'd to go to Lisbarij :and fee if I might not come 
by fome In formation, of the State of my Plantation 
in th^ Bra fiis, and of v/hatwas become of my Part- 
ner, v/ho I had reafon to fappofe had fome Years 
now given me over for dead. -.. 

. , \yith this View I took. Shipping for Lisbouy 
where i arrived in April folio v/ing; my ManFr/- 
day accompanying me very honeflly in all thefe 
Ramblings, and proving a moll faithful Servant 
upon all Occafions. . 

When I came to Lisbon, I found out by Enquiry, 
and to my particular Satisfa<!iion, my old Friend 
the Captain of the Ship, who firft took me up at 
Sea^j otf of the Shore of Africk : He was now 

^rown 



[ 33^ ] 

grown old, and had left off the Sea, having put 
his Son, who was far from a youni^ Man, into his 
Ship ♦, and who flill us'd the Braft/ Trade. The 
old Man did not know me, and indeed I hardly 
knew him ; but I foon brought him to my Remem- 
brance, and as foon brought my felf to his Remem- 
brance, when I told him who 1 was. 

After fome pailionate Exprelfions of the old Ac- 
quaintance, I enquir'd, you may be fure, after my 
Plantation and my Partner : The old Man told me 
he had not been in the Brafils for about nine Years ; 
but that he could aifure me, that when he came 
away my Partner was living -, but the Truflees, 
who I hadjoin'd with him to take Cognizance of 
my Part, were both dead ; that however, he be- 
liev'd that I would have a very good Account of 
the Improvement of the Plantation j for that upon 
the general Belief of my being caft away, and 
drown'd, my Truftees had given m the Account of 
the Produce of my Part of the Plantation, to the 
Procurator Fifcal, who had appropriated it, in 
cafe I never came to claim it ; one Third to the 
King, and two Thirds to the Monaltery of St. Au- 
giifttne, to be expended for the Benefit of the Poor, 
and for the Converiion of the Indians to the Catho- 
lick Faith; but that if I appeared, or any one for 
me, to claim the Inheritance, it ihould be reftor'd ,* 
only that the Improvement, or annual Produc^tion, 
being diitributed to charitable Ufes, could not be 
reftor'd ; but he afibr'd me, that the Steward of 
the King's Revenue (from Lands) and the Provcdi- 
dore,or Steward of the Monailcry, had taken great 
Care all along, that the Incumbent, that is to fay, 
ray Partner, gave every Year a faithful Account 
oi the Produce, of which they received duly my 
Moiety. 

lask^d 



[ 5?J ] 

1 ask'd him if he knew to what Height of Im- 
provement he had brought the Plantation ? And, 
whether he thought it might be worth looking af- 
ter ? Or, whether on my going thither, I fhonld 
meet with no Obftrudion to my polTefling my juft 
Right in the Moiety ? 

He told me, he could not tell exadly to what 
Degree the Plantation was improved ; but this he 
knew, that my Partner was grown exceeding rich 
upon the enjoying but one half of it; and that to 
the beft of his Remembrance, he had heard, that 
the King's Third of my Part, which was it feems 
granted away to fome other Monaftery, or religious 
Houfe, amounting to above two hundred Moi- 
dores a Year ; that as to my being reftory to a 
quiet PollefTion of it, there was no queftion to be 
made of that, my Partner being alive to witnefs my 
Title, and my Name being alio enrolled in the 
Rigifter of the Country -, alfo he told me. That 
the Survivors of my two Truflees were very fair 
honefl People, and very wealthy ; and he believ'd 
I would not only have their Affiftance for putting 
me in PoflelTion, but would find a very confiderable 
Sum of Money in their Hands, for my Account ; 
being the Produce of the Farm while their Fathers 
held the Trufl:, and before it was given up as a- 
bove, which, as he remember^, was for about 
twelve Years. 

1 fhew'd my felf a little concern'd, and uneafy 
at this Account, and enquir'd of the olci Captain, 
How it came to pafs, that the Truftees fhould thus 
difpofe my Effeds, when he knew that I had made 
my Will, and had made him, the Ponugtiefe Cap- 
tain, my univcrfal Heir, e^c. 

He told me, that was true ; but that as there 
was no Proof of my being dead, he could not ad 
as Executor, until fome certain Account fhould 

come 



..,-.[ 354 ] 

come qF, my Death,. and that beHdes, he was not 
willing to. intermeddle Vv'ith a thing fo remote ; 
that it w.as. true, he had regiftcr'd my Will, 
and put in his Claim,^ and could he have given 
any Account of my being dead or alive, he would 
have aded by Procuration, and taken Poflcffion of 
the Ingenioy fo they call'd the Sugar-Houfe, and had 
given his Son, who was now at the BrafJsi Order 
to do it. . ^ 

But, fays the old Man, I nave one Piece of 
News to tell you, which perhaps may not be fo 
acceptable to you as the reil:, and that is. That 
believing you were loft, and all the World believ- 
ing fo alio, your Partner and Truftees did of- 
fer to account to me in your Name, for (ix or 
eight of the firft Years of Profits, which I receiv'd ; 
but there being at that time, fays he, great Dif- 
burfements for encreaiing the VVork.^5 building an 
Tagenio^ and buying Slaves, it did not amount to 
near fo much as afterwards it produc'd : However, 
fays the old Man, I fliall give you a true Account 
of what 1 have receiv'd in a:l, and how I have dif- 
pos'd of it. 

After a few Days farther Conference with this 
ancient Friend, he brought me an Account ofthe fix 
iirfl Years Income of my Plantation, fign*d by my 
Partner and the Merchants Truflees, being al- 
ways deliver'd in Goods, ijiz.. Tobacco in Rollj, 
and Sugar in Chefts, bciides Rum, MololVus, <ii'c. 
Avhich is the Confequcnce of a Sugar VVorki and 
I found by this Account, that every Year the In- 
come conl^derably encreas'd ; but as above, the 
Disburfement being large, the Sum at hrfl was 
fmall : Howevetj the old Man let me fee, that he 
was Debtor to me 470 Moidores of Gold, befides 
60 Cheils of Sugar, and 15 double Rolls of To- 
bacco wliich were lofl in his Ship 3 he having been 

Ship- 



[ 335 1 

Siiip-vvreck'd coming Home to Lt^^hm about it 
Yt'ars aHer my leaving the Place. 

The good Man then began to complain of hi$ 
Misfor times, and how he had been oblig'd to make 
U(e ot my Mc)ney to recover his Lolies, and buy 
^iim a Share in a new Ship: However, my old 
Friend, fays he, you fliailnot want a Supply in your 
Neceffity ; and as (oon as my Son returns, you lliaii 
bb fully fatisfy'd. 

Upon this, he pulls out an old Pouch, and 
givesme i<5o/'or?w^«'z/ Moidores in Gold; and gi'- 
ving me the Writmg of his Title to the Ship, which 
his Son was gone to the Brafils in, of which ht 
was a Qiiarter Part Owner, and his Son another, 
he puts them both into my Hands for Security of 
the reft. 

I was too much ftiov'd with the Honefly and 
Kindnefs of the poor Man, to be able to bear this ; 
and remembring what he had done for me, how- 
he had taken me up at Sea, and howgeneroufly he 
had us'd me on all Ocealions, and particularly, 
how lincere a Friend he was now to me, I could 
hardly refrain weeping at what he faid to mc i 
Therefore firfl I ask'd him, if his Circumftances 
admitted him to fpare fomuch Money at that time, 
and if it would not Ifraiten him ? He told me, he 
could not fay but it might ftraiten him a little; but 
however it was my Money, and I might want it 
more than lie. 

Every thing the good Man faid was full of Af- 
fedion, and I could hardly refrain from Tears 
while he fpoke : In fhort, I took loo of the Moi- 
dores, and call'd for a Pen and Ink to give him a 
Receipt for them, then I return'd him the reft, and 
told him. If ever I had Pofleffion of the Plantation, 
I would return the other to him alfo, as indeed 1 af- 
terwards did j and that as to the Bill of S*)le of 

his 



his Part in his Son's Ship, I would not take it by 
any Means -, but that if I wanted the Money, I 
found he was honeft enough to pay me ; and if I 
did not, but came to receive what he gave me rea- 
fon to exped, I would never have a Penny more 
from him. 

When this was pafs'd, the old Man began to ask 
me. If he Ihould put me into a Method to make my 
Claim to my Plantation ? I told him, I thought to 
go over to it my k\ii He faid, I might do fo if I 
pleas'd ; but that if I did not, there were Ways e- 
nough to fecure my Right, and immediately to ap- 
propriate the Profits to my Uk; and as there were 
Ships in the River of Lisbon, juft ready to go away 
to Brajil, he made me enter my Name in a publick 
Regifter, with his Affidavit, affirming upon Oath 
that I was alive, and that I was the fame Perfon 
who took up the Land for the planting the faid 
Plantation at firff. 

This being regularly attefted by a Notary, and 
a Procuration affix^, he dire^ied me to fend it with 
a Letter of his Writing, to a Merchant of his Ac- 
quaintance at the Place, and then proposed my 
ffaying with him till an Account came of the re- 
turn. 

Never any Thing was more honourable, than 
the Proceedings upon this Procuration ; for in lefs 
than feven Months I received a large Packet from 
the Survivors of my Truftees the Merchants, for 
whofe Account I went to Sea, in which were the 
following particular Letters and Papers, enclosM. 

Firfty There was the Account current of the 
Produce of my Farm, or Plantation, from the Year 
when their Fathers had ballanc';d with my old Por- 
?tt^^/ Captain, being for fix Years ; the Ballance ap- 
peared to be 1 174 Moidores in my Favour. 

■ ,, „. Secondly f 



[ 5?7 1 

Secondly, There was the Account of four Yeats 
more while they kept the Effeds in their Hands^ 
before the Government claim'd the Adminillra- 
tion, as being the Effects of a Perfon not to be 
found, which they call Civil Death ; and the Bal- 
lance of this, the Value of the Plantation encrea-, 
fing, amounted to Cruifadoes, which made 

3241 Moidores. 

Thirdly, There was the Prior of the Augufiine's 
Account, who had receivM the Profits for above 
fourteen Years,* but not being to account for what 
was difpos^d to the Hofpital, very honeftly de- 
clar'd he had 872 Moidores not diftributed, which 
he acknowledge to my Account; as to the King's 
Parr, that refunded nothing. 

There was a Letter of my Partner's congratu- 
lating me very affedionately upon my being alive, 
givin^g me an Account how the Eflate was im« 
prov'd, and what it produced a Year^ with a Par- 
ticular of the Number of Squares or Acres that it 
contain'd -, how planted, how many Slaves there 
were.upon it, and making two and twenty Croffes 
for Bleffings, told me he had faid fo many Ave Ma-*^ 
ria\ to thank the Bleffed Virgin that I was alive; 
inviting me very pailionately to come over and 
take PoflefTion of my own ; and in the mean Time 
to give him Orders to whom he fhould deliver my 
Efteds, if I did not come myfelf,* concluding 
with a hearty Tender of his Friendfhip, and that 
of his Family, and fent me, as a Prefcnt, fevea 
fine Leopard's Skins, which he had it feems recei- 
ved from Africa, by fome other Ship which he had 
fent thither, and who it feems had made a better 
Voyage than I : He fent mealfo five Ghefls of ex- 
cellent Sweet-meats, and an hundred Pieces of Gold 
uneoin^'d, not quite fo large as Moidores* 

Z; By 



[338 



1 
J 

By the fame Fleet, my two Merchant Truftees 
lliipp'd mc 1 200 Chefts of Sugar, 800 RoDs of To- 
bacco, and the rell of the whole Accompt in Gold. 

I might well fay, now indeed, That the latter 
End of JoO was better than the Beginning. It is 
impoflible to exprefs the Fliitterings of my very 
Heart, when I look'd overthefe Letters, and efpe- 
ciaily when I found all my Wealth about me; for 
as the Brajtl Ships come all in Fleets, the fame 
Ships which brought my Letters, brought my 
Goods,- and the Effeds were fafe in the River be- 
fore the Letters came to my Hand. In a word, I 
turn'd pale, and grew lick; and had not the old 
Man run and fetched me a Cordial, I believe the 
fudden Surprize of Joy had overfet Nature, and I 
had dy'd upon the Spot. 

Nay, after that, I continu'd very ill, and was 
fo fome Hours, ^till a Phylician being fent for, and 
lomething of the real Caufe of my Illnefs being 
•known, he order 'd me to be let Blood, after 
which, I had Relief, and grew v/ell : But I verily 
believe, if it had not been easM by a Vent given. 
in that Manner to the Spirits, 1 fhould have 
dyM. 

I was now Mader, all on a fudden, of above 
5000 /. Sterling in Money, and had an Eflate, as 
I might well call it, in the Brafils^ of above a 
thoufand Pounds a Year, as fure as an Ellate of 
Lands in Eyigland : And, in a word, I was in a 
Condition which I fcarce knew how to underftand, 
or now to compofe m}felf, for the Enjoyment of 
it. 

The firfl Thing I did, was to recompenfe my 
original Bcnefa<ftor, my good old Captain, who 
had been hrft charitable to me in my Diftrefs, 
kind to me in ray Beginning, and honeff to meat 
the End: 1 Ih.w'd him all that was fent me, I 

told 



[ 339 1 



told him, fliat next to the Providence of Heaven^ 
which difpoks all Things, it was owing to him^ 
and that it now lay on nie to reward him, which 
I would do a hundred Fo!d: So I firii: return 'd to 
him the hundred Moidores I had received ofhim^ 
then I Tent lor a Norary, and can fed him to draw- 
up a general Rekafe or Difcharge for the 470' 
Moidores, which he had aciaiowledg'd he ow'd 
me in the fulleil: and firmell: Manner poifible ; af- 
ter which, I caufed a Procuration to be drawn^ 
impowering him to be my Receiv-er of the annual 
Profits of my Plantation, and appointing my Part- 
ner to accompt to him, and make the Returns by 
the ufual Fleets to him in my Name ; and a Claufe 
in the End, being a Grant of 100 Moidores a Year 
to him, during his Life, out of the Effeds, and 
50 Moidores a Year to his Son after him, for his 
Life : And thus I requited my old Man. 

I was now to confider which Way to fleer my 
Courfe next, and what to do with the Eflate that 
Providence had thus put into my Hands ; and in- 
deed I had more Care upon my Head now, than 
I had in my filent Scate of Life in the Ifland, 
where I wanted nothing but what I had, and 
had nothing but what I wanted : Whereas I had 
now a great Charge upon me, and my Bufinefs 
was how to fecure it. I had ne'er a Cave now to 
hide my Money in, or a Place where it might lye 
without Lock or Key, 'till it grew mouldy and 
tarnifh'd before a.i/y Body would meddle with it : 
On the contrary, I knew not where to put it, or 
who to trull: with it. My old Patron, the Cap- 
tain, indeed was honefl, and that was the only Re- 
fuge I had. 

In the next Place, my Intereft in the Ay?//j 
feem'd to Uimmon me thither, but now I could 
not tell how to think of going thither, 'tilll had 

Z 2 fettled 



[ 340 ] 

fettled my Affairs, and left my Effects in fome faf* 
Hands behind me. At firll I thought of my old 
Friend the Widow, who I knew was honeft, and 
would be juft to me ; but then (he was in Years, 
and but poor, and for ought I knew, might be in 
Debtj fo that, in a word, I had no Way but to 
go back to England myfelf, and take my Effects 
with me. 

It was fome Months however before I refolved 
upon this j and therefore, as I had rewarded the 
old Captain fully, and to his Satisfadion, who had 
been my former Benefador, fo I began to think of 
my poor Widow, whofe Husband had been my 
firfl: Benefador, and fhe, while it was in her Pow- 
er, my faithful Steward and Inflrudor. So the.firft 
Thing I did, I got a Merchant in Lisbon to write 
to his Correfpondent in London, not only to pay 
a Bill, but to go find her out, and carry her in Mo- 
ney an hundred Pounds from me, and to talk with 
her, and comfort her in her Poverty, by telling her 
fhe fiiould, if I livM, have a farther Supply : At 
the fame Time I fent my two Sifters in the Coun- 
try, each of them an hundred Pounds, they being, 
though not in Want, yet not in very good Cir- 
cumftances ; one having been marry ''d, and left a 
Widow J and the other having a Husband not fo 
kind to her as he (hould be. 

But among all my Relations, or Acqnaintarcef, 
I could not yet pitch upon one, to whom I durfl 
commit the Grofs of my Stock, that I might go 
away to the Brafdsy and leave Things fafe behind 
me ; and this greatly perpJex'd me. 

I had once a Mind to have gone to the Brafils^ 
and have fettled myfelf there ; for I was, z.% it 
were, naturalized to the Places but I had fome lit- 
tle Scruple in my Mind about Religion, which 
infenfibly drew me back, of wh.ch^I fh all fay 

more 



[541 ] 

more prefently. However, it was not Religion 
that kept me from going there for the prefent ; 
and as I had made no Scruple of being openly of 
the Religion of the Country, all the while I was 
among them^ fo neither did I yet ; (only that now 
and then having of late thought more of it, than 
formerly) when I began to think of living and dy- 
ing among them, I began to regret my haying pro- 
fefs'd myfelf a Papift, and thought it might not be 
the befl: Religion to die with. 

But, as I have faid, this was not the main Thing 
that kept me from going to the Brafils, but that re- 
ally I did not know with whom to leave my Effeds 
behind me ; f o I refolvM at laft to go to England 
with it, where, it I arrived, I concluded I fhould 
make fome Acquaintance, or find fome Relations 
that would be faithful to me ; and accordingly I 
prepared to go for England with all my Wealth. 

In order to prepare Things for my going Home, 
I firft, (the Brajll Fleet being juft going away) refol- 
ved to give Anfwers fuitable to the jufi: and faithful 
Account of Things I had from thence j and firil: to 
the Prior of St. Auguftine I wrote a Letter full of 
Thanks for their juft Dealings, and the Offer of the 
872 Moidores, which was undifpofed of, which I 
defir'd might be given 500 to the Monaflcry, and 
372 to the Poor, as the Prior fhould dired, deii- 
rmg the good Padres Prayers for me, and the like 

1 wrote next a Letter of Thanks to my two 
Truflees, with all the Acknowledgment that fo 
much Juflice and Honefty call'd for ', as for fend- 
ing them any Prefent, they were far above having 
any Occafion of it. 

Lafth'j I wrote to my Partner, acknowledging 
his Induftry in the improving the Plantation, and 
his Integrity in encreafing the Stock of the Works, 
giving him Inflructions for his future Govern- 

Z 3 ment 



[ 34^ ] 



mentof my Part, according to the Powers I had 
left with my old Patron, to whom I defir'd him to 
fend whatever became due to me, 'till he ihould 
hear from me more particularly ; afluring him that 
it was my Intention, not only to come to him, but 
to fettle myfelf there for the Remainder of my 
Life : To this I added a very handfom Prefent of 
fome Italian Silks for his Wife, and two Daugh- 
ter's, for fuch the Captain^'s Son informed me had; 
with two Pieces of fine EtiglifJ) Broad-Cloath, the 
belt I could get in Lisbon, five Pieces of black Bays, 
and fome Flanders Lace of a good Value. 

Having thus fettled my Affairs, fold my Cargoe, 
and turn'd all my Efects into good Bills of Ex- 
change ; my next Difficulty was, which Way to 
go to England , I had been accuftom'd enough to 
the Sea, and yet I had a ftrange Averfion to going 
to England by Sea at that time ; and tho' I could 
give no Reafon for it, yet the Difficulty encreas'd 
upon me fo much, that though I had once fhipp'd 
my Baggage, in order to go, yet I alter'd my Mind, 
and that nor orxe, but two or three times. 

It is true, I had been very unfortunate by Sea, 
and this might be fome of the Reafons : But let 
no Man flight the flrcng Impulfes of his own 
Thoughts in Cafes of fuch Moment: Two of the 
Ships which 1 had fingled out to go in, I mean, 
more particularly fingled out than any other, that 
is to fay, (o as in one of them to put my Things on 
Board, and in the other to have agreed with the 
Captain ; I fay, two of thefe Ships mifcarry'd, 'viz.. 
one was taken by the Algerines, and the other was 
caft away on the Start near Tor bay, and all the 
People drown'd except three ; fo that in either of 
thole Vefiels I had been m.ade miferable ; and in 
which mof^, it v/as hard to fay. 

Having 



[ 343 ] 

Having been thus harafs'd in my Thoughts, my 
old Pilot, to whom I communicated ever thing, 
prefs'd me earnefUy not to go by Sea, but either 
to go by Land to the Groyne, and crofs over the 
Buy of Bijcay to Rocbel/, from whence it was but 
an eafy and fafe Journey by Land to Parisy and fo 
to Calais and Dvijer ; or to go up to Madridy and 
fo all the Way by Land thro' France. 

Li a word, I was fo prepoilcfs'd again (1 my going 
by Sea at all, except from Calais to Dover , that 
1 refoiv'd to travel all the Way by Land ; which 
as I was not in Hafte, and did not value the 
Charge, was by much the pjcafanter Way.; and to 
make it more fo, my old Captain brought an En- 
gllfjj Gentleman, the Son of a Merchant in Liskn, 
who was willing to travel with me : Af-ter which, 
we picked up two more Englijh Merchants alfo, and 
two young Portugueje Gentlemen, the laft going to 
Paris only ; To that we were in all fix of us, and 
live Servants ; the two Merchants and the two 
Portuguefei contenting tnemfelves with one Servant 
between two, to fare the Charge; and as forme, 
I got an English Sailor to travel with me as a Ser- 
vant, beiides my Man Friday-, who was too much 
a Stranger to be capable of (applying the Place of 
a Servant on the Road. 

In this Manner I fee out from Lisbon \ and our 
Company being all very well mounted and armed, 
we made a little Troop, whereof they did me the 
Honour to call me Captain, as well becaufe I 
was the oldelt Man, as becaufe I had two Ser- 
vants, and indeed was the Original of the vv^hole 
Journey^ 

As I have troubled you with none of my Sea- 
Journals, fo I (liall trouble you now with none of 
my Land-Journal : But fome Adventures that hap- 

Z 4 pen'd 



C 544 ] 

pen'd to us in this tedious and diificuit Journey, I 
mufl not omit. 

When we came to Madrid, we being all of us 
Strangers to Spain, were willing to flay fome time 
to fee the Court of Spain, and to fee what was 
worth obferving ,* but it being the latter Part of 
the Summer, we haften'd away, and fet out from 
Madrid about the Middle of Oclober : But when we 
came to the Edge of Navarre, we were alarm'd at 
feveral Towns on the Way, with an Account, that 
fo much Snow was fallen on the French Side of the 
Mountains, that feveral Travellers were obliged 
to comeback to Pampeluna, a.kcr having attempted 
at an extream Hazard to pafs on. 

When we came to Pampeluna it felf, we found it 
fo indeed ; and to me that had been always ufed 
to a hot Climate, and indeed to Countries where 
we could fcarce bear any Cloaths on, the Cold was 
infufferable j nor indeed was it more painful than 
it wasfurprizing, to come but ten Days before out 
of the Old Cafiile, where the Weather was not only 
warm, but very hot ,* and inimediately to feel a 
Wind from the Pyrenean Mountains, io very keen, 
fo feverely cold, as to be intolerable, and to en- 
danger benumbing and pcriftiing of our Fingers 
and Toes. 

Poor Friday was really frighted when he faw the 
Mountains all cover^'d with Snow, and felt cold 
Weather, which he had never feen or felt before 
in his Life. 

To mend the Matter, when we came to Pam- 
feluna, it continued fnowing with fo much Vio- 
lence, and fo long, that the People faid, VVjnter 
was come before its time, and the Roads which 
were difficult before, were now quite impaffible : 
for in a word, the Snow lay in fome Places too 
chick for ns to travel i and being not hard frozen, as 

is 



is the Cafe in Northern Countries : There waj no 
going without being in Danger ot being bury'd 
alive every ftep. We flayed no lefs than twenty 
Days 2LtPampelum ; when feeing the Winter com- 
ing on, and no likelihood of its being better j for 
it was the fevereft Winter all over Europe that had 
been known in the Memory of Man. I proposed 
that we ftiould all go away to Fontarabiay and there 
taking Shipping for Bourdeauxy which was a very 
little Voyage. 

But while we were confidering this; there came 
in four French Gentlemen, who having been flopped 
on the French Side of the PafTes, as we were on 
the Spanifiy had found out a Guide, who traverfing 
the Country near the Head of Languedocy had 
brought them over the Mountains byfuch Ways, 
that they were not much incommoded with the 
Show; and where they met with Snow in any 
Quantity, they faid it was frozen hard enough to 
bear them and their Horfes. 

We fent for this Guide, who told us, he would 
undertake to carry us the fame Way with no Ha- 
zard from the Snow, provided we were armed fuf- 
ficiently to proted us from wild Beafts ; for he 
faid, upon thefe great Snows, it was frequent for 
feme Wolves to /how themfelves at the Foot of 
the Mountains, being made ravenous for Want 
of Food, the Ground being covered with Snow : 
We told him, we were well enough prepared for 
fuch Creatures as they were, if he would enfure 
lis from a Kind of two-legged Wolves, which we 
were told we were in moft Danger from, efpeci- 
ally on the French Side of the Mountains. 

He fatisfy'd us there was no Danger of that kind 
in the Way that we were to go; fo we readily a- 
greed to follow him, as did alio twelve other Gen- 
tlemen^ 



. [ 34-^ ] 

tlemen,\vith their Servants, fomc Fvench, fome Spa- 
nijhy who, as I faid, had attempted to go, and 
were oblig'd to come back again. 

Accordingly, we all fetout komPampeluna, with 
our Guide, on the fifteenth of Novei^ihtr ^ and in- 
deed, I was furprjz'd, when inflead of going for- 
ward, he came diredly back with us, on the fame 
Road that we came from Madrid, above twenty 
Miles ; when being pafs'd two Rivers, and come 
into the plain Country, we found our felves in a 
warm Climate again, where the Country was plea- 
fant, and no Snow to be fcen ; but on a fudden, 
turning to the Left, he approached the Mouncains 
another Way; and thought it is true, the Hiils and 
Precipices look'd dreadful, yet he made fo many 
Tours, fuch Meanders, and led us by fuch wind- 
ing Ways, that we were infenfibly pafs'd the 
Height of the Mountains, without being much 
incumbred with the Snow ; and all on a fudden, 
he fiiewM us the pleafant fruitful Provences of I^k- 
guedoc 3.nd Gafcoign^ all green and flouriftiingi tho' 
indeed it was at a great Diftance^ and we had fome 
rough Way to pafs yet. 

We were a little uneafy however, when we found 
it fnow'd one whole Day, and a Night, fo faft, 
that we could not travil ; but he bad us be eafy, 
we (hould foon be paft it all. We found indeed, 
that we began to defcend every Day, and to come 
more North than before ; and fo depending upon 
our Guide, we went on. 

It was about two Hours before Night, when 
our Guide being fomething before us, and not juft 
in Sight, out rutbv^d three monflrous Wolves, and 
after them a Bear, out of a hollow Way, adjoin- 
ing to a thckW'ood,- two of the Wolves flew up- 
on the Guide, and had he been half a Mile before 
us, he iua b-c'^n ccvour.'d indeed, before we could 

have 



[ 347 ] 

have help'd him : One of them faflned upon his 
Horfe, and the other attacked the Man with that 
Violence, that he had not Time, or not Prefence 
of Mind enough to draw his Piftol, but holIow*d 
and cry'd out *to us mod luflily ; my Man Friday 
being next to me, I bid him ride up, and fee what 
was the Matter ; as foon as Friday came in Sight 
of the Man, he hoilow'd as loud as t'other, O Ma- 
fieri Mafter I But like a bold Fellow, rode di^ 
redly up to the poor Man, and with his Piflol 
Hiot the Wolf tiiarr attacked him into the Head. 

It was happy for the poor Man, that it was my 
% Man Friday ; for he having be^^i usM to that kind 
of Creature in his Country, had no Fear upon 
him i but went clofe up to him, and Ihot him as 
above ; whereas any of us, nvould have fir'd at a 
farther diftance, and have perhaps either mi(sd the 
Wolf, or endangered fhooting the Man. 

But it was enough to have terrify ''d a bolder 
Man than I, and indeed it alarm 'd our Compa- 
ny, when with the Noife of Friday s Piflol, we 
heard on both Sides the difmailell: Howling of 
Wolves, and the Noife redoubled by the Eccho of 
the Mountains, that it was to us as il there had 
been a prodigious Multitude of them; and per- 
haps indeed there was not fuch a few, as that we 
had noCaufe of Apprehenfions. 

However, as Friday had kiil'd this Wolf, theo- 
ther that had faflned upon the Horfe, left him im- 
mediately, and fled ; having happily faflned upoii 
his Flead, where the Boffes of the Bridle had fluck 
in his Teeth ; fo that he had not done him much 
Hurt: The Man indeed was moil Hurt; for the 
raging Creature had bit him twice, once on the 
Arm, and the other time a little above his Knee ; 
^nd he was jufl as it were tumbling down by the 

Diforder 



. . [ 348 ] 

piforder oft his Horfe, when Friday came up and 
fliottheWolF. 

It is eafy to fuppofe, that at the Noife of Fr/- 
J/z/s Piflol, we all mended our Pace, and rid up as 
fad as the Way (which was very difficult) would 
give us leave, to fee what was the Matter ; as foon 
as we came clear of the Trees, which blinded us 
before, we faw clearly what had been the Cafe, 
and how Friday had difengag'd the poor Guide ; 
though we did not prefcntly difcern what kind of 
Creature it was he had kiU'd. 

But never was a Fight manag'd fo hardly, and 
in fuch a furprizing Manner, as that which followed 
between Friday and the Bear, which gave us all 
(though at firfl: we were furpriz'd and afraid for 
Bim) the greatefl Diverfion imaginable : As the 
Bear is a heavy, clurafey Creature, and does not 
gallop as a Wolf does, who is fvvifc and light *, 
fo he has two particular Qiialities, which generally 
are the Rule of his Adions ; Firft, As to Men, who 
are not his proper Pr ey ; 1 fay, not his proper Prey ; 
becaufe tho' I can't fay what exceiTive Hunger might 
do, which was now their Cafe, the Ground being all 
covered with Snow; but as to Men, he does not u- 
fually attempt them, unlefs they firif attack him : 
On the contrary, if you meet him in the Woods, if 
you don't meddle with him, he won't meddle with 
you y but then you muft take Care to be very civil 
to him, and give him the Road j for he is a very 
nice Gentleman, he won't go a Step out of his Way 
for a Prince i nay, if you are really afraid, your 
beft way is to look another Way, and keep ^oiwg 
on ; for fometimes if you ftop, and fland (till, and 
look fteadily at him, he takes it for an AflVoni ; but 
if j'ou throw ortofs any Thing at him, and ithits 
him, though it were but a bit of a SLick, as bjgas 
yoa;:bFinger, he raises it for an Affront, and fets all 



[ 349 1 

his other Bufinefs a(ide to purfuc his Revenge; for 
he will have Satisfadion in Point oi Honour; that 
is his firft QuaHty : The next is, That if he be 
once aftronted, he will never leave you. Night or ^ 
Day, till he has his Revenge ; but follows at a good * 
round Rate, tili he overtakes you. 

My Man Friday had deliver^ our Guide, and 
when he came up to him, he was helping him off 
from his Horfe; for the Man was both hurt and 
frighted, and indeed the laft more than the firft ; 
when on the fudden, we fpy'd the Bear come out of 
the Wood, and a vaft monftrous one it was, the big- 
geft by far that ever I faw. We were all a little fur- 
priz^'d when we faw him ; but when Friday faw him, 
it was eafy to fee Joy and Courage ia the Fellow's 
Countenance ; 01 0! 0! fays Friday, three times, 
pointing to him ; O Mafler ; You give me te Leave^ me 
p:)akee te Hand lijith him , me make you good laugh. 

I was (urpriz'd to fee the Fellow fo pleas'd ; Tou- 
Fool you, fays I, he mil eat you tip: Eatee me up ! 
Eatee me up I fays Friday, twice over again; Me 
eatee him up : Me make you good laugh : Tou all flay 
here, mc jhoro you good laugh ; fo down he fits, and 
gets his Boots oft in a Moment, and put on a Pair 
of Pumps, (as we call the flat Shoes they wear) 
and which he had in his Pocket, gives my other 
Servant his Horfe, and with his Gun away he flew 
fwift like the Wind. 

The Bear was walking foftly on, and offer 'd to 
meddle v.^ith no Body, till Friday coming pretty 
near, calls to him, as if the Bear could underftand 
him; Hark ye ^ hark ye, [2iy s Friday, me fpeakee wit 
you : We foliow'd at a Diflance ; for now being 
come down on the Gafcoign fide of the Mountains, 
we were entered a vaft great Foreft, where the 
Country was plain, and pretty open, though many 
Trees in it fcatter'd here and there. 

Friday 



C 350 ] 

Friday, who had as we fay the Heels of the Bear^ 
came up with him quickly, and takes up a great 
Stone, and throws at him, and hit him jufi: on the 
Head ; but did him no more harm;, than if he had 
thrown it againft a Wall ; but itanfwer*d Friday's 
End \ for the Rogue was fo void of Fear, that he 
did it purely to make the Bear follow him, and 
lliew us fome Laugh, as he cail'd it. 

As foon as the Bear felt the Stone^ and faw him, 
he turns about, and comes after him, taking devi- 
lifti long Strides, and fliuffling along at a ilrange 
Rate, lo as would have put a Horfe to a middling 
Gallop ) away runs Friday, and takes his Courfe, as 
if he run towards us for Helpj fo we all refolv'd to 
fire at once upon the Bear, and deliver my Man ; 
though I was angry at him heartily, for bringing 
the Bear back upon us, when he was going about 
his own Bufinefs another Way ; and efpecially I 
was angry thathehad turn'd the Bear upon us, and 
then run away ; and I cali'd out, Vou Dog, faid I, is 
this your making us laugh ^ Cojne au^ay, and take your 
Horfe, that ive may fl)oot the Creature', lie hears me, 
and cries out. No jl^oct, no {looot, ft and flill you get 
much Laugh. And as the nimble Creature run two 
Foot for the Bead's one, he turn'd on a fudden, on 
one (ide of us, and fee.'ng a great Oak-Tree fit for 
his Purpofe, he beckon 'd to us to follow, and dou- 
bling his Pace, he gets nimbly up the Tree, laying 
his Gun down upon the Ground, at about iivc or 
lix Yards from the Bottom of the Tree. 

The Bear foon came to the Tree, and we fol- 
low'd ac a Diftance ; the firft thing he did, he 
flopped a: the Gun, fmelt to it, but let ix. lye, and 
up he fcrambles into the Tree, climbing like a Cat, 
though (o monilruoufly heavy : I w'as amaz'd at the 
Folly, as I thought it, of my Man, and could not 
for my Life fee any thing to laugh at yet, till fee- 



[ 351 ] 

ing the Bear gee up the Tree, we all rode nearer 
to him. 

When we came to the Tree, there was Faday 
got out to the fmall End ot a large Limb of tl^e 
Tree, and the Bear got about half way to him ; 
as foon as the Bear got out to that Part where the 
Limb of the Tree was weaker^ Ha, fays he to us, 
now you fee me teachee the Bear dame i To he fails a 
jumping and fliaking the Bough, at which the Bear 
began to totter, but flood ilili, and began to look 
behind him, to fee how hefhould get backi then 
indeed we did langh heartily : But Friday had not 
done w^ith him by a great deal j when he fees him 
ftand flill, he calls out to him again, as if he had 
fuppos'd the Bear could fpeak EnglifJ) ; What, you 
no come farther ^ Pray you come farther ; fo he ief-t 
'jumping and fhaking the Bough j and the Bear, jufl: 
as if he had underflcod what he faid, did come a 
little hrther, then he fell a jumping again, and the 
Bear ftopp'd again. 

We thought now was a good time to knock himt 
on the Head, and I call'd to Friday to fland ftill, 
and we would flioot the Bear ; but he cry'd out 
earneftly, O pray ! pray ! No fhoot, m^ pool by 
ayidthen, he would have faid, hy\andhy. Howe- 
ver, to fhorten the Story, Friday danc'd fo much, 
and the Bear flood fo tickliih, that we had laugh- 
ing enough indeed, but frill could not imagine 
what the Fellow would do \ for firfl we thought 
he depended upon fhaking the Bear off; and we 
found the Bear was too cunning for that too j for 
he would not go out far enough to be thrown 
down, but clings faff wath his great broad Cla\\^s 
and Feet, fo that we could not imagine what 
would be the End of it, and where the Jefl would 
be at lafl 



But 



[ 352. ] 

But Friday put us out of doubt quickly ,* fot 
feeing the Bear cling faft to the Bough, and that 
he would not be perfuaded to come any farther ; 
JJ/elly 'iuelly fays Friday y you no come farther y me gOy 
me go 't you no come to me, me come to you ; and upon 
this, he goes out to the fmalleft End of the Bough, 
where it would bend with his Weight, and gently 
let himfelf down by it. Aiding down the Bough, 
till he came near enough to jump down on his Feet, 
and away he run to his Gun, takes it up, and ftands 
ftiU. 

Well, faid I to him, Friday, What will you do 
now ? Why don't you fhoot him ? Nofiooty fays 
Friday y no yet, me fioot now^ me no kill-, me flay, 
give you one more laugh; and indeed fo he did, as you 
will fee prefently ; for when the Bear fee his Ene- 
my gone, he comes back from the Bough where he 
ftood, but did it mighty leifurely, looking behind 
him every Step, and coming backward till he got 
into the Body of the Tree ; then with the fame 
hinder End foremoft, he came down the Tree, 
grafping it with his Claws, and moving one Foot 
at a time, very leifurely ', at this Juncture, and juft 
before he could fet his hind Feet upon the Ground, 
Friday ftept up clofe to him, clapt the Muzzel of 
his Piece into his Ear, and Ihot him dead as a 
Stone. 

Then the Rogue turn'd about, to fee if we d'lA 
not laugh, and when he faw we were pleasM by 
our Looks, he falls a laughing himfelf very loud; 
So we kill Bear in my Country, fays Friday : So you 
kill them, fays I, why you have no Guns : No, 
fays he, no Gun, hut (I) oot, great much long Arrow. 

This was indeed a good Diveriion to us ; but 
we were dill in a wild Place, and our Guide very 
much hurt, and what to do we hardly knew ; th« 
Howling of Wolves run much in my Head; and in 

deed 



deed, except the Noife I once heard on the Shore 
oiAfrkay of which I have faid fomething already^ 
I never heard any thing that fill'd me withfo much 
Horror. 

Tliefe things, and the Approach of Nighr, cal-* 
led us off, or elfe, as Friday would have had usj 
we fliould certainly have taken the Skin of this 
monflroiis Creature oft^ which was worth faving; 
but we had three Leagues to go, and our Guide 
hafien'd us, fo we left himi and went forward on 
our Journey. 

The Ground was flill coverM with Snow, tho^ 
net fo dt^p and dangerous as on the Mountains, 
and the ravenous. Creatures, as we heard after- 
wards, -were come down into the Foreft and plain 
Country, prtfs'd by HuAger to feek for Food j and 
\\u<A doi\^ a great deal of Mifchief in the Villages, 
where they furpriz'd the Country People^ killed a 
great many ot their Sheep and Horfes, and fome 
People too. 

VVe had one dangerous P'ace to pafs, which 
our Guide told us, it there were any more Wolves 
in the Country, we fhould find them there j and 
this was in a fmall Plain, furrounded with Woods 
on every Side, and a long narrow Defile or Lane, 
which we were to pafs to get through the Wood, 
and then we fhould come to the Village where we 
were to lodge. 

It was within half an Hour of Sun-fet when we 
enter'd the firft Wood; and a Htt'e after Sun-feti,., 
when we came into the Plain, we n>et With no-,. 
thing in the firft Wood, except that in a h'ttle;- : 
Piam within the Wood, which was not above two 
Furlongs over, we faw five great Wolves crofs the 
Road, full Speed one after another, as if they had 
been in Chafe of fome Prey, and had it in View, 
A a they 



[ 354 ] 

they took no Notice of us, and were gone, and 

out of OLir Sight in a few Moments. 

.:^ .Upon this our Guide, who by the Way was a 

■ wretched fainter-hearted Fellow, bid us keep in a 

^ ready Poflure ; for he belie v'd there were more 
Wolves a coming. 

We kept our Arms ready, and our Eyes about us, 

'but we faw no more Wolves, 'cill we came thro' 
that Wood, which was near half a League, and en- 
terM the Plain ; as foon as we came into the Plain, 
we had Occafion enough to look about us; The 

' firft Objed we met with, was a dead Horfe ; 
that is CO fay, a poor Horfe which the Wolves 
had kiil'd, and at leaft a Dozen of them at work; 
we could not fay eating of him, but picking of his 
Bones rather ; for they had eaten up all the Flefli 
before. 

We did not think fit to diflurb them at their 
^Feail, neither did they take much Notice of 
us : Friday would have let fly at them, but I 
would not fuft-er him by any Means ; for 1 found 
we were like to hav^e more Bufinefs upon our 
Hands than we were aware of. We were not 
gone half over the Plain, but we began to hear the 
Wolves houl in the Wood on our Left, m a fright- 
ful Manner, and prefently after we faw about a 
hundred coming on diredly towards us, all in a 
Body, and moil of them in a Line, as regularly as 
an Army drawn up by experienced Officers. I 
fcarce knew in wnat Manner to receive them ; 
but found to dra^v our felves in a clofe Line was 
the only Way; So we form'd in a Moment : But 
tlia't we might not have too much Interval, I or- 
dered, that/ only every other Man fhould fire, and 
that tlje others who had not fir'd {liould (land reu- 
dy to giv-e' thciTi a fecond Vo.Jey immediately, if 
they cotttinu'd to advance upon us, and that then 

thole 



r S5$ ] 

Hiofe who had fir*d at firft, (houldnot pretend to 
joad their Fuzecs again, but Hand ready with every 
one a Piftol ; for we were all arm'd with a Fuzee^ 
and a Pair of Hiilols each Man ; fo we were by 
this Mechod able to fire fix Volleys, half of us ac 
a Time ; however, at prefenc wc had no Neccffi- 
ty \ for upon firing the firft Volley, the Enemy 
made a full nop, being territyd as well with the 
Noife, as with the Fire i four of them being Ihoc 
into the Head,droppy3reveralothers were wound- 
ed, and went bleeding off, as we could fee by the 
Snow : I found they ftopp'd, bnt did not irnmedi- 
ately retreat ; whereupon remembring that I had 
been told^ that the Herceft Creatures wereterri- 
fv'd at the Voice of a Man, I caus'd all our Com- 
pany to hollow as loud as we could ; and I found 
the Notion not altogether miftaken; for upon 
our Shout, they began to retire, and turn abouti 
thenlordcr'd a fecond Volley to be fir'd, in chefr 
Rear, which put them to the Gallop, and away 
they wTnt to the Woods. 

This gave us leifure to charge our Peices again, 
and that we might lofe no Time, we kept going ,• 
but we had but little more than loaded our Fu- 
zees, and put our felvesinto a Readinefs, when 
. we heard a terrible Noife in the fime Wood, on 
our h^th^ only that it was farther onv/ard the 
fame Way we were to go. 

The Night was coming on, and the Light be- 
g.in to be duiky, which made it worfeon our Side; 
biTt the Noife cncreafing, we could eafily perceive 
that k was the howling and yelling of thofe hel- 
liQi Creatures ; and on a fudden, v/e perceiv'd 2 or 
^ Troops of Wolves, one on our Left, one behind 
us, and one on our Front •, (o that we feem'd to 
be furrounded with'em-, however, as they did not 
fall upon us, we kept our Way fotward, as faft as 
A a 2 ' we 



wc could make our Horfes go, which the Way be- 
ing very rough, was only a good large Trot ; and 
in this Manner we came in View ot the Entrance 
of a Wood, thro' which we were to pafs, at the 
farther Side of the Plain ; but we were greatly fur- 
priz'd, when coming near the Lane, or Pafs, we 
faw a confus'd Number o[ Wolves {landing jufl at 
the Entrance. 

On a fudden, at another opening of the Wood, 
we heard the Noife of a Gun; and looking that 
Way, out rufh'd a Horfe, with a Saddle, and a 
Bridle on him, flying like the V/ind, and iixteen or 
feventeen Wolves after him, full Speed ; indeed, 
the Horfe had the Heels of them; but as we flip- 
pos'd that he could not hold it at that rate, we 
doubted not but they would get up with him at 
laft, and no queftion but they did. 

But here we had a mofl horrible Sight ; for ri- 
ding up to the Enterance where the Horfe came 
out, we found the Carcafs of another Horfe, and of 
two Men, devour'd by the ravenous Creatures, and 
one of the Men was no doubt the fame who we 
heard^^fir'd the Gun ; for there lay a Gun juft by 
him t\id off; but as to the Man, his Head, and 
the upper Part of his Body, was eaten up. 

This fiU'd us with Horror, and we knew not 
what Coiirfe to take, but the Creatures refoiv'd us 
loon ; for rhey gather'd about usprefently, in hopts 
of Prey ; and, I ven'ly bel'eve there were three hun- 
dred of them : It happened very much to our Ad- 
vantage, that at the Entrauce inro the Wood, but 
a little Way from it, there lay fome large Timber 
Trees, which had been cut down the Summer be- 
fore, and I fuppofe, lay there for Carriage ; I drew 
niy little Troop in among tbofe Trees, and placing 
our felves in a Line, behind one long Tree, I ad- 
vis'd them all to light, and keeping that Tree be- 
fore 



[357] 

fore us, for a Breaft-Work, to ftand in a Tri-' 
angle, or three Fronts, enclofing our Horfes in 
the Center. 

We did fo, and it was well we did ^ for never 
was a more furious Charge than the Creatures 
made upon us in the PJace^ they came on us with 
a growJfng kind of a Noffe and mounted the Piece 
of Timber, (which as I faid, was our Bread- Work) 
as if they were only rufliing upon their Prey 5 and 
this Fury of theirs, it feem^ was principally occa- 
iion'd by their feeing our Horfes behind us, which 
was the Prey they aim'd at : I ordered our Men to 
fire as before, every other Man ; and they took 
their Aim fofure, that indeed they kill'd feveral 
of the Wolves at the firft Volley '•> but there was 
a Neceflity to keep a continual Firing ; for they 
came on like Devils, thofe behind, pufliing on 
thofe before. 

When we had fir'd our fecond Volley of our 
Fuzces, we thought they ftopp'd a iittie, and I 
hop'd they would have gone oS; but it was but 
a Moment j for others came forward again ; fo 
v/efir'd two Volleys ofourPiftols, and I believe 
hi thcfc four Firings, we kill'd feventeen or eigh- 
teen ofthem.andlam'd twice as many-, yet they 
came on again. 

1 was loath to fpend our lafl Shot toohaftily-, fo 
I ciird my Servant, not my Man Friday, for he was 
better employ'd •, for with the grcatelt Dexterity 
iiraglnable, he had charg'd my Fiizee, and his 
own , w hile we were engag'd , but as 1 laid, i call'd 
my 01 her Mm, and giving him a Horn of Powder, 
I bad him lay a Train, all along the Piece of Tim- 
ber, and let it be a large Train >hedid fo, and had 
but K](\ Time togct away, when the Wolvescamc 
up to it, and fc^me were got up upon it •, when 
1 friapping an uncharg'd Piliol, cbfetothe Pow- 
A a 3 dec, 



T 358 ] 

dcr, fct ft on firc^ thofe that ucrc upon the Tim- 
be]t were fcorch'd ' wich it, and fix or (even of 
them fefJ, or rather jiimp'd in among us, with 
the Force aod Fright ot the Fire, we difpatch'd 
thefe ill an Inftant, and the r<"(l were fo frighted 
with. the Lights which the Night, for it was 
now very near dark, made more terrible, that 
they drew back a iivtle. 

Upon which I ordcr'd our lailPiftoIs to be fir'd 
off in one Volley, and after chat we gave a Shout •, 
upon this, the Wolves turn'd Tail, and we fal- 
Iy*d immedi.ncly upon near twenty hme One^, 
who we found flruggling on the Ground, and 
fell a cutting rhem with our Swords, which an- 
fwer'd our Expectation , for the Crying and Howl- 
ing they made, was better undcrftood by their 
Fellows, fothat they all fled and left us. 

We had, fir/1 and laft, kUVd about ihreefcore 
of them 'y and had it been Day-Lfght, we had 
kiird many more : The Field ot Battle being thus 
clear'd,wemade forward sgain ; for we had ftill 
near a League to go. We heard the ravenous 
Creatures houl and yell in the Woods as we went, 
feveral Times ^ and fcMTictimcsv/c fancy'd wefaw 
.fpmeof them, but the Snow dazling our Eyes, 
we were not certain ^ To in about an Hour more, 
we came to the Tov^n, where we were to lodge, 
which we found in a terrible Frfghf, and all in 
Arms-, for it fcem.% that the Night before, the 
Wolves and fome Bears had broke into the V'll- 
lacie, and put them in a terrible Fright; and 
they v^ere obliged to keep Guard Niglu and Day^ 
hut efpecfally in the Night, to pielerve their Cat" 
tie, and indeed their i'cople. 
^ The next Morning our Gu idc vjas (^o iH, .'^nd his 
jLimbsfwcird wi[h the ranklingof his two Wounds 
iliac hecoii'd go r.Q farther i fo we v.'creob]ig'd to 

• take 



take a new Guide there, and go to Tjfjoloufe, where 
we found a warm Climate, a fruitful pleafant Coun- 
try, and no Snow, no Wolves, or any Thing like 
them j but when we told our Story ^.tTholoufe^ they 
told us it was nothing but what was ordinary in the 
great Foreft at the Foot of the Mountains, efpeci- 
ally when the Snow lay on the Ground. But they 
enqiiir'd much what kind ot a Guide we had got- 
ten, that would venture to bring us that Way m 
fuch a fevere Seafon ; and told us, it was very much 
we were not all devoured. Vv'hen we told them how 
we plac'd our felves, and the Hoi ks in the Middle, 
they bjnm'd us exceedmgly, and told us it was fifty 
to one but we had been all deRroy'd ; for it was the 
Sight of the Horfes which made the Wolves fo fa^ 
rious, feeing their Prey ; and that at other Times 
they are really afraid of a Gun ; but they being ex- 
ceiTive hungry, and raging on that Account, the 
Eagernefs to come at the Horfes had made them 
{cnix(s of Danger,- and that if wc had not by the 
continued Fire, and at lafl by the Stratagem of the 
Train of Powder, mafter'd them, it had been great 
Odds but that we had been torn to Pieces; where- 
as had we been content to have fat ftill on Horfe- 
back, and fir'd as Horfemen, they would not have 
taken the Horfes for fo much their own when Men 
were on their Backs, as otherwife j and withal 
they told us, that at laif, ii we had flood all toge- 
ther, and left our Horfes, thty would have been fo 
eager to have devour'd, them, that we might have 
come off fafe, efpecially having our Fire Arms in 
our Hands, and being fo many m Number. 

For my Part, I was never fo fenfible of Danger 
in my Life ; for feeing above three hundred Devils 
come roaring and open-mouth'd to devour us, and 
having nothing to (helter us, or retreat to, I gave 
my fclf over for loft ,• and as it was, I believe, I 
A a 4 fhall 



•[ 3^o ] 



Ciall never care to crofs thofe Mountains again ; I 
think I would much rather go a thoufand Leagues 
by Sea, though 1 were fure to meet with a Storm 
once a Week. 

1 have nothing uncommon to take Notice of, in 
my Pafl'age through France -, nothing but what o- 
ther Travellers have given an Account of, with 
much more Advantage than I can. I travell'd from 
'Thouloufe to Parisy and without any confiderable 
Stay, came to Caliais, and landed fafe at Dover, the 
fourteenth oijanuaryy after having had a ievere 
cold Seafon to travel in. 

I was now come to the Center of my Travels, 
and had in a little Time all my new difcover'd E- 
ftate fafe about me, the Bills of Exchange which I 
brought with me having been very currently paid. 

My principal Guide, and Privy-Counfellor, was 
my good ancient Widow, who in Gratitude for the 
Money I had fent her, thought no Pains too much, 
pr Care too great, to employ for me; and I trufted 
her fo entirely with every Thing, that I was per- 
fectly eafy as to the Security of my Effects; and in- 
deed, I was very happy from my Beginning, and 
now to the End, m the unfpotted Integrity of this 
good Gentlewoman. 

And now I began to think of leaving my EfFedts 
with this Woman, and fetting out for Liihon, and 
fo to the Braftls ; but now another Scruple came in 
my Way, and that was Religion; for as I had en- 
tertained fome Doubts about the Roman Re'igion, 
even while 1 was abroad, efpecially in my State of 
Solitude ; fo 1 knew there was no going to the Bra- 
//i for me, much lefs going to fettle there, unlefs I 
refolvM to embrace xh^ Roman Catholick Religion, 
without any Referve; unlefs on the other hand, I 
rcfolv'd to be a Sacrifice to my Principles, be a 
Martvr for Religion, and die in the Inquiiition s fo 

Ire- 



[ ^6l ] 

I refolv'd to flay at Home, and if I could find 
Means for it, to difpofe of nny Plantation. 

To this Purpofe I wrote to my old Friend at 
L'tshon^ who in Return gave me Notice, that he 
could eafily difpofe of it there : But that if I 
thought fit to give him Leave to offer it in my 
Name to the two Merchants, the Survivors of my 
Truftees who iiv'd in the Brafih, who muft fully 
underftand the Value of it,wholiv'd juft upon the 
Spot, and who I knew v/ere very rich, fo that he 
believed they would be fond of buying it j he did 
not doubt, but I fhould make 4 or 5000 Pieces of 
Eight the more of it. 

Accordingly I agreed, gave him Order to offer 
it to them, and hedidfoj and in about 8 Months 
more, the Ship being then return'd, he fent me an 
Account, that they had accepted the Offer, and 
had remitted 33000 Pieces of Eight, to a Cor- 
refpondent of theirs at Lisbon, to pay for it. 

In Return, Ilign'dthelnilrument of Sale in the 
Fo^m which they fent from Lisbon, and fent it to 
my old Man, who fent me Bills of Exchange for 
328000 Pieces of Eight to me, for the Eftate,- re- 
ferving the Payment of 100 Moidores a Year to 
him, the od Man, during his Life, and 50 Moi- 
dores afterwards to his Sen for his Life, which I 
hadpromis'd them, which the Plantation was to 
make good as a Rent-Charge. And thus I have 
given the firfl: Part of a Life of Fortune and Ad- 
venture, a Life of Providence's Checquer-Work, 
and of a Variety which the World will feldom be 
able to fiiew the like of: Beginning foolifhly, but 
doling much more happily than any Part of it ever 
gave me Leave fo much as to hope for. 

Any one would think, that in this State of com- 
plicated good Fortune, I was pad running any 
more Hazards i and fo indeed I had been^ if other 

Cir- 



Gircumftances had coneurr'd, but I was inured to 
a wandring Life, had no Family, not many Rela- 
tions, nor however rich had Icontraded much Ac- 
quaintance ; and though I had fold my Eilate in 
the Brafils, yet I could not keep the Country out 
oi my Head, and had a great Mind to be upon 
the Wing again, efpecialiy 1 could not rehit the 
flrong Inclination 1 had to fee my Ifland, and to 
know if the poor Spaniards were in Benig there, 
and how the Rogues I left there had ufed them. 

My true Friend, the Widow, earneilly difwa- 
ded me from it, and fo far prevaird with me, that 
for almoU: (even Years fhe prevented my running 
abroad; during which Time, I took- rny two 
Kephews, the Children of one of my Brothers, 
into my Care : The eldefl having fomethmg of 
his own, I bred up as a Gentleman, and gave 
him a Settlement of fome Addition to his Eitate, 
after my Dcceaie ; the other I put out to a Cap- 
tain of a Ship ; and after five Years, finding him 
a feniible bold, enterprizing young Fellow, I put 
him into a good Ship, and ient him to Sea : 
And this young Fellow afterwards drew me in, as 
old as I was, to farther Adventures myfelf 

.In the mean time, I in part fettled myfelf here; 
for tirft of ail I marry ""d, and that not either to my 
Difadvantas^e or DiiTaiisfaftion, and had three 
Children, two Sons and one Daughter : But my 
Wife dying, and my Nephew coming Home with 
good Succels (rom a Voyage to Spain, my Inclina- 
tion to go abroad, and his Importunity, prevailed 
and t-^ngag 'd me to go in his Sh jp, as a private Tra- 
der to tb.e E(fi:-Lidies : This wis \\\ the Year 1 6^ a. 

In this Voyaije 1 vifitedmynew Colony in the 
Ifk-.nd, faw my Succeffors the Spaniards^ had the 
wliole Story of their Lives, and of the Villains I 
left tlicre-, how at iirilrhey inKjltcd the poor Spa- 
niards 



[ 3^3 ] 

niards, how they afterwards agreed, diTagreed, n- 
nited, feparated, and how at lafl; the Spaniards' 
were obliged to ufe Violence .with them, how they 
were fubjtdcd ro the Spania)'dsy how honeflly the 
Spaniards us'd them ; a Hiftory, if it were enter'd 
into, as full ot Variety and wonderful Accidents, 
as my own Part, particularly alfo as to their Bat- 
tles with x.h^ Carribeans y who landed feveral timies 
upon the liland, and as to the Improvement they 
made upon the Ifland iz felf, and how five of 
them made an Attempt upon the main Land, 
and brought away eleven Men and five Women 
Prifoners, by which, at my coming, I found about 
twenty young Children on the Ifland. 

Here I liay'd about 20 Days, left them Sup- 
plies of all neceflary things, and particularly of 
Arms, Powder, Shot, Cloaths, Tools, and two 
Workmen, which I brought from England with 
me, "Viz.. a Carpenter and a Smith. 

Befides this, I fhar'd the Ifland into Parts with 
'em, referv'd to my felf the Property of the whole, 
but gave them fuch Parts refpedively as they a- 
greed on ; and having fettled all things with them, 
snd engag'd them not to leave the Place, I left 
them there. 

From thence I touched at the 5r^/f, from whence 
I fent a Bark, which I bought there, with more 
People to the Ifland, and in it, befides other Sup- 
plies, I fent feven Women, being fuch as I found 
proper for Service, or for Wives to fuch as would 
take them : As to the English Men, I promised them 
to fend them fome Women from England, with a 
good Cargoe of NecefTaries, if they would apply 
themfelves to Planting, which I afterwards per- 
form'd. And the Fellows proved very honeft 
and AWi^tX'X after they were mafler^'d, and had 
their Properties fet apart for them. I fent them 

alfo 



[3^4] 

alto from the Bra/ds five Cows, three of them be- 
ing big wirh Calf, fome Sheep, and fome Hogs, 
which, when I came again, were confiderably ea- 
creas'd. 

But all thefe Things, with an Account how 300 
Carribhes came and invaded them, and ruin'd their 
Plantations, and how they fought with that whole 
Number twice, and were at firfl defeated, and 
three of them kill'd j but at la/la Storm deflro} ing 
their Enemies Canoes, they famifh'd or dcftroy a 
almofl all the reft, and renew'd and recovered the 
PoflelTion of their Plantation, and Hill iiv'd upon 
the Ifland. 

All thefe Things, with fome very furprizing In- 
cidents in fome new Adventures of my own, for* 
ten Years more, I may perhaps give a farther Ac- 
count cf hereafter. 



FINIS. 





BOO KS Printed for, and Sold by 
William Taylor, at the Signof 
the Ship m Patcr-Nofter-Row. 

I. A Neat, Beautiful, and Correft Edition of P/«?^n^'s 
jTjL Morals, in 5 Vol. iimo. Tranflated from the 

Greik by feveral Hands. 

2. Ow/s Metamorphoflsln 2 Vol. in irmo. Adorned 

with Cuts. 

Epiftle in iimo. with Cuts. 

4. Poems by the Author of the Choice, iimo* 

5. Poems by the Lady Wlnchelfeay 8(?. 

6. Poems by Mr. Drj^ien, 6 Vol. izmo. 

7. Mr. Congreve's PJays and Poems, 3 Vol. 8<?. 

8. The New Atlantis in 2 Vol. izmo. 

9. Dr.G/??-//?'s Difpenfatory. With Cuts, and a com- 
pleat Key, l^mo. 

10. Mr. Manwarlng's Works in Profe and Vcrfe, 80. 

1 1. The Adventures of Telemachmin 2 Vol. iimoy with 
Cuts. 

12. £je^'V/<f of the Confolation of Phllofophy, iimo. 

13. Byfe's Art of En^b'/I) Poetry in 4 Vol. being a com- 
pleat Common Place Book to the V/orks of our moft e- 
minent Englifl) Poets. Continued to the Year 1718. 

14. Memoirs of the Court of England^ by Count D^ 
Gr;immont. The fecond Edition, with a compleat Key, 

I?. Mv. Lax0r€?ice Er/r'itr/s Tranflatlon of Phutuf^s Co- 
medies, with Critical Remarks, mmo. 

16. Lord Clarendons Hlftory in 6 Vol. in Large and 
Small Paper. 

T7. The Adventures of Theagines &nd Ch^rrdi fi Romana, 
Done from the Greek of HsHadorus, in 2 Pocket Volumes. 

18. The 



Books Printed for W. Taylor. 

i8. The Religious Philofopber in 2 Vol. The third and 
laft Vol. is in the Prels, andwill fliortly be publifhed. 

19. The Annals ot' King Geor^^e in 4 Vol. 8t?. 

20. Dr. Dcfa^ulier's Hydrofcaticks, So* 

21. Biihop &ye?v4^-^'s Thoughts in 2 Volumes ^0. with 
Cuts. 

22.- The fame in i 2pko» 

23. His Sermons in 12 Vol. 8(7. 

24.. His Thefaurus in 4 Vol. ^0, 

25. -His NecefTity oi" Fublick Prayer and frequent 

Communion. 

26^ ; — His Expcfition of the 39 Articles of" the Church 

27. Mr. Spnchs\ Sick Man Vifited. Third Editi- 
on, Sx/c. 

28. D^^Woodward'sYdix Warnings to a Careleis World. 
Adorned with Cuts. 

29. Dr. Barrow of Contentiiient, Patience, and Refigna- 
tion to the Divine Will, 12^770, 

30. Advice to a Son, direfting hew to demean himfelf in 
the moft important Affairs of Lite, \2mo. 

31. Mr. Kettelvocirs Works in^2 Vol. in Folio.. 

32. BiHiop TaWi'r's Holy Living and Dying, So. 
33. His Golden Grove, i2;;7c-. 

g^. His Life otCbrifl will Ihortly be put to thePrefs 

with new Cuts, defigned by the beil Mailers;, Folio. 
3$. Bifhop P^f rice's Devotions, 12;970. 
36. His Chriliian Sacrifice, i2mo. 

37. ArchbiihopcfG2w/:/-ay, of the Exifterice of God, ^cf 

So. 

38. Mr. fr/Ij/yi'wz's Theological and Mathematical Vforks. 

39. Dr. :^i;2ry s Compleat Eni^lijb Difpeniatory, 0^. 

40. Cdto^ a Tragedy. The Ninth Edition. By Mr. Jddifcn^ 

12f770. 

41. The Diftreffed Mother, a Tragedy. By yiv. Phillip s, 

\2mo. 

42. The Carelefs Husband, a Comedy. By Mr. Cihb^r^ 

\7mo. 

43. The Juftice of Peace's r^^r/e Mectuv^ \2mo, 

44. Militia-Law. Being an Abilraa of all the AAs of Par- 
liament relating to the Militia, 'i6c. \2-f77C. 

A,<^. Thecompleat Sportlman, with all the Laws relating 
to the Game. 

46. The Country Gentleman's V adz Mi cum ^ \2mo. 

47. The Turkilh Spy continued, Vol. I. 

4SI Com- 



at the Ship /-;7 Pater- Noftcr-Row, 

4S. Compieat Hiftory g£ Witchcraft, Magick and So- 
eery, 12^0. 

49. Logick, orrhe Art of Thinking, izmo. 

50. Luwrences Ckrgy-men and Gentle njen's Kecrea- 
, tion, ^0. : ' ' ^- :■.. lu 

51. The Lady's Recreation in Gardening. By C. Evdln, 
Ei'q; So. 

52. D/T^^^/f's Monafticon Angllcanum. Tranflated in- 
to Engl/jh, with above loo. Cuts, cF Cathedrals, Abbies, 
Monafterles, and other Religious Houfes. Foiie. 

S3' Theatrum Scotia. Containing Profpefts of the moft 
coniiderable Vlaces in Scotland^ with about 60 Cop|)er 
Tlates. Folio. 

H- Pomponii Melae, de fitu Orbis Libri tres. 

* Belgium Britannicum. ^ucfore Gtu'l. Mufgrave, F. R.S. 

55. Medulla Hift. Anglicans. Begun by Dr. Howei, 
and continued to this Time, by an able Hand. Adorn'd 
with Cuts of the moll: remarkable Incidents. 

56. The genuine Works of Sz.Cypriany with his Life. 
T ranilaied into Engl/'Jh by Dr. Marjl^aL Folio. 

57. Memoirs of the Affairs of Ireland from the Refto- 
ration. 

58. Memoirs of the Affairs of Scotland. 

S^. Revolutions o£ Sxpcde?!. By the Abbot Fertot. 
6c. Kerfey's Diitionarium Anglo Britannicum. 

61. /^/^^^r^'sArithmetick, with a Supplement. ByG. 
Shelly. 

62. Love's whole Art of Surveying and Meafuring Land. 

63. 5iP//if'sMircellanies,in Profe and Verfe. 

/^4. A Treatife of both Globes. To which is added, 
A Geographical Defcription of our Earth, nmo. 

65. Lex Mercatori : Or, The La.ws relating to Com- 
merce. 

66. Martini Defcription of the Weflern Iflands of Scot^ 
land. 

67. Wits Common-wealth, for the Ufe of Schools. 
£)8. Afhmole's Order of the Garter Abridged, with Cuts. 

69. The Preient State of France, in 2 Vol. in i^mo. 

70. Epiftolae Abelardi &: Heloiffse, 80. 

71. Georgli Buchanani Epiftolas, 80. 

72. Gulielmi Nicholfii HiftoriJE Sacrse, izmo. 

73. Analyfis^quationum. hn^oxQ J.Ra^hfon, M.A. 
F. R. S. 

>74 — Deraonftration de Deo, ^b eodem Auftore. 

,75. De Chrifto Imitai^do, Auftore Thoma Kempifio, 
cum Fj^uris ^neiij. 

75. Ph'hWs 



£ooks Printed^ d^:. 

^6. PhlUps's World of Words, or univerfal Englijh DI- 
ftionary. 

77. The fame in O^avo, Abridged and Improved. 

By 7. Kerfey. 

78. Dr, Salmon's Englijh Herbal, or Hiftory oi Plants, 
adorned with Figures of the mofl: confidcrable Species, 
reprefenting to the Life the true Forms of thofe feveral 
Plants, in an Alphabetical Order. 

79. Mr. BayWs large Hiftorical and Critical Diftiona- 
ry, in 4 Volumes. 

80. Bilhop Hopkins'' sV^oxkSy collefted into one Volume. 

81. The Works of the Reverend and Learned Dr.lfaac 
Barrow, publilhedby Archbllhop Tilhtfon. 

82. A Report from the Committee of Secrecy, appoin- 
ted by Order of the Houfe of Commons, to examine leve- 
tal Books and Papers laid before the Houfe, relating to 
the late Negotiations of Peace and Commerce, &c. Re- 
ported on the 9th of June, 17 15. By the Right Honou- 
rable Robert Walpole, Elc]; Chairmen of the faid Commir- 
te. Publiihed by Order of the Houfe of Commons, 
With an Appendix of Original Papers. 

83. Sacred Geography, contained in (5 Maps. i. Shew- 
ing the Situation of Paradife, and the Country inhabited 
by the Patriarchs. 2. The peopling of the World by the 
Sons o£ Noah, and the ifraelites journeying in the VViJder- 
nefs. 3. A Plan of the City oijerufalem, with a Vi-w of 
Solomons Temple, and all the facred Utenfils therein.^ 4, 
The Holy Land divided into the twelve Tribes of Israel, 
In which is cxaftly traced our Saviour's Travels. 5. The 
Land o£ Canaan. 6. The Travels of St. Paul, and the reft 
of the Apoftles. The whole very ufeful for the better 
underftanding the Holy Bible. 

84. Fitruvita Britaiinicui : Or, The Eritijh Architeft, con- 
taining the Plans, Elevations and Seftionsof the Regular 
Buildings, both publick and private, in Great Britain, with 
Variety of new Deiigns, in ico large Folio Plate:,, en- 
graven by the beft Hands. In 2 Volumes. All delinea- 
ted from the Buildings, or from the Original Drawings 
of the Architefts, who have moft generouOy promoted 
this ufeful Work. By Mr. Ca?/jpbeL 

85. Pietas Londi7ien[is : Or, The Prefent Ecclefiaftical 
State of London. By James Pat erf on, A.M. 

85. The Peerage of England : Or, An Hiftorical and 
Genealogical Account of the prefent Nobility. 

87. An Enquiry into the Nature and Place of Heil. By 
Tobias Svfinden. 





i v%%. 



■*>•< 



sstiasmmsi 



mm 



1 



