Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was prcscrvod for gcncrations on library shclvcs bcforc it was carcfully scannod by Google as pari of a projcct 

to make the world's books discoverablc online. 

It has survived long enough for the Copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to Copyright or whose legal Copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, cultuie and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this flle - a reminder of this book's long journcy from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken Steps to 
prcvcnt abuse by commercial parties, including placing lechnical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use ofthefiles We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's System: If you are conducting research on machinc 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a laige amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encouragc the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each flle is essential for informingpcoplcabout this projcct and hclping them lind 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are lesponsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in Copyright varies from country to country, and we can'l offer guidance on whether any speciflc use of 
any speciflc book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search mcans it can bc used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

Äbout Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organizc the world's Information and to make it univcrsally accessible and uscful. Google Book Search hclps rcadcrs 
discover the world's books while hclping authors and publishers rcach ncw audicnccs. You can search through the füll icxi of ihis book on the web 

at |http: //books. google .com/l 



1 l^^XS.X^^.^O 




HARVARD 
COLLEGE 
LIBRARY 



THE 



LIFE AND ADVENTÜRES 



OF 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



WITH 



A BI06RAPHICAL SK£TCH OF DE FOE, 



W RITTEN EXPRESSLY FOR THI8 EDITION, 



AND ILLÜSTRATIONS FROM ORIGINAL DESIGNS. 



IN TWO VOLUMES. 
VOL. II. 



LONDON: 
COCHRANE AND PICKSRS6ILL, 

11, WATERLOO place; 

AND J. ANDREWS, ier, NEW BOND STREET. 

1831. 



]i.Hi2. ^^Ao 



^ 



'HARVARD 

UNIVERSITYi 
LIBRARY 



PRINTED BY A. J. VALPY, 
RED LXON COURTy FLEET STREET. 



l 



\/. 









ILLUSTRATIONS 



TO THE SECOND VOJ.ÜME. 



Page 
1. Frontispi£C£. — Crusoe and Friday's retum to the Island. 

'2. Interview of Friday's father with the captives * • 72 



3. Three sleeping saVages discovered by the Spaniards 

4. Panic of the savages at the fire of the Englishmeu 

5. Conversion of Atkins's wife to Christianity . 

6. Trading with the natives of the island of Madagascar 

7. Comical rencontre with the Cochin Chinese 

8. Representation of the greatXartaridol . 



79 
83 
137 
179 
219 
265 



* No fiction in any language was ever better 8um>orted than the 
AovENTURES of RoBiNSON Crusob.' — Dr. Blair. 



' Robinson Crusob is the first book I ever read with plea- 
sure ', and t believe every boy in Europe might say tbe same.' — 

Marmontel. 

* Was there ever any tbing written by mere man» that was 
wisbed longer by its readers, excepting Don Quixote, Robinson 
Crusoe, and the Pilorim's Progress?' — Dr. Johnson. 

' De Foe's style is every where beautiful, but piain and 
homely. Robinson Crusoe is delightinl to all ranks and classes, 
and worthy to find a shelf in the libraries of the wealthiest and 
the most learned.'-r-CnARLEs Lamb. ^ 

* If it be inquired by what charm it is that these Surprising 
Adventvres should have instantly pleased, and always pleased, 
it will be found that few books have ever so naturally mingled 
amusement with instruction.' — Chalhers. 

' Society is for ever indebted to the memory of De Foe, for bis 
production of a work« in which the ways of Providence are 
simply and pleasingly vindicated, and a lasting and useful moral 
is conveyed through the Channel of an interesting and delightful 
Story.' — Sir Walter Scott. 

* Robinson Crusoe must be allowed, by the most rigid mo- 
ralist, to be one of those novels which one may read, not only 
with pleasure, but also with profit. It breathes throughout a 
spirit of piety and benevolence ; it sets in a very striking light 
the importance of the mechanic arts, which they, who know no# 
what it is to be without them, are so apt to undervalue ; and it 
fixes in the mind a lively ideaof the horrors of solitude, and, 
consequently, of the sweets of social life, and of the blessings we 
derive from conversation and mutual aid.'— Dr. Beattie. 



THE 



LIFE AND ADVENTURES 



OF 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 



That homely proverb used on so many occasions in 
England, viz. <' That what is bred in the bone will 
not go out of the flesh/' was never more verified than 
in he story of my life. Any one would think, that 
aftcr thirty-five yeare' affliction, and a variety of un- 
happy circumstances, which few men, if any, ever 
went through before, and after near seven years of 
peace and enjoyment in the fulness of all things, 
grown old, and when, if ever, it might be allowed me 
to haye had experience of every state of middle life, 
and to know which was most adapted to make a man 
completely happy ; I say, after all this, any one 
wonld have thought that the native propensity to 
rambling, of which I gave an account in my first 
fietting out in the world to have been so predominant 
in my thoughts, should be worn out, the volatile part 
be fuUy evacuated, or at least Condensed, and I 
might, at sixty-one years of age, haye be^ti ^ Vv^^ 

VOL. II. K 



< 



2 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

inclined to stay at home/and have done ventoring life 
and fortune any more. 

Nay, farther, the common motive of foreign ad- 
ventures was taken away in me ; for I had no fortune 
to make ; I had nothing to seek : if I had gained ten 
thousand pounds, I had been no richer; for I had 
already sumcieat for me, and for those to whom I had 
to leave it ; and that I had was visibly increasing ; 
for having.no great family, I could not spend the in- 
come of what I had, unless I would set up for an ex- 
tensive way of living, such as a great famity, servants, 
equipage, gaiety, and the like, which were things of 
which I had no notion or inclination to ; so that I 
had nothing indeed to do but to sit still, and fully 
enjoy what I had got, and see it increase daily on 
my hands. Yet all these things had no effect on me, 
or at least not enough to resist the strong inclination I 
had to go abroad again, which hung about me like a 
chronical distemper. In particular,.the desire of see- 
ing roy new plantation in the island, and the colony 
I left there, ran in my head continually. I dreamed 
of it all night, and my Imagination ran on it all day ; 
it was uppermost in all my thoughts ; and my fancy 
worked so steadily and strongly on it, that I talked of 
it in my sleep ; in short, nothing could remove it out 
of my mind : it even broke so violently into all my 
discourses, that it made my conversation tiresome, for 
I could talk of nothing eise ; all my discourse ran 
•into it, even to impertinence ; and I saw it in myself. 

I have often heard persons of good judgment say, 
that all the stir people make in the world about 
ghosts and apparitions, is owing to the strength.of 
imagination, and the powerful Operation of fancy in 
their minds ; that there is no such thing as a spirit 
appearing, or a ghost Walking, and the like : that 
people's poring anectionately on the past conversation 
of their deceased friends, so realizes it to them, that 
they are capable of fancying, on some extraordinary 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3 

circomstances, that they see them, talk to them, and 
are answered by them, when, io truth« there is no- . 
thing but shadow and vapour in the thing, and they 
really know nothing of the matter. 

For my part, I know not to this hour whether there 
are any such things as real apparitions, spectres, or 
Walking of peo^le after they are dead; or whether 
there b any thing in the stories they teil us of that 
kind, more than the product of vapours, sick minds, 
and Wanderin g fancies: but this I know, that my 
imagination worked up to such a height, and brought 
me into such excess of vapours, or what eise I may 
call it, that I actually supposed myself often on the 
spot, at my old Castle, behind the trees ; saw my old 
Spaniard, Friday's father, and the reprobate sailors I 
left on the island ; nay, I fancied I talked with them, 
and looked at them steadily, though I was broad 
awake, as at persons just before me ; and this I did 
tili I often frightened myself with the images my 
fancy represented to me. One time, in my sleep, I 
had tbe villany of the three pirate sailors so livelily 
related to me by the first Spaniard and Friday's father, 
that it was surprising; they told me how they bar- 
baroosly attempted to murder all the Spaniards, and 
that they set fire to the provisions they had laid up, 
on purpose to distress and starve them ; things that I 
had never heard of, and that indeed were never all of 
them true in fact ; but it was so warm in my imagina- 
tion, and so realized to me, that, to the hour I saw 
them, I could not be persuaded but that it was, or 
would be, true; also how 1 resented it, when the 
Spaniard complained to me ; and how I brought them 
to justice, tried them before me, and ordered them all 
three to be hanged. What there was really in this, 
»hall be seen in its place : for however I came to form 
such things in my dream, and what secret converse of 
spirits injected it, yet there was, I say, much of it 
true. I own, that this dream had nothing in it Ute- 



4 LIFE AND ADVENTURBS 

rally and specifically true ; but the general part was 
so true, the base villanous behaviour of these three 
hardened rogues was such, and had been so much 
worse than all I can describe, that the dneam had too 
much similitude of the fact ; and as I would after- 
wards haye punished them severely, so, if I had 
hanged them all, I had been much in the right, and 
even should have been justified both by the laws of 
God and man. But to feturix to my story. In this 
kind of temper I lived some years; I had no enjoy- 
ment of my life, no pleasant hours, no agreeable di- 
Version, but what had something or other of this in it ; 
so that my wife, who saw my mind wholly beut on it, 
told me very seriously one night, that she believed 
there was some secret powerful impulse of Providence 
on me, which had determined me to go thither again ; 
and that she found nothing hindered my going, but 
my being engaged to a wife and children. 8be told 
me, that it was true she could not think of parting 
with me ; but as she was assured, that if she were 
dead it would be the first thing I would do ; so, as it 
seemed to her that the thing was determined above, 
she would not be the only obstruction ; for, if I 
thought fit, and resolved to go — — Here she found 
me very inten t on her words, and that I looked very 
earnestly at her, so that it a little disordered her, and 
she stopped. I asked her why she did not go on, 
and say out what she was going to say ? But I per- 
ceived that her heart was too füll, and some tears 
stood in her eyes.- " Speak out, my dear," said I; 
*' are you willing I should go?" — ** No," says she, 
very affectionately, " I am far from willing ; but if 
you are resolved to go, rather than I would be the 
only hindrance, I will go with you : for though I 
think it a most preposterous thing for one of your 
years, and in your condition, yet, if it must be," said 
she, again weeping, ** I would not leave you ; for, if 
it be of Heaven^ you must do it ; there is no resisting 



OF 90BINS0N CRUSOE« 5 

it: and if Heaven make it ybur duty to go, he will 
also make it mine to go with you« or otherwise dis- 
pose of me, that I may not obstruct it." 

This a(fectionate behaviour of my wife's brought 
me a little out of the vapours, and I began to con-» 
sider what I waä doing; J corrected my wandering 
fancy, and began to argue with myself sedately, wha| 
business I had, after threescore years, and after such 
a life of tedious sufferings and disasters, and closed in 
so faappy and easy a manner ; I say, what business 
had 1 to rush into new.hazards, and put myself on 
adventures fit only for youth and poverty to run into ? 

With those thoughta I considered ipy new engage^ 
knent; that I had a wife, one child born, and my wife 
then great with child of another ; that { had all th^ 
World could give m^, and had no need to seek hazard 
for gain ; that I was declining in years, and ought.to 
think rather of leaving what I had gained, than of 
seeking to increase it; that as to what my wife had 
Said of its being an impulse fro^ Heaven, and that if: 
should be my duty to go, I had no notion of that : 
so, after many of these cpgitations, I struggled with 
the power of my imagination, reasoned myself out pf 
it, as I believe people may always do in iike cases if 
they.will ; and, in a word, I conquered it; composed 
myself with such arguments as occurred to my thoughts, 
and which my present condition furnished me plenti- 
fully with; and particularly, as the most effectual 
method, I resoivea to divert myself with other things, . 
and tö engage in some business that might effectually 
tie me up from any more excursions of this kind ; for 
I found that thing return on me chiefly when I was 
idle, and had nothing to do, nor any thing of moment 
immediately before me. To this purpose I bought a 
little farm in the county of Bedford, and resolved to 
remove myself thither. I had a little convenient house 
OB it ; and the land about it, I found, was capable of 
great improvement ; and it weiis lu^isi^ v«^")^ ^\ü>Xi^ v^ 



6 LI^E AND ADVENTURES 

my inclination, which delighted in cultivating, mä- 
naging, planting, and improving of land ;, and parti- 
cularly, being an Inland country, I was remöved from 
Converting among sailors, and things relating to the 
remote parts of the world. 

In a Word, I went down to my farm, settled my 
family, bought me ploughs, barrows, a cart, waggon, 
horses, cows, and sheep, and, setting seriously to 
work, became, in one half year, a mere country gen- 
tleman : my thöughts were entirely taken up in ma- 
naging my seryants, cultivating the groupd, enclosing, 
planting, &c. ; and I lived, as I thought, the most 
agreeable life that nature was capable of directing, or 
that a man always bred to misfortunes was capable of 
retreating to. 

I farmed on my own laqd ; I had no rent to pay, 
was limited by no articles; I could pull up or cut 
down as I pleased : what I planted was for myself, 
and what I improved was for my family ; and having 
thus left off the thöughts of wandering, I had not the 
least discomfort in any part of life as to this world. 
Now I thought indeed that I enjoyed the middle State 
of life which my father so earnestly recomme^ided 
to me, and lived a kind of heavenly life, something 
like what is described by the poet, on the subject of a 
country life — 

" Free from vices, free from care, 

Age has no pain, and youth no snare." 

But, in the middle of all this felicity,one blow from 
unseen Providence unhinged me at once ; and not 
only made ä breach on me inevitable and incurable, 
but drove me, by its consequences, into a deep re- 
lapse of the wandering disposition, which, as I may 
aay, being born in my very blood, soon recovered its 
hold of me, and, like the returns of a violent distem> 
per, came on with an irresistible force on me, so that 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 7 

nothing could make any more Impression on me. 
This blow was the loss of my wife. It is not my 
business here to write an elegy on my wife, give a 
character of her particular virtues, and make my court 
to the sex b^ the flattery of a funeral sermon. She 
was, in a few words, the stay of all my affairs, the cen- 
tre of all my enterprises, the engine that, by her pni- 
dence, redueed me to that happy compass I was in, 
firom the most extravagant and ruinous project that 
fluttered in my bead, as above, and did more to guide 
my rainbiing genius than a mother's tears, a father's 
Instructions, a friend's counsel, or all my own reason-^ 
ing powers, could do. I was happy in listening to 
her tears, and in being moved by her entreaties ; and 
to the last degree desolate and dislocated in the world 
by the loss of her. 

When she was gone, the world looked awkwardly 
round me. I was as much a stranger in it, in my 
thoughts, as I was in the Brazils, when I iirst went 
on shore there ; and as much alone, except as to the 
assistance of serrants, as I was in my island. I knew 
neither what to think nor what to do. I saw the 
World busy around me ; one part laboring for bread, 
another part squandering in vile excesses or empty 
pleasures, equally miserable, because the end they 
proposed still fled from them ; for the men of plea- 
sure every day surfeited of their vice, and heaped up 
work for sorrow and repentance ; and the men of la- 
bor spent their strength in daily struggling for bread 
to maintain the vital strength they labored with : so 
iiving in a daily circulation of sorrow, living but to 
work, and working but to live, as if daily bread were 
the only end of wearisome life, and a wearisome life the 
only occasion of daily bread. 

This put me in mind of the life I iived in my king« 
dorn, the island ; where I suffered no more com to 
grow, because I .did not want it ; and bred no more 
goatSy because I had no more use fot thföiSL\ n9VL^\% 



8 LIFB AND ADVENTURSS 

the money lay in the drawer tili it grew moul^y» taiA 
had sgarce the favor to be looked on in twenty yean. 

All these things, had I improved them as I ougfat 
to have done, and as reason and religion had dictated 
tome,.would have taught me to searclf farther thaa 
human enjoyments for a füll felicity ; and that there 
was sometfalng which certainly was the reason and 
end of life, superior to all these things, and wbiqh.was 
either to be possessed, or at least hoped for, on thitf 
side the grave. 

But my sage counsellor was gone; I was like a 
ship without a pilot, that could only run afore the 
wind : my thoughts ran all away again into the cid 
affair; my head was quite turned with the whimaics^ 
of foreign adventures ; and all the pleasant, innoceilt 
amusements of my farm, my garden, my cattle, and 
my family, which before entirely possessed me, were 
nothing to me, had no relish, and were like mu sie to 
one that has no ear, or food to one that has no taste ; 
in a Word, I resolved to leave off housekeeping, let 
my farm, and return to London ; and in a few months 
after I did so. . 

When I came to London, I was still as uneasy at 
I was before ; I had no relish for the place, no em«* 
ployment in it, nothing to do but to saunter about 
like an idle person, of whom it may be said he is per-^ 
fectly useless in God's creation, and it is not one 
farthing's matter to the rest of his kind whether he 
be dead or alive. This also was the thing which, of 
all circumstances of life, was the most my aversion, 
who had been all my days used to an active life ; and 
I would often say to myself, '* A State of idleness is 
the very dregs of life :" and indeed I thought I waft 
much more suitably employed when I was twenty-siz 
days making me a deal board. 

It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when 
any nephew, whom, as I have observed before, I had 
brought up to the sea, and had made. him conunander 



OF ROBINSON^ CRUSOB. 9 

of a ship, was come.home from a short voyage to Bil- 
boa, being the ürst he had made. He came to me, 
and told me that some merchants of his acquaintance 
had been proposing to him to go a voyage for them to 
the £ast Indies and to China, as private traders. — 
** And now, uncle," says he, ** if you will go to sea 
witfa me, I will engage to land you on your old 
habitation in the island ; for we are to touch at the 
Brazils/' 

Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a future 
State, and of the existence of an invisible world, than 
the concurrence of second causes with the ideas of 
things which we form in our minds, perfectly reserved, 
and not communicated to any in the world. 

My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper 
of Wandering was returned on me, and I knew nothing 
of what he had in his thought to say, when that very 
moming, before he came to me, I had, in a great deal 
of confusion of thought, and revolving every part of 
my cireumstances in my mind, come to this resolu- 
tion, viz. that I would go to Lisbon, and consult with 
my old sea-captain ; and so, if it was rational and 
practicable, I would go and see the island again, and 
see what was become of my people there. I had 
pleased myself with the thoughts of peopling the 
place, and carrying inhabitants from hende, getting a 
patent for the possession, and I knew not what^ 
wheo, in the middle of all this, -in comes my nephew» 
as I have said, with his.project of carrying me thither 
in bis way to the £ast Indies. 

I paused awhile at his words, and, looking steadily 
at him, " Whatdevil," said I, ** sent you on this un- 
lucky errand !'' My nephew stared, as if he had been 
frightened, at first; but perceiving that I was not 
much displeased with the proposal, he recovered him» 
seif. " I hope it may not be an unlucky proposal, 
Sir/' says he ; ''I dare say you would be pleased to 
aee .your new colony there^ where you Q\ie^ t^\^«^ 



10 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

with more felicity than most of your brother monarchs 
in the world." 

In a Word, the scheine hit so exactly with my tem- , 
per, that is to say, the prepossession I was under, and 
of which I have said so much, that I told him, in a 
few words, if he agreed with the merchants I would 
go with him : but I told him I would not promise'to 
go any farther than my own island. ** Why, Sir," 
says he, ** you don't want to be left there again, I 
hope ?" — " Why," said I, " cän yoü not take me up 
a^in on your return V He told me it would not be 
possible to do so ; that the merchants would never 
allow hiih to come that way with a laden ship of such 
Talue, it being a month's sail out of his way, and 
might be three or four. " Besides, Sir, if I should 
miscarry," said he, '* and not return at all, then you 
would be just reduced to the condition you were in 
before.*' 

This was very rational ; but we both found out a 
remedy for it; which was, to carry a framed sloop 
on board the ship, which being taken in pieces, and 
shipped on board the ship, might, by the help of somc 
carpenters, whom we agreed to carry with us, be set 
up again in the' island, aud finished, fit to go to sea, 
in a few days. 

I was not long resolving; for indeed the impor* 
tunities of my nephew joined so efFectually with my 
inclination, that nothing could oppose me ; on the 
other band, my wife being dead, 1 had nobody con- 
cerned themselves so much for me as to persuade me 
to one way or the other, except my ancient good 
friend the widow, who earnestly struggled with me 
to consider my years, my easy circumstances, and 
the needless hazards of a long voyage; and, above 
all, my young children. But it was all to no pur- 
pose ; — I had an irresistible desire to the voyage ; 
and I told her I thought there was something so un- 
common in the impressions I had on my mind for the 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 11 

voyage, that it would be a kind of resisting Provi- 
deDce if I should attempt to stay at home : after which 
she ceased her expostulations, and joined with me, not 
only in jnaking provision for my voyage, 1but also in 
settling my family affairs for my absence, and pro- 
viding for the education of my children. 

In Order to this, I made my will, and settied tbe 
estate I had in such a manner for my children, and 
placed in such hands, that I was perfectly easy and 
satisfied they would have justice done them, wbatever 
might befall me: and for their education, I left it 
wfaoUy to tbe widow, with a sufficient maintenance to 
herseif for her care : all which she richly deserved, 
for no mother.could have taken more care in their 
education, or understood it better : and as she lived 
tili I came home, I also lived to thank her for it. 

My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning 
of January, 1694-5; and I, with my man Friday, 
went on board in the Downs the 8th : having, besides 
that sloop which I mentioned above, a very consider- 
able cargo of all kinds tof necessary things for my co- 
lony; which, if I did not find in good condition, I 
resolved to leave so. 

First, I carried with me some servants, whom I 
purposed to place there as inhabitants, or at least to 
set on work there on my account, while I staid, and 
either to leave them there, or carry them forward, as 
they would appear willing ; particularly, I carried 
two carpenters, a smith, and a very handy ingenious 
fellow, who was a cooper by trade, and was also a 
general mechanic ; for he was dextrous at making 
wheels, and hand-mills to grind corn, was a good 
tamer, and a good pot maker; he also made any 
thing that was proper to make of earth, orof wood ; 
in a Word, we called him our Jack of all trades. With 
these I carried a tailor, who had offered himself to gt> 
a passenger to the £ast Indies with my nephew, but 
amrwardB consented to stay oa out üew ^W\2^v^^\ 



12 ' LIFB AND ADVENTURES 

and proved a most necessary händy fellow, as couM 
be desired, in many other businesses besides that of his 
trade : for, as 1 observed formerly, Necessity arms us 
for all employments. 

My cargQ, as near as I can recollect, for I have not 
kept account pf the particulars, consisted of a suffii» 
Gient quaatity of linen, and some English thin stufis, 
for clothing the Spaniards that I expected to find 
there; and enough of them, as, by my calculation, 
might comfortably supply them for seven years : if I 
remember right, the materials I carried for clothing 
them, with gloves, hats, shoes, stockings, and all such 
things as they could want for wearing, amounted to 
above two hundred pounds, including some beds, hed* 
ding, and househoid stufF, particularly kitchen-uten- 
sils, with pots, kettles, pewter, brass, <&c. and near a 
hundred pounds more in iron-work, nails, tools of 
every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every neces* 
sary thing I could think of. 

I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets, and 
fusees ; besides some pistols, a considerable quantity 
of shot of all sizes, three or four tons of lead, and two 
pieces of brass cannon ; and because I knew not what 
time and what extremities I was providing for, I car- 
ried ä hundred barreis of powder, besides swords, cut* 
l.asses, and the iron part of some pikes and halberts i 
so that, in short, we had a large magazine of all sorts 
of Stores: and I made my nephew carry two small 
quarter-deck gutis more than he wanted for his ship,- 
to leave behind if there was occasion ; that, when we 
came there, we might build a fort, and man it against 
all sorts of enemies : and, indeed, I at first thought 
there would be need enough for all, and much morei 
if we hoped to maintain our possession of the Island ; 
as shall be seen in the course of that story. 

I had not such bad luck in this voyage as I had 
been used to meet with ; and therefore shall have the 
less occasion to Interrupt the reader, who perbaps ma| 



09 ROBINSON CRVSO£« 13 

be impatient to hear how matters went with my colo- 
ny : yet some odd accidents, cross winds, and bad 
weatber, happened on this first setting out, which 
made the voyage longer tban I expected it at first : and 
I, who had never made but one voyage, viz. my first 
Toyage to Guinea, in wbicb I migbt be said to come 
back again as tbe voyage was at first designed, began 
to think the same ill täte attended me ; and that I was 
boni to be never contended with being on shore, and 
yet to be always unfortunate at sea. 

OoDtrary winds first put us to the northward, and 
we were obliged to put in at Galway, in Ireland» 
where we lay windbound two and twenty days ; but 
we had this satisfaction with the disaster, that provi- 
sions were here exceeding cheap, and in the utmost 
plenty ; so that while we lay here, we never touched 
tbe ship's stores, - but rather added to them. Here, 
also, I took in several live hogs, and two cows, with 
their calves ; which I resolved, if I had a good pas- 
nge, to put on shore in my Island ; but we found occa- 
sion to dispose otherwise of them. 

We set out on the 5th of February from Ireland, 
and had a very fair gale of wind for some days. As 
I remember, it might be about the 20th of February, 
in the evening late, when the mate, having the watch, 
came into the round-house, and told us he saw a flash 
of fire, and heard a gun fired ; and while he was telling 
US of it, a boy came in, and told us the boatswain 
heard another. This made us all run out on the quar- 
ter-deck, where for a while we heard nothing ; but in 
a few minutes we saw a very great light, aüd found 
that there was some very terrible fire at a distance : 
immediately we had recourse to our reckonings, in 
which we all agreed, that there could be no land that 
way in which the. fire showed itself, no, not for five 
hundred leagues, for it appeared at W.N.W. On 
this we concluded it nuist be jsome ship on fire at sea ; 



14 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

and as, by our heariag the noise of guns just before, 
we conduded that it could not be far otf, we stood 
directly towards it» and were presently satisfied we 
should discover it, because the farther we sailed» the 
greater the light appeared ; though, the weather being 
hazy, we could not perceive any thing but the light 
fbr a whiie. In about half an hour's sailing, the .wind 
being fair for us, though not much of it, and the wea- 
ther Clearing up a little, we could plainly discern that 
it was a great ship on fire, in the middle of the sea. 

I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, 
though not at all acquainted with the persons engaged 
in it : I presently recollected my former circumstan- 
ces, and in what condition I was In, when taken up* 
by the Portuguese captain ; and how much more de- 
plorable the circumstances of the poor creatures be- 
longing to that ship must be, if they had no other shtp 
in Company with them. On this, I immediately or- 
dered that five guns should be fired, one soon after 
another; that, if possible, we might give notice to 
them that there was help for them at band, and that 
they might endeavöur to save themselves in their 
bpat ; for though we could see the flames of the ship, 
yet they, it being night, could see nothing of us. 

We lay by some time on this, only driving as the 
burning ship drove, waiting for day light ; when, on a 
sudden, to our great terror, though we had reason to 
expect it, the ship blew up in the air; and immediate- 
ly, that is to say, in a few minutes, all the tire was 
out, that is to say, the rest of the ship sunk. This 
was a terrible and indeed an afflicting sight, for the 
sake of the poor men ; who, I concluded, must be 
either all destroyed in the ship, or be in the utmost 
distress in their boat, in the middle of the ocean ; 
which, at present, by reason it was dark, I couM not 
see. .However, to direct them as well as I could, I 
<;aused lights to be hung out in all . parts of the ship 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 15 

ivhere we could, and which we had lanthorns for, and 
kept firing guns all the night long ; letting them know^ 
by this, that there was a ship not far off. 

About eight o'clock in the morning, we discorered 
khe ship's boats by the help of our perspective-glasses ; 
found there were two of them, both thronged with 
people, and deep in the wäter. We perceived they 
rowed, the wind being against them ; that they saw 
our ship, and did their utmost to make us see them. 

We immediately spread our ancient, to let them 
know we saw them, and hung a waft out, as a signal 
for them to come on board ; and then made more sail, 
Standing directly to them. In iittle more than h9.1f an 
hour, we came up with them ; and, in a word, tpok 
them all in, being no less than sixty-four men, wo- 
men, and children ; for there were a great many pas- 
sengers. 

On the whole, we found it was a French merchant 
ship of three hundred tons, home-bound from Cfuebec, 
in the river of Canada. The master gave us a long 
account of the distress of his ship ; how the fire began 
in the steerage, by the negligence of the steersmaa ; 
but on his crying out for help, was, as every body 
thought, entirely put out ; but they soon found that 
8ome sparks of the first fire.had gotten into some part 
of the ship so difficult to come at, that they could not 
effectually quench it; and afterwards getting in be- 
tween the timbers, and within the ceiling of the ship, 
it proceeded into the hold, and mastered all the skill 
and all the application* they were able to exert. 

They had no more to do then but to get into their 
boats, which, to their great comfort, were pretty 
large; being their long-boat, and a great shalop, be- 
sides a small skiff, which was of no great service to 
them, other than to get some fresh water and provi- 
sions into her, after they had secured their lives from 
the üre. l'hey had, indeed, small hope of their liv€$ 
by getting into these boats, at that distance from any 



19 LIFE AND ADVENTIIRS& 

land ; önly, as they said well, that they were escaped 
from tbe fire, and a possibility that some ship migiit 
happen to be.at sea, and might take them in». They 
had sails, pars, and a compass ; and were preparing to 
make the best of their way back to Newfoundland, 
the wind blowing pretty fair, for it blew an easy gale 
at S.E. by £. They had as much provision andwa«» 
ter, as, with sparing it so äs to be next door to stanr- 
ing, might support them about twelve days ; in whlch, 
if they had no bad weather, and no contrary winds, 
the captain said he hoped he might get to the Banks 
of Newfoundland, and might perhaps take some fish, 
to sustain them tili they might go on shore. But 
there were so many chances against them in all these 
cases, such as stör ms, to overset and founder them ; 
rains and cold, to benumb and perish their limbs; 
contrary winds, to keep them out and starve them ; 
that it must have been next to miraculous if they had 
escaped. 

In the midst of their consternation, every one being 
hopeless and ready to despair, the captain, with tears 
in his eyes, told me they were on a sudden surprised 
with the joy of hearing a gun fire, and after that four 
more ; these were the five guns which I caused to be 
fired at first seeing the light. This revived their 
hearts, and gave them the notice, which, as above, I 
desired it should, yiz. that there was a ship at band for 
their help. It was on the hearing of these guns, that 
they took down their masts and sails ; the sound Com- 
ing from the wind ward, they resolved to lie by tili 
morning. Some time after this, hearing no more guns, 
they fired three muskets, one a considerable while 
after another ; but these, the wind being contrary, we 
never heard. 

Some time after that again, they were still more 
agreeably surprised with seeing our lights, and hearing 
the guns which, as I have said, I caused to be fired 
all Üie rest of the night : this set then to work with 



OF ROBINSON CRtJSOE. 17 

tfieir oars, to' keep their boats ahead; at least, that we 
nug^t the sooner come up with them ; amd» at last, to 
their inezpressible joy, they found we saw them. 

It is impossible for me to express the severai ges- 
turesy the stränge ecstacies, the variety of postures, 
which these poor deliyered people ran into, to express 
the joy of their souls at so unexpected a deliverance. 
Grief and fear are easiiy deschbed ; sigbs, tears, groans, 
and a very few motions of the head and hands, make 
up the sum of its yariety ; but an excess of joy, a sur- 
prise of joy, has a thousand extravagances in it : there 
were some in tears ; some raging and tearing them- 
selves, as if they had been in the greatest agonies of 
sorrow ; some stark raving, and downright lunatic ; 
some ran about the ship stamping with their feet, 
others wringing their hands ; some were dancing, some 
singing, some laughing, more crying; many quite 
damb, not able to speak a word ; others sick and vo- 
miting; several swooning, and ready to faint; and 
ä few were crossing themselves, and giving God 
thanks. 

I would not wrong them neither ; there might be 
many that were thankful afterwards, but the passiou 
was too strong for them at tirst, and they were not 
able to master it ; they were thrown iuto ecstasies aod 
a kind of phrenzy ; and it was but a yery few that 
were composed and serious in their joy. 

Perhaps, also, the case may haye some addition to 
it from the particular circumstance of that nation they 
belonged to; I mean the French, whose temper is 
allowed to be more yolatile, more passionate, and 
more sprightly, and their spirits more fluid, than in 
other nations. I am not philosopher enough to deter- 
mine the cause ; but nothing I had ever seen before 
came up to it. The ecstasies poor Friday, my trusty 
sayage. was in, when he found bis father in the boat, 
came the nearest to it ; and the surprise of the master 
and bis two companions, whom I delivered fcouv ih» 
VOL. Ji. • ^ 



18 LIFE A17D ADVENTVRES 

▼illains that set them on shore in the island, came n 
little WBiy towards it ; but nothing was to compare to 
this, either that I saw in Friday, or any where eise ix 
my life. 

It is further observable that these extravagances 
did not show themselves in that difFerent männer 1 
have mentioned in different persons only ; but all thc 
variety would appear, in a short succession of mo- 
ments, in one and the same person. A man that wc 
saw this minute dumb, and as it were stupid and con« 
founded, would the next minute be dancing and hal- 
looing like an antic ; and the next moment be tearing 
his hair, or pulling his clothes to pieces, and stamping 
them under his feet like a madman ; in a few moments 
after that, we would have him all in tears, then sick, 
swooning, and, had not immediate help been had, he 
would in a few moments have been dead ; and thus it 
was, not with one or two, or ten or twenty, but widi 
the greatest part of them ; and, if I remember right, 
our surgeon was obliged to let blood of about thirty oi 
them. 

There were two priests among them, one an old 
man, and the other a young man ; and that which wb8 
strängest was, the oldest man was the worst. As soon 
as he set bis foot on board our ship, and saw himseU 
9afe, he dropped down stone dead to all appearance ; 
not the least sign of life could be perceived in him 2 
our surgeon immediately applied proper remedies to 
recover him^ and was the only man in the ship that 
believed he was not dead. At length he opened a 
vein in his arm, having first chafed and rubbed the 
part so as to warm it as much as possible : on this the 
blood, which only dropped at first, flowing freely, in 
three minutes after the man opened his eyes ; and a 
quarter of an hour after that he spoke, grew better, 
and in a little time quite well. After the blood war 
stopped, he walked about; told us he was perfec^' 
KrUll; took a dram of cordial which the surgeon ga 



OF ROBIKSOK CRX3SOE. 19 

himy and was what we call come to himself. About 
a quarter of an hour after this, they came running into 
the cabin to the surgeon, who was bleeding a French 
woman that had fainted, and told him the priest was 
gooe stark mad. It seems he had begun to revolve 
the change of his circuinstances in his mind, and again 
this put him into an ecstasy ofjoy ; his spirits whirled 
about faster than the vessels could convey them, the 
blood grew hot and feverish, and the man was as üt 
for Bedlam as any creature that eyer was in it : the 
surgeon would not bieed him again in that condition, 
but gave him something to doze and put him to sleep, 
whichy after some time, operated on him, and he 
awoke next morning perfectly composed and well. 

The younger priest behaved with great command of 
his passions, and was really an example of a serious, 
well-governed mind : at his first Coming on board the 
ship, he threw himself flat on his face, prostrating him- 
self in thankfulness for his deliverance, in which I 
unhappily and unseasonably disturbed him, really 
thinkjng he had been in a swoon ; but he spoke 
calmly, thanked me, told me he was giving God 
thanks for his deliverance ; begged me to leave him a 
few moments, and that, next to his Maker, he would 
give me thanks also. 

I was heartily sorry that l disturbed him, and not 
onLy left him, but kept others from interrupting him 
also. He continued in that posture about three mi- 
iiutes, or little more, after I left him ; then came to 
me, as he had said he would, and, with a great deal 
of soriousness and affection, but with tears in his eye», 
thanked me, that had, under God, given him, and so 
many miserable creatures, their lives. I told him I 
had no room to move him to thank God for it, rather 
than me, for I had seen that he had done that al^ 
ready ; but, I added, that it was nothing but what 
reason and humanity dictated to all men, and that we 
liad as much reason as he to give thanka to God^ h^W^ 



20 LIFE ANDADVENTURES 

had blessed us so far, as to make us tbe Instruments of 
his niercy to so many of ,his creatures. 

After this, the young priest applied himself to his 
country-folks ; labored to conipose them ; persuaded, 
entreated, argued, reasoned with them, and did his 
utmost to keep them within the exercise of tbeir 
reason ; and with some he had suceess, though others 
were for a time out of all government of themselves. 

I cannot help committing this to writing, as per- 
haps it n^ay be useful to those into whose hands it 
may fall, for the guiding themselves in all the ex<^ 
travagances of their passions ; for if an excess of joy 
can carry men out to such a length beyond the reach of 
their reason, what will not the ex travagances of anger, 
rage, and a provoked mind, carry us to ? And, in- 
deed, here I saw reason for keeping an exceeding 
watch over our passions of every kind, as well 
those of joy and satisfaction, as those of sorrow and 
anger. 

We were something disordered by these extrava- 
gances among our new guests, for the first day ; but 
when they had been retired, lodgings provided for 
them as well as our ship would allow, and they had 
slept heartily, as most of them did, being fatigued and 
frightened — ^they were quite another sort of pepple the 
next day. 

Nothing of good manners, or civil , acknowledg- 
ments for the kindness shown them was wanting ;. the 
French, it is known, are naturally apt enough to ex- 
ceed that way. The captain and one of the priesU 
came to me the next day, and desired to speak with. 
me and my nephew : the Commander began to con- 
sult with US what should be done with them ; and, 
iirst, they told us that we had saved their lives, so all 
they had was little enough for a return to us for that 
Jcindness received. The captain said they had. saved 
some money, and some things of value, in their boats, 
Qatchjed hastily out of the flames; and if .we would «€*. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.' 21" 

cept it, they were ordered to make an offer of it all to 
US ; they only desired to be set on shore somewhere in 
cur way, where, if possible, they might get a passage 
to France. My nephew was for accepting their money 
at first Word, and to consider what to do with them 
afterwards ; but I oyer-ruled him in that part, for I 
knew what it was to be set on shore in a stränge 
country : and if the Portuguese captain that took me 
up at sea had served me so, and took all I had for my 
deliverance, I must have starved, or have been as 
much a slave at the Brazils as I had been at Barbary, 
the mere being sold to a Mahometan excepted : and 
perhaps a Portuguese is not a much better master than 
a Turk, if not, in some cases, much worse. 

I therefore told the French captain that we had 
taken them up in their distress, it was true, but that it 
was our duty to do so, as we were fellow-creatures ; 
and we would desire to be so delivered, if we were'in 
the like, or any other extremity ; that we had done 
nothing for th^m but what we believed they would 
haye done for us, if we had been in their case, and 
they in ours ; but that we took them up to save them^ 
not to plunder them ; and it would be a most bar- 
barous thing to take that little from them which they 
had saved out of the fire, and then set them ön shore 
and leave them ; that this would be first to save them 
from death, and then kill them ourselves ; save them 
from drowning, and abandon them to starving ; and 
therefore I would not let the least thing be taken 
(rem them. As to setting them on shore, I told them, 
indeed, that was an exceeding difficulty to us, for that 
the ship was bound to the Fast Indies ; and though 
we were driven out of our course to the ^estward ä 
very great way, and perhaps were directed by Heaven 
on'purpose for their deliverance, yet it was impossible 
for US wilfully to change our voyage on their parti-» 
cular aecount ; nor could my nephew, the captain, 
amtwer it to the freighters, with whom he was UAnd^x 



22 LIFE AND ADVENTURBS 

charter-party to pursue bis voyage by the way of 
Brazil : and all I knew we could do for tbem, was to 
put ourselves in tbe way of meeting with other ships 
homeward-bound from tbe West Indies, and get them 
a passage, if possible, to England or Prance. 

The first part of tbe proposal was so generous and 
kind. tbey could not but be very thankful for it ; but 
tbey were in a very great consternation, especially the 
passengers, at the notion of being carried away to the 
jBast Indies : they then entreated me, that seeing I 
was driven so far to the westward before I met'with 
them, I would at least keep on the same course to the 
Banks of Newfoundland, where it was probable I 
might meet with some ship or sloop that they migbt 
hire to carry them back to Canada, from whence they 
came. 

I thought this was but a re^sonable request on their 
part, and therefore I inclined to agree to it; for, in- 
deed, I considered, that to carry this whole Company 
to the East Indies, would not only b6 an intolerable 
»everity on the poor people, but would be ruining our 
whole voyage, by devouring all our provisions ; so I 
thought it no breach of charter-party, but what an 
unforeseien accident made absolutely necessary to us, 
Änd in which no one coüld say we were to blame : for 
the laws of God and nature would have forbid that 
we should refuse to take up two boats füll of people 
in such a distressed condition ; and the nature of the 
thing, as well respecting ourselves as the poor people, 
obliged US to set them on shore somewhere or other 
for their deliverance : so I consented that we would 
carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather 
would permit ; and if not, that I would carry them to 
Martinico, in the West Indies. 

The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weath^er 
pretty good ; and as the winds had continued in the 
points between N.E. and S.E. a long time, we missed 
several opportunities of sending them to France ; Ibr 



OF ROBINSON CBUSOE. 23 

we met several ships bound to Europe, whereof two 
were. Freoch, from St. Christopher's ; but they bad 
been so long beating up agaiost the wind, that they 
durst take ia no passengers, for fear of wanting pro vi* 
sions for the voyage, as well for themselves as for those 
they should take in ; so we were obliged to go on. 
It was about a week after this that we made the 
Panks of !N'ewfoundland ; where, to shorten my story, 
we put all our French people on board a bark, which 
they hired at sea there, to put them on shore, and 
^fterwards to carry them to France, if they could get 
provisions to 'victual themselves with. When I say 
all the French went on shore, I should remember, that 
the-young priest I spoke of, hearing we were bound to 
the Fast Indies, desired to go the voyage with us, and 
to be set on shore on the coast of Coromandel ; which 
I readily agreed to, for I wonderfuUy liked the man, 
and had very good reason, as will appear afterwards ; 
also four of the seamen entered themselves on our ship, 
and proved very useful fellows. 

From hence we directed our course for the West 
Indies, steering away S. and S. by E. for about twenty 
days together, sometimes little or no wind at all ; 
when we met with another subject for our humanity 
to work on, almost as deplorable as that before. 

It was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes north, 
on the 19th day of March, 1694-5, when we spied a 
aail, our course S.£. and by S. : we soon perceived it 
was a large vessel, and that she bore up to us, but 
could not at first know what to make of her, tili, after 
Coming a little nearer, we found she had lost her 
main-topmast, foremast, and bowsprit ; and presently 
she firea a gun, as a signal of distress : the weather 
was pretty good, wind at N.N.W, a fresh gale, and 
we soon came to speak with her. 

We found her a ship of Bristol, bound home from 
Barbadoes, but had been blown out of the road at 
Barbadoes a few days before she was ready to sail, 



24 * LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

by a terrible hurricane/ while the captain and ' cbief 
male were botb gone on shore ; so tbat» besides the 
terror of the storm, they were in an indiffereat case 
for good artists to bring the ship home. They had 
been already nine weeks at sea, and had met with 
another terrible storm, after the hurricane was over, 
which had blown them quite out of their knowl^dge 
to the westward, and in which they lost their masts, 
as above. They told us they expected to have seen 
the Bahama islands, but were then driven away again 
to the south-east, by a strong gale of wind at N.N. W#- 
the same that blew now : and having no sails to work 
the ship with but a main-course, and a kind of square 
sail on a jury-foremast, which they had set up, they 
could not lie near the wind, but were endeavouring to 
stand away for the Canaries. 

But that which was worst of all was, that they were 
almost starved for want of provisions, besides the fa^- 
tigues they had undergone : their bread and flesh were 
quite gone ; they had not one ounce left in the ship, 
and had none for eleven days. The only relief they 
had was, their water was not all spent, and they had 
about half a barrel of flour left ; they had sugar 
enough ; some succades, or sweetmeats, they had at 
iirst, but they were devoured ; and they had seven 
casks of rum. 

There were a youth and bis mother, and a maid- 
seryant, on board, who were going passengers, and 
thinking the ship was ready to sail, unhappily came 
on board the evening before the hurricane began ; and 
having no provisions of their own left, they were in a 
more deplorable condition than the rest : for the sea- 
men, beingreduced to such an extreme necessity them«^ 
selves, had no compassion, we may be sure, for the ^ 
poor passengers ; and they were, indeed, in a condition 
that their misery is very hard to describe. 

I had perhaps not known this part, if my curiosity^» 
had not led me (the weather being fair, and the wind 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 25 

abated) to gö on board the ship. Tbe second mate, 
who, on tbisoccasion, commanded the ship, had been 
on board our ship, and he told me, inde^d, they had 
three passengers in the great cabin, that were in a de- 
plorable condition : " Nay/' says he, ** I believe they 
are dead, for I have heard nothing of them for above 
two days ; and I was afraid to inqüire after them," 
Said he, *' for I had nothing to relieve them with." 

We immediately applied ourselves to give them 
what relief we could spare ; and, indeed^ I had so far 
orer-niled things with my nephew^ that I would have 
Tietualled them, though we had gone away to Virgi- 
nia, or any other part of the coast of America, to 
have supplied ourselves ; but there was no necessity 
for that. 

But now they were in a new danger ; for they were 
afraid of eating too much, even of that little we gave 
them. The mate or Commander brought six men witb 
bim in bis boat ; but these poor wretehes looked like 
skeletons, and were so weak, that they could hardly 
Sit to their oars. The mate himself was very ill, and 
half staryed ; for he declared he had reserved nothing 
from the men, and went share and share alike with 
them in every bit they ate. 

I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat be* 
fore him immediately; ana he had not eaten three 
monthfuls before he began to be sick, and out of 
Order ; so he stopped awhile, and our surgeon mixed 
him up sometbing with some broth, which he said 
would be to. him both food and physic ; and after ha 
had taken it, he grew better. In the mean time I 
forgot not the men ; I ordered victuals to be. given 
them ; and the poor creatures rather devoured than ate 
it : they were so exceeding hungry, that they were in 
a kind ravenous, and had no command of them-; 
selves; and two of them ate with so much greedir 
«csBs, that they were in danger of their lives the next 
moming. . ^ 



$6 LIFE AND ADVENTURBS 

The sight of £hese people's distress was very moving 
to me, and brought to mind what I had a terriblte 
prospect of at my first Coming on shore in my island, 
where I had never the least mouthful of food, or any 
prospect of procuring any ; besides the hourly appre«- 
hensions I had of being made the food of other crea- 
tures. But all the white the mate was thus relating 
to me the miserable condition of the ship's Company, 
I could not put out of my thought the story he had told 
me of the three poor creatures in the great cabin, viz. 
the mother, her son, and the maid-servant, whom he 
had heard nothing of for two or three days, and whom, 
he seemed to confess, they had wholly neglected, their 
oyrn extremities being so great : by which I under- 
stood that they had really giyen them no food at 
all, and that therefore they must be perished, aud he 
all lying dead, perhaps, on the floor or deck of the 
cabin. 

As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called 
captain, on board with his men, to refresh them, so I 
also forgot not the starving crew that were left on 
board ; but ordered my own boat to go on board the 
ship, and, with roy mate and twelve men, to carry 
them a sack of bread, and four or five pieces of beef 
to boil. Our surgeon charged the men to cause the 
meat to be boiled while they staid, and to keep guard 
in the cöok-rooniy to prevent the men taking it to eat 
raw, or taking it out of the pot before it was well 
boiled, and then to give every man but a very little at 
a time : and by this caution he preserved the men, who 
would otherwise have killed themselves with that very 
food that was given them on purpose to save their 
liyes. 

At the same time I ordered the mate to go into the 
great cabin, and see what condition the poor passen« 
gei*s were in ; and if they were alive, to comfort them« 
and give them what refreshment was proper : and the 
surgeon gave hikn a large pitcher, with some ofthc 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 27 

prepared broth which he had given the mate that was 
on boardy and which he did not question would Fe- 
stere them gradually. 

I was not satisfied with this ; but, as I said above, 
having a great mind to see the scene of misery which I 
knew the ship itself would present me with, in a more 
lively manner than I could have it by report, I took 
the captain of the ship, as we now calleid him, with 
me, and went myself, a little after, in their boat. 

I found ihe poor men on board almost in a tumult^ 
to get the victuals out of the boiler before it was rea^ 
dy ; but my mate observed his Orders, and kept a 
good guard at the cook-room door ; and the man he 
placed there, after using all possible persuasionto have 
patience, kept them off by force : however, he caused 
some biscuit-cakes to be dipped in the pot, and sof- 
tened with the liquor of the meat, which they called 
brewis, and gave them every one some, to stay their 
stomachs, and told them it was for their own safety 
that he was obliged to give them but little at a time. 
But it was all in vain ; and had I not come on board, 
and their own Commander and officers with me, and 
with good words, and some threats also of giving them 
BO more, I believe they would have broken into tbe 
oook-room by force, and torn the meat out of the fur- 
nace ; for words are indeed of very smäll force to a 
hungry belly : however, we pacified them, and fed 
them gradually >and cautiously for the fitst, and the 
next time gave them more, and at last fiUed their bel- 
lies, and the men did well enough. 

But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin 
was of another nature, and far beyond the rest ; for 
as, first, the ship's Company had so little for them- 
selves, it was but too true that they had at first kept 
them very low, and at last totiaily neglected them ; so 
that for six or seven days it might be said they had 
feally no food at all, and for several days before very 
little. The poor mother, who, as the mAU x«^\V^« 



28 LFFB AND ADVENTÜRES 

was a woman of sense anÜ good breeding, had spared 
all she could so affectionately for her son, that at last 
she entirely suiik under it ; and when the mate of our 
sbip went in, she sat on the floor or deck, with her 
back up against the sides, between two chairs, whiöh 
were lashed fast, and her head sank between her 
Shoulders, like a eorpse, though not quite dead. My 
mate said all he could to revive and encourage her, 
and with a spoon put some broth into her mouth. She 
opened her lips, and lifted up one band, but could not 
speak ; yet she understood what he said, and made 
signs to him, intimating that it was too late for her, 
but poiuted to her child, as if she would haye said 
they shöuld take care of him. However, the mate, 
who was exceedingly moved with the sight, endea- 
Youred to get some of the broth into her mouth, and, 
as he said, got twp or three spoonfuls down ; though 
I question whether he could be sure of it or not : but 
it was too late, and she died the same night. 

The youth, who was preserved at the price of bis 
most affectionate mother's life, was not so far gone ; 
yet he lay in a cabin-bed, as one stretched out, with 
hardly any life left in him. He had a piece of an old 
giove in bis mouth, having eaten up the rest of it : 
however, being young, and having more strength than 
bis mother, the mate got something down bis throat, 
and he began sensibly to revive ; though by giving 
him, some time after, but two or three spoonfuls ex- 
traiördinary, he was very sick, and brought it up 
again. 

But the next care was the poor maid : she lay all 
along on the deck, hard by her mistress, and just like 
one that had fallen down with an apoplexy, and strug- 
gled for life. Her limbs were distorted ; one of her 
hands was clasped round the frame of a chair, and she 
gtiped it so hard, that we could not easily make her 
Jet it go : her other arm lay over her head, and her 
feet lay both together, set fast against the franie of the 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE; 29 

cabin- table : in short, she lay just like one in the 
agonies of death, and yet she was aiive too. 

The poor creature was not only starved with hunger, 
and terrified with the thoughts of death, but, as the 
men told us afterwards, was broken-hearted for he^ 
mistress, whom she saw dying for two or three days 
before, and whom she loved most tenderly. 

We knew not what to do.with this poor girl; for 
when our surgeon, who was a man of very greajt . 
knowledge and experience, had» with great appli- 
cation, recovered her as to life, he had her on his 
hands as to her senses; for she was little less than 
distracted for a considerable time after, as shall ap- 
pear presently. 

Whoever shall read these memorandums must be 
desired to consider that visits at sea are not like a 
journey into the country, where sometimes people stay 
a week or a fortnight at a place : onr business was lo 
relieye this distressed ship's crew, but not lie by for 
them ; and though they were willing to steer the same 
course with us for some days, yet we could carry no 
saily to keep pace with a ship that had no masts : how* 
ever, as their captain begged of us to help him to set 
up a main-topmast, and a kind of a topmast to his 
jury-foremast, we did, as it were, lie by him for three 
or four days ; and then having given him fiye barreis 
of beef, a barrel of pork, two hogsheads of biscuit, 
and a proportion of peas, flour, and what oth^r tbings 
we could spare; and taking three casks of sugar,' 
some mm, and some pieces-of-eight from them for 
satisfaction, we left them ; taking on board with us, 
at their own earnest request, the youth and the-iq^dy 
and all their goods. 

The young lad was about sev^nteen years of age ; 
a pretty, well-bred, modest, and sensible youth« 
greatly dejecjted with the loss of hiß mother, and, as 
it seems, had lost his father but a few months before, 
at Barbadoes : he begged of the surgeon to speak. to 



30 LIFB AND ADVEKTURES 

jüe to take him out of the ship ; for he said the cniel 
fellows had murdered his mother : and, indeed, so 
they had, that is to say, passively ; for they might 
have spared a small sustenance to the poor helpless 
i^idow, that might have preserved her life, though it 
had been but just enough to keep her alive : but 
hunger knows no friend, no relation, no justice^ no 
right ; and therefore is remorseless, and capable of no 
compassion. 

The surgeon told him how far we were going, and 
that it would carry him away from all his friends, and 
put him perhaps in as bad circqmstances almost as 
those we found him in, that is to say, starving in the 
World. He said it mattered not whither he went, if 
he was but delivered from the terrible crew that he was 
among ; that the captain (by which he meant me, for 
he could know nothing of my nephew) had saved his- 
life, and he was sure would not hurt him ; and as for 
the maid, he was sure, if she came to herseif, she 
would be yery thankful for it, let us carry them where 
we would. The surgeon represented the case so af- 
fectionately to me, that I yielded, and we took them 
both on board, with all their goods, except eleven 
hogsheads of sugar, which could not be removed or 
come at; and as the youth had a bill of lading for 
them, I made his Commander sign a writing, obligin|f 
himself to gö, as soon as he came to Bristol, to one 
Mr. Kogers, a merchant there, to whom the youth 
said be was related, and to deliver a letter which I 
wrote to him, and all the goods he had belonging to 
the deceased widow ; which I suppose was not done, 
for I could never leam that the ship came to Bristol, 
bat was, as is most probable, lost at sea ; being in so 
disabled a condition, and so far from any land, that 
1 am bf opinion the first storm she met with after« 
wards she might fouuder in the sea; for she was 
leaky, and had damage in her hold, when we met with 
her. 



• r 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. 31 

I was now in the latitude of 19 degrees 32 minutes, 
md had hitherto a tolerable voyage as to weather, 
though, at first, the winds had been contrary. I shalt 
trouble nobody with the little incidents of wind, wea-> 
ther, currents, &c. on the rest of our voyage ; but, to 
•horten my story, for the sake of what is to follow, 
ahall observe, that I came to my old habitation, the 
Island, on the lOth of April, 1695. It was with no 
small difficulty that I found the place ; for as I came 
to ity and went from it, before, on the south and east 
«de of the island, as Coming from the Brazils, so now, 
Coming in between the main and the island, and hav-^ 
ing no Chart for the coast, nor any landmark, 1 did 
not know it when I saw it, or know whether I saw it 
or not. 

We beat about a great while, and went on shore 
on several islands in the mouth of the great river 
Oronooque, but none for my purpose ; only this I 
learned by my coasting the shore, that I was under 
ooe great mistake before, viz. that the continent which 
1 thought I saw from the island I lived in, was really 
no continent, but a long island, or rather a ridge of 
Islands, reaching from one to the other side of the ex* 
tended mouth of that great river; and that the sa- 
vages who came to my island were not properly those 
which we call Caribbees, but islanders, and other 
barbarians of the same kind, who inhabited something 
nearer to our side than the rest. 

In Short, I visited several of these islands to no pur- 
pose ; some I found were inhabited, and some were 
not : on one of them I found some Spaniards, and 
thought they had lived there ; but speaking with them» 
found they had a sloop lay in a small creek hard by, 
mod came thither to make salt and to catch some pearl 
muscles, if they could ; but that they belonged to the 
Isle de Trinidad, which lay farther north, in the lati- 
tude of 10 and 11 degrees. 

Thus coasting from one island to another, sometituM 



82 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

with tfae ship, sometimes with the Frenchmen's sbal- 
lop, which we had found a convenient boat, and diere- 
fore kept her with their yery good will, at length I 
came fair ou the south side of my island, and presently 
knew the very countenance of the place : so I brougfat 
the ship safe to an anchor, broadside with the little 
creek where my old habitation was. 

As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday, 
and asked him if he knew where he was ; he looked 
about a little, and presently clapping his hands, eried, 
" O yes, O there, O yes, O there," pointing to onr 
old habitation, and feil dancing and capering like a 
inad fellow ; and I had much ado to keep him from 
jumping into the sea, to swim ashore to the place. 

** Well, Friday," says I, "do you think we shall 
find any body here or no .? and do you think we shall 
see your father ?" The fellow stood mute as a stock 
a good while, but when I named his father, the poor 
aifectionate creature looked dejected, and I could see 
the tears run down his face very plentifully. '' What 
18 the matter, Friday?" says I; ** are you troubled 
because you may see your father ?" — " No, no," says 
he, shaking his head, '' no see him more : no, neyer 
more see him again." — " Whyso," said I, " Fridayt 
how do you know thati" — ** O no, O no," says Fri- 
day ; " he long ago die, long ago ; he much old man." 
'* Well, well," says I, " Friday, you don't know ; but 
shall we see any one eise then ?" The fellow, it 
seems, had better eyes than I, and he points to the hill 
just above my old house ; and though we lay half a 
league ofF, he cries out, ** We see, we see, yes, yes, 
we see much man there, and there, and there." I 
looked, but I saw nobody, no, not with a perspective- 
glass, which was, I suppose, because I could not hit 
the place ; for the fellow was right, as I found on 
inquiry the next day ; and there were five or six men 
all together, who stood to look at the ship, not know« 
ing what to think, of us, . 



rOF ROBINSON. CRUSOB. 38^ 

-As SOOR as Friday told me he saw people, I caüsed 
the fddglish ancient to be spread, aod fired three guns. 
Ig give them notice we were friends ; and -in about 
half a quarter. of an hour after, we pereeived a smoke 
•risefrom the side of the creek;.so I immediately 
ordered the boat out, taking Friday with me; and 
haoging out a white flag, or a flag of truce, .1 went 
directly on shore, taking with me the young friar I 
mentioned, to whom I had told the story of my living 
there, and the manner of it, and eyery particular both 
of myself and those I left there ; and who was, on 
tfaat account, extremely desiroiis to go with me. We 
had besides about sixteen men well armed, if we had 
found. any new guests there which we did not know 
of ; but we had no need of these weapons. 

As we went on shore on the tide of flood, near high 
waler, we rowed directly into the creek ; and the first 
man I fixed my eye on was the Spaniard whose life 
I had saved, and whom I knew by bis face perfectly 
well : as to his habit, I shall describe it afterwards. 
I ordered nobody to go on shore at first but myself ; 
but there was no keeping Friday in the boat, for the 
affectionate creature had spied his father at a distance, 
a good way off the Spaniards, where indeed I saw 
noihing of him ; and if they had not let him go ashore, 
he would have jumped into the sea. He was no 
aooner on shore, but he flew away to his father, like 
an arrow out of a bow. It would have made any man 
shed tears, in spite of the firmest resolution, to have 
seeo the first transports of this poor fellow's joy when 
he came to his father : how he embraced him, kissed 
him, stroked his face, took him up in his arms, set 
him down on a tree, and lay down by him ; then stood 
and iooked at him, as any one would look at a stränge 
picture, for a quarter of an hour together ; then lay 
down on the ground, and stroked his legs, and kissed. 
thBm, and then got up again, and stared at him ; one 
WDold have thought the fellow bewitched. Butit 
VOL. lU c 



34 LIFE AND ADVENTURKS 

would have made a dog laugh the next day to see 
how hie passion ran out another way ; in tbe moming 
he walked alang the shore, to and again, with his 
fether several hours, always leading him by the hand 
as if he had been a lady ; and every now and then he 
would come to the boat to fetch something or other 
for him, either a lump of sugar, a dram, a biscait- 
cake, or something or other that was good. In tbe 
afternoon his frolics ran another way ; for then hs 
would set the old man down on the ground and danoe 
about him and make a thousand antic postures and 
gestures ; and all the while he did this, he would be 
talking to him, and telling him one story or other of 
his travels, and of what had happened to him abroad, 
to diyert him. In short, if the same fiiiai afiectiov 
was to be found in Christians to their parents in our 
part of the world, one would be tempted to say, theie 
would hardly have been any need of the fifith com- 
mandment. 

But this is a digression : I return to my landing. 
It would be needless to take notiee of all the ceremo* 
nies and civilities that the Spaniards receiTed me 
with. The first Spaniard, who, as I said, I knew 
▼ery well, was he whose life I had sared ; he came 
towards the boat, attended by one more, carrying a 
flag of truce also ; and he not only did not kaow me 
at tirst, but he had no thoughts, no notion of its heing 
me that was come, tili I spoke to him. ^ Seigttior/' 
said I, in Portuguese, *' do you not know me?^ At 
which he spoke not a word, but giving his moskei to 
the man that was with him, threw his arms abroad, 
saying something in Spanish that I did not perfectly 
hear, came forward and embraced me ; telling me he 
was inexcusable not to know that face again, that he 
had once seen as if an angel from heaven sent to aaye 
his life : he said abundance of very handsome thingsi 
as a well-bred Spaniard always knows how ; and thM 
beckoning to the pei-son that attended him^ bade 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE^ 95 

go mnd call out his oomrades. He then asked me if I 
wottld walk to my old habitation, where he would 
|i;ive me possession of my old house again, and where 
I aliouki see they had made but meaii improvements : 
so I walked along with him ; but, alas ! I could no 
mere find the place again than if I had never been 
tiMre ; for.they had ptanted so many trees, and plaeed 
tlMm in such a podtnre, so thick and close to one ano- 
tlier, and in ten years' time they were grown so big, 
thaty in short, the place was inaccessibie, except by 
such ¥ri]iding8 and • blind ways as they themselves 
enly, who made them, oould find. 

I asked them wbat put them on all these fortifica- 
tioiis : he told me I would say there was need enougb 
of ity when they had given me an aecount how they 
kad passed their time since their arriving in the island, 
espectally after they had the misfortune to find that 
I was gone. He told me he could not but have some 
satisfaction in my good fortune, when he heard that I 
was gone in a good shtp, and to my satisfaction ; and 
that he had oftentimes a streng persuasion that, one 
tune or other, he should see me again ; but nothing 
that ever befell him in his life, he said, was so sur- 
priaiBg and afllicting to him at first, as the disappoint- 
■MOt he was under when he came back to the island 
aad fofiod I was not there. 

As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that 
were left behind, and of whom, he said, he had a long 
alory to teil me, the Spaniards all thought themselves 
miieli better among the savages, only that their num- 
bar was so small : ** and," says he, '< had they been 
stroag enough, we had been all long ago in purga- 
tory ;'' aad with that he crossed himself on the breast. 
** Mt, Sir," says he", " I bope you will not be dis- 
filsMed wben I is^all teil you how, forced by neces- 
sity, we were obliged, for our own preservation, to dis- 
tbeHi, aod nake them oar sobjects, who would 
hl eontoit witk h&mg moderately our mast«T%) \s^\. 



36 LI^E AND ADVBNTURES 

would be cur murderers." I answered, I was hear- 
tily afraid of it when I left them there, and noihing 
troubled me at my parting from the island but that 
they were not come back , tbat I might haye put them 
in possession of eyery thing first, and left the others m 
a State of subjection, as they deserved; but if they 
had reduced them to it, I was very giad, and should 
be very far from finding any fault with it : for I koew 
they were a parcel of refractory, ungoverned viliaims 
and were fit for any manner of mischief. 

While I was thus saying this, the man came whom 
he had sent back, and with him eleven men more. la 
the dress they were in, it was impossible to guess what 
nation they were of; but he made all clear, both tp 
them and to me. First he turned to me, and pointing 
to them, Said, '* These, Sir, are some of the gentiemen 
who owe their lives to you ;" and then turning to 
them, and pointing to me, he let them koow who I 
was ; on which they all came up, one by ooe, not 88 
if they had been sailors and ordinary fellows, and the 
iike, but really as if they had been ambassadors of 
noblemen, and I a monarch or great conqueror : their 
behaviour was to the last degree obliging and cour- 
teous, and yet mixed with a manly, majestic gravity, 
which very well became them ; and, in short, they 
had so much more manners than I, that I scarce knew 
how to receive their civilities, much less how to retum 
them in kind. 

The history of their Coming to, and conduct in, the 
island, after my going away, is so very remarkable, 
and has so many incidents, which the former part of 
my relation will help to understand, and which will, 
in most of the particulars, refer to the account I have 
already given, that I cannot but commit them, with 
great delight, to the reading of those that come-^aftor 
me. 

I shalL no longer trouble the story with a relation in 
the first person> which will put me to thie expense ot 



OF ROSrNSON CRUSOE. 97 

tdn thousand said l*s, and said he^s, and ke told me's^ 
aod I told him's, and the like ; but I shall collect the 
hucts historically, as near as I can gatber them out of 
my memory, firom what they related to me, and from 
what I met with in my con versing with them and with 
the place. 

In Order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as 
I can, I must go back to the circumstances in which 
I left the island, and in which the persons were of 
whom I am to speak. And first, it is necessary to 
repeat, that I had sent away Friday's father and the . 
Spaniard (the two whose lives I had rescued from the 
•ayages) in a large canoe, to the main, as I then 
thought it, to fetch over the Spaniard's companions 
that he left behind him, in order to save them from 
the like calamity that he had been in, and in order to 
succoar them for the present ; and that, if possible, 
we might find together some way for our deliyerance 
afterwards. 

When I sent them away, I had no visible appear- 
ance of, or the least room to hope for, my own de- 
liveraiice, any more than I had twenty years before» 
nuch less had I any foreknowledge of what after- 
wards happened, I mean, of an English ship Coming 
OB shore there to fetch me off ; and it could not but 
be a yery great surprise to them, when they came 
back, not only to find that I was gone, but to find 
three strangers left on the spot, possessed of all that I 
had left behind me, which would otherwise have been 
their own. 

The first thing, however, which I inquired into, 
that I might begin where I left off, was of their own 
put; and I desired he would give me a particular 
aceouDt of his voyage back to his countrymen with 
the boat, whea I sent him to fetch them over. He 
toU me there was little variety in that part, for no- 
thiaf remarkahie happened to them on the way, hayjng 



^ UFB AND ADVBNTÜRKS 

had very calm weather, and a snnooth sea« As for bis 
couutrymen, it could not be doubted, he said, but that 
they were overjoyed to see him (it seems he was tbe 
principal man among them, the captain of the vessel 
they had been shipwrecked in haring been dead sonie 
time;) they were, he said, the more surprised to Siee 
him, because they knew that he was ledlen into the 
bands of the sayages, who, they were satisfied, wdMd 
devour him, as tbey did all the rest of their prisonlns] 
that when he told them the story of bis deüvemaee, 
and in what manner he was fnrnished for carrynig 
them away,. it was like a dream to them, and Ihehr 
astonishment, he said, was something like that of Jo» 
seph's brethren, when he told them who he was, and 
told them tbe story of bis exahation in Pbai^a<4i'ä 
court; but when he showed them the arms, the^pow« 
der, the ball, and provisions, that he brought them fer 
their journey or voyage, they were restored to them- 
selyes, took a just share of the joy of their deliwr«* 
ance, and immediately prepared to come away with 
him. 

Tlieir first bnsiness was to get canoes ; and im this 
they were obliged not to stick so much on the honest 
part of it, but to trespass on their friendly savages, 
and to borrow two large canoes, or periaguas, ob pre- 
tence of going out a fishing, or for pleasure. In these 
they Game away the next morning. It seems they 
wanted no time to get themselves ready ; for they haa 
90 bi^gage, neither clothes nor provisions, nor aiiy 
thing in the world but what they had on them, and a 
few roots to eat, of which they used to make their 
bread. 

They were in all three weeks absent ; and in that 
time, unluckily for them, I had the occasion offered 
for my escape, as I mentioned in my other part, aad 
to get oiF from the island, leaving three of the nesi 
impudent, bardened, ungovemed, disagreeabk YiUaii 



OP ROBINSON CRVSOB« 80 

b^iad me» tbat any man could desire to meet with; 
Ig the poor Spaniaids' great grief aad disappointment» 
jott may be sure. 

The only just tbing the rogues did was, that when 
Ihe Spaniards came asbore» they gave my letter to 
tbeoi» and gaye them provisions, and other relief, as I 
had ordered them to do ; also they gave them the long 
paper of direcUons wbich I had left with themy coo- 
taimng the particular methods which I took for ma« 
naf^og eyery part of my life there; the way bow.I 
baked my bread, bred up tame goats, and planted my 
com ; how I cured my grapes, made my pots, and, in 
m yrord, every thing I did; all this being written 
dowDy they gave to the Spaniards (two of them un« 
derstood English well enough :) nor did they refuse to 
acconmodate tbe Spaniards with any thing eise, for 
they agreed very well for some time. They gave them 
an equal admission into the house, or cave, and they 
began to live very sociably ; and the bead Spaniard, 
who had seen pretty much of my methods, and Fri-* 
day's father together, managed all their aifairs: hat 
at for tbe Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble 
about the Island, shpot parrots, and catch tortoises ; 
and when they came home at night» tbe Spaniards 
proYided their suppers for them. 

The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, 
had the others but let tbem alone ; which, bowever, 
they could not find in Uieir hearts to do long, but, like 
the dog in the manger, they would not eat themselres, 
neither would they let the others eat. The differences, 
Beyertheless, were at first but trivial, and such as are 
not wortb relating, but at last it broke out into open 
war : and it began with all the rudeness and insolence 
ihat can be imagined, without reason, without provo- 
oation, contrary to nature, and, indeed, to common 
•ease : and though, it is true, the first relation of it 
iMnie from tbe Spaniards themselvesy whom I may 



40' LIrä AND ADVKNtURES 

call the accusers, yet when I came to examine the fei-. 
lows, tfaey couid not deny a word of it. 

But before I come to the particulars of this part, I* 
must supply a defect in my fonner relation ; and thii 
was, I lorgot to set down, among the rest, that jnst tf 
we were weighing the anchor to set sail, there hap-'- 
pened a little quarrel on board of our sfaip, whicb I 
was once afraid would have turned to a second na» 
tiny ; nor was it appeased tili the captain, rousing np 
his courage, and taking us all to bis assistance, parted 
them by force, and making two of the most refradtorj 
fellows prisoners, he laid them in irons ; and as tber 
bad been active in the fonner disorders, and let hi\ 
some ugly, dangerous words, the second time Im 
threatened to carry them in irons to England, and 
have them hanged there for mutiny, and ninning away 
with the shjp. This, it seems, though the captain did 
not intend to do it, frightened some other men in the 
ship; and some of them had put it into the headsof 
the rest that the captain only gaye them good woidi 
for the present, tili they shouid come to some Engfieh 
port, and that then they shouid be all put into gaol, 
and tried for their lives. The mate got intelligence of 
this, and acquainted us with it ; on which it was de- 
sired that I, who still passed for a grcat man among 
them, shouid go down with the mate, and satisfy the 
men, and teil them that they might be assured, if they 
behayed well the rest of the voyage, all they bad 
done for the time past shouid be pardoned. So I 
went, and after passing my honor's word to them; 
they appeared easy, and the more so when I cauwd 
the two men that were in irons to be released and 
forgiven. 

But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for 
that night ; the wind also falling calm next moming; 
we found that our two men who had been laid in irons 
had stole each of them a musket, and some other wear- 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. . 41 

poos (what powder er shot they had we khew-not), 
and had taken the ship's pinnace, which was not yet 
kauled up» and run away with her to their companions 
ig roffuery on shore. As soon as we found this, I or- 
dored the long-boat on shore, with twelve men and 
the mate, and away they went to seek the rogues ; but 
they could neither find them or any of the rest, for 
they all fled into the woods when they saw the boat 
Qonung on shore. The mate was once resolved, in 
justice to their roguery, to have destroyed their plan- 
tations, burned all their household stuff and furnitore, 
and left them to shift without it ; but having no Or- 
ders, he let it all alone, left every thing as he found it, 
«nd bringing the pinnace away, came on board with- 
<wt them. These two men made their number five ; 
bgt the other three yillains were so much more wicked 
than they, that after they had been two or three days . 
together, they turned the two new-comers out of doors 
to «hift for themselves, and would have nothing to do 
witl^ them ; nor could they, for a good while, be per- 
maded to give them any food : as for the Spaniards, 
4^were not yet come. 

When the Spaniards came first on shore, the busi- 

aeas began to go forward : the Spaniards would have 

persuaded the three English brutes to have taken in 

i their countrymen again, that, as they said, they might 

I be all one mmily ; but they would not hear of it : so 

i the two poor fellows liyed by themselyes ; and finding 

aothing but industry and application would make 

them lire comfortably, they pitched their tents on the 

aoith shore of the island, but a little more to the west, 

to be out of danger of the savages, whoalways landed 

OB the east parts of the island. 

Here they built them two huts, one to lodge in, 
lad the other to lay up their magazines and storea 
ia ; and the Spaniards baying giyen them some com 
iar aeed, and especially some of the peas which I had 
kft.them, they dug, planted, and enclosed, aftB^: tbA 



4t LIFE AND ADVBNTURES 

pEttern I had sei for them all, and be^n to Im 
pretty weü. Their first crop of cora was. od tb^ 
grouiid ; and thoug;h it was but a little bit of laad 
which they had dug up at first, having had but a üttle 
time, yet it was enough to reiieve them, and find them 
with bread and other eatables ; and one of the fellow» 
being the cook's-mate of the ship, was very ready al 
making soup, puddings, and such other preparatioBS 
as the rice and the milk, and such little nesh as they 
got, furnished \nm to do. 

They were going on in this little thriving postine, 
when the three unnatural rogues, their own country« 
men too, in mere humour, and to insult them, ctme 
and bullied them, and told them the island was thein; 
that the governor, meaning me, had given them the 
possession of it, and nobody eise had any right to it ; 
and that they should build no houses on their groilnd» 
unless they would pay rent for them. 

The two men, thinking they were jesting at first, 
asked them to come in and sit down, and see what 
iine houses they were that they had built, and to teil 
them what rent they demanded ; and one of them mer- 
rily Said, if they were the ground landlords, he hoped, 
i£ they built tenements on their land, and made im- 
provements, they would, according to the custom of 
landlords, grant a long lease : and desired they would 
get a scrivener to draw the writin^» One of the tbree, 
cursing and raging, told them they should see they 
were not in jest ; and going to a little place at a dis- 
tance. where the honest men had made a fire to dress 
their victuals, he takes a firebrand, and claps it tothe 
outside of their hut, and very fairly set it on iure ; aad 
it would have been all burnt down in a few minutes, 
if one of the two had not run to the fellow, thrust Um 
away, and trod the iire out with bis feet, and that not 
without some difficulty too. 

The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's 
ihrusting bim away, that he returned on him, with a 



DP ROBINSON CRÜSOB. 48 

pole fae hftd in bis bandy and bad not tbe man aroided 
the blow very nimbly, and run into tbe but, he bad 
eaded bis days at once. His comrade, seeing tb« 
daager tbey were botb in, ran in after bim, and im- 
mediately Ütey came botb out witb tbeir muskets, and 
tbe man tbat was first Struck at witb the pote, knocked 
tbe fellow down that bad begun tbe quarrel witb the 
stock of bis mosket, and that before the otber two 
eoold come to belp bim; and then seeing the rest 
come at them, tbey stood togetber, and presenting tbe 
otb^ ends of tbeir pieces to them, bade them stand 
off. 

The others bad fire-arms witb them too; but one 
of the two honest men, bolder than bis comrade, and 
taade desperate by bis danger, told them, if tbey ofFered 
to moTe band or foot tbey were d^ad men, and boldly 
commanded them to lay down tbeir arms. They did 
noty indeed, lay down tbeir arms, bnt seeing bim so 
reaolate, it brougbt them to a parley, and they cön-> 
•ested to take tbeir wounded man with them and be 
goae; and, indeed, it seems tbe fellow was woonded 
suffciently witb tbe blow. However, they were much 
iB tbe wrong, since tbey bad the advantage, that they 
did aot disarm them eifectuaüy, as they might bare 
doae, and baye gone immediately to the Spaniards;, 
aad gl Ten them an account bow the rogues bad treated 
tbem; for ^be three villains studied notbing but re- 
▼enge, and every day gave them some intimation tbat 
they did so. 

Set not to crowd tbis part witb an account of tbe 
T part of tbe rogueries, such as treading down 
com ; shooting three young kids and a she-goat, 
wbich tbe poor men bad got to breed up tarne for theit 
Store ; and, in a word, plaguing them night and day 
n tbis manner ; it foreed the two men to such a de»- 
peration, tbat tbey resolved to fight tbem all three, 
ihm first time tbey bad a fair opportunity. In order 
ta tUsy tbey resolved to go to tbe Castle, as tbey called 



44 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

it (that was my old dwelling), ivhere the tfaree rogaes 
and the Spaniards all lived together at that time, in- 
t^nding to have a fair battle, and the Spaniards should 
stand by, to see fair play : so they got up in the mom- 
ing before day, and came to the place, and called the 
Englishmen by their names, telling a Spaniard that 
answered that they wanted to speak with them. 

It happened that the day before, two of the Spa- 
niards, . having been in the ivoods, had seen one of 
the two Englishmen, whom, for distinction, l called 
the honest men, and he had made a sad complaint 
to the Spaniards of the barbarous usage they*haa met 
with from their three countrymen, and how they had 
ruined their plantation, and destroyed their com that 
they had laboured so hard to bring forward, and killed 
the milch-goat and their three kidis, which was all they 
had provided for their sustenance ; and that if he and 
his friends, meaning the Spaniards, did not assist them 
again,» they should be starved. When the Spaniards 
came home at night, and they were all at supper, one 
of them took the freedom to reprove the three English- 
men, though in very gentle and mannerly terms, and 
asked them how they could be so cruel, they being 
harmless, inoffensive iellows ; that they were putting 
themselves in a way to subsist by their labour, and 
tliat it had cost them a ^reat deal of pains to bring 
things to such perfection as they were then in. 

One of the Englishmen retumed very briskly, 
'^ What had they to do there ? that they came on 
shore without leave ; and that they should not plant 
Qr build on the island ; it was none of their ground." 
— " Why," says the Spaniard, very calmly, ** Seig- 
nior Inglese, they must not starve." The English- 
man replied, like a rough-hewn tarpauling, << They. 

might starve and be d d ; they should not plant 

por build in that place." — ** But what must they do 
then, Seignior?" said the Spaniard. Another of the 
hrutes returned, '^ Do ? d n them, they should be 



' OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. 46 

servants, and werk for them," — " But hoir can yöu 
expect that of tbem V^ says the Spaniard ; '* they are 
not bought with your money : you have no right 16 
make them servants." The Englishman answered, 
" The Island was theirs; the govemor had given itto 
them, and no man had any thing tb do there but them- 
selyes;" and with that swore by bis Maker that they 
would go and burn all their new huts ; they should 
build none on their land. '' Why, Seignior," says 
the Spaniard, '' by the same rule, we must be your 
senrauts too." — ** Ay," says the bold dog, " and so 
you shall too, before we have done with you ;" mix* 
ing two or three G — d d — n me's in the proper inter- 
▼als of his Speech. The Spaniards only smiled at 
that, and made him no answer. However, this little 
diflcourse had heated them ; aud, starting up, one says 
to the other, I think it was he they called W ill At- 
kins, *' Come, Jack, let's go and have t'other brush 
with 'em ; we'll demolish their Castle, I'U . Warrant 
you ; they shall plant no colony in our dominions." 

On this- they went all trooping away, with every 
man a gun, a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some 
insolent things among themselves, of what they would 
do to the Spaniards too, when opportunity offered ; 
but the Spaniards, it seems, did not so perfectly un- 
derstand them as to know all the particulars, only 
that, in general, they threatened them hard for taking 
the two Englishmen's part. 

• Whither they went, or how they bestowed their 
time that evening, the Spaniards said they did not 
know ; but it seems they wandered about the country 
part of the night, and then lying down in the place 
which l used to call my bower, they were weary, and 
OYerslept themselves. The case was this; they had 
resolved to stay tili midnight, and so to take the two 
poor men when they were asleep, and, as they acknow- 
ledged afterwards, intended to set fire to their huts 



49 LIFE AVD ADVENTURES 

while they were in them, and either born tkem there^ 
or murder them as they came out ; as malice seldon» 
sleeps very sound, it was yery stränge they should tto( 
have been kept awake. 

However, as the two men had also a design ob 
them, as I hare said, thousih a much i^rer one tfaaii' 
that of burning and murdering, it happened, and very 
luckily for them all, that they were up, and goMr 
abroad, before the bloody-minded rogues came to 
tfaeir huts. 

When they came there, and found the men gooer 
Atkins, who, it seems, was the forwardest maa, 
called out to bis comrade, '' Ha, Jack, here's tiie 

nest, but, d n them, the birds are flown." They 

mused awhile, to thiuk what should be the occasion of 
their being gone abroad so soon, and suggested pre^ 
sently that the Spaniards had given them notice of it; 
aod with that they shook hands, and swore to ona 
another that they would be revenged of the Spaniards« 
As soon as they had made this bloody bargain, they 
feil to work with the poor men's habitation ; they did 
not set fire, indeed, to any thing, but they pulled 
down both their houses, and pulled them so limb from 
limb, that they left not the least stick standing, or 
scarce any sign on the ground where they stood : they 
tore all their little collected household stuff in pieces, 
and tlurew every thing about in such a manner, that 
the poor men afterwards found some of their things a 
mile oiF their habitation. When they had done tbis, 
they pulled up all the young trees which the poor men' 
had planted ; pulled up an enclosure they had mmde 
to secure their cattle and their com ; and, in a word, 
sacked and plundered every thing as completdy as a 
horde of Tartars would have done. 

The two men were, at this juncture, gone to £ad 
^lem out, and had resolved to fight them wherever 
they had been, though they were but two to thr»e;< 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.' 47 

SO that, had they met, there certainly would hBvm 
been bloodshed amon^ them ; ibr they ivere all veiy 
latout, resolute fellows, to give them their due. 

But Proyidenee took more care to keep them asun-«' 

der than they themsel?es could do to meet ; for, as if 

they had dogged one another, when the three were 

gone thither» the two were here ; and afterwards, 

wfaeti the two went back to find them, the three were 

come to the old habitation again : we shall see their 

different condact. presently. When the three came 

back like furious creatures, fiushed with the rage which' 

the work they had been about had put them into, they 

came up to the Spaniards, and told them what they 

had done, by way of scoff and bravado ; and one of 

them stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as if they 

kad been a couple of boys at play, takes hold of his 

hat as it was on his head, and giving it a twirl abotit^ 

fleering in his face, says to him, '' And you, Seignior 

Jack Spaniard, shall have the same sauce, if you do> 

not mend your manners." The Spaniard, who, though 

a quiet civil man, was as brave a man as could be, and 

withal a strong, well-made man, iooked at him for a 

good while, and then^ having no weapon in his band, 

stepped gravely up to him, and with one blow of hi» 

fist knocked him down, as an ox felled with a pole-" 

ax« ; at which one of the rogues, as insolent as the first, 

fired bis pistol at the Spaniardimmediately : he missed 

his body, indeed, for the bullets wentthrough his hatr, 

but one of them touched the tip of his ear, and he bled 

pretty much. The blood made the Spaniard believe' 

he was more hurt than he really was, and that put him 

into some heat, for before he acted all in a perfect 

calm; but now resolring to go through with his work, 

he stooped, and took the fellow's musket whom he 

had knocked down, and was just going to shoot the 

man who had fired at him, when the rest of the Spa» 

niardt« being in the caye, came out^ and calling to him 



4S LIFE And adventciCes 

not to'sboot, they stepped in, secured the oth^r twi^i 
and took their arms from them. 

When they were thus disarmed, and found they häd 
made all the Spaniards their enemies, as well as their 
own countrymen, they began to cool, and, giring tlMf 
Spaniards better words, would have their arms again ; 
bat the Spaniards, considering the feud that was be- 
tween them and the other two Englishmen, and that 
it would be the best method they could take to keep 
Ihem from killing one another, told. them they wonlv 
do them no barm, and if they would live peaceably, 
they would be very willing to assist and aasociate 
with them as they did before ; but that they could not 
think of giving them their arms again, white they ap- 
peared so resolved to do mischief with them to their 
own countrymen, and had eyeu threatened them dl 
to make them their servants. 

The rpgues were now no more capable to hear rea- 
son than to act with reason ; but being refused their 
arms, they went raving away, and raging like mad- 
men, threatening what they would do, though they had 
no tire-arms. But the Spaniards, despising tlieir 
threatening, told them they should take care how they 
offered any injury to their plantation or cattle, for if 
they did, they would shoot them as they would raTen- 
ous beasts, wherever they found them ; and if th€j 
feil into their hands ali?e, they should certainly be 
hanged. However, this was far from cooling them, 
but away they went, raging and swearing like furiee 
of hell. As soon as they were gone, the two men came 
back, in passion and rage enough also, though of ano- 
ther kind ; for having been at their plantation, and 
finding it all demolished and destroyed, as above, it 
will easily be supposed they had provocation enough. 
They could scarce have room to teil their tale, äe 
Spaniards were so eager to teil them theirs ; and it 
was Strange enough to find that three men shovld 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. 40 

bully nineteen, and afterwards receiire no punishmeat 
«tall. 

The Spaniards, indeed, despised them, and espe- 
cially, having thus disarmed them, made ligfat of their 
threatenings ; but the two Englishmen resolyed to 
have their remedy against them, what pains soever it 
coet to find themout. But the Spaniards interposed 
here too, and told them/that as they had disarmed 
them, they could not consent that they (the two) 
should pursue them with fire-arms, and perhaps kill 
them. ** But," said the grave Spaniard, who was 
their governor, ** we will endeavour to make them do 
you justice, if you will leave it to us : for there is no 
doubt but Üiey will come to us again when Üieir 
paasion is over, being not able to subsist without our 
assistance : we promise you to make no peace with 
them without having a lull satisfaction for you ; and 
on this condition we hope you will promise to use no 
yiolence with them, other than in your own defence." 
The two Englishmen yielded to this yery awkwardly, 
and with great reluctance ; but the Spaniards pro- 
tested that they did it only to keep them from blood- 
shed, and to make all easy at last. '* For," said 
they» ** we are not so many of us ; here is room 
enough for us all, and it is a great pity we should not 
be all good firiends." At length they did consent, 
and waited for .the issue of the thing, living for some 
days with the Spaniards ; for their own habitation waa 
deatroyed. 

In about fire days' time the three vagrants, tired 
with wandering, and almost starred with hunger, 
having chiefly lived on turtles' eggs all that while, 
came back to the grove ; and finding my Spaniard, 
who, as I have said, was the governor, and two more 
with him Walking by the side of the creek, they came 
up in a very submissive, humble manuer, and begged 
lo be received again into the family. The Spaniards 
ased them ciyilly, but told them they had acted so un- 

VOL. II. \i 



50 ^ UPS AND ADVBNTVBBS 

naturally by iheir countrymen, and so yery growly by 
them (the Spaniards), that tfaey could notcome ta 
any conplusion without Consulting the two Englishmeii 
and the rest ; but, however, tbey would go to them, 
and discourse about it, and they should know in half 
an hour. It may be guessed that they were very bard 
put to it : for^ it seems, as they were to wait this haU 
hour for an answer, they begged they would send thoa 
out some bread in the mean time, which they did; 
aending, at the same time, a large piece of goat's flesh»* 
and a boiled parrot, which they ate yery heartily, for 
they were hungry enough. 

After half an hour's consultation, they were caUed 
in, and & long debate etisued ; their two countrymeii 
charging them with the ruin of all their labour, and a 
design to murder them ; all which they owned before, 
and therefore could not deny now. On the whole thfl 
Spaniards acted the moderators between them ; and as 
they had obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt the 
three while they were naked and unarmed, so they 
now obliged the three to go and rebuild their fellows' 
two huts, one to be of the same, and the other of larger 
dimensions, than they were before; to fence their 
ground again where they had pulled up their fences, 
plant trees in the room of those pulled up, dig up the 
land again for planting corn where they had spoiled it, 
and, in a word, to restore every thing in the same 
State as they found it, as near as theyxould; for 
entirely it could not be, the season for the com, and 
the growth of the trees and hedges, not being possible 
to be recovered. 

Well, they submitted to all this ; and as they had 
plenty of provisions giyen them all the while, they 
grew very orderly, and the whole society began to live 
pleasantly and agreeably together again ; only that 
these three fellows could never be persuaded to work, 
I mean for themselves, except now and then a little, 
just as they pleased : however, the Spaniards told 



OF ROBtNftON CRUSOB. 51 

them plainly, that if they would but live sociably and 
iriiendiy together, and study the good of the whole 
plantation, they would be content to work for tbem, 
and let them walk about and be as idle as they 
pleased : and thus having lived pretty well together for 
a month or two, the Spaniards gave them arms again, 
and gave them liberty to go abroad with them as 
before. 

It was not aboye a week after they had these arms, 
and went abroad, but the ungrateful creatures began 
to be iBs insolent and troublesome as before : but, höw- 
ever, an accident happened presently on this, which 
endangered the safety of them all ; and they were 
bbliged to lay by all private resentments, and look to 
the preservation of their lives. 

It happened one night that the Spanish governor, 
as I call him, that is to say, the Spani^rd whose life 
I had saved, who was now the captain, or leader, oi* 
governor of the rest, found himself very uneasy in the 
night, and could by no means get any sleep : he was 
perfectly well in body, as he told me the story, only 
round bis thoughts tumultuous ; bis mind ran on men 
fighting and killing of one another, but he was broad 
awake, and could not by any means get any sleep ; in 
Short, -he lay a great white; but growing more and 
more uneasy, he resolved to rise. As they lay, being 
so many of them, on goat-skins laid thick on such 
couches and pads as they made for themselves, and not 
in hammocks and ship-beds, as I did, who was but 
one, so they had little to do, when they were willing 
to rise, but to get up on their feet, and perhaps put on 
a coat, such as it was, and their pnmps, and they were 
ready for going any way that their thoughts guided 
them. Being thus got up, he looked out ; but, being 
dark, he could see little or nothing ; and, besides, the 
trees which I had planted, as in my fornier account is 
deacribedi and which were now grown tall, intercepted 



52 LIFE AND ADYENTURES 

his sight, so that! he could only look up, and see tliat 
it was a clear star-light night, and hearing no noise, 
he returned and laid him down again : bat it was all 
one ; he could not sleep, nor could he compose him- 
seif to any thing like rest; but his thoughts were to 
the last degree uneasy, and he knew not for what. 

Having made some noise with rising and walldiig 
about, going out and Coming in, another of them 
waked, and calling, asked who it was that was up* 
The goyernor told him how it had been with him* 
" Say you so?" says the other Spaniard; ** such 
things are not to be slighted, I assure you ; there h 
x^ertainly some mischief working near us ;" and pie* 
sently he asked him, *' Where are the Englishmen ?'^ 
— ** They are all in their huts," says he, •* safii 
euough." It seems the Spaniards had kept possession 
of the main apartment, and had made a place for the 
three Englishmen, who since their last mutiny were 
always quartered by themselves, and could not come 
at the rest. " Well," says the Spaniard, ** there k 
something in it, I am persuaded, from my own expe* 
rience. I am satisfied our spirits embodied have a 
conyerse with, and receive intelligence from, the spi* 
rits unembodied, and inhabiting the invisible worid ; 
and this friendly notice is given for our ad van tage, if 
we knew how to make use of it. Come," says he, 
** let US go and look abroad; and if we find nothing 
at all in it to justify the trouble, I'U teil you a story 
to the purpose, that shall convince you of the justice 
of my proposing it." 

In a Word, they went out, to go iip to the top of 
the hill, where I used to go ; but they being strong, 
and a good Company, not alone, as I was, used none 
of my cautions to go up by the ladder, and pulling it 
up after them, to go up a second stage to the top, bat 
w^re going round through the grovq, unconcerned and 
unwary, when they were surprised with seeing a ligfat 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 53 

w of fire, a yery little way öfF from them, and hear- 
iag the voices of men, not of one ör two, bat of a 
great number. 

In all the discoveries I had made of-the savages 
buiding on the Island, it was my constant care to pre- 
▼ent them making the least discovery of there being 
any inhabitant on the place ; and when by any oeca-. 
sion they came to know it, they feit it so effectually, 
that Üiey that got away were scarce able to giye any 
aooount of it ; for we disappeared as soon as possible ; 
BOT dared ever any that had seen me escape to teil any 
ooe eise, except it was the three savages in our last 
encounter, who jumped into the boat; of whom, I* 
mentioned, I was afraid they should go honae, and 
bring more help. Whether it was the consequence of 
the escape of those men that so great a number came 
now together, or whether they came ignorantly, and 
by accident, on their usual bloody errand, the . Spa- 
niards could not, it seems, understand ; but, whatever 
it was, it had been their business either to have con- 
cealed themselves, or not to have seen them at all^ 
mach less to have let the savages have seen that there 
were any inhabitants in the place ; or to have fallen on 
them so effectually, as that not a man of them shonld 
have escaped, which could only have been by getting 
in between them and their boats : but this presence of 
mind was wanting to them, which was the ruin of 
their tranquillity for a great white. 

We necd not doubt but that the govemor and the 
man with him, surprised with this sight, ran back 
immediately, and raised their fellows, giving them an 
account of the imminent danger they were all in, and 
they again as readily took the alarm ; but it was 
impoflsible to persuade them to stay close within, 
wbere they were, but they must all run out to see how 
things stood. 

While it was dark, indeed, they were w^ll enough» 
and they had opportunity enough, for some hours, to 



54 LIFE AND ADYEXTURES 

view them by the light of three fires they had made al 
a distance from one another ; what they were doing 
they knew not, and what to do themselyes they knew 
not : for, first, the enemy were too many 3 aad, 
secondly, they did not keep together, but were di- 
vided into seyeral parties, and were on shore in several 
places. 

The Spaniards were in no small constemation at 
this sight ; and as they found that the fellows saa 
8traggling all oVer the shore, they made no doubt but, 
first or last, some of them would chop in on their ha- 
bitation, or on some other place where they would see 
'the token of inhabitants ; and they were in great per* 
plexity also for fear of their flock of goats, which 
would haye been little less than starving them, if they 
should have been destroyed : so the flrst thing they 
resolved on was, to dispatch three men away befbre it 
was light, two Spaniards and one Englishman» to 
drive all the goats away to the great valley where the 
cave was, and, if need were, to drive them into die 
yery cave itself. Could they have seen the savages 
all together in one body, and at a distance from their 
canoes, they resolved, if there had been a hundred of 
them, to have attacked them ; but that could not be 
obtained ; for they were some of them two milea off 
from the other ; and, as it appeared afterwards, weie 
of two different nations. 

After having mused a great while on the course 
they should take, and beatin g their brains in consider- 
ing their. present circumstances, they resolved, at last, 
while it was still dark, to send the old savage, Friday's 
father, out as a spy, to learn, if possible, somethuig 
concerning them ; as .what they came for, what they 
intended to do, and \ the like. The old man readily 
und^rtook it; and Stripping himself quite naked, as 
most of the sa vages were, away he went. After he 
had been gone an hour or two, he brings word that he 
had been among them undiscovered ; that he found 



OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. 65 

tliey were two parties; and of two seyeral nations, who 
had war with one another> and had a great batÜQ in 
their own country : and that both sides having had se«- 
veral prisoners taken in the fight, they were, by mere 
Chance, landed all on the sanie Island, for the devour» 
ing their prisoners and making merry, but their Co- 
ming so by Chance to the same place had spoiled all 
their mirth ; that they were in a great rage at one an- 
other, and were so uear, that he believed they would 
fight agai««soon«.daylightbega«toappiar: but 
he did not perceive that they had any notion of any 
body being on the island but themselves. He had 
hardly made an end of telling bis story, when they 
(soald perceive, by the unusual noise they made, 
that the two litde armies were engaged in a bloody 
fi^t. 

Friday's father used all the arguments he could to 

tersuade our people to lie close, and not be s^en; 
e told them their safety consisted in it, and that- they 
had nothing to do but lie still, and the savages would 
kill one another to their hands, and then the rest 
would go away ; and it was so to a tittle. But it was 
impossible to prevail, especially on the Englishmen ; 
their curiosity was so importunate on their prüden- 
tialsy that they must run out and see the battle : how- 
eyer, they used some caution too, viz. they did not go 
openly, just by their own dwelling, but went farther 
into the woods, and placed themselves to advantage, 
where they might securely s^e them manage the fight, 
mad, as they thought, not be seen by them ; but it 
•eems the sayages did see them^ as we shall find 
hereafter. 

The battle was yery fierce ; and, if I might belieye 
tbe Englishmen, one of them said he could perceiye 
that some of them were men of great brayesy, of in- 
▼tneible spirits, and of great policy in guiding the 
fight* Tbe battle, they said, held two hours before 



56 LIFE AND ADVENTURBS 

they could guess which party woul4 be beaten ; b«t 
then that party which was nearest our people's babi- 
tation began to appear weakest, and, after some time 
more, some of them began to fly ; and this put our 
men again into a great consternatiön, lest any one of 
those that fled should rua iuto the grove before their 
dwelling for shelter, and thereby involuntarily disoo- 
▼er the place ; and that, by consequence, the pursuem 
would do the like in search of them. On this they 
resolved that they would stand armed within the wall» 
and whoever came into the grove, they resolved to 
sally out over the wäll and kiU them : so that, if po»> 
sible, not one should return to. give an account of it : 
they ordered also that it should be done with their 
swords, or by knocking them down with the Stocks of 
their muskets, but not by shooting them, for fear of 
raising an alarm by the noise. 

As they expected, it feil out : three of the routed 
army fled for life, and crassing the creek, ran directly 
into the place, not in the least knowing whither they 
went, but running as into a thick wood for shelter. 
The scout they kept to look abroad gave notice of this 
within, with this addition, to our men's great satisfao* 
tion, viz. that the conquerors had not pursued them, 
or Seen wbich way they were gone; on this, the 
Spanish governor, a man of humanity, would not suf«' 
fer them to kill the three fugitives, but sending three 
men out by the top of the hill, ordered them to go 
round, come in behind them, and surprise and take 
them prisoners, which was done. The residue of the 
conquered peöple fled to their canoes, and got off to 
sea ; the Victors retired, made no pursuit, or very lit- 
tle, but drawing themselves into a body together, 
gave two great screaming shouts, which they supposed 
was by way of triumph, and so the fight endea : and 
the same aay> about three o'clock in the afternoon^ - 
they abo marched to their canoes. And thus the 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. 57 

Biards had their Island again free to themselves, their 
firigfat was over, and they saw no savages in several 
years after. 

After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out 
of their den, and yiewiag the field of battle, they 
fouod about two and thirty men dead . on the spot : 
some were killed with great long arrows, some of 
which were found sticking in their bodies ; but most 
of them were killed with great wooden swords, sixteen 
or seyenteen of which they found in the field of bat» 
tle, and as many bows, with a great many arrows* 
The.e swords were stränge, great, unwieldy thing». 
and Üiev must be very strong men 'that used them : 
most of those men that were killed with them had 
their heads smashed to pieces, as we may say, or, as 
we call it in English, their brains knocked out, and 
several their arms and legs broken ; so that^^it is evi- 
dent they fight with inexpressible rage and fury. We 
found not one man that was not stone dead, for eithar 
they stay by their enemy tili they have quite killed 
himy or they carry all the wounded men that are not 
quite dead away with them. 

Tfais deliverance tamed our Englishmen for^a great 
iHiile ; the sight had filled them with horror, and the 
ooBflequences appeared terrible to the last defrite, espe* 
citüly on supposing that some time or dBnr they 
shottld fall mto the bands of those creatures, wbo 
would not only kill them as enemies, but kill them for 
foody as we kill our cattle ; and they professed to me, 
that the thoughts of being eaten up like beef or mut- 
tOB, though it was supposed it was not to be tili they 
were dead, had something in it so horrible, that it 
B ttuso a te d their very stomachs, made them sick when 
they thought of it, and filled their minds with such 
unoiual terrofy that they were not themselvies for some 
weeks afier. This, as I said, tamed eVen the three 
EngUrii brutes I have beeu speakiag of, and for a 
great while after they were tractable, and went about 



68 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

tlie common business of the whole society well enöugli ; 
planted, sowed, reaped, and began to be all natural- 
ized to the country. But some time after this» they 
feil into such simple measures again, as brou^t them 
into a great deal of trouble. 

They had taken three prisoners, as I observed ; and 
these tbree being lusty , stout young fellows» they made 
them servants, and taüght them to work for them ; and, 
as slaves, they did well enough; but they did not 
take their measures with them as I did by my maa 
Friday, viz. to begin with them on the principle of 
having saved their lives, and then instruct them in the 
rational principles of life ; much less of religion» civil* 
ising, and reducing them by kind usage and affectioii- 
ate arguings ; but as they gaye them their food eyery 
day, so they gave them their work too, and kept them 
fully employed in drudgery enough ; but they failed in 
this by it, that they never had them to assist th^n» 
^ and fight for them, as I had my man Friday, who was 
as true to me as the yery flesh on my bones. 

But to come to the family part. Being all now 
good friends, (for common danger, as I said above» 
had effectually reconciled them) they began to consi- 
der their general circumstances ; and the first thing 
that c^Jfß under their consideration was, whether» 
seein g vEb savages particularly haünted that aide oif 
the island, and that there were more remote and 
retired parts of it equally adapted to their way of 
living, and manifestly to their advantage, they should 
not rather move their habitation, and plant in some 
more proper place for their safety, and especially for 
the security of their cattle and com. 

On this, after long debate, it was concluded that 
they would not remove their habitation ; because that, 
some time ot other, they thought they might hear 
irom their governor again, meaning me ; and if I 
should send any one to seek them, I should be sut» to 
dii*ect them to that side ; where, if they should fisd 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 69 

the place demolisfaed, they would coDclude the savages 
bad kiiled us all, and we were goDe ; and so our sup- 
ply would ffo too. But as to their coro and cattle» 
they agreed to remove them into the valley where my 
cave was, where the iand was as proper for both, and 
where, indeed, there was Iand enough : howeyer, on 
second thoughts, they altered one pieurt of their resolu- 
tion too, and resolved only to remove part of their 
catüe thither, and plant part of their com there ; and 
80 if one part was destroyed» the other niight be saved. 
And one part of prudence they used,.which it was 
▼ery well tiiey did, viz. that they never trusted those 
thrie savagesf which they had prisoners. with know- 
ing any thing of the plantation they had made in 
that yalley, or of any cattle they had there, much less 
of the care there, which they kept, in case of neces- 
sity, as a safe retreat ; and thither they carried also 
the two barreis of powder which I had sent them at 
my Coming away. But, however, they resolved not 
to change their habitation ; yet they agreed, that as I 
had earefully covered it fir^ with a wall or fortifica- 
tion, and then with a grove of trees, so seeing their 
•afety consisted entirely in their being concealed, of 
which they were now fiilly convinced, .they set to 
werk to Cover and conceal the place yäAaaore ef- 
fectually than before. For this purpose, flt planted 
trees, or rather thrust in stakes, which in time all grew 
iip to be trees, for some good distance before the 
entrance into my apartments, they went on in the 
aame manner, and fiUed up the rest of that whole 
Space of gjound, from the trees I had set, quite down 
to the side of the creek» where, as I said, I landed 
my floats, and even into the very ooze where the tide 
flowed, not so much as leaving any place to Iand, or 
any sign that there had been any landing thereabouts ; 
theae stakes also beinff of a wood very forward to 
crow, as I have noted formerly, they took care to 
EaTe them generally much larger and taller than those 



60 LIFE AND ADVENTURBS 

which I had planted ; and as they grew apaccs» id 
they pianted them so yery thick and close together, 
thät when they had been three or four years grown, 
there was no piercing with the eye any considerable 
way into the plantation : and, as lor that part which 
I had planted, the trees were grown as thick as a 
man's thigh, and among them they placed so many other 
Short ones, and so thick, that, in a word, it stood like 
a palisado a quarter of a mile thick, and it was nezt 
to impossible to penetrate it, but with a little army to 
cut it all down ; for a little dog could hardly get be- 
tween the trees, they stood so close. 

But this was not all ; for they did the same by all 
the ground to the right band and to the left, and 
round even to the top of the hill, leaving no way, not 
so much as for themselves to coroe out, but by the 
ladder placed up to the side of the hill, and then lifted 
up, and plaeea again from the. first stage up to the 
top ; and when the ladder was taken down, nothinff 
, but what had wings, or witchcraft to assist it, could 
come at them. This was excellently well contrived ; 
nor was it less than what they afterwards found occa-' 
sion for ; which served to convince me, that as human 
prudence has the authority of Providence to justify it^ 
so it haftdoubtless the direction of Providence to sei 
it to wön; and if we listened carefully to the voice 
of it, I am persuaded we might prevent many of the 
disasters which our lives are now, by our own n^li* 
gence, subjected to : but this by the way. 

I retum to the story. — They lived two years aftw 
this in perfect retirement, and had no more yisits firom 
the savages. They had indeed an alarm given them 
one morning, which put them into a great constema^ 
tion ; for some of the Spaniards being out early one 
inoming on the west side, or rather end of the Island, 
(which was that end where I never went, for fear of 
being discovered,) they were surprised with seeing 
abore twenty canoes of Indians just cOming on shore« 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. 61 

They made the best of their way home, in huriy 
enough ; and giving the alann to their comrades, they 
kept close all that day and the next, going out only 
at night to make their Observation : but they had the 
good luck to be niistaken ; for wherever the savages 
weilt, they did not- land that time on the island, but 
pursned some other design. 

And now they had another broil with the three 
Englishmen ; one of \f hom, a most turbulent fellow, 
being in a rage at one of the three slaves, which I 
mentioned they had taken^ because the fellow had not 
done something right which he bid him do, and seemed 
a little untractable in his showiog him, drew a hatchet 
out of a frog-belt, in which he wore it by bis side, and 
feil upon the poor sarage, not to correct him, but to 
kill mm. One of the Spaniards,- who was by, seeing 
bim give the fellow a barbarous cut with the hatchet, 
which he aimed at his head, but Struck iuto his Shoul- 
der, so that he thought he had cut the poor creature's 
arm off, ran to him, and entreating him not to murder 
the .poor man, placed himself between him and the 
saYBge, to prevent the mischief. The fellow being 
enraged the more at this, Struck at the Spaniard with 
his fauatchet, and swore he would serve him as he in- 
tended to serve the savage ; which the Spaiiiard per- 
ceiving, avoided the blow, and with a shovel which be 
had in his band (for they were all working in the field 
about their corn-land,) knock ed the brüte down. An- 
other of the Englishmen running at the si^me time to 
help hb comrade, knocked the Spaniard down ; and 
then two Spaniards more came in to help their man, 
and a third Englishman feil in upon them. They had 
none of them any fire-arms, or any other weapons but 
hatchets and other tools, except this third English- 
man ; be had one of my rusty cutlasses, with which 
he made at the two last Spaniards, and wounded them 
botti. This fray set thewhole family in an uproar, 
and more help Coming in, they took the three En^lUb- 






62 LIFE AND ADVENTVRBS 

men prisoners. The next question was, what shouU 
be done|with them? They had been so often muti-* 
nous, and were so very furious, so desperate, aad so 
idie withal, they knew not what course to take wilh 
them, for they were mischievous to the highest degree, 
aod valued not what hurt . they did to any man ; so 
that, in short, it was not safe to live with them.- 

The Spaniard, wbo was governor, told them, in so 
many words, that if they had been of his own country, 
he would have hanged.them; for all laws and tili 
governors were to presenre society, and those wb» 
were dangerous to the society ought to be exp^ed 
out of it; but as they were Englishmen, and thatil 
was to the generous kindness of an Englishman that 
they all owed their preservation and deliverance, he 
would use them with all possible lenity, and would 
leave them to the judgment of the other two English- 
men, who were their countrymen. 

One of the two honest Englismen stood up, and 
sald they desired it might not be left to them ; '' For," 
says he, '< I am sure we ought to sentence them to 
the gallows :" and with that he gives an account how 
Will Atkins, one of the three, had proposed to have 
all the five Englishmen join together, and murder all 
the Spaniards when they were in their sleep. 

When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to 
Will Atkins, " How, Seignior Atkins, would yo« 
murder us all ? What have you to say to that?*' The 
hardened vUlain was so far from denying it, that be 
Said it was true ; and, G — d d — n bim, they would do 
it Still, before they had done with them. " Well, but 
Seignior Atkins," says the Spaniard, " what have we 
done to you, that you will kill us ? And what would 
you get by killing us ? And what must we do to pre- 
vent your killing us ? Must we kill you, or you kill 
US ? Why will you put us to the necessity of tkis, 
Seignior Atkins?" says the Spaniard very calmly, 
and smiling. Seignior Atkins was in such a rage »t 



Of ROBINSON CRUaOB. 69 

the Spaniard's making a jest of it, that, had he not 
been held by three men, and withal had no^weapon 
uear him, it was thought he would have attempted to 
haye killed the Spaniard in the middle of all the com<* 
pany. This faair-brain carriage obliged them to con-« 
sider seriously what was to be done : the two English-r 
men, and the Spaniard who had sared the poor savage, 
were of t^e opinion that they should hang one of the 
three, for an example to the rest ; and that particu- 
Inrly it should be he that had twice attempted to com-r 
mit murder with bis hatchet ; and, indeed, there was 
■ome reason to believe he had done ic, for the poor sa^* 
▼age was in such a miserable condition wit^ the wonnd 
he had received, that it was thought he could not live« 
But the goTernor Spaniard still said no ; it was an 
Englishman that had sayed all their lives, and he 
would never consent to put an Englishman to death, 
though he had murdered half of them ; nay, he said, 
if he had been killed himself by an Englishman, and 
had time left to speak, it should be that they should 
pardon him. 

This was so positively insisted on by the governor 
Spaniard, that there was no gainsaying it; and as 
merciful .counsels are most apt to prevail, where they 
are so earnestly pressed, so they all came into it ; but 
theo it was to be considered what should be done to 
keep them from doing the mischief they designed : for 
all agreed, goyernor and all, that means were to be 
used tbr preserving the society from danger. ^fter a 
long debate, it was agreed, first, that they should be 
disarmed, and not permitted to have either gun, pow- 
der, shot, sword, or any weapon ; and should be turned 
out of the society, and left to live where they would, 
and how they would, by themselves ; but that none of 
the rest, either Spaniards or English, should converse 
with them, speak with them, or have any thing to do 
with them : that they should be forbid to come within 



64 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

a certain distance of the place where the rest dwelt'; 
and if tRey offered to commit any disorder, so as to 
spoil, burn; kill, or destroy any of the corn, plantings, 
buildings, fences, or cattle belonging to the society, 
they should die without mercy, and they woald shoot 
them wherever they could (ind them. 

The governor, a man of great humanity, musing ob 
the sentence, considered a little on it ; and turning to 
the two honest Englishmen, said, '' Horld ; you mmt 
reflect tliat it wilb be long ere they can raise com and 
cattle of their own, and they must not starve ; we 
must therefore allow them provisions." So he causel 
to be added, that they should have a proportion of 
corn given them to last them eight months, and for 
'seed to sow^ by which time they might be supposed to 
raise some of their own ; that they should have m 
milch'goats, four he-goats, and six kids given them, 
as well for present subsistence as tor a störe ; and that 
they should have tools given them for their work in 
the fields, such as six hatchets, an adze, a saw, and 
the like ; but they should have none of these tools or 
provisions, unless they would swear solemnly that they 
would not hurt or injure any of the Spaniards with 
them, or of their fellow Englishmen. 

Thus they dismissed them the society, and tnmed 
them out to shift for themselves. They went away 
sullen and refractory, as neither content to go awaj 
»or to stay ; but, as there was no remedy, they went,. 
pretending to go and choose a place where they would 
settle themselves; and some provisions were given 
them, but no weapons. 

About four or (ive days after, they came again for 
some victuals, and gave the governor an account where 
they had pitched their tents, and marked themselves 
out a habitation and plantation ; and it was a very. 
Gonvenient place, indeed, on the remotest part of the 
island, N.£. much about the place where I providen« 



OF BOBINSON CRUSOE. 65 

tially landed in my first voyage, ivhen I was driveii 
out to sea, the Lord alone knows whither, in my fool- 
iah attempt to sail round the Island, 

Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and 
contrived them in a manner like my first habitation» 
being close under the side of a hiil, having some trees 
growing already on three sides of it, so that by plant- 
ing others, it would be yery easily covered from the 
aighty nnless narrowly searched for. They desired 
aome dried goat-skins, for beds and covering, which 
were given them ; and on giving their words that they 
would not disturb the rest, or injure any of their 
plantationSy fiiey gave them hatchets, and what other 
tools they could spare ; some peas, barley, and rice. 
for Bowing ; and, m a word, any thing they wanted, 
ezcept arms and ammunition. 

They lived in this separate condition about six 
montbs, and had got in their first harvest, though the 
quantity was but small, the parcel of land they had 
planted being but little ; for, indeed, having all their 
plantation to form, they had a great deal of work on 
their hands ; and when they came to make boards and 
poCs, and such things, they were quite out of their 
elementy and could make nothing of it : and when tho 
nioy season came on, for want of a cave in the earth» 

^ thqr could not keep their grain dry, and it was in 
graat danger of spoiling; and this humbled them 
much : so they came and begged the Spaniards to 
help them, which they very readily did ; and in four 

L days worked a great hole in the side of the hill for 
them, big enough to secure their corn and other thinga 
from the rain ; but it was but a poor place, at best, 
compared to mine, and especially as niine was then, 
for the Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and made 
leveral new apartments in it. 

About three quarters of a year after this Separation, 
t new frolio took these rogues, which, together with 

VOL. II. fi 



66 UFE AND ADVSNTURE8 

the former villany they had oommittedy brought miN 
Chief enougb on them, and had very near been the 
ruin of the whole colony. The three new associales 
began, it seems, to be weary of the laborious life they 
led, and that without hope of bettering their Girctun* 
stances ; and a whim took them, that they would make 
a Yoyage to the continent, from ^hence the savagei 
came, and would try if they could seize on some pri- 
soniers among the natives there, and bring them homey 
so as to make them do the laborious part of their work 
for them. 

The project was not so preposterous, if they had 
gone no farther : but they did nothing, and propcaed 
nothingy but had either mischief in the design, or bm- 
Chief in the event : and, if I may give my opinioSy 
they seemed to be under a blast from Heaven ; for if 
we will not allow a visible curse to pursue visible 
crimes, how shall we reconcile the events of things 
with the divine justice ? It was certainly an appa- 
rent vengeance on their crime of mutiny and piraoy 
that brought them to the State they were in ; and ihm 
showed not the least remorse for the crime, but added 
new yillanies to it, such as the piece of monstrous cm- 
elty of wounding a poor slave, because he did not« or 
perhaps could not, understand to do what he direoted, 
and to wound him in such a manner as made him a 
cripple all his life, and in a place where no surgeon or 
medicine could be had for his eure ; and what was still 
worse, the murderous intent, or, to do justice to tbe 
crime, the intentional murder, for such to be sure it 
wej9, as was afterwards the formed design they all 
laid, to murder the Spaniards in cold blood, and ia 
tlieir sleep. 

But I leave obserring, and return to the story :— 
The three fellows came down to the Spaniards (M* 
morning, and in very humble terms desired to be ad- 
mitted to speak with them : the Spaniards very readi« 
ly heard what they had to say, which wasthis :-*«That 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 67 

diey were tired of liviuff in the manner they did ; and 
that they were not handy enough to make the necessa- 
ries they wanted, and that having no help, they found 
they shonld be starved ; but if «the Spaniards would 
giTe them leaye to take one of the canoes which they 
came oTer in, and give them arms and ammunition 
proportioned to their defence, they would go over to 
the main and seek their fortunes, and so deiiver them 
from the trottble of supplying them with any other 
prorisions« 

The Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of 
them, but yery honestly represented to them the cer- 
taiD destruction they were running into; told them 
they had suffered such hardships on that very spot, 
that they could, without any spirit of prophecy, teil 
them they would be starved, or murdered, and bade 
them consider of it. 

The men replied audaciously, that they should be 
ftanred if they statd here, for they could not work, and 
woald not work, and they could but be starved abroad ; 
•ad if they were murdered, tbere was an end of them ; 
they had no wives or children to cry after them : and, 
ia Short, insisted importunately on their demand; 
declartng they would go, whether they would give 
them any arms or no. 

The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that 
if they were resolved to go, they should not go like 
aaked men, and be in no condition to defend them- 
selyes : and that though they could ill spare their fire- 
arms, having not enough for themselves, yet they 
would let them have two muskets, a pistol, and a cut- 
lass, and each man a hatchet, which they thought was 
sufficient for them. In a word, they accepted the 
offer; and having baked them bread enough to serve 
them a month, and given them as much goat's flesh as 
Ihey coald eat while it was sweet, and a great basket 
ef aried grapes, a pot of fresli water, and a young kid 
dife, th^ Doldly set out in the canoe for a voya^^ 



68 LIFK AND ADVENTUREft 

ovcr the sea, where it was at least forty miles 
broad. 

The boat, indeed, was a large one» and would very 
well have carried fifteen or twenty men, and theretbre 
was rather too big for them to manage ; but as they 
had a fair breeze, and flood-tide with them, they did 
well enough. They had made a mast of a long pole, 
and a sail of four large goat-skins dried, which they 
had sewed or laced together; and away they went 
merrily enough : the Spaniards called after them, Buen 
viage ; and no man ever thought of seeing them any 
more. 

The Spaniards were often saying to one another, and 
to the two honest Etiglishmen who remained behind, 
how quietly and comfortably they lived, now tbese 
three turbulent fellows were gone ; as for their Coming 
again, that was the remotest thing from their thoughts 
that could be imagined ; when, behold, after two and 
twenty days' absenee, one of the Englishmen, being 
abroad on bis planting work, sees three stränge mett 
Coming towards him at a distance, with guns on their 
Shoulders. 

Away runs the Englishman, as if he was bewitched, 
comes frightened and amazed to the governor Spa* 
niard, and teils him they were all undone, for there 
were strangers landed on the island, but could not teil 
who. The Spaniard, pausing a while, says to him, 
'• How do you mean, you cannot teil who? They are 
the savages, to be sure." — ** No, no," says the En- 
glishman ; " they are men in clothes, with arms." — 
** Nay then," says the Spaniard, ** why are you con- 
cerned ? If they are not savages, they must be friends ; 
for there is no Christian nation on earth but will do us 
good rather than barm." 

Wiiile they were debating thus, came the three En- 
glishmen, and standing without the wood, which was 
new planted, hallooed to them : they presently knew 
their yoices, and so all the wonder of that kiod 



OP ROBINSON CRUSOfi* 69 

Ceaned. But now tbe admiration was turned on an-» 
other question, viz. What could be the matter, and 
what made thent come back again ? 

It was not long before they brought tbe men in, 
and inquiring^ where tbey bad been, and wbat they had 
been doing, they gaye them a füll aecount of their 
voyage in a few words, viz. That they reaehed the 
land in two days, or something less ; but Unding the 
people alarmed at tbeir Coming, and preparing with 
bows and arrows to fight them, they durst not go on 
shore, but sailed on to the northward six or seven 
hours, tili they came to a great opening, by whicb 
they perceived that the land they saw from our island 
was not the main, but an island ; on entering that 
opening of the sea^ they saw an other island on the 
rigfat band, north, and several more west ; and bein^ 
resolved to land somewhere, they put over to one of 
the islands which lay west, and went boldly on shore : 
that they found the people very courteous and friendly 
to them ; and that they gave them several roots and 
some dried fish, and appeared very sociable; and the 
women as well as the men were very forward to sup-« 
ply them with any thing they could get' for them to 
eat, and brought it to them a great way on their 
heads. 

They continued here four days ; and inquired, M 
well as they could of them, by signs, what nations 
were this way, and that way ; and were told of several 
fierce and terrible people that lived almost every way» 
who, as they made known by signs to them, used to 
eat men ; but as for themselves, they said, they never 
eat men or women, except only such as they took in 
the wars; and then, they owned, they made a great 
feast, and ate their prisoners. 

The Englishmen inquired when they had had a 
feast of that kind; and they told them about two 
tDoons ago, pointing to the moon, and to two fingers ; 
ud that their grea^ king had two bundced ^moweti 



70 LIFE AND ABVBNTURES 

now, which he had taken in bis war^ and they wert 
feeding them to make them fat for the next feasi« 
The Englishmen seemed mighty deairous of seeing 
those prisoners ; but the others mistaking them, 
thought they were desirons to have some of tbem to 
carry away for their own eating ; so they beckoned to 
them, pointing to the setting of the sun, and then to 
the rising ; which was to signify, that the next mon- 
ing at sun-rising they wouid bring some for them; 
and, accordingly, the next moming they bronght 
down five women and eleven men, and gare them to 
the Englishmen, to carry with them on Üieir T03rage, 
just as we would bring so many cows and oxen down 
to a sea-port town to yictual a ship. 

As bnitish and barbarous as these fellows were al 
home, their stomachs turned at this sight, and they did 
not know what to do. To refuse the prisoners would 
have been the highest affront to the sayage gentry 
that could be offered them, and what to do with tbem 
they knew not. However, after some debate, th^ 
resolved to accept of them ; and, in retnm, they gaye 
the savages that brought them one of their hatchets, 
an old key, a knife, and six or seven of their bullets ; 
which, though they did not understand their nse, they 
seemed particularly pleased with ; and then tying the 
poor creatures' hands behind them, they dragged the 
prisoners into the boat for our men. 

The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon 
as they had them, or eise they that gave them thii 
noble present would certainly have expected that they 
should have gone to work with them, have killed two 
or three of them the next morning, and perhaps have 
invited the donors to dinner. But having taken their 
leave, with all the respect and thanks that could wdl 

Sass between people, where, on either side, they un- 
erstood not one word they could say, they put off 
with their boat, and came back towards the fint 
Island ; where, when they anrived, they set eight of 



OF ROBINBON CRUSOE« 71 

r* onen at liberty, there being too many of 
tbeir occasion. 

In their voyage, they endeavoured to have some 
communication with their prisoners ; but it was im^ 
possible io make them understand any thing : nothing 
they could say to them, or give them, or do for them, 
bat was looked on as going to murder them. They 
first of all unbound them ; but the poor creatures 
screamed at that» especialiy the women, as if they 
had just feit the knife at their throats; for they im- 
mediately concluded they were unbound on purpose 
to be killed, If they gave them any thtng to eat, it 
was the same thing ; they theo concluded, it was for 
fear they should sink in flesh, and so not be fat enough 
to kill. If they looked at one of them more parti-* 
cularly, the party presently concluded, it was to see 
whetber he or she was fattest, and fittest to kill first : 
nay, after they had brought them quite over, and be*« 
gaa to use them kindly, and treat them well, still they 
expected every day to make a dinner or supper for 
their new masters. 

When the three Wanderers had given this unac^ 
countable history or Journal of their voyage, the 
Spaniard asked them where their new family was ^ 
and being told that they had brought them on shore^ 
and put them into one of their huts, and were come 
up to heg some victuals for them, they (the Spa** 
Biards) and the other two Englishmen, that is to say» 
the whole colony, resolved to go all down to the 
place and see them ; and did so, and Friday's father 
with them. 

When they came into the hut, there they sat all 
bound ; for when they had brought them on shore» 
they bound their hands, that they might not take thet 
boat and make their escape ; there, I say, they sat, 
all of them stark naked. First, there were three men» 
luaty, comely fellows, well-shaped, straight and fair 



72 LIFE AND ADVENTUBBS 

limbs, about thirty to thirty-fiye years of age; and 
five women, whereof two migfat be from thirty to 
forty ; two more not above four or five and twenty ; 
and the fifth, a tall, comely maiden, about sixteen oi* 
seventeen. The women were well-favored, agreeable 
persons, both in shape and features, only tawny ; and 
two of them, had they been perfect white, would haye 
passed for yery handsome women, even in London 
itself, having pleasant agreeable countenances, aiid of 
a very modest behaviour ; especially when they came 
afterwards to be clothed and dressed, as they called 
it, though that dress was very indifferent, it must be 
confessed ; of which hereafter. 

The sight, you may be sure, was something un-* 
couth to our Spaniards, who were, to give them a 
just charaeter, men of the best behaviour, of the most 
calm, sedate tempers, and perfect good-humour, that 
ever I met with ; and, in particular, of the most mo- 
desty, as will presently appear : I say, the sight was 
very uncouth, to see three naked men and five naked 
women, all together bound, and in the most miserable 
circumstances that human nature could be supposed to 
be, viz. to be expeeting every moment to be dragged 
out, and have their brains knoeked out, and then to be 
eaten up like a calf that is killed for a dainty. 

The first thing they did was to cause the cid In- 
dian, Friday's father, to go in, and see, first, if he 
knew any of them, and then if he understood any of 
their speech. As soon as the old man came in^ he 
looked seriously at them, but knew none of them; 
neither could any of them understand a word he said, 
or a sign he could make, except one of the women. 
However, this was enough to answer the end, which 
was to satisfy them that the men into whose hands 
they were fallen were Christians ; that they abhorred 
eating men or women ; and that they might be sure they 
would not be killed. Ab soon as they were assyred 




I /•''!■' tnüt- -^^ 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE^ 73 

of this, they discovered such a joy, and by such awk«« 
'w^ard gestures, several ways, as is hard to describe ; 
for, it seems, they were of several nations. 

The woman who was their Interpreter, was bid, in 
the next place, to ask them if they were willing to 
be servants, and to work for the men who had 
brought them away, to save their lives; at whicb 
tbey all feil a dancing; and presently one feil to 
taking up this, and another that, any thing that lay 
next, to carry on their Shoulders, to intimate that they 
^ere willing to work. 

The governor, who found that the having women 

^mong them would presently be attended with some 

iQconvenience, and might occasion some strife, and 

Perhaps blood, asked the three men what they in- 

^nded to do with these women, and how they in-» 

^nded 1o use them, whether as servants or as women ? 

One of the Englishmen answered very boldly and 

»"eadily, that they would use them as both ; to which 

^e governor said, <* I am not going to restrain yoü 

«rom it; you are your own masters as to that; but 

^is I think is but just, for ayoiding disorders and 

f]uarrels among you, and I desire it of you for that 

i-eason only, viz. That you will all engage, that if any 

of you take any of these women, as a woman or wife, 

that he shall take but one: and that having taken 

one, none eise shall touch her ; for though we cannot 

marry any one of you, yet it is but reasonable that 

while you stay here, the woman any of you takes 

should be maintained by the man that takes her, and 

should be bis wife; I mean," i^ays he, ** while he 

continues here, and that none eise shall have any 

thing to do with her." All this appeared so just, 

that every one agreed to it without any difficulty. 

Then the Englishman asked the Spaniards if they 
designed to take any of them ? But every one of 
them answered *' No :" some of them said they had 
^ives in Spain, and the others did not like women 



74 LIFB AND ADVBNTURX5 

that were not Christians: and all together ddclared 
that they would not touch one of them : which wai 
an instance of such yirtue as I have not met with ia 
all my travels. On the other hand, to be short» the 
five Englishmen took them every one a wife, diat k 
to say, a temporary wife ; and so they set up a new 
form of living ; for the Spaniards and Friday's father 
lived in my old habitation, which they had enlarged 
exceedingly within. The three servants which wen 
taken in the late battle of the savages lired with 
them ; and these carried on the main pari of the co- 
lony, supplied all the rest with food, and aiNUflted 
them in any thing as they could, or as they fomd 
necessity reqnired. 

But the wonder of this story was, how fiye mich 
refractory, ill-matched fellows, should agree aboat 
these women, and that two of them should not pitdi 
on the same woman, especially seeing two or three 
of them were, without comparison, more agreeaUe 
than the others : but they took a good way enough to 
prevent quarrelling among themselres; for they set 
the five women by themselyes in one of their huts, and 
they went all into the other hut, and drew lots among 
them who should choose first. 

He that drew to choose first went away by himself 
to the hut where the poor naked creatures were, and 
fetched out her he chose ; and it was worth observing, 
that he that chose first took her that was reckoned the 
homeliest and oldest of the five, which made mirth 
enough among the rest; and even the Spaniardfl 
laughed at it : but the fellow considered better than 
any of them, that it was application and business they 
were to expect assistance in, as much as in any thiog 
eise ; and she proved the best wife of all the parcel« 

When the poor women saw themselves set in a row 
thus, and fetched out one by one, the terrors of theb 
condition retumed on them again, and they fimily 
beliaved they were now going to be devoured, Aß% 



OF ROBINSON CRVSOK« 75 

ccKdingly, when the Eoglish sailor came io and fetched 
oat die of them, the rest set up a most lamentable 
ety, and hung about her, and took their leare of her 
with such agonies and affection, as woold have grieved 
Ihe hardest heart in the world ; nor was it possible for 
the Englishmen to satisfy them that they were not to 
be immediately murdered, tili they fetol^ the cid 
man, Friday's father, who immediately let them know 
tfamt the fiye men, who had fetched them out one by 
one, had chosen them for their wives. 

When they had done, and the fright the wome» 
were in was a little over, the men went to work, and 
tbe Spaniards came and helped them ; and in a few 
bours they had built them every one a new hut or 
tent for their lodging apart; for those they had al- 
leady were crowded wiüi their tools, household stuff, 
«nd proYisions. The three wicked ones had [Mtched 
Cirthest off, and the two honest ones nearer, but both 
OD the north shore of the island, so that they conti** 
mued separated as before; and thus my island was 
peopled in three places ; and, as I might say, three 
lowns were begun to be built. 

And here it is very well worth obsenring, that, as 
it often happens in the world, (what the wise ends of 
God's providence are in such a disposition of things I 
cannot say,) the two honest fellows had the two worst 
wiTes; and the three reprobates, that were scarce 
worth hanging, that were fit for nothing, and neither 
•eemed born to do themselves good, nor any one eise, 
had three clever, diligent, careful, and ingenious 
wiyes ; not that the first two were bad wires, as to 
dieir temper or humour, for all the five were most 
willing, quiet, passive, and subjected creatures, rather 
like slaves than wives ; but my meaning is, they were 
Bot alike capable, ingenious, or industrions, or alike 
cleanly and neat. 

Another Observation I most make, to the honour of 
a diligent application oa on« band, aad ta tha diir« 



90 LIFE AKD ADVENTURES 

grace of a slothful, negligent, idle temper, on th^ 
other, that when I came to the place, and viewed 
the several improvements, plantings, and managemeilt 
of the several little colonies, the two men had so fiur 
outgone the three, that there was no comparisoDi 
They had, indeed, both of them as much ground laid 
Out for corn as they wanted, and the reason was» 
beoause, according to my rule, nature dictated that it 
was to no purpose to sow more corn than they wanted ; 
but the difierence of the cultivation, of the plantings 
of the fences, and, indeed, of every thing eise, was 
easy to be seen at first view. 

The two men had innumerable young trees planted 
about their huts, so that when you came to the place, 
nothing was to be seen but a wood : and though they 
had twice had their plantation demolished, once by 
their own countrymen, and once by the enemy, ad 
shall be shown in its place, yet they had restored all 
again, and every thing was thriving and flourishioff 
about them : they had grapes planted in order, and 
managed like a vineyard, though they had themselvefl 
never seen any thing of that kind ; and by their good 
ordering their vines, their grapes were as good again 
as any of the others. They had also found themselves 
out a retreat in the thickest part of the woods : where, 
tliough there was not a natural cave, as I had found/ 
yet they made one with incessant labour of their hands« 
and where, when the mischief which followed hap-> 
pened, they secured their wives and children, so as 
they could never be found ; they having, by sticking 
innumerable stakes and poles of the wood which, as I 
Said, grew so readily, made the grove unpassable, ex-* 
cept in some places, where they climbed up to get 
over the outside part, and tben went on by ways of 
their own leaving« 

As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them^ 
though they were much civil ized by their settlement, 
compared to what they were before, and wete not 8<k 



OF KOBINSON CRUSOE, 77 

fuarrelsome, having not the same opportunity ; yet 
DDe of the certain companions of a profligate mind 
never left them, and tbat was their idleness. It 19 
true, they planted com, and made fences; but Solo« 
aion*s words were never better verified than in them» 
'* I went by the vineyard of the slothful, and it was 
all overgrown with thorns ;'' for when the Spaniards 
came to yiew their crop, they could not see it in somo 
places for weeds ; the hedge had several gaps in it^ 
wrhere the wild goats had got in and eaten up the 
Dorn ; perhaps here and there a dead bush was crammed 
in, to stop them out for the present, but it was 
only shutting the stable-door after the steed was stolen ; 
w^hereas, when they looked on the colony of the other 
two, there was the very face of industry and succe^ 
on all they did ; there was not a weed to be seen in 
all their corn, or a gap in any of their hedges; and 
tbey, on the other band, verified Solomon's words in 
another place, '' that the diligent band maketh rieh ;'' 
for every thing grew and thrived, and they had plenty 
within and without ; they had more tarne cattle than 
tbe others, more Utensils and necessaries within doors, 
and yet more pleasure and diversion too. 

It is true, the wives of the three were very handy 
and cleanly within doors; and having learned the 
£aglish ways of dressing and cooking from one of the 
other Englishmen, who, as I said, was a cook's-mate 
on board the ship, they dressed their husbands' yictuala 
very nicely and well ; whereas the others could not be 
brought to understand it ; but then the husband, who, 
as I say, had been cook's-mate, did it himself. But 
as for the husbands of the three wives, they loitered 
about, fetched turtles' eggs, and caught fish and birds ; 
10 a Word, any thing but labour, and they fared ac- 
Dordingly. The diligent lived well and comfortably ; 
uid the slothful lived hard and beggarly ; and so, I 
believe, generally speaking, it is all over the wocld. 

But I now come to a scene different from atl thai 



78 LIFE AND ADVEKTURES 

faad happened before, either to them or to me ; and 
the origin of the stoij was this : Early one morning, 
there came on shore nve or six canoes of Indians or 
iavagesy call tbem which you please, and there is nö 
roonoL to doubt they came on the old errand of feeding 
on tbeir slaves ; but that part was now so familiär to 
the Spaniards, and to our men too, that they did not 
concern themselves abont it, &s I did : but having 
been made sensible, by their experience, that their 
only business was to lie concealed, and that if they 
were not seen by any of the savages, they would go 
off again quietly, when their business was done, ha- 
ving, as yet, not the least notion of their being any 
inhabitants in the island ; I say, having been made 
sensible of this, they had nothing to do but give notice 
to all the three plantations to keep within doors, and 
not show themselves, only placing a scout in a proper 
place, to give notice when the boats went to sea 
again. 

This was, without doubt, very right ; but a disaster 
spoiled all these measures, and made it known among 
the savages that there were inhabitants there ; which 
was, in the end, the desolation of almost the whole 
colony. ' After the canoes with the savages were gone 
off, the Spaniards peeped abroad again ; and some of 
them had the curiosity to go to the place where they 
had been, to see what they had been doihg. Here, 
to their great surprise, they found three savages left 
behind, and lying fast asleep on the ground. It was 
supposed they had either been so gorged with their 
inhuman feast, that, like beasts, they were fallen 
asleep, and would not stir when the others went, or 
they heul wandered into the woods, and did not come 
back in time to be taken in. 

The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, 
and perfectly at a loss what to do. The Spanish go- 
vernor, as it happened, was with them, and his advioe ; 
was askedy but he professed he knew not what to do. : 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ?9 

As for slaves, they had enough already ; and as to 
killing them, they were none of them inclined to that : 
tke Spaaiard governor told me» they could not thiok 
of shedding innocent blood : for as to them, the poor 
creatures had done them no wrong, invaded none of 
% tfaeir property, and they thought they had no just 
qoarrel against them, to take away their lives. And 
here I must, in justice to these Spaniards, observe, 
. that let the aecounts of Spanish cruelty in Mexico and 
: Peru be what they will, I never met with seventeen 
' men of any nation whatsoever, in any foreign country^ 
who were so universally modest, temperate, yirtuouSy 
lo very good-humoured, and so courteous, as these 
Spaniards ; and as to cruelty, they had nothing of it in 
their very nature : no inhumanity, no barbarity, no 
outrageous passions ; and yet all of them men of great 
courage and spirit. Their temper and calmness had 
I mppeared in their bearing the insufferable usage of the 
I three Englishnien ; and their justice and humanity ap^ 
i peared now in the case of the savages, as aboye. Af-^ 
< ter some consultation, they resolved on this ; that they 
would lie still a while longer, tili, if possible, these 
three men might be gone. But then the governor Spa- 
Qiard recoUected, that the three savages had no boat ; 
and if they were left to rove about the Island, they 
would certainly discover that there were inhabitants in 
it ; and so they should be undone that way. On this 
they went back again, and there lay the fcUows fast 
asleep still, aiid so they resolved to awaken them, and 
take them prisoners ; and they did so. The poor fel- 
lows were strangely frightened when they were seized 
on and bound ; and afraid, like the women, that they 
should be murdered and eaten: for it seems, those 
people think all the world does as they do, eating 
men's flesh ; but they were soon made easy as to that, 
and away they carried them. 

It was very happy for them that they did not carry 
them bome to their castle, I mean to my paläce andet 



60 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

* 

the hill; but they ca^ried them first to the bowe^ 
where was the chief of their country work, such as Uk 
keeping the goats, the planting the corn, &c. ; and al 
terwards they carried them to the habitation of the i^ 
£i3glishinen. 

Here they were set to work, thoügh it was not 
much they had for them to do ; and whether it was 
by neghgence in guarding them, or that they thought 
the fellows could not mend themselves, I know not, 
but one of them ran away, and taking to the woo<ky 
they could never hear of him any more, 

They had good reason to believe he got home again 
soon after, in some other boats or canoes of savages 
who came on shore three or four weeks afterwardb ; 
and who, carrying on their revels as usual, went off in 
two days' time. This thought terrified them exceed- 
ingly ; for they concluded, and that not without good 
cause indeed, that if this fellow came home safe 
among his comrades, he would certainly give them an 
account that there were people in the isiand, and also 
how few and weak they were ; for this savage^ as I 
observed before, had never been told, and it was very 
happy he had not, how many there were, or where 
they iiyed ; nor had he ever seen or heard the fire of 
any of their guns, much less had they shown him any 
of their other retired places ; such as the cave in the 
Valley, or the new retreat wbich the two Englishmen 
had made, and the like. 

The first testimony they had that this fellow had 
given intelligence of them was, that about two months 
after this, six canoes of savages, with about seven, 
eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing along the 
north side of the island, where they never used to 
come before, and landed, about an hour after sun-rise, 
at a convenient place, about a mile from the habita* 
tion of the two Englishmen, where this escaped man 
had been kept. As the Spaniard governor said, had 
they been all there, the damage would not have been 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. . 81 

80 much, for not a man of them would bave escaped : 
but the case differed now very much, for two men to 
fifty was too much odds. The two men had the hap- 
piness to discover them about a league ofF, so that it 
was above an hour before they landed ; and as they 
landed a mile from their huts, it was some time before 
they could come at them. Now, having great reason 
tobelieve that they were betrayed, the first thing they 
they did was to bind the two slaves which were left, 
and cause two of the three men whom they brought 
with the women (who, it seems, proved very faithful 
to them) to lead them, with their two wives, and 
whatever they could carry away with them, to their 
retired places in the woods, which I haye spoken of 
aboYe, and there to bind the two fellows band and 
foot, tili they heard farther. 

In the next place, seeing the savages were all come 
on shore, and that they had bent their course directly 
that way, they opened the fences where the milch- 
goats were kept, and drove them all out, leaving their 
goats to straggle in the woods, whither they pleased, 
that the savages might think they were all bred wild ; 
but the rogue who came with them was too cunning 
for that, and gave them an account of it all, for they 
went directly to the place. 

When the two poor frightened men had secured 
their wives and goods, they sent the other slave they 
had of the three who came with the women, and who 
was at their place by accident, away to the Spaniards 
with all speed, to give them the alarm, and desire 
speedy help ; and, in the mean time, they took their 
arms, and what ammunition they had, and retreated 
iowards the place in the wood where their wives were 
sent ; keeping at a distance, yet so that they might 
aee, if possible, which way the savages took. 

They had not gone far, but that from a rising 
ground they could see the little army of their enemies 
on directly to their babitationi and, in a m<w 
vou !!• ^ 



82 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ment more, could see all their huts and household 
stuff flaming up together, to their great grief and mor- 
tification : for they had a very great loss, to them 
irretrievable, at least for some time. They kept their 
Station for a while, tili they found the savages, like 
wild beasts, spread themselves all over the place, 
rummaging every way, and every place they could 
think of, in search of prey ; and in particular for the 
people, of whom, now, it plainly appeared they had 
intelligence. 

The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking them- 
selves not secure where they stood, because it was 
likely some of the wild people might come that way, 
and they might come too many togetiier, thought it 
proper to make another retreat about half a mile far- 
ther : believing, as it afterwards happened, that the 
farther they strolled, the fewer would be together* 

Their next halt was at the entrance into a very 
thick-grown part of the woods, and where an old 
trunk of a tree stood, which was hollow and vastly 
large ; and in this tree they both took their standing, 
resolving to see there what might offer. They had 
not stood there long, before two of the savages ap> 
peared running directly that way, as if they already 
had notice where they stood, and were Coming up to 
attack them ; and a little way farther they espied 
three more Coming after them, and üve more beyond 
them, all coming the same way : besides which, they 
saw seven or eight more at a distance^ running an- 
other way ; for, in a word, they ran every way, like 
sportsmen beating for their game. 

The poor men were now in great perplexity whe- 
ther they shouid stand aiid keep their posture, or fly ; 
but, after a very short debate with themselves, they 
considered, that if the savages ranged the country 
thus before help came, they might perhaps find out 
their retreat in the woods, and then all would be lost ; 
80 they resolved to stand them there; and if they 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 88 

were too many to deal with, then they would get up 
to the top of the tree, irom whence they doubted not 
to defend themselves, fire excepted, as long as their 
ammunition lasted, though all the savages that were 
landed, which was near tifty, were to attack them. 

Having resolved on this, they next considered whe- 
ther they should fire at the first two> or wait for the 
three, and so take the middle party, by which the two 
and the five that followed would be separated ; at 
length they resolved to let the first two pass by, un- 
less they should spy them in the tree, and come to 
attack them. The first two savages confirmed them 
also in this resolution, by turning a little from them 
towards another part of the wood ; but the three, and 
the üve after them, came forward directly to the tree, 
as if they had known the Englishmen were there. 
8eeing them come so straight towards them, they re- 
solved to take them in a line as they came ; and as 
they resoWed to fire but one at a time, perhaps the 
first shot might hit them all three : for which pur- 
pose, the man who was to fire put three or four small 
tmllets into his piece ; and having a fair loop-hole, as 
it were, from a broken hole in the tree, he took a sure 
aim, without being seen, waiting tili they were within 
about thirty yards of the tree, so that he could not 
jniss. 

Wbile they were thus waiting, and the savages 
came on, they plainly saw tiiat one of the three was 
the runaway savage that had escaped fromi them ; and 
they both knew him difdnctly, and resolved that, if 
possible, he should not «scape, though they should 
both fire; so the other stood ready with his piece, 
that if he did not drop at the first shot, he should be 
snre to have a secona. But the first «was too good a 
Toarksmaii to miss his aim ; for as the savages kept 
near one another, a little behind, in a line, he fired, 
and hit two of them directly : the foremost was killed 
outright, belog shot in the head ; the aecoad^ ^^v^ 



84 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

was the runaway Indian, was shot through the body, 
and feil; but was not quite dead ; and the third had a 
little Scratch in the Shoulder, perhaps by the same 
ball that went through the body of the second ; and 
being dreadfully frightened, though not so much hurt, 
sat down on the ground, screaming and yeliing in a 
hideous manner. 

The five that were behind, more frightened with 
the noise than sensible of the danger, stood still at 
first ; for the woods made the sound a thousand times 
bigger than it really was, the echoes rattling from one 
side to ariother, and the fowls rising from all partsr; 
screaming, and every sort making a diflerent noise, 
according to their kind ; just as it was when I fired 
the first gun that perhaps was ever shot off in tbe 
islaud. 

Howeyer, all being silent again, and they not know- 
ing what the matter was, came on unconcerned, tili 
they came to the place where their companions lay, 
in a coudition miserable enough ; and here the poor 
Ignorant creatures, not sensible that they were wiUiin 
reach of the same mischief, stood all of a huddle OYtt 
the wounded man, talking, and, as may be supposed, 
inquiring of bim how he came to be hurt ; and who, 
it is very rational to believe, told them, that a flash 
of fire first, and immediately after that thunder from 
their gods, had killed those two and wounded him ; 
this, I say, is rational ; for nothing is more certain 
than that, as they saw no man near them, so they had 
neyer heard a gun in all their lives, nor so mach as 
heard of a gun ; neither kuew they any thing of kill- 
ing and wounding at a distance with fire and buUets : 
if they had, one might reasonably believe they would 
not have stood so unconcerned in viewing thefate of 
their fellows, without some apprehensions of their 
own. 

Cur two men, though, as they confessed to me, it 
grieyed them to be obliged to kill so many poor crea- 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. 85 

tures, who, at the same time, had no notion of their 
danger ; yet, having them all thus in their power, and 
the first having loaded bis piece again, resolved to let 
fly both together among them ; and singling out, by 
agreement, wbich to aim at, they shot together, ana 
killed, or very much wounded, four of them; the 
fifth, frightened e^en to death, though not hurt, feil 
with the rest; so that our men seeing them all fall 
together, thought they had killed them all. 

The belief that the savages were all killed made 
our two men come boldly out from the tree before 
they had charged their guns, which was a wrong step ; 
and they were under some surprise when they came to 
the place, and found no less than four of them alive, 
and of them two very little hurt, and one not at all : 
this obliged them to fall on them with the Stocks of 
their muskets ; and first they made sure of the run- 
away savage, that had been the cause of all the mis- 
chief, and of another that was hurt in the knee, and 
jpnt them out of their pain : then the man that was 
not hurt at all oame and kneeled down to them, with 
kk two hands held up, and made piteous moans to 
them, by gestures and signs, for bis life, but could 
not say one word to them that they could understand. 
Howeyer, they made signs to bim to sit down at the 
foot of a tree hard by ; and one of the Englishmen, 
H^ith a piece of rope twined, which he had by great 
ohance in his pocket, tied bis two hands behind him, 
and there they left him ; and with what speed they 
could made after the other two, which were gone 
before, fearing they, or any more of them, should find 
the way to their covered places in the woods, where 
their wives, and the few goods they had left, lay. 
They came once in sight of the two men, but it was 
at a great distance ; however, they had the satisfac« 
tion to see them cross over a Valley towards the sea, 
quite the contrary way from that which led to their 
letreat^ which they were afraid of ; and being satisfied 



W LUE AND ADVENTVRB8 

witk ttmt, they went baok to the tree where they left' 
their prisoner^ who, as they supposed, was ileUya?ed 
by kis comrades, for he was gone, and Usie two pieoes 
of rope-yarn, with which Ihey had bound him, lay 
just at the foot of the tree. > 

They were now in as great ooncern as before, Bot 
knowing wbat course to take, or how «ear the enemy 
might be, or in what numbers ; so they resolved to gd 
away to the place where their wives were, to see if all 
was well there, and to make them easy, who were in 
fright enough to be sure ; for though the savages were 
their own conntry-folk, yet they were most terribly 
afraid of them, and perhaps the more for the kaow- 
lege they had of them. 

When they came there, they found the savages had 
beea in the wood, and very near that place, but had 
not found it : for it was indeed inaccessible, by the 
trees standing so thiek, as before, unless the persona 
seeking it had been direeted by those that knew it, 
which these were not : they found, therefore, every 
thing rery safe, only the women in -a terrible fright 
While they were here, they had the comfort to hav« 
seven of the Spaniards come to their assistance ; Uie 
other ten, with their servants, and old Friday, I mean 
friday's father, were gone in a body to defend their 
bower, and the corn and cattle that was kept there, in 
case the savages should have roved over to that side 
of the country ; but they did not spread so far. With 
the seven Spaniards came one of the three savages» 
who, as I Said, were their prisonei*s formerly : and 
with them also came the savage whom the Cnglish- 
Bien had left bound hand and foot at the tree ; for il 
seems they came that way, saw the slaughter of the 
seven men, and unbound the eighth, and brought him 
along with them ; where, however, they were obliged 
to bind him again, as they had the two others who 
were left when the third ran away. 

The prisoners now began to be a burthen to them ; 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE; 87 

•ad they -were so afiraid of their escaping, that tfaej 
were once resolvtng to kill them all, belle ving Ihej 
wereunder an absolute necessity to do so, for their 
own preservation. However, the Spaniard goveraor 
wpuH not consent to it ; but ordered, for the present, 
AaI they should be sent out of the way, to my old 
cave in the valley, and be kept there, with two Spa- 
niards to guard them ; and give them food for their 
«obsistence, which was done ; and they were bound 
tbere band and foot for that night. 

When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen 
were so encouraged, that they could not satisfy them- 
8e)ves to stay any longer there ; but taking (ive of the 
Spaniards and themselves, with four muskets and a 
pistol among them, and f wo stout quarter-staves, away 
tliey went in quest of the savages. And first they 
came to the tree where the men lay that had been 
killed; but it was easy to see that some more of the 
savages had been there, for they had attempted to 
carry their dead men away, and had dragged two of 
them a good way, but had given it over. From thence 
Aej advanced to the first rising ground, where they 
had stood and seen their camp destrayed, and where 
they had the mortification still to see some of the 
smoke : but neither could they here see any of the 
savages. They then resolved, though with all possible 
eaution, to go forward, towards their ruined planta- 
tion ; but a little before they came thither, Coming in 
sight of the sea-shore, they saw plainly the savages all 
«mbarked again in their cauoes, in order to be gone. 
They seemed sorry, at first, that there was no way to 
come at them, to give them a partin^ blow ; but, on 
the whole, they were very well satished to be rid of 
tfiem. 

The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, and 
all their improvements destroyed, the rest all agreed 
to come and help them to rebuild, and to assist them 
with needful supplies. Their three countrymen, who 



88 LIFE AND ADVENTURBS 

were not yet noted for having the least inclination to 
do any good, yet as soon as they heard of it, (for they 
living remote eastward, knew nothing of the matter- 
tili all was oyer,) came and oflered their help and 
assistance, and did, very friendly, work for several 
days, to restore their habitation, and make necessaries 
for them. And thus, in a little time, they were set on 
their legs again. 

About two days after this, they had the farther 
satisfaction of seeing three of the savages' canoes come 
driying on shore, and, at some distance from them, 
two drowned men : by which they had reason to be- 
lieve that they had met with a storm at sea, wlnch 
had overset some of them ; for it had blown very hard 
the night after they went off. 

However, as some might miscarry, so, on the other 
band, enough of them escaped to inform the rest, as 
well of what they had done as of what had happened 
to them, and to whet them on to another enterprise of 
the same nature ; which they, it seems, resolved to 
attempt, with sufficient force to carry all before them : 
for except what the first man had told them of inha« 
bitants, they could* say little of it of their own know* 
iedge, for they never saw one man ; and the fellow 
being killed that had affirmed it, they had no other 
witness to confirm it to them. 

It was five or six months after this before they 
heard any more of the savages, in which time our men 
were in hopes they had either forgot their former bad 
luck, or given over hopes of better ; when, on a sud- 
den, they were invaded with a most formidable fleet 
of no less than eight and twenty canoes, füll of sa^ 
vages, armed with bows and arrows, great clubs, 
wooden swords, and such-like engines of war; and 
they brought such numbers with them, that, in short, 
it put all our people into the utmost consternation. 

As they came on shore in the evening, and at the 
eastemmost side of the island, our men had that night 



.^fliterfi 



OF ROBINSON CRT3S0E. 80 

to oonsult and consider what to do ; and, in the first 
place, knowing that their being entirely concealed was 
their only safety before, and would be much more so 
now, whiie the number of their enemies was so great, 
they thereföre resolved, first of all, to take down the 
huts which were built for the two Englishmen, and 
drive away their goats to the old cave ; because they 
supposed the savages would go directly thither, as 
soon as it was day, to play the old game ovex ägain, 
though they did not now land within two leagues of 
it. In the next place, they drove away all the flocks 
of goats they had at the old bower, as I called it, 
which belonged to the Spaniards ; and, in short, left 
as little appearance of inhabitants any where as was 
posslble : and the next morning early they posted 
themselves, with all their force, at the plantation of 
the two men, to wait for their coming. As they 
guessed, so it happened : these new invaders leaving 
their canoes at the east end of the island, came ran- 
ging along the shore, directly towards the place, tQ the 
number of two hundred and fifty, as near as our men 
coold jadge. Our army was but small, indeed; but 
that which was worse, they had not arms for all their 
number neither. The whole account, it seems, stood 
thas : first, as to men, seventeen Spaniards, five En-. 
glishmen, old Friday, or Friday's father, the three 
äaves taken with the women, who proved very faith- 
fiil, and three other slaves, who lived with the Spa- 
nifurds. To arm these, they had eleven muskets, nve 
pistols, three fowling-pieces, five muskets, or fowling- 
pieces, which were taken by me from the mutinous 
seamen whom I reduced, two swords, and three old 
halberds. 

To their slaves they did not give either musket or 
fusee, but they had every one a halberd, or a long 
stafiT, like a quarter-staft, with a great spike of iron 
ÜEistened into each end of it, and by his side a hatchet ; 
also erery one of our men had a hatchet, Two of tUe 



90 LIFE AND ADVBNTUItBS 

women could not be prevailed ob but Üiey wonld oom^ 
into the fight, and they had bows and arrows, whkh 
the Spaniards had taken from the savages when the 
iirst action happened, which I have spoken of, wkere 
the Indians fought with one another ; and the wom^ 
had hatchets too. 

The Spantard governor, whom I.described so ofteit 
commanded the whole ; and Will Atkins, who, though 
a dreadful fei low for wickedness, was a most daring, 
bold fellow, commanded under him« The savages came 
for ward like lions ; and our men, which was the woist 
of their fate, had no adyantage in their Situation ; cohp 
that Will Atkins, who now proved a most useful fei* 
low, with six men, was planted just behind a small 
thicket of bushes, as an advanced guard, with orden 
to let the first of them pass by, and then fire into the 
middle of them, and as soon as he had fired, to make 
his retreat as nimbly as he could round a part of the 
wood, and so come in behind the Spaniards, where 
they stood, having a thicket of trees before them. 

When the savages came on, they ran straggling 
about every way in heaps, out of all manner of oHrder, 
and Will Atkins let about fifty of them pass by him ; 
then seeing the rest come in a very thick throng, he 
Orders three of his men to fire, having ioaded their 
muskets with six or seven buUets apiece, about as big 
as large pistol-buUets. How many they killed or 
wounded they knew not, but the consternation and 
i^rprise was inexpressible among the savages ; thef 
were frightened to the last degree to hear such a dread- 
ful noise, and see their men killcd, and others hart, 
but see nobody that did it ; when, in the middle df 
their fright, Will Atkins and his other three let fly 
again among the thickest of them : and in less than a 
minute the first three being Ioaded again, gave them t 
third volley. 

Had Will Atkins and his men retired immediately» 
aa soon as they had fired, as they were ordered to Ah 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 91 

or kad the rest of the body been at band, tö have' 
poured in their shot continualiyy tbe savages bad been 
eff?ctualiy routed ; for the terror tbat was ämong tbem 
came principaily from this, viz. tbat tbey were killed 
by tbe gods witb thunder and ligbtniog, and eould see 
nobody tbat burt tbem ; but Will Atkios, staying ta 
load again, discovered tbe ebeat ; some of tbe savages 
wbo were at a distance spying tbem, came on tbem be- 
hind ; and tbougb Atkins and bis men fired at tbem 
also, two or tbree times, and killed above twenty, re- 
tirmg as fast as tbey could, yet tbey wounded Atkins 
himselfy and killed one of bis fellow Englisbmen witb 

' their mrrows, as tbey did afterwards one Spaniard, and 
one of the Indian slaves wbo came witb tbe women. 
lliis slave was a most gallant fellow, and fougbt most 
desperately, killing five of tbem witb bis own baod, 
having no weapon but one of tbe armed staves and a 
hatcbet. 

Our men being tbus bard laid at, Atkins wounded, 
and two otber men killed, retreated to a rising grouod 
in tbe wood ; and tbe Spaniards, after firing tbree vol- 
ley» OB tbem, retreated also ; for their number was so 
Seat, and tbey were so desperate, tbat tbougb above 
ij of tbem were killed, and more tban as many 
wounded, yet tbey came on in tbe teetb of our men, 
fearleas of danger, and shot their arrows like a cloud ; 
tnd it was observed that their wounded men, wbo were 

, not quite disabled, were made outrageous by their 
wounds, and fougbt like madmen. 

TVhen our men retreated, tbey left tbe Spaniard and 

t the Englisbman tbat were killed bebind tbem ; and the 
«ITB^^, wben tbey came up to tbem, killed tbem 
orer again in a wretched manner, breaking their arms, 

S;s, and beads, witb their clubs and wooden swords, 
e tme savages; but finding our men were gone, 
they did not seem to pursue tbem, but drew tbemselves 
up ia a ring, which is, it seems, their custom, and 
^ flbouted twioe, in token of their victory ; after which« 
i 



92 LIFE AND ADVBNTURES 

they had the mortification to see several of tbeit 
wounded men fall, dying with the mere loss of blood. 
The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body 
up together on a rising ground, Atkins, though be was 
wounded, would have had them march and charge 
again all together at once : but the Spaniard replied, 
*^ Seignior Atkins, you see how their wounded mei 
fight: let them alone tili morning; all the wounded , 
men will be stiff and sore with their wounds, and faint 
with the loss of blood ; and so we shall have the fewer 
to engage." This advice was good ; but Will Atkins 
replied merrily, ^' That is true, Seignior, and so shall 
I too ; and that is the reason I would go on while I 
am warm." — " Well, Seignior Atkins,'^ says the Spa- 
niard , ** you haye behaved gallantly, and done yonr 
part ; we will fight for you, if you cannot come on ; 
but I think it best to stay tili inorning :" so they 
waited. 

But as it was a clear rooon-light night, and they 
found the savages in great disorder about their deaa 
and wounded men, and a great noise and hurry amoni 
them where they lay, they afterwards resolved to ftU 
on them in the night ; especially if they could come ta 
give them but one volley before they were discovered, 
which they had a fair opportunity to do ; for one of 
the Englishmen, in whose quarter it was where the 
fight began, led them round between the woods and 
the sea-side westward, and then turning short south, 
they came so near where the thickest of them lay, 
that, before they were seen or heard, eight of them 
fired in among them, and did dreadful execution on 
them ; in half a minute more, eight others fired after 
them, pouring in their small shot in such a quaiH 
tity, that abundance were killed and wounded ; and all 
this while they were not able to see who hurt them, or 
which way to fly. 

The Spaniards charged again with the utmost ezpo- 
dition, and then divided themselves in three bodies^ 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE« 03 

and resolved to fall in among them all together. They 
had in each body eight persons, that is to say, twenty- 
two men, and two women, who, by the wäy, fought 
desperately. They divided tbe fire-arms equally in 
eacn party, and so the halberds and staves. They 
would have had the women kept back, but they said 
they were resolved to die with their husbands. Ha- 
▼ing thus formed their little army, they marched out 
firom among the trees, and came up to the teeth of the 
enemy, shouting and hallooing as lond as they could : 
the sayages stood all together, but were in the utmost 
confusion, hearing the noise of our men shouting from 
three quarters together : they would have fought if 
they had seen us ; for as soon as we came near enough 
to be Seen, some arrows were shot, and poor old Fri- . 
day was wounded, though not dangerously ; but our 
men gave them no time, but running up to them, fired 
among them three ways, and then feil in with the butt 
ends of their muskets, their swords, armed staves, and 
hatchets, and laid about them so well, that, in a word, 
they set up a dismal screaming and howling, flying to 
save their lives which way soever they could. 

Our men were tired with the execution, and kiAed 
or mortally wounded in the two fights about one hnn- 
dred and eighty of them ; the rest, being frightened 
out of their wits, scoured through the woods and over 
the hills, with all the speed fear and nimble feet could 
help them to ; and as we did not trouble ourselv^ 
much to pursue them, they got all together to the sea- 
side where they landed, and where their canoes lay. 
ISui their disaster was not at an end yet ; for it blew a 
terrible storm of wind that evening from the sea, so 
that it was impossible for them to go off; nay, the storm 
cootinuing all night, when the tide came up, their ca- 
noes were most of them driven by the surge of the sea 
so high on the shore, that it required infinite toil to 
get them off ; and some of them were even dashed 
I lo pieces against the beach, or against one anotben . 



94 LIFE AND ABVENTURES 

Our men, though glad of their victory, yet got little 
fest that night ; but having refreshed themseWes as 
i^ell as they could, they resolved to march to tiwi 
part of the Island where the sayages were ded, and see 
what posture they were in. This necessarily led tfaetid 
.over the place where the fight had been, and wbere 
they found seyeral of the poor creatures not qnite 
dead, and yet past recovering life ; a sight disagree- 
able enough to generous minds ; for a truly great msn, 
though öbliged by the law of battle to destroy his ene- 
my, takes no delight in his misery. Howerer, there 
was no need to give any Orders in this case ; for their 
own savages, wbo were their servants, dispatched these 
poor creatures with their faatchets. 

At length, they came in view of the place where the 
more miserable remains of the sa vages' army lay, 
where there appeared about a hundred still : their pos- 
ture was generally sitting on the ground, with their 
knees up towards their mouth, and the head put be- 
tween the two hands, leaning down on the knees. 

When our men came within two musket-shots of 
them, the Spaniard governor ordered two muskets to 
be fired without ball, to alarm them : this he did, that 
by their countenance he might know what to expect, 
viz. whether they were still in heart to fight, or were 
so heartily beaten as to be dispirited and discouraged, 
and so he might manage accordingly. This stratagem 
took ; for as soon as the sayages heard the first gun 
and saw the flash of the second, they started up on 
their feet in the greatest consternation imaginable : 
and as our men advanced swiftly towards them, they 
all ran screaming and yelling away, with a kind m 
howling noise, which our men did notunderstand^and 
had never heard before ; and thus they ran up the hilk 
into the country. 

At first our men had much rather the weather had 
been calm, and they had all gone away to sea ; bot 
they did not then consider that this might probably 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB, 06 

htßve been the occasion of their Coming again in sach 
miiltitudes as not to be resisted, or, at least, to come so 
maMky, tmd so often, as would quite desolate the island, 
Mid starve them. Will Atkins, therefore, whOy not- 
withstanding his wound, kept always with them, 
pcoved the best counsellor in this case : his advice was, 
to take the advantage that offered, and clap in between 
them and their boats, and so deprive them of the capa- 
citr of erer returning any more to plague tiie island. 

They consulted long about this; and some were 
against it, for fear of making the wretches fly to the 
woods and live there desperate, and so they should 
ba¥e them to hunt like wild beasts, be afraid to stir 
out about their business, and have their plantation 
continually rifled, all their tarne goats destroyed, and, 
in Short, be redueed to a life of continual distress. 

Will Atkins told them they had better have to do 
with a hundred men than with a hundred nations : 
that as they must destroy their boats, so they must de- 
stroy the men, or be all of them destroy ed themselves. 
In a Word, he showed them the necessity of it so 
plainly, that they all came into it ; so they went to 
work immediately with the boats, and getting some 
dry wood together from a dead tree, they tried to set 
some of them on fire, but they were so wet that they 
would not bum ; however, the fire so burned the Up- 
per part, that it soon made them unfit for swimming 
iD the sea as boats. When the Indians saw what they 
were about, some of them came running out of the 
woods, and Coming as near as they could to our men, 
kneeled down and cried, ** Ca, Ca, Waramokoa,'' 
aad some other words of their language, which none 
of the others understood any thing of ; but as they 
OMde pitiful gestures and stränge noises, it was easy 
to understand they begged to have their boats spared, 
•nd that they would be gone, and never come there 
again. But our men were now satisfied that they had 
Bo way to preserve themselves^ or to save their oolony, 



96 LIFE AND ADVBNTURES^ 

but effectually to prevent any of these people from 
ever going home again: depending on this,. thai if 
eyen so much as one of them got back intp their 
country to teil the story, the colony was undone ; li 
that, letting them know that they sbould not have aiy 
mercy, they feil to work with their canoes, and di^ 
stroyed them every one that the storm had notd»« 
stroyed before ; at the sight of which the sarages 
raised a hideous cry in the woods, which our peQ|de 
heard piain enough, after which they ran about the 
Island like distracted men ; so that, in a word, cur mea 
did not really know at first what to do with them. 
Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, coan- 
der, that while they made those people thus desperate, 
they ought to have kept a good guard at the sa^ie 
time on their plantations ; for though, it is true, they 
had driven away their cattle, and the Indians did not 
find out their main retreat, I mean roy old Castle at 
the hill, nor the cave in the Valley, yet they found ont 
my plantation at the bower, and pulled it all to pieces, 
and all the fences and planting about it ; trod all the 
corn under foot, tore up the vines and grapes, being 
just then almost ripe, and did our men an inestimable 
damage, though to themselves not one farthing's worth 
of Service. 

Though our men were able to fight them on all oe- 
casions, ^et they were in no condition to pursue tibem, 
or bunt them up and down; for as they were too 
nimble of foot for our men, when they found thoii 
Single, so our men durst not go abroad single, for fear 
of being surrounded with their numbers. The best 
was, they had no weapons ; for though they had 
bows, they had no arrows left, nor any materials to 
make any ; nor had they any edged tool or weapos 
among them. 

The extremity and distress they were reduced to 
was great, and indeed deplorable ; but^ at the sane 
time, our men yrere also brought to very.bad circon- 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 97 

staoces by them ; for though their retreats were pre- 

aerved, yet their provision was destroyed, anid their 

harvest spoiled; and what to dp, or which way to 

lUTOL themselves, they knew not. The only refuge 

tbey had now was, the stock of cattle they had in the 

Valley by the cave, and some little com which grew 

ihere, and the plantation of the three Englishmen, 

Will Atkins and his comrades, who were nöw re- 

dueed to two ; one of (hem being killed by an arrow, 

which Struck him on the side of his head, just under 

the temples, so that he never spoke more : and it was 

,Yery remarkable, that this was the same barbarous 

fellow that cut the poor savage slave with his hatchet, 

and who afterwards intended to have murdered the 

Spaniards. 

I looked on their case to have been worse at this 
time than mine was at any time, after I first dis- 
covered the grains of barley and rice, and got into the 
manner of pianting and raising my com, and my tarne 
cattle ; for now they had, as I may say, a hundred 
wolves on the island, which wouM devour every thing 
Uiey could come at, yet could be hardly come at 
themselves. 

When they saw what their circumstances were, the 
first thing they concluded was, that they would, if 
poseible, drive them up to the farther part of the 
Island, south-west, that if any more savages came on 
shore they might not find one another : then that they 
would daily hunt and harass them, and kill as many of 
them as they could come at, tili they had reduced 
^eir number ; and if they could at last tarne them, 
and bring them to any thing, they would give them 
com, and teach th^m how to plant, and live on their 
daily labor. ' 

In Order to this, they so foUowed them, and so ter- 

rified thevß with their guns, that in a iew days, if any 

of them fired a gun at an Indian, if he did not hit him, 

yet he would fall down for fear ; and sq dreadfuliy 

VOL. II. <^ 



98 LIFE AND ADVENTÜRteft 

firigfatened they were, that they kept ont of siglit fkr* 
ther and farther ; tili, at last, our men foUowing them, 
and almost every day iLilling or wounding aome q( 
tbem, they kept up in the ivoods or hoUow places b6 
much, that.it reduced them to the utmost misery fo 
want of food ; and many were iafterwärds fouiid deid 
in the woods, without any hurt, absolii|eiy starved t0 
death. 

When our men found this, it made their hearts re- 
lent, and pity moyed them, especially the Spaniaid 
governor, who was the most gentleman-like, generouB' 
-mihded man, that I ever met with in my life ; and he 
proposed, if possible, to take one of them alive, and 
bring him to understand what they meant, so fiur as tb 
be able to act as interpreter, and go'among them, imd 
See if they might be brought to some conditions that 
might be depended on, to save their lives and do na no 
härm. 

It was some while before any of them could be 
taken ; but being weak and half starved^ one of thett 
was at last sui*prised and made a prisoner. He wa» 
suUen at first, and would neither eat nor drink ; bot 
finding himself kindly used, and victuals giyen huB, 
and no violence ofFered him, he at last grew tractable, 
and came to himself. They brought old Friday to 
him, who talked often with him, and told faim how 
kind the others would be to them all ; that they 
would not only save their lives, but would give tJhea 
part of the Island to live in, provided they would fpiH 
satisfaction that they would keep in their own boandi 
and not come beyond it to injure or prejudice others; 
and that they should have com given them to piaril 
and make it grow for their bread, and some hnti 
giyen them for their present subsbtence : and oU 
Friday bade the fellow go and talk with the rest of 
bis countrymen, and see what they said to it ; aaso» 
ring them, that if they did not agree immediately^ ^bof 
should be all destroyed. 



OP ROBINSON CRU80B. 90 

Tlie pöor wretcfaes, thoroughly humbled, and re^- 
duced in number'to about thirty-seven, closed with 
'the proposal at the first offer, and begged to have 
some iood given them t on which, twelve Spaniards 
tand two Englishmen, well anned, with three Indian 
slaves and old Friday, marcfaed to the place where 
they were. The three Indian slaves carried them a 
large quantity of bread, some rice boiled up to cakes 
md dried in the sun, and three live goats ; and tbey 
irere ordered to go to the side of a Hill, where they. 
aat down, ate their provisions very thankfully, and 
"were the most faithtul fellows to their words that 
eottld be thought of ; for, except when they came to 
heg Ttctnals and directions, they never came out of 
tlieir bounds : and there they lived wben I came to 
lihe Island, and I went to see them. , 

They had taught them .both to plant corn, make 
bread, breed tarne goats, and milk them : they wanted 
JM>thing but wives, and they soon would have been a 
aatiott. They were coufined to a neck of land, sur- 
roimded with high rocks behind them, and lying piain 
towards the sea before them, on the south-east corner 
#f the Island. They had land enough, and it was 
wwj good and fruitful; about a mile and a half 
iNTOod, and three or four miles in length. 

Oar men tauglit them to make wooden spades, 
as I made for myself, and gave among them 
twelv« hatchets and three or four knives ; and there 
$kef lired, the most subjected innocent creatures that 
mnrwere heard of. 

Afber this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity 
with respect to the savages tili I came to revisit them, 
whieh was about two years after ; not but that, now 
and then, some canoes of savages came on shore for 
tkelr triumphal, unnatnral feasts ; but as they were of 
•everal nations, and perhaps had never heara of those 
Amt came before, or the reason of it, they did not 
Biake aiiy search or inquiry after their countrymea ; 



■100 XIFE AND ADVENTÜRBfl 

and if they had, it would have been very hard to ^äye 
found them out. « 

Thus, I thihk, I have giyen a füll account'of aH 
that happened to them tili my return, at least» that 
was worth notice. The Indians or savages wer» 
wonderfully civilized by them, and they frequently 
went among them ; but forbid, on pain of death, any 
one of the Indians Coming to them, beeause Üiey 
would not have their settlement betrayed again. One 
thing was yery remarkable; yiz. that they taught the 
savages to make wicker- work, or baskets, but they 
soon outdid their masters ; for they made abundahce 
of most ingenious things in wicker-work, particularly 
fiU sorts of baskets, sie ves, bird-cages, cupboards,<&c.; 
as also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches, and 
abundance ot* other things ; being very ingenioms 
at such work, when they were once put in the way 
of it. 

My Coming was a particular relief to these people, 
beeause we furnished them with knives, scissore» 
spades, shovels, pick-axes, and all things« of that 
kind which they could want. With the help of those 
tools they w^ere so very handy, that they came at last 
to build up their huts, or houses, very handsomely, 
raddling or working it up like basket-work all the 
way round ; which was a very extraordinary piece of 
ingenuity, and looked very odd, but was an exc'eedr 
ing good fence, as well against heat as -against all 
sorts of vermin ; and our men were so taken with it, 
that they got the wild savages to come and do the Jü^ 
for them ; so that when I came to see the two Eng- 
lishmen's colonies, they looked, at a distanee, as if 
they all lived like bees in a hive. As for Will At- 
kins, who was now become a very industrious, useful, 
and sober fellow, he had made himself such a tent of 
basket-work, as, I believe, was never seen-; it was 
one hundred and twenty paces round on the outside, 
ftö I measured by my steps ; the walls were -as close 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* 10t 

worked as a basket, in pannels or Squares of thirty- 
two in number, and very streng, standing about seven- 
feet high : in the middle was another not abov«" 
twenty-two paces round, but l^uilt stronger, being o€- 
tagon in its form, and in the eight corners stood eight 
▼ery streng posts ; round the top of which he lald- 
»Irong pieces, pinned tqgether with wooden pins, from. 
which he raised a pyramid for a roof of eight rafteris, 
▼ery handsome, I assure you, and joined together 
▼ery weil, though he had no nails, and only a few 
iron Spikes, which he made himself too, out of the$ 
old iron that I had left there; and, indeed, this ieU 
low sfaowed abundance of ingenuity in several things 
which he had no kno wiege of : he made him a forge^ 
with a pair of wooden bellows to blow the fire ; he 
made himself charcoal fot his work ; and he formed 
out of the iron crows a middling good anvil to harn-« 
mer on : in this manner he mad^ many things, but 
especially hooks, staples and spikes, bolts and hinges. 
—But, to return to the house : After he had pitched 
the roof of his innermost tent, he worked it up be-> 
tween the rafters with basket- work, so firm, and 
thatched that over again so ingeniously with rice-; 
straw, and over that a large leaf of a tree, which 
Govered the top, that his house was as dry as if it had 
been tiled or slated. Indeed, he owned that the s^ 
▼ages had made the basket- work for him. The outer 
eircuit was covered as a lean-to, all round this inner 
Apartment, and long rafters lay from the thirty-two 
angles to the top posts of the inner house, being about 
Iwenty feet distant ; so that there was a space like a 
walk within the outer wicker wall and without the 
inner, near twenty feet wide. 

The inner place he partitioned off with the same 
wicker-work, but much fairer, and divided into six 
mpartments, so that he had six rooms on a floor, and 
.out of e?ery one of these there was a door ; first into 
the entry» or Coming into the main tent, another door 



102 LIFE AND- ADVBNTURBS 

iiito the main tent, and another door into the space m 
walk that was round it ; so that walk was also divided 
into ,six equal parte, which served not only for a t^ 
k-eaty but to störe up any necessaries which the familj* 
had occasion for. These six Spaces not takinf up tlw 
"^hole circumference, wbat other apartments tbe ovttv 
oircle bad were thus ordered : As soon as you were 'M 
at tbe door of the outer circle, you bad a short paesage 
straight before you to tbe door of the inner bouse ; bil 
on either side was a wicker partition, and a door io jX^ 
by which you went first into a large room, or store^ 
bouse, twenty feet wide, and about tbirty feet toHgj 
and tbrougb that into another, not quite so long ; sd 
tbat in tbe outer circle were ten handsome rooms, m 
of which were only to be come at tbrougb the aparte 
mente of the inner tent, and served as closete or retii 
ring rooms to tbe respectiye Chambers of the imier 
circle ; and four large warehouses, or bams, or wlnt 
you please to call them, which went through ob« 
another, two on either band of the passage, tbat led 
through the outer door to tbe inner tent. 

Such a piece of basket-work, .1 believe, was neyer 
Seen in tbe world, nor a bouse or tent so^ieatly coo- 
trived, much less so built. In this great bee-hiva 
lived tbe three families, that is to say. Will Atkins 
and bis companion ; tbe third was killed, but bis wife 
remained, with three children, for she was, it seeBia^ 
big with child when he died : and tbe other two wen 
<not at all backward to give the widow her fiiU siMune 
of every thing, I mean as to their com, milk, grapea, 
&c. and when they killed a kid, or found a turtle oa 
tbe sbore,; so that they all lived well enougb ; tbongli, 
it was true, they were not so industrious as the o^cr 
two, as has been observed already. 

One thing, boWeyer, cannot be omitted, viz. that 
as for religion, I do not know tbat there was aar 
thing of that kind among them : they often, indeed, 
put one another in mind that there was a God» by the 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 109 

T«ry common method of seamen, yiz. swearing by bis 
fame : oor were their poor Ignorant savage wives much 
Wtter for htaylng been married to Christiaiiß, as we 
■iiiat call tbem ; for as they knew very little of Qod 
thempeWea, so they were i^tterly incapable of enterin^ 
^lato any discourse witb their wives about a God, or to 
tßik any thing to them concerning religion. 

The utmost of all the improvement which I can say 
the wires had made from them was, that they had 
taught Uiem to speak English pretty well ; and most 
of theif childr^n, which were near twenty in all, were 
ttttght to speali; English too, from their first learning 
to speak, tJ^ough they at first spoke it in a very broken 
fnanner, like their mothers. There was none of these 
^hUdren aboye six years old when I came thither, for 
it was not much abo?e seven y^ars that they had 
fp^cbed these five sarage ladies over ; but they had 
|41 been pretty fruitful, for they^had all children, more 
or less ; I think the cook's-mate's wife was big of her 
mzth child ; and the mothers were all a good sqrt of 
well-governed, quiet, laborious women, modest and 
decent, helpful to one another, mighty observant and 
•abject to their masters (I cannot call them husbands), 
Md wanted nothing but to be well instructed in the 
Christian religion, and to be legally married ; both 
which were happily brought about afterwards by my 
IDeaas, or, at least, in consequence of my Coming 
wong them. 

. Haying thus giyen an account of the colony in ge- 
Beral, and pretty much of my renegade English, I 
■1110t say something of the Spaniards, who were the 
SMun body of the family, and in whose story there are 
•ome incidents also remarkable enough. 

I had a great many discourses with them about 
Iheir circumstances when they were among the sa- 
fages. They told me readily that they had no in- 
9lanoes to give of their application or ingenuity in that 
eouDtry ; that they were a poor, miserable, dejected 



104 LtFE AND ADVENTURES 

handful of people; that if means had been put intd 
their hands, yet they had so abaadoned themselves t^ 
despair, and so sunk under the weight of their misfor- 
tune, that they thought of nothing but starving. One 
of them, a grave and sensible man, told me he was 
convinced they were in the wrong ; that it was not 
the part of wise men to give themselves up to their 
misery, but always to take hold of the helps which 
reason ofFered, as well for present support as for future 
deliverance : he told me that grief was the most sense- 
less insignificant passion in the World, for that it re- 
garded only things past, which were generally impo»* 
sible to be recalled or to be remedied, but bad no 
views of things to come, and had no share in any 
thing that looked like deliverance, but rather addea 
to the affliction than proposed a remedy ; and on this 
he repeated a Spanish pro verb, which thou^h Icannot 
repeat in just the same words that he spoke it in, yet 
I remember I made it into an English proverb of my 
own, thus : 

In trouble to be troubled, 

Is to have your trouble doubled. 

He ran on then in remarks on all the little improve- 
ments I had made in my solitude; my unwearied 
application, as he called it ; and how I had made a 
condition which in its circumstances was at ürst much 
worse than theirs, a thousand times more happy tha» 
theirs was, even now when they were all together, 
He told me it was remarkable that Engiishmen had a 
greater presence of mind, in their distress, than any 
people that ever he met with : that their unhappy 
nation and the Portuguese were the worst men in uie 
World to struggle with misfortunes ; for that their first 
Step in dangers, after the common efibrts were over» 
was to despair, lie down under it, and die, withont 
ronsing their thoughts up to proper remedies lov 
escape. 



OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. l05 

' I told bim their case and mine difFered exceedingly ; 
that they were cast on the shore without necessaries, 
without supply of food, or present sustenance tili they 
could provide it ; that, it was true, I had this disad-* 
▼antage and discomfort, that I was alone ; but then 
the supplies I had providentially thrown into my 
hands, by the unexpected drlving of the ship on shore; 
was such a help as would have encouraged any crea- 
ture in the world to have applied himself as I had 
done. ** Seignior," says the Spaniard, " had we poor 
Spaniards been in your case, we should never have 
got half those things out of the ship, asyou did : nay,^ 
says he, ** we should never have found meäns to have 
got a raft to carry them, or to have got the raft 
OD' shore without boat or sail : and höw much less 
should we have done if any of us had been alone !'' 
Well, I desired him to abate bis compliment, and go 
on with the history of their Coming on shore, where 
they landed. He told me they unhappily landed ata 
place where there were people without provisions ; 
whereas, had they had the common sense to have put 
oflf to sea again, and gone to another Island a little far- 
ther,they had found provisions, though without people; 
there being an island that way, as they had been told, 
where there were provisions, though no people ; that 
18 to say, that the Spaniards of Trinidad had fre* 
quently been there, and had filled the island vnth 
guats and hogs at several times, where they had bred 
in such multitudes, and where turtle and sea-fowb 
were in such plenty, that they could have been in no 
want of flesh, thoügh they had found no bread; 
whereas here, th«iy were only sustained with a fev^ 
roots and herbs, which they understood not, and 
which had no substance in them, and which the inha« 
bitants gave them sparingly enough ; and who could 
treat them no better, unless they would turn canni* 
bals, aod eat men's flesh, which was the great dainty 
of their country. 



106 LIFE AND ADVENTURItB 

' They gaye me an account how many nluys they 
strove to civilise the sayages tliey were with, and to' 
teach them rational customs in the ordinary way of 
liying, but in yain ; and how they retorted it on tfcüea^« 
as unjüst, that they, who came there for assiatanot 
and Support, should attempt to set up for inatnictai« 
of those that gaye them food ; intimating, it seems» 
tbat none should set up for the instructors of otben 
but those who could live witbout them. 

They gave me dismal accounts of the extremitiea 
they were driven to ; how sometimes they were many 
days withoiit any food at all, the island they were ob 
being inhabited by a sort of savages that liye4 mora 
indolent, and for that reason were less supplied whk 
the necessaries of life than they had reason to belieta 
Others were in the same part of the world : aiid yel 
they found that these sayages were less ravenous and 
iiroracious than those who had better supplies of food* 
Abo they added, they could not but see witibi.what 
dewonstrations of wisdom and goodness the governing 
providence of G od directs the events of things in tha 
World; which; they said, appeared in their circu»* 
^tances; for if, pressed by the hardships they were 
mider, and the barrenness of the country wherethey 
were, they had searched after a better to live in, they 
fand then been out of the way of the relief that hap« 
pened to them by my means. 

They then gave me an account how the savagea 
whom they lived among expected them to go out wilh 
them into their wars; and, it was true, that as they 
bad fire-arms with them, had they not had the disaa* 
ter to lose their ammunition, they should have beea 
feryiceable not only to their friends, but have made 
themselves terrible both to friends and enemies ; b«t 
being without powder and shot, and yet in a conditioa 
' that they could not in reason deny to go out wtth theif 
landlords to their wars, so when they came into the 
field of battle^ they were in a worse condition thwi tbo 



OW ROBINSON CRVSOE. IQl 

Sftvages themselTes ; for they had neither bows nor ar* 
rows, nor could they use thoee the savages gave them ; 
•o tbey could do nothing but stand still, and bo 
wouaded with arrows, tili they canie up tp the teeth 
of their enemy^ and then> indeed, the three halberda 
ihey had were of use to them ; and they would ofteii 
diive a whole little army before them with those hal-* 
berdsy and sharpened sticks put into the muzzles of 
their muskets : but that, for all this, they were some« 
tiiiies surrounded with multitudes» and in great dangec 
firom their arrows, tili at last they found the way to 
sake themseWes large targets of wood, which they 
covered with skins of wild beasts, whose names they 
ksowBot» and these covered them from the arrows of 
tbe taTages : that» notwithstanding these, they were 
aometimes in great danger; and fiye of them were 
OBce knocked down together with the clubs of the sa^ 
vages, which was the time when one of them wae 
laken prisoner, that is to say , the Spaniard whom I had 
idiev^ : that at first they thought he had been killed ; 
bet when they afterwards heard he was taken prisoB« 
er» they were under the greatest grief imaginable, and 
woiild willingly haTe all Ventura theiir lives to have 
leacued him. > 

They told me that when they were so knocked 
down» the rest of their Company rescued them» and 
Btood oyer them fighting tili they were come to them* 
mlwes, all but him who they thought had been dead ; 
sad then they made their way with their halberds and 

K«8y Standing close together in a line, through e 
y of aboye a thousand savages, beating down all 
ttat 6ame in their way, and got the victory over their 
jBBeniee, but to their sreat sorrow, because it was witb 
.the lose of their firiend, whom the other party, finding 
Um aiiyer carried off» with some othera, as I gave an 
•coDunt before. 

They described, most affectionately, how they were 
earpfked with joy at the return of their friend »nd 



1 

108 ' LIIPE AND ADVENTURES 

companion in misery, who, they thougfat, bad beetf 
devoured by wild beasts of the worst kind, yiz. by 
wild men ; and yet how more and more they were sur» 
prised with tbe account he gave them of bis errand, 
and that there was a Christian in any place near, 
much more one that was able, and had humaoity 
enough, to contribute to their deliverance. 

They described how they were astonished at the 
sight of the relief I sent them, and at the appearanoe 
47t' loaves of bread, thiugs they had not seen ßince their 
Coming to that miserable place ; liow often they crossed 
and blessed it as bread sent from Heaven ; and what 
a reyiving cordial it was to their spirits to taste it, K 
also the other things I had sent for their supply : and, 
' after all, they would have told me something of the 
joy they were in at the sight of a boat and pilots, to 
carry them away to the person and place from whenoe 
all these new comforts came, but it was impossible to 
express it by words, for their excessive joy naturally 
driying them to unbecoming extravagances, they had 
no way to describe them, but by telling rae they bor- 
dered on lunacy, having no way to give yent to their 
passions sui table to the sense that was on them ; that 
in some it worked one way, and in some another ; and 
that some of them, through a surprise of joy, would 
burst into tears, others be stark mad, and others im^ 
mediately faint. This discourse extremely affected 
tne, and called to my mind Friday's ecstasy when he 
met bis father, and the poor people's ecstasy when I 
took them up at sea after their sbip was on fire ; tbe 
joy of the mate of the ship when he found himself de- 
liyered in the place where be expected to perish ; and 
my ownjoy, when, after twentyrcight years' captiyity, 
I found a good ship ready to carry me to my own 
country. All these things made me more sensible 
of the relation of these poor men, and more affected 
with it. 

Haying thus giyen a yiew of the State of thingi m 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 109 

l found ihem, I must relate the heads of what I did 
tbr these pepple, and the condition in which I left 
Jthem. It was iheir opinion, and mine too, that they 
would be troubled no more with the savages, or, if 
they were, they would be able to cut them ofF, if they 
were twice as many as before ; so they had no coneern 
about that. Then I entered into a serious discours^ 
with the Spaniard, whom I call governor, about their 
stay in the island; for as I was not come to carry 
any t)f them off, so it would not be just to carry off 
•ome and leave others, who, perhaps, would be uut 
williug to stay if their strength was diminished, On 
the other band, I told them I eame to establish them 
tfaere^ not to remove them : arid then I let them know 
4hat I had brought with me relief of sundry kinds for 
them; that I had been at a great charge to supply 
them with all things necessary, as'well for their con- 
veaience as their defence; and that I had such and 
such particular persons with me, as well to increase 
and recruit their nnmber, as by the particular neces- 
sary employments which they were bred to, being ar- 
tilicers, to assist them in those things in which at pre^ 
aent they were in want. 

They were all together when I talked thus to them ; 
and before I delivered to them the Stores I had brought, 
I asked them, one by one, if they had entirely forgot 
«nd buried the first animosities tbat had been among 
them, and would shake hands with one another, and 
engage in a strict friendship and union of interest, that 
ao there might be no more misunderstandings and jea- 
lousies. 

Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good 
homour, said, they had met with affliction enough to 
make them all sober, and enemies enough to make 
them all friends ; that, for bis part, he would live and 
die with them ; and was so lar from designing any 
thing against the Spaniards, that he owned they had 
done nothing to him but what his own mad humour 



110 LIFB AND ADVBNTURBS 

made necessary, and what he would have done, aal 
perhaps worse, in their case ; and that he would aak 
them pardon, if 1 desired it, for the foolish and bratial 
things he had done to them, and was veiy willing and 
desirous of living in terms of entire friendship and onim 
with them, and would do any thing that lay in In 
power to convince them of it ; and as for going M 
England, he cared not if he did not go thither these 
twenty years. 

The Spaniards said they had, indeed, at first dis* 
armed and excluded Will Atkins and his two comn 
trymen for their ill condnct, as they had let me know, 
and they appealed to me for the necessity they wen 
under to do so; but that Will Atkins had behavdl 
himself so brayely in the great fight they had with tiM 
sayages, and on several occasions since, and had showe4 
himself so faithful to, and coneemed for, tbe generil 
interest of them all, that they had forgotten all tkst 
was past, and thought he merited as much to be tmsled 
with arms, and supplied with necessaries, as any of 
them ; and they had testified their satisfaction in hiSi 
by committing the command to htm, next to tbe go- 
Ternor himself; and as they had entire confidence n 
him, and all his countrymen, so they acknowledged 
they had merited that confidence by all>the methodft 
that honest men could merit to be ralued and tnisted ; 
and they most heartily embraced the occasion of gi^ing 
me this assurance, that they would never haye any in* 
terest separate from one another. 

On these frank and open declarations of friendshipi 
we appointed the next day to dine all together ; aaa> 
indeed, we made a splendid feast. I caosed the ship^ 
cook and his mate to come on shore and drees oor 
dinner, and the old cook's mate we had on shore mh 
sisted. We brought on shore six piece^ of good beef» 
and four pieces of pork, out of Üke ship's proYisioB, 
with our punch-bowt, a^d materials to fiU it ; uid, ia 
particular, 1 gave them ten bottles of French clai<el> 



OF ROBINSON CRVSOE. III 

ftnd ten bottles of English beer ; things that neither 
the Spaniards nor the English had tasted for many 
years, and which, it may be sapposed, they were yerf 
glad of. The Spaniards added to our feast üve whole 
kidsy which the cooks roasted ; and three of them 
were sent, coyered up dose, on board the sbip to 
the seamen, that they might feast on fresh meat from 
OD shore, as -we did with their salt meat from on 
board. 

After this feast, at which we were very innocently 
menry, I brought out my cargo of goods ; wherein, 
tbat there might be no dispute about dividing, I showed 
them that there was a suüicie|icy for them all, desiring 
tfaat they might all take an equal quantity of the goods 
that were for wearing ; that is to say, ^Qual when made 
op. Asy first, I distributed linen sufficient to make 
every one of them four shirts, and, at the Spaniards' 
vequest, afterwards made them up six ; these were ez- 
oeeding comfortable to them, having been what, as I 
■lay say, they had long since'forgot the use of, or 
whät it was to wear them. I allotted the thin Eng- 
lisli Stoffs, which I mentioned before, to make every 
one a light coat like a (rock, which I judged üttest 
for the heat of the season, cool and loose; and or- 
deied that whenever they decayed they should make 
morey as they thought fit ; the like for pumps, shoes, 
atoekings, hats, &c. 

I eannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction, 
sat on tiie countenances of all these poor men, wiien 
thej saw the care I had taken of them, and how well 
I bad fumished them. They told me I was a father 
to tliem ; and that having such a correspondent as I 
was in w> remote a part of the world, it would make 
tliem forget that they were left in a desolate place; 
and they all voluntarily engaged to me not to leave 
theplace withont my consent. 

Tlien I presented to them the people I had brooglit 
me, particularly the tailor, the smith, and the 



112 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

two carpenters, all of them most necessary people 
but, above all, my general artiiicer, than whoin the] 
could not name any thing that was more useful tu 
them : and the tailor, to show bis concern for tbem 
went to work immediately, and, with my leave, madi 
them every one a shirt, the first thing he did ; and 
which was still more, he taught the women not 00I3 
bow to sew and stitch, and use the needle, but mad( 
them assist to make the shirts for their husbands, an<j 
for all the rest. 

As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention hon 
useful they were; for they took to pieces all m) 
clumsy, unhandy things, and made them clever con- 
venient tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards, locken, 
shelves, and eyery thing they wanted of that kind. 
But to let them see how nature made artificers at first« 
I carried the carpenters to see Will Atkins' baskttt 
house, as I called it : aiid they both owned they nevei 
saw an instance of such natural ingenuity before, noi 
any thing so regulär and so handily built, at least ol 
its kind ; and one of them, when he saw it, after mu- 
sing a good while, turning about to me, ** I am sure,' 
says he, *' that man has no need of us; you need de 
nothing but give him tools." 

Then I brought them out all my störe of tools, and 
gaye every man a digging-spade, a shovel, and a rake, 
for we had no harrows or ploughs ; and to every sepa- 
rate place a pick-axe, a crow, a broad axe, and a 
saw ; always appointing, that as often as any wen 
broken or worn out, they should be supplied, withoul 
grudging, out of the general stores that I left behind 
Nails, Staples, hingcs, hammers, chisels, knives, scis- 
sors, and all sorts of iron-work, they had without tale, 
as they required ; for no man would take more thav 
he wanted, and he must be a fool that would waste 01 
spoil them on any account whatever ; and for the uae 
of the smith, I left two tons of unwrought iron fora 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 113 

My magazine of powder and arms which I brought 
fckem was such, eren to profusion, that they could not 
but rejoice at them : for now they could march as I 
used to do, with a musket on each Shoulder, if there 
was occasion ; and were able to fight a thousand sa- 
Tages, if they had but some little advantages of 
Situation, which also they could not miss, if they had 
occasion. 

I carried on shore with me the young man whose 
mother was starved to death, and the maid also : she 
was a sober, well-educated, religious young woman, 
and behayed so inojQfensively, that every one gave her 
a good Word ; she had, indeed, an unhappy life with 
US, there being no woman in the ship but herseif, but 
she bore it with patience. After a while, seeing things 
so well ordered, and in so üne a way of thriving on 
nqf Island, and considering that they had neither busi- 
ness nor acquaintance in the East Indies, or reason for 
taking so long a voyage ; I say, considering all this, 
bcth of them came to me, and desired I would give 
them leave to remain on the island, and be entered 
among my family, as they called it. I agreed to this 
readily ; and they had a little plot of ground allotted 
to them, where they had three tents or houses set up, 
surrounded with a basket-work, palisadoed like At- 
kins's, adjoining to bis plantation. Their tents were 
cpntrived so that they had each of them a room apart 
to lodge in, and a middle tent, like a great storehouse, 
to lay their goods in, and to eat and drink in. And 
now the other two Englishmen removed their habita- 
lioo to the same place ; and so the island was divided 
iiito three colonies, and no more, viz. the Spaniards, 
with old Friday, and the first servants, at my old ha- 
bitation under the hill, which was, in a word, the 
capital city ; and where they had so enlarged and ex- 
tended their works, as well under as on the outside of 
the Hill» that they lived, though perfectly concealed, 
yet füll at large. Never was there such a little cit^ 
VOL. II. u 



114 LIFE AND ADVENTÜRE8 

in a wood, and so hid, in any part of the world ; for 1 
verily believe a thousand men might have ranged tbi 
Island a month, and, if they had not known there im 
such a thing, and looked on purpose for it, they wonld 
not have found it ; for the trees stood so thick and n 
close, and grew so fast woven one into another, thil 
nothing but cntting them down first could discover the 
place, except the only two narrow entrances when 
they went in and out could be found, which was not 
very easy ; one of them was close down at the water*! 
edge, on the side of the creek, and it was afterwardi 
aboye two hundred yards to the place ; and the otfaei 
was up a ladder at twice, as I have already formerl? 
described it ; and they had also a large wood, thidi 
planted, on the top of the hill, containing aboye aa 
acre, which grew apace, and concealed the place firon 
all discovery there, with only one narrow place Ite- 
tween two trees, not easily to be discovered, to enlBr 
on that side. 

The other colony was that of Will Atkins, wbers 
there were four families of Englishmen, I mean those 
I had left there, with their wives and children ; three 
savages that were slaves ; the widow and the childm 
of the Englishman that was killed ; the young inai 
and the maid ; and, by the way, we maoe a wife of 
her before we went away. There were also the tw* 
carpenters and the tailor, whom I brought with 
for them ; also the smith, who was a very n 
man to them, especiaily as a gun-smith, to take 
of their arms ; and my other man, whom I called Jack 
of all trades, who was in himself as good almoat m 
twenty men ; for he was not only a very ingenions let 
low, but a very merry fellow ; and before I went awsj 
we married him to the honest maid that came with im 
youth in the ship I mentioned before. 

And now I speak of marrying, it brings me oat»- 
rally to say something of the French ecclesiastic tM 
I had brought with me out of the ship's crew whc» I 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOP. 115 

iook up at sea. It is true, this man was a Roman, 
and perhaps it may give ofience to some hereafter^ if i 
leav^e any thing extraordinary on record of a maa 
wliom, before I begin, I must (tx> set him out io juat 
oolours) represent in terms very much to his disadran- 
tage, in the account of Protestants : as, first, that he 
was a Papist ; secondly, a Popish priest ; and, thirdly^ 
a french Popish priest. But justice demands of me 
to give him a due character ; and I must say, he was 
a grave, sober, pious, and most religious person ; exaet 
üi his life, extensive in his charity, and exemplary ia 
«lm.o6t every thing he did. What then can any one 
say against my being very sensible of the value of such a 
nan, notwithstanding his profession? though it may 
be my opinion, perhaps, as weil as the opinion of 
others who shall read this, that he was mistaken. 

The iirst hour that I began to converse with him, 
after he had agreed to go with me to the £ast Indies^ 
I found reason to delight exceedingly in his conversa* 
tion ; and he first began with me about religion in the 
■KMt obliging manner imaginable. ^* Sir/' says he, 
" yoo have not only under God (and at that he crossed 
Ui breast) saved my life, but you have admitted me 
togo this Yoyage in your ship, and by your obliging 
ettUity have taken me into your family, giving me an 
opporUmity of free conversation. Now, Sir, you see 
bj my habit what my profession is, and I guess by 
your nation vi hat yours is ; I may think it is my duty, 
aad doubtless it b so, to use my utmost endeavours, 
OD aii oocasions, to bring all the souls I can to the 
kaowledge of the truth, and to embrace the Catholic 
dootrine; but as I am here under your permission, 
•ad in your family, I am bound in justice to your 
kindness, as well as in decency and good manners, to 
be onder your government ; and therefore I shall not, 
«rithoiit your leave, enter into any debate on the points 
of wligioo in which we may not agree, farther than 
fom «biU giTe me kaye.'' 



116 tiFE AND ADVENTURES 

I told him his carriage was so modest, that I could 
not but acknowledge it ; that it was tnie, we were 
such people as they called heretics, but that he was 
not the nrst Catholic I had conversed with, without 
falling into inconveniences, or carry in g the questions 
to any height in debate ; that he should not find him- 
self the worse used for being of a different opinkm 
from US ; and if we did not converse without any dis- 
like on either side, it should be his fault, not ours. 

He replied, that he thought all our conversation 
might be easily separated from disputes ; that it was 
not his business to cap principles with every man be 
conversed with ; and that he rather desired me to con- 
verse with him as a gentleman than as a religionist; 
and that, if I would give him leave at any time to 
discourse on religious subjects, he would readily com- 
ply with it, and that he did not doubt but I wonld 
allow him also to defend his own opinions as well as 
he could ; but that, without my leaye, he would not 
break in on me with any such thing. He told me 
farther, that he would not cease to do all that became 
him, in his office as a priest, as well as a private 
Christian, to procure the good of the ship, and the 
safety of all that was in her ; and though, perhaps, we 
would not join with him, and he could not pray with 
US, he hoped he might pray for us, which he would do 
on all occasions. In this manner we conversed ; and, 
as he was of the most obliging, gentleman-like beha- 
viour, so he was, if I may be allowed to say so, a man 
of good sense, and, as I believe, of great learning. 

He gave me a most diverting ^ccount of his life, 
and of the many extraordinary events of it ; of maoy 
adventures which had befallen him in the few years 
that he had been abroad in the world ; and particv- 
larly this was very remar kable, viz. that in the voyage 
he was now engaged in, he had the misfortune to be 
five times shipped and unshipped, and never to go to 
the place whither any of the ships he was in were at 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1X7 

fiist designed. That his first intent was to have gone 
to Martinico, and that he went on board a ship 
bound tbitber at St. Malo : but, being forced into 
Lisbon by bad weather, the ship received some damage 
by running aground in the mouth of the riyer Tagus, 
and was obliged to unload her cargo there ; but find- 
iDg a Portuguese ship tbere bound to the Madeiras, 
and ready to sail, and supposing he should easily meet 
with a vessel there bound to Martinico, he went on 
board, in order to $(ail to the Madeiras ; but the master 
of the Portuguese ship, being but an indifTerent ma- 
riner, had been out of his reckoning, and they drovB 
to Fayal ; where, however, he happened to find a very 
ffood market for his cargo, which was com, and there- 
lore resolved not to go to the Madeiras, but to load 
sait at the isle of May, and to go away to Newfound- 
land. He had no remedy in this exigence but to go 
with the ship, and had a pretty good voyage as far as 
the Banks (so they call the place where they catcbi 
the fish), where meeting with a French ship bound 
from France to Quebec, in the river of Canada, and 
firom thence to Martinico, to carry prorisions, he 
thought he should have an opportunity to completa 
hi3 first design ; but when he came to Quebec, the 
master of the ship died, and the vessel proceeded no 
&rther : so the next voyage he shipped himself for 
France, in the ship that was burned when we took 
them up at sea; and then shipped with us for the 
East Indies, as I have already said. Thus he had 
been disappointed in five voyages, all, as I may call 
it, io one voyage, besides what I shall have occasion 
to mention farther of the same person. 

But I shall not make digression into other men's 
ilories, which have no relation to my own : I return 
to what concems our affairs in the island. He came 
to me one morning, for he lodged among us all the 
while we were on the island, and it happened to be 
just when I was going to visit the Englishmen's co- 



118 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

lony, at ihe farthest part of the island ; I gay, Itf 
came to me, and told me, with a yery grave counto* 
Bance, that he had for two or three days desired «■ 
opportunity of some discourse with me, which hi 
hoped would not be displeasing to me, because he 
thought it might in some measure correspond with nj 
general design, which was, the prosperity of my new 
colony, and perhaps might put it, at least more thaa 
he yet thought it was, in the way of God's blea»- 
ing. 

^ I looked a little surprised at the last part of In 
discourse, and tuming a little short, '' How, Sir," 
Said I, <' can it be said that we are not in the way of 
God's blessing, after such visible assistances and wob- 
derful delirerances as we hare seen here, and of whicA 
I have given you a large account V — *' If you had 
pleased, Sir," said he, with a world of modesty» and 
yet with great readiness, ** to have heard me, yoa 
would have found no room to have been displeased, 
moch less to think so hard of me, that I should saf- 
gest that you have not had wonderful assistances- 9äA 
deliverances ; and I hope, on your behalf, that yoa 
are in the way of God's blessing, as your design is ex* 
ceeding good, and will prosper : but, Sir, though H 
were more so than is even possible to you, yet there 
may be some among you that are not equally right in 
their actions : and you know, that in the story of the 
children of Israel, one Achan in the camp remoyed 
God's blessing from them, and turned his hand to 
against them, that six-and-thirty of them, though not 
concerned in the crime, were the objects of dl* 
vine yengeance,. and bore the weight of that punisfa* 
ment." 

I was sensibly touched with his discourse, and toU 
him his inference was so just, and the whole desigi 
seemed so sincere, and was really so religious in its owB 
nature, that I was very sorry I had interrupted him, asd 
begged him to go on : and, in the mean time, because it 



OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. 119 

ieemed that what we had both to say might take up 
flome time, I told him I was going to the Englishmen's 
f^antations, and asked him to go with me, and we 
might discourse of it by the way. He told me he 
i^uld the more willingly wait on me thither, because 
there partly the thing was acted which he desired to 
«peak to me about ; so we walked on, and I pressed 
bim to be free and piain with me in what he had to 
•ay. 

** Why then, Sir,'* says he, *' be pleased to give 
me leaye to lay down a few propositions, as the found- 
atioa of what I haye to say, that we may not differ in 
the general principles, though we may be of some 
differing opinions in the practioe of particulars. First, 
Sir, though we differ in some of the doctrinal articles 
of religion, and it is yery unhappy it is so, especially 
in the ease before us, as I shall show afterwards, yet 
there are some general principles in which we both 
agree» viz. that there is a God ; and that this God 
having given us some stated general rules for our ser- 
ynce and obedience, we ought not willingly and know- 
ingly to offend him, either by neglecting to do what 
he has commanded, or by doing what he has expressly 
forbidden : and let our different religions be what 
they will, this general principle is readily owned by 
as all, that the blessing of God does not ordinarily 
foUow presumptuous sinning against bis command ; 
and every good Christian will be affectionately oon« 
eerned to prevent any that are ander bis care living in 
a total neglect of God and bis commands. It is not 
your men being Protestants, whatever my opinion 
may be of such, that discharges me from being con- 
eerned for their souls, and from endeavouring, if it lies 
before me, that they should live in as little distanoe 
from enmity with their Maker as possible, especially 
if you give me leave to meddle so far in your cir- 
tuit." 



120 LIFE AND ADVBNTÜIt£lP 

I could not yet imagine what lie aimed at, and toU 
him I granted all he had said, and thanked him thit 
he would so far concern himself for us; and begged 
he would explain the particulars of what he had ob- 
ser^ed, that, like Joshua, to take his own parable» I 
might put away the accursed thing from us. 

" Why then, Sir," says he, " I will take the li- 
berty you give me ; and there are three things, whicb« 
if I am right, must stand in the way of God's blessing 
on your endeavours here ; and which I sho'uld rejoice, 
for your sake, and their own, to see removed : and; 
Sir, I promise myself that you will fully agree with 
me in them all, as soon as I name them ; especially 
because I shall conyince you that every one of them 
may, with great ease, and very much to your satis- 
faction, be remedied. First, Sir," says he, ** yo* 
hare here four Englishmen, who have fetched women 
from among the savages, and have taken them as their 
wives, and have had many ehildren by them all, and yet 
are not married to them after any stated, legal manner» 
as the laws of God and man require : and thereforer 
are yet, in the sense of both, no less than fornicatois, 
if not living in adultery. To this, Sir, I know yoa 
will object that there was no clergyman or priest of 
any kind, or of any profession, to perform the cere- 
mony ; nor any pen and ink, or paper, to write down 
a contract of marriage, and have it signed between 
them : and I know also, Sir, what the Spaniard go« 
vernor has told you, I mean of the agreement that he 
obliged them to make when they took those women, 
viz. that they should choose them out by consent, and 
keep separately to them ; which by the way is no- 
thing of a marriage, no agreement with the women^ 
as wives, but only an agreement among themselves, lo 
keep them from quarrelling. But, Sir, the essence 
of tne saerament of matrimony (so he ealled it, being 
a Roman) consists not only in the mutual consent oi 



OF ROBINSON CBUSOE. 12t 

tbe parties to take one another as man and wife, but 
in the formal and legal Obligation that there is in tbe 
contract, to compel the man and woman, at all times, 
to own and aeknowlege each other; obliging the man 
to abstain from all other women, to engage in no other 
CDntraet while these subsist ; and, on all occasions, as 
ajbility allows, to provide honestly for them and their 
diildren ; and to oblige the women to the same, or 
like conditions,mutütis mutandü, on their side. Now, 
Sir," says he, *• these men may, when they please, or 
wfaen occasion presents, abandon these women, dis- 
own their children, leave them to perish, and take 
crther women, and marry them while these are 11- 
▼ingf'and here he added, with somewarmth, "How, 
Sir, is God honoured in this unlawful liberty ? and 
liDw shall a blessing succeed your endeavours in this 
place, howeyer good in themselves, and however sin- 
oere in your design, while these men, who at present 
are your subjects, under your absolute government 
and dominion, are allowed by you to live in open 
adultery V 

I confess I was Struck with the thing itself, but 
much more with the convincing arguments he sup-» 
ported it with ; for it was certainly true, that though 
tbey had no clergyman on the spot, yet a formal con- 
tract on both sides, made before witnesses, and con- 
finned by any token which they had all agreed to btf 
bound by, though it had been but breaking a stick 
between them, engaging the ipen to own these women 
for their wives on all occasions, and never to abandon 
tbem or their children, and the women to the same 
with their husbands, had been an effectual lawful 
marriage in the sight of God ; and it was a great ne- 
flect that it was not done. But I thought to have got 
off with my young priest by telling him that all that 
pari was done when I was not here ; and they had 
lived so many years with them now, that if it was 



122 LIFE AND ADVENTURBS 

adultery, it was past remedy; they could do noi 
in it now. 

'* Sir," says he, ** asking your pardon for such firee- 
dom, you are right in this, that, it heing done in yoor 
ahsence, you could not be charged with that part of 
the crime; but, I beseech you, flatter not yourself 
that you are not therefore under an Obligation to do 
your utmost now to put an end to it. How can ycm 
think but that, let the time past lie on whom it will^ 
all the guilt for the future will lie entirely on yout 
because it is certainly in your power now to put an 
ood to it, and in nobody's power but yours.'' 

I was so dull still, that I did not take him ligfat ; 
but 1^ imagined that, by putting an end to it, he meani 
that I should part them, and not suffer them to live 
together any longer : and I said to him I could not 
do that by any means, for that would put the whole 
Island into confusion. He seemed surprised that I 
ahould so far mistake him. '' No, Sir,'' says he, ** I 
do not mean that you should now separate them» bat 
legally and effectually marry them now ; and as, Sir, 
my way of marrying them may not be eaay to recon- 
ciie them to, tbough it will be effectual, even by your 
own laws, so your way may be as well before God, 
and as valid among men ; 1 mean, by a written con- 
tract signed by both man and woman, and by all the 
witnesses present, which all the lawsof Europe would 
decree to be valid/' 

I was amazed to see so much true piety^ and so 
mnch sincerity of zeai, besides the unusual impar« 
tiality in bis discourse as to bis own party or church, 
and such true warmth for preserying the people that 
he had no knowledge of or relation to ; I say, for 
preserving them from transgressing the laws of God, 
the like of which I had indeed not met with any 
where : but recollecting what he had said of marry- 
ing them by a written contract, which I knew he 



OF ROBINSON CRU30B. l!23 

would stand to, I returned it back, on him, and tokl 
hitn, I granted all that he had said to be just, and on bis 
pari rery kind ; tbat I would discourse with the men 
on the point now, when I came to them ; and I knew 
Bo reason why they should scruple to let him marry 
Ihem all, which I knew well enough would be granted 
to be as authentic and valid in England as if they 
were married by one of our own clergymen : whaA 
was afterwards done in this matter, l shall speak of 
by itself. 

I then pressed him to teil me what was the second 
Gomplaint which he had to make, acknowledging that 
I was very much bis debtor for the first, and thanked 
htm heartily for it. He told me he would use the 
same freedom and plainness in the second, and hoped 
I would take it as well ; and this was, that notwitlv» 
Standing these English subjects^f mine, as he callfid 
them, had lived with those women for almost aeyen 
years, had taught them to speak English, and eren to 
fead it, and that they were, as he perceived, women of 
tolerable understanding, and capable of instruction, 
yet they had not, to this hour, taught them any thing 
of the Christian religion, no, not so much as to know 
that there was a God, or a worship, or in what manner 
God was to be . seryed ; or that their own idolatry, 
and worshipping they knew not whom, was false and 
absurd. This, he said, was an unaccountable neglect, 
and what God would certainly call them to account 
for, and perhaps, at last, take the work out of their 
hands : — he spoke this rery affectionately, and warmly. 
** I am persuaded," says he, '' had those men lived in 
the sarage country whence their wives came, the sa- 
▼ages would haye taken more pains to have brought 
them to be idolaters, and to worship the devil, than 
any of these men, so far as I can see, have taken with 
them to teach them the knowledge of the true God. 
Now, Sir,'' said he, ^' though I do not acknowledge 
your religion, or you mine, yet we would be glad to 



124 LIFE AND ADVENTURBS 

see thc devil's sencants, and the subjects-of bis kiDg- 
dom, taught to know the generai principles of the 
Christian religion ; that they might, at least, hear öf 
God and a Redeemer, and of the resurrection, and of 
a future State, — things which we all beliebe ; tbey had, 
at least, been so much nearer Coming into the bosom 
of the true chureh than they are now, in the publk 
profession of idolatry and devil-worship." 

I could hold no longer ; I took him in my arms, 
and embraced him with an excess of passion. '* How 
far/' said I to him, ** have I been ffoin understanding 
the most essential part of a Christian ! viz. to love the 
interest of the Christian chureh, and the good of other 
men's souls: I scarce have known what belongs to 
the being a Christian." — ** O, Sir, do not say so," 
replied he ; " this thing is not your fault." — " No," 
said I ; " but why du 1 never lay it to heart as well 
as you?" — " It is not too late yet," said he; " be 
not too forward to condemn yourself." — " But what 
can be done now?" said I; ** you see T am going 
away." — " Will you give me leaye to talk with these 
poor men about it?" — ** Yes, with all my heart," 
said I ; '' and will oblige them to give heed to what 
you say too." — " As to that," said he, ** we must 
leave them to the mercy of Christ; but it is your 
business to assist them, encourage them, and instruct 
them ; and if you gire me leaye, and God bis blessing, 
I do not doubt but the poor ignorant souls shall be 
brought home to the great circle of Christianity, if not 
iiito the particular faith we all embrace, and that even 
while you stay here." On this I said, ** I shall not 
only give you leave, but give you a thousand thanks 
for it." What followed on this account, I shall men- 
tion also again in its place. 

I now pressed him for the third article in which 
we were to blame. " Why, really," says he, ** it b 
of the same nature ; and I will proceed, asking your 
leave, with the same plainness as before : it is about 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 126 

your poor savages, who are, as I may say, your con- 
quered subjects. It is a maxim, Sir, that is, or ought 
to be receiyed among all Christians, of what church or 
pretended church soever, viz. The Christian knowledge 
ought to be propagated by all possible means, and on all 
possible occasions. It is on this principle that our church 
sends missionaries into Persia, India, and China ; and 
that our clergy, even of the superior sort, willingly 
engage in the most hazardous yoyages, and the most 
dangerous residence among murderers and barbarians^ 
to teach them the knowledge of the true God, and to 
bring them over to embrace the Christian faith. Now, 
Sir, you have such an opportunity here to have six or 
seven and thirty poor savages brought over from 
idolatry to the knowledge of God, their Maker and 
Redeemer, that I wonder how you can pass such an 
oecasion of doing good, which is really worth the 
expense of a man's whole life." 

1 was now Struck dumb, indeed, and had not one 
Word to say. I had here a spirit of true Christian 
zeal for God and religion before me, let bis particular 
fninciples be of what kind soever : as for me, I had 
not so much as entertained a thought of this in my 
heart before, and I believe I should not have thought 
of it; for I looked on these savages as slaves, and 
people whom, had we any work for them to do, we 
would have used as such, or would have been glad 
to have transported them to any other part of the 
World : for our business was to get rid of them ; and 
we would all have been satisfied if they had been sent 
to any country, so they had never seen their own. 
But to the case ; — I say, I was confounded at bis dis- 
course, and knew not what answer to make him. 

He looked eamesüy at me. seeing me in 8ome dis- 
Order. " Sir," says he, ** I shall be very sorry if what 
I have Said gives you any offence." — ** No, no," said 
I, '^ I am offended with nobody but myself; but I 
am perfectly confounded, not only to think tlui.t L 



126 LIFE AND ADTENTTJRE6 

^ould never take any notice of this foefore, bot wHh 
reflecting what notice I am able to take of it now» 
You know, Sir/' said I, '* what circnmstances I am 
in ; I am bound to the £ast Indies in a ship freigbted 
by merehants, and to whom it would be an insuffer« 
able piece of injustice to detain their ship here, the 
men lying all this while at yictuals and ws^es on the 
owners' aecount. It is true, I agreed to be allowed 
twelve days here, and if I stay more, I must pay three 
pounds Sterling per diem demurrage ; nor can I stej 
oti demurrage above eight days more, and I haye beei 
here thirteen already ; so that I am perfectly unable 
to engage in this work, unless I would suffer myself to 
he left behind here again ; in which case, if this nngie 
ship should miscarry in any part of her yoyuge, I 
sfaould be just in the same eondition that I was left in 
here at first, and from which I have been so wonder*- 
fully delivered." He owned the case was rery liard 
on me, as to my voyage ; but laid it home on my 
conscience, whether the blessing of saving thirty-seyen 
Söuls was not worth yenturing all I had in the world 
for. I was not so sensible of that as he was. I re- 
turned on bim thus : ** Why, Sir, it is a yaluable 
thing, indeed, to be an instrument in God's band io 
convert thirty-seven heathens to the knowledge of 
Christ ; but as you are an ecclesiastic, and are giyen 
over to the work, so that it seems so naturally to fall 
into the way of your profession, how is it tben that 
you do not rather offer yourseif to und^take it^ than 
press me to do it ? " 

On this he faced about just before me, as he walked 
along, and putting me to a füll stop, made me a very 
low bow. ** I most heartily thank God and yon, 
Sir/' said he, " for giying me so eyident a call to so 
blessed a work ; and if you think yourseif discharged 
from it, and desire me to undertake it, I will most 
readily do it, and think it a happy reward for all the 
hazards and difficulties of such a broken, disappointed 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 129 

irojage as I have met with, that I am dropped aJt last 
into so glorious a work." 

I discovered a kind of rapCure in bis face while he 
spoke tbis to me ; bis eyes sparkled like fire, bis fkce 
giowed, and bis colour came and went, as if he had 
been falling into fits ; in a word, be was fired witb tbe 
joy of being embarked in such a work. I paused a 
considerable wbiie before I could teil wbat to say to 
him ; . for I was reaily surprised to find a man of such 
flincerity and zeal, and carried out in bis zeal beyond 
the ordinary rate of men, not of bis profession onty, 
bot even oi any profession wbatsoever. But after I 
had considered it awbile, I asked bim seriously if be 
was in earnest, and tbat be would venture, on tbe 
Single consideration of an attempt on tbose poor peo^ 
fiie, to be iocked up in an unplanted island for pev^ 
haps bis life, and at last migbt not know wbether be 
should be able to do tbem good or not ? 

He tamed sbort on me, and asked me wbat I called 
a venture? ** Pray, Sir," said be, " wbat do you 
tbink I consented to go in your sbip to tbe £ast In- 
diesfor?*' — ** Nay," said I, ** tbat I know not, un- 
less h was to preacb to tbe Indians." — ** Doubtiess it 
was," Said be ; *' and do you tbink, if I can oonvert 
tfaese tbirty-seven men to tbe faitb of Jesus Cbrist, it 
is oot wortb my time, tbougb I should never be 
fetched off tbe* island again ? nay, is it not infinitefy 
of more wortb to save so many souls tban my iife i«, 
or the Iife of twenty more of the same profession? 
Yes, Sir," says be, '* I would give Christ and tbe 
biessed Virgin thanks all my days, if I could be made 
tbe least bappy instrument of saving the souls of tbose 
poor men, tbougb I were never to set my foot off tbis 
labuid, or see my natvve country any more. But sinos 
you will honour me witb puttin g me into tbis work, 
Idt wbich I will pray for you all tbe days of my Iife, 
I haT8 one faumbie petition to you besides."-— *' Wbat 



128 LIFE AND ABVENTURES 

is that V Said I. " Why," says he, ** it is, that yo« 
will leave your man Friday with me, to be my intei' 
peter to them, and to assist me; for without some 
help I cannot speak to them, or they to me." 

I was sensibly touched at bis requestiog Friday« 
because I could not think of parting with him, and 
that for many rea^ons : he had been tbe companion.oJ 
my travels; he was not only faithful to me, but sii- 
cerely affectionate to the last degree ; and I had ibv 
solved to do something considerable for him if he ou^ 
lived me, as it was probable he would. Then I knev 
that as I had bred Friday up to be a Protestant, it 
Would quite confound him to bring him to embrape 
another profession; he would never, while bis eym 
were open, believe that bis old master was a her^üei 
and would be damned ; and this might, in the end, 
ruin the poor fellow's principles, and so turn him back 
a^ain to bis first idolatry. However, a sudden tbougfai 
relieved me in this strait, and it was this : I told tun 
I could not say that I was willing to part with Friday 
xya any aceount whatever, though a work that to hlM 
was of more value than bis life, ought to be to me 
of much more value than the keeping or partiog 
with a servant. But, on the other band, I was pei^ 
suaded that Friday would by no means agree to pari 
with me ; and I could not force him to it without his 
consent, without manifest injustice; because I had 
promised I would never put nim away, and he had 
promised and engaged to me that he would never 
leave me unless I put him away. 

He seemed very much concerned at it, for he had 
no rational access to these poor people, seeing be did 
not understand one word of their language, nor they 
one word of his. To remove this difficulty, I told 
him Friday *s father had learoed Spanish, which I 
found he also understood, and he should serve him as 
an Interpreter. So he was much better satisfied, and 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1^9 

•otfaing could persuade him but he would stay and' 
endeavour to convert them ; but Providence gaye an-* 
other very happy turn to all this. 

I come back now to the first part of bis objections. 
When we came to the Englishmen , I sent fpr them all 
together, and after some aeeount given them of what I 
had done for them^ viz. "what necessary things I had 
provided for them, and how they were distributed, 
which they were very sensible of, and yery thankful 
for, I began to talk to them of the scandalous life they 
led, and gave them a füll account of the notice tho 
clergyman had taken of it ; and arguing how unchris- 
tian and irreligious a life it was, I first asked them if 
lliey were married men or bachelors ? They soon ex- 
plained their conditions to me, and showed that two of 
them were widowers, and the other three were single 
men, or bachelors. I asked them with what conscience 
tliey could take those women, and lie with them, 
•s they had done, qall them their wives, and have so 
many children by tbem, and not be lawfully married 
to them ? 

They all gave me the answer I expected, viz. that 
there was nobpdy to marry them ; that they agreed 
before the govemor to keep them as their wives, and 
to maintain them and own them as their 'wives ; and 
they thought, as things stood with them, they were as 
legally married as if they had been married by a par- 
son, and with all the formalities in the world. 

I told them that no doubt they were married in the 
sigfat of God, and were bound in conscience to keep 
tliem as their wives ; but that the laws of men being 
otherwise, they might desert the poor women and 
ehildren hereafter; and that their wives being poor 
^Molate women, frie»dless and moneyless, would have 
■o way to help themselves : I therefore told them that 
«nless I vras.assüred of their honest intent, I could do 
Botfaing for them, but would take oare that what I 
did sbould be for the women and children without 

VOL. II. \ 



laa LIFB AND ▲OYBNTURSS 

Ihem ; anä that lialess they wonld give me some 
rances that they would many the womea, I cotuld iio4 
think it was convenient they i^ould continue tc^^^ÜMt 
as man and wife ; for that it waa both scanddloua to 
men and offensive to God, who they coidd not tfaiiik 
would bless them if they went on thus. 

All this went on as I expected : aad they toU ac^ 
especialiy Will Atkins, who now scemed to speak tot 
the resty that they loved theiir wives aa well aa if Ümf 
had been born in their own native country, and woala 
not leave them on any account whatevar; and Ümy 
did yerily believe their wives were as virtoous aad aa 
modesty and did, to the utmost of their skiU» aa moek 
fax them and for their children» as aay womea covUI 
posstbly do ; and they would not part wiüi theat oa 
aay account : aad Will Atkins for his own particnlar» 
addedy that if any man would take him away, aadaf« 
ißt to carry him home to England, and make him <9a|^ 
tain of the best man of war in the navy, he wonid not 
go with him, if he might not carry. his wife and dal« 
dren with him ; and if there was a clergyman ia tha 
ship, he would be married to her now with all bis 
heart. 

This was just as I would have it : the priest waa 
not with me at that moment, but was not fax off; sa, 
to try him farther, I told him I haä a clergyman witb 
me, and, if he was siocere, I would have him manied 
next morning, and bade him consider of it, and talk 
with the rest. He said, as for himself, he need not 
consider of it at all, for he was very ready to do it, and 
was glad I had a minister with me, and he beiieinad 
they would be all willing also. I then told him that 
my friend, the minister, was a Frenchman, and could 
not speak English, but I would act the clerk between 
them. He never so much as asked me whether he waa 
a Papist or Protestant, which was indeed what l waa 
afraid of ; so we parted : I went back to my clergy- 
man, and Will Atkins went in to talk with his com- 



OW &OBIN SON CAÜSOK. tSl 

pttuoDS. I desired tfae French gentlernftn not to say 
aay thiag to tbeni tili Uie bosiness was thoroagh ripe ; 
aad I toki him wfaat ai^wer the men had giyen me. 

Before I went firom their quaiter, they all came to 
ne, and told me tbey had been considering what I 
had said ; that they wer» glad to hear I had a clergy- 
man in ny Company, and they were yeiy willing 
to giye me the satbraction I desired, and to be for- 
«Mdly married as soon as I pleased ; for they were far 
from deeiring to part with their wiyes, and that they 
meaat nothing bat what was yery honest when they 
chose them. So I appointed them to meet me the 
iMXt moming ; and, in the mean time, they should let 
their wiyes know the meaning of the marriage-law ; 
aad that it was not only to preyent wopf scandal, but 
also to oblige them that they should not forsake them, 
whateyer might happen. 

The women were easily made sensible of the mean- 
ing of the thing, and w^e yery well satisfied with it, 
as indeed they had ftason to be : so they failed not to 
attend all together at my apartment next morning, 
where I brought out my clergyman ; and though he 
had not on a minister's gown, after the manner of 
England, or the habit of a priest, after the manner of 
France; yet haying a black yest, something like a 
cassock, with a saäi round it, he did not look yery 
unlike a minister ; and as for his language, I was bis 
Interpreter. But the seriousness of his behayiour to 
them, and the scmples he made of marrying the 
women, because they were not baptized and pro- 
ÜMsed Christians, gaye them an exeeeding reyerence 
for his person ; and there was no need, after that, to 
iaquire whether he was a clergyman or not. Indeed, 
I yras afraid his scmples would haye been carried so 
far, ar that he would not have marri^ them at all ; 
aay, notwithstanding all I was able to say to him, he 
resisted me, thoush modestly, yet yery steadily : and 
at last refused absolutely to marry them, uuk»a ^<^ 



132 LIFE AND ADVENTURE8 

had first talked with the men and the wbmen -tbo; 
and though at first I was a little backward to it, y^ 
at last I agreed to it with a good will, perceiving tbe. 
ftincerity of his design. 

When he came to them, he let them know that I- 
had aequainted him with their circumstanoes, äad 
with the present design ; that he was very williBg 
to perform that part of his function, and many them; 
as I had desired ; but that before he oould do it, be 
must take the liberty to talk with them. . He toM 
them, that in the sight of all indifferent men, and ia 
the sense of the laws of society, they had lived all tfaiB 
whiie in open fornication ; and that it was true, tbift 
nothing but the consenting to marry, or effefstualljr 
separating them from one another, could now put aii 
end to it ; but there was a difficulty in it too, wi^ 
respect to the laws of Christian matrimony, which be 
was not fuUy satisfied about, viz. that of marrymg 
one that is a professed Christian to a savage, an ido* 
later, and a heathen, one that is not baptized ; aini 
yet that he did not see that there was time left to 
endeavour to persuade the women to be baptized, ör 
to profess the name of Christ, whom they had, be 
doubted, heard nothing of, and without which they 
could not be baptized. He told them he doubted 
they were but indifferent Christians themselves ; that 
they had but little knowledge of God or of his wäys, 
and therefore he could not expect that they had said 
inuch to their wives on that head yet ; but that unless 
they would promise bim to use their endeavours with 
their wives to persuade them to become Christiaiis, 
and would, as well as they could, instruct them 'in 
the knowledge and belief of God that made them, 
and to worship Jesus Christ that redeemed them, he 
could not marry them ; for he would have no htod in 
joining Christians with savages ; nor was it consisteot 
with the principles of the Christian religion, and was 
indeed expressly forbiddem in God's law. 



<'OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 133 

- They iKeard all this yery attentively, and I deli- 
¥ered it yery faithfuliy to them from his mouth, as 
m^aa his own words as I could ; oniy sometimes add- 
ing something of my own, to convince them how just 
k was, and how I was of lüs mind : and I always 
very faithfuliy distinguished between what I said from 
Bi3r8elfy and what were thä clergyman's words. They 
told me it was very true what the gentleman said, that 
they were very indifferent Christians themselves, and 
that they had never talked to their wives about reli- 
gion. ** Lord, Sir," says Will Atkins, " how should 
we teach them religion ? why, we know nothing our- 
•elyes ; and besides, Sir," said he, '* should we taik 
to them of God and Jesus Christ, cmd heaven and 
bell» it would make them laugh at us, and ask us 
«rliat we believe ourselves? And if we should teil 
them that we believe all the things we speak of to 
tbem, auch as of good people going to heaven, and 
wicked people to the devil, they would ask us wherä 
we intend to go ourselves, that believe all this, and 
are sach wicked fellows as we indeed are? Why, 
Sir» 'tis enough to give them a surfeit of religion at 
first Hearing : folks must have some religion them- 
«elves before they pretend to teach other people." — 
" Will Atkins," said I to him, '* though 1 am afraid 
tbat what you say has too much truth in it, yet can 
you not teil your wife she is in the wrong ; that there 
•m a 6 od, and a religion better than her own ; that 
hm gods are idols; that they can neither hear nor 
«peak; that there is a great Being that made all 
tbings, and that can destroy all that he has made ; 
that he rewards the good and punishes the bad ; and 
that we are to be jud^ed by him at last for ^11 we' 
lieret You are not so Ignorant, but even nature il 
will teach you that all this is true ; and I am satii 
you know it all to be true, and believe it yourself." — 
<' Xhat is true, Sir," said Atkins; " but with what 
fM^e caa I lay any thing to my wife of all this, whei^ 




134 LIFE AND ADVENTÜREB 

ehe will teil me immediately it cansol be trne?''-— 
** Not true !" said I ; '' what do you mean by tkat ?"--« 
*' Why, Sir /V said he, ** she will teil me it canhot hi 
true that this God I shall teil her of can be just, of 
can punish or reward, since I am not piuiisheji «ad 
aent to the devil, that haTe been such a wicked crat^ 
ture as she knows I have been» even to her, and iik 
every body eise ; and that I should be svffered to 
lif^e, tliat have been always acting so contarary to what 
I must teil her is good, and to what I öugnt to bave 
done."— " Why truly, Atkins," said I, '' I am afraid 
thou speakest too much tmth;" and with thal S in* 
foi-med the clergyman of what Aikins had said» for ha. 
was impatient to know. ** O," said tde priest» *' fall 
him there is one thing will make him the best miniater 
in the world to his wife, and that is, repentance ; lor 
none teach repentance like true penitents. He waats 
nothing but to repept, and then he will be so maoli 
the better qualified io instruct his wife : he will thMi 
be able to teil her that there is not only a God, aad 
that he is the just rewarder of good and eyil, bat th«t 
he is a merciful Being» and with infinite goodneas and 
long-sufFering forbears to punish those that offend} 
waiting to be gracious, and willihg not the death of a 
sinner, but rather that he «hould return and live : that 
oftentimes he sufFers wicked men to go a long tiiM» 
and eren reseryes damnation to the general day of 
retrrbution ; that it is a clear evidenoe of God and of 
a future State, that righteous men receiye not theor 
reward, or wicked men their punishment» tili they 
come into another world ; and this will Jiead him lo 
teach his wife the doctrine of the resurr^tion and of 
l||e last judgment. Let him but repent for himaelf» 
he. will be an excellent preaeher of repentance to his 
wft/' 

I repeated all this to Atkins» who looked rery 
serious all the while, and who, we could easily per^ 
ceive, was mora than otdinarily affected ¥rith it: "vAiaa 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 135 

being eager, and hardly suffering me to make an end>-^ 
** I lgK)w all thisy master/^ says he, *' and a great deal 
Bore ; but I have not the impudence to talk thus to 
■ly wife, when God and my conscience know, and 
my wife will be an nndeniable evidence against me» 
tlut I haTe liyed as if I had never beard of a God or 
fiitiire State, or any thing about it ; and to talk of my 
fepenting, alas ! (and witb that be fetched a deep 
mgh, and 1 could see that the tears stood in bis eyes,) 
'tis past ail that with me."— '' Fast it, Atkins V said 
1; ** what dost thon mean by that ?" — ^* I know wdl 
anongfa what I mean/' says he ; *' I mean 'tis too late^ 
and that is too true." 

I told the ciergyman» Word for word, what he said : 
ftfae poor sealous priest, — I must calV him so, for, be 
bis opinioB what it wiil, he had certainly a most sin- 
galiM^ affection for the good of other men's souls, and 
k woold be hard to think he had not the like for bis 
owüf — I say, this affeötionate man could not refrain 
firom tears ; but, reooTering himself, said to me, *' Ask 
him but one question ; Is he easy that it is too late ; ot 
Is he tronbled, and wishes it were not so V I put the 
qotstion fairly to Atkins; and he auswered, with a 
great deal of passion, ** How could any man be-easy 
m a cosdition that must certainly end in eternal de- 
fltmction ? that he was ÜBtr from being easy ; but that, 
Ott the contrary, he believed it would» one iime c» 
otker, min him." — ** What do you mean by that 7" 
I. ** Why," he said, ** he believed he should 
üme or other cut bis throat, to put an end to the 
terror of it*'' 

The clergyraan shook bis head, with great oonoera 
hl bis face, when I told him all this; but tu 
qaick to ne on it, says, *' If that be bis case, we 
him it is not too late ; Christ will give 

Bat pray/' says he, '* ezplain this to him ; 
man is saved but by Christ, and the merit 
<tf Us.pespkm procuriog diräe mtrcy for him» how caa 




1^ LIFB AND ADVBNTUR^ES 

it be too late for any man to receive mercy ? Doeshe 
think he is abie to sin beyond the power or reach of 
divine mercy? Pray teil him, there may be a time 
when provoked mercy will.no longer strive, and wheii ' 
God may refuse to bear, but that it is never too late 
for men to ask mercy ; and we, that are Cbrist's ser- 
yants, are commanded to preach mercy at all times, in 
the name of Jesus Christ, to all those that sincerely 
repent ; so that it is never too late to repent." 

I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great 
earnestness ; but it seemed as if he turned off the dts-- 
course to the rest, fot he said to me, he would go and 
haye some talk with bis wife ; so he went out awhile, 
and we talked to the rest. I perceived they were all 
stupidly Ignorant as to matters of religion, as much as 
I was when I went rambling away from my father ; 
and yet there were none of them backward to hear 
what had been said ; and all of them seriously pro- 
mised that they would talk with their wives about it, 
and do their endeavours to persuade them to tum 
Christians. 

The clergyman smiled on me when I reported what 
answer they gave, but said nothing a good while ; but 
at last, shaking his head, '^ We that are Christ's ser- 
yants," says he, ** can go nofarther than to.exhortand 
instruct ; and when men comply, submit to the reproof» 
and promise what we ask, 'tis all- we can do ; we are 
bound to accept their good words ; but, believe me, 
Sir," said he, ** whatever you may have known of the 
life of that man you call Will Atkins, I believe he is 
the only sincere convert among them : I take that man 
to be a true penitent : I will not despair of the rest ; 
lijithat man is apparently Struck with the senseof bis 
pH| life, and I doubt not, when he comes to talk of 
rdi^ion to bis wife, he will talk himself effectually 
into it ; for attempting to teach others is sometimestfa^ 
best way of teaching ourselyes. I know a man, who^ 
having nothing but a summary notion of religion him« 



• .OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. 139 

seif, and being. wicked and profligate to the last de<^ * 
gree in his life, made a thorough reformation in him^ 
seif by labouring to convert a Jew. If that poor At-; 
kins begins but once to talk seriously of Jesus Ohrist 
to his wife, my life for it, he talks himself into a tho- 
rough convert» makes himself a penitent; and who 
knows what may follow ?" 

• On this discourse, howeyer, and their promising, 
as above, to endeavour to persuade their wives to em- 
brace Christianity, he married the other two couple ; 
but Will Atkins and his wife were not yet come in. 
After this, my clergyman waiting awhile, was curious 
to know where Atkins was gone ; and turniog to m^, 
Said, '' I entreat you, Sir, let us walk out of your la- 
byrinth here, and look ; I dare say we shall find this 
poor man somewhere or other talking seriously to hw 
wife, and teaching her already something of religion.-' 
I began to be of the same mind ; so we went out to* 
gether, and I carried him a way which none knew 
but myself, and where the trees were so yery thick 
that it was not easy to see through tke thicket 6f 
leaves, and far harder to see in than to see out ; when 
Coming to the edge of the.wood, 1 saw Atkins and his 
tawny wife sitting under the shade of a bush, yery 
eager in discourse : I stopped short tili my clergyman 
came up to me, and then having showed him where 
tfaey were, we stood and looked very steadily at them 
a good while. We observed him yery eamest with 
her, pointing up to the sun, and to every quarter of 
the heayens, and then down to the earth, then out ta 
the sea, then to himself, then to her, to the woods, tp 
the trees. '^ Now," says the clergyman, ''you see 
my words are made good, the man preaches to her-; 
mark him now, he is telling her that our God baß 
made him and her, and the heayens, the earth, th^ 
aea, thd woods, the trees, &c.*' — " I believe he is,'^ 
nid I. Immediately we perceiyed Will Atkins Start 
on his feet, fall down on his knees, and lift up both 
his handa. We supposed he said «loiuft^kux^« \a(^ 



108 UPS AND ADTENTUSES 

we oould not hear htm ; it was too far for that« He 
did not coatinue kneeling half a minute, bat comes 
and sits down again by bis wife, and talka to her 
again : we peiceiTed thea the woman yeiy attentm» 
but whether she said any thing to bim we could tiol 
teil. While the poor fellow was on bis kaees« I 
could see the tears run plentifully down my derg]^ 
man's cheeks, and I could hardly lorbear myaelf ; bot 
it was a great affliction to us botb that we were not 
near enough to hear any thing tbi^ paned be t w een 
them. Well, boweTer, we could eome no nearer for 
fear of disturbing them ; so we resolyed to see an end 
of this jHece of still conv^rsation, and it spoke kMid 
«lough to US witbout tbe belp of yoice. He aat dowa 
again, te I have said, close by her, and talked agatn 
earnestly to her, and two or three tiraes we could 
him embrace her most passionately ; another 
we saw bim take out bis bandkerchief and wipe her 
eyes, and tben kiss her again, with a kind of traas* 
port very nnusual ; and after seyeral of these things« 
we saw him on a sudden Jump up i^in, and leid 
her bis band to belp her up, wben immediately 
leading her by the band a step or two, they boCh 
kneeled down togetber, and continued so about two 
miautes. 

My firiend could bear it no longer, but cries oat 
aloud, '< St Paul ! St. Paul l bebold he prayetk** 
I was afraid Atkins would hear bim, tb^refore I en* 
trea^ him to withhold bimself awhile, that we migfal 
see an end of tbe scene, which to me, I must confeHi 
was the most affecting that ever I saw in my lifo« 
Well, he strore with himself for a while, but was hl 
auch raptures to think that the poor hetthoi womaa 
was become a Christian, that he was not able to cihh 
tain himself; he wept seyeral times, tben tbrowing np 
bis hands and crossing bis breast, said oyer seyeral 
things ejaculatory, and by way of giying God thaaka 
Ibr so miraculous a testhnony of äe success of cm 
«Difearours ; oome he «pok.% ^oM^j« %nd l aoald not 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB« 139 

well hear others; some in Latin, seine in French; 
tben two or three times the tears would intemipt hinnv 
that he could not speak at all ; but I begged that he 
woold contain himself, and let us more narrowly and 
fuUy obser^e what was before us, which he did for a 
time, the scene not being near ended yet ; for after 
the poor man and his wife were risen again from their 
knees, we observed he stood talking still ' eagerly to 
her» and we obseryed her motion, that she was greatly 
affected with whal he said, by her frequently lifting 
np her hand^» laying her band to her breast, and such 
other postures as ezpress the greätest seriousoess and 
attention : this continued about half a quarter of an 
hawTf and then they walked away ; so we could see 
DD more of them in that Situation. I took this in«> 
lerval to talk with my clergyman ; and iirst, I was 
glad to see the particulars we had both been witnesses 
to, that, though I was hard enough of belief in such 
ctflea, yet that I began to think it was all yery sincert 
bere» both in the man and his wife, however Ignorant 
they might both be, and I hoped such a beginning 
woald yet ha?e a more happy end : ''And who 
knows," Said I, '' bat these two may in time, by in*- 
siraction and example, work on some of the others V^ 
— '' Some of them V' said he, turning quick on me : 
** aye, on all of them : depend on it, if those two sa^ 
▼agea (for he has been but Httle better, as you relaSa 
it) shonld embrace Jesus Christ, they will nerer leate 
ife tili they work on all the rest ; for true religion is 
üAtarally oommunicatiye ; and he that is once made a 
Christian will neyer leave a Pagan behind him, if be 
belp it.'' I owned it was a most Christian prin- 
to think so, and a testimony of true zeal, as weil 
ae a generous heart, in him. '* But, my friend," said 
I^'^'will you giye me leaye to Start one difficultjr 
hm? I oannot teil how to object the least thing 
•gainat that affectionate concern which you show for 
the tarauif the poor people from their jPagamBm to 



140 LIFE AND ADVBNTURBS 

llie Christian religion : but how does this comfort yoa, 
wfaile these people are, in your account» out of tbe 
pale of the Catnolic church, without which you be- 
liebe there is no salvation ? so that you esteem these 
but heretics still ; and, for other reasous« as effectuaUy 
lost as the Pagans themselves/' 

To this he answered, with abundanee of candour, 
thus : ** Sir, I am a Catholic of the Roman cburch^ 
and a priest of the order of St. Benedict, and I em» 
brace all the principles of the Roman faith ; but yet, 
if you will believe me, and that I do not speak ii 
compliment to you, or in respect to my circumstancei 
and your ci^ilities ; I say, nevertheless, I do not lock 
on you, who call yourselves reformed, without some 
cfaarity : I dare not say (though I know it is cur op^ 
-nion in general) that you cannot be sayed ; I will hj 
no means limit the mercy of Christ so iar as to think 
that he cannot receive you into the bosom of bis 
church, in a manner to us unperceivable ; and I hope 
you have the same charity for us : I pray daily rar 
your being all restored to Christas church, by wfaatao- 
ever method he, who is all-wise, is pleased to direct 
In the mean time, sure you will allow it consists witk 
me, as a Roman, to distinguish far between a Pro- 
testant and a Pagan ; between one that calls on Jestt 
Christ, though in a way which I do not think is ac- 
cording to the true faith, and a sarage or a barbarian, 
that knows no God, no Christ, no Redeemer ; and if 
you are not with in the pale of the Catholic church, 
we hope you are nearer being restored to it than those 
that know nothing of God or of his church : and I re- 
joice, therefore, when I see this poor man, whom you 
say has been a profligate, and almost a murderer, 
kneel down and pray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose 
he did, though not fuily enlightened ; belieTing that 
God, from whom e^ery such work proceeds, will aen- 
flibly touch his heart, and bring him to the farther 
Itnowledge of that truth in bis pwn time : and if God 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.' 14t 

riiall influence this poor man to convert and instruol 
die Ignorant sayage» bis wife, I oan ne^er belieye that 
he shall be cast away himself. And haye I not rea- 
8on then to rejoice the nearer any are brought to tbie 
knowledge of Cbrist, tbough tbey may not be brougbt 
qüite home into tbe bosom of the Catholic church just 
at the time when I may desire it, leaving it to tbe 
goodness of Christ to perfect bis work in bis own 
time, and in bis own way ? Certainly, I would re- 
joice if all the sayages in America were brought, like 
this poor woman, to pray to God, tbough tbey were 
all to be Protestants at first, ratber than tbey sbould 
oontinue Pagans or Heatbens ; firmly belieying, that be 
that bad bestowed the first ligbt to them would fartber 
illuminate them with a beam of bis beaveoly grace, 
aad bring them into the pale of bis church, when he 
sliould see good/' 

Itwas astonished at the sincerity and temper of this 
pious Papist, as much as I was oppressed by tbe 
power of bis reasoning ; and it presently ocourred to 
oiy thoughts, that if such a temper was uniyersal, we 
might be all Catholic Christians, whateyer church or 
particular professiön we joined in ; that a spirit of oha- 
rity would soon work us all up into right principles ; 
and as be thought that the like charity would make 
US all Catholics, so I told bim I belieyed, bad all tbe 
members of bis church the like moderation, tbey would 
soon all be Protestants. — And tbere we left that 
part ; for we neyer disputed at all. 
- Howeyer, I talked to bim anotber way, and taking 
him by the band, ** My friend," says I, <' 1 wish all 
the clergy of the Romish church were blest with such 
moderation, and bad an equal share of your charity. 
I am>entirely of your opinion ; but 1 must teil you, 
that if you should preach such doctrine in Spain or 
Italy, tbey would put you injto tbe Inquisition/' — 
** It may be so,'' said he ; '* 1 know not what tbey 
would do in Spain or Italy ; kut I will not say tbey 



14^ LIPB AND ADVKIfTVRtS 

woald be the better Cfarutiaiui for that seTerity ^ for I 
am Bore there is no heresy in aboanding with dkiarity.'* 
Well, BS Will Atkins and bis wife wero gone, our Im* 
tiaesB tbere was over» so we went back oar own way ; 
aad when we eame back, we found tbem waitingtobe 
called in : observing this, l asked my clei^yman if we 
ihould discover to bim tbat we had seen him under the 
bush or not ; and it was bis opinion wasbovldnoty bvi 
tbat we should talk to him first, and bearwhatbe 
would say to us : so we called bim in alone, nobody 
being in the place but ourselves ; and I began witfe 
bim thus : 

*f Will Atkins/' said I, *' prithee what educatioB 
had you ? What was your fatber ?" 

IF. il. A better man than ever I shall be : Sir, my 
ÜEtther was a clergyman. 

R. C. What education did he give yon ? 

W. A, He would have taught me well, Sir ; bat I 
despised all education, instruction, or correction, like 
a beast as I was. 

R. C. It is true, Solomon says, '* He tbat deqpises 
reproof is brutish." 

W. A. Aye, Sir, I was brutisb indeed, fot I mnr- 
dered my fatber : for God's sake, Sir, talk no more 
about that ; Sir, I murdered my poor father. 

Pr. Ha ! a murderer ! 

Here the priest started (for I interpreted every 
Word as he spoke) and looked pale : it seems be b^ 
lieved that Will had really killed bis father. 

R. C. No, no, Sir, I do not understand bim so : 
Will Atkins, explain yourself ; you did not kill yow 
father, did you, with your own hands ? 

W. A. No, Sir, I did not cut bis throat ; but I cot 
the thread of all bis comforts, and shortened bis dxjs: 
I broke bis heart by the most ungrateful, unnatiural 
return, for the most tender and affectionate treatment 
that ever father gave, or child could receive. 

R. C. Well, I did not ask you about your fatber» 



OF XOBUrSON CRUSOS. 14S 

U> extori this cumSessiomt I piay €rod gWe yoa r^ 
peataBce for It, and fMrgire Üwt «ad all jomr othM* 
«ins ; but I asked yoo becauae I see that thcNigh jcmi 
httre not mach learning, yet yon are not so Ignorant 
as some are in things that are good ; that yon ha^e 
known more of religion, a great deal, than yon kaye 



TF. A, Thoogk yon, Sir, did not eztort the con- 
lion that I make ahout my father, conscience does; 
and wheneyer we come to look back on onr lives, the 
ains against our indulgent parents are certainly the 
ftrst that toueh us ; the wounds tfaey uMike lie deepest, 
mild the weight they leave will Ue heaviest on the 
mindy of all the sins we can commit. 

ü. C You talk too leelingly and sensibly for me, 
Atkiojs ; I cannot bear it. 

W, A. You bear it, master ! I dare say you know 
notking of it. 

Ä. C. Yes, Atkins ; every shore, every hill, nay, 
I inay say every tree in tkis island, is witness to the 
aognuh of my soul for my ineratitude and bad nsage 
of a goody tender fiither ; a lather much like yours, 
by your description: and I murdered my father as 
well as you. Will Atkins ; but I think, for all that, 
my repentance is short of yours too, by a great deal. 

I woald liave said more, if I eoald have restrained 
my passions ; bat I thought this poor man 's repent- 
aace was so mach sincerer than mine, that J was 
going to leave off the discourse and retire ; for I was 
sorprised with what he had said, and thought that 
joatead of my going about to teach and instruet him, 
the man was made a teacher and instructer to me in a 
most surprising and unexpected mauner. 

I laid all this before the young cierg3rman, who 
was greatly affected with it, and said to me, <' Did I 
not say, Sir, that when this man was converted he 
woald preach to us all ? I teil you, Sir, if this one 
man be made a true penitent, here will be no need of 



144 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

nie ; he will make.Chrisliaiiar of all in the island."— 
But ha^ing a little composed myself, I renewed mr 
discourse with Will Atkins. *' But Will," said I, 
*^ how comes the sense of this matter to tooch yoa 
just now ?" 

TF. A, Sir, you have get me about a work that has 
Struck a dart tbrough my very soul ; I have been talk- 
ing about God and religion to my ivife, in order, as 
you directed me,'to make a* Christian of her, and she 
has preaehed such a sermon to me as I shall never 
forget wbile I live. 

R. C. No, no, it is not your wife has preaehed to 
you ; but when you were moving religious arguments 
to her, conscience has flung them back on you. 

W, A, Ayey Sir^ with such force as is not to be rs- 
sisted. 

R. C Pray, Will, let us know what passed be- 
tween you and your wife ; for I know something of it 
already. 

W. A. Sir, it is impossible to giye you a füll ac- 
count of it : I am too lull to hold it, and yet have no 
tongue to express it ; but let her have said what she 
will, and though I cannot give you an account of it, 
this I can teil you, that I have resolved to amend and 
reform my life. 

jR. C. But teil US some of it : how did you begin, ' 
Will ? for this has been an extraordinary case, thi^t is 
eertain. She has preaehed a sermon, indeed, if «he 
has wrought this on you. 

W, A. Why, I first told her the nature of our laws 
about marriage, and what the reasons were that men 
and women were i^bliged to enter into such compacts, 
as it was neither in the power of one nor the other lo 
break ; that otherwise, order and justice could uot be 
raaintained, and men would run from their wives, and' 
abandon their children, mix confusedly with one an- 
other, and neither families be kept entire^ nor inherit- 
ances be settled by legal descent. 



OF ROBINSOI^ C^EIUSÖE. 145 

. i2» C. You talk like • civilian, Will. Could you 
■lake her understand what you meant by inberitance 
ud families ? Tbey know no such tbings among the 
Bavages» but marry any how, witbout regard to re- 
latioDy consanguinity, or family; brotber and sister, 
Day, as I have been told, eveo tbe fäther and tbe 
daugbter, and the son and tbe mother/ 

W, A. I beliebe, Sir^ you are misinformed, and my 
wife assures me of tbe contrary, and that tbey abbor 
i€; perhaps, for any farther relations, tbey may not 
be so exact as we are ; but she teils me tbey never 
teuch one another in the near relation^ip you speak 
of. 

R. C. Well, what did she say to what you told 

W, A, She Said she liked it yery well, and it was 
■luch better tban in her country. 

R. C. But did you teil her what marriage was ? 

W. A, Aye, aye; there began our dialogue. I 
•sked her if she would be married to me our way. 
She asked me what way that was. I told her mar- 
riage was appointed by God; and here we had a 
•tiange talk togetber, indeed, as e^er man and wife 
bad, I believe. 

iV^ B, Tbis dialogue between Will Atkins and bis 
wife I took down in writing, just after be had told it 
me, which was as foUows : 

Wife. Appointed by your God ! Why, have you 
a God in your country ? 

W, A. Yes, my dear, God is in every country. 

Wife. No your God in my country; my country 
ksve tbe great old Benamuckee God. 

W. A. Child, 1 am yery unfit to show you wbo 
Gkid is; God is in beayen, and made tbe beayen and 
tbe earth, tbe sea, and all that in tbem is. 

Wife. No makee de earth ; no you God makee all 
earth ; no makee my country. 

VOL. II. K 



146 LIFE AN^ ADVENTURBS 

Will Atkins laughed a litfe at lier ezpressioB of 
God not making her country. 

Wife. No laugh; why laugh me? This nothi^ 
to laugh. 

He was justly reproved by his wife^ for she was 
more serious than he at first. 

W, A, That 's tnie, indeed ; I will not laugh any 
more, my dear. 

Wife. Why, you say you God makee all. 

W. A. Yes, child, our God made the whole world, 
and you and me, and all things ; for he is the only 
true God, and there is no God bat tum; he lives fiir 
ever in heaven. 

Wife. Why yoü no teil me long ago ? 

W. A. That 's true indeed; but I have been t 
wicked wretch, and have not önly forgotten to ae- 
quaint thee with any thing before, but haye hwei 
without God in the world myself. 

Wife. What, have you a great God in yoiv coun- 
try, you no know him ? No say O to bim ? No do 
good thing for him ? That no possible. 

W. A. It is true ; though, for all that, we live m 
if there was no God in heaven, or that he had wo 
power on earth. 

Wife. But why God let you do so ? Why he no 
makee you good live ? 

W. A. It is all our own fault. 

Wife. But you say me he is great, much great, 
have much great power, can makee kill when he will* 
why he no makee kill when you no serve him ? No 
say O to him, no be good mans. 

W. A. That is true, he might strike me dead; and 
I ought to expect it, for I have been a wicked wretch, 
that is true ; but God is merciful, and does not deal 
with US as we deserve. 

Wife. But then do you not teil God thankee ior 
that too ? 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 147 

TT« A, Noy indeedy i have not thanked God for 
bis mercy, any more than I have feared God for bis 
power. 

Wife. Then you God no God ; me no think helieve 
he be such one, great much power, strong ; no makee 
kill you, though you make bim much angry. 

JV, A, Wbat, will my vdcked life hinder you from 
believing in God ? What a dreadful creature am I ! 
and what a sad truth is it, that the borrid lives of 
Christians hinder the conversion of heatbens ! 

Wife* How me think you have great much God up 
tliere (she points up to heaven,) and yet no do well, 
no do good thing ? €an he teil ? Sure he no teil 
what you do ! 

W. A. Yes, yes, he knows and sees all things ; bä 
kears us speak, sees what we do, knows what we 
think, though we do not speak. 

Wife. What! he no bear you curse, swear, speak 
de great damn ? 

fr. A. Yes, yes, he hears it all. 

Wife. Wliere be then the much great power strong ? 

W. A. He is merciful, that is all we can say for it; 
and this proves bim to be the true God ; he is God, 
and not man, and therefore we are not consumed. 

Bere Will Atkins told us he was Struck with horror, 
to tbink how he could teil bis wife so clearly that God 
sees, and hears, and knows the secret thoughts of the 
beart, and all that we do, and yet that he bad dared 
to do all the vile things he bad done. 

Wife. Merciful ! Wbat you call that ? 

W, A. He is our fatber and maker, and be pities 
and spares us. 

Wife^ So then be neyer makee kill, nevef angry 
wben you do wicked ; then he no good himself, or no 
great able. 

W. A. Yes, yes, my dear, he is infinitely good and 
intinitely great» and able to punish too ; and some- 



14a LttE AND ADVENTURfiS 

times, to show his justice and vengeance, he lets fly 
his anger to destroy sinners and make examplesf 
many are cut off in their sins. 

JVife. Bul no makee kill you yet ; then he teil you, 
may be, that he no makee you kill ; so you makee 6e 
bargain with him, you do bad thing, he no be angry 
at you when he be angry at other mans. 

fV, A, No, indeed; my sins are all presumptkms 
ön his goddness; and he would be infinitely just if Im 
destroyed me, as he has done other men. 

Wije. Well, and yet no kill, no makee you dead; 
what you^ay to him for that? You no teil hin 
thanke^ for all that too ? 

W, A. I am an unthankful, ungrateful dog, that is 
true. 

Wife. Why he no makee you much good better? 
you say he makee you. 

TF.il. He made me, as he made all the world : it 
is I have deformed myself and abused his goodnes, 
and made myself an abominable wretch. 

Wife. I wish you makee God know me ; T no 
makee bim angry, I no do bad wieked thing. 

Here Will Atkins said his heart sunk väthin him, 
to hear a poor untaught creature desire to be taugbt 
to know God, and he such a wieked wretch that he 
could not say one word to her about God, but what 
the reproach of his own carriage would make most 
irrational to her to believe ; nay, that already she 
had told him that she could not belicTe in God^ be- 
cause he, that was so wieked, was not destroyed. 

TF. A. My dear, you mean, you wish I could teach 
you to know God, not God to know you ; for he 
knows you already, and every tbought in« your heart. 

Wife. Why then he know wbat 1 say to you now; 
he know me wish to know him ; how shall me know^ 
who makee me ? 

W. A, Poor creature, he must teach thee, I can* 



jOF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 14D 

not ieach thee ; I will pray to bim to teach thee to 
kaow hhn, and forgive me, that am unworthy to teach 
thee. 

The poor fellow was in such an agony at her de- 
nring him to make her know God, and her wishing 
to know him, that he said he feil down on his knees 
before her, and prayed to God to enlighten her mind 
Hrith the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, and to 
jpardon his sins, and accept of his being the unworthy 
Instrument of instructing her in the principles of reli* 
rion : after which he sat down by her again, and their 
iialogue went on. — ^This .was the time when we saw 
him kneel down, and hold up his hands. 

Wife. What you put down the knee for ? Wbat 
you hold up the hand for ? What you say ? Who 
you speak to ? What is all that ? 

W, A. My dear, I bow my knees in token of my 
Submission to him that made me ; I said O to him, 
BS you call it, and as your old men do to their idol 
Benamuckee ; that is, I prayed to him. 

Wife. What you say O to him for ? 

W^ A, 1 prayed to him to open your eyes and 
your understanding, that you may know him» and b« 
Bocepted by him. 

^^/e. Can he do that too ? 

Wl A. Yes, he can ; he can do all things, 

^i/e. But now he hear what you say ? 

W] A. Yes; he has bid us pray to him, and pro* 
mised to hear us. 

Wife. Bid you pray ? When he bid you ? How 
be l>id you ? What, you hear him speak ? 

W. A. No, we do not hear him speak ; but he has 
revealed himself many ways to us. 

Here he was at a great loss to make her under- 
ilaiid that God has revealed himself to us by his 
HTord, and what his word was; but at last he told 
il her thus : 

W. A. God has spoken to some good men in for- 



150 LIFE AND ABYENTURfiS 

mer days, eyen from heaven, by pläin words; and 
God has inspired good men by bis Spirit ; and tfaey 
bave written all bis laws down in a book. 

Wife. Me no underetand that ; wbere is book ? 

'TF. A. Alas! my poor creature, I bave not thts 
book ; but I hope I sball one time or otber get it fbr 
you, and help you to read it. 

Here be embraced her witb great affection ; bot 
witb inexpressible grief that be bad not a Bible. 

Wife, But how you makee me know tbat God 
teachee tbem to write tbat book ? 

W, A, By the same rule that we know bim to be 
God. 

Wife. What rule ? What way you know bim ? 

W. A. Beeause be teacbes and commands nothing 
but what is good, righteous, and boly» and tends to 
make us perfectly good, as well as perfectly bappy; 
and beeause he forbids, and commands us to ayoid, 
all tbat is wicked, tbat is evil in itself^ or evil in its 
consequenee. 

Wife, Tbat me would understand, that me üun 
see : if he teachee all good thing, he makee all good 
thing, he giye all thing, be bear me when I say O fd 
bim, as you do just now ; he makee me good» if I 
wish to be good; he spare me, no makee kill me, 
when I no be good : all this you say he do, yet hb be 
great God: me take, think, believe bim to be great 
God ; me say O to bim with you, my dear. 

Here the poor man could forbear no longer, bot 
taised her up, made her kneel by bim, and be preyed 
to God aloud to instruct her in the knowledge of hni- 
self, by his Spirit ; and that by some good providence, 
if possible, she might some time or other come to bave 
a Bible, that she might read the word of God, and be 
taught by it to know bim. — ^This was the time that we 
saw him lift her up by the band, and saw bim kneel 
down by ber, as above. 
^ Tbey bad ^everal other discoprses, ii «eemsi «fter 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 151 

tbiSy too long to be set down here ; and particularly 
•he made him promisey that since he confessed his own 
life had been a wicked abominable course of provoca- 
tions against God, that he would reform it, and not 
•make God angry any more ; lest he should make him 
dead, as she called it, and then she would be left 
alone, and neyer be taught to know this God better ; 
«od lest be should be miserable» as he had told her 
wicked men would be, after death. 

This was a Strange account, and very aiFecting to 
US both, but particularly to the young clergyman : h6 
was indeed wonderfully surprised with it, but under 
the greatest affliction imaginable that he could not 
talk to her, that he could not speak English, to make 
her understand him ; and as she spoke but yery broken 
.JBnglish« be could not understand her ; howeyer, he 
tumed himself to me, and told me that he belieyed 
•that thore must be more to do with this woman than 
U> marry her. I did not understand him at first, but 
at length he explained himself, yiz. that she ought to 
be baptized. I agreed with him in that part readily, 
and was for going about it presently. ** No, no ; 
bold, Sir/' said he; *' tbough 1 would haye her be 
baptised by all means, yet I must obserye that Will 
AtkiBs, her hosband, has indeed brought her, in a 
wonderful manner, to be willing to embrace a religioup 
life, and has giyen her just ideas of the being of a 
6od ; of his power, justice, and mercy : yet I desire 
to know of him if he has said any thing to her of 
Jesus Christ, and of the salyation oi sinners ; of the 
nature of faith in him, and redemption by him ; of the 
Holy Spirit, the resurrection, the last judgment, and 
a future state." 

' I called Will Atkins again, and asked him ; but 
tlw poor feilow feil immediately into tears, and told 
tts he had said something to her of all those things, 
bat that he was himself so wicked a creature, and bis 
own ooBScience so reproached him with lus horrido 



152 LIFE AND AOVBNTÜRES 

tingodly life, that he trembled at the apprehenaiÖBt 
that her knowledge of him should lessen the attentioB 
she should give to those things» and make her rather 
contemn religion than recei^e it ; but he was assured, 
he Said, that her mind was so disposed to recem 
due impressions of all those things, that if I wouU 
but discourse with her, she would make it i^pear t» 
my satisfaction that my labout would not be kft 
on her. 

Accordingly, I called her in, and placing myself a» 
Interpreter. between my religious priest and the womao, 
I entreated him to begin with her; but sure such a 
sermon was never preached by a popish priest in thBN 
latter ages of the world ; and, as I told him, I thought 
he had all the zeal, all the knowledge, all the sincerity 
of a Christian, without the error of a Roman Catholie; 
and that I took him to be such a derg^yman as Um 
'Roms.n bbhops were» before the churdh of Rome 
assumed spiritual sovereignty o^er the consciences <i( 
men. In a word, he brought the poor woman to em- 
brace the knowledge of Christ, and of redemption by 
him, not with wonder and astonishment only, as she 
did the first notions of a God, but with joy and Cuth; 
with an affection, and a surprising degree of undcr« 
Standing, scarce to be imagined, much less to be eX'« 
pressed ; and, at her own request, she was baptized. 

When he was preparing to baptize her, I entreated 
him that he would perform that office with some can* 
tion, that the man might not perceive he was of the 
Roman church, if possible, because of other ill cott» 
sequences whieh might attend a difference among lu 
in that yery religion which we were instructing tbs 
other in* He told me that as he had no consecrated 
chapel, nor proper things for the office, I shonld see 
he would do it in a manner that I should not know by 
it that he was a Roman Catholic myself, if I had noi 
known it before ; and so he did ; for saying only some 
words over to himself in Latin^ which I could nd 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE« 153 

«nderstand, he poured a whole dishfuU of water od the 
woman's head, pronoancing in French yery loud, 
** Mary, (which was the name her husband desired 
ne to give her, for I was her godfather,) I baptize 
thee in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and 
d the Holy Ghost;'' so that none could know any 
thing by it what religion he was of. He gave the 
Jbesediction afterwards in Latin, buteither Wiii Atkins 
did not know but it was French, or eise did not take 
«otice of it at that time. 

As soon as this was over, we married them ; and 
after the marriage was over, he turned to Will Atkins, 
and in a yery affectionate manner exhorted him, not 
only to persevere in that good disposition he was in, 
bat to Support the convictions that were on him by a 
molution to reform his life ; told him it was in yain 
|q flay he repented if he did not forsake his crimes ; 
rapresented to him how God had honoured him witb 
baing the Instrument of bringing his wife to the know-* 
ledge of the Christian religion, and that he should be 
earefiil he did not dishonour the graee of God ; and 
that if he did, he would see the heathen a better 
Christian than himself ; the sayage conyerted, and the 
inatrument cast away. He said a great many good 
Üüngs to themboth ; and then recommending them to 
God's goodness, gaye them the benediction again, I 
rapeating eyery thing to them in English; and thua 
eaoed the ceremony. I think it was the most pleasant 
and agreeable day to me that eyer I passea in my 
wkole life. 

But my dergyman had not done yet ; his thoughts 
hBng continualfy on the conyersion of the thirty- 
aavea sayages, and fain he would haye staid on the 
ttiaad to haye undertaken it ; but I conyinced him« 
fint, that his undertaking was impracticable in itself $ 
aad» secondly, that perhaps I would put it into a way of 
batng done in his absence to his satisfaction ; of which 
b j aod by% 



154 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

Having thus brought the affairs of the Island io t 
narrow compass, I was preparing to go on board the 
8hip, when the young man 1 had taken out of the &• 
mished ship's Company came to me, and told me he 
understood I had a clergyman with me, and thati 
had caused the Englishmen to be married to the sava* 
ges ; that he had a match too, which he desired migfat 
be finished before I went, between two Chri8tiani> 
which be boped would not be disagreeable to me. 

I knew this must be the young woman who was hit 
mother's serrant, for there was no other Christian wo- 
man on the island : so I began to persuade him not to 
do any tbing of that kind rashly, or because he found 
himself in this solitary circumstance. I represented to 
him that he had some considerable substance in ihß 
worid, and good friends, as I understood by himself, 
and the maid also ; that the maid was not only poor, 
and a servant, but was unequal to him, she b^g lix 
or seyen and twenty years old, and he not above se- 
venteen or eighteen; that he might very probaMy, 
with my assistance, make a remove from 4;his wiMor- 
ness, and come into bis own country ag'ain ; and that 
then it would be a tbousand to one but he would re* 
pent his choice, and the dislike of that circumstance 
might be disadyantageous to both. I was going to 
say more, but he interrupted me, smiling, and told me, 
with a great deal of modesty, that I mistook in my 
guesses; that he had nothing of that kind in h» 
Öioughts ; and he was yery glad to hear that I had aa 
intent of putting them in a way to see their own coon- 
try again ; and nothing should haye put him on sta3^n^ 
there, but that the yoyage I was going was so exceed- 
ing long and hazardous, and would carry him quite 
out of the reach of all his friends ; that he had nothing 
to desire of me, but that I would settle him in some 
little property in the island where he was, give.him a 
seryant or two, and. some few necessaries, and he 
would settle himself here like a planter, waiticg the 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE« 155 

good time when, if eyer I returned to England, I 
would redeem them ; and hoped I wonld not be un- 
mindful of bim when I came to England : that be 
woald give me some letters to bis fiiends in London , 
to let tbem know bow good I bad been to bim, and in 
wbat part of tbe world, and wbat circumstances I bad 
leh bim ; and be promised me, tbat wbeneyer I re- 
deemed bim, tbe plantation, and all tbe improyements 
be bad made on it, let tbe yalue be wbat it would, 
sbould be wbolly mine. 

His discourse was yery prettily deliyered, consider- 
ing bis youtb, and was tbe more agreeable to me, be*- 
-oause be told me positiyely tbe matcb was not for 
himself. 1 gaye bim all possible assurances tbat if I 
liyed to come safe to England, I would deliyer bis let« 
fers, and do bis business effectually ; and tbat be might 
fiepend I sbould neyer forget tbe circumstances I bad 
lert bim in : but still I was impatient to know who 
was tbe person to be roarried ; on wbicb be told me it 
was ny Jack of all Trades and bis maid Susan, t 
was most agreeably surprised wben be named tbe 
matcb ; for indeed I tbongbt it yery suitable. Tbe 
•diaracter of tbat man I baye giyen already ; and aa 
for tbe maid, sbe was a yery bonest, modest, sober, 
and religious young woman ; bad a yery good sbare of 
sense, was agreeable enougb in ber person, spokeyery 
bandsomely, and to tbe purpose, always witb decency 
and good manners, and neitner too backward to speak, 
wben requisite, nor impertinently forwaid, wbenitwafi 
not ber business ; yery bandy and bousewifely, and an 
exoellent manager ; fit, indeed, to baye been goyerneas 
to the wbole island, and sbe knew yery well bow tO 
behaye in eyery respect. 

Tbe matcb being proposed in tbis manner, we map- 
ried tbem tbe same aay ; and as I was fatber at the 
aitar, as I may say, and gaye ber away, so I gaye hsd 
A portion ; for I appointed her and her busband It 
^M^dsome . large space of ground for tbeir plaatation ; 



.1% LIFE AKD ADVENTVRBS 

and, indeed, this match, and the proposal the yonng 
gentleman made to give him a small property in the 
Island, put me on parcelling it out amongst theBi> 
that they might not quarrel afterwards about their 
Situation. 

This sharing out the land .to them I left to WiH 
AtkinSy ivho was now grown a sober, grave, managing 
fellow, perfectly reformed, exceedingly pious and 
;religious, and, as far as I may be allowea to speak 
positively in such a case, I verily believe be was a 
true penitent. He divided things so justly, and «o 
much to every one's satlsfaction, that they only de» 
^red one general writing under my band for the 
whole, which I caused to be drawn up, and signed 
and sealed to them, setting out the bounds and sita- 
aüon of every man's plantation, and testifying that I 
gave them thereby severally a right to the whole pos- 
session and inheritance of the respective plaiitation9 
or farms, with their improvements, to them and their 
heirs, reserying all the rest of the Island as my own 
property, and a certain rent for every particular plant« 
ation after eleven years, if I, or any one from me, 
or in my name, came to demand it, producing an at* 
tested copy of the same writing. 

As to the government and laws among them, I told 
them I was not capable of giving them better rules 
than they were able to give themselves ; only I made 
them promise me to live in love and good neighbour- 
hood with one another ; and so I prepared to leave 
them. 

One thing I must not omit, and .that is, that being 
now settied in a kind of commonwealth among them- 
selves, and having much business in band, it was bot 
odd to haVe seven and thirty Indians live in a nook 
of the Island, independent, and, indeed, unemployed; 
for, excepting the providing themselves food» which 
they had difficulty enough to do, sometimes they had 
jio manner of business or property to manage. I pto» 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 157 

posed, therefore, to the governor Spaniafd, that he 
should go to them Yfith Friday's father, and propose 
to them to remove, and either plant for themselves, or 
take them into their several families as servants, to be 
maintained for their labour, but without being abso- 
lute slaves ; for I would not admit them to make them 
slaves by force, by any means; because they had 
their liberty given them by capitulation, and as it were 
artieles of surrender, which they ought not to break. 

They most willingly embraced the proposal, and 
came all very cheerful along with him : so we allotted 
them land, and plantations, which three or four ae- 
oepted of, but all the rest chose to be employed as 
senrants in the several families we had settled ; and 
thus my colony was in a manner settled as follows : — 
TheSpaniards possessed my original habitation, which 
was the capital city, and extended their plantations 
all along the side of the brook, which made the creek 
that I have so often described, as far as my bower ; 
and as they increased their culture, it went always 
€ttstward. The English lived in the north-east part, 
where Will Atkins andhis comrades began, and came 
OD southward and south-west, .towards the back part 
of the Spaniards : and every plantation had a great 
addition of land to take in, if they found occasion, 
ao that they need not jostle one another for want of 
room. All the east end of the island was left un- 
inhabited, that if any of the savages should come on 
shore there only for their usual customary barbarities, 
they might come and go ; if they disturbed nobody, 
nobody would disturb them : and no doubt but they* 
were often ashore, and went away again, for I never 
l^ard that the planters were eyer attacked or disturbed 
any more. 

It now came into my thoughts that I had hinted to 
my friend the clergyman that the work of Converting 
the savages might perhaps be set on foot in his ab- 
to his satisfaction ; and I told him that now I 



158 LI7E AND ADYENTURES 

ibought it was put in a fair way, for the ^aTages bong 
thus divided among the Christians, if they would brt 
eyery one of them do their part with those which came 
under their hands, I hoped it might have a yery good 
effect. 

He agreed presently in that» if they did their part 
" But how/' says ke, '' shall we obtain that of them 1" 
I told him we would call them all together, and leave 
it in Charge with them, or go to them, one by one, 
which he thought best : so we divided it, he to speak 
to the Spaniards, who were all Papists, and I to tbe 
English, who were all Protestants; and we recom- 
mended it earnestly to them, and made them promiae 
that they would never make any distinction of Papist 
or Protestant in their exhorting the savages to turn 
Christians, but teach them the general knowledge of 
the true God, and of their Saviour Jesus Christ ; and 
they likewise promised us that they would never have 
any differences or disputes one with another abont re- 
ligion. 

When I came to Will Atkins's house, (I may call it 
so, for such a house, or such a piece of basket-work, 
I believe, was not standing in the world again,) there 
I found the young woman I have mentiobed above, 
and Will Atkins's wife, were become intimates ; and 
this prudent, religious young woman had perfected 
the work Will Atkins had begun ; and though it vma 
not above four days after what I have related, yet the 
new-baptized savage woman was made such a Chris- 
tian as I have seldom heard of in all my Observation 
or conversation in the world. 

It came next into my mind, in the morning before 
I went to them, that amongst all the needful things I 
had to leave with them, I had not left them a Bible, 
in which I showed myself less considering for them 
than my good friend the widow was for me, when she 
sent me the cargo of a hundred pounds from Lisbon, 
where she packed up three Bibles and a Prayer-book. 



OF ROBINSON CRI3SOB, 159 

Howe.ver, the good woman's charity had a greater ex- 
teot ihan eyer she imagined, for they were reservect 
for the comfort and instruction of Uiose that made 
lauch better use of them than I had done. 

I took one of the Bibles in my pocket, and when. 
I came to Will Atkins's tent, or house, and found the 
yoang woman and Atkins's baptize^ ^^^^ had been 
discoursing of religion together, (for Will Atkins told 
it me with a great deal of joy) I asked if they were 
together now, and he said yes; so I went into the 
hoose» and he with me» and we found them together 
very earnest in discourse. ** O, Sir," says Will At- 
kins, " when God has sinners to reconcile to himself» 
and aliens to bring home, he neyer wants a messen-« 
ger : my wife has got a new instructor ; I knew I 
was as unworthy as I was incapable of that work ; 
that young woman has been sent hither from heaven ; 
she is enough to convert a whole island of savages." 
The young woman blushed, and rose up to go away, 
but I desired her to sit still ; I told her she had a 
good work on her hands, and I hoped God would 
bless her in it. 

We talked a little, and I did not pereeive they had 
any book among them, though I did not ask; but I 
put my hand into my pocket, and pulled out my Bi- 
ble : ** Here," says I to Atkins, '* I have brought 
you an assistant that perhaps you had not before." 
The man was so confounded that he was not able to 
speak for some time ; but recovering himself, he takea 
it with bothhis hands, and turning to his wife, '' Here, 
my dear," says he, *' did not I teil you our God, 
though he lives above, eould hear what we said ? 
Here is the book I prayed for when you and I kneeled 
down under the bush ; now God has heard us, and 
aent it." When he had said so, the man feil into such 
transports of passionate joy, that between the joy of 
Uaving it, and giving God thanks for it, the tears ran 
down his face like a child that was crying. 



160 LIFE AND ADVBNTUItBS 

The woman was surprised, and was like to faave 
run into a mistake that none of us were aware of, iiir 
she firmly believed God had sent the book on her hut^ 
band's petition. It is tnie, that providentially it wai 
so, and might be taken so in a consequent sense ; bot 
I believe it would have been no difficult matte*, at 
that tinie, to have persuaded the poor woman to Iftttre 
believed that an express messenger came from Heavea 
on purpose to bring that individual book ; but it was 
too serious a matter to suffer any delüsion to take 
place ; so I turned to the young woman, and told her 
we did not desire to impose on the new eonvert, in her 
first and more ignorant understanding of things, and 
begged her to ex piain to her that God may be very 
properly said to answer pur petitions, when, in the 
course of bis providence, such things are in a parti- 
cular manner brought to pass as we petitioned for; 
but we did not expect returns from Heaven in a mira- 
culous and particular manner, and it is our mercy that 
it is not so. 

This the young woman did afterwards effectually, 
so that there was, I assure you, no priestcraft used 
here ; and I should have thought it one of the most 
unjustifiable frauds in the world to have had it so. 
But the surprise of joy on Will Atkins is really not 
to be expressed ; and there, we may be sure, was no 
delüsion. Sure no man was ever more thankful in the 
World for any thing of its kind than he was for tiie 
Bible; and, I believe, never any man was glad of a 
Bible from a better principle; and, though he had 
been a most profligate creature, headstrong, furioos, 
and desperately wicked, yet this man is a standing 
rule to US all for the well instructing children, viz. 
that parents should never give over to teach and 4n- 
struct, nor ever despair of the success of their endea- 
vours, let the children be ever so refiractory, or, to 
appearance, insensible of Instruction; for, if ever 
God, in his providence, touches the conscience of 



OF KOBINSON CHUSOBi 161 

Mdh» the foro0 of their education returns . on Üieoiy 
«od tbe early iBstruction of parents is not lost, tiiougk 
it may have been many jears laid asleep, but, some 
4nDe or otheir, they may find the benefit of it. Thus 
it was with this poor man; however Ignorant- he was 
of reUgion and Christian knowledge, he found be had 
MMBe to do with now more Ignorant Aan himself, and 
that the least part of the instruction of his good father 
ihat now came to his mind was of use to him. 

Among the rest it occurred to l\im, he said, how 
liis father used to insist so much on the inexpressible 
Talue of the Bible, and the povilege and blessing of it 
io nationSy families, and persons ; but he never enter^ 
tained the least notion of the worth of it tili now, 
when being to talk to heathens, savages, and barba^ 
riansy he vj^anted the help of the wxitten oracle for his 
assistance. 

The young woman was glad of it also for tbe pr&- 
aeot occasion, though she had one, and so had the 
jpouth, on board our ship, among their goods, which 
were not yet brougbt on shore. And now having said 
ao many Üiings of this young woman, I cannot omit 
4eUiBg one story more of her and myself, which has 
«omething in it very informing änd remarkable. 

I have related to what extremity the poor young 
woman was reduced, how her mistress was starved to 
4eatb, and died On board that unhappy ship we met 
.at aea, and how the whole ship's Company was re<- 
.duced to the last extremity, The gentlewoman and 
her son, aii|^ this maid, were iirst hardly used, as to 
pcoTisions, änd at last totally neglected and starved ; 
that is to say, brought to the last extremity of hunger. 
Ooe day, being ducoursing with h^r on the extre- 
jüities they suffered, I asked her if she could describe, 
by what she had feit, what it was to starve, and how 
It appeared? She told me she believed she could, 
«od ahe told her tale very distinctly, thus : 

** Fint, Sir/' said she, *' we had for some days 
VOL. II. v 



162 LIFE AMD ADVBNTÜRB8 

fared ezceeding hard, and suffered yeiy great liunger: 
but at last we were wholly without food of any kiiid, 
except sugar, and a little wine and water. The fint 
day, after I had received no food at all, I found my- 
seit, towards evening; first empty and sick at the sto^ 
mach, and nearer night much inclined to yawnipg and 
sleep. I laid down on a couch in tfae great cabin to 
sleep, and slept about three hours, and awaked a little 
refreshed, having taken a glass of Wine wben I lay 
down : after being about three hours awake, it being 
about five o'elock in the morning, I found myself 
empty, and my stomaeh sickish, and lay down again, 
but could not sleep at all, being very faint and ill; 
and thus I continued all the second day, . with a 
Strange yariety, first hungry, then sick again,- with 
retchings to vomit. The second night, being obliged 
to go to bed again without, any food, more than a 
-draught of fresh water, and being asleep, I drearaed I 
was at Barbadoes, and that the market was migfatily 
-stocked with provisions; that I bought some for my 
mistress, and went and dined very heartily. I thougiit 
my stomaeh was as füll after this as it would have 
been after a good dinner ; but when I awaked, I was 
exceedingly sunk in my spirits to find myself in the 
extremity of famine. The last glass of wine we had 
I drank, and put sugar in it, beeause of its haTing 
some spirit to supply nourishment ; but there being no 
substance in the stomaeh for the digesting office to 
work on, I found the only effect of the wine was, 
to raise disagreeable fumes from the stomaeh into the 
head ; and I lay, as they told me, stupid and sense- 
less, as one drunk, for some time. The third day^ ia 
the morning, after a night of stränge, confused, and 
inconsistent dreams, and rather dozing than sleeping, 
I awaked ravenous and furious with hunger ; and I 
question,had not my understanding returned and con- 
quered it, whether, if I had been a mother, and had 
had a little child with me, its life would haye been 
safe OT not. This laatßd about three hours; during 



PF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 163 

Vrhich time I was twice raging mad as any creature it 
Bedlam» as my young master told me, and as he can 
Bow inform you. 

*' In one öf these fits of lunacy or distraction I feil 
down, and Struck my face against the corner of a 
pallet-bed, in - which my mistress lay, and, with the 
dIow, the blood gushed out of my nose; and the 
.cabia-boy bringing me a little basin, I sat down and 
bled into it a great deal ; and as the blood came from 
.me, I came to myself, and the violence of the flame 
or feyer-I was in abated, and so did the ravenöus part 
of the hunger. Then I grew sick, and retched to 
vomit, but could not, for I had nothing in my stomacli 
to bring up. After I had bled some time, I swooned, 
aod they all believed I was dead ; but I came to my> 
seif soon after, and then had a most dreadful pain in 
my stomach, not to be described, not like the colic, 
bot a gnawing, eager pain for food ; and towards the 
night it' went off, with a kind of earnest wishing or 
loDgtng for food, something like, as I suppose, the 
longing of a woman with child. I took another 
draugfat of water, with sugar in it; but. my stomach 
loathed the sugar, and brought it all up again : then I 
took a draught oi' water without sugar, and that 
stayed with me; and I laid me down on the bed, 
praying most heartily that it would please God to 
take me away ; and composing my mind in hopes of 
it, I slumbered- awhile, and then waking, thought 
myself dying, being light with vapors from an empty 
•tomach; I. recommended my soul then to God, and 
earoestly wished that somebody would throw me into 
the sea. 

** All this while my mistress lay by me, just, as I 
tliovght, expiring, but bore it with much more pa- 
tieoce than 1 ; and gave the last bit of bread she had lefl 
to her child, my young master, who would not have 
taken it, but she obliged him to eat it ; and I beliebe 
it «aved bis life. 



16A UPS AND ABVEKTUKSB 

'' Towards the mornmg I slept agsiii ; aaid vAiek i 
awoke, I feil into a violent passion of dyäng, «ai 
after that had a second fit of violent hunger : I got «f 
ravenous, and in a most dreadfnl condition : had my 
mistress been dead, as much as I loyed her, i am cflr- 
tain I shoold have eaten a piece of her flesh wiäi u 
much relish, and as unconcerned, as eyer I did eat 
the flesh of any creature appointed for food ; aad 
once or twice I was going to bite my own ann z at 
last I saw the basin in which was the blood I ht4 
bled at my nose the day before ; I ran to it, aad 
awallowed it with such haste, and such a greedy appe- 
tite, as if I wondered nobody had taken it betbia» 
and afraid it should be taken from me now. After it 
was down, though the thouffhts of it fiUed me witk 
horror, yet it ehecked the nt of hunger, and I took 
another draught of water, and was composed and vfr- 
freshed for some hours after. This was the fourth 
iday; and thus I held it tili towards night; when, 
within the compass of three hours, I had all these- 
veral eircumstances over again, one after another, tiz. 
sick, sleepy, eagerly hungry, pain in the stomach, theo 
ravenous again ; then sick, then lunatic, tben crying, 
then ravenous again, and so every quarter of an hour ; 
and my strength wasted exceedingly : at night I laid 
me down, having no comfort but in the hope that I 
should die before morning. 

*^ All this night I had no sleep; but the hunger 
was now tumed into a disease ; and I had a terrible 
colic and griping, by wind, instead of food, haviag 
found its way into the bowels ; and in this conditioa 
I lay tili morning, when I was surprised with the cri« 
and lamentations of my young master, who called cot 
to me that bis mother was dead. I lifted myself up a 
little, for I had not strength to rise, but found she wts 
not dead, though she was able to give very little signs 
of life. 

*' I had then such convulsions in my stomach, &it 



OF ROBIirSQN CRUSOE. IÖ& 

tnmt of soine tfosteiMuice, that I cannot describe r with 
sach frequent throes aad pangs of appedile, Ihat no* 
Ihiog btU the tortures of death can imitate ; and in 
this ODüdition I was when I heard the seamen aboiEe 
ery out, ' A sali ! a sail !' and balloo and juwp about 
m if thejT wen distracted. 

** I was not able io get off from the bed, and nrf 
nstress much less; and my young master was so 
ricky that I tluNigfat he had been. expiring ; so we 
coold not open the cabin door, or get any acconnt 
wiiat k was that occasioned such confusion ; nor had 
we any coKTersation with the ship's Company for two 
daySy tfaey faaring told us that they had not a mouth- 
fid of amy thing to eat in the ship ; and they told 
na afWwards, they tbought we had been desä. It 
ms this dreadfiil condition we were in when yoit were 
MBt to saT« cur Ufea; and how you found us» str, you 
kiiow as well as I, and better too." 

This was her own relation, and ts such a distind 
lecoant of stanring to death, as» I üonfess, I never 
inet with, and was exceeding entertaining to nie. I 
am the rather apt to belieye it to be a true account, 
hecause the youlh gave me an account of a good patt 
of tt ; thongh, I musi own, not so distinct and so ieet« 
ing as the maid ; and the rather, because it seems hk 
siother fed him at the price of her own life ; but the 
poor maid, though her Constitution being stronger than 
that of her mistress, who was in years, and a weakly 
woman too, she might struggk harder with it ; I say, 
die poor maid might be supposed to feel the extremity 
•omething sooner than her mistress, who might be aU 
Iowed to keep the last bit something k>nger than she 
parted with any to relieve the maid. No question, 
as the case is kere related, if our ship, or some other 
had not so providentially met them, a few days moie 
woold hare ended all their lives, unless they had pr«^ 
Tented it by eating one another; and that even, as 
tbeir case stood, would have served them but a Uttla 



166 LIFE*AND ADVENTURBS 

while, they being five hündred league&from ahy land; 
or any possibility of relief, other than in the miracu« 
lous manner it happened : but this is by the way ; I 
return to my disposition of things among the people. ' * 
. And^ first, it is to be observed keT^e, that for mäny 
ireasons I did not think fit to let them know^ any thing 
of the sloöp I had framed, and which I thought'm 
setting up among them ; for I found, at least at iny 
iirst Coming, such seeds of division among theniy tbat 
I saw plainly, had I set up the sloop, and left it 
amöng them, they would, on every light disgusst, haTÖ 
separated, and gone away from one another, or per- 
haps have turned pirates, and so made the islaad a 
den of thieves, instead of a plantation of sober and 
religious people, as I intended it : nor did I lea^e the 
two pieces of brass cannon that I had on hoard/ or 
the two quarter-deck guns that my nephew took ex« 
traordinary, for the saline reason : I thought it was 
enough to qualify them for a defensive war agaiiisl 
any that should invade them, but not to set them up 
for an offensive war, or to go abroad to ättack othera ; 
which, in the end, would only bring ruin and destruc-* 
tion on them : I reserved the sloop, therefore, and 
the guns, for their service another way, as I shall ob- 
serve in its place. 

' Having now done with the island, T left them all 
in good circumstances and in a flourishing conditioa, 
and went on board my ship again the 6th of May,- 
^aving been about twenty-üve days among them; 
and as they were all resolved to stay on the islaad 
tili I came to remove them, I promised to send them 
farther relief from the Brazils, if I could possibly 
find an opportunity : and, particularly, I promised 
to send them some cattle, such as sheep, hogs» aod 
cows : as to the two cows and calves which I brought 
from England, we had been obliged, by the lengtfa 
of our voyage, to kill them at sea, for want of hay to 
feed.them. . ' 



:OF ROBINSON CRUSOE/ 167. 

r The next day/ giving them a salute of fiye' gonw 
at paiting, we sei sail, and arrived at the bay of All 
Saints, in the Brazils, in about twenty-two days,. 
kieeting nothing remarkable in our passage but this : 
that .about three days after we had sailed; being be- 
calmedy and the current setting streng to the E. N. £. 
running, as it were, into a bay or gulf on the land- 
aide» we were driyen something out of our course, 
aod onee or twiee our, men eried out» Land to the* 
eastward ! but whether it was the continent or islands 
fre could not teil by any means. But the third .day» 
towards evening, the sea smooth, and the weathe^ 
calm» we saw the sea, as it were, covered towards the 
Ißtkd with something very black ; , not being able to 
discover what it was, tili after some time, our chief 
aiate going up the main-shrouds a little way, and 
looking at them with a perspective, cried out it waa 
an army. . I could not imagine what he meant by an 
^nny, and thwarted him a little hastily. . ^* Nay, sir,". 
^ys he, ** don't be angry, for 'tis an army, and a fleet 
too ; for I believe there are a thousand canoes, and 
you may see them paddle along, for they kre coming 
towards us apace." 

I was a little surprised then, indeed, and. so was 
my nephew the captain ; for he had heard such ter-^ 
rible sUMries of them in the island, and having nevet 
been in those seas bßfore, that he could not teil what 
to think of it, but said, two or three times, we should 
^1 be devoured. I must confess, considering we 
Yrere becalmed, and the current set streng towards 
the shore, I liked it the worse ; however, I bade 
them not be afraid, but bring the ship to an anchot 
M aoon as we came so near as to know that we must 
ongage them. 

The weather continued calm, and they came oq 
Space towards us; so I gave orders to come to an 
anchor, and furl all our sails : as for the savages; I 
told them they had oothing to fear but fire» an^ 



16a X.IFK AND ADTBNTVRIS 

iherefore they should get their boats oat^ md fiKtai 
them, one dose by the head, and tlie other by Ifanr 
steriiy and man them both well, and wait the 18000 m 
tbat posture : this I did, that tbe men in Üie boati 
night be ready with sheets and buckets to put oai 
any fire these savages might endeavour tö fix 16 te 
outside of the ship. 

In this posture we lay by for them, and ia a littlif 
while they came up with us; but never was.Kicll • 
horrid sight seen by Christians : thoug h my mate ww 
much mistaken in bis calculation of their number, ynt 
when they came np we reckoned aboot a hundim 
and twenty-six ; some of them had sixteen or M?e»* 
teen men in them, and soikie more, and the leart m 
ör seven* 

When they came nearer to us, they seemed to bü 
Struck with wonder and astonishment, as at a nifilM 
which doubtless they had nerer seen before; nar 
could they, at first, as we afterwards understood/ 
know what to make of us. They came boldlyiip^ 
however, very near to us, and seemed to gö about 19 
row round us ; but we called to our men iii tbe boalf 
not to let them come too near them. This very ordtr 
brought US to an engagement with them, withoat aar 
designing it ; for five or six of the large canoes cama 
so near our long-boat that our men beckoned wich 
their hands to keep them back, which they undeN 
stood very well, and went back, but at their retreat 
about fifty arrows came on board us from those boats, 
and one of our men in the long-boat was very mach 
wounded. However, I called to them not to fire by 
any means; but we handed down some deal boarw 
into the boat, and the carpenter preiently set up a 
kind of fence, like waste boards, to cover them mwl 
the arrows of the savages, if they should shoot again. 

About half-'^n-hour afterwards they all came up ia 
a body astern of us, and so near, as that we could 
•asily discern what they were, thougl^ we could «ol 



Or R0BINMN CR'USaE. Itf0 

latt their desiga ; atnd I easily found they were dorne 
oi my old friends, the same sort of savages that I had 
teeit osed to eng^age with ; and in a sbort time skore 
tkey rowed a litäe farther out to sea» tili they came 
directly broadside with us, and then rowed down 
mraight on t», tili tbey came so near that they couM 
Ittar US speak : ob tkis I ordered all my men to keep 
eleae. Lest they shonld shoot any more arrows, ana 
xftade all our guns ready ; but being so near as to be 
Within hearing» I made Friday go out on the deck, 
and call out aloud to them in bis language^ to know 
What tbey meant ; which accordingly he did. Whethef 
they understood bim or not, that I knew not ; but as 
aooo as he had called to themy six of them, who were 
in the foremost or nighest boat to us, turned thett 
oaaoes from us, and stooping down, showed us their 
naked baeksides, just as if, in English, saving yonr 

preaence, they had bid us kiss : whether this was 

a defiance or challenge we knew not, or whether it was 
done ia mere oontempt, or as a signal to the rest ; bat 
iaunediately Friday cried out they were going to shoot, 
iod, nnhappily for bim, poor fellow, they let fly abont 
three hunared of their arrows, and, to my inexpressiblö 
grief, killed poor Friday, no otber man being in their 
sigkt. The poor fellow was shot with no less than 
tlnee arrdws, and about three more feil very near bim ; 
stich unlucky marksmen they were ! 

I was so enraged at the loss of my old trusty ser* 
Taut and companion, that I immediately ordered five 
gons to be losded with small-shot, and four with great, 
aad ffaye them such a broadside as they had never 
heard in their li^es before, to be sure. They were not 
abore half a cable's length off when we firea ; and our 
gomiers took their aim so well, that three or four of 
their canoes were overset, as we had reason to belieTe, 
by oae shot only. 

The ill manners of tuming up their bare backstdes 
to «a gare us no great offence ; neither did I kocw 



170 LIFE AND ADVBNTUREd 

fbr certain whether that which woold pass for ätf 
greatest contempt among us might be understood ao 
by them or not ; therefore, ;in return, I had only le^ 
solved to have .fired four or five guns at thöm witü 
powder only, which L knew would frighten them mf^ 
ficiently ; but when they shot at us directly» with all 
the fury they were capable of, and especially as thet 
had killed ray poor Friday, whom I so entirely lovied 
and valued, and who, indeed, so well deserred it, I 
thought myself not only justtfiable before God and 
man, but would have been very glad if I could lum 
overset every canoe there, and äowned every one of 
them. ^ 

' I can neither teil how many we killed, nor hovr 
inany we wounded, at this broadside, but sure such m 
fright and hurry never was seen among such a multi- 
tude; there were thirteen or fourteen of their canoet 
split and overset in all, and the men all set a swin^ 
ining : the rest, frightened out of their wits, scamA 
away as fast as they could, taking but little care to 
save those whose boats were split or spoiled with ou 
shot ; so I suppose that many of them were lost ; and 
our men took up one poor fellow swimming for bis 
life, above an hour after they were all gone. 

The small-shot from our cannon must needs kill and 
wound a great many ; but, in short, we never knew 
any thing how it went with them, for they fled so fiisl» 
that in three hours, or thereabouts, we could not aee 
above three or four straggling canoes, nor did we evet 
see the rest any more ; for a breeze of wind springing 
up the same evening, we weighed, and set sail for the 
3razils. 

We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was to 
'sullen that he would neither eat nor speak, and we all 
fancied he would starve himself to death : but I took 
a way to eure him ; for I made them take him and 
turn him into the long-boat, and make him beL'eva 
they would toss him into the sea again, and so leafi 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB.: 171 

bim where they found hhn, if he would not speakc 
oor would that do, but they really did tbrow him intp 
the sea, aud came away from him ; and then he fol- 
Iowed them, for hct swam like a cork, and called to 
them» in his tongue, though they knew not one word 
of what he said : however, at last they took him in 
again, and then he began to be more tractable ; nor 
did I ever design they should drown him. 
. We were now under sail again ; but I was the most 
disconsolate creature alive for want of my man Friday, 
and would have been very glad to hare gone back to 
the Island to have taken one of the rest from thence 
for my occasion ; but it could not be ; so we went on« 
We had one prisoner, as I have said, and it was a 
long time before we could make him understand any 
thing ; but, in time, our men taught him some English» 
and he began to be a little tractable. Afterwards, we 
iaquired what country he came from, but could make 
nothing of what he said ; for his speech was so odd, 
all gutturals, and he spoke in the throat in such a hol- 
low, odd manner,' that we could never form a word 
afiter him ; and we were all of opinion that they might 
speak that language as well if they were gagged as 
otherwise ; nor could we perceive that they had any 
occasion either for teeth, tongue, lips, or palate, but 
fbrmed their words just as a hunting-horn forms a tune, 
with an open throat. He iold us, however, some time 
after, when we had taught him to speak a little £n- 
glish, that they were going with their kings to fight a 
great battle. When he said kings, we asked him how 
Buuiy kings ? He said they were five nation, (we could 
not make him understand the plural s,) and that they 
all joined to go against two nation. We asked him 
what made them come up to us ? He said, *' To makee 
Ib' great wonder look." Here it is to be observed» 
diat all those natiyes, as also those of Africa, when 
they learn English, always add two e's at the end of 
tiie words where we use one; and they place the 



172 LtFB AFD ADTBNTÜRBS 

accent on them, as nakee, takee, and the like ; mA 
vre coaid not break them of it ; nay, I could hardly 
make Friday leaye it off, thoug;h at last he did. 

And now I name the poor fellow once nove, 1 
nnst take my last leaye of htm ; poor honest Fiida^! 
We buried hifn with all the decency and solemni^ 
possible, by patting him into a coffin, and tbrowmg 
him into the sea; and I caused them to fire eleyen 
gnns for him : and so ended the life of the mosC grat^ 
fnl, faithful, honest, and most affectionate servaat, 
that eyer man had. 

We now went away with a £ur wind for Brasil; 
and in about twelye days time we made land, in the 
latitude of fiye degrees south of die line^ being the 
Dorth-eastemmost land of all that part of America. 
We kept on S. by E. in sight of the shore four dayv, 
when we made Cape St Augustine, and in three days 
came to an anchor off the bay of All Saints, tlie oM 
place of my deliyerance, from whence came botfi my 
good and eyil fate. 

Neyer ship came to this port that had less bosinesi 
than I had, and yet it was with great difficulty diat 
we were admitted to hold the least correspondence on 
shore : not my partner himself, who was aliye, and 
made a great figure among them, not my two m^- 
chant-trustees, not the fame of my wonderful pre- 
aeiTation in the island, coüld obtäin me thatfayor; 
but my partner remembering that I had giyen fivs 
hundred moidores to the prior of the monastery of the 
Augustines, and two hundred and seyenty-two to dw 
poor, went to the monastery, and obliged the jprior 
that then was, to go to the goyemor, and get leaTS 
for me personally, with the captain and one more, ha- 
sides eight seamen, to come on shore, and no more; 
and this on condition absolutely capitulated for, tbtl 
we should not offer to land any goods out of the ship, 
or to carry any person away without licence, Th^ 
were so striqt wita us as to landing any goods, that it 



1 



OF BOBIimON CEVSDB. 178 

was with extreme difficulty that I got on share three 
bales of £oglish goods, such ss tine Inroad-clotiiB« 
siuffsy and some linen, which I had brought for a pre« 
■entto my partner. 

He was a very generous» open-hearted man ; moa^ 
Uke me, he came from Utile at iirst : and though kB 
knew not that I had the least design of giving hun anj 
diiagy he sent me on board a present of fresh pro- 
¥uionSy wine, . and sweetmeats, worth above thirty 
JB<Mdores, including some tobacco, and three or foinr 
fine medals of gold : but I was even with him in my 
prasent, which, as I have said, consisted of fine broad- 
clothy English stuffs, lace, and fine Hollands ; also I 
dellyered him about the value of one hundred pounds 
sterlingy in the same goods, for other uses; and I 
obliged him to set up Üie sloop, which I had brought 
with me firom England, as I have said, for the use ef 
iny colony, in order to send the refresfaments I in- 
t^ded to my plantation. 

Accordingly, he got hands, and finished the sloop 
in a very few days, for she was already framed ; and 
I gave the master of her such instructions as that iie 
could not miss the place ; nor did he mias it, as I 
liad an account from my partner afterwards. I got 
him aoon loaded with the small caigo 1 sent them ; 
aad one of our seamen, that had been on shore with 
ne there, offered to go with the sloop and settle th6i^ 
HB my letter to the governor Spaniard to allot him « 
Mfficient quantity of land fo^ a plantation, and giving 
jhim some clothes and tools for his planting-work, 
which he said he understood, having been an old 
|daniter at Maryland, aifd a buccaneer into the bar- 
scain. I encouraged the fellow, by granting all he 
«lesirad ; and, as an addition, I gave him the savage 
jrhom we had taken prisoner of war, to be his slave^ 
and ordered the governor Spaniard 'to give him his 
of every thing he wanted with the Test. 

When we came to fit thisman out, my old partnac 



174 LIFB AND ADVENTURBS 

told me there was a certain yery honest fellow, ä 
JBrazil planter of his acquaintance, wlro had fidlen 
into the displeasure of the church. ** I know not 
what the matter is with him/' says he, ^'bnt on my 
jcönscience I think he is a heretic in his heart, and he 
faas been obliged to conceal himself for fear of the In- 
quisition ;'' that he would be very glad of such an 
opportunity to make his escape, with his wife and 
two daughters; and if I wouid let them go to my 
island, and allot them, a plantation, he would gire 
them a small stock to begin with ; for the officers of 
the Inquisition had seized all his effects and estate, 
and he had nothing left but a little household stoff, 
and two slaves : ** and," adds he, " though I hate hi« 
principles, yet I would not have him fall into their 
hands, for he will be assuredly bumed alive if be 
does." 

I granted this presently, and joined my Cnglishman 
with them : and we concealed the man, and hid wife 
and daughters, on board our ship, tili the sloop put 
out to go to sea ; and then having put all their goods 
on board some time before, we put them on boanl the 
sloop after she was got out of the bay. 

Our Seaman was mightily pleased with this new 
partner ; and their Stocks, indeed, were much alike, 
rieh in tools, and preparations for a farm ; but nothinc 
to begin with, except as above : however, they ctthied 
o^erwith them, which was worth all the rest, some 
materials for plantin g sugar-canes, with some plants 
of canes, which he, I mean the Portugal man, under- 
stood very well. 

Among the rest of the supplies sent to my tenants 
in the Island, I sent them by the sloop three milcb- 
oows and five calves, about twenty-two hoffs among 
them, three sows big with pig, two mares, and a stone- 
horse. For my Spaniards, according to my promüe, 
I engaged three Portugal women to go, and reoom- 
mended it to them to marry them^ and use them kind- 



OF ROBINSON crusob; 17& 

ly, 'I could have procured more womec^bat I re-^ 
membered that the poor persecuted man had two 
daughters, and that there were but five of the Spa- 
Biard8 that wanted ; the rest had wives of their own, 
though in another country. 

. AU this cargo arrivcd safe, and as you may easily 
Mippose, was very welcome to my old inhabitants, 
who were now, with this addition, between sixty and 
•eventy people, beefides. little children, of which there 
were a great many. . I found letters at Loodon from 
them all, by way of Lisbon, when I came back to 
Bngland, of which I shall also take some notice im- 
mediately. 

I have now done with the island, and all manner of 
dbcourse about it ; and whoever reads the rest of my 
memorandums would do well to.turn bis thoughts 
eotirely from it, and expect to read of the follies of 
«D old man, not warned by bis own harms, much less 
by those of other men, to beware of the like; not 
<M>oled by almost forty years miseries and disappoint- 
jBents ; not satisfied with prosperity beyond expecta- 
tion, nor made cautious by afflictions and distress be- 
yond Imitation. 

I had no more business to go to. the East Indies 
than a man at füll liberty has to go to the turnkey at 
Newgate, and desire him to lock him up among the 
prisoners there, and starve him. Had I taken a small 
▼essel from England, and gone directly to the Island ; 
Juul I loaded her, as I did the other vessel, with all 
the necessaries for the plantation, and for my people ; 
taken a patent from the government here to have se- 
cured my property, in subjection only to that of 
JBogland ; had 1 carried over cannon and ammunition, 
•ervants, and people to plant, and taken possession of 
tbe place, fortifiea and strengthened it in the name of 
Sagland, and incfreased it with people, as I might 
MMily have done ; had I then settled myself there, 
Süd aeat tbe ship bapk laden with good rice^ as I 



i76 UFB AND ABtSKTURES 

miglit also faaTe done in six mootfis üme, and ordärdi 
my friends to hare fitted her out again for our sopplj; 
had I done this, and stayed there myself, I had at 
least acted like a man of common aeose : but I was 
possessed with a wandering spiriC, and scomed all ad- 
Tantages : I pleased myself with being the patron of 
the people I placed there, and doing for them in a 
kind of haughty, majestic way, like an old pa^aivhal 
monarch^ providing- for them as if I had been father 
of the whole family, as well as of 4;he planlaticHi : hat 
I never so much as pretended to plant in the name «C 
any government or nation, or to acknowledge aey 
prince, or to call my people subjects to any one ni- 
tion more than another : nay, I never so much as gaye 
the place a name, but left it, as I found it, belongisg 
to nobody, and the people under no discipline or go- 
vemment but my own ; who, though I had inflneooe 
over them as a father and benefactor, had no autho- 
rity or power to act or ccmimand one way or other» 
farther than yoluntary consent moved them to com- 
ply : yet even this, had I stayed there, would have 
done well enough ; but as I rambled from them, and 
came there no more, the last letters I had from' any of 
them were by my partner's means, who afterwards 
sent another sloop to the place, and who sent me 
Word, though I had not the letter tili I got to London, 
several years after it was written, that they went ofi 
but poorly, were malcontent with their long stay there; 
that Will Atkins was dead ; that five of the Spaniards 
were come away ; and though they had'not been mach 
molested by the savages, yet they had had some skir- 
mishes with them; and that they begged of him to 
write to me to think of the promise I had made to 
fetch them away, that they might see their country 
again before they died. 

But I was gone a wildgoose chase, indeed ! and 
they that will have any more of me must be content 
to foUow me into a new variety of foUies, barddiips, 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. tT7 

Ukd wild adventures, wherein the justice of Pitm- 
ience may be duly observed ; and we may see how 
Msily Heaven can gorge us with our own desires, 
make the stropgest of our wishes be our affliction, and 
punish US most severely with those very things which 
we- think it would be our utmost happiness to be al- 
lowed in. Whether I had büsiness or no business, 
»way I went : it is oo time now to enlarge on the 
reason or absurdity of my own conduct : but to come 
U> the history ; I was embarked for the voyage, and 
the Toyage I went. 

I shallonly add a word or two concerning my 
honest popish clergyman ; for iet their opihion of us, 
and all other heretics 'in general, as ihey call us, be 
BS uncharitable as it may, I verily believe this man 
was very sincere, and wished the good of all men : 
yet I believe he was on the reserve in many of his 
expressions, to prevent giving me offence ; for I scarce 
heard him onee call on the blessed Vii^in, or mention 
St. Jago or his guardian angel, though so common 
with the rest of them : however, I say, I had not the 
least doubt of his sincerity and pious intentions on his 
own part; and I am firmly of opinion, if the rest of 
the popish missionaries were like him, they would 
Btrive to visit even the poor Tartars and Laplanders, 
where they have nothing to give them, as well as 
eovet to flock to India, Persiä, China, &c. the most 
wealthyof the heathen countries; for if they expected 
io bring no gains to their church by it, it may well be 
admired how they came to admit the Chinese Coniii- 
cius into the calendar of the Christian saints. But 
ihb by the by. 

A sbip being ready to sail for Lisbon, my pious 

Eriest asked me leave to go thither; being still, as 
e observed, bound never to finish any voyage he 
began. How happy h^d it been for me if I had gone 
with him ! But it was too late now ; all things Heaven 
appointa for the best : had I gone with him, I had 
VOL. II. -Ä 



178 LIFE AND ADVBNTCRES 

never had so many things to be thankful for^ and the 
reader had never heard of the second part of the tra- 
yels and adventures of Robinson Crusoe ; so I must 
here leave exclaiming at myself, and go on with my 
Yoyage. From the Brazils we made directlyover the 
Atlantic Sea to the Cape of Good Hope, and had a 
tolerable good voyage, our course generally south- 
east, now and then a storm, and some contrary winds, 
but my disasters at sea were at an end ; my future 
rubs and cross events were to befall me on shore, that 
it might appear the land was as well prepared to be 
our scourge as the sea. 

Our ship was on a trading TÖyage, and had a su- 
percargo on board, who was to direct all her motions 
after she arrived at the Cape, only being limited to a 
certain number of days for stay, by charter-party, at 
the several ports she was to go to. This was none of 
my business, neither did I meddle with it; my nephew, 
the captainy and the supercargo, adjusting all those 
things between them as they thought fit. 

We stayed at the Cape no longer than was needful 
to take in fresh water, but made the best of our way 
for the coast of Coromandel. We were indeed in- 
formed that a French man-of-war of fifty guns, and 
two large merchant ships, were gone for the Indies; 
and as I knew we were at war with France, I had 
siome apprehensions of them ; but they went their own 
way, and we heard no more of them. 

I shall not pester the reader with a tedious descrip- 
tion of places, Journals of our voyages, yariations of 
the compass, latitudes, trade-winds, &c. ; it is ehough 
to name the ports and places which we touched at, 
and what occurred to us on our passing from one to 
another. We touched first at the island of Mada- 
gascar, where, though the people are fierce and trea- 
cherous, and very well armed with lances and .bows, 
which they use with inconceivable dexterity, yet we 
fared yery well with them awhile; they treated os 




^ ' i 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 179 

very civilly; and, for some trifles which we gave 
them, such as knives, scissors, &c. they brought im 
eleven good fat buUocks of a middling size, which w« 
took in, partly for fresh provisions for our- present 
spending, and the rest to salt for the ship's use. . 

We were obliged to stay here some time after we 
had furnished ourselves with provisions ; and I, who 
was always too curious to look into every nook of 
the World wherever I came, was for going on shore 
as often as I could. It was on the east side of tbe 
Island that we went on shore one evening : and the 
people, who, by the way, are very numerous, came 
thronging about us,.and stood gazing at us at a dis- 
tance; but as we had traded freely with them, and 
had been kindly used, we thought ourselves in no 
danger ; but when we saw the people, we cut thre# 
boughs out of a tree, and stuck them up at a distance 
from US ; which, it seems, is a mark in that country, 
not only of a tnice and friendship, but when it is ac- 
cepted, the other side sets up three poles or boughs^ 
which is ^ signal that they accept the truce too ; but 
then this is a known condition of the truce, that you 
are not to pass beyond their three poles, towards them, 
nor they to come past your three poles, or boughs, 
towards you ; so that you are perfectly secure within 
the three «poles, and all the space between your poles 
and theirs is allowed like a market fot free converse, 
traffic, and commerce. When you go there, you must 
not carry your weapons with you : and if they come 
ioto that Space, they stickjup their javelins and lances 
all at the nrst poles, and come on unarmed ; but if any 
violence is offered them, and the truce thereby broken, 
away they run to the poles, and lay hold of their 
weapons, and the truce is at an end. 

It happened one evening when we went on shore, 
that a greater number of their people came down than, 
usualy but all very friendly and civil ; and they brought 
aeyeral kinds of proyisions, for which we satisfied them 



180 LIFE AND ADVENTUUBS 

with such toys as y^e had ; their womeo also brought 
US milk and roots, and several things very acceptable 
to US, ahd all was quiet; and we made us a little tent 
or hut of some boughs of trees^ and lay on shore all 
night. 

I know not what was the occasion, but I was not 
so well satisfied to lie on shore as the rest ; and the 
boat riding at an anchor about a stone's cast from 
the land, with two men in her to take care of her, I 
made one of th^m come on shore ; and getting some 
boughs of trees to cover us also in the boat, I spread 
the sail on the bottom of the boat, and lay under 
the co?er of the branches of the trees all night in the 
boat. 

About two o'clock in the morning we heard one of 
our men make a terrible noise on the shore, calling 
out, for God's sake, to bring the boat in, and come 
and help them, for they were all like to be murdered ; 
at the same time I heard the iire of iive muskets, 
which was the number of the guns they had, aud that 
three times over ; for, it seems, the natiyes here were 
not so easily frightened with guns as the sayages 
were in America, where I had to do with them. AU 
this while I knew not what was the matter, but rou- 
sing immediately from sleep with the noise, I caused 
the boat to be thrust in, and resolved, with three fu- 
sees we had on board, to land and assist our men. 

We got the boat soon to the shore, but our men 
were in too much haste ; for being come to the shore, 
they plunged into the water, to get to the boat with 
all the expedition they could, being pursued by be- 
tween three and four hundred men. Cur men were 
but nine in all, and only five of them had fiisees with 
them ; the rest had pistols and swords, indeed, but 
they were of small use to them. 

We took up seven of our men, and with difficnlty 
enough too, three of them being very ill wounded ; 
and that which was still worse was, that while we 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 181 

stood in the boat to take our men in, we were in a» 
much danger as they were in on shore ; for they 
poured their arrows in on us so thick, that we were 
glad to barricade the side of the boat up with the 
benches, and two or three loose boards, which, to our 
great satisfaction, we had by mere aecident in the 
boat. And yet, had it been daylight, they are, it 
seems, such exaet marksmen, that if th^ could have 
Seen but the least part of any of us, they would haye 
been sureof üs. , We had, by tbe light of the moon, a 
little sigbt of them, as they stood pelting us from the 
shore with darts and arrows ; and having got ready our 
fire-arms, we gave them a volley, that we could hear, 
by the cries of some of them, had wounded several ; 
bowever, they stood thus in battle-array on the shore 
tili break of day, which we suppose .was that they 
might see the better to take their aim at us. 

In this condition we lay, and could not teil how to 
weigh our anchor or set up our sail, because we mu^t 
peeds stand up in the bont, and they were as sure to hit 
US as we were to hit a bird in a tree with small shot* 
We made signals of distress to the ship, which though 
she rode a league off, yet my nephew^ the captain, 
hearing our iiring, and by glasses perceiving the pos- 
ture we lay in, and that we fired towards the shore, 
pretty well understood us ; and weighing anchor with 
fiU speed, he stood as near the shore as he durst with 
the ship, and then sent another boat, with ten hands in 
her, to assist us : but we called to them not to como 
too near, telling them what condition we were in ; 
however they stood in near to us, and one of the men 
taking the end of a tow-line in his band, and keeping 
one boat between him and the enemy, so that they 
could not perfecÜy see him» swam on board us» and 
made fast the line to the boat ; on which we slipped 
out a little cable, and leaving our anchor behind, they 
towed U8 out of reach of the arrows ; we all the while 
}ying ciose behind the barricado we had made^ 



182 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

As soon as we were got from between the ship anä 
the shore, that we could lay her side to the shore, she 
ran along just by them, and poured in a broadside 
among them loaded with pieces of iron and lead, tsmaW 
»bullets, aiid such stuff, besides the great shot^ which 
made a terrible haToc among them. 

When we were got on board and out of danger, w« 
had time to examine into the occasion of this fray; 
and, indeed, our supercargo, who had been often in 
those parts, put me on it ; for he said he was sure the 
itihabitants would not have touched us after we bad 
made a truce, if we had not done something to proYok^ 
them to it. At length it came out that an old womaii, 
who had come to sei] us some milk, had broüght it 
within our poles^ and a young woman with her, who 
also brought some roots or herbs ; and while the old 
woman (whether she was mother to the young womaft 
or no they could not teil) was selling us the milk, one 
of our men offered some rudeness to the wench that 
%ras with her, at which the old woman made a great 
Hoise : however, the Seaman would not quit bis prize, 
but carried her out of the old woman's sight among 
the trees, it being almost dark : the old woman went 
away without her, and , as we may suppose, made |in 
outcry among the people she came from ; who, on no- 
tice, raised this great army on us in three or fonr 
hours ; and it was great odds but we had all been 
destroyed. 

One of our men was killed with a lance thrown at 
him just at the beginning of the attack, as he sallied 
out of the tent they had made : the rest came off free, 
all but the fellow who was the occasion of all the mis- 
dhief, who paid dear enough for his black mistress, for 
we could not hear what became of him a great while. 
We lay on the shore two days after, thöugh the wind 
presented, and made sign als for him, and made our 
boat sail up shore and down shore sereral leagues, but 
in yain/ so we were obliged to give him over ; and 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 183 

if he alone had suffered for it, the loss had been 
less. 

I could not satisfy myself, however^ without ven- 
turmg on shore once more, to try if I could learn any 
thing o£ him or them : it i^as the third night after the 
action that I had a great mind to learn > if I could by 
any means, what mischief we had done, and how the 
game stood on the Indians' side. I was careful to do 
it in the dark, lest we should be attacked again ; but 
I ought, indeed, to haye been sure that the nien I went 
with had been under my command, before I. engaged 
io a thing so hazardous and mischievous as I was 
brought into by it, without design. 

We took twenty as stout feljiows with us as any in 
the ship, besides the supercargo and myself, and we 
landed two hours before midnight, at the same place 
where the Indians stood drawn up in the evening be- 
fore: I landed here, because my design, as I baye 
aaid, was chiefly to see if they bad quitted the field, 
ai^d if they had left any marks behind them of the 
mischief we had done them ; and I thought if we could 
snrprise one or two of them, perhaps we might get our 
man again, by way of exchange. 

We landed without any noise, and divided our men 
into two bodies, whereof the boatswain commanded 
one, and I the other. We neither saw nor heard any 
body stir when we landed : and we marched up, one 
body at a distance from the other, to the place ; but 
at first could see nothing, it being very dark ; tili by 
and by our boatswain, who led the iirst party, stum- 
bled and feil over a dead body. This made them halt 
awhile ; for knowing by the circumstances that they 
were at the place where the Indians had stood, they 
waited for my coming up there. We concluded to 
halt tili the moon began to rise, whlch we knew would 
be in less than an hour, when we could easily discern 
the hayoc we had made among them. We told thirty* 
two bodies on the ground, whereof two were not quite 



184 LIFB AND ADVENTURRS 

dead ; some had an arm, and some a leg ahot off, ind 
one bis head ; those that were wounded, we suppose, 
they had carried away. 

When we had made, as I thought, a füll discovery 
of all we could eome to the knowledge of, I was 
for going on board again ; but the boatswain and bis 
party sent me word that they were resolyed to make 
a yisit to the Indian town, where these dogs, as they 
called them, dwelt, and asked me to go along with 
them ; and if they could find them, as they still fan^ 
cied they should, they did not doubt of gettinga good 
booty ; and it might be they might find Tom Jefiry 
there : that was the man 's name we had lost. 

Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well 
enough what answer to have given them ; for I should 
have commanded them instantly on board, knowing 
it was not a hazard üt for us to run, who had a ship, 
and ship-loading in our charge, and a voyage to maKe 
which depended very much on the lives of the men ; 
but as they sent me word they were resolyed to go, 
and only asked me and my Company to go along with 
them, I positively refused it, and rose up (for I was 
sitting on the ground) in order to go to the boat. One 
or two of the men began to importune me to go ; 
and when I refused, began to grumble, and say that 
they were not under my command, and they would 
go. ** Come, Jack/' says one of the men, •' will you 
go with me ? I'll go for one/' Jack said he would, 
— and then another, — and, in a word, they all left me 
but one, whom I persuaded to stay, and a boy left in 
the boat. 80 the supercargo and I, with the third 
man, went back to the boat, where we told them'we 
would stay for them, and take care to take in as 
roany of them as should be left ; for I told them it 
was a mad thing they were going about, and supposed 
most of them would run the fate of Tom Jeffry. 

They told me, like seamen, they would Warrant 
it they would come off again, and they would take 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. IM 

care, Ac. ;' so away they went. I entreated them fa 
oonsider the ship and tbe yoyage, that their lives were 
not their own, and that they were iotrusted with the 
Yoyage, in some ineasure ; that if they miscarried, the 
ship might be lost for want of their help, and that 
they could not answer for it to God or man. But I 
might as well have talked to the mainmast of the 
ship ; they were mad on their journey, only they 
gave me good words, and begged I would not be 
angry; that they did not doubt but they would be 
back again in about au hour at farthest ; for the In-^ 
dian town, they said, was not above half a mile ofiv 
though they found it above two miles before they got 
toit. 

Well, they all went away ; and though the attempl 
was desperate» and such as none but madmen would 
have gone about, yet, to give them their due, they 
weot about it as warily as boldly: they were gal-* 
lantly armed, for they had every man a fusee or mus« 
ket» a bayonet, and a pistol ; some of them had broad 
cutlasses, some of them had hangers, and the böat-i 
swain and two more had pole-axes ; besides all which, 
they had among them thirte^n hand-grenados : bolder 
fellows, and better provided, never went about any 
wicked work in the world. 

When they went out, their chief design was plun- 
der» and they were in mighty hopesvof finding gold 
there ; but a circumstance, which none of them were 
aware of, set them on üre with revenge, and made 
devils of them all* When they came to the few In- 
dian houses which they thought had been the town, 
which was not above half a mile off, they were under 
a great disappointment, for there were not above 
twelve or thirteen houses ; and where the town was, 
or how big, they knew not, They consulted, there^ 
fore, wkat to do, and were some time before they 
eoold resolve; for if they feil on these, they musi 
eol all their throats, and it was ten to one but soniA 



186 LIFB AND ADVENTÜRES 

of them might escape, it being in the night, though 
the moon was up ; and if one escaped, he would nui 
and raise all the town, so they should haye a whok 
army on them : again, on the other hand, if they went 
f^way änd left those untouched, (for the people weie 
all asleep) they could not teil which way to Look for 
the town : however, the last was the best advice ; so 
they resolved to leave them, and look for the town as 
well as they could. They went on a little way, and 
found a cow tied to a tree ; this, they presently con- 
cluded, would be a good guide to them; for, thej 
Said, the cow certainly belonged to the town befbie 
them, or the town behind them ; and if they untied 
her, they should see which way she went ; if she went 
back they had notbing to say to her ; but, if she went 
forward, they would foUow her : so they cut the cotd, 
which was made of twisted flags, and the cow went 
on before them, directly to the town ; which» as they 
reported, consisted of above two hundred houses of 
huts, and in some of these.they found several fitmilies 
living together. 

Here they found all in silence, as profoundly se- 
cure as sleep could make them : and, first, they called 
another Council, to consider what they had to do; 
and, in a word, they resolved to divido themselves 
into three bodies, and to set three houses on fire in 
three parts of the town ; and as the men came out, 
to seize them and bind them, (if any resisted, they 
need not be asked what to do then,) and so to search 
the rest of the houses for plunder : but they resolved 
to march silently first through the town, and see what 
dimensions it was of, and if they might venture on it 
or no. 

They did so, and desperately resolved tbat they 
would venture on them: but while they were ani- 
mating one another to the work, three oi them, who 
were a little before the rest, called out aloud to them, 
and told them that they had found Tom Jeffiry : they 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 187 

all ran up to the place, where they found the poor 
fellow hanging up naked by one arm, aod bis tbroat 
cnt. There was an Indian house just by tbe tree; 
where they found sixteen or seyenteen o£ the prin- 
cipal Indians, who had been concerned in the fhiy 
With US before, and two or three of them wounded 
with our shot ; and our men found they were awake, 
and talking one to another in that house, but knew 
not their number. 

The sight of their. poor mangled comrade so en- 
raged them, as before, that they swore to one another 
theywould be reyenged, and that not an Indian that 
ttane into their hands should have any quarter ; and 
U> work they went immediately, and yet not so madly 
MB might be expected from the rage and fury they 
were in. Their first care was to get something that 
would soon take iire, but after a little search, they 
found that would be to no purpose ; for most of the 
houses were low, and thatched with flags and rushes, 
of which the country is füll ; so they presently made 
Same wild-fire, as we call it, by wetting a little powdet 
in the- palm of their hands ; and in a quarter of an 
liour they set the town on iire in four or iive places; 
and particukurly that house where the Indians were 
not gone to bed. 

As soon as the iire began to blaze, the poor fright- 
ened creatures began to rush out to save their lives, 
bat met with their fate in the attempt ; and especially 
at the door, where they drove them back, the boat- 
ftwain himself killing one or two with hispole-axe; 
the house being large, and many in it, he dia not care 
lo go in, but called for a hand-grenado, and threw it 
among them, which at first frightened them, but, when 
it burst, made such havoc -among them, that they 
eried out in a hideoUs manner. In short, most of the 
ladians who were in the open part of the house were 
killed or hurt with the grenado, except two or three 
mme who pressed to the door, which the boatswaia 



188 LIFE AND ADVENTURBS 

and two more kept» with their buyonets on tfae 
muzzles of their pieces, and despatched all that came 
in their way : but there was another apartment in the 
house, where the prince or king» or whatever he was, 
and seyeral others, were ; and these were kept in tili 
the house» which was by this time all in a light flame» 
feil in on them, and they were smotbered together. 

All this while they fired not a gun, because they 
would not waken the people faster than theyoouU 
master them ;■ but the fire began to waken them fast 
enough, and our fellows were glad to keep a little 
together in bodies ; for the fire grew so raging, all the 
houses being made of light combustible stuff, that ther 
could hardly bear the street between them ; and their 
business was to foUow the fire, for the surer execu- 
tion : as fast as the fire either forced the people out of 
those houses which were burning, or frightened them 
out of otherSy our people were ready at their doon 
to knock them on the head, still calling and hallooiag 
one to another' to remember Tom Jeffry. 
' While this was doing, I must confess I was very 
uneasy, and especially when I saw the fiames of the 
town, which, it being night, seemed to be just by me. 
My nephew, the captain, who was roused by liis men, 
seeing such a fire, was very uneasy, not knowing what 
the matter was, or what uanger I was in, especially 
hearing the guns too, for by this time they began to 
use their fire-arms ; a thousand^thoughts oppressed bis 
mind concerning me and the supercargo, what would 
becomo of us ; and, at last, though he could ill spare 
any more men, yet not knowing what exigence we 
raight be in, he takes another boat, and with thirteen 
men and himself comes on shore to me. 

II e was surprised to see me and the supercargo in 
the boat with no more than two men ; and thou^ be 
was glad that we were well, yet he was in the same 
impatience with us to know what was doing ; for the 
noise continued, and the flame increased ; in ahort, it 



"^F ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1()9 

was next to an impossibility for any man in the world 
to restrain their curiosity to know what had happened, 
or their concern for the safety of the men : in a word» 
the captain told me he would ga and help his men» let 
what would come. I argued with bim, as I did before 
with the men, the safety of the ship, tbe danger of the 
▼oyage, the interest of the owners and mercbants, &c. 
and told him I and the two men would go, and only 
aee if we could at a distance learn what was like to be 
the event, and come back and teil him. It was all one 
to talk to my nephew, as it was to talk to the rest be- 
fore ; he would go, he said ; and he only wished he 
liad left but ten men in the ship, for he could not think 
of having his men lost for want of help ; he had rather 
lose- the ship, the Yoyage, and his life and all ; and 
away he went. 

■ I was no more able to stay behind now than I was' 
to persuade them not to go ; so, in short, the captain 
ordered two men to row back the pinnace, and fetch 
twelve men more, leaving the long-boat at an anchor ; 
and that when they came back, six men should keep 
the two boats, and six more come after us : so that he 
left only sixteen men in the ship ; for the whole ship's 
Company consisted of sixty-fiye men, whereof two 
were lost in the late quarrel which brought this mis- 
ehief on. 

' Being now on the march, you may be sure we feit 
little of the ground we trod on ; and being guided by 
the fire, we kept no path, but went directly to the 
place of the flame. If the noise of the guns was sur- 
prising to us before, the cries of the poor people were 
now quite of another nature, and filled us with horror. 
I must confess I was never at the sacking a city, or at 
the taking a town by storm. I had heard of Glivec 
Cromwell taking Drogheda, in Ireland, and killing 
tnao, woman, and child ; and I had read of Count 
Tilly sacking the city of Magdeburg, and cutting the 
throats of twenty-two thousand of both- sexes ; but L 



100 LIFE AND ADVENTURXS 

never had an idea of the thing itself before, ner is it 
possible to describe it, or the horror that was on our 
minds at hearing it. However, we went on, and at 
length came to the town, though there was no enttr- 
ing the streets of it for the fire. The first object we 
met with was the ruins of a hut or house, or rather the 
ashes of it, for the house was consumed : and just he* 
fore it, piain now to be seen by the light of the fire, 
lay four men and three women killed, and, as we 
thought, one or two more lay in the heap among the 
fire ; in short, there were such instances of rage alto- 
gether barbarous, and of a fury something beyo^id what 
was human, that we thought it impossible our mtm 
eould be guilty of it ; or if they were the authors of it, 
we thought they ought to be every one of them put to 
the worst of deaths. But this was not all : we saw tlit 
fire increased forward, and the ery went on just as tbe 
fire went on ; so that we were in the utmost confiisioii. 
We advanced a little way farther ; and, behold, to 
our astonishment, three naked women, and crying in 
a most dreadful manner, came flying as if they hal 
wings, and after them sixteen or seventeen men, nä- 
tives, in the same terror and consternation, with three 
of our English butchers in the rear ; who, when they 
could not overtake them, fired in among them, aad 
one that was killed by their shot feil down in our 
sight. When the rest saw us, believing us to be their 
enemies, and that we would murder them as well as 
those that pursued them, they set up a most dreadful 
shriek, especially the women, and two of them feil 
down, as if already dead, with the fright. 

My very soul shrunk within me, and my blood rai 
chill in my veins, when I saw this : and I believe, had 
the three English sailors that pursued them come oa, 
I had made our men kill them all : however, we took 
some ways to let the poor flying creatures know that 
we would not hurt them ; and immediately they came 
up to US, and kneeling down, with their hands lifted 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 101 

up» made piteous lamentation to us to save them, which 
we let them know we would ; whereon they crept all 
together in a huddle close behind us, as for protection. 
I left my men drawn up together, and cbarging them 
to hurt nobody, but, if possible, to get at some of oiir 
people, and see what devil it was possessed them, and 
whcU they intended to do, and to command them off; 
asmiiing them that if they stayed tili daylight, they 
would ha?e a hundred tbousand men about their ears : 
I 0ay, I left them, and went among those flying people» 
takiiig only two of our men with me ; and there was 
indeed a piteous spectaele among them ; some of them 
bad their feet terribly burned, with trampling and run- 
ning through the fire, others their hand^ burned ; one 
of the women had fallen down in tlie fire, and was 
veiy mach burned before she could get out again ; 
and two' er three of the men had cuts in their backe 
and Ihighs, from our men pursuing ; and another was 
shot through the body, and died while I was there. 

I would fain-have learned what the occasion of all 
this was» but I could not understand one word they 
said ; thoofk, by signs, I perceived some of them knew 
not what was the occasion themselyes. I was so ter- 
rified in my thoughts at this outrageous 'attempt, that 
I could not stay there, but went back to my own men, 
and resolved to go into the middle of the town, through 
the fire, or whatever might be in the way, and put an 
ond to it, cost what it would : accordingly, as 1 came 
back to mymen, I told them my resolution, and com- 
manded them to follow me ; when at the very mo- 
ment came four of our men, with the boatswain at their 
head, roving over heaps of bodies they had killed, all 
COYcred with blood and dust, as if they wanted more 
people to massacre, when our men hallooed to them as 
loaa as they could halloo ; and with much ado one of 
thflm made them hear, so that they knew who we were, 
aad came up to us. 

Ab soon as the boatswain saw us, he set up a halloo 



102 LIFB AND ADVENTURE8 

like a shöut of triumph, for having, as he thought, 
more help come; and wiüiout waiting to Jbear me, 
5' Ctiptain," says he, ** noble captaia ! I am glad you 
are come ; we have not half done yet : villanous hell* 
hound dogs ! I'U kill as/nany of them as poor Tom 
has hairs on his head : we have sworn to spare none 
of them ; we'U root out the yety nation of them ffon 
the earth !" and thus he ^an on, out of breath too 
with action, and would not give us leave to speak a 
Word. 

At last, raising my voiee, tbat I might silence bim 
a littlje, *' Barbarous dog f" said I, '* wfaat are you 
doing ? I won't have one creature touched more, on 
pain of death : I charge you, on your life, to stop your 
hands, and stand still here, or you are a dead man tbis 
minute." — " Why, sir," says he, ** do you know 
what you do, or what they have done ? if you want a 
reason for what we have done, come hither;" and 
with that he showed me the poor fellow hanging, with 
his throat cut. 

I confess I was urged then myself, and at anotber 
time would have been forward enough; but I thougbt 
they had carried their rage too far, and remembered 
Jacob's words to his sons Simeon and Levi — **Cursed 
be their anger, for it was fierce ; and their wrath, for 
it was cruel." But I had now a new task on my 
hands : for when the men I carried with me saw the 
sight, as I had done, I had as much to do to re- 
strain them as I should have had with the others; 
nay, my nephew himself feil in with them, and told 
me, in their hearing, that he was only concerned for 
fear of the men being overpowered ; and as to the 
people, he thought not one of them ought to live; 
for they had all glutted themselves with the murder 
of the poor man, and that they ought to be used like 
murderers : on these words, away ran eight of my 
men', with the boatswain and his crew, to complete 
their bloody work ; and I, seeing it quite out ot my 



OF ROBINSON CRVSOE. 193 

power to restrain them, came away pensive and sad ; 
Ibr I could not bear the sight, much less the borrible 
noise and cries of the poor wretches that feil into their 
hands^ 

I got nobody to come back with me but the super- 
cargo and two men, and with these walked back to 
*the boat. It was "a very great piece of folly in me, I 
confess, to venture back as it were alone ; for as it 
began now to be almost day, and the alarm had run 
over the country, there stood abput forty men, armed 
with lances and bows, at the little place where the 
twelve or thirteen houses stood, mentioned before; 
but by accident I missed the place, and came directly 
to the sea-side ; and by the time I got to the sea- 
side it was broad day : immediately I took the pin- 
nace and went on board, and sent her back to assist 
the men in what might happen. 

I observed, about the time that I came to the boat- 
side, that the fire was pretty well out, and the noise 
abated ; but in about half an hour after I got on 
board I heard a volley of our men 's fire-arms, and 
saw a great smoke : this, as I understood afterwards, 
was our men falling on the men who, as I said, stood 
at tbe few houses on the way, of whom they killed 
sixteen or seventeen, and set all the houses on fire, 
but did not meddle with the women or children. 

By the time the men got to the shore again with the 
pinnacc, our men began to appear ; they came drop- 
ping in, not in two bodies as they went, but straggling 
kere and there in such a manner, that a small force of 
resolute men might have cut them all off. But the 
dread of them was on the whole country ; and the 
men were surprised, and so frightened, that 1 believe 
a hundred of them would have fled at the sight of but 
five of our men ; nor in all this terrible action was 
ibere a man that made any considerable defence ; they 
W^re so surprised between the terror of the fire and 
tbe fttdden attack of our men in the dark, that they 

VOL. II» 'Ä 



194 LIFE ANB ADVENTURK8' 

knew not which wäy to turn themselves ; for if they 
fled one way they were met by one party, if back 
again by another ; so tbat they were every where 
knocked down : nor did any of our men receiye the 
least hurt, except one that sprained bis foot, and an- 
other that had one of bis bands burned. 

I was very angry witb my nephew, the <;aptain, 
and, indeed, witb all the men, in my mind, but with 
bim in partieular, as well for bis acting so out of his 
duty, as Commander of the ship, and baving tbe 
Charge of the voyage on bim, as in bis prompting, 
ratber than cooling, tb^ rage of bis blind men, in so 
bloody and cruel an enterprise. My nephew answered 
me very respectfully, but told me that wben he saw 
the body of tbe poor Seaman whom they had mur* 
dered in so cruel and barbaraus a manner, he was not 
master of himself, neitber could he govern bis passion : 
be owned he should not have done so, as he was Com- 
mander of the ship ; but as he was a man, and nature 
moyed bim, he could not bear it. As for the rest of 
tbe men, they were not subject to me at all, and they 
knew it well enougb ; so they took no notice of my 
dislike. 

The next day we set sail, so we neyer heard any 
more of it. Our men differed in the account of tbe 
number they had killed ; but according to the best of 
their accounts, put all together, they killed or de- 
stroyed about one bundred and iifty people, men, 
women, and children, and left not a house standing in 
tbe town. As for the poor fellow Tom Jeffry, as he 
was quite dead, (for bis throat was so cut that bb 
head was half off) it would do bim no service to bring 
bim away ; so they only took bim down from tbe tree, 
where he was hanging by one band. 

However just our men thought tbis action, I was 
against them in it, and I always, after that time, told 
them God would blast the voyage; for I looked on 
all tbe blood they shed tbat night to be murder in 



OF ROBINSON VRV80W. 195 

ihem : for though it is true that they had killed Tom 
Jeffiry, yet J«ffry was the aggressor, had broken the 
truce, aad had violated or debauched a young woman 
of theirs, who came down to them innocently, and on 
the faith of the public capitulation. 

The boatswain defended this quarrel when we were 
afterwards on board* He said it was true that we 
seemed to break the truce, but really had not ; and 
that the war was begun the night before by the na- 
tives themselves, who had shot at us, and* killed one of 
our men without any just provocation ; so that as we 
were in a capacity to fight them now, we might also 
be in a capacity to do ourselyes justice on them in an 
extraordinary manner ; that though the poor man had 
taken a little liberty with the wench, he ought not 
to haye been murdered, and that in such a villanous 
mann er ; and that they did nothing but what was just, 
and what the laws of God allowed to be done to mur* 
derers. 

One would think this should have been enough to 
have warned us against going on shore amongst hea- 
thens and barbarians: but it is impossible to make 
mankind wise but at their own expense ; and their ex» 
perience seems to be always of most use to them when 
it is dearest bought. 

We were now bound to the gulf of Persia, and 
firom thence to the coast of Coromandel, only to toucb 
at Surat : but the chief of the supercargo's design lay 
at the bay of Bengal ; where if he missed bis business 
outward-bound, he was to go up to China, and retum 
to the coast as he came home. 

The first disaster that befell us was in the gulf of 
Persia, where five of our men venturihg on shore on 
the Arabian side of the gulf, were surrounded by the 
Arabians, and either all killed or carried away into 
slavery ; the rest of the boat's crew were not able to 
rescue them, and had but just time to get off their 
boat. I began to upbraid Üxem with the just retribur 



106 LIFB AND ADV£NTtTRES 

tion of Heaven in this case ; but the boatswain very 
warmly told me, he thought I went farther in my cen- 
ftures than I could sbow any warränt for in Scripture ; 
and referred to Luke xiii. 4. where our Saviour inti- 
mates that those men on wbom the tower of Siloam 
feil were not sinners abore all the Galileans ; but that 
which put me to silence in the case was, that not one 
of these fiye men who were now lost wereof those who 
went on shore to the massacre of Mada^ascar, so I ai- 
ways called it, though our men could not bear to hear 
the Word massacre with any patience. 

But my frequent preaching to them on tbe subject 
had worse consequences than I expected ; and the 
boatswain, who had been the head of the attempt, 
came up boldly to me one time, and told me he found 
that I brought that affair continually on the stage ; 
that I made unjust reflections on it, and had used the 
men yery ill on thataccount, and himseif in particular ; 
that as I was but a passenger, and had no command in the 
ship, or concern in the voyage, they were not obliged 
to bear it; that they did not know but I might have 
some ill design in my head, and perhaps to call them 
to an account for it when they came to England ; and 
that, therefore, unless I would resolve to have done 
with it, and also not to concern myself any farther 
with him, or any of bis affairs, he would leave the 
ship ; for he did not think it was safe to sail with me 
among them. 

I heard him patiently enough tili he had done, and 
then told him, that I confessed I had all along oppo- 
sed the massacre of Madagascar, and that I had,on all 
occasions, spoken my mind freely about it, though not 
more on him than any of the rest ; that as to having 
no command in the ship, that was true ; nor did I 
exercise any authority, only took the liberty of speak- 
ing my mind in things which publicly concerned us all ; 
and what concern I had in the voyage was none of his 
business ; that I was a considerable owner in the ship; 



QF EQBINSON CBIUSOB. 107 

in that claim, I conceived I had a right to speak even 
farther than I had done, and would not be accountable 
to him or any one eise ; and began to be a iittle warm 
with him. He made but Iittle reply to me at that 
time, and I thought the afTair had been over. We 
were at this time in the road to Bengai ; and being 
willing to see the place, I went on shore with the su- 
percargo, in the ship's boat, to divert myself ; and 
towards evening was preparing to go on board, when 
one of the men came to me, and told me he would not 
have me trouble myself to come down to the boat, for 
they had Orders not to carry me on board any more. 
Any one may guess what a surprise I was in at so 
insolent a message ; and I asked the man who bade 
him deliyer that message to me ? He told me, the 
cockswain. I said no more to the fellow, but bade 
him let them know he had delivered his message, and 
that l had given him no answer to it. 

I inimediately went and found out the supercargo, 
and told him the story ; adding, what I presently 
foresaw, that there would be a mutiny in the ship ; 
and entreated him to go immediately on board the 
ship in an Indian boat, and acquaint the captain of 
it. But I might have spared this intelligence, for 
before I had spoken to him on shore the matter was 
efTected on board. The boatswain, the gunner, the 
carpenter, and all the inferior officers, sls soon as I 
was gone off in the boat, came up, and desired to 
speak with the captain ; and there the boatswain, 
making a long harangue, and repeating all he had 
said to me, told the captain, in a few words, that as 
I was now gone peaceably on shore, they were loath 
to use any violence with me, which, if I had not 
gone on shore, they would otherwise have done, to 
oblige me to have gone ; they therefore thought üt 
to teil him, that as they shipped themselves to serve 
in the ship under his command, they would perform 
it well aod faithfully ; but if I would not quit .the 



198 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ship, or the captain oblige me to quit it, they Mrould 
all leave the ship, and sail no farther with him ; and 
at that Word all, he turned his face toward the main- 
mast, which was, it seems, the signal agreed on be- 
tween them, at which all the seamen, being got to- 
gether, there cried out, ** One and all ! one and all !" 

My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, and 
of great presence of mind; and though he was snr- 
prised, you may be sure, at the thing, yet he told 
them calmly that he would consider of the matter; 
but that he could do nothing in it tili he had spoken 
to me about it. He used some arguments with them 
to show them the unreasonableness and injustice of 
the thing: but it was all in vain; they swore, and 
shook hands round before his face, that they would 
all go on shore, unless he would engage to them not 
to suffer me to come any more on board the ship. 

This was a hard articie on him, who knew his Obli- 
gation to me, and did not know how I might take it : 
so he began to talk smartly to them ; told them that 
I was a very considerable owner of the ship, and that, 
in justice, he could not put rae out of my own house; 
that this was next door to serving me as the famous 
pirate Kidd had done, who made a mutiny in the ship, 
set the captain on shore on an uninhabited island, and 
ran away with the ship ; that let them ge into what 
ship they would, if ever they came to England again, 
it would cost them very dear ; that the ship was mine, 
and that he could not put me out of it ; and that he 
would rather lose the ship and the voyage too than 
disoblige me so much ; so they might do as they 
pleased : however, he would go on shore and talk 
with me, and invited the boatswain to go with him, 
and perhaps they might accommodate the matter with 
me. But they all rejected the proposal, and said 
they would have nothing to do with me any more; 
and if I came on board, they would all go on shore. 
" Well," said the captain, ** if you are all of this 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 199 

mind, let me go on shore and talk with him." So 
away he came to me with this account, a little after 
the message had been brought to me from the cock- 
svrain. 

I was very glad to see my nephew, I must confess ; 
for I was Dot without apprehensions that they would 
confine him by violence, set sali, and run away with 
the ship; and then I had been stripped naked in a 
remote country, haying nothing to help myself; in 
short, I had been in a worse case than when I was 
alone in the island. But they had not come to that 
length, it seems, to my satisfaction ; and when my 
nephew told me what they had said to him, and how 
they had sworn and shook hands that they would, 
one and all, leave the ship if I was suffered to come 
on board, I told him he should not be concerned at 
it at all, for I would stay on shore : I oniy desired he 
would take care and send me all my necessary things 
on shore, and leave me a sufficient sum ot* money, and 
I would find my way to England as well as I could. 

l'his was a heayy piece of news to my nephew, but 
there was no way to help it but to comply ; so, in 
short, he went on board the ship again, and satisfied 
the men that his uncle had yielded to their importu- 
nity, and had sent for his goods from on board the 
ship ; so that the matter was oyer in a few hours, the 
men returned to their duty, and I began to consider 
what course I should steer. 

I was now alone in the most remote part of the 
World, as I think I may call it, for I was near three 
thousand leagues by sea farther off from England than 
I was at my island ; only, it is true, I might travel 
here by land over the great Mogul's country to Surat, 
might go from thence to BsLSsora by sea, up the gulf 
of Persia, and take the way of the caravans, over the 
Desert of Arabia, to Aleppo and Scanderoon ; from 
thence by sea again to Italy, and so over-land into 



200 LIFE AND ADVENTURE6 

France ; and this put together might at least be a fuU 
(Uameter of the globe, or more. 

I had another way before me, which was to wak 
for some English ships, which were Coming to Bengal 
froin Achin, on the island of Sumatra, and gett pas- 
sage on board them for England. But as I came 
hither without any concern with the English East 
India Company, so it would be difficult to go from 
hence without their licence, unless with great favour 
of the captains of the ships, or the Company's factors; 
and to both I was an utter stranger. 

Here I had the mortification to see the ship set sail 
without me ; a treatment I think a man in my cifcum^ 
stances scarce ever met with, except from pirates nu»- 
ning away with a ^ip, and setting those that would 
not agree with their villany on shore. Indeed- thb 
was next door to it, both way^; however, my nephew 
left me two servants, or rather one companion and one 
servant ; the first was clerk to the purser, whom he 
engaged to go with me, and the other was bis owa. 
servant. I took me also a good lodging in the house 
of an Engiishwoman, where several merchants lodged, 
some French, two Italians, or rather Jews, and one 
Englisbman : here I was handsomely enough enter- 
tained ; and that I might not be said to run rashly on 
any thing, I stayed here aboye nine months consider- 
ing what course to take, and how to manage myself. 
I had some English goods with me of value, and a 
considerable sum of money; my nephew furnishing 
me with a thousand pieces of eight, and a ietter of 
credit for more, if I had occasion, that I might not be 
straitened, whatever might happen. 

I quickly disposed of my goods to advantage ; and, 
as I originally intended, I bought here some very 
good diamonds, which, of all other things, were the 
most proper for me, in my present circumstances, be- 
cause 1 could always carry my whole estate about me. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 201 

After a long stay here, and many proposals made 
for my return to England, but none falling out to my 
mind, tbe English merchant who lodged with me, and 
whom I had contracted an intimate acquaintance with, 
came to me one morning : '' Countryman," says he, 
** I have a project to communicate to you, which, as 
it suits with my thoughts, may, for aught I know, suit 
with yours also, when you shall have thoroughly con» 
sidered it. Here we are posted, you by accident> and 
I by my own choice, in a part of the world very rer 
mote from our own country; but it is in a country 
where, by us who understand trade and business, a 
great deal of money is to be got. If you will put one 
thousand pounds to my one thousand pounds, we will 
hire a ship here, the first we can get to our minds ; 
you shall be captain, I'U be merchant, and we'U go a 
trading voyage to China : for what should we stand 
still for ? The whole world is in a motion, roUing round 
and round ; all the creatures of God, heavenly bodies 
and earthly, are busy a^d diligent ; why should we be 
idle ? There are no drones in the world but men ; why 
should we be of that number ? " 

I liked this proposal very well ; and the more be- 
cause it seemed to be expressed with so much good 
will, and in so friendly a manner. I will not say but 
that I might, by my loose, unhinged circumstances, 
be the fitter to embrace a proposal for trade, or indeed 
any thing eise ; whereas, otherwise, trade was none of 
my element. However, I might perhaps say with 
some truth, that if trade was not my element, rambling 
was ; and no proposal for seeing any part of the world, 
which I had never seen before, could possibly come 
amiss to me. 

It was, however, some time before we could get a 
ship to our minds, and when we had got a vessel, it 
was not easy to get English sailors ; that is to say, so 
matiy as were necessary to govern the yoyage and ma^ 
nage the sailors which we should pick up there. After 



202 LIFE AND ADVENTURBS 

some time we got a mate, a boatswain, and a guDHer, 
English; a Dutch carpenter, and three &>reniast-men. 
With these we found we could do well enough, haring 
Indian seamen, such as they were, to make up. 

There are so many travellers who have wrote the 
history of their voyages and travels this way, that it 
would be very little diversion to any body to givc a 
long account of the places we went to, and the people 
who inhabit there; these things I leave to otbers, and 
refer the reader to those Journals and travels of £d- 
glishmen, of whieh many I find are published, and 
more promised every day ; it is enough for me to teil 
you that we made this yoyage to Achin , in the isktiid 
of Sumatra, and from thence to Siam, where we ex- 
changed some of our wares for opium and some arrack; 
the iirst a commodity whieh bears a great price among 
the Chinese, and whieh, at that time, was mach 
wanted there. In a word, we went up to Suskan, 
made a very great voyage, were eight months out, and 
retumed to Bengal ; and I was very well satisfiied 
with my adventure. I observe that our people in Eng- 
land often admire how officers, whieh the Company 
send into India, and the merchants whieh generally 
stay there, get such very great esiates as they do, and 
sometimes come home worth sixty or seventy thousand 
pounds at a time ; but it is do wönder, or at least we 
shall see so much farther into it, when we consider the 
innumerable ports and places where they have a free 
commerce, that it will be none ; and much less it will 
be so when we consider that at those places and ports 
where the English ships come, there is such great and 
constant demands for the growth of all other countries, 
that there is a certain vent for the returns, as well as 
a market abroad for the goods carried out. 

In short, we made a very good yoyage, and I got 
so much money by my first adventure, and such an 
insight into the method of getting more, that had I 
been twenty years ypunger, I should have been tempted 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 203 

» 

to haye stayed here, and sought no farther for making 
any fortune ; but what was all this to a man upwards 
of threescore, that was rieh enough, and came abroad 
more in obedience to a restless desire of seeing the 
World, than a covetous desire of gaining by it ? And« 
indeed, I think it is with great justice I now call it 
restless desire, for it was so. When I was at home, I 
was restless to go abroad ; and when I was abroad, I 
¥^as restless to be at home. I say, what was this garn 
to me ? I was rieh enough already, nor had I any un- 
easy desires about getting more money ; and therefore 
the profit of the voyage to me was of no great force 
for the prompting me forward to farther undertakings ; 
hence I thought that by this voyage I had made no 
progress at all, because I was come back, as I might 
call it, to the place from whence I came, as to a 
home ; whereas my eye, which, like that which So- 
lomon speaks of, was neyer satisfied with seeing, was 
still more desirous of wandering and seeing. I was 
come into a part of the world which I was never in 
before, and that part, in particular, which I had heard 
mach of, and was resolyed to see as much of it as I 
could ; and then I thought I might say I had seen all 
the World that was worth seeing. 

But my fellow-trayeller and I had difTerent notions: 
I do not name this to insist on my own, for I acknow- 
ledge his were the most just, and the most suited to the 
end of a merchant's life ; who, when he is abroad on 
adventures, it is his wisdom to stick to that, as the 
best thing for him, which he is like to get the most 
money by. My new friend kept himself to the nature 
of the thing, and would have been content to haye 
gone like a carrier^s horse, always to the same inn, 
backward and forward, provided he could, as he 
called it, find his account in it. On the other band« 
mine was the notion of a mad rambling boy, that 
neyer cares to see a thing twice oyer. But this was 
not all : I had a kind of impatience on me to be nearer 



204 LIFE AND ADVENTURBS 

home, and yet the most unsettled resolution ima- 
ginable which way to go. In the interyal of these 
coDsultations, my friend, who was always on the 
search for business, proposed another yoyase to me 
among the Spiee IsIancUr^Id to bring home a loading 
of cloves firom the Manillas, or thereabouts ; places» 
indeed, where the Dutch trade, but Islands belonging 
partly to the Spaniards ; though we went not so far, 
but to some other, where they have not the whok 
power, as they have at Batavia, Ceylon, &c. 

We were not long in preparing for this yoyage; 
the chief difBculty was in bringing me to come into it i 
howeyer, at last, nothing eise bffering, and Unding 
that really stirring about and trading, the profit being 
so great, and, as I may say, certain, had more plea- 
sure in it, and had more satisfaction to my mind, tban 
sitting still, which, to me especially, was the ünbap- 
piest part of life, I resolved on this yoyage too, which 
we made yery successfuUy, touching at Borneo» and 
several islands whose names I do not remember, and 
came home in about iiye months. We sold our spiee, 
which was chiefly cloyes and some nutmegs, to the 
Persian merehants, who carried them away to the 
gulf ; and making near fiye of one, we really got a 
great deal of money. 

My friend, when we made up this account, smiled 
ät me : " Well now," said he, with a sort of agree- 
able insult on my indolent temper, '' is not this better 
than js^alking about here, like a man of nothing to do, 
and spending our time in staring at the nonsense and 
ignorance of the Pagans?" — ** Wby, truly," says I, 
** my friend, I think it is, and I begin to be a convert 
to the principles of merchandising ; but I must teil 
you," said 1, " by the way, you do not know what 
I am doing ; for if I once conquer my backwardness, 
and embark heartily, as old as I am 1 shall hara» 
you up and down the world tili I tire you ; for I shali 
pursue it so eagerly, I shall neyer let you lie still." 



( 



OF ROßlNSON CRUSOE. 205 

But, to be Short with my speculations, a little while 
after this there came in a Dutch ship from Batavia ; 
she was a coaster, not an European trader, of about 
two hundred tons bürden : the men, as they pretended, 
baving been so skkly, that the captain had not hands 
enough to go to sea with, he lay by at Bengal ; and 
having, it seems, got money enough, or being wilHng, 
for other reasons, to go for Europe, he gaye public 
notice he would seil his ship. This came to my ears 
before my new partner heard of it, and I had a great 
mind to buy it ; so I went to him, and toid him of 
it. He considered awhile, for he was no rash man 
neither ; but musing some time, he replied, *' She is a 
little too big ; but, howeVer, we will have her." Ac- 
cordingly, we bought the ship, and agreeing with the 
master, we paid for her, and took possession. When 
we had done so, we resolved to entertain the men, if 
we could, to join them with those we had, for the pur- 
saing cur business; but on a sudden, they having re- 
ceived, not their wages, but their share of the money, 
as we afterwards learnt, not one of them was to be 
found ; we inquired much about them, and at length 
were told that they were all gone together by land to 
Agra, the great city of the Mogul's residence, and 
from tbence were to travel to Surat, and go by sea to 
the gulf of Persia. 

Nothing had so much troubled me a good while as 
that 1 should miss the opportunity of going with 
them ; for such a ramble, I thought, and in such, Com- 
pany as would both bare guarded and diverted me, 
would have suited mightily with my great design ; 
and I should have both seen the world and gone 
homewards too : but I was much better satisfied a 
few dajrs after, when I came to know what sort of 
fellows they were ; for, in short, their history was, 
that tHis man they called captain was the gunner only, 
not the Commander ; that they had been a trading 
▼oyage, in which they had beeh attacked on shore by 



206 LIFE AND ADVBNTURES 

some of the Malays, who had killed tbe captain and 
three of bis men; and that after the captain was 
killed, these men, eleyea in number, had resolred to 
run away with tbe sbip, wbich they did, and broughl 
her to Bengal, leaving tbe mate and five mea. more on 
shore ; of wbom bereafter. 

Well, let tbem get tbe ship how they wot^ld, we 
came honestly by her, as we tbought^ though we did 
not, I confess, exaniine into tbings so exactly as we 
ougbt ; for we never inquired any tbing of the seamen, 
who would certainly bave faltered in tbeir account, 
contradicted one anotber, and perbaps contfadicted 
themselyes ; or one how or other we sbould have had 
reason to bave suspected tbem ; but tbe man showed 
US a bill of sale for tbe ship, to one Emanuel Closteis- 
hoven, or some such name, for I suppose it was all a 
forgery, and called bimself by that name, and we 
oould not contradict bim ; and witbal having no sus- 
picion of tbe tbing, we went through with cur bar* 
gain. 

We pieked up some more Englisb sailors here afiter 
this, and some Dutcb ; alid now we resolved for a 
second voyage to tbe soutb-east for cloves, &c. that is 
to say, among the Pbiiippine and Molucca isles ; 
and, in short, not to fiii up this part of my story with 
trifles, when what is to come is soremarkable, I spent, 
from first to last, six years in this country, trading 
from port to port, back ward and forward, and with 
very good success, and was now tbe last year with my 
new partner, going ^n tbe ship above mentioned, on 
a voyage to China, but designing first to go to Siam, 
to buy rice. 

In this voyage, being by.contrary winds obliged to 
beat up and down a great wbile in the straits of Ma- 
lacca, and among the islands, we were no sooner got 
clear of those difficult seas than we found our ship had 
Sprung a leak, and we were not able, by all our in- 
dustry, to find out where it was. This forced us to 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 207 

make some port, and my partner, who knew the coun- 
try better than I did, directed the captain to put into 
the river of Cambodia ; for I faad made the English 
mate, one Mr. Thompson, captain, not beinj^ wiiling 
to take the charge of the ship on myself. This river 
lies on the north side of the great bay or gulf which 
goes up to Siam. While we were here, and going 
often on shore for refreshment, there comes to me one 
day an Englishman, and he was, it seenis, a gunnerV 
mate on board an English East India ship which rode 
in the same river, up at or near the city of Cambodia; 
wfaat brought him hither we knew not ; but he comes 
to me, and speaking English, '' Sir," says he, '' you 
are a stranger to me, and I to you, but I have some- 
thing to teil you that very nearly concerns you." 

I looked steadfastly at him a good while, and 
thought at first I had known him, but I did not. ^< If 
it very nearly concerns me," said I, '* and not your- 
seif, what moves you to teil it to me?" — *' I am 
moyed," says he, '^ by the imminent danger you are in, 
and, for aught I see, you have no knowledge of it." — 
'* I know no danger I am in," says I, *< but that my 
sbip is leaky, and I cannot find it out ; but I intend to 
lay her aground to-morrow, to see if 1 can find it." — 
" But, Sir," says he, ** leaky or not leaky, find it or 
not find it, you will be wiser than to lay your ship on 
shore to-morrow, wlien you hear what I have to say 
to you : do you know, Sir," said he, " the town of 
Cambodia lies about fifteen leagues up this river, and 
there are two large English ships about five leagues on 
this side, and three Dutch?"— " Well," said I, *« and 
what is that to me ?"— " Why, Sir," said he, " is it for 
a man that is on such adventures as you are, to come 
into a port and not examine first what ships there are 
there, and whether he is able to deal with them ? I 
suppose you do not think you are a match for them ?" I 
was amused very much at his discourse,but not amazed 
at it, for I could not conceive what he meant ; and I 



208 LIFE AND ADVENTURSS 

turned short on him, and said, *' Sir, I wish yoB 
would explain yourself; I cannot imagine whatreason 
I have to be afraid of any of the Company's ships, or 
Dutch ships : I am no interloper ; what can they have 
to say to me ?" He looked like a man half angiy 
and half pleased, and pausing awhile, but smiling, 
** Well, Sir," says he, " if you think yourself secure, 
you must take your chance; I am sorry your fate 
should blind you against good advice ; but assure 
yourself, if you do not put to sea immediately, yon 
will the very next tide be attacked by fiye long-boats 
füll of men, and perhaps, if you are taken, you will be 
hanged for a pirate, and the particulars be examined 
at'terwards. I thought, Sir," added he, ** I should 
have met with a better reception than this, for doing 
you a piece of service of such importance." — " I can 
never be ungrateful," said I, " tor any service, or to 
any man that offers me any kindness ; but it is past my 
comprehension what they should have such adesignon 
me for : however, since you say there is no time to be 
lost, and that there is some villanous design on band 
against me, I will go on board this minute, and put to 
sea immediately, if my men can stop the leak, or if we 
can swim without stopping it : but, Sir," said I, 
'' shall I go away Ignorant of the cause of all this? 
Can you give me no further light into it?":^ — ** I can 
teil you but part of the Story, Sir," says he, " but l 
have a Dutch seaman here with me, and I believe I 
could persuade him to teil you the rest ; but there is 
scarce time for it : but the short of the story is this, the 
first part of which, I suppose, you know well enough, 
viz. that you was with this ship at Sumatra; that there 
your captain was murdered by the Malays, with three 
of his men ; and that you, or some of those that were 
on board with you, ran away with the ship, and are 
since turned pirates, This is the sum of the story, and 
you will all be seized as pirates, I can assure you, aad 
executed with yery little ceremony; for you know 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 209 

raeix^haiit ships show but little law to pirates, if they 
get them into their power/' — '* Now you speak plaia 
£iiglish/' Said I, *' and I thank you ; and thougfa I 
know nothing that we have done like what you talk 
of, for I am sure we came honesily and fairly by the 
ship ; yet seeing such a work is doing» as you «ay, and 
that you seem to mean honestly, I^ will be on my 
guard." — " Nay, sir," says he, ** do not talk of being 
on your guard ; the best defence is, to be out of the 
danger : if you haye any regard for your life, and 
the lives of all your men, put to sea, without fail, at high 
water ; and as you have a whole tide before you, you 
will be gone too far out before they can come down ; 
for they will come äway at high water, and as they 
have twenty miles to come, you will get near two 
hours of them by the difference of the tide, not reckoh- 
ing the length of the way ; besides, as they are only 
boats, and not ships, they will not venture to foUow 
you far out to sea, especially if it blows." — " Well," 
Said I, '' you have been very kind in this; what shall 
I do for you to make you amends ?" — " Sir," says he, 
** you may not be willing to make me any amencu, be- 
cause you may not be conyinced of the truth of it : I 
will make an offer to you ; I have nineteen months 
pay due to me on board the ship — , which I came 
out of England in ; and the Dutchman that is with me 
has seven months pay due to him ; if you will make 
good our pay to us, we will go along with you : if you 
find nothing more in it, we will desire no more ; but if 
we do convince you that we have saved your lives, and 
the ship, and the lives of all the men in her, we will 
leaye the rest to you." 

I consented to this readily, and went immediately 
on board, and the two knen with me. As soon as 1 
came to the ship*s side, my partner, who was on board» 
came out on the quarter-deck^ and called to me, with 
a great deal of joy, '* O ho ! O ho ! we have stopped 
Ae leak ! we have stopped the leak !"-*-<' Say yo« 

VOL. II. O 



ftld LIFE AND ADVENTUUBS 

SO V Said I, '' thank God ; but weigh aDchor then im»- 
mediately." — "Weigh!" says he, " what do you 
mean by that? "What is the matter?" — " Ask no 
quesUons/' said I, '' but all haods to work, aud weigh 
without losing a minute." He was surprised; but, 
however, he called the captain, and he immediately 
ordered the anchor to be got up ; and though the tide 
was not quite down, yet a little land-breeze blowing, 
we stood out to sea. Then I called him into the cabin, 
and told him the story ; and we called in the men, and 
they told us the rest of it : but as it took up a great 
deal of time, before we had done a seaman comes to 
the cabin-door, and called out to us that the captain 
bade him teil us we were chased. *' Chased !" says I ; 
** by what?" — " By five sloops, or boats," says the 
fellow, *« füll of men."— " Very well," said I ; " theo 
it is apparent there is something in it." In the next 
place 1 ordered all our men to be called up, and told 
them there was a design to seize the ship, and to take 
US for pirates, and asked them if they would stand by 
US, and by one another ; the men answered cheerfuliy, 
one and all, that they would live and die with us. 
Then I asked the captain what way he thought best for 
US to manage a fight with them ; for resist them I was 
resolved we would, and that to the last drop. He said 
readily that the way was to keep them off with our 
great shot as long as we could, and then to fire at 
them with our small arms, tokeep tbemfrom boarding 
' US ; but when neither of these would do any longer, we 
should retire to our dose quarters ; perhaps they had 
not materials to break opea our bulk-headSy or get in 
on US. 

The gunner had, in the mean time, orders to bring 
two guns to bear afore and aft, out of the steerage, to 
clear the deck, and load them with musket-buUets and 
small pieces of old iron, and what came next to band ; 
and thus we made ready for fight : but all this while 
we kept out to sea» with ^ind enough^ and could see 



OP ROBINSON CRUSOE* 211 

fhe boats at a distance, being fiye large long-boats« 
following US with all the sail they could make. 

Two of those boats, which by our glasses we could 
$ee were English, had out-sailed the rest, were near two 
leagues a-head of tbem, and gained on us considerablyi 
so-thai we found they would come up with us ; on 
which we fired a gun without ball, to intimate that 
they should bring to : and we put out a flag of truce« 
BS a Signal for parley ; but they came crowding after 
US, tili they came within shot, when we took in our 
white flag, they having made no answer to it, and 
hung out a rea flag, and fired at them with a shot. 
Notwithstanding this, they came on tili they were near 
enongh to call to them with a speaking-trumpet which 
we had on board ; so we called to them, and bade 
them keep off, at their peril. 

It was all one ; they crowded after us, and endea- 
Youred to come under our stern, so as to board us on 
our quarter ; on which, seeing they were resolute for 
inischief, and depended on the strength that foUowed 
them, I ordered to bring the ship to, so that they lay 
on our broadside ; when immediately we fired five 
guns at them, one of which had been levelled so true 
as to carry away the stern of the hindermost boat, and 
bring them to the necessity of taking down their sail, 
and rnnning all to the head of the boat to keep her 
from sinking ; 4so she lay by, and had enough of it ; 
but seeing the foremost boat crowd on after us, we 
made ready to fire at her in particular. While this 
was doing, one of the three boats that was behind, 
being forwarder than the other two, made up to the 
boat which we had disabled, to relieve her, and we 
could see her take out the men : we called again to 
the foremost boat, and offered a truce, to parley again, 
and to know what her business was with us ; but had 
oo answer, only she crowded close under our sternii 
On thb our gunner, who was a very dexterous fellow, 
ron out bis two chase-guns, and fired again at her, hni 



S12 LIFB AND ADVKNTUKn 

the shot missing, the men in tfae boat shouted, waved 
their caps, and came on ; but the gunner, getting 
quickly ready again, fired among them a second time, 
one shot of which, though it missed the boat itself, yet 
feil in among the men, and we could easily see bad 
done a great deal of mischief among them ; but we 
took no notice of that, wore the ship again, and 
brought our quarter to bear on them, and firing three 
guns more, we found the boat was almost split to 
pieces ; in particular, her rudder and a piece of her 
Stern was shot quite away ; so tiiey handed her sail 
immediately, and were in great disorder. But to com« 
plete their misfortune, our gunn^ let fly two guns at 
them again : where he hit them we could not teil, but 
we found the boat was sinking, and some of the men 
already in the water : on this I immediately manned 
out our pinnaoe, which we had kept close by our side, 
with Orders to pick up some of the men, if they could, 
and save them from drowning, and immediately come 
on board the ship with them, because we saw the rest 
of the boats began to come up. Our men in the pin- 
nace foUowed their orders, and took up three men, 
one of whom was just drowning, and it was a good 
while before we could recover him. As soon as they 
were on board, we crowded all the sail we could make, 
and stood farther out to sea ; and we found that when 
the other three boats came up to the first, they gaye 
over their chase. 

Being thus delivered from a danger, which, though 
I knew not the reason of it, yet seemed to be much 
greater than I apprehended, I resolved that we should 
change our course, and not let any one know whither 
we were going : so we stood out to sea eastward, quite 
out of the course of all European ships, whether they 
were bound to China or any where eise, within ^ 
commerce of the European nations. 

When we were at sea, we began to consult with the 
two seamen, and inquire what the meaning of all this 



er B0BIN80N CRUSOEt 213 

ahould be ; and the Dutchman iet us into the secret at 
once, telling us that the fellow that sold us the shi^j 
as we Said, was no more than a thief, that had run 
away with her. Theo he told tis how the captain^ 
whose name too he told us, though I do not remember 
it now, was treacherously murdered by the natives on 
the coast of Malacca, with three of his men ; and that 
he, this Dutchman, und four more, got into the woods^ 
where they wandered about a great while, tili at length 
he, in particular, in a miracqlous manner, made his 
escape, and swam off to a Dutch ship, which, sailing 
near the shore in its way from China, had sent their 
boat on shore for fresh water; that he durst not come 
to that part of the shore where the boat was, but made 
shift in the night to take the water farther off, and 
swimming a great while, at last the ship's boat took 
himup. 

He then told us that he went to Batavia, where two 
of the seamen belonging to the ship arriyed, having 
deserted the rest in their travels, and gave an account 
that the fellow who had run away with the ship sold 
her at Bengal to a set of pirates, who were gone a 
cruising in her ; and that they had already taken an 
JBnglish ship and two Dutch ships very richly laden. ' 

This latter part was found to concern us directly, 
though we knew it to be false : yet, as my partner 
said very justly, if we had fallen into their hands, and 
they had had such a prepossession against us before* 
hand, il had been in yain for us to have defended our- 
«elyes, or to hope for any good quarter at their hands; 
and especially considering that our accusers had been 
our judges, and that we could have expected nothing 
from them but what rage would have dictated, and an 
ungoverned passion have executed ; and therefore it 
was his opinion we should go directly back to Bengale 
ffom whence we came, without putting in at any port, 
whateyer; because there we could give a good ae» 



214 LIFE AN0 ADVENTURES 

count of oiirselves, could prove where wie were wheä 
the ship put in, of whom we bought her, and thd like ; 
and, which was more than all the rest, if we were pul 
on the necessity of bringing it beföre' the proper 

jndges, we should b^ sure to have some justice, and 
ttot to be hanged first and judged afterwards. 

I was some time of my partner's opinion ; but aft^ 
a little more serious thinking, I told him I thought it 
was a very great hazard for us to attempt returning to 
Bengal, for that we were on the wrong side of the 
Straits of Malacca, and that if the alarm was given, we 
should be sure to be waylaid on every side, as weU 
by the Dutch of Batavia as the English elsewhere; 
that if we should be taken, as it were, running away, 
we should even condemn ourselyes, 'and there would 
want no more evidence to destroy us. I also ssked 
the English sailor's opinion, who said he was of 
my mind, and that we should certainly be taken. 
This danger a little startled my partner, and all the 
ship's Company, and we immediately resolved to go 
äway to the coa^t of Tonquin, and so on to the coasi 
of China ; and, pursuing the ürst design as to trade, 
fiird some way or other to dispose of the ship, and 
come back in some of the vessels of the country, such 
as we could get. This was approved of as the best 
method for our security ; and accordingly we steered 

' away N.N.E. keeping above fifty leagues ofF from the 
usual course to the eastward. This, however, put us 
to some inconvenience ; for, first, the winds, when we 
came to that dii^tance from the shore, seemed to he 
more steadily against us, blowing almost trade, as we 
call it, from the E. and E.N.E. so that we were a 
long while on our voyage, and we were but ill pro- 
vided with victuals for so long a run ; and, which was 
still worse, there was some danger that those English 
and Dutch ships, whose boats pursued us, whereof 
•ome were bound that way, might be got in beforeus) 



OF ROBINSON CItUSOB. 21^ 

and if not, some other ship bound to China migfat have 
Information of us from them, and pursue us with thö 
same vigour. 

I must confess I was now yeiy nneasy, and thought 
myself, including the late escape from the iong-boats> 
to have been in the most dapgerous condition that 
ever I was in through my past life ; for whateyer iil 
circumstances I had been in, I was never pursued fof 
a thief before ; nor had I ever done any thing that 
merited the name of dishonest or fraudulent, much less 
thievish : I had chiefly been my own enemy, or, as I 
may rightly say, I had been nobody's enemy but m^^ 
own ; but now I was embarrassed in the worst con« 
dition imaginable ; for though I was perfectiy inno« 
Cent, I was in no condition to make that innoceno^ 
appear; and if I had been taken, it had been under 
a supposed guilt of the worst kind. This made tue 
very anxious to make an escape, though which way td 
do it I knew not, or what port or place we could gö 
to. My partner seeing me thus dejected, though hd 
was the most concemed at first, began to encourage 
me» and describing to me the several ports of that 
coast, told me he would put in on the coast of Cochin 
China, or the Bay of Tonquih, intending to go after«» 
i¥ards to Maoao, a town once in possession of the 
Portuguese, and where still a great many European 
families resided ; and particularly the missionary priest^ 
Qsuaüy went thither, in order to their going forward 
to China. 

Hither then we resolved to go; and accordingly, 
though after a tedious and irregulär course, and very 
much straitened for provisions, we came within sight 
^f the coast very early in the morning; and on re- 
flection on the past circumstances we were in, and 
tfae danger if we had not escaped, we resolved to jput 
iflto a small river, which, however, had depth enough 
et water for us, and to see if we could, either overland 
mt hy die thip's pinnace, come to know what shiif^ 



216 IdFE AND ADVENTURBS 

were ih äny port thereabottts. This happy step #•% 
indeed, our aeliyerance ; for though we did not in« 
mediately see any European ships in the bay of Ton« 
quin, yeC the next morning there came into the bay 
two Duteh ships ; and a third, without any colonn 
spread out, but which we believed to be a Dutch* 
man, passed by at about two leagues distance, steer* 
ing for the coast of China ; and in the afternoon wen! 
by two English ships steering the same course ; and 
tbus we thought we saw ourselves beset with enemies 
both one way and the other. The place we were in 
was wild and barbarous ; the people thieves, eyen by 
occupation or profession ; and though, it is true, we 
bad not much to seek of them, and, except getting a 
few provisions, cared not how little we had to do 
with them, yet. it was with much difficulty that we 
kept ourselyes from being insulted by them sey^rai 
ways. We were in a small riyer of this country, 
within a few leagues of its utmost limits northward ; 
and by our boat we coasted north-east, to the point 
of land which opens to the great bay of Tonquin ; and 
it was in this beatin g up along the shore that we dis« 
coyered we were surrouuded with enemies. The people 
we were among were the most barbarous of all the 
inhabitants of the coast, haying no correspondenoe 
with any other nation, and dealing only in fish and 
oil, and such gross commodities ; and it may be pu* 
ücularly seen that they are the most barbarous of any 
of the inhabitants. Among other customs, they hate 
this one, yiz. that if any yessel has the miisfortune to 
be shipwrecked on their coast, they presently make 
the men all prisoners or slayes ; and it was not long 
before we found a piece of their kindness this way, o» 
the occasion foUowing. 

I have obseryed aboye, that our ship sprung a leak 
at sea, and that we could not find it out ; and it hap- 
pened that, as I haye said, it was stopped unexpecl^ 
edly, in the happy minute of our being to be aeused 



OF EOBINSON CRUSOE4 211 

by tibe Datch and English ships in the bay of Siam ; 
yet as we did not find the ship so perfectly tight and 
Sound as we desired, we resolved, whiie we were at 
this place, to lay her on shore, and take out what 
keavy things we had on board, and clean her bottom ; 
and» if possible, to und out where ^he leaks were. 
Accordingly, having lightened the ship, and brought all 
our guns and other moveables to one side, we tried to 
bring her down, that we might come at her bottom; 
but, on second thoughts, we did not care to lay her 
on dry ground, neither could we find out a proper 
place for it. 

The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted 
with such a sight, came wondering down the shore 
to look at US ; and seeing the ship lie down on one 
• lide in such a manner, and heeling in towards the 
shore, and not seeing our men, who were at'worl| 
on her bottom with stages, and with their boats on 
the off side, they.presently concluded that the ship 
was east away, and lay so fast on the ground. On 
this supposition, they all came about us in two or 
three hours time, with ten or twelve large boats» 
haring some of them eight, some ten men in a boat^ 
intending, no doubt, to have come on board and 
plundered the ship ; and if they had found us there, 
to haye carried us away for slaves to their king, or 
whatever they call him, for we knew nothing of their 
govemor. 

When they came up to the ship and began to row 
Tound her, they discoyered us all hard at work on the 
oatside of the ship's bottom and side, washing, and 
craTing, and stoppin g, as every seafaring man knows 
hovr* They stood for a while gazing at us, and we, 
wlio ¥rere a little surprised, could not imagine what 
their design was; but being willing to be sure, we 
look tkis opportunity to get some of us into the ship, 
and othcrs to band down arms and ammunition to 
tbOM that were at work to defend themselves with, if 



218 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

there should be occasion ; and it was no more thad 
need ; for in less than a quarter of an hour's consulta- 
tion, they agreed, it seems, that the ship was realiy a 
wreck ; and that we were all at work, endeavouring 
to save her, or to save our lives by the help of our 
boats ; and wh^n we handed our arms into the boats, 
they concluded, by that motion, that we were endea- 
vouring to save some of our goods : on this they toök 
it for granted we all belonged to them, and away they 
eame directly on our men, as if it had been in a Une 
of battle. 

Our men, seeing so many of them, began to be 
frightened, for we lay but in an ill posture to üght, 
and cried out to us to know what they should do. i 
immediately called to the men that worked on thä 
stages, to slip them down, and get up the side into 
the ship ; and bade those in the boat to row round, 
and come on board ; and those few of us who were on 
board worked with all the streng th and hands we had, 
to bring the ship to rights ; but, however, neither the 
men on the stages nor those in the boats could do as 
they were ordered, before the Cochin Chinese were 
on them ; and two of their boats boarded our long- 
boat, and began to lay hold of the men as their 
prisoners. 

The first man they laid hold of was an English 
Seaman, a stout, strong fellow, who, having a musket 
in bis band, never offered to fire it, but laid it down 
in the boat, like a fool, as I thought ; but he under- 
stood bis business better than I could teach him, for 
he grappled the pagan, and dragged him by main 
force out of their boat into ours, where taking him by 
the ears, he beat bis head so against the boat's gunnel, 
that the fellow died in bis hands ; and, in the mean 
time, a Dutchman, who stood next, took up the mus- 
ket, and with the but-end of it so laid about him, that 
he knocked down five of them who attempted to enter 
the boat. But this was doing little towardä resistiDg 



, 



I. , 
I ii 



!■'. i 



••■B 



"ll 



'i'i 



ÖF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 219 

thirty or forty men, who fearless, because Ignorant of 
their danger, began to throw themselves into the long- 
boat, where we had but live men in all to defend it : 
but the following accident, whieh deserved our laugh- 
ter, gave our men a complete victory. 

Our carpenter being prepared to grave tbe outside 
of the ship, as well as to pay tbe seams where he 
had caulked her to stop the leaks, had got two kettles 
just let down ^nto the boat, one filled with boiling 
pitch, and the other with rosin, tallow, and oil, and 
such stuff as the shipwrights use for that work ; and 
the man that attended the carpenter had a great iron 
ladle in bis band, with which he supplied the men 
that were at work with the bot stuff: two* of tbe 
enemy*3 men entered the boat just where this fellow 
stood, being in the fore-sheets ; he immediately sa- 
luted them with a ladle füll of the stuff, boiling bot, 
which so burned and scalded them, being half naked, 
that they roared out like bulls, and, enraged with the 
fire, leaped both into the sea. The carpenter saw it, 
and .cried out, *' Well done, Jack ! give them some 
more of it:" and, stepping forward himself, takes one 
of the mops, and dipping it in the pitch-pot, he and 
his man threw it among them so plentifully, that, 
in Short, of all the men in the three boats there was 
not one that escaped being scalded and burnt with 
it, in a most frightful, pitiful manner, and made such 
a howling and crying, that I never heard a worse 
noise : for it is worth observing, that though pain na- 
turally makes all people cry out, yet every nation has 
a particular way of exclamation, and makes noises as 
different from one another as their speech. I cannot 
giye the noise these creatures mmde a better naroe than 
howling, nor a name more proper to the. tone of it ; 
for I hevet heard any thing more like the noise of the 
wolves, which, as I' have said, I heard howl in the 
forest on the frontiers of Languedoc. 

I i¥as nferet better pleased with a victory in my 



920 MFE AND ADVBNTURB8 

life ; not only as it was a perfect surprise tö me, and 
that our daoger was imminent before, but as we got 
this yictory without any bloodshed, except of that 
man the fellow killed with bis naked hands» and 
wfaich I was yery much concerned at, for I was sick 
of killing such poor sayage wretcbes, even tbough it 
was in my own defence, knowiug they came on er-* 
rands which they tbougbt just, and knew no better; 
and tbat though it may be a just thing, because neoes- 
sary, (for there is no necessary wickedness in natore) 
yet I thought it was a sad life, when we must be 
always obliged to be killing our fellow-creatures to 
preserve ourselves ; and, indeed, I tbink so still, aad 
I would even now suffer a great deal, ratber thaa I 
would take away the life even of the worst pers6n in- 
juring me ; and I believe all considering people who 
know the value of life would be of my opinion, if they 
entered seriously into the consideration of it. 

But to return to my story : — All the while tbis was 
doing, my partner and I, who managed the rest of llie 
men on board, had with great dexterity brought the 
ship almost to rights, and having got the guns into 
their places again, the gunner called to me to bid 
our boat get out of the way, for he would let fly 
among them. I called back again to him, and bid 
him not offer to fire, for the carpenter would do the 
work without him ; but bid him heat another pitch- 
kettle, which our cook, who was on board, took care 
of : but the enemy vras so terriAed with wbat they hdl 
met with in their Arst attack, that they would noi 
come on again ; and some of them who were farthest 
off, seeing the ship swim, as it were, upright, began, 
as we suppose, to see their mistake, and give over the 
enterprise, Anding it was not as they expected. Thtti 
we got clear of this merry Aght, and having got soM 
rice, and some roots and bread, with about sixteei 
hogs, on board, two days before, we resolved to staj 
bere no longer, but go forward, whatever came of it; 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 221 

Ibr we made no doubt but we should be surrounded 
the next day with ro^es enough, perhaps more than 
oar pitch-kettle would dispose of for us. We there- 
fore got all our tbings on board the same evening, 
and the next morning were ready to sali : in the mean 
tUne, lying at anchor at some distanoe from the shore, 
we were not so much concerned, being now in a f]ght-> 
lag posture, as well as in a sailing posture, if any 
ememy had presented. ' The next day, having finished 
our work within board, and Unding our ship was per- 
fectly healed of all her leaks, we set sail. We would 
hiiVe gone into the bay of Tonquin, for we wanted to 
mform ourselves of wbat was to be known concerning 
the Dutch ships tbat had been there ; but we durst 
Bot stand in there, because we had seen several ships 
go in, as we supposed, but a little before ; so we kept 
0B. N.E. towards the Island of Formosa, as much 
afraid of being seen by a Dutch or English merchant 
ship, as a Dutch or English merchant ship in the Me» 
diterranean is of an Alger ine man of war. 

When we were thus got to sea, we kept on N.E. 
as if we would go to the Manillas or the Philippine 
Islands, and this we did that we might not fall into the 
way of any of the European ships ; and then we steered 
iiorth, tili we came to the latitude of 22 deg. 30 min. 
by which means we made the Island Formosa directly, 
where we came to an anchor, in order to get water aml 
fresh provisions, which the people there, who are yery 
Gourteous and civil in their manners, supplied us with 
willingly, and dealt very fairly and punctually with üst 
in all their agreements and bargains, which is what we 
did not find among other people, and may be owing to^ 
the remains of Christianity which was once planted 
here by a Dutch missionary of protestants, and is a 
testimony of what I have often observed, viz. that the 
Christian religion always civilises the people and re- 
fbrms their manners, where it is received, whether it 
moA» «aTiBg efifects on them or na. 



222 LIPB AND ADVENTURES 

From thence we saiied still north, keeping tbe coask 
of China at an equal distance, . tili we knew "we were 
beyond all the ports of China where our European 
ships usually come ; being resolved, if possible, not to 
fall into any of their hands, especially in this country; 
where, as our circumstances were, we could not fail of 
being entirely ruined. 

Being now come to the latitude of thirty degrees, we 
resolved to put into the first trading port we shouM 
comie at ; and standing in for the shore, a boat caoe 
off two leagues to us, with an old Portuguese pilot 
on board, who knowing us to be an European ship, 
came to offer bis service, which, indeed, we were gkd 
of, and took bim on board ; on which, without asking 
US whither we would go, he dismissed the boat he came 
in, and sent it back. 

I thought it was now so much in our choiee to mak^ 
the old man carry us whither we would, that 1 b^;80 
to talk to him about carrying us to the gulf of Nan- 
quin, which is the most northern part of the coastof 
China. The old man said he knew the gulf of Nao- 
quin yery well ; but smiling, asked us what we woold 
do there ? I told him we would seil our cargo and 
purchase China wares, calicos, raw silks, tea, wrougfat 
silks, &c. and so would return by the same course we 
came. He told us our best port had been to have put 
in at Macao, where we could not have failed of a mar- 
ket for our opium to our satisfaction, and might for 
our money have purchased all sorts of China goods as 
cbeap as we could at Nanquin. 

Not being able to put the old man out of hb talk, 
of which he was very opinionated or conceited, I told 
him we were gentlemen as well as merchants, and that 
we had a mind to go and see the great city of Pekin, 
and the famous court of the monarch of China. * • Whji 
then," says the old man, ** you should go to Ningpo, 
where, by the river which runs into the sea there, yol 
may go up withiu five leagues of the great canal. Tbif 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 223 

•anal is a navigable stream, which goes through the 

iieart of that vast empire of China, Grosses all the ri« 

versy passes some considerable hüls by the help of 

sluices and gates, and goes up to the city of Pekin, 

being in length near two hundred and seventy leagues/^ 

** Well," said I, " Seignior Portuguese, but that is 

not cur business now ; the great question is, if you can 

iSBTrj US up to the city of Nanquin, from whence we can 

travel to Pekin afterwards ?" He said he could do so 

▼ery well, and that there was a great Dutch ship gone 

up that way just before. This gave me a little shock, 

for a Putch ship was now our terror, and we had mucb 

rather have met the devil, at least if he had not come 

in too frightful a Agare ; and we depended on it that a 

I>utch ship would be our destruction, for we were in 

no condition to fight them ; all the ships they trade 

with into those parts being of great bürden, ^and of 

IDuch greater force than we were. 

The old man found me a little confused, and under 
0ome concern, when he named a Dutch ship ; and 
said to me, ** Sir, you need be under no apprehen» 
sions of the Dutch ; I suppose they are not now at 
¥^ar with your nation ?" — *' No," said I, ** that-s 
true; but I kuow not what liberties men may take 
when they are out of the reach of the laws of their 
own country." — " Why," says he, " you are no pi- 
rates; what need you fear? They will not meddle 
with peaceable merchants, sure." 

If I had any blood in my body that did not fly up 
into my fa)ce at that word, it was hindered by some 
stop in the vessels appointed by nature to circulate 
jty for it put me into the greatest disorder and con- 
fusion imaginable : nor was it possible for me to con- 
ceal it 8o, but the old man easily perceived it. 

** Sir," says he, '* I And you are in some disorder 
in your thoughts at my talk ; pray be pleased to eo 
whicb way you think At, and depend on it, I'U do 
you all the service I can.*' — ** Why, seignior," said 



224 LIFE AND ▲BVSKTCRES 

I, <* it is true, I am a little unietded in my resokitm 
at this time, whitber to go itt<|HÄticular; and I an 
something more so for what you said about pirateo. 
I hope tbere are no pirates in 'Ihese seas ; we are b«t 
in an iJl condition to meet with them, for you see 
we bave but a small force, and are but very weakiy 
manned." — " O, sir/' says be, " don't be concerned, 
I do not know that tbere bave been any pirates in 
tbese seas tbese fifteen years, except one, which was 
fieen, as I hear, in tbe bay of Siam, about a month 
since ; but you may be assured she is gone to the 
southward ; nor was she a ship of any great force, or 
fit for the work : she was not built for a privateer, 
but was run away with by a reprobate crew tbß,t wtt 
on board, after the captain and some of his men had 
been murdered by the Malayans, at or near the kland 
of Sumatra." — " What!" said I, seeming to know 
nothing of the matter, *' did they murder the cap- 
tain ?"— " No/' said he, "I don't understand that 
they murdered him ; but as they afterwards ran awaj 
with the ship, it is generally believed that they be- 
trayed him into the hands of the Malayans, who did 
murder him ; and perhaps they procured them to do 
it.'' — " Why then," said I, ** they deserve death as 
much as if they had done it themselves." — " Nay," 
says the old man, " they do deserve it; and they will 
certainly have it, if they light on any English or 
Dutch ship ; for they have all agreed together, that 
if they meet that rogue they'll give him no quarter." 
— ** But," said I to him, " you say the pirate is gone 
out of these seas ; how can they meet with him theo ?** 
— " Why that's true," says he, ** they do say so; 
but he was, as I teil you, in the bay of Siam, in tbe 
river Cambodia ; and was discovered there by some 
Dutchmen who belonged to the ship, and who were 
left on shore when they ran away with her ; and some 
English and Dutch traders being in the river, tbej 
were within a little of taking him : näy," said he^ *' u 



Olf BOBJNSON CRUSOE« 22d 

the foremost boats had been well seconded by the 
Yest) they had certainly taken hin.; but he, findihg 
only two boats within reack of him, tacked about« 
and fired at , those X^96, and disabled them before the 
others came up, and then Standing off to «ea, the 
others were not abie to follow, and so he got away ; 
but they have all so exact a description of the ship, 
that they will be SBi*^ to know her; and wherever 
they find her they have yowed to give no quarter 
either to the captain or seamen, but to hang them all • 
up at the yard-arm." — ** What!" said I, ** will they 
execute them right or wrong; hang them first, and 
Judge them afterwards ?" — ** O, sir," says the old 
pilot, '' there is no need to make a formal business of 
it with such rogues as those ; let them tie them back 
to back, and set them a diving, 'tis no more than they 
deserve." 

I kuew I had my old man fast ou board, and that 
he could do Ao härm, so that I turned short on him : 
** Well now, seignior," said 1, ** this is the very 
reason why I would have you carry us up to Nan- 
quin, and not put back to Macao, or to any other 
part of the country where the English or Dutch ships 
come; for be it known to you, seignior, those cap- 
tains of the English and Dutch ships are a parcel of 
rashy prbud, insolent fellows, that neither know what 
belongs to justice, or how to behave themselves as the 
laws of God and nature direct; but being proud of 
their offices, and not understanding their power, they 
would act the murderers to punish robbers ; would 
take on them to insult men falsely accused, and de- 
termine them guilty without due inquiry : and perhaps 
I may live to bring some of them to accounc for it, 
when they may be taught how justice is to be ex- 
ecuted; and that no man ought to be treated as a 
criminal tili some evidence may be had of the crime, 
mnd that he is the man." 

With this I told him that this was the very ship 

VOL. II. ^ 



226 LIFE ANJ> ADVENTURES 

they attacked, and gave him a füll account of tbe skir- 
miw WC had with 'their boats, and how foolishly and 
cowardly they behaved. I told him all tbe story of 
our buying the ship, and how tbe Dtitcbndan served us. 
I told him the reasons I had to belieye tbe story of 
killing the master by tbe Malayans was tnie, as also 
the ntnning away with the ship ; but it was all a fic- 
tion of their own to suggest that the men had tumed 
pirates, and they ought to bave been sure it was so 
before they had yentured to attack us by surprise, and 
oblige US to resist them ; adding, that they would haye 
the blood of those men, whom we killed there in just 
defence, to answer for. 

The old man was amazed at this relation, and told 
us we were yery mueh in the right to go away to the 
north ; and that if he might adyise us, it sbould be to 
' seil the ship in China, which we might yery well do, 
and buy or build another in the country; " and," 
Said he, ** though you will not giBt so good a ship, yet 
you may get one able enough to carry you and all 
your goods back again to Bengal, or any where eise." 
I told him I would take bis adyice when I came to 
any port where I could find a ship for my turn, or get 
any customer to buy this. He replied, I should meet 
with customers enough for the ship at Nanquin, and 
that a Chinese junk would serve me yery well to go 
back again ; and that he would procure me peoplä 
both to buy one and seil the other. " Well, but, 
seignior," said I, ** as you say they know the ship so 
weil, 1 may, perhaps, if I follow your measures, be 
instrumental to bring some honest innocent men into a 
terrible broil, and perhaps to be murdered in cold 
blood ; for wherever they find the ship, they will proye 
the guilt on the men, by proving this was the ship, 
and so innocent men may probably be oyerpowered 
and murdered." — ** Why," says the old man, " I'H 
find out a way to preyent that also ; for as I know alt 
those Commanders you speak of yery well, and shali 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. 227 

see thein all as theypass by, I will be sure to sei them 
to rights in the thing, ana let them know that they 
had been so much in the wrong; that though tfa^ 
people wbo were oa board at first might ruB away 
with the ship, yet it was not true that they had turned 
pirates; and that, in particular, these were not the 
men that first went off' with the ship, but innocently 
bought her for their trade ; and I am persuaded they 
will so far belieye me, as at least to act more cau- 
tiously for the time to come." 

While these things were passing between us, by 
way oF discourse, we went forward directly for Nan- 
quin, and in about thirteen days sail came to an an- 
chor at the south-west point of the great gulf of Nan- 
quin; where, by the way, I came by accident to 
understand that two Dutch ships were gone that leogth 
before me, and that I should certainly fall into their 
haÄds. I consulted my partner again in this exigency, 
and he was as much at a loss as I was, and would 
▼ery gladly have been safe on shore almost any where : 
howeirer, I was not in such perplexity neither, but I 
asked the old pilot if there was no creek or harbour 
which I might put into and pursue my business with 
the Chinese privately, and be iu no daoger of the 
enemy. He told me, if I would sail to the southward 
about forty-two leagues, there was a little (iort called 
Quinchang, where the fathers of the mission usually 
landed from Macao, on tlieir progress to teach the 
Christian religion to the Chinese, and where no Eu- 
ropean ships ever put in ; and if I thought to put in 
there, I might consider what farther course to take 
when I was on shore. He confessed, he said, it was 
/ not a place for merchants, except that at some certain 
times they had a kind of a fair there, when the mer- 
chants from Japan came over thither to buy the Chi- 
nese merchandises. 

We aU agreed to go back to this place ; the name 
#f the port, as he calfed it, I may perhaps spell wrong. 



22B LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

for I do not particularly remember it, haying lost'this, 
together with the names of many other places sei dowa 
in a little pocket-book, which was spoiled by the watier 
by an accident ; but this I remember, that the Chinese 
or Japanese merefaants we corresponded with called it 
by a different name from that which our Portuguese 
pilot gave it, and pronoiinced it as above, — Quin- 
chang. 

j\s we were unanimous in our resolution .to go to 
this place, we weighed the next day, having only gone 
twice on shore where we were to get fresh water ; on 
both which occasions the people of the country were 
very civil to us, and brought us abundance of things 
to seil to US, I mean of provisions, plants, roots, tea, 
rice, and some fowls, but nothing witfaout money. 

We came to the other port (the wind being contrary) 
not tili five days, but it was very much to our satisfac- 
tion ; and I was joyful, and I may say thankful, wben 
I set my tbot on shore, resolving, and my partner too, 
that if it was possible to dispose of ourselves and eifects 
any other way, though not every way to our satisfac- 
tion, we would never set one foot on board that un- 
happy yessel more ; and, indeed, I must acknowledge, 
that of all the circumstances of life that ever I had 
any experience of, nothing makes mankind so com- 
pletely miserable as that of being in constant fear. 
Well does the Scripture say, " The fearof man brings 
a snare ;" it is a life of death, and the mind is so en- 
tirely oppressed by it, that it is capable of no relief. 

Nor did it fail of its usual Operations on the fancy» 
by heightening every danger, representing the English 
and Dutch captains to be men incapable of hearing 
reason, or of distinguishing between honest men and 
rogues ; or between a story calculated for our own 
turn, made out of nothing, on purpose to deceive, and 
a true genuine account of our whole voyage, progress, 
and design ; for we might many waya have öonyinced 
any reasonable creature that we were not pirates ; the 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 229 

goods we had on board, the course we steered, our 

frankly showing ourselves, and entering into such and 

such ports ; and even our very manner, the foree we 

liady the numberof men, the few arms, little ammuni- 

tion, Short provisions ; all these would have served to 

conyince any men that we were no pirates. The Qpium 

and other goods we had on board would make it ap-«> 

pear the ship had been at Bengal. The Dutchmen» 

whö, it was Said, had the names of all the men that 

were in the ship, might easily see that we were a mix- 

ture of English^ Portuguese, and Indians, and but 

two Dutchmen on board. These, and many other par- 

ticular circumstances, might have made it evident to 

the understanding of any Commander, whose hands 

we might fall into, that we were no pirates. But 

fear, that blind, useless passion, worked another way, 

and threw us into the yapors ; it bewildered our \|a- 

derstandings, and set the Imagination at work to form a 

thousand terrible things that perhaps might never hap- 

peo. We first supposed, as indeed every body had re* 

lated to US, that the seamen on board the English and 

Diitch ships, but especially the Dutch, were so enraged 

it the name of a pirate, and especially at our beating ofF 

their boats and escaping, that they would not give 

themselves leave to inquire whether we were pirates 

er no; but would execute us off band, as we call it, 

without giving us any room for a defence. We re- 

flected that there really was so much apparent evu 

dence before them, that they would scarce inquire 

after any more \ ^s, ürst, that the ship was certainly 

the same, and that some of the seamen among them 

fcnew her, and had been on board her ; and, secondly, 

that when we had intelligence at the river of Cambo* 

dia that they were coiüing down to examine us, we 

fought their boats and fled ; so that we made no 

doubt l^ut they were as fully satisfied of our being 

Jiratesy as we were satisfied of the contrary ; and, as 
often said» I know not but I should have been apt 



230 LIFE AND ADYENTUHES 

to have^ taken those circumstances for eyidence» if the 
tables were turned^ and my case was theirs ; and bare 
made no scruple of cutting all the crew to pieces, 
without believing, or perhaps coosideringy what they 
might bave to offer in tbeir defence. 

Bi^ let that be how it will, these were our appre- 
hensions ; and both my partner and I scarce slept a 
night wiUiout dreaming of halters and yard^arms, that . 
is to say, gibbets ; of fighting» and being taken ; of kill- 
ing, and being killed : and one night I was in such a 
fury in my dream, fancying the Dutchmen faad boarded 
US» and I was knocking one of their seamen down» 
that I Struck my double fist against the side of theca- 
bin I lay in with such a force, as wounded my band 
grievously, broke my knuckles» and cut and bruised the 
üeahy so that it awaked me out of my sleep. ' 

^nother apprehension I had was, the cruel usage 
we might meet with from them if we feil into their 
faands: then the story of Amboyna came into my 
head, and how the Dutch might perhaps torture us, 
as thcy did our countrymen there, and make some of 
our men, by extrem^ity of torture, confess those crimes 
they never were guilty of, or own themselves and all 
of US to be pirates, and so they would put us to death 
with a formal appearance of justice ; and that they 
might be tempted to do this for the gain of our ship 
and cargo, which was worth four or five thousand 
pounds, put all together. 

These things tormented me and my partner too» 
night and day; nor did we consider that the captains 
of ships have no authority to act thus ; and if we had 
surrendered prisoners to them, they could not answer 
the destroying us, or torturing us, but would be ac* 
coun table for it when they came to their own country : 
this, I say, gave me no satisfaction ; for if they were 
to act thus with us, what advantage would it be to us 
that they should be called to an account for it ? or if 
we were first to be murdered, what satisfaction would 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE» 231 

it be to US to have them punbhed when tliev came 
home ? * • 

I cannot refrain taking notice here what reflecttons 
r now had on the yast yariety of my particnlsur cir- 
cumstances ; how hard I thought it was, that 1, who 
had spent forty years in a life of cöntinual difficulties^ 
and was at last come, aa it were, to the port oHtaven 
whicb all meii driye at, vis. to haye rest and plenty, 
shoiild be a volunteer in new sorrows by my own un-c 
happy choice; and that I, who bad escaped so many 
dangers in my yoqth, sbould now come to be hanged 
in my old age, and in so remote a place, for a crime 
whicb I was not in the least inclined to, mucb less 
guilty of. 

After tbese tboughts," sometbing of religion would 
come in ; and I would be considering that thts seemed 
to me to be a disposition of immediate Proyidence, 
and I ought to look on it and submit tö it as such ; 
that although I was innocent as to men, l wsts far 
from being innocent as to my Maker ; and I ought to 
look in and examine what other crimes in my life were 
most obyious to me, and for whicb Proyidence might 
justly inflict this punishment as aretribution ; and tbat 
I ouffht to submit to this, just as I would to a ship^ 
wreck, if it bad pleased 6od to haye brought such a 
disaster on me. 

Initsturn, natural courage would sometimes take 
its place, and then I would be talking myself up to 
vigorous resolutions; that I would not be taken to 
be barbarously used by a parcel of merciless wretches 
in cold blood ; that it were mucb better to haye üallea 
into the hands of the sayages, thougb I was sure thej 
would feast on me when they had taken me, than those 
who would perbaps glut their rage on me by inhuman 
tortures and barbarities ; that in the case of the sa* 
▼ases I always resolyed to die fighting to the last gasp, 
and wby sbould I not do so now, seeing it was much 
more dr^ful« to me at least, to tbink of falling into 



%22 LIFE AKB ADVENTURES 

these men's hands, thanr ever it was to think of being 
eaten uy men ? for the savages, giye them their due, 
wouid not eat a man tili he was killed and dead, bat 
that these men had many arts beyond the cruelty of 
death. Whenever these thoughts prevailed, I was 
üure to put myself intö a kind of fever with the agita- 
tion 0f a supposed fight ; my. blood would boil, and 
my eyes sparkle, as if I was engaged, and I always 
resolved to take no quarter at their hands ; bot, eveil 
at last, if I could resist no longer, I would blow up 
the ship and all that was in her^ and leave them but 
little booty to boast of. 

The greater weight the anxieties and perplexitiet 
of these things were to our thoughts while we were at 
sea, the . greater was our satisfaction when we saw 
ourselves on shore ; and my partner told me he dreamed 
that he had a yery heavy load on bis back, whieh he 
was to carry up a hill, and found that he was not able 
to stand longer under it ; but that the Portuguese pilot 
came and took it off bis back, and the hill disappear- 
ed, the ground before him appearing all smooth and 
piain ; and truly it was so ; they were all like men who 
had a load taken off their backs. Fot my part, I had 
a weight taken off from my heart that it was not abie 
any longer to bear; and, as I said above, we resolved 
to go no more to sea in that ship. When we came on 
shore, the old pilot, who was now our friend, got us a 
lodging and a warehouse for our goods, which, by the 
way, was much the same : it was a little house, er hut, 
with a larger house adjoining to it, all built with canes, 
and palisadoed round with large canes, to keep out 
pilfering thieves, of which, it seems, there were not a 
few in that country ; however, the magistrates allowed 
US a little guard, and we had a soldier with a kind of 
halberd, or half-pike, who stood sentinel at our door; 
to whom we allowed a pint of rice, and a little piece 
of money, about the value of threepence, per day, so 
that our goods were kept very safer 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE« 123Si 

Hie fair, or mwrt, usually kept in this place, had 
beea over some time : however, we found that «there 
were three or four junks in the river, and two Japan- 
nerSy I mean ships from Japan, with .goods which they 
had bought in China, and were not gone away, having 
some Japanese merchants on shore. 

The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us 
was, to get US acquainted with three missionary Ro- 
mish priests who were in town, and who had been there 
some time Converting the people to Christianity ; 
but we thought they made but poor work of it, and 
made them but sorry Christians when they had done : 
however, that was none of our business. One of these 
«ras a Frenchman, whom they called Father Simon * 
another was a Portuguese, and the third a Genoese«; 
but Father Simon was courteous, easy in his manner, 
and very agreeable Company ; the other two were more 
reserved, seemed rigid and austere, and applied se-* 
rioasly to the work they came about, viz. to talk with» 
and insinuate themselves among, the inhabitants^ 
wherever they had opportunity. We often ate and 
drank with tbose men ; and though, I must con« 
fess, the conversion, as they call it, of the Chinese to 
Christianity is so far from the true conversion required 
to bring heathen people to the faith of Christ, that it 
seems to amount to little more than letting them know 
the name bf Christ, and say some prayers to the Vir-^ 
gin Mary and her Son, in a tongue which they under- 
stand not» and to cross themselves, and the«like ; yet 
it must be confessed that the religionists, whom we 
call missionaries, have a firm belief that these people 
will be saved, and that they are the instruments of it ; 
and, on this account, they undergo not only the fa* 
tigue of the voyage, and the hazards of living in such 
places, but often times death itself, with the most vio-* 
lent tortnres, for the sake of this work. 

But to retum to my story : This French priest» 
Father Simon» was appointed» it seems» by order of 



234 UFE AND ADVBNTURfiS 

the Chief of the mission, to go up to Pekin, the royal 
seat of the Chinese emperor, ana waited only for aa* 
other priest, who was ordered to come to him firom 
Macao, to go along with him ; and we scarce evür 
met together but he was inviting me to go that joux-^ 
ney ; telling me how he would show me all th^ giori- 
ous things of tbat mighty eaipire, and» among the 
rest, the greatest city in the World ; " a-city/' said be^ 
^* that your London and our Paris put together» caa- 
not be equal to." This was the city of Pekin, which» I 
confess, is very great, and infinitely füll of peopk; 
but as I looked on those things with different eyei 
from other men, so I shall give my opinion of them ia 
a few words, wben I come in the course of my traveb 
to speak more particularly of them. 

But, first, I come to my friar or nüssionary. Dininf 
with him one day, and being very merry tog^^ber, I 
showed some little inclination to go with hiin ; and 
he pressed me and my partner very hard, and with t 
areat many persuasions, to consent. *' Why» Patb« 
Simon," says my partner, <<should you desire onr 
Company so much ? you know we are heretics, and 
you do not love us, nor cannot keep us Company with 
any pleasure." — ** O," says he, ** you may perhaps be 
good Catholics in time : my business here is to con« 
vert heathens, and who knows but I may conv^t 
you too?" — ** Very well, Father," said I, '< so you 
will preach to us all the way ?" — " I will not b« 
troublesoiue to you," says he; *' our religion doei 
not diyest us of good manners : besides, we are heie 
like countrymen ; and so we are, compared to tbt 
place we are in ; and if you are Hugonots, and I ft 
Catholic, we may all be Christians at last ; at leastt 
we are all gentlemen, and we may converse so, with* 
out being uneasy to one another." I liked this pari 
of bis discourse very well, and it began to put me ia 
mind of my priest that I had left in the Brazils ; bot 
this Father Simon did not come up to his character bj 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 235 

a great deal ; for though Fathec Simon had no ap- 
pearance of a criminal levity in him neither, yet he 
Bad not that fund of Christian zeal, strict piety, and 
sincere afiection to religion, that my other good eccle- 
siastic had. 

But to leave him a little, though he never left us, nor 
soliciting us to go with him ; we had something eise be-^ 
fbre US at first, for we had all this while our ship and 
cur merchandise to dispose of , and we began to be yery 
doubtful what we should do, for we were now in a 
place of rery little business ; and once l was about to 
Tenture to saii for the river of Kilam, and the city of 
Naoquin ; but Providence seemed now more visibly^ 
as I thoüght, Üian ever, to concern itself in our 
affairs ; and I was encouraged, from this Tery time^ 
to think I should one way or other get out of this en- 
tangled circumstance, and be brought home to myown 
eountry i^ain, though I had not the least view of the 
maaner. Providence, I say, began here to clear up 
otnr way a little : and the first thing that offered was, 
that our old Portuguese pilot brought a Japan mer* 
chant to us, who inquired what goods we had ; and» 
in the first place, he bought all our opium, and gave 
QS a yery good price for it, paying us in gold by 
weight, some in small pieces of tbeir own eoin, and 
aome in small wedges, of about ten or eleven ounces 
each. While we were dealing with him for our opium, it 
etüoie into my head that he might perhaps deal for the 
ship too, and I ordered the interpreter to propose it lo 
him : he shrunk up his Shoulders at it, when it was 
first proposed to him ; but in a few days after he came 
to me, with one of the missionary prieäts for his in* 
terpreter, and told me had a proposal to make to me, 
which was this : — he had bought a great quantity of 
goodii of US, when he had no thoughts or proposals 
nade to him of buying the ship ; and that, therefore» 
he had not rooney enough to pay for the ship : but if I 
would let the same men who were in the ship nayigata 



236 LIFE AND ADVENTURBS 

her, he would hire the ship to go to Japan ; and 
would send them from thence to the Philippine 
islands with another loading, whieh he would pay the 
freight 6f before they went from Japan ; and that at 
their return he would buy the ship. I began to listen 
to his proposal, and so eager did my head still run on 
rambling, that I could not but begin to entertain a 
notion of going myself with him, and so to sail from 
the Philippine islands away to the South Seas ; ac- 
cordingly, I asked the Japanese merchant if he would 
not hire us to the Philippine islands, and discharge us 
there. He said no, he could not do that, for then he 
could not haye the return of his cargo ; but he would 
discharge us iu Japan, at the ship's return. Well, 
still I was for taking him at that proposal, and goins 
myself; but my partner, wiser than myself, persuadea 
me from it, representing the dangers, as well of the 
seas as of the Japanese, who are a false, cruel, and 
treacherous people; likewise those of the Spaniards 
at the PhilippineS; more false, cruel^ and treacherous, 
than they. 

But to bring this long turn of our affairs to a con- 
dusion : the first thing we had to do was, to consult 
with the captain of the ship, and with his men, and 
know if they were willing to go to Japan : and while 
I was doing this, the young man whom my nephew 
had left with me as my companion for my travels, 
came to me, and told me that he thought that voyage 
promised very fair, and that there was a great prospect 
of advantage, and he would be very glad if I under- 
took it ; but that if I would not, and would give him 
leave, he would go as a merchant, or how I pleased 
to Order him ; that if ever he came to England, and I 
was there and alive, he would render me a faithful 
account of his success, which should be as much mine 
as I pleased. I was really loath to part with him; 
but considering the prospect of advantage, which 
really was considerable, and that he was a young fei- 



t)F ROBINSON CRUSOE; 1237 

low as likely to do well in it as any I knew, I in-* 
clined to let him go ; but I told him I would consult 
my partner, and give him an answer the next day. 
My partner and I discoursed about it, and my part- 
ner made a most generous offer : '* You know it has 
been an unlucky ship," said he, ^' and we both re- 
solve not to go to sea in it again ; if your Steward (so 
he called my man) will venture the voyage, I will 
lejave my share of the vessel to him, and let him make 
the best of it; and if we live to meet in England, 
and he meets with success abroad, he shall account 
for one half of the profits of the ship's freight to us ; 
the other shall be his own." 

If my partner, who was no way concerned with my 

iroung man, made him such an ofier, I could do no 
ess than offer him the same : and all the ship's Com- 
pany being willing to go with him, we made over half 
the ship to him in proper ty, and took a writing from 
him, obliging him to account for the other; and away 
he went to Japan. The Japan merchant proved a very 
punctual honest man to him ; protected him at Japan, 
and got him a licence to come on shore, which the 
Europeans in general have not lately obtained ; paid 
him his freight very punctually ; sent him to the Phi- 
lippines, loaded with Japan and China wares, and a 
supercargo of their own, who, trafficking with the 
Spaniards, brought back European goods again, and a 
great quantity of cloves and other spices ; and there 
he was not only paid his freight very well, and at a 
very good price, but not being willing to seil the ship 
then, the merchant furnished him goods on his own 
Qccount ; and with some money, and some spices of 
hb own which he brought with him, he went back to 
the Manillas to the Spaniards, where he sold his cargo 
very well. Here, having got a good acquaintance at 
Manilla, he got his ship made a free ship ; and the 
l^overnor of Manilla hired him to go to Acapulco in 
America, on the coast of Mexico, and gave him a li* 



2i6 UFB AND ADVENTURE8 

cence to land there, and to travel to Mexico, and to 
pass in any Spanish ship to Europe witb all his men. 
Ue made the voyage to AcapuJco very happily, and 
there he sold his ship ; and hiäving there also obtained 
allowance to travel by land to Porto Bello, he found 
means, somehow or other^to get to Jamaica» with all his 
' treasure ; and about eight years after came to England 
exceeding rieh, of which I shall take notice in its place: 
in the mean time, I return to our particular aflraurs. 

Being now to part with the ship and ship's com« 

pany, it came before us, of course, to coneider what 

recompense we should give to Üie two men that 

gave US such timely notice of the design against in 

in the river Cambodia. The truth was, they had 

done US a very considerable Service, and deserved weil 

at our hands ; though, by the way, they were a cou« 

ple of rogues too ; for as they beüeved the story of 

our being pirates, and that we had really run away 

with the ship, they came down to us not only to 

betray the design that was formed against us, but to 

go to sea with us as pirates ; and one of them confe^sed 

afterwards that nothing eise but the hopes of going 

a rogueing brought them to do it : however, the ser* 

vice they did us was not the less ; and, therefore, as I 

had promised to be grateful to them, I first ordered 

the money to be paid them which they said was due 

to them on board their respective ships; over and 

above that, I gave each of them a small sum of money 

in gold, which contented them very well; then I 

made the Englishman gunner in the ship, the gunner 

being now made second mate and purser ; the Dutch- 

man I made boatswain ; so they were both very well 

pleased, and proved very serviceable, being both able 

seamen and very stout fellows. 

We were now on shore in China : if I thought my- 
self banisbed and remote from my own country at 
Bengal, where I had many ways to get home for my 
money, what could I think of myself now, wben I 



OF ROBINSON GRU50B« 2dll 

got aboat a thousand leagues farther off from home» 
a&d perfectly destitute of all manner of prospect of 
return ? AU we had for it was this; tliat in about four 
months time there was to be aoother fair at the place 
where we were, and then we might be able to purchase 
all sorts of the manufactures of the country, and withal 
might possibly find some Chinese junks or vessels froni 
Tonquin, that would be to be sold, and would carry 
US and our goods whither we pleased. This I liked 
▼ery well, and resolved to wait ; besides, as our par- 
ticular persona were not obnoxious, so if any English 
or Dutch ships came thither, perhaps weinight have 
aa opportunity to load our goods, and get passage to 
some other place in India, nearer home. On these 
hopes we resolved to continue here; but, to divert 
oarselves, we took two or three journeys into the 
oountry. First, we went ten days journey, to the 
city of Nanquin, a city well worth seeing, indeed * 
they ray it has a million of people in it : it is regularly 
built, the streets all exactly straight, and cross one 
anöther in direct lines, which gives the figure of il 
great ad van tage. But when I came to compare the 
miserable people of these countries witfa ours, their 
fabrics, their manner of living, their govemment, their 
religion, their wealth, and their glory, as some call it, 
I must confess that I scarcely think it worth my wfaile 
to mentiou them here. It is very observable, that we 
wonder at the grandeur, the riches, the pomp, the cere- 
moaies, the government, the manufactures, the com- 
merce, and conduct of these people ; not that it is to 
be wondered at, or, indeed, in the least to be regarded, 
but because having a true notion of the barbarity of 
those countries, the rudeness and the ignorance thaC 
prevails there, we do not expect to find any such thing 
so far off. Otherwise, what are their buildings to the 
pslaces and royal buildings of Europe ? What their 
trade to the universal commerce of England, Holland, 
Fnuice, and Spain ? What are their cities to ours, for 



240 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

wealth, strength, gaiety of apparel, rieh fumitore, and 
infinite variety ? What are their ports, supplied with 
a few junks and barks, to our navigation, our merehant 
fleets, our large and powerful navies? Our city of 
London has more trade than half their mighty empiie : 
one English, Dutch, or French man of war of eighty 
guns, would be able to fight almost all the shipping 
belonging to China : but the greatness of their wealth, 
their trade, the power of their govemmenty and tbe 
strength of their armies, may be a little surprising to 
US« because, as I haye said, eonsidering them as a bar- 
barous nation of pagans, little better than sayages, wp 
did not expect such things among them : and this, in- 
deed, is the advantage with which all their greatne» 
and power is represented to us; otherwise, it is ia 
itself nothing at all ; for what I have said of their 
ships may be said of their armies and troops : all tfae 
forees of their empire, though they were tö bring twö 
millions of men into the field together, would be abk 
to do nothing but ruin the country, and starve theo- 
selves, if they were to besiege a strong town in Flan- 
ders, or to fight a disciplined army : one good line of 
G erman cuirassiers, or of French cavalry , might wift- 
stand all the horse of China ; a million of their foot 
could not stand before one embattled body of our in- 
fantry, posted so as not to be surrounded, though they 
were not to Jbe one to twenty in number ; nay, I do 
not boast if I say that thirty thousand G erman or 
English foot, and ten thousand horse, well managed, 
could defeat all the forees of China ; and so of our 
fortitied towns, and of the art of our engineers in a»- 
saulting and dcfending towns ; there is not a fortified 
town in China could hold out one month against tbe 
batteries and attacks of an European army ; and, at 
the same time, all the armies of China could never 
take such a town as Dunkirk, provided it was not 
starvcd ; no, not in a ten years siege. They have 
firc-armsy it is true, but they are awkward and uncdr« 



"OV ROBINSON CRUSOE« 24t 

laiii in their going off; and their powder has but littld 
Btrength. Their armies are badly disciplined, and want 
Bkill to attacky or temper to retreat ; and, therefore, I 
must confes8> it seemed stränge to me, when I came 
homey and heard our people say such fine things of 
the power» glory, magnificence, and trade of the Chi- 
nete ; because, as f ar as I saw, they appeared to be a 
(sontemptible herd or crowd of ignorant sordid slavesi 
subjected to a government qualified only to rule such 
a people : and were not its distance inconceivably great 
from Muscovy, and the Muscovite empire in a manner 
%s rüde» impotent, and ill-governed as they, the Czar 
of Muscovy might with ease drive them all out of their 
country, and conquer them in one campaign : and had 
the Csar (who is now a growing prince) fallen this 
way, instead of attacking the warlike Swedes, and 
eqiudly improved himself in the art öf war, as they say 
he has done ; and if none of the powers of £urope had 
eoFied or interrupted him, he might by this time have 
been emperor of China, instead of being beaten by the 
king of S weden at Narva, when the latter was not one 
to nx in number. As their strength and their gran-» 
ctour» so their navigation, commerce, and husbandry, 
U yery imperfect, compared to the same things in £u-> 
rope: also in their knowledge, their learning, and 
in their skill in the sciences, they are either very 
awkward or defective, though they have globes and 
«pheres, and a smattering of the mathematics, and think 
they know more than all the world besides ; but they 
know little of the motions of the heavenly bodies : 
and so grossly and absurdly ignorant are their common 
people, that when the sun is eclipsed, they think a 
great dragon has assaulted it, and is going to run away 
with it ; and they fall a clattering with all the drums 
and kettles in the country, to fright the monster away, 
just as we do to hive a swarm of bees. 

Ab this is the only excursion of the kind which I 
have mad^ in all tho accounts I baye given of my 

VOL. II. <^ 



S4S LIFE AMD ADVENTVREB 

travels» so I shall make no more such ; it ia none ef 
my business, nor any part of my design ; but to give 
"^ an account of my own adventures through a lifo of 
inimitable wanderings, and a long yariety of cfaanges» 
which, perhapsy few that come after me will hkie 
beard the like of : I shall therefore say yery Utile aS 
all the mighty places, desert countries, and numerow 
people I have yet to pass through» more tban relates 
to my own story, and which my concem among thea 
will make necessary. 

I was nowy as near as I can compute, in the heart 
of China, about thirty degrees north of the line» for 
we were returned from Nanquin : I had, indeed, i 
mind to see the city of Pekin» which I had heard 
so much ofy and Father Simon importuned me daily 
to do it. At length bis time of going away beiaf 
sei, and the other missionary who was to go with hia 
being arrived from Macao, it was necessary that we 
should resolve either to go or not ; ao I teienei 
bim to my partner, and left it whoUy to bis cfaoice, 
who at lengtb resolved it in the affirmative, and we 
prepared for our journey. We set out with very good 
adyantage, as to finding the way, for we got lesLYe to 
travel in the retinue of one of their mandarins^.a kind 
of yiceroy or principal magistrate in the proYioce 
where they reside, and who take great state on them, 
travelling with great attendance, and with great ho- 
mage from the people, who are sometimes greatly im- 
poverished by them, being obliged to furnish prori- 
sions for them and all their attendants in their joumeys. 
That which I particularly observed, as to our trayd-* 
ling with bis baggage, was this, that tbougb we re- 
ceived sufficient provisions both for ourselves and our 
borses from the country, as belonging to the mandarin, 
yet we were obliged to pay for every thing we had, 
after the market price of the country, and the manda- 
rin's Steward collected it duly from us ; so that our 
trayelling in the retinue of the mandarin, though it 



OF BomiaoH cmxrsoK. MS 



a verj greift kmdbe» to ■§, was not siicli m 
Bughtj &TOW w liini, bvft w«s a gieat ad^mnlage lo 
hiniy ooBsideriBg liiere were above thirty odier peoph 
timfelied in ti^ sune ■mhibw besides us, uamr tke 
protBctk» of his letiaiie; for ti^ ooiuitry luniislMd 
all the provisioBs for nodüiig lo him, and yet he took 
«Mir aMNiey for theoi. 

We were twerntj-üwe days traTeUing to Pekin, 
Ihroagh a oouatry infiaitely popolooa, bat I tbiak 
badly coltiTated; the busbaadry, tbe eooaomy, aad 
tiie way of hwing nuserable, Äoagh they boBst so 
anich of tbe iadaatry of tbe people ; I say miaerable, 
if oompared with our own, bot not so to these poor 
wrelebes» wbo know no otber. Tbe pride of tbe 

Cople 18 infinitely great, and exceeded by notbing 
t tbeir poyerty, in some parts, wbicb adds to tbat 
vUcb I OEtll tbeir mis^; aod I mast needs tbiak 
the naked saTages of Ammca liye mucb more bappy 
than the poorer «ort of tbese, because as they have 
ftothiag, so they desire notbing; wbereas tbese are 
proad and insolent, and in the main are in many parts 
■lere beggars and dnidges ; tbeir ostentation is inex- 
presnble ; and» if they can, they love to keep multi- 
tudes of servants or slaves, whicb is to the last degree 
ridiculouSy as well aa the contempt of all the world 
Vat themselves. 

I must confess, I travelled more pleasantly after- 
wards in the deserts and vast wildernesses of Grand 
Tartary than here ; and yet the roads here are well 
pa?ed and well kept, and yery convenient for tra» 
Tellers : but nothing was more awkward to me than 
to see such a haughty, imperious» insolent people» 
in the midst of the grossest simpliciW and ignorance ; 
and my friend Father Simon and I used to be very 
merry on Chese occasions» to see the beggarly pride of 
tbese people : for example» Coming by the house of 
a conatry gantUman» as Father Simon called hiro, 
abpiit ttn leagoea off the city of Nanqnin, we had 



244 LIFE AND ADVBNTÜRBS 

first of all the honour to ride with the mBSt» Df 'OKI 
bouse about two miles ; the state he rode in was a 
perfect Don Quixotism, being a mixture of pomp and 
poverty. His habit was very proper for a sear»- 
mouch, or merry*andrew, being a dirty calioo» with 
hanging-sleevesy tasseis, and cuts and slasbes almost 
on every side ; it covered a taffety vest, as greasy as 
a butcher's, and which testified that his honour mvai 
be a most exquisite sloven. His horse was but a poor, 
^tatved, hobbling creature, and he had two slaves foi« 
lowed him on foot to drive the poor creature along; 
be had a whip in his band, and he belaboured the 
beast as fast about the head as his slaves did about 
the tail ; and thus he rode by us, with about ten or 
twelye servants, going from the city to his country 
seat, about half a league before us. We travelled oi 
gently, but this figure of a gentleman rode away be> 
fore US, and as we stopped at a yillage about ao how 
to refresh us, when we came by the country seat of 
this great man, we saw him in a little place before 
his door, eating his repast. It was a kind of a garden, 
but he was easy to be seen ; and we were giyen to 
understand that the more we looked at him the bettet 
he would be pleased. He sat under a tree, sometbing 
like the palmetto, which effectually shaded him oyer 
the head, and on the south side ; but under the tree 
was also placed a large umbrella, which made that 
part look well enough ; he sat lolling back in a great 
elbow-chair, being a heavy corpulent man, and had 
bis meat brought him by two women slaves ; be had 
two more, one of which fed the squire with a spooa, 
and the other held the dish with one band, and scraped 
off what he let fall on his worship's beard and taffety 
vest. 

Thus leaving the poor wretch to please bimself whh 
our looking at him, as if we admired his pomp, thougfa 
we really pitied and contemned him, we pursued our 
joumey ; only Father Simon had the curiosity to -stay 



X>S ROBINSON CKÜSOfi« ''- 

to inform himself what dainties the country justice had 
to feM on in all his state, which he had the honour to 
laste of, and which was, I think, a mess of boiled 
rice» 'with. a great piece of garlic in it, and a little bag 
$Ued with green pepper, and another plant which. they 
l^ve there, something like cur ginger, but smelling 
like musk» and tasting like mustard ; all this was put 
together, and a small piece of . lean mutton boiled-in 
it, and this was his worship's repast : four or üve ser«« 
vants Bore attended at a distance, who, we supposed» 
were to eat of the same after their master. 

As for our mandarin with whöm we trayelled, h^ 
was respected as a king, surrounded always with his 
gentlemen, and attended in all his appearances with 
auch pomp, that I saw little of him but at a distance ; 
iMit this I observed, that there was not a horse in hi^ 
lettnue but that our carriers' packhorses in England 
aeemed to me to look niuch better ; though it was 
hard to judge rightly, for they were so covered with 
^iiipage, mantles, trappings, &c. that we could scarce 
aee any thing but their feet and their heads as they 
wentaloDg. 

. I was now light-hearted, and all my trouble anct 
perplexity that I have given an account of being 
oretf 1 had no anxious thought about me, which 
made this joumey the pleasanter to me ; nor had I 
any iü accident attended me, only in passing or 
foraing a small river my horse feil, and made ma 
free of the country, as they call it, that is to say, 
threw me in ; the place was not deep, but it wetted 
me all over. I mention it, because it spoiled my 
pocket-book, wherein I had set down the names of 
several people and places which I had occasion to 
remember, and which, not taking due care of, the 
leaves rotted, and the words were never after to be 
read, to my great loss as to the names of some places 
X toached at in this joumey, 
., At leogth we arrived at Pekin: I bad nobody 



t46 UFB ÄND ADVBNTURBf 

with me but tbe yooth wbom my nephew the capteiii 
had giyen me to attend me m a serrant, and who 
proved yery trusty and diligent ; and my partner bad 
nobody witb bim but one serranty wbo was m kin»' 
man. As for tbe Portuguese pilot, be beinf^ denroas 
to see tbe court, we bore his cbarges for bis companti 
and to ose bim as an interpretery for be understood tm 
langaage of tbe country» and spoke |pod Frendi» and 
a little Englisb ; and, indeed, tbis old man was i 
most nseful implement to ns every wbere ; for we had 
not been above a week at Pekin, wben he Game 
laugbing : *' Ab, Seignior Inglese/' says be, " I bare 
Bometbing to teil you will make yonr heart glad."«— 
" My heart glad !'' 8a3rs I ; ** wbat can that be? I 
don't know any thing in tbis country can eithet gife 
me joy or grief, to any great degree." — •• Yes, yes," 
aaid the old man, in broken EnglisAi, ** make yoa 
glad, me sorry."— " Wby," said I, " will it nake 
you sorry V — ** Because," said he, " you have broaght 
me bere twenty-fiye days joumey, and will leave mt 
to go back alone, and whicb way sball I get to my 
port afterwards without a ship, without a horse, wiüi^ 
out pecune?" so be called money, being bis broken 
Latin, of whicb he had abundance to make us merry 
with. In Short, he told us there was a great caraTsa 
of Muscovite and Polish merchants in tbe city, pre- 
paring to set out on their joumey by land to InaB* 
covy, within four or five weeks, and he was sure we 
would take the opportunity to go witb them, and 
leaye bim behind, to go back alone. 

I confess I was greatly surprised witb tbis good 
news, and had scarce power to speak to bim for sone 
time ; but at last I turned to bim, ^* How do yon know 
this?" said I : "are you sure it is true?" — ** Yes,*' 
says be ; ''I met tbis moming in the street an old ac- 
quaintance of mine, an Armenian, who is among then ; 
be came last from Astracan, and was designing to ga 
to Tonquin> where I förmerly knew bim, Imt has-al- 



OV ROBINSON CRUSOE. 247 

tered bis mind, and is now resolved to go with thft 
caniTan to Moscow» and so down the river Wolga to 
Astracaa." — ** Well, Seignior," says I, " do not be 
iineasy about being left to go back alone ; if tbis be a 
method for my return to England, it sball be your fault 
if you go back to Macao at all." We then went to 
cimsult togetber what was to be done ; and I asked 
■iY partner what he thought of the piiot's news, and 
wbrober it would suit with bis aftairs ? He told nie 
he would do just as I would ; for he had settled all bis 
affairs so well at Bengal, aod left bis effects in such 
good hands, that as we had made a good voyage here, 
if he could vest it in China silks, wrought and raw, 
such as mtght be worth the carriage, he would be con<- 
tent to go to England, and then make bis voyage back 
to Bengal by the Gompany's ships. 

Haviilg resolved on tbis, we agreed that if our Por* 
tugoese pilot would go with us we would bear bis 
eharges to Moscow, or to England, if he pleased ; nor, 
indeed, were we to be esteemed over generous in that 
Aeither, if we had not rewarded bim farther, the ser* 
▼ioe he had done us being really worth more than that : 
for he had not only been a pilot to us at sea, but he 
liad been like a broker for us on shore ; and bis pro- 
euring for us the Japan merchant was some hundreds 
oC pounds in our pockets. So we consuited together 
mbout it, and being ^illing to gratify bim, which was 
trat doing bim justice, and very willing also to have 
him with us besides, for he was a most necessary man 
on all occasions, we agreed to give him a quantity of 
eoined gold, which, as I compujte it, came to about 
ooe hundred and seventy-fiye pounds Sterling, between 
«8, and to bear all his eharges, both for himself and 
liorse, except only a horse to carry his goods. Having 
Mttled tbis between ourselves, we called bim to let him 
know what we had resolved. I told him he had com« 

flained of our being like to let bim go back alone, and 
was Bow to toll hin we were resoWed he jhotild 



248 UFB ANB ADVBNTURES 

Aot go back at all ; that as we had resolyed tö go to 
£urope with the caravan, we resolved also he ahould 
go with US ; aod that we called bim to know bis mind. 
He shook bis bead, and said, it was a long journey, 
and he had no pecune to carry bim thitber, or to sub* 
sist himself when he came there. We told bim we be« 
lieved it was so, and tberefore we had resolved to do 
something for bim that should let bim see bow sensible 
we were of the Service he had done us, and also bow 
agreeable he was to us ; and then I told bim what we 
had resolved to give bim bere, which he might lay out 
as we would do our own ; and that as for bis cbargesi 
if he would go with us, we would sei bim safe oq shore 
^life and casualties excepted) either in Muscovy or 
England, which he would, at our own Charge, except 
only the carriage of bis goods. He received tbe pro« 
posal like a man transported, and told us he would go 
with US over tbe whole world ; and so we all prepared 
for our journey. However, as it was with us, so it 
was with the other merchants ; they had many tbings 
to do ; and instead of being ready in five weeks, it 
was four months and some days before all tbings w^e 
got together. 

It was the beginning of February, our style, when 
we set out from Pekin. My partner and tbe cid pilot 
had gone express back to the port where we had first 
put in, to dispose of some goods which we had left 
there ; and I, with a Chinese merchant whom I bad 
some knowledge of at Nanquin, and wbo came to 
Pekin on his own affairs, went to Nanquin, where I 
bought ninety pieces of fine damask, with about two 
hundred pieces of other very fine silks of several sorts, 
some mixed with gold, and had all these brought to 
Pekin against my partner's return ; besides tbis, we 
bought a very large quantity of raw silk, and some 
other goods, our cargo amounting, in these goods only, 
to about three thousand five hundred pounds Sterling ; 
whichi together with tea^ and some .fine calicoesy.and 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 240t 

jthree camela loads of nutmegs and cloves, loaded in 
all eighteen cameis for cur share, besides those vre 
rode on; which, with two or three spare horses loaded 
with provisions, made us, in short, twenty-six cameis 
and horses in our retinue. 

The Company was very great, and as near as I can 
iremember, made between three and four hundred 
tiorse, and upwards of one hundred and twenty men^ 
▼ery well armed, and provided for all events : for as 
the eastern caravans are subject to be attacked by the 
Arabs» so are these* by the Tartars ; but they are not 
altogether so dangerous as the Arabs^ nor so barba-» 
vous when they prevail. 

The Company consisted of people of several na« 
tions ; but there were above sixty of them merchants 
or inhabitants of Moscow, though of them some were 
Liyonians; and, to our particular satisfaction^ five 
of them were Scots^ who appeared also to be men 
of great experience in business, and of very good sub-» 
stance. 

When we had travelled one day's joumey, the 
gttides, who were five in number, called all the gen» 
Uemen and merchants, that is to say, all the passen-* 
gers except the servants, to a great Council, as they 
called it. At this Council every one deposited a cer- 
tain quantity of money to a common stock, for the 
neoessary expense of buying forage on the way, where 
it was not otherwise to be had, and for satisfying the ' 
guidesy getting horses, and the like : and here they 
oonstituted the journey, as they call it, Yiz. they 
named captains and officers to draw us all up, and 
give the word of command, in case of an attack, and 
give every one their turn of command ; nor was this 
forming us into order any more than what we found 
needful on the way, as shall be observed. 

The road all on this side of the country is very po-« 
pulousy and is füll of potters and earth makers, that ia 
to lay, peopla that temper the earth for the China 



töO . LIFB AKD ADTBNTÜRE8 

wäre ; and as I was Coming along, our Portugal piloi, 
who had always something or other to say to make ob 
metry, came sneering to me, and toid me he woold 
sfaow me the greatest rarity in all the country» and 
that I should have this to say of China» afker all the 
ill-humoured things I had saia of it, that I had aeen 
one thing which was not to be seen in all the wwld 
beside. I was yery importunate to know what it was: 
at last he told me it was a gentleman's hoose bnilt 
with China wäre. " Well," says I, ** are not the 
inaterials of their buildings the product of their owa 
oountry, and so it is all China wäre, is it not?'''— 
^* No, no," says he, ** I mean it is a house all made 
of China wäre, such as you call it in England, of as it 
iscalled in our country, porcelain." — " Well/* saysi, 
*' such a thing may be ; how big is it ? Can we carry 
it in a box on a camel ? If we can, we will buy it 
— *' On a camel V* says the old pilot, holding up both 
his hands ; ** why there is a famity of thirty peopk 
lives in it/* 

I was then curious, indeed, to see it ; and when I 
came to it, it was nothing but this : it was a timber 
house, or a house built, as we call it in England, with 
lath and plaster; but all this plastering vras really 
China wäre, that is to say, it was plastered with the 
earth that makes China wäre. The outside, which the 
sun shone bot on, was glazed, and looked very weH, 
perfectly white, and painted with blue figures^ as the 
large China wäre in England is painted, and hard as if 
it had been burned. As to the inside, all the wall», 
instead of wainscot, were lined with hardened and 
painted tiles, like the little Square tiles we call galley- 
tiles in England, all made of the finest China, and 
the figures exceeding fine, indeed, with extraordinaiy 
variety of colours, mixed with gold, many tiles ma* 
king but one figure, but joined so artincially, the 
mortar being made of the same earth, that it was yeiy 
hard to see where the tiles. met. The fioora of Che 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 261 

roomü werö of the same composition, and as hard m 
the eaithen Soors we have in use in several parts of 
£ngland; as hard as stone» and smooth» biit not 
bfurned and painted, except some smaller rooms, lik« 
dosets, wluch were all as it were paved with the same 
tile : the eeiling» and all the plastering work in the 
whole house, were of the same earth ; and, after all, 
tiie roof was covered with tiles of the same, but of a 
deep shining btack. This was a China warehouse, in^ 
deed, truly and literally to be called so, and had I 
Qotbeen on the journey, I could haye stayed some 
days to see and examine the partieulars of it. They 
tokl nie there were fountains and fish-ponds in the 
gafden^ all paved on the bottom and sides with the 
same ; and fine statues set up in rows on the walks, 
eatirely formed of the porcelain earth, and burned 
wliole. 

As this is one of the singularities of China, so they 
■lay be allowed to excel in it ; but I am very sure 
they excel in their aecounts of it; for they told me 
^ach incredible things of their Performance in crockery 
wäre, for such it is, that I care not to relate, as 
knowing it could not be true. They told me, in par- 
ticvlar, of one workman that made a ship with all its 
tackle, and masts and sails, in earthenware, big enough 
to carry fifty men. If they had told me he launched 
ilf and made a royage to Japan in it, I might have 
Said something to it, indeed ; but as it was, I knew 
tbe whole of the story, which was, in short, asking 
pardon for the word, that the fellow lied : so I smiled» 
aad Said nothing to it. 

This odd sight kept me two hours behind the can^ 
Tan, for which the leader of it for the day fined me 
about the value of three Shillings ; and told me, if it 
had been three days journey without the wall, as it 
was three days withm, he must haye fined me fonr 
times as much, and made me ask pardon the uext 
WUBcil-day: I promised to be moie orderly; aad^ 



252 LIFB ANB ADVENTUREd 

indeed, I found afterwards the Orders made for keep^ 
ing all together were absoiutely necessary for oui^ 
common safety. 

• In two days more we passed the great China wall, 
made for a foriification against the Tartars; and a 
very great work it is, going over hüls and mountains 
in an endiess track» where the rocks are impassable, 
and the precipices such as no enemy couid possibly 
Qoter, or indeed climb up, or where, if they did, no 
wall could hinder them. They teil us its length is 
near a thousand English miles, but that the country is 
five hundred in a straight measured line, which tbe 
wall bounds, without measuring the windings and 
tumings it takes : it is about four fathoms high, and 
as many thick in some places. 

. I stood still an hour , or thereabouts, without trespass* 
ing our Orders, (for so long the caravan was in passinj^ 
the gate,) to look at it on every side, near and far off, 
I mean what was within my view ; and the guido of our 
Caravan, who had been extolling it for the wonder of 
the World, was mighty eager to hear my opinion of it. 
I told him it was a most excellent thing to keep out 
the Tartars ; which he happened not to understand as 
I meant it, and so took it for a compliment ; but tbe 
old pilot laughed : '' O, Seignior Inglese,'' says he, 
" you speak in colours." — " In colours!" said I; 
** what do you mean by that?" — " Why you speak 
what looks white this way, and black that way ; gay 
one way, and dull another. You teil him it is a good 
wall to keep out Tartars ; you teil me by that it b 
good for nothin^ eise but to keep out Tartars. I un- 
derstand you, Seignior Inglese; I understand you; 
but Seignior Chinese understood you bis own way."— 
•< Well," says I, " Seignior, do you think it would 
stand out an army of our country people, with a good* 
train of artillery ; or our engineers, with two compa- 
nies of miners ? Would not they batter it down in 
ten days, that an army might enter in battalia; or 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE,* 25$ 

blot7 it up in the air, foundation and all, that there 
ghould be no sign of it left?" — " Ay, ay," says he; 
** I know that." The Chinese wanted mightily to 
know what I said, and I gave him leave to teil bim a 
few days after, for we were then almost out of their 
Gountry» and he was to leave us in a little time after 
this ; but when he knew what I said, he was dumb 
all tbe rest of the way, and we heard no more of hia 
fine Story of the Chinese power and greatness while 
be stayed. 

After we passed this mighty nothing, called a wall/ 
ftometbing like the Picts' wall, so famous in Northum- 
berbtnd, built by the Romans, we began to find the 
country thinly inhabited, and the people rather con- 
fined to live in fortified towns and cities, as being sub« 
ject to the inroads and depredations of the Tartars, 
wbo rob in great armies, and therefore are not to be 
resisted by the naked inhabitants of an open country. 
And here I began to find the neoessity of keeping tow 
gether in a caravan aswe trayelled, for we sawse?6ral 
troops of Tartars roving about ; but when I came to 
see them distinctly, I wondered more that the Chinese 
empire could be conquered by such contemptible fei- 
lows ; for they are a mere horde of wild fellows, keep- 
ing no Order, and understanding no discipline or 
manner of fight. Their horses are poor lean creatures, 
taught nothing, and fit for nothing ; and this we foutid 
the first day we saw them, which was after we entered 
tbe wilder part of the country. Our leäder for the day 
gave leave for abput sixteen of us to go a hunting, as 
they call it, and what was this but hunting of sheep ! 
however, it may be called hunting too, for the crea- 
tures are tbe wildest and swiftest of foot that evtr I 
saw of their kiud ; only they will not run a great way, 
and you are sure of sport when you begin the chase, 
for they appear generally thirty or forty in a fiock, 
aod, like true sheep, always keep together wheii 

tbey.flyt 



254 LTFE AKD ADVSNTURES 

In pursuit of this odd sort of p;aiiie, it was our ha^ 
to meet with about forty Tartars ; wheth» thej wen 
hunting mutton- as we were, or wheUier they looked 
for anoiher kind of prey, we knew not ; but as soon ■§ 
they saw us, one of them blew a- kind of hom very 
loud, but with a barbarous sound that I had never 
heard before, and, by the way, never care to hetr 
again ; we all supposed this was to call their firiends 
about them, and so it was ; for in less than ten minulsi 
a troop of forty or fifty more appeared at about a aäe 
distanee ; but our work was over first, as it happened. 

One of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened 
to be amongst us, and as soon as he heard the hom he 
told US that we had nothing to do but to charge then 
immediately, without loss of time ; and drawing us up 
in a line, he asked if we were resolved. We told Im 
we were ready to foUow him ; so he rode directly to- 
wards them. They stood gazing at us like a mere 
crowd, drawn up in no order, nor showin g the face of 
any order at all ; but as soon as they saw us ad-vanoe, 
they let fly their arrows, which, however, missed in 
¥ery happily : it seems they mistook not their aim, bat 
their distanee ; for their arrows all feil a little short of 
US, but with so true an aim, that had we been aboat 
twenty yards nearer, we must have had several meii 
wounded, if not killed. 

Immediately we halted; and though it was at a 
great distanee, we fired, and sent them leaden buUets 
for wooden arrows, following our shot füll gallop, to 
fall in among them sword in band, for so our bold 
Scot that led us directed. He was, indeed, but a 
merchant, but he behaved with thatvigour and bravery 
on this oecasion, and yet with such cool courage too, 
that I never saw any man in action fitter for command. 
As soon as we came up to them, we fired our pistofe 
in their faces, and then drew; but they fled in the 
greatest confusion imaginable. The only stand any of 
them made was on our rights where three of thev 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, S5§ 

«ftood» and, by signs, called the rest to come back to 
theni» having a kind of scimitar in their hands, and 
their bows haoging to their backs. Our brave com'» 
mander, witbout asking aoy body to foUow him, gallop-f 
ed up close to theoiy and witb bis fusee knocked one 
of them off bis borse, killed tbe second witb bis pistol, 
and the third ran away; and thus ended our fight: 
Iwt we had this misfortune attending it, that all our 
mutton we had in chase got away. We had not a 
mW killed or hurt ; but as for tbe Tartars, tbere were 
abont fiye of them killed ; bow many were wounded 
we kaew not ; but this we knew, that tbe other party 
were so firightened witb tbe noise of our guns, that 
th ey m ade off, and never made any attempt on us. 

"We were all this wbile in the Chinese dominions^ 
aad therefore tbe Tartars were not so bold as after* 
wards ; but in about five days we entered a vast, great^ 
wfld desert, which beld us three days and night« 
mareh ; and we were obliged to carry our water with 
118 ia great leatbern bottles, and to encamp all night^ 
juat as I have heard they do in tbe desert of Arabia. 

I asked our guides whose domin ion this was in ; 
and they told me this was a kind of border, that might 
be called no man's land, being a part of Great Kara<^ 
kathay, or Grand Tartary ; but bowever, it was all 
reckoned as belonging to China, but tliat tbere waa 
Ro eare taken bere to preserve it from the infrQads of 
thieves, and therefore it was reckoned tbe worst de- 
sert in the whole march, though we were to go over 
tome much larger. 

In passing this wilderness, which was at first very 
firightful to me, we saw, two or three times, little par« 
ties of the Tartars, but they seemed to be on their 
own affairs, and to have no design on us : and so, like 
the man who met tbe devil, if they had nothing to say 
to US, we had nothing to say to them ; we let them 
f o. Once, however, a party of them came so near aa 
|o stand and gase at us ; whether it was to consider if 



256 LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

they should attack us or not, we knew not ; but when 
we were passed at some distance by them, ire made 8 
rear-guard of forty men, and stood ready for them, 
letting the caravan pass half a mile or thereabouts be- 
fore US : but after a while they marched off; only we 
found they saluted us with five arrows at their parting, 
one of which wounded a horse, so that it disabled him, 
and we left him the next day, poor creature, in great 
need of a good farrier : they might shoot more arrows, 
which might fall short of us, but we saw dg aore 
arrows or Tartars that time. 

We travelled near a month after this, the ways not 
being so good as at first, though still in the dominions 
of the emperor of China, but lay for the most part in 
villages, some of which were fortified, because of the 
incursions of the Tartars. When we were come to 
one of these towns, (it was about two days and 8 
halfs journey before we were to come to the city of 
Naum,) I wanted to buy a camel, of which there are 
plenty to be sold all the way on that road, and horses 
also, such as they are, because so many caravans 
Coming that way they are often wanted. The person 
that I spoke to to get me a camel, would have gone 
and fetched one for me; but I, like a fool, musthe 
officious, and go myself along with him : the place 
was about two miles out of the vi Hage, where it seems 
they kept the cameis and horses feeding under & 
guard. 

1 walked it on foot, with my old pilot and a Chi- 
nese, being very desirous of a little variety. When 
we came to the place, it was a low marshy ground, 
walled round with a stone wall, piled up dry, withont 
mortar or earth among it, like a park, with a little 
guard of Chinese soldiers at the door. Having bougfat 
a camel, and agreed for the price, I came away, and 
the Chineseman that went with me led the camel, 
when on a sudden came up five Tartars on horseback; 
two of them seized the fellow and took the caflMi 



OF ROBINSON CRU&OE. 257 

Crom him, while tbe otber three stepped up to me and 
^my old pilot, seeing us, as it were, unarmed, for I had 
Jko weapon about me but my sword, which could ill 
defend me against tbree borsemen. Tbe first tbat 
came up stopped sbort on my drawing my sword, for 
they are arrant cowards ; but a second Coming on my 
left, gatre me a blow on tbe bead, wbicb I never feit 
tili afterwards, and wondered, wben I came to myself » 
what was tbe matter» and where I was, for he laid me 
äat on tbe ground ; but my never-faiüng old pilot, 
■tbe Portuguese, (so Providence, unlooked for, directs 
deliverances from dangers wbicb to us are unforeseen) 
iiad a pislol in bis pocket, wbicb I knew notbing of, 
nor tbe Tartars neitber ; if tbey bad» I suppose tbey 
would not bave attacked us ; but cowards are always 
boldest wben tbere is no danger. Tbe old man seeing 
me down, witb a bold beart stepped üp to tbe fellow 
tbat bad Struck me, and laying bold oi bis arm witb 
one band, and puUing bim down by main force a little 
towards bim witb tbe otber, sbot bim in tbe bead, and 
laid bim dead on tbe spot. He tben immediately 
stepped up to bim wbo bad stopped us, as I said, and 
before be could come forward again, made a blow at 
him witb a scimitar wbicb be always wore, but miss- 
ing tbe man, cut bis borse in tbe side of bis bead,>cut 
one of tbe ears off by tbe root, and a great slice down 
by tbe side of bis face. Tbe poor beast, enraged witb 
the wound, was no more to be governed by bis rider, 
thougb tbe fellow sat well enougb too, but away be 
flew, and carried bim quite out of tbe pilot's reacb ; 
and at some distance rising on bis bind legs, tbrew 
idown tbe Tartar, and feil on bim. 

In this interval, tbe poor Cbinese came in wbo had 
lost the camel, but he had no weapon : however, see- 
ing the Tartar down, and bis borse fallen on bim, 
away he runs to bim, and seizing on an ugly ill- 
favored weapon he had by bis - side, sometbing like a 
po^-axe, bat not b, pole-aze either« he wrenched it 

VOL. !!• ^ 



253 l«IF£ AND ADYENTURBS 

from him, and made shift to knock his Tartariaa 
brains out with it. ' But my old man had the third 
Tartar to dei^ with stiil ; and seeing he did noi i]fv 
as be expected, nor come on to fight bim, as h» imre- 
hended, but stand stock still, the old man sloöa still 
too, and feil to work with his tackle, to efaai^ bis 
pistol again : but as soon as the Tartar saw the pbtol, 
away be scoured, and left my pilot (my champion I 
called bim afterwards) a cornfncte victory. 

By tbis tiroe I was a Utlfe reooyered ; for I thougbt 
when I first began to wake, that I had been in a sweet 
sleep ; but, as I said above, I wondered where I was, 
bow I came on tbe ground, and what was the matter ; 
but a few moments after, as sense returned, I feit pain, 
though I did not know whlere ; so I clapped my band 
to my head, and took it away bloody ; then I feit my 
head acbe ; and then, in a moment, memory returned, 
änd every thing W€U9 present to me dgain. I jumped 
on my feet instantly, and got hold of my sword, but 
no enemies in view : I found a Tartat lie dead, and 
bis horse standing very quietiy by bim : and, looking 
farther, I saw my champion and deliverer, who had 
been to see what the Chinese had done, coming back 
with his banger in his band : the old man, seeing me 
on my feet, came running to me, and embraeed me 
with a great deal of joy, being afraid before that I 
had been killed; and seeing me bloody, would see 
bow I was hurt ; but it was not much, only what we 
call a broken head ; neither did I afterwards find any 
great inconvenience from the blow, for it was weli 
again in two or three days. 

We made no great gain, however, by this victory, 
for we lost a camel and gained a horse ; but that 
which was remarkable, when we came back to the 
▼illage, the man demanded to be paid for the camel : 
I disputed it, and it was brought to a hearing before 
the Chinese judge of the place. To give bim his due, 
he acted with a great deal of prudence and impar- 



j^ 



m 









■ 



*■ 






OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 2dD 

tiality ; and, having heard both sides, he gravely asked 
the Chinese man that wßnt with me to buy tbe camel» 
wfaose servant he was ? '' I am no servant," says he^ 
" but went with the stranger." — " At whose request?" 
says the justice. *' At the stranger's request," says 
{le. ** Why then/' says the justice, ** you were the 
stranger's servant for the time ; and the camel .being 
delivered to his servant, it was delivered to him, and 
he must pay for it.-' 

I confesg the thing was so clear, that I'had not a 
Word to say : büt, admiring to see such just reason- 
ing on the consequence, and an accurate stating of 
the Gase, I paid willingly for the camel, and sent for 
another ; but, you may observe, I did not go to fetch 
it myself any more, for I had had enough of that, 

The city of Naum is a frontter of the Chinese em- 
pire ; they call it fortified, and so it is as fortilica^ 
tions go there ; for this I will venture to affirm, that 
all the Tartars in Karakathay, which, I believe, are 
some millions, could not batter down the walls with 
their bows and arrows ; but to call it strong, if it 
were attacked with cannon, would be to make ihoa% 
who understand it laugh at 3'oii. 

We wanted, as I have said, above twodaysjour- 
ney of this city, when messengers were sent expreas 
to every part of the road to teil all travellers and 
Caravans to halt tili they had a guard sent for them ; 
for that an unusual body of Tartars, making ten thon- 
Band in all, had appeared in the way^ about thirty 
miles beyond the city. 

This was very bad news to travellers; however, 
it was carefuUy done.of the governor, and we were 
▼ery glad to hear we should have a guard. Accord- 
ingly, two days after, we had two hundred soldiers 
sent US froin a garrison of the Chinese, on our left, 
and three hundred more from the city of Naum; and 
with Uiese we advanced boldly : the three hundred 
soldiers from Naum marched in our front, the two 



ieO LIFE AKD ADVENTURBS 

hundred in our rear, and our men on each side of our- 
cameis, with our baggage, and the whole carayan in 
the centre : in this order, and well prepared for batUe» 
we tbought ourselves a matcb for the whole ten thou- 
sand Mogul Tartarg, if tbey had appeared; but the 
next day, when they did appear, it was quite another 
thing. 

It was early in the morning, when, marehing from 
a well situated little town, called Changu, we had a 
river to pass, which we were obliged to ferry ; and, 
had the Tartars had any intelligeDce, then had been 
the time to have attacked us, when the caravan being 
over, the rear guard was behind; but they did not 
appear there. About three hours after, when we were 
entered od a desert of about fifteen or sixteen miles 
over, behold, by a cloud of dust they raised, we saw 
an enemy was at band ; and they were at band, in- 
deed, for they came on the spur. 

The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had 
talked so big the day before, began to stagger ; and 
the soldiers frequently looked behind them, which 
is a certain sign in a soldier that he isjust ready to 
run away. My old pilot was of my mind ; and, 
being near me, called out, ** Seignior Inglese,'' says 
he, *' those fellows must be encouraged, or they will 
ruin US all; for if the Tartars come on, they will 
never stand it." — ** I am of your mind," said I; 
" but what must be done ?" — " Done !" says . be, 
*' let fifty of our men advance, and flank them ob 
each wing, and encourage them ; and they will fight 
like brave fellows, in brave Company; but, without 
this, they will every man turn bis back." Immedi- 
ately I rode up to our leader, and told bim, who was 
exactly of our mind ; and accordingly fifty of us 
marched to the right wing, and fifty to the left, and 
the rest made a line of reserve ; and so we marched, 
leaving the last two hundred men to make a body bj 
themselves, and to guard the cameis ; only that, u 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 201 

need were, they should send a hundred men to assist 
tfae last fifty. 

In a Word, the Tartars came on, and an innume-. 
rable Company they were : how many we could not 
teil, but ten thousand, we thought, was the least : a 
party of them came on first and viewed our posture, < 
traversing the ground in the front of our line ; and, as 
we found them within gun-shot, our leader ordered the 
two wings to advance swiftly , and give them a salvo 
on each wing with their shot, which was done ; but 
they went off, and I suppose back, to give an account 
of the reception they were like to meet with ; and, in- 
deed, that salute cloyed their stomachs, for they im- 
mediately halted, stood awhile to consider of it, and 
wheeling off to the left, they gave over their d^sign» 
and Said no more to us for that time ; which was very 
agreeabie to our circumstances, which were but very 
indifferent for a battle with such a number. 

Two days after we came to the city of Naun, or 
Naum : we thanked the governor for his care of us, 
and collected to the value of a hundred crowns, or 
thereabouts, which we gave to the ^oldiers sent to 
guard US ; and here we rested one day. This is a gar- 
rison, indeedj and there were nine hundred soldiers 
kept here ; but the reason of it wa«, that formeriy the 
Muscovite frontiers lay nearer to them than they nbw 
do, the Muscovites having abandoned that part of the 
oountry, which lies from this city west for about two 
htindred miles, as desolate änd unfit for use ; and more 
especially beihg so very remote, and so difficult to 
send troops thither for its defence : for we had yet 
above two thousand miles to Muscovy, properly so 
called. 

After this we passed several great rivers, and two 
dreadful deserts ; one of which we were sixteen days 
passuig over ; and which, as I said, was to be called 
no mim's land ; and, on the 13th of April, we came to 
the firuntiers of the Muscovite dominions. I think the 



i02 LIFE AND A0VBNTÜRBS 

first town, or fortress, whichever it may be callcd, that 
belonged to the czar of Muscoyy, was calied Argana, 
being on the west side ef the river Arguna« 

I could not but discover an infinite satisfactioii that 
I was so soon arrived in, as I calied it, a Christian 
country, or, at least, in a country gOTemed by Chris- 
tians ; for though the Mnscovites do, in my opinion, 
but just deserve the name of Christians, yet such they 
pretend to be, and are very derout in their way. It 
would certainly occur to any man who travels the 
World as I have done, and who had any power of re- 
fiection, what a blessing it is to be brought into the 
World where the name of God and a Redeemer is 
known, adored, and worshipped ; and not where the 
people, given up by Heaven to strong delusions, wor- 
ship the devil, and prostrate themselves to Stocks and 
stones; worship monsters, elements, horrid-shaped 
an im als, and statues or images of monsters. Not a 
town ör city we passed through but had their pagods, 
their idols, and their temples, and ignorant people 
worshipping even the works of their own hands. Now 
we came where, at least, a face of the Christian wor- 
ship appeared ; where the knee was bowed to Jesus ; 
ana whether ignorantly or not, yet the Christian reli- 
gio n was owned, and the name of the true God was 
calied on and adored, and it made my soul rejoice to 
aee it. I saluted the brave Scoteh merchant I men- 
tioned above with my firgt acknowledgment of this ; 
and tak^ng him by the band, I said to him, '' Blessed 
be God, we are once again amongst Christians." He 
ümiled, and answered, ** Do not rejoice too soon, 
country man ; these Muscovites are but an odd sort of 
Christians ; and but for the name of it,^ you may see 
very little of the substance for some months farther of 
our journey." — " Well," says I, ** but still it is better 
than paganism and worshipping of devils." — ** Why, 
I will teil you," says he, " except the Russian sol- 
diers in the garrisons, and a few of the inhabitanti of 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ' 263 

the cities on the road, all the rest of this country, for 
above a thousand miles farther, is inhabited by the 
worst and most ignorant of pagans/' And so, indeed^» 
we found it. • 

We were now launched. into the greatest piece of 
solid earth, if I understand any thing of the surface of 
the globe, that is to be found in any part of the world; 
we had, at least, tvrelve thousand iniles to the sea, 
eastward ; two thousand to the bottom of the Baltic 
sea, westward ; and above three thousand, if we left 
th^t sea and went on west, to'the British and French 
Channels ; we had füll five thousand miles to the In- 
diao or Persian sea, south ; and about eight hundred 
to the Frozen sea, «lorth. Nay, if some people may' 
be believed, there might be no sea, north-east, tili we 
came round the pole, and consequently into the north- 
west» and so had a continent of land into America, 
Bo mortal knows where ; though I could give some 
reasons wby I believe that to be a mistake. 

As we entered into the Muscovite dominions a good 
while before we came to any considerable towns, we 
had nothing to observe there but this;. first, that all 
the rivers run to the east; as I understood by the 
Charts, which some in our caravan had with them, it 
was piain all those rivers ran into the >great river Ya- 
mour, or Gamour; which river, by the natural course 
of jt, must run into the East sea, or Chinese ocean. 
Th^ Story they teil us, that the mouth of this river is 
choked up with bulrushes of a monstrous growth, viz. 
three feet about, and twenty or thirty feet high, I 
must be allowed to say, I believe nothing of ; but, 
as its nayigation is of no use, because there is no trade 
that way, the Tartars, to whom it alone beloUgs, deal- 
ing 10 nothing but cattle ; so nobody, that ever I heard 
of, has been curious enough either to go down to the 
mouth of it in boats, or come up from the mouth of it 
in ships, as far as I can find : but this is certain,thB.t 
this river running east, in the latitude of about fifty 



264 LIFB ANJD ADVSNTUBBS 

degrees, carries a vast concourse of rivers along witb 
it, and finds an ocean to empty itself in that latiUide ; 
so we are sure of sea there< 

Some leagues to the north of this river tbere are 
several considerable rivers, whose streams run a» due 
north as the Yamour runs east, and these are all found 
to join their waters with the great river Tartarus, 
named so from the northernmost nations of the Mogul 
Tartars; who, as the Chinese say, were the first Tax* 
tars in the world ; and who, as our geographers allege, 
are the Gog and Magög mentioned in sacred sto(y. ' 
These rivers running all northvrard, as well as all the 
other rivers I am yet to speak of, make it evident that 
the northern ocean bounds the land also on that side ; 
so that it does not seem rational in the least tö think 
that the land can extend itself to join with America 
on that side, or that there is not a communication be-> 
tween the northern and eastern ocean : but of this I 
shall say no more ; it was my Observation at that time, 
and therefore I take notice of it in this place. 

We now advanced from the river Argana by easy 
and moderate journeys, and were very visibly obliged 
to the care the czar of Muscovy has taken to have 
cities and towns built in as many places as it is possi- 
ble to place them, where his soldiers keep garrison, 
something like the stationary soldiers placed by the 
Romans in the remotest countries of their empire; 
some of which that I had read of were placed in Bri- 
tain, forthe security of commerce, and for the lodging 
of travellers : and thus it was here ; for wherever we 
came, though at these towns and stations the garrisons 
and governors were Russians and professed Christians, 
yet the inhabitants were mere pagans ; sacrificing to 
idols, and worshipping the sun, moon, and stars, or 
all the host of heaven, and not only so, but were, of 
all the heathens and pagans that ever T met with, the 
most barbarous, except only that they did not eat 
men's flesh^ as our savages of America did» 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 265 

Sonie instances of this we met within the country 
between Arguna, where we enter the Museovite do- 
minions, aod a city of Tartars and Russians together, 
called Nortziousky, in which is a continued desert or 
forest, which cost us twenty days to travel over. In 
a yillage, near the last of these places, I had the curi- 
osity to go and see their way ot living, which is most 
bnitish and unsufferable : they had, I suppose, a great 
«u;rifice that day; for there stood out, on jan old 
itump of a tree, an idol naade of wood, frightful as the 
aevil ; at least, as any thing we can think of to repre- 
sent the devil can be made : it had a head not so. 
mucfa as resembling any creature that the world ever 
saw ; ears as big as goats* horns, and as high ; eyes as 
big as a crown-piece ; a nose like a crooked ram's 
hörn, and a xnouth extended four-cornered, like that 
of a Hon, with horrible teeth, hooked like aparrot's 
under-bill : it was dressed up in the iilthiest manner 
that you could suppose: its upper garment was of 
sheep-skins, with the wool outward ; a great Tartar 
bonnet on the head, with* two horns growing through 
it : it was about eight feet high, yet had no feet and 
legs, nor any other proportion of parts. 

This scarecrow was set up at the outer side of the 
▼illage ; and, when I ciime near to it, there were six-> 
teen or seventeen creatures, whether men or womea 
I could not teil, for they made no distinction by their 
habits, all lying flat on the ground round this formi* 
dable block of shapeless wood : I saw no motion 
among them any more than if they had been all logs 
of wood, like the idol, and at firist I really thought 
they had been so ; but, when I came a little nearer,- 
they Started up on their feet, and raised a howling cry 
as if it had been so many deep-mouthed hounds, and 
walked away, as if they were displeased at our dis- 
turbing them. A little way off from the idol, and at 
the door of a tent or hut, made all of sheep-cdLins and 
cow-skins dried, stood three butchers, — I thought 



2M LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

they weretuch ; when Icame nearer to them, I found 
they had long knives in their hands ; and in the mid- 
dle of the tent appeared three sheep killed, and one 
young bullock or steer. These, it seems, were sacri- 
fices to that senseless log of an idol ; the three men 
were priests belonging to it, and the seventeen pro- 
strated wretqhes were the people who brought the 
offering, and were making their prayers to that stock. 

I confess I was more nioved at their stupidity and 
brutish worship of a hobgoblin than ever I was at any 
thing in my life ; to see God's most glorious and best 
tireature, to whom he had granted so many advan- 
tages, even by creation, above the rest of the works of 
bis hands, vested with a reasonable «oul, and that 
soul adorned with faculties and capacities adapted 
both to honor bis Mdcer and be honored by him, 
sank and degenerated to a degree so very stupid as to 
prostrate itself to a frightful nothirig, a mere imagi- 
nary object, dressed up by themselves, and made ter- 
rible to themseWes by their qwn contrivance, adorned 
only with clouts and rags ; and that this should be the 
effect of mere ignorance, wrought up into hellish de- 
votion by the devil himself ; who, envying to his 
Maker the homage and adoration of his creatures, had 
deluded them into such sordid and brutish things Bi 
one would think should shock nature itself. 

But what signified a11 the astonishment and reflec- 
tion of thoughts ? thus it was, and I saw it before my 
eyes, and there was no room to wonder at it, or think 
it impossible : all my admiration turned to rage, and 
I rode up to the image or monster, call it what you 
will, and with my sword made a stroke at the bonnet 
that was on its head, and cut it in two ; and one of 
our men that was with me took hold of the sheep-skin 
that covered it, and puUed at it; when, behold, a 
most hideous outcry and howling ran through the vil- 
lage, and two or three hundred people came about my 
earsi, so that I was glad to scour for it, for we saw 



OP ROBINSON CRUSOE* 267 

some had bows and arrows ; but I resolved from that 
moment to yisit them again. 

Our Caravan rested three nights at the town, whicb 
was about four miies off, in order to provide some 
borses wbich they wanted, several of the faorses having 
been lamed and jaded with the badness of the way,. 
and long march over the last desert ; - so we had solSe 
kbiure here to put my design in execution. I com- 
municated my design to the Scotch merchant of Mos- 
oow, of whose couräge I had sufficient testimohy ; I 
told bim what I had seen, and with what indignation 
I had since thought tfaat human nature could be so 
degenerate : I told bim, ifl could get but four or iive 
meo well armed.to go with me, I was resolved to go and 
destroy that vile, abominable idol, and let them see 
that it bad no power to help itself ; and cons^qiiently 
could not be an object of worship, or to be prayed to, 
much less help them that offereti sacrifices to it. 

He taughed at me : — says he, '* Your zeal may be 
good, but what do you propose to yourself by it ?"-— 
•* Propose !" said I, ** to vindicate the honor of 
Godywhich is insulted by this devil-worship." — ** But 
how will it vindicate the honor of God," said he, 
** wbile the people will not be able to know what you 
mean by it, unless you could speak to them, and teil 
them so ? and then they will fight you, and beat you 
too, I'U assure you ; for they are desperate fellows, 
aad that especially in defence of their idolatry.** — 
** Can we not," said I, << do it in the night, and then 
leaye them the reasons and the causes in writing in 
their own language ?** — "Writing!" said he; ** why 
there is not a man in five nations of them that knows 
aiiy tbing of a letter, or how to read a word any 
way.^— ** Wretched ignorance !" said I to bim : ** how- 
ever, I have a great mind to do it ; perhaps nature 
may draw inferences from it to them, to let them see 
how brutisb they are to worship such horrid things." 
— « Look youy sir," said he, << if your zeal prompt« 



208 UPS AND ADVENTURE8 

you to it 80 wannly, you must do it ; but» in the next 
place, I would have you consider, these wild nationa 
of people are subjected by force to the czar of Hus- 
coTy's dominion ; and if yoa do this, it is ten to one 
but they will come by thousands to the g^ovenior of 
Nertsinkay, and demand satisfaction ; and if he can- 
not give them satisfiaction, it is ten to one but tbey 
reTolt ; and it will occasion a new war with all the 
Tartars in the pountry.'* 

This, I confess, put new thoughts into my^ head for 
awhile, but I harped on the same string still ; and all 
that day I was uneasy to put my project in execution. 
Towards the evening the Scotch merchant met me by 
accident in our walk about the town, and deaired to 
speak with me : ** I believe/' said he, ** I haye pat 
you off your good design : J. have been a little coa- 
cerned about it since ; for I abhor idolatry as much' 
as you can do/* — •* Truly," said I, " you have put it 
off a little, as to the execution of it, but you have not 
put it out of my thoughts ; and I believe I shall do it 
before I quit this place, though I were to be delivered 
up to them for satisfaction." — ** No, no,*' said he, 
** God forbid they sbould deliver you up to such a 
crew of monsters! they shail not do that neither; 
that would be murdering you indeed." — " Why," said 
I, " how would they use me ?" — " Use you !" said 
he, ^^ I'll teil you how they served ^ poor Kussian, 
who affronted them in their worship, just as you did, 
and whom they took prisoner, after they had lamed 
him with an arrow, that he could not run away : they 
took him and dtripped him stark naked, and set him 
on the top of the idol-monster, and stood all round 
him, and shot as many arrows into him as would stick 
over his whole body ; and then they bumt him, and 
all the arrows sticking in him, as a sacrifice to the 
idol/' — " And 'was this the same idol?*' said I. — 
" Yes," said he, " the very s^me."— " Well,** said I, 
** I will teil you a story." So I related the story of 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 269 

t 

our inen at Madaga^ar, and how they burnt and 
Backed the village there, and killed man, woman, and 
child» for their murdering one of our men, just as it is 
related before ; and I added, tbat I thought we ought 
to do so to this village. . 

He listened very attentively to tbis story; but 
when I talked of doing so to tbat village, said be, 
'^ You mistake very mucb ; it was not this village, it 
was almost a hundred miles from this^place; but it 
wasche same idol, for they carry him about in pro- 
(Session all over the country.** — ** Well," said I, •* then 
that idol ought to be punished for it; and it shall, 
U I live this night out." 

In a Word, finding me resolute, he liked the design, 
and told me I should not go alone, but he would go 
with me, but he would go tirst and bring a stout fel- 
löWy one of bis countrymen, to go also with us; '' and 
t>ne," said he, ** as famous for bis zeal as you caa 
desire any one to be . against such devilish things as 
these." In a word, he brought me bis comrade, a 
Seotchman, whom he called Captain Richardson ; and 
I gave him a füll account of what I had seen, and 
also what I intended; and he told me readily, he 
would go with me if it cost him bis life. So we 
agreed to go, only we three. I had, indeed, pro- 
posed it to my partner, but he declined it. He said, 
ne was ready to assist me to the utmost, and on all 
occasions, for my defence ; but this was an adventure 
quite out of bis way ; so, I say, we resolved on our 
work, only we three and my man-servant, and to put 
it in execution that night about midnight, with all the 
aecrecy imaginabl^. 

However, on second thoughts, we were willing to 
delay it tili the next night, because the caravan being 
to set fosward in the morning, we supposed the go* 
vernor could not pretend to give them any satisfaction 
OB US when we were out of bis power. The Scotch 
■lerchant, as steady in bis resolution for the enterprise 



270 . LIFE AND ADVENTÜRES 

as bold in executing» brought me a Tartar's robe or 
gown of sheep-skins, and a bonnet, with a bow and 
arrows, and bad provided tbe same for himself and bis 
countryman, tbat tbe people, if tbey saw us, sbould 
not determine who we were. 

All tbe first nigbt we spent in mixing np some com- 
bustible matter with aqua rit«, gunpowder, and such 
other materials as we could get ; and, baving a good 
quantity of tar in a little pot, about an hour after 
nigbt we set out on our expedition. 

We came to tbe place about eleven o'clock at night, 
and found tbat the people bad not tbe least jealousy 
of danger attending their idol. The night was cloudy ; 
yet tbe moon gave us ligbt enougb to see that tbe idol 
stood just in the same posture and place tbat itdid 
before. The people seemed to be all at their rest; 
oniy, that in the great but» or tent, as we called it, 
wbere we saw the three priests wbom we miatoök for 
butchers, we saw a light ; and going up close to the 
door, we heard people talking as if there were five or 
aix of them ; we concluded, therefore, that if we set 
wildüre to the idol, these men would come out im- 
mediately, and run up to the place to rescue it from 
the destruction that we intended for it ; and what to do 
with them we knew not. Once we thought of carry- 
ing it away and setting fire to it at a distance, but 
when we came to handle it, we found it too bulky for 
our carriage ; so we were at a loss again. The second 
Scotchman was for setting iire to the tent or but, and 
knocking the creatures that were there on the head, 
when they came out; but I could not join with that; 
I was against killing them, if it were possible to avoid 
it. " Well, tlien," said the Scotch merchant, " I will 
teil you what we will do : we will try to make them 
prisoners, tie their hands, and make them stand and 
see their idol destroyed." 

As it happened, we bad twine or packthread 
enougb about us, which we used to tie our firelocks 



. OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 271 

together with ; so we resolved to attack these people 
first, and with as little noise as we could. The first 
thing we didy we knocked at the door, when one of 
the priests Coming to it, we immediately seized on 
him, stopped his mouth, and tied his hands behind 
him, and led him to the idol, where we gagged him 
that he might not make a noise, tied his feet also to- 
gether, and ieft him on the ground. 

Two- of US then waited at the door, expecting that 
another would come out, to see what the matter was ; 
but we waited so long tili the tbird man came back to 
US ; and then nobody Coming out, we knocked again. 
geotly, and immediately out came two more, and we 
senred them just in the same manner, but were obliged 
to go all with tliem, and lay them down by the idol 
some distance from one another; when, going back, 
we found two more were come out to the door, and a 
third stood behind them within the door. We seized 
the two, and immediately tied them, when the third 
stepping back, and crying out, my Scotch merchant 
went in after him, and, taking out a composition we 
had made, that would only smoke and stink, he sei 
fire to it and threw it in among them : by that time 
.the other Scotchman and my man, taking charge of the 
two men already bound, and tied together also by the 
arm, led them away to the idol, and Ieft them there 
to see if their idol would relieve them, making haste 
back to US. 

When the furze we had thrown in had filled the 
Jiut with so much smoke that they were almost suf- 
focatedy we then threw in a small leather bag of an- 
other kind, which flamed like a candle, and following 
it in, we found there were but four people, and, a» 
we supposed, had been about some of their diabolic 
sacrifices. They appeared, in short, frightened to 
death, at least so as to sit trembling and stupid, and 
not able to speak neither» for the smoke. 

In a wora, we took them, bound them as we had 



27d LIFE AMD ADVSNTURES 

done the other, and all withoat any noise« I AaM 
have Said we brought them out of the house, or hat, 
iirst ; for indeed we were not able to bear the moke 
any more than they were. When we had done this, 
we carried them all together to the idol : Yfhea we 
came there we feil to work with him ; and first we 
daubed him all over, and his robes- also, with tar, 
and such other stuff as we had, which was tallow 
mixed with brimstone ; then we stopped his eyes, and 
jears, and mouth füll of gunpowder ; then we wrapped 
up a great piece of wildfire in his bonnet ; and toen 
sticking all the combustibles we had brought with us 
on him, we looked about to see if we could find any 
thing eise to help to burn him ; when my Scotchman 
remembered that by the tent, or hut, where the meii 
were, there lay a heap of dry forage, whether straw 
or rushes I do not remember ; away he and the other 
Scotchman ran, and fetched their arms füll of that 
When we had done this, we took all our prisoners, 
and brought them, having untied their feet and un- 
gagged their moutbs, and made them stand up, and 
3et them. bcfore their monstrous idol, and then set fire 
to the whole. 

We stayed by it a quarter of an hour, or there- 
abouts, tili the powder in the eyes, and mouth, aod 
ears of the idol blew up, and, as we could perceive, 
had split and deformed the shape of it; and, in aword, 
tili we saw it burnt into a mere block or log of wood; 
and setting dry forage to it, we found it would besooa 
quite consumed ; so we began to think of going away ; 
but the Scotchman said, '' No, we must not go, for 
these poor deluded wretches will all throw themseWes 
into the fire, and burn themseWes with the idol." So 
we resolved to stay tili the forage was bumt down too, 
and then came away and left them. 

After the feat was per for med, we appeared in the 
morning among our fellow-traveUers, exceedingly busy 
in getting ready for our journey ; nor could any man 



OF'BOBINSON CRUSOB, 273 

•aggest that we had been any where but In 6ur beds« 
4» travellers might be supposed to be> to fit themselves 
Ibr the faügues of the day's journey. 

But the affieur did not end so : the next day came a 
great number of the country people to thie town-gatesji 
and in a most outrageous manner demänded satis£ac-> 
tion of the Russian governor for the insulting their 
pri^ts, and burning their great Cham Chi-Thaungu« 
The people of Nertsinskay were ät first in a great con« 
atemation, for they said the Tartars were already no 
less than thirty thousand strong. . The Russian go- 
vernor sent out messengers to appease them, and gave 
them all the geod words imaginable ; assuring them 
that he knew nothing of it, and that there had not a 
fioul in bis garrison been abroad, so that it could not 
be from any body there ; but if they could let him 
know wbo did it, they should be exemplar ily punished. 
They returned haughtily that all the country reve- 
reneed the great Cham Chi-Thaungu, who dwelt in 
the sun, and no mortal would have dared to offer 
yiolence to bis image but some Christian miscreant ; 
and they therefore resolved to denounce war against 
him and all the Russians, who, they said, were mis- 
creants and Christians. 

The goTernor, still patient, and unwilling to make 
m breach, or to have any cause of war alleged to be 
giyen by him, the czar having strictly charged.them 
to treat the conquered country with gentleness and 
civility, gave them still all the good words he could. 
At last he told them there was a caravan gone to« 
wards Russia that morning, and perhaps it was some 
of them who had done them this injury ; and that if 
they would be satisfied with that, he would send after 
them to inquire into it. This seemed to appease them 
a little ; and accordingly the governor sent after us, 
and ga?e us a particular account how the thinff was ; 
iotimating withal, that if any in our caravan had done 
it» they should make their escape; but that whether 

VOL. II. ^ 



274 LIFE ÄND ADVBNTURES 

we had done it or no, we shoald make all the liatte 
forward that was possible; and that, in the meaa 
time, he would keep them in play as long as he eonld. 

Thia was yeiy iriendiy in the govemor ; howeyer, 
when it came to the caniTan, there was nobody knew 
any thing of the matter ; and as for us that were guilty, 
we were ieast of all suspected. Ho^preyer, the captain 
of the Caravan for the time took the hint that the go« 
yemor gave us, and we trayelled two days and two 
nights without any considerable stop, and then we lay 
at a viüage called Plothus : nor did we make any long 
stop here, but hastened on towards Jarawena, another 
of the Czar of Muscoyy's colonies, and where we ez- 
pected we should be safe. But on the second day's 
march from Plothus, by the clouds of dust behind m 
at a great distance, some of our people began to be 
sensible we were pursued. We had entered a grast 
desert, and had passed by a great lake called Sdiaks 
Oser, when we perceived a Tery great body of horse 
appear on the other side of the lake, to the north, we 
travelling west. We observed they went away west, 
as we did, but had supposed we would have taken 
that side of the lake, wbereas we very happily took 
the south side ; and in two days more they disappeared 
again : for they believing we were still before them, 
pushed on tili they came to the river Udda, a very 
^reat river when it passes farther north, but when we 
came to it we found it narrow and fordable. 

The third day they had either found their mistake, 
or had intelligence of us, and came pouringin on us 
towards the dusk of the evening. We had, to our great 
satisfaction, just pitched on a place for our camp, 
which was very convenient for the night ; for as we 
were on a desert, though but at the beginning of it, that 
was above five hundred miles over, we had no towns 
to lodge at, and, indeed, expected none but the cityof 
Jarawena, which we had yet two days' march to : the 
deserty however, had some few woods in it on this side, 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 275 

ahd little rivers, which ran all into the great river 
Udda ; it was in a narrow strait, between little, but 
v^ry thick woods, that we pitched pur little camp for 
diat night, expecting to be attacked before morning. 

Nobody knew but ourselves what we were pursued 
for : but as it was usual for the Mogul Tartars to go 
^bout in troops in that desert, so the Caravans always 
fortify themselyes every night against them, as against 
annies of robbers ; and it was therefore no new thing 
to be pursued. 

But we had this night, of all the nights of our tra- 
▼ek, a most advantageous camp ; for we lay between 
two woods, with a little rivulet running just before our 
front, so that we could not be surrounded, or attacked 
any way but in our front or rear. We took care also 
to niake our front as streng as we could, by placing 
our packs, with our cameis and horses, all in a line» 
on tiie inside of the river, and felling some trees in 
oar rear. 

In this posture we encamped for the night ; but 
tiie enemy was on us before we had finished our Situa- 
tion. They did not come on us like thieves, as we 
expected, but sent three messengers to us, to demand 
the men to be delivered to them that had abused their 
priests, and burned their god Cham Chi-Thaungu with 
fire, that they might burn them with fire ; and on this, 
they Said, they would go away, and do us no farther 
härm, otherwise they would destroy us all. Our men 
looked yery blank at this message, and began to stare 
at one another, to see who looked with the most guilt 
in their faces : but, nobody was the word ; nobody 
did it. The leader of the caravan sent word he vras 
well assured that it was not done by any of our camp ; 
that we were peaceable merchants, travelling on our 
bnsiness ; that we had done no härm to them or to 
%ay one eise ; and that, therefore, they must look 
fiuther for their enemies who had injured them, for we 



276^ LIFE AND ADVSNTURBH 

were not the people ; so desired them not to' distal^ 
US, for, if they did, we should defend ouiselTes. 

They were far from being satisfied with this for an 
answer; and a great crowd of them came Tunninf; 
döwn in the moming, by break of day» to cur camp ; 
but seeing us in such an adyantageous Situation^ they 
durst come no farther than the brook in cur front, 
where they stood, and showed us such a number that 
indeed terrified us yery much ; for those that spoke 
least of them spoke of ten thousand. Here they stood 
and looked at us a while, and then setting up a great 
howl, they let fly a cloud of arrows among us ; but wir 
were well enough fortified for that, for we sheltered 
under our baggage, and I do not remember that one 
of US was hurt. 

Some time after this, we saw them move a little to 
our right, and expected them on the rear ; when a 
cunning fellow, a Cossack of Jarawena,'in the pay of 
the MuscoYites, calling to the leader of the oaravan, 
Said to him, ** I'U go send all these people away to 
Siheilka." This was a city four or five da3rs joumey 
at least to the right, and rather behind us. So he 
takes his bow and arrows, and getting on horseback, 
he rides away from our rear directly, as it were back to 
Nertsinskay ; after this, he takes a great circuitabout, 
and comes directly on the army of the Tartars, as if he 
had been sent express to teil them a long story that 
the people who had burnt the Cham Chi-Thaungu 
were gone to Siheilka, with a caravan of miacreants, 
as he called them, that isto say, Christians ; and thtt 
they had resolved to burn the god Schal- Isar, beloag- 
ing to the Tongueses. 

As this fellow was himself a mere Tartar» and per- 
fectly spoke their language, he counterfeited so well, 
that they all took it from him, and away they droTe 
in a most violent hurry to Siheilka, which, it seems, 
was five days journey to the north; and inless thaa 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. STT 

^ree hours they were entirely out of our sight, and 
we never iieard any more of them, nor whether they 
^¥eiit to Sibeilka or no. So we passed away safely on 
Xo Jarawena, where th^e was a garrison of Muscovites» 
and there we rested fiye days ; the caravan belog ex^ 
ceedingly fatigued with the last day's hard march» and 
with want of rest in the night. . 

From this city we had a firightful desert» which held 
US twenty-three days march. We furnished ourselves 
with some tents here, for the better accommodating 
ourselves in the night; and the leader of the caravan 
procured sixteen carriages or waggons of the country, 
for carrying our water or provisions ; and these car- 
riages were our defence, every night, round our little 
camp ; so that had the Tartars appeared, unless they 
had-been very numerous indeed, they would not have 
been able to hurt us. 

We may well be supposed to want rest again after 
this long journey ; for in this desert we neither saw 
house nor tree, and scarce a bush ; though we saw 
abundance of the sable hunters, who are all Tartars of 
the Mogul Tartary, of which this country is a part ; 
and they frequently attack small caravans : but we saw 
HO numbers of them together. 

After we had passed this desert, we came into a 
country pretty well inhabited; that is to say, we 
found towns and Castles, settled by the Czar of Mus» 
eovy, with garrisons of stationary soldiers, to protect 
the cararans, and defend the country against the Tar- 
tars, who would otherwise make it very dangerous 
travelling; and bis czarish majesty has given such 
strict Orders for the well guarding the caravans and 
merchantSy that, if there are any Tartars heard of 
in the country, detachments of the garrisons are al* 
wa3f8 sent to see the travellers safe from Station to star 
•tiott. And thus the govemor of Adinskoy, whom I 
•had an opportuntty to make a visit to, by means of 
the Scots merchanty who was acquainted with him. 



27B LIFB AND ADTBNTURE'S 

ofFered us a guard of fifty men, if we thought there'waft 
any danger, to the next Station. 

I thought long before this, that as we came nearer 
to Europe we should find the country better inhabited» 
and the people more civilised ; but I found myself ni»- 
taken in both ; for we had yet the nation of the Ton« 
gueses to pass through, where we saw the same tokeas 
of paganism and barbarity as before ; only, as they 
were eonquered by the Muscoyites, they were not so 
dangerous ; but for rudeness of manners, and idolatry, 
no people in the world ever went beyond them ; they 
are clothed all in skins of beasts, and their houses 
are built of the same ; you know not a man firom a 
woman, neither by the ruggedness of their connte- 
nances nor their clothes ; and in the winter, wfaen the 
ground is covered with snow, they liye tioder ground 
in vaults, which have cavities going from one to an- 
other. 

If the Tartars had their Cham Chi-Thaungu for a 
whole village or country, these had idols in «very hat 
and every cave : besides, they worship the stars, the 
sun, the water, the snow, and, in a word, every thing 
they do not understand, and they understand but very 
little ; so that every element, every uncommon thing» 
sets them a sacrificing. I met with nothing peculiar 
to myself in all this country, which I recken was, firom 
the desert I spoke of last, at least four hundred miles, 
half of it being another desert, which took us up twelve 
days severe travelling, without house or tree ; and we 
were obliged again to carry our own prorisions, as 
well water as bread. After we were out of this 
desert, and had travelled two days, we came to Jane« 
zay, a Muscovite city or Station on the great river Ja- 
nezay, which, they told us there, parted Europe frcm 
Asia. 

Here I observed ignorance and paganism still pre- 
vailed, except in the Muscovite garrisons; all the 
country between the river Oby and the river Janeiay 



OF ROBINSON. CRUSOE» 279 

ia as entirely ps^n, and fche people as barbarous, as 
the remotest of the Tartanr ; nay, as any nation, for 
aiight I koow, in Asia or America« . I also found, 
which I obaerved to the Muscovite goTernors whom I 
had jan opportunity to conyerse with, ihat the poor 
pagans are not much wiser, or. nearer Christianity, for 
being under the Muscovite government, which they 
acknowledged was true enoagh; but that, as they 
Said, was none of their business ; that if the czar ex-* 
pected to convert his Siberian, Tonguese, or Tartar 
subjects, it should be done by sending clergymen 
among them, not soldiers ; and, they added, with more 
flincerity than I expected, that they found it was not 
«o much the concern of their monarch to make the 
people Christians as it was to make them subjects. 

From this river to the great river Oby, we crossed 
*Si wild uncultiyated . country, harren of people and 
good management, otherwise it is in itself a most plea-» 
sant, fruitful, and agreeable country. What inha- 
"foitants we found in it are all pag^s, except such as 
are sent among them from Russia : for this is the 
country, I mean on both sides the river Oby, whither 
the Muscovite criminals that are not put to death are 
banished, and from whence it is next to impossible 
they should ever come away. 

I have nothing material to say of my particular 
affairs tili I came to Tobolski, the capitai city of Si- 
beria, where I continued some time on the following 
occasion. 

We had now been almost seven months on our 
jonmey, and winter began to come on apace ; whereon 
Biy partner and I called a Council about our particular 
anairs, in which we found it proper, as we were bound 
for England, and not for Moscow^ to «onsider how to 
dispose of ourselves. They told us of sledges and 
rein-deer to carry us over the snow in the winter-time ; 
and, indeed, they have such things that it would. be 
incredible to relate tha partioulars of, by which means 



280 LIFE ASJ} ADVENTURES 

the Russians trayel more. in the winter than tliey caif 
in Summer, as in theae sledges they are able to run 
night and day ; Ute snow being frozen, is one universal 
covering to' nature» by which the hüls, yales,* rivers, 
and lakes, are all smooth and hard as a stone, and 
they run on the surface^ withdut any reg^ard to wbat is 
unaerneath. 

But I had no occasion to push at a winter journey 
of this kind ; I was bound to England, not to Mos- 
cow, and myroute lay two wa3rs ; either I miist go on 
as the Caravan went, tili I came to Jaroslaw, and then 
go off West for Narva, and the gulf of Finland, and so 
to Dantzie, where I might possibly seil my China 
cargo to good advantage ; or 1 must leave the caravan 
at a little town on the Dwina, from whenee I had bot 
six days by water to Archangel, and irom thence 
might be sure of shipping either to England^ Hollandi 
or Hamburgh. 

Now to go.any of these journeys in the winter 
would have been preposterous ; for as to Dantzic, the 
Baltic would have been frozen up, and I could not 
get passage ; and to go by land in those countries was 
far less safe than among the Mogul Tartars ; likewise, 
if I went to Archangel in October, all the ships would 
be gone from thence ; and even the merchants who dweil 
there in summer retire south to Moscow in the winter, 
when the ships are gone ; so that I could have nothing 
but extremity of cold to encounter, with a scarcity of 
provisions, and must lie in an empty town all the 
winter : so that, on the whole, I thought it much my 
better way to let the caravan go, and make provision 
to winter where I was, at Tobolski, in Siberia, in the 
latitude of about sixty degrees, where I was sare of 
three tbings to wear out a cold winter with, viz. plenty 
of provisions, such as the country afforded, a warm 
house, with fuel enough, and excellent Company* 

I was now in a quite different climate from my be- 
loved island, where I never feit cold, except when I 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 28t 

had my ague ; on the contrary, I had much to do to 
bear any clothes on my back, and never made any fire 
but without doors, which was necessary for dressing^ 
my food, &c. Now I made me three good vests, with 
large robes or gowns over them^ to hang down to the 
£ßet, and button close to the wrists ; and all these lined 
with fürs, to make them sufficiently warm. 

As to a warm house, I must confess I greatly dis- 
liked our way in England of making fires in every 
room in the house in opeti chimneysi which, when the 
fire .was out, always kept the air in the room cold as 
the climate ; but taking^ an apartm^nt in a good house 
in Üie town, I ordered a chimney to be built like a 
fumace, in die centre of six severaf rooms, like a stove ; 
tke funnel to carry the smoke went up one wsy, the 
door to come at the fire went in another, and all the 
rocmis were kept equally warm, but no fire seen, just 
as they heat the bagnios in England. By this means, 
we had always the same climate in all the rooms, and 
nn eqnal heat "W^ls preserved ; and how cold soever it 
was without, it was alwayS warm within ; and yet we 
saw no fire, nor were ever incommoded with smoke. 

The most wonderful thing of all was, that it should 
be possible to meet with good Company here, in a 
country so barbarous as that of the most northerly parts 
of Europe, near the frozen ocean, within but a Tery 
few degrees of Nota Zembla. But this being the 
country where the State criminals of Muscovy, as I 
obeerved before, a#e all banished, this city was füll of 
noblemen, gentlemen, soldiers, and courtiers of Mus- 
eory« Here^was the famous prince Galitzen, the old 
geoifral Hobostlski, and several other persons of note, 
aad some ladies. By means of my Scots merchant, 
wIkmb, neverCheiess, I parted with here, I made an 
atquaintanc^'-with several of these gentlemen; and 
from these^ in the longwinter nights in which I stayed 
here, I re^ived seyeral very agreeable Visits« 

It was talking one night with prince ■ ■ « i one 



282 UFB AND ADVBNTCRES 

of the banished ministers of State belooging to the 
Czar of Muscovy, that the discourse of my particular 
case began. He had been telling me abundance of 
line things of the greatness, the magnificeiic8y the 
dominionSy and the absolute power of the emperof 
of the Russians : I intemipted him, and told bim I 
was a greater and more powerful prince than even the 
Czar of Muscoyy was, though my dominions were 
not so large, or my people so many. The Russian 
grandee looked a litUe surprised, and fixing his eyes 
steadily on me, began to wonder what I meant. . I 
told him his wonder would cease wben. I had ex- 
plained myself. First, I told him I had absolute dis- 
posal of the lives and fortunes of all my subjects ; that 
notwithstanding my absolute power, I had not one 
person disaffected to my government, or to my persoa, 
in all my dominions. He shook his head at that, and 
Said, there, indeed, I outdid the Czar of MoscoTy. 
I told him that all the lands in my kingdom wese my 
own, and all my subjects were not only my tenants, 
but tenants at will ; that they would all fight for me 
to the last drop ; and that neyer tyrant, for such I 
acknowledged myself to be, was eyer so uuiyersally 
beloyed, and yet so horribly feared by his subjects. 

After amusing him with these riddles in goyernment 
for awhile, I opened the case, and told him the story 
at large of my liying in the island; and how I ma- 
naged both myself and the people that were under me, 
just as I haye since minuted it down. They wer« 
exceedingly taken with the story, and especially the 
prince, who told me, with a sigh, that the tme great» 
ness of life was to be masters of ourselyes ; that he 
would not haye exchanged such a State of life as mine 
to be Czar of Muscoyy ; and that he found more feli- 
city in the retirement he seemed to be banished to 
there, than eyer he found in the highest authority he 
enjoyed in the court of his master the czar ;. that the 
height of human wisdom was to bring our tempeis 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 28S 

down to oor circtimstaoces, and to make a calm 
withiiiy under the weight bf the greatest storms with-* 
out. When he came iirst hither, he said he used tx> 
tear the hair from his head, and the clothes from hk 
back, BS others had done before him ; but a little time 
and consideration had made him look into himself, as 
well as round him, to things without : that he found 
the mind of man, if it was but once brought to reflect 
on the State of universal life, and how little this world 
was concemed in its true felicity, was perfbctly capa«- 
ble of making a felicity for itself, fuUy satisfying te 
^tself, and suitable to its own best ends and desires, 
with but Tery little assistanee from the world ; the air 
to breathe in, food to sustain life, clothes for warmth, 
and liberty for exercise, in order to health, coropleted, 
in his opinion, all that the world could do for us ; 
and though the greatness, the authority, the riches-» 
and the pleasures which some enjoyed in the world, 
faad much in them that was agreeable to us, yet all 
those things chiefly gratified the coarsest of our affec«» 
tioniy such as our ambition, our particular pride, ava« 
rice, yanity, and sensuality ; all which beiug the mere 
product of the worst part of man, were in themselve^ 
crimes» and had in them the seeds of all nanner of 
crimes; but neither were related to, nor concemed 
with, any of those virtues that constituted us wis^ 
men, or of those graces that distinguished us as Chris^ 
tians ; that being now deprived of all the fancied feli- 
city which he enjoyed in the füll exercise of all those 
vices*, he said he was at leisure to look on the dark 
mde of them, where he found all manner of deformity, 
and was now convinced that virtue only makes a man 
tmly wise, rieh, and great, and preserves him in thQ 
way to a superior happiness in a future State ; and in 
this, he said, they were more happy in their banish- 
ment than all their enemies were, who had the füll 
possession of all the wealth and power they had left 
behind them. ** Nor, Sir,'' says he, ** do I bring 



284 LIFE AND ADVENTVRBS 

xny mind to this politically, by tbe necessity of my 
circumstances, whicb some call miserable ; but, if I 
know any thing of myself, I would not now go back, 
tbough the czar my master should call me, and rein- 
atate me in all roy former grandeur : I say, I would 
no more go back to it, tban I beHeye my S9ul, when 
it shall be deliyered from tbis prison of the body, and 
has bad a taste of the glorious State beyond life, would 
come back to the gaol of flesh and blood it is now 
enclosed in, andleave beaven, to deal in the dirt and 
crime of human aiFairs/' 

He spoke tbis with so much warmtb in bis temper, 
so much earnestness and motion of bis spirits, that it 
.was evidept it was tbe tnie sense of bis soul ; there 
.was no room to doubt bis sincerity. I told bim I once 
.thought myself a kind of monarch in my cid Station, 
,of whicb I bad given bim an account; but lliat I 
.thought he was not only a monarch, bat a gteat con- 
queror ; for that he that has got a victory OTer bis 
own exorbitant desires, and the absolute dominion 
over himself, whose reason entirely governs bis will, 
is certainly greater tban he that conquers a city. 
•* But, my lord," said I, " shall I take tbe liberty to 
ask you a-question ?" — " With all my heart,'* says be. 
— ** If the door of your liberty was opened," said I, 
*>* would you not take hold of it to deliver you from tbis 
exile ?" — ** Hold," said he; ** your question is subtle, 
and requires some serious, just distinctions, to give it 
a sincere answer ; and I will give it you from the bot- 
toro of my heart. Nothing that I know of in tbis 
.World would move me to deliver myself from tbis 
State of banishment, except these two ; ürst, the en« 
joyment of my relations; and, secondly, a little 
warmer climate ; but l protest to you, that to go back 
to the pomp of the court, the glory, the power, tbe 
burry of a minister of State ; the wealtb, the gaiety, 
and the pleasures of a courtier ; if my master should 
jseud me word this moment that be restores me to all 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. 286 

he banished me from, I protest, if I know myself at 
all, I would not leave this wilderness, these deserts, 
and these frozen lakes, for the palace at Moscow."-^ 
** But, my lord," said I, '* pernaps you not only are 
banished from the pleasures of the court, and from the 
power, authority, and wealth you enjoyed before» but 
you may be absent too from some of the conveniences 
of life ; your estate, perhaps, eonfiscated, and ,your 
effects plundered ; and the supplies left you here may 
not be suitable to the ordinary demands of life,"-— 
** Ay," says he, '^ that is as you suppose me to be a 
lord, or a prinee, &c. ; so, indeed, I am ; but you are 
now to consider me only as a man, a human creature» 
not at all distinguished from another ; and so I can 
suffer no want, unless I should be yisited with sick* 
ness and distempers. However, to put the question 
out of dispute, you see our manner ; we are, in this 
place, five persons of rank ; we live perfectly retired, 
as suited to a State of banishment ; we have something 
rescued from the shipwreck of our fortunes, which 
keeps US from the mere necessity of hunting for food ; 
but the poor soldiers, who are here without that help, 
üve in as much plenty as we, who go into the woöds 
and catch sables and foxes; the labour of a month 
will maintain them a year ; and as the way of living 
is not expensive, so it is not hard to get sufficient to 
ourselves. ' So Üiat objection is out of doors." 

I have not room to give a füll aecount of the most 
agreeable conyersation I had with this truly great 
man ; in all which he showed that his mind was so 
inspired with a superior knowledge of things, so sup- 
ported by religion, as well as by a yast share of wis* 
dorn, that his contempt of the world was really as 
much as he had expressed, and that he was always the 
same to the last, as will appear in the story I am 
going to teil. 

• I had been here eight months, and a dark, dreadful 
Winter Ithought it; the cold so intense that I could 



€86 LiFB AND ADVSNTURBS 

aot so much as iook abroad withput being wmpped in 
fürs, and a mask of für before my face, or ratber a 
hood, with only a hole for breath, and two fbr sight: 
the little dayligbt we had was» as we reckoned, for 
three months, not above five hours a day^ and six at 
most ; only that the snow lying on the ground cod- 
tinually, and the weather being elear, it was never quite 
dark. Our horses were kept» or rather starved, under 
ground ; and as for our seryants, wbom we hired here 
to Iook after ourselves and horses, we had, every now 
and then, their fingers and toes to thaw and take care 
of, lest they should mortify and fall off. 

It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses 
being close, the walls thick, the lights small, and the 
glass all double. Our food was chiefly the flesh of 
deer, dried and eured in the season; bread good 
enough, but baked a» biscuits; dried fish of several 
sorts, and some fiesh of mutton and of buffaloes, 
which is pretty good meat. AU^ the Stores of provi- 
sions for the winter are laid up in the summer, and 
well cured : our drink was water, mixed with aqua 
vitae iustead of brandy ; and for a treat, mead instead 
of wine, which, however, they have excellent good. 
The hunters, who venture abroad all weathers, fre- 
quently brought us in fine venison, and sometimes 
bears. fiesh, but we did not much care for the last. 
We had a good stock of tea, with which we treated 
• our friends, as above, and we lived very cheerfuliy 
and well, all things considered. 

It was now March, the days grown considerably 
longer, and the weather at least tolerable ; so the 
other travellers began to prepare siedges to carry them 
over the snow, and to get things ready to be going ; 
but my measures being fixed, as I have said, for 
Archangel, and not for Muscovy or the Baltic, I 
made no motion ; knowing very well that the ships 
from the läoutb do not set out for that part of the 
World tiil May or Jiine, and that if I was there by the 



OF BOBINSON CRUSOE* 989 

begiauiii^ of August, it woold be as soon as mny ships 
would be ready to go away ; and theretbre I nuule no 
haste tu be gone, as others did : in a word, I saw a 
great inany people, nay, all the trayellers, go away 
before me. It seems, eyery year they go firom thenoe 
to Moscoyy for trade, tu. to carry fürs, and buy ne« 
cessaries, which they bring back with them to fur- 
iiish their shops: also others went on the same er- 
rand to Archangel ; but then they all being to come 
iMick again aboye eight hundred miles, went all out 
before me. 

In the month of May I began to make all ready to 
pack up ; Bnd, as I was doing this, it occurred to me 
ihat, seeing all these people were banished by the 
Czar <^ Muscoyy to Siberia, and yet, when they came 
there, were left at liberty to go whither they would, 
why did they not then go away to any part of the 
World, whereyer they thought ht? and I began to 
eocamine what should hinder them from making such 
an attempt. But my wonder was oyer when I en- 
tered on that subject with the person I haye men- 
tioned, who answered me thus : *' Consider, first, Sir," 
Said he, '* the place where we are ; and, secondly, the 
condition we are in ; especially the generality of the 
people who are banished hither. We are surrounded 
with stronger things than bars or bolts ; on the north 
side an unnayigabie ocean, where ship neyer sailed, 
and boat neyer swam ; eyery other way, we haye 
aboye a tbousand miles to pass through the czar's 
own dominions, and by ways utterly impassable, ex- 
cept by the roads made by the goyernment, and 
ihrough the towns garrisoned by his troops ; so that 
we could neither pass undiscoyered by the read, nor 
subsist any other way ; so that it is in yain to attempt 
it." 

I was silenced, indeed, at onee, and found that 
they were in a prison eyery jot as secure as if they 
had baen lockea up in thQ castle at Moscow : how- 



taa UFE AND ADVENTURSS 

ever, it came into my thoughts tbat I might certainiy 
be made an instniment to procure the escape of ihn 
excellent persoo ; and that, whatever hazara I ran, 
I would certainiy try if I could carry tum off. On 
this I took an occasion, one even^ng, to teil bim my 
thoughts. I represeiited to him that it was yeiy easy 
for me to carry him away, tbere being no guarü over 
him in the country ; and as I was not going to Mos* 
cow, but to Archangel, and that 1 went in (he reunue 
of a Caravan, by which I was not obl'3;ed io Me in the 
stationary towns in the desert, but coulu encamp every 
night where I would, we migat easily pass uuinter-* 
rupted to Archangel, where I would immediately se- 
eure him oi| board an English ship, and carry him 
safe along with me : and as to bis subsistence, and 
other particulars, it should be my ca^ey tili he could 
better supply himself. 

He heaiti me very attentively, and looked eamestly 
on me all the while I spoke ; nay, I could see in bis 
very fece that what I said put bis spirits into an ex- 
ceeding ferment; bis colour frequently changed, bis 
eyes looked red, and bis heart fluttered, that it might 
be even perceived in bis countenance ; nor could he 
immediately answer me wben I had done, and as it 
were hesitated what he would say to it : but after he 
had paused a little, he embraced me, and said, ** How 
unhappy are we, unguarded creatures as we are, that 
even our greatest acts of friendship are made snares 
unto US, and we are made tempters of one another! 
My dear friend/' said he, ** your ofFer is so sincere, 
faas such kindness in it, is so disinterested in itself, 
and is so calculated for my advantage, that I must 
have very little knowledge of the world if I did not 
both wonder at it, and acknowledge the Obligation I 
have on me to you for it. But did you believe I was 
sincere in what I have often said.to you of my con- 
tempt of the world ? Did you believe I spoke my 
very soul to you, and that I had really obtained tbat 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. "284 

degree of Micity faere that had placed me above. all 
ÜMt tiie workl could give me ? Did you belieye I'was 
sincere when I told you I would not go back^jf I 
was reealled even to be all that I once was in the 
oourty with the faToar of the czar my master? Did 
Too believe me, my friend, to be an honest man ; or 
did you belieTeme to be a boasting hypocrite 1" Here 
hie stopped, as if he would hear what I would say ; 
but, indeed, I soon after perceived that he stopped 
because his spirits were in motion, his great heart was 
fbll of struggles, and he could not go on. I was, I 
confess, astonished at the thing as well as at the man, 
and I used some argnments with him to nrge him to 
aet himself free ; that he ought to look #n this as a 
door opened by Heaven for his deliverätice, and a 
sysmions by providence, who has the care and dispo- 
sition of all events, to do himself good, and to render 
himself useful in the world. 

He had by this time recoyered himself. *' How 
do yon know,. Sir," says he warmly, ** but that, in- 
siead of a summons from Heaven, it may be a feint of 
another Instrument; representing in aliuring oolours 
to me the show of felicity as a deliyerance, which 
may in itself be my snare, and tend directly to my 
min ? Here I am free from the temptation of return- 
ing to my former miserable greatness ; there I am not 
snre but that all the seeds of pride, ambition, avarice, 
and luxuiy , which I know remain in nature, may revive 
and take root, and, in a word, again overwhelm me ; 
and then the happy prisoner, whom you see now 
master of his souVs liberty, shall be the miserable 
slaye of his own senses, in the possession of all personal 
liberty. Dear Sir, let me remain in this blessed con- 
finementy banished from the crimes of life, rather than 
purchase a show of freedom at the expense of the 
liberty of my reason, and at the future happiness 
which I now haye in my yiew, but shall then, I fear, 
qoickly lose sight of ; for I am but flesh ; a man, a 

▼OL. II. '^ 



200 ' LIFB AND ABVBNfVRBS 

m^e man ; have passions and affections as likely to 
possess aqd overthrow me as any man : O be not my 
friend and tempter both together !" 

It I was surprised before» I was quite dumb now, 
and stood silent^ looking at bim, and, indeed, ad- 
miring what I saw. The struggle in bis soul was so 
great, tbat though the w^atber was exjbremely cold, it 
put bim into a most violent sweat, aad I fonnd be 
wanted to give yent to bis mind ; so I said a word or 
two, tbat I would leave bim to consider of it, and 
wait on bim again, and tben I witbdrew to my own 
apartment. 

About two bours after, I beard somebody at or near 
tbe dooT of 4|py room, and I was going to open the 
door, but be bad opened it, and come in. ^* My dear 
friend,'^ says be, '' you bad almost overset me, but I 
am recovered. Do not take it ill tbat I do not close 
witb youT offer ; I assure you it is not for want of sense 
of tbe kindness of it in you ; and I came to make tbe 
most sincere acknowledgment of it to you ; but I bope 
I bave got tbe victory over myself." — ** My lord," 
says I, *' I bope you are fuUy satisfied tbat you do 
not resist tbe call of Heaven." — ** Sir," said be, ** if it 
bad been from Heayen, tbe same power would bav« 
influenced me to bave accepted it : but I bope, and am 
fully satisfied, tbat it is from Heaven I decline it ; and 
I bave infinite satisfaction in tbe parting, tbat yoa 
shall leave me an honest man still, though not a free 
man." 

I bad nothing to do but to acquiesce, and mak€ pro- 
fessions to bim of my having no end in it but a sinceie 
desire to serve bim. He embraced me very passioD- 
ately, and assured me he was sensible of tbat, and 
should always acknowledge it ; and witb tbat he of- 
fered me a very fine present of sables, too mach, 
indeed, for me to accept from- a man in bis circumstan- 
ces, and I would bave avoided them, but be would 
not be refused. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSO^; 201 

Tbe next morning I sent my serrant to his lordship 
with a small present of tea, and two pieces of China 
damask, and four little wedges of Japan gold/which 
did not all weigh aboye six ounces or tbereabouts, bat 
were fitr sbort of the value of his sables, which, when 
I cam« to England, I found worth near two hundred 
pounds. He accepted the tea, and one piece of the 
damask, and <{he of the pieces of gold, which had a 
fine stamp on it, of the Japan coinage, which I found 
he took for the rarity of it, but would not take any 
more ; and he sent word by my servant that he desired 
to speak with me. 

When I came to him, he told me I knew what had 
passed between us, and hoped I would ||Dt moye him 
any more in that affair ; but that, since I had made 
such a generous offer to him, he asked me if I had 
kindness enough to offer the same to another person 
that he would name to me, in whom he had a great 
flhare of concern. I told him that I could not say I 
indined to do so much for any but himself, for whom 
I had a particular value, and should have been glad to 
ha^e been the instrument of his deliverance ; however, 
if he would please to name the person to me, I would 
giye him my answer. He told me it was his only son ; 
who, though I had not seen him, yet he was in the 
same condition with himself, and aboye two hundred 
miles from him, on the other side the Oby ; but that, 
if I consented, he would send for him. 

I made no hesitation, but told him I would do it. I 
made some ceremony in letting him understand that it 
was wholly on his account ; and that seeing I could 
not prevail on him, I would show my respect to him 
by my concern for his son ; but these things are too 
teidious to repeat here. He sent away the next day 
for his son ; and in about twenty days he came back 
with the messenger, bringing six or seven horsesloaded 
with yery rieh fürs, and which, in the whole, amounted 
to a yerj great value. The servants brought the horses 



W2 LIFE ANB ADVENTÜRES 

into the town, bat left the yoong lord at a distance tili 
night, when lie came iacognito into our apartmeot, and 
kis fiither presented bim to me, and, in short, we con- 
certed the manner of our travelling, and evetj thhig 
proper for the joumey. 

r had bougfat a considerable quantity of sables, 
black fox-skins, fine ermines, and suidi other fnnsas 
are Terr rieh, in that city, in exchange for some of the 
goods I had brought from China ; in particular for the 
cioves and nutmegs, of whicfa I sold the greatest part 
here, and the rest afterwards at Archangel, for a mach 
better price than I could have got at London ; and 
my partner, who was sensible of the profit, and whose 
business, m6fe particularly than mine, was merchan- 
dise, was migfatiiy pleased with onr stay, on accoont 
of the traffic we made here. 

It was the beginning of Jane when I left this remote 
place, a city, I believe, little heard of in the World ; 
and, indeed, it is so far out of the road of commerce, 
that I know not how it shoald be mach talked of 
We were now reduced to avery small caravan, haring 
only thirty-two horses and cameis in all, and all ^ 
them passed for mine, though my new guest was pro- 
prietor of eleven of them : it was most natural also 
that I shouid take more servants with me than I had 
before ; and the young lord passed for my Steward : 
what great man I passed for myself, I know not, 
neither did it concern me to inquire. We had here the 
woret and the largest desert to pass over that we met 
with in our whole journey ; I call it the worst, becaose 
the way was very deep in some places, and very un- 
even in others ; the best we had to say for it was, 
that we thought we had no troops of Tartars or rob- 
bers to fear, and that they never came on this side the 
river Oby, or at least but very seldom ; but we found 
it otherwise. 

My young lord had a faithiul Siberian servant, who 
was perfectly acquainted with the country, and led os 



OW ROBINSON CBUSO£. 908 

]bly private roads, so that ve avoided Coming into the 
priBeipal towns and eitles on the great road, «ich as 
Tuioen, Soloy Kamskoi^ and several othecs ; because 
the Muscovite garrisoBs which aie kept there are very 
curious and strict in their obsefvation on traTellers, 
imd searching lest any of the banished perscms of note 
shonld make their escape that way into Mnscovy ; but 
by tfais means, as we were kept out of the cities, so 
onr whole journey was a desert, and we were obliged 
fo encamp and iie in our tcaits, when we mi^t haye 
bad y&ry good acconunodation in the cities on the 
way : this the young lord was so sensible of, that he 
would not ailow us to Iie abroad when we came to 
iseveral cities on the way, but lay abroad^himself, with 
bis servant, in the woods, and met ns always at the 
appointed places. 

We were just entered Europe, having passed the 
river Kama, which in these parts is the boundary be- 
tween Europe and Asia, and the first city on Üke £u^ 
ropean side was ealled Soloy Kamskoi, which is w 
mucb as to say, the great city on the river Kama ; and 
here we thought to see some evident alteratioa in the 
people ; but we were mistaken ; f or as we bad a vast 
desert to pass, which is near seven hundred miles long 
in some places, but not above two hun<bped miles over 
where we passed it, so tili we came paat that horrible 
place, we found very little difference between that 
oounlry and the Mogul Tartary : the people are mostly 
pagans, and little better than Üie savages of Americsa ; 
their houses and towns füll of idob, and their way of 
Uving wboUy barbarous, except in the cities, as above, 
and the villages near them, where. they are Cbristians, 
aa they call themselves, of the Greek church; but 
bave their religion mingled with ao many relica of 
sQperstiüon, that it is acaroe to be known in aame 
places firom mere sorcery and witchcraft. 

In pasaing thb forest, I thooghi, indeed» we mual, 
aAer all our dangen were, to onr magiMation, 



A 



294 LIFE AHD ADYSNTURKS 

escaped» as before, haye been plondeied and robbed, 
and perhaps mordepedy by a troop of IhieTes : of whal 
country they were I am yet at a loss to know, bot 
they were all on horseback, carried bows and arrows, 
and were at fiist about forty-fiye in number; they 
came so near to us as to be within two musket-shots, 
and asking no questions, sorrounded us with their 
horses, and looked yery eamestly on us twice : at 
length they placed themselves just in our way ; on 
which we arew up in a little line, before our cameb, 
being not aboye sixteen men in all ; and being drawn 
"up thus, we haltedy and sent out the Siberian seryant, 
who attended bis lord, to see who they were: his 
master was the more willing to let him go, because he 
was not a little apprehensive that they were a Sibe- 
rian troop sent out after him. The man came up near 
them with a flag of truce, and called to them ; bat 
though he spoke several of their languages, or dia- 
lects of languages rather, he could not understand a 
Word they said ; however^ after some signs to him not 
to come nearer to them, at his peril, the fellow came 
back nb wiser than he went ; only that by their dress, 
he said, he belieyed them to be some Tartars of Kal- 
muck, or of the Circassian hordes, and that there 
must be more of them on the great desert, though he 
never heard that any of them were seen so far north 
before. 

About an hour after, they again made a motion to 
attack US, and rode round our little wood to see where 
they might break in ; but finding us always ready to 
face them, they went off again ; and we resolyed not 
to stir for that night. 

This was small comfort to us ; howeyer, we had no 
remedy: there was, on our left band,, at about a 
quarter of a mile distance, a little grove, and yery 
near the road ; I immediately resolyed we should ad- 
vance to those trees, and fortify ourselyes as well as 
we could there ; for, first^ I considered that the trees 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 206 

'would in a great^easure cover us from their^arrows ; 
and, in the next place, tfaey could not come to char^ 
«s in a body; it was, indeed, my old Po]:|;uguese 
pilot who proposed it, and who had this excellency 
attending him, that he was always teadiest and most 
apt to direct and encourage us in cases of the most 
danger. We advanced immediately, with what speed 
we could, and gained that little wood ; the Tartars, 
CT thieves, for we knew not what to call them, keep- 
ing their stand, and not attempting to hinder us. When 
we came thither, we found, to our great satisfaction, 
diat it was a swampy piece of ground, and on the on% 
«de a very great spring of water, which running out 
in a little brook, was, a little farther, joined by an- 
other of the like size ; and was, in short, the souroe 
of a considerable river, called afterwards the Wirtska : 
the trees which grew about this spring were not above 
two hundred, but very large, and stood pretty thick ; 
SO that as soon as we got in we saw ourselves per- 
fectly safe from the enemy, unless they attacked us on 
foot. 

While we stayed here waiting the motion * of the 
enemy some hours, without perceiving they made any 
movement, our Portuguese, with some help, cut seve- 
ral arms of trees half off, and laid them hanging across 
from one tree to another, and in a manner fenced us 
in. About two hours before night they came down 
directly on us : and though we had not perceived it, 
we found they had been joined by some more of the 
same, so that they were near fourscore horse, where- 
of, however, we fancied some were women. They came 
on tili they were within half a shot of our little wood, 
whenwe fired one musket witbout ball, and called to 
them in the Russian tongue to know what they 
wanted, and bade them keep off ; but they came on 
with a double fury up to the wood side, not imagining 
we were so barricaded that they could not easily break 



296 LIFE AND ADVBNTUBES 

in. Cur old pilot was our captam; as well as oiir 
ekigineer,.and desired us not to fir^on theoEi tili tbey 
came vifithin. pistpl-shot, that we might be sure to kill; 
and that when we did fire we should be sure to take 
good aim : we bade him give the word of command, 
wbicli he delayed so long, that they were some of 
them within two pikes length of us when we let fly. 
, We aimcd so true that we killed fourteen of tfaem, and 
wounded several others, as also several of their horses; 
for we had all of us loaded our pieces with two ox 
three buUets at least. 

g They were terribly surprised with our fire^ and le- 
treated immediately.about one hundred rods from us, 
in which time we loaded our pieces again, and seeing 
them keep that distance, we sallied out, and caught 
four or five of their horses, whose riders we suppc^ 
were killed : and Coming up to the dead, we judged 
they were Tartars, but knew not how^they came lo 
make an excursion of such an unusual length. 

We slept little, you may be sure, but spent the 
most part of the night in strengthening our Situation, 
and barricading the entrances into the wood, and 
keeping a strict watclu We waited for daylight, and 
when it came, it gave us a very ud welcome discovery, 
indeed ; for the enemy, who we thought were dis- 
couraged with the reception they met with, were now 
greatly increased, and had set up eleven or twelve 
huts or tents, as if they were resolved to besiege us : 
and this little camp they had pitched on the open 
{^ain, about three quarters of a mile from us. We 
were, indeed, surprised at this discovery ; and now, I 
confess, I gave myself over for lost, and all that I had : 
the loss of my effects did not lie so near me, though 
very considerable, as the thoughts of falling into the 
hands of such barbarians, at the latter end of myjour- 
ney, after so many difficulties and hazards as I had 
gone through, and even in the sight of our port, where 



09 ROBINSON CRUSOEi 2ä1 

,we expected safc^v and deliverance. As to ikiy part- 
MUßT, he was raging» and declared that to lose ha 
goods would be bis ruin, and that he would rather die 
than be starved ; and be was for fighting to the last 
drop. 

The young lord» a gallant youth, was for fighting to 
the last also ; and my old pilot was of the opinion we 
were able to resist tbem all in the Situation we were 
then in ; and thus we spent the day in debates of what 
we shottld do : but towards evening we found that the 
number of our enemies still increased, and we did not 
know but by the morning they might still be a greater • 
number ; so I began to inquire of tbose people we had 
brought firom Tobolski, if there were no private ways» 
by whieh we might avoid them in the night^ and pe«- 
haps letreat to some town, or get help to guara us 
over the desert. The Siberian, who was servaat to 
the younff lord, told us, if we designed to avoid them, 
and not nght^ he would engage to carry us off in th» 
nigfaty to a way that went north, towards the riv^ 
Petrou, by which he made no question but we might 
get away, and the Tartars never the wiser : but, he 
Said, his lord had told bim be would not retreat, but 
would rather choose to fight. I told him he mistook 
his lord ; for that he was too wise a man to love fight- 
ing for the sake of it ; that I knew his lord was brave 
ooough, by what he had showed already ; but that his 
lord knew better than to desire seventeen or eighteen 
men to fight five hundred, unless an unavoidable ne- 
eessity forced them to it ; and that, if he thovght it 
possible for us to escape in the night, we had nothing 
eise to do but to attempt it. He answered, if his 
lordship gave him such Orders he would lose his life if 
he did not perform it : we soon brought his lord to 
give that order, though privately, and we immediately 
prepared for the putting it in practica. 

And, first, as soon as it began to be dark, we kin- 



298 LIFE AND ADVENTURBS 

dled a fire in our little camp, which we kept bttrning, 
and prepared so as to make it burn all night, that tfae 
l'artars might conclude we were still there ; bot as 
soon as it was dark, and we could see the stars, (for 
our guide would not stir before) having all our horses 
and cameis ready loaded, we foUowed our new guide, 
wfao I soon found steered himself by the north star. 

After we had travelled two hours very hard, it be- 
gan to be lighter still ; not that it was quite dark all 
night, but the moon began to rise, so that, in short, it 
was rather lighter than we wished it to be ; but by six 
o'clock the next morning we were got above thirty 
miles, having almost spoiled our horses. Here w« 
found a Kussian village, named Kermazinskpy, whei« 
we rested, and heard nothing of the Ralmuck Tartan 
that day. About two hours before night we set out 
again, and travelled tili eight the next morning, thoagh 
not quite so hard as before ; and about seven o'clock 
we passed a little river, called Rirtza, and came to a 
good large town inhabited by Russians, called Ozo- 
moys : there we heard that several troops of Kalmucks 
had been abroad on the desert, but that we were now 
completely out of danger of them, which was to our 
greatsatisfaction. Here we were obliged to get some 
fresh horses; and having need enough of rest, we 
stayed iive days ; and my partner and I agreed to give 
tfae honest Siberian who brought ifs thither the value 
of ten pistoles. 

In nve days more we came to Veuslima, oi^ the 
river Wirtzogda, and running into the Dwina: we 
were there, very happily, near the end of our traveb 
by land, that river being navigable, in seven days 
passage, to Archangel. From hence we came to Lav- 
renskoy the 3d of July ; and providing ourselves with 
two luggage-boats, and a bärge for our own conveni- 
ance, we embarked tlie 7th, and arrived all safe at 
Archangel the 18th ; having been a year, five months, 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 299 

and three days oa the journey, including our stay of 
eight months at Tobolski. We were obliged to stay 
at this place six weeks for the arrival of the ships, and 
must have tarried longer had not a Hamburgher come 
in above a month sooner than any of the English ships ; 
wfaen, after some consideration that the city of Ham- 
burgh might faappen to be as good a market for our 
goods as London, we all took freight with him ; and, 
having put our goods on board, it was most natural for 
me to put my Steward on board to take care of them ; 
by wfaich means my young lord had a sufficient oppor- 
tunity to tonceal himself, nevcr Coming on shore again 
all the time we stayed there ; and this he did that he 
migfat not be seen in the city, where some of-the Mos- 
<x>w merchants would certainly have seen and dis- 
Govered him. 

We then set sail from Archangel the 20th of 
August, the same year ; and" after no extraordinary 
bad voyage, arrived safe in the Elbe the 18th of Sep- 
tember. Here my partner and I found a very good 
aale for our goods, as well those of China as the 
sables, &c. of Siberia ; and dividing the produce, my 
flhare amounted to £3475 17s. 3c/. including about 
six hundred pounds worth of diamonds which I pur- 
chased at Bengal. 

Here the young lord took bis leave of us, and 
went up the Elbe, in order to go to the court of Vi- 
enna, where he resolved to seek protection, and could 
oorrespond with those of his father's friends who were 
left alive. He did not part without testimonies of gra- 
titade for the Service I had done him, and his sense of 
my kindness to the prince his father. 

To conclude, having stayed near four months in 
Hamborgh, I came from thence by land to the Hague, 
where I embarked in the packet, and arrived in Lon- 
don the lOth of January, 170d; having been absent 
from England ten years and nine months. And here 



dOO LIFE AND ADVENTURES, ScC. 

I resolved to prepare for a looger journey than all 
these, having Uvea a life of infinite yariety seventy- 
two years, and learned sufficiently to know the value 
of retürement, aqd the blessing of ending oar days in 
peace. 



ACCOUNTS 



OF THK 



ISLAND OF JUAN FERNANDEZ, 



AKD OF 



ALEXANDER SELKIRK. 



'';•. 



JUAN FERNANDEZ. 



The following accounts of the Island of Juan Feh- 
NANDEZ by Lord AKson, and others, together 
with the Story of an Indian who had been left 
tfaere, and of Alexander Selkirk, will be read 
with interest, as an Appendix to Robinson 
Crusoe. 

'' It were endless to recite minutely the varioiis 
disasters, fatigues, and terrors, which we encountered 
on this CQast (South America). All these went on 
increasing until the 22d of May, at which time the 
fury of all the storms which we had hitherto enooun- 
tered, seemed to be combined, and to have conspirad 
our destruction. In this hurricane almost all our sails 
were split, and great part of our standing riggin^ 
broken ; and about eight in the «yening, a moun- 
tainous oyergrown sea took us on our starboard quar- 
(er, and gave us so prodigious a shock, that seyeral of 
our shrouds broke with the jerk, by which our masts 



904 ISLAlril OF 

were greatly endangered ; our bailast and stores too 
were so strangely shifted, that the ship heeled after- 
wards two streaks to port. Indeed, it was a most tre- 
mendous blow, and we were thipwn into the utmost 
oonsternation from the apprehensiön «f instantly foun- 
dering ; and though the wind abated in a few hours, 
yet as we had no more sails left in a conditionto 
bend to our yards^llie ship labored very much in a hol- 
low sea, roUing gunwale-to, for want of sail to steady 
her : so that we expected our masts, whicif were now 
very slenderly supported, to come by the board every 
moment. Howeyer, we exerted oorselTes ihe best 
we could to stirrup our shrouds, to reeve new kn- 
yardsy and to mend our sails : but while these neces- 
sary Operations were carrying on» w# ran great risk of 
being driven on shore on the ' island of Chiloe, whicb 
was not far distant from us ; but in the midst of our 
peril the wind happily shifted to the southward, and 
we steered ofF the land with the main-sail only ; the 
master and myself undertaking the management of the 
heim, while eyery one eise on board was busied io 
securing the masts, and bending the sails, as fast as 
they could be repaired. 

*' And now, having cruised in vain fat more than a 
fortnight in quest of the other ships of the squadron ; 
it was resolved to take the advantage of the ofiing we 
had made from this terrible coast, and to make the 
beat of our way for the island of Juan Fernandei. 
Indeed we had the greatest reason to suspect that all 
but ourselves had perished. We were by this time 
reduced to so low a conditioil, that our utmost hopetf 



JUAN J^ktNANDEZ. 305 

could only suggest to u^ the possibility of saving the 
ship, and some part ofthe remaining enfeebled crew. 

'' Our deplorat>Ie Situation, then, allowing no room 
for deliberatioo, we stood for the Island of Juan Fer- 
nandez ; and towBa^ time, which was now extremely 
precious, (our men dying four, five, and six in a day) 
and likewise to avoid being engaged again with a lee 
shore, we resolved, if possible, toftit the Island on a 
meridian ; and on the 28th of May, being nearly in the 
parallel ob which it is laid down, we had great expec- 
tatioos of seeing it ; but liot finding it in the position 
in which the charts had taught us to expect it, we be- 
gan to fear that we had gone too far to the westward ; 
and« therefore, though the commodore himself was 
stfongly persuadfd that he saw it on the morning of 
the 28th of May ; yet his officers believing it to be 
only a cloud, it was, on a consultation, resolved to 
stand to the eastward, in the parallel of the Island. 
On the 30th of May we had a view of the continent of 
Chili : though by this view.of the land we ascertained 
our position, yetit gave us great uneasiness to find 
that we had so needlessly altered our course, when we 
werein all probability just on the point of makingthe 
iflüand ; for the mortality amongst us was now increa- 
sed to a most dreadful degree. Our water too began to 
grow scarce; so that a general dejection prevailed 
SMongst US, which added much to the virulence of the 
disease. In this desponding condition, with a crazy 
ship, and not above teu foremast men in a watch ca- 
pable of doing duty, and even some of these lame, and 
unable to go aloft ; we stood to the westward, and on 

VOL. II. u 



300 lSLAK#OF 

the 9th of June, at day-break» we at last discovered 
the long-'wished for island of Jultii Fernandez. 

'' Though, OD the tirst yiew, it appeared to be a very 
mountainous place, extremely ryged and irregulär; 
yet as it was land, and the land ^ sought for, it was 
to US a most agreeable sight : for we were by this time 
reduced to so helpless a condition, that out of two 
hundred and odd ften, which remained alive, wecould 
not, taking all our watches together, muster hands 
enough to work the ship on an emergency ; though we 
included the officers, the servants, and the boys. 

'< The wind being northerly, we kept plying all that 
day, and the next night, in order to get in with the 
land ; and wearing the ship in the middle watch, we 
had a melancholy instance of the almest incredible de* 
bility of our people ; for the lieutenant could muster 
no more than two quarter-masters, and six foremast 
men capable of working ; so that without the assist* 
ance of the ofiScers, servants, and boys, it might have 
proved impossible for us to have reached the bland, 
after we had got sight of it ; and, even with this assist- 
ance, they were two hours in trimming the sails. 

*' However, on the tenth, in the afternoon, being 
now nearer the shore, we could discover that the bro» 
ken craggy preeipices were far from barren, being in 
most places covered with woods ; and that between 
them there were every wbere interspersed the finest 
Valleys, clothed with a most beautiful verdure, and 
watered with numerous streams and cascades; no va^ 
fcy.Qf any extent being unprovided of its proper rill. 
The aspect of this counl^y thus diversified^ would at 



JUAN VKRNANDEZ. 307 

M fimes have been extremely delightful ; but in our 
distressed Situation, languisbing as we were for th^ 
landy and its vegetable productions, it is scarcely cre- 
dible with what eaigerness and transport we viewed the 
sbore. Those only'wbo have endured a long series of 
thirst, can judge of the emotion with |vhich we eyed a 
large cascade of the most transparent water, which 
poured itself from a rock, near a bundred feet high, 
into the sea, at a small distance from the ship. Even 
those amongst the diseased, who were not in the very 
last stages of the distemper, (the scurvy,) though they 
faad been long confined to their hammocks, exerted 
the small remains of strength that were left them, and 
crawled up the deck, to feast themselves with this 
reviying prospeol. Thus we coasted the sbore, fully 
employed in the contemplation of this enchanting 
landscape : but at last the night closed on us, before we 
had satisfied ourselves which was the proper bay to an- 
chor in. 

'^ At four in the morning, the cutter was despatched 
with our third lieutenai^t to find out the bay ^ we were 
in search of ; who returned again at noon, with the 
boat laden with seals and grass : for though the island 
abounded with better vegetables, yet the boat's crew 
in their short stay had not met with them ; and they 
well knew that even grass would prove a dainty, as 
indeed it was all soon and eagerly devoured. 

** The next morning the weather proving favorable, 

1 Commodore Anson anchored in Camberland Bay, the middle- 
QKMit ouibe nortb«m aide of the Island : he describes it as being 
the best read for shippüig, and well secured to the southward : ü 
ifl only «zposed from the N. by W. to the £. by S. 



906 ISLAND OF 

we endearored to weigh ; but though on this occasioii 
we mustered all the strength we could, obliging even 
tbe sick, who were scarce able to keep on their legs, 
to assist US ; yet the capstan was so weakly manned, 
that it was ncar four hours before we . hove the cable 
right up and down : after which, with our utmost 
efforts, and with many surges, and some purchases we 
made use of, to increase our power, we found ourselves 
incapable of starting the anchor from the ground. 
However, at noon, as a fresh gale blew towards the 
bay, we were induced to set the sails» which for- 
tunately tripped the anchor; and then we steered 
along shore until we came abreast of the point that 
forms the eastern part of the bay. On the openiog of 
the bay, the wind, that had befriended us thus far, 
shifted, and blew from thence in squalls; but, by 
meaiis of tbe headway we had got, we looped. close in 
tili the anchor brought us up in 56 fathoms/' 



In respect to the discovery of this island, it is 
said that a Spanish pilot named Juan Fernandez was 
the ürst who ventnred to make the experiment of 
Standing to a distance from the south-western coast 
of America, *' where he found the winds favorable 
for getting to the south ; and by running in that di- 
rection, until he was beyond the influence of the trade 
wind, he regained the coast without difficulty ; making 
the passage much more expeditiously than it could 
have been perforined by the in-shore navigation. In 
these new and circuitous tracks, several islands were 
found not far to the west of the American continent. 



JUAN FERNANDEZ. 300 

The Order in which they became known is not stateiL 
here with certainty. The earliest date concernin' 
them that has been met with in the present investl- 
gation, is given to two islands named, one of them 
after its discoverer, Jüan Fernandez, and the other, 
being more distant from the continent, Mas-a-fuera 
(more without). According to the dictionary of Al- 
cedo, these islands were first seen in 1 563." 

Juan Fernandez was afterwards much frequented 
by the South Sea buccaneers ; and in the year 1630 
was yisited by Captain Bartholomew Sharpe, whö 
finding it uninhabited, and probably being ignorant 
of its original discoverei:, gave it the name of Queen 
Katherine's Island. At bis departure, as if this island 
were destined to form repeatedly the solitude of some 
nnfortunate mariner, the foUowing event took place. 
On the 12th of January in the ensuing year, 1631, 
these buccaneers, having taken the command of theiir 
ship from Captain Sharpe, and given it to Captain 
Watlin, and observing three sail of Spaniards hoyer- 
ing about the island, bastened pn board, without wait- 
ing for a poor Indian who at that time happened to 
be in the woods. Captain Cowley, on bis arrival at 
the island in March 1684, found him still living. 
** Now the man, when he saw our ships, presently fan- 
cied US to be English, and thereon went and catched 
two goats, and dressed them against our men came on 
shore ; there being several of our ship's Company who 
were at the leaving of this Indian there by Captain 
Sharpe, and among others Captain Edward Cooke 
and Mr. William Dampier." 



310 ISLAND OF 

^ From the latter some further particulars are learned 
^f this early and interesiing Crusoe. ** The Indian 
lived here alone abore three y^irs ; and altbough he 
was several times sought after by the Spaniards, who 
knew he was left on the Island, yet they could never 
und him. He was in the woods hunting for goats, 
wben Captain Watlin drew ofF bis men, and the ship 
was under sali before he came back to the shore. He 
had with him bis gun and a knife, witb a small hörn 
of powder, and a few shot ; which being spent, he 
contrived a way, by notehing bis kntfe, to saw the 
barrel of his gun into small pieces, wherewith he made 
harpoons, lances, hooks, and a long knife ; beating 
the pieees first in the fire, which be Struck with his 
gun flint, and a piece of the barrel of his gun which 
be bardened, having learnt to do that among the £n- 
giisb. The bot pieees of iron be would hammer out 
and bend as be pleased with stones, and saw them 
witb his jagged knife ; or grind them to an edge by 
long labor, and barden them to good temper as there 
was occasion. All this may seem stränge to those 
that are not aequainted witb the sagacity of the Id- 
dians ; but it is no more tban these Moskito men are 
accustomed to in their own country, wbere they make 
their own iishing and striking instruments withoufc 
either forge or anvil, thougb they spend a good deal 
of time about them. 

'' Witb such instruments as be made in tbat man- 
ner, he got such provisions as the island afforded, 
either goats or fish. He told us, that at first be was 
forced to eat seal, which is very ordinary meat, before 



JUAN F1$RNANDE2S. 311 

he had made hooks : but afterwards he nerer killed 
liny seals but to make lines, cutting their skins intoP 
thongs. He had a small housß, or hut, half a mile 
from the sea, whicb was lined with goats' skins : hia 
couch, or barbecu of sticks lying along about two feet 
distant from the ground, was spread with the same, 
and was all his bedding. He had no clotbiBs left, 
having worn out those he brought from Watlin's ship^ 
but only a skin about his waist. He saw our ship the 
day before we came to an anchor, and did belieye we 
were English ; and therefore killed three goats in 
the morning» before we came to an anchor, and dressed 
them with cabbage to treat us, when we came ashore : 
he came then to the sea side to congratulate our safe 
arrival. And when we landed, a Moskito Indian, 
named Robin, first leaped ashore, and ruaning to his 
brother Moskito man, threw himself flat on his face» 
at his feet ; who helping bim up, and embracing him, 
feil flat with his face on the ground at Robin's feet« 
and was by him taken up also. We stood with plea-* 
aure to behold the surprise and tenderness, and so- 
lemnity of tbis interview, which was exceedingly af- 
fectionate on both sides ; and when their ceremoniea 
of civility were over, we also, that stood gazing at 
them, drew near, each of us embracing him we had 
found here, who was overjoyed to see so many of his 
old friends come hither as he thought purposely to 
fetch him. He was named Will, as the other was 
Hobin. These were names given them by the En-« 
glish, for they have no names among themselves ; and 
ihey take it as a great favor to be named by any of 



312 ISLAND OF 

^s; and will complain for want of it, if we do not 
^ppoint them some name wlieii they are wiih us, 
saying of themselves, They are poor men, and have 
no name !" ^ 

The above-mentioned anecdote is also inserted by 
Captain Edward Cooke in bis valuable account of a 
Voyage round tbe World (1708 — 1711), who being 
attached to a squadron of privateers tben fitted out at 
Bristol on a Soutb Sea expedition, accompanied Cap- 
tain Woodes Rogers, and was present at bis interview 
witb Alexander Selkirk. Captain Cooke follows up 
tbe description given by Ovalle, and Scbouten, of tbe 
Island of Juan Femandez, witb one by Ringrose, the 
writer of Captain Sbarpe's Pracücal Voyage in the 
Soutb Sea: '' Here are two islands together, the 
biggest wbereof is tbree leagues and an half in length. 
As we approached, both islands seemed to us nothing 
but one entire beap of rocks. That which lies more to 
the north is highest, tbough we could not see the tops 
thereof for the clouds which covered it. In most 
places it is so steep, that it looks almost perpendicular. 
I found the latitude here 33^ 45' soutb. We came to 
an anchor at the south end of the Island, in a stately 
bay we found there, but which lies open from the 
south to the S.E. winds ; anehored in eleyen fathom 
water, and only one furlong from the shore. We sent 
a canoe to discover whether we could find any riding 
secure from the soutb wind, which most constantly 
blows on that coast ; and sent some men ashore to 
drive goats, whereof there is plenty in the island. The 

> Dampier 's Voyages, vol. i. p. 84. 



JUAN FERNANDEZ. 513 

canoe returning, reported that there was good ridiiu^ 
in another bay, on the north side of the Island, in fou^ 
teen fathom wa,ter, and not aböve a quartcr of a mile 
from the shore, and that there was good wooding; 
whereas in the place where we had at first anchored^ 
there was not a stick of wood, or tuft of grass to be 
found. The next day we had a tempest of violent 
Winds, and fierce showers of rain. The same day we 
got in two hundred jars of water, bringing them a Call 
league from the place of our riding. The 28th of De- 
oember, 1709, I went with two canoes to fetch water ; 
but could not get aboard again, by reason of a fierce 
southerly wind blowing in from the land, which obliged 
US to wait a more favorable opportunity. In the 
mean while, the wind increasing, our ship was forced 
to get under sail, not without danger of being forced 
ashore ; and made away to seek another anchoring 
place. In the e venin g we ventured out in the canoes, 
and were forced to throw all our jars of water over- 
board, the wind was so high ; ypt came that night to 
the harbour, where we expectea to have found our 
ship : but she was not there ; for which reason we called 
it False Wild Harbour. Not knowing what to do, we 
went ashore, and, leaving our canoes dry, walked up 
into the Island along a gully for the space of half a 
mile, to get from the noise of the seals, which wevs 
troublesome on the shore. We kindled a fire, dried 
our clothes, and rested all night, though very hungry. 
The next morning we went farther north, to seek cor 
ship, and soon spied her at sea : whereon we passed 
a point of land, entered a bay about a mile in depth. 



314 ISLAND OF 

Cid not above half a mile over, "where we landed, and 
ade a fire for the ship to see where we were, At 
night we made our bed of fern. Cur ship was forced 
to ply off and on, until the 30th of December. Our 
pilot told US, that a ship had been cast away many 
years since on the island, and only one man saved, 
who lived there alone üve years before any ship came 
to carry him off. Here is a sort of trees called bilby, 
and cabbage trees, the tops whereof are eaten as we de 
cabbage in England. There is such plenty of fish, that 
I have taken some on the surface of the water with a 
hpok that had no bait to it. Some are of twenty 
pounds weight, and the smallest two pounds. The 
island affords very good timber. Thus far Ringrose^ 
in the Buccaneers of America." 

This island, so celebrated for having given birth 
to the romance of Kobinson Crusoe, forms a most 
commodious and desirable place for ships to stop at 
when stationed in the South Sea. The Voyage of 
Captain Edward Cooke is scarce, and but little 
known. He says c3r the island, that ** it lies in the 
latitude of 33° 49' south, latitude from St. Mary's 5° 
38' ; meridian distance from the same 4° 43' west 
The Variation of the compass here, 6° 0' east. This 
island is high rugged land, in length about six ieagues, 
and about three in breadth. I know of nothing about 
it, that may endanger a ship, but what niay be seen. 
We anchored in the great bay, our best bower in forty 
fathom water, and theu carried the stream anchor in 
with the shore ; which we let go in about thirty fa« 

* Captain Edward Cooke's Voyage, vol. i. p. lOT — 111. 



JÜAN FERNANDEZ. 315 

tbom water, mooring on and ofF, about a mile fron^ 
the bottom of tbe bay, where we found plenty of fish 
of several sorts, and very large craw-fish. The wind 
here commonly blows ofF the shore ; sometimes very 
hard squails, eise generally calm, and the water we 
rode in very smooth, by reason of the winding of thet 
shore. The man we found here told me, it had never 
blown in above four hours, all the time he was there. 
Tbe Situation of the island is N.W. and S.E. It is 
all hills and Valleys ; and I question not would pro* 
duce most plants if nianured; for the soil in most 
places promises well, and there are some turnips, and 
other roots, which I suppose were formerly sown, and 
there is great plenty of wood and water. In every 
bay there are such multitudes of great sea Hons, and 
seals of several sorts, all with excellent fürs, that we ' 
could scarce walk along the shore ; some of the sea 
lions are as big as our English oxen, and roar like 
lions. They cut near a foot in fat. These we kill 
chiefly to make oil, which is ven^ood." 

In more recent times this islana has been frequently 
visited by vessels either sailing to or returning from 
the eastern coast of South America. 

The Story of Alexander Selkirk was first made 
known in 1712, by Captain Woodes Rogers, and was 
tberefore published seven years before Robinson Cm« 
»oe appeared. " When the book was first published/' 
says a writer in the Biographia Britannica, ** the au* 
thor was so far from being accused with having taken 
his book from any manuscripts of Alexander Selkirk*s, 
or from any personal conversations with him, that th« 



316 ACCOUNT OP 

great charge against him was, that the story was 
feigned ; that it was all a romance ; that there never 
was any such man, or place, or circumstances in any 
man's life ; that it was all formed and embellished by 
invention to impose on the world. This objection'to 
bis book. De Foe found it very difficult to answer. 
However, at length, in order to remove all such ob- 
jections, and to prevent any farther doubt, or possi- 
bility of doubt, on the subject, he published a decla- 
ration, in a preface to the Serious Reflections of Ro- 
binson Crusoe, signed by Robinson Crusoe himself; 
and part of which is as follows : — * I, Robinson Cro- 
son, being at this time in perfect and sound memory, 
(thanks be to God therefore,) do hereby declare, their 
objection is an invention, scandalous in design, and 
false in fact ; and do affirm, that the story, thdugfa 
allegöricalj is also historical ; and that it is the beau- 
tlful representation of a life of unexampled misfor- 
tunes, and of a variety not to be met with in the 
World; sincerely adapted to, and intended for the 
common good of mankind ; and designed at first,' as 
it is now farther applied, to the most serious uses pos- 
sible.' " 

The story of Selkirk, as given by Captain Woodes 
Rogers, who visited the island of Juan Fernandez in 
February 1709, without doubt formed the materials 
which the glowing imagination of the author of Crusoe 
afterwards so admirably arranged. It is as follows : 

" Our pinnace returned from the shore (ofF the island 
of Juan Fernandez), and brought abundance of craw 
üsh, with a man clothed in goat skins, who looked 



ALEXANDER SELKIRK. 317 

wilder than the first owners of them. He had boen 
on the Island foiir years and four months, being left 
there by Captain Stradling in the Cinque Ports : his 
name was Alexander Selkirk, a Scotchman, who had 
been master of the Cinque Ports, a ship that came here 
last with Captain Dampier, who told me that this was 
the best man in her; so I immediately agreed.w^th 
him to be a mate on board our ship. 'Twas he that. 
made the fire last night when he saw our ships, which 
he judged to be English. During his stay here he saw 
several ships pass by, but only two came to anchof. 
As he weut to yiew them, he found them to bo Spa- 
niards, and retired from them ; on which they shot at 
him. Had they been Preqch he would have sub- 
mitted ; but chose to risk his dying alone on the island, 
rather than fall into the hands of the Spaniards in 
these parts ; because he apprehended they would mur- 
der him, or make a slaye of him in the mines : for he 
feared they would spare no stranger that might be ca- 
pable of discovering the South ,Sea. The Spaniards 
had landed before he knew what they were, and they 
came so near him that he had much ado to escape ; for 
they not only shot at him,. but pursued him into the 
woods, where he climbed to the top of a tree, at the 
foot of which they killed several goats just by ; but 
went off again without discovering him. He told us 
that he was born at Largo, in the county of Fife in 
Scotland, and was bred a sailor from his youth. The 
reason of his being left here was a difference betwixt 
him and his captain ; which, together with the ship's 
being leaky, made him willing rather to stay here. 



3ia ACCOUNT OF 

than go along with him at first ; and when he was at 
last willing, the captain would not receive bim. He 
had beeil in the Island before to wood and water; 
when two of the ship's Company were left on it for siz 
months tili the ship returned, being chased then by 
two French South Sea ships. 

'^ He had with him bis clothes and bedding, with s 
firelock, some powder, buUets, and tobacco, an hatchet, 
a knife, a kettle, a Bible, some practical pieces, and 
bis mathematical instruments and books. He diverted 
and provided for himself as well as he could ; bnt for 
the first eight months had much ado to bear up against 
melancholy, and the terror of being left alone in such 
a desolate place. He built two huts with pimento 
trees, covered them with long graäs, and lined them 
with the skins of goats, which he killed with bis gun 
as he wanted, so long as bis powder lasted, which was 
but a pound ; and that being near spent, he got fire 
by rubbing two sticks of pimento wood together on 
bis knee. In the lesser hut, at some distance from the 
other, he dressed bis victuals, and in the larger he 
slept ; and employed himself in reading, singing psalms, 
and praying : so that he said he was a better Christian 
while in this solitude than ever he was before, or 
than, he was afraid, he should ever be again. At first 
he never ate any thing until hunger constrained him, 
partly from grief, and partly for want of bread and 
Salt ; nor did he go to bed until he could watch no 
longer: the pimento wood, which burnt very clear, 
served him both for firing and candle^ and refreshed 
him with its fragrant smell. 



ALEXANDER SELKIRK. 319 

** He night have had fish enough, but could not 
eat them for want of salt, because they occasioned a 
kxMseness ; except craw-^fish, which are there as large 
as lobsters, and yery good : these he sometimes boiled, 
and at other times broiled, as he did his goats' filesh, 
of which he made very good broth, for they are not so 
rank as ours. He kept an aceount of five hundred 
that he killed while there, and caught as many more, 
which he marked on the ear and let go. When his 
powder failed, he toök them by speed of foot ; for his 
way of living, and continual exercise of Walking and 
ninning, cleared him of all gross humours ; so that he 
ran with wonderful swiftness through the woods and 
ap the rocks and hills — as we perceived when we «^m- 
ployed him to catch goats for us : we had a buli dog 
whfoh we sent with several of our nimblest runners, to 
help him in catching goats ; but he distanced and 
tired both the dog and the men ; caught the goats, 
and brought them to us on his back. He told us that 
his agiiity in pursuing a goat had once like to have 
cost him his life : ' he pursued it with so much eager* 
nes8, that he caught hold of it on the brink of a pre- 
cipice, of which he was not aware, the bushes having 
hid it from him ; so that he feil with the goat down 
the precipice a great height, and was so stunned and 
bruised with the fall, that he narrowly escaped with 
his life ; and, when he came to his senses, found the 
goat dead under him. He lay there about twenty-four 
hours, and was scarcely able to crawl to his hut, which 
was about a mile distant, or to stir abroad again in ten 
days, . 



320 ACCOUNT OP 



r t 



** He came at last to relish bis meat well enough 
without Salt or bread ; and in the seasoii had plenty« 
of good turnips, wbich had been sowed there by Cap- 
tain Dampier's men» and have now overspread some 
acres of ground. He had enough of good cabbage 
from the cabbage-trees, and seasoned his meat with 
the fruit of the pimento trees, which is the same as 
the Jamaica pepper, and smells deliciously. He found 
there also a black pepper, called Malagita. 

*' He soon wore out all bis shoes and clothes by 
running through the woods; and at last bei ogforced 
to shift without them, his feetbecame so hard, thai 
he ran every where without annoyances : and it was 
some time before he could wear shoes after we found 
bim ; for not being used to any so long, his feet swelled 
when he came first to wear them again. * 

'^ After he had conqjuered bis melancholy, he di- 
verted himself sometimes by cutting his name on the 
trees, and the time of his being left, and continuance 
there. He was at first mueh pestered with cats and 
rats, that had bred in great numbers from some of 
each speeies which had got ashore from ships that put 
in there to wood and water. The rats gnawed his 
feet and clothes while asleep, which obliged him to 
cherish the cats with his goats' fiesh ; by which many 
of them became so tarne, that they would lie about 
him in hundreds, and soon delivered him from the 
rats. He likewise tamed some kids ; and to divert 
himself, would now and then sing and dance with 
them and his cats : so that by the care of Providenoe 
and Tigor of his youth, being now about thirty years 



ALEXANDER SELKIRK. 321* 

oM, he came at hst to oonquer all the inconvenienoe 
of hia solitude^ and to be very easy^ Wben hia elethea 
wore out, he made himself a ccmI and cap of goat*' 
akias^ which he stitched together with little tiiongs of 
the same, that he cut with his knife;i He had no' 
other needle but a aaH ; and wben hifi kiiife was worn 
to the back» he made olhers as well as he coald of 
some iroa hoops thal were left ashore, which he beat 
thin and ground on stones. Haying some Knea cloth 
by him» he sewed himself shirts with a nai!, and stitch« 
ed them with the worsted of his cid jtockings^ which 
be pulled out on purpose. He had his last slurt on 
when we found bim on the island. 

^' At his first Coming oa board us, he had so mach 
forgot hb language for want of use» that we couM 
scarcely understand him, for he seemed to speak his 
words by halves. We offered him a dram, but he 
would not touch it» having drunk nothing bot water 
since Ins being there, and it was some tiiae before he 
Gould relish our victuak. 

'' He could give us an aecount of no other {»oduct 
of the island thaa what we have mentioned ; except 
small black plums, which are very good, but hard 
to come at; the trees which beur them growing on 
high mountains and rocks. Pimente trees are plenty 
here» and we saw some of sixty feet high, and about 
two yards thick ; aad cotton trees higher, and near 
four fathom round in the stock. The climate is so 
good, that the trees and grass are verdaat all theyear 
The winter lasts no longer than Juae and July, and is 
not then severe ; there being oaly a small frost, and a 

VOL. II. X 



322 ACCOUNT OF 

Utile heal, but.sometimes great rains. The beat of 
the Summer is .equally> moderate; and there is not* 
much tbunder or. tempestuous ^ weather of aoy sort. 
He saw.no venomous or saya^e creature on the Island, 
uor any other sort of beastbut goats, &c. as-above 
mentioned; the .first of.which had been put ashore 
here . on - purpose for a breed - by Juan > Fernando^ a 
Spaniard, who setüed there with some iamilies for 
a time, until the continent.of Chili begaii tosubmit 
to the Spaniards, which being more profitable, tempted 
them to quit this island; which is eapable of main- 
taining a good number of people, and of being made 
so strong that they could not be easily dislodg^.-' 

Selkirk returned with Captain Woodes llogers, 
who remained about a fortnight at Juan Fernandez ; 
and arrived in England by way of the Fast Indies 
on the first of October, 1711, having been absent 
eight years. He seems to have been born about the 
year 1676, and to have left England in the Cinque 
Ports galley during 1703. His being abandoned on 
the island eventually proved a blessing ; for the 
Cinque Ports ran ashore a few months after they had 
forsook him : the captain and crew were taken pri- 
soners by the Spaniards, and suffered great hardships. 
Sir Richard Steele often saw Selkirk after his ar- 
rival ; and in his periodical work, ** The English- 
man," notices his singular history : " When I first 
saw him," adds Sir Richard, ** I thought, if I had not 
been let into his character and story, I could have dis- 
cerned that he had been much separated from Com- 
pany, from his aspect and gesture. There was a strong 



ALEXANDERE SBLKIRK. 32!3 

but cheerful seriousness in his look, and a certain 
diöregard to the ordinary tbings about him, as if be 
had been sunk in tbougbt. When* tHe shijp wbich 
brought him off tbe island came in, he received them 
with the greatest indi£ference witli ■ relation to the 
prospect of going off with them ; but with great satis- 
faction in an opportunity to refresh and help them. 
The man frequently bewailed his return to the world> 
.which could not, he said, with all its enjoyments, 
restore him to the tranquillity of his solitude. Though 
I had frequently conversed with him, after a few 
months' absence he met me in tbe street, and though 
he spoke to me, I could not recoUect that I had seen 
him : familiär converse in this town had taken off 
the loneliness of his* aspect, and quite altered bis 
face." 

This piain man's story is a memorable example 
that he is the happiest who confines his wants to 
natural necessities : and he that goes farther in bis 
desires, increases his wants in proportion to his ac- 
quisitions; or, to use his own expression, *' I am now 
worth' eight hundred pöunds, but shall * never be so 
happy as when I was not worth a fartbing.'^ 

A report prevailed many years ago, that De Foe, 
after all, was not the real author of Robinson Crusoe. 
This assertion is noticed in an article in the seventh 
volume of the Edinburgh Magazine. Dr. Towers, in 
his Life of De Foe, in the Biographia, is wisely in- 
clined to pay no attention to it. The foUowing letter 
also appeared in the Gentleman 's Magazine for 
1788. 



924 LBTTKA BESPJICTINC^ DE FOE. 

<* Dubha, Eefm 
*' Mr. UjtBAN, 

*'^ In tlie course of a late «oiiversation with t 
man of tfae first «onsequence and informatioi 
idngdoni, he assured me^ ihat Mr. Benjanun 
way, of Middleton Stony, assured him, sod 
agOy that he knew for fact, Ümt the celebrt 
mane^ of Robinson Crusoe was really writtei 
Eatl of Oxford, wben confined in the Tower i 
don ; that his lordship gare the manuseript to 
De Foe, who frequently visited him during his < 
ment ; and that De Foe, having afterwards ad 
eecond rolume, pnblished the whole as his 01 
dnction. Tbis anecdote I would not venture 
to your valuable Magazine, if I did not think 
formation good, and imagine it migfat be acc 
to your numerous readers ; notwithstanding tl 
has heretofore been generally attributed to the 

*• W. ' 

> No credibility can attach to this letter in the mii 
sensible pereon. 



THE END. 



PBIHlfD BY A. J. VALPY, RED LION COURT, FLEET ST 



This book should be returned 
; Library on or "before the last date l! 
Btamped below. 

A fine is iticurred by retaining it | 
wyond the specißed time. 
Please returp promptly. 




