Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 




Tk gift of 

£ban F. Draper 



[tat HARVARD COL LEGE LIB RARYJSJ^ 



* m- 



ROMANCES AND NARRATIVES BY 

DANIEL DEFOE 

Edited by GEORGE A. AITKEN 

IN SIXTEEN VOLUMES 

VOL. II 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 

VOL. II 



\ 



'T^HE FARTHER 

^ Adventures of 

ROBINSON CRUSOE 

Being the Second and Last 
Part of his Life ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ By 
DANIEL DEFOE 



Edited 


by 


GEORGE 


A. 


AITKEN 








with 






Illustrations 


by J. 


B. 


YEATS 



London 4> 4» 4> 4> Published by 
J. M. DENT & Co. Aldine House 
69 Great Eastern Street, E.G. 

MDCCCXCV 



^^'/<^Z ^^ 



t 



(A' 





LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 
The AFFEcnoNATB bbhaviouii of my wifs 

BROUGHT ME A UTTI.E OUT OF THB 

BehOU] HE FUYETH .... Page l\^ 

I COULD NOT BEAR THB SIGHT . . . „ 101 



AUTHOR'S PREFACE. 



THE success the former part of this work has met 
with io the world, has yet been no other than Is 
acknowledged to be due to the sucprising variety 
of the subject and to the agreeable manner of the 
performance. 

All the endeavours of envious people to reproach it 
with being a romance, to search it for errors in geo- 
graphy, incaQsiaCency in the relation, and contradictions 
in the fact, have proved abonive, and as impotent as 

The just application of every incident, the reJigious 
and useful inferences drawn from every part, are 80 
many testimonies to the good design of making it 
poblic, acd must legitimate all the part that may be 
called invention or parable in the story. 

The second part, if the Editor's opinion may pass, ia 
(contrary to the usage of second parts) every way as 
entertaining as the first, contains as strange and sur- 
prising incidents, and as great a variety of them ; nor 
is the application less serious and suitable, and doubt- 
less will, to the sober as well as ingenious reader, be 
e»efy way as profitable and diverting ; and this makes 
the abriogiog this work as scandalous as it is knavish 
and ridiculous, seeing, while to shorten the book that 



viii author's preface. 

they may seem to reduce the value, they strip it of al 
those reflections^ as well religious as moral, which an 
not only the greatest beauties of the work, but arc 
calculated for the infinite advantage of the reader. 

By this they leave the work naked of its brightest 
ornaments ; and if they would at the same time pretend 
that the author has supplied the story out of his inven- 
tion, they take from it the improvement which alone 
recommends that invention to wise and good men. 

The injury these men do the proprietor of this worl< 
is a practice all honest men abhor, and he believes he 
may challenge them to show the difference betweei 
that and robbing on the highway, or breaking open t 
house. 

If they can't show any difference in the crime, 
they will find it hard to show why there should be an) 
difference in the punishment ; and he will answer foi 
it that nothing shall be wanting on his part to do them 
justice. 





THH 
FARTHER ADVENTURES 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, &c. 



THAT homely proverb used on so many occasions 
in England, viz., "That what is bred in the 
bone will not go out of the flesh," was nevermore 
vett&ed than in the story of my life. Any one would 
■hink that, after ihirty-five years' aiBiction, and a 
variety of unhappy circumstances, which few men, if 
any, ever went through before, and after near seven 
years of peace and enjoyment in the fulness of all 
things, grown old, and wben, if ever, it might be 
allowed me to have had exjierience of every state of 
middle life, and to know wliich was most adapted to 
make a man completely happy ; I say, after all this, 
any one would have thought that the native propensity 
U> rambling, which I gave an account of in my first 
Ktiing out into the world to have been so predominant 
in my thoughts, should be worn out, the volatile part 
be fiilly evacuated, or at least condensed, and I might, 



2 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

at sixty-one years of age, have been a little inclined to 
stay at home, and have done venturing life and fortune 
any more. 

Nay, farther, the common motive of foreign adven- 
tures was taken away in me ; for I had no fortune to 
make, I had nothing to seek. If I had gained ten 
thousand pounds, I had been no richer; for I had 
already sufficient for me, and for those I had to leave 
it to, and that I had was visibly increasing ; for having 
no great ^mily, I could not spend the income of what 
I had unless I would set up for an expensive way of 
living, such as a great family, servants, equipage, gaiety, 
and the like, which were things I had no notion of, or 
inclination to ; so that I had nothing indeed to do but 
to sit still and flilly enjoy what I had got, and see it 
increase daily upon my hands. 

Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or at 
least not enough to resist the strong inclination I had 
to go abroad again, which hung about me like a 
chronical distemper ; particularly the desire of seeing 
my new plantation in the island, and the colony I left 
there, ran in my head continually. I dreamed of it 
all night, and my imagination ran upon it all day ; it 
was uppermost in all my thoughts, and my fancy worked 
so steadily and strongly upon it, that I talked of it out of 
my sleep. In short, nothing could remove it out of my 
mind ; it even broke so violently into all my discourses, 
that it made my conversation tiresome, for I could 
talk of nothing else ; all my discourse run into it, even 
to impertinence, and I saw it myself. 

I have often heard persons of good judgment say, 
that all the stir people make in the world about ghosts 
and apparitions is owing to the strength of imagination, 
and the powerful operation of fancy in their minds ; 
that there is no such thing as a spirit appearing, or 
a ghost walking, and the like ; that people's poring 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3 

affectionately upon the past conversation of their de- 
ceased friends so realises it to them, that they are 
capable of ^ncying upon some extraordinary circum- 
stances that they see them, talk to them, and are 
answered by them, when, in truth, there is nothing but 
shadow and vapour in the thing, and they really know 
nothing of the matter. 

For my part, I know not to this hour whether there 
are any such things as real apparitions, spectres, or 
walking of people after they are dead, or whether 
there is anything in the stories they tell us of that 
kind, more than the product of vapours, sick minds, 
and wandering fancies. But this I know, that my 
imagination worked up to such a height, and brought 
me into such ecstasies of vapours, or what else I may 
call it, that I actually supposed myself oftentimes upon 
the spot, at my old castle behind the trees, saw my old 
Spaniard, Friday's father, and the reprobate sailors I 
Ic^ upon the island; nay, I fancied I talked with 
them, and looked at them so steadily, though I was 
broad awake, as at persons just before me ; and this I 
did till I often frighted myself with the images my 
fancy represented to me. One time in my sleep I had 
the villainy of the three pirate sailors so lively related to 
me by the first Spaniard and Friday's father, that it 
was surprising. They told me how they barbarously 
attempted to murder all the Spaniards, and that they set 
fire to the provisions they had laid up, on purpose to dis- 
tress and starve them ; things that I had never heard of, 
and that indeed were never all of them true in fact ; 
but it was so warm in my imagination, and so realised 
to me, that to the hour I saw them I could not be 
persuaded but that it was or would be true ; also how 
I resented it when the Spaniard complained to me, 
and how I brought them to justice, tried them before 
me, and ordered them all three to be hanged. What 



4 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

there was really in this, shall be seen in its place ; for 
however I came to form such things in my dream, and 
what secret converse of spirits injected it, yet there 
was very much of it true. I say, I own that this 
dream had nothing in it literally and specifically true ; 
but the general part was so true, the base villainous 
behaviour of these three hardened rogues was such, and 
had been so much worse than all I can describe, that 
the dream had too much similitude of the fact ; and as 
I would afterwards have punished them severely, so if 
I had hanged them all I had been much in the right, 
and should have been justifiable both by the laws of 
God and man. 

But to return to my story. In this kind of temper I 
had lived some years. I had no enjoyment of my life, 
no pleasant hours, no agreeable diversion but what had 
something or other of this in it ; so that my wife, who 
saw my mind so wholly bent upon it, told me very 
seriously one night that she believed there was some 
secret powerful impulse of Providence upon me, which 
had determined me to go thither again ; and that she 
found nothing hindered my going, but my being engaged 
to a wife and children. She told me, that it was true 
she could not think of parting with me ; but as she 
was assured that if she was dead it would be the first 
thing I would do, so, as it seemed to her that the 
thing was determined above, she would not be the only 
obstruction; for if I thought fit, and resolved to go 

here she found me very intent upon her words, 

and that I looked very earnestly at her, so that it a 
little disordered her, and she stopped. I asked her 
why she did not go on, and say out what she was going 
to say. But I perceived her heart was too full, and 
some tears stood in her eyes. ** Speak out, my dear,'* 
said I ; " are you willing I should go ? " "No," says 
she very affi^ ' " « for from willing ; but if 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. S 

you are resolved to go," says she, "and rather than I will 
be the only hindrance, I will go with you ; for though 
I think it a most preposterous thing for one of your 
years, and in your condition, yet if it must be," said 
she again, weeping, " I won't leave you ; for if it be of 
Heaven, you must do it. There is no resisting it ; and 
if Heaven makes it your duty to go, He will also make 
it mine to go with you, or otherwise dispose of me, 
that I may not obstruct it." 

This affectionate behaviour of my wife's brought me 
a little out of the vapours, and I began to consider 
what I was a-doing. I corrected my wandering fancy, 
and began to argue with myself sedately what business 
I had, after threescore years, and after such a life of 
tedious sufferings and disasters, and closed in so happy 
and easy a manner — I say, what business I had to rush 
itito new hazards, and put myself upon adventures fit 
only for youth and poverty to run into. 

With those thoughts, I considered my new engage- 
ment ; that I had a wife, one child born, and my wife 
then great with child of another ; that I had all the 
-world could give me, and had no need to seek hazards 
for gain ; that I was declining in years, and ought to 
think rather of leaving what I had gained, than of 
seeking to increase it ; that as to what my wife had 
said, of its being an impulse from Heaven, and that it 
should be my duty to go, I had no notion of that ; so 
after many of these cogitations, I struggled with the 
power of my imagination, reasoned myself out of it, as I 
believe people may always do in like cases, if they will ; 
and, in a word, I conquered it, composed myself with 
such arguments as occurred to my thought, and which 
my present condition furnished me plentifully with ; and 
particularly, as the most effectual method, I resolved 
to divert myself with other things, and to engage in 
some business that might effectually tie me up from any 



ADVENTURES OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



of ihiB kind ; for I found that thing 
rrturn upon mr chiefly when I was idle, had nothing 
to do, oor anything of moment immediately be- 
fore me. 

To this purpose I bought a little farm in the county J 
of Bedford, and resolved to remove myself thither. I I 
had a little convenient house upon it, and the land about 1 
it I found was capable of great improvement, and that ' 
it was many ways suited to my inclination, which de- 
lighted in cultivating, managing, planting, and improving 
of land ; and particularly being an inland country, I 
was removed from conversing among ships, sailors, and 1 
things relating to the remote part of the world. I 

In a word, I went down to my farm, settled my I 
family, bought me ploughs, harrows, a cart, waggon, 1 
horses, cows, sheep ; and setting seriously to work, 
became in one half year a mere country gentleman. My 
thoughts were entirely taken up in managing my servants, 
cultivating the ground, enclosmg, planting, &c. ; and I 
lived, as I thought, the most agreeable life that nature 
was capable of directing, or that a man always bred to 
niisfortuncs was capable of being retreated to. 

I farmed upon my own land, I had no rent to pay, 
was limited by no articles. I could pull up or cut down 
as I pleased. What I planted was for myself, and what 
I improved was for my family; and having thus left off 
the thoughts of wandering, I had not the least discom- J 
fort in any part of life, as to this world, Now I I 
thought indeed that I enjoyed the middle state of life I 
that my father so earnestly recommended to me, and i 
lived a kind of heavenly life, something like what is 
described by the poet upon the subject of a counii'y life : 



lb felicity, one blow from 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ^ 

unforeseen Providence unhinged me at once ; and not 
only made a breach upon me, inevitable and incurable, 
but drove me, by its consequences, into a deep relapse 
into the wandering disposition ; which, as I may say, 
being bom in my very blood, soon recovered its hold of 
me, and* like the returns of a violent distemper, came 
on with an irresistible force upon me, so that nothing 
3oald make any more impression upon me. This blow 
was the loos of my wife. 

It is not my business here to write an elegy upon my 
wife, give a character of her particular virtues, and 
make my court to the sex by the flattery of a funeral 
semoon. She was, in a few words, the stay of all my 
a£[airs, the centre of all my enterprises, the engine 
that, by her prudence, reduced me to that happy com- 
pass I was in, from the most extravagant and ruinous 
project that fluttered in my head, as above, and did 
more to guide my rambling genius than a mother's 
tears, a father's instructions, a friend's counsel, or my own 
reasoning powers could do. I was happy in listening 
to her tears, and in being moved by her entreaties, and to 
the last degree desolate and dislocated in the world by 
the loss of her. 

When she was gone, the world looked awkwardly 
round me. I was as much a stranger in it, in my thoughts, 
as I was in the Brazils when I went first on shore there ; 
and as much alone, except as to the assistance of servants, 
as I was in my island. I knew neither what to do, or 
what not to do. I saw the world busy round me, one 
part labouring for bread, and the other part squandering 
in vile excesses or empty pleasures, equally miserable, 
because the end they proposed still fled from them ; for 
the man of pleasure every day surfeited of his vice, 
and heaped up work for sorrow and repentance; and 
the men of labour spent their strength in daily strugglings 
for bread to maintain the vital strength they laboured 



f 



8 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

with, 80 living in a daily circulation of sorrow, living 
but to work, and working but to live, as if daily bread 
were the only end of wearisome life, and a wearisome 
life the only occasion of daily bread. 

This put me in mind of the life I lived in my king- 
dom, the island, where I suffered no more corn to 
grow because I did not want it ; and bred no more 
goats, because I had no more use for them ; where the 
money lay in the drawer till it grew mouldy, and 
had scarce the favour to be looked upon in twenty- 
years. 

All these things, had I improved them as I ought 
to have done, and as reason and religion had dictated 
to me, would have taught to me to search farther than 
human enjoyments for a full felicity, and that there was 
something which certainly was the reason and end of 
life, superior to all these things, and which was either 
to be possessed, or at least hoped for, on this side the 
grave. 

But my sage counsellor was gone ; I was like a ship 
without a pilot, that could only run afore the wind. 
My thoughts ran all away again into the old affair ; my 
head was quite turned with the whimsies of foreign 
adventures ; and all the pleasant innocent amusements of 
my farm and my garden, my cattle and my family, which 
before entirely possessed me, were nothing to me, had 
no relish, and were like music to one that has no ear, 
or food to one that has no taste. In a word, I resolved 
to leave off housekeeping, let my farm, and return to 
London ; and in a few months after I did so. 

When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as I 
was before. I had no relish to the place, no employ- 
ment in it, nothing to do but to saunter about like an 
idle person, of whom it may be said he is perfectly 
useless in God's creation, and it is not one farthing 
matter to the rest of his kind whether he be dead or alive. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 9 

This also was the life which of all circumstances of life 
was the most my aversion^ who had been all my days 
used to an active life ; and I would often say to myself, 
** A state of idleness is the very dregs of life ; " and 
indeed I thought I was much more suitably employed 
when I was twenty-six days a-making me a deal 
board. 

It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when 
my nephew, whom, as I had observed before, I had 
brought up to the sea, and had made him commander 
of a ship, was come home from a short voyage to 
Bilboa, being the first he had made ; and he came to me, 
and told me that some merchants of his acquaintance 
had been proposing to him to go a voyage for them 
to the East Indies and to China, as private traders. 
** And now, uncle," says he, " if you will go to sea 
with me, I'll engage to land you upon your old habitation 
in the island, for we are to touch at the Brazils." 

Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a future 
state, and of the existence of an invisible world, than 
the concurrence of second causes with the ideas of things 
which we form in our minds, perfectly reserved, and 
not communicated to any in the world. 

My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper of 
wandering was returned upon me, and I knew nothing 
of what he had in his thoughts to say, when that very 
morning, before he came to me, I had, in a great deal 
of confusion of thought, and revolving every part of my 
circumstances in my mind, come to this resolution, viz., 
that I would go to Lisbon, and consult with my old 
sea-captain ; and so, if it was rational and practicable, 
I would go and see the island again, and see what was 
become of my people there. I had pleased myself 
with the thoughts of peopling the place, and carrying 
inhabitants from hence, getting a patent for the posses- 
sion, and I know not what ; when in the middle of all 



10 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

this in comes my nephew, as I have said, with his 
project of carrying me thither, in his way to the East 
Indies. 

I paused awhile at his words, and looking steadily 
at him, "What devil," said I, "sent you of this 
unlucky errand ? " My nephew startled, as if he had 
been frighted at first ; but perceiving I was not much 
displeased with the proposal, he recovered himself. ** I 
hope it may not be an unlucky proposal, sir," says he. 
"I dare say you would be pleased to see your new 
colony there, where you once reigned with more feli- 
city than most of your brother monarchs in the 
world." 

In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my 
temper, that is to say, the prepossession I was under, 
and of which I have said so much, that I told him, 
in few words, if he agreed with the merchants, I would 
go with him ; but I told him I would not promise to 
go any farther than my own island. " Why, sir," says 
he, " you don't want to be left there again, I hope ? " 
"Why," said I, "can you not take me up agam in 
your return?" He told me it could not be possible 
that the merchants would allow him to come that way 
with a loaded ship of such value, it being a month's 
sail out of his way, and might be three or four. *• Be- 
sides, sir, if I should miscarry," said he, "and not 
return at all, then you would be just reduced to the 
condition you were in before." 

This was very rational ; but we both found out a 
remedy for it, which was to carry a framed sloop on 
board the ship, which, being taken in pieces, and 
shipped on board the ship, might, by the help of 
some carpenters, whom we agreed to carry with us, 
be set up again in the island, and finished, fit to go 
to sea in a few days. 

I was not long resolving ; for indeed the impor- 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. II 

tunities of my nephew joined in so effectually with 
my inclination^ that nothing could oppose me. On 
the other hand, my wife being dead, I had nobody 
concerned themselves so much for me as to persuade 
me one way or other, except my ancient good friend 
the widow, who earnestly struggled with me to con- 
sider my years, my easy circumstances, and the need- 
less hazards of a long voyage; and above all, my 
young children. But it was all to no purpose ; I had 
an irresistible desire to the voyage; and I told her 
I thought there was something so uncommon in the 
impressions I had upon my mind for the voyage, 
that it would be a kind of resisting Providence if I 
should attempt to stay at home; after which she 
ceased her expostulations, and joined with me, not 
only in making provision for my voyage, but also in 
settling my family af&irs for my absence, and providing 
for the education of my children. 

In order to this I made my will, and settled the 
estate I had in such a manner for my children, and 
placed in such hands, that I was perfectly easy 
and satisfied they would have justice done them, 
whatever might befall me; and for their education, 
I left it wholly to my widow, with a sufficient 
maintenance to herself for her care; all which she 
richly deserved, for no mother could have taken 
more care in their education, or understood it better ; 
and as she lived till I came home, I also lived to 
thank her for it. 

My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning 
of January 1694-95, and I with my man Friday 
went on board in the Downs the 8th, having, besides 
that sloop which I mentioned above, a very consider- 
able cargo of all kinds of necessary things for my 
colony, which if I did not find in good condition, I 
resolved to leave so. 



12 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

First, I carried with me some servants, whom I 
purposed to place there as inhabitants, or at least to 
set on work there upon my own account while I 
stayed, and either to leave them there, or carry them 
forward, as they should appear willing; particularly, 
I carried two carpenters, a smith, and a very handy, 
ingenious fellow, who was a cooper by trade, but was 
also a general mechanic ; for he was dexterous at 
making wheels, and handmills to grind corn, was 
a good turner, and a good pot-maker. He also made 
anything that was proper to make of earth, or of 
wood; in a word, we called him our Jack-of-all- 
trades. 

With these I carried a tailor, who had offered 
himself to go passenger to the East Indies with my 
nephew, but afterwards consented to stay on our 
new plantation, and proved a most necessary handy 
fellow as could be desired, in many other businesses 
besides that of his trade ; for, as I observed formerly, 
necessity arms us for all employments. 

My cargo, as near as I can collect, for I have 
not kept an account of the particulars, consisted of 
a sufficient quantity of linen, and some thin English 
stuffs for clothing the Spaniards, that I expected to 
find there, and enough of them as by my calculation 
might comfortably supply them for seven years. If 
I remember right, the materials I carried for 
clothing them with, gloves, hats, shoes, stockings, 
and all such things as they could want for wearing, 
amounted to above two hundred pounds, including 
some beds, bedding, and household stuff, particularly 
kitchen utensils, with pots, kettles, pewter, brass, &c., 
and near an hundred pound more in iron-work, nails, 
tools of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every 
necessary thing I could think of. 

I carried also an hundred spare arms, muskets, and 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1 3 

fusees, besides some pistols, a considerable quantity of 
shot of all sizes, and two pieces of brass cannon ; and 
because I knew not what time and what extremities I 
was providing for, I carried an hundred barrels of 
powder, besides swords, cutlasses, and the iron part of 
some pikes and halberds ; so that, in short, we had a 
large magazine of all sorts of stores ; and I made my 
nephew carry two small quarter-deck guns more than 
he wanted for his ship, to leave behind if there was 
occasion; that when we came there we might build 
a fort, and man it against all sorts of enemies. And 
indeed I at first thought there was need enough for 
it all, and much more, if we hoped to maintain our 
possession of the island, as shall be seen in the course of 
that story. 

I had not such bad luck in this voyage as I had been 
used to meet with, and therefore shall have the less 
occasion to interrupt the reader, who perhaps may be 
impatient to hear how matters went with my colony ; 
yet some odd accidents, cross winds, and bad weather 
happened on this first setting out, which made the 
▼oyage longer than I expected it at first; and I, 
-who had never made but one voyage, viz., my first 
voyage to Guinea, in which I might be said to come 
back again as the voyage was at first designed, began to 
think the same ill fate still attended me, and that I 
was born never to be contented with being on shore, 
and yet to be always unfortunate at sea. 

Contrary winds first put us to the northward, and 
we were obliged to put in at Galway, in Ireland, where 
we lay windbound two and twenty days ; but we had 
this satisfaction with the disaster, that provisions were 
here exceeding cheap, and in the utmost plenty; so 
that while we lay here we never touched the ship's 
stores, but rather added to them ; also I took in 
several live hogs, and two cows and calves, which I 



14 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

resolvedy if I had a good passage^ to put on shore in my 
island; but we found occasion to dispose otherwise 
of them. 

We set out the 5th of February from Ireland, and 
had a very fair gale of wind for some days. At I 
remember, it might be about the 20th of February, in the 
evening late, when the mate, having the watch, came 
into the round-house, and told us he saw a flash of 
fire, and heard a gun fired ; and while he was telling 
us of it, a boy came in, and told us the boatswain heard 
another. This made us all run out upon the quarter- 
deck, where for a while we heard nothing, but in a 
few minutes we saw a very great light, and found that 
there was some very terrible fire at a distance. Imme- 
diately we had recourse to our reckonings, in which 
we all agreed that there could be no land that way in 
which the fire showed itself, no, not for five hundred 
leagues, for it appeared at W.N.W. Upon this we 
concluded it must be some ship on fire at sea ; and as 
by our hearing the noise of guns just before we con- 
cluded it could not be far ofiT, we stood directly towards 
it, and were presently satisfied we should discover it, 
because the farther we sailed the greater the light 
appeared, though the weather being hazy we could not 
perceive anything but the light for a while. In about 
half-an-hour's sailing, the wind being fair for us, though 
not much of it, and the weather clearing up a little, we 
could plainly discern that it was a great ship on fire in 
the middle of the sea. 

I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though 
not at all acquainted with the persons engaged in it. I 
presently recollected my former circumstances, and in 
what condition I was in when taken up by the Portugal 
captain ; and how much more deplorable the circum- 
stances of the poor creatures belonging to this ship must 
be if they had no other ship in company with them. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1 5 

Upon this I immediately ordered that five guns should 
be firedy one soon after another, that, if possible, we 
might give notice to them that there was help for them 
at hand, and that they might endeavour to save them- 
selves in their boat ; for though we could see the flame 
of the ship, yet they, it being night, could see nothing 
of us. 

We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the 
burning ship drove, waiting for daylight ; when, on a 
sudden, to our great terror, though we had reason to 
expect it, the ship blew up in the air, and immediately, 
that is to say, in a few minutes, all the fire was out, 
that is to say, the rest of the ship sunk. This was 
terrible, and indeed an afflicting sight, for the sake of 
the poor men, who, I concluded, must be either all 
destroyed in the ship, or be in the utmost distress 
in their boat in the middle of the ocean, which, at 
present, by reason it was dark, I could not see. How- 
ever, to direct them as well as I could, I caused lights 
to be hung out in all the parts of the ship where we 
coukl, and which we had lanthorns for, and kept firing 
guns all the night long, letting them know by this 
that there was a ship not far off. 

About eight o'clock in the morning we discovered 
the ship's boats by the help of our perspective glasses, 
and found there were two of them, both thronged with 
people, and deep in the water. We perceived they 
rowed, the wind being against them, that they saw 
our ship, and did their utmost to make us see them. 

We immediately spread our ancient to let them know 
we saw them, and hung a waft out as a signal for them 
to come on board, and then made more sail, standing 
directly to them. In little more than half-an-hour we 
came up with them, and in a word took them all in, 
being no less than sixty-four men, women, and children; 
for there were a great many passengers. 



1 6 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

Upon the whole, we found it was a French merchant 
ship of three hundred tons, homeward bound from 
Quebec, in the river of Canada. The master gave us 
a long account of the distress of his ship, how the fire 
began in the steerage by the negligence of the steers- 
man ; but on his crying out for help was, as everybody 
thought, entirely put out, when they found that some 
sparks of the first fire had gotten into some part of the 
ship so difficult to come at, that they could not effectu- 
ally quench it ; till getting in between the timbers, and 
within the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into the hold, 
and mastered all the skill and all the application they 
were able to exert. 

They had no more to do then but to get into their 
boats, which, to their great comfort, were pretty large ; 
being their longboat, and a great shallop, besides a 
small skiff, which was of no great service to them 
other than to get some fresh water and provisions into 
her, after they had secured their lives from the fire. 
They had indeed small hope of their lives by getting 
into these boats at that distance from any land, only, 
as they said well, that they were escaped from the fire, 
and had a possibility that some ship might happen to be 
at sea, and might take them in. They had sails, oars, 
and a compass, and were preparing to make the best 
of their way back to Newfoundland, the wind blowing 
pretty feir ; for it blew an easy gale at S.E. by E. 
They had as much provisions and water as, with 
sparing it so as to be next door to starving, might 
support them about twelve days ; in which, if they 
had no bad weather, and no contrary winds, the 
captain said he hoped he might get the banks of 
Newfoundland, and might perhaps take some fish to 
sustain them till they might go on shore. But there 
were so many chances against them in all these cases, 
such as storms to overset and founder them, rains and 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. l^ 

cold to benumb and perish their limbs, contrary winds 
to keep them out and starve them, that it must have 
been next to miraculous if they had escaped. 

In the midst of their consultations, every one being 
hopeless and ready to despair, the captain, with tears in 
his eyes, told me they were on a sudden surprised with 
the joy of hearing a gun fired, and after that four more ; 
these were the five guns which I caused to be fired at 
first seeing the light. This revived their hearts, and gave 
them the notice which, as above, I desired it should, 
viz., that there was a ship at hand for their help. 

It was upon hearing these guns that they took down 
their masts and sails ; the sound coming from the 
windward, they resolved to lie by till morning. Some 
time after this, hearing no more guns, they fired three 
muskets, one a considerable while after another ; but 
these, the wind being contrary, we never heard. 

Some time after that again they were still more 
agreeably surprised with seeing our lights and hearing 
the guns, which, as I have said, I caused to be fired all 
the rest of the night. This set them to work with their 
oars to keep their boats ahead, at least that we might 
the sooner come up with them ; and at last, to their 
inexpressible joy, they found we saw them. 

It is impossible for me to express the several gestures, 
the strange ecstasies, the variety of postures which 
these poor delivered people ran into to express the joy 
of their souls at so unexpected a deliverance. Grief 
and fear are easily described ; sighs, tears, groans, and 
a very few motions of the head and hands make up 
the sum of its variety ; but an excess of joy, a surprise 
of joy, has a thousand extravagancies in it. There were 
some in tears, some raging and tearing themselves, as if 
they had been in the greatest agonies of sorrow ; some 
stark raving and downright lunatic ; some ran about 
the ship stamping with their feet, others wringing their 

II. B 



l8 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

hands ; some were daDcing, some singing, some laugh- 
ing, more crying ; many quite dumb, not able to speak 
a word; others sick and vomiting, several swooning, 
and ready to faint ; and a few were crossing themselves 
and giving God thanks. 

I would not wrong them neither. There might be 
many that were thankful afterward; but the passion 
was too strong for them at first, and they were not able 
to master it; they were thrown into ecstasies and a 
kind of frenzy, and it was but a very few that were 
composed and serious in their joy. 

Perhaps the case may have some addition to it 
from the particular circumstance of that nation they 
belonged to ; I mean the French, whose temper is 
allowed to be more volatile, more passionate, and more 
sprightly, and their spirits more fluid, than in other 
nations. I am not philosopher enough to determine 
the cause, but nothing I had ever seen before came up 
to it. The ecstasies poor Friday, my trusty savage, was 
in when he found his father in the boat came the 
nearest to it ; and the surprise of the master and his 
two companions, whom I delivered from the villains 
that set them on shore in the island, came a little way 
towards it ; but nothing was to compare to this, either 
that I saw in Friday, or anywhere else in my life. 

It is further observable that these extravagancies did 
not show themselves in that diflTerent manner I have 
mentioned in different persons only, but all the 
variety would appear in a short succession of moments 
in one and the same person. A man that we saw this 
minute dumb, and, as it were, stupid and confounded, 
should the next minute be dancing and hallooing like 
an antic ; and the next moment be tearing his hair, or 
pulling his clothes to pieces, and stamping them under 
his feet like a madman ; and a few moments after that we 
should have him all in tears, then sick, then swooning ; 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1 9 

and had not immediate help been had would, in a 
few moments more, have been dead. And thus it 
wasy not with one or two, or ten or twenty, but with 
the greatest part of them ; and, if I remember right, 
our surgeon was obliged to let above thirty of them 
blood. 

There were two priests among them, one an old 
man, and the other a young man ; and that which was 
strangest was, that the oldest man was the worst As 
soon as he set his foot on board our ship, and saw 
himself safe, he dropped down stone dead, not the 
least sign of life could be perceived in him. Our 
surgeon immediately applied proper remedies to re- 
cover him, and was the only man in the ship that 
believed he was not dead. At length he opened a 
vein in his arm, having first chafed and rubbed the part, 
so as to warm it as much as possible. Upon this the 
blood, which only dropped at first, flowed something 
freely. In three minutes after the man opened his eyes ; 
and about a quarter of an hour after that he spoke, 
grew better, and, in a little time, quite well. After 
the blood was stopped he walked about, and told us 
he was perfectly well, took a dram of cordial which 
the surgeon gave him, and was what we called, qome 
to himself. About a quarter of an hour after they 
came running into the cabin to the surgeon, who was 
bleeding a French woman that had fainted, and told 
him the priest was gone stark mad. It seems he 
had begun to revolve the change of his circumstance, 
and again this put him into an ecstasy of joy ; his 
spirits whirled about faster than the vessels could 
convey them ; the blood grew hot and feverish ; and 
the man was as fit for Bedlam as any creature that ever 
was in it. The surgeon would not bleed him again in 
that condition, but gave him something to doze and 
put him to sleep, which, after some time, operated 



20 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

upon hiniy and he waked the next morning perfectly 
composed and well. 

The younger priest behaved with great command 
of his passions, and was really an example of a 
serious, well-governed mind. At his first coming 
on board the ship he threw himself flat on his face, 
prostrating himself in thankfulness for his deliverance, 
in which I unhappily and unseasonably disturbed him, 
really thinking he had been in a swoon ; but he spake 
calmly, thanked me, told me he was giving God 
thanks for his deliverance, and begged me to leave him 
a few moments, and that next to his Maker he would 
give me thanks also. 

I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not 
only left him, but kept others from interrupting him alsa 
He continued in that posture about three minutes, or 
little more, after I left him, then came to me, as he 
had said he would, and with a great deal of seriousness 
and affection, but with tears in his eyes, thanked me 
that had, under God, given him and so many miserable 
creatures their lives. I told him I had no room to 
move him to thank God for it rather than me ; but I 
added, that it was nothing but what reason and humanity 
dictated to all men, and that we had as much reason as 
he to give thanks to God, who had blessed us so far as 
to make us the instruments of His mercy to so many of 
His creatures. 

After this the young priest applied himself to his 
country-folks ; laboured to compose them ; persuaded, 
entreated, argued, reasoned with them, and did his 
utmost to keep them within the exercise of their 
reason ; and with some he had success, though others 
were, for a time, out of all government of them- 
selves. 

I cannot help committing this to writing, as perhaps 
it may be useful to those into whose hands it may fall. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 21 

for the guiding themselves in all the extravagancies of 
their passions ; for if an excess of joy can carry men 
out to such a length beyond the reach of their reason, 
what will not the extravagancies of anger, rage, and a 
provoked mind carry us to? *And, indeed, here I 
saw reason for keeping an exceeding watch over 
our passions of every kind, as well those of joy and 
satisfaction, as those of sorrow and anger. 

We were something disordered by these extra- 
vagancies among our new guests for the first day ; but 
when they had been retired, lodgings provided for them 
as well as our ship would allow, and they had slept 
heartily, as most of them did, they were quite another 
sort of people the next day. 

Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledgments 
for the kindness shown them, was wanting. The 
French, 'tis known, are naturally apt to exceed that 
way. The captain and one of the priests came to me 
the next day ; and desiring to speak with me and my 
nephew, the commander, began to consult with us what 
should be done with them; and first they told us, 
that as we had saved their lives, so all they had was 
little enough for a return to us for that kindness received. 
The captain said they had saved some money and some 
things of value in their boats, catched hastily up out 
of the flames ; and if we would accept it, they were 
ordered to make an offer of it all to us; they only 
desired to be set on shore somewhere in our way, where, 
if possible, they might get passage to France. 

My nephew was for accepting their money at first 
word, and to consider what to do with them after- 
wards ; but I overruled him in that part, for I knew 
what it was to be set on shore in a strange country ; 
and if the Portugal captain that took me up at sea had 
served me so, and took all I had for my deliverance, 
I must have starved, or have been as much a slave at 



22 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

the Brazils as I had been in Barbary^ the mere bang 
sold to a Mahometan excepted ; and perhaps a Porta" 
guese is not much a better master than a Turk, if not» 
in some cases, a much worse. 

I therefore told the French captain that we had 
taken them up in their distress, it was true ; but that 
it was our duty to do so, as we were fellow-creatures, 
and as we would desire to be so delivered, if we were 
in the like or any other extremity ; that we had done 
nothing for them but what we believed they would 
have done for us, if we had been in their case and they 
in ours ; but that we took them up to save them, not 
to plunder them; and it would be a most barbarous 
thing to take that little from them which they saved 
out of the fire, and then set them on shore and 
leave them ; that this would be first to save them from 
death, and then to kill them ourselves ; save them from 
drowning and abandon them to starving ; and therefore 
I would not let the least thing be taken from thenu As 
to setting them on shore, I told them indeed that was 
an exceeding difHculty to us, for that the ship was 
bound to the East Indies ; and though we were driven 
out of our course to the westward a very great way, 
and perhaps were directed by Heaven on purpose for 
their deliverance, yet it was impossible for us wilfully 
to change our voyage on this particular account ; nor 
could my nephew, the captain, answer it to the freighters, 
with whom he was under charter-party to pursue his 
voyage by the way of Brazil ; and all I knew we could 
do for them was, to put ourselves in the way of meet- 
ing with other ships homeward-bound from the West 
Indies, and get them passage, if possible, to England or 
France. 

The first part of the proposal was so generous and 
kind, they could not but be very thankful for it ; but 
they were in a very great consternation, especially the 



I 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 23 

passengers, at the notion of being carried away to the 
]E)a8t Indies ; and they then entreated me that, seeing I 
^was driven so far to the westward before I met with 
-chem, I would at least keep on the same course to the 
l)ank8 of Newfoundland, where it was probable I might 
meet with some ship or sloop that they might hire to 
carry them back to Canada, from whence they came. 

I thought this was but a reasonable request on their 
party and therefore I inclined to agree to it ; for indeed 
I considered that to carry this whole company to the 
East Indies would not only be an intolerable severity 
upon the poor people, but would be ruining our whole 
voyage by devouring all our provisions ; so I thought 
it no breach of charter-party, but what an unforeseen 
accident made absolutely necessary to us, and in which 
no one could say we were to blame : for the laws of 
God and Nature would have forbid that we should 
refuse to take up two boats full of people in such a 
distressed condition ; and the nature of the thing, as 
well respecting ourselves as the poor people, obliged 
us to set them on shore somewhere or other for their 
deliverance. So I consented that we should carry them 
to Newfoundland, if wind and weather would permit ; 
and, if not, that I would carry them to Martinico, in 
the West Indies. 

The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather 
pretty good ; and as the winds had continued in the 
points between N.E. and S.E. a long time, we missed 
several opportunities of sending them to France ; for 
we met several ships bound to Europe, whereof two 
were French, from St Christopher's; but they had 
been so long beating up against the wind, that they 
durst take in no passengers for fear of wanting pro- 
visions for the voyage, as well for themselves as for 
those they should take in, so we were obliged to go 
on. It was about a week after this that we made the 



24 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

banks of Newfoundland, where, to shorten my storyy 
we put all our French people on board a bark^ which 
they hired at sea there, to put them on shore, and 
afterwards to carry them to France, if they could get 
provisions to victual themselves with. When I say all 
the French went on shore, I should remember that 
the young priest I spoke of, hearing we were bound 
to the East Indies, desired to go the voyage with us, 
and to be set on shore on the coast of Coromandel, 
which I readily agreed toj for I wonderfully liked the 
man, and had very good reason, as will appear after- 
wards ; also four of the seamen entered themselves on 
our ship, and proved very useful fellows. 

From hence we directed our course to the West 
Indies, steering away S. and S. by E. for about twenty 
days together, sometimes little or no wind at all, when 
we met with another subject for our humanity to work 
upon, almost as deplorable as that before. 

It was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes N., 
and the 19th day of March 1694-95, when we espied 
a 8iul, our course S.E. and by S. We soon perceived 
it was a large vessel, and that she bore up to us ; but 
could not at first know what to make of her, till, after 
coming a little nearer, we found she had lost her main- 
topmast, foremast, and bowsprit; and presently she 
fired a gun as a signal of distress. The weather was 
pretty good, wind at N.N.W. a fresh gale, and we 
soon came to speak with her. 

We found her a ship of Bristol bound home firom 
Barbadoes, but had been blown out of the road at 
Barbadoes, a few days before she was ready to sail, by 
a terrible hurricane, while the captain and chief mate 
were bdh gone on shore ; so that besides the terror of 
the siona, fSttef voe bit ii an indifiefent case for good 
artists «l fanmlMlJj^lpHBb Tliey had been already 

vidi anodier terrible 




ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 25 

Storm after the hurricane was over, which had blown 
them quite out of their knowledge to the westward, 
and in which they lost their masts, as above. They 
told us they expected to have seen the Bahama 
Islands, but were then driven away again to the 
south-east by a strong gale of wind at N.N.W,, the 
same that blew now, and having no sails to work the 
ship with but a main-course, and a kind of square sail 
upon a jury-foremast, which they had set up, they 
could not lie near the. wind, but were endeavouring to 
5tand away for the Canaries. 

But that which was worst of all was, that they 

uvere almost starved for want of provisions, besides the 

fatigues they had undergone. Their bread and flesh 

^^was quite gone, they had not one ounce left in the ship, 

^.nd had had none for eleven days. The only relief 

e^ey had was, their water was not all spent, and they 

l:^^ about half a barrel of flour left ; they had sugar 

^mough ; some succades or sweetmeats they had at first, 

lz>^t iey were devoured ; and they had seven casks of 

XT urn. 

There was a youth and his mother and a maid- 
servant on board, who were going passengers, and 
'^^liinking the ship was ready to sail unhappily came on 
^oard the evening before the hurricane began ; and 
^^ving no provisions of their own left, they were in a 
"nore deplorable condition than the rest; for the sea- 
men, being reduced to such an extreme necessity them- 
selves, had no compassion, we may be sure, for the 
poor passengers ; and they were indeed in a condition 
^t their misery is very hard to describe. 

I had perhaps not known this part if my curiosity 
W not led me, the weather being fair, and the wind 
^liBted, to go on board the ship. The second mate, who 
^POD this occasion commanded the ship, had been on 
wKud our ship; and he told me indeed, they had 



26 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

three passengers in the great cabin, that were in a 
deplorable condition. ** Nay," says he, ** I believe 
they are dead, for I have heard nothing of them for above 
two days ; and I was afraid to inquire after them," 
said he, ** for I had nothing to relieve them with." 

We inmiediately applied ourselves to give them what 
relief we could spare ; and indeed I had so hi over- 
ruled things with my nephew, that I would have 
victualled them, though we had gone away to Virginia, 
or any part of the coast of America, to have supplied 
ourselves ; but there was no necessity for that. 

But now they were in a new danger, for they were 
afraid of eating too much, even of that little we gave 
them. The mate, or commander, brou^t six men with 
him in his boat, but these poor wretches looked like 
skeletons, and were so weak, they could hardly tk to 
their oars. The mate himself was very ill, and half- 
starred, for he declared he had r es erv e d nothiDg from 
the men, and went share and share alike with them in 
every bit they ate. 

I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat before 
him inmiediately, and he had not eaten three moathfids 
before he began to be sick, and out of order ; so he 
stopped a while, and our surgeon mixed him up some- 
tbing with some broth, which he said would be to him 
both food and physic ; and after he had taken it, he 
grew better. In the meantime, I forgot not the men. 
I ordered victuals to be given them, and the poor 
creatures rather devoured than cat it; they were so 
exceeding hungry, that they were in a kind ravenous, 
and had no command of themselves ; and two of them 
eat with so much greediness, that they were in danger 
of their fives the next aKmi^g. 

The a^i^ afAgmmVit dHtren was very movii^ 

~!lMla teniUe prospect 
■iiIk isbod, vrkeie I 




ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 27 

liad neither the least mouthful of food, or any prospect 
of procuring any, besides the hourly apprehension I 
liad of being made the food of other creatures. But 
all the while the mate was thus relating to me the 
-miserable condition of the ship's company, I could not 
j)ut out of my thought the story he had told me of the 
-three poor creatures in the great cabin, viz., the mother, 
lier son, and the maid-servant, whom he had heard 
Tiothing of for two or three days, and whom he seemed 
-to confess they had wholly neglected, their own 
extremities being so great; by which I understood, 
-chat they had really given them no food at all, and 
-chat therefore they must be perished, and be all lying 
^ead perhaps on the floor or deck of the cabin. 

As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called 
captain, on board with his men, to refresh them, so I 
also forgot not the starving crew that were left on board, 
l>ut ordered my own boat to go on board the ship, and 
v/i\h my mate and twelve men to carry them a sack 
of bread, and four or five pieees of beef to boil. Our 
surgeon charged the men to cause the meat to be boiled 
while they stayed, and to keep guard in the cook-room, 
to prevent the men taking it to eat raw, or taking it out 
of the pot before it was well boiled, and then to give 
every man but a very little at a time ; and by this 
caution he preserved the men, who would otherwise 
^ve killed themselves with that very food that was 
g^ven them on purpose to save their lives. 

At the same time I ordered the mate to go into the 
great cabin, and see what condition the poor passengers 
Were in, and if they were alive to comfort them, and 
give them what refreshment was proper; and the 
surgeon gave him a large pitcher with some of the 
prepared broth which he had given the mate that was 
00 hoardf and which he did not question would restore 
tiiem gradually. 



28 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

I was not satisfied with this ; but, as I said aboT^y 
having a great mind to see the scene of misery, which 
I knew the ship itself would present me with, in ^ 
more lively manner than I could have it by report, J- 
took the captain of the ship, as we now called hun^^ 
with me, and went myself a litde after in their boat 

I found the poor men on board almost in a tumults 
to get the victuals out of the boiler before it was 
ready ; but my mate observed his order, and kept a 
good guard at the cook-room door ; and the man he 
placed there, after using all possible persuasion to have 
patience, kept them off by force. However, he caused 
some biscuit-cakes to be dipped in the pot, and softened 
with the liquor of the meat, which they call brews, 
and gave them every one one, to stay their stomachs, 
and told them it was for their own safety that he was 
obliged to give them but a little at a time. But it was 
all in vain ; and had I not come on board, and their 
own commander and officers with me, and with good 
words, and some threats also of giving them no more, 
I believe they would have broke into the cook-room 
by force, and tore the meat out of the furnace ; for 
words are indeed of very small force to a hungry 
belly. However, we pacified them, and fed them 
gradually and cautiously for the first time, and the 
next time gave them more, and at last filled their 
bellies, and the men did well enough. 

But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin 
was of another nature, and far beyond the rest ; for as 
first the ship's company had so little for themselves, it 
was but too true that they had at first kept them very 
low, and at last totally neglected them ; so that for six 
or seven days, it might be said, they had really had no 
food at all, and for several days before very little. 
The poor mother, who, as the men reported, was a woman 
of good sense and good breeding, had spared all she 



\ 



JSOE. 29 

could get so afTectionately for her son, that at last she 
entirely aunk under it ; and when the mate of our ship 
went in, ahe sat upon the floor or deck, with her back 
up against the aides, between two chairs, which were 
lashed fast, aud her liead sunk in between her shoulders, 
like a corpse, though not quite dead. My niate said 
all he could to revive and encourage her, and with a 
spoon put some broth into her mouth. She opened her 
lips, and lifted up one hand, but could not apeak ; yet 
she understood what he said, and made signs to him, 
intimating that it was 100 late for her, but pointed to 
her child, aa if she would have said they should take 
care of him. 

However, the mate, who was exceedingly moved 
with the sight, endeavoured to get some of the broth 
into her mouth ; and, as he said, got two or three 
spoonfuls down, though I question whether he could 
be sure of it or not ; but it was too laie, and she died 
the same night. 

The youth, who was preeerved at the price of his 
most atKctionate mother's life, was not so far gone ; 
yet he lay in a cabin-bed as one stretched out, with 
hardly any life left in him. He had a piece of an old 
glove in his mouth, having eaten up the rest of it 
However, being young, and having more strength than 
his mother, the mate got something down his throat, 
and he began sensibly to revive, though, by giving him 
some time after but two or three spoonfuls extraordinary, 
he was very sick, aud brought it up again. 

But the next care was the poor maid. She lay all 
along upon the deck baid by her mistress, and just 
like one that had fallen dowo with an apoplexy, and 
struggled for life. Her limbs were distorted, one of 
her bands was clasped round the frame of a chair, 
and ahe gripped it so hard, that we could not eauly 
make her lei go. Her other arm lay over her head. 



30 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

and her feet lay both together, aet ^t against the 
frame of the cabin- table. In short, she lay just like 
one in the last agonies of death ; and yet she was 
alive too. 

The poor creature was not only starved with hanger, 
and terrified with the thoughts of death, but, as the 
men told us afterwards, was broken-hearted for her 
mistress, whom she saw dying for two or three days 
before, and whom she loved most tenderly. 

We knew not what to do with this poor girl ; for 
when our surgeon, who was a man of very great know- 
ledge and experience, had with great application re- 
covered her as to life, he had her upon his hand as 
to her senses, for she was little less than distracted for 
a considerable time after, as shall appear presently. 

Whoever shall read these memorandums, roust be 
desired to consider that visits at sea are not like a 
journey into the country, where sometimes people stay 
a week or a fortnight at a place. Our busmess was to 
relieve this distressed ship's crew, but not to lie by for 
them ; and though they were willing to steer the same 
course with us for some days, yet we could carry no 
sail to keep pace with a ship that had no masts. How- 
ever, as their captain begged of us to help him to set 
up a main-topmast, and a kind of a topmast to his jury- 
foremast, we did, as it were, lie by him for three or 
four days ; and then having given him five barrels of 
beef, and a barrel of pork, two hogsheads of biscuit, 
and a proportion of peas, flour, and what other things 
we could spare ; and taking three casks of sugar, some 
rum, and some pieces of eight of them for satisfaction, 
we left them, taking on board with us, at their own 
earnest request, the priest, the youth, and the maid, and 
all their goods. 

The young lad was about seventeen years of age, a 
pretty, well-bred, modest, and sensible youth 5 greatly 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3 1 

dejected with the loss of his mother, and, as it seems, 
had lost his father but a few months before at Bar- 
badoes. He begged of the surgeon to speak to me 
to take him out of the ship ; for, he said, the cruel 
fellows had murdered his motlier ; and indeed so they 
had, that is to say, passively; for they might have 
spared a small sustenance to the poor helpless widow, 
that might have preserved her life, though it had been 
bat just to keep her alive. But hunger knows no 
friend, no relation, no justice, no right, and therefore 
is remorseless, and capable of no compassion. 

The surgeon told him how far we were going, and 
how it would carry him away from all his friends, and 
put him perhaps in as bad circumstances, almost, as 
those we found him in ; that is to say, starving in the 
world. He said he mattered not whither he went, 
if he was but delivered from the terrible crew he 
was among; that the captain (by which he meant me, 
fr>r he could know nothing of my nephew) had saved 
his life, and he was sure would not hurt lum ; and as 
for the maid, he was sure, if she came to herself, she 
would be very thankful for it, let us carry them where 
we would. The surgeon represented the case so 
affectionately to me that I yielded, and we took them 
both on board, with all their goods, except eleven hogs- 
heads of sugar, which could not be removed, or come 
at ; and as the youth had a bill of lading for them, I 
made his commander sign a writing, obliging himself to 
go, as soon as he came to Bristol, to one Mr Rogers, a 
merchant there, to whom the youth said he was related, 
and to deliver a letter which I wrote to him, and all 
the goods he had belonging to the deceased widow ; 
which I suppose was not done ; for I could never learn 
that the ship came to Bristol, but was, as is most 
probable, lost at sea, being in so disabled a condition, 
and 80 far from any land, that I am of opinion the 



32 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

first Storm she met with afterwards she might founder 
io the sea ; for she was leaky, and had damage in her 
hold when we met with her. 

I was now in the latitude of 19 degrees 32 minutes, 
and had hitherto had a tolerable voyage as to weather, 
though at first the winds had been contrary. I shall 
trouble nobody with the litde incidents of wind, weather, 
currents, &c., on the rest of our voyage ; but shortening 
my story for the sake of what is to follow, shall observe 
that I came to my old habitation, the island, on the 
loth of April 1695. It was with no small difficulty 
that I found the place ; for as I came to it, and went 
from it before, on the south and east side of the island, 
as coming from the Brazils ; so now, coming in between 
the main and the island, and having no chart for the 
coast, nor any landmark, I did not know it when I 
saw it, or know whether I saw it or no. 

We beat about a great while, and went on shore on 
several islands in the mouth of the great river Oron- 
ooque, but none for my purpose ; only this I learned by 
my coasting the shore, that I was under one great 
mistake before, viz., that the continent which I thought 
I saw from the island I lived in was really no continent, 
but a long island, or rather a ridge of islands, reaching 
from one to the other side of the extended mouth of 
that great river ; and that the savages who came to my 
island were not properly those which we call Caribbees, 
but islanders, and other barbarians of the same kind, 
who inhabited something nearer to our side than the 
rest. 

In short, I visited several of these islands to no 
purpose ; some I found were inhabited, and some were 
not. On one of them I found some Spaniards, and 
thought they had lived there ; but speaking with them, 
I found they had a sloop lay in a small creek hard 
by, and they came thither to make salt, and to catch 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 33 

some pearl- muMeU, if they could ; but thnt they be- 
longed to the Isle de Trinidad, which lay farther north, 
in the latitude of lO and 1 1 degrees. 

But at Inst coasting from one island to another, 
sometimes with the ship, Bomecinies with the French- 
man's shallop, which we had found a convenient boat, 
and therefore kept her with their very good will, at 
length I came feir on the south side of ray ifiland, and I 
presently knew the very countenance of the place j so 
I brought the ship safe to an anchor broadside with the 
iittle creek where was my old habitation. 

Aa soon as I saw the place I called for Friday, 
and asked him if he knew where he was ? He looked 
about a little, and presently clapping his hands cried, 
"O yes, O there, yes, O there! " pointing to our 
old habitation, and fell a-dancing and capering like a 
mad fellow ; and I had much ado to keep him from 
jumpog into the sea, to swim ashore to the place, 

**Weli, Friday," says I, "do you think we shall 
find anybody here, or do^ And what do you think; 
riiall we see your father ? " The fellow stood mute as 
S stock a good while ; but when I named hia father, 
(be poor affectionate creature looked dejected, and I 
could, see the tears run down his face very plenttfidly. 
•* What is the matter, Friday ! " says I ; " are you 
troubled because you may see your father ? " " No, 
no," says he, slwking his head, " no see him more, no 
erw more see again." "Why so," said I, " Friday ? 
how do you know that ? " — " O 00, O no," says 
Friday, " he long ago die ; long ago, he much old 
man. "Well, well," said I, "Friday, you don't 
know; but shall we see any one else then?" The 
fellow, it seems, had better eyes than I, and be points 
Inst to the hill above my old house ; and though we 
lay half a league oif, he cries out, " We see ! we see ! 
yes, we see much men there, and there, and there." 



34 ADVBNTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

I looked, but I could see nobody, no, not with a per- 
spective glass ; which was, I suppose, because I could 
not hit the place ; for the fellow was right, as I found 
upon inquiry the next day, and there was £ve or six 
men altogether stood to look at the ship, not knowing 
what to think of us. 

As soon as Friday had told me he saw people, I 
caused the English ancient to be spread, and fired three 
guns, to give them notice we were ^ends ; and in 
about half a quarter of an hour after, we perceived a 
smoke rise from the side of the creek. So I immediately 
ordered a boat out, taking Friday with me ; and hanging 
out a white flag, or flag of truce, I went directly on 
shore, taking with me the young friar I mentioned, to 
whom I had told the whole story of my living there, 
and the manner of it, and every particular both of mysdf 
and those I left there, and who was on that account 
extremely desirous to go with me. We had besides 
about sixteen men very well armed, if we had found 
any new guests there which we did not know of ; but 
we had no need of weapons. 

As we went on shore upon the tide of flood near 
high- water, we rowed directly into the creek ; and the 
first man I fixed my eyes upon was the Spaniard whose 
life I had saved, and whom I knew by his face perfectly 
well ; as to his habit, I shall describe it afterwards. 
I ordered nobody to go on shore at first but myself; 
but there was no keeping Friday in the boat ; for the 
affectionate creature had spied his father at a distance, 
a good way off of the Spaniards, where indeed I saw 
nothing of him ; and if they had not let him go on 
shore, he would have jumped into the sea. He was no 
sooner on shore, but he flew away to his father like an 
arrow out of a bow. It would have made any man have 
shed tears, in spite of the firmest resolution, to have 
seen the first transports of this poor fellow's joy when 



ADVENTUBKS OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 35 

he came to his father ; how he embraced him, kisaed 
him, atroked his face, took him up in hia arms, set him 
down upon a tree, and lay down by him ; then stood 
and looked at him as any one would iook at a strange 
picture, for a quarter of an hour together ; then lie 
down on the ground, and stroke his legs, and kiss 
them, and then get up again, and stare at him ; one 
would have thought the fellow bewitched ; but it woiJd 
have made a dog laugh to see how the nest day his 
pas^on run out another way. In the morning he walked 
along the shore, to and again, with hia father, several 
hours, always leading him by the hand as if he had been 
a lady ; and every now and then he would come to 
fetch something or other for him to the boat, either a 
lump of sugar, or a dram, a biscuit-cake, or something or 
other that was good. In the afternoon his frolics ran 
another way ; for then he would set the old man down 
upon the ground, and dance about him, and make a 
thousand antic postures and gestures ; and all the while 
he did this he would be talking to him, and telling him 
one story or another of his travels, and of what had 
happened to him abroad, to divert him. In short, if 
the same filial alfection was to he found tn Christians 
to their parents in our part of the world, one would 
be tempted to say there would hardly have been any 
need of the fifth commandment. 

But this is a digression ; I return to my landing. It 
would be endless to take notice of all the ceremonies 
and civilities that the Spaniards received me with. 
The first Spaniard, whom, as 1 said, I knew very well, 
was he whose life I had saved. He came towards the 
boat, attended by one more, carrying a ilag of truce 
also t and he did not only not know me at lirst, but he 
had no thoughts, no notion, of its being me that was 
come till I spoke to him. "Seignior," said I, in Por- 
tuguese, "do you not know me?" At which he 



1 



36 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

spoke not a word ; but giving his musket to the man 
that was with him, threw his arms abroad, and saying 
something in Spanish that I did not perfectly hear, 
comes forward, and embraced me, telling me he was 
inexcusable not to know that face again that he had 
once seen, as of an angel from heaven sent to save his 
life. He said abundance of very handsome things, as 
a well-bred Spaniard always knows how ; and then 
beckoning to the person that attended him, bade him go 
and call out his comrades. He then asked me if I 
would walk to my old habitation, where he would 
give me possession of my own house again, and where 
I should see there had been but mean improvements ; 
so I walked along with him. But alas ! I could no 
more find the place again than if I had never been 
there ; for they had planted so many trees, and placed 
them in such a posture, so thick and close to one 
another, and in ten years' time they were grown so big, 
that, in short, the place was inaccessible, except by 
such windings and blind ways as they themselves only 
who made them could find. 

I asked them what put them upon all these fortifi- 
cations ? He told me I would say there was need 
enough of it when they had given me an account how 
they had passed their time since their arriving in the 
island, especially after they had the misfortune to find 
that I was gone. He told me he could not but have 
some satisfaction in my good fortune when he heard 
that I was gone away in a good ship, and to my satis- 
faction ; and that he had oftentimes a strong persuasion 
that one time or other he should see me again ; but 
nothing that ever befell him in his life, he said, was so 
surprising and afflicting to him at first, as the disap- 
pointment he was under when he came back to the 
island, and found I was not there. 

As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRPSOE. 37 

were left behind, aad of whom he said he had a long 
etory Co tell me, the Spaniards all thought thcraaelveH 
much better among the savages, only that their number 
was so amal). "And," says he, "had they been 
strong enough, we had been all long ago in purgatory ; " 
and with that he crossed himself on the breast. *' But, 
rir," says he, " I hope you will not be displeased 
when I shall tell you how, forced by necessity, we 
were obliged, for our own preservation, to disarm them, 
and make them our subjects, who would not be content 
with being moderately our masters, but would be our 
murderers," I answered, I was heartily afraid of it 
when I left them there ; and nothing troubled me at 
my parting from the island but that they were not 
come back, that I might have put them in possession of 
everything first, and left the other in a state of subjec- 
tion, as they deserved ; but if they had reduced them 
to it, I was very glad, and should be very far from 
tindJDg any fault with it j for I knew they were a 
parcel of refractory, ungoverned villains, and were lit 
for aoy manner of mischief. 

While I was saying this, came the man whom he 
had sent back, and with him eleven men more. In the 
distress they were in, it was impossible to guess what 
nation they were of; but he made all clear both to 
them and to me. First he turned to me, and pointing 
to them said, " These, sir, are some of the gentlemen 
who owe their lives to you ; " and then turning to 
them, and pointing to me, he let them know who I 
was ; upon which they all came up one by one, not as 
if they had been sailors, and ordinary fellows, and I 
the like, but really as if they had been ambassadors of 
noblemen, and I a monarch or a great conqueror. Their 
behaviour was to the last degree obliging and courteous, 
and yet mixed with a manly, majestic gravity, which 
very well became them ; and, in short, they had bo 



38 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

much more manners than I, that I scarce knew how to 
receive their civilities, much less how to return them 
in kind. 

The history of their coming to, and conduct in, the 
island after my going away is so very remarkable, and 
has so many incidents which the former part of my 
relation will help to understand, and which will, in 
most of the particulars, refer to that account I have 
already given, that I cannot but commit them with 
great delight to the reading of those that come after 
me. 

I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in 
the first person, which will put me to the expense of 
ten thousand said I's, and said he's, and he told me's, 
and I told him's, and the like ; but I shall, collect the 
facts historically as near as I can gather them out of 
my memory from what they related to me, and firom 
what I met with in my conversing with them, and with 
the place. 

In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as I 
can, I must go back to the circumstance in which I 
left the island, and in which the persons were of whom 
I am to speak. And first it is necessary to repeat, 
that I had sent away Friday's father and the Spaniard, 
the two whose lives I had rescued from the savages ; 
I say, I had sent them away in a large canoe to the 
main, as I then thought it, to fetch over the Spaniard's 
companions whom he had left behind him, in order to 
save them from the like calamity that he had been in, 
and in order to succour them for the present, and that, 
if possible, we might together find some way for our 
deliverance afterward. 

When I sent them away, I had no visible appearance 
of, or the least room to hope for, my own deliverance, 
any more than I had twenty years before ; much less 
had I any foreknowledge of what afterwards happened. 



ADVENTURES OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. 39 

mean of aa English ship coming on shore there to 
fetch me off; and it could not but be a very great 
surprise 10 them when they came back, not only to tjnd 
thai I was gone, but to find three strangers left on the 
spot, pOBseaaed of all that I had left behind me, which 
would otherwise have been their own. 

The first thing, however, which I inquired into, that 
I might begin where I left off, was of their own part ; 
and I desired he would give me a particular account of 
his voyage back to his countrymen with the boat, when 
I sent him 10 fetch them over. He told me there 
was little variety in that part ; for nothing remarkable 
happened to them on the way, they having very calm 
weather and a smooth sea ; for his countrymen it could 
not be doubted, he said, but that they were overjoyed 
to see him. ( It seems he was the principal man among 
them, the captain of the vessel they had been ship- 
wrecked in having been dead some time. ) They were, 
he said, the more surprised to see him, because they 
knew that he was fallen into the hands of the savages, 
who, they were satisfied, would devour him, as they 
did all tlie rest of the prisoners j that when he told 
them the story of his deliverance, and in what manner 
he was furnished for carrying them away, it was like a 
dream to them ; and their astonishment, they said, was 
something hke that of Joseph's brethren, when he told 
them who he was, and told them the story of his 
exaltation in Pharaoh's court ; but when he showed 
them the arms, the powder, the ball, and the provisions 
that he brought them for their journey or voyage, they 

^e restored to themselves, took a just share of the 

■f of their deliverance, and immediately prepared to 

me away with him. 

Their first business was to get canoes ; and in this 
ihey were obliged not to stick so much upon the 
bonest part of it, but to trespass upon their friendly 




40 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

savages, and to borrow two large canoes, or fenagiuut 
on pretence of going out a-fishing, or for pleasure. 

In these they came away the next rooming. It 
seems they wanted no time to get themselves ready, 
for they had no baggage, neither clothes, or provisions, 
or anything in the world, but what they had on them^ 
and a few roots to eat, of which they used to make 
their bread. 

They were in all three weeks absent, and in thaC^ 
time, unluckily for them, I had the occasion offered^ 
for my escape, as I mentioned in my other part, ancflL- 
to get off from the island ; leaving three of the most::^^ 
impudent, hardened, ungoverned, disagreeable villainc 
behind me that any man could desire to meet with, 
the poor Spaniards' great grief and disappointment, you 
may be sure. 

The only just thing the rogues did was, that when 
the Spaniards came on shore they gave my letter to 
them, and gave them provisions and other relief, as I 
had ordered them to do; also they gave them the 
long paper of directions, which I had left with them, 
containing the particular methods which I took for 
managing every part of my life there ; the way how 
I baked my bread, bred up tame goats, and planted 
my corn ; how I cured my grapes, made my pots, and, 
in a word, everything I did. All this being written 
down, they gave to the Spaniards, two of whom un- 
derstood English well enough ; nor did they refuse to 
accommodate the Spaniards with everything else, for 
they agreed very well for some time. They gave them 
an equal admission into the house, or cave, and they 
began to live very sociably; and the head Spaniard, 
who had seen pretty much of my methods, and Friday's 
father together, managed all their affairs; for as for 
the Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble about 
the island, shoot parrots, and catch tortoises, and when 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 4 1 

they came home at night, the Spaniards provided their 
suppers for them. 

The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, 
would the other but have let them alone ; which, how- 
ever, they could not find in their hearts to do long ; 
but like the dog in the manger, they would not eat 
themselves, and would not let others eat neither. The 
differences, nevertheless, were at first but trivial, and 
such as are not worth relating ; but at last it broke out 
into open war, and it begun with all the rudeness and 
insolence that can be imagined, without reason, without 
provocation, contrary to nature, and indeed to common- 
sense ; and though, it is true, the first relation of it 
came from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call 
the accusers, yet when I came to examine the fellows, 
they could not deny a word of it. 

But before I come to the particulars of this part, I 
must supply a defect in my former relation ; and this 
was, that I forgot to set down among the rest, that just as 
we were weighing the anchor to set sail, there happened 
a little quarrel on board our ship, which I was afraid 
once would have turned to a second mutiny ; nor was 
it appeased till the captain, rousing up his courage, 
and taking us all to his assistance, parted them by 
force, and making two of the most refractory fellows 
prisoners, he laid them in irons; and as they had 
been active in the former disorders, and let fall some 
dangerous ugly words the second time, he threatened 
to carry them in irons to England, and have them 
hanged there for mutiny, and running away with the 
ship. 

This, it seems, though the captain did not intend to 
do it, frighted some other men in the ship ; and some 
of them had put it into the heads of the rest that the 
captain only gave them good words for the present till 
they should come to some English port, and that then 



4^ At>V£NTUR£S OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

they should be all put into gaol, and tried for their 
lives. 

The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us 
with it ; upon which it was desired that I, who still 
passed for a great man among them> should go down 
with the mate and satisfy the men, and tell them that 
they might be assured, if they behaved well the rest of 
the voyage, all they had done for the time past shoaU 
be pardoned. So I went, and after passing mj 
honour's word to them they appeared easy, and the 
more so when I caused the two men who were io 
irons to be released and forgiven. 

But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for tha^ 
night, the wind also falling calm. Next morning W< 
found that our two men who had been laid in irofi' 
had stole each of them a musket and some othe> 
weapons ; what powder or shot they had, we know not 
and had taken the ship's pinnace, which was not ye 
hauled up, and ran away with her to their companion' 
in roguery on shore. 

As soon as we found this, I ordered the longboa 
on shore, with twelve men and the mate, and awa) 
they went to seek the rogues ; but they could neithei 
find them nor any of the rest ; for they all fled into the 
woods when they saw the boat coming on shore. The 
mate was once resolved, in justice to their roguery, tc 
have destroyed their plantations, burnt all their house- 
hold stuff and furniture, and left them to shift without 
it ; but having no order, he let it all alone, left every- 
thing as they found it, and bringing the pinnace away, 
came on board without them. 

These two men made their number five; but the 
other three villains were so much wickeder than these, 
that after they had been two or three days together, 
they turned their two new-comers out of doors to shift 
for themselves, and would have nothing to do with 



AWVBSTOItKS OP SOSmsoW CRUSOE. 43 

them i nor could they, for a good while, be persuaded 
to ^ve them any food. Aa for the Spaniards, they were 
DM yet come. 

When the Spaniards came first on shore, the business 
began to go forward. The Spmards would have per- 
suaded the three English brutes to have taken in their 
two countrymen agin, that, as they said, they might be 
all one family i but they would not hear of it. So the 
two poor fellows lived by themselves ; and Ending 
nothing but industry and application would make them 
live comfortably, they pitched their tents on the north 
liion of the island, but a little more on the west, to be 
otu of the danger of the savages, who always landed on 
>be eait parts of the island. 

Here they built them two huts, one to lodge In, and 
tHe other to lay up their magazines and stores in ; and 
•te Spniards having given them some corn for seed, 
>ild especially some of the peas which I had left them, 
'Hej dug, and planted, and enclosed, after the pattern I 
W set for them all, ;ind began to live pretty well. 
Their first crop of corn was on the ground ; and though 
It Was but a little bit of land which they had dug up at 
nist, having had but a little time, yet it was enough 
■c relieve them, and find them with bread and other 
Wtables ; and one of the fellows being the cook's mate 
"f the ship, was very ready at making soup, puddings, 
and other such preparations as the rice and the milk, 
sid such little flesh aa they got, furnished him to do. 

They were going on in this little thriving posture, 
when the three unnatural rogues, their own countrymen 
too, in mere humour, and to insult them, canie and 
bullied them, and told them the island was theirs ; 
thai tlie governor, meaning me, had given them poases- 
)ion of it, and nobody else had any right to it ; and 
damn 'cm, they should build no houses upon their 
ground, unless they would pay them rent for them. 



44 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

The two men thought they had jested at firsts ask 
them to come in and sit down, and see what-f 
houses they were that they had built, and tell th( 
what rent they demanded ; and one of them men 
told them if they were ground-landlords, he hoped 
they built tenements upon their land and made impro^ 
ments, they would, according to the custom of lai 
lords, grant them a long lease ; and bid them go fel 
a scrivener to draw the writings. One of the thr 
damning and raging, told them they should see tl 
were not in jest ; and going to a little place at a d 
tance, where the honest men had made a fire to di 
their victuals, he takes a firebrand, and claps it to 
outside of their hut, and very fairly set it on fire ; i 
it would have been all burnt down in a few minutes 
one of the two had not run to the fellow, thrust \ 
away, and trod the fire out with his feet, and that 
without some difficulty too. 

The fellow was in such a rage at the honest ma 
thrusting him away, that he returned upon him wit 
pole he had in his hand ; and had not the man avou 
the blow very nimbly, and run into the hut, he 1 
ended his days at once. His comrade, seeing 
danger they were both in, ran in after him, and i 
mediately they came both out with their muskets ; i 
the man that was first struck at with the pole knocl 
the fellow down that had begun the quarrel with 
stock of his musket, and that before the other t 
could come to help him ; and then seeing the rest cc 
at them, they stood together, and presenting the ot 
ends of their pieces to them, bade them stand off. 

The other had firearms with them too ; but one 
the two honest men, bolder than his comrade, i 
made desperate by his danger, told them if they offe: 
to move hand or foot they were dead men, i 
boldly commanded them to lay down their arms. Tl 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 45 

did not indeed lay down their arms ; but seeing him si 
reeolute, it brought them to a parley, and tiiey con- 
sented to take their wounded man with them, and be 
gone ; and, indeed, it seems the fcilow was wounded 
Bufficiently with the bJow. However, they were much 
the wrong, since they had the advantage, that they 
did not disarm them eiTectually, as they might have 
done, and have gone immediately to the Spaniards, and 
given them an account how the rogues had treated 
them ; for the three villains studied nothing but revenge, 
and every day gave them some intimation that they 
did GO. 

But not to crowd this part with an account of the 
lesser part of their rogueries, such as treading down 
their corn, shooting three young kids and a she-goat, 
which the poor men had got to breed up tame for their 
store, and in a word, plaguing them night and day in 
this manner, it forced the two men to such a desperation, 
that they resolved to fight them all three the first time 
they had a fair opportunity. In order to this they 
fMolved to go to the castle, as they called it, that was 
my old dwelling, where the three rogues and the 
Spaniards all lived together at that time, intending to 
have a fair battle, and the Spaniards should stand by to 
•w fair play. So they got up in the morning before 
^y, and came to the place, and called the Englishmen 
°y their names, telling a Sjianiard that answered that 
Ihey wanted to speak with them. 

It happened that the day beibre two of the Spaniards 
'laving been in the woods had seen one of the two 
Englishmen, whom for distinction I call the honest 
"KD, and he h^d made a sad complaint to the Spaniards 
if the barbarous usage they had met with from their 
ihree countrymen, and how they had ruined their 

^000, and destroyed their corn, that they had 
ed so hard to bring forward, and killed the milch- 



46 ADVKNTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

goat and their three kidsy which was all they had pro- 
vided for their sustenance ; and that if he and his fnendt, 
meaning the Spaniards, did not assist them again, they 
should be starved. When the Spaniards came home 
at night, and they were all at supper, he took the 
ftvedom to reprove the three Englishmen, though in 
very gentle and mannerly terms, and asked them bow 
they could be so cruel, they being harmless, inoffensive 
fellows, and that they were only putting themselves 
in a way to subsist by their labour, and that it had cost 
them a great deal of pains to bring things to such per- 
fection as they had. 

One of the Englishmen returned very briskly. What 
had they to do there ? that they came on shore with- 
out leave, and they should not plant or build upon the 
island ; it was none of their ground. ** Why," says 
the Spaniard, very calmly, ^< Seignior Inglese, they 
must not starve." The Englishman replied, like 
a true rough-hewn tarpaulin, *'They might starve 
and be damned, they should not plant nor buikL" 
<< But what must they do then, seignior ? " said 
the Spaniard. Another of the brutes returned, ** Do ! 
d — n 'em, they should be servants, and work for 
them." " But how can you expect that of them ? " 
says the Spaniard ; *^ they are not bought with your 
money; you have no right to make them servants." 
The Englishman answered, the island was theirs, 
the governor had given it to them, and no man had 
anything to do there but themselves; and with that 
swore by his Maker that they would go and bum all 
their new huts, they should build none upon their 
land. 

" Why, seignior," says the Spaniard, " by the same 
rule, we must be your servants too." " Ah," says the 
bold dog, ** and so you shall too, before we have done 
with you ; " mixing two or three G — d damme's in 



XnVENTTTBEB OF SOEINSON CRUSOS. 47 

the proper intervals of his speech. The Spaniard only 
amiled at that, and made him no answer. However, this 
little discourse ktd heated them ; and starting up, one 
says to the other, I think it was he they called Will 
Atkins, " Come, Jack, let us go and have t'other brush 
with them; we'll demolish their castle, I'll warrant 
yon I they shall plant no colony in our dominions." 

Upon this they went all trooping away, with every 
man a gun, a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some 
insolent things among themsekes of what they would 
do to the Spaniards too when opportunity offered. 
But the Spntards, it seems, did not so perfectly under- 
stand them as to know all the particulars ; only that, 
in general, they threatened them hard for taking the 
two Englishmen's pan. 

Whither they went, or how they bestowed their 
time that evening, the Spaniards said they did not know ; 
but it seems they wandered about the country part of 
the night ; and then lying down in the place which I 
used to call my bower, they were weary, and overslept 
themselves. The case was this : they had resolved to 
stay till midnight, and so to take the two poor men 
when they were asleep ; and as they acknowledged 
afterwards, intended to set fire to their huts while they 
were in them, and either buin them in them, or murder 
them 3S they came out ; and as malice seldom sleeps 
very sound, it was very strange they should not have 
been kept waking. 

However, as the two men had also a design upon 
them, as I have said, though a much fairer one than that 
of burning and murdering, it happened, and very luckily 
for them all, that they were up and gone abroad, 
before the bloody-minded rogues came to their huts, 

When they came there and found the men go 
AUuns, who it seems was the forwardest man, called 
out to his comrades, " Ha ! Jack, here's 



J 



48 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

but d — D 'em, the birds are flown." They miued 
awhile to think what should be the occasion of their 
being gone abroad so soon, and suggested presently 
that the Spaniards had given them notice or it ; and 
with that they shook hands, and swore to one another 
that they would be revenged of the Spaniards. As 
soon as they had made this bloody bargain, they fell to 
work with the poor men's habitation. They did not set 
fire indeed to anything, but they pulled down both their 
little houses, and pulled them so limb from limb, that they 
left not the least stick standing, or scarce any sign on 
the ground where they stood ; they tore all their little 
collected household stuff in pieces, and threw everything 
about in such a manner, that the poor men afterwards 
found some of their things a mile off of their habitation. 

When they had done this, they pulled up all the 
young trees the poor men had planted ; pulled ap an 
enclosure they had made to secure their cattle and their 
corn; and in a word, sacked and plundered every- 
thing as completely as a horde of Tartars would have 
done. 

The two men were at this juncture gone to find them 
out, and had resolved to fight them wherever they had 
been, though they were but two to three ; so that, had 
they met, there certainly would have been bloodshed 
among them; for they were all very stout, resolute 
fellows, to give them their due. 

But Providence took more care to keep them asunder 
than they themselves could do to meet ; for as if they 
had dogged one another, when the three were gone 
thither, the two were here ; and afterwards, when the 
two went back to find them, the three were come to 
the old habitation again ; we shall see their differing 
conduct presently. When the three came back, like 
furious creatures, flushed with the rage which the work 
they had been about had put them into, they came up 



JIVENTORES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



Ranvi 
Spaoiarda, aod told them what they had done, 
□y way of acoff and bravado ; aodoneof them stepping 
up to ooe of the Spaniards, aa if they had been a couple 
of boys at play, takes hold of his hat, ai it was upon 
his head, and giving it a twirl about, sneering in his face, 
says he to him, " And you. Seignior Jack Spaaiard, 
shall have the same sauce if you do not mend your 
manners." The Spaniard, who though a quiet, civil 
nian, was as brave as a man could be desired to be, and 
withal a strong, well-made man, looked steadily at him 
for a good while, and then, having no weapon in his 
hand, stepped gravely up to him, and with one blow of 
hii fist knocked him down, as an ox is felled with a 
pole-axe ; at which one of the rogues, insolent as the 
first, Gred his pistol at the Spaniard immediately. He 
nussed his body indeed, for the bullets went through 
bis hair, but one of them touched the tip of his ear, and 
he bled pretty much. The blood made the Spaniard 
believe he was more hurt than he really was, and that 
put him into some heat, for before he acted all in a 
perfect calm ; but now resolving to go through with his 
^^ork, he stooped to take the fellow's musket whom 
•»« had knocked down, and was just going to shoot the 
"taa who had fired at him, when the rest of the 
Spaniards, being in the cave, came out, and calling to 
"im not to ahoot, they stepped in, secured the other 
^Wo, and look their arms from them. 

When they were thus disarmed, and found they had 
made all the Spaniards their enemies, as well as their 
own countrymen, they began to cool ; and giving the 
Is better words, would have had their arms 
But the Spaniards, considering the feud that 
between them and the other two Englishmen, and 
that it would be the best method they could take to 
keep them from killing one another, told them they . 
would do them no harm ; and if they would live J 



again. 



50 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

peaceably, they would be very willing to asnst and 
associate with them, as they did before ; but that they 
could not think of giving them their arms again while 
they appeared so resolved to do mischief wiUi them to 
their own countrymen, and had even threatened them 
all to make them their servants. 

The rogues were now no more capable to hear reason 
than to act reason ; and being refiised their arms, they 
went raving away, and raging like madmen, threatening 
what they would do, though they had no firearms. But 
the Spaniards, despising their threatening, told thens. 
they should take care how they offered any injury t9 
their plantation or cattle ; for if they did, diey woulcL 
shoot them as they would do ravenous beasts, wherever 
they found them ; and if they fell into their hand» 
alive, they should certainly be hanged. However, thi» 
was far from cooling them ; but away they went, raging 
and swearing like furies of hell. As soon as they werer 
gone, came back the two men in passion and rage enough, 
also, though of another kind ; for having been at theii* 
plantation, and finding it all demolished and destroyed^ 
as above, it will easily be supposed they had provocatioa 
enough. They could scarce have room to tell their 
tale, the Spaniards were so eager to tell them theirs ; 
and it was strange enough to find three men thus 
bully nineteen, and receive no punishment at all. 

The Spaniards indeed despised them, and especially 
having thus disarmed them made light of all their 
threatenings ; but the two Englishmen resolved to have 
their remedy against them, what pain soever it cost to 
find them out. 

But the Spaniards interposed here too, and told them 
that as they had disarmed them, they could not consent 
that they (the two) should pursue them with firearms, 
and perhaps kill them. ** Bu^'' said the grave Spaniard, 
who was their ap^ -"M endeavour to make 



f ADVENTURES OF 

a do you juBUce, if you will leave it to ut> ; for as 
there ia no doubt but they will come to ua again when 
their passion is over, being not able to subsist without 
lur assistance, we promise you to make no peace ' 
with them without having a full satisfaction for you ; 
upon this condition we hope you will promise to 
use DO violence with ihem, other than in your own 

The two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly, 
and with great reluctance ; but Che Spaniards protested 
they did it only to keep them from bloodshed, and to 
make ail easy at last. " For," said they, " we are not 
o many of us ; here is room enough for us all, and it 
B great pity we should not be all good friends." At 
length they did consent, and waited for the issue of the 
thing, living for some days with the Spaniards, for 
their own habitation was destroyed. 

In about five days' time the three vagrants, tired with 
wandering, and almost starved with hunger, having 
chieHy lived on turtles' eggs al! that while, came back 
to the grove, and iinding my Spaniard, who, as I have 
8 the governor, and two more with him, walking 
by the side of the creek, they came up in a very sub- 
missive, humble manner, and begged to be received again 

D the family. The Spaniards used them civilly, hut 
told them they had acted so unnaturally by their 
countrymen, and so very grossly by them (the 
rdfl), that they could not come to any con- 
I without consulting the two Englishmen and 
the rest ; hut, however, they would go to them, and 
discourse about it, and they should know in half-an- 
hour. It may be guessed that they were very hard 
put to it, for it seems, as they were to wait this half- 
hour for an answer, they begged he would send them 

t some bread in the meantime ; which he did, and 

It them al the same time a large piece ol goat's flesh 



53 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

and a broiled parrot, which they eat very heartily^ for 
they were hungry enough. 

After half-an-hour's consultation they were called in, 
and a long debate had among them, their two country- 
men charging them with the ruin of all their labour, 
and a design to murder them ; all which they owned 
before, and therefore could not deny now. Upon the 
whole, the Spaniard acted the moderator between 
them ; and as they had obliged the two Englishmen 
not to hurt the three while they were naked and un- 
armed, so they now obliged the three to go and build 
their fellows' two huts, one of the same, and the other 
of larger dimensions than they were before ; to fence 
their ground again, where they had pulled up the fences, 
plant trees in the room of those pulled up, dig up the 
land again for planting corn, where they had spoiled 
it ; and, in a word, to restore everything in the same 
state they found it, as near as they could ; for 
entirely it could not be, the season for the corn, and 
the growth of the trees and hedges, not being possible 
to be recovered. 

Well, they submitted to all this, and as they had 
plenty of provisions given them all the while, they 
grew very orderly, and the whole society began to 
live pleasantly and agreeably together ; only that 
these three fellows could never be persuaded to work, 
I mean for themselves, except now and then a little, 
just as they pleased. However, the Spaniards told them 
plainly that if they would but live sociably and friendly 
together, and study in the whole the good of the plan- 
tation, they would be content to work for them, and 
let them walk about and be as idle as they pleased ; 
aud thus having lived pretty well together for a month 
or two, the Spaniards gave them arms again, and 
gave them liberty to go abroad with them as before. 

It was not above a week after they had these arms. 



ADVENTURES OF RORINSON CRUSOE. 53 

and went abroad, but the ungrateful creatures began to 
be ioBolent aod troublcBOme as before ; but, however, 
an accident happening presently upon this, which en- 
dangered the safety of them all, they were obliged to 
lay by all private resentments, and look to the preserva- 
don of their lives. 

It happened one night that the Spaniard governor, 
as I call him, that is to say, the Spaniard whose life I 
had saved, who was now the captain, or leader, or 
governor of the rest, found himself very uneasy in the 
night, and couJd by no means get any sleep. He was 
perfectly well in body, as he told me the story, only 
found his thoughts tumultuous ; his mind ran upon 
men fighting, and killing of one another, but was broad 
awake, and coiJd not by any means gel any sleep. In 
short, he lay a great while ; but growing more and 
more uneasy, he resolved to rise. As they lay, being so 
many of them, upon goat's-skins, laid thick upon such 
couches and pads as they made for themselves, not in 
hammocks and ship-beds, as I did, who was but one ; 
so they had little to do, when they were willing to 
rise, but to get up upon their feet, and perhaps put on a 
coat, sucli as it was, and their pumps, and they were 
ready for going any way that their thoughts guided 
ihem. 

Being thus gotten up, he looked out ; but being 
darln, he could see little or nothing ; and besides, the 
trees which I had planted, as in my former account is 
described, and which were now grown tall, intercepted 
his light, BO that he could only look up, and see that 
it was a clear starlight night ; and hearing no noise, 
be returned and laid him down again ; but it was all 
tme, he could not sleep, nor could he compose himself 
to anything like rest, but his thoughts were to the last 
degree uneasy, and yet he knew not for whaL 

Having made some noise with rising and walking 



1 



54 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

about, going out and coming in, another of them 
waked, and calling, asked who it was that was upi 
The governor told him how it had been with him. 
<<Say you so?" says the other Spaniard; ^snch 
things are not to be slighted, I assure yon ; there is 
certainly some mischief working," s ays he, <«near 
us ; " and presently he asked him, ** W here are the 
linglishmen ? " ** They are all in their hots," says 
he, ** safe enough." It seems the Spaniards had kept 
possession of the main apartment, and had made a 
place where the three Englishmen, since their last I ac 
mutiny, always quartered by themselves, and could 1^2 
not come at the rest. <<Well," says the Spaniafd, 1^ 
** there is something in it, I am persuaded firom 017 
own experience. I am satisfied our spirits embodied 
have a converse with, and receive intelligence from, tb^ 
spirits unembodied, and inhabiting the invisible worl^) 
and this friendly notice is given for our advantage^ ^ 
we know how to make use of it. Come," says Ic^' 
** let us go out and look abroad ; and if we find nothl-^^^ 
at all in it to justify the trouble, I will tell yon a stor^'*' ^r 
the purpose, that shall convince you of the justice ^ 

my proposing it." 

In a word, they went out to go up to the top of ^^^\\ 
hill, where I used to go ; but they, being strong, a^^^^y 
in good company, not alone, as I was, used none ? 

my cautions to go up by the ladder, and then pulling:^^^ ' 
up after them to go up a second stage to the top, ' ^^"^^ 
were going round through the grove, unconcerned 
unwary, when they were surprised with seeing a ligl 
as of nre, a very Uttle way off fi-om them, and hearic^^^ 
the voices of men, not of one or two, but of a gre^^* 
number. 

In all the discoveries I had made of the savag^^'^ 
landing on the island, it wii my constant care t<^ 
prevent them making th» l*«Mt dilcovery of there bein^ 






iVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



55 



and when by any 



e escape ti 
'., of wbom I 



inhabitant upon t} 

they came to know it, they felt 
tually, that they thai got away were aca 
gi?e any account of it, for we disappeared 
possible, nor did ever any that had seen n 
tell any one else, except it were the three s: 
■ last encounter, who jumped into the boa 
mentioDed that 1 was afraid they should go home and 
bring more help. 

Whether it was the consequence of the escape of 
those men that so great a number came now together, 
or whether they came ignorantly, and by accident, on 
their usual bloody errand, they could not, it seems, 
onderstand ; but whatever it was, it had been their 
business, either to have concealed themselves, as not 
to have seen them at all, much less to have let the 
savages have seen that there were any inhabitants in 
iJie place ; or to have fallen upon them ao effectually, 
as that not a man of them should have escaped, which 
'Could only have been by getting in between them and 
their boats. But this presence of mind was wanting to 
Xhem, which was the ruin of their tranquillity for a 
'^reat while. 

We need not doubt but that the governor and the 
man with him, surprised with this sight, ran back 
|. immediately, and raised their fellows, giving them an 
account of the imminent danger they were all in, and 
they again as readily took the alarm ; but it was im- 
pouible to persuade them to stay close within where 
tiiey were, but that they must run all out to see how 
things stood. 

While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough, 
and they had opportunity enough, for some hours, to 
new them by the light of three (ires they had made 
It a distance from one another. What they were doing 
they knew not, and what to do themselves ihey knew 



N 



56 ADVENTURES OF ROP1NSON CRUSObJ 

not i for, first, the enemy were too many | 
secondly, they did not keep together, but were divided 
into several prties, and were on shore in several pla«»> 
The Spaniards were in no small consternadon at 
this eight ; and as they found that the fellows nn 
straggling all over the shore, they made no doubt but, 
lirst or last, some of them would chop in upon ttidr 
habitation, or upon some other ])lace, where they would 
see the token of inhabitants ; and they were id great 
perplexity also for fear of their flock of goats, which 
would have been little less than starving them if tbey 
shodd have been destroyed ; so the first thing they 
resolved upon, was to despatch three men away before 
it was light, viz., two Spaniards and one Englishman, 
to drive all the goats away to tlie great valley where 
the cave was, and if need were to drive them into the 

Could they have seen the savages all together in one 
body, and al any distance from their canoes, they re- 
solved, if they had been an hundred of them, to have 
attacked them ; but that could not be obtained, for 
they were some of them two miles off from the other, 
and, as it appeared afterwaids, were of two diiFcrenl 

After having mused a great while on the course they 
should take, and beaten their brains in considering their 
present circumstances, they resolved at last, while it 
was dark, to send the old savage, Friday's fatlier, out 
as a spy, to learn if possible something concerning them, 
what they came for, and what they intended to do. The 
old man readily undertook it, and stripping himself quite 
naked, as most of the savages were, away he went. After 
he had been gone an hour or two, he brings word that 
he had been among them undiscovered, that he found 
they were two parties, and of two several nations, who 
had war with ** 'bad had a great battle 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOK. 57 

in their own couatry, and that both Bides having had 
several prisoners taken in the fight, they were by mere 
chance landed all in the same island for the devouring 
their prisoDejB, and making merry, but their coming so 
by chance to the same place had spoiled all their mirth } 
that they were in a great rage at one another, and that 
they were so near, that he believed they would fight again 
as soon as daylight began to appear ; but he did not 
perceive that they had any notion of anybody's being on 
the island but themaelves. He had hardly made an end 
of telling his story, when they could perceive, by the 
unusual noise they made, that the two litUc armies were 
engaged in a bloody fight. 

Friday's father used all the arguments he could to 
persuade our people to lie close, and not be seen. He 
lold them their safety consisted in it, and that they had 
nothing to do but lie still, and the savages would kill 
one another to their hands, and then the rest would go 
away ; and it was so to a tittle. But it was impossible 
to prevail, especially upon the Englishmen, their curi- 
osity Wits BO importunate upon their prudentials, that 
they must run out and see the battle. However, they 
used some caution too, viz., they did not go openly just 
by their own dwelling, but went farther into the woods, 
and placed themselves to advantage, where they might 
securely see them manage the fight, and, as they thought, 
not to be seen by them ; but it seems the savages did see 
them, as we shall find hereafter. 

The battle was very fierce, and if I might believe the 
Englishmen, one of them said he could perceive that 
some of them were men of great bravery, of invincible 
spirit, and of great policy in guiding the fight. The 
battle, they said, held two hours before they could guess 
which party would be beaten ; but then that party which 
was nearest our people's habitation began to appear 
weakest, and after some time more, some ol them began 



58 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

to fly ; and this put our men again into a great con- 
sternation, lest any of those that fled should nm into 
the grove before their dwelling for shelter, and thereby 
involuntarily discover the place, and that by consequeoce 
the pursuers should do the like in search for them. 
Upon this they resolved that they would stand armed 
within the wall, and whoever came into the grove they 
should sally out over the wall and kill them, so that 
if possible not one should return to give an account of 
it. They ordered, also, that it should be done with their 
swords, or by knocking them down with the stock of 
the musket, but not by shooting them, for fear of the 
noise. 

As they expected, it fell out. Three of the routed 
army fled for life, and crossing the creek ran directly 
into the place, not in the least knowing whither they 
went, but running as into a thick wood for shelter. The 
scout they kept to look abroad gave notice of this within, 
with this addition, to our men's great satisfaction, viz., 
that the conquerors had not pursued them, or seen which 
way they were gone. Upon this the Spaniard governor, 
a man of humanity, would not suffer them to kill the 
three fugitives ; but sending three men out by the top 
of the hill, ordered them to go round and come in 
behind them, surprise, and take them prisoners, which 
was done. The residue of the conquered people fled to 
their canoes, and got off to sea ; the victors retired, and 
made no pursuit, or very little, but drawing themselves 
into a body together gave two great screaming shouts, 
which they supposed was by way of triumph, and 
so the fight ended; and the same day, about three 
o'clock in the afternoon, they also marched to their 
canoes. And thus the Spaniards had their island again 
free to themselves, their fright was over, and they saw 
no savages in several years after. 

After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of 



ftOVWWTORBS OF TtOBINSON CRtlSOE. 59 

their den, and viewing the field of battle, they found 
about two and thirty dead men upon the spot. Some 
were killed with great loog arrows, some of which were 
found sticking in their bodies ; but moat of them were 
lulled with their great wooden swords, sixteen or seven- 
teen of which they found in thefieldof battle,andasmany 
bows, with a great many arrows. These swords were 
strange great unwieldy things, and they must be very 
atroQg men that used them. Moat of those men that 
were killed with them had their he^s mashed to pieces, 
as we may say, or, as we call it in English, their brains 
knocked out, and several their arms and legs broken ; 
so that 'tis evident ihey fight with inexpressible rage 
and fury. We found not one wounded man that was 
not stone dead ; for either they stay by their enemy 
till they have quite killed him, or they carry alt the 
wounded men, that are not tjuite dead, away with 
them. 

This deliverance tamed our Gngliahmen for a great 
while. The sight had filled them with horror, and the 
consequences appeared terrible to the last degree, even 
to them, if ever they should fall into the hands of those 
creatures, who would not only kill them as enemies, but 
kill them for food, as we kill our cattle. And they 
professed to me that the thoughts of being eaten up 
Lke beef or mutton, though it was supposed it was not 
to be till they were dead, had something in it ao 
horrible, that it nauseated their very stomachs, made 
tbem sick when they thought of it, and filled their 
minds with such unusual terror, that they were not 
themselves for some weeks after. 

This, as I said, tamed even the three English brutes 
I have been speaking of, and for a great while after 
ihey were very tractable, and went about the comi 
business of their whole society well enough ; plan 
sowed, reaped, and began to be all naturalised to 



6o ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

country. But some time after this they fell all into 
such measures as brought them into a great deal of 
trouble. 

They had taken three prisoners, as I had observed; 
and these three being lusty stout young fellows, they 
made them servants, and taught them to work for 
them, and as slaves they did well enough ; but they 
did not take their measures with them as I did by my 
man Friday, vis^, to begin with them upon the principle 
of having saved their lives, and then instruct them in 
the rational principles of life, much less of reli^on, 
civilising and reducing them by kind usage and 
affectionate arguings ; but as they gave them their food 
every day, so they gave them their work too, and kept 
them fully employed in drudgery enough ; but they 
failed in this by it, that they never had them to assist 
them and fight for them as I had my man Friday, who 
w^s as true to me as the very flesh upon my bones. 

But to come to the family part. Being all now good 
friends — ^for common danger, as I said above, had 
effectually reconciled them — ^they began to consider 
their general circumstances; and the first thing that 
came under their consideration was, whether, seeing 
the savages particularly haunted that side of the island, 
and that there were more remote and retired parts of it 
equally adapted to their way of living, and manifestly 
to their advantage, they should not rather remove their 
habitation, and plant in some more proper place for 
their safety, and especially for the security of their 
cattle and com. 

Upon this, after long debate, it was concluded that 
they would not remove their habitation, because that, 
some time or other, they thought they might hear from 
their governor again, meaning me ; and if I should send 
any one to seek them, I should be sure to direct them 
to that side, where, if they should find the place 



' ADVENTUSBS OF ROBINSON CROSOE. 

demoIlBhed, they would conclude the savages had killed I 
ua all, and we were gone, and bo our supply woul ' 

But as to their corn and cattle, they agreed I 
femove them into the valley where my cave wai 
where the land was as proper for both, and where 
indeed there was land enough. However, upon second 
thoughts they altered one part of that resolution too, 
and resolved only to remove part of their catUe thither, 
and plant part of their corn there j and so, if one part 
was destroyed, the other might be saved. And one 
part of prudence they used, which it was vei'y well they 
did, viz., that they never trusted those three savages, 
which they had prisoners, with knowing anything of 
the plantation they had made in that valley, or of any 
cattle they had there ; much less of the cave there, 
which they kept in case of necessity as a safe retreat, 
and whither they carried also the two barrels of powder 
which I had sent them at my coming away. 

But, however, they resolved not to change their 
habitation ; yet they agreed that as I had carefully 
covered it first with a wall, or fortification, and then 
with a grove of trees, so seeing their safety consisted I 
cDUrely in their being concealed, of which they were 
now fully convinced, they set to work to cover and 
conceal the place yet more effectually than before. To 
this purpose, as I had planted trees (or rather thrust in 
stakes which in time all grew up to be trees) for some 
good distance before the entrance into my apartment, 
they went on in the same manner, and filled up the 
rest of that whole space of ground, from the trees I 
had set quite down to the side of the creek, where, as 
I said, I landed my iloats, and even in the very ooze 
where the tide flowed, not so much as leaving any 
place to land, or any sign that there had been any 
landing thereabout. These stakes also being of a \ 



62 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

very forward to grow, as I have noted formerly, they 
took care to have generally very much larger and taller 
than those which I had planted; and as they grew 
apace, so they planted them so very thick and close 
together, that when they had been three or four years 
grown, there was no piercing with the eye any con- 
siderable way into the plantation. And as for that 
part which I had planted, the trees were grown as 
thick as a man's thigh ; and among them they placed 
so many other short ones, and so thick, that, in a word, 
it stood like a palisado a quarter of a mile thick, and it 
was next to impossible to penetrate it but with a litde 
army to cut it all down ; for a little dog could hardly 
get between the trees, they stood so close. 

But this was not all ; for they did the same by all 
the ground to the right hand, and to the left, and 
round even to the top of the hill, leaving no way, not 
so much as for themselves to come out but by the 
ladder placed up to the side of the hill, and then lifted 
up and placed again from the first stage up to the top ; 
which ladder, when it was taken down, nothing but 
what had wings or witchcraft to assist it could come 
at them. 

This was excellently well contrived, nor was it less 
than what they afterwards found occasion for ; which 
served to convince me, that as human prudence has 
the authority of Providence to justify it, so it has, 
doubtless, the direction of Providence to set it to work ; 
and would we listen carefully to the voice of it, I am 
fully persuaded we might prevent many of the disasters 
which our lives are now, by our own negligence, sub- 
jected to. But this by the way. 

I return to the story. They lived two years after 
this in perfect retirement, and had no more visits from 
the savages. They had indeed an alarm given them one 
morning, which put them into a great consternation ; 



ADVEKTORES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 63 

ibr some of the SpauWds being out early one morning 
on the west flide, or rather the end of the island, which, 
by the way, was that end where I never went, for fear 
of being discovered, they were surprised with seeing 
>boTe twenty canoes of Indians jus: coming on shore. 
made the best of their way home in hurry 
id giving the alarm to their comrades, they 
all that day and the next, going out only at 
make observation. But they had the good luck 

be mistaken, for wherever the Mvages went, they 
Old not land at that time in the island, but pursued some 
otber design. 

And now they had another broil with the three 
Bnglithmen, one of which, a most turbulent fellow, 
bei^ in a rage at one of the three slaves, which I had 
BMtioDed they had taken, because the fellow had not 
doDe something right which he bid him do, and seemed 
a Utile untractable in his showing him, drew a hatchet 
Dutofa frog-belt, in which he wore it by his side, and 
1^11 upon the poor savage, not to correct him, but to 
lull him. Ooe of the Spafliards who was by, fleeing 
him give the fellow a barbai'ous cut with the hatchet, 
which he aimed at his head, but struck into his shoulder 
so ihai he thought he had cut the poor creature's arm 
of) ran to him, and entreating him not to murder the 
poor man, clapped in between him and the savage to 
pfevent the mischief. 

The fellow being enraged the more at this, struck at 
'be Spaniard with his hatchet, and swore he would 
Ktve him as he intended to serve the savage ; which 
''if Spaniard percdving, avoided the blow, and with a 
"bovel which he had in his hand {for they were all 
Working in the field about their corn-land) knocked 
tbe brute down. Another of the Englishmen running 
9t the Game time to help his comrade, knocked the 
Spaniard down ; and then two Spaniards more came in 



64 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

to help their man, and a third Englishman fell in upoo 
them. They had none of them any firearms, or any 
other weapon bat hatchets and other tools, except thti 
third Englishman ; he had one of my old rusty cot- 
lasses, with which he made at the two last Spaniards, 
and wounded them both. This fray set the whole 
family in an uproar, and more help coming in, they 
took the three Englishmen prisoners* The next ques- 
tion was, what should be done with them ? They had 
been so often mutinous, and were so furious, so des- 
perate, and so idle withal, that they knew not what 
course to take with them, for they were mischievous 
to the highest degree, and valued not what hurt they 
did to any man ; so that, in short, it was not safe to 
live with them. 

The Spaniard who was governor told them, in so 
many words, that if they had been of his own country 
he would have hanged them; for all laws and all 
governors were to preserve society, and those who 
were dangerous to the society ought to be expelled out 
of it ; but as they were Englishmen, and that it was to 
the generous kindness of an Englishman that they all 
owed their preservation and deliverance, he would use 
them with all possible lenity, and would leave them to 
the judgment of the other two Englishmen, who were 
their countrymen. 

One of the two honest Englishmen stood up and 
said, they desired it might not be left to them, ** For,'' 
says he, ** I am sure we ought to sentence them to the 
gallows ; " and with that he gives an account how Will 
Atkins, one of the three, had proposed to have all the 
five Englishmen join together, and murder all the 
Spaniards when they were in their sleep. 

When the Spanish governor heard this he calls to 
William Atkins, " How, Seignior Atkins,'* says he, 
<* would you murder us all? What have you to say 



ADVENTURES OF ROHINSON CRUSOE. 65 

to that?" That hardened villain was so far from 
denying it, that he aaid it was true, and G — d d — m 
himif they would not doit atill before they had done with 
them. " Well but. Seignior Atkins," says the Spaniard, 
" what have we done to you that you would kill us ? 
And what would you get by killing ua ? And what 
must we do to prevent you killing us ! Must we 
kill you, or you will kill us ! Why will you put us 
to the necessity of this. Seignior Atkins ? " says the 
Spaniard very calmly, and smiling. 

Sdgnior Atkins was in such a rage at the Spaniard's 
making a jeat of it, that had he not been held by three 
men, and withal had no weapons with him, it was 
thought he would have attempted to have killed the 
Spaniard in the middle of all the company. 

This hair-brained carriiige obliged them to consider 
seriously what was to he done. The two Englishmen 
and the Spaniard who saved the poor savage was of 
the opinion they should hang one of the three for an 
example to the rest ; and that, particularly, it should be 
he that had twice attempted to commit murder with his 
hatchet ; and indeed there was some reason to believe 
he had done it, for the poor savage was in such a 
niiaerable condition with the wound he had received, 
that it was thought he could not live. 

But the governor Spaniard still said. No ; it was an 
Englishman that had saved all their lives, and he would 
lerer consent to put an Englishman to death, though he 
had murdered half of them ; nay, he said, tf he had 
been killed himself by an Englishman, and had time left 
10 speak, it should be that they would pardon him. 

This was so positively insisted on by the governor 
Spaniard, that there was do gainsaying it ; and as 
Bierciful counsels are most apt to prevail where they 
ire BO earnestly pressed, so they all came into it j but 
then it was to be considered what should be done to 



66 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

keep them from doing the mischief they designed ; for 
all agreed, governor and all, that means were to be used 
for preserving the society from danger. After a long 
debate it was agreed, first, that they should be disarmed, 
and not permitted to have either gun, or powder, or 
shot, or sword, or any weapon, and should be turned 
out of the society, and left to live where they would, 
and how they would, by themselves ; but that none of 
the rest, either Spaniards or English, should converse 
with them, speak with them, or have anything to do 
with them ; that they should be forbid to come within 
a certain distance of the place where the rest dwelt ; 
and that if they offered to commit any disorder, so as 
to spoil, bum, kill, or destroy any of the corn, plantings, 
buildings, fences, or cattle belonging to the society, they 
should die without mercy, and they would shoot them 
wherever they could find them. 

The governor, a man of great humanity, musing upon 
the sentence, considered a little upon it, and turning to 
the two honest Englishmen said, <<Hold, you must 
reflect that it will be long ere they can raise corn and 
cattle of their own, and they must not starve ; we must 
therefore allow them provisions." So he caused to be 
added, that they should have a proportion of com given 
to them to last them eight months, and for seed to sow, 
by which time they might be supposed to raise some 
of their own ; that they should have six milch-goats, 
four he-goats, and six kids given them, as well for 
present subsistence as for a store ; and that they should 
have tools given them for their work in the fields ; such 
as six hatchets, an axe, a saw, and the like ; but they 
should have none of these tools or provisions unless 
they would swear solemnly that they would not hurt or 
injure any of the Spaniards with them, or of their fellow 
Englishmen. 

Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned 



.VDVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 67 

them out to shift for themaelvea. They went away 
sullen and refractory, as neither contented to go away 
or to stay ; hut as there was no remedy they went, 
pretending to go and choose a place where they would 
settle themselves, 10 plant and live by themselves ; and 
some provisions were given them, but no weapons. 

About four or five days after they came again for 
EOme victuals, and gave the governor an account where 
they bad pitched their lents, and marked themselves 
out an habitation and plantation ; and it was a very con- 
venient place indeed, on the remotest part of the island, 
N.E., much about the place where I landed in my first 
voyage when I was driven out to sea, the Lord knows 
whither, in my attempt to smround the island. 

Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and 
contrived them in a manner like my lirst habitation, 
being close under the side of a hill, having some trees 
growing already on three sides of it ; so that by planting 
others it would be very easily covered from the sight, 
unlcBS narrowly searched for. They desired some dried 
goat's-skins for beds and covering, which were given 
them ; and upon giving their words that they woidd not 
disturb the rest, or injure any of their plantations, they 
^ve them hatchets and what other tools they could 
spare, some peas, barley, and rice for sowing, and in 
a word, anything they wanted but arms and ammu- 

They lived in this separate condition about six 
mODths, and had gotten in their firnt harvest, though 
the <]uantity was but small, the parcel of land they had 
planted being but little ; for indeed having all their 
plantation to form, they had a great deal of work upon 
their hands ; and when they came to make boards, and 
pots, and such things, they were quite out of their 
eloiKnt, and could make nothing of it ; and when the 
taioy lesMta came on, for want of a cave in the earth. 



68 ADVENTURES OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

they could not keep their grain dry, and it was in great 
danger of spoiling. And this humbled them much ; so 
they came and begged the Spaoiarda to help them, 
which they very readily did ; and in four days worked 
a great hole in the side of the hill for them, big enough 
to secure their corn and other things from the rain. 
But it was but s poor place at best compared to mine, 
and especially ae mine waa then ; for the Spaniards 
had greatly enlarged it, and made several new apart- 

About three quarters of a year after this scporabon a 
new frolic took these rogues, which, together with the 
former villainy they had committed, brought mischief 
enough upon them, and had very near been the ruin of 
the whole colony. The three new asaociatea began, it 
seems, Co be weary of the laborious life they led, and 
that without hope of bettering their circumstances ; and 
a whim took them that they would make a voyage to 
the continent from whence the savages came, and would 
try if they could not seize upon some prisoners among 
the natives there, and bring them home, so to make 
them do the laborious part of their work for them. 

The project was not so preposterous if they had gone 
no farther ; but they did nothing, and proposed nothing, 
but had either mischief in the design, or mischief in the 
event ; and if I may give my opinion, they seemed to 
be under a blast from Heaven ; for if we will not 
allow a visible curse to pursue visible crimes, how shall 
we reconcile the events of things with the Divine 
justice .' It was certainly an apparent vengeance on 
their crime of mutiny and piracy that brought them to 
the state they were in ; and as they showed not the 
least remorse for the crime, but added new villainies to 
it, such as, particularly, the piece of monstrous cruelty of 
wounding a poor slave because he did not, or perhaps 
could pr to do what he was directed, and 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 69 

to wound him id such a manner as, no question, made 
him a cripple all his life, and in a place where no surgeon 
or medicine could be had for his cure ; and what was 
Btill worse, the murderous intent, or to do justice to the 
crime, the intentional murder, for such to be sure it 
was, as was afterwards the formed design they all laid 
to murder the Spaniards in coli! blood, and in their 
eleni. 

But I leave observing, and return to the story. 
The three fellows come down to the Spaniards one 
moraing, and in very humble terms desired to he 
admitted to speak with them. The Spaniards very 
readily heard what they had to say, which was this, that 
they were tired of living in the manner they did ; that 
they were not handy enough to make the necessaries 
they wanted ; and that, having no help, they found they 
should be starved ; but if the Spaniards would give 
them leave to take one of the canoes which they came 
over in, and give them arms and ammuniuon pro- 
portioned for their defence, they would go over to the 
main, and seek their fortune, and so deliver them from 
the trouble of supplying them with any other pro- 
viiions. 

The Spaniards were glad enough to be rid of them ; 
but yet very honestly represented to them the certain 
destruction they were running into ; told them they had 
Bufiered such hardships upon that very spot, that they 
could, without any spirit of prophecy, te!l them that 
they would be starved or be murdered, and bade them 
consider of it. 

The men replied audaciously, they should be starved 
if they stayed here, for they could network, and would 
oot work, and they could but be starved abroad ; and 
if they were murdered, there was an end of them, 
diey had no wives or children to cry after them ; 
and) in short, insisted importunately upon their demand. 



^ 



7© ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

declaring that they would go whether they would give 
them any arms or no. 

The Spaniards told them with great kindness that 
if they were resolved to go, they should not go like 
naked men, and be in no condition to defend themselves, 
and that though they could ill spare their firearms, hav- 
ing not enough for themselves, yet they would let them 
have two muskets, a pistol, and a cutlass, and each man 
a hatchet, which they thought was sufficient for them. 

In a word, they accepted the offer, and having baked 
them bread enough to serve them a month, and given 
them as much goat's flesh as they could eat while it 
was sweet, and a great basketful of dried grapes, a pot 
full of fresh water, and a young kid alive to kill, they 
boldly set out in a canoe for a voyage over the sea, 
where it was at least forty miles broad. 

The boat was indeed a large one, and would have 
very well carried fifteen or twenty men, and therefore 
was rather too big for them to manage; but as they 
had a &ir breeze and the flood tide with them, they 
did well enough. They had made a mast of a long 
pole, and a sail of four large goat's-skins dried, which 
they had sewed or laced together ; and away they 
went merrily enough. The Spaniards called after 
them, Bon veyajo ; and no man ever thought of seeing 
them any more. 

The Spaniards would often say to one another, and 
to the two honest Englishmen who remained behind, 
how quietly and comfortably they lived now those 
three turbulent fellows were gone. As for their ever 
coming again, that was the remotest thing from their 
thoughts that could be imagined ; when, behold, after two 
and twenty days' absence, one of the Englishmen being 
abroad upon his planting work, sees three strange men 
coming towards him at a distance, with guns upon 
their shoulders. 



ADVENTURES Or ROBINSON CRUSOE. 71 

Away niDs the [<^ngliahniaD as if he was bewitched, 
comes frighted and amazed to the governor Spaniard, 
and tells him they were all undone, for there were 
strangers landed upon the island, he could not tell who. 
Xhe Spaniard, pausing a while, says he to him, "How do 
you mean, you cannot tell who ? They are the aa^ages, 
to be aure." " No, no," says the Englishman, " they 
are men in clothes, with arms." "Nay, then," saya 
the Spaniard, " why are you concerned ? If they are 
not savages, they must be friends ; for there is no 
Christian nation upon earth but will do us good rather 
than harm." 

While they were debating thus, comes the three 
Englishmen, and standing without the wood, which 
was new planted, hallooed to them. They presently 
knew their voices, and so all the wonder of that kind 
ceased. But now the admiration was turned upon another 
question, viz., what could be the matter, and what made 
them come back again ! 

It was not long before they brought the men in ; 
and inquiring where they had been, and what they had 
been doing, they gave them a full account of their 
voyage in a few words, viz., that they reached the 
land in two days, or something less, but finding the 
people alarmed at their coming, and preparing with 
bowa and arrows to fight them, they durst not go on 
shore, but sailed on to the northward six or seven 
bours, till they came to a great opening, by which they 
perceived that the land they saw from our island was 
not the main, but an island ; that entering that opening 
of the sea, they saw another island on the right hand 
north, and several more west ; and being resolved to 
land somewhere, they put over to one of the islands 
which lay west, and went boldly on shore ; that they 
found the people eery courteous and friendly to them, 
and that they gave them several roots, and some dried 



72 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOK. 

fishy and appeared very sociable; and the womeiiy as 
well as the meoy were very forward to supply them 
with an3rthing they could get for them to eat, and 
brought it to them a great way upon their heads. 

They continued here four days, and inquired, as 
well as they could of them by signs, what nations were 
this way, and that way ; and were told of several fierce 
and terrible people, that lived almost every way; 
who, as they made signs to them, used to eat men; 
but as for themselves, they said that they never ate 
men or women, except only such as they took in the 
wars ; and then they owned that they made a great 
feast, and ate their prisoners. 

The Englishmen inquired when they had a feast of 
that kind, and they told him about two moons ago, 
pointing to the moon, and then to two fingers; and 
that their great king had two hundred prisoners now, 
which he had taken in his war, and they were feeding 
them to make them fat for the next feast. The 
Englishmen seemed mighty desirous to see those 
prisoners, but the other mistaking them, thought they 
were desirous to have some of them to carry away for 
their own eating. So they beckoned to them, pointing 
to the setting of the sun, and then to the rising ; which 
was to signify, that the next morning at sun-rising they 
would bring some for them ; and accordingly the next 
morning they brought down five women and eleven 
men, and gave them to the Englishmen to carry with 
them on their voyage, just as we would bring so many 
cows and oxen down to a seaport town to victual a 
ship. 

As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at 
home, their stomachs turned at this sight, and they did 
not know what to do. To refuse the prisoners would 
have been the highest affront to the savage gentry that 
offered them ; and what to do with them they knew 



I ADVENTURES OF 



73 



Howeter, upon some debates, ihcy resolved to 
sccept of them ; and in return they gave the savages 
thii brought them one of their hatchets, an old key, a 
kife, and six or seven of their bullets, which though 
tteydid not UDderetand, they seemed extremely pleased 
*ilh! and then tying the poor creatures' hands behind 
ihcm, they (the people) dragged the poor prisoners into 
the f»at for our men. 

The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon 
n they had them, or efse they that gave them this 
Doble present would certainly have expected that they 
should have gone to work with them, have killed two 
or three of them the next morning, and perhaps have 
lOTited the donors to dinner. 

But having taken their leave with all the respects 
and thanks that could well pass between people where, 
on either side, they understood not one word they 
could say, they put otFwith their boat, and came back 
towards the first island, where when they arrived they 
»rt eight of their prisoners at liberty, there being loo 
"Uny of them for their occasion. 

la thdr voyage they endeavoured to have some com- 
"niaicaiion with their prisoners, but it was impossible to 
nuke ihcm understand anything ; nothing they could 
■sy to them, or give them, or do for them, but was 
looked upon as going about to murder them. They first 
of all unbound them, but the poor creatures screamed 
31 diat, especially the women, as if they had just felt 
lie knife at their throats ; for they immediately con- 
cluded they were unbound on purpose to be killed. 

If they gave them anything to eat, it was the same 
liiniJ then they concluded it was for fear they should 
inik in flesh, and so not be fat enough to kill i if they 
looked at one of them more particularly, the party 
presently concluded it was to see whether he or she 
was fattest and fittest to kill; nay, after they had 



74 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

brought them quite over, and began to use them kindly, 
and treat them weU, still they expected every day to 
make a dinner or supper for their new masters. 

When the three wanderers had given this unaccount- 
able history or journal of their voyage, the Spaniard 
asked them where their new family was ? And being 
told that they had brought them on shore, and pot 
them into one of their huts, and were come up to beg 
some victuals for them, they, the Spaniards and the 
other two Englishmen, that is to say, the whole colony, 
resolved to go all down to the place and see them, and 
did so, and Friday's father with them. 

When they came into the hut, there they sat all 
bound; for when they had brought them on shore 
they bound their hands, that they might not take the 
boat and make their escape. There, I say, they sat, all 
of them stark naked. First, there were three men, 
lusty, comely fellows, well shaped, straight and fair 
limbs, about thirty to thirty-five years of age, and five 
women, whereof two might be from thirty to forty, 
two more not above four or five and twenty, and the 
fifth, a tall, comely maiden, about sixteen or seventeen. 
The women were well favoured, agreeable persons, 
both in shape and features, only tawny; and two of 
them, had they been perfect white, would have passed 
for very handsome women, even in London itself, having 
pleasant, agreeable countenances, and of a very modest 
behaviour, especially when they came afterwards to be 
clothed, and dressed, as they called it, though the dress 
was very indifferent, it must be confessed ; of which 
hereafter. 

The sight, you may be sure, was something uncouth 
to our Spaniards, who were, to give them a just char- 
acter, men of the best behaviour, of the most calm, 
sedate tempers, and perfect good-humour that ever I 
met with ; and, in particular, of the most modesty, as 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 7S 

will presently appear ; I say, the sight was very un- 
couth to see three naked men and five naked women, 
all together bound, and in the most miserable circum- 
stances that human nature could be supposed to be, viz., 
to be expecting every moment to be dragged out and 
have their brains knocked out, and then to be eaten up 
like a calf that is killed for a dainty. 

The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian, 
Friday's father, to go in and see first if he knew any of 
them, and then if he understood any of their speech. 
As soon as the old man came in, he looked seriously 
at them, hut knew none of them ; neither could any of 
them understaod a word he said, or a sign he could 
make, except one of the women. 

However, this was enough to answer the end, which 
was to satisfy them that the men into whose hands ihey 
were fallen were Christians ; that they abhorred eating 
of men or women, and that they might be sure they 
would not be killed. As soon as they were assured of 
this, they discovered such joy, and by such awkward 
and several ways as is hard Co describe, for it seems 
they were of several nations. 

The woman who was their interpreter was bid in 
the next place to ask them if they were willing to be 
servants, and to work for the men who had brought 
them away to save their lives ? At which they all fell 
a-dancing ; and presently one fell to Caking up this, and 
another that, or anything that lay next, to carry on their 
shoulders, Co intimate that they were willing to work. 

The governor, who found that the having women 
among them would presently be attended with some 
inconvenience, and might occasion some strife, and 
perhaps blood, asked the three men what they intended 
to do with these women, and how they intended to use 
them, whether as servants or as women ! One of the 
Englishmen answered very boldly and readily, that they 



76 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

would use chem as both. To which the goverDor « 
" I am not going to restrain you from it ; you are y 
own masters as to that ; but this I thiak is but jus^ for 
avoiding disorders and quarrels amongst you, and I dedre 
it of you for that reason only, viz., that you will ail 
engage, that if any of you take any of these women ai 
a woman, or wife, that he shall take but one ; and that 
having taken one, none else shall touch her ; for though 
we cannot marry any of you, yet 'tis but reasonable tl^t 
while you stay here, the woman any of you takes sboiild 
be maintained by the man that takes her, and should be 
his wife ; I mean," says he, " while he continues here j 
and that none else shall have anything to do with her." 
All this appeared so just, that every one agreed to it 
without any difficulty. 

Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if they 
designed to take any of them ? But every one of them 
answered, " No." Some of them said they had wivea 
in Spain, and the others did not like women that 
were not Christians, and all together declared that 
they would not touch one of them ; which wai 
instance of such virtue as I have not met with ii 
my travels. On the other hand, to be short, the five 
Englishmen took them every one a wife, that is to say, 
a temporary wife ; and so they set up a new form of 
living ; for the Spaniards and Friday's father lived in 
my old habitation, which they had enlarged exceedingly 
within. The three servants which were taken in the late 
battle of the savages, lived with them ; and these carried 
on the main part of the colony, supplying all the rest 
with food, and assisting them in anything hs they could, 
or as Ihey found necessity required. 

But the wonder of this story was, how five such. 
refractory, ill-matched fellows should agree about these 
women, and that t"— '" ' •m should not pitch upon the 
same woi"' "g 'w or three of ther 



ADVENTURES OF ROlllNSON CRUSOE. 77 

were, without comparison, more agreeable than the 
other : but they took a good way enough to prevent 
(Quarrelling among themaelvea ; for they set the live 
women by themselreB in one of their huts, and they 
went ail into the other hut, and drew Iocs among them 
who should choose firat. 

He that drew to choose firat went away by himself 
to the hut where the poor oaked creatures were, and 
fetched out her he chose ; and it was worth observing, 
that he that chose first took her that was reckoned the 
homeliest and the oldest of the five, which made mirth 
enough among the rest ; anderen the Spaniards laughed 
at it. But the fellow considered better than any of them, 
that it was applicauon and business that they were to 
expect assistance in as much as anything else ; and she 
proved the beat wife of all the parcel. 

When the poor women saw themselves set in a row 
thus, and fetched out one by one, the terrors of their 
condition returned upon them again, and they firmly 
believed that they were now a-going to be devoured. 
Accordingly, when the English sailor came in and 
fetched out one of them, the rest set up a most 
lamentable cry, and hung about her, and look their 
leave of her with such agonies and such affection as 
would have grieved the hardest heart in the world ; nor 
was it possible for the Englishmen to satisfy them that 
they were not to he immediately murdered, till they 
fetched the old man, Friday's father, who immediately 
let them know that the five men who had fetched them 
out one by one had chosen them for their wives. 

When they had done, and the fright the women 
were in was a little over, the men went to work, and 
the Spaniards came and helped them ; and in a few 
hours they bad built them every one a new hut or tent 
for their lodging apart ; for those they had already 
were crowded with their tools, household stuff, and 



r 



78 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

provision. The three wicked ones had pitched far- 
thest off, and the two honeat ones nearer, but both 00 
the north shore of the island, so that they condnued 
separate as before ; and thus my island was peopled in 
three places, and, as I might aay, three towns were 
begun to be planted. 

And here 'tis very well worth observing, that ai 
it often happens in the world (what the wise ends of 
God's providence are in such a disposition of thingi 
I cannot say), the two honest fellows had the two 
worst wives ; and the three reprobates, that were 
scarce worth hanging, that were fit for nothing, and 
neither seemed born to do themselves good, or any one 
else, had three clever, diligent, careful, and ingenious 
wives ; not that the two Jirst were ill wives as to their 
temper or humour, for all the live were moBt willing, 
(juiet, passive, and subjected creatures, rather like slavei 
than wives ; but my meaning is, they were not alike 
capable, ingenious, or industrious, or alike cleanly and 
neat. 

Another observation I must make, to the honour 
of a diligent application on one hand, and to the 
disgrace of a slothful, negligent, idle temper on tb^ 
other, that when I came to the place and viewed the 
several improvements, plantings, and management of 
the several little colonies, the two men had so far out- 
gone the three, that there was no comparison. They 
had indeed both of them as much ground laid out for 
as they wanted ; and the reason was, because, 
ire dictated that it was to no. 
I than they wanted ; but the 
ion, of the planting, of the 
ry thing else, was easy to be 



according to my rule, Nati 

difference of the cullivat 
fences, and indeed of eve 



The two men had innumerable young trees planted 
about their hats, that when yoa came to the place 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 79 

nothing was lo be seen but a wood ; and though they 
twice had their piaotations demoliahed, once by 
their own countrymen, and once by the enemy, as 
shall be shown in its place, yet they had restored all 
again, and everything was thriving and flourishing about 
them. They had grapes planted in order, and managed 
like a vineyard, though they bad themselves never seen 
inything of that kind ; and by their good ordering thrir 
fines, their grapes were as good again as any of the 
others. They had also found themselves out a retreat 
in the thickest part of the woods, where, though there 
not a natural cave, as I had found, yet they made 
one with incessant labour of their hands, and where, 
when the mischief which followed happened, they 
secured their wives aod children, so aa they could never 
be found ; they having, by sticking innumerable stakes 
and poles of the wood which, as I said, grew so easily, 

le the wood unpassable except in some places, 
where they climbed up to get over the outside part, 
and then went on by ways of" their own leaving. 

As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them, 
though they were much civilised by their new settle- 
ment compared to what they were before, and were 
Dot BO quarrelsome, having not the same opportunity, 

one of the certain companions of a profligate mind 
never left them, and that was their idleness. It is true, 
they planted com and made fences ; but Solomon's 
■words were never better verified than in them : " I 

It by the vineyard of the alothiUl, and it was all 
overgrown with thorns;" for when the Spaniards 
came 10 view theit crop, they could not see it in some 
places for weeds ; the hedge had several gaps in it, 
where the wild goats had gotten In and eaten up the 

1 ; perhaps here and there a dead bush was crammed 
in to stop them out for the present, but it was only 
shutting the stable door after the steed was stolen. 



i 



8o ADVENTURES OF KOBINSON CRDSOK. 

Whereai, when thpy looked on the colony of the Other 
two, there was the very bee of industry and micceu 
upon all they did ; there was not a weed to be leea 
in all their corn, or a gap in any of their hedges j and 
they, on the other hand, verified Solomon's words in 
aotither place : " That the diligent hand maketh rich ; " 
for everything grew and thrived, and they had plenty 
within and without ; they had more tame cattle thai 
the other, more utensils and necessaries within dooK, 
and yet more pleasure and diversion too. 

It it true, the wives of the three were very handy aod 
cleanly within doors ; and having learned the Englidi 
ways of dressing and cooking from one of the other 
Englishttiea, who, as I said, was cook's male on 
board the ship, they dressed their husbandi' victual* 
very nicely and well ; whereas the other could not be ] 
brought to understand it ; but then the hu^nd, who, | 
at I say, had beea cook's mate, did it himself. But j 
as for the husbands of the three wives, they loitered * 
about, fetched turtles' eggs, and caught fish and birds; 
in a word, anything but labour, and they fared 
accordingly. The diligent lived well and comfort- 
ably, and the slothful lived hard aod beggarly; and 
BO I believe, generally speaking, it is all over the 
world. 

But now I come to a scene diflerent torn all that 
had happened before, either to them or to me; and i 
the ori^nal of the story was this. J 

Early one morning there came on shore five or six I 
canoes of Indians, or savages, call them which you \ 
please ; and there is no room to doubt that they came 
upon the old errand of feeding upon their slaves. But 
that part was now so familiar to the Spaniards, and to 
our mea too, ifaat th^ did not coQcem themselves 
about it, as I did i hot having been made sen^ble by 
their e *heir only business was to lie 



ADVENTURES OF BOBINSOIT CRUSOE. 8l 

concealed, and that, if they were not seen by any of 
the savages, they would go olf again quietly when their 
business waa done, having as yet not the least notion of 
there being any inhabitants in the island i I say, having 
been made sensible of this, they had nothing to do but 
rive notice to all the three plantations to keep within 
I, and not show themselves, only placing a scout 
t^roper place to give notice when the boats went 

This was, without doubt, very right ; but a disaster 
spoiled all these measures, and made it known among 
the savages that there were inhabitants there, which 
xvas, in the end, the desolation of almost the whole 
«:olony. After the canoes with the savages were gone 
^jfT, the Spaniards peeped abroad again, and some of 
*hem had the curiosity to go to the place where tliey 
^■lad been, to ace what they had been doing. Here, to 
■»heir great surprise, they found three savages left be- 
Xiind, and lying fast asleep upon the ground. It was 
supposed they had either been so gorged v/ith their 
mnhuman feast that, like be<ist9, they were asleep, and 
■would not stir when the others went, or they were 
"Wandered into the woods, and did not come back in 
'time to be taken in. 

The Spaniards were greatly suiprised at this sight, 
and perfectly at a loss what to do. The Spaniard 
governor, as it happened, was with them, and hii 
advice was asked ; but he professed he knew not what 
to do. As for slaves, they had enough already; and 
at to killing them, they were none of them in- 
clined to that. The Spaniard governor told me they 
could not think of shedding innocent blood ; for as 
'0 them, the poor creatures had done them no wrong, 
Olvaded none of their property, and they thought they 
"ad no just quarrel against them to take away their lives. 
And here I must, in justice to these Spaniards, 



1 



J 



8l ADVENTITRES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

observe, that let the accounts of Spanish cruelty in 
Mexico and Peru be what they will, I never met with 
seventeen men, of any cation whatsoever, in any foreign 
country, who were so universally modest, temperate, 
virtuous, so very good-humoured, and bo courteous as 
these Spamards ; and as to cruelty, they had nothiog 
of it in their very nature ; no inhumanity, no barbarity, 
no outrageous passions, and yet all of them me 
great courage and spirit. 

Their temper and calmness bad appeared id their 
bearing the insufferable usage of the three Englishmen t 
and their justice and humanity appeared now in the 
case of the savages, as above. After some consultation 
ihey resolved upon this, that they would lie st 
while longer, till, if possible, these three men might 
be gone ; but then the governor Spaniard recollected 
that the three savages had no boat, and that if they 
were left to rove about the island, they would certainly 
discover that there were inhabitants in it, and so they 
should be undone th;tt way. 

Upon this they went back again, and there lay the 
fellows fast asleep still ; so they resolved to waken 
them, and take them prisoners, and they did so. The 
poor fellows were strangely frighted when they v 
seized upon and bound, and afraid, like the won 
that they should be murdered and eaten ; for it ae 
those people think all the world does as they do, eating 
men's flesh ; but they were soon made easy as to that, 
and away they carried them. 

It was very happy to them that they did not carry 
them home to their castle ; I mean, to my palace under 
the hill i but they carried them first to the bower, where 
was the chief of their country work, such as 
keeping the goats, the planting the corn, &c. ; 
afterwards thev r" ' ' •'"■m to the habitation of the 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 83 

Here they were set to work, though it was not 
much they had for them to do ; and whether it was by 
negligence iq guarding them, or that tbey thought the 
fellows could not mend themaelvea, I know not, but 
one of them ran away, and taking into the woods, they 
could never hear of him more. 

They had good reason to believe he got home again 
soon after, in some other boats or canoes of aavages, 
who came on shore three or four weeks afterwards, 
and who, carrying 00 their revels as usual, went off 
again in two days' time. This thought terrified them 
exceedingly ; for they concluded, and that not without 
good cause indeed, that if this fellow came safe home 
among his comrades, he would certainly give them an 
account that there were people in the island, as also 
how few and weak they were ; for this 8;ivage, as I 
observed before, had never been told, and it was very 
happy he had not, how many there were, or where they 
liied, nor had he ever seen or heard the fire of any of 
their guDS, much less had they shown him any of their 
other retired places, such as the cave in the valley, or 
the new retreat which the two Englishmen had made, 
and the like. 

The first testimony they had that this fellow had 
^ven intelligence of them was, that about two months 
after this six canoes of savages, with about seven or 
dght or ten men in a canoe, came rowing along the 
north side of the island, where they never used to come 
before, and landed about an hour after sunrise at a 
convenient place, about a mile from the habitation of 
the two Englishmen, where this escaped man had been 
kept. As the Spiiaiard governor said, had they been 
ail there the damage would not have been so much, for 
not a man of them would have escaped ; but the case 
difficred now very much, for two men to Hfty was too 
mncb odds. The two men had the happiness to dis- 



84 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSOH CRUSOE. 

cover them about a league off, so that it waa above at 
hour before they landed, and as they landed a mili 
from their huts, it was some time before they could 
come at them. Now having great reason to beliere 
that they were betrayed, the first thing they did was to 
bind the two slaves which were left, and cause two of 
the three men whom they brought with the wo 
who, it seems, proved very faithful to them, lo 
them with their two wivca, and whatever they could 
carry away with them, to their retired place in th' 
woods, which I have spoken of above, and there t 
bind the two fellows hand aud foot till they heard 

lo the next place, seeing the savages were all ( 
on shore, and that they bent their course directly that 
way, they opened the fences where their milch-goats 
were kept, and drove them all out, leaving their goats 
to straggle into the woods whither they pleased, that 
the savages might think they were all bred wild ; but 
the rogue who came with them was too cunniog for that, 
and gave them an account of it all, for they i 
directly to the place. 

When the two poor frighted men had secured their 
wives and goods, they sent the other slave they had of 
the three who came vnth the women, and who was 
at their place by accident, away to the Spaniards with 
all speed, to give thero the alarm, and desire speedy 
help ; and in the meantime they took their arms, and 
what ammunition they had, and retreated towards the 
place in the wood where their wives were sent, keep- 
ing at a distance, yet so that they might see, if possible, 
which way the savages took. 

They had not gone far but that, from a rising ground, 
they could see the little army of their enemies come 
on directly to their habitation, and in a moment raore 
could see all their huts and household stuff flaming up 



ADVENTURES OP ROBINSOM CRUSOE, 85 

together, to ih«r great grief and mortification ; for tliey 
had 3 very great loss, to them irretrievaWe, at least for 
Eome time. They kept their station for a while till they 
found the Eavages, like wild beasts, spread themselves 
A\ over the place, rummaging every way, and every 
place they could think of, in search for prey, and 
in particular for the people, of whom it now plainly 
appeared they had iatelligence. 

The two Engliahmen seeing this, thinking them- 
selves not secure where they stood, because as it was 
Jikely some of the wild people might come that way, 
so diey might come too many together, thought 
it proper to make another relreat about half a mile 
farther, believing, as it afterwards happened. Chat 
the farther they strolled the fewer would be to- 
gether. 

The next halt was at the entrance into 3 very thick 
^own part of the woods, and where an old trunk of a 
tree stood, which was hollow, and vastly large ; and 
in this tree they both took their standing, resolving to 
see there what might offer. 

They had not stood there long, but two of the 
savages appeared running directly that way, as !f they 
had already had notice where they stood, and were 
coming up 10 attack them ; and a little way farther they 
spied three more coming after them, and five more 
beyond them, all coming the same way, besides which 
they saw seven or eight more at a distance running 
another way ; for in a word, they ran every way, like 
sportsmen bearing for their game. 

The poor men were now in great perplexity whether 
ihey should stand and keep their posture, or fly ; but 
after a very short debate with themselves, they con- 
sidered, that if the savages ranged the country thus 
before help came, ihey might, perhaps, find out their 
retreat in the woods, then all would be lost ; so they 



J 



86 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

resolved to 8tand them there ; and if they were too 
many to deal with, then they would get up to the top 
of the tree, from whence they doubted not to defend 
themselves, fire excepted, as long as their ammunition 
lasted, though all the savages that were landed, which 
was near fifty, were to attack them. 

Having resolved upon this, they next considered 
whether they should nre at the first two, or wait for 
the three, and so take the middle party, by which the 
two and the five that followed would be separated; 
and they resolved to let the two first pass by, unless 
they should spy them in the tree, and come to attack 
them. The two first savages also confirmed them in 
this regulation, by turning a little from them towards 
another part of the wood ; but the three, and the five 
after them, came forwards directly to the tree, as if 
they had known the Englishmen were there. 

Seeing them come so straight towards them, they 
resolved to take them in a line as they came ; and as 
they resolved to fire but one at a time, perhaps the first 
shot might hit them all three; to which purpose the 
man who was to fire put three or four small bullets 
into his piece, and having a fair loophole, as it were, 
from a broken hole in the tree, he took a sure aim, 
without being seen, waiting till they were within 
about thirty yards of the tree, so that he could not 
miss. 

While they were thus waiting, and the savages came 
on, they plainly saw tliat one of the three was the run- 
away savage that had escaped from them, and they 
both knew him distinctly, and resolved that, if possible, 
he should not escape, though they should both fire ; so 
the other stood ready with his piece, that if he did 
not drop at the first shot, he should be sure to have a 
second. 

But the first was too good a marksman to miss his 



ABVESTOBES of ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

aim ; for &a the aavages kept near one another, a little 
Ijehind in a line, in a word, he fired, and hit two of 
them directly. The foremost was killed outright, being 
shot in the head ; the second, which was the runaway 
Indian, waa shot through the body, and fell, but was 
not quite dead ; and the third had a little scratch in 
the shoulder, perhaps by the same ball that went through 
die body of the second ; and being dreadfully frighted, 
though not much hurt, eat down upon the ground, 
screaming and yelling in a hideous manner. 

The five that were behind, more frighted with the 
noise than seaeibie of the danger, stood sitll at first ; for 
the woods made the sound a thousand times bigger than it 
really was, the echoes rattling from one aide la another, 
and the fowls rising from all prts, screaming and 
malung, every sort, a several kind of noise, according to 
tbeir kind; juat as it was when I fired the first gun 
that, perhaps, was ever shot off in that place since it 
was 3D island. 

However, all being silent again, and they not 
knowing what the matter was, came on unconcerned, 
till they came to the place where their companions lay 
in a condition miserable enough ; and here the poor 
ignorant creatures, not sensible that they were within 
reach of the same mischief, stood all of a huddle over 
the wounded man, laJking, and, as may be supposed, 
intjuiring of him how he came to be hurt ; and who, 
'tis very rational to believe, told them that a flash of fire 
first, and immediately after that thunder from their 
gods, had killed two, and wounded him. This, I 
■ay, is rauonal ; for nothing is more certain than that, 
as they saw oo man near them, so they had never heard 
a gun in all their lives, or so much as heard of a gun ; 
Dcither knew they anything of killing or wounding at a 
dinaoce with fire and bullets. If they had, one might 
reasonably believe they would not have stood io uncon- 




88 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

ceroed in viewing the fate of their fellows without some 
apprehension of their own. 

Our two men, though, as they confessed to me, it 
grieved them to be obliged to kill so many poor 
creatures, who at the same time had no notion of their 
danger ; yet having them all thus in their power, and 
the first having loaded his piece again, resolved to let 
fly both together among them, and singling out, by 
agreement, which to aim at, they shot together, and 
killed, or very much wounded, four of them ; the fifth, 
frighted even to death, though not hurt, fell with the 
rest; so that our men, seeing them all fall together, 
thought they had killed them all. 

The belief that the savages were all killed made our 
two men come boldly out from the tree before they had 
charged their guns again, which was a wrong step, and 
they were under some surprise when they came to the 
place and found no less than four of the men alive, and 
of them two very little hurt, and one not at all. This 
obliged them to fall upon them with the stocks of thdr 
muskets; and first they made sure of the runaway 
savage, that had been the cause of all the mischief, and 
of another that was hurt in his knee, and put them out 
of their pain. Then the man that was not hurt at all 
came and kneeled down to them with his two hands 
held up, and made piteous moans to them by gestures 
and signs for his life, but could not say one word to 
them that they could understand. 

However, they signed to him to sit down at the foot 
of a tree thereby ; and one of the Englishmen, with a 
piece of rope-twine which he had by great chance in his 
pocket, tied his two feet fast together, and his two hands 
behind him, and there they left him, and with what 
speed they could made after the other two which were 
gone before, fearing they, or any more of them, should 
find the way to their covered place in the woods. 



ADVENTURES 

where their wives, and the few goods they had left, 
lay. They came once in sight of the two men, but it 
was at a great distance. However, they had the satis- 
faction to see them cross over a valley towards the sea, 
the quite contrary way from that which led to their 
retreat, which they were afraid of; and being satisfied 
with that, they weot back to the tree where they 
left thdr prisoner, who, as they supposed, was delivered 
by his comrades ; for he was gone, and the two pieces 
of rope-yarn with which they bound him lay just at 
the foot of the tree. 

They were now in as great concern as before, not 
kaowing what course to take, or how near the enemy 
might be, or in what numbers ; so they resolved to go 
away to the place where their wives were, to see if all 
was well there, and to make them easy, who were in fright 
enough to be sure ; for though the savages were their 
own country-folk, yet they were most terribly afraid of 
them, and perhaps the more for the knowledge they 
had of them. 

When they came there, they found the savages had 
been in the wood, and very near that place, but had not 
found it ; for it was indeed inaccessible, by the trees 
standing so thick, as before, had not the persons seeking 
it been directed by those that knew it, which these 
did not. They found, therefore, everything very safe, 
only the women in a terrible fright. While they were 
here they had the comfort to have seven of the Spaniards 
come to their assistance ; the other ten, with their 
servants and old Friday, I mean Friday's father, were 
gone in a body to defend their bower, and the corn and 
cattle that was kept there, in case the savages should 
have roved over to that side of the country ; but they 
did not spread so iar. With the seven Spaniards came 
one of the three savages, who, as I said, were their 
prisoners formerly, and with them also came the savage 



9© ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

whom the Englishmen had left bound hand and foot 
at the tree ; for it seems they came that way, saw the 
slaughter of the seven men, and unbound the eighth, 
and brought him along with them, where, howevefi 
they were obliged to bind him again, as they had 
the two others, who were left when the third ran 
away. 

The prisoners began now to be a burden to them, 
and they were so afraid of their escaping, that they 
were once resolving to kill them all, believing they 
were under an absolute necessity to do so for their own 
preservation. However, the Spaniard governor would 
not consent to it, but ordered tor the present that they 
should be sent out of the way to my old cave in the 
valley, and be kept there, with two Spaniards to guard 
them and give them food for their subsistence, which 
was done ; and they were bound there hand and foot 
for that night. 

When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen 
were so encouraged, that they could not satisfy them- 
selves to stay any longer there ; but taking five of the 
Spaniards, and themselves, with four muskets and 3- 
pistol among them, and two stout quarter-staves, away 
they went in quest of the savages. And first, thejT 
came to the tree where the men lay that had beel> 
killed ; but it was easy to see that some more of th^" 
savages had been there ; for they had attempted vcy 
carry their dead men away, and had dragged two o» 
them a good way, but had given it over. From thence 
they advanced to the first rising ground, where they 
stood and saw their camp destroyed, and where 
they had the mortification still to see some of the 
smoke ; but neither could they here see any of the 
savages. They then resolved, though with all possible 
caution, to go forward towards their ruined plantation ; 
but a little before they came thither, coming in sight of 



1 



IVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. gl 

■ihore, they saw plainly the savages all embarking 
i»gam in their canoes, in order to be gone. 

They seemed sorry at first, and there was no way 
to come at them to give them a parting blow i but 
lopon the whole were very well satisfied to be rid of 

I Xhe poor LEnglishraen being cow twice ruined, and 
liall their improvement destroyed, the rest all agreed 
llto come and help them lo rebuild, and U} assist them 
with needful supplies. Their three countrymen, who 
rwere not yet noted for having the least inclination to 
: any good, yet as soon as they heard of it (for they, 
Kving remote eastward, knew nothing of the matter till 
j;lll was over), came and offered their help and assistance, 
[and did very friendly work for several days to restore 
Itbai habitation, and make necessaries for them ; and 
thus in a little time they were set upon their legs 
ain. 

About two days after this they had the further aatis- 
:tion of seeing three of the savages' canoes come 
driving on shore, and at some distance from them, two 
vlrowned men ; by which they had reason to believe 
that they had met with a storm at sea, and had 
loverset some of them, for it had blown very hard the 
■very night after they went off. 

However, as some might miscarry, so on the other 
hand enough of them escaped to inform the rest, as well 
of what they had done, as of what had happened to 
them, and to whet them on to another enterprise of 
the same nature, which they, it seems, resolved to 
attempt, with sufficient force to carry all before them ; 
for except what the firac man had told them of inhaH- 
tints, they could say little to it of their own knowledge, 
for ihey never saw one man ; and the fellow being 
killed that had alarmed it, they had no other witness 
W confirm it to them. 



w 

* 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

It was five or six montlis after this before they heard 
y more of the savages, in which time our men were 
hopes they had either forgot their former bad luck, or 
given over the hopes of better, when on a suddec they 
were invaded with the most formidable fleet of no less 
than eight and twenty canoes, fiill of savages, anned 
with bows and arrows, great clubs, wooden swords, 
and such like engines of war ; and they brought such 
numbers with them, that, in short, it put ail our people 

As they came on shore in the evening, and at 
easternmost side of the island, our men had that night 
to consult and consider what to do ; and in the first 
place, knowing that their being entirely concealed was 
their only safety before, and would much more be 
now while the number of their enemies was so gre 
they therefore resolved, first of all, to take down the 
huts which were built for the two Englishmen, and 
drive away their goats to the old cave ; because they 
supposed the savages would go directly thither as soon 
as it was day to play the old game over agaio, though 
they did not now land within two leagues of it. 

In the next place, they drove away all the flock of 
goats they had at the old bower, as I called it, which 
belonged to the Spaniards, and, in short, left as little 
appearance of inhabitants anywhere as was possible ; and 
the next moraing early they posted themselves with 
all their force at the plantation of the two men, waiting 
for theic coming. As they guessed, so it happened, 
These new invaders, leaving their canoes at the east end 
of the island, came ranging along the shore, directly 
towards the place, to the number of 250, as near as ou 
men could judge. Our army was but small indeed 
but that which was worse, they had not arms for all 
their number neither. The whole account, it seems, 
stood thus. First, as to the men ; — 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON 



; Englishmen. 

1 Old Friday, or Friday's father. 

3 The three slaves taken with the women, who 

proved very faithful. 
3 Other slaves who lived with the Spaniards. 

To aiTH these they had : — 
1 1 Muskets. 
S Pistols. 
3 Fowling-pieces. 

5 Muskets, or fowling-pieces, which were taken 
by me from the mutinous seamen whom I 
reduced. 

2 Swords, 

3 Old halberds. 

To their slaves they did not give either musket or 
fiisee, but they had every one a halberd, or a long 
BafF, like a quarter -staff, with a great spike of iron 
fastened into each end of it, and by hia side a hatchet ; 
also every one of our men had hatchets. Two of the 
vomeD could not be prevailed upon but they would 
come into the fight, and they had bows and arrows, 
which the Spaniards had taken from the savages when 
the first action happened, which I have spoken of, 
where the Indians fought with one another ; and the 
women had hatchets too. 

The Spaniard governor, whom I have described so 
often, commanded the whole ; and William Atkins, 
who, though a dreadful fellow for wickedness, was 

lost daring, bold fellow, commanded under him. 
The savages came forward like lions, and our men, 
which was the worst of their fate, had no advantage 
' 1 their situation i only that Will Atkins, who now 
proved a most useful fellow, with six men, was planted 



1 



94 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

juBt behind a small thicket of bushes, as an advanced 
guard, with orders to let the first of them pass hy, 
and then fire into the middle of them, and as sooa as < 
he had lired to make his retreat, as nimbly as he could, 
round a part of the wood, and so come in behind the 
Spaniards where they stood, having a thicket of trees 
also before them. 

When the savages came on, they ran straggling about J 
every way in heaps, out of all manner of order, and J 
William Atkins letabout fifty of them pass by him; then I 
seeing the rest come in a very thick throng, he orders I 
three of his men to fire, having loaded their muskeH ^ 
with six or seven bullets apiece, about as big as Itirge 
pistol-bullets. How many they killed or wounded diey ' 
knew not ; but the consternation and surprise was in- 
expressible among the savages. They were frighted 
to the last degree to hear such a dreadHil noise, and i 
see their men killed, and others hurt, but see nobody | 
that did it. When in the middle of their fright 
William Atkins and his other three let fly again among 
the thickest of them, and in less than a minute the first 
three, being loaded again, gave them a third volley. 

Had William Atkins and his men retired imme- 
diately as soon as they had fired, aa they were ordered 
to do, or had the rest of the body been at hand to 
have poured in their shot continually, the savages had 
been effectually routed j for the terror that was among 
them came principally from this, viz., that they were < 
killed by the gods with thunder and lightning, and 
could see nobody that hurt them. But William Atkins, J 
staying to load again, discovered the cheat. Some of j 
the savages, who were at a distance, spying them, carnal 
upon them behind ; and though Atkins and his meftfl 
fired at them also, two or three times, and killed aborel 
twenty, retiring as &st aa they could, yet they wounded ■ 
Atkins himself, and killed one of his fellow Eofj^iih- ' 



ADVENTURES OF 



95 



men with their arrowS) as they did afterwards one 
Spaniard and one of the Indian slaves who came with 
ihe women. This slave was a moat gallant fellow, and 
fought most desperately, killing live of them with his 
own hand, having do weapon but one of the armed 
staves and a hatchet. 

Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded and 
two other men killed, retreated to a rising ground in 
the wood ; and the Spaniards, after firing three volleys 
upon them, retreated also ; for their number was so great, 
and they were so desperate, that though above fifty of 
them were killed, and more than so many wounded, yet 
they came on in the teeth of our men, fearless of danger, 
and shot their arrows like a cloud ; and it was observed 
that their wounded men, who were not quite disabled, 
were made outrageous by their wounds, and fought like 
madmen. 

When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and 
the Englishman that was killed behind them ; and the 
savages, when they came up to them, killed them over 
again in a wretched manner, breaking their arms, legs, 
and heads with their clubs and wooden swords, like 
true savages. But finding our men were gone, they 
did not seem to pursue them, but drew themselves up 
in a kind of a ring, which is, it seems, their custom, 
and shouted twice in token of their victory ; after 
which, they had the mortification to see several of 
their wounded men fall, dying with the mere loss of 
blood. 

The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body 
up together upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he 
was wounded, would have had him marched and charged 
them again altogether at once. But the Spaniard 
replied, " Seignior Atkins, you see how their wounded 
men fight ; let them alone till morning ; all these 
wounded men will be stiff and sore with their wounds. 



96 ADVENTURES OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

and fiunt with the loss of blood, and so we shall have 
the fewer to engage." 

The advice was good; but Will Atkins replied 
merrily, ** That's true, Seignior, and so shall I too ; and 
that's the reason I would go on while I am warm." 
^<Well, Seignior Atkins," says the Spaniard, **yoa 
have behaved gallantly, and done your part ; we will 
fight for you if you cannot come on, but I think it 
best to stay till morning." So they waited. 

But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found 
the savages in great disorder about their dead and 
wounded men, and a great hurry and noise among 
them where they lay, they afterwards resolved to M 
upon them in the night, especially if they could come 
to give them but one volley before they were discovered, 
which they had a fair opportunity to do ; for one of 
the two Englishmen, in whose quarter it was where 
the fight began, led them round between the woods 
and seaside westward, and then turning short south 
they came so near where the thickest of them lay, 
that before they were seen or heard eight of them 
fired in among them, and did dreadfiil execution upon 
them. In half a minute more eight others fired after 
them, pouring in their small shot in such a quantity, 
that abundance were killed and wounded ; and all this 
while they were not able to see who hurt them, or 
which way to fly. 

The Spaniards charged again with the utmost 
expedition, and then divided themselves into three 
bodies, and resolved to fall in among them altogether. 
They had in each body eight persons ; that is to say, 
twenty-four, whereof were twenty-two men and the 
two women, who, by the way, fought desperately. 

They divided the firearms equally in each party, 
and so of the halberds and staves. They would have 
had the women keep back, but they said they were 



IveOTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



97 



o liie with their husbands. HaviDg thus 
formed their little array, they marched out from among 
trees, and came up to the teeth of the enemy, 
shouting and hallooing as loud as they could. The 
savages stood all together, but were in the utmost eon- 
hearing the noise of our men shouting from three 
quarters together ; they would have fought if they had 
seen us ; and as soon as we came near enough to be 
seen, some arrows were shot, and poor old Friday was 
wounded, though not dangerously. But our men gave 
them no time, but running up to them fired among 
them three waya, and then feU ia with the butt ecda 
of their muskets, their swords, armed stares, and 
hatchets ; and laid about them so well, that, in a word, 
they set up a dismal screaming and howling, flying to 
save their lives which way soever they could. 

Our men were tired with the execution j and killed, 

^or mortally wounded, in the two lights, about one 
hundred and eighty of them. The rest, being frighted 
out of their wits, scoured through the woods and over 
the hills, with all the speed and fear that nimble feet 
could help them to do ; and as we did not trouble 
ourselves much to pursue them, they got all together to 
the seaside, where they landed, and where their canoes 
lay. But their disaster was not at an end yet, for it 
blew a terrible storm of wind that evening from the 
seaward, so that it was impossible for them to go oif ; 
nay, the storm continuing all night, when the tide 
caine up their canoes were moat of them driven by the 
surge of the sea so high upon the shore, that it required 
infitiite toil to get them otF; and some of them were 
even dashed to pieces against the beach, or against one 
. another. 

Our men, though glad of their victory, yet got little 
teat that night ; but having refreshed themselves as well 
aa they could, they resolved to march to that part of 



98 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

the island where the savages were fled, and see what 
posture they were in. This necessarily led them over 
the place where the fight had been, and where they 
found several of the poor creatures not quite dead, and 
yet past recovering life ; a sight disagreeable enough to 
generous minds ; for a truly great man, though obliged 
by the law of battle to destroy his enemy, takes no 
delight in his misery. However, there was no need 
to give any orders in this case ; for their own savages, 
who we're their servants, despatched those poor creatures 
with their hatchets. 

At length they came in view of the place where the 
more miserable remains of the savages' army lay, where 
there appeared about a hundred still ; their posture was 
generally sitting upon the ground, with their knees up 
towards their mouth, and the head put between the two 
hands, leaning down upon the knees. 

When our men came within two musket-shot of them, 
the Spaniard governor ordered two muskets to be fired 
without ball, to alarm them ; this he did, that by their 
countenance he might know what to expect, viz., 
whether they were still in heart to fight, or were so 
heartily beaten, as to be dispirited and discouraged, and 
so he might manage accordingly. 

This stratagem took; for as soon as the savages 
heard the first gun, and saw the flash of the second, 
they started up from their feet in the greatest con- 
sternation imaginable ; and as our men advanced swiftly 
towards them, they all ran screaming and yawling away, 
with a kind of a howling noise, which our men did not 
understand, and had never heard before ; and thus they 
ran up the hills into the country. 

At first, our men had much rather the weather had 
been calm, and they had all gone away to sea ; but they 
did not then consider that this might probably have 
been the occasion of their coming again in such 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 99 

multitudes aa not to be resisted ; or, at leaat, to c 
so many, and so often, as would quite desolate the islaod 
and starve them. Will Atkins, therefore, who, not- 
wthstanding his wound, kept always with them, proved 
the hest coansellor in this case. His advice was, to 
take the advantage that offered, and clap in between 
them and their boats, and so deprive them of the 
capacity of ever returning any more to plague the 

They consulted long about this, and some 1 
against it, for fear of making the wretches lly to 
woods, and live there desperate ; and so they should 
have them to hunt like wild beasts, be afraid to stir 
out about their business, and have their plantations con- 
tinually riiled, all their tame goats destroyed, and, in 
short, be reduced to a life of continual distress. 

Will Atkins told them they had better have to do 
with a hundred men, than with a hundred nations ; 
that 33 they must destroy their boats, ao they must 
destroy the men, or he all of them destroyed them- 
selves. In a word, he showed them the necessity of 
it so plainly, that they all came into it ; so they went 
to work immediately with the boats, and getting some 
dry wood together from a dead tree, they tried to set 
some of them on fire ; but they were so wet that they 
would not burn. However, the fire so burned the 
upper part, that it soon made them unlit for swimming 
in the sea as boats. When the Indians saw what they 
were about, some of tlicm came running out of the 
woods, and coming as near as they could to our men, 
kneeled down and cried, Oa., Oa, tVaramoha, and some 
other words of their language, which none of the others 
onderstood anything of; but as they made pitiful 
geamrea and strange noises, it was easy to understand 
they begged to have their boats spared, and that they 
would be gone, and never come there again. 



w 



But our men were now satisfied that they hid no 
way to preserve themselves or to save their colony, 
but effectually to prevent any of these people from ever 
going home again ; depending upon this, diat if ever bo 
much as one of them got back into their country to tell 
the story, the colony was undone. So that letting them 
know that they should not have any mercy, they fell 
to work with their canoes, and destroyed ihem, every 
one that the storm had not destroyed before ; at the 
sight of which the savages raised a hideous cry in the 
woods, which our people heard plain enough t after 
which they ran about the island Uke distracted iumi; 
so that, in a word, our men did not really know at fira 
what to do with them. 

Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, con- 
sider that while they made those people thus desperate, 
they ought to have kept good guard at the same time 
upon their plantations ; for though it is true they had 
driven away their cattle, and the Indians did not find 
out their main retreat, I mean my old castle at the hill, 
nor the cave in the valley, yet they found out my 
plantation at the bower, and pulled it a!l to pieces, and 
all the fences and planting about it ; trod all the com 
under foot ; tore up the vines and grapes, being just 
then almost ripe, and did to our men an inestiinable 
damage, though to themaclves not one farthing worth 
of service. 

Though our men were able to fight them npon ail 
occasions, yet they were in no condition to pursue 
them, or hunt them up or down i for as they were 
too nimble of foot for our men when they found them 
single, so our men durst not go about single for fear of 
being surrounded with their numbers. The best was, 
they had no weapons ; for though they had bows, 
they hnd no arrows left, nor any materials to make any, 
nnr I — ' —V edged tool or weapon among them. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

The extremity and distress tliey were reduc 
was great, and indeed deplorable, but at the aarai 
oar men were also brought to very b 
by them j for though their retreats were preserved, yet 
their provision was destroyed, and their harvest spoiled ; 
and what to do, or which way to turn themselves,, they 
knew not. The only refuge they had now was the stock 
of cattle they had in the valley by the cave, and some 
little corn which grew there ; and the plantation of the 
three Englishmen, William Atkins and his comrades, 
who were now reduced to two, one of them being 
killed by an arrow, which struck him on the side of 
his head, just under the temple, so that he never spoke 
more ; and it was very remarkable, that this was the 
same barbarous fellow who cut the poor savage slave 
with his hatchet, and who afterwards intended to have 
ninrdered all the Spaniards. 

I looked upon this case to have been worse at this 
time than mine was at any time after I first discovered 
the grains of barley and rice, and got into the manner of 
planting and raising my corn, and my tame cattle ; for 
DOW they had, as I may say, a hundred wolves upon 
the island, which would devour everything they could 
come at, yet could very hardJy be come at themselves. 

The first thing they concluded when they saw what 
their circumstances were, was that they would, if 
possible, drive them up to the farther part of the island, 
south-west, that if any more savages came on shore, 
they might not find one another ; then that they would 
daily hunt and harass them, and kill as many of [hem as 
ihey could come at, till they had reduced their number ; 
and if they could at last tarae them, and bring them to 
anything, they would give them corn, and teach them 
how to plant, and live upon their daily labour. 

In order to this they so followed them, and so 
terrified them with their guns, tiiat in a few days, if 



1 



il ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

anyoftheni fired a gun at an ladian, if he did not hit 
him, yet he would fall down for fear ; and so dread- 
fully frighted they were, that they kept out of aight 
farther and farther, ull at last our men following them, 
and every day almost killing and wounding some of them, 
they kept up in the woods and hollow places so much, 
that it reduced them to the utmost misery for want of 
food ; and many were afterwards found dead in the 
wooda, without any hurt, but merely starved to death. 

When our men found this, it made their hearts re- 
lent, and pity moved them ; especially the Spaniard 
governor, who was the most gentlemanly, generous- 
minded man that ever I met with in ray life ; and he 
proposed, if possible, to take one of them alive, and 
bring him to understand what they meant, so far as to 
be able to act as interpreter, and to go among them, 
and see if they might be brought to some condidona 
that might be depended upon, to save their lives, and 
to do us no spoil. 

It was some while before any of them could be 
taken ; but being weak and half-starved, one of them 
was at last surprised, and made a prisoner. He was 
sullen at drEt, and would neither eat or drink ; but. 
finding himself kindly used, and victuals given him, 
and no violence offered him, he at last grew tractable, 
and came to himself. 

They brought old Friday to him, who talked often 
with him, and told hiro how kind the others would be 
to them all ; that they would not only save their lives, 
but would give thera a part of the island to live in, 
provided they would give satisfaction that they would 
keep in their own bounds, and not come beyond it, 
to injure or prejudice others ; and that they should 
iiave corn given them to plant and make it grow for 
their breai and some la-ead given them for their 
present subsistence ; and old Friday bade the fellow go 




AUVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOK, I03 

and calk with th<? rest al his countrymen, and sec what 
they said to it, assuring them that if they did not agree 
immediately they ahodd be all destroyed. 

The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and re- 
duced in number to about thirty'seren, closed with the 
proposal 3t the first offei', and begged to hare some 
food given them ; upon which twelve Spaniards and 
two Englishmen, well armed, widi three Indian slaves, 
and old Friday, marched to the place where they were. 
The three Indian slaves carried them a large quantity of 
bread, some rice boiled up to cakes, and dried in tiie 
sun, and three live goats ; and they were ordered to go 
10 the side of a hill, where they sat down, ate the 
provisions very thankfully, and were the most faithful 
fellows to their words that could be thought of ; for 
except when they came to beg victuals and directions, 
they never came out of their bounds ; and there they 
lived when I came to the island, and I went to see 

They had taught them both to plant corn, make 
bread, breed tame goats, and milk them ; they wanted 
nothing but wives, and they soon would have been 
a oation. They were confined to a neck of land 
iiUTOunded with high rocks behind them, and lying 
plain towards the sea before them, on the south-east 
comer of the island. They had land enough, and it 
Was very good and fruitful ; they bad a piece of land 
about 3 mile and half broad, and three or four miles in 
length. 

Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such 
as I made for myself ; and gave them among them 
twelve hatchets, and three or four knives ; and there 
they lived, the most subjected innocent creatures that 
ever were heard of, 

After this the colony enjoyed a. perfect tranquillity 
with respect to the savages till I came to revisit them, 



I04 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

which was above two years ; not but that dow 
then some cinofB of savages came on shore for thetr 
raphal unnatiu-al feaets ; but as they were of several 
catioDS, aod, perhaps, had never heard of those that 
came before, or the reason of it, they did not make : 
search or inquiry after thdr countrymen ; and if they 
had, it would have been very hard to have found them 

Thus, I think, I have given a full account of all 
that ha]>pened to them to my return, at least that was 
worth notice. The Indians, or savages, were wonder- 
fully civilised by them, and they frequently went 
among them ; but forbid, on pain of death, any of 
the Indians coming to them, because they would not 
have their setdement betrayed again. 

One thing was very remarkable, viz., that they 
taught the savages to make wicker-work, or baskets, 
but they soon outdid their masters ; for they made 
abundance of most ingenious things in wicker-work ; 
particularly all sorts of baskets, sieves, bird-cages, cup- 
boards, Sec, as also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, 
couches, and abundance of other things, being very 
ingenious at such work when they were once put in the 






My coming was a particular relief to these people, 
because we furnished them with knives, scissors, spades, 
shovels, pickaxes, and all things of that kind which 
they could want. 

With the help of these tools they were so Tcry 
handy, that they came at last to build up their huta, or 
houses, very handsomely ; raddling, or working it up 
like basket-work all the way round, which was a very 
extraordinary piece of ingenuity, and looked very odd ; 
but was an exceeding good fence, as well against heat as 
against all sorts of vermin ; and our men were so taken 
with it, diat tliey got die wild savages to come and 



ADVENTURES OF ROKINSON CRTJSOt; I05 

do the like for them ; so that when I came to see the 
two EnglishmeD'a colonies, they looked, at a distance, 
as if they lived aU like heea in a hive. And as for Will 
Atkins, who was now become a very industrious, 
necessary, and sober fellow, he had made himself such 
a tent of baaket-work as I believe was never seen. It 
was one hundred and twenty paces round in the ouUide, 
as I measured by my steps ; the walls were as close 
worked as a basket, in panels or squares of thirty-two in 
number, and very strong, standing about seven feet high. 
In the middle was another, not above twenty-two paces 
round, but built stronger, being eight-square in its form, 
and in the eight corners stood eight very strong posts, 
round the top of which he laid strong pieces, pinned 
together with wooden pins, from which he raised a 
pyramid for the roof of eight rafters, very handsome I 
assure you, and joined together very well, though he 
had no nails, and only a few iron spikes, which he made 
himself too out of the old iron that I had left there ; 
and indeed this fellow showed abundance of ingenuity 
in several things which he had no knowledge of. He 
made him a forge, with a pair of wooden beilows to 
blow the lire j he made himself charcoal for his work, 
and he formed out of one of the iron crows a middling 
good anvil to hammer upon ; in this manner he made 



1 



especially hooks, staples, and spikes, 



bolts and hinges. But to return to the house ; after 
he had pitched the roof of his innermost tent, he 
worked it up between the rafters with basket-work, bo 
firm, and thatched that over itgain so ingeniously with 
lice-straw, and OTer that a large leaf of a tree, which 
covered the top, that hts house was as dry as if it had 
been tiled or slated. Indeed, he owned that the savages 
miwie the basket-work for him. 

The outer circuit was covered, as a lean-to, all 
lOUPd this inner apartment, and long rafters lay from 



lo6 ADVENTURBS OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

the two and thirty angles to the top of the posts of the 
inner house, being about twenty feet distance ; so that 
there was a space like a walk within the outer wicker 
wall, and without the inner, near twenty feet wide. 

The inner place he partitioned off with the same 
wicker-work, but much fairer, and divided it into six 
apartments, so that he had six rooms on a floor, and 
out of every one of these there was a door : first, into 
the entry, or coming into the main tent ; and another 
door into the space or walk that was round it ; so that 
walk was also divided into six equal parts, which served 
not only for retreat, but to store up any necessaries 
which the family had occasion for. These six spaces 
not taking up the whole circumference, what other 
apartments the outer circle had, were thus ordered : as 
soon as you were in at the door of the outer circle, 
you had a short passage straight before you to the door 
of the inner house; but on either side was a wicker 
partition, and a door in it, by which you went first into 
a large room or store-house, twenty feet wide, and- 
about thirty feet long, and through that into another 
not quite so long ; so that in the outer circle was tei^ 
handsome rooms, six of which were only to be com^ 
at through the apartments of the inner tent, and servecS 
as closets or retiring rooms to the respective chamber.^ 
of the inner circle ; and four large warehouses or barns ^ 
or what you please to call them, which went in throughv 
one another, two on either hand of the passage, that lecf 
through the outer door to the inner tent. 

Such a piece of basket-work, I believe, was never 
seen in the world ; nor a house or tent so neatly con- 
trived, much less so built. In this great beehive lived 
the three families ; that is to say, Will Atkins and his 
companion ; the third was killed, but his wife remained 
with three children; for she was, it seems, big with 
child when he died, and the other two were not at all 



mVLNTURES OF ROBINSON 



Backward to give the widow her fiill share of every- 
jthing, I mead as to their corn, milk, grapes, Sec, and 
^when they killed a kid, or found a turtle on the ahorc ; 
^so that they all lived well enough, though it was true 
they were not so industrious as the other two, as has 
■' been observed already. 

Oae thing, however, cannot be omitted, viz., that 
is for religion, I don't know that there was anything 
of that kind among theni. They pretty often indeed put 
one another in mind that there was a God by the very 
common method of seamen, viz., swearing by Mis 
name ; nor were their poor, ignorant, savage wives 
much the better for having been married to Christians, 
as we must call them ; for ae they knew very little of 
God themselves, so they were utterly incapable of 
entering into any discourse with their wives about a 
God, or to talk anything to them concerning religion. 

The utmost of all the improvement which I can aay 
the wives had made from them was, that they had 
taught them to speak English pretty well ; and all the 
children they had, which were near twenty in all, were 
taught to speak English too, from their first learning 
to Kpeak, though they at first spoke it in a very broken 
manner, like their mothers. There were none of these 
children above six years old when I came thither j for 
h was not much above seven years that they had 
Fetched these five savage ladies over, but they had all 
been pretty fruitful, for they had all children, more or 
less. I think the cook's mate's wife was big of her 
MXtb child ; and the mothers were all a good sort of 
well- governed, quiet, laborious women, modest and 
decent, helpful to one another, mighty observant and 
mbject to their masters, I cannot call them husbands ; 
and wanted nothing but to be well instructed in the 
Chrisuan religion, and to be legally married ; both 
Which were happily brought about afterwards by my 



loS ADVENTURES OF ROBENSON CRUSOE. 

means, or at least in coosi^queoce of my comiog among 

Having tliue given an account of the colony in 
general, and pretty much of my fiTe runagate English- 
men, I must say something of the Spaniards, who were 
the main body of the family, and id whose story there 
are some incidents also remarkable enough. 

I had a great many discourses with them abont thor 
eircumetances when ihey were among the Bavages. 
They told me readily, that they had no instances to give 
of their application or ingenuity in that country ; that 
ihey were a poor, miserable, dejected handful of 
people ; that if means had been put into their hands, 
they had yet so abandoned themselves to despair, and 
so sunk under the weight of their misfortunes, that they 
thought of nothing but starving. One of them, a grave 
and very sensible man, told me he was convinced they 
were in the wrong ; that it was not the part of wise 
men to give up themselves to their misery, but always 
[0 take hold of the helps which reason o^ered, as well 
for present support, as for future deliverance. He told 
me that grief was the most senseless insignificant 
passion in the world ; tor that it regarded only things 
past, which was generally impossible to be recalled or to 
be remedied, but had no views to things to come, and 
had no share in anything that looked like deliverance, 
but rather added to the affliction than proposed a remedy ; 
;md upon this he repeated a Spanish proverb, which 
though I cannot repeat in just the same words that he 
spoke in, yet I remember I made it into an En " 
proverb of my own, thus : 



He ran on then i" r^nurks upon all the little 
provement' ' ' iolitude ; ray unwearied 



■adventures of roeinson CRUSOE. 109 

B^piication, as he called it, and how I had made a 
I condition, which in its circumstances was at first much 
j worse than theirs, a thousand times more happy than 
I theirs waa even now, when they were all together. 
] He told me it was remarkable that Englishmen had 
1 greater presence of mind in their distress than any 
I people that ever he met with ; that their unhappy 
I, and the Portuguese, were the worst men in the 
world to struggle with misfortunes i for their first step 
in dangers, after the common efforts are over, was 
always to despair, lie down under it and die, without 
rousing their thoughts up to proper remedies for escape. 
I told him their case and mine differed exceedingly j 
that they were cast upon the shore without necessaries, 
without supply of food, or of present sustenance, till 
they could provide j that it ia true I had this disadvan- 
tage and discomfort, that I was alone ; but then the 
supplies I had providentially thrown into my hands by 
the unexpected driving of the ship on shore, was such 
a help, as would have encouraged any creature in the 
world to have applied himself as I had done. 
"Seignior," says the Spaniard, "had we poor 
Spaniards been in your case, we should never have 
gotten half those things out of the ship as you did ; 
nay," aaya he, *' we should never have found means 
to have gotten a raft to carry them, or to have gotten 
the raft on shore without boat or sail ; and how much 
less should we have done," said be, "if any of us had 
been alone ? " Weil, I desired him to abate his 
compliment, and go on with the history of their coming 
on shore, where they landed. He told me they 
unhappily landed at a place where there were people 
without provisions ; whereas, had they had the common 
aeaee to have put off to sea again, and gone to another 
ialanda little farther, they had found provisions, though 
without people ; there being an island that way, as 



1 



no ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

they had been told, where there was provisionsy though 
no people; that is to say, that the Spaniards of 
Trinidad had frequently been there, and had filled the 
island with goats and hogs at several times, where they 
had bred in such multitudes, and where turtle and sea- 
fowls were in such plenty, that they could have been 
in no want of flesh though they had found no bread ; 
whereas here they were only sustained with a few roots 
and herbs which they understood not, and which had 
no substance in them, and which the inhabitants gave 
them sparingly enough, and who could treat them no 
better unless they would turn cannibals, and eat men's 
flesh, which was the great dainty of their country. 

They gave me an account how many ways they 
strove to civilise the savages they were with, and to 
teach them rational customs in the ordinary way of 
living, but in vain; and how they retorted it upon 
them as unjust, that they, who came there for assist- 
ance and support, should attempt to set up for in- 
structors of those that gave them bread ; intimating, 
it seems, that none should set up for the instructors of 
others but those who could live without them. 

They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities 
they were driven to ; how sometimes they were many 
ways without any food at all, the island they were 
upon being inhabited by a sort of savages that lived 
more indolent, and for that reason were less supplied 
with the necessaries of life than they had reason to 
believe others were in the same part of the world ; 
and yet they found that these savages were less 
ravenous and voracious than those who had better 
supplies of food. 

Also they added, that they could not but see with 
what demonstrations of wisdom and goodness the 
governing providence of God directs the events of 
things in the world, which they said appeared in their 



ADVENTURES OF 

for if, pressed by the hardships they 
were undw, and the barrenness of the country where 
they were, they had searched after a better place to 
live in, they had then been out of the way of the 
relief that happened to them by my means. 

Then they gave me an account how the savages 
whom they lived among expected them to go out with 
them into their wars ; and it was true, that as they 
had firearms with them, had they not had the diaaater 
to lose their ammunitioD, they should not have been 
serviceahle only to their friends, hut have made them- 
selves terrible both to friends and enemies ; but being 
without powder and shot, and yet in a condition that 
they could not in reason deny to go out with their 
landlords to their wars, when they came into the 
field of battle they were in a worse condition than the 
aa.Tagea themselves, for they neither had bows or arrows, 
nor could they use those the savages gave them, so 
that they could do nothing but stand still and be 
wounded with arrows, till they came up to the teeth 
of their enemy ; and then indeed the three halberds 
ihcy had were of use to thera, and they would often 
drive a whole little army before them with those 
halberds and sharpened sticks put into the muzzles of 
their muskets ; but that for all this, they were some- 
times surrounded with multitudes, and in great danger 
horn their arrows ; dll at last they found the way to 
make themselves large targets of wood, which they 
covered with skins of wild beasts, whose names they 
knew not, and these covered them from the airowa of 
the savages ) that notwithstanding these, they were 
sometimes in great danger, and were once five of 
them knocked down together with the clubs of the 
«a*ages, which was the time when one of them was 
taken prisoner, that ia to say, the Spaniard whom I 
bad relieved, that at first they thought had been 



^ 



112 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

killed ; but when afterwards they heard he was taken 
prisoner, they were under the greatest grief imagin- 
able, and would willingly have ventured their lives to 
have rescued him. 

They told me, that when they were so knocked 
down, the rest of their company rescued them, and 
stood over them, fighting till tjiey were come to them- 
selves, all but him who they thought had been dead ; 
and then they made their way with their halberds and 
pieces, standing close together in a line, through a 
body of above a thousand savages, beating down all 
that came in their way, got the victory over their 
enemies, but to their great sorrow, because it was with 
the loss of their friend ; whom the other party, finding 
him alive, carried off with some others, as I gave an 
account in my former. 

They described, most affectionately, how they were 
surprised with joy at the return of their friend and 
companion in misery, who they thought had been 
devoured by wild beasts of the worst kind, viz., by 
wild men ; and yet how more and more they were 
surprised with the account he gave them of his errand, 
and that there was a Christian in any place near, 
much more one that was able, and had humanity 
enough, to contribute to their deliverance. 

They described how they were astonished at the 
sight of the relief I sent them, and at the appearance of 
loaves of bread, things they had not seen since their 
coming to that miserable place ; how often they crossed it, 
and blessed it, as bread sent from heaven ; and what a 
reviving cordial it was to their spirits to taste it, as also 
of the other things I had sent for their supply. And 
after all, they would have told me something of the joy 
they were in at the sight of a boat and pilots to carry 
them away to the person and place from whence all 
these new comforts came; but they told me it was 



ADVENTURES OF RORINSON CRUSOE. KJ 

imposflible to express it by words, for their excessive 
joy naturally driving them to unbecoming extravagances, 
they had no way to describe them but by telUng roe 
that they bordered upon lunacy, having no way to give 
vent to their pasaion suitable to the sense that was upon 
them ; that in some it worked one way, and in some 
another ; and that some of them, through a surprise of 
joy, would burst out into tears ; others be stark mad, and 
otfaerB immediately faint. This discourse extremely 
affected me, and called to my mind Friday's testacy 
when he met his father, and the poor peojik's ecstacy 
when I took them up at sea, after their ship was on fire ; 
the mate of the ship's joy, when he found himself de- 
livered in the place where he expected to perish ; nnd 
my own joy, when after twenty-eight years' captivity I 
found a good ship ready to carry me to my own country. 
All these things made me more sensible of the relation 
of those poor men, and more affected with it. 

Haviog thus given a view of the state of ihiaga as I 
found them, I must relate the heads of what I did for 
these peopk', and the condition in which I left them. 
It was their opinion, and mine too, that they would be 
troubled no more with the savages ; or that, if they 
were, they would be able to cut them off, if they were 
twice aa many as before ; so they had no concern 
about that. Then I entered into a serious discourse 
with the Spaniard, whom I called gorernor, about their 
Stay in the island ; for as I was not come to carry any of 
them off, so it would not be just to carry off" some and 
leave others, who perhaps would be unwilling to stay if 
thdr strength was diminished. 

On the other hand, I told them I came to establish 
them there, not to remove them ; and then I let them 
know that I had brought with me relief of sundry kinds 
for them ; that I had been at a great charge to supply 
limn with all things necessary, as well for their con- 
It. H 



; iis their defence ; and that I had such and auch 
paniculac persons with me, at well to increase and re- 
cruit their number, ai by the particular neceasary employ- 
ments which they were bred to, being artificers, to aadit 
them in those things in which at present they were to seek. 

They were all together when I talked thus to tbemi 
and before I delivered to them the stores I had brought, 
I asked them, one by one, if they had endrely forg« 
and buried the first animosities that had been among them, 
and would shake hands with one another, and engagf 
in a strict friendship and union of interest, that so ' 
might be no more misunderstandings or jealousies. 

Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and g 

humour, said they had met with afiiiciiona enough to 
make them all sober, and enemies enough to make them 
all friends ; tiiat for hie part, he would hve and die with 
them ; and was so far from designing anything against 
the Spaniards, that he owned they had done nothing to 
him but what his own mad humours made necessary, 
and what he would have done, and perhaps much wor§e, 
in their case ; and that he would ask them pardon, if I 
desired it, for the foolish and brutish things he had done 
to them i and was very willing and desirous of living ' 
teiTOS of entire friendship and union with them, ai 
would do anything that lay in his power to convince 
them of it ; and as for going to England, he cared not 
if he did not go thither these twenty years. 

The Spaniiirds said they had indeed at first disarmed 
and excluded Will Atkins and his two countrymen, 
for their ill conduct, as they had let me know ; and they 
appealed to me for the necessity they were under to 
do so ; but thai Will Atkins had behaved himself so 
bravely in the great fight they had with the savages, 
and on several occasions since, and had shown himself 
so faithful to, and concerned for, the general interest of 
them all, that they had forgotten ali that was past, and 



IDVENTURES OF ROBTNHON CRUSOE, I15 

_ It he merited as much to be trusted with arms, and 
be supplied with necessaries, as any of them ; s.ad that 
they had tesdGed their aatisfactioo in him by committing 
die conunatid to him, next to the governor himself; 
Hid as they had an entire confidence in him snd all hig 
countrymen, ao they acknowledged they had merited 
ihat confidence by all the methods that honest men 
Cou]d merit to be valued and trusted ; and they most 
heartily embraced the occasion of giving me this assur- 
«nce, that they would never have any interest separate 
horn one another. 

Upon these frank and open dcclarHtions of friendship, 
we appointed the next day to dine all together, and 
indeed we made a splendid feast. I caused the ship's 
cook and his mate to corae on shore and dress our 
jlnaer, and the old cook's mate we had oa shore 
usisted. We brought on shore six pieces of good 
Xef, and four pieces of pork, out of the ship's pro- 
rison, with our punch-bowl, and materials to GU it ; 
ind in particular, gave them ten bottles of French 
[Jaret, and ten bottles of English beer, things that 
Bather the Spaniards or the Englishmen had tasted for 
many years, and which it may be supposed they were 
■xceeding glad of. 

The Spaniards added to our feast five whole kids, 
which the cooks roasted ; and three of them were 
jent, covered up close, on board the ship to the sea- 
men, that they might feast on fresh meat from on 
ihore, as we did with their salt meat from on board. 

After this feast, at which we were very innocently 
merry, I brought out my cargo of goods, wherein, that 
ihere might be no dispute about dividing, I showed 
ihem that there was sufficient for them all ; and desired 
that they might all take an equal quantity of the goods 
bat were for wearing; that ia to say, equal when 
nade up. As first, I distributed linen suliicieDt to 



t 



I 16 ADVENTURES OF HOniNSON CRUSOE. 

make every one of them four ehirte ; and, ai 
Spaniards' request, afterwards made them up 
these were exceeding comfortable to them, having been 1 
what, as I may say, they had long since forgot the u 
of, or what it was to wear them. 

I allotted the thin English stuffs, which I mcntiouEd 
before, 10 make every one a light coat like a frock, 
which I judged fittest for the heat of the season, cool 
and loose ; and ordered that whenever they decayed 
they should make more, aa they thought fit. The like 
for pumpG, shoeB, stockings, and hats. Sec. 

I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction, 
sat upon the countenances of all these poor men when 
they saw the care I had taken of them, and how well 
I bad fornished them. They told me I was a father ti 
them ; and that having such a correspondert as I was 
in so remote a part of the world, it would i lake them 
forget that they were left in a desolate place ; and they 
all voluntarily engaged to me not to leave the place 
without my consenL 

Then I presented to them the people I had brought 
with me, particularly the tailor, the smith, and the two 
carpenters, all of them moat necessary people ; bat 
above all my general ardficer, than whom they could 
not name anything that was more useful to them ; 
the tailor, to show his concern for them, went to v 
immediately, and, with my leave, made ibem every 
one a shirt the first thing he did; and which was 
more, he taught the women not only how to sew and 
BHtch, and use the needle, but made them assist to 
make the shirts for their husbands and for all the real. 

As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how 
useful they were, for they took in pieces all my clumsy 
unhandy things, and made them clever convenienc 
tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers, shelves, 
ind everything they wanted of that kind. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. I17 

But to let them see how Nature made artificers at 
first, I carried the carpenters to see Will Atkins's 
basket-house, as I called it, and they both owned they 
never saw an instance of such natural ingenuity before, 
nor anything so regular and so handily built, at least of 
its kind; and one of them, when he saw it, after 
musing a good while, turning about to me, " I am 
sure," says he, " that man has no need of us ; you need 
do nothing but give him tools." 

Theo I brought them out all my store of tools, and 
gave every man a digging spade, a shovel, and a rake, 
for we had no barrows or ploughs ; and to every 
separate place a pickaxe, crow, a broad axe, and a 
saw i always appointing, that as often as any were 
broken, or worn-out, they should be supplied, without 
grudging, out of the general stores that I left behind. 

Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chisels, knives, 
scissors, and all sorts of tools and iron-work, they had 
without tale as they required ; for no man would care 
lo take more than they wanted, and he must be a fool 
that would waste or spoil them on any account what- 
ever; and for the use of the smith I left two tons of 
unwrought iron for a supply. 

My magazine of powder and arms which I brought 
them was such, even to piofusioo, that they could not 
but rejoice at them ; for now they could march, as 
I used to do, with a musket upon each shoulder, if 
there was occasion ; and were able to light a thousand 
savages, if they hnd but some little advantages of 
situauon, which also they could not miss of if they had 



1 



I carried on shore with me the young man whose 
mother was starved to death, and the maid also; she 
was a. sober, well-educated, religious young woman, 
and behaved so inofTensively, that every one gave her 
a good word. She had, indeed, an unhappy life with 



Tl8 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

US, there being no woman in the ship but herself; but 
she bore it with patience. After a while, seeing things 
so well ordered, and in so fine a way of thriving apon 
my island, and considering that they had neither business 
or acquaintance in the East Indies, or reason for taking 
so long a voyage ; I say, considering all this, both of 
them came to me, and desired I would give them leave 
to remain on the island, and be entered among my 
family, as they called it. 

I agreed to it readily, and they had a little plat of 
ground allotted to them, where they had three tents or 
houses set up, surrounded with a basket- work^palisadoed 
like Atkins's, adjoining to his plantation. Their tents 
were contrived so, that they had each of them a room 
apart to lodge in, and a middle tent, like a great store- 
house, to lay all their goods in, and to eat and drink 
in. And now the other two Englishmen removed their 
habitation to the same place, and so the island was 
divided into three colonies, and no more, viz., the 
Spaniards, with old Friday and the first servants, at 
my old habitation under the hill, which was, in a word, 
the capital city, and where they had so enlarged and 
extended their works, as well under as on the outside 
of the hill, that they lived, though perfectly concealed, 
yet full at large. Never was there such a little city in 
a wood, and so hid, I believe, in any part of the world ; 
for I verily believe a thousand men might have ranged 
the island a month, and if they had not known there 
was such a thing, and looked on purpose for it, they 
would not have found it ; for the trees stood so thick 
and so close, and grew so fast matted into one another, 
that nothing but cutting them down first could discover 
the place, except the only two narrow entrances where 
they went in and out could be found, which was not 
very easy. One of them was just down at the water 
edge of the creek, and it was afterwards above two 



ADVENTURES OV ROBINSON 

hundred yards to the place ; and the other was up the 
[adder at twice, as I have already formerly described 
it ; and they had a large wood, thick planted, also on 
the top of the hill, which contained above an acre, 
which grew apace, aod covered the place from all 
discovery there, with only one narrow place between 
two trees, not easy to be discovered, to enter on that 

The Other colony was that of Will Atkins, where 
there were four families of Englishmen, I meao those I 
had left there, with their wives and children ; three 
savages that were slaves ; the widow and children of 
the Englishman that was killed ; the young man and 
the maid ; and by the way, wc made a wife of her 
also before we went away. There were also the two 
carpenters and the tailor, whom I brought with me for 
them ; also the smith, who was a very necessary man 
to them, especially as a gunsmith, to take care of their 
arms ; and my other man, whom I called Jack-of-all- 
trades, who was in himself aa good almost as twenty 
meDi for be was not only a very ingenious fellow, but 
3 very merry fellow ; and before I went away we 
married him to the honest maid that came with the 
youth in the ship I mentioned before. 

And now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally 
10 say something of the French ecclesiastic that I had 
brought with me out of the ship's crew whom I took 
op at sea. It is true this man was a Roman, and 
perhaps it may give oifence to some hereafter if I 
leave anything extraordinary upon record of a man 
whom, before I begin, I must, to set him out in just 
colours, represent in terms very much to his disadvan- 
tage in the account of Protestants ; as, first, that he 
was a Papist ; secondly, a Popish priest ; and thirdly, 
a French Popish priest. 

But juKtice demandH of me to give him a due 



1 



I20 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

character ; and I must say, he was a grave, sober, pious, 
and most religious person ; exact in his life, extensive 
in his charity, and exemplary in almost everything he 
did. What, then, can any one say against my being 
very sensible of the value of such a man, notwith- 
standing his profession ? though it may be my opinioQi 
perhaps, as well as the opinion of others who shall read 
this, that he was mistaken. 

The first hour that I began to converse with him, 
after he had agreed to go with me to the East Indies, 
I found reason to delight exceedingly in his conversa- 
tion ; and he first began with me about religion, in the 
most obliging manner imaginable. 

" Sir," says he, "you have not only, under God" 
(and at that he crossed his breast), " saved my life, but 
you have admitted me to go this voyage in your ship, 
and by your obliging civility have taken me into your 
family, giving me an opportunity of free conversation. 
Now, sir," says he, " you see by my habit what my 
profession is, and I guess by your nation what yours 
is ; I may think it is my duty, and doubtless it is so, 
to use my utmost endeavours on all occasions to bring 
all the souls I can to the knowledge of the truth, and 
to embrace the Catholic doctrine; but as I am here 
under your permission, and in your family, I am bound, 
in justice to your kindness, as well as in decency and 
good manners, to be under your government; and 
therefore I shall not, without your leave, enter into any 
debates on the point of religion, in which we may not 
agree, farther than you shall give me leave." 

I told him his carriage was so modest, that I could 
not but acknowledge it; that it was true we were 
such people as they called heretics, but that he was not 
the nrst Catholic that I had conversed with without 
falling into any inconveniences, or carrying the ques- 
tions to any height in debate ; that he should not find 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

himself the worse used for being of a different opi 
from us ; and if we did not converse without any dislike 
on either side upon that score, it should be his fault. 



He replied that he thought all o 
might be easily separated from disputes ; that it was 
not his business to cap principles with every man he 
discoursed with ; and that he rather desired roe to 
converse with hira as a gentleman, than as a relipcuie ; 
that if I would give him leave at any time to discourse 
upon religious subjects, he would readily comply with 
it ; and that then he did not doubt but I would allow 
him also to defend his own opinions as well as he 
could ; hut that without my leave he would cot break 
in upon me with any such thing. 

He told me farther, that he would not cease to do 
all that became him in his office as a priest, ss well as 
a private Christian, to procure the good of the ship, 
and the safety of all that was in her ; and though, 
perhaps, we would not join with him, and he could 
Dot pray okV/j us, he hoped he might pray for us, 
which he would do upon all occasions. In this 
manner we conversed ; and as he was of a most 
obliging gentleman-like behaviour, so he was, if I 
may be allowed to say so, a man of good sense, and, 
as I believe, of great learning. 

He gave me a most diverting account of his life, 
and of the many extraordinary events of it ; of many 
adventures which had befallen him in the few years 
that he had been abroad in the world, and particularly 
this was very remarkable, viz., that in the voyage 
he was now engaged, he had had the misfortune to 
be five times shipped and unshipped, and never to go 
to the place whither any of the ships he was in were 
at first designed ; that hjs first intent was to have gone 
to Martinico, and that he went on board a ship bound 



132 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

thither at St Malo ; but being forced into Lisbon by 
bad weather, the ship received some damage by running 
aground in the mouth of the river Tagus, and was 
obliged to unload her cargo there ; that finding a Por- 
tuguese ship there bound to the Madeiras, and ready 
to sail, and supposing he should easily meet with a 
vessel there bound to Martinico, he went on board, in 
order to sail to the Madeiras ; but the master of the 
Portuguese ship being but an indifferent mariner, had 
been out in his reckoning, and they drove to Fayal ; 
where, however, he happened to find a very good 
market for his cargo, which was com, and therefore 
resolved not to go to the Madeiras, but to load salt at 
the Isle of May, and go away to Newfoundland. He 
had no remedy in this exigence but to go with the 
ship, and had a pretty good voyage as far as the Banks, 
so they call the place where they catch the fish, where 
meeting with a French ship bound from France to 
Quebec, in the river of Canada, and from thence to 
Martinico, to carry provisions, he thought he should 
have an opportunity to complete his firat design. But 
when he came to Quebec the master of the ship died, 
and the ship proceeded no farther. So the next 
voyage he shipped himself for France, in the ship that 
was burnt, when we took them up at sea, and then 
shipped with us for the East Indies, as I have already 
said. Thus he had been disappointed in five voyages, 
all, as I may call it, in one voyage, besides what I 
shall have occasion to mention farther of the same 
person. 

But I shall not make digressions into other men's 
stories which have no relation to my own. I return 
to what concerns our affair in the island. He came to 
me one morning, for he lodged among us all the while 
we were upon the island, and it happened to be just 
when I was going to visit the Englishmen's colony at 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. rSJ 

the farthest part of the ialand ; I say, lie came to 
and to]d me with a very grave countenance that he 
had for two or three days desired an opportunity of 
some discourse with me, which he hoped would not 
be displeasing to me, because he thouglit it might in 
some measure correspond with my general design, 
which was the prosperity of my new colony, and 
perhaps might put it at least more than he yet thought 
it was in the way of God's blessing. 

I looked a litde surprised at the last part of his 
discourse, and turning a little short, " How, sir," said 
I, "can it be said that wc are not in the way of 
God's blessing, after such visible assistances and won- 
derful deliverances as we have seen here, and of which 
I have given you a large account ? " 

" If you had pleased, sir," said he, with a world of 
modesty, and yet with great readiness, " to have heard 
ine, you would have found no room to have been dis- 
pleased, much less to think so hard of me, that I 
should BuggeBt that you have not had wondprfiil aaaiat- 
ances and deliverances ; and I hope, on your behalf, 
that you are in the way of God's blessing, and your 
design is exceeding good, and will prosper. But, sir, 
though it were more so than is even possible to you, 
yet there may be some among you that are not equally 
right in their actions ; and you know that in the story 
of the children of Israel, one Achan in the camp 
removed God's blessing from them, and turned His 
hand so against them, that six and thirty of them, 
though not concerned in the crime, were the object 
of Divine vengeance, and bore the weight of that 
punishment." 

I was sensibly touched with his discourse, and told 

him his inference was so just, and the whale design 

seemed so sincere, and was really so religious in its 

I own nature, that I was very sorry I had interrupted 



w 

i 
I 



t24 ADVENTUKF.S OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

him, and begged him to go on ; and in t 
because it seemed that what we had both to say roight 
take up some time, I told him I was going to the 
Englishmeo'a plantations, and asked him to go with me, 
and we might discourse of it by the way. He told 
me he would more willingly wait on me thither, 
because there, partly, the thing was acted which he 
desired to speak to me about. So we walked on, and 
I pressed him to be fiee and plain with me in what he 
had to say. 

" Why then, sir," says he, " be pleased to give lot 
leave to lay down a few propositions as the foundadon ai 
what I have to say, that we may not differ in the general 
principles, though we may be of some differing opinioos 
in the practice of particulars. First, sir, chough we 
differ !n some of the doctrinal articles of reli^on, 
and it is very unhappy that it is so, especially in the 
case before us, as I ahail show afterwards ; yet there 
;ire some general principles in which we both agree, 
viz., firut, that there is s God, and that this God 
having given us some stated general rules for our 
service and obedience, we ought not willingly and 
knowingly to offend Him, either by neglecting to do 
what He has commanded, or by doing what He hai 
expressly forbidden ; and let our different religions be 
what they will, this general principle is readily owned 
by us all, that the blessing of God does not ordinarily 
follow a presumptuous sinning against His command ; 
and every good Chrisrian will be affectionately con- 
cerned to prevent any that are under his care, living 
in a total neglect of God and His commands. It is 
not your men being Protestants, whatever my opii ' 
may be of auch, that discharges me from being c 
led for their souls, and from endeavouring, if it 
before me, that they should live in as little dis- 
from and enmity with thor Maker as possible; 




■ ADVENTURES OF RORmt 

^Mpmally if you give me leave to meddie so far in your 

I couJd not yet imagine what he aimed at, and 
told him I granted all he had said, and thanked hini 
that he would so far concern himself for us ; and 
begged he would explain the particulars of what he 
had observed, that like Joshua, to lake his own parable, 
I rai)>hc put away the accursed thing from us. 

" Why then, sir," saya he, " I will take the liberty 
you give me ; and there are three things which, if I 
am right, must stand in the way of God's blessing 
upon your endeavours here, and which I should rejoice, 
for your sake, and their own, to see removed. And, 
ur," says he, "I promise myself that you will fully 
agree with me in them all 

7eci3Uy because I shall 
them may with great 
atisfaction, be remedied.' 
He gave me no leave 
but went on. " First, sii 
four Englishmen, who have fetched women fri 
the savages, and have taken them as their wi' 
have had many children by them all, and yet 
married to them after 
lawe of God and man i 
ui the sense of both, nc 
in adultery. To this, 
"will object, that there 
any kind. 



that every one 
se, and very much to your 



' Bays he, " you Y 



among 



y stated legal i 

;quire ; and therefore are yet, 

less than adiJterers, and living 

sir," saya he, " I know you 

i/zs no clergyman or priest of 

ly profession, to perform the cere- 

1 and ink, or paper, to write down 

iage, and have it signed between 

them. And I know also, sir, what the Spaniard 

governor has told you ; I mean of the agreement that 

he obliged them to make when they took these women, 

., that they should choose them out by consent, 

1 keep separately to them ; which, by the way, is 



i 



126 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

nothing of a marriage, no agreement with the women 
as wives, but only an agreement among themselves, to 
keep them from quarrelling. 

" But, sir, the essence of the sacrament of matrimony 
(so he called it, being a Roman) consists not only in 
the mutual consent of the parties to take one another 
as man and wife, but in the formal and legal obligation 
that there is in the contract to compel the man and 
woman at all times to own and acknowledge each 
other; obliging the men to abstain from all other 
women, to engage in no other contract while these 
subsist; and on all occasions, as ability allows, to 
provide honestly for them and their children ; and to 
oblige the women to the same, or like conditions, 
mutatis mutandisy on their side. 

** Now, sir," says he, " these men may, when they 
please, or when occasion presents, abandon these 
women, disown their children, leave them to perish, 
and take other women and marry them whilst these 
are living." And here he added with some warmth, 
" How, sir, is God honoured in this unlawful liberty ? 
And how shall a blessing succeed your endeavours in 
this place, however good in themselves, and however 
sincere in your design, while these men, who at 
present are your subjects, under your absolute govern- 
ment and dominion, are allowed by you to live in 
open adultery ? " 

I confess I was struck at the thing itself, but much 
more with the convincing arguments he supported it 
with. For it was certainly tnifc>^that though they had 
no clergyman upon the spot, yet "^formal contract on 
both sides, made before witnesses, "^d confirmed by 
any token which they had all agreed tl> be bound by, 
though it had been but breaking a stick between them, 
engaging the men to own these women for their wives 
upon all occasions, and never to abandon them or their 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1 27 

children, and the women to the same with their hus- 
bands, had been an effectual lawful marriage in the 
sight of God, and it was a great neglect that it was 
not done. 

But I thought to have gotten off with my young 
priest by telling him, that all that part was done when 
I was not here ; and they had lived so many years with 
them now, that if it was an adultery it was past remedy, 
they could do nothing in it now. 

** Sir,** says he, ** asking your pardon for such free- 
dom, you are right in this ; that it being done in your 
absence, you could not be charged with that part of 
the crime ; but I beseech you, flatter not yourself that 
you are not therefore under an obligation to do your 
utmost now to put an end to it. How can you think 
but that, let the time past lie on whom it will, all the 
^uult for the future will He entirely upon you ? Because 
it: is certainly in your power now to put an end to it, 
a.i:^d in nobody's power but yours." 

I was so dull still, that I did not take him right, but 

X imagined that by putting an end to it he meant that 

X should part them, and not suffer them to Hve together 

SLw^y longer ; and I said to him I could not do this by 

^^lay means, for that it would put the whole island into 

<^ confusion. He seemed surprised that I should so far 

'aaistake him. " No, sir,'* says he, " I do not mean 

^^t you should now separate them, but legally and effec- 

*^Mlly marry them now; and as, sir, my way of 

**Mrrying them may not be so easy to reconcile them 

^> though it will be as effectual even by your own 

**W8 ; so your way may be as well before God, and as 

^^d among men ; I mean by a written contract, signed 

°y both man and woman, and by all the witnesses 

pi^sent, which all the laws of Europe would decree 

to be vaUd.'* 

I was amazed to see so much true piety, and so 



128 ADVENTURES OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

much sincerity of zea], besides the unusual impartiality 
in his discourse, as to his own party or church, and 
such true warmth for the preserving people that lie 
had no knowledge of or relation to ; I say, for pre- 
serving them from transgressing the laws of God j the 
like of which I had indeed not met with anywhere. 
But recollecting what he had said of marrying them by 
a written contract, which I knew would stand too, I 
returned it back upon him, and told him I granted all 
that he had said to be just, and on his part very kind; 
that I would discourse with the men upon the pninl 
now, when I came to them ; and I knew no rrason 
why they should scruple to let him marry them alU 
which I knew well enough would be granted to be as 
authentic and valid in England, an if they were married 
by one of our own clergymen. What was afterwanJs 
done in this matter, I shall speak of by itself. 

I then pressed him to tell me what was the secowt 
complaint which he had to make, acknowledging that: 
I WB! very much his debtor for the first, and thaokpi 
him heartily for it. He told me he would use the 
same freedom and plainness in the second, and hoped 
I would take it as well ; and this was, that not- 
withstanding these English subjects of mine, a 
called them, had lived with those women for almost 
seven years, had taught them to speak English, and 
even to read it ; and that they were, as he perceived, 
women of tolerable understanding and capable of in- 
struction i yet they had not to this hour taught them 
anything of the Christian religion ; no, not so much as 
to know that there was a God, or a worship, or in what 
manner God was to be served ; or that their 
idolatry, and worshipping they knew not whom, 
false and absurd. 

This, he said, was an unaccountable neglect, 
w' ^ertainly call them to account for. 



iDVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



RVI 
>a 31 last take the work out of their hands. 
He spoke this very affectionately and warmly. " I ara 
persuaded," saye he, " had thoae men lived in the 
savage country whence their wives came, the savages 
would have taken more pains to have brought them 
to be idolaters, and to worship the devil, than any of 
these men, so far as he could see, had taken with them 
to teach them the knowledge of the true God. Now, 
sir," said he, " though I do not acknowledge your 
religion, or you mine, yet we should be glad to see 
' the devil's servants, and the subjects of his kingdom, 
taught to know the general principles of the Christian 
^religion; that they might at least hear of God, and of 
' a Redeemer, and of the resurrection, and of a fiiture 
. state, things which we all believe i they had at least 
been so much nearer coming into the bosom of the 
tnie Church, than they are now in the public profession 
of idolatry and devil worship," 

I could hold no longer ; I took him in my arms, 
and embraced him with an excess of passion, " How 
fer," said I to him, "have I been from understanding 
the most essential prt of a Christian, viz., to love the 
interest of the Christian Church, and the good of other 
men's souls ! I scarce have known what belongs to 
being a Christian." — " Oh, sir, do not say so," replied 
he; "this thing is not your feult." — "No," says I j 
*' but why did I never lay it to heart as well as you ? " 
— "'Tia not too late yet," said hei "be not too 
forward to condemn yourself." — " But what can be 
done now ? " said I j " you see I am going away." — 
" Will you give me leave," said he, " to talk with 
these poor men about it ! " — " Yes, with all my heart," 
said I i "and I will oblige them to give heed to what 
you say too." — " As to that," said he, " we must leave 
them to the mercy of Christ ; but it is our business to 
Bssist them, encourage them, and instruct them ; and if 




I30 AOVKNTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

you will give me leave, and God His blemng, 1 dn 
not doubt but the poor ignorant bouIb shall be b'OUght 
home into the great circle of Chtifitianity, into ibt 
particular faith that we all embrace ; atjd that CTta 
while you stay here." Upon this I said, " I shall ott 
ot)!y give you leave, but give you a thousand thanta 
for it." What followed on this account I shall men- 
tion also again in its place. 

I now pressed him for the third article in which we 
were to blame, "Why really," says he, "it is oftlie 
same nature, and I will proceed, asking your ieiie* 
with the same plainness as before ; it is about your' 
poor savages, who are, as I may say, your coit"" 
quered subjects. It is a maxim, sir, that is, O*" 
ought to be received among all Christians, of whs^- 
Church, or pretended Church soever, viz.. The Christ 
tian knowledge ought Co be propagated by all possible 
means, and on al! possible occasions. 'Tis on thi* 
principle that our Church sends missionaries into Persia. 
India, and China ; and that our clergy, even of the 
superior son, willingly engage in the most hazardou 
voyages, and the most dangerous residence among 
murderers and barbarians, to teach them the knowledge 
of the true God, and to bring them over to embrace 
the Christian faith. Now, sir, you have such an 
opportiroity here to have sis or seven and thirty poor 
savages brought over from idolatry to the knowledge 
of God, their Maker and Redeemer, that I wonder 
how you can pass such an occasion of doing good, 
which is really worth the expense of a man's whole 
lifr" 

I wu now struck dumb indeed, and had not 
word to say ; I had here a spirit of true Christian zeal 
For God and religion before me, let his particular 
principles be of what kind soever. As for me, I had 
not so much at entertained a thought of this in my 



MJTENTtniKS OT ROBmsON CHW50E. I31 

heart before, and I believe should not have thought of 
for I looked upon these savagea as slaves, and 
people whom, had we had any work for them to do, we 
would have used as such, or would have been glad to 
; transported them to any other part of the world ; 
aur business was to get rid of them, and we would 
sll have been aatiafied if they had been sent to any 
country, so they had never seen their own. But to 
the case ; I say, I was confounded at hia discourse, 
and knew not what answer 10 make him. He looked 
eamegtly at me, seeing me in some disorder. " Sir," 
■ays he, "I shall be very sorry if what I have said 
gives you any offence." — " No, no," says I, " I am 
offended with nobody but myself; but I am perfectly 
confounded not only to think that I should never take 
notice of this before, hut with reflecting what 
notice I am able to take of it now. You know, sir," 
■aid I, "what circumstances I am in ; I am bound to 
5 East Indies, in a ship freighted by merchants, and 
'o whom it would be an insufferable piece of injustice 
'** detain their ship here, the men lying all this while 
^t victuals and wages upon the owners' account. It is 
'^Me I agreed to be allowed twelve days here, and if 
* stay more I must pay i6'3 sterling per diem demur- 
rage) HOC can I stay upon demurrage above eight days 
*Oore, and I have been here thirteen days already, so 
^hal I am perfectly unable to engage in this work, 
taJeafl I would suffer myself to be left behind here 
n 1 in which case, if tliia single ship should miscarry 
IB any pait of her voyage, I should be just in the same 
condition that I was left in here at first, and from 
which I have been so wonderfully delivered." 

He owned the case was very hard upon me as to 
ray voyage, but laid it home upon my conscience, 
whether the blessing of saving seven and thirty souls 
not worth my venturing all I had in the world 



i 



13? ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

for ! I was not so sensible of that as iie wa 
returned upon him thus : " Why, eir, it is a valuable 
thing indeed to be an instrument in God's hand 
convert seven and thirty heathens lo the knowledge 
of Christ ; but as you are an ecclesiastic, and are ^ven 
over to the work, so that it seems bo naturally to M 
into the way of your profee.iioD, how is it that you do 
not rather offer yourself to undertake it, than press me 
to it ? " 

Upon this he feced about, just before me, as 
walked along, and putting me to a full stop, made 
a very low bow. " I most heartily thank God, : 
you, sir," says he, "for giving me so evident a i 
to so blessed a work ; and if you think yourself ( 
charged from it, and desire me to undertake it, I ' 
most readily do it, and think it a happy reward for all 
the hazards and dilGculties of such a broken disap- 
pointed voyage as I have met with, that I may be 
dropped at last into so glorious a work." 

I discovered a kind of rapture in his face while iie 
spoke this to me ; his eyea sparkled like fire, his 6ce 
glowed, and his colour came and went as if he bad 
been falling into fits ; in a word, he was (ired with the 
joy of being embarked in such a work. I paused 
considerable while before I could tell what to say ' 
lum, for I was really surprised to find a man of such 
uncerity and zeal, and carried out in his zeal beyond 
the ordinary rate of men, not of his profession onlyt 
but even of any profession whatsoever. But after 1 
had considered it awhile, I asked him seriously if h( 
was in earnest, and that he would venture, on the 
consideration of any attempt on those poor people 
locked up in an unplanted island for perhaps his lif^ 
and at last might not know whether he should be abl^ 
to do them any good, or not ! 

He turned short upon me, and asked me what 



■ ADVENTURES Of ROBINSON CRDSOK. I33 

called a veniure? "Pray, sir," said he, "what do 
you think I consented to go in your ship to the East 
Indies for ? " — " Nay," said I, " that I know not, 
unless it was to preach to the Indiana." — ." Doubtless 
it was," said he ; "and do you think if I can convert 
these seven and thirty men to the faiih of Christ, it is 
not worth my time, though I should never be fetched 
off the island again J Nay, is it not infinitely of more 
worth to save so many aouls than my life is, or the life 
of twenty more of the same profession ? Yes, sir," 
says he, " I would give Chrirt and the Blessed Virgin 
thanks all my days, if I could be made the least happy 
instrument of saving the souls of these poor men, though 
I was never to set my foot off this island, or see my 
native country any more. But since you will honour 
me," says he, " with putting me into this work, for 
which I will pray for you all the days of my life, I 
have one humble petition to you," said he, "besides." 
— "What is that?" said I. — "Why," says he, "it 
is, that you will leave your man Friday with me, to be 
my interpreter to them, and to assist me ; for without 
some help I cannot speak to them, or they to me." 

I was sensibly troubled at his requesUng Friday, 
because I could not think of parting widi him, and 
that for many reasons. He had been the companion 
of my travels ; he was not only feithiiil to me, but 
MDcerely affectionate to the last degree ; and I had 
resolved to do something considerable for him if he 
outlived me, as it was probable he would. Then I 
knew that as I had bred Friday up to be a Protestant, 
it would <]uite confound him to bring him to embrace 
another profession ; and he would never, while his eyes 
were open, believe that his old master was a heretic, 
and would be damned ; and this might in the end ruin 
the poor fellow's principles, and so turp htm to his lirBt 
idolatry. 



1 



t34 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

However, a sudden thought relieved me in this 
strait, and it was this : I told him I could not 
say that I was willing to part with Friday on any 
account whatever ; though a work that to him was <xF 
more value than his life, ought to be to me of much 
less value than the keeping or parting with a servant ; 
but on the other hand, I was persuaded that Friday 
would by no means consent to part with me ; and I 
could not force him to it without his consent without 
manifest injustice, because I had promised and engaged 
him to me that he would never leave me unless I put 
him away. 

He seemed very much concerned at it ; for he had 
no rational access to these poor people, seeing he did 
not understand one word of their language, nor they 
one word of his. To remove this difficulty, I told 
him Friday's father had learnt Spanish, which I found 
he also understood, and he should serve him for an 
interpreter; so he was much better satisfied, and 
nothing could persuade him but he would stay to 
endeavour to convert them; but Providence gave 
another and very happy turn to all this. 

I come back now to the first part of his objections. 
When we came to the Englishmen, I sent for them all 
together ; and after some account given them of what 
I had done for them, viz., what necessary things I 
had provided for them, and how they were distributed, 
which they were very sensible of, and very thankful 
for, I began to talk to them of the scandalous life they 
led, and gave them a full account of the notice the 
clergyman had already taken of it ; and arguing how 
unchristian and irreligious a life it was, I first asked 
them if they were married men or bachelors ? They soon 
explained their condition to me, and showed me that 
two of them were widowers, and the other three were 
single men or bachelors. I asked them with what 



ADVENTURES Of ROIBINSON CRUSOE, I35 

they could take these women, and lie with 
them, as they had done, call them their wives, and 
have BO many children by them, and not be married 
lawfiilly to them i 

They all gave me the answer that I expected, viz., 
that there was nobody to marry them ; that they agreed 
before the governor to keep them aa their wives, and 
to keep them and own thera as their wives ; and they 
thought, as things stood with them, they were as legally 
married as if they had been married by a parson, and 
with all the formalities in the world. 

I told them that no doubt they were married in the 
sight of God, and were bound in conscience to keep 
them as their wives ; but that the laws of men being 
otherwise, they might pretend they were not married, 
and 80 desert the poor women and children hereafter ; 
and that their wives, being poor, desolate women, 
friendless and moneyless, would have no way to help 
themselves. I therefore told them, that unless I was 
assured of their honest intent, I could do nothing for 
them 1 but would take care that what I did should 
be for the women and their children without them ; 
and that unless they would give some assurances that 
they would marry the women, I could not think it 
was convenient they should continue together as man 
and wife ; for that it was both scandalous to men and 
offensive to God, who they could not think would 
bless them !f they went on thus. 

All this went on as I expected ; and they told me, 
especially Will Atkins, who seemed now to speak for 
the rest, that they loved their wives as well as if they 
had been born io their own native country, and would 
not leave them upon any account whatever ; and they 
did verily believe their wives were as virtuous and as 
modest, and did to the utmost of their skill as much 
for them and for their children as any women could 



w 

I 



136 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

possibly do, and they would not part with them od my 
account ; and Will Atkins for his own particular 
added, if any man would take him away, and otFer <a 
carry him home to England, and make him captain of 
the best man-of-war in the navy, he wouM not go 
with him if he might not carry his wife and children 
with him ; and if there was a clergyman in the ship, 
he would be married to her now with all his heart 

This was just as I would have it. The priest wai 
not with me at that moment, but was not far oS; K 
to try him farther, I told him I had a clergyman witb 
me, and if he was sincere I would have hun married 
the next morning, and bid him consider of it, and 
talk with the rest. He said, as for himself, he need 
not consider of it at all, for he was very ready to do it, 
and was glad I had a minister with me ; and he believed 
they would be all willing also. I then told him thai 
my friend the minister was a Frenchman, and could 
not speak English, but that I would act the clerk 
betweeD them. He never so much as asked me 
whether he was Papist or Protestant, which was 
indeed what I was afraid of; but, I say, they never 
inquired about it. So we parted ; I went back to ray 
clergyman, and Will Atkins went in to talk with hia 
companions, I desired the French gentleman not to 
say anything to them till the business was thorough ripe, 
and I told him what answer the men had given me. 

Before I went from their quarter they all came to 
me, and told me they had beeo considering what I 
had said ; that they were very glad to hear I had a 
clergyman in my company ; and they were very willing 
to give me the satisfaction I desired, and 10 be formaJly 
married as soon as I pleased j for they were far from 
desiring to part with their wives ; and that they meant 
nothing but what was very honest when they chose them. 
So I appointed them to meet me the next morning, 



HDVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 137 

and that in the meaatime they should let their wives 
know the meaoittg of the marriage law ; and that it 
was not only to prevent any scandal, but also to oblige 
them that they should not forsake them, whatever 
might happen. 

The women were easily made sensible of the meaning 
of the thing, and were very well satislied with it, as 
indeed they had reason to be ; so they failed not to 
attend all together at my apartment the next morning, 
where I brought out my clergyman ; and though he 
had not on a minister's gown, after the manner of Eng- 
land, or the habit of a priest, after the manner of France ; 
yet having a black vest, something like a cassock, 
with a saeh round it, he did not look very unlike a 
minister ; and as for his language, I was his inter- 
preter. 

But the seriouBness of his behaviour to them, and 
the scruples he made of marrying the women because 
they were not baptized and professed Christians, gave 
them an exceeding revereDce for his person ; and there 
was no need after that to inquire whether he was a 
clergyman or no. 

Indeed I was afraid his scruple would have been 
carried so far as that he would not have married them 
at all ; nay, notwithstanding all I was able to say to 
him he resisted me, though modestly, yet very steadily, 
and at last refused absolutely to marry them unless he 
had first talked with the men and the women too ; and 
though at first I was a little backward to it, yet at 
last I agreed to it with a good will, perceiving the 
Mncerity of his design. 

When he came to them, he let them know that I 
had acquainted him with their circumstances, and with 
the present design ; that he was very willing to perform 
that part of his fijnction, and marry them as I had 
(leiired ; but that before he could do it, he must take 



w 



1 



IjS ADVKNTUKES OF HOBINSON CRUSOE. 

the liberty to talk with them. He told them that in the 
sight of ail indifferent men, and in theseose of thetawi 
oF society, they had lived all this while in an open 
adultery ; and that it was true that nothing but the 
consenting to marry, or effectually separating them 
Trom one another doW) could put aa end to it; but 
there was a difficulty io it too, with respect lo the lawi 
of Christian matrimony, which he was not fully aatisflKi 
about, viz., that of marrying one that is a professed 
Christian to a savage, an idolater, and a heathen, one 
that is not baptized ; and yet that he did not see that 
there was time left for it to endeavour to persuade the 
women to be baptized, or to profesa the oame of 
Christ, whom they had, he doubted, heard nothing of, 
and without which they could not be baptized. 

He told them, he doubted they were but indifferent 
Christians themselves ; that they had but little know- 
ledge of God or of His ways, and therefore he could not 
expect that they had said much to their wives on that 
head yec ; but that unless they would promise him to 
use their endeavour with their wives to persuade them 
to become Chrietians, and would, as well as they could, 
instruct them in the knowledge and belief of God that 
made them, and to worship Jesus Christ that redeemed 
them, he could not marry them ; for he would have a 
hand in joining Christiana with savages ; nor was 
consistent with the principles of the Christian religion, 
and was indeed expressly forbidden in God's law. 

They heard all this very attentively, and 1 delivered 
it very faithfully to them from his mouth, as near his 
own words as I could, only sometimes adding some- 
thing of my own to convince them how just it was, 
and how I was of his miod ; and I always very faith- 
fully distinguished between what I said for myself 
and what were the clergyman's words. They told a 
it was very true what the gentleman had said, thi 



ADVENTURES OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1 39 

they weie but very indifferent Christians themselves, 
and that they never taJked to their wives about 
religion. — " Lord, sir," says Will Atkins, " how 
should we teach them religion ? Why, we know 
nothing ourselves ; and besides, sir," said he, " should 
we go to talk to them of God, and JesuB Christ, and 
heaveo and hell, 'twould be to make them laugh at us, 
and ask ua what we believe ourselvea ; and if we 
should tell them we believe all the things that we 
speak of to them, such as of good people going to 
heaven, and wicked people to the devil, tliey would 
ask us where we intend to go ourselves that believe 
all this, and are such wicked fellows, as we indeed are. 
Why, sir, 'tia enough to give them a surfeit of religion 
ai first hearing. Folks must have some religion them- 
selves before they pretend to teach other people," — 
•• Will Atkins," said I to him, " though I am afraid 
what you say has too much truth in it, yet can you 
not tell your wife that she's in the wrong ; that there 
is a God, and a religion better than her own ; that her 
gods are idols ; that they can neither hear or speak ; 
that there is a great Being that made all things, and 
that can destroy all that He had made ; that He 
rewards the good, and punishes the bad ; and that we 
are to be judged by Him, at last, for all we do here ? 
You are not so ignorant but even Nature itself will 
teach you that all this is true ; and I am satisfied you 
know it all to be true, and believe it yourself." 

" That's true, sir," said Atkins ; " but with what 
face can I say anything to my wife of all this, whea 
she will tell me immediately it cannot be true I " — 
" Not true I " said I ; " what do you mean by that ! " 
— " Why, sir," said he, " she will tell me it cannot be 
true) that this God I shall tell her of can be just, or 
can punish or reward, since I ara not punished and 
salt to the devil, that have been such a wicked creature, 



140 ADVENTURES or ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

as she knows I have been, eveo to her, and to every- 
body else ; and that I should be suffered to live, ttul 
have been always acting so coDtrary to what I mint 
tell her is good, and to what I ought 10 have done." 

" Why truly, Atldna," said I, " I am afraid thou 
apeakest too much truth ; " and with that I let ihc 
clErgyman know what Atkins had said, for he was 
impatient to know. "Oh! " said the priest, "tell 
him there is one thing will make him the best mioister 
in the world to his wife, and that is repentance; ior 
none teach repentance like true penitents. He wants 
nothing but to repent, and then he will be so much the 
better qualified to instruct his wife; he will then be 
able to tell her that there is not only a God, and that 
He is the just rewarder of good and evil ; but that He 
is a merciful Being, and with infinite goodness and 
long-suffering forbears to punish those that offend 1 
waiting to he gracious, and willing not the death of a 
sinner, but rather that he should return and live ; that 
oftentimeg suffers wicked men to go on a long tiine,and 
even reserves damnation to the general day of retribu- 
tion ; that it is a clear evidence of God, and of a 
fiiture state, that righteous men receive not their 
reward, or wicked men their punishment, undl they 
come into another world ; and this will lead him to 
teach his wife the doctrine of the resurrection, and of 
the last judgment. Let him but repent for himself, he 
will be an excellent preacher of repentance to his wife." 

I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very 
serious all the while, and who, we could easily perceive, 
was more than ordinarily affected with it ; when being 
eager, and hardly sutTering me to make an end, " I 
know all this, master," says he, " and a great deal 
more ; but I han't the impudence to talk thus to my 
wife, when God and my own conscience knows, and 
my wife will be an undeniable evidence against me, 



AovEimneES or nomwsow CRtrsoE 

thai I have lired as I had never heard of a God or 
future Htate, or anything abont it i and to talk of my 
repenting, alas ! " and with that he fetched a deep 
b, and I coold see that tears stood in his eyes, 
OS past all that with me." — " Past it, Atkins ! " 
II;" what dost thou mean by that ? " — " I know 
well enough what I mean," says he ; "I mean 'lis 
30 late ; and that is too true." 

I told my clergyman word for word what he said. 
The poor zealous priest (I must call him so, for be 
"i opinion what it will, he had certainly a most 
ignlar afFec^on for the good of other men's bouIb, 
and it would be hard to think he had not the like for 
hi* own], I say, this zealous, aifeccionate man could 
not refrain tears also i but recovering himself, he said 
to me, " Aak him but one question, la he easy that 
it is too late, or is he troubled, and wishes it were not 
so?" I put the question fairly to Atkins j and he 
answered with a great deal of passion, bow could 
any man be easy in a condition that certainly must end 
in eternal destructioo i that be was far from being 
easy ; but that, on the contrary, he believed it would 
one time or other ruin him. " What do you mean 
by that i " said I. " Why," he said, " he believed 
he should, one lime or other, cut his throat to put an 
end to the terror of it." 

The clergyman shook his head, with a great concern 
in his face, when I told him all this ; but turning quick 
to me upon it, says he, " If that be his case, you may 
assure him it is not too late ; Christ will give him 
repentance. But pray," says he, " explain this to 
him, that as no man is saved but by Christ, and the 
merits of Mis pission, procuring Divine mercy tor him, 
how can it be too late for any man to receive mercy ? 
Does he think he is able to sin beyond the power or 
reach of Divine mercy ? Pray tell him, there may be 



14? 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



a time when provoked ir 
when God may refuse ti 



ercy will no longer strive, and 
] hear ; but that 'tis never too 
rcy ; and we that are CliriBt's 
e commanded to preach mercy at all timei, 
in tne name of Jesus Christ, to all those that sincerely 
repent ; so that 'tis never too late to repent," 

I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with g 
earnestness ; but it seemed aa if he turned off the dis- 
course to the rest ; for he said to me he would go 
have some talk with his wife ; so he went out awhile, 
and we talked to the rest. I perceived they wei 
stupidly ignorant as to matters of religion, much 
was when I went rambling away from my father ; and 
yet that there were none of them backward to hear whal 
had been said ; and all of them seriously promised that 
they would talk with their wives about it, and do their 
endeavour to persuade them to turn Christians. 

The clergyman smiled upon me when I reported 
what answer they gave, but said nothing a good while ; 
but at last shaking hia head, "We that arc Christ's 
servants," says he, " can go no fijrther than to exhort 
and instruct ; and when men comply, submit to the 
reproof, and promise what we ask, 'tis all we cai 
We are bound to accept their good words ; but believe 
me, sir," said he, "whatever you may have known of 
the life of that man you call Will Atkins. I believe 
he is the only sincere convert among them. I take 
that man to be a true penitent i I won't despair of the 
rest, but that man is apparently struck with the sense 
of his past life j and I doubt not but when he cornea 
to talk religion to his wife, he will talk himself 
effectually into it ; for attempting to teach others is 
sometimes the best way of teaching ourselves. I knew 
a man, who having nothing but a summary notii 
of religion himself, and being wicked and profliga 
10 the last degree in his life, made a thorough 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE I43 

reformation in himself by labouring to convei 
If that poor Atkins begins but once to talk seriouBly of 
a Christ to his wife, my life for it he talks himself 
a thorough convert, makes himself a penitent 
who knows what may follow!" 

Upon this discourse, however, and their promising, 
IS above, to endeavour to persuade their wives to en 
brace Christianity, he married the other three coupli 
but WiU Atkins and his wife were not yet come in. 
After this my clergyman, waiting awhile, was curious 
I know where Atkins was gone ; and turning to me, 
saya he, " I entreat you, sir, let us walk out of your 
labyrinth here and look ; I dare say we shall find this 
poor man somewhere or other talking seriously to his 
wife, and teaching her already something of religion." 
J began to be of the same mind j so we went out 
together, and I carried him a way which none knew 
t myself, and where the trees were so thick set, as 
that it was not easy to see through the thicket of leaves, 
and fer harder to see in than to sec out ; when coming 
Q the edge of the wood I saw Atkins and his tawny 
savage wife sitting under the shade of a bush, very 
«ager in discourse. I stopped short till my clergyman 
came up to me, and then having showed him where 
they were, we stood and looked very steadily at them 
a good while. 

We observed him very earnest with her, pointing up 
to the sun, and to every quarter of the heavens, then 
down to the earth, then out to the sea, then to himself, 
then to her, to the wooda, to the trees. " Now," says 
my clergyman, " you see my wojds are made good, the 
man preaches to her ; mark him now, he is telling her 
that our God has made him, and her, and the heavens, 
the earth, the sea, the woods, the trees, Stc." — " I 
believe he is," said I. Immediately we perceived Will 
feet, fall down on his knees, 



3 



w 



144 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

and lift Up both his hands ; we auppcwe he said sc 
thing, but we could not hear him ; it was coo far for 
thaL He did not continae kneeling half a minute, but 
coiTV^a and sits down again by his wife, and talks to her 
again. We perceived then the woman very attentive, 
but whether she said anything or no we could not tel!. 
While the poor fellow was upon his knees, I could sw 
the tears run plentifully down my clergyman's cheeb, 
and I could hardly forbeiir myself; but it was a greit 
affliction to us both that we were not near enough w 
hear anything that passed between them. 

Well, however, we could come no nearer for fear of 
disturbing them ; so we resolved to see an end of this 
piece of still conversation, and it spoke loud enough tu 
us without the help of voice. He sat down again, as I 
have said, close by her, and talked again eameatly lo 
her, and two or three times we could see him embrace 
her most passionately ; another time we saw him take 
out hia handkerchief and wipe her eyes, and then kiss 
her again, with a kind of transport very unusual ; aiiA« 
after several of these things we see him, on a sudden :0 
jump up again, and lend hi?r his hand to help her up^ 
when immediately leading her by the hand a step OE^ 
two, they both kneeled down together, and continue 
so about two minutes. 

My friend could bear it no longer, but cries ot 
aloud, " St Paul, St Paul, behold he prayeth ! ' 
I was afraid Atkins would hear him, therefore I 
entreated him to withhold himself awhile, that we might 
see an end of the scene, which to me, I must confess, 
was the most affecting, and yet the most agreeable, that 
ever I saw in my life. Well, he strove with himselt, 
and contained himself for awhile, but was in such rap- 
tures of joy to think that the poor heathen woman was 
become a Christian, that he was not able to contain 
hiiDielf. He wept several times j then throwing up hii 





1 

J 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 145 

hands and crossing hit; breasc, eaid over several things 
ejacuiatory, and by way of giving God thanks for so 
miraculous a testimony of the success of our endeavours- 
Some he spoke softly, and I could not well hear ; others 
audibly ; some in Latin, some in French ; then two 
or three times the tears of joy would interrupt him, that 
he could not speak at all. But I begged that he would 
compose himself, and let us more narrowly and (iilly 
observe what was before us, which he did for a time, 
and the scene was not ended there yet ; for after the 
poor man and his wife were risen again from their knees, 
we observed be stood talking still eagerly to her ; and 
we observed by her motion that she was greatly affected 
with what he said, by her frequent lifting up her 
hands, laying her hand to her breast, and such other 
postures as usually express the greatest seriousness and 
attention. This continued about half a quarter of an 
hour, and then they walked away too ( SO that we could 
see no more of them in that situalioo. 

I took this interval to talk with my clergyman ; 
and first I told him, I was glad to see the pardculars 
we had both been witnesses to ; that though I was 
hard enough of belief in such cases, yet that I began 
to think it was all very sincere here, both in the man 
and his wife, however ignorant they might both be ; 
apd I hoped such a beginning would have a yet more 
happy end ; " and who knows," said I, " but these 
two may in lime, by instruction and example, work 
upon some of the others ? " — " Some of them ! " said 
he, turning quick upon me, "ay, upon all of them. 
Depend upon it, if those two savages, for he has been 
bui little better as you relate it, should embrace Jesus 
Christ, they will never leave till they work upon all 
the rest ; for true religion is naturally communicative, 
and he that is once made a Christian will never leave 
a ingan behind him if he can help it." I owned it 



1 46 ADVENTUKES OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. 

was a most Christian principle (a think so, and a 
testimony of a true zeal, as wcil as a geoeroua 
heart in him. *' But, ray friend," said I, " will yoa 
gi?e me leave to start one difficulty here J I cannot 
tell how to object the least thing against that affec- 
tionate concern which you show for the turning the 
poor people from their paganism to the Christian 
religion ; but how does thii comfort you, while these 
people are, in your account, out of the pale of the 
Catholic Church, without which, you believe, there is 
no salvation, so that you esteem these but heretics ; 
and for other reasons, as elfectually lost as the pagans 
themselves?" 

To this he answered with abundance of candour 
and Christian charity, thus : " Sir, I am a Catholic 
of the Roman Church, and a priest of the order of 
St Benedict, and I embrace all the principles of the 
Roman faith ; but yet, if you will believe me, and 
that I do not speak in compliment to you, or in 
respect to my circumstances and your civilities j I say, 
nevertheless, I do not look upon you, who call your- 
selves reformed, without some charity. I dare not say, 
though I know it is our opinion in general — I say, 
I dare not say that you cannot be saved ; I will by 
no means limit the mercy of Christ so far as to think 
that He cannot receive you into the bosom of His 
Church, in a manner to us unperceivable, and which 
it is impossible for us to know ; and I hope you have 
the same charity for us. I pray daily for your b^ng 
all restored to Christ's Church, by whatsoever methods 
He, who is all-wise, is pleased to direct. In the 
meantime, sure you will aflow it to consist with me, 
as 3 Roman, to distinguish far between a Protestant 
and a pagan ; between one that calls on Jesus Christ, 
though in a way which I do not think is according 
to the true faith, and a savage, a barbarian, that knows 




ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. I47 

no God, no Christ, no Redeemer ) and if you i 
not within the pale of the Catholic Church, we hope 
you are nearer being restored to it than those that 
knew nothing of God or His Church; and I rejoice, 
therefore, when I aee this poor man, who, you say, 
has been a profligate, and almost a murderer, kneel 
down and pray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose he did, 
though not fully enlightened ; believing that God, from 
whom every such work proceeds, will aensibly touch 
hiB heart, and bring him to the further knowledge of 
that truth in His own time. And if God shall influence 
this poor man to convert and instruct the poor ignorant 
savage his wife, I can never believe that he shall be 
cast away himself; and have I not reason then to 
rejoice the nearer any are brought to the knowledge 
of Christ, though they may not be brought quite home 
into the bosom of the Catholic Church, just in the 
time when I may desire it ; leaving it to the goodness 
of Christ to perfect His work in His own time, and 
in His own way .' Certainly I would rejoice if all 
the savages in America were brought, like this poor 
woman, to pray to God, though they were to iie 
all Protestants at first, rather than they should continue 
pagans and heathens ; lirmly believing, that He that 
had bestowed the first light to them, would further 
illuminate them with a beam of His heavenly grace, 
and bring them into the pale of His Church, when 
He ihould aee good." 

I was astouished at the sincerity and temper of this 
truly pioiu Papist, as much as I was oppressed by the 
power of bis reasoning ; and it presently occurred to 
my thoughts that if such a temper was universal, we 
might be all Catholic Christians, whatever church 01 
particular profession we joined to, or joined in ; that 
a spirit of charity would soon work us all up into 
right principles ; and, in a word, as he thought that 



.48 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOB, 



• like chdriiy wouJd make ua all Catholic . 
told him 1 believed had ail the members of hiB 
Church the Uke moderation, they would soon be all 
Protestants ; and there we left that part, for we aeia 
disputed 3t all. 

However, I talked to him another way ; atid taking 
him by the hand, " My friend," aays I, " I wish all 
the clergy of the Romish Church were blesBed with 
fluch moderation, and had an equal share of your charily. 
I am entirely of your opinion ; but I must tell you, 
that if you should preach such doctiine in Sp^n or 
Italy, they would put you into the Inquisition.* 

" It may be so," said he ; "I know not what they 
might do in Spain or Italy ; but I will not say they 
would be the better Christians for that severity, for I 
am aure there ia no heresy in too much charity," 

Well, aa Will Atkins and his wife were gone, our 
busineas there waa over, so we went back i 
way, and when we came back we found them waiting 
to be called in. ObserTiog this, I asked my clergy- 
man if we should discover to him that we had seen 
hitn under the bush, or no ? and it was his opinion we 
ahould not ; but that we should talk to him first, and 
hear what he would say to us. So we called him ii 
alone, nobody being in the place but ourselves ; and I 
began with him thus : 

"Will Atkins," said I, "prythee what educatio 
had you ! What waa your father ! " 

W. A. A better man than ever I shall be. Sir, my 
&ther was a clergyman. 

R. C. What educadon did he give 

W. A. He would have taught me 
despised all education, instruction, or 
beast as 1 was. 

R. C. It's true, Solomon says, " He that despises 
reproof is brutish-" 



/ell, si 



; but I 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 149 

H^. A, Ay, sir, I was brutish indeed ; I murdered 
my fecher; for God's sake, sir, talk no mare about 
that, sir ; I murdered my poor father. 

Pr. Ha ! a murderer ! 

^Here the priest started, for I interpreted every 
word as he spoke it, and looked pale. Ii seems 
he believed that Will had really killed his own 
fetber.] 

R, C. No, no, Bir ; I do not undersund him so. 
Will AtkioB, explain yourself. You did not kill your 
father, did you, with your own hand ! 

W. A. No, air, I did not cut his throat ; but I cut 
the thread of his comforts, and shortened his days ; 
I broke his heart by the moat ungrateful, unnatural 
return for the most tender, affectionate treatment that 
ever father gave, or child could receive. 

R. C. Well, I did not aak you about your father to 
extort this confession ; I pray God give you repentance 
for it, and forgive you that and all your other sina ; but 
I asked you because I see that, though you have not 
much learning, yet you are not ao ignorant as some are 
in thinga that are good 5 that you have known more ot 
religion a great deal than you have practised. 

H^. A. Though you, sir, did not extort the confes- 
sion that I made about my father, conscience does ; 
and whenever we come to look back upon our Uvea, 
the sins against our indulgent parents are certaiiUy the 
first that touch us ; the wounds they make lie the 
deepest ; and the weight they leave will lie heaviest 
upon the mind of all the ains we can commit. 

R. C. You t;dk too feelingly and sensibly for me, 
Alkioa ; I cannot hear it. 

/f. A. You bear it, master ! I dare say you know 
nothing of it. 

R, C, Yes, Atkina, every shore, every hill, nay, I 
may say every tree in this island, is witness to the 



p 

i 



150 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

anguish of my soul for my ingratitude and base usage 
of a good tender father — a father much like youn 
by your description i and I murdered ray father as well 
as you, Will Atkins; but I think for all that my 
repentance is short of yours too, by a great deal. 

I would have said more, if I could have restnuned 
my pasaioDS 1 but I thought this poor man's repentance 
was BO much sincerer than mine, that I was goiog to 
leave off the discourse and retire, for I was eurprised 
with what he said, and thought that, instead of my 
going about to teach and instruct him, the man was 
a teacher and instructor to me, in a most surprising and 
unexpected manner. 

I laid all this before the young clergyman, who was 
greatly affected with it, and said to mc, " Did I not 
say, sir, that when this man was converted he would 
preach to us all ? I tell you, sir, if this one man be 
made a true penitent, here will be no need of me ; he 
will make Christians of all in the island-" But having 
■i little composed myself, I renewed my dlBcourae with 
Will Atkins. 

" But, Will," said I, " how comes the sense of this 
touch you just now i " 

IV. A. Sir, you have set me about a work that has 
struck a dart through my very soul. I have been 
talking about God and religion to my wife, io order, 
as you directed me, to make a Christian of her ; and 
she has preached such a sermon to me as I shall never 
forget while I live. 

R, C, No, no ; it ia not your wife has preached to 
you i but when you were moving religious arguments 
to her, conscience has flung them back upon you. 

IV. j4. Ay, sir, with such a force as is not to be 
resisted. 

H. C. Pray, Will, let us know what passed between 
you and your wife, for I know something of it already. 




OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 151 

IV. A. Sir, ii is impossible to give you a full 
account of it. I am too iiill to hold it, and yet iiave 
no unigue to cKpreas it ; but let her have said what 
she will> and though 1 caaoot give you an account of 
it, this I can tell you of it, that I resolve to amend and 
reform my life. 

R, C, But tell us some of it. How did you begin, 
Will .' lor this hag been an extraordinary case, that's 
certain i she has preached a sermon indeed, if she has 
wrought this upon you. 

fF. W, Why, I first told her the nature of our laws 
about marriage, and what the reasons were that men 
and women were obliged 10 enter into such compacts 
as it was neither in the power of one or other Co break ; 
that otherwise, order and justice could not be main- 
tained, and men would run from their wives and 
abandon their children, niix confusedly with one 
aDother, and neither families be kepi entire, or inherit- 
ances be settled by legal descent. 

R. a You talk like a ciTilian, Will. Could you 
make her understand what you meant by inheritance 
and families .' They know no such thing among the 
savages, but marry anyhow, without regard to relation, 
coDBacguinity, or family ; brother and sister, nay, as I . 
have been told, even the father and daughter, and the I 
son and the mother. 

IV. jf. I believe, sir, you are misinformed ; and n _ 
wife assures me of the contrary, and that they abhor it. 
Perhaps for any farther relations they may not be so 
exact as we are, but she tells me they never touch one 
another in the near relations you speak of. 

a. C. Well, what did she say to what you told | 
her? 

ff". A. She said she liked it very well, and it was ] 
much better than in her country. 

R. C, But did you tell her what marriage was ! 



153 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

IV. A* Ajf ay ; there began all our dialogue. I 
asked her if she would be married to me our way I She 
asked me what way that was ? I told her marriage 
was appointed by God ; and here we had a strange talk 
together indeed, as ever man and wife had, I believe. 

[^N.B, — ^This dialogue between W. Atkins and his 
wife, as I took it down in writing, just after he told it 
me, was as follows.^ 

K^ife, Appointed by your God ! Why, have you 
a God in your country? 

/T. A. Yes, my dear, God is in every country. 

fVtfe. No you God in my country; my country 
have the great old Benamuckee God. 

/^. A. Child, I am very unfit to show you who 
God is. God is in heaven, and made the heaven and 
the earth, the sea, and all that in them is. 

fVi/e. No makee de earth ; no you God make all 
earth, no make my country. 

[W. A. laughed a litde at her expression of God 
not making her country.^ 

K^jfe, No laugh ; why laugh me ? This no thing to 
laugh. 

[He was justly reproved by his wife, for she was 
more serious than he at first.]] 

/r. A, That's true, indeed ; I will not laugh any 
more, my dear. 

If^ife, Why you say, you God make all ? 

/T. A Yes, child, our God made the whole world, 
and you, and me, and all things ; for He is the only 
true God ; there is no God but Him ; He lives for ever 
in heaven. 

H^jfe. Why you no tell me long ago ? 

/T. A. That's true, indeed ; but I have been a 
wicked wretch, and have not only forgotten to acquaint 
thee with anything before, but have lived without God 
in the world myself. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. tS3 

Wife. What, have you de great God in you 
country, you no know Him >. No aay O to Him ? 
No do good thing for Him '. That no possible ! 

ff'. ji. It is too true though, for all that ; we live 
aa if there was no God in heaven, or that He had no 
power on earth. 

m/e. But why God let you do BO ? Why He no 
niakee you good live I 

m A. It is all our own fault. 

Wife. But you say me He ia great, much great, have 
much great power ; can makee kill when He will. Why 
He no makee kill when you do aerve Him, no say O 
10 Him, do be good mans ? 

IV. A, That is true. He might strike me dead, 
and I ought to expect it ; for I have been a wicked 
wretch, chat ia Lrue ; but God is mercifiil, and does not 
deal with us as we dei^erve. 

Wifi. But then, do not you tell God tankee for that 
too? 

W, A, No, indeed ; I have not thanked God for 
His mercy, any more than I have feared God for His 

W'^i. Then you God no God i me no think, believe, 
He be such one, great, much power, strong ; no makee 
kill you, though jtou makee Him much angry. 

W. A. What! will my wicked life hinder you 
from believing in God ? What a dreadful creature 
ana I ; and what ^ sad truth is it, that the horrid 
lives of Christians hinders the conversion of heathens ! 

W^e. How me tink you have great much God ^shc 
poiati up la beaven^ up there and yet no do well, no 
do good thing J Can He tell ? Sure He no tell what 
you do .' 

If, A. Yes, yes. He knows and sees all things ; 
He hears us speak, sees what we do, knows what we 
think, though we do not speak. 



154 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

Wife, What ! He oo hear you swear, curse, speak 
the great damn ? 

W. ji. Yes, yes, He hears it alL 

IVife. Where be then the muchee great power 
strong ? 

IV. A. He is merciful, that's all we can say for 
it ; and this proves Him to be the true God. He is 
God, and not man; and therefore we are not con- 
sumed. 

[Here Will Atkins told us he was struck with 
horror to think how he could tell his wife so clearly 
that God sees, and hears, and knows the secret 
thoughts of the heart, and all that we do, and yet 
that he had dared to do all the vile things he had 
done.] 

wife. Merciful ! what you call that ? 

W. A, He is our Father and Maker, and He pities 
and spares us. 

Wife. So then He never makee kill, never angry 
when you do wicked ; then He no good Himself, or 
no great able. 

W. A. Yes, yes, my dear ; He is infinitely good, 
and infinitely great, and able to punish too ; and some- 
times, to show His justice and vengeance. He lets fly 
His anger to destroy sinners, and make examples; 
many are cut off in their sins. 

Wife. But no make kill you yet; then He tell 
you, may be, that He no make you kill, so you 
make de bargain with Him, you do bad thing. He no 
be angry at you, when He be angry at other mans ? 

W. A. No, indeed, my sins are all presumptions 
upon His goodness ; and He would be mfinitely just 
if He destroyed me, as He has done other men. 

Wife. Well, and yet no kill, no makee you dead ; 
what you say to Him for that? You no tell Him 
tankee for all that too \ 



OF ROBINSON CROSOE. 



'S5 



IV' A. I am an unchaakful, ungrateful dog, that's 
twe. 

IVffe. Why He no raakee you ranch good belter? 

You Bay He tnakee you. 

W. A. He made me ae He made all the world j 
'tis I hare deformed myself, and abused His goodness, 
and made myself an abominable wretch. 

Wife. I wish you makee God know me ; I no 
makee Him angry ; I DO do bad wicked thing. 

[Here Will Atkina said his heart sunk within him 
o hear a poor, untaught creature desire to be taught to 
know God, and he such a wicked wretch that he could 
not say one word to her about God but what the 
reproach of his own carriage would make most irra- 
tional to her to believe ; nay, that already she had told 
him that she could not believe in God, becauae he 
that was so wicked was not destroyed.] 

W. A. My dear, you mean you wish I could teach 
'ou to know God, not God to know you \ for 
He knows you already) and every thought in your 

Wife. Why then He know what I say to you now \ 
He know me wish to know Him ; how shall me 
know who makee me ? 

W. A. Poor creature, He must teach thee, I cannot 
teach thee ; I'll pray to Him to teach thee to know 
Him, and to forgive me that I am unworthy to teach 
ihee. 

£The poor fellow was in such an agony at her desir- 
ing him to make her know God, and her wishing to 
know Him, that he said he fell down on his knees before 
her, and prayed to God to enlighten her mind with the 
saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, and to pardon his 
'ds, and accept of his being the unworthy instrument 
of inttrucdng her in the principles of religion ; after 
which be sat down by her again, and their dialogue 



15fi ADVENTURES OF KOBINSON CRUSOE. 

went on. M B. — This was the time when we saw him 
koeel down and lift up his hands.J 

Wife. What you put dowD the knee for? Wbtt 
you hold up the hand for ? What you say ? Wlo 
you gptak to \ What is all that ? 

W, A. My dear, I bow my knees in token of my 
Bubmiasion to Him that made me ; I said O to Him, 
as you call it, and as you say your old men do to thnr 
idol Benamuckee ; that is, I prayed to Him. 

Wtft. What you say O to Him for ? 

W. A. I prayed to Him 
your understanding, that you 
accepted by Him. 

Wtf,. Can He do that too > 

W. A. Yes, He can ; He can do all things. 

Wife. But now He hear what you say \ 

W. A. Yes ; He has bid us pray to Him, and pro- 
mised to hear us. 

Wife. Bid you pray \ When He bid you >. How^ 
He bid you \ What, you hear Him speak ? 

W. A. No, we do not hear Him speak ; but He 
has revealed Himself many ways to us. 

I^Here he was at a great loss to make her understand 
that God has revealed Himself to us by His Word ; 
and what His Word was ; but at last he told it her 
thus. J 

W. A, God has spoken to some good men in 
former days, even from heaven, by plain words ; and 
God has inspired good men by His Spirit, and they 
have written all His laws down in a book. 

Wife. Me no understand that ; where ia book ? 

W. A. Alas, my poor creature, I have not this 
book ! but I hope I shall, one time or other, get it for 

1, and help you to read it. 

' e embraced her with great affection % but 
" 'e grief that he had not a Bible. |] 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 157 

JVife. But how you makee me know that God 
teachee them to write that book ? 

IV. A. By the same rule that we know Him to be 
God. 

Wife. What rde ? what way you know Him ? 

W. ji. Because He teaches and commands nothing 
but what is good, righteous, and holy, and tends to 
make us perfectly good, as well as perfectly happy i 
and because He forbids, and commands us to avoid, all 
that is wicked, that is evil id itself, or evil \a its con- 

Wife. That me would understand, that me fain see ; 
if He teachee all good thing, forbid all wicked thing. 
He reward all good thing, punish all wicked thing, 
He make all thing. He give all thing ; He hear 
me when I say O to Him, as you go do just now ; 
He makt- me good if I wish be good ; He spare me, 
no makee kill me when I no be good ; all this you say 
He do i yet He be great God ; me uke, think, 
believe him be great God \ me say to Him too with 
you, my dear. 

Here the poor man could forbear no longer ; 
but raising her up, made her kneel by him ; and he 
prayed to God aloud to instruct her in the knowledge 
of Himself by His Spirit ; and that by some good 
providence, if possible, she might some time or other 
come to have a Bible, that she might read the Word 
of God, and be taught by it to know Him. 

This was the time that we saw him lift her up by 
the hand, and saw him kneel down by her, as above. 

They had several other discourses, it seems, after 
this, too long to set down here ; and particularly she 
niade him promise, that since he confessed his own life 
had been a wicked abominable course of provocation 
against God, that he would reform it, and not make 
God angry any more, lest he should make him dead, as 



I5S ADVENTURES OF ROBINSOK CRUSOE. 

she called ii, and thea she ehould be Jeit alon^ and 
never be taught to know this God better ; and leat he 
should be miserable, as he had told her wicked men 
»hou!d be after death. 

Thie waa a strange account, and very afFecting to us 
both, but panicdarly to the young clergyman. He was 
indeed wonder&lly surprised with it, but under the 
greatest affliction imaginable that he could not talk to 
her ; that he could not speak English to make her 
understand htm, and as she spoke but very broken 
English, he could not understand her. However, he 
turned himself to me, and told me that he believed there 
roust be more to do with this woman than to marry her. 
I did not understand him at first, but at length he ex- 
plained himself, viz., that she ought to be baptized. 

I agreed with him in that part readily, and was foe 
going about it presently. " No, no ; hold, sir," said 
he i " though I would have her be baptized by all 
means, yet I must observe that Will Atkins, her 
husband, has indeed brought her, in a wonderful 
manner, to be willing to embrace a religious life; and 
has given her just ideas of the being of a God, of His 
power, justice, mercy ; yet I desire to know of 
liim if he has said anything to her of Jesus Cfariat, 
and of the salvation of sinners ; of the nature of 
feith in Him, and redemption by Him ; of the Holy 
Spirit, the resurrection, the last judgment, and a future 

I called Will Atkins again, and asked him i but 
the poor fellow fell immediately into tears, and told us 
he had said something to her of all those things, but 
that he was himself so wicked a creature, and his own 
conscience so reproached him with his horrid ungodly 
life, that he trembled at the apprehensions that her 
knowledge of him should lessen the attention she should 
give to those things, and make her rather contemn 



iD VENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 






IKdvi 
on than receive it ; but 
that her mind was so disposed to receive due impressions 
of a!l thoae things, that if I would but discourse with 
her, she would make it appear to my satisfaction that 
my labour would not be lost upon her. 

Accordingly I called her in, and placing myself as 
interpreter between my religious priest and the woman, 
I entreated him to begin with her. But sure auch a 
eermon was never preached by a Popish priest in these 
latter ages of the world ; and as I told him, I thought 
lie had all the zeal, ail the knowledge, all the sincerity 
of a Christian, without the error of a Roman Catholic i 
and that I took him to be such a clergyman as the 
Roman bishops were before the Church of Rome 
assumed spiritual sovereignty o 



lo a word, he brought the poor woman to embrace 
the knowledge of Christ, and of redemption by Hira, 
not with wonder and astonishment only, as she did the 
first Dotiobs df a Ood, but with jOy and faith, with an 
affection, and a surprising degree of understanding, 
scarce to be imagined, much less to be expressed ; and 
31 her own request she was baptized. 

When he was preparing to baptize her, I entreated 
him that he would perform that olHcc with some caution, 
that the man might not perceive he was of the Roman 
Church, if possible, because of other ill consequences 
which might attend a difference among us in that very 
religion which we were instructing the other in. He 
cold me that as he had no consecrated chapel, no 
proper things for the olEce, I should see he would do 

. it in a manner that I should not know by it that he 
was a Roman Catholic myself if I had not known it 
before. And so he did ; for saying only some words 
over to himself in Latin, which I could not understand, 

t be poured a whole dishful o 



upon 



l6o ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

heady pronouncing in French very loud, **Mary/* — 
which was the name her husband desired me to give 
her, for I was her godfather — ** I baptize thee in the 
name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy 
Ghost ; '* so that none could know anything by it what 
religion he was of. He gave the benediction afterwards in 
Latin ; but either Will Atkins did not know but it was 
in French, or else did not take notice of it at that time. 

As soon as this was over, we married them ; and 
after the marriage was over, he turned himself to Will 
Atkins, and in a very affectionate manner exhorted him 
not only to persevere in that good disposition he was 
in, but to support the convictions that were upon him 
by a resolution to reform his life ; told him it was in 
vain to say he repented if he did not forsake his crimes ; 
represented to him how God had honoured him with 
being the instrument of bringing his wife to the know- 
ledge of the Christian religion, and that he should be 
careful he did not dishonour the grace of God ; and 
that if he did, he would see the heathen a better 
Christian than himself; the savage converted, and the 
instrument cast away. 

He said a great many good things to them both, and 
then recommending them, in a few words, to God's 
goodness, gave them the benediction again, I repeating 
everything to them in English, and thus ended the 
ceremony. I think it was tiie most pleasant, agreeable 
day to me that ever I passed in my whole life. 

But my clergyman had not done yet. His tho^hts 
hung continually upon the conversion of the seven and 
thirty savages, and fain he would have stayed upon the 
island to have undertaken it; but I convinced him, 
first, that his undertaking was impracticable in itself; 
and secondly, that, perhaps, I would put it into a way 
of being done, in his absence, to his satisfaction ; oi 
which by-and-by. 



■.ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



^^^■.AD^ 

^^Baving thus brought the affiiir of the island to a 
narrow compass, I was preparing to go on board the 
ship when the young man, whom I had taken out of 
the famished ship's company, came to me, and told me 
he underBtood I had a clergyman with me, and that 
T caused the Englishmen to be married lo the 
savages whom they called wives ; that he had a match 
too which he desired might be finished before I went, 
between two Christians, which he hoped would not be 
disagreeable to me. 

I knew this must be the young woman who was 
his mother's servant, for there was no other Christian 
woman on the island. So I began to persuade him 
not to do anything ot that kind rashly, or because he 
found himself in this solitary circumstance. I repre- 
sented to him that he had some considerable substance 
in the world, and good friends, as 1 understood by 
himself, and by his maid also ; that his maid was not 
only poor, and a servant, but was unequal to him, she 
being six or seven and twenty years old, and he 
not above seventeen or eighteen ; that he might very 
probably, with my assistance, make a remove from this 
wilderness, and come into his own country agi^io, and 
that then it would be a thousand to one but he would 
repent his choice, -And the dislike of that circumstance 
might be disadvantageous to both. I was going to 
ssy more, but he interrupted me, smiling, and told me, 
with a great deal of modesty, that I mistook in my 
guesses ; that he had nothing of that kind in his 
thoughts, his present circumstance being melancholy 
and disconsolate enough ; and he was very glad to hear 
that I had thoughts of putting them in a way to see 
their country again ; and nothing should have put 
I upon staying there but that the voyage I was 
IS so exceeding long and hazardous, and would 
n quite out of the reach of all his friends ; that 



1 62 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

he had nothing to desire of me but that I would setde 
him in some little property in the island where he was, 
give him a servant or two, and some few necessaries, 
and he would settle himself here like a planter, waiting 
the good time when, if ever I returned to England, I 
would redeem him, and hoped I would not be unmind- 
ful of him when I came into England ; that he would 
give me some letters to his friends in London, to let 
them know how good I had been to him, and in what 
part of the world, and what circumstance I had left 
him in ; that he promised me that whenever I redeemed 
him, the plantation, and all the improvement he had 
made upon it, let the value be what it would, should 
be wholly mine. 

His discourse was very prettily delivered consider- 
ing his youth, and was the more agreeable to me 
because he told me positively the match was not for 
himself. I gave him all possible assurances that, if 
I lived to come safe to England, I would deliver his 
letters, and do his business effectually, and that he 
might depend I would never forget the circumstance 
I had left him in. But still I was impatient to know 
who were the persons to be married ; upon which he 
told me it was my Jack-of-all-trades and his maid 
Susan. 

I was most agreeably surprised when he named the 
match, for indeed I thought it very suitable. The 
character of that man I have given already ; and as for 
the maid, she was a very honest, modest, sober, and 
religious young woman ; had a very good share of 
sense ; was agreeable enough in her person ; spoke 
very handsomely, and to the purpose; always with 
decency and good manners, and not backward to 
speak when anything required it, or impertinently 
forward to speak when it was not her business ; very 
handy and housewifely in anything that was before 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1 63 



excellent manager, and fit indeed to have been 
goTerness to the whole island. She knew very well 
how to behave to sll kind of folks she had about 
her, and to better if she had found any there. 

The match being proposed in this manner, 
married them the same day ; and as I was fether at 
the altar, aa I may auy, and gave her away, so I gave 
her 3 portion, for I appointed her and her husband a 
handsome large space of ground for their plantation ; 
and indeed this match, and the proposal the young 
gentleman made, to give him a small property in the 
island, put me upon parcelling it out amongst them, that 
they might not cjuarrel afterwards about their situation. 

This sharing out the land to them I left to Will 
Atkins, who indeed was now grown a most sober, grave, 
managing fellow, perfectly reformed, exceeding piouB 
and religious, and as far as I may be allowed to speak 
positively in such a case, I verily believe w:!s a true 
sincere penitent. 

He divided things 90 justly, and so much to every 
one's satisfaction, that they only desired one general 
writing under my hand for the whole, which I caused 
to be drawn up and signed and sealed to them, setting 
out the bounds and situation of every man's plantation, 
and testifying that I gave them thereby, severally, a , 
right to ^e whole possession and inheritance of the 
respective plantations or farms, with their improvements, 
to them and their heirs ; reserving all the rest of the 
island as my own property, and a certain rent for 
every particular plantation after eleven years, if I or 
any one from me, or in my name, came to demand it, 
producing an attested copy of the same writing. 

As to the government and laws among them, I told 
them I was not capable of giving them better rules i 
than they were able to give ihemaelves ; only made 
them promise me to live in love and good neighbour- [ 



l64 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON 

hood with one another i and so 1 prepared to leave 

One thing I must not omit, and this is, that being 
now settled in a kind of commonwealth among theoi' 
selves, and having much business in hand, it was but 
odd to have seven and thirty Indians live in a nook of 
the island, independent, and indeed unemployed ; for 
excepting the providing themselves food, which they 
had diificulty enough in too, sometimeH, they had no 
manner of business or property to manage. I proposed 
therefore to the governor Spaniard that he should go 
to them wilh Friday's father, and propose to them to 
remove, and either plant for themselves, or take them 
into their several families as servants, to he maintained 
for their labour, but without being absolute slaves ; for 
I would not admit them to make them slaves by force 
by any means, because they had their liberty given 
them by capitulation, and as it were, articles of sur- 
render, which they ought not to break. 

They most willingly embraced the proposal, and 
came al! very cheerfully along with him ; so we allotted 
them land and plantations, which three or four accepted 
of, but all the rest chose to be employed as servants in 
the several families we had settled ; and thus my colony 
was in a manner settled as follows : — The Spaniards 
possessed my original habitation, which was the capital 
city, and extended their plantations all along the side 
of the brook, which made the creek that I have so 
often described, as far as my bower ; and as they 
increased their culture, it went always eastward. The 
English lived in the north-east part, where Will 
Atkins and his comrades began, and came on south- 
ward and loutb-west, towards the back part of the 
Spaniards i and every plantation had a great addition 
of iiind to take in if they found occasion, ao that they 
need not jostle ooe anoUiet bt want of room. 



1 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. J 65 

AH the east end of the island was left uninhabited, 
that if any of the savages should come on shore there, 
only for their usual customary barbaritieB, they might 
come and go ; if they disturbed nobody, nobody would 
disturb them ; and no doubt but they were often ashore 
and went away again, for I never heard that the planters 
■were attacked or disturbed any more. 

It now came into my thoughts that I had hinted to 
my friend the clergyman that the work of converting 
the savages might perhaps be set on foot in his abacnce 
10 his satisfaction ; and I told him that row I thought 
it was put in a fair way, for the savages being thus 
divided among the Christians, if they would but every 
one of them do their part with those which came under 
their hands, I hoped it might have a very good effect. 

He agreed presently in thaL " If," said he, " they 
will do their part; but how," says he, "shall we 
obtain that of them !" I told hira we would call 
them together, and leave it in charge with them, 
or go to them one by one, which he thought beat. 
So we divided it — he to apeak to the Spaniards, who 
were all Papists, and I to the English, who were all 
Protestants j and we recommended it earnestly to 
them, snd made them promise that they never would 
make any distinction of Papist or Protestant in their 
exhorting the savages to turn Christians, but teach 
them the general knowledge of the true God, and 
of their Saviour Jesus Christ ; and they likewise pro- 
mised us that they would never have any differences or 
disputes one with another about religion. 

When I came to Will Atkins's house— I may 
call it so, for such a house, or such a piece of basket- 
work, I believe was not standing in the world again ; 
I say when I came there, I found the young woman 
I have mentioned above and Will Atkins's wife 
were become intimates ; and this prudent, religious 



1 66 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

young woman had perfected the work Will Atkins 
had begun ; and though it was not above four days 
after what I have related, yet the new-baptized savage 
woman was made such a Christian as I have seldom 
heard of any like her in all my observation or con- 
versation in the world. 

It came next into my mind in the morning, before I 
went to them, that amongst all the needful things I had 
to leave with them, I had not left them a Bible ; in 
which I showed myself less considering for them than 
my good friend the widow was for me, when she sent 
me the cargo of a hundred pounds from Lisbon, where 
she packed up three Bibles and a prayer-book. How- 
ever, the good woman's charity had a greater extent 
than ever she imagined, for they were reserved for the 
comfort and instruction of those that made much better 
use of them than I had done. 

I took one of the Bibles in my pocket ; and when 
I came to Will Atkins's tent, or house, and found 
the young woman and Atkins's baptized wife had been 
discoursing of religion together — for Will Atkins 
told it me with a great deal of joy — I asked if they 
were together now, and he said yes. So I went into 
the house, and he with me, and we found them to- 
gether, very earnest in discourse. " O sir," says Will 
Atkins, "when God has sinners to reconcile to Him- 
self, and aliens to bring home. He never wants a 
messenger ; my wife has got a new instructor — I knew 
I was unworthy, as I was incapable of that work — ^that 
young woman has been sent hither from heaven — she 
is enough to convert a whole island of savages." The 
young woman blushed, and rose up to go away, but 
I desired her to sit still. I told her she had a good 
work upon her hands, and I hoped God would bless 
her in it. 

We talked a little, and I did not perceive they had 



at ^^H 

both I 



t&WEMT0SK3 OF kOBINSOS CSUSOB. 

any book amoDg them, though I did not ask j 
put my hand in my pocket and pulled out my 
" Here," saye I to Atkins, " I have brought you 
aaaistant that perhaps you had not before." The n 
was so confounded, that he was rot able to Rpeak 
some time ; but recovering himself, he takes it with both 
his haods, and turning to his wife, " Heie, my dear," 
says he, " did not I tell you our God, though He 
Uycb above, could hear what we said ? Here's the 
book I prayed for when you and I kneeled down under 
the bush ; now God has heard ua, and sent it." 
When he had said so, the man fell into such transports 
of a passionate joy, that between the joy of having it, 
and giving God thanks for it, the tears ran down his 
fece like a child that was crying. 

The woman was surprised, and was like to have run 
into a mistake that none of us were aware of; for she 
firmly believed God had sent the book upon her hus- 
tand s petition. It is true that providentially it was so, 
and. might be taken so in a consequent sense ; but I 
believe it would have been no difficult matter at that 
time to have persuaded the poor wo man to have 
believed that an express mt'saenger came from heaven 
on purpose to bring that individual book. But it was 
too serious a matter to suffer any delusion to take 
place; so I turned I o ihe young woman, and told her 
we did not desire to impose upon the new convert in 
her first and more ignorant understanding of things, 
and begged her to explain to her that God may be 
Tery properly said to answer our petitions when in the 
course of His providence such things are in a parti- 
cular manner brought to pass as we petitioned for ; but 
we do not expect returns from heaven in a miraculous 
and particular manner ; and that it is our mercy that it 

the young woman did afterwards effectually j ^^^H 



l68 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBUSOI 



1 

craH via ^ 



f(o that there was, I assure yoQ, no prieatcra 
here ; and I should have thought it one of the n 
unjualiliable frauds in the world to have had it 80. But 
the surprise of joy upon Will Atkins is really not to 
be expressed ; and there we may be sure there was no 
I delusion. Sure no man was ever more thankful in the 

world for anything of its kind than he was for his 
I Bible ; nor, I believe, never any man was glad of a 

Bible from a better principle. And though he bad been 
a most profligate creature, desperate, headstrong, out- 
I rageous, furious, and wicked to a great degree, yet this 

I man is a sUnding rule to us all for the well instnictinE 

children, viz., that parents should never give over to 
I teach and instruct, or ever despair of the success of 

I their endeavours, let the children be ever so obstinate, 

I refractory, or to appearance insensible of instrucuon ; 

for if ever God in His providence touches the con- 
I sciences of such, the force of their education returns 

I upon them, and the early instructian of parents is not 

I tost, though it may have been many years laid asleep, but 

some time or other they may find the benefit of it. 
L Thus it was with this poor man ; however igDoraot 

^^^_ he was, or divested of religion and Christian knowledge) 
^^^^L he found he had some to do with now more ignorant 
^^^^1 than himself, and that the least part of the instruction 
^^^^P of his good father that could now come to his tniod 
^^^^ was of use to him. 

Among the rest it occurred to him, he said, bow 
his father used to insist much upon the inexpressible 
value of the Bible, the privilege and blessing of it to 
nations, families, and persons ; but he never entertained 
the least notion of the worth of it till now, when being 
to talk to heathens, savages, and barbarians, he wanted 
the help of the written oracle for his assisunce. 

The young woman was very glad of it also for the 
present occasion, though she had one, and so had the 




ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1 69 

youth, on board our ahip among their goods, which 
were not yet brought on ahore. And now, having 
said 80 many thinge of this young woman, I cannot 
omit telling one story more of her and myself, which 
has something in it very informing and remarkable. 

I haye related to what extremity the poor young 
woman was reduced ; how her mistress was starved to 
death, and did die on board that unhappy ship we met 
at aea ; and how the whole ship's company being reduced 
to the last extremity, the gentlewoman and her son, and 
this m:ud, were first hardly used as to provisions, and at 
last totally neglected and starved ; that is to say, brought 
to the last extremity of hunger. 

One day being discoursing with her upon the ex- 
tremities they suffered, I asked her if she could describe 
by what she had felt what it was to starve, and how it 
appeared ? She told me she believed she could, and 
she told her tale very distinctly thus : — 

" First, sir, " said she, " we had for some days fared 
exceeding hard, and suffered Very great hunger, but now 
at last we were wholly without food of any kind except 
sugar, and a litde wine, and a little water. The first 
day after I had received no food at all, I found myself 
towards evening first empty and sickifth at ray stomach, 
sod Bearer night mightily inclined to yawning, and 
sleepy. I laid down on a couch in the great cabin to 
sleep, and slept about three hours, and awaked a little 
refreshed, having taken a glass of wine when I lay down. 
After being about three hours awake, it being about 
five o'clock in the morning, I found myself empty, and 
iny stomach sickish, and laid down again, but could 
not sleep at all, being very faint and ill ; and thus I 
continued all the second day, with a strange variety — 
£nc hungry, then sick again, with teachings to vomit. 
The second night, being obliged to go to bed again 
without any food more than a draught of fair water, aad 



170 ADVENTURSS OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

being asleep, I dreamed I was at Barbadoes, and that 
the market was mightily stocked with provisions, that 
I bought some for my mistress, and went and dined very 
heartily. 

** I thought my stomach was as full after this as any 
would have been after or at a good dinner ; but when 
I waked, I was exceedingly sunk in my spirits to find 
myself in the extremity of famine. The last glass of 
wine we had I drank, and put sugar in it, because of its 
having some spirit to supply nourishment; but there 
being no substance in the stomach for the digesting 
office to work upon, I found the only effect of the wine 
was to raise disagreeable fumes from the stomach into 
the head ; and I lay, as they told me, stupid and sense- 
less, as one drunk, for some time. 

<< The third day, in the morning, after a night of 
strange and confused inconsistent dreams, and rather 
dozing than sleeping, I waked, ravenous and furious 
with hunger ; and I question, had not my understand- 
ing returned and conquered it, I say, I question whether, 
if I had been a mother, and had had a little child with 
me, its life would have been safe or not. This lasted 
about three hours, during which time I was twice raging 
mad as any creature in Bedlam, as my young master 
told me, and as he can now inform you. 

" In one of these fits of lunacy or distraction, 
whether by the motion of the ship or some slip of my 
foot I know not, I fell down, and struck my face 
against the corner of a pallet bed, in which my mistress 
lay, and with the blow the blood gushed out of my 
nose, and the cabin-boy bringing me a little basin, I sat 
down and bled into it a great deal, and as the blood ran 
from me I came to myself, and the violence of the 
flame or the fever I was in abated, and so did the ravenous 
part of the hunger. 

" Then I grew sick and reached to vomit, but could 



ADVENTURES ( 



I CRUSOE. 



Dot, for I had nothing in my stomach to bring up. 
After I had bled some time I swooned, and they all 
believed I was dead ; but I came to myself soon after, 
ud then had a most dreadful pain in my stomach, not 
to be described, not like the colic, but a gnawing, eager 
pain for tbod ; and towards night it went off with a 
kind of earnest wishing or longing for food, something 
like, aa I suppose, the longing of a woman with child. 
I took another draught of water with sugar in it, but 
ttty atofflach loathed the sugar, and brought it all up 
l^in ; then I took a draught of water without sugar, 
ind that stayed with me, and I laid me down upon the 
xd, praying most heartily that it would please God to 
ake me away j and composing my mind in hopes of it, 
[ slumbered awhile } and then waking, thought myself 
iyiog, being light with rapoura from an empty stomach. 
E recommended my soul then to God, and earnestly 
urishcd that somebody would throw me into the aea. 

" All this while my mistreaa lay by me just, as I 
ihought, expiring, but bore it with much more patience 
han I, and gave the last bit of bread she had left to 
her child, my young master, who would not have taken 
it, but she obliged him to eat it; and I believe it saved 
bis life. 

" Towards the morning I slept again, and first when 
I awaked I fell into a violent psaion of crying, and 
liter that had a second fit of violent hunger. I got up 
lavenoua, and in a moat dreadful condition. Had my 
Inistresa been dead, as much as I loved her t am 
Eertain I should have eaten a piece of her flesh with 
U much relish, and as unconcerned, as ever I did the 
Besh of any creature appointed for food ; and once or 
Wrice I was going to bite my own arm. At last I saw 
he basin in which was tlie blood I had bled at my 
late the day before. I ran to it, and swallowed it with 
nch haste, and such a greedy appetite, as if I had 



172 Al>VtCNTt;R£S OF ROBIKSOK CRtTSOS. 

wondered nobody had taken it before, and afraid it 
would be taken from me now. 

<< Though after it was down the thoughts of it filled 
me with horror, yet it checked the fit of hunger, and I 
drank a draught of fair water, and was composed and 
refreshed for some hours after it. This was the fourth 
day; and thus I held it till towards night, wheo, 
within the compass of three hours, I had all these 
several circumstances over again, one after another, 
viz., sick, sleepy, eagerly hungry, pain in the stomach, 
then ravenous again, then sick again, then lunatic, then 
crying, then ravenous again, and so every quarter of an 
hour ; and my strength wasted exceedingly. At night 
I laid me down, having no comfort but in the hope 
that I should die before morning. 

** All this night I had no sleep ; but the hunger vat 
now turned into a disease, and I had a terrible colk 
and griping, by wind instead of food having found its 
way into the bowels ; and in this condition I lay till 
morning, when I was surprised a little with the cries 
and lamentations of my young master, who called oat 
to me that his mother was dead. I lifted myself up a 
little, for I had not strength to rise, but found she was 
not dead, though she was able to give very little ngns 
of life. 

**I had then such convulsions in my stomach for 
want of some sustenance, that I cannot describe, widi 
such frequent throes and pangs of appetite that nothing 
but the tortures of death can imitate ; and in this 
condition I was when I heard the seamen above cry 
out ^ A sail ! a sail ! * and halloo and jump about as u 
they were distracted. 

^* I was not able to get off from the bed, and my 
mistress much less, and my young master was so sick 
that I thought he had been expiring ; so we could not 
open the cabin-door, or get any account what it was 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



175 



that occaaioned auch a combustion ; nor had we had 
any cooTeraaUon with the ship's company for two days, 
Ihey having told ua thai they had cot a mouthful of 
anything to eat in the ship ; and they told ub after- 
wards they thought we had been dead. 

" It was this dreadful condition we were in when you 
were sent to save our lives ; and how you found ui, 
ix, you know as well as I, and better too." 

ThiB was her own relation, and is auch a distinct 
account of ^carving to death aa I confess I never met 
with, and was exceeding entertaining to me. I am the 
rather apt to believe it to be a true account, because the 

foath gave me an account of a good part of it ; though 
must own not so distinct and so feelingly aa his maid, 
end the rather because it seems his mother fed him at 
the price of her own life ; but the poor maid, though 
.her constitution being stronger than that of her mistress, 
who was in years, and a weakly woman too, she might 
struggle harder with it ; I say, the poor maid might be 
aupposed to feel the extremity something sooner than 
her miatress, who might be allowed to keep the last 
Int something longer than she parted with any to 
relieve the maid. No question, as the case is here 
related, if our ship, or some other, had not so provi- 
dentially met them, a few days more would have ended 
all their lives, unless they had prevented it by eating 
one another ; and even that, as their case stood, would 
have served them but a little while, they being five 
hundred leagues from any land, or any possibility of 
relief, other than in the miraculous manner it happened. 
But this ia by the way ; I return to my diaposiuoo of 
things among the people. 

And first, it is to be observed here, that for many 
reasons I did not think fit to let them know anything 
of the sloop I had framed, and which I thought of 




ast^^H 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBl 



Ktciog Up anwng them ; for I found, at Jeast 
comiogiBuch Keds of divisioas among them, that I nv 
it plainly had I aet up the sloop, and left 
them, they would, upon every light disgust, have Kpa- 
raied, and gone away from ODe another { or pcrh^ 
have turned pirates, and so made the island a dra of 
thieves, instead of a plantation of sober and religicm 
people, so as I intended it ; nor did I leave the mt 
pieces of brass cannon that I had on board, or the two 
' ;c!t guns that my nephew took extraordiitiril}', 
son. I thought it was enougb B> 
quality them for a defensive war against any that sbouli 
invade them, but not to set them up for an offensit^ 
war, or to encourage them to go abroad to attack othen,i 
which, in the end, would only bring rutn and deBtrucdoq 
upon themselves and all their undertaking, 
the sloop, therefore, and the guns for their serrlce 
another way, as I'shaU observe in its place. 

I have now done with the island. I left them sU 
good circumstances, and in a flourishing conditioa, and 
went on board my ship again the [^fifth day] of ^May]) 
having been live and twenty days among them ; and ai 
they were all resolved to stay upon the island till I 
came to remove them, I promised to send some fart' 
relief from the Brazils, if I could posaibiy find 
opportunity ; and particularly, I promised to bc 
:tle, such aa sheep, hogs, and cows ; for 
'8 and calves which I brought from I 
we had been obliged, by the length of our voyage, 
kill them at sea for want of hay to feed them. 
The next day, giving them a salute of five 
, we set sail, and arrived at the Bay ot 
in the Brazils, in about twenty-two ( 
meeting nothing remarkable in our passage but this, 
about three days after we sailed, being becalmed, 




ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 175 

the currem setting strong to the E.N.E,, ruaDiDg, as it 
were, into a bay or gulf on the land side, we were 
driven something out of our course j and once or twice 
onr men cried land to the eastward ; but whether it waa 
the continent, or islands, we could not tell by any means. 

But the third day, towards evening, the sea smooth 
and the weather calm, we saw the sea, as it were 
corered towards the land with something very black; 
nOl brang able to discover what it was till, after some 
time, our chief mate going up the main shrouds a little 
way, and looking at them with a perspective, cried out 
it was an army. I could not imagine what he meant 
by an army, and spoke a little hastily, calling the fellow a 
fool, or some such word. " Nay, sir," says he, " don't 
be angry, for 'tis an army, and a fleet too } for I believe 
there are a thousand canoes, and you may see them paddle 
along, and they are coming towards ua too, apace." 

I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so was my 
nephew, the captain ; for he had heard such terrible 
stories of them in the island, and having never been in 
those seas before, that he could not tell what to think 
of it, but said two or three times we should all be 
devoured. I must confess, considering we were be- 
calmed, and the current set strong towards tlie shore, 
I liked it die worse. However, I bade him not be 
afraid, but bring the ship to an anchor as soon as we 
came so near to know that we must engage them. 

The weather continued calm, and they came on 
apace towards us ; so I gave order to come to an 
anchor, and furl a!l our sails. As for the savages, I 
told them they had nothing to fear but fire j and there- 
fore they should get their boats out, and fasten them, 
one close by the head, and the other by the stern, and 
man them both well, and wait the issue in that posture. 
This I did, that the men in the boats might be ready, 
with skee ti and buckets, to put out any fire these savages 



176 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

might endeavour to fix to the outside of the ship. In 
this posture we lay by for them, and in a little 
while they came up with us ; but never was such a 
horrid sight seen by Christians. My mate was much 
mistaken in his calculation of their number, I mean of 
a thousand canoes, the most we could make of them 
when they came up being about a hundred and six and 
twenty ; and a great many of them too ; for some of 
them had sixteen or seventeen men in them, and some 
more, and the least six or seven. 

When they came nearer to us they seemed to be 
struck with wonder and astonishment, as at a sight 
which they had, doubtless, never seen before ; nor could 
they at first, as we afterwards understood, know what 
to make of us. They came boldly up, however, very 
near to us, and seemed to go about to row round us; 
but we called to our men in the boats not to let them 
come too near them. 

This very order brought us to an engagement with 
them, without our designing it; for five or six of 
their large canoes came so near our longboat, that our 
men beckoned with their hands to them to keep back, 
which they understood very well, and went back ; but 
at their retreat about fifty arrows came on board us from 
those boats, and one of our men in the longboat was 
very much wounded. 

However, I called to them not to fire by any 
means; but we handed down some deal boards into 
the boat, and the carpenters presently set up a kind of 
fence, like waist boards, to cover them from the arrows 
of the savages, if they should shoot again. 

About half-an-hour afterwards they came all up in 
a body astern of us, and pretty near us, so near that we 
could easily discern what they were, though we could 
not tell their design ; and I easily found they were some 
of my old friends, the same sort of savages that I had 



ADVENTURES < 



■ 77 



been used lo engage with ; and in a litUe time more 
they rowed a little farther out to sea, till they came 
directly broadside with us, and then rowed down 
straight upon us, tiJI they came so near, that they 
could hear us speak. Upon this I ordered all my 
to keep close, lest they should shoot any more 
vt, and made all our guns ready j but being so 
as to be within hearing, I made Friday go out upon 
the deck and call out aloud to them in his language 
to know what they meant, which accordingly he did. 
Whether they understood him or not, that I luiew not ; 
but as soon as he had called to them, six of them, 
who were in the foremost or oighest boat to ua, turned 
their canoes from us, and stooping down, showed us 
their naked backsides; just as if, in English, saving 

your presence, tljey had bid us kiss . Whether 

this was a defiance or challenge, we know not ; or 
whether it was done in mere contempt, or as a signal 
to the rest; but immediately Friday cried out they 
were going to sliool; and uohiippily for him, pour 
fellow, they let fly about three hundred of their 
arrows, and lo my inexpressible grief killed poor 
Friday, no other man being in their sight. The poor 
iellow was shot with no less than three arrows, and 
about three more fell very near him ; such unlucky 
marksmeo they were. 

I was so enraged with the loss of my old servant, 
the companion of all my sorrows and solitudes, that I 
inraediately ordered five guns to be loaded with small 
fihoC, and four with great, and gave them such a broad- 
■Bide as they had never heard in their lives before, to 
fce sure. They were not- above half a cable length 
ofF when we fired ; and our gunners took their aim 
■o well, that three or four of their canoes were overset, 



1 



ThcUl 



n to belie' 



,byo 



shot only. 



of turning up their bare backsides 



178 ADVENTURES OF 

to us, gave us no great offence ; neither did I know 
for certain whether that, which would pass for tht 
greatest contempt among ue, might be underitood n 
by them or not ; therefore in return I had only re- 
solved to have fired four or five guns at them with 
powder only, which I knew would fright them sulG- 
ciendy ; but when they shot at us directly with all the 
fiirytheywcre capable of,andespeciallyaB they had killed 
my poor Friday, whom I so entirely loved and valued, 
and who, indeed, ao well deserved it, I not only had 
been justified before God and man, but would Hstc 
been very glad, if I could, to have overset every c; 
there, and drowned every one of them. 

I can neither tell how many we killed, or how n 
we wounded, at this broadside ; but sure such a fr 
and hurry never was seen among such a multitude, 
There were thirteen or fourteen of their canoes split 
and overset, in all, and the men all set a-swimming; 
the rest, frighted out of their wits, scoured away ai 
fast as they could, taking but Ydtle care to save thoK 
whose boats were split or spoiled with our shot. So I 
suppose that they were many of them lost ; and our 
men took one poor fellow swimming for his life 
above an hour after they were all gone. 

Our small shot from our cannon must needs kill and 
wound a great many ; but, in short, we never knew 
anything how it went with them ; for they fled so 
fast, that in three hours, or thereabouts, we could n 
see above three or four straggling canoes ; nor did ^ 
ever see the rest any more ; for a breeze of wind 
springing up the same evening, we weighed and set sail 
for the Brazils. 

We had a prisoner indeed, but the 
sullen, that he would neither eat or speak ; and we all 
&ncied he would starve himself to death. But I look 
■ Vay to cure him ; for 1 made them take liim and 



ADVENTURES OF KORINSON CRUSOE. 1 79 

turn him into the longboat, and made him believe 
they would toss him into the sea agitin, aad bo leave 
him where they found him if he would not speak. Nor 
would that do ; but they really did throw him into the 
Hea, and came away from him ; and then he followed 
them, for he swam like a cork, and called to them ia 
hia tongue, though they knew not one word of what he 
said. However, at last they took him in again, and 
then he began to be more tractable ; nor did I ever 
design they should drown him. 

We were now under sail again ; but I was the most 
disconsolate creature alive, for want of my man Friday, 
and would have been very glad to have gone back to 
the island to have taken one of the rest from thence 
for my occasion, but it could not be ; so we went on. 
We had one prisoner, as I have said ; and 'twas a 
long while before wc could make him understand any- 
thing i but in time our men taught him some English, 
and he began to be a little tractable. Afterwards we 
inquired what country he came Bom, but could make 
nothing of what he said ; for his speech was bo odd, 
all gutturals, and spoke in the throat in such a hollow 
odd manner, that we could never form a word 
from him ; and we were all of opinion that they might 
speak that language as well if they were gagged as 
otherwise ; nor could we perceive that they had any 
occasion either for teeth, tongue, lips, or palate, but 
formed iheir words just as a hunting-horn forms a tune 
with an open throat He told us, however, some time 
after, when we taught him to speak a little English, 
that they were going, with their kings, to fight a great 
battle. When he said kings, we asked him how 
many kings J He said they were live nation (we 
eould not make him understand the plural /), and that 
they all joined to go ag^nst two nation. We asked 
lum what made them come up to us ! He said, " To 



l8o ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

makee to great wonder look." Where it is to be 
observed, diat all those natives, as also those of Africa, 
when they learn English, they always add two ^'s at 
the end of the words where we use one, and ibake 
the accent upon them, as makee^ takee^ and the like; 
and we could not break them off it; nay, I could 
hardly make Friday leave it off, though at last 
he did. 

And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must 
take my last leave of him, poor honest Friday ! We 
buried him with all the decency and solemnity possible, 
by putting him into a cofHn, and throwing him into the 
sea ; and I caused them to fire eleven guns for him ; 
and so ended the life of the most grateful, faithful, 
honest, and most affectionate servant that ever man 
had. 

We went now away with a fair wind for Brazil, and 
in about twelve days' time we made land in the lati- 
tude of five degrees south of the line, being the north- 
easternmost land of all that part of America. We 
kept on S. by E. in sight of the shore four days, when 
we made Cape St Augustine, and in three days came 
to an anchor off of the Bay of All Saints, the old place 
of my deliverance, from whence came both my good 
and evil fate. 

Never ship came to this part that had less business 
than I had, and yet it was with great difficulty that we 
were admitted to hold the least correspondence on 
shore. Not my planter himself, who was alive, and 
made a great figure among them, not my two merchant 
trustees, not the fame of my wonderful preservation in 
that island, could obtain me that favour ; but my partner 
remembering that I had given five hundred moidores 
to the prior of the monastery of the Augustines, and 
two hundred and seventy-two to the poor, went to 
the monastery, and obliged the prior that then was ta 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. iSl 

go to the governor and get leave for me personally, 
with the captain and one more, besides eight seamen, 
to come OD shore, and no more ; and this upon condi- 
tion abaoluteiy capitukted for, that we should not offer 
to land any goods out of the ship, or to carry any 
person away without licence. 

They were so Gtrict with ua as to landing any goods, 
that it was with extreme difficulty that I got on shore 
three bales of English goods, such as line broadcloths, 
stuffs, aud some linen, which I had brought for a pre- 
sent to my partner. 

He was a very generous, broad-hearted man, though, 
like me, he came from little at first ; and though he 
knew not that I had the least design of giving him 
anything, he sent me on board a present of fresh pro- 
viaiona, wine, and aweetmeata, worth above thirty moi- 
dores, including some tobacco, and three or four fine 
medals in gold. But I visa even with him in my present, 
which, 38 I have said, consisted of fine broadcloth, Eng- 
lish stuffs, hct, and line hollaada. Also I delivered 
him about the value of i^ioo sterling, in the same goods, 
for other uses ; and I obliged him to set up the sloop 
-which I had brought with me from lingland.as I have 
said, for the use of my colony, in order to send the 
refreshments I intended to my plantation. 

Accordingly he got hands, and finished the sloop in 
a Tcry few daya, for she was ready framed ; and I gave 
the master of her such instructions as he could not roisa 
the place ; nor did he miss them, as I had an account 
from my partner afterwards. I got him soon loaded 
with the small cargo I sent them ; and one of our aea- 
nien, that had been on shore with me there, offered to 
go with the sloop, and settle there, upon my letter to 
the governor Spaniard, to allot him a sufficient quantity 
of land for a plantation ; and giving him some clothes, 
snd tools for tiia planting work, which he said he under- 



1 



AUVENTURES C 



BINSON CRUSOE, 



t Maryland, and a 



182 



stood, having been an old pLiD 
buccaneer inio the bargain. 

I encouraged the fellow by granting all he deaired; 
and as an addition, I gave him the savage which v 
had taken prisoner of war to be hia slave, and ordered 
ihe governor Spaniard to give hira his share of every- 
thing he wanted, with the rest 

When we came to fit this man out, my old partoH 
told me there was a certain very honest fellow, a Brazil 
planter of his acquaintance, who had fallen into the dis- 
pleasure of the Church. " I know not what the matter 
la with him," says he, " but, on my conscience, I think 
he is a heretic in his heart, and he has been obliged to 
conceal himself for fear of the Inquisition ; " that lie 
would be very glad of such an opportunity to make his 
escape with his wife and two daughters ; and if I woold 
let them go to the island, and allot them a plantation, be 
would give them a small stock to begin with ; for the 
officers of the loquisitioo had seized all his eflecta and 
estate, and he had nothing left but a little household 
stuif, and two slaves. " And," adds he, " though I hale 
his principles, yet I would not have him fall into their 
hands, for he would assuredly be burnt alive if he does." 

I granted this presently, and joined ray Englishman 
with them ; nnd we concealed the man and his wit' 
and daughters on board our ship, till the sloop put ou 
to go to sea ; and then, having put all their goods o: 
board the sloop some time before, we put them on board 
the sloop after he was got out of the bay. 

Our seaman was mightily pleased with Uiia 
partner ; and their stock, indeed, was much alike, rich 
m tools, in preparations, and a farm i b-it nothing to 
be^n with, but as above. However, they carried over 
with them, which was worth all the rest, some materials 
for planting eugtir-canes, with some plai 
which he,I mean the Portugal man, understood very well. 




ADVENTURES OF 

Among the rest of the supplies sent my tenants in 
the island, 1 sent them by their sloop three milch cows 
and five calves, about twenty-two hogs, among them 
three sows big with pig, two mares, and a stane- 
horee. 

For my Spaniards, according to ray promise, I en- 
gaged three Portugal women to go ; and recommended 
it to them to marry them, and use them kindly. I 
COiJd have procured more women, but I remembered 
that the poor persecuted man had two daughters, 
and there was but live of the Spaniards that wanted ; 
the rest had wives of their own, though in another 
country. 

All this cargo arrived eafe, and, as you may easily 
suppose, very welcome to my old inhabitants, who were 
DOW, with this addition, between sixty and seventy 
people, besides little children, of which there was a 
great many. I found letters at London from them all, 
by the way of Lisbon, when I came back to England, 
of which I shall also take some notice immediately. 

X have now done with my island, and all manner of 
discourse about it ; and whoever reads the rest of my 
memorandums, would do well to turn his thoughts 
entirely from it, and expect to read of the follies 
of an old man, not warned by his own harms, much 
leas by those of other men, to beware of the like ; not 
cooled by almost forty years' misery and disappoint- 
ments, not satisSed with prosperity beyond expec- 
tation, not made cautious by affliction and distress 
beyond imitation. 

I had no more business to go to the East Indies 
than a man at full liberty, and having committed no 
crime, has to go to the turnkey at Newgate and desire 
him to lock, him up among the prisoners there and 
ctsrve him. Had I taken a small vessel from England, 
and went directly to the island ; had I loaded her, as 



184 ADVENTURSS OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

I did the other yessel, with all the necessaries for the 
plantation, and for my people ; took a patent from the 
governor here to have secured my property, in sub- 
jection only to that of England ; had I carried over 
cannon and ammunition, servants and people, to plant, 
and taking possession of the place, fortified and 
strengthened it in the name of England, and increased 
it with people, as I might easily have done; had I 
then settled myself there, and sent the ship back 
loaden with good rice, as I might also have done in 
six months' time, and ordered my friends to have fitted 
her out again for our supply; had I done this, and 
stayed there myself, I had at least acted like a man of 
common-sense. But I was possessed with a wandering 
spirit, scorned all advantages ; I pleased myself with 
being the patron of those people I placed there, 
and doing for them in a kind of haughty majestic way, 
like an old patriarchal monarch ; providing for them, 
as if I had been father of the whole family, as well as 
of the plantation. But I never so much as pretended to 
plant in the name of any government or nation, or to 
acknowledge any prince, or to call my people subjects 
to any one nation more than another ; nay, I never so 
much as gave the place a name, but left it as I foimd 
it, belonging to no man, and the people under no 
discipline or government but my own, who, though I 
had influence over them as father and benefactor, 
had no authority or power to act or command one way 
or other, farther than voluntary consent moved them to 
comply. Yet even this, had I stayed there, would have 
done well enough ; but as I rambled from them, and 
came there no more, the last letters I had from any 
of them was by my partner's means, who afterwards 
sent another sloop to the place, and who sent me 
word, though I had not the letter till five years after 
it was written, that they went on but poorly ; were 



ADVENTUHES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1S5 

malcooteot with their loag stay there ; chat Will 
Alkina was dead ; that five of the S]ianiards were 
come away 5 and that though they had not been much 
molested by the savages, yet they had had some 
skirmishes with them ; and that they begged of him 
to write to me to tliink of the promise I had made 1 
to fetch them away, tliat they might aee their own ' 
country agaio before they died. 

But I was gone a wild-goose chase indeed, and 
they that will have any more of me must be content 
to follow me through a new variety of follies, hard- 
ships, and wild adventures j wherein the justice of 
Providence may be duly observed, and we may aee 
bow easily Heaven can gorge us with our own desires, 
make the strongest of our wishes be our affliction, and 
punish us most severely with those very things which 
we think it would be our utmost happiness to be 
allowed in. 

Let no wise mac flatter himself with the strength of 
his own judgment, as if hf^ was able to choose any par* 
ticular station of life for himself. Man is a short-sighted 
creature, sees but a vei'y little way before him ; and as 
his passions are none of his best friends, so his particular 
adectioos are generally his worst counsellors. 

I say thia with respect to the impetuous desii'e I had 
from a youth to waader into the world, and how evident ' 
it now was that this principle was preserved in mc 
my punishment. How it came on, the manner, the 
circumstance, and the coaclusion of it, it is easy to give 
youhistoiically, and with its utmost variety of particulars; 
but the secret ends of Divine Power in thus permitting 
us to be Iiurried down the stream of our own desires, 
is only to be understood of those who can listen to the 
»oice of Providence, and draw religious consequences 
from God's justice and their own mistakes. 

fie it I had business, or no business, away I went. 



1 86 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

'Tis no time now to enlarge any farther upon the 
reason or absurdity of my own conduct ; but to come 
to the history. I was embarked for the voyage, and 
the voyage I went. 

I should only add here, that my honest and truly pious 
clergyman left me here ; a ship being ready to go to 
Lisbon, he asked me leave to go thither, being still, 
as he observed, bound never to finish any voyage he 
began. How happy had it been for me if I had gone 
with him ! 

But it was too late now ; all things Heaven appoints 
are best. Had I gone with him, I had never had so 
many things to be thankfiil for, and you had never 
heard of the Second Part of the Travels and Adven- 
tures of Robinson Crusoe ; so I must leave here the 
fruitless exclaiming at myself, and go on with my 
voyage. 

From the Brazils we made directly away over the 
Atlantic sea to the Cape de Bonne Esperance, or, as 
we call it, the Cape of Good Hope ; and had a tolerable 
good voyage, our course generally south-east ; now and 
then a storm, and some contrary winds. But my 
disasters at sea were at an end ; my future rubs and 
cross events were to befall me on shore, that it might 
appear the land was as well prepared to be our scourge 
as the sea, when Heaven, who directs the circumstances 
of things, pleases to appoint it to be so. 

Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a super- 
cargo on board, who was to direct all her motions after 
she arrived at the Cape ; only being limited to certain 
numbers of days for stay, by charter-party, at the several 
ports she was to go to. This was none of my busi- 
ness, neither did I meddle with it at all ; my nephew 
the captain, and the supercargo, adjusting all those 
things between them as they thought fit. 

We made no stay at the Cape longer than was 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 187 

needful to take in fresh water, but made the best of our 
way for the coast of Coromandel, We were indeed 
informed that a Freoch man-of-war of fifty guns and 
two large merchant ships were gone for the Indies ; 
and aa I knew we were at war with France, I had 
some apprehensions of them ; but they went their way, 
and we heard no more of them. 

I ahall not pester my account, or the reader, with 
descriptions of places, journals of our voyages, varia- 
dons of the compass, latitudes, meridian distances, 
trade winds, situation of pons, and the like ; such as 
almost all the histories of long navigation are full of, 
and makes the reading tiresome enough, and are 
perfectly unprofitable to all that read it, except only 
to those who are to go to those places themselves. 

It is enough to name the ports and places which we 
touched at, and what occurred to us upon our passing 
from one to another. We touched first at the island 
of Madagascar, where, though the people are fierce 
aod treacherous, and, in particular, very well armed 
with lances and bows, which they use with iucnnceiT- 
able dexterity, yet we iared very well with them a 
while; they treated us very civilly j and for some 
trifles which we gave them, such aa knives, scissors, 
&c., they brought us eleven good fat bullocks, middling 
in size, but very good in flesh, which we took in, 
partly for fresh provisions for our present spending, 
and the rest to salt for the ship's use. 

We were obliged to stay here some time after 
we had fiirniahed ourselves v/ith provisions ; and I, 
that was always too curious to look into every nook of 
the world wherever I came, w^es for going on shore aa 
fast aa I cotdd. It was on the east side of the island 
that we went on shore one evening, and the people, 
who by the way are very numerous, came thronging 
about UB, and stood gazing at us at a distance ; but as 



1 88 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

we had traded freely with them, and had been kindly 
used, we thought ourselves in no danger. But when 
we saw the people, we cut three boughs out of a tree, 
and stuck them up at a distance from us, which it 
seems is a mark in the country not only of truce and 
friendship, but when it is accepted the other side set 
up three poles or boughs, which is a signal that 
they accept the truce too ; but then this is a known 
condition of the truce, that you are not to pass between 
their three poles towards them, nor they to come past 
your three poles or boughs towards you ; so that you 
are perfectly secure within the three poles, and all the 
space between your poles and theirs is allowed like 
a market for free converse, traffic, and commerce. 
When you go there, you must not carry your weapons 
with you ; and if they come into that space, they stick 
up their javelins and lances, all at the first poles, and 
come on unarmed ; but if any violence is offered diem, 
and the truce thereby broken, away they run to the 
poles and lay hold of their weapons, and then the truce 
is at an end. 

It happened one evening when we went on shore 
that a greater number of their people came down than 
usual, but all was very friendly and civil, and they 
brought in several kinds of provisions, for which we 
satisfied them with such toys as we had ; their women 
also brought us milk and roots, and several things very 
acceptable to us, and all was quiet ; and we made us a 
little tent or hut, of some boughs of trees, and lay on 
shore all night. 

I knew not what was the occasion, but I was not so 
well satisfied to lie on shore as the rest ; and the boat 
lying at an anchor about a stone cast from the land, 
with two men in her to take care of her, I made one 
of them come on shore, and getting some boughs of 
trees to cover us also in the boat, I spread the sail on 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1 89 

the bottom of the boat, and lay under the cover of the 
branches of trees all night in the boat. 

About two o'clock in the morning we heard one of 
our men make a terrible noise on the shore, calling out 
for God's sake to bring the boat in, and come and 
help them, for they were all like to be murdered ; at 
the same time I heard the firing of five muskets, which 
was the number of the guns they had, and that three 
times over ; for it seems the natives here were not so 
easily ^ghted with guns as the savages were in America, 
where I had to do with them. 

All this while I knew not what was the matter ; but 
rousing immediately from sleep with the noise, I caused 
the boat to be thrust in, and resolved, with three fusils 
we had on board, to land and assist our men. 

We got the boat soon to the shore, but our men 
were in too much haste ; for being come to the shore, 
they plunged into the water to get to the boat with all 
the expedition they could, being pursued by between 
three and four hundred men. Our men were but 
nine in all, and only five of them had fusils with them ; 
the rest had, indeed, pistols and swords, but they were 
of small use to them. 

We took up seven of our men, and with difficulty 
enough too, three of them being very ill wounded ; 
and that which was still worse was, that while we 
stood in the boat to take our men in, we were in as 
much danger as they were in on shore; for they 
poured their arrows in upon us so thick, that we were 
tain to barricade the side of the boat up with the 
benches and two or three loose boards, which to our 
great satisfaction we had by mere accident, or provi- 
dence, in the boat. 

And yet had it been daylight, they are, it seems, 
such exact marksmen, that if they could have seen 
but the least part of any of us, they would have been 



190 ADVENTURES OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

sure of us. We had, by the light of the moon, a 
little sight of them as they stood pelting us from the 
shore with darts and arrows ; and having got ready our 
firearms, we gave them a volley, and we could hear 
by the cries of some of them that we had wounded 
several. However, they stood thus in battle array on 
the shore till break of day, which we suppose was 
that they might see the better to take their aim at us. 

In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to 
weigh our anchor, or set up our sail, because we must 
needs stand up in the boat, and they were as sure to 
hit us, as we were to hit a bird in a tree with small shot. 
We made signals of distress to the ship, which, though 
we rode a league off, yet my nephew, the captain, hearing 
our firing, and by glasses perceiving the posture we lay in, 
and that we fired towards the shore, pretty well under- 
stood us ; and weighing anchor with all speed, he stood 
as near the shore as he durst with the ship, and then sent 
another boat with ten hands in her to assist us ; but we 
called to them not to come too near, telling them what 
condition we were in. However, they stood in nearer to 
us ; and one of the men taking the end of a tow-line 
in his hand, and keeping our boat between him and the 
enemy, so that they could not perfectly see him, swam 
on board us, and made fast the line to the boat, upon 
which we slipped our little cable, and leaving our anchor 
behind, they towed us out of reach of the arrows, we 
all the while lying close behind the barricade we had 
made. 

As soon as we were got from between the ship and 
the shore, that she could lay her side to the shore, she 
ran along just by them, and we poured in a broadside 
among them, loaden with pieces of iron and lead, small 
bullets, and such stuff, besides the great shot, which 
made a terrible havoc amongst them. 

When we were got on board and but of danger, we 



ADVENTURES OF 



had time 

and indeed our 

those parts, put 

the inhabitaDts wouia n( 

had made a truce, if we 

provoke them to it. At 

an old woman, who had coir 

had brought it within our poli 

with her, who also brought 



1 the occasion of this fray j 
percargo, who had been often in 
' upon it ; for he said he whs sure 
jid not have touched us after we 
if we had not done soraething to 



while the old v 



I, whether ehe was 
o they could not tell, 



or herbs ; and 
mother to the 
selling u 



wench that waa 
made a great noia 
quit hie prize, bui 
flight among the 



oilercd some rudeness to the 
with her, at which the old woman 
s. However, the seaman would not 
carried her out of the old woman's 
trees, it being almost dark. The old 
ent away without her, and, as we suppose, 
outcry among the people she came from ; 
who, upon notice, raised this great army upon ua in 
three or four hours ; and it was great pdda but we had 
been all destroyed , 

One of our men waa killed with a lance thrown at 
him just at the beginning of the attack, as he sallied 
out of the lent they had made ; the rest came off free, 
all but the fellow who was the occasion of all the 
mischief, who paid dear enough for his black mistrcaa, 
for we could cot hear what became of him a great 
while. We lay upon the ahore two days after, though 
the wind presented, and made signals for him ; made 
our boat aail up shore and down ahore several leagues, 
but in vain j so we were obliged to give him over ; 
and if he alone had suffered for it, the loss had been 
the less. 

I could not satisfy myself, however, without venturing 
on shore once more lo try if I coidd learn anything of 
him or them. It was the third night after the action 



igj 



ADVENTURES OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



that I had a great mind to learo, if I coidd bjr a 
means, what mischief we had done, and how the game 
stood OQ the Indians' side. I was careful to do it ii 
dark, lest we should be attacked again ; but I o 
indeed to have been sure that the men I went with had 
been under my command before I engaged in a thing 
so hazardous and mischieTous, as I was brought in 
it without my knowledge or design. 

We took twenty stout fellows with us as any i 
ship, besides the supercargo and myself ; and we landed 
two hours before midnight, at the same place where the 
Indians stood drawn up the evening beiore. I landed 
here, because my design, as I have said, was chiefly to 
see if they had quitted the field, and if they had left 
any marks behind them of the mischief we had done 
them ; and I thought if we could surprise one ot 
of them, perhaps we might get our man again by way 
of exchange. 

We larded without any noise, and divided our 
into two bodies, whereof the baatiwaio commandn) 
one, and I the other. We neither saw or hea 
anybody stir when we landed, and we marched t 
one body at a distance from the other, to the place, 
but at first could see nothing, it being very dark; til! 
by-and-by our boatswain, that led the first party, 
stumbled and fell over a dead body. This made them 
halt awhile ; for knowing by the circumstances that they 
were at the place where die Indians had stood, they 
waited for my coming up. Here we concluded K 
till the moon began to rise, which we knew would be 
in less than an hour, when we could easily discern the 
havoc we had made among them. We told two and 
thirty bodies upon the ground, wliereof two weri 
quite dead; some had nn arm, and some a leg, shot 
off, and one his head ; those that were wounded \ 
supposed they had carried away. 



ADVSNTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1 93 

When we had madey as I thought, a full discovery 
of all we could come at the knowledge of, I was 
resolved for going on board; but the boatswain and 
his party sent me word that they were resolved to 
make a visit to the Indian town, where these dogs, as 
they called them, dwelt, and asked me to go along 
with them ; and if they could find them, as still they 
^cied they should, they did not doubt getting a good 
booty, and it might be they might find Tho. Jeffery 
there ; that was the man's name we had lost. 

Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well 
enough what answer to have given them ; for I would 
have commanded them instantly on board, knowing it 
was not a hazard fit for us to run who had a ship and 
ship-loading in our charge, and a voyage to make, 
which depended very much upon the lives of the men ; 
but as they sent me word they were resolved to go, and 
only asked me and my company to go along with 
them, I positively refused it, and rose up, for I was 
sitting on the ground, in order to go to the boat. One 
or two of the men began to importune me to go, and 
Vfhen I refused positively began to grumble, and say 
they were not under my command, and they would go. 
•* Come, Jack," says one of the men, " will you go 
vnth me? I'll go for one." Jack said he would; 
and another followed, and then another ; and in a 
word, they all left me but one, whom I persuaded to 
stay, and a boy left in the boat ; so the supercargo and 
I, with the third man, went back to the boat, where 
we told them we would stay for them, and take care to 
take in as many of them as should be left ; for I told 
them it was a mad thing they were going about, and sup- 
posed most of them would run the fate of Thomas Jeffery. 

They told me, like seamen, they'd warrant it 
they would come off again, and they would take care, 
&c. So away they went. I entreated them to 

II. N 



194 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

consider the ship and voyage; that their lives 
were not their own ; and that they were entrusted 
with the voyage in some measure ; that if they mis- 
carried, the ship might be lost for want of their help ; 
and that they could not answer it to God or man. I 
said a great deal more to them on that head, but I 
might as well have talked to the mainmast of the ship ; 
they were mad upon their journey ; only they gave me 
good words, and begged I would not be angry ; that 
they would be very cautious, and they did not doubt 
but they would be back again in about an hour at 
farthest ; for the Indian town, they said, was not above 
half a mile off, though they found it above two miles 
before they got to it. 

Well, they all went away, as above; and though 
the attempt was desperate, and such as none but mad- 
men would have gone about, yet, to give them their 
due, they went about it as warily as boldly. They 
were gallantly armed, that's true ; for they had every 
man a fusil or musket, a bayonet, and every man a 
pistol ; some of them had broad cutlasses, some of 
them hangers, and the boatswain and two more had 
pole-axes ; besides all which they had among them 
thirteen hand grenades. Bolder fellows, and better 
provided, never went about any wicked work in the 
world. 

When they went out their chief design was plunder, 
and they were in mighty hopes of finding gold there ; 
but a circumstance, which none of them were aware of, 
set them on fire with revenge, and made devils of them 
all. When they came to the few Indian houses which 
they thought had been the town, which was not above 
half a mile off, they were under a great disappointment ; 
for there were not above twelve or thirteen houses ; 
and where the town was, or how big, they knew not. 
They consulted therefore what to do, and were some 



f ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 195 

before they could resolve ; for if they felt upon 
these they muet cut all their throats, and it was tea to 
one but some of them might escape, it being 10 the 
night, though the moon was up ; and if one escaped, he 
would run away and raise all [he town, so the/ should 
have a whole army upon them. Again, on the other 
hand, if they went away, and left those untouched, 
for the people were all asleep, they could not tell which 
way 10 look for the town. 

However, the last was the best advice; so they 
resolved to leave them, and look for the town aa well 
as they could. They went on a little way, and found 
a cow tied to a tree ; this ihey presently concluded 
would be a good guide to them ; for they said the cow 
certanly belonged to the town before them or the town 
behind tbem, and if they untied her they should see 
which way she went. If she went back, they had nothing 
to aay to her ; but if she went forward, they had nothing 
to do but to follow her ; ao they cut the cord, which 
was made of twisted flags, and the cow went on before 
them. In a word, the cow led them directly to the 
town, which, as they report, consisted of above two 
hundred houses or huts, and in some of these they 
found several families living together. 

Here they found all in silence, as profoundly secure 
as sleep and a country that had never seen an enemy of 
that kind could make them. And first chey called 
another council to consider what they had to do, and in 
a word, they resolved to divide themselves into three 
bodies, and to set three houses on lire in three parts of 
the town ; and as the men came out, to seize them and 
bind them ; if any resisted, they need not be asked 
what to do then, and so to search the rest of the houses 
fox plunder ; but they resolved to march silently first 
through the town, and aee what dimensions it was of, 
and if they might venture upon it or no. 



196 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

They did so, and desperately resolved that they 
would venture upon them ; but while they were am- 
mating one another to the work, three of them that were 
a little before the rest called out aloud to them, and told 
them they had found Tom JefFery ; they all ran up to the 
place ; and so it was indeed, for there they found the 
poor fellow, hanged up naked by one arm, and his throat 
cut. There was an Indian house just by the tree, where 
they found sixteen or seventeen of the principal Indians 
who had been concerned in the fray with us before, and 
two or three of them wounded with our shot ; and our 
men found they were awake, and talking one to another 
in that house, but knew not their number. 

The sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged 
them, as before, that they swore to one another they 
would be revenged, and that not an Indian who came 
into their hands should have quarter ; and to work they 
went immediately, and yet not so madly as by the rage 
and fury they were in might be expected. Their first 
care was to get something that would soon take fire ; but 
after a little search they found that would be to no 
purpose, for most of the houses were low, and thatched 
with flags or rushes, of which the country is full ; so 
they presently made some wild-fire, as we call it, by 
wetting a little powder in the palms of their hands ; and 
in a quarter of an hour they set the town 00 fire in four 
or five places, and particularly that house where the 
Indians were not gone to bed. As soon as the fire 
began to blaze, the poor frighted creatures began to 
rush out to save their lives, but met with their fate in 
the attempt, and especially at the door, where they drove 
them back, the boatswain himself killing one or two 
with his pole-axe ; the house being large, and many in 
it, he did not care to go in, but called for a hand- 
grenade, and threw it among them, which at first 
frighted them ; but when it burst made such havoc 



^^ffioDg them, that 



OF ROBINSON CRDSOE. 

them, that they cried out in a hideous 

In ahort, most of the Indians who were in the open 
part of the house were killed or hurt with the grenade, 
except two or three more, who pressed to the door, 
which the boatswain and two more kept with their 
bayonets in the muzzles of their pieces, and despatched 
all who came that way. £ut there was another apart- 
ment in the house, where the prince, or king, or what- 
ever he was, and several other, were ; and these they 
kept in till the house, which was by this time all of a 
light flame, fell in upon them, and they were smothered 
or burnt together. 

All this while they fired not a gun, because they 
would not waken the people faster than they could 
master them ; but the 6re began to w^ken them fast 
enough, and our fellows were glad to keep a little 
together in bodies ; for the fire grew so raging, all the 
houses being made of light combustible stuff, that they 
could hardly bear the street between them, and their 
business wiiK to follow the fire for the surer execution. 
As fast as the fire either forced the people out of those 
houses which were burning, or frighted them out of 
others, our people were ready at their doors to knock 
them on the heiid, still calling and hallooing to one 
another to remember Thomas JeiFery. 

While this was doing I must confess I was very 
uneasy, and especially when I saw the flames of the 
town, which, it being night, seemed to be just by me. 

My nephew, the captain, who was roused by his 
men too, seeing such a fire, was very uneasy, not know- 
ing what the matter was, or what danger I was in ; 
especially hearing the guns too, for hy this time they 
b^an to use their firearms. A thousand thoughts 
oppressed his mind concerning me and the supercargo, 
what should become of us ; and at last, though he 



I9B ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

could ill Spare any more men, yet, not knowing 
what exigence we might be in, he takes another 
boaty and with thirteen men and himself come on 
shore to me. 

He was surprised to see me and the supercargo in the 
boat with no more than two men ; and though he was 
glad that we were well, yet he was in the same impatience 
with us to know what was doing ; for the noise continued, 
and the flame increased. In short, it was next to an 
impossibility for any men in the world to restrain their 
curiosity to know what had happened, or their concern 
for the safety of the men. In a word, the captain told 
me he would go and help his men, let what would 
come. I argued with him, as I did before with the 
men, the safety of the ship, the danger of the voyage, 
the interest of the owners and merchants, &c., and 
told him I would go, and the two men, and only see if 
we could, at a distance, learn what was like to be the 
event, and come back and tell him. 

It was all one to talk to my nephew, as it was to 
talk to the rest before ; he would go, he said, and he 
only wished he had left but ten men in the ship, for he 
could not think of having his men lost for want of help ; 
he had rather lose the ship, the voyage, and his life and 
all, and away went he. 

In a word, I was no more able to stay behind 
now than I was to persuade them not to go ; so, in 
short, the captain ordered two men to row back the 
pinnace, and fetch twelve men more, leaving the long- 
boat at an anchor ; and that when they came back six 
men should keep the two boats, and six more come 
after us, so that he left only sixteen men in the ship ; 
for the whole ship's company consisted of sixty-five 
men, whereof two were lost in the last quarrel which 
brought this mischief on. 

Being now on the march, you may be sure we felt 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. I99 

little of the ground we trod on ; and being guided by 
the fire, we kept no path, but went directly to the place 
of the flame. If the noise of the guns were surprising 
to us before, the cries of the poor people were now 
of quite another nature, and fiUed us with horror. I 
must confess I never was at the sacking a city, or at 
the taking a town by storm. I had heard of Oliver 
Cromwell taking Drogheda in Ireland, and killing man, 
woman, and child ; and I had read of Count Tilly sack- 
ing the city of Magdeburg, and cutting the throats of 
22,000 of all sexes ; but I never had an idea of the 
thing itself before, nor is it possible to describe it, or the 
horror which was upon our minds at hearing it. 

However, we went on, and at length came to the 
town, though there was no entering the streets of it for 
the fire. The first object we met with was the ruins 
of a hut or house, or rather the ashes of it, for the 
house was consumed ; and just before it, plain now to 
be seen by the light of the fire, lay four men and three 
women killed ; and, as we thought, one or two more 
lay in the heap among the fire. In short, there were 
such instances of a rage altogether barbarous, and of 
a fury something beyond what was human, that we 
thought it impossible our men could be guilty of it ; 
or if they were the authors of it, we thought they 
ought to be every one of them put to the worst 
of deaths. But this was not all ; we saw the fire 
increased forward, and the cry went on just as the fire 
went on, so that we were in the utmost confusion. 
We advanced a little way farther, and behold, to our 
astonishment, three women naked, and crying in a most 
dreadRil manner, come Hying as if they had indeed had 
wings, and after them sixteen or seventeen men, natives, 
in the same terror and consternation, with three of our 
English butchers, for I can call them no better, in 
their rear, who when they could not overtake them 



200 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

£red in among them, and one that was killed by their 
shot fell down in our sight. When the rest saw us, 
believing us to be their enemies, and that we would 
murder them as well as those that pursued them, they 
set up a most dreadful shriek, especially the women, 
and two of them fell down as if already dead with the 
fright. 

My very soul shrunk within me, and my blood ran 
chill in my veins when I saw this ; and I believe had 
the three English sailors that pursued them come on, 
I had made our men kill them all. However, we 
took some ways to let the poor fl3ring creatures know 
that we would not hurt them, and immediately they 
came up to us, and kneeling down, with their hands 
lifted up, made piteous lamentation to us to save them, 
which we let them know we would ; whereupon they 
crept all together in a huddle close behind us as for pro- 
tection. I left my men drawn up together, and charged 
them to hurt nobody, but if possible to get at some of 
our people, and see what devil it was possessed them, 
and what they intended to do ; and in a word, to com- 
mand them off, assuring them that if they stayed till 
daylight they would have a hundred thousand men 
about their ears ; I say, I left them and went among 
those flying people, taking only two of our men with 
me ; and there was indeed a piteous spectacle among 
them. Some of them had their feet terribly burnt with 
trampling and running through the fire, others their 
hands burnt. One of the women had fallen down in 
the fire, and was very much burnt before she could 
get out again ; and two or three of the men had cuts in 
their backs and thighs, from our men pursuing ; and 
another was shot through the body, and died while I 
was there. 

I would fain have learned what the occasion of all 
this was, but I could not understand one word they 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

said, though by signs I perceived that some of them 
knew not what was the occasion ihemselveB. I was 
80 terrified in my thoughts at this outrageous attempt, 
that I could not stay there, but went back to my own 
men, and resolved to go into the middle of the town 
through the lire, or whatever might be in the way, and 
put an end to it, cost what it wouJd. Accordingly, as 
soon as I came back to my men, I told thera my 
resolution, and commanded them to follow me, when 
in the very moment came four of our men, with the 
boatswain al their head, roving over the heaps of bodies 
they had killed, all covered with blood and dust, as if 
they wanted more people to massacre, when our men 
hallooed to them as loud as they could halloo, and with 
much ado one of them made them hear, so that they 
ICDew who we were, and came up to ua. 

As soon as the boatswain saw us he set up a halloo, 
like a shout of triumph, for having, as he thought, more 
help come ; and without bearing to hear me, " Captain," 
says he, " noble captain, I am glad you are come ! We 
have not half done yet, villainous hell-hound dogs ! 
I'll kill as many of them as poor Tom has hairs upon 
his head. We have sworn to spare none of them ; 
we'll root out the very nation of them from the earth." 
And thus he ran on, out of breath, too, with action, 
and would not give us leave lo speak a word. 

At last, raising my voice, that I might silence him a 
little, " Barbarous dog !" said I, " what are you doing ? 
I won't have one creature touched more upon pain of 
death. I charge you upon your life to stop your 
hands, and stand still here, or you are a dead man this 

" Why, sir," says he, "do you know what you do, 
or what they have done ! If you want a reason for 
what we have done, come hither ;" and with that he 
showed me the poor fellow hanging with his throat cut. 



I02 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON 

I confeea I was urged then myself, and at another 
time would have been forward enough ; but I thought 
ihey had carried their rage too far, and I thought of 
Jacob's words to hla sods Simeon and Levi, " Cursed 
be their anger, for It was fierce ; and their wrath, for it 
was cruel." But I had now a new task, upon n 
hands ; for when the men I carried with me saw ll 
sight as I had done, I had as much to do to restra 
them as I should have had with the Others j nay, ray 
nephew himself lell in with them, and told me In th ' 
hearing that he was only concerned for fear of the m 
being overpowered ; for as to the people, he thouj^ 
not one of them ought to livej for they had all glutted 
themselves with the murder of the poor man, and that 
they ought to be used like murderers. Upon these 
words away ran eight of ray men with the boatswain and 
his crew to complete their bloody work ; and I, seeing 
it quite out of ray power to restrain them, came away 
pensive and sad, for I could not bear the sight, mucii 
less the horrible noise and cries of the poor -wretche* 
that fell into their hands. 

I got nobody to corae back with me but the super- 
cargo and two men, and with these I walked back t» 
the boats. It was a very great piece of folly in me, I 
colifesa, lo venture back as it were alone ; for a 
began now to be almost day, and the alarm had 
over the country, there stood above forty men armed 
with lances and bows at the little place where the 
twelve or thirteen houses stood mentioned before ; 
by accident I missed the place, and came directly to 
the seaside ; and by the time I got to the seaside it 
broad day. Immediately I took the pinnace and « 
aboard, and sent her back to assist the men in what 
might happen. 

I observed about the rime that I came to the boat-aide 
that the Hre was pretty well out, and the noise abated ^ 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. i03 

but in about half-ao-hour after I got on board 1 heard 
a volley of our men's firearms, and saw a great smoke ; 
this, as I understood afterwards, was our men falling 
upon the men who, as I said, stood at the few 
houses on the way ; of whom they killed sixteen or 
seventeen, and set a!l those houses on fire, but did Dot 
meddle with the women or children. 

By that time the men got to the shore again with the 
pinnace our men began to appear ; they came dropping 
in some and some, not in two bodies, and in form, as 
they went, but all in heaps, straggling here and there 
In such a manner that a small force of resolute men 
might have cut them nil off. 

But the dread of them was upoi the whole country ; 
and the men were amazed and surprised, and so frighted, 
that I believe a hundred of them would have fled at 
the sight of hut five of our men. Nor in all this 
terrible action was there a man who made any con- 
gidcrable defence ; they were so surprised between the 
terror of the fire, and the sudden attack of our men in 
the tkrk, that they knew not which way to turn them- 
selves i for if they fied one way, they were met by one 
party j if back again, by another ; so that they were 
everywhere knocked down. Nor did any of our men 
receive the least hurt, except one, who strained his 
foot, and another had Due of his hands very much 

I was very angry with my nephew the captain, and 
indeed with all the men, in my mind, but with hira in 
particular, as well for his acting so out of his duty as 
commander of the ship, and having the charge of the 
voyage upon him, as in his prompting rather than cooling 
the rage of his men in so bloody and cruel an enter- 
prise. My nephew answered me very respectfully, but 
told me that when he saw the body of the poor seaman 
whom they had murdered in such a cruel and barbarous 



204 ADVfiNtUkfcS Of RdBmsON CRtJSOfe. 

manner he was not master of himself, neither could he 
govern his passion. He owned he should not have done 
so, as he was commander of the ship ; but as he was a 
man, and nature moved him, he could not bear it As 
for the rest of the men, they were not subject to me 
at all, and they knew it well enough, so they took no 
notice of my dislike. 

The next day we set sail, so we never heard any 
more of it. Our men differed in the account of the 
number they killed ; some said one thing, some 
another ; but according to the best of their accounts, 
put all together, they killed or destroyed about one 
hundred and fifty people, men, women, and children, 
and left not a house standing in the town. 

As for the poor fellow, Tho. Jeffery, as he was 
quite dead, for his throat was so cut that his head was 
half off, it would do him no service to bring him away; 
so they left him where they found him, only took him 
down from the tree where he was hanged by one 
hand. 

However just our men thought this action, I was 
against them in it, and I always after that time told 
them God would blast the voyage ; for I looked upon 
all the blood they shed that night to be murder in them; 
for though it is true that they had killed Tho. Jef- 
fery, yet it was as true that JefFery was the aggressor, 
had broken the truce, and had violated or debauched 
a young woman of theirs, who came down to them 
innocently, and on the faith of their public capitulatioa- 

The boatswain defended this quarrel when we wer^ 
afterwards on board. He said it is true that W^ 
seemed to break the truce, but really had not, and th^^ 
the war was begun the night before by the nativ^' 
themselves, who had shot at us, and killed one of o 
men without any just provocation ; so that as we we 
in a capacity to fight them now, we might also be in 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 205 

capacity to do ourselves justice upon them id an extra- 
ordinary manner ; that though the poor man had taken 
s little liberty with 2 wench, he ought not to have 
been muidered, and that in such a villainous manner ; 
and that they did nothing but what was just, and what 
the laws of God allowed to be done to murderers. 

One would think this should have been enough to 
have warned us against going on shore among heathens 
and barbarians ; but it is impossible to make mankind 
t their own experience ; and their experience 
be always of most use to them when it is 
dearest bought. 

We were now bound to the Gulf of Persia, and 
from thence to the coast of Cororoandel, only to touch 

Surat j but the chief of the supercargo's design lay 
at the Bay of Bengal, where if he missed of his busineaa 
fiutward- bound he was to go up to China, and return 
to the coast as he came home. 

The first disaster that befell us was in the Gulf of 
Persia, where five of our men venturing on shore on 
the Arabian side of the gulf were surrounded by the 
Arabians, and either all killed or carried away into 
slavery i the rest of the boat's crew were not able to 
rescue them, and had but just time to get olF their boat. 
1 began to upbraid them with the just retribution of 
Heaven in this case ; but the boatswain very warmly 
told me he thought I went farther in my censures than 

could show any warrant for in Scrijiture, and referred 
I the 13th of St Luke, verse 4, where our Saviour 
that those men on whom the tower of Siloam 
not sinners above ull the Galileans ; but that 
which indeed put me to silence in the case was, that 
one of these five men who were now lost were of the 
number of those who went on shore to the massacre 
of Madagascar (so 1 always called it, though our men 
could not bear the word massacre with any patience) ; 



w 



J 06 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



8 I have said, piil 



and, indeed, this last circumstance, 
for the presenL 
ly frequent preaching to them on this Bubjecl 
se conseijuenees than I expected ; and the 
boatswain, who had been the head of the attempt, came 
up boldly to nie one time, and told me he found thai 

inually brought that affair upon the stage, that I 
made unjust reflections upon it, and had used the men 
very ill on that account, and himself in particular ; thai 
as I was but a passenger, and had no coitimand in the 
ship, or concern in the voyage, they were not obli 
to bear it ; that they did not know but I might hate 

ill design in my head, and perhaps to call them 
to account for it when they came to England 
that, therefore, unless I would resolve to have dooe 
with it, and also not to concern myedf any farther wiii 
him, or any of his affairs, he would leave the ship ; for 
he did not think it was safe to sail with me amosj 

I heard him patiently enough till he had doK, 
and then told him that I did confess I had all along 
opposed the massacre of Madagascar, for such I would 
alwaya call it ; and that I had on all occasions spokes 
my mind freely about it, though not more upon him 
than any of the rest ; that as to my having no commaod 
in the ship, that was true, nor did I exercise aaf 
authority, only took my liberty of speaking my miD*^ 
in things which publicly concei'ned us all ; and wh^ 
rn I had in the voyage was none of his busl' 
that I was a considerable owner of the ship, an' 
in that claim I conceived I had a right to speak, eve- 
farther than I had yet dooe, and would not be account- 
able to him or any one else ; and began to be a littfc 
with him. He made but little reply to me at that time'- 
and I thought that aflair had been over. We were al 
the road at Bengal ; and bnng willing 




ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 207 

the place, I went oa shore with the supercargo in the 
ship s boat to divert myself; aod towards evening was 
preparing to go on board, when one of the men came to 
me, and toJd me he would not have me trouble myself 
to come down to the boat, for they had orders not to 
carry me on board any more. Any one may guess what 
a surprise I was in at go insolent a message ; and I asked 
the man who Kide him deliver that errand to me i He 
told me the coxswain. I said no more to the fellow, 
but bade him let them know he had delivered his 

and that I had given him no answer to it. 

lediately went and found out the supercargo 
and told him the story, adding what I presently fore- 
saw, viz., that there would certainly be a mutiny in the 
ship, and entreated him to go immediately on board 
the ship in an lodian boat, and actjuaint the captain of 
it. But I might have spared this intelligence, for before 
I had spoken to him on shore the matter was effected 
on board. The boatswain, the gunner, the carpenter, 
and, in a word, all the inferior officers, as soon as I 
was gone oif in the boat, came up to the quarter-deck 
and desired to speak with the captain ; and there the 
boatswain making a long harangue, for the fellow talked 
very well, and repeating all he had said to me, told the 
captain in a few words that as I was now gone peace- 
ably on shore, they were loath to use any violence with 
me i which if I had nnt gone on shore, they would 
otherwise have done, to oblige me to have gone. They 
therefore thought fit to tell him that as they shipped 
themselves to serve in the ship under his command, they 
would perform it well and faithfully ; but if I would not 
quit the ship, or the captain oblige me to quit it, they 
would all leave the ship, and sail no farther with him j 
and at that word " all,' he turned his fece about towards 
the mainmast, which was, it seems, the signal agreed 
OD between them, at which all the seamen being got 



2o8 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

together they cried out, ** One and all, one and 
all!" 

My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, and of 
great presence of mind ; and though he was surprised, 
you may be sure, at the thing, yet he told them calmly 
that he would consider of the thing, but that he could 
do nothing in it till he had spoken to me about it. He 
used some arguments with them to show them the 
unreasonableness and injustice of the thing, but it was 
all in vain ; they swore, and shook hands round, before 
his face, that they would go all on shore unless he 
would engage to them not to suffer me to come any 
more on board the ship. 

This was a hard article upon him, who knew his 
obligation to me, and did not know how I might take 
it ; so he began to talk cavalierly to them ; told them 
that I was a very considerable owner of the ship, and 
that in justice he could not put me out of my own 
house ; that this was next door to serving me as the 
famous pirate Kidd had done, who made the mutiny in 
a ship, set the captain on shore in an uninhabited island, 
and ran away with the ship; that let them go into 
what ship they would, if ever they came to England 
again it would cost them dear ; that the ship was mine, 
and that he could not put me out of it ; and that he 
would rather lose the ship, and the voyage too, than 
disoblige me so much; so they might do as they 
pleased. However, he would go on shore, and taVV. 
with me on shore, and invited the boatswain to go witl^ 
him, and perhaps they might accommodate the matt^^ 
with me. 

But they all rejected the proposal, and said th^" 
would have nothing to do with me any more, neith^^ 
on board or on shore ; and if I came on board, th^^ 
would all go on shore. " Well," said the captain, "^ 
you are all of this mind, let me go on shore and tal^ 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 209 

with him ; '" no away he came to rae with this account, 
a little alter the message had been brought U> me front 
the coxswain. 

I was very glad to see ray nephew I must confess, 
for I was not without apprehensions that they would 
confine him by violence, set sail, and run away with 
the ship ; and then I had been stripped n^ked, in a 
remote country, and nothing to help myself; in short, 
I had been in a worse case than when I was all alone 
in the island. 

But they had not come that length, it seems, to 
ray great satisfaction j and when my nephew told me 
what they had said to him, and how they had sworn, 
and shook hands, that they would one and all leave 
the ship if 1 was sufFered to come on board, I told 
him he should not be concerned at it at nil, for I would 
Btay on shore. I only desired he would take care and 
send me all ray necessary things on shore, and leave 
me a sufficient sum of money, and I would Und my 
way to Englaod as well is I could. 

This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew 1 but 
there was no way to help it, but to comply with it. 
So, in short, he went on board the ship again, and 
satisfied the men that his uncle had yielded to their 
. importunity, and had sent for his goods from on board 
'' the ship. So that matter was over in a rery few hours ; 
j the men returned to their duty, and I began to consider 

what course I should steer. 
] I was now alone in the remotest part of the world, 
' a» I think I may call it, for I was near three thousand 
! leagues, by sea, farther off from England than I was 
1 at ray island ; only, it is true, I might travel here by 
I land over the Great Mogul's country to Surat, might 
I go from thence to Bassora by sea, up the Gulf of 
I Pernat and from thence might take the way of the 
r the desert of Arabia to Aleppo and 




2 to ADVENTURES OF ROBINSOK CRUSOE. 

Scanderoon, horn thence by sea again to Italy, and 
80 overland into France ; and this, put together, 
might be, at least, a full diameter of the globe ; but if 
it were to be measured, I suppose it would appear to 
be a great deal more. 

I had another way before me, which was to wait 
for some English ships which were coming to Bengal 
from Acheen, on the island of Sumatra, and get passage 
on board them for England ; but as I came hither 
without any concern with the English East India 
Company, so it would be difficult to go from hence 
without their licence, unless with great favour of the 
captains of the ships, or of the Company's &;tor8; 
and to both I was an utter stranger. 

Here I had the particular pleasure, speaking by con- 
traries, to see the ship sail without me ; a treatment, 
I think, a man in my circumstances scarce ever met 
with, except from pirates running away with a ship, 
and setting those that would not agree with their villainy 
on shore ; indeed, this was next door to it both ways. 
However, my nephew left me two servants, or rather, 
one companion and one servant ; the first was clerk to 
the purser, whom he engaged to go with me, and the 
other was his own servant. I took me also a good lodg- 
ing in the house of an Englishwoman, where several 
merchants lodged, some French, two Italians, or rather 
Jews, and one Englishman. Here I was handsomely 
enough entertained ; and that I might not be said to 
run rashly upon an3rthing, I stayed here above nine 
months, considering what course to take, and how to 
manage myself. I had some English goods with me of 
value, and a considerable sum of money ; my nephew 
furnishing me with a thousand pieces of eight, and a 
letter of credit for more, if I had occasion, that I might 
not be straitened, whatever might happen. I quickly 
disposed of my goods, and to advantage too ; and as I 






ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



originally intended, I bought here some very good 
diamonds, which, of all other things, waa the most 
proper for me in ray present circumstances, because I 
might always carry my whole estate about me. 

After a long stay here, and many proposals made for 
my return to England, but none failing out to my mind, 
the English merchant who lodged with me, and with 
whom I had contracted an intimate acquaintance, 
came to me one moining. " Countryman," says he, 
" I have a project to communicate to you, which, as 
it suits with my thoughts, m;iy, for aught I know, suit 
with yours also, when you shall have thoroughly con- 

" Here we are posted," says he, " you by accident, 
and I by my own choice, in a pajt of the world very 
remote from our own country ; but it is in a country 
where, by us who understand trade and business, a great 
deal of money is to be got. If you will put a thousand 
pounds to my thousaud pounds, we will hire a ship here, 
the first we can get to our micids ; you shall be captain, 
I'll be merchant, and we will go a trading voyage to 
China ; for what should we stand still for ? The whole 
world is in motion, rolling round and round ; all the 
creatures of God, heavenly bodies and earthly, are busy 
and diligent ; why should we be idle ! There are no 
drones in the world, but men ; why should we be of 
that number ?" 

I liked his proposal very well ; and the more because 
it seemed to be expressed with so much good will, and 
in BO friendly a manner. I will not say but that I 
might, by my loose and unhinged circumstances, be the 
fitter to embrace a proposal for trade, or indeed for 
anything else ; whereas otherwise, trade was none of 
my element. However, I might, perhaps, say with 
wme truth, that if trade was not my element, ram- 
bling was ; and do proposal for seeing any part of the 



213 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

world which I never had seen before, could possibly 
come amiss to me. 

It was, however, some time before we could get a 
ship to our minds ; and when we had got a vessel, it was 
not easy to get English sailors; that is to say, so 
many as were necessary to govern the voyage, and 
manage the sailors which we should pick up there. 
After some time we got a mate, a boatswain, and a 
gunner, English ; a Dutch carpenter, and three Portu- 
guese foremastmen ; with these we found we could do 
well enough, having Indian seamen, such as they are, 
to make up. 

There are so many travellers who have wrote the 
history of their voyages and travels this way, that it 
would be very little diversion to anybody to give a 
long account of the places we went to, and the people 
who inhabit there. Those things I leave to others, 
and refer the reader to those journals and travels of 
Englishmen, of which many I find are published, and 
more promised every day. 'Tis enough to me to tell j 
you that I made this voyage to Acheen, in the island 
of Sumatra, and from thence to Siam, where we 
exchanged some of our wares for opium, and some 
arrack ; the first a commodity which bears a great 
price among the Chinese, and which, at that time, was 
very much wanted there; in a word, we went up 
to Suskan, made a very great voyage, were eight 
months out, and returned to Bengal, and I was verV 
well satisfied with my adventure. 

I observe, that our people in England often admir^ 
how the officers which the Company send into Indi^- 
and the merchants which generally stay there, get sue ^ 
very great estates as they do, and sometimes con^ * 
home worth sixty to seventy and a hundred thousan ^ 
pounds at a time. But it is no wonder, or at least w ^ 
shall see so much farther into it, when we consider th-^ 



DVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



e ports and places where they have a free 
'Commerce, chat it will then be do wonder ; aod mucli 
i less wilJ it be so wheo we consider, at all those 
[ places acd ports where the English ships come, there 
' is so much and such constant demand for the growth 
1 of all other countries, that there ia a certain vent for 
I the returns, as well as a market abroad for the goods 

' In short, we made a very good voyage, and I got 
; so much money by the lirst adventure, and such an 

■ insight into the method of getting more, that had I 
I been twenty years younger I should have been tempted 

■ to have E'ayed here, and sought no farther for making 
my fortune. But what was all this to a man on the 

'wrong side of threescore, that was rich enough, and 
came abroad more in obedience to a rcatless desire of 
I Beeing the world, than a covetous desire of getting in it f 
I And indeed I think 'tis with great justice that I now 
;caU it a resdess desire, for it was so. When I was at 
' home, I was restless to go abroad ; and now I was 
abroad, I was restless to be at home. I say, what gain 

■ was this to me ? I was rich enough, nor had I any 
■uneasy desires about getting more money; and there- 
ifore the proBts of the voyage to me were things of no 
great force for the prompting me forward to farther 
undertakings ; and I thought that by this voyage I had 
made no progress at all, because I was come back, as 

!' I might call it, to the place from whence I came, as 
I to a home; whereas my eye, which, like that which 
I Solomon speaks of, was never satisfied with seeing, was 

still more desirous of wandering and seeing. I was 
I come into a part of the world which I was never in 
f before, and that part in particular which I had heard 

much of, and was resolved to see as much of as I 
I could, and then I thought I might say t had seen all 

the world that was worth seeing. 



214 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

But my fellow-traveller and I had different nouons. 
1 do not name this to insist upon my own, for I 
acknowledge his were the most just, and the raost 
suited to the end of a merchant's life, who, when he 
is abroad upon adventures, 'tis his wisdom to stick to 
that as the best thing for him, which he is like to get 
the most money by. My new friend kept himself to 
the nature of the Uiing, and would have been content 
to have gone, like a carrier's horse, always to the same 
inn, backward and forward, provided he could, as he 
called it, find his account in it; on the other hand, 
mine was the notion of a mad rambling boy, that never 
cares to see a thing twice over. 

But this was not all. I had a kind of impatience 
upon me to be nearer home, and yet the most un- 
settled resolution imaginable which way to go. In the 
interval of these consultations, my friend, who was 
always upon the search for business, proposed another 
voyage to me among the Spice Islands, and to bring 
home a loading of cloves from the Manillas, or there- 
abouts ; places where, indeed, the Dutch do trade, but 
islands belonging partly to the Spaniards ; though we 
went not so far, but to some other, where they have not 
the whole power, as they have at Batavia, Ceylon, &c. 
We were not long in preparing for this voyage ; the 
chief difficulty was in bringing me to come into it 
However, nothing else oSering, and finding that 
really stirring about and trading, the profit b^ng so 
great, and, as I may say, certain, had more pleasure in 
it, and more satisfaction to the mind, than sitting still, 
which, to me especially, was the unhappiest part of life, 
I resolved on tliis voyage too, which we made very 
successfully, touching at Borneo and several islands, 
whose names I do not remember, and came home in 
about five months. We sold our spice, which was 
chiefly cloves, and some nutmegs, to the Persian 



' ROBINSON CRUSOE. 215 

I merchants, who carried them away for the gulf; and 
making near five of one, we really got a great deal of 
I money. 

. My friend, when we made op this account, emiied at 
I me. " Well, now," said he, with a sort of agree- 
, able idBult upon my indolent temper, "is not this better 
I than wallcing about here, like a man of nothing to do, 
I and spending our time Jn staring at the noneenae and 
ignorance of the pagans i " " Why truly," says I, 
I " my friend, I think it is, and I begin to be a convert 
J to the principles of merchandising ; but I must tell 
1 yoQ," said I, " by the way, you do not know what I 
ama-doingi for if once I conquer my backwardness, and 
' embark hearrily, as old as I am, I shall harass you up 
, and down the world till I tire you ; for I shall pursue 
' it BO eagerly, I shall never let you lie still." 

But to be short with my speculadons. A litde while 

after this there came in a Dutch ship from Batavia ; 

she was a coaster, not an European trader, and of 

' about two hundred tons burden j the men, as they 

pretended, having been so sickly, that the captain had 

' not men enough to go to sea with. He lay by at Bengal j 

and having, it seems, got money enough, or being willing 

for other reasons to go for Europe, he gave public 

I notice that he would sell his ship. This came to my 

I ears before my new partner heard of it, and I had 3 

great mind to buy it ; so I goes home to him, and 

" I him of it. He considered awhile, for he was no 

rash man either ; but musing some time, he replied. 

She is a little too big ; but, however, we will have 

;r." Accordingly we bought the ship 5 and agree- 

g with the master, we paid for her, and took possession. 

Thea we had done so, we resolved to entertain the 

1 them with those we had, for 

ess ; but on a sudden, they 

liiaving received not their wages, but their share of the 



ai6 ADVENTURSS OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

mooey, not one of them was to be found. We 
inquired much about them, and at length were told 
that they were all gone together, by land, to Agra, 
the great city of the Mogul's residence; and fronk 
thence were to travel to Surat, and so by sea to the 
Gulf of Persia. 

Nothing had so heartily troubled me a good while, 
as that I missed the opportunity of going with them 
for such a ramble I thought, and in such company 
would both have guarded me and diverted me, woul 
have suited mightily wit)i my great design ; and I shoul< 
both have seen the world, and gone homewards too. 
But I was much better satisfied a few days after, whe 
I came to know what sort of fellows they were ; for 
in short, their history was, that this man they call 
captain was the gunner only, not the commander ; thai 
they had been a trading voyage, in which they wer 
attacked on shore by some of the Malayans, who 
killed the captain and three of his men ; and that afte; 
the captain was killed these men, eleven in number 
had resolved to run away with the ship, which the 
did, and brought her in at the Bay of Bengal, leav- 
ing the mate and fi\e men more on shore ; of who 
we shall hear further. 

Well, let them come by the ship how they would, 
we came honestly by her, as we thought ; though we 
did not, I confess, examine into things so exactly as 
we ought ; for we never inquired anything of the sea- 
men, who, if we had examined, would certainly have 
faltered in their account, contradicted one another, 
and perhaps contradicted themselves; or, one how 
or other, we should have seen reason to have sus- 
pected them. But the man showed us a bill of sale 
for the ship to one Emanuel Clostershoven, or some 
such name, for I suppose it was all a forgery, and called 
himself by that name ; and we could not contradict him ; 









ADVEHTDRES OT ROBINSON CRUSOE. atf 

g withal a little too unwary, or at least having do 
m of the thing, we went through with our bargain, 
e picked up some more Enghah seamen here after 
thia, and aome Dutch ; and dow we resolved for a 
second voyage to the south-east for cloves. Sec., that 
IS to say, among the Philippine and Malacca Islea ; 
and in short, not to fill thia part of ray Biory with 
triHes, when what is yet to come is so remarkable, 
I spent, from iirat to last, aix yeara in this country, 
trading from port to port, backward and forward, 
and with very good success ; and was now the last 
year with my new partner, going in the ship above- 
mentioDed, on a voyage to China, but designing first 
*o Siam, to buy rice. 

Q this voyage, being by contrary winds obliged to 
oeat up and down a great while in the Straits of 
Malacca, and among the islands, we were no sooner 
got clear of thoae difficult seaa, but we found our ahip 
jwd sprung a leak, and we were not able, by all our 
mdastry, to find it out where it was. This forced us 
to made for some port ; and my partner, who knew the 
^Otintry better than I did, directed the captain to put 
into the river of Cambodia ; for I had made the English 
•"ate, one Mr Thompson, captain, not being willing to 
^ke the charge of two ships upon myself. This river 
'lea 00 the north side of the great bay or gulf which 
£oea up to Siam. 

AWhile we were here, and going often on shore for 
•■Hrcahmeat, there cornea to me one day an English- 
"•an, and he was, it seemfl, a gunner's mate on board 
^ English East India ship, which rode in the same 
"Ver, up at or near the city of Cambodia. What brought 
"^tn hither, we know not ; but he comes up to roe, and 
*P«akingin English, "Su-," says he, "you area stranger 
ne, and I to you ; but I have something to tell you, 



^ 



ihat 






arly 



you. 



2l8 ADVENTURES OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

I looked steadily at him a good while, and thought 
at first I had known him, but I did not. ** If it very 
nearly concerns me/' said ly^^and not yourself, what 
moves you to tell it me ? *' — ** I am moved," says he, 
** by the imminent danger you are in ; anc^ for ought 
I sec, you have no knowledge of it," — ** I know no 
danger I am in," said I, << but that my ship is leaky, 
and I cannot find it out; but I purpose to lay her 
aground to-morrow, to see if I can find it," — ** But, 
sir," says he, ** leaky or not leaky, find it or not find 
it, you will be wiser than to lay your ship on shore to- 
morrow, when you hear what I have to say to you. Do 
you know, sir,' said he, ^* the town of Cambodia lies 
about fifteen leagues up this river ? And there are two 
large English ships about ^ye leagues on this side, and 
three Dutch." — " Well," said I, " and what is that to 
me ? " — " Why, sir," said he, " is it for a man that is 
upon such adventures as you are upon to come into a 
port and not examine first what ships there are there, 
and whether he is able to deal with them ? I suppose 
you do not think you are a match for them ? " I was 
amused very much at his discourse, but not amazed at 
it, for I could not conceive what he meant. I turned 
short upon him, and said, " Sir, I wish you would 
explain yourself; I cannot imagine what reason I have 
to be afraid of any company of ships, or Dutch ships ; 
I am no interloper; what can diey have to say to 
me r 

He looked like a man half angry, half pleased ; and 
pausing awhile, but smiling, " Well, sir," said he, " if 
you think yourself secure, you must take your chance. 
I am sorry your fate should blind you against good 
advice ; but assure yourself if you do not put to sea 
immediately, you will the very next tide be attacked by 
five longboats full of men ; and perhaps, if you are 
taken, you will be hanged for a pirate, and the particulars 



ADVENTURES C 

be examined afterwards, I thought, air," added 
he, " I should have met with a better reception than 
this for doing you a piece of service of such im- 
portance." — ■' I can never be ungratefuJ," said I, 
*' for any service, or to any man that offers me any 
kindness ; but it is past my comprehension," said I, 
" what they should have such a design upon me for. 
However, since you say there is no time to be lost, and 
that there is some villainous design in hand against 
me, I'll go on board this minute, and put to sea im- 
mediately, if my men can stop the I?ak, or if we can 
fiwim without stopping it; but, sir," said I, "shall I 
go away ignorant of the reason of all this ? Can you 
give me no farther light into it ? " 

" I can tell you but part of the story, sir," says he 5 
" but I have a Dutch seaman here with me, and I 
believe I could persuade him to tell you the rest ; but 
there is scarce time for it. But the short of the Btory is 
this, the lirst part of which, I suppose, you know well 
enough, viz., that you was with this ship at Sumatra ; 
that there your captain was murdered by the Malayans, 
mth three of his men ; and that you, or some of those 
who were on board with you, ran away with the ship, 
and are since turned pirates. This is the sum of the 
story, and you will be all seized as pirates, I can 
assure you, and executed with very little ceremony ; 
for you know merchant- ships show but little law to 
pirates, if they get thera into their power." 

"Now you speak plain English," said I, "and 1 
thank you ; and though I know nothing that we have 
done like what you talk of, but am sure we came 
honestly and fairly by the ship, yet seeing such work 
is a-doing, as you say, and that you seem to mean 
faonestly, I'll be upon my guard." — "Nay, sir," aaya 
he, "do not talk of being upon your guard ; the beat 
defence is to be out of the danger. If you have any 



aiO ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

regard to your life, and the lives of all your meDi pS. 
out to sea without fail at high-water ; and as you have 
a whole tide belore you, you will be gone too fer 
out before they can come down, for they come away 
at high-water ; and as they have twenty miles to come, 
you get near two hours of them by the difierence of 
the tide, not reckoning the length of the way ; beaides, 
as they ate only boats, and not ships, they will not 
venture to follow you far out to tea, especially if \t 

" Well," says 1, "you have been very kind in tlut; 
what shail I do for you to make you amends?" — 
" Sir," says he, " you may not be so willing to make me 
any amends, because you may not be convinced of the 
truth of it. I'll make an offer to you. I have nine- 
teen months' pay due to me on board the ship , 

which 1 came out of England in; and the Dutch- 
man that is with me has seven months' pay due to 
him ; if you will make good our pay to us, we will 
go along with you ; and if you find no more in it, we 
will desire do more ( but if we do convince you thai 
we have saved yoar lives, and the ship, and the lives 
of all the men in her, we will leave the rest to you." 

I consented to this rradily, and went immediately 
on hoard, and the two men with me. As soon as I 
came to the ship's side, my partner, who was on board, 
came out on the quarter-deck, and called to me with a 
great deal of joy, " ho ! O ho ! we have stopped 
the leak! we have slopped the leak!" — "Say you 
so ? " said I ; " thank God ! but weigh the an< 
immediately." — "Weigh! "says he; "what do 
mean by that? What is the matter?" says h 
" Ask no questions," aaya I, " hut all hands to work, 
and weigh without losing a minute." He was 

'sed ; but, however, he called the captain, and be 

mediately ordered the anchor to be got up ; and 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ZZI 

though the tide was not quite done, yet a little land- 
breeze blowing, we stood out to sea. Then I called him 
into the cabin, and told him the story at large ; and we 
called in the men, and they told ub the rest of it. Eut 
it took us up a great deal of time, so before we had 
done a seaman comes to the cabin door, and calls out 
to us, that the captain bade him tell us we were chased. 
" Chased !" said I ; " by whom, and by what ? " — " By 
five sloojH, or boats," says the fellow, " full of men." 
— *' Very well," said I ; " then it is apparent there is 
something in it" In the next place, I ordered all our 
men to be called up, and told them that there was a 
design to seize the ship, and to take us for pirates, and 
asked them if they would stand by us, and by one 
another ! The men answered cheerfully that, one and 
all, they would live and die with us. Then I asked 
the captain what way he thought beat for us to manage 
the iigtit with them, for resist them I f/as resolved we 
would, and that to the last drop. He said readily, 
that the way was to keep them off with our great shot 
as long as we could, and then to fire at them with our 
amalf arms as long as we could ; but when neither of 
these would do any longer, we should retire to our close 
quarters ; perhaps they had not materials to break open 
our bulk'heads, or get in upon us. 

The gunner had, in the meantime, order to bring 

wo guns to bear fore and aft out of the steerage, to 
clear the deck, and load them with musket- bullets and 
small pieces of old iron, and what next came to hand, 
and thus we made ready for fight ; but all this while we 
kept out to sea, with wind enough, and could see the 
boats at a distance, being five lajge longboats, following 
a» with aU the sail they could make. 

Two of these boats, which by our glasses we could 

lee were English, outsailed the rest, and were near two 
leagues ahead of them, and gained upon us consider- 



232 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

ably, 80 that we found they would come up with us ; 
upon which we fired a gun without ball, to intimate 
that they should bring to ; and we put out a flag of 
truce, as a signal for parley ; but they kept crowding 
after us till they came within shot, when we took 
in our white flag, they having made no answer to it, 
hung out a red flag, and fired at them with a shot 
Notwithstanding this they came on till they were near 
enough to call to them with a speaking-trumpet, which 
we had on board ; so we called to them, and bid them 
keep o£P at their peril. 

It was all one ; they crowded after us, and endea- 
voured to come under our stem, so to board us on our 
quarter; upon which, seeing they were resolute for 
mischief, and depended upon the strength that followed 
them, I ordered to bring the ship to, so that they lay 
upon our broadside, when immediately we fired five guns 
at them, one of which had been levelled so true as to 
carry away the stern of the hindermost boat, and bring 
them to the necessity of taking down their sail, and 
running all to the head of the boat to keep her from 
sinking. So she lay by, and had enough of it ; but 
seeing the foremost boat crowd on after us, we made 
ready to fire at hfer in particular. 

While this was doing, one of the three boats that was 
behind, being forwarder than the other two, made up 
to the boat which we had disabled, to relieve her, and 
we could afterwards see her take out the men. We 
called again to the foremost boat, and offered a truce to 
parley again, and to know what was her business with 
us, but had no answer : only she crowded close under 
our stern. Upon this our gunner, who was a very 
dexterous fellow, ran out his two chase-guns, and fired 
again at her ; but the shot missing, the men in the boat 
shouted, waved their caps, and came on. But the 
gunner, getting quickly ready again, fired among them 



AfiVftmrRES OF" ROBINSON CRUSOE. 223 

the eecond time, one shot of which, though it raieaed 
the boat itaelf, yet fell io among the men, and. we could 
easily see had done a great deal of mischief among them ; 
but we, taking no notice of that, wared the ship again, 
and brought our quarter to bear upon them, and firing 
three guns more, we found the boat was split almoit to 
pieces; in particular, her rudder, and a piece of her 
Btern, were shot quite away ; so they handed their sail 
immediately, and were in great disorder ; but to com- 
plele their misfortune our gunner let fly two guna at 
them again j where he hit them we could not tell, but 
we found the boat was sinking, and some of the men 
already in the water. Upon this I immediately manned 
out our pinnace, which we had kept close by our side, 
with orders to pick up some of the men, if they could, 
and save them from drowning, and immediately to come 
on board with them, because we saw the rest of the 
boats began to come up. Our men in the pinnace 
followed their orders, and took up three men ; one of 
which was just drowning, and it was a good while before 
we could recover him. As soon as they were on board 
we crowded all the sail we could make, and stood farther 
out to sea ; and we found that when the other three 
boats came up to the first two, they gave over their 

Being thus delivered from a danger, winch, though 
I knew not the reason of it, yet seemed to be much 
greater than I apprehended, I took care that we would 
change our course, and not let any one imagine whither 
we were going ; so we stood out to aea eastward, quite 
out of the course of all European ships, whether they 
were bound to China, or anywhere else within the 
commerce of the European nations. 

When we were now at aea, we began to consult with 
the two seamen, and inquire first what the meaning of 
all this should be * and the Dutchman let us into the 



214 



ADVBNTURKS O? ROBINSON CItUSOB. 



secret of it at once, telling ua that the fellow that sold 
us the ship, as we naid, was no more than a thief thai 
had run away with her. Then he told us ho( 
captain, whose name too he told us, though I do 
not remember, was treacherously murdered by die 
natives on the coast of Malacca, with three of hii 
men ; and that he, this Dutchman and four more 
into the woods, where they wandered about a 
while; till at length he, in particular, in a miraculoiu 
manner made his escape, and swam off lo a Dutch 
ship, which sailing near the shore in its way from 
China, had sent their boat on shore for fresh waieri 
that he durst not come to that part of the shore 
where the boat was, but made shift io the nigl 
take the water farther off, and the ship's boat took 
him up. 

He then told us that he went to Batavia, when 
of the seamen belonging to the ship arrived, having 
deserted the rest in their travels ; and gave an act 
that the fellow who had run sway with the ship mU 
her at Bengal to a set of pirates, which were gone 
a-cruising in her, and that they had already taken an 
English ship and two Dutch ships, very lichly laden, 

This latter part we found to concern us directly} 
and though we knew it to be false, yet, as my partner 
said very well, if we had fallen into their hands, and 
they had had such a prepossession against us beforn- 
hand, it had been in vain for us to have defended o 
selves, or to hope for any good quarter at thrir hands; 
and especially considering that our accusers had been oi 
judges, and that we could have expected nothing from 
them but what rage would have dictated, and ac 
governed psaion have executed ; and therefore ii 
his opinion we should go directly back to Be 
from whence we came, without putting in at any pott 
whatever, because there we could give a good account 



ADYEKTCRES OF ROBIXSOK CRl'SSOE. *»^ 

of ourselves, could proTe where we were wIkhi\ tht" 
ship put in, whom we bought her of* and the likes 
and which was more than all the mt, if we were put 
to the necessity of bringing it before the proper jud^e«« 
we should be sure to have some justice* and not he 
hanged first, and judged afterwards. 

I was some time of my partner's opinion { but after 
a little more serious thinking, I told him I thought it 
was a very great hazard for us to attempt returning to 
Bengal, for that we were on the wrong side of the 
Straits of Malacca ; and that if the alarm was given* 
we should be sure to be waylaid on every side* as well 
by the Dutch of Batavia* as the English elsewhere) 
that if we should be taken* as it were running away* 
we should even condemn ourselves* and there would 
want no more evidence to destroy us. I also asked 
the English sailor's opinion* who said he was of n)y 
mind, and that we should certainly be taken. 

Thb danger a little startled my partner, and all the 
ship's company; and we immeciiately resolved to go 
away to the coast of Tonquin* and so on to the coast 
of China ; and pursuing the first design as to trade* 
find some way or other to dispose of the ship* and 
come back in some c^ the vessels c^ the country* such 
as we could get. This was approved o^ as the best 
method fi^r our security; and accordingly we ^luxrtd 
away N.N.E., keeping above fifty leagues off itom tl»e 
usual course to the eastward* 

This, however, pot us to some incoovemeoces ; U)r 
first the winds, when we came to the distance from th^ 
shore, seemed to be more steadily aguost us, bl^nyioj/ 
almost trade, as we call tt, horn the east and h^SJ".,, 
so that we were a long while iiyjD <jvr voyaj^ ^tjnd w«r 
were but iH fsxnridtd -wth victnaJs for so kAg a r*/y^^ ; 
and whidi was st2] worse, there was some dao^ ^^ 
those Eio^ath and Ihadu ^uf^ 'wAnom: bciau |fursiibC 

n ir 



226 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

u8, whereof some were bound that way^ might be got 
in before us ; and if not, some other ship bound to 
China might have information of us from them^ and 
pursue us with the same vigour. 

I must confess I was now very uneasy, and thought 
myself, including the late escape from the longboats, 
to have been in the most dangerous condition that ever 
I was in through all my past life; for whatever ill 
circumstances I had been in, I was never pursued for 
a thief before; nor had I ever done anything that 
merited the name of dishonest or fraudulent, much less 
thievish. I had chiefly been my own enemy ; or, as 
I may rightly say, I had been nobody's enemy but my 
own. But now I was embarrassed in the worst condi- 
tion imaginable ; for though I was perfectly innocent, 
I was in no condition to make that innocence appear; 
and if I had been taken, it had been under a supposed 
guilt of the worst kind, at least a crime esteemed so 
among the people I had to do with. 

This made me very anxious to make an escape^ 
though which way to do it I knew not, or what port 
or place we should go ta My partner, seeing me 
thus dejected, though he was the most concerned at 
first, began to encourage me, and describing to me 
the several ports of that coast, told me he would put 
in on the coast of Cochin China, or the bay of Tonquin ; 
intending to go afterwards to Macao, a town once in 
the possession of the Portuguese, and where still a 
great many European families resided, and particularly 
the missionary priests usually went thither, in order to 
their going forward to China. 

Hither then we resolved to go; and accordingly, 
though after a tedious and irregular course, and very 
much straitened for provisions, we came within sight of 
the coast very early in the morning ; and upon reflec- 
tion upon the past circumstances we were in, and the 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOK 227 

danger, if we had not escaped, we resolved to put into 
a small river, which, however, had a depth enough of 
water for us, and to see if we could, either overland or 
by the ship's pinnace, come to know what ships were 
in any ports thereabouts. This happy step was, 
indeed, our deliverance ; for though we did not 
immediately see any European ships in the bay of 
Tonquin, yet the next morning there came into the 
bay two Dutch ships, and a third without any colours 
spread out, but which we believed to be a Dutchman, 
passed by at about two leagues' distance, steering for 
the coast of China ; and in the afternoon went by two 
English ships, steering the same course ; and thus we 
thought we saw ourselves beset with enemies, both one 
way or other. The place we were in was wild 
and barbarous, the people thieves, even by occupation 
or profession ; and though, it is true, we had not 
much to seek of them, and except getting a few provi- 
sions, cared not how little we had to do with them, 
yet it was with much difHculty that we kept ourselves 
from being insulted by them several ways. 

We were in a small river of this country, within a 
few leagues of its utmost limits northward, and by our 
boat we coasted north-east to the point of land which 
opens the great bay of Tonquin ; and it was in this 
beating up along the shore that we discovered as above, 
that in a word, we were surrounded with enemies. 
The people we were among were the most barbarous of 
all the inhabitants of the coast, having no correspond- 
ence with any other nation, and dealing only in fish 
and oil, and such gross commodities ; and it may be 
particularly seen that they are, as I said, the most 
barbarous of any of the inhabitants, viz., that among 
other customs they have this as one, viz., that if any 
vessel have the misfortune to be shipwrecked upon the 
coast, they presently make the men all prisoners or 



328 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

slaves; and it was not long before we found a 
spice of their kindness this way, on the occasion fol- 
lowing. 

I have observed above that our ship sprung a leak at 
sea, and that we could not find it out ; and however it 
happened that, as I have said, it was stopped unex- 
pectedly in the happy minute of our being to be seized 
by the Dutch and English ships in the bay of Siam, 
yet as we did not find the ship so perfectly fit and 
sound as we desired, we resolved while we were in 
this place to lay her on shore, take oat what heavy 
things we had on board, which were not many, and to 
wash and clean her bottom, and if possible to find oat 
where the leaks were. 

Accordingly, having lightened the ship, and brought 
all our guns and other movable things to one side, we 
tried to bring her down, that we might come at her 
bottom ; but on second thoughts we did not care to 
lay her dry on ground, neither could we find out a 
proper place for it. 

The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted 
with such a sight, came wondering down to the shore 
to look at us ; and seeing the ship lie down on one side 
in such a manner, and heeling in towards the shore, aod 
not seeing our men, who were at work on her bottom 
with stages and with their boats, on the oflP side, they 
presently concluded that the ship was cast away, and ' 
so lay fast on the ground. 

On this supposition they came all about us in two ^^ 
three hours' time, with ten or twelve large boats, havi^S 
some of them eight, some ten men in a boat, intending, ^° 
doubt, to have come on board and plundered the shi J? » 
and if they had found us there, to have carried us a.^^^ 
for slaves to their king, or whatever they call h£^' 
for we knew nothing who was their governor. 

When they came up to the ship and began to rC^"^ 



B ADVENTURES OF 

' round her, they discovered us alJ hard at w 
outside of the ship's bottom and aide, washing, aad 
graving, and stoopiog, as every seafaring man Icoowe 

They stood for awhiJe gazing at us, and we, who 
were a little surprised, could not imagine what their 
dewgn was ; but being willing to be sure, we took this 
opportunity to get some of us into the ship, and others 
to hand down arms and ammunition to those that were 
at work to defend themselves with, if there should be 
occasion; and it was no more than need, for in less 
than a quarter of an hour's consultation they agreed, 
it seems, that the ship was really a wreck ; that we 
were all at work endeavouiing to eave her, or to save 
our lives by the help of our boats ; and when we 
handed our arms into the boats, they concluded by that 
niotioD that we weie endeavouring to save some of our 
goods. Upon this they took it for granted we all 
belonged to them, and away they came down upon our 
men, as if it had been in a line of battle. 

Our men seeing so many of them began to be frighted, 
for we lay hat in an ill posture to fight, and cried out to 
UB to know what they should do. I immediately called 
to the men who worked upon the stage to slip them 
down and get up the side into the ship, and bade those 
in the boat to row round and come on board ; and those 
few of us who were on board worked with all the 
strength and hands we had to bring the ship to rights ; 
but, however, neither the men upon the stage, or those 
in the boats, could do as they were ordered before the 
Cochin Chinese were upon them, and two of their boats 
boarded our longboat, and began to lay hold of the 
men as their prisoners. 

The first man they laid hold of was an English sea- 
nmn, a stout, strong fellow, who having a musket in his 
hand never oifered to fire it, but laid it down in the 



1 



230 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

boaty like a fool as I thought. But he understood his 
business better than I could teach him ; for he grappled 
the pagan, and dragged him by main force out of their 
own boat into ours, where taking him by the two ears 
he beat his head so against the boat's gunnel, that the 
fellow died instantly in his hands ; and in the mean- 
time a Dutchman, who stood next, took up the musket, 
and with the butt-end of it so laid about him, that he 
knocked down five of them who attempted to enter the 
boat. But this was doing little towards resisting thirty 
or forty men, who, fearless, because ignorant of their 
danger, began to throw themselves into the longboat, 
where we had but five men in all to defend it. But 
one accident gave our men a complete victory, which 
deserved our laughter rather than anything else, and 
that was this. 

Our carpenter being preparing to grave the outside 
of the ship, as well as to pay the seams where he had 
caulked her to stop the leaks, had got two kettles just 
let down into the boat, one filled with boiling pitch, 
and the other with rosin, tajlow, and oil, and such stuff 
as the shipwrights use for that work ; and the man that 
attended the carpenter had a great iron ladle in his hand, 
with which he supplied the men that were at work with 
that hot stuff. Two of the enemy's men entered the boat 
just where this fellow stood, being in the fore-sheets ; 
he immediately saluted them with a ladleful of the stuff, 
boiling hot, which so burnt and scalded them, being 
half naked, that they roared out like two bulls, and 
enraged with the fire, leaped both into the sea. The 
carpenter saw it, and cried out, " Well done, Jack, give 
them some more of it ; " and stepping forward him- 
self takes one of their mops, and dipping it in the 
pitch- pot, he and his man threw it among them so plen- 
tifully, that, in short, of all the men in the three boats 
there was not one that was not scalded and burnt with 



ADVENTURES C 



r, and made such 



it in a meet frightful and pititul n 
a howling and cryiog, that I never heard a 
and, indeed, nothing like it ; for it ia worth observ- 
ing, that though pain naturdly makes all people cry out, 
yet every nation has a particulai' way of exclamation, 
and malting noises as different from one another 



e these creatures made 

r heard anything more 
s which, as I have said. 



1 the froi 



a of Lan 

and that 
; got this 



a better name than howling, i 
to the tone of it ; for 1 i 
like the noiae of the woh 
I heard howl in the forest o 
guedoe. 

I was never pleased with a victory better t[ 
not only as it was a perfect sur 
our danger was imminent before _ 

victory without any bloodshed, except of that n 
fellow killed with his naked hands, and which I was 
very much concerned at ; for I was sick of killing 
such poor savage wretches, even though it was in my 
own defence, knowing they came on errands which they 
thought just, and knew no better ; and that though it 
may be a just thing, because necessary, for there is no 
necessary wickedness in nature ; yet I thought it was a 
sad life in which we must be always obliged to be killing 
our fellow-creatures to preserve our own, and, indeed, 
I think so still, and 1 would, even now, suffer a great 
deal rather than I would take away the life even of 
the person injuring me ; and I believe all considering 
people, who know the value of life, would be of my 
opinion, at least they would if they entered seriously 
into the consideration of it. 

But to return to my story. All the while this was 
doing, my partner and 1, who managed the rest of the 
men on board, had with great dexterity brought the 
■hip almost to rights ; and having gotten the guns into 
their placea again, the gunr 



r called to n 



232 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

boat get out of the way, for he would let fly among 
them. I called back again to him, and bid him not 
offer to fire, for the carpenter would do the work 
without him, but bade him heat another pitch-kettle, 
which our cook, who was on board, took care o£ 
But the enemy was so terrified with what they had met 
with in their first attack, that .they would not come on 
again ; and some of them that were ferthest off seeing 
the ship swim, as it were^ upright, begun, as we sup- 
posed, to see their mistake, and give over the enterprise, 
finding it was not as they expected. Thus we got clear 
of this merry fight ; and having gotten some rice and 
some roots and bread, with about sixteen good big hogs 
on board two days before, we resolved to stay here no 
longer, but go forward whatever came of it ; for we 
made no doubt but we should be surrounded the next 
day with rogues enough, perhaps more than our pitch- 
kettle would dispose of for us. 

We therefore got all our things on board the same 
evening, and the next morning were ready to sail. In 
the meantime, lying at an anchor at some distance, 
we were not so much concerned, being now in a 
fighting posture, as well as in a sailing posture, if any 
enemy had presented. The next day, having finished 
our work within board, and finding our ship was 
perfectly healed of all her leaks, we set sail. We 
would have gone into the bay of Tonquin, for we 
wanted to inform ourselves of what was to be known 
concerning the Dutch ships that had been there; but 
we durst not stand in there, because we had seen 
several ships go in, as we supposed, but a little before ; 
so we kept on N.E. towards the Isle of Formosa, as 
much afraid of being seen by a Dutch or English 
merchant-ship, as a Dutch or English merchant-ship 
in the Mediterranean is of an Algerine man-of- 
war. 



ADVBNTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 233 

When we were thus got to sea we kept out N.E. 
as if we would go to the Mauillas or the Philippine 
Islands, and this we did that we might not (all into 
the way of any of our European ships ; and then we 
Steered north till we came to the latitude of 22 degrees 
30 minutes, by which means we made the island 
of Formosa directly, where we came to an anchor 
ID order to get water and fresh provisions, which the 
people there, who are rery courteous and civil in their 
manners, supplied us with willingly, and dealt very 
fairly and punctually with us in all their agreements 
and bargains ; which is what we did not find among 
Other people, and may be owing to the remains of 
Christianity, which was once planted here by a Dutch 
tuiaaionary of Protestants, and is a testimony of what I 
have often observed, viz., that the Christian religion 
always civilises the people and reforms their manners, 
where it is received, whether it works saving effecla 
upon them or do. 

From hence we sailed still north, keeping the coast 
of Chins at an equal distaace, till we knew we were 
beyond all the porta of China where our European 
ships usually come ; being resolved, if possible, not to 
fall into any of their hands, especially in this country, 
where, as our circumstances were, we could not fail of 
bring entirely ruined; nay, so great was my fear in 
particular as to my being taken by them, that I beJieve 
firmly I would much rather have chosen to fall into 
the hands of the Spanish Inquisition. 

Being now come to the latitude of 30 degrees, we 
resolved to put into the first trading port we should 
come at, and standing in for the shore a boat came off 
two leagues to us, with an old Portuguese pilot on 
board, who, knowing us to be an Hurojiean ship, came 
to offer bis service, which indeed we were very glad 
of, and took him on board ; upon which, without 



^ 



234 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

asking us whither we would go, he dismissed the boat 
he came in, and sent them back. 

I thought it was now so much in our choice to 
make the old man carry us whither we would, that 
I began to talk with him about carrying us to the Gulf 
of Nanking, which is the most northern part of the 
coast of China. The old man said he knew the Gulf 
of Nanking very well ; but smiling, asked us what we 
would do there ? 

I told him we would sell our cargo, and purchase 
China wares, calicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks, &€., 
and so would return by the same course we came. He 
told us our best port had been to have put in at Macao, 
where we could not have failed of a market for our opium 
to our satisfaction, and might, for our money, have pur- 
chased all sorts of China goods as cheap as we could 
at Nanking. 

Not being able to put the old man out of his talk, of 
which he was very opinionated, or conceited, I told 
him we were gentlemen as well as merchants, and that 
we had a mind to go and see the great city of Peking, 
and the famous court of the monarch of China. " Why 
then," says the old man, ** you should go to Ningpo, 
where, by the river which runs into the sea there, you 
may go up within five leagues of the great canal. This 
canal is a navigable river, which goes through the 
heart of all that vast empire of China, crosses all the 
rivers, passes some considerable hills by the help 
of sluices and gates, and goes up to the city of Peking, 
being in length near two hundred and seventy leagues." 

«< Well," said I, ** Seignior Portuguese, but that is 
not our business now ; the great question is, if you can 
carry us up to the city of Nanking, from whence we can 
travel to Peking afterwards ? " Yes, he said he could do 
so very well, and that there was a great Dutch ship gone 
by that way just before. This gave me a little shock ; 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 235 

I Dutch ship was now our terror, and we had much 
rather have met the devil, at least if he had not come 
in too frightful a figure, and we depended upon it that a 
Dutch ship would be our destruction, for we were in no 
:ondition to fight them, all the ships they trade with 
nto those parts being of great burden, and of much 
greater force than we were. 

The old man found me a little confused and under 
lome concern when he named a Dutch ship, and said 
x> me, ** Sir, you need be under no apprehensions of the 
Dutch ; I suppose they are not now at war with your 
lation ? " — " No,*' says I, " that's true ; but I know 
lot what liberties men may take when they are out of 
he reach of the law." — *< Why," says he, "you are 
10 pirates, what need you fear ? They will not meddle 
Kfith peaceable merchants, sure." 

If I had any blood in my body that did not fly up 
nto my ^ce at that word, it was hindered by some stop 
n the vessels appointed by Nature to prevent it ; for it 
put me into the greatest chsorder and confusion imagin- 
ible ; nor was it possible for me to conceal it so but 
that the old man easily perceived it. 

** Sir," says he, " I find you are in some disorder in 
your thoughts at my talk ; pray be pleased to go which 
way you think fit, and depend upon it I'll do you all the 
service I can." — " Why, seignior," said I, " it is true 
I am a little unsettled in my resolution at this time 
whither to go in particular, and I am something more 
so for what you said about pirates. I hope there are no 
pirates in these seas ; we are but in an ill condition to 
meet with them, for you see we have but a small force, 
md but very weakly manned." 

" Oh sir," savs he, " do not be concerned ; I do 
lot know that there has been any pirates in these seas 
hese fifteen years, except one, which was seen, as I 
lear, in the bay of Siam, about a month since ; but you 



236 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

may be assured she is gone to the southward ; nor was 
she a ship of any great force, or fit for the work ; she 
was not built for a privateer, but was run away with by a 
reprobate crew that were on board, after the captain and 
some of his men had been murdered by the Malayans 
at or near the island of Sumatra.'' 

" What ! " said I, seeming to know nothing of the 
matter, ** did they murder the captain ? " — ** No," said 
he, ^* I do not understand that they murdered him ; 
but as they afterwards ran away with the ship, it is 
generally believed they betrayed him into the hands 
of the Malayans, who did murder him, and, perhaps, 
they procured them to do it.'* — " Why then," said I, 
" they deserve death as much as if they had done it 
themselves." — ^**Nay," says the old man, "they do 
deserve it, and they will certainly have it if they light 
upon any English or Dutch ship, for they have all 
agreed together that if they meet that rogue they will 
give him no quarter," 

** But," said I to him, ** you say the pirate is gone 
out of those seas ; how can they meet with him I " 
— " Why, that is true," says he, " they do say so ; but 
he was, as I tell you, in the bay of Siam, in the river 
Cambodia, and was discovered there by some Dutchmen 
who belonged to the ship, and who were left on shore 
when they ran away with her ; and some English and 
Dutch traders being in the river, they were within a 
little of taking him. Nay," said he, " if the foremost 
boats had been well seconded by the rest, they had 
certainly taken him ; but he finding only two boats 
within reach of him, tacked about, and fired at these 
two, and disabled them before the others came up ; and 
then standing off to sea, the others were not able to 
follow him, and so he got away. But they have all so 
exact a description of the ship, that they will be sure to 
know him ; and wherever they find him, they have 



JJVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



^RrT'Eo give no quarter to either the captain or the 
■eamen, but to hang ihera all up at the yardarm." 

"What! " saya I," will they execute them, right or 
wrong; hang them first, and judge them afterwards?" 
— *' Oh, sir," saya the old pilot, " there's no need to 
linake a formal business of it with such rogues as those ; 
'let them tie them back to back, and set them a-diving ; 
!it is no more than they richly deserve. " 
; I knew I had my old man fast aboard, and that hecould 
ido me no harm, so that I turned short upon him. " Well 
jnow, seignior," said I, "and this is the very reason 
I why I would have yon carry us up to Nanking, and not 
I to put back to Macao, or to any other part of the country 
I where the English or Dutch ships come i for be it 
I known to you, seignior, those captains of the English 
land Dutch ships are a parcel of rash, proud, insolent 
' fellows, that neither know what belongs to justice, or 
.how to behave themselves as the laws of Cod and 
j Nature direct ; but being proud of their offices, and not 
' imderstanding their power, they would act the mur- 
Jderera to punish robbers; would take upon them to 
' insult men falsely accused, and determine them guilty 

! without due inquiry, and perhaps I may live to call 
some of them to an account for it, where they may be 
taught how justice is to be executed, and that no man 
ought to be treated as a criminal till some evidence may 
be had of the crime, and that he is the man." 
With this I told him that this was the very ship 
Ithey attacked, and gave him a full account of the 
Bkirinish we had with their boats, and how foolishly 
and coward-like they behaved. I told him all the 
Story of our buying the ship, and how the Dutchmen 
aerved us. I told him the reasons I had to believe 
■ihat this story of killing the master by the Malayans was 
not tru^ as also the running away with the ship ; but 
tfaat it was all a fiction of their own to suggest that the 



238 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

men were turned pirates ; and they ought to have been 
sure it was so before they had ventured to attack 
us by surprise, and oblige us to resist them ; adding, 
that they would have the blood of those men whom 
we killed there in our just defence to answer for. 

The old man was amazed at this relation, and told 
us we were very much in the right to go away to the 
north, and that if he might advise us, it should be to 
sell the ship in China, which we might very well do, 
and buy or build another in the country; **and," 
said he, " though you will not get so good a ship, yet 
you may get one able enough to carry you and all your 
goods back again to Bengal, or anywhere else/' 

I told him I would take his advice when I came to 
any port where I could find a ship for my turn, or get 
any customer to buy this. He replied, I should meet 
with customers enough for the ship at Nanking, and 
that a Chinese junk would serve me very well to go 
back again ; and that he would procure me people both 
to buy one and sell the other. 

"Well, but, seignior,'* says I, **a8 you say they 
know the ship so well, I may, perhaps, if I follow 
your measures, be instrumental to bring some honest 
innocent man into a terrible broil, and perhaps to be 
murdered in cold blood ; for wherever they find the 
ship they will prove the guilt upon the men by proving 
this was the ship, and so innocent men may probably 
be overpowered and murdered." — " Why," says the 
old man, " I will find out a way to prevent that also ; 
for as I know all those commanders you speak of very 
well, and shall see them all as they pass by, I will be 
sure to set them to rights in the thing, and let them 
know that they had been so much in the wrong, that 
though the people who were on board at first might run 
away with the ship, yet it was not true that they had 
turned pirates ; and that in particular these were not the 



m 



FADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



went off with the ship, but innocently 
bought her far their trade ; and I am persuaded they 
will so far believe me as at least to act more cautiously 
for the time to come."— " Well," says I, "and will 
you deliver one message to them from me ? " — " Yea, 
I will," says he, " if you will give it under your hand 
to writing, thiit I may be able to prove that it came 
from you, and not out of my own head." I answered 
that I would readily give it him under my hand ; so I 
took a pen and ink and paper, and wrote at large the 
story of assaulting me with the longboats, &c., the 
pretended reason of it, and the unjust cruel design of 
it, and concluded to the commanders that they had 
done what they not only should have been ashamed of, 
but also that if ever they came to England, and I 
lived to see them there, they should all pay dearly for 
it if the laws of my country were not grown out of use 
before I arrived there. 

My old pilot read this over and over again, and 
asked me several times if I would stand to it. I 
answered, I would stand to it as long as I had anything 
left ia the world, being sensible that I should one 
lime or other find an opportunity to put it home to 
them. But we had no occasion ever to let the pilot 
carry this letter, for he never went back again. While 
those things were passing between us by way of dis- 
course, we went forward directly for Nanking, and in 
about thirteen days' sail came to an anchor at the 
Bouth-west point of the great gulf of Nanking ; where, 
by the way, I came by accident to understand that 
two Dutch ships were gone the length before me, and 
that I should certainly fall into their hands. I con- 
sulted my partner again in this exigency, and he was as 
much at a loss as I was, and wodd very gladly have 
been safe on shore almost anywhere. However, I was 
not in such perplexity neither, but I asked the old pilot 



240. ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

if there was no creek or harbour which I might 
into, and pursue my business with the Chinese privately, 
and be in no danger of the enemy. He told me if I 
would sail to the southward about two and forty leagues 
there was a little port called Quinchang, where the 
fathers of the mission usually landed from Macao od 
their progress to teach the Christian religion to the 
Chinese, and where no European ships ever put b; 
and if I thought to put in there, I might consider 
what farther course to take when I was ashore. He 
confessed, he said, it was not a place for merchants, 
except that at some certain times they had a kind of a 
fair diere, when the merchants from Japan came over 
to buy the Chinese merchandises. 

We all agreed to go back to this place ; the name of 
the port, as he called it, I may, perhaps, spell wrong, 
for I do not particularly remember it, having lost this 
together with the names of many other places set down 
in a little pocket-book, which was spoiled by the water, 
on an accident, which I shall relate in its order ; bat 
this I remember, that the Chinese or Japanese mer- 
chants we corresponded with called it by a differing 
name from that which our Portuguese pilot gave it, 
and pronounced it, as above, Quinchang. 

As we were unanimous in our resolutions to go to 
this place, we weighed the next day, having only gone 
twice ashore, where we were to get fresh water; 
on both which occasions the people of the country 
were very civil to us, and brought us abundance of 
things to sell to us ; I mean of provisions, plants, 
roots, tea, rice, and some fowls ; but nothing without 
money. 

We came to the other port (the wind being contrary) 
not till five days ; but it was very much to our satis- 
faction, and I was joyful, and I may say thankful» 
when I set my foot safe on shore, resolving, and v^) 



UVENTUBES OF 



too, chat if it was passible to dispose of our- 
BCives and effects any other way, though not every way 
to our satisfaction, we would never set one foot on 
board that unhappy vessel more ; and itideed I muat 
acknowledge, that of all the circumstanceB of life that 
ever I had any experience of, nothing makes mankind 
so completely miserable as that of being in constant 
fear. Well does the Scripture say, " The fear of man 
brings a snare ; " it is a life of death, and the mind is bo 
I entirely suppressed by it, that it is capable of no relief; 
the animal spirits sink, and all the vigour of nature, 
which usually supports men under other afflictions, and 
is present to them in the greatest exigencies, fails theni 

Nor did it fail of its usual operations upon the fancy 
by heightening every danger, representing the English 
I and Dutch cajitains to be men incapable of hearing 
rrason, or of distinguishing between honest men and 
rogues ; or between a story calculated for our own 
' turn, made out of nothing, on purpose to deceive, and 
a true genuine account of our whole voyage, progress, 
and design ; for we might many ways have convinced 
' any reasonable creature that we were not pirates ; the 
goods we had on board, the course we steered, our 
i ^nkly showing ourselves, and entering into such and 
cuch ports ; and even our very manner, the force we 
bad, the number of men, the few arms, little ammuni- 
tion, short provisions ; all these would have served to 
tonvince any men that we were no pirates. The 
JOpium and other goods we had on hoard would make 
$t appear the ship had been at Bengal ; the Dutchmen, 
i^ho, it was said, had the names of all the men that 
Iwere in the ship, might easily see that we were a 
'■"— *tture of English, Portuguese, and Indians, and but 
1 Dutchmen on board. These, and many other 
circumstances, might have made it evident to 



342 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

the understanding of any commander^ whose hands we 
might fall into, that we were no pirates. 

But fear» that blind useless passion, worked another 
way, and threw us into the vapours ; it bewildered our 
understandings, and set the imagination at work to 
form a thousand terrible things that, perhaps, might 
never happen. We first supposed, as indeed every- 
body had related to us, that the seamen on board die 
English and Dutch ships, but especially the Dutch, 
were so enraged at the name of a pirate, and especially 
at our beating off their boats and escaping, that they 
would not give themselves leave to inquire whether we 
were pirates or no, but would execute us offhand, 
as we call it, without giving us any room for a defence. 
We reflected that there was really so much apparent 
evidence before them, that they would scarce inquire 
after any more; as first, that the ship was certainly 
the same, and that some of the seamen among them 
knew her, and had been on board her ; and secondly, 
that when we had intelligence at the river of Cambodia 
that they were coming down to examine us, we fought 
their boats and fled ; so that we made no doubt but 
they were fully satisfied of our being pirates, as we 
were satisfied of the contraiy ; and as I often said, I know 
not but I should have been apt to have taken those 
circumstances for evidence if the tables were turned, 
and my case was theirs, and have made no scruple of 
cutting all the crew to pieces, without believing, or 
perhaps considering, what they might have to ofo in 
their defence. 

But let that be how it will, those were our appre- 
hensions ; and both my partner and I too scarce slept 
a night without dreaming of halters and yard-arms, 
that is to say, gibbets ; of fighting, and being taken ; 
of killing, and being killed ; and one night I was in 
such a fury in my dream, fancying the Dutchmen had 



ttnuded us, 



(VENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 






jcking ( 






' down, that I struck my double iist agaiaat the side of 
' the cabin I lay in with such a force as wounded my hand 
mOBt grievously, broke my knuckles, and cut and bruised 
' the flesh, so that it not ooly waked me out of my sleep, 
but ] was once afraid I should have lost two of my 
liQgers. 

Another apprehension I had was, of the cruel usage 
we might meet with from them if we fell into their 
hands ; thea the story of Amboyna came into my head, 
aDd how the Dutch might, perhaps, torture us, as they 
did our countrymeQ there ; and make some of the men, 
by extremity of torture, confess those crimes they never 
. were guilty of ; own themselves, and all of us, to be 
'{nrates; and bo they would put us to death, with a 
formal appearance of justice ; and that they might be 
tempted to do this for the gain of our ship and cargo, 
which was worth four or five thousand pounds, put 



, and my partner too, 
isider that the captains 



lid not answer 
would be ac- 
iio their own 



aL together. 

I These things tormenttd 
, night and day; nor did we 
' of ships have no authority 

surrendered prisoners to them, they C' 
I the destroying us, or torturing us, bi 
■ countable for it when they came 
' country. This, I say, gave me no satisfaction ; for 
'if they will act thus with us, what advantage would it 
|be to US that they would be called to an account for 

it; or if we were first to be murdered, what satisfac- 
! doD would it be to us to have them punished when 
r they came home i 

I cannot refrain taking notice here what reflections 
f 1 now had upon the past variety of my particular cir- 
ices ; how hard I thought it was that I, who 

Iiad spent forty years in a life of continued diHiculdes, 
at last come, as it were, to the poit or haven 



344 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

which all men drive at, viz., to have rest and plenty, 
should be a volunteer in new sorrows by my own 
unhappy choice; and that I, who escaped so many 
dangers in my youth, should now come to be hanged 
in my old age, and in so remote a place, for a crime I 
was not in the least inclined to, much less really guilty 
of; and in a place and circumstance, where innocence 
was not like to be any protection at all to me. 

After these thoughts, something of religion would 
come in ; and I would be considering that this seemed 
to me to be a disposition of immediate Providence, 
and I ought to look upon it, and submit to it, as such ; 
that although I was innocent as to men, I was hr from 
being innocent as to my Maker ; and I ought to look 
in and examine what other crimes in my life were 
more obvious to me, and for which Providence might 
justly inflict this punishment as a retribution ; and that 
I ought to submit to this, just as I would to a ship- 
wreck, if it had pleased God to have brought such a 
disaster upon me. 

In its turn, natural courage would sometimes take 
its place, and then I would be talking myself up to 
vigorous resolutions, that I would not be taken to be 
barbarously used by a parcel of merciless wretches in 
cold blood ; that it were much better to have fallen into 
the hands of the savages, who were men-eaters, and who, 
I was sure, would feast upon me when they had taken 
me, than by those who would perhaps glut their rage 
upon me by inhuman tortures and barbarities ; that in 
the case of the savages I always resolved to die fighting 
to the last gasp ; and why should I not do so, seeing 
it was much more dreadful, to me at least, to think of 
falling into these men's hands, than ever it was to 
think of being eaten by men ? for the savages, give them 
their due, would not eat a man till he was dead, and 
killed him first, as we do a bullock ; but that these 



f ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 345 

many aits beyond the cruelty of death. 
W^henever these thoughts prevailed, I waa sure to put 
myself in a kind of fever with the agitationa of a 
supposed fight ; my blood would boil, and my eyes 
sparkle, as if I waa engaged ; and I alwaya resolved 
that I would take no quarter at their hands ; but even 

last, if I could resist do longer, I would blow up the 
ship, and all that was in her, and leave them but little 
booty to boast of. 

" how much the greater weight the anxieties 
and perplexities of these things were to our thoughts 
while we were at sea, by so much the greater was our 
satisfaction when we saw ourselves on ahore ; and my 

Cer told me he dreamed that he had a very heavy 
upon his back, which he was to carry up a hill, 
found that he was not able to stand long under it, 
but that the Portuguese pilot came and took it off his 
back, and the hill disappeared, the ground before him 
ihowing all smooth and plain ; and truly it was so ; we 
f/ete all like men wbo had a load taken ojf their backs. 
For my prt, I had a weight taken off from my 
heart that 1 was not able any longer to bear ; and, as 
I said above, we resolved to go no more to sea in that 
ihip. When we came on shore the old pilot, who 
was now our friend, got us a lodging, and a warehouse 
for our goods, which, by the way, waa much the same, 
little house, or hut, with a large house joining 
to it, all built with canes, and palisadoed round with 
large canes to keep out pilfering thieves, of which, it 
seems, there were not a few in that country. However, 
the magistrates allowed us also a little guard, and we 
had a sentinel with a kind of halberd, or half pike, who 
Stood sentinel at our door, to whom we allowed a pint 
of rice and a little piece of money, about the value 
of threepence, per day ; ao that our goods were kept 
very sati;. 



346 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

The fair or mart usually kept in this place had been 
over some time ; however, we found that there were 
three or four junks in the river, and two Japanners 
(I mean ships from Japan), with goods which they 
had bought in China, and were not gone away, having 
Japanese merchants on shore. 

The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us 
was to bring us acquainted with three missionary Roniish 
priests who were in the town, and who had been there 
some time converting the people to Christianity ; but 
we thought they made but poor work of it, and made 
them but sorry Christians when they had done. How- 
ever, that was none of our business. One of these was 
a Frenchman, whom they called Father Simon. He 
was a jolly, well-conditioned man, very free in his con- 
versation, not seeming so serious and grave as the other 
two did, one of whom was a Portuguese, and the other 
a Genoese ; but Father Simon was courteous, easy in 
his manner, and very agreeable company ; the other two 
were more reserved, seemed rigid and austere, and 
applied seriously to the work they came about, viz., to 
talk with, and insinuate themselves among, the inhabi- 
tants wherever they had opportunity. We often ate 
and drank with those men ; and though I must confess 
the conversion, as they call it, of the Chinese to Chris- 
tianity is so far from the true conversion required to 
bring heathen people to the faith of Christ, that it seems 
to amount to little more than letting them know the 
name of Christ, and say some prayers to the Virgin Mary 
and her Son in a tongue which they understand not, 
and to cross themselves and the like ; yet it must be 
confessed that these religious, whom we call mission- 
aries, have a firm belief that these people shall be saved, 
and that they are the instruments of it ; and on this 
account they undergo not only the fatigue of the voyage, 
and hazards of living in such places, but oftentimes death 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 247 

itself, with the most violent tortures, for the sake of this 
work J and it would be a great want of charity in us, 
whatever opinion we have of the work itself, and the 
manner of their doing it, if we should not have a good 
opinion of their zeal, who undertook it with ao many 
hazards, and who have no prospeci: of the least temporal 
advantage to themselves. 

But to return to my story. This French priest, Father 
Simon, was appointed, it seems, by order of the chief of 
the miflsion to go up to Peking, die royal seat of the 
Chinese emperor, and waited only for another priest, 
who was ordered to come to him from Macao to go 
along with him ; and we scai'ce ever met together but 
he was inviting me to go that journey, telling me how 
he would show me all the glorious things of thai 
mighty empire, and among the rest the greatest city 
in the world; a city, said he, that your London and 
our Paris, put together, cannot be equal to. This was 
the city of Peking, which, I confess, is very great, and 
infinitely full of people j but as I looked on those 
things with different eyes from other men, so I shall 
give my opinion of them in few words when I come 
in the course of ray travels to speak more particularly 
of them. 

But first I come to ray friar or missionary. Dining 
with him one day, and being very merry together, I 
showed some little inclination to go with him ; and he 
pressed me and my partner very hard, and with a great 
many persuasions, to consent. "Why, Father Simon." 
saya ray partner, " why should you desire our company 
so much ! You know we are heretics, and you do not 
love us, nor cannot keep us company with any plea- 
sure." — " Oh I " saya be, " you may, perhaps, be good 
Catholics in time ; my business here is to convert 
heathens, and who knows but I may convert you 
too?" — "Very well, father," said I, "so you will 



w 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1 

1 all the way." — " I won't be troubleS^^ 
ys he i " our religion doea Dot divest u 
good manners ; besides," says he, " we are here like 
countrymen ; and so we are, compared to the place Wt 
arc in ; and if you are Huguenott, and I a Catholic, 
we may be all Christiang at last ; at least," said he, 
" we are all gentlemen, and we may converse so with- 
out being uneasy to one another." I liked that pui 
of his discourse very well, and it began to put me in 
mind of my priest that I had left in the Brazils ; but 
this Father Simon did not come up to his character by 
a great deal ; lor though Father Simon had no appear- 
ance of a criminal levity in him neither, yet he had not 
that fund of Christian zeal, strict piety, and sincere 
affection to religion that my other good ecclesiastic 
had, of whom I have said so much. 

But to leave him a litde, though he never left us, 
nor soliciting us to go with him, but we had something 
else before us at first ; for we iiad all this while 
our ship and our merchandise todispoBC of; and we 
began to be very doubtful what we should do, for we 
were now in a place of very little business ; and once I 
was about to venture to sail for the river of Eilam and 
the city of Nanking j but Providence seemed now more 
visibly, as I thought, than ever lo concern itself in our 
affair ; and I was encouraged from this very time to 
think I should, one way or other, get out of this 
tangled circumstance, and be brought home to my own 
country again, though I had not the least view of the 
manner ; and when I began sometimes to think of it, 
could not imagine by what method it was to be done ; 
Providence, I say, began here to clear up our way a 
little i and the Jiret thing that offered was, that our old 
Portuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant to us, who 
began to inquire what goods we had j and, in the first 
place, he bought all our opium, and gave us a very good 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 249 

price for it, paying us id gold by weight, some in small 

pieces of their own coin, and some in small wedges, of 

about ten or eleveo ounces each. While we were 

dealing with him for our opium, it came into my head 

that he might, perhaps, deal with us for the ship too ; 

and I ordered the interpreter to propose it to him. He 

shrunk up his shoulders at it when it was first proposed 

to him ; but in a few days after he came to me, with 

one of the missionary priests for his interpreter, and 

told me he had a propoeai to make to me, and that was 

this : he had bought a great quantity of goods of us 

when he had no thoughts, or proposals made to him, 

of buying the ship, and that, therefore, he had not 

money enough to pay for the ship ; but if I would let 

the same men who were in the ship navigate her, he 

would hire the ship to go to Japan, and would send 

them from thence to the Philippine Islands with another 

; loading, which he would pay the freight of before they 

went from Japan ; and that, at their return, he would 

buy the ship. 1 began to listeit to his proposal ; and 

\ so eager did my head still run upon rambling, that I 

I could oot but begin to entertiin a notion of going 

myself with him, and to sail from the Philippine 

Islands away to the South Seas ; and accordingly I 

\ asked the Japan merchant if he would not hire us 10 

> the Philippine Islands, and difichargeus there. He said 

I no, he could not do that, for then he could not have 

L the return of his cargo ; but he would discharge us in 

Japan, he said, at the shift's return. Well, still I was 

for taking him at that proposal, and going myself; but 

my partner, wiser than myself, persuaded me from it, 

representing the dangers as well of the seas as of the 

Japanese, who are a false, cruel, and treacherous people ; 

'icD of the Spaniards at the Philippines, more false, 

cruel, and more treacherous than they. 

But 10 bringthis long turn of our affairs to aconclusion 



4 



250 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

The first thing we had to do was to coosult with the 
captain of the ship and with his men, and know if 
they were willing to go to Japan ; and while I was 
doing this, the young man whom, as I said, my nephew 
had left with me as my companion for my travels, came 
to me, and told me that he thought that voyage promised 
very fair, and that there was a great prospect of advan- 
tage, and he would be very glad if I undertook it ; 
but that if I would not, and would give him leave, he 
would go as a merchant, or how I pleased to order 
him ; that if ever he came to England, and I was there, 
and alive, he would render me a faithful account of 
his success, and it should be as much mine as I 
pleased. 

I was really loath to part with him ; but considering 
the prospect of advantage, which was really considerable, 
and that he was a young fellow as likely to do well in it 
as any I knew, I inclined to let him go ; but first I 
told him I would consult my partner, and give him an 
answer the next day. My partner and I discoursed 
about it, and my partner made a most generous offer. 
He told me, " You know it has been an unlucky ship, 
and we both resolve not to go to sea in it again ; if 
your steward (so he called my man) will venture the 
voyage, I'll leave my share of the vessel to him, and 
let him make his best of it ; and if we live to meet in 
England, and he meets with success abroad, he shall 
account for one-half of the profits of the ship's freight 
to us, the other shall be his own." 

If my partner, who was no way concerned with my 
young man, made him such an offer, I could do no 
less than offer him the same ; and all the ship's com- 
pany being willing to go with him, we made over half 
the ship to him in property, and took a writing from 
him, obliging him to account for the other ; and away 
he went to Japan. The Japan merchant proved a 



■adventures c 



HINSON CRUSOE. 



punctual honeat man to him, protected him at 
Japan, and got him a licence to come oo shore, which 
the Europeans in genera] have not lately obtained, 
paid him his freight very punctually, sert him to the 
Philippines, loaded with Japn and China wares, and 
a supercargo of their own, who trafficking with the 
Spaniards brought b;ick European goods again, and a 
great quantity of clovea and other spices ; and there he 
was not only paid his freight very well, and at a 
very good price, but being not willing to sell the ship 
then, the merchant furniahed him with goods on hi» 
own account ; that for some money and some spices of 
his own, which he brought with him, he went back to 
the Manillas, to the Spaniards, where he sold his 
cargo very well. Here having gotten a good acquaint- 
aoce at Manilla, he got his ship made a free ship ; 
and the governor of Manilla hired him to go to 
Acapuico, in America, on the coast of Mexico ; and 
gave him a licence to land there, and travel to 
Mexico ! and to pass in any Spanish ship to Europe, 
with all his men. 

He made the voyage to Acapuico very happily, and 
there he sold his ship ; and having there also obtained 
allowance to travel by land to Porto Bello, he found 
means somehow or other to get to Jamaica with all 
hia treasure, and about eight years after came to 
England exceeding rich, of the which I shall take 
notice in its plnce ; in the meantime, I return to our 
particular affairs. 

Being now to part with the ship and ship's company, 
it came before us, of course, to consider what recora- 
penee we should give to the two men that they gave us 
such umely nouce of the design against us in the river 
of Cambodia. The truth was, that they had done us 
3 connderable service, and deserved well at our hands, 
though, by the way, they were a couple of rogues too ; 




252 ADVENTURSS OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

for as they believed the story of our being pirates, and 
that we had really run away with the ship, they came 
down to us not only to betray the design that was 
formed against us, but to go to sea with us as pirates ; 
and one of them confessed afterwards that nothing 
else but the hopes of going a-roguing brought him to 
do it. However, the service they did us was not the 
less ; and therefore, as I had promised to be grateful 
to them, I first ordered the money to be paid to them 
which they said was due to them on board their respec- 
tive ships ; that is to say, the Englishman nineteen 
months' pay, and to the Dutchman seven; and over 
and above that I gave them, each of them, a small 
sum of money in gold, and which contented them very 
well. Then I made the Englishman gunner in the ship, 
the gunner being now made second mate and purser ; 
the Dutchman I made boatswain ; so they were both 
very well pleased, and proved very serviceable, being 
both able seamen, and very stout fellows. 

We were now on shore in China. If I thought 
myself banished and remote from my own country at 
Bengal, where I had many ways to get home for my 
money, what could I think of myself now, when I was 
gotten about a thousand leagues farther off from home, 
and perfectly destitute of all manner of prospect of 
return ? 

All we had for it was this, that in about four months' 
time there was to be another fair at the place where we 
were, and then we might be able to purchase all sorts 
of the manufactures of the country, and witha! might 
possibly find some Chinese junks or vessels from Ton- 
quin that would be to be sold, and would carry us and 
our goods whither we pleased. This I liked very well, 
and resolved to wait ; besides, as our particular persons 
were not obnoxious, so if any English or Dutch ships 
came thither, perhaps we might have an opportunity to 



I ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CSUSOE. 



^^^H AD' 

pStniur goods, and get passage to some other plac 
f India Dearer home. 
I Upon these hopes we resolved to continue here ; but 
I to divert ourselves we took two or three journeys into 
I the country. First, we went tea days' journey to see the 

city of Nanking, a city welJ worth seeing indeed j they 
I sa.y it has a million of people in it, which, however, I 
I do not believe. It is regularly built, the streets all 
I exactly straight, and cross one another in direct lines, 

which gives the figure of it great advantage. 

But when I come to compare the miserdble people 

of these countries with ours, their fabrics, their manner 

of living, their government, their religion, their wealth, 
I and their glory, as some call it, I must confess I do 
I not so much as think it is worth naming, or worth my 
; while to write of, or any that shall come after me to 

It !b very observable that we wonder at the grandeur, 
' the richcB, the pomp, the ceremooiea, the government, 
' the manufaccurefl, the commerce, and the conduct of 
I these people; not that it is to be wondered, at, or, 
I indeed, in the least to be regarded ; but because, having 
first a true notion of the barbarity of those countries, the 
rudeness and the ignorance that prevails there, we do not 
l' expect to find any such things so far off. 

Otherwise, what are their buildings to the palaces 
I and royal buildings of Europe ? What ia their trade 
I to the imiversal commerce of England, Holland, 
I France, and Spain ? What are their cities to oura for 
wealth, strength, gaiety of apparel, rich hirniture, and 
an infinite variety ? What are their ports, supplied with 
J a few junks and barks, to our navigation, our merchant 
fleets, our large and powerful navies ? Our city of 
London has more trade than all their mighty em- 
pire. One English, or Dutch, or French man-of-war 
of eighty guns would fight and destroy all the 



their wSBSI 

and Btrengtb ^ 



h 



154 ADVENTURES OK ROBIN 

sbipping of China. But the greatness of their 
their trade, the power of their government, and Btrengtb 
of their armies, is aurprisiDg to us, because, as I have 
laid, coDsidering them as a barbarous oadon of pagans, 
little better than savages, we did not expect such ihingt 
among them ; and this, indeed, is the advantage vntli 
which all their greatness and power is represented to 
ua, otherwise it is in itself nothing at all. For as I 
have said of their ships, so may be said of their armies 
and troops; all the forces of their empire, though they 
were to bring two millions of men into the field together, 
would be able 10 do nothing but ruin the country, and 
starve themselves. If they were to besiege a strong 
town in Flanders, or to iighi a disciplined army, one 
line of German cuirassiers, or of French eavaby, would 
overthrow all the horse of China ; a million of their 
foot could not stand before one embattled body of out 
infentry, posted so as not to be surrounded, thoagh they 
were to be not one to twenty in number ; nay, I do 
not boast if I say that 30,000 German or English 
foot, and 10,000 French horse, would fairly beat all 
the forces of China. And so of our fortified towns, 
and of the art of our engineers, in assaulting and 
defending towns ; there's not a fortified town in 
China could hold out one month against the batteries 
and attacks of an European army ; and al the same 
time, all the armies in China could never take such i 
town as Dunkirk, provided it was not starved ; no, 
not in ten years' siege. They have firearms, 'tis 
true, but they are awkward, clumsy, and uncertain in 
going oif ; they have powder, but it is of no strength ; 
they have neither discipline in the field, exercise to 
their annB, skill to attack, or temper to retreat} and 
I must confess it seemed strange to me when 
tme and hesrd our people say Buch fine things 
^ of the r-nwer, riches, glory, magnificence, and trade of 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 255 

the Chinese, because I saw and knew that they we 
contemptible herd or crowd of ignorant, sordid akves, 
subjected to a government qualified only to rule such a 
people ; and, in a word, for I am now launched quite 
beside my design, I aay, in a word, were not its dis- 
tance inconceivably great from Muscovy, and was cot 
the Muscovite empire almost as rude, impotent, and 
ill-governed a crowd of slaves as they, the Czar of 
Muscovy might, with much ease, drive them all out of 
their country, and conquer them in one campaign ; and 
had the Czar, who I since hear is s growing pi-ince, and 
begins to appear formidable in the world, l^en this 
way instead of attacking the warlike Swedes, in which 
attempt none of the powers of Europe would have 
envied or interrupted him, he might, by this time, 
have been Emperor of China, instead of being beaten 
by the King of Sweden at Narva, when the latter was 
DOC one to six in number. 

As thnr strength and their grandeur, so their naviga- 
tion, commerce, and husbandry ia imperfect and impotent 
compared to the same things in Europe. Also in their 
knowledge, their learning, their skill in the sciences ; 
they have globes and spheres, and a smatch of the know- 
ledge of the mathematics ; but when you come to inquire 
into their knowledge, how short-sighted are the wisest 
of their students I They know nothing of the motion of 
the heavenly bodies ; and so grossly, absurdly ignorant, 
that when the sun is eclipsed they think 'tis a great 
dragon has assaulted and run away with it, and they fall 
a-claitering with all the drums and kettles in the country 
to fright the monster away, just as we do to hive a 
Bwarm of beee. 

As this ia the only excursion of this kind which I 
have made in all the account I have given of my travels, 
•o I shall make no more descriptions of countries and 
people; 'tis none of my buNoess, or any part of my 



256 ADVENTURSS OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

design, but giving an account of my own adyentures, 
through a life of inimitable wanderings, and a long 
variety of changes, which, perhaps, few that come after 
me will have heard the like of. I shall, therefore, say 
very little of all the mighty places, desert countries, and 
numerous people I have yet to pass through, more than 
relates to my own story, and which my concern among 
them will make necessary. I was now, as near as I 
can compute, in the heart of China, about the latitude 
of thirty degrees north of the line, for we were returned 
from Nanking. I had, indeed, a mind to see the city of 
Peking, which I had heard so much of, and Father Simon 
importuned me daily to do it. At length his time of 
going away being set, and the other missionary, who 
was to go with him, being arrived from Macao, it was 
necessary that we should resolve either to go, or not to 
go ; so I referred him to my partner, and left it wholly 
to his choice, who at length resolved it in the affirma- 
tive, and we prepared for our journey. 

We set out with very good advantage as to finding 
the way ; for we got leave to travel in the retinue of 
one of their mandarins, a kind of viceroy, or principal 
magistrate, in the province where they reside, and who 
take great state upon them, travelling with great attend- 
ance, and with great homage from the people, who are 
sometimes greatly impoverished by them, because all the 
countries they pass through are obliged to furnish pro- 
visions for them, and all their attendance. That which 
I particularly observed as to our travelling with his bag- 
gage, was this, that though we received sufficient pro- 
visions, both for ourselves and our horses, from the 
country, as belonging to the mandarin, yet we were 
obliged to pay for everything we had after the market- 
price of the country, and the mandarin's steward, or 
commissary of the provisions, collected it duly from us ; 
so that our travelling in the retinue of the mandarin. 



ABVIimJBES OF ROBINSON CRtTSOE. 257 * 

though it was a very great kindness to ua, was not such 
a mighty favour in him, but was, iodced, a great a 
tage to him, considering there were above thirty other 
people travelled in the same manner besides us, under 
the protection of hia retinue, or, as we may call it, 
under his convoy ; this, I say, was a great advantage 
to him, for the country furnished all the provisions for 
nothing, and he took all our money for them. 

We were five and twenty days travelling to Peking, 
through a country infinitely populous, but miserably 
cultivated ; the husbandry, the economy, and the way 
of living miserable, though they boast so much of the 
industry of the people ; I say miserable ; and so it is, 
if we, who understand how to five, were to endure it, 
or to compare it with our own ; but not so to these 
poor wretches, who know no other. The pride of 
these people is infinitely great, and exceeded by nothing 
but their poverty, which adds to that which I call 
their misery ; and I must needs think the naked savages 
of America live much more happy, because, as they 
hare nothing, ed they desire nothing i whereas these 
are proud and insolent, and, in the main, are mere 
beggars and drudges ; their ostentation is inexpressible, 
and ischiefiy showed in their clothes and buildings, and 
in keeping multitudes of servants or slaves ; and which 
is to the Inst degree ridiculous, their contempt of all 
the world but themselves. 

I must confess I travelled more pleasandy after- 
wards in the deserts and vast wildernesses of Grand 
Tartary than here ; and yet the roads here are well 
paved and well kept, and very convenient for travellers ; 
but nothing was more awkward to me than to see such 
3 haughty, imperious, insolent people in the midst of 
the grossest simplicity and ignorance, for all their famed 
ingenuity is no more ; and my friend Father Simon 
and I used to be very merry upon these o 



w 



ADVENTURES OF BOBINSOI* CRUSOl 



as Father 



sre die beggarly pride of those people. For 
coming by the house of a country gentleman, 
Simon called him, about ten leagues off of the dtyof 
Nanking, we had, first of all, the honour to tide mth 
the master of the house about two miles ; the state be 
rode in was a perfect Don Quixotism, being a mixiute 
of pomp and poverty. 

The habit ol this greasy Don was very proper for a 
scaramouch or merry-andrew, being a dirty calico, witli. 
ail the tawdry and trapping of a fool's coat, such aa 
hanging sleeves, tassels, and cuts and slashes almost on 
every side ; it covered a taffeta vest, as greasy as a 
butcher, and which testified that his honour must needs 
be a moat exquisite sloven. His horse was a poor, 
lean, starved, hobbling creature, such as tn Englaiul 
might sell Ibr about thirty or forty shillings ; and he 
had two slaves followed him on foot, to drive the poor 
creature along. He had a whip in his haod, and he 
belaboured the beast as fast about the head as his slave) 
did about the tail ; and thus he rode by us with about 
ten or twelve servants ; and we were told he was going 
from the city to his country seat, about half a league 
before us. We travelled on gently, but thia figure of 
a gentleman rode away before us, and we stopped at a 
village about an hour to refresh us. 

When we came by the country seat of this great 
man, we saw him in a little place before his door, eating 
his repast, tl was a kind of a garden, but he was easy 
to be seen i and we were given to understand that the 
more we looked on him, the better he would be pleased. 
He sat under a tree, something like the palmetto-tree^ 
which eDectually shaded him over the head, and on 
the south aide ; but under the tree also was placed a 
large umbrella, which made that part look well enough. 
t lolling back in a great elbow-chair, bang ■ 
heavy, corpulent man, and his meat being brou^iht him 



ADVENTURES OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. 259 

by two women alaves. He had two more, whose 
office, I think, few gentlemen in Europe would accept 
of their service in, viz., one fed the aquire with a apoon, 
and the other held the dish with one hand, and scraped 
off what he let fall upon his worship's beard and taffeta 
vest ; while the great fat brute thought it below him 
to employ his own hands in any of those familiar offices 
which kings and monarchs would rather do than be 
troubled with the clumsy lingers of their servants. 

I took thi» time to think what pains men's pride puts 
them to, and how troublesome a haughty temper, thus 
ill-managed, must be to a man of common-sense ; and 
leaving the poor wretch to please himself with our 
looking at him, as if we admired his pomp, whereas 
we really pitied and contemned him, we pursued our 
journey ; only Father Simon had the curiosity to stay 
to inform himself what dainties the country justice had 
to feed on in all his state ; which he said he had the 
hoDOur to taste of, and which was, I think, a dose that 
1 Gogiish hound would scarce have eaten if it had 
:en offered him, viz., a mess of boiled rice, with a 
great piece of garlic in it, and a little bag filled with 
green pepper, and another plant which they have there, 
something like our ginger, but smelling like musk, and 
tasting like mustard. All this was put together, and a 
amall lump or piece of lean mutton boiled in it ; and 
this was his worship's repast, four or five servants more 
atteoding at a distance. If he fed them meaner 
than he was fed himself, the spice excepted, they 
most &re very coarsely indeed. 

As for our mandarin with whom we travelled, he 
was respected like a king ; surrounded always with his 
gentlemen, and attended in all his appearances with 
luch pomp, that I saw little of him but at a distance ; 
but this I observed, that there was not a horse in his 
retinue but that our carriers' pack-horses in England 



^ 



26o ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

seem to me to look much better; but they were 80 
covered with equipage, mantles, trappings, and soch 
like trumpery, that you cannot see whether they are fat 
or lean ; in a word, we could see scarce anything bat 
their feet and their heads. 

I was now light-hearted, and all my trouble and 

r^lexity that I had given an account of being over, 
had no anxious thoughts about me, which made 
this journey the pleasanter to me ; nor had I any ill 
accident attended me, only in the passing or fording a 
small river my horse fell, and made me free of the 
country, as they call it ; that is to say, threw me in. 
The place was not deep, but it wetted me all over. I 
mention it, because it spoiled my pocket-book, 
wherein I had set down the names of several people 
and places which I had occasion to remember, and 
which, not taking due care of, the leaves rotted, and the 
words were never after to be read, to my great loss as 
to the names of some places I touched at in this 
voyage. 

At length we arrived at Peking. I had nobody with 
me but the youth, whom my nephew, the captain, had 
given me to attend me as a servant, and who proved 
very trusty and diligent ; and my partner had nobody 
with him but one servant, who was a kinsman. As for 
the Portuguese pilot, he being desirous to see the 
court, we gave him his passage, that is to say, bore his 
charges for his company, and to use him as an inter- 
preter, for he understood the language of the country, 
and spoke good French and a little English; and, 
indeed, this old man was a most useful implement to 
us everywhere ; for we had not been above a week at 
Peking, when he came laughing. <<Ah, seignior 
Inglese," says he, << I have something to tell you will 
make your heart glad." — " My heart glad," says I, 
'« what can that be ? I don't know anything in this 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



261 



■■ Why," 



country can either give me joy or grief, to 
degree." — " Yes, yes," said the old man in broken 
English, " make you glad, me sorrow ; " sorry, he 
would have said. This made me more incjuisitire. 
said I, "will it make you sorry?" — " Be- 
laid he, " you have brought me here twenty- 
five days' journey, and will leave me to go back alone ; 
and which way shall I get to my port afterwards, with- 
out a ship, wiihout a horse, without pecune ? " ao he 
called money ; being his broken Latin, of which he 
had abundance to make us merry with. 

In short, he told us there was a great caravan of 
Muscovite and Polish merchantf in the city, and 
they were preparing to set out on their journey, by land, 
to Muscovy within four or five weeks, and he was sure 
we would take the opportunity to go with them, and 
leave him behind to go back ail alone. I confess I was 
Borprised with his news. A secret joy spread itself over 
my whole soul, which I cannot describe, and never felt 
brfore or since ; and I had no power, for a good while, 
to speak a word to the old man ; but at last I turned 
to him. " How do you know this ? " said I ; " are 
you sure it is true ? " — " Yea," says he, " I met this 
morning in the street an old acquaintance of mine, an 
Armenian, or one you call a Grecian, who is among 
them s he came last from Astrakhan, and was designing 
to go to Tonquin, where I formerly knew him, but 
has altered bis mind, and is now resolved to go 
with the caravan to Moscow, and so down the river 
Volga to Astrakhan." — " Well, seignior," says I, " do 
not be uneasy about being left to go back alone. If this 
be a method for my return to England, it shall be 
your fault if you go back to Macao at all," We tlicn 
went to consulting together what was to be done, and I 
aaked my partner what he thought of the pilot's news, 
and whether it would suit with his affairs. He told me 



w 



^ 



OP ROBINSON CRUSOq 

he would do juBi as I would ; for he had settledaStt 
alFairs so well at Bengal, and left hl» effects in such good 
handa, that as we had made a good voyage here, if b 
could vest it in China ailks, wrought and raw, k 
might be worth the carriage, he would be content 
to England, and then make hie voyage back to I 
by the Company's shipa. 

Having resolved upon this, we agreed that if oot 
Portugal pilot would go with ua we would bear his 
charges 10 Moscow, or to England if he pleased j nor, 
indeed, were we to be eateemed over-generous in th 
part neither, if we had not rewarded him farther ; t 
the service he had done us was really worth all that, and 
more ; for he had not only been a pilot to db at eea, but 
he had been like a broker for us on shore; and Ws 
procuring for us the Japan merchant was some hundred ' 
of pounds in our pocket. So we consulted together 
about it i and being willing to gratify him, which was 
indeed but doing him justice, and very wilting alto to 
have him with us besides, for he was a most necessary 
man on all occasions, we agreed to give him a quantity 
of coined gold, which, as I compute it, came to about I 
4^175 sterling between us, and to bear all his charges, 
both for himself and horse, except oiJy a horse to carry 
his goods. 

Having settled this among ourselves, we called him 
CO let him know what we had resolved. I told him 
he had complained of our being to let him go back 
alone, and I was now to tell him we were resolved he 
should not go back at all j that as we had resolved to 
go to Europe with the caravan, we resolved also . 
he should go with us, and that we called him to know . 
his mind. He shook his head, and said it was a long 
journey, and he had no pecune to carry him thither, or 
to subsist himself when he came there. We told him 
we believed it was so, and therefore we had resolved to 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



263 



I Bomething for him that should let him see how sen- 
Bible we were of the senice he had done us, and also 
how agreeable he was to us ; aod then I told him what 
we had resolved to give him here, which he might lay 
out as we would do our own ; and that as for his 
charges, if he would go with us, we would set him safe 
ashore, life and casualties excepted, either in Muscovy 
or England, which he would, at our own charge, ex- 
cept only the carriage of his goods- 
He received the proposal like a man transported, and 
told UB he would go with us over the whole world ; and 
so, in short, we all prepared ourselves for the journey. 
However, as it was with us, so it was with the other 
merchants ; they had many things to do, and instead of 
being ready in five weeks, it was four months and some 
odd days before all things were got together. 

It was the beginning of February, our style, when 
we set out from Peking. My partner and the old pilot 
had gone express back to the port where we had first 
put in, to dispose of some goods which we had left 
there ; and I, with a Chinese merchant, whom I had 
some knowledge of at Nanking, and who came to 
Peking on his own affairs, went to Nanking, where I 
bought ninety pieces of line damasks, with about two 
hundred pieces of other very fine silks, of several sorts, 
Bome mixed with gold, and had all these brought to 
Peking against my partner's return. Besides this, we 
bought a very large quantity of raw silk, and some 
other goods ; our cargo amounting, in these goods only, 
to about three thousand five hundred pounds sterling, 
which, together with tea, and some fine calicoes, and 
three camels' loads of nutmegs and cloves, loaded in all 
eighteen camels for our share, besides those we rode 
upon ; which, with two or three spare horses, and two 
horses loaded with provisions, made us, in short, twenty- 
six camels and horses in our retinue. 



4 



w 



164 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOq 

The company waa very great, and) i 
remember, made between three and four hundred horse, 
and upwards of a hundred and twenty men, very well 
armed, and provided for all evecu ; for, as the eastern 
caravans are subjected to be atucked by the Arabi, so 
are these by theTartars ; but they are not altogether » 
dangeroiw as the Arabs, nor so barbarous when they 

The company conaisied of people of several nations, 
such as Muacovites chiefly ; for there were above ainty 
of thcra who were merchantB or inhabitants of Moscow, 
though of them some were Livonians ; and to our 
particular aatiafaction, five of ihem were Scots, who 
appeared also to be men of great experience in business, 
and men of very good subataoce. 

When we had travelled one day's journey, the 
guides, who were five in number, called aU the gentle- 
men and merchants, that is to say, all the passengers, 
except the servants, to a great council, as they called 
it. At this great council every one deposited h certain 
quantity of money to a common stock for the necessary 
expense of buying forage on the way, where it was not 
otherwise to be had, and for satisfying the guides, 
getting horses, and the like. And here they constituted 
the journey, as they call it, viz., they named captains 
and officers, to draw us all up, and give the command 
in case of an attack, and gave every one their turo of 
command ; nor was this forming us into order an; 
more than what we found needful upon the wavt as 
shall be observed in its place. 

The road all on this aide of the country is very 
populous, and is full of potters and earth makers; that 
is to say, people that tempered the earth for the China 
ware j and as I was coming along, our Portugal pilot, who 
had always something or other to say to make us merryj 
came sneering to me, and told me he would show me 



■ADVENTURES ( 



CRUSOE. 



^=65 



^^reatest rarity in all the country ; and that I should 
have this to say of China, after all the ill-humoured 
things I had said of it, that I had aeen one thing 
which waa not to be seen in all the world beside. I 
was very importunate to know what it was. At last 
he told me it was a gendeman's house, built all with 
China ware. " Well," aaya I, " are not the materials 
of their building the product of their own country ; 
and BO ia ali China ware, is it not?" — "No, no," 
says he, " I mean it is an house all made of China 
ware, such as you call it in England ; or, as it is 
called in our country, porcelain." — " Well," says I, 
"such a thing maybe; how big is it? can we carry 
it in a box upon a camel ? If we can, we will buy 
it." — " Upon a camel ! " aaya the old pilot, holding 
up both his hands ; " why, there is a family of thirty 

I was then curious, indeed, to see it ; and when I 
came to it, it was nothing but this : it was a timber 
house, or a houae built, as we call it in England, with 
lath and plaster, but all the plastering was really China 
ware, that is to say, it was plastered with the earth 
that makes China war& 

The outside, which the sun shone hot upon, was 
glazed, and looked very well, perfect white, and 

fioied with blue figures, as the large China ware id 
ogland is painted, and hard, as if it had been burnt. 
iAe to the inside, all the walla, instead of wainscot, 
were lined up with hardened and painted dies, like the 
litde square tiles we call galley tiles in England, all 
made of the finest china, and the figures exceeding line 
indeed, with extraordinary variety of colours, mixed 
with gold, many tiles making but one figure, but joined 
to artificially, the mortar being made of the same earth, 






hard to see where the tiles n 



e of the s: 



m position, 



The 



w 



m 



166 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRU! 



as hard at the earthen floors we h 
parti of England, e<)pecially Lincolnshire, Nottingli 
shire, Leicestershire, &c., as hard as a stone, and sniooib, 
but not burnt and painted, except aome smaller rooms, 
like closets, which were all, as it were, paved with the 
same tile ; the ceiling and, in a word, all the plaster- 
ing work in the whole house were of the same earth; 
and, after all, the roof was covered with dies of tiie 
same, but of a deep shining black. 

This was a China warehouse indeed, truly and 
literally to be called so ; and had I not been npan the 
journey, I could have stayed some days to see and 
examine the particulars of it. They told me there 
were fountains and tish-ponda in the garden, all paved 
at the bottom and sides with the same, and fine statues 
aet up in rows on the walks, entirely formed of the 
porcelain earth, and burnt whole. 

As this is one of the singularities of China, so they 
may be allowed to excel in it ; but I am very sure they 
excel in their accounts of it, for they told me such in- 
credible things of their performance in crockery-ware, 
for such it is, that I care not to reiate, as knowing it 
could not be true. They told me, in particular, of 
one workman that made a ship, with all its tackle, and 
masts, and sails, in earthenware, big enough to carry 
fifty men. If he had told me he launched it, and 
made a voyage to Japan in it, I might have said some* 
thing to it indeed ; but as it was, I knew the whole 
of the story, which was, in short, asking pardon ibt 
the word, that the fellow lied ; so I smiled, and said 
nothing to it. 

This odd sight kept me two hours behind the 
caravan, for which the leader of it for the day fined 
me about the value of three shillings ; and told me, if 
it had been three days* journey without the wall, as it 
was three days within, he must have fined me four times 



w 

I as much, 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE, 



I aa much, and made me ask pardon the next council- 
day ; so I promised to be more orderly ; for, indeed, 
I found afterward the orders made for keeping all 
together were absolutely neceaaary for our common 

In two days more we passed the great China wail, 
made for a fortification against the Tartars ; and a very 
great work it is, going over hills and mountains in a 
needless track, where the rocks arc impassable, and the 
precipices such as no enemy could possibly enter, or 
indeed climb up, or where, if they did, no wall could 
hinder them. They tell us its length is near a thou- 
sand English miles, but that the country is five hundred 
in a straight measured line, which the wall bounds, 
without measuring the windings and turnings it takes ; 
'tis about four fathoms high, and as many thick in some 
pl.ce.. 

I Stood still an hour, or 1 
passing our orders, for so long the c<i 
passing the gate ; I say, I stood still an 
at it on every side, near, and far off; I n 
within my view ; and the guide of our car 
been extolling it for the wonder of the world, \ 
mighty eager to hear my opinion of it. I told him it 
was a most excellent thing to keep off the Tartars, 
which he happened not to understand as I meant it, and 
BO took it for a compliment ; but the old pilot laughed. 
" O seignior Inglese," says he, "you speak in colours." 
I " In colours ! " said I ; " what do you mean by that ? " 
' " Why, you speak what looks white this way, and black 
I that way — gay one way, and dull another way. You 
tell him it is a good wall to keep out Tartars ; you tell 
me, by that, it is good for nothing but to keep out 
Tartars, or it will keep out none but Tartars. I under- 
stand you, seignior Ipglese, I understand you," says he 
;se understood you his own way." 



, without tres- 

in, that was 
in, who had 



F 



ADVENTURES OF I 



" Well," 



ink iiwtt ■ 






«ay« I, " seignior, do you 
etand out an army of our couotry-people, with 

of aitillcry, or our engineers, with 
ol miners ? Would not they baiter it down in ten dayi, 
that an army might enter in battalia, or blow it up ia 
the air, foiuidadon and all, that there should be no 
Kign of it left I " — " Ah, ah ! " says he, " I know that" 
The Chinese wanted mightily to know what I said, and 
1 gave him leave to tell him a few days aiter, for he 
was then almost out of their country, and he was to 
leave ua in 3 little time atterward ; but when he knew 
what I bad said, he was dumb all the real of the way, 
and we heard no more of his fine story of the Chineie 
power and greatness while he stayed. 

After we had passed this mighty nothing, called a 
wall, something like the Picts' v/si], and so famous in 
Northumberland, and built by the Romans, we began 
to find the country thinly inhabited, and the people 
rather confined to live in fortified towns and cities, as 
being subject to the inroads and depredations of the 
Tartars, who rob in great armies, and therefore are 
not to be resisted by the naked inhabitants of an open 
country. 

And here I began to find the necessity of keeping 
together in a caravan as we travelled, for we saw 
several troops of Tartars roving about i but when I 
came to see them distinctly, I wondered more that the 
Chinese Empire could be conquered by such coniemp- 
tible fellows ; for they are a mere horde or crowd of 
wild fellows, keeping no order, and understanding no 
discipline, or manner of fight. 

Their horses are poor, lean, starved creatures, taught 
nothing, and fit for nothing ; and this we said the 
first day we saw them, which was after we entered the 
wider part of the country. Our leader for the day 
gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a-huntiog, as 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 269 

they call it, and what was thia but hunting of sheq? ? 
However, it may be called hunting 100 ; for tht^ crea- 
tures are the wildest and swiftest of foot that ever T 
saw of their kind, only they will not run a great way, 
and you are eure of sport when you begin the 
chase, for they appear generally thirty or forty in a 
flock, and, like true sheep, always keep together when 
they fly. 

In pursuit of this odd sort of game, it was our hap 
to meet with about forty Tartars. Whether they were 
hundng mutton as we were, or whether they looked 
for another kind of prey, I know not ; but as soon as 
they saw ua, one of them blew a kind of horn very 
loud, but with a barbarous sound that I had never 
heard before, and, by the way, never care to hear 
again. We all supposed this was to call their friends 
about them ; and so it was, for in less than half a 
quarter of an hour a troop of forty or fifty more 
appeared at about a mile distance ; but our work was 
over first, as it happeoed. 

One of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened 
to be amongst us ; and as soon as he heard the horn 
he told uB, in short, that we had nothing to do but to 
charge them immediately, without loss of time ; and 
drawing ob up in a line, he asked if we were resolved ? 
We told him we were ready to follow him ; so he 
rode directly up to them. They stood gazing at us 
like a mere crowd, diawn up in no order, nor show- 
ing the face of any order at all ; but as soon aa they 
saw us advance, they let fly their arrows, which, 
however, missed us very happily. It seems they mis- 
took not their aim, but their distance ; for their arrows 
all fell a little short of us, but with so true an aim, 
that had we been about twenty yards nearer, we roust 
have had several men wounded, if not killed. 

Imroediately we halted; and though it was at a 



I 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

great distance, we Bred, and khi them leaden btilleti 
for wooden arrows, following our shot full gaUop, 
to fall in among them sword io hand, for so our 
bold Scot thai led us directed. He was, indeed, 
but a merchant, but he behaved with that vigour and 
bravery on this occasion, and yet with such a cool 
courage too, that I never saw any man in acdon Gtler 
for command. As soon as we came up to diem we 
lired our pistols in their faces, and then drewt bat 
they Bed in the greatest confusion imaginat>le. The only 
stand any of them made was on our right, where tliree 
of them stood, and, by signs, called the rest to c 
back to them, having a kind of scymitar in their ha 
and their bows hanging at their backs. Oar bran 
commander, without asking anybody to follow htni, 
gallops up close to them, and with his fusee knocks 
one of them off his horse, killed the second with his 
pistol, and the third ran away, and thus ended out 
light. But we had this misfortune attending it, 
that all our mutton that we had in chase got away. 
We had not a man killed or hurt ; but as for the 
Tartars there was about five of them killed. Who 
were wounded, we knew not ; but this we knew, 
that the other party was so frighted with the noise 
of our guns, that they made off, and never made a 
attempt upon us. 

We were all this while io the Chinese dominion, 
and therefore the Tartars were not so bold as after- 
wards ; but in about five days we entered a vast g. 
wild desert, which held us three days' and nights' 
march ; and we were obliged to carry our water with 
us in great leather bottles, and to encamp all night, 
just as I have heard they do in the desert of Arabia. 

I asked whose dominion this was in, and they told 
me this was a kind of border, that might be called No 
Man's Land i being a part of the Great Karakathie, 



J ADTENTORES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 271 

■raod Tartary, but that, however, it was all reckoned 
to ^-hina ; but that there was no care lakeo here to pre- 
serve it from the inroads of thieves, and therefore it was 
reckoned the worst desert io the whole world, though 
we were to go over some much larger. 

Id passing this wiidemess, which, I confess, was 
at the first very frightfiil to me, we saw two or three 
times little parties of the Tartars, but they seemed to 
be upon their own aifairs, and to have no design upon 
us ; and bo, like the man who met the devil, if they 
had nothing to say to us, we had nothing to say to 
them ; we let tliem go. 

Once, however, a party of them came so near as to 
stand and gaze at us ; whether it was Co consider what 
they should do, whether attack us or not attack us, that 
we knew not ; but when we were passed at some 
distance by them, we made a rearguard of forty men, 
and stood ready for them, letting the caravan pass half 
a mile, or thereabouts, before us ; but after a while they 
marched off, only we found they saluted us with five 
arrows at their parting, one of which wounded a horse 
so that it disabled him, and we left him the r 
poor creature, in great need of a good farrier, 
suppose they might shoot more arrows, which might 
fall short of US) but we saw no more arrows, or Tartars, 
that time. 

We travelled near a month after this, the ways being 
not so bad as at lirst, though still in the dominions of 
the Emperor of China ; but lay, for the moat part, in 
villages, some of which were fortified because of the 
incursions of the Tartars. When we came to one of 
these towns (it was about two days and a half journey 
before we were to come to the city Naura), I wanted 
to buy a camel, of which there are plenty to be sold all 
Ihe way upon that road, and of horses also, such as 
they are, because so many caravans coming that way 



"^; 



272 ADVSNTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

they are often wanted. The person that I spoke to 
to ^ me a camel would hare gone and fetched it for 
me, but I» like a fool, must be officious, and go myself 
along with him. The place was about two miles out 
of the Tillage, where, it seems, they kept the camels 
and horses feeding under a guard. 

I walked it on foot with my old pilot, being 
▼ery desirous, forsooth, of a little variety. When 
we came to the place it was a low marshy ground, 
walled round with a stone wall, piled up dry, with- 
out mortar or earth among it, like a park, with a 
little guard of Chinese soldiers at the door. Having 
bought a camel, and agreed for the price, I came 
away; and the Chinese man, that' went with me, led 
the camel, when on a sudden came up five Tartars on 
horseback. Two of them seized the fellow, and took 
the camel from him, while the other three stepped up 
to me and my old pilot, seeing us, as it were, unarmed ; 
for I had no weapon about me but my sword, which 
could but ill defend me against three horsemen. The 
first that came up stopped short upon my drawing my 
sword (for they are arrant cowards), but a second 
coming up on my left gave me a blow on the head, 
which I never felt till afterward, and wondered, when 
I came to myself, what was the matter with me, 
and where I was, for he laid me flat on the ground ; 
but my never- failing old pilot, the Portuguese (so 
Providence, unlooked for, directs deliverances from 
dangers which to us are unforeseen^, had a pistol in 
his pocket, which I knew nothing of; nor the Tartars 
neither; if they had, I suppose they would not have 
attacked us ; but cowards are always boldest when 
there is no danger. 

The old man seeing me down, with a bold heart 
stepped up to the fellow that had struck me, and laid 
hold of his arm with one hand, and pulling him down 



CRUSOE. 



73 



■by vasaa force a little towards him with the other, shot 
!^ him into the head, and laid him dend upon the spot. 

He then immediately stepped up to him who had stopped 
I us, as I said, aod before he could come forward again, 
/ for it was all done us it were in a moment, made a blow 
( at him with a scymitar, which he always wore, but 
I missing the man, cut his horse into the side of his 
I head, cot one of his ears olf by the root, and a great 
I slice down the aide of his face. The poor beast, en- 
I raged with the wound, was no more to be governed 
I by his rider, though the fellow sat well enough too ; 
' but away he flew, and carried him quite out of the 
I pilot's reach, and at some distance, rising up upon his 
' hind-legs, threw down the Tartar, and fell upon him. 
In this interval the poor Chinese came in who had 
' lost the camel, but he had no weapon. However, seeing 

the Tartar down, and his horse fallen upon him, away 

he runs to him, and seizing upon an ugly ill-favoured 
', weapon he had fay his side, something like a pole-axe, 

but not a pole-axe neither, he wrenched it from him, 
\ and made shift to knock his Tartarian brains out with 
! it But my old man had the third Tartar to deal with 
' still i and seeing he did not fly as he expected, nor come 

on to fight him as he apprehended, but stand stock 
' still, the old man stood still too, and falls to work with 

his tackle to charge his pistol again. But as soon as the 
I Tartar saw the pistol, whether he supposed it to he the 
■ or another, I know not ; but away he scoured, 

and left my pilot, my champion I called him afterward, 

3 complete victory. 

By this time I was a little awake ; for I thought, 
I when iirst I began to wake, that I had been in a 
(feet steep ; but as I said above, 1 wondered where I 
as, how I came upon the ground, and what was the 
atter ; in a word, a few moments after, as sense 
I retomed, I felt pain, though I did not know where. 



274 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOK 






I clapped my hand to my head, and took 
bloody ; then I felt my head ache, and thea, it 
inomeDt, memory returoed, and everything was present 
to me again. 

I jumped up upon my feet instantly, and got hold of 
my sword, but no enemies in view. I found a Tartar 
lie dead, and his horse standing very quietly by him ; 
and looking farther, I saw my champion and deliverer, 
who had been to see what the Chinese had done, coming 
back with his hunger in his hand. The old man Bceing 
me on my feet came runmng to me, and embraced me 
with a great deal of joy, being afraid before that I hid 
been killed ; and aeeing me bloody, would see how I 
was hurt; but it was not much, only what we call a 
broken head ; neither did I afterwards find any great 
inconvenience from the blow other than the place 
which was hurt, and was well again in two or three 

We made no great gain, however, by this victorfi 
for we lost a camel, and gained a horse; but that 
which was remarkable, when we came back to the 
viUage the man demanded to be paid for the cameL 
I disputed it, and it was brought to a hearing before 
the Chinese judge of the place ; that is to say, in 
English, we went before 3 justice of the peace. Gve 
him his due, he acted with a great deal of prudence 
and impartiality ; and having heard both sides, be 
gravely asked the Chinese man that went with me to 
buy the camel whose servant he was ? " I am no 
servant," says he, " but went with the stranger." — 
"At whose request?" says the justice. — "At tht 
stranger's request," says he. — "Why then," says the 
justice, " you were the stranger's servant for the timt, 
and the camel being delivered to his servant, it wai 
delivered to him, and he must pay for it." 

I confess the thing was clear, that I had not a 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 275 

word 10 say ; but admiring to see such just reasoaing 
upOD the consequence, and so accurate stating the case, 
I paid willingly for the camel, and sent for another ; 
but you may observe, I sent for it ; I did not go and 
fetch it myself any more j I had enough of that, 

The city of Naun is a frontier of the Chinese 
Empire. They call it forti6e{l, and so it is, as fortilica- 
tiODB go there ; for this L will venture to affirm, that 
all the Tartars in Karakathie, which, I believe, are 
some millions, could not batter down the walls with 
their bows and arrows ; but to call it strong, if it were 
attacked with cannon, would be to make those who 
understand it laugh at you. 

We wanted, as I have said, above two days' journey 
of this city when messengers were sent express to 
every part of the road to tell all travellers and cara- 
vans to halt till they had a guard sent for them, for 
that an unusual body of Tartars, making ten thousand 
in all, had appeared in the way, about thirty miles be- 
yond the city. 

This was very bad news to travellers. However, it 
was carefiilly done of the governor, and we were very 
glad to hear we should have a guard. Accordingly, 
two days after, we had two hundred soldiers sent us 
from a garrison of the Chinese on our left, and three 
hundred more from the city of Naun, and with those 
we advanced boldly ; the three hundred soldiers from 
Naun marched in our front, the two hundred in our 
rear, and our men on each side of our camels with our 
baggage, and the whole caravan in the centre. In 
this order, and well prepared for battle, we thought 
ourselves a match for the whole ten thousand Mongol 
Tartars if they had appeared ; but the next day, when 
they did appear, it was quite another thing. 

It was early in the morning when, marching from a 
little well-situated town called Chaogu, we had a river 



: 



276 ADVENTURES OF BOlilNSON CRUSOE. 

> pass, where we were obliged to ferry j and had tlie 
rartars had any inlclligence, then had been the tint 
to have attacked ua, when, the caravan being over, the 
rearguard was behind ; but they did not appear. 

About three hours after, when we were entered npon 
a desert of about RftecD or sixteen miles over, behold, by 
a cloud of dust they raised, we saw an enemy was at 
hand ; and they were at hand indeed, for they caill£ 
on upon the spur. 

The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had 
talked so big the day before, began to stagger, and the 
soldiers frequently looked behind them, which is a 
certain sign in a soldier that he is just ready to nin 
away. My old pilot was of my mind ; and being near 
me, he called out, " Seignior Inglese," says be, 
" chose fellows must be encouraged, or they will ruin 
us all i for if the Tartars come on, they will never 
stand it." — " I am of your mind," said I, " but what 
course must be done?" — "Done!" says he, "let 
fifty of our men advance and flaDk them oa each wing, 
and encourage them, and they will fight like biaw 
fellows in brave company ; but without, they will every 
man turn his back." Immediately I rode up to oor 
leader and told him, who was exacdy of our miod, 
and accordingly fifty of us marched to the right wii^, 
and fifty to the left, and the rest made a line of reserve ; 
and 80 we marched, leaving the last two hundred men to 
make another body by themselves, and to guard the 
camels ; only that, if need were, they should send i 
hundred men to assist the last fifty. 

In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable 
company they were ; how many, we could not tell, but 
ten thousand we thought was the least. A party of 
them came on first and viewed our posture, traversing 
the ground in the front of our line ; and at we found 
them within gunshot, our leader ordered the two wiogl 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOK 277 

to advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on each wing 
with their shot, which was done ; but they went off, 
and I suppose back to give an account of the reception 
they were like to meet with ; and indeed that salute 
clogged their stomach, for they immediately halted, 
stood a while to consider of it, and wheeling off to the 
left they gave over the design, and said no more to us 
for that time ; which was tfery agreeable to our circum- 
stances, which were but very indifferent for a battle 
with such a number. 

Two days after this we came to the city of Naun, 
or Naum. We thanked the governor for his care for 
uB, and collected to the value of a hundred crowns, 
or thereabouts, which we gave to the soldiers sent to 
guard us, and here we rested one day. This is a 
garrison, indeed, and there were nine hundred soldiers 
kept here ; but the reason of it was, that formerly the 
Muscovite frontiers lay nearer to them than they do 
now, the Muscovites having abandoned that part of the 
country (which lies from this city west for about two 
hundred miles) as desolate and unfit for use ; and more 
especially, being so very remote, and so difficult to send 
troops thither for its defence ; for we had yet above 
two thousand miles to Muscovy, properly so called. 

After this we passed several great rivers, and two 
dreadful deserts, one of which we were sixteen days 
passmg over, and which, as I said, was to be called No 
Man's Land; and on the 13th of April we came to 
the frontiers of the Muscovite dominions. I think the 
first city, or town, or foitress, whatever it might be 
called, that belonged to the Czar of Muscovy, was called 
Argunsk, being on the west side of the river Argun. 

I could not but discover an infinite satisfaction that 
I was soon arrived in, as I called it, a Christian country, 
or at least in a country governed by Christians ; for 
though the Muscovites do, in my opinion, but just 



!■}& ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON 

deserve the name of ChnBtiaiis, yet such they preleod 
to be, and are very devout in their way. It would 
certainly occur to any man who cravela in the world as I 
have done, and who had any power of reflection, I say, 
it would occur to him to reflect what a blessing it is to 
be brought into the world where the name of God and 
of a Redeemer is known, worshipped, and adored ; and 
not where the people, given up by Heaven to atrong 
delusiona, worship the devil, and prostrate themselvea la 
stocks and stones, worship monsters, elements, horrible 
shaped animals, and statues, or images of monsterL 
Not a town or city we passed through but had thrir 
pagodas, their idols, and their temples, and ignorant 
people worshipping even the works of their 

Now we came where, at least, a face of the Chris- 
tian worship appeared, where the knee was bowed to 
Jesus i and whether ignorantly ornot, yet the Chrii ' 
religion was owned, and the name of the true God 
called upon and adored, and it made the very rece 
of my soul rejoice to see it. I saluted the brave Scots 
merchant I mentioned above with my lirst acknow- 
ledgment of this ; and taking him by the hand, I said 
to him, " Blessed be God, we are once again come 
among Christians ! " He smiled, and answered, "Do 
not rejoice too soon, countryman ; these Musci 
are but an odd sort of Christians ; and but for the 
of it, yoo may see very little of the substance for 
months farther of our journey," 

" Well," says I, " but stil! 'tis better than paganism, 
and worshipping of devils." — "Why, I'll tell you," 
says he, " except the Russian soldiers in garrisou, 
and a few of the inhabitants of the cities upon the road, 
all the rest of this country, for above a thousand milet 
farther, is inhabited by the worst and most ignorant of 
pagans." And so indeed we found ' 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

We were now launched into the greatest piece of 
solid earth, if I understand anything of the surface of 
the globe, that is to be found in any part of the earth. 
We had at least twelve hundred miles to the aea, east- 
ward ; we had at least two thousand to the bottom of 
the Baltic Sea, westward ; and above three thousand 
miles, if we left that sea, and went on west to the 
British and French channels ; we had fu!l five thousand 
miles to the Indian or Persian Sea, south ; and about 
eight hundred miles to the Frozen sea, north ; nay, if 
some people may be believed, there might be no aea 
north-east till we came round the pole, and consequently 
into the north-weat, and so had a continent of land 
into America, the Lord Itnows where ; though I 
could give some reasons why I believe that to be a 
mistake. 

As we entered into the Muscovite dominions a good 
while before we came to any considerable towns, we 
had nothing to observe there but this ; first, that all 
the rivers that run to the east — as I understood by the 
charts, which some in our caravan had with them — it 
was plain all those rivers ran into the great river 
Amour, or Gammour. This river, by the natural 
course of it, must run into the east sea, or Chinese 
ocean. The story they tell ua, that the mouth of this 
river is choked up with bulrushes of a monstrous 
growth, viz., three feet about, and twenty or thirty 
feet high, I must be allowed to say I believe nothing 
of; but as its navigation is of no use, because there is no 
trade that way, the Tartars, to whom alone it belongs, 
dealing in nothing but cattle, so nobody that ever I 
heard of has been curious enough either to go down to 
the mouth of it in boats, or come up from the mouth of 
it in ships ; but this is certain, that this river running due 
eaat, in the latitude of [fifty degrees], carries a vast 
rivers along with it, and finds an ocean 



8o ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

J empty itself in that latitude ; ao we are sure of 
there. 

Some leagues to the north of this river there 
several considerable rivers, whose streams run as 
north as the Amour runs eaet; and these are 
found to join their waters with the great river T 
taruB, named so from the northeramoEt nations of the 
Mongol Tartars, who, the Chinese say, were the first 
Tartars in the world ; and who, as our geographers 
allege, are the Gog and Magog mentiontrf in sacred 

These rivers running all northward, as well aa all the 
other rivers I am yet to speak of, make it evident that 
the northern ocean bounds the land also on that aiiie, 
BO that it does not seem rational in the least to think 
that the land can extend itself to join with America on 
that side, or that there is not a communication between 
the northern and the eastern ocean ; but of this I shall 
say no more ; it was my observation at that time, 
therefore I take notice of it in this place. We now 
advanced from the river Argun by easy and moderate 
journeys, and were very visibly obliged to the can 
Czar of Muscovy has taken to have cities and ti 
built in aa many places as are possible to place them, 
where his soldiers keep garrison something like the 
stationary soldiers placed by the Rom:ins in the remotest 
countries of their empire, some of which I bad read 
particularly were placed in Britain for the security of 
commerce, and for the lodging travellers. And thus 
it was here ; for wherever we came, though at these 
towns and stations the garrisons and governor were 
Russians and professed Christians, yet the inhabitant) 
of the country were mete pagans, sacrificing to idols, 

d worBbiDnng the sun, moon, and stars, or all the 
t only NO, but were, of all the 
t ever I met with, the most 



ADVENTURES OF KOBINSON CRUSOE. 

barbaroua, except only that thejr did not eat 
fleeh, as our Bavsges of America did. 

Some instaDcea of this we met with in the country 
between Argunak, where we enter the Muscovite 
dominionB, and a city of Tartars aad Russians to- 
gether, called Nertchiosk, in which is a continued 
desert or forest, which cost us twenty days to travel 
over it. In a village near the last of those places, I 
had the curiosity to go and see their way of living, 
which is most brutish and unsuifei-ablc. They had, I 
suppose, a great sacrtlice that day ; for there stood out 
upOD an old stump of a tree an idol made of wood, 
frightfial as the devil, at least as anything we can 
think of to represent the devil can be made. It 
had a head certainly not so much aa resembling any 
creature that the world ever saw ; ears as big as goat's 
horns, and as high ; eyes aa big as a crown-piece ; a 
nose like a crooked ram's horn i and a mouth extended 
fouT'Comered, like that of a lion, with horrible teeth, 
hooked like a parrot's under-bill. It was dressed up 
in the filthiest manner that you could suppose ; its upper 
garment was of sheep-skins, with the wool outward i 
a great Tartar bonnet on the head, with two hotua 
growing through it ; it was about eight feet high, yet 
had no feet or legs, or any other proportion of parts. 

This scarecrow was set up at the outer side of the 
village ; and when I came near to it there was 
sisieen or seventeen creatures, whether men or women 
I could not tell, for they make no distinction by their 
habits, either of body or head j these lay al! flat on the 
ground, round this formidable block of shapeless wood. 
I saw no motion among them any more than if they 
had been all loga of wood, like their idol ; and at lirat 
really thought they had been so ; but when I came a 
litde Dearer, they started up upon their feet, and raised 
a howling cry, as if it had been so many deep-mouthed 



hnuodi, and walked away as if they were displeased ai 
our diBlurliing tliem. A little way off from the idol, 
and at the door of thai tent or hut, made all of 
sheep-Rkina and cow-akina, dried, stood three butchers [ 
I thought they were such } when I came near 
them I found they had long knives in their hands, and 
in the middle of the tent appeared three sheep killed, 
and one young bullock, or steer. These, it » 
were eacriSces to that senseless log of an idol, 
these three men priests belonging to it ; and the aeven- 
teen prostrated wretches were the people who bri 
the offering, and were making their prayers to that 

I confess I was more moved at their stupidity and 
brutish worship of a hobgoblin, than ever I was at 
ihing in my life ; to see God's moat glorious and best 
cieature, to whom He had granted bo many advao- 
tagea, even by creation, above the rest of the works of 
His handa, veated with a reasooable aoul, and that soul 
adorned with faculties and capacities adapted both W 
hoDOur his Maker and be honoured by Him, sunk and 
degenerated to a degree so more than stupid as to pros- 
crate itself 10 a frightiul nothing, a mere imaginary 
object dressed up by themselves, and made terrible to 
themselves by their own contrivance, adorned only with 
clouts and rags ; and that this should be the etfecc of 
mere ignorance, wrought up into hellish devotion by Cht 
devil himself, who, envying (to his Maker) the horaagt 
and adoration of His creatures, had deluded them im( 
auch gross, surfeiting, sordid, and brutish things as nni 
would think should shack Nature itself. 

But what signified all the astonishment and reflec- 
tioD of thoughts ! Thus it was, and I saw It before 

y eyes ; and there was no room to wonder at it, or 
think it impossible. All my admiration turned to rage ■ 

1 I rode up to the image, or monster, call it what you 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 2l 

VnU, and with my sword cut the bonnet that was on 
head ia two in the middk, so that it hung down by one 
of the horoB ; and one of our men that waa with me 
took hold of the aheep-skin that covered it, and pulled 
at it, when, hehold, a most hideous outcry and howling 
ran through ihe village, and two or three hundred people 
came about my ears, so that I was glad to scour for it, 
for we law some had bows and arrows ; but I resolved 
from that moment to visit them again. 

Our caravan rested three nights at the town, which 
was about four miles off, in order to provide some 
horaea which they wanted, several of the horses having 
beeD lamed and jaded with the badness of the way and 
long march over the last desert ; so we had some leisure 
here to put my deaign in execution. I communicated 
my project to the Scots merchant of Moscow, of whose 
courage I had had sufficient testimony, as above. I told 
him what I had seen, and with what indignation I had 
since thought that human nature could be so degenerate. 
I told htm I was resolved, if I could but get four or five 
men well armed to go with me, I was resolved to go and 
destroy that vile, abomitiable idol, and let them see that 
it had no power to help itself, and consequently could 
not be an object of worship, or to be prayed to, much 
leaa help them that offered sacrifices to it. 

He laughed at me. Says he, " Your zeal may be 
good, but what do you propose to yourself by it i " 
— " Propose ! " said I ( "to vindicate the honour of 
God, which ia insulted by this devil worship," — " But 
how will it vindicate the honour of God," said he, 
"while the people will not be able to know what 
you mean by it, unless you could speak to them, and 
tell them so .' and then they will fight you, and beat 
you too, I'll assure you, for they are desperate 
fellows, a ' ■ ■ ■■ ■ ■ - ,-.--■. 



MIj" 



"Can <* 



especially i: 
e not," said I, "do it in the night. 



F 



184 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

and then leave them the reasons and causes in writing, 
in their own language?" — "Writing! " said he; 
" why, there is not a man in five nations of them that 
know anything of a letter, or how to read a word in 
any language, or in their own," — ''Wretched igno- 
rance! " said I to hira J "however, I have a great 
mind to do it; perhaps Natiu-e may draw inferences 
from it to them, to let them see how brutish they are 
to worship such horrid things." — " Look you, sir," 
said he, " if your zeal prompts you to it so warmly, 
you must do it ; but in the next place I would hare 
you consider these wild nations of people are subjected 
by force to the Czar of Muscovy's dominions } and if 
you do this 'tis ten to one but they will come by 
thousands to the governor of Nertchinsk, and com- 
plain, and demand satisfaction j and if he cannot give 
them satisfaction, 'tie ten to one but they revolt, and 
ew war with all the Tartars ia the 



country. 

TUi, I confess, put new thoughts into my head for 
a while ; but I harped upon the same string still, and 
all that day I was uneasy to put my project in execu- 
tion. Towards the evening the Scots merchant met 
me by accident in our walk about the town, and desired 
to speak with me, " I believe," said he, " I have put 
you otF of your good design ; I have been a little con- 
cerned about it since, for I abhor the idol and idolatry 
as much as you can do." — "Truly," says I, "you 
have put it off a little as to the execution of it, but 
you Iwve not put it all out of my thoughts, and I 
believe I shall do it still before I quit this place, 
though I were to be delivered up to them for satisfac- 
tion." — " No, no," says he 1 " God forbid they should 
deliver you up to such a crew of monsters ! they shall 
not do that neither ; that would be murdering yoo 
indeed." — "Why," says I, "how would they use 



ADVENTURES OF KOBINSON CRUSOE. 

me ? " — " Use you ! " says he j " I'il tell you how 
they served a poor Russian who affronted them in 
their worship just as you did, and who they cook 
prisoner after they had lamed him with an arrow, that 
he could not run away. They took him and stripped 
him stark naked, and set him up on the top of the idol 
monster, and stood all round him, and shot as many 
arrows into him as would stick over his whole body ; 
and then they burnt him, and all the arrows stick- 
ing in him, as a sacrifice to the idol." — " And was 
this the same idol?" — "Yes," says he, "the very 
same," — "Well," says I, "I'!l lelj you a story." 
So I related the story of our men at Madagascar, and 
how they burnt and sacked the village there, and killed 
man, woman, and child for their murdering one of our 
men, just as it is related before ; and when I had done, 
I added that I thought we ought to do so to this 
village. 

He listened very attentively to the story ; but when 
I talked of doing so to that village, says he, "You 
mistake very much ; it was not this village, it was 
almost a hundred miles from this place ; but it was the 
Bame idol, for they carry him about in procession all 
over the country." — "Well then," says I, "then that 
idol ought to be punished for it ; and it shall," says I, 
"if I live this night out." 

In H word, finding me resolute, he liked the design, 
and told me I should not go alone, but he would go 
with me, and bring a stout fellow, one of his country- 
men, to go also with us } "and one," says he, "as 
fomous for liis zeal as you can desire any one to be 
agdnst such devilish tilings as these." In a word, 
he brought me his comrade, a Scotsman, whom he 
called Captain Richardson ; and I gave him a fi " 
account of what I had seen, and, in a word, 
what I intended ; and he told me readily he would go , 



* 



lS6 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOBy 

with me if it cost him his life ; bo we agreed to gi, 
only us three. 1 had, indeed, proposed it to my 
prtDer, but be declined it. He said he was ready to 
assist me to the utraasc, and upon all occasions, for my 
defence j but that this was an adventure quite onl oS 
his way ; so, I say, we resolved upon our work, only 
us three, and my man-servant, and to put it io execu- 
tion that night about midnight, with all the secrecy 
imaginable. 

However, upon second thoughts we were willing to 
delay it rill the next night, because the caravan bong 
to set forward :n the morning, we supposed the gover- 
nor could not pretend to give them any satis&ction 
upon us when we were out of his power. The Scots 
merchant, as steady in hia resolution for the enterprise 
as bold in executing, brought mc a Tartar's robe or 
gown of the sheep-skins, and a bonnet, with a bow and 
arrows, and had provided the same for himself and hii 
countryman, that the people, if they saw us, should not 
be able to determine who we were. 

All the first night we spent in mixing up aome 
combustible matter with aqua-vitx, gunpowder, and 
such other materiale as we could get ; and hayiag a 
goad quantity of tar in a little pot, about an hour ana 
night we set out upon our expedition. 

We came to the place about eleven o'clock at nigb^ 
and found that the people had not the least jealousy (^ 
danger attending their idol ; the night was cloody, 
yet the moon gave us light enough to see that the idol 
stood just in the same posture and place that it did 
before. The people seemed to be all at their resti 
only, that in the great hut, or tent, as we called it, 
where we saw the three priests, whom we mistook for 
butchers, we saw a light, and going up close to the 
door we heard people talking, aa if there were fire or 
six of them. We concluded, thcreibre, that if we Kt 



ADVENTURES OF 



CRUSOE. 187 



^tfie wild-fire to the idol, these mea would come out im- 
mediately and run up to the place to rescue it from the 

I destructioD that we intended for it ; and what to do 
with them we knew not. Once we thought of carrying 
it away, and setting lire to it at a distance ; but when 
wc came to handle it, we found it too bulky for our 
carriage, so we were at a loss again. The second 
Scoiaman was for setting fire to the tent or hut, and 
knocking the creatures that were there on the head 
when ihey came out ; but I could not join with that. 
I was against kilting them, if it was possible to be 
avoided. " Well then," said the Scots merchant, " I'll 
tell you what we will do ; we will try to take them 
prisoners, tie their hands behind them, and make them 
stand sdll and see their idol destroyed." 

As it happened, we had twine or packthread enough 
about UE, which was used to tie our fireworks together 
with ; BO we resolved to attack the peoplt 



4 



s little 



Duld. The 



e did« 



knocked at the door, which isGued just as we desired it j 
for one of their idol priests came to the door. We im- 
mediately seized upon him, stopped his mouth, and tied 
his hands behind him, and led him to the idol, where 
we gagged him that he might not make a noise, tied 
his feet also together, and left him on the ground. 

Two of us then waited ai the door, expecting that 
another would come out to see what the matter was ; 
but we waited so long till the third miin came back to 
ua, and then nobody coming out, we knocked again 
gently, and immediately out came two more, and we 
served them just in the same manner, but were obliged 
to go all widi them, and lay them down by the idol 
some distance from one another ; when going back we 
found two more were come out to the door, aoc 
stood between ihem within the door. We sei: 
to, and immediately tied them, when the tfa 



288 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

Stepping backt and crying out, my Scots merchant 
went in after him, and taking out a composition we 
had made, that would only smoke and stink, he set 
fire to it, and threw it in among them. By that time 
the other Scotsman and my man taking charge of the 
two men who were already bound, and tied together 
also by the arm, led them away to the idol, and left 
them there, to see if their idol would relieye them, 
making haste back to us. 

When the fuze we had thrown in had filled the 
hut with so much smoke that they were almost suffo- 
cated, we then threw in a small leather bag of another 
kind, which flamed like a candle, and following it in 
we found there was but four people left, who, it seems, 
were two men and two women, and, as we supposed, 
had been about some of their diabolic sacrifices. They 
appeared, in short, frighted to death, at least so as to 
sit trembling and stupid, and not able to speak neither 
for the smoke. 

In a word, we took them, bound them as we had the 
others, and all without any noise. I should have said 
we brought them out of the house, or hut, first ; for, 
indeed, we were not able to bear the smoke any more 
than they were. When we had done this, we carried 
them all together to the idol. When we came there, we 
fell to work with him ; and first we daubed him all 
oyer, and his robes also, with tar and such other stuff 
as we had, which was tallow mixed with brimstone ; 
then we stopped his eyes, ears, and mouth full of gun- 
powder; and then we wrapped up a great piece of 
wild-fire in his bonnet ; and then sticking all the com- 
bustibles we had brought with us upon him, we looked 
about to see if we could find anything else to help to 
burn him ; when my man remembered that by the tent 
or hut, where the men were, there lay a heap of dry 
forage, whether straw or rushes I do not remember ; 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

ftway he and one of the Scotamea ran, snd fetched 
their arms full of that. When we had done ihis, we 
took all our priaonera, and brought them, having untied 
their feet and ungagged their moutha, and made them 
stand up, and set them just before their monstroua idol, 
and there set fire to the whole. 

We stayed by it a quarter of an hour or thereabouts, 
till the powder in the eyes, and mouth, and ears of the 
idol blew up, and we could perceive had split and 
deformed the shape, and in a word, till we saw tt 
bum into a mere block or log of wood ; and then 
setting the dry forage to it, we found it would be quite 
consumed, when we began to think of going away ; but 
the Scotsman aaid, " No, we must not go, for these 
poor deluded wretches will all throw themselves into 
the fire, and burn themselves with the idol." So we 
resolved to stay till the forage whs burnt down too, and 
then we came away and left them. 

In the morning we appeared among our fellow- 
travellers, exceeding busy in getting ready for our 
journey ; nor could any man suggest [hat we had been 
anywhere but in our beda, as travellers might be 
supposed to be, to fit themselves for the fatigue of 
that day's journey. 

But it did not end so. The next day came a great 
multitude of the country people, not only of this village, 
but of a hundred more, for aught I know, to the town 
gates, and in a most outrageous manner demanded satis- 
&Ction of the Rusaan governor for the inaulting their 
priests, and burning their great Cham-Chi-Thaungu, 
such a hard name they gave the monstrous creature 
they worshipped. The people of Nertchinsk weie at 
first in 3 great consternation ; for they said the Tartars 
were no less than thirty thousand, and that in a few 
days more would be one hundred thousand strong. 

The Russian governor sent out messengers to appease 



290 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

them, and gave them all the good words imaginable. 
He assured them he knew nothing of it, and that there 
had not a soul of his garrison been abroad ; that it could 
not be from anybody there ; and if they would let him 
know who it was, they should be exemplarily punished. 
They returned haughtily that all the country reverenced 
the great Cham-Chi-Thaungu, who dwelt in the sun, 
and no mortal would haye dared to offer violence to his 
image but some Christian miscreant, so they called 
them, it seems; and they therefore denounced war 
against him and all the Russians, who, they said, were 
miscreants and Christians. 

The governor, still patient, and unwilling to make a 
breach, or to have any cause of war alleged to be given 
by him, the Czar having strictly charged them to treat 
the conquered country with gentleness and civility, 
gave them still all the good words he could. At last 
he told them there was a caravan gone towards Russia 
that morning, and perhaps it was some of them who 
had done them this injury ; and that if they would be 
satisfied with that, he would send after them, to inquire 
into it. This seemed to appease them a little; and 
accordingly the governor sent after us, and gave us a 
particular account how the thing was, intimating withal 
that if any in our caravan had done it they should make 
their escape ; but that whether they had done it or no, 
we should make all the haste forward that was possible, 
and that in the meantime he would keep them in play 
as long as he could. 

This was very friendly in the governor. However, 
when it came to the caravan there was nobody knew 
anything of the matter ; and as for us that were guilty, 
we were the least of all suspected ; none so much as 
asked us the question. However, the captain of the 
caravan for the time took the hint that the governor 
gave "A- "* i or travelled two days and two 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 29 1 

nights without any considerable stop, and then we lay 
at a village called Plotbus ; nor did we make any long 
stop here, but hastened on towards Jerawena, another 
of the Czar of Muscovy's colonies, and where we ex- 
pected we should be safe. But it is to be observed 
that here we began, for two or three days' march, to 
enter upon the vast nameless desert, of which I shall 
say more in its place, and which if we had now been 
upon it, it is more than probable we had been all 
destroyed. It was the second day's march from 
Plotbus that by the clouds of dust behind us, at a 
great distance, some of our people began to be sensible 
we were pursued. We had entered the desert, and 
had passed by a great lake called Schaks-Oser, when 
we perceived a very great body of horse appear on the 
other side of the lake to the north, we travelling west. 
We observed they went away west, as we did, but 
had supposed we would have taken that side of the 
lake, whereas we very happily took the south side; 
and in two days more we saw them not, for they, 
believing we were still before them, pushed on till they 
came to the river Uda. This is a very great river 
when it passes farther north, but where we came to it 
we found it narrow and fordable. 

The third day they either found their mistake, or 
had inteUigence of us, and came pouring in upon us 
towards the dusk of the evening. We had, to our 
great satis&ction, just pitched upon a place for our 
camp which was very convenient for the night; for 
as we were upon a desert, though but at the beginning 
of it, that was above five hundred miles over, we had 
no towns to lodge at, and, indeed, expected none but 
the city Jerawena, which we had yet two days' march 
to ; the desert, however, had some few woods in it 
on this side, and little rivers which ran all into the great 
river Uda. It was in a narrow strait, between two 



393 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

little but very thick woods, that we pitched our little 
camp for that night, expecting to be attacked in the night 

Nobody knew but ourselves what we were pursued 
for ; but as it was usual for the Mongol Tartars to go 
about in troops in that desert, so the caravans alwap 
fortify themselves every night against them as against 
armies of robbers $ and it was, therefore, no new thing 
to be pursued. But we had this night, of all th« 
nights of our travels, a most advantageous camp ; for 
we lay between two woods, with a little rivulet running 
just before our front, so that we could not be sur- 
rounded or attacked any way but in our front or 
rear. We took care also to make our front as strong 
as we could by placing our packs, with our camels 
and horses, all in a line on the inside of the river, and 
felling some trees in our rear. 

In this posture we encamped for the night ; but the 
enemy was upon us before we had finished our situation. 
They did not come on us like thieves, as we expected, 
but sent three messengers to us, to demand the men to 
be delivered to them that had abused their priests, and 
burnt their god Cham-Chi-Thaungu with fire, that 
they might burn them with fire ; and upon this, they 
said they would go away, and do us no farther harm ; 
otherwise, they would burn us all with fire. Our men 
looked very blank at this message, and began to stare 
at one another to see who looked with most guilt in 
their faces; but " nobody '* was the word, nobody did it 
The leader of the caravan sent word he was well assured 
it was not done by any of our camp ; that we were 
peaceable merchants travelling on our business ; that we 
had done no harm to them, or to any one else; and 
that, therefore, they must look farther for their enemies 
who had injured them, for we were not the people ; so 
desired them not to disturb us, for if they did, we 
should defend ourselves. 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 293 

They were far from being satisfied with this for an 
answer, but a great crowd of them came down in the 
morning, by break of day, to our camp ; but seeing us 
in such an unaccountable situation, they durst come no 
ferther than the brook in our front, where they stood 
and showed us such a number, that indeed terrified us 
very much ; for those that spoke least of them, spoke 
of ten thousand. Here they stood and looked at us 
a while, and then setting up a great howl, they let fly a 
crowd of arrows among us ; but we were well enough 
fortified for that, for we sheltered under our baggage ; 
and I do not remember that one man of us was hurt. 

Some time after this we saw them move a little to 
our right, and expected them on the rear, when a 
cunning fellow, a Cossack, as they call them, of Jera- 
wena, in the pay of the Muscovites, calling to the leader 
of the carayan, said to him, *' I'll go send all these 
people away to Shilka ; " this was a city four or 
laye days' journey at least to the south, and rather behind 
us. So he takes his bow and arrows, and getting on 
horseback, he rides away from our rear directly, as it 
were back to Nertchinsk ; after this he takes a great 
circuit about, and comes to the army of the Tartars, as 
if he had been sent express to tell them a long story, 
that the people who had burnt the Cham-Chi-Thaungu 
were gone to Shilka with a caravan of miscreants, as 
he called them, that is to say. Christians, and that they 
had resolved to burn the god Schal-Isar, belonging to 
the Tonguses. 

As this fellow was himself a mere Tartar, and per- 
fectly spoke their language, he counterfeited so well, 
that they all took it from him, and away they drove in 
a most violent hurry to Shilka, which it seems was 
five days' journey to the north ; and in less than three 
hours rfiey were entirely out of our sight, and we never 
heard any more of them, and we never knew whether 



394 /a)V£NTUR£S OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

they went to that other place called Shilka or no. So 
we passed safely on to the city of Jerawena, where there 
was a garrison of Muscovites ; and there we rested five 
days, the caravan being exceedingly fatigued with the last 
day's hard march, and with want of rest in the night. 

From this city we had a frightful desert, which held 
us three and twenty days' march. We furnished our- 
selves with some tents here, for the better acconmiodating 
ourselves in the night ; and the leader of the caravan 
procured sixteen carriages, or waggons, of the country 
for carrying our water and provisions; and these 
carriages were our defence every night round our little 
camp; so that had the Tartars appeared, unless they had 
been very numerous indeed, they would not have been 
able to hurt us. 

We may well be supposed to want rest again 
after this long journey; for in this desert w^ saw 
abundance of the sable-hunters, as they called them. 
These are all Tartars of the Mongol Tartary, of which 
this country is a part, and they frequently attack small 
caravans ; but we saw no numbers of them together. 
I was curious to see the sable skins they catched, but 
could never speak with any of them, for they durst 
not come near us, neither durst we straggle from our 
company to go near them. 

After we had passed this desert, we came into a 
country pretty well inhabited ; that is to say, we found 
towns and castles settled by the Czar of Muscovy with 
garrisons of stationary soldiers, to protect the caravans, 
and defend the country against the Tartars, who would 
otherwise make it very dangerous travelling ; and his 
czarish majesty has given such strict orders for the well 
guarding the caravans and merchants, that if there are 
any Tartars heard of in the country, detachments of the 
garrisons are always sent to see the travellers safe from 
station to station. And thus the governor of Udinsk, 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 295 

whom I had opportunity to make a visit to by means 
of the Scots merchant, who was acquainted with him, 
offered us a guard of fifty men, if we thought there 
was any danger, to the next station. 

I thought long before this, that as we came nearer to 
Europe we should find the country better peopled, and 
the people more civilised ; but I found myself mistaken 
in both, for we had yet the nation of the Tonguses to 
pass through, where we saw the same tokens of pagan- 
ism and barbarity, or worse, than before ; only as they 
were conquered by the Muscovites, and entirely re- 
duced, they were not so dangerous ; but for rudeness of 
manners, idolatry, and multitheism, no people in the 
world ever went beyond them. They are clothed all 
in skins of beasts, and their houses are built of the same. 
You know not a man from a woman, neither by the 
ruggedness of their countenances or their clothes ; and in 
the winter, when the ground is covered with snow, they 
live underground, in houses like vaults, which have 
cavities going from one to another. 

If the Tartars had their Cham-Chi-Thaungu for a 
whole village or country, these had idols in every hut 
and in every cave ; besides, they worship the stars, the 
sun, the water, the snow ; and in a word, everything 
that they do not understand — ^and they understand but 
very little — so that almost every element, every un- 
common thing, sets them a-sacrificing. 

But I am no more to describe people than countries, 
any farther than my own story comes to be concerned 
in them. I met with nothing peculiar to myself in 
this country, which I reckon was, from the desert 
which I spoke of last, at least four hundred miles, half 
of it being another desert, which took us up twelve 
days' severe travelling, without house, or tree, or bush, 
but were obliged again to carry our own provisions, 
as well water as bread. After we were out of this 



396 ADVEHTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

desert, and had travelled two days, we came to 
Yeniseisk, a Muscovite city or station on the great 
river YeniseL This river, they told us, p^ted 
Europe from Asia, though our map-makers, as I am 
told, do not agree to it ; however, it is certainly the 
eastern boundary of the ancient Siberia, which now 
makes up a province only of the vast Muscovite Empire, 
but is itself equal in bigness to the whole empire of 
Germany. 

And yet here I observed ignorance and paganism still 
prevailed, except in the Muscovite garrisons. All the 
country between the river Obi and the river Yenisei 
is as entirely pagan, and the people as barbarous, as 
the remotest of the Tartars ; nay, as any nation, for aught 
I know, in Asia or America. I also found, which I 
observed to the Muscovite governors, whom I had 
opportunity to converse with, that the poor pagans are not 
much the wiser, or the nearer Christianity, for being 
under the Muscovite government, which they acknow- 
ledged was true enough, but as they said, was none of 
their business ; that if the Czar expected to convert his 
Siberian, or Tonguse, or Tartar subjects, it should be 
done by sending clergymen among them, not soldiers ; 
and they added, with more sincerity than I expected, 
that they found it was not so much the concern of 
their monarch to make the people Christians, as it was 
to make them subjects. 

From this river to the great river Obi we crossed 
a wild and uncultivated country ; I cannot say 'tis a 
barren soil; 'tis only barren of people, and good 
management, otherwise it is in itself a most pleasant, 
fruitful, and agreeable country. What inhabitants 
we found in it are all pagans, except such as are 
sent among them from Russia ; for this is the country, 
I mean on both sides the river Obi, whither the 
Muscovite criminals, that are not put to death, are 



ADVENTUkES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 297 

banished, and from whence it is next to impossible 
they should ever come away. 

I have nothing material to say of my particular 
a£^8 till I came to Tobolsk, the capital city of 
Siberia, where I continued some time on the fbUowing 
occasion. 

We had been now almost seven months on our 
journey, and winter began to come on apace, where- 
upon my partner and I called a councU about our 
particular afifairs, in which we found it proper, con- 
sidering that we were bound for England, and not for 
Moscow, to consider how to dispose of ourselves. 
They told us of sledges and reindeer to carry us over 
the snow in the winter-time ; and, indeed, they have 
such things, that it would be incredible to relate the 
particulars of, by which means the Russians travel 
more in the winter than they can in summer, because 
in these sledges they are able to run all night and 
day ; the snow being frozen, is one universal covering 
to Nature, by which the hills, the vales, the rivers, the 
lakes all are smooth, and hard as a stone, and 
they run upon the sur&ce without any regard to what 
is underneath. 

But I had no occanon to push at a winter journey 
of this kind. I was bound to England, not to Moscow, 
and my route lay two ways ; either I must go on, as the 
caravan went, till I came to Jaroslav, and then go off 
west for Narva and the Gulf of Finland, and so either 
by sea or land to Dantzic, where I might possibly sell 
my China cargo to good advantage, or I must leave 
the caravan at a little town on the Dwina, from whence 
I had but six days by water to Archangel, and from 
thence might be sure of shipping either to England, 
Holland, or Hamburg. 

Now to go any of these journeys in the winter would 
have been preposterous ; for as to Dantzic, the Baltic 



2gS ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

would be frozen up, and I could not get passage ; and 
to go by land in those countries, was €suc less safe than 
among the Mongol Tartars ; likewise to go to Arch- 
angel in October^ all the ships would be gone fi-om 
thence, and even the merchants, who dwell there in 
sunmier, retire south to Moscow in the winter when 
the ships are gone, so that I should have nothing but 
extremity of cold to encounter, with a scarcity of pro- 
visions, and must lie there in an empty town all the 
winter ; so that, upon the whole, I thought it a much 
better way to let the caravan go, and to make pro- 
vision to winter where I was, viz., at Tobolsk, in 
Siberia, in the latitude of [fifty-eight] degrees, where I 
was sure of three things to wear out a cold winter with, 
viz., plenty of provision, such as the country afforded, 
a warm house, with fuel enough, and excellent com- 
pany ; of all which I shall give a full account in its 
place. 

I was now in a quite different climate from my 
beloved island, where I never felt cold, except when I 
had my ague ; on the contrary, I had much to do to 
bear my clothes on my back, and never made any fire 
but wiUiout doors, and for my necessity, in dressing my 
food, &c. Now I made me three good vests, with large 
robes or gowns over them, to hang down to the feet, 
and button close to the wrists, and all these lined with 
fiirs, to make them sufficiently warm. 

As to a warm house, I must confess I greatly 
disliked our way in England of making fires in every 
room in the house, in open chimneys, which, when the 
fire was out, always kept the air in the room cold as 
the climate ; but taking an apartment in a good house 
in the town, I ordered a chimney to be built like a 
furnace, in the centre of six several rooms, like a 
stove; the funnel to carry the smoke went up one 
way, the door to come at the fire went in another, and 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 299 

all the rooms were kept equally warniy but no fire seen, 
just as they heat the bagnios in England. 

By this means we had always the same climate in 
all the rooms, and an equal heat was preserved ; and 
how cold soever it was without, it was always warm 
within ; and yet we saw no fire, nor was incommoded 
with any smoke. 

The most wonderful thing of all was, that it should 
be possible to meet with good company here, in a 
country so barbarous as that of the most northerly parts 
of Europe, near the Frozen ocean, and within but a 
very few degrees of Nova Zembla. 

But this being the country where the state criminals 
of Muscovy, as I observed before, are all banished, 
this city was full of noblemen, princes, gentlemen, 
colonels, and, in short, all degrees of the nobility, 
gentry, soldiery, and courtiers of Muscovy. Here 
was the famous Prince Galliozen, the old General 
Robostiski, and several other persons of note, and 
some ladies. 

By means of my Scots merchant, whom, neverthe- 
less, I parted with here, I made an acquaintance here 
with several of these gentlemen, and some of them of 
the first rank ; and from these in the long winter 
nights in which I stayed here I received several very 
agreeable visits. It was talking one night with Prince 

one of the banished ministers of state 

belonging to the Czar of Muscovy, that my talk of 
my particular case began. He had been telling me 
abundance of fine things of the greatness, the mag- 
nificence, the dominions, and the absolute power of 
the Emperor of the Russians. I interrupted him, and 
told him I was a greater and more powerful prince 
than ever the Czar of Muscovy was, though my 
dominions were not so large, or my people so many. 
The Russian grandee looked a little surprised, and 



360 At>V£KtUR£S Of k6BINS6N CRtJSOE. 

fixing his eyes steadily upon me, began to wonder 
what I meant. 

I told him his wonder would cease when I had ex- 
plained myself. First, I told him I had the absolute 
disposal of the lives and fortunes of all my subjects; 
that notwithstanding my absolute power, I had not one 
person disaffected to my government or to my person in 
all my dominions. He shook his head at that, and 
said, there indeed I outdid the Czar of Muscovy. I 
told him that all the lands in my kingdom were my 
own, and all my subjects were not only my tenants, 
but tenants at will ; that they would all fight for me to 
the last drop ; and that never tyrant, for such I acknow- 
ledged myself to be, was ever so universally beloved, 
and yet so horribly feared, by his subjects. 

After amusing them with these riddles in government 
for a while, I opened the case, and told them the story 
at large of my living in the island, and how I managed 
both myself and the people there that were under me, 
just as I have since minuted it down. They were ex- 
ceedingly taken with the story, and especially the 
prince, who told me with a sigh that the true greatness 
of life was to be master of ourselves ; that he would 
not have exchanged such a state of life as mine to 
have been Czar of Muscovy ; and that he found more 
felicity in the retirement he seemed to be banished to 
there, than ever he found in the highest authority he 
enjoyed in the court of his master the Czar ; that the 
height of human wisdom was to bring our tempers 
down to our circumstances, and to make a calm within, 
under the weight of the greatest storm without. When 
he came first hither, he said, he used to tear the hair 
from his head, and the clothes from his back, as others 
had done before him ; but a little time and considera- 
tion look into himself, as well as 

without; that he found the 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 30I 

mind of man, if it was but once brought to reflect upon 
the state of universal life, and how little this world was 
concerned in its true felicity, was perfectly capable of 
making a felicity for itself, fully satisfying to itself, and 
suitable to its own best ends and desires, with but very 
little assistance from the world ; that air to breathe in, 
food to sustain life, clothes for warmth, and liberty for 
exercise in order to health, completed, in his opinion, 
all that the world could do for us ; and though the 
greatness, the authority, the riches, and the pleasures 
which some enjoyed in the world, and which he had 
enjoyed his share of, had much in them that was 
agreeable to us, yet he observed that all those things 
chiefly gratified the coarsest of our affections, such as 
our ambition, our particular pride, our avarice, our 
vanity, and our sensuality ; all which were, indeed, the 
mere product of the worst part of man, were in them- 
selves crimes, and had in them the seeds of all manner 
of crimes ; but neither were related to, or concerned 
with, any of those virtues that constituted us wise men, 
or of those graces which distinguished us as Christians ; 
that being now deprived of all the fancied felicity 
which he enjoyed in the full exercise of all those vices, 
he said he was at leisure to look upon the dark side of 
them, where he found all manner of deformity ; and 
was now convinced that virtue only makes a man 
truly wise, rich, and great, and preserves him in the 
way to a superior happiness in a future state ; and in 
this, he said, they were more happy in their banishment 
than all their enemies were, who had the full possession 
of all the wealth and power that they, the banished, 
had left behind them. 

*< Nor, sir," says he, " do I bring my mind to this 
politically by the necessity of my circumstances, which 
some call miserable ; but if I know anything of my- 
self, I would not now go back, though the Czar, my 



509 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

master, should call me, and reinstate me in all my 
former grandeur ; I say, I would no more go back to 
it, than I believe my soul, when it shall be delivered 
from this prison of the body, and has had a taste of 
the glorious state beyond life, would come back to the 
gaol of flesh and blood it is now inclosed in, and leave 
heaven to deal in the dirt and crime of human Si&dis," 

He spoke this with so much warmth in his temper, 
so much earnestness and motion of his spirits, which 
were apparent in his countenance, that it was evident it 
was the true sense of his soul ; there was no room to 
doubt his sincerity. 

I told him I once thought myself a kind of a 
monarch in my old station, of which I had given him 
an account, but that I thought he was not a monarch 
only, but a great conqueror ; for that he that has got 
a victory over his own exorbitant desires, and has the 
absolute dominion over himself, whose reason entirely 
governs his will, is certainly greater than he that con- 
quers a city. ** But, my lord," said I, *^ shall I take 
the liberty to ask you a question ? " — ** With all my 
heart," says he. — "If the door of your liberty was 
opened," said I, " would you not take hold of it to 
deliver yourself from this exile ? " 

" Hold," said he, " your question is subtle, and re- 
quires some serious just distinctions to give it a sincere 
answer, and I'll give it you from the bottom of my 
heart. Nothing that I know of in this world would 
move me to deliver myself from this state of banish- 
ment, except these two ; first, the enjoyment of my 
relations ; and, secondly, a little warmer climate. But 
I protest to you, that to go back to the pomp of the 
court, the glory, the power, the hurry of a minister of 
state, the wealth, the gaiety, and the pleasures, that is 
to say, follies of a courtier ; if my master should send 
me word this moment that he restores me to all he 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 303 

banished me from, I protest, if I know myself at all, 
I would not leave this wilderness, these deserts, and 
these frozen lakes, for the palace at Moscow." 

" But, my lord," said I, " perhaps you not only are 
banished from the pleasure of the court, and from 
the power, and authority, and wealth, you eujoyed 
before, but you may be absent too from some of the 
conveniences of life ; your estate, perhaps, confiscated, 
and your effects plundered ; and the supplies left you 
here may not be suitable to the ordinary demands of 
life." 

"Ay," says he, " that is, as you suppose me to be 
A lord, or a prince, &c. So indeed I am ; but you 
are now to consider me only as a man, a human crea- 
ture, not at ail distinguished from another; and so I 
can suffer no want, unless I should be risited with 
aicknesB and distempers. However, to put the ques- 
tion out of dispute, you see our manner ; we are in 
this place five persons of rank ; we live perfectly 
retired, as suited to a state of banishment ; we have 
something rescued from the shipwreck of our fortunes, 
which keeps us from the mere necessity of hunting for 
our food ; but the poor soldiers who are here, widiout 
that help, live in as much plenty as we, who go into 
the woods and catch sables and foxes ; the labour of 
3 month will maintain them a year ; and as the way 
of living is not expensive, so it is not hard to get suffi- 
cient to ourselves ; so that objection is oat of doors." 

I have not room to give a fiill account of the most 
agreeable conversation I had with this truly great man, 
in all which he showed that his mind was so inspiretl 
with a superior knowledge of things, so supported by 
religion as well as by a vast share of wisdom, that his 
contempt of the world was really as much as he had 
expressed, and that he was always the same to the last, 
U will appear in the story I am going to telL 



1 



304 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

I had been here eight months, and a dark, dreadful 
winter I thought it to be, the cold so intense, that I 
could not so much as look about without being wrapped 
in furs, and a mask of fur before my face, or rather a 
hood, with only a hole for breath, and two for sight 
The little daylight we had was, as we reckoned, for 
three months, not above five hours a day, and six at 
most; only that the snow lying on the ground con- 
tinually, and the weather clear, it was never quite darL 
Our horses were kept, or rather starved, underground ; 
and as for our servants, for we hired three servants here 
to look after our horses and selves, we had every now 
and then their fingers and toes to thaw, and take care 
of, lest they should mortify and hH off. 

It is true within doors we were warm, the houses 
being close, the walls thick, the lights small, and the 
glass all double. Our food was chiefly the flesh of 
deer, dried and cured in the season ; good bread enough, 
but baked as biscuits ; dried fish of several sorts, and 
some flesh of mutton, and of the buf&loes, which is pretty 
good beef. All the stores of provision for the winter 
are laid up in the sunmier, and well cured. Our drink 
was water mixed with aqua-vitss instead of brandy ; and 
for a treat, mead instead of wine, which, however, 
they have excellent good. The hunters, who venture 
abroad all weathers, frequently brought us in fresh veni- 
son, very fat and good ; and sometimes bear's flesh, but 
we did not much care for the last. We had a good 
stock of tea, with which we treated our friends, as 
above ; and, in a word, we lived very cheerfully and 
well all things considered. 

It was now March and the days grown considerably 
longer, and the weather at least tolerable, so the other 
travellers began to prepare sleds to carry them over 
the snow, and to get things ready to be going ; but my 
measures being fixed, as I have said, for Archangel, 



ADVENTURES OP ROBINSON CRtJSOfi. 365 

and not to Muscovy or the Baltic, I made no motion, 
knowing very well that the ships from the south do 
not set out for that part of the world till May or June, 
and that if I was there by the beginning of August, it 
would be as soon as any ships would be ready to go 
away, and therefore, I say, I made no haste to be 
gone, as others did ; in a word, I saw a great many 
people — ^nay, all the travellers — ^go away before me. 
It seems every year they go from hence to Moscow 
for trade, viz., to carry Rirs and buy necessaries with 
them, which they bring back to furnish their shops ; 
also others went of the same errand to Archangel, but 
then they also, being to come back again above eight 
hundred miles, went all out before me. 

. In short, about the latter end of May I began to 
make all ready to pack up ; and as I was doing this, 
it occurred to me that seeing all these people were 
banished by the Czar of Muscovy to Siberia, and yet 
when they came there were left at liberty to go whither 
they would, why did they not then go away to any 
part of the world wherever they thought fit ? and I 
began to examine what should hinder them from making 
such an attempt. 

But my wonder was over when I entered upon that 
subject with the person I have mentioned, who answered 
me thus: "Consider first, sir,'* said he, *<the place 
where we are, and secondly, the condition we are in ; 
especially," said he, ** the generality of the people who 
are banished hither. We are surrounded,'* said he, 
" with stronger things than bars and bolts ; on the 
north side an unnavigable ocean, where ship never 
sailed, and boat never swam ; neither, if we had both, 
could we know where to go with them. Every 
other way," said he, ** we have above a thousand 
miles to pass through the Czar's own dominions, and 
by ways utterly unpassable except by the roads made 

II. U 



3o6 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

by the governor, and by the towns garrisoned by his 
troopsy so that we could neither pass undiscovered 
by the road, or subsist any other way, so that it is in 
▼ain to attempt it.'' 

I was silenced indeed at once, and found that they 
were in a prison every jot as secure as if they had been 
locked up in the castle at Moscow. However, it came 
into my thought that I might certainly be made ao 
instrument to procure the escape of this excellent per- 
son, and that whatever hazard I ran, I would certainly 
try if I could carry him off. Upon this I took an 
occasion one evening to tell him my thoughts. I repre- 
sented to him that it was very easy for me to carry him 
away, there being no guard over him in the country ; 
and as I was not going to Moscow, but to Archan^ 
and that I went in the nature of a caravan, by which 
I was not obliged to lie in the stationary towns in the 
desert, but could encamp every night where I would, 
we might easily pass uninterrupted to Archangel, where 
I would inmiediately secure him on board an English 
or Dutch ship and carry him off safe along with me ; 
and as to his subsistence and other particulars, it should 
be my care till he could better supply himself. 

He heard me very attentively, and looked earnestly 
on me all the while I spoke ; nay, I could see in his 
very face that what I said put his spirits into an exceed- 
ing ferment; his colour n-equently changed, his eyes 
looked red, and his heart fluttered, that it might be 
even perceived in his countenance, nor could he imme- 
diately answer me when I had done, and, as it were, 
expected what he would say to it ; but after he had 
paused a little, he embraced me, and said, << How 
happy are we, unguarded creatures as we are, that even 
our greatest acts of friendship are made snares to us, 
and we are made tempters of one another ! My dear 
friend," said he, *' your offer is so sincere, has such 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRtJSOE. 307 

kindness in it, is so disinterested in itself, and is so cal- 
culated for my advantage, that I must have very little 
knowledge of the world iJF I did not both wonder at it 
and acknowledge the obligation I have upon me to you 
for it. But did you believe I was sincere in what I have 
80 often said to you of my contempt of the world ? Did 
you believe I spoke my very soul to you, and that I had 
really obtained that degree of felicity here, that had 
placed me above all that the world could give me, or 
do for me ? Did you believe I was sincere when I 
told you I would not go back, if I was recalled even 
to all that once I was in the court, with the favour 
of the Czar my master ? Did you believe me, my 
friend, to be an honest man? or did you think me 
to be a boasting hypocrite ? " Here he stopped as if 
he would hear what I would say ; but indeed I soon 
after perceived that he stopped because his spirits were 
in motion ; his great heart was full of struggles, and he 
could not go on. I was, I confess, astonished at the 
thing as well as at the man, and I used some arguments 
with him to urge him to set himself free ; that he ought 
to look upon this as a door opened by Heaven for his 
deliverance, and a summons by Providence, who has the 
care and disposition of all events, to do himself good, 
and to render himself useful in the world. 

He had by this time recovered himself. " How do 
you know, sir," says he warmly, "that instead of a 
summons from Heaven it may not be a feint of another 
instrument, representing in all the alluring colours to 
me the show of felicity as a deliverance, which may 
in itself be my snare, and tend directly to my ruin ? 
Here I am, £ree from the temptation of returning to 
my former miserable greatness; there I am not sure 
but that all the seeds of pride, ambition, avarice, and 
luxury, which I know remain in nature, may revive 
and take root, and in a word, again overwhelm me ; 



308 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

and then the happy prisoner, whom you see now 
master of his soul's Uberty, shall be the miserable 
slave of his own senses, in the full of all personal 
hberty. Dear sir, let me remain in this blessed 
confinement, banished from the crimes of life, rather 
than purchase a show of fi-eedom at the expense of 
the liberty of my reason, and at the expense of the 
future happiness which now I have in my view, bat 
shall then, I fear, quickly lose sight of; for I am but 
flesh, a man, a mere man, have passions and aflfectioos 
as likely to possess and overthrow me as any man. 
Oh, be not my friend and my tempter both together ! " 

If I was surprised before, I was quite dumb now, 
and stood silent, looking at him, and indeed admired 
at what I saw. The struggle in his soul was so great, 
that though the weather was extremely cold it put him 
into a most violent sweat, and I found he wanted to 
give vent to his mind; so I said a word or two, 
that I would leave him to consider of it, and wait 
on him again, and then I withdrew to my own 
apartment. 

About two hours after I heard somebody at or near 
the door of my room, and I was going to open the 
door ; but he had opened it, and came in. ** My dear 
friend," says he, ** you had almost overset me, but I am 
recovered ; do not take it ill that I do not close with 
your offer ; I assure you 'tis not for want of a sense of 
the kindness of it in you, and I came to make the most 
sincere acknowledgment of it to you ; but I hope I 
have got the victory over myself." 

*< My lord," said I, ** I hope you are fully satisfied 
that you do not resist the call of Heaven." — " Sir," 
said he, " if it had been from Heaven, the same Power 
would have influenced me to accept it ; but I hope, 
and am fi?"" that it is from Heaven that I 

m infinite satisfaction in the 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 309 

parting, that you shall leave me an honest man still, 
though not a free man." 

I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make pro- 
fessions to him of my having no end in it but a sincere 
desire to serve him. He embraced me very passion- 
ately, and assured me he was sensible of that, and 
should always acknowledge it ; and with that he 
offered me a very fine present of sables, too much indeed 
for me to accept from a man in his circumstances ; and 
I would have avoided them, but he would not be 
refused. 

The next morning I sent my servant to his lordship 
with a small present of tea and two pieces of China 
damask and four little wedges of Japan gold, which did 
not all weigh above six ounces or thereabout, but 
were far short of the value of his sables, which indeed 
when I came to England I found worth near ^200. 
He accepted the tea and one piece of the damask and 
one of the pieces of gold, which had a fine stamp upon 
it of the Japan coinage, which I found he took for the 
rarity of it, but would not take any more, and he sent 
word by my servant that he desired to speak with me. 

When I came to him, he told me I knew what had 
passed between us, and hoped I wodd not move him 
any more in that affair ; but that since I had made such 
a generous offer to him, he asked me if I had kindness 
enough to offer the same to another person that he 
would name to me, in whom he had a great share of 
concern. I told him that I could not say I inclined 
to do so much for any one but himself, for whom I had 
a particular value, and should have been glad to have 
been the instrument of his deliverance. However, if he 
would please to name the person to me, I would give 
him my answer, and hoped he would not be displeased 
with me if he was with my answer. He told me it 
was only his son, whom, though I had not seen, yet was 



3IO ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

in the same condition with himself, and above two 
hundred miles from him, on the other side the Obi ; 
but that if I consented, he would send for him. 

I made no hesitation, but told him I would do it. I 
made some ceremony in letting him understand that it 
was wholly on his account and that seeing I could not 
prevail on him, I would show my respect to him by my 
concern for his son ; but these things are too tedious to 
repeat here. He sent away the next day for his son, 
and in about twenty days he came back with the 
messenger, bringing six or seven horses loaded with 
very rich furs, and which, in the whole, amounted to a 
very great value. His servants brought the horses into 
the town, but left the young lord at a distance till night, 
when he came incognito into our apartment, and his 
fether presented him to me, and in short, we concerted 
there the manner of our travelling, and everything 
proper for the journey. 

I had bought a considerable quantity of sables, black 
fox-skins, fine ermines, and such other fiirs as are very 
rich ; I say, I had bought them in that city in exchange 
for some of the goods I brought from China ; in par- 
ticular for the cloves and nutmegs, of which I sold the 
greatest part here, and the rest afterwards at Archangel, 
for a much better price than I could have done at 
London ; and my partner, who was sensible of the 
profit, and whose business, more particularly than mine, 
was merchandise, was mightily pleased with our stay 
on account of the traffic we made here. 

It was the beginning of June when I left this 
remote place, a city, I believe, little heard of in the 
world; and indeed it is so far out of the road of 
commerce, that I know not how it should be much 
talked of. We were now come to a very small cara- 
van, being only thirty-two horses and camels in all, 
and all of them passed for mine, though my new guest 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 31I 

was proprietor of eleven of them. It was most 
natural also that I should take more servants with me 
than I had before, and the young lord passed for my 
steward ; what great man I passed for myself I know 
not, neither did it concern me to Inquire, We had 
here the worst and the largest desert to pss over that 
we met with in all the journey j indeed I call it the 
worst, because the way was very deep in some places, 
and very uneven in others ; the best we had to say for 
it was, that we thought we had do troops of Tartars 
and robbers to fear, and that they never came on this 
side the Obi, or at least but very seldom ; but we 
found it otherwise. 

My young lord had witb him a faithful Muscovite 
servant, or rather a Siberian servant, who was per- 
fectly acquainted with the country, and led us by 
private roads that we avoided coming into the prin- 
cipal towns and cities upon the great road, such 
as Tuimen, Solikamsk, and several others, because 
the Muscovite garrisons which are kept there are 
very curious and strict in their observation upon 
traTcUers, and searching lest any of the banished 

Rrsons of note should make their escape that way into 
uscovy ; but by this means, as we were kept out of 
Jie cities, BO our whole journey was a desert, and we 
were obliged to encamp and lie in our tents, when we 
night have had very good accommodation in the cities 
Dn the way. This the young lord was so sensible of, 
that he would not allow us to lie abroad when we came 
] several cities on the way, but lay abroad himself 
with his servant in the woods, and met us always at 
he appointed places. 

We were just entered Europe, having passed the 
river Kama, which in these parts is the boundary 
between Europe and Asia ; and the first city 00 the 
European side was called Solikamsk, which is as 



1 



312 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

much as to say, the great city on the river Kama; 
and here we thought to have seen some evident altera- 
tion in the people, their manner, their habit, their 
religion, and their business; but we were mistaken; 
for as we had a vast desert to pass, which by relation 
is near seven hundred miles long in some places, but 
not above two hundred miles over where we passed it, 
so till we came past that horrible place we foimd very 
little difference between that country and the Mongol 
Tartary; the people most pagans, and little better 
than the savages of America ; tiheir houses and towns 
full of idols, and their way of living wholly barbarous, 
except in the cities as above, and the villages near them ; 
where there are Christians, as they call themselves, of 
the Greek Church, but have their religion mingled 
with so many relics of superstition, that it is scarce 
to be known in some places from mere sorcery and 
witchcraft. 

In passing this forest, I thought indeed we must, 
after all our dangers were, in our imagination, escaped, 
as before, have been plundered and robbed, and perhaps 
murdered, by a troop of thieves ; of what country they 
were, whether the roving bands of the Ostiaks^ a kind 
of Tartars, or wild people on the bank of the Obi, 
and ranged thus far, or whether they were the sable- 
hunters of Siberia, I am yet at a loss to know; but 
they were all on horseback, carried bows and arrows, 
and were at first about five and forty in number. They 
came so near to us as within about two musket-shot ; 
and asking no questions, they surrounded us with their 
horse, and looked very earnestly upon us twice. At 
length they placed themselves just in our way, upon 
which we drew up in a little line before our camels, being 
not above sixteen men in all; and being drawn up 
thus we halted, and sent out the Siberian servant who 
attended his lord to see who they were. His master 



ADVENTURES C 

V/M tbe more williag to let him go, because he ^ 
noc a little apprehenaiTe that they were a Siberian troop 
sent out after him. The man came up near them with 
a flag of truce, and called them ; but though he 
Ejioke eeveral of their languages, or dialecta of languages 
rather, he could not understand a word they said. 
Howerer, after some signs to him not to come nearer 
to them at hia peril, so he said he understood them to 
mean, offering to shoot at him if he advanced, the 
fellow came back no wiser than he went, only that by 
their dress, he said he believed them to be aome Tartars 
of Kalmuck, or of Circaaaian hordes ; and that there 
must be more of them upon the great desert, though 
he never heard that any of them ever were seen so iar 
north before. 

This was small comfort to us ; however, we had 
no remedy. There was on our left hand, at about a 
quarter of a mile's distance, a little grove or clump of 
trees, which stood close together, and very near the 
road. I immediately resolved we would advance to 
those trees, and fortify ourselves as well aa we could 
there ; for £rst, I considered that the treea would in a 
great measure cover us from their arrows j and in the 
next place, they could not come to charge us in a 
body. It was indeed my old Portuguese pilot who 
proposed it, and who had this excellency attending 
him, namely, that he was always readiest and most ajit 
to direct and encourage us in cases of the most danger. 
We advanced immediately with what speed we could 
and gained that little wood, the Tartars, or thieves, for 
we know not what to call thera, keeping their stand, 
and not attempting to hinder us. When we came 
thither, we found to our great satisfaction thai it was 
a Bwampy, springy piece of ground, and on the one 
side a very great spring of water, which running out in a 
little rill or brook, was a little farther joined by another 



314 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

of the like bignets, and was, in then, the head or 
source of a considerable river, called afterwards the 
Wirtska. The trees which grew aboot this spring 
were not in all above two hundred, bat were very 
large, and stood pretty thick, so that as soon as we 
got in we saw ourselves perfecdy safe from the enemy, 
unless they alighted and attacked us on foot. But to 
make this more difficult our Portuguese, with inde- 
£itigable application, cut down great arms of the trees, 
and laid them hanging, not quite cut ofiT, from one tree 
to another, so that he made a continued fence almost 
round us. 

We stayed here waiting the motion of the enemy 
some hours, without perceiving they made any 
motion ; when, about two hours before night, they came 
down direcdy upon us ; and though we had not per- 
ceived it, we toxmd they had been joined by some 
more of the same, so that they were near fourscore 
horse, whereof, however, we fancied some were 
women. They came on till they were within half 
shot of our little wood, when we fired one musket 
without ball, and called to them in the Russian tongue 
to know what they wanted, and bid them keep off; 
but as if they knew nothing of what we said, they 
came on with a double fury directly up to the wood- 
side, not imagining we were so barricaded that they 
could not break in. Our old pilot was our captain, as 
well as he had been our engineer, and desired of us 
not to fire upon them till they came within pistol-shot, 
and that we might be sure to kill, and that when we did 
fire we should be sure to take good aim. We bade 
him give the word of command, which he delayed so 
long that they were, some of them, within two pikes' 
length of us when we fired. 

We aimed so true, or Providence directed our shot 
80 sure, that we killed fourteen of them and wounded 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 315 

several others, as also several of their horses ; for we 
had all of us loaded our pieces with two or three 
bullets at least. 

They were terribly surprised with our fire, and 
retreated immediately about one hundred rods from us, 
in which time we loaded our pieces again, and seeing 
them keep that distance, we sallied out, and catched 
four or five of their horses, whose riders, we suppose, 
were killed; and coming up to the dead, we could 
easily perceive they were Tartars, but knew not from 
what country, or how they came to make an excursion 
such an unusual length. 

About an hour after they made a motion to attack 
us again, and rode round our little wood to see where 
else they might break in ; but finding us always ready 
to ^ce them, they went o^ again, and we resolved not 
to stir from the place for that night. 

We slept little you may be sure, but spent the most 
part of the night in strengthening our situation, and 
barricading the entrances into the wood, and keeping a 
strict watch. We waited for daylight, and when it 
came, it gave us a very unwelcome discovery indeed ; 
for the enemy, whom we thought were discouraged 
with the reception they had met with, were now in- 
creased to no less than three hundred, and had set up 
eleven or twelve huts and tents, as if they were resolved 
to besiege us; and this little camp they had pitched 
upon the open plain, at about three-quarters of a mile 
from us. We were indeed surprised at this discovery ; 
and now, I confess, I gave myself over for lost, and all 
that I had. The loss of my effects did not lie so near 
me, though they were very considerable, as the thoughts 
of falling into the hands of such barbarians at the latter 
end of my journey, after so many difficulties and hazards 
as I had gone through, and even in sight of our port, 
where we expected safety and deliverance. As for my 



31 6 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

partner, he was raging; he declared that to lose his 
goods would be his ruin, and he would rather die 
than be starved, and he was for fighting to the last 
drop. 

The young lord, as gallant as ever flesh showed 
itself, was for fighting to the last also ; and my old 
pilot was of the opinion we were able to resist them all 
m the situation we were then in, and thus we spent the 
day in debates of what we should do ; but towards 
evening we found that the nimiber of our enemies still 
increased. Perhaps, as they were abroad in several 
parties for prey, the first had sent out scouts to call 
for help, and to acquaint them of the booty ; and we 
did not know but by the morning they might still be a 
greater number ; so I began to inquire of those people 
we had brought from Tobolsk if there was no other, 
or more private ways, by which we might avoid them 
in the night, and perhaps either retreat to some town, 
or get help to guard us over the desert. 

The Siberian, who was servant to the young lord, 
told us if we designed to avoid them and not fight, he 
would engage to carry us off in the night to a way that 
went north towards the Petrov, by which he made no 
question but we might get away, and the Tartars never 
the wiser, but he said his lord had told him he would not 
retreat, but would rather choose to fight. I told him 
he mistook his lord, for that he was too wise a man to 
love fighting for the sake of it ; that I knew his lord 
was brave enough by what he had showed already ; but 
that his lord knew better than to desire to have seven- 
teen or eighteen men fight five hundred, unless an un- 
avoidable necessity forced them to it ; and that if he 
thought it possible for us to escape in the night, we 
had nothing else to do but to attempt it. He answered, 
if his lord gave him such orders, he would lose his life 
if hr '*'*'* "'** perform it. We soon brought his lord to 



AlDVENTURfiS OP ROBINSON CRUSOE 317 

give that order, though privately, and we immediately 
prepared for the putting it in practice. 

And first, as soon as it began to be dark we kindled 
a fire in our little camp, which we kept burning, and 
prepared so as to make it burn all night, that the Tartars 
might conclude we were still there ; but as soon as it 
was dark, that is to say, so as we could see the stars, 
for our guide would not stir before, having all our 
horses and camels ready loaded, we followed our new 
guide, who, I soon found, steered himself by the 
pole or north star, all the country being level for a 
long way. 

After we had travelled two hours very hard it began 
to be lighter still, not that it was quite dark all night, 
but the moon began to rise, so that, in a word, it 
was rather lighter than we wished it to be; by six 
o'clock the next morning we were gotten near forty 
miles, though the truth is we almost spoiled our horses. 
Here we found a Russian village named Kermazinskoy 
\J Kertchemskoy], where we rested, and heard nothing 
of the Kalmuck Tartars that day. About two hours 
before night we set out again, and travelled till eight the 
next morning, though not quite so quiet as before ; and 
about seven o'clock we passed a little river called Kirtza, 
and came to a good large town inhabited by Russians, 
and very populous, called Ozomoys Q?]. There we 
heard that several troops or hordes of Kalmucks had 
been abroad upon the desert, but that we were now 
completely out of danger of them, which was to our 
great satisfaction, you may be sure. Here we were 
obliged to get some fresh horses, and having need 
enough of rest, we stayed five days ; and my partner 
and I agreed to give the honest Siberian who brought us 
thither the value of ten pistoles for his conducting us. 

In five days more we came to Veuslima f ?], upon 
the river Vychegda, and running into the Dwina ; we 



31 8 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

were there very happily near the end of our travels by 
landy that river being navigable in seven days' passage 
to ArchangeL From hence we came to Lawrenskoy 
[? Jarenskj] the 3rd of July, and providing ourselves 
with two luggage-boats and a barge for our own con- 
venience, we embarked the yth, and arrived all safe at 
Archangel the i Sth, having been a year and five months 
and three days on the journey, including our stay of 
eight months and odd days at Tobolsk. 

We were obliged to stay at this place six weeks for 
the arrival of the ships, and must have tarried longer 
had not a ELamburger come in above a month sooner 
than any of the English ships, when, after some con- 
sideration that the xity of Hamburg might happen to 
be as good a market for our goods as London, we all 
took freight with him ; and having put my goods on 
board, it was most natural for me to put my steward on 
board to take care of them, by which means my young 
lord had a sufficient opportunity to conceal himself 
never coming on shore in all the time we stayed there ; 
and this he did, that he might not be seen in the city, 
where some of the Moscow merchants would certainly 
have seen and discovered him. 

We sailed from Archangel the 20th of August 
the same year, and after no extraordinary bad voyage 
arrived in the Elbe the 1 3th of September. Here my 
partner and I found a very good sale for our goods, as 
well those of China as the sables, &c., of Siberia ; 
and dividing the produce of our effects, my share 
amounted to ^3475, 17s. 3d., notwithstanding so many 
losses we had sustained, and charges we had been at ; 
only remembering that I had included in this about 
six hundred pounds' worth of diamonds, which I had 
purchased at Bengal. 

Here the young lord took his leave of us, and went 
up the Elbe in order to go to the court of Vienna, 



ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 319 

where he resolved to seek protection, and where he could 
correspond with those of his father's friends who were 
left alive. He did not part without all the testimonies 
he could give me of gratitude for the service I had 
done him, and his sense of my kindness to the prince 
his father. 

To conclude. Having stayed near four months in 
Hamburg, I came from thence overland to the Hague, 
where I embarked in the packet, and arrived in London 
the loth of January 1705, having been gone firom 
England ten years and nine months. 

And here resolving to harass myself no more, I am 

{)reparing for a longer journey than all these, having 
ived seventy-two years a life of «infinite variety, and 
learnt sufficiently to know the value of retirement, and 
the blessing of ending our days in peace. 



ft 



END OF VOL. II. 



Pri$Utd ly BAXXANTYNE, HANSON & Ca 
Edi»Untr£h and Londtn 



I 

* 

. 1 



i _ 
I* 



f 



r-^ 



i 



3 2044 018 697 40 



This book 
the Library on l 
amped below. ___^^_ 

A fine is incurred by retaining it 
beyond ihe speciBed time. 

Please return promptly. 




■1 


1 



