Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



n 







(^ ^m// i^'^/^f^// 




(l^\o) 



THE 

LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

TO WBICH » netixio 

A BIOGRAPHICAL MEUOIR OF 

DANIEL DB FOB. 

VOL. I. 

EMBEI.LIBHBD WITH WOODEK CVTB. 



EDINBURGH ; 

BMntth Br laaoB lUOamw nA €», 

FOR JOHN BALLAKTYNB AKD Co. AHD BBOWM Al 

CBOHBiE, edihbubgh; 

XHQ LOHOMAN, HURST, BKBS, AND OBVB, 



•THE NEW YOSK 

^^BLIC LIBRARY 

x?18802A 



CONTENTS 

OF 

VOLUME FIRST. 



Biographical Memoir of Daniel Db Foe.' . . . . i 



The Life and A.dyentures of 
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

Chaf. I. 

My Birth and Parentage — At nineteen years of age I de- 
termine to go to Sea — Dissuaded by my Parents — Elope 
with a School-fellow, and go on board Ship — A Storm 
arises, during which I am dreadfully frightened — Ship 
founders— Myself and Crew saved by a Boat from another 
Vessel, and landed near Yarmouth — Meet my Compa* 
^ nion*s Father there, who advises me never to go to Sea 
^ more, but all in vain 1 

O 

i^ Chap. II. 

CO Make a trading Voyage to Guinea very successfully — Death 

^ of my Captain — Sail another Trip with his Mate — The 

"^ Vengeance of Providence for Disobedience to Parents 

now overtakes me — Taken by a Bailee Rover, and all sold 



il CONTENTS. 

as Slaves — ^My Master frequently sends me a-fishing, 
which suggests an Idea of Escape — Make my Escape io 
an open Boat, with a Moresco Boy. 84 

Chaf. III. 

Make for the Southward, in hopes of meeting with some 
European Vessel— See Savages along Shore — Shoot a 1 

large Leopards-Am taken up by a Merchantman — Ar- i 

rive at the Brazils, and buy a Settlement there— Cannot 
be quiet, but sail on a Voyage of adventure to Guinea — I 

Ship strikes on a Sand-bank • in unkpown Land — All lost 
but myself, who am driven ashore, half dead .44 

Chaf. IV. 

Appearance of the Wreck and Country next day — Swim on 
board of the Ship, and, by means of a contrivance, get a 
quantity of Stores onshore — Shoot a bird, but it turns out 
perfect carrion — Moralize upon my situation — The Ship 
blown off Land — Set out m search of a proper place for 
a habitation — See numbers of Goats — Melancholy re- 
flections 75 

Chaf. V. 

I begin to keep a Journal — Christen my desart Island the 
Island of Despair — Fall upon various schemes to make 
Tools, Baskets, &c ; and begin to build my House— At a 
great loss of an evening for Candle, but fall upon an ex- 
pedient to supply the want— Strange discovery of Com— 
A terrible Earthquake, and Storm 110 

Chaf. VI. 
Observe a Ship driven aground by the late Storm— Prp- 

10 



CONTENTS. m 

care a vast quantity of neceflsaries from the Wreck 
— Catch a large Turtle — I fall ill of a Fever and Ague — 
■ Terrible Dream, and serious reflections therenpoo— Find 
a Bible in one of the Seamen's Chests thrown ashore^ the 
reading whereof gives me great comfort. . • . . • 138 

Chap. YII. 

I begin to take a survey of my Island — Discover plenty of 
Tobacco, Grapes, Lemons, and Sugar Canes, wild, but no 
human Inhabitants — Resolve to lay up a store of these 
articles, to furnish me against the wet season— Bfy Cat, 
which I supjiobed lost, returns with Kitten^I regulate 
my Diet, :and shut myself up for the wet season.-*Sow 
my Grain, which comes to nothing ; but I discover, and 
remedy my error — Take account of the course of the 
Weather 156 

Chap. VIII. 

Make a second Tour through the Island — Catch a young 
Parrot, which I afterwards teach to speak — ^My mode of 
sleeping at night — Find the other side of the island more 
pleasant than mine, and covered with Turtle and Sea-fowl 
— Catch a young Kid, which I tame — Return to my old 
habitation — Great plague with my Harvest. 178 

Chap. IX. 

I attempt to mould earthen ware, and succeed — Descrip- 
tion of my mode of baking — Begin to make a Boat — 
After it is finished, am unable to get it down to the Wa- 
ter—Serious reflections— My Ink and Biscuit exhausted, 
and Clothes in a bad state — Contrive to make a Dress of 
Skins 818 



It contents. 



Chap. X. 

I succeed in gettiiig a Ciiiioe afloat, and set oat on a 
Toya|;e in the sixth year of my reign^ or captivity— 
Blown out to Sea— Reach the Shore with great dUBculty 
—Fall asleep, and am awakened by a voice calling my 
name — Devise various schemes to tame Goats, and at last 
succeed. ......,..«.; « 238. 

Chap. XI. 

Description of my Figure — Also of my Dwelling and In- 
closures — Dreadful alarm on seeing the Print of a Man*s 
Foot on the Shore — Reflections'— Take every possible 
measure of precaution S38 

Chap. XII. 

I observe a Canoe out at Sea — Find on the Shore the rem- 
nant of a fe^t of Cannibals — Horror of mind thereon — 
Double arm myself—Terribly alarmed by a Goat"— Dis- 
cover a singular Cave, or Grotto, of which I form my 
Magazine — My fears on account of the Savages begin to 
subside « 261 



BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR 

OF 

DANIEL DE FOE. 



PsiHAPS there exists no work, either of instruc- 
tion or entertainment, in the English language, 
which has been more generally read, and more 
universally admired, than the Life and Adventures 
of Robinson Crusoe. It is difficult to say in what 
the charm consists, by which persons of all classes 
and denominations are thus fascinated ; yet the mar 
jority of readers will recollect it as amongst the 
£rst works which awakened' and interested their 
youthfnl attention; and feel, even in advanced life, 
and in the maturity of their understanding, that 
there are still associated with Robinson Crusoe, the 

VOL. 1. A 



a BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR 

sentiments peculiar to that period, when all is new> 
all glittering in prospect, and when those visions 
are most bright, which the experience of after life 
tends only to darken and destroy. 

This work was first published in April 1719 ; its 
reception, as may be supposed, was universal. It 
is a singular circumstance, that the Author, (the sub^ 
ject of our present Memoir,) after a life spent in po- 
litical turmoil, danger, and imprisonment, should 
have occupied himself, in its decline, in the produc- 
tion of a work like the present ; unless it may be 
supposed, that his wearied heart turned with dis- 
gust from society and its institutions, and found so- 
lace in picturing the happiness of a state, such as 
he has assigned to his hero. Be this as it may, so- 
ciety is for ever indebted to the memory of Be Foe 
for his production of a work, in which the ways of 
Providence are simply and pleasingly vindicated, 
and a lasting and ui^fiil moral is conveyed through 
the channel of an interesting and delightful story. 

Daniel De Foe was bom in London in the year 
1663. His fether was James Foe, of the parish of 
St Giles', butcher. Much curious speculation, with 



OF DANIEL DE FOB. Ul 

which we shall not jbrouble our readers, has arisen 
from the circumstaoce of Daniel's having, in his 
own instance, prefixed the De to the fisunily name. 
We are inclined to adopt the opinion of that critical 
enquirer, who supposes, that Daniel did so, being 
ashamed of the lowness of his origin. His family; 
as well as himself, were Dissenters ; but it does not 
appear that his tenets were so strict as his sect re- 
quired ; for he complains, in the Preface to his More 
RrformaHon, *' that some Dissenters had reproached 
him, as if he had said, that the gallows and the gal- 
lies ought to be the penalty of going to the conven- 
ticle ; forgetting, that I must design to have mffa^ 
ikcr^ my wife, six innocerU children, and n^fs^, put 
into the same condition.'' 

De Foe's education was rather circumscribed, 
which is the more to be lamented, as, in so many 
instances, he has exhibited proofs of rare natural 
genius. He was sent by his father, at twelve years 
old, to the Newington Gr^n Dissenting Academy, 
then kept by Mr Morton, where he remained about 
four years ; and this appears to have been all the 
education he ever received. When he was remand- 



It BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR 

ed from school, it wonld seem, that, his genius not 
lying towards the marrow-hone and cleaver, his fa- 
ther had put him to some other trade ; of what na- 
tare we are unable to learn, De Foe himself being 
very reserved on the subject. When charged by 
Tutchin* with having his breeding as an appren- 
tice to a hosier, be asserts (May 1705) " that he 
never was a hosier, f or an apprentice, but admits 
that he had been a trader/' 

This, however, had occupied but a short period 
of his youth; -for in 1685, when he was in his 
twenty-second year, he took up arms in the cause 
of the duke of Monmouth. On the destruction of 
Monmouth's party, Daniel had the good fortune to 
escape unpunished amidst the herd oi greater de- 
linquents ; but, in his latter years, when the avowal 
was no longer dangerous, he boasts himself much 



*w Tutchin, the pnblbher of the Observatory and a steady 
opponent of Dc Foe's both in politics and literature. 

f Perhaps the salvo he laid to his conscience for this 
apparently false assertion, was, that though he dealt ia 
liose, he did not make them. 



OF DANIEL DE FOE. v 

of his exploits, in His Appeal to Honour and Jus- 
iice, being a true Account of his Conduct in Public 
Affairs, 

Two years afterwards (1688), Be Foe was ad- 
mitted a Liyeryman of London. As he had been 
throughout a steadry advocate for the Hevolution, 

he had now the satisfaction of witnessing that great 

Ik * 
eyent. Oldmixon says> (Works, Vol. II. p. 276) 

that s^t a feast, given by the Lord Mayor of London 
to King William, on the 29th October, 1689, De 
Foe appeared gallantly mounted, and richly accou- 
tred, amongst the troopers commanded by Lord 
Peterborough, who attended the king and queen 
from Whitehall to the Mansion-house. All Da- 
niers horsemanship, however, united to the steady 
devotion of his pen to the cause of William, were 
unable to procure him the notice of that cold-cha- 
ractered monarch; and our author was fain to 
content himself (as his adversary Tutchin asserts) 
with the humble occupation of a hosier in Free- 
man's Yard, Cornhill ; — wisely considering, that if 
the court could do without political tracts, the pe<h 
pie coqld not do without stockings. 



ti BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR 

With the ill fortune, however, attendant upon 
those men of genius, who cultivate their superior 
powers to the neglect of that common sense, which 
is requisite to carry a man creditably through this 
every-day world, De Foe's aliairs declined Irom 
bad to worse ; he spent those hours, which he ought 
to have devoted to his shop, in a society for the 
cultivation of polite learning, and he was under the 
necessity of absconding from his creditors in 1692. 
One of those creditors, who had less consideration 
for polite learning, and more irritability than the 
rest, took out a commission of bankruptcy against 
him ; but, fortunately for our author, this was su- 
perseded on the petition of those to whom he was 
most indebted, and a composition was accepted. 
This composition he punctually paid by efforts of 
unwearied diligehce ; and some of the creditors, 
whose claims had been thus satisfied, falling into 
distress themselves, he waited upon them, and paid 
their debts in full. He was next engaged in carry- 
ing on tile-works, on the banks of the Thames, near 
Tilbury, but with little success; for it was sarcasti- 
cally said of him, that he did not, ** like the £g3rp- 



OF DANIEL DB FOE. vU 

tians^ require bricks without straw; bul» like the 
Jews^ required bricks without paying his labour* 
ers.'' United to his tile-making, our author^ sti- 
mulated by an active mind and embarrassed cir- 
cumstanceat, devised many other schemei^ or, as 
he called them, projects. He wrote many sheets 
about the English coin; he pixjected Banks for 
every county, and Factories for goods; he exhibi* 
ted a Proposal (very feelingly, no doubt) for a com- 
mission of enquiry into bankrupt's estates; he con- 
trived a Pension-office for the relief of the poor, 
and finished, by publishing a long Essay upon pro- 
jects themselves* 

About this period (1695), our author's indeik- 
tigable endeavours procured him some notice from 
the court, and he was appointed accountant to the 
conunissioners for managing the duties on glass. 
Here also his usual ill luck attended him; he was 
thrown out of his .situation by the suppression of the 
tax in 1699. 

But the time at length arrived when the sun of 
royal favour was to shine out upon our author's 
prospects. About the end of 1699# there was pub* 



I 



Tiii BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR 



t€ 
€t 
€€ 



it 
9€ 



lisfaed, what De Foe calls, " an horrid pamphlet, in 
very ill verse, written by one Tutchin, and called 
The Foreigners : in which the author fell person- 
ally upon the king, then upon the Dutch nation, 
and, after having reproached his majesty with 
" crimes, that his worst enemies could not think of 
without horror, he sums up all in the odious name 
of Foreigner, This filled me with rage against 
" the book, and gave birth to a trifle, which I ne- ' 

« ver could hope should have met with so general 
** an acceptation/' 

The trifle, which De Foe here alludes to, was his 
Tme Bom Englishman ; a poetical satire on the Fo- 
reigners, and a defence of King William and the 
Dutch ; of which the sale was great without exam- 
ple, and our author's reward proportionate. He was 
even admitted to the honour of a personal inter- 
view with the king, and became with more ardour 
than ever a professed partizan of the court 

His first publication afterwards, was. The origin 
fud JRmwr of the Collective Body qf the People of 
England examined and asserted; next, An Argument 
to prove, that a standing Am^, with consent of Part 



OF dani;bl de foe. u 

Uament, was not inconsukna with a free GovemmetU; 
but, as we do not mean to follow De Foe through 
the career of his politics, and intend only to notice 
sttch as, in their consequences, materially afiected 
his personal situation and affairs, we shall pass to 
the death of his sovereign and patron, which took 
place 8th March, 1702.^ 

The accession of Anne having restored the line 
of Stuart, to whom the politics and conduct of De 
Foe had been peculiarly obnoxious, our author was 
shortly reduced, as before, to live on the produce 
of his wits : and it is perhaps lucky for the world, 
that there is so much truth in the universal out-cry 
against the neglect of living ahthors; for there 
seems a certain laziness concomitant with genius, 
which can only be incited to action by the pres- 
sure of necessity. Had William lived, probably 



* Feb. 26. William, riding from Kensiogton towards 
Hampton, was thrown from his hone, and broke his collar* 
bone. He lingered till the morning of March 8th, when he 
died about eight o*clock» in the fifty-iecoiid year of hi# 
age. 



BIOGRAPHICAL MSMOIR f 



the world woold neyer have been delighted with 
the Adyentures of Robinsoa Crusoe. 

Whether De Foe found politics the most yen- 
dible produce of the pressp.or, like Macbeth, felt 
bimfelf 

. Stept in to fiir, that should I wade no more, 
Retorning were as tedioas as go o*er, — 

we are yet to learn ; but he yentured to reprint 
liift Shortest Way with the Dissenters; and to publish 
•eyend other treatises^ which were considered libel- 
kms by the Commons : and on the 2$th of Febru- 
ary, 1702-S> a complaint being made in the House, 
of a book, entitled, The Shortest Way \mth the Dis^ 
senters; and the folios 11 — 18 and 26 being read, 
'' Resolyed, that this book, being fiill of fidse and 
scandalqus reflections on this Parliament, and tend- 
ing to promote sedition, be burnt by the hands of 
the common hangman, in New Palace-Yard/' 

Our unfortunate author's political sins were now 
ill mustered in array against him, and a tremen- 
tous catalogue they made. He had been the feyou- 
ite and panegyrist of William ; he had fought for 



OF DANIEL DB FOE. xi 

Monmouth, and opposed James ; he had vindicated 
the ReTolutioDy and defended the rights of the peo- 
ple ; he had bantered, insulted, and oflfended, the 
whole Tory leaders of the Commons ; and, after 
all, he could not be quiet, but must republish his 
most offensive productions. 

Tlius overpowered, De Foe was obliged to se- 
crete himself; and we are indebted to a very dis- 
agreeable circumstance for the following accurate 
description of his person. A proclamation was ui- 
«tted by the secretaries of state, in January 1705, 
in the following terms : 

<< St Jame8*8, Jan. 10, 1708-8. 
^ Whereas Daniel De Foe, (Utas De Fooe, is 
charged with writing a scandalous and seditious 
pamphlet, entitled, " The Shortest Way with the 
Dissenters :'' he is a middle-sized spare man, about 
forty years old, of a brown complexion, and dark- 
brown coloured hair, but wears a wig, a hooked 
nose, a sharp chin, grey eyes, and a large mole 
near his mouth; was born in London, and for 
many years was a hose-factor, in Freeman's Yar 



zii BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR 

in Cornhill, and now is owner of the brick and 
pantile works near Tilbury-fort, in Essex: who- 
ever shall discover the said Daniel De Foe to one 
of her majesty's principal secretaries of state, or 
any of her majesty's justices of peace, so as he- 
may be apprehended, shall have a reward of £ 50, 
which her majesty has ordered immediately to be 
paid upon suclTdiscovery/' 

He was shortly after caught, fined, pilloried, and 
imprisoned. '' Thus,'' says he, '' was I a second 
lime ruined ; for by this affair I lost above £ 3,500 
sterUng." 

While he was confined in Newgate, he occupied 
his time in correcting for the press a collection of 
his own writings, which was published in the course 
of the year ; and he even amused himself by wri- 
ting an Ode to the PiUory ; of which he had so 
lately been made the unwilling acquaintance. But 
the chief object to which he directed his mind, was 
the projection of Hie Review. The publication of this 
periodical work commenced in 4>to, on the 19th Fe- 
bruary, noi, and continued at the rate of two num- 
bers a week, tiU March, 1105, when an additional 



Ot DANIEL DE FOB. Xiil 

weekly number was published, and it was continued 
eyery Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday, till May, 
1713, forming in whole nine thick volumes. De 
Foe was the sole writer. This work treats of fo- 
reign and domestic intelligence, politics, and trade; 
but as our author foresaw thst it was not likely to 
become popular unless amusing, he discosses vari- 
ous other topics, under the head of a Scandal Club; 
Love, Marriage, Poetry, Language, and the pre- 
vailing tastes and habits of the times. Neither did 
these occupations find sufficient employment for 
his active mind. While Ke was still in Newgate, 
(1704,) he published Tlie Storm; or a collection of 
the most remarkable casualties which happened in 
the tempest, 26th November, 1705. Nor was this 
work a dry detail of disasters only, De Foe having 
taken the occasion, with his usual felicity, to incul- 
cate the truths of religion, and the superintenden- 
cy of Providence.* 



* The following: account of this tremendotu visitatioa 
u extracted from the records of the period. 
*' November M. About midnight began the most terrible 



lit BIOGRAPHICAL MBMOIR 

About the end of 1704, when, as oar author tells 
usy he lay ruined and friendless in Newgate, without 
hopes of deliverance. Sir Robert Harley, then se- 
cretary of state, of whom De Foe had no previous 
personal knowledge, sent a verbal message to him, 
desiring to know " what he could do for him/^ Our 
author, no doubt, made a suitable reply ; in conse- 



itorm that had been known in England, the wind W.S.Mr. 
attended with flashes of lightning. It uncovered the roofs 
of many houses and churches, blew down the spires of se- 
veral steeples and chimneys, tore whole groves of trees up 
by the roots. The leads of some churches were rolled up 
like scrolls of parchment, and several vessels, boats and 
barges, were sunk in the river of Thames ; but the royal 
navy sustained the greatest damage, being just returned 
from the Straits : four third rates, one second rate, four 
fourth rates, and many others of less force, were cast away 
upon the coast of England, and above fifteen hundred sea- 
men lost, besides those that were cast away in merchant 
ships. The loss that London alone sustained was computed 
at one million sterling, and the city of Bristol lost to the 
amount of two hundred thousand pounds. Among the per- 
sons who were drowned was Rear- Admiral Beaumont. 

'< Upon this calamity the Commons addressed her miyesty, 
that she would give directions for rebuilding and repairing 
the royal navy ; and that she would make some provision 
for the families of those seamen that perished in the storm, 
with which her miyesty complied." 



OF DANIEL DE FOE. *w 

qiience of which* Sir Robert took an opportanity to 
represent to the queen his present misery, and un« 
merited sufierings. Anne, however, did not imme- 
diately consent to his liberation, bat she enquired 
into the circumstances of his family, and sent, by 
Lord Godolphin, a considerable sum to his wife. 
She afterwards, through the same medium, convey- 
ed a Sum to himself, equal to the payment of his 
fine and discharge* and thus bound him ettsmally to 
- her interest He was liberated from Newgate the 
end of 1704, and retired immediately to his fa- 
mily at St Edmund's-Bury. He was not allow- 
ed, however, to enjoy the quiet he courted. Book- 
sellers, news-writers, and wits, circulated every- 
where reports, that he had fled from justice, and 
deserted his security. He despised their spite, and 
resumed his labours ; the first fruits of which were» 
a Hymn to Victory , and a Double Welcome to the 
Duke qf Marlborough; the subjects for both of which 
were furnished by the glorious achievements of that 
generaL 

. Our author now continued his Reoiew, and his 
political pamphleteering, for several years; in the 



XYi BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR 

course of which he was subjected to much disquiet, 
and frequently to danger ; but the consciousness of 
bis situation as an English freeholder, and a livery- 
man of Londota> united to a considerable degree of 
resolution and personal courage, enabled him to 
encounter and overcome the machinations of his 
enemies. It will scarcely be believed, at this time 
of day, that, on a journey which his afiairs led 
faim to take to the western parts of England, a pro- 
ject was formed to kidnap and send him as a sol- 
dier to the army; that the western justices, in the 
ardour of their party zeal, determined to appre- 
hend him as a vagabond ; and that suits were com- 
menced against him in his absence for fictitious 
debts : Yet all these circumstances De Foe has as- 
serted in. his Review; and we have not learnt that 
any attempt was ever made to controvert the truth 
of his statements. 

About this time (1706) a situation occurred, &r 
which our author's abilities were peculiarly fit- 
ted. The cabinet of Queen Anne was in want of a 
person of general commercial knowledge, ready ta- 
lents, and insinuating manners, to go to Scotland 



or DAHIEL DE FO£. xtU 

foi^ the purpoMi of promoting the great measore of 
the Union. Lord Godolphin determined to employ 
De Foe ;• he accordingly carried him to the queen^ 
by whom our author was graciously recetyed, and 
in a few days he was sent to Edinburgh. The parti- 
cular nature of his instructions has never been made 
public ; but on his arrival at Edinburgh^ in Octo* 
heVf nOQ, De Foe was recognized as a character 
almost diplomatic. We must refer our readers to 
his History qf the Union, for the various and inte- 
resting particulars of this mission ; the detail of 
which, here, would occupy an extent beyond the 
limits of our biography. 

De Foe appears to have been no great favouiT- 
ite in Scotland, although^ while there, he publish* 
ed Caledonia, a poem in honour of the nation. He 
mentions many hair-breadth 'scapes, which, by 
^' his own prudence, and God's providence,"*' he ef- 
fected ; and it is not wonderful, that where almost 
the whole nation was decidedly averse to the Union, 
a character like De Foe, sent thither to promote it 
by ail means, direct and indirect, should be W 
garded with dislike, and even exposed to danger. 

VOL. !• a 



XTuI BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR 

The act for the Uaioii was parsed by the Scotch par« 
liament in January^ and De Foe returned to London 
in February, 1707. It is believed that 1^ services 
were rewarded by a pension from Queen Anne* 

Daring the troublous period^ at the conclusion of 
the war by the treaty of Utrecht, De Foe, wiser by 
ezponence, lived quietly at Newington, publishing 
has Review. He encountered, however, in the fuW 
filment of this task, much contentious opposition 
and obloquy, which he manfully reasted and re- 
torted ; butv after the political change^ by which 
bis first patron Sir Robert Harley, and next Lord 
Gpdolphin, were turned out of power,, his pecuniary 
allowance from the Treasury seems to have ceased, 
and he was compelled, as before^, to launch out a* 
a general writer for the supply of his necessities. 
The political agitation of the times dictated his sub- 
jects ; but, unfortunately for De Foe, both Tories 
and Jacobites, in those days,, were such plain maW 
ter-of-fact men, that his raillery was misunderstood, 
and he was arrested, and committed to his old ha^ 
bitation, lor several squibs, which were obviously 
ironical. 



OF DANIBL D£ FOE. aU 

? The writings on which he was indicted, wttt 
two; Whai ifihePrdenderahoM comer 9DA,WhiA 
ifthe^uem^mdddier '' NoOnng/' says De fb6, 
^ fxiold be more pkin, than that the titlea of these 
^' are amuBeraentSy in order to get the books into 
** the hands of those who had been deluded by the 
^' Jacobites.'' His explanation would not suffice ; 
he was tried mid found gu^ty^ fined in ^B00« 
and committed to Newgate. He was now com*- 
pelled to drop the publication of fais Review; and 
it is singular, that he did so while confined in 
•Newgate> the very place in which its idea had first 
entered his head nine years before. 

After lying in jail a few monUis, he was libera- 
led by the queen's order in November^ 1715. 

Although thus released, and the innocenee of 
;bis intentions admitted, if not estaUished, nothing 
was done for him ; and the queen's death, which 
:took place shortly afi;er, (in July, 1714) kfi: him 
defenceless to the attacks of his ranoorous enemies. 
" No sooner," says he, '' was the queen dead, and 
" the king^ as right requirec^ proclaimed, but the 
" rage of men encreased upon me to that degree. 



u BIOGRAPHICAL MEBfOIR 

*f that their threats were sach as I am unabTe't*: 
''express; and though I have written nolliing 
^ since the queen's deaths yet a great many things 
" are called by my name, and I bear the answer- 
** ex^8 insults;'' This was the darkest period of our 
anthor^s life. He had lost his appointment, what* 
eyer it was ; he had been oblig^ to giye up his 
Eeyiew;. every thing he- yentured to publish be- 
aides, was received with suspicion^ and he was on 
all hands overborne by faction, injury, and in- 
sult. His. health declined ' fast under these un- 
merited stirrings, but the vigour of his mind re- 
mained $ and he determined to assert the innocence 
of his conduct, and to clear his blemished fame. 
He accordingly published, in 1715, ** An Appeai 
to Honour and Justice, though it be of his worst 
Enemies, beif^ a TVue Account qf his Conduct in 
Public Affairs.** This work contains a long ao- 
coont and defence of his political conduct from 
the outset, and a most affecting detail of his su^ 
ferings ; but the subject had been too much for him. 
When he reviewed what he had done, and how he 
had been rewarded ; how much he had deserved, and 
how heavily he had 8u£fered^ the ardent spirit oiD% 



OF DANIBL DE FOE. szl 

Foe sunk before the pictare, and he was struck with 
apoplexy before he cocdd finish his work. It was 
published nevertheless by his friends^ and the pro-, 
fits of its sale seem to have been the only source of 
his support This was the terminatmg period of our 
author^s political career. He recovered his health, 
but his mind had changed its tone; and it was 
now that the history of Selkirk first suggested to 
him the idea of Robinson Crusoe. It has been 
thought by some to detract from the merit of De 
Foe, that the idea was not originally his own : but 
really the story of Selkirk, which had been pub- 
lished a few years before, in Woodes Rogers'* 
Voyage round the World, appears to have fur- 
nished our author with so little beyond the bare 
idea of a man living upon an uninhabited island, 
that it appears quite immaterial whether he took 



* Woodei Rogen, who reliered Selkirk from his Bolitade, 
was, at that time, commodore of a commercial expedition 
round the world, which sailed February 1709, and retnmed 
to Britain IT 1 1 • A project for the re-settlement of the Ba- 
hama Islands having been submitted to Mr Addison, (then 
secretary of state) in 1717, the measure was determined 
QD, and Rogers was appointed to head the ezpedltioa.' 
He died governor of thoie islands^ in 1739. 



zxU BIOGRAPHICAL MElfOIR 

bit bint iTOm that» or from any oAer similar story, 
of which many were then current In order to en- 
able our readers to judge how Teiy little De Foe has 
been assisted by Selkirk's narrative^ we have ex- 
tracted the whole from Woodes Rogers' Voyage. 

2%e RemarkaMe IKstory ^ Albxandbr Selkirk. 



** Oa February Ist, 1709, we came before the iiland of 
Juan Fernandez, having had a good observation the day 
before, aad foand our latitude to be S4 degrees 10 minutes 
south* In the afternoon, we hoisted out our pinnace} 
and Captain Dover, with the boat's crew, went in her to 
go ashore, though we could not be less than four leagues 
oif. Am soon as the pinnace was gone, I went on board 
the Duchess, who admired our boat attempting going ashore 
at that dutance from land. It was against my inclination : 
but, to oblige Captain Dover, I let her go. As soon as it 
was dark, we saw a light ashore. Our boat was then 
about a league off the island, and bore away for the ships 
as soon as she saw the lights. We put our lights aboard* 
for the boat* though some were of opinion, the lights we 
saw were our boat's lights ; but, as night came on, it ap- 
peared too large for that. We fired our quarter-deck gun, 
and several muskets, showing lights in our mizen and fore- 
shrouds, that our boat might find us whilst we were in the 
Ice of the island : About two in the morning our boat came 
op board, having been two hours on board the Duchess, 



OF DANIEL DE FOE. 9fii 

tbal iock them ap astern of u ; we were glad they got well 
<4tf became it began to blow. We were all convinced the 
ligbt was on the shore, and designed to make onr ships 
ready to engage, belieying them- to be French ships at an- 
chor, and we nrast either light them, or want water. All 
this stir and apprehension arose, as we afterwards fbnnd, 
fnm one poor naked man, who passed in onr lmaginatiott» 
at present, for a Spanish garrison, a body of Frenchmen, 
or a crew of pirates. While we were under these appre- 
hensions, we stood on the backside of the island, in order 
to fall in with the sontlierly wind, till we wCre past the 
Island ; and then we came back to it again, and ran close 
aboard the land that begins to make the north'-east side. 

We still continued to reason upon this matter ; and it is 
in a manner incredible, what strange notions many of our 
people entertained from the sight of the fire upon the 
Island. It served, however, to show people^s tempers and 
spirits ; and we were able to give a tolerable guess how 
our men would behave, in case there really were any 
enemies upon the island. The flaws came heary oiT the 
shore, and we were forced to reef our topsails when we 
opened the middle bay, where we expected to have found 
our enemy ; but saw all clear, and no ships, nor in the 
other bay next the north-east end. These two bays are all 
that ships ride in, which recruit on this island ; but the 
middle bay is by much the best. We guessed there had 
been ships there, but that they were gone on sight of us. 
We sent our yawl ashore about noon, with Captain Dover, 
Mr Fry, and six men, all armed : Mean while we and the 
Duchess kept turning to get in, and such heavy flaws came 
off the land, tliat we were fbrced to let go our top-sail 
sheet, keeping all hands to stand by our sails, for fear of 



zzlv BIOGRAflBICAL MBlfOiR 

ike wipds cairyiof tbem away : Bst when the flaws wece 
gone, we had little or ne wind. TheM flawi proceeded 
from the land, which it very high In the middle of the 
Island. Our boat did not return; we sent onr pinnace 
with the men armed, to tee what ww the occasion of the 
yawl's stay ; for we wero afraid, that the Spaniards had 
a garrison there, and might have seiied them. We pat 
oat a signal for oar boat, and the Dncliess showed a French 
ensign. Immediately our pinnace returned from the shoro, 
and brought abondance of cray-fish, with a man clothed in 
goats skins, who looked wilder than the first owners of 
thenu He had been on the island four years and foor 

. months, being left there by Captain Stradling In the Cinque- 
ports I his name was ALBZAHDBa Sblkibk, a Scotchman, 
who had been master of the Cinque-ports, a ship that came 
here last with Captain Dampier, who told me, that this 
was the best man in her. I immediately agreed with him 
to be a mate on board our ship : It was he that made the • 
fire last night when he saw our ships, which he judged to 
be English. During his stay here he saw several ships pass 
by, but only two came to anchor. As he went to view 

. them, he found them to be Spaniards, and retired from 
them, upon which they shot at him : Had they been 
French, he would have submitted ; but chose to risque his 
dying alone on the island, rather than fall into the hands 
of Spaniards in these parts ; because he apprehended they 
would murder him, or make a slave of him in the mines ; 
for he feared they would spare no stranger, that might be 
capable of discovering the South Seas. 

The Spaniards had landed, before he knew what they 
were ; and they came so near him, that he had much ado 
to escape; for they not only shot at hyn, but pursued 



OF DAXIEt DE FOE. zzt 

Mm to the woods, where he climhed to the top of a 
tree, at the foot of which they made water, and kill* 
ed several goats just by, bat went off again without dis* 
covering him. He told as that he was bom in Scotland^ 
and was Inred a sailor from his youth. The reason of his 
beii^ left here, was a difference between him and his 
captain; which, together with the ship^s being leaky, 
made > him willing rather to stay here, than go along 
with him at first $ but when he was at last willing to go, 
the captain woald not receive him. He had been at the 
island before, to wood and water, when two of the ship's 
company were left upon it for six months, till the ship re- 
turned, being chased thence by two French South Sea 
ships. He had with him his clothes and bedding, with a 
firelock, some powder, bullets, and tobacco, a hatchet, a 
knife, a kettle, a Bible, some practical pieces, and his 
mathematical instruments and books. He diverted and 
provided for himself as well as he could i but for the first 
eight months, had much ado to l>ear up against melancho- 
ly, and the terror of being left alone in such a desolate 
place. He built two huts with pimento trees, covered 
them with long grass, and lined them with the skins of 
goats, which he killed with his gun as he wanted, so long 
as his powder lasted, which was but a pound ; and that be* 
iflg iilmost sp^nt, he got fire by rubbing two sticks of pi* 
mento wood togetlier uppn his knee. In the lesser hut, at 
some distance from the other, he dressed his victuals ; and 
in the larger he slept, and employed himself in reading, 
singing psalms, and praying ; so that he said, he was a bet? 
ter Christian, while In this solitude, than ever he was be* 
fore, or than, he w^s afraid, he should ever be again* 



jm% BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR 

At fiffst he never ate aay thiag till banger 
fciiDy partly for grief, and partly for want of bread and 
•aM I Nor did he go to bed, till he could watch no longer f 
the pimento wood, which bomt very clear, MfYed bin 
both for fire and candle, and refireshed him with its fra- 
grant smell. He might have had fish enough, but would 
not eat them for want of nit, beeause they occasioned a 
looseness, except cny-flsh, which are as large as onr lob» 
sters^ and very good : These he sometimes boiled, and at 
other times broiled, as he did his goats flesh, of which he 
made very good broth, for they are not so rank as oon. 
He kept an account of 500 that he killed while there, and 
caught as many more, which he marked on the ear, and 
let gow When his powder foiled, be took them by speed 
of feet) for his way of living, continual exercise of walk* 
ing and running, cleared him of all gross humours; so that 
he ran with wonderfol swiftness through the woo^ and 
up the rocks and hills, as we perceived when we employed 
him to catch goats for us : We had a bull dog, which we 
sent with several of our nimblest runners, to help him in 
catching goats ; but he distanced and tired both tb« dog 
and the men, caught the goats, and brought them to us On 
his back. 

He told us, that his dgility in pursuing a goat had once 
like to liave cost hiib his life ; he pursued it with so much 
eagerness, that he catched hold of it *bn the brink of a 
precipice, of which he was not aware, the bushes hiding 
it from him ; so tint he fell with the goat down the preci- 
pice, a great height, and was so stunned and braised*with 
the foil, that he narrowly escaped with his life ; and, when 
be came to his senses, fDund the goat dead under him : He 
lay there about twenty-four hours, and was scarce able to 



OF DANIEL DE FOE. zxrlt 

crawl to liis hat, whicb was aboat a mile distant, or to stir 
abroad again in ten days. 

He came at last to relisb bis meat well enough without 
salt or bread; and, in the season, bad plenty of good tur- 
flips, which bad been sowed there by Captain Dampier's 
men, and have now overspread some acres of groond. He 
bad enough of good cabbage from the cabbage-trees, and 
seasoned -his meat with the fruit of the pimento-trees, 
which is 1^ same as Jamaica pepper, and smells delicious- 
ly. He found also a blacic pepper, called JMalageta, which 
was rery good to expel wind, and against griping in the 
gttts. 

He soon wore out all his shoes and clothes by running In 
the woods ; and, at last, being forced to shift without them, 
his feet became so hard, tliat he ran every-wbere without 
difficulty ; and it was some time before he could wear shoes 
after we fonnd him ; for, not beii^; used to any so long, his 
feet swelled, when he came irst to wear them again. 

After be had conquered his melancholy, he diverted him- 
sdf sometimes with cutting his name on the trees, and the 
time of his being left, and continuance there. He was at 
first much pestered with cats and rats, that bred in great 
numbers, from some of each species which had got ashore 
from ships that put in there to woOd and water. The rats 
gnawed his feet and clothes whilst asleep, which obliged 
him to cherish the cats with his goats flesh, by which many 
of them became so tame, that they would lie about him in 
hundreds, and soon delivered him from the rats. He like- 
wise tamed some Itids ; and, to divert himself, would, now 
and then, sing and dance with them, and his cats: So 
that, by the favour of Providence, and vigour of his youth, 
being now but thirty years old, he came, at last, to con- 



UTiU BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR 

quer all the incoDveniencies of his solitode, and to be very 
easy. 

When his clothes were worn ont^ be made himself a coat 
and a cap of gpat-skins, which he stitched together witb 
little thongs of the same, that he cut with his knife. He 
bad no other needle but a nail ; and when his knife was 
worn to the back, be made others, as well as he coald, of 
some iron hoops that were left ashore, which he beat thin, 
and ground upon stones^ Having some linen-cloth by bim, 
be "sewed him some shirts with a nail, and stitched them 
with the worsted of his old stockings, which he pulled out 
on purpose. He liad bis last shirt on, when we found bim 
in the island. 

At his first copniog on board ns, he bad so much forgot 
bu language, for want of use, that we could scarce under- ' 
stand him ; for be seemed to speak his words by halves. 
We offered him a dram ; but he would not touch It, having 
drank nothing but water since bis being there : and it was 
some time before be could relish our victuals. He could 
give us an accoimt of no other product of the island than 
what we have mentioned, except some black pJnms, whicb 
are very good, but bard to come at$ the trees which bear 
them growing on bigh mountains and rocks. Pimento trees 
are plenty here; and we saw some of sixty feet high, and 
about two yards thick $ and cotton trees higher, and near 
four fathoms round in the stock. The cliioate Is so good, 
that the trees and grass are verdant all the year round. The 
winter lasts no longer than June and July, and is not then 
severe, there being only a small frost, and a little hail j but 
spmetimes great rains. Xbe heat of the summer is equally 
moderate; and there is not much thuqder, or tempestuous 
weather of any sort. He oaw no yepomoys or savage cre«^ 



OP DAJ^IEt DE fO^ xtfac 

Ivre on the island ; nor any sort of beasts but goats, the fiitt 
of which had been pot ashpre here, On purpose for a breed, 
by Joan Fernandez, a. Spaniard, who settled there with 
some families, till the continent of Chili bq;an to sabmit to 
the Spaniards ; which, being more profitable, tempted then 
to quit this island, capable, however, of maintaining a good 
number of people, and being made so strong, that they coold 
not be easily dislodged from thence. 

We are indebted for ike following additional 
particulars, respecting the life and fate of this 
singular character, to the research of A. Gibson 
Hunter, Esq. of Balskelly, in Scotland ; who, we 
believe, is yet in possession of his will, and some 
Dther curious relicks. Through this gentleman 
we learn, that Selkirk was bom at Largo in 
Fife, in the year 1676, where be possessed some 
trifling landed property. He went mate with 
Captain Slradling, in the Cinque Ports, on a tra- 
ding voyage round the world, in 1704. In the 
course of which, a difference arising betwixt hhn 
and his captain, the causes of which must now 
remain for ever unexplained, Selkiric, with all 
the hardihood of the seaman's character, desi- 
red to be landed on the island of Fernandez. 
Here he semained iu perfect solitude, existing aft 



^zz BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR* 

he has described himself, iinlil discoyered by Ca|^ 
tain Rogers. Selkirk died on board a king's ship, 
the Weymouth, of which he was mate, in 1728; 
leaving his efiects, by will, to sundry '' loving fe- 
male friendly'' with whom he had contracted inti- 
macies in the course of his peregrinations. His 
chest, his gun, and his drinking cup, the last 
made of a cocoa nut shell, are, or were till lately, 
the property of his descendants at Largo. 



The sale of Robinson Cnisoe was, as we have 
already stated, rapid and extensive, and De Foe^s 
profits were commensurate. The work was at- 
tacked on all sides by his ancient opponents, whose 
labours have long since quietly descended with 
their authors to merited oblivion; but our author, 
having the public on his side, set them all at de- 
fiance; and the same year, he published a second 
volume with equal success. Thus far 

"*' With steady bark and flowing sail 
"** He ran before the wind," 



^ OF DAKIEL DB FOE. i;z«l 

bat, incited by the hope of iiurther profit^ and con- 
ceiying the theme of Crusoe inexhaustible, he short- 
ly, after published Seriinis Re/kctiont during thelafc 
of Robmaon Crusoe, vfiih his Visum qf the Aagelie 
World. These Visions and Reflections were well 
received at the time, although by no means so 
much in requisition now,. 

With the return of his good fortune, our authoi^s 
health was re-established, and -the vigour of his 
mind restored. He published, in 1720, ^The Life 
md Piracies qf Captain Singkton; and finding it 
safer, it would seeiq, as well as more profitable^ 
to amuse the public, than to reform them, he con* 
tiaoed this course, with little yariatiou, for the re* 
mainder of his life. 

His subsequent publications, to all of which a 
considerable degree of popularity was attached^ 
though, none of them equalled the reputation of 
Robinson Crusoe, were the Dumb Philosopher, His-' 
tory of Duncan Campbell, Remarkable I4fe of Co* 
lonel Jack, Fortunate Mistress, and New Voyage 
round the World, 

We are now to take leave of our author, who 
<|ied in 1731, at the age of 68, in Cripplegate, 



Jkxtii BIOGRAFIflCAL M£MOtR &c 

London, leaving a widow and large family in fo>- 
lerable circumstances. 

It does not fall within our plan either to attempt 
« critical analysis of Robinson Crusoe, or a detail- 
ed yiew of the character of Daniel De Foe ; the 
one is before our readers^ and the other may be 
estimated from his life. That De Foe was a man 
of powerful intellect and lively imagination, is ob« 
vious from his works; that he was possessed of an 
ardent temper, a resolute courage, and an un<^ 
wearied spirit of enterprize, is ascertamed by the 
events of his changeful career : and whatever may 
be thought of that rashness and improvidence by 
which his progress in life was so firequently imped- 
ed, there seems no reason to withhold from him 
the praise of integrity, sincerity, and unvaried con- 
sistency. As the author of Robinson Crusoe, his 
fame promises to endure as long as the language 
in which he wrote. 



THE 

UPE AND ADVENTURES 

OP 

ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



SS3 



CHAP. I. 



My Birth and ParenU^e-^At nineteen years of 4gge 
I determine to go to See^-^Dissuaded by titf Pa^ 
tenta-^Elopewiihaschool^fldlowyandgo onboard 
Ship-i^A Storm ariseSp during tMch Lam dreads 
fidfyfrightened-^Ship founders — Myseffand Crew 
saved by a Boat from another Vessel, and landed 

. near Yamunah^—Mbet my Cknnpamkfn's Pother 
there, ivho advises me never to go to Sea more, but 
all in vain. 

I WAS born' in the year 1632, in the citjr of York, 
of a good family, though not of that country, my 
father being a foreigner of Brenien> who settled 
first at Hall : He got a good estieite -by merchan- 

VOL. I, A 



S THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

dize, and, leaving ofF his trade, lived afterwards at 
York, from whence he had married my mother, 
whose relations were named Robinson, a very good 
family in that country, and from whom I was call- 
ed Robinson Kreutznaer; but, by the usual corrup- 
tion of words in England, we are now called, nay, 
we call ourselves, and write our name, Crusoe; 
and so my companions always called me. 

I had two elder brothers, one of which was a 
lieutenant-colonel to an English regiment of foot 
in Flanders, formerly commanded by the famous 
Colonel Lockhart, and was killed at the battle near 
Dunkirk against the Spaniards : what became of 
my second brother, I never knew, any more than 
my father or mother did know what was become 
of me. 

Being the third son of the family, and not bred 
to any trade, my head began to be filled very 
early with rambling thoughts : my father, who was 
very ancient, had given me a competent share of 
learning, as far as house education, and a country 
free-school generally goes, and designed me for the 
law ; but I would be satisfied with nothing but go- 
ing to sea ; and my inclination to this led me so 
strongly against the will, nay, the commands^ of 
my father, and against all the entreaties and per- 
'suasions of ipy mother and other friends, that there 
seemed to be something fatal in that propension of 

10 



OP ROBTNSON CRUSOEU t 

Mature^ tending directly to the life of misery ^hich 
was to befal me. 

My father^ a wise and grave man, gave me se« 
rious and excellent counsel against what he fore^ 
saw was my design. He called me one morning 
into his, chamber^ where he was confined by the 
gout, and expostulated very warmly with me upon 
this subject : He asked me what reasons, more than 
a mere wandering inclination, I had for leaving 
my father's house and my native country, where 
I might be well introduced, and had a prospect of 
raising my fortune by application and industry, 
with a life of ease and pleasure : He told me, it 
was men of desperate fortunes on one hand, or of 
aspiring superior fortunes on the other, and who 
went abroad upon adventures, to rise by enter- 
prize, and make themselves famous in underta- 
kings of a nature out of the common road ; that 
•these things were all either too far above me^ or 
too far below me ; that mine was the middle state, 
or what might be called the uppcfr station of low 
life, which he had found, by long experience, was 
the best state in the world; the most suited to hu^- 
man happiness, not exposed to the miseries and 
hardships, the labour and sufferings of the mecha-^ 
nic part of mankind, and not embarrassed with 
the pridci luxury, ambition, and envy of the up 



4 TUB UFB AND ADTENTURBS 

per part of mankind. Ht told wb, I inight judge 
of the happiness of this state, by this one things 
¥42. That this was the state of life ^vvhich all other 
people envied ; that kings haye freqnently lament- 
ed the miserable consequences of being bom to 
great things, and wished thiey bad been placed in 
the middle of the two extremes, between :the mean 
ajQid the great; that the wise man. gave his testi- 
mony to Uii^ as the just standard of true felicity» 
when ha prayed to have neither' poverty nor 
riches. 

He bade me observe it, and Ishonld always find, 
th^ the calamities of life^were shaied among the 
upper and lower part of mankind;. bat. that the 
Hftiddle station bad the fewest disasters,- and wias.not 
expostsd to so many vicissitiidca as the higher or 
lower part of mankind ; nay, they were not sub- 
jected to so many distemfiers and uneasiness, ei- 
ther of body or mind, as Xhdae were^ who, by vi- 
cious living, luxury, and extravagancies^ oa one 
hand, or by. hard labour, want of necessaries^ and 
mean or insufficient diet, ba the other hand,, bring 
distempers u[>on themselves by the nalurdl- conse- 
quences of their way of Hving; that the mkktie 
station of. life .was calculated for aU 'kind of viiv 
tues, and ail kind of enjoyments; that peace and 
plenty were the handmakb oi a middle 'fortune; 
that temperance, moderation, quietness^ healtt]^ so- 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. . ft 

ci^y»i#agreeablediTeisi6iiB«and9lLdetind)Ie':pIea« 
iutts, weie the blessings attending the middle 8ta4 
tion of life ; that.th<s way men went silentljr and 
smoothly through the world, and comfortably out 
ofiita notembaFrassed with the labonre of the 
hands, or of the head ; not sold to a. life of slavery 
for daily bfead> ^or harassed with perplexed eiiw 
comstances^ which rob the soul of <peace, and the 
body.' of rest; not enraged with the passion of «n«' 
vy, or. the secret burning lust of ambition for great 
things; but in easycircumstiEinces, sliding gently 
through the world, .and sensibly tasting the sweets 
of living without the . bif ter ; feeling that they are 
happy, and learning 'by every day's' experience to 
know it more sensibly. 

Afier this he pressed me earnestly, and in tlm 
most affectionate manner, not to play the young 
man, -or to precipitate myself into miseries, utrhich 
natore, and 'the station of life I was born i^, seem^ 
ed to have provided against; that I was under no 
necessity of seeking my bread ; that he would do 
well for me, and eudeavoor to enter me fairly iat(» 
the station of life which he had been jost recom- 
mending to me ; and that if I was not very easy 
and happy in the world, h mast be my mere fate, 
o£ fesdt that mast hinder it ; and that he should 
have nothing to answer for, having thus dischar* 
ged his duty in warning me against measures 




^ discoune, u 
I ad I reaolved 
ire, but to set- 
s desire. But, 
nd, in Hhort, to 
:' importuuitiet, 
I'un quite away 
so hastily neU 
itioB prompted, 
-vhen I thought 
; and told her, 
bent upon see- 
.;r settle to any 



6 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

which he knew would be to my hurt : In a word, 
that as he would do very kind things for me, if I 
would stay and settle at home, as he directed ; so 
he would not have so much hand in my misfor* 
tunes, as to give me any encouragement to go 
away: and to close all, he told me, I had my elder 
brother for an example, to whom he had used the 
same earnest persuasions to keep him from going 
into the Low Country wars, but could not prevail, 
his young desires prompting him to run into the 
army, where he was killed ; and though he said he 
would not cease to pray for me, yet he would ven>* 
ture to say to me, that if I did take this foolish 
step, God would not bless me ; and I would have 
leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected 
his counsel, when there might be none to assist in 
my recovery. 

I observed in this last part of his discourse, which 
was truly prophetic, though I suppose my father 
did not know it to be so himself; I say, I obser-* 
ved the tears run down his face very plentifully, es- 
pecially when he spoke of my brother who was 
killed ; and that when he spoke of my having lei- 
sure to repent, and none to assist me, he was so 
moved, that he broke off the discourse, and told 
me, his heart was so full, he could say no more to 
Ifae, 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. 7 

I was sincerely afflicted with this discoarsej as 
indeed who could be otherwise? and I resolved 
not to think of going abroad any more, but to set- 
tle at home according to my father's desire. But> 
alas ! a few days wore it all off; and, in short, to 
prevent any of my father's farther importunities, 
in a few weeks after, I resolved to run quite away 
from him. However, I did not act so hastily nei- 
ther, as the first heat of my resolution prompted* 
but I took my mother at a time when I thought 
her a little pleasanter than ordinary ; and told her. 
That my thoughts were so entirely bent upon see- 
ing the world, that I should never settle to any 
thing with resolution enough to go through with it; 
and my father had better give me his consent, than 
force me to go without it ; that I was now eighteen 
years old, which was too late to go apprentice to 
a trade, or clerk to an attorney ; that I was sure, 
if I did, I should never serve out my time, but I 
should certainly run away from my master before 
my time was out, and go to sea ; and if she would 
speak to my father to let me go one voyage abroad, 
if I came home again, and did not like it, I would 
go no more, and I would promise, by a double dili- 
gence, to recover the time I had lost 

This put my mother into a great passion : she 
told me, she knew it would be to no purpose to 
speak to my father upon any such subject that 



8 THE UjF*E AND ADYENmEES 

he knew too well what wa^ my iaterest, to give his 
confent to any such thing so much for my hurt; 
and that she wondered how I could think of any 
sych things aft^r the discourse I ,had had with my 
fatherland such kind and tender expression^ as she 
ki>ew my father had used to me; and that, in shorty 
if I would ruin myself there was no help for me; 
but I might depend I should iiever have their coi|« 
sent to it : tha(^ for her part» she would not have 
90 much hand in my destruction ; and I. should 
never have jt to say, that my mother was willing^ 
when .my lather was not. . 

:«rhough my mother refused to. move it to my 
^ther, yet I heard afterwards, that she repoiled 
all itbe discourse to him; and that piy /atber» after 
shewing a great concern at it, s^id to her, with a 
sigh, ** Thftt boy might be happy, if he would stay 
at home; but if he goes abroad, he will he the 
most miserable wretch that. ever was bom; I can 
givH no consent to it'' 

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke 
loose, though in the mean time I continued ob- 
stinately deaf to all proposals of settling to busi- 
ness, and frequently expostulating with my father 
and mother, about their beiqg so positively deter- 
mined against what they knew my inclinations 
prompted me to. But being one day at HulU 
whither I went casually^ and without any puiposo 



I 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. # 

•f 0iaking an elopement that time ; but, I say, be* 
iog there, and one of my companions being go« 
mf by sea to I^ondon, in his father^s ship, and 
prompting me to go with them, with the oommon 
allurement of a seafaring man« that it should ^osl 
me nothing for my passage, I consulted neither 
father or mother any more, nor so much as sent 
them word of it; bat leaving them to hear of i^ 
as they might, without asking God's blessing, or 
my father's, without any consideration of circnm* 
stances or consequences, and in an ill faour^ God 
knows, on the 1st of September, 1651, I went om 
board a ship bound for London. Never any young 
adventurer's misfortunes, I believe, began sooner^ 
or continued longer, than mine : the ship was no 
sooner got out of the Humber, but. the wind begaa 
to blow, and the sea to rise in a most frightful 
manner; and as I had never been at sea befer^ I 
was most inexpressibly sick in body, and terrified, 
in mind. I began now seriously to reflect upon 
what I had done, iand how justly I was overtaken 
by the judgment of heaven for my wicked leaving 
my fether's house, and abandoning my duty; aU 
the good counsel of my parents, my £aither's tean 
' and my mother's intreaties, came now fresh into 
my mind ; and my conscience, which was not yet 
come to the pitch of hardness to which it has been 
8ince> reproached me with the contempt of ad* 



10 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

vice, and the breach of my duty to God and my 
faither. 

All this while the storm increased, and the sea 
went very high, though nothing like what I have 
seen many times since; no, nor what I saw a few 
days after : but it was enough to afiect me then, 
who was but a young sailor, and had never known 
any thing of the matter. 1 expected every wave 
would have swallowed us up, and that every time 
the ship fell down, as I thought it did, in the 
trough or hollow of the sea, we should never rise 
more. In this agony of mind, I made many vows 
and resolutions, that if it would please God to spare 
my life in this one voyage, if ever I got once my foot 
upon dry land again, I would go directly home to 
my father, and never set it into a ship again while 
1 lived ; that I would take his advice, and never 
run myself into such miseries as these any more. 
Now I saw plainly the goodness of his observations 
about the middle station of life, how easy, how 
comfortable he had lived all his days, and never 
had been exposed to tempests at sea, or trouble 
on shore ; and, in short, I resolved, that I would, 
like a true repenting prodigal, go home to my £u 
then 

These wise and sober thoughts continued all the 
while the storm continued, and indeed some time 
after; but the next day the wind was abated, and 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 11 

the sea calmer, and I began to be a little inured 
to it However, I was very grave for all that day« 
being also a little sea-sick still ; but towards night 
the weather cleared up, the wind was quite over, 
and a charming fine evening followed; the sun 
went down perfectly clear, and rose so the next 
morning; and having little or no wind, and a 
smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the sight 
was, as I thought, the most delightful that ever I 
saw. 

• I had slept well in the night, and was now no 
more sea-sick, but very cheerful; looking with 
wonder upon the sea, that was so rough and terri- 
ble the day before, and could be so calm and so 
pleasant in so little a time after : and now, lest 
my good resolutions should continue, my compa- 
nion, who had indeed enticed me awa}^ comes to 
me, " Well, Bob," says he, clapping me Upon the 
shoulder, " how do you do afler it ? I warrant you 
were frighted, wer'n't you, last night, when it blew 
but a capful of wind?" " A capful d'ye call it ?" 
said I, " 'twas a terrible storm." "A storm, you 
fool you !" replies he, " do you call that a storm ? 
why it was npthing at all ; give us but a good ship, 
and sea-room, and we think nothing of such a 
squall of wind as that ; but you're but a fresh-wa- 
ter sailor. Bob; come, let us make a bowl of punch, 
and we'll forget all that; d'ye see what charming 



lit TH£ LIFE AND APYSKTUHES 

weather 'tis jaowV* To make ^hort this sad 
part of my story^ we went the way of all sailors; 
the punch was made^ and I was made half drunk 
with it, and in that one night's wickedness I 
drowned all my repentance, all my reflections 
upon my past conduct; all my resolutions for the 
future. In a word, as the sea was returned to 
its smoothness of surface, and settled calmness, 
\}y the abatement of that storm, so, the hurry of 
my thoughts being oyer, my fears and appre- 
hensions of being swallowed up by the sea be- 
ing forgotten, and the current of my former de« 
sires returned, I entirely forgot the vows and pro* 
mises that I made in my distress.. I found indeed 
some intervals of reflection ; and the serious thoughts 
dii, as it were, endeavour to return again some-^ 
times ; but I shook them ofl^ and roused mysetf 
from them, as it were from a distemper; and ap- 
plying myself to drinking and company, soon Boiafr* 
lered the return of those fits (for so I called them) ; 
and I had, in five or six days, got a complete vie* 
tory over my conscience, as any young fellow that 
resolved not to be troubled with It, could desire. 
But I was to have another . trial for it still ; and 
Providence, as in such cases generally it does, re* 
solved to leave me entirely without excuse : for if 
I would not take this for a deliverance, the next 
was to be such an one, as the worst and most hard- 



. OK ROBINSON CRUSOB. It 

•ned wretch among us would confess both the dm* 
4ger. and the mercy. 

The sixth day of our bemg at sea, we came in* 
to Yarmouth roads;' i!be wind haying been d6n- 
traryj; and the weather calm, we had made but lit* 
tie wa^ since the Btorm* Here we were obliged to 
€(MBe to an anchor, and here we lay, the wind con* 
tinning contrary, viz. at south-west, for seven or 
eight days ; during which time, a great ikiany 
shipii from Newcastle came into the same roads, as 
the common harbour where the ships might wait 
for a wind for the rirer. 

We had not^ however, rid here so long, but we 
should have tided it up the river, but that the wind 
blew too fresh ; and, after we had lain four or five 
days, blew very hard. However, the roads being 
redconed as good as an harbour, the anchorage 
good, and our ground-tackle very strong, our mea 
were unconcerned, and not in the least apprehen* 
sive of danger ; but spent the time in rest and 
inirtb, after the manner of the sea : but the eighth 
day in the morning, the wind increased, and we 
had all hands at work to strike our top-masts, and 
make every thing snug and close, that the ship 
might ride as easy as possible. By noon, the sen 
went very high indeed, and our ship rid forecastle 
in, shipped several seas, and we thought once or 
iwice our anchor had come home; uponwhichy 



/ 



14 THE LIFE AND ADYENTURES 

our master ordered out the sheet anchor ; so that 
we rode with two anchors ahead> and the cables 
Teered out to the better end. 

By this time, it blew a terrible storm indeed ; 
and now, I began to see terror and amazement in 
the faces even of the seamen themselves. The 
master, though vigilant in the business of preser- 
ving the ship, yet as he went in and out of his ca* 
bin by me, I could hear him, softly, to himself, 
say several times ; " Lord foe merciful to us ! we 
shall be all lost, we shall be all undone;'' and the 
like. During these first hurries, 1 was stupid, ly-t> 
ing still in my cabin, which was in the steerage, 
and cannot describe my temper. I could ill re- 
sume the first penitence which I had so apparently 
trampled upon, and hardened myself against: I 
thought the bitterness of death had been past; and 
that this would be nothing too, like the first. But 
when the master himself came by me, as I said 
just now, and said we should be all lost, I was 
dreadfully frigbited : I got up out of my cabin, an4 
looked out ; but such a dismal sight I never saw : 
the sea went mountains high, and broke uppn us 
every three or four minutes : when I could look 
about, I could see nothing but distress round us. 
Two ships that rid near us, we found, had cut their 
masts by the board, being deep loaden; and our 
men cried out, that a ship, which rid. about a inibs 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* IS' 

ahead of us, was fouiidered. Two more ships, be- 
iflcc driven from their anchors, were run out of the 
roads to sea, at all adventures, and that with not 
a mast standing. The light ships fared the best» 
as not so much labouring in the sea; but two or 
three of them drove, audi came close by us, run^ 
ning away with only their sprit-sail out, before the 
wind. 

Towards the evening, the mate and boatswain 
begged the master of our ship to let them cut away 
the foremast, which he was very unwilling to do*: 
.but the boatswain protesting to him, that if he did 
not, the ship would founder, he consented ; and 
when they had cut away the fore-mast, the main- 
mast stood so loose, and shook the ship so much, 
they were obliged to cut her away also, and make 
a clear deck. 

Any one must judge what a condition I must be 
in at all this, who was but a young sailor, and 
who had been in such a fright before at but a little. 
But if I can express at this distance the thoughts I 
had about me at that time, I was in tenfold more 
horror of mind upon account of my former convic- 
tions, and the having returned from them to the 
resolutions I had wickedly taken at first, than I was 
at death itself; and these, added to the terror of 
the storm, put me into such a condition, that I 
i;an by no words describe it But the worst was 



M tBE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

not come yet; the storm cootinued with such fary; 
^batithe seamea themselves acknowledged they 
had never seen a worse,. We had a ^ood ship, but 
she was deeploaden^ and wallowed in the sea, that 
the seamen erery now «nd then cried out, «he 
^Nwald' founder. It; was my advantage in one re- 
specty that I did. not know wfastt they pieant by 
founder, till I enquired. However, the storm was 
8Q violent, that I saw what is not often seen, the 
master, the boatswain, and some others more sen- 
ftble than the rest, atthdr prayers, and expecting 
fsf^y moment when^the ship would go to the bot- 
tom. : In the middle of the night, and ander all the 
lest of our distresses, one of the- men that had been 
down OB purpose to se^ cried out we had spruAg 
a leak; another said, there was four feet water in 
the hold. Then all hands were called to the pump. 
At that very word, my heart, as I thoughts died 
within me ; and I fell backwards upon the- side of 
my bed where I sat, into the cabin. However, the 
men roused me, and told me, tha^ I that wad able 
t6 do nothtng^^ before^ was as well able* to pump as 
another; at whidi I stirred up, and went to the 
fiump, and worked very heartily. While this was 
doings the master seeing some light colliers, who, 
tiot able to ride out the storm, were obliged tonsil p 
and run away to the sea, and would come near tis, 
ordered to fire a gun as a signal of dit^tr^ss. l^ 

8 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. 17 

who knew nothing what that meant, was 8o sur- 
prised, that I thought the ship had broke, or some 
dreadful thing happened. In a word, I was so sur- 
prised, that I fell down in a swoon. As this was 
a time when every body had his own life to think 
of, nobody minded me, or what was become of 
me ; but another man stept up to the pump, and, 
thrusting me aside with his foot, let me lie, think* 
ing I had been dead ; and it was a great while be- 
fore I came to myself. 

We worked on, but the water increasing in the 
hold, it was apparent, that the ship would founder; 
end though the storm began to abate a little, 3ret 
as it was not possible she could swim till we might 
run into a port, so the master continued firing 
guns for help-; and a light ship, who h^ rid it out 
just a-head of us, ventured a boat out to help us. 
It was with the utmost hazard the boat came near 
us ; but it was impossible for us to get on board, 
or for the boat to lie near the ship-side, till at last, 
the men rowing very heartily, and venturing their 
lives to save ours, our men cast them a rope over 
the stern with a buoy to it, and then veered it out 
a great length, which they, after much labour and 
hazard, took hold of, and we hauled then! close 
under our stern, and got all into their boat. It 
was to no purpose for them or us, after we were 
^n the boat, to think of reaching to their own ship; 

VOL. I. B 



1» THE LIF£ AND ADVENTURES 

SO all agreed to let her drive^ and only to pull her 
in towards shore as much as we could ; and our 
master promised them, that if the boat was staved 
upon shore, he would make it good to their mas- 
ter : so partly rowing, and partly driving, our boat 
went away to the northward, sloping towards the 
shore, almost as far as Winterton-Ness. 

We were not much more than a quarter of an 
hour out of our ship, but we saw her sink : and 
then I understood for the first time, what was 
meant by a ship foundering in the sea. I must 
acknowledge I had hardly eyes to look up, when 
the seamen told me she was sinking; for, from 
that moment they rather put me into the boat, than 
that I might be said to go in, my heart was, as it 
were, dead within me, partly with fright, partly 
with horror of mind, and the thoughts of what was 
yet before me. 

While we were in thb condition, the men yet 
labouring at the oar to bring the boat near the 
shore, we could see, (when our boat mounting the 
waves we were able to see the shore,) a great 
many people running along the shore to assist us 
when we should come near; but we made but slow 
way towards the shore, nor were we able to reach 
the shore, till being past the light-house at Win- 
terton, the shore falls off to the westward towards 
Cromer, and so the land broke oiF a little the vio- 
leiLce of the wind. Here we got in, and, though not 



GF ROBINSON CRUSOB. 1^ 

withoat much difficulty^ got all safe oq 8hcHre> and > 
walked afterwards on foot to Yarmouth, where, as^ 
unfortunate men, we were used with great huma* 
nity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who 
assigned us good quarters, as by particular mer- 
chants and owners of ships, and had money giToa 
us sufficient to carry us either to London, or back 
to Hull, as we thought fit. 

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to 
Hull, and have gone home, I had been happy, and 
my father, an emblem of our blessed Saviour's 
parable, had even killed the iatted calf for me ; 
for, hearing the ship I went away in was cast away 
in Yarmouth Road, it was a great while before he 
had any assurance that I was not drowned. 

But my ill fate pushed me on now with an ob* 
stinacythat nothing could resist; and, though I 
had several times loud calls from my reason and' 
my more composed judgment to go home, yet I 
had no power to do it. I know not what to call 
Uiis, nor will I urge, that it is a secret overruling 
decree that hurries us on to be the instruments of 
our own destruction, even though it be before u^ 
and that we push upon it with our eyes open. Cer« 
tainly, nothing but some such decreed unavoidable 
misery attending, and which it was impossible for 
me to escape, could have pushed me forward against 
the calm reasonings and persuasions of my most r«- 
10 



so THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

tired thoaghts* aod against two such visible ijustrao 
tions as I had met with in my first attempt 

My comrade, who had helped to harden me be- 
fore, and who was the master's son, was now less 
forward than I. The first time he i^oke to me af- 
ter we were at Yarmouth, which was not till two 
or three days, for wc were separated in the town to 
several quarters ; I say, the first time he saw me, it 
appeared his tone was altered ; and, looking very 
melancholy, and shaking his head, asked me how I 
did : And telling his father who I was, and how I 
had come this voyage only for a trial,, in order to 
go farther abroad ; his father, turning to me with 
a very grave and concerned tone, '' Young man/' 
says he,/' you ought never to go to sea any more; 
you ought to take this for a plain and visible to- 
ken, that you are not to be a seafaring man. 
*« Why, Sir,'' said I, *' will you go to sea no more ? 
'' That is another case," said he ; ** it is my calling, 
and therefore my duty ; but as you made this voy- 
age for a trial, you see what a taste heaven has 
given you, of what you are to expect, if you per- 
sist ; perhaps all this has befallen us on your ac- 
count, like Jonah in the ship of Tarshish. Pray,'' 
oontinues he, ** what are you ? and on what ac- 
account did you go to sea ?" Upon that I told him 
some of my story ; at the end of which he burst 
out with a strange kind of passion ; *^ What bad I 






OF ROBtNSOX CItUSOE. SI 

done/^ says he, ** that such an unhappy wretch 
should come into my ship? T would not set my 
foot in the same ship with thee again for a thou'* 
sand pounds." This indeed was, as I said, an ex- 
cursion of his spirits, which were yet agitated by 
the sense of his loss, and was farther than he could 
have authority to go. However, he afterwards 
talked very gravely to me, exhorted me to go back 
to my father, and not tempt Providence to my ruin ; 
told me, I might see a visible hand of heaven 
against me ; ** And, young man," said he, *' de- 
pend upon it, if you do not go back, wherever you 
go, you will meet with nothing but disasters and 
disappointments, till your father's words are fulfiU 
led upon you." 

We parted soon after ; for I made him little an- 
swer, and I saw him no more : which way he went, 
I kdow not. As for me, having some money in 
my pocket, I travelled to London by land ; and 
there, as well as on the road, had many struggles 
with myself, what course of life I should take, and 
whether I should go home> or go to sea. 

As to going home, shame opposed the best mo^ 
tions that offered to my thoughts; and it inmie-* 
diately occurred to me how I should be laughed at 
among the neighbours, and should be ashamed to 
see, not my father and mother only, but even every 
^ body else ; from whence I have since often obser- 



n TUB LIFE A<4D ADVENTURES 

Ted, how inc<»igruous and inatioaal Uie commoa 
temper of muikuid is, especially of youth, to that 
reason which onght to guide them in such casea, 
Tiz. that they are not ashamed to sin, and yet are 
ashamed to repent ; nor ashamed of the actkm for 
which tbey ought justly to be esteemed foob, but 
are ashamed of the returning, which only can make 
them be esteemed wise men. 

In this state of life, howeTer, I remained some 
time, nocettain what measures to take, and what 
course of life to lead. An irresistible reluctance 
continued to going home ; and as I stayed a while, 
the remembrance of the distress 1 bad been ia wore 
off; and as that abated, the little motion I had in 
my desires to a return wore off with it, till at last I 
quite liud aside the thoughts of it, and looked out 
for a voyage. 

That evil influence which carried me first away 
from my father's house, that hurried me into the 
wild and indigested notion of raising my fortune ; 
and that impressed those conceits so forcibly upon 
me, as to make me deaf to all good advice, and to 
and even the command of my fa- 
he same influence, whatever it was, 
nost unfortunate of all enteiprizes to 
1 1 went on board a vessel bound to 
fVica ; or, as our sailors vulgarly call 
I Guinea. 



Of ROBINSON CRUSOE. «3 

It was my great misfortane, that in all these ad- 
Ventures I did not ship myself as a sailor; where- 
by> though I might indeed hare worked a little 
harder than ordinary, yet, at the same time, I had 
learnt the duty and office of a foremastman ; and in 
time might have qualified myself for a mate or 
lieutenant, if not for a master. But as it was al- 
ways my fate to choose for the worse, so I did 
here ; for, having money in my pocket, and good 
clothes upon my back, I would always go on board 
in the habit of a gentleman ; and so I neither had 
aqy business in the ship, or learnt to do any. 



24 THJS LIF£ AND ADVENTURES 



CHAP, n. 

Make a trading Voyage to Guinea very succeasfiiHy^-^ 
Death of my Captaiih^^Sail another Trip with his 
Mate-^The Vengeance of Providence far JHsobC'^ 
dicTtce to Parents now overtakes me^-^Taken by a 
Sallee Rover, and all sold as Slaves — My Master 

^Jrequently sends me a-fishing, which suggests an 
Idea of Escape^^Make my Escape in an open 
Boat, wkh a Moresco Boy. 

It was my lot, first of all, to fall into pretty good 
company in London, which does not always happen 
to such loose and unguided young fellows as I then 
was ; the devil generally not omitting to lay some 
snare for them very early : but it was not so with 
me. I first fell acquainted with the master of a 
ship who had been on the coast of Guinea ; and 
who having had very good success there, was re- 
solved to go again ; and who taking a fancy to my 
conversation, which was not at all disagreeable at 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. tS 

that time, hearing me say I had a mind to see the 
world, told me, if I would go the voyage with hint 
I should be at*no expense ; I should be his mess- 
mate and his companion ; and if I could carry any 
thing with me, I should have all the advantage of 
it that the trade would admit ; and perhaps I might 
meet with some encouragement. 

I embraced the ofier ; and entering into ,a strict 
friendship with this captain, who was an honest and 
plain-dealing man, I went the voyage with him, and 
carried a small adventure with me, which, by the 
disinterested honesty of my friend the captain, I 
increased very considerably; for I carried about 
40l. in such toys and trifles as the captain directed 
me to buy. This 401. I had mustered together by 
the assistance of some of my relations, whom I cor-i- 
responded with, and who, I believe, got my father, 
or at least my mother, to contribute so much as 
that to my first adventure. 

This was the only voyage which I may say was 
successful in all my adventures, and which I owe 
to the integrity and honesty of my friend the cap- 
tain ; under whom also I got a competent knowledge 
of the mathematics, and the rules of navigation ; 
learned how to keep an account of the ship's course, 
take an observation, and, in short, to understand 
some things that were needful to be understood by 
a bailor : For, as he took delight to instruct me, X 



M TUB LIFE AND ADVENTUfiES 

took delight to leam ; and, in k word, this voyage 
made tne both a sailor and a merchant : For I 
brought home five pounds nine ounces of gold-dnit 
for my adventure, which yielded roe in London, at 
my return, almost 300l.; and thia filled me with 
(hose aapiring thoughts which have since so com- 
pleted ray rain. 

Yet, even in this voyage, I had my miBfortunes 
too ; particalarly that I was continually tick, being 
thrown into a violent calenture by die excessive 
heat of the climate; onr principal trading being 
npon the coa«t, from the lat. of 15 degrees N. even 
to the Line itself. 

I was now set up (oi & Giiinea trader ; and my 

friend, to my great misfortune, dying soon afier his 

arrival, I resolved to go the-same voyage again; 

and I enibarked in the same vessel with one who 

was his mate in the former voyage, and had now 

got the command of the ship. This was the un- 

happiest voyage that ever man made ; for though 

I did not carry qoite lOOl. of my new-gained 

weallfa, BO that 1 had 2001. left, and which I lod> 

ged with my friend's widow, who was very just to 

vet 1 fell into terrible misfortanes in this voy- 

he first was this ; viz. Our ship, making 

towards the Canary Islands, w radier 

tose islands and the African shore, was 

n the grey of the morning, by a Mooiv 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. Itl 

ish rover of Sallee, who gave chace to us with aU 
the sail she could make. We crowded also as much 
canvas as our yards would spread, or our masts 
cany, to have got clear; but finding the pirate 
gained upon us, and would certainly come up wkh 
us in a few hours, we prepared to fight ; our ^ip 
having twelve guns, and the rover eighteen. About 
tkree in the ' afternoon he came up with us, and 
bringing to, by mistake, just athwart our quarter, 
instead of athwart our stern, as he intended, we 
brought eight of our guns to bear on that side, and 
poured in a broadside upon him, which made him 
flheer off again, after returning our fire, and pour- 
ing in also his small shot, from near two hundred 
men which he had on board. However, we had 
not a man touched, all our men keeping close. He 
prepared to attack us again, and we to defend oor- 
fielves ; but laying us on board the next time upon 
our other quarter, he entered sixty men upon our 
decks, who immediately fell to cutting and hacking 
the decks and rigging. We plied them with small 
shot, half-pikes, powder-chests, and such like, and 
cleared our deck of them twice. However, to cut 
jhort this melancholy part of our story, our ship 
being disabled, and three of our men killed, and 
eight wounded, we were obliged to yield ; and were 
carried all prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging 
to the Moors. 



ffS THE LIFE AND ADTENTURES 

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at 
first I apprehended ; nor was I carried up the coon- 
try, to the emperor's court, as the rest of our men 
were, but waft kept by the captain of the rover, as 
his proper prize, and made his slave, being youog 
and nimble, and fit for his business. At this surpri- 
sing change of my circumstances, from a merchant 
to a miserable slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed ; 
and now I looked back upon my father's prophetic 
discourse to me, that I should be miserable, and 
have none to relieve me; which I thought was 
now so efiectually brought to pass, that I could not 
be worse ; that now the hand of heaven had over- 
taken me, and I was undone without redemption. 
But, alas ! this was but a taste of the misery I was 
to go through, as will appear in the sequel of this 
story. 

As my new patron or master had taken me home 
to his house, so I was in hopes that he would take 
me with him when he went to sea again, believing 
that it would be some time or other his fate to be 
taken by a Spanish or Portugal man of war ^ and 
that then I should be set at liberty. But this hope of 
mine was soon taken away ; for when he went to sea» 
he lefi me on shore to look after his little garden, and 
do the common drudgery of slaves about his house; 
and when he came home again from his cruize, he 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 99 

ordered me to lie in the cabin to look after the 
ship. 

Here I meditated nothing bat my escape^ and 
what method I might take to efiect it ; bat found 
no way that had the least probability in it. No- 
thing presented 'to make the supposition of it ra* 
tional ; for I had nobody to communicate it to that 
would embark with me; no fellow-slaye> no Eng- 
lishman, Irishman* or Scotsman there, but myself; 
so that for two years, though I often pleased my- 
self ¥nth the imagination, yet I never had the least 
encouraging prospect of putting it in practice. 

After about two years, an odd circumstance pre- 
sented itself, which put the old thought of making 
some attempt for my liberty again in my head : 
My patron lying at home longer than usual, with- 
oat fitting out his ship, which, as I heard, was for 
want of money, he used constantly, once or twice a 
week, sometimes oftener, if the weather was fair, 
to take the ship's pinnace, and go out intothe road 
a^fishing; and as he always took me and a young 
Moresoo with him to row the boat, we made him 
very merry, and I proved very dexterous in catch- 
ing fish ; insomuch, that sometimes he would send 
me with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youths 
the Moresco, as they called hin^ to catch a dish of 
fish for him* 



99 THE hlFE AND ADYBNTUBBS 

It happefiecl one time» that going arfkhing with^ 
him in a calm morning, a fog rose so thick, that 
though we were not half a league from the shore* 
we lost sight of it ; and rowing we knew not whi* 
ther> or which way, we laboured all day, and all 
the next night ^ and when the morning came, we 
fottnd we had pulled off to sea, instead of pulling in 
for the shore ; and that we were at least two leagues 
from the land : However, we got well in again, 
though with a great deal of labour, and some dan- 
ger ; for the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the 
morning ; but, particularly, we were all very hun-* 

gry- 
But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved 

to take more care of himself for the future ; and ha- 
ving lying by him the long-boat of our English 
•hip which he had taken, he resolved he would not 
go a-fishing any more without a compass and some 
provision ; so he ordered the carpenter of his ship> 
who also was an English slave, to build a little 
state-room, or cabin, in the middle of the long-boat, 
like that of a barge, with a place to stand behind 
it to steer, and haul home the main-sheet; and 
room before for a hand or two to stand and work 
the 8ails« She sailed with what we call a shoulder- 
of-mutton sail ; and the boom jibbed over the top 
of the cabin, which lay very snug and low, and had 
in it room for him to lie, with a slave or two, and 



: OF ROBINSON eitUSOE* St 

a table to eat on, with some small lockers to pat in 
•ome bottles of such liquor as he thought fit t& 
dnok ; particularly his bread, rice, aad coffee. 

We were frequently out with this boat a-»fiahiDg; 
and as I was most dexterous to catch fish for him, 
he never went without me. It happened one day« 
that he had appointed to go out in this boaty either 
for pleasure or for fish, with two or three Moors 
of some distinction, and for whom he had provided 
extraordinarily; and had therefore set on board 
the boat over night a larger store of protisions than 
usual ; and had ordered me to get ready three fu* 
sils with powder and shot, which were on board hit 
ship ; for that they designed some sport of fowling* 
as well as fishing. 

I got all things ready, as he had directed ; and 
waited the next morning with the boat washed 
clean, her ancient and pendants out, and every 
thing to accommodate his guests ; when by and by 
my patron came on board alone, and told me his 
guests had put off going, upon some business that 
fell out; and ordered me, with the man and boy» 
as usual, to go out with the boat, and catch them 
some fish, for that his friends were to sup at his 
house ; he commanded me too, that as soon as I 
had got some fish, I should bring it home to his 
house ; all which I prepared to do. 



3S THB UFE AND ADVENTURES 

This moment my former notions of deliyerance 
darted into my thoughts; for now I found I was 
like to have a little ship at my command ; and my 
master being gone, 1 prepared to furnish myself, 
not for fishing business, but for a voyage ; though 
I knew not, neither did I so much as consider whi- 
ther I would steer ; for any where to get out of 
that place was my way. 

My first contrivance was to make a pretence to 
speak to this Moor, to get something for our sub- 
sistence on board ; for I told him we must not pre- 
sume to eat of our patron's bread ; he said, that was 
true : so he brought a large basket of rusk or bis- 
cuit of their kind, and three jars with fresh water, 
into the boat. I knew where my patron's case of 
bottles stood, which, it was evident by the make, 
were taken out of some English prize, and I con- 
veyed them into the boat while the Moor was on 
shore, as if they had been there before for our 
master : I conveyed also a great lump of bees- wax 
into the boat, which weighed above half a hundred 
weight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, 
a saw, and a hammer, all which were of great use 
to us afterwards, especially the wax to make can- 
dles. Another trick I tried upon him, which he 
innocently came into also ; his name was Lunael, 
whom they call Muly, or Moley ; so I called to 
him : ^ Moley,'' said I« *' our patron's guns are on 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 5S 

board the boat; can you not get a little powder 
and shot ? it may be we may kill some alcamies (a 
fowl like our curlews) for oarselves^ for I know he 
keeps the gunner's stores in the ship/'-— '' Yes/' 
says he, ** I'll bring some '" and accordingly he 
brought a great leather pouch, which held about a 
pound and a half of powder, or rather more; and 
another with shot, that had five or six pounds, 
with some bullets, and put all into the boat : at 
the same time 1 had found some powder of my 
master's in the great cabin, with which I filled 
one of the large bottles in the case, which was al« 
most empty, pouring what was in it into another ; 
and thus furnished with' every thing needful, we 
sailed out of the port to 6sh. The castle, which 
is at the entrance of the port, knew who we wope, 
and took no notice of us : and we were not above 
a mile out of the port before we hauled in our sail, 
and set us down to fish. The wind blew from the 
north-north-east, which was contrary to my de* 
sire ; for had it blown southerly, I had been sure 
to have made the coast of Spain, and at least 
reached to the bay of Cadiz ; but my resolutions 
were, blow which way it would, I would be gone 
from that horrid place where I was, and ^ave the 
rest to fate. 

Afler we had fished some time and catched no- 
thing, for when I had fish on my hook I would 

• VOL. T. c 



34 THE LIF£ AND ADVENTURES 

not pull them up^ that he might not see them, I 
said to the Moor, " This will not do ; our master 
will not he thus served; we must stand farther 
off/' He, thinking no harm, agreed, and, being 
in the head of the boat, set the sails ; and as I had 
the helm, I iiiu the boat out near a league ferther, 
and then brought her to as if I would fish ; when, 
giving the boy the helm, I stepped forward to 
where the Moor was, and making as if I stooped 
for something behind him, I took him by surprise 
with my arm under his twist, and tossed him clear 
overboard into the sea; he rose immediately, for 
he swam like a cork, and called to me, begged 
to be taken in, told me he would go all over the 
world with me. He swam so strong after the 
boat, that he would have reached me very quickly, 
there being but little wind; upon which I stepped 
into the cabin, and fetching one of the fowling- 
pieces, I presented it at him, and told him, I had 
done him no hurt, and if he would be quiet I 
would do him none : " But,*' said I, *' you swim 
well enough to reach to the shore, and the sea is 
calm ;' make the best of your way to shore, and I 
will do you no harm ; but if you come near th^ 
boat, ril shoot you through the head, for I am rer 
solved to have my liberty *" so he turned himself 
^bout^ aud swam for the shore, an^ I make no 



Wben gMag tbe boy the brim, and ptetciidb« (o 
Moop for HHDethtDg, I wlied Holy by inrpTise, and 



.*> 



T.ig N'BV/ YOl^K 

-■;-LIC LIBRARY 

I 
I 



\ <' 


• ^'^, LT .'^^ >. \VD 


riu " 


c:h t -VNUATj-ONi 


K 


L 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 36 

doubt but be reached it with ease, for he was aa 
excellent swimmer. 

I could have been content to have taken this 
Moor with me, and have drowned the boy, but 
there was no venturing to trust him. When he 
was gone, I turned to the boy, whom they called 
Xury, and said to him, ''Xury, if you will be 
faithful to me I'll make you a great man; but if 
you will not stroke your face to be true to me,'^ 
that is, swear by Mahomet and his father's beard, 
** I must throw you into the sea too." The boy 
smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently, that 
I could not mistrust him ; and swore to be faithful 
to me^ and go all over the world with me. 

While I was in view of the Moor that was swim- 
ming, I stood out directly to sea with the boat, 
rather stretching to windward, that they might 
think me gone towards the Straits' mouth, as in- 
deed any one that had been in their wits must 
have been supposed to do y for who would have 
supposed we were sailed on to the southward to 
the tnily Barbarian coast, where whole nations 
of Negroes were sure to surround us with their 
canoes, and destroy us ; where we could never 
once go on shore, but we should be devoured by 
savage beasts, or more merciless savages of hu? 
ynankind? 



36 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

Bat as soon as it grew dusk in the evenings I 
changed my course, and steered directly south and 
by east, bending my course a little toward the east, 
that I might keep in with the shore ; and having a 
fair, fresh gale of wind, and a smooth, quiet sea^ I 
made such sail, that I believe by the next day at 
three o'clock in the afternoon, when I first made 
the land, I could not be less than 150 miles ^uth 
of Sallee ; quite beyond the emperor of Morocco's 
dominions, or indeed of any other king there-* 
abouts, for we saw no people. 

Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, 
and the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling in- 
to their hands, that I would not stop, or go on 
shore, or come to an anchor ; the wind continu- 
ing fair till I had sailed in that manner five days ; 
and then the wind shifting to the southward, I 
concluded also that if any of our vessels were in 
chase of me, they also would now give over ; so I 
ventured to make to the coast, and come to an an- 
chor in the mouth of a little river, I knew not what, 
or where ; neither what latitude, what country, what 
nation,* or what river : I neither saw, or desired to 
see, any people ; the principal thing I wanted was 
fresh water. We came into this creek in the 
evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon as 
it was dark, and discover the country; but as 
soon as it was quite dark, we heard sudi dread- 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 81 

ful noises of the barkings roarings and howling of 
wild creatures, of we knew not what kinds, that 
the poor boy was ready to die with fear, and beg- 
ged of me not to go on shore till day. " Well, 
Xury/* said I, " then I won't; but it may be w« 
may see men by day, who will be as bad to us as 
those lions.''—" Then we give them the shoot 
gun/' says Xurj^ laughing, ** make them run wey." 
Such English Xury spoke by conversing among us 
slaves. However, I was glad to see the boy so 
cheerful, and I gave him a dram (out of our par 
tron's case of bottles) to cheer him up. After all, 
Xury's advice was good, and I took it; we drop- 
ped our little anchor, and lay still all night ; I say 
still, for we slept none; for in two or three hours we 
saw vast great creatures (we knew not what to call 
them) of many sorts, come down to the sear shore, 
and run into the water, wallowing and washing 
themselves for the pleasure of cooling themselves ; 
and they made such hideous bowlings and yellings, 
that I never indeed heard the like. 

Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was 
I too : But we were both more frighted when we 
heard one of these mighty creatures come swimming 
towards our boat ; we could not see him, but we 
might hear him by his blowing, to be a monstrous, 
huge, and furious . beast ; Xury said it was a lion, 
and it might be so for aught I know. Poor Xury. 



as THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

cried to me to weigh the anchor, and row away, 
" No/' says I, " Xury, we can slip our cabfe 
with a buoy to it> and go to sea ; they cannot fof- 
low us far/' I had no sooner said so> but I percei- 
ved the creature (whatever it was) within two oars 
length, which something surprised me ; however, I 
immediately stept to the cabin-door, and taking up 
my gun, fired at him ; upon which he immediately 
turned about, and swam to the shore again. 

But it was not possible to describe the horrible 
noises, and hideous cries and bowlings, that were 
raised, as well upon the edge of the j^ore, as higher 
within the country, upon the noise or report of a 
gun ; a thing I have some reason to believe those 
creatures had never heard befure. This convinced 
me, that there was no going on shore for us in the 
night upon that coast; and how to venture on 
shore in the day, was another question too-; for to 
have fallen into the hands of any of the savages, 
had been as bad as to have fallen into the paws of 
lions and tigers ; at least we were equally appre- 
hensive of the danger of rt. 

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on 
shore somewhere or other for water, for we had not 
a pint left in the boat ; when or where to get to it 
was the point : Xury said, if I would let him go on 
shore with one of the jars, he would find if there 
was aay water^ and bring some to me. I asked hira 



' or ROBINSON CRUSOE. 39 

why he would go ? why I shonld not go^ and he 
stay in the boat ? The boy answered with so much 
affection^ that made me love him ever after. Says 
he, " If wild man« come, they eat me, you go wcy/' 
". Well, Xury,** said I, " we will both go, and if 
the wild mans come, we /will kill them, they shall 
eat neither of us." So I gave Xury a piece of rusk- 
bread to eat, and a dram out of our patron's case 
of bottles^ which 1 mentioned before ; and we hauled 
the boat in as near the shore as we thought was 
proper, and waded on shore ; carrying nothing but 
our arms, and two jars for water. 

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fear-, 
ing the coming of canoes with savages down the 
river : but the boy, seeing a low place about a mile 
up the country, rambled to it ; and by and by I saw 
him come running towards me. I thought he was 
pursued by some savage, or frighted with some wild 
beast, and I run forward towards him to help him ; 
but when I came nearer to him, I saw something 
hanging over his shoulders, which was a creature 
that he had shot, like a hare, but dif]%rent in colour, 
and longer legs; however, we were very glad of it, 
and it was very good meat ; but the great joy that 
poor Xury came with, was to tell me he had found 
good water, and seen no wild manst 

But we found afterwards that we need not take 
such pains for water, for a little higher up the creek 



40 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

where we were, we found the water fresh when the 
tide was oat, which flows but a little way up ; so 
we filled our jars, and feasted on the hare we had 
killed, and prepared to go on our way, having seen 
no footsteps of any human creature in that part of 
the country. 

As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I 
knew very well that the islands of the Canaries, and 
the Cape de Verd islands also, lay not far off from 
the coast But as I had no instruments to take an 
observation to know what latitude we were in, and 
did not exactly know, or at least not remember, what 
latitude they were in, and knew not where to look 
for them, or when to stand off to sea towards them ; 
otherwise I might now easily have found some of 
these islands* But my hope was, that if I stood 
along this coast till I came to that part where the 
English traded, I should find some of their vessels 
upon their usual design of trade, that would relieve 
^nd take us in. 

By the best of my calculation, that place where 
I now was> must be that country, which, lying be- 
tween the emperor of Morocco's dominions and the 
Negroes, lies waste, and uninhabited, except by wild 
beasts; the Negroes having abandoned it, and gone 
farther south for fear of the Moors ; and the Moors 
not thinking it worth inhabiting, by reason of its 
barrenness; and indeed both forsaking it because of 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 41 

the pcodigious numbers of tigers, lions, leopardif^ 
and other furious creatures which harbour there ; 
so that the Moors use it for their hunting only, 
where they go like an army^two or three thousand 
men at a time ; and indeed fof near an hundred 
miles together upon this coast, we saw nothing but 
a waste uninhabited country by day, and heard no- 
thing but bowlings and roaring of wild beasts by 
night 

Once or twice in the day time I thought I saw 
the Pico of Tenerifie, being the high top of the 
mountain Tenerifie in the Canaries; and had a 
great mind to venture out in hopes of reaching thi- 
ther; but having tried twice, I was forced in again 
by contrary winds, the sea also going too high for 
my little vessel ; so I resolved to pursue my first 
design, and keep along the shore. 

Several times I was obliged to land for fresh wa« 
ter, after we had left this place ; and once in parti- 
cular, being early in the morning, we came to an 
anchor under a little point of land which was pret- 
ty high ; and, the tide beginning to flow, we lay 
still to go farther in. Xqry, whose eyes were more 
about him than it seems mine were, calls softly to 
me, and tells me, that we had best go farther ofT 
the shore ; '' for,'' says he, " look, yonder lies a 
dreadful monster on the side of that hillock fsutt 
asleep." I looked where he pointed, and saw a 



/ 

42 THE LIFE AKD ADVENTURES 

dread fal monster indeed, for it was a terrible great 
lion that lay on the side of the shore, under the 
shade of a piece of the hill that hang as it were a 
little over him. " Xary," says I, " you shall go on 
shore and kill him/' Xury looked frighted, and 
said, ** Me kill ! he eat me at one mouth ;'' one 
mouthful he meant : however, I said no more to the 
boy, but bade him lie still, and I took our biggest 
gun, which was almost musket-bore, and loaded it 
with a good charge of powder, and with two slugs, 
and laid it down ; then I loaded another gun with 
two bullets ; and the third, for we had three pieces, 
I loaded with five smaller bullets. I took the best 
aim I could with the first piece to have shot him 
into the head, but he lay so with his leg raised a 
little abore his nose, that the slugs hit his leg 
about the knee, and broke the bone. He started 
up, growling at first, but finding his leg broke, fell 
down again, and then got* up upon three legs, and 
gave the most hideous roar that ever I heard. I 
was al ittle surprised that I had not hit him on the 
head ; however, I took up the second piece imme* 
diately, and, though he began to move o(i^ fired 
again, and shot him into the head, and had the 
pleasure to see him drop, and make but little noise, 
but lie struggling for life. Then Xury took heart, 
and would have me let him go on shore ; '' Well, 
go," said I; so the boy jumped into the water, and. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 49 

taking a little gun in one hand, swam to shore 
with the other hand, and coming close to the crea* 
ture, put the muzzle of the piece to his ear, and 
shot him into the head again, which dispatched 
him quite. 

This was game indeed to us, but this was no 
food ; and I was very sorry to lose three charges 
of powder and shot upon a creature that was good 
for nothing to us. However, Xury said he would 
have some of him ; so he comes on board, and 
asked me to give him the hatchet '* For what, 
Xury ?*' said I. " Me cut off his head," said he. 
However, Xury could not cut off his head, but he 
cut off a foot, and brought it with him, and it was 
a monstrous great one. 

I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the 
skin of him might one way or other be of some 
value to us ; and I resolved to take off his skin, if 
I could. So Xury and I went to work with him ; 
but Xury was much the better workman at it, for 
I knew very ill how to do it Indeed, it took us both 
up the whole day, but at last we got off the hide 
of him, and, spreading it on the top of our cabii^ 
the sun efiectually dried it in two days time, and it 
afterwards served me to lie upon. 



4« THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 



CHAP. III. 

Make for the Southward in hopes of meeting xvith 
some "European Vessel — See Savages along shore--^ 
Shoot a large Leopard — Am taken up ly a Mer^ 
chantman — Arrive at the Brazils, and huy a Settle- 
mentthere^^Cannot be quiet, biU sail on a voyage of 
adventure to GmneO'-^Ship strikes on a Sand-bank 
in unknown Land^^All lost but myseff, who am 
driven asltore, Italfdead. 

After this stop, we made on to the southward 
continually for ten or twelve days, liviRg very spa- 
ring on our provisions, which began to abate very 
much, and going no oftener into the shore than we 
were obliged to for fresh water : my design in this 
was, to make the river Gambia or Senegal, that is 
to say, any where about the Cape de Verd, where 
I was in hopes to meet with some European ship ; 
and if I did not, I knew not what course I had to 
take, but to seek for the islands, or perish there 
among the Negroes. I knew that all the ships 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* 45 

from Europe, which sailed either to the coast of 
Guinea or to Brazil, or to the East Indiesy made 
this Cape, or those islands; and, in a word, I put 
the whole of my fortune upon this single point, ei- 
ther that I must meet with some ship, or must pe* 
rish. 

When I had pursued this resolution about ten 
days longer, as I have said, I began to see that the 
land was inhabited ; and in two or three places, as 
we sailed by, we saw people stand upon the shore 
to look at us; we could also perceive they were 
quite black, and stark naked. I was once inclined 
to have gone on shore to them ; but Xury was my 
better counsellor, and said to me, ** No go, no go.** 
However, I hauled in nearer the shore that I might 
talk to them, and I found they run along the shore 
by me a good way : I observed they had no wea- 
pons in their hands, except one, who had a long 
slender stick, which Xury said was a lance, and 
that they would throw them a great way with good 
aim ; so I kept at a distance, but talked with them 
by signs as well as I could ; and particularly made 
signs for something to eat ; they beckoned to me 
to stop my boat, and they would fetch me some 
meat. Upon this I lowered the^ top of my sail, and 
lay by, and two of them ran up into the country, 
and in less than half an hour came back, and 
brought with them two pieces of dry flesh and 



46 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

some corn« such as is the produce of their country; 
but we neither knew what the one nor the other 
was : however, we were willing* to accept it, but 
how to come at it was our next dispute, for I was 
not for venturing on shore to them, and they were 
as much afraid of us : bu^ they took a safe way for 
us all, for they brought it to the shore, and laid it 
down, and went and stood a great way off till we 
fetched it on board, and then came close to us 
again. 

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had 
nothing to make them amends ; but an opportuni« 
ty offered that very instant to oblige them wonder* 
fully ; for while we were lying by the shore, came 
two mighty creatures, one pursuing the other (as 
we took it) with great fury from the mountains tOf 
wards th^ sea ; whether it was the male pursuing 
the fj^male, or whether they were in sport or in 
rage, we could not tell, any more than we coula tell 
whether it was usual or strange, but I believe it was 
the latter ; because, in the first place, those raven- 
ous creatures seldom appear but in the night ; and, 
in the second place, we found the people terribly 
frighted, especially the women. The man that had 
the lance, or dart, did not fly from them, but the 
rest did ; however, as the two creatures ran direct- 
ly into the water, they did not seem to ofler to fall 
upon any of the Negroes, but plunged themselves 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 47 

into the sea, and swam about as if they had come 
for their diyersion. At last one of them began to 
come nearer our boat than at first I expected; but 
I lay ready for him, for I had loaded my gun with 
all possible expedition, and bade Xury load both the 
others : as soon as he came fairly within my reach 
I fired, and shot him directly into the head; iob- 
mediately he sunk down into the water, but rose 
instantly, and plunged up and down as if he was 
struggling for life ;, and so indeed he was : he im- 
mediately made to the shore; but between the 
wound, which was his mortal hurt, and the strang- 
ling of the water, he died just before he reached the 
dshore. 

It is impossible to express the astonishment of 
these poor creatures at the noise and the fire of 
fny gun ; some of them were even ready to die for 
fear, and fell down as dead with the very terror. 
But when they saw tlie creature dead, and sunk in 
the water, and that I made signs to them to come 
to the shore, they took heart, and came to the shore, 
and began to search for the creature. I found him 
by his blood staining the water, and by the help of 
a rope, which I slung round him, and gaye the Ne- 
groes to haul, they dragged him on shore, and 
found that it was a most curious leopard, spotted 
and fine to an admirable degree, and the Negro^ 



48 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

held up their hands with admiration to think what 
it was I had killed him with. 

The other creature, frighted with the flash of fire 
and the noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran 
up directly to the mountains from whence they 
came» nor could I at that distance know what it 
was. I found quickly the Negroes were for eating 
the flesh of this creature, so I was willing to have 
them take it as a favour from me, which, when I 
made signs to them that they might take him, they 
were very thankful for. Immediately they fell to 
work with him, and though they had no knife, yet 
with a sharpened piece of wood they took ofl* his 
skin as readily, and much more readily, than we> 
could have done with a knife. They oflfered me 
some of the flesh, which I declined, making as if I 
would give it them, but made signs for the skin, 
which they gave me very freely, and brought me a 
great deal more of their provision, which, though I 
did not understand, yet I accepted ; then I made 
signs to them for some water, and held out one of 
my jars to them, turning it bottom upward, to show 
that it was empty, and that I wanted to have it fil- 
led. They called immediately to some of their 
friends, and there came two women, and brought 
a great vessel made of earth, and burnt, as I sup* 
pose, in the sun ; this they set down for me, as be* 
fore, and I sent Xury on shore with my jars, and 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 40 

filled them all three. The women were as stark na- 
ked as the men. 

I was now furnished with roots and com> sach as 
it was« and water ; and« leaving my friendly Ne- 
groeSy I made forward for about eleven days more, 
without offering to go near the shore, till I saw the 
land run out a great length into the sea, at about 
the distance of four or five leagues before me; and 
the sea being very calm, I kept a large offing to 
make this point : at length, doubliQg the point at 
about two leagues from the land, I saw plainly land 
on the other side to sea-ward ; then I concluded, as 
it was most certain indeed, that this was the Cape 
de Verd, and those the islands, called from thence 
Cape de Verd Islands. However, they were at a 
great distance, and I could not well tell what 1 had 
best to do ; for if I should be taken with a fi^sh of 
wind, I might neither reach one nor the other. 

In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped 
into the cabin, and sat me down, Xury having the 
helm, when on a sudden the boy cried out, " Masr 
ter, master, a ship with a sail!'^ and the foolish 
boy was frighted out of his wits> thinking it must 
needs be some of his master's ships sent to pursue 
us, when I knew we were gotten far enough out of 
their reach. I jumped out of the cabin, and imme- 
diately saw not only the ship, but what she was, 
Tiz. that it was a Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, 

VOL. I, D 



60 THE LIFB AND ADVENTimES 

was bound to the coast of Guinea for Negroes. But 
when I observed the course she steered, I was soon 
conyittced they were bound some other way; and 
did not design to come any nearer to the shore ; up- 
on which I stretched out to sea as much as I could» 
resolving to speak with them, if possible. 

With all the sail I could make, I found I should 
not be able to come in their way, but that they 
would be gone by before I could make any signal 
to them ; but, after I had crowded to the utmost, 
and began to despair, they, it seems, saw me by 
the help of their perspective-glasses, and that it 
was some European boat, which, as they supposed, 
must belong to some ship that was lost; so they 
shortened sail to let me come up. I was encoura- 
ged with this ; and as I had my patron's ancient 
on board, I made a waft of it to them for a signal 
of distress, and fired a gun, both which they saw, 
for they told me they saw the smoke, though they 
did not hear the gun ; upon these signals they very 
kindly brought to, and lay by for me, and in about 
three hours time I came up with them^ 

They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and 

in Spanish, and in French ; but I understood none 

of them ; but at last a Scots sailor, who was on 

board, called to me, and I answered him, and told 

him I was an Englishman, that I had made my 

escape out of slavery from the Moors at Sallee* 
a 



OF HOBINSON CRUSOB. 51 

Then they bade me come on board, and Teiy kind- 
ly took me in, and all my goods. 

It was an inexpressible joy to me, as any one 
would believe, that I was thus deltyered, as I e»^ 
teemed it, from such a miserable and almost hope* 
less condition as I was in, and inmiediately oflfered 
all I had to the captain of the ship, as a return for 
my deliverance; biit he generously told me, he 
would take nothing from me, but that all I had 
should be delivered safe to me when I came to the 
Brazils ; *' for,'' says he, ** I hare saved your life 
on no other terms than I would be glad to be saved 
myself; and it may one time or other be my lot 
to be taken up in the same condition : besides/' 
said he, ** when I carry you to the Brazils, so great 
a way from your own country, if I should take 
from you what you have, you will be starved there, 
and then I only take away that life 1 have given. 
No, no, Seignor Inglese,'' says he, ** Mr English- 
man, I will cany you thither in charity, and those 
things will help you to bay your subsistence there, 
and your passage home again/' 

As he was charitable in his proposal, so he was 
just in the performance to a tittle; for he ordered 
the seamen, that none should offer to touch any 
thing I had : th^n he took everything into his own 
possession, and gave me back an exact inventory 



u thiq; life and adtentures 

pf them^ that I might have them; even so much as 
my three earthen jars. 

As to my boat« it was a very good one, and that 
he saw, and told me he would buy it of me for the 
ship's use, and asked me what I would hare for it ? 
I told him, he had been so generous to me in eyery 
thing, that I could not ofifer to make any price of 
the boat, but left it entirely to him ; upon which 
he told me, he would give me a note of his hand 
to pay me eighty pieces of eight for it at Brazil ; 
and when it came there, if any one ofifered to give 
more, he would make it up : he offered me also six- 
ty pieces of eight more for my boy Xury, which I 
was loath to take ; not that I was not willing to let 
the captain have him, but I was very loath to sell 
the poor boy's liberty, who had assisted me so 
faithfully in procuring my own. However, when I 
let him know my reason, he owned it to be just, 
and offered me this medium, that he would give the 
boy an obligation to set him free in ten years, if 
be turned Christian. Upon this, and Xury saying 
he was willing to go to him, I let the captain have 
hith. 

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and 
arrived in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All 
Saints' Bay, in about twenty-two days after. And 
now I was once more delivered from the most mi- 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 6S 

serable of all conditions of life; and what to do 
next with myself^ I was now to consider. 

The generous treatment the captain gave me/I 
can never enough remember ; he would take no- 
thing of me for my passage^ ^ave me twenty du- 
cats for the leopard's skin^ and forty for the lion's 
skin which I had in my boat, and caused every 
thing I had in the ship to be punctually delivered 
me ; and what I was willing to sell he bought, such 
as the case of bottles, two of my guns, and a piece 
of the lump of bees wax, for I had made candles of 
the i^est ; in a word, I made about two hundred and 
twenty pieces of eight of all my cargo ; and with 
this stock I went on shore in the Brazils. 

I had not been long here, but being recommend- 
ed to the house of a good honest man like himself, 
who had an it^eino, as they call it; that is, a plan- 
tation and a sugar-house ; I lived with him some 
time, and acquainted myself by that means with 
the manner of their planting and making of sugar; 
and seeing how well the planters lived, and how 
they grew rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could get 
license to settle there, I would turn planter among 
them; resolving, in the mean time, to iind out some 
way to get my ' money, which I had left in Lon- 
don, remitted to me. To this purpose, getting a 
kind of a letter of naturalization, I purchased as 
much land that was uncured as my money would 



M THB UFE AND ADV^KTURBS 

reach« and fonned a plan for my plantation and 
settlement and such a one as might be suitable to 
the stock which I proposed to myself to receive 
from England. 

I had a neighboyo a Portuguese of Lisbon, but 
bom of English parents, whose name was Wells, 
and in much such circumstances as I was. I call 
him neighbour, because his plantation lay next to 
mine, and we went on very sociable together. My 
stock was but low, as well as his; and we rather 
planted for food, than any thing else, for about 
two years. However, we began to increase, and 
our land began to come into order; so that the 
third year we planted some tobacco, and made 
each of us a large piece of ground ready for plant- 
ing canes in the year to come; but we both want- 
ed help ; and now I found, more than before, I had 
done wrong in paiting with my boy Xury. 

But,« alas ! for '^e to do wrong, that never did 
right, was no great* wonder : I had no remedy but 
to go on ; I was gotten into an employment quite 
remote to my genius^ and directly contrary to the 
life 1 delighted in, and for which I forsook my fsu 
ther's house, and broke through all his good advice; 
nay, I was coming into the very middle station, or 
upper degree, t>f low life, which my father advised 
me to before; and which, V:J. resolved to goon 
with, I might as well have staid srt home, and n»- 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. 50 

rer have fatigued myself in the world as I had 
done; and I used often to say to myself^ I coold 
have done tUs as well in England among my 
friends as have gone five thousand m3es off to do 
it among strangers and savages in a wilderness^ 
and at such distance, as never to hear from any 
part of the world that h^ the least knowledge of 
me. 

In this manner I used to look upon my condition 
with the utmost regret I had nobody to converse 
with, but now and then this neighbour; no work 
to be done, but by the labour of my hands; and I 
used to say, I lived just like a man cast away upon 
some desolate island, that had nobody there but 
himself. But how just has it been, and how should 
all men reflect, that;, when they compare their prs« 
sent conditions with others that are worse. Heaven 
may oblige them to make the exchange, and be 
convinced of their former felicity by their experi- 
ence; I say, how just has it been, that the truly 
solitary life I reflected on in an island of mere de*- 
solation should be my lot, who had so ofien unjust* 
ly compared it with the life which I then led, in 
which, had I continued, I had, in all probability, 
been exceeding prosperous and rich. 

I was, in some degree, settled in my measures for 
carrying on the plantation, before my kind friend, 
the eajj^a of the ship, that took me up at sea^ 



M THB LIFE AND ADVENTURES 



• 



went back ; for the ship remained there, in pro- 
Tiding his loading, and preparing for his voyage, 
near three months ; when, telling him what little 
stock I had left behind me in London, he gave me 
this friendly and sincere advice : ** Seignor In- 
glese,'' says he, for' so he always called me, '* if 
you will give me letters, and a procuration here in 
ibrm to me, with orders to the person who has your 
money in London, to send your effects to Lisbon, 
to such persons as I shall direct, and in such goods 
as are proper for this country, I will bring you the 
produce of them, God willing, at my return ; but, 
since human affairs are all subject to changes and 
disasters, I would have you give orders but for one 
hundred pounds sterling, which, you say, is half 
your stock, and let the hazard be run for the first; 
so that if it come safe, you may order the rest the 
same way ; and if it miscarry, you may have the 
other half to have recourse to for your supply/' 

This was so wholesome advice, and looked so 
friendly, that I could not but be convinced it was 
the best course I could take ; so I accordingly pre- 
pared letters to the gentlewoman with whom I had 
left my money, and a procuration to the Portuguese 
captain, as he desired. 

I wrote the English captain's widow a full ac- 
count of all my adventures, my slavery, escape, 
and how I had met with the Portugal captfiin at 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. AT 

sea, the humanity of his behayiour, and what con* 
dition I was now in, with all other necessary direc- 
tions for my supply ; and when this honest captain 
cs»ne to Lisbon^ he found means, by some of the 
English merchants there, to send over, not the or- 
der only, but a full account of my story, to a mer- 
chant at London, who represented it effectually to 
her ; whereupon, she not only delivered the mo- 
ney, but, out of her own pocket, sent the Portugal 
captain a very handsome present for his humanity 
and charity to me. 

The merchant in London vesting this hundred 
pounds in English goods, such as the captain had 
writ for, sent them directly to him at Lisbon, and 
he brought them all safe to me to the Brazils; 
among which, without my direction, (for I was too 
young in my business to think of them,) he had ta> 
ken care to have all sort of tools, iron-work, and 
utensils necessary for my plantation, and which 
were of great use to me. 

When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune 
made, for I was surprised with joy of it ; and my 
good steward, .the captain, had laid out the five 
pounds, which' my friend had sent him for a present 
for himself, to purchase, and bring me over a se»- 
vant under bond for six years service, and would 
not accept of any consideration, except a little to- 



98 THE LIFE AND ADYENTURKS 

bacco, which I would have him accept, being of 
my own produce. 

Neither was this all ; but my goods being all 
English manufacturegy such as cloth, stuffe, baize, 
and things particularly valuable and desirable in the 
country, I found means to sell them to a very great 
advantage ; so that I may say» I had more than four 
times the value of my first cargo, and was now in- 
finitely beyond my poor neighbour, I mean in the 
advancement of my plantation ; for the first thing 
1 did, I bought me a Negro slave, and an European 
servant also ; i mean another besides that which 
the captain brought me from Lisbon. 

But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the 
very means of our greatest adversity, so was it 
with me. I went on the next year with great suc- 
cess in my plantation : I raised fifty great rolls of 
tobacco on my own ground, more than I had dis- 
posed of for necessaries among my neighbours; 
and these fifty rolls, being each of above a hun^ 
dred weight, were well cured and laid by against 
the return of the fleet from Lisbon. And now, in- 
creasing in business and in wealth, my head began 
to be Ml of projects and undertakings beyond my 
reach; such as are indeed often the ruin of the best 
heads in business. 

Had I continued in the station I was now in, I 
had room for all the happy things to have yet be- 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 69 

fallen me> for which my father so earnestly recom- 
mended a quiet retired life, and of which he had so 
nensibly described the middle station of life to be 
full ; but other things attended me, and 1 was still 
to be the wilful agent of all my own miseries ; and 
particularly to increase my fauit» and double the 
reflections upon myself, which in my future sor- 
rows I should have leisure to make ; all these mis- 
carriages were procured by my apparent obstinate 
adhering to my feolish inclination of wandering 
abroad, and pursuing that inclination, in contradic- 
tion to the clearest views of doing myself good in 
a fair and plain pursuit of those prospects and thos« 
measures of life, which nature and Providence con- 
curred to present me with, and to fnake my duty. 

As I had done thus in my breaking away from, 
my parents, so I could not be content now, but I 
must go and leave the happy view I bad of being 
a rich and thriving man in my new plantation, on^ 
ly to pursue a rash and immoderate desire of rising 
faster than the nature of the thing admitted; and 
thus I cast myself down again into the deepest gulf 
of human misery that ever man fell into, or per- 
haps could be consistent with life and a state of 
health in the world. 

To come, then, by just degrees, to the particulars 
of this part of my story ; you may suppose, that, 
having now lived almost four years in the BnaSs^ 



60 THE LIFE AND ADVBNTURES 

and beginning to thrire and pro^r very we)! up^ 
on my plantation, I had not only learnt the Ian-- 
goage, but had contracted acquaintance and friend- 
ship among my fellow-planters, as well as among 
the merchants at St Salyadore, which was our port; 
and that in my discourse among them,' I had fre- 
quently giren them an account of my two Toya^es 
to the coast of Guinea, the manner of trading with 
the Negroes there, and how easy it was to purchase 
upon the cQast, for. trifies, such as beads, toys^ 
knives, scissars, hatchets, bits ci glass, and the like, 
not only gold-dust, Guinea grains, elephants teeth, 
&c. but Negroes for the service ei the Brazils in 
great numbers. 

They listened always very attentively to my di«- 
courses on these heads, but especially to that part 
which related to the buying Negroes, which was a 
trade at that time not only not far entered into, but, 
as far as it was, had been carried on by the Assi- 
entos, or permission of the kings of Spain and Pof> 
tugal, and engrossed in the public, so that few Ne- 
groes were bought, and those excessive desu*. 

It happened, being in company with some mer- 
chants and planters of my acquaintance, and talk- 
ing of those things very earnestly, three of them 
came to me the next morning, and told me, they 
had been musing very much upon what I had dis- 
coursed with them of the last night, and they came 



OF ROBINSON CRVSOE. «l 

to make a secret proposal to me; and, after en- 
joiniDg me secrecy^ they told me, that they had a 
mind to fit out a ship to go to Gwnea;' that they 
had all plantations as well as I, and were straitened 
for nothing so much as servants; that as it was a 
trade conld not be carried on, because they could 
not publicly sell the Negroes when they came 
home, so 4hey desited to make but one voyage, to 
bring the Negroes on shore privately, and divide 
them among their own plantations ; and, in a word, 
the question was, whether I would go their super- 
cargo in the ship, to manage the trauling part up- 
on the coast of Guinea ? and they c^red me, that 
I should have my equal share of the Negroes, with- 
out providing any part of the stock. 

This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed, 
had it been made to any one that had not had a 
settlement and plantation of his own to look after, 
which was in a &ir way of coming to be very con- 
siderable, and with a good stock upon it. But for 
me, that was thus entered and established, and had 
nothiag to do but go on as I had begun, for three 
or four years, more, and to have sent for the other 
hundred pounds from England, and who in that 
time, and with that little addition, could scarce 
have failed of being worth three or four thousand 
pounds sterlings and that increasing too ; for me to 
think of such a voyage, was the most preposterous 



02 THE LIFE AKD ADVENTURES 

thing that ever man in such circumstances could 
be guilty of. 

But I, that was bora to be my own destroyer, 
could no more resist the ofier, than I could restrain 
my first rambling designs, when my ^ther^s good 
counsel was lost upon me. In a word, I told them 
I would go with all my heart, if they would under- 
take to look after my plantation, in my absence, 
and would dispose of it to such as I should direct 
if I miscarried. This they all engaged to do, and 
entered into writings or covenants to do so ; and I 
made a formal will, disposing of my plantation and 
effects, in case of my death, making the captain of 
the ship, that had saved my life as before, my uni- 
versal heir, but obliging him to dispose of my ef- 
fects as I had directed in my will, one half of the 
produce being to himself, and the other to be ship- 
ped to England. 

In short, I took all possible caution to preserve 
my effects, and keep up my plantation : had I used 
half as much prudence to have looked into my own 
interest, and have made a judgment of what I 
ought to have done, and not to have done, I had 
certainly never gone away from so prosperous an 
undertaking, leaving all the probable views of a 
thriving circumstance, and gone upon a voyage to 
sea, attended with all its common hazards^ to say 



OF ROBIN&ON CRUSOE. 63 

nothing of the reasons I had to expect particular 
misfortunes to myself. 

But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the 
dictates of my fiemcy rather than my reason : and 
accordingly the ship being fitted out, and the 
cargo furnished, and all things done as by agree- 
ment by my partners in the voyage, I went on 
board in an evil hour again, the Ist of September, 
1659, being the same day eight years that I went 
from my father and mother at Hull, in order to 
act the rebel to their authority, and the fool to my 
own interest 

Our ship was about one hundred and twenty ton 
burden, carried six guns, and fourteen men, be- 
sides the master, his boy, and myself; we had on 
board no large cargo of goods, except of such toys 
as were fit for our trade with the Negroes, such at 
beads, bits of glass, shells, and odd trifles, espe- 
cially little looking-glasses, knires, sclssars, hat- 
chets, and the like. 

The same day I went on board we set sail* 
standing away to the northward upon our own 
coast, with design to stretch over for the African 
coast ; when they came about 10 or 12 degrees of 
northern latitude, which it seems was the manner 
of their course in those days. We had yery good 
weather, only excessive hot, all the way upon our 
own coast, tiQ we came the height of Cape St 



64 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

Attgustino, from whence keeping farther off at sea, 
we lost sight of land, and steered as if we were 
boand for the isle Fernand de Noronha, holding 
our coarse north«east by north, and leaving those 
isles on the east. In this course we passed the line 
in abont twelve days time, and were by our last 
observation in 7 degrees 22 minutes, northern la- 
titude, when a violent tornado, or harricane, took 
us quite out of our knowledge : it began from the 
south east, came about to the north-west, and then 
settled into the north-east ; from whence it blew in 
such a terrible manner, that for twelve days toge- 
ther we ttould do nothing but drive ; and scudding 
away before it, let it carry us whither ever fate and 
the fury of the winds directed ; and during these 
twelve days, I need not say that I expected every 
day to be swallowed up, nor indeed did any in the 
ship expect to save their lives. 

In this distress, we had, besides the terror of 
the storm, one of our men died of the calenture, 
and one man and the boy washed overboard. 
About the twelfth day, the weather abating a little, 
the master made an observation as well as he could, 
and found, that he was in about 1 1 degrees north 
latitude, but that he was 22 degrees of longitude 
diSerence west from Cape St Augustino ; so that 
he found he was gotten upon the coast of Guinea, 
or the north part of Brazil, beyond the river 
11 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 05 

Amazons, toward that of the river Oroonoqoe, 
commonly called the Great River, and began to 
consult with me what course he should take ; for the 
ship was leaky, and very much disabled, and\he 
was going directly back to the coast of Brazil. 

I was positively against that, and, looking over 
the charts of the sea-coasts of America with him, 
we concluded, there was no inhabited country for 
us to have recourse to, till we came within the cir- 
cle of the Caribbee islands; and therefore resolved 
to stand away for Barbadoes, which, by keeping off 
at sea, to avoid the indraft of the bay or gulf of 
Mexico, we might easily perform, as we hoped, in 
about fifteen days sail ; whereas we could not pos- 
sibly make our voyage to the coast of Africa with- 
out some assistance, both to our ship and to our* 
selves. 

With this design we changed our course, and 
steered away N. W» by W. in order to reach some 
of our English islands, where I hoped for relief; 
but our voyage was othervi'ise determined ; for, be- 
ing in the latitude of 12 deg. 18 min. a second 
storm came upon us, which carried us away with 
the same impetuosity westward, and drove us so 
out of the very way of all human commerce, that, 
had all our lives been saved, as to the sea, we were 
rather in danger of being devoured by savnges than 
ever returning to our own country. 

VOL. I. £ 



($6 THB LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

In this distress; the wind stiU blowing yery haid, 
one of oar men, early in the morning, cried out. 
Land ! and we had no sooner run out of the cabin 
to look out in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the 
world we were, but the ship struck upon a sand, 
and, in a moment, her motitm being so stopped, 
the sea broke over her in such a manner, that we 
expected we should all have perished immedi^ate- 
ly ; and we were immediately driven into our close 
quartern, to shelter us from the very foam and spray 
of the sea. 

It is not easy for any one, who has not been in 
the like condition, to describe or conceive the con- 
sternation of men in such circumstances : we knew 
nothing where we were, or upon what land it was 
we were driven, whether an island or the main, 
whether inhabited or not inhabited; and as the 
rage of the wind was still great, though rather less 
than at first, we could not so inuch as hope to have 
the ship hold many minutes without breaking in 
pieces, unless the winds, by a kind of miracle, 
should turn immediately about. In a word, we 
sat looking one upon another, and expecting death 
every moment, and every man acting accordingly, 
as preparing for another world; for there was little 
or nothing more for us to do in this : that which 
was our present comfort, and all th<e comfort we 
had, was, that, contrary to our expectation, the ship 



' — ~— Tbe Bblp Itrgck apon a saad, aod, id s mDmcnt, 
her motion ttelng m stopped, the tta broke over ber in 
nich a manDeT, tbmt we expected we ahould all have pe- 
rished immediately. 

TOL. I, Page M. 



THE NSW roar 






'^^•^Oationi 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. • 07 

did not break yet, and that the master said the 
wind began to abate. 

Now, though we thought that the wind did a 
little abate, yet the ship having thus struck upon 
the sand, and sticking too fast for us to expect her 
getting ofi^ we were in a dreadful condition indeed, 
and had nothing to do but to think of saving our 
lives as well as we could. We had a boat at our 
stern, just before the storm ; but she was first sta- 
ved by dashing against the ship's rudder, and in 
the next place she .broke away, and either sunk or 
was driven off to sea ; lu) there was no hope from 
her. We had another boat on board,. but 'how to 
get her off into the sea was a doubtful thing ; how- 
ever, there was no room to debate, for we fancied 
the ship would break ^a pieces every minute, and 
some told us she was actually broken ^ready* 

In this distress, theufdte of our vessel lays hold 
of the boat, and, with the help of the rest of the 
jnen, they got her slung over the ship's side, and 
getting all into her, let go, and committed ourselves^ 
being eleven in number, to God's mercy, and the 
wild sea; for though the storm was abated consi- 
derably, yet the sea went dreadful high upon the 
shore, and might well be called den wild zee, as the 
Dutch call the sea in a storm. 

And now our case was very dismal indeed ; for 
we all saw plainly, that the sea went so high, tha(t 



M THE LIFE AND ADVENTlTRES 

the boat could not live, and that we should be iir« 
evitably drowned. As to making sail, we had none^ 
noo if we had, could we hare done any thing with 
it; so we worked at the oar towards the land, 
though with heavy hearts, like men going to exe- 
cution ;> for we all knew, that when the boat came 
nearer the shore, she would be dashed in a thou- 
sand pieces by the breach of the sea. However, 
we committed our souls to God in the most earnest 
manner ; and the wind driving us towards the shore, 
we hastened our destruction with our own hands, 
pulling as well as we could towards land. 

What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whe- 
ther steep or shoal, we knew not ; the only hope 
that couki rationally give us the least shadow of 
expectation, was, if we might happen into some 
bay ov gulf, or the mouth of some river, where, by 
great chance, we might have run our boat in, or 
got under the lee of the land, and perhaps made 
smooth water. But there was nothing of this ap- 
pt^ared ; but, as we made nearer and nearer the 
shore, the land looked more frightful than the sea. 

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a 
league and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging 
wave, mountain-like, came rolling astern of us, and 
plainly bade us expect the coup-^de-grace. In a 
word, it took us with such a fury, that it overset 
the boat at once; and, separating us as well from 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 69 

*hc boat, as from one another/ gave us not time 
hardly to say O God ! for we were all swallowed 
up in a moment. 

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought 
which I felt when I sunk into the water ; for though 
I swam very well, yet I could not deliver myself 
from the waves so as to draw breath, till that wave 
having driven me, or rather carried me, a vast way 
on towards the shore, and, having spent itself, went 
back, and left me upou the land almost dry, but 
half dead with the water I took in. I had so much 
presence of mind, as well as breath left, that, see* 
ing myself nearer the main land than I expected, 
I got upon my feet, and endea^ oured to make on 
towards the land as fast as I could, before another 
wave should return, and take aie up again. But I 
soon found it was impossible to avoid it ; for I saw 
the sea come afler me as high as a great hill, and 
as furious as an enemy, which I had no means or 
strength to contend with ; my business was to hold 
my breath, and raise myself upon the water, if I 
could ; and so, by swimming, to preserve my 
breathing, and pilot myself towards the shore, if 
possible ; my greatest concern now being, that the 
sea, as it would carry me a great way towards the 
shore when it came on, might not carry me back 
again with it when it gave bs^ck towards the &ea» 



70 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

The wave that came upon me again« buried me 
at once twenty or thirty foot deep in its own body; 
and I could feel myself carried with a mighty force 
and swiftness towards the shore a very great way; 
but I held my breath, and assisted myself to swim * 
still forward with all my might*- I was ready to 
burst witb holding my breathy when, as I felt my« 
self rising up, so, to my immediate relief, I found 
mv head and hands shoot out above the surface of 
the water ; stnd though it was not two seconds of 
time that I could keep myself so, yet it relieved 
me greatly, gave me breath, and new courage. I 
was covered again wi!th water a good while, biit 
not so long but I held it out ; and; finding the water 
had spent itself, and began to return, I Struck for- 
ward against the return of the waves, and felt 
ground again with my feet. I stood still a few mo- 
ments to recover breath, and till the water went 
from me, and then took to my heels, and run with 
what strength I had farther towards the shore. Bat 
neither would this deliver me from the 'fury of the 
sea, which came pouring in afler ^ again ; and 
twice more I was lifted up by the waves, and car- 
ried forwards as before, the shore being very flat. 

The last time of these t^^ ^ad well near been 
fatal to me; for the sea having hurried me alonfr 
as before, landed me, or rather dashed me agaiueC 
a piece of a rock, and that with such force, as it 



THE K;JV/ V.rsK 

PUBLIC LIBRARY. 1 



i^v'il.OP, I K.^OX AND 



k,. 



I reiolTed to bold fait b; a piece of (he rock, and to 
ti bald mj breatb, if posiible, till the wave iT«at back. 
Tot. I. PageTf. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 71 

left me senseless, and indeed helpless, as to my 
own deliverance ; for the blow taking my side and 
breast, beat the breath as it were quite out of my 
body ; and, had it returned again immediately, I 
must have been strangled in the water ; but I re« 
covered a little before the return of the veaves, and 
seeing I should be covered again with the water, I 
resolved to hold fast by a piece of the rock, and so 
to hold my breath, if posi^Jble, tillthe wave went 
back. Now, as the waves were not so Jiigh as^t 
first, being near land, I hekl my hold till the wave 
abated, and then fetched another run, which brought 
me so near the shore, that the next wave, though 
it went over me, yet did not so swallow me up as 
to carry me away; and the next run I took I got 
to the main land, where, to my great comfort, I 
clambered up the clifts of the shore, and sat me 
down upon the grass, free from danger, and quite 
out of the reach of the water. 

I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began 
to look up and thank God that my life was saved 
in a case wherein there was, some minutes before, 
scarce any room to hope. I believe it is impossible 
to express to the life what the ecstasies and trans- 
ports of the soul are, when it is so saved, ^as 1 may 
say. Out of the very grave; and I do not wonder, 
now, at that custom, viz. that when a malefactor, 

vvho has the halter about his neck» is tied up, and 
I 



78 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

just going to foe turned ofi^ and has a reprieve 
brought to him : I say> I do not wonder that they 
bring a surgeon with it, to let him blood that very 
moment they tell him of it, that the surprise may 
not drive the animal spirits from the hearty and 
overwhelm him : 

For sadden joys, like griefs, confound at first. 

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands 
and my whole being, as I may say, wrapt up in the 
contemplation of my deliverance, making a thou- 
sand gestures and motions which I cannot describe; 
reflecting upon all my comrades that were drown- 
ed, and that there should not be one soul saved but 
myself; for, as for them, I never saw them after- 
wards, or any sign of them, except three of their 
hats, one cap, and two shoes, that were not fel- 
lows. 

I ca»t my eyes to the stranded vessel, when, the 
breach and froth of the sea being so big, I could 
baldly see it, it lay so far off, and considered. Lord ! 
how was it possible I could get on shore ! 

After I had solaced my mind with the comfort- 
able part of my condition, I began to look round 
me, to see what kind of place I was in, and what 
u'as next to be done ; and I soon found my com- 
forts abate, and that, in a word, I had a dreadful 
deliverance : for I was wet, had no clothes to shift 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 73 

me, nor any thing either to eat or drink to com- 
fort me ; neither did I see any prospect before ine, 
but that of perishing with hunger, or beiug devour- 
ed by wild beasts ; and that, which was particularly 
afflicting to me, was, that I had no weapon either 
to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, 
or to defend myself against any other creature 
that might desire to kill me for theirs : in a word, 
I had nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco- 
pipe, and a little tobacco in a box; this was all my 
provision, and this threw me into terrible agonies 
of mind, that, for a while, I run about like a mad- 
man. Night coming upon me, I began, with a 
heavy heart, to consider what would be my lot 
if there were any ravenous beasts in that country, 
seeing at night they always come abroad for their 
prey. 

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at 
that time, was, to get up into a thick bushy tree 
like a fir, but thorny, which grew near me, and 
where I resolved to sit all night, and consider the 
next day what death I should die, for, as yet, I saw 
no prospect of life. I walked about a furlong from 
the shore, to see if I could find any fresh water to 
drink, which I did, to my great joy; and having 
drank, and put a little tobacco in my mouth to 
prevent hunger, I went to the tree, and getting up 
into it, endeavoured to place myself so, as that if I 



74 THE LIFE AND ADtENTURES 

should sleep I might not fall ; and having cut me 
a short stick, like a truncheon, for my defence, I 
took up my lodging, and, having been excessively 
fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as comfortably 
as, I believe, few could have done in my condition, 
and found myself the most refreshed with it that I 
think I ever was on such an occasion. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. W 



CHAP. IV. 

Appearance of the Wreck tmd CoutUry next day^m 
Swim on board of the Ship, and, by means of a 
contrivance, get a quantity of Stores on shore-^-^Shooi 
a bird, but it turns ona perfect carrion-^Moraiize 
upon my situation^^The Sfdp bhum offhand, and 
totally lost'-^Set out in search of a proper place for 
a haMtatioip^^ee numbers of Goast-^^Melanchofy 
reflections, 

!/▼ HEM I waked it was broad day> the weather 
clear, and the storm abated, so that the sea did not 
rage and swell as before : but that which surprised 
me most, wasi that the ship was lifted off in the 
night from the sand where she lay, by the swelling 
of the tide, and was driven up almost as far as the 
rock which I first mentioned, where I had been so 
bruised by the dashing me against it ; this being 
within about a mile from the shore where I was^ 
^nd the ship seeming to stand upright sUll, I wisli-» 



*r4( THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ed myself on board, that, at least, I might save 
some necessary things for my use. 

When I came down from my apartment in the 
tree, I looked about me again, and the first thing I 
found was the boat, which lay as the wind and the 
sea had tossed her up upon the land, about two 
miles on m}' right band. T walked as far as I could 
upon the shore to have got to her, but found a neck, 
or inlet of water, between me and the boat, which 
was about half a mile broad ; so I came back for 
the present, being more intent upon getting at the 
ship, where I hoped to find something for my pre- 
sent subsistence. 

A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and 
the tide ebbed so far out, that I could come within 
a quarter of a mile of the ship ; and here I found 
a fresh renewing of my grief: for I saw evidently, 
that if we had kept on board, we had been all safe, 
that is to say, we had all got safe on shore, and I 
had not been so miserable as to be left entirely des- 
titute of all comfort and company, as I now was. 
This forced tears from my eyes again ; but as 
there was little relief in that, I resolved, if possible, 
to get to the ship ; so I pulled off my clothes, for 
the weather was hot to extremity, and took the 
water; but when I came to the ship, my difficulty 
W^s still greater to know how to get on board; for 
as she lay aground, and high out of the wjiter. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. U 

there was uothing withlii my reach to lay hold of. 
I swam round her twice, aad the second time I 
spied a small piece of a rope, which I wondered I 
did not see at first, hang down by the fore-chains 
so low as that with great difficulty I got hold of it, 
and> by the help of that rope, got up into the fore- 
castle of the ship. Here I found that the ship was 
bulged, and had a great deal of water in her hold, 
but that she lay so on the side of a bank of bard 
sand, or rather earth, and her stern lay lifted up 
upon the bank, and her head low almost to the 
water : by this means all her quarter was free, and 
all that was in that part was dry ; for you may be 
sure my first work was to search and to see whaifc 
was spoiled, and what was free : and first I found 
that all the ship's provisions were dry and ui>- 
touched by the water ; and being very well dispo- 
sed to eat, I went to the bread-room and filled vsLf 
pockets with biscuit, and ate it as I went about 
other things, for I had no time to lose. I also found 
some rum in the great cabin, of which I took a large 
dram, and which I had indeed need enough of to 
spirit me for what was before me. Now I wanted 
nothing but a boat to furnish myself with many 
things which I foresaw would be very necessary to 
me. 

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was 
not to be had ; and this extremity roused my ap* 



78 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

plication. We had several spare yards, and two or 
three large span of wood, aod a spare topmast or 
two in the ship ; I resolred to fall to work with 
these, and flung as maily of them overboard as I 
could manage of their weight, tying every one. 
with a rope, that they might not drive away.^ When 
this was done I went down to the ship's side, and, 
pulling them to me, I tied four of them £ast toge- 
ther at both ends as well as 1 could, in the form of 
a raft, and, laying two or three short pieces of 
plank upon them crossways, I found I could walk 
upon it very well, but that it was not able to bear 
any great weight, the pieces being too light; so I 
went to work, and, with the carpenter's saw, I cut 
a spare U^mast into three lengths, and added them 
to my raft, with a great deal of labour and pains; 
but hope of furnishing myself with necessaries, en- 
couraged me to go beyond what I should have 
been able to have done upon another occasion. 

My raf^ was now strong enough to bear any rea- 
sonable weight; my next care was i^hat to load it 
with, and how to preserve what I laid upon it from 
the surf of the sea ; but I was not long considering 
this : I first laid all the planks or boards upon it 
that I could get, and having considered well what 
I most wanted, I first got three of the seamen's 
'Chests, which I had broken open and emptied, and 
lowered them down upon my rafl. The first of these 



r 
\ 

OF ROBINSON CRUSOB; 19 

I filled with provisions, viz. bread, rice, three Dutch 
cheeses, five pieces of dried goat's flesh, which we 
lived much upon, and a little remainder of European 
corn, which had been laid by for some fowls which 
we brought to sea with us, but the fowls were kit- . 
led. There had been some barley and wheat to- 
gether, but, to my great disappointment, I found af- 
terwards that the rats had eaten or spoiled it alL 
As for liquors, I found several cases of bottles b^ 
longing to our skipper, in which were some cordial 
waters, and in all above five or six gallons of rack: 
these I stowed by themselves, there being no need 
to put them into the chest, nor no room for theoL 
While I was doing this, I found the tide began to 
flow, though very calm, and I had the mortificatioa 
to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had 
left on shore upon the sand, swim away ; as for 
my breeches, which were only linen, and open- 
knee'd, I swam on board in them and my stock- 
ings : however^i this put me upon rummaging for 
clothes, of which I found enough, but took no more 
than I wanted for present use, for I had other 
things which my eye was more upon ; as, first, tools 
to work with on shore ; and it was after long search- 
ing that I found Qut the carpenter's chest, which 
was indeed a very useful prize to me, and much 
more valuable than a ship-loading of gold would 
have been 'at that time : I got it down to my raft^ 



80 THE LIFC AND ADVENTURES 

even whole as it was, without losing time to look 
into it, for I knew in general what it contained. 

My next care was for some ammunition and 
arms. There were two very good fowling-pieces 
in the great cabin, and two pistols : these I secu* 
red first, with some powder-horns, and a small bag 
of shot, and two old rusty swords. I knew there 
were three barrels of powder in the ship, but knew 
not where our gunner had stowed them ; but with 
much search I found them, two of them dry and 
good, the third had taken water ; those two I got 
to my raft, with the arms. And now I thought my- 
self pretty well freighted, and began to think how 
I should get to shore with them, having neither 
sailj^ oar, or rudder, and the least capful of wind 
would have overset all my navigation. 

I had three encouragements : 1 . A smooth, calm 
sea ; 2. The tide rising and setting in to the shore; 
3. What little wind there was blew me towards the 
land : and thus, having found two or 'three broken 
oars belonging to the boat, and besides the tools 
which were in the chest, I found two saws, an axe, 
and a hammer; and with this cargo I put to sea : 
for a mile, or thereabouts, my raft went very well, 
only that I found it drive a little distant from the 
place where I had landed before ; by which I per- 
ceived that there was some indraft of the water, 
and consequently I hoped to find some creek or 
12 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. «1 

riTcr there> which I migh€ make use of as a port 
to get to land wit^ nty cargo* 

As I imagined, so- it was : there appeared before 
me a litliLe opcoiiig of the land, and I found ti 
strong current of t^ tide set into it, so I guided my 
0ift as well as I could to keep in the middle of the 
stream ; but here I had like to have sufiSsred « se* 
oond sfaspwreck, whteb, if I had, I think verily 
iviodd hare broke my heart; for, knowing nothing 
of the coast, my raift run aground at one end of it 
upon a dtoal, aujd, not being agronnd at the other 
ciod, it wanted but a little that all my cargo had 
stipped off towlKrds that end that was afloat, and so 
iidlen into the water. I did my utmost, by setting 
my beck against the dbests, to keep them in their 
piaces, but could not thrust off the raft with all my 
strength ; neither durst I stir from the posture I 
was in, bat, holding op the chests with all my 
mtgfaty stood in that manner near half an hotu*, in 
winch time the rismg of the water brought me a 
little more upon a lerel ; and, a little after, the wa- 
ter still rising, my raft ftoaied again, and I thrust 
her off with the oar I had into the channel ; and 
then, driving up higher, I at length found myself in 
the mouth of a little river, with land on both sides, 
and a strong current, or tide, running up. I looked 
on both sides for a proper place to get to shore ; 
for I was not wiUing to be driven too high up the 

VOL. I, F 



82 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

rirer, hoping. Id timej to see some ship at sea> and 
therefore resolved to place myself as near the coast 
as I could. 

At length I spied k little cotc on the right shore 
of the creek« to which, with great pain and difficul- 
ty» I guided my raft, and at last got so near, as that» 
reaching ground with my oari I could thrust her di- 
rectly in ; but here I had like to have dipped all 
my cargo in the sea again ; for that shore lying 
pretty steep^ that is to say, sloping, there was no 
place to land, but where one end of the float, if it 
run on shore, would lie so high, and the other sink 
lower as before, that it would endanger my cargo 
again : all that I could do, was to wait till the tide 
was at the highest, keeping the raft with my oar 
like an anchor to hold the side of it fast to the 
shore, near a flat piece of ground, which I expect- 
ed the water would flow over ; and so it did« As 
soon as I found water enough, for my raft drew 
about a foot of water, I thrust her on upon that flat 
piece of ground,* and there fastened or moored her, 
by sticking my two broken oars into the ground; 
one on one side near one end, and one on the other 
side near the other end ; and thus I lay till the wa** 
ter ebbed away, and left my raft and all my cargo 
safe on shore. 

My next work was to view the country, and seek 
a proper place for my habitation, and where to stow 



OF ROBINSON CRTOOB. 9 

my goods, to secure them fiy)in whatever might 
happen. Where I was> I yet knew not ; whether 
on the continent 6r on an island, whether inhabited 
or not inhabited, whether in danger of wild beasts 
or not. There was a hill, not abore a mile from 
me, which rose np very steep and Ingh, and which 
seemed to overtop some other hills which lay as in 
a ridge from it northward : I took out one of the 
fbwling<-pieces» and one of the pistols, and an horn 
of powder ; and thn^ aitaed, I travelled for discovery 
np to the top of that bill; where, after I had with 
great labour and difficulty got to the top, I saw my 
fate to my great affliction, viZb that I was- in an 
idand environed every way with the sea, no land 
to be seen, except some rocks which lay a great 
way ofi^ and two small islands less than this, which 
lay about three leagues to the west. 

I found also, that the island i was in was barren, 
and, as i saw good reason to believe, uninhabited, 
except by wild beasts, of which, however, I saw 
none ; yet I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not 
their kinds ; neither, when I killed them, could I 
tell what was fit for food, and what not At my 
coming back, I shot at a great bird, which I saw 
sitting upon a tree on the side of a great wood— >I 
believe it was the first gun that had been fired there 
since the creation of the world. I had no sooner 
fired, but, from all parts of the wood, there arose »» 



B4 THB UF£ AK0 AOTBNTURES 

inniunerable number of fowls of many sorts^ ma« 
ki^g a confiued screaming, and cxytng ev^ry one 
accordiag to his usual note ; but not one of them 
of any kind that I knew. As for the creatuve I 
killed, I to<ik it to be a kind of a hawk, its ookmr 
and beak resembKag it, but had no talons or claws 
iBore than omnmon ; its flesh was carrion, and fit 
for nothing. 

Contented with this diacoTery, I came back to 
my raft^ and fell to work to bifeg my cargo oo 
shore, which took me up the rest of that day ; and 
what to do with myself at night Iknewnot, nor in- 
deed where to rest; for I was afrsud to He down on 
the ground, not knowing but some wild beast might 
detour me ; though, as I afterwards found, there 
was really no need for those fears. •« 

However, as well as I could, I barricadoed my« 
self round wkh the diesis and boards that I had 
brought on shore, .and made a kind of a hut for 
that night's . lodging. As for food, I yet saw not 
which way to suf)f)ly mj^self, accept that I had 
seen two or three cieatures like hares ran out of the 
wood where I shot the fowl. 

I now biegan to consider, that I might yet get a 
great many things out of the ship, whieh would be 
useftii4o me, and particularly some of the rigging 
and sails, and such other things as might come to 
land, and I resoWed to make another Toyage Qn 



OF ftOBtNSOK CRUSOE. 85 

board the Tesse]> if possible ; and as I knew that 
^e firat storm that blew nuist necessarily break her 
all in pieces^ I resolved to set all other things apart, 
till I got erery thing out of the ship that I conkl 
get Then I called a council^ (that is to say, in my 
thoughts,) whether I should take back the raft; but 
this appeared impracticable : so I resolved to go as 
before, when the tide was down, and I did so, only 
that I stripped before I went firom my hat, having 
notimig on but a checked shirt and a pair of linen 
trowsers, and a pair of pumps on my feet, 

I got on board the Bhip, as before, and prepared 
a second raffc; and having had experience of the 
first, I neither made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it 
so hard, but yet I brought away several things very 
useful to me ; as first, in the carpenter's stores, I 
found two or three bags full of nails and spikes, a 
great screw-jack, a dozen or two of hatchets, a^d^ 
above all, that most useful thing called a grindi^ 
stone : all these I secured, together with several 
things belonging to the gunner, particularly two or 
three iron-crows, and two bs^rels of mudcet^bidl^ts^ 
seven muskets, and another fowling«|iiece, v^th 
some small quantity of powder more; a large bag 
full of small shot> and a great roll of sheet lead { 
but this last was so heavy, I could not hoist it «p to 
get it Over the ship's sid^ 



M THE LIFE AND ADVENTVRES 

Besides these things^ I took aU the men's clothen 
that I could find, and a spare fore-topsail, hammock, 
and some bedding ; and with this I loaded my se* 
cend rafty and brought them all safe on shore, to 
my very great comfort 

I was under some apprehensions* during my ab- 
sence from the land, that at least my provisions 
might be devoured on shore ; but, when I came 
back, I found no sign of any visitor, only there sat 
a creature, like a wild cat» upon one of the chests, 
which, when I came towards it, ran away a little 
distance, and then stood 3till ; -she sat very compo- 
sed and unconcerned, and looked full in my face, 
as if she had a mind to be acquainted with me ; I 
presented my gun at her, but as she did not under- 
stand it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor 
did she offer to stir away ; upon which I tossed her 
a bit of biscuit, though, by the way, I was not yery 
free of it, for my store was. not great : however, I 
/spared her a bit, I say, and she went to it, smelled 
of it> and ate it, ai^d looked, as pleased^ for more ; 
but I thanked her, and could spare no more ; so 
she marched off. 

Haying got my second cargo on shore, though I 
was fain to open the barrels of powder, and bring 
them by parcels, for they were too heavy, being 
large casks, I went to wm'k to make me a little 
tent, with the sail and some poles which I cut for 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 8T 

that purpose ; and into this tent I brought every- 
thing that I knew would spoils either' with rain or 
sun ; and I piled all the empty chests and casks up 
in a circle round the tent, to fortify it from any 
sudden attempt, either from man or beast. 

When I had done this, I blocked up the door of 
the tent with some boards within, and an empty 
chest set up an end without, and, spreading one of 
the beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols just 
at my head, and my gun at length by me, I went 
to bed for the first time, and slept very quietly all 
night, for I was very weary and heavy; as the 
night before I had slept little, and had laboured 
very hard all day, as well to fetch all those things 
from the ship, as to get them on shore. 

I had the biggest magazine of all khids aow that 
ever were laid up, I believe, for one man ; but I 
was not satisfied still ; for, while the ship sat up- 
right in that posture, I thought I ought to get every 
thing out of her that I could : so every day, at low 
water, I went on board, and brought away some* 
thing or other ; but particularly the third time I 
wenty I brought away as much of the rigging as I 
could, as also all the small ropes and rope-twine I 
could gejty with a piece of spare canvas, which was 
to mend the sails upon occasion, and the barrel of 
wet gunpowder : in a word, I brought away all the 
saib first and Isiai, oQly that I was fain to cut them*^ 



88 THE LIFB AND ADTSKTUllES 

in pieces, and bring as much at a time as I oonld ; 
for tiiey were no more, usefol to be sails, bnt as 
mere canras only. 

But that which comforted me more still, waa^ 
that at last of all, after I had'Ssade five or six such 
voyages as these, and thought I had nothing more 
to expect from the ship that was worth my med- 
dling with ; I say, after all this, I foond a great 
hogshead of bread, and three large runlets of rum 
or spirits, and a box of sogar, and a barrel of fine 
flour; this was surprising to me, because I had 
given over expecting any more provisions, except 
what was spoiled by the water : I soon emptied the 
hogshead of that bread, and wrapped it up, parcel 
by parcel, in pieces of the sails, which I cut out : 
and, in a word, 1 got all this safe on shmre also. 

The next day I made another voyage; and now, 
having plundered the ship of what was portable and 
fit to hand out, I began with the cables ; and cutting 
the gseat cable into pieces, such as I could move» I 
got two cables and a hawser on shore, with all the 
iron-work I could get; and having cut down the 
spnt^ail-yard, and the mizen-yard, and every thing 
I could to make a large raft, I loaded it with all 
those heavy goods, and came aiwity : but my good 
luck began now to leave me; for this raft was so 
unwieldy and so ov^laden, that, after I had enter- 
ed the little cave^ where I had landed the rest of 



OF ROBIHSON CRU80B. 60 

my goodny not.being able to gaide it so handily as 
I did the other, it ovenety and threw me and all my 
cai^ into the water. As for myself, it was no great 
harm, for I was near the shore ; bat as to my caf* 
go, it was great part of it lost^ especially the iron, 
which I eicpected would have been of great use to 
me : howerer, when the tide was out, I got most of 
the pieces of cable ashore, and some of the iron, 
though with infinite labour; for I was fain to dip for 
it into the water; a work w^ich fatigued me very 
much. Afker this, I went every day on board, and 
brought away what I could get. 

1 had been now thirteen days on shore, and had 
been eleven times on board the ship; in which 
time I had brought away all that one pair of hands 
could well be suppo^sd capable to bring, though I 
believe verily, had the calm weather held, I should 
have brought away the whole ship, piece by piece : 
but, preparing the twelfth time to go on board, I 
found the wind began to rise; however, at low wa- 
ter I went on board, and though I thought I had 
rummaged the cabin so efiectually, as that nothing 
more could be found, yet I discovered a locker with 
drawers in it, in one of which I found two or three 
razonn^ and one pair of large scissars, with^me ten 
or a dozen of good knives and forks ; in another I 
found about thirty-six pounds value in money, some 



00 TH£ LIFE AND ADVBNTUAES 

European coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight, 
some gold» some silver. 

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. — 
*' O drug I" said I, aloud, '' what art thou good 
for } thou art not w<Mrth to me, no not the taking 
off of the ground ; one of those knives is worth all 
this heap; I have no manner of use for thee; even 
remain where thou art, and go to the bottom, as a 
creature whose life is not worth saving/' However, 
upon second thoughts, I took it away, and/ wrap- 
ping all this in a piece of canvas, I began to think 
of making another raft; but, while I was preparing 
this, J found .the sky overcast, and the wind began 
lo rise, and in a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh 
gale from the shore. It presently occurred to me, 
that it was in vain to pretend to make a raft with 
the wind off shore, and that it was my business to 
be gone before the tide of flood began, otherwise I 
might not be able to reach the shore at all : accord- 
ingly, I let myself down into the water, and^wam 
cross the channel which lay between the ship and 
the sands, and even that with difficulty enough, 
partly with the weight of things I had about me, 
and partly the roughne£is of the water, for the wind 
rose very hastily, and, be^re it was quite high wa- 
ter> it blew a storm. 

Put I was gottei^ ho|ne to my little tent, wherQ I 
lay with all my wealth about me very secure. It 



OF ROBIKSOK CRUSOB. 01 

blew very hard all that nighty and in the morning; 
when I Inoked out, behold, no more ship was to be 
seen ! I was a little surprised, but recovered myself 
with this satisfiactory reflection, viz. that I had lost 
no tune, nor abated no diligence, to get every thing 
out of her that could be useful to me, and that in-> 
deed there was little left m her that I was able tor 
bring away, if I had had more time. 

I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, 
or of any thing out of her, except what might drive 
on shore from her wreck, as indeed divers pieces of 
her afterwards did ; but those things were of small 
use to me. 

My thoughts were now wholly employed about 
securing myself against either savages, if any 
should appear, or wild beasts, if any were in the 
island ; and I had many thoughts of the method 
how to do this, and what kind of dwelling to 
make ; whether I should make me a cave in the- 
earth, ««r a tent upon the earth: and, in short, I 
lesolved upon both, the manner and description of 
which it may not be improper to give an account 
of. 

I soon found the place I was in was not for my 
settlement, particularly because it was upon a low 
moorish ground near the sea, and I believed would 
BQt be wholesome, and more particularly because 
there was no fresh water near it; so I resolved to 



98 THB UF£ AND ADTSNTURES 

find a more healthy and more convenient spot of 
ground. 

I consolted sereral things in my situation whicb 
I found woidd be pn^r for roe : l8t» Health, and 
freshwater I just now mentioned. 2dly, Shelter 
from the heat of the sun. Sdly, Security from* 
xayenous creatures, whether man or beast 4thly, 
A yiew to the sea, that, if God sent any ship in 
fight, I might not lose any adyantage for my de- 
liyexance, of which I was not willing to banish all 
my expectation yet 

In search of a fdace proper for this, I found a 
little plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front 
towards this little plain was steep as a house-side, 
so that nothing could oome down upon me from 
the top : on the side of this rock there was a hoi* 
low place worn a little way in, like the entrance or 
door of a cave, but there was not really any cave 
or way into ite rack at all. 

On the flat of the green, just before thiv hollow 
|>laoe, I resolved to pitch my tent : this plain was 
not above an hundred yards broad, and about twice 
as long, and lay like a green before my door, and 
at the end of it descttided irregularly every veay 
down into the low grounds by the sea^side. It was 
on the north-nortb*weBt side of the hill, so that I 
was sheltered from the heat every day, till it came 



OF R4>BMsaN tRUSOB. 93 

to a west and hy aoath nxm, or tliereabouls, whiclf 
in those eouatries k near tbe setting; 

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-circle 
before the hollow place> whidi took in about ten 
yards in- its semi-diameteF fh>m the rocl^ and 
twenty yards in its diameter, fhmi its beginning 
aad ending. 

In thia half-drde I pitched two rows of strong 
•lakes, driTibg them into the grotmd till they stood 
rery firm, liloe piles, the biggest end being out of 
the ground about five foot and a half, and sharp- 
ened on the top : the two rows did not stand abor^ 
six inches from one another. 

Then T took the pieces of cable which I had cut 
in the ship, and laid them in rows one upon ano- 
ther, within the circle between these two rows of 
stakes, up to the top, placing other stakes in the 
inside, leaning against them, about two foot and 
a lialf high, like a spur to a post; and this fence 
was so strong, that neither man or beast could 
get into it, or over it : this cost me a great deal of 
time and labour, especially to cut the piles in A6 
woods, bring them to the place, and drive them 
mto the earth. 

The entrance into this place I made to be not by 
a door, but by a short ladder, to go over the top : 
which ladder, when I was ini I lifted over after me : 
and so I wa» completely fenced in, and fortified. 



94 TH9 LIFE AND ADTBNTUEES 

as I tliought> from all the world, and conaequeatly 
slept secure in the nigh^ which otherwise I could 
not have done^ though, as it appeased ,afterward, 
there was no need of all this caution fiom the 
enemies that I apprehended danger from. 

Into this fence or fortress, with infinite labour, 
I carried all my riches, all my provisions, ammu- 
nition, and storey of which you haVe the account 
above; and I made me a large tent, which, to 
preserve me from the rains, that in one part of the 
year are very violent there, I made double, viz, 
one smaller tent withm, and one larger tient above 
it, and covered the uppenqost with a large tarpaulin^ 
which I had saved among the sails^ 

And now I lay no more for a while in the bed 
which I had brought on shore, but in a hammock, 
which was indeed a very good one, and belonged 
to the mate of the ship. 

Lito this tent I brought all my provisions, and 
every thing that would spoil by the wet; and ha- 
ving thus enclosed all my goods, I made up the 
* entrance, which till now I had left open, and so 
passed and repassed, as I said, by a short ladder. 

When I had done this, I began to work my way 
into the rock, and bringing all the earth and stones 
that I dog down, out through my tent, I laid them 
up within my fence in the nature of a terrace, 
that so it raised the ground within about a|fQ<il 



•' ^i 



OF ROBTKSON CRUSOE, 05 

and a half; and thus I made me a cave just be- 
hind ray tent, which served me like a cellar to my* 
house. 

It cost me much labour, and many days, before 
all these things were brought to perfection ; and 
therefore I must go back to some other things, 
which took up somd of my thoughts. ' At the same 
time it happened, after I had laid my scheme for 
the setting up my tent, and making the cave, that 
a storm of raut falling from a thick dark cloud, a 
sudden flash of lightning happened, and after that 
a great clap of thunder, as is naturally the effect 
of it I was not so much surprised with the light- 
ning, as I was with a thought which darted into my 
mind as swifb as the lightning itself : O my pow- 
der ! my very heart sunk within me, when I thought, 
that at one blast all my powder might be- destroy- 
ed : on which, not my defence only, but the pro- 
viding me food, as I thought, entirely depended : I 
was nothing near so anxious about my own danger; 
though, had the powder took fire, I had never known 
who had hurt me. 

Such impression did this make upon me, that, af- 
ter the storm was over, I laid aside all my works, 
my building, and fortifying, and applied myself to 
make bags and boxes to separate the powder, and^ 
to keep it a little and a little in a parcel, in hope, 
Ihatt, whatever might come, it might not all take 



00 TH^ LIFE AND ADYBKTUIES 

fife at once, and to keep it to apait, that it should 
not be poBsible to make one part fire another. I fi- 
nished this work in about a fortnight; and I think 
my powder, which in all was about two hundred 
and forty pounds weight* was divided in not less 
than a hundred parcels. As to the barrel that had 
been wet» I did not appiehend any danger from 
thaty so I placed it in my new caye, which, in my 
fancy, I called my kitchen ; and the rest I hid up 
and down in holes among the rocks, so that no 
wet might come to it, marking very carefcdiy where 

1 laid it. 

In the interval of time while this was doing, I 
went out once at leM every day with my gun, as 
well to divert myself, as to see if I coold kill any 
thing fit for food, and a» near as I could to acquaint 
myself with what the island produced The first 
time i went out, I presently discovered that there 
were goats in the island, which was a great satis-> 
fisbction to me ; but then it was attended with this 
misfortune to me, viz. that they were so shy, so 
subtle, and so swift of foot, that it was the most dif- 
ficult thing in the world to come at them* But I 
was not discouraged at this, not donbting but I 
might now and then shoot one, as it soon happen- 
ed ; for, after I had found their haunts a Httie, 1 laid 
wait in this manner for them : 1 observed, if they 

saw me in the vaUiea^ though they were upon the 
8 



OF ROBINSON CRTTSOE. 97 

rocks^ they would run away as in a terrible fnght; 
hut if they were feeding in the Tallies, and I was 
upon the rocks, they took no notice of me ; from 
whence I concluded, that, by the position of their 
optics, their sight was so directed downward, Uiat 
they did not readily see objects that were above 
them : so afterward I took this method ; I always 
climbed the rocks first, to get above them, and then 
had frequently a fair mark. The first shot I made 
among these creatures I killed a she-goat, which 
had a little kid by her which she gave suck to, 
which grieved me heartily ; but when the old one 
fell, the kid stood stock still by her till I came and 
took her up ; and not only so, but, when I carried 
the old one with me upon my shoulders, the kid 
followed me quite to my inclosure ; upon which I 
laid down the dam, and took the kid in my arms, 
and carried it over my pale, in hopes to- have bred 
it up tame ; but it would not eat ; so I was forced 
to kill it, and eat it myself. These two supplied me 
with flesh a great while, for I ate sparingly, and sa- 
ved my provisions (my bread especially) as much 
as possibly I could, 

. Having now fixed my habitation, I found it ab* 
solutely necessary to provide a place to make a' fire 
in, and fuel to burn ; and what I did for that, as al- 
eo how I enlarged my cave, and what conveniences 
I made, I shall give a full account of in its place ; 

VOL, h G 



98 THE LIFE AND ADTENTURES 

but I most fint git« some little acconnt of myself; 
and of my thoaghts aboat livingy which, it may well 
be supposed, were not a few. 

I had a dismal prospect of my condition ; for as 
I was not cast away upon that island without being 
driven, as is said, by a violent storm, quite out of 
the course of our intended voyage, and a great way, 
viz. some hundreds of leagues out of the ordinary 
course of the trade of mankind, I had great reason 
to consider it as a determination of Heaven, that, in 
thb desolate place, and in this desolate manner, I 
should end my life. The tears would run plentiful- 
ly down my face when I made these reflections; 
and sometimes I would expostulate with myself, 
why Providence should thus completely ruin his 
creatures, and render them so absohitely miserable, 
so without help abandoned, so entirely depressed, 
that it could hardly be rafttonal to be thankful for 
soch a life. 

But something always returned iiwift iip<tai roe to 
check these thoughts^ and to reprove me \ and par- 
ticularty one day, walking with my gun in my 
hand by the sea-side, I was very pensive upon the 
subject of my present condition, when reason, as it 
were, expostulating with me the other way, thus : 
** Well, you are in a descdate condition, it is true ; 
but pray remember, wh^re are the rest of you \ 
Did not you come eleven of you into the boat ? 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. 00 

Where are the ten ? Why were they not saved^ add 
you lost ? Why were you singled out ? Is it better 
to be here or there }" And then I pointed to the 
sea* All evils are to be considered with the good 
that is in theni^ and with what worse attended 
them. 

Then it occurred to me again, how well I was 
furnished for my subsistence, and what would haTe 
been my case if it had not happened, which Was 
an hundred thousand to one, that the ship floated 
from the place where she first strock, and was dri- 
ven so near the shore, that I had time to get all 
these things ontof her. What would have been my 
case, if I had been to hare lived in the condition 
in which I at first came on shore, without necessa- 
ries of life, or necessaries to supply and procure 
^em ? ^ particularly,^' said I, (loud, fliough to my- 
self,) ^ what shotfld I have done without a gun, 
without ammunition, without any tools to make any 
thing, or to work i^ith ; wiUHxit clothes, beddings a 
tent, or any manner of covering }" and that now I 
had all these to a sufficient quanjbity, and was in a 
fair way to provide m3rself in such a manner, bm to 
live without my gun when my ammunition was 
spent ; so that I had a toler2d>]e view of subsisting, 
without any want, as long as I lived ; for I consi- 
dered from the beginning, how i should prfvide far 
Itie accidents that might happen, and for the time 



758892 A 



100 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

that was to come, even not only after my ammunw • 
tion should be spentj but even after my health or 
strength should dec^y. 

I confess I had not entertained any notion of my 
ammunition being destroyed at one blast, I mean 
my powder being blown up by lightning ; and this 
made the thoughts of it so surprising to me when it 
lightened and thundered, as I observed just now. 

And now, being about to enter into a melancho- 
ly relation of a scene of silent life, such perhaps as 
was never heard of in the world before, I shall take 
it. from its beginning, and continue it in its order. 
It was, by my account, the SOth of September, 
when, in the manner as above said, I first set. foot 
upon this horrid island, when the sun being, to 
us, in its autumnal equinox, was almost just over 
my head ; for I reckoned myself, by observation, 
to be in the latitude of 9 degrees .22 minutes north 
of the Line. 

After I had been there about ten or twelve dayii, 
it came into my thoughts, that I should lose my 
reckoning of time for want of books, and pen and 
ink, and should even forget the sabbath days fropi 
the working days ; but, to prevent this, I cut it 
with lay knife upon a large post, in capital letterai, 
and making it into a great cross^ I set it up on the 
shore where I first landed, viz. *' I came on shore 
here on the SOth of September, 1659/' Upon thi^ 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 101 

Bides of thii( square post, I cut every day a notch 
with my knife, and every seventh notch was as 
long again as the rest, and every first day of the 
month as long again as that long one ; and thus I 
kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly, and yearly 
reckoning of time. 

In the next place, we are to ohserve, that, among 
the many things which I brought out of the ship in 
the fieveral voyages, which, as above mentioned, I 
made to it, Ig ot several things of less value, but 
not all less useful to me, which I omitted setting 
down before; as, in particular, pens, ink, and pa^ 
per, several parcels in the captain's, mate's, gun- 
ner's, and carpenter's keeping, three or four com- 
passes, some mathematical instruments, dials, per- 
spectives, charts, and books of navigation ; all which 
I huddled together, whether 1 might want them or 
no. Also, I found three very good Bibles, which 
came to me in my x:argo from England, and which 
I had packed up among my things.; some Portu- 
guese books also, and among them two or three po- 
pish prayer-books, and several other books; all 
which I carefully secured. And I must not forget, 
that we had in the ship a dog and two cats, of 
whose eminent history I may have occasion to say 
something in its place ; for I carried both the cats 
with me ; and as for the dog, he jumped out of the 
ship of himself, and swa^i on shore to me the day 
after I went on shore with my first cargo, and was a 



120 THE LIFB AND ADVENTURES 

trusty servant to me many yean; I wanted nothing 
that he could fetch me> nor any company that he 
could make up to me; I only wanted to have him 
talk to me, but that he could not do. As I observed 
before, I found pen> ink, and paper, and I husband- 
ed them to the utmost; and I shall shew, that 
while my ink lasted, I kept things very exact; but 
after that was gone I could not, for I could not 
make any ink by any means that I could devise. 

And this put me in mind that I wanted many 
things, notwithstanding all that I had amassed to- 
gether ; and of these, this of ink was one, as also 
spade, pickaxe, and shoyel, to dig or remove the 
earth ; needles, pins, and thread* As for linen, 
I soon learnt to want that without much difficulty. 

This want of tools made every work I did go on 
heavily, and it was near a whole year before I had 
entirely finished my little pale, or surrounded habi- 
tation : the piles, or stakes, which were as heavy as 
I could well lift, were a long time in cutting and 
preparing in the woods, and mwe by far in bring- 
ing home; so that I spent sometimes two days in 
cutting and bringing home one of those posts; and 
a third day in driving it into the ground ; for which 
purpose I got a heavy piece of wood at first, but at 
last bethought myself of one of the iron crows, 
which, however, though I found it, yet it made dri- 
ving those posts, or piles, very laborious and tedi- 
ous work. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. lOS 

But what need I have been conceraed at the 
tediousness of any thing I had to do, seeing I had 
time enough to do it in ? Nor had I any other eni- 
ployment^ if that had been oyer, at least that I 
^ codid foresee^ except the ranging the island to seek 
for food, which I did more or less eyery day. 

I now began to consider seriously my condkion, 
and the circumstances I was reduced to> and I drew 
up the state of my affairs in writing, not so mnch 
to leave them to any that were to come after me, 
(for I was like to ha?e but few heirs,} as to deliver 
my thoughts from daily poring upon them, and af- 
flicting my mind ; and as my reason began now to 
master my despondency, I began to comfort myself 
as well as I could, and to set the good against the 
evil, that I might have something to distinguisli my 
case from worse ; and I stated it very impartially, 
like debtor and creditor, the comforts I enjoyed 
against the miseriet I sofifered, thus : 

EviL Good* 

I am cast upon a hor- But I am ali?e,and not 

rible desolate bland, void drowned, as all my ship's 

of all hope of recovery, company was. 

I an) singled out and But I am singled out 

separated, as it were, too from all the ship's 

from all the world, to be crew to be spared from 

miserable. death; and He that mura.- 



104 



TH£ LIF£ AND ADVENTURES 



En>il. 



I am divided from 
mankiad, a solitaire^ one 
banished from human 
society. 

I have not clothes to 
cover me* 



I am without any de- 
fence, or means to resist 
any violence of man or 
beast 



I have no soul to 
speak to, or relieve me. 



Good. 
culously saved me from 
deaths can deliver me 
from this condition. 

But I am not starved 
and perishing on a bar- 
ren place* affording no 
sustenance. 

But I am in a hot cli- 
mate, where, if I had 
clothes, I could hardly 
wear them. 

But I am cast on an 
island, where I see no 
wild beasts to hurt me, 
as I saw on the coast of 
Africa : and what if I 
had been shipwrecked 
there ? 

But God wonderfully 
sent the ship in near 
enough to the shore, that 
I have gotten out so 
many necessary things as 
will either supply my 
wQ^ts, or enable me to 
supply myself even a& 
)ong as I live. 



OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. 105 

" Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testi- 
mony^ that there was scarce any condition in the 
world so miserable^ but there was something ntga^ 
tivc or something positive to be thankful for in it ; 
and let this stand as a direction from the expe- 
rience of the most ml^rable of all conditions in 
this worlds that we may always find in it gome- 
thing to comfort ourselves from, and to set in the 
description of good and evil, on the credit side of 
the account 

Having now brought my mind a little to relish 
my condition, and given over looking out to sea, to 
see if I could spy a ship ; I say, giving over these 
things, I began to apply myself to accommodate 
my way of- living, and to make' things as easy to 
me as I could. 

I have already described my habitation, which 
was a tent, upder the side of a rock, surrounded with 
a strong pale of posts and cables ; but I might now 
rather call it a wall, for I raised a kind of wall up 
against it of turfs, alout two foot thick on the out- 
side; and afi:er some time, I think it was a year and 
half, I raised rafters from it, leaning to the rock» 
and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees, 
and such things as I could get to keep out the rain, 
which I found at some times of the year very vio* 
lent, 



106 THE hlFE AND ADVENTURES 

I have already observed how I brought all my 
goods into this pale, and into the cave which I had 
made behind me : but I must observe too, that at 
first this was a confused heap of goods, which as 
they lay in no order, so they took up all my place : 
I had no room to turn myself; iso I set myself to 
enlarge my cave and works farther into the earth ; 
for it was a loose sandy rock, which yielded easily 
to the labour I bestowed on it : and so when I 
found I was pretty safe as to beasts of prey, I work* 
ed sideways to the right hand into the rock ; and 
lhen> turning to the right again, worked quite onU 
and made me a door to come out, on the ootside of 
my pale, or fortification. 

This gave me not only egress and regress, as it 
were a back-way to my tent and to my storehouse, 
but gave me room to stow my goods. 

And now I began to apply myself to make audi 
necessary things as I found I most wanted, particu- 
larly a chair and a table ; for without these I was 
not able to enjoy the few comforts I had in the 
w<»rld ; I could not write or eat, or do several things 
with so much pleasure without a table. 

So I went to work ; and here I must needs ob- 
serve, that as reason is the substance and original 
of the mathematics, so, by stating and squaring 
every thing by reason, and by making the most ra^ 
tional judgment of things, every man may be in 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 107 

time master of eveiy mechanic art I had neyer 
handled a tool in my life, and yet in time, by la- 
bour, application, and contrivance, I found at last 
that I wanted nothing but I could have made it>ea« 
peciaUy if I had had tools ; however, I made abun- 
dance of things, even without tools, and some with 
no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which 
perhaps were never made that way before, and thai 
with infinite labour : for example, if I wanted a 
board, I had no other way but to cut down a trec^ 
set it on an edge before me, and hew it flat on ei- 
ther side with my axe, till I had brought it to be as 
thin as a plank, and then dub it smooth with my 
adze. It is true, by this method I could make but 
one board out of a whole tree ; but this I had no 
remedy for but patience any more than I had for 
the prodigious deal of time and labour which it took 
me up to make a plank or board : but my time or 
labour was little worth, and so it was as well em- 
ployed one way as another. 

However, I made me a table and a chair, as I ob» 
served above, in the first place ; and this t did out 
of the short pieces of boards that I brought on my 
raft from the ship : but when I had wrought out 
some boardi^ as above, I made large shelves of the 
breadUi of a foot and a half one over another, all 
along one side of my cave, to lay all my tools, naili^ 
and iron-work, and, in a word, to separate every 



108 THE LIFB AND ADVENTURES 

thiog at large in their places^ that I might come 
easily at them. I knocked pieces into the wall of 
the rock to hang my guns, and all things that Would 
hang up. 

So that, had my cave been to be seen, it looked 
like a general magazine of all necessary things ; and 
I had every thing so ready at my hand, that it was 
a great pleasure to me to see all my goods in such 
order, and especially to find my stock of all nec^ 
saries so great. 

And now it was that I began to keep a journal of 
every day's employment ; for indeed at first I wa^ 
in too much a hurry ; and not only hurry as to la- 
bour, but in too much discomposure of mind, and 
my journal would have been fiill of many dull 
things. For example, I must have said thus : Sept. 
the SOth, after I got to shore, and had escaped 
drowning, instead of being thankful to God for my 
deliverance, having first vomited with the great 
quantity of salt water which was gotten into my 
stomach, and, recovering myself a little, I r^n 
about the shore, wringing my hands, and beating 
my head and face, exclaiming at my misery, and 
crying out, " I was undone, undone V* till tired and 
faint, I was forced to lie down on the ground to re* 
pose, but durst not sleep for fear of being devour- 
ed. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. im 

Some days after this, and after I had been on 
t>oard the ship, and got all that I could out of her, 
yet I could not forbear getting up to the top of a 
little mountain, and looking out to sea in hopes of 
seeing a ship ; then fancy, at a vast distance, I spied 
a sail; please myself with the hopes of it; and 
then, after looking steadily till I was almost blind, 
lose it quite, and sit down and weep like a child, 
and thus increase my misery by my folly. 

But having gotten over these things in some mea* 
sure, and having settled my household-stuff and ha- 
bitation, made me a table and a chair, and all as 
handsome about me as I could, I began to keep my 
journal, of which I shall here give you the copy 
(though in it will be told all these particulars over 
again) as long as it lasted; for, having no more ink, 
I was forced to leave it ofE 



110 THB LIFE AND ADYBlfTURES 



CHAP. V. 

/ begin to keep a Jaumal'^Chruien my desam lAmd 
the Island of Detpair*-»-FaU vpon various schemes 
to make Tools, Baskets, i(c, and begin to huUd my 
Houso »"Ai a great hss <if an evening for Candle, 
but faU vpon an expedient to afpfy Ae wm w^ ' u * 
Strange discovery qfC of % 4 terrible Mar^iqmke, 
'and Storm. 

THE JOURNAL. 

September SO, 1659. 

i> POOR miserable Robinson Crasoe, being ship* 
wrecked, daring a dreadful storm in the offing, 
came on shore on this dismal unfortunate island, 
which I called the Island of Despair; all the rest 
of the ship's company being drowned, and myself 
almost dead. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. HI 

All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting my- 
self at the disinai circumstances I was brought to, 
Tiz. I had neither food, hoose, clothes, weapon, or 
place to fly to, and in despair of any relief^ saw no- 
thing but death before me, either that I should be 
devoured by wild beasts, murdered by savages, or 
starved to death for want of food* At the ap- 
proach of night I slept in a tree, for fear of wild 
creatures, but slept soundly, though it rained all 
night 

October 1. In the momiRg I salt, to my great 
surprise, the ship had floated with the high tide, 
and was driven on shore again much nearer the 
island ; which, as it was some comfort on one hand, 
for, seeing; her sit upright, and not broken to pieces, 
I hoped, if the wind abated, I might get on board, 
and get some food and necessaries out of her for 
my relief; so, on kbt dllier hand, it renewed my 
grief at the loss of my comrades, who, I imagined, 
if we had all staid 0k board) might have saved the 
ship, or at least that they would not have been all 
drowned, as diey were; and that, had the men 
been saved, we might perhaps have built us a boat 
oat of the ruins of the ship, to have carried us to 
some other part of the world. I spent great part 
of this day in perplexing myself on these things; 
but at length, seeing the ship almost dry, I went 
upon the sand as near as I could, and then swam on 



11« THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

board. This day also it continued raining, though 
with no wind at all. 

From the 1st of October to the 24th. All these 
days entirely spent in many several voyages to get 
all I could out of the ship^ which I brought on 
shore^ every tide of flood, upon rafts. Much rain 
also in these days, though with some intervals of 
fair weather : but, it seems, this was the rainy sea- 
son. 

Oct. 20. I overset my raft, and all the good I 
had got upon it; but being in shoal water, and the 
things being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of 
them when the tide was out. 

Oct. 25. It rained all night and all day, with 
tome gusts of wind ; during which time the ship 
broke in pieces, the wind blowing a little harder 
than before, and was no more to be seen, except 
the wreck of her, and that only at low water. I 
{Spent this day in covering and securing the goods 
which I had saved, that rain might not spoil them. 

Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost all 
day, to find out a place to fix my habitation, great- 
ly concerned to (Secure myself from any attack in 
the night, either from wild beasts or men. Towards 
night I fixed upon a proper place under a rock, and 
marked out a semicircle for my encampment, which 
I resolved to strengthen with a work^ wall, or foiti* 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. US 

location, made of doable piles, lined within with ca- 
ble, and without with turf. 

From the 26th to the 30th I worked very hard 
in carrying all my goods to my new habitation, 
though some part of the time it rained exceeding 
hard. . 

The SI St, in the morning, I went out into the 
island with my gun, to see for some food, and dis-^ 
cover the country; when I killed a she-goat, and 
her kid followed me home, which I afterwards kil- 
led also, because it would not feed. 

November 1. I set up my tent under a rock, 
and lay there for the first night, making it as large 
as I could, with stakes driven in to swing my ham- 
mock upon. 

Nov. 2. I set up all my chests and boards, and 
the pieces of timber which, made my rafts, and 
with them formed a fence round me, a little within 
the place I had marked out for my fortification. 

Nov. 3. I went out with my gun, and killed two 
fowls like ducks, which were very good food. In 
the afternoon went to work to make me a table. 

Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times 
of work; of going out with my gun, time of sleep, 
and time of diversion ; viz. every morning I walk- 
ed out with my gun for two or three hours, if it did 
not rain, then employed myself to work till about 
eleven o'clock, then ate what I had to live on, and 

VOL. J. H 



114 THE LIFE AND 'ADVENTURES 

from twelve to two I lay down to sleep* the weather 
being excessive hot* and then in the evening to 
work again : the working part of this day and of 
the next were wholly employed in making my 
table ; for I was yet bat a very sorry workman, 
though time and necessity made me a complete 
natural mechanic soon after, as I believe it would 
do any one else. 

Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my gun and 
my dog, and killed a wild cat; her skin pretty soft, 
but her flesh good for nothing : every creature I 
killed I took off the skins, and preserved them. — 
Coming back by the sea-shore, I saw many sorts of. 
searfowls, which I did not understand; but was sur- 
prised, and almost frighted, with two or three seals, 
which, while I was gazing at, not well knowing 
what they were, got into the sea» and escaped me 
for that time. 

Nov. 6. After my morning walk, I went to work 
with my table again, and finished it,' though not to 
my liking ; nor was it long before I learnt to mend 
it. 

Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled fair weather. 
The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th, (for 
the 11th was Sunday,] I took wholly up to make 
me a chair, and, with much ado, brought it to a to- 
lerable shape, but never to please me ; and .even in 
the making, I pulled it in pieces several times.—- 



OF IIOBINSON CRUSOE. 1 1S 

Note, I soon neglected my keeping Sundays ; for 
omitting my mark for them on my post, I forgot 
which was which. 

Not. 13. This day it rained, which refreshed me 
exceedingly, and cooled the earth; but it was ac- 
companied with terrible thnnder and lightning^ 
which frighted me dreadfully for fear of my pow- 
der : as soon as it was over, I resolved to separate 
my stock of powder into as many little parcels as 
possible, that it might not be in danger. 

Not. 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent in 
making little square chests or boxes, which might 
hold about a poudd, or two pound at most, of pow- 
der ; and so putting the powder in, 1 stowed it in 
places as secure and remote from one another as 
possible. On one of these three days I killed a 
large bird that was good to eat, but I knew not 
what to call it. 

Not. 17. This day I began to dig behind my 
tent into the rock, to make room for my farther 
conveniency. Note, Three things I wanted exceed- 
ingly for this work, Tiz. a pickaxe, a shoTel, and a 
wheelbarrow or basket ; so I desisted from my work, 
and began to consider how to supply that want* 
and make me some tools: as for a pickaxe, I 
made use of the iron-crows, which were proper 
enoogby though heaTy ; but the next thing was a 
shovel or spade^ this was so absolutely necessary. 



116 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

that indeed I could do nothing efiectually without 
it ; but what kind of one to make I knew not. 

Nov. 18. The next day in searching the woods, 
I found a tree of that wood, or like it, which in 
the Brazils they call the Iron Tree, for its exceed- 
ing hardness : of this, with great labour, and almost 
spoiling my axe, I cut a piece, and brought it home 
too with difficulty enough, for it was exceeding 
heavy. 

The excessive hardness of the wood, and having 
no other way, made me a long while upon this ma- 
chine ; for I worked it effectually by little and little 
into the form of a shovel or spade, the handle ex- 
actly shaped like ours in England, only that the 
broad part having no iron shod upon it at bottom, 
it would not last me so long ; however, it served 
well enough for the uses which I had occasion to 
put it to; but never was a shovel, I believe, made 
after that fashion, or so long a-making. 

I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket or a 
wheel-barrow ; a basket I could not make by any 
means, having no such things as twigs that would 
bend to make wicker-ware, at least none yet found 
out ; and as to a wheel-barrow, I fancied I could 
make all biit the wheel, but that I had no notion 
of, neither did I know how to go about it ; besides, 
I had no possible way to n^ake the iron gudgeons 
for the spindle, or axis of the wheel, to run in, so { 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* 111 

gave it OTer ; and so^ for carrying away the earth, 
which I dug out of the cave, I made me a thing 
like a hod, which the labourers carry mortar in, 
when they serve the bricklayers. 

This was not so difficult to me as the making the 
shovel ; and yet this, and the shovel, and the at* 
tempt which I made in vaia to make a wheelbar- 
row, took me up no less than four days, I mean al- 
ways excepting my morning walk with my gun, 
which I seldom failed ; and very seldom failed also 
bringing home something to eat. 

Nov, 23. My other work having now stood still, 
because of my making these tools, when they were 
finished I went on^ and working every day, as my 
strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen days 
entirely in widening and deepening my cave, that 
it might hold my goods commodiously. 

iVb^e, During all this time, I worked to make 
this room, or cave, spacious enough to accommo- 
date me as a warehouse or magazine, a kitchen, a 
dining-room, and a cellar: as for my lodging, I 
kept to the tent, except that sometimes in the wet 
season of the year, it rained so hard that I could 
not keep myself dry, which caused me afterwards 
to cover all my place within my pale with long 
poles in the form of rafters, leaning against the 
rock, and load them with flags and large leaves of 
trees like a thatch. 



118 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

December 10. I began now to think my cavr 
or vault finished, when on a sudden (it seems I had 
made it too large) a great quantity of earth fell 
down from the top and one side, so much, that, in 
short, it frighted me, and not without reason too;, 
lor if I had been under it, I had never wanted a 
gravedigger. Upon this disaster I had a great deal 
of work to do over again ; for I had the loose earth 
to carry out, and, which was of more importance, I 
had the ceiling to prop up, so that I might be sure 
no more would come down. 

Dec. 1 1. This day I went to work with it ac- 
cordingly, and got two shores, or posts, pitched up- 
right to the top, with two pieces of boards across- 
over each post; this I finished the next day; and 
setting more posts up with boards, in about a week 
more I had the roof secured ; and the posts, stand- 
ing in rows, served me for partitions to part off my 
house. 

Dec. 17. From this day to the twentieth I placed 
shelves, and knocked up nails on the posts to hang 
every thing up that could be hung up : and now I 
began to be in some order within doors. 

Dec. 20. Now I carried every thing into the 
cave, and began to fiimish my house, and set up 
some pieces of boards like a dresser, to order my 
victuals upon ; but boards began to be very scarct- 
with me : also I made me another table. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 110 

Dec. 24. Mach rain all night and all day ; no 
stirring out. 

Dec. 25. Rain all day. 

Dec. 26.. No rain, and the earth much cooler 
than before, and pleasanter* 

Dec. 27. Killed a young goat, and lamed an- 
other, .80 that I caught it, and led it home in a 
string ; when I had it home, I bound and splinter- 
ed up its leg, which was broke. N. K I took such 
care of it, that it lived, and the leg grew well and as 
strong as ever ; but by nursing it so long, it grew 
tame, and fed upon the little green at my door, and 
would not go away. This was the first time that 
I entertained a thought of breeding up some tame 
creatures, that I might have food when my powder 
and shot was all spent. 

Dec. 28, 29, 30. Great heats, and no breeze; so 
that there was no stirring abroad, except in the 
evening for food. This time I spent in putting all 
my things in order within doors. 

January 1. Very hot still; but I went abroad early 
and late with my gun, and lay still in the middle 
of the day. This evening, going farther into the 
Tallies which lay towards the centre of the island, 
I found there was plenty of goats, though exceed- 
ing shy and hard to come at; however, I resolved 
to try, if I could not bring my ^og to hunt them 
down. 



IM THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

Jan. 2. AcGordiDgly» the next day I went eat 
with my dog, and set him upon the goats; but i 
was mistaken, for they all faced about upon the dog: 
and he knew his danger too well ; for he would not 
come near them. 

Jan. S. I began my fence, or wall, which, being 
still jealous- of my being attacked by somebodyyl 
resolred to make yery thick and strong. 

N. R This wall being described before, I pur- 
posely omit what was said in the Journal ; it is 
sufficient to observe, that I was no less time, 
than from^ the Sd of January to the 1 4th of 
April, working, finishing, and perfecting this 
' wall, though it was no more than about twen- 
ty-four yards in length, being a half-circle, 
from one place in the rock to another place 
about eiglbt yards from it, the door of the cave 
being in the centre behind it. 

All this time I worked very hard,- the rains hin- 
dering me many days, nay, sometimes weeks toge- 
ther; but! thought I should never be perfectly 
secure, until this- wall was finished ; and it is scarce 
credible what inexpressible labour every thing was 
done with, especially the bringing piles out of the 
woods, and driving them into the ground; for I made 
them much bigger than I need to have done. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. Ifl 

When thb wall was finished, and the outside 
dbuble-fenced with a turf wall raised up close to it» 
I persuaded myself, that if any people were to come 
on shore there, they would not perceive any thing 
like a habitation ; and it was very well I did so, as 
may be observed hereafter, upon a very remarkable 
occasion. 

During this time, I made my rounds in the woods 
for game, every day, when the rain admitted me, 
and made frequent discoveries, in these walks, ot 
something or other to my advantage; particularly, 
I found a kind of wild pigeons, who built not as wood 
pigeons, in a tree, but rather as house pigeons, in 
the holes of the rocks; and taking some young ones, 
I endeavoured to breed them up tame; and did so: 
but when they grew older, they flew away, which 
perhaps was at first for want of feeding them^ for 
I had nothing to give them. However, I frequently 
found their nests, and got their young ones, which 
were very good meat. 

And now, in the managmg my household afl&irs, 
I found myself wanting in many things, which i 
thought at first it was impossible for me to make, 
as indeed as to some of them it was; for instance, I 
could never make a cask to be hooped. I had a small 
runlet or two, as I observed before, but I could 
never arrive to the capacity of making one by them, 
though I spent many weeks about it; I could neithei 



m TH£ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

pat in the heads, or joint the staves so tnie to one 
another, as to make them hold water, so I gave that 
also over. 

In the next place, I was at a great loss for candle, 
so that as soon as ever it was dark, which was ge- 
nerally by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. 
I remembered the lump of bees-wax, with which I 
made candles in my African adventure ; but I had 
none of that now. The only remedy I had, wa^ 
that, when I had killed a goat, I saved the tallow, 
and with a little dish made of clay, which I baked 
in the sun. to which I added a wick of some oakum, 
I made me a lamp; and this gave me light, though 
not a clear steady light like a candle. In the mid* 
die of all my labours, it happened, that, rummaging 
my things, I found a little bag, which, as I hinted 
before, had been filled with com for the feeding of 
poultry, not for this voyage, but before, as I sup- 
pose, when the ship came from Lisbon. What little 
remainder of com had been in the bag, was all de- 
voured with the rats, and I saw nothing in the bag 
but husks and dust; and being willing to have the 
bag for some other use, I think it was to put pow- 
der in, when I divided it for fear of the lightning, 
or some such use, I shook the husks of com out of 
it, on one side of my fortification, under the rock. 

It was a little before the great rains, just now 
meutioned, that I threw thift stuff away, taking no 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1» 

notice of any thing, and not so much as remember- 
ing that I had thrown any jthing there ; when abo«t 
a month af^r, or thereaboat, I saw some few sta&t 
of something green shooting out of the ground, 
which I fancied might be some plant I had not 
seen ; but I was surprised, and perfectly astonish- 
ed, when, after a little longer time, I saw about ten 
or twelve ears come out, which were perfect green 
barley, of the same kind as our European, nay, as 
our English, barley. 

It is impossible to express the astonishment and 
confusion of my thoughts on this occasion. I had 
hitherto acted upon no religious foundation at all. 
Indeed, I had very few notions of religion in my 
head, or had entertained any sense of any thing 
that had befallen me, otherwise than as a chance, 
or, as we lightly say, what pleases God ; without so 
much as inquiring into the end of Providence in 
these things, or his order in governing events in the 
world. But 3,fieT I saw barley grow there, in a cli- 
mate, which I knew was not proper for corn, and 
especially that I knew not how it came there, it 
startled me strangely, and I began to suggest, that 
God had miraculously caused this grain to grow, 
without any help of seed sown ; and that it was so 
directed purely for my sustenance on th^t wild m»* 
serable place. 

This touched my heart a little, smd brought tears 



1S4 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

out of my ejes^ and I began to bless myself^ that 
such a prodigy of nature should happen upon my 
account; and this was the more strange to me, be- 
cause I saw near it still, all along by the side of the 
rock, some other straggling stalks, which proved to 
be stalks of rice, and which I knew, because I had 
seen it grow in Africa, when I was ashore there. 

I not only thought these the pure productions of 
Providence for my support, but not doubting but 
that there was more in the place, I went all over 
that part of the island, where I had been before, 
peeping in every corner, and under every rock, to 
see* for more of it; but I could not find any. At last, 
it occurred to my thought, that I had shook a bag 
of chicken's meat out in that place, and then the 
wonder began to cease ; and I must confess, my re- 
ligious thankfulness to God's providence began to 
abate too, upon discovering, that all this was nothing 
but what was common, though I ought to have been 
as thankful for so strange and unforeseen a provi- 
dence, as if it had been miraculous; for it was really 
the work of Providence, as to me, that should order, 
or appoint ten or twelve grains of corn to remain 
unspoiled, when the rats had destroyed all the rest, 
as if it had been dropped from heaven : as also* 
that I should throw it out in that particular place, 
where, it being in the shade of a high rock, it sprang 
up immediately ; whereas, if I had thrown it any 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. Itt 

where else at that time, it had been burnt up and 
destroyed* 

I carefully saved the ears of corn, you may be 
sure, in their season, which was about the end of 
June, and, laying up every com, I resolved to sow 
them all again, hoping in time to have some quan* 
tity sufficient to supply me with bread; but it was 
not till the fourth year that I could allow myself 
the least grain of this com to eat, and even then 
but sparingly, as I shall say afterwards in its order; 
for I lost all that I sowed the first season, by not 
observing the proper time ; for I sowed it just be- 
fore the dry season, so that it never came up^at 
all, at least not as it would have done : of which^in 
its place. 

Besides this barley, there were, as above, twen^ 
ty or thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with 
the same care, and whose use was of the same kind, 
or to the same purpose, viz. to make me bread, or 
rather food ; for I found ways to cook it up with« 
out baking, though I did that also after some time* 
Bnt to return to my journal. 

I worked excessive hard these three or four months 
to get my wall done ; and the 14th of April I closed 
it up, contriving to go into it, not by a door, but 
over the wall by a ladder, that there might be no 
sign, in the outside, of my habitation. 



186 THE UFB AND ADVENTURES 

April' 16. I finished the ladder; so I went up 
with the ladder to the (op, and then pulled it up 
after me, and let it down on the inside : this was 
a cofltplete enclosure to me; for within I had room 
enough, and nothing could come at me from with- 
out, unless it could first mount my wall. 

The very next day after this wall was finished> 
I had almost had all my labour oyerthiown at once, 
and myself killed. The case was thus : As I was 
busy in the inside of it behind my tent, just in the 
entrance into my caye, I was terribly frighted with 
a most dreadful-surprising thing indeed ; for on a 
sudden I found the earth come crumbling down 
from the roof of my cave, and from the edge of the 
hill, over my head, and two of the posts I had set 
up in the cave cracked in a frightful manner : I 
was heartily scared, but thought nothing of what 
was really the cause, only thinking that the top of 
my cave was falling in, as some of it had done be- 
fore ; and for fear I should be buried in it, I ran 
forward to my ladder, and not thinking myself safe 
there neither, I got over my wall for fear of the 
pieces of the hill, which I expected might roll down 
upon me. I was no sooner stept down upon the 
firm ground, but 1 plainly saw it was a terrible 
earthquake, for the ground I stood on shook three 
time9 at about eight minutes distance, with three 
such shocks, as would have overturned the strongest 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. 187 

building that could be supposed to hare stood on 
the earth ; and a great piece of the top of a rocl^ 
which stood about half a mile from me next the 
sea, fell down with such a terrible noise as I never 
heard in all my life : I perceived also the very sea 
was put into violent motion by it ; and I believe 
the shocks were stronger under the water than on 
the island* 

I was so amazed with the thing itself, having 
never felt the like, or discoursed with any one that 
had, that I was like one dead or stapified ; and the 
motion of the earth made my stomach sick, like 
one that was tossed at sea; bat the noise of the 
falling of the rock awaked me, as it were, and roa* 
sing me from the stupified condition I was in, fill* 
ed me with horror, and I thought of nothing then 
but the hill falling upon my tent and all my house- 
hold goods, and burying all at once ; and thus sunk 
my very soul within me a second time. 

After the third shock was over, and I felt no 
more for some time, I began to take courage; and 
yet I had not heart enough to get over my wall 
again, for fear of being buried alive, but sat still 
upon the ground, greatly cast down and disconso- 
late, not knowing what to do. All this while I 
had not the least serious religious thought* nothing 
but the common " Lord have mercy upon me I" 
and when it was over, that went away too. 



128 THE LIFB AND ADVENTURES 

While I sat thu8> I found the air overcast, and 
grow cloudyj as if it woald rain ; soon after that, 
the wind rose by little and little, so that in less than 
half an hoar it blew a most dreadful hurricane : the 
sea was all on a sudden covered over with foam and 
froth, the shore was covered with the breach of the 
water, the trees were torn up by the roots, and a 
terrible storm it was; and this held about three 
hours, and then began to abate, and in two hours 
more it was stark calm, and began to rain very 
hard. 

All this while I sat upon the ground, very much 
terrified and dejected, when on a sudden it came 
into my thoughts, that these winds and rain being 
the consequence of the earthquake, the earthquake 
itself was spent and over, and I might venture into 
my cave again : with this thought my spirits began 
to revive, and, the rain also helping to persuade me, 
I went in and sat down in my tent ; but the rain 
was so violent, that my tent was ready to be beaten 
down with it; and I was forced to go into my 
cave, though very much afraid and uneasy, for 
fear it should fall on my head. 

This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz. 
to cut a hole through my new fortification like 
a sink, to let water go out, which would else have 
drowned my cave. After I had been in my cave 
some time, and found still no more shocks of the 



/• 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1«9 

rthquake follow^ I began to be more composed ; 
and now, to support my spirits, which indeed want** 
ed.it very much, I went to my little store, and 
took a small cup of rum, which, however, I did 
then, and always, very sparingly, knowing I could 
have no more when that was gone. 

It continued raining all that night, and great 
part of the next day, so that I could not stir abroad ; 
but, my mind being more composed, I began to 
think of what I had best do, concluding, that if 
the island was subject to these earthquakes, there 
would be no living for me in a cave, but I must 
consider of building me some little hut in an open 
place, which I might surround with a wall as I had 
done here, and so make myself secure from wild 
beasts or men : but concluded, if I staid where I 
was, I should certainly, one time or other, be bu- 
ried alive* 

With these thoughts, I resolved to remove my 
tent from the place where it stood, which was just 
under the hanging precipice of the hill, and which, 
if it should be shaken again, would certainly fall 
upon my tent And 1 spent the two next days, 
being the 10th and 20th of April, in contriving 
where and how to remove ray habitation. 

The fear of being swallowed up alive, made me 
that I never slept in quiet, and yet the apprehen* 
^on of lying abroad without any fence, was almost 

you I. 1 



ISO THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

equal to it ; but stilly when I looked about, and saw* 
how every thing was put in order, how pleasantly 
concealed I was, and how safe from danger, it 
made me very loth to remove. 

In the mean time, it occurred to me, that it would 
require a vast deal of time for me to do this, and 
that I must be contented to run the venture where 
I was, till I had formed a camp for myself, and had 
secured it so as to remove to it So, with this re* 
solution, I composed myself for a time, and resol- 
ved that I would go to work with all speed, to 
build me a wall with piles and cables, &c. in a cir* 
cic, as before ; and set my tent up in it when it 
was finished, but that I would venture to stay where 
I was till it was finished, and fit to remove to. This 
was the 21st 

April 22. The next morning I began to consi* 
der of means to put this resolve in execution, but 
I was at a great loss about my tools. _ I had three 
lai^e axes, and abundance of hatchets, (for we car- 
ried the hatchets for traffic with the Indians) ; but 
with much chopping and cutting knotty hard wood, 
they were all full of notches and dull ; and, though 
I had a grindstone, I could not turn it, and grind 
my tools too : this cost me as much thought as a 
statesman would have bestowed upon a grand point 
of politics, or a judge upon the life and death of a 

man. At length I contrived a wheel with a string, 

8 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ISl 

to tarn it with my foot^ that I might have both my 
hands at liberty. Note, I had neyer seen any such 
thing in England^ or at least not to take notice how 
it was done^ though since I have observed it is yery 
common there ; besides that, my grindstone was 
very large and heavy. This machine cost me a 
ibll week's work to bring it to perfection. 

April 28> 29. These two whole days I took up 
in grinding my tools, my machine for turning my 
grindstone performing very well. 

April 30. Having perceived my bread had been 
low a great while, now I took a survey of it, and 
reduced myself to one biscuit-cake a day, which 
made my heart very heavy. 



lai THE UF£ AND ADVENTURES 



CHAP. VI. 

Observe the Ship driven Jurther aground by the late 
Storfn-^Procure a vast quantity of necessaries Jram 
tJie Wreck — Catch a large Turtle^ I fall ill of a 
" Fever and AguS'^-^Terrible Dream, and serious rc' 
flections thereupon-'-'Find a Bible in one of the Sea- 
men's chests thrown ashore, the reading whereof gives 
me great confort. 

JVX AT 1. In the morning, looking towards the sea- 
side^ the tide being low, I saw something lie on the 
shore bigger than ordinary; and it looked like a 
cask. When I came to it, I found a small barrel, 
and two or three pieces of the wreck of the ship, 
which were driven on shore by the late hurricane; 
and looking towards the wreck itself^ I thought it 
seemed to lie higher out of the water than it used 
to do. I examined the barrel which was driven on 
shore, and soon found it was a barrel of gunpow- 



(OP ROBINSON CRUlSdE. m 

ier, but it had taken water, and the powder was 
ts^ed as hard as a stone ; however, I rolled it far- 
ther on shore for the present, and went on upon 
the sands as near as I amid to the wreck of the 
ship, to look for more. 

When I came down to the ship, I found it strange- 
ly removed ; the forecastle, which lay before bu- 
ried in sand> was heaved up at least six foot ; and' 
the stem, which was broke to pieces, and parted 
from the rest by the force of the sea, soon after I 
had left rummaging her, was tossed, as it were, up>' 
and cast on one side, and the sand was thrown so 
high on that side next her stern, that whereas there 
was a great place of water before, so that I could 
not come within a quarter of a mile of the wreck 
without swimming, I could now walk quite up to 
her when the tide was out. I was surprised with 
this at first, but soon concluded it must be done by 
the earthquake : and, as by this violence the ship 
was more broken open than formerly, so inany^ 
things came daily on shore, which the sea had 
loosened, 'and which the winds and water rolled by 
degrees to the land. 

This wholly diverted my thoughts from the designr 
of removing my habitation ; and I busied myself 
mightily, that day especially, in searching whether 
I could make any w^y into the ship ; but I found 
nothing was to be expected of that kind^ for ihat 



134 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

all the imide of the ship was choked up with sand; 
however, as I had learnt not to 4^spair of any 
thing, I resolved to pull every thing to pieces that 
I could of the ship, concluding, that every thing I 
could get from her would be of some use or other 
to me. 

May 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece 
of a beam through, which I thought held some of 
the upper part or quarter-deck together, and when 
I had cut it through, I cleared away the sand as 
well as I could from the side which lay highest ; 
but the tide coming in, I was obliged to give over 
for that time. 

May 4. I went a-fishing, but caught not one 
fish that I durst eat of, till I was weary of my 
sport; when just going to leave o£^ I caught a 
young dolphin. I had made me a long line of 
some ropcry^rn, but I had no hooks, yet I fre* 
quently caught fish enough, as much as I cared to 
eat; all which I dried in the sun, and ate them 
dry. 

May 5. Worked on the wreck, cut another 
beam asunder, and brought three great fir planks 
off from the decks, which I tied together, and made 
swim on shore when the tide of flood came on. 

May 6. Worked on the wreck, got several iron 
bolts out of her, and other pieces of iron-work; 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 185 

woiked very hard, and came home very much tired, 
and had thoughts of giving it oyer. 

May 7. Went to the wreck again, but with an 
intent not to work, but found the weight of the . 
wreck had broke itself down, the beams being ci^t, 
that several pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose, 
and the inside of the hold lay 90 open, that I could 
see into it^ but almost full of water and sand. 

May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron 
crow to wrench up the deck, which lay now quite 
clear of the water or sand ; I wrenched open two 
planks, and brought them on shore also with the 
tide : I left the iron crow in the wreck for next 
day. 

May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow 
made way into the body of the wreck, and felt se> 
yeral casks, and loosened them with the crow, but 
could not break them up : I felt also the roll of 
English lead, and could stir it, but it was too heavy 
to remove. 

May 10, 1 1, 12, 13, 14. Went every day to the 
wreck, and got a great many pieces of timber, and 
boards, or plank, and two or three hundred weight 
of iron. 

May 15. I carried two hatchets, to try if I could 
not cut a piece off the roll of lead, by placing the 
edge of one hatchet, and driving it with the other; 



136 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

but as it lay about a fck>t and a half in the water, I 
could not make any blow to drive the hatchet 

May 1 6. It had blown hard in the night, and the 
wreck appeared more broken by the force of the 
water; but I staid so long in the woods to get 
pigeons for food, that the tide prevented me going 
to the wreck that day. 

May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown; 
on shore, at a great distance, near two miles off me, 
but resolved to see what they were, and found it. 
was a piece of the bead, but too heavy for me to^ 
bring away. 

May 24. Every day to this day I worked on the 
wreck, and, with hard labour, I loosened some things. 
80 much with the crow, that the first flowing tide 
several casks floated out, and two of the seamen's 
chests; but the wind blowing from the shore, no-, 
thing came to land that d(iy but pieces of timber,, 
and a hogshead, which, had some Brazil pork in it, 
but the salt water and the sand had spoiled it 

I continued this work every day to the 13th o^ 
June, except the time necessary to get food, which- 
I always appointed,.daring this part of my employ-: 
ment, to be when the tide was up, that I might be 
ready when it was ebbed out ; and by this time I 
had gotten timber, and plank, and iron work enough: 
to bsive built a good bo^t, if I had knp^vnhow; and. 



' OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. tSt 

tilso I got at several times^ and in several pieces, 
near one hundred weight of the sheet-ltfad. 

June 16. Going down to the sea-side> I found a 
large tortoise, or turtle : this was the first I had seen, 
which, it seems, was only^ my misfortune, not any 
defect of the place, or scarcity ; for had I happen- 
ed to be on the other side of the island, I might 
have had hundreds of them every day, as I found 
afterwards ; but perhaps had paid dear enough for 
them. 

June 17. I spent in cooking the turtle; I found 
in her threescore eggs ; and her iiesh was to me at 
that time the mos^ savoury and pleasant that ever 
I tasted in my life, having had no flesh, but of goats 
and fowls, since I landed in this horrid place. 

June 1 8. Rained all day, and I stayed within. I 
thought at this time the rain felt cold, and I was 
something chilly, which I knew was not usual in 
that latitude. 

June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the wea- 
ther had been cold. 

June 20. No rest all night, violent pains In my 
head, and feverish. 

June 21. Very ill, frighted almost to death with 
the apprehensions of my sad condition, to be sick, 
and no help. Prayed to God, for the first time since 
the storm oif Hull, but scarce knew what I said, of 
«rhy; my. thoughts being all confused. 



1S8 THE LIFE AND ADYENTURES 

June 22. A little better, but under dreadAtl ap- 
prehensions of sickness. 

Jane 2S. Very bad again, cold and shivering, and 
then a violent headach. 

Jane 24. Much better. 

June 25. An ague very violent; the fit held me 
aeven hours, cold fit and hot, with foint sweats af* 
ler it 

June 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat, 
took my gun, but found myself very weak ; bow^ 
ever, I killed a she-goat, and, with much difficulty, 
got it home, and broiled some of it, and ate; I 
would fain have stewed it, and made some broths 
but had no pot. 

June 27. The ague again so violent, that I lay 
abed all day, and neither ate or drank. I was ready 
to perish for thirst, but so weak I had not strength 
to stand up, or to get myself any water to drink. 
Prayed to God again, but was light-headed ; and 
wlien I was not, I was so ignorant, that I knew not 
what to say; only I lay, and cried, '' Lord look up 
on met Lord pity me! Lord have mercy upon 
me \" I suppose I did nothing else for two or three 
hours, till, the fit wiearing off, I fell asleep, and did 
not wake till far in the night; when I waked, I 
found myself much refreshed, but weak, and ez^ 
ceeding thirsty : however, as I had no water in my 
whole habitation, I was forced to lie till mornings 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 139 

and went to sleep again. In this second sleep I had 
this terrible dream. 

I thought that I was sitting on the ground on the 
outside of my wall, where I sat when the storm 
blew after the earthquake, and that I saw a man 
descend from a great black cloud, in a bright flame 
of fire, and light upon the ground. He was all over 
as bright as a flame, so that I could but just bear to 
look towards him ; his countenance was most inez* 
pressibly dreadful, impossible for words to describe ; 
when he stepped upon the 'ground with his feet, I 
thought the earth trembled, just as it had done be* 
fore in the earthquake, and all the air looked to my 
apprehension as if it had been filled with flashes of 
fire. 

He was no sooner landed upon the earth, but he 
moved forward towards me, with a long spear, or 
weapon, in his hand to kill me ; and when he came 
to a rising ground, at some distance^ he spoke to me* 
or I heard a voice so terrible, that it is impossible 
to express the terror of it ; all that I can say I un- 
derstood was this :— '' Seeing all these things have 
not brought thee to repentance, now thou shalt die :" 
at which words, I thought he lifted up the spear 
that was in his hand to kill me. 

No one, that shall ever read this account, will ex- 
pect, that I should be able to describe the horrors 
of my soul at this terrible visipn; I mean, that evea 



140 . THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

while it was a dream, I even dreamed of those hor- •> 
rors; nor is it any more possible to describe the/ 
impression that remained upon my mind, when I 
awaked and found it was but a dream. 

I had, alas ! no divine knowledge. What I had 
received by the good instruction of my father was 
then worn out by an uninterrupted series, for eight 
years, of seafaring wickedness, and a constant €on« 
versation with nothing but such as were, like my- 
self, wicked and profane to the last degree. I do 
not remember, that I had, in all that time, one 
thought, that so much as tended either to looking 
upwards toward €rod, or inwards towards a reflec* 
tion upon my own ways. But a certain stupidity of 
soul, without desire of good, or conscience of evil, 
bad entirely overwhelmed me, and I was all that 
the most hardened, unthinking, wicked creature, 
^mong our common sailors, can be supposed to be, 
not having the least sense, either of the fear of 
God in danger, or of thankfulness to God in deliver* 
ances. 

In the relating what b already past of my story, 
this will be the more easily believed, when I shall 
«idd, that, through all the variety of miseries that 
had to this day befallen me, I never had so much 
as one thought of it being the hand of God, or that 
it was a just punishment for my sin ; my rebellious 
behaviour against my father, or my present aUns, 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 141 

which were greats or so much as a punishmeut for 
the general course of my wicked life. When I was 
on the desperate expedition on the desert shores of 
Africa, I never had so much as one thought of what 
would become of me, or one wish to God to direct 
jne whither I should go, or to keep me from the 
danger, which apparently surrounded me, as well 
from voracious creatures, as cruel savages : but I 
was merely thoughtless of a God, or a Providence; 
acted like a mere brute, from the principles of na* 
ture, and by the dictates of common sense only, 
and indeed hardly that. 

When I was delivered, and taken up at sea by 
the Portugal captain, well used, and dealt justly and 
honourably with, as well as charitably, I had not 
the least thankfulness in my thoughts. When again 
I was shipwrecked, ruined, and in danger of drown- 
ing on this island, I was as far from remorse, or 
•looking on it as a judgment; I only said to myself 
often, that I was an unfortunate dog, and born to be 
always miserable. 

It is true, when I got on shore first here, and 
found all my ship's crew drowned, and myself spared^ 
I was surprised with a kind of ecstasy^ and some 
transports of soul, which, had the grace of God as- 
sisted, might have come up to true thankfulness; 
but it ended where it begun, in a mere common 
^ight of joy« or, as I may say^ being glgkd Iw<k^ oUv^ 



]4t THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

without the least reflection upon the distinguishing 
goodness of the Hand which had preserved me, and 
had singled me out to he preserved^ when all the 
yest were destroyed ; or an inquiry why Providence 
had been thus merciful to me : even just the same 
common sort of joy which seamen generally have, 
af^rthey have got safe on shore from a shipwreck, 
which they drown all in the next bowl of punch, 
and forget almost as soon as it is over; and all the 
rest of my life was like it 

Even when I was afteiwards, on due considera* 
tion, made sensible of my condition, how I was cast 
on this dreadful place, out of the reach of human 
kind, out of all hope of relief, or prospect of re- 
deroption, as soon as I saw but a prospect of living, 
and that I should not starve and perish for hunger, 
all the sense of my affliction wore ofi^ and I began 
to be very easy, applied myself to the works pro- 
per for my preservation and supply, and was far 
enough from being afHicted at my condition, as a 
judgment from Heaven, or as the hand of God against 
me: these were thoughts which very seldom entered 
into my head. 

The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my 
journal, had at first some little influence upon me, 
and began to afifect me with seriousness, as long as 
I thought it had something miraculous in it; but as 
5oon as ever that part of thought was removed, all 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. US 

the impression, which was raised from it, wore off 
also, as I have noted already* 

Even the earthquake, though nothing could be 
more terrible in its nature, or more immediately di« 
recting to the invisible Power, which alone directs 
such things; yet no sooner was the first fright oyer* 
but the impression it had made went off also. I had 
no more sense of God, or his judgments, much less 
of the present affliction of my circumstances being 
from his hand, than if I bad been in the most pros* 
perous condition of life. 

But now, when I began to be sick, and a leisurely 
view of the miseries of death came to place itself 
before me; when my spirits began to sink under 
the burden of a strong distemper, and nature was 
exhausted with the violence of the fever, conscience* 
that had slept so long, began to awake, and I be* 
gan to reproach myself with my past life, in which 
I had so evidently, by uncommon wickedness, pro- 
voked the justice of God to lay me under uncom- 
mon strokes, and to deal with me in so vindictive a' 
manner. 

These reflections oppressed me, from the second 
or third day of my distemper; and in the violence, 
as well of the fever as of the dreadful reproaches of 
my conscience, extorted some words from me, like 
praying to God, though I cannot say they were ei- 
ther a prayer attended with desires, or with hopes; 



U4 THE LIF£ AND ADVENTURES 

it was rather the voice of m^e fright and dist^ss;^ 
iny thoughts were confused, the convictions great 
upon my mind, and the horror of dying in such a 
miserable condition raised vapours into my head 
vrith the mere apprehensions; and, in these hurries 
of my souU I |(new not what my tongue might ex*, 
press: but it was rather exclamation, such as, 
^ Lord ! what a miserable creature am I ! If I 
«hould be sick, I shall certainly die for want of help, 
and what will become of me l" Then the tears burst 
out of my eyes, and I could say no more for a good 
while. 

In this interval, the good advice of my father came 
to my mind, and presently his prediction, which I 
mentioned in the beginning of this story; viz. that, 
if I did take this foolish step, God would not bles» 
me ; and I would have leisure hereafter to reflect 
upon having neglected his counsel, when there might 
be none to assist in my recovery. " Now,'' sstid I 
aloud, *' my dear father's words are coine to pass ; 
God's justice has overtaken me, and I have none to 
help or heai* me. I rejected the voice of Providence, 
t^hich had mercifully put me in a posture, or sta- 
tion of life, wherein I might have been happy and . 
^asy ; but I would neither see it myself, nor learn 
to know the blessing of it from my parents. I left 
them to mourn over my folly, and now I am left to 
lUQurn under the consequences of it. I refused their 



OF ROBINSON GRUSdE. 14ft 

helf) and assistance, who would haye lided me into 
the world, and would have made every thing easy 
to me, and now I have difficokies to struggle with, 
too great for even nature itself to support, and no 
assistance, no help, no comfort, no advice/' Then 
I cried out, *' Lord, be my help; for I am in great 
distress !'' 

This was the first prayer, if I might call it so, 
that I had made for many years. But I return to 
my journal. 

June 28. Having been somewhat reiieshed with 
the sleep I had had, and the fit being entirely ofC 
I got up ; and though the fright and terror of my 
dream was very great, yet I considered, that the fit 
of the ague would return again the next day, and 
now was my time to get something to refresh and 
support myself, when I should be ill : and the first 
thing I did, I filled a large square case-bottle with 
water, and set it upon my table, in reach of my bed : 
and to take off the chill or aguish disposition of the 
water, I put about a quarter of a pint of rum into 
it, and mixed them together; then I got me a piece 
of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but 
could eat very little. I walked about, but was very 
weak, and withal very sad and heavy-hearted^ un- 
der a sense of my miserable condition, dreading the 
return of my distemper the next day. At night, I 
made my supper of three of the turtle's eggs, which 

VOL. I. K 



146 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

I roasted in the ashes, and ate, as we call it, in the 
sheU ; and this was the first bit of meat I had ever 
asked God's blessing to, even, as I could remember, 
in my whole life. 

Af^r I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found my- 
self so weak, that I conld hardly carry the gun (for 
I never went out without that} ; so I went but a little 
way, and sat down upon the ground, looking out 
upon the sea, which was just before me, and very 
calm and smooth. As I sat here, some such thoughts 
as these occurred to me :— 

What is the earth and sea» of which I have seen 
so much ? Whence is it produced ? And what am 
I, aaid all the other creatures, wild and tame, human 
and brutal; whence are we? 

Sure we are all made by some secret Power, who 
formed the earth and sea, the air and sky ; and who 
is that ? 

Then it followed, most naturally :— It is God that 
has made it all* Well, but then, it came on strange- 
ly, if God has made all these things he guides and 
governs them all, and all things that concern them; 
for the Being, that could make all things, must cer- 
tainly have power to guide and direct them. 

If so, nothing can happen in the great circuit of 
his works, cither without his knowledge or appoint- 
ment. 

8 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 147 

And if nothing happens withoot bis knowledge^ 
he knows that I am here> and am in a dreadful con* 
dition ; and if nothing happens without his appoint- 
ment, he has appointed all this to befal me. 

Nothing occurred to my thoughts to contradict 
any of these conclusions; and therefore it rested 
upon me with the greater force, that it must needs 
be, that God had appointed all this to befal me ; 
that I was brought to this miserable circumstance 
by his direction, he having the sole power, not of 
me only, but of every thing that happened in the 
world. Immediately it followed. 

Why has God done this to me ? What have I 
done to be thus used ? 

My conscience presently checked me in that in^ 
quiry, as if I had blasphemed ; and methought it 
spoke to me, like a voice : — ** Wretch ! dost thou 
ask what thou hast done ? Look back upon a dread- 
ful mis- spent life, and ask thyself what thou hast 
not done ? Ask why is it that thou wert not long 
ago destroyed? Why wert thou not drowned in 
Yarmouth Roads? killed in the fight, when the ship 
was taken by the Sallee man of war? devoured by 
the wild beasts on the coast of Africa ? or drowned 
HERE, when all the crew perished but thyself? Dost 
thou Btk, What have I done ?" 

I was struck with these reflections, as one astoaish- 
. ed, and had not a word to say, no, not to answer to> 



148 TH£ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

myself; but rose up pensive and sad, walked back 
to my retreat, and went up over my wall, as if I 
had been going to bed; but my thoughts were sadly 
disturbed, and I had no inclination to sleep, so I sat 
down in my chair, and lighted my lamp; for it be- 
gan to be dark. Now, as the apprehensions of the 
return of my distemper terrified me very much, it 
occurred to my thought, that the Brasilians take no 
physic but their tobacco, for almost all distempers; 
and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the 
chests, which was quite cured, and some also that 
was green, and not quite cured. 

I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt; for in this 
chest I found a cure both for soul and body. I opened 
the chest, and found what I looked for; viz. the to- 
bacco ; and as the few books I had saved lay there 
loo, I took out one of the Bibles, which I mentioned 
before, and which, to this time, I had hot found lei- 
sure, or so much as inclination, to look into ; I say, 
I took it out, and brought both that and the tobacco 
with me to the table. 

What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as 
to my distemper, or whether it was good for it or 
no ; but 1 tried several experiments with it, as if I 
was resolved it should hit one way or other. I first 
took a piece of a leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, 
which indeed at first almost stupified my brain, the 
tobacco being green and strong, and that I had not 



OF ROBINSON CttUSOB. 149 

been much used to it; then I took some, and steeped 
it an hour or two in some ram, and resolved to take 
a dose of it, when I lay down; and lastly, I burnt 
some upon a pan of coals, and held my nose close 
over the smoke of it, as long as I could bear it, as 
well for the heat, as the virtue of it, and I held al- 
most to suffocation. 

In the interval of this operation, I took up the 
Bible, and began to read ; but my head was too 
much disturbed with the tobacco to bear reading, 
at least at that time; only, having opened the book 
casually, the first words that occurred to me were 
these : — '' Call on me, in the day of trouble, and I 
will deliver ; and thou shalt glorify me." 
' The words were very apt to my case, and made 
.some impression upon my thoughts at the time of 
reading them, though not so much as they did after- 
wards; for, as for being delivered, the word had no 
sound, as I may say to me. The thing was so re- 
mote, so impossible, in my apprehension of things, 
that I )>egan to say, as the chiklcen of Israel did, 
when they were promised flesh to eat, ^* Can God 
spread a table in the wilderness?" So I began to 
say. Can God himself deliver me from this place ? 
And as it was not for many years that any hope ap* 
peared, this prevailed very often upon my thoughts. 
Buty however, the words made a very great inot- 
pre^ioi; upon me, and I mused upon then) very 



150 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

often. It grew now late, and the tobacco had, as I 
said, dozed my head so much, that I incliaed to 
sleep, so that I left my lamp burning in the cave, 
lest I should want any thing in the night, and went 
to bed. But before I lay down, I did what I never 
bad done in all my life, I kneeled down, and pray- 
ed to God to fulfil the promise to me, that, if I called 
upon him, in the day of trouble, he would deliver 
me. After my broken and imperfect prayer was 
over, I drank the rum, in which I had steeped the 
tobacco, which was so strong and rank of the to- 
bacco, that indeed I could scarce get it down. Im« 
mediately upon this, I went to bed, and I found 
presently it flew up into my head violently ; but I fell 
into a sound sleep, and waked no more, till, by the 
sun, it must necessarily be near three o'clock in the 
afternoon the next day ; nay, to this hour, I am 
partly of the opinion, that I slept all the next day 
and night, and till almost three the day after ; for, 
othemisc, I know not how I should lose a day out 
of my reckoning, in the days of the week, as it ap- 
peared, somo years after, I had done : for, if I had 
lost it by crossing and recrossing the Line, I should 
have lost more than a day; but in my account it 
was lost, and I never knew which way. 

Be that, however, one way or other; when I 
awaked, I found myself exceedingly refreshed, and 
my spirits lively and cheerful. When I got up, I 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 151 

was stronger than I was the day before^ and my 
stomach better; for I was hungry; and, in short, I 
had no fit the next day, bat continued much alter- 
ed for the better : this was the 29th. 

The 30th was my well day of course, and I went 
abroad with my gun, but did not care to travel too 
far : I killed a sea-fowl or two, something like a 
brand goose, and brought them home, but was not 
very forward to eat them : so I ate some more o£ 
the turtle^s eggs, which were very good. This even- 
ing I renewed the medicine which I had supposed 
did me good the day before, viz. the tobacco steep* 
ed in rum ; only I did not take so muqh as befoKu 
nor did I -chew any of the leaf, or hold my head 
over the smoke ; however, I was not so well the 
next day, which was the 1st of July, as I hoped I 
should have been ; for I had a little spice of the 
cold fit, but it was not much. 

July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three 
ways, and dozed myself with it at first, and doubled 
the quantity which I drank. 

July S. I missed the fit for good and all, though 
I did not recover my full strength for some weeks 
after. While I was thus gathering strength, my 
thoughts ran exceedingly upon this scripture, " I 
will deliver thee ;" and the iilapossibility of my de» 
liverance lay much upon my mind, in bar of my 
ever expecting it : but as I was discouraging myt 



159 THK LIF£ AND ADVENTURES 

self with such thoughts^ it occurred to my mind, 
that I pored so much upon my deliverance from 
the nain affliction, that I disregarded the deliver- 
ance I had received ; and I was, as it were, made 
to ask myself soch questions as these : viz. Have I 
not been delivered, and wonderfully too, from sick- 
ness ? from the most distressing condition that could 
be, and that was so frightful to me ? and what no- 
tice had I taken of it } had I done my part ? God 
had delivered me, but / heul not glorified him : that is 
to say, I had not owned and been thankful for that 
as a deliverance ; and how could I expect greater 
deliverance ? 

This touched my heart very much, and immedi- 
ately I kneeled down, and gave God thanks aloud, 
for my recovery from my sickness. 

July 4. In the morning I took the Bible ; and, 
beginning at the New Testament I began serious- 
ly to read it, and imposed upon myself to read a 
while every morning and every night, not tying my- 
self to the number of chapters, but as long as my 
thoughts should engage me. It was not long afU 
I set seriously to this work, but I found my heait 
more deeply and sincerely afiected with the wick- 
edness of my past life. The impression of my dream 
revived; and the words, «' All these things have not 
brought thee to repentance,'^ ran seriously in my 
tl)oug||t8. I was earnestly begging of God to give 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOIS. ^^ 

me repentance, when it happened provdentially 
the yery day, that, reading the Scripture, I came 
to these words : — " He is exalted a Prince, aod a 
Saviour, to give repentance, and to give remission/' 
I threw down the book, and with my heart as well 
as my hand lifted up to heaven, iu a kind of ecstacy 
of joy, I cried out aloud, ''Jesus, thou Son of David! 
Jesus, thon exalted Prince and Saviour, give me 
repentance V* 

. This was the iil^t time that I could say, in the 
tnie sense of the words, that I prayed iu all my life; 
for now I prayed with a sense of my condition, and 
with a true Scripture view of hope, founded on the 
encouragement of the word of God ; and from this 
time, 1 may say, I began to have hope, that God 
would hear me. 

Now I began to construe the words mentioned 
above, ^ Call on me, and I will deliver thee,'' in a 
different sense from what I had ever done before; 
for then 1 had no noiion of any thing being called 
deliverance, but my being delivered from the cap- 
tivity I was in : for, though I was indeed at large in 
the place, yet the island was certainly a prison to me, 
and that in the worst sense of the word ; but now 
I learnt to take it in another sense. Now I looked 
back upon my past life with such horror, and my 
sins appeared so dreadful, that my soul sought no- 
thing of God, but deliverance from the Ipad of 



154 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

gailt that bore down all my comfort As for mj 
solitary life, it was nothing ; I did not so much as 
pray to be delivered from it, or think of it ; it was 
all of no consideration in comparison of this ; and 
1 added this part here, to hint to whoever shall 
read it, that whenever they come to a true sense of 
things, they will find deliverance from sin a much 
greater blessing than deliverance frcHn affliction. 

But, leaving this part, I return to my journal. 

My condition began now to he, though not less 
miserable as to my way of living, yet much easier 
to my mind ; and my thoughts being directed, by 
a constant reading the Scripture, and praying to 
God, to things of a higher nature, I had a great 
deal of comfort within, which till now I knew no- 
thing of : also as my health and strength returned, 
I bestirred myself to furnish myself with every 
thing that I wanted, and make my way of living 
as regular as I could. 

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly 
employed in walking about with my gun in my 
hand, a little and a little at a time, as a man that 
was gathering up his strength after a fit of sick« 
ness ; for, it is hardly to be imagined how low I 
was, and to what weakness I was reduced. The 
application which I made use of was perfectly new, 
and, perhaps, what had never cured an ague be* 
fore; neither can I recommeud it to any one to 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. 155 

practise by this experiment; and though it did 
carry off the fit, yet it rather contributed to weakea 
me ; for I had frequent convulsions in my nerves 
and limbs for some time. 

I learnt from it also this in particular, that being 
abroad in the rainy season was the most pernicious 
thing to my health that could be, especially in 
those rains which came attended with storms and 
hurricanes of wind ; for, as the rain which came in 
a dry season was always most accompanied with 
such storms, so I found this rain was much more 
dangerous than the rain which fell in September 
and October. 

I had been now in this unhappy island above 
ten months ; all possibility of deliverance from this 
condition seemed to be entirely taken from me ; 
and I firmly believed, that no human shape had 
ever set foot upon that place. Having now secured 
my habitation,- as I thought, fully to my mind, 
I had a great desire to make a more perfect dis* 
covery of the island, and to see what other produc* 
tjons I might find, which yet I knew nothing of. 



156 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 



CHAP, vir, 

/ btgin to take a surv^ of my Idand^^Discovo' pUfir 
ty of Tobacco, Grapes, Lenums, and Sugar Canes, 
vdld, hut no. human Inhabitants — Resolve to lay tp 
a store of these articles, to fUmisfi me against the 
wet seoMU—My Cat, which I supposed lost, returns 
V)ith KittenS"^! regulate my diet, and shut niyseff 
up for tlic wet season — Sow nnf Grain, which comes 
to nothing ; hut I discover, and remedy my error^^ 
Tt^e account of the course of the Weather. 

.It was the 15th of Jaly that I began to lake a 
more particular survey of the island itself. I went 
up the creek first, where, as I hinted, I brought 
my r^fts on shore. I found, after I came about 
two miles up, that the tide did not flow any higher, 
and that it was no more than a little brook of nm- 
ning water, and yery fresh and good ; but this be- 
ing the dry season, there was hardly any water in 
some parts of it, at least not enough to run into 
^ny stream, so as it could be perceivei). 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 151 

On the bank of this brook I found many plea-t 
sant savannas or meadows, plain, smooth, and co« 
yered with grass; and, on the rising parts of them, 
next to the higher grounds, where the water, as it 
might be supposed, never overflowed, I found a 
great deal of tobacco, green, and growing to a great 
and very strong stalk : there were divers other plants 
which I had no notion of, or understanding about; 
and might perhaps have virtues of their own, which 
I could not find out 

I searched for the cassave root, which the Indians 
in all that climate make their bread of, but I could* 
find none. I saw large plants of aloes, but did not 
then understand them : I saw several sugar-canes, 
but wild, and, for want of cultivation, imperfect. I 
contented myself with these discoveries for this 
time, and came back musing with myself what 
course I might take to know the virtue apd good- 
ness of any of the fruits or plants which I should 
discover, but could bring it to no conclusion ; for, 
in short, I had made so little observation while I 
was in the Brazils, that I knew little of the plants 
of the field, at least, very little that might serve 
me to any purpose now in my distress. 

The next day, the 1 6th, I went up the same way 
again ; and, after going something farther than I 
bad done the day before, I found the brook and 
the savannas began to cease, and the country be- 



158 THE LIFE AND ADYENTUEES 

came more woody than before. In this part I found 
difierent ihiits, and particalarly I found melons 
upon the ground in great abundance, and grapes 
upon the trees ; the vines had spread indeed over 
the trees, and the clusters of grapes were just now 
in their prime, very ripe and rich. This was a 
surprising discovery, and I was exceeding glad of 
them ; but I was warned by my experience to eat 
sparingly of them, remembering, that when I was 
ashore in Barbary, the eating of grapes killed se- 
veral of our Englishmen who were slaves there, by 
throwing them into fluxes and fevers : bat I found 
an excellent use for these grapes, and that was to 
cure or dry them in the sun, and keep them as 
dried grapes or raisins are kept, which I thought 
would be, as indeed they were, as wholesome, and 
as agreeable to ea^ when no grapes might be had. 

I spent all that evening there, and went not back 
to my habitation; which, by the way, was the first 
night, as I might say, I had lain fronl home. In 
the night I took my first contrivance, and got up 
into a tree, where I slept well, and the next morn- 
ing proceeded upon my discovery, travelling near 
four miles, as I might judge by the length of the- 
valley, keeping still due north, with a ridge of 
hills on the south and north side of me. 

At the end of this march I came to an opening; 
where the country seemed to descend to the west ; 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 150 

and a litl^e spring of fresh water, which issued out 
of the side of the hill by me, ran the other way, 
that is, due east; and the country appeared so 
fresh, so green, so flourishing, every thing being in 
a constant verdure, or flourish of spring, that it 
looked like a planted garden. 

I descended a little on the side of that delicious 
valley, surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure 
(though mixed with other afHicting thoughts) to 
think that this was all my own, that I was king and 
lord of all this country indefeasibly, and had a right 
of possession ; and, if I could convey it, I might 
have it in inheritance, as completely as any lord of 
a manor in England. I saw here abundance of co« 
coa^trees, orange and lemon, and citron trees, but 
all wild, and few bearing any fruit ; at least, not 
then I however, the green limes that I gathered 
were not only pleasant to eat, but very whole- 
some ; and I mixed their juice aflerwards with wa- 
ter, which made it very wholesome, and ^ery cool 
and refreshing. 

I found now I had business enough to gather and 
carry home; and resolved to lay up a store, as 
well of grapes, as limes and lemons, to furnish my- 
self lor the wet season, which I knew was approach- 
ing. 

In order to do this, I gatheired a great keap of 
grapes in one place, and a lesser heap in anoth^ 



160 THE UF£ AND ADVENTURES 

place, and a great parcel of limes and lemons in 
another place ; and taking a few of each with me, 
I travelled homeward, and resolved to come again, 
and bring a bag or sack, or what I could make, to 
carry the rest home. 

Accordingly, having spent three days in this 
journey, I came home (so I must now call my tent, 
and my cave); but before I got thither, the grapes 
were spoiled ; the richness of the fruit, and the 
weight of the juice, having broken them, and 
bruised them, they were good for little or nothing : 
as to the limes, they were good, but I could bring 
but a few. 

The next ^ay, being the 19th, I went back, ha- 
ving made me two small bags to bring home my 
harvest But I was surprised, when, coming to my 
heap of grapes, which were so rich and fine when 
I gatheied them, I found them all spread abroad, 
trod to pieces, and dragged about, some here, some 
there, and abundance eaten and devoured. By this 
I concluded there were some wild creatures there- 
abouts, which had done this ; but what they were 
I knew not. 

However, as I found there was no laying them 
up on heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack, 
but that one way they would be destroyed, and the 
other way they would be crushed with their own 
weight, I took another course ; for I gathered a 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 161 

large quantity of the grapes, and hung them upon 
the out branches of the trees, that. they might 
cure and dry in the sun ; and, as for the Hmep and 
lemons, I carried as many back as I could well 
stand under. 

When I came home fmm this journey, I con- 
templated, with great pleasure, on the fruitfulness 
of that valley, and the pleasantness of the situation^ 
the security from storms on that side of the water, 
and the wood; and concluded, that I had pitched 
upon a place to fix my abode, which was by far 
the worst part of the country. Upon the whole, I 
began to consider of remoYWg my habitation, and 
to look out for a place equally safe, as where I now 
was situated, if possible, in that pleasant, fruitful 
part of the island. 

This thought ran long in my head, and I was 
exceeding fond of it for some time, the pleasant- 
ness of the place tempting me ; but when I came 
to a nearer yiew of it, and to consider that I was 
now by the sea-side, where it was at least possible 
that something might happen to my advantage, and 
that the same ill fate that brought me hither, might 
bring some other unhappy wretches to the same 
place; and, though it was scarce probable that any 
such thing should ever happen, yet, to inclose my- 
self among the hills and woods, in the centre of the 
island, was to anticipate my bondage, and to ren- 

VOL. I. ^ L 



IM TH£ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

der such an affiur not only improbable^ but impos* 
•ible; and that therefore I ought not by any means 
to remove. 

Howeyer, I was so enamoared with this place, 
that I spent much of my time there for the whole 
remainiog part of the month of July ; and though, 
upon second thoughts, I resolved as above, not to 
remove, yet I bmlt me a little kind of a bower, and 
florrounded it, at a distance, with a strong fence, 
being a double hedge, as high as I could reach, 
well staked, and filled between with brushwood; 
and here I lay veiy secure, sometimes two or three 
nights together, always going over it with a ladder, 
as before ; so that I fancied now I had my country- 
bouse, and my sea-coast house ; and this work took 
me up the beginning of August 

I had but newly finished my fence, and began to 
enjoy my labour, but the rains came on, and made 
me stick close tO' my first habitation ; for, though 
I had made me a tent like the other, with a piece 
of a sail, and spread it very well, yet I had not the 
shelter of an hill to keep me from storms, nor a 
cave behind me, to retreat into when the rains 
were extraordinary. 

About the beginning of August, as I said, I had 

finished my bower, and began to enjoy myself. The 

3d of August I found the grapes I had hung up 

were perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent 

2 



OF ROBINSON CRVSOB. 103 

good raisins of the sufi ; so I began to take them 
^own from the trees^ and it was yery happy that I 
did 80 ; for the rains which followed woaM haye 
spoiled them, and I had lost the best part of my 
winter food; for I had above two hundred large 
bunches of them. No sooner had I takien them all 
down, and carried most of them home to my caye> 
bat it began to rain ; and from thence^ which was 
the i4th of August, it rained more or less every 
•day, till the middle of October, and simietimes so 
violently, that I could not stir out of my caye for 
several days. 

In this season I .was much surprised with the in- 
crease of my family : I had been concerned for the 
loss of one of my cats, who ran away from me^ or, 
as I thought, had been dead ; and I heard no more 
tale or tidings of her, till to my astonishment she 
came lu»ne about the end of August^ with three 
kittens. This was the more strange to me, because 
though I had killed a wild cat, as I called i1^ with 
my gun, yet I thought it was a qnite different kind 
from our European cats ; yet the young oats were 
the same kind of house breed like the old one ; and 
both my cats being females, I thoU^ it veiy 
strange: but from these three cats I afterwards 
came to be so pestered widi cats, that I was forced 
to kill them like vermin, or wild beasts^ and to 
drive them from my house as much as possible. 



164 THB LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

From the 14th of Aagust to the 26 th/ incessant 
rain, so that I could not stir, and was now very 
careful not to be much wet. In this confinemeBt 
I began to be straitened for food ; but venturing 
out twice, I one day kiUed a goat : and the last 
day, which was the 26th, found a very large tor- 
toise, which was a treat to me, 'and my food was 
regulated thus: I ate a bunch of raisins for my 
breakfast, a piece of the goat's flesh, or of the tur- 
tle, for my dinner, broiled (for,: to my great mis- 
fortune, I had' no vessel to boil or stew any thing); 
and two or three of the turtle's eggs for supper. 

During this confinement in my cover by the rain, 
I worked daily two or three houris at enlarging my 
cave ; and, by degrees, worked it on towards one 
side, till I came to the outside of the hill, and made 
a door or way out, which came beyond my fence 
or wall ; and so I came in and out this way. But I 
was not perfectly easy at lying so open; for as I 
had managed myself before, I was in a perfect en- 
closure, whereas now I thought I lay exposed ; and 
yet I could not perceive that there was any living 
thing to fear, the biggest creature that I had- seen 
upon the island being a goat. 

September the 30th. I was now come to the un* 
happy suiniversary of my landing : I cast up the 
notches pn my post, and found I had been on shore 
three hundred and sixty-five days. I kept this day 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 165 

ms a solemn fast, setting it apart to a religious ex- 
ercise, prostrating myself to the gproand with the 
most serious humiliation, confessing myself to God, 
acknowledging his righteous judgment upon me, 
and praying to him to have mercy on me, through 
Jesus Christ ; and haying not tasted the least re* 
fresbment for twelve hours, even till the going down 
of the sun, I ^n ate a biscuit^cake and a bunch 
of. grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as I 
began it. 

I had all this time observed no sabbath-day ; 
for as at first I had no sense of religion upon my 
mind, I had after some time omitted to distinguish 
the weeks, by making a longer notch than ordinary 
for the sabbath-day, and so did not really know 
what any of the days were; but now, having cast 
up the days as above, I found I had been there a 
year; so I divided it into weeks, and set apart 
every seventh day for a sabbath ; though I found 
at the end of my account I had lost a day or two 
of my reckoning. 

A little afler this my ink began to fail me, and 
so I contented myself to use it more sparingly, and 
to write down only the most remarkable events of 
my life, without continuing a daily ^lemorandum 
of other things. 

The rainy season, and the dry season, began now 
to appear regular to me, and I learned to divide 



leS THE LIFE AXD ADVEXTURES 

Ihem so as to provide for them accordingly* Bot 
I bought all my experience before! had it; and 
this I am going to relate, was one of the most dis- 
coaraging experiments that I made at all. I have 
mentioned, that I had saved the few ears of barley 
and rice which I had so surprisingly found spring 
up, as I thought, of themselves, and believe there 
were about thirty stalks of rice, and about twenty 
of barley ; and now I thought it a proper time to 
sow it after the rains, the sun being in its southern 
position going from me. 

Accordingly I dug up a piece of ground, as well 
as I could, with my wooden spade, and dividing it 
into two parts, I sowed my grain ; but as I was 
sowing, it casually occurred to my thought, that I 
would not sow it all at first, because I ilid not 
know when was the proper time for it ; so I sow- 
ed about two-thirds of the seeds, leaving about a 
handful of each. 

It was a gret comfort to me afterwards that I 
djd so, for not one grain of that I sowed this time 
came to any thing; for the dry months following^ 
the earth having had no rain after the seed waa 
sown, it had no moisture to assist its growth^ and 
never came up at all, till the wet season had come 
again, and then it grew as if it had beeix newly 
sown. 

Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easi* 



OF ROBTNSON CRUSOE. 167 

ly imagined was by the drought, I soug^ fot a 
inoister piece of ground to make anotlkef trial in ; 
and I dug up a piece of ground n^ar my new bows- 
er, and sowed the rest of my seed in^ February, a 
little before the veiiial equinox^ and this;, having 
the rainy months of March and Apill to waiter it, 
sprung up Tery pleasantly, and yielded a very good 
crop ; but baring part of the seed left only, and not 
daring w sow all that I had jret, I had bat a small 
quantity at last, my whole crop not ambuntilig to 
above half a peck of each kind. 

But by this experience I was made stiaster of 
my business, and knew Exactly when the proper 
season was to sow; and that I might exped two 
seed-times, and two harvests, every y^ar. ""^ 

While this com was growing, I nfade a little dis- 
covery, which was of use to me afterwards. As 
soon as the rains were over, and the weothec began 
to settle, which was about the month ci Novem« 
ber, I made a visit Up the country lo my bower, 
where though I had not been soihe months, yet I 
found all things just as I left thegm. The eircle or 
double hedge that I had made, was not only firm 
and entire, but the stakes which I had cut off ef 
some trees that grew thereabouta^ were all shot 
out, and grown with long branchesf, as much as a 
willow tree usually shoots the first year after lop- 
ping its head. I could not tell what tree to call it 



16ft THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

that these stakes were cut firom. I was sarpri* 
sed, and yet very well pleased, to see the young 
trees grow ; and I pruned them, and led them up to 
grow as much alike as I could: and it is scarce ere* 
dible, how beautiful a figure they grew into in three 
years ; so that though the hedge made a circle of 
about twenty-five yards in diameter, yet the trees, 
for such I might now call them, soon covered it; 
and it was a complete shade, sufficient to lodge 
under all the dry season. 

This made me resolve to cut some more stakes^ 
and make me an hedge like this in a semicircle 
round my wall, I mean that of my first dwellings 
which 1 did ; and placing the trees, or stakes, in a 
double row, at above eight yards distance from my 
first fence, they grew presently, and were at first a 
fine cover to my habitation, and aficarwards served 
for a defence also, as I shall observe in its order. 

I found now, that the seasons of the year might 
generally be divided, not into summer and winter, 
as in Europe, but into the rainy seasons and the 
*dry seasons, which were generally thus : 

Jlalf February,^ 

March i^^y^ ^^® su^ being then on, or 
Half April,' ^ ^^^r, the equinox. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 169 

HalfAprilA 

M^y^f Dry, the sun being then to ths 
June, > ^^rth of |;he Line. 

Julyi 

Half August, ^^ 

'^®, ' *> Rain, the sun being then come 

Half October,-^ 
Half October, 

November, / Dry, the sun being then to the 
December, > uo^th of the Line. 

January,' 
Half February, 

The rainy season sometimes held longer or short- 
er, as the winds h&pp^ned to blow ; but this was 
the general observation I made. After I had 
found, by experience, the ill consequence of being 
abroad ^n the rain, I took care to furnish myself 
witl^ provision beforehand, that I might not be obli- 
ged to go out; and I sat within doors as much atf 
possible during the wet months. 

In this time I found much employment, (and 
very suitable also to the time,) for I found great 
occasion of many things which I had no way to 
furnish myself with, but by hard labour and con- 
stant application ; particularly, I tried many ways 
to make myself a basket; but all the twigs I 



170 THE LIF£ ANI> ADVENTURES 

could get for the purpose proved so brittle, that 
they would do nothing. It proved of excellent ad- 
vantage to me now, that when I was a boy I used 
to take great delight in standing at a basket-ma- 
ker's in the town where my fkther lived, to see 
them make their wicker-ware ; and being, as boys 
usually are, very officious to help, and a great ob- 
server of the manner how they worked those things, 
and sometimes lent an hand, I had by this means 
so full knowledge of the methods of it, that I want- 
ed nothing but the materials ; when it came into 
my mind, that the twigs of that tree from whence 
I cut my stakes that grew, might possibly be as 
tough as the sallows, and willows, and osiers, in 
England; and I resolved to try. 
, Accordingly, the next day I went to my country- 
house, as I called it ; and cutting some of the small- 
er twigs, I found them to my purpose as much as 
I could desh*e; whereupon I came the next time 
prepared with an hatchet to cut down a quantity, 
which I soon found, for there was a grieat plenty 
of them : these I set up to dry within my cir«le or 
faedge»: and when they were fit for me, I carried 
them to my cave ; and here, during the next sea* 
son, I employed myself in making (as well as I 
could) a great many baskets, both to carry earth* 
or to carry or lay up any thing, as I had occasion; 
and though I did not finish them very handsomely. 



I 



I 



OF ROBIXSON CRUSOE. 171 

yet I made them safficieatly serviceable for my 
purpose ; and thus afterwards I took care never to 
be without them : and as my wicker-ware decay- 
ed I made more; especially I made strong deep 
baskets to place my com in« instead of sacks, when 
I should come to have any quantity of it. 

Having mastered this difficulty, and employed 
a world of time about it, I bestirred myself to see, 
if possible, how to supply two wants. I had no 
vessels to hold any thing that was liquid, except 
two rundlets, which were almost full of rum, and 
some glass bottles, some of the common size, and 
others which were case-bottles square, for the hold-* 
ing of waters, spirits, &c. I had not so much as 
a pot to boil any thing in, except a great kettle 
which I saved out of the ship, and which was too 
big for such uses as I desired it for, viz. to make 
broth, and stew a bit of meat by itself. The se- 
cond thing I would fain have bad, was a tobacco* 
pipe, but it was impossible for me to make one ; 
however, I found a contrivance fcr that too at 
last. 

I employed myself in planting my second rows 
of stakes of piles, and in this wicker-wivk, all the 
summer, or dry season; when another business 
took me op more time than it could be imagined 
J coold spare. 



179 THE LIFE AKD ADVENTURES 



CHAP. VIII. 

Make a second Tour through the Island — Catch at 
young Pairot, which I afterwards teach to speak — 
Jkfy mode of sleeping at niglU'-^Find the other side 
of tlte Island much more pleasant than mine, and 
covered with Turtle and Sea-fowU^CkUch a young 
Kid which I tame^-^Retttm to my old habitO' 
Hot^^^Great plague with my Hanxst* 

I MENTIONED before, that I had a great mind to 
see the whole island, and that I had travelled up 
the brook, and ^o on to where I built my bower, 
and where I had an opening quite to the sea, on 
the other side of the island. I now resolved to 
travel quite across to the sea-shore on that side. 
So, taking my gun and hatchet, and my dog, and 
k larger quantity of powder and shot than usual, 
with two biscuit-cakes, and a great bunch of raisins 
in my pouch, for my store, I began my journey. 
When I had passed the vale where my bower 
Btpod, as above, I came within view of the sea, t^ 



Of ROBINSON CRUSOE. It3 

the west; and it being a very clear day, I fairly 
descried land, whether an island or continent I 
could not tell; but it lay very high, extending 
firom the west, to the W. S. W. at a very great dis- 
tance; by my guess it could not be less than 
fifteen or twenty leagues of£ 

I could not tell what part of the world this might 
be, otherwise than that I knew it must be part of 
America; and, as I concluded by all my observa- 
tions, must be near the Spanish dominions, and 
perhaps was all inhabited by savages, where if I 
should have landed, I had been in a worse condi- 
tion than I was now ; and therefore I acquiesced 
in the dispositions of Providence, which I began 
now to own, and to believe, ordered every thing 
for the best; I say, I quieted my mind with this, 
and left afflicting myself with fruitless wishes of 
being there. 

Besid^, after some pause upon this aflitir, I con- 
sidered, that if this land . was the Spanish coast, I 
should certainly, one time or other, see some vessels 
pass or repass one way or other ; but if not, then 
it was the savage coast between the Spanish coun- 
try and Brazil, which were indeed the worst of 
savages; for they are cannibals, or men-eaters, 
and fttil not to murder and devour all the human 
bodies that fall into their hands. 

With these considerations I walked very leisure*- 



174 THE UFB AND ADVENTURES 

ly fomrard. I found that side of the island where 
I BOW was, much pleasanter than nine, liie open 
or savanna fields sweet, adorned with flowers and 
grass, and full of yery fine woods. I saw abon* 
dance of parrots, and faAn would I have caught 
one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame, aux! 
taught it to speak to me. I did, after some pains- 
taking, catch a young parrot ; for I knocked it 
down with a stick, and having recovered it, I 
brought it home, but it was some years before I 
could make him speak. However, at last I taught 
him to call me by my name very iumiliarly : but 
the accident that followed, though it be a trifle, 
will be very diverting in its place. 

I was exceedingly diverted with this jonmey : I 
found in the low grounds, hares, as I thought them 
to be, and foxes, but they differed greatly from all 
the other kinds I had met with ; nor could I satis- 
fy myself to eat them, though I killed several : but 
I had no need to be venturous ; for I had no want 
of food, and of that which was very good too; es* 
pecially these three sorts, viz. goats, pigeons, and 
turtle or tortoise ; which added to my grapes, Lead- 
enhall-market could not have furnished a better 
table than I, in proportion to the company : and 
though my case was deplorable enough, yet I had 
great cause for thankfulness, that I was not driven 



OF ROBIHSON CSUSOB. 115 

to any esUiMiities fpr fooA ; but rather pleoty, even 
to daintiei. 

I never travelled in this j<numey above two miles 
q«brigbtia a day» or thereabouts; but I took so 
many inms and returns, to see what discoveries I 
could make, that I came weary enough to the 
place where I resolved to sit down for all night; 
^nd then either reposed myself in a tree, or sur- 
rounded myself vith a row of stakes set upright 
ia the ground, either from one tree to another, or 
flo as no wild xareatore qoidd come at me withoat 
waking me. 

As soon as I came to the sea^shore, I was sur- 
prised to see that I had taken up my lot on the 
worst side of the bland ; for here indeed the shorei 
was covered with innumerable turtles, whereas on 
the other side I had found but three in a year and 
an half. Here was also an infinite number of fowls 
of many kinds, some of which I had not seen be- 
fore, and many of them very good meat; but such 
as I knew not the names of, except those called pen- 
guins. 

I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was 
very sparing of my powder and shot : and there- 
fore had more mind to kill a she*goat, if I could, 
which I .could better feed on : and though there 
were many goats here more than on the other side 
of the island, yet it was with much more difficulty 



176 THE LIFE AND ADYENTURES 

that I coald come near them ; the country being 
flat and even, and they saw me much sooner than 
when I was on the hiils. 

I confess this side of the country was much 
pleasanter than mine, but yet I had not the least 
inclination to remove; for as I was fixed in my ha- 
bitation, it became natural to me, and I seemed all 
the while I was here to be, as it were, upon a jour- 
ney, and from home : however, I travelled along 
the shore of the sea towards the east, I suppose, 
about twelve miles ; and then setting up a great 
pole upon the shore for a mark, I concluded I 
would go home again; and the next journey I 
took should be on the other side of the island, east 
from my dwelling, and so round, till I came to my 
post again : of which in its place. 

I took another way to come back than that I 
went, thinking I could easily keep all the island so 
much in my view, that I could not miss finding my 
first dwelling by viewing the*country : but I found 
myself mistaken; for, being come about two or 
three miles, I found myself descended into a very 
large valley; but so surrounded with hills, and 
those hills covered with woods, that I could not see 
which was my way by any direction but that of 
the sun ; nor even then, unless I knew very well 
the position of the sun at that time of the day. 

Jt happened, to my farther misfortune, that the 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ItT 

veatfaer proved hazy for three or four days, while 
I was in this valley ; and not being able to see 
the sun, I wandered about very uncomfortably, and 
at last was obliged to find out the sea-side, look 
for my post, and come back the same way I went; 
and then by easy joumies I turned homeward, 
ike weather being exceeding hot ; and my gun, 
ammunition, hatchet, and other things, very heavy. 

In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, 
and ^ei^ed upon- it ; and I running in to take hold 
of it^ caught it, and saved it alive from the dog. 
I had a great mind to bring it home, if I could : 
for I had often been musing whether it might not 
be possible to get a kid or two, and so raise a breed 
of tame goats, which might supply me when my 
powder and shot should be spent. 

I made a collar for this little creature, and wiUi 
a string which I made of some rope-yam, which t 
always carried about me, I led him along, though 
with some difficulty, till I came to my bower, and 
there I enclosed him, and left him, for I was very 
impatient to be at home, from whence I had been 
absent above a month. 

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to 
me to come into my old hutch, and lie down in my 
hammock-bed : this little wandering journey, wttb-> 
out a settled place of abode, had been so unplea- 
saAt to me, that my own house, as I called it to 

vol.. |. M 



\ 



178 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

myselff was a perfect nettlement to me, compaired 
to that; and it rendered every thing about me so 
comfortable, -that I resolved I would never go a 
great way from it again, while it should be my lot 
to stay on the island* 

I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regak 
myself after my long journey ; during which, most 
of the time was taken up in the weighty afiair of 
making a cage for my Pol, who began now to be a 
mere domestic, and to be mighty well acquainted 
with me. Then I began to think of the poor kid 
which I had pent in within my little circle, and 
resolved to go and fetch it home, and give it some 
food ; accordingly I went, and found it where Heft 
it; for indeed it could not get out, but was almost 
starved for want of food, I went and cut bongbs 
of trees and branches of such shrubs as I could 
find, and threw it over, and, having fed it, I tied it 
as I did before to lead it away; but it was so tame 
with being hungry, that I had no need to have tied 
it, for it followed me like a dog ; and as I conti- 
nually fed it, the qreature became so loving, so 
gentle, and so fond, that it became from that time 
one of my domestics also* and would never leave 
me afterwards. 

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was 
now come, and I kept the 30th. of September in 
tJie same solemn manner as before, being the ^nni- 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 179 

Tenary of my landing on the island, having now 
been there two years, and no more prospect of 
being delivered than the first day I came there; I 
spent the whole day in humble and thankful ac- 
knowledgments of the many wonderful mercies 
which my solitary condition was attended with, 
and without which it might have been infinitely 
more miserable. I gave humble and hearty thanks, 
that God had been pleased to discover to me even 
that it was possible I might be more happy in this 
solitary condition than I should have been in a 
liberty of society, and in all the pleasures of the 
world : that he could fully make up to me the de^ 
ficiencles of my solitary state, and the want of hu* 
man society, by his presence, and the communica* 
tion of his grace to my soul, supporting, comfort- 
ing, and encouraging me' to depend upon his pro- 
vidence here, and hope for his eternal presence 
hereafter. 

It was now that I began sensibly to feel how 
much more happy the life I now led was, with all 
Its miserable circumstances, than the wicked, cur- 
sed, abominable life I led all the past part of my 
days ; and now, having changed both my scntows 
and my joys, my very desires altered, my affec- 
tions changed their gust, and my delights were 
perfectly new from what they were at first coming, 
or indeed for the two years p^t* 



180 THB LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting, 
or £oT viewing the country, the anguish of my soul 
at my condition would break out upon me on a 
sudden, and my very heart would die within me 
to think of the woods, the mountains, the deserts 
I was in; and how I was a prisoner, locked up 
with the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in an 
uninhabited wilderness, without redemption. In 
the midst of the greatest composures of my mind, 
this would break out upon me like a storm, and 
made me wring my hands, and weep like a child. 
Sometimes it would take me in the middle of my 
work, and I would immediately sit down and sigh, 
and look upon the ground for an hour or two to- 
gether, and this was still worse to me ; for if I 
could bur^ out into tears, or vent myself by words, 
it would go off; and the grief, haying exhausted 
itself, would abate. 

But now I began to exercise myself with new 
thoughts; I daily read the word of God, and ap- 
plied all the comforts of it to my present state. 
One morning being very sad, I opened the Bible 
upon these words, '* I will neyer, never leave thee, 
nor forsake thee !'* Immediately it occurred, that 
these words were to me; why else should they be 
directed in such a manner, just at the moment 
when I was mourning over my condition, as one 
forsaken of God and man ? " Well then/' said I^ 



OF ROBIKSON CRUSOE. 161 

^ if God does not forsake me, of what ill conse- 
quence can it be, or what matters it though the 
world should all forsake me ; seeing, on the other 
hand, if I had all the world, and should lose the fa- 
vour and blessing of Grod, there would be no com- 
parison in the loss ?" 

From this moment I began to conclude in my 
mind, that it was possible for me to be more happy 
in this forsaken, solitary condition, than it was pro- 
bable I should have ever been in any other parti- 
cular state in the world; and with this thought I 
was going to give thanks to God for bringing me 
to this place. 

I know not what it was, but something shocked 
my mind at that thought, and I durst not speak 
the words. " How canst thou be such an hypocrite," 
said I, even audibly, '' to pretend to be thankful 
for a condition, which, however thou mayst endea- 
vour to be contented with, thou wouldst rather 
pray heartily to be delivered from y' So I stopped 
' there ; but though I could not say I thanked God 
for being there, yet I sincerely gave thanks to God 
for opening my eyes, by whatever afflicting provi- 
dences, to see the former condition of my life, and 
to mourn for my wickedness, and repent. I never 
opened the Bible, or shut it, but my very soul 
within me blessed God for directing my friend in 
England, without any order of min^ to pack it up 



189 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

among my goods* and for assisting me afterwards 
to save it out of the wreck of the ship* 

Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began 
my third year; and though I have not given the 
reader the trojible of so particular an account of 
my works this year as at the first, yet in general it 
may be observed, that I was very sel<k)m idle; 
having regularly divided my time according to the 
several daily employments that were before me ; 
such as, first, my duty to God, and reading the 
scriptures, which I constantly set apart some time 
for, thrice every day : secondly, the going abroad 
with my gun for food, which generally took me 
up thtee hours every morning when it did not 
rain : thirdl}', the ordering, curing, preserving, 
and cooking what I had killed or catched for my 
supply; these took up great part of the day : also 
it is to be considered, that in the middle of the day, 
when the sun was in the zenith, the violence of 
the heat was too great to stir out ; so that about 
four hours in the evening was all the time 1 could 
be supposed to work in ; with this exce|)tton, that 
sometimes I changed my hours of hunting and 
working, and went to work in the tBoming, and 
abroad with my gun in the afternoon. 

To this short time alkvwed for labour, I desire 

may be added the exceeding laborioasness of my 

'^ork; the many hours, wfatcb, for want of tool's, 

ant ot help, and want of skill, every thing that I 



OP ROBINSON CRUSOE. 183 

Sfd^ took up out of my time : for example, I was 
fall two-and-forty days making me a board for a 
kmg shelf, which I wanted in my cave ; whereas 
two sawyers, with their tools and saw^pit, would 
have cut six of them out of the same tree in half a 
dav. 

My case was this: it was to be a large tree 
which was to be cut down, because my board was 
to be a broad one. The tree I was three days a 
cutting down, and two more cutting off the boughs, 
and reducing it to a log, or piece of timber. With 
inexpressible hacking and hewing, I reduced both 
the sides of it into chips, till it began to be light 
enough to move; then I turned it, and made one 
side of it smooth and flat, as a board, from end to 
end : then, turning that side downward, cut the 
other side till I brought the plank to be about three 
inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Any one 
may judge the labour of my hands in such a piece 
of work; but labour and patience carried me 
through that ahd many other things : I only ob- 
serve this in particular, to shew the reason vt^y so 
much of my time went away with so little work, 
viz. that what might be a litde to be doue wkh 
help and tools, was a vast labour, and required a . 
prodigious time, to do alone, and by hand. 

Bat notwithstanding this, with patience ai 
hour, I went through many things, and ii 



184 THE UFB AND ADVENTURES 

4svery thing that my circamstances made necessary 
for me to do, as will appear by what follows^ 
I was now in the months of November and 

» • . . . 

December, expecting my crop of barley and rice. 
The ground I had manured or dug up for them 
was not great ; for, as I observed, my seed of each, 
was not above the quantity of half a peck ; for I 
had lost one whole crop by sowing in the dry sea- 
son ; but now my crop promised very well, when 
on a sudden I found I was in danger of losing it all 
again by enemies of several sorts, which it was 
scarce possible to keep from it; as first, the goats, 
and wild creatures which I called hares, which, 
tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night 
and day> as soon as it came up, and ate it so close, 
that it could get no time to shoot up into stalks. 

This I saw no remedy for but by making an en* 
closure about it with a hedge, which I did with a 
great deal of toil; and the more, because it re- 
quired a great deal of speed ; the ^creatures daily 
spoiling my corn. However, as my arable laud 
was but small, suited to my crop, I got it totally 
well fenced in about three weeks time, and shoot* 
ing some of the creatures in the daytime, I set my^ 
dog to guard it in the night;^ tying him up to a 
stake at the gate, where he would stand and bark 
all night long; so in a little time the enemies for* 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 18d 

sook the place, and the com grew very strong and 
well, and began to ripen apace. 

But as the beasts ruined me before, while my 
corn was in the blade, so the birds were as likely 
to ruin me now, when it was in the ear ; for, going 
along by the place to see how it throve, I saw my 
little crop surrounded with fowls of I know not 
how many sorts, which stood as it were watching 
till I should be gone. I immediately let fly among 
them (for I always had my gun with me.) I had 
no sooner shot, but there arose up a little cloud of 
fowls, which I had not seen at all, from among the 
com itself. 

This touched me sensibly; for I foresaw, that 
in a few days they would devour all my hopes ; 
that I should be starved, and never be able to raise 
a crop at all; and what to do I could not tell : how- 
ever, I resolved not to lose my corn, if possible, 
though I should watch it night and day« In the 
first place, I went among it to see what damage 
was already done, and found they had spoiled a 
good deal of it ; but that, as it was yet too green 
for them, the loss was not so great, but the re- 
mainder was like to be a good crop, if it could be 
saved. 

I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming 
away, I could easily see the thieves sitting upon all 
the trees, about me, as if they only waited till I 



185 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

was gone away, and the event proved it to be so ; 
for, as I walked off as if I was gone, I was no 
•Doner out of their sight, but they dropped down 
one by one into the com again. I was so pro« 
Toked, that I could not have patience to stay till 
more came on, knowing that every grain that they 
ate now was, as it might be said, a peck loaf to 
me in the consequence; but, coming up to the 
hedge, I fired again, and killed three of them. 
This was what I wished for; so I took them up, 
and served them as we serve notorious thipves in 
England, vi?. hanged them in chains for a terror to 
others. It is impossible to imagine almost, that 
this should have such an effect as it had ; for the 
fowls would not only not come at the com, but in 
short they forsook all that part of the island, and I 
could never see a bird near the place as long as 
my scarecrows hung there. 

This I was very glad of, you may be sure ; and 
about the latter end of December, which was our 
second harvest of the year, I reaped my com. 

I was sadly put to it for a scythe or a sickle to 
«ut it down, and all I could do was to make one 
as well as I could out of one of the broad-swords, 
or cutlasses, which I saved among the arms out 
of the ship. However, as my crop was but small, 
I had no great diiBculty to cut it down : in short, 
I ceaped it my way, for I cut nothing off but the 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. IST 

can, and carried it away in a great basket which 
I had made» and so rubbed it out with my hands : 
and, at the end of all my harvesting, I found, that 
out of my half-peck of seed I had near two bushels 
of rice, and above two busliels and a half of barley, 
that is to say by my guess, for I had no measure 
at that time. 

However, this was a great encouragement to me; 
and I foresaw, that in time it would please God to 
supply me with bread : and yet here I was per* 
plexed again ; for I neither knew how to grind or 
make meal of my com, or indeed how to clean it 
and part it ; nor, if made into meal, how to make 
bread of it ; and if how to make it, yet I knew not 
how to bake it. These things being added to my 
desire of having a good quantity for store, and to 
secure a constant supply, I resolved not to taste any 
of this crop, but to preserve it all for seed against 
the itext season, and in the mean time to employ 
all my study and hours of working, to accomplish 
this great work of providing myself with corn and 
bread. 

It might be truly said, that I now worked for 
my bread. It is a little wonderfol, and what I be- 
lieve fow people have thought much upon ; viz. 
the strange multitude of little tilings necessary in 
the providing, producing, curing, dressing, making; 
aftd finishing this one aiticje of bread. 



188 TH£ LIF£ AND ADVENTURES 

I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature^ 
foand this to be my daily discouragement, and 
was made more and more sensible of it every hoar, 
even after I got the first handful of seed com, 
which, as I have said, came up unexpectedly, and 
indeed to a surprise. • 

First, I had no plough to turn the earth, no spade 
or shovel to dig it W.eU, this I conquered by 
making a wooden spade, as I observed before ; but 
this did my work but in a wooden manner; and 
though it cost me a great many days to make it, 
yet, for want of iron, it not only wore out the 
sooner, but made my work the harder, and made 
it be performed much worse. 

Ho;vrever, this I bore with too, and wa» content 
to work it out with patience, ^d bear with the 
badness of the performance. When the com was 
sowed, I had no harrow, but was forced to go over 
it myself, and drag a great heavy bough of a tree 
over it, to scratch the eartliu ^ it may be called, 
rather than rake or harrow it. 

When it was growing, or grown, I have observed 
already how many things I wanted, to fence it, se-^ 
cure it, mow or reap it, cure or carry it home, 
thresh, part it from the chafi^ and save it Then I 
wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast 
and salt to make it into bread, and an oven to bake 
it in; and all these things I did without, as shall 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOK. 189 

be observed ; and yet the corn was an inestimable 
comfort and advantage to me too. But all this, as I 
said, made every thing laborious and tedious to me, 
but that there was no help for : neither was my 
time so much loss to me, because I had divided it; 
a certain part of it was every day appointed to 
these works; and as I resolved to use none of the 
com for bread till I had a greater quantity by me, 
I had the next six months to apply myself wholly, 
by labour and invention, to furnish myself with 
utensils proper for the performing all the opera- 
tions necessary for making the corn, when I had 
it, fit for my use. 

But first I was to prepare more land, for I had 
now seed enough to sow above an acre of ground. 
Before I did this, I had a week's work at least to 
make me a spade, which, when it was done, was* 
a very sorry one indeed, and very heavy, and rcr 
quired double labour to work with it ; however, I 
went through that, and sowed my seeds in two 
large fiat pieces of ground, as near my house as I 
could find them to my mind, and fenced them in 
with a good hedge, the stakes of which were all 
cut off that wood which I had set befbre> which I 
knew would grow; so that in one year's time I 
knew I should have a quick or living hedge, that 
would want but little repair. This work was not 
/io little as to take me up less than three months ; 



190 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

because great pait of that time was in the wet aea- 
SOD, when 1 coald not go abroad. 

Within-door, that is» when it rained, and I 
conld not go out, I fimnd employment on the fol* 
lowing occasion, always observing, that all the 
while I was at work, I diverted myself with talking 
to ray parroty and teaching him to speak ; and I 
qnickly learnt him to know his own name ; at last, 
to speak it out pretty loud, Pol; which was Che 
fint word I ever heard spoken in the island by any 
mouth but my own. This therefore was not my 
woric, but an assistant to my work; for now, as I 
said, I had a great employment upon my hands, as 
follows : viz. I had long studied, by some means 
or other, to make myself some earthen vessels, 
which indeed I wanted sorely, but knew not where 
to come at them : however, considering the heat 
of the climate, I did not doubt but, if I could find 
out any such clay, I might botch up some such 
pot as might, being dried by the sun, be hard 
enough and strong enough to bear handling, and 
to hold any thing that was dry, and required to be 
kept so ; and as this was necessary in preparing 
corn, meal, &c. which was the thing I was upon, I 
resolved to make some as large as I could, and fit 
only to stand like jan to hold what should be put 
into them. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. I9t 



CHAP. K. 

/ aUempt to moidd earthen ware, and succeed — Dc" 
scription ofm^ mode of baking^^Begin to make m- 
hoot — After it isfinisHied, am unable to get it dovn^ 
to the water — Seriom reflectians-^My ink and bis- 
cuit exhausted, and clotlies in a bad ^^rd^e—oGm* 
trive to make a dress qf skins. 

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugk 
at me, to tell how many awkward ways I took to 
raise this paste, what odd mis-shapen ugly things 
I made, how many of them fell in, and how many 
fell out, the clay not being stiff enough to bear it^ 
own weight ; how many cracked by the over* 
yiolent heat of the sun, being set out too hastily ; 
and how many fell to pieces with only removing^ 
as well before as. after they were dried; and, in a 
word, how, after having laboured hard to find the 
clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home, and 
work it, I could not make above two large eartheQ 



19S THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ugly things^ t cannot call them jars, in about two 
months labour. 

However, as the sun baked these two very dry 
and hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set them 
down again in two g^at wicker-baskets, which I 
had made on purpose for them, that they might 
not break ; and, as between the pot and the basket 
there was a little room to spare, I stufied it full of 
the rice and barley straw; and these two pots 
being to stand always dry, I thought would hold 
my dry com, and perhaps the meal when the com 
was bruised. 

Though I miscarried so much in my design for 
large pots, yet I made several smaller things with 
better success; such as little round pots, flat dishes, 
pitchers, and pipkins, and any thing my hand 
turned to ; and the heat of the sun baked them 
strangely bard* 

But all this would not answer my end, which 
was to get an earthen pot to hold what was liquid, 
and bear the fire, which none of these could do. 
It happened after some time, making a pretty 
large fire for cooking my meat, when I went to put 
it out, afler I had done y^ith it, I found a broken 
piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the fire, 
burnt as hard as a stone, and red as a tile. I was 
agreeably surprised to 9ee it, and said to myself, 
8 



OF BUHINBUH CKUSUB. 



/ eitea^ to mould earthen ware, and nicctei — De- 
Kriptiem ofm/ mode of bakiJig— Begin to make m 
boat— After it isjinislied, am unable to get it dawn 
to the water — Seriata r^lections—'Mi/ tn£ and bit- 
cuit eihaiuted, and dallies in a bad $t(Ue-~Con- 
irive to make a dress qf skim. 

J.T wnnld make the TesiHer nitv ini>. np mthpr laiiirk 



194 THE LIFB AND ADVENTURES 

needs 8ay» as to the shapes of thero^ they were 
very indifierent, as any one may suppose^ when I 
had no way of making thern^ but as the children 
make dirt-pies, or as a woman would make pies 
that never learnt to raise paste. 

No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever 
equal to mine> when I found I had made an earthen 
pot that would bear the fire ; and I had hardly pa- 
tience to stay till they were cold, before I set one 
upon the fire again with some water in it, to boil 
me some meat, which I did admirably well ; and 
with a piece of a kid I made some very good broth, 
though I wanted oatmeal, and several other ingre- 
dients requisite to make it so good as I would have 
had it 

My next concern was to get me a stone mortar 
to stamp or beat some corn in ; for as to the mill, 
there was no thought of arriving to that perfection 
of art with one pair of hands. To supply this 
want, I was at a great loss; for of all trades in the 
world I was as perfectly unqualified for a stone- 
cutter, as for any whatever; neither had I any 
tools to go about it with. I spent many a day to 
find out a great stone big enough to cut hollow, 
and make fit for a mortar, and could find none at 
all except what was in the solid rock, and which I 
had no way to dig or cut out; nor indeed were 

the rocks in the island of hardness sufficient, but 

8 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 195 



i 



were all of a sandy cratnbling stone, tvhich wotild 
neither bear tbe weight of an heavy pestle, nor 
would break the com without filling it with sand ; 
so, after a great deal of titne lost m searching for 
a stone, I gave it over, and resolted to look out a 
great block of hard wood, which I found indeed 
much easier; and, getting one as big as I had 
strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed it oit 
the outside with my axe and hatchet ; and then 
with the help of fire and infinite labour, made an 
hollow place in it, as the Indians in Brazil make 
their canoes. After this, I made a great heavy 
pestle, or beater, of the wood called the iron-wood, 
and this I prepared and laid by against I had my 
next crop of com, when I proposed to myself to 
grind, or rather pound, my corn or meal to make 
my bread. 

My next difficulty was to make a sieve or scarce, 
to dress my meal, and part it from' the bran and 
the husk, without which I did not see it possible 
] could have any bread. This was a most difficult 
thing, so much as but to think on; for to be sure 
I had nothing like the necessary things to make it 
with ; I mean fine thin canvass, or stufi^ to scarce 
the meal through. And here I was at a full stop 
. for many months ; nor did I really know what to 
do ; linen I had none left but what was mere rags ; 
I had goat's hair, but neither knew I how to weave 



196 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES. 

or spin it ; and had I known how, here were no 
tools to work it with* All the remedy that I found 
for this, was, that at last I did remember I had 
among the seamen's clothes which were saved out 
of the ship, some neckcloths of calico or muslin ; and 
with some pieces of these I made three small sieves^ 
but proper enough for the work ; and thus I made 
shifl for some years ; how I did afterwards, I shall 
shew in its place. 

The baking part was the next thing to be con« 
sidered, and how I should make bread when I came 
to have corn ; for, first, I had no yeast : as to that 
part, there was no supplying the want, so I did not 
concern myself much about it. But for an oven^ 
I was indeed in great pain. At length I found out 
an experiment for that also, which was this: I 
made some earthen vessels very broad, but not 
deep ; that is to say, about two feet diameter, and 
not above nine inches deep; these I burnt in the 
fire, as I had done the others, and laid them by; 
and when I wanted to bake, I made a great fire 
upon the hearth, which I had paved with some 
square tiles of my own making and burning also ; 
but I should not call them square. 

When the fire-wood was burnt pretty much into 
embers, or live coals, I drew them forward upon 
this hearth, so as to cover it all over; and there I let 
them lie, till the hearth tyas very hot; then sweep- 
ing away all the embers, I set down my loaf, or 




OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. m 

loaves, and whelming down the earthen pot upon 
them, drew the embers all round the outside of the 
pot, to keep in, and add to the heat : and thus, as 
well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my 
barley-loaves^ and became in a little time a mere 
pastry-cook into the bargain'; for I made myself 
several cakes of the rice, and puddings ; indeed I 
made no pies, neither had I any thing to put into 
them, supposing I had, except the flesh either of 
fowls or goats. 

It need not be wondered at, if all these things 
took me up most part of the third year of my abode 
here ; for it is to be observed, that in the intervals 
of these things I had my new harvest and hus- 
bandry to manage : for I reaped my corn in its 
season, and carried it home as well as I could, and 
laid it up in the ear, in my large baskets, till I had 
time to rub it out ; for I had no floor to thresh it 
on, or instrument to thresh it with. 

And now indeed my stock of corn increasing, I 
really wanted to build my barns bigger : I wanted 
a place to lay it up in ; for the increase of the corn 
now yielded me so much, that I had of the barley 
* about twenty bushels, and of the rice as much, or 
'inore ; insomuch that I now resolved to begin to 
use it freely, for my bread had been quite gone a 
great while; also I resolved to see what quantity 
would be sufficient for me a whole year, and to so^ 
but o^ce a year. 



193 THE LIFB AND ADVENTURES 

Upon the whole« I foand that the forty bushels 
of barley and rice were much more thau I could 
consume in a year : so I resolved ti> sow just the 
same quantity every year that I sowed the last, in 
hopes that such a quantity would fully provide me 
with bread, &c. 

All the while these things were doing, you may 
be sure my thoughts ran many times upon the 
prospect of land which I had seen from the other 
side of the island; and I was not without secret 
wishes, that I was on shore there, fancying that 
seeing the main land, and an inhabited country, 
I might find some way or other to convey myself 
farther, and perhaps at last find some means of 
escape. 

But all this while I made no allowance for the 
dangers of such a condition, and how I might fall 
into the hands of savages, and perhaps such as I 
might have reason to think far worse than the lions 
and tygers of Africa : that, if I once came into their 
power, I should run an hazard more than a thou- 
sand to one of being killed, and perhaps of being 
eaten ; for I had heard that the people ^f the Cari- 
bean coasts were cannibals, or men-eaters ; and I 
knew by the latitude, that I could not be far off 
from that shore : that, suppose they were not can* 
nibals, yet they might kill me, as many Europeans 
who had fallen into their hands had been served. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 11)0 

even when they had been ten or twenty together; 
much more I that was but one, and coold make 
little or no defence. All these things, I say, which 
I ought to haye considered well of» and I did cast 
up in my thoughts afterwards, yet took none of my 
apprehensions at first; and my head ran mightily 
upon the thoughts of getting over to that shore. 

Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long- 
boat, with the shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which 
I sailed above a thousand miles on the coast of 
Africa ; but this was in vain. Then I thought I 
would go and look on our ship's boat, jvhich, as I 
have said, was blown up upon the shore a great way 
in the storm, when we were first cast away. She 
lay almost where she did at firs^ but not quite ; 
and was turned by the force of the waves and the 
winds, almost bottom upwards, against the high 
ridge of a beachy rough sand, but no water about 
her as before. 

If I had had hands to have refitted her, and have 
launched her into the water; the boat would have 
done well enough, and I might have gone back in- 
to the Brazils with her easy enough; bat I might 
have easily foreseen, that I could no more turn her, 
and set her upright upon her bottom, than I could 
remove the island. However, I went to the wood, 
and cut levers and rollers, and brought them to 
the boat, resolving to try what I could do; sug- 
gesting to myself, that if I could but turn her down> 



too THE LIFE AXD ADVENTURES 

I might easily repair the damage she had received, 
and she would be a very good boat, and I might 
go to sea in her very easily. 

I spared no pains indeed in this piece of fruitless 
toil> and spent, I think, three or four weeks about 
it; at last, finding it impossible to heave it up with 
my little strength, I fell to digging away the sand 
•to undermine it ; and so to make it fall down, set- 
ting pieces of wood to thrust and guide it right in 
the fkll. 

But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it 
up again, or to get under it, much less to move it 
forwards towards the water ; so I was forced to give 
it over: and yet, though I gave over the hopes of 
the boat, my desire to venture over for the main 
increased, rather than decreased, as the means for 
it seemed impossible. 

This at length set me upon thinking whether it 
was not possible to make myself a canoe or periagua^ 
such as the natives of those climates make, even 
without tools, or, as I might say, without hands, 
viz. of the trunk of a great tree. This I not only 
thought possible, but easy; and pleased myself 
extremely with my thoughts of making it, and with 
my having much more convenience for it than any 
of the negroes or Indians; but not at all consider- 
ing the particular inconveniences which I lay under 
more than the Indians did, viz. want of bands to 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. S01 

jnove it into the water, when it was made ; a diifi- 
calty much harder for me to surmount than all the 
consequences of want of tools could be to them : 
for what was it to me, that, when I had chosen a 
yast tree in the woods, I might with great trouble 
cut it down, if aiier I might be able with my took 
to hew and dub the outside into a proper shape of 
a boat, and bum or cut out the inside to make it 
hollow, so as to make a boat of it, if, after all this, 
^ I must leave it just there where I found it, and was 
not able to launch it into the water ? 

One would have thought, I could not have had 
the least reflection upon my mind of my circum- 
stances, while I was making this boat, but I should 
have immediately thought how I should get it into 
the sea ; but my thoughts were so intent upon my 
voyage over the sea in it, that I never once con- 
sidered how I should get it off the land; and it was 
really in its own nature more easy for me to guide 
it over forty-five miles of sea, than about forty- 
five fathoms of land, where it lay, to set it afloat in 
the water* 

I went to work upon this boat the most like a 
fool that ever man did, who had any of his senses 
awake. I pleased myself with the design, with- 
out determining whether I was ever able to under**' 
take it; not but that the difhculty of launching my 
boat came often into my head; but I put a stop ta 



Vn THE LIFE AND ADVEXTURES 

my own toquiries into it by this foolish answer, 
which f gave myself; " Let me first make it, I'll 
warrant I'll find some way or other to get it aloo^ 
wbeu it is done." 

This was a most preposterom method ; but the 

eagerness of my fancy prevailed, and to work I 

went, and felled a cedar tree : I question much 

whether Solomon ever had such an one for the 

baikling the temple at Jernaalem. It was five feet 

ten inches diameter at the tower part next the 

stump, and four feet eleven iuchea diameter at 

the end of twenty-two feet, after which it leswned 

for a while, and then parted into branches. It was 

not without infinite labour that I felled this tree : 

I was twenty days hacking and hewing at it at the 

bottom ; I was fourteen more getting the branches 

and limba, and the vast spreading head of it, cut 

efF, which I backed and hewed through with my 

axe and hatchet, with inexpressible labour ; after 

tbift it cost me a month to shape it, and dub it to a 

nmnnrtlnn, and to something like the bottom of a 

it might Bwim upright as it ought to do, 

near three months more to clear the iu- 

irork it out so as to make aa exact boat 

I did indeed without fire, by mere m^ 

issel, and by the dint of hard labour, till 

Jght it to be a very handsome penagua, 

ioough to have carriea six-and-twen^ 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 20:1 

men, and conaequeatly big enough to have carried 
me and all my cargo. 

When I had gone through this work* I was ex- 
tremely delighted with it: the boat was really 
much bigger than I ever saw a canoe or periagua» 
that was made of one tree, in my life ; many a 
weary stroke it had cost, you may be sure, for there 
remained nothing but to get it into the water; and 
had I gotten it into the water, I make no question 
but I should have begun the maddest voyage, and 
the most unlikely to be performed* that ever was 
undertaken. 

But all my devices to get it into the water failed 
me, though they cost infinite labour too; it lay 
about one hundred yards from the water, and noi 
more ; but the first inconvenience was, it was up 
hill towards the creek. Well, to take away this 
discouragement, I resolved to dig into the surface 
of the earth, and so make a declivity; this I begau» 
and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains : but who 
grudge pains, that have their deliverance in view? 
but when this was worked through, and this diffi^ 
culty managed, it was still much atone; for I could 
no more stir the canoe, than I could the other 
boat. 

Then I measured the distance of ground, and rp 
solved to cut a dock, or canal, to bring the wa( 
up to the canoe, seeing I could not bring the can 



tOI THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

down to the water : well I began this work, and 
when I began to enter into it, and calculated how 
deep it was to be dug, how broad, how the stuff 
to be thrown out, I found, that by the number of 
hands I had, being none but my own, it must have 
•been ten or twelve years before I should have gone 
through with it ; for the shore lay high, so that at 
the upper end it must have been at least twenty 
feet deep : so at length, though with great reluc- 
tancy, I gave this attempt over also. 

This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though 
too late, the folly of beginning a work before we 
count the cost, and before we judge rightly of our 
own strength to go through with it. 

In the middle of this work I finished my fourth 
year in this place, and kept my anniversary with 
the same devotion, and with as much comfort,* as 
ever before; for, by a constant study, and serious 
application of the word of God, and by the assist- 
-ance of his grace, I gained a different knowledge 
from what I had before; I entertained difierent no- 
tions of things; I looked now upon the world as a 
thing remote, which I had nothing to do with, no 
expectation from, and indeed no desires about : in 
a word, I had nothing indeed to do with it, nor was 
ever like to have; so I thought it looked as we may 
perhaps look upon it hereafter; viz. as a place I 
had lived in, but was come out of it; and well I 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB* ^f» 

jnight say, as father Abraham to Diyes> " Between 
me and thee there is a great gulf fixed." 

In the first place, I was removed from all the 
i^ickedness of the world here : I had neither the 
lust of the fleshy the lust of the eye, or the pride of 
life : I had nothing to covet, for I had all I wa» 
now capable of enjoying; I was lord of the whole 
manor, or, if I pleased, I might call myself king or 
emperor over the whole country which I had pos* 
session of; there was no rivals ; I had no compe* 
titor, none to dispute sovereignty or command with 
me ; I might have raised ship-loadings of corn, but 
I had no use for it; so I let as little grow as I 
tliought enough for my occasion : I had tortoises or ' 
turtles enough ; but now and then one was as much 
as I could put to any use : I had timber enough to 
have built a fleet of ships ; I had grapes enough to 
have made wine, or to have cured into raisins, to 
have loaded that fleet when they had been built 

But all I could make use of, was all that was 
valuable : I had enough to eat, and to supply my 
wants, and what was all the rest to me ? If I killed 
more flesh than I could eat, the dog must eat it, or 
the vermin; if I sowed more corn than I could eal;^ 
it must be spoiled. The trees that I eut down 
were lying to rot on the ground, I could make no 
more use of them than for fuel ; and that I had n» 
occasion for, but to dress mv food,^ 



SOa THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

In a word, the mttire and experience of th!ng9 
dictated to roe, upon just reflection, that all the 
good things of thu world arc no farther good to ns, 
than Bi they are for oar uie : end that whatever 
we may heap np indeed to give to others, we enjoy 
as much at we can uie, and no more. The most 
covetous griping miser in the world would have been 
cured of the rice of covetousneis, if be had been 
in my case; for I possessed infinitely more than I 
knew what to do with. I had no room for desire, 
except it was of things which I had not, aad they 
were bat trifles, though indeed of great ose to me. 
I had, ss I hinted before, a parcel of money, as 
well gold as silver, about thirty-six pounds sterling; 
alas', there the nasty, sorry, useless stufflay; I had 
no manner of business for it; uid I often thooght 
with myself, that I would have given an handful 
of it for a gross of tobacco-pipes, or for an hand- 
mill to grind my com; nay, I wootd have given 
it all for six-peony worth of tuniip and carrot seed 
out of England, or for an handfiil of peas and beans, 
■nil a knHiA nt inir : as it was, I had not the least 
' benefit from it; but there it 
d grew mouMy with the damp 
: wet seasoR; and if I had had 
Itamonds, it had been the same 
I been of no manner of value 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 20T 

I had now brought my state of life to be much 
easier in itself than it was at first, and much easier 
to my mind, as well as to my body. I frequently 
sat down to my meat with thankfulness, and ad- 
mired the hand of God's providence, which had 
thus spread my table in the wilderness: I learnt 
to look more upon the bright side of my condition, 
and less upon the dark side ; and to consider what 
I enjoyed, rather than what I wanted ; and this 
gave me sometimes such secret comforts, that I 
cannot express them ; and which I take notice of 
here, to pat those discontented people in mind of 
it, who cannot enjoy comfortably what God hath 
given them, because they see and covet something 
that he has not given them : all our discontents 
about what we want, appeared to me to spring 
from the want of thankfulness for what we have. 

Another reflection was of great ase to me, and 
doubtless would be so to any one that should fall 
into such distress as mine was ; and this was, to 
compare my present condition with what I at first 
expected it should be; nay, with what it would 
certainly have been, if the good providence of God 
had not wonderfully ordered the. ship to be cast up 
near to the shore, where I not only could come at 
her, but could bring what I got out of her to the 
shore for my relief and comfort; without which I 



SOS THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

had wanted tools to work, weapons for defence, or 
gunpowder and shot for getting my food. 

I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in 
representing to myself, in the most lively colours^ 
how I must have acted, if I had got nothing out of 
the ship ; how I could not have so much as got 
any food, except fish and turtles ; and that, as it 
was long before I found any of them, I must have 
perished first : that I should have lived, if I had 
not perished, like a mere savage : that if I had 
killed a goat or a fowl by any contrivance, I had 
no way to flay or open them, or part the flesh 
from the skin and the bowels, or to cut it up ; but 
must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it with my 
claws, like a beast 

These reflections made me very sensible of the 
goodness of Providence to me, and very thankful 
for my present condition, with all its hardships 
and misfortunes : and this part also I cannot but 
recommend to the reflection of those who are apt' 
in their misery to say. Is any affliction like mine ? 
Let them consider, how much worse the cases of 
some people are, and what their case might have 
been, if Providence had thought fit» 

I had another reflection, which assisted me also 
.to comfort my mind with hopes; and this was com<r 
paring my present condition with what I had de* 
served, and had therefore reason to expect from 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE* 809 

tiie hand of Providence* Thad lived a dreadfal 
life> perfectly destitute of the knowledge and fear 
of God : I had been well instructed by father and 
mother ; neither had they been wanting to me in 
their early endeavours to infuse a religious awe of 
God into my mind« a sense of my duty, and of 
what the nature and end of my being required of 
me. But, alas ! falling early into the seafaring life, 
which of all the lives is the most destitute of the 
fear of Grod, though his terrors are always before 
th^m; I say, falling early into the seafaring life, 
and into seafaring company, all that little sense of 
religion which I had entertained, was laughed out 
of me by my messmates ; by an hardened despi- 
sing of dangers, and the views of death, which 
grew habitual to me; by my long absence from all 
manner of opportunities to converse with anything 
but what was like myself, or to hear any thing of 
what was good, or tended towards it. 

So void was I of every thing that was good, or of 
the least sense of what I was, or was to be, that in 
the greatest deliverance I enjoyed, such as my 
escape from Sallee, my being taken up by the Por- 
tuguese master of the ship, my being planted so 
well in Brazil, my receiving the cargo from Eng- 
land, and the like, 1 never once had the words. 
Thank God, so much as on my mind, or in my 
mouth ; nor in the greatest distress had I so much 

VOL. u o 



tlO THB LIFB AKD ADVENTURES 

thought as to pray to him ; nor so much as to say. 
Lord have mercy upou me ! no, not to mention 
the name of God, unless it was \o swear by, and 
blaspheme it. 

I had terrible reflections upon my mind for many 
months, as I have already observed, on the account 
of my wicked and hardened life past ; and when I 
looked about me, and considered what particular 
providences had attended me, since my coming 
into this place, and how God had dealt bountifully 
with me; had not only punished me less than my 
iniquity deserved, but had so plentifully provided 
for me; this gave me great hopes that my repen- 
tance was accepted, and that God had yet mercies 
in store for me. 

With these reflections I worked my mind up, not 
only to resignation to the will of God in the present 
disposition of my circumstances, but even to a sin- 
cere thankfulness of my condition ; and that I, who 
was yet a living man, ought not to complain, 
seeing I had not the du^ punishment of my sins ; 
that 1 enjoyed so many mercies, which I had no 
reason to have expected in that place, that I ought 
never more to repine at my condition, but to re- 
joice, and to give daily thanks, for that daily bread, 
which nothing but a cloud of wonders could have 
brought: that 1 ought to consider 1 had been fed 
even by a miracle, even as great as that of feeding 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. 811 

Elijah by ravens ; nay^ by a long series of miracles ; 
and that I could hardly have named a place in the 
uninhabited part of the world, where I could have 
been cast more to my advantage : a place, where 
as I had no society, which was my affliction on one 
hand, so I found no ravenous beasts, no furious 
wolves or tygers to threaten my life; no venomous 
creatures or poisonous, which I might have fed on 
to my hurt; no savages to murder and devour me* 

In a word, as my life was a life of sorrow one 
way, so it was a life of mercy another; and I want- 
ed nothing to make it a life of comfort, hut to be 
able to make my sense of God's goodness to me, 
and care over me in this condition, be my daily 
consolation; and after I made a just improvement 
of these things, I went away, and was no more 
sad. 

I had now been here so long, that many things 
which I brought on shore for my help, were either 
quite gone, or very much wasted, and near spent. 

My ink, as I observed, had been gone for some 
time, all but a very little, which I eked out with 
water a little and a little, till it was so pale it scarce 
left any appearance of black upon the paper : as 
long as it lasted, I made use of it to minute down 
the days of the month on which any remarkable 
thing happened to me; and first, by casting up 
times past, I remember that there was a strange 



sit THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

concarrence of days, in the various provideaces 
which befel me, and which, if I had been super- 
stitiously inclined to observe days as fatal or fortu- 
nate, I might have had reason to have looked upon 
with a great deal of curiosity.* 

First, I had observed, that the same day that I 
broke away irom my father and my friends, and 
ran away to Hull in order to go to sea, the same 
day afterwards I was taken by the Sallee man of 
war, and made a slave « 

The same day of the year that I escaped out of 
the wreck of the ship in Yarmouth Roads, that 
same da}' of the year afterwards I made my escape 
from Sallee in the boat 

The same day of the year I was bom on, riz* the 
20th of September, the same day I had my life so 
miraculously saved twenty-six years niter, when I 
was cast on shore in this island ; so that my wicked 
life, and solitary life, both began on a day. 

The next thing to my ink's being wasted, was 
that of my bread, I mean the biscuit which I 
brought out of the ship. This I had husbanded 
to the last degree, allowing myself but one cake of 
bread a day, for above a year : and yet I was quite 
without bread for a year before I got any corn of 
my own ; and great reason I had to be thankful 
that I had any at all, the getting it being, as has 
been already observed^ next to miraculous. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 813 

My clothes toe began to decay mightily i as to 
liDCQ, I had none a good while, except some cher 
quered shirts which I found in the chests of the 
other seamen, and which I carefully preserved, be» 
cause many times I could bear no other clothes on 
but a shirt; and it was a very great help to me,' 
that I had among all the men's clothes of the ship 
almost three dozen of shirts. There were also 
several thick watch-coats of the seamen/ which 
were left behind, but they were too hot to wear; 
and though it is true, that the weather was so 
violent hot, that there was no need of clothes, yet 
I could not go quite najced : no, though I had been 
inclined to it, which I was not ; nor could I abide 
the thought of it, though I was all alone. 

One reason why I could not go quite naked, was, 
I could not bear the heat of the sun so well when 
quite naked, as with some clothes on ; nay, the very 
heat frequently blistered my skin ; whereas, with a 
shirt on, the ^ir itself made some motion, and, whist- 
ling under the shirt, was twofold cooler than with- 
out it : no more could I ever bring myself to go out 
in the heat of the sun without a cap or a hat ; the 
heat of the sun beating with such violence as 
it does in that place, would give me the headach 
presently, hy darting so directly on my head, with- 
out a cap or hat on, so that I could not bear it; 
whereas, if I put on my hat, it woul4 presently gq 
away. 



»« THE UFE AND ADVENTURES 

Upon these views I began to consider about put- 
^g the few rags I had, which I called clothes, in- 
to some order; I had worn out all the waigtcoats I 
had, and my bosioess was now to Iry if I coald not 
make jackets out of the great watch-coats which I 
had by me, and with such other materiala as I had ; 
M I set to work a-tailoring, or rather indeed a-botch' 
ing; for I made most piteous work of it. However, 
I made shift to make two or three waistcoats, which 
I hoped would serve me a great while; as far 
brcecbes or drawers, I made but very sorry tb'iR. 
indeed till afterwards. 

I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the 

creatures that I killed, I mean four-footed ones; 

and I had hung them up stretched out with sticks 

in the sun ; by which means some of them were 

■o dry and hard, that they were fit for little ; but 

others, it seems, were very usefiil. The first thing 

I made of these was a great cap for my head, with 

the hair on the outside to shoot off the rain : and 

this I performed so well, that aAer this I made a 

suit of clothes wholly of those skins; that is to say, 

chei open at the knees, and 

were rather wanted to keep 

[> me warm. I must not omit 

they were wretchedly made; 

■penter, I was a worse tailor : 

-uch as I made a very goo^ 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ^n 

shift with; and when I was abroad, if it happen- 
ed to rain, the hair of the waistcoat and cap being 
outmost, I was kept very dry. 

After this, I spent a deal of time and pains to 
make me an umbrella : I was indeed in great want 
of one, and had a great mind to make one : I had 
seen them made in the Brazils, where they are very 
useful in the great heats which are there ; and I 
felt the heats every jot as great here, and greater 
too, being nearer the equinox ; besides, as I was 
obliged to be much abroad, it was a most useful 
thing to me, as well for the rains as the heats. I 
took a world of pains at it, and was a great while 
before I could make any thing likely to hold ; nay, 
after I thought I bad hit the way, I spoiled two 
or three before I made one to my mind ; but at 
last I made one that answered indifferently well. 
The main difficulty I found was to make it to let 
down : I could make it to spread ; but if it did not 
let down too, and draw in, it urould not be portable 
for me any way, but just over my head, which 
would not do. However, at last, as I said, I made 
one to answer; I covered it with skins, the hair 
upwards, so that it cast off the rain like a penthouse, 
and kept off the sun so eftectually, that I could walk 
out in the hottest of the weather, with greater ad- 
vantage than I could before in the coolest; and 



816 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

when I had no need of it, I oaidd dose i^ and cany 
it under my ann. 

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind be- 
ing entirely composed by resigning to the will of 
Godj and throwing myself wholly upon the dis- 
posal of his providence : this made my life better 
than sociable ; for, when I began to regret the want 
of conversation, I would ask myself, whether thus 
conversing mutually with my own thoughts, and, 
as I hope I may say, with even my Maker, by eja- 
culations and petitions, was not better than the 
utmost enjoyment of human society in the world ? 

I cannot say, that after this, for five years, any 
extraordinary thing happened to me; but I lived on 
in the same course, in the same posture and place, 
just as before. Xhe chief thing I was employed in, 
besides my yearly labour of planting my barley and 
rice, and curing my raisins, of both which I always 
kept up just enough to have a sufficient stock of the 
year's provisions beforehand ; I say, besides this 
yearly labour, and my daily labour of going out 
with my gun, I had one labour to make me a canoe, 
which at last I finished : so that by digging a canal 
teit, six feet wide, and four feet deep, I brought it 
into the creek, almost half a mile. As for the first, 
that was so vastly big, as I made it without con- 
sidering beforehand, as 1 ought to do, how I should 
t)je able to launch it; so, never being able to bring 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 817 

it to the water^ or bring the water to it, I was obli- 
ged to let it lie where it was^ as a memorandum to 
teach me to be wiser next time. Indeed, the next 
time, though I ioould not get .a tree proper for it, 
and was in a place where I could not get the water 
to it, at any less distance than, as I have said, of 
near half a mile ; yet as J saw it was practicable at 
last, 1 never gave it over; and though I was near 
two years about it, yet I never grudged my labour, 
in hopes of having a boat to go off to sea at last. 



SI8 THE UFE AND ADVENTURES 



CHAP. X. 

I succeed in getting a Canoe afloat, and set out en a 
voyage in the sixth year of my reign, or captivity^ 
Blown out to Sea — Reach the Shore with great diffi" 
cuky — Fall asleep, and am awakened by a voice 
calling n^ name — Devise various schemes to tame 
Croats, and at last succeed, 

XI owEYER, though my little periagaa was finished, 
yet the size of it was not at all answerable to the 
design which I had in view, when I made the first; 
I mean of venturing over to the Terra Firma, where 
it was above forty miles broad; accordingly, the 
smallness of my boat assisted to put an end to that 
design, and now I thought no more of it But as I 
had a boat, my next design was to make a tour 
round the island : for, as I had been on the other 
side, in one place, crossing, as I have already de- 
scribed it, over the land, so the discoveries I made 
in that journey made me very eager to see the other 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. S19 

parts of the coast; and now I had a boat, I thought * 
of nothing but sailuig round the island. 

For this purpose, and that I might do every thing 
with discretion and consideration, I fitted up a little 
mast to my boat, and made a sail to it out of some 
of the pieces of the ship's sails, which lay in store, 
and of which I Imd a great store by me. 

Haying fitted my mast and sail, and tried the 
boat, I found she would sail very well. Then I made 
little lockers and boxes at each end of my boat, to 
put provision s» necessaries, and ammunition, &c. 
into, to be kept dry, either from rain, or the spray' 
of the sea ; and a little long hollow place I cut in 
the inside of the boat, where I could lay my gun, 
making a flap to hang down over it to keep it dry. 

I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stem, like 
a mast, to stand over my head, and keep the heat 
of the sun off me, like an awning ; and thus I every 
now and then took a little voyage upon the sea, but 
never went far out, nor far from the little creek ; 
but at last, being eager to view the circumference 
of my little kingdom^ I resolved upon my tour, and 
accordingly I victualled my ship for the voyage; 
putting in two dozen of my loaves (cakes I should 
rather call them) of barley-bread ; an earthen pot 
full of parched rice, a food I ate a great deal of, a . 
little bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder with 
Ahot for killing more, and two large watch-coats, of 



9S0 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

those which, as I mentioaed before, I had saved out 
of the seamen's chests; these I took, one to lie upon, 
and the other to cover ine in the night 

It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of 
my reign, or my captivity, which you please, that I 
set out on this voyage, and 1 found it much longer 
than I expected ; for though the island itself was 
not very large, yet when I came to the east side of 
it, I found a great ledge of rocks lie out about two' 
leagues into the sea, some above water, some under 
it; and beyond this a shoal of sand, lying dry half 
a league more ; so that I was obliged to go a great 
way out to sea to double that point. 

When I first discovered them, I waft going to 
give over my enterprize, and come bapk again, not 
knowing how far it might oblige me to go out to 
sea, and, above all, doubting how I should get back 
again ; so I came to an anphor, for I had made me 
a kind of an anchor with a piece of broken grap- 
pling which I got out of the ship. 

Having secured my boat, I took my gtin, and 
went on shore, climbing up an hill, which seemed 
to overlook that point, where I saw the full extent 
of it, and resolved to venture. 

In my viewing the sea from that hill where I 
stood, I perceived a strong, and indeed a most fu- 
rious current, which ran to the east, even came close 
to the point; and I took the more notice of it, be« 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 281 

cause I saw ther^ might be some dadger^ that when 
I came iato it, I might be carried oat to sea by the 
strength of it, and not be able to make the island 
again. And indeed, had I not gotten first upon 
this hill, I believe it would have been so; for there 
was the same current on the other side of the island, 
only that it set off at a farther distance ; and I 
saw there was a strong eddy under the shore j so I 
had nothing to do but to get out of the first current, 
and I should presently be in an dddy. 

I lay here, however, two days ; because the wind 
blowing pretty fresh (at £. S. E. and that being just 
contrary to the s^id current), made a great breach of 
the sea upon the point; so that it was not safe for 
me to keep too close to the shore for the breach, 
nor to go too far off because of the stream. 

The third day in the mornings the wind having 
abated over-nighti the sea was calm, and I ventur- 
ed : but I am a warning-piece again to all rash and 
Ignorant pilots; for no sooner was I come to the 
point, when I was not my boat's length from the 
shore, but I found myself in a great depth of water, 
and a current like a sluice of a mill. It carried my 
boat along with it with such violence, that all I 
could do could not keep her so much as on the edge 
of it : but I found it hurried me farther and farther 
oidt from the eddy, which was on the left hand. 
There was np wind stirring to help me/ and all that 



99f TH£ LIFK AKD ADVENTURES 

I couki do with my paddles signified nothing ; and 
now I hegau to give myself over for lost; for, as 
the carrent was on both sides the island, 1 knew in 
a few leagues distance they must join again, and then 
I was irrecoverably gone : nor did I see any possibi- 
lity of avoiding it; so that I had no prospect before 
me but of perishing ; not by the sea, for that was calm 
enough, but of starving for hunger. I had indeed 
found a tortoise on the shore, as big almost as I 
could lift, and had tossed it into the boat; and I had 
a great jar of fresh water, that is to say, one of my 
earthen pots; but what was all this to being driven 
into the vast ocean, where, to be sure, there was no 
shore, no main land or island, for a thousand leagues 
at least ? 

And now I saw how easy it was for the provi* 
denceof Godto make the most miserable condition 
tha^ mankind could be in, worse. Now I looked 
back upon my desolate solitary island, as the most 
pleasant place in the world, and all the happiness 
my heart could wish for, was to be there again: I 
stretched out my hands to it with eager wishes ; 
** O happy desert V said I, ** I shall never see thee 
inore ! O miserable creature !'* said I, «' whither am 
I going 1'^ Then I neproached myself with my un- 
thankful temper, and how I had repined at my soli- 
tary condition ; and now what would I give to be 
on shore there again? Thus we never see the tru(^ 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 828 

ftate of oar condition, till it is illustrated tons by its 
contraries ; nor know how to value what we enjoy, 
but by the want of it It is scarce possible to ima- 
gine the consternation I was now in, being driven 
from my beloved island (for so it appeared to me 
now to be) into the wide ocean, almost two leagues, 
and in the utmost despair of ever recovering it 
again: however, I worked hard, till indeed my 
strength was almost exhausted ; and kept my boat 
as much to the northward, that is, towards the side 
of the current which the eddy lay on, as possibly 
I could; when about noon, as the sun passed the 
meridian, I thought I felt a little breeze of wind in 
my face^ springing up from the S. S. K This cheer- 
ed my heart a little, and especially, when in about 
half an hour more, it blew a pretty small gentle 
gide. By this time I was gotten at a frightful dis- 
tance from the island ; and, had the least cloud or 
hazy weather intervened, I had been undone ano- 
ther way too ; for I had no compass on board, and 
should never have known how to have steered to* 
wards the island, if I had but once lost sight of it ; 
but the weather continuing clear, I applied myself 
to get up my mast again, and spread my sail, stand- 
ing away to the north as much as possible, to get 
out of the current. 

Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat 
began to stretch away, I saw even by the clearness 



tt4 THE LIFE AND AD VENTURES 

of the water, some alteration of the carreiit vra9 
near; for where the current was so strong, the wa- 
ter was foul : but perceiving the water clear, I found 
the current abate, and presently I found to the east, 
at about half a mile, a breach of the sea upon some 
rocks: these rocks I found caused the current to 
part again ; and as the main stress of it ran away 
more southerly, leaving the rocks to the north-east« 
so the other returned by the repulse of the rock^ 
and made a strong eddy, which ran back again to 
the north-west with a very sharp stream. 

They who know what it is to have a reprieve 
brought to them upon the ladder, or to be rescued 
from thieves just going to murder them, or who 
have been in such-like extremities, may guess what 
my present surprise of joy was, and how gladly I 
put my boat into the stream of this eddy ; and the 
wind also freshening, how gladly I spread my sail 
to it, running chearfully before the wind, and with 
a strong tide or eddy under foot. 

This eddy carried me about a league in my way 
back again directly towards the island, but about 
two leagues more towards the northward than the 
current lay, which carried me away at first; so that 
when I came near the island, I found myself open, 
to the northern shore of it, that is to say, the other 
end of the island, opposite to that which I went out 
from. 



dF ROBiXSON CRUSOE. S35 

When I had made si)mething more than a league 
#f way by the help of this current or eddy, I found 
it was spent, and served me no ferther. However, 
I found, that being between the two great currents, 
yiz. that on the south side which had hurried me 
away, and that on the north which lay about two 
leagues on the other side; I say, between these 
two, in the west of the island, I found the water at 
least still, and running no way; and having stiil a 
breeze of wind fair for me, I kept on steering di- 
rectly for the island, though not making such fresh 
way as I did before. 

About four o'clock in the evening, being then 
within about a league of the island, I found the 
point of the rocks which occasioned this distance 
stretching out as is described before, to the south- 
ward, and casting off the current more southwardly, 
had of course made another eddy to the north ; and 
this I found very strong, but directly setting the 
way ray course lay, which was due west, but al« 
most full north. However, having a fresh gale, I 
stretched across this eddy slanting north-west, and 
in about an hour came within about a mile of the 
shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon got to 
land. 

When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and 
gave God thanks for my deliverance, resolving to 
lay aside all thoughts of my deliverance by my boat; 

VOL. I. r 



C26 TH£ LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

and refreshing myself with such things as I had^ I 
brought my boat close to the shore, in a little cove 
that I had espied under some trees, and laid me 
down to sleep, being quite spent with the labour 
and fatigue of the voyage. 

I was now at a great loss which way to get home 
with my boat; I had run so much hazard, and 
knew too much the cause, to think of attempting it 
by the way I went out; and what might be at the 
other side (I mean the west side,) I knew not, nor 
had I any mind to run any more ventures; sol 
only resolved in the morning to make my way west- 
ward along the shore, arid to see if there was no 
creek where I might lay up my frigate in safety, 
so as to have her again if I wanted her. In about 
three miles, or thereabouts, coasting the shore, I 
came to a very good inlet, or bay, about a mile 
over, which narrowed till it came to a very little 
rivulet, or brook, where I found ci convenient har- 
bour for my boat, and where she lay as if she bad 
been in a little dock made on purpose for hei . here 
I put in, and having stowed my boat very safe, I 
went on shoie to look about me, and see where I 
was. 

I soon found I had but a little passed by the 
place where I had been before when I travelled oa 
foot to that shore ; so, taking nothing out of my boat 

but my gun and my umbrella^ for it was exceeding 

5 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. S2t 

hot, I began my march: the way was comfortable 
enoagh after such a Toyage as I had been upon, 
and I reached my old bower in the erenmg, where 
I found eYery thing standing as I left it ; for I al- 
ways kept it in good order, being, as I said before, 
my country-house. 

' I got oyer the fence, and laid me down in the 
shade to rest my limbs, for I was very weary, and 
fell asleep; but judge if you can, you that read my 
story, what a surprise I must be in, when I was 
awaked out of my sleep by a Toice calling me by 
iHy name several times, ** Robin, Robin, Robin 
Crusoe, poor Robin Crusoe ! Where are you, Ro- 
bin Crusoe? Where are you? Where have you 
been ?*' 

I was so dead asleep at first, being &tigued with 
rowing, or paddling, as it is called, the first part of 
the day, and walking the latter part, that I did not 
awake thoroughly; and dozing between sleeping 
and waking, thought I dreamed that somebody 
spoke to me; but as the voice continued to repeat 
Robin Crusoe, Robin Crusoe, at last I began to 
awake more perfectly, and was at first dreadfully 
frighted, and started up in the utmost consterna- 
tion: but no sooner were my eyes open, but I saw 
my FdI sitting on the top of the hedge, and imm" 
diately knew that this was he that spoke to n 
for just in such bemoaning language I had used 



S2S THE £lF£ AND ADVENTURES 

talk to hinij and teach him ; and he had learnt it 
so perfectly, that he would sit upon my finger» and 
lay his bill close to my face, and cry, " PoorEobin^ 
Crusoe, where are you ? Where have you been } 
How came you here }" and such things as I had 
taught him. 

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, 
and that indeed it could be nobody else, it was a 
good while before I could compose myself. First, 
I was amazed how the creature got thither, and 
then how he should just keep about the place, and 
no where else : but as I was well satisfied it could 
be nobody but honest Pol, I got it over ; and hold- 
ing out my hand, and calling him by his name, 
Pol, the sociable creature, came to me, and sat upon 
my thumb, as he used to do, and continued talking 
to me. Poor Robin Crusoe, and, how did I come 
here ? and, where had I been ? just as if he had 
been overjoyed to see me again; and so I carried 
him home along with me. 

I had now had enough of rambling to sea for 
some time, and had enough to do for many days to 
sit stilband reflect upon the danger I had been in. 
I would have been very glad to have had my boat 
again on my side of the island, but I knew not how 
it was practicable to get it about : as to the east 
side of the island, which I had gone round, I knew 
well enough there was no venturing that way; my 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. SM 

■nty heart would shrink, and my Tery blood run 
chill, but to think of it : and to the other side of 
the islanrl, I did not know how it might be there; 
but supposing the current ran with the same force 
against the shore at the east, as it passed by it on 
the other, I might run the same risk of being driven 
down the stream, and carried by the island, as I 
had been before of being carried away from it. So 
with these thoughts I contented myself to be with* 
oat any boat, though it had been the product of so 
many months labour to make it, and of so many 
more to get it into the sea. 

In this government of my temper I remained 
near a year, lived a very sedate retired life, as you 
may well suppose; and my thoughts being very 
much composed, as to my condition, and fully com- 
forted in resigning myself to the dispositions of 
Providence, I thought I lived really very happily 
in all things, except that of society. 

I improved myself in this time, in all the mecha- 
nic exercises which my necessities put me upon 
applying myself to ; and I believe could, upon oc- 
caMon, have made a very good carpenter, especial- 
ly considering how few tools I had. 

Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfec- 
tion in my earthenware, and contrived well 
to make them with a wheel, which I found 
ly easier and better; because I made thmg 



StSO THE LIFE AND ADVEMTUHES 

and 8hap«able« which before were filthy things in** 
deed to look on. Bat I think I never was more 
yain of my own performance, or more joyM for 
any thing I found oiit» than for my being able to 
make a tobacco-pipe ; and though it was a very 
ugly clumsy thing when it was done, and only burnt 
red like other earthen ware^ yet as it was hard and 
firm, and woukl draw the smoke, I was exceedingly 
comforted with it; for I had been always used to 
smoke, and there were pipes in the ship, but I for^ 
got them at first, not knowing there was tobacco 
in the island; and afterwards^ when I searched the 
ship again, I could not come at any pipes at all. 

In my wicker-ware I also improved much, and 
made abundance of neoesaary baskets^ as well as 
my invention shewed me, though not very hand- 
some, yet convenient for my laying things up in, 
or fetching things home in. For example, if I kill- 
ed a goat abroad, I could hang it up in a tree, flay 
it, and dress it, and cut it in pieces;, and bring it 
home in a basket: and the like by a turtle; I 
could cut it up, take out the eggs, and a piece or 
two of the flesh, which was enough for me, aod 
bring them home in a baskets and leave the rest 
behind me. Also large deep baskets were my re- 
ceivers for my com, which I always rubbed out as 
soon as it was dry, and cured ; and kept it in great 
baskets instead of a granary. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. S81 

I begftD now to perceive my powder abated con- 
iiderably ; and this was a want which it was im- 
possible for me to supply, and I began seriously to 
consider what I must do when I should have no 
more powder ; that is to say, how I should do to 
kill any goats. I had, as I observed, in the third 
year of my being here, kept a young kid, and bred 
her tame ; I was in hopes of getting an he-kid, 
but I could not by any means bring it to pass, till 
my kid grew an old goat ; and I could never find 
in my heart to kill her, till she died at last of mere 

age- 
Bat being now in the eleventh year of my resi- 
dence, and, as I have said, my ammunition growing 
low, I set myself to study some art to trap and snare 
the goatSy to see whether I could not catch some of 
them alive ; and particularly I wanted a she-goat 
great with young. 

To this purpose I made snares to hamper them, 
and believe they were more than once taken in 
them; but my tackle was not good, for I had no 
wire, and always found them broken, and my bait 
devoured. 

At length I resolved to try a pitfall ; so I dug 
several large pits in the earth, in places where I 
had observed the goats used to feed, and over these 
pits I placed hurdles of my own making too, with a 
great weight upon them; and several ^imes I put 



tn THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

ears of barley, and dry rice, without setting the 
trap; and I could easily perceiye, that the goats 
had gone in, and eaten up the com, that I could see 
the mark of their feet : at length, I set three trapi 
in one night, and going the next morning, I found 
them all standing, and yet the bait eaten and gone. 
This was very discouraging ; Jiowever, I altered my 
trap ; and, not to trouble you with particulars, go- 
ing one morning to see my traps, I found in one of 
them a large old he-goat ; and, in one of the otner, 
three kids, a male and two females. 

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with 
him ; he was so fierce, I durst not go into the pit to 
him ; that is to say, to go about to bring him away 
alive, which was what I wanted. I could have kill- 
ed him, but that was not my business, nor wonid 
it answer my end ; so I e^en let him out, and he ran 
away as if he had been frightened out of his wits; 
but 1 did not tbeA know what I afterwards learnt, 
that hunger would tame a lion : if I had let him stay 
there three or four days without food, and then have 
carried him some water to drink, and then a little 
corn, he would have been as tame as one of the 
kids ; for they are mighty sagacious tractable crea- 
tures, where they are well used. 

However, for the present 1 let him go, 'knowing 
no better at that time : then I went to the three 
kids; and, Uking them one by one, I tied them with 



eF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 98S 

itrings together ; and with some difficalty brought 
them all home. 

It was a good while before they would feed ; but 
throwing ihem some sweet corn, it tempted them, 
and they began to be tame : and now I found, that 
if I expected to supply myself with goat's flesh, 
when I had no powder or shot left, breeding some 
«p tame was my only way, when perhaps I might 
have them about my house like a flock of sheep. 

But then it presently occurred to me, that I 
must keep the tame from the wild, or else they 
would always run wild when they grew up ; and 
the only way for this was to have some en^osed 
piece of ground, well fenced either with hedge or 
pale, to keep them up so eflectually, that those 
within might not break out, or those without break 
in. 

This was a great undertaking for one pair of 
hands ; yet as 1 saw there was an absolute neces* 
sity of doing it, my first piece of work was to find 
out a proper piece of gpround ; viz. where there was 
likely to be herbage for them to eat, water for 
them to drink, and cover to keep them from the 
sun. 

' Those who understand such enclosures, will think 
I had very little contrivance, when I pitched upon 
a place very proper for all these, being a plain 
open piece of meadow-land or savannah (as our poo* 



83^1 THE LIFE AND ADYEKTURES 

pie call it ia the western coloaies), which had two 
or three little drills of fresh water in ity and at ooq 
end was very woody; I say they will smile at my 
forecast^ when I shall tell them I began my enclo- 
sing of this piece of ground in such a manner^ that 
my hedge or pale must have been at least two miles 
about : nor was the madness of it so great as to the 
compass; for if it was ten miles about^ I was like 
to have time enough to do it in ; but I did not con?* 
mder, that my goats would be as wild in so much 
compass^ as if they had had the whole island ; and 
I should have so much room to chase- them in, that 
I should never catch them. 

My hedge was begun and carried on, I belieTe« 
about fifty yards, when this thought occurred to 
me ; so I presently stopped ^ort, and for the first 
beginning I resolved to enclose a piece of about 
one hundred and fifty yards in length, and one 
hundred yards in breadth, which, as it would main*- 
tain as many as I should have in any reasonable 
time, so, as my flock increased, I could add more 
ground to ray enclosure. 

This was acting with some prudence, and I went 
to work with courage. I was about three months 
hedging in the first piece ; and, till I had done it, I 
tethered the three kids in the best part of it, and 
used them to feed as near me as possible, to make 
them familiar ; and ?ery often I would go and carry 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. tSb 

them flome ears of barley^ or a handful of rice, and 
feed them out of my hand ; so that after my enclo* 
sure was finished, and I let them loose, they would 
follow me up and down, bleating after me for a 
handful of com. 

This answered my end, and in about a year and 
a half I had a flock of about twelve goats, Icids and 
all ; and, in two years more, I had three-and-forty, 
besides several that I took and killed for my food; 
and afier that I enclosed five several pieces of 
ground to feed them in, with little pens to drive 
them into, to take them as I wanted them; and 
gates oat of one piece of ground into another. 

But this was not all; for now I not only had 
goat's flesh to feed on when I pleased, but milk too, 
a thing which indeed in my beginning I did not so 
much as think of, and which, when it came into my 
thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise; for 
now I set up my dairy, and had sometimes a gallon 
or two of milk in a day. And as nature, who gives 
supplies of food to every creature, dictates even 
naturally how to make use of it; so I, that never 
milked a cow, much less a goat, or saw butter or 
cheese made, very readily and handily, though af- 
ter a great many essays and miscarriages, made me 
both butter and cheese at last, and never wanted it 
afterwards. 

How mercifully can our great Creator treat his 



Wi THE LIFB AND ADVENTURES 

creatures, even in those conditions in which they 
seemed to be overwhelmed in destruction! How 
can he sweeten the bitterest proyidences, and give 
US cause to praise him for dungeons and prisons ! 
What a table was here spread for me in a wilder- 
ness, where I saw nothing at first but to perish for 
hunger ! 

It would have made a stoic smile, to bare seen 
me and my little family sit down to dinner : there 
was my majesty, the prince and lord of the whole 
island ; I had the lives of all my subjects at abso- 
lute command ; I could hang, draw, give life and 
liberty, and take it away, and no rebels among all 
my subjects. 

Then to see how like a king I dined too, all 
alone, attended by my servants ! Pol, as if he had 
been my favourite, as the only person permitted to 
talk to me ; my dog, which was now grown very old 
and crazy, and found no species to multiply his 
kind upon, sat always at my right hand ; and two 
cats, one on one side the table, and one on the 
other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand, 
as a mark of special favour. 

But these were not the two cats which I brought 
on shore at first; for they were both of them dead, 
and had been interred near my habitation by my 
own hands ; but one of them having multiplied by 
I know not what kind of creature, these were two 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. t3lf 

which I preserved tame, whereas the rest ran wild 
into the woods, and became indeed troublesome to 
me at last ; for they would often come into my 
house, and plunder me too, till at last I was obli- 
ged to shoot them, and did kill a great many : at 
length they left me. With this attendance, and in 
this plentiful manner, I lived \ neither could I be 
•aid to want any thing but society, and of that, in 
some time aftec this, I was like to have too much. 



tM THE LIFE AND ADVfiMTtJRESl 



€HAP. XI. 

Dc$crg>tkm (^tmf Figure-^AUo of ni§ Dwd^ig and 
InclosureS'^JDrea4fid alarm on seeing the Print of 
a MaiCs Fooi on the Shore — Refieciiona-^Take 
every pomhk nteasure qf precaution* 

1 WAS something impatient, as I had observed^ to 
have the use of my boat, though very loath to ran 
any more hazard; and therefore sometimes I sat 
contriving ways to get her about the island, and at 
other times I sat myself down contented enough 
without her. But I had a strange uneasiness in my 
mind to go down to the point of the island, where, 
as I have said in my last ramble, I went up the hill 
to see how the shore lay, and how the current set, 
that I might see what 1 had to do. This inclination 
increased upon me every day^ and at length I re- 
solved to travel thither by land, and following the 
edge of the shore, I did so : but had any one in Eng- 
land been to meet such a man as I was, it must 
either have frighted them, or raised a great deal of 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 9S0 

laughter ; and as I frequently stood still to look at 
myself, I could nt»t but smile at the notion of my 
travelling through Yorkshire with such an equipage, 
and in such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch 
of my figure as follows : 

I had a great high shapeless cap» made of goat's 
skin, with a flap hanging down behind, as well to 
keep the sun from me, as to shoot the rain off from 
running into my neck ; nothing being so hurtful in 
these climates, as the rain upon the flesh under the 
clothes. 

I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts 
coming down to about the middle of my thighs ; 
and a pair of open-kneed breeches of the same: the 
breeches were made of a skin of an old he-goat, 
whose hair hung down such a length on either side, 
that, like pantaloons, it reached to the middle of 
my legs. Stockings and shoes I had none ; but I 
had made me a pair of something, I scarce knew 
what to call them, like buskins, to flap over my 
legs, and lace on either side like spatterdashes; but 
of a most barbarous shape, as indeed were all the 
rest of my clothes. 

I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which 
I drew together with two thongs of the same, in- 
stead of buckles; and in a kind of a frog on either 
side of this, instead of a sword and dagger, hung a 
little saw and a hatchet; one on one side, one on the 



Uf THB LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

Other : I had another helt not so broad, and fastemr 
ed in the same manner, which hang over my shoul- 
der ; tad at the end of it, under my left arm, hung 
two pouches, both made of goat's skin too ; in one 
of which hung my powder, in the other my shot : 
at my back I carried my basket, on my shoulder 
my gun, and over my head a great clumsy ugly 
goat's skin umbrella ; but which, after all, was the 
most necessary thing I had about me, next to my 
gun. As for my face, the colour of it was really 
not so Mulatto-like as one might expect from a 
man not at all careful of it, and living within nine 
or ten degrees of the equinox. My beard I had 
once sufiered to grow till it was about a quarter of 
a yard long ; but as I had both sciaszars and razors 
sufficient, I had cut it pretty short, except what 
grew on my upper lip, which I had trimmed into a 
large pair of Alahometan whiskers, such as I had 
seen worn by some Turks whom I saw at Sallee; 
for the Moors did not wear such, though the Turks 
did : of these mustachios, or whiskers, I will not say 
they were long enough to hang my hat upon them ; 
but they were of length and shape monstrous 
enough, and such as in England would have passed 
for frightful. 

But all this is by the by; for as to my figure, I 
had so few to observe me, that it was of no manner 

of consequence; so I say no more to that part. In 

10 



( 



6F ROBINSON CRUSOE. S4I 

this kiad of figure I went my new journey, and was 
out five or six days. I travelled first along the sea- 
shore, directly to the place where I first brought my 
boat to an anchor, to get up upon the rocks J and, 
having no boat now to take care of, I went over the 
land a nearer way, to the same height that I was 
upon before ; when looking forward to the point of 
the rock which lay out, and which I was to double 
with my boat, as I said above, I was surprised to 
see the sea all smooth and quiet; no rippling, no 
motion, no current^ any more there than in other 
places. 

, I was at a strange loss to undierstand this, and re- 
solved to spend some time in the observing of it, to 
see if nothing from the sets of the tide had occa- 
sioned it : but I was presently convinced how it 
was ; viz. that the tide of ebb setting from, the west, 
and joining with the current of waters from some 
great river on the shore, must be the occasion of 
this current, and that according as the wind blew 
more forcible from the west, or from the north, this 
current came near, or went farther from the shore; 
for, waiting thereabouts till evening, I went up to 
the rock again, and then, the tide of ebb being made, 
I plainly saw the current again as before, only that 
it ran farther off, being near half a league from the 
shore ; whereas, an my case, it set close upon the 

VOL. I. Q, 



»«r THE LIPB AND ADVENTiniES 

shore, and luin'ied me ia my canoe along with it^ 
which at another time it would not have done. 

This ohservation convinced me, that I had uoi- 
tfaiog to do but to .observe the ebbing and the flow- 
ing of the tide, and 1 might very easily bring my 
boat about the island again : but when I began to 
think of putting it in practice, I had such a terror 
upon my spirits at the remembrance of the danger 
I had been ia, that I could not think of it again 
with any patience ; but on the contrary, I took up 
another resolution, which was more safe, though 
more laborious; and this^ was, that I would build, 
or rather make me another periagua, or canoe; and 
so have one for one side of the island, and one for 
the other. 

You are to understands that now I had, as I may 
eall ity two plantations in the island; one, my little 
fortification or tent;, with the wall about it under 
the rock, with the cave behind me, which by this 
time I had enlarged into several apartments or 
caves, one within another. One of these, which was 
the driest a^d largest,^ and had a door out beyond 
my wall or fortification, that is to say, beyond 
where my wall joined to the rock, was all filled up 
with large earthen pots, of which I have given an 
account, and with fourteen oc fifteen great baskets, 
which would hold five or six bushels each* where I 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 248 

Jaidup my stores of proyisioq> especially my corn, 
gome in the ear cut ofT shcMt from the straw, and 
the other rubbed out with my hands. 

As for my wall, made as before, with long stakes 
or piles, those piles grew all like tr^ees, and were by 
this time grown so big, apd spread so very much, 
that there was not the le^t appeaiance, to any 
one's view, of any habitation behind them. 

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther 
.within the land, and upon lower ground^ lay my two 
pieces of corn-ground; which I kept duly .cultiva- 
Jted and sowed^ and which duly yielded me their 
harvest in its season : and whenever I had occasion 
for 9iore corp, I had more land adjoining, as fit ^ 
that. 

Besides this, I had my country-seat, and I had 
now a tolerable plantation there also; for first, I 
had my little bower, as I called it, which I kept in 
repair; thatjs to say, I kept the hedge which cir- 
qled it in, constantly fitted up to its usual height, 
.the ladder standing always in the inside; I kept 
the trees, which at first were no more than stakes, 
but were now grown very finn and tall,— ^I kept 
them always so cut, that^they mig&t spread and 
grow thick and wild, and make the more agree- 
able shade, \vhich they did efiectually to my mind. 
In the middle of this I had my tent always stand- 
ing, being a piece of a sail spread over poles set up 



9U THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

for that purpose, and which never wanted any re^ 
pair or renewing; and under this I had made me a 
squah or couch, with the skins of the creatures I 
had killed, and with other aoh things, and a blanket 
laid on them, such as belonged to our sea-beddings 
which I had saved, and a great watchcoat to cover 
me ; and here, whenever I had occasion to be ab^ 
sent from mj chief seat, I took up my country ha- 
bftatioiT. 

Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my 
cattle, that is to say, my goats : and as I had takea 
an inconceivable deal of pains to fence and enclose 
this ground, I was so uneasy to see it kept entire, 
lest the goats should break through, that I never 
left oiY, till with infinite labour I had stuck the out- 
side of the hedge so full of small stakes, and so near 
to otie another, that it was rather a pale than a 
hedge, and there was scarce room to put a hand 
through between them, which afterwards, when 
those stakes gr^w, as they all did in the next rainy 
season, made the enclosure strong, like a wall; in- 
deed stronger than any wall. 

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and 
that I spared no pains to bring to pass whatever 
appeared necessary for my comfortable support; 
for I considered the keeping up a breed of tame 
creatures thus at my hand, would be a living maga- 
zine of fleshy milky butter^ and cheese, for me, a» 



t)F ROBINSON CRUSOE. 845 

long as I lived in Ihe place« if it were to be forty 
years ; and that keeping them in my reach, de- 
pended entirely upon my perfecting my enclosures 
to such a degree, that I might be sure of keeping 
them together; which by this method indeed I so 
effectually secured, that when these little stakes 
began to grow, I had planted them so very thick, 
I was forced to pull some of them up again. 

In this place also I had my grapes growing, 
which I principally depended on for my winter store 
of raisins, and which I never failed to preserve very 
carefully, as the best and most agreeable dainty of 
I my whole diet; and indeed they were not agree- 
able only, but physical, wholesome, nourishing, and 
refreshing to the last degree. 

As this w,as also about half-way between my 
other habitation and the place where I had laid up 
my boat, I generally staid and lay here in my way 
thither ; for I used frequently to visit my boat, and 
I kept all things about or belonging to her in very 
good order : sometimes I went out in. her to divert 
myself, but no more hazardous voyages would I go, 
nor scarce ever above a stone's cast or two from the 
shore, I was so apprehensive of being hurried out 
of my knowledge again by the currents, or winds, 
or any other accident But now I come to a new 
«cene of my life. 

It happened one day about noon, going towards 



S46 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

my boat, I was exceedingly surprised with the print 
of a man's naked foot on the shore, which was 
yery plain to be seen in the sand : I stood like one 
thunderstruck, or as if I had seen an apparition ; I 
listened, I looked round me, } could hear nothing, 
nor see any thing; I went up to a rising ground 
to look farther; I went up the shore and dowa 
the shore, but it was all one, I. could see no other 
impression but that one ; I went to it again to see 
if there were any more, and to observe if it might 
not be my foney ;. but there was no room £br that, 
for there was exactly the very print of a foot, toes^, 
heel, and every part of a foot ; how it came thither 
1 knew not, nor could in the lea^ imagine. But 
after innumerable fluttering thoughts^ like a raaa 
perfectly confused, and out of myself, I came home 
to my fortification, not feeling, as we say, the 
ground I went on, but terrified to the Ihst degree^ 
looking behind me at every two or three steps^ 
mistaking every bush arid tree, and fancying every 
stump at a di^ttnce to be a man ; nor is it possible 
to describe how many various shapes an affi%hted 
imagination represented things to me in; how many 
v^ild ideas were formed every moment in my fancy, 
and what strange unaccountable whimsies came in* 
to my thoughts by the way. 

When I came to my castle, for so I think I called 
14 ever after this, I fled into it like one pursued; 



Om day it happened, tkat goii^ to ay boat, I iBir 
(he print of B mao'i naked foot on the abore, T«y evi- 
dent on the Mod, a« tli* tOM, bee], and etCFypBrt of it. 
Vol, 1. Pace SU. 



'VII YORK . 

, LURAK'i 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1S47 

whether I went oyer by the ladder;, as first contri* 
yed, or went in at the hole in the rock, which I 
called a door;, I cannot remember ; for never fright-* 
ed hare fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more 
terror of mind than I to this retreat. 

I had no sleep that night: the farther I v^ 
from the occasion of my fright, the greater my ap- 
prehensions were ; which is something contrary to 
the nature of sach things, and especially to the 
usual practice of all creatures in fear. But I was 
«o embarrassed with my own frightful ideas of the 
thing, that I formed nothing but dismal imagina- 
tions to myself, even though I was now a great way 
off it Sometimes I fancied it must be the devil ; 
and reason joineil in with me upon this supposition. 
For how> should any other thing in human shape 
come into the place? Where was 'the vessel that 
brought them? What marks were there of any 
other footsteps ? And how was it possible a man 
should oome there ? But then to think that Satan 
should take human shape up<m him in such a place, 
where there could be no -manner of occasion for it, 
but to leave the print of his foot behind hijn, and 
that even for no purpose too, (for he could not be 
sure I should see it,) this was an amazement the 
other way : I considered that the devil might ha^ 
found out abundance of other ways to hare terrif 
me, than this of the single print of a foot ; tba^ 



248 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

I lived quite on the other side of the island, he woald 
never have been so simple to leave a mark in a place 
where it was ten thousand to one whether I should 
ever see it or not, and in the sand too, which the 
first surge of the sea upon an high wind would have 
defaced entirely. All this seemed inconsistent with 
the thing itself, and with all notions we usually en» 
tertain of the subtlety of the devil. 

Abundance of such things as these assisted to 
argue me out of all apprehensions of its being the 
devil. And I presently concluded that it must be 
some more dangerous creature ; viz. that it must be 
some of the savages of the main land over against 
me, who had wandered out to sea in their canoes, 
and, either driven by the currents, or by contrary 
winds, had made the island, and had been on shore, 
but were gone away again to sea, being as loath, 
perhaps, to have staid in this desolate island, as I 
would have been to have had thern. 

While th^se reflections were rolling upon my 
mind, I was very thankful in my thought, that I 
vras so happy as not to be thereabouts at that time, 
or that they did not see my boat, by which they^ 
would have concluded, that some inhabitants had 
been in the place, and perhaps hav« searched far^ 
ther for me. Then terrible thoughts racked my 
imagination, about their having found my boat, and 
that there were people here ; and that if so;, { 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 949 

should certainly have them come agaio in greater 
numbers^ and devour me; that if it should happen 
so that they should not find nie^ yet they would find 
my enclosure^ destroy all my corn, carry away all 
my flock of tame goats, and I should perish at last 
for mere want 

Thus my fear banished all my religious hope; all 
that former confidence in God, which was founded 
upon such wonderful experience as I had had of his 
goodness, now vanished ; as if He, that had fed me 
by miracle hitherto, could not preserve by his power 
the provision which he had made for me by his 
goodness. I reproached .myself with my uneasi- 
ness, that I would not sow any more corn one year, 
than would just serve me till the next season, as if 
no accident could intervene to prevent my enjoy- 
ing the crop that was upon the ground. And this 
I thought so just a reproof, that I resolved for the 
future to have two or three years corn beforehand, 
so that, whatever might come, I might not perish 
for want of bread. 

How strange a chequer-work of Providence is the 
life of man ! And b}^ what secret difibring springs 
are the affections hurried about, as differing cir- 
cumstances present ! To-day we love, what to- 
morrov^ we hate ; to»day we seek, what to-morrow 
we shun; to-day we desire, what to-morrow we 
£ear; nay, even tremble at the apprehensions of. 
This was exemplified in me at this time in the 



250 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

flMMft lirely manner imagiaable; for I, whose only 
affliction was, that I seemed banished from human 
society, that I was alone, circumscribed by the 
boundless ocean^ cut off from mankind, and con- 
demned to what I call a silent life ; that I was as 
one whom Heaven thought not worthy to be num- 
bered among the IiTing, or to appear among the 
rest of his creatures; that to have seen one of my 
own species, would have seemed to me a raising 
me from death to life, and the greatest blessing 
that Heaven itself, next to the supreme blessing of 
salvation, could bestow; I say, that I should now 
tremble at the very apprehensions of seeing a man, 
and was ready to sink into the ground, at but the 
shadow, or silent appearance, of a manV having 
set his foot on the island. 

Such is the uneven state of human life; and it 
afforded me a great many curious speculations after- 
wardSy when I had a little recovered my first sur- 
prise : I considered that this was the station of life 
the infinitely wise and good providence of God had 
determined for me; that, as I could not foresee 
what the ends of divine wisdom might be in all this, 
so I was not to dispute his sovereignty, who, as I 
was his creature, had an undoubted right by crea^ 
tion to govern and dispose of me absolutely as he 
thought fit; and who, as I was a creature who 
had ofiended him, had likewise a judicial right to 



OF ROBINSOK CRUSOE. 851 

condemn me to what punishment he thought fit; 
and that it was my part to submit to bear his in* 
dignation, because I had sinned against him. 

I then reflected, that God, who was not only 
righteous, but omnipotent, as he had thought fit 
thus to punish and afflict me, so he was able to 
deliver me ; that if he did not think fit to do it* 
k was- my unquestioned duty to resign myself 
absolutely and entirefy to his will; and on the 
6ther haDd> it ^as my duty also to hope in him, 
pray to bin, and quietly to attend the dictates and 
directions of his daily providence. 

These dioughts took me up many hours, days, 
nay, I may say, weeks and months ; and one par- 
ticular effect of my cogitations on this occasion I 
cannot omit : tiz. one morning early, lying in my 
bed, and filled with thoughts about my danger 
from the appearance of savages, I found it discom- 
posed me very much ; upon which those words of 
the Scripture came mto my thoughts, " Call upon 
me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, 
and thou shalt glorify me.'' 

Upon this^ rishig chccrfiiHy out of my bed, my 
heart was not only comforted, but I was guided and 
encouraged to pray earnestly to God for deliverance. 
When I had done praying, I took up my Bible, 
and opening it to read, the first words that pre# 
isented to me were, ''Wait on the Liord, and.be 9f 



f5e THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

good cheer, and he shall strengthen thy heart; 
Wait, I say« on the Lord/' It is impossible to ex- 
press the comfort this gave me ; and in retom, I 
thankfully laid down the book, and was no more 
sad, at least, not on that occasion. 

In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, 
and reflections, it caVne into my thoughts one day, 
that all this might be a mere chimera of my own, 
and that this foot might be the print of my own 
foot, when I came on shore from my boat. This 
cheered me up a little too, and I began to persuade 
myself it was all a delusion ; that it was nothing 
else but my own foot; and why might not I come 
that way from the boat, as well as I was going that 
way to the boat ? Again, I considered also, that I 
could by no means tell for certain where I had trod, 
and where I had not ; and that if at last this was 
only the print of my own foot, I had played the 
part of those fools, who strive to make stories of 
spectres and apparitions, and then are themselves 
frighted at them more than any body else. 

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad 
again; for I had not stirred out of my castle for 
three days and nights, so that I began to starve for 
provision; for I had little or nothing within doors^ 
but some barley-cakes and water. Then I knew 
that my goats wanted (to be milked too, which 
usually was my evening diversion : and the poor 



OF ROBINSON CRtJSOE. «53 

creatures V/ere in great pain and inconvenience for 
want of it ; and indeed it almost spoiled some of 
them, and almost dried up their milk. 

Heartening myself therefore with the belief, that 
this was nothing but the print of one of my own 
feet (and so I might be truly said to start at my 
own shadow,) I began to go abroad again, and 
went to my country-house to milk my flock ; but 
to see with what fear I went forward, how often I 
looked behind nie, how I was ready, every now 
and then, to lay down my basket, and run for my 
life ; it would have made any one have thought I 
was haunted with an evil conscience, or that 1 had 
been lately most terribly frighted ; and so indeed 
I had. 

However, as I went down thus two or three days, 
and having seen nothing, I began to be a little 
bolder, and to think there was really nothing in it 
but my own imagination; but I could not persuade 
myself fully of this, till I should go down to the 
shore again, and see this print of a foot, and mea- 
sure it by my own, and see if there was any si- 
militude or fitness, that I might be assured it was 
my own foot. But when I came to the place first, 
it appeared evidently to me, that when I laid up 
my boat, I could not possibly be on shore any 
where thereabouts. Secondly, when I came to 
measure th^ mark with my own foot,' I found my 



S54 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

foot not so large by a great deal. Both these 
things filled my head with new imaginations, and 
gave me the vapours again to the highest degree ; 
BO that I shook with cold» like one in an ague, and 
I went home again, filled with the belief, that some 
man or men had been on shore there ; or, in short, 
that the island was inhabited^ and I might be sur* 
prised before I was aware ; and .what course to take 
for my security, I knew not* 

O what ridiculous resoluUous men take, when 
possessed with fear ! It deprives them of the use of 
those means which reason offers for their relief. 
The first thing I proposed to myself was, to throw 
down my enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle 
wild into the woods, that the enemy might not 
find them, and then frequent the island in prospect 
of the same, or the like booty; then to the simple 
thing of digging up my two corn-fields, that they 
might not find such a grain there, and still be 
prompted to frequent the island ; then jto demolish 
my bower and tent, that they might not see any 
vestiges of my habitation^ and be.prompted to look 
farther, in order to find out the persons inhabiting. 

These were the subject of tht first night^s cogi- 
tation» after I was com^ home again, while the 
apprehensions which ha4 so over-run my mind 
were fresh upon me, and my head was ftdl of 
vapours, as above. Thus fear of danger is ten 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. SS:»' 

thoaa^nd times more terrifying than danger itoelf, 
when apparent to the eyes ; and we find the bur« 
den of anxiety, greater by much than the evil which 
we are anxious about : but, which was worse than 
all this, I had not that relief in this trouble from 
the resignation I used to practise, that I hoped to 
have. I looked, I thought, like Saul, who com- 
plained not only that the Philistines were upon 
him, but that God had forsaken him ; for I did 
not now take due ways to compose my mind, by 
crying to God in my distress, and resting upon his 
providence, as I had done before, for my defence 
and deliverance ; which if I had done, I had, at 
least, been more cheerfully supported under this- 
new surprise, and perhaps carried through it with 
more rvBsolujbion. 

This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking 
all night ; but in the morning I, fell asleep, and 
having, by the amusement of my mind, been, as it 
were, tired, and my spirits exhausted, I slept yery 
soundly, and awaked much be tter composed than^ 
I had ever been before. And now I began ixp- 
think sedately ; and» upon the utmost debate with 
myselC I concluded, that this island, which was so 
exceeding pleasant, fruitful, and no farther front 
the main land than as I had se^n, was not so en-- 
tirely abandoned as I might imagine: that aU 
though there were no stated inhabitan t» who lived 



SM THE LIFE AND ADVElfrUaES 

on the spot; yet tbat there might sometimes come 
boats off from the shore, who either with design, 
or perhaps never but when they were driven by 
cross winds, might come to this place. 

That I had lived here fifleen years now, and had 
not met with the least shadow or figure of any 
people before ; and that if at any time they should 
be driven here, it was probable they went away 
again as soon as ever they could, seeing they had 
never thought fit to fix there upon any occasion, to- 
this time. 

That the most I could suggest any danger from, 
was, from any such casual accidental landing of 
straggling people from the main, who, as it was 
likely, if they were driven hither, were here 
against their wills ; so they made no stay here, but 
went off again with all possible speed, seldom stay- 
ing one night on shore, lest they should not have 
the help of the tides and daylight back again ; and 
that therefore I had nothing to do but to consider 
of some safe retreat, in case I should see any sa* 
yages land upon the spot. 

Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my 
cave so large, as to bring a door through again, 
which door, as I said, came out beyond where my 
fortification joined to the rock. Upon maturely 
considering this, therefore, I resolved to draw me 
a second fortification, in the manner of a semi* 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 25T 

circle, at a distance from my wall, just where I had 
planted a double row of trees about twelve years 
before, of which I made mention : these trees ha^ 
ving been planted so thick before, there wanted but 
a few piles to be driven between them« that they 
should be thicker and stronger^ and my wall would 
be soon finished. 

So that I had now a double wall^ and my outer 
wall was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, 
and every thing 1 could think of to make it strong; 
having in it seven little holes, about as big as 1 
might put my arm out at. In the inside of this I 
thickened my wall to about ten feet thick, con- 
tinually bringing earth out of my cave, and laying 
it at the foot of the wall, and walking upon it ; 
and through the seven holes I contrived to plant 
the muskets, of which I took notice that 1 got seven 
on shore out of the ship ; these, I say, I planted 
like my cannon, and fitted them into frames that 
held them like a carriage, that so I could fire all 
the seven guns in two minutes time. This wall I 
was many a weary month in finishing, and yet 
never thought myself safe till it was done. 

When this was done, I stuck all the ground 
without my wall, for a great way every way, as 
full with stakes or sticks of the osier-like wood, 
which I found so apt to grow, as they could well 
stand ; insomuch that I believe I might set in pear 

c B 



t38 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

twenty Uiousaad of them, leaving a pretty large 
space between them and my wall, that I might have 
room to see an enemy, and they might have no 
shelter from the young trees, if they attempted 
to approach my outer wall. 

Thus in two years time I had a thick grove ; 
and in five or six years time I had a wood before 
my dwelling, grown so monstrous thick and strong, 
that it was indeed perfectly impassable ; and no 
man of what kind soever would ever imagine that 
there was any thing beyond it, much less an habi- 
tation. As for the way I proposed myself to go in 
and out (for I lefl no avenue,) it was by setting two 
ladders ; one to a part of the rock which was low, 
and then broke in, and left room to place another 
ladder upon that; so when the two ladders were 
taken down, no man living could come down to 
me without mischiefing himself; and if they had 
come down, they were still on the outside of my 
outer wall. 

Thus I took all the measures human prudence 
could suggest for my own preservation ; and it will 
be seen at length, that they were not altogether 
without just reason ; though I foresaw nothing at 
that time more than my mere fear suggested. 

While this was doing, I was not altogether care- 
less of my other affairs; for I had a great concern 
upon me for my little herd of goats ; they were 
mot only a present supply to me upon every oc- 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 26t 

casion, and began to be sufficient for me, without 
the expense of powder and shot, but also abated 
the fatigue of my hunting after the wild ones; and 
I was loath to lose the advantage of them, and to 
have them all to nurse up over again* 

To this purpose, after long consideration, I could 
think but of two ways to preserve them : one was 
to find another convenient place to dig a cave un« 
der ground, and to drive them into it every night; 
and the other was to enclose two or three little bits 
of land, remote from one another, and as much 
concealed as I could, where I might keep about 
half a dozen young goats in each place ; so that 
if any disaster happened to the flock in general, I 
might be able to raise them again with little trouble 
and time: and this, though it would require a great 
deal of time and labour, I thought was the most 
rational design. 

Accordingly I spent «ome time, to find out the 
most retired parts of the island ; and I pitched up-, 
on one, which was as private indeed as my heart 
could wish; for it was a little damp piece of 
ground in the middle of the hollow and thick 
woods, where, as is observed, I almost lost myself 
once before, endeavouring to come back that way 
from the eastern part of the island. Here I found 
a clear piece of land near three acres, so surround- 
ed with woods, ijiat it was almost an enclosure by 

3 



S60 Tll£ LIFB AND ADVENTURES 

nature; at least it did not want near so much la- 
bour to make it so, as the other pieces of ground 
I had worked so hard at. 

I immediately went to work with this piece of 
ground^ and in less than a month's time I had so 
fenced it round, that my flock or herd^ call it which 
you please, which were not so wild now as at first 
they might be supposed to be, were well enough 
secured in it So without any farther delay, I re- 
moved ten she-goats and two he-goats to this piece ; 
and when there, I continued to perfect the fence, 
till I had made it as secure as the other, which^ 
however, I did at more leisure, and it too^ me up 
more time by a great deal. 



OF ROBINSON CJltJSOE. SQl 



CHAP. xn. 

/ ohseroc a Canoe out at sea — Find on the Shore the 
remnant qfti Feast of Cannibals — Horror of mind 
thereon^Double arm tm^self-^Terribly alarmed by 
a Goat-^^Discover a singiUar Cave, or Grotto, of 
which I form my Magazine'^My fears on account 
of the Savages begin to subside. 

All this labour I was at the expense oil, purely 
from my apprehensions on the account of the print 
of a man^s foot which I had seen ; for as yet^ I ne- 
ver saw any human creature come near the island, 
and I had now lived two years under these un« 
easinesses, which indeed made my life much less 
comfortable than it was before ; as may well be 
imagined, by any who know what it is to live in 
the constant snare of the fear of man ; and this 
I must observe with grief too, that the discomposure 
of my mind had too great impressions also upon 
the religious part of my thoughts; for the dread 
and terror of falling into the hands of savages and 
cannibals lay so upon my spirits, that I seldom 



209 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

found myself in a due temper for application 
to my Maker; at least, not with the sedate calm- 
ness and resignation of soul which I was wont to 
do. I rather prayed to God as under great afflic- 
tion and pressure of mind« surrounded with danger, 
and in expectation every night of being murdered 
and devoured before the morning ; and I must tes- 
tify from my experience, that a temper of peace, 
thankfulness, love, and affection, is much more the 
proper frame for prayer, than that of terror and 
discomposure; and that under the dread of mischief 
impending, a man is no more fit for a comforting 
performance of the duty of praying to God, than 
he is for repentance on a sick-bed ; for these dis- 
composures afiect the mind as the others do the 
body; and the discomposure of the mind must 
necessarily be as great a disability as that of the 
body, and much greater; praying to God being 
properly an act of the mind, not of the body. 

But to go on : After I had thus secured one part 
of my little living stock, I went about the whole 
island, searching for another private place, to make 
such another deposit ; when wandering more to the 
west point of the island than I had ever done yet, 
and looking out to sea, I thought I saw a boat up- 
on the sea, at a great distance ; I had found a per- 
spective glass or two in one of the seamen's chests, 
which I saved out of our ship; but I had it not 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOB. 803 

about me, and this was so remote, that I could not 
tell what to make of it^ though I looked at it till 
my eyes were not able to look any longer : whether 
it was a boat, or not, I do not know ; but as I de* 
scended from the hill, I could see no more of it, so 
I gave it over ; only I resolved to go no more wit^« 
out a perspective glass in my pocket. 

When I was come down the hill, to the end of 
the island, where indeed I had never been before, 
I was presently convinced, that the seeing the print 
of a man's foot, was not such a strange thing in 
the island as I imagined ; and, but that it was a 
special providence that I was cast upon the side of 
the island where the savages never came, I should 
easily have known, that nothing was more frequent 
than for the canoes from the main, when they hap- 
pened to be a little too far out at sea, to shoot over 
to that side of the island for harbour; likewise, as 
they ofteii met, and fought in their canoes, the vic- 
tors, having taken any prisoners, would bring them 
over to this shore, where, according to their dread- 
ful customs, being all cannibals, they would kill 
and eat them : of which hereafter. 

When I was come down the hill to the shore, 
as I said above, being the S. W. point of the island, 
I was perfectly confounded and amazed ; nor is it 
possible for me to express the horror of my mind, 
at seeing the i^ore spread with skulls, hands, feet. 



set THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

and Other bones of haman bodies ; and particularly 
observed a place where there had been a fire 
made, and a circle dug in the eanh, like a cock- 
pit, where it is auppoBed the savage wretches had 
sat down to their iobuman feastings upon the 
bodies of their fellow-creatures. 

I was so astonished with the sight of these things, 
that I entertained no notions of any danger to my- 
self from it, for a long while; all my apprehen- 
sions were buried in the thoughts of Nuch a pitch 
of inhuman, hellish brutality, and the horror of the 
degeneracy of human nature; which, though I had 
heard of often, yet I never had so near a view of 
before : in short, I turned away my face from the 
horrid spectacle; my stomach grew sick, and I was 
just at the point of fainting, when nature dischar- 
ged the disorder from my stomach, and having to- 
mited with an uncommon violence, I was a littie 
relieved, but coald not bear to stay in tbeftlace a 
moment; so I got me np the hill again with all 
the speed I could, and walked on towards my own 
habitation. 

When I came a little out of that part of tbe 

island, I stood still awhile as amazed; and then 

recovering myself, I looked up with the utmost 

af my soul, and with a flood of tears in 

gave God thanks, that had cast my first 

art of the world where I was distinguish- 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 965 

ed from such dreadful creatures as these ; and that 
though I had esteemed my present condition very-, 
miserable, had yet given me so many comforts in 
it, that I had still more to give thanks for than to 
complain of; and this above all, that I had, even 
in this miserable condition, been comforted with 
the knowledge of himself, and the hope of hifi 
blessing, which was a felicity more than sufficient* 
ly equivalent to all the misery which I had suffer- 
ed, or could suf&r. 

In this frame of thankfulness I went home to my 
castle, and began to be much easier now, as to thef^ 
safety of my circumstances, than ever I was be- 
fore; for I observed, that these wretches never 
came to this island in search of what they could 
get ; perhaps not seeking, not wanting, or not ex- 
pecting, any thing here, and having often, no doubt 
been up in the covered woody part of it, without 
finding any thing to their purpose. I knew I had 
been here now almost eighteen years, and never 
saw the least footsteps of a human creature there 
before ; and might be here eighteen more as en- 
tirely concealed as I was now, if I did not discover 
myself to them, which I had no manner of occasion 
to do, it being my only business to keep myself 
entirely concealed where I was, unless I found a 
better sort of creaturels than cannibals to make m^ 
self known tOi, 



8M THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the 
savage wretches that I have been speaking of, and 
of the wretched inhaman custom of their devouring 
and eating one another up, that I continued pensive 
and sad, and kept close within my own circle for 
almost two years after this : when I say my own 
circle, I mean by it my three plantations, viz. my 
castle, my country-seat, which I called my bower, 
and my enclosure in the woods; nor did I look 
after this for any other use than as an enclosure 
lor my goats ; for the aversion which nature gave 
tne to these hellish wretches was such, that I was 
as fearful of seeing them as of seeing the devil 
himself; nor did I so much as go to look after 
my boat in all this time, but began rather to think 
of makihg me another ; for I could not think of 
ever making any more attempts to bring the other 
boat round the island to me, lest I should meet 
with some of those creatures at sea, in which, if 
I had happened to have fallen into their hands^ I 
knew what would have been my lot. 

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had, that I 
was in no danger of being discovered by these 
people, began to wear ojQT my uneasiness about 
them ; and I began to live just in the same com- 
posed manner as before; only with this difierence, 
that I used more caution, and kept my eyes more 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. «6T 

about me than I did before^ lest I should happen 
to be seen by any of them ; and particularly, I 
was more cautious of firing my gun, lest any of 
them on the island should happen to hear it; and 
it was therefore a very good providence to me, 
that I had furnished myself with a tame breed of 
goats, that I had no need to hunt any more about 
the woods, or shoot at them ; and if I did catch 
any more of them after this, it was by traps and 
snares, as I had done before; so that for two 
years afber this, I believe I never fired my gun 
once ofi^ though I never went out without it; and, 
which was more, as I had saved three pistols out 
of the ship, I always carried them out with me, 
or at least two of them, sticking them in my goat- 
skin belt : I likewise furbished up one of the great 
cutlasses that I had out of the ship, and made me 
a belt to put it in also; so that I was now a most 
formidable fellow to look at when I went abroad, 
if you add to the former description of myself, the 
particular of two pistols, and a great broad-sword, 
hanging at my side in a belt, but iiiithout a scab- 
bard. 

Things going on thus, as I have said, for some 
time, I seemed, excepting these cautions, to be re- 
duced to my former calm sedat^ way of living. 
All these things tended to shew me more and more- 
how &r my condition was firom being miserably 



«63 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

oompared to some others ; nay« to many other par- 
ticulars of life, which it might have pleased God 
to have made my lot. It put me upon reflecting, 
how little repining there would be among man^ 
kind, at any condition of life, if people would ra- 
ther compare their condition with those that are 
worse, in order to be thankful, than be always com- 
paring them with those which are better, to assist 
their murmurings and complainings. 

As in my present condition there were not really 
many things which I wanted, so indeed I thought 
that the frights I had been in about these savage 
wretches, and the concern I had been in for my 
own preservation, had taken off the edge of my 
invention for my own conveniences, and I had 
dropped a good design, which I had once bent my 
thoughts upon ; and that was, to try if I could not 
make some of my barley into malt, and then try to 
brew fnyself some beer : this was really a whimsi- 
cal thought, and I reproved myself often for the 
simplicity of it; for I presently saw there would 
be the want of several things necessary to the 
making my beer, that would be impossible for me 
to supply ; as, first, casks to preserve it in, which 
was a thing that, as I have observed already, I 
could never compass; no, though I spent not many 
days, but weeks, nay months, in attempting it, but 
to no purpose. In the next place, I had no hops 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. S69 

to make itkeep, no yeast to make it work, no cop^ 
per or kettle to make it boil ; and yet, had not all 
these things intervened, I mean the frights and 
terrors I was in about the savages, 1 had under- 
taken it, and perhaps brought it to pass too ; for I 
seldom gave any thing over without accomplish- 
ing it, when I once had it in my head enough to 
begin it 

But my invention now ran quite another way ; 
for night and day I could think of nothing, but 
how I might destroy some of these monsters in 
their cruel bloody entertainment, and, if possible, 
save the victim they should bring hither to destroy. 
It would take up a larger volume than this whole 
work is intended to be, to set down all the contn- 
yances I hatched, or rather brooded upon in my 
thoughts, for the destroying these creatures, or 
at least frightening them, so as to prevent their 
coming hither any more; but all was abortive; 
notliing c^uld be possible to take effect, unless I 
was to be there to do it myself; and what could 
one man do among them, when perhaps there 
might be twenty or thirty of them together, with 
their darts, or their bows and arrows, with which* 
they could shoot as true to a mark as I could with 
my gun ? 

Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under the 
place where they made their fire, and put4n five^ 



870 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

or six poaods of gunpowderj which, when they 
kindled their fire« would consequently take fire^ 
and blow up all that was near it ; but as, in the 
first place, I should be very loath to waste so much 
powder upon them, my store being now within the 
quantity of a barrel, so neither could I be sure of 
its going off at any certain time, when it might 
surprise them ; and, at best, that it would do little 
more than just blow the fire about their ears, and 
fright them, but not sufficient to make them for- 
sake the place ; so I laid it aside, and then propo- 
sed, that I would place myself in ambush in some 
convenient place, with my three guns all double- 
loaded, and in the nnddle of their bloody ceremony 
let fly at them, when I should be sure to kill or 
wound perhaps two or three at every shoot; and 
then falling in upon them with my three pistols, and 
my sword, I made no doubt but that, if there were 
twenty, I should kill them all : this fancy pleased 
my thoughts for some weeks, and I was so full of 
it that I often dreamed of it ; and sometimes, that 
I was just going to let fly at them in my sleep. 

I went so far with it in my indignation, that I 
employed myself several days to find out proper 
places to put myself in ambuscade, as I said, to 
watch for them; and I went frequently to the place 
itself, which was now grown more familiar to me; 
and especially while my mind was thus fUled with 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOK. «71 

thoughts of revenge, and of a bloody putting 
twenty or thirty of them to the sword, at I may 
call it; but the horror I had at the place, and at 
the signals of the barbarous wretches devouring 
one another, abated my malice. 

Well, at length I found a place in the side of 
the hill, where I was satisfied I might securely 
wait till I saw any of the boats coming, and might 
then, even before they would be ready to come oa 
shore, convey myself unseen into thickets of treea^ 
in one of which there was a hollow large enough 
to conceal me entirely ; and where I might sit, 
and observe all their bloody doings, and take my 
full aim at their heads, when they were so close 
together, as that it would be next to impossible 
that I should miss my shoot, or that I could fail 
wounding three or four of them at the first shoot. 

In this place then I resolved to fix my design ; 
and accordingly I prepared two muskets and my 
ordinary fowling-piece. The two muskets I baded 
with a brace of slugs each, and four or five smaller 
bullets, about the size of pistol-bullets, and the 
fowling-piece I loaded with near an handful of swan- 
shot, of the largest size ; I also loaded my pistols 
with about four bullets each : and in this posture, 
well provided with ammunition for a second and 
third charge, I prepared myself for my expedition. 

After I had thus laid the schen^e for my design^ 



«72 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

and in my imagination put it in practice^ I continual- 
ly made my tour every morning up to the top of 
the hill, which was from my castle, as I called it» 
about three miles or more, to see if I could observe 
any boats upon the sea, coming near the island, or 
standing over towards it; but I began to tire of 
this hard duty, after I had for two or three months 
constantly kept my watch ; but came always back 
without any discovery, there having not in all that 
time been the least appearance, not only on or near 
the shore, but not on the whole ocean, so far as 
my eyes or glasses could reach every way. 

As long as I kept up my daily tour to the hill to 
look out, so long also I kept up the vigour of my 
design, and my spirits seemed to be all the while 
in a suitable frame for so outrageous an execution, 
as the killing twenty or thirty naked savages for 
an offence, which I had not at all entered into a 
discussion of in my thoughts, any fuitherthan my 
passions were at first fired by the horror I con- 
ceived at the unnatural custom of the people of 
that country, who, it seems, had been sufiTered by 
Providence, in his wise disposition of the world, to 
have no other guide than that of their own abomi* 
nable and vitiated passions ; and jronsequently were 
left, attd perhaps had been for some ages, to act 
such horrid things, and receive such dreadful cus- 
toms, as nothing but nature, entirely abandoned of 



M ItdBtNSON CRUISOE. 813 

Heaven^ and actuated by tome hellish degene- 
racy» could have nm them into ; but now, when, 
as I have said, I began to be weaiy of the fruitless 
excursion which I had made so long> and so far, 
every morning in vain ; so my opinion of the ac* 
tion itself began to alter, and I began, with coolei^ 
iind calmer thoughts, to consider what it was I was 
going to engage in ; what authority or call I had 
to pretend to be judge and executioner upon these 
men as criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit 
for so many ages to suffer, unpunished to go on, 
and to be, as it were, the executioners of his judge- 
ments upon one another; also, how far these people 
were ofienders against me^ and what right I had to 
engage in the quarrel of that blodd, which they shed 
promiscuously one upon another. I debated this 
yery of)»n with myself thus : Ho^ do I know what 
God himself judges in this particular case ? It is 
certain these people do not commit this as a crime; 
it is not against their own consciences reproving, or 
their light reproaching them. They do not know 
it to be an ofifenc^, and then commit it in defiance 
of divine justice, as we do in almost all the sins we 
commit. They think it no more a crime to kill a 
captive taken in war, than we do to kill an ox, nor 
to eat human flesh, than we do to eat mutton. 

When I had considered this a little, it followed 
necessarily, that I was certainly in the wrong in it; 

T0L.I. s ' 



<74 THE LIFE AND ADYBNTUKES 

dial these people were not imirdeien in the flense 
th«!t I had befoie condemned them in my thoughts, 
any more than those Christians were murderers, 
who often put to death the prisoners taken in battle; 
or more fireqnendy, upon many occasions, pat friide 
troops of men to the sword, withoat givin^oarter, 
though they threw down their aims and submitted. 
In the nest frfaocb i^ occonred to me, that albek 
the usage they gave one another was thus brutish 
and inhuman, yet it was really nothing to me: 
these people had done me no injury : that if they 
attempted me, or I saw it necessary for my imme- 
diate preservation to fall upon them, something 
might be said for it; but that I was yet out of 
their power, and they had really no knowledge of 
me, and consequently no design, upon me; and 
therefore it could not be just for me to DbJI upon 
them : that this would justify the conduct of the 
Spaniards, in all their barbarities practised in 
America, where they destroyed millions of these 
people, who, however they were idolaters and 
barbarians, and had several bloody and barbarous 
rites in their customs, such as sacrificing human 
bodies to their idols, were yeW as to the Spaniards, 
very innocent people ; and that the rooting them 
out of the country is spoken of with the utmost 
abhorrence and detestation, even by the Spaniards 
themselves, at this time; and by all other Christian 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 875 

■ations of Europe, as a mere buteliery^ a bloody 
and unnataral piece of craelty, ui^ostifiable either 
to God or man; and such, as for which the yery 
name of a Spaniard' is reckoned to be frightful and 
terrible to ail people of humanity, or of Christiaa 
compassion : as if the kingdom of Spain were parti* 
cularly eminent for the product of a race of raeq, 
who were without principles of tenderness, or the 
common bowels of pity to the miseraUe, which is 
reckoned to be a mark of a generous temper in 
the mind. 

These considerations really put me to a pause, 
and to a kind of a full stop ; and I began by litde 
and little to be ofiPof my design, and to conclude I 
had taken a wrong measure in my resolutions to 
attack the savages; that it was not my business to 
meddle with them, unless they first attacked me, 
and this it was my business, if possible, to prevent; 
but that, if I were discovered and attacked, then I 
knew my duty. 

On the other hand, I argued with myself, that 
this really was the way not to deliver myself, but 
entirely to ruin and destroy myself; for unless I 
^vas sure to kill every one that not only should be 
on shore at that time, but that should ever come 
on shore afterwards, if but one oi them escaped ta 
tell their country-people what had happened, they 
would come over again by thousands to revenge 



97« THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

the death of their fellows; and I should only brings 
upon myself a certain destruction, which at preseat 
I had no manner of occasion for. 

Upon the whole, I concluded, that neither in 
principles nor in policy, I ought one way or other 
to concern myself in this affair : that my business 
was, by all possible means, to conceal myself from 
them, and not to leave the least signal to them to 
guess by, that there were any living creatures upon 
the island, I mean of human shape. 

Religion joined in with this prudential, and I 
was convinced now many ways that I was perfectly 
out of my duty, when I was laying all my bloody 
schemes for the destruction of innocent creatures, 
I mean innocent as to me ; as to the crimes they 
were guilty of towards one another, I had nothing 
to do with them ; they were national punishments 
to make a just retribution for national ofienc^s; 
and to bring public judgments upon those who 
offend in a public manner, by such ways as best 
please God. 

This appeared so clear to me now, that nothing 
. was a greater satisfaction to me» than that I had 
not been suffered to do a thing which I now saw 
so much reason to believe would have been no less 
a sin than that of wilful murder, if I had committed 
it; ,and I gave most humble thanks on my knees 
to God, that had thus delivered me from blood* 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. S7T 

gQiltiness; beseeching him to grant me the pro- 
tection of his Providence, that I might not fall 
into the hands of barbarians ; or that I might not 
lay my hands upon them, unless I had a more clear 
call from Heaven to do it, in defence of my own 
life. 

In this disposition I continued fbr near a year 
after this: and so far was I from desiring an occa- 
sion for falling upon these wretches, that in all that 
time I never once went up the hill to see whether 
there were any of them in sight, or to know whether 
any of them had been on shore there, or not ; that 
I might not be tempted to renew any of my con- 
trivances against them, or be provoked, by any ad« 
vantage which might present itself, to fall upon 
them; only this I did, I went and removed my 
boat, which I had on the other side of the island, 
and carried it down to the east end of the whole 
island, where I ran it into a little cove which I 
found under some high rocks, and whero I knew^ 
by reason of the currents, the savages durst not, at 
least would not, come with their boats upon any 
account whatsoever. 

With my boat I carried away every thing that I 
had left there belonging to her, though not neces- 
sary for the bare going thither; viz. a mast and 
sail, which I had made for her, and a thing like an 
anchor, but indeed, which could no( h» calledi 



878 THE LIFE AKD ADVENTURES 

either anchor or grappling; however^ it was the 
best I could make of its kind. All these I re- 
moyed» that there might not be the least shadow 
of any discovery, or any appearance of any boat, or 
of any habitation upon the island. 

Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more reti- 
red than ever, and seldom went from my cell, other 
than upon my constant employment, viz. to milk 
my she-goats, and manage my little flock in the 
W<M)d, which, as it was quite on the other part of 
the island, was quite out of danger; for certain it 
is, that these savage people, who sometimes haunt* 
ed this island, never came with any thoughts of 
finding any thing here, and c<msequently never 
Virandered off from the coast; ^nd I doubt not but 
they might have been several times on shore, after 
my apprehensions of them had made me cautious;, 
as well as before; and indeed I looked back with 
some homnr i4>on the thoughts of what my condition 
would have been, if I had chopped upon them, and 
been discovered before that, when naked and un« 
armed, except with ope gun, and that loaded often 
only with small shot I walked every where, peep- 
ing and peering about the island, to see what I 
could get : what a surprise should I have been in, 
if, when I discovei«d the print of a man's foot^ I 
had imtead of that seen fifteen or twenty savage^ 
and fouQd them prsuing ipe, and, by the swiftness 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 970 

of th^r nmningpr no posBibility of my escaping 
them! 

The thoughts of this sometimes sank my yery 
soul within me, and distressed my mind so much, 
that I Goold not soon reooyer it ; to think what I 
should haye done, and how I not only should not 
haye been able to resist them, but eyen should not 
haye had presence of mind enough to do what I 
might haye done; much less what now, after so 
much consideration and preparation, I might be 
able to do. Indeed, after serious thinking of these 
things, I would be yery melancholy, and sometimes 
it would last a great while; but I resolyed it at last 
all into thankfulness to that Proyidence which had 
deliyered me from so many unseen dangers, and 
had kept me from those mischiefs, which I could 
no way haye been the agent in deliyering myself 
from ; because I had not the least notion of any 
such thing depending^ or the least supposition of its 
being possible. 

This renewed a contemplation, which often had 
come to my thoughts in former time, when first I 
began to see the merciful dispositions of Heayen, 
in the dangers we run thnragh in this life ; how 
wonderfully we are deliyered ^hen we know no» 
thing of it; how, when we are in a quandary, (as 
we call it,) a doubt or hesitation, whether to go 
this way, or that way, a secret hint shall direct us 



980 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

this way, when we intended to go another way; nay, 
when sense, our own inclination, and perhaps bu8i«> 
iiess, has called to go the other way, yet a strange 
impression upon the mind, from we know not what 
iq>ring8, and by we know not what power, shall 
OTer-rule us to go this way; and it shall afterwards 
appear, that had we gone that way which we would 
ha?e gone, and even to Qur imagination ought to 
have gone, we should haxre been ruined and lost. 
Upon these, and many li|(e reflections, I; afterwards 
made it a certain rule with me, that whenever I 
&und those secret hints, or pressings of my mind, 
to doing or not doing any thing that presented, or 
to going this way or that way, I never failed to 
obey the secret dictate ; though 1 knew no other 
reason for it, than that such a pi^siire, or such an 
hint, hung upon my mind : I could givie many ex* 
amples of the success of this conduct in the course 
of my life; but more especially in the latter part of 
my inhabiting this unhappy island; besides many 
occasions which it is very likely I might have taken 
notice of, if I had seen with the same eyes then 
that I saw with now: But it is never too late to be 
wise ; and I cannot but advise all considering men, 
whose lives are attended with such extraordinary 
incidents as mine, or even though not so extraordi* 
nary, not to slight such secret intimations of Provi- 
denqe, iet^ them come from what invisible intelli- 



OF R0BIN30N CRUSOE. 28t 

gence they vrill ; that I shall not discudi^ and per- 
haps cannot account for; bat certainly they are a 
proof of the converse of spirits, and the secret com- 
munication between those embodied, and those un- 
embodied ; and such a proof as can never be with- 
stood : of which I shall have occasion to give some 
very remarkable instances, in the remainder of my 
solitary residence in this dismal place. 

I believe the reader of this will not think it 
strange, if I confess that these anxieties, these con- 
stant dangers I lived in, and the concern that was 
now upon me, put an end to all invention, and to 
all the contrivances that I had laid for my future 
»cconmiodations and conveniences. I had the care 
of my safety more now upon my hands than that 
of my food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop 
a stick of wood now, for fear the noise I should 
make should be heard ; much less would I fire a 
gun, for the same reason; and, above all, I was 
very uneasy at making any fire, lest the smoke, 
which is visible at a great distance in the day, 
should betray me; and for this reason I removed 
that part of my business which required fire, such 
as burning of pots and pipes, &c. into my new apart- 
ment in the wood ; where, after I had been some 
time, I found, to my unspeakable consolation, a 
mere natural cave in the earth, which went in ^ 
vast way^ and where, I dare say^ no 8av9ge> had h<i 



S88 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

been at the mouth of it» would be so hardy as to 
renture in» nor indeed would any man else, but one 
who> like me, wanted nothing ao much as a safe 
retreat 

The mouth of this hoUow was at the bottiMn of a 
great rock, where, by mere accident, (I would say, 
if I did not see an abundant reason to ascribe sdl 
such things now to ProFidence,) I was cutting down 
some thick branches of trees to make charcoal ; 
and before I go on, I must observe the reason of 
my making this charcoal, which 'was thus : 

I was afraid of making a smoke about my habi- 
tation, as I said before ; and yet I could not live 
there without baking my bread, cooking my meat^ 
&c. ; so I contrived to bum some wood here, as I 
had seen done in England under turf, till it became 
chark, or dry coal ; and then putting the fire out^ 
I preserved the coal to carry home, and perform 
the other services^ which fire was wanting for at 
home, without danger or smoke. 

But this by the bye : while I was cutting down 
some wood here, I perceived that behind a very 
thick branch of low brushwood, or underwood, 
there was a kind of hollow place ; I was curious to 
}ook into it, and getting with difficulty into the 
mouth of it, I found it was pretty large, that is to 
say, sufficient for me to stand upright in it, and 
perhaps another with me; but I must confess tm 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. S88 

yoa, I'made more haste out than I did in; when 
looking further into the place^ which was perfectly 
darkj I saw two broad shining eyes of some crea^ 
tore, whether devil or man I knew not, which 
twinkled like two stars, the dim light from the 
cave's mouth shining directly in and making the 
reflection. 

,' However, after some pause^ I recovered myself 
and began to call myself a thousand fook^ and tell 
myself, that he that was afraid to see thedevil« was 
not fit to live twenty years in an island all alon^ 
and that I durst to believe there was nothing in 
this cave that was ipore frightful than myself: upon 
this, plucking up my courage, I took up a large 
firebrand, and in I rushed again, with the stick 
flaming in my hand : I had not gone three steps 
in, but I was almost as much frightened as I was 
before; for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of a 
man in some pain ; and it was followed by a broken 
noise, as if of words half-expressed, and then a 
deep sigh again : I stepped back, and was indeed 
struck with such a surprise, that it put me into a 
cold sweat; and {f I h^d had an hat on my head, I 
will not answer for it that my hair might not have 
lifted it off. But still plucking up my spirits a» 
well as I could, and encouraging myself a little, 
with considering that the power and presence of 
God was every where, and was able to protect me; 



SM THE IIFE AND A0VENTURE8 

upon this I stepped forward again> and by the light 
of the firebrand, holding it up a little over my 
iiead, I saw lying on the ground a most monstroos 
frightful old he-goat, just making his will, as we 
say gasping for life, and dying indeed of a mere 
old age. 

I stirred him a little to see if I could get him 
out, and he essayed to get up, but was not able to 
raise himself; and 1 thought with myself, he might 
even lie there ; for if he had frightened me so, he 
would certainly fright any of the savages, if any of 
them should be so hardy as to come in there, while 
be had any life in him. 

I was now recovered ' from my surprise, and 
began to look round me, when I found the cave 
was but very small ; that is to say, it might be 
about twelve feet over, but in no manner of shape, 
either round or square, no hands having ever been 
employed in making it but those of mere nature: I 
observed also, that there was a place at the farther 
side of it that w£nt in farther, but so low, that it 
required me to creep upon my hands and knees to 
get into it, and whether it went, I knew not; so 
having no candle, I gave it over for some time, but 
. resolved to come again the next day, provided with 
candles and a tinder-box, which I had made of the 
lock of one of the muskets, with some wildfire in 
iJbe pan. 



OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. S85 

. Accordingly, the next day» I came provided with 
six large candles of my own making, for I made 
very good candles now of goats tallow ; and going 
into this low place, I was obliged to creep upon all 
fours, as I have said, almost ten jrards ; which, by 
the way, I thought was a venture bold enough, 
considering that I knew not how far it might go, 
or what was beyond it. When I was got through 
the streight, I found the roof rose higher up I be- 
lieve near twenty feet; but never was such a glori*- 
ous sight scei> in the kland, I dare say, as it was^ 
to look round the sides and roof of this vault or 
cave. The walls reflected an hundred thousand 
lights to me from my two candles ; what it was in 
the rock, whether diamonds, or any other precious 
stones, or gold, which I rather supposed it to be, I 
knew not. 

The place I was in was a most delightful cavity^ 
or grotto, of its kind, as could be expected, though 
perfectly dark; the floor was dry and level, and 
had a sort of small loose gravel upon it; so that 
there was no nauseous creature to be seen; neither 
was there any damp or wet on the sides of the roof: 
the only difficulty in it was the entrance, whicbit 
however, as it was a place of security, and such a 
retreat as I wanted, I thought that was a conveni- 
ence; so that I was really rejoiced at the discovery, 
and resolved, without any delay, to bring some of 



tW THE LIFE AVD ADVKNTUREa 

those things which I was 'most anxious about to this 
place; particularly,' I resolved tb bring hither my 
"magazine of powder, and all my spare arms, viz. 
two fowling-pieceft|for I had three in all,] and three 
muskets (for of thepk I had eight in all) ; so I kept 
at my castle only^v^ which stood ready mounted, 
like pieces of cannon, on my utmost fence, and were 
ready also to take out upon any e^edition. 

Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, 
I was obliged to open the barrel of powder which 
I took up out of the sea, and which had been wet; 
and I found, that the water had penetrated about 
three or four inches into the powder on every side, 
which, caking and growing hard, had preserved the 
inside like a kernel in a shell; so that I had near 
sixty pounds of very good powder in the centre of 
the cask^; and this was an agreeable discovery to 
me at that tiine ; so I carried all away ^hither, never 
keeping above two or three pounds of powder with 
me- in my castle, for fear of a surprise of any kind; 
. I also carried thither all the lead I had left for bullets. 
I fancied myself now like one of the ancient gi- 
atots, which were said to live in caves and holes in 
the rocks, where none could come at them ; for I 
persuaded myself while I wa^ here, if five hundred 
savages were to hunt me, they could never find me 
out ; or if they did, they would pot venture to at- 
tack me here. 



OF BOBINSON CRUSOE* SStr 

The old goat, which I found expiring, di^d in 
^ha mouth of the save the next day after I made 
this discovery ; and I found it much easier to dig 
a great hole there, and throw him in, and cover 
him with earth, than to drag him out : so I inter- 
ted him there, to prevc^nt offence to my nose* 



END OF THE FIRST VOLUME. 



EoiNBURcn : 
Printed by James Ballaotyne & Co. 



^n 



tiz 4 - 1942 



