
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



IjJcX'- -^-J^^i II le^ . 



f ^ "\ >^ T H X 

IJ^ AND ADVENTURES ^ 

OF 

ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

OF rORKt MARINES: 

\VHO LlViD IICHT AN© TWXNTY TEARS ALONE XN AN 
UNINHABITED ISLAND, ON THK COAST OF AJUERXCA, 

NEAR THE MOUTH OF THE CREAT RIVER OROOMOqUE* 

WITH 

AN ACCOUNT OF HIS TRAVELS 

ROUND THREE PARTS OF THE GLOBE. 

I • " 

JVRirrEN BT HIMSELF. 



■ NRICHED WITH ELEGANT PLATES DESCRIPTIVE OF 'E 
SUBJECT. 



IN TWO VOLUMES. 



VOL. I. 



LONDON: :-': j;'^^ 

PRINTED FOR W. LANE, LEADENH-AWe^ifET. ' , •, 
MDCCXC. ^ :• • ^ • ■ >' V^"^ • - 



THE NEW YORK 
PUBLIC LIBRARTI 

75872?) A] 

I ASTOB, LENOX ANB 
ItILDEN FOUNDATIOmI 



PREFACE. 



TH E Merit and Efteem in whicli this 
admired work of the truly celebrated 
Daniel de Foe has been held^ will need no 
■other encomium than the numerous editions 
through which it has pafled. At this period 
the work is read with avidity, defire and 
pleafore; the younger branches may be faid 
to read it from their cradle, and the more 
advanced can find amufement for their leifure 
hours in thefe events ; the circumftences it 
contains engage the mind, and its principles 
55 of inftruftion are ^founded on Virtue and 
u3 Religion ; yet they are conveyed in fuch a 
gj pleafing manner, that you are .imperceptibly 
^ led through a wonderful hiftory to a fyftem 
2| of morality. 

Among the many editions prefented the 

public, fome are of too extravagant a pur- 

A 2 chafe; 



a PREFACE, 

<:hsSei others printed in a inaim c r inconfift' 
cnt with the liberality which (hould have 
fupported a work of this kind. 

It is therefore prefumed this edition, which 
is well printed, on good paper, enriched and 
cmbelliflied with curious defcr^)tive plates, 
and offered for fale at a very moderate price, 
will be fupported by a generous and difcera- 
ing Public 



DIRECTIONS FOR PLACING THB CUTS. 
PVL.I. 

Kobinfon Crufoe tlimbing the CWff'-^FrotifpUc^. 
Kobinfon Crufoe^s Difappointment in launching his 

Boat —.— — — — — — Facing Page xt» ^ 

Kobinfon Crufoe furprifed at the Print of a Foot «- 146 
Kobinfon Crufoe refcuing and prote£ling Fridays — 194 

FOL. II. 

Friday meeting his Father — FronlifpUce. 
Kobinfon Crafoe*s Inhabitants Difpute and Fight •— 45 
Kobinfon Crufoe*8 viewing Will Atkinses Bafket Houfe 91 
.Kobinfon Crufoe*s pafltng the great Chinefe Wall a 30 J 



msm 



THX 



LIFE AND ADVENTURES 



O F 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



I WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York, 
of a good family, though not of that country, my 
father being a foreigner of Bremen, who fettled firft 
^ at Hull.— He got a good eftate by merchandife, and 
leaving off his trade lived afterwards at York, from 
whence he had married my mother, whofe relations 
were named Robinfon, a very good family in that 
county, and from whom I was called Robinfon Kreutz- 
oaer ; but by the ufual corruption of words jin En* 
gland, we are now called, nay, we callourfelves,Calid 
write our name, Crufoe; and fo my companions always 
called me, 

A3 \\^i 



r 



^ ADVENTURE SOP* 

I had two elder brothers, one of whom was a lieute- 
fiant-colonel to an Eng)ifh regihient of foot in Flanders, 
formerly commanded by thie faraoiw Gol. Lockharr, and 
was killed at a battle near Dunkirk, againll the Spa- 
niards. — What became of my fecond brother I neVer 
knew, any more than my father or mother did know 
what was become of me. 

Being the third fen of the family, and not bred to any 
trade, my head began to be filled very early with ram- 
bling thoughts. — My father,. who was very ancient, had 
given me a competent (hare of learning, as far as houf* 
education, and a country free-fchool generally goes, and 
de/igned me for the' law ; but I would be fatisfied with 
notij'pg bat going to fea, and my inclination to this led 
me (o Urongfy aginft the will, nay, the commands of 
my father, and againll all -the intreaties and perfuafions 
oftiiy mother and other friends, that there Teemed to be 
fomethinj> fatal in that piDpenfion of nature, tending 
dircftiy to the life of mifery which was to befal me. 

•My father, a wife and grave man, gave me ferious 
and excellent counfel againfl what he £orefaw was my 
de^fign. — He called me one mornittg into his chamber^ 
where he was confined by the gout, and expoftulated 
very warmly with me on this fub^eft — He afked n>e, 
what reafohs, more than a mere wandering inciinaiion, 
I had for leaving my father's hoafe and my native coun- 
try, wiiere I might be well introduced, and had a pi-of- 
pctfl of raifiiig my fortune by application and indullry, 
v^ith a life of eafe and pleafure. — He told me, it was 
men of defpcratc fortunes oa one band, or of afpiring 
fuperior fortunes on the other, and who went abroad up- 
on adventures, to rife by enterprife, and make them- 
felves famous in undertakings of a nature out of the 
common road ; that thefe things were all either too far / 
above me, or too far below me ; that mine was the 
. middle (late, or what might be called the upper ilation 
of low life, which he had found, by long experience, 
was the beli fiate in the world ; the moA i'uited to hu- 
man happinefs, not expofed to the miferies and hard- 
ihips, the labour and fufferings of the mechanic part 
of mankind, and not erabarraiTed with the pride, lux- 
ury, ambition, and envy of the upper part of man- 
kind 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 7 

kind*—* He iqHd me, I might judge of the happinefs of 
this flate by this one thing, viz. that this was the 
ilate of life which all other people envied ; that kingr 
have frequently lamented the miferable cpnfequences of 
being born to great things, and wifhed they had been 
placed in the middle of the two extremeg, between the 
m^an and the great ; that the wife man gave his tefti* 
mony to this, as the juil flandard of true ^iicity, whea 
he prayed to have neither poverty nor riches. 

He bade me obferve it, and I ihould always find^ that 
the calamities of life were (hared among the upper and 
lower part of mankind ; but that the middle flation 
had the feweft difaflers, and was not expofed to fo many 
vicifiitudes as the higher or lower part of mankind ; 
nay, they were not fubje^ted to fo many dtflempers and 
nneafinefs, either of body or mind, as tho(c were, who, 
by vicious living, luxury and extravagancies -on one 
hand, or by hard kbour, want of nf:ce^aries, and mean 
or infufficient diet on the other hand, bring diftem* 
pers upon themfelves by the. natural confequcnces of 
tl^eir way of living ; that the middle ftation oi life 
was calculated for all kind of virtues, ami all kind of 
enjoyments ; that peace and plenty were the hand-maids 
of a middle fortune; that temperence, moderation, 
quietnefs, health, fociety, all agreeable diverfions, aqd 
all defirable pleafures, were the bleffings attending the 
middle ilation of life ; that this way men went filently 
and fmoothly thro' the world, and comfortably out of it; 
not embarraiTed with the labours of the hands, or of the 
head ; not fold to a life of flavery for daily bread, pr 
harraffed with perplexed circumftances, which rob the 
foul of peace, and the body of reft ; not enraged with 
the paffion of envy, or the fecret burning luft of ambition 
for great things 1 but in eafy circumftances. Aiding gently 
thro* the world, and fenfibly tafting the fwcets of living 
witliout the bitter; feeling that they are happy, and learn- 
ing by every day's experience to know it more fenfibly. 
After this he preifcd me earneftly, and in the moft af- 
fectionate manner, not to play the young m^n* or to 
precipitate myfelf into miferies, which nature, and the 
'ftation of life I was born in, feemed to have provided 
againft; that I was un^er no ueceffix.^ ^^ fe^vci%'Ki:?i 



4^ 

^ 



8 A0VENTURES OP 

bread, that he would do well for me, and endeavour ta 
enter me fairly into the ftation of life which he had 
b^en jufl recommending to me ; and that if I was not 
very eafy and happy in the world, i$. mull be my mer;e 
fate, or fairlt, that mufl hinder it ; and that he ihoald 
have nothing tq anfwer for, having thus difcharged his 
duty in warning me againil meafures which he knew 
wpuld be to my hurt.— -In a word, that as he would da - 
very kind things for me, if I would flay aad fettle at 
home,/ as .he diredled ;, fo he would not have fo much 
h^nd in my misfortunes as to give me any encourage- * 
ment to go away; and toclofe all, he told me, I had-'-^ 
my elder brother for an example, to whom he had ufed 
the fame earneil perfuaiions to keep him from g^ing inta 
the Low-Country wars, but could not prevail, his young 
deii*es prompting him to run into the army, where he 
was killed ; and though he faid he would not ceafe to 
pray forme, yet he would venture to fay to me, that if 
I did take, this fbblifti ftep, God would not blefs me ; 
and I would have leifure hereafter to refledb upon hav- 
ing negle(Sled his counfel, when there might be none tOt 
affifl in my recovery^ 

I obferved in this lall part of his difcourfc, which was 
^truiy. prophetic, tho' I fuppofe my father did not know 
it to be {o himfeif ; I fay, I obferved the tears run down 
his face very plentifully* efpccially when he fpoke of my 
brother who was killed; and that when he fpoke of my 
having leifure cd repent, and none to ailifl me, he was 
fo moved, that he broke off the difcourfe, and told mc, 
his heart was (b full, he could fay no more to me. 

I was fmcerely afflrded with this difcourfe, as indeed 
who could be other wife r and I refolved not to think 
of going abroad any more, but to fettle at home accords 
ing to my father's defire. — But, alas ! a few days wore 
it all off; and, in (hort, to prevent any of my father's 
farther importunities^ in a few weeks after, I refolved 
to run quite away from him.— Howeyer, I did not a6t 
fo haftily neither, as the firft heat of my refolution 
prompted ; bat I took my mother at a time when I 
thought her a little pleafentcr than ordinary, and told her 
that my thoughts were fo entirely bent upon feeing the 
ff'oM, that I Aould never fettie to any thing with re- 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. ii 

Thefe wife and fober thoughts continued all the 

while the ftorm continued^ and indeed fome time after ; 

but the next day the wind was abated, and the fea 

calmer^ and I began to be a little .inured to it. Ifow- 

cver, I was very grave for all that day, being alfo a little 

fea-fick ftili ; but towards night the weather cleared up, 

• the wind was quite over, and a charming fine evening 

followed^ the iun went down perfedtly dear, and rofe 

£a the next morning ; and having little or no wind, and 

a (mooth fea, the fun fhining upon it, the fight was, as 

I thoug]it> the moil delightful that ever I faw. 

I had ilept well in the night, and was no more 
/ea-fick, but very chearful ; looking with wonder upon 
the fea, that was fb rough and terrible the day before, 
and could be ki calm and fo pleafant in fo little a time 
after. And now, led my good refolutions ihould conti* 
nue, my companion, who had indeed inticed me away, 
comes to me, well. Bob, fays he, dapping me upon the 
fhoulder, how do you do after it? I warrant you were ' 
frighted, were not you, lafl night, when it blew but a 
cap full of wind ? A cap full do you call it ? faid I, 'twas a 
terrible florm. A florm, you fool youl replies he. Do 
you call that a ftorm ? why it was nothing at all ; give 
us but a good ihip, and fea-room, and we think nothing 
of fuch a fquall of wind as that ; but you are but a frefh 
water failor, fiob : come, let us make a bowl of punch, 
and we'll forget all that, do you fee what charming wea- 
ther it is now ? To make fhort this fad p^rt of my ftory, 
we went the way of all Tailors, the punch was made, and 
I was made half drunk with it, and in that one night's 
wickednefs 1 drowned all my repentance, all my re- 
flexions upon my paft conduct, all my refolutions for 
the future. In a word, as the fea was returned to its 
fmoothnefs of furface, and fettled calmnefs, b/'^thei 
abatement of that ilprm, fo the hurry of my thoughts" > 
being over> my fears and^appreheniions of being, (wal- 
lowed up by the fea being ibrgotten, and the current 
of my former defires returrfed, I entirely forgot the vows 
and promifes that 1 made in my diflrefs. I found in- 
deed fome intervals of refleftion, and the (erious thoughts 
did, as it were, endeavour to return again fomstimes ; 
but I (hook them off, and roufed myfelf from them, 
A6 



1% ADVENTURES OP 

it were from a diftemper; and applying myfelf to drinks 
ing and company, foon maftered the return of thofe fits 
(for fo I called them) and I had, in five or fix days, 
got as complete a vidory over my confcience, as any 
young fellow that refolved not to be troubled wi^h it, 
could defire. But I was to have another trial for if ftill ;r 
and Providence, as in fuch caibs generally it does, refol- 
ved to leave me entirely without excufe ; for if I would 
not take this for a deliverance, the next was to be fuch an 
one, as the word and mod hardened wretch among us 
would confefs both the danger and the mbrcy. 

The fixth day of our being at fea, we came into Yar- 
mouth roads ; the wind having been contrary, and the 
weather calm, we h«;d made but little way ilnce the 
Ibrm. Here we were obliged to come to an anchor, 
and here we lay, the wind continuing contrary, viz. 
at fouth-weft, for feVfen or eight days ; during whiclv r 
time, a great many ihips from Newcaftle came into the 
iTime roads, as the common harbour where the fhips 
might wait for a wind for the river. 

We had not however rid here fo long but we fhould have 
tided it up the river, but that the wind blew too frefti.; 
a Ad, after we had Iain four or five days, blew very hard, 
I-Iowever, the roads being reckoned as good as an harbour^ 
the anchorage good, and our ground tackle very ftrong, 
our men were unconcerned, and not in the leaft apprehen- 
five of danger ; but fpent the time in reft and mirth, ' 
after the manner of the fea, but ,the eighth day in the 
morning, the wind encreafed, and we had all hands at 
work toftrike cur topr-mafts, and make every thing fnug 
and clofe that the fhip might ride as eafy as poiRble. By 
nqon the fea went very high indeed, and our fhip rid 
ibrecaille in, fhipped feveral feas, and we thought once or 
twice our anchor had come home, upon which our mafter 
ordered out the flieet anchor ; fo that we rode with two 
anchors-a head, and thecables veered out lo the better end. 

By this time it blew a terrible ftorm indeed ; and, now 
I began to fee terror and amazement in the faces even 
rf the feamen themfelves. The mafter, though vigilant in 
ihc bufsnels of preferving the ftiip, yet as he went in and 
(;ur ofliis cabin by me, 1 could hear him, foftly to him- 
ie!f> lay feveral times. Lord be merciful lo us ; we ihail bv 
- • all 



ROBINSON € R tr S O E. rj; 

all loft, we (hall be all undone ; and the like. During 
thcfe firft hurries, I. was ftupid, lying ftiil in my cabin, 
which was in the fteerage, and cannot defcribc my tern- 
per. I could ill refume the firfl penitence which I had fa 
apparently trampled upon, and hardened my fclfagainft: 
I thought the bitterhefs of death had been paft, and 
that this would be nothing too, like the firft. But when 
the matter himfelf came by me, as I faid juft now, and 
faid we ftiould be all loft, I was dreadfully frighted : I 
got up out of my cabin, and looked out ; but fuch a dif- 
Hial fight I never faw ; the fea went mountains high, and 
broke upon us every three or four minutes : when I could 
look about, I could fee nothing but diftrefs round us ^ 
two ihips that rid near us, we found, had cut their mafts 
by the board, being deep loaden ; and our men cried 
out, that a (hip which rid about a mile ahead of us, was 
^/oundcred. Two more fhips, being driven from their an- 
chors, were run oat of the roads to fea, at all adven-^ 
tures, and that not with a maft ftanding. The light fhips 
fared the beft, as not fo much labouring in the fea, but 
two or three of them drove, and came cloie by us, run- 
ning away with only their (prit-fail out, before the wind. 
Towards the evening, the mate and boatfwain begged 
the mafter of our (hip to let them cut away the fore- 
maft, which he was very onwilling to do ; but theboat« 
fwain protefting to him, that if he did not, the fliip 
would founder, he confentcd : and when they had cut 
away the fore-maft, the main -maft Rood fo loofe, and 
Ihook the ftiip fo much, they were obliged to cut her 
away alfo, and make a clear deck. 

Any one muft judge what a condition I muft be in at 
all this, who was but a young failor, and who had been 
in fuch a fright before at but a little. But if I can exprefs 
atthis diftance the thoughts 1 had about me at that time, 
I was in tenfold more horror of mind upon account of 
my former convi^ions, and the having returned from 
them to the refolutions I had wickedly taken at firft, than 
I was at' death itfcff; and thefe; added to the terror of 
the ftorm, put me into fuch a condition, that I can by 
iio' words defcribe it. But the worft was nor come yet ; 
the ftorm continued with fuch fury,' that the ieamen 
ihemielv€S acknowledged they had never feen a worfe. 

We 



ADVENTURES OF ^ 
had a good ihip, bat ihe was deep loadeii> and wal^^ 
;d in the Tea, that the feamen every now and then 
i out, ihe would founder. It was my advantage in one 
:ft, that I did not know what they meant by founder^ 
'. enquired. However, the ftorm was fo violent, that 
V what is not often feen, the mailer, the boatfwain, 
ibme others, more feniible than the reft, at their 
'ers, and expedling'every moment that, the ihip would 

the bottom. In the middle of the night, and un« 
all the reil of our didrefTes, one of the men that had 

1 down on purpofe to fee, cried out we had fprung a 
; another ikid, there was four feet water in the 

:. Then all hands were called to the pump. At that 
' word, my heart, as I thought, died within me ; and 
11 backwards upon the fide of my' bed where I fat, 
the cabin. However, the men roufed me, and told 
that I that was able to do nothing before, was as well 
: to pump as another ; at which I iljrred up, and went 
ie pump, and worked very heartily. While this was- 
ig, the mailer feeing fome light colliers, who, not abler 
ide out the ilorm, were obliged to ilipand run away^ 
he fea,^nd would come giear us, ordered to fire a gua 
iignal of diftrefs. I, who knew nothing what they 
nt,* was fo furprifed, that I thought the ihip had 
:e, or fome dreadful thing happened. In a word, I 
fo furprifed, that I fell down in a fwoon. As this ^yas 
me when every body had his own life to think ofj. 
ody minded me, or^ what was become of me; but 
:her man ilept up to thef pump, and, thruiling me 
e with his fcot, let me lie, thinking I had been dead;, 
it was a great while before I came to myfelf. 
/e worked on, but the water increaiing in the hold,- 
as apparent, that the ihip would founder ; and tho' 
Horm began to abate a little, yet as it was not pof- 
; ihe could fwim till we might run into any port, Co 
mailer continued firing guns for help ; and a light 
, who had rid it out juil a head of us, ventured a. 
: out to help us. It was with the utmoil hazard 
boat came near us ; but it was impoifible for, us to^ 
on board, or for the boat to lie near the ihip's iide,. 
at laft the men rowing very heartily, and venturing 
r Jives- to fave ours, oar men call them a rope over 

the 



f > 



,g^/^^ ADVENTURES OF 
even the comman(is, of my father : I fay, the fame iii- 
fluence, whatever it was, prefented the moft unfortunate 
N of all enterprifes to my view ; and I went on board a 
vefTel bound to the coafl of Africa, or, as our failorl 
vulgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea. 

It was^niy great misfortune, that in all tliefe adven- 
tures I did not (hip myfelf as a failor ; whereby though I 
might indeed have worked a little harder than ordinary, 
yet at the fame time I had learned the duty a'hd office of 
a fbremailman ; and in time might have qualiie^ myfelf 
.for a mate or lieutenant, if not for a mafter. But as it 
was always my fate to chufe for the worfe, fo I did 
here ; for having money in my pocket, and good clothes" 
on my back, I would always go on- board in the habit 
of a gentleman ; and fo I neither had any bufinefs in< 
the fhip, nor learned co do any. 

It was my lot firft of all to fall into pretty good conr* 
pany in London, which does not always happen to* (uchi 
loofe and unguided young fellows as I then was -^ the de- 
vil generally not omitting to lay (bmefnare foir them very 
early ; but it was not fo with me : I fii^fell acquainted 
with the mailer of a fhip who had beea on the coaft of 
Guinea, and who, having had very good fuccefs there*. 
was refolved to go again ; this captatn,. taking a fancy 
to my converfation, which was not difagreeable at that 
time, . hearing me fay I had a xrand to fee the worlds 
told me, if I would go the voyage with him, I fhould be 
at no expence ; I fhould be his mefFmate, and his com* 
panion; and if I could carry any thing with me, I fhould 
have all the advantage of k that the trade would admit ;^ 
and perhaps I might meet with fome encouragement. 

I embraced the offer, and^ entering into a Urid friend- 
fhip with this captain, who was an honefl plain dealing^ 
man, went the voyage with him, and carried a fmall 
adventure with me, which, by the diflnterefted honefty of 
my friend, the captain, I increafed very confiierably ; 
for I carried about 40I. in fuch toys and trifles as the 
captain directed me to buy. This 40I. I had muflered 
together by the afliflance of fome of my relations, whom. 
I correfponded with, and who, I believe, got my father^ 
or at leail, my mother^ to contribute fi) much as that, ta 
my iril adventtiret 

Thla 



ROBINSON CRtrSOE. s^ 

This was the only voyage which I may fay was fuc- 
Ccfsful in all my adventures, and which 1 owe to the in- 
tegrity and honefty of my friend, the captain ; under 
whom I got a competent knowledge of the mathematics, 
and the rules of navigation ; learned how to keep an 
account of the fhip's courfe. take an obfervation> and 
ia fhort, to underftand fome things that were needful to 
be underflood by a failor ; for^ as he took delight to 
introduce me, I took delight to learn ; and, in a word, 
this voyage made me both a failor and a merchant for 
1 brought home five pounds nine ounces of gold-duft for 
my adventure, which yielded me in London, at my rc- 

£rn, almoil 300I. and this filled me with thofe afpiring 
oughts which have iince fo compleated my ruin. 
Yet, even i:i this voyaee, I had misfortunes too ; 
particularly that I was continually fick, being thrown 
into a violent calenture by the exctifive heat of the cli- 
mate ; our principal trading being upon the coaft, from 
the lat. of 15 degrees N. even to the line itfelf. 

I was now fet up for a Guinea trader ; and my friend, 
to my great misfortune, dying foon after his arrival, I 
refolved to go the fame voyage again ; and I embarked 
in the fame vefTel with one who'^ was his mate in the 
former voyage, and had now got the command of the 
ftiip This was the unhappieft voyage that ever man 
made; for though I did not carry quite lool. of my 
new gained wealth, fo that I had 200I. left, and which 
I lodged with my friend's widow, who was very juft to 
me, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes in this voyage ; 
and the firflwas this ; viz. Our (hip, making her courfe 
towards the Canary iilands, or rather between thofe 
iflands and the African ihore, was furprifed in the grey 
of the morning by a Moorilh rover of Sallee, who gave 
chace to us with all the fail (he could make. W© 
crouded alfo as much canvas as our yards would fpread, 
or our mafts carry, to have got clear; but finding the 
pirate gained upon us, and would certainly come up> 
with us in a few hours, we prepared to 6ght ; our ihip> 
having twelve guns and the rover eighteen. About 
three in the afternoon he came up with us, and, bring- 
ing to, by miftake, juil athwart our quarter, inftead of 
athwart our item, as he intended, we brought eight o£ 



10 ADVENTURED OP 

our guns to bear on that fide, and poured in a broaditde 
upon him, which made him Iheer off again, after return- 
ing our fire, and pouring in alfo hisfmall fliot from near 
200 men which he had on board. However, we had 
not a man touched, all our men keeping clofe : he pre- 
pared to attack us again, and we todefend ourfelves ; but, 
lading us on board the next time upon our other quarter,- 
he entered 90 men upon our decks, who immediately fell 
to cutting and hacking the decks and rigging.- We plitd 
them with fmall ftiot, half pikes, powder chefts, and 
fuch like, and cleared our deck of them twice. How- 
ever, to cut ftiort this melancholy part of our ftory, our 
fiiip being difabled, and three ofour men killed and eight 
wounded, we were obliged to yield; and were carried all 
prifoners to Sallee, a port belonging to the Moors. 

The ufage I had there was not fo dreadful as at firfl I 
apprehended ; nor was I carried up the country, to the 
emperor's court, as the reft of our men were, but was 
kept by the captain of the rover, as his proper prize, 
and made his flavc, being young and nimWe, and fit for 
his bufinefs. At this furprifing change of my circum- 
fiances, from a merchant to a mifcrable flave, I was 
perfcftly overwhelmed? and now I looked back upon my 
father's prophetic difcourfe to me, that I (hould be mife- 
rable, and have none to relieve me ; which I thought was 
now fo effedlually brought to pafs, that I could not b«b 
vtmr&i that now the hand of Heaven had overtaken me, 
and 1 was undone without redemptior.. But alas! this 
was but a tafte of the mifery Fwas to go through, as will 
appear in the fequel of this ftory. 

As my new patron or mafter had taken me home to 
his houf^, fo I was in hopes, that he would take me with 
him when he went to fea againi believing that it would 
be fome time or other his fate to be taken by a Spanilh or 
Portugal man of war, and that then I ftipuld be fet at li- 
berty. But this, hope of mine was foon taken away ; for 
when he went to fea, he left me on Ihore to look after 
his little garden, and do the drudgery of Haves about his 
houfe J and when he came home again from his cruize., 
he ordered me to lie in the cabin, to look after the ftiip. 

Here I meditated nothing but my efcape, and what 
method I might take to effed it s but fouad no way that 

had 



ROBINSON CRUS6E. %t 

^ad the leaft probability in it ; nothing prefented to make 
the fuppofition of it rational ; for I had nobody to com- 
4:nunicate it to, that would embark with me, no fellow 
{lave, no Engliihman, Iriftiman, or Scotfman there, but 
myfelf ; fo that for two years, though I often pleafed my- 
self with the imagination, yet I never had the leaft en- 
couraging profpedl of putting it in praftice. 

After about two years, an odd circumftance prefented 
itfelf, which put the old thoughts of making fome ai- 
tcmpt for my liberty again in my head : my patron ly- 
ing at home longer than ufual, without fitting out his 
ihip, which, as I heard, was for want of money, he ufed 
xonftantly once or twice a week, (bmetimes oftener, if the 
weather was fair, to take the ihip's pinnace, and go out 
into the road a fiihing; ^nd as he always took me and 
a young Marefco with him to row the boat, we made him 
•very meri-y, and I proved very dextrous in catching fifh ; 
infomuck, that fometimes he would fend me with a Moor, 
ione of his kinfmen, and the youth the Marefco, as they 
^alJed him, to catch a difh of iilh for him. 

It happened one time, that going a fifhing with him in 

'A calm morning, a fog rofe fo thick, that though we were 

not half 'a league from the fhore, we loft fight of it ; 

-and, rowing we knew not wither, or which way, we 

laboured all day* and all the next night ; and when the 

jnorning came, we found we had pulled off to fea, in- 

, ftead of pulHng in for the fhore ; and that we were at 

leaft two leagires from the land : however, we got well 

in again, though with a great deal of labour, and ISime > 

danger ; for the wind began to blow pretty frefti in the 

morning; but particularly we were, all very hungry. 

But our patron ,warned by this difafter,reroIved to take 
niorc care of himfelf for the future ; and having lying by 
him the long-boat of our Englifh fhip whichhe had taken, 
4ie refolved he would not go a fifhing any more without a 
compafs and fome provifion ; fo he ordered the carpenter 
of his fhip, who alfo was an Engiifh flave, to build a lit- 
tle ftate-room or cabin in the middle of the long- boat, 
like that of a barge, with a place to ftand behind it to 
fteer, and haul home the main (heet ; and room before 
for an hand or two to ftand and work the fails . She 
^iled with what we call a ftioulder of ra\i«a\^.<•ail^ ^x^A 



M ADVENTURES OP 

^e boom jibbed over the top of the cabin, which lay 
very fnug and low, and had in it room for him to lie, with 
a flave or two, and a table to eat on» with fome fmall 
lockers to put iafome bottles of fuch liquor as he thought 
&l to drink ; particularly his bread* rice, and coffee. 

We were frequently out with this boat a fifhing, and 
as I was moA dextrous to catch fifh for him, he never 
went without me. It happened one day, that he had 
appdnted to go out in this boat, either for pleafnre or 
for fi(h, with two or three Moors of fome dilHndiony 
and for whom he had provided extraordinarily; and had 
therefore fent on board the boat over night a larger ftore 
of provifions than uiual ; and had ordered me to get 
ready three' fufils with powder and fhot, which were on 
board his Ihip ; for that they defigned (bme iport of 
fewling as well as fiihing* 

I got all things ready as he had dire£led ; and waited 
the next morning with the boat wafhed clean> her an- 
cients and pendants out, and every thing to accommodate 
his guefls ; when by and bye my patron came on board 
alone, and told me his gueils had put off goiug, upon 
fome bufinefs that fell out ; and ordered me, with the 
man and boy, as ufual, to go out with the boat, and 
catch them fome fifh, for that his friends Were to fup at 
his houfe ; he commanded me too, that as foon as I had 
got fome fifh, I fhould bring it home to his houfe : all 
which I prepared to do. 

This moment my former notions of deliverance darted 
into my thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a 
little (hip at my command; and my mafter being gone, 
I prepared to furniih myfelf, not for fifhing buihiefs. but 
for a voyage ; though I knew not, neither did I ib much 
as coniider, whither i would fteer ; for, any where to 
get out of that place was my way. 

My firit contrivance was to make a pretence to fpeak 
to this Moor, to get fomething for our lubfiftence on 
board ; for I told him we muil not prefume to eat of our 
patron's bread ; he faid, that was true ; fo he brought a 
large bafketof ru(k, or bifcuit of their kind, and three 
jars with freih water, into the boat : I knew where my 
patron's cafe of bottles ftood, which it was evident by the 
rnake^ were taken out of fome Englifh prize> and I con- 
veyed 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. %^ 

ireyed them into the boat while the Moor was on fhore» 
as if they had been there before, for our mailer : I con* 
-veyed alfo a great lump of bees- wax into the boat, which 
v^eighed about half an hundred weight, with a parcel of 
twine or thread, a hatchet, a faw, and a hammer, 
all which were of great nfe to as afterwards ; efpecially 
the wax to make candles. Another trick I tried upon 
him, which helhnocently came into alfo : his name was 
Ifmael, whom they call Muley, or Moloy ; fo I called to 
him, Moloy, faid I, our patron's guns are all on board 
the boat, can you not get a little powder and fhot ? it 
may be we may kill iome aleamies (a fowl like our cur- 
lews) for ourfelves; for I know he keeps the gunner's 
Itercs in the (hip. Yes, fays he. Til bring fome ; accord- 
ingly he brought a great leather pouch, which held about 
a pound and a half of powder, or rather more ; and 
another with (hot, that had five or (ix pounds, with (bme 
bullets, and put all into the boat ; at the fame time I 
had found fome powder of my mailer's, in the great 
cabin, with which I filled one of the large bottles in the 
cafe, which was almofl empty ; pouring what was in it 
into another : and thus furnifhpd with every thing need* 
fid, we failed out of the port to fiih. The cadle, which 
was at the entrance of the port, knew who we were, and 
took no notice of us, and we were not above a mile out 
ef the port, before we hauled in our fail, and fat us down 
to fiih The wind blew from the N. N. E. which was 
contrary to my defire ; for had it blown foutherly, I had 
been fure to have made the coail of Spain, and at leall 
reached to the bay of Cadiz ; but my refolutions were, 
blow which way it would, I would be gone from that 
horrid place wfiere 1 was, and leave the reH to fate. 

After we had fiihed fome time, and catched nothing 
((or when I had fiih on my hook, I would not pull them 
up, that he might not fee them) I faid to.the Moor, 
This will not do, our mailer will not be thusferved; 
we muft (land farther ofiT: he, thinking no harm, agreed : 
and being in the head of the boat, fet the fails; and as I 
had the helm, I ran the boat out near a league farther, 
and then brought her to, as if I would fiih ; when, giv- 
ing the boy the helm, 1 ftept forward to where the Moor 
was; and» mtking as if I ftooped for &>mething behind 

him^ 



1^4- ADVENTURES OF 

'4iim, I took him by furprife with my arm und^r his twiA, 
and tofTed him clear over- board into the fea j .he rofe' 
immediately, for he fwam like a corkj and called to 
me> begged to be taken in, told me he would go all 
over the world with me : he fwam fo flrong after the 

' boat, that he would have reached me very quickly^ there 
being but little wind ; upon which I fiepped into the 
cabin, and fetching one of the fowli|g-pieces, I pre^ 
fented it at him, and told him, I had done him no hurt, 
and, if he would be quiet, I would do him none ; but, 
faid I, you fwim well enough to reach the fhore, and the 
lea is calm> make the beil of your way to the ihore> and 
1 will do you no harm; but if you come near the boat, I 
will fhoot you through the head ; for I am refolved to 
have my liberty. So he turned himfelf about, and fwam 
for the Ihore, and I make no doubt but he reached it with 
eafe, for he was an excellent fwimmer. 

I could have been content to have tak^n this Moor 
with me, and have drowned the boy, but there was no 
venturing to' truft him ; when he was gone, I turned to 
the boy, whom they called Xury, and faid tohim^ Xury, 
if you will be faithful to me, I will make you a great 

' man ; but if you will not ftroke your face to be true to 
me, that is, fwear by Mahomet, and his father's beard, 

II mull throw you into the fea too. The. boy fmiled in 

' my face, and fpoke fo innocently, that I could not mif- 
trufl him, and fwore to be faithful to me, and go all 
over the world with me. ' . . 

While I was in the view of the Moor that was fwim- 
ming, I flood out diredly to fea, with the boat rather 
llretching to windward, that they might think pie gone 
towards tne Screight-mouth (as indeed any one that had 
been in their wits muft have been iuppofed to do) foi 
who would have fuppofed we were failed onto the fouth- 
ward, to the truly Barbarian cpaft, where whole natioas 
of Negroes were fure to furround us with tlieir .(;anoe5, 
and deltroy us ; where we could hiever once goon (hore, 
but we (hoald be devoured by favage beaHs, or mor.e 
mercilefs favages of human kind ? 

But as foon as it grew dufk in the evenings I changed 
my courfe, and Heered direftly fouth and by eaft, bend- 
ing my courfe al Ulc towards the eaft, that I might 

keep 






' ROBINSON CRUSOE. %$ 

keep in v^ith the (hore ; and having a fair frefh gale of 
wind, and a fmooth quiet fea, I made iuch fail, that I 
believe by the next day at three o'clock in the afternoon, 
when J firft made the bnd, I could not be leis than 156 

. miles ibuth of Sallee, quite beyond the emperor of Mo* 
rocco's doniipions, or indeed of any other king there- 
abouts, for vye faw no people. 

Vet Iuch was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and 
the dreadful appreheniions 1 had of falling into their 
hands, that I would not ftop, or go on Ihore, or come 
to an anchor, the wind continuing fair; till I had fail'd 

. in that manner five days ; and then the wind ihifting 
to the fouthward, I concluded alio, that if any of our 
vefTels were in chace. of me, they alfo would now give 
over, fo 1 ventured to make to the coaft, an *] came to 
an anchor in the mouth of a little river, f knew not 
what ,or where, neither what latitude, whit country, 
what nation, or what river. I neither (aw, nor defired 
to fee, any people ; the principal thing I wanted was 

Ifrelh water. We came into this creek in the evening, 
refblving to fwim on fhore as foon as it was dark, and 
difcover the country ; but as fbon as it wa^ quite dark, 
we heard fuch dreadful noifes of the barking, roaring, 
and howling of wild creatures, of we knew not what 
kinds, that the poor boy was ready to die with fear, and 
begged of mc not to go on ftiore till day. Well, Xary, 
faid I, then I won't; but it may be we may fee men by 
day, who will be as bad to us as thofe lions ; Then we 
may gK'c them the (hoot gun, fays Xury, laughing, make 
them run away; fuch Englifti Xury fpoke by converfing 
• among us flaves. However, I was glad to fee the boy 
fo cheerful, and I gave him a dram out of 00!* patron's 
cafe of bottles, to cbear him up. After all, Xury's ad- 
vice was good, and I took it; we dropp'd our little 
a^ichor, and lay ilill all night ; I fay ftill, for we flept 
none ; for in two or three hours we faw vaft great crea- 
tures, we knew not what to call them, of many forts, 
come down to the fea (hore, and run into the water, wal- 
lowing and wafhihg themfelves, for the pleafure of cool- 
ing themfelves ; and they made fuch hideous bowlings 
and yellings, that 1 never indeed heard the like. 
Vol. ir B Xary 



a« ALD VENTURES OF 

Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed fo was I 
too: But we were both worfe frighted, when we heard 
one mighty creature come fwimming towards our boat ; 
we could not fee him, but we might hear him by his 
blowing* to be a monftrous, huge, and furious beaft ; 
Xury faid it was a lion, and it might be for ought I 
i knpw. Poor Xury cried out to me to weigh the anchor, 
and row, away. No, fays I, Xury, we can flip our 
cable with a buoy to it, and go to fea, they cannot fol- 
low us far. 1 had no fooner faid fo, but 1 perceived 
the creature, whatever it was, within two oars length, 
wloch fomething furprized me ; however, 1 immediate- 
ly Bcpt to the cabbin door, and taking up my gun, fired 
at him ; upon which he immediately turn'd abput, and 
iwam towards the fhore again. 

But it was not poflible to defcribe the horrible noifes, 
and hideous cries and bowlings that were raifed,,as 
well upon the edge of the fhore, as higher within the 
country, upon the noife or report of a gun, a thing 
I have fome reafon to believe thofe creatures had never 
heard before. This convinced me, that there was no 
going on fhore for us in the night, epon that coafl ; 
and how to venture on Ihore in the day, was another 
queilion too ; for to have fallen into the hands of any of 
the lavages, had been as bad as to have fallen into the 
paws of lions and tigers ; at leaft we were equally ap- 
prehenfivc of the danger of it. ^ 

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on fhore 
fomewhere or other for water, for we had not a pint 
left in the boat, when or where to get to it was the 
point.— Xury faid, if I would let him go on fhor^. with 
one of the jars, he would find, ^f there was any water, 
and bring fome to me. I afked him* why he would go ; 
why I fhquld not go, and he flay in the boat ? The boy 
anfwered with fo much affeftion, that made me love 
him ever after— Says he. If wild mans come, they eat 
me, you go way. Well, Xury, faid I, we will both go, 
and if the wild mans come, we will kill them, they 
ftiall eat neither of OS.— So I gave Xury a piece of rufk- 
bread to cat, and a dram out of our patron's cafe of 
bottles, which I mentioned beforCi and we haled the 
boat in as near the fhore as we thought was proper, 

and 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. %t 

and waded on ihorc, carrying nothing but our armSt and 
two jars for water. 

1 did not care to go out of fight of the boat, fearing 
the coming of the canoes with favages down the river : 
But the boy feeing a low place about a mile up the 
country, rambled to it ; and by and by 1 faw him come 
running towards me : I thought he was purfued by fome 
favage, or frighted by fome wild beaft, and I ran 
forward towards him, to help him ; but when I came 
nearer to him, I faw fomething hanging over his ihool- 
ders, which was a creature that he had (hot, like a hare, 
but different in colour, and longer legs ; however, we 
^tiQ very glad of it, and it was very good meat ; but the 

freat joy that poor Xury came with, was to.tell mehe 
ad found good water/ and had feen no wild mans. 
But we found afterwards, that we need not take fuch 
pains for water, for a little higher up the creek where 
we were, we found the water frefh when the tide was 
out, which flows but a little way up ; Co we filled our 
jars, and feafled on the hare we had killed, ai\d pre- 
pared to go on our way, having feen no footfteps of imy 
human creature in that part of the country. 

As I had been one voyage to this coall before, I knew 
very well, that the iflands of the Canaries, and the Cape 
de Verd iflands alfo, lay not far oiF from the coaft; but 

, ,as I had no inilruments to take an obfervation, to know 
what latitude we were in, and did not exadlly know, or At 
Jeaft not remember what latitude they were in, I knew 
not where to look for them, or when to (land off to fea 
towards them, otherwiie I might now eafily have fou|id 
fome of thefe iflands. But my hope was, that. if I flood 
along this coaft till I came to that part where the En- 
glifti traded, I ftiould find fome of their vefl'els upon their 
uiual defign of trade, that would relieve and take us in. 

By the beft of my calculation, that place whsre I now 
was, mull be that country which lying between the e^i- 
peror of Morocco's dominions and the negroes, lies 
wafte and uninhabited, except by wild beafts; the ne- 
groes haying abandoned it, and gone further fouth, for 
fear of the Moors; and the Moors not thinking it worth 

^ inhabiting, by reafon of its barrennefs; and indeed borli 
forfaking it l^ecaufe of the prodicious auaib^t^<i{ \.v^v 






IS A.D VENTURES OF 

lions, leopards, and other furious creatures, which har- 
bour there ; fo that the Moors ufe it for their hunting 
only, where they go like an army, two or three thoufand 
men at a time ; and indeed for near an hundred miles 
together upon this coaft, we faw nothing but a wafte 
oninhab^ted country by day, and heard nothing but 
bowlings and roarings of wild beafts by night. 

Once or twice in the day time, I thought I faw the 
Pico ot TenerifFe, being the high top of the mountain 
TenerifFe, in the Canaries; and had a great mind to 
venture out, in hopes of reaching thither; but having 
tried twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds, the 
fea aMb going too high for my little veiTel ; fo I refolved 
to purfue my firft dengn, and kept along the ihore. 

Several times we were obliged to land for freih wa- 
ter, after we had left this place ; and once in particular, 
being early in the morning, we came to an anchor un- 
der a little point of land, which was pretty high ; and 
the tide beginning' to flow, we lay ftill to go farther in, 
Xury, whofe eyes were more about him than it feems 
mine were, calls ibftly to me, and tells jne» that we had 
-beft go farther off the fiiore ; for, fays he, look yonder 
lies a dreadful monfter, on the fide of that hillock, faft 
afleep. I looked where he pointed, and faw a dreadful 
mOnfter indeed, for it was a terrible great lion, that lay 
on the iide of the (hore, under the (hade of a piece of 
the hill, that hung as it were a little over him. Xury, 
laid I, you fhall go on fhore and kill him : Xury looked 
. frighted, and faid. Me kill ! he cat me at one mouth, 
one mouthful he meant; however, I faid no more to the 
boy, but bade him be ftill, and took our biggeft gun, 
which was almoft mufket bore, and loaded it with a 
good charge of powder, and with two flugs, and laid 
It down; then I loaded another gun with two bullets, 
and the third (for we had three pieces) I loaded with 
five fmaller bullets. I took the beft aim I could with the 
firfk piece, to have (hot him in the head ; but he lay fo, 
with his leg raifed a little above his nofe, that the Aug 
hit his leg, ab9ut the knee, ^ud broke the bone. He 
ftarted up, growling at firft; but finding his leg broke, 
fell down again, and then got up upon three legs, and> 
Mve the moUt J^ideous roar that i ever heard. 1 was a 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 19 

littl^ {urprifed that I had ifot hit him on the head ; how« 
ever, I took up the fecond piece immediately, and iho* 
he began to move off, fired again, and fhot him into the 
head, and had the pleafure to fee him drop, and making 
but little noife, he lay ilruggliag for life. Then Xury 
took heart, and would have me let him go on (hore : 
Well, go, faid I; fo the boy jump'd into the water, and 
taking the little gun in one hand, fwam to the fhorc 
with the other hand ; and coming clofc to the creature, 
put the muzzle of the piece to his ear, and fhot him into 
the head again, which difpatchM him quite. 

This was game indeed to us, but this was no food ; 
and J was very f )rry to lofe three chargei of powder and 
/hot, upon a creature that wai^eood for noching to us.^- 
Howcver, Xury faid he would have fome of him ; fo he 
cumjs on board, and aflted me to give him the hatchet. 
For what, Xury, faid I. Me cut oft his head, faid he.— 
However, Xary could not 'cut off his head, but he-cut off 
a toot, and bro4gh: it with him, and ic was a moaftroas 
great one. 

I bethought myfelf hoA^ever, that perhaps the fkin of 
him might one way cr other be of lome value to us ; 
and I refolveJ to take off his (kin, if I could. So Xury 
and I went to work with him ; but Xury was much the 
better workman at it, for 1 knew very ill how to do it. 
Indeed, it took us up, both, the whole day ; but at laft 
we got off ths hide of him, and fpreading it on the top 
of our cnbin, the fun efFcdually dried it in two days 
time, and it afterwa;ds ferved me to lie upon. 

After this ftop we made on to the fouthward continu- 
ally f jr ten or twelve days, living very fparingly on cur 
provifums, which began to abate very much, and go'ng 
no oftener into the fhore than we were obliged to, for 
frc(h water. My defigi in this was to make the river 
Gambia or Senegal v'tirit is to fay, any where about the 
Cape de Verd, where I vyas in hopes to meet with fome , 
European fhip ; an4 if 1 did not, I knew not what 
courfe I had to take, but to feck for the Iflands, or pe- 
riih there among tlie negroes. I knew that all the (hips 
from Europe, which faii'd either to the coaft of Guinea, 
or to Brafil, or to the Eafl-Indies, made this cap1^> ox 
Xkok iflands ; aad« in A word, I pat the whole of my 
B 3 fortune 



%o ADVENTURES OF 

fortune upon this fingle point, cither that I muft mectr 
with fome fhip, or mall pcrilh. 

When I had purfued this refolution about ten day^ 
longer, as I faid, I began to fee that the land was in- 
habited; and in two or three places, as we failed by, 
we faw people ftand upon the fhore to look at us ; we 
could alfo perceive they were quite black, and ftark na- 
ked. I was once inclined to have gone on fhore to them ; 
but Xury was my better counfellor, and faid to me. No 
go, no go. However, I haled in nearer the fhore, that I 
might talk to them, and I found they ran along the fhore 
by me a good fvay. I obferved they had no weapons in 
their hands, ei^ept one, who had a long flender ftick, 
which Xury faid was a lance, and that they could throw 
them a great way with good aim ; fo I kept at a dif- 
tance, but talked with them by figns as well as I could, 
and particularly made figns for fomething to eat. They 
beckoned to me to ftop my boat, and they would fetch 
ine fome meat. Upon this I lowered the top of my fail, 
and lay by; and two of them ran up into the country, 
and in lefs than half an hour came back, and 'brought 
' Htth them two pieces of dried flelh, and fome corn, fuch 
as is the produce of their country ; but we neither knew 
what the one or the other was; however, we were will- 
ing to accept it. Bat how to come at it was our next 
difpute, for I was not for venturing on fliore to them, and 
they were as much afraid of us ; but they took a fafe way 
for us all ; for they brought it to the fhore, and laid it 
dov/n, and went and Hood a great way off, till we fetch- 
ed it on board, and then carhe clofe to us again. 

We made figns of thanks to them, for we had no- 
thing to make them amends ; but an opportunity offer- 
ed that very inflant to oblige them wonderfully ; for 
while we were lying by the fhore, came two mighty 
creatures, one purfuing the other, as we took it, with 
great fury, from the mountains towards the fea ; whe- 
ther it was the male purfuing the female, or whether 
they were in fport, or in rage, we could not tefl, an^ 
more than we could tell whether it was ufual or flrange, 
but I believe it was the latter, becaufe, in the firft place, 
thofe ravenous creatures feldom appear but in the 
nighty and, in the fccond place, we found th^ people 
• ' terribly 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 31 

iMTibly afFrighted, efpecially the women. The man that 
had the lance or dart did not fly from them, but the 
reil did ; however, as the two creatures ran diredly into 
the water, they did not feem to offer to fall upon the ne- 
groes, but plunged themfelves into the fea, and fwam 
about as if they had come for their diverfion ; at iaflone 
of them began to come nearer our boat than I firil ex« 
pe6led ^ but I lay ready for him ; fOr I had loaded my 
gun with all poillble expedition, and bid Xury load both 
the others. As foon as he came fairly within my reach, I 
£red, and (hot him diredly into the head: immediately 
he funk down into the water, but rofe inflantly, and plung« 
ed up and down as if firuggling for life ; and fo indeed he 
was; he immediately made to the (hore;, but between 
the wound, which was his mortal hurt, and the ilrang- 
}ing of the water, he died jull before he reached fhoj:e. 
It is impoflible to exprefs the'aflonifhment of thefe 
poor creatures at the noife and fire of my gun ; fome of 
them were ready even to die with fear, and fell down 
as dead with the very terror. But when ihey faw thcjp, 
creature dead, and funk into the water, and that I ma^X 
figns t ) them to corns to the fhore, they took heart, 
and came to the fhore, and began to fearch forthe«rea- 
tuhe. I fou^d him by his blood llaining the Jj&ter, an4 
by the help of a rope, which I flung .roifnd-wiim, and 
gave the negroes to hale, they dragged him on fhore, 
and found that it was a moil curious leopard, fpotted 
and fine to an admirable d«gree ; and the negroes held 
up rheir hands with admiration, to ihii k wkit it was I 
killed him with. 

The other creature, frighted with the flafh offire, 
and the noife of the gun, fwam to the fhore, and ran 
up diredlly to the mountains from which they came, 
nor could I, at that diflance, know what it was. I fourrd 
quickly the negroes were for eating the fleOi of this 
creature ; fo I was willing to have them take it as a 
favor from me, which, when I made figns to them, 
that they might take it, they were very thankful for. 
Immediately they fell to work with him ; and the' they 
had no knife, yet, with a fharpened piece of wood,, they 
took off his fkin as readily, nay much more readily than ^ 
we would have done with a knife ; they offered me Q^^ ' 



1 



3* ADVENTURE80P 

of the flclh, which I declined, making as if I would 
give it them ; bat made figns for the Ikin, which they, 
gave me very freely, and brought me a great deal more 
of their provifioh, which, tho' I did not underftand, yet 
I accepted. Then I made figns to them for fome wa- 
ter, and held out one of my jars to them, turning its 
bottom upward, to fhew that it was empty, and that I 
wanted to have it filled. They called immediately to 
fome of their frienis, and there came two women, and 
brought a great vefTel made of earth, and burnt, as Ifup- 
pofe, ill the fart ; this they fet down for me, as before, 
and I fent Xury on fhore with my jars, and filled them 
all three. The women were a*flark naked as the men. « 

I was now furniihed with roots and cum, fuch as it 
was, and water; and leaving my friendly negroes, I 
made forward for about eleven days more, without of« 
fering to go near the (bore, till I faw the land run out 
a great length into the fea, at about the diltance of four 
or five leagues before me ; and the fea being very calm, 
I kept a large offing to make this point ; at length, 
doubling the point, at about two leagues from the land, 
1 faw plainly land on the othe fide, to fea -wards 5 then 
I concladed,-as it was moll certain indeed, that this was 
the Cape de Verd, and thofe the ifland . called from 
thence. Cape de Verd iflands. However, they were at 
- ft great diftance, and Icowld not well tell what I had beft 
to do; for if I lliould be taken with a frefh gale of wind, 
I might neither reach one nor the other. 

In this dilemma, as I was very penfi'/e, I llept into 
the cabin, and fet me down, Xury having the helm ; 
when on a fudden the boy cried out, Mafler, mafler, a 
ihip ivas a fail ! and the foolifh boy was frighted out of 
his wits, thinking it raufl needs be fome of his mailer's 
fhips fent to purfue us; when I knew we were gotten far 
enough out of their reach. I jumped out of the cabin, 
and immediately faw, not only the fhip, but what Ihewas, 
vias. that it was a Portuguefe fhip, and as I thought, was 
bound to the coaft of Guinea for negroes. But when I ob- 
ferved the courfe Ihe fleered, I was fgon convinced they 
were bound fome other way, and did not defign to go 
any nearer the fhore ; ^pon which I llretched out to fea ar 
much as {could, reviving to fpeak with them if polFible. 

With 



With all the fail I could make, I found I ftiould not 
be able to come in their way, but that they would he 
gone by before I could make any fignal to them ; but 
after I had crouded to the utraoft, and began to defpair^ 
they, it fecms. Jaw me by the help of their perfpe&lve- 
glaifes, and that it was fome European boat« whu:h the/ 
fuppofed mull belong to fome ihip that was loft ; fo thev 
fliortened fail to let me come up. I was encouraged Vita 
this, and as I had my jpatron's enfign on board, I made 
a waft of it to them> for a fignal of diftrefs, and fired a 
gun, both of which they faw; for they told me they faw 
&e fmoke, tho' they did not hear the gun ; upon thefe 
%nais they very kindly brought to, and la^ by forinct 
and in about three hours time I came up with them. 

They aiked me what I was, in Portuguefe, in Spanilh^ 
and in French, but I underAood none of them ; but at 
laft a Soots iailor, who was on bourd, called to me, and 
I anfwered him, and told him T was an Englifhrnan, that 
had made my efcape out of flavery from the Moors, at 
Sallee ; then they bud roe come on board, and very kind« 
ly took me in, and all my goods. 

It was an inexpreflible joy to me, any (;^e will be- 
lieve, that I was thus delivered, as I efteemed it, fi^om 
fuch a miferable and almoft hopelefs condition as I was 
in ; I immediately offered all I had to the captain of the 
&ip, as a return for m^ deliverance ; but he generoufly 
lid me, he would take nothing from me, but that all I 

d ihould be delivered fafe to me when I came to the 
__jifiJs; For, fays he, I have faved year life on no other 
terms, than as I would be glad to be faved myfelf, and 
it may one time or other be my lot to be taken up in the 
(ame condition ; befides, when I carry you to the Braiils, {o 
great away from your own country, if I (hould^ke from 
you what little you have, yoit will be ftarved there, and 
then I only take away that life I have given. No, no, 
Signior Inglefe (Mr.Englifhman) I would carry you thi« 
iher in charity; and thefe things will help you to buy 
your fubfiftence there, and your pafiage home again. 

As he was charitable in this propolal, fo he was juft in 

the performance to a tittle ; for he ordered the feamen, 

that none (hould offer to touch any thing I had ; then he 

took every thing into his own pofiefilon, and gave me 

B s back 



i 



34 ADVENTURES OP 

back an cxaft inventory of them, that I might Jiax^^ 
them again, even To much as my three earthqn jars. 

As to my boat it was a very good one, and that he; 
faw, and told me he would buy it of me for the fhipV 
ufe, and afked me what I would have for it. I told him 
he had been fo generous to me in every thing, that I 
could not offer to make any price of the boat, but left it 
entirely to him ; upon which he told me he would give 
me a note of his hand to pay me 80 pieces of eight for it 
^t Braiil ; and when it came there, if any one offered to 
give more, he would make it up. He offered me alfo 60 
pieces of eight more for my boy Xury, which I was loath 
toWke ; not that I was unwilling to let the captain have 
him, but I was very loath to fell the poor boy's liberty; 
who had affifled me fo faithfully in procuring my own. 
However, when I let him know my reafon, he own'd it 
tobejuft, and offered me this medium, that he would 
give the boy an obligation to fet him free in ten years, 
if he turned Chriftian. Upon this, and Xury faying he 
Was willing to go to him, I let the captain have him. 

We had a very good voyage to the Brafils, and arrived 
in the bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints Bay, in 
about 22 days after. And now I was once more delivered 
from the moll miferable of all condition of life; and 
what to do next with myfelf I was to confider. 

The generous treatment th^ captain gave me I can 



Jiever fufficiently remember; he would take nothing of A 
me for my paffage, gave me 20 ducats for the leopard '^'p 
ikin, and 40 for the lion's fkin, which I had in the boat ; * 



and caufed every thing I had in the Ihip to be pun^ual- 
ly delivered me ; and what I was willing to fell he 
bought; fuch as the cafe of bottles, twaof my guns, and 
a piece of the lump of bees-wax, for I had made ca^idle* 
of the reft; in a word, I made about 230 pieces of 
eight of -all my cargo, and with this flock I went on 
fliore in the Braftls. 

I had not been long here, but being lecommended to 
the houfe of a good honeft man like himfelf, who had an 
ingenio, as they call it, that is, a plantation, and a fu- 
gar-houfe, I lived with him fome time ; and acquainted 
myklf, by that means, with the manner of their plant- 
i/^ sad making fugar ; and feeing how well the plant «i 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. S5 

ers lived, and how they grew rich fuddenly, I refolvcd. 
if I could get a licence lo fettle there, I would turn 
planter among them ; refciving, in the mean time, to ^ 
find out fome way to j.e: mv money which I h^d left in 
London, remitted to me. l i- purpoe, getting a kind 
of a letter of natural izaa.), 1 purcaafed as much land 
that was uncured, as my money vvoaid reach; and formed 
apian tor my plantation an i fettlement, and fuch an one 
as might be fuitable to nhe ftock which I propofed to 
myfelf to receive from England. 

1 had a neighbour, i- Poriuguefe of Lilbon, but born 
^f Englilh parents, whofe name was Wells, and in muck 
fuch circum/lances as I was. I call him neighbouj||)be« 
caufe his platation lay next to mine ; and we went on 
very ibciably together ; my Hock was but low, as well 
as his ; and we rather planted for food than any thing 
elfe, for about two years. However we began toincreafe, 
and our land began to come into order ; fo that the 
third year we planted fome tobacco, and made each of 
us a large piece of ground ready for planting canes ia 
the year to come ; but we both wanted help ; and now 
I found more than before, 1 had done wrong in parting 
with my boy Xury. 

But, alas I for me to do wrong that never did right, 

was no great wonder; I had no remedy but to go on ; 

I was gotten into an employment quite remote to my 

:enius, and diredlly contrary to the life I delighted in^ 

nd for which I forfook my father's houfe, and brok^ 

iiro' all his good advice : Nay, 1 was coming into the 

very middle Nation, or upper degree of low life, which 

my father advifed me to before, and which if I reiblve4 

to go on with, I might as well have ftaid at home, and 

never fatigued myfelf in the world, as I have done; and 

I ufed often to fay to myfelf, I could have done this 

as well in England among my friends, as have gone 5000 

miles off, to do it among Grangers and lavages in a wiU 

demefs, and at fuch a diflance as never to hear from any 

part of the world, that had the leafk knowledge of me. ^ 

In this manner I ufed to look upbn my condition 

with the utmofl regret. I had nobody to converfe with 

but now and then this neighbour ; no work to be done 

bat by the labour of my hands ; and I ufed to fay, I lived 

B6 jull 



S« AbVENTtTAES Of 

juft like a man caft away upon fomc defolate ifland, th^ 
had nobody there but himfelf: But how juft has it been, 
and how fhould all men refled, that when they compare 
their prefent condition with others that are worfe, hea- 
ten may oblige them to make the exchange,and be con^ 
vincied of their former felicity, by their experience ! f 
faw how juft it has been, that the fruly foiitary life I re- 
lleded on in an ifland, or mere delolation^ fliQuld be 
my lot, who had fo often anjuftly compared it with the 
life which I then led, in which, had [ continued, I had, 
in all probability , been exceeding profperous and rich ! 

I was in fbme degree fettle4 i^i my meafures for ca'rry- 
ing on tBe plantation, before my kind friend the cap- 
tain of the fhip that took me up at fea, went back ; for 
the (hip remained there in providing her loading, and 
preparing for her voyage, near three months ; when 
' telling him what little Sock I had left behind the in 
London, he gave me this friendly and iincere advice S 
Signior Inglefe, fays he (for fo he always called inc) if 
you will give me letters, and a procuration here, in foria 
to me, with orders to the perfbn who has your money in 
liOnd€J!«, to fend your effects to Lilboti, to fuch perfons 
as 1 fhall dired, and in fuch goods as are proper for this 
country I will bring you the produce of them, God will- 
ing, at my return ; but fince human affairs are all fub-* 
iea, to changes and difafters, I would have yon give orders 
but for looL fterling, Which^yoafay is half your ftook^ 
mnd let the hazard be run for the firft; fothat if it 
comes fafe, you may order the reft the ibne way ; and 
if it Ittifcarries, you iiiay have the other half to have re- 
courfeto for your fupply. 

This was flich wholelome advice, and bok'd fb fHend« 
ty, that I could not btrt be convinced it was the befl 
courfe I could ;ake ; ft> I accordingly prepared letters to 
the gentlewoman with whom I had left my money, and « 
procuriition to the Portoguefe captain, as he defired. 

I wrote the £ng!i(h captain's widow a full account 
of all my advtntures, my flavcry, efcape, and how I 
had met with the Portugal captain at fea, the humanity 
t>f his behaviour, and what ^condition I was now in. 
With all other ncceffary dircdtions for my fupply } 
knd when thv3 honeft captain caste to Lifron, he fbuiid 

means 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. if 

means, by fomc of the Englifh merchants there, to fend 
over not the order only, but a full acJcount of my ftory 
to a merchant at London^ who prefente J it effedlually to 
her; whereupdn, (he not only delivered the monev, but 
out of h^r own pocket fent the Porcngal captain aver/ 
handfome prefent for his humanity and charity to me. 

The merchant in London vetted this looi. in £ngliil» 
' goods, fudi as the captain had written for ; fent them 
directly to him at LiA)on, and he brought them all fafe t» 
me to the Brafils ; among which, without mv diredkion 
(for I was too young in mv bufinefs to think of them) 
he had taken care ti^ have all forts of tools, iron-work» 
and tttenHIs neceffary for my plantation, and which were 
of great u(e to me. 

When this cargo arrived I thought my fi>rtane made» 
for I Was fdtprised with the joy of it ; and my good Hew* 
Urd, ^e captain, had laid out the cl. which my friend 
had fent him for a prefent ^or himtelf, to purchafe, and 
bling me over a fervaht under bond for fix years fer- 
Vice; and would not accept of any confidtracion, except 
A little tobacco, which 1 V^ould have him accejpt, being 
df ray own produce. 

Neither was thiis all $ but my goods being all EngliAt 
^anufa^urea, fuch as cloth, ftuff, bays, and things par^ 
ticuiarly^valuable and dcArable in the country^ 1 found 
means to fell them to a very great advantage ; fo that I 
may fay, I had more than four times the value of my firft 
cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my poor neigh- 
bour, I mean in the advancement of my plantation ; §6ic 
the firft thing I H'd, I bought me a Negro (lave, and an 
European fervant alfo ; I meaii another betides that whkh 
the captain brought me from Li ibo.n. 

But as abnfed profpcrity is oftentimes made the very 
means of our greateft adverfiiy, fo was it with me. f 
H^flt on the next year with great fuccefs in my platita*' 
cion ; I raifed 50 great noils of tobacco, on my own 
ground, more than I had difpofed ef for necehai-kv 
4tmong my neighbours; and thefe 50 fOlls being each 
of above loolb. weight, were well cared, and laid by, 
againlt the return of the fleet firom Lifbon. And now 
increafkig in buunefs and wealth, my head began to be 
full cf projects and undertakiags beyond my reach; 



Sf ADVENTURES OP 

fuch as EFe indeed often the ruin of the befl headis in 
bufinefs^ 

Had I continued in the flation I was now in> I had 
room for all the happy things to have yet befallen me, 
for which my father fb earneftly recommended a quiet 
retir;;d life, and which he had fo feniibly defcribed the 
midcle. flation of life to be full of; but other things 
attended me, and I was ftill to be the wilful agent of all 
my own miferies: and particularly to increase my ^ults, 
aiKl double the reHedions upon myfelf, which in my fu- 
ture forrows I ftiould have leifure to make ; all thefe 
mifcarriages were procured by my apparent obflinatc 
adhering to my fboUih inclination of wandering abroad ; 
and purfuing that inclination, in contradidlion to the 
cleareil views of doing myfelf good in a fak: and plain 
purfuit of thofe profpe^ls, and thofe meafures of life, 
which nature and providence concurred to prefent me 
with, and to make my duty. 

As I had once done thus in breaking away from my 
parents, fo I could not be content now, but I mull go 
and leave the happy view I had of being a rich and 
thriving man in my new plantation, only to purfue a 
ra(h and immoderate defire of riiing fafter than the na- 
ture of the thing admitted ; and thus I caft myfelf dowji 
again into the deepeft gulph of human m^ifery that ever 
man fell into, or perhaps could be confident with life, 
an,d a ilate of health in the world. 
, To come then by juft degrees to the particulars of 
this part of my ftory ; you may fuppofe, that having 
now lived almofl four years in the Bra^i >> and beginning 
to thrive and profper very well upon my plantation, I 
had not only learned the language, but had contracted 
acquaintance and friendihip among my fellow planters 
as well as among the merchants at St. Salvadore, whick 
was our port*; and that, in my difcourfe among them, 
I had frequently given them an account of my two voy- 
ages to the coail of Guinea, the manner of trading with 
the Negroes there, and how eafy it was to purchafe upon 
the coall, for trifles (fuch as beads, toys, knives, fciffar?, 
hatchets, bits of glafs, and the like) not only gold dull, 
Guinea grains, elephants teeth, &c. but Negroes for the 
fcrvlcc of the Brafils, in great numbers* 

They 



I 



ROBIN SON CRtTS OE. ^f 

They liftened always very attentively to my difcourfes 
on thefe heads, butefpecially to that part which related 
to the buying Negroes, which was a trade at that time not 
only not far entered into, but, as far as it was, had been 
carried on by the Affientos, orpermiilion of the king of 
Spain and Portugal, and engroffed in the public flock ;, 
fo that few Negroes were bought, and thofe exteffive dear. 

It happened, being in company one day with ibme 
merchants and planters of my acquaintance, and talking 
of thofe things very earncftly, three of them camlc to ms 
the next morning, and told me, they had been mufing 
very much upon what I had difcourfed of with them the 
iafl night, and they came to make a fecret propofal to 
me ; and, after enjoining me fecrccy, they told me that 
th«y had a mind to fit out a fhip to go to Guinea ; that 
they had all plantations as well as I, and were flreight- 
ened for nothing fo much as fervants ; that as it was a 
trade that could not publicly fell the Negroes when they 
came home, fo they de^ed to make but one voyage, 
to bring,the Negroes on fhore privately, and divide them 
among their own plantations ; and, in a word, the quef- 
tion was, whether I would go their fupercargo in the 
fhip, to manage the trading part upon the coail of Gui- 
nea ? And they offered me, that I fhould have my equal 
fharc of the Negroes, without providing any part of the 
flock. ' » 

This was a fair propofal, it mnfl be confe£ed, had it 
~ been made to any one that had not had a fettlement and 
plantation of hit own to look after, which was in a fair 
way of coming to be very confiderable, and with a good 
flock upon it. But for me, that was thus eflablifhed, 
and had nothing to do but go on as I had begun for three 
or four years more, and to have fent for the other lool. 
from Fngland, and who in that time, and with that little 
addition, could fcarce have failed of being worth 3 or 
4000]. flerling, and that increafing too; for me to think 
of fuch a voyage, was the mofl prepoflerous thing that 
ever man, in lucll circumflances, could be guilty of. 

But I, that was born to be my own'deflroyer, could 
no more rcfift the offer, than I could reflrain my firfl 
rambling dcfigns, when my father's good counff 1 was 

loll 

. ^ - 1 



40 ADVENTURES OF 

loH upon me» In a word, I told them I would go with 
all my heart, if they would undertake to look after my 
plantation in my abfence, and would difpofe of it to 
fuch as I /hould dircd, if I mifcarried. This they all 
engaged to do, and entered into writings, or covenants, 
to do fo ; and I made a formal will, diifofing of my 
plantation and eJfFedls, in cafe of my death, making the 
captain of the (hip that had faved my life, as before, 
my univerfal heir, but obliging him to difpole of my ef- 
fe&s as I had directed in ray will ; one half of the produce 
being to himfelf, and the other to be (hipped to £ngland. 

In (hort, I took all poflible caution to preierve my 
efFe^s, and to keep up my plantation. Had I ufed half 
as much prudence to have looked into my own intereft, 
and have made a judgment of what J ought to have 
done, and not to have done, 1 had certainly never gone 
away from fo profperous an undertaking ; leaving all the 
probable views of a thriving circumftance, and gone up- 
on a voyage to (ea, attended with all its common ha- 
zards ; to fay nothing of the reafoni I had to expe<6l 
particular misfortunes to myfelf, ' 

But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the didates 
of my fancy, ^r^ther than my reckon: and accord- 
ingly the (hip being fitted out, and the cargo finifhed, 
and all things done as by agreement, by my partners in 
the voyage ; I went on board in an evil hour again, the 
ift of September, 1659, being the fame day eight years 
that 1 went from my father and mother at Hull, in order 
to ad the rebel to their authority, and the fool to my 
omt intereft. 

Our ftiip was about 120 Tons burthen, carried fix 
guns and fourteen men, befides the maHer, his boy, 
and myfelf : We had on board no large cargo Of goods, 
except fuch toys as were fit for our trade with die 
Negroes ; inch as beads, bits of glafs, inells, and odd 
trifles ', efpecially little looking-glafFes, knives^ fcif- 
iars, hatchets, and the ^like* >^ 

The fame day J went on board, we fet faU» (landing 
away to tlie northward upon our own coafls, with 
defign to ftretch over for the African coaft, when they 
came in about 10* or 12 degrees of northern lati- 
tude; which> it feems^ was the manner of their courfe 

in 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 41 

ia th(rf*e days : we had very good weather, only excef- 
five hot, all the way upon our own coaft> till we came 
to the height of Cape St. Augultino; from whence keep- 
ing farther off at fca, we loll fight of land, and Hecred as 
il we were bound for theifle Fernand de Noronba, hold- 
ing our courfe N. E. by N. and leaving thofe iflcs on 
the Bail. In this courfe we pafTed the line in about 12' 
days time, and were by our laft observation in 7 de- 
grees 22 min. northern latitude, when a violent tor- 
nado or hurricane took us quite out of our knowledge ; 
it began from the fouth-eaft, came about to the north- 
well, and then fettled in the north-eail, from whence 
it blew in fuch a terrible manner, that for 12 days to- 
gether, we could do nothing but drive ; and fcudding 
away before it, let it carry us wherever faic and the 
fury of the winds direded; and during thefe 12 days I 
need not fay, that I expedled every day to be fwallovved 
up, nor did any in the fliip expcft to fave their lives. 

In this diftrefs we had, beiides the terror of a ilorm, 

one of our men died of the calenture, and a man and a 

boy wa/hcd over-board. About the 12th day, the wca- 

^.e^ abating a little, the mailer made an oblervation as 

well as he could, and found that he was in about 1 1 dc* 

grees of north latitude, but that he was 22 degrce*^of 

longitude difference well from Cape St. AuguSino, fo 

ttat he f.und he was gotten upon the coall of Guiana, 

tor'^north pan of Brafil, beyond the river Amazones, 

towards that of the river Oroonoque, conimonly called 

the Great River ; and now he began to confult with me 

what cgurfc he ihould take ; for the fliip was Icsky, snd 

very much difabled ;- and he was for going dire^lly back 

to the coall oi Brafil. 

I was politively againll that, and, looking over the 
charts ot the lea coall of America with him, we concluded 
there "was ly) inhabited country for us to have recourfe 
to, till we came, within the circle of the Caribbelflands; 
and therefore reiolved to Hand away for Bai-baboes.which 
by keeping off at fca, to avoid the indraught of the 
.bay or gulph of Mexico, we might cafiiy pertorm, as wc 
hope^, in about filteen days lail ; whereas we could 
not poffibly make our voyage to the coall of Africa, 
without fome ailiilance both to our fhip and to ourfelves. 

With 



4.S ADVENTURES OF 

With this defign we changed oar courfe, and fleered 
away N.W. by W. in order to reach fomc of our En- 
gl ifli iflands, where I hoped for relief; but our voyage 
was otherwife determined ; for, being in the latitude of 
12 deg. 1 8 min. a fecond florm came upon us, which 
carried us away with the fame, impetuofity weftward, 
and drove us fo out of the very way of all human com- 
merce> that had all our lives been faved, as to the isa, 
we were rather in danger of being devoured by favages, 
than ever returning to our own country. 

In this dillrefs, the wind flill blowing very hard, one 
of our men, early one morning cried out land ; and 
we had no (boner lun out of the cabin to look out, in 
hopes of feeing whereabouts in the world we were, but 
the (hip ftruck upon a fand, and in a moment, her mo- 
tion being fo flopped, the fea broke over her in fuch a 
manner \hat we expelled we fhould all have perifhed im • 
mediately ; and we were even driven into our clofe qoar • 
ters, to (helter us from the vcty foam and fpray of the ea. 
It is not eafy fbr any one, who has not been in thrg 
like condition, to defcribe or conceive the confl ma: ion 
of men in fuch circumftances ; we knew nothing whtrs 
>V* >vvere, or upon what land it was we' were driven^ 
w?iethcr an ifland 'or the main, whether inhabited or 
not Inhabited : and, as the rage of the wind wa^ fliU 
great, though rather lefs than at firll, we co:- d not fo 
much as hope to have the fhip hold many minutes with- 
out breaking in pieces, unleis the winds, by a kind of 
miracle, fhould turn immediately about. In a word, 
we fat looking one upon another, and expecting death 
every moment, and every man ading acco;dingly, as 
preparing for another worlii ; fur there was little or 
nothing more for us to do in this : that which was 
our prefent comfort, and all the comfort we had, was,, 
that, contrary to our expeftation, the IH'p did not 
break yet, and that the mafter {aid the wind began to 
abate. 

Now, though we thought that the wind did a little 
abate, yet the fhip having thus flruck upon the fand, 
and ilicking too faft for us to expeft her getting off, 
.%ve were in a dreadful condition indeed, and had no- 
thinff to do but to think of faving our lives as well as 

we 



ROB INSON CRUSOE. 45 

we could. We had a boat at our ftern, juft before thr 
fbrm ; but fhe was firil ftavcd by dafhing aeainft the- 
fhip's rudder, and in the next place (he broke away, 
and either funk, or was driven off to fca, fo there was 
no hope from her: We had another boat on board, but 
how to get her off into the fea was a doubtful thing ;. 
however, there was no room to debate ; for we fancied 
the fhip would break in pieces every minute ; and fomc 
told us fhe was adually broken already. 

In this diffrefs the mate of ourveilel lays hfAd of the 
boat, and with the help of the reft of the men, they got 
her flung over the Ihip's fide, and getting all into her, 
let go, and committed ourfelves, being eleven in num- 
ber, to God's mercy and the wild fea ; for though the 
ftorm was abated coniiderably, yet the fea went dread- 
fully high upon the fhore, and might well be called Dea 
vvild Zee, as the Dutch call the fea in a ftorm. 

And now our cafe was very difnlal nideed ; for we all 
faw plainly, that the fea wient lo high, that the boat 
could not efcape, and that we flioutd be inevitably drown- 
ed. As to.making fail, we had none, nor, if we had, 
couJd we have done any tiling with :: ; fo we worked at 
the oar towards the land, though with heavy hearts, like 
men going to execution;. £or we all knew, that when 
the boat came near the iHore, ihe would be dafhed in a 
thoufand pieces by the breach of the fea. However, 
we committed our fouls to God in the moft earneft man- 
ner,, and the wind drivin,^ us towards the Ihore, we 
hailened our deftrudlion with our own hands, pulling, as ^ 
well as we could, to.vaids land. ^^ 

What the ihore was, whether rock or fand, whether ' ^ 
ileep or Ihoal, we knew not ; the only hope that could ^-^ 
rationally give us the leailHiadow of expedation, was, 
if we might happen into ibme Bay or Gulph, or the 
mouth of fome river, where by great chance we might 
have run our boats in, or got under the lee of fhe land ; 
and perhaps made fraootb water. But there was nothing 
of this appeared ; but as -we made nearer and nearer 
the ihore, the land looked more frightful than the 
feai . 

After we kad rowed, or rather driven,, about a league 
and a h»lf, aa wc rccltoried it, .a raging wave, moan- 

tainr 

i 



44 ADVENTURES OF 

tain-like, came rolling aflern of usj and plainly bid U9 
expe^ the Coup de Grace. In a word, it took us with, 
iuch a fury, that ic overfet the boat at once, and fepa- 
racing us as well from the boat as from one another, 
gave us not time hardly to fay, Q God I for we were all 
Avallowed up in a moment 

Nothing can dekribe the confuiion of thought which 
I felt when I funk into the water; for- the? I fwam very 
well, yet I could not deliver myfelf from the waves^ (o 
as to draw breath, till that wave having driven me, or 
rather carried me a vaft w^y on towards the (hore, and 
having fpent itfelf, went back, and left me upon the 
land almofl dry, but half dead with the water 1 took 
in : I had fo much prei^nce of mind, as well as breath 
left, tl>at feeing myfelf nearer the main land than 1 ex- 
pe^ed, I got upon my feet, and endeavouring to make 
on towards the landt as fall as I could, before another 
wave fhould return, and take me up again. But I foon 
found it was impoiBble ta avoid it, for I faw the fea 
come after me as high as a great hill, and as furious as 
.an enemy, which I had no means or ilreng(h to contend 
with ; my bufinefs was to hold my breath, and raife my- 
felf upon the water, if I could, and fo by fwim^niag lo 
preferve my breathing, and pilot myfelf towards the 
ihore, if poffible ; my greatcft concern now being, that 
the wave, as it would carry me a great way towards the ^ 
ihore when it came on, might not carry me back again 
with it, when it gave back towards the fea. 

The wave that came upon me again, buried me at 
onde 20 or 30 feet deep in its own body, and 1 could 
feel myfelf carried with a mighty torce and fwiftnefs 
towards the ihore, a very great way ; but I held my 
breath, and aiBfted myfelf to fwim ftill 'forward with 
all my might. 1 was ready to burft with holding my 
breath, when, as I found myfelf rifing up, fo^ to my 
immediate relief, I found my head and hands fhoot 
out above the furface of the water ; and though it was 
not two feconds of time that I could keep' myfelf fo, 
yet it relieved me greatly, gave me breath and new 
courage. I was covered again with water a good 
while, but not lo long bUt I held it out ; and finding the 
water had fpent it[di, and began to return, I fli uck 

fjrward 



ROBINSON CRU80E. 45 

forward againft the return of t^e waves/ and felt 
ground again with my feet. I flood ftiU a few moments 
to recover breath, and till the waters went from me, and 
then I took to my heels, and ran with what Itrength I 
had, farther towards the ihore. But neither would this 
deliver me from the ftiryof the fea, which came pour- 
ing after me again, and twice more I was lifted up by 
the waves, and carried forwards as before, the fhore be- 
ing very flat. 

The laft time cf tbefe two had well near been fatal 
10 me ; for the fea, having hurried me along as before, 
ianded me, or rather daihed me, againft a piece of a 
•rock, and that with fuch ibrce, as it left me ienfelefs, 
and indeed helplefs, as to mine own deliverances ; for the 
blow^ taking my fide and breaft, beat the breath as 
it wcrej|Qit€ outof my body ; and had it returned again 
immediately, 1 maft^have been ftrangled in the water ; 
but I recovered a little before ihc return of the waves ; 
and feeing I (hould be covered again with the wate^, I 
refolved toholdfaft by a piece of the rock, and fo to 
hold my breath, if poffible, till the wav-e went back. 
Now as the waves were not fo high as at firi\, being 
near land, I kept my hold till the waves abated ; and 
then fetched another run, whkh brought me {o near the 
(here, that the next wave, tho* it went over me, yet 
riAid not So IWallow me op, as to carry me away ; and the 
next run 1 took, I got to the main land, where, to ny 
great comfort. I clambered up the clifts of the fhore, and 
(at me down upon tlie grafs, tree from danger, and quite 
out of the reach of the water. 

I was now landed, and faie on (hore, and began to 
look up and tkank God, that my life was faved in a 
' Cafe w^mn dieie was, fome minutes before, fcarce any 
foom to k^. I believe it is impoffible to exprefs to 
the lUet^i^t the extafies and tranfports of the foul 
are when it is ib iaved, as I may (ay, out of the very 
grave; an4I do not wonder now at that coftom, viz. 
'i'hat when a malefa^r, who has the halter about his 
neck, is tied up, and jufb going to be turned off, and 
has a reprieve Drought to him ; I fay, i do not won- 
der, thai they bring a furgeon with it, to let him hlood 
that very moment they tell him of.it, that the fiirprife 



46 AD VE NTURES OP 

may not drive the animal fpirits from the hearti and 

overwhelm him. 

Fer/uddenjoys, like griefs y confound aifirft. 

I walked about on tlie (hore, lifting up my hands, 
and my whole being, as I may fay, wrapt up in the 
contemplation of my delif erance, making a thoufand 
geftures and motions, which I cannot defcnbe, refleding 
upon all my comrades that were drowned, and d^at there 
ihould not be ofte foul faved but myfelf ; for as tor them, 
I never faw them afterwards, or any fign of them, ex- 
cept three of their hats, one cap, and two ^tuot^^ that 
were not fellows. 

I call my eyes to the branded veffel, when the breach 
and troth of the fea being fo big, I could hardly fee it, 
it lay fo far off; and conSdered, Lord! how was it poili- 
ble 1 could get on ihore. 

^fter I had folaced my mind with the comfortable 
part of my condition, I began to look round me, to fee 
what kind of place I was in, an4 what was the next xx^ 
be done ; and I foon found my comforts abate, and that, 
in a word, I had a dreadful deliverance ; for I was wet, 
had no cloaths to fhift me, not any thing either to cat 
or drink, to ccmfort me ; neither did I fee any profpcift 
before me but that of periftiing with hungpr; or bei»g 
devoured by wild beafts : And that \4rhich^as particu- 
larly aifii6ling to me was, that 1 had nd weapon^either to 
hunt or kill any cr.eature for my fuitenanco, or to defend 
myfelf againfl 3ny other creature that might deiire to kill 
jnc for theirs. In a jword, 1 had nothing about me but a 
knife, a tobacco pip^^ and it littletiobaccDdna box ; this 
was all my proviEon, and this threw me' into terriMe 
agonies of mind, that for a while I fan about like^a 
madman. Night coming upon me, L began with an 
heavy l^rt, to confider what would be my lot, if there 
were an^ra venous beafts in that country, facing at night 
they always come abroad for their prey. 

All the remedy that offered to my thougj^ts at that 
tigae was,* to get up into a ihick bulhy tree like a fir, 
but thorny, which grew near me, and where i refolved 
to fit all night, and ^ confider the next day what death 



^' 



^ R O B I N S Q N C R U S O E. 47 

■ I'fhould die; for, as yet, I faw no prolpeft of life. I 
\] walked about a furlong from the ihore, to fee if I copld 
^ find any frefh water to drink, which I did to my great 
. joy ; and having drank, and put a little tobacco in my 
mouth, to prevent hunger, I went to the tree; and, 
getting up into it, endeavoured to place myfelf fo, as 
that, if I ihould fleep, I might not fall ; and, having 
cut me a fhort ftick like a truncheon, for my defence, I 
^ took up my lodging ; and having been exceflively fa- 
tigued, I ieW faft afleep, and flept as comfortably as I 
believe few could have done in my condition ; and 
found mylelf the moft refrefhed with it, that I think I 
ever was on fuch an occaiion. 
f When 1 avaked it was broad day, the weather clear, 

" and the ilorm abated. To that the lea did not rage and 
fwejl as before : But that which furprL^ed me moll was, 
that the (hip was lifted off, in the night, from the fand 
. where (he lay, by the fwelling of the tide, and was 
f driven up almoft as far as the rock, which I firll men* 
- tioned, where 1 had been fo bruifed by the daftiing me 
againll it ; this being within about a mile from the ftiore 
where I wa?, and the fhip feeming to ftand up HWl, I 
wifhed mylelf on board, that at leail, I might fave fome 
neceiTary things for my uie. 
i When I came down from my apartment in the tree, 

I looked about me again ; and the firft thing I found was 
the boat, which lay as the wind and the lea had toffed 
her upon the land, about two miles to my right hand. 
I walked as far as 1 could upon the fhore, to have got to 
her ; but found a neck or inlet of water between me 
and the boat, which was about half a mile broad; fo I 
came back, for the pretent, being more intent upon get- 
ting at the (hip, where I hoped to find fomething for my 
prefent fubfiftence. 

A little after noon I found the fea very calm, and 

the tide ebbed fb far out, that I could come ^^/jj^ a 

quarter of a mile of the (hip : And here 1 founafflrrelh 

^'' renewing of my grief ; for I faw evidently, that if we 

had kept on board, we hnd been all fafe ; that is to hy, 

I we had all got fafe on fhore, and I had not been fo mi- 

P ferable as to be left ehtirely deftitute of all comfort aftd 

^ company, as I now was : This forced tears from my 

i " ^^ 



4» ADVENTURES OF 

e/es again; but as there was little relief ia that» I re 
(oivedMif polTible, to get xo the fhip ; fo I pulled off my 
cloaths (for the weather was hot to an extreme) and took 
to the water ; but when I came to the fhip, my difficulty 
was lUli greater to know how to get on board ; as (he 
lay aground and high out of the water, there was no- 
thing within xay reach, to lay hold of; I fwam round 
her twice, and the fecond time I efpied a fmall piece of 
rope, which I wondered I did not fee at firll, hang down 
by the fore chains, to low, as with great difficulty I got 
hold of it, and, by the help of that rope, got up into 
the fi|K'Caftle of the (hip. Here I found that the (hip 
was buged, and a great deal of water in the hold, but 
that (he lay fo on the fide of a bank of hard (and, or 
rather earth, that her (tern lay lifted up upon the bank, 
^nd her head low almofl to the water ; by this means all 
her quarter was free, and all that was in that part was 
dry, for you may be fure my work was lo fcarch, and to 
fee what was fpoilt and what was free : And fitH I found, 
that all the Ihip's proviiions were dry, and untouched by 
the water ; and, being very well difpofed to eat, I went 
to the bread room, and filled my pockets with bifcuit, 

. and eat it as I went about other things, for I had no time 
to lofe. I aifo fjand fome r«m ia the great cabin, of 
which I took a large dram, and which I had indeed need 
enough of, to fpirit me for what was before me. Now 

i wanted nothing but a boat, to furni(h myfelf witji 
many things which I forefaw would be very necc'flary 
to mc. 

It was in vain to fit ftill and wifh for what was not 
'to be had ; and this extremity roufed my application. 
We had feveral fpare yards, and two or three large 
^>ars of wood, and a fpare top-mad or two in the 
fliip ; I refolved to fall to worK with thefe, and flung 
as rnany of them overboard as I could manage for their 
weight, tying eyery one with a rope, diat they might 
not drive away f when this was done, I went down the 
(hip's fide, and pulling them to me, I tied four of 
them faft together at both ends as well as I could, in 

' the form ot a raft ; and, laying two or three (hort 
pieces of plank upon^them crofs.ways, I found I could 
walk upon it very well, but that it was not able to bear 

any 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 49 

any great weight, the pieces being too light ; fo I went 
to work, and with a carpenter's faw I cut a fpare top- 
mall into three lengths, and added them to my raft, 
with a great deal of labour and pains ; but the hope 
of furni^ing myfelf with neceffarics, encouraged me to 
go beyond what I (hould have been able to have done 
upon another occafion. 

My raft was now ftrong enough to bear any reaibn- 
able weight ; my next care was what to load it with, 
and how to prelerve what I laid upon it from the {arge 
of the fea ; but I was not long confidcring this : I firft 
laid all the planks or boards upon it that I cojdd get ; 
and having confidered well what I moft wanted, I fir ft 
got three of the feamens chefts, which I had broken 
open and em/- lied, and lowered them down upon my 
raft; the firft of thefe I filled with provifions, viz. 
bread, rice, three Dutch cheefes, five pieces of dried 
goat's flefti, which we lived much upon, and a little 
remainder of European corn, which had been laid by 
for fome fowls which we brought to fea with us, but 
the fowls were killed'; there had been fome barley and 
whesLt together, but, to -my great difappointment, I 
found afterwards^ that the rats had eaten or fpoiled it 
all. As for liquors, I found feveral cafes of bottles 
belonging to our Ikipper, in which were fome cordial 
waters, and in all about five or fix gallons of arrack ; 
thefe 1 ftowed by themfelves, there being no need to 
put them into the cheft, nor any room for them. While 
/ was doing this, I found the tide began to flow, though 
very calm, and I had the mortification to fee my coat, 
(hht, and waiftcoat, which I had left on fhore upon 
the land, fwim away; as for my breeches, which were 
only linen, and open kneed, 1 fwam on board in them 
and my ftockings ; however, this put me upon rum- 
maging for clothes, of which 1 found enough, but 
took no more than I wanted for the prefent ufe, for I had 
other things which my eye was more upon ; as firft 
tools to work with on fhore, and it wal after, long 
fearching that I found out the carpenter's chett, wbich 
was indeed a very ufeful prize to me, and much more 
valuable than a fhip laden with gold would have been at 
that time, I gQ.t it down to my raft, even whole a,s it 
Vol* I. C .was 



i 



i 



50 . A D V E N T U R E S O P 

was without lofing time to look into it, for I knew in 
general what it contained. 

My next care was for fome ammunition and arms : 
Ti ere were two very good fowling pieces in the great 
crbin, and two piftols ; thefe I fecured firil, with fome 
pc wder horns, a fmall bag of (hot, and two old rufty 
vords : I knew there were three barrels of powder in 
he fhip, but knew not where our gunner had flowed 
hem; but with much fearch 1 found them, two of them 
dry and good, the third had taken water ; thefe two I 
got to my raft, with the arms : and now I thought ray 
lelf pretty well freighted and began to think how I 
(hould get to fhore with them, having neither fail, oar, 
or rudder, and the leaft cap full of wind would have 
overfet all my navigation, 

I had three encouragements : i a fmooth and calm fea. 
2 The tide rifmg and fetting in to the (hore. 3 What 
little wind there was blew me towards the land. And 
thus, having found two or three broken oars belonging to 
the boat, and hefides the tools which were in the cheft, 
I found two iaws, an ax, and a hammer ; and with 
this cargo I put to fea ; for a mile, or thereabouts, my 
raft went very well, only that I found it drive a little 
dillant from the place where I had landed before ; by 
which I perceived that there was fome indraught of the 
water, and confequently I hoped to find fome creek of 
the river there, which 1 might make ufe of as a port to 
gee to land with my cargo. 

As 1 imagined, fo it was ; there appeared before me a 
little opening of rhe land. I found a flrong current of 
the tide fet into it, fo I guided my raft as well as I 
could to keep in the middle of* the ftream : but here I 
had like to have fuiFered a fecond fhipwreck, which, if 
I had, I think verily would have broken my heart ; for, 
knowing nothing of the coaft, my raft ran aground at 
one end of it upon a Ihoal, and not being, aground at 
the other end, it wanted but a little that all my cargo 
had flipped off towards that end that was afloat, and fo 
fallen into the water ; I did my utmofl by fetting my 
back againft the chefts, to keep, them in their places, 
but could not thruft off the raft with all my ftrength ; 
neither durft I ftir from the pofture I was in, but, holding 

up 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 51 

up the chefls with all my might, flood in that manner 
near half an hour, in which time the rifing of the 
water brought me a little more upon a level ; and a 
little after, the water ftill rifing, my raft floated again, 
and I thrull her off with the oar I had, into the channel, 
and then driving up higher, I at length found myfclf in 
the mouth of a little river, with land on both fides, 
and a ftrcng current of tide running up. I looked on 
both fides for a proper place to get to fhore, for I was 
not willing to be driven too high up the river, hoping 
in time to fee fome (hip at fea, and therefore refolved to 
place myfelf as near the coall as I could. 

At length I elpied a little cove on the right (hore of 
the creek, to which, with great pain and difficulty, I. 
gu'ded my raft ; and at lall got fo near, as that, reaching 
ground with my oar, I could thrufl her direftly in ; but 
here I had like to have dipped all my cargo in the fea 
again; for that (hore lying'pretty fteep, that is tofay, 
(loping, there was no place to land, but where one end 
of the float, if it ran on (hore, would lie fo high, and 
the other fink lower, as before, that it would endanger 
my cargo again : all that I could do was to wait till 
the tide was at the higheft, keeping the raft with m/ 
oar, like an anchor, to hold the lide of it fail to the 
(here, near a flat piece of ground, which I expedled the 
water would flow over, and fo it did ; as foon as 1 found 
water enough (for my raft drew about a foot of water) 
I thruft her upon that flat piece of ground, and there 
failened, or moored her, by (licking my two broken oars 
into the /ground ; one on oi^e fide near one end, and one 
01 the other fide near the other end ; and thus I lay till 
the water ebbed away, and left my raft and all my cargo 
fafe on (hore. 

My next work was to view the country, and feek 3 
proper place for my habitation, and where to (tow my 
goods, to fecure them from whatever might happen. 
Where I was, I yet knew not; whether on the continent, 
or on an ifland ; whether inhabited, or not inhabited ; 
whether in danger of wild beafts, or not. There was a 
hill not above a mile from me, which rofe up very deep 
and high, and which feemed to overtop fome other hills 
which lay as in a ridge from it northward : I took out 
C 2 one 



5» ADVENTURE SO F 

one of the fowling-pieces, and one of the piftols, and 
a horn of powder, and thus armed, I travelled for dif- 
covery up to the top of that hill, where, after I had with 
great labour and difficulty got up, I immediately faw 
By fate, to my great afHidion ; viz. that I was in an 
ifland environed every way with the fea, no land to be 
fcen> except fome rocks, which lay a great way off, and 
two fmall iflands lefs than this^ which lay about three 
leagues to the Weft. 

I found alfo that the iiland I was in was barren, and, 
as I faw good reafon to believe, uninhabited, except by 
wild beafts, of which, however, I faw none ; yet I faw 
abundance of fowls, but knew not their kinds, neither, 
when I killed them, could I tell whaL was fit for food, 
and what not. At my coming back, 1 ihotat a great 
bird which I faw fitting upon a tree on the fide of a 
large wood ; I believe it was the firft gun that had been 
fired there fince the creation of the world. I had no 
fooner fired, but from all the parts of the wood there 
arofe an extraordinary number of fowls of many forts, 
making a confufed fcreaming and crying, every one ac- 
cording to his ufual note ; but not one of them of any 
kind that I knew : As for that creature I killed, I took 
it to be a kind of an hawk, its colour and beak refem- 
bling it, but it had no talorts or claws more than com- 
mon; its fiefh was carrion, and fit for nothing. «» 

Contented with this difcovery^ I came back to my 
raft, and fell to work to bring my cargo on fhore, 
which took me up the reft of the day ; what to do with 
myfelf at night, 1 knew not, nor indeed where to reft ; 
for I was afraid to lie down on the ground, not know- 
ing but fome wild beaft might devour me, tho' I after- 
wards found, there was really no need for thofe fears. 

However, as well as I could, I barricadoed myfelf 
round with th^hefts and boards that I had brought on 
ihore, and made a kind of an hut for that night's lodg- 
ing ; as for food, I yet faw not which way to fupply my- 
felf, except that 1 had feen two or three creatures like 
hares, run out of the wood where I fhot the fowl. 

I now began to confider, that I might yet get a 
great many things out of the fhip, which would be 
ii/e/iiJ to me, and particalarly fome of the J-igging and 

fails 

w 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 51 

Tails, and fuch other tiv^gs as might come to hand ; and 
I refolvcd to make another voyage on board the veffel,^ 
if jwiBble ; and as I knew that the -firft ftorm that blew 
xnuHneceflarily break her all in pieces^ I refolved to fet 
all other things apart, till I got every thing out of the 
fhip that I could get ; then I called a council, that is to 
fay> in my thoughts, whether I fhoold take back the 
raft, but this appeared impradticable ; fo I refolved to 
go as before, when the tide was down ; and I did fo, 
only that I ftripped before I went from my hut, having, 
nothing on but a chequered fliirt, a pair of linen drawers, 
^and a pair of pumps on my feet. 

I got on board the (hip as before, and prepared a fe* 
cond raft; and, having had experience of the firil, I 
neither made this fo unweildy, nor loaded it fo hard ; 
but yet I brought away feveral things verv ufeful to me ; 
*8 firft, in the carpenter's florel found tvvi or threcbags 
full of nails and fpikes, a great fcrew jack, a dozen or 
two of hatchets, and above all, that moft ufeful thing 
called a grindilone : all th^e I fecured, together with 
feveral things belonging to the gunner, particularly two 
pr three iron crows, and two barrels of mufkct-bullets, 
feven muikets and another fowling-piece, with fome 
{mall quantity of powder more, a large bag fuUof fmali 
(hot, and a great roll of flieet lead j but this lad was fa 
heavy, I could not h<jitf it up to get it over the Ihip's fide. 

Befides thefe things, I 'took all the men's cloaths that 
I could £nd, and a fpar« fbre-top fail, hammock, and 
fome bedding ; and with this I loaded my fecond raft, 
and brought them alfo all fafe on^ ihore, to my very 
great comfort. 

I was under (bme apprehenfions during my abfence 
irom the land, that at leafl my proviiions might be de- 
voured on ihore ; but when 1 came back, I found no- 
Sign of any vifitor, only there iat a creature like a wild 
cat, upon one of the chelts, which, when I came to- 
,ward$ it, ran away to a little diilance, and then flood 
dill ; (he fat very compofed and unconcerned, and looked 
iull in my face, as if ihe iiad a mind to be acquainted 
.with me. Iplrefented my.gan^.at her, but (he did not 
anderHimd it, (he was perfedUy unconcecned at it, nor 
.4id (he.offer toilir away ; upoa which lioied Mtr a i>it 



54 ADVENTURES OF 

of bifcuit, though by the way I was not very free of it, 
for my (lore was not great. However, I fpared her a 
bit, I fay, and (he went to it, fmellcd of it, and eat it, 
and looked (as pleafed) for more ; but I thanked her, 
and could fpare no more, fo fhe marched off. 

Having got my fecond cargo on fhore (though I was 
fain to open the barrels of pcwder, and bring them by 
parcels, for they were too heavy, being large cafks) I 
went to work to make a little tent with the fail, andfome 
poles which I cut for that purpofe, and into this tent I 
brought every thing that I knew would fpoil, either with 
rain or fun ; I piled all the empty chefls and caflcs up 
in a circle round the tent, to fortify it from any fudden 
attempt, either from man or beaft. 

When I had done this, I blocked upu the door of the 
tent with fme boards within, and an empty cheft fet 
up an end vtrlthout ; and fpreading one of the beds upon 
the ground, laying my two piftols juft at my head, and 
my gun at length by me, J went to bed -for the firll 
time, and flept very quietly all night : I was very weary 
and heavy, for the night before^ I had flept but little, and 
had laboured very hard all day, as well to fetch fhofe 
things from the {hip, as to get them on fhore. 

1 hud the biggeft magazine of all kinds now that ever 
were laid up, 1 believe, for one man ; but I was not fa- 
tisficd fill I .; for while the (hip fat upright in that pofture, 
I thouglit I ought to get every thing out of her that I 
could ; fo every day at low water I went on board, and 
brought away fomething or other: but particularly the 
third time I went, I brought away as much of the rig- 
ging as 1 could, as alfo all the fmall ropes and rope- 
twine I could get, with a piece of fpare canvas, which 
was to mend the fails upon occafion, and the barrels of 
wet gunpowder; in a word, I brought away all the 
•^ fails firil and lall, only that I was fain to cut them in 
pieces, and bring as much at a time as 1 could ; for 
they were no more ufefiil to nle for fails, but as mere 
canvas only. 

But that which comforted me more ftill, was, that at 

laft of all, after I had made five or fix fuch voyages as 

thefe, and thought I had nothing more to expeft from 

the Ihip, that was worth medling with ; I fay^ after 

alt 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. $$ 

ill this, I found a great hogfhead of bread, three Targe 
rundlets of rum, or fpirits, a box of fine fug^, and a 
barrel of fine- flour; this was furprifmg to me, be- 
caufe I had given over expedling any more provlfions, 
except what was. fpoiled by the water. I foon emptied 
the hogfliead of that bread, and wrapt it up, parcel by 
parcel, in pieces of the fails, which I cut out : and, ii 
a word, I got all this i'afe on ihore alfo, tliough at fcveral 
times. 

The next day T made another voyage, and now hav- 
ing plundered the (hip of what was port£.ble, and fit to 
hand out, I began with the cables, and cutting the great 
cable into pieces, fuch as I could move, I got two 
cables and an hawfer on ihore, with all the iron -work 
T could get ; and having cut down the fprit-fail yard 
and the mizen-yard, and every thing I could to make a 
large raft, 1 loaded it with all thofe heavy goods, and 
came away : but my good luck began to leave me, for 
this raft was To unwieldy, and fo overladen, that after I 
was entered the little cove, where I had landed the reft 
of my goods, not being able to guide it fo handily as I 
did the other, it overfet, and threw me and all my car- 
go into the water ; as for myfelf, it was no great harm, 
for I was near the fliore; but as to my cargo, it was 
great part of it loft, efpeciaily the irOtt, wtiich 1 CXpCc^::! 
would have been of great ufe to me ; however, when 
the tide was out, I got moft of the pieces of ca»Je 
afhore, and feme of the iron, though with infinite labour^ 
for I was fain to dip for it into the water, a work which 
fatigued me very much ; after this, I went every day on 
board, and brought away what 1 could get. 

I had been 13 days on fhore, and had been eleven 
times on board the^fhip ; in which time .1 had brought 
away all that one pair Ci hands could well be fuppofed 
capable to bring ; though I believe verily, had the calm 
weather held, I fhould- have brought away the whole 
fhip, piece by piece ; but preparing the twelfth time 
to go on board, I found the wind began to rife ; how- 
ever, at low water, I went on board, and tho' I thought 
I had rummaged the cabin fo efFedlually , as thatnothin* 
mo^e could be found, yet I difcovered a locker 
drawers in it, in one of which I found two . or 



56 ADVENTURES OF 

razors, and one pair of large fciffars, with ten or a do- 
7en good knives and forks ; in another I found about 
thirty-fix pounds value in money, feme European coin, 
fome Brafil, fome pieces of eight, fome gold and foroe 
filver. 

I fmiled to myfelf at the fight of this money. O 
drug ! faid I aloud, what art thou good for? Thou art 
not worth to me, no, not the taking off the ground ; 
one of thofe knives is worth all thie heap ; I have no 
manner of ufe for thee ; e'en remain where thou art, 
and go to the bottom, as a creature whofe life is not 
worth faving ; however, upon fecond thoughts, I 
took it away, and wrapping all this in a piece of can- 
vas, I began to think of making another raft, but 
while I was preparing this, 1 found the iky overcaft, 
and the wind began to rife, and in a quarter of an hour 
it blew a fi efh gale from the (hore ; it prefently oc- 

«*t»rrtf..l tck niA. that ik wa& U^ wj^iu to m-t^ic^...! ;r. &T\akQ ft 
--..,._... -, — J .- , 

raft, with the wind offlhore, and that it was my ba- 
finefs to be gone before the tide of flood begnn, other- 
wife I might not be able to reach the fliore at all ; ac- 
cordingly 1 let myfelf down into the water, an.d flvn.T, 
acrofs the channel, which lay between the ihip and the' 
fand, and even that with difficulty enough, partly with , 
- THfT wcignr or The tnings 1 had about me, and partly 
tlie rou|hnefs of the water, for the wind rofe very 
Ivillily, and before it was quite high water, it blew a 

^°B^*t I was gotten home to my little tent, where I lay 
with all my wealth about me very fecure ; it blew very 
hard all that night, and in the morning, when I looked 
out, behold, no more Ihip was to be feen. 1 was a 

' little iurprifed, but recovered myfelf with this fatisfac- 
tory rcfledlion ; viz. that I had loft no time, nor abated 
any diligence, to get every thing out of her that could 
beufefulto me; and that indeed there was little left 
in her that I was able to bring away, if I had yet 
more time. I now gave over any more thought of 
the fhip, or of any thing out of her, except what might 
drive on ftiore from her wreck ; as indeed divers pieces 
of her a/rcward9di4, but thofe things wereoflriiall 

"fctomc, ^ 



fSfy^^feouglits lyere )i^ow w^ojly employed aVout ft- 
toring myfelf ajgainft eitKc;- fyy^ges, if^-oy (hould ^i^ 
jgea^, or wild beafts, if ^y w«;rfiin the iij^n^; and I had: 
inany thoughts of a jpiethod jtKoyf to do this, and yfl^t 
Jd;id of .dwelling tojp(iake> iM^€ith^r I fhould makjB mcA- 
cave in tl^e .^art(\, pr^ tenjt uj^on ,thc efirth.: and, Jiia; 
fhort, I refoly^d ,m)op ^th i ^e ms^r^r ^.nd ^efgrifiticvi 
,of which ^t may %ot bi^ imp/oper to give ^n accouivt of. 
I fooi;! found the |>lacf I was ^.j;l w^s not ibr sj^y fet- 
tlement, pa^tjicular^y l^e^caule it wa^ upon a low iriooriiji'. 
grqu^id n^ar t^e fea>,and I believed WQ^Jd not be whoi* 
fomt, and more particularly be.oaufe tjhere was no watCiT 
^ear it ; £o I rerQived.to iind^ n^ojrj^ he^ltJiy ^d «iiore 
copve^icnt fpo^ qf grom?,4. 

I confulted {^veral things in v^y ^luajtiop, which f 
/bund woijild Ve proper for fflie^ jS^-Jib, health^ and frcfe 
water, as I juft now mention^ ;. fecoftdly, i^elt^r from . 
f\\c heat of thefuj^j thirdly, <ecui;ity from ravenous. 
CTeat^r^s, whethej inan or be^ijl ; fourthly, a view tO: 
the Tea, th^t if God fepjt any ^p in figbtr I migfit no|t 
lois ^y adyaiitag^ of ^y deliverance, for wWca J" was?. 
flOjt willing to jb^iib my expe&ai^ioti yet* 
, In iEe^ch of a place proper for this, I found a littl? 
plain on the fide of a rifing hiil> whpfe form towards, 
this litt}/e pla^n, w^ as ^eep as aA hpufe iide, fo that 
nothing could come down upon me from the top ; on 
the fide of this rock there was an hollow place, wpra 
a, little way in, like the entrance or door of a cave> 
jbut there was not really any cave or way intp tha roclcL 
at all. 

On the flat of the gr^et^, juft before this hoUoW' 
plac?, I refolved to pitch my tent. This pU^ wa& 
not above ap hundred yards broad, aiy} about twice as. 
long, and lay like a green before the door, and at the 
end of it defcended ir^eguUrly everyway down into* 
the low grounds by the fea-fide. It was on the N. N*. 
W. fide of the hill, fo that it was ftieltered from the* 
heat every d^y, till it came tp a W. and by S. fun, or 
thereabouts, which in thofc countries is near the fet- 
ting, 

Before I fet up my tent, I drew an half circle beforpr 
the hollow pl^ce, which took in ^o\it tea yards in its^ 
C i k\ai 



S» ADVENTURES OF 

femidiameter from the rock, and twenty yards in !t» 
diameter, from its beginning and ending. 

In this half circle I pitched two rows of ftrong flakes^ 
driving them into the ground till they flood very firm 
like piles, the biggeft end being out of the ground above 
iive feet and an half, and iharpened on the top, the two 
jows did not Hand above fix inches from one another. 

Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in 
the (hip, and laid them in rows upon one another, with- 
in the circle, between thofe two rows of flakes, up to 
the top, placing other flakes in the infide, leaning 
againft them, about two feet and a half high, like a 
fpiH' to a poll ; and this fence was fb flrong, that nei- 
ther man or beafl could get into it, or over it. This cofl 
2n€ a great deal of time and labour, efpecially to cut 
the piles in the wood, bring then to the place, and 
driv€ them into the earth. 

The entrance into this place I made to be, not by a 
door, but by a fhort ladder to go over the top j which 
ladder, when I was in, I li^ed over after me; and ia 
I was completely fenced in, and fortified, as I though t> 
from all the world, and confcquently flept fecure in the 
night, which, otherwife, 1 could no^ have done ; though 
as it appeared afterwards, there was no need of all this 
caution from the enemies I had apprehended danger 
ircan. 

Into this fence, or fbrtrefs, with infinite labour, I 
carried alT my riches, all my provifions, ammunition, 
and vftores, of which you have the account above ; and 
I made me a large tent alfo, to preferve me from the 
rains, that in one part of the year are very violent there,. 
I made it double ; xiz. one fmallcr t^nt within, and 
one larger tent aiiove it j and covered the upperniofi 
part of it with a large tarpaulin, which I had faved 
among the fails. 

And now I lay no more for a while in the b«d which 
I had brought on fhore, btit in an hamnKx:k, which was, 
indeed a very |;ood one, and belonged to the mate of 

thefWp. 

Into this tent I brottght all my provifions, and every 
^ng; ^dtat wouMt fpoil by the wet; and having thus j 
' rji^cd aU my j^oods, I made up the •catsaace, which | 

\ 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 59 

till now I had left open, and fo paiTed and repaiTed, as 
I faid, by a fliort ladder. 

When I had done this, I began to work my way into 
the rock, and bringing all the ear^i and flones that I 
dug down, out through my tent, I laid them up within 
my fence in the nature of a terrace, fo that it raifed the 
ground within about a foot and an half ; and thus I 
made a cave juft behind my tent, which ferved me like 
a cellar to my houfe. 

It'coft me much labour, and many days, before all 
thefe things were brought to perfe£lion ; and therefore 
J mail go back to fome other things which took up 
fomeofmy thoughts. At the fame time it happened, 
after I had laid my fcheme for fetting up the tent, 
and making the cave, that a florm of r^in falling from 
a thick dark cloud, a fudden fla(h of lightning happened^ 
and after that, a g^eat clap of thunder, as is naturally 
the efFe£l of it, I was not fo much furprifed with the 
lightning, as I was with the thought which darted into 
^y mind as fwift as the lightning itfelf. O my pow- 
der ! My very heart funk within me, when i thought, 
that at one blall all my powder might be deflroyed, on 
which, not my defence only, but the providing me food, 
as I thought, entirely depended ; I was nothing near io 
anxious about my own danger, though, had the powder 
took fire, 1 had never known who had hurt me. 

Such impreffif)n did this make upon me, that after 
the ilorm was over, I laid afide all my work, Iny build- 
ing and fortifying, and applied myfelfto make b^gs 
<and boxes tofcparate my powder, and to keep it a little 
and a little in a parcel, in hopes, that whatever might 
come, it might not all take fire at once, and to keep fo 
apart, that it (hould not .be poffible to make, one part 
fire another. I iinifhed this work in about a fortnight, 
and r think my powdqr, <»'hich in all was about i4Qlb.. 
weight, was divided into no lefs than an hundred par- 
cels. As to the barrel that had been wet, I did not 
apprehend any danger from that, fo I placed it in my 
new cave, which in my fancy I called my kitchen; and 
the refl I hid up and down in holes among tlfe rocks, 
fo that no wet might come to it, marking very qaxefaUy , 
where X laid it. ** 



6d ADV^NTUftfiSOP 

In the interval of time while tkis was doing, I weiff 
out at lead once every day with my gun, as well to di- 
vert myfelf, as to fee if I could kill any thing fit for 
ibod> and, as near as I could, to acquaint myfelf with 
what the ifland produced. The firft time I went out, I 
prcfently difcovered that there were goats in the ifland, 
which was a great fatisfa^lion to me ; but then it was 
attended with this misfortune to me^ viz. That they 
were fo fhy, fo fubtle, and fo fwift a foot, that it was 
the dilficulteft thing in the world to come at them ; but 
I was not difcouraged at this, not doubting but I might 
now and then (hoot one, as it foon happened ; fc^r after 
i had found their haunts a little^ I laid wait in this man^ 
ner for them : I obferved, if they faw me in the valleys, 
though they were upon the rocks, they would run away 
as in a terrible fright 5 but if they were feeding in the 
valleys, and I was upon the rocks, they took no no- 
tice of me ; from whence I concluded, that by the pofi- 
tion of their optics, their fight was fo diredled down^ 
ward, that they did not readily fee obje£ls that were 
above them ; fo afterwards J took this method 2 I al- 
ways climbed the rocks firft, to get above them, and 
then had frequently a fair mark. The firft ihot I toad6 
among thefe creatures, I killed a (he goat which had a 
little kid by her, which ihe gave fuck to, which grieved 
me heartily ; but when the old one fell, the kid ftood 
ftock ftill by her till I came and took her up, and not 
only fo, but when I carried the old one with me upon 
my Ihoulders, the kid followed me quite to hiy inclo^ 
fure ; upon which I laid down the dam, and took the 
kid in my arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes 
-to have bred it up tame, but it would not eat ; fo I Was 
forced to kill it, and cat it myfelf: thefe two fupplied 
me wirh flefh a great while, for I eat fparingly, and 
laved my provifions (my bread efpecially) as much as 
> poffibly 1 could. 

Having now fixed my habitation, I found it abfo- 
lutely necefTary to provide a place to make a fire in, and 
fuel io burn ; and what I did for that, as alfo how I 
inlarged my cave, and what conveniencies 1 made, I 
£23}} give a full account of in its place ; but I muft firft 
^/V^ fome little accQunt of myfelf, and of my thoughts 



ROSIiiSON CRUS0£. 4t 

About living, which it may be well fuppofed wer€ not a- 
few, 

I h^d a difmalprofpe^^f my condition ;: for as I was 
tiot eaft away upon that ifland, without being driven, as 
isfaid, by a violent florm, quite out of the courie of our 
intended voyage, and a grcali. way, viar. fome hundreds' 
of leagues out of the ordinary couHeof the trade of man- 
kind, I had great reafon to conftder it as a determinatioit' 
of heaven, that in this defolate place« and in this defo^ 
late manner, I Khould end my li^. The tears would run" 
plentifully down my face when I made thefe reflections > 
and fometimes I would expoilulate with myfdf, why 
Providence fhould thus completely ruin its creatures, 
and rendr^r them fo abfolutely miferable, fo without 
help abandoned, and fo entirely depreiTed, that k coold 
hardly be raiional to be thanj^fol for iiich a life. 

But fomethlng always returned fwifo upon me to check- 
thefe thoughts, and lo reprove me ; and particularly 
one day, walkiTig with my gun in my hand, by the fea- 
iide, I was very pen five upon the fubjed of my prefent 
condition, when reafon, as it were, put in, expoftulating. 
with me t'other way, thus: Well, you are in a defolate 
condition, tis true ; but pray remember^ where are the 
reft of you ? Did not there come eleven of you into the 
boat } Where are the ten f Why were not they favedy 
and you loft ? Why are you fingled out ? Is it better to 
be here or there ? And then I pointed to the fea. AU 
evils iare be confidered with the good that is in them^ 
and with what worfe attended them. 

Then it occur'd to me again, how Well I was furiiifh'd 
for my fubfiftence, and what would have been my cafe^ 
if it had not happened, which was an hundred thoufand 
to one, that the (hip floated from the place where iirft (he 
ftruck, and was driven fo near to the fhore, that I had 
time to get all thefe things out of her ! What would 
have been my cafe, if I had been to have lived in the 
condition in which I at iirft^ came on Ihore, without ne- 
ceflaries of life, or any means to fupply and procure 
them ? Particularly, faid I aloud, tho' to myfelf, what 
would I have done without a gun, without ammunition, 
widiout any tools to make any things or to work with ? 

Without 



^ 



"V 



e^ ADVENTURES OF . 

Without cloaths, bedding, a tent, or any manner of 
covering ? And that now I had all thefe to a fuiiicient 
quantity, and was in a fair way to provide mylelf in 
fucha manner, as to live without my gun when my am- 
munition was fpetit, fo that I had a tolerable view of 
fubfiiling without any want as long as I lived ; for I coh- 
iidered, from the beginning, how I fliould provide for the 
accidents that might happen, and for the time that was 
to come, even not only after my ammunition Ihould be 
fpent, but alfo after my health or ftrength Ihould decay. 

I comfefs I had not then entertained any notion of my 
ammunition being deflroyed at one blail, I mean my 
powder being blown up by lightning; and this made the 
thoughts of it furprissing to me, when itlighj:ened and 
thundered^ as I obferved juft now. 

And now, being to enter into a melancholy relation, 
of a fcene of filent life, fuck perhaps as was never 
heard of in the world before, J fhall take it from its be-* 
ginning, and continue it in its order. It ^as, by my ac-^ 
count, the 30tii of September, when, in the manner 2ls, 
above faid, 1 iirll fet foot upon this horrid ifland, whea 
the fun being to us ia its autumnal equinox, was almoft 
juft over my head ; for I reckoned myfelf, by obfervation,, 
to be in the latitude of 9 degrees,) 22 mln. (outh of the 
line. 

After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it 
came into ray thoughts that I fhould l©fe my reckon-, 
ing of time for want of books, and pen* and ink, and 
ihould even forget the iabbath days from the working 
days. But to prevent this, I cut it with my knife, upon 
a large poft, in capital letters, and making it into a 
great crofs, I fet it up on the fhore where I firil landed* 
viz. 1 came on (bore here the 30th of September, 1659* 
Upon the fides of this fquare poft 1 cut ev^xy day a 
notch with my knife, and every feve»th no;ch was as 
long again as the reft, and every firft day of the month 
as long again as that long one ; and thus I kept my ca- 
lendar, or weekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning of 
time. 

In the next place we are to obferve, that among the 

••hings that I .brought from the fhip in the feve- 

-es, whkhj as above-mentioned^ I made to it, I 



ROBINSON CRUS OE. €% 

got feveral things of lefs value, but not at all lefs ufefui 
to me, which I omitted fetting down before ; as in par- 
ticular, pens, ink, and paper, feveral parcels in the cap- 
tain's, mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping, three 
or four compafTes, fome mathematical inllruments, dials, 
perfpedlives, charts, and books of navigation, all which 
I huddled together, whether I might want them or not ; 
I alfo found three very good bibles, which came to mQ 
in my cargo from EngUnd, and which I had packed up 
among my things ; fome Portuguefe books alfo, and 
among them, two or three pupifh prayer-books, and fe- , 
veral other books, all which 1 carefully fecured. And I 
mufi; not forget that we had in the (hip a dog and two 
tats, of whofe eminent hiftory I mull have occafion to 
fay foniething in its place ; for I carried both the cats 
with me, and as for the dog, he jumped out of the Ihip 
of himfelf, and fwam on fhore to me, the day after I went 
on (horc with my firft cargo, and was a truity fervant to 
me many years. I wanted nothing that he could fetch 
me; nor any company that he could make up to me ; I 
only wanted to have him talk to me, but that he could 
not do. As I obfcrved before, I found pens,' ink, and 
paper, and I h<ifbanded them to the utmolt, and I (hall 
ihew, that while my ink lafted, I kept things very exadt, 
but after that was gone, I could not ; for 1 could not 
make any ink, by any means that I could get. 

And this- put me in mind that I wanted many things, 
notwithflanding all that I had amafTed together ; and of 
thefe, this of ink was one ; as alfo a fpade, pick -axe, and 
ihovel, to dig or remove the earth 5 needles, pins, and 
thread ; as for linen, I fo«n learned to want that, with- 
out much difficulty. 

This want of tools made every work I did go or 
heavily, and it was near a whole year before I had en- 
tirely finifhed my little pale, or furrounded habitation : 
The piles or ftakes,. whidi were as heavy as I could 
well lift, were a long time in cutting and preparing in 
the woods, and more by far in bringing home ; fo that 
I fpent fometimes two days in cutting and bringing home 
one of thofe pofts^ and a third day in driving it into the 
ground ; w which purpofe I got a heavy piece of 
vraod at firil« ^ut at lad bethought myfelf of one of f 

'I 



64 Al>yF^^TUR|S?^' dF 

iron cr6ws, which however, though I foUp^, jx yet m^dc- 

driving thofe polts, or pile?, very laborious a9d tedious 

work. 

But what need I to have been concerned at the tediouf-, 
aefs of any thing I had to do, feeing, I had t|me enough 
to do it in ? Nor had I any other employ^xnent, if th^t 
had been over,, at leaft tl;iat I couJd forefee, except the 
ranging the ifland to feek for food, which | did, n^iore orr 
lefs, every day. 

I now began ferioufly to confi4er my condition, ^ni 
the circumftaTices I waa reduced tp, and I drew up the 
ftate of my affairs in writing ; not fo rnuch to leayc 
itiCTfi to any that were to come after me, for twas like- 
to have but few heirs, as to deliver my thoughts frojn. 
daily poreing upon them, and afHifting my mind ; and 
as my reafon began now to mailer my defpondcncy, L 
began to comfort niyfelf as well as. I coipJd, and to fet. 
the good againft the evil, that I might have fomething to 
diftinguiih my cafe from worfe ; send I Hated it very 
impartially, like debtor aiid creditoi^,the comfort I en- 
joyed, againfl the miieries I fuffered; thus i 

EVIL*'' GOOD.^ 

I am caft upon an horrir But I am alive, and not 
blc defolate ifland — void of drowned, as all my ftiip's. 
all hope of recovery ► company were. 

I am (ingledout and (epsc" But I am fingled out uxy 

rated, as it were, from all from all the (hip's crew, tO' 

the worlds to Ji^e miferable. be fpared trom death ; and 

' iie that miraculoufly faved 

me from death, can deliver 

me from this condition* 

I am divided from man- But I am not ftarved, and 
kind, a folitary, one banilh- perifliing on a barren place,, 
^d from human fbciety. aiFording no fuilenance. 

I have no cloaths to cover But I am in an hot di^ 
me* raate,whereifIhadcloaths, 

I could hardly wear them. 
Lata 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 65 

1 am.without any defence. But 1 am call on an ifland 

or means to refill any vio- where I fee no wild beaib tp 

lence of man or beaft. hurt me, as I faw on thp 

coaft of Africa ; And what 

if I had been fhipwrecked 

there ? 

I have no foul to fpeak But God won4erfully fent 
to, or relieve me. the Ihip in near enough the 

fhore, that I have gotten out 
fo many neceffary things as 
will either fupply mywants» 
or enable me to fupply my- 
felf, even as long as I ' live. 

tjpon the wH^le, here was an undoubted teltimony* 
that there was fcarcc any condition in the world fo mi- 
iwable^ but there was.fomethlftg negative, or lomethttig 
pofitive, to be ihankful in it j and let this ftand as a 
diredioa from the expejiciice of the moil iniferable of 
all conditions in this)vorld, that we may always find 
in it fomething to Comfort ourfelves from, and to fet, in 
the defcription of good and evil, on the credit fide of 
the account. 

Having now brought my mind a little to relifti my 
condition, and giving over looking out to Tea, to lee if 
J could fpy a fhip; I fay, giving over thefe things, I 
began to apply m)felf 10 accommodate my way of'livr 
ing, and to make things as eafy to me as I could. 

1 have already defcribed my habitation, which was a 
tent under the fide of a rock, furrounded with a ftrong 
pale of polls and cables, but I might rM>>v rather call ic 
a wall ; for Lraifed a kind of wall up againfl it of turfs> 
about two feet thick on the outfide ; and after fome time, 
(I think it was a year and an half) I raifed rafters from 
it, leaning to the rock, and thatched, or covered it with 
boughs of trees, and fuch things as I could g<?t to keep 
put ^ the rain, which I fou,nd at fome tijjie^ of the year 
very violent, 

1 have already obfei ved liow I brought all my goods 
into this pale, and into the cave which 1 had made be- 
hind me. But I m,uflrobierve too, ^h^t, at £rft, this was 



i 



46 ADVENTURES OP 

a confufcd heap of goods, which, as they lay in no or- 
der, (o they took up all my place ; I had no room to 
turn myfelf, fo I fet myfelf to enlarge my cave, and 
worked iai ther into the earth ; for it was a loofe fandy 
rock, which yielded eafily to the labour I bellowed 6n it : 
And fo, when 1 found I was. pretty fafe as to beafts of 
prey, I worked fideways to the right-hand into the rock, 
and then turning to the right-hand again, worked quite 
out, and made my door to come out on the outfide of 
my pale or fortification. 

This gave me not only egrefs and rcgrcfs, as it was 
a back way to my tent, and to my ftore-houfc, but gave 
me room to ftow my goods. 

And now I began to apply myfelf to make fuch neccf- 
fary things as T found I moil wanted, particularly^ a chair 
and a table ; for without thefe I was not able to enjoy 
the few comforts I had in the world ; I could not write 
or eat, or do feveral thing, with fo much pleafurei witK- 
out a table. 

So I went to work ; and here I muft needs obferve, 
that as reafoa is the fubftancc and origjin of the mathe- 
matics, fo, by dating and fquaring every thing by rea. 
fon, and by making the moll rationaljudgment of things, 
every man may be, in time, mafter of every mechanic 
art. I had never handled a tool in my life, and yet in 
time, by labour, application, and contrivance, I found 
at laft, that I wanted nothing but I could have made it, 
efpecially if I had had tools ; however, I made abun- 
dance of things even without tools, and fome with no 
more tools than an adze and an hatchet, which perhaps 
were never made that way before, and that with infinite 
labour. For example, if I wanted a board, I had no 
other way but to cut down a tree, fet it on an edge be- 
fore me, and hew it flat one ither fide with my axe, till 
I had brought it to be as thin as a plank, and then dub 
it fmooth with my adze. It is true, by this method I 
could make but one board out of a whole tree ; but this 
I had no remedy for but patience, any more than I 
had for the prodigious deal of time and labour which it 
took me up to make a plank or board. But my time or 
labour was little worth, an4 fo it was as well epiployed 
vac way as another. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. $7 

However, I made me a table and a chair, as I obferved 
above, in the fipft^^lace, and this I did out of the (horl 
pieces of boards that! brought on my raft from the Ihip. 
But when I had wrought out fome boards as above, I 
made large ftielves of the breadth of a foot and an half, 
one over another, all along one fide of my cave, to lay 
all my tools, nails, and iron work, and, in a word, to 
feparate every thing at large in their places^ that J might 
eafily comfi at them j I alfo knocked pieces into the wall 
of the rock, to hang my guns, and all things that would 
hang up. 

So that, had my cave been to be fcen, it looked like 
a general magazine of all necefTary things ; and 1 had 
every thing fo ready at hand, that it was a great plca- 
fure to me to fee all my goods in fuch order, and efpe« 
cially to find my Hock of all necefTaries fo great. 

And now it was when I began to keep a juurr*al cf 
every day's employment 5 tor indeed at firft I was in too 
much hurry, and not only an hurry as to, labour, but in 
too nivch difcompofure of mind, and my journal would 
have been full of many dull things. For example, I 
muil have faid thus : Sept. the 30th, after 1 got to fhore, 
and had efcaped drowning, inftead of being thankful to 
God for my deliverance, harving firfl vomitted with a 
great quantity of falt-water, which was gotten into my 
ttomach, and recovering myfelf a little, I ran about the 
ftiore, wringing my hands, and beating my head and 
face, exclaiming at my mifery, and crying out, I was 
undone, undone ! till, tired and faint, I was forced to lie 
down on the ground for repole, but durfl not fleep for 
fear of being devoured. 

Some days after this, and after I had been on board 
the (hip, and had got all I could out pf her, yet I could 
not forbear getting up to the top of a little mountain, 
and looking out to fea, in hopes of feeing a ftiip, then 
fancy at a vaft diftance I efpied a fail, pleafe myfelf with 
the hopes of it, and then after looking fteadily till I was 
almoft blind, lofe it quite, and fit down and weep like a 
child, and thus increafe my mifery by my folly. 

But having gotten over thefe things in fome mea- 
fure, and having fettled my houfhold 0ufF and habita- 
tion, made me a jcable and a chair, and all as handfome 

abo' 



€8 ADVENTURES OT 

about me as I could, I began, I fay, to keep my journal;., 
of which I fhall here give 3*ou the copy, though in Iti 
will be told all thefe particuliirs over again, as long as 
it lafted ; for at laft, having no more ink, I was forced- 
:io leave it off. 



I 



THE JOURNAL- . • 

SEPTEMBER 50, i6scj. I> poor miferable Robinfon- 
Crafoc, being ihipwrecked dnring a dreadful florm in 
the offing, came on (here o n this difmal and ttofortonate 
ifland. which I call the IfliUnd of Defpair, all the reft pf 
^tkm &*^'s company being ^irowncd, and myfelf almott. 
dead. 

All the reft of the day I (pent :in affiifting myfelf at 
the difmal cirpuiuftances I was birought to, viz. 1 had 
aeiin«r food, houfe, cloaths> Wi<eapon,.or place to fly tp, ' 
and, in defpair of any relief> fa*»v nothing but death bp« 
fore me, either that 1 ftiould be devoured by wild beafts, 
murdered by favages,or ftarved to death for want of food. 
At the approach of night, I fleptin a tree, for fear of 
wild creatures, but flept foundly, 'tho* it rained all night. 
Oftober 1 . In the morning I faw,. to my great furprile, 
the ftiip had floated with the hi^^h tide, and was driven 
on fhore again much nearer theifland; which, as it 
was fome comfort on one hanc£. {for (eeing her fit up- 
right, and not broken in pieces^ I hoped, if the wind 
abated, I might get on board, aad get fome food and 
neceffaries out of her for my relief) fo, on the other 
hand, it renewed my grief, at the lAfs ot my comrades,. 
V?ho, I imagined, if we had all ftaid on board, might 
have faved the ftiip, or at lealft, that they would not have 
been all drowned, as they were; and that, had the men 
been faved, we might, perhaps, have built us a boat out< 
of the ruins of the (hip, to have carried us to fome- 
other part of the world. 1 fpent great part of this day 
jn perplexing myfelf on theib thing* ; but atlength* ^ 
fceiog the ibip ilnioQ. dry, I went oa,Uie (and as near 

a$^ 



ROBIN Sb>I CRUSOE. 6g 

-as I could, and then fwam on board : This day al fo 
continued raining, though with no wind at all. 

From the i ft of Odteber to the 24th. All thefe days 
entirely fpcnt in making feveral voyages to get all I 
-could Out of the (hip, which I brought on Ihore every 
tide of flood, upon rafts. Much rain alio on thefe days, 
though with fome intervals of fair weather. But it feems 
this was the rainy feafon. 

061. 24. I overfet my raft, and all the goods I had 
,got upon it ; but being in ihoal water, and the things 
being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of them when 
the tide was out. 

Odl. 25. It rained all night and all day, with fbme 
^u/lsofwind, during which time the fliip broke in pieces, 
file wind blowing a little harder than before, and was 
nd more to be leeu, except the wreck of her, and that 
^nly at low water. I fperit this day in covering and fe- 
cufing the goods which I hadfaved, that the rain might 
not fpoil them. 

Oft. 26. 1 walked about the ftiore almoll all day, to 
find out;a place to fix my habitatiprt, gre.i!ly concerned 
to fecure myfelffrora any attack in the night, either from 
wild bealts or men. Tow?.rds night I fixed upon a pro- 
per place under a rock, and marked out a femicircle for 
my encj^nTpnisnt, which I reformed to ftr^ngthen with a 
work, wall, or fortification, made of double piles, lined 
within with cable, and without with turf. 

From the 26th to the 30th, T worked very hard in car- 
rying all my goods to my new habitation, though fome 
fSLTt of the time it rained exceeding hard. 

The 31ft, in the morning, I went out into the j (land 
with my gun to fee for (bme food, and difcover the coun- 
try, when I killed a (he gcat, and her kid followed me 
home, which I afterwards killed alfo, becaufe it would 
not feed. ^ 

November i. I fet up my tent under a rock> and lay 
there for the firft night, making it as large as I could, 
^ith flake§^ driven in to fwing my hammock upon. 

Nov. 2. I fet up all my chcfts and boards, and the 
pieces of timber which made my rafl, and with them 
iormed a fence round me, a little witthin the^place I had 
marked out for my fortification. 

Nov. 



i 



7« ADVENTURES OP 

Nov. 3. r went out with my gun, and killed two 
fowls like ducks, which were very good food. In the 
afternoon went to work to make me a table. 

Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times of 
work, of going out with my gun, timeoffleep, and 
time of diverfion, viz. Every morning I walked out 
with my gun for two or three hours, if it did not rain ; 
then employed myfelfat work till about eleven o'clock; 
then eat what I had to live on ; and from twelve to two 
I lay down to fleep, the weather being excefllve hot, 
and then in the evening to work again. The working 
part of this day and the next were wholly employed in 
making this table, for I was but yet a very forry work- 
man, tho* time and neceflity made me a complete na- 
tural mechanic Toon after, as 1 believe it would do any 
one elfe. 

Nov. 5. This day I went abroad with my gun and 
dog, and killed a wild cat, her Ikin pretty ioft, but 
. her tteih good for nothing. Every creature I killed I took 
off" the (kins and preferved them. Coming back by the 
fea-fhore [ faw many forts of fea-fowls which I did not 
unJeriland ; but'was furprifed, and almoft afFiighttd, 
with two or thre;; Teals, which, while I was gazing at, not 
well knowing v/hat they were, got into the fea, arid 
efcaped me for that time. 

Nov. 6. After my morning walk, I went to work with 
my table again, and fmiflied it, tho' not to my liking ; 
nor was it long before I learned to mend it. 

Nov. 7. Novv it began to be fettled fair weatl^er. The 
7th, 8th, 9thVioth and part of the 12th ('or tiff nth 
was .Sunday according to my reckoning) I took wholly 
up to make me a chair, and with much ado brought it to 
a tolerable Ihape but never to pleafe me ; and even in 
the- making I pulled it to pieces ieveral times, — Note, I 
foon negleded keeping Sundays ^ for omitting my mark 
for them on my poll, I forgot which was which. 

Nov. 13. 'Vhls day it rained, which refreihed me ex- 
ceedingly, and cooled the earth; but it was accompanied 
with terrible thunder and lightning, which frightened me 
dreadfully for fear of my powder. As foon as it was over, 
I refolved to feparate my ftock of powder into as many 
Jittle parcels as poilible, that it might not be in danger, 

Nov 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 71 

Nov. 14, 15, 16. Thefe three days I fpent in mak- 
ing liy^^uaxe chefts or boxes, which might hold about 
^ T^mffiAlt^fOVLnds at moll, of [powder ; «nd fo put- 
ting the ptl^K in, I flowed it in places asL fecure and 
remote from OTiPanother as poffible. On one o^ thefe 
three days 1 killed a large bird that was good to ear, 
but I knew not what to call it. 

Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent 
into the rock, to make room for my farther conveniency. 
Note, Three things I wanted exceedingly for this woik. 
Viz. A pick -axe, a (hovel, and a wheel-barrow, or 
baiket ; io I defiiled from my work, and began lo con- 
fider how to fupply that want, and make me fqme 
tools. As for the pick axe, I made ufe of the iron- 
crows, which were proper enough^ though heavy ; but 
the next thing was a ihovel, or fpade ; this y/ks io ab- 
iblutely neceffary, that indeed 1 could do notiiing cfFec- 
tally without it, but what kind of one to make I knew 
not. 

Nov. i8. The next day, in fearchiog the woods, I 
founds tree of that wood, or like it, which in ihe Bra- 
il J s ih«y call the iron tree, for its exceeding hardnefs ; 
of this, with great labour, and almoil fpoili ng my axe, 
1 cut a piece, and brought it home with difficulty. 
enough, for it was exceeding heavy. 

The exceffive hardnels ot the wood, and having no 
other way, made me a long while upon this machine ; 
for I worked it effedually, by little and little, into tht- 
form of a /hovel or fpade, the haddle exadly fnaped 
Jike ours in England, only thai the broad part "having 
no irpn ihod apon it at bottom, it would not lall me io 
long ; however, it ferved well enough for the ufes which 
I had occafion to put it to ; but never was a fhovel, I 
believe, made after that fafhion, or fo long a making. 

I was ftill deficient, for 1 wanted a bafket or wheel - 
barrow,: a balket I could not make by any means, hav- 
ing no fuch things as twigs that would bend to make 
wicker-ware, at lead none yet found out ; and as to the 
wheel-barrow, I fancied I could make all but the wheel ; 
but that I had no notion of, neither did 1 know how to 
go about it ; befides, I had no poffible way to make 
iron gudgeons for the fpindie, or axis^ of the wheel to 

run 



7» ADVENTURES OF 

run in,; fo T gave it over ; and fo, for carrying a>^ay 
the earth, which I dug out Of the cave^ nnj^e me a 
thing like an hod, which the labourerMBfef^ mortar in 
when they fcrvc the bricklayers, j^' 

Thh was not fo difficult to me as the making of the 
(hovel ; and yet this, and the ihovel, and the attempt' 
which I made in vain to make a wheel-barrow, took me 
up no lefs than four days ; I mean always, excepting 
my morning's walk with my gun, which i feldom failed ; 
and very feldom f^led alfo of bringing hoixie ibmething 
£t to eat. 

Nov. 23. My other work having flood ilill, becaufe 
of my makinz thefc tods, when they were finiflied, I 
went on, and working every day *as my ftrength and 
time allowed, I fpent eighteen days entirely, in widening 
and deepening my cave, that it might hold my goods 
comiAodioufly. 

Note •— During all this time I worked to make this 
room or cave fpacious enough to accommodate me as a 
warehoul'e or magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room, and 
a cellar ; as for a lodging, I kept to the tent, except 
that fometimcs, in the wet fcafon of the year, it rained 
fo hard, that I could not keep myfclf dry; which caufed 
me afterwards to cover all my place within my pale 
with long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning againll 
the rock, and load them with flags, and large leaves of 
trees, like thatch. 

Dec. 10. I began now to thl'nk my cave or vault 
finiihed, when on a fudden (it feems I had made it too 
larg^) a great quantity of earth fell down from the top ' 
and One fide, fo much, that in (hoit, it frightened me, 
and not without reafon to ; for if I had been under it, 
I had never wanted a grave-digger. Upon this difafter 
I had a great deal of work to do over again ; for 1 had 
the loofe earth to carry out, and, which was ot more im- 
portance, I had the cieling to prop up, fo that I might 
be fure no more would come down. 

Dec, IX. This day I went to work with it accordir«- 
ly, and got two ihoars, or polls, pitched upright to tiie 
top, with cwo pieces of board acrofs over eachpoil ; this 
I iinifhed the next day ; and fetting up more polls with 
boards, in a about a week more I had the roof fecured, 
and the pofts (landing in rows, fcrved me for partitioxis 
to part off the houfe. 



ROBINSON CRXJSOE. 7^ 

Dec. 17. From this d^ji^to the 20th, I placed Ihelves, 
^nd Icnocked up nails in^he pc^s, to hang every thing 
on that could be hungiip— aftijiow ^ begun to be in 
-ibme order within doOF|I >:\^ 

Dec- ^o. Now I carried evory thing into the cave, 
and began to furniA my hoojfe, and fet up fome pieces 
•of board like a dreffer, to order my viduals upon ; but 
board began to be very fcarce with me-^I alfo made tnc 
another table. 

Dec. 24. Much rain afl night and all day; no flir- 
ringout, 

Dec. 25. Rain all day. 

Dec. 26. No rain, and the earth much cooler than bc^ 
fore> and ple^nter. 

Dec. 27. Killed a young goat and lamed another, fo 
that I catched, and led it home in a firing ; when! 
had it home, I bouad -and fplintered up its leg which 
was broke. N.B. I took fuch care ©fit that it lived, 
and the leg grew well and as ftrong as ever ; but by 
nurfing it fo long it g^ew tame, and fed upon the little 
green at my door, und would not go away. This was 
the /iril time that I entertained a thought of breeding 
"up fome tame creatures, that I iriight have food when 
my powder and (hot was all fpent. 

Dec. 28, 29, 30% Great heats and no breeze ; fo that 
there wafe no ftirring abroad, except in the evening, for 
food. This time I fpent in putting all my things -ia 
•order within doors. 

January i. Very hot ftill, but I wont abroad early and 
late, with my gun, and lay ftill in the middle of the 
^ay. This evening, going further into the valleys, 
which lay towards the center of the ifland, I found ther& 
was plenty of goats, tho' exceedingly ftiy, and hard to 
xome at; however, I refolved to try if I could not bring 
my dog to hunt them down. 

Jan. 2. Accordingly the next day I went out with 
my dog, and fef him ^t the goats 5 but 1 was miftaken, 
ibr they all faced about upon the dog, and he knew his 
-danger too well, for he would not go near them. 

Jan. 3. I began m/ fence, or ivall, which* being ftill 
•jealous of my being attacked by fomebody, I tefol ved to 
make very thick and ftrong* 



74 ADVENTURES OP 

N.B. This wall being defcribed before, I purpofely 
omit what was faid in the Journal ; it is fufficient 
to obferve, that, I was no lefs time than from the 
3d of January to the 14th of ApriF, working, fi- 
nifhing, and perfedling this wall, tho* it was no 
more than about 24 yards in length, being an half 
circle, from one place in the rock to another place 
about eight yards from it, the door of the cave be- 
ing in the center behind it. 
All this time I worked very hard, the rains hinder- 
ing me many days, nay, fometimes weeks together ; but 
I thought I Ihould never be perfeftly feciire till this wall 
was Hnifhed; and it is fcarceJy credible what inexpreffible 
labour every thing was done with, efpecially the bring- 
ing pifes out of the wood, and driving them into the 
ground, for I made them much bigger than I needed to 
j/ave done. 

When this wall was finifhed, and the' outfide double - 
fenced with a turf-wall raifed up clofe to it, I perfuaded 
myfelf, that if any people were to come on fhore there, 
they would not perceive any thing like an habitation : 
and it is very well I did fo, as may be obferved here- 
after, upon a very remarkable occafion. ' 

During this time, I made rounds in the woods for 
game every day, when the rain permitted me, "and 
made frequent difcoveries in thefe walks of ibmething 
or other to my advantage ; particularly, I found a kind 
of wild pigeons, which build not as wood-pigeons, in a 
tree, but rather as houfe-pigeons, in the holes of^e 
rocks ; and taking fome young ones, I endeavoured to 
breed them up tame, and did fo ; but when they grev^ 
older, they all flew away, which perhaps was at firft for 
want of feeding them, for 1 had nothing to give them ; 
however, I frequently found their nefts, and got their 
yoUng ones, which was very good meat. 

And now, in the managing my houfhold affairs, I 
found myfelf wanting in many things, which I thought 
at firil it was impoffible for me to make, as indeed as to 
fome of them it was : For inftance, i could never make 
a calk to be hooped ; .1 had a fmall rundlet or two, as I 
obferved before, but I could never arrive to the capaciti| 
fif making one by them, tho* Ifpervt many weeks aboal 



I KOBIN SON CRUSOE, 75 

»t ; I could neither put in the heads, nor join the (Uves 
fo true to one another as to make them hold water; fo 
I gave that alfo over. 

In the next place, I was at a ^reat lofs for candles s 
ib th^t as foon as it was dark, which was generally by 
■ feven o'dock, I was obliged to go to bed.— I remem- 
bered the lump of beeS'Wax with which I made candles 
in my African adventure ; but I had none of that now ; 
the only remedy I had was, that when I had killed a 
goat, I faved the tallow, and with a little di(h made 
of clay, which I baked in the fun, to which i added a 
wick of fome oakum, I made me a lamp; and thit 
gave me light* tho' not a clear fteady light like a can- 
•dle. In the middle of all my labours it happened, that 
j-ummaging my things, I found a little bag, which, as 
I hinted before, had been filled with corn for the feed- 
ing of poultry, not for this voyage, but before, as I 
; fuppofe, when the (hip came from Lifbon ; what little 

^. remainder of corn had been m the bag was all devoured 

I by the rats^ and I fa w nothing in the bag but hu(k» 

f -and dufl ; and being willing to have the bag for fome 

other ufe (f think it was to put powder in, when I di« 
vided it for fesr of the lightning, or fome fuch ufe) I 
^ ihook the hulks of corn Out of it on one fide of my for- 

I tification, under the rock. 

J It was a little before the great rains, juil now men- 

I tioned, that I threw this fluff away, taking no notice of 

any thing, and not fo much as remembering that 1 had 
thrown any thing there ; when about a month after, or 
thereabouts, I iaw fome few ftalks of fbmething green 
* ihooting cpon the ground, which I fancied might be 
iome plant I had not ken ; but I wasiurprifed, and per- 
"feftly aftonifhed, when after a little longer time, I faw 
aboutten or twelve ears come out, which were perfedl 
green barley, oi the fame kind as our European, nay, as 
our Hnglilh barley. 

It is impoflible to exprefs the afipnifltment and con* 
fufion of my thoughts On this occalion ; I had hitherto 
aded upon no religious foundation at all ; indeed X 
had very few notions of religion in my head, nor 
had entertained any fenfe of any thing that had befallen 
Tae, otherwifc than as a chance, or, as we lightly fay. 



7S ADVE NTCRES bT 

what plcajcs God, without (a much as enquiring irrto 
the end of Providence in thefe things, or his order ia 
governing, events in the world. But after fll^w barley 
grow there, in a climate which I knew was not proper 
■tor corn, and efpecially as I knew not how it came there, 
it flartled me ftrangely, and I began to fuggeft, that 
God had miraculoufly caufed this grain to grow without 
any. help of feed fbwn, and that it was fo diredled, pure- 
ly for my fullenance in that wild miferable place. 

This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out 
of my eyes, and I began to blefs myfelf, that fuch a 
prodigy of nature (hould happen upon my account ; and 
this was the more flrange to me, becaufe I faw neark 
ftill, all along by the fide of the rock, fome other ftrag- 

fling ftalks^ which oroved to be flalks of rice, and whick 
knew, becaufe Inad feen it grow in Africa^ when i 
was alhore there, 

1 not only thought thefe tlie pure produftions of Pro- 
vidence for my fupport ; but not doubting but that there 
was more in the place, I went all over that part of the 
ifland where I had been before, peeping into every cor- 
ner, and under every rock, to fee for more of it, but I 
could not find any; at laft it occurred to my thoaght?^ 
that I had ihaken the bag of chickens meat out in that 
place, and the wonder began toceafe ; and I mud con* 
lefs, my religious thankfulnefs to God's providence be- 
gan to abate, upon difcovering that all this was nothing 
but what was common ; though I ought to have been as 
thankful for fo flrange and unforefeen a Providence, at 
if it had been miraculous ; for it was really the work ctf 
Providence as to me, that fhould order or appoint, that 
ten or twelve grains of corn fhould remain unfpoiled, 
when the rats had deftroyed all the reil^ as if it had been 
dropped from heaven : as alfo, that I fhould throw it out 
into that particular place, where, it being in the fhade 
of an high rock, fprang up immediately : whereas, if I 
had thrown it any where elfe at that time, it had been 
burnt up and deflroyed. 

I carefully faved the ears of this corn, you may be 

fure, in their feafon, which was about the end of June ; 

aad lajring up every grain> I refolved to fow them all 

a^^sia, hoping in ume to have fome c^uantity^ fufficient 



no BIN SON CRUSOE. 77 

torftipply me with bread ; but it was not till the fourth 
year that I would allow myfelf the lead grain of this corn 
to eat, and eve\i then but fparingly, as I (liall fay after- 
wards in. its ordfer, for I loft all 1 fowed the firft fcafon, 
by not obferving the proper time ; for I fowed it juft be- 
fore the dry feafon, fo that it never came pp at all, at 
lead not as it w-ould have done— H)f which in its place. 

Befides this barley, there were, as abcve, twenty or 
liiifiy Haiks of rice which I prcferved with the fame care, 
and whoTe ufe was of the fame kind, or to the fame 
snrpoie, viz. to make me bread, or rather food ; 
ibr 1 found ways to code it up without baking, though 
X did that aifo after fi)me time*. But to return to my jour- 
nal* 

I worked exceiSve hard thefe three or four months, to 
get my wall done ; and the 14th of April I cloied it up, 
contriving to go into it,^ not by a door, but over a wall 
by a ladder, that there might be no fign, on the out- 
fide^ of my habitation, 

April 16. I iiniihed the laddefr ; & I went up with it 
to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and let it 
down on the infide : This ^JJ; a complete inclofure to 
me ; for within I had room enougk, and nothing could 
come at me from^without, unlefs it could £rft mount my 
wall. 

The very next day after this wall was finiftied, I had 
klmoA had all my labour overthrown at once, and my- 
felf killed: the cafe was thus : As I was bufy in the 
iniide of it, behind my tent, juft in the entrance into 
my cave, I was terribly frightened with a mofl dreadful 
furprifing thing indeed : for all on a fuddenl found the 
earth came tumbling down from the roof of my cave, 
and from the edge of the hill over my head, and two 
of the polls I had fet up in the cave cracked in a fright- 
ful manner, I was heartily feared, but thought nothing 
of what really was the caufe ; only thinking that the 
top of my cave was falling in, as fome of it had done 
before, and for fear i (hould be buried iri it, I ran for- 
wards to my ladder, and not thinking myfelf iafe there 
neither, I got over my wall for fear of the pieces of the 
hill, which I expedied might roll dowti upon me, I was 
DO fooner Hept dowa upon the firm ground, but I plain 



^ 



^8 ADVENTURESOP 

ly faw it was a terrible earthquake; for the ground I 
Hood on fhook three times, at about eight minutes dif- 
tance, with three fuch Ihocks as wbuld have overturned 
the ftrongell buildings that could be fuppofed to have 
ilood upon the earth ; and a great piece of the top of 
thei^ock, which ftood at about half a mile from me, next 
the fea, fell down with fuch a terrible noife as 1 never 
heard in all my life, I perceived alfo the very fea was 
put into a violent motion by it; and I believe the fhock* 
were ftfonger under the water than on the ifland. 

I was fo amaiied with the thing itfelf, having never 
felt the like, or difcourfed with any one that had, thati 

' was lik6 one dead or fttipified ; and the motion of the 
earth made my ftomach /ick^, like one that is tofled it 
fea; but the noife ofthe falling of the rock awaked me, 
as it were, and roufing me from the Hupified condition 
I was in, filled me witS honor, and I thought of nothing 
then but the hill falling upon my tent, and all my houW 
hold goods, and burying all at once ; and this funk my 
very Ibul within me a fecond time* 

After the third fhdck was over, and f felt no more for 
fome time, I began to take courage ; and yec I had not 
heart enough to get over my wall again, for fear of be- 
ing buried alive ; but ftill fat on the ground, greatly 
caft down> and difconfolate, not knowing what to do : 
all this while I Had not the leaftferious religious thought, 
tiothing but the common, Lord, have mercy upon me ; 
and when it was over that went away too. 

While I fat thus, I found the air over-caft, and it grew 
cloudy, as if it would rain ; and in lefs than half an 
hour it blew a moft dreadful hurricane of wind.— -The 
fea, all on a fudden, was covered with foam and froth, 
the fhore was covered with the breach of the water, the 
trees were torn up by the roots, and a terrible ilorm it 
was ; and this held about three hours, and then began to 
abate ; and then in two hours more ic was calm, and be- 
gan to rain very hard. 

All this while I fat upon the ground very much terri- 
fied and dejedted, when on a fudden it came into my 
thoughts that thefe winds and rain bsing the confequence 

iJif the earthqaake, the earthquake it^lf was fpent and 
tn^er, ^ud I might venture into my caNt ^^alti : with 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. rf 

this thoaght my fpirits began to revive « and the rain 
helping alfo to perfaade me, I went in, and fat me down 
in my tent ; but the rain was {o violent, that my tent 
was ready to be beaten down with it, and I was forced 
to go into my cave, tho' very much afraid and uneafy, 
for fear it (hould fall on ray head. 

This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz. to 
cut a hole thro' my new fortiBcation, like a dnk, to let 
the water go oat, which wouid clfe have drowned xof 
cave. After 1 had been in my cave fomc time, and 
found ftill no more fhock of the earthquake follow, I 
began to be more compofed ; and now, to compofe my 
fpirits, which indeed wanted it very much, 1 went to 
my little ^ore, and took a fmall fup of rum, which 
however I did then, and always very fparingly, knowing 
1 could have no more when that was gone. 

It continued rainlpg all that night, and great part of 
• the next day, fo that I could not ftir abroad ; but my 
mind being more compofed, I began to think of what I 
had bell to do; concluding, that if the ifland was fub- 
je6i to thc/e earthquakes, there would be no living for 
me in a cave, but I mufl think of building me (ome 
little hut in an open place, which I might furround with 
a wall, as I had done here, and fo make myfelf fecure 
from wild beails or men ; bat concluded, if I (laid 
where I was, I Ihoold ceitainly> one time or other, he 
bucied alive. 

y/ith thefe thoughts I refolved to move my tent 
from the place where it llood, which was juft under the 
hanging precipice of the hill, and which, if it Ihould 
be ihaken again, would certainly fall upon my tent ; 
and I fpent the two next days, beine the 19th and 20th 
of April, in contriving where and how to remove my 
habitation. 

The fear of being fwal lowed up alive aifefted me Co, 
-that I never flept in quiet ; and yet the apprehenfions of 
lying abroad, without any fence, were almoft equal to 
it. — ^fiut Hill, when I looked about, and faw how every 
thing was put in order, how perfedtly concealed I 
was, and howfafe from danger, it mtade me loth to re* 
move. 

1>4 



«• ADVENTURES; OP 

In the m«an time it occurred to me, tJbat it would tt^ 
quire a vafl deal of time for me to do this, and that I 
mult be contented to run the venture where I was, tilj I 
had formed a camp for myfeJf, and hadfecuced itfo as ta. 
remove to it : io with this resolution I compofed myfelf 
for a time, and refolved that I would gotoworit withiill. 
fpetrd to build me a wall with piles and cables, &c. in a 
circle, as before, and fet my tent up in.it when it was 
finiihed ; but that I would venture to ftay where I was till: 
it was finifhed and fit to remove to.— This was the 21ft. 

April 22. The next morning I began to coniider of 
means to put this refolvc in execution ; but i was at a. 
great lofs about my tools ; I had three large axes, and 
abundance of hatchets (for we carried the hatchets ^r 
traiHc with the Indians) but with much chopping and 
cutting knotty hard wood> they wef« all fall of notches*, 
and dull, and tho' I had a grindibne, 1 could not turn it 
and grind my tools too; this ceil me as much tlion^ht 
as a iHtcfman would have beilowed on a grand point 
of poliiicsy or a judge upon the life and death of a cri»- 
minal.— At length I contrived awheel, with a firing to 
turn it with my foot, that i might have both my hands 
ai liberty. — Note, I had net feen any fiich thing in iin- 
gland, or at leall not to take notice how it was done;^ ^ 
tho* fince I have obferved it was very common there 5 
beiides that, my grindJlone was very large and heavy^ 
This machine coil me a full week's work to bring it ta 
perfection, 

April 28, 29. Thefe two whole days I took up in 
grinding my tools ; my machine for turning my grind- 
done performing very well. 

April 30. Having perceived my bread had been 
low a great while, I now took a furvey of it, and reduced 
myfelf to one bifcuit-cake a day, which made my heart 
very heavy. 

May 1 . In the morning, looking towards the fea-fide^ 
the tidd beifig low, I faw fomething lie on the ihore 
bigger tkan ordinary, and it looked like a caik; when I 
came to it, I found a fmall- barrel, and two or three 
pieces of the wreck of the (hip,. whi«h werexiriven on 
yhore by the late hurricane ; and looking towards the 
SKT^cir it/y/S I thought j&feemcdtp. li« ^igjfcier out of the? 



H CTB INS ON C R XJt O E; ft 

water than it ufed to do ; I examined the barrel which 
was driven on fhore^ and £)on found it to be a barrel of 
gunpowder> but it had taken water^ and the powder \ya$ 
caked as hard as a ftone. However, I rolled it farther on 
the fhorc for the prefent, and went on, upon the fands, 
as near as { could to the wreck of the fhlp> to look for 
more. 

When I came down to the ftip, I found it ftrangely 
xemoved ; the forc-caftle, which lay before, buried in 
fand, was heaved up at leafl fix feet ; and the item, which 
was broken to pieces, and parted from the reft by the 
force of the fea, foon after I had left rummaging of her, 
was tofled as it were up, and caft on one iide ; and the 
fand was thrown fo high on that iide next the llern, that 
jwhereas there was a great place of water before, fo that 
I could not come within a quarter of mile of the wreck 
without fwimming, I coula now walk quite ,up to her 
when the tide was out. I was iWprifed at this at iiril* 
but foon concluded it muft be.done by the earthquake ; 
and as by this violence the (hip was more broke opea 
than formerly, fo many things clme daily on fhore which 
the fea had.loofened, and which the winds and, water roi- 
led, by degrees to land. 

This wholly diverted my thoughts from the deiign of; 
removing my. habitation ; and I bufied my felf mightily,, 
that day efpecially, in fearching whether I could mjiker 
any way intp the lhip;,but L found nothing was to be ex-s 
pededof the kind, for that alFthe infide of the fhip was. 
choaked up with fand •' However, as I had learnt not to ^ 
defpair of any thing, I. refolved to. pall every thing to, 
pieces that I could of the fhip, concluding that every 
thing I could get from her would be of fome ufeor other, 
tome. 

May 3, I began with my faw^ and cut a piece of a> 
heam thro' which I thought held fome of the upper part, 
or quarter deck, together 3. and when I. had cu| it thro*,, 
I cleared. away the fai>d, as well. as I could,, from, the 
iidei which lay. higjieft.. "But the tide, coxuing^ in. L wasL, 
jobliged to give it over for that timc.» 

May 4. I went a iilhing, but caught but* one fiBi; that 
Idurileatof, tilL I was weary of -my fport, when> juH: 
going to. leave, off*. I caught a.young^ dolghin.. I. haxli 



June 22. A little better^ but binder dreadfutaj^relYeiii-^ 
fions of-ficknefs*. 

June 23. Very bad again; cold and ihivering) and. 
Aen a violent head-ach. 

June 24 Much better. 

June 2 5 . An ague, v^ry violent ; the fit held me fevea* 
hours-M:old fit and hot— with faint fweats after it. 

June 26. Better — and having no visuals to eat, took: 
my gun, but found rayfclf very weak;: however^ I killed 
4 file goat^ and with much difficulty got it home, and. 
broiled fomet of it« and eat ; I would &in have Aewed it^ 
and made fome broth, but had no pot. 

June 27. The ague again fo violent, that I lay a bed 
all day, and neither eat nor drank. I. was ready to pe* 
ri(h with thirft, but fo weak I had bo ibength to ftand 
up, or get myfelf any water to drink ; prayed to God 
again, but was light-headed ; and when I was not, I 
was fo ignorant that I knew not what to fay ; I only lay 
and cried. Lord look upon me ; Lord, pity me ; Lord, 
have mercy upon me.«*-I fuppofe I did nothing clfe for- 
two or three hours, till the fit wearing ofF, i fell afkep,, 
and did not awake till far ii^the night. When I( awaked^. 
I found myfelf much rcfreihed, but weak, and exceed* 
ingly thirfty ; however, as I had no water in my wholo. 
habitation, I was forced to lie till morning, and went 
to fleep again. In this ibcond fleep I had this terrible^ 
dream/ 

I. thought that I was fitting on the ground, on the 

outfide of my wall, where I fat when the florm blew 

after the earthquake^ and that I faw a man defcend from. 

z great black cloud,, in a bright flame of fire, and light 

upon the ground, t^e was all over as bright as a filame,. 

fo that I could but jufl bear to look, towards him ; his 

countenance was moii inexpreffibly dreadful, impoffible- 

f for words todefcribe; when he fteppcd upon the ground 

with his feet, i thought the earth trembled, juft as it had. 

done beibre in the earfhquaka^ and all the air looked,, 

to my. apprehcnfion,, a§ ilit had.beftu filled with flaflie*. 

offire>. 

He- wa» no fboi^er landed upon the eaith# but he 

JTJOKed j^uwards towards me, with a long fpcar or wea^- 

J?o^ j'n Jus^Mnd to killm&f, axi^Wic^V^CASM&toa. i 



RaBINSON CRUSOE. »j 

j»fing grouiid> at fome diflance, he fpoke to me, or I 
heard a voice {o terrible^ that it is impoflible to exprefs 
the terror of it; all. that lean fay 1 underHood, wafr^ 
this 4 Seeing all thefe things have not brought thee to re* 
pentance, now thou fhalt die. At whi ch words, X thought 
he lilted, up the fpear that was in his hand to kill me. 

No one that (hall ever read this account, will expe6b 
that I ikould be able to describe the horrors of my foul' 
at this terrible vifion ; I mean, that even vtdiile it was a, 
dream, i even dreamed of thofe horrors ;. nor is it any 
more poffible to defcriba the impreilion that remained 
upon my mind, when 1 awaked,, and found it was but a 
dream. 

I had, alas! no diyine^ knowledge ; what I had r<e*^ 
ceived by the good inilruflion of my father, was thea 
worn out by an uninterr^ted &rifis, for eight years of 
{i^-fiftcing wickedne(s, and a conftant conv^ation with 
none but fuck as were like myfelf, wicked and profane 
to the laft degree: I do not remember, thai I had in all 
that time one thought that fo much aa tended either tOi 
looking upwards towards God, or inwards towards a re- 
flexion upon my own ways ; but a certain flupidity of, 
ibul, without deiire of good, or confcience of evil, had 
Andrejy overwhelmed me, and I was all that the moil' 
hardened,, unthinking, wicked creature among oar com •- 
mon failors can be fuppofed to be, not having the leafl; 
6nfe of the fear of God in dangers, or of thankfulnef9 
to God in deliverances. 

In relating what is already paft of my ftory, thi$ 
will be the more eafily believed, when I Ihall add, tiiat. 
through ^1 the variety of miferies that had to this da/ 
lieiallen me, I never had fo much as one thought of its 
being the hand of God, or that it was a jufl punifhment 
fer my iins, my rebellious behavionr againA my father> 
«r my prefent (ins, which were great; oj fo much as a. 
juni&mcnt for the general- courfe of my. wicked life. 
When I was on the defperate expedition, on the dcfart. 
ftores of Africa, I never had fo much as one thought, 
•of what would become of me, or one wifb to God to» 
dired me whither i fli'ould go, or to keep me from the 
4anger which apparently, furrounded me, as well from. 



H ADVENTURES OF 

merely thoughtlefs of God, or a Providence ; I aded 

like a mere brate> from the principles of nature^ and by 

the di^btes of common fenfe only, and indeed hardly 

that. 

When I was delivered and taken ap at Tea by the Por- 
tugal captain> wellufed, and dealt juflly and honourably 
with, as well as charitably, I had not the leaft thankful- 
nefs in my thoughts : When again I was fhipwrecked* 
ruined, and in danger of drowning on this iiland, I was 
as far from remorfe, or looking on it as a judgment ; I 
only faid to my felf often, that I was an unfortunate dog» 
and bom to be always miferable. 

It is true, when I got on fhore £rll here, and found all 
my fhip*s crew drowned, and myfelf fpared, I was fur- 
prifed with a kind of extafy^ and feme tranfports of 
foul, which, had the grace of God affiled, might have 
came up to true thankfulnefs ; but it ended where it be« 
gan, in a mere common flight of joy ; or,. as I may fay, 
^^'iT^g glad I was alive, without the leaft refle£kion upon 
the diSnguiihing goodnefs of the hand which had pre- 
ferved me, and had iingled me out to be preferved, when 
all the reft were deftroyed ; or an inquiry why providence 
had been thus merciful to me ; even juft the fame common 
fort of joy which feamen generally have, after they have 
got fafe aihore from a fhipwreck, which they drown all 
in the ne:^t bowl (^f pusvch, and forget almoft as foon as 
it is over, and all the reft of my lite wa& like^it. 

Even when I was afterwards, oa due conflderation^ 
made fenfible of my condition, how I was caft on this 
dreadful place, out of the reach of human kind, put 
of all hope of relief, or profpe^ of redemption; as foon 
as I faw a probability of living, and that I ihould not 
Aarve and perilh for hunger, all the fenfe of my afflidtion 
wore off, and I began to be very eafy, applied myfelf ta 
the works prqper for my prefervation and fupply, and 
was far enough from being afHidied at my condition, as 
a judgment horn heaven, or as the hand of God againft 
me : Thefe were thoughts which very leldom entered 
into my head. 

The growing op of the com, as is hinted in my jour- 

J2al^ hdd at Btil iomt little influence upon me, and be-. 

£an to affect me with ferio#iei&, as \oug as I thoqgbl' 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. ^^ 

it had fomething miraculous in it ; but as {bon as ev^ 
that part of thought was removed, all tJic impreffioa 
which was raifed from it, wore off* alfo^ as I have noted 
already. 

Even the earthquake, tho* nothing could be more ter- 
rible in its nature, or more immediately diredting to the ^ 
invifible power, which alone diredsfuch things ; yet no 
fooner was the firft fright over, but the impremon it had 
made went oflF alfo. I had no more fenfe of God, or his 
judgment, much Icfs of the prefent afRiftion of mycir- 
cumHances being from his hand, than if I had been ia 
the moil profperous condition in life. 

But now when 1 began to be fick, and a leiTurely view 
of the miferies of death came to place itfelf belbre me ; 
when my fpirits began to fink under the burthen of a 
ilrong diftemper, and nature was exhaufled with the 
violence of the fever ; confcience, that had flept fo 
long, began to awake, and I began to reproach myfelf 
with my part life, in which I had fo evidently, by un- 
common wickednefs, provoked the juflice'of God to lay 
me under uncommon flrokes, and to deal with me in fa 
vindiftive a maT»ner. 

.Thefe refledlions opprefled me from the fecond or 
third day of my diftemper, and in a violence, as well 
of the fever, as of the dreadful reproaches of my con- 
fcience, extorted fome words from me, like praying t6 
God, tho' I cannot fay they were either a prayer attend- 
ed with defires> or with hopes ; it was rather the voice ' 
of mere fright and diftrefs ; my thoughts were confufed', 
the convidions great upon my mind, and the horror of 
dying infuch a miserable condition, raifed vapours into 
my head with the mere apprehenfions ; and, in thefe 
hurries of my foul, I kfSew not what my tongue might 
^xpfefe : But it was rather exclamation, fuch as. Lord I 
what a miferable creature am l\ U I (kould be fick, 1 
ihall certainly die for want of help, and what will be- 
come of me I Then the tears burft out of my eyes, and 
I could fay no more a good while. 

In this interval, the good advice of my father came to 
my mind, and prefently his prodidtion, which I mention- 
ed in the beginning Of this ftory,viz. That if 1 did take 
this fooliih ftep, God would uat bW^ TaR> ^'wi V^^x^^ 



; 



^ AD VENTURIS OF 

iiaveleifujFC hereafter to refleft upon hayii^g n(5g1c^d1ii8 
counfcl, when there might bp nortie to affift que in my re- 
covery. Now, faid I aloud, my dear father's words are 
come to pafs : God's julHce has overtaken me, and I 
have none to help or hear me. I rejeded tke voice of 
^ providence, which had mercifully put me in a pofture or 
ibation of life wherein I might have been happy and 
eafy ; but I would neither fjse it myfelf, nor iearn to. 
know the bleifing of it from my parents ; I left them to 
mourn over ipy folly, and now I am left to mourn under 
the confequences of it : I refufcd their help and aiCHance^ 
who would have lifted me into the world^ and would 
have made every thing eafy to me ; and now I have dif- 
ficulties to ilruggle with, too great for even nature itfelf 
to fuppprt, and no afliftanci?^ no l^elp, no comfort, no ad- 
vice. Then 1 cried out. Lord, be my help, &r I am in 
great dil]tcefs. 

This was the firft prayer, if I i^ight call it fo, that t 
^ad nwde for many years* But I return to my journal. 

June 28. Having been fomewhat refreftied with th^ 
ileep I had taken, and the fit being entirely ofF^ Igot up ;^ 
and thouglithe fright and terror of my dream was very 
great, yet 1 confidered, that th« fit of the ague would^ 
xeturn again the next day, and now was my time to. 

fet fomething to refxefh and fupport myfelf when I fhould, 
e ill ; and the firA thing I did, I filled a large fquarc 
cafe bottle with water, and fet it upon my table, in. 
reach of my bed ; and to take off the chili or aguiih. 
difpofition of the water, X put about a quarter of a. 
pint of rum into it^ and mixed them together ; then I 
gp; me a piece of the goat's flelh, and broiled it on the 
coaU,but could.cat very little j 1 walked about,. but was. 
x^x^ weak, and withal, very fad and heavy -hearted in 
the fenfe of my miferabie condition, dreading the return, 
of my diHemper the next day; at night I made my 
(upper of three of the turtle's eggs, ^Jiich Iroa/led 
in the afhes, ^nd eat, as we call it^. in the flieil ; and- 
this was the firfi bit of mearl had ever aik^d Gpd's 
blcfiing to» even, as X co»ild remember^ in my wholO; 

life. 
Aft^r 1 had eaitcn^ I tried to walk, but found myfelf fii; 
ftccak, that Z cou/d liardl]f carry tiofi. guu ^foc Lae v«r, vqsi^ 



RQBIKSON CRirSOE. Sf 

•1^ without that) fo I went out bat a little way^ and 
fkt down upon the ground, looking out upon the fea^ 
which was jufl before me, and very calm and.fmooth* 
Aa 1 &t here, fbme Noughts, fuch as thefe, occurred 
to me. 

Wha.t is the eai th and fea, of which I hav« feen fa 
much ? Whence is it produced I And what am I, and 
all the other creatUFea> wild and tame> human and bru-^ 
tal, whence are we ? 

Sure we are all made by fome fecret powtr, wha 
formed the earth and fea^ the air and &y ^ and who is 
that? 

Then it followed^ moft naturally ; It t$ God that haa 
made it all : wdl^ but then it came on llnoogly ; if God 
has made aU tl^efe thii^gs^ be guides and goveimf them 
ail, and all things thax concern them ; Ibr die Being 
that could vMkt allithipgSt mnfi certai^y have power 
to guide and. direft them. ' ^ 

U (o, nothing can. happen in the great citcnit of hia 
works, either withont hia knowledge or appointment. 

And if nothing happens wuhont his knowledge/ he 
knpvys that I am, here» and, in a dreadful condition ;; 
and if nothings happens without his appointment, he has 
appointed aji this t(^ bcfal me* 

Nothing occurred to my thoughts to colitradi^l anjr 
of thefe concluiipns. i and therefore it refted upon me 
with the greater force, that it muft needs be« that God 
had appointed ali this to befal me ; that I was brought 
to this miferabie circumiiance. by Kis difedkion, he 
having the fole poiyer, not of me. only, but of every 
thing that happened in the world. Immediately it foU 
lowed. 

V{hy haa God done this to me? What have I done to 
he thus ufed i 

My conlcicnce prefently chedced me in that inquiry* 
as if I had blafphemed ; and methought it fpoke to me 
like a voice ; Wretch! doft thou aik what thou haft done? 
look b^ck bpon a dreadful mif fpent his and alk thy^ 
felf, what thou haft not done ? Aflc, why is it that thou, 
wert not long ago deftroyed ? Why wert thou not drown- 
ed 'in Yarmouth Roads? Killed in the %ht when the 
ihip was taken by the^ Sailee majn of waci Devoured. 



i 



90 ADVENTURES OF' 

by the wild beads of the coaft of Africa ? Or, drowned 
here, when all the crew perifhed but thyfelf ? Doll thou 
afk. What have I done I 

I was ftruck dumb with thefe refle6Uons as one afto- 
nilhed, and had not a word to fay, no, not to anfwer ta 
myfelf ; but rofe up penfive and fad, walked back to my 
retreat, and went up over my wall, as if I had been go- 
ing to bed ; birt my thoughts were fadly difturbed, and 
I had no inclination to ileep ; fo I fat down in my chair> 
and lighted my lamp, for it began to be dark. Now, as 
the apprckenfions of the return of my diftemper terrified 
me very much, it occured to my thought, that the Bra- 
fillians take no phyfic but their tobacco, for almoft all 
diftempers ; and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco inonc^ 
of the chefts, which was quite cured, and fome aUb that 
was green, and not quite cured. 

I went, direfted by heaven, no doubt I for in thi» 
cheft I found a cure both for foul and body ; I opened 
the cheft, and found what I looked for, vi2. the to- 
bacco ; and as the few books 1 had faved Jay there too^ 
I took out one of the bibles which I mentioned before,^ 
and which, to this time, 1 had not found leifure, or f(» 
much as inclination, to look into ; I fay I took it out,. 
and brought both that and the tobacco with me to the 
table. 

What ufe to make of the tobacco I knew not, as to 
my diilemper, or whether it was good for it or no ; but 
I tried feveral experiments with it, as if I was refolved 
it fhould hit one way or other. I firft took a piece of a 
leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, which indeed at firft 
almoft ftupified my brain, the tobacco being green and 
ftrong, and that I had not been much ufed to it ; then I 
took fome, and fteeped it an hour or two in ram, and re- 
folved to take a dofe of it when I lay down ; and laftly, 
J burnt fome upon a pan of coals, and held my nofe clofe 
over the fmoke of it, as long as I could bear it, as well 
for the heat as the virtue of it, and I held almoft to fuf- 
fbcation. 

In the interval of this operation, I took up the Bible, 
and began to read ; but my head was too much difturb- 
ed tvith the tobacco to bear reading, at leaft at that 
time, ao7/ Jiaviflg opened the bodk caCuallyt die &tk^ 

\ 

\ 
i 



ROBI^NS ON CRUSOE. 91 

wcrds that occured to me were thefe, Call on me in the 
day of trouble i and 1 njoill deliver , and ihou jha't gUrify me* 

The words were very apt to my caie, and made iome 
impreflion upon my thoughts at the time of reading 
them, thou£h not fo much as they did afterwards ; for 
as for being delivered, the word had no found, as I may 
fay, to me ; the thing was fo remote, fo impoffible in 
my apprehension of things, that I began to fay, as the 
children of Ifrael did, when they were promifed flefli to 
eat, Can God/pread a falls in the wider ne/s /* So I began 
to fay, can God himfelf deliver me from this place f 
^nd as it was not for many years that any hope ap* 
peared, this prevailed very often upon my thoughts ; 
but however, the words made a very great impreflion 
•upon me, and I mufed upon them very often. It grew 
now late, and the tobacco had, as I faid, dozed my head 
•fo much* that I inclined to deep ; fo I left my lamp 
burning in the cave, left I (hould want any thing in the 
night, and. went to bed ; but tefore I lay down, I did 
what I never had done in all my life ; 1 kneeled down 
and prayed to God to fulfil the promife to me, that if 1 
called upon him in the day of trouble, he would deliver 
me : after my broken and imperfedt prayer was over, I 
drank the rum in which I had fteeped the tobaccd, 
which was fo ilrong and rank of the tobacco, that in- 
deed I could fcarce get it down. Immediately upon this 
I went to bed, and I found prcfcntly it flew np into mjr 
*head violently ; but I fell into a found ileep, and waked 
no more, till by the fun it muft neceifarily be near three 
o'clock in the afternoon the next day ; nay, to this hour 
I am partly of the opinion, that I flept all the next day 
and night, and till almoil thre« the day after ; for 
otherwife I knew not how I ihould lofe a day out of my 
reckoning in the days of the week, as it appeared fome 
years after I had done ; ibr if I had lofl it by crofiing 
and re-croiiing the line, I fhould have loH more than a^ 
day ; but in my account, it was loftj and 1 never knew 
' which way. 

Be that however one way or other, when I awaked, 
I found myfelf exceedingly refre(hed, and my fpirits 
lively and chearful ; when I got up, I was ilronger than 
I was the day before, and my ftomach better \ for I 



was hungry.; and, in fhort, I had no fit the rext day^ 
. but continued much altered for the bettei: : this was the 
29th*. 

The 3otliwa8 my well day o£ courft, and t went 
abroad with my gun, but did not care to travel too* 
far: I killed a fea fowl or two, fomething like a brand 
go^ofe, and brought them home, but was not very for^^ 
ward to eat them : fo I eat fome more of the turtlc'» 
^ggs> which were very good: this evening I renewed 
thJ^ medicine which I had Cappofed did me good the 
day before, viz. the tobacco fteeped in rum.; only I 
did not take fo much as be^re, nor did I chew any of 
the leaf, or hold my head over the fmoke ; however^ £ 
was not (b well the next day, which was the ift of July, 
as I hopf d I ihould have beea ; £6t I had a little /pice o£ 
the cold fit, but it was not much* 

July 2. I renewed the tnedidne all the three wayit 
ftjod dozed myielf with it at firft^ and doubled the qoan* 
tity which 1 drank. 

^ July 5d. I mifled the fit fyr good and all^ though I 
did not r^GOV^r my full ftrength fi>r (osn& weeks after*. 
While I was thus gathering ftrength, my thoughts ratt 
exceedingly upon this fcripture, f will deliver thee; and 
the impoiIif)iHty of my deliverance lay much upon my 
mind, in bar of my eyer expediing it : but as I was dif- 
couraging myfelf wi.th fi^ thoughts, it occurred to my 
jnind, tha^ I por^d fo much upon my deliverance £roi!ri 
the main afHidion, that I difregarded the deliverance I 
had received i and I was, as it were, made to aik my* 
felffuch queftions as thefe ; viz. have I not been deli« 
vered, and wonderfully too, from ficknefs? from the^ 
moil diflrelTed condition that could be, and chat was fo 
frightful to m£ ? and what notice had I taken of it ? had 
I done my part f God had delivered me : but I had not 
glorified him ; that is to fs^y, I had not owned and been, 
thankful fpr that as a deliverance ; and how could ! ex* 
peft greater deliverance? 

This touched my heart very much, and immediately 
I kneeled down, and gave God dianks aloud, for mf 
recovery from my iicknefs. 

July 4* In. the morning I took the Bible ; and, hc^ 
gimiihg^ the Ne^w Teftamen^, I began ferioufly to reai| 



h, and impofed upon myfelf to read a while every 
<»orning and every night, not tying myfelf to the num- 
ber of chapters, but as long as my^houghts Ihould en- 
gage me : it was not Jong after I fet fcriou/Iy to this 
work, but I found my heart inore deeply «nd iincerely 
afFcfled with the wickednefs of my pafl life; the im- 
preflion of my dream revived, and the words, Ji/ theft 
ihings ha*U€ not brbu^ht thee ta rtfnntance, ran ferioufly in , 
my thoughts : I was earneftly begging of God to give 
me repentance, when it happened providentially the 
very day, that, teadlng the Icrif aire, I came to thefc 
•words. He is exalted M Prince ^ and a Samour, to ghve rt^ 
^entttttce, and to give remijjion: I threw down the book, 
4indwith my heart as well as my hand lifted up xsi hea- 
ven, inr a kind of extacy of joy, I cried out aloud, jelus, 
•thou Son of David ; Jeiusl thou exalted Prince and 
'Saviourl give me repentance. 

This was the firft time that I could fay in the true 
fenfeof the words, that I prayed in all my life; for now 
I prayed with a tenfe of my condition, and with a tiue 
^icripture view of hope, founded on the encouragement 
■of the w6rd of God ; and from this time, 1 may fay, I 
began to have hope that God would hear me. 

Now I began to conftrue the words mentioned above, 
"Ctall on met ttnd J 'wiii Jeli'ver ^hee, in a different fenfe 
from what I had ever done before^ for then I had no no- 
-tion of any thing being called deliverance, but my be- 
ing delivered from the captivity I wais in ; for though I 
was indeed at large in the place, yet the ifland was cer- 
tainly a prifon to me, and that in the woril fenfe in the 
;world ; but now I learned to take it in another fenfe. 
Now I looked back upon my paft life with fuch horror, 
iand my fins appeared fo dreadful, that my foul fought 
nothing of God, but deliverance from the load of guilt 
that bore down all my comfort. As for my folitary life, 
it was nothing ; 1 did not fo much as pray to be deli- 
vered from it, or think of it ; it was all of no confidera- 
tion in comparifon of this ; and I add^ this part here» 
to hint to whoever (hall read it, than whenever they ' 
cometoa true fenfe of things , they will find deliverance 
fi-oih fm a much greater bleilingf than deliverance fronl 
affliftioiu 



9^ ADVENTURES OP 

But leaving this part I return to my journal. 

My condition began novir to be, though not lefs mi- 
ferable as to my way of living, yet much eafier to my 
mind ; and my thoughts being direded, by a conflanc 
reading the fcripture, and praying to God, to things ot 
a higher nature, I had a great deal of comfort within, 
which till now I knew nothing of: alfo as my health and 
ftrength returned, I belHrred myfelf to turnifh myfelf 
with every thing thatJ wanted, and make my way of 
living as regujar as I could. 

Froni the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly em- 
ployed in walking about with my gun in my hand a little 
and a little at a time, as a man that was gathearinc; up hisv 
ftrength after a fit of Acknefs ; for it is hardly tobe ima- 
gined, how low I was, and to what weaknefs I was re- 
duced. The application which I made ufe of, was per» 
feftly new, and perhaps what had never cured an ague be- 
fore ; neither can I recommend it to any one to prafiife 
by this experiment ; and though it did carry off the fit, 
yet it ratlicr contributed to weaken me; for I had fre- 
quent convulfions in my nerves and limbs forfome time* 

I learnt from it alfo this in particular, that being 
abroad in the rainy feafon was the moll pernicious thing 
to my health that could bei, efpecially in (iiofe rains 
which came attended with ^orms and hurricanes of 
wind ; for as the rain which came in a dry feafon was 
always mod accompanied with fuch ftorms, fo I found 
this rain was much more dangerous than the rain which 
fell in September and Oftober. 

I had been now in this unhappy idand above ten 
months; all poflibility of deliverance from this condi-> 
tion feemed to be entirely taken from me, and I firmly 
believed, that no human (hape had ever fet foot upon 
that place. Having now fecured my habitation, as I 
thought,' fully to my mind, I had a great dcfirc to 
make a more p^rfedl difcovery of the ifland, and to fee 
what other pruliidions I might find, which yet I knew 
nothing of 

It was the 15th of July that I began to take a more 
■particular furvey of the ifland itfelf ; 1 went up the 

creek' 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 95 

.creek firft, where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts on 
fiiorc. 1 toand, after I came about two m es up, that 
the tide did not flow any higher, and that it was no more 
than a little brook of running, water, and very frefh and 
good ; but this being the dry feafon, there was hardly 
*any water in fome parts of it, at leailnot enough to run 
into any flream, fo as it could be perceived. 

^n the bank of this brook I found many pfeafant 
favannas or meadows, plain, fmooth, and covered with 
grafs ; and on the rifing parts of them next^to the 
- higher grounds, where the water, as it might be fup- 
pofed, never overflowed, I found a great deal of to* 
bacco, green, and growing to a great and very ilrong 
Aalk : there were divers other plants which I had no 
notion of, or underflanding about ; and might per-> 
haps have virtues of their own, which I could not find 
out. 

I fearched for the caflava root, which the indians 
in all that climate make their bread <^, but I could 
find none. I faw large plants of aloes, but did not 
then under/land them : I faw fevcral fugar canes, but 
wild, and, for want of .cultivation, imperfed. I con- 
tented myfelf with thefe difcoveries . for this time, and 
came back, mufing with myfelf what courfe 1 might 
take to know the virtue and goodnefs of any of .the 
fruits or plants which I fhould difcover, but could 
bring it to no conclufion ; for, in ihort, I had made fo 
little obfervation while I was in the Brafils, that I 
knew little of the plants of the. field, at Icaft verv 
little that might ferve me to any purpofe, now in niy 
dillrefs. 

The next day, the i6ch, I went up the fame way 
again j and, after going fomething farther than I Jad 
done the day before, 1 found the brook and the favan- 
.na's began to ccafe, and the country became more 
woody than before. In this part I found different fruits, 
and particularly I found melons upon the ground in 
great abundance, and grapes upon the trees ; the 
vines had fpread indeed over the trees, and the cluf- 
ters of grapes were jjuft now in their prime, ycry 
ripe and rich. This was a furprifing difcovery, and I 
was exceeding glad of them, but I was wariied by 

my 



96 ADVENTURES OF 

jny experience to, cat fparingly of them, ^member ingt 
that when I was afkore in Barbary, the eatog of grape*, 
killed fevcral of our Eng^ifhraen who were£aves there, 
hy throwing them into fluxes and fevers : but I found an 
excellent ufe for thefc grapes, and that was to cure or 
dry them in the fun, and keep them as dryed grapes or* 
raifins are kept, which I thought would be, as indeed 
they were, as wholefome, and as agreeable to eat, w#ca 
no grapes might be had, 

1 fpent all that evening there, and went not back to 
my habitation, which by the w^y was the iirll night, as # 
I might fay, I had lain from home. In the night I took 
my iirfl contrivance, and got up into a tree, where I 
flept well, and the next morning proceeded upon my dif- 
covery, travelling near four miles, as I might judge by 
the length o£ the valley, keeping ilill due north, witli^ 
ridge of hills on the fouth and north fide of me. 

At the end of this march I came to an opening, where 
the country fcemed to defcend to the well ; and a little 
fpring of freflfi water, which iflued out of the fide of • 
th« hill by me, ran the other way, that is, due eaft ; and 
the country appeared fo frefti, lb green, fo flourilhing, 
every thing being in a conftant verdure, or flouriih of 
^ring> that it looked like a planted garden. 

I defcended a little on the fide of that d^icious valley, 
furveying it with a fecret kind of pleafure (though 
mixed with other afEifting thoughts) to think that this 
was all my own, that 1 was king and lord of all this 
country indefeafibly, and had a right of pofleffion ; and 
if I could convey it, I might have it in inheritance, as 
completely as any lord of a manor in England. I faw 
here abundance of cocoa-trees, orange and lemon, and 
citron-trees; but all wild, and few bearing any fruity 
at lead, not then: however, the* green limes that I ga- 
thered, were not only pleafant to cat, but very whole- 
.fome ; and I mixed their jtiice afterwards with water, 
winch made it very wholcSfome, and very cool and re- 
frelhing. 

I found now 1 had bufincfs enough, to gather and carry 
home ; and refolved to lay up a ftore, as well of grapes, 
as limes and lemons, to furniihmyfelf for the wet feafon, 
w/iich I knew was approaching, 

\ 



ROBINSON CHUSOE. ^7 

In order to do this, I gatkered a great heap of grapes 
in one place, and a lefier heap in another place, and ^ 
great parcel of limes and lemons in another place ; and 
taking a few of each with me, I travelled homeward, 
and refoived to come again, and bring a bag or fack, or 
what I could make, to carry the reft home. 

Accordingly, having fpent three days in this journey, 
1 came ' home (fo 1 muil now call my tent> and my 
cave ;) but before I got thither, the grapes were fpoil^d > 
the richncfs of the fruit, and the weight of the juice, 
having broken them» and bruiied them, they were good 
for little or nothing ; as to the limes, they were good> 
but I could bring but a few. 

The next day, being the i^th, I went back, having 
made me two fmall bags to bring home my harvelt : But 
I was iurprifed, when coming to my heap of gr^es, 
which were fo rich and fine when I gathered them, X 
' found them all fpread abroad, trod to pi^es, and drag- 
ged about, fome here, fome there, and abundance -eaten 
and devoured : By this I concluded there were fome 
wild creatures thereabouts, which bad done this ; but 
what they were I knew not. 

However, as I found there was no laying them up on 
heaps, and no carrying them away in a fade, h\it that 
one way they would be delboyed, and the other way they 
would be cruihed with their own weight, I took another 
coHrfe ; fpr I gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and 
hung them upon the out branches of the trees, that they 
might cure and dry in the fun ; and as for the limes and 
lemons,! carried as i^any back as I could well (land under^ 
When I came home from this journey, I contemplated 
with great pleafure the fruitful nefs of that valley, and 
the pleafantnefs of the fituation, the fecurity frosn ftorms 
on that fide of the water, and the wood ; and con- 
cluded that I had pitched upon a phice to Ex my abode» 
which was by far the worfl part of the country. Upon 
the whole, I beean to coniiaer of removing my habita* 
<ion, an^d to look out for a place equally ^e ^s where 
I now was fituate, if poffible> in tkat ple^ant fi-uitful 
part of the ifland. 

This thouc^ht ran long in my head, and I was ex« 
ceeding fond of it for fome time, the pleafantnefs of the 
Vol. I. 't '^'a.'y^ 



SS ADVENTURES OF 

place tempting me ; but when I came to a nearer vi^w 
of it> and to confider that I was now by the Tea fide, 
where it was at leaft poffible, that fome thing might hap- 
pen to my advantage, and that the fame ill late that 
brought me hither^ might bring fome other unhappy 
wretches to the fame place ; and though it was icarce 
probable, that any fuch thing fhould ever happen, yet 
to inclofe myfelf among the hills and woods, in the cpn-' 
tre of the ifland, was to anticipate my bondage, and to 
render fuch an affair not only improbable, but impofiible ; 
and that therefore I ought not by any means to remove. 
However> I was fo enamoured with this place, that I 
(pent much of my time thc*e for the whole remaining 
part of the month of July ; and though, upon fecond 
thoughts I refolved as above, not to remove ; yet I built 
me a little kind of a bower, and furrounded it at a dif<« • 
tance with a ftrong fence, being a double hedge, as high 
as I could reach, well ftaked and filled between with 
brulhwood ; and here I lay yery fecure, iometimes^two or 
three nights together, always going over it with a lad- 
der, as before ; fo that I fancied now I had my country- 
houie, and my fea coafl-houfe: and this work took me 
ttp to the beginning of Auguft« 

I had but newly finiihed my fence, and began to enjoy 
xny labour, but the rains came on, and made me flick 
clofe to my firfl habitation; for though I had mad^ me a 
tent like the*other, with a piece of a fail, and fpread it 
very well, yet I had not the fheher of an hill to keep me 
from florms, nor a cave behind me to retreat into when 
the rains were extraordinary. 

• About the beginning of Auguft, as I faid, I had iinifh- 
€d njiy bower, and began to enjoy myfelf. The third of 
Auguft I found the grapes I had hung up were perfedlly 
"dried, and indeed were excellent good raifins of the 
<fun ; fo I began to take them down from the trees, and 
' it was very happy that I did fo, for the rains which fol- 
lowed would have fpoiled them, and I had Ipft the befl 
part of my win.ter food ; for I had above two hundred 
large bunches, of them. No fooner had I taken them 
all down, and carried moft of them .home to my cave, 
but it began to rain ; and from thence, which was 
zJie ^urteenth oi Auguft, it rained vfox^ or lefs every 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 99. 

^ay, till the middle ofOdtober ; aad fometimes fo vio- 
lently, tliat I could not ftir out of my cave for feverat 
days. 

In this feafon I was much furprifed with the increafe 
of my family : I had been concerned for the lofs of one 
of my cats, who ran away from me, or, as I thought, 
had been dead 5 and I heard no more talc or tidings of 
her, till to my aflonifhment fhe came home about the 
end of Auguft, with three kittens. This was the more 
ftrange to me, becaufe tho* I had killed a wild cat, as I 
called it, with my gun, yer I thought it was a quite dif- 
ferent kind from our European cats ; yet the young cats 
were the fame kind of houfe breed like theoldpne ; and 
both my cats being females, 1 thought it Very ftrange : 
But from thefe three cats, I afterwards came to be fo 
peHered with cats, that I was forced to kill them like 
vermin, or wild beails, and to drive them from my houfe 
as much as poflible. 

From the fourteenth of Auguft to the twenty-iixth, 
incelTant rain, fb that I could not Hir, and was now 
very careful not to be much wet. In this confinement I 
began to be ftreightened for food, but venturing Out 
twice, I one day killed a goat; and thelaft day, which 
V^as the twenty-fixth, found a very large tortoife, which 
was a treat to me, and my food was regulated thus : I 
eat a bunch of raifins for my breakfail, a piece of the 
goat's flelh, or of the turtle, for my dinner, broiled 
(for to my great misfortune I had no veflel to boil or flew 
an)*thing;) and twoor three of the turtle's eggs for fupper. 
During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I 
worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave jl 
and, by degrees, worked it on towards one fide, till I 
came to the outfide of the hill, and made a door or way 
out, which came beyond my fence or wall ; and fo I 
came in and out this way : but I was not perfedly eafy 
;^t lying fo open ; for as I had managed my felf before, I 
was in a per reft inclofure, whereas now I thought I lay 
expofed ; and yet I could not perceive, that there was 
any living thing to fear, the biggeft creature that I had 
yet feeq upon the ifland, being a goat. 

September the thirtieth, I was now come to the unhap- 
py ann i verfary of my landi ng : I caft u^ thft wit<d\<5.^ <2iJ^ 



n^^"^^"^ 



wm ADVEI^TCRES Of 

my poft, and found I had been on (here three hundred 
and fixty-live days. I. kept this day as a folemn faft, 
letting it apart to a religion^ exercife, proftrating myfelf 
to the groond with the moil ferious humiliation, con felT- 
ing myfelf to God, acknowledging his righteous judg- 
ment upon n»€, and praying to him to have mercy on me, 
through Jeftts Chrift; and having not tailed the lead re- 
fpeihment for twelve hours, even till the going down of 
the fun, I then eat a bifcuit-cake,and>« bunch of grapes,' 
and went to bed, finifliing the day as I began it. 

I had all this ti«ie obferved no &bbath*day ; for as at 
firft I had no fenfe of religion upon my mind, T had after 
ibme time omitted todiftinguifh the weeks, by making a 
longer notch than ordinary for the fabbath-day , and fo 
did not really know what any of the days were ; but 
BOW having caft up the days as above, I found I had 
been there a year ;. fo I divided it into weeks, and fet 
apart every feventh day foy a fabbath ; though I found 
at the end of my account, I had loH a day or two of my 
reckoning. 

A litt£ after this my ink began to fail me, and fb I 
contented myfelf to ufe it more fparingly, and to writ^^ 
down only the moft remarkable events of my life, with- 
out continuing a daily memorandum of other things. 

The rainy feafon, and the dry feafon, began now to 
appear regular to me, and I learned to divide them fo as 
to provide for them accordingly. But I bought all my ex- 
perience before I had it ; and this I am going to relate, 
was one of the moil difcouraging experiments that T made 
at all . I have men • ioned, that I had faved the few ears of 
barley and rice which I had fo furpri^ngly found fpring 
up, as I thought of themfelves, and believe there were 
about thirty flalks of rice, and about twenty of.barle)^; 
and now I thought it a proper time* to low it after the 
rains, the fun being in its (blither n poiition going from me. 

Accordingly I dug up a piece of ground, as well as I* 
could, with my wooden fpade^ and dividing it into two 
parts,! fowed my grain ; but as I was fowing, it cafually 
occurred to my thoughts, that I would not fow it all at 
firll, becaufc I did not know when was the proper time 
fork; fo I fowed about two thirds of the feeds, leaving 
a^c aa JxaadM of eacb« 



ROBINSON CRUSaE. loi 

It was a great ccHttfort to me afterwards, that I ditl (o, 
for nut one grain (^that I fowcd this time came to any 
thing; for the dry months following, the earth having 
had no rain after the feed was ibwn, it had no moiilure 
to aflift its growth, and never came up at all, till the 
wet feafon had come again, and then it grew as if it had 
been newly Town. 

Finding my firftfeed did not grow, which I eafily 
imagined was by the droyght, I fought for a moifter 
piece of ground to make another trial in ; and I dug up . 
a piece of ground near my new bower, and fowed the reft 
of my feed in February, a little before the vernal equi- 
nox ; and this, having the rainy months of March and 
April to water it, fprung np very pleaiantly, and yielded 
a very good crop ; but having part of the feed left only, 
and not daring to fow all that I had yet, I had but a 
fmall quantity at laft, my whole crop not amounting to 
above half a peck of each kind. 

But by this experience I was made malter of my bufi- 
nefs, and knew exaftly when the proper feafon was to 
(bw ; and that I might expedl twd feed times^ and two 
harvefts every year. 

While this corn was growing, I made a little difco- 
very, which was of ufe to me afterwards : As foon as 
the rains were over, and the weather began Iq fettle, 
which was about the month of November, I made a 
vifit up the country to my bower, where, tho' I had not 
been lome months, yet I found all things }uil as I left 
them. The circle or double hedge that I had made, 
was not only firm and entire, but the flakes which! had 
cut off of fome trees that grew thereabouts, were all.fhot 
out, and grown with long branches, as much as a wil- 
low tree ufually fhoots the firfl year after lopping its 
, head. I could not tell what tree to call it, that thefe 
flakes were cut from. I was furprifed, and yet very well 
pleafed, to fee the young trees grow ; and I pruned them, 
and led them up to grow as much alike as I could $ and 
it is fcarce credible, how beautiful a figure they grew into 
in three years ; fo that though the hedge made a circle of 
about twenty-five yards in diameter, yet the trees, for 
fuch I might now call tkem,foon covered it; and it was a 
cpmpleat ihade/ufiicient to lodes u^vd^c ^U.^]^&4ri^>£ss^- 



iM ADVENTURES OF 

This made me refolve to cat (bme more flakes « andl 
make me an hedge like this in a femicircle round nty 
wall, I mean that of my firft dwelling, which I did ; 
and, placing the trees or ftakes in a double row, at above 
eight yards diftance from my firft fence, they grew pre- 
fently, and were at firft a fine caver to my habitation^ 
and afterwards ferved for a defence alfo, as I ftiall ob- 
ferve in its order. 

I found now^ that the feafbus of the year might ge- 
nerally be divided, not into fummer and winter, as in 
Europe ; but into the rainy feafons, and the dry feafons> 
which were generally thus ; 

^^^^ ^^Ma^ch' 1 Ra^"/' t^<^ ^"^ ^«i»g ^^^^ °"* ^^ "^*^' 
HalfA^ilii : the equinox. 
Half April, -J 

May, /£)ry, the fun being then to the nortk 

HalfAuguft,J 
HalfAuguft,-) 

Gcptember, J«Rain, the fan being then come back. ^ 
HalfOaober,3 
Half Odiober, "j 
• November, l^ ^j^^ ^^^ ^^^ jj^^^ ^ ^hg fou^h 
December,! ^' of the line. 



of the line. 
Half February, 



January, i 



The rainy feafon fometimes held longer or fhorter, as 
the winds happened to blow; but this was the general 
obfervation I made. After I had found, by experience, 
the ill confequence of being abroad in the rain, 1 took 
care tofumifti myfelf with provifions beforehand, that I 
might not- be obliged to go out ; and I fat within^ doors 
as much as poffible during the wet months. 

In this time I found much employment (and very 

fuitable alfo to the time) for I found great occafion 

of many things which I had ho way to furnifti my- 

feJf With, but by hard labour, and conftant applica- 

aaa/ pardcuJarly, I tried many yiV]% to m.ake myfeif 



ROBINSON CRtrSOE. roj 

a bafket ; but all the twigs J could get for the purpose 
proved fo brittle, that they would do nothing. It proved 
of excellient advantage to me now, that when ( was a 
hoy, 1 ufed to take great delight in (binding at a baiket- 
maker's in the town where my father lived, t6 fee thcni 
make their wicker-ware; and being, as boys ufually are» 
very officious to help, and a great obferver of the man- 
ner how they worked thofe things, and fometimes lent 
an hand, I had by this means fo full knowledge of the 
methods of it, that I wanted nothing but the materials; 
when it came into my mind, that the twigs of that tree 
from whence I cut my flakes that grew, might poffibly 
be as tough as the fallows, and willows, ando&ers, in 
England ; and I refolved to try. 

Accordingly next day I went to my country- 
Koufe, as I called it, and cutting fome of the fmaller 
twigs, I found them to my purpofe as much as I could 
defire ; whereupon I came thei next time prepared with 
ajaji^atchet to cut down a quantity, which I ioon found, 
for there was a great plenty of them : thefe I fet up to 
dry within my circle or hedges ; and when they were 
fit for ufc, I carried them to my cave ; and here during 
the next feafon I employed mylelf in making (as well 
as I could) a great many baikets, both to carry earth, 
or to carry or lay up any thing, as I had occafion ; and 
though Iidid not finilh them very handfomcly, yet I 
made them fufliciently ferviceable for my purpofe ; and 
thus afterwards I took care never to be without them ; 
and as my wicker -ware decayed , I« made more; efpe- 
cially I made ftrong deep baikets to place my corn in, 
inHead of facks, when 1 ihould come to have any quan- 
tity of it. 

Having maftered this difficulty, and employed a 
world of tinie about it, I beftirred tfiyfelf to fee, if pof- 
fible, how to fuppiy two wants. I had no v^iTels to 
hold any thing that was Irqaid, except two rundletS, 
which were almoft full of rum, and fome glafs bottles, 
fome of the common fize, and others which weJre cafe- 
bottles^ fquare, for the holding of waters, fpirits, &C. 
I had not fo much as a pot to boil any thing in, except 
a^ great kettle which I faved out of the (hip, and which 
was too big for fuch ufes as t defiredit for, viz. to 



1 



104. ADVENTURES OF- 

make broth., and ftew a bit of meat by itfelf. The fc- 
cond thing 1 would fain have had, was a tobacco pipe* 
but it was impofliblefor me to make one; however,! 
found a contrivance for that too at lad. 

I employed myfelf in planting my fecond rows of 

. flakes of piles, and in this wicker work> all the fummer, 
or dry feafon ; when another bufmefs took me up more 
time than it cQuld be imagined I could fpare. 

I mentioned before, that I had a great mind to fee the 
whole ifland, and that I had travelled i>p the brook, and 
fo on to where I built my bower, and where I had an 
opening quite to the fea, on the other fide of the ifland. 
I now refolved to travel quite acrofs to the fea fhore on 
that lide : So taking my gun, and hatchet, and my dog, 
and a larger quantity of powder and fhot than ufual, 
with two bifcuit-cakes, and a great bunch of raiftns in 
my pouch, for my flore, I began my journey. When I 
had paffed the vale where my bower flood, as above,. I 
came within view of the Tea, to the wefl ; and it bein^n 
very clear day, I fairly defcried land, whether an ifland 
or continent, I could not tell, but it lay very high, ex- 
tending from the wcfl, to the W. S, W. at a very great 
difiance ; by my guefs it could not be lefs than fikeen or 
twenty leagues oft". 

1 could not tell what part of the world this might be, 
otherwife than that 1 knew it mufl be part of America; 
and, ss 1 concluded by all my obfervations, muft be near 
the Spanifh dominions, and perhaps was all inhabited 
by favages, where if I fhould have landed, I had been 
in a worfe condition than I was now; and therefore lac- 
quiefced in the difpofitions of providence, which I began 
now to own, and to believe, ordered every thing for the 
beft; I fay, I quieted my mind with this, and left 
a^^ng myfelf with fruitlefs wifhes of being there. 

Befides, after fome paufe upon this affair, I conildered, 
that if^this land was the Spanifh coafl, I fhould certainly^ 
one time or other, fee iome veffels pafs or repafs one 

. way or other ; but if not, then it was the favage coafl 
between the Spanifh cbuntry and Brafil, wiiich were in- 
deed the worft of favages ; for they are. cannibals, or 
^men eaters, and fail not to murder and devoor all the 

Aumaa bodies thsx iall into their hands. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 105 

' With thefe confiderations I walked very leifurely for- 
yrard, I found that fide of the ifland wherg I now waa 
Biuch pleafanter than mine, the open or favunna Aelda 
Cweet, adorned with flowers and grafs, and full of very 
£ne woods. I iaw abundance of parrots^ and fain woald 
I have caught one> if poffible, to have kept it to be tame, 
and taught it to fpeak to me. I did, after fome pain5« 
laking, catch a young parrot;^ for I knocked it down 
with a dick, and having recovered it, brought it home,, 
but it was fome yea^rs before I could make him fpeak.—' 
However, at laft 1 taught him to call me by my name 
very^miliarlyj but the accident thax fiofUowed* tho' it 
be a f rifle^ wiVL be very diverting in its place. 
• I was exceedingly diverted with this journey : I foundl 
in th^ low grounds, hares as I thought them to be» 
and fox^, but they differed greitly from all the other 
l^inds I had met «(ith ; nor could I^ iatisfy my&lf to eat 
^hem, tbo' X killed feveral ; but i had no need to b« 
yenturousx for I had no want of food, and of that which 
was very good too; efpecially thefe three forts, viz. 
goats, pigeons x and tertle or tortoife^ >vhii:h, added ta 
Aiy g;rapes, L;eade n hall -market i;ouki not have furni (bed 
a better table than I, in proportion to the company.-— r 
And though my cafe was deplorable enough, yet I had 
great Gai& for thaukfulne^, that I was not driven ta 
any extremities for food ; but rather plenty, evpn tQ> 
dainties. 

I never tr^v^Jled in t^i^ Journey' above two milt^ 
outright in a (day, or thereabouts; but I took fo many 
turns and returns to fee what difcoveries I could make, 
^hat I cfim< weary enough to the place where I uefplved 
;to fit down for all. night; ;c and th^ either reipofed my- 
felf in a tree* or fivrounded: myfelf wi^ a row'of ftak5?e 
jfet upright in tjie ground, either from one tjree to ano/- 
i^her, or fo ass AowiJd creature could coip^ at jpj?.wi.thpii* 
waking m^^ 

As Toon as I came fio tile Iba fhore,. I wa« fk-Fprifed, to. 
fee than I had tiakcn up my lot on. the worfl. fide of the-, 
ifland ; for here indeed sthe fliore. was covered with in- 
numerable turtles, whereas on. the ^.^her fide t had 
found but three in a yeajc and a half. Here was alfo aoi 
inAnite number of fowls of many kinds, fome of whjght 



^ 



io5 ADVENTURES OP 

I had not feen before, and many of them very good 
meat ; . but fach a6 I knew not the names of^ except 
thote called jpenguins. 

I could have &ot as many as I p1eafed> but was very 
(paring ot my powder and (hot ; and therefore had more 
mind to kill a fhe>goat> if I could> which I could better 
feed on ; and though there were many goats here, more 
than on the other fide of the ifland, yet it was with much 
more dif&culty that I could come near tl^em ; the coun- 
try being flat and even, and they faw me much fooner 
than when I was on the hills. 

- I confefs this fide of the country was much pleafanter 
than mine, but yet 1 had not the leaft inclination to re* 
move, for as I was fixed in my habitation, it became 
natural to me, and I feemed all the while I was here, to 
be, as it were, upon a journey, and from home. How- 
ever I travelled along the fhore 6f the fea towards the 
eaft, I fuppofe about twelve miles, and then letting up 
a great pole upon the fhore for a mark, I concluded I 
would go home again ; and the next journey I took 
Jhould be on the other fide of the iiland, eafl from my 
dwelling, and fo round till I came to my pofl ag^n : 
of which in its place. 

I took another way to come back than that I went, 
thinking I could eafily keep all the iiland ib much in 
my view, that I could not mifs finding my firfl dwelling 
by viewing the country, but I found myfelf miflaken ; 
lor being come about two or three miles, I found myfelf 
defcended into a very large valley ; but fo furrounded 
with hills, and thofe hills covered with woods, that [ 
could not fee which was the way by any diredtion but 
that of the fun, nor even then, unlefs I knew very well 
the pofition of the fun at that time of the day. 

It happened to my farther misfortune, that the wea- 
ther proved hazy for three or four days, while Lwas in 
this valley, and not being able to fee the fun, I wan- 
dered about very uncomfortably, and at laft was obliged 
to find out the fea-fide, look for my pofl, and come 
back the fame way I went j and then by eafy journies 
1 turned homev^ird, the weather being exceeding hot ; 
and my gun, ammunition^ hatchet, and oth^r things. 



BOBtMSOtt CR0SaE. 107 

In this journey my dbg furprifed a young kid, and 
feized upon it; and I running in to take hold ofit» 
caught it, and faved it alive from the dog* I had a great 
mind to bring it home, iff could, for I had often been 
muiing whether it might not be poifible to get a kid or 
two, and fo raife a breed of tame goats> wiiich might 
fupply me when my powder and ihot fhould be (pent* 

I made a collar to this little creature, and with a ftrine 
which I made of fome rope-yarn, which 1 always carried 
about me, I led him along, though with fome difficulty » 
till I come to my bower, and there I incloibd him, and 
left him, for I was very impatient to be at home, from 
whence I had been abfent above a month. 

I cannot exprefs what a fatisfadion it was to me,\ to 
come to my old hutch^andlie down in my hammoclo- 
bed. This little wandering journey, without a fettled 
place of abode, had been fb unpleafant to me, that my 
own houfe, as i called it to myfelf, was a perfe^ fettie- 
ment to me compared to that; and it rendered cvtryr 
thing about me fo comfortable, that I reiblved I would 
never go a great way from it again, while it ihouid be 
my lot to Hay on the ifland. 

I repofed myfelf here a week^ to reft and regale my« 
felf after my long journey ; during which, mod of the 
time was taken up in the weighty affair of making « 
cage for my pol, who began now to be a mere domeilic, 
and to be pretty well acquainted with me. ■ T hen 
I beean to think of the poor kid, which I had pent in 
within my little circle, and refolved to go and fetch it 
home, and give it fome food ; accordingly I went, and 
found it where I left it, for indeed it could not get out^ 
but was almoft flarved for want of food ; I went and cut 
boughs of trees and branches of fuch ihrubs as I could 
£nd, and threw it over, and having fed it, I tied it as I 
did before, to lead it away ; but it was fo tame with 
being hungry, that I had no need to have tied it ; for ic 
followed me like a dog ; and as I conflantly fed it, the . 
creature became fo loving, fo gentle, and fo fond, that 
it became from that time one o? my domeHics alfo, aad 
would never leave me afterwards. 

The rainy feafon of the autumnal equipox was now 

come> and I kept the 30th of September itx^^e fame fo- 

E 6 \R.\aKk> 



i 



tot APVEKTURES 01? 

lemn iiiaiiiier as before^ being tke anniTerfaiy of my 
landing on the iOaod, having now been there two years, 
and no more profpe^t of being delivered than the firft 
day I came there. I fpent the whole day in humble 
and thankful acknowledgments of the many wonderful 
mercies which my folitary condition w^ attended withj. 
and without which it might have been infinitely more 
miferable. I gave humble and hearty thanks, that God 
had been pleafed to difcover to me, even that it was 
poffibl^ I might be more happy in this Iblitary condi- 
tion, than I Ihould have been in a liberty of ibciety> 
and in all the pleafures of the world.«— That he could 
fully make up to me the deficiencies of my iblitary ilate> 
and the want of human fociety, by his preience» and the 
communication of his ^race to my fi)ul, fuppordng, coniN. 
forting, and encouraging me to depend upon his provi- 
dence here, and hope for his eternal prefence heieafter.. 

It was BOW that I began fenfiUy to feel how muck 
more happy the life I now led was, with all its mifera- 
able circumilances, than the wicked, curfed, abominable 
life I led all the paH part of my days ; and now having 
changed both my forrows and my joys, my very de^ 
^res altered, my affedtions- changed their-guft, and my 
"delights were perfe^ly new from what they were at firft 
coming, or indeed for the two years pa£k. 

Before, as I walked about, either on my banting, 07 
ibr viewing the country, the anguiih of my fbttl> at my 
condition, would break out upon me on a fudden, and 
my very heart . would die within me, to think of the 
ivcods, the inou»tains> the defarts I was in ; and how I 
was a prifoner locked op, with the eternal bars and bolts 
of the ocean, in an uninhabited wildernefs, without re- 
demption, in the Biidft of the gceateft compofures of 
my mind, this would break out upon me like a f^orm, 
and make me wr>ng my handi, and weeplike a chiJd. 
Sometimes it would take me in the middle of my work, 
audi would immediately fit down iind figh, and look 
opon the ground for an hour or two together, and thi& 
was fUll worfe tome ; ibr if X could burll out into tears^ 
or vent ^yfelf Uv words, it would go off, and the grief 
having exhaufted itfelf would abate* 



ROBINSON CRtrsOE. 109 

But now I began to cxcrcifc myfelf with new 
jiious;ht8 ; 1 daaly read the word of God> and applied 
aH tne comforts of it to my prefent date. One morn- 
ing being very fad, I opened the bible upon thefe words, 
I will never, never leave thee» nor forfake thee ! Imme- 
diately it occured, that thefe words were to me ; why 
elfe fhould they be directed in foch a manner, juft at the 
moment when 1 was mourning over my condition* as 
one fbrfaken of God and man } Well then, faid I, if 
God does not forfake me, of what ill confequence can 
it be, or what matters it, tho' the workl ihould all for« 
fake me ; feeing, on the other hand, if I had all the 
world, and fhoiUd lofe the favor and bleffing of God, 
there would be no comparifbn in the lofs? 

Froih this moment I began to conclude in my mind, 
that it was poflible for me to be more happy in this fbr- 
faken, folitary coiidition, than it was probable I fhould 
have ever been in any other particular ftate in the world ; 
and with this thought I was going to give thanks to 
Gpd ^r bringing me to this place. 

I know not what it was, but fomething fhocked my 
mind at that thought, and I durfl not fpeak the words : 
How canfl thou be fuch a hypocrite, faid I, even audi- 
bly, to pretend to be thankful for a condition, which, 
however thou mayfl endeavour to be contented with , thou 
wouldft rather pray heartily to be delivered from ? So I 
flopped there ; but tho' I could not fay, I thanked God 
for being there, yet I fincerely gave thanks to God for 
opening my eyes, by whatever affliding Providences, to 
fee the former condition of my life, and to mourn for 
my wick«dnefs, and repent. I never opened the bible 
or fhut it, but my very foul within me blefled God for 
direding my friend in England, without any order of 
mine, to pack it up among my goods ; and for affiftiiig 
me afterwards to fave it out of the wreck of the fhip. 

Thus, and in this difpofition of mind, I began my 
third year ; and though 1 have not given the reader the 
trouble of £0 particular an account of my works this 
year as the firfl; yet in general it may beobferved, that 
I was very feldom idle ; having regularly divided my 
time, according to the feveral daily employments 
Ci^t were befiureme ; fuchas— Firfl, My duty to God, 



r 



no ADVENTURES OF 

and reading the fcriptures^ which I condantly fet ^art 
fome time for, thrice every day.— Secondly, The going 
abroad with my gun for food, which geaerally took 
me up three hours in every morning when it did not 
rain. — Thirdly, The ordering, curing, preferving, and 
cooking what I had killed or catched for my fop^y— « 
thefe took up great part of the day — Alio, it is to be 
confidered, that in the midale of the day, when the fun 
was in the zenith, the violence of the heat was too great 
to ilir out, fo that about four hours in the evening was 
all the time I could' be fuppul'ed to work in, with this 
exception, that fome timei I changed my hours of hunt- 
ing and working, and went to work in the morning, and 
abroad with my gun in the evening. 

To this fhort time allowed for labour, I defire may 
be added, the exceeding laborioufneis of my work ; the 
many hours, wnich for want of tools, wantofhelp, 
want of ikill, every thing that I did, took up out of 
my time.— For example, I was full two and forty days 
making me a board for a long fhelf, whicii I wanted iti 
my cave; whereas two fawyers, with their tools and 
faw-pit, would have cut fix of them out of the fame tree 
in half a day. 

My cafe was this — It was to be a large tree which 
was to be cut down, becaufe my board was to be a 
broad one. The tree I was three days in cutting down, 
and two more cutting off the boughs, and reducing it 
, to a log, or piece of timber. /With inexprefl^le hack- 
ing and hewing, I reduced both the fides of it into chips, 
till it began to be light enough to move; then I turned 
it, and made one fide of it imooth and flat, as a board, 
from end to end. Then turning that fide downward, 
cut the other fide till I brought the plank to be about 
three inches thick, and fmooth on both fides. Any one 
may judge of the labour of my hands in fuch a piece of 
work ; but labour and patience carried me through that 
and many other things. I only obferve this in particu- 
lar, to ftiew the reaibn why lo much of my time went 
away with fo little work, viz. That what might be a 
little to be done with help and tools, wa's a V2.it labour, 
jtnd required a prodigious time to do alone, and by 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. ttt 

But notwithftaiiding this, with patience and labour 
I went thro* many things, and indeed every thing that 
my circamftances made necelTary for me to do, as will 
appear by what follows. 

I was now in the months of November and December, 
expecting my crop of barley and rice. The ground I 
had manured or dug up fyr them was not great; for as « 
I obfcrved, my feed of each was not above the quantity 
of half a peck ; for I had loft one whole crop by ibwing 
in the dry feafon ; but now my crop promifed very well> 
when on a fudden I found 1 was in danger of lofing it 
all again by enemies of feveral forts, which it was feared 
poffible to keep from it —As iirft, the goats, and wild 
creatures which I called hares, who, tafting the fweetnefs 
of the blade, lay in it all night and day,as foon as it came 
up, and eat it fo dole, that it could get no time to {hoot 
up into ftalks. 

This I fawno rtmedy for, but by making an inclofure 
about it with a heoge, which I did with a great deal of 
toil ; and the more, becaufe it required a great deal of 
fpeed ; the creatures daily fpoiling my corn. However, 
as my arable land was but fmall; fuited to my crop,I got 
it totally well fenced in about three weeks time; and 
ihooting fome of the creatures in the day time, I fet my 
dog to guard it in the night, tying him up to a ftake at 
the gate, where he could iland and bark all nightlong^; 
foin a little time the enemies forfook the place, and the 
com grew very ftrong, and well, and began toripen apace* . 

But as the beafts ruined me before, while my corn was 
in the blade, fo the birds were as likely to ruin me now, 
when it was in the ear ; for going along by the place to 
fee how it throve, I faw my little crop furrounded with 
fowls of I know not how many forts, which flood as it 
were watching till I (hould be gone. — I immediately let 
fly among them, for I had always my gun with me.— 
I had no fooner (hot than there arofe up a little cloud of 
fowls, which I had not feen at all, from among the corn 
itfelf.. 

This touched me fenfibly , for I forefaw, tha|: in a few 
days they would devour all my hopes : that I fhould btf 
ftarved, and never be able to raile a crop at all, and 
what to do I could aot tell. However, I refolved wot to 



i 



\t% ADVENTURES© P 

lofe my corn, if pofiible> tho* I (hould watch, it nighe 
and day. In the firft pli^e» I went among it to fee what 
damage was already done, and found they had fpoiled, 
a^good deal of it; hut that, as it wt3 yet too green for 
them, the lofs was noc fo great, but the remainder was. 
like to be a good crop, if it could be iavedc 

I £Uid by it to load my gun« and then, coming away» 
I could eadly fee the thkves Otting upon all the trees, 
about me, as if they only waited till I was gone away*, 
and the event proved it to be ib; for as I walked off a^ 
if I was gone, I was no fooner out of their fight, but 
they dropt down, one by one into the com again* I was. 
fo provoked, that I could not have patience to ilay till 
more came on, knowing that every grain thai they eat 
;iow, was, as might be faid, a peck loaf tome in the 
confequence ; but coming tip to the hedge* I fired again> 
and killed three of them. This was what I wiihed for i 
fo I took thejn ttp, and ferved them as we ferve notorious, 
thieves in England^ viz. hanged them in chains for di 
terror to otheriS. It is almoll impofliblc to imagine, that 
this (hould have fuch an €if€&. as it had ; for th^ fowls, 
would not only not come at the corn, but in &ort they 
foribok that part of the iAand,. and I qouid neyeir fee ai 
bird near the place as long as my fcaj-ecrCMvs bung there«c 

This I was very glad of you may be fure ; and about 
the latter end of Cecembei:,which was our fecond harveft 
in the year, I reaped my corn. 

I was fadily put to it for a fey the or a fickb ta cut it 
down^ and all X could do was to make on« as well a3 1 
could, put of .one of the broad (words, or catlafTes., 
which I faved among th^ arms out of the fhip.* How- 
ever, as my crop was.fmall, I had np-gr^at difficulty, 
to cut it down : In Avort, I r.eaped it cay way,, for 1 cu^ 
nothing oif but the ears,^ and carried it away in a greatc 
baiket which I had m^ade, and &) rubbed it out with m^ 
hands ; and at the end of all my h;irvefiing, I fbuod 
that out of my half peck of feed, I had near two J^uiheU 
of rice, and above two bufhels and a half of barley j^ 
that is to fay, by my guefs, for I had no mfi»£me at that 
time. 

However, this was a great encouragement to m«"i 
and I foretnw, that in time it would pleafe God to fup^* 

\^1 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 113 

ply me with bread; and yet here I was perplexed again* 
for I neither knew how to grinds or make meal of my 
corn, or indeed how to clean it and part it ; nor if made 
into meal, how to make bread of it ; and, if how to 
mak« it, yet I knew not how to bake it. Th«fe things 
being added to my defire ot having a good quantity for 
ilore, and 10 fccure a conftant fupply, 1 refolved not to 
taftc any of this crop, bot to prefcrvc it all for feed 
gainft the next feafon, and in the mean time to employ 
all my ftudy, and hours of workine, to accomplifh this 
great work offupplying myfelf with corn and bread. 

It might be truly faid, that I now worked for my 
bread, it is a little wonderful, and what I believe few 
people have thought much upon; viz. the ilrange multi* 
tude of little things neceflary in theproyiding,producing, 
curing, dreiiing, making and finilhing this one artide^of 
bread. 

1, that was reduced to a mere fbte of nature, found 
this to be my daily difcouragement, and was made more 
and more fenfible of it every hour, even after I got the 
firft handful of feed corn, which, as 1 haveiaid, came up 
unexpedledly, and indeed to my furprife. 

Firil, I had no plow to turn up the earth, no fpade or 
ihovel to dig it. — Well, this I conquered by making a 
wooden fpade, as I obferved before ; but this did my 
work but in a wooden manner ; and though it coft me a 
great many days to make it, yet for want of iron, it not 
only wore out the fooner, but made my work the harder, 
and made it be performed much worfe« 

However, this I bore with too, and was content ta 

work it out with patience, and bear with the badn^fs of 

the performance. When the corn was fowed, I had no 

harrow, but was forced to go over it myfelf, and drag a 

/ - y great heavy bough of a tree over it, to icratch the earth, 

^s it tnay be called, rather than rake or harrow it. 

. When it was growing or grown, I have obferved aV 
ready how many things I wanted«-«to fence it, fecure it, 
mow or reap it, cure or carry it home, threih, part it 
. fit>m the chaff, and fave it. Then 1 wanted a mill to 
grind it, fieves to drefs it, yeft and fait to make it into 
bread, and an oven to bake it in ; and all thefe things 
I did without;, as ihall be obferved ; aad yet the com 



1 



1^4 ADVENTURES OF 

was an inelHmable comfort and advantage to me too; but 
all thisy as I faid, made ever/ thing laborious and tedious 
to me, but that there was no help for ; neither was my 
time fo much lofs to me, becaufe I had divided it ; a cer- 
tain part of it was every day appointed to thefe works ; 
and as 1 refolved to ufe none af the corn for breads till I 
had a greater quantity by me, I had the next fix months 
to apply myfelf wholly by labour and invention, to fur- 
nifti myfelf with utenfils proper for the perforping all 
the operations neceflary for the making the com, wheft 
I had it, fit for my ufe. ' 

But firft I had tcpreparc more land, for I had now 
feed enough to fow above an acre of ground. Before I 
did this, I hAd above a week's work to make me a 
fpade, which, when it Was done, was a very forry oiic 
indeed, and very heavy, and required double labour tfo 
work with it ; however, I went through that, and fowed 
Illy feeds in two large flat pieces of ground, as near my 
•hottfe as I could find them to my mind, and fenced them ' 
in with a good hedge, the flakes of which were all cut 
off that wtx)d which I had fet before, which I knew 
• wOiiid grow, fo that in one year's time I knew I fhoulfd 
have a quick, or living hedge, that would want but little 
repair. This work was not fo littie, as to take me op 
.leis than three months, becaufe great part of that linle 
was th^ wet feafon, when I coold not go abroad. ' 

Within doors, that is, when it rained, and 1 could nOt 
go out, 1 found employment on the following occafion : 
Always obferving, that all the while I was at work I 
diverted myfelf with talkinir to my parrot;^ and teaching 
him to fpeak, and I quickly learnt him to know his 
own name ; and at 4aft to i'peak it pretty loud, Pol"; 
which was the firft word I ever heard fp ken in the ifland, 
by any mouth bat my own. Tftis therefore was not my 
work, but an afliftant to my work ; for now, as I fai<l, 
I had a great employment upon my hands, as folloivs, 
viz. I had long ftudied, by foitte me^ns or other, to 
make mylelffortie earthen veffels, which indeed I want- 
ed forely, but knew not whereto come at them: how- 
ever, confidering the heat of the climate, I did n6t 
doubt bat, if I could find out any fuch clay, I might 
^otvA up ibmQ fuch pot as might, V>dii% dried by the 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 115 

fun> be hard enough , and flrong jenough, to bear hand- 
ling, and to hold any thing .that was dry^ and required 
to be kept fo ; and as this was neceffary in preparing 
corn, meal, &c. which was the thing I ^vas upon, I re- 
folved to make fome as large as I could, and Et only to 
Hand like jars, to hold what I fhould put into them. 
, It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at 
me, to tell how many aukward ways 1 took to raife this 
pafte, what odd mis-ihapen ugly things. Imad^, how 
many of them fell in, and how many fell out,' the clay 
not being HiiFenough to bear its own weight; how many 
cracked by the over violent heat of the fun, being fet out 
too haflily ; and how many fell to pieces with only re- 
moving, as well before as after they were dryed ; and, i*i 
a word, how, after having laboured hard to firtd the clay, 
to dig it, to temper it, 10 bring it home, and work it, J 
could not make above two large eartkeii ugly things, I 
cannot call them jars, in about two months labour. 

However, as the fun baked thcfc two very dry and 
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and fet them down 
again in two great wicker bafkets, which I had made on 
purpofe for them,, that they might not break ; and, as 
between the pot and the baflcet there was a li tie room 
to fpare, I ftafFed it full of the rice and fcarley ftraw : 
and thefe two pots being to Hand always dry, 1 thought 
would hold my dry corn, and perhaps the meal, when 
rthe corn was bruifed. 

Though I milcarried fo much in my defign for large 
pots, yet I made feverkl fmaller things with better fuc- 
cefs; fuch as little round pots, flat difties, pitchers, and 
pipkins, and any thing my hand turned to; and thtt 
iieat of the iun baked them flrangely hard. 

But all this would not anlwer my end, which w^s to 
get an earthen pot to hold what was liquid, atid bear the 
fire, which none of thefe could do. It t^appcned after 
fome time, making a pretty large fire for cooking my 
meat, whepi I went to put it out, after I had done with 
it, I found a broken piece of one of my earthen ware 
vefiels in the fire, burnt as hard as a itone, and rtd a« 
a tile, I was agreeably furpriied to fee it, and faid to 
niyfelf, that certainly they might be made to burn whole^ 
if they would bum broken. 



ti6 ADVENTURES OF 

This fct me to ftudy how to order my fire, fo as to 
make it burn me fome pots. I had no notion of a kiln > 
foch as the potters burn in, or of glazing them with 
lead». though I had fome lead to do it with ; but I 
placed three large pipkins, and two or three pots, in a 
pile one upon another, and placed my fire- wood all 
round it with a great heap of embers under them : I 
plied the fire with frefh fuel round the outfide, and 
upon the top, till I faw the pots in the infide red hot 
quite throogh, and obferved that they did not crack at 
all : when I &w them clear red, I let them fland in that 
heat about five or fix hoars, till I found one of them, 
thoogll it did not crack, did melt or run ; for the fand 
which was mixed with the clay melted by the violence 
of the heat» and ivould have run into glafs, if I had 
gone on ; ib I flacked my fire gradually, till the pots be* 
gan to abate of the red colour ; and watching them all 
night, that I might not let the. fire abate too fad, in the 
morning I had three very good, I will not fay handfbme 
pipkins, and two other earthen pots, as hard burnt as 
could be defired ; and one of them perfectly glazed with . 
the running of the fand. 

After this experiment I need not fay that I wanted no 
fort of earthen ware for my ufe ; but I mud needs fay, as 
to the fhapes of them, they were very indifferent, as any 
one may fuppofe, when I had no way of making them, 
but as the childiien make dirt pics, or as a woman would 
make pi^ that never learnt to raife paile. 

No joy at a thing of fo mean a nature was ever equal 
to mine, when I found I had made an earthen pot that 
would bear the fire ; and 1 had hardly patience to (lay 
till they were cold, before I fet one upon the fire again, 
with fome water in it, to boil me fome meat, which I 
did admirably well ; and with a piece of a kid T made 
fome very good broth, though I wanted oatmeal, and 
feveral other ingredients reqoifite to make it fogood as I 
would have had it. 

My next concern was to get me a fione mortar to 

Aamp or beat fome corn in ; for as to the mill, theve 

was no thought of arriving to that perfection of art 

>vith one pair of hands. To fupply this want, I was 

at a great Jofs ; for of all trades in the world I was as 



ROBINSON CRtJSOE. t^y 

perfcftly unqualified for a flone-cutter, as for any what- 
ever ; neither had I any tools to go about it with. 1 fpent 
many a day to find out a great ftone big enough to cut 
hollow, and make fit for a mortar, and could find none 
at all^ except what was in the folid rock, an^ which I 
had no way to dig or cut out ; nOr indeed were the rocks 
in theiflandof hardnefs fufficient, butwei;e all of al'aAdy 
•crumbling Hone, which would neither bear the weight 
of an heavy peftle, nor \^ould break the corn without 
filling it with fand : fo, after a great deal of time loft in 
fearcbing for a ftone, I gave it over, and ref^lved lo look 
out a great block of hard wood, which I found indeed 
much eafier ; and getting one as big as 1 had ftrength to 
flir, I rounded it, and formed it on the outfide with my 
ax and hatchet ; and then with the help of fire and in« « 
finite labour, made an hollow place in it, as the Indians 
in Brafil make their canoes* After this, I made a great 
heavy peftle or beater, of the wood called the iron* 
woody and this I prepared and laid by againft I had my - 
next crop of corn, when I propofcd to -myfelf. to grind, 
er rather pound, my corn or meal to make my bread. 

My next difiiculty was to make a ^itv^ or fierce, to 
•^refs my meal, and part it from the bran and the huik, 
without which I did not fee it pofiible I could have any 
bread. This was a moft difficult thing, fo much as but 
to think on ; for to be fure I had nothing like the ne- 
. ceflary things to make it with ; I mean fine thin canvafs, 
or ftuff" to fierce the meal through. And here I was at 
a full ftop for many months ; nor did I really know what 
to do ; linen I had none lefk but what was mere rags ; I 
had goat's hair, but neither knew I how to weave or fpin 
it ; and had I known how, here were no tools to work 
it with; all the remedy that I found for this, was, that 
at laft I did remember I had among the feamen's clothes 
which were faved out of th^ ftiip, ibme neckdoths of 
callico or muflin ; and with fome pieces ot thefe I made 
three fmall ^xtyts^ but proper enough for the work ; and 
vthus I made (hift for fome years ; how I did afterwards, 
I'lhall fhew in its place. 

The baking part was^ the next thing to be confidered, 
and how I ihould make bread when I came to have 
-coin I for, firft» I had no yeft : as to that part, as 



m8 adventures of 

there was no fupplying the want, fo I did not concern 
myfelf much about it. But for an oven^ I Vas indeed in 
great pain. At length I found out an experiment for 
that alib> which was this ; I made feme earthen veflets 
very broad, but not deep ; that is to fay« about two feet 
diameter, and not above nine inches deep ; thefe I 
burnt in the fire as 1 had done the other, and laid them 
by ; and when I wanted to bake, I made a great lire 
upon the hearth, which I had paved with fome fquare 
tiles of my own maidng and burning alfo ; but I mould 
not call them fquare. 

When the fire-wood was burnt pretty much into em- 
bers, or live coals, I drew them forward upon this 
hearth, fo as to cover it all over ; and there I let them 
«lie, till the hearth was very hot ; then fweeping away all 
the embers, I fet down my loaf, or loaves ; and whelm* 
jng down the earthen pot upon them, drew the embers 
all round the outfide qIf the pot, to keep in, and add to 
the heat ; and thus, as well as in the beft oven in the 
yi^orld, I baked my barley-loaves, and became in a little 
time a mere pailry-cook into the bargain i for I made 
myfelf feveral c^esofthe rice, and puddings ; indeed 
I made no pies, neither had I any tiijng to put into them, 
fuppofing I had, except the flefli either of fowls or goats. 

It need not be wondered at, if all thefe things took 
^ me up moft part of the third year of my ^abode h^re ; 
for it is to be obferved, that in^ the intervals of thefe 
things, I had my new harvefl and huibandry to ma- 
nage : for I reaped my corn in its feafon, and carried 
it home as well as I could, and laid it op in the ear, 
ill my large baikets, till I had time to rub iJt out ; for 
I had no floor to threih it on, or inilrument to threlh it 
with. ^ . 

And now indeed my flock of corn increafing, I really 
wanted to build my barns bigger : I wanted a place to 
lay it up in ; for the increafe of the corn now yielded me 
fQ much, that I had of the barley about twenty bufhejs, 
and of the rice as much, or more ; infomuch that I now 
refolvcd to begin to ufe ic freely, for my b/ead had been 
quite gone a great while ; alio I refolved to fee what 
quantity would be fufficieot for me a whole year, and to 
ioiv hut once a year. 

U^n 



ROPINSON CRUSOE. 119 

Upon the whole, I found that the forty bufliels of 
barley and rice were mach more than I could conl'ume in 
a year ; <b I refolved to fow juft the fame quantity cveiy 
year that I fowed the laft, in hopes that fuch a^uantfEy 
would fully provide me with bread, &c. 

All the while thefe things were doing, you may be fure 
my thoughts ran many times upon the profpefl of land 
which I had feen from the other fide of the ifland ; and 
I was not without fecret wifhes, that I was on fhore 
there, fancying that feeing the main land, and an in- ^ 
habited country, I might find fome way or other to con- 
vey myfelf farther, and perhaps at laA find fome meam 
ofefcape. ^ 

But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers 
of fuch a condition, and how^Imight fall into the hands 
bf favagcs, and perhaps* fuch as I might have reafon to 
think far worfe than the lions and tigers of Africa : that 
if I once came into their power, I fhould^un an hazard 
more than a thoufand to one of being killed, and per- 
haps of being eaten ; for I had heard that the people of 
the Caribean coaib were canibals, or men-eaters ; and 
I knew by the latitude that I could not be far dfJF from 
that fhore : th^, fupj^fe they were not canibals, yet 
they might kill me, as many Europeans who had fallen 
into their hands had been ferved, even when they had 
been ten or twenty together , much more I that was but 
one, and could make little or no defence. All thefe 
things, I fay, which I ought to have confidered well 
of, and I did V call up my thoughts afterwards, yet 
took none of my apprchenfions at firflj and my head 
ran mightily upon the thoughts of getting over to that 
fhorc. • 

Now I wifhed for my boy Xury, and the long-boat, 
^ith the (houlder of mutton-fail , with which. I failed 
above a thoufand miles on ihe coait of Africa ; but this 
was in vain. Then I thought I would go and look 
on our fhip's boat, which, as 1 have faid was blown 
up upon the fhore a great way in the florm, when we 
werefirft caft away. She lay almofl where fhe did at 
firft, but not quite ; and was turned by the force ot the 
waves and the winds, almoft bottom upwards, againft 
the high ridge of beachy rough fand> but no water about 
her as before. * Vl 



mo ADVENTURES OF^ 

If I had had hands to have refitted her, and liave 
launched her into the water, the boat would have done 
well enough, and I might have gone back into the Bralils ^ 
wi\3x her eafy enough ; but I might have cafilyforefeen, 
that I could no more turn her, and fet her upright upon 
her bottom, than I could remove the ifland, However 
I went to the wood, and Q^at leaves and rollers, and 
brought them to the boat, refolved te try what 1 could 
do ; Aiggcfting to myfelf, that if I could but twrn her 
down, I might eafiiy repair the damage ihe had re- 
ceived, and Ihe would be a very good boat, and 1 might 
gq to fea in her very eafily. 

I fparec^ no pains indeed in this piece of fruitlefs toil,, 
and fpent, I think, three or four weeks about it ; at lail 
finding it impoflible to heave it up with my little ftrengh, 
I fell to digging away the fand to undermine it ; and fb * 
to make it fall down, fetting piex:es of wood to thruft 
and guide it right in the fall. 

But when I had don^ thi;, I was unable to ftir it up 
again, or to get under it, much lefs to move it forwards % 
towards the water ; fo I was forced to give it over : and 
yet, though I gave over the hopes of the boat, my defire 
to venture aver for the main increafed, rather than de- 
creafed, as the means for it feemed impofiible. 

This at length fet me upon thinking whether it was 
not poffible to. make myfelf a canoe or periagua, fuch as 
the natives of thole climates make, even without tools, 
or, as I might fay, without, hands, viz. of the trunk 
of a great tree. This I not only thought poflible, but 
eafy ; and pleafed myfelf extremely with my thoughts 
of makiig it, and with ray having much more conve- 
nience for it than any of the Negroes or Indians ; but not 
at all confidering the particular inconveniencies which , 
I lay under more than the Indians did, viz. want of 
hands to move it into the water, when it was made ; 
a difficulty much harder for me to furmount , than all 
the confequences of want of tools, could be to them: ,^ 
for what was it to me, that when I had chofen a vail f 
tree in the woods, I might with great trouble cut it j 
down, if after I might be able with my tools to hew J 
and dub the outfide into a proper, (hape of a boat, and 1 
Sara or cat the infide to make it hollow, fo tp make J 
JiMoacofit, if, after all this, I mvx&\twft \X. \^^ there | 



I 



R B 1 N S O N C R U S 6 E. lai 

* where I found it, and was not able to launch it into the 
. water. 

One woiili have thought, I could not have had the 
Icaft reflexion upon my mind of%iy circumftance, while 
I was making this boat, but I Ihould have immediately 
thought how I (hould get it into the fea ; but my thoughts 
were fo intent upon my voyage over the fea in it, that 
I never once confidered how I fhould get it off of the 
- land ; and it was rpaily in its own nature more eafy for 
me to guide it over forty-five miles of fea, than about 
forty-five fathom of land, where it lay, to fet it afloat in 
^ the water. 

i went to work upon this boat the moft like a fool 
that ever man did, who had any of his fenfes awake. I 

• pleafed myfelf with the defign, without determining 
: whether I was ever able to undertake it ; Hot but that 
^ the~difiicultv of launching my boat came often into my 

head ; but I put a flop to my own inquiries into it by 

this foolifli anfwer, which I gave myfelf. Let me firft 

make it, I'll warrant 1*11 find fome way or other to get 

it slong, when it is done. 

This was a moft prepofterous method ; but the eager* 

I nefs of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went, snd 

', felled a cedar-tree : I queftion much whether Solomon 

': ever had fuch an one for the building the temple at Je- 

i rufalem ; it was five feet ten inches diameter at the 

I lower part next the flump, and four feet eleven inched 

» diameter at the end of twenty-two feet, after which it 

"' lelTened for a while, and then parted into branches : 

It was not without infinite labour that I felled this 

♦ tree ; I was twenty days hacking and hewing at it at 

the bottom; I was fourteen more getting the branches 

. and limbs, and the vafl fpreading head of it Cut off ; 

whi'-hh I hacked and hewed through with my ax and 

^ hatchet, with inexpreffible labour : After this it cofl me 

' a month to fliape it, and dub it to a proportion, and to 

fomething like the bottom of a boat, that it might 

fwim upright as it ought to do. It cofl me near thred 

months more to clear the infide, and work it out fo, 

as to make an exaftboatof it: This I did indeed with- 

' out fire, by mere mallet and chiffel, and by the dint of 

I hard labour ; till I had brought it to be a verv hand- 

- Vol. I. Y «w^s«ifc 



i 



122 . ADVENTURES O^ 

fome periagua, and big enough to have carried fax anA 
twenty men, and oonfequently big enough to have car- 
ried me and all' my cargo. . 

When I had gone tbiid' tliis work, I was extremely de-^ 
lighted with it : The boat was really much bigger than 
I ever faw a canoe or perigua, that was mad^ of one tree, 
in my life ; many a weary llroke it had coft, you may be 
fure, for there reniained notliing but to get it into the wa- 
ter ; and had I gotten it i?\to the water, I make no quef- 
tion, but I fhould have begun the madell voyage, and the 
moll vmlikely to be performed, that ever was undertaken. 

But all my devices to get into the water failed me». 
though they cofl infinite labour too ; it lay about one 
hundred yards from the water, and not more ; but tlie 
iirfl inconvenience was, it wa's up hill towards the creek : 
Well, to take away tJiis difcouragement, 1 refolved to 
dig into the furface of the earth, and fo make a decli- 
vity ; this 1 began, and it coft me a prodigious deaj of 
pains : But^^vho grudge pains, that have their deliverance 
in viev(» ? But when thirs was v/orked through, and this, 
difficulty managed, it was ilill much as one ; for I could 
no m.ore flir the canee, than I could the other boat. 

Then I meafured the diftance of the ground, and re- 
folved to cut a dock, or canal, to bring the water up to 
the canoe, feeing I could not bring the canoe down to 
the water ; Well, I began this work, and when I began 
to enter into it, and calculated how deep it was to be dug, 
liow broad, how the ftuff to be thrown out, I found, that 
by the number of hands I had, being none but my own, 
it muft have been ten or. twelve years beforel fhould 
have gone through with it*; for the fhore lay high, fo 
that at the upper end it muft have been at leaft twenty 
feet deep ; fo at length, though with great reludancy, I 
gave this attempt over alfo. 

^ This grieved me heartily, and now I faw, though too 
late, the folly of beginning a work before we count the 
. coft, and before we judge rightly of our own ftrength to 
go through with it. 

In J:he middle of this work 1 finiflied my fourth year 
m this place, and kept my anniverfary with the fame 
»jrf<votion, and with as much comfort, as ever before ; 
iM- bj^ a confiant lludy, and ferious application of the 

word 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 123 

word of God, and by the ailiflance of his grace, I 
gained a different knov/ledge from what 1 had before ; 
I entertained difiisrent notions of things ; I looked now 
upon the worM ns a thing remote ; whicli I had nothing 
to do A^ith, no expedlation from, and indeed no defires 
about: In a word, I had nothing indeed to do with it, 
nor was ever like to have ; fo I thought it looked as we 
may perhaps look upon it hereafter ; viz. as a place I 
had lived in, but was come out of it ; and well I might 
iay> as father Abraham to Dives, Between me and thee 
there is a great gulph fixed. 

In the firfl place, I was removed from all the wicked- 
nefs of the world here : I had neither the luft of the 
flelh, the luft of the eye, or the pride of life : I had no- 
thing to covet, for I had all I was now capable of enjoy- 
• ing : I was lord of the whole manor, or, if I pleafed^ I 
might call myfelf king or emperor over the whole coun- 
try which I had .poffeffion of : There were no rivals : 
I had no competitor, none tqrdifputefovereignty or com- 
mand with me ; T might Imve raifed fhip-loadings of 
corn, but I had no ufe for it ; fo I let as little grow as I 
thought enough for my occafion; I had tortoifes or tur- 
tles enough ; but now and then one was as much as I 
could put to any ufe : I had timber enough to have built 
a fleet of Ihips ; I had grapes enough to have made 
wine, or to have curedintp raifms, to have loaded that 
fjeet when they had been built. 

But all I could make tife of, was all that was valuable : 
I had enough to eat, and to fupply my wants, apd what 
was all the reft to me ? If 1 killed more flefh than I 
could eat, the dog muft eat it, or the vermin ; if I fowed 
more corn than I could eat, it muft be fpoiled : The 
trees that I cut down were lying to rot on the ground, I 
could make no more ufe of them than for fuel, and that. 
I had no occafion for, but to drefs my food. 

In a word, the nature and experience of things 
di(ftated to me upon juft refledion, that all the good 
things of this world are no farther good to us, than 
they are for our ufe ; and that whatever we may heap 
up indeed to give to others, we enjoy as much as we can 
ufe, and'^no more. The moft covetous griping mifer in; 
the world would have been cured of the vice of co- • 



124 A'DVENTURES OF 

vetoufnefs, if he had been in my cafe; fori pofitflTtd. 
infinitely more than I knew what to do with. I had no 
room for defire, except it was of things which I had not, 
and they were but trifles, tho' indeed of -great ufetome. 
I had, as I hinted before, a parcel of money, as well 
gold as filver, about thirty-fix pounds fterling ; Alas! 
there the nafty forry ufelefs ftufF lay ; I had no man- 
ner of bufinels for it ; and I pften thought with myfelf, 
that I would have given an handful of it for a grofsof 
tobacco-pipes, or for a hand-mill to grind my corn ; nay, 
I would have given it all for fixpenny-worth of turnep 
and carrot feed out of England, or for an handful of 
peas and beans, and a bottle of ink : As it was, I had' 
not the leaft advantage by it, or benefit from it ; but there 
it lay in a drawer, and grew mouldy with the damp of 
the Cave, in the wet feafon ; and if I had had the drawer 
full of diamonds, it had been the fame cafe ; and they 
had been of no manner of value to me, becaufe of no ufe, 

I had now brought my iltte of life to be much eafier 
in itfelf than it was at jirft, and much eafier to my mind, 
as well as to my body. I frequently fat down to my 
meat ^^th thankfulnefs, and admired the-hand of 
God's providence, which had thus fpread my table in 
the wildernefs : I learned to look more upon the bright 
fide of my condition, and lefs upon the dark fide ; and 
to confider what I enjoyed, rather than what I wanted ; 
and this gave me fometimes fuch fecret comforts, that I 
cannot exprefs them ; and which I take notice of here, 
to put thofe difcontented peopk in mind of it, who can- 
not enjoy comfortably what "God hrith given them, be- 
caufe they fee and covet fomething that he has not given 
them : All our difcontents about what we ^ant, ap- 
peared to me to fpring irom the want of thankfulnefs 
for what we have. 

Another refleftion w^s -of greact ufe to tne, and doubt- 
Icfs would be ib to any one that fhould fall into fuch 
diflrefs as mine was ; and this was, to compare my pre- 
fent condition with what I at firft expected it flipulobe ; 
nay, with what it w»uld certainly have been, if the good 
providence of Oodhad not wonderfully ordered the fliip 
to be caft up nearer to the ihore, where I not only 
covldcome at her, but could biiu^ what I got out of 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 125 

her to the fhore for my relief and comfort ; without 
which I had wanted tools to work, weapons for defence, 
€wr gunpowder and fl:ot for getting my fooJ. ' 

I fpent whole hours, I may fay, whole days, in repre-. 
fenting to myfelf in the moft lively colours, how I mull 
have a6led, if I had got nothing out of the Ihip ; how I 
could not have fo much as got any food, except filli and 
turtles ; and that, as it was long before I found any of 
them, I muft have perHlied iirft : That 1 fhould have 
lived, if I had not perilhed, like a mere favage : That if 
1 had killed a goat or a fowl by any contrivance, I had 
no way to flay or open them, or part the flefli from the 
ikin and the bowels, or to cut it up ; but muft gnaw it 
with my teeth, and pull it with my cla>^'s, like a beaft. 

Theie refle<5tions made me very fenfible of the good- 
Hefs of providence to me, and very thankfiil for my pre- 
fcnt condition, with all its hardfhips and misfortunes : 
And this part alfo I cannot but recommend to the reflec- 
tion of thofe who are apt in their mifery to fay,. Is any 
aflli^lion like mine ? Let them confider, how much worfe 
the cafes of fome people are, and what their cafe inight 
. have been, if Provrdence had thought fit. 

I had another refleftion which allifted nie alfo to 
comfort my mind with hopes ; and this was, comparing 
my prefent condition with what I had deferved, and had 
ttirefore reafon to expe£k from the hand of Providence ; 
I had lived a dreadful life, perfe6tly dcftitute of the 
knowledge and fear of God: I had been wcB in- 
ftru6ted by my father and mother ; neither had they been 
wanting to me in their early endeavours, to inrufe a 
religious awe of God into my mind^ 3 fenfe of my 
duty, and of what the nature and end of ray being 
required of me : But alas! falling early into the fea» 
faring life, which of all the lives is the moftdeftitutc 
of the fear of God, tho' his terrors are always before 
them ; I fay, falling early into the fea-faring life, and 
into feafaring company, all that little fenfe of religion 
which I had entertained, was laughed out of me by my 
meflinates ; by an hardening dcfpifing of dangers, ana 
the views of deaths which grew habitual to me ; by 
my long abfence from all manner o£ opportunities to 
converfe with any thing but what . was like myfelf, 



126 , ADVENTURES OF 

or to hear any thing of what was good. Or tended to- 
wards it. 

So void was I of every thing that was good, or of the 
lead fenfe of what I was, or was to be, ,tKat in the 
greateft deliverance I enjoyed, fuch as my efcape from 
Sallee, my being taken up by the Portuguefe mafter of 
the Ihip, my being planted fo well in Brafil, my receiving 
the cargo from England, and the like, I never o;ice had 
the word thank God, fo much as on my mind, or in my 
mouth ; nor in the greateft diflre fs, had I fo much thought 
as to pray to him; nor fo mAich as to fay. Lord, have 
mercy upon me i No, not tO| mention the name of God, 
unlefs it was to fwear by, and blafpheme it. 

I had terrible refieAions upon my mind for many 
months, as I have already obferved, on the account of 
my wicked and hardened life paft ; and when I looked 
about me, and confidered v/hat particular providences 
had attended m.e, fmce my coming into this place, and 
hew God had dealt bountifully with me i had 'not only 
puni hed me lefs than my iniquity deferved, biit had fo 
plentifully provided for me ; this gave nje great hopes, 
'tl at fny repentance was accepted, and that God had yet 
mercies in llore for me. 

With t'.ieCi refleftions T worked my mind up, rtot only 
to reiigniition to the will, of God in the prefent difpo- 
.iition of my circumilances, bat even to a fincere thank- 
fulnefs of my condition ; and that I, wliO was yet a living 
man, ought not to complain, feeing I had not the jduo 
panilhment of my ^ns ; that I enjoyed fo many mercies, 
whicli I had no rcafon to have expeded in that place, 
that I ought never mere to repine at my condition, but 
to rejoice, ahd to give daily thanks, for that daily 
bread, which, nothing but a cloud of Vi/onders could have 
brought : That I ought to confide^ I had bsen fed even 
by a miracle, even as great as that of feeding Elijah by 
ravens ; nay, by a long feries of miracles ; and that I could 
hardly have named a place in the uninhabited part of th 2 
world, where I could have been cad more to my advan-^ 
tage ; A place, where as I had no fociety, which was^ 
my aHlidion on one hand, fo I found no ravenous 
beafls, no furious wolves or tyger^, to threaten my ^ 
hfe; no venemous creatures or poifonous, which I might 

have 



\ 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1 27 

have fed on to my hurt, no favagds to murder and de- 
vour me. 

In a word, as my life was a life of forrow one way, fo 
it was a life of mercy another ; and I wanted nothing to 
make it a life of comfort, but to be able to make my 
fenfe of God's goodnefs to mc, and care over me in this 
condition, be my <iaily confolation ; and after I made a 
juft improvement of thefe things, I went away, and was 
no more fad. 

I had now been here fo long, that my things Which I 
brought on Ihore for my help, were either quite gone, or 
very much wafted, and near fpent. 

My ink, as I obferved, had been gone for fome time, 
all but a very little, which I eekcd out with water a little 
and a little, till it was fo pale it fcarce left any appear- 
ance of black upon the paper : As long as it lafted, I 
madfe ufe of it to minute down the days of the month 
on which any remarkable thing happened to me ; and 
firft by calling up times pa(l, I remember that there was 
a ftrange concurrence of days, in the various providences 
which befcl me, and which, if I had been fuperftitioufly 
inclined to obferve day^ as fatal or fortunate, I might 
have 1^ reafon to have looked upon with a great &9I , 
of cunoiity. 

Firft, 1 had obferved, that the fame day that I broke 
away firom my father and my friends, and ran away to 
Hull in order to go to fea, the fame day afterwards I was 
taken by the Sallee man of war, and made a (lave. 

The fame day of the year that I efcaped out of the wreck 
of that fhip in Yarmouth Roads, that lame day of the year 
afterwards I made my efcape from Sallee in the boat. 

The fame day of the year I was bom on, viz. the 
20th of September, the fame day I had my life fo mira- 
culoufly faved 26 years after, when I was call alhore yi 
this iiland; fo that my wicked life, and folitary life; 
both began on a day. 

The next thing to mv ink's being wafted, was that of 
my bread, I mean the oifcuit which I bought out of the 
Ihip : This I had hulbanded to the lafl- degree, allowing 
myfelf but one cake of bread a day, for above a year ; 
and yet I was quite without bread for a year before I 
got any corn of my own ; and great reafon I had to be 
F 4 thankful 



taS ADVENTURES OF 

thankful that I had any at all, the getting it being, as 
has been already obferved, next to miraculous. 

My clothes too began to decay mightily : As^o linen, 
I had none a good while, except fome chequered Ihirts 
which I found in the chefts of the other feamen, and ' 
which I carefully preferved, becaufe many times I coukl 
bear no other clothes on but a Ihirt ; and it w?s a very 
great help to me, that I had among all the men's clothes 
of the fhip almoft three dozen of fliirts. There were 
alfo feveral thick watch-coats of the feamen, which were 
left behind, but they were too hot to wear ; and tho' it is 
true, that the weather was fo violent hot, that there was 
no need of clothes, yet I could not go quite naked ; no, 
thq' I had been inclined to it, which I was not ; nor 
could I abide the thoughts of it, though I was all alone/ 
^ One reafon why I could not go quite naked, was, 1 
could not bear the heat of the fun fo well when quite 
naked, as with fome clothes on ; nay, the very heat fre- 
quently bliftered my ikin ; whereas, with a fhn-t on, the 
air itfelf made fome motion, and whiftling under the 
fhirt) was tWofold cooler than without it : No more could 
I ever bring my felf to go out in the heat of the fun wi tK«^ 
0iit a cap or an hat ; the heat of the fun beating with 
fuch violence as it does in that place, would give me the 
head-ach prefently, by darting fo dire^y on my head, 
without a cap or hat on, fo that I could not bear it ; 
whereas, if I put on my hat> it would prefently go away. 

Upon thefe views I began to confider about jputtrng 
the few rags I had, which I called clothes, into fome or- 
der ; I had worn out all the waiftcoals I had, and my bu^ 
fxnefe was now to try if I could not make jackets out o£ 
the great watc!i-coats which I had by me, and with fuclx 
other. materials as I had ; fo I fet to work a ^ayloring, 
or rather indeed a botching ; for I made moft piteous, 
work of it. However, I made fliift to make two or 
three waiftcoat?, which I hoped would ferve me a great 
while; as for breeches or drawers, I made but.fbrry 
Ihift indeed, till afterwards. 
, I have m€ntioned that I faved the ikins of all the 
creatures that I killed, I mean four-footed ones ; and I 
had bung them up ftreiched out with flicks in the fun ; 
^ whicA ^i€aii& fome pf Xh%^\ wer^ fo dry and hard, 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 129 

that they were fit for little; but others, it feems, were 
very ufeful. The firft thing I made of thefe was a great 
cap for my head, with thehair on the outfkle to (hoot off 
the rain ; and this I performed fo well, that after this I 
made a fuit of clothes wholly of thofe ikins; that is to 
fay, a waiflcoat and breeches open at the knees, and 
both loofe ; for they were rather wanting to keep m€ 
cool, than to keep me warm. I muft not omit to ac- 
knowledge, that they were wretchedly made ; for if I was 
a bad carpenter, I was a worfe taylor : However, they 
were fuch as I made a very good Ihift with ; and when 
I w?s abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of the 
waift'^oat and cap being outmofl, I was kept very dry; 

After this I fpent a deal of time and pains to make me 
an umbrella : I was indeed in great want of one, and 
had a great mind to make one : I had feen them made in 
the Brafils, where thiey are very ufeful in the great heats 
which are there ; and I felt the heats every jot as great 
here, and greater too, being nearer the equinox ; befides, 
as I was obliged to be much abroad, it was a moft ufe- 
ful thing to me, as well for the rains as for heats. I 
took a world of pains at it, and was a great while before 
I could make any thing likely to hold ; nay, after I 
thought I had hit the way, I fpoiled two or three before 
I made one to my mind ; but at lafl I made one that 
anfwered indifferently well ; the mam diffirulty I found 
was to make it to let down. I could make it to fpread ; 
but if it did not let down too, and draw in, it would not 
be portable for me any way, but juft over my head, 
which would not do : However, at laft, as I fn.l, I made 
pne to anfwer ; I covered it with (kins, the hair upwards, 
fo that it cafE off the rain like a penthoufe, and kept off 
the fun fo effectually, that I could walk out in the hot- 
teft of the weather, with greater advantage than I could 
before in the cooleft ; and when I had no need of it, I 
could clofe it, and carry it under my, arm. 

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being 
entirely compofed by refigning to the will of God, and 
throwing^myfelf wholly upon the difpofal of his provi- 
dence : This- made my life better* than fbciable ; for 
when I began to regret the want of converfation, 1 
would afk myfelf, -roether thus converfia^ mutually 



i 



I30 ADVENTURES OF 

with my own thoughts, and, as I hope, I may fay, with 
even my maker, by ejaculations and petitions, was not 
better than the utmoll enjoyment of human fociety in 
th^ world ? 

J cannot fay, that after this-, for five years, any ex- 
traordinary thing hapjoened to me ; but I lived on in the 
fame courfe, in the iame pofture and place, juft as be- 
fore ; The chief thing I was employed in, befides my 
yearly labour of planting my barley and rice, and 
curing my raifms, of both which I alv/ays kept up juft 
enough to have fufRcient ilock of the year's provifions 
beforehand ; I fay, befides this yearly labour, and -my 
daily labour of going out with my gun, I had one la- 
bour to make me a canoe, which at lad I finilhed : So 
that by digging a canal to it fix feet wide,- and four feet 
deep, I brought it into the creek, almoft half a mile. 
As,for the firft, that was fo vaftly big, as 1 made it 
without Confidering beforehand, as I ought to do, how 
I fhould be able to launch it ; fo never being ^ble to 
bring it to the water, or bring the water to it, I wa» 
obliged to let it lie where it was, as a memorandum to 
teach mc to be wifer next time. Indeed the next time, 
tho' I could not get a tree proper iOr it, and was in a 
place where I could not get the water to it, at any lef* 
diftance than, as I have faid, of near half a mile ; yet as 
I faw it was pradicable at laft, I never gave it over ; and 
tho' I was near two years about it, yet 1 never grudged 
my labour, in hopes of having a boat to go off to fea ar 
laft. 

However, though my little pariagua was finiftied, yet 
the iize of it was not at all anfwerable to the deiign 
which I had in view, when I made the firft ; I mean of 
venturing over to the Terra Firma, where it was above 
forty miles bfo;id; accordingly, the fmallnefs of my 
boat affifted to put an end to that deiign, and now I 
thought no more of it : But as I had, a boat, my next 
deiign was to make a tour round the ifland ; /or as I had 
been on the other fide, in one place, croffing, as I have 
alreadj^ defcribed it, over the land, fo the difcoveries I 
made m that journey, made me very eager to fee the 
iother parts of the coaft ; and now I had a boat^ I thought 
cfwmng but ikillng round the iiland. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 131 

For this purpofe, and that I might do every thh g 
with difcretion and confideration, I fitted up a little matt 
to my boat, and made a fail to it out of fome of the 
pieces of the fliip's fails, wliich lay in ftore, ani of which 
I had a great ftore by me. 

Having fitted my mail and fail, and tried the boat, I 
found (he would fail very well : Then I made little, 
lokers and boxes at either end of my boat, to put pro- 
vifions, neceffaries, and ammunition, &c. into, to be kept 
^ dry, either from rain, or the- fpray of the fea ; and a lit- 
tle long hcJlow place I cut in the infide of the boat, 
where I could lay my gun, making a flap to hang down 
over it ta keep it dry. 

i fixed my umbrella alfo in a ftep.at the ftern, like a 
maft, to ftand over my head, and keep the heat of the 
fun ofF me like an awning ; and thus I every now- 
and-then took a little voyage upon the fea, but never 
went far out, nor far from the little- creek : but at laft 
being eager to view the circumference of my little king- 
dom, I refolved upon my tour, and accQrdingly I vie- 
mailed my Ihip for the voyage ; putting in two dozen of 
my loaves (cakes I ihould rather call them). of barley- 
bread ; an earthen pot full of parched rice, a' food I eat 
a great deal of, a little bottle of rum, half a goat, and 
powder with Ihot for killing more, and two large watch- 
coats, of thofe which, as I mentioned before, I had. 
iaved out of the feamen's chefts : thefe I took, one tp lie 
upon, and the other to cover me in the night* 

It was the fixth of November, in the fixth year of my 
reign, or my captivity, which you pleafe, that I fet 
out on this voyage, and I found it much longer than I 
expedled ; for though the ifland it£elf wasnot very large, 
yet when I came to the eaft fide of it, I found a great 
ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues into the fea, 
fome above water, fome under it ; and beyond this a 
ihoal of fand, lying . dry half a leauge more ; fo that I 
was obliged to go a great way out to fea to double that 
'point. 

When 1 firft difcovered them, I was going to give 

over my enterprize, and come back again, not knowing 

how far it might oblige me to go out to fea, and above 

all doubting how I &Quld get back again 5 fo I came 

¥ 6 \^ 



i3» ADVENTURES OP 

to an anchor, for I had made me a kind of an anrhof 
with a piece of broken grappling which I got out of 
the fhip. 

Having fecured my boat^ I took my gun, and went 
on Ihore, climbing ^ an hill, which Yeemed to over- 
look that point, where I faw the full extent of it, and 
refolved to venture. 

In my viewing the fea from that hill where I ftood, f 
perceived a (!rong, and indeed, a moft furious current, 
whidi ran to the ealt, even came clofe to the point; and 
I took the more^notice of it, becaufe I faw Chere might 
be fome danger, that when I came into it, I might be 
carried out to lea by the ftrengtli of it, and not be able 
to make the ifland again : And indeed, had I not gotten 
firft upon this hiH, I believe it would have been fo ; for 
there was the fame current on the other Me of the ifland, 
only that it fet off at a farther diftance ; and I faw there 
was a ftrong eddy Under the Ihore; fo I had nothing to 
do but to get out of the firll current, and I faould pre- 
fently be in an-eddy. 

I lay here, however, two days ; becaufe the wind 
blowing pretty* frefh (E. atrS.E. and that being julir 
contrary to the faid current) made a great breach of the- 
fea upon the point ; fo that it was not fafe for me tof 
keep too cloie to the Ihore for the breach, nor to go toa 
far off becaufe of the ff ream. 

The third day in the morning, the wind having 
abated over night, the fea was calm, and T ventured r 
but I am a warning-piece again to all rafh and ignorant 
pilots ; for no looner was I come to the point,, when 
even I was not my boat's length from the fliorc, but 
I found niyfelf in r great depth of water, and a cur- 
rent like a fluice of a mill : It carried my boat along 
with it with fuch violence, that all I could do, could, i 
not keep her fo much as on the edge of it : but I found 
it hurried me farther and farther out from the eddy, 
which was On the left-hand. There was no wind 
ftirring to help me, and all that I could do with my pad- 
dles fignified nothing ; and I now began to give my- 
felf over for loft ; for, as the current was on both fides- 
the ifland, I knew in a few leagues diftance they 
mull Join again, and then 1 was itttcoverably gone ;• 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. f^y 

iior did I fee any pofTibility of avoiding it ; fo that I had 
no profped before me but of perifliing ; not by the fea^ 
for that was calm enough, but of ftarvmg for hunger. I 
had indeed found a tortoife on the fhore, as bigalmoftas- 
I could lift, and had tofled it into the boat ; and I had a" 
great jar of frefh water, that is to fay, one of my eaithen> 
-pots ; but what was all this ta being driven into the vaft: 
oceair, where, to be fure, there was no fhore, no main^ 
land or iiland, for a thoufand leagues at leaft ! 

An A now I faw how eafy it was for the providence of 
God to make the moil: miferable condition tha man- 
kind could be in, worfe. Now I looked back upon my 
defolate folitary ifland, as the moft' pkafant place in the 
world, and all'the happinefs my heart could wifli for, 
wis to be there again : I ftretched out my ha«d to it 
with eager wiihes ,- O happy defart ! faid I, I fhall ne- 
ver fee thee more ; O miferable creature ! faid I, whi- 
ther am I going! then I reproached myfelf with myun-r 
thankful temper, and how I had repined at my folit iry 
condition ; and now what would I give to be on fhore 
there again ? Thus we never fee the true flate of our 
condition, till it is illuflrated to us by its contraries ,v 
nor know how to value what We enjoy, but by the want 
of it ; it is fcarce poffible to imagine the conflernation I 
was now 'n, being driven from my beloved ifland for 
fo it appeared jto me now to be) into the wide ocean, 
almofl two leagues, and in the utmofl dcfpair of ever 
recovering it again : however, I worked hai-d, till in- 
deed my ftrength was almofl exhaufled ; and kept my 
boat as much to the northward, that is, towaras the 
fide of the current which the eddy lay on, as poffibly 
I could ; when about noon, as the fun pafTed the me- 
ridian, I thought I felt a little beeeze of wind^n my 
face, fpringing up from the S. S. E. This cheared my 
heart a little, and efpecially when in about half an hour 
more it blew a pretty fmall gentle gale : by this time 
I was gotten at a frightful diftance from the ifland ; 
^nd, had the leafl cloud or hazy weather intervened, I 
had been undone another way too ; for T had no com- 
pafs on board, and fhould never have known how to 
have fleered towards the ifland, if I had but once loft 
. fight of h I bat the weather continuing clear, I applied ' 



1J4 ADVENTURES OF 

Jny[el{ to get up my maft again, and fpread my fsa}, 
Handing away to the north as much as poflible, to get out 
of the current. ' 

Juft as I had fet my maft and fail, and the boat began 
to ftretch away, i faw even by the clearnefs of the wa- 
ter, fome alteration of the current was near ; for where 
the current was fo ftrong, the water was foul ; but per- 
ceiving the water clear, I found the current abate, and 
prefently I found to the eaft, at about half a mile, a 
breach of the fea upon fome rocks ; thefe rocks 1 found 
caufed the current to part again ; and as the main ftrefs 
ef it ran away more foutherly, leaving the rocks to the 
north-eaft, fo the other returned by the repulfe of the 
rock, and made a ftrong eddy, which ran back agaia to 
the nqrth-weft with a very ftiarp ft ream. 

They who knovy what it is to have a reprieve brotfght 
to them upon the ladder, or to be refcued from thieves 
juft going to murder tlicm, or who have been in fuch like 
extremities, may guefs what my prefent furprife of joy 
was, and how gladly I put my boat into the ftream of 
this eddy ; and the wind alfo frelhening, how gladly I 
fpread my fail to it, running chearfully before the wind, 
and with a ftrong tide or eddy under foot. 

This eddy carried me about a league in my way back 
again diredly towards the iiland, but about. two leagues 
more towards the nortliward than the current lay, which 
carried me away at firft ; fo that when I came near the 
ifland, I found myfelf open to the northern ftiore of it,, 
that is to fay, the other end of the ifland, oppofite ta 
^ that which I went out from. 

When I had made fomething more than a league of 
way by the help of this current or eddy, I found it was 
fpent, and faved me no farther. However^ I found, that 
being between the two great currents, viz. that on the 
fouth-iide which had hurried me away, and that on the 
north, which lay abou|: two leagues on the other fide ; I 
fay, between thefe two, in the weft of the ifland, I found 
the water at leaft ftill, and running no way ; and hav- 
ing ftill a breeze of wind fair for me, 1 kept on fteer- 
ing direftljr for the ifland, though not making fuch frefti 
way as I did before. ' . ^ 

Ajbout fout o'clock ia the everung, being then within 



ROBINSON CRUSOE.- 135 

about a league of the ifland, I found the point of the 
rocks which occalioned this diftance ftretching out as i^ 
defcrlbed before, to the fouthward, ^d, calling off the 
current more fouthwardly, had of courfe made anpther 
eddy to the north, and this I found very ftrong, but direfl- 
ly fetting the way my courfe lay, which was due well, 
but almofl full north. 'However, having a frefh gale I 
ftretched acrofs this eddy, flanting north weft, and in 
about an hour came within about a mile of the fhore, 
where, it being fmooth water, I foon got to land. 

When I was on fhore, I fell on my knees, and gave 
God thanks for my deliverance, refolving to lay afide 
all thoughts of my deliverance, hy my boat ; and refrefh- 
ing myfelf with fuch things as I had, 1 brought my boat 
clofe to the fhorft, in a little cove that I had efpied under 
forae trees, and laid me down to deep, being quite fpent 
with the labour and fatigue of the voyage. 
. I was now at a great lofs which way to get home with 
my boat ; 1 had ran fo much hazard, and knew too 
much the cafe to think of attempting it by the way I 
went out ; and what might be at the other fide (I mean 
the weft-fide) I knew not, nor had I any mind to run 
any more ventures ; fo I only refolved in the morning to 
. make my way weft ward along the fhore, and to fee if 
tliere was no creek where I might lay up my frigate in 
fafety, fo as to have her again if I wanted her. In about 
three miles, or thereabouts, coafting the fhore, I came- 
to a very good inlet, or bay, about a mile over, whicb 
narrpwed till it came to a very little rivulet, or brook, 
where I found a convenient harbour for my boat, and 
where fhe lay as if fhe had43een in a little dock made on 
purpofe for her : here I put in, and having ftowed my 
boat very fafe, I went on fhore Jo look about me, and 
fee whel-e I was. 

I fbon found I had but a little paffed by the place 
where I had been before when I travelled on foot to that 
fhore ; fo taking nothing oiit of my boat but my gun 
and my umbrella, for it was exceeding hot, I began my 
march ; the way was comfortable enough after fuch a 
voyage as I had been upon, and I reached my old bower 
in the evening, where I found every thing ftanding as I 
left it ; for I always kept if in good order, being, as I 
feid before, my country -\io\xfc* ^ V^^g^ 



f36 ADVENTURES OF 

I got over the fence, and laid me down in the Ihadc 
, to reft my limbs, for I was very weary, and fell afleep 2 
but judge you, if you can^ that read my ftory, what a 
furprize I muft be iiij when I was awaked out of my 
fleep by a voice calling me by my name fcver:il times, 
Robin, Robin, Robin Crufoe, poor Robin Crufoe ! 
Where are you, Robin Crufoe ? Where are you ? 
Where have you been ? 

I was fo dead afleep at firfV, being fetigued vnth row^ 
ing, or paddling, aa iris called, the firft part of the day, 
and walking the latter part, that I did not awake tho- 
roughly ; and dozing between fleeping and waking, 
thought I dreamed that fomebody fpoke ta me : but as 
' the voice continued to repeat Robin Crufoe, Robin Cru- 
foe ; at laft I began to awake more perfe6lly, and w s at 
firft dreadfully frighted, and ftarted up in the utmoft 
confternation : but no fooner were my eyes ope », but I 
few niy Poll fitting on the top of the hedge, and immedi- 
ately knew that mis was he that fpoke to me ; for juftjn 
fuch bemoaning language I Had ufed to talk to him, 
and teach him ; and he had learned it fo perfedlly that 
he would fit upon my finger, and l^y his hill clofe to 
my face, rnd cry, Poor Robin Cr. foe, Where are you? 
Where have you been ? How came you here? and fuch 
things as I had taught" him. 

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and 
that indeed it could be nobody elfe, it was a good while 
before I could compofe myfe If . Firft, I was amazed how 
the creature got thither, and then how he ftiould juft keep 
about the place, and no where elfe : but as I was well 
fatisfied it could be nobodv but honeft Pol, I got it over ; 
and holding out my hana, and calling him by his name, 
Pol, the fociable creature came to me, and fat upon my 
thumb, as he ufed to do, and continued talking to me, 
Poor Robin Crufoe, and, how did I come here ? and, 
where had I been? juft as If he had been overjoyed to fee 
me again; and fo I carried him homeal ng with me. 

I- had now had enough of rambling to fea for fome 

time, and had enough to do for many days to fit ftill, 

and refle<fl upon the danger I had been in : I would 

have been very glad to gave had my boat again, on / 

m^ dde of the ifland, but 1 Iwtw wit how it was 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 137 

prsAicable to get t abmit : as to the eaft-fide of. the 
iftand, which I had gone round^ I knew well enough 
there was no venturing that way); my very heart would 
fhrink and my very blood run chill, but to think of it ^ 
and to the other Me of the ifland, I did not know how 
it might be there ; but fuppofing the current ran with 
the fame force againft the flvore at the ejift, as it } aflfed 
by it on the other, I might run the fame rifque of be« 
ing driven down the ftream, and carried by the ifland, 
as I had been before of being carried away from it ; fo 
with thefe thoughts I contented myfelf to be without 
any boat, though it had been the produ^ of many- 
months labour to make it, and of fo many more to get 
it into the fea. 

In this government of my temper I remained near a 
year, lived a very fedate retired life, as you may well 
fuppoie ; and my thoughts being very much compofed, 
f s to my condition, and fully comforted in refigning 
myfelf to the difpolitions of Providence, I thought I lived 
really very happily in all things, except that of fociety. 

I improved myfelf, in this time, m all the niechanic 
cxercifes which my neceuities put me upon applrini^.: 
myfelf to; and I believe coulcl, upon occafion, have 
made a very good carpenter, efpecially coufidering how 
few tools I had. 

Befides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection i» 
my earthen-ware, and contrived well enough to make 
them with a wheel, which I fbuttd infimielysaSer 2nd bet- 
ter ; becaufe I made things round and ihapeable, which 
before were filthy things indeed to look on. But I think 
I never was piore vain of my own performance, or more 
joyhil for any thing I found ©ut, than for my being able 
to make a tobacco-pipe ; aiitd tho* it was a very ugly 
clumfy thing when it was done, and only burnt red like 
other earthen-ware, yet as it was hard and firm, and w. uld 
draw the fmoke, I was exceedingly comforted with it ; 
for I had always been ufed to fmoke, and there were pipes 
in the fhip, but I forgot them at firfi, not knowing there 
was tobacco in the ifland ; and afterwards when I fearched' 
the fhip again, I could not come at any pipes at all. 

In my wicker-ware lalfo improved much and made 
abundaKice of penary baflcets, !^s well as iiy invejition 



138 ADVENTURES OF 

fhewed me, tho' not very handfome, yet convenient for 
my laying things up in, or fetching things home in. For 
example, if I killed a goat abroad, I could han|; it up 
in a tree, flay it, and drefs it, and cut it in pieces, and 
bring it home in a bafket ; and the lika by a turtle, I 
could cut it up, take out the eggs, and a piece or two 
of theflefh, which was enough for me, and. bring them 
home in a bafket, and leave the reft behind me : alfo 
large- deep bafkets were my receivers for my corn^ which 
I always rubbed out as foon as it was dry, and cured ; 
and kept it in great ba/kets inftead of a granary. 

I began now to perceive my powder abated confider- 
ab!y ; and this wa$ a want which it was impolfible for 
me to fupply, and I began ferioufly to confider what I 
mull do vvhen I (hould have no more powder ; that is to 
fay, how I ihculd do to kill any goats. I had, as I ob- 
ferved in the third year of my being here, kept a young 
kid, and bred her up tame ; I was in hopes of getting 
an he kid, but I could not by any means bring it to 
pafs, till my kid grew an old goat; and I could never 
find in my heart to kill her, till flie died at laft of mere 
age. 

But being now in tKe eleventh year of my refidence, 
and, as I have faid, my ammunition growing low, I fet 
myfelf to ftudy fome art to trap and fnare the goats, to 
fee whether I could not catch fome of them alive, and 
particularly I wanted a fhe-goat great with young. 

To this purpofe I made fhares to hamper them ; and 
believe they were more than once taken in them ; but my 
tackly was not good, for I had no wire, and always 
found them broken, and my bait devoured. 

At length I refolved to try a pit-fall, fo I dug feveral 
large pits in the earth, in places where T had obferved 
the goats ufedtofeed, and overthefepitsi placed hurdles 
of my own making too, with a great weight upon them 
and feveral times I put ears of barley, anddry rice, with- 
out fetting the trap ; and I could eafily perceive, that the 
goats had gone in, and eaten up the com, that I could 
fee the mark of their feet : at length, I fet three traps 
in one night, and going the next morning, I found them 
all ftanding, and yet the bait eaten and gone : this was* 
ver/ dlfcouraging ; however, I altere4 ^Y ^^^P» ^^> ^^^ 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. ^39 

to trouble you with particular^, going one morning to fee 
my traps, I found, in one of them, a large old he-goat ; 
and, in one of the other, three kids, a male and two remales. 

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him; he 
was fo fierce I durft not go ir.to the pit to him ; that is 
to fay. to go about to bring him away alive, which was 
what I wanted ; I could have killed him, but that was 
not my bufinefs, nor would it anfvver my end ; fo I 
e'en let him out, and he ran away as if he had been 
frightened out ofhiswits; but I did not then know 
what I afterwards learned, that hunger would tame a 
lion : if I had let him ftay there three or four days with- 
out food, and then have carried him fome water to 
dnnk, and then a little corn, he would have been as 
tame as one of the kids ; for they are mighty fagacious 
tra6lable creatures, where they are well ufed. 

However, for the prefent i let him go, knowing no 
better at that time; then I went to the three kids; and, 
taking them one by one, I tied them with firings to- 
gether; and with fome difficulty brought them all home. 
. It was a good while before they would feed, but 
throwing them fome iweet corn, it tempted them, ^nd. 
they began to be tame : and now I found, that if I ex- 
pected to fupplymyfelf with goats flefh, when I had no 
powder or (hot left, breeding fome up tame was my 
only wav, when perhaps I might have them about my 
toufe like a flock of iheep. 

But then it prefentlv occurred to me, that I mufl keep. 
the tame from the wild, or elfe they would always run 
wild when they grew up; and the only way for this was 
to have fome inclofed piece of ground, well fenced eir 
ther witli hedge or pale, to keep them up fo efFecflually ; 
that thofe within might not break out, or thofe with- 
out break in. 

This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands ; 
yet as I faw there was an obfolute iieceflity of doing it, 
my firfl piece of work was to find out a proper piece of 
ground ; viz. where there was likely to be herbage for 
them to eat, water for them to drink, and cover to 
keep them from the fun, 

Thofe who underlland fuch inclofures, will think I 
bad very little contrivance, when I, pitched upon a 
a place- veryproper foralIthefe,b^"m^a igkvQ.o\^^a^\fi.ce 



I4d ADVENTURES OF 

of meadow-land or favaftna (as our people call it in the 
wefteri^ colonies) which had two or three little drills of 
frefh water in it, and at one end was very woody ; f 
hy they will fmile at my forecaft, when I Ihall teir 
them I began my inrlofing of this piece of ground in 
fuch a manner, that my hddge, or pale muft have been 
at leaft two mjiks about ; nor was the madnefs of it 
ib great as ^O'the compafs; for if it was ten miles about, 
I was lifce to have time enough to do it in ; but I di^ 
hot coiTifider, that my goats would be as wild info much 
cpntpafs, as if they had had the whole iiland ; and I 
fliould have fo much room to chace them in, that I 
flioukl never catch them. 

My hedge was began and carried on, I believe, aboMt^ 
fifty yards, when this thought occured to me; fo I pre- 
lently flopped fliort, and for the fii*ft beginning I refolved 
toinclofVapiece of about 150 yards in length, and 100 

rtrds in breadth, which as it would maintain as many as 
ihould have in any reafonable time, fo, as my flock 
increafed, I could add more ground to my inclofurc. 

This was ailing with fotne prudence, and I went ta 
werk with courage ; I was nbout three month^hedgiiig- 
m the firft piece ; and, till I had done it, I tethered the 
three kids in the beft part of it, and ufed them to feed 
as near me as poffible, to make them femiliar ; and very 
often I would go and carry them fome ears of barlev, 
or an handful of rice, and feed them out of my hana ; 
fb that after mykiclohire was finilhed, and I Jet them 
loofe, tliey would follow mc up and down, bleating after 
rae for an handful of corn. 

This anfwered my end, and in about a year and a- 
half I had a flock or about twelve goats, kids and all;: 
and in two years more I had three and forty, beiides. 
ieveral that I took and killed for my food ; and after 
Ih^t I incloftd five feveral pieces of ground to feed them 
in, with little pens to drive theni into, to take them as.- 
I wanted thena.;. and gates out of one jiece of ground: 
into another. 

But this was not all ; fop now I not only had goat V 
fiefh to feed on when I pteaftd, but milk too, a thing: 
which indeed in my beginning I* did not fo much as think 
<ff, gfld whkhf wheA it came into my thoughts, >Vas 



R O B I N S O >r CRUSOE. 141 

Yeally an agreeable furpnze ; for now I fet up my dairy, 
^nd had fometimfes a galJon or two of milk in a day. 
And as nature, who gives fupplies of food to every crea- 
ture, dictates even naturally how to make ufe of it ; io I, 
that never milked a cow, much lefsa goat, or faw batter 
or cheefe made, very readily and handily, tho' after a 
great maity efTays and mifcarriages, made me both butter 
^nd cheefe at laft, and never wanted it afterwards. 
. How mei'cifullv can our great Creator treat his crea- 
tures, even in thole conditions in which they feemed to 
be overw helmed in dellniftion ! How can he fweeten 
the bittereft providences, and give us caufe to praifc him 
for dungeons and prifons ! What a tabic was here fpread 
for me in a wildernefs, where I faw nothing at firft but 
<o perifli for hunger ! 

It would have made a ftoic fmile, to have feen me and 
»iy little family fit down to dinner : there was my ma- 
jtfty, the prince and lord of the whole ifland ; I had th€ 
lives of all my fubjc£^s at abfoiute command ; I could 
4iang, draw, . Ive life ?nd liberty, and take it away^ 
and no rebch among all my fubje6ls. 

Then to fee how like a king 1 dined took, all alone, 
attended by my fen'-ants ! Pol, as if he had been my 
favourite, as the only perfon permitted to talk to me; 
my dog, which was now grown very old and crazy, and 
found no fpecies to multiply his kind upon, fat always 
at my right-hand ; and two cats, one on one fide the 
table, and one on the other, expe<?ling now and then a 
%it from my hand, as a mark of fpecial favour. 

But thefe were not the two cats which I brought on 
ihore at firft ,• for they were both of them dead, and had 
^een interred near my habitation by my own hands ; but 
one of them having multiplied by I know not what kintt^ 
of creature, thefe were two which I preferved tame, 
whereas the reft ran wild into the woods, and became 
indeed troublefome to me ^t laft ,• for they would often 
come into my boule and plunder m.e too, till at laft I 
was obliged to ftioot them, and did kill a great many ; 
at kn^th tl^cy left me with this attendance, and in this 
plentiful manner I lived ; neither could I be faid to want 
dny thing but fociety, and of that, in fome time after 
this, I was like to have too much. » 



142 ADVENTURES OF 

I was fomething impatient, as I had obferved, to hare 
the ufe of my boat, tho* very loth to run any more ha- 
zard ; and therefore fometimes I fat contriving ways to 
fet her about the ifland, and at other times I fat myfelf 
own contented enough without her. But I had a flrange 
uneafmefs in m^-^ mind to go down to the point of tlie 
ifland, where, as I have faid in my laft ramble, I went 
up the hill to fee how the fhore lay, and how the cur- 
rent fet, that I might fee what I haii to do : this incli- 
nation increafed upon me every day, and at 1 ^ngth I re-' 
folved to travel thither by land, and following tho edge 
of the ihorc, I did fo : bat had anyone in England been 
to meet fuch a man as 1 was, it mud either have frighted 
them, orjraifed a great deal of laughter ; and s.sl fre- 
quently ftood ftill to look at myfelf, I/:ould not but fmile 
at the notion of my travelling thro' Yorkfhire with fuch 
an equipage, ^nd in fuch a drefs. Ee pleafed to take 
a fketch of ^y figure, as follows : 

I had a great high fhapelefs cap, made of goat's fkin, 
with a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep the 
fun from me, as to fhoot the rain off from running into 
my neck ; nothing being fo liurtful in thefe climates, 
as the rain upon the flefh under the clothes. 

I had a fhort jacket of goal's fkin, the fkirts coming 
down to about the middle -of my thighs ; and a^ pair of 
open-kneed breeches of the fame : the breeches were 
made of a fldn of an old he-goat, whofe hair hung 
down fuch a length on either fide, that, like pantaloons, 
it reached to tlie middle of my legs. Stockings and fhoes 
I had none ; but I had ma^e me a pair of fomething, I 
fcarce knew what to call them, like bufkins, to flap over 
my legs> and lace on einier fide like fpatterdafhes ; 
^ but of a moft barbarous fhape, as indeed were all the 
reft of my clothes. 

I had on a broad belt of goat's fkin dried, which I . 
drew together with two thongs of the fame, inflead of 
buckles ; and in a kind of a frog on either fide, of 
this, inftead of a fword and dagger, hung a little faw 
and a hatchet, one on one fide, one on the other : X 
had apother belt not fo J)road, and faflened in the fame 
manner, which hung over my fhouldsr; and at the 
end hf It, under my left arm, hung two pouches, both 



R O B I N S O N C R U S O E. 143 

made of goat*s fkin too ; in one of which hung my 
powder> in the other my fhot : at my back I carried 
my bafket, on my (lioulder my gun, and over my head 
a great clumly ugly goat's-fkin umbrella, but which, 
after all, was the moft neceflary thing I had about me, 
next to jny gun : as for my face, the colour of it was 
really not fo Mullato-like, as one might cxped from a 
man no^: at all careful of it, and living within nine or 
ten degrees of the Equinox. My b^ard I had once fuf- 
fered to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long ; . 
but as I had both fciflars and razors fufficient, I had cut 
it pretty (hort, except what grew on my upper lip, which 
I had trimmed into a large pair of Mahometan whifkers, 
fuch as I had feen worn by fome Turks, whom I faw at _ 
Sallee : for the Moors did not wear fuch, tho' tfie Turks 
did : of thefe muftachios, or whiflcers, I will not fay 
they were long enough to hang my hat upon them ; l)ut ^ 
they were of length and fhape m6nftrous enough, and 
fuch as in England would have pafTed for frightful. 

But all this is by the bye ; for as to my figure, I had 
fo few to obferve me, that it was of no manner of con- 
fequence ; fo I fay no more to that part : in this kind of 
figure I went my new journey, and was out five or fix 
days. I travelled firft along the fca-fhore, dire<ftly to the 
place where I firH brought my boat to anchor, to get 
up upon the rocks ; and, having no boat nov/ to take care 
of, I went over the land a nearer way, to the fame 
height that I was upon before ; v/hen looking forward to 
the point of the rock which lay out, and which I was to 
double with my boat, as I faia above, I was furprized to 
fee the fea all fmooth and quiet ; no ripling, no mo- 
tion, no current, anymore there than in other places. 

I was at a flrange lofs to underftand this, and refolved 
to fpend'fome time in the obferving of it, to fee if nothing 
from the fets of tlie tide had occafioned it : but I was 
prefently convinced how it w^s ; viz. that the tide of 
ebb fetting from the weft, and joining, with the current 
of waters from fome great river en the Ihore, mud be 
the occafion of this current ; and that jaccordj^g as the 
wind blev/ more forcible from the weft, or from the 
north, this current came near, or went farther from 
the Ihore j for, waiting thereabouts till evening, I went 



144 ADVENTURES OF 

up to the rock again, and then the tide of ebb being 
made, I plainly faw the current again as before, only 
that it ran farther off, being near half a league from the 
ibore ; whereas in my cafe, it fetclofe upon the fliore, 
and hurried me in my canoe along with it, which at 
another time it would not have done. 

This obfervation convinced me, that I had nothing 
to do but to obferve the ebbing and the flowing of t!i6 
tide, and I might very eafily bring my boat about the 
ifland again : but when I began to thinic of putting it 
in practice, I had fuch a terror upon my fpirits at the 
remembrpnc<^ of the danger I had been in, that I could 
^lOt think of it again with any patience ; but on the con* 
trary, I took up another reiolution, which was more 
fafe,' tho* more laborious ; and this was, that I would 
build, or rather make me another periagua, or canoe ; 
and fo have one for one fide of the ifland, and one for 
the other. 

You are to underftand, that now I had, as I may call it, 
two plantations in the ifland j one my little fortification 
xxir tent, with the wall about it under the rock, with 
the cave behind me, which by this time I had inlarged 
into feveral apartments or caves, one within another, 
Ont of rhefe, which was the dried and largefl, and had 
a door oiit beyond my wall or fortification, that is to 
fay, beyond where my wall joined to the rock, was all 
fille 1 up with the large earthen pots, of whi h I have 
given an account, and with fourteen or fifteen great 
baflcets. whicli would hold five or fix bufliels each, 
where I laid up my ftores of provifions, efpecially my 
corn, fome in the ear cut off fhort from the ftraw, and 
the other rubbed out with my hand. 

As for my wall, made, as before, with long ftakes or 
piles, thofe piles grew all like trees, and were by this 
time grown lo big, and fpread fo very much, that there 
was not the leafl: appearance, to any one's view, of any 
habitation behind them. 

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within 

the land, and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of 

corn-ground; which I kept duly cultivated and fowed, 

and which duly yielded me then* harveft in its feafon : 

and whenever I had occafiou io\ moict cocu^ I had more 

hnd adjoining as fit as that, ^^- 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 145 

Beiides thbj I had my country- feat, and I had now a 
tolerable plantation there alfo ; for firft, I had my little 
bower, as I called it, which I kept in repair ; that is to 
fay, I kept the hedge which circled it in, conftantly iit^ 
ted up to its ufual height, the ladder Handing always in 
the.infide ; I kept the trees^ which at firlt were no more 
than my flakes, but were now grown very firm and tall ; 
I kept them always fo cut, that they might fpread and 
grow thick and wild, and make the more agreeable 
Ihade, which they did efFedually to my mind. In the 
middle of this I had my tent always Handing, being a 
piece of a fail fpread over poles fet up for that purpofe, 
and which never wanted any repair or renewing ; and un- 
der this I had made me a fquab or couch, with the fkins 
of the creatures I had killed, and with other foft things, 
and a blanket laid on them, fuch as belonged to our fea- 
bedding» which I had feved, and a great watch-coat to 
cover me ; and Here, whenever I had occafion tc^be ab^. 
fent from my chief feat, X>jtook up my country habitation. 
Adjoining to this I had my enclofures for my cattle, 
that is to fay, my goats : And as I had taken an incon- 
ceivable deal of pains to fence and inclofe this ground, I 
was fo uneafy to fee it kept entire, left the goats Ihould 
^eak thro', that I never left off, till with infinite labour 
I had ftuck the outfide of the hedge fo full of fmall 
ftakes, and fo near to one another, that it was rather a 
pale than an hedge, and there was fcarce room to put an ' 
hand thro' between them, which afterwards, when thofe 
flakes grew, as they all did in the next rainy feafon, 

fade the inclofure ftrong, like a wall, indeed ftronger 
an any wall. 

This will teftify for me that I was not idle, and that 
I fpared no pains to bring to pafs what ever appeared ne- 
^fTary for my comfortable fupport ; for I confidered the 
keeping up a breed of tame creatures thus at my 
ftnd, would be a living magazine of flefh, milk, but- 
ter and cheefe, for me, as long as I lived in the place, . 
It it were to be forty years ; and that keeping them in 
niy reach, depended entirely upon my perfedling my 
inclofures to fuch a degree, that I might be fure of 
keeping them together ; >^ich by this method indeed 
I fo elFeaiually fecured, that when thefe little ftakes 

Vol. I. G # V.^^^ 



145 ADVENTURESOF 

began ta grow, I had planted them fo very thick, I was 

forced to pull fome or them up again. 

In this place alfo I had my grapes growing, which I 
principally depended on for my winter fJore of raifins,^ 
and which I never failed to prefcrve very carefully, as the 
beft and moft agreeable damty of my whole diet ; and 
indeed they were not agreeable only^but phyfical, whole- 
fome, nourifliing and refrelhing to the laft degree. 

As this was alio about half-way between my other ha- 
bitation and the place where I had laid up my boar, I 
generally ftaid and lay here in my way thither ; for I 
ufed frequently to vifit my boat, and I kept all things 
about or belonging to her in very good order ; fotne- 
times I went out in her to divert my felf, but no more 
hazardous voyages would I go, nor Icarce ever above a 
ftone's cafl or two from the fhore, I was foappreKenfive 
of being hurried out of my knowledge again by the 
currents, or winds, or any other accident : but now I . 
come to a new fcene of my life'. 

^jttiJiappened one day about noon, going towards my 
"^(Pl^il was exceedingly furprized with the print of a 
ili^ri's naked foot on the Hiore, which was very plain to 
be feen in the fand : I flood like one thunderftruck, ^ 
as if I had feen an apparition ; I liftened, I looked rour« 
,me, I could hear nothing, nor fee any thing ;^I went up 
to a rifing ground to look farther : I went up the ftiore, 
and down the fhore, but it was all one, JL.couJd fee no 
other impreffion but that one : I went to it again to fee 
if there were any more, and to obferrx if it might not ifev 
my fancy ; but there was no room for that, for there y,A 
Oa^ly the very print of a foot, toes, heel, and e\^i|^ 
part of a foot ; how it came thither I knew not, ri, ^ 
could in the leafl imagine. But after innumerable flutMK 
ing thoughts, like a man perfe(5lly confufed, and out W 
myfelf, 1 came home to my fortification, not feeling,/j(^ 
we fay, the ground 1 went on, but terrified to the lafl (kta^ 
gree, looking behind me at every two or three fleps, mii^ 
taking every bufh and tree^ and fancying every ftump 
at a di fiance to be a man ; nor is it polTible to defer ibe^ 
how many various fhapes an affrighted imagination re- 
prcfented things to me in ; bow many wild ideas were 
formed every nooi-aMt iamy fancy, and ^X^hat a flraage 




m^l^m 






Tlii. .^..'i VJRK 

PUSUCLIdRARY 






*»^ 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 147 

unaccountable whimfies came into my thoughts by the 
way. 

When I came to my caftle, for fo I think I called it ever 
after this, I fled into it like one purfued ; whether I went 
over by the ladder, as firft contrived, or went in at the 
hole in the rock, which I called a door, 1 cannot re- 
member ; for never frighted hare fled to cover*, or fox to 
earth, with more terrorW mind than 1 to this retreat. 

I had no fleep that night ; the farther I was from the 
occafion of my fright, the greater my apprehenfions 
were ; which is fomething contrary to the nature of fuch 
things, andefpecially to the ufual pra^lice of all creatures 
in fear : But I was fo embarrafled with my own fright- 
ful ideas of the thing, that Hormed nothing but difmai 
imaginations to myfelf^ even tho' I u'as now a great 
way off it. Sometimes I fancied it mufl be the devil ; 
and reafon joined in with me upon this fuppofition : For 
how ftiould any other thing in human fliape come into 
the place ? Where ^i^as the veflTel that brought them ? 
What marks were there of any other footfteps ? And 
how was it poflible a man fliould come there ? tut then 
to think that Satan fliould take human fliape upon him 
in fuch a place where there could be no manner of o'^ca- 
fion for it, but to leave the print of his foot behind him, 
andjhat even for no purpofe too (for he could not be 
fure 1 fliould fee it), this was an amazement the other 
way : I conlidered that the devil might have found out 
abundance of other Ways to have terrified me, than this 
of the (ingle print of a foot : That as I lived quite on 
the other fiie of the ifland, he would never have been fo 
Ample to leave a mark in a pla-e where it was ten t!:ou- 
fan^i to one whether I fliould ever fee it or not, and in 
the fand too, which the firft furgeof the fea upon an high 
wind would have defaced entirely. All this feemed in- 
confifitent with the thing itfelf, and with all notions we 
ufually entertain of the fubtlety of the devil. 

Abundance of fuch things as thcfe afTifled to ^gue 
ine out of all apprehenfions of its being the^devll : And 
I prefently concluded then, that it mufl 1 e fjme more 
dangerous creature ; viz. That it mufl be foinc of the 
lavages of the main Imd over-ag^iafl me, who had 
wandered out to fea in their canoes, and, either dcivca 
G a V^ 



148 ADVENTURES OF 

by the currents, or by contrary winds, had made the 
ifland ; and had been on Ihore, but were gone away again 
to fea, being as loth, perhaps, to have ftaid in this defo- 
late ifland, as I would have been to have had them. 

While thefe reflections were rolling upon my mind, I 
was very thankful in my thought, that I was fo happy as 
not to be thereabouts at that time, or that they did not 
fee my boat, by which they would have concluded, that 
fome inhabitants had been in the place, and perhaps have 
fearched farther for me : Then terrible thoughts racked 
my imaginations about their having found my boat, and 
that there were people here ; jmd that if fo, I ihould cer- 
tainly have them come again in greater numbers, and 
devour me ; that if it ihould happen fo that they fhould 
not find me, yet they would find my inclofure, deflroy all 
my corn, carry away all my flock of tame goats, and I 
ihould perifh at laft for mere want. 

Thus my fear banifhed all my religious hope ; all that 
former confidence in God, which was founded upon 
fiich wonderful experience, as I had had of his good- 
nefs, now vanifhed ; as if he that had fed me by miracle 
hitherto, could not preferve by his po^er the proviiion 
which he had made for me by his goodnefs. I re- 
proached myfelf with my eafmefs, that I would not fow 
any more corn one year, <han would juft ferve me till 
the next feafon, as if no accident could intervene to pre- 
vent my enjoying the crop that was upon the ground : 
And this I thought fo juft a reproof, that I refolved for 
the future to have two or three years corn before-hand, 
fo that whatever might come, I might not perifli for want 
of bread. 

How ftrange a chequer-work of providence is the 
life of man! And by what fecret differing fprings arc 
the afFedions hurried about, as differing circumftances 
prefent 1 To day we love what to-morrow we hate ; to 
day we feek what to-morrow we fliun ; to-day we de- 
fire .what to-morrow we fear ; nay, even tremble at the 
apprehenfions of. This was exemplified in me at this 
time in the moft lively manner imaginable ; for I, 
whofe only afflidion was, that I feemed baniflied from 
human fpciety; that I was alone, circumfcribed by the 
boancHcis ocean, cut off from mankind, and condemned 

to 



R OBI N S N C R U S O E. 149 

to what I caB a filent life ; that I was as pne whom hea- 
ven thohghf not worthy to be numbered among the liv- 
ing, or to appear among the reft of his creatures ; that 
to have feen one of my own fpecies, woXildhave feemed 
to me a railing me from death to life, and the greateft 
bleifmg that heaven itfelf, next to the fupreme bleffing 
of falvation, could bellow ; I fay, that I Ihould now 
tremble at the very apprehenfions of feeing a man, and 
was ready to link into the ground, at but the Ihadow, or 
filent appearance of a man's having fet his foot on the 
illand. 

. Such is the uneven ftate of human life ; and it afford* 
ed me a great many curious fpeculations afterwards, when 
I had a little recovered my firtt furprfee. I conlidered 
that this was the ftation of life, the infinitely wife and 
good providence of God had determined for me ; that as ^ 
I could not forefee what the ends of divine wifdom might 
be in all this, fo I was not to difpute his fovereignty, who, 
as I was his creature, had an undoubted right by crea- 
tion to govern and di^pofe of me abfolutely as he .thought 
iit ; and who, as I was a creature who had offended him, 
had likewife a judicial right to condemn me to what 
punilhment he thought fit ; and that it was iRy part to 
fubmit to be^ his indigBation, bec'aufe I had linned 
againft him. 

I then refle^led, |hat God, who was not only righte- 
ous, but omnipotent, as he had thought fit thus to punilh 
and alHift me^ fo he j^asu^ble to deliver me ; that if he 
did not think fit to do it, it was my unquejlioned duty to 
refign myfelfablbWely and entirely to his will: Apd, 
on the other hand, it was my duty ,alfo to hope in him, 
pray to him, and qui^y to attend the diftates and di- 
redlions of his daily providence. 

Thefe thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I 
may fay, weeks and months ; and one particular effed of 
my cogitations on this occafion, I cannot omit ; viz. one 
morning.'early, lying in my bed, and filled with thoughts 
about my danger from the appearance of favages, I found 
it difcompofed me very much ; upon which thofe words 
of the fcripture came into my thoughts. Call upon me in 
the 'day of trouble, and I ivill deliver thee, and thou Jloalt 
glorify tne. 



I50 ADVENTURES OF 

Upon this, rifing chearfully out of my bed, my henrt 
was not only conriforted, but I was guided and encou- 
raged to pray earneftly to God for deliverance : When 
I had done jpraying, i took up my bible, and opening it 
to read, the firft words that prefented to me, were, yynit 
Q/t the Lord, ard ie cf gccd ch<cr, and he Jl.all ftrenithen thy 

I heart : IVah. I fefv, on. the Lord. It is impoflible to ex-» 
prefs the comfort this gave me ; and in return, I thank- 
fully laid down the book, and was no more fad, at leaft, 
not on that Qccafion. 
^ In the middle of thefe cogitations, apprehenfions, and 
refte^ons, it came into my thoughts one day, that all 
this might be a mere chimera of my own, and th?it this 
foot might be the^rint of my own foot, when I came on 
fhore from my boat : This cheaied me up a little too, 
and 1 began to perfuade myfelf it was all a delufion ; 
that it was nothing elfe but my own foot ; and why 
might not I come that way from the boat, as well as I 
was going that way to the boat ? Again, I confidered 
alfo, that I cojI J by no means tell for certain where I 
had trod, and v/here l had not ; and that if at laft this 
was only the print of my own foot, I had played the 
part of thofe tooh-, who flrive to make ftories of ipeftres 

, and apparitions, and then are themfelves frighted at 
them more than any body e\h. 

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad 
agsin ; for I had not fllrred out of my c?.ftle for three 
days and night's, fo thit I began toft:;rve for provifion ; 
for 1 had little or nothing within doors^ but fome barley- 
cakes and water. Then \ knew that niy gOGts wanted 
to be milked too, which ufually was my evening diver- 
ficn ; and the poor creatures were in great pain and in- 
convenience for want of it ; and indeed it almoflfpoiled 
fome of them, and almoii dried up their milk. 

Heartening myfelf therefore with the belief, that this 
was nothing^'but the print of ont of my own feet (and 
fo I might be truly faid to ftart at my own fhadovv,) 
I beg? n to go abroad again, and went to my country, 
houfe to n.ilk my floik ; ^ut to fee with what fear 
I went forward, how often 1 looked behind me, how I 
was ready f every now-and-then, to lay down my baf- 

ktt, and run (or my Ufe» it wouVd U«v^ uvsidQ any one 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 151 

have thought I was haunted with an evil coi>lcien'^e, or - 
that I had been lately mofl terribly frighted ; and fo in- 
deed 1 had. 

However, as I went down thus two or three days, 
and having feen nothing, I began to be a little bolder, 
and to think there was really nothing in it but my own , 
imagination ; but I could not perfiiade myltslf fully of 
this, till I fhould go down to the Ihore again, and fee . 
this print of a foot, and meafure it by my own, and fee 
if there was any fimilitude or fitnels, that I might be 
alTured it was my own foot : Eut when I came to the 
place firfl, it appealed evidently to me, that when I laid 
up my boat, I could not poffibly be on fhore any where 
thereabouts : Secondly, when I came to meafure th<i 
mark with my own foot> I found my foot not fo large by 
a great deal : f oth thefe things filled mv head with new 
imaginations, and gave me the vapours again to the 
higheft degree ; fo that I fhook with cold, like one in an 
ague, and I went hom:e again, filled with the belief, that 
fome man or men had been on fhore there ; or, in fhort, 
that the ifland was inhabited, and I might be furprized 
before I was aware j and what courfe to take for my Se- 
curity, I knew not. 

O what ridiculous rcfolutions men take, when pof- 
fefled with fear ! It deprives them of the ufe of thofe 
means, which reafon off: rs for their relief. The firft 
thing I propofed to nivitlf was, to throw down mv in- 
flofures, and turn all my tame cattle wild into the woodsy 
that the enemy might not find them, and then frequent 
the ifland in profpeift of th'. f-ime, or the like booty ; 
then to the fimplc thing of digo;ing up my two, corn- 
fields, that they might not find i^ucb a grain there, and 
flill to be prompted to frequent the idand ; then to demo- 
lifh my bower and tent, that they might not fee any 
veflige . of my habitation, and be prompted to look 
farther, in order to find out the perfons inhabiting. 

Thefe were thfe fubje<5^s of the firfl night's cogit-tion, 
after I was come home again, while the apprehenfions 
which had fo over-rim my mind were frefh upon me, and 
m.y head was full of vapours, as above. Thus fear of 
danger is ten thoufand times more terrifying than danger 
itfeif, when apparent to the eyps ; and we find the bur- 



152 ADVENTURES OF 

den of anxiety, greater by much, than the evil which" 
we are anxious about ; but, which was worfe than all 
this, I had not that relief in this trouble for the refigna- 
tion I ufed to praftife, that I hoped to have. I looked, . 
I thought, like Saul, who complained not only that the 
Philiftines were upon him, but that God had forfaken 
him ; for I did not now take due ways to compofe my 
mind, by crying to God in my diftrefs, and refting upon 
his providence, as I had done before, for my defence and 
deliverariv^e ; which if I had done, I had, at lead, been 
more chearfully fupported under his new furprize, and 
perhaps carried through it with more refolution. 

This confufion of my thoughts kept me waking all 
night ; but in the morning I fell afleep, and having by 
the amufement of my mind been, as it were, tired, and 
tny fpirits exhaufted, I flept very foundly, and awaked 
much better compofed than I had ever been before : And 
now 1 began think fedately : and, upon the utmoft 
debate with myfelf, I concluded, that this iHand, which 
was fo exceeding pleafant, fruitful, and no farther from 
the main land than as I had feen, was not fo entirely 
abandoned as I might imagine : That altho' there were 
no itated inliabitants who lived on the fpot ; yet that there 
might fometimes come boats off from the Ihore, who 
cither v/ith defign, or perhaps never but when they were 
driven by crofs winds, might come to this place. • 

That I had lived here 1 5 years now, and had not met 
with the leail fhadow or figures of any people before ^ 
anci that if ?X any time they fliould be driven here, it was 
probable they went away again as foon as ever they 
couldy^i'eeing they had never thought fit to fix there upon 
any occafion, to this time. 

That the moil I could fuggeft any danger from, was, 
from ar.y fuch cafual accidental landing of ftraggling 
people frcm the main, who, as it was likely, if they 
were driven hither, were here againfl their wills ; fo they 
made no iray here, but went oif again with all pofTible 
fpeed, feldom. Raying one night on Ihore, left they ihould 
not have the help of the tides and day-light back again ; 
and that therefore I had nothing to do but to confidcr of 
fome fafe retreat, in cafe I Ihould fee any favages land 
upon the fpot. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 153 

Now I began forely to repent that I had dug my cave 
So large, as to bring a door through again,' which door, 
as I-faid, came out beyond where my fortihcation joined 
to the rock. Upon maturely confidering this, therefore, 
I,refolved-to draw me a fecond fortification, in the fame 
manner of a femicircle, at. a diftance from my wall, juft 
where I had planted a double rOw of trees about twelve 
years before, of which I made mention : thefe trees 
having been planted fo tliick before, there wanted but a 
few piles to be driven between them, that thc^fciould be 
jthicker and llronger, and my wall would be foon finilhed* 

So that I had now a double wall, and my outer wall 
was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and 
every thing I could think of to make it ftrong ; having 
in it fev6n little holes, about as big as I might put my 
arm out at. In the infide of this I thickened liiy wall 
to about ten feet thick, continually bringing earth out 
of my cave, and laying it at the foot of the wall, and 
walking upon it ; and though the feven holes I contrived 
to plant the mufquets, of which I took notice that I got 
/even on (hore out of the (hip ; thefe, I fay, I planted 
like my cannon, an^ fitted them into frames that held 
them like a carriage, that fo I could fire all the feven 
guns in two minutes time ; this wall I was many a 
weary month in finifhing, and yet never thought myfelf 
fafe till it wasidone. 

When this was done, I ftuck all the ground without 
my wall, for a great way every way, as full with ftakes 
or fticks of the ofier-like wood, which I found fo apt 
to grow, as they cou!i^well Hand ; infomuch that I be- 
lieve I might fet in it near twenty thoufand of them, leav- 
ing a pretty large fpace between them and my wall, that 
I might have room to fee an enemy, and they might liave 
no Ihelter from the young trees, if they attempted to ap- 
proach my outer wall. ,* 

Thus in two years time I had a thick grove"; and in 
Rve or fix years time I Had a wood before my dwelling, 

frown fo monfl^rous thick and. ftrong, that it >yas i^ 
eed -perfedlly impafiible ; and no man of what Jqiw 
foever, would ever imagine that there was arty tfung 
beyond it, much lefs ^n habitation: as for the way I 
propofed myfelf to go iii and out (for I left no avenue) 



i 



154 ADVENTURES OF 

it was by fetting two ladders ; one to a part of the 
rock which was low, and then broke in, and left rocim 
to pla e another ladder upon that ; fo when the two 
, ladders were taken down, no man living could come 
down to me without mtfchicfing himfelf ) and if they 
had come down, they were ftill on the outfide of my 
outer wall. 

Thus I took all the meafures human prudence could 
fuggeft for my own prefervation ; and it will be feen "at 
length, that they were not altogether without juft rea- 
fon ; though I forefaw nothing at that time more thaA 
my mere ftrar fuggefled. 

While this was doing, I was not altogether carelefsof 
my other affairs ; for I had a great concern upon me for 
my little herd of goats ; they were not only a prefent 
ftmply to me upon every occafion, and began to be fuf- 
fi lent to me, without the expence of powder and fhot, 
but alfo abated the fatigue of my hunting after the wild 
ones ; and I was loath to lofe the advantage of them, 
and to have them all to nurfe up over again ► 

To this pnrpofe, efter long conlideration, I could 
think but of two ways to preferve them ; one was to find 
another convenient place to dig a cave under ground, 
-and to drive them into it eveiy night ; and the other 
was to imlofe two or three little bits of land, remote 
from one another, and as much concealed as I could, 
wher^ I might keep about half a dozen young goats in 
each place 5 fo that if any difafter happened to the flock 
in general, 1 might be able to-raife them again with 
little trouble and time : and this, though it would re- 
quire a great denl of time and labour, I thought was 
the moft rational deiign. 

Accordingly 1 fpent fome time, to find out the mod 
retired parts of the ifland ; and I pitched upon one, whi^h 
ivas as priviJte indeed as my heart could wiih ; for h 
was a little damp piece of ground in the middle of the 
hollo'vV rjnd thi k woo.!*:, where it is obferved, I al- 
moin lortinyfclf Qnce beibre, endeavouring to come back 
that \v\y from the e?.ftern part of the iftand : here I 
fgi^nd a clear piece of hud near three acres, fo fur- 
rpiuidcd with wools, that it was almoft an inclofure by 
ns^ti^e ; at kail it did not waia ue-.\\: (b much labour to 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, tsj 

make it fo, as the other pieces of ground I had worked 
£b hard at. y 

. I immediately went to work with this piece of ground, 
and in lefs than a month's time I had (o fenced round, 
that my flock or herd, call it which you pleafe, which 
were not To wild now as at firft they might be fuppofed 
to be, were well enough fecured in it. So without any 
farther delay, I removed ten fhe-goats and two he-goata 
t«»this piece ; and when there, I continued to per- 
fect the fence, tiH I had made it as fecure as the other, 
which^ however, I did at more leifure, and it took me 
up more time by a great deal- 
All this labour I was at the expence of purely from 
xny apprehenfions on the account of the print of a man's 
foot which I had {^^n \ for as yet, I never faw any hu- 
man creature come near the ifland, and \ had now lived 
two years under thefe uneafinelfes, which indeed mad« 
my life much lefs comfortable than it was before ; aj 
may well be imagined, by any who know what it is to 
live in the conftant fnare of the fear of man ; and this I 
muft obferve with grief too, that the difcompofure of my 
n.ind had too great impreflions alfo upon the religioUs 
part of my thoughts ; for the dread and terror of fall* 
mg into the hands of favages and canibals lay fo upon 
my fpirits, that I ftldom found myfelf in a due temper 
for application to my maker ; at leaft, not with the f©» 
date calmnefs and rc'fig nation of foul which I was wont 
to do. J rather prayed to God as under great affliction 
and preflure of mind, furrounded with danger, and in^ 
expt(ftation every night of being murdered and de-^ 
vou'-ed before the morning ; and 1 muft tellify from my 
experience, that a temper of peace^ thankfuinefs, love 
and affection, as much more the proper frame for prayer 
than that of terror and difcompofure j and that un,der 
the dread of mifchiGf impending, a man is no more fit 
for a comforting performance of the duty of praying to 
Oo\y than he is for repentance on a iick bed ; for thefe 
difcompofures afFe<5l the mind as the others do the body ; 
and the difcompofure of the mind muft neceflarily be as- 
great a difability as thr^t of the body, and much greats 
«r ; praying to God bting properly an ad of the mind» 
not of the body* 



158 /ADVENTURES OF 

better fort of creatures than canibals to make myfcLf 
known to. 

Yet I entertained fuch an abhorrence of the favagc 
wretches that I have been fpeaking of, and of the 
wretched inhuman cuftom of their devouring and eating 
one another up, that I continued penfive and fad, ani 
kept ciofe within my own circle for almoft two years af- 
ter this : when I fay my own circle, I mean by it my 
three plantations, viz, my caftle. my country -fear, 
which I called my bower, and my inclofure in the 
woods ; nor did I look after this for any other ufe than 
as an inclofure for my goats ; for the averfion which 
nature gave me to thefe helliih wretches was fuch, that 
I was as fearful of feeing them as of feeing the devil 
himfelf ; nor did 1 fo much as go to look after my boat 
in all this time, but began rather to think qf making me 
another ; for I could not think of ever making any more 
attempts to bring the other boat round the ifland to me, 
left I fhould meet with fome of thofe creatures at fea> in 
which, if I had happened to hive fallen into their hands, 
I knew what would have been my lot. 

Time, however, and thefatisfa<5iion I had that I was 
in no danorer of being dif overed by thefe people, began 
to wear off my uneafinefs about them ; and 1 began to 
live juft in the fame compofed manner as before ; onl/ 
with this difference, that I ufcd more caution, and kept 
my eyes more i^bout me than I did before, left I fliould 
happen to be {^n by any of them ; and pirticularly, I 
was more cautious of firing my gun, left any of them 
on the iQand ftioul.i happen to hear it ; and it was there- 
fore a very good ProviJen^eto me, that I had furniftied 
myfelf with a tame breed of goats, t!iat I had no need 
to hunt any more about the woods, or fhobt at them ; 
and if I did catoh any more of them after this, it v/as 
by traps and fnares, as I had done before ; fo that for 
two years rfter this, I believe, 1 never tired my gun 
once off, taough I never went out without it; and, 
which v,is more, as I had faved three piftols out of the 
Ihip I always carried them out with me, or at leail 
two of them, iiickina; them in my goat fkinbelt ; I likv«- 
wife fiir'uftiei up one of the great cutlalTes that I hai 
A^ oftbe ihip, aofi made iSA :k bdt ^ Qut it in alfo 



ROBINSON CRUSOE., t^g 

fo tfiat I was now a moft formidable fellow to look at, 
when 1 went abroad, if you add to the former defcrip- 
tion of myfelf, the particular of two piftols, and a great 
broad fword, hangmg at my jfide in a belt, but without 
a fcabbard. 

Things goin ♦on thus, as I have faid, forfbme time, 
I feemed, excepting thefe cautions, to be reduced to my 
former calm fedate way of living ; all thefe things tend- 
ed to fliew me more and more how far my condition was 
from being miferable, compared to fome others ; nay, 
to many other paiticulars of life, which it might have 
pleafed God to have made my lot. Jt put me uponre- 
flefting, how little repining there would be among man- 
kind, at any condition with thofe that are worfe in 
order to be thankful, than be always comparing theni> 
with thofe which are better, to affift their murmurings.^ 
and complainings. 

As in my prefent condition there were not really 
many things which I wanted, fo indeed 1 thought that 
the frights I had been in about thefe favage wretches, 
and the concern I had been inforjny own prefervation, 
had taken off the edge of my invention for my owncon- 
veniencies, and I had dropt a good defign, which I had 
once bent mv thoughts upon ; and that was, to try if I 
could not make fome of my barley into malt, and then 
try to brew myfelf fome beer : this was really a whim- 
fical thought, and I reproved myfelf often for the fim- 
plicity of It ; for I prefently faw there would be the 
Wfiiit of feveral things necefiary to the making my beer» 
that it would be impoflible for me to fupply ; as, fir ft, 
cafks to preferve it in, which was a thing that, as I have 
obferved already, I could never compaS ; no, though 
J fpent not many days, but weeks, nay months, in at- 
tempting it, but to no purpofe. In the next place, J 
had no hopes to, make it keep, no yeaft to make it work, 
no copper or kettle to make it boil ; and yet had not all 
thefe things intervened, I mean the frights and terrors 
I WIS in about the fivages, I had undertaken it, and 
pcrhr^ps brought it to pafs too ; for I feldoni gave any 
thing over without accompliiliing it, when I once had 
it in my head enough to begin it. 

Bill 



i6o AD VENTURE S OF 

But my inventHH\: r\ow ran quite another way ; for 
night and day I coiilii;jtiif|k of nothing, but how I might 
deftroy fome of thefe; mothers in their cruel bloody en- 
tertainment ; and, if poflible, fave the vidim they Ihould 
bring hither to deftroy. It would take up a larger vo- 
lume than this whole work is inten^'i«d to be, to fet 
down all the contrivances I hatched, or rather brooded 
upon in my thoughts, for the deftroy ing thefe creatures, 
or at leaft frightening them, fo as to prevent their com- 
ing hither any more ; but all was abortive ; nothing 
could be poffible to take efFeft, unlefs I was to be there 
to do \t myfelf; and what could one man do among 
them, when perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of 
them together, with their darts, or their bows and ar- 
rows, with which they could ftioot as true to a mark as 
I could with my gun T 

Sometimes I contrived to dig an hole under the place 
where they made their fire, and put in five or fix: pounds 
of gunpowder, which, when they kindled their fire» 
would confequently take fire, and blow up all that was 
near it ; but, as in the firft place 1 ihould be very loth 
to wafte fo much powder upon them, my ftore being 
now within the quantity of a barrel ; fo neither could I 
be fure of its going off at any certain time, when it might . 
furprize them ; and, at beft, that it would do little more 
than juft blow the fire ^bout their ears, and fright them, 
but not fufficient to make them forfake the place ; fo I 
laid it aiide, and then propofed, that I would place my- 
felf in ambufh, in fome convenient place, with my three 
guns all double loaded, and'inthe middle of their bloody 
ceremony iet fly at them, when I Ihould be fure to kill 
or wound perhaps two or three at every fhoot ; and then 
falling in upon them with my three piftpls, and my 
fvv'ord, I make no doubt but that, if there were twenty, 
I (hould kill them all: this fancy pleafed my thoughts 
' for feme Weeks, and I, was fo full of it that I often 
dreamt of it ; and fometimes, that I was . juft going to 
. let fly at them in my fleep. 

I went fo far with it in my indignation, that I em- 
ployed myfelf feveral days .to find out proper, places to 
put myfelf in ambufcade, as J faid, to watch for .thenj^; 
. ♦iv^i/ / went frequently to the ]jlace itfelf, which was 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. i6i 

now grown more familiar to me ; and efpecially while 
my mind was thus filled with thoughts of revenge, and 
of a bloody putting twenty or thirty of them to the 
fword, as I may call it ; but the horror I had at the 
place, and at the iignals of the barbarous wretches de- 
vouring one another, abated my malice. 

Well, at length I foi^nd a place in the lide of the hill, 
where I was fatisfied I might fecurely wait till I faw any 
of the boats coming, and might then, even before they 
would be ready to come on fhore, convey myfelf unfeen 
into thickets of trees, in one of which there was an 
hollow large enough to conceal me entirely ; and where 
I might fit, and obferve all their bloody doings, and take 
my full aim at their heads, when they were fo clofa to- 
gether, as that it would be next to impoffible that I 
fhould mifs my fhoot, or that I could fail wounding three 
or four of them at the firft fhoot. 

In this place then I refolved to fix my defign : and 
accordingly I prepared two muflcets, and my ordinary 
fowling-piece. The two mufkets I loaded with a brace 
of flugs each, and four or five fmaller bullets, about 
the fize of piftol bullets, and the fowling-piece I loaded 
with near an handful of fwan-fhot, of the largeft fize ; 
I alfo loaded my piftols with about four bullets each ; 
" and in this pofture, well provided with ammunition for 
a fecond and third charge, I prepared myfelf of my ex- 
pedition. 

After I had thus laid the fcheme for my defign, and 
in my imagination put it in pradlice, I continually made 
my tour every morning up to the top of the hill, which 
was from my caftle, as I called it, about three miles, or 
more, to fee if I could obferve any boats upon the fea, 
coming near the-ifland, or (landing over towards it ; but 
I began to tire of this hard duty, after I had for two or 
three months conftantly kept my watch ; but came always 
back without any difcovery, there having not in all that, 
time been the lead appearance, not only on or near the 
fhore, but not on the whole ocean, fo far as my eyes or 
glafles could reach every way. 

As long as I kept up my daily tour to the hill to 
look out, fo long alfo I kept up the vigour of my de- 
fign, and my fpirits feemed to be all the while in a fuit- . 



i62 ADVENTURES OF 

able frame, for foemtrageous an exeeiition, as the kilU 
ing twenty or thirty naked favages for an offence, which 
I had not at all entered intoadifcufiion of in my thoughts 
any further than my paiSons were at firft fired by the 
horror I conceived at the unnatural cullom of the peo- 
ple of th~t country, who, it feems, ha^ibetn fufferedby 
rrovidence, in his wife diipofition of the world, to 
have no other guide than th?.t of their own abominable 
and vitiated paiiions ; and confequently were left, and 
perhaps had been for feme ages, to ad fuch horrid 
things, and receive fuch drca -ful cuiloms, as nothing 
but nature, entirely abandoned of heaven, and aduated 
by fome hellifh degeneracy, could have run them into : 
but now, when, as I have faid, I began to be weary of 
the fruitlefs excurfion which I had made fo long, and 
£0 far, every morning in vain,; 'fo my opinion of the 
a(ftion itfelf began to ahar, and I began with cooler, 
and calmer thoughts to cc^fider what ijt was I was go- 
ing to engage in ; what authority or call I had, to prcr 
tend to be judge and executioner upon thefe men a5 
criminals whom heaven had thought fit for fo many^ 
ages to fuffer, unpunillied. to go on, and to be, as it 
were, the executioners of his judgments upon one ano- 
ther I alfo how ifar thtfe people were offenders againft 
me, ?ncl what right I had to engage in the quarrel o£ 
that blood which they fhed promifcuoufly one upon ano- 
ther ; I debated this very often with myfelf thus ; How 
do I know what God himfelf judges in this particular 
cafe ? It is certain thefe people do not conihiit.this as a 
crime ; it is not againft their own confciences reproving, 
or their light reproaching rhem. They do not know it 
to be an offence, and then commit it in defiance of di-^ 
vine juftice, as we do in almoft all the fins we commit. 
They think it no more a crime to kill a captive taken 
in war, than we do to kill an ox ; nor to eat human 
flefh, than we do to eat mutton. 

When I had confidered this a little it followed necefTa- 
rily, that I was certainly in the wrong in it ; that thefe 
people were not murderers in the fenfe that I had be- 
fore condemned them in my thoughts, any more than 
thofe Chriftians were murderers, who often put to 
c/pirA riieprifoners taken mbaXtle^ or more frequently. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 163 

upon many occafions, put whole tfOops of men to the 
fword, without giving quar^r, though they threw 
down their arms and fubmitted; ' 

In the next place, it occurred to me, that albeit the 
iifage they gave one another was thus brutifh and in- 
human, yet it was really nothing to me ; thefe people 
had done me no injury : that if they attempted me, or 
1 faw it neceflary for my immediate prefervatibn to fall 
upon them, fomething might be faid for it ; but that 
I was yet out of their power, and they had really no 
knowledge of me, and confequently nodefign upon me; 
and therefore it could not be jufl for me to fall upon 
them : that this would juftify the condu<5t of the Spa^ 
niards, in all their barbaritie; pra^^ifed in America, 
whe;;e they deflrroySd millions pf thefe people, who, 
however they were idolaters and barbarians, and had 
feveral bloody and barbarous rites in their cuftoms, fuch 
as facrificing human bodies to their idols, were yet, as 
to the Spaniards, very innocent people ; and that th« 
rooting them out of the country is Ipoken of with the 
Utmoft abhorrence and deteftation, even by the Spani^ 
ards themfelves, at this time, and by all other Chriftian 
nations of Europe, as a mere tut:hery, a bloody and 
•unnatural piece of cnielty, unjiiftiiiable either ta God or 
man ; and fuch, as for whicli the v<:ry name of a Spani- 
ard is reckoned to be frightful and terrible to all people 
of humanity, or of Chriftiancomp-'.ilion : as if the king- 
dom of Spain were particuhriy eminent for the produft 
of a race of men, who were without principles of ten- 
dernefs, or the common bowels of pity to the raiferable, 
which is reckoned to be a mark of a generous temper 
in the mind. 

Thefe confi:1erationsreally putmetoa paufe. and to 
a kind of a full (lop; and I began by little and little to 
be of^ of my dcfign, and to conclude I had taken wrong 
meafure in my refohitions to attack the favages ; that 
it was notmy bufinefs to meddle with them, unlefsthey 
firft attack me, and this it was my bufinefs, if pdllible; 
to prevent ; but that, if I were difcovered and attacked, 
then I knew my duty* 

On the other hand, I argued with myfelf, that this 
really was the way not to deliver myfelf, but emirely 
to ruin and deftroy myfeli ; loc \«:^'d&\N^^^\tt^\s5k^*ii5^ 



164 ADVENTURES OF 

every one that not only fhould be on fhore at that time, 
but that fhould ever come on fhore after>vards, if but one 
of them efcape to tell their country-people what had 
happc4ied, they would come over again by thoufands to 
revenge the death of their fellows ; and I fhould only ' 
bring upon myfelf a certain deflrudion, which at prefent 
I had no manner of occalion for. 

Upon the whole, I concluded, that neither in principles 
nor in policy, I ought one way or other to concern myfelf 
in this affair : that my bufmefs was, by all poflible means 
to conceal myfelf from them, and not to leave the leafl 
fignal to them to guefs by, that there were any living 
creatures npon the ifland ; I mean of human fhape. 

Religion joined in with this prudential, and I was con- 
vinced now many ways, that I was perfeftly out of my 
duty, when 1 was^ laying all my bloody fchemes for the 
deflrudlion of iimocent creatures, I mean innocent as to 
me ; as to the crimes they were guilty of towards one 
another, I had nothing to do with them ; they were na- 
tional punifhments to make a jufl retribution for national 
offences; and to bring public judgments upon thofewho 
offend in a public manner^i by fuch ways as bell pleafe 
God. 

This appeared fo clear to me now, that nothing was a 
greater fatisfaflion tp me, than that I had not been fuf- 
fered to do a. thing which I now faw fo much reafon 
to believe would have been no lefs a fin, than that of 
wilful murder, if I hai committed it ; and I gave moft 
humble thanks on my knees to God, that had thus de- 
livered me from blood-guiltinefs ; befeeching him to 
grant me the protection of his providence, ^hat I might 
not fall into the hands of barbarians ; or that I might 
not, lay my hands upon them, unlefs I had a more clear 
call from heaven to do it, in defence of my own life. 

In this difpofition I continued for near a year after 
this ; and {o far was I from defiring an occafion for fall- 
ing upon thefe wretches, that in all that time I never 
once went up the hill to fee whether there were any of 
them in fight, or to know whether any of them had been 
on fhore there, or not ; that I might not be tempted to 
renew any of my contrivances againfl them, or be pro- 
voked by any advantage wViiOol ml^Kt prefent itfel^ to 

1-^ 



R0BI1NS0N CRUSOE. 165 

fall upon them ; only this I did, I went and removed 
my boat, which I had on the other fide of the iiland, and 
carried it down to the eaft end of the whole ifland, where 
I ran it into a little cove which I found under fome high 
rocks, and where I knew, by reafon of the currents, the 
favages durft not, at leaft would not, come with their 
boats, upon any account whatfoever. 

With my boat I carried away every thing that I had 
left there belonging to her, tho' not necelTary for the bare 
going thither ; viz. a maft and fail, which I had made 
for her, and a thing like an anchor, but indeed, which 
could not be called either anchor or grappling ; hovyever, 
it was the beft I could make of its kind. All thefe I re- 
moved, that there might not be the lead fhadow of any 
difcovery, or any appearance of any boat, or of any 
habitation upon the ifland. 

Belides this, I kept myfelf, as I faid,more retired than 
ever, and feldom went from my cell, other than upon 
my conftant employment, viz. to milk my fhe-goats, 
and manage my little flock in the wood ; which, as it 
was. quite on the other part of the ifland, was quite out 
of danger : for certain it is, that thefe favage people, 
who fometimes haunted this ifland, never came with any 
thoughts of finding any thing here, and confequently ne- 
ver wandered off from the coaft ; and I doubt not, but 
they might have been feveral times on fhore, after my 
apprehenfions of them had made me cautious, as well 
as before ; and indeed, I looked back with fome horror 
upon the thoughts of what my condition would have 
been, if I had chopped upon them, and been difcovered 
before that, when naked and unarmed, except with one 
gun, and tH*at loaded often only with fmall fhot. I 
walked every .where, peeping and peering about the 
ifland, to fee what I could get : what a furprize fhould 
I have been in, if, when I difcovered the print of a man's 
foot, I had infl^ead of that feen fifteen or twenty favaees, 
and found them purfuing me, and, by the fwiftnef^ of 
their running, no pofTibility of my efcaping them! 

The thoughts of this fometimes funk my very foul 
within me, and diftirefFed my mind fo much, that I could 
not foon recover it ; to think what I fhould have done, 
and how I not only fhould not bave been able to reflft 



i66 ADVENTURES OF 

them, but even fhould not have had prefence of mind 
enough to do what 1 might have done ; much lefs, what 
now after fo much confideration and preparation I might 
be>ble to do. Indeed, after ferious thinking of thefe 
things, I would be very melancholy, and fometinies it 
would laft a great while ; but I refolved it at laft all into 
thankfulnefs to that Providence which had delivered me 
from fo many unfeen dangers, and had kept me from 
thofe mifchiefs, which I could no way have been the 
a^-cnt in delivering myfeif from ; becaufe I had not the 
leaft notion of any fuch thing depending, or the leaft 
fuppofition of its being poffible. 

This renewed contemplation, which often had come 
to my thoughts in former time, when firft I began 
to fee the merciful difpoiitions of heaven, in the dan- 
gers we run through in this life ; how wonderfully we 
are delivered when we know nothing of it ! how when 
we are in a quandary (as v/e call it) a doubt or hefita- 
tion, whether to go this way, or that way, a fecret 
hint ihall dire6l us this way, when we intended to go 
another way ; nay, when fenfe, our own inclination, and 
perhaps bufinefs, has called to go the other way, yet a 
llrange impreflion upon the mind, from we know ndt 
what fpring, and by we know not what power, ihall 
over rule us to go this way ; and it fhall cfterwards 
appear, that had we gone that way which^^e would have 
gone, and even to our imagination ought to have gone, 
wefhould have been ruined and loft; upon thefe, and 
many like reflections, I afterwards made it a. certain 
rule with me, that whenever I found thofe. fecret hints, 
or pceilings of my mind, to doing or not doing any 
thing that prefented, or to going this way or that way, 
I never failed to obey the fecret dictate ; tho' I ' newno 
other reafon for it, than that fuch a preflure, or fuch an 
hint, hung upon my mind : I could give many exam- 
ples of the fuccefs of this conduct in the courfe of my 
life ; l^utmore efpecially in the latter part of my inha- 
biting this unhappy ifland; befides many occaQons 
which it is very likely I might have taken notice of, if 
I had feen with the fame eyes then, th-'t I faw with now : 
But 'tis never too late to be wife ; and I cannot but ad- 
vjfe all coiiiidcring men, whofe lives are attended with 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 167 

fiich extraordinary incidents as mine, or evhn though 
not fo extraordinary, not to flight fuch fecret intima- 
tions of Providence let them come frorn^ what invifible 
intelligence they will ; that* I fhall not difcirfs, and per- 
haps cannot account for j but certainly they are a proof 
of the converle of fpirits, and the lecret communica- 
tion between thofe embodied, and thofe unembodied ; 
and fuch a proof as can never be withftood : of which I 
Ihali have occafion to give fome very remarkable in- 
ftances, in the remainder of my folitary refidence in 
this difmal place. 

I believe the reader of this will not think it ftrange, if 
I confefs that thefe anxieties, thefe conftant dangers I 
lived in, and the concern that was now upon me, put 
an end to ajlr invention, and to all the contrivances 
that I had laid for my future accommodations and con- 
veniences. I had the care of my fafety more now 
upon my hands, than that of my food. I cared not 
to drive a nail, or chop a flick of wood now, for fear 
the noife I fhould make fliouid be heard ; much lefs 
would I fire a gun, for the fame reafon ; and above 
all, I was very uiieafy at making any fire, left the 
fmoke, which is vifible at a great diflance in the day, 
fhould betray me ; and for this reafon I removed that 
part of my bufinefs, wbi( h required fire, fuch as burn- 
ing of pots and pipes. Sec, into my new apartment in 
the wood ; where, after I had been fome time, I found, 
to my unfpeakable cljnfolation, a mere natural cave 
in the earth, which went in a vafl way, and where, I 
dare r?y, no favage, had he been at the mouth of it, 
would be fo hardy as to venture in, nor indeed would 
any man elfe, but one who^ fike me, wanted nothing 
fo much as a fafe retreat. 

The mouth of thii> hollow was at the bottom of a 
great rock, where, by mere accident (I would fay, if 
1 did not fee an abundant reafon to afcribe all fuch 
things now to Providence) I was cutting down fome 
thi k branches of trees to make charroal ; and before 
I j^oon, I muft obferve the reafon of my making this 
charcoal, which was thus : 

I was afraid of making a (moke about m> habita- 
tion, as I faxdl>efv)re; and yet I could not live thece 
without baking my bread, cookVuf^tsvj twc»x ^^* ^^\| 



i68 ADVENTURES OF 

contrived to burn fome wood here, as I had {een done in 
England under turf, till it became chark, or dry coal ; 
and then putting the fire out, I preferved the coal to 
carry home, and perform the other fervices, which fire 
was wanting for at home, without danger or fmoke. 

But this by the bye : while I was cutting down fome 
wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick branch 
of low brulh-wood, or underwood, there was a kind 
of hollow place : I was curious to look into it, and get- 
ting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it was 
pretty large, that is to fay, fufficient for me to fland up- 
right in it, and perhaps another with me ; but I muft con- 
fefs to you, I made more hafte out than I did in ; when 
looking further into the place, which was peffedly dark, 
I faw two broad fhining eyes of fome creature, whether 
devil or man, I-knewnot, which twinkletTlike twoflars^ 
the dim light from the cave's mouth fhining diredly in, 
and making the refieftion. 

However, after fome paufe, I recovered myfelf, and 
began to call myfelf a thoufand fools, and tell myfelf, 
that he that was afraid to fee the devil, was not fit to 
live twenty years in an ifland all alone, and that I durft 
to believe there was nothing in this cave that was more 
frightful than myfelf : upon this, plucking up my cou-. 
rage, I took up a large firebrand, and in I ruihed again, 
with the flick .flaming in my hand : I had not gone 
three fleps in, Ijut I was almofl as much frightened as 
I wai before ; for I heard a very loud figh, like that of 
a man in fome pain ; and it was followed by a broken 
noife, as if of words half jexprefTed, and then a deep 
figh again : I flepped back, and wsts indeed flruck with 
fuch a furprize, that it . put me into a cold fweat ; 
and if I had had an hat on my head, I will not anfwer for 
it, that my hair might not have lifted it off. But flill 
plucking up my fpirits as well as I could, and encou- 
raging myfelf a little^ with confidering that the power 
and prefence of God was every-where, and was able to 
proteft me ; upon this I flepped forward again, and by 
the light of the firebrand, holding it up a little over 
my head, I faw lying on the ground a mofl monflrous 
frightful old he-goat, juft making his will, as we fay, 
^a^ii)^ for life, and dying indeed of a mere old age. 



I 



^ ROBINSON CRUSOE. 169 

H 1 ftirred him a little to fee if I could get him Out, and 
he alTayed to get up, but was not able to raife himfclf ; 
and f thought with my felf, he might e'en lie there ; for 
if he had frightened me (b, he would certainly fright any 
of the favages, if any of them fhould be fo hardy as to 
come in there, while he had any life in him. 

I was now recovered from my furprife, and began to 
look round me, when I found the cave was but very 
fniall ; that is to fay, it might be about twelve feet over, 
but in no manner of fhape, either round or Iquare, no 
hands having ever been employed in making it but thofc 
, of mere naturo: I obferved alfo, that there was a place 
at-the farther fide of it that went in farther, but fo^ow, 
that it required me to creep upon my hands and knees to 
get into it, and whither it went, I knew not ; fo having 

^ no candle, I gave it over for fome time, but refolved to 
come again the next day, provided with candles and a 
tinder-box, which I had made of the lock of one of the 
mufquets, with fome wild fire in the pan. 

Accordingly, the next day, 1: came provided with fix 
larg0 candles of my own making, for I made very good 
candles now of goat's tallow ; and, goihg into this low 
place, I was obliged to creep upon all fourb, as I have 
faid, almofl ten yards ; which, by the way, I thought 
was a venture bold enough, confidering that I knew not 
how far it might ^o, or what was beyond it : When I 
was got thro* the Itreight, I found the roof rofe higher 
up, I believe near twenty feet ; but never was fuch a 

. glorious fight feen in the illand, I dare fay, as it wa , to 
look round the fides and roof of this vault or cave r 
The walls refleifted an hiuidred thoufand lights to me 
from my two candles; ^^^at it was in the rock, whether 

, diamonds? or any otlier precious ftones, or gold, which 
I rather fuppofed it to be, I knew not. 

The place I was in was a moft delightful cavity, or* ' 
grotto, of its kind, as could be expefted, though per- 
fectly dark ; the floor was dry and level and had a fort 
of fmall loofe gravel upon it ; fo that there was no nau- 
feous creature to be leen ; neither was there any damp 
or wet on the fides of the roof : The only difficulty in 

. it was the entrance, which, however, as it was a place 
of fecurity, and fuch it retreat as I wanted^ I thov3L<^\t. 
VOL0 i. .'a *^^^ 



fy/*^ ADVENTURES OF 

diat was a convenience ; fo that I was really rejoiced at 
the difcoveryy and refolved; without any delay, to bring 
(pme of thofe things which I was moft anxious about, to 
this place ; particularly, I refolved to bring hither my 
magazine of powder, and all my fpare arms, viz. two 
fowling-pieces (for I had three in all) and three muf- " 
quets (for of them I had eight in all ;) fo I kept at my 
caflle only five, which ftooa ready mounted, like pieces 
of cannon, on myoutmoil fence; and were ready alio to 
take out upon any expedition. 

Upon this occaiien of removing my ammunition, I 
was obliged to open the barrel of powder which I took 
up out of the fea, and which had been wet ; and I found, 
that the water had penetrated about three or four inches 
into the powder on every fide, which, caking and grow- 
ing hard, had preserved the infide like ake|Tiel in a fliell ; 
fo that 1 had near fiXty pounds 6£ very good powder in 
the centre of the caflc ; and this was an agreeable difco- 
very to me at that time ; fo I carried all away thither, 
never keeping above two or thi-ee pounds of powder 
with me in my caftle, for fear of a furprife of any Kind. 
I alfo carried thither all the Icf d 1 had left for bullets. 

I fancied my felf now like one of the antient giants, 
which were faid to live in caves and holes in the rocks, 
where none could come at them ; for I perfuaded my felf 
while I was here, if live nurdred favages were to hunt 
me, they could never find me out ; or u they did, they 
would not venture to attack me here. 

The o^d goat, which I found expiring, died in the 
mouth of the cave, the next day after I made this difco- 
very ; and I found it much eafier to dig a great hole 
there, and throw him in, and cover him with earth, than 
to drag him out : So I interred him there, to prevent of^ 
fence to my nofe. 

I was now in my twenty-third year of refidcnce in this 
ifland, and was fo naturalized to the place, and to the man- 
ner of living, that could I have but enJ9yedthe certainty, 
that no favages would come to the place to difturb me, I 
could have been content to have capitulated for fpcnding 
the reft of my time there, even to the laft moment, till 1 
had laid me down anddied, like the old goat, in the cave : 
/ hsd alfo arrived to fome lixtit dLveifions and amufements. 



■i 



' ROBINSON CRUSOE. ^ rji 

tyhich iriade the time pafs more pleafantly with me a great 
deal than it did bpfore ; as, firft, I had taught my pol, as 
1 noted before, to ipeak ; and he did it fo familiarly, and 
talked fo articulately and plain, that it wa« very pleafant 
to me ; and he lived with inc no lefs than fix and twenty 
years : How long he might live afterwards, I knew not ; 
tho' I know they have a notion in the Braiils, that they 
live an hundred yea^ ; perhaps fome of ray pols may be 
alive there ftill, calling after Poor Robin Crufoe to this 
day ; I wi(h lio Englilhmanthe ill luck to come there and 
hear them ; but if he did, he would certainly believe it 
was the devil. My dog was a vety pleafant and loving 
companion to me for no lefs than fixteen years of my 
time, and then died of mere old age ; as for my cats, 
they multiplied, as I have obferved, to that decree, that I 
was obliged to fhoot feveral of them at firfl, to keep them 
from devouring me, and all I had ; but at length, when 
the two old ones I brought with me Were gone, and af- 
ter fome time continually driving them from me, ai^e^ 
ting them have no provifion with me> they all raiWiid 
into the woods, except two or three favourites, which I 
kept tame, and vvhofe young, when they had any, I 
always drowned, and thefe were part of my family : Be- 
fides thefe, I always kept two or three houdiould kids 
about me, which I taught to feed out of my hand ; and Jl 
had alfo more parrots, which talked pretty well, and 
would all call Robin Crufoe, but none like my firll : nor, 
indeed, did I take the pains with any of them that I had 
don^ with hira : I had alfo feveral tame fea-fbwls, whofe 
names I know not, which I caught upon the fliorc, and 
cut their wings ; and the little flakes, .which I had plant- 
ed before my caftle wall, being now grown up to a good 
thick grove, thefe fjwls all lived among ihele low trees, 
and bred there, which was very agreeable to me ; fo 
that* as I faid above, I began to be very well contented 
with the life I led, if it might but have been fecdred 
from the dread of favages. 

But it was otherwife dire£led ; and it, might not be 
amifs for all people who fhall meet with my ftory, to 
make this juft obfervation from it ; viz. How frequently 
in the courfe of our lives, the evil, which in itfelf 
we feek moft to ihun, and which, whlea we arc fidlen 



I 



X7a ^ ADVENTURES OF 
into, is the moft dreadful to us, is oftentimes t' c very 
means or door of our deliverance, by which alone we 
can be raifed again from the affliction we are fallen into : 
I could give niariy examples of this in the courfe of my 
unaccountable life ; but m nothing was it more particu- 
larly remrrkable, than in the cjrcumftances erf my laft,- 
years of folitary refidence in this ifland. 

It was now the month of December, as I faid above, 
in my twenty-third year ; and this being the fouthern 
foHlice, for winter I cannot call it, was the particular 
time of my harveft, and required my being pretty much 
abroad in the fields ; when going out pretty early in the 
morning, even before it was thorough day-light, 1 was 
furprifed with feeing a light of fonie fire upon the fhore, 
at a diflance from me of about two miles, towards the 
end of the ifland, where I had obferved fome favages 
. had been, as before ; but not on the other fide ; but, to 
my great affliction, It was on my fide of the ifland. . 

I was indeed terribly furprifed at the fight, andflopped 
fliort within my grove, not daring tci go out. lefl I might 
be furprifed ; and yet 1 had no morejpeace within, from 
the apprehenfions I had, that if thefe favages, in ram- 
bling oyer the ifland, fhould find my corn flanding, or 
cut, or any of my works and improvements, they would 
immediately conclude, that there were people in the 
place, and would then never give over till they found 
me out : In this extremity I went backdireClly to my 
caflle, pulled up the ladder after me, having made all 
things without look as wild and natural as I could. 

Then I piepared myfelf within, putting myfelf in a 
pofture of defence y I loaded all my cannon, as I called* 
them, that is to fay, my mulquets, which were mounted 
upon iry new fortification, and all my piflols, and re* 
folyed to defend* myfelf to the lafl gafp ; not forgetting 
feriopfly to recommend myfelf to the divine proteClion> 
and earneflly to prajr to God to deliver me out of the 
hands of the barbarians ; and in this poflure I con- 
tiniied about two hours, but began to be mighty impatient 
for intelligence abroad^ for I had no fpiesto'fend out. 

After fitting a while longer, and mufing what I 
ihouH do in this cafe, I was not able to bear fitting ia 

ignorahce" 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 173 

ignorance longer ;' fo fettingup my ladder to the fide of 
the hill, whwe there was a flat pl^ce, as I obferved be- 
fore, and then pulling the ladder up after me, I fet it up 
ag^in, and mounted to the top of the hill; and pulling 
out my perfpeftive-glafs, which I had f aken on purpofc, 
I laid me down flat on my belly on the ground, and be- 
' gan to look for the place : I prefently found there were 
no lefs than nine naked favage§ fitting round a fmall fire 
they had made ; not to warm them, for they had no need 
of that, ^he^weather being extreme hot ; but, as I fup- 
pofed, to drefs fome of their barbarous diet of human 
flefh, which they had brought with them, whether alive 
or dead, I could not know. 

They had two canoes with them, which they had hal- 
ed up upon the fhore ; and as it was. then tide of ebb, 
' they feemed to me to wait the return of the flood to go 
away again. It is not eafy to imagine what confufion 
this* fight put me into, cfpecially feeing them-come on 
my fide the ifland, and fo near me too ; but when I ob- 
ferved their coming mufl be always with the current of 
the ebb, I began afterwards to be more fedate in my 
mind, being fatisfied that I might go abroad with fafety, 
all the time of tide of flood, if they were not on fhore 
before ; and having made thisobfervation, I went abroad 
about my harvefl work with the more compofure. 

As I expe6ted, fo it proved ; for as foon as the tide 
made to the weflward, I faw them all take boat, and row 
(or paddle, as we call it) ail away : I fhould have ob- 
ferved, that for an hour and more before they went off, 
they went tQ; dancing, and I could eafily difcern their, 
poflures and gfifcuj^es by my glafles : I could not perceive, 
by my nicefl obfervatl^a,j3u^ ^at they were flark-naked, v 
and iiad not theleafl cover m^ upon them ; but whether 
they were m^ or women, that Icotildnotdiflinguifh. 

As foon as I faw them fhipped and gpne, I took two 
guns upon my flioulder^, and two p floL at my girdle, 
and my great fword by my fide, without a fc^bbard ; 
and with all the fpeedl was able to make, I went away to 
the hill, where I had difcovered the firfl appearance of all. ■» 
As foon as I got thither, which was not lefs than two hours 
(for I could not go apace, being fo loaded with arms as 
I was) I perceived there had been three canoes more of 



X74 . ADVENTURES OF 
fayages on that place; and looking out further, I faw 
tji^y were all at Tea together, making over for the main* 
This was a dreadful fight to me, e^ecially when going 
down to the (hore, I could fee the marks of horror which 
the difmal work they had been about had left behind it, 
viz. the blood, the bones, aud part of the fieih of human 
bodies^ eaten and devoured by thofe wretches, with mer- 
riment and fport. I was fo filled with indignation at the 
fight, that I began now to premediatethe deftruftion ofthe ' 
next that I faw there, let them be who or how many foever. 
It feemed evident to me, that the viiits which they 
thus made to this ifland, were not vejry frequent ; for it 
was above fifteen months before any more of them came 
on (hore there again ; that is to {ay, I never faw them, or . 
any footfteps or fignals of them, in all that time ; for as 
to the rainy feafons, then they are fure not to come* 
abroad, at leaft cot fo far ; yet all thi^ while I lived un- 
comfortably, by reafon of the conftant apprehenlions I" 

• was in of their coming upon me by furprife ; from whence 
I obferve, that the expedlation of evil is more bitter than 
the fuffering, efpecialiy if there is no room to ihake oF 
tliat expedation or thofe apprehenfions. 

During all this time, I was in the murdering humour ; 
and took up moil of my hours, which ihould l^vt been 
better employed, in contriving how to circumvent and 
£ul upon them the very next time I fliould fee them ; 
efpecialiy if they fhould be divided, as they were the laft 
time, into two parties ; nor did I consider at all, that iJF 
I killed one party, fuppofe ten or a dozen, I was Hill the 
next day, or week, or mpath, to kill another, and f^ 
another, even a^i irtfini/um, till I (hould be at length no 

, lefs a murderer than they were in being men-eaters, and 
perhaps much more fo. ' 

I Tpent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety 
of miud, expeding that I iho'ald one day or other fall 
into the hands of thofe mercilefs creatures; if I diJ af 
any time venture abroad, it v/as not without looking 
round me with* the g.reatefl care aid ^aation imagira- 
b!e ; and now I found, to my great comfort, Ikw nappy 

' it was that I had provided a tame fiock or herd of 
goats ; for I durft not, upon any account, fire my gun, 
«//>eciaIiy near that, fide of the ifcuid, where th'^y ufus^ily 

cxme. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 175 

came, leflf I fhould alarm the favages ; and if they had 
fled from me now, I was furc to Rave them come back 
again, with perhaps two or three handred canoes with 
them in a few days, and then I knew what to expect. 

However, I wore out a year and three months more 
before I ever fkw any more of the favages, and then I 
found them again, as I fhall foon obferve. It is true, 
they might have bsen there once or twice, but either 
they made no ftay," or, at leaft, I did not hear them ; 
but in the month of May, as near as I conld calculate^ 
andin my four and twentieth year, I had a very ftrange 
encounter with them, of which in its place. 
. The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or 
fixteen months interval, was very great ; I flept unquiet, 
dreamed always frightful dreams, and often ftarted out 
of.my fleep in the night ; in the day great troubles 
overwhehned my mind ; in the night I dreamed often 
of killing the favagjes, and the reafons why I might 
jttilify the doing of it : But to wave all this for a while, ^ 
it was in the middle of May, on the fixteenth day, 1 
think, as well as my poor wooden calendar would rec- 
kon ; for I marked all upon the poll ((ill ; I fay, it was on 
the fixteenth of May, that it blew a great ftorm of wind 
all day, with a great deal of lightning and thunder, and 
a very foul night was after it : I know not what was the 
particular occafion of it; but as I was reading in the 
%ible, an4 taken up with ferious thoughts about my pre* 
/ent condition, I was furprifed with the noife of a gun, 
as I thought, fired at fca. 

This was, to be fure, a farprife of a quite different na- 
ture from any I had met with before ; for the notiohs 
tliis put in^ my thoughts were quite of another kind : J 
ftarted up in the greateft hafte imaginable ; and in a trice 
clapped up my ladder to the middle place of the rockV 
and puUed it after me, a'nd mounting in the fecond time, 
got to the top of the hill ; that very moment a flafh of 
fire bade me liften for a fecond gun, which accordingly 
in about half a moment I heard, and by the found knew 
that it was from that part of tlic fea where I was driven 
cut with the ciirrent in my boat. 
-\ I immediately conftdered, that this mufl be Come fhip iii 
dii^refs;, and^hat they had fome comrade, or fome othes 



1 



176 ADVENTURES OF 

fliip in company, and fired thefe guns for fignals of dif- 
trefs, and to obtain help : I had this prefence of mind 
at that minute, as to think, that though I could not help 
them, it may be they might help me ; fo I brought toge- 
ther all the dry wood I could get at hand, and making 
a good handfome pile, I fet it on fire upon the hill ,• the - 
wood was dry, ana blazed freely, and tho' the wind blew 
very hard, yet it burnt fairly out, fo that I was certain, 
if there was any fuch thing as a fhip, they mud need fee 
it, and no doubt they did ; for as foon as ever mjr. fire . 
blazed up, I heard another gun, andafter that feveral 
others, all from the fame quarter. I plied my fired all 
night long . till day broke ; and when it was broad day, 
and the air cleai'ed up, I faw fomething at a great djf- 
tance at fea, full eafl of the ifland, whether a fail, oran 
hull, I could not diftinguifh, no not with my glafTes, 
the drftance was fo great, and the weather ftill fome- 
thing hazy alfo ; at leaft it was fo out at fea. 

I looked frequently at it all that day, and foon per- 
ceived that it did not move ; fo I prefently concluded, 
that it was a fhip at anchor ; and being eager, you may 
be fure to be fatisfied, I took my gun in my hand, and 
ran to\^^ards the fouth*eafl fide of the ifland, to the rocks; 
where I had'been formerly carried away with the cur- 
rent ; and gett ng up there, the weather by this time 
being perfe6^1y clear I could plainly fee, to my great for- 
row, the wreck of a fhip cafl away in the night upon thofe 
concealed rocks which 1 fopnd when I was out in my boat ; 
and which rocks as they checked t\^ violence of the 
ibream,. and jnadc a kind of toimter-flream, or eddy, were 
the occafion of my recovering then from the mofl delperate 
hopelefs condition that ever I had been in all my I'fc. 

Thus, v^at is one man's fr.fety, is another man*s 
"HeftfudUon; for it feems, thefe men, whcever tJiey 
v/ere, being out of their knowledge, and tlie rooks be- 
ing wholly under water, had been driven upon them in 
the night, the wind blov/ing hard at E. and E. N. E. 
Had tbey feen the ifland, as I muft nccefTarily fuppofc 
they did n0t, they mult, as I thought, have endeavoured 
to have faved themfelves on fhore by the help of their 
boat; but their firing of their guns for help, efpecf- 
Ml/}r when they faw, as I imagined, my fire, filled me 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 177 

with my thoughts : Eirft I imagined, that, upon feeing 
my light, they might have put themfelves into their 
boat, and have endeavoured to make the fhore ; but that 
the fea going very high, they might have been call 
away ; other times I imagined, that they might have loft 
their boat before, as mi^t be the cafe many ways ; as 
particularly, by the breaking of the fea upon their fhip, n 
which many times obliges men to ftave, or take in pieces 
their boat ; and fometimes to throw it overboard with 
their own hands : Other times I imagined, they had 
fome other (hip or (hips in company, who, upon the fig- 
nals of diftrefs they had made, had taken them up, and 
Carried' them off: Other whiles I fancied, they were all 
gone off to fea in their boat, and being hurried^ way by 
the current that I had been formerly in; were carried 
out into the great ocean, where there was nothing but 
mifery and>peri{hing j and that perhaps they might by 
this time think of ftarving, and of being in a condition 
to eat one. another/ 

As all thefe were but conjeftures at beft, fo, in the 
condition I was in, I could do no more than look upon 
the mifery of the poor men, and pity them; which had 
ftill this good effed on my fide, that it gave me more 
and more caufe to give thanks to God, who had fo h^* 
pily and comfortably provided for me in my defolate 
condition ; and that of two (hips companies who were* 
DOW caft away up6n this part of the world, not one life 
ihould be fpared but mine. I learnt here again to ob- 
ferve, that it is very rare, that the providence of God. 
cafts us into any condition of life fo low^orany mifery fo- 
grcat,but we may fee fomething or other tx) be thankful forf-. 
and may fee others in worfe circumftances thait^ ir own. 

Such certainly was the ca-fe of thefe men, of whom I 
could not fo much as fee room to fiippofe any of them were* 
fkved ; nothing could make it rational, fo much as tp wifh; 
or exped that they did no: all perifh there, except the 
polTibility only of their being taken up by another Ihip in 
company : And this was but mere po&bUity indeed ; for 
I faw not the leaft fignal or appearance of any fuch things 

I cannot explain, by any poifible ener^^y of words, 
what a flrange longing, or hankering of icfire, I felt^ 
in my foul upon thii fight ; breaking out fometimes 



178 ADVENTURES OP 

tlius : O that there had been but one or two, nay, or b\il 
one foul faved out of the fhip, to have efcaped to mc, 
that I might but have had. one companion, one fellow- 
creature, to have fpokento me, and to have converfed 
>with ! In ail the time of my folitary life, I never felt fo 
«arneft, fo ftrong a defire artei the fociety of my fellow- 
creatures, or fo deep'a regret at the want of it. 

There are fome fecret moving iprihgs in the affec- 
tions, which, when they are fet a going by fome obje6i 
in view, or be it fome objfe6t though not in view^ yet 
rendered prefent to the mind by the power of unagina^ 
tion, that motion carries out the foul by its impetuofity 
to fuch violent, eager embracings of the object, that 
the abfence of it is infupportable. 

Such were thcfe earneft wifhings. That but one man 
had been faved ! O that it had been but one ! I believe I 
repeated the words, O that it had been but •tie 1 a thou-» 
ifend times; and my dcfires were fo moved by it, th^t 
when I fpoke the words, my hands would clinch toge^ 
thtr, and my ^ngcrs prefs the palms of my hands, that 
if I had had any foft thing in my hand, it would have 
crufilecf it involuntarily ; and my teeth in my head 
wqittld ftrike together, and fet againft one another fo 
ftrojig, that for fome time I could not part them again. 

Let the naturalifts explain thefe things, and the reafon 
and manner of them : All I can fay of them, is, todefcribc 
tfce fa<^, which was ever furprifing to me when I found it ; 
tho ' I knew not from what it fhould proceed; it was doubt- 
lefs the effect of ardent wiflies, and of ftrong ideas formed 
in my mind, realizing the comfort which the converfation 
of one of mv fellow-chriftians would have been to me. 

B\it it ^*^.s not to be; either their fate, or mine, or 
both, forbad it ; for till the laft year of my being on this 
ifland, I never knew, whether any were faved out of that 
fllip or no J and had only the affii<ftion fome days after, 
to lee the corpfe of a drowned boy come on fhore, at 
the end of the ifland, which was next the Ihipwreck i 
He had on no clothe s> but a feaman's waiftcoat, a pair 
of open-ljinced lin?n drawers^' and a blue linen fhirt ; but 
nothing to dire<Et me fo muthas toguefs what nation he 
w^ of : He had nothing in his pocket but two pieces of 
r;^Af, a/ida tobo£co-pipe^ the Uft was to me of.teni 
thnt^rtiort vajiie than the ^rft. 1^. 



If was nowcahn, and I had a great ttiind to venture 
out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might 
find fomething on board, :hat might be ufeful to me ; 
but that did not altogether prefs me fo much, as the poffi- 
bility that there might be yet fome living creature on 
board, whole life I might not only fave, but might, by- 
laving that life, comfort my own to the la ft degree : 
And this thought clung fo to my heart, that I coum not 
be quiet night nor day, but I muft venture out in mjr 
boat on board this wreck ; and committing the reft to 
God's providence, I thought the impreffion was fo ftroj^ 
upon my mind, that it i:ould not be refift'ed, that it niuft 
come from fome invisible direction, and that I fliould 
be wanting to myfelf if I did not go. 

Under the power of this impreffion, I haftened bacK 
to mv caftly, prepared every thing for my voyage, toot 
a quantity of bread, a great pot fot frefli water, a com- 
•pafs to fteer by, a bottle of rum (for I had ftill a great 
, deal of that left) a baiket full of raifins : And thus load- 
ing myfelf with every thing necefTary, I went down (9 
my boat, .got the water out of her, and got her afloat, 
loaded all my cargo in her, and then went home agi^a 
for more : My fecond cargo was a great bag full of rice, 
the umbrella to fet up over my head for fhadc, another 
large pot full of frefli water, and about two dozen of aif 
(mall loayes, or barley-cakes, more than before, with A 
bottle of goat's milk, and a cheefe ; all which, with great 
labour and fweat, I brought to my boat ; and praying 
to God to direct my voyage, I put out, and rowing or 
paddling the canoe along tne Ihore, I came at laft to the 
utmoft point of the ifland, on that fide; vi«. N. E. 
And now, 1 was to launch out into the ocean^ and either 
' to venture, or not to venture ; I looked on the rapid 
currents which ranconftantly on both fides of the ifland,, 
at a diftance, and which were very terrible, to irie^ 
from^the remembrance of the hazard 1 had been in be* 
fore, and my heart began to fail me ;. for I fdrefaw, that 
if i was driven into either of thoTe currents, I Ihouldb* 
carried a vaft way ouf to fea, and perhaps out of iT.y 
reach, or fight of the ifland again ; -and that then, af- 
my boat was but fmail, if any Tittle gale of windfUotfid 
rife, I fliould be inevitably lofl. 



1 



90 A 

by the wild bej 
here, when all th| 
aflc, What have 

I was ftruck 
niihed^ and had 
xnyfelf; butrofc' 
retreat, and weiii 
ing to bed ; bin 
I had no inclinai 
and lighted my 
the apprehecfionj 
xne very much, 
fillians take no 
diftempers ; and] 
of the cheils, 
was green, and 

I went, d* 
cheft I found a 
the cheft, and 
bacco ; and as 
i took oat one 
and which> to tl 
much as inclin; 
and brought 
table. 

What ufe to 
jny diftcmper, 
I tried feveral 
it fhoold hitx» 
leaf, and 
almoil ftttpifiei 
ftrong, and thai 
took Tome, aftd 
folved to take 
J burnt fome o[ 
over the fmokc 
for the heat as 
focation. 

Intheint( 
and began t 
ed with ih^ 
time, only 




ill ADVENTURES OF 

in a cabin, and ^^ ^reat powder horn, with about four 
pounds of powder in it ; as for the mufqiiets, I had no 
eccaiion for them, fo I left them, but took the powder- 
horn : I took a fire-ihovel and tongs, which I wanted 
extremely ; as alfo two little brafs kettles, ^ copper pot 
to make chocolate, and a gridiron ; and with this cargo, 
and the dog, I came away, the tide beginning to make 
home" again ; smd the fame evening, about an hour 
within night, I reached the ifland again, weary and 
fetigued to the laft degree; 

I repofed that night in the boat, and in the morning 
I rcfolvcd to Iftirbour what I had gotten in my new cave, 
^ot to carry it home to my caflle : after refrefhing my- 
felf, I got all my cargo on fhore, and began to examine 
the particulars : the cafk df liquor I found to be a kind 

'of runi, but not fuch as we had.at the Brafils ; arwi in a 
word, not at all good ; but when I came to open the 
diefts, I found feveral things which I wanted : for ex- 
ample, I found in one a fine cafe of bottles, of an exti-a- 
ordinary kind, and filled with cordial waters, f?ne, and 
i^cry good ; the bottles held abeut three pints each, and 
were tipped with filvcr ; I found two pots of very good 
fiiccades, or fweetmeats, fo faftened alfo on the top, that 
the fait water had not hurt them ; and two more of the 
flime, which the ^a^ater had fpoiled*. I found feme veiy 
good fhirts, which were very welcome to me, and about 
a- dozen and an half of white linen handkerchiefs, and 

, coloured neckcloths; the former were alfo very wel- 
come, beint; ej^ceeding refreihing to wipe my face in an 
hotd^y ; befides this, when I came to the till in the 
cheks, I found there three great bags of pieces of eight, 
which held about eleven hundred pieces in all ; and m 
one of them wraj^t up in a paper, fix doubloons of gold, 
and fome fmall bars or wedges of gold ; I fuppofc they 
Hii)2;ht all weigh near a pound. 

The other chefl I found had fome clothes in it, but of 
ihtle value ; but by the circumflances it muft have be- 
k^nged to the gunner's mate, though there "wa-s no pow- 
der in it, but about two pounds of ghzed powder, in the 
three flafks, kept, I fuppofe, for charging theirfowling- 
pieces on occalion : upon the whole, 1 got very little by 

this ixrjrage thsLt was of mwrh vie to icw v for> as to the* 



"TOotvft:; 



l> 



ROBINSON CRUSOE.. t%^ 

piioncty, r had oo maiiijer of oecafioii for it ; it wi^tome 
ap.the dirt under toy feet ; and I would have given it 
all for three or four pair of Englifh fhoes and ftotkings^ 
which were things I gre tly^ wanted^ but had not had on 
my feet now for many years'; I had, indeed, gotten two 
pair of fii«es now, which I took off the feet of the two 
drowned men, whom I faw in the wreck;, and I -found 
two piair more in one of the chefts, which were very wel- 
come to me ; but they were not like our ExjKfli fiioea, 
either for eafe or fcrvice, being rather what we call 
pumps than fhops : I found in the feamaa's thefl abou|;« 
fifty pieces of eight in royals, but no gold ; I fuppole 
this belonged to a poorer man than the other, which 
fcemed to belong to fome officer. 

Well, however, I lugged the money home to my cave, ' 
and laid it up, as I had done that before, which i 
brought from our own Ihip; but it was great pity, as I 
faid, that the other part of the (hip had not come to. my 
fhare, for I am fatisfied I might have loaded my canoe 
feveral times over with money, which, if I had evef 
efcaped to England, would have lain here fafe enough 
till I might have come again and fetched it. 

Having now brought all my things on. fhorc, and fc- 
cured them, I went back to my boat, and rowfd or pad- 
dled her along the (hore to-her old harbour, where 1 laid 
her up, and made the beft of my way to my old habita* 
tion, where I found every thing fafe and quiets fo I be» ^ 
gan to repofe myfelf, live after my old fafhion, and take 
care of my family affairs; and for a while I lived eafy 
enough ; only that I was more vigiiant than I ufed to 
be, looked out oftener, and did not go abroad io much; 
and if at any. time 1 did ftir with any freedom, it was 
alwey$ to the eaft part of the ifland, where I ^ya's prettji 
well fatisfied the favages never came, and where I could 
go without fo many precautions, and fuch a load of 
arms and ammunition^ as I always carried with me, if I 
went the other way. 

I lived in this condition near two ytars more ; but 
my unlucky head, that was always to let me know it ' 
was born to make my body miferable, was all thofe tvret 
years filled with projefts and dcfigns, how, if it were 
pdtble, I might get away fiom this ifla^; for fome- 



284 ADVENTURES OF 

times I was for making another voyage to the wreck, 
though my reafon told me that there was nothing left 
, there worth the hazard of my voyage : fometimes for a 
ramble one way, fometimes another : and I believe ve- 
rily, if I had had the bogt that 1 went from Sallee in^ I 
Ihould have ventured ta fea, bound any where, I kneW 
not whither.' 

• I have been, in all my cireumftances, a memento to 
thofe who are touched with that general plague of man- 
kind, whence, for aught 1 know, one half of their mife- 
ries flow ; I mean, that of not being fatiisfied with the fta- 
tion wherein God and nature hath placed them ; for, not 
to look back u]>on my primitive condition, and the ex- 
cellent advice of my father, the oppolition to which was, 
^s I may call it, my original fin, my fubfequent miftakes 
of the fame kind have been the means of my coming in- 
to this miferable condition ; for had that Providence, 
which fo happily had feated me at the Brazils as a plant- 
er, blelTed me with confined defires, and could I have 
been contented to have g ne on gradually. I might have" 
been by this time, I mean in the time of my being on 
this ifland, one of the moft comfortable planters in the 
Brazils ; nay, I am perfuaded, thatby the improvements 
I had made in that little time I liv^d there, and the" in- 
creafe I fhould probably have made, if I had ftayed, I 
might have been worth an hundred thoufand moidores, 
and what bufinefs had I to leave a fettled fortune^ well- 
Itocked plantation, improving and increafing, to turniu- 
perc irgo to Guinea, to fetch Negroes, when patience and 
tirn^ would have fo increafed our i!ock at home; that we 
c6uld have bought them at our own doors, from thofe 
whofe bufinefs it was to fetch them ; And though it had 
Co'l us fomething more, -yet the difference of that price 
was by no means worth faving at fo great a hazard. 
- But as this is ordinarily the fate of young heads, fo re- 
fefi:ion upon the foil, of it, is as ordinarily the exercife 
cf more years, or of the dear-bought experience of time y 
and fo it was with mcnow ; and yet fo deep had the mif- - 
-take taken root in my temper, that I could. not fat isfy 
m/felf in my flat ion, but was continually poring upon 
the means and poflibility of my efcape from this place ; . 
Mpd that I tusLy^ witli the grcaiey pLeafUre to the reade- ,; 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 185 

bring on the remaining part of my ftory, if may not be 
improper to give fome account of my firft conceptions on 
the fubjec^ of this foolilh fcheme tor my efcape ; and 
how, and upon what foundation, I afte'd. 

I am now to be fuppofedto be retired into mycaftfe, 
after my late voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up, 
s»nd fecured under water as ufusl, and my condition re- 
ftored to what it was before ; I had more wealth, in^ 
deed, than I had before, but was not at all the richer ^ 
for I had no more ufe for it than the Indians of Peru 
had before the Spaniads came thither. 

It was one of the nights, in the rainy fcafon in Man h, 
the four and twentieth year of my firft fetting foot in thp 
ifland of fofitarinefs, I was lying in my bed or ham- 
mock, awake, and very well in health, had no pain, no 
diftanper; no uneaiinefs of body, no, nor any uneafine fs 
of mind more than ordinary, but could by no means 
clofe my eyes j that is, fo as to flcep ; no, not a wick 
ail night long, othenvife than as foRows : . • 

It is as impoiTible as ncedlefs, tp fet down the innu*. 
merable croud of thoughts hat whirled through that 
great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory, in this 
night's time : I ran over the whole hiftory of my life? • 
in miniature, or by abridgment, as I may call it, to my 
coming to this ifland ; and alfo of that part of my life, 
fmce I came to this ifland ; in my reflection? up€«i the 
ftate of my cafe, fince I came on Ihore on this iOand ; 
I ^was comparing the happy poflure of affairs^ in 
th'e fii-ft years of my habitation here, to that courfc of 
anxiety, fear and care, whi h J h?d lived in ever fince 
I had feen the print of a foot in the {znd ; not that 1 did . 
not believe the favages Had frequented the iil?.nd even 
all the while, and might have been feveral hundred's, of 
them at times 021 fliore there ; but as I had ever knowiv 
it, and was incapable of any apprehenfiong about it, 
my fati6fa«5tion was perfc<5t, though my danger was the 
fame .; and I was as happy in not knowing my danger, 
as if I had never really been expoled to it ; thus hir- 
iiiihed my thoughts with many very profitable reflec- 
tions, and particularly this one, How infinitely good 
that Providence is, which has fettled in its government 
of mankind fuch nsrrrow bounds to' his fight and know-^ 



i86 ADVENTtJRES OF 

kdge of things ; and though he walks in the midA of fo 
many thoufand dangers, the fight of which, if difcovered 
to him, would diftra6t his mind, and fink his fprits, he 
is kept ferene and' calm, ty having the events of tilings 
hid from his eyes, and knowing nothing of the dangers 
which fur round him. ^ ' 

After thefetlioughts h^ for fome time entertained me, 
I came^ to reflect ferioudy upon the real danger I had 
been in for fo many years in this very ifland ; and how 
1 had walked about in the greatefl fecurity, and with 
all poffible tranquility, even perhaps when nothing but 
a brow of an hill, a gr^at tree, or tne cafual approach of 
night, had bfen between me and the worft kind of de- 
ftrud^lon ; , viz. that of falling into the hands of canibals 
and favages, who would have fcized on me with the 
feme vi^w as I did on a goat or a turtle, and have 
thought it no more crime to kill and devour me, than 
\ did of a pigeon or. a cuclieu ; 1 iliould unjuftly flandei? 
myfelf, if I &ouidfay I was not lincerely thankful to my 
great Preferver, to whofc fingular protection I acknow- 
ledged, with great h\unility, that all ihefe unknown dcr 
Uverances were due, and without which I ihouid incvi* 
tihiy h. ve fallen into their mercilefs hands. 

When thefe thoughts were over, my head was for 
fsyjxit time t^en up in confiderine the nature of thc^fe 
wretched creatures, I mean the lavages ; and how it 
iame to pais in the world, that the wife governor of all 
things mould give -up any of his creatures to fuch inhu- 
flaanjty, nay, to fomethingfo much below even brutality 
itfiplf, as to devour its own kind; but at this ended in 
fbme (at that time fruitlels) fpeculations, it occurred to 
aie to inquire what part of the world thefe wretches 
Jived in ; how far off the coaft was from when<te they 
^ame ; what they ventured fo far from home for ; what 
kind of boats they hadj aiKl why 1 might not order my- 
felf and my bufinefs fo, that i might be as able to go 
over thither, as they were to come to mel 

I never fomuch astroubledm^felf toconfider,what I 
ihould do with myfelf when J came thither, what Ihould 
becqrnc of me, if I fell into the hands of the favages ; or 
how I fhould efcape from them, if they attempted me ; 
ao^ norh jjiuc)x as how it was poifible for ^e to reach the 



R O B I N S O N ^C R U S E. i^y 

coaft, and not be attacked by fonre or other of them, 
without any pollibility of dcliveringinyfelf; and if lihould 
hot fall into their hand ^, what I fho jld do for pro vifion, or 
whither I ihould bend mjr courfe ; none of thefethoughts, 
I fay, fo much as came in my way ; but my mind was 
wholly bend upon the notion of my pafling over in my 
boat to the main land : I looked back upon my prefcnt 
condition as the moil miferable that could poflibly be ; 
that 1 was not able to throw myfelf into any thing bat 
death that could be called worfe ; that if I reached the 
fhore of the main, I might, perhaps, meet with relief ; 
or I might coaft along, ^s I did on the fliore of Africa^ 
till I came to fome inhabited country, and where I 
might find fome Chriftian fliip that might take me in J 
und if the worftcame to the worft^ I could but die, whkh 
would put an end to all thefe mifei ies at once. Pray, 
note, all this was the fruit of a difturbed mind, an ina- 
ptienat temper, made, as it were, defperale by the loirg 
coatinuance of my troubles, aiid the disappointments I 
had met in the wreck I had been on board of, and wheHs 
1 had been fo hear the obtaining of what 1 fo earneMy 
longed for, viz. fomcbody to fpeak to^ and to learn 
ibme knowledge from, of the place where I was, and of 
the probable means of my deliverance : I iky, I wak 
agitated wholly by thefe thoughts. All my cahn of 
mind in my refignation to Providence, and waiting tht 
iffue of thedifpofitions of heaven^ feemcd to he fufpen^ 
ed; and I had, as it were, no power to turn my thoughts 
to any thing but the projecEt ef a voyage to the main, 
which came upon me with fuch force, and fuch an im- 
petuofity of defire, that it was not to be rcfifted. 

When this had agitated my thoughts for twa hours 
or more, with fuch violence, that it fet my very blood 
into a ferment, and my pulfe beat as Kigh as if I had 
been in a fever, merely with the extraoniinary fer- 
vour of my mind about it : nature, as if i had been 
frtig\ied and exbau^ed with the. very thought of if, 
threw me into a found l]?ep : one would have thought 
I fliolild have dreamed of it ; but I did not, nor of any 
tiling relating to it , but I dreamed, that as I was going 
out n the inornirg, as ufual, from my caftle, I faw 



m ' ADVEliT.URES OF 
tipon the ihore two canoes, and eleven favages coming tci 
land, and that they brought with them another favag^ 
whom they were going to kill, in order to eat him ; when 
on a faddcn, the favage that they were going to kill jump- #. 
cd away, and ran for his life ; then I thought in my fleep, 
that he came running into my little thick grove, before 
my fortification, to hide himfelf ; and tliat I feeing him 
alone, and not perceiving that the others fought him that 
way, (hewed myfelf to him, and fmiling upon hira encou- ^ 
raged him : that he kneeled dj3^n to .me, leeming to 
pray me to afiift hxm ; upon which I fliewed my ladder, 
jT-ade him go up it, and carried him int^ my ^^y^j, and 
he became my fervant ; and that as foon as I had g^ctten 
this man, I fald to myffilf, now I may certainly venture 
to the main land ; for tliis fellow will fer/e me as a 
pilot, and will tell me what to do, and whither to^c^for 
provifions, and whither hot to go for fear of being devour- 
ed, what places to venture into, and what to efcapel I 
waked with this thought, and was under fuch inexprcffi- 
ble imprelfions of joy at the profped of my efcape in 
zny dream, that the difappointments which I felt upon 
coming to myfdf, and fmding it was no more tlian a 
dream, were equally extravagant the other way, and 
threw me into a very great dejedion of fpirit. 
i Upon this, however, I made this conclufion, that 
my only way to go about an attempt for an efcape, was, 
.if poflible, to get a' favage m my pofTefiion ; and, if 
pofiible, it iliould be one of their prifoners whom they 
had condemned to be eaten, and fhould bring hither to 
kill; but thefe thoughts dill were attended witli this 
difHculty, that it was . impoISble to efFe£l this, without 
lattackinga whole caravan of them, and killing them all "; 
and this was not only a very defperate attempt, and 
might mifcarr\' ; but, on the other hand, I had greatly 
fcru pled the lawful nefs of it to me, and my heart trem- 
bled at the thoughts of fhedding fo much blood, tho* J 
it was for my deliverance ; I need not repeat ,the argu- % 
ments which occurred to me againft tiiir, they being the 
fame mentioned before : but though 1 had otiier reafoi>s 
to offer now; viz.. that thofe men were enenics to my 
life, and would devour me, if they <jould ; that it was 
/clf'prefcrvation in the Vv\g\ve&. ae^x^ci, \q SLd\\^i myfelf 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 189 

from this death of a life, and was adling in my own 
defence, as much as if they were adually ^fiaultlng me, 
and the like ; I fay, though thefe things argued for ir, 
yet the tliougljts of ftiedding human blood for my de- 
liverance were very terrible to me, and fuch as I could 
by no means reconcile myfelf to a great while. 

Ht)wever, at laft, after many fecret difputes with myfelf, 
and after great perplexities about it (for all thefe argu- 
Jliients, one way and another, ftruggled in my h^ a long 
time) the eager prevailing defire of deliverance at length 
mattered all the reft, and 1 refolved, if poflible, to get one 
of thefe favages into my hands, coft what it would : my 
next things then was to contrive how to do it ; and this in- 
deed was very difficult to refolve on : but as I could pitch 
upon no probable means for it, fo I refolved to put myfelf 
upon the watch to fee them when they came on Ihor-e, and 
leave the reft to the event, taking fuch meafures as.thq 
opportunity (hould prefent, let it be what it would. 

With thefe refolutions in my thoughts, I fet myfelf 
upon the fcout as often as oolSble, and indeed fo often, 
till I was heartily tired of it ; for it was above a year 
and an half that I waited, anl for a great part of that 
time went out to the weft end, and to the fouth-weft 
corner of the ifland, almoft every day to fee the canoes, 
but none appeared : this was very difcouraging, and be- 
gan to. trouble me much ; tho' i can*t fay that it did in ' 
this cafe as it had done fome time before that ; viz. . . 
wear off the edge of my delirc to the thing ; but the 
longer it feemed to be delayed, the more eager I was 
for it : in a word, " I was not at firft more careful to fhun 
the fight of thefe favages, and avoid being feen by 
them, than I was now eager to be upon them. 

Befides, I fanokd myfelf able to manage one, nayi t\Vo 
or three favages, if 1 had them, (o as to make them en- 
tirely Haves to me>. to do whatever I (hould direifl them, 
and' to prevent their bv-ir.g able, at any time, to dome 
any hurt ;- it was a great, while that I pleafed myfelf 
with tliis affair, biit nothing ftill prefentcd ; all my 
fancies and fchemes came to nothing, for no favages 
came jtf ar me'for a great while. 

About a year and an haY after I hacf entertained thefe 

notions, and, by long muling, kadL as it were, refolved 

. ^ • ' ^ them 



190 ADVENTURES OF ^ 

them all into nothing, for want of an pccaiion to put 
them in execution, 1 was furprifed one mofning early, 
with feeing no lels than five canoes all oA fhdre together, 
on my fide the ifland, and the people who belonged to 
them all landed, and out of my fijjht : the number of 
them broke all my meafures ; for fieing fo many, and 
knowing that they always came four, or CiXy or Ibme- 
times more, in a boat, I could not tell what to think of 
it, or how to take my meafures to attack twenty or thirty 
men fingle-handed ; fo I lay ftill in my callle, perplexed" 
and difcomforted ; however, I put myfeif into all the 
fame poftures for an attack, that I had formerly provided, 
and was juft ready for a6tion, if any thing had prefentcd: 
havmg waited a good while, liftening tb hear if they* 
made any noife, at length being very impatient, I fet my 
guns at the foot of my ladder, and clambered up to the 
X top of the hill by my two ftages, as ufual ; Handing fo 
however, that my head did not appear above the hill; 
fo thjt they could not perceive me by any means : here 
I obfervcd, by the help of my perfpc6li ve-glafs, that they 
were nx> lefsthan thirty in number, that they had a fire 
kindled, and that they had had meat dreffed ; how they 
cooked it, that I knew not, or what it was; but they 
were all dancing in I knew not how many barbarous 
geftures and figures, their own way, round, the fire. 

When I was thus looking on them, 1 perceived by 
my perfpedtive two miferabje wretches dragged from the 
boats, where, it feems, they were laid by, and were now 
brought out for the flaught^r : I perceived one df them 
immediately fall, being xnocked down, I fuppojfe, with 
a tlub or wooden fword, for that was their way ; and 
two or three others were at work immediately, cutting 
him c^n for their cookery, while the other yiftim was 
left ftanding by himfelf, till they ihould be ready for him : 
in that very niomeht this poor wretch feeing himfelf a 
little at liberty, nature infpired him with hojjes of life, 
and he flarted away from them, and ran with incredible 
fwiftnefs aloug the fands, dire^ly towards me, I mean 
towards that pirt of the coaft where my habitation was. 

I was dreacffulJy frighted j(that I muft acknowledge) 
when I perceived him to run my way ; and efpecially 
ivhen, &s 1 thought, 1 fa\^.hIm ptfrfucd by the whole 



HOB INS ON CRUSOE- 191 

body ; and now I expected that part of my dream wa« 
coming to pafs, and that he would certainly take fhelter 
in my grove ; but I could not depend, by any means, 
upon my dream for the reft of it, viz. that the other ^* 
vages would not purfue him thither, and find him there : 
However, I kept my ftation, and my fpirits began to re- 
cover, when 1 found that there were not above three 
men that followed him ; and ftill more was I encou- • 
raged, when I found that he outftript them exceedingly \ 
in running, and gained ground of them, fo that if he 
could but Hold it for half an hour, I faw eafily he would 
fairly get away from them all. 

There was between them and my caftle the^ creek, 
which I mentioned ofte/i at the firft part of my ftoiy, 
where I landed my cargoes out of the (kip ; and this I 
knew, he muft neceflarily fwim over, or the poor wretch 
would be taken there : But when the favage efcaping 
came thither, he made nothing of it, tho* the tide was 
then lip J but plunging in, fwam thro' in about thirty 
ftit>kcsor''thereabouts, landed, and ran on with exceed- 
ing ftrength and fwiftnefs;. when the three purfuers'' 
came to the creek, I found that two of them could fwim, 
but the third could not, and that he ftanding on the 
other fide, looked at the other, but went no farther ; 
and foon after went loftlyback again, which, as it hap- 
pened, was very well for him in the main. 

I obferved that the two whom fwam, werd yet more 
than twice as \ong fwimming over thtTcreek, than the 
fellow was that fled from them : It came now very 
warnily upon my thoughts, and indeed irrefiftiby, that 
now was my time to get me a fervant, and perhaps a 
companion, or affiftant, and that I was called plamly 
. by Providence to fave this poor creature's life : I im- 
mediately got down the ladders with all poffible expe- 
dition, fetched my two guns, for they were both at the 
' foot of the laddec, as I obferved above ; and getting 
up again with the fame hade to the top of the hill, 
I eroded towards thefca ; and, having a vexy Ihortcut, 
and all dowh-hill, clapped myfelf in the way between 
the purfucrs and the purfued, hallooing aloud to him 
that fled, who^ looking back, was at firft perhaps'ajs 
much'frfghted at aie 9s at tUtav ; VsmX. V\^«2tosiR.^^«>c$sw 



192 AD VENTURE S OF 

my hand to him to come back, and in the mean time, I 
flo^ly advanced towards the two that followed ; then ruih- 
ing at once upon the foremoft, I knocked him down with 
the flock of my place ; I was loth to fire, becaufe I would 
not have the reft hear ; tho' at that diftance it would not 
have been eafily heard ; and being out of fight of the 
imoke too, they would not have eafily Icnown what to 
make of it. Having knocked this fellow down, the other 
who purTued him ftopped, as if he had been frightened, 
and I advanced apade towards him ; but as I came nearei* 
I perceived prefently he had a bow and arrow, and was 
fitting it to fhoot at me ; fo I was then neceffitated to 
fhoot at him first ; which I did, and killed him at the firft 
fhot. The poor fayage who fled, but had flopped, the* 
he faw both his enemies fallen, and killed (as he thought) 
yet was fo frighted with the hre and noife of my peace, 
that he flood lock-ftill, and neither came forward, nor 
went backward, tho' he feemed rather inclined to fly flill, 
tlian to come on. I hallooed again to him, and made figns 
to come forward, which he eafily underftopd, and came 
a little way, then flopped again, and then a little farther, 
and flopped again, and I could then perceive that he flood 
trembling, as if he had been taken prifoner, and had jufl 
been to be killed, as his two enemies were. I beckoned 
him again to come to me, and gave him all the figns of 
encouragement, that I couy think of ; and he came nearer 
and nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve fleps, in 
token of acknov • dgnient for favine his life. I fmiled- 
at him, and looked pleafantly, and beckoned to him to 
Qome flill nearer. At length he came clofe to me, and 
then. he kneeled down again, kified the ground, and laid 
his head upon the ground^ and taking me by the foot, 
fet my foot upon his head : This, it feems, was in token 
cf fwearing'to be my flave for ever. I took him %ip, 
and made much of him, and encouraged him all 1 
could. But there was more work to do yet : for I per- 
ceived the favage, whom I knocked down,^was not killed, 
but flunned with the*blow% and began to come to him- 
felf : So I pointed to him and fhewed him the favage, that 
ke was not 4ead, upon this he fpoke fome words to me ; ' 

and tho' I could not underflfind them, yet I thought I 

they were plesifa,at to hesur, for tVie^ nn^xc the firfl found I 



V 

\ 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 193 

of a man's voice that! ha4 heard, my own excepted, for 
above five and twenty years : but there was ho time for , 
fuch refle6lions now; the favage, who was knocked 
down, recovered himfelf fo far, as to fit upon the 
ground ; and I perceived that my favage began to be 
afraid ; but when I faw that, I prefented my other piece 
at the man, as if I would flioot him ; upon this my fai 
vage, for fo I call him now, made a motion to me to 
lend him my fword, which hung naked in a belt by my 
fide ; fo I did : he no fooner had it, but he runs to his 
enemy, and at one blow cut off his head as cleverly, no 
executioner in Germany could have done it fooner or bet- 
ter ; which I thought it very flrange for one, who, 1 had 
reafon to believe, never faw a fword in his life before^ 
except their own wooden fwords; however, it feems, as 
I learned afterwards, they made their wooden fivords fo 
fliarp, fo heavy, and the wood is fo hard, that they will 
cut off heads even with them, ay, and arms, and that at 
one blow too. When he had done this, he comes laugh- 
ing to me in fign of triumph, and brought me the fword 
' again, and with abundance of geflures, which I did not 
underfland, laid it down with the head of the favage that 
he had killed, jufl before me. 

• But that which aflonifhed him moft was, to know how 
I had killed the other Indian fo far off; fo pointing to him, 
he made figns to me to let him go to him : fo I bade him 
go, as well as I could ; when he came to him, he flood 
like one amazed, looking at him ; turned him firfl on one T 
fide, then on t'other; looked at the wound the bullet had 
made, which it feems was jufl in his bresll. where it had 
made an hole, and no great quj^ntity of blood had fol- 
lowed, but he had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead : 
then he took up his bow and arrows, and came back ; fo 
I turned to go away, and beckoned to him to follow me, 
making figns to him, that more might come after them. 

Upon this hefignedtome, that he fliould bury them 
with fand, that they might not be feen by the refl, if 
they followed ; and fo 1 made figns again to him to do 
fo ; he fell to work and in an inflant lie had fcrapcd an 
liole in the fand with his hands, big ei^ough to bury 
the firfl in, and then dragged him into it, and covcrei 
him, and did fo alfo by the other ; I believe he had bu* 

Vol, I. I ^Ss.'Ji. 



^ 



¥ 



194 ADVENTURES OF 

ried them both in a quarter of an hour ; then calling. 1 
him away, I carrle4 him nOt to my calWe, but quite away^^f 
to my cave, on the farther part of the ifland ; fo 1 dul< i 
not let my dream come to pafs in that part, viz. tliat h(^^* 
came into my grove for fhelter. i 

Here I gave him bread, and a bunch of raiiins to cat^ 
and a draught of water, which I found he was indeed in 
great diftrefs for^ by his running ; and having refrefhed 
him, I made figns for him to go lie down and fleqp, 
pointing to a place where I had laid a great parcel of rice 
llraw, and a blanket upon it, which I ufed to fleep upoa 
jnyfelf fometimes ; fo the poor creature lay down, and 
went to fleep. 

He was a comely handfome fellow, perfedWy well made, 
with ftraight long limbs, not too large, tall, and well- 
fhaped, and, as I reckon, abount twenty-fix years of age. 
He had a very good countenance, not a fierce and furly 
afpedlj but feemed to have fomediing very manly in his 
face, and yet he had all the fweetneft and foftnefs of an 
European in his countenance too, efpecially when he 
fmiled: his hair was long and black, not c«rled like 
, wool; his forehead very nigh and large, and a great 
vivacity and fparkling (harpnefs in his eyes. The colour 
of his ikin was not quite black, but very tawny, and ypt 
not of an ugly yellow naufeous tawny, as the Brafilians-, 
^nd Virginians, and other natives of America are, but of 
a bright kind of a dun ojive colour, thathad in it fome- 
thxng very agreeable, tho' not very eafy to defcribe. His 
face was round and plump, his nofe fmaVl, not flat like 
the negj-oes, a very good mouth, thin lips, and his teeth 
fine, well-let, and white as ivory. After he had flumbcr^ 
ed, rather than flept, about half an hour, he waked a^ain, 
and comes out of the cave to me, for I had been milking 
ihy goats,' which Ihad in the inclofure juft by; when 
he pu>ie4 tne, he came funning to me, laying himfelf 
doisfif^^in upon the ground, with all the poffible flgns 
of ah huSfnble thankful difpofltion, making many antick 
geftures to flicw it. At laft he lays his head flat upon the 
ground, clofe to my foot, and fets his other foot upon his 
head, as he done before; and after this, made all the 
figns to me of fubjetlion, fervitude, and fubmiflion imagi- 
nable to let me know how much he woull ferve me as 

long 



RORINSON CRUSOE. 195 

OTig as he lived : I underftood him in many things, and 
let him know I was very well pleafed with him ; in a 
little time I began to fpeak to him, and teach him to 
fpeak to me ; and firft, I made him know his name Ihould 
be Friday, which was the day I faved his life ; and I 
^ called him for the memory of the time ; I likewife taught 
him to fay matter, and then let him know that was to be 
my name ; I likewife taught him to fay Yes and No, and 
to know the meaning of them; I gave him foroe milk in 
an earthen pot, and let him fee me drink it before him, 
and fop my bread in it ; and I gave him a cake of bread 
to do the like, which he quickly complied with, and made 
iigns that it was very good for him. 

I kept there with him all that night, but as foon as it 
was day, I beckoned on him to come with me, and let him 
know I would give him fome clothes, at which he feemed 
very glad, for he was ftark-naked. As we went by the 
place where we had buried the two" men, he pointed ex- 
adlly to the fpot, and (hewed me the marks that he had 
made to find them again, making figns to me that we 
Ihould dig them up again, and eat* them; at this I ap- 
peared very angry, exprefled my, abhorrence of it, made 
as if I would vomit at the thoughts of it, and beckoned 
with my hand to him to come away, wliich* he did im- 
pa^diately, with great fubmiflion : I then led him up to 
the top of the hill, to fee if his enemies were gone, and 
pulling out my glafs, I looked, and faw plainly the place 
where they had been, but no appearance of them, or of 
their canoes ; fo that it was plain that they were gone, 
and had left their comrades behind them, without any 
fearch after them. 

But I was not content with tnis difcovery, but hav- 
ing now more courage, and confequently more curiofity, 
I took my man Friday with me, giving him the fword iii 
his hand, with the bow and arrows at his back, which I ^ 
found he could ufe very dexteroufly, making him carry 
one gun for me, and I two for myfelf, ana away we 
marched to the place where thefe creatures had been ; 
far I had a mind now to get fome fuller intelligence of 
them: when I came to the place, my very blood ran 
chill in my vicns, and mjr heart fuck within me at the 
horror of the fpedacie; mdced it was a dreadful fight, 

I 2 V 



196 ADVENTURES OF 

at leaft it was fo to me, though Friday made nothing t>f 
it: the place wascovered with human bones, the ground 
dyed with the blood., great pieces of flelli left here* and 
there, half eaten, manglad, and fcorched ; and in fhort, 
all the tokens of the triuijjphant feaft they had been 
making there, after a vi^oiy over their enemies : I faw 
three fkulls, five hands, and the bones of three or four 
legs and feet, and abundance of other parts of the bo- 
dies; andFriday, by hisfigns, made me underftand, that 
they brought over four prifoners to feaft upon ; that three 
of them were eaten up, and that he, pointing to himfelf, 
was the fourth ; that there had been a great battle be- 
tween them and their next king, whofe fubje6ls, it 
feems, he had been one of ; and that they had taken a 
great number of prifoners, all which were carried to 
leveral- places by thofe that had taken them in the flight, 
in order to feaft upon them, as was done here by thefe 
wretches upon thofe they brought hither. 

I c'aufed. Friday to gather all the flculls, bones, flefli^ 
^nd whatever remained, and lay them, together on an 
heap, and make a great fire upon it, 'and burn them all 
to arfies: I found Friday had ftill an hankering ftomach 
after fome of the fl?fh, ^d was ftill a canibal in his iia* 
ture ; but I difcovered fo much abhorrence at the very 
thoughts of it, and at the leaft appearance of it, that lie 
durftnotdifcoverit ; for I had, by fome means, let him 
know, that I Avould kill him if he offered it. 

When we had done this, we came back to our caftle, 
and there 1 fell to work for my man Friday; and fir ft of all^ 
I gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I had oi^t of the 
poor gunner's cheft I mentioned, and which 1 found in 
thejyreck ; and which, with a little alteration, fitted him 
very well ; then I made him a jerkin of goat's (kin, as well 
as my fkiH would allow, and I was now grown a tolera- 
ble good t ay lor ; and I gave him a cap, which I had 
made of an hare-ikin, very convenient, and fafliionable 
enough : and thus he wasdrefled, for the prefent, tolera- 
l)ly well, and mighty well was he pleafed to fee himfelf 
almoft as well clothed as hismafter : it is true he went 
aukwardly in thefe things at firft ; wearing the drawers 
was very auk ward to hixn, and the flecves of the jvaiftroat 
galled his /boulders, and the infide of his arms ; but a little 



^ ROBINSON CRUSOE. x^f 

tafing them, where he complained they hurt him, and 
ufing himfelf to them, at length he took to them very well. 

'i he next day after I came home to my hutch with 
him, I began to confider wheVe I ftiould lodge him ; and 
that I might do well for him, and yet be perfectly eafy 
myfelf, I made a little tent for him in the vacant place 
between my two fortifications, in the infide of the laft, 
and in the outfide of the firft : And as there was a door 
or entrance there into my cave, I made a formal framed 
door-cafe, and a door to it of boards, and fet it up iit 
the palTage, a little within the entrance ; and caufing the 
door to open on the infide, I barred it up in the nighty 
taking in my ladders too ; fo that Friday could no way 
come at me in the infide of my innennoft wall, withoun 
making fo much noifein getting over, that itmuiHieJed* 
awaken me ; for my Rr^ wall had now a complete roof 
over it of long poles, covering all my tent and leaning. 
up to the fide of the hill, which was again laid trofs witk 
fmall flicks initead of laths, and then thatched over a 
great thicknefs with the rice draw, which was flrong 
Mke reeds ; and at the hole or place which was left to' 
go in or out by the ladder, I had placed a kind of trap^ 
door, which if it had been attempted on the outfide, 
would not have opened at all, but would have fallen, 
down, and made a great noife; and as to weapons, I 
took them all in to my fide every night. 

But I needed none of all this precaution ; for never 
man had a more faithful, loving, fincere fervant than 
Friday was to me ; without pamons, fuUennefs, or de- 
iigns; perfc6tly obliging and engaging; his very afFeo 
tions were tied to me, like thofe of a child to a father; 
and I dare fay, he would have facrificcd his life for the 
faving mine, upon any occafion whatfoever : the many* 
teflimonies he gave me of this, put it out of doubt; 
and foon convinced me, that I needed to \ift no precau* 
tions as to my fafety on his account. 

This frequently gave me occafion to obferve, and that 
wjth wonder, that, however it had pleafed God in his 
providence, and in the government of the works of his 
hands to take from fo great a part 6f the world of his 
creatures, the beft ufes to which their faculties, and the 
powers of their fouls, are adapted,- yet that he has be- 



i 



198 ADVENTURE OF 

flowed upon them the fame powers, tht^mc reafon, the 
iame afFetlions, the fame fentiments of kindnefs and 
obligation, the fame paflions and refentments of wrongs,, 
the fame fenfe of gratitude, fmcerity, fidelity, and all 
the capacities of doing good, and receiving gopd, that 
he has given to us ; ana that when he plf^afes to offer 
them occafions of exerting thefe, they are as ready, nay, 
more ready to apply them to the right ufes for which 
they were beftowed, than we are. And this made me 
very melancholy fometimes, in reflefting, as the feveral 
ccca£ons prefented, how mean an ufe we make of all 
thefe, even though we have thefe powers enlightened by 
the great lamp of inftru£Upn, thei]f>irit of God, and by 
the knowledge of his word, added to our underftanding ; 
and iffhy it has pleafed God to hide the like favingknow* 
ledge from fo many millions of fouls, who, if I might 
jmTge by this poor favage, would make a much better 
»ife of it than v/e did. ^ . 

From hence I fometimes was led too far to invade the 
fovereignty of providence ; and, as it were, arraign the 
jufHce ei"fo arbitrary a difpofition of things, that fhould 
hide that light from fome, and reveal it to others, and 
yet CyXpeft a like duty from both : but I fhut it up, and 
checked my thoughts with this conclufion : Firft, that 
we do not know by what light and law thefe fhould be 
condemned ; but that, as God was neceffarily, and by the 
nature of his being, infinitely holy and juft, fo it could 
not be, but that if thefe creatures were all fentenced to 
abfence from himfelf, it was on account of finning againft 
that light, which, as the fcripture fays, was a law to 
themfelves, and by fuch rules as their confciences would 
acknowledge to be jufl, though the foundation was not 
difcovered to us : And, fecondly, that fliil, as we are all 
clay in the hand of the potter, no veiTel could fay to 
him. Why haft thou formed me thus ? 

But to return to my new companion : I was greatly 
delighted with him, and made it my bufmefs to teach 
him every thing that was proper to make him ufeful, 
handy, and helpful ; but especially to make him fpeak^ 
and underftand me wh^n I fpakc ; and he was the aptelt 
fcholar that ever was ; and particularly was fo merry, 
fo conlhntly diligent, and fo pleafed ^hen he could but 

>Mvdftrftand 



ROBINSON CRUSOE.' 199 
underftand me, or rn^e me underftand him, that it was 
very pleafant to me to talk to him ; and now my life 
began to be fo eafy, that I began to fay to myfelf, that 
could I but ha^ lien fafe from more favages, I cared not 
if I was never to remove from the place while I lived. 

After I had been two or three days returned to my caf- 
tle, I thought, that, in order to bring Friday off from his 
horrid way of feeding, and from the relifh of a canibaPs 
ftomach, I ought to let mm tafte other flefh ; fo I took 
him out with me one morning to the woods ; I went, in- 
deed, intending to kill a kid out of my own flock, and 
bring it home and drefs it : But as I was going, I faw a 
fhe-goat lying down in the Ihade, and two yDung kids 
fitting by her : I catched hold of Friday, Hold, l^d Ij 
liand ftill ; and made figns to him not toftir ; immediattily 
I prefentedmy piece, mot and killed one of the kids. The 
|)oor creature, who had at a diftance, indeed, feen me kill 
the favage, his enemy, but did not know, or could ima- 
gine, how it was done, was fenfibly furprifed, trembled 
and fhook, and looked fo amazed, that I thought he 
would have funk down : He did not fee the kid I hiad 
fhot at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped ujp his waift- 
coat.to feel if he was not wounded ; and, as I foun4^ pre- 
fendy thought I was refolved to kill him ; for he came and" 
kneeled down to me, and, embracing my knees, f2ad a 
great many things'! did not underftand, but I could eaiily 
^e, that his meaning was to pray me not to kill him. 

I foon found a way to convince him, that I would do 
him no harm ; and taking hinr tip by the hand, laughed 
.at him, and, pointing to" tSe kid which I had killed, 
beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he did ; and 
while he was wondering and looking to fee how the 
creature was killed, I loaded my gun again, and by-and 
by I f^w a great fowl, like and hawk, fit upon a tree with- 
in fhot ; fo, to let Friday underfland a little what I would 
do, I called him to me again, pointing at the fowl, which 
was indeed a parrot, though I thought it had been an* 
hawk ; I fay, pointing to the parrot, and to my gun, and 
to the ground under the^ parrot, to let him fee I would, 
makelum fall, I made him underftand that I would flioot 
and kill that bird ; accordingly I fired, and hid hihiTook, 
aind immediately he faw thm parrot fall : He ftood like^ 
I ^ ^s^ 



aoo ADVENTURES OF 

one frighted again, notwithftanding all that I had faid 
to him; and I found he was the more amazed, becaiife 
he did not fee me put any thing into the gun ; but thought 
there muft be feme wonderful fun^ of death and dellruc- 
tion injhat thing, able to kill man, beaft, bird, or any 
thing near or far off ; for the aftonifhmcnt this created in 
him, was fuch, as could not wear off for a long time ; 
and I believe, if I would have let him, he would have' 
worlhipped me and my gun : as for the gun itfelf, he 
would not fo much as touch it for feveral days after ; but 
would fpeak to it, and talk to it, as if it had anfwered 
him, when he was by himfelf ; which, as I afterwards 
learned of him, was to defireit not to kill him. 

Well : after his aftonifhment was a little over at this, 
I pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had fhot, 
which he did, but flaid fome time j for the parrot, not 
being quite dead, was fluttered a good way oiF from the 
place where £he fell ; however he found her, took her up,' 
^d brought her to me ,• and, as I had perceived his^ ig^ 
norance about the gun before, I took diis advantage to 
charge the gun again, and not let him fee me do it, that 
I might b«.ready for any othdr mark that might prefent j 
but nothing more offered at that time ; fo I brought home 
the kid ; and the fame evening I took the (kin oflf, and 
cut it out as well as I could, and having a pot for that 
purpofe, I boiled or Hewed fome of the flcfh, atid made, 
fome very good broth ; after I had begun to eat fome, I 
gave fome to my man, who feemed very glad of it, and 
"Eked it very well ; but that which was ftrangefl to him, 
v/as, to fee me eat fait with it. He made a fign to me, 
that the I Jt was not good to eat, and putting a little into 
his. own mouth, he feemed to naufeate it, and would fpit 
and fputter at it, wafhing his mouth with frefh water after 
it ;. on the odier hand, I took fome meat in my mouth 
without fait, and I pretended to fpit and fputter for want 
of fait, as faft as he had done at the fait ; but it would 
not do, he would never care for fait with meat, or in his 
broth ; at leafl, not a great while, and then but a very 
little. 

. Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broch, I 

was^eI<5lvedHe4;eafi him the next day with roafting a 

piece of the kid ; this 1 diar^^MLO^m^ it before the 

• * ^^ 

- r 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 20t 

fire in a ftring,' as I had feen many people do in Eng- 
land, fetting two poles up, one on each fide the fire, 
and one crols on the top, and tying the firing to the crofs 
flick, letting the meat turn continually: this Friday 
admired very much ; but when he came to tafte the flefii, 
he took fo ma^y ways to tell me how well he liked it, 
that I could not but underftand him : and at lafl he told 
me he would never eat man's flefli.any more, which I 
was very glad to hear. 

The next day I fet him to work to beating fome corn* 
out, and fifting it in the manner I ufed to do, as I ob^ 
ferved before ; and he foon underflbod h«w to do it as 
well as J, efpecially after he had feen what the meaning 
of it was, and that it was to make bread of ; for after 
that I let him fee me make my bread, and bake it top ; 
and in a little time Friday was ^ble to do all the work 
for me, as well as I could do it myfelf. 

I bej^an now to ccmfider, that having; two moutlis to 
feecl inJlead of one, I muft provide more ground for rhy 
harvefl, an4 plant a larger quantity of corn^ than I ufed 
to do ; fo I marked out a larger piece of land, and began 
the fence in the feme manner as before, in which Friday- 
hot only worked very willinglv, and very hard, but did 
ft very chearfiilly ; and I. told him what it was for, that 
it' was for* corn to make more bread, becaufe he was now 
with me, and that I might t^iave enough for him and my- . 
felf too : he appeared very fenfible of that part, and let 
me know, that he thought I had much niore labour upon 
me on hU account, than I had for myfelf, and that he 
would work, the haider for me, if I would tell him what 
to do^' 

This was the plieafantejQ: year of all the life I. led in this 
place: Friday began to talk pretty well, and underftand. 
9ie names of almoft every thmg I. had occafion to cali- 
for, and of everyplace I had to lend him to, and talk a 
great deal to me ; fo that, in fliort, I begin now to have 
fcme ufe for my tongue again, which indeed I.had very 
little occafion for before;, that is to fay, about fpeech : 
befides^he pleafure of talking to him, I had a fingular 
latisfac^ion in the fellow himfelf ; his fimple unfeigned 
honefty appeared to me more and more every day, and I 
began really to love the creature j and on his fide, I 



202 -ADVENTURES OF 

believe he loved me more than it was poflible for him 
ever to love any tiling before. 

I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering incli- 
nation to his own country again ; and having learned hint 
Englifh fo well, that he could anfwer me almoU any quef- 
tion ; I a&ed him, whether the nation that he belonged 
to never conquered in battle. At which he fmiled, and 
faid. Yes, yes, we always fight the better ; that is, he 
meant, always get the better in iight, and. fo we began, 
the following £fcourfe. You always fight the better 1 
faid I ; How come you to be taken prifoner then, Friday ? 

Friday. My nation beat much for all that. / 

. Mafter. How beat; if your nation beat them, how 
came you to be taken? 

'Friday. They more than my nation in the place where 
me was; they take, one, two, three, and me. My nation 
over-beat them in yonder place, where me no was ; 
there my nation take one, two, great thoufand. 

Mafter^ But why did not your fide recover you from 
the hands of your enemies then; 

Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and make 
go in the canoe; my nation have no canoe that time. 

Mafter. Well, Friday, and what does your nation do 
with the men they take ? Do they carry them away, and 
eat them as thefe did? 

Friday. Yes my nation eat mens too, eat all up, 

Mafter. Where do they carry them ? ' 

Friday. Go to other place where they think. 

Mafter. Do they come hither ? 

Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other place^ 

Mafter. Have you been here with them? 

Friday. Yes, I been here [Points to the N. W. fide 
of the ifland, which, it feems, was their fide]. 

By this I underftood, that my man Friday had formerly 
been among the favages, who ufed to come on ftxore on th<N 
farther part of the ifland, on the faid men-eating occafions 
that he was now brought for ; and fome time after, when 
i took the courage to carry him to that fide, being th^ 
fame I formerly mentioned, he perfe^ly knew the place, 
and told me, he was there once wlien they eat up twenty 
men, two women, and one child. He could jiot teU twenty 
in Engliih, but he numbered them by • laying fo many 
^onts in a row, and pointuvg to me xq x^U. them. over. 1 



[; 



ROfilNSON CRUSOE. 403 

I have told this paiTage, becaufe it introduces what fol- 
lows ; that after I had 1^ this difcourfe with him» I aiked 
hiiti* how, far it was from our ifland to the fhore> and 
whether the canoes were not often loft : He told me there 
was no danger, no canoes ever loft ; but that after a little, 
way out to fea> there was a current^ and a wind always 
one way in the morning, the odier in the afternoon. 

This I underftand to be no more than the fets of the 
tide^ as going out, or coming in 1 but I afterwards un- 
derftood it was occafioned by the great draught and re- 
flux of the mighty river Oroonoque ; in the mouth of 

"! which river, as I thought afterwards, our ifland lay ; 

[ and that this land, which I perceived to the W. and 

I N. W. was the great ifland Trinidad, on the north 

I point of the mouth of the river : I aiked Friday a thou- 

! tend queftions about the country, the inhabitants, the 

fea, the ooaft, and vvhat nations were near; he told 
me all he knew, with - the greateft oppcnnefs immagin- 
able ; I aiked hiih the names of the feveral nations ofhi» 

f . fort of people, but could get no othe» name than Caribs ; 
from whence I eafily underftood, that thefc were the 
Caribees, which our maps place on that part of Ame- 
rica which reaches from the mouth of the river Oroonp- 
que to Guiana, and onwards to St. Martha : he told me, 
that up a great way beyond the moon, that was, beyond 

» the fetting of the moon, which muft be W. from their 

country, there dwelt white bearded men, like me, and 
pointed to my great whiikers, which I mentioned before ;. 
and that they had killed tnuch mans, that was his word t 
by which I underftood he meant the Spaniards, whofe 
cruelties in America bad been fpread over the whole 

• countries, and were remembered by all the. nations from, 

father to Ton. 

I enquired if he could tell me how I nvight come from 
this ifland, and get among thofc white men ^ he tokl me, 
V*es, ^.-s, I might go in two canoe ; I could not under- 
ftand what he meant by two canoe ; till at Jail, with 
jj^reat difficulty,^ I found. he meant, that it it^ufl be in a 
farge great boat ^s big as two canoce • 
/ ; This part of Friday's difcourfe began to rcllfli witk 
xiic very v/ell ; and ftom. this time I cntt'rtaincd ibmc 
Jjopes, that one time'or otter I might firwl an oppbrtu-** 

16 oity 



20+ ADVENTURES OF 

nity to mak« my efcape from this pkce, and that this 
poer favage might be a means to help me to db it. 

During the long time that Friday had now been with 
me, and that he began to fpeak to me, and underftarid 
me, I was not wanting to lay a foundation of religious 
knowledge in his mind ^barticularly, I afked him one 
tinie> who made him ? The poor creature did not un-' 
derftand me at all, but thought I had afked who was his 
father : but I took it by another handle, and alked him' 
who made the fca, the ground he ^walked on, and the 
hills and woods? He told me, it was one old Eenamuckee 
that lived beyond all : he could defcribe nothing of this 
great perfpn, but that hewasveiy old; much older, he. 
laid, than the fea or the land, than the moon or the 
ftars : I afked him then, if this old perfon liad made alt 
things why did not all things worfliip him ? He looked 
very grave, and with a perfe<5l look of innotence faid, 
All things faid O to him : I afked him, if the people who 
die in his country, went away any -where : he faid, yes, 
they all went to Eenamuckee : then I afked him, Whe- 
ther thofe they eat up went thither too ? He faid. Yes. 

Frbmthefe things 1 began to inflrufthim in the know- 
ledge of the true God. I told him, that the great maker 
of all things lived there, pointing up towards heaven : 
that he governs the world by the fame power and pro- 
vidence by which he made it : that he was omnipotent, 
could do every thingfor us ; give every thing to us, take 
every thing froni us ; and thus, by degrees, I opened his 
eyes : he liftened.with gr t attention, and received 
with pleafure the notion of j efus CHrift being fent to re- 
deem us, and of the manner of making our prayers to 
God, and his being able to hear us, even into heaven : 
as told me one day, that if our God could hear us up . 
beyond the fun, he mufl needs be a greater God than 
their Benamuckee, who lived but a littlejwaypfF, and yet 
could not hear, till they wentup totKe great momftiins, 
where he dwelt, to fpeak to hfm? He faid. No, they never 
went that were young men : none went thither but the 
old men ; whomhecaBedtheii Oowookakee, that is, as T 
mide him explain it to me, their religious, or clergy ;. 
and that they went to fay O (fp he called faying prayers) 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. acij 

suid then came back, and told them what Benamuckee 
faid : by this I obferved, that there is prieftcraft even 
amongft the moft blinded ignorant Pagans in the world ; 
and the policy o^ making a fecret religion, in order to 
preferve the veneration of the people to the clergy, is 
not only to be found in the Romah, but perhaps among 
all religions in the world, even among the moft bruti(h 
and barbarous favages. 

I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday ; 
and told him, that the pretence of their old men going 
up to the mbuntains to fay O to their god Benamuckee, 
was a cheat ; and their bringing word from thence what 
he faid, was much more fo ; that if they met with any 
anfwer, or fpoke with any one there, it muft be with an 
evil fpirit : and then I entered into a long difcoui*fe with 
him about the devil, the original of him, his rebellion 
againft God, his enmity to man, the reafon of it, his 
fctting himfelf up in the dark parts of the world to be 
worfhipped inftead of God, and as God, and the many 
ftratagems he made ufe of, to delude mankind to their 
ruin ; how he had a fecret accefs to our paflions, and to 
our affections, to adapt his fnares fotoour inclinations, 
as to caufe us even to be our own tempters, and to run 
upon our own defti-u<^ion by bur own choice. 

Ifound it was not fo eafy to imprint right notions in 
his mind about the devil, as it was about the being of a 
God : nature a/lifted ail my arguments to evidence to 
him even the necellity of a great firft caufe, and over- 
ruling governing power, a fecret directing Providence, 
and of the equity and juftice of paying homage to him 
that made us, and the like : but there appeared nothing 
of all this in the notion of an evil fpirit, of his original,^ . 
his being, his nature, and above all, of his inclination to 
do evil, and to draw us in to do fo too : and the poor 
creature puzzled me once in fuch a manner, by a qnef- 
tion merely natural and innocent, that I fcarce knew 
^what to fay to him. I. had been talking a great deal to. 
hinvof the power of God, his. omnipotence, his dread- 
ful averfion .to fin, his being a confuming fire to the 
workers of iniquity; how, as he had made lis all/ liQ 
coujd deftroy us, and ^11 the world, in a moment ; and 
be liftened with great ferioufne£ fo me all the while. 



\ 



106 ADVENTURES OF 

After this, I had been telling him how the devil wa« 
God's enemy in the hearts ofmen, and ufed all his ma-, 
lic6 and fkill to defeat the good defigns of Providence, 
and to ruin the kingdom of Chrift in the world, and the 
like : Well, fays Friday, but you fay, God is fo flrong, 
fo great, is he not madi ftrong, much might, as the de- 
vil ? Yes, yes, faid I, Friday, God is Wronger than the 
devil, God is above the devil, and therefore we pray to 
God to tread him under our feet, andenkble us to refift 
his temptations, and quench his fiery danfs. But, fays he 
again, if God much ftrong, much might, as the devil, 
why God not kill the devil, (o make him no more wicked ? 
I was ftrangely furprifed at his queftion, and after all, 
though I was now an old man, yet 1 was but a yot!ng 
dodor, and ill enough qualified for a cafuift, or a folver 
of diiEculties : and, at firft, I could net tell what to fay ; 
fo I pretended not to hear him, and afked him what he 
faid : but he was too earneil for an anfwer to forget his 
queftion ; fo that he repeated it in the very fame broken 
words, as above. But this time I had recovered myfelfa 
little, and I faid, God will at laft punifli him feverely, Jie 
is referved for the judgment, and is to be caft into the 
bottomlefs pit, to dwell witn everlafting fire : this did 
not Iktisfy _ Friday j but he returns upon me repeating my 
words, Referve at laft, me no underftand : but wliy not 
kill the devil now, not kill great ago ? You may as well 
a(k me, faid I, why God does not kill you and me, whea 
we do wicked things here that offend him : we are pre- 
ferved to repent and be pardoned. He mufes a while at 
tills ; Well, well, fays he, mighty aiFe6lionately, that 
well, fo you, I, devil, all wicked, aH preferve, repent,. 
God pardon all : here I was run down again by him to 
the laft degree, and it was a^eftimony to me, how the 
mere notions of nature, though they will guide reafoiv 
able creatures to the knowledge of a God, and of a wor- 
ship or homage due to the fuprcme being of Giod, as the 
confequcnce of our luture ; yet nothing but divine re- 
velation can form the knowled<^e of Jefus thrift, and of, 
a redemption purchafed for us : ofa mediator; of a new 
covenant ; and of an interceflbr at the footftool of God's 
throne, I (ay nothing but a revelatton from heaven can 
/ from thefe m the foul ^ and tliat therefore the Gofpel of* 

out 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. toj 

our Lord and Saviour Jefus Chrift, I mean the word of 
God, and the fpirit of God, promifed for the guide and 
fandifier of his people, are the abfolutely necefiary in- 
iiruAors of the fouls of men in the faving knowledge of 

' God, and the means of falvatlon. 
. I therefore diverted the prefent difcourfe between me 
and my man, rifing up haftily, as upon fome fudden oc- 
Cafion of going out^ then fending him for fomething a 
great Wy off, I ferioufly prayed to God, that he would 
^able me to inftru£i favingly this poorfavage, affifting ' 
by his Spirit the heart of the poor ignorant creature to 
receive the light of the knowledge of God in Chrift, re- 
conciling him to himfelf, and would guide me (to foeak 
fo to him from the word of God, as his confcience 
might be conceived, his eyes opened, and his foul faved: 
when he came again to me, I entered into a long dif- 
courfe with him upon the fubjefl of the redemption of 
man by the Saviour of the world, and of the doArine of 
the Gofpel preached from heaven, viz, of the repent- 
ance towards God, and faith in our bleffed Lord Jefus : 
I then explained to him, as well as I coufd, why our 
bleffed Redeemer took not on him the nature of angels, 
but the feed of Abraham, an3 h6w for that reafon the 
fallen angels had no fhare in the redemption ; that he 
came only to the loft (Keep of the houfe of Ifrael, and 
the like. 

I had, God knows, more fincerity than knowledge, ia. 
all the methods I took for this poor creature'% inftrumon ; 
and muft acknowledge, what I believe all that ad upon 
the fame principle will find, that in laying things open 
to him, I really informed and inftruded myfelf, in many 
things that either I did not know, or had not fully con- 
fidered before ; but which occurred naturally to my mind, 
ypon tny fearphing into them, for the information of this 

' poor favage ; and I had more afFedlion in my enquiry 
after things upon this occafion, than ever I felt before ; 
fo that whether tliis poor wild wretch was the better for 
me or no, I ha^ great reafon to be thankful, that ever 
he came to me : my grief fat lighter upon me, my ha- 
bitation grew comfortable to me beyond mcafure ; and 
when I receded, that in this folitary life which I had 
been confined to, I had not only been moved myfelf to 



jlog^ ADVENTURES OF 

look up to, heaven, and to feek to the hand that brought 
me thither, but was now to be made an inftrument, un- 
der Providence, to fave the life, and, for aught I kno^-, 
the foul, of a poor favage, and brin^i; him to the true 
knowledge of religion, and of the Chriftian do6lrine, 
that he might know Chrift Jefus, to know whom is life 
eternal ; I fay, when I refieded upon all things, a 
fecret joy ran through every part of my foul, and I fre* 
quently rejoiced, that ever I was brought- to this place, 
which 1 had often thought the moft dreadful of all af* 
fliftions that could poffibly have befallen me. 

Iii> this thankful frame I continued all the remainder 
ofmy ttme, and the converlktion which employed the 
hours between Friday and me was fiicB, as made the 
three years which we lived there together perfeftly and 
completely happy, if anyfuch thing as complete happi- 
nefs can be found in a fublunary ftate : the favage waig 
now a good Chriftian, a much better than I ; though I 
have reafon to hope, and blefs God for it, that we were 
equally penitent, and comforted reftored penitents : we 
had here the Word of God to read, and no farther off 
from his Spirit to inftru ft, t]iat if we had beenin England, 

I always applied myfelf to reading the fcripture, and 
to let him know, as well as I could, the meaning of what 
I read ; and he again, by his ferious enquiries and quef- 
tions, made me, as I faid before, a much better fcholar in. 
the fcripture knowledge, than I fliould ever have been 
by my own mere private reading : another thing I can- 
not refrain. from obferving here alfo from experience, in 
this retired part of mylif(g ;' viz. how infinite and inex- 
preflible a bleiEng it is, that the knowledge of God, and- 
of thedoftrine of falvation by Chrift Jefus, is fo plainly' 
laid down in the Word of God,^o eafy to be received and 
underftood, that as the bare reading the fcripture made 
me capable of underftanding enough of my duty to carry 
me direAly on to the great work of fincere repentance. 
"for mjtfins, and laying hold of a Saviour for life and* 
felvatiorf, to a ftnted reformation in pra<5lice, and obe-« 
dience to air God's commands, and this without any- 
teacher or mftruiflor (I mean, human) fo the plain in- 
ftru<ftion fufficiently ferved tothe enlightening this favage 
creature^ and bririgihg him to be fuch a Chriftian, "as I 
Aayeknownfcw equal to hitrv \iv m^ \\l^* K^i. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. &09 

As to the difputes, wranglings, ftrife, and contentign, 
which have happened in the woiTd about religion, whether 
niceties in do&rines, or fchemes 6f church government, 
they were all perfe^ly ufelefs to us, a», for aught 1 can 
yet fee, they have been to all the reft in the world ; we 
had the fure guide to heaven, viz. the Word of God; 
and we had, blefTed be God, comfortable views of the 
SjHrit of God, teaching and inftnifling us by his Word, 
leading us into all truth, and making us both willing and 
obedient to the inftruftion of his Word; and I cannot fe^ 
the leaft ufe that the greateft knowledge of the difputed 
points in religion, which have made luch confufions in 
the world, would have been to us, if we could have ob- 
tained it; but I mull go on with the hillorical part of ^ 
things, and take every part in its order. 
• After Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, 
and that he could underftand almoft all I faid^o him, 
and fpeak iBuently, though in broken Englifli, to me ; I 
acquainted him with my own ftory, or at leaft fo nracjl 
of It as related to my coming into the place, how I ha^ 
lived there, and how long; I let him into the myftery^ 
^or fuch it was to him) of gunpowder and bullets, and 
taught him how to fhoot ; I gave him a knife, which he 
w^s wonderfully delighted with, and I made h^t^ belt 
with a frog hanging to it, fuch as in England we wear 
hangers in; and in the frog, inftead of an hanger j I 
gave him an hatchet, which was not only as good i 
weapon in fome cafes, but much more ufeful upon many 
(Jccaflons. 

I defcribed to him the countries of Europe, and parti- 
cularly England,^ which I came from ; how we lived, 
how we worfhipped God, how we behaved to one aii* 
other, ai\d how we traded in (hips to all the p^rts of fhd 
world ; I gave him an account of the wreck which I had 
been on board of, and fliewed him, as near as I could, 
the place where (he lay ; but fhe was all beaten in pieces 
long before, and quite gone. 

I ihewed him the ruins of our boat, which we ItJft when 
we efcaped, and which T could not ftir with my Whole 
ftrength then, but was now fallen almoft all to pieces j 
upon feeing this boat, Friday fipod mufing a great whilei 
and faid nothing ; I a&ed him what it Was he liadied 



210 ADVENTURES 'OF 

upon ? at lad, fays he. Me fee fuch boat like come to 
place at my nation. v \ 

I did not underftand him a good while ; but at lafl^, 
when I had examined further into it, \ underftood by 
him, that a boat, fuch aS that had been, came on fhore 
upon the country where he lived ; that is, as he explained 
it, was driven thither by llrefs of weather : I prefently 
imagined, that folne European fhip muft have been caft 
away upon their coaft, and the boat might get loofe, and 
drive afhore ; but was fo dull, that I never once thought 
of men making efcape from a wreck thither, much lefs 
whence they might come ; fo I only enquired after a de- 
. fcriptionofiheDoat. 

Friday defaibed the boat to me well enough ; but 
brought me better to underftand him, when he added, 
^th fome warmth, We fave tlie white njans from drown : 
Then I prefently aiked him, if there were any white mans, 
as he cailed them, in the boat : Yes, he faid, the boat full 
of white itians : I afked him, how many ? he told upon 
his fingers feventcen : I afked him then, what became of 
them ? he told me. They Kve, they dwell at my nation. 

This put new thoughts into ray head again ; for I 
prefently imagined,* that thefe might be the men belong- 
ing to the (hip that was caft away in" fight of my ifland*. 
as I now call it ; and who, after the (hip was ftrock oa- 
the rock, and they faw her inevitably loft, had laved 
themfelves in their boat, and were landed upon that 
wild fhore among the favages. 

Upon this I enquired of him more critically, what was 
become of them ; he affured me they lived ftill there, 
that they had been there about four years, that the favages 
let them alone, and gave them viduals to live : I a(ked 
him, how it came to pafs they did not kill them, and 
eat them ? He faid. No, they make brother with them : 
that is, as I ooderftoo^ him, a truce : and then he add- 
pd. They eat no mans but when make the war fight : 
that is to fay, they never eat any men, but fuch as come 
to fight with them, and are taken in battle. 

It was after this, fome cpijliderable time, that being 
on the top of the hill, at the eaft fide of the iiland, 
from whence, as I have faid, I had in a clear day dlfco- 
vcred the main or continent of America y Friday, the wea- 



ROBINSON CRUSO|:. 'in 

ther being very ferene, looks very earnellly towards the 
main land, and in a kind of furprize falls a jumping and 
dancing, and calls out to me, for I was at fome diftance 
from him ; I afked him what was the jniatter !^ O joy I 
fays he, O glad! there fee my country, there my nation! 

I obferved an extraordinary fenft of pleafure appeared 
in his face, and his eyes fparkled, ai;id his countenance 
difcovered a ftrange eagernefs, as if he had a mind to 
be in his own country again; and this obfervation of 
mine put. a great mamr thoughts into me, which made 
me at firil not fo eafy about my new man Friday, as 
I was before j and I made no doubt, but that if Friday 
could get back ta his own nation again, he would not 
only forget all his religion, but all his obligations^ to 
me; and would be forward enough to give his country- 
men an account of me, and come back, perhaps with 
an hundred or two of them, and make a feaft upon me, 
at which he might be as merry as he ufed to be with thofe 
of his enemies, when they were taken in war. 

But I wronged the poor honeft creature very much, 
for which I was veryforry afterwards: however, as my 
jcaloufy increafed, and held me fome weeks, t was a 
little more circumfpf 61, and not fb familiar and kind to 
him as before ; in which I was certainly in the wrong 
too, the honefl grateftil creature having no thought 
about it, but what confifted of the beft principles, both 
as a religious Chriftian, and as a grateful friend, as ap- 
peared afterwards to my full fatisf^ion. 
. Whilft my jealoufy of him lafted, you may be furc I was 
every day pumping him to <ee if he would difcover any 
of the new thoughts, which I fufpeded were in Jiim ; but 
I found every thing he faid was fo honeft, and fo innocent, 
that I could find nothing to nouriih my fufpicion : and, 
in fpite of all my uneafmefs, he made me at lad entirely 
his own again ; nor did he in the leafl perceive, that I was 
uneafy ; ^nd therefore I could not fufpeft him of deceit. 

One day, walking up the fame hill, but the wea- 
ther being hazy at fea, fo that we could not fee the 
continent, I called to him, and faid, Friday, do not 
you wifh yourfelf in your own country, your own na- 
tion ? Yes, he faid, I be much O glad to be at my own 
nation. What would you do there ? faid I : would yoa 

tU3C«L 



ti% ADVENTURES OF 

turn wild again, eat mens flefli again, and be a favage 
as you wprc before ? * He looked full of^ concern, and, 
fluking his head, faid. No, no, Friday tell them to live 
good, tell them to pray God, tell them to eat corn-bread, 
cattlc-fleih, milk, no eat man dgain.' Why then, faid I to 
him, they will kill you ; he looked grave at that, and then 
faid. No, they no kill me, they willing love learn ; he 
meant by this, they would'be willing to learn ; he added, 
they learned much of the bearded mens that came in the 
boat ; then I aiked him, if he would go back to them ? 
He fmiled at that, and told me he coUld not fwim fa far ; 
I told him I would make a canoe for him ; he told me 
he would go, if I would go with him. I go! faid I, 
why they will eat me if I come there ; No, no, fays he, 
me make them no eat you, me make they much love you ; 
he meant he would tell them how I had killed his ene- 
mies and faved his life,* and fo he would makej them 
love me ; then he told me as well as he could, how kind 
they were to feventeen white men,- or bearded men, as^ 
he called them, who came on fhore in diftrefs. 
' From this time, I confefs, I had a mind to venture 
over, and fee if I could poffibly join with thefe bearded 
men, who, I made no doubt, were Spaniards or Portu- 
guefe 3 not doubting but^ if I could, We might findfome 
method to efcape from thence, being upon the conti- 
nent, and a good company together, better than I could 
from an ifland forty miles ofFthe jhore, and alone with- 
out help; fo, after fome days, I took Friday to work 
again, byway of difcourfe; and told him, I would give 
him a boat to go Jback to his own nation; and accord- 
ingly I carried him to my frigate, which lay on the other 
fide of the ifland ; and having cleared it of water (for I 
always kept it fimk in the water) I brought it out, ihewed 
it him, and we both went into it. . ' 

^ • I found he was a moft dextrous -fellow at managing 
it, would make it go almofl as fwift and faft again as T 
could ; fo when he was in, I faid to him. Well, tiow 
Friday, fhall we go to ybur nation ? He looked very 
dull at my faying fo, which, it feems, was becaufe he 
thought the boat too fmall to go fo far ; I told him then 
I had a bigger; fo the next day, I went to the place 
where the firft boat lay which I had made, but which I 



HOBINSON C R'U S O E. 213 

I could not get into the water; he faid that was big 
enough; but then, as I had taken no care of it, and it 
had lain two or three and twenty years there, the fun 
had fplit and dryed it, that it was in a manner rotten* 
Friday tbld me, fiich a boat would do ve;-y well, and 
woula carry * much enough vittle, drink, bread,' that 
was his way of talking. 

Upon the whole, 1 was by this time fo fixed upon my 
defign of going over with him to the continent, that I 
told him we would go and make one as big as that, and 
he fhould go home in it. He anfwered not one wordf 
but looked very grave and fad. I aflted him what was 
the matter witii him. He afked me again, thus. Why you 
angry mad with Friday? what me done? I ajked him 
what he meant; I told him I was not angry with him at 
all; No angry! no angry! faysJie, repeating the words 
feveral times. Why fend Friday home away to my na- 
tion? Why, faid I, Friday, did you not fay you wifhed 
you were there ? Yes, yes, fays he, wilh be bpth there, no 
wifh- Friday there, no matter there- In a word, he 
would not think of going there without me. I go there, 
Friday! faid I, wKat Ihould I do there ? He turned very 
quick upon me at this ; You do great deal much good> 
fays he, you teach wild mans be good, fober, tame mans; 
you tell them know God, pray God, and live new life* 
Alas, Friday, faid I, thou knoweft not what thou fayeft ; 
I am but an ignorant man myfelf. Yes, yes, fays he> 
you teechee me good, you teeche them good. No, no> 
Friday, faid I, you (hall go without me; leave me here 
to live by myfelf, as I did before. He looked confufed 
again at that word, and running to one of the hatchets 
which he ufed to wear, he takes it up haftily, and gives 
it me- What muft I do with this ? faid I to him : you 
Jake kill Friday, fays he. What muft I kill you for ? 
faid I again. He returns very quick. What you fend 
f riday away for ? Take kill Friday, no fend Friday 
away. This he fpoke fo earneftly, that I faw tears 
ftand in his eyes. In a word, I fo plainly difcovered 
.the utmoft affeJUon in him to me, and a firm refolu- 
tion in him,, that I told him then, and often after^ that 
i A^ould never fend him away from xne, if he was willing 
to Hay with me%. 

UtJCKV 



214 ADVENTURES pF 

Upon the whole, as I found by all his diicourfe, a 
fettled affeftion to me, and that nothing fhould part 
him from me, fo I found all the foundation of his de- 
fire to go to his own country, was laid inTus ardent af- 
fection to the people, and his hopes of my doing them, 
good ; a thing, which as I had no notion of myfelf, fo 
I had not the' leaft thought, or intention, or defire of un- 
dertaking it: but ftill I found a ftrong inclination to my 
attempting an efcape, as above, founded on the fuppo/i- 
tion gathered from the former difcourfe ; viz. that there 
were feventeen bearded men there ; and therefore, with- 
©fit any defay, I ^ent to work with Friday, to find out 
a great tree proper to fell, and make a large periagua • 
or canoe, to undertake the voyage : there were trees 
enough in the ifland to have built a little fleet, not of 
periaguas and canoes only, but even of good large vcf- 
fels ; but the main thing I looked at, was to get one fo 
near the water, that we might launch it vihtn it was 
made,' to avoid the miftake I continitted at firft. 

At laft, Friday pitched upon a tree ; for I found he 
knew much better than I, what kind of wood was £tteft 
for it; nor can I tell to this day, what wood to call the 
tree we cut down, except that it was very like the trec?^ 
we call fuftick, or between that and the Nicaragua 
wood, for it was jnuch of the fame colour and fmell : 
Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity of this 
tree out, to make it into a boat : but I "Shewed him how 
rather to cut it out with tools, which after I fhewed him 
how to ufe, he did very handily, and^M about a month's 
hard labour we finiihed it, and made it very hand- 
fome, efpecially when with our axes, which I fhewed 
him how to handle, we cut and hewed the outfide into 
the true (hapeof a boat; after this, however, it coft us 
near a fortnight's time to get her along, as it were inch 
by inch, upon great rollers into the water : but when 
ihe was in,' fliC would have carried twenty men ' with 
great eafe. 

When fhe was in the water, and though (he was fo big, 
it amazed me to fee with what dexterity and how fwSt 
my man Friday could manage her, turn h"*-, and pad- 
dle her along; fo I atked him if he would, and if we 
might ventars over in her ; Yes, he faid^he venture over 



ROBINSONCRUSOE. 21 j 

ix\ her very well, though great blow wind: however, I had 
a farther defign that he knew pothing of, and that was 
to make a mafl and fidl, and to fit her with an anchor 
and cable : as to a mail, that was eaf)^ enough to get ; 
fo I pitched upon a ftrait young cedar- tree, which I 
found near the place, and which there was a ^reat plenty 
of in the iiland: and I fet Friday to \vo^ to cut it 
down, and gave him directions how to -fhape and orde^ 
it : but as to the fail, that was my particular care ; 
I knew I had old (ails, or rather pieces of old fails 
enough ; but as I had them now twenty-fix years by 
me, and had not been very careful to preferve them, 
not imagining that I fliould ever have this kind of ufe 
for them, I Sid not doubt but they were all rotten ; and 
indeed moft of them wer6 fo; however, I found two 
pieces which appeared pretty good', and with thefe I 
went to work, and with a great deal of pains, and auk- 
ward tedious {Etching (you may be fure) for want of 
needles, I at length made a three-cornered ugly thine, 
like what we call in England a fhoulder of mutton fail, 
to go with a boom at bottom, and a little ftiort fprit at 
the top, fuch as ufually our (hips long-boats fail with, and 
fuch as I beft know how to manage ; becaufe it was fuch 
a one as I ufbd in the boat in which I made my efcape 
from Barbary, as related in the firtt part of my ftory. 

r was near two months performing this laft work ; 
yiz. rigging and fitting my maft and iails ; for I finifhed 
them very complete, making a fmall ftay; and a fail or 
forefail to it, to affiil, if we ihould turn to windward ; 
and, which was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the 
item of her, to fl^eer with ; and though I was but a bung- 
ling, fiiipwright, yet as 1 knew the ufefulnefs, and even 
ncccfiity of fuch a thing, I applied myfelf with fo much 
pains to do it, that at lait I brought it to paf^, tho', 
confidering the many dull contrivances I had for it that 
failed, I think it coil me almofl as much labour as 
making the boat. 

After all this was done, I had my man Frfday to 
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my boat ; 
for tho' he knew very well how to paddle the canoe, he 
knew nothing what belonged to a fail^ and a rudder, 
and was the moft amazed when he faw me work the 



ji6 ADVENTURES OF 

boat to-and-again in the fea by the rudder, and how the 
fail gybed, and filled this way or that way, as the courfe 
we failed .changed; I fay, when he {aw this, he Hood 
like one aftonilhed andamazedi/howjever, with a little 
ufe, I made all thefe things familiar to him, and he be- 
came an expert failor, exp^pt that as to the conipafs, I 
Gould make him underftand very little of that : on the f 
other jund, as there was very little cloudy weather, and 
feldom or never any fogs in thofe .parts, there was the 
lefs occafion for a compafs, feeing the flars were always 
to be feen by night, and the fhore by day, except in 
the rainy feafons ; and then nobocfy cared to flir abroad, 
cither by land or fea. 

I was now entered on the feven and twentieth year of 
my captivity in this place; though the three lall years 
diat I had this creature with me, ought rather ta be 
left out of the account,, my habitation being quite of 
another kind than in all the reft of my time- J kept 
tjie anniverfary of my landing here with the fame thank- 
fiilnefs to God for his mercies as at firft ; and if I. had fuch 
caufe of acknowledgment at firft, I had mfich more (o 
now, having fuch additional tgftimonies of the care of 
Providence over me, and the great hopes I. had of being 
effedually and fpeedily delivered ;^ for I had an invincible 
imprefTion upon my thoughts, that my deliverance^was 
at hand, and that I fhould not be another year in this 
place : however, I went on with my hufbandry, digging, 
planting, fencing, as ufual; I gathered and cured my 
grapes, and did every neceilkry thing, as before. 

The rainy feafon was in the mean time upon me, 
when I kept more within doors than at other times; 
fp I had flowed our new vefTel as fecure^^s we could, 
bringing her up into the creek, where, as I faid in 
^le 'beginnirig, I landed my rafts from the fhip; and 
haling her up to the fhorc, at high- water maik> I 
made my man Friday dig a little dock, jufl big enough 
for her to float in; and then when the tide was out, 
we made a flrong dam acrofs the end of it, to keep 
the water out; and fo fhe lay dry, as to the tide, 
from the fea; and to keep the^rain ofF, we laid a great 
many boughs of trees fo thick, that fhe was as well 

thatched 



ROBINSON CRtJSOR 417 
l^atched as an houfe ; and thus wt waited for the months 
of November and Deceaiber, in which I deftgned to 
make my adventure. 

When the fettled feafim began to <3ome in, as the 
thought of my defign returned with the fair weather^ 
f was i^paring daily for the voya^ ; and the firft thin^ 
I did was to lay up a certain quantity of proviiion, being 
tiie ftore for tht voyage ; and intended in a week or a 
fbrtmglvc's ttaK, to open the dock, and htuBck out our 
boat % i was bdy one morning cmon f)iiiething of thi^ 
IcomI, when I called to Friday, tna bid hnn go to the fea^ 
4hoic,andftetf he coridinda turtleortortoife, athing 
wfaidi we geno-atty ffot onoe a week, for die fake of the 
^£g«» » '"^ ^ the flefii. Friday had not been long gone; 
^gSSm he came running bade, and Hew over my outward 
will, or fence, like one that fdt not the ground, or the 
ileps he iet his feet on; and befofe I had time to fpeak 
to Wni he cried out to me, O mafter \ O mafter ! O for- 
TOW ! O badi What's the matter, Fridiay ? faid I ; O yon- ^ 
der there, hy$ he, one, two, three, canoe ! oge, two, 
three ! My this way of fpeaking I concluded there were 
iix : but on enquiry I found there were but three. Well 
j^riday, faid I, do not be frighted ; (b I heartened him up 
as well as t cduld : However, I faw the poor fellow moft 
terribly Icared ; for nothing ran in his head but that they 
were come to look for him, and would cut him in pieces, 
and eat him ; the poor fellow trembled fo, that 1 fcarce 
knew what to do with him : I comforted him as well as 
I could, add told him I was in as much danger as he, 
and that th-iy would 6at.me as w^l as him. Bat, faid I, 
Friday, we tnaft ^efolve to fight them : Can you fight, 
Friday ? Me (hoot, fays he, but there come many great 
number. No matter lor that, faid I again, our guns 
win fright them that we do not kill. So I aficed him. 
Whether^ if 1 refolved to defend him, he would defend 
tne, and ftand by me, and do juflas I bade him ? He faid. 
Me die, when you bid die, mafter ; fo I went and fetched 
a good dram of rvm, and gave him ; fbr I had been £0 
g:ood an hufhandof my rum, that I had a great deal Irft : 
.When he had drank it, I made iTim tfake the two fowl- 
ing pieces which we always carried, and load them with 
large fwan (hot as big as a fmall piftol-bullets ; thepa^ took 

VOL. L R four 



I 



fti8 ADVENTURES OF 

four muftjuets, ^nd loaded them with two flugs, and fi\t 
fmall bullets eacH; 'and ix^ two piitols I loaded with a 
brace of bullets each : I hung my great fword, 93 ufual, 
liaked by my fide, and gave Friday his hatchet. 
. When I hsid thus prepared myfelf, I took my perfpec* 
tive-glaO, and ^nt up to the fide of the hill, to -fee 
what I could difcover ; and 1 found quickly, by mjr 
glafs,'that there were one and twenty favage% tl^ce 
)>rifoner8, and three canoes ; ^nd that .tlttir vtrhole bu«> 
tineis feemed to be the triumphant banqiiet up^n tfieft 
three human bodies ; a- barbarous feafi: indeed, but nor- 
thing more than as I had oMa^ved was^fual'witn them* 

I obferved a]fo, that they were landed, not where they 
had done>vhen Friday made his efcape, but nearer to my 
creek, where the Ihore was low, and ^cre a thick wood 
came clofe.almoft down to the fea : this, with the ab* 
horrence of the idhuman errand Ihefe wretches came 
about, fo filled me with indignation, that I came 
down again to Friday, and told bhn, I was relblved to go' 
down to them, and kill themall ; and afked him if h« 
would (land by me. He was now gotteis over his fright^ 
find his fpirits being a little raifed *with the dram I had 
given him, he was very chearful; and told me, as be* 
fore, he would die when I bid die. 

In this fit of fury, I took firft and divided the arms 
which I had charged, as before, between us : I gave.Fri- 
day one piftol to ftick in his girdle, and three guns upon 
his ihoulder ; and I took one piftol, and the other three, 
myfelf ; and in this jjoft are we marched out j I took a 
imall bottle of rum-in my pocket, and gave Friday a 
large bag with more ponder and bullet ; and as to or- 
ders, I charged him to keep clofe behind me, and not to 
ftir, fhoot, or do any thing till I bid him ; and in the 
mean time, not to fpeak a word : in this poftur^ I fetched 
a compals to my right hand of near a mile, as well to 
get over the creek as to get into the wood ; fo that I' 
might come within fhot of them before I could.be dif^ 
covered, which i had feen by my glafs^^it was eafy to do.^ 

While I was making tliis march, my former thoughts 
returning, Ibegantoabatemyrefblution ; I do not mean, 
• that I entertained any fear of their number ; fo.' as thej? 
wVre naked, unarmed wretche:?! Yiii^eitain I wasfuperior 

• X to 



R O B I N S O N t: R U S O E.^ «i9 

, to them ; nay, though I had been alone : But it occurred 
: to my thoughts, what call, ^at occafion, much Ids, 
•what jiecejf&ty, I was in to go and dip my hands in blood, 
to attack people, who had neither donel>r intended me anjr 
.wrong, who as to me, were innocent, and whofe barba- 
rous cufloms were their own difafter, being in them k 
token indeed of God^s having left them, with the other 
nations of that part of the ^orld, to fuch llupidity an4 
to fuch inhuman coiirfes; but*did not call me to take , 
upon me to be a judge of their anions, much lefs an exes 
cutioner of his juftice ; that whenever he thought fit, he 
would take the caufe into his own hands, and by Aatio- 
«al vengeancie punifh them for national crimes ; but that 
in the mean time, it was none of my bulinefs : That it 
-was true, Friday might juftify it,' becaufe he was a declared 
-enemy, and in a ftate of war with thofe vtfry particular 
people, and it was lawful for him to attack them ; but I 
could not fay the fame with refpe^tome: Thefe things 
'were fo warmly prefled upon my thoughts all the way 
*as I went, that. I refolv^d I would only go place myfett 
^near them, th^t I might obferve their barbarous wafl, 
•and that I would z6!t then asGodfhoulddireft; but that 
^unlefs fomething offered that was more a call to me than • 
yet I knew of, I would not meddle with them. 

With this refolution I entered the wood, and with 
•all poflible warinefs and (ilen'-e (Friday following clofe 
at my heels), I marched till I came to the ikirt of the 
wood, on the fide which was next to them ; only that 
one corner of the wood lay between me and them : 
Here I called foftly to Friday, and Ihewing him a great 
tree, which was juft at the corner of the wood, I bade 
him go to the tree, and bring me word if he could fee 
there plainly what they were doi ng. He did fo, and came 
immediately back to me, and told me they might be plain- 
ly viewed there; that they were all about the fire, eating 
thefiefh of one of their prifoners ; and that another lay 
bound upon the fand, a little from them, whom he fa id 
they would kill next, and which fired the very foul within 
me. He told me, it was not one of their nation, but one of 
the boarded men whom hfe had tbJd>oieof, who came to 
their country in the boat. I was filled with horror at the 
very naming the white-bearded man, and^ ^oin^ta tlsR. 



»«20 ADVENTURES OF 

tree, I ikw plainly, by my ^sSs, a white man, w1h> lay 
itjpon the bei&ch o£ the Tea, with his hand End his feet 
.tusdwith flag5y or things like ruihes ; and that he was 
an European, andliad dothes on* 

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond 
H» aboat fifty vards nearer to them than the place where 
I was, which, oy gcing a littly way about, I law I might 
come at andi(bovered, and that then I ihould be within 
half (hot of them ; fo I with-held my pailion, tho' I was 
indeed enraged to the higheft degree ; and going back 
4bout twenty paces, I got behind fome bn&es» Which 
ikeld all the way till I came to the other tree, and then I 
came to a little rifmg ground, which gave me a full view 
cf^hem, at the diftance of about eighty yixds. 

I had now not a moment to lofe ; for nineteen of the 
dreadful wretches, fat upon the ground all dofe huddled 
together, and had juft ient the other two to butcher the 
poor Chriitian, and bring him perhaps limb by limb, -to 
their fire ; and they were flooped down to untie the band» 
at his feet. I turned to Friday ; Now, Friday, hid I, do 
as I bid thee. Friday faid, he would. Then, Friday, faid I, , 
do exa^y as you fee me do; fail in nothing. So I fet down 
one of the mufquets and the fowling-piece upon the 
ground, and Friday did the like by his ; and with the other 
mufquet I took my aim atl^e favages, bidding him do 
the like. Then afking him if he was ready, he Sid, Ye?* 
Then fire at them, faidl; and the fame moment I ftred alfo. 
Friday took his aim fo much better than I, that on the 
fide that he (hot, he killed two of them, and wounded 
three more ; and on iny fide, 1 killed one, and wounded 
two. TKey were, you may be fure, in a dreadful confter- 
nation ; and all of 'em, who were not hurt, jumped up 
upon their feet immediately, but did not know which way 
to run, or which way to look ; ibr they knew not ftom 
whence their deflrudion came. Friday kept his eyes 
clofe upon me, that as I had bid him, he might obferve 
what I did ; fo as foon as the firft fhot was mafi-, I threw 
down the piece, and took up the fowling-piece, and 
Friday- did the like ; he fees me cock, and prefent ; he 
did the fame again. Are you ready, Friday ? (aid I, Yes, 
feys he. Let fly then, faid I, in the name of God ; and 
wixh that I f red again among the amazed wretches, and 

fo. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. wi 

i^jCd Friday; and as oar pieces were now loaden with 
what I called fwan-fhot> o> (msdl fnftot bullets, we found 
onlf two drop ; but fo many were woundedi that ihejr 
zan about yelling and fcreaming like mad creatures^ all^ 
Uoody and miferably wounded, moft of them; whereof 
diree more fell qaicldy. after, though not quite dead* 

Now, Friday, (aid I, laying down the difchargcd pieces* 
and taking up the mtti<|uet, which was ye( loaden, follow 
me, i^d I; which he did, with a deal of courage ; upon 
H^iich I rufhed out of the wood, and (hewed myfelf, and 
J^riday clofe at my foot : As foon as I perceived they faw 
me, I ihottted as loud as I could^ and bade Friday do io 
too ; -and running as faft as I could, which by the way wa». 
t^ very f^, bemg loaded with arms as I was, I raaaedi- 
redly towards the poorviflim^ who was* as I laid, lying' 
iipon the beach, or ihore» between the place vi^re they 
&t and the fea ; the two butchers, who were juil going t» 
work with him,^ had left him, at the furprife of our &cSt 
fire, and fled in a terrible fright to the iea-iide, and had 
jumped into a canoe, and three more of the reft made the 
ifime way: I turned to Friday, and bade himfiep forwards, 
s^d fire at tl^em ; he ttnderftoo<i me iiq.mediately, and 
running about forty yards to be near them* he (hot at 
^em, as I thought he had killed them aH; for V bur 
Qiem ail fall on an heap into the boat ; thougk I iacw 
fwo of them up again quickly : However, he lolled two 
•f them, and wounded the third, fo that he lay dovm in 
Ae bortom of the boat, as if he had been dead. 

While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out xby 
knife, and cut the flags that bound the poor vidlim; ait<l 
loofing his hands and feet I lifted him up, and afked kim. 
in the Portugnefe tongue, what he was ? lie anfwepeS. 
in Latin, Chriftianus ; but was fo weak and faint, wt 
]^e could (carce ftand, or fpeak ; I took-my bottle ouMf 
my pocket, and ^ve it him, making figns. that he fhoiniS, 
drink, which he did ; and I gave hun a piece of bread,' 
which, he eat^f then I aiked him, what countryman he 
wa^ ? and he (aidf Efpagnofe ; suid, being' a little re- 
covered, let kne know, by all die figns he could poffiUy 
snake, how much he was in debt for Us deliverance ; 
Seignior, iaid I, with as much Snaniih as t could 
xoake up/ we wiU talk afterwards^ W we 9«ft fi(ht 
' K J * nowt 



OM ADVENTURES or ' 

now : If you have anyftrengthjeft, take this piflol an<f 
{word, and iay about you. He took Ihetn very thank- 
fully^ and no fooncr had he the arms in his hands^ but 
as iOhcy had put new vigour rnito him, he flew upon his 
murderers likcafary, and hadcut twa6f them ia pieces 
in aji inflant ; for the truth is> asth6 whole was a furprife* 
to them, fo the poor creatures were fo much frighted with 
the noiie of .our pieces^ that they fell down for mere 
amtiemcnt and fear, and had no more ^wer to attempt 
tlweir own efcape, than their flcfli had to-refift our fh<5t? 
dnd that was the cafe of thofe five that Friday (hot in 
ttie boat; for as three of them fell with the hurt they 
iKceivedy fo the other two fell with the fright. 

I keptmy piece in rfiyjiand ftill, withoutfiring, being 
willing to kecfj my charge ready, becaufe I had given the 
Spaniard my piftol and^fword ; fo 1 called to Friday, and 
bade him run up to the tree from whence we firft fired,' 
and fetch the arms which lay thefe, that had been dif^ 
charged, which hedid with great fwiftnefs ; and then 
giving him my miifquet, F fat down my felf to load all the 
r^ft again, and bade themcometomewhen they wanted r 
While I was loading thefe pieces^ there happetjid a fierce 
etigagement bet\i-een the Spaniard and dne of the favages^ 
who made at him with one of their great wooden fwoijcb, 
thefame weapon that was to have killed him before, if T 
had ilot prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as bold 
aind as brave as could be imjigined, tho* weak, had fought 
this Indian a good while, and had" cut him two- great 
woundis on his head ; but the favage, biding' a flout lufty 
fellow, clofing in with him, had thrown him down 
^b«ing faint) and was wringing my fword out of his 
hand, when die Spaniard, thq' undermoft, wifely quitting 
bis fw'ord, drew the piftol from his girdle, fliot the favage 
throtigh the body, and killed him upon the fpot, before 
I, who was running to help, could come near him. 

Friday, being now left at his liberty, purfuedtlie flying * 
wretches with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet ; 
and with thA he diijpatchcd thofe three, who, as I faid 
before, were wounded at fiift and fellen, and afl the refl 
he couid come up with ; and the Spaniard convjng to 
me for a gun, I gave him, ortc of the fowling pieces, 
with wbiiSi liepiirfue4 two of the -fevages, and wounded "" 
- them 



ROBINSON CRtrSQE. %if 

them both ; but as he was not abk to run, they both 
got from him into the wood, where Friday purfued 
them, and killed one of them; but the other was too 
nimble for him ; and though he was wounded, yet he 
phlriged into the fea, and fwam with all his might off 
to thofe who were left in the canoe, which three in the 
canoe, with x>nc wounded who we "know not whether 
he died or no, were all th«at eiqaped our hands of one 
and twenty. The account of the reil is as follows ; ^ 

3 Killed at our Ihot from the tree. 

a Killed at the next 5hot. ' 

2 Killed by Friday in the boatl 

a Killed by ditto, of thofe at firft wounded. . 
I Killed by diito, in the wood: 

3 Killed by the Spaniard. 

4 Killed, being found dropt here and there of their 
waund«, or killed by Fridity in hh chace of them-' 

4 Efcaped in the boat^ whereoi one wounded, if'n^t 
dead. 



ai In all 



Thofe that were in tfic canoe, worked hard to get out 
of gun-fKot; and tho* Friday made two or three (hots at 
-them, I did not find that he hit any of them : Friday 
would fain have had me talcc one of their canoes, arid 
puriue them ; and indeed I was very anxious about their 
efcape, left carrying the news home to their people, 
they (hould come back, perhaps, with two or three hun- 
dred of their canoes, and devour us by mere multitudes ; 
fo I confented to purfue them by fea ; and running tO 
one of their canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday fol- 
low n>e ; but when I was in the canoe, I was furprifed 
to find another poor creature lie there alive, bound 
hand and foot, as the Spaniard was, for the flaughter, 
and almoft dead with fear, not knowing what the mat- 
ter was ; for he had not been able jto look up over the 
fide of the boat, he was tied fo hard, neck and heels, 
and had been tied fo Ipng, that he had really little life 
in him. 



^ 



424 ADVET^TURES aF 

I immediately cut the twifted flags, or raihes, whicfi 
they had bound him with> and would have help htm ap ; 
bat he could not fland, or ^peak, biH groaned mod pite^p 
Ottdy, believing* it feems ftiU, that ht was only un- 
bound in order to be killed. 

When Friday came t9 him» I bade him fpeak to him* 
and tell him of his deliverance ; and pulling out my -bot* 
ilCf made him give the poor wretch a dram» which, with 
the newa of his being delivered, revived him, and he (at 
up in the boat ; but when Friday came to hear him fpeak, 
and looked in his face, it would have moved any one to 
tears, to have feen ho\v Friday kifled him, embraced him, 
hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about, 
danced, fung,. then cried again, wrung his hands, beat 
"his own face and head, and then fung and jumped about 
again, like a diflra^led creature. I was a good while, 
•before 1 could make him- fpeak to me, or tell me what 
was &e matter, but when he came a little to himfelf, he 
told me, 4hat itwashisfatheir^ 

It was not eafy for me to exprefs how it moved me, to 
lee what extacy and fili^ affe61ion had worked in this 
p(Jor favage, ^t the fight of his father, arid of his being 
delivered ^om death ; nor indeed can I defcobe half the 
extravagancies pf his affeftion after this ; for he went into 
4he boat and ont of the boat « great m^y times : when 
he went into Mm, he would nt down by hipiy open his 
breaiS^, ard hotel hi$ father's head dofe to his bofom, half 
an hour together, to nourifh it; then he took his arms and 
ankles, which were numbed aild ftiif with the binding,, 
and chafed and rubbed them with his bancs ; and I, per- 
ceiving what the cafe was, gave him fome rum out of 
my bottle to rub thon with, which did them a great deal 
of good. 

This aOkm put an end to our purfuit of the canoe 
with the other lavages^ who were now gotten al mod out 
of fight; and it was h^py for us, that we did not; 
for^it blew k> hard within two hours after, and beibre 
.they could be gotten a quarter of their way, and conti- 
nued blowing fo hard all night, and that from the north* 
wefl; wluch was again them, that I could not fuppofe 
.their boat could live, or that they ever reached to ueir 
owncoafl. 
^ But 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. azj 

- But to retorn to Priday;ilie wat fo hafj abouthis fiitlier^ 

*■ that I could not find in my heart to take him olF for ibnie 

' tome : but after I thought he couldleanr^ hina Uuk, I caU- 

ed him to me, and he came. jiimi»iig and laugiuiig^ «attd 

' pleafed to the higheft extreme. Thai I a(kfd him, if he 

tiadgwen )us famer any bread f lieihpokhis head» and 

faid. None: ugly dog eat alt npielT. Soli gave him a cake 

ofbreadont of a little' pouch I carried on porpofe; I dfo 

^ave him a dram for hmifolf, but Jie wookl BOt tafte i^ 

DiK carried it to hi^ father :. I had in my pocket alfotwo 

or three bunches of my raifins, fo I gave him a handfU 

of them for his father. He had no fooner given his fother 

theferaifins^ but I faw him come out ot. the boat and 

t -run away as if he had been bewitched. He ran at foch a \ 

rate (for he was the fwifteft fellow of his feet duu ever I 

fai^) I (ky, he ran at fuch a rate, that he was oatt>f figh^ 

.as it were in a iniUnt ; and tho' I odlod fliiid hallooed 

too after him, it was all one; awa v he went, and in a 

iquarter of an hour I faw hun come back again, tho' not 

fi> fail as he went ; and as he came nearer, I fooad Urn 

pace was Hacker, becax^ h^ had fometlung in his hawL 

When he came up* to me, I found he had beea <|ttH» 

home for an earthen ji^, or pot, to bring his fathsntomir 

firefh water ; and that he had got two more cakes or 

loaves of bread. The bread he gave me, but the water 

he carried to h\% father :. however, as J was very thirftjr* 

too, I took a little fup of it :: this water revivaed his fa^ 

ther more than all the r;nn>or fpirits I had given. hiin;R 

for he was }u4t fainting^with thiirft. 

When his father had drank^ I calle^'him, to^fcnaw if 
there was any water left y he f^d> yes; and I bade him* 
give it to tlw poor Spaniard*, who wa« in as much want: 
of it as his father ; and I fent one of the cdces, that 
Friday brought, to the Spaniard, too, who waSvindeed 
very weak* and wasTepofu>g himfelf upon a green placcv 
, under the, (hade of a tree, and whole limbs were alfo 
very ftiiF, and very much (welled with the rude banda^ 
he had been tiedl with :. when. I faw that upon Friday's 
cpming to him with the wat^ir,, he fet up and dran'c, aad 
took the breadl and began taeat, I went to him, an I gave 
him an handful of raifms ; he looked up in rey f:ic3 with * 
all the tokens, of gratitude and thaiikfolnefs that coaU 



B^ ADVENTURES OF 

appear in any countenance ; but v^s fo weak, notwtth-" 
ftajnding he had fo exerted hknfejf in the fight, that he 
could not ftand up upon his feet ; he tried to do it tvvo^ 
or three tiines, but was really not able, his ankles were 
A) fwelled and fo painful to him ; fo I'bade him fit flil^ 
and caufed Friday to rub his ankles, and bathe them with 
rum, as he had done his father^s. 

I obferved the poor afiedionate creature every two mi- 
nutes, or perhaps, lefs, all the while he was here, turned 
his head about, to fee if his father was in the fame place 
and poihire as he left him fitting ; and at iaft he found he 
ti^snottobeieen} at which he flarted up, and without 
fpeaking a word, flew with that fwiftnefs to him, that 
i^ne coulid fcarce perceive his feet to touch the ground 
as he went : but when he came, he only found he Ijad 
laid himfelf down to eafe his limbs : fo Friday came back 
to me prefently, and I then ipoke to the Spaniard to let 
Friday help him up, if he could, and lead him to the boat^ 
and then be fhould carry him to our dwelling, where I 
•rould take care of him : but Friday, a lufty yming fel-. 
low, took the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and car^- ■- 
ried him away to the boat, and fct him down foftly U|>oa 
^e Giic Of gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in the in« 
£de of it, and then lifted them quite in, and fet him clofe 
to his father, and jH-efentiy ftep^ing Out again, launched 
"^e boat off, and paddled it along the fhore fatter than I 
cou)[d walk, the* the wind blew pretty hard too> fo he 
brought them bothiafe int& ourcreek ; and leaving them 
in the boa$, runs away to fetch tflie other canoe; As he 
pafled ine, I fpoke to him, and aflted him, whither he 
-went ? He told me, G6^ fetch more boat; fo away hfe- ' 
-went, like the wind ; for fure never man or horfe rant 
like him, and he had the other canoe in the creek, almoft 
as foon as Igot to it by land ; fo he Wafted me oVer, and* 
tfien went to help our new guefb out of the boat^ which 
he did ; but they were neither of them able to walk j fa 
that poor Friday knew not what to do. ' 

To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and 
calling to Friday to bid them fit down on the bamk 
while ixc .came to me, 1 foon made a kind of hand- 
b;^rrovy tp lay them on, and Friday and I car/ied them 
Lp l^oth toffithcj u];)Oft it betvVeen us. : but when we g^ 
^ . ' them 



tbem to the outfidc of our wall or fortification, we were 
%t a worfe lofs than before ; for it was impoffible to get 
them over ; and I was refolved not to break it down t 
jb I iet to. work again ; and Friday and I, in about twa 
hours time, made a very handfome tent, covered with 
old fail^, and above that with boughs of trees, being i^ 
the fpace witj^out our outward fence^ and between that 
and the grove of young wood which I had planted: and 
here we made two beds of fuch things as I had ; vi^. ox 
good rice-fb:aw„ with blankets laid upon it to lie on, ancf 
smother to cover them on each bed. 

My ifland was now peopled, and 1 thowght myfelf 

very rich in fubje6b ; and it was a merry refle&on which 

I frequently made, how like a king I looked : Firfl of 

. ^U the whole country was my own mere property ; fo^ 

'that I had an undoubted right of domintoii : 2dly, M3r 

Ciople were perfectly fubje&d ; I was ablolute lord an(| 
wgivet ; they all owed their lives to me, and wer^ 
^ady to lay down their lives, if there had been occafioi^ 
for it^ for me ; It was remarkable too^ I had but thr64' 
fubjefts, and they were of three dtiferent religions, My 
man Friday was a proteilant ; hi$ father a pagan and a 
f:ambal; and the Spaniard was a p»pill : however, t 
Allowed liberty of confcifince throughout my dominions % 
J>^t this by the way, '. 

As foon as I had fecured my two weak relcued prifon-*- 
prs, a^d given them fhelter, and a place to reft thep^ 
^pon, Ihegan to thi|ik of making fome provi£on for themi: 
and the fym thing I did, I ordered Friday to take a yearf 
Jing goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out of my particular 
ftock, to be killed;, then I cut off the hinder quarter^, 
and, choj^ing it into fmail pieces, I let Friday to work^ 
to boiling and ftewing, arid made them a very good difh^ 
lafTure you, of flefh and broth ; having put fome baff 
Jey and riee atfi) into the broth ; and as I cooked i/L 
without doors (for I mad^ no fire within my ihher Wall) 
fc I carried k all -into the new tent ; ^nd having fet |ir 
lable there for them, I fat down and eat my dinner aUo* 
with them ; and, as well as I could,, cheated them and eiv 
couraged them, Friday being my interpreter, efpecially to 
his fa&er,» and indeed to the Spaniard too; for the Spar 
niard fpoke the langiugeof the fey^es jre^ty FfiU^. ; 
K*6 ' ^^SafcsL 



I 



22% ADVENTURES Off/ 

After we had dined, or radief filpped, I ordered Fficfey 
to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch our mafaaetir 
and other fire arms, which for want 6f time we had left 
upon the place of battle ; and the nesct day- I ordered 
him to go and bury the dead bodies of die favages, which 
lay open to the fun, and would prefcntly be ofFenfive ; 
and I alio ordered him to bury the horrid remains of 
the r barbarous feaft, which I knew were pretty much* 
imd which I could not think of doing myfelf; nay, I 
oould not bear to fee them, if I went that way : idl 
which he pnnAually performed, and defaced the very ap- 
pearance of the {adages being dicrc ; fo that when I went 
again, I could fearce know where It was, otherwife than 
Vy the corner of the wood pointing to die place. 
' I dicn be^m to enter into a Utde conti^eifation wi^ 
tKf two new lubjeil^ ; and firft I iet Friday to enquire of 
kis father, what he thou^t of the efcape of the lavages . 
in that canoe, and whether he might expefl a return of 
tk^ with a power too great for us to refill? His firft 
opinion was, that theiavages in the boat nerer could live 
but the fbhn, yiAach, blew that night they went off, but 
Ittttft of necdSty be drowned or Siiyen ibuth to thole 
other fho^es, where they were as fnre to be devoured, as 
they were to be drowned if they were caft away; bat as 
to what fbcy would do if they came ^^ife on (bore, hm 
fiud; he knew not ; but it was his opinion, that they were 
lb dreadfully frighted widithe m^mner of being attacked^ 
the noife, and the fire, that he believed they would telt 
their people they were all kiMed by thunder and lights 
iiing, and not by the hand of man ; and that the twa 
¥rtiich appeartd (viz. Friday and I) were two heavenly -* 
il^irits or furies come dowatodeftroy them,, and notmeit 
wkh wcapoitt. This, he latd, he knew^ becaufe he heard 
^lem all cry out fo in dieir language te« one another $ 
'-ftr it was impoflible'to them to conceive that a man 
Ikould dart fixe, and fpe^k thunder, and kill at a dif-^ 
tance, without Hfting up the hand; as was done nowv 
And this oldfav^gewisin the right, for, as I underftood 
•fincc by other hands, the lavages of that part never at- 
tempted to go over to the iflatm afterwards. They were 
j^ terrified widi the accounts given by thoic four 'men 
(Am* < l^m id^ M^fe^l?^ & ica,) thai dicy Micvcd, 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. nj 
wlioeirer went to diat enchanted iiland, ^voold be deHroy* 
. cd with ^ from the gods. 

This, however, I knew not, and therefore was under 
oondiiaal appreheniions for a good while, and kept al- 
ways upon my guard, I and all my army ; for as we 
were now four of us, I would have ventured upon an hun- 
dred of them, fairly in the open £eld at any time. 

In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing, 
the fear of their coming wore oiF, and I began to take 
my former thotights of a voyage to the main into confi- 
deration, being likewife affured by Friday's father, that 
J might depend upon good ufage from dieir nation on hiS 
account, if I would go. 

• But my thoughts were a little fufpended, \^en I had 
a ferious difcpftrie with the Spaniard, and when I un- 
derwood, that there were fixtcen more of Jiis country- 
men and Portttguefe, who having been, caft away, and 
made their efcape to that fide, Uved there at peace in- 
deed with the favages, but were very fore put to it for 
neceflaries, and incfeed for life ; I afked him all the par- 
ticulars of their voyage, and found they were a Spanifli 
fhip, bound from the Rio de la Plata, to the Havanha, - 
being diredled to leave their loading there, ^vhich was 
chiefly hides and filver,. and to bring back what Euro- 
pean goods they could meet with there ; that tliey had 
five Portugoefe feamen on board, whopi they took out of 
another wreck ; that fiveof their own men were drowned 
ivhen firft the fhip was lofl ; and that thefe efcaped 
through infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived al^ioft 
ftarved on the Canibal coaft, where they expelled to 
hsffre beea devoured every moment. 
- He told me, they had (bme arms with theiBj but they 
^^re perfectly ufelefs, for that they ^ad neither powder 
or ball, the wihing of the fea having fpoiled aH theif 
powder, but *^tle which they uied at their firit laxwU 
ing to provide tftii|fclves fome food. 

I aiked him whaf?jae thought would become of them 
there ; and if they had formed no deiiga of making aoy 
efcape ? He (aid, they hod many confultations about it ; 
but that having neither vefiel, nor tools to build one, 
oy provifions of any kind, th^ir cottofels always ej^dixx 
tears aaddefpa^. ..W:. 



J 



S30 ADVENTURES OF • 

I aflteS him how he thought they would .receive a pr<Vr 

pofal from me, v^'hich might tpnd towards an efcapc;an4 
whether, if they were all here, it might not be done ? I 
told hii^ with freedom, I feared moflly their treachery 
and ill ufage of me, if I put my life ijx their hand^ ; for 
that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature oi 
man ; nor did men always fquare their dealings by the 
obligations th. y had received, fo much as they did by 
the advantages thev expe£^ed : I told him, it would b^ 
very hard, tnat I mould be the inftrument of their delit 
▼erance, and that they ihouldafterwardsnzakemie their 
prifoner in New Spain, where an Englifliman waacertaiiit 
to* be made a facrifke, what neceifity, or what accident 
foeyer, brought hifn thither : and that I had rather be . 
delivered up to thefavages, and be devoured alive, then 
fall into the mercilefs claws of the priefts, and be carried 
into the inquiiition. I added, that otherwife 1 was per-*^ 
iuaded, if they were all here, we might, with fo many 
hands, build a bark large enough to carry us all away 
either to the Bralils fouthward, or to the ilknds or Spa* 
niih coaft northward : but that if in requital they fhoulxf^ 
when I had put weapons into their hands, carry me by 
Ibrce among their own people, I might be ill ufed for 
my kindncfs to them, and make my cafe worfe than it 
was before. ^ * 

- Heanfwered with a great deal of candour and inge* 
nuity, ^hat their condition was (b mifergble, and they 
were fo fcnlible of it, that he believed they would abhor 
the thought of u6ng any man unkindly that fhould con-^ 
tribute to their deliverance j and that, if I pleafed, he 
would go to them with the old man, and difcaurfe with 
them about it,'^and return again,, and bring mc their an?- 
fwer : that he would make conditions with them uport 
their folemn oatbr that they would be abfoJutely under 
nay leading, as their commander and captain ; and that 
they (houid iwear upon the holy facraments and gofpcl^ 
to be ^rue tp n>e, and go to iugh cr iftian country as I 
fliouid agree to, and no other ; and to be direfted wholly 
jmd abfolutely by my orderr till they were landed fafely 
in fuch country as I intended ; and that he would bring a 
contraft from ihcm under their hands for thst purpofei. 
TheDiie.^old me, he would firft fwear to-mc hir^elf. 



R OB I N S O N CR U S O E. #y 

that he Would acver ftir from me as long as he livedo 
till I gave him order ; and that he would tak,e my fid« 
to the laft drop of blood, if there feould happen the 
leail breach of faith among his countiymen. 

He told me, they were all of them very civil honelt 
men, -and they were under the greateft diitr^s knaginf* 
able, having neither weapons or clothes, nor any food, 
but ai^ the tnercy and difcretion of the favages ; out of 
all hopes of ever returning to their own count jy ; and 
that he was fure, if I would undertake their rdief,.the]f!: 
would live and die by me. 

Upon thefe afluranoes, I refolded to venture torelievte: 
diem, if poffible, and to fend the old favage a^d thia 
Spaniard over to them to treat : lyjt when he h/d^ottem: 
^II things in readtnefs to go, the Spaniard hin^felfftarted 
an objeftion, which had fo much prudence in it on one- 
hand, and fa much fincerity on the oth«" hand, th^t I 
could not but be very well fatisfied in it ; and, by hk- 
advice, put off the deliverance of his comrades for at 
leafl half a year. The cafe was thus : 

He had btenwith us now about a month ; during^ 
which time I had let him fee in what manner I had|M-o- 
vided,with the afliftance of Providence, formyfupport;; 
and he faw evideitfly what ftock of com and rice I h^A 
lain up ; which, as it was more than fufficient for m}i* 
felf, fo it was not fuflkient, at leafi, without good huf» 
bandry, for my family, nc w it was incr^afed to number 
four : but much lefs would it be fuflScient, if his coun- 
trymen, who were, ^as he faid, fourteen flill aliv6> 
fhould come over; and feafl of all would it be fufficierit 
to vi6lual our veifel, if we fliould byild one, for a voyage 
to any of the chriftian colonies of America. So he told 
me, he i bought it would be moreadvifeabk, tolet hirtL 
and the other two dig and cultivate fome more Jand, as. 
much as I could fpare feed to fow ; and that we fhould 
-wait another harveft, th^t we 'might have a fupply of 
corn for his rouhtrymeii when they fhould come ; for 
want might be a temptation to them tO'difagree,,ornot 
to think themfelves delivered, btherwife than out of onie 
difficulty intb another -.you know, fayshe, thechildreti 
of Ifrael, though they rejoiced at firfl at their being deli- 
vered qn" of £gypt, yet rebcil^devenagaiiift Grodhim^itf, 



Wit ADVEHTURItS OP 

^hstiieUTered them, when they came to want bread la 
l2ie wUderaeTs. 

Ifit cantioQ was (otes^onMe, and his advice (o good» 
diat I ccmld not but be very well picafed with his propo- 
ial> as well as I was latisiied with his fidelity : fp we fell 
to diggii^, all four ot as, as well as the wooden tools 
we were mrnifhed with permitted ; and in aboat a nionth's 
time, by the end of which it was feed time» we had got- 
ten as mach land cured and triimned up as we fowed 
fwenty-twpbofhels of barley on, and iixteen jars of rice, 
which was, 'm fhort, all the feed we had to.fpare^ |ior 
•indeed did we kave oarfehres barley fufficieilt for our 
•own food for the fix months that we had to expe^ ottr 
crop, that is to fay, reckoning from the time we fet our 
ieed afide for ibwing ; for it is not to be fbppofed it is $z 
months in the ground in that country. 

Having now fociety enough, and our number being 
fufficient to put us out-of fear of the (aVages^ if they had 
jcome, unkfii their number had been very j;reat, we wem 
freely all over the ifhmd, where ever we found occaiiop ; 
and as here we had our efcape or deliverance upon ont 
•thoughts, it was iinpoffible» at leaft for ms^ to have.tbe 
means of it out of mine ; to this purpofe, J marked out 
ieveral tre^, which I thought fit for ov^r work^ and liet 
Friday and his father to cutting them down ; and then % 
caufed the Spaniard, tp.whont 1 in^rted mv thoughts o& 
^at afifair, to (r/erfee smd dired their works^: I ihewed 
them with what indefatigable p^n& I had hewed a large 
.Itee into iingle plai^, and^ h cau^d them to dpt the like 
tiM they had made about a do^en large planks of good 
oak,- near two feet broad, thirty-five feet long, and frcaii 
awo inches to four inches thick t what prodigious labour 
it took up, any one may imagine.. 

At the fame time 1 coocrivedto iitereafe rhy little flock 
•f tame goats as much as I could ; and to this. purpofe I 
nade Fr^ay and the Spaniard togo out one d|]|, aikd x|ty 
felf, witk Friday, tiiie ne^it day, for we tdok our tunjs : 
:»id by this mea^ we got abput twenty youiig kids to 
breed up- v/ith the ilellj for whenever we (hot the dajn, 
, we faved the kids, and added then* to. o»r- flock :: but 
-ibove all> the: feafon for curing the grapes cdmiig on, I 
.fwifed ilKh a |fo<^g]iOu> (f^ to^b^ hin^g up i^ t\yt 



ROBINSO*^ CRUSQE. 235 

tan, diat I believe, had we been at Alicant, where the 
raifins of the (iin arc cured, we ihould have filled fixty or 
eighty barrels ; and thefe with our bread, was a great 
part of our food, and very good living too, I affure you ; 
for it is an exceeding nouriihing food. ^ 

It was now harveft, and our crop in good order ; it 
was not the moft plentiful increafe I had feen in the iHand, 
but, however, it was enough to anfwerour end ; for from 
twenty-two bulhels of barley, we brought in and throihed 
out above two hundred- and twenty bullicis, and the like 
in proportion of the rice, which was flore enough for 
our food to the next harveft, though all the fixteen Spa- 
niards had been on fhore With me ; or; if we had be^ 
ready for a voyage, it would very plentifully have vic- 
tualled our fhip, to have carried us to any part of the 
world, that is to fay, of America. When we had thus 
houfed and fecured our magazine of corn, we fell to work 
to make more wicker-work ; viz. great baft ets, in wh^ch 
we kept it ; and the Spaniard was very handy and d^* 
trous at this part, and, often blamed me, that 1 did not 
make fome things for diefence, of this kind of work ^^Hit 
I faw no need of it : and now having a fully fupply of 
food for all the guells cxpe6ted, . I gave the 5paniai5< 
leave to go over to the main, to fee what he could do 
widi thofe he left behind him there: I gave him- a ftrift 
diarge in writing not to bring any man with him, who 
would not firil (wear in the prefence of himielf and^^ 
-the old favage, that he would no way injure, fight with, 
or attack the perfon he fhould find in the illand, who wm 
Co kind to fend for them in order to their delivejg-iwle ; 
but that they would (land by and defend him agiAd all 
fuch attempts ; and where eyer they went, would be en- 
tirely under, and fubjefled to his command } and that 
this (hpnld be put in writing, and (igne4 with their 
hands : how we were to have this done, when I kne;i¥ 
they had neither peiror ink, that indeed, was a qufiSP* 
tion which we never aOced. 

Under thefe infh-udions, the Spaniard, and the ol<C 
lavage (the fadier of i'^riday) went-away in one of the 
canoes, which they might be faid to come in, tn- rather 
were broug}it in, when they came as priibners to be de* 
vouredby the favagcs* „ - 



S34 ADVENTl^RES OF 

I gtvc each of them al mufquet with a firelock on it; 
and about eight charges df powder and ball, charging 
them to be very good hufbands of both, and not to uw 
either of them but upon urgent occacfion. 

This was a chearful work, being the firft meafures^ 
ofedby me in view of my deliverance for now 27 years 
and.fome days ; I gave them provifions of bread, and of 
dried grapes, fufficient for themfelves for many days, and 
fufficicnt for their countrymen for about eight days time ; 
and wiihing them a good voyage, I let them go, agree- 
ing with them about a fignalthey Ihould hang out at their ^ 
return, by which I fhould know them again, when they 
came back^at a diftance, before they came on fhore. 

They went away with a fair gale on the day that the 
mooji was at the full ; by my account in the month of 
/ Oftober ; but arfor the exa<il reckoning of days, after I 
liad once loft it, I could never recover it again ; nor had , 
I kept even the number of ye:^^ fo panftually, as to, be 
iiire that I was right, though, as it proved, when I after* 
wards examined my account, I found I had )^t^t a true 
fcckoning of years, 

It was na leis than eight days I waited for them, whea 
% ftrange and linibrefeen accident intervened, of which 
^6 like has ndt> perhaps, been heard of ill Mftory. I 
was faft aflecp in my hatch one morning, when my maa 
Friday came running in to me, and called aloud, Mafter, 
mafter, they are come, they are come. 

I jumped up, and, regardlefs of danger, I went oat 
^ foon as I could get my clothes on, through my little 
prov^ which (by the way) was by^ this time -grown to 
be a very thick wood : I fay, regardlefs of danger, I 
went without my arms, wh'ch was not my eudom totlo % 
but I was furprited, when turning my eyes to the fea, I 
prefently faw a boat at about a league and an half*s dif- 
tance, ftanding in for the fhore, with a (houider-of* 
mutton fail, as they cafl it, and the wind blowing pretty 
fair to bring them in : alfo I obferved prefently, that they 
ftid not come from that fide which the (hore lay on, but 
from. tlie. fouthermoll end. of the idand: upon this I 
tailed Friday in, and bid him lieclofe, forthefc were not 
' the people we looked for, and that^we did not know yet 
wh&thex, they were frieuds or enemiesu 

In 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. ^35 

In tlic next place, I went in to fetch iny pre{p2dive- 
glafs, to fee what I could make of them ; and havings 
taken the laddef out, I climbed up to the top of the hill, 
as I ufed to do when I was apprehenfive of any thing, 
and to take my view the plainer- without being dif- 
^ovcred. 

I had fcarcc fet my foot on the hill, when my eye 
plainly difcovered a fhip lying at ah anchor, at about 
two leagues and ^ halPs diftawce from me, S. S. E. but 
not above a league and an half from the ihore. By my 
obfervation it appeared plainly to be an EngliilLihip, 
and the boat appeared t© be an Englifk long-boat. 

1 4 \nnot exprefs the confufion I was in, though the 
joy of feeing a fhip, and one whom I had rcafon tif 
bclkve was manned by my own countrymieB, and confe- 
quently friends, was fuch as I cann^ defcribe ; but yet 
I had feme fecret doubts hung about me, I cannot tell 
firom whence they came, bidding me* keep upon fny 
guard. In the firft place, it oecurred^to me toccnfider 
what bnfinefs aii Engliih fhip could have in that part of 
die world; lincc it wasf not. the way to or frpm any 
part of tl^ world where the Englifti had any traffick ;• 
and I knew thi^re had been no ftornij.te drive them in 
there, as in ^ftrefs ; and that if they Were Englifh really* 
it was moll probable, that they were here upon no good 
defign ; and that I had better continue as I was, than fall 
into the hands of»thie^ce8 and murderers. 

Let no man defpife the fecret hints and notices of 
danger, which fometimes are gijren him when he may 
think there is no .poffibility of its being real. That fiich 
hints and noti^^es are given us, 1 believe i^*# that 
have made any obfervations of things can deny ; that 
they are certain dilcoveries of an invifible world, and^ 
a converfe of fpirits, we cannot doubt ; and if tfie 
tendency of tUem ieems to be to warn us of dan-' 
ger,,why'dK)uld ,we ivot fu;;n3ofe they are froni fomej 
friendly Agent (whether fupreme, or inferior and fubor-, 
^nate, is not die queilion) and that they- are given for 
our good ? ^ ' 

The preJent quef^ion abundantly confirms me in the, 
juftice of this jeafoning ; for had I not been made clb- 
tious by tills fecret a(linonition> come from whence it 

mil. 



1 



J36 ADVENTURES OP 

wi!\ I had been mxdone ihevit&bl)^ and in a &r worie 
condition than before, as yoa will fee prefently. 

I had not kept myfelf long in this pofture, but I iaw 
the boat draw near the (hore, as if thev looked for a 
creek to thurlt in at for the convenience of landing ; how- 
ever, as they did not come quite far enoa^ they did- 
not fee the Jittle inlet where I formerly kuM^ my rafb, 
iHit run their boat on ihore upon the beac&» at about 
half a mile from me, which was very happy for. me ; 
for otherwife they would have landed juil, as I may 
iav, at my door, and would hs^ve ibon beaten me out 
of my caftle> and^ pexhaps^ liave thundered me of all 
I had. 

. When they were on ihore, I was fully £itisfied thcy^ 
were Englifhmen, at leall moR^of themr-ofke or ti^ I 
thought were Du^, but it ^d>n«t-j5«)ve fo: t^are 
were in aH eleven men, whereof three of them 1 found 
were unarmed^ and (as I thought] botmd; and when the 
£rft four w five of them were jiimped oa fiiore, they 
took thofe three out of the boat as prifonert : one of the 
tiiree J could perceive ufing the mofi pafliooate gellures 
€f >mfeaty« ^ffliaion, and defpair, even to a kirn) of 
fxti|iyagance ; the other tw<>, I coidd perceive^ Ikted w 
their hands ibm^imesy and appeared ConcemeSf indeed* 
Kiu ni^ to fuch a degree as the £rft. 

I wa$perfe£t]y confounded at the fight> and knew not 
what the meaning of it fhould be , Fri^y called ou^ to 
to me in Engliih, ^s well as he could, O mafler 1 yoa 
£ee Englifh mans eat p^iibners as well ^s favage mans. 
Why, faid I, Friday, do yovT think they aregomg to cat 
fihcm then ? V es, ^ys Friday^ they >yill eat them. No, no» 
6id I, Friday J I am afraid they will murder them in- 
deed ; but yott may be fure they will not eat them. 

AH this while I had no thought of what the matter 
resdly was, but flood trembling with the horror of the 
^ht, expefting every moment when the three prifoners 
^old be killed ; nay, once I faw one of the villfdns 
lift op his arm with a great cutlace (as the feamen «call 
it) or fword, to ftrike one of the poor men ; and I' 
.^jxpeded to fee Urn fall every moment, at which all the 
Wtod iii.|iiy body feemed to xun chill in my veins. 

IwiOucd, 



R031NS0N CRUSOE. ijy 

t I wifhed heartily now for our Spaniard^ and the favagc 
that was gone with him ; or that I had any way to havt 
come yndifcovcred within (hot of them, that I might have 
refcued the three men ; for I faw no fire arms they had 
among them ; but it fell X)ut to my mind another way. 

After I had obrcrved the outrageous ufage of the three 
men by the iafolcnt feameh, I obferved the fellows i-aii 
fi^attermg about the land, as if they wanted to fee the 
country : I obferved alfo, that the three o^er men had 
liberty to go where they pleafed ; but they fat down all 
three upon the ground very penfive, and looked like mth 
ii^defpair. ^ 

This put me in mind of the firft time when I came 
on fhore, and began to look about me ; how I gave my* 
felf over for loft, how wildly I looked round met, what 
dreadful apprehenfions I had^ and how I lodged in the 
tree all night for fear of being devoured by wild beafts^ 

As I knew nothing that night of the lupply I was to* 
receive by the providential driving of the 0iip nearer the 
land, by the uorms ^and tides, by which 1 have fince 
been To long nouri^ed and fupported ; fothefe three poof 
defolate men knew nothing how certain of deliverance 
and fupply they were, how near it was to tlheiki, and 
how effe^ually and really they were in a condition of 
iafety^ at the fame time they thouglft thcmfelves loft, 
and their cafe defperate. 

So little do we fte before us in the world, and fo 
much reafon haVe we to depend chearfully upon the 
great maker of the world, nhat he does not le^ve his 
creatures fo al^olutely, deftitute, but that in the worft 
circumftances they have always fomethihg to be thank* 
fiil for, and fometimes are nearer their deliverance than 
they imagine ; hay, are even brought to their deliver- 
ance by the means by which they feem to be brought 
to their deft: u£tion. 

It was juft at the top of hijgjh-water when thefe 
people came on fhore, and while partly they Aoqd 
parlving with the prifonei^ they brought, and partly 
while they rambled about to fee what kind of place they 
were in, they had carelefly ftaid till the tide was fpeat, 
and the wster was ebbed confiderably away, leaving 
their boat a ground. 



! 



•38 ADVENTURES OF ' 

They ha4 left two men in the boat, who, as 1 found 
afterwards, having drank a little too much brandy, fell 
alleep ; however, one of them waking fboner than the 
iDther, and finding the boat too faft a groiRid.fbr him td 
ilir it, hallooed for the refi who were draggling aboHt^ 
-upon which they all^foon came to the boat ; but it was 

faft all their ftrength to launch her, the boat being venr 
eavy, and the (hore on that fide being a foft oufy fand> 
almoft like a qoickfand. 

la this condition, liketme feamcn, who arc, perhaps, 
(the leait of all mankmd given to forethought, they gave 
it over, and away they fbrolled about the country again i 
4md I heard one of them fay aloud to another (calling 
j^m off from the boat ;) Why, let her alone. Jack, can*t 
ye ? fhe'll float nexttide : by which I was fully confirmed 
4n the main enquiry, of what countrymen they were. 

All this while I kept myfelf dofe, not once daring to 
ilir out of my cafUe, dny fiff^ier than to my place of 
obfexvation, near the top of the hill; and very glad 
I was, to think how well it was fortified : I knew it was 
no lefs than ten hours before the boat could be on float 
again, and by that time it would be dark, and I might 
be more at liberty to fee their motions, and to hear their 
difcourfe, if they had any . 

In the mean tW^ I fitted myfelf up for a battle, as*be« 
fore, tho' with more caution, knowing I had to do with 
another kind of enemy than4 had a.t firit: I ordered Fri- 
day alfo, whom I had made an excellent markihian with 
his gun, to load himielf with arms« I took myfj^lf two 
fowliitg-pieces, and I gave him three mufquets : my hgure, 
.indee<C was very fierce ; 1 had my fonnidable goat-fkin 
teat on, with the great cap I mentioned, a naked fword, 
two piftols in my belt, and a gun upon each fhoulder. 

It was my defign, as 1 faid above, not to have made 
any attempt till it was dark ; but about two o'clock, 
being the heat of the day, I found that in (hort they 
were all gone ftrageling into the woods, and, as I 
thought, 'Were all laid down to fleep : the three poor 
idiftreiled men, too anxious for .their condition to ^et 
any fleep, were however fet down under the Ihelter of 
a great tree, at about a quarter of a mile from me, and 
as I thought, but of fight of any of the refl. 



R O B I N S O N C R U S O £• ^3^ 

llponthis Irefohred todifcovermyfelft6thein,andleara 
ibmething of their condition : immedtateiy I r^arched in 
the figure above, my nian Friday at a good diihmcebe* 
hind mc, as formidable fbr his arms as 1, bat riot -mak* 
ing quite fo flaring a Tpe^e-like figure as I did. 

I came as near them undifcovered as I could, and then^ « 
before any of them faw me, I called aloud to them in 
Spaniifa, What are ye. Gentlemen ? 

They ftarted up at the aoiie, but were tea times more 
eonfoundc^ when they faw me » «ad the uncouth figure 
that I made : they made no anfwer at all, but I thought 
I perceived ithcmJTsft gijing toflyfromme^^^whcnl fpoke 
to them in £nglilh : Oentlomen^faid I;do not be furpifed 
at me ; perhaps you ma? have a friend near you, wheii 
you did not exffc^ it : He muft be fent dii^edJy front 
tieaven then, faid one of thcni very gravely tp me, and 
))uUing off his hat at the fame time, tor our condition rs 
pad the help of mart.' All help is from heaven. Sir-, 
laid I : but can you put a (hanger in the way how to 
help you ? For you feem to me to be in fome great dif* 
trels : I faw you when you landed ; and when yott 
feemed to make application to the brutes^ that came with 
you, I faw one of them lift up h^s fword to kill you. 

The poor man, with tears running down his facc^ 
and trembling, looking 1 ike oificaftpnifli^d, returned. Am 
I talking to God or man ? Is it a real man, or an angd J 
Be in no fear ?bout that, Sir, faid I : if God hadient 
an anjwcl to relieve youf he v would have come better 
clothed j and armed after another manner, than you fee 
me in ; pray lay afide your fears ; I am a man, au£ng^ 
iiihrnan, and difpofed to ailifl you, you fee ; I havecfne 
fcrvant only; we have anns and ammunition; tell u« 
freely, can we ferve you ?— What is your cafe ? 

Our cafe, faid he, fir, is too long to tell you, while 
our murderefs are lo near ; >ut, in Ihort, fir, I was coin- 
rriander of that Ihip, my men having mutined againft 
me th%y have been nardlypre vailed on not to murder me, 
•and at iaft have fet me on more in this defolate place, with 
thefe two.men with me^ one my mate, the other apaflea- 
«ger, where we expe^«d toperilh . believing the place to be 
nminhabited, and know not yet what to think of it. 
Where arc^hofe biTJtes^ your^cnpmies ? faid I ; do 



I 



t40 ADVENTURE OF 
ou know where tfiey are gone ? There thqr are,A*, faid 
le, pointing to a thicket of trees ; my heart trembles for 
fear thev have feen us, and heard you fpeak ; if they have, 
they will certainly murder us kll« 

Have th^ any fire-arms ? £ud I : he anfwered they 
fed only two pieces, and one which they left *n the boat. 
Well dJen, find I, leave the reft to me ; I fee diey^reall 
afleep ; it is an eafy thing to kill them all ; but (hall we 
father take them prifoners ? He told me there were two 
ddperate villains among them, that4t was fcarceTafe to 
llrew any mercy to i but if they were fecured, he believ* 
cd ail tlie reft would return to their dutv^: I afked-«Mm, 
which they were ? He told me, he could not at diat dif- 
tance defci-ibe them^ but he would obey my x>rders in 
any thing I would dtre6t: Well^ faid I, let us retreat out 
of their view cm* hearing, left they awake, and we will 
refol ve farther ; £o they^villingly went back with nn^ till 
-the woods covered us from them. 

Look you, fir, faid I, if I ventune upon your delive- . 
ranee, are you willing to make two condition^ with me? 
H^anticipated my propofals, by telling me, that, both 
he and the fliip, if recovered, fbould be wholly direded 
and commanded by me in every thing; and if the ftup 
was not recovered, he would live sum! die with me in 
what part of the world foever I would fend him ; and 
the two other men faid the fame. 

Well, faid I, my conditions are but two: i. That 
while you ftay on this ifland with me, you will not pre- 
tend to suiy authority here ; and if I jput arms into ypur 
^nds, you will upon all occafions give them up to me, 
and do no prejudice to me or mine, upon this iOand, 
and in the mean time to be governed by Ihy orders, 

2. That if the fliip is or may le recovered, you will , 
carry me and mjr man to England, pafla^e free. 

I^^^ve me all the ail'urance that the mvention and 
&th bra man could devife, that he would comply with 
thefe moft reafonabie demands, and befides would owe 
his life to me, and acknowledge it upon all occafions as 
long as he lived. 

Well then, faid 1, here are three mufquets for youj 
with powder and ball ; tell me next what you think is 
proper to be done ; he fhevi^ed all the teftimony of his 

yratitude 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 251. 

gratitude that he was able ; but offered to be wholly 
guided by me : I told him, I thought it was hard ven- 
turing any thing, but the beft;nethod I could think of, 
was to fire upon them at once, as they lay ; and if any 
were not killed at the firft volley, and offered to fubmit, 
we might fave tliem, and fo put it wholly upon God's 
providence to dire<^ the fliot. 

He faid very modeftly, that he was loth to kill them, 
if he could help it ; but that thofe two were mcorrigible 
villains, and had been the authors of all the mutiny in 
the fliip ; and if they efcaped, we fhould be luidone ftill ; 
for they would go on board, and bring the whole fhip's 
company, and deflroyusall : Well thpn, faid I, neceiTity 
legitimates my advice ; for it is the pnly way to fave our 
lives. However, feeing him ftill cautious, of fliedding 
fclood, I told him, they fho.uld go themfelves, and ma- 
nage as they found convenient. . 

In the middle of this difcourfe we heard fome of them 
awake, and foon after we faw two of them on iheir feet : 
I afked him, if either of them were the men who he had 
faid were the heads of the mutiny ? He faid, No. Well 
then, faid. I, you may let them efcape, and Providence 
feems to have wakened them on purpofe to fave them- 
felves : Now, faid I, if the reft efcape you, it is your fault. 

Animated w-i'S this, he took the mufquet I had given 
him in his hand, and piftol in his belt, aixi his" two 
comrades with hiin, with each man a piece in his hand ; 
the two men, y'ho.were with him, going firft, m^de fome 
noife, at which one of the feamen, who was awake, 
turned about, and feeing them coming, cried out to tlie 
reft; but.it was too late then; for the moment he cried 
out, they firedf»I mean the two men, the captain wifely 
r.eferving his own piece : they had fo well aimed their 
ihot at the men they knew, tliat one of them was killed 
on the fpot, and the other very much wounded ; bj^not 
being dead, he ftarted up on his feet, and called ^tgerly 
for help to the other ; but the captain, ftepping to him, 
told him it was too late to cry for help ; he ftiould ca 1 
upon God to forgive his villany ; and with that jWori 
knocked him down- with the ftock of his mufquet, fo 
that he never fpoke more : there were three more in the 
company, and one of them was alfo ilightly wounde \ : 

Voju.I. L ~ by 



a4» ADVENTURES OF 

by this time I was come ; and when they faw their dan- 
ger, and that it was in vain to refift, they begged for 
mercy: the captain told them, he would fpare their 
lives, if they would give him any aflurance of their ab- 
horrence of the treachery they had been guilty of, and 
ivould fwear to be faithful to him in recovering the fhip, 
and afterwards in carrying her back to Jamaica, from 
whence they came : they aave him all the proteftations 
of their fincerity that could be defined, and he was will- 
ing to believe them, and fpare their lives, which I was 
not againft ; only I obliged them to keep them bound 
hand and foot while they were upon the iflsnd. 

While this was doing, I fent Friday with the captain '0 
mate to the boat, with orders to fecure her, and bring 
away the oars and fail, which they did ; and by and by, 
three draggling men, that were (happily ft>r them) part- 
ed from the reft, came back upon hearing the guns 
fired ; and feeing their captain, who before was their 
prifoner, now their conqueror, they fubmitted to be 
bound alfo, and fo our viftory was complete. 

It now remained, that the captain and I fhouid enquire 
into one another's circumftances : I began firft, and told 
him my whole hiftory, which he heard with an attention 
even to amazement, and particularly at the wonderful 
manner of my being furnilhed with provifions: and am- 
munition ; and indeed, as my ftory is a whole collection 
of wonders, it affefted him deeply ; but when he reflected 
from thence upon himfelf, and how I feemed to have been 
preferved there on purpofe to fave his-life, the tears ran 
down his face, and hecould not fpeak a word more. 

After this communication was at an end, I carried 
him and his two men into my apartments, leading them 
in juft where I came out, viz. at the top^of the houfe ; 
"where I refrefhed them with fuch provifions as I had,, 
and (hewed them all the contrivances I had made du- 
ring my long, long inhabiting that place. 

All I fhewed them, all I faid to tnem, was perfe6Uy 
amazing ; but, above all, the captain .-^^mired my for- 
tification ; and how perfe^^Iy I had concealed my retreat 
with a grove of trees, which, having now been planted 
near twenty years, and the trees growing much fafter 
than ih England, was become a little wood, and fo 

thick 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. , 543 

thick, ihat it was unpaflable in anyj)art of it, but at 
that one fide where I had refei-ved my little winding 
paflage into it: this I told him was my caflle, and my 
relidence ; but that I had a feat in the country, as moft 
princes have, whither t could retreat upon occafion, and 
I would fhew him that too another time; but at prefent 
t)ia- bufinefs was to confider how to recover the ihip : 
he agreed with me as to that ; but told me, he was per- 
fectly at a lofs what meafure to take; for that there 
were ftill fix and twenty hands on board, who having 
entered into a curfed confpiracy, by which they had all 
forfeited their lives to the law, would be hardened in 
it now by defperation ; and would carry it on, knowing 
that if they were reduced, they fhould be brought to the 
gallows as foon as thciy came to England, or to any of 
the Englilh colonies ; and that therefore there would be 
no attacking them with fo fmall a number as we were. ^ 

I mufed for fome time upon what h^ had faid, and 
found it was a very rational conclufion, and that there- 
fore fomething was to be refolved on very fpeedily, as 
well to draw the men on board into fome fnare for their 
furprize, as to prevent their landing upon us, and de- 
ftroying us :' upon this it prefently occurred to me, that 
in a little while, the fhip's crevv, wondering what was 
become of their comrades, and of the boat, would cer- 
tainly come on ihore in their other boat to fee for them ; 
and that then perhaps they might come armed, and be 
too ilrong for us : this, he allowed, was rational. 

Upon this I told him, the firft thing we had to do^ 
was to flave the boat, which lay upon the beach, fo that 
they might not carry her off; and, taking every thing 
out of her, leave her fofar ufelefs as not to be fit to fwim ; 
accordingly we went on board, took the arms which 
were left on board out of her, and whatever elf^ we 
found there, which was a bottle of brandy, and another 
of rum, a few bifcuit-cakes, an horn of powder, and a 
great lump of fugar in a piece of canvas; the fugar 
was five or fix pounds ; all which was very welcome to 
me, efpecially the brandy and fugar, of which I had had 
none left for many years. 

When we had carried all thefe things on ihore (the 
oars, maft, fail, and rudder of the boat, vWerc cairied 



J 



a44 ADVENTURES OF 

away before, as above) we knocked a great hole in her 
bottom, that if they had come llrong enough to matter 
us, yet they could not carry off the boat. 

Indeed it was not much in my thoughts, that we 
could be capable to recover the fhip; but my view was, 
that if they went away without the boat, 1 did not much . 
queflion to make her fit again to carry us away to the 
Leeward iilands, and call upon our friends th^ Spasniards 
in my way, for I had them ft ill in my thoughts. 

While we were thus preparing our defigns, and had 
firft, by main ftrength, heaved the boat up upon the 
beach, fo high that the tide would not float her ojF at 
high-water mark ; and, befides, had broken an hole in her 
bottom, too big to be quickly flopped, and were fat down 
mufing what we fhould do ; we heard the fhip fire a gun, 
and faw her make a waft with her ancient, as a fignal for 
the boat to come on board ; but no boat flirred ; and they 
iired feveral times, making other fignals for the boat. 

At lafl, when all their fignals and firings proved fruit- 
lefs, and they found the boat did not flir, we faw them 
(by the help of our glafles) hoifl another boat out, and 
row towards the fhore ; and we found as they apprpsich- 
ed, that there were no lefs than ten men in her, and that 
they had fire arms with them. 

As the fhip lay almofl two leagues from the fhore^ 
we had a full view of them as they came, and a plain 
fight of the men, even of their faces.; becaufe ^he tide 
having fet them a little to the eafl of the other boat, they 
rowed up under fliore, to come to the fame place where 
the other had landed, and where the boat lay. 

By this means, I fay, we had a full view of them, 
and the captain knew the perfons and charaders of all 
the men in the boat ; of whom he faid that there were 
three very honefl fellows, who, he was fure, were led 
into this confpiracy by the refl, being overpowered and 
frighted. 

But that for the boatfwain, who, it feems, was the 
chief officer among them, and all the refl, they were as 
outrageous as any of the fliip's crew; and were, no 
doubt, made defperate in their new enterprize; and ter- 
ribly a pprehenfive he was, that they would be too power- 
ful for us, 

Ifmilcd 



ROBINSON CRUSO^E. 245 

r I fmiled at him, and told him, that men in onr cir- 
cumftances were paft the operations of fear : that feeing 
almoft every condition that could be was better than that' 
we were fuppofed to be in, we ought toexpei5t,that thecon-r 
fequence, whether death or life, would be fure to bea de- 
liverance; I alkcd him,what he thought of the circumftan* 
ces of my life, and whether a deliverance were not worth 
venturing for. And where, fir, faid I, is ydur*belief of my 
being preierved here on purpofe to fave your life, M'hrcilJ 
elevated you a little while ago ? For my part, faid I, there: 
feems to be but one thing amifs in all the profpeft of it. 
What's that ? fays he. Why, faid I, 'tis that, as you fay^^ 
there are three or four honeft fellows among them, which 
fhould be fpared ; had they been all of the wicked part o£ 
the crew, I fliould have thought God's providence had 
fingled them out to deliver them into your hands; for 
depend upon it, every mao) of them that comes alliore> 
are our own, and fliall die or live, as they behave to usi 

As I fpbke this with a raifed voice, and chearfii coun- 
tenance, I found it greatly encoutaged him; fo we fct 
vigoroufly to our bufinefs : we had, upon the firft ap- 
pearance of the boat's coming from the fhip, confidered 
of feparating our prifoners, and had indeed fecured them 
efFe^ually. 

Two of them, of whom the captain was lefs aflured than 
ordinary,! fent withFriday,and one of the three 'delivered 
men) to my cave, where they were remote euough, and 
out ot danger of being heard or difcovered, or of finding 
their way out of the woods, if they could have delivered 
themfelves : here they left em bound, but gave 'em provi- 
lions, and promifed 'em, if they continued there quietly 
to give *'em their liberty in a day or two ; but that if they 
attempted their efcape, they ihouhd be put to death with- 
out mercy. They promifed faithfujly to bear their con- 
finement with patience, and were very thankful that they 
had fuch good ufage as to have provifions, and a light left 
Vm j for Friday gave 'em candles (fuch as we made our- 
felves) for their comfort ; and they did not know but that 
he flood centinel over 'eni at the entrance. 

The other prifoners had better ufage ; two of them 

were kept pinioned indeed, becaufe the captain was not 

free to truft them 1 but the other two were taken into my 

L 3 fervlce 



1 



a46 ADVENTURES OF 

fcrviccupon their captain's recommendation^ and \ipoii 
their folemnly engaging to live and die with us ; ib» 
with them and the three honcft men, we were feven men 
well armed ; and I made no doubt -wfi fhould be able to 
deal well enough with the ten that were a coming, con- 
fidering that the captain hadfaid, there were three or four 
honefl men among them alfo. 

As foon as they got to the place wheftct. their other 
boat lay, they ran their boat into the beach^ and came 
all on ihore, hauling the boat up sifter them, which I was 
glad to fee ; for I was afiaid they would rather have left 
the boat at an anchor, fome diflance froai the fhore, 
with fome hands in her to guard her; and fo we fhould 
not be able to feize the boat. 

Being on ihore, the firil thing they did, they ran all 
to the other boat ; and it was ealy to let they were under 
a great furprife, to find her ftripped, as above, of all that 
was in her, and a great hole' in tier bottom. 

Afte^ they had mufed awhile upon this, thpy fet up two 
or three great ihoutt, hallooing with all their mighty- to 
try if they could make their companions hear ; but all was 
to no purpofe ; then they came ail clofe in a ring, and 
£red a volley of their fmall arms, which indeed we 
heard, and the echoes made the woods ring ; but it waa 
all one ; thofe in the cave, we were fure, could not hear ; 
and thofe in oiu: keeping, though they heard it well 
Ciiough, y«t durft give no anfwer to them. 

They were fo afloniihed at the furprife of this, that, as 
they told us afterwards, they refolved to go all on board 
again to their fhip, and let them know there, that the 
men were all murdered, and the long-boat flaved ; ac- 
cording, they immediately launched the boat* again, 
and got all of them on board. 

The captain was terribly amazed, and even confound- 
ed at this, believing they would go on board the fhip 
again, and fet faij, givmg their comrades for loll, and 
fo he fliould ftill lofe the Ihip, which he was in hopes 
we fliould have recovered ; but he was - >kly as much 
frighted the other way. 

They had not been long put off with tlie boat, but we 
perceived them all coming on fliore again ; but with this 
new meaiUre in their conduft, whichi it feeaas, they con- 

fuUed 



ROBINSON CRUSOE- a4; 

£iltcd together upon ; vi*. to leave three men in th« 
boat, and the reft to go on Ihore,. and go up into the 
country to look for their fellows. 

This was a great difappointment to us ; for now we 
were at a Ipfs what to do ; for our feizing thofe feven men 
on fhore would be no advantage to us if we let the boat 
cfcape. becaufe they would then row away to the ftiip ; 
and then the reft of them would he fure to weigh, and fet 
fail, and fo our recovering the fhip would be loft. 
. However, we had no remedy but to wait and fee what 
the iflue of things might prefcnt : the feven men came 
on flxpre, and the three who remained in. the boat put 
her off to a good diftance from the ftiore, and came Xq 
an anchor to wait for them ; fo that it was impoflible for 
u$ to come at them in tlie boat. ~ 
. Thofe that camie on fhore kept clofe together, march-* 
ing towards the top of the little hill, under which my 
habitation lay ; and*we could fee them plainly y tho' they 
could not perceive us: we could have been very gla4 
they would have come nearer to us, fo that we mighty 
have fired at them ; or that tlicy would have gone farther 
piF, that we might have come abroad. 

But when they were come to the brow of the hill, 
where they could fee a great way in the valley and 
woods, which lay towards the north-eaft part, and 
where the ifland lay loweft, they flioUted and haUooed 
till they were weary ; and not caring, it feems, to ven-- 
ture far from the ftiore, nor far from one another, they 
fat down together under a tree, to confider of it : had 
they thought fit to have gone to fleep there, as the other 
party of them had done, they had done the job for us ; 
but they were too full of apprehenfions of danger, to 
venture to go to fleep, though they could net tell what 
the danger was they had to rear, neither. 

The captain made a very juft propofal to me upon 
tliis confultation of theirs ; viz. that perhaps they 
would all fire a- volley again, to endeavour to make 
their fellows hear, and that we fl:K)uid all fally upon 
them, juft at the jun6ture when their pieces were aU 
difcharged, and they would certainly yield, and ^ve 
fliould have them without bloodflied ; I liked the pro- 
JK>Xal| pjrovided it w^ done while we were a^su* enough 
L4 ta 



i 



n^fi ADVENTURES OF 

to come up to them, before they could load their pieces 

again. 

But this event did not happen, and We lay ftilt a long 
time,* very irrefolute what courfe to take, at length I 
told them, there would be nothing to be done in my 
opinion till night ; and then, if they did not return to 
the boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between 
them and the more, and fo might ufe fomc fh*atagem 
with them in the boat, to get them on fliore. 

We waited a great while, though veiy impatient, for 
their removing, and were very uneafy : when, after long 
confultations, • we faw them ftart all up, and rqarch down 
towards the fea : it feems, they had fuch dreadful ap- 
prehenfions upon them of the danger of the place, that 
they refolved to go on board the fhip again, give their 
companions over for loft, and fo go on with their in-: 
tended voyage with the Ihip. 

As foon as I perceived them go towards the fhore, I 
imagined it to be as it realty was ; that they had given 
over their fearch, and were for going back again ; and 
the captain, as foon as I told him my thoughts, was 
ready to fink at the apprehenfions of it ; but I prefently 
thought of a ftratagem to fetch them back again, and 
which anfwered my end to a tittle. 

I ordered Friday, and the captain's mate, to go over 
ihfi little creek weftward, towards the place where the 
favages came on fhore when Friday was refcued ; and as 
foon as they came to a little rifing ground, at about half 
a mile's dillance, I bade them. haTloo as loud as they 
could, and wait till they found the feanien heard them ; 
that as foon as ever they heard the feamen anfwer them,. 
they fhould return it again, and then keeping out of 
iight, take a round, always anfwering when the other 
hallooed, to draw them as far into the iflahd, and among 
the woods, as* poflible, and then wheel about again to 
me, by fuch ways I directed. 

They were juft going into the boat, when Friday and 
the mate hallooed, and they prefently heard them, and 
anfwering, run along the Ihdre weftward, towards the 
voice they heard, when they Were prefently ftopped by 
the creek, where the water being up, they could not get 
over'y and called for the boat to come up, and fet therrx. 
over, as indeed 1 exptde4, WUea 



ROBINSON CRXJSOE. 249 

When they had fet themfelves over ; I obferved that 
the boat being gone up a good way into the creek, and as 
it were in an harbour within the land, they took one of 
the three men out of her to go along with them, and left 
only two in the boat, .having faftened her to the flump 
(of a little tree on the fliore. 

This was what I wifhed for, arid immediately leaving • 
Friday and the captain's mate to their biifinefs, 1 took 
the reft with me, and, crofling the creek out of their 
fight, we furprifed the two men before they were aware» 
One of them lying on Ihoi'e, and the other being in the 
boat ; the fellow on fliore wa^ befween fleeping and 
Waking, and going to ftart up, the captain, who was 
foremoft, ran in upon him, and knocked him down, and 
then called out to him in the boat to yield, or he was a 
dead man. 

There needed very few arguments to perfuade a fingle 
man to yield, when he faw five men upon him, and his 
comrade knocked down ; befiies, this was,, it feems, one. 
of the three who were not fo hearty in the mutiny as the 
i'eft of the crew, and therefore was e^fily perfuaded not 
only to yield, but afterwards to join very fincerely with usl 

In the mean time, Friday and the captain's mate fo 
well managed their bufinefs with the reft, that they drew 
them, by hallooing and anfwering, from one bill to an- 
other, and from one wood to another, till they not only 
heartily tired them, but left them where they were very 
Aire they could not reach back to tlie boat before it was 
dark ; and indeed they were heartily tired themfelvea 
alfo by the time they came back to us-. 

We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in 
the dark, and to fall upon them, fa as to make fure 
work with them. 

It was feverai hdtirs after Friday came back to me 
before they came back to their boat ; and we could hear 
the foremoft of them, long before they came quite up^ 
caliirig to thofe behiixl to come along, and could alia 
hear them anfwer, and complain how Jame and tired 
they were, and not being able toccwne any faftcu, which. ' 
V as v^ry welcome hews to us* 

At length they came up to the boat ; but itis impo^blr 
to exrrcfs- their confufion,. when they found the bom^it 



fljo ADVENTURES OF 

a ground in the creek. The tide ebbed out, and tfacir 
two men gone ; we could hear them call to one another 
in a moll lamentable manner, telling one another they 
were gotten into an enchanted ifland ; that either there 
were inhabitants in it, and they fliould all be murder- 
ed ; or elfe there were deyils or fpirits in it, and they 
(hould be all carried away and devouied. 

They hallooed again, aud called their two comrades 
by their names a great many times, but no anfwer: 
after feme time, we could fee them, by the little light 
there was, run about wringing their hands, like men in 
defpair ; and that fometimes they would go and fit down 
in the boat to reft themfelves, then come aftiore, and 
walk about again, and fo the faitie thing over again. 

My men would fain have had me given them leave to 
fall upon them at once in the dark ; but I was willing to 
take them atfome advantage, fo to fpare them, and kill 
a^few of them as I could; and efpecially I was unwil- 
ling to hazard the killing any of our men, knowing the 
other were veiT well armed : I refolved to wait to fee 
if they did not (eparate ; and therefore, to make flire of 
them, I drew my ambufcade nearer ; and ordered Fri- 
day and the captain to creep upon their hands and feet 
as clofe to the ground as diey could, that they might 
not be difcovered, and get as near them as they could 
poffibly, before they offered to fire. 

They had not been long in that pofture, but that the 
boatfwain, who was the principal rmgleader of the niu- 
<iny, and had now fhewn hinrfelf the moft dejefted and 
difpirited of all the reft, came walking towards theni 
with two more of the crew ; thfe captain was fo eager, at 
having the principal rogue fo much in his power, that he 
could hardly have patieilce to let him come fc^ near as to 
be fure of him ; for they only heard his tongue before t . 
b>it when they came nearer, the captain and Friday^ 
jftarting up on their feet, let £y at them. 

The boatfwain was killed upon the fpot ; the next man 
was fhot into the body, aria feU juft by him, tho* he did 
not cHe till an hour or two after ; and the tliird run for it. 

At the noife of the .fire, I immedfetely advanced with, 
m^whole army, v/hich was now eight rrten ; viz. my* 
Ai|%Qxkralil&nw;>rFt\9d^Y my Ueutenaot-geaeral; tlU 



\ 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 2fr 

captain and his two men, and the tl^-ee prifoners of war, 
whom he had trufted with arms. 

We came upon them indeed in the dark, fo that they 
could not fee our number ; and I made the man they ha4 
left in the boat, who was now one of us, to call them bjf 
name, to try if I could bring them to a parley, and i(r 
might perhaps reduce them to terms ; which fell out juft 
as we defired : for uideed it ^as eafy to think, as their 
condition then was, they would be very willing to capitu- 
Jate ; fo he calk out, as loud as he could^ to one of them, 
Tom Smith," Tom Smith. Tom Smith anfwered inimcr 
diately. Who's that \ Robinfon 1 For it fceras he knew 
his voice. The other anfwered. Ay, ay ; for God's fake, 
Tom Smith, throw down your arms, and yield, or you 
ai*e all dead men this moment. 

Who muft we yield to ? Where are they ? feys Smith 
again. . Here they are, fays he ; here is our captain and 
fifty men with him, have been hunting you this two 
hours ; the boatfwain is killed ; Will Frye is wounded^ 
and I am a prifoner ; and if you do not yield, you arc 
all loft. 

Will they give us quarter then ? fays Tom Smith, and 
we will yield. 1*11 go and afk, if you promife to yield, 
fiys Robinfon. So he aflced the captam, and the cap- 
tatin himfelf then calls -out ; You, Smith, you know my 
voice, if you lay down your arms immediately, and fub* 
mit, you fhall have youi* lives, all but Will Atikins. 

Upon this Will Atkins cried out, For God's fake, cap- 
tain, give me quarter: .what have I done ? they hav^ 
been all as bad as I ; which by the way was not tru^ 
i^either ; for it feems tliis Will Atkins was the firfl maa 
that laid hold^of the captain when they, firft.mutined, 
and ufed him barbaroufty, in tying his hands, and giv- 
ing him injurious language ; however, the captain told 
him he muft lay down his arms at difcretion, and truft 
to the governor's Aiercy, by which he meant niej for 
Aey all called me governor^ 

In a Word, they til la^ down 'their arnia, and begged 
their livery and Ifent the man that had par lied' with 
them, and two more, who boimd them ail ; and then my 
peat army of fifty men, which, particularly with thofe 
Jdsuree, were all but eight, came uj^asuiibize^upoathenx 
L6 ^fik 



^ 



25a AD VENTURE S OF 

all, and upon thcif boat, only that I kept myfelf and 

one more out of fight, for reafons of ftate. 

Our next work was to repair the boat^ and to think 
of feizing the fliip ; and as tor the captain, now he had 
hifure to parley with them, he expoftiilated with them 
upon the villany of their pra(ftices with him, and at 
length, upon the farther wickednefs of their defign ; and 
how certainly it muft bring them to mifery and diftrefs 
in the end, and perhaps tp the gallows. 

They all app^afed very penitent, and begged hard for 
their lives : as for that, he told them they were none of 
his prifoners, but the commander's of the ifland ; that 
they thought they had fet him on fliore in a barren unin- 
t»abited ifland ; but it had pleafed God fo to dire6l them, 
that the ifland was inhabited, and that the governor was 
an Englifliman ; that he might hang them all there if he 
plealed ; but as he had given them all quarter, he fup* 
, pofed he would fend thcci to England, to be dealt withi 
there as juftice required, except Atkins, whom he was 
commanded by the governor to advife to prepare for 
death ; for that he would be hanged in tlie morning, ' 
N Though this was all a fi«5tion of his own, yet it had 
its defired effect : Atkins fell upon his knees to beg the 
captain to intercede with the governor for his life ; and 
all the reft begged of him for God*s fake, that they might 
not be fent to Eno;land. 

It now occurred to me, that the time of our deliver- 
ance was come, and that it would be a moft eafy thing 
to bring thefe fellows in to be hearty in getting pofl^f- 
fion of the fliip ; fo I retired in the dark from them, that 
they might not fee what kind of a governor they had, 
and called the captain to me ,v when 1 called, as at a 
good diftancc, one of the men was ordered to fpeak 
again^ and fay to the captain. Captain, the commander 
calls for you; and prefently the captain replied, Tell his. 
excellency I am ju ft a coming. This more perfe6i:]y 
amufcd them ; and they all believed, that the comman- 
der was j'lft by with his fifty men.' 

V'^.on the captain's coming to me, I told him my pra- 
jciftfor feizing the ftiip, which he liked of wonderfully 
well, and refolvcdtopiifit in execution the next mornino-. 

But iii (X d:er to exec^lt it. >j:itb. more 'art, and^ to bt 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. it^i 
lecure of fuccefs, T told him we muft divide the prifoh- 
ers> and that he (houldgo and take Atkins,' and two more 
of the worft of them, and fend them pinioned to the cave 
where the others lay : this was committed to Friday, and 
the two men who came on (hore with the captain. 

They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prifon ; and 
it was indeed a difmal place, efpecially to men in their 
condition. 

The other 1 ordered to my bower, as I calfed it, of 
which I have given a * full defcrlption ; and as it was 
fenced in, and they pinioned, the place was fecurc enough, 
confidering they were upon their behaviour. 

' To the^ in the m.orning I fent the captain, who was 
to enter into a parley with them ; in a v/ord, to try them, 
and tell me, whether he thought they might be trulled 
or no, to goon board, ^nd furprifp the fliip: he talked 
to them oi the injury done him, of the condition they 
were brought to ; and that though tlie governor had given 
then! quarter for their lives, as to the prefent aflion, yet 
that if they were fent to England, they would all be 
lianged in chains, to be fure ; but that if they would ^in 
in fuch an attempt, as to recover the ihip, he would have 
the governor's engagement for their pardon. -^ 

Any one may guefs how readily fuch a propcfal would 
be accepted by men in their condition; they fell down 
on their knees to the captain, and promiied with the 
deepefi: imprecations, that they would be faithful to him 
to the iaft drop,- and that they fhould owe their lives to 
him, and would go with him all over the world; that 
they would own him for a father to them as long as they 
lived. 

Wei], fays the captain, I muft go and tell the gover- 
nor what you fay, and fee what I can do to bring him to 
confent to it : fo he brought me an account of the tem- 
per he found them in ; and that he verily believed they 
would be faidiful. 

^- However, that we might be very fecure, I told him'he 
fhould go back again, and choofe out five of them, and 
tell- them, that they fhould fee that they did not want 
men ; but h'e would take cut ofthofe five to be his aTift- 
ant^, and that the governor would keep the other two, 
and the three- that were (cnt prifoners to tke calHc, (mv 

,si ^ le 



^54 ADVENTURES OF 

cave) as homages, for the fidelity of tbofe five ; and that 
if they proved unfaitnful in the execution, the five hof^ 
tages (hould be hanged in chains alive upon the (hore. 

This looked fevere, and convinced th am, that the go* 
vernor was in earned ; however, they had no wa^^^ 
them but to accept it ; and it was now the bufinefs of ffie 
prifoners, as much as of the captain, to perfuade the 
other five to do their duty. 

Our flrength was now thus ordered for the expedi- 
tion : I .-The captain, his mate, and paflenger. 2. Then 
the two prifoners of the firft gang, to whom, having their 
characters from the captain, I had given their liberty, 
and truAed them with arms. 3. The ^other two whc-n 
I kept till now in my bower pinioned ; but, upon- the 
captain's motion, had now releafed. 4. The/c five re- 
leafed^at laft ; fo that they were twelve in all, befide^ 
hve we kept prifoners in the cave for hoftages. 

I afked the captain if he was willing to venture wth 
thefe hands on board the (hip : for, as for me, and my 
man Friday, I did not think it was proper. for us to ftirj. 
having feven men left behind ; and it was employment 
enough for us to keep them afunder, ai^ fupply thenar 
with victuals. 

As to^hc five in the cave, I refolved to keep them 
faft ; but Friday went twice a day to them, to fupply^ 
them with necelTaries ; and I made the other two Cvirry 
provifions to a certain diilance, where Friday was to 
take it. 

When I (liewed myfelf to the two hoflagcs, it was 
with the captain, who told them, I was tiie perfon the 
' governor had ordered to look after them, and that it 
was the governor's pleafare that they Ihouldnot llirany 
where but by my dire6lion ; that if they did, they ihoul4 
be fetched into the callle, and he laid in tons ; fo that 
as we never foiFered them to fee me as governor, fo I 
now appeared to another perfon, and fpoke of the $»o»« 
vernor, the garrifon, the caftle, and the like, upon^aU 

OCCafiOllf, 

The captain now had no di;lLcu1ty before hhn, j^ut 
to furniih his two bor.ts, ftop the breach of om, and 
man them : he made lijis paJenger captain of otte, witH 
ibur other men ; and himielf, aod ills mate^ and hv^ 

t»ca:e. 



ROBINSON, CRUSOE. ^55 

more, went in the other : and they coi^rived their buft- 
nel's very well ; for they came up to the fhip aboat imdr 
night : as foon as they came within call of the Ihip, he 
made Robinfon hail them, and tell them he had brought 
ofFthe men and the boat, but that it was a long tim^ 
before they had found them, and the like ; holding them 
ia a chat, till they ^ame to the (hip's fide ; when the 
captain and the mate, entering firfl with their arms, ini- 
mediately knocked down the {econd mate and (iarpenter 
with the but end of their mufquets, being very faithfully 
feconded by their men ; they fecured all the reft that 
were upon the main and quarter decks, and began to 
faftcn the hatches to keep them down who were below^ 
when the other boat and their men, entering at the fore- 
Chains, fecured the forecaftle of the Ihip, and the fkuttle 
which went down into the cook-room, making three meri 
tliey found there prifoners. 

When this was done, and all fafe upon the deck, the 
captain ordered the mate with three men to break into 
the round-houfe, where the new rebel captain lay, and, 
having taken the alarm, was gotten up, and with two 
men and a boy had gotten fire arms in their hands ; and 
when the mate with a crow fplit open tlie door, the 
new captain and h is men fired boldly among them, ani 
wounded the mate with a .mufquet ball, which broke 
his arm, and wounded twQ more of the men, but killed 
nobody. 

- The mate, calling for help, rufhed, however, into the 
round-houfe, wounded as he was, and with his pillol 
ihot the new captain through the head, tlie bullets en- 
tering at his mouth, and came out again behind one of 
his ears ; fo that he nevek* fpoke.a word; upon which 
the reft yielded, and the fhip was taken eiFeftually, 
without any more lives loft. 

As foon as the ihip was thus fecured 5' the captain or- 
dered fe\'cn guns to be Ered, which was the fignal agreed 
upon with me, to give me notice of his fiicccfs ; which 
you may be fare 1 was very glad to hear, having fat 
watciiing upon the Ihorc for it, till near two of the clock 
in the morning. 

Having thus heard the fignal plainly, I hnl me down ; 
tad it laving beea a day of gieat fatigue to mp, I liept 

very 



1 



\2s(> ADVENTURES OF 

very (bund, till I was fomething furprifed with the noi(e 
of a gun ; and prefently ftarting op, I heard a man call 
'me by the name of governor, governor ; and prefently 
I knew the captain's voice, vAitn climbing up to the top 
of the hill, there he flood, and pointing to the Ihip, he 
embraced me in his arms ; My dear friend and deliverer, 
fays he, there's your (hip, for (he is all your's, and fo are 
we, and all that belong to her. I caft my eyes to the 
fhip, and there ftie rode within a little more than half a 
hiilc of the fhore ; for they had weighed her anchor as 
foon as they were mafters of her ; and the weather being 
fair, had brought her to an anchor juft againit the mouth 
of a little creek ; and the tide "bein^ up, the captain had 
brought the pinnace in near the place where I firfl landed 
my raft.s and fo landed juft at my door* 

I was, at firft, ready to fink down with the furprife t 
for I faw my deliverance indeed vifibly put into my handy, 
all things eafy, and a large (hip juft ready to carry me 
away whither I plcafed to go : at firft, for fome time, I 
was not able to anfwer one word ; but as he had taken 
me in his arms, I held fail by him, or I Ihould have 
fallen to the ground. 

He perceived the furprife, and immediately pulled a 
bottle out of his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial, 
which he had brought on purpofe for me : after I dranic 
it, i" fat down upon the ground, and though it brought 
me to myfelf, yet it was a good while befcre I could 
fpeak a word to him. 

•All this while the poor man was in as great an ec^ 
ftafy as I, only not under any furprife, as Iwas : and he 
fiid a thoufand kind tender things to me, to compofe 
and bring me to myfelf; hat fiich wis the flood of joy 
in my breaff, that it put all my fpirits into confufion ; at 
lail it broke into tears, and in a little while after Lie- 
covered my'fpecch. 

Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my de- 
liverer ; and we rejoiced together : I told him, I locked 
upon him as a mT;n fent from ho-iven to deliver me» 
and that the v/holc tranfaflicn {^jemed to be a chain 
of wonders ; that fuch things as thefe were the tef-. 
timonie.s we had of a fecret hand of Provideiace rro- 
YCJtiing the world, and an evidence^ that the eyes' of 

ant 



I 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 257 

an infinite power could fearch into the remote ft corner 
•of the world, and fend help to the miferable whenever 
he pleafed. 

I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulnefs to 
heaven ; and what heart could forbear to blefs him, 
who had not only in a miraculous manner provided fcr 
one in fuch a wildernefs, and in fuch a defolate condi- . 
tion, but from whom every deliverance muft t.lways be 
acknowledged to proceed ! 

When we had talked awhile, the captain told me, he 
-had brought me fome little refrefhments, fuch as .the 
ihip afforded, and fuch as the wretches,^ who had been 
fo long his mafters, had not plundered him of: upon 
this he called aloud to the boat, and bid his men bring 
the things afhore that were for the governor ; and indeed 
it' was a prefent, as if I had been one, not that was to be 
carried along with them, bat as if I had bsen to dwell 
upon the ifland ftill, and they were to go without me. 

Firft, he had brought me a cafe of bottles full of ex- 
cellent cordial waters, fix large bottles of Madeira wine ; 
the bottles held two quarts apiece ; two pounds of ex- 
cellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ihip'« 
beef, and fix pieces of pork, with a bag of peas, and 
about an hundred weight of bifcuit. 

He brought me alfo a box of fugar, a box of flour, a 
l)ag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice, and 
abundance of other things : but befides thefe, and what 
was a thoufand times more ufeful to me, he brought me 
fix clean new fhirts, fix very good neckcloths, two paif 
of gloves, one pair of fhoes, an hat, and one pair of 
ftockings, and a very good fuit of clothes of his ownj 
which had been worn but very little : in a word, h^ 
clothed me from head to foot. . » 

It was a very kind and agreeable prefent, as a»y one 
may imagine, to one in my circumflances ; but never was 
any thing in the world of that kind fo unpleafant, auk-*^ 
ward, and uneafy, as it wa^ to me to wear fuch clothes at 
their firfl putting on. -► 

After thefe ceremonies pafl, and after all his good 
things were brought into my little apartment, we began 
to confult what was to be done with. the prifoners we 
]iad ; for k was worth coniidemg whether we migh| 
r ..; " ventare* 



25« ADVENTURES OF ^ 

venture to take them away with us or no, efpecially tWQ 
of them, whom we knew to be incorrigible and refraor 
tory to the laft, degree; and the captin faid, he knew 
they were fuch rogues, that there.was no obliging them ; 
and if he did carry them away, it muft be in irons, as 
malefadors, to be delivered over to juftice at the firft 
> EngHfh colony he could come at ; and I found that the 
captain Mmfelfwas very anxious about it. ^ 

Upon this, I told him, that if he dcfired it, I durft under- 
take to bring the two men he fpoke of, to make it their own 
reqiieft that he fliould leave them upon theifland : I ftiould 
be very glad of that, fays the captain, with all my heart. 

Well, (aid I, I will fend for them, and talk with them 
for you : fo I caufed Friday and the »two hoftages, for 
they were now difcharged, their comrades having per- 
formed their promife ; I fay, I caufed them to go to tfle 
cave, and bring up the five nien, pinioned as they were> 
to the bower, and keep them there till I came. 

After fome time, I came thither drefTed in my new 
habit, and now I was called governor again. Being sdl 
met, and the captain with me, I caufed the men to be 
brought before me, and I told them, I had had a full ac- 
count of their villainous behaviour to the captain^ an4 
how they had run away with the {hip, and were prepare 
ing to commit farther robberies ; but that providence 
had enfnared them in their own v/ays, and that they were 
fallen into the pit which they had digged for others. 

I let them know, that by my diredion the (hip had 
been feized, that (he lay now in the road, and they might 
fce by and by, that -their new captain had received the 
rewaid of his villany ; for that they might fee him 
hanging at the yard-arm. ^ 

That as to thrm, I- wanted to know what they had to 
fay, why I fhould not execute them as parties taken in 
the faft, as by my com million they could not doubt I 
had authority to do. 

One of them arifwered In the name of the reft, that 
they ha<i nothing to fay but this. That wjien they were 
taken, the captam promifed them their lives, and they 
humbly implored my mercy : but I told them I knew 
not what mercy to (hew them ; for, as for myfelf, I had 
rcfolvcd to (fail ^ iflaad with. all my men* ami had 

taken 



ftORINSON CRUSOE. f^-^ 

taken paflkge with the captain to go for England : anda5 
for the captain, he could not carry them to England, 
other than as prisoners in irons to be tried for mutiny, 
and running away with the Ihip ; the confequence of 
which, they mull needs know, would be the gallows ; 
fo that I could not tell which was beft for them, unlefs^ 
they had a mind to take their fate in tlie ifland, if they 
defired that, I did not care, as I had liberty to leave it ; 
I had fome inclination to give them their fives, if they 
thought they could Ihift on fhore. They feemed very 
thankful for it ; faid they would much rather venture to 
ftay there, than to be carried to England to be hanged ;. 
£o I left it on that iflue. 

However, the captain feemed to make fome difficulty 
of it, as if he durft not leave them there : upon this I 
feemed a little angry with the captain, and told him, - 
that they were my prifoncrs, not his ; and that feeing I 
had offered them fo much favour, I would be as good as 
my word ; and that if he did not tliink fit to confent to 
k, I would fet them at liberty as I found them ; and if 
he did not like that, he might take them again, if he 
coifld catch them. ^ 

Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I ac- 
cordingly fet them at liberty, and bade them retire into 
the woods, to the place whence they came, and I woujld 
leave them fome fire-arms, fopie ammunition, and fome 
direftions how they ihoald live very well, if they 
thought fit. . ' 

Upon this, I prepared to go on board the (hip ; but told 
the captain, that I would ftay that night to prepare my 
things, and defired him to go on board in the mean time, 
and Keep all right in the (hip, and fend the boat on fhore 
the next day for me ; ordering him in the mean time, to 
caufc the new cjiptain who was killed, to be hanged at 
the yard-arm, that thefe men might fee hini. 

When the captain was gone, I fent for the men up tO' 
me to my apartment, and entered ferioufly into difcourfe 
with them of their circumf^ances : I told them, I thought 
they had made a right choice ; that if the captain carried 
them away, that would certainly be hanged ; I (hewed 
them their captain hanging at the yard-arm of the ftiip»' 
and told them they had nothing lefs to expedl. 



i6d ADVENTURES OF 

When they had all declared their willingness to flay, I 
told them, I would let them into the ilory of my living 
there, and put them into the way cf making it eafy to 
them : accordingly I gave them the whole hiilory of the. 
place, and of my coming to it ; (hewed them my forti*- 
fications, the way I made my bread, planted my corn, 
cured my grapes ; and in a word, all that was necefTary 
to make them eafy : I told them the flory alfo of the fix-. 
teen Spaniards that were to be expected ; for whom I 
left a letter, and made them promife to treat them in 
common with themfelves . 

I left them my fire-arms ; viz. five mufquets, thre6 
fowling-pieces, and three fwords i I had about a barrel 
of powder left ; for after the firit year or two I ufed but 
little> andwafled none : I gave them a defcription of the 
way I managed the goats, and diredions to milk and 
fatten them, to make both butter and cheefe. 

In a word, I gave tnem every part of my own flory ; 
and tgld them> I would prevail with the captain to leave, 
them two barrels of gunpowder more, and fome garden- 
feed, which I told them the bag of peas which the cap* 
tain had brought me to eat, and bade .them be fure ta 
fow and increafe them. 

Having done all this^ I left them the next day, and 
went on board the fhip: we prepared immediately to fail,- 
but did not weigh that night : the next morning early, 
two of the five men came fwimming to- tlie (hip's fide^ 
and, making a moft lamentable complaint of the other 
three, begged to be taken into the fhip, for God's fake, 
for they (hould be murdered ; and begged the captain to- 
take them on board, tho' lie hanged them immediately. 

Upon this thecaj)tain pretended to have no power with- 
out me ; but after fome difficulty, and after their foltema 
promife of amendment, they were taken on board, and 
were fome time after foundly whipped and pickled ; after 
which they proved very honeft and quiet fellows# 

Some time after this, I went with the boat on fhore* 
the tide being up, with the things promifed to the 
men, to which the, captain, at my interceffion, caufed 
their chefts and clothes to be; added, which they took, 
and were very thankful for : 1 alfo encouraged them, by 

telling 



ROBIHSON CRUSOE. 261 

telling them, that if it lay in my way to fend a vefTel to 
take them in, 1 would not forget them. 

When I took leave of this ifland, I carried on board 
for reliques the great goat's fkin cap I had made, my 
umbrella, and one of my parrots ; alfo I forgot not to 
take the money I formerly mentioned, which had laiii 
by me fo long ufelefs, that it was grown rufty, or tar- 
niflied, and could hardily pafs for filver, till it hid been 
a little rubbed and handled ; and alfo the money I found 
in the wreck of the Spanifh fnip. 

And thus I left the ifland the nineteenth of December, 
as I found by the Ihip's account, in the year 1686, after I 
had been upon it eight and t^^'enty yt^ars, two months, 
and nineteen days ; being delivered from the fecond cap- 
tivity the fame day of the month that I fir ft made my 
efcape in the Barco-langc, from among the Moors of 
Sallee. . ^ 

In this vefTel, after a long voyage, I arnved.in Eng- 
land the eleventh of June, in tlie year 1687, having 
been thirty and five years abfent. 

When 1 came to England, I was a perfedl flranger to 
all the world, as if I had never been k:.own there : my 
benefaftor, and faithful fleward, whom I had left ii 
truft with m.y money, was alive, but had had great mif- 
fortunes in the world, was become a widow the fecond 
time, and very low in the world : I mide her eafy as to 
what fhe owed me, afTuring her, I would give her no 
trouble ; but on the contrary, in gratitude to her for- 
, mer care and faithfulnefs to me, 1 relieved her as my 
little ftock would afford, which at that time would in- 
deed allow me to do but little for her ; but I aflured her, 
I would never forget hef former kindnefs to^me j nor did 
I forget her, when I had fuxhcient to help^er ; as fhall 
be obferved in its place. 

. I went dovvn^afterwards into Yorkfliire ; but my father 
was dead, and my mother, and all the family extia6l ; 
except that I found two fillers, and two of the children 
of one of my brothers : and as I had been long ago given 
over for dead, there had been no provifion made for me, 
fo that, in a word, I found nothing to reli':ve or aflill 
roe ; and that little money 1 had, would not do fo much' 
for me, as to fettling in the world. 



zSn ADVENTURES OF 

I met with one piece of gratude indeed, which I did 
not cxpcdil ; and this was, that the mailer of the (hip> 
whom I had fo happily delivered, and by the fame means 
^ved the (hip ana cargo, having given a very ^landfome 
account to the owners, of the manner how I had faved 
the lives cff the men,^ and the Ihip, they invited me to 
meet them, and fome other mercliants concerned, and 
all together made me a very handfome compliment upon 
that i^bjed, and a prefent of almoft two hundred pounds 
fterling. 

But after making feveral refledlions upon the circum- 
ftanccs of my life, ^nd how litile way tm would go to* 
ward fettling me in the world, I refolved to go to Lilbon, 
and fee if I might not come by fome information of the 
Hate in my plantation in the Brafds, and what was be*^ 
come of my partner, who, I had reafon to fuppofe, had 
fome years now given me over for dead. 

With this view I took (hipping for Lifbon, where I ar- 
rived in April following ; my man Friday accompanying 
me very honellly in an thefe ramblings> and proving a 
mofl: f^thful fervant upon all occafions. 

When I came to Li(bon, I found out by enquiry, and 
to my particular fatisfa^ion, my old friend the captain 
of the (hip, who firft took me up at fea, off the (hore of 
Africa ; he was now grown old, and had left off the 
fca, having put his fon, who was far from a.young man, 
into his (hip; and who (Ull ufed the Bralil trade. The 
old man did not know me, and, indeed, I hardly knew 
him ; but I foon brought myfelf to his remembrance, 
when I told him who I was. 

After fome paffionate exprcdions of our old acquaint- 
ance, I enquired, you may be fure, after my plantation, 
and my pL'*'.ier : the old man told me, he had not 
been in the Brafils for about nine years ; but that he 
could alTure me, that when he came away, my partner 
was living ; but the truftees, whom I had joine^J with him 
to take cognizance of my part, were both (fead ; that, 
however, he believed that I would have a very good 
account of the improvement of the plantation ; for 
that, upon the general belief of my being call away and 
drowned, my truftees had given in the account of the 
produce of my part of the plantations, to the procutor 

Fifcal i^ 



V . -R OB IN SQN CRUSOE: 263 

I Fifcal ; who had appropriated it, in cafe I never came to 

J claim it, one third to the King, and two thirds to the 

i monaftery of St. Aagulline, to be expended for the benefit 

I of the poor, and for the converfion of the Indians to the 

; Catholic faith ; but that if I appeared, or any one for me, 

to claim the inheritance, it would be reftored ; only that 

the improvement, or annual produtlion, being dillributed 

to charitable ufes, could not be reftored ; but he affured 

me, that the fteward of the king's revenue (from lands) 

and the provedore, or fteward of the monaftery, had 

taken great care all along, diat the incumbent, that is 

to fay, my partner, gave every year a faithful account of 

. the^produce, of which they received duly my moiety. 

I afked him, if he knew to what height of improve-* 
ment he had brought the plantation ; and whether hs 
thought it might be worth looking after : or whether^ ^ 
on my going thither, I fhould meet with no obftruftion 
to my poffcirmg my juft right in the moiety., 

He told me, he could not tell exadly to what degree 
s the plantation was improved : but this he knew, that my 
partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoying but 
one half of it; and that, to the beft of his remembrance 
he had he'ard, that the king's third of my part, which 
was, it feems, granted away to fome other monaftery, 
Or religious houfe, amounted to above two hundred 
moidores a year ; that, as to my being reftored to a 
' quiet pofleiSon of it, there was no queftion to be made 
of that, my partner bebig alive towitnefs my title, and 
my name being alfo inrolled in the regifter of the country; 
i Alfo he told me, that the furvivors of my two truftees- 
were very fair honeft people, and very wealthy, and he 
believed I would not only have their aftiftance for put- 
ting me in pofreirion> but would find a very confider^ble 
fum of money in their hands, for my account, being the 
produce of the fiUrm, while their fathers held the truft^ 
and before it was given up, as above, whi^h, as he re- 
membered, was about twelve years. 

I flicwed myfelf a little concerned and uneafy at this 
account, and enquired of the old captain, how it came 
to pafs, tliat tlxe truHees fhould thusdifpofe of my efFe<fl8, 
when he knew, that I had made my will, and had made 
him, the Fortugucfe captain, my unlvcrfal heir, &c« 

He 



264 AD VENTURES O F ' 

He told me^ that was true ; but that, as there was no 
proof of my being dead, he could not aft as executor, 
until fome certain account fhould come of my death ; 
and that, T^efides, he was not willing to intermeddle with 
a thing fo remote : that it was true, he had regiftered my 
will, and put in his claim ; and could he have given 
ajiy account of my being dead or alive, he would have 
adled by procuration, and taken pofleffion of the ingenio 
(fo they called the fugar-houfe) and had given his fon, 
who was now atthe Brafils, order to do it. 

But, fays the old man, I have one piece of news to 
tell you, which perhaps may not be fo acceptable to you 
as the reft ; and that is, that believing you were loft, and 
all the world believing fo alfo, your partner and truftees 
did offer to account to me in your ^jame, for, fix or eight 
ofthefirft years of profit, which I received; but there 
being at that time, fays he, great diiburfements for in- 
creasing the works, building an ingenio, and buying 
Haves, it did not amount to near fomuch as- afterwards 
it produced : however, fays tlie old man, I Ihall give 
you a true account of what I have received in all, and. 
how I have difpofed of it. 

After a few days farther conference with this antient 
friend, he brought me an account of. the fLx firll years 
income of my plantation, iigned by my partner, and the 
5p.erchant's truHees, being always delivered in goods ; 
viz. tobacco in roll, and fugar in cheib, befides rnm, 
melalies, &c. which is the confequence of a fugar-v/ork ; 
and I found by this account, that every year the income 
confiderably increafed : but, as above, the dilburfement 
being large, the fum at faft was fmall : however, the 
old man let me fee, that he was debtor to me 47,0 moi- 
dores of gold, befides 90 cheiis fo fugar, and 15 double 
rolls of tobacco, which -were loll in his fliip, he hav- 
ing been fhipvvreckcd coming home to Liibon, about 
eleven yea To after my leaving the place. 

The good man then began to complain of his mif for- 
tunes, and how he had been obliged to make ufe of my 
money to recover his loffes, and buy him a filare in a 
nev/ Ihip : however, my old' friend, fays he', you fnall 
not want a fupply in your neeefaty ; and as foon as my 
fon returns, _you Ihall be fully fatisfied. 

Upon 



; ROBINSON CRUSOE. 265 

j , Uf)on this- he pulls, out an old pouch, and gives me two 

hundred Portugal moidores in gold ; and giving me the 

1 writings of his title to the (hip which his fon was gone to 

L the Brafils in, of which he was a quarter part owner, and 

■ his fon another, he put them both in my hands for fecu- 
I rityof the reft. 

f '■ I was too much moved with the honefty and kindnefs 

i; ef the poor man to be able to bear this ; and remem- 

1* bering what he had done for me, how he had taken me 

' up at fea, and how generoufly he had ufed me on all oc- 

■ ^ cafions, and particularly how fincere a friend he^was 
-■i now to me/ I could hardly refrain weeping at what he 

ikid to me : Therefore firft I ^ed him if his circum- 
Hancfts admitted him to fpare fo much money at that 
time, and if it would not llreighten him ? He told me 
he could not fay but it might ftreighten him a little ; 
but, however, it wa« my money, and I might want it 
more than he, 

Every thing the good man faid was full of affedtion, 

andl could hardly refrain from tears while he fpoke. In 

Ihort, I took one hundred of the moidores, and called for 

a pen and ink to give him a receipt for them; then I 

returned him the reft, and told him, if ever I had pofTefllon 

of the plantation, I would return the other to him alfo, 

as indeed I afterwards did ; and that, as to the bill of 

fale of his part ih his fon's ftiip, I would not take it by 

any means ; but that if I wanted the money, I found he 

was honeft enough to pay me ; and if I . did not, but 

came to receive what he gave me reafon to expedj I would 

never have a penny more from him. 

L ^ Wh^n this was paffed, the old man began to alk me, 

I if he ftiould put me in. a method to make my claim to 

my plantation. I told him,- 1 thought to go over to It 

I myfelf ? He faid I might do fo if I pleafed ; but that if I 

4 did not, there were ways enough to fecure my right, 

|i and immediately to appropriate the profits to my ufe ; knd 

'f as there were ftiips in the river of Lilbon, juft ready to go 

< away to Brafil, lie made me enter my name in a public 

regifter,. with his affidavit, affirming upon oath that 

, I was r alive, an^ that I was the fame perfon who- 

took up the land for the planting of the faid plantation 

at firft. 

Vol. I. M '^^SJ.^ 



a66 ADVENTURES OF 

This being regularly attefted by a notary, and a pio^ 
curadop aifix'd, he direded me to fend it with a letter q( 
his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance at the 
place ; and then propoTed my Haying with him till an ac- 
count came of the return. 

Never any thing was more honourable than the pro- 
ceedings upon this procuration ; for in lefs than feven 
months I receiv'd a large packet from the furvivofs <# 
my truftees, the merchants, for whoCc account I went 
to fea, in which were tl^e following particular letters and 
papers inclcfed. 

Firft, There was the account Current of the produce 
of my farm, or plantaticH), from the year when their 
fathers had balanced with my old Portugal captain/ be- 
ing for fix years; the balance appeared to be 1174 
moidores in my favour. 

Secondly, There was the account of four years moi^ 
while they kept the effects in their hands, before the" 
government claimed the adminiflration, as being the 
ciFefts of a perfon not to be found, which they call Ci- 
vil Death ; and the balance of this, the value of the 
plantation increaitng, amounted to cruiladoes, which 
made 3241 moidores. 

Thirdly, There was the prior of the Auguftines ac- 
count, who had received the profits for above fourteen 
years ; but pot being able to account for what was diA 
pofed to the hofpital, very honeftly declared he had 8^72 
moidores not diftributed, which he ^tlfnowledged t^ 
my, account : As to the king's part, that refunded 
nothing. 

There was alfb a letter of my partner's, congratulating , 
me very affeftionately upon my being alive ; giving me -^ 
an account how the eftate was improved, and what itjt 
produced a year, with a particular of the numbct rf^ 
fqiiares or acres that it contained ; how planted, Ko\ 
many flaves there were upon it; and making two | 
twenty crofTes for bleflings, iold me, he had: fe" ' 
many Aye Maria's to thank the BlefTed VirgWI 
was alive ; inviting me very pailionately to coino 
and take pofTeffion of my own, and In t^e mean tl 
to give him orders to whom, he fhould deliver " 
effects^ if I did iK)t come myfelf; concluding with 



hearty tender of his friendfhip, and that of his fami- 
ly ; and (ent me» as a preient, {even fine leopards fkins, 
which he had, it feems, received from Africa fey fomc 
other fhip which he had fent thither, ^and who, it 
ieems, had made a better voyage than I : He fent 
me aifo five cheils of excellent fweetmeats, and an 
hundred pieces of gold uncoinedr, not quite fo large as 
«inoidores. 

By the fame fleet my merchant-trullees fhipp'd me 
1 200 chefts of fugar, 800 rolls of tobacco, and the reft 
of the whole account in gold. 

I might well fey now, indeed, that the latter end of 
Job was better than the beginning : It is impoflible to 
cxprefs the flutterings of my very heart, v.t.en I looked 
over thcfe letters, and efpecially when I found all my 
wealth about me ; for as the Brafil (hips come all in 
fleets, the fame ihips which brought my letters brouglit 
my goodr; and the effeds were fate in the Tagus before 
the letter came to my hand : in a word, I turn*d pale, 
and grew fick ; and had not the old man ran and fetch'd 
. me a cordial, I believe the fadden furprize of joy had 
overfet natupe, and I had died upon the fp6t. 

Nay, after that, I continued very ill, and was fo fome 
hours, till a phy fician being fent for, and fomething of 
the real caufc of my illnels being known, he ordered 
me to be let Wood, after which I had relic :", and grew 
well ; but 1 verily believe, if it had not been eafed by 
"•the vent given in that manner to the , fpirits, I fhould 
have died* 

I was now mailer, all on afudden, of above 50,000!* 
ilerling in money, and had an eftate, as I might well 
' call it, in the Braiils, of above a thoufaiid pounds a 
year, as fure as an eftate of lands in England ; and, in 
a word, I was in a condition which I fcarce knew how 
to iinderlland, or how to compofe myfelf for the enjoy- 
Itoitof. ^ 
*' The firft thing I did, was to recompenfe my original 

^iia^op, my good old captain, who had been firft 

able to me in my diftrcfs, kind to me in the be- 

^^,and honeft to me at the end : I (hewed him 

was fent me j I told him, that, next to the 

M 2 ^. pro- 




providence of heaven, which difpofes all things, it was 
owing to him ; and that it now lay on me to reward him, 
which I would do an hundred fold; So I firil returned, to 
him the hundred moidores I had received of him ; then 
1 fent for a notary, and caufed him to draw up a gene- 
ral releafc or difcharge for the 470 moidores, which he 
had acknowledged he owed me, in the fulleft and firmeft 
manner pofiible ; after which, I caufed a procuration to 
be drawn, impowering him to be my receiver of the 
annual profits of my plantation, and appointing my 
partner to account to him,' and make the returns by - 
the ufual fleets to him in my name : and a claufe in 
the end, being a grant of 100 mpidbres a year to him 
during his l^e, out of the efteds ; and 50 moidores a 
year to his fon after him, for his life : And thus . I re- 
quited my old man. 

1 was now to confider which way to Jleer my courfe 
jiext, and what to do with the eftate that Providence 
had thus put into my hands ; and, indeed, I had more 
care upon my head now than I had in my fileot ilate 
of life in the ifland, where I wanted nothing but what 
1 had, and had nothing but what I wanted ; whereas I 
had now a great charge upon me, and my bufmefs was 
how to fecure it : I had never cave to hide my money 
in, or a place where it might lie without lock or key 
till it grew mouldy and tarnilhed before any body w;ould 
meddle with it : On the. contrary^ I knew not where to. 
put it, or whom to trull with -it ; 'my old patron, the 
captain, indeed, was honeft, and that was the only re- 
ruge I had. 

In the next place, my intereil in the Brafils feem'd to 
fummon me thither ; but now I could not tell how to 
think of going thither" till I had fettled my aflFairs, and 
left my e&fts in feme fafe han4s behind me : At firft I 
thought of my old friend the widow, who I knew was 
honeil, and would be juft to me ; but then Ihe was in, 
years, and but poor, and, for aught I knew,' ipight be 
in debt ; fo that, in a word, I had no way but to go back 
to England myfelf, and take my efFefls with me. 

I was fome months, however, before I refolvedupon 
this ; and therefore as I had revVarded the old captain 

■fully. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 269 

fully, and to fatisfa(flion, who had been my fornier 
benefaflor, fo I began to think of my poor widow, whofd 
^ufband had been my firft benefaftor, and Ihe, while it 
was in her power, my faithful lie ward and ir/lrufbor : 
So the firft thing I did, I got a merch«ant in Lifbon to 
write to his correfpondent in London, not only to pay 
a Bill, but to go find her out, and carry her in money 
an hundred pounds from me, and to talk with her, .and 
comfort her in her poverty, by telling her, ihe fhould, if 
I liv'd, have a farther fupply: At the fame. time, 1 fent 
my two fifters in the country, each of them, an hundred 
pounds, they being, though not in want, yet not in 
very good circumllances ; one having beeifi married and 
left a widow^ and the other having an hulband not ia 
kind to her as he fhould be. 

But among all my relations or acquaintances I could^ 
not yet pitch upon one, to v/hom I durft commjt the, 
grofe of my flock, that I might go away t6 the Bxafils, 
and leave things fafe behind me : and this greatly per- 
plexed me. 

I had once a mind to have gone to the Brafrls, and have 
fettled my felf there ; for I was, as it were, naturalized 
to the place ; but I had feme little fcruple in my mind 
about religion, which infenfibly drew me back, of wkich. 
I fhall fay more prefently. However, it was not religion 
that kept me from going thither for the prefcnt ; and as 
I had mad«. no fcruple of being openly of the religion of 
the country, all the while I was among them, fo neither 
did 1 ypt ;. only that now and then having of late thought 
more of it than formerly, when I began to think of. liv- 
ing and dying among them, I bfegan to regret my hav- 
ing profefs'd my felf a papill, and thought it might not 
be the beil religion to die in. 

But, as I have faid, this was not the main thing that kept 
me from going to the Brafils, but that really I did not 
know with whom to leave my efFedls behind me ; fo I re-' - 
folv*d at Ia(l to go to England with them, where, if I ar- 
riv'd, I concluded 1 fliould make fome acquaintance, or 
find lome reldtions,. that would be faithful to me ; and ac- 
cordingly I prepar'd to go for England with all my wealth. 

In order to prepare things for my going home, I firfl 
(jhe Brafil fleet being jufl going away) refolved to f^ve 



tjo ADVENTURES OF 

anfwers ftritable to the jull and feithful account of 
things I had from thence j and firft to the prior of St. 
Augu(Mnc I wrote a letter fnll of thanks for his juft 
^ealings^ and the offer of the 872 moidores, which was 
nndifpofed of, which I defired might be given, ijoo to 
the monaftery, and 3 7a to the poor, as the prior fhould 
dire^ defiring the good Padres prayers for me, and the" 
like. 

I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two tniftces^ 
with all the acknowledghierit thai fo much juftice and. 
honefty called for; as for fending them any prefient, 
tbey were far above having any ciccafion of it. 

Lailly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his in* 
4hiftry in the improving the plantation^ aiKl his inte- 
rrity in incrcafing the flock of the works, giving him 
iuii^ions for his future government of mf part, ac- 
cording to the powers I had left with my old patron, to 
whom I defired him to fend whatever become due t^ 
me, tiU he ihouid hear from me more particulaply ; af- 
fiiring him, that it was my intention^ not only to come, 
to him, but to fettle myfelf there for the remainder of 
my life : To this I added a very handfome prefent ot 
fome haliati filks for his wife and two daughters, for 
fbcK the a^ptain's fon infomiM me he had ; with tvyo 
|)iecct of fine fingliifh broad-cloth, the beft I could get 
in Lifbon, five pieces of black bays, and fome Flanders 
hce of a good value. 

Having thus fettled my aflfeirs, fold my cargo, and 
turnM all my effc£^s into good bills of exchange, my 
next difficuhy was, wh!ch way to go to England : I had 
been accuflomcd enough, to the fea, and yet I had a 
ftrange averlion to go to England by fea at that time { 
and though I could give no reafon for it, yet the diffi- 
eulty incre&^d upon me fo much, that though I had 
Once fhipp d my baggage in order to go, yet I alter 'd 
my jtiind, and that not oiKe, but two or three times. 

It is true, I had been very unfortunate by fea, and 
this might, be one* of the reafons : But Jet no man 
flight the flroiig impulfes of his own thoughts in cafes 
of fuch moment : Two of the fhips which 1 had fingled 
out to go in, I mean, more particularly fingled out thaa 
axi/ other, that is to fay > fo aa Va oi* <i Vcvttrw 10 ^ut nay 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 271 

tilings on board, and in the other to have agreed with 
the captain; I fay, two of thefe (hips mifcarried^ viz. 
Oflc was taken by the Algerines^ und the other was caft 
. away on the Start, near Torbay, and atl the pw^le 
drowned except three 5 fd that in cither of thofe veffels % 
had been made miferable, and in which moft, it was 
hard to fay. 

Having been thus hairaOed in my thought^, my old 
pilot, to whoEQ I communicated every thing, preffed me 
earneftly not to go to fea ; but either to goby land to 
the Groyne, and crofs over the bay of Biibay to Rochelle, 
from whence it was bat an e^y and iiife joumoy by kind 
to Paris, and fo tb Calais ard Dbver; or to go np to 
Madrid, and lb all the Way by land thrmigh Pran«(. 

In a word, I was fo prepoflfefled againft my goine by 
*a at all, except from Calais lo Dover, that I relblvea 
to travel all the way by land ; wdikh, as I wat tux ih 
hafte, and did not valne i^e diarge, was^ by much t^ 
oieafanter Way ; and to make it more (b, my cdd capudU 
brought an Engliih gentleman, the ton of a nieidiaift 
in Liibon, who Was Willing to, travel widi md : after 
which, we picked up two who were Englifli and mer- 
chants atfo, and two young Fortuguefe ^;enttemen, ihfc 
}^t going to Paris only ; fo that we were in all fix of us^ 
and five fervants, the two merchants, and the two Pcrttt- 
guefe, contenting themCelves with one (ervaot betweea 
two, to fave the chai^« ; aivi as for me, I ^ot an £ng^ 
lifh failor tb travd with me as a fervatit, beftdes my man 
Friday, who was too much a ft ranger to be capable of 
fupplying the j^ace of a fervant upon the road. 

In this manner I fet out for Liibon : and our ccnnpa* 
ny being all very well mounted and armed, we made a 
little troop, whereof they did me the honour to call me 
captain, as well becaufi^ I was the oldell man, at be- 
caufe I had two fen'ants. and, indeed, was the original 
of the whole journey. 

As I have troubled you with none of my fea journals^ 
ib (hall I trouble you with none of my land journal : but 
fome adveutures that happened to us in this tedioUs and 
^illicult journqy, I muft not omit. 

When we ^ame to Madrid, we, being all of us ftran* 
gers to Spain^ were willing to ftay (bme tinie to fee the 



272 ADVENTURES OF 

court of .Spain, and to fee what was worth obferving; 
but it being the latter part of the fummer, we haliened 
a)vay9 and fet out from Madrid about the middle of Oc-^ 
tober : but when we , came to the edge of Navarre, we 
were alarmed at feveral towns on the way, with an ac- 
count that fo much (how was fallen on the French fidaof 
the mountains, that feveral travellers were obliged to 
come back to Fampeluna, after having attempted, at an 
extreme hassard, to pafs on. . 

When we came to Fampeluna itfelf, we found it fo in- 
deed ; and to me that had been always ufed to an hot 
climate, and indeed to countries where we could fcarce 
.bear any clothes on, the cold was unfufferable ; nor, 
indeed, was it more plentiful than it was furprifing, to 
•come but ten days before out of the Old Caftile, ^ere 
.the weather was not only warm, but very hot, and im- 
mediately to feel a wind from the Pyrenean mountains, 
•fo very keen, fo feverely cold, as to be intolerable, and 
to endanger benumbing and periflaing of our fingers and 
toes, was very ilrange. 

• Poor Friday was really frighted when he faw the 
mountains all covered with fnow, and felt cold weather> 
whi^ he had never feen or felt before in his life. 

To mend the matter, after we came to Fampeluna, 
it continued fuowing with fo much violence, and fo long, 
that the people faid, winter was come before its time,^ 
and the roacjs which were difficult before, were now 
quite impafi'able ; in a word, the fnow lay in fome 
places top thick for us to travel ; and being not hard 
frozen, as is the cafe in tiorthern countries, there .was no 
going without bqing in danger of being buried alive 
every ftep : we ftaid no lefs then twenty days at Pampe- 
luna ; when (feeing the winter coming on* and no like- 
lihood of its being jbetter, for it^ was the fevereft winter 
all over Europe that had been known in many years) 
I propofed that we fhould all go away |o Fontarabia, 
and there taking fhipping for Bourde;aux, which was a 
very little voyage: I 

But while we were confidering this, there came, in 

four French gentlemen, who, having been flopped on th^ 

French fide of the pafTes, as we were on the Spaniih, had 

found out a guide, who, traverfing the country near the 



R O B I N S O N C R U S O E. 273 

head of Languedoc, had brought them over the moun- 
tains by fuch ways, that they were not much incommoded 
with the fnow ; and where they met with fnow in any ^ 
quantity, they faid it was frozen hard enough to bear 
mem and their horfes. 

We Tent for this guide, who told us, he would under- 
take to carry us the fame way, with no hazard from the 
fnow, provided we were armed fufHciently to proteii us 
from wild .bealls; for, he faid, upon thefe great fnows, 
it was frequent for fome wolves to Ihew themfelves at the. 
foot of the mountains, being made ravenous for want of 
food, the ground being covered with fnow : we told hini 
we were well enough prepared for fuch creatures as they 
were, if he would infure us from a kind of two legged 
w^olvcs^ which we were told we v^re in moft danger 
from, efpecially on the, French fide of the mountains. 

He.fatisfied us there was no danger of that kind in th^ 
way that we were to go : fo we readily agreed to follow 
him; as did alfo twelve other gentlemen, with their 
fervants, fome French, fome Spanifti, who, as I faid, 
had attempted to go, and were obliged to come bacl-c 
'again, --• 

Accordingly "we all fet out from Pampeluna, with our 
guide, on the fifteenth of November; and indeed^ I 
was furprifed, when, inHead of going forward, he cime 
diredlly back with us, on the fame road that we came 
from Madrid, above twenty miles ; when having paffcd 
t^yo rivers, and come into the plain country, we found 
ourfclves in a warm climate again, v/here the country was 
pleafant, and no fnow to be feen ; but on a fuJdcn, turn*- 
ing to the left, he approached the mountains anotliear 
way; and thougli it is true, the hills and the precipices 
looked dreadfully, yet he made fo many tours, fuch 
meanders, and led us by fuch winding ways, we infen- 
fibly paficd the height of the moontains, without beinr 
much iacumbergd with the fnow ; and all on a fudden 
lie (licwed us the pleafant fruitful provinces of Langue- 
doc and Gafcoigne, all green and ilburilhing ; thou<»h 
indeed they were at a great dif£ance> and we had foW 
rough way 10 pais yet. 

We were ahule ur^cafy however, V/hcn v^e found >:: 
fno wed one whole day and^a ^ight, ig fail, ij-a^ v*^ 



fl7+ ADVENTURES OF 

could not travel ; but he bid us be eafy, we ihould foon 
be paft it alj : we found, indeed, that we began to de- 
ice nd every day, and to come more north tlmn before j 
and (o, depending upon our guide, we went on* 

It wat ODouc two hours before night, when o«r guide 
being ibinething before us, and not juft in iight, out 
ruihed three monfhroas wolves> and after them a- bear; 
out of an hoQow way, adjoining to a thick wood ; two oF 
the wolves flew upon the guide, and had ^e been halt A 
mile before us, he had been devoured indeed, before we 
could have helped him : one o£ them fattened upon his. 
horfe, and the other attacked the man with that violence^ 
that he had not time, or not prefence of mind enough^ 
tQ draw his piflol, but hallooed and cried out to us moft 
luflily ; my man Friday being next to me, I bid hkn ride 
up, and fee what was the matter : as foon as Friday came 
in figlit of the man, he halloaed, as loud as t'other, O 
matter \ O matter I But like a bold fellow, rode direftly 
up to the man, and with his pittol (hot the wolf that at- 
Ucked him into the head. 

It was happy for the poor man that it was my man* 
Friday ; for he, having been ufed to that kind of crea-. 
ture in Ms country, had no fear upon him, but went 
clofe up to bim, and ibot him, as above ; whereas any 
of us would have fired at a farther diftance, and have- 
perhaps either mifled the wolf> or endangered ttiotting 
ihe Joan. 

But it was enough to have tenifiedi a bolder man thait 
I, and indeed it alarmed all our companj, when, with 
the noife of Friday's pittol, we heard on both fides the 
Afmalleft bowlings pf wsolves, and the noife redoubled'^ 
by the echo of the mountains that it was to us as- if there 
liad been a prodigious multitude of thenrni and' perhaps, 
indeed there was not filch a few,, as that we had no cainb: 
•f ap{H'ehen£oi>5. 

However, as Friday had kilFed this j^'olf, the otherr 
iJi^t had fhfttened upon the horfe, left him immedbtely,- 
and fled, hayyig happily fattened upon his head,, where- 
4le bofles of the bridle had ftcick i» his teeth^fo that 
he* had not daac l^ much, hurt r the man, indeed, was 
mott hurt rfor the raging creature had bit him twice^ 
fz^ctf 00 the aiin, si&d U>c other, time a little above hi s^ 



ftOBlirsON CRUSOE. iji 

&Tlee ; and he was juft as it were tumbling down by the 
diibrder of the horie^ when Friday came up, and (hot 
^e wolf. 

It is cafy to fiij^fe, that at the noife of Faidry's pif- 
to\ we all mended our pace, and rid up as faft as the 
way (which was voy di£icult) would give us leave, to 
fee what was the matter : as foon as we came clear of the 
trees, which blinded us before, we fki^ plainly what had 
been the cafe, and how Friday had difengaged the poor 
guide; though we did not pretently difcem what kindoF 
creature it was he had killed. 

But never was a fight managed (b hardily^ and in (^ch 
a furprifing manner, as that which followed betweea 
Friday and the bear, which gave us all (though at iiril 
we were furprifed and afraid for him) the greateft di- 
verfion iaiaginable i as the bear is an heavy, clumfy 
creature, and does not gallop as the wolf does, which is. 
fwift and light ; fo he has two particular qualities, which 
generally are the rule of his anions ; fxrft» as tcJ men» 
who are not his proper prey, I iay BOt his proper prey, 
becaufe, though I can't fay what exceffive hunger might 
do, which was now their cafe» the ground being all co- 
verea with fnow ; yet as to men, he does not uiually at^^ 
tempt them^ unle&they iirft attack him t on the contra^ 
ry, if you meet him in the woods, if you doni't meddlet 
with him, he won*t meddle with you ; yet then you nmSt 
take care to be very civil to him> and give him die road ; 
for he is a very jiice gentleman, he wont go aftepkout 
of tlie way for a prince; nay, if you are really a&aid> 
your belt way ia to Jook^ anothcf way, and keep^ f oin|^ 
on; for fometimes,. if you flop, and ftandf iUlf, andlooc 
iledfailly at him, he takes it for a» affront; and if yoi* 
throw or tofs any tiling at him,, and* it hits him, though 
it were but a bit of ilidc as big, as your finger^ he takes it 
for an affront, and lets all other bu^els. aide to purfue 
his revenge ; for he will havefetisfaddon iit point of ho-^ 
»our, and this is his firft qualit)' t the nsxt is, that ii he 
be once affronted, he will never leave you night or datf^ 
till he has his revenge,, but follow al a goodxouad rate 
till he overtakesi you* 

My man Friday had (h?livered ourgtiide, and when we. 
caove up tahim^ he wai h^lpinfir him off* from hi^horfe ; 



^6 ADVENTURES OP* 

for the man was both hart and frighted, and indeed th<^ 
laft more vhan the firft; when, on a fudden we efpyed 
the btar come out of the wood, and a very monftrons oner 
k was, the bi^gell by far that ever I faw : we were all 
a little furprifed when we faw him^ but when Friday 
faw him, Jt was eafy to fee joy and courage in the fet^ 
low's countenance : O I O I O ! fays Friday, three.times, 
pointing to him, O matter 1 you give me te leave, me 
Ihakce te hand with him, me makee you good laugh. 

I was furprifed to fee the fellow fo pleafed : You fool, 
you, faid I, he will eat you up. Eatee me up ! eatee me 
up ! fays Friday, twice over again ; me eatee him up : 
me makee you good laugh : you all Itay here, me (hew 
}0U good laugh : fo down he fits, and gets his boots off 
in a moment, and put on a pair of pumps (as we call 
the flat (hoes they wear) and which he had in his poc* 
ket, gives my other fervant his horfe, and, with his gun, 
away ^e ilew, fwift like the wind. 

The bear was walking foftly on, and offered to meddle 
with nobody, till Friday, coming pretty near, calls to • 
iiim, as if the bear could underftand him : Hark ye, harlj: 
ye, fays Friday, me fpeakee wit you. We follow^(} at a 
•dittan.ce ; for now being come down to the Gafcoigne fide 
of the mountains, we were entered a vaft great foreft,. 
where the coantry was plain," and pretty opeui though 
many trees init fcattered here and there. 

JFridayj who had, as we fay, the heels of the bear^ 
camejjp with him quickly, and takes. up a great ftone^ 
and jalnt)ws at him, and hit him jutt on the head^ but 
did him no mojre hann than if he had thrown it againft 
:a wall;. hut it anfvvered Friday's end; for the rogue 
.v^fas fo :Void of fear> that he did it purely to make 
.the bear f<5llow hifn, and fhew us fome laugh, as he 
.called it- . 

As foon as the bear felt the ftone, and few him, lie 

♦•turra about, and comes after him, taking devililh long 

llrides, and {hattling along at a ftrange rate, fo as wpuld 

.put an horfe a middling gallop; away rims Friday, 

: and Jtakes his courfe, as if he ran towards us for help,; 

fo.we all rofol/ed to fire at once upon the bear, and do-- 

. r liver my man ; though I \.as 4ngry at him heartily for 

fringing jLhe. bear back u^ou, us, whe^ he.wasgoipg 



R O Bl N S O N C'R U S O E. 27/ 

afeout his own bufinefs another way ; and cfpccially i 
w^9^ angiy that he had turned the bear upon us, and iheni- 
run away ; and I called out, You dog, faid 1, is this 
your making us laugh ? Come away, and take your 
horfe, that we may flioot the Creature. He hears me^ 
and cries out. No fliOQt, no ihoot, ftand ftill, you get 
much laugh : and as the nimble creature ran two feet 
for the beafl's one, he turned on a fudden, on one fide 
of us, and feeing a great oak-tree, fit for his purpofe^ 
he beckoned us to follow, and, doubling his pace, he 
gets nimbly up the tree, laying his gun down upon the 
ground, at about five or fij^ yards from the bottom of 
the tree. 

The bear foon came to the tree, and we followed at 
a diftance ; the firft thing he did, he ftopt at the gun^ 
fmelt to it, but let it lie, and up he fcrambles into the 
tree, climbing like a cat, though fo monfti'ous heavy : 
I was arnazed at the folly, as I thought it, of my man, 
and could not for my life fee any thing to Jaugh at yet^ 
till feeing the bear get up the tree, we all rode- nearer 
to him. 

When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out 
to the fmall of a large limb of the tree, and the bear got 
about half way to him : as foon as the bear got out to 
that part Where the limb of the tree was weaker. Ha, 
fays he to us, now you fee me teachee the bear dance; 
lo he falls a jumping, and iliaking the bough, at which 
the bear began to totter, but ftood ftiU, and begai%lo look 
behind him, to fee how he lliouid get back ; thei^idee^ 
we did laygh heartily : but Friday had not dcyne with him 
,by a great deal ; when he fees him ftand ftill,, he calls 
• out to him again, as if he had fuppefed the bear coiUd 
fpeak Englifii, What, you come no farther ? Pray yo^ 
come farther. So he left jumping and fhaking the 
bough ; and the bear, juft as if he underftood what he 
fliid, did come a little farther; then he fell a jumping 
again, and the bear ftopped again. 

Wc thought now was a good time to knock him 011 . 
tlie head, and called to Friday to ftand ftill,. and we 
v.'ould ftioot the bear ; but he cried out earneftly, O pray • 
O pray ! no flaoot, me llioot, by and then ; he would have 
laid, by and by. However, to fliorten the ftory, Friday 



I 



-48o ADVENTURES O F <: 

with was a dead horfe ; that is to fey, a poor horft 
which the wolves had killed, and at leaft a dozen of 
them at work; we could not fay eating of him, but 
picking of his bones rather ; for they had eaten up alj 
the fleih before. 

We did not think fit to difturb them at their feaft, 
neither did they take much notice of us ; Friday would 
have let fly at them, but I would not fuffer him by any 
means ; for I found we were like to have more buiinefs 
upon our hands than we were aware of. -We were 
not half gone over the plain, but we began to hear the 
wolves howl in the woods, on our left, in a frightful 
manner ; and prefently after we faw about an hundred 
coming on direftly towards us, all in a body, and 
moft of them in a line, as regularly as an army 
drawn up by experienced officers: I fcarce knew in 
what manner to receive them ; but found, to di*aw our- 
felves in a clofe line, was the only way : fa we forme4 
in a moment : but, that we might not have too much 
interval, I ordered, that only every other man lliould 
fire; and that the others, who had not fired, fh:>uld 
ftand ready to give them a fecond voiliey inunediateU% 
if they continued to advance upon us ; and that then 
thofe who had fired at fii ft, flxould not pretend to load 
their fiifils again, but ftand ready, with every one a 
pillol, for we were all armed with a fufil, and a pair 
qfpiftols, each man ; fo we were by this iricthod able 
to fire fix volleys, half of us at a time: however, at 
prefent we had no nece ■ ty ; for, upon firing the firft 
yolley,. the enemy made a full flop, being tenified, as 
•well with the noife, as with the fire ; tour of them, 
being fhot,in the head, dropped; feveral others were 
.wounded, and went bkediiig off, as we could fee by the 
fnow : I foimd they ftopped, but did not immediately 
retreat ; whereupon remembering that I had been toldi 
that thc/fierceft creatures were terrified at the voice of 
a man, I caufed all our company to halloa as loud as - 
we could, and found the notion not altogether mif- 
taken; for, upon our fliout* they began to retire, and 
turn about ; then I ordered a fecopd volley to be fired 
in their rear, which put them to the gaUop, and away 
rijcy weut to the. woods* .^ : .f 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. a8i 

This gave us leifure to charge our pieces again, and 
that we might lofe no time, we kept doing ; but we 
had but little n^ore than loaded our fufils, and put our- 
lelves into readinefs, when we heard a terrible noifc 
in the fame wood, on our left; only that it was farther 
onward the fame way we were tp go. 

The night was coming on, and the night began to 
be duiky, which made it the worfe on our fide ; but, 
the noue increaiing, we could ealily perceive, tliat ft 
was the howling and yelling of thofe helliih creatures; 
and, on a fudden, we perceived two or three troops of 
wolves, on our left, one behind us, and one on our, 
front ; fo that we feemed to be furrounded with them ; 
however, as they did not fall upon us, we kept our 
way forward^ as faft as we could make our horfes go, 
which, the way being very rough, was only a good 
large trot; and in this manner we only came in vievir 
of the entrance of the wood, through which we were 
to. pafs, at the farther fide of. the plain; but we werp 
greatly furprifed, when, coming near the lane, or pafs, 
we faw a confufed number of wolves {landing juft at 
the entrance. 

On a fudden, at another opening of the wood, we 
heard the nolle of a gun ; and, looking thai way, out 
rufhed an horfe, with a faddle and a bridle on him, fly.- 
inglike the wind, andfixteen or feventeen wolves after 
him full fpeed ; indeed the hdrfe had the heels of them ; 
but as we flippofe, that he could not hold it at that rate, 
we doubted not but they would gjet up with him at.lafl; 
and no queftion but they. did. 

Here we had a moft horrible fight ; for, riding up to 
the entrance where the horfe came out, we found the 
carcafe of another horfe, and of two mea devoured by 
thefe ravenous creatures, and of one the man was no 
doubt the fame whom we heard fire a gun ; for there 
lay a gun jufl by him fired off, but, as to the m^n, his 
head, and the upper part of his body, were eaten up. . 

This filled us with horror, and we knew not what 
c6urfe to take ; but the creatures refolved us Toon j 
for they gathered about us prefently, in hopes of prey ; 
and I verily believe there were three hundred of themj 
It happened very much to our advantage, that at. the 



ftfe AbVENTURE OP 

entrance into the wood, but a little way from it, there 
lay fomc large timber-trees, which had been cut dowft 
the fummer before, and I fuppofe lay therefor carriage : ' 
I drew my Kttle troop in among thefe trees, and pla- 
cing onrfelves in a Ifaie behind one long tree, I advifed 
them all to alight, and, keeping that tree before us, fot 
a breaft-work, to ftand in a triangle, or three fronts, 
incloiing 0ltr horfes in the centre. 

We did fo, and it Avas well we did ; for never was k 
more furious charge than the creatures made upon us in 
this place : they came on us with a growling kind of a 
noiie,' and mounted the piece oT timber (#hich, as I 
faid, was our breaft-work), as if they were only ruftiing 
npon their prey ; and this fury of theirsj it feems, was 
principally occafioned by their feeing out horfes behind 
"US, which was the prey tbey aimed at : I ordered our 
trrn to fire a^ before, every other man ; and they took 
their aim fo fure, that indeed they killed fsveral of thfe 
\nrfVe$ at the firfl volley 2 but there v^as a neceflity to 
keeD a co^inuai firing, fbr they came on like devilj^ 
tbote behind pafhtng on thofe before. 

When we had fired our fecond volley of our fufiiss^ 
wt thmight they flopped a little, and I hoped they wc^ld 
have gone off, but it was but a moment, for others came 
forward again ; fo we fired our volleys of our piflol^ 
and I believe, in thefe four firings^ we killed feventeeh 
iwr eightewof them, and tamed twice as many ; yet thfey 
tame on again. 

I wasiom to fpend our laft fhot too haftily ; fo I called 
my fervant, not my man Friday, for he was better em* 
ployed J for, with the greateft dexterity imaginable, he 
thargcd my fqfil, and his own, while we were en- 
piged ; but, as I faid, I called my other man ; and, giv- 
ing him a horn of powder, I bade him lay a train, aB 
along the piece of timber, and let it be a large train ; 
he did fo, and had but time to get away, when the 
wolves came tip to it, and fome were got up upon it ; , 
when, I, fnappmg an uncharged piflo], clofe to the pow- 
der, fet it on nre; and thofe that were upon the timbch 
Were fcorched with it, and fix or feven of them fell, or 
irathel" jumped in among us, with the force and fright 
of the fice ; we difoaxd^d \3dk& isx^svinftasiti and the 



ROBINSON CRUSOlE- iS^. ' 

reft were fo frighted with th? light, which the nighty 
for now it was very near dark, made more terrible, 
that tliey drew back a little. 

Upon which I ordered our laft piflolstobe fired off in 
one volley, and after that we gave a (hout ; ^upon thisj 
the wolves turned tail, and we tallied immediately upon 
near twenty lame ones, which we found ftruggling on 
the ground, and fell a cutting them with our fwords, 
which anfwered our expec5tation ; for the crying alid 
howling they made were better underftood by their fel-* 
lows ; fo that they fled, and left u$. 

We had, firft and laft, killed about threefcore of 
them ; and had it been day -light, we had killed many 
more : the field of battle being thus cleared, we made 
forward again ; for we had ftiU hear a league to go : 
%«e heard the ravenous creatures iwhvl and yeH in th^ 
woods as we went, feveral times ; and fiHr^tmes wt 
.fancied we fai^ fome of them, but the fnow dazzHng 
our eyes, we were not certain ; fo in about an hour 
more, we came to the towti, where we were to lodge^ 
which we found in a terrible fri^t, and all in arms; tor 
it fecms, that, the night before, the wohrcs add fome 
bears had broken intd that village, and put them m a 
terrible fright ; and they were obliged to keep guard 
jii^ht and day, but efpecially ih the night to jM^ferv^ 
their cattle, and indeed their people. 

The next morning our guide was fo ill, and hislimbft 
fo fwelled with the rankling of his two wounds, that he 
could go no farther ; fo we were obliged to take a new 
guide there, and go to Tholoufe, where we found a 
warm climate, a fruitful peafant country, and no fnow^ 
no wolves, or any thing like them ; but when we told 
our ftory a^ Tholoufe, -they told us it was nothing but 
what was ordinaiy in' the great foreft at the foot of the 
Aiountaitis, efpecially when the fnow lay on the ground : 
but they enquired much what kind of a guide we had 
gotten, that would venture to bring ua that way infuch 
a fevere feafon ; and told us, it was very Biuch we 
were not all devoured: when we told them how we 
placed ourfelves, and the horfes in the middle, they 
blamed us exceedingly, and told us, it was fifty to one 
but we had been ail deftroyed 5 for it Wjis thit ^^Kt of 



284 ADVENTURES OF 

the horfes that made thr wolves (b furious, feeing their 
prey ; and that at other times they are really afraid.of a 
gun ; but they being exceflive hungry, and raging on 
that account, the eagemefs to come at the horfes had 
made them fenfclefs of danger; and that if v^e had not 
by the continued fire, and at laft by the ftratagem of 
the train of powder, maflcred them, k had been great 
odds but that we had been torn to pieces ; whereas, had 
we been content to have fat ftill on horfeback, and fired 
as horfemen, they would not have taken the horfes 
fo much for their own, when men were on their 
backs, us otherwife ; and withal they told us, that at 
laft, if we had flood altogether, and left our horfes, 
they would have been fo eager to have devoured them, 
that we might have come off fafe, efpecially having 
our £re-^ms.in ovir hands, and being fo many in 
number. 

For my part, I was never fo fenfible of danger in my^ 
life ; for feeing above three hundred devils come roar- 
ing and open-mouthed to devour us, and having nothing 
to fhelter us, or retreat to, I give myfclf over for loil ; 
and as it was, I believe, 1 fhall never care to crofs thofe 
mountains again; I tliink I would much rather go a 
thoufand leagues, by fea, though I were fure to meet 
with a florm once a week. - 

I have nothing uncommon to take notice of. In my^ 
paffage through France ; nothing but Avhat other travel- 
lers have given an account of, with much more advantage 
than I can ; I travelled from Thouloufe to Paris, and 
without any con fide rable ftay came to Calais,.and landjed 
*fafe at Dover, the fourteenth of January, after having, 
had a feverc cold feafon to. travel in. 
' I v/as now come to the centre of my travels, and , had 
in a little time all my new difcovered eftate fafe about 
me, the bills of exchange, which I brought witli me, 
having been very currently paid. 

My principal guide, and privy counfellor, was my 
good antient widow, who, in gratitude for the money 
I had fent her, thought no pains too much, or care too 
great, to employ for me ; and I trullcd her fo entirely 
with every thing, that I was perfcdly eafy as to the fe- 
curity of my eifeds; and indeed I was very happy fron> 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 225 

my beginning, and now to the end, in the unfpotted in- 
tegrity of this good gentlewoman. 

And now I began to think of leaving my efFefts with 
this woman, and fetting out for Lilbon, and fo to the 
Brafils : but now another fcriiple came in the way, and 
that was religion ; for as 1 had entertained fome doubts 
about the Roman religion, even while I was abroad, efpe- 
ciallyin my ftate of folitude; fo I knew there was no 
going to the Brafils for me, much lefs going to fettle 
there, unlefs I refolved to embrace the Roman Catholic 
xeligion, without any- referve ; except on the other hand 
I refolved to be a iacrifice to my principles, be a martyr 
for religion, and die in the inquifition ; fo I refolved to 
flay at home, and, if I eoulJ find means for it, to difpofe 
of my plantation. 

To this purpofe I wrote to my old frlfend at Lifbon, 
who in return gave me notice, that he could eafily dif- 
pofe of it there : but that if I thought fit to give him 
leave to offer it In my name to the two merchants, the 
furvxvors of my truftees who lived in the Brafils, who 
muft fully underftandthe value of it, who lived juft upon 
the fpot, and who I knew to be very rich, fo that he be- 
lieved they would be fond of biying it ; he did not 
doubt, but I fliould make 4 or 50CO pieces of eight the 
inore of it- 

, Accordingly I agreed, gave him orders 19 offer it to 
them, and he did fo ;' and, in about. eight mouths more, 
the fhip being then returned, he fisnt me an account, that 
they had accepted the offer, and had remitted 33,000 
pieces Jo£ eight to a correfpondent of theirs at Lifbon, to 
pay for 4t. ') ., » ' 

In. return, I figned the inflrument of (ale in the 
form which they fent from Lilbon, and fent it to my old 
man, who fent me the bills of exchange for 32,5oo» pieces 
of eight for the eflate; referving the payment of ico 
moidores a year, to him, the old man, during his, life, 
and 50 moidores afterwards to. his fon for his life, which 
I hadpromifedthem; and which the plantation H-as to 
jjuke good as a rent-charge. And thus I have given 
the firil' part of a life of fortune and adventure, a 
life of providence's, chequer- work, and of sic variety 

which 



s86 ADVENTURES OF' 

which the world will feldom be able t5o ftiew tlie iikroiFi 
beginning foolifhly, biit clofing much more happily than 
any part of it ever gave me leave fo moiih, as to hope 
for. 

Any one would think, that in this (late of complicated 
good fortune, I was pail running any more hazards ; 
9nd fo indeed I had been, if other circumftances had 
concurred ; but I v^as enured to a wandering life, had no 
family, npr many relations ; nor, however rich, had I 
contrafted much acquaintance ; and though I had fold my 
eilate in the Brafils, yet I could not keep that country 
out of my head, and had a great mind to be upon the 
wing again ; efpecially I could not refill the ,ftrong in- 
cfination I had to fee my ifland, and to know if the poor 
Spaniards were in being thcie ,• and how the rogues I 
]m there had ufed them. 

My true friend the widow earncftly difluaded riic 
from it^ and fo far prevailed with me, that almoA for 
feven years fhe jM'evented my running abroad j during 
which time I took my two nephews, the children of 
one of my brothers, int» my care : the eldeil, having 
fomething of his own, 1 bred up as a gentleman, and 
gave him a fettlenient of fome addition to his eftate, 
after my .deceafe ; the other I put out to a captain of a 
fhip ; and after five years, findmg him a fenlible, bold, 
cnterprifing yomig fellow, I put hint into a good ftiip, 
and fent him to fea, and this young fellow afterwards 
drew me in, as old as I was, to farther adventures niy« 
felf. 

In the mean time, I in part fettled inyfelf here : fbr^ 
firft of all I married; and that not either to my difadr 
vantage or diflatisfedion ; and had three children, two 
fons and one daugfeer : but my wife dying, and my 
nephew coming home with good fuccefs from a voyage 
to Spain, my inclination to go abroad, and his importu- 
nity, prevailed and engaged me to go in his iliip as a 
private trader to the EaS-Indies : this was in the year 

In this voyage I vifited my new colony in the iOand, 
faw my fucceflbrs the Spaniards, had the whole (lory of 
their lives, and of the villains I left there; how at firtk 

they 



R O B I N S O K CRUSOE. s^if 

they infultcd the pdor Spaniards, how they afterwards 
agreed, difagfeed, united, feparated, and how at lail the 
Spanisurds were obliged to nfe violence with them ; how 
they were fiibjcfted to the Spaniards ; hpw honeftly the 
Spaniards itifed them ; an kifioij, if it were entered into^ 
a$ fail of variety fnd wondernil accidents, as my own 
part ; particularly alio as to their battles with the Carib- 
D^ns, who landed fevcral times upon the iiland, andbas^- 
to the improvement ^thcy made upon the ifknd itfelf$^ ' 
ahd how five of them made an attempt upon the main 
land, and brought away eleven men and five women 
prifoners; by which, at my coming, I found about 
twenty young childi*en on the ifland* 
, Here I ftayed about twenty days ; left them fupplies 
of all neceflary things, and particularly of arms, pow- 
der, fhot, clothes, tools, and two workmen, which I 
brought from England with me ; viz. a carpenter, and a 
fmith. 

Befides this, I ihared the land into parts with them^ 
rderved to myfelf the property of the whole, but gave 
them fuch parts, refpeAively, as they agreed on ; and^ 
having fettled all thmgs with them, and engaged them 
not to leave the place, I left them there. 

From thence 1 touched at the Brafils, ft-^nv whence I 
fent a bark, which I bought there, with more people, to 
the iiland ; and in it, beiides other fuppliesi, I li^itieven 
women, being fuch as I found proper for ferviq^ or for 
wives to fuch as would take them : as to the Engfiihmen, 
I promifed them to fend them fome women fi^m Eng- *. 
land, with a good cargo of neceflaries, if they would ap-/ 
ply themfelves to planting which I afterwards could not 
perform : the fellows proved very honeft and diligent, 
after they were maftered, and had their properties fet 
apart for them. I fent them alfo from the Bpafils five 
cows, three of them being big with cdf, fome fheep, and 
fome hogs, which, when I came again, were confider- 
ably increafed. 

But all thcfe things, with an account how 300 Carib- 
becs came and invaded them, and ruined their plantations, 
and. how they fought with that whole number twice, 
and were at firft defeated, and one of them killed ; but 

- at 



2«S ADVENTURES OF 

at laft a ftorm deflroying their enemies canoes, thev ia»- 
miflied or deftroyed almoft all the reft, and renewed' and 
recovered the pofleffion of their plantation, and ftill lived 
upon the iiland. 

i All thefe things, with fome very furpriiing incidents in 
Ibme new adventures of my own, for ten years more, I 
may, perhaps, give a farther account of hereafter. 



O^Hri END OF THE FIRST YOLTMK, 



V 



► 






DEC 6 - 1938 



