
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the Copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to Copyright or whose legal Copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that 's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken Steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the file s We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's System: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in Copyright varies from country to country, and we can't off er guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
any where in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's Information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the füll text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



i<-H:i%^M> 



HARVARD COLLEGE 
LIBRARY 




THE GIFT OF 
JAMES MELVILLE HUNNEWELL 

CLASS OF IMl 

OF BOSTON 



BOHN'S ILLUSTEATED LIBRARY. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

ILLÜSTRATED BY STOTHARD, HARVEY, 
AND OTHERS. 



^ r4 



Har\'g.rd Coil<v - Li.h^ajy 
Aprü €\ 19 U-., 

Qif t Cf ^^ 



\ 



CONTENTS. 



9AQM 

BlOORAPHICAL SkXTCH OW DaVXSI. DxPOX....^ ^....m.*«..m.m ix 

SECTION I. 
Robinson's Family, Are— His Elopement firom his Parents ^- 1 



SECTION II. 

First Adrentures at Sea, and Experience of a Maritime Life.— Voyage to 
Guinea ...., „ 5 

SECTION III. 
Robinson's Captivity at Sallee.— Escape with Xury.— Arrival at the Bntili ... IS 

SECTION IV. 
He settles in the Brasils as a Planter.— Makes another Voyage, and is ship- 



2S 



SECTION V. 



Robinson finds himself in a desolate Island. — Procures a Stock of Articles 
firom the Wreck. — Constructs his Habitation 36 

SECTION VI. 

Carries all his Richcs, Provisions, &c. into his Habitation.— Dreariness of 
Solitude. — Consolatory Refiections 45 

SECTION VII. 

Robinson's Mode of reckoning Time.— Difficulties arising firom want of Tools. 
— lie arranges his Habitation 49 

SECTION VIII. 

Robinson's Journal. — Details of his Domestic Economy and Contrivances. — 
Shock of an Earthquake ^4 

SECTION IX. 
Robinson obtains more Articles from the Wreck.- His Illness and Aflüction.. 64 

SECTION X. 
His Recovery.— His Comfort in Reading tlie Scriptures.— Makes an Excursion 
intothe Interiorof the Island.— Forms his " Bower" 71 



n CONTENTS. 

rAOB 

SECTION XI. 
Robinson makes a Tour to ezplore his l8land.~>Employed in Baiket-making 82 

SECTION XII. 
Ho returns to hit Cave.— His Agricultural Labours and Snooe« 86 

SECTION XIII. 
His Manufacture of Pottery, and Contrivance for baking Bread 92 

SECTION XIV. 
Meditates his Escape firom the Island. — Builds a Canoe. — Failure of his 
Scheme. — Resignation to his Condition. — Makes himself a new Dress 96 

SECTION XV. 
He makes a smaller Canoe, in which he attempts to cruise nund the Island. — 
His perilous Situation at Sea. — He retnms hoxne 105 

SECTION XVI. 
He rears a Flock of Goats. — His Diary. — His Domestic Habits and Style of 
Living. — Increasing Prosperity 112 

SECTION XVII. 
Unexpected Alarm and Cause for Apprehension.— He fortifies his Abode 119 

SECTION XVIII. 

Precautions against Surprise. — Robinson discovers that his Island has been 
Tisited by Cannibals 126 

SECTION XIX. 
Robinson discorers a Cave, -which senres him as a Retreat against the Sarages 134 

SECTION XX. 
Another Visit of the Sarages. — Robinson sees them dancing.— Perceives the 
Wreck of a Vessel 140 

SECTION XXI. 
He Tisits the Wreck and obtains many Stores ftom it. — Again thinks of quit- 
ting the Island. — Has aremarkable Dream 145 

SECTION XXII. 
Robinson rescues one of their Captives firom the Savages, whom he names 
Friday, and makes his Servant 155 

SECTION XXIII. 
Robinson instructs and civilizes his Man Friday.— Endeavours to give him an 
Ideaof Christianity ^, 163 



CONTENTS. ¥U 

SECTION XXIV. 

»AOX 

Robiaion «nd liri ay build « Canoe to carry them to Friday*! Conntry.— 
Thair Schema prevented by the arrival of a Party of Savages 172 

SECTION XXV. 

Robinson releases a Spaniard. — Friday discoveta bis FaÜier.->— Acconunodar 
tion provided for these new Guests — ^who are afterwards sent to liberate 
tbe otber Spaniards. — Arrival of an English VesseL 181 

SECTION XXVI. 

Robinson discovers himself to the English Captain. — Assists Him in redudng 
bis mntinous Crew,— who svfbmit to Him 195 

SECTION XXVII. 

Atkins entreats the Captain to spare bis Life. — The latter recovers bis Vessel 
firom the Mutineers, — and Robinson leaves the Island. 206 

SECTION XXVIII. 

Robinson goes to Lisbon, where he finds the Portuguese Captain, who renders 
him an Account of bis Property in the Brasils. — Sets out on bis Retum 
to England by Land 214 

SECTION XXIX. 

Friday's Enoounter with a Bear. — Robinson and bis fellow Travellers 
attacked by a Flock of Wolves. — His Arrangement of bis Affairs, and 
Marriage after his Retum to England 224 

SECTION XXX. 
He is seised with a Desire to revisit his Island.— Loses bis Wife — Is tempted 
to go to Sea again. — Takes out a Cargo for bis Colony 234 

SECTION XXXI. 
Robinson's Ship r^eves the Crew of a French Vessel that had caught Fire... 242 

SECTION XXXII. 
Relieves the Crew of a Bristol Ship, who are starving. — Arrives at his Island 249 

SECTION XXXIII. 

Robinson and Friday go ashore. — The latter meetswith hisFather. — Account 
of what passed on the Island after Robinson's quitting it 256 

SECTION XXXIV. 

Tbe Account continued. — Quarreis between the Englishmen. — A Battle 
between two Parties of Savages who visit the Island. — Fresh Mutiny 
among the Settiers ..,...,,.. 2^^ 



? 



CONTENTS. 



SECTION XXXV. 

The mntinooB Englishxnen are dismissftd firom the Isfand. — Retorn with 
«everal captive Savages. — Take the Fexnales as Wives 280 

SECTION XXXVI. 

Several Savages killed; the Remainder leave the Island.— A Fleet of them 
afterwards arrive. — A general Battle. — The Savages are overcome, and 
Tranquillity restored. 291 

SECTION XXXVII. 

Robinson leams trom the Spaniards the Difficulties thej had to encounter. 
—He fumishes the People with Tools, &c.— The French Ecclesiastic... 306 

SECTION XXXVIII. 

Robinson's Discourse with the Ecclesiastic as to introducing Marriages 
among the People. — Marriages perfonned. — Atkins converts his Wife 316 

SECTION XXXIX. 

Atkins relates his Conversation with his Wife. — The latter baptized by the 
Priest. — Account of the starving State of those on board the rescued Vessel. 
— Robinson's Departure from the Island 332 

SECTION XL. 

Encounter with Savages at Sea. — Friday's Death. — Robinson finds his fonner 
Partner in the Brazils. — Sails for tlie East Indies 350 

SECTION XLI. 

The Vessel touches at Madagascar. — Affray with the Natives, — who are mas- 
sacred by the Crew. — The Sailors afterwards refuse to sail with Robinson, 
who is leftbyhis Nephew, the Captain, in Bengal 358 

SECTION XLII. 

Meets with an English Merchant with whom he makes some trading Voyages. 
— They are mistaken for Pirates. — Vanquish their Pursuers. — Voyage to 
China. — Rencontre with the Cochin-Chinese.— Island of Formosa. — Giüf 
of Nanquin. — Apprehensions of falllng into the Hands of the Dutch 373 

SECTION XLIII. 

Jonrney to Peking. — Robinson Joins a Caravan proceeding to Moscow. — Ren- 
contxes with the Tartars 402 

SECTION XLIV. 

Route through Muscovy. — Robinson and a Scots Merchant destroy an Idol. 
— The whole Caravan in great Peru from the Pursuit of the Pagans. — 
Tobolski. — Muscovite Exiles. — Departure from Tobolski.— Encounter with 
a Truop of Robbers in the Desert. — Robinson reaches Archangel, and 
finally arrivea in England 417 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



Engraved on steel ly J, Stephenson, 



AFTER DESIGNS BY STOTHARD. 



Cbusoe taking leave op his Paeents JFrontispiece. 



Crusoe shipweecked 
Ceusob on his eaft 

CbUSOE in his CA VE 
CbUSOE in his ISLAND DEESS 
CeUSOE FIRST SEES PrIDAY . 

Crusoe and Pridat making a boat . 
Crusoe and Fuiday making a tent . 
Ceusoe's inteeview avith the Spaniaeds 
The two Englishmen eetreatino 
The Englishman's plantation 
Chinese gentleman at his repast 



page 34 
42 
52 
115 
158 
176 
186 
258 
2Ö0 
322 
404 



BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH 



DANIEL DEFOE. 



The author of Robinson Crusoe would be entitled to a prominent 
place in the history of our literature, even had he never given to 
the World that truly admirable production; and yet we may 
reasonably question wbetber tbe name of Defoe would not long 
Ego have sunk into oblivion^ or at least have been known, like 
those of most of bis contemporaries, only to tbe curious Student, 
were it not attacbed to a work wbose popularity has been rarely 
equalled — never, perbaps, excelled. Even as it is, tbe roputatioii 
due to tbe writer bas been nearly altogetber absorbed in tbat of 
bis hero, and in tbe all-engrossing interest of bis adventures: 
thousands wbo bave read Robinson Crusoe with deligbt, and 
derived from it a satisfaction in no wise diminisbed by repeated 
perusal, bave never bestowed a tbougbt on its autbor, or, indeed, 
regarded it in tbe ligbt of a literary Performance. Wbile its 
fascination bas been universally feit, tbe genius tbat conceived it, 
the talent tbat perfected it, bave been generally overlooked, 
merely because it is so füll of nature and reality as to exhibit no 
invention or exertion on tbe part of tbe autbor, inasmucb as be 
appears simply to bave recorded wbat actually bappened, and 
consequently only to bave committed to paper piain matter of 
fact, witbout study or embellisbment. We worider at and are 
Struck with admiration by tbe powers of Shakspeare or Cervantes; 
with regard to Defoe we experience no similar feelings : it is not 
the skill of tbe artist tbat encbants us, but tbe perfect naturalness 
of tbe picture, wbicb is such tbat we mistake it for a mirror : so 



X BI06RAPHICAL SKETCH OF 

that every reader persuades himself tbat he could write as well, 
perhaps better, were he but furnished with tbe materials for an 
equally interesting narrative. 

There are many circumstances in Defoe's own history that 
would recomrnend it to the notice of the hiographer, indepen- 
dently of bis claims as the author of Robinson : among which 
are the vatiety and extraordinary niunbär of bis literary Per- 
formances, amounting to no fewer than two bundred and nine 
different publications ; and tbe no less singular fact tbat the 
masterpiece of bis genius was not only bis first essay in tbat 
species of composition, but was not produced tili he was far 
advanced in years, he hav|ng then arrived at a period of life when 
the generality of authors close their literary career, and when the 
powers of Imagination eitber lose much of their yigour, or become 
altogetber torpid. Nor will our surprise at Defoe's industry, and 
the almost onprecedented fertility of bis pen, be at all diminished 
by considering that he was not a recluse Student or professed 
Scholar, but was engaged in trade and various other speculations. 
In one respect, bowever, bis mercantile occupations contributed 
to lay the foundation of bis excellence as a novel-writer, since 
there can be little doubt that it is to bis actual experience of the 
sea, and bis acquaintance with other countries, we are indebted 
for tbat truth and spirit which animate the more interesting parts 
of Robinson Crusoe; while bis manly good sense, undFected 
eamestness, and fund of native intelligence, have placed bim 
very far above those who presume to undervalue bis literary 
acquirements. 

According to tbe latest and most copious of all bis biographers, 
Daniel Defoe was bom in 1661, two years earlier than tbe 
generally assigned date of bis birtb. His father was a butcher 
in the parish of St Giles, Cripplegate ; and appears to have been 
a Citizen in easy circumstances, althougb his trade was one tbat 
confen no particular lustre on a pedigree. It is usual to affect 
some degree of astonishment when we read of men whose after 
fame presents a striking contrast to the bumility of their origin : 
yet we must recollect that it is not ancestry and splendid descent, 
but education and circumstances which form the man; and in 
this respect the middling classes possess a decided advantage over 
those eitber below or above them : for if the former are precluded 
irom cultivating their talents and abilities, the latter generally 
cousider tbemselves ezempt from the necessity of doing so, and 



DANIEL DEFOE. xi 

I 

acfeordingly content themselves with cultivating mere extemal 
accomplishments, in preference to exercising their mental ener- 
gies. Those on the contrary utrho are placed in a middle Station, 
while they are not debarred from the means of application, feel 
that Stimulus to exertion which arises from the desire of acquiring 
ibrtune or fame. Tbe history of such men as Ximenes, Wolsey, 
Alberoni, and Napoleon, may, indeed, justly excite our wonder ; 
*— when, too, 'we behold unlettered genius emerging, in spite 
of every obstacle, from the obscurity to which it seemed con- 
demned, as in a Fergusson, a Duval, a Burns, and an Opie, we 
may be permitted to express our astonishment ; but as regards 
bis origin, the history of Defoe is that of thousands who have 
afterwards raised themselves into comparative elevation by the 
display of their powers. The solicitude, therefore, so generally 
displayed by biographers, on similar occasions, to trace some 
oonsanguinity with a more dignified branch of their families, for 
lliose whose natire obscurity seems to demand some apology, 
betrajTS a rather mistaken policy. However this may be, it is 
certain ^at it is quite as honourable for Defoe to have ascended 
from a biitcheras it would have been to have descended from the 
Conqueror himselE 

One undoubted and very great advantage, for which Defoe 
was indebted to bis parents, who were Nonconformists, was an 
education superior to what it was then usual for persons in their 
Station to bestow upon their children ; and they were careful 
also to implant in bis youthful mind that regard for religion, and 
that strict moral integrity, which afterwards displayed themselves 
not only in bis writings, but his conduct through life. And this 
rectitude of principle he most unequivocally evinced when his 
misfortunes put it so severely to the proof. At about the age of 
fourteen, he was placed under the tuitien of the Rev. Cliarles 
Morton, of Newington Green, who was afterwaids vice-president 
of Harvard College, New England ; and from various incidental 
remarks in his own works, it appears that young Defoe now 
entered upon an extensive course of studies, and made consider- 
able proficiency in languages, mathematics, philosophy, history, 
and theology ; although the natural liveliness of his disposition 
uofitted him for that severe application which is necessary to form 
a profound scholar in any one of those pursuits. 

It was the intention of his parents that he should embrace 
the clerical profession, which their religious feelings, and pro« 



XU BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OP 

bably a very pardonable ambition, induced tbem to select for 
him : yet, notwithstanding bis regard for tbe sacred ofiice, be 
was unwilling to embrace it liimself ; or events, at least, diverted 
bis talents into anotber cbannel. The political and religious 
excitements of tbat period were contagious for one of Defoe's 
temper : be assumed tbe cbaracter of tbe patriot as soon as be 
cast off tbat of tbe boy, and espoused tbe side of tbe populär 
party with all tbe ardour of youtb ; nor was it long before be 
bad opportunities of distinguisbing biraself. He was a warm 
advocate for tbe Bill of Exciusion, passed by tbe Commons to 
prevent tbe succession of tbe Duke of York to tbe tbrone ; and 
regarded witb abborrence tbat spirit of despotism wbicb sen- 
tenced Sydney and so many otbers to tbe scaffold. At tbe age 
of twenty-oue be commenced autbor, wbicb employment be con- 
tinued for nearly balf a Century, and tbat, too, alraost uninter- 
ruptedly, notwitbstanding bis various speculations of a different 
nature. It cannot be expected tliat in a sketcb of tbis natura 
we sbould attempt to give anytbing like a connected account of 
Defoe's various literary Performances, tbey being too numerouä 
and multifarious for us to advert to tbem separately, even if we 
conceived tbat by so doing we sbould greatly interest tbe readers 
of tbis — tbe most distinguisbed of tbem all. But tbe trutb is, 
tbe majority of tbem are of tbat class wbicb it is ratber tbe 
province of tbe bibliograpber tban tbe critic to describe. We 
may, bowever, bere mention tbe first production of bis pen, 
wbicb, under tbe singular title of ** Speculum Crape-gownorum," 
was a reply to a publication of Roger L' Estrange 's, a noted party 
writer of tbat day. In tbis work Defoe indulged in ratber in- 
temperate language, and wbile vindicating tbe dissenters, re- 
fiected in too bostile and indiscrlminate a manner upon tbe 
established clergy. Tbis was succeeded by a *'Treatise against 
tbe Turks," occasioned by tbe war between tbem and tbe Im- 
perialists ; and was penned by Defoe for tbe purpose of sbowing 
bis countrymen tbat, if it was tbe interest of Protestantism not 
to inerease tbe influence of a Catbolic power, it was infinitely 
more so to oppose a Maboaimedan one ; wbicb, bowever debate- 
able it migbt appear to politicians, was almost too obvious a 
truism to be entitled to any merit for its sagacity. It is tbe fate 
of political publications quickly to fall into oblivion after tbe 
events wbicb call tbem fortb bave passed away : tbe reputation 
derived frora tbem is as transitory as tbe events tbemselves, or if 



DANIEL' DEFOE. ICiii 

the fame of the writer occasionally descends to posterity, it is 
more than can be affirmed of his wtitings. 

Shortly after this, Defoe proved that he was as ready to 
Support the doctrines he advocated by the sword as by the pen : 
he accordingly joined the Standard of the Duke of Monmouth, 
when the latter landed in England with the view of expelling a 
Catholic prince from the throne, and seating himself upon it as 
the defender of protestantism. Hie issue of that ad venture, and 
the subsequent fate of the unfortunate, if not perfectiy innocent, 
Monmouth are well known. Happier than the leader of the 
enterprise, it was Defoe's better luck to escape : he return ed to 
the metropolis in safety ; and, abandoning politics and warfare, 
was content for a while to turn hls attention to the more humble 
but less stormy pursuits of trade 

He now hecame a hosier, or rather a hose-factor, that is, a kind 
of agent between the manufacturer and retailer ; and, according to 
Mr. Chalmers, he continued to carry on this concem from 1685 to 
1695. It was about two years after he had thus estahlished him- 
self, that he was admitted a liveryman of London, on the 26th of 
January, 1687-8. Business, however, did not so entirely absorb 
his attention but that he found time to engage in the various 
controversies that agitated the public mind, and which were 
occasioned by the arbitrary measuresof James, who,feeling himself 
secure after the removal of so dangerous an enemy as Monmouth, 
began more openly to favour the Catholics, and to dispense with 
the tests intended to prevent their accepting commissions in the 
army. This of course excited both the alarm and indignation 
of the Protestants, which were by no means allayed by the 
temporizing servility of their own clergy, who exerted their elo- 
quence in favour of the king's prerogative. Among those who 
attacked the doctrine of the dispensing power was Defoe ; nor, as 
may well be imagined, was he afterwards an unconcemed spectator 
of the Revolution, whose progress he had minutely watched, and 
whose anniversary he continued yearly to celebrate as a day 
marked by the deliverance of his country from political and 
religious tyranny. His attachment to the new sovereign was con- 
firmed by the personal notice shown bim both by that prince and 
his consort ; for the " butcher's son " had had the honour of an 
early introduction to the royal presence. 

At this period Defoe resided at Tooting in Surrey, and he had 
now launched out into more extensive commercial speculations, 



^1X7 BIOGRAPmCAL SKETCH OF 

having exnbarked in tfae Spanish and Portuguese trade, so that he 
might fairly claim the title of merchant. The precise time of his 
going to Spain, whether before or after the Revolution, cannot be 
ascertained; but he not only made a voyage thither, but stayed 
some time in the country, and acquired a knowledge of the 
language. Sincere as was his attachment to the purer tenets of 
protestantism, it did not degenerate into blind prejudice, nor pre- 
vent him from doing justice to catholics : he has accordingly, in 
his Robinson Crusoe, represented the Spanish character under its 
most amiable traits, and in a tone that may almost pass for 
panegyric. This voyage, as we have already remarked, doubt- 
lessl^ contributed to störe his observant mind with many materials 
for those descriptions of the perils and adventures common to a 
seafaring life, that so strongly excite the sympathy of those who 
follow his hera aeross the trackless deep. Nor was he without 
some experience of «hipwreck, if not actually in his own person, 
by the loss of a vessel in which he was a shareholder, and whieh 
was wrecked in a vic^ent storm off the coast of Biscay. It was 
about this period also that he traded with Holland; probably for 
civet, as one of his enemies has sneeringly styled him a *' civet- 
cat merchant." Besides this he visited «ome other parts of the 
continccit, particularly Germany : he did not, however, relinquisli 
his hose-agency business in consequence of his other engagements. 
But commercial enterprise did not prove for him the road to 
wealth : on the contrary, his speculations involved him in such 
embarrassments, that, in 1692, he was obliged to abscond from 
hb creditors. A commission of bankruptcy was taken out against 
him, yet it was afterwards superseded, those to whom he was most 
in debt agreeing to accept a composition on his own bond ; and 
he not only punctually discharged these claims, but, afler he had 
somewhat retrieved his circumstances, voluntarily repaid the 
remainder. This is so much the more to his honour, since so far 
from having met with many precedents of similar probity in 
others, his misfortunes had been in some degree occasioned by 
the knavery of unprincipled men, who, availing themselves of the 
impunity held out to them by the supineness or the impotency of 
the law, were then accustomed to set their creditors at defiance in 
the most barefaced manner. 

It was Defoe himself who first calied the attention of the 
legislature to the intolerable abuses which arose from those 
aanciuariea, as they were termed, for criminals and debtors, which 



then existed in the metropdis; and to him, consequently, mtty 
we be Said to be indebted for tbe abatement of a nuisance as dia^ 
graceful to the national character, as it was ii\|uriou8 tothe indus- 
trious and honest portion of the Community. 

With tbe view of assisting him in hJB distress) some of bis 
friends now came forward and offered to settle him as a factor 
at Gadiz : yet, advantageous as the proposal was, he declined it| 
preferring to endeavour to retrieye bis finances by bis pen. The 
country being then engaged in an expensive war wiüi France, 
Defoe proposed a scheme to assist the govemment in raising 
'* tbe ways and means ;" and some time afterwards he received 
the appointment of accountant to the commissioners oi the glass 
duty ; but it proved only a temporary one, a» the duty was 
-repealed in August, 1699. Prohably it was also about the same 
period that he became secretary to the tile-works at Tilbury, in 
which concevn- be embarked some money, and was again a suf-* 
feier. His " Essay on Progects," published in January, 1696-7, 
shows him to have been, if not a very successfid speculator him-p 
seif, at least a very ingenious and fertDe deviser of theoretical 
plans, most of which must be allowed to have the welfare of 
Society in view ; nor have they been without influence in leading 
to many improvements of later times : among those which have 
been practically adopted, we may mention his scheme for Friendly 
Societies and Savings Banks. Ware any testimony requhed in 
favour of this werk, it would be sufficient to quote that of the 
celebrated Franklin, whoconfesses that the impressions hereceived 
from it gave a strong bias to his own pursuits. 

If not invariably employed in the active defence of public 
raorals, Defoe's pen was too honest to betray their intereats on 
any oecasion : it was not always that his topics called for, or even 
admitted, any direet inculcations of virtue, but whenever they 
did, he displayed his earnestness in its behalf. His publication 
entitled " The Poor Man*s Plea" is a very keen piece of satire, 
with a considerable touch of humour, levelled against the vices of 
the Upper classes of society, in which he urges them to discoun- 
tenance by their own conduct. the immorality they deem so 
reprehensible in the vulgär. The stage too did not escape his 
castigation ; and really its transgressions were at that period so 
barefaced and audacious, so offensive even to common decency, 
that, whatever infamy there may have been in either tolerating 
or in attempting to defend such a system of lewdness, there could 



XVI BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF 

be no great triumph in exposing that which did not even attempt 
to conceal itself. 

We have now to notice our author in a somewhat dififerent 
character — namely, as a candidate for poetical fame. His satire, 
entitled the " Trueborn Englishman," which was written for 
tbe purpose of averting from tbe king tbe abusive reflections cast 
upon bim as a foreigner, bad indeed a very great run at the time 
— more, bowever, on account of tbe matter ihan of tbe manner 
— since botb tbat and all Defoe's otber attempts of tbe kind 
convince us, tbat, like the great Roman orator, be was an intole- 
rabiy bad poet, and not even a decent versifier. Yet could 
gratitude and entbusiastic devotion to bis prince bave supplied 
tbat Inspiration wbicb tbe muses denied bim, Defoe's poetry 
would bave been of first-rate excellence, so sincere was bis 
admiration of, so zealous was bis devotion to, William III. Tbe 
various efiusinns in rbyme, and tbe numerous political pampblets 
and tracts wbicb be publisbed at tbis interval, we must pass by, 
and come directly to an event that obtained for our autbor a 
ratber unenviable species of distinction. The reign of Anne 
commenced witb much violence and witb cabals between tbe 
respective churcb parties, leading to controversies tbat ratber 
fanned tban allayed tbe public ferment. On such an occasion, 
it was not to be expected tbat Defoe would remain passive : 
assuming tbe fiirious tone of the bigb-churchmen of the day 
against tbe dissenters, be publisbed a small pampblet, wbicb was 
in reality a satire upon the writings wbicb tbat party bad issued 
from tbe press, but tbe irony was so fine, and the imitation so 
exact, tbat wbile it was supposed by them to utter tbe real senti- 
ments of tbe writer, it was also interpreted by tbose wbom it 
was intended to serve as coming from a violent enemy. Tbe 
" Sbortest Way witb tbe Dissenters" — such was its title — created 
an amazing Sensation; and on its real object being exposed, 
tbe bigb-cburcb party became as fierce in their Indignation, as 
they bad before been warm in their applause. Tbe autbor 
was detected, a reward offered for bis apprebension, and be 
bimself sentenced to be imprisoned in Newgate, and to stand 
in tbe pillory ; but tbe attendance of his friends, and tbe entbu- 
siasm of tbe populace in favour of the champion of religious 
liberty, converted an ignominious punishment into a triumph, 
80 tbat bis enemies bad as little reason to exult in their victory, 
as to be proud of tbe sagacity tbey bad displayed. If, bowever, 



DAKIEL DEFOE. XYU 

this event rather increased than diminished Defoe's reputation, 
it had a difierent effect upon his pecuniary affiurs : his confine- 
ment in Newgate prevented bis attending any longer to his con- 
cem at Tilbnry, the consequence of which was that it was obliged 
to be given up ; and thus Defoe saw himself deprived at once of 
what had been the source of a bandsome ineome, for before this 
a&dr he was in such thriving circumstances as to be able to keep 
his coach. According to bis own Statement, be lost three thousand 
fiye hundred ponnds, a far more considerable sum at that period 
than it would be now« There was indeed one way of both speedily 
and safely repairing his finances, namely, by accepting the over- 
tures made bim by the ministry, who would gladly have enlisted 
in their own cause that pen which had proved so powerful against 
thetn : but Defoe was t^o independent of soul, and too high-prin- 
cipled, to purchase his release upon terms that would inflict upon 
bim the disgrace the pillory had failed to effect. 

Although a prison is not the most congenial place for literary 
pursuits, our author availed himself of the time which the loss of 
his liberty afforded bim, of occupying his unwelcome leisure from 
all other business in writing both in verse and prose. It was here 
that he published his poem on the "Reformation of Manners," a 
sufiiciently copious theme in every age, and afterwards continued 
the subject in another, entitled **More Reformation;" in which he 
alludes to his own Situation in the foUowing nervous lines, de- 
schbing himself as 

" A modern tool, , 

To wit, to parties and himself a fool ; 

Embroil'd with states to do himself no good, 

And by his fViends themselves misunderstood ; 

Misconstrued first in every word he said, — 

By these unpitied, and by those unpaid." 

Here we m^ truly sEyfacU indignatio versus^ for the «austic tone 
and antithesis are not unwortby of Pope himself. The political 
controversial pieces which he sent forth to the world from his 
" place of durance vile " wäre too numerous for us to specify 
them : we therefore prefer speaking of a work of more permanent 
interest, one in which he may be regarded as the immediate pre- 
decessor of two of the most populär and admired of our classic 
writcrs in the days of Anne — namely, Steele and Addison. Defoe's 
** Review," which commenced Feh. 19, 1704, deserves to be con- 
sidered as the prototype of our Tatlers and Spectators ; and may 
earn for its author the appellation of the Father o( EngU&b. 



XTÜi BIOGRAFHICAI» SKETCH OF 

Essayists: smce notwithttanding that political intelHgenee acd 
discutsion oonstituted a great portion of its contenti, it touched 
upon a variety of otber topics bearing upon literature, mannera, 
and morals ; while it was itself bardly in any degree indebted for 
tbis part of its pUn to preceding or contemporary publications. 
Uniformly assaiUng vice, or exposing to just ridicule tbe foUies 
and foibles of sooiety, Defoe varied bis mode of attack, at one 
time employing grave reasoning and serious remonstrance; at 
anotber, substituting sarcasm, bumour, wit, and pleasantry, for 
monitory reproof. To a modern reader, indeed, many of tbe topics 
niight seem to lack invention, and to be ratber commonplace, 
merely because tbey have been so repeatedly bandled by later 
writers, tbat botb tbe wit and argument displayed in tbem have 
lost tbeir fresbness. This circumstance, bowever, does not detract 
ftom Defoe's intrinsic merit, or from tbe praise due to bim as an 
originator : on tbe contrary, be, in tbis respect, only sbares tbe 
fate common to all those wbo open a new patb in literature or art, 
inviting imitators wbose numbers oppress, if tbey do not over- 
wbelm tbem : tbat Defoe bas not since been surpassed in tbis 
species of writing is far more tban we can venture to assert ; yet 
it sbould be recollected tbat it i« tbe first navigator of tbe Atlantic, 
not tbose wbo cross it in a modern steam-boat, wbo claims tbe 
bomage of our admiration. 

Tbose wbo are unacquainted witb Defoe tbe essayist, as well 
as Defoe tbe novelist, will not be able to appreciate tbe extent of 
our author's powers, and tbe variety of bis information. But we 
bave already dwelt upon the ** Review " at greater lengtb tban is 
onsistent witb tbe brevity we must perforce observe : it is time, 
tberefore, to proceed witb our narrative. Mr. Harley, afterwards 
earl of Oxford, bappened, by a cbange in tbe ministry, to come 
into power, after Defoe bad been about two years in confinement, 
and being able to appreciate bis abilities — perbaps anxious to 
secure tbem in bis own support, be represented bis case to tbe 
queen, wbo generously sent a sum of money to bis wife and 
family, and anotber to discbarge bis iine and prison expenses. 
Immediately upon bis liberation Defoe retired to Bury St. £d- 
mund's. It was there tbat be wrote bis masterly treatise, entitled 
** Giving Alms no Cbarity," in whicb be displays great practical 
knowledge, witb enlarged and sound views on tbe* causes of po- 
verty, and on tbe employment of tbe poor. . In tbe intervals of 
these and otber oecapations, for it sbould be obterved that be 



DANIEL DEFOE. XIX 

Lad been sent in 1705 by Harley on a secret mission to tbe con- 
tinent, tbe express object of wbich has not transpired, — ^he found 
leisure to employ bis pen on otber subjects, and anticipating bis 
future cbaracter of a romance writer, be invented tbe '* true 
narrative " of Mrs. Veal's apparition, wbicb was prefixed to a 
translation of Drelincourt . on Deatb. Tbe supposed stranger 
from tbe otber world is made to recommend tbat Performance ; . 
and, as sucb supematural testimony was irresistible, tbe wbole 
impression, wbicb bad before lain on tbe bookseller's sbelves, was 
quickly sold, and was succeeded by many otbers, tbe work baving 
since passed tbrough forty different editions. Tbis stratagem 
certainly does bonour to Defoe's ingenuity and penetration ; yet 
wbetber it be entirely juslifiable, considering tbe tendency of tbe 
deception, may be doubted. 

Leaving for awbile tbe account of bis literary career, we must 
now briefly notice a very important national subject, namely, tbe 
Union witb Scotland, in wbicb, besides warmly advocating tbe 
measure witb bis pen, Defoe was personally employed. At tbe 
recoramendation of Harley and Lord Godoipbin, by whom he 
bad been recommended to tbe queen, be was sent on a mission to 
Edinburgh, in wbicb city be arrived in October, 1706. Here, it 
shoidd seem, be was cbiefly employed in making calculations re- 
lating to trade and taxes, for tbe information of tbe committees of 
parliament ; be also occupied bimself in collecting those docu- 
ments relative to tbe Union wbicb be afterwards published. 
Besides this, be proposed several plans for encouraging tbe 
manufactures, and for proraoting tbe trade, wealth, and maritime 
resources of Scotland. After an absence of about sixteen montbs, 
he returned to England in 1708, when bis Services obtained for hini, 
from tbe ministry, an appointment witb a fixed salary ; and as it 
does not appear wbat was tbe nature of the office be beld, we 
may conclude it to bave been merely a sinecure. Almost imme- 
diately afterwards, bis patron Harley was dismissed from office, 
tbrough tbe persevering intrigues of the duchess of Marlborough, 
whom he bad supplanted in the queen 's favour, an event that 
suddenly overclouded Defoe's political prospects. Without com- 
promising bis principles, bowever, he espoused.the interest of the 
succeeding ministry; but although Godoipbin treated bim witb 
consideration, he suffered bis pension to fall into arrears, perhaps 
in consequence of Defoe's long absence in Scotland, wlüther he 
was again despatched a few montbs afterwards, upon some seetet 



XX BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OP 

business. In the foUowing year, 1 709, Defoe published a work 
which, to use the.words of an eminent living critic, " places him 
amongst the soundest historians of tbe day;" and wbicb, accord- 
ing to tbe testimony of anotber, would bave handed down bis 
name to posterity, even bad he not immortalized bimself by 
Robinson Crusoe. Thiis was bis " History of tbe Union," which 
is as interesting for tbe minute descriptions it gires of the actors 
and incidents in that important event, as for the documents it 
furnishes. 

Still engaged in politics, Defoe's continued and severe attacks 
against tbe Tories and high-church party so exasperated them, 
that they attempted to suppress bis writings, and even threatened 
bim with prosecutions : their animosity, however, did not procure 
for bim, from tbose wbose cause he defended, a degree of favour 
and Support at all commensurate with bis long and able Services. 
He bad also to contend with fresh pecuniary losses in some con- 
cern in which he was engaged (1712) with Mr. Wood, a mercer 
of Colesbill in Warwicksbire, and with tbe personal abuse with 
which bis character was assailed by writers who reflected updn 
bim as being a knavish bankrupt. But bis political career was 
now drawing to its close : having canied on bis " Review " 
for raore than nine years, he finally relinquished it in May, 1713, 
wben he was again a prisoner in Newgate upon an indictment 
preferred against him by bis friends tbe Whigs, as tbe author of 
three treasonable Jacobitical pamphlets; whereas the pubHcatioDB 
in question were of a directly opposite tendency. The queen 
once more bestowed a free pardon on bim, and the malice of bis 
numerous enemies was defeated. From tbis time he employed 
bis pen only occasionally on political subjects. By the accession 
of George I. to tbe throne, Defoe gained nothing, although bis 
writings bad strenuously pleaded tbe cause of the House of 
Hanover during the late reign; and although he bad superior 
Claims upon public gratitude for the zeal with which, during 
nearly tbirty years, he bad not only advocated religious and 
political independence, but endeavoured to call attention to sub- 
jects of paramount importance to tbe national prosperity. That 
tbis neglect sbould, in spite of all bis pbilosopby, have occasioned 
bim considerable mortification, is not much to be wondered at; 
and to the efiect it bad upon bis health was attributed an 
apoplectic attack in tbe year 1715, from which be continued to 
sufier for six months. 



BANIEL DEFOE. XXI 

After so serious a blow Iq bis Constitution, and at his advanced 
period of life, it might hav6 been expected that he would now 
lay aaide his pen, — at least remit in his exertions. Yet it was 
sabsequently to this apparently cloudy epoch of his career that 
the hrightest and most durable of his literary wreaths was won. 
Great versatility of talent is not often accompanied by an equal 
degree of vigour and raciness of intellect ; when, however, such 
does happen to be the case, it should seem that the former is 
rather beneficial than otherwise to its possessor, and that change 
of subject serves to recruit the mental energies. Defoe at least 
may be quoted as an extraordinary instance of ryuveneacency 
of mind in the decline of years. We do not here allude to his 
« Family Instructor," although that performance is one of the 
most ▼alnable and useful Systems of practical morality in our lan- 
gaage, and has, doubtless, been far more beneficial to society 
than many works of even splendid celebrity. It is the series 
of noyels which now appear in quick succession from his pen, 
that have won for him an imperishable reputation among the 
worthies of English literature : nor will his claims upon our 
admirmtion be diminished by considering the extravagant, unna^ 
tmal BjTstem of romance-writing which had tili then prevailed, 
where every thing was either so artificial or so shadowy, that not 
a glimpse of real life was to be discerned. In Defoe 's narratives, 
on the contrary, there is such an air of downright matter-of-fact 
and unadomed truth, as to amount to actual deception ; thereby 
preventing us from crediting the author with any merit on the 
score of imagination, contrivance, or invention. Of this the 
reader will be amply convinced by the perusal of the present 
work, on which it is not necessary that we should expatiate, and 
we shall therefore merely advert to the circumstances connected 
with its origin and publication. The History of Robinson Crusoe 
was first published in the year 1719, and its popularity may be 
Said to have been established immediately, since four editions 
were called for in about as many months, a circumstance at that 
time almost unprecedented in the annals of literature. It rarely 
happens that an author's expectations are surpassed by the success 
of his work, however astonishing it may seem to others : yet per« 
haps even Defoe himself did not venture to look forward to such 
a welcome on the part of the public, after the repulses he had 
experienced on that of the booksellers ; for incredible as it now 
appears, the manuscript of the work had been ofiered to, and 
b2 



XXU BI06RAPHICAL SKETCH OF 

rejected by, every one in the trade, in which respect its destiny 
was not only similar to that of Paradise Lost, but of two of the 
most celebrated literary productions of the present day, namely, 
Waverley and Childe Harold ; the former of which remained in 
manuscript ten years, without any probability of ever seeing the 
light, although its fame has since extended itself wherever the 
English language is known — nay more, has even penetrated the 
wilds of Siberia. 

Astonishing as was the success of Defoe's romance, it did not 
deter the envious from attempting to disparage it. The materials, 
it was Said, were either fiirnished by, or surreptitiously obtained 
from, Alexander Selkirk, a mariner who had resided for four years 
in the desert island of Juan Fernandez, and returned to England 
in 1711. Very probably, his story, which then excited consider- 
able interest and attention, did suggest'to Defoe the idea of 
writing his romance ; but all the details and incidents are entirely 
his own. Most certainly Defoe had obtained no papers or written 
documents from Selkirk, as the latter had none to communicate. 
So far, however, have others been from taxing our author with pla- 
giarism, that they have, on the contrary, charged him with putting. 
on paper a heap of chimaeras, to impose upon public credulity. 
Thus these two contradictory charges reciprocally destroy eaeh 
other. An attempt has also been made to rob him entirely of the 
brightest jewel in his literary crown, by denying him to have 
been the author of Robinson Crusoe, which has been ascribed, by 
some, to Arbuthnot ; by others, to Defoe's patron, the first earl 
of Oxford. Those who have wished to gain credit for the latter 
opinion, assert that it was composed by that nobleman during his 
imprisonment in the Tower, in 1715, on a charge of high treason; 
and they have argued that the whole tone of the work, especially 
of that part towards the conclusion where an account is given of 
the exiled nobles of Muscovy, is what would naturally be sug- 
gested by the solitude of a prison. Yet as far as internal evidence 
is concerned, that is, indisputably, much stronger in favour of 
Defoe ; for he had not only been familiär with imprisonment, but 
was also by his acquaintance with foreign countries, and his 
experience in business and traffic, much better qualified to pro- 
duce a work which displays so much practical knowledge of things, 
as well as of man. Indeed, nothing short of the most conclusive 
and undeniable testimony of facts to the contrary can at all 
invalidate his claims to be cunsiaered as the real author. Had 



DANIEL DEFOE. XXiÜ 

Robinson Crusoe been the only production of the kind that 
proceeded from bis pen, tbere might be better reason for doubting 
wbether he wrote it; but the various other novels, or rather 
pieces of üctitious biography, which he produced, form an addi- 
tional reason for attributing it to him. 

Of these latter we must here speak far more briefly than they 
deserve: the " History of Moll Flanders," which was published 
in 1721, is an admirably drawn picture of life, and contains an 
excellent moral lesson, although many of the seenes it necessarily 
discloses are coarse and revolting. * The " Life of Colonel Jaque " 
contains also much able delineation of real life ; and in that part 
of the narrative which gives an' account of the hero's residence 
in Virginia, Defoe has humanely advocated the cause of the 
negro slaves. His " Memoirs of a Cavalier," which work is sup- 
posed to have been written about the same time, is rather history 
attired in the form of an iamginary piece of biography, than a 
romance. Indeed, all the details are so circumstantial and accu- 
rate, that it has been mistaken for a genuine narrative of the 
eyents of the civil wars in England and Germany ; and it was 
actually recommended as the very best account of • them 
by the great Lord Chatham, with whom it was a favourite book. 
In like manner our author's " History of the Plague " imposed 
upon Dr. Mead, and since upon others, who have referred to it as 
an authentic document, and a true recital of that great national 
calamity. Herehe is the rival of Thucydides and Boccaccio; 
and depicts the horrors of pestilence as vividly and as masterly 
as Poussin. It may, however, be imagined by some that this is 
rather suspicious praise, and that the work of fiction which can 
pass as true history must be cold, matter-of-fact, and tarne — repul- 
sive and dry. It is not, however, in the formal gravity of style 
that these works resemble history ; but they imitate and reflect 
the features of the past in their most interesting, if not their most 
engaging aspect. 

Besides the preceding, and one or two other productions of a 
similar cast, Defoe produced that very excellent and populär 
work entitled "Religious Courtship," which was first published 
in 1722, and afterwards went through numerous editions. This 
and his " Family Instructor " are replete with lessons of the 
soundcst practical wisdom, and place their author among the 
most extensively useful of our English moralists. 

Here, however, we must terminate our sketch, having baieVy 



XXIV 



BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF DANIEL DEFOE. 



leflt ourselves room to mention a few particulars relative to the 
close of bis life. Allhough the profits accruiiig from bis publica- 
tions bad of late been considerable, and be had been able to give 
a portion to bis daugbter Sophia, who married Mr. Baker, the 
celebrated natural philosopber, in 1729, yet he was still doomed 
to contend with misfortune. In addition to the affliction of bodily 
infirmity and severe pain, be again feil into great pecuniary 
difficulties, and was even arrested. 11 e appears, bowever, to 
bave recovered bis liberty witbin a short time : but the unnatural 
conduct of bis son, who refused to give up the property that bad 
been entrusted to bim, with the view of securing a provision to 
his mother and two unmarried'sisters, was a beavier blow tbau 
any be bad before experienced; and the mental anguish it 
occasioned doubtiess accelerated bis death, which occurred on the 
24tb of April, 1731. Since that period more than a Century bas 
elapsed; and in that interval many names of considerable emi- 
nence in their day bave sunk into irretrievable oblivion ; Defoe, 
also, bas lost some portion of the celebrity be enjoyed with his 
contemporaries : yet, after every deduction, enougli remains to 
entitle him to a place among the Worthies of Englisb literature, 
for should all bis other productions be forgotten, his Robinson 
Crusoe must remain imperisbable. 




ROBINSON CRUSOE, 



SECTION I. 

' mOBINSON'S FAMILY, ETC.— HIS ELOPEMENT PROM 111 S PAREXTS, 

I WAS boni in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a good 
Uy, though not of thai country, my father belog a foreigner 
'Vf Bremen, namcd Kreutznaer, who settled first at Hüll* He 
^ot a göod estate by mcrcbandiäe, and lea\^ng off bis trade^ 
Uvcd afterwards at York ; from wbence he had married my 
tnother, whose relationa vrere named Robinson, a very good 
lamily in tLat country, and after whom I was so called, tbat is 
to say, Robinson Kreiitzuaer 5 hiit, by the usual oorruption of 
wordä in England, we are now called, nay, we call ourselves, 
and write our name, Crusoe ; and so my' companions always 
called me. 

I had two eider brotliers, one of wbora was lieutenant-colonel 
to an Eugliah regiment of foot in Flanders, formerly commanded 
by tbe famoujs Colonel Lockhart, and was killed at the battle 
ntur Dunkirk against the Spaniards. What became of myl 
»erond brother, 1 never knew, any more than my fatber and | 
molher did know what was become of me. J 

Being the tbird son of the family, and not bred to any trade, 
my bead began to be filled very early with rambling thongbts« 
My fAther, who was very aged, had giveu mo a competent sliare 



2 ADTENTUKES OP 

of learning, as far as house education and a cojjutry free school 
generally go, and designed me for the law : but I would be 
satisfied with nothing but going to sea ; andffiay inclination to 
this lad me so strongly a^ainst the will, nay, the commands of 
my father, and against all the entreaties and persuasions of my 
mother and other firiends, that there seemed to be something 
fatal in that propension of nat^re, tending directly to the life of 
misery which was to befall me.7 

My father, a wise and grave'ro.n, gave me serious and excellent 
counsel against what he foresaw was my design. He called me 
one moming into his Chamber, where he was confined by the 
gout, and ex^ostulated very warmly with me upon this subject : 
he asked me what reasons, more than a mere wandering incli- 
nation, I had for leaying his house, and my native country, where 
I might be well introduced, and had a prospect of raising my 
fortune, by application and industry, with a life of ease and 
pleasure. He told me it was men of desperate fortunes, on one 
hand, or of superior fortunes, on the other, who went abroad 
upon adventures, aspiring to rise by enterprise, and make them- 
selves famous in imdertakings of a nature out of the common 
road ; that th^ things were all either too far above me, or too 
far below me y^a t mine was the middle State, or what might be 
called the upper Station of low life, which he had found, by long 
experience, was t])£ best State in the world, the most smted to 
human happinessTlnot exposed to the miseries and hardships, 
the labour and suSerings, of the mechanic part of mankind, and 
not embarrassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of 
the Upper part of mankind : he told me, I might judge of the 
happiness of this state by one thing, viz. that this was the State 
of life which all other people envied ; that kings have frequently 
lamented the miserable consequences of being bom to great 
things, and wished they had been placed in the middle of two 
extremes, between the mean and the great ; that the wise man 
gave his testimony to this as the just Standard of true felicity, 
"when he prayed to have " neither poverty nor riches." 

He bade me observe it, and I should always find, that the 
calamities of life were shared among the upper and lowerpart of 
mankind ; but that the middle Station had the fewest disasters, 
and was not exposed to so many vicissitudes as the higher or 
lower part of mankind : nay, they were not subjected to so many 
distempers and imeasinesses, either of body or mind, as those 
were, who, by vicious living, luxury, and extravagancies, on one 
hand, or, by hard labour, want of necessaries, and mean and 
insufficient diet, on the other hand, bring distempers upon them- 
selves by the natural consequences of their way of living; that 

1tba^T3Ji^y|ft 8^fl±inn of life was calculated for all kind of virtues, 
and all Snd oi enjoyments ; that peace and plenty were the 
handmaids of a middle fortune; that temperance, moderation, 



1 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3 

quletness, health, society, all agreeable diversions, and all desir- 
able pleasures were the blessings attending the middle Station of 
life ; that this way men went silently and smoothly through the 
World, and comfortably out of it, not embarrassed with the 
labours of the hands or of the head, not sold to the life of slavery 
for daily bread, or harassed with perplexed circumstances, which 
rob the soul of peace, and the body of rest ; not enraged with 
the passion of envy, or secret buming lust of ambition fbr great 
things; but, in easy circumstances, sliding gen tly through the 
World, and sensibly tasting the sweets of üving, without the 
bitter ; feeling that they are happy, and leaming by every day's 
experience, to know it more sensibly 

After this he pressed me eamestly, and in the most affectionate 
manner, not to play the young man, nor to precipitate myself 
into miseries which nature, and the Station of life I was born in, 
seemed to have provided against ; that I was under no necessity 
of seeking my bread ; that he would do well for me, and endea- 
vour to enter me fairly into the Station of life which he had been 
just recommending to me ; and that if I was not very easy and 
happy in the world, it must be my mere fate, or fault, that must 
hinder it ; and that he should have nothing to answer for, having 
thus discharged bis duty in waming me against measures which 
he knew would be to my hurt : in a word, that as he woidd do 
very kind things for me if I would stay and settle at home as he 
directed ; so he would not have so much band in my misfortunes 
as to give me any encouragement to go away : and, to close all, 
he told me I had my eider brother for an example, to whom he 
had used the same eamest persuasions to keep him from going 
into the Low Country wars ; but could not prevail, his young S 
desires prompting him to run into the army, where he was küled ; Jl » [\ ( 
and though, he said, he would not cease to nray fqy me^yeJitJiÄ i ' 
would venture to saj t^jf^e^' t^a^^ tHs fbolislJLstep, <^ 

Qodwottld"no£J5 tess m e^ a^^äl would have leisure, hereafter, to 0^ 
iei«fit' TfyTWri5av!Hg"il€glected his counsel, when there might be f 
none to assist in my recovery. ^ 

I observed, in this last part of his discourse, which was truly 
^rophetic, though, I suppose, my father did not know it to be so 
hitl ia o lfi I say, I observed the tears run down his face very 
plentifully, especially when he spoke of my bröTBShswho was 
killed ; and that, when he s p^l^p "^^Y^fTi^ST ife isure tj r epent, ( 
and nong ^Hp a«^^st mft- he was so moved. that he hrökft on the ^^^ ^. •' 
flfSCSurse, and told me his heart was so fuU, he could say no 
more to me. 

I was sincerely affected with this discourse ; as, indeed, who 
could be otherwise ? and I resolved not to think of going abroad 
any more, but to settle at home, according to my father's desire. 
But alas ! a few days wore it all off: and, in short, to prevent 
any of my father's further importunities, in a few weeks after T 



4 ADVENTÜRES OP 

resolved to run qidte away from him. However, I did not act 
so hastily, neither, as my first heat of resolutiou prompted ; but 
I took my motber, at a time wben I tbougbt ber a litüe plea- 
santer tban ordinary, and told ber tbat my tbougbts were so 
entirely bent upon seeing tbe world, tbat I sbould never settle 
to anytbing witb resolution enougb to go tbrougb witb it, and 
my fatber bad better give me bis consent tban force me to go 
witbout it ; tbat I was now eigbteen years old, wbicb was too 
late to go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an attomey ; 
tbat I was sure, if I did, I sbould never serve out my time, and 
I sbould certainly run awav from my master before my time was 
out, and go to sea ; and if sbe would speak to my fatber to let 
me make but one voyage abroad, if I came bome aga'm, and did 
not like it, I would go no more ; and I would promise by a 
double diligence, to recover tbe time I bad lost. 

Tbis put my motber into a great passion : sbe told me sbe 
knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my fatber upon any 
sucb a subject ; tbat be knew too well wbat was my interest to 
give bis consent to anytbing so mucb for my burt ; and tbat sbe 
wondered bow I could tbink of any sucb tbing, after sucb a 
discourse as I bad from my fatber, and sucb kind and tender 
expressions as sbe knew my fatber bad used to me ; and tbat, 
in sbort, if I would ruin myself, tbere was no belp for me ; but 
I migbt depend I sbould never bave tbeir consent to it : tbat for 
ber part, sbe would not bave so mucb band in my destruction ; 
and I sbould never bave it to say, tbat my motber was willing ' 
wben my fatber was no(. 

Tbougb my motber refused to move it to my fatber, yet, as I 
bave beard afterwards, sbe reported all tbe discourse to bim ; 
and tbat my fatbACy.4^er sbowing a great concem at it, said to 
ber witb a sigbjs^at boy migbt be bappy if be would stay at 
bome ; but if be goes abcoaxl, be will be tbe most miserable 
-> wretcb tbat ever was bornjf I can give no consent to it. 

It was not tili almost a year after tbis tbat I broke loose ; 
tbougb in tbe mean time I continued obstinately deaf to all 
proposals of settling to business, and frequently expostulating 
witb my fatber and motber about tbeir being so positively deter- 
mined against wbat tbey knew my inclinations prompted me to. 
But being one day at Hüll, wbitber I went casually, and witliout 
any purpose of making an elopement at tbat time, and one of 
my companions tben going to London by sea in bis fatber's sbip, 
and prorapting me to go witb tbem by tbe common allurement 
of seafj^mgkmen, viz. tbat it sbould cost me notbing for my 
passag ^I co nsiüted neitber fatber nor motber any more, nor so 
v,,^ mucb as^Sßiit tbem word of it ; but jMt tbem to bear of it as 
— -^ tbey migbt, witbout asking God's tilessing, or my fatber's, 
witbout any consideratie»-o£^u<cumstances or consequences, and 
in an ill bour, God knows. ] 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



W. 



SECTION IL 

FIB^ST ADVENTURES AT SEÄ, AND EXPERIENCE OF A MARITIMJ; LEFE. 
VOYAGE TO GUINEA. 

ÖN the Ist September, 1651, 1 went on board a sbip bound for 
LoDdon. Never auy young adventiirer's misfortiines, I believej 
began younger, or continiied longer, tban niioe, The sliip bad 
HO sooner got out of tbe Htimber, thati the wind began lo bluw, 
and the wavea to rise^ in a most iVightful manner ; and as I bad 
never beeil at sea bcfure, 1 was tnost inexpressibly sick in body, 
aud terrified in mind : I began now seriously to reflect lipon 
what I bad done^ and how jually I was overiaken by tbe jadg- 
inent of Heaven^ for wickedly leaving my iather's house. AU 
the good coüiiiiels of my parents, my fatber's tears, and my 
motber s eatreaties, came uow fresb into my niiud ; and my con- 
sciencc, whicb was not yct come to the \ntch oi" bardness to 
wliicb it ha» beeo since, reproached me witb the contempt of 
ad vice, and the abandonmeut of my duty* 

All tbis wbüe tbe storm increased, and tbe sea, whicb I bad 
ne%"er bcen upon before, weut very bigb, tbou^h nothing like 
1» hjit I bave seen many times since ; no, uor what I saw a few 
days afUir ; but» such as it was, enou^^b to affect me then, wbo 
was but A young sailor, and had never known anythin^ of the 
matter» I expected every wave would have swallowed us up, 
and tbat every tiroe tbe sbip feil down, as I tbougbt, in tne 
trougb or boUow of tbe sea^ we sbould ne\'er rise more ; and in 
tbis Hgony of mind I made many vows and resolutions, that if it 
would please God to spare my Ufe tbis voyage, if ever I got my 
foat oncc on dry land, 1 woidd go directly home to my father, 
and never sei it into a sbip again whde 1 lived ; that I would 
take hin advice, aud never run myself into such misehes aa these 



6 ADVENTÜRBS OP 

any more. Now I saw plainly the goodness of his observations 
about tbe middle Station of life ; bow easy, bow comfortable, be 
bad lived all bis days, and never bad been exposed to tempests 
at sea or troubles on sbore ; and I resolved that I would, üke a 
true repenting prodigal, go bome to my father. 

Tbese wise and sober tbougbts continued during tbe stonn, 
and indeed some time after ; but tbe next day, as Üie wind was 
abated, and tbe sea calmer, I began to be a little inured to it. 
However, I was very grave tbat day, being also a little sea-sick 
still : but towards nigbt tbe weatber cleared up, tbe wind was 
quite over, and a cbarming fine evening foUowed ; tbe sun went 
down perfectly elear, and rose so tbe next morning ; and baving 
little or no wind, and a smootb sea, tbe sun sbining upon it, tbe 
sigbt was, as I tbougbt, tbe most deligbtful tbat I ever saw. 

I bad slept well in tbe nigbt, and was now no more sea-sick, 
but very cbeerful, looking witb wonder upon tbe sea tbat was so 
rougb and terrible tbe day before, and could be so calm and 
pleasant in a little time after. 

And now, lest my good resolutions sbould continue, my com- 
panion, wbo bad indeed enticed me away, came to me, and said, 
Well, Bob, clapping me on tbe sboulder, bow do you do after it ? 
I Warrant you you were frigbtened, wa'n't you, last nigbt, wben 
it blew but a cap-ftdl of wind? — A cap-full, do you call it? said 
I ; 'twas a terrible storm. — A storm, you fool ! replies be, do you 
call tbat a storm ? Wby, it was notbing at all ; give us but a 
good sbip, and sea-room, and we tbink notbing of sucb a squall 
of wind as tbat : you are but a fresb-water sailor, Bob ; come, 
let US make a bowl of puncb, and well fordet all tbat. D'ye see 
wbat cbarming weatber 'tis now ? To make sbort tbis sad part 
of my Story, we went tbe way of all sailors j tbe puncb was 
made, and I was made drunk witb it; and in tbat one nigbt's 
wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all my reflections upon 
my past conduct, and all my resolutions for tbe ftiture. In a 
Word, as tbe sea was retumed to its smootbness of surface and 
settled calmness by tbe abatement of tbe storm, so tbe burry of 
my tbougbts being over, my fears and apprebensions of being 
swallowed up by tbe sea forgotten, and tbe current of my former 
desires retumed, I entirely forgot tbe vows and promises I bad 
made in my distress. I found, indeed, some intervals of reflec- 
tion ; and serious tbougbts did, as it were, endeavour to retum 
again sometimes ; but I sbook tbem off and roused myself from 
tbem, as it were from a distemper, and, applying myself to drink 
and Company, soon mastered tbe retum of those fits — for so I 
called tbem ; and I bad in five or six days got as complete a 
victory over conscience as any young sinner, tbat resolved not to 
be troubled witb it, could desire. But I was to bave anotber 
trial for it still ; and Providence, as in sucb cases generally it 
does, resolved to leave me entirely witbout excuse : for if I would 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 7 

not take this for a deliverance^ tlie next was to be sucli a one as 
the worst and most Jiardened wretcb among us would confess 
both tbe danger and tbe mercy of. Tbe sixtit day of our being 
at sea we came into Yarmouib Roads ; tbe wind baving been 
contrary and tbe weatber calm, we bad made but little way since 
the storm. Here we were obliged to come to an ancbor, and 
bere we lay, tbe wind continuing contrary, viz. at soutb-west, 
for seven or eigbt days, during wbicb time a great many sbips 
from Newcastle came into tbe same roads, as tbe common bar- 
bour wbere tbe sbips migbt wait for a wind for tbe river Tbames. 
We bad not, bowever, rid bere so long, but we sbould bave tided 
up tbe river, but tbat tbe wind blew too fresb ; and, after we 
bad lain four or five days, blew very bard. However, tbe roads 
being reckoned as good as a barbour, tbe ancborage good, and 
our ground tackle very strong, our men were unconcemed, and 
not in tbe least apprebensive of danger, but spent tbe time in 
rest and inirtb, after tbe manner of the sea. But tbe eigbtb day, 
in tbe moming, tbe wind increased, and we bad all bands at 
work to strike our topmasts, and make everything snug and 
dose, tbat tbe ship migbt ride as easy as possible. By noon tbe 
sea went very high indeed, and our ship rode forecastle in, 
sbipped several seas, and we tbougbt, once or twice, our ancbor 
baa come bome ; upon wbicb our master ordered out tbe sheet 
ancbor ; so tbat we rode witb two ancbors abead, and tbe cables 
veered out to tbe better end. 

By tbis time it blew a terrible storm indeed ; and now I began 
to See terror and amazement in the faces of even the seamen 
tbemselves. Tbe master was vigilant üi tbe business of preserv- 
ing tbe ship ; but, as be went in and out of bis cabin by me, I 
could bear bim softly say to himself several times, Lord, be 
merciful to us ! we shall be all lost ; we shall be all undone ! and 
tbe like. During these first hurries I was stupid, lying still in 
my cabin, wbicb was in the steerage, and cannot describe my 
temper. I could i ll reassume^the first penitence, wbicb I bad 
so apparently träinpreTi^on, and bardened myself against; 
rtböught tbat the bitterness of deatb häd been past, and tbat 
tbis would be nothing too, like the first : but wben the master 
himself came by me, as I said just now, and said we sbould be 
all lost, I was dreadfuUy frightened. I got up out of my cabin, 
and looked out ; but such a dismal sight I never saw ; tbe sea 
went mountains high, and broke upon us every three or four 
minutes. Wben I could look about, I could see nothing but 
distress around us ; two ships, tbat rid near us, we found bad 
cut their masts by the board, being deeply laden ; and our men 
cried out tbat a ship, which rid about a mile abead of us, was 
foundered. Two more ships being driven from their ancbors, 
were run out of the roads to sea, at all adventures, and tbat with 
not a mast standing. The light ships fared the best, as not so 



8 ADVENTÜRES OP 

much labouring in the sea ; bat two or three of tliem drove, and 
came close by us, running away, with OQly their spritsails out^ 
before the wind. Toward evening) the mate and boatswain 
begged the master of our ship to let them cut away the fore- 
mast, which he was very loath to do ; bat the boatswain pro- 
testing to him, that if he did not, the ship would foiinder, he 
consented; and when they had cut away the foremast, the 
mainmast stood so loose, and shook the ship so much, they 
were obliged to cut it away also, and make a clear deck. 

Any one may judge what a condition I must be in at all this, 
who was but a young sailor, and who had been in such a fright 
before at bot a fittle. But if I can express, at this distance, the 
thoughts I had about me at that time, I was in tenfold more 
horror of mind upon account of my former convictions, and the 
having returned nrom them to the resolutions I had wickedly 
taken at first, than I was at death itself ; and these, added to tfa« 
terror of the storm, put me into such a condition, that I Can by 
no words describe it ; but the worst was not come yet ; the stonn 
continued with such fury, that the seamen themselves acknow- 
ledged they had never known a worse. We had a good ship, bat 
she was deep laden, and so wallowed in the sea, that the seamen 
every now and then cried out she would founder. It was my 
advantage, in one respect, that I did not know what they meant 
hy founder, tili I inquired. However, the storm was so violent, 
that I saw what is not often seen, the master, the boatswain, 
and some others, more sensible than the rest, at their prayers, 
and expecting every moment the ship would go to the bottom. 
In the middle of the night, and ander all the rest of our dis- 
tresses, one of the men, that had been down on purpose to see, 
cried out, we had sprung a leak ; another said there was four 
feet water in the hold. Then aU hands were called to the pump. 
At that very word my heart, as I thou^ht, died within me, and 
I feil backwards upon the side of my bed, where I sat in the 
cabin. However, the men roused me, and told me that I, who 
was able to do nothing before, was as well able to pump as 
another: at which I stirred up and went to the pump, and 
worked very heartily. While this was doing, the master seeing 
some light coUiers, who, not able to ride out the storm, were 
obliged to slip and run away to sea, and would not come neap 
US, ordered us to fire a gun, as a signal of distress. I, who knew 
nothing what that meant, was so surprised, that I thought the 
ship had broke, or some dreadful thing had happened. In a 
Word, I was so surprised, that I feil down in a swoon. As this 
was a time when everybody had his own life to think of, no one 
minded me, or what was become of me : but another man 
atepped up to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his foot, 
let me lie, thinking I had been dead ; .and it was a great while 
before I came to myself. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 9 

We worked on ; but the water increasing in the hold, it was 
apparent that the ship would founder ; and though the storm 
b^an to abate a little, yet as it was not possible she could swim 
tili we might nm into a port, so the master continued firing ^ 
gims for help ; and a light ship, who had rid it out jnst ahead 
of US, ventured a boat out to help us. It was with Üie utmost 
hazard the boat came near us, but it was impossible for us to 
get on board, or for the boat to Ue near the ship 's side ; tili at 
last the men rowing very heartily, and venturing their lives to 
save ours, our men cast them a rope over the stem with a buoy 
to it, and then veered it out a great length, which they, after 
great labour and hazard, took hold of, and we hauled them close 
under our stem, and got all into their boat. It was to no pur> 
pose for them or us, after we were in the boat, to think of reach- 
ing their own ship ; so all agreed to let her drive, and only to 
pull her in towards shore as much as we could : and our master 
promised them, that if the boat was staved upon shore, he would 
make it good to their master;. so partly rowing, and partly 
driving, our boat went away to the northward, sloping towards 
the shore almost as far as Wintertou-Ness. 

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our 
ship when we saw her sink ; and then I understood, for the first 
time, what was meant by a ship foundering in the sea. I must 
acknowledge, I had haroly eyes to look up when the seamen 
told me she was sinking ; for, from that moment, they rather 
put me into the boat, than that I might be said to go in. My 
heart was, as it were, dead within me, partly with fright, partly 
with horror of mind, and the thoughts of what was yet before 
me. 

While we were in this condition, tue men yet labouring at the 
oar to bring the boat near the shore, we could see (when, our 
boat mounting the waves, we were able to see the shore) a 
great many people running along the Strand, to assist us when 
we should come near; but we made slow way towards the 
shore ; nor were we able to reach it, tili, being past the light- 
house at Winterton, the shore falls off to the westward, towards 
Cromer, and so the land broke off a little the violence of the 
wind. Here we got in, and, though not without much difficulty, 
got all safe on shore, and walked afterwards on foot to Yar- 
mouth ; where, as unfortunate men, we were used with great 
humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who assigned 
us good quarters, as by the particular merchants and owners of 
ships : and had money given us sufficient to carry us either to 
London or back to Hüll, as we thought fit. .T* 

Had I_now hadthe sjense^tP bÄYf £P^ feSckjto^H^.anau 
ha ve gone ho me.TT5CT1 bJe^^ h^PJ^ Ä^^dl^Jv^fSK^J^n ^""^l^m^ *^ 






:) 



10 ADVENTÜRES OP 

Yarmoutli Roads, it was a great while before he had any 
assurance that I was not drowned. 

i*' But mj iiyiai^pushed me on with an obstinacy that nothing 
could resist ; and though I had several times loud calls from my 
reason, and my more composed judgment, to go home, yet I had 
no power to do it. — I know not what to call this, nor will I urge 
that it is a secret, overruling decree, that hurries us on to be the 
Instruments of our own destruction, even though it be before us, 
and that we rush upon it with our eyes open. Certainly, nothing 
but Bome such decreed unavoidable misery attending, and which 
it was impossible for me to escape, could have pushed me for- 
\ ward agamst the calm reasouings and persuasions of m^ most 
' retired thoughts, and against two such visible instructions as 
I had met with in my first attempt. 

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and who 

was the master's son, was now less forward than I : the first 

time he spoke to me after we were at Yarmouth, which was not 

tili two or three days, for we were separated in the town to 

several quarters ; I say, the iirst time he saw me, it appeared 

his tone was altered, and, lookiug Mery melancholy, and shaking 

bis head, he asked me how I did; telling his father who I was, 

and how I had come this voyage only for a trial, in order to go 

farther abroad. His father, turning to me, with a grave and 

concerned tone, Youxi^^jaian, jsays he, you ought iieyer to-go to 

y sea any morej you ought to take this for a j^lain ai^d vigble 

\ tököri, thät you are not to be a seafarfng man.— WEy, sur ? said 

I; triil ytm go-to sea no more?— That is another case, said he; 

it is my callmg, and therefore my duty ; but as you made this 

voyage for a trial, you see what a taste Heaven has given you 

of what you are to expect if you persist. Perhaps this has 

all befallen us on your accouut, like Jonah in the ship of Tar^ 

shish. — Pray, contmues he, what are you, and on what account 

did you go to sea ? Upon that I told him some of my story ; 

at the end of which he burst out with a stränge kind of passion. 

-What had I done, said he, that such an unhappy wretch should 

come into my ship ? I would not set my foot in the same ship 

with thee again for a thousand pounds. This indeed was, as I 

Said, an excursion of his spirits, which were yet agitated by the 

sense of his loss, and was farther than he could have authority 

Mto go. — However, he afterwards talked very gravely to me; 

'. «fexhorted me to go back to my father, and not tempt Providence 

'^ ^ |to my ruiu; told me, I might see a visible band of Heaven 

W'" against me ; and, young man, said he, depend upon it, if you do 

f\|J' not go back, wherever you go, you will meet with nothing but 

^ disasters and disappointments, tili your father's words are M- 

filled upon you. 

We parted soon after, for I made him little answer, and I saw 
him no more: which way he went, I know not: as fbr me, 



ftOBINSON cftuaoE. 



11 



Laving somc irioueT in my pockct, I travellod to London bv 
land ; and there, as well as on tbe road» had tnany Btni|2;gles witli 
inyself Tvhat coarse of life I sliould tiike, imd w'hether I should 
go bome or go to »ea, As to goin^ liome, sbanve opposed the 
best molions that ofTered to my tlioughts ; and it immediately 
occurred to me bow I should be laiigbed at amon^ the neigb- 
bours, and sboiild be asbamed to see, not my fatber and motber 
Oöly» but even everybody eise» From wbence I bave oftcn aiiice 
observedt bow inconipmous and irrational the common temper 
ofmankind is, eapecially of youtb, to that reason which ought 
to griilde them in such ca-*äes,'viz. that tbey are not asbamed to 
sin, and yet are asbamed to repent; not asbamed of the action, 
for whicb they ougbt justly to be esteemed foola \ but are 
asbamed of tbe retuming, whicb only can make them be esteemed 
wise men. 

In tbis State of life, however, I ireraained some time, nncertain 
-wbat mcasures to take, and -wbat courne of life to lead. An 
irresistible reluctance continued to going bome ; and as I stayod 
iiwhile, the remembrance of the diHtresa I had been in wore oif ; 
and as that abated, the little motion I had in my desires to a 
retum wore off with it, tili at bist I quite laid aside the tbougbta 
of it, and looked out for a voyage. That cvil influence which"^ 
carried rac first nway from my fathcr's bouse^ ibai nn^ed me I 
inU) the ynld and iiidiii^ested notion of raising my fortune, and/ 
that impreüsed tbose conceits so fortribiy upon me, as to makef 
me dciif to all good advice, and to the entreaties, and even tbe 1 
command>« of my fatber ; I say, tbe same infiuence, whatever it 
was, prcaeuted tbe most unfortunate of all enterpriae» to my 
Yjew ; and 1 went an board a veasel bound to the coast of Afrioa;! 
or, as out saitots viilgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea. 

It iras tny great miafortune, that in all these adventures I did 
not ship myself as a sailor; whereby, thongh I might indeed 
have worked a little harder than ordinary, yet, at the aame time,. 
1 had learned the duty and officc of a foremast-man, and in timei 
migbt bave qualiäed ray«elf for a mate or lie uteri au t, if not a 
maat^r : but as it was always my fate to choose für the worse, 
so I did bore; forhaving money in my pocket, and goodclotbe« 
tipon my back^ I wouM alwavs go on board in theliabit of a 
e«ntleman ; and so I neithur had any busineas in tbe ahip, nor 
learned to do any, It was my lot, first of all» to fall into pretty 
good Company in London; wbicb docs not always bappcn to 
»ucb loose tuid nüsgaided young fellows an I then -^sts; t ^e d^V \- 
gcnef a lly, not oi^'^liny ff* }o^ 9t,rr,i^ snare for them. vi^Teatly, 
ßur \i Wm noi so with me : I firat feil acouainted with the 
rnantcr of a «hip, wbo hnd been on tbe coast oi Guinea, and who» 
having had very good success there, was resolved to go agfiin. 
He» takirtjyf a faticy tu my conversation, wbich was not at all dis- 
i^recablc at that timc, and hearing me say I had a mind tu see 

G 



12 



ADVEMTURES OF 



the wcnMi told rae, ihat if I would go tlie voyage with him, I 
sbouldbe at no expense ; I should be lus messmate and bis com- 
panion ; and if I could carry anytbing witb me, I sbould 'bave 
all tbe advantage of it tbat the trade would admit ; and perbaps I 
migbt meet witb some encoura^ement. I embraced tbe ofifer, and, 
entering into a strict friendsbip witb tbis captain, wbo was an 
bonest and plain-dealing man, I went tbe voyage witb bim, and 
carried a small adventure witb me ; wbicb, by tbe disinterested 
bonesty of my friend tbe captain, I increased very considerably ; 
for I carried about forty pounds in sucb toys and trifles as tbe 
captain directed me to buy. Tbis forty pounds I bad mustered 
togetber by tbe assistance of some of my relations wbom I cor- 
responded witb ; and wbo, I believe, got my fatber, or, at least, 
my motber, to contribute so much as tbat to my first adventure. 
Tbis was tbe only voyage wbicb I may say was successful in aM 
my adventures, and wbicb I owe to tbe int^rity and bonesty of 
my friend tbe captain; under wbom also I got a competeni 
knowledge of matnematics and tbe rules of navigation, leamed 
bow to keep an account of tbe sbip's course, take an Observa- 
tion, and, in sbort, to understand some tbings tbat were needful 
to be understood by a sailor; for^ as he took deligbt to instruct 
me, I took deligbt to leam ; and, in a word, tbis voyage made 
me bodi a saifor and a merchant: for I brought bome five 
pounds nine ounces of gold dust for my adventure, wbicb yielded 
me in London, at »¥ retum, almost tbree bundred poimds, and 
«._ tbis filled me witlUhose aspiring tboughts wbicb bave since so 
r* completed my ruinTj Yet even in tbis voyage I bad my mis* 
fortunes too ; particularly, tbat I was continually sick, being 
tbrown into a violent calenture by tbe excessive beat of th« 
climate ; our prindpal tradine being upon tbe coast, firom tbe 
latitude of fifteen degrees nort% jeveu to tbe Line itself. 





SECTION III, 



AO^msoN 3 cAPrnmnr at saixee^escape with xury— akritax 

AT THE BAAZLLS. 

I WAS now aet up for a Goinea trader ; and roy frieiid, to my great 
misfortiine, dying soon after his airival, I resolved to ^o tbe sarae 
voyagp again ; and I embarked in the same vessel wiih one wlio 
was hxs mate m the tbrraer Tojage, and had now got the com- 
mand of the ship. Thia was the unhappiest voyage that ever 
man made; for though I did not carry quite a hundred pouDds 
of my new-gained wealth, so that I had two hundrcd pounds Icft, 
and which I lod^ed with my friend'a widow, who was ^ery just 
to me, yet I feil into terrihle misfartnnes in this voyage ; and the 
iirst was this, viz. — our ship, making her course towards the 
Canary Islands^ or rather between those Islands and the AMcan 
shore, was surpriaed, in the gray of tbe momin^, by a Turkish 
rover, of Sallee, who gave chase to us with all the sail she could 
make. We crowded also as mucb canvass as our yards wonld 
spread« or cur maats carry, to get clear ; but finding the pii-ate 
gained upon u.s, and would certainly come up with us in a few 
bours, we prepared to fight, our ahip having twelve guns and 
the rover eighteen. Ahout three in the afternoon he came np 
irtlb u»; and bringing to, by miHtakc, just athwart our quarter, 
mstead of athwart our stero» as he intemlcd, we broujirht eight 
of our guns to bear on that side, and povired in a broadside upon 
Kirnt which made him sheer off again, after returning our firCj 
Aud poviring in also bis Bmall shot from near two hundred men 
whicn he had on board. However, we had not a man touched, 

c2 



14 ADVENTÜRES OF 

all oiir raen keeping close. He prepared to attack us agaiiii and 
we to defend ourselves ; but laying us on board the next time 
upon our otber quarter, be entered sixty men upon our decks, 
who immediately feil to cutting and backing tbe sails and rig- 
ging. We plied them witb smaU shot, balf-pikes, powder-cbests, 
and sucb like, and cleared our deck of tbem twice. Howeyer, 
to cut sbort tbis melancboly part of our story, our sbip being 
disabled, and tbree of our men killed and eigbt wounded, we wäre 
obliged to yield, and were carried all pnsoners into Sallee, a 
port belonging to the Moors. 

The usage I bad there was not so dreadful as at first I appr&- 
hended: nor was I carried up the couiitry to the emperor's 
court, as the rest of our men were, bttt "Wta kept by the captain 
of the rover as bis proper pnze, and made )tid slave, being vonng 
and nimble, and !fit for läÜs business. At this surprising cnange 
of my circumstances, flrom a mercbaat to a miserable slave, I 
was perfectly overwbelmed; and now looked back upon my 
father's prophetic discourse to me, that I should be miserable, 
and have none to relieve me; which I thought was now so 
effectually brought to päss, that it could not be worse ; that now 
the band of Heaven had overtaken me, and I was undone, with- 
out redemplion. But, alas ! this was but a taste of the misery 
I was to go through, as will appear in the sequel of this story. 

As my new patron, or master, had taken me nome to bis house, 
so I was in hopes he would take me with him when he went to 
sea again, believing that it would, some time or other, be lus 
fate to be taken by a Spanish or Portuguese man of war, and 
that then I should be set at liberty. But this bope of mine was 
soon taken away, for when he went to sea he left me on shore 
to look after bis little garden, and do the common drudgery of 
slaves about bis house ; and when he came home again from bis 
cruise, he ordered me to lie in the cabin, to look after the ship. 

Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what method 
I might take to effect it, but found no way that had the least 
probability in it. Nothing presented to make the supposition 
of it rational ; for I had nobody to communicate it to that would 
embark with me; no fellow-slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or 
Scotchman there but myself ; so that for two years, though I 
ofteh pleased myself with the Imagination, yet I never had the 
least encouraging prospect of putting it in practice. 

After about two years, an odd circumstance presented itsel( 
which put the old thought of making some attempt for my liberty 
again in my head. My patron lying at home longer than usual^ 
without fittiug out bis ship, which, as I heard, was for want of 
money, he used constantly, once or twice a week, sometimes 
oftener, if the weathet was fair, to take the ship 's pinnacle, and 
go out into the road a fishing ; and as he always took me and a 
younsi^ Moresco with him to row the boat, we made him very 



ROBINSON CEUSOE. 



15 



menjj and I proved very dexterous in catcliing ßali, insorauch 
(hat sotnetimes lie woiild send me witli a Moor, one of hin kins- 
meD, and the youtb, die Moresco^ as they called him, to catch 
a dish of fish for him. 

It happened one time, that going a fishing in a stark calm 

momin^y a fog rose so thick, th&t though we were not half a 

_ I from the shore, we lost sight of it ; and rowing^ we ktiew 

pf whither, or which way, we laboured all day, and aU the 

Jit night, and when the morning came, we foiind we had puUed 

^to sea, instead of puUing in Ibr the shore, and that we wcre 

Meast two leaguea firom the shorej however, we got well in 

, though with a great deal of labour, and aome danger, for 

Ee wind began to blow pretty fresh in the morning; but par- 

alarly we were all very hungry. 

But oiir patroDj w arued by thjs disastcr, resolved to take 

jlore care of himaelf for tlie future; and baving lying by him the 

^ngboat of our Euglish ahip he had taken, he resolved he 

" [>uld not go a fishing aay more withont a compass and some 

ü Vision ; so he ordered the carpenter of the ship, who was an 

tiglish slave, to build a little state-roora or cabin in the middle 

f the longboat, like that of a bärge, witb a place to stand behind 

, to steer and haul home the main sheet, and room before for 

l band or two to stand and vvork the saib. 8 he sailed with what 

^ called a shoulder-of-mutton sail, aud the boom jibbed over 

ke top of the cabin, whlch lay very snug and low- , and had in it 

w»m for him to lie, with a slave or two, and a table to eat on, 

lith some small lockers to put in some bottles of such lif|UOT as he 

konght fit to drink, and particiilarly his bread, rice, and colfee. 

i We went frequently oiit witb thia boat a fishing, and aa 1 was 

Dst dexterouH to cateh fish for him, he never went without me. 

; happened that he had appointed to go out in this boat, either 

ir pleasure or for fish, with two or three Moors of some dis- 

Qction in that place, and for whom he had provided cxtraordi- 

krily, and had therefore sent on board the boat, ovcrnight, 

llarger störe of provisions than ordinary, and had ordered me 

\ get ready three fuaees, with po^vdcr and abot, which were on 

oard bis ship, for that they desi^iitd some sport of fowling aa 

well as fishing, 

I got all things ready as he directed, and waited the next 
moming with the boat wasbed elean, her ensign and pendants 
out, and everything to accommodate his guests : when, by and 
by, my patron c^me an board alone, and told me his guesta had 
put off going, upon some business that feil out, and ordered me 
with a man ana boy, as nsual^ to go out with the boat, and 
catcb them some fish, for that his iriends were to sup at Ms 
houae ; and commanded, that as soon as I had got some fish, I 
ehould bring it home to lud house : all which I prepared to do. 
This moment my former notions of deliveranco dartcd into my 



16 ADVENTURES OF 

thoughts, for now I foimd I -was like to have a litüe ship at mv 
command ; and my master beiag gone, I prepared to fiunisn 
myself, not for a fishing business, but for a yoyage ; though I 
knew not| neitber did I so much as consider, wniuier I sbould 
steer ; for any where, to get out ofthat place, was my way. 
- My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak to this 
Moor, to get sometbing for our subsistence on board; for I told 
bim we must not presume to eat of our patron's bread : be said, 
tbat was true ; so be brougbt a large basket of rusk or biscoit, 
of tbeir kind, änd tbree jars with fresb water, into tbe boat I 
knew wbere my patron's. case of botües stood, wbicb it was 
evident, by tbe make, were taken out of some Englisb prize, and 
i conveyed tbem into tbe boat wbile tbe Moor was on sbore, as 
if tbey bad been tbere before for our master. I conveyed also 
a great lump of bees-wax into tbe boat, wbicb weigbed above 
balf a bundred-weigbt, with a parcel of twine or tbread, a 
hatcbet, a saw, and a baramer, all wbicb were of great use to Us 
afterwards, especially tbe wax, to make candles. Anotber trick 
I tried upon bim, wbicb be innocently came into also : bis name 
was Ismael, wbom tbey call Muley, or Moley : so I called to 
bim ; Moley, said I, our patron's guns are on board tbe boat, 
can you not get alittle powder pnd sbot? it may be we may kill 
some alcamies (fowls like our curlews) for ourselves, for I knöw 
be keeps tbe gunner's Stores in tbe sbip. — Yes, says be, I will 
bring some ; and accordingly be brougbt a great leatber poucb, 
wbidi beld about a pound and a balf of powder, or ratber more, 
and anotber witb sbot, tbat bad five or six pounds, witb some 
buUets, and put all into tbe boat : at tbe same time I found some 
powder of my master's in tbe great cabin, witb wbicb I filled 
one of tbe large bottles in tbe case, wbicb was almost empty, 
pouring wbat was in it into anotber ; and tbus ftimisbed witb 
every tbing needful, we sailed out of tbe port to fisb. Tbe Castle, 
wbicb is at tbe entrance of tbe port, knew wbo we wäre, and 
took no notice of us ; and we were not above a mile out of tbe 
port, before we bauled in our sail, and set us down to fisb. Tbe 
wind blew from NN. E., wbicb was contrarv to my desire ; for, 
bad it blown soutberly, I bad been sure to bave made tbe coast 
of Spain, and at last reacbed to tbe bay of Cadiz ; but my reso- 
lutions were, blow wbicb way it woidd, I would be gone from 
tbe borrid place wbere I was, and leave tbe rest to fate. 

After we bad fisbed some time and catcbed notbing, for 
wben I bad fisb on my book I would not pull tbem up, tbat 
be migbt not see tbem, I said to tbe Moor, Tbis will not do ; 
our master will not be tbus served ; we must stand fartber o£El 
He, tbinking no barm, agreed ; and being at tbe bead of tbe 
boat, set tbe sails ; and as I bad tbe beim, I run tbe boat near 
a leagne &rtber, and tben brougbt to, as if I would fisb. Tben 
giving tbe boy tke heim, I stepped forward to wbere tbe Moor 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

was, and I took him by snrprise, with my ftrm xinder bia waist^ 
and tossed him clcar overboiird into the sea. He rose irame- 
diately, for he swam like a cork, and called to me, begged to be 
taken in» and told me be would go all the world over with me. 
He swam so strong after tbe boat, that he would bave reached 
nie very quickly, tbere beinfr but little mnd ; npon i^hicb I 
8teppe<l into the cabin, and fetcbin^ one of the fowling-piecea, I 
present«d it at bim, and told him, I bad done him no hurt, and 
if be would be qniet^ I would do bim none : J3ut, said I, you swim 
well cnon^b to reach tbe sbore, and the sea is calm ; inake the 
best of yout way to sbore, and 1 will do you no harm: but if you 
come near the boat, I will shoot you tbrough the bead; fori am 
resohed to have my liberty. So be turned bimself about« and 
»warn for tbe sbore ; and I make no doubt but he reached it ivitb 
ease, for he waa an e^cellent s wimmer. 

I could have been content to have takon tbis Moot witb me 
and bave drowned the boy, but there was no veuturing to trust 
him. When he was gone I tumed to the boy, whom they called 
Xury, and said to bim, Xury, if you wiU be faitbftil to me I will 
make you a great mau ; but if you ^ ill not stroke your face to 
be true to me (that ij5, swear by Mabomet and hia father's beard), 
I must throw you into the sea too. The boy smiled in my face, 
and spoke so innocently, that I could not mistrust bim ; and 
Bwore to be faithful to me, and go all over tbe world with me. 

While 1 was in view of the Moor that was sisimmiiig, I stood 
out directly to sea with the boat, rather stretcbing to wind ward, 
tbat they mi^hl think me gone towarda tbe Strait's moutb (as 
indeed any one tbat bad been in tbeir wits must have been sup- 
posed to do) ; for who would have supposed we were sailin^ on 
to tbe ßouthward, to the truly Barbarian coast, wherc whole 
nations of negroes were sure to Surround us with tbeir canoes, 
and destroy ua ; wbere we could never once go on sbore but we 
shonld be devoured by savage beasts, or raore mercilesa savages 
of human kind? 

Bat as soon as it grew dnsk in toe evening, I changed my 
course, and steered directly south Rnd by east, bending my courBC 
A little töwiirds the east, that I migbt keep in with the sbore ; 
and having a fair fresb gale of wind, and a smooth quiet sea, I 
made such sail, that I believe by the next day, at tbree o'clock 
in tbe aflerooon, when I made tbe lund, l coiild not be leas tban 
one bundred and fifty miles soutb of Salee, quite beyoad the 
Emperor of Morocco's dominions, or indeed of any other king 
thereabout ; Ibr we saw no people. 

Yet such was the fright I bad taken at tbe Moors, and tbe 
dreadful apprchensions 1 bad of faliing into tbeir hands, that 1 
roald not «top, or go on sbore, or come to an ancbor, the wind 
Dntinuiug fair, tili 1 had sailed in that manner five days; and 
t tbe wind shüting to the soutbward, 1 concluded also that if 



18 ADVENTURES OF 

any of onr vessels urere in chase of me, they ako would now 
give over : so I ventured to make to the coast, and came to an 
anchor in the moatli of a litüe river ; I knew not what or where, 
neither what latitude, what country, what nation^ or what river. 
I neither saw, nor desired to see, any people ; the principal thing 
I wanted was fresh water. We came into this creek in the 
evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon as it was dark, and 
diseover the country : but as soon as it was quite dark, we heard 
such dreadful noises of the barking, roaring, and howlme of wild 
creatureSy of we knew not what kinds, that the poor boy was 
ready to die with fear, and begged of me not to go on shore üll 
day. Well, Xury, said I, then I will not ; but it may be, we may 
see men by day, who will be as bad.to us as those lions. Then 
we may give them the shoot-gun, says Xury, laughing ,' make 
them run away. Such Euglish Xury spoke by conversing amonff 
US slaves. However, I was glad to see the boy so cheerfiil, ana 
I gave him a dram out of onr patron's case of bottles to cheer 
him up. After all, Xury's advice was good, and I took it. We 
dropped our little anchor, and lay still all night: I say still, for 
we slept none ; for in two or three hours we saw vast creatures 
(we knew not what to call them), of many sorts, come down to 
the sea-shore, and run into the water, wallowing and washing 
themselves, for the pleasure of cooling themselves , and they 
made such hideous howlings and yelhngs, that I never indeed 
heard the like. 

Xury was dreadftdly frightened, and indeed so was I too; bot 
we were both more frightened when we heard one of these mighty 
creatures swimming towards our boat : we could not see him, 
but we might hear him, by his blowing, to be a monstrous, huge 
and ftirious beast. Xury said it was a lion, and it might be so, 
for aught I know ; but poor Xury cried to me to weigh the 
anchor and row away. No, says I, Xury ; we can slip our cable 
with a buoy to it, and go off to sea : they cannot foilow us &r. 
I had no sooner said so, but I perceived the creature (whatever 
it was) within two oars' length, which something surprised me ; 
however, I immediately stepped to the cabin door, and taking up 
my gun, fired at him ; upon which he immediately tumed about, 
and swam to the shore again. 

But it is impossible to describe the horrible noises, and hideous 
cries and howlings that were raised, as well upon the edge of the 
shore as higher within the country, upon the noise or report of 
the gun ; a thing, I beheve, those creatures had never heard 
before. This convinced me there was no going on shore for us 
in the night upon that coast : and how to venture on shore in the 
day, was another question too ; for to have fallen into the hands 
of any of the savages, had been as bad as to have fallen into the 
paws of lions and tigers ; at least, we were equally apprehensive 
of the danger of it 



BOBIKSON CRUSOE. 



19 



Be f hat as it would, we were obliged to go on shore somewliere 
or other for water, for we had not a pint left in the boat : when 
and where to get it wa3 the point. Xury saidj if 1 would let hini 
go on shore witli one of the jara, he would find if there was any 
WÄter, and bring some to me, 1 asked him why he w ould go ; 
wby I should not go, and he stay in the boat The boy answered 
witn 80 much aifection, that he made me love him ever after, 
Says he, If wild mans come, they eat niCi you go away. — Well, 
Xnxy^ SÄid I, we will hoth go ; and if' the wild mans come, we will 
kiU themj they shall eat neitber ofus. So I gave Xury a pieccof 
rusk bread to eat, and a dram out of oiir patron'ü case of bottles, 
wbich I mentioned before ; and we haiüed in the boat as near the 
shore as we thought was properi and so waded to shore» carrying 
nothing but our armS} and two jars for water, 

1 did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the Coming 
of canoes with savages down the river j but the boy, seeing a low 
place about a mile up the country, rambled to it ; and, by and by, 
I eawhim come rimning towarda me. I thought he was pursued 
by some savage, or frightened by some wild beast, and 1 theretbre 
nui forwards to help him ; but when I came nearer to him, I saw 
something banging ovcr bis Shoulders, which was acreaiure that 
he had shot, like a bare, but di^erent in colour, and longer legs : 
however, we were very glad of it, and it was very good meat : 
but the grcat joy that poor Xury came withj ^vas tu teil me he 
had found good water, and seen no wild mans* 

But we found alltervvards that we need not take such pains for 
water; for a little higher np the creck where we were, we foimd 
the wiiter fresh when the tide wöt? out, which flowed but a little 
way up ; so we filled our jars, and having a fire, feasted on the 
bare we had killed ; and prepared to go on our way, having seen 
no footsteps of any human creature in that part of the country. 

As 1 had beeil one voyage to this coast oefore, 1 knew very 
well that the Islands of the Canaries, and the Cape de Verd 
Idhinds also, lay not far &om the coast. But as I had no instru- 
ments to take an Observation, to find what latitude we were in , 
and did not exactly know, or at least remember, what latitude 
they were in, I knew not where to look for them, or when to 
stand off to sea towards thera, otherwise I might now have eaaily 
found some of these Islands. But my hope was, tliat if 1 stood 
alang this coast tili 1 came to the part where the English traded, 
I should fmd some of their vessels upon their usual design of 
trade, that would relieve and take us in. 

Bv the best of my calculation, the place where I now was, must 
bc that country which, lying between the Emperor of Morocco's 
dominiona and the Negroes, hes waste, and uninhabited, except 
by wüd beusta ; the Negroes having abaudoned it, and gone 
farther noxtih, for fear uf the Moors, and the Moors not tbinking 
it worth inhabiting^ by reason of its barrenuess ; and« iadeed 



20 ADVENTURE8 OP 

both foTsaking it because of the prodigious numbers of tigera, 
bons, leopards, and otber furious creatores wbicb barbour tbere: 
80 that tbe Moors use it for tbeir hunting only, wbere tbey go 
like an army, two or tbree tbousand men at a time: and, indeed, 
for near a bundred miles togetber upon tbis coast, we saw notbing 
but a waste, uninbabited country by day, and beard notbing but 
bowlings and roaring of wild beasts by nigbt. 

Once or twice, in tbe day-time, I tbougbt I saw tbe Pico, pt 
Teneriffe, being tbe top of tbe mountain Teneriffe, in the Canar- 
ries, and bad a great mind to venture out, in bopes of reacbing 
tbitber ; but baving tried twice, I was forced in again by con- 
trary winds ; tbe sea also going too bigb for my little vessel; so 
I resolved to pursue my first design, and keep along tbe sbore. 

Several times I was obliged to land for fresb water, after we 
bad lett tbis place ; and once, in particular, being eu4y in tbe 
moming, we came to an ancbor under a little point of land wbicb 
was pretty bigb ; and tbe tide beginning to flow, we lay still, to 
go fertber in. Xury, wbose eyes were more about bim tban, it 
seemsj mine were, calls softly to me, and teils me, tbat we bad 
best go fartber off tbe sbore ; for, says be, Look, youder lies a 
dreadfiil monster on tbe side of tbat billock, fast asleep. I looked 
wbere be pointed, and sawa dreadful monster indeed, forit wasa 
terrible great lion, tbat lay on tbe side of tbe sbore, under tbe 
sbade of a piece of tbe bill, tbat bung, as it were, ov» bim. 
Xury, says I, you shall go on sbore and kill bim. Xury looked 
irigbtenea, and said, Me kill ! be eat me at one moutb : one 
moutbful be meant. However, I said no more to tbe boy but 
bade bim be still ; and I took our biggest gun, wbicb was almost 
musket bore, and loaded it witb a good Charge of powder, and 
witb two slugs, and laid it down ; then I loaded another gun 
with two bullets : and a tbird, for we bad tbree pieces, I loaded 
witb flve smaller bullets. I took the best aim I could witb the 
first piece, to have sbot bim in tbe bead ; but be lay so, witb bis 
leg raised a little above bis nose, that tbe slugs bit bis leg about 
tbe knee, and broke tbe bone : be started up, growling at first, 
but finding bis leg broke, feil down again, and then got up upon 
tbree legs, and gave tbe most bideous roar tbat ever I beard. I 
was a little surprised tbat I bad not bit bim on tbe bead ; how- 
ever, I took up the second piece immediately, and tbougb be 
began to move off, fired again, and sbot bim in tbe bead, and bad 
tbe pleasure to see bim drop, and make but little noise, but lie 
struggling for life. Then Xury took beart, and would have me 
let bim go on sbore. Well, go, said I ; so the boy jumped into 
tbe water, and taking a little gun in one band, swam to sbore 
with the otber band, and coming close to tbe creature, put tbe 
muzzle of tbe piece to bis ear, and shot bim in tbe beeul again, 
wbicb despatched bim quite. 

Tbis was game, indeed, to us, but it w^s no food; and I was 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 21 

very sorry to lose tliree cliarges of powder and sliot upon a 
Creatore uiat was good for nothing to us. However, Xruy said 
he would have some of liim ; so he comes on board, and asked 
me to give him the hatchet : For what, Xury ? said I. Me cut 
off bis head, said he. However, Xury could not cut off his 
head ; but he cut off a foot, and brought it with him, and it was 
a monstrous great one. I bethought myself, however, that per- 
haps the skin of him might, one way or other, be of some value 
to US ; and I resolved to take off his skin, if I could. So Xury 
and I went to work with him : but Xury was much the better 
workmau at it, for I knew very ill how to do it. Indeed, it took 
US both np the whole day ; but at last we got off the hide of 
bim, and spreading it on the top of our cabin, the sun effectually 
dried it in two days* time, and it aiterwards served me to lie 
upon. 

After this stop we made on to the southward continually, for 
ten or twelve days, living very sparingly on our provisionS, 
whicb began to abate very much, and going no oftener into the 
shore than we were obliged to for fresh water. My design in 
this, was to make the river Gambia, or Senegal : that is to say, 
anywhere about the Cape de Verd, where I was in hopes to 
meet with some European ship ; and if I did not, I knew not 
what course I had to take, but to seek for the islands or perish 
among the Negroes. I knew that all the ships from Europe, 
■which sailed either to the coast of Guinea, or to Brazil, or to 
the East Indies, made this Cape, or those islands : and in a 
Word I put the whole of my fortune upon this single point, either 
that I must meet with some ship, or must perish. 

When I had pursued this resolution about ten days longer, as 
I have said, I began to see that the land was inhabited ; and in 
two or three places, as we sailed by, we saw people stand upon 
the shore to look at us : we could also perceive they were quite 
black and stark naked. I was once inclined to have gone on 
shore to them ; but Xury was my better counsellor, and said to 
me, No go, no go. However, I nauled in nearer the shore, that 
I might talk to them ; and I found they ran along the shore by 
me a good way. I observed they had no weapons in their hands, 
except one, who had a long slender stick, which Xury said was 
a lance, and that they would throw them a great way with good 
aim ; so I kept at a distance, but talked to them by signs, as 
weU as I could, and particularly made signs for something to 
eat They beckoned to me to stop my boat, and they would 
fetch me some meat : upon this I lowered the top of my sail, 
and lay by, and two of them ran up into the country ; and in 
less than half an hour came back, and brought with them two 
pieces of dry flesh and some com, such as the produc/^ of their 
country ; but we neither knew what the one or the other was ; 
however, we were willing to accept it. But how to come at it 



22 ADVENTURES OF 

was our next dispute, for I was not for venturing on sliore to 
them, and they were as much afraid of us : but they took a safe 
way for us all, for they brought it to tbe shore, and laid it down, 
and went and stood a great way off tili we fetched it on board,, 
and then came close to us again. 

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to 
make them amends ; but an opportunity offered that very instant 
to oblige them wonderfully ; for while we were Iving by the 
shore, came two mighty creatures, one pursuing the other (as 
we took it) with great fury, from the mountains towards the 
sea ; whether it was the male pursuing the female, or whether 
they were in sport or in rage, we could not teil, any more than 
we'could teil whether it was usual or stränge; but I believe it 
was the latter, because, in the first place, those ravenous crea* 
tures seldom appear but in the night ; and, in the second place 
we found the people terribly frightened, especiaUy the womea. 
The man that had the lauce, or dart, did not fly from ^em, but 
the rest did ; however, as äie two creatures ran directly into 
the water, they did not seem to offer to faU upon any of the 
Negroes, but plunged themselves into the sea, and swam about, 
as if they had come for their diversion ; at last, one of them 
began to come nearer our boat than I at first expected; but I 
lay ready for him, for I had loaded my gun with all possible 
expedition, and bade Xury load both the others. As soon as 
he came fairly within my reach, I fired, and shot him directly in 
the head: immediately he sunk down into the water, but rose 
instantly, and plunged up and down, as if he was struggling for 
life, and so indeed he was : he immediately made to the shore; 
but between the wound which was his mortal hurt, and the 
strangling of the water, he died just before he reached the shore, 

It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor 
creatures, at the noise and fire of my gun ; some of them were 
even ready to die for fear, and feil down as dead with the very 
terror ; but when they saw the creature dead, and sunk in the 
water, and that I made signs to them to come to the shore, they 
took heart and came to the shore, and began to search for the 
creature. I found him by his blood staining the water ; and by 
the help of a rope, which I slung round him, and gave the 
Negroes to haul, they dragged him on shore, and found that it 
was a most curious leopard, spotted, and fine to an admirable 
degree; and the Negroes heldup their hands with admiration, to 
think what it was I had kilied him with. 

The other creature, frightened with the flash of fire, and the 
noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly to the 
mountains firom whence they came ; nor could I, at that distance, 
know what it was. I found quickly the Negroes were for eating 
the flesh of this creature, so I was willing to have them take it 
AS a &vour firom me ; which, when I made signs to them that 



ßOfilKBON CRUSOE. 



23 



they miglit talse him, they were very thankful for, rmtraediately 
Act feil to work with him ; and thongh thev liad no knife, yet 
with s sharpened piece of wood, they took: off his akin'aa 
readily, and much more readily, tban we could have done witli 
ft. knile. Thcy offered me sorao of the flcsb, which I declined, 
makin^ hs if I would give it thera, but made signs for the skui, 
whicU they gave me Tery freely, and brouglit me a great deal 
more of Iheir provisons/wMch, tlioiigb I did not undcrstand, 
yet 1 Rccepted. I then made signs lo them for some watcr, and 
Leid out one of my jara to them, turainor it bottom upwarda, to 
show that it was erapty, and tliat I wanted to have it fiUed. 
Thcy called immediately to some of their friends, and therc came 
two women, and brought a great vessel made of earth, and 
barnt, as I suppose, in the snn ; thls they set down to me, aa 
before, and I aent Xury on shore with my jars, and filled thena 
all three. The women were as stark naked as the men. 

I was now furniabed with roots and com, snch as it was, and 
WÄter; and leaving my friendly Negroes, I made forward for 
about eleven daya morej mthout offering to go near the shore, 
tili I saw the land run oiit a great length into the sea, at about 
the distance of four or five leagues before me ; and the sea being 
very calm, I kept a large offing, to make this point. At length, 
doubling the point, at about two leaguea frora the land, I saw 
plainly land on the other Eide, to seaward : tlien I concluded, as 
it was most certain indced, that this was the Cape de Verd, and 
those the Islands, called, from thence, Cape de Verd Islands* 
However, they were at a great distance, and I could not well 
teU what I had best to do ; for if I should he taken with a gale 
of wind, I might neither reach one nor the other* 

In this dilemma, as I was verv penaive, I steppcd into the 
cahin, and sat me down, Xury naving the heim ; when, on a 
sudden, the boy cried out, Master, master, a ship with a sail l 
and the foolish boy was frightened out of bis wita, thinking it 
muBt needs be some of his master's ships aent to pnrsuc us, 
when I knew we were gölten tkr enough out of their reach. I 
jumped out of the cabin, and immediately saw, not only the 
ship, but what she was, viz. tbat it was a Portuguese ship, and, 
as I thought, was bound to the Coast of Guinea, for Negroes. 
Bat» when I observed the coiirse she steered, 1 was soon con- 
vinced they were bound some other way, and did not design to 
come any nearer to the shore ; upon which, 1 stretched out to 
sea as much as I eould^ rcsolvmg to spcak vv ith them, if possible, 

With all the sail I could make, I foimd 1 should not be able 
to come in their way, but that thcy would be ffone by before I 
could make any signnl to them; but after I had crowded to the 
uf. 1 began to despair, they, it seems, saw mc, by the 

li r perspective glasses, aud that it was some European 

bu«L, «üii^k, thcy supposed, mubt bdong to some ship that was 



24 ADVSMTUaES OF 

lost: 80 they shortened sail. to let me come up. I was en- 
couraged with this, and as I nad my patron's ensign on board, 
I made a waft of it to them, for a signal of distress, and fired a 
gan, both which they.saw ; for they told me they saw the smoke, 
thouffh they did not hear the gun. Upon these Signals, they 
very Idndly brought to, and lay by for me; aml in about three 
hours* time I came up with them. 

They asked me what I was, in Portugaese, and ni Spanish, 
and in French, but I underßtood none of them ; but, at last, a 
Scotch sailor who was on board, called to me, and I answered 
him, and told him I was an Englishman, that I had made my 
escape out of slavery from the Moors, at Sallee: they then 
bade me come on board, and very kindly took me in, and all my 
goods. 

It was an inexpressible joy to me, which any one will beUeTe, 
that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a miserable, 
and almost hopeless, condition as I was in; and I immediately 
offered all I had to the captain of the ship, as a retum for my 
deUverance ; but he generously told me, he would take nothing 
from me, but that all I had should be delivered safe to me, when 
I-came to the Brazils. For, says he, I have saved your life on 
no other terms than I would be glfiui to be saved myself ; and 
it may, one time or other, be my lot to be taken up in the same 
condition. Besides, said he, when I carry you to tue Brassiis, so 
great a way from your own country, if |I should take from you 
what you have, vou wiU be starved there, and then I only take 
away that life I had given. No, no, Senhor Ingles (Mr. EngUsh- 
inan), says he, I wUl carry you thither in charity, and these 
things will help to buy your subsisteuce there, and your pas- 
sage home agam. 




EOBmsOir CRTJSOEp 



2& 



^■# 



SECTION IV. 

5ETTLES IN THE BRAZILS AB A PLANTER— MAKES AMyTHER 
VOYAGE, ANJD IS saiPWRECKED, 

As he was charitable in thia proposal, so be was just in the 
perfarraancer to a tittle : for he oixlered the seamen, that none 
sbomld offer to touch anythiug 1 had : then he took everjthing 
into Ms own possession, and ajave me back an exact mventory 
of them, that I might have mem, eyen so much aa mj three 
earthen jars. 

As tu my boat, it was a very good one ; and that he saW| and 
told me he would buy it of me for the ship's use ; and asked me 
what l would bave for it ? I told him^ he had been so generous 
to me in everything, that l could not oifer to make any price of 
the boat, but lefl it entirely to bim : upon which, he told me he 
would giTe me a note of band to pay me eighty pieces of eigbt 
for it at BrazU ; and when it came there, il' any one offered to 
g^ive more, he would make it up» He olfered me also Bixty pieces 
of eigbt more for my boy Xury, whicb I was loatb to take j not 
üiat I was not wiüing to let the captain have him, bat I was 
vety loath to seil the poor boy*s liberty, who had assisted rae 
so faithfiüly in procuring my own. However, when I let bim 
koow ray reasou« he owned it to be juät, and offered me this 
medium, that he would give tbe Ooy an Obligation to set him 
free in ten ycars, if he turned Christian ; lipon this, and Xury 
•aying he was willing to gro to bim^ I let the captain have him. 

We had n v»y good voyage to the Brazile, and arrived in the 
Bay de Todos los Santos^ or All Saints' Bay, in about twenty- 
two days after. And now I was once more deliTcred from thö 
TTif'* '-*' rrible of all conditio ns of life; and what to do next 
w ,1 was now to consider. 

A..^ ....Lfüus treatmcnt tbe captain gave me, I can never 



26 ADVENTURES OP 

enough remember : lie would take nothing of me for my passage, 
gave me twentjr ducats for the leopard's skin, and fort^ for flic 
fion's skin, which I had in my boat, and caused everything I had 
in the ship to be punctually delivered to me ; and what I was 
vrilling to seil, be bougbt of me ; such as the case of botües, two 
of my guns, and a piece of the lump of bees-wax, — for I had 
made candles of the rest : in a word, I made about two bundred 
and twenty pieces of eight of all my €ai;go ; and miÜh this stock, 
I went on shore in the Brazils. 

I had not been long here, be^n« I was recommmided to the 
house of a good honest man, like himself, who had an ingenio 
as they call it (tbKl k, a plantation and a sugar-house). I lived 
with him some time, and acquainted myself, by that means, with 
the manner of planting and of making sugar ; and seeing how 
well the planters lived, and how they got rieh suddenly, I re- 
Bolved, if I could get a license to settle there, I would tum 
planter among them : endeavouring, in the meantime, to find 
out some way to get my money, which I had left in London, 
remitted to me. To Üus purpose, getting a kind of letter of 
naturalization, I purchased as much land that was uncured as 
my money would r^tch, and formed a plan for my plantation 
and settlement ; such a one as might be suitable to the stock 
which I proposed to myself to receive from England. 

I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but bom of 
English parents, whose name was Wells, and in much such 
circumstances as I was. I call him my neighbour, because bis 
plantation lay next to mine, and we went on very sociably 
together. My stock was but low, as well as bis ; and we rather 
planted for food than anything eise, for about two years. How- 
ever, we began to increase, and our land began to come into 
Order; so that the third year we planted some tobacco, and made 
each of us a large piece of ground ready for planting canes in the 
year to come; but we both wanted help; andnow I found more 
than before, 1 had done wrong in parting with my boy Xury. 

But, alas ! for me to do wrong, that never did right, was no 
great wonder. I had no remedy, but to go on : I had got into 
an employment quite remote to my genius, and directly contrary 
to the life I deüghted in, and for which I forsook my fatber's 
house, and broke through all bis good advice : nay, I was Com- 
ing into the very middle Station, or upper degree of low life, 
which my father advised me to before ; and which, if I resolved 
to go on with, I might as well have staid at home, and never 
have fatigued myself in the world, as I had done : and I used 
oflen to say to myself, I could have done this as well in England» 
among my friends, as have gone five thousand mUes off to do it 
among strangers and savages, in a wildemess, and at such a 
distance as never to hear from any part of the world that had 
the least knowledge of me. 



BOBIKSON CRCSOE. 



27 



In this mann er, I used to look upon my condition witli the 
utmost regret. I had nobody to coöverse with, but now and 
ihen this neighbour ; no work to be done, but by the labour of 
my hands : and I used to say, I Uved just Hke a man cast away 
upon some desolate Island, that had nobody there but himself. 
But how just bas it been I and how sbould all men reflect, that 
when tbey compare their present conditioBs with otbera that are 
w orse, Heaven may oblige them to make the exchang^e, and be 
cotivinced of tlieir former fcbcity by their expericnce : 1 say, 
how just bas it been, tbat the tndy solitary liJe I reflected on» 
in an islaud of mere desolation, should be mv lot, who had so 
oAen unjustly compared it with the life wbich I Ihen led, in 
whicbj had I continued, I had, in all probability, bcen exceeding 
prosperouB and rieh ! 

I was, in some degree, settled in my measurea fbr carrving on 
the plantation, beforc my kind friend, the captain of tlie shtp 
that took me up at sea, went back ; for the sliip remained tliere, 
in providing hiß lading, and preparing for bis voyage, near three 
months ; wnen telling him what utile Btock I h&d left bebind 
me in London, be gave mc this friendly anä sincere ad^ice : 
Senhor Inglez, says he (for so he ahvays called me), if you wiU 
give me lettera^ and a procuration here in form to me, with 
Orders to the person wbo has your money iti London, to send 
youJT effect5 to Lisbon, to such persona as 1 shall direct, and in 
such goods as are proper for tbis country, I wül bring you the 
produce of tbem^ God wiUing, at my retum : but since human 
afiaira are all subject to diangcs and disasters, I wo nid have 
you give orders for but one hmidred pounds Sterling, which, you 
gay, h half your stock, and let the hazard be run for the first, so 
that if it comc sufe, you may order the rest the same way ; and, 
if it miscarry, you may have the otlier half to have recourae to 
fop your aupply, This was ao ivholesome advice, and looked so 
ftiendly, that 1 rould not but be convinced it was the best course 
I could take ; so 1 act^ordingly prepared letters to the gentle- 
woman with whom I left my money, and a procuration to the 
Poptuguese captain, as he dealred nie. 

I wrote the Engbah captain'a vvidow^ a füll account of all my 
adventurea j my slavery, escape, and how I had met with the 
Portuguese captain at sea, the humanity of bis behaviour, and 
what condition I was now in, witb all otber uecessary directions 
for ray supply ; and wben this honest captain came to Lisbon, 
he found means, by some of the EngUsn merchants there, to 
tend over, not the order only, but a füll account of my atory to 
jfc merehant at London, who repreaented it cöectually to her : 
Tjrbcreupon abe not only delivered the money, but, out of her 
own pocket, sent the Portugiese captain a Tcry handsome 
preaent for bis humanity and charity to me* 

Tbc xaerchant in London^ vestiug this hundrcd ponnds in 
D 



28 ADVENTÜRES OP 

English goods, such as the captain had wrote for, sent them 
directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought them all safe to me at 
the Brazils : among which, without my directiou (for I was too 
Young in mv business to think of them), he had taken care to 
nave all sorts of tools, iron work, and Utensils, necessary for 
my plantation, and which were of great use to me. When this 
cargo arrived, I thought my fortune made, for I was sarprised 
with the joy of it ; and my good Steward, the captain, had laid 
out the five pounds, which my friend had sent him as a present 
for himself, to purchase and bring me over a servant, under 
bond for six years' Service, and would not aocept of any con- 
sideration, except a little tobacco, which I would have him 
accept, bein^ of my own produce. Neither was this all : but 
m]^ goods bemg all English manufactures, such as cloths, stufä, 
baize, and things particularly valuable and desirable in the 
country, I found means to seil them to a very great advantage ; 
so that I might say, I had more than four times the value of 
my first cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my poor neigh- 
bour, I mean in the advancement of my plantation : for the &«t 
thing I did, I bought me a Negro slave, and a European servant 
also ; I mean another besides that which the captain brought 

<e from Lisbon. 
But as abused prosperity is ofteijtiriies made the very means 
of our adversity, so was it with me^ I went on the next year 
with great success in my plantatkm; I raised fifty great rolls 
of tobacco on my own ground, more than I had disposed of for 
necessaries among my neighbours : and these fifly rolls, being 
each of above one hundred pounds weight, were well cured, and 
laid by against the retum of the fleet from Lisbon : and now, 
increasing in business and in wealth, my head began to be füll 
of projects and undertakinffs beyond my reach ; such as are, 
ipdeed, often the ruin of the best headb in business. Had I 
\ ß^ontinued in the Station I was now in, I had room for all the 
(y happy things to have yet befallen me, for which my father so 
^^^ eamestly recoramendea a quiet, retired life, and wmch he had 

^ P V I so sensibly described the middle Station of life to be füll of : but 
>r^ ^ I other things attended me, and I was still to be the wilful agent 
. ^ I of all my own miseries ; and, particularly, to increase my fault, 
- j^- \ ' and double the reflections upon myself, which in my future 
»>p-. sorrows I should have leisure to make, all these miscarriages 

. , ' . were procured by my apparent obstinate adhering to my foohsh 
inclination, of wandering about, and pursuing that inclinatioo, 
;; in contradiction to the clearest views of doing myself good in a 

fair and piain pursuit of those prospects, and those measures of 
life, which nature and Providence concurred to present me with, 
and to make my dutyTl 

As I had once done^hus in breaking away from my parents, 
äo I could not be content now, but I must go and leave the 



d' 



KOBINSON CRUSOE. 29 



happy view I had of being a ricli and thriving man in my new / 

plantation, only to pursue a rash and immoderate desire of rising J 

faster than the nature of the thing admittedjfand thus I cast 
. . . , .... ^^^ 

,1uid 




To come then, by just degrees, to the particulars of this part 
of my Story. — Yon may supDose, that Iiaving now lived almost 
four years in the Brazils, and besinning to uirive and nrosper 
very urell upon my plantation, I nad not only leamed tne lan^ 
guage, but nad contracted an acquaintance and friendship among 
my fellow-planters, as well as among the merchants at St. Salva- 
dor, which was our port : and that, in my discourses among them, 
I had frequently given them an account of my two voyages to the 
coast of (juinea, the manner of trading with the Negroes there, 
and how easy it was to purchase on the coast for trifles — such as 
beads, toys, knives, sdssars, hatchets, bits of glass, and the like 
— ^not only gold dust, Guinea grains, elephants* teeth, &c., but 
Negroes, for the Service of the Brazils, in great numbers. 

They listened always very attentively to my discourses on 
these heads, but especially to that part which related to the 
buying Negroes ; which was a trade, at that time, not only not 
far entered into, but, as far as it was, had been carried on by the 
oMsietUos, or permission of the kings of Spain and Portugal, and 
en^ssed firom the public ; so that few Negroes were bought, 
ana those excessively dear. 

It happened, beine in Company with some merchants and 
planters of my acauamtance, and talking of those things very 
eamestly, three or them came to me the next moming, and told 
rae they had been musing very much upon what I had discoursed 
with them of the last night, and they came to make a secret pro- 
posal to me : and, after enjoining me to secrecy, they told me 
that they had a mind to fit out a ship to go to Gumea; that they 
had all plantations as well as I, and were straitened for nothing 
80 much as servants ; that as it was a trade that could not be 
carried on, because they could not publicly seil the Negroes when 
they came home, so they desired to make but one voyage, to 
bring the Negroes on shore privately, and divide them among 
their own plantations ; and, in a wora, the question was, whether 
I would go their supercargo in the ship, to manage the trading 

Eart upon the coast of Guinea; and they oflfered me that I should 
ave an equal share of the Negroes, without providing any part 
of the stock. 

This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed, had it been made 
to any one that had not a settlement and plantation of his own 
to look after, which was in a fair way of Coming to be very con- 
siderable, and with a good stock upon it. But for me, that was 
thus entered and established, and had nothing to do but go on as 
d2 



30 ABVENTURES OF 

I had began, for tliree or four years more, and to liave sent for 
the otlier hundred poonds from England; and who, in that time 
and with that littlc addition, could scarce liave faUed of being 
Tirorth three or four thousand pounds Sterling, and that in- 
creasing too ; for me to think of such a vojrage, was the most 
preposterous thing that ever man, in such circumstancesi could 
be guilty of. 

But I, that was bom to be my own destroyer, could no more 
resist the offer, than I could restrain my first rambling designs, 
when my father's good counsel was lost upon me. In a word, I 
told them I would go with all my heart, if they would undertake 
to look after my plantation in my absence, and would dispose of 
it to such as I should direct, if I miscarried. This tiiey aU 
engaged to do, and eutered into writings or covenants to do so : 
and I made a formal wül, disposing of my plantation and effects, 
in caseof my death; making the captain of the ship that had 
saved my life, as before, my universal heir ; but obliging him to 
dispose of my effects as I had directed in my will ; one-half of the 
produce being to himself, and the other to be shipped to England. 
In Short, I took all possible caution to preserve my effects, and 
to keep up my plantation : had I used half as much prudence to 
have looked into my own interest, and have made a judgment of 
what I ought to have done and not to have done, I had certainly 
never gone away fröm so prosperous an undertaking, leaving aU 
the probable views of a thriving circumstance, and gone a voyage 
to sea, attended with all its common hazards, to say nothing of 
the reasons I had to expect particular misfortunes to myself. 

But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindl^ the dictates of my 
fancy, rather than my reason : and accordmgly, the ship, being 
fitted out, and the cargo fonished, and all tmngs done as by 
agreement, by my partners in the voyage, I went on board in an 
evil hour agam, the first of September, 1659, being the same day 
eight years that I went from my parents at Hüll, in order to act 
the rebel to their authority, anä the fool to my own interest. 

Our ship was about one himdred and twenty tons bürden, 
carried six guns and fourteen men, besides the master, bis boy, 
and myself; we had on board no large cargo of goods, except of 
such toys as were fit for our trade vrith the Negroes, sucn as 
beads, bits of glass, shells, and odd trifles, especiaUy little look- 
ing-glasses, knives, scissars, hatchets, and the like. 

The very same day I went on board we set sail, Standing away 
to the northward upon our own coast, with design to Stretch 
over for the African coast. When they came about ten or twelve 
degrees of northern latitude, which, it seems, was the manner of 
their course in those days, we had very good weather, only 
excessively bot all the way upon our own coast, tili we came to 
the height of Cape St. Augustino ; from whence, keeping farther 
off at sea, we lost sight of land, and steered as if we were bound 



ROBINSOX CRUSOE, 31 

for tlie isle Fernando de Noronha, holding oiir coiirse N.E, hjr N. 
and leaving Üiose isles on ihe east. In tbb course we pasaed 
the Line in abont twclve daya' time, and were, bj our last 
Observation, in seven degrees twenty-two mintites northem lati- 
tude, when a violent lornado, or hurricane, took us quite out of 
OUT knowledge : it began froin tlie stmth-east^ came ab out to the 
Dortb-west, and then aettled in the north-east ; from wbence it 
bleinr in sucb a terrible manner, tbat for twelve days together we 
could do notbing but drive» and, scuddiug away before it, let it 
carry us wbithersoevcr fate and tbe fury of the winds directed ; 
and, during these twelve days, I need not say tliat I expected 
cvery day to be awallowed up j nor, indeedj did any in tbe &hip 
expect to save Ibeir livea. 

In this distress, we bad, besides tbe terror of Ihe Ktorm, one of 

OUT raen died of the calenture, and one man and a boy washed 

overboard. About the twelfth day, the weathcr abating a little, 

the master made an Observation as well as he could, and found 

[ tbat he was in about eleven degrees north latitude, but that be 

iwas twenty-two dej^rees of longitude düference, west from Cape 

I St Augnstino j so that be found he was got upon the coast of 

Guiana; or tbe north part of Brazil, beyond the river AmtLijona, 

[ toward that of the river Oronoco, comraonly called the Great 

[River; and began to conault witb me what conrae he should 

' take, for the sbip was leaky and very mucb disabled, and be was 

for going directly back to the coast of BraziL 

1 was positively against that ; and lookiog over the cbarts of 

tbe sea-coast of America witb bim, we contludcd there was no 

inbabited country for us to have recoursc to, tili we carae within 

I tbe circle of the Carribee Islands, and therefore resolved to stand 

^ away for Barbadoes ; wbich by keeping off to sea, to avoid the 

indraft of tbe bay or guif of Mexico^ we might easily perform, as 

we hoped, in about fifteen days' eail; whereas we could not 

possibly make our voyage to the coast of Africa wilhout some 

t ftsaiatance, botb to our ship and ouraelves. 

Witb tbis design, we changed our course, and steered away 

K.W» by W, in order to reach some of our Englisb Islands, where 

i boped for relief : but our voyage was otherwiae determined ; 

1 Ibr being in the latitude of twelve degrees eigbteen minutea a 

[iocond storm came upon us, wbich carried us away with the 

rtAme impetuosity westward, and drove us so out of the very way 

lof all human commerce, that had all our Uvea been saved, as to 

I t!ic sea, we wereratber in danger of being devoured by savages 

ihan ever retuming to our own country. 

In this distress^ the wind still blowing very hard, one of our 

lifncn early in the morning, cried out, Land ! aud we had no 

eooncr run out of the cabin fo look out, in bopea of seeing 

whereaboutä in the world we were, than the ship Struck upon 

► «Aod, aud in a moment, her motion being so stopped, the sea 



32 ADVENTÜRES OP 

broke over her in such a manner, that vre expected we should air 
have perished immediately ; and we were immediately driven 
into our close quarters, to shelter us from the very foam and 
spray of the sea. 

It is not eas^ for any one who has not been in tbe Uke con- 
dition to descnbe or conceive tbe constemation of men in such 
circumstances : we knew nothing where we were, or upon what 
land it was we'were driven, whether an island or the main, 
whether inhabited or not inhabited ; and as the rage of the wind 
was still great, though rather less than at first, we could not so 
much as hope to have the ship hold many minutes without 
breaking in pieces, unless the wind, by a kind of miracle, should 
inunediately turn about. In a word we sat looking upon one 
another, and expecting death every moment, and every man 
acting accordingly, as preparing for another world ; for there 
was little or nothing more for us to do in this : that which was 
our present comfort, and all the comfort we had, was, that, con 
trary to our expectation, the ship did not break yet, and that 
the master said the wind began to abate. 

Now, though we thought that the wind did a little abate, vet 
the ship having thus Struck upon the sand, and sticking too mat 
for US to expect her getting off, we were in a dreadful condition 
indeed, and had nothing to do, but to think of saving our lives 
as well as we could. We had a boat at our stern just before the 
storm, but she was first staved by dashing against the ship 's 
rudder, and, in the next place, she broke away, and either sunk, 
or was driven off to sea ; so there was no hope from her : we 
had another boat on board, but how to get her off into the sea 
was a doubtful thing; however, there was no room to debate, 
for we fancied the ship would break in pieces every minute, and 
some told us she was actually broken already. 

In this distress, the mate of our vessel laid hold of the boat, 
and with the help of the rest of the men, they got her flune over 
the ship 's side ; and getting all into her, we let her go, and com- 
mitted ourselves, being eleven in number, to God's mercy, and 
the wild sea : for though the storm was abated considerably, yet 
the sea went dreadfully high upon the shore, and might be 
well called den wild zee, as the Dutch call the sea in a storm. 

And now our case was very dismal indeed ; for we all saw 
plainly, that the sea went so high, that the boat could not live, 
and that we should be inevitably drowned. As to making saD, 
we had none ; nor, if we had, could we have done anything with 
it; so we worked at the oar towards the land, though with heavy 
iiearts, like men going to execution ; for we all knew that when 
the boat came nearer to the shore, she would be dashed in a 
thousand pieces by the breach of the sea. However, we com- 
mitted our souls to God in the most eamest manner ^ and the 
wind driving us towards the shore, we hastened our destruc- 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 33 

tion with cur own hands, pulling as well as we could towards 
laod. 

What the shore was— whether rock or sand, whetliersteep or 
shoal — we knew not ; the only hope that could rationally give 
US the least sbadow of expectation, was, if we might happen 
into some bay or gulf, or the mouth of some river, where by 
great chance we might have run our boat in, or got under the 
lee of the land, and perhaps made smooth water. But nothing 
of this appeared ; and as we made nearer and nearer the shore, 
the land looked more frightful than the sea. 

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league and a 
half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-like, came roUing 
astem of us, and plainly bade us expect the coup de grace. In 
a Word, it took us with such fury, that it overset the boat at 
once ; and separating us, as well from the boat as from one 
another, gave us not time hardly to say, " O God ! " for we were 
all swaUowed up in a moment. 

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I feit, 
when I sunk into the water; for though I swam very well, yet/ 
1 could not deli ver myse lf from the yaves so a^ to draw my l 
UWUlh, mi ihal waVä havillg dlriven me , or rather carried me, a ^ 
vftSTway on towards the shore, and having spent itself, went 
back, and left me upon the land ahnost dry, but half dead with 
the water I took in. I had so much presence of mind, as well as 
breath left, that seeing myself nearer the main land than I ex- 
pected, I got upon my feet, and endeavoured to make on towards 
the land as fast as I could, before another wave should retum 
and take me up again ; but I soon found it was impossible to 
avoid it ; for I saw the sea come after me as high as a great hill, 
and as furious as an euemy which I had no means or strength to 
contend with : my business was to hold my breath, and raise 
myself upon the water, if I could ; and so, by swimming, to pre- 
serve my breathing, and pilot myself towards the shore, if pos- 
sible ; my greatest concem now being, that the wave, as it would 
carry me a great way towards the shore when it came on, might 
not carry me back again with it when it gave back towards the sea. 

The wave that came upon me again buried me at once twenty 
or thirty feet deep in its own body ; and I could feel myself car- 
ried with a mighty force and swiftness towards the shore, a very 
great way ; but I held my breath, and assisted myself to swim 
still forward with all my might. I was ready to burst with 
holding my breath, when, as I feit myself rising up, so, to my 
immediate relief, I found my head and hands shoot out above 
the surface of the water ; and though it was not two seconds of 
time that I could keep myself so, yet it relieved me greatly, gave 
me breath and new courage. I was covered again with water a 
good while, but not so long but I held it out ; and finding the 
water had spent itself, and began to retum, I Struck forward 
against the retum of the waves, and feit ground again with my 



34 ADVENTURES OF 

feet. I stood still a few moments, to recover breath, and tili the ' 
water went from me, and then took to my heels, and ran with whai 
strength 1 had farther towards the sbore. Bat neither would this 
deliver me from the fury of the sea, which came pouring in alter 
me again ; and twice more I was lifted .up by .the waves and 
carried forwards as before, the shore being very flat. 

The last time of these two had well nigh been fatal to me; finr 
the sea, having hurried me along, as before, landed me, or rttiher 
dashedme, against a piece of a rock, and that with snch force, tibAt 
it left me senseless, and indeed helpless, as to my own deliVersoM ;■ 
for the blow, taking my side and breast, beat the breath, as it 
were, quite out of my body ; and had it retumed again imme-! 
diately, I raust have been strangledin the water :.but I recoYier^. 
a little before the retum of the waves, and, seeing I should agaht^ 
be covered with the water, I resolved to hold fast bv a piece of 
the rock, and so to hold my breath, if possible, tili the waye. 
went back. Now as the waves were not so high as the fint,. 
being nearer land, I held my hold tili the wave abated, and then 
fetched another ran, whichbrought me so near the shore, thät 
the next wave, though it went over me, yet did not so swaUow 
me ap as to carry me away ; and the next run I took, I got to 
the main land ; where, to my great comfort, I clambered up the 
clififs of the shore, and sat me down upon the grass, free from 
danger, and quite out of the reach of the water. 

I was now landed, and safe on shore ; and began to look np 
and thank God that my life was saved, in a case wherein there 
were, some minutes before, scarcely any room to hope. I be- 
lieve it is impossible to express, to the life, what the ecstasies 
and transports of the soid are, when it is so saved, as I may say, 
out of the grave : and I did not wonder now at the custom, viz., 
that when a malefactor, who has the halter about his neck, ia 
tied up, and just going to be tumed ofif, and has a reprieve 
brought to him ; I say, I do not wonder that they bring a surgeon 
with it, to let him blood that very moment tney teU him of it» 
that the surprise may not drive the animal spirits from the 
heart, and overwhelm him. 

For sudden Joys, like griefli, confound at fint 

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands, and my 
whole being, as I may say, wrapped up in the contemplation of 
my deliverance ; raaking a thousand gestures and motions, which 
I cannot describe; reflecting upon my comrades that were 
drowned, and that there should not be one soul saved but my- 
self ; for, as for them, I never saw them afterwards, or any sign 
of them, except three of their hats, one cap, and two shoes that 
were not fellows. 

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel — when the breach and 
froth of the sea being so big I could hardly see it, it lay so far oflf— 
and considered, Loa ! how was it possible I could get on shore ? 



KOBINSON CEUSOE. 



35 



After I had solaced my mind Tvith the comfortable part of my 
condition, I began to look around me, to see what kind ofa place 
I was in, and what was next to be done ; and I soon found my 
comforts abate, and that, in a word, I bad a dreadful deliverance : 
for I was wet, bad no clotbes to sbift me, nor anytbing either to v 
eat or drink, to comfort me ; neitber did I see any prospect be- \ 
fore me, but tbat of perishing witb bunger, or being devoured \ 
by wild beasts : and that which was particularly afflicting to me \ 
was, that I had no weapon either to bunt and kill any creature I 
for my sustenance, or to defend myself against any other crea- 1 
ture that might desire to kill me for theirs. In a word, I had j 
nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a little tobacco ( 
in a box. This was all my provision ; and tbis threw me into j 
such terrible agonies of mind, that, for a while, I ran about like / 
a raadman. Night Coming upon me, I began, witb a heavy heart, / 
to consider what would be my lot if there were any ravenous/ 
beasts in that country, seeing at night they always come abroad 
for their prey. 

All the remedy that oflfered to my thoughts, at that time, was, 
to get up into a thick bushy tree, like a fir, but thomy — which 
grew near me, and where I resolved to sit all night — and con- 
sider the next day what death I should die, for as yet I saw no 
prospect of life. I walked about a fdrlong from the shore, to 
see if I could find any fresh water to drink, which I did, to my 
great joy ; and having drank, and put a little tobacco into my 
mouth to prevent bunger, I went to the tree, and getting up 
into it, endeavoured to place myself so as that, if I should fall 
asleep, I might not fall ; and having cut me a short stick. Uke a 
truncheon, for my defence, I took up my lodging; and having 
been excessively fatigued, I feil fast asleep, and slept as com- 
fortably as, I believe, few could have done m my condition ; and 
found myself the most refreshed with it that I think I ever was 
on such an occasion. 




86 



ADVENTURISS OP 



e:<r ': 



.f^x>^-., 




SECTION V 



ROBINSON FINDS HIMSELP IN A DESOLATE ISLAND — PROCURES A 
STOCK OF ARTICLES PROM THE WRECK — CONSTRÜCTS HIS 
HABITATION. 

When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and the 
Storni abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as before ; 
but that which surprised me most was, that the ship was lifted 
oflf in the night from the sand where she lay, by the swelling of 
the tide, and was driven up almost as far as the rock which I at 
first mentioned, where I had been so bruised by the wave dashing 
me against it. This being within about a mile from the shore 
where I was, and the ship seeming to stand upright still, I 
wished myself on board, that at least I might save sorae neces- 
sary things for my use. 

When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I looked 
about me again, and the first thing I found was the boat ; which 
lay, as the wind and the sea had tossed her up, upon the land, 
about two miles on my right band. I walked as far as I could 
upon the shore to have got to her ; but found a neck, or inlet, 
of water, between me and the boat, which was about half a mile 
broad ; so I came back for the present, being more intent upon 
getting at the ship, where I hoped to find something for my 
present subsistence. 

A little after noon, I found the sea very calm, and the tide 
ebbed so far out, that I could come within a quarter of a mile of 
the ship : and here I found a fresh renewing of my grief ; for I 
saw evidently, that if we had kept on board, we had been all safe ; 
that is to say, we had all, got safe on shore, and I had not been 
so miserable as to be lefe entirdty destitute of all comfort and 
Company, as I now was. This forced tears from my eyes again; 
but as their was little relief in that, I resolved, if possible, to get 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 37 

to the ship : so I pulled off my clothes, for the weather was hot 
to extremity, and took the water: but when I came to the ship, 
my difficulty was still greater to know how to get on board ; for 
as she lay aground, and high out of the water, there was nothing 
within my reach to lay hold of. I swam round her twice, and 
the second tirae I spied a small piece of rope, which I wondered 
I did not see at first, hang down by the fore-chains so low, as 
that with great difficulty I got hold of it, and by the help of that 
rope got into the forecastle of the ship. Here I found that the 
ship was bulged, and had a great deal of water in her hold ; but 
that she lay so on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather 
earth, that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head 
low, almost to the water. By this means all her quarter was 
free, and all that was in that part was dry ; for you may be sure 
my first work was to search and to see what was spoiled and 
what was free : and, first, I found that all the ship's provisions 
were dry and imtouched by the water ; and, being very well dis- 
posed to eat, I went to the bread-room, and filled my pockets 
with biseuit, and ate it as I went about other things, for I had 
no time to lose. I also found some rum in the great cabin, of 
which I took a large dram, and which I had indeed need enough 
of, to spirit me for what was before me. Now I wanted nothing 
but a boat, to fonish myself with many things which I foresaw 
would be very necessary to me. 

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be had, 
and this extremity roused my application : we had several spare 
yards, and two or three large spars of wood, and a spare top- 
mast or two in the ship ; I resolved to fall to work T\ith these, 
and flung as many overboard as I could manage for their weight, 
tjring every one with a rope, that they might not drive away. 
When this was done, I went down the ship's side, and pulling 
them to me, I tied four of them fast together at both ends, as 
well as I could, in the form of a raft, and laying two or three 
Short pieces of plank upon them, crossways, I found I could 
walk upon it very weU, but that it was not able to bear any 
great weight, the pieces being too light : so I went to work, and 
with the carpenter's saw I cut a spare topmast into three 
lengths, and added them to my raft, with a great deal of labour 
and pains. But the hope of furnishing myself with necessaries, 
encouraged me to go beyond what I should have been able to 
have done upon another occasion. 

My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable 
weight. .My next care was what to load it with, and how to 
preserve what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea ; but I was 
not long considering this. I first laid all the planks or boards 
upon it that I could get, and having considered well what I most 
wanted, I got three of the seamen's cbests, which I had broken 
open and emptied, and lowered them down upon my raft ; these 



38 ADVENTURES OF 

I filled witli provisions, viz. bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, fiye 

Eieces of dried goats' fiesh (which we lived much upon), and a 
ttle remainder of European com, 'which had been laid bv for 
some fowls wMcb we had brought to sea with us, but the fowls 
were killed. There had been some barley and wheat together, 
but, to my great disappointment, I found afterwards that the 
rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found seyeral 
cases of botües belonging to our skipper, in which were some 
cordial waters ; and, in all, about five or six gallons of rack. 
These I stowed by tiiemselyes, there being no need to put them 
into the chests, nor any room for them. While I was doing this, 
I found the tide began to flow, though very calm ; and I had the 
mortification to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had 
left on shore, upon the sand, swim away ; as for my breeches, 
which were omy linen, and open-kneed, I swam on board in 
them, and my stockings. However, this put me upon rummag- 
ing for clothes, of which I found enough, but took no more than 
I wanted for present use, for I had other things which my eye 
was more upon ; as, first, tools to work with on shore : and it 
was after long searching that I found the carpenter's ehest, 
which was indeed a very useftd prize to me, and much more 
valuable than a ship-lading of gold wouid have been at that time. 
I got it down to my raft, even whole as it was, without losing 
time to look into it, for I knew in general what it contained. 

My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There 
were two very good fowling-pieces in the great cabin, and two 
pistols; these I secured first, with some powder-homs and a 
small bag of shot, and two old rusty swords. I knew there were 
three barreis of powder in the ship, but knew not where our 
gunner had stowed them ; but with much search I found them, 
two of them dry and good, the third had taken water. Those 
two I got to my raft, with the arms. And now I thought my- 
seif pretty well freighted, and began to think how I should get 
to shore with them, having neither saU, oar, nor rudder ; and 
the least capfdl of wind would have overset all my navigation. 

I had three encouragements : 1 st, A smooth, calm sea : 
2dly, The tide rising, and setting in to the shore ; 3dly, What 
üttle wind there was blew me towards the land. And thus, 
having found two or three broken oars belonging to the boat, 
and besides the tools which were in the ehest, I foimd two saws, 
an axe, and a hammer ; and with this cargo I put to sea. For 
a mile, or thereabouts, my raft went very well, only that I found 
it drive a little distant irom the place where I had landed before; 
by which I perceived that there was some indraft of the water, 
and consequently I hoped to find some creek or river there, which 
I might make use of as a port to get to land with my cargo. 

As I imagined, so it was : there appeared before me a little 
opening of the Ujid, and I found a strong current of the tide set 



E0BIK80N CRUSOE. 



m 



into it; so I guidcd my railt, as vrell as I could, to get ioto tbe 
middle of tbe stream. . But here I liad like to have suffered a 
second aliipwreck, which, if I liad, I tliink it verily wouid have 
broken my heart ; for, knowiög nothin^ of the coast, my raft ran 
aground at one end of it upon a shoal» and, not belog agroimd 
at the other end, it wanted but a little that all my cargo had 
slipped ofi'towards tbat end that was aäoat, and so fallen into 
the water, I did my utmost, by setting my back againat tbe 
chests, to keep tbem in their placea, but conld not thrust off the 
raft witb all my Btreng:th ; neither durst I stir irom the posture 
1 was in, bat boldingr up the chesta witb all my might, I stood in 
thiit manner iiear half an hoiir^ La whit'b tiine tbe ri^ng of tbe 
^ater brought rae a little more upon a level ; and a little after, 
the water still rising, my raft tloated again, and I thnist her off 
witb tbe oar I had into the channelj and then driving up bigher, 
I at leogth füimd myself in tbe mouth of a little river, with land 
Oll both sides, and a strong current or lide running up. I looked 
on both sides for a proper place to gct to öhore, for 1 was not 
wUling to be diiven too high up the river; bopiog, in time, to 
eee some sbip at sea, and tberefore resolved to place myself as 
iiear the coast as I could. 

At lengtb I spied a little cove on tbe right sbore of tbe creek, 
to whicb» witb great pain and difliculty, 1 guided my raft, and 
at last ffot so near^ as that, reacbing groimd with my oar, I could 
thrust her directly in ; but here I hud Uke to have dipped all my 
cargo into the sea again ; for that shore lying pretty steep, tbat 
la to say, sloping, there was no place to land, but wbere one 
end of 'my Öoat, if it ran on shore, would lie so high, and the 
otber sink lower, as bcforc, that it would endanger my cargo 
again. All that I could do was to wait tili the tide was at the 
bighest, keeping the raft witb my oar iike an anchor, to hold 
the aide of it fast to tbe shore, near a Hat pieee of ground, wbicb 
I expected the water would flow over ; and so it did, As soon 
as I found water enougb, formy raft drew about a foot of water, 
I thrust her upon tbat flat piece of ground^ and there fastened 
or moored her, by sticking my two broken oars into the ground, 
one on one side, near one end, and one on tbe otber side, ncar 
the other end : and thns I lay üE the water ebbed away, and left 
my raft and all my cargo safe on shore. 

My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper 
plac^ for my habitation, and where to stow my goods, to eecure 
them from whatever migbt happen. Whei'e I was 1 yet knew 
not ; whetber on the continent, or on an island ; whether inba- 
hited, or not inhabited ; whetber in danger of \dld beasts, or not. 
There was a biü, not above a mile from me, which rose up very 
»tecp and high, and which seemed to overtop some other hills, 
which lay as in a ridge from it, northward, I took out one of 
tbe fowlmg-pieces, and one of the pistols, and ahora of powder; 



40 ADVENTÜRES OF 

and thus armed, I travelled for discovery up to tbe top of that 
hill ; where, afber I had, with great labour and difficnlty, got up 
to the top, I saw my fate, to my great affliction, viz. that I was 
in an Island, environed every way -mth the sea, no land to be 
Seen, except some rocks, which lay a great way off, and two small 
Islands, less than this, which lay about three leagues to the west 

I found also that the island I was in was harren, and, as I 
saw good reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wild beasts, 
of whom, however, I saw none ; yet I saw abundance of fowls, 
but knew not their kinds ; neither, when I killed them, could 
I teil what was fit for food, and what not. At my Coming back, 
I shot at a great bird, which I saw sitting upon a tree, on the 
side of a great wood. I believe it was the first gun that had 
been fired there since the creation of the world : I had no sooner 
fired, but from all the parts of the wood there arose an innu- 
merajble number of fowls, of many sorts, making a confused 
screaming, and crying, every one according to his usual note; 
but not one of them of any kind that I knew. As for the crea- 
ture I killed, I took it to be a kind of a hawk, its colour and beak 
resembling it, but it had no talons or claws more than common. 
Its flesh was Carrion and fit for nothing. 

Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft, and 
feil to work to bring my cargo on shore, which took me up the 
rest of that day : what to do with myself at night I knew not, 
nor indeed where to rcst ; for I was afraid to lie down on the 
ground, not knowing but some wild beast might devour me; 
though, as I afterwards found, there was really no needfor those 
fears. However, as well as I could, I barricadoed myself round 
with the chests and boards that I had brought on shore, and 
made a kind of hut for that night's lodging. As for food, 1 yet 
saw not which way to supply myself, except that I had seen two 
or three creatures, like hares, run out of the wood where I shot 
the fowl. 

I now began to consider that I might yet get a great many 
things out of the ship, which would be useful to me, and par- 
ticularly some of the rigging and sails, and such other things as 
might come to land ; and I resolved to make another voyage on 
board the vessel, if possible. And as I knew that the first stprm 
that blew must necessarily break her all in pieces, I resolved to 
set all other things apart, tili I got everything out of the ship 
that I could get. Then I called a Council, that is to say, in my 
thoughts, whether I should take back the raft; but this appeared 
impracticable : so I resolved to go as before, when the tide was 
down ; and I did so, only that I stripped before I went from my 
hut; having nothing on but a chequered shirt, a pair oflinen 
drawers, and a pair of pumps on my feet. 

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second raft; 
and having had experience of the first, I neither made this so 



ROBIKßON CRUSOE* 



41 



unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard, but yet I brougbt away several 
tbings very useM to me ; ag, first, iu tlie carpenter's Stores, I 
founJ two or three bags of nails and spikes^ a great screw-jack, 
a doEca ot two of hatchcts ; and, ahove all, tbat most useful 
thing catled a ^indstone. All tbese I securcd together, witli 
Beveral tliings beloDging to the gurmer; parlicularly, two or 
tliree iron crows, aiid tw o barreis of musket buUets, aeven mus- 
kets, and anotber fowling-piece, witli some small quaatity of 
powder morc ; a large bag füll of small sbot, and a great toü of 
sheet lead; but tbis last was so hoary, 1 could not boist it up 
to get it over the sliip's side. Besidcs thcsc tbings» I took all 
the men's clotliea tbat I coiild find, and a spare fore-topsail, a 
bammock) and some beddingj and witb tbis I loaded my second 
raft, and brougbt tbem all safe on sbore, to my very great 
comfort 

I was imder some apprebetisions lest, diiring my absence from 
tbe land, my provisions migbt be devoured on shore : but wben 
I came lyack, I foiind no sign of any visitor ; only tbere sat a 
CFeature like a wild cat, upon one of the cbeats, whicb, wbeti l 
fcame towards it, ran away a little dtstance, and then stood still. 
Sbe sat very composed and unconccrtied, and looked iull in my 
face, as if she had a mind to be a<:quaiiited witb rae. I presented 
my gun to her, but, as sbe did not iinderstand it, sbe was per- 
fectly uncoücerned at it, nor did she offer to stir away; upon 
whicb I tossed her a bit of biscuit, thougb, by the way^ I was 
not very free of it, for my störe was not great; bowever, I spared 
her a bit, I say, and sbe went to it, smclled of it, and ate it, and 
looked (as pleased) for more ; but 1 tbanked her, and could spare 
HO more : so she marched oE 

Having got my accond cargo on sboTQ — though I was fain to 
open tbe barreis of powder, and bring them by parcela, for they 
were too heavy^ being large caaks — I went to work to make me 
n little tent, with the sail, and some poles, whicb I ciit for that 
piirpose ; and into tbis tent 1 brougbt evcry thing that 1 knew 
would'spoil eitber with rain or sun ; and 1 piled all tbe erapty 
ehcsts and casks np in a circle ronnd the tent, to fortify it ftom 
any sudden attempt either frora man or beast 

Wlien 1 had done tbis, I blotked np tbe door of tbe tent with 
«ome boards within, and an cmpty ehest sot up on end without; 
and spreiiding one of the beds upon the ground, la) ing my two 
pistnls just at my bead, and my gnn at length by me, I went to 
ned for the first time, and slept very qnietly all night, for I was 
verv weary and heavy ; for tbe night before I bad slept little, and 
bau Iflbnured very bard all day, as well to fetch all those tliings 
from the ship, as to get them on shore. 

I bad the Mggest magazinc of all kinds now tbat ever was laid 
up, I belicve, for one man: but I was not satisfied still; for 
VI hilc the ßhip siit iipright in that posture, 1 tbougbt I ought to 



42 ADVENTURES OF 

get every tbing out of her that I could; so ever^r day, at low 
water, I went on board, and brouglit away sometmng or other ; 
bat particiilarly the tbird time I went, I brought away a^^miiäi 
qf tne rigging as Icoüld, as also all the smaO rdpes aiid rope- 
twine I could get, with a piece of* spare canvass,wlddi Was'to 
mend the sails upon occasion, and the barrel of wet giinpowder. 
In a Word,- 1 brought away aU the sails first and last ; onlj^ that 
I was fain to cut them in pieces, and bring as'mubh ät« time äs 
I could ; for they were no möre usefiil to be sftils, butas mere 
canvass only. 

But that which comforted me still more was, that, lastofaU, 
afber I had.made'five or six such voyages as'these, "and thought 
I had nothing mofe to expect fröm the ship that was Wdtth my 
-meddling with ; ' I say, alter all this, I found a great hogshead of 
bread, and three lai^^ runlets of rum or spirits, and a box. of 
sugar, and a barrel of fine fiour ; this was sürprisine to me, be- 
cause I had given over expectii^ any morö {jrovislons, except 
what was spoiled by the water; I soon emptied the hogshead 
ofthat bread, and wrapped it up, parcel by parcel, in pieces of 
'the sails, which I cut out; and, in a word, I got all this safe on 
shore also. 

The next day I made another voyage, and uow having plnn- 
dered the ship of what was portable and fit to band out, *I be^an 
with the cables, änd cutting the great cable into pieces sndi-ils 
fl could move, I got two cables and a hawser on shore, with aSl 
the iron work I could get ; and having cut down the spritsaü- 
yard, and the mizen-yard, and everything I could, to make a 
large raft, I loaded it with all those heavy goods, and icame 
away : bnt my i^'^^j Itlfi]; btffan nTTTp^ tn InnYe me ; for this ntft 
was so unwieldy, ana so overladen, that after I was enteredxtbe 
* little cove, where I had landed the rest of my goods, not bei% 
able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it overset, add 
threw me and all my cargo into the water ; as for myself,'it was 
no great härm, for I was near the shore ; but as to my cargö, 
it was a great part of it lost, especially the iron, which I-ex- 
pected would have been of great use to me : however, when the 
üde was out, I got most of the pieces of cable ashore, and some 
of the iron, though with infinite labour; for I was fain to dip 
for it into the water, a work which fatigued me very much. 
After this I went every day on board, and brought away what 
I could get. 

I I had been now thirteen days ashore, and had been eleven 
/ times on board the ship ; in which time I had brought away all 
( that one pair of hands could well be supposed capable to brine; 
though I believe verily, had the calm weather held, I^should 
have brought away the whole ship, piece by piece, but preparing, 
the twelfth time, to go on board, 1 found the wind began to rise : 
however, at low water, I went on board j and though I thought 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 43 

I had mmmaged tbe cabin so effectually, as that Dotbing could 
be foundy yet I discovered a locker witb drawers in it, in one of 
wbicb I found two or three razors, and one pair of large scissars, 
witb some ten or a dozen of good knives and forks ; in anotber 
I found about tbirty-six pounds in money, some European coin, 
some Brazil, some pieces of eigbt, some gold, and some silver. 

I smiled to myself at tbe sigbt of tbis money ; O drug ! I 
exdaimed, wbat art tbou good for? Tbou art not wortb to me, 
no, not tbe taking off tbe ground ; one of tbose knives is wortb 
all tbis beap : I bave no manner of use for tbee ; e'en remain 
wbere tbou art, and go to tbe bottom, as a creature wbose life 
is not wortb saving. ITmyri^^Ti iiymi ^r nnnd tbonp jbta ^ I tnn k 
it away; and wrapping all tbis in a piece of canvass, 1 began to 
fSink ftf making anotber raft ; but wbile I was preparing tbis, I 
found tbe sky overcast, and tbe wind began to rise, and in a quar- 
ter of an bour it blew a fresb gale from tbe sbore. It presently 
oocurred to me, tbat it was in vain to pretend to make a raft witn 
tbe wind off sbore ; and tbat it was mj business to be gone 
before tbe tide of flood began, or otberwise I might not be able 
to reacb tbe sbore at all. Accordingly I let myself down into 
tbe water, and swam across tbe cbannel wbicb lay between tbe 
sbip and tiie sands, and even tbat witb difficulty enougb, partly 
witb tbe weigbt of tbe tbings I bad about me, and partly tbe 
rougbness of tbe water; for tbe wind rose very bastily, and be- 
fore it was quite bigb water it blew a storm. 

But I was got bome to my little tent, wbere I lay, witb all 
my wealtb about me very secure. It blew very bard all tbat 
nigbt, and in tbe morning, wben I looked out, bebold no more 
sbip was to be seen ! I was a little surprised, but recovered my-*^ 
seif witb tbis satisfactory reflection, viz. tbat I bad lost no time, 1 
nor abated no diligence, to get everytbing oiit of ber, tbat could I 
be useful to me, and tbat, indeed, tbere was little leftin ber tbat/ 
I was able to bring away, if I bad bad more time. J 

I now gave over any more thoughts of tbe sbip, or of anj^ 
tbing out of ber, except wbat might drive on sbore, from ber 
wreck ; as, indeed, divers pieces of her afterwards did ; but tbose 
tbings were of small use to me. 

My tbougbts were now whoUy employed about securing myself 
against either savages, if any sbould appear, or wild beasts, if 
any were in tbe island ; and 1 bad many tboughts of tbe metbod 
bow to do tbis, and wbat kind of dwelling to make, wbetber I 
sbould make me a cave in tbe earth, or a tent upon tbe eartb ; 
and, in sbort, I resolved upon botb ; tbe manner and description 
of wbicb, it may not be improper to give an account of. 

1 soon found tbe place I was in was not for my settlement, 
particularly because it was upon a low, moorisb ground, near 
tbe sea, and I believed it would not be wbolesome ; and more 
particularly because tbere was no fresb water near it: so J 

£ 



44 ADVENTÜRES OP 

resolved to find a more healtliy and more convenient spot of 
ground. 

I consulted several tldngs in my Situation, which I found 
would be proper for me ; first, air and fresh water, I just now 
mentioned : secondly, shelter from the heat of the sun ; thirdly, 
security from ravenous creatures, wliether men or beasts: 
fourthly, a view to tbe sea, tliat if God sent any ship in sight, I 
might not lose any advantage for my deliverance, of which I was 
not willing to banish all my expectation yet. 

In search for a place proper for this, I found a little piain on 
the side of a rising hill, whose front towards this little piain was 
steep as a house-side, so that nothing could come down upon 
me from the top. On the side of this rock, there was a hoUow 
place, worn a little way in, like the entrance or door of a cave ; 
but there was not really any cave, or way into the rock, at all. 

On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place, I re- 
solved to pitch my tent. This piain was not above a hundred 
yards broad, and about twice as long, and lay like a green be- 
fore my door; and, at the end of it, descended irregularly every 
way down into theJow ground by the seaside. It was on the 
N.N.W, side of the hill; so that it was sheltered from the heat 
every day, tiU it came to a W. and by S. sun, or thereabouts, 
which, in those countries, is near the setting. 

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-cirde before the hollow 
place, which took in about ten yards in its semi-diameter from 
the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter, from its beginning 
and ending. 

In this half-circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes, driving 
them into the groimd tiU they stood very firm like piles, the 
biggest end being out of the ground, about five feet and a half, 
and sharpened on the top The two rows did not stand above 
six inches from one another. 

Then I took the pieces of cable which I cut in the ship, and 
laid them in rows, one upon another, within the circle, between 
these two rows of stakes, up to the top, placing other stakes in 
the inside, leaning against them, about two feet and a half high, 
like a spur to a post ; and this fence was so strong, that neither 
man nor beast could get into it or over it, This cost me a great 
deal of time and labour, especially to cut the piles in the woods, 
bring them to the place, and drive them into the earth. 

The entrance into this place I made to be not by a door, but 
by a Short ladder to go over the top ; which ladder, when I was 
in, I lifted over after me ; and so I was completely fenced in and 
fortified, as I thought, from all the world, and consequently slept 

Isecure in the night, which otherwise I could not have done; 
though, as it appeared afterwards, there was no need of all this 
caution against the enemies that I apprehended danger from. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 



45 



^^^^ 



SECTION VI. 



CA&EIES ALL HIB RICHZS, PROVISIONS, ETC* INTO HIB HABITATION 
^DREABJNESS OF SOUTUDE — CONSOLATORY REFLECTIOJS^S» 

lUTTO ihia fence, or fortress, with infinite laboiir, I carried jiU my 
riches, all my provisions, ammtmition^ and stores, of whicli you 
liave the accoiint above ; and I miide a large tent, wliich, to 
prescne me from tbe rains, tbat in one part of the year are very 
violent there, I niade double, viz. one smaller tent witbin, and 
nne larger tent above it, and covered the upperraost with a large 
larpauliü, wbich I had saved amoug tbe sails. 

And now I lay no more for a whüe in tbe bed wbicb I had 
brought on sliore, but in a bammönk, wliicb was indeed a very 
good one, and helonged to the matc of the ship* 

f nto tbis tent I brought all my provisions, and everything tbnt 
iirouldapoü by tbe wet; and having tlius eüclosed all my goods> 
t made up tbe entrance^ wbich tili now I had left open, and so 
pB3!*cd and repassed, as I said, by a short ladder. 
Wben I haJ done tbia, I hegan to work my way into tbe rock, 
^and bring^ng all tbe earth and «toiies tbat l dug do^ra out 
tbrougb my tent, I laid tbem up witbin my fcocc in the nature 
ol a terrace* bo thut it raised the ground within about a foot and 
LH half; and tbus 1 made me a cave, just behind my tent» wbich 
Drved me like a ccllar to my bouse, It co3t me much labour 
ind many days, before all tbese tbinga were brought to perfec- 
tion ; aiid tberefore I must go back to some nther things wbicb 
*.iip öome of my tboughts. At the samc tiine it happened, 
E 2 



46 ADYENTURES OF 

after I had laid my scheme for the setting up my tent, and 
making the cave, that a storm of rain falling from a thick, dark 
cloud, a sudden flasli of lightning happened, and after that, a 
great clap of thunder, as is naturally the effect of it. I was not 
so much surprised with the lightning, as I was with a thonght, 
which darted into my mind as swift as the lightning itself : O my 
powder ! My very heart sunk within me when I thought, that 
at one blast, all my powdei might be destroyed ; on which, not 
my defence only, bat the provi^g me food, as I thought, en- 
tirely depended. I was nothing near so auxious about my own 
dang^r, though, had the powder taken fire, 1 shoüld never have 
known who had hurt me. 

Such Impression did this make upon me, that after the storm 
was over, I laid aside all my works, my building and fortifying, 
and applied myself to make bags and boxes, to separate the 
powder, and to keep it a littU^ i^ a little in a parcel, in hope 
that whatever might come, it might not all take fire at once ; 
and to keep it so apart, that it should not be possible to make 
one part fire another. I finished this work in about a fortnight ; 
and I think my powder, which in all was about two hundred 
and forty pounas weight, was divided into not less than a hun- 
dred parcels. As to the barrel that had been wet, I did not 
apprehend any danger from that; so I placed it in my new cave, 
which, in my fancy, I called my kitchen, and the rest I hid up 
and down in holes among the rocks, so that no wet might come 
to it, marking very carefully where I laid it. 

In the interval of time whüe this was doing, I went out at 
least once every day with my gun, as well to divert myself, as 
to see if I could kill anything fit for food ; and, as near as I 
could, to acquaint myself with what the Island produced, The 
first time I went out, I presently discovered that there were 
goats upon the Island, which was a great satisfaction to me ; but 
then it was attended with this misfortune to me, viz. that they 
were so shy, so subtle, and so swift of foot, that it was the most 
difficult thing in the world to come at them : but I was not dis- 
couraged at this, not doubting but I might now and then shoot 
one, as it soon happened ; for after I had found their haunts a 
little, I laid wait in this manner for them ; I observed, if they 
saw me in the Valleys, though they were upon the rocks, they 
would run away as in a terrible fright; but if they were feedmg 
in. the Valleys, and I was upon the rocks, they took no notice of 
me ; from whence I concluded, that by the position of their 
optics, their sight was so directed downward, that they did not 
readily see objects that were above them : so afterwards, I took 
this method — I always climbed the rocks first, to get above 
them^ and then had frequently a fair mark. The first shot I made 
among these creatures, I killed a she-goat, which had a little kid 
by.her, which she gave suck to, which grieved me heartily; but 



HOBI^BON^ CRUSOE. 



47 



when the old one feil, the kid stood stock still by her, tili I carae 
and took her Tip ; and not only so, but when I carried the old 
one with me, upou my ähoulders, the kid follovved me quite to 
my enclosuTC ; upou which 1 kid down the dam, and took the 
kid in my anna, and carried it over my pale, in hopea to hav(» 
bred it up tarne ; but it Mvould not eat ; so I was forced to kill it, 
and eat it myseli". These two supplied me with Üesh a great 
while, for I ate sparitigly, and presen'ed iny provisions (my 
bread especially) aa much as possibly l could. 

Having now fixed my habitationt I Ibiind it absolutely ncces- 
sary to provide a place to make a fire in, and fuel to biirn ; and 
wbat I did for that, as also how I enlarged ray cave, and what 
conveniences I madc, 1 shall gi ve a liül account of it in itvS proper 
place : but I must tirst give so nie little account of myself, and 
of my thoughts about fiving, which, it may well be supposed, 
were not a few. ^ 

I had a dismal prospect of my condition ; for as I waa not I 
cast away upon that island without bein^ driven, as is said, by a 
violent storm quite out of the course of onr intcnded voyage ; 
and a great way, viz. some hundreds of leagucs, out of the 
ordinary course of the trade of m^inkind, I had great re^ison to 
considcr it as a determinatiop of lleaven. that in this desolate 
place, and in this desolate roanner, I should end my life. The 
teara would mn pleo6fully down my face when I made thöse 
reflections; and sometimQjUJ«Kmld^xpo&üiilLLGJKiXJa-iayfl«itwhy ^ 



theifi.A© ^bsiTitlt 
entirely dcprwj 



I'rovidence shouldThifä completely ruin its creatures, and ren.der, 

' wrtntelr miserable : so abandöned Trithont hclp, so 

TT^nl, th^^ U-cöttULhardly be rational lo be thanW 

Bttt^onXethiiig always retumed swift upon me to check theae 
thonghta, and to reprove me ; and particularly, one day Walking 
with my gun in my band, by the isea-side, 1 was very pensive 
upon the subject of my prtisent condition, when rcason, as it 
were, expostulated with me the other way, tbus : Well, you are 
in a desolate condition it is true ; but, pray remembcr» where 
are tbe rest of you? Did not you come eleven of you into the 
boftt ? Where are the ten ? Wliy w cre not they savcd, and you 
lost? Why were you singled out ? Is it better to be here er 
there? And then I pointed to the sea. All evil sjtie Jo be con* 
8i4Qtpd^^th t jie good that is-iii them. and wlth wbat worae 

""^f jiTcd to me again» bow wrell I was furni.shed for 

my SU- i _ .» and what woakl ha\e been my case if it had not 
bappcned (which was a hundred thousand to one) that the ship 
lloated from the place where she first Struck, and was driven so 
ncar to the ahore, that 1 had time to get all these thioga out of 
her; what would have been my case, if 1 had been to have lived 
ta the condition in which I at ürst came on shore, without 



M 



48 ADVENTURES OF 

necessaries of life, or necessaries to supply and procure them? 
Particularly, said I aloud (though to myself), i^hat should I 
have done without a gun, without ammunitou, without any tools 
to make anything, or to work with, without clothes, bedding, 
a tent, or any manner of covering ? and that now I had all these 
to a sufficient quantity, and was in a fair way to provide myself 
in such a manner as to live without my gun, when my ammu« 
nition was spent : so that I had a tolerable yiew of subsisting, 
without any want, as long as I lived; for I considered, from the 
beginningi how I would provide for the accidents that might 
haj>pen, and for the time that was to come, not only after my 
ammunition should be spent, but even after my health or 
strength should decay. 

I confess, I had not entertamed any notion of my ammunition 
being destroyed at one blast, I mean my powder being blown 
up by lightning ; and this made the thoughts of it so surprising 
to me, when it lightened and thundered, as I observed just now. 

And now being to enter into a melancholy relation of a scene 
of silent life, such, perhaps, as was never heard of in the world 
before, I shall take it from its beginning, and continue it in its 
Order. It was, by my account, the 30th of September, when, in 
the manner as above said, I first set foot upon this jiorrid Island: 
when the sun being to us in its autumnal equinoxTVflS älmoSt 
just over my head : for I reckoned myself, by Observation, to be 
in the latitude of nine degrees twenty-two minutes north of the 
Line. 




KOBDfSOK CUUSOÄ. 



4f 



A:i 



f^teffi' 



SECTION VII. 

itOBWSON*S MODE OF RECKOKINO TIME.— DIFFICÜLTIES ARISING 
FROM WANT OF TOOLS, — HE ABJUNGES HIÖ HiLBITATIOJf, 

After I Lad been tliere abotit ten or twelve days, it carae into 
my thougbts tbat 1 sbünld lose my reckoning of time fo? want 
öf books, and pen and ink, and sbould even tbrget tbe sabbatb 
days firom tbe working days : but, to prevent tbw?, I cut it wiib 
my knife opon a large poat, in capital lett<?rs ; and making it 
into a fireat cross^ 1 sei it up on tbe sliore where I first landi^d, 
viz.i ** I came on sbore here on the 30tli of Sepiemberj 1659." 
UpoD the sides of tliis square post I cut every day a notcb with 
my knife, and every seventb notcb was aa long agsin as tbe rest^ 
lUid every first day of the niontb as long again as tliat long oue : 
and thus 1 kept 'my calendar, ar wcekly, montbly, and yeariy 
reckoning of time. 

But it bappened, tliat among the many tbings wbicli I brougbt 
ont of the abip,,in tbe several vovages wbicb, as above men- 
tioned, I made to it, 1 got several tJiings of Icss vahic, but not 
at all less nseful to me, wbicb I found, some time after, in mm- 
magiog the cbcsts : as^ in particular, pens, ink, and papcr ; 
several parcels in tbe captain's, mate's, giiimer'e, and carpenter'a 
Iceeping ; tbree or four compasses, some matbematical mstni- 
ments, di&ls, perspectives, cbarts, and books of navigation ; all 



50 ADYENTURES OF 

of which J buddled together, wbether I migbt want tbem or no : 
also I found three very good Bibles, which came to me in my 
cargo from England, and which I had packed up^among my 
things ; some Portuguese books also, and, among them, two or 
three popish prayer-books, and several other books, all which I 
carefully secured. And I must not forget, that we had in the 
ship a aog, and two cats, of whose eminent* bis tory I may have 
occasion to say something, in its place : for I carried both the 
cats with me; and as for the dog, he jumped out of the. ship 
himself, and swam on shore to me the day after I went on shore 
with my first cargo, and was a trusty servant to me for many 
years : I wanted nothing that he could fetch me; nor any Com- 
pany that he could make up to me, I only wanted to have him 
talk to me, but that would not do. As I observed before, I 
found pens, ink, and papec, and I husbaaded them to the 
utmost; and I shall mom ätat while my ink lasted, I kept 
things very exact, but after that was gone, I could not ; for I 
could not make any ink, by any means that I could devise. 

And this put me in mind that I wanted many things, notwith- 
standing all that I had amassed together ; and of these, this of 
ink was one ; as also a spade, pickaxe, and shovel, to dig or 
remove the earth ; needles, pins, and thread ; as for linen, I soon 
leamed to want that without much diflSculty. 

This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily : and 
it was near a whole year before I had entirely finished my little 
pale, or surrounded my habitation. The piles or stakes, which 
were as heavy as I could well lift, were a long time in cutting 
and preparing in the woods, and raore by far, in bringing home ; 
so that I spent sometimes two days in cutting and bringmg 
home one of those posts, and a third day in driving it into the 
ground ; for which purpose, I got a heavy piece of wood at 
ärst, but at last bethought myself of one of the iron crows ; 
which, however, though I found it answer, made driving these 
posts or piles very laborious and tedious work. But what need 
I have been concerned at the tediousness of anything I had to 
do, seeing I had time enough to do it in ? nor had I any other 
employment, if that had been over, at least that I could foresee, 
except the ranging the Island to seek for food; which I did, more 
or less, every day 

I now began to consider seriously my condition, and the cir- 

g>»^ ( cumstance I was reduced to ; and I drew up the State of my 

^ ; afl&iirs in writing, not so much to leave them to any that were 

. .V ; to come after me (for I was like to have but few heirs), as to 

;)^\ , deliver my thoughts from daily poring upon them, and afflicting 
- v' my mind : and as my reason began now to master my despon- 

^ dency, I began to comfort myself as well as I could, and to set 

the good against the evil, that I might have something to dis- 
tinguish my case from worse ; and I stated very impartially, like 



% 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 51 

debtor and creditor, the comforts I enjoyed against tbe miseriea 
rSuSered, thüB^ 

XVIL. OOOS. A 

I am cast upon a horrible, desolate But I am alive ; and not drowned, as ^ 
Island, void of all hope of recovery. all my sbip's Company vrere. 

I am singled out and separated, as it But I am singled out too from all the 
weie, from all the world, to be miserable, ship's crew, tobe spared from death; and 

He that miraculously sayed me from 
death, can deliver me from this conditiou. 

I am divided ft-om mankind, a soll- But I am not 8tarved,and perishingin 
taiie; onebanished from human society. a harren place, affording no sustenance. 

I have no clothes to cover me. But I am in a hot dlimate, yrhere, if I 

had clothes, I could hardly wear them. 

I am withoüt any defence, or means to But I am cast on an Island where I see 
resist any violence of man or beast. no wild beast to hurt me, as I saw on the 

coast of Africa : and ythat if I had been 
shipwrecked there t 

I have no soul to speak to, or relieve But God wonderfully sent the ship in 
me. near enough to the shore, that I have got 

out so raany necessary things, as vriU . 
either supply my wants, or enable me to "* 
supply myself, even as long as I live. 

Upon the whole, liere was an undoubted testimony, tbat there 
was scarce any condition in the world so miserablei but there 
was something negative, or something positive, to be thankful 
for in it : and let this stand as a direction, f rom th e experience 
of t he most mis erable of all conditions in this world^tbatwe may 
ahV^sfind^lfsomethiftg to comfort ourselves from, and to 
set,'m theliescriptipn oif gaod and evil on the credit side of the 
acconUfl 

4feving now brought my mind a little to relish my condition, 
and given over looking out to sea, to see if I could spy a ship ; I 
say, given over these things, I began to apply myself to accom- 
modate my way of living, and to make things as easy to me as 
I could. 

I have alreadv described my habitation, which was a tent 
under the side of a rock, surrounded with a strong pale of posts 
and cables ; but I might now rather call it a wall, for I raised a 
kind of wall against it of turfs, about two feet thick on the out- 
side : and after some time (I think it was a year and a half) I 
raised rafters from it, leaning to the rock, and thatched or 
covered it with boughs of trees, and such things as I could get, 
to keep out the rain ; which I found, at some times of the year, 
very violent 

I have already observed how I brought all my goods into this 
pale, and into the cave which I had made behind me. But I 
must observe, too, that at first this was a confused heap of goods, 
which, as they lay in no order, so they took up all my place; I 
had no room to tum myself: so I set myself to enlarge my cave, 



52 ADVENTÜRES OP 

and work f^trther into the eartb ; for it was a loose sandv rock, 
which yielded easily to the labour I bestowed on it : and when 
I found 1 was pretly safe as to the beasts of prey, I worked aide- 
ways, to the right hand, into the rock, and then toming to tHe 
right again, worked quite out, and made me a door to come out iqi 
the outside of my pale Or fortification. 

. This gave me not only egress and regress; «s it werey a back 
way to my tent and to my storehoase, but gave me room to 
stow my goods. • . , . . • * 

And now I began to apply myself to make such n^^^sä^ 
things as I fqund I most i^anted, particularly a chair anid a 
table; för without these I was not able to enjoy the few comforts 
I had in the world; I could not write, or eat, or do several things 
with so much pleasure, without a table: so I wenttö work. 
And here I must needs observe, that as reason is the sufa^tancfe 
and origmal of the mathematics, so by statmg and squarinjg 
everything by reason, and by making tne .most rational judg- 
ment of thuigs, every man may be, in time, master of eviery 
mechanic art. I had never handled a tool in my life ; and yet, 
in time, by labour, application, and contrivance I found atJkst, 
that I wanted nothing but I could have mad^, especially if I hßd 
had tools. However, I made abundance of things, even without 
tools ; and some with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, 
which perhaps were never made that way befose, and that with 
infinite labour. For example, if I wanted a boärd, I had no 
other way but to cut down a tree, set it on an edge before me, 
and hew it flat on either side with my axe, tili I had brought it 
to be as thin as a plank, and then dub it smooth with my adze. 
It is true, by this method, I could make but one board of a whole 
tree ; but this I had no remedy for but patience, any more than 
I had for a prodigious deal of time and labour which it took me 
up to make a plank or board : but my time or labour was little 
worth, and so it was as well employed one way as another. 

However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed above, 
in the first place ; and this I did out of the short pieces of boards 
that I brought on my raft from the ship. But when I wrou^ht 
out some boards, as above, I made large shelves, of the breadth 
of a foot and a half, one over another, all along one side of my 
cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron work on ; and, in a wbro, 
to separate every thing at large in their places, that I might 
easily come at them. I knocked pieces into the wall of the rock, 
to hang my guns, and all things that would hang up : so that 
had my cave been seen, it looked like a general magazine of all 
necessary things ; and I had every thing so ready at my hand, 
that it was a great pleasure to me to see all my goods in such 
Order, and especially to find my stock ofaU necessaries so great. 

And now it was that I began to keep a joumal of every day's 
employment ; for, indeed, at jirst, I was in too much hurry, and 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

not only as to labour, but in mucli discomposiire of inind; and 
mj Journal would, too, have been fiiU of manj|-4ttll things: for 
cxample, I miist have said thiis — " .SYpt. 3Qtli. 7 Aj^ er I had got\ } 
to sUore, aud had escaped drovvnin^, instead oTbemg thon&il/ 
to Gud for my deliveranct?, baving first voniit£3jjjijt^^tlie greail^ 
qiiantity of salt water which was gotten into my stomach, antU \/^J 
^^covering raysell* a little, 1 ran about tbe sliore, wrüigiag niy\ Jl 
nanda, and beating my head and face^xclaimiiig at my misery,) ^ \ 
and cryins: out I was iindonej undoneTVtill, tired and faint, I waa( 
fopced to lie down on the j^romid to l^ose j but durst not sleep? 
for fear of belog devoured.*' 

Some days after this, and after I bad been on board tbe sbip 
and got all that I could out of lier, I could not forbear getting 
up to the top of a little mountain, and löoking out to sea, in 
hopcs of seeing a sbip : tben fancy that, at a vast distanee, I 
spied a sail, please m,*^setf witli the bopes of it, and, after look- 
ing fiteadily, tili I was almost blind, lose it quite, and sit down 
and wecp like a cbild, and thus increase my misery by my fully. 

Bot, baving gotten over these tbings in some mcasufGpMid 
baviug acttled my bousebold st uff and habitation, made me a 
table and a cbair, and all as liantisonie about me as I could, I 
bcgan to keep my Journal: of wlüeb I sball here give you the 
copy (thüugb in it will be told all these particulars over again) 
as long as it laated *, for» baving no moro ink, I waa Ibrced to 
leave it o£ 




54 . ADVENTÜRES OF 




SECTION VIII. 

ROBINSON'S JOURNAL. — ^DETAILS OP HIS DOMESTIC ECONOMJ AND 
CONTRIVANCES.— SHOCK OF AN EARTHQUAKE. 

THE JOURNAL. 

September 30th, 1659. I, poor miserable Robinson Crusoe, 
being shipwrecked, during a dreadful storm, in tbe o&ng, came 
on shore on this dismal unfortunate Island, which I called the 
Isjd^i^OF Despair ; all the rest of the ship's Company being 
dfowÄe^paBrfhTfiySelf almost dead. 

All the rest of that day I spent in aiBicting myself at the 
dismal circumstances I was brought to, viz. I had neilher food, 
house, clothes, weapon, nor place to fly to : and, in despair of 
any relief, saw nothing but death before me ; that I should either 
be devoured by wild beasts, murdered by savages, or starved to 
death for want of food. At the approach of night I slept in a 
tree, for fear of wild creatures ; but slept soundly, though it 
rained all night. 

OcTOBER 1. In the moming I saw, to my great snrprise, the 
ship had floated with the high tide, and was driven on shore 
again much nearer the Island ; which, as it was some comfort 
on one band (for seeing her sit upright, and not broken in pieces, 
I hoped, if the wind abated, I might get on board, and get some 
food and necessaries out of her for my relisef,) so, on the other 
hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my comrades, who, I 
imagined, if we had all staid on board, might have saved the 
ship, or, at least, that they would not have been all drowned, 
as they were : and that, had the men been saved, we might per- 
haps have built us a boat, out of the riüns of the ship, to have 
carried us to some other part of the world. I spent ^reat part 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. W 

of tbis day in perplexing myself on these things ; but, at length, 
seeing tbe ship almost dry, I went upon ihe sand a» near as I 
could, and then swam on board. Tbis day also it continued 
raining, thougb witb no wind at all. 

From tbe Ist of October to tbe 24tb. All tbese days entirely 
spent in many several voyages to get all I could out of tbe sbip; 
wbich I brougbt.on sbor6, evef y tide of flood, upon rafts. Much 
rain also' in tbese days, tbougb witb some intervals of feir 
weatber : but, it seems, tbis was tbe rainy season. 

OcT. 20. I overset my raft, and all tbe goods I bad got upon 
it*; but being in sboal water, and tbe tbings being cbiefly beavy 
I recovered many of tbem wben tbe tide was out. 

OcT. 25. It rained all nigbt and all day, witb some gusts Oi 
wind; during wbicb time tbe sbip broke in pieces (tbe wind 
blowing a little barder tban before) and was no more to be seeii, 
except tbe wreck of ber, and tbat only at low water. I spent 
tlüs day in covering and securing tbe goods wbicb I bad saved, 
tbat tbe rain migbt not spoil tbem. 

OcT. 26. I walked about tbe sbore almost all day, to find out 
a place to fix my babitation ; greatly concemed to secure myself 
from any attack in tbe night, eitber from wild beasts or men. 
Towards nigbt I fixed upon a proper place, under a rock, and 
marked out a semicircle for mv encampment ; wbicb 1 resolved 
to strengtben witb a work, waU, or fortification, made of doub}e 
piles lined witbin witb cables, and witbout witb turf. 

From tbe 26tb to tbe 30tb, I worked very bard in carrying aU 
my goods to my new babitation, tbougb some part of tbe time 
it rained exceedingly bard. 

Tbe 3 Ist, in tbe morning, I went out into tbe island witb my 
gun, to see for some food, and discover tbe country ; wben I 
killed a sbe-goat, and ber kid foUowed me bome, wbicb I after- 
wards killed also, because it would not feed. 

November 1. I set up my tent under a rock, and lay tbere 
for tbe first nigbt ; making it as large as I could, witb stakes 
driven in to swing my bamraock upon. 

Nov. 2. I set up all my chests and boards, and tbe pieces of 
timber wbicb made my rafts ; and witb tbem formed a fence 
round me, a little witbin tbe place I bad marked out for my 
fortification. 

Nov. 3. I went out witb my gun, and killed two fowls libe 
ducks, wbicb were very good food. In tbe afternoon I went to 
work to make me a table. 

Nov. 4. Tbis morning I began to order my times of work, of 
going out witb my gun, time of sleep, and time of diversion; 
viz. every morning I walked out witb my gun for two or tbree 
bours, if it did not rain ; tben eraployed myself to work tili about 
eleven o'clock ; tben ate wbat I bad to live on ; and jfrom twelve 
to two I lay down to sleep, tbe weatber being excessive bot ; and 



56 . ADVENTDRES OP 

then, in the evening, to work again. The working part of this 
day and the next was wholly employed in making my table, for 
I was yet but a very sorry workman : though time and neces- 
sity made me a complete natural mechanic soon after, as I 
beneve ihey would any one eise. * * 

Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my gun and dog, and 
killed a wild cat ; her skin pretty soft, but her flesh good for 
nothing : of every creature that I killed I took off the skins, and 
preserved them. Coming back by the seashore, I saw many 
sorts of seafowl which I did not understand : but was surprised, 
and almost frightened, with two or three seals ; which while I 
•was gazing at them (not well knowing what they were) got into 
the sea, and escaped me for that time. 

Nov. 6. After my moming walk, I went to work with my 
table again, and finished it, though not to my liking : nor was 
it long before I leamed to mend it. 

Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled fair weather. The 7th, 
8th, 9th, lOth, and part of the 12th (for the llth was Sunday, 
according to my reckoninff), I took wholly up to make me a 
chair, and with much ado brought it to a tolerable shape, but 
never to please me ; and, even in the making, I pulled it in pieces 
several times. 

Note. I soon neglected my keeping Sundays ; for, omitting 
my mark for them on my post, I forgot which was which. 

Nov. 13. This day it rained; which rejfreshed me exceedingly, 
and cooled the earth: but it was accompanied with terrible 
thunder and lightning, which frightened me dreadfiilly, for fear 
of my powder. As soon as it was over, I resolved to separate 
my stock of powder into as many little parcels as possible, that 
it might not be in danger. 

Nov. 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent in making little 
Square chests or boxes, which might hold about a pound, or 
two pounds at most, of powder : and so, putting the powder in, 
I stowed it in places as secure and as remote from one another 
as possible. On one of these three days I killed a large bird that 
was good to eat ; but I knew not what to call it. 

Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent, into the 
rock, to make room for my farther convenience. 

Note. Three things I wanted exceedingly for this work, viz. 
a pickaxe, a shovel, and a wheelbarrow, or basket ; so I desisted 
from my work, and began to consider how to supply these wants, 
and make me some tools. As for a pickaxe, I made use of the 
iron crows, which were proper enough, though heavy : but the 
next thing was a shovel or spade ; this was so absolutely neces- 
sary, that, indeed, I could do nothing effectually without it ;• but 
what kind of one to make I knew not. 

Nov. 18. The next day, in searching the woods, I found a 
tree of that wood, or like it, which, in the Brazils, they call the 



ROBINSON CRÜBOE. 



57 



J^l 



IroiJ tfee, frcjfniita exceeding hardncss : of this, witli g:rcÄt labou?, 
and almost spoiling my axe, 1 cut a picce; and brought it home, 
tooj with difflculty enough, for it was exceediiig heavy. The 
excessive liardnesa of the woad» and my liaving no other way» 
made me a long while upon tMs maehine : Ibr I worked it effeo- 
tually» by little and Utile, intü the form of a shovel or spade ; 
the handle exactly sbaped likc ours in England, only that the 
hroad part having no iron shod upon it at bottom, it would not 
last me so long : however, it served well enougli for tlie uses 
which I had occasion to put it to ; but never was a shoveli I 
bclieve, raade after that faühioii, or so long ia maldng, 

I was still deßcient ; for 1 Ttanted a basket, or a wheelbarrow. 
A basket I coidd not make by any means, having no such thinga 
as tvrigs that would bend to make wicker wäre ; at least, none 
yet found out : and as to the wheelbarrow, I fancied 1 could 
make all but the wheel, but that I had no notion of ; neither did 
I know how to go about it r hcsideflj I had no possihle way to i -^v 
make iron gudgeona for the spindle or axis of the wheel to run^ ' y^ 
in ; so I gave it over : and, for CÄrrying away the earth which 
I dug out of the cave, I made nie a thing like a hod, which the 
labourers carry raortar in for the bricklayers. lliis was not so 
difficult to me as the making the shovel : and yet this and the 
sbovelf and the attempt which I made in vain to make a wheel- 
barrow, took me up nu less tlian tbiir daya ; I mean, always 
^cxcepting my morning walk with my gun, which 1 seldom 
fomitted, and very seldom failed also bringing home something 
ßt to eat, 

Nov. 23. My other work having now stood still» because of 
pBtty making these tooLs, when they were finiähed I went onj and 
" nrorking every dav, aa my atren^th and linie allowed, I spent 
Itighteen days eotirely in widening and deepening my cave, that 
fit might hold my good^ comniodiously, 

Note* Duriag all this tirae, I worked to make this room or 
ftve, SjpAcious enough to accomraodate me as a warehonse, or 
Imogjixme, a kitehen, a dioing-room, and a cellar. Aa for a lodg- 
"o(c I kept to the tent ; except that sometimes, in the wet season 
lof the year, it rained so hard tbat I could not keep myself dry ; 
T^hich caused me afterwards to Cover all my phice within my 
\ pale v\ith long poles, and in the form of rafters, leaning agaiu«t 
the rock, and load them with flags and large leavea of trees, like 
a thar^'h. 

DüCKJiBER 10. I be^^an now to think my cave or vault 
I ^nished ; when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too large) 
a grcat quautity of earth feil down from the top and one aide ; y* 
«o miich* that, m short, it frightened me, and not withoutreaaon < V 
too; for if 1 had been undcr it, I ahould never have wanted al 
, grave-digger. Upon this disaster, I had a great deal of work to' / 
[•flo ovcf ai;aiii, for I had the loose earth to carry out; and, which V* 



58 ADVENTÜRES OP 

was o^ more importance, I had the ceüing to prop up, so that I 
might be sure no more would come down. 

Dec. 11. This day I went to work with it accordingly ; and 
got two shores or posts pitched upright to the top, with two 

Sieces of board across over each post : this I finished the next 
ay ; and setting more posts up with boards, in about a week 
more I had the roof secured ; and the posts, Standing in rows, 
served me for partitions to part off my house. 

Dec. 17. From this day to the 30th, I placed shelves, and 
knocked up nails on the posts, to hang everything up that could 
be hung up : and now I began to be in some order within doors. 

Dec. 20. I carried everything into the cave, and began to 
fumish my house, and set up some pieces of boards, like a 
dresser, to order my victuals upon ; but boards began to be very 
scarce with me : also I made me another table. 

Dec. 24. Much rain all night and all day : no stirring out. 

Dec. 25. Rain all day. 

Dec. 26. No rain ; and the earth much cooler than before, 
and pleasanter. 

Dec. 27. Killed a young goat ; and lamed another, so that 
I catched it, and led it home in a string : when I had it home, 
I bound and splintered up its leg, which was broke. 

N. B. I took such care of it that it lived ; and the leg grew 
well, and as strong as ever : but, by nursing it so long, it grew 
tame, and fed upon the little green at my doo'r, and would not 
go away. This was the first time that I entertained a thought 
of breeding up some tame creatures, that I might have food when 
my powder and shot was all spent. 

Dec. 28, 29, 30, 31. Great heats, and no breeze; so that there 
was no stirring abroad, except in the evening, for food ; this 
time I spent in putting all my things in order within doors. 

Janüary 1. Very hot still; but I went abroad early and late 
with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the day. This even- 
ing, going farther into the Valleys which lay towards the centre 
of the island, I found there wasplenty of goats, though exceed- 
ing shy, and hard to come at; however, I resolved to try if I 
could not bring my dog to hunt them down. Accordingly, the 
next day, I went out with my dog, and set him upon the goats : 
but I was mistaken, for they all foced about upon the dog : and 
he knew bis danger too well, for he would not come near them. 

Jan. 3. I began my fence or wall ; which, being still jealous 
of my being attacked by somebody, I resolved to make very 
thick and strong. 

N. B. This wall being described before, I purposely omit 
what was said in the Journal ; it is suflficient to observe, that I 
was no less time than from the 3rd of January to the 14th of 
April, workin^, finishing, and perfecting this wall; though it 
was no more than about twenty-five yards in length, bemg a 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 59 

^alf drcle, from one place in the rock to another place, about 

twelve yards from it, the door of the cave being in the centre, 2 

behind it ^ 

All this time I worked very hard ; the rains hindeiing me Xr ^ 
many days, nay, sometimes weeks together : but I tbought l^i^ ^^ 
should never be perfectly secure tili tMs wall was finished ; and /> ^ 
it is scarce credible what inexpressible labour everything was ^ cf* 
done with, especially the bringing piles out of the woods, and O V^ 
driving them into the eround; for I made them much bigger "^ ^ i? 
than I needed to have done. ^^ 

When this wall was finished, and the outside double fenced, ^^ 
with a torf wall raised up close to it, I persuaded myself that if 
any people were to come on shore there they would not perceive 
anytning like a habitation : and it was very well I did so, as 
nm" be observed hereafter, upon a very remarkable occasion, 

Döring this time, I made my rounds in the woods for game 
every day, when the rain permitted me, and made freauent dis- 
coveries, in these walks, of something or other to my advantage; 
particularly, I found a kind of wild pigeons, who build, not as 
wood-pigeons, in a tree, but rather as house-pigeons, in the 
holes of the rocks : and, taking some young ones, I endeavouied 
to breed them up tame, and md so ; but when they grew older, 
they flew all away ; which, perhaps, was, at first, for want of 
feeding them, for I had nothmg to give them ; however, I fire- 
qnenüy found their nests, and ^ot their young ones, which were 
yery good meat. And now, in the managing my household 
affiaiirs, I found myself wanting in many things, which I thought 
at first it was impossible for me to make ; as indeed, as to some 
of them, it was : for instance, I could never make a cask to be 
hooped. I had a small runlet or two, as I observed before ; but 
I could never arrive at the capacity of making one by them, 
though I spent many weeks about it : I could neither put in the 
heads, nor join the staves so true to one another as to make 
them hold water ; so I gave that also over. In the next plac^, 
I was at a great loss for candle ; so that as soon as it was dark, 
which was generally by seven o'clock, I was oblised to go to 
bed. I remember the lump of bees-wax with which I made 
candles in my African adventure ; but I had none of that now : 
the only remedy I had was, that when I had killed a goat, I 
saved the tallow ; and with a little dish made of clay, which 
I baked in the sun, to which I added a wick of some oakum, 
I made me a lamp ; and this gave me light, though not a clear 
steady light like a candle. In the middle of all my labours it t 
happened, that in rummaging my things, I found a little bag ; 
which, as I hmted before, had been filled with com, for the 
feeding of poultry ; not for this voyage, but before, as I sup- 
pose, when the ship came from Lisbon. What little remainder 
of com had been in the bag was all devoured by the rats, and 

F 



CO ADVENTÜRES OP 

I saw notbing in tbe bag but busks and dust : and being willing 
to bave tbe bag for some other use (I tbink it was to put pow- 
der in, wben I divided it for fear of tbe ligbtning, or some sucb 
use), I sbook tbe busks of com out of it, on one side of my 
fortification, under tbe rock. 

It was a little before tbe great rain just now mentioned, tbat 
I tbrew tbis stuif away ; taking no notice of anytbing, and not 
so mucb as remembering tbat I bad tbrown anytbing tbere : 
wben, about a montb after) I saw some few stalks of sometbing 
green, sbooting out of tbe ground, wbicb I fancied migbt be 
some plant I bad not seen ; but I was surprised, and perfectly 
astonisbed, wben, after a little longer time, I saw about ten or 
twelve ears come out, wbicb were peifect green barley, of tbe 
same kind as' our European, nay, as our Englisb barley. 

It is impossible to express tb&^stonisbment and conMsion of 
my tbougbts on tbis occasion. \I bad bitberto acted upoiuxu^ 
relig r i pTiJji ,fmin^]fttif^T] at all : inde^, I bad very few notions of 
iteligioffm my bead, nor bad entertained any sense of any tbings 
tbat bad befallen me, otberwise tban as cbance, or, as we ligbtly 
say, wbat pleases God; witbout so mucb as inquiring into tbe 
end of Providence in tbese tbings, or bis order in governing 
events in tbe world. jBut after I saw barley grow tbere, in a 
climate wbicb I knew was not propör for com, and especially 
as I knew not bow it came tbere, it startled me strangely ; and 
I began to suggest, tbat God bad miraculously caused tbis grain 
to grow witbout any belp of seed sown, and tbat it was so 
directed purely for my sustenance, on tbat wild miserable place. 

Tbis toucbed my beart a little, and brougbt tears out of my 
eves ; and I began to bless myself tbat sucb a prodigy of nature 
snould bappen upon my account : and tbis was tbe more stränge 
to me, because I saw near it still, all along by tbe side of tbe 
rock, some otber straggling stalks, wbicb proved to be stalks of 
rice, and wbicb I knew, because I bad seen it grow in Africa, 
wben I was asbore tbere. 

I not only tbougbt tbese tbe pure productions of Providence 
for my support, but, not doubting tbat tbere was more in tbe 
place, I went over all tbat part of tbe island wbere I bad been 
before, searcbing in every comer, and under every rock, for 
•more of it ; but I could not find any. At last it occurred to my 
tbougbts, tbat I bad sbook out a bag of cbicken's-meat in tbat 
place, and tben tbe wonder began to cease ; and I must confess, 
my religious tbankfulness to God's providence began to abate 
too, upon tbe jü^covering tbat all tbis was notbing but wbat 
was common ;nhougb I ougbt to bave been as tbankfiü for so 
Strange and unfbreseen a providence, as if it bad been miracu- 
lous : for it was really tbe work of Providence, as to me, tbat 
sbould Order or appoint tbat ten or twelve grains of com should 
remain unspoiled, wben tbe rats bad destroyed all tbe rest, as 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 61 

if it had been dropped from lieaven; as also» that I should throw 
it out in that particular place, where, it being in the shade of a 
high rock, it sprang up immediately ; whereas, if I had thrown 
it anvwhere eise, at that time, it would have been bumed up 
and destroyed. \ 

I careftdly saved the ears of this com, you may be sure, m (^^ 
their season, which was about the end of June ; and, lajdng up '\ *? ^ 
every com, I resolved to sow them all again ; hoping, in time, / ^ 
to have sopae quantity sufficient to supply me with bread. But^t^ 
it was not tiljl the fourth yearthat I could allow myself the least 
grain of tl^s com to leat, and even then but sparingly, as I shall 
show afterwards in its order ; for I lost all that 1 sowed the first 
season, by not observing the proper time; as I sowed just 
before the dry season, so that it never came up at all, at least 
not as it would have done ; of which in its place. 

Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or thirty 
stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same care; and whose 
nse was of the same kmd, or to the same purpose, viz., to make 
me bread, or rather food ; for I found ways to cook it up without 
baking, though I did that also after some time. — But to retum 
to my Journal. 

I worked excessively hard these three or four months, to get 
my wall done ; and the 14th of April I closed it up ; contriving 
to get into it, not by a door, but over the wall, by a ladder, that 
there might be no sign on the outside of my habitation. 

April 16. I finished the ladder; so I went up with the ladder 
to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and let it down in the 
inside : this was a complete enclosure to me ; ibr within I had 
room enough, and nothing could come at me from without, 
unless it could first mount my waU. 

The very next day after this wall was finished, I had almost 
all my labour overthrown at once, and myself killed ; the case 
was thus : — As I was busy in the inside of it, behind my tent, 
just at the entrance into my cave, I was terribly frightenedwith 
a most dreadful surprising thing indeed ; for, all on a sudden, I 
found the earth come crumbling down from the roof of my cave, 
and from the edge of the hill over my head, and two of the posts 
I had set up in the cave cracked in a frightful manner. I was 
heartily scared ; but thought nothing of what really was the 
cause, only thinking that the top of my cave was fallmg in, as V^ 
some of it had done before : and for fear I should be buried in ^^ 
it, I ran forward to my ladder, and not thinking myself safe there .Qy 
neither, I got over my wall for fear of the pieces of the hill which 1 
I expected might roll down upon me. I had no sooner stepped 1 
down upon the firm ground, than I plainly saw it was a terrible 
earthquake : for the ground I stood on shook three times at 
about eight minutes' distance, with three such shocks as would 
have overtumöd the strengest building that could be supposed 

f2 



Öi8 ADVENTÜRES OF 

to have stood on the earth ; and a great piece of the top of a 
rock, "which stood about half a mile from me, next the sea, feil 
down with such a terrible noise as I never heard in all my life. 
I perceived also that the very sea was put into a violent motion 
by it; and I believe the shocks were stronger under the water 
than on the Island. 

I was so much amazed with the thing itself (having never feit 
the like, nor discoursed with any one that had) that I was like 
one dead or stupified ; and the motion of the earth made my 
stomach sick, like one that was tossed at sea : but the noise of 
the falling of the rock awaked me, as it were; and rousing me 
from the stupified condition I was in, filled me with horror, and 
I thought of nothing but the hill falling upon my tent and my 
household goods, and burying all at once ; this sunk my very 
80ul within me a second time. 

After the third shock was over, and I feit no more for some 
time, I began to take courage; yet I had not heart enough to go 
over my wall again, for fear of being buried alive; but sat stiU 
upon the ground gveatly cast down, and disconsolate, not know- 
ing what to do. AU this while I had not the least serious reli- 
gious thought ; nothing but the common Lord, have mercy upon 
me ! and when it was over that went away too. 

While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow doudy, as 
if it would rain; and soon after the wind rose by little and little, 
80 that in less than half an hour it blew a most dreadful hurri* 
cane : the sea was, all on a sudden, covered with foam and froth; 
the shore was covered with a breach of the water; the trees were 
tom up by the roots ; and a terrible storm it was. This held 
about three hours, and then began to abate ; and in two hours 
more it was quite calm, and began to rain very hard. All this 
while I sat upon the ground, very much terrified and dejected ; 
when, on a sudden, it came into my thoughts that these winds 
and rain being the consequence of the earthquake, the earthquake 
itself was spent and over, and I might ventiure into my cave 
again. With this thought my spirits began to revive ; and the 
rain also helping to persuade me, I went in, and sat down in my 
tent ; but the rain was so violent, that my tent was ready to be 
beaten down with it ; and I was forced to get into my cave, 
though very much afraid and uneasy, for fear it should fall on 
mv head. This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz., to cut 
a hole through my new ^rtification, like a sink, to let the water 
go out, which would eise have drowned my cave. After I had 
been in my cave for some time, and found no more shocks of the 
earthquake follow, I began to be more composed. And now, to 
Support my spirits, which indeed wanted it very much, I went to 
my little störe, and took a small cup of rum ; which, however, 
I did then, and always, very sparingly, knowin^ I could have no 
more when that was gone. It continued rainmg all that night 



IL0B1N80N CRUSOE* 



621 



and ^eat part of the next day, so that I coiüd not stir abroad : 
but my mind being more coraposed, I began to think of wbat I 
had best do ; concludin^, that if the island was subject to tbese 
earthqxiakes, there woidd be no livin^ for nie in a cave, but I 
must consider of biiilding me some little hut in an open place, 
wHich I might Surround wtb a wall^ as I had done here, and so 
make myseLf secure from \vild beasts or men; for il' I staid wbere 
I v:&9, I should certainly, one time or other, be buried alive. 

Witb these thoughts, ! resolvcd to remove ray tent from the 
place where it now stood, beints just uuder tbe Imnging precipice 
of the hill| and wbich, if it sbould be sbaken again^ would cer- 
tainly fall upon my tent. I spent the two next days, being the 
19th and 20tb of April, in cotitriving where and hon to remove^ 
my habitation, Tbc f ear of being swpllowBd aU ve afTected rnef ■^' 
aot that j^ne V er slgp Fm^uie t ; and yet the apprehenBiou of lying 
abroad^withoul aiiy lence, was almost equal to it: but stilli whcn 
I looked about, and saw how every thing was put in order, bow 
pleasantly I was concealed^ and how safe from danger^ it made 
me very loatb to remove. In the mean tirae, it occurred to me 
that it would ret|uire a vast dcal of time for me to do tbis ; and 
that T must be contentcd to run the riak wbere I was, tili I had 
formed a convenient camp, and setured it so as to reraove to it, 
With this conclusion I composed myself for a time; and reHolved 
that I would go in work uitb all speed to build me a wall with 
piles and cables, &c.> in a circle as before, and aet up ray tent in 
it when it was finisbed ; but that I would venture to stav where 
1 was tili it was ready, and ßt to remove to. Thiswas tLe 2 Ist. 

April 22. Tbe next niorning I bcgan to consider of raeans to 
put this measure into execution ; but I was at a great losa about 
the tools. I bad three large axes, and abundauce of batcbets 
(for we carried tbe batcbets for trailic with the Indians) ; but 
with mucb chopping and cutting knotty hard wood, they were 
all lull of notehea, and duU : and tboiigh I had a grindstone, I 
could not turn it and grind my tools too. This caused me as 
much thougbt aa a statesman would have bestowed upon a grand 
poink of politicsi or a judge upon the life and dcath of a mau. At 
fength I contrived a wheel with a string, to tum itwith rayfoot, 
that I raight bave both my bands at bbcrty* 

Note. 1 had never seen any auch tbing in England, or at least 
not to take noticc bow it waa done, tboiigb since I bave obser\'^cd 
it is very common tbere : besidea that, my grindstone was very 
large and heavy. This machine cost me a fiill week's work to bring 
it to perfection. 

Aprix 28, 29. These two whole days I took up in grinding mv 
tooU, my raachine for tuming my grindstone performing very well. 

April 30. Having perceived that my bread bad been low a 
zreikt while, I now took a survey of it, and reduced myself to one 



KPeÄt 
rbiacuii 



,t-cake a day^ which made my heart very heavy. 



g4 AI»VENTÜR£S OP 




SECTION IX. 

ROBINSON OBTAINS MORE ARTICLES FROM THE WRECK.— HIS 
ILLNESS AND AFFLICTION. 

May 1. In the morning, looking towards the seaside, tbe tide 
beinglow, I saw somethinglie on the shore biggerthan ordinary, 
and it looked like a cask : \('lien I came to it, I found a small 
barrel, and two or three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which 
were driven on shore by the late hurricane ; and looking towards 
the wreck itself, I thought it seemed to lie higher out of the water 
than it used to do. I examined the barrel that was driven on 
shore, and soon found it was a barrel of gunpowder ; but it had 
taken water, and the powder was caked as hard as a stone : how- 
ever, I rolled it farther on the shore for the present, and went on 
upon the sands, as near as I could to the wreck of the ship, to 
look for more. 

When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely removed. 
The forecastle, which lay before buried in the sand, was heaved 
up at least six feet : and the stern (which was broke to pieces, 
and parted from the rest, by the force of the sea, soon after I had 
left rummaging of her) was tossed, as it were, up, and cast on 
one side : and the sand was thrown so high on that side next her 
Stern, that I could now walk quite up to her when the tide was 
out; whereas there was a great piece of water before, so that I 
could not come within a quarter of a mile of the wreck without 
swimming. I was surprised with this at first, but soon concluded 
it must be done by the earthquake ; and as by this violence the 
ship was more broken open than formerly, so many things came 
daily un shore, which the sea had loosened, and which the winds 
and water rolled by degrees to the land. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 65 

This wHolly diverted mj thoughts from the desigii of removing 
my habitation ; and I busied myself mightily, that day especially, 
in searching whether I could make any way into the ship : but 
I found noüiing was to be expected of that kind, for all the inside 
of the ship was choked up with sand. Howeyer, as I had learned 
not to despair of anything, I resolved to pull every thing to pieces 
that I coiüd of the ship, concluding that every thing I could get 
from her would be of some use or other to me. 

May 3. I began with ray saw, and cut a piece of a beam 
through, which I thought held some of the upper part or quar- 
ter-deck together ; and when I had cut it tiirough, I cleared 
away the sand as well as I could from the side which lay highest ; 
but the tide coming in, I was obliged to give over for that time. 

May 4. I went a fishing, but caught not one fish that I durst 
eat of, tili I was weary of my sport ; when, just going to leave 
off, I caught a yoimg dolphin. I had made me a long line of 
some rope-yam, but I had no hooks ; yet I frequently caught 
fish enough, as much as I cared to eat; all which I dried in the 
sun, and ate them dry. 

May 5. Worked on the wreck : cut another beam asunder, 
and brought three great fir planks off from the decks, which I 
tied together, and made swim on shore when the tide of flood 
eame on. 

May 6. Worked on the wreck : got several iron bolts out of 
her, and other pieces of iron work : worked verjr hard, and came 
home very much tired, and had thoughts of giving it over. 

May 7. Went to the wreck again, but not with an intent to 
work j but found the weight of the wreck had broke itself down, 
the beams being cut ; that several pieces of the ship seemed to 
lie loose ; and the inside of the hold lay so open that I could 
see into it ; but almost füll of water and sand. 

May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow to 
wrench up the deck, which lay now quite clear of the water and 
sand. I wrenched up two planks, and brought them on shore 
also with the tide. I left the iron crow in the wreck for next 
day. 

May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow made way 
into the body of the wreck, and feit several casks, and looseneä 
them vnth the crow, but could not break them up. I feit also a 
roll of English lead, and could stir it ; but it was too heavy to 
remove. 

May 10 to 14. Went every dav to the wreck, and got a great 
raany pieces of timber, and boards, or plank, and two or three 
hundred weight of iron. 

May 15. I carried two hatchets, to try if I could not cut a 
piece off the roll of lead, by placing the edge of one hatchet, and 
driving it vrith the other ; but as it lay about a foot and a half 
in the water, I could not make any blow to drive the hatchet. 



66 ADVENTURES OF 

Mat 16. It had blown hard in the night, and the wreclc 
appeared more broken by the force of the water ; but I stayed 
so long in the woods, to get pigeons for food, that the tide pre- 
vented my going to the wreck that day. 

May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore, at 
a great distance, two miles off me, but resolved to see what they 
were, and found it was a piece of the head, but too heavy iov " 
me to bring away. 

May 24. Every day, to this day, I worked on the wreck ; and 
with hard labour I looseped some things so much, with the crow, 
that the first blowing tide several casks floated out, and two of 
the seamen's chests: but the wind blowing from the shore, 
nothing came to land that day but pieces of timber, and a hogs- 
head, which had some Brazil pork in it ; but the salt water and 
the sand had spoiled it. I continued this work every day to the 
15th of June, except the time necessary to get food ; which I 
always appointed, during this part of my emplo^ent, to be 
when the tide was up, that I might be ready when it was ebbed 
out : and by this tune I had gotten timber, and plank, and iron 
work, enough to have built a good boat, if I had known how : 
and I also got, at several times, and in several pieces, near one 
hundred weight of the sheet-lead. 

June 16. Going down to the seaside, I found a lai^e tortoise, 
or turtle. This was the first I had seen ; which, it seems, was 
only my misfortune, not any defect of the place, or scarcity ; for 
had I happened to be on the other side of the Island, I might 
have had hundreds of them every day, as I found afterwards ; 
but perhaps had paid dear enough for them. 

June 17. I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in her three- 
score eggs : and her flesh was to me, at that time, the most 
savoury and pleasant that I ever tasted in my life : having had 
no flesh, but of goats and fowls, since I landed in this horrid place. 

June 18. Rained all that day, and I stayed within. I thought, 
at this time, the rain feit cold, and I was somewhat chilly ; which 
I knew was not usual in that latitude. 

June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather had been 
cold. 

June 20. No rest all night ; violent pains in my headj and 
feverish. 

June 21. Very ill ; frightened almost to death With the ap- 
prehensions of my sad condition, to be sick, andnohelp : prayed 
to God, for the first time since the storm off Hüll ; but scarce 
knew what I said, or why, my thoughts being all confused. 

June 22. A little better : but under dreadftd apprehensions 
of sickness. 

JUME 23. Very bad agam ; cold and shivering, and then a 
violent headache. 

June 24. Much better. 



BOBINSON CHUSOE. 



67 



JUN*E 25. An a^ie \ery violent : tbe fit beld me aeven Boura; 
Cöld fit, and bot, with faint sweata atter it. 

June 2ß. Better ; and having no victuals to eat, took my 
guu, but fotmd mysclf very weak : bowever, I killed a she-goat, 

L«nd with inucb difliculty got it home, aod broiled some of it, and 
itte. I would fain bave stewed it, and maÜG some brotb, but 

' hßd no pot. 

June 27. The a^e afain so violent ihat I lay a-bed all day, 
and neithcr ate nnr drank, I was ready to periiäh for thirst; 
but so weak» I liad not strength to stand iip, or to get myaeir 
imy water to drink. Prayed to God agaln, but was ligbt-headed: 

^ftnd when I waa not, I was so ignorant that l knew not what to 
Bay : only lay and cried, Lo rd/lftok upon nie ! Lord^ pity me ! 
Lord^havernerey upon me I I suppose 1 did nothing eTaeTor two 
oröiree HoursTmHtitrBt wearing off, I feil aslecp, and did not 

■ wake tili far in tbe night. When I aivoke, I fonnd rayself nmcb 

•refreiäbcd, bnt weak, and exceeding thirsty: bowever, as I had 
no water in my wbole habitation, I Avaa forced to lie tili raornin^, 
and w^ent to sleep again. In this second aleep I had this tcmble 
dream: I tbought that I was sittingon tbe gronnd, on the outside 
of my wall» wherel sat wben tbe storni blew after the earthqnake, 
and that I saw a man dcscend f Vom a great black cloud, in a 
bright flame of fire, and light upr^n the ground : he was all over 
ft» bright as a flame, so that I coiiM but just bear to look towards 
him : ms coimtenance was most inexpressibly dreadfnlj impos- 
sible for words to describe ; when he steppcd upon the ground 
with liis feet, I tliought the earth trembkd, jnst aa it had done 
before in the earthquakc ; and all the air looked, to my appre- 
bension, as if it had been fillcd with flashes of fire- He had no 
Booner ianded upon the earth, biit he moved forward towardä 
me^ with a long spear or weapon in bis band, to kill me; and 
when he came to a rising ground, at some distancc, he spoke to 
me, or I heard a voicc so terrible that it is impossible to exprcäs 
the terror of it ; all that I can say I underatood, was this : 
Seeing a!J these tliings bave not hrought thee to repentance, 
now thou shalt die ; at whicb words, I tbought he lifled up tbe 
spear that was in bis band, to kill me. 

No one that sball ever read this aecount» will expect that I 
should be ablc to describe the horrora of my soul at this terrible 
Vision ; I mean, that even while it was a dream, I even dreamed 
of those borrors; nor is it any more possible to describe tbe 
Impression that remained upon my mmd wben I awaked, and 
found it was but a dream. 

1 had^dasj nojlivine kiioivledgc : what I had received by the 
gootrnßtfucüon of'mY fiitln r v, :i>, then wom out, by an uninter* 
rupt^ series, for eigbt years, of seafaring wickedness, and a 
c'onstant conversation with none but such a» wcre, like myself, 
vdcked and proiane to the last degree. I do not remember that 



68 



ADVENTÜRES OF 






\ 



(I hady in all that tiiue, one thought that so much as tended either 
to looking upward towards God, or inward towards a reflection 
upon my own ways ; but a certain stupidity of soul, without 
desire of good, or consciousness of evil, nad entireljr over- 
'whelmed me ; and I was all tbat the most hardened, untninking, 
wicked creature among our common sailors, can be supposed to 
be ; not baving the least sense, either of the fear of God^ in 
danger, or of thankfulness to him, in deliverances. 

In the relating what is already part of my story, this will be 
the more easily believed, when 1 shaU add, that thmigh all the 
variety of miseries that had to this day befallen mt;! never had 
so much as one thought of its being the band of God, or that it 
was a just punishment for my sin ; either my rebellious behaviour 
against my father, or my present sins, which were greati^r even 
as a punisnment for the general course of my wicked 1^^ When 
I was on the desperate expedition on the desert shores of Africa, 
I never had so much as one thought of what would become of 
me ; or one wish to God to direct me whither I should go, or to 
,k rxeep me from the danger which apparently^Ausroimded me, as 
V^ well from Yoracious creatures as cruel savagi^^ut I was quite 
* thoughtless of a God or a Providence^ acted like a mere brüte, 
from the principles of nature, an4,^ the dictates of common 
sense only ; and indeed hardly that^^Vhen I was delivered and 
taken up at sea by the Portuguete^aptain, well used, and dealt 
with justly and honourably, as well as charitably, I had not the 
least thankfulness in my thoughts. When, again, I was ship- 
wrecked, ruined, and in danger of drowning, on Üiis Island, J 
was as far from remorse, or looking on it as a judgment : I only 
said to myself often, that I wasjjn.mifor tunate jp g, Anrljtnrnjri^ 
b^_always misCTable.''"^^ — — — - 

Tti^lTlJer^Wifiiri first got on shore here, and found all my 
ship's crew drowned, and myself spared, I was surprised with a 
kind of ecstacy, and some transports of soul, which, had the 
race of God assisted, might have come up to true thankfulness : 
ut it ended where it began, in a mere common flight of joy ; 
or, as I may say, being glad I was alive, wi^out the least 
reflection upon the distinguished goodness of tETlTaiid whiCh 
imd^pr cacryed i nep-a nd ■ hitd aliiLkd liiü ' UUt lt> -bc'^reserved 
wnenTäll'lhö MSI 'tvere destroyed, or any inquiry why Provi- 
dence had been thus merciful to me: just the same common 
sort of joy which seamen generally have, after they are got 
safe ashore from a shipwreck; which they drown all in the next 
bowl of punch, and forget almost as soon as it is over: and all 
the rest of my life was like it. Even when I was, afterwards, on 
due consideration, made sensi ble of my condition, — how I was 
cast on this dreadful plapaj^ul Ül' lllü fülluh' uf human kind, out 
^^^V ^^p^^^ ^ftlififi oi ^i 'O P y ^ gt of redemp tion.-^ as soon as I 
saw but a prospect of üving, anlrtiat 1 shoula not starve and 



/kind 
/ grac« 
^buti 



CvJ 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 6JJ 

perisli for hunger, all the sense of my affliction wore oflF, and 1 1^ . ^^ 
began to be very easy, applied myself to the works proper foi* ^t> 
my preservation and supply, and was far enougb from being y/^ 
afflicted at my condition, as a judgment from Heaven, or as the ^^ 
band of God against me: these were tboughts Trhich yery seldom 
entered into my head. 

The growing up of the com, as is hinted in my Journal, bad, 
at first, some little influence upon me, and began to affect me 
with seriousness, as long as I thought it had something mira- 
culous in it ; bat as soon as that part of the thought was re> 
moved, all the impression which was raised from it wore off also, 
as I have noted already. Even the earthquake, thougb nothing 
could be more terrible in its nature, or more immediately direct- 
ing to the invisible Power which alone directs such thmgs, yet 
no sooner was the fright over, but the impression it had made 
went off also. I ha d no more sense of God^ or h ia j^ jgyr^ftnfs^ 

fromhiB band, tban if 1 had beeü ui tke mosl proispcrous con-^ 
dillUIl tlf ]l!e. Bat gow^Kli^iiX began to be mcky mid a l^isure 
vluw üf'tn^^" niiserk^^ üfdeatb came to place iLseir befbre mej 
wllen nij' i?jjnlts büi^aii tu sink uiidcr the Imrdcn iif a strong 
distemper^ aiiTiiaUue ivaa exbausted with tbc violenrf! gf tlie 
fever; coiisjä ^tce^j it&tliLid slept so Ions:. bgganJ^o^av^akt^ ; and 
r^Jiroatbcfl Tiijself \iith niv paüL litbj in vliick I bad so-tivi- 
deEtlVi, hy yncfminiiuT! vi kktüLlni'^^s, provuki^d llio juüüco ol God 
t<fiay me midcr uncomniün strokeSj and to deal withmcmso 
vindictive a maiiaer, TÜEse reflecttona oppressed nie for the 
second or tbird (lay of my difiteniper; atidj in the viokmce aa 
well of the fever as of the drcadful reproaebes of my conscience, 
extorted from me some words like praying to God : thougb I 
cannot say it was a prayer attended either with desires or with 
bopes ; it was rather the voice of mere fright and distress. My 
tboughts were confused ; the convictions great upon my mind ; 
and the b^^yzor ^fj^^;;rjn,..flitffh n Ttt1^i?r°J^J['g fiUfl^^ raised 
vapours in myllCJCff'^witnlhemere apprebension : and, in these 
burries of my soul, I knew not what my tongue might express ; 
but it was rather exdamation, such as, Lord, what a miserable 
creature am I ! If I sbould be sick, I shall certainly die for want 
of help ; and what will become of me?. Then the tears burst out 
of my eyes, and I could say no more for a good while. In this 
interval, the good ^yic e of my fa ther cam e tfl T^y min^i °"^ 
presently h!»tffe3ictiSB;'^fSte b l j B ff H tt UIL^y^ ' ar the bpgiiiff^p g of ""^^ 
this "BtOryrVfirT^Sr^^^»;;« God would 

not bless me; an3 1 sbomd Iiat^Ieisure liereafter to reflect upon 
baving neglected bis counsel, wben there might be none to assist 
in my recovery. Now, said I, aloud, my dear father 's words are 
come to pass : God's justice has oy f**^"Vt^ X(\ *^\ a-^d I have none 
to help or bear me. 1 f^jegM th^ vmpft^nf f^rpyj^enr^v"^^'^'^ 



70 



ADYENTURES OF 



'^had mereifuUy put me in a Station of life.wherein I might have 
been happy and easy ; but I would neither see it myself, nor 
leam from my parents to know tbe blessing of it. I leit tbem 
to moum over m^ foUy ; and now I am left to moum under tbe 
consequences of it: I refiised tbeir belp and assistance, T^bo 
would bave pusbed me in tbe world, and would bave made 
everytbing easy to me ; and now I bave difficulties to 8trug:gle 
witb, too great for even nature itself to support ; and no assist- 
ance, no comfort, no advice. Tben I cried out, Lord, be my 
belp, for I am in great distress. Tbi« ^«.5^ ^^^ fh^^Vl^I^^* ^ ^ 
may call it so, tbat I bad made fo& Ul^y years. But 1 1 
to my JoumaL 



^etuin 




HOfiUfSON CEUSOE* 



?t 



iiä^?|^■:-v^^"^»*^. 



SECTION X* 



H!S KECOVERY. — HIS COMPOET IN READING THE SCEiPTtmES» — 
MAKES AK EXCURSION INTO TUE INTERIOR OP THE ISLAND.^ 

FORMS HIß "BOWEÄ," 

* 

June 28, Having been somewliat refreshed with tlie sleep I Lad 
Imd, and the fit. beiiig entirely off, I got up j iand tbougli tbe 
frigbt and terror of my dream was very great, yet I conBidered 
that tbe fit of tbe ague would return again tbe next day^ and 
now was my time to get soraetbiDg to refrcah and support my- 
self wben Isbould be üb The first tbing I did was to fill a large 
Square case-bottle witb vvater, and set it upon my table, in reach 
of my bed : and to take oir tbe chill or a^uisb disposition of tbe 
water, I piit abotit a quarter of a pint of mm into it, and niixed 
them together. Tben I gjot me a piece of the g^oafs tiesbj and 
broiled it on tbe coalsj but could eat very little. I walked abou t; 
but was very weak, and witbal very sad and lieavy-beartcd in 
tbe sense of my miserable condition, dresiding tbe return of my 
distemper the next day. At night, I made my supper of three 
of tbe tixrtle's egga, which I roasted in the ashes, and ate, aa we 
call it, in the shell : and tbis was the first bit of meat I had ever T 
aaked Go4'r blessing to, as I could remeraber, in ray wholc life. J 
After I had eaten, I tried to walk ; but found myself so weak, 
that I conld bardly carry tbe gun (for I never went out without 
tbat) ; so I went but a little way, and sat down upon tbe ground, 
Jooking out upon tlic sea, wbi{:b was just before me, and very 
cAlm and smootb. Aa I sat here, some such tbougbts as these 



>2 ADVENTÜRES OF 

occurred to me : What is tliis earth and sea, of which I have 
seen so much? Whence is it produced? And what am I, and 
all the other creatures, wild and tarne, human and brutal? 
Whence are we ? Surely, we are all made by some secret power, 
.who formed the earth and sea, the air and sky. And who is 
Ithat ? Then it followed most naturally, It is Go'd that has made 
Wll. Well, bnt then, it came on, if God has made all these things, 
lie guides and govems them all, and all things that concem 
fthem ; for the power that could make all things, most certainly 
I have power to guide and direct them : if so, nothin^ can happen 
[in the great dijoiit of his works, either without his knowledge 
*or appointmenty 

And if nothing happens without his knowledge, he knows 

that I am here, and am in this dread^ condition : and if nothiug 

happens without his appointment, he has appointed all this to 

befal me. Nothing occurred to my thought, to contradict any 

of these conclusions ; and therefore it rested upon me with the 

greatest force, that it must needs be that God had appointed all 

this to befal me ; that I was brought to this miserable circum- 

stance by his direction, he having the sole power, not of me only, 

but of everything that happens in the world. Immediately it 

foUowed, Why has God done this to me? What have I done to be 

thus used ? My conscience presently checked me in that inquiry, 

y as if I had blasphemed : and methought it spoke to me Uke a 

\ voice ! Wretch, dost thou ask what thou hast done ? Look back 

1 upon a dreadful mispent life, and ask thyself what thou hast not 

' done ? Ask, why is it that thou wert not long ago destroyed ? 

Why wert thou not drowned in Yarmouth Roads ; killed in the 

fight when the ship was taken by the Sallee man-of-war ; de- 

voured by the wild beasts on the coast of Africa ; or drowned 

here, when all the crew perished but thyself? Dost thou ask 

what thou hast done ? I was Struck dumb with these reflections, 

as one astonished, and had not a word to say ; no, not to answer 

to myself ; and, rising up pensive and sad, walked back to my 

retreat, and went over my wall, as if I had been going to bed : 

but my thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I had no inclination 

^ to sleep ; so I sat down in the chair, and lighted my lamp, for it 

, ^\y began to be dark. Now, as the apprehension of the return of 

?*• V- roy distemper terrified me very much, it occurred to my thought, 

V* ^'* that the Brazilians take no physic but their tobacco for almost 

all distempers ; and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco in one of 

the chests, which was quite cured ; and some also that was green, 

and not quite cured. 

\ I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt: for in this ehest I found 

y^ a eure both for soul and body. I opened the ehest, and found 

^ N what I looked for, viz., the tobacco ; and as the few books I had 

c^**^" v. saved lay there tocu^I tonk out one r>f thpt Bihlea whichj jnen- 

^ ^y tioned before, and which,'^ thislune, l had not founS leisure or so 



\ 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 73 

jmucli as mclination, to loolt into« I bslj, I took it out, and 

brought botli tbat and the tobacco witb me to the table. Wbat 

use ro make of tbe tobacco I knevv not, as to my distemper, nor 

whether it was good for it or not ; biit I tried several cxperiments 

witb it, as if I waa resolyed it sbould bit one way or othen 1 first 

took ft pieee of aleaf, and cbewed it in my moiith; Tvbichj indeed, 

at first, almoat stapified mybrain; tbe tobacco being: green and 

strongr, and sncb as I bad not been mnch nscd to» Then I took 

some and steeped it an bour or two in some mm, and resolved to 

take a dose of it wben I lay doivn : and lastly, I burnt some 

npon a pan of coab, and held my nose dose over tbe smoke of it aa 

long as 1 could bear it ; as well for tbe lieat^ as almoat for suffoca- 

tion. In tbe interval of tbis Operation, I took up tbe Bible, and 

beg^an to read : l)ut my bcad ^vas too much distitrbed by the 

tobacco to bear readiog-, at Icast at tbat time j only, baving 

opened tbe book casually, tbe <irst words tbat occurred to me 

were ihc^p : "Cnll onmein thp dny of tco ublC i ay^d, I yill daVivt^r 

tbet\ ' These words were very npt to 

itTT I lon lipon my tbong^htsat tbe 

time of rcading tliein, thuii^U iiüt. so mnch as tbey did afterwards; 

for, aa for being deittered, ttie word bad no sound, as I may say, to 

me ; tbe tbnig was so remote, so impossible in my apprehcnsion 

of thinprÄ, tbat, as üie cbildren of Israel said wben they were pro- 

mised flesh to eat, ^'Csm Godspread a tiible in tbe wilderness ?" 

so I began to say» Can even God himself deUver me froni tbia 

place? And as it was not for many years tbat any bopes 

ippeared, this prevaiied very often npon my thougbts ; bnt, how- 

?er, the words made a jp"eat Impression npon rae, and I mused 

I tbem very often, It now grew late: and tbe tobacco had, as 

tiiudt dosed my hcad so mucbt tbat I inclined to sieep: so I left 

üj lamp burning in the cave, lest I should want anytbing in the 

^ai^ht, and went to bed. ßut before 1 lay doi^Ti, l did wbat IH 

never had done in all my life: I kneeled down, and prayed to God 1 

to fulfil tbe promise to me, tbat if I called npon bim in the day | 

' of trouble, he would deliver me» After mybroken_and ira^sifect 

[ pÖ0£j**SJ3-^'^''' f *^^^^^ ^^^^ i"^^"^ ^^ whicFT liad" Bieepedtbe 

r tobacco ; whicb was so strong and rank of the tobacco» that 

L indeed l could scarce get it dowTi; imraediately upon this I wcnt 

tf» bed. I found presently the rum flew up into my bead violently ; 

but I feil into a sound sleep, and waked no more tili» by the sun, 

it must necessarily be near three o'clock in the attemoon the 

hacxt day ; nay, to this hour, I am partly of opinion, that I slept 

' all the next day and night, and tili almost three the day after j 

for otberwise, I know not bow I sbould lose a day out of my 

reckoning in the days of the wcek, as it appeared some years 

^ aflcr 1 had done; for if I had lost it hy crossing and recrossing 

t the Line, I should have lost more than one day ; but certainly I 

lo<»t a day in my aecount, and never knew wbicb way. Bö that^ 



74 ADVENTURES OP 

however, one way or the other, when I awaked I found myself 

exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheeriul : when I 

I got up I was stronger than I was the day before, and my stomach 

I better, for I was bungry ; and, in stört, I bad no fit the next day, 

but continued much altered for the better. This was the 29thl 

The 30th was my well day, of course; and I went abroad with 
my gun, but did not care to travel too far. I killed a seafowl or 
two, something like a brand goose, and brought them home ; but 
was not very forward to eat them ; so I ate some more of the 
turtle's eggs, which were very good. This evening I renewed the 
medicine, which I had supposed did me good the day before, viz. 
the tobacco steeped in rum ; only 1 did not take so much as 
before, nor did I chew any of the leaij or hold my head over the 
smoke: however, I was not so well the next day, which w'as the 
Ist of July, as I hoped I should have been ; for I had a little of 
the cold fit, but it was not much. 

July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways ; and dosed 
myself with it as at first, and doubled the quantity which I drank. 

July 3. I missed the fit for good and all, though I did not 
recover my iull strength for some weeks after. While 1 was thus 
gatheriiig strength, my thoughts ran exceedingly upon this 
Scripture, "I will deliver thee ;" and the impossibility of my de- 
liverance lay much upon my mind, in bar of my ever expecting it : 
but as I was discouraging myself with such thoughts, it occurred 
to my mind that I pored so much upon my deliverance from 
the main afflictiom, that I disregarded the deliverance I had 
received ; and I was, as it were, made to ask myself such ques- 
tions as these, viz. Have I not been delivered, and wonderfuUy, 
too, from sickness ; from the most distressed condition that could 
be and that was so frightful to me? and what notice have I taken 
of it ? Have I done my part? God has delivered me, but I have 
not glorified him ; that is to say, I have not owned and been 
thankful for that as a deliverance : and how can I expect a greater 
deliverance ? This touched my heart very much ; and imme- 
diately I knelt dMvii, and gave God thanks aloud for my recovery 
from my sickn ess j 

July 4. In flle moming I took the Bible ; and be^nning at 
the New Testament, I began seriously to read it ; and imposed 
upon myself to read a while every morning and every night; not 
binding myself to the number of chapters,Hbut as long as my 
thoughts should engage me. It was not long after I set seriously 
to this work, that I found my heart more deeply and sincerely 
affected with the wickedness of my past life. The Impression of 
my dream revived ; and the words. All these things have not 
brought Ihee to repentance, ran seriously in my thoughts. I 
was earnestly begging of God to give me repentance, when it 
happened providentially, the very same day, that, reading the 
scripture, I came to these words, " He is exalted a Fnnce and a 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 75 

Savionr ; to give repentance and to glve remission.*' I tbrew 
down the book; and with my heart as well as my liands lifted up 
to heaven, in a kind of ecstasy of joy, I cried out aloud, Jesus, 
thou son of David ! Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour ! ^ 
give me repentance ! This was the first time in all my ^ife I could ( 
say, in the true sense of the words, that I prayed ; for now I 1 
prayed with a sense of my condition, and with a true scripture \ 
view of hope, founded on the encouragement of the word of God : \ 
and from this time, I may say, I began to have hope that God—' 
would hear me. 

Now I be^an to construe the words mentioned above, "Call on 
me, and I will deliver thee," in a different sense from what I had 
ever done before ; for then I had no notion of anything being 
ealled deliverance^ but my being delivered from the captivity I was 
m : for though I was indeed at large in the place, yet the Island 
was certainly a prison to me, and that in the worst sense in the 
World. But „ P ow I leamed to takg it in another sense : now I 'VJä/' 
looked baSK'"upßn liay ßäst lue witk such Tiörror^änd my sins ^ 
8ppe«red so dreadfiil, that my soul sought nothing of God but jC^^^ 
de&verance firom the load of guilt that bore down all my comfort. 
As for my solitary Ufe, it was nothin^; I did not so much as pray 
to be dehvered from it, or think of it ; it was all of no consideiv 
ation, in comparison with this. And I add this part here, to hint 
to whoever shall read it, that whenever they come to a true sense -^ 
crfthings, the y w jll find deliverance^ fr nm «in ^ *^"^^ fiTlilri'^* 1 
blessing thaaTteüvCT&nce'l Sfom^Mction . J 

""Mj/ düliinriniilMi^im iiiiM III bei thAUgh lüot less miserable as to 
my way of living, yet much easier to my mind : and my thoughts 
being mrected, by constantly reading the scripture and praying to 
God, to things of a higher nature, I had a great deal of comfbrt 
withiin, which, tili now, I knew nothing of ; also, as my health and 
strength returned, I bestirred me to fumish myself with every- 
thing that I wanted, and make my way of living as regulär as I 
could. 

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly employed in 
Walking about with my gun in my band, a little and a little at a 
time, as a man that was gathenng up his strength after a fit of 
sickness : for it is hardly to be imagined how low I was, and to 
what weakness I was reduced. The application which I made use 
of was perfectly new, and perhaps what had never cured au ague 
before : neither can I recommend it to any one to practise, by 
this experiment : and though it did carry off the fit, yet it rather 
contributed to weakening me ; for I had frequent convulsions in 
my nerves and limbs for some time : I leamed from it also this, 
in particular ; that being abroad in the rainy season was the most 
pemicious thing to my health that could be, especially in those 
rains which came attended with storms and hurricanes of wind; 
for as the raih which came in the dry season was almost always 

6 



76 ADVENTURES OP 

accompanied with such storms, so I found that this rain was much 
more dangerous than the rain which feil in September and 
Octobcr. 

I had now been in tbis unbappy island above ten months : all 
possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to be 
entirelv taken from me ; and I firmly believed that no human 
shape nad ever set foot upon that place. Having secured my 
habitation, as I thought, mlly to my mind, 1 had a great desire to 
make a more perfect mscovery of the Island, and to see what other 
productions I might find, whlch I yet knew nothing of. 

It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a more particular 
survey of the island itself. I went up the creek first, where, as I 
hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. I foun<^ alter I came about 
two miles up, that the tide did not flow any higher ; and that it 
was no more than a little brook of running water, very fresh and 
good : bat this being the dry season, there was hardly any water 
in some parts of it ; at least, not any stream. On the banks of 
this brook I foimd many pleasant savannahs or meadows, piain, 
smooth, and covered with grass ; and on the rising parts of them, 
next to the higher grounds (where the water, as it might be 
supposed, never oveäowed), I found a great deal of tobacco, 
green, and growing to a very great and strong stalk : and there 
were divers other plants, wMch I had no knowledge of, or under- 
standing about, and that might, perhaps, have virtues of their 
own, wMch I could not find out. I searched for the cassava root, 
which the Indians, in all that climate, make their bread of ; but I 
could find none. I saw large plants of aloes^ but did not under- 
stand them. I saw several sugar-canes, but wild ; and, for want 
of cultivation, imperfect I contented myself with these disco- 
veries for this time*; and came back, musing with myself what 
course I might take to know the virtue and goodness of any of the 
fruits or plants which I should discover ; but could bring it to no 
conclusion ; for, in short, I had made so little Observation while 
I was in the Brazils, that I knew little of the plants in the field; 
at least, very little that might serve me to any purpose now in my 
distress. 

The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again ; and 
after going something farther than I had gone the day before, I 
found the brook and the savannahs begin to cease, and the 
country become more woody than before. In this part I found 
different fruits ; and particuLarly I found melons upon the ground 
in sreat abundance, and grapes upon the trees : the vines, indeed, 
had spread over the trees, and the Clusters of grapes were now 
just in their prime, very ripe and rieh. This was a surprising 
discovery, and I was exceedmgly glad of them, but I was warned 
by my experience to eat sparingly of them ; remembering that 
when I was ashore in Barbary, the eating of grapes killed several 
of our Englishmen, who were slaves there, by throwing them into 



BOBINSON CRUSOE, 



77 



flQxes and fevers. 1 found, however, an excellent use for these 
grapes ; and th&t was to eure or dry iliem in the eun, and keep 
them as dried ^apes or misins are kept; wliich I thought woold 
be (aa indeed they were) as wtolesome and as a^eeable to eat^ 
ivhen no grapes were to be had, 

I spent all tbat evening tbere, and went not back to my liabi- 
tation ; wliick, by tke way, was the firat night, as I might say, 
I had lain firom home» At nighl, I took my first contrivance, 
and got iip into a tree, where I slept weil ; and the next ntoriiing 
profeeded on my discovery, travelling near four miles, as I might 
judge by the length of the valley: keeping still «lue north, with 
a ridge of hüls on the soiith and north sides of me. At tJie end 
of this march I came to an opening, where the country seemed 
to descend to the west; and a little spring of freali water, which 
issued out at the side of the hüi by nie, ran the other way, that 
ia, due east; and the country appeared so fresh^ so green, so 
floiirishingf cverything being in a constant vcrdure, or flourish 
of spring, that it looked like a planted gardcn. I desceuded a 
little on the side ofthat delitious valej Burveyingit with a aecret 
Iriiid of pleasure (thou^li mixed witli other afflicting thoughts)» 
to tblM;p fiat fliia wag all my nwn; that T waa Ijjßg |^^^ UmI of 

[ tnis coungx Jttd&feasibly, aud liad a rigt^ ot^ poss^gjQp ; and, 
! convey it, I might have it. in iiiliciitance as completely 
as any lord of a manor in England. 1 savv heru abmidance of 
cocoa-trees, and orange, lemon, and citron trees, but all \\ild, 
and very few bearing any fruit; at least not then. However, 
the green hmes that I gatbered were not only pleasant to eat, 
bnt Tery wholesome; and I mised their juice afterwards witb 
water, which mnde it very wlioleaome, and very cool and re- 
fresljing» I found now I had business enough, to gather and 
carry home; and I resolved to lay up a störe, as well of grapea 
as limes and lemons, to furnish myself for the wet season, which 
1 knew was approaching. In order to thisj I gathered a great 
heap of grapea in one place, a lesser heap in another place; and 
a gr€at parcel of limes and lemons in another place; and taking 
afow of each with me, I travelled homeward; and resolved to 
came again, and bring a bag or sack, or wbat I could makei to 
carry the reat home. Accordingly, having spent three days in 
tfais journey, I came home (so I must now call my tent and my 
cave): but before I gottbitber, the CTapes were spoiled; the rich- 
DC«s of the friiits, and the weight ol the juice, having broken and 
bruised them, they were good for little or nothing: aa to the 
limes, they were good, but I could bring only a few. 

The next day being the 19th, I went back, having made me 
two amall bags to bring kome my harvest; but I was surprised, 
w^ - i 1 ^ -, Tny heap of grapes, which were so rieh and fine 

V i them, I found them all spread about, trod to 

piv «3. »itv^ ^^.a^ged about, Bome here, some there^ and abunduiCG 

q2 



,78 ADVENTÜRES OP 

'*<^aten and devonred. By tMs I concluded there were some ii?ild 
creatures thereabouts which had done this, but what they were 
I knew not. However, as I found there was no laying them up 
in heaps, and uo carrying them away in a sack; but that one 
way they would be destroyed, and the other way they would be 
crnshed with their own weight; I took another course: I then 
gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and hung them upon 
the ont-branches of the trees, that they might eure and dry in 
the sun; and as for the limes and lemons, I carried as many 
back as I could well stand under. 

When I came home from this joumey, I contemplated with 
great pleasure the fruitfulness of that Valley, and the pleasant- 
ness of the Situation; the security from storms on that side; the 
water and the wood; and concluded that I had pitched upon a 
place to fix my abode in, which was by far the worst part of the 
country. Upon the whole, I began to consider of removing my 
habitation, and to look out for a place equally safe as where I 
was now situate; if possible, in that pleasant froitM part of the 
island. 

This thought ran long in my head; and I was exceeding fond 
of it for some time, the pleasantness of the place tempting me : 
but when I came to a nearer view of it, I considered that I was 
now by the seaside, where it was at least possible that some- 
thinff might happen to my advantage, and, by the same ill-fiite 
thatbrought me hither, might bring some other unhappy wretdies 
to the same place; and though it was scarce probable that any 
such thing should ever happen, yet to enclose myself among the 
hüls and woods in the centre of the island, was to anticipate my 
bondaffe, and to render such an affair not only improbable, but im- 
possible ; and that therefore I ought not by any means to remoye. 
However, I was so enamoured of this place, that I spent much 
of my time there for the whole remaining part of the month of 
July; and though, upon second thoughts, I resolved, as above 
stated, not to remove, yet I built me a little kind of a bower, 
and surrounded it at a distance with a strong fence, being a 
double hedge, as high as I could reach, well staked, and filled 
between with brushwood. Here I lay very secure sometimes 

!two or three nights together ; always going over it with a ladder, 
as before : so that I fancied now I had my couniry and my sea- 
coast house. This work took me up tili the beginning of August. 
I had but newly finished my fence, and began to enjoy my 
labour, when the rains came on, and made me stick close to my 
first habitation : for though I had made a tent l^e the other, 
with a piece of sail, and spread it very well, yet I had not the 
shelter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave behind me 
to retreat into when the rains were extraordinary. 

About the beginning of August, as I said, I had finished my 
bower, and began to enjoy mysel£ The 3d of August, I found 






EOBINSON CEUSOE. fü 

the §rrapes I had hung up were perfectly dried, and indeed were 
excellent good raisiös of thc sun ; so I began to take lliemdown 
from the trees; and it was very hiippy that I did so» as t!ie rains 
whieh foUowed would iiave spoiled them, and 1 should tave lost 
the best part of my winter food ; for I had above two hiindred 
large bunches of them. No sooner had I taken tliem all down, 
and carried most of them home to my cavCj but it began to rain : 
and from hcnce, wliidi was the Hth of August, it rained, more 
or less, every day tili the middle of October ; and sometimes so 
violently, that I could not stir out of my eave for several day 8. 

lu this Bcaaon, I was much aurprised witb the increase of my 
family» I had been concerned for the loss of one of my cats, 
who ran away from me, or, as I thought, had been dead; and I 
heard no more of her, till^ to my aatomahment, shc came home 
with three kittens. This was the more stränge to me, because, 
about the end of August, though I had killed a wild cat, as I 
called it, with my gim, yet I though t it was quite a diüerent kind 
from our European cats ; yet the yoiing cats were the same kind 
of house-breed as the old one; and bolh of my cats being females, 
I thought it very stränge. But from Ihese three, I afterwarda 
came to be so pestered with cat« that I was forced to kill them 
like vermin, or wUd beastiä, and to drive them fi-oni my house 
aa much as poRsible. 

From the 14th of August to the 26tb, inceasant rain ; so that 
I could not stir, and was now very careful not to be mnch wet. 
In this conÖncment^ I began to be' straitened for food; but ven- 
turing out tmce» I one day killed a goat^ and the last day, 
which waa the 24 th, foiind a very large tortoise^ which was a 
treat to me, My food was uow regulated thus ; I ate a bunch 
of raisins for my breakfast; a piece of the goat's flesh, or of the 
turtle^ broiled, for my dinner (for, to my great misfortime, 1 had 
no vessel to boil or stew anything;) aad two or three of the 
tujrtle's eggs for my supper. 

Dnring this conßnement in my cover from the rain, I worked 
daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave ; and by degrees 
worked it oo towards one side, tUi 1 came to the outside of the 
hill; and made a door, or way out, which came beyoud ray fence 
or wall ; and so I came iu and out this way. ßnt I was not 
■ectly easy at lying so open: for as 1 had msnaged myself 

bre, I was in a perfect enclosure; whereas now, I thought 1 

y exposed ; and yet I could not perceive that there was any 
living thing to fear, the biggest creature that I had as yet Seen 
upon the island being a goat. C 

September 30. I was now come to the unhappy anniversary 
of my landing : I cast up the notches on my post, and foimd 1 
had hccn on shore three hundred and sixty-iive days. I kept 
this day as a SjflifimBJist ] setting it apart for religious exernise, 
prostratiog myself onlhe ground with the most serious humilia- 



80 ADVENTURES OF 

tion, confessing my sitis to God, acknowledging Ms rigliteous 
judgments upou me, and praying to him to have mercy on me 
through Jesus Christ ; and having not tasted the least refresh- 
ment for twelve hours, even tili the going down of the sun, I 
then ate a biscuit and a bunch of grapes, and went to bed, finish- 
ing the day as I began it. I had all this time observed no sabbath- 
day ; for as at first I had no sense of religion upon my mind, I 
had, after some time, omitted to distinguish the weeks, by making 
a longer notch than ordinary for the sabbath-day, and so did not 
really know what any of the days were : but now having cast up 
the days, as above, I found I had been there a year ; so I divided 
it into weeks, and set apart every seventh day for a sabbath : 
though I found, at the end of my account, I had lost a day or two 
in my reckoning. A little after this, my ink beginning to fail me, 
I contented myself to use it more sparingly; and to write down 
only the most remarkable events of my life, without continuing 
a daily memorandum of other things. 

The rainy season and the dry season began now to appear 
regulär to me, and I learned to divide them so as to provide for 
them accordingly ; but I bought all my experience before 1 had 
it ; and what I am going to relate, was one of the most dis- 
couraging experiments that I had made at all. 

I have mentioned that I had saved a few ears of barley, and 
rice, which I had so surprisiugly found sprang up, as I thought, 
of themselves. I believe there were about thirty stalks of rice, 
and about twenty of barley ; and now I thought it a proper time 
to sow it after the rains ; the sun being in its southem position, 
going from me. AccorÄngly I dug a piece of ground, as well as 
I could, with my wooden spade ; and dividing it into two parts, 
I sowed my grain ; but as I was sowing, it casually occurred to 
my thoughts that I would not sow it all at first, because I did 
not know when was the proper time for it ; so I sowed about two- 
thirds of the seed, leaving about a handful of each : and it was 
a great comfort to me afterwards that I did so, for not one grain 
of what I sowed this tkne came to anything ; for the dry month 
following, and the earth having thus had no rain after the seed 
was sown, it had no moisture to assist its growth, and never 
came up at all tili the wet season had come again, and then 
it grew as if it had been but newly sown. Finding my first 
seed . did not grow, which I easily imagined was from the 
drought, I sought for a moister piece of ground to make 
another trial in ; and I dug up a piece of ground near my new 
bower, and sowed the rest of mv seed in February, a little 
before the vemal equinox. This having the rainy months of 
March and April to water it, sprung up very pleasantly, and 
yielded a very good crop ; but having only part of the seed left, 
and not daring to sow all that I had, I got but a small quanüty 
at last; my whole crop not amounting to above half a peck of each 




ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

Tdnd* BuL by th 13 experiment I w as made niaster of my buBmess, [ 
and knew exactly ^vhen ivas tlie proper time to sow ; aod that I ] 
mijlht expect two seed-times, and two harvests, every ycar. ^— ' 

While tbis com was ^Qwing, I made a little discove^', wbich 
was of use to me iifterwards, As soon as tbe rains were over, 
nnd tbe weather began to settle, wbicb was about tbe montb of 
November, I made a \Tsit up ibe coiintry to roy bower; wbere, 
tbou^h I had oot been für soiiie montbs, yet 1 found all tbings 
just aa I bad left tbem. Tbe circle or double bedgje tbat I had 
jnade wtiH not only firm and entire, but tbe stakes wliicb I bad 
cut out of some treea tbat ^Qw tbereabouts, were all sbot out 
and grown witb lon^: brancbes, as murb aa a willow-trce Bsually 
shoots tbe first year al'tei" lopping its head ; bxit I could not teil 
wbat tree to call it tbat diese stakes were cut from. I was sur* 
prised, and yet very ivell pleased, to see the youne treea g^row ; 
and 1 pruned tbem, and led tbcm to gjow aß mucbalike as I coiild: 
aud it is scarce credible bow beautiful a figure tbey grew into in 
three years : so tbat, tbougb tlie bedge made a circle of about 
twenty-fiv e yards in diameter, vet tbe trees, for sucb I migbt now 
call them, soon covered it, and it w aa a complete sbade, sufficient 
|;|o lodge under all tbe dry seasoo- Tbis made me resolve to cut 
iomemorc stakes, and makeme abedge iike tbis, in a semicircle 
round ray wall {I mean tbat of my fiitst dwelling:), wbich 1 did; 
and plarlng tbe trees or stakes in a double raw, at about eigbt 
■jardsdistauce from my first fence, tbey grew presently ; and were 
jit firat a fine cover to my habitation, and afterwarda served for 
a defence also ; as I sball observe in its order. 




82 ADYENTURES OF 




SECTION XI. 

ROBINSON MAKES A TOUR TO EXPLORE HIS ISLAND. — ^EMFLOYED 
IN BASKET-MAKINO. 

I FOUND now that tlie seasons of tlie yesr might generally be 
divided, not into summer and winter as in EuropC) but into tbe 
rainy seasons and the dry seasons, wbich were generally dius : 
From the middle of February to the middle of April, rainy; the 
sun being then on or near the equinox. From the middle of April 
tili the middle of August, dry ; the sun being then north of the 
Line. From the middle of August tiU the middle of October, 
rainv; the sun being then come back to the Line. From the 
middle of October tili the middle of February, dry ; the sun being 
then to the south of the Line. 

The rainy seasons held sometimes longer and sometimes 
shorter, as the winds happened to blow; but this was the general 
Observation I made. After I had found, by experience, the ill 
cpnsequences of beisg abroad in the rain, I took care to furnish 
myself with provisions beforehand, that I might not be obliged to 
go out; and I sat within doors as much as possible during the 
wet months. This timie I found much employment, and verv 
suitable also to the tkne; for l foimd great occasion for many 
things which I had no -way^to furnish myself with but by hard 
labour and constant ap]Jiicati(ni: purticularly, I tried many ways 
to make myself a basket: bnt all tflie twigs I could get for the 
purpose proyed so britÜe tliat they would do nothing. It proved 
of excelleDt adyantage to me now^ ^:^t when I was a boy, 
I used to take great delight in standiagmt abasket-maker's in the 
town where my fether lived, to seethemmake their wicker-ware; 
and being, as boys nsually a»e, very officious to help, and a great 
observer of the manner how they worked those things, and some- 
times lending a hand, I had by these means füll knowledge of the 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



83 



methads of it^ so that I wanted nothing: but the materials ; when 
. it came into my mind, tliat tbe twigs ofthat tree from iThence I cut 
Imy itakea that pew might poBsibly be aa tough as the sallows, 
wiliows, and osiers, m En^^land ; and 1 rcsolved to try, Accord- 
ingly, the nextday, I went to my country-house, as I called it j and 
cuttmgsome ofthe smallcr twigs, I fourid them to my purpose as 
Lmnch as I could desire : whereupon I came the next time pre- 
l pared Ti^ith a hatchet to cut down a quaatity, which I soon fuund, 
I fbr ihere was great plenty of tliera. These I set np to dry Tvithin 
l my circle or hedge : and wLen they were fit for iise, I carried them 
Tto my cave : and here, during the next seasünj I emploved myself 
tfn mBkkm^j as well as I could, several haskets ; both to carry 
l^artb, or to carry or lav up anything; as I had occasion for» 
|Though I did not finish them very handsomely, yet I made them 
Buiüciently Service able for my purpose: and thns, afLerwards, I . 
took care never to he T^ithout them; and as my wicker-ware I 
decayed, J made more ; especiallv strong deep basketSj to place | 
my com ini instead of sacks, when I shoiüd come to have any I 
quantity of it. 

Having mastered this difüculty, nnd employed a world of time 

ftbout it, I beatirred myself to see, il' poasible, how to supply 

two other wants. I had no yessei to hold anything that was 

iliquid; except iwo ronleta, wbich were almost füll of rimi ; and 

l^ome glass bottles^ some of the common sIäCj and others (which 

|were case bottles) scjuare, for the liolding of waters, spiritSj &c. 

I had not äo much as a pot to boil anything ; except a great 

kettle, which I saved out of the ship, and wbich was too big for 

such use as I desircd it, viz. to make broth, aod stew a bit of meat 

iby itself. The second thiug I would fain have had, was a tohaoco- 

pipe; hut it was impossible for me to makeoue; however, I 

found a contrivance for that too at last. 1 employed myself in 

plaQttDg my second row of stakes or piles, und also in this wicker- 

working all the sumraerordry season ; when anotherbusiness took 

me up more time than it could be imagincd 1 could spare. 

I mentioned belbre^ that I had a great miud to see tbe whole 
Island; and that I had travelied np the brook, and so on to 
where I had built my bowerj and where I had an openinj^ qnite to 
tbe «ea, on the other side of the Island. I now resolved to travei 
quite across to the seashore, on tbat side : so takiiigf my gtm, a 
hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quautity of powder and shot 
than uaual; with two hiscuit-cakes, and a great bunch of raisins 
^in my pouch, for my störe; I hegan my joumey. When I had 
pAHSed the vatc whcre my bower stood, as above, I came within "T| 
rtew of the sea, to the west ; and it being a very clear day, I 1 
drly descried land, whether an ialand or continent I could not 1 
teil; but it lay very high, extending from W. to W, S,W. at a / 
very great distance;*by my guesH, it could not be leas than üfteeu ( 
or twcDty leaguea off." / 



84 ADVENTURES OP 

I could not teil what part of the world ihis might be ; otherwise 
tlian that I knew it must be part of America; and, as I concluded, 
by all my observations, must be near the Spanish dominions ; 
and perhaps was all inhabited by savages, wbere, if I sbould 
have landed, I had been in a worse condition than I was now. J 
therefore acquiesced in the dispositions of Providence, which I 
began now to own and to believe ordered everything for the best ; 
I say, I quieted my mind with this, and left off afflicting myself 
with fruitless wishes of being there. Besides, after some pause 
upon this affair, I considered that if this land was the Spanish 
coast, I should certainly, one time or other, see some vessel pass 
or repass one way or other ; but if not, then it was the savage 
coast between the Spanish country and the Brazils, whose inhabi- 
tants are indeed the worst of savages ; for they are cannibals, or 
men-eaters, and fall not to murder and devour all hmnan beings 
that fall into their hands. 

With these considerations, Walking very leisurely forward, I 
found this side of the island, where I now was, much pleasanter 
than mine ; the open or savannah fields sweetly adomed with 
flowers and grass, and fall of very fine woods. I saw abundance 
of parrots ; and fain would have caught one, if possible, to have 
kept it to be tame, and taught it to speak to me. I did, after 
taking some pains, catch a young parrot; for I knocked it down 
with a stick, and, having recovered it, I brought it home ; bat it 
was some years before I could make him speak ; however, at 
last I taught him to call me by my name very familiarly. But the 
accident that followed, though it be a trifle, will be very diverting 
in its place. 

I was exceedingly amused with this journey. I found in the low 
grounds hares, as I thought them to be, and foxes : but they 
differed greatly from all Öie other kinds I had met with ; nor 
could I satisfy myself to eat them, though I killed several. But 
I had no need to be venturous : for I had no want of food, and of 
that which was very good too ; espedally these three sorts, viz. 
goats, pigeons, and turtle, or tortoise. With these, added to my 
grapes, Leadenhall-market could not have furnished a table 
better than I, in proportion to the Company ; and though my case 
was deplorable enough, yet I had great cause for thankfulness ; 
as I was not driven to any extremities for food, but had rather 
plenty, even to dainties. 

I never travelled on this journey above two nules outright in a 
day, or thereabout ; but I took so many tums and retums to see 
what discoveries I could make, that I came weary enough to the 
place where I resolved to sitdown for the night; and then I either 
reposed myself in a tree, or surrounded myself vnth a row of 
stakes, set upright in the ground, either from one tree to 
another, or so as no wild creature could come at me without 
waking me. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 8^ 

As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised to see that 
I had taken up my lot on the worst side of the Island : for here 
indeed the shore was covered with innumerable turtles; whereas, 
on the other side, I had found but three in a year and a half. 
Here was also an infinite number of fowls of many kinds.; some of ""** 
which I had seen, and some of which I had not seen before, and 
many of them very good meat; but such as I knew not the names 
of, except those caUed penguins. 

I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very sparing of 
my powder and shot ; and therefore had more mind to kill a she-^^ 
goat, if I could, which I could better feed on. But, though there 
were many goats here, more than on my side the Island, yet it was 
with much more difficulty that I could come near them ; the 
country being flat and even, and they saw me much sooner than 
when I was upon a hill. 

I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter than 
mine ; yet I had not the least inclination to remove; for as I was 
fixed in my habitation, it became natural to me, and I seemed all 
the while I was here to be as it were upon a joumey, and from 
home. However, I travelled along the seashore towards the 
east, I suppose about twelve miles ; and then setting up a great 
pole upon the shore for a mark, I concluded I would go home 
again; and that the next journey I took should be on the other 
side of the Island, east from my dwelling, and so roimd tili I came 
to my post again : of which in its place. 

I took another way to come back than that I went, thinking I 
could easily keep so much of the island in my view, that I could 
not miss my first dwelling by viewing the country : but I found 
my seif mistaken ; for being come about two or three miles, I 
found myself descended into a very large Valley, but so sur- 
rounded with hills, and those hills covered with wood, that I could 
not see which was my way by any direction but that of the sun, 
nor even then, unless I knew very well the position of the sun at 
that time of the day. And it happened to my farther misfortune, 
that the weather proved hazy for three or four days while I was 
in this Valley ; and not being able to see the sun, I wandered 
about very uncomfortable, and at last was obliged to find out the 
seaside, look for my post, and come back the same way I went ; 
and then by easy joumeys I tumed homeward, the weather being 
exceeding hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other 
things very heavy. 



iVDYENTURES OF 




SECTION XII. 



HE RETURNS TO HIS CAVE. — ^HIS A6RICULTURAL LABOURS AND 
SUCCESS. 

In this joumey, my dog suiprised a young kid, and seized upon 
it : and running to take hold of it, I caught it, and saved it alive 
from the dog. I liad a great mind to bring it bome if I could ; for 
I bad often been musing wbetber it migbt not be possible to get a 
kid or two, and so raise a breed of tarne goats, wbich migbt supply 
me wben my powder and sbot sbould be all spent. I made a coUar 
for tbis little creature, and with a string y/loich I bad made 
of some rope-yam, wbicb I always carried about me, I led bim 
along, tbougb witb some difficulty, tili I came to my bower, and 
tbere I endosed bim and lefb bim ; for I was very impatient to be 
at bome, from wbence I bad been absent above a monib. 

I cannot express wbat a satisfaction it was to me to come into 
my old butcb, and lie down in my bammock bed. Tbis little 
wandering joumey, witbout a settled place of abode, bad been so 
unpleasant to me, that my own bouse, as 1 caUed it to myself, was 
a perfeet settlement to me, compared to tbat ; and it rendered 
everytbing about me so comfortable, tbat I resolved I would 
never go a great way from it again, wbile it sbould be my lot to 
stay on tbe island. 

1 reposed myself bere a week, to rest and regale myself after 
my long joumey: during wbicb, most of tbe time was taken up in 
tbe weigbty affair of msudng a cage for my Foll, wbo began now 



RÖBIKBOK CRUSOE. if 

to be more domestic^ aud to be migbty woll ftcqudnt^d with me. 
Then 1 began to tliink of the poor kid vvliioh I bad penned witbin 
my Utile circle, and resolved to fetcb it home, or give it some food : 
accordinglj I went, und found it whi^re I Icft it {ihr indeed it could 
not get out,) but was almost starved for want of food. 1 went and 
cut bougbs of trees, and brancbes of auch sbrobs &s I could find, 
and tbrew it over, aud baving fed it, I tied it as I did before, to 
lead it away ; but it iras so tann; with being btmgryr tbat I bad no 
need to liave tied it, for it followed me üke a dog : and aß I 
continnaliy fed it^ the creatiire became so loying, so gentle, and so 
fond, tbat it was from tbat time oiie of ray domestics also, and 
would never leave me afterwards. 

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was nowcome, and 
I kept the 3ütb of September in the same solemn manner aa 
before, being the anniversary of my landing on the ialaud; baving 
now been there two years, and no more prospect of being deb- 
vercd than tlie tirst flay I came there/T^ spent the whole day in 
ftiinmble and thankful aeknowiedgmerit»-for the many wonderftil 
lÄsercics wbich my soütary condition was attended with, and 
l-witbout whicb it might have been infinitely more miserable, I 
I gave bumble and hearty thanks to God for having been pleased 
to discovcr to me, that it was possible I raight be more bappy 
cven in thia sobtary condition, than I should have been in tke 
enjoymcnt of society, and in all the pleaaitrea of the world ; 
l^at he could fidly make up to me the dcficiericies of my sobtary '"\ 
«täte, and the want of human society, by hi» presence, and the / 
Communications of bis grace to my soul; supporting, comforting, ' 
and encouraging me to depend upou Maprovidence here, and to I 
hope for bis eternal presence bereafter/^ -^ 

It was now tbat I began sensibly to fe«! how much more happy 

tbc life I now led was, with all ita miserable circumstances, tian 

the wickctl, cursed, abominable life l led all the past part of ray 

L days : and now 1 changed both my sorrows and my joys : my 

IVery desirea altered, my affectiong cbanged their gustSi and my 

Melights were perfectly new from wbat they were at my first 

lüomiog» or indeed for the two years past. Before, aa I walked 

about/eirber on my hunting, or for vie'iräg the country, the 

anguisb of my bouI at my condition would break out upon me on 

. a sudden, and my very beart would die withiu me, to tbink of the 

hroods, the mouotains, the deserts I was in ; and how I wa8 s 

. prisoner, locked up with tbc eternal bars and bolta of the oceao, 

in an uninhabited wilderneas, without redemption. In the midst 

of the greateat composures of my mind^ tbis ivould break out 

ilipon me like a storm, and make me wring my hnnds and weep 

ke a cbild : somctimea it would take me in tbc middle of my 

^ork, and I would immediately sit down and sigb, and look upon 

ibe gToand for an bour or two togelher : tbis was still worse to 

mc ; but if I could burat into tears» or give vent to my feelings 



88 ADVENTURES OF 

by words, it woitld go off; and my grief being exbausted, would 

. abate. 

But now I began to exercise myself witb new thougbts ; I daily 
read the word of God, and applied all the comforts of it to my 
present State. One morning, being very sad, 1 opened the Bible 
upon tbese words, " I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee :" 
immediately it occurred that tbese wor^s were to me ; wby eise 
should tbey be directed in such a manner, just at the moment 
when I was mourning over my condition, as one forsaken of God 
and man ? Well, then, said T, if God does not forsake me, of what 
ill consequence can it be, or what matters it, though the world 
should forsake me ; seeing, on the other band, if I had all the 

i World, and should lose the favour and blessing of God, there 
would be no comparison in the loss ? 

IFrom this moment I began to conclude in my mind that it was 
possible for me to be more happy in this forsaken, solitary con- 
dition, than it was probable I should ever have been in any other 
particular State of the world ; and with this thought I was going 
to give thanks to God for bringing me to this place. I know not 
what it was, but something shocked my mind at that thought, 
and I durst not speak the words. How canst thou be such a 
hypocrite, said I, even audibly, to pretend to be thankHü for a 
condition, which, however thou mayest endeavour to be con- 
tented with, thou wouldest rather pray heartily to be delivered 
from ? Here I stopped ; but though I could not say I thanked 
God for being here, yet I sincerely gave thanks to God for 
opening my eyes, by whatever afflicting providences, to see the 
former condition of my life, and to moum for my wickedness, and 
repent. I never opened the Bible, or shut it, but my very soul 
within me blessed God for direcüng my friend in England, without 
any order of mine, to pack it up among my goods ; and for 
assisting me afterwards to save it out of the wreck of the ship. 

Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third year ; 
and though I have not given the reader the trouble of so par- 
ticular an accoimt of my works this year as the first, yet in 
ffeneral it may be observed, that I was very seldom idle ; but 
having regularly divided my time, according to the several daUy 
employments that were before me ; such as, first, My duty to 
God, and the reading the Scriptures, which I constantly set apart 
8ome time for, thrice every day : secondly, Going abroad with 
my gun for food, which generaUy took me up three hours every 
fnoming, when it did not rain : thirdly, Ordering, curing, pre- 
serving, and cooking what I had killed or catched for my supply ; 
these took up great part of the day ; also it is to be considered, 
that in the middle of the day, when the sun was in the zenith, 
the violence of the heat was too great to stir out ; so that about 
four hours in the evening was all the time I could be supposed 
to work in ; with this exception, that sometimes I changed my 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 89 

lionrs of hunting and vrorking, and went to werk in the morning, 
and abroad with my gun in äe aftemoon. 

To this Short time allowed for labour, I desire may be added 
the exceeding laborionsness of my work ; the many hours which, 
for want of tools, want of help, and want of skill, everything I did 
took up out of my time : for example, I was fiill two and forty 
daya making me a board for a long shelf, which I wanted in my 
cave; whereas, two sawyers, with their tools and a sawpit, 
would haye cut six of them out of the same tree in half a day. 

My case was this ; it was a large tree that was to be cut down, 
because my board was to be a broad one. This tree I was three 
days cutting down, and two more in cutting off the boughs, and 
reducing it to a log, or piece of timber. With inexpressible 
hacking and hewing, I reduced both the sides of it into chips» 
tili it was light enough to move; then I tumed it, and made one 
side of it smooth and flat as a board, from end to end ; then 
tuming that side downward, cut the other side, tili I brought the 
plank to be about three inches thick, and smooth on both sides. 
Any one may judge the labour of my hands in such a piece of 
work ; but labour and patience carried me through that, and 
many other things : I only observe this in particiüar, to show 
the reason why so much of my time went away with so little 
work, viz. that what might be a little to be done with help and 
tools, was a vast labour, and required a prodigious time to do 
alone, and by band. Notwithstanding this, with patience and 
labour 1 went through many things ; and, indeed, everything 
that my circumstances made necessary for me to do, as will 
appear by what follows. 

I was now in the months of November and December, expect- 
ing my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had manured or 
dug up for them was not great ^ for, as I observed, my seed of 
each was not above the ^uantity of half a peck, having lost one 
whole crop by sowing m the dry season : but now my crop 
promised very well ; when, on a sudden, I found I was in danger 
of losing it all again by enemies of several sorts, which it was 
scarce possible to keep from it ; as, first, the goats, and wild 
creatures which I called bares, who, tastin^ the sweetness of the 
blade, lay in it night and day, as soon as it came up, and ate it 
so dose, that it could get no time to shoot up into stalk. 

I saw no remedy for this, but by making an enclosure about 
it with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of toil ; and the 
more, because it required speed. However, as my arable land 
was but small, suited to my crop, I got it tolerably well fenced 
in about three weeks' time ; and shooting some of the creatures 
in the daytime, I set my dog to guard it in the night, tying him 
up to a stake at the gate, where he would stand and bark all 
night long; so in a little time the enemies forsook the place, and 
the com grew very strong and weU, and began to ripen apace. 




90 ADVENTÜRES OP 

But as t&e beasts ruined me before, while my com was in tbe 
blade, so the birds were as likely to ryin me now, when it was 
in the ear ; for going along by the place to see how it throve, I 
saw my litüe crop surrounded with fowls, I know not of how 
many sorts, who stood, as it were, watching tili I should be gone. 
l immediately let fly among them (for I always had my gun with 
me) ; I had no sooner shot, but there rose up a little cloud of 
fowls, which I had not seen at all, from among the corn itself. 

This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a few days they 
would devour all my hopes ; that I should be starved, and never 
be able to raise a crop at all ; and what to do I could not teil : 
however, I resolved not to lose my com, if possible, though I 
shoiüd watch it night and day. In the first place, I went among 
it, to see what damage was already done, and found they had 
spoiled a good deal of it ; but that as it was yet too green for 
them, the loss was not so great, but that the remainder was 
likely to be a good crop, if it could be sayed. 

I staid by it to load my gun, and then comiiig away, I could 
easily see tne thieves sitting upon all the trees about me, as if 
they only waited tili I was gone away ; and the event proved it 
to be so : for as I walked off, as if gone, I was no sooner out of 
their sigtit, than they dropped down, one by one, into the corn 
again. I was so provoked, that I could not have patience to 
stay tili more came on, knowing that every gram they ate now 
was, as it might be said, a peck loaf to me in the consequence ; 
so Coming up to the hedge, I fired again, and killed three of them. 
This was what I wished for ; so I took them up, and served them 
as we serve notorious thieves in England, viz. hanged them in 
chains, for a terror to others. It is impossible to imagine that 
this should have such an effect as it had ; for the fowls not only 
never came to the corn, but, in short, they forsook all that part 
of the Island, and I could never see a bird near the place as long 
as my scarecrows hung there. This I was very glad of, you may 
be sure ; and about the latter end of December, which was our 
second harvest of the year, I reaped my corn. 

I was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it down : and 
all I could do was to make one as well as I could, out of one of 
the broad swords, or cutlasses, which I saved among the arms 
out of the ship. However, as my first crop was but small, I had 
no great difficulty to cut it down : in short, I reaped it my way, 
for I cut nothing off but the ears, and carried it away in a great 
basket which I had made, and so rubbed it out with my hands ; 
and at the end of all my harvesting, I found that out of my half 
peck of seed I had near two busheis of rice, and above two 
busheis and a half of barley ; that is to say, by my guess, for I 
had no measure. 

However, this was great encouragement to me ; and I foresaw 
that, in time, it would please God to supply me with bread ; and 



ROBIUSON CRUSOE. 91 

yet here I was perplexed again ; for I neither knew Low to grind, 
or make meal of my com, or indeed Low to clean it and part it; 
nor if made into meal, how to make bread of it ; and if how to 
make it, yet I knew not how to bake it : these things being added 
to my desire of having a good quantity for störe, and to secure 
a constant supply, I resolved not to taste any of this crop, but to 
preserve it all for seed against the next season ; and, in the mean 
time, to employ all my study and hours of working to accomplisb 
this great work of providing myself with corn and bread. ^sjiJt* '^'^ 

It mi^ht be tnüy said. that now I worked for my bread . It i8> .„v^itA 
a litfle wondertul, and WÄai 1 believe few people have !EougK 
much upon, viz. the stränge multitude of little things necessary va.# 
in the providing, producing, curing, dreasing, making, and finish- \J \ 
ing this one article of bread. I^^b;atjffiÄfiUEgäa£ÄA^ 
stateofngtUCe^ fonnd this to my aaSy'discouragement, and was 
idStle more sensible of it every hour, even after I had got the 
first handful of seed-com, which, as I have said, came up imex- 
pectedly, and indeed to a surprise. 

First, I had no plough to turn up the earth; no spade or 
shovel to dig it : well, this I conquered, by making a wooden 
spade, as I observed before; but this did my work in but ä 
wooden manner ; and though it cost me a great many days to 
make it, yet, for want of iron, it not only wore out the sooner, 
but made my work the harder, and performed it much worse. 
However, this I bore with, and was content to work it out with 
patience, and bear with the badness of the Performance. When 
the corn was sown, I had no harrow, but was forced to go over it 
myself, and drag a great heavy bough of a tree over it, to Scratch 
it, as it may be called, rather than rake or harrow it. When it 
was growing and grown, I have observed already how many 
things I wanted to fence it, secure it, mow or reap it, eure and 
carry it home, thresh, part it from the chaflf, and save it : then I 
wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it : yeast and salt to 
make it into bread, and an oven to bake it ; and yet all these 
things I did without, as shall be observed ; and the corn was an 
inestimable comfort and advantage to me : all this, as I said, 
made every thing laborious and tedious to me, but that there was 
no help for ; neither was my time so much loss to me, because, 
as I had divided it, a certain part of it was every day appointed 
to these works ; and as I resolved to use none of the corn for 
bread tili I had a greater quantity by me, I had the next six 
months to apply myself whoUy, by labour and invention, to 
fumish myself with Utensils proper for the performing aU the 
Operations necessary for making corn fit for my use. 



92 




SECTION XIII. 

BIS MANÜFACTÜRE OF POTTERY, AND CONTRIVANCE FOR BAKING 
BREAD. 

BUT now I was to prepare more land ; for I had seed enougli 
to sow aboye an acre of ground. Before I did this, I had a week's 
work at least to make me a spade ; whicli, wben it was done, 
was but a sorry one indeed, and very beavy, and required double 
labour to work with it: bowever, I went througb that, and 
fiowed my seed in two large flat pieces of ground, as near my 
house as I could find tbem to my mind, and fenced tbem in witb 
a good bedge ; tbe stakes of wbicb were all cut off tbat wood 
wbich I bad set before, and knewit would grow ; so tbat, in one 
year's time, I knew I sbould bave a quick or living bedge, tbat 
would want but little rep.air. Tbis work took me up fuU tbree 
montbs ; because a great part of tbe time was in tbe wet season, 
wben I could not go abroad. Within doors, tbat is, wben it 
rained, and I could not go out, I found employment on tbe 
following occasions ; always observing, tbat wbile I was at work, 
^ I diverted myself witb talking to my parrot, and teacbing bim to 
" speak ; and I quickly taugbt bim to know bis own name, and at 
last to speak it out pretty loud, Poll ; wbicb was tbe first word 
I ever beard spoken in tbe island by any moutb but my own. 
Tbis, tberefore, was not my work, but an assistant to my work; 
for now, as I said, I bad a great employment upon my bands, as 
follows : I bad long studied, by some means or otber, to make 
myself some eartben vessels, wbicb indeed I wanted mucb, but 
knew not wbere to come at tbem: bowever, considering tbe beat 
of tbe climate, I dld not doubt but if I could find out any clay, I 
migbt botcb up some such pot as might, being dried in tbe sun. 



EOBINSON CRDSOB* 99 

r hard and atrong enougli to bear handliae;, and to hoM any- 
Qg that was dry, and reqiiired to be kept so ; and as this was 
necessary in the prcparing com, mc4il, Src, which was the thiiig I 
Avas lipon ^ I resolved to make soime as lar^e as 1 could, and fit 
only to stand like jars, to hold what sbwiild be piit into tbem. 

It wouldmake tbe reader pity mej or ratlier lau{2:li at rae» to teil 
bow rnany awkward ways I took to raiae tbis pastil ; wbat odd, 
misshapeu, ngly things I niade ; bow many of tbe»m feil in, and 
how many feil oiit, tbe clay not beincr stlff enougb tt» bear ita own 
iveigbt; how many cracked bv tlie ovcr violent beat of tbe sun^ 
being set out too bastily ; and how raany feil in pieces witb only 
removing, as well before as after they were dried ; and, in a word, 
how, after having laboured hard to find tbe clay, to dig it, lo 
temper it^ to brbig it bome, and work it, I coiild not make ahove 
iwo large earthen ngly tbings (I cannot call tbem jansj in nbout 
two naontbs' labour. 

wKtJwever, as tbe sim baked tbese two very dry and hard, I 
liiled tbem very gently up^ and set them down again in two j^eat 
tricker baskets, w hieb I bad made on purpoae for tbem, tbat they 
might not break ; and as between tbe pot and tbe basket tbere 
waa a little room to spare, I stiiiTcd it fnll of tbe rice and barley 
Btraw ; and tbese two pota being to stand al\k'ay3 dry, 1 tbought 
w ould hold my dry coni, and perüapa tlie meal^ when the com 
"Was bniised. 

Tboiigh I miscarried so mnch in my desi«^ for large pots, yet I 
tnade several s mal] er things witb better success ; such as little 
rotmd pots, ßat dishes, pitchers, and pipkina, and anything my 
band tnrned to j and tbe beat of the sun baked tbem very hard. 

But all this would not ans wer my eiid, which was to get an 
earthen pot to hold liquids, and bear tbe fire, which noue of tbese 
cuuld do. It happencd some time after, making a pretty large 
lire for ouoking my meat^ wben 1 werit to put it out after I bad 
done witb it, I tbund a broken piece of onc of my earthenware 
vessels in the fire, buriit as hard as a stone, and red as a tile- I was 
agreeably surpnsed to see it ; and said to myself, tbat certainly 
they inight be made to buni ivbole, if they wonld buru broken. 

ITiis set me to study how to order my fIre, so as to make it 
burn some pota. I had no notion of a kiln, such as the potters 
bnrn in, or of glazing them witb lead, though 1 had some lead tfi 
do it witb j but I placed three large pipkina atid two or three 
pots in a pile, one upon another, and placed my fire-wood *ill 
round it, with a great hcap of embers under them. 1 plied tbe fire 
witb fresh fiiel round the outside, and upon the top, tili I sau the 
pots in ihe inside redhot quite throngb, and observcd tbat they 
did not crack at all : when I aaw them elear red, [ let them stand 
in tbat beat about five or six hours, tili 1 fonnd one of them, 
though it did not crack, did melt or mn ; ihv the saud which was» 
mixiHl w ith the clay raelted by the violeneo of tbe beat, and vtould 
liAve rim lato glass, if I had gone on; so 1 slackcd my fire gradu- 
n2 



94 ADVENTÜRES OF 

ally, tili the pots begrtn to abate of the red colour ; and watching 
them all night, that I might not let the fire abate too fast, in the 
moming I had three very good, I will not say handsome, pipkins, 
and two otber earthen pots, as bard burnt as could be desired ; 
and one of them perfecüy glazed with the running of the sand. 

After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted no sort of 
earthenware for my use : but I must needs say, as to the shapes 
of them, they were very indifferent, as any one may suppose, as 
I had no way of making them but as the children make dirt pies, 
or as a woman would make pies that never learned to raise paste. 
No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal to mine, 
when I found I had made an earthen pot that would bear the 
fire ; and I had hardly patience to stay tili they were cold, before 
I set one on the fire again, with sorae water in it, to boil me some 
meat, which it did admirably well ; and with a piece of a kid I 
made some very good broth ; though I wanted oatmeal, and 
several other ingredients requisite to make it so good as I would 
have had it been. 

My next concem was to get a stone mortar to stamp or beat 
some com in ; for as to the mill, there was no thought of arriving 
to that perfection of art with one pair of hands. To supply this 
want I was at a great loss ; for, of all trades in the world, I was 
as perfectly unqualified for a stonecutter as for any whatever ; 
neither had I any tools to go about it with. I spent many a day 
to find out a great stone big enough to cut hoUow, and make fit 
for a mortar ; but could find none at all, except what was in the 
solid rock, and which I had no way to dig, or cut out ; nor, 
indeed, were the rocks in the island of sufficient hardness, as they 
were all of a sandy crumbling stone, which would neither bear 
the weight of a heavy pestle, nor would break the com without 
filling it with sand : so, after a great deal of time lost in search- 
ing for a stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out a great 
block of hard wood, which I found indeed much easier ; and 
getting one as big as I had strength to stir, I rounded it, and 
formed it on the outside with my axe and hatchet ; and then, 
with the help of the fire, and infinite labour, made a hollow place 
in it, as the Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After this, I 
made a great heavy pestle, or beater, of the wood, called iron- 
wood : and this I prepared and laid by against I had my next 
crop of com, when I proposed to myself to grind, or rather 
pound, my com into meal, to make my bread. 

My next difiiculty was to make a sieve, or search, to dress my 
meal, and to part it from the bran and the husk, without which 
I did not see it possible I could have any bread. This was a 
most diflficult thing, even but to think on ; for 1 had nothing like 
the necessary thing to make it ; I mean fine thin canvass or 
stuff, to search the meal through. Here I was at a füll stop for 
many months ; nor did I really know what to do : linen I had 
none Icft, but what was mere rags ; T had goats' hair, but neither 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 95 

knew how to weave it nor spin it ; and had I known how, here 
were uo tools to work it with : all the reraedy I found for this 
was, at last recollecting I had, among the seamen's clothes which 
were saved out of the ship, some neckdoths of calico or muslin, 
with some pieces of these I made three small sieves, proper 
enough for the work ; and thus I made shift for some years : 
how I did afterwards, I shall show in its place. 

The baking part was the next thing to be considered, and how 
I should make bread when I came to have com : for, first, 1 had no 
yeast : as to that part, there was no supplying the waAt, so I did 
not concem myself mticb about it ; but for an oven^I was indeed 
puzzled. At length I found out an expedient for that also, which 
was this ; I made some earthen vessels, very broad, but not 
deep, that is to say, abottt two feet diameter, and not above nine 
inches deep : these I bumed in the fire, as I had done the other, 
and laid them by ; and when I wanted to bake, I made a great 
fire upon my hearth, which I had paved with some square tiles, 
of my own making and buming also ; but I should not call them 
Square. When the firewood was burned into embers, or live 
coals, I drew them forward upon the hearth, so as to cover it all 
over, and there let them lie tili the hearth was very hot ; then 
sweeping away all the embers, I set down my loaf, or loaves, 
and covering them with the earthen pot, drew the embers all 
round the outside of the pot, to keep in and add to the heat ; and 
thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my barley 
loaves, and became, in a little time, a good pastrycook into the 
bargain ; for I made myself several cakes and puddings of the 
rice ; but made no pies, as I had nothing to put into them except 
the flesh of fowls or goats. 

It need not be wondered at, if all these things took me up 
most part of the third year of ray abode here ; for, it is to be 
observed, in the intervals of these things, I had my new harvest 
and husbandry to manage : I reaped ray com in its season, and 
carried it home as well as I could, and laid it up in the ear, in 
my large baskets, tili I had time to rub it out; for I had no floor 
to thresh it on, or Instrument to thresh it with. 

And now, indeed, my stock of com increasing, I really wanted 
to build my barns bigger : I wanted a place to lay it up in ; for 
the increase of the com now yielded me so rauch, that I had of 
the barley about twenty busheis, and of rice as much, or more, 
insomuch that now 1 resolved to begin to use it freely ; for my 
bread had been quite gone a great while : 1 resolved also to see 
what quantity would be sufißcient for me a whole year, and to 
80 w but once a year. 

Upon the whole, I found that the forty busheis of barley and 
rice were much more than I could consume in a year ; so I 
resolved to sow just the same quantity every year that I sowed 
the last, in hopes that such a quantity womd fully provide me 
with bread, &c. 




MEDITATES HIS ESCAPE FROM THE ISLAND-— BÜILDS A CANOE. — 
FAILURE OF H18 SCHEME. — RESIGNATION TO HIS CONDITION. — 
MAKEÜ HIMSELP A NEW DRES3* 

All tlie wliile tliese tbins^ were doiner, you may be svire my 
ihotL^bts niii many time.i upon tbe proapcct of land wliicb I had 
seea trom tbe ntber side of the Island ; and I Avas not without 
some secret wisbes tbat I was on aliore tbere ; iancyingT tli^t 
seeiiig^ tbe main land, and an inliabited cciuntry, 1 migbt find 
some way or otber tt> convcy roysell" fartber, and ]jerbaps at Last 
find so nie meiins of escape. 

But all thia while I in ade no allowance for tbe dangers of svick 
a condition^ and Ihat 1 micrbt fall mto the hands of savages, and 
perbaps sucb as l niidit have reason to think far worae than the 
lions and tigers of x^lVica ; that if I once came in tbeir power, I 
shonld run a bazard of more than a tbouäand to onc oi" being 
kUled» and perhapa of being eaten; for 1 liad he^ird tbat the 
people of die Carribeau coast were cannibals^ or man-eaters ; 
and I knevVj hy the latitiide, tbat I could not be far off from that 
sborc. Then supposing tbey ivere not cannibals, yet that they 
niight kill nie, m tbcy had niany Europeans wbo bad fallen into 
tbeir banda, even wh'en tbey baVe been ten or twenty together; 
miicb more I, who was but one^ and coidd make little or no 
defence ; all these tbings, I say, whlch I ougbt to have con- 
sidered well of, and did cast up in my tbonghta afterwards, took 
up none of my apprebcnsions at first; yet my head ran migbtily 
upon tbe thougbt of getting 0T?er to tbe shore. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 9t 

Now I wished for iny boy Xury^ and tlie long-boat Tvitli tlie 
shoulder-of-mutton sail, wiih wliich I sailed above a thousand 
miles on the coast of AMca: but this was in vain : tbea I tbought 
I would go and look at our sliip'3 boat, wbicb, as I have said, 
WAS blown iip upon the shore a great way, in the storm, when we 
were first cast away. She lav nearly wbere she did at first, bnt 
not quite ; having turned, by the force (if the waves and the winda, 
ahnost bottoni upvvard^ ankamst a hig^h ridjsje of beachy rovigh 
sand ; but no water abont her, as before. If I bad had hands to 
have redtted her, and to have hiimched her mto the water, the 
boat would have done very well, and I might have g:one back 
into the Braifiils with her cawily cnongh ] but I raight have fore- 
^^^ Seen that I could no more turn her and set herupright upon her 
^^■dbottom^ thnu I could remove the island : however, I went to the 
^^Pfroodsi and cut levera and roUer«, and bruu^^ht them to the boat, 
i resolvmg to try what 1 could do ; suggesting to mysclfjthat if I 
I could but turn her down, and repair the damage she bad received, 
I she would be a very good boatj and I might " "WjiTir tn irita lir her. 
I I spared no paina. indee^ ^p t||j^ ^i^^f- f^f^iidesa igg, and 

^^H speui, 1 think, threeor four wecks about it: at laat^ nndin^ it 
^^Bimpossible to heave her up with niy httle strength, I feil to dig- 
^* ging away the sand, to iindermine her, and so as to make her 
lall down, setting pieces of wood to thnist and guide her right 
in the fiilh Bnt when J hat! done this, 1 was unable to stir her 
up again, or to get under her, much less to move her forward 
towards the water; so 1 was forced to give it ovcr: and yet, 
though I gave over the hopf^s of the boat, my desire to venture 
over the maiu increased, rather than diminiähed^ as the means 
for it seemed impossible. 

At length, I began to think wlicther it waa not possible to 
make myself a canoe» or periagua, such as the natives of those 
climates make, even without tools, or, as I raight say, without 
hands, of ihe trunk of a great tree. This I not oniy thought 
possible, but easy, and pleaaed myself extremely with the idea 
of making it, and with my having much more convcnience forit 
than any of the Negroes or Indianas; but not at all considering 
the particular inconvenienccs which I lay under more than the 
Indians did, viz. the want of hands to move it into the water 
when it was niade^ a difiicnlty much h arder for me to surmount 
than all the consequences of want of tools could be to them: for 
what could it avail nie» if, al^cr I bad chosen my tree, and with 
much trouble cut it down, and raight be able with my tools to 
hew and dub the outside into the proper shape of a boat, and 
bum or cut out the inside to make it hollow, so as to make a 
boat of it — if, after all thia^ I must leave it just wbere I foond 
it, and was not able to launch it into the water? 

One would imagine, if I had bad the least rcßection upon my 
mind of my circiunstaocea while I was making this boat, I 



/ 



•S^ö ADVENTÜRES OF 

shoald häve immediately thought how I was to get it into the 
sea: but my thoughts were so intent upon my voyage in it, thal 
I never once considered how I should get it off the land; and ii 
was really, in its own nature, more easy for me to guide it over 
forty-five miles of sea, than the forty-five fathoms of land, 
where it lay, to set it afloat in the water. 

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever 
man did, who had any of his senses awake. I pieased myself 
with the design, without determining whether I was able to 
undertake it; not but that the difficulty of launching my boat 
came often into my head; but I put a stop to my own inquiries 
into it, by this foolish answer: Let us first make it; I Warrant 
I will find some way or other to get it along when it is done. 

This was a most preposterous method; but the eagerness of 
my fancy prevailed, and to work I went. I felled a cedar tree, 
and I question much whether Solomon ever had such a one for 
the building of the Temple at Jerusalem; it was five feet ten 
inches diameter at the lowerpart nextthe stump, and fourfeet 
eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two feet, where it 
lessened and then parted into branches. It was not without in- 
finite labour that l felled this tree ; I was twenty days hacking 
and hewing at the bottom, and fourteen more getting the branches 
and limbs, and the vast spreading head of it, cut off: after this, 
it cost me a month to shape it and dub it to a proportion, and 
to something like the bottom of a boat, that it might swim up- 
right as it ought to do. It cost me near three months more td 
clear the inside, and work it out so as to make an exact boat of 
it: this I did, indeed, without fire, by mere mallet and chisel, 
and by the dint of hard labour, tili I had brought it to be a very 
handsome periagua, and big enough to have carried six-and- 
tweaty men, and consequently big enough to have carried me 
and aU my cargo. 

When I had gone through this work, I was extremely delighted 
with it. The boat was really much bigger than ever I saw a 
canoe or a periagua that was made of one tree, in my life. Many 
a weary stroke it had cost, you may be sure ; and there remained 
nothing but to get it into the water; which, had I accomplished, 
I make no question but I should have begun the maddest voyage, 
and the most imlikely to be performed, that ever was undertaken. 
• But all my devices to get it into the water failed me; though 
they cost me inexpressible labour too. It lay about one hundred 
yards from the water, and not more; but the first inconvenience 
was, it was up hill towards the creek. Well, to take away this 
discouragement, I resolved to dig into the surface of the earth, 
and so make a declivity; this I began, and it cost me a pro- 
digious deal of pains; (but who grudge pains that have their 
deiiverance in view?) when this was worked through, and this 
difficulty managed, it was still much the aame, for I could no 



e,tlie j-^ 
)efore I ^ 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 99 

more stir the canoe than I could the otlierboat. Then I measured 
the distance of ground, and resolved to cut a dock, or caiial, to 
bring the water up to the canoe, seeing I could not bring the 
canoe down to the water. Well, I began this work ; and when 
I began to enter upon it, and calculate how deep it was to be 
dug, how broad, how the stuff was to be thrown out, I found by 
the nomber of hands I had, having none bat my own, that it 
must have been ten or twelve years before I could have gone 
through with it; for the shore lay so high, that at the upper 
end it must have been at least twenty feet deep; this attempt, W< l 
though with great reluctancy, I was at length obliged to give 
over also. - 

This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though too late, 
folly of beginning a work before we count the cost, and before 
we judge rightly of our own strength to go through with it. y 

In the middle of this work, I finished my fourth year in this 
.place, and kept my anniversary with the same devotion, and 
with as much comfort as before; for, by a constant study and 
serious application to the word of God, and by the assistance of 
bis grace, I gained a different knowledg^Ä»m what I had before; 
I entertained different notions of thingsyl looked now upon the 
World as a thing remote, which I had notRiug to do with, no ex- 
pectation from, and, indeed, no desires about: in a word, I had 
nothing to do with it, nor was ever likely to have; I thought it 
looked, as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter, viz. as a place I 
had lived in, but was come out of it ; and well might I say, as father 
Abraham to Dives, " Between me and thee is a great gulf fixed/J 

In the firSTplace, I was here removed from all the wickednes^OT 
the worldvl had neither the lust of the flesb, the lust of the eye, 
nor the prme of life^^J) I had nothing to covet, for I had all that 
I was now capable'menjoying: 1 wa s lord of the whole mano r; 
or, if I pleased, I might call myself ^mg or emperor over the 
whole country which I had possession of ; there were no rivals; I 
had no competitor, none to dispute sovereignty or command 
with me: I might have raised ship-loadings of corn, but 1 had 
no use for it; so I let as little grow as l thought enough for my 
occasion. 1 had tortoise or turtle enough, but now and then 
one was as much as 1 could put to any use ; 1 had timber enough 
to have built a fleet of ships ; and 1 had grapes enough to have 
made wine, or to have cured into raisins, to have loaded that 
lieet when it had been built. 

But all I could make use of was all that was val nable ; I had 
enough to eat and supply my wants, and what was the rest to 
me? If I killed more tiesh than 1 could eat, the dog must eat 
it, or vermin; if I sowed more corn than I could eat, it must be 
spoüed; the trees that I cut down were lying to rot on the 
ground; I could make no more use of them than for fuel, and 
.that I had no other occasion for but to dress my food. 



100 ADVENTÜRES OF 

lu a Word, tlie nature and experience of thicgs dictated to 
me, upon just reflection, that all the good things of this world 
are bi no farther good to us tban for our use; and that whatever 
we may heap up to give others, we enjoy only as much as we 
can use, ana no more. The most covetous griping miser in the 
World wouM have been cured of the vice of covetousness, if he 
had been in my case; for I possessed infinitely more than I knew 
what to do with. I had no room for desire, except it was for 
things which I had not, and they were comparatively but trifles, 
though indeed of great use to me. I had, as I hinted before, a 
parcel of money, as well gold as silver, about thirty-six pounds 
Sterling* Alas! there the nasty, sorry, useless stuff lay: I had 
no manner of business for it; and I often thought within myself, 
^that I would have given a handfiil of it for a gross of tobacco- 
pipes, or for a ha]id-mill to grind my com; nay, I would have 
given it all for sixpenny worth of turnip and carrot seed from 
England, or fOr a handful of peas and beans, and a bottle of ink. 
As it was, I had not the least advantage by it, or benefit from it; 
but there it lay in a drawer, and grew mouldy with the damp of 
the cave in the wet seasons ; and if I had had the drawer fiill of 
diamonds, it had been the same case, — ^they would have been of 
no manner of value to me because of no use. 

I had now brought my state of üfe to be much more com- 
fortable in itself than it was at first, and much easier to my mind, 
as well as to my body. I frequently sat down to meat with 
thankMness, and admired the band of God's providence, which 
had thus spread my table in the wilderness : I leamed to look 
more upon the bright side of my condition, and less upon the 
dark side, and to consider what I enjoyed, rather than what I 
wanted : and this gave me sometimes such secret comforts, that 
I cannot express them ; and which I take notice of here, to put 
those discontented people in mind of it, who cannot enjoy com- 
fortably what God has given them, because they see and covet 
something that he has not given them. All our discontents 
about what we want appeared to me to spring from the want of 
thankMness for what we have. 

Another reflection was of great use to me, and doubtless 
' would be so to any one that should fall into such distress as 
mine was; and this was, to compare my present condition with 
what I at first expected it would be: nay, with what it would 
certainly have been, if the good providence of God had not 
wonderfally ordered the ship to be cast up near to the shore, 
where I not only could come at her, but could bring what I got 
out of her to the shore, for my relief and comfort ; without which, 
I had wanted for tools to work, weapons for defence, and gun- 
powder andjshot for getting my food. 

I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, m representing 
to myself, in the most lively colours, how I must have acted S 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 101 

I had got notliing out of the ship. I could not liave so mnch 
as got any food, except fish and turtles; and that, as it was long 
before I found any of them, I must have perished; that I should 
have lived, if 1. had not perished, like a mere savage ; that if I 
had küled a goat or a fowl, by any contrivance, I had no way 
to flay or open it, or part the flesh from the skin and the bowels, 
or to cut it up, but must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it with 
my claws, like a beast. 

These reflections made me very sensible of the goodness of 
Providence to me, and very thankfiil for my present condition, 
with all its hardships .and misfortunes ; and this part also I cannot 
but recommend to the reflection of those who are apt, in their 
misery, to say, Is any affliction like mine ? Let them consider 
how much worse the cases of some people are, and their case 
might have been, if Providence had thought fit. 

I had another reflection, which assisted me also to comfort my 
mind with hopes ; and this was, comparing my present condition 
with what I had deserved, and had therefore reason to expect 
from the hand of Providence. I had lived a dreadful life, per- 
fectljr destitute of the knowledge and fear of God. I had been 
well instructed by mv father and mother ; neither had they been 
wanting to me, m tneir endeavours to infuse an early religious 
awe of God into my mind, a sense of my duty, and what the 
nature and end of my being re^uired of me. But, alas ! falling 
early into the seafaring life, which, of all lives, is the most desti- 
tute of the fear of God, though his terrors are always before 
them ; I say, falling early into the seafaring life, and into sea- 
faring Company, all that little sense of religion which I had enter- 
tained was laughed out of me by my messmates ; by a hardened 
despising of dangers, and the views of death, which grew habitual 
to me ; by my long absence from all manner of opportunities to 
converse with anything but what was like myself, or to hear 
anything that was good, or tending towards it. 

So void was I of everything that was good, or of the least 
sense of what I was, or was to be, that in the greatest deliver- 
ances I enjoyed (such as my escape from Salee, my being taken 
up by the Portuguese master of a ship, my being planted so well 
in the Brazils, my receiving the cargo from England, and the 
like) I never had once the words, Thank God, so much as on my 
mind, or in my mouth ; nor in the greatest distress had I so 
much as a thought to pray to him, or so much as to say, Lord, 
have mercy upon me ! no, nor to mention the name of God, 
unless it was to swear by, and blaspheme it. 

I had terrible reflections upon my mind for many months, as 1 
have already observed, on account of my wicked and hardened 
life past ; and when I looked about me, and considered what 
particular providences had attended me since my Coming into 
this place, and how God had dealt bountifuUy with me, — ^had not 



102 



ADVENTÜRES OP 



^ 



nly punished me less than my iniquity had deserved, but had 
o plentifully provided for me, — this gave me great hopes that 
y repentance was accepted, and that God had yet mercies in 
tore for me. 

With these reflections I worked my mind up, not only to a 

resignation to the will of G od in the present disposition of my 

ciFcUlIlüLUHBeSTTOr BVÖfl WÄ sincere thankfulness for my con- 

dition ; and that I, who was yet a living man, ought not to com- 

plain, seeing I had not the due pimishment of my sins ; that I 

enjoyed so many mercies which I had no reason to have expected 

in that place, that I ought never more to repine at my condition, 

but to rejoice, and to give daily thanks for'that daily bread, which 

uothing but a crowd of wonders could have brought; that I 

ought to consider I had been fed by a miracle, even as great as 

that of feeding Elijah by ravens ; nay, by a long series of miracles : 

and that I could hardly have named a place in the uninhabitable 

part of the world where I could have been cast more to my 

advantage ; a place where, as I had no society, which was my 

affliction on one band, so I found no ravenous beasts, no fiirious 

1 wolves or tigers, to threaten my life ; no venomous or poisonous 

1 creatures, which I might feed on to my hurt; no savages, to 

Imurder and devour me. In a word, as my life was a life of 

Unrrnw nnft wa.y^ af^ \\ yvRH ft h^p. n\ mercv anotner|^ ano, X wanfecT 

öf Goos gooaness to me, and care over me in t his c o ndition ; 
ancf a ft p f " I -did' iB ^T WTOpro?^ehT5^ 
away,"%id-'wasri]Rrffiore^|ä5:'''^^^^ .,...-»-. «.* 

I had no^b^eMT!e¥^'so long, that many things which I brought 
on shore for my help were either quite gone, or very much 
wasted, and near spent. 

My ink, as I observed, had been gone for some time, all but a 
very little, which I eked out with water, a little and a little, tili 
it was so pale, it scarce left any appearance of black upon the 
paper. As long as it lasted, I made use of it to minute down the 
days of the month on which any reraarkable thing happened to 
me : and, first, by casting up times past, I remember that there 
was a Strange concurrence of days in the various providences 
which befeil me, and which, if I had been superstitiously inclined 
to observe days as fatal or fortunate, I might have had reason to | 
have looked upon with a great deal of curiosity. — J 

First. I had observed, that the sarae day that I broke away 
from my father and my friends, and ran away to HuU, in order 
to go to sea, the same day afterwards I was taken by the Sallee 
man-of-war, and made a slave ; the same day of the year that I 
escaped out of the wreck of the ship in Yarmouth Roads, that 
same day, years afterwards, I made my escape from Sallee in the 
boat : and the same day of the year 1 was born on, viz. the S^itb^ 
of September, that same day I had my life so miraculously savea 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 103 

twenty-six years after, when I was cast on sliore in tMs Island : 7 
so that my wicked life and my solitary life began both on one day. ' 

The next tbing to my ink being wasted, was that x){ my bread, 
I mean the bisciiit which I brought out of tbe sbip : this I had 
hnsbanded to tbe last degree, allowing myself but one cake of 
bread a day for above a year ; and yet I was quite witbout bread 
for near a year before I got any com of my own ; and great 
reason I had to be thankful that I had any at all, the getting it 
being, as has been already observed, next to miraculous. 

My clothes, too, began to decay mightily : as to linen, I had 
none for a great while, except some chequered shirts which I 
found in the chests of the other seamen, and which I carefully 
preserved, because many times I could bear no clothes on but a 
Shirt , and it was a very great help to me that I had, among all 
the men's clothes of the ship, almost three dozen of shirts. There 
were also, indeed, several thick Watchcoats of the seamen's which 
were left, but they were too bot to wear ; and though it is true 
that the weather was so violently bot that there was no need of 
clothes, yet I could not go quite naked, no, though I had been 
inclined to it, which I was not, nor could I abide the thought of 
it, though I was all alone. The reason why I could not go quite 
naked was, I could not bear the heat of the sun so well when 
quite naked as with some clothes on ; nay, the very heat fre- 
quently blistered my skin : whereas, with a shirt on, the air 
itself made some motion, and whistling under the shirt, was two- 
fold cooler than without it. No more could I ever bring myself 
to go out in the heat of the sun without a cap or hat; the heat 
of the sun beating with such violence as it does in that place, 
would give me the headach presently, by darting so directly upon 
my head, without a cap or hat on, so that I could not bear it ; 
whereas, if I put on my hat, it would presently go away. 

Upon these views, I began to considcr about putting the few 
rags I had, which I called clothes, into some order. I had wom 
out all the waistcoats I had, and my business was now to try if 
J could not make jackets out of the great watchcoats that I had 
by me, and with such other materials as I had ; so I set to work 
a tailoring, orrathcr, indeed, a botehing, for I made most piteous 
work of it. llowcver, 1 made shift to make two or three new 
waistcoats, which I hoped would serve me a great while : as for 
breeches, or drawers, 1 made but a very sorry shift indeed, tili 
afterwards. 

I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures 
that I killed, I mean four-footed ones; and I had hung them up, 
stretched out with sticks, in the sun, by which means some ol* 
them were so dry and hard that they were fit for little, but others 
1 found very useful. The first thing I made of these was a great 
cap for my head, with the hair on the outside, to shoot off the 
rain ; and this I performed so well, that after this 1 made me a 



104 ADTENTURES OF 

stiit of dothes wbolly of the skins, that is to say, a waistcoat, 
and breeches, open at the knees, and both loose ; ibr they were 
rather wantmg to keep me cool than warm. I must not omit to 
acknowledge that they were wretchedly made ; for if I was a bad 
carpenter, I was a worse tailor. However, they were such as 1 
made very good shift with ; and when I was abroad, if it hap- 
pened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and cap being uppermost, 
I was kept very dry. 

After this, I spent a gieat deal of time and pains to make me 
an nmbrella : I was mdeed in great want of one, and had a great 
mind to make one : I had seen them made in the Brazils, where 
they were very useful in the great heats which are there ; and I 
feit the heats every jot as great here, and greater too, being 
nearer the equinox :^ besides, as I was obfiged to be much 
abroad, it was a most useful thing to me, as well for the rains as 
the heats. I took a world of pains at it, and was a great while 
before I could make anything likely to hold; nay, after I thought 
I had hit the way, I spoiled two or three before I made one to 
my mind ; but at last I made one that answered indifferently 
well ; the main difficulty I found was to make it to let down: I 
could make it spread, but if it did not let down too, and draw 
in, it was not portable for me any way but just over my head, 
which would not do. However, at last, as I said, I made one 
to answer, and covered it with skins, the hair upwards, so that 
it cast off the rain like a pent-house, and kept off the sun so 
effectually, that I could walk out in the hottest of the weather 
with greater advantage than I could before in the coolest ; and 
when I had no need of it, could close it and carry it under my arm. 

Thus I hved mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely com- 
posed by resigning to the will of God, and throwing myself 
wholly upon the disposal of bis providence. This made my life 
better than sodable ; for when I began to regret the want of 
conversation, I would ask myself, whether thus conversing 
mutually with my own thoughts, and, as I hope I may say, 
with even God himself, by ejaculations, was not better than the 
I utmost enjoyment of human sodety in the world? 




EOfilNäON CEUSOE. 



105 



.rS 



SECTION XY. 



HE MAXES A SMALLER CANOE^ TN WTRCU HE ATTEMPTS TO CRÜI5E 
ROUND THE »ISLAND. — HIS PERILOUS SITUATION AT SEA.^HE 
RETUENS MOME. 

1 CANNOT say that affcer this, for five yeara^ any extraordinär y 

J^Uiing happened to nie, but 1 lived on m tlie same courscr in thß 

ftine posture and place^ jiist as before ; tlie cliier tliings I wa^ 

mployed in, beaidcs my yearly labonT of pknting my barluy 

rand rice, oiid curing my raisins, of both wliicn 1 alw&ys kept up 

juat enoug:h to liave sufficient stock of oiie year's provision 

Deforehand : I say, besides tbis yearly labour, and my daily 

^ursuit of going out witb my «^un, I haJ one labour, to make me 

L canoe^ wbicli at last 1 finishcd ; so that by dig^ging a canal to 

it of six feet wide, and four leet deep, I bronght it into the creek, 

almoat half a mile. As for tlie first, wliich was so vasüy big, as 

, I niade it without considering beforeband, as I ougbt to do, how 

|I sboiild be able to launch it, so, uever being able to bring it 

into the water, or brin^ the water to it, I tv aä obliged to let it 

lie where it was, as a memorandimi to teacb me to be \nscT the 

next time : indeed, the next time, tbough I could not get a tree 

proper for it, and wag in a place where I coidd not get the water 

to it at any less distance tban, as I have said, near half a mile, 

yet as I saw it was practicable at last, I nevcr gave it over; and 

though I was near two yeara abcnit it, yet I never grudged my 

labour, in hopes of having a boat to go off to sea at Ja^t. 

However, though my little periagua was finisbed, vet the size 
of it was not at all answerable to the design whicb I had in view 
when I made the first; l raean, of venturing over to the terra 
ßrmfty where it was above forty miles broad ; accordingly, the 
smallncss of my boat assisted to put an end to that design, and 



106 ADVENTURES OP 

now I thought no more of it. As I had a boat, my next design 
■was to make a cruise round the Island; for as I had beeu on the 
other side in one place, crossing, as I have already described it, 
over the land, so the discoveries I made in that little joumey 
made me very eager to see other parts of the coast ; and now I 
had a boat, I thought of nothing but sailing round the island. 

For this purp ose, tiiat I might do everything with discretion 
and consideration, I fitted up a little mast in my boat, and made 
a sail to it out of some of the pieces of the ship's sails which lay 
in Store, and of which I had a great stock by me. Having fitteä 
my mast and sau, and tried the boat» I found she would sail very 
well : then I made little lookers, or boxes, at each end of my 
boat, to put provisions, necessaries, ammunition, &c. into, to be 
kept dry, either from rain or the spray of the sea ; and a little 
long hollow place I cut in the inside of the boat, where I could 
lay my gun, making a Aap to hang down over it, to keep it dry. 

I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a mast, to 
stand over my head, and keep the heat of the sun off me, like an 
awning ; and thus every now and then took a littje voyage upon 
the sea, but never went far out, nor far from the little creek. 
At last, being eager to view the circumference of my little king- 
dom, I resolved upon my cruise ; and accordingly, I victualled 
my ship for the voyage, putting in two dozen of loaves (cakes I 
should rather call them) of barley bread, an earthen pot fiill of 

Earched rice (afood I ate a great deal of,) a little bottle of rum, 
alf a goat, and powder and shot for killing more, and two large 
watchcoats, of those which, as I mentioned before, I had saved 
oXit of the seamen's chests ; these I took, one to lie upon, and 
the other to cover me in the night. 

It was the sixth of November, in the sixth year of my reign, 
or my captivity, which you please, that I set out on this voyage, 
and I found it much longer than I expected; for though the 
island itself was not very large, yet when I came to the east side 
of it, I found a great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues 
into the sea, some above water, some under it ; and beyond that 
a shoal of sand, lying dry half a league more, so that I was 
obliged to go a great way out to sea to double the point. 

When first I discovered them, I was going to give over my 
enterprise, and come back again, not knowing how far it might 
oblige me to go out to sea, and, above all, doubting how I 
should get back again ; so I came to an anchor ; for I had made 
me a kmd of anchor with a piece of a broken grappüng which I 
got out of the ship. 

Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on shore, 
dimbing up on a hill, which seemed to overlook that point, 
where I saw the füll extent of it, and resolved to venture. 

In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, I per- 
ceived a strong, and indeed a most fiirious current, which ran 



EOBINSON CRUSOE. 



m 



to tbe east, and eveti came close to tLe point; and I took the 
more notice of it, because I saw there might be some danger 
that, wheu I came iiito it, I might be carried out tu sea by the 
streugtb of it, and not be able to make the island again : and, 
indeed, bad I not got first upon tliis hüJ, I bebevc it would bavü 
becn so; t'or tliere was the same curreiit on tbe otber side tbe 
islaud, only tbat it set off at a tkrthcr distance, and I saw there 
was a stroDg eddy imdcr the shore : so I bad notbing to do but 
to get out of tbe first current, and l should presently be in äü 
eddy. 

I lay here, however, two days, because the wind blowin^ 
pretty fresh at E* S. E.» and tbat bein^ just contrary to the said 
«urrent, raade a great hreacb of tbe sea upon the point ; so that 
it was not aafe for nie to keep too close to tbe aborei tor the 
breach, nor to go too far off, because of tbe stream. 

The third day, in tbe morning^, the wind having abated over- 
Dight, the sea was calm, and 1 ventured ; bnt I am a warning- 
piece again to all rasb and ignorant pilots : for no sooner was I 
come to tbe point, when I was not eveu my boat'a lengtb from 
tbe shore, bot I found myself in a great deptb of watei", and a 
current like the sluice of a mill ; k carried my boat along with it 
witb such \iolence, tbat all I coidd do coidd not keep her so 
rauch as on the edge of it; but I found it hurrietl me farther and 
fartber out from the eddy, whicb was on my ieft band, There 
was no wind stirriu^ to hclp me, and all I could do witb my 
paddles si^ified nothtng : and now I began to give myself over 
for lost j für as tbe current was on both stdea of the ialand, I 
knew in a few leagues' distance Ihey muat join again, and tben 
I was irrecoverably g'one; nor did I see any possibility of 
avoiding it; su that I bad no prospect before me but of perish- 
ing, n(jt by the «ea, for that wan calm enough, but of starvlng for 
hunger. I bad indeed found a tortoise on the shore, as big 
nbnost aa I could lift, and bad tossed it into tbe boat; and I had 
a great jar of fresh water, tbat is to say, one of my eartben pots; 
but what was all this to being driven into the vast ocean, wbere, 
to be sure, there was no shore, no main land or island, for a 
tbousand leagues at Icast ? 

And now I saw bow easy it was for tbe providence of God to 
mjike even tbe most miserable condition of mankind worsc. Now 
1 looked back upon my desolate^ solitary island as the nioät 
pleasant place in the world; and all the happiness my heart 
coidd wish for was to be but ibcre again. I stretched out mv 
bands to it, with eager wishes : O bappy desert I said I, I shall 
nevcr aee tbee more. O miserable creature ! whitber am J 
going i Then I reproached myseif witb mv untbankful temper, 
und bow I bad repincd at my solitary concfction ; and now what 
Mould I give to be on sbore there again! Thus we nevcr see the 
ipue State of oup condition tili it ia illußtrated to ua by its coa- 

I 



108 ADVENTURESOF 

traries, nor know how to value wtat we eiijoy, but by tbe want 
of it. It is scarce possible to imagine the consternation I was 
now in, being driven irom my beloved island (for so it appeared 
to me uow to be) into the wide ocean, almost two leagues, and 
in the utmost despair of ever recovering it again. However, I 
«Torked hard, tili indeed my strength was alraost exhausted, and 
kept my boat as much to the northward, that is, towards the 
sioe of the current which the eddy lay on, as possibly I could ; 
when about noon, as the sun passed the meridian, I thought I 
feit a little breeze of wind in my face, sprin^ng up from S.S.E. 
This cheered my heart a little, and especially when, in about 
half an hour more, it blew a pretty gentle gale. By this time I 
was sot at a frightM distance irom the island, and had the least 
doudy or hazy weather intervened, I had been undone another 
way too ; for I had no compass on board, and should never have 
known how to have steered towards the island, if I had but 
once lost sight of it ; but the weather continuing clear, I applied 
myself to get up my mast again, and spread my sail, standmg 
away to the north as much as possible, to get out of the current. 

Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began to 
Stretch away, I saw even by the cleamess of the water some 
alteration of the current was near ; for where the current was 
so strong, the water was foul ; but perceiving the water clear, 
I found the current abate ; and presently I found to the east, at 
about half a mile, a breach of the sea upon some rocks : these 
rocks I found caused the current to part again, and as the main 
stress of it ran away more southerly, Jeaving the rocks to the 
north-east, so the other retumed by the repulse of the rocks, 
and made a strong eddy, which ran back again to the north-west, 
with a very sharp stream. 

They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to them 
upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just going to 
murder them, or who have been in such-like extremities, may 
guess what my present surprise of joy was, and how gladly I put 
my boat into the stream of this eddy ; and the wind also fresh- 
ening, how gladly I spread my sail to it, running cheerfully 
before the wind, and with a strong tide or eddy under foot. 

This eddy carried me about a league in my way back again, 
directly towards the island, but about two leagues more to the 
north ward than the current which carried me away at first : so 
that when I came near the island, I found myself open to the 
northern shore of it, that is to say, the other end of the island, 
opposite to that which I went out irom. 

When I had made something more than a league of way by 
the help of this current or eddy, I found it was spent, and served 
me no farther. However, I found that being between two great 
currents, viz. that on the south side, which had hurried me away, 
and that on the north, which lay about a league on the other 



EQBINSOIf CRÜ^E. 



109 



aide; I say, hetween tlicse two, in the wake of the kland, I 
foiind the water at least Stil!, and ruoning no way j and having 
still a breeze of wind lair for me, 1 kept on steerinfr directly for 
the islaßd, thougli not making such fresh way as I did before. 

Abont four <j'clock in tbe evenifi^, being tben witliin a lea^e 
of tbe Island, I found tbe point of tbe rocks wbicb occasioned 
this disaster stretching out, as ia descnbed bcfore, to the south- 
ward, and mstinoj ofiF the cnrreiit inore southerly, bad, of course, 
made anotber eddy to tbe north; and thia I found very strong", 
but not directly setting the wfkv vay course lay, whicb was due 
west, but almost füll north, However» baving a fresb gale T 
stretcbcd across tbis eddy» slanting north- west ; and, in about an 
boui'j came witbin about a mile of the shorcj wbere, it being 
I smooth water, I soon got to land, 

Wlien I was on sbore, I feil on my knees, and gave God 
tbanks for my deliverancej resolving to lay aside all thoughta of 
niy deliverance by my boat; and refreshing rayself witn such ' 
tbtng^ as J had, J bronght my boat dose to the shore, in a little 
cove that I bad spied iinder some trees, and laid me down to 
sleep, being qiiite sipent witb tbe labonr and fatigue of tbe vo^^age. 

I was now at a great loss whicb way to get home with ray 
boat: I bad mn so rauch hazard, and knew too much of the case^ 
to tbink of attempting it by tbe way I wcnt oiit; and what might 
be at the otber side {I mean the west side) I knew not, nor had 
I any mind to nm any raore ventures ; so I only reaolved in the 
moraing to make my way westward along the sbore, and see if 
tbere ^vas no creek ivhere I might lay up my frigate in safcty, bo 
as to have her again, if 1 wanted her» In about three railes, or 
thereabout, coasting the shore, I came to a Tery good inlet or 
bay, about a mile over, wbicb narrowed tili it came to a very 
little riviüet or brook, wbere I found a very convcnient harbour 
for my boat, and u bere sbc lay as if she bad been in a little dock 
made on purpose for ber Here I put in, and ba\ing stowed 
luy boat very safe^ I went on shore, to look about me, and see 
wbere I was. 

1 fioon found I bad but: a little passed by the place wher« I bad 
l^een before, whcn I travelled on foot to tbat shore j so taking 
\ nothing out of my boat but my gun and umbrella, for it waa 
eitccediiig bot, 1 began my mareb. Tbe way was comfortable 
enougb after such a voyage as I had been upon, and I reached 
my old bower in tbe evening, where 1 found everythiug standing 
as I had Icftit; for I always kept it in good order, being, aa I 
Said before, my country bouse* — ^ 

I got over the fence, and laid me down in the ahade to rest \ 
my limb», for I was very weary, and feil asieep: but judge you, I 
if you can, tbat read my story, what a surprise I must be in, / 
wheii I was awaked out of my sleep by a voice, calling me by f 
myiiftnie sever&l times, llobin, Hobin, Robin Crusoe j poor Robiti I 

12 ■ 



110 ADVENTURES OF 

Crusoe! Wherrtlre you, Robin Crusoe? Where are you? Where 
have you beeni 

I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with rowmg, or 
paddling, as it is called, the first part of the day, and with Walk- 
ing tbe latter part, that I did not wake thorougbly; but dozdng 
between sleeping and waking, thougbt I dreamed that somebody 
spoke to me; but as the voice continued to repeat Robin Crusoe, 
Robin Crusoe, at last I began to wake more perfectly, and was 
at first dreadfully frightened, and started up in the utmost con- 
stemation; but no sooner were my eyes open, but I saw my 
Poll sitting on the top of the hedge; and immediately knew it 
was he that spoke to me: for just in such bemoaning language 
I had used to talk to him, and teach him ; and he had learned it 
so perfectly, that he would sit upon my finger, and lay bis bill 
close to my face, and cry, Poor Robin Crusoe; Where are you? 
Where have you been? How came you here? and such thinga 
OS I had taught him. 

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and that 
indeed it could be nobody eise, it was a good while before I could 
compose myself. First, I was amazed how the creature got 
thither; and then how he should just keep about the place, and 
nowhere eise : but as I was well satisfied it could be nobody but 
honest Poll, I got over it; and holding out my band, and call- 
ing him by bis name, Poll, the sociable creature came to me, 
and sat upon my thumb, as he used to do, and continued talking 
to me, Poor Robin Crusoe! and how did I comehere? and where 
had I been? just as if he had been overjoyed to see me again: 
and so I carried him home along with me. 

I now had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and had 

enough to do for many days to sit still, and to reflect upon the 

danger I had been in. I would have been very glad to have had 

my boat again on my side of the island ; but I knew not how 

it was practicable to get it about. As to the east side of the 

island, which I had gone round, I knew well enough there was 

no venturing that way; my very heart would shrink, and my 

very blood run chill, but to think of it; and as to the other side 

of the island, I did not know how it might be there; but sup- 

posing the current ran with the same force against the shore at 

the east as it passed by it on the other, I might run the same 

risk of being driven down the stream, and carried by the island, 

jas I had been before of being carried away from it; so, with 

Ithese thoughts, I contented myself to be without any boat, 

Jthough it had been the product of so many months* labour to 

Imake it, and of so many more to get it into the sea. 

I In tlis government of my temper I remained near a year, 

llived a very sedate, retired üfe, as you may well suppose; and 

I my thoughts being very much coraposed, as to my conition, 

" and fully comforted in resigning myself to the dispositions of 



BOBINSON CRUSOE. 111 

Providence, I ttought I lived really very happily in all tliings, 
except that of society. 

I improved myseli in tliis time in all the mechanic exercises 
whicli my necessities put me upon applying myself to; and I 
believe l could, upon occasion, bave «Dade a very good carpenter, 
especially considering how few tools 1 had. 

Besides this, I arrived at an mnexpected perfection in my 
earthenware, and eontrived wefl cnoiigl^ to make them with a 
vfheel, which I found infinite]^ easic» aäWtter ; because I made 
tlungs round and shapcable, ivfak4 bcfiore wer« ttth;^ things 
indeed to look f^n. Bot I tliink I was mever more vain of my 
ovm performanee, or more joyllil for i>my ' tlii % I fousd out, than 
for my being able to make a tobacco-pipe; «ad Aougb it was a 
very ugly gtuMi)'^ thing when it was done, and o^f bunied red, 
like otber eaftWnware, yet m it was bard and ihm, and would 
draw tbe sttMte^ I wm esc^edingly comforted witli it, for I bad 
been alwayv «sed l# iMake: and tbere wvre pipes in the sbip, 
but I forgot tliem tlt fffit, ttot thinking that there was tobacco 
in tbe island; and afterwards, when I searched the ship again, 
I could not come at any pipes at alL 

In my wickerware also I iitiproved much, and made abundance 
of necessary baskets, as well as my invention showed me; though 
not vciy handsome, yet tbey were such as were very handy and 
convenient for my laying tlungs up in, or fetching things home. 
For example, if I killed a goat abroad, I could hang it up in a 
tree, flay it, dress it, and cut it in pieces, and bring it home in 
a basket; and the like by a turtle; I could cut it up, take out the 
eggs, and a piece or two of the flesh, which was enough for me, 
and bring them home in a basket, and leave the rest behind me. 
Also large deep baskets were the receivers of my com, which I 
always rubbed out as soon as it was dry, and cured, and kept it 
in great baskets. 

f began now to perceive my powder abated considerably; this 
was a want which it was impossible for me to supply, and I 
began seriously to consider what I must do when I should have 
no more powder, that is to say, how I should do to kill any 
goats. I had, as is observed, in the third year of my being here, 
kept a young kid, and bred her up tarne, and I was in hopes of 
getting a he-goat: but I could not by any means bring it to pass, 
tili my kid grew an old goat; and as I could never find in my 
lieart to kill lier, she died at last of mere age. 




112 




SECTION XVI. 



HE REARS A FLOCK OF GOATS. — ^HIS DAIRY.7-HIS DOMESTIC HABITS 
AND STYLE OF LIVING. — ^INCREASING PROSPERITY. 

Being now in tte eleventh year of my residence, and as 1 have 
Said, my ammunition growing low, I set myself to study some art 
to trap and snare the ^oats, to see whether I could not catch 
some of tbem alive; and particularly, I wanted a she-goat great 
with young. For this purpose, I made snares to hamper them; 
and I do believe they were more than once taken in them : but 
my tackle was not good, for I had no wire, and I always found 
them broken, and my bait devoured. At length I resolved to 
try a pitfall: so I dug several large pits in the earth, in places 
where I had observed the goats used to feed, and over those pits 
I placed hurdles, of my own making too, with a great weight 
lipon them ; and several times I put ears of barley and dry rice, 
without setting the trap ; and I could easily perceive that the 
goats had gone in and eaten up the com, for I could see the 
marks of their feet. At length I set three traps in one night, 
and going the next morning, I found them all Standing, and yet 
the bait eaten and gone. This was very discouraging: however, 
I aitered my traps ; and, not to trouble you with particulars, 
going one morning to see my traps, I found in one of them a 
large old he-goat, and in one of the others three kids, a male 
and two females. 

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him; he was 
so fierce, I durst not go into the pit to him; that is to say, to 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 113 

go about to bring bim away alive, whicb was wbat I wanted ; I 
coald bave killed bim, but tbat was not my business, nor would 
it answer my end; so I even let bim out, and he ran away, as it' 
be bad been fdgbtened out of bis wits. But I had forgot tben, 
wbat I bad learned afterwai-dg^, tijjf^t .lMHls$aP.jyJ&J!!81UB, ji?tiunrH[f 
I bohlet liJÄ''SfS5^ere"three or four days without food, and 
tben bave carried bim some water to drink, and tben a little 
com, be would bave been as tarne as one of tbe kids ; for tbey 
are migbty sagacious, tractable creatures, wbere tbey are well 
used. However, for tbe present I let bim go, knowing no better 
at tbat time : tben I went to tbe tbree kids, and taking them one 
by one, I tied tbem witb strings togetber, and witb some difficulty 
brougbt tbem all bome. 

It was a good wbile before tbey would feed ; but tbrowing 
tbem some sweet com, it tempted tbem, and tbey began to be 
tarne. And now I found tbat if I expected to supply myself witb 
goat*s flesb wben 1 bad no powder or sbot left, breeding some 
up tame was my only way; wben, perbaps, I migbt bave tbem 
about my bouse like a flock of sbeep. But tben it occurr^d to 
me, tbat I must keep tbe tame from tbe wild, or eise tbey would 
always run wild wben tbey grew up ; and tbe only way for tbis 
was, to bave some enclosed piece of ground, well fenced, eitber 
witb bedge or pale, to keep tbem in so effectually, tbat tbose 
witbin migbt not break out, or tbose without break in. 

Tbis was a great undertaking for one pair of bands ; yet as I 
saw there was an absolute necessity for doing it, my first work 
was to find out a proper piece of ground, wbere there was likely 
to be herbage for them to eat, water for tbem to drink, and cover 
to keep them from tbe sun. 

Tbose who understand such inclosures will think I had very 
little contrivance, wben I. pitched upon a place very proper for 
all these (being a piain open piece of meadow land, or savannah, 
as our people call it in tbe western colonies) whicb bad two or 
tbree little drills of fresh water in it, and at one end was very 
Woody ; I say, tbey will smile at my forecast, wben I sball teil 
them, I began my enclosing tbis piece of ground in such a man- 
ner, tbat my bedge or pale must bave been at least two miles 
about. Nor was tbe madness of it so great as to tbe compass, 
for if it was ten miles about, I was like to bave time enough to 
do it in ; but I did not consider that my goats would be as wild 
in so much compass as if tbey had had the whole island, and I 
should bave so much room to chase them in, that I should never 
catch them. 

My bedge was begun and carried on, I believe about fifty 
yards, wben tbis thought occurred to me; so I presently stopped 
Short, and, for the first beginning, I resolved to enclose a piece 
of about one hundred and fifty yards in length, and one hundrekl'^ 
yards in breadth: which, as it would maintain as many as 1 



1 



114 ADVENTÜRES OP 

should have in any reasonable time, so, as my stock increased; 
I could add more ground to my enclosure. 

This was acting with some prudence, and I went to work witli 
courage. I was about three months hedging in the first piece; 
and, tili I had done it, I tethered tlie three kids in the best part 
of it, and used them to feed as near me as possible, to make them 
famüiar; and very often I would go and carry them some ears 
of barley, or a handfiil of rice, and feed them out of my hand: so 
that after my enclosure was finished, and I let them loose, they 
would follow me up and down, bleating after me for a handful 
ofcom. 

This answered my end; and in about a year and a half I had 
a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all; and in two years more, 
I had three and forty, beside several that I took and killed for 
my food. After that I enclosed five several pieces of ground to 
feed them in, with little pens to drive them into, to take them as 
I wanted, and gates out of one piece of ground into another. 

But this was not all; for now 1 not only had goat's flesh to feed 
on when I pleased, but milk too ; a thing which, indeed, in the 
beginning, I did not so much as think of, and which, when it 
came into my thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise; for now 
1 1 set up my dairy, and had sometimes a galion or two of milk in 
a day. And as Nature, who gives supplies of food to every 
creature, dictates even naturally how to make use of it, so I, that 
had never milked a cow, much less a goat, or seen butter or 
cheese made, only when I was a boy, after a great many essays 
and miscarriages, made me both butter and cheese at last, and 
also Salt (though I found it partly made to my hand by the heat 
of the sun upon some of the rocks of the sea), and neyer wanted 
it afterwards. How mercifuUy can our Creator treat his creatures, 
even in those conditions in which they seemed to be overwhelmed 
In destruction ! How can he sweeten the bitterest providences, 
knd give us cause to praise him for dungeons and prisons ! What 
k table was here spread for me in a wilderness, where I saw 
nothiug, at first, but to perish for hunger! ^*^ 

It would have made a stoic smile to have Jeen me and my 
little family sit down to dinner. There wasmy majesty, the 
prince and lord of the whole island; I had the lives of all my 
subjects at my absolute command; 1 could hang, draw, give 
liberty, and take it away; and no rebels among all my subjects. 

Then to see how like a king I dined too, all alone, attended by 
my servants : Poll, as if he had been my favourite, was the only 
person permitted to talk to me. My dog, who was now gro^-n 
very old and crazy, and had found no species to multiply his kind 
lipon, sat always at my right hand ; and two cats, one on one 
side of the table, and one on the other, expecting now and then 
a bit from my hand, as a mark of special favour. 

But these were not the two cats which I brought on shore at 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 115 

first, for they were both of them dead, and had been interred near 
mv habitation by my own band ; but one of them having multi- 
phed by I know not what kind of creature, tbese were two which 
I had preserved tarne; whereas the rest ran wild in the woods, 
andbecame indeed troublesome to meatlast; for they would 
often come into my house, and plunder me too, tili at last I was 
obBged to shoot them, and did kill a great many ; at length they 
left me^ — With this attendance, and in this plentiful manner,^I>. 
livod: neither could I be said to want anythmg but society; aiid^ 
of that^ som e ti me^fter this, I was like to have too m uch. ^^^ 

L was dUliiethlÜ^lLmpatiefil, as 1 kave observed, to fi&ve the use 
ofmy boat, though very loath to run any more hazards; and 
therefore sometimes I sat contriving ways to get her about the 
Island, and at other times I sat myself down contented enough 
wkliout her. But I had a stränge uneasiness in my mind to go 
down to the point of the Island, where, as I have said, in my last 
ramUe, I went up the hill to see how the shore lay, and how the 
cnnmit set, that I might see what I had to do: this inclination 
increased upon me every day, and at length I resolved to travel 
tiiiAer by fand, foDowing the edge of the shore. I did so; but 
had any one in England been to meet such a man as I was, it 
muBt either have frightened him, or raised a great deal of 
lauffhter; and as I frequently stood still to look at myself, I 
coiud not but smile at the notion of my travelling through York- 
Bfaire^ iiith such an equipage, and in such a dress. Be pleased 
to take a sketch of my figure, as foUows. 

I had a great high shapeless cap, made of a goat's skin, with 
a Aap hanging down behind, as well to keep the sun fi-om me as 
to shoot the rain off from running into my neck; nothing being 
so hurtful in these climates as the rain upon the flesh, under 
the clothes. 

I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts Coming down to 
about the middle of the tbighs, and a pair of open-kneed breeches 
of the same; the breeches were made of the skin of an old he- 
goat, whose hair hung down such a length on either side, that, 
like pantaloons, it reacbed to the middle of my legs : stockings 
and shoes I had none, but had made me a pair of somethings, I 
scarce know what to call them, like buskins, to Aap over my legs, 
and lace on either side like spatterdashes, but of a most bar- 
barous shape, as indeed were all the rest ofmy clothes. 

I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I drew 
together with two thongs of the same, instead of buckles ; and 
in a kind of a frog on either side of this, instead of a sword and 
dagger, hung alittle saw and a hatchet ; one on one side, and one 
on the other. I had another belt, not so broad, and fastened in 
the same manner, which hung over my Shoulder; and at the 
cnd of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches, both made of 
goat's skin too : in one of which hung my powder, in the other 



116 ADVENTURES OF 

my shot. At my back I camed my basket, and on my Shoulder 
my gun ; and over my bead a great clumsy ugly goat's skin 
umbrella, but which, after all, was the most necessary tbing I 
had about me, next to my gun. As for my face, tbe colour of it 
was really not so mulatto-like as one migbt expect from a man 
not at all careful of it, and living within nine or ten degrees of 
tbe equinox. My beard I bad once suffered to grow tili it was 
about a quarter of a yard long ; but as 1 bad botb scissars and 
razors sufficient, I bad cut it pretty sbort, except wbat grew on 
my Upper lip, wbicb I bad trimmed into a large pair of Mabometan 
wbiskers, such as I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallee; for 
tbe Moors did not wear such, tbougb tbe Turks did : of these 
mustacbios or wbiskers, I will not say they were long enough 
to hang my hat upon them, but they were of a length and shape 
monstrous enough, and such as, in England, would bave passed 
for frightful. 

But all this is by the bye ; for, as to my figure, I had so few 
to observe me that it was of no manner of consequence; so I say 
no more to that part. In this kind of figure I went my new 
joumey, and was out five or six days. I travelled first along the 
seashore, directly to the place where I first brought my boat to 
an anchor, to get upon the rocks ; and having no boat now to 
take care of, I went over the land, a nearer way, to tbe same 
height that I was upon before ; when looking forward to the 
point of the rocks which lay out, and which I was obliged to 
double with my boat, as is said above, I was surprised to see the 
sea aU smooth and quiet; no rippling, no motion, no current, 
any more than in any other places. I was at'a stränge loss to 
understand this, and resolved to spend some time in the observing 
it, to see if nothing from the sets of the tide had occasioned it ; 
but I was presently convinced how it was, viz. that the tide of 
ebb, setting from the west, and joining with the current of waters 
from some great river on the shore : must be the occasion of this 
current ; and that according as the wind blew more forcibly from 
the west, or from the north, this current came nearer, or went 
farther from the shore : for waiting thereabouts tili evening, I 
went up to the rock again, and then the tide of ebb being made, I 
plainly saw the current again as before, only that it ran farther 
of^ being near half a league from the shore ; whereas, in my case, 
it set close upon the shore, and hurried me and my canoe along 
with it, which, at another time, it would not bave done. 

This Observation convinced me, that I had nothing to do but 
to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the tide, and I might 
very easily bring my boat about the Island again : but when I 
began to think of putting it in practice, I had such a terror upon 
my spirits at the remembrance of the danger I had been in, that 
I could not think of it again with any patience ; but, on the con- 
trary, I took up another resolution, which was more safe^ though 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



117 



more laborious ; and this was, that I wouM build, or rathcr raake 
me anotlier periagua or t-anoe ; and so havc one for oDe aide Ol' 
the Island, and one for the other. 

You are to und erstand, that now I had, as I may caU it, two 
plantalions in the island j one, my Httle Ibrtlfication or tent witli 
the wall about it, uiider the r«>ck^ with the cave behind me, whicb, 
by tliiä time, I had enlarged into aeveral apartnienta or caves, 
one uithin another. One of these, which was the driCiät and 
largest, and bad adoor out heyond my wall or fortilication, that 
' I to SAy, beyond where my wall joined to the rock, was all tiiled 
'iip with the large earthen pots, of whieh I have given an 
accDunt, and with fourteen or lifieen ^reat baskets, which wouJd 
hold five or six. bushels eaeh, where 1 laid up my stores of pro- 
'vißion, especially my corn, some in the ear, cut off ahort from 
the straw, and the other rubbed out with my band, 

Aa for my wall, made, as before, with long stake s or piles, 
tliose pilcs grevT all tike tTces, aiid werc by tbia time grown so 
big, and spread so very much, that there was not the least ap- 
pe^rance, to aay one 's view, of any habitatioii behind them. 

Near this dwcUing of mine, biit a little tarther within the land^ 

and lipon lovrer ground^ lay my two pieces of com land, which 

I kept duly cultivated and sowed, and which duly yielded mc 

[ thcir hangest in its season; and whenever I had occasion for 

tnore conij ! had more land adjoining as fit as that. 

ßesides this, I had ray country seat ; and I had now a tolerable 
plantation there also: for, first, I had my little bowcr, as I called 
it, which I kept in repair ; that is to say^ 1 kept the hedge which 
encircled it in constantiy ßtted np to its nsual height, the ladder 
st&uding ahvays in the inside : I kept the trees, which at firat 
were no more than my stakes, but were now grown very firm and 
tall, always cut so, that they might aprcad and grov^thick and 
[ wild, and make the more agreeahlc sbade, which they did 
cifectually to my mind. In the middle of this I had my tent 
always staudingr, being a piece of a sad spread over pole^, set up 
for that purpoBC, and which nevcr wanted any repair or re- 
newin^ ; and under this 1 had made me a sqnab or couch, with 
the skms of the creiitures I had killed, and with other soft things; 
and a blauket laid on them, such as belonged to nur sea bedding, 
which I had saved, and a great watcb-coat ti> Cover me ; and here, 
whenever I had occaEjion to be ab seat frommy chief seat, 1 took 
up ray country habitatiun, 

Adjoining to this I had my enelosures for my cattle^ that is to 
ksay» my g;oats ^ and as I had takeii an inconceivable deal of painii 
to fence and encloae this ground, I watj so an\:ioua to see it kept 
entire» lest the goats sbould break through, that I never left oft", 
tili» with infinite labour, I had stuck the outsidc of the hedge so 
f\iU of smali stakes, and so near to one anotber, that it wa.^ 
raihcr a palo than a heilge^ and there waa scarce room to put a 



118 ADVENTURESOF 

hand throagli between thein; which afterwards, wlien those 
stakes grew, as they all did in the next rainy season, made the 
enclosure strong like a waU, — indeed, stronger than any wall. 

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that I spared 
no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared necessary for my 
comfortable support ; for I considered tbe keeping up a breed 
of tarne creatures thus at my band would be a living magazine 
of flesb, milk, butter, and cheese for me as long as I Bved in tbe 
place, if it were to be forty years ; and tbat keeping them in my 
reacb depended entirely upon my perfecting my enclosures to 
sucb a degree, that I migbt be sure of keeping tbem together; 
wbicb, by this method, indeed, I so effectually secured, tbat when 
these little stakes began to grow, I had planted them so very 
thick, that I was forced to piül some of them up again. 

In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I principally 
depended on for my winter störe of raisins, and which I never 
failed to preserve very carefuUy, as tbe best and most agreeable 
dainty of my whole diet: and, indeed, they were not only agree- 
able, but medicinal, wholesome, nourislung, and refreshing to 
the last degree. 

As this was also about half-way between my other habitation 
and the place where I had laid up my boat, I generally stayed 
and lay here in my way thlther: for I used frecjuenily to visit my 
boat ; and I kept all things about or belongmg to her, in very 
good Order : sometimes I went out in her to divert myself, but 
no more hazardous voyages would I go, nor scarce ever above 
a stone's cast or two from the shore, I was so apprehensive of 
being hurried out of my knowledge again by the currents or 
winds, or any other accident. But now I come to a new scene 
of my life. 




-"-^i 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



UO 



-m» 



SECTION X\IL 

UlfEXPECIEp ALARM AND CAUSE FOR APPREIiENSION.— HE FORTI- 
FIES HtS ABODE, 

It hnppened one day» about nooii» going' towards my boat, I was 
exceeoingly surprised witli tlie priiit of a nmn'a nakcd toot oii thu 
shore, whicli was very plaiti t« he seen in thc sand. I stood like 
one thimd er Struck, or ab \f I liad seen an apparitionii I listened, 
I looked round mr, bot I could hear uothiii^, iior see anythmg; 
P went up to a rising j^round, to look farlher j I weiit iip tlio 
' shore and down tbe sliorCj bat it was all one ; I could see tm 
other irapression but that one, I w ent to it again to see if therc 
-were any mcire, and to observe ii' it niigbt not be my faücy ; bot 
there was no room tbr tbat, for thcre was exactly tbe print of a 
foot, toes, heel, and evcry part of a foot : bow it came tbitber [ 
knevr not, Bor conld J in ilic least imagine; but, afler innnmer- 
able flottering thougbts, like a man pedbctly conluKcd and out 
of myself, I came bome to my tu rtitication, not feeliug, aä wo 
say, tbe grouud I went on» but tcrritied to tbe last degree; look- 
ing bebind me at every tw o or three stcps, mistaking every busb 
and tree, and fancying every stump at a distancc tu be a man. 
Nor 13 it posaible to describe how niany varinua ahapes my 
affrigbted imagination rcpresentcd things to me in, bow many 
wild idcas were ibimd every monicnt in niy ikocy, and w hat stränge 
unaecountable whimsics came into my tboughts bv tbe way, 

Whcn I came to my Castle (for so 1 tbink l calleu it cver attef 
this), I lled inlo it like one pursned; whether 1 went over by 
the ladder, aü tirst contrived, or went in at ihe hole in tbe rock.. 
¥rbich I bad called a door, I cannot remember ; no, uor coold I re- 



120 ADVENTÜRES OP 

member the next morning ; for never frighteued hare fled to cover, 
or fox to earth with more terror of mind than I to this retreat. 
I slept none that night : the farther I was from the occasion 
of my fright, the greater my apprehensions were; which is 
something contrary to the nature of such thinss, and especially 
to tiie usual practice of all creatures in fear ; out I was so em- 
barrassed with my own frightM ideas of the thing, that I formed 
nothing but dismal imaginations to myself, even though I was 
now a great way off it Sometimes I fancied it must be the 
Devil, and reason joined in with me upon this supposition ; for 
how should any other thing in human shape come mto the place? 
Where was the vessel that brought them? What marks were 
there of any other footsteps ? And how was it possible a man 
should come there? But then to think that Satan should .take 
human shape upon him in such a place, where there could be no 
manner of occasion for it, but to leave the print of bis foot behind 
him, and that even for no purpose too, for he could not be sure 
I should see it, — this was an amusement the other way. I con- 
sidered that the Devil might have found out abundance of other 
ways to have terrified me than this of the single print of a foot ; 
that as I lived quite on the other side of the island, he would 
never have been so simple as to leave a mark in a place where 
it was ten thousand to one whether I should ever see it or not, 
and in the sand too, which the first surge of the sea, upon a high 
' wind, would have defaced entirely : all this seemed inconsistent 
with the thing itself, and with all the notions we usually enter- 
tain of the subtlety of the Devil. 

Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me out of 
all apprehensions of its being the Devil ; and I preseutly cou- 
cluded, then, that it must be some more dangeroiis creature, 
viz. that it must be some of the savages of the main land over 
against me, who had wandered out to sea in their canoes, and, 
either driven by the currents or by contrary \\inds, had made 
the island, and had been on shore, but were gone away again to 
sea; being as loth, perhaps, to have stayed in this desolate 
island as I would have been to have had them. 

While tLese reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was 
very thankful in my thoughts that I was so happy as not to be 
thereabouts at that time, or that they did not see my boat, by 
which they would have concluded that some inhabitants had 
been in the place, and perhaps have searched farther for me : 
then terrible thoughts racked my imagination about their having 
found my boat, and that there were people here ; and that & 
80, I should certainly have them come again in greater num* 
bers, and devour me : that if it should happen so that they 
should not find me, yet they would find my enclosure, destroy 
all my corn, and carry away aU my flock of tame goats, and I 
should perish at last for mere want 




lliiia my fear banished all my reli^oiis hope, all that form er . 
conficlence in Gad, wBicTi was founded üpon auch wonderlul 
cxpcricncejtF? i had had oriiis goodncBs, aH if he that had fed 
rae by miracle liitlierta conld not preseTve, by his power, the | 
pro\ision which he had made for me by bis goodness» I re- ', 
proached myself witb iny laziness, that would not sow any raore 
com one ycar than would just serve me tili Ihe next season, as 
if no ftccident would iutervcne to prevent my cnjoyin^ the crop 
that was upon the ground ; and this I thought so just a reproof, i 
that I reaulved for the tu iure to have two or three years' com 
beforeband, so that, whatever niight come, I might uot perisli 
'^ T want of bread. 

How Strange a cheqiier-work of Providence is the life of man ! 
and by wbat secreC mlfer^t Springs are the aßections humed 
about, as difTerent circumstanees prescnt ! To-day \ve love what 
to-morrow we hate ; to-day we seek what to-iuoiTOw \\e shun ; 
to-day we desire wliat to-morrow we fear, navj eyen tremhle at 
the apprehensioTTs of ; this was exemplified in me, at this time, 
in the most lively mauner ima^nable ; for I, whose only alflic- 
tion was tbat I seemed hanished from human socicty, that J was 
alone, circurascnbed by the houndless ocean, cut off from nian- 
khid, and condemncd to what J calied silent life ; that I was as 
one whom Heaven tbought not worthy to be nurabcred among 
the li\äjig, or to appcar among the rcst of bis creatures ; that to 
have Seen one of my own species would Imve seemed to mc a 
raising me from death to life, and tbe greatest blessing that 
Heaven itself, next to the supreme blessing of salvation, coidd 
bestow ; 1 say, that I sbould now tremble at the very appre- ' 
hensiouB of seeing a man^ nnd was ready to sink into tbe ground\ 
at but tbe shadow ot silcut appearance of a man 's having set ) 
h\B foot in the island. l 

Such is the uneven bMoj nf ]|riimiin Itfe^: and it affbrded me a ^ 
great raany currous speculalions afterwards, when I had a little 
recovered my first snrprise. I considered that this was the 
Station of life tbe infinitcly wise and good providence ofGod had 
deterrained for me ; that as T t^nu ld, ffp t^fii|flfl|ge what Um endp of 
divine wisdom m if^ht gm i^* pH l\\\f^^ rq TTwSflJnf^ti^ff fljifipi^*^^^^ 
fioVÄWKütf, Wö6, asT was his creature, bä3 an imdoubted right, 
to govern and dispose of me absolntely ns he 
fbougbt fit ; and wbo, as I was a creature tbat had offended him, 
jiad ükewijse a judicial right to condemn me to what punishment 
]ic tbought fit ; and tbat it was my part to submit to hear his 
inrfignation, hecause I had sinned against him. I then rcflected, 
tbat as God, wbo was not only righteous, but omnipotent, had 
tbought tit tbuÄ to puni^b and afiiict rae, so he was able to 
deliver me ; tbat if be did not think fit to do so, it waa my 
unquestioned duty to resign myself absolutely and entirely tö 
his will j and| on tbe otber hand, it was my duty also to hope 



A 



122 ADVENTUBES OF 

in him, prav to him, and quietly to attend the dictates and 
directions of bis daily providence. 

These thoughts took me up many bours, days, nay, I may 
say, weeks and months ; and one pardcular effect of my cogita- 
tions on this occasion I cannot omit. One morning early, lying 
in my bed, and filled witb thoughts about my danger from the 
appearances of savages, I found it discomposed me very much ; 
uponwbichthese words of the Scripture came into my thoughts: 

1** Call upon me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and 
thou sbalt glorify me." Upon this, rising cbeerfiilly out of my 
bed, my heart was not only comforted, but I was guided and 
encoüraged to pray earnestly to God for deliverance : when I 
had done praying, I took up my Bible, and opening it to read, 
the first words that presented to me were, " Wait on the Lord, 
and be of good cheer, and he shall strengthen thy heart ; wait, 
I say, on the Lord." It is impossible to express the comfort 
this gave me. In answer, I thankfully laid down the book, and 
*was no more sad, at least on that occasion. 

In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and reflec- 
tions, it came into my thoughts one day, that all this might be a 
mere chimera of my own, and that this foot might be the print 
of my own foot, when I came on shore from my boat : this 
cheered me up a little too, and I began to persuade myself it was 
all a delusion ; that it was nothing eise but my own foot : and 
why might I not come that way from the boat, as well as I was 
going that way to the boat? Again, I considered also, that I 
could by no means teil, for certain, where I had trod, and where 
I had not ; and that if, at last, this was only the print of my own 
foot, I had played the part of those fools, who try to make 
stories of spectres and apparitions, and then are frightened at 
them more than anybody. 

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again, for I 
had not stirred out of my castle for three days and nights, so 
that I began to starve for provisions ; for I had little or nothing 
within doors but some barley cakes and water; then I knew that 
my goats wanted to be milked too, which usually was my 
evening diversion ; and the poor creatures were in great pain 
and inconvenience for want of it : and, indeed, it almost spoiled 
some of them, and almost dried up their milk. Encouraging 
myself, therefore, with the belief that this was nothing but the 
print of one of my own feet, and that I might be truly said to 
Start at my own shadow, I began to go abroad again, and went 
to my country house to milk my flock : but to see with what 
fear I went forward, how often I looked behind me, how I was 
ready, every now and then, to lay down my basket, and run for 
my life, it would have made any one think I was haunted with 
an evil conscience, or that I had been lately most terribly 
frightened ; und so, indeed, I had. Uowever, as I went down 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



133 



tlius two or tliree days^ and having seen nothing'^ I began to be 
4 litüe bolder, and to thiok there was really nothiag^ in it but ray 
own imaginatioii ; but I coxdd not persuade myseU' fuUy of tlüä 
tili I should go down to the shore again, and see this print of a 
foüt» and measure it by ray own, and sgc if there was any simili* 
tudo or fitnesSf that I might be assured it was my own foot : 
but when I came to tlie place, firat, it appearcd evidently to me, 
tbat when I laid up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore 
anywliere tbereabout ; secondly^ when I came to raeasure the 
mark witli my own'fooi, I found my foot not so large by a great 
dföiU Both these thinn^a fiUed my head with new imaginationa, 
Änd iravß me tbe vapoors again to thc hijrhest degrec, so that I 
sliook with cold like one in an ac^ue; and 1 went bonie again, 
lilied with tbe belief tbat some man or raen hiid been on sborc 
there ; or» in short, tbat the island was inhabited, and I raight 
be aurpi-ised before I was aware ; and what course to tak^e for 
Tay Bccurity I knew not 

O what ridiculoas resolntions men take when possessed with 
fear! It deprives thent of the use of those raeans which reason 
oiTers for their relicf. Thc first thing I propogcd to niyaelf was, 
to tJirow down my enclosures, aiid turn alJ my tarne cattle wild 
intü the woods, lest tlie enemy should find theni, and then 
freqiient the island in prospect of the aame or the like booty : 
then to the simple thing of dto^^ng up my two com fields, lest 
they should find such a grain there, and still be prompted to 
frequent tbe island : then lo demolish my bower and tent, that 
they might not see any vestiges of habitation, and be prompted 
to look tarther, in order to find out the persons inhabiting. 

These were the subject of the first night'« cogitations after I 
was come home again, while Ihe apprehenj?ions which had so 
overrun my mind were fresh upon me, and my head was iuU of 
vapours, a>s above. Thus lear of danger is ten thousand times 
roore terrifving than danger itself when apparent to the eyes ; 
and we find the bürden of anxiety greater, by mnch, than the 
cvil which we are aniiious nbout : and, which wag i^ orae than all 
this, I had not thtit relief in this trouble from the resignation I 
used to practiüe, that I hoped to have. J looked, I thought, like 
Saul, who complamed not only that the PhiliKtines were upon j 
bim, but that God had forsaken bim; for 1 did not now take due j 
"ways to compose my mind, by crying to God in my distress, andl 
resting upon his providence, as 1 had done before, for my dcfencel 
and deliverance; which, if 1 had done, 1 had at least been moret 
cheerfully supported under this new surprise, and perhaps 
carried through it with more resolution, 

This confusion of my thoughts kept me awake all night ; but 
in the moming I feil asieep ; and having, by the amusement of 
mj mind, been as it were tired, and my spirits exhaustcd, I alept 
very soiuidly, and waked much better composed than I had ever 



124 ADYEXTURES OF 

been before. And now I began to tbink sedately ; and, upon 
the utmost debate mth myself, I conduded that this Island, 
wliich was so exceeding pleasant, fruitftd, and no farther from 
the main land than as I had seen, was not so entirely abandoned 
as I might imagine ; that although there were no stated inhabi- 
tants who lived on the spot, yet that there might sometimes 
come boats off from the shore, who, either with design, or per- 
haps never but when they were driven by cross winds, might 
come to this place ; that I had lived here fifleen years now, and 
had not met with the least shadow or figure of any people yet ; 
and that if at any time they should be driven here, it was 
probable they went away again as soon as ever they could, 
seeing they had never thought fit to fix here upon any occasion; 
that the most I could suggest any danger from, was from any 
casual accidental landing of straggUng people from the main, 
who, as it was likely, tf they were driven hither, were here 
against their wills, so they made no stay here, but went off again 
with all possible speed ; seldom staying one night on shore, lest 
they should not have the help of the tides and day-light back 
again ; and that, therefore, I had nothmg to do but to consider 
of some safe retreat, in case I should see any savages land upon 
the spot. 

Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave so large 
as to bring a door through again, which door, as I said, came out 
beyond where my fortification joined to the rock : upon maturely 
considering this, therefore, I resolved to draw me a second forti- 
fication, in the same manner of a semicircle, at a distance from 
my wall, just where I had planted a double row of trees about 
twelve years before, of which I made mention : these trees 
having been planted so thick before, they wanted but few piles 
to be driven between them, that they might be thicker and 
stronger, and my wall would be soon finished: so that I had now 
a double wall ; and my outer wall was thickened with pieces of 
timber, old cables, and everything I could think of, to make it 
strong, having in it seven little holes, about as big as I might 
put my arm out at. In the inside of this, I thickened my wall to 
about ten feet thick, with continually bringing earth out of my 
cave, and laying it at the foot of the wall, and Walking upon it; 
and through the seven holes I contrived to plant the muskets, of 
which I took notice that I had got seven on shore out of the ship : 
these I planted like my cannon, and fitted them into frames, 
that held them like a carriage, so that I could fire all the seven 
guns in two minutes' time : this wall I was many a weary 
month in finishing, and yet never thought myself safe tili it was 
done. 

When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my wall, 
for a great length every way, as ftiU with stakes, or sticks, of the 
osier-like wood, which I found so apt to grow, as they could well 



KOBINSOff CRUSOE. 12^ 

stand; inaomuch» tliat T believe I migbt sei in near twenty 
tlioiisand of tliem, Icaving a pretty large Space betweeo them 
and my wall, tliat I mijsjlit havc roora to see an enemyt and they 
roight have no öhelter from tlie yoimg treea, xl' they attempted to 
approach my oiiter waU, 

Thü9, in two years" time, I had a thick grove ; and in five or 
six years' time I had a wood before my dweliingt growing so 
moBatrous tliick and atron^^ that it was indeed perfectly im- 
pasaable; and iio me«, ol" wlmt kind soever, wonld ever imagine 
that there was aoything bcyond it, miicli less a hahitatioti. Aa 
for the way whi^h I prciposed to myself to go in and out (for I 
left CO aveijuej it was by sctting^ two ladders, one to a part of 
the rock i^liich was low, and tlien broke in, and left room to 
phice another ladder lipon that : so when the two ladders were 
taken down, no man Uvinp^ coidd come down to me witiiout doing 
liimself raia^hief; and il' they had come down, they were stiü on 
the outside of ray outcr waiL 

Thiis I took all the measures liuman pnidence could f3iiggest 
for my ovra. preservation ; and it will he seen, at lengthj that 
they were not allogether without jnst reason, though I foreaaw 
Dothinja: at that time more than my mere fear sn^gested to me. 

While this was doing, I was not altogether carcless of my other 
aifairs : for I had a great concern npon me ibr my little herd of 
goats ; they were not only a rcady siipply to me on every occa- 
sion« and hegan to he snflieient for me» withoiit the expense of 
powder and shot, but also without the fatigne of huntin g after 
the wild onea ; and 1 was Icjth to lo^e the ad van tage of them, 
and to have them all to nnrse up over again. 

For this purpose, after long coDsideration, I could think of but 
two ways to preserve them : one was, to find another convenient 
place to dig a cave nnder ground, and to drive theminto it every 
night ; and the oiher was, to enctose two or three little bits of 
land, reraote from one another, and as much concealed as I conld^ 
where I migbt keep ahout half a dozen yonng goats in eadi 
plac^ : so that if any disaster happened to the flock in general, 
I might he able to raise them again with little trouble and time ; 
and this, though it wo nid require a great deal of time and labonr, 
I thought waa the mt^st rational design, 

AccordinglyT I öpent some time to find out the moat retired 
parts of the island ; and I pitched npon one, which was as 
private, indeed, as my heart could wish for : it was a little darap 
piece of ground» in the middle of the hollow and thick woods» 
wher^, as is observed, I almost lost myself once before, endea- 
vouring to come back that way from the eastern part of the 
isbiBd. Here I found a clear piece of land, near three acres, so 
surrounded with woods, that it was almost an enclosure by 
tiature ; at least, it cfid not want near so much labour to make it 
so as the other pieces of ground I had worked so hard at. 

K2 



IM 



ADVENTÜEES OP 




SECTION XVIII. 



W«CAUTIONS AGAINST SÜRPRISE.— -ROBINSON DISCOVERS THAT 
HIS ISLAND HAS B££N VISITED BY CANNIBALS. 

1 1MMI5DIATELY went to work with this piece of ground, and in 
lt^9 than a month's time I had so fenced it round, tbatmy flock, 
ot herd, call it which you please, who were not so wild now as 
«t flrst they might be supposed to be, were well enougb secured 
in it : 80, witbout any furtber delay, I removed ten young sbe- 
tfimts and two he-goats to tbis piece ; and wben tbey were tbere, 
4 continued to perfect tbe fence, tili I had made it as secure as 
th0 otbcr, wbicb, bowever, I did at more leisure, and it took me 
UJ» im>rt> time by a great deal. All tbis labour I was at tbe ex- 
pM^H<9 of purcly from my apprebensions on tbe account of tbe 
ytixki of a man's foot wbicb I bad seen ; for, as yet, I never saw 
any human creature come near tbe Island ; and I had now lived 
two yt>ani under tbis uneasiness, wbicb, indeed, made my life 
n\ucb leM comfortable than it was before, as may be wellima- 
|Kiu<Hl bv any who knows wbat it is to live in tbe constant 
Miaro Ol tbo fear of man. And tbis I must observe, with grief 
tiHS that tbe discomposure of my mind bad too great impressions 
aiao upon tbe religious part of my tboughts : for tbe dread and 
t«»rror of fhlling into tbe hands of savages and cannibals lay so 
ujjoa m Y Hpirits, that I seldom found myseif in a due temper for 
appUoatlon to my Maker, at least not with tbe sedate calmness 
anu reaignation of soul wbicb I was wont to do : I rather prayed 
to ()od ai under great affliction and pressure of mind, surrounded 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



127 



Vfiih diing:er» and in expectation every night of being murdercd 
and devoured before moming ; and I must teatify from ray cx- 
perience» tliat a temper of pcacc, tlinnkfulnesaj love and affection» 
is much the raore proper frame for prayer than that of terror 
and discomposure ; and that under the dread of mi&chief im- 
pendingj a man is no more fit for a comforting Performance of 
the duty of praying to God, than he is for a repentance on a Bick- 
bed ; for thene discoraposurcs afiect the mindj as the others do 
the body ; and the discomposure of the mind must necessarily 
be as great a disability as that of the body, and much grcater : 
praying to God being properly au act of the mind, not üf the 
Dody, 

But to ^o on : after I had thus secured one part of my little 

Üving stock, I went about the wbole ishind, searching for anotlier 

private place to make such another deposit j when, wandcring 

more to the west point of the isJand than 1 had ever done yet, 

and lookiüg out to sea, I tliought I saw a boat upon the sea, at 

-ü great distance, I had found a perspective glass or two in one 

[of the seamen's chests, ivhich I saved out of our ship, but I had 

feit not about me ; and ihis was so remotc, that I could not teil 

Itrliat to make of it^ tbongh 1 looked at it tili my eyea were not 

able to hold to look anv longer : whether it was a boat or not, 

1 do not know, but as f dcsceiided frora the hill I coidd see no 

more of it ; so I gave it ovcr ; onty I resülvcd to go no more out 

Iwithout a perspective glass in my pocket. Wlien I was como 

down the hill to the end of the inlantl, wbere, indeed, I hadnevcr 

been before, I was presently convinced that the seeing the print 

of a man 's foot was not such a stränge thing in the island aa I 

Limagined : and, but that it was a special providence that 1 waa 

' cast upon the side of the island where the ^avages never came, I 

flboula easily have known that nothing was more frequent than 

for the canoes from the main, when they happcned to be a little 

too far out at sea, to shoot over to that side of the Island for 

I liarhour : likewiae, as they often met and fought in their canoes, 

the Victors, having taken any prisoners, would bring them oyer 

to this iihore, where, accortling to their dreadful custoras, being 

aU ciinnibals, they would kill and eat them; of which hereafter. 

Wheo I was come down the hill to the shore, as 1 said above, 

being the south-west point of the isUnd, l was perfectly con- 

founded and amazed ; nor is it possible for me to express the 

horror of my mind, at aeeing the shorc spread with skuMs, hands, 

pfeet, and other bones of human bodies; aod^ partieularly, 1 

^obaerved a place whcre thcrc had been a fire made^ and a circte 

1» dttg in the earth, like a cockpit^ whcre I supposed the savage 

vretches had sat down to their inhuman feastingü upon the 

'badüea of their fellow-creaturea. 

I was so astonished with the sight of these thinga, that I enter- 
tftined no nodons of any danger to myself from it for a long 



128 ADVENTURES OF 

while : all my apprehensions were buried in the thouglits of 
such a pitch of iiihiiman, hellisli brutality, and the horror of the 
degeneracv of human nature, which, though I had heard of it 
often, yet I never had so near a view of before : in short, I tumed 
away my face from the horrid spectacle ; my stomach grew sick, 
and I was just at the point of fainting, when nature discharged 
the disorder from my stomach: and having vomited with uncom- 
mon Tiolence, I was a little relieved, but could not bear to stay 
in the place a moment; so I got me up the hill again with 
all the speed I could, and walked on towards my own habitation. 
When I came a little out of that part of the Island, I stood 
still awhile, as amazed, and then recovering myself, I looked up 
with the utmost affection of my soul, and, with a flood of tears 
in my eyes, gave God thanks, that had cast my first lot in a part 
of the World where I was distinguished from such dreadfiil 
creatures as these ; and that, though I had esteemed my present 
condition very miserable, had yet given me so many comforts in 
it, that I had still more to give thanks for than to complain of : 
and this, above all, that I had, even in this miserable condition, 
been comforted with the knowledge of Himself, and the hope of 
His blessing, which was a felicity more than sufficiently equi- 

tvalent to all the misery which I had suffered or could suffer. 
In this frame of Üiankfulness, I went home to my Castle, and 
began to be much easier now, as to the safety of my circum- 
stances, than ever I was before: for I observed that these 
wretches never came to this Island in search of what they could 
get ; perhaps not seeking, not wanting, or not expecting, any- 
thing here, and having oKen, no doubt, been up in the covered 
Woody part of it, without finding any thing to their purpose. I 
knew I had been here now almost eighteen years, and never saw 
the least footsteps of human creature there before; and I might 
be eighteen years more as entirely concealed as I was now, if I 
did not discover myself to them, which I had no manner of occa- 
sion to do ; it being my only business to keep myself entirely 
concealed where I was, imless I found a better sort of creatures 
than cannibals to make myself known to. Yet I entertained 
such an abhorrence of the savage wretches that I have been 
speaking of, and of the wretched inhuman custom of their 
devouring and eating one another up, that I continued pensive 
and sad, and kept close within my own circle, for ahnost two 
years after this ; when I say my own circle, I mean by it my 
three plantations, viz. my Castle, my country seat, which I called 
my bower, and my endosure in the woods : nor did I look after 
this for any other use than as an enclosure for my goats ; for 
the aversion whibh nature gave me to these hellish wretches was 
such, that I was as fearful of seeing them as of seeing the Devil 
himself. I did not so much as go to look after my boat all this 
time, but began rather to think of making me another; for I 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



129" 



I 



couid not think of ever mrtking any more attempts to bring the 
otlier boat round tlie Island to me, lest I sLoald meet with some 
of tliese creatures at sea : m ivliich if I bjid happened to have 
lallen into their band5,I knew wbat would have been my lot 

Time, ho w ever, and tbe satisfkction I bad tbat I was in no 
danger of being discovcrcd bj these people, began to wear ofl' 
my uneasiiiess aboiit tbem; and I bej^an to live just in tlie same 
composed manner as beibrcj only uitli this dÜTerence, tbat I used 
more caotitm, andkeptmy eyes more abuut me, tban I did before, 
lest I shüuld bappen to he secn by any of them ; and pariicularly, 
I was more cautious of firing my ^in, lest any of them beiiig on 
the Island alioidd happeo to hear it, It Avas tberetore a very 
good provideuce to me tbat I had ftirnished mysclf with a tarne 
breed of goats^ and tbat I had no necd to bunt any more abont 
the woods, or ahoot at thera; and if I did cateh aiiy of tbem after 
this, it was by traps and siiares, as I had done before: so tbat 
for two years after this, I beiieve I never tired my gun once otf, 
thougb I never went ont witbont it; and, which was more, as I 
had saved three pistols ont of tbe ahip, I alwayä carried them ont 
M itb me, or at least two of them, stieking them in my goats-iäkin 
belt. J also furbisbed up one of the grcat cutlasses tbat I had 
out of the shipj and niade mc a bclt to hang it on also; so tbat 
I was now a most formidable fellow to look at when I went 
abroad, if you add to the foroier deacription of mysclf, the par- 
ticuiar of two pistols, and a great broadsword banging at my 
side in a beltj but witbout a scabbard. 

Things going on thus, aa I have said, for aome time, I seemed, 
excepting these cautions, to be rednced lo my former calm sedate 
"way of bving. All these tbings teiided to sbow nie, more and 
morCi bowfar my coiidititm was from being miserable, compared 
to some others; nay, to many otlier particulare of life, which it 
jnight have pleased God to have made my lot. It pnt me npon 
reflectiüg how little repining there would be among manl< " 
any condition of life, if people wonid rather coinpare 
dition with tboae tbat were worse, in order to be tbank 
be always comparing them with those which are better, 
their murmiLrings and coraplainings, 

Aa in my present condition tliere were not really many tiiings 
which I Wimted, so, indeed, I tboiiglit tbat tbe friglit^ I had been 
in about these savage wretches, and the concern I bad been in 
for my own preservationj had taken off" the edge of my invetition 
for my own convcniences ; and I bad dropped a good de sign, 
which I had once bent my thougbts too much npon, and that 
was, to try if I could not make some of my barley into malt» and 
then try to brew myself some beer. This was really a wbimsical 
thought^ and I reproved myaelf otlen for the simplicity of it ; for 
I prescntly saw there would be the wiint of several things nejces- 
ftuy to the making my beer, that it would be impossibk for me 




130 ADVENTURES OF 

to supply ; as, first, casks to preserve it in, which was a thing 
that, as I had observed already, I could never compass; no, 
though I spent not only many days, but weeks, nay, months, 
in attempting it, but to no pnrpose. In the next place, I had no 
hops to make it keep, no yeast to make it work, no copper or 
kettle to make it boil; and yet, with all these things wandng, I 
verily believe, had not the frights and terrors I was in about the 
savages intervened, I had undertaken it, and perhaps brought it 
to pass too ; for I seldom gave anything over without accom- 
plishing it, when once I had it in my head to begin it. But my 
invention now ran quite another way ; for, night and day, I could 
think of nothing but how I might destroy some of these monsters 
in their cruel, bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save the 
yictim they should bring hither to destroy. It would take up a 
larger volume than this whole work is intended to be, to set down 
all the contrivances I hatched, or rather brooded upon, in my 
thouehts, for the destroying these creatures, or at least frighten- 
in^ wem so as to prevent their Coming hither any more ; but all 
this was abortive ; nothing could be possible to take effect, un- 
less I was to be there to do it myself ; and what could one man 
do among them, when perhaps tnere might be twenty or thirty 
of them together, with their darts, or their bows and arrows, 
with which they could shoot as true to a mark as I could with my 
gun? 

Sometimes I thought of digging a hole under the place where 
they made their fire, and putting in five or six pounds of gun- 
powder, which, when they kindled their fire, would consequently 
take fire, and blow up all that was near it ; but as, in the first 
place, I should be unwilling to waste so mucb powder upon them, 
my Store being now within the quantity of one barrel, so neither 
could I be sure of its going off at any certain time, when it might 
surprise them : and, at best, that it would do little more than 
just blow the fire about their ears and Mght them, but not 
sufficient ^to make them forsake the place : so I laid it aside ; 
and then proposed that I would place mvself in ambush in some 
convenient place, with my three guns all double-loaded, and, in 
the middle of their bloody ceremony, let fly at them, when I 
should be sure to kill or woimd perhaps two or three at every 
shot : and then falling in upon them with my three pistols, and 
my sword, I made no doubt but that if there were twenty I 
should kill them all. This fancy pleased my thoughts for some 
weeks ; and I was so füll of it, that I often dreamed of it, and 
sometimes that I was just going to let fly at them in my sleep, I 
went so far with it in my Imagination, that I employed myself 
several days to find out proper places to put myself in ambus- 
cade, as I said, to watch for them ; and I went frequently to the 
place itself, which was now grown more familiär to me: but 
while my mind was thus filled with thoughts of revenge, and a 



I 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, IH 

Woody putting twenty or thirty cf tliem to tlie STvord, as I may 
call it', the borror I liad at tlie pkce^ and at the si^nals of thö 
barbaroua wretches dcvouring onc ancjther, abettcd my nialice. 
Well, at length, I found a place in the side of the hill, where I 
was satiafied I might securely wait tili I saw any of their boata 
Coming; and mi^ht then, even before tliey woidd be ready t« 
come on sbore, convey myself, unseen, inlo some tMcketa oftrccs» 
in oue of whit'h tbere was a ho] low large enough to concea) nie 
entirely ; and there I mig^ht sit and ohserve all their bloody doings, 
and take my füll aim at their heads, when they were so cloae 
together, as tbatit would he next to irapossible that I shoiild misa 
my ahot^ or that I coidd fail woimdiiig three or four of tliem at 
the firfit Khot. In this place, theu, I resolved to fix my desi^ii ; 
and, accordinglyj I prepared two muskets and my ordinary fb\il- 
ingpiece. Tbc two mnskcts I loadcd with a hrace of slup eacL, 
and four or five smaller hullets, ahout the size of pistol-builets ; 
and the fowlin^iece I loadeti with neiiT a handiul of swan-abot, 
of tlxe larü^cBt aize : I also loaded niy pistols witli about Ibitr 
ballets eat'b ; and in tliis posture, well pruvided with aminimitiou 
fOTÄ second and tliird vhnry^(^y 1 prepared myself ftjr my expeditioij. 

After I bad tbug laid the schcme of my desicrD, and, in my 
imagloationf put it in practice, I continunliy made my tonr every 
morning up to the top of the bill» wbick was frora my Castle, aa 
I called it| abont tbree miles, or more, to aee if I coüld observe 
any boats upon the sea* comiag near the island, or standing over 
towards it : bot I began to tire of tliis bard duty, after I liad^ 
for two or tbree montbs, cooatantly kept my watch, but came 
always back without any discovery : tbere liaving not, in all that 
time, been the least appearance, not only on or near the shorc, 
but on the wbole ocean, so far as my eye 3 or glasses could reacli 
every way. 

As long as I kept my daily tour to the bill to look out, so long 
also I kept up tlie vigour of ray design» and my spirits seemed 
to be all the while in a suitable form for so outragcous an execu- 
tion as the killing twenty or thirty naked 9 avages, for an offcnce, 
which I bad not at all entored into a discussion of in my tboughts, 
any further than ray paHsious were at firat fired by tbe borror I 
conceived at the nnnatural custom of the people of tbat country ; 
"who, it aeems, bad heeo aiiifered by Proviiiimce, in bis wise dis-\ 
Position of tbe world, to bave no other guide tban that of their 
own abominable and vitiated passions ; and, corisequeiitly, were 
Icft» and perhapa bad bcen ho for some agcj?, to act such honrid 
things, and receive such dreadful cvistoms, as notbing but natnre, 
entirely abandoned by Ileaven, and actuated hy aomo bellisb 
degeoeracy, could bave run ihtan into» But now, when, aa I 
bave Said, I begao to be weary ctf tbe fruitlcss excursion, wbicli 
I bad made ho long and so far every morning in vain, so my 
opinian of tbe action itsclf began to alter; and 1 begaOi witli 



132 ADVENTÜRES OF 

cooler and calmer thoughts, to consider what I was going to eii- 
gage in : what authority or call I had to pretend to be judge and 
executioner upon these men as criminals, whom Heaven had 
thought fit, for so many ages, to suffer, unpuuished, to go on, 
and to be, as it were, the executioners of bis judgmehts one 
upon anotber. How far tbese people were offenders against me, 
and wbat r^bt I bad to engage in tbe quarrel of tbat blood wbicb 
tbey sbed promiscuously one upon anotber, I debated tbis very 
often witb myself, tbus: How do I know wbat God bimself 
judges in tbis particular case? It is certain tbese people do not 
commit tbis as a crime ; it is not against tbeir own consciences 
reproving, or tbeir ligbt reproacbing them ; tbey do not know it 
to be an offence, and tben commit it in defiance of divine justice, 
as we do in almost all tbe sins we commit. Tbey tbink it no more 
a crime to kill a captive taken in war, tban we do to kill an ox ; 
nor to eat buman flesb, tban we do to eat mutton. 

Wben I considered tbis a little, it foUowed necessarily tbat I 
was certainly in tbe wrong in it ; tbat tbese people were not 
murderers in tbe sense tbat I bad before condemned tbem in niy 
tbougbts, any more tban tbose Christians were murderers wbo 
often put to deatb tbe prisoners taken in battle; or more fre- 
quently, upon many occasions, put wbole troops of men to tbe 
sword, witbout giving quarter, tbougb tbey threw down tbeir 
arms and submitted. In tbe next place, it occurred to me, tbat 
altbougb tbe usage tbey gave one anotber was tbus brutish and 
inbuman, yet it was really notbing to me ; tbese people bad done 
me no injury : tbat if tbey attempted me, or I saw it necessary, 
for my immediate preservation, to fall upon tbem, sometbing 
knigbt be said for it ; but tbat I was yet out of tbeir power, and 
tbey really bad no knowledge of me, and consequently no design 
upon me ; and tberefore it could not be just for me to fall upon 
tbem : tbat tbis would justify tbe conduct of tbe Spaniards in all 
tbeir barbarities practised m America, wbere tbey destroyed 
millions of tbese people : wbo, bowever tbey were idolaters and 
barbarians, and bad several bloody and barbarous rites in tbeir 
customs, sucb as sacrificing buman bodies to tbeir idols, were 
yet, as to tbe Spaniards, very innocent people ; and tbat tbe 
rooting tbem out of tbe country is spoken of witb tbe utmost 
abborrence and detestation by even tbe Spaniards tbemselves at 
tbis time, and by all otber Christian nations in Europe, as a mere 
butcbery, a bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty, imjustifiable 
eitber to God or man, and for wbicb tbe very name of a Spaniard 
is reckoned to be frigbtftil and terrible to all people of bumanity, 
or of Christian compassion, — as if tbe kingdom of Spain were 
particularly eminent for tbe produce of a race of men wbo were 
witbout principles of tendemess, or tbe common bowels of pity 
to tbe miserable, wbicb is reckoned to be a mark of generous 
temper in tbe mind. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 133 

These considerations really put me to a pause, and to a kind 
of a lull stop ; and I began, by little and little, to be offmy design, 
and to conclude I had taken wrong measures in my resolution 
to attack the savages; and that it was not my business to med- 
die with them, unless they first attacked me ; and that it was 
my business, if possible, to prevent ; but that if I were discovered 
and attacked by them, I knew my duty. On the other band, I 
ai^ed with myself, that this really was the way not to deliver 
myself, but entirely to ruin and destroy myself; ibr unless I was 
sure to kill every one that not only should be on shore at 
that time, but that should ever come on shore afterwards, if but 
one of them escaped to teil their country-people what had hap- 
pened, they would come over again by thousands to revenge the 
death of their fellows, and I should only bring upon myself a 
certain destructiou, which, at present, I had no manner of 
occasion for. Upon the whole, I concluded, that neither in 
principle nor in policy I ought, one way or other, to concem 
myself in this affair : that my business was, by all possible means, 
to conceal myself from them, and not to leave the least signal 
to them to guess by that there were any living creatures upon 
the Island, I mean of human shape. Religion joined in with this 
prudential resolution, and I was convinced now, many ways, 
that I was perfectly out of my duty when I was laying all my 
bloody schemes for the destruction of innocent creatures, I mean 
innocent as to me. As to the crimes they were guilty of towards 
one another, I had nothing to do with them; they were national, 
and I ought to leave them to the justice of God, who is the 
governor of nations, and knows how, by national punishments, 
to make a just retribution for national offences, and to bring 
public judgments upon those who oflfend in a public manner, by 
such ways as best please him. This appeared so clear to me 
now, that nothing was a greater satisfaction to ihe than that I 
had not been suffered to do a thing which I now saw so much 
reason to believe would have been no less a sin than that of 
wiliul murder, if I had committed it ; and I gave most humble 
thanks on my knees to God, that had thus delivered me from 
blood-guiltiness ; beseeching him to grant me the protection oi 
his providence, that I might not fall into the hands of the bar- 
barians, or that I might not lay my hands upon them, unless I 
had a more clear call from Heaven to du it, in defence of my 
own life. 




134 




-.e^3 



SECTION XIX. 

ROBINSON DISCOVERS A CAVE, WHICH SERVES HIM AS A RETREAT 
AGAINST THE SAVAGES. 

In this disposition I continued for near a year after this ; and 
so far was J from desiring an occasion for falling upon these 
wretches, that in all that time I never once went up the hill to 
See whetlier there were any of themin sight, or to know whether 
any of them had been on shore there or not, that I might not be 
tempted to renew any of my contrivances against them, or be 
provoked, by any advantage "which might present itself, to fall 
upon them : only this I did, I went and removed my boat, which 
I had on the other side of the Island, and carried it down to the 
east end of the whole Island, where I ran it into a little cove, 
which I found under some high rocks, and where I knew, by 
reason of the currents, the savages durst not, at least would not, 
come with their boats, upon any account whatever. With my 
boat I carried away every thing that I had left there belonging 
to her, though not necessary for the bare going thither, viz. a 
mast and sail which I had made for her, and a thing like an 
anchor, but which, indeed, could not be called either anchor or 
grapnel ; however, it was the best I could make of its kind : all 
these I removed, that there might not be the leasl shadow of 
any discovery, or any appearance of any boat, or of any human 
habitation, upon the Island. Besides this, I kept myself, as I 
Said, more renred than ever, and seldom went from my cell, other 
than upon my constant employment, viz. to milk my she-goats, 
and manage my little flock in the wood, which, as it was quite 
on the other part of the Island, was quite out of danger; for 
certain it is, that these savage people, who sometimes haunted 
this island, never came with any thoughts of finding any thing 



EÖBmSON CRUSOE. 



135 



liere, and conaequently never waiideretl off from the coast; And 

I doubt not but tbey miglit liave been seveml times oa shortj 

after my apprehensions of tbem had made me cautious, iis well 

as bcfore. Iiideed, I looked back witli some borror upon the 

thoughta of wbat ray condition would bave been if l had popped 

\ upon tbem and been discoveretl before that, wheii, naked and 

iinarmed, except witb one giin^ and that loaded often rmly witb 

small shot, I walked everywhere, peeping and peering' about the 

Island to sce wbat I could get; what a surpHse shonld I bavo 

been in, if, ii'ben I discovered ihe print of a man'a foot, l had, 

inatead of that, seen fifteen or twenty savages, and fouiid tbem 

piiraiiing me, and by tbe swiftnesa of tbeir running^, no possibi- 

lity of my escaping tbem? Tbe tlioughts of this sometimea snnk 

mj very soiil Avdtbm me» and distreüscd my mind so mudiT that 

I coidd not aoon recover it, to think wbat I sbould have done, 

and how I ahould not only bave been iinable to reaist tht'm, but 

cvea sbould not bave bad presence of mind enough to tio wbat 

, I injght bave done, much less what novv, after so much con- 

I sideration and preparation, I might be able to do, Indeed, afler 

Berions thinking on these things, I would be very melaucboly, 

and sometiraes it would List a great while; but I resolved it all, 

at last, into tbankfulness to that Frovidenc e wbirh }^^ ^ I ^HvpjjtJ 

me firoffl so manv u^is'^P" 4g^Q£3/ana hau Rept irotn me those 

iniBÖfflBfS^ffKIcS 1 could bave no way been the ngent in deliver- 

ling myself from, because I had not the leaat notion of any auch 

tMng depending, or the least supposition of its bcing posaible. 

This renewed a contcmpiation ^hich oflen had corne to my 

thougbta in former timc^when first 1 bcgan to see tbe merciful 

■ disppaitiona of Heaven, TWtbe dangera we rtui tbrougb in tbis 

I lileVjiow wonderfnlly we are delivered wheu we know nothing 

oftlf; hoWj when we are in (a quandary, as we call it) a doubt 

pT besitation, whether to go this way, or that way, a secret bint 

shall direct usthis way, whenwe intended to gothat way: nay, 

when senae, our own incbnation, and pcrbaps businesa, haa 

called to go tbe otber way^ yet a stränge impressiou upon the 

Imind, from we know not what Springs, and by we know not what 

1 power, shali overnde ua to go this way; and it sball afterwards 

appear, that had we gone that way whicb we sbould bave gone, 

and even to our imagination onght to have gone, we ahould bave 

been rnined and lost. Upon these, and many like reflectiona, ] 

afterwards made it a certain rule witb me, that whenever I fomid 

those secret hints or preasinga of mind, to doing or not doing 

any thing tbat presented» or going this wav or that way, I never 

faijed to obey tbe secret dictate; tbougb I knew no otber reaijon 

jfor it than that tnch a pressure, or such a hint, hung upon niy 

Einind. I could give many cxamples of the soocess of this con- 

Iduct in the course of my lifc, but more especially in tbe latter 

'part ofiiiyinhabiting thia unbappy island; bcsides manyoccasions 



136 ADVENTÜRia OF 

which it is very likely I might have taken notice of, if I had seen 
with the same eyes then that I see with now. But it is never too 
late to be wise; and I cannot but advise all considering men, 
whose lives are attended with such extraordinary incidents as 
mine, or even though not so extraordinary, not to slight such 
secret intimations of Providence, let them come firom what in- 
visible intelligence they will. That I shall not discuss, and per- 
haps cannot account for; but certainly they are a proof of the 
conVerse of spirits, and a secret commuuication between those 
embodied and those unembodied, and such a proof as can never 
be withstood; of which I shall have occasion to give some very 
remarkable instances in the remainder of my soUtary residence 
in this dismal place. 

I believe the reader of this will not think it stränge if I con- 
fess that these anxieties, these constant d^ngers I lived in, and 
the concem that was now upon me, put an end to all invention, 
and to all the contrivances that I had laid for my fiiture accom- 
modations and conveniences. I had the care of my sajQsty more 
now upon my hands than that of my food. I cared not to drive 
a nail, or chop a stick of wood now, for fear the noise I might 
make should be heard ; much less would I fire a gun, for the 
same reason : and, above all, I was intolerably uneasy at making 
any fire, lest the smoke, which is visible at a great distance in 
the day, should betray me. For this reason I removed that part 
of my business which required fire, such as buming of pots and 
pipes, &c. into mjr new apartment in the woods ; where, after 
I had been some time, I found, to my unspeakable consolation, 
a mere natural cave in the earth, which went in a vast way, and 
where, I dare say, no savage, had he been at the mouth of it, 
would be so hardy as to venture in: nor, indeed, would any 
man eise, but one wljo, like me, wanted nothing so much as a 
safe retreat. 

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great rock, 
where by mere accident (I would say, if I did not see abundant 
reason to ascribe all such things now to Providence) I was 
cutting down some thick branches of trees to make charcoal ; 
and, before I go on, I must observe the reason of my making 
this charcoal, which was thus : I was afraid of making a smoke 
about my habitation, as I said before ; and yet I could not live 
there without baking my bread, cooking my meat, &c. ; so I con- 
trived to burn some wood here, as I had seen done in England, 
under turf, tili it became chark, or dry coal : and then putting 
the fire out, I preserved the coal to carry home, and perform the 
other Services for which fire was wanting, without danger of 
smoke. But this is by the by. While I was cutting down some 
wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick brauch of low 
brushwood, or underwood, there was a kind of hollow place : I 
was curious to look in it, and getting with difficulty into the mouth 



KOSIKSON CRUSOE. 1S7 

of it, I found it was prettylarge : tliat is to say, sufficient foT me 
to stand iipright in it, and perhaps another with me : but I muat 
confess to you that 1 made more haste out than I did in, wlien, 
looking larther iiito tbe place, and whicli was perfectly darlc, 1 
aaw two broad shiuing eyes of some creature, whether devil or 
mau I knew not, wbich twinkled likc two Stars, tbe dim light 
from tbe cave's moiith sJiining directly in, and makiüg tbe re- 
flectiou. However» atter aome panse, I recoYered myself, and 
bcgan to call myself a tliousand Ibols, and to tliink, tbat be tliat 
was afraid to see tbe dcvü was not üt to live twenty years in an 
Island all alone; and tliat I might well thiok tierc was notbing 
in tbis cave tliat wan morc Irigbtfiil tban myselil Upon thia, 
plucking 11 p my couragc, 1 took iip a lirebrand» and in I msbed 
again, with tbe stick flaming in my band : 1 bad not gone tliree 
Steps in» but I was abnost as mucb frigbtened as I was bef'orc; 
for I heard a very loud sigb, like tbat of a man in some pain, 
and it was foUowed by a broken noise, as of words balf expressed, 
and tben a deep sigli again, I stepped back, and was indeed 
strack witb Bueb a Hurprise, tbat it put me into a cold sweat; 
and if I bad bad a bat on my bead, I wül not answer for it, tbat 
my hair migbt not bave lifted it off. But still plucking up my 
spirits as well as I could, and encouraging myself a Uttle with 
considering tbat tbe power and presence of Gotf was cvery wbere, 
and was able to protect me, upon tbia I stepped forward again, 
and by tlie light of tbe firebraiul, holding it np a little over my 
head, I saw lying on tbe ground a most raongtroius, frigbtful, old 
Be-goat, just making bis will, as w e say, and gasping for life, and 
dying, indeed» of mere old age* I stirred bim a little to see if I 
could get him out, and be essayed to get up, but was not able 
to raise bimself ; and I tboiigbt with myself be might even lie 
tliere ; for if be bad frigbtened me, so be would certainly frigbt 
any of tbe savages, if any of tbeai should be so liardy as to come 
in tliere wbile be bad any life in bim» 

I was now recovercd from my surprise, and began to look round 
ine, wbeo I Ibuiid tbe cave was but very small, tbat is to say, it 
might bc about twelve feet over, but in no mannet of sbape, 
neither round iior Square» no bands ba\'ing ever been employed 
in making it but tbose uf mere Natare. I observed also tbat 
tbcre was a place at the fiirtlier side of it that went in furtber, 
but was so low tbat it reqaired me to erecp upoo my bands and 
knees to go into it, and w bitber it went I knew not : so baving 
no candle, I gave it over for that time ; but resolved to come 
again tbe next day, provided with candles and a tinder-box, wbich 
I bad made of the lock of one of tbe nmskets, witb some wild- 
(ire in tbe pan. 

Accordingly, the next day I came provided mtb six large 
randles of my own making (for I made very good candles now 
4>f goat*s tallüWt but was bard set for candlc-wick, using some- 



138 ADVENTURES OF 

times rags or rope-yarn, and sometimes the dried rind of a weed 
like netües) ; and going into this low place, I was obliged to 
creep upon all fours, as I have said, almost ten yards ; which, by 
the way, I thought was a venture bold enough, considering that 
I knew not how far it might go, nor what was beyond it. 
When I had got through the strait, I found the roof rose higher 
up, I believe near twenty feet ; but never was such a glorious 
sight Seen in the Island, I dare say, as it was, to look round the 
sides and roof of this vault or cave ; the wall reflected a hundred 
thousand lights to me from my two candles. What it was in the 
rock, whether diamonds, or any other precious stones, or gold, 
which I rather supposed it to be, I knew not. The place I was in 
was a most delightfiil cavity or grotto of its kind, as could be ex- 
pected, though perfectly dark ; the floor was dry and level, and had 
asort of asmall loose gravel uponit, so that there was no nauseous 
or venomous creature to be seen, neither was there any damp or 
wet on the sides or roof: the only difficulty in it was the entrance ; 
which, however, as it was a place of security, and such a retreat 
as I wanted, I thought that was a- convenience ; so that I was 
really rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved, without any delay, 
to bring some of those things which I was most anxious about 
to this place ; particularly, J resolved to bring hither my maga- 
zine of powder, and all my spare arms, viz. two fowling-pieces, 
for I had three in all, and three muskets, for of them I had eight 
in all: so I kept at my castle only five, which stood ready 
mounted like pieces of cannon, on my outmost fence, and were 
ready also to take out upon any expedition. Upon this occasion 
of reraoving my ammunition, I happened to open the barrel of 
powder which I took up out of the sea, and which had been wet; 
and 1 found that the water had penetrated about three or four 
inches into the powder on every side, which caking and growing 
hard, had preserved the inside fike a kernel in the shell ; so that 
I had near sixty pounds of very good powder in the centre of the 
cask : this was a very agreeable discovery to me at that time ; 
so I carried all away thither, never keeping above two or three 
pounds of powder with me in my castle, for fear of a surprise of 
any kind : I also carried thither all the lead I had left for bullets. 

I faucied myself now like one of thp ancient giants, which were 
Said to live in caves and holes in the rocks, where none could 
come at them ; for I persuaded myself, while I was here, that if 
five hundred savages were to hunt me, they could never find me 
out ; or, if they did, they would not venture to attack me here. 
The old goat, whom I found expiring, died in the mouth of the 
cave the next day after I made this discovery : and I found it 
much easier to dig a great hole there, and throw him in and cover 
him with earth, than to drag him out ; so I interred him there, 
to prevent oflfence to my nose« 

I was now in the twenty-third year of my residence in this 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



139 



\\Snd \ and was so tiaturalized to tlie place, and the manner of 

kliving, ihiit coiild I liave but erijoyed tlie certainty that no 

savages woiüd come to tlie place to distiirb me, I could have 

beeQ content to bave capitulated for apendmg; the rest of my 

time tliere, eveu to the last Tnoment, tili I Imd laid me down and 

died, likc ibe old goat in the cavc. I bad also arrived to some 

little diversions and arauscmentä, wbicb made tbe time pass a 

great deal raore pleasantly with me than it did belbre : as, first» 

I had tauo:ht my Poll, a3 I noted before, to speak ; and he did it 

so familiarly, and talked so articulately and plain^ that it was 

Tery pleasant to me : for 1 believc no bird ever spoke plainer ; 

r And bc Uved with rae no less tban six-and-twenty yeara : how 

■long he might bave lived aftenirardB I know not, tbougb I 

Itnow tbey bave a notion in tbe Brazils that tbey live a bundred 

years. My dog was a very pleaaatit and loving companion to 

me for no less than sixteen years of my time, and tben died of 

mere ohl age* As for my cata, tbey multipUed, aa I have obaenedi 

to that degree, that I was obliged to shoot several of them at. 

firat, to keep them from devonring rae and all I had; bnt^ at 

lengtb, when the two old ones I broiight witb me were gone, 

and after some time continimlly driving them from me, andletting 

them have no provision with ine, tbey ull ran wild into the woods, 

except two or three favourites, whicb I kept tarne, and whose 

young^ when they had any, I always drowned ; and tbcse were 

part of my family. BesidV^ these, I always kept two or three 

ELonsehold kids about me, whom I tangbt to feed out of my band ; 

and I bad two more parrota^ which talked pretty well, and wonld 

all call Robin Crusoe, but none lik© my first; nor, indeed, did I 

take tbe paing witb any of them that I bad done with bim. I 

had also «everal tame scafowls, whose namcä I knew not, that 

I caiigbt npon the shore, and ciit their wängs ; and the little 

stakcs wbicb I had planted before my castle wall being dow 

Town up to a good thick grove, these fowla all lived among 

[lese low trees, and bred thcrc, wliieb was very agreeable to me: 

$o that, tiü l Said above, I bepan to be very well contcnted witb 

l|he life I led, if l could bave beeu s ecured from tbe dread of the 

l^avages. But it was otbcrwise directed ; and it may not be amiss 

l)r aU people who shall meet with my story, to make tbis just 

Observation from it, viz. How frei|uently, in the course of our 

fives, the evil wbicb in itaelf we seek most to shun, and whicli, 

fhen we are fallen into, is the most dreadful to na, ia ofientimes 

^ihe very meana or door of our deliverance, by wbkh alone we 

can be raised again from the affliction we are fallen into, I could 

five many examples of this in tbe course of my nnacco im table 
fe^ but in nothing waa it more particularly remarkablc than in 
the circnmstances of my last years of solitary residenee in this 
Island. 



140 



ADYENTURES OF 




SECTION XX. 



ANOTHEB VISIT OF TOE SAVAGES. — ^ROBINSON SEES THEM DANCING. 
— PERCEIVES THE WRECK OF A VESSEL. 

It was now tte montk of December, as I said above, in my 
twenty-third year; and tbis being tbe southem solstice (for 
Winter I cannot call it), was tbe particular time of my barvest, 
and required my being pretty much abroad in tbe fields ; wben 
going out pretty early in tbe moming, even before it was tborougb 
dayligbt, I was surprised witb seeing a ligbl of some fire upon 
tbe shore, at a distance from me of about two miles, towards tbe 
end of tbe Island wbere I bad observed some savages bad been, 
as before ; and not on tbe otber side, but, to my great affliction, 
it was on my side of tbe isiand. 

I was indeed terribly surprised at tbe sigbt, and stopped sbort 
witbin my grove, not daring to go out, lest I might be surprised; 
and yet I bad no more peace witbin, from tbe apprebensions I 
bad tbat if tbese savages, in rambling over tbe isiand, sbould 
find my com standing or cut, or any of my works and improve- 
ments, tbey would immediately oonclude tbat tbere were people 
in tbe place, and would tben never give over tili tbey bad found 
me out. In tbis extremity, I went back directly to my Castle, 
pulled up tbe ladder after me, and made all tbings witbout look 
as wild and natural as I could. 

Tben I prepared myself witbin, putting myself in a posture oi 
defence : I loaded all my cannon, as I caUed tnem, tbat is to say, 
my muskets, wbicb were mounted upon my new fortification, 
and all my pistols, and resolved to defend myself to tbe last 
gasp ; not forgetting seriously to commend myself to tbe divine 
protection, and earnestly to pray to God to deuver me out of tbe 
bands of tbe barbarians. I continued in this posture about two 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 



111 



bonrs ; and be^an to be migbty impatient for intelUgence abroad, 
for I Lad no spies to send out. After aitting awhile longer, and 
miising what I ahoidd do in tbis, I was not able to bear aitting 
in igiiorance any longer ; so setting iip my ladder to the side of 
the hill, wbere tbere was a fiat place, aa I observed before, and 
then pulling tbe ladder up afler me, 1 set it np again, and mounted 
to the top ol' tbe hUl ; and pulling out my perspective glass, 
whicb I bad takivn on purpose, I laid me down flat on my belly 
QU tbe groniid, and began to look for tbe place. I presently 
fotind tbere were no less tbau nine naked savages, sitting round 
a small fire tbey bad made» not to warm themt for tbey bad no 
need of tbat, tbe weather being e\tremely bot, but^ as I sup- 
posed^ to dress some of tbeir barbanms diet of human flesn, 
T^bicb tbey bad brougbt witb tbem, wbetber aUve or dead I could 
not telL « 

Tbey bad two canoes witb tbem, wbich tbey bad baided up 
upon tbe sbore ; and as it was then tide of ebb, tbey aeemed to 
me to wait for the return of the fiood to go away again. It Is 
not easy to imagine wbat confusion this sight put me into, 
cspecially seeing tbem oome on my side of tbe island, and so 
near rac too; bat wben I considered tbeir Coming mnst be 
alwayä witb the current of tbe ebb, I bcgan, afler wards, to be 
more sedate in my mindj being saüsfied that I migbt go abroad 
witb safety all the time of the tide of flood, if tbey were not on 
sbore before ; and having made tltis Observation] I went abroad 
about my harvest work witb the more composnre. 

As 1 expectedj so it proved ; for as soon aa the tide made to 
^e westward, I saw tbem all take boat, aod row (or paddle, as 
we call it) away. I sbould have observed, that for an hour or 
more before tbey went ofl^ tbey went a dancing ; and I could 
easily discern tbeir poätiires and gestures by my glasg. I could 
not perceive, by my nicest Observation, but tbat tbey were stark 
naked, and bad not the leaist covering npon tbem ; but wbether 
tbey were men or woraen, 1 could not distinguish, 

As soon a» I saw tbem shipped and gone, 1 took two guna 

Pupon my Shoulders, and two piatols in my girdle, and my great 
eword by my side, witbout a scabbard, and witb all the speed i 
was able to make, went away to the hill wbere 1 bad discovered 
the first appearance of all i and as soon as I got thither, wbich 
■was not in less than two honrs (for 1 could not go apace, being 

[ io loaden witb arms as I was), I perceived tbere bad been tbree 

r canoes more of savages at that place ; nnd looking out fartber, 
I saw tbey were all at sca togethcr, making over for tbe main. 

! Tbis was a dreadlHil sigbt to me, especially as, going down to tbe 
fiboTCf I could sec tbe marks of liorror, which tbe dismal work 
tbev bad been about bad left bebind it, viz. the blood, tbe boneg, 
ana part of tbe flesh, of human bodies, eaten and devourcd bj 
Uiose wretcbe^ witb mernment and sport. I was so fiUed wiu 

l2 



142 . ADVENTÜRES OP 

Indignation at the sight, that I now began to premeditate the 
destruction of the next that I saw there, let them be whom 
or bow many soever. It seemed evident to me that the visits 
which they made thus to this island were not very fr^quent, for 
it was above fifteen months before any more of them came ou 
shore there i^ain; that is to say, I neither saw them, nor any 
footsteps or Signals of them, in aU that time ; for, as to the rainy 
seasons, then they are sure not tO come abroad, at least not so 
far : yet all this while I lived uncomfortably, by reason of the 
constant apprehensions of their coming upon me by surprise : 
from whence I observe, that the expectation of evil is more bitter 
than the suffering, especially if there is no room to shake off 
that expectation, or those apprehensions. 

During all this time I was m the murdering hümour, and took 
up most of my hours, which should have been better employed, 
•in contrivine now to circumvent and fall upon them, the very next 
time I shomd see them; especially if they should be divided, as 
they were the last time, into two parties : nor did I consider at 
all, that if I killed one party, suppose ten or a dozen, I was still 
the next day, or week, or month, to kill another, and so another, 
even ad infinitum, tili I should be at length no less a murderer 
than they were in being man-eaters, and perhaps much more so. 
I spent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety of mind, 
expecting that I should, one day or other, fall into the hands of 
ihese merciless creatures; and if I did at any time venture 
abroad, it was not without looking round me with the greatest 
€are and caution imaginable. And now I found, to my great 
1^ ibomfort, how happy it was that I provided for a tame flock or 
Vherd of goats : for I durst not, upon any account, fire my gun, 
especially near that side of the Island, where they usually came, 
lest I should alarm the savages; and if they had fled from me 
now, I was sure to have them come again, with perhaps two or 
three hundred canoes with them, in a few days, and then I knew 
what to expect. However, I wore out a year and three months 
more before I ever saw any more of the savages, and then I 
found them again, as I shall soon- observe. It is true, they 
might have been there once or twice, but either they made no 
' stay, or at least I did not see them : but in the month of May, 
as near as I could calculate, and in my four-and-twentieth year, 
^ I had a very stränge encounter vdth them ; of which in its place. 
The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or sixteen 
months 'interval, was very great ; I slept unquiet, dreamed always 
frightful dreams, and often started out of my sleep in the night : 
in the day, great troubles overwhelmed my mind ; and in the 
night, I dreamed often of killing the savages, and of the reasons 
whjr I might justify the doing of it. But to waive all this for a 
while. — It was in the middle of May, on the sixteen th day, I 
thinky as well as my poor wooden calendar would reckon, for I 



marke d all upon tlie post atill ; I saj, it wfts on tlie sixteentli of 
May thiit it blcw a very ^reat stonn of wind all day» with a g^reat 
deai of li^htning and thunder, and a very foul night it was after 
it, I knew not what was thc particular occa^ion of it, but as I 
vas reading in tlie Bible, and taken up witli very serious tliou«^hts 
about my preaent coiidition, I was surprised with tke noise of a 
gun, as i thoug:ht» Itred at sea, Thia was, to be sure, a snrprise 
quite of a diäereut natiirc froiii any I had met w ith before ; tbr the 
Dotions tbia put into my thougbts were rjuite of auother kind. 
I Started up in the greatest hasie iiiia^inable, and, in a trice, 
clapped my iadder to the middle place of tlie rock, and pulled it 
aftt-T me ; and mountin^ it ibe seeond timc», got to the top of the 
hiil thc very moment that a (iash t>f fire bid me listen for a second 
;un, whicli accordino^ly, in about half a miimtSi I heard; andj by 
' e sound» knew that it was trora that part of the sea where 1 
waa driven dowo the current in my boat. I immediately con- 
sidered that this mnst be so ine ship in distress, and that they had 
8ome cumrade^orsome other sbip in Company, and fired these gnns 
for t*i«^aU of distress, and to obtain hclp. 1 had thcpresence of 
mindj at that minute, to think that though I could nothelp them^ 
it might be tliey inigbt help nie : so I brought togetber all the 
dry wo od I could get at hand, and makiög a good handsome pile^ 
I »et it on fire upon the hill. The vvood was dry, and blazed 
fireely ; and though the wind ble\v very hard, yet it burnt fairly 
out : so that I was certain, il" thei*e was any such thing as a sliip, 
they miist needs see it ; and no doiibt they did ; for as soon as 
ever my tire bhized up I lieard another gnn, and afler that several 
otbers, all !rom the same quarter. J plied my Hre all night long» 
tili daybreak j and wheu it was broad day, and the aii* cleared np, 
I saw something at a great diatance at sea, füll east of the Island, 
whether a sail or k huU I could not distinguish, no, not with my 
glass; the distance was so grciit, and the weather atill someihing 
hazy also ; at Icast it w as so out at sea. 

I looked frequently at it all that day* and soon perceived tbat 

it did not move; so 1 preseully concluded tbat it was a sbip at 

BDchor; and being eager, yuu may be sure, to be satisfied, I took 

my gun in my band, and ran towards the aoutb side of the 

Und, to the rocks where I had fonncrly becn carried away with 

c curreDt; and getting up tbere, the w cather by this time being 

perfectly clear, I could plainly see, to my great sorrow, the 

wreck of a ship, caat away in the night upon tbose concealed 

rocks which I fouod wben I was out in my boat ; and wbich 

rocks, aii they cbecked the violence of the stream, and made a 

kind of counter-strcam, or eddy, were the occasiou of my 

rccovering frora the most desperate, hopeless condition that 

evcr I had been in, in all my life, Thus, wbat is one man 's 

alety is another man's destruction ; for it seems these menj 

irhoever they were, being out of tbeir knowledgc, and the roeka 



144 ADYENTÜRES OP 

belog whoUy under water, had been driven upon them in the 
night, tbe wind blowing hard at £. N. £. Uad they seen the 
Island, as I most necessarily suppose they did not, they must, 
as I thought, have endeavoured to have saved Üiemselves on 
shore by &e help of their boat; but their firing off funs for help, 
especiaUy when they saw, as I imagined, my fire, nUed me with 
many thoughts : First, I imagined that upon seeing my light, 
they might have put themselyes into their boat, and endeavoured 
to make the shore ; but that the sea ^oing very high, they might 
have been cast away : other times I unagined that they might 
have lost their boat before, as might be the case many ways; as 
particularly, by the breakmg of the sea upou their ship, which 
many times ooliges men to stave, or take in pieces, their boat, 
and sometimes to throw it overboard with their own hands : 
other times I imagined they had some other ship or ships in 
Company, who, upon the Signals of distress they had made, had 
taken them up and carried them off: other times I fanded they 
were all gone off to sea in their boat, and being hurried away by 
the current that I had been formerly in, were earried out into 
the great oeean, where there was nothmg but misery and perish- 
ing ; and that perhaps, they might by this time be starviug, and 
in a condition to think of eating one another. 

As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in the condition 
I was in, I could do no more than look on upon the misery of the 
poor men, and pity them ; which had still Üiis good effect on my 
side, that it gave me more and more cause to give thanks to Goo, 
who had so happily and comfortably provided for me in my 
desolate condition ; and that of two ship 's companies who were 
now cast away upon this part of the world, not one life should 
be spared but mine. I leamed here again to observe, that it is 
ivery r are that the pr ovidencedF,(j.Q.d.cast8-Ufl into any eondition 
x>f life so low, or any misery "so^great, but we m ay see so mething 
or oflttCßCSejKaiffi may see Öthers in worse circum- 

stauces thao our ownT' Such certainly was the case of these 
men, of whom I could not so much as see room to suppose any 
of them were saved ; nothing could make it rational so much as 
to wish or expect that they did not all perish there, except the 
possibUity only of their being taken up by another ship in Com- 
pany ; and this was but mere possibility indeed, for I saw not the 
least sign or appearance of any such thing. I cannot explain, by 
any possible energy of words, what a stränge longing or han- 
kering of desires I feit in my soul upon this sight, breaking out 
sometimes thus — O that there had been but one or two, nay, or 
but one soul saved out of this ship, to have escaped to me, that 
I might but have had one companion, one fellow-creature to have 
spoken to me, and to have conversed with ! In all the time of my 
solitary life, I never feit so earnest, so strong a desire after the 
Society of my fellow-creatures, or so deep a regret at the want of it. 



ROBINSON CILUSOE, 



145 



■ftmm. 



SECTION XXL 



HE VISITS THE WRECK AND 0BTA1NS MANY STORES PROM IT,— 
AöAlN TH1NK3 OF QUIlTING THE ISLAND.— HAS A REMARKABLE 
Da£AAl, 

Trere aro some secret movin^ Springs in the affections, ^bicbf 

vhen they are set a going by aome object m>ae\v, or, thoiigb not 

in view, yet rendered present to tli© mind by the power of imagi- 

nation, Uiat motion carriea out tbe soul, 6y ita irnpetnosity, to 

liucb violent, caprer embracinsrs of tbe object, tliat tbe absence of 

it is ioBuppor table, Such were tbeae eaniest wiBhtngs that but 

one miin bad been saved. I believe I repeated tbe words, " O 

that it had been but oae!" a tbousaiid times; and my desires 

were so moved by it, Ihat wlien I apüke tbe words trjy hands 

would clinch toget'her, auti my fru^crs uould press tbe pnlms of 

my bands so, tbat if I bad bad any soft thing in my band it would 

t liave crushcd it invobmtarily ; and the teetb in my head would 

I Btrike to^ether, and set agaiust onc auotber 8o Btrong, that for 

iiome tüme I could not part tbem again. Let tbe naturalists 

cxplain tbese tbings, and the reason and manner of tbem : all I 

caij 8ay to them ig, to describe the fact, which was even siirprising: 

to me, when I found it, tboiij^h I knew not frora whence it pro- 

\ ceeded : it was doubt less the cffcet of ai^ent wisbes^ and of strong 

I ideas formed in my mind, realising the comfort wbicb tbe con- 

► versation of otie of my fei low- Christi ans would bave been to me. 

But it was not to be ; either tbeir fate ormine» or hoth, forbadc 

it: for tiU the last year of my being on tbi» island, I never kncw 

ifhether any were saved out of that ahip or no ; and had only the 

kafniction, somc days after» to see tbe corpse of a drowned boy 

I on shore at the cnd ol' the Island which was next the ship' 






14ft ADVENTÜRES OP 

wreck. He liAd no clothes on but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair 
of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but nothing 
to direct me so much as to guess what nation he was of : he had 
nothing in his pockets but two pieces-of-eight and a tobacco 
pipe :— the last was to me of ten tunes more value than the first. 
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in my 
boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might find something on 
board that might be useful to me : but that did not altogether 
ress me so much, as the possibility that there might be yet some 
Lving creature on board, whose life I might not only save, but 
might, by saving that life, comfort my own to the last degree. 
And this thoi^ht clung so to my heart, that I could not be quiet 
night or day, but I must venture out in my boat on board this 
wreck ; and committing the rest to God's providence, I thought 
the Impression was so strong upon my mind that it could not be 
resisted, that it must come from some invisible direction. and that 
I should be wanting to myself if 1 did not go. 

Under the power of this Impression, I hastened back to my 
Castle, prepared everything for my voyage, took a quantity of 
bread, a great pot of fVesh water, a compass to steer by, a bottle 
of rum (ror I had still a great deal of that left), and a basket of 
raisins ; and thus loading myself with everything necessary, I 
went down to my boat, got the water out of ner, put her afloat, 
loaded all my cargo in her, and then went home again for more. 
My second cargo was a great bag of rice, the umbrella to set up 
over my head for a shade, another large pot of fresh water, and 
about two dozen of my small loaves, or barley-cakes, more than 
before, with a bottle of goat's milk and a cheese : all which, with 
great labour and sweat, I carried to my boat ; and praying to 
God to direct my voyage, I put out ; and rowing, or paddling, 
the canoe along the shore, came at last to the utmost point of 
the Island on the north-east side. And now I was to launch out 
into the ocean, and either to venture or not to venture. I looked 
on the rapid currents which ran constantly on both sides of the 
island at a distance, and which were very terrible to me, from the 
remembrance of the hazard I had been in before, and my heart 
began to fall me : for I foresaw that if I was driven into either of 
those currents, I should be carried a great way out to sea, and 
perhaps out of my reach, or sight of the island again ; and that, 
then, as my boat was but small, if any little gale of wind should 
rise, I should be inevitably lost. 

Iliese thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began to give 
over my enterprise ; and having hauled my boat into a little 
creek on the shore, I stepped out, and sat me down upon a rising 
bit of ground, very pensive and anxious, between fear and desire, 
about my voyage : when, as I was musing, I could perceive that 
the tide was tumed, and the ^ood come on ; upon which my 
going was impracticable for so many hours. Upon this, pre- 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 147 

aently, it occiirred to me tliat I sTiould go iip to the liigliest piece 
of ground 1 could find, aiid obserye, if' 1 could, how tbe sets of 
the tide, or currentSj lay wlien the flood came in, tbat I uiiglit 
judge whetker, if 1 was dhven oiie way out, I mig:bt not expect 
to be driven .inothcr way honie, with the same rapkbieäs of the 
currents. This thoii^ht was iio sooner in my head tban I cast 
Tay eye upon a iittle hill| wLich sufficiently overiooked the sea 
both ways, and frum whcnce I hat! a clear view of tbe ciirreiits, 
or seta of tlic tide, and ivliich way 1 was to guide myself in my 
refcurn. ILere 1 found^ that as tbe current of tlie ebb set out 
cloae by tbe soiitb point of Lbe isltind^ so llie current of tbe dood 
set in closü by tbe sbore of the north sidc ; and tbat I had 
nothing to do bot to keep to the north side of the kland in my 
return, and I should do well enougb. 

Encouraged witb tbis Observation, I resolved, the next morn* 
ing, to set out with the ßrst of tbe tide ; and reposing myäelf for 
tbe night in my canoe, under the great vvatcbcoat 1 mentioned, 
I taunched out, I first made a Iittle out to sea, fnli north, tiJJ I 
begtia to feel tbe beaetit of tbe current, w hieb sei eastw ard, and 
whicb carried me at a great rate, and yet did not so hurry me 
as tbe carrcnt on the ssouth side had done before, so aa to take 
from me all governraent of the boat ; bnt baviog a Btrong stcer- 
age with my paddle, I went ata great rate directly for tbe wreck» 
and in less tban two hourü 1 came iip lo it. It was a di^nial 
sight to look at : tbe ship, wbicb, by its building^ w as Spanisb, 
stuck fast, jammed in between two rocks ; all the stern aud 
quarter of her were beaten to pieces witb tbe sea ; and as her 
forecaätle, which stuck in tbe rocks, had rmi on wilb great 
violence, her mainmast and foremaist wcre brought by the board, 
tbat is to say, broken short off; but her bowsprit was soiuid, 
and the heaid and bow appeared firm- Wben I came close to 
her, a dog appeared upon her, vvbo, seeing me coming, yelped, 
and cried ; and as soon m I ealkd bim jumped into tbe Bea to 
eome to me. I took bim into tbe boat, but fonnd bim almost 
dead witb bunger and thirst, I gavc liim a cake of my bread, 
aiid be devoured it üke a ravenous wolf tbat bad been starving 
a fortiiight in tbe snow. ! then gave the poor creature some 
freäh watcr, with which, if I w ould have let him, be would ba\e 
burst himself. Aficr this, [ went im board ; bat the first sigbt 
I met witb was two men drow ned in tbe cook room, or forccastle 
of tbe sbip, with tbeir anns fast about one another. I concluded» 
BS k indeed probable, tbat wheo tbe ship Struck, it being in a 
storm, the sea broke so high, and so contiuually over her, tbat 
the men were not able to bear it, and were btrangled witb ihe 
constaut rusbing in of tbe w ater, as mucb as if tbey had been 
under water, Bcsides the dog» there w as nothing left in the ship 
tbat had lite^ nor any goods, tbat 1 could see, but what wero 
fipoikd by the water. Tbcre ^vere some casiks of Liquor, whethei 



148 ADVENTURES OF 

wine or brandy I knew not, which lay lower in the hold, and 
wMch, the water belog ebbed out, I could see ; but they were 
too big to meddle wlth. 1 saw several chests, which I believed 
belonged to some of the seamen ; and I got two of them into 
the boat, without examlnln^ what was In them. Had the stem 
of the ship been fixed, and the forepart broken off, I am per- 
suaded I might have made a good voyage : for, by what I found 
in these two chests, I had room to suppose the shlp had a great 
deal of wealth on board ; and, if I may guess firom the course 
she steered, she must have been bound from Biienos Ayres, or 
the Rio de la Plata, in the south part of America, beyond the 
Brarils, to the Havanna, in the Gulf of Mexico, and so perhaps 
to Spain. She had, no doubt, a great treasure in her, but of no 
use, at that time, to anybody ; and what became of her crew, I 
then knew not. 

I found, besides^ these chests, a Httle cask füll of liquor, of 
about twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with much 
difficulty. Tnere were several muskets in the cabin, and a great 
powder-hom, with about four pounds of powder in it : as for the 
muskets, I had no occasion for them, so I left them, but took 
the powder-horn. I took a fire shovel and tongs, which I wanted 
extremely ; as also two little brass kettles, a copper pot to make 
chocolate, and a gridiron : and with this cargo, and the dog. I 
came away, the tide beginnlng to make home again ; and tne 
same evening, about an hour within night, I reached the Island 
again, weary and fatigued to the last degree. I reposed that 
night in the boat ; and in the moming I resolved to harbour 
what I had got in my new cave, and not carry it home to my 
Castle. After refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on shore, and 
beffan to examine the particulars. The cask of liquor I found 
tobe a kind of rum» but not such aswe had at the Brazils, and, 
in a word^ not at all good ; but when I came to open the chests, 
I found several things of great use to me : for example, I found 
in one a fine case of bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and fiUed 
with cordial waters, fine and very good ; the bottles held about 
three pints each, and were tipped with süver. I found two pots 
of very good succades or sweetmeats, so fastened also on the 
top, that the salt water had not hurt them ; and two more of the 
same, which the water had spoiled. 1 found some very good 
Shirts, which were very welcome to me ; and about a dozen and 
a half of white linen handkerchiefs and coloured neckcloths ; the 
former were also very welcome, being exceeding refreshing to 
wipe my face in a bot day. Besides this, when I came to the 
tili in the ehest, I found there three great bags of pieces-of eight, 
which held about eleven hundred pieces in all; and in one 
of tiiem, wrapped up in a paper, six doubloons of gold and some 
small bars or wedges of gold ; I suppose they might all weigh 
near a pound. ^In the other chests were some clothes, but 




of little value ; but, by the circurastances, it must have belongcil 
to the gunner's raate ; tliough tliere was no powder in it, except 
two pouads ot fine glazed powder, in three sniatl ttasks, kept, L 
auppoBe, tbr cbarging tbeir ft)\viiii^-pieceti on occasion. L^pcm^ 
the >vhül€, I got very little by this voyage that was of any use 
to me : for, aa to the money, I had no manner of üccaüion for it ; . 
it was to me as tbe dirt under my l'eet ; and I woiild have ^veiy 
it all for three or four pair of Englisb sboes and stockin gs, whidi 
were tbinga I grcatly waiited^ but bad uoiie on iny feet Ibrmany 
years. 1 had indeei got two pair of slioes tiow, wlüch I took 
off the feet of tbe two drowued nicn wUom I saw in the wreck, 
and I found two pair more in oiie of the ehest«, wbich were very 
welcome to me \ but tbey were not like oiir Engiish ehoes, eilher 
for eaae or Service^ being ratber wbat we call pumps than shoes. 
I found in tbis seaman's ehest about fifty pieees-of-eigbt m rials, 
but no gold : I supposc this belonged to a poorer man tban the 
other, which seemed to belong to some oflicer. Well, however, 
I lugged tliis money home to my cave, and laid it up, as 1 had 
done that before wliieh 1 brougbt froin our own sbip : bnt it was 
a great pity, as I said, tbat the other pari of tbis sbip bad not 
come to my share ; for I ara satisfied J mitjbt bave load'>d my 
canoe sevcral timea over witb rcioney ; and, tbought I, if I ever 
escape to England, it inight lie bere safe enougb tili 1 may come 
agHin and fetcb it. 

Haying now brought all my tbings on shore, and seeurcd tbem, 
I wcnt back to niy boat, and roued or paddled her along tlie sbore, 
to her old harbour, where I h\\d her up, and nmde the best of my 
way to mv ohl habitation^ where 1 found every tbiog safe and 
quiet. 1 begau now to repose inyself, live after my old fashion, 
and take care of my family a^Tairs ; and, for a whüe» I lived 
eaay cnongh, only tbat l was more vigilant than 1 used to 
be, looked out oftcner, and did not go abroad so mnch ; and 
if at any trme I did stir witb any freedom, it was alvi ays to tbe 
east part of the island, where 1 was pretty well satisfied the 
savagea never came, and where I couM go without so many 
precautioos, and such a load of armä and ammunition aa I 
always carried with me if 1 weiit ihe other way* I lived in thia 
condition near two years more ; but my unlucky be^d, tbat was 
always to let me know it was born to make my body miserable^ 
was all tbese two jears fiÜed witb projects and designs, how, if it 
were poi^sible, 1 might get nway from this Island : tbr sometimes 
1 was (br making anotber voyage to the wreck, though my reasoa , 
told nie tbat there was nothing left there wortb tbe haaard of my I 
voyao^ej sometimes for a vanible one way, sometimes anotber; 
and f beüeve vcrily, if I had bad tbu boat ihat I went from Sallee 
in, I sbould bave venturcd to sea, bonnd any where, I knew not 
whitber. 1 bnve been, in all my circumstauces, a memento to tboso 
who are touched with the ge'ncral plague of mankind, whence. 



^ 



I5d* ADVENTÜRES OP 

* for aüght I knowj one-half of their miseries flow ;Cj raean that 
of not being satisfied with the Station wherein God and natare 
hath placed them : for, not to look back upon my primitive con- 
dition, and the ex.cellent advice of my father, the Opposition to 
Which was, as I may call it, my original sin, my subsequent mis- 
takes of the same kind Imd Beentnemeans of my Coming into 
this miserable condition^ for had that Providence, which so 
happily seated me at the Brazils as a planter, blessed me with 
confined desires, and I could.have been contented to have gone 
on gradually, I might have been, by this time, I mean in the 
time of my being in this island, one of the most considerable 
planters in the Brazils ; nay, I am persuaded, that by the im- 
provements I had made in that little time I lived there, and the 
increase 1 should probably have made if I had remained, I might 
have been worth a handred thousand moidores. And what 
business had I to leave a settled fortane, a well-stocked planta- 
tion, improving and increasing, to turn supercargo to Guinea to 
fetch negroes, when patience and time would have so increased 
our stock at home, that we could have bought them at our own 
door from those whose business it was to fetch them ; and though 
it had cost us something more, yet the difierence of that price 
was by no means worth saving at so great a hazard? Hut as 
this is usually the fate of yoimg hea&, so reflection upon the 
folly of it is as commonly the exercise of more years, or of the 
dear-bought experience of time : so it was with me now ; and 
yet so deep had the mistake taken root in my temper, that I 
could not satisfy myself in my Station, but was continually poring 
upon the means and possibility of my escape from this place. 
And that I may, with the greater pleasure to the reader, bring 
on the remaining part of my story, it may not be iraproper to 
give some account of my first conceptions on the subject of this 
foolish scheme for my escape, and how, and upon what founda- 
tion, I acted. 

I am now to be supposed retired into my Castle, after my late 
voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up and secured under water, 
as usual, and my condition restored to what it was before; I had 
more wealth, indeed, than I had before, but was not at all the 
richer : for I had no more use for it than the Indians of Peru had 
before the Spaniards came there. 

It was one of the nights in the rainy season in March, the 
four-and-twentieth year of my first setting foot in this island 
of solitude, I was lying in my bed, or hammock, awake ; very 
well in health, had no pain, no disteraper, no uneasiness of body, 
nor any uneasiness of mind, more than ordinary, but could by 
no means close my eyes, that is, so as to sleep : no, not a wink 
all night long, otherwise than as follows : — It is impossible to 
set down the innumerable crowd of thoughts that whirled through 
that great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory, in this night 's 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



K.1 



time i T ran over tlie irhole history of my life in minißture, or 
by abridgment, as I may call it, to my comiiig^ to tbk isknd, 
and also of tbat part oi'my lifc since I came to tbis islajid» In 
my retlections upon tbe State of my case since 1 camc on sliore 
on tbis Island^ 1 was coraparing tlie bappy posture of my affairs 
in tlie first years of my liabitation Lere, compared to tbe lifo 
of anxiety, fear, and carc whicb I bad lived in, ever öince I had 
Seen tbe print of a Ibot in tbe sand : not that I did not beUeve 
tbe savagea bad frequented the iaisnd even all tbe ivhile, and 
migbt bave been aeveral liundreds of them at times on sbore 
tbere ; bnt I had nevep known It, &nä was iiicapable of any 
apprebensions about it ; my satisfartion was perfect, tbouorb my 
danger was tbe same^ and 1 was as bappy in not knowing my 
danger^ a3 if I bad never reaily been exposed to it. Tbis für- 
oislied my thon^bts witb many very profitable reÖectionSp and 
particularly tbis one : How inJinitely goo^ tbat Frovidence ia, 
wbieb bas provided, in its government of mankind, snpb n&TTOvr 
boands to bis siglit and knowledge of tbings ; and tbough be 
fi'&lks in tbe niidst of so many tbonsand dangers, the aigbt 
of wbicli^ if di.scovercd to bim, wouM distract bis inind and sink 
bis spiritf*, be is kept sercne and calm, by baving tbe events < 
of tbings bkl from bis eyes, and kuowing nothing ot^ the dangers t 
vrbich Surround bim. 

After tbeae tboughts had for some time entertained me, I came 
to reÜect serionsly upon the real danger I had been in for so 
many yeara in this very island, and how I had walked about in 
the greatest security, and witb all poaaible tranquillity, even 
wheii perhapa nothing but tbe brow of a hil!, a great tree, or 
tbe casual approach of night, had been between me and the 
iVOi*st kind of destruction, viz. that of fnlluig into the banda of 
cannibals and savages, wbo would have aeized on me witb the 
Same view as I would on a gnat or a turtle, and have thonght 
it no more a crime to kill and devour me, tban I did a pigeon 
or curlew, I would nnjustly slander myself, if I shoidd say I 
was not sincercly iliankful to my great Preserver, to wbose 
Bingular protectitm 1 acknowledged, wiih grcat bnmility, all 
these iniknown debvcnmces were due, and witbout wbitib I must 
inevitably bave fallen into tbeir merciless hands. 

Wheo these thougbts were o\er, my bead was for some time 
taken up in considering tbe nature of these wretched creatnres, 
I mean the savages, and bow it came to pass in the worldj tbat 
the wise Governor of all tbings sbould give up any of bis erea- 
tures to sueb inhnmanity, nay, to something so miich belowr 
even brutality itself, as to devour its own kind ; but as tbis 
ended in some (at tbat time) fVuitleas specidations, it occurred 
to me to inquire wbat part of the world tbeae wretches livetl 
in? how far off ihe coast wa« from whence they came? wbat 
they vcntured over so far from home for f wbat kind of boats 



152 ADVENTURES OP 

ihey had f and why I might not order myself and my bosiness 
80, that I might be as able to go over thither as they were to 
come to me. 

I never so mucb as troubled myself to consider what I shonld 
do with myself wben I went thither, what would become of me^ 
if I feil into the hands of the savages ; or how I should escape 
from them, if they attacked me : no, nor so much as how it was 
possible for me to reach the coast, and not be attacked by some 
or other of them, without any possibility of delivering myself; 
and if I shoüld not fall into their hands, what I should do for 
Provision, or whither I should bend my course : none of these 
thoughts, I say, so much as came in my way ; but my mind was 
whoUy beut upon the notion of my passing over in my boat to 
the main land. I looked upon my present condition as the 
most miserable that could pcNssibly be ; that I was not able to 
throw myself into any thing, but death, that could be called 
worse ; and if I reached the shore of the main, I might perhaps 
meet with relief, or I might coast along, as I did on the AMcan 
shore, tili I came to some inhabited country, and where I mi^ht 
find some relief; and after all, perhaps, I might Ml in.with 
some Christian ship that might take me in ; and if the worst 
came to the worst, I could but die, which would put an end to 
all these miseries at once. Pray note, all this was the fruit of a 
disturbed mind, an impatient temper, made desperate, as it 
were, by the long contmuance of my troubies, and the disap- 
poiatments I had met in the wreck I had been on board of, and 
where I had been so near obtaining what I so eamestly longed 
for, viz. somebody to speak to, and to leam some knowledge 
from them of the place where I was, and of the probable means 
of my deliverance. I was agitated wholly by these thoughts ; 
all my calm of mind, in my resignation to Providence, and 
waiting the issue of the dispositions of Heaven, seemed to be 
suspended; and I had, as it were, no power to tum my thoughts 
to any thing but to the project of a voyäge to the main, which 
came upon me with such force, and such an impetuosity of 
desire, tiiat it was not to be resisted. 

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or more, 
with such violence tbat it set my very blood into a ferment, 
and my pulse beat as if I had been in a fever, merely with the 
extraordinary fervour of my mind about it, nature, as if I had 
been fatigued and exhausted with the very thought of it, threw 
me into a sound sleep. One would have thought I should 
have dreamed of it, but I did not, nor of anything relating to 
it : but I dreamed that as I was going out in the moming, as 
usual, from my Castle, I saw upon the shore two canoes and 
eleven savages Coming to land, and that they brought with them 
another savage, whom they were going to kill, in order to eat 
him ; when, on a sudden, the savage that they were going to 




kül jumped awny, acd r»a for bis life ; and f thonght^ in my 
aleep, that he canie ruiming into my littlc thick grove beforeray 
fortificaüou, to hide lümself ; and that I, seeing him alone^ and 
not perceiving tLat the others sought him that way» Bhowed 
myseli' to him, and smiRng upon hiin^ euconraged him : that he 
kneeled down to me, seeming to pray mc to assist him ; npon 
wliich I showeti him my latlder, made hira go up, and carried 
liim into my cave, and he becaine my servaut : and that aa soou 
as I had got this man^ I saici to mysell^ Now I may certainly 
venture to the main land; ihr this fellow will sen'e me as a 
pilot, and will teil me whiit to do. and whither to go for pro- 
visions, aud wliitlier not to go for fear of being devoured ; vi hat 
places to venture into, and what to shun, I waked with this 
thought ; and waü iinder such inexptessible inipressions of joy 
at the prospect of ray escape in my dream, that the disappoint- 
ments wMch I feit npon coraing to myself, and finding that it 
was no more than a dreaniT were eqnally extravagant the other 
wav» and thircw me into a very great dejectkm of spiritä, 

Üpon this, however, I raade Üua conclusion : that ray only 
way to go about to attempt an escape was, if possibie, to get a 
savage into my possession ; and, if possibie, it should be one of 
their prmoners wbont they had condenmed to be eaten, and 
akonld brin^ hithet to kiU. Bnt these thoughts still were 
attended with this difficuUy, that it was impossible to cffect this 
without attacking a whole caravan of them, and killin^ thera 
ä11: and this was not only a vtrj desperate attempt, and might 
miscarry i bnt, on the other liand. I had greatly scrupled the 
lawfulncBS of it to mjs^\t\ and my beart trembled at tlie thought 
of shedding so ranch blood, thüiigh it was for nLy deliverance, 
I need not repeat the arguments which o^cnrred to me againsi 
this, Ihey being the same mentioned before ; bnt though I had 
other reasons to oitjer now, vix, that those men were enemiea to 
my life, and would devour me if they conld ; tliat it was seif- 
prescrvation, in the highest degree, to deliver myself from thisl 
aeath of a life, and was acting in my own defence as mucb aa if 1 
they were actually assanUing me, and tue bke ; I say, though 
thei^e things argued for it, yet the thoughts of shedding human 
blond for my deliverance were very terrible to me, and auch as 
1 conld by no meana reconcile myself to for a great whUe. 
However, at last, after many aecret disputcs with myself, and 
After great perplexilies about it (for afl these arguments, one 
way and another, struggled in my head a long time), the eager 
prcvailing desire of deliverance at IcogiU mastered all the rest ; 
and I reaolved, if possibie, to get one of those savages into my 
hands, eost what it w ould. My next thing was to contrive how 
to do it, and tbij* indeed was very dilfkult to resolve on : but as 
I conld pitch upon no probable mcans for it, so I resohed tu 
put myself upon the watch^ to see them when they came on 




shore, and leave tbe rest lo tlie event, taking such meastires aa 
ÜJe opportunity sbould preseiiti let what would be. 

With tliese reaoliitioDs in my thougliLs, 1 set myself upon tbe 
scout aa often as posaible, and mdeed so often, that I was heartily 
tired of it ; ibr it wa^ above & year and a liali' tbat I waited ; 
and for great part of tbat time went ont to tbe west end, and 
to Oie aoutb-west conier, of tbe isiand^ nlmost every day, to 
look foT canoes, but none appcared, This was very discouraging, 
and began Lo trouble me mueb, thougb I canuot say tbat it did 
in this case (as it bad done some tintie beforc) wear off tUe edge 
of my desire to tbe tbiDg ; but tbe looger it seemed to bc de- 
layed, tbe more pager 1 was ibr it : in a word, I wa3 not at first 
so caretul lo shun tbe sigbt of tbese s avages ^ and avoid being 
Seen by tbem, as l waa now eager to be upon tbem. Bcsides, 
1 fancicd myself able to manage one, nay, two or three savages, 
if I iiad tbem, so as to make them eutirely slaves to me, to do 
wbatever I should direct them, and to preveiit tbeir bcing able 
at any time to do me any hurt. It was a great wbile tbat 1 
plcased myself wkh tbk affair; but nothing still presented; all 
my faneies and Hcbemeö eame to nothing, for no ßavages came 
near nie ±br a great wbile. 



( 





.Vbout a year and a lialf after I enterfeained tliese notions (and 
hj long luusitia^ had, as it v,eTQ, resolved thcni all into nothiivj:, 
for waat of an occasion to put tbem intu executitm), I was sur- 
pi'ised, one mornin^ early, with Beeiiij^ no less than fiye canoes 
all on shore to^ether on my side the Island, and tbe pcople who 
beloaged to them all ianded, and out of my sight. The niimljer 
• of them broke all my measui-cs ; for seeiii«;^ so manyi and knov;' 
in^ that Ihey always canie four ov six, or sometünes more, in a 
boat, I could not teil wbat to think of it, or bow to take iny 
measurcs, to attack twt^nt^' or tlürty men sitiüjle-haiided ; bo lay 
still in my caätlc, perplexed and di-scoDÜbrted : houever, I pm 
luyself inio all tbe same postnres for an attack that 1 had foi- 
nierly provided, and waa jiwt ready for action, if anytbinsj liad 
presented* lUving waited a good uhile, listening to hear if 
they müde any noise, at longtli, belog vcry impatient, t set my 
giins at the foot of my ladder, and clambered up to tbe top of 
the billt by my two sUiges, as usual ; atandmc;: sojiowever, ibat 
my head did not appear above the hill, so tbat they could Tiot 
pcrceive me by any mcans Here I obsened, by the belp tif 
iTiy perspective g^iass, that they were no less than tbirty in 
number ; tbat they had a tire kindlcd, and tbat they had meat 
di'cssed. How they had cooked it I knew not, ot what it was ; 
but they wcro all dancing, in I kiiovv not how many barbaroua 
gestnrea and figures, tbeir own way, round tbe tire. 

M 



156 ADVENTURES OF 

While I was tbus looking on tliem, I perceived, by iny per- 
spective, two miserable wretcbes dragged from the boats, where, 
it seeras, they were laid by, and were now brought out for the 
slaughter. I perceived one of them immediately fall, being 
knocked down, I suppose, with a club or wooden sword, for 
that was their way, and two or three others were at work im- 
mediately, cutting Itim open for their cookery, while the other 
\'ictim was left stMiiiiDg by himself, tili they should be ready for 
him. In that T9iy ttoment, this poor wretch seeing himself a 
littie at liber^ «nd unbound, nature inspired him with hopes of 
life, and k© stiirted away from them, and ran with incredible 
swiftness along tlie sands, directly towards me, I mean towards 
that part of the coa^l whero myhabitation was. I was dread- 
fully frightwaed, l mnst iicknoWledge, when I perceived him run 
my way, antl «specially when, «s i thought, I saw him pursued 
by the whole body : and now I expected that part of my dream 
was Coming to pass, and that he would certainly take shelter in 
my grove ; but I could not depend, by any means, upon my 
dreara for the rest of it, viz. that the other savages would not 
pursue him thither, and find him there. However, I kept my 
Station, and my spirits began to recover, when I found that there 
was not above three men that followed him j and still more was 
I encouraged when I found that he outstripped them exceedingly 
in running, and gained ground of them, so that if he could but 
hold it for half an hour, I saw easily he would fairly get away 
from them all. 

There was between them and my Castle the creek, which T 
raentioned often in the first part of my story, where I landed 
my cargoes out of the ship ; and this I saw plainly he must ne- 
cessarily swim over, or the poor wretch would be taken there : 
but when the savage escaping came thither, he made nothing of 
it, though the tide was then up ; but phmging in, swam through 
in about thirty strokes, or thereabouts, landed, and ran on with 
exceeding strength and swiftness. When the three persons 
came to the creek, I found that two of them could swim, but the 
third could not, and that, standing on the other side, he looked 
at the others, but went no farther, and soon after went softly 
back again ; which, as it happened, was very well for him in the 
end. I observed, that the two who swam were yet more than 
twice as long swimming over the creek as the fellow was that 
lied from them. It came now very warmly upon my thoughts, 
and indeed irresistibly, that now was the time to get me a ser- 
vant, and perhaps a companion or assistant, and that I was 
called plainly by Providence to save this poor creature's life. 
I immediately ran down the ladders vtith all possible expedition, 
fetched my two guns, for they were both at the foot of the lad- 
ders, as I observed above, and getting up again, with the same 
haste, to the top of the hiil, I crossed toward the sea, and 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 



157 



baving a Tery sliort cut, and all downliill^ placed myself in tbe 
\tay between tbe pursiiers and the jmrsued, hallooing aloud to 
bim that fledi wbo» looking back, ^va,s at first, pcrhap«, as inudi 
IVigbteued at me as at them ; but I beckoned with my band to 
him to comc back ; and, in tbe meatitirne, I slowly advanced to- 
wards tbe two tbat foUowed : tben rusbing at once itpon tbe 
Jbrcmost, I knocked bim down witb tbe stock of my piece. 
I was lotb to fire, beciiuse I would not bave tbe rest bear ; 
thougb, ftt tlmt distance, it woidd not ba^e bccn easily beard, 
and being out of sigbt of the smoke too, tbey would not bave 
easily kiiown uliat to make of it. Haring knock**'^ tbis fellow 
down, the other who pursued bim stopped, as if be bad been 
frinrhteaed, and I advanced apace towards hira : but aa 1 carae 
nearer^ 1 perceived preyenLly be bad a bow and arrow, and was 
fitting it to Hhoot at mc : so" I was tben necpsskated to sboot at 
hira Ärstj wbich I didj and kilJed bim at tlie lirst sbot, Tbe poor 
savage wbo fled but bad stopped, tbougb be iäaw^ botb bis 
L'uemies fallen and killed, as be thougbt^ yet was so Mgbtened 
witb the tire and noise of my piece, tbat be stood stock still, 
and neitbcr came forward norwent back ward, tbongh heseemed 
ratber inclined still to tly tban to tome on. 1 ballooed again to 
Mm, and made signs to come forward, wbiclx he ensily under- 
Htood, and came a little way ; tben stopped agaio, and then a 
little iartber, and stopped ngain ; and I could tben perceive tbat 
he stood trembling, aa if he bad been taken prisoncr, and bad 
just been to be killed, as his two enemies were. 1 beckoned to 
bim again to come to rae, and gave bim all the sign« of encourage- 
^xnent tbat I could tbink of ; and be came nearer and neareri 
tieebug down everv ten or twelve Steps, in token of acknow* 
edgmeut for saving fiis Ufe. 1 smiled at bim, and looked plea- 
saatly, and beckoned to bim to jcome still nearer : at lengtb be 
came close to me; and tben he kiieeled down again* kissed tbe 
sn*ound. and laid his head upon tbe gromid, and taking me by 
tbe foot, set my footupon hb head : thi.i, it seems, was in token 
of swcBi'ing to be my slave for evcr. I took him np> and made 
mncb of bim, arvd encouraged him all I could* But tbere was 
more work to do yet; for I perceived the aavage wbom I 
knocked down was not killed but stnuned witb the blow, and 
begau to come to bimsell': so I pointed to bim, and sbowed bim 
tbe savage, tbat be was not dead : npon tbis be spoke some 
words to me, and tbougb I could not understand them, yet 
I tbought they were pleasant to hear ; for tbey were the first 
Sound of a man'a voice tbat 1 bad beard, ray own exceptod, for 
above twenty-five years. But tbere was no tirae for such re- 
Öections now ; tbe savage wbo was knocked down recovered 
himsclf so far as to sit up upon tJje groiind, and I perceived tbat 
my savage bcgan to be atraid ; but wben 1 saw tbat, 1 presented 
my otber piece at tbe man, as if l woiüd shoot bim j upon this 

m2 



158 ADVENTÜRES OF 

my savage, for so I call him now, made a motion to me to lend 
him my sword which hung naked in a beit by my aide, which 
I did. He no sooner had it, but he runs to his enemy, aad, at 
one blow, cut off bis head so cleverly, no executioner in Ger- 
many could have done it sooner or better; wüich I thought 
very stränge for one -who, I häd reason to believe, never saw a 
sword in bis life before, except-their own wooden swbrds : how- 
eyer, it seems, as I learned afterwArds, theymake their wooden 
swords so sharp, so beävy, and the wood is so hard, that tbey 
will cut off beads even with thera, ay and arms, aiidtbat at one 
.blow too. When he had done this, he comes laughing to me, in 
j^%ii of triumph, and brought me .the' sWord agaih/ and -With 
:abundance of gestures, which I did not imderständ, laid it' down, 
with the head of the savage that he had killed, juSt before me. 
But that which astonished him most was to -know how Iküled 
the other.Indian so far off: so pointing tö him,*he madelsigns 
to me to let him go to him ; so I bade hun go, as well as I could. 
When he came to him, he stood like one amazed, lookins at 
him, tuming him first on one side, then on the other, looked at 
the wound the bullet had made, which, it seems, was just in bis 
breast where it had made a hole, and no great quantity öf blood 
had followed, but he ha^ bled inwardly, for he was quite dead. 
He took up bis bow and arrows, and came back ; so I tumed to 
go away, and beckoned him to follow me, making signs to, him 
that more might come after them. Upon this, he made signs to 
me that he should bury them with sand, that they might not be 
seen by the rest, if they followed ; and so I made signs to him 
again to do so. He feil to work ; and, in an instant, he had 
scraped a hole in the sand with bis hands, big enough to bury 
the first in, and then dragged him into it, and covered him ; and 
did so by the other also : I believe he had buried them both in 
a quarter of an hour. Then calling him away, I carried him, 
not to my castle, but quite away, to my cave, on the farther 
part of the island : so I did not let my dream come to pass in 
that part, viz. that he came into my grove for shelter. Here 
I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat, and a draught of 
water, which I found he was indeed in great distress for, by bis 
ruuning ; and having refreshed him, I made signs for him to go 
and he down to sleep, showing him a place where I had laid 
some rice straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep 
upon myself sometimes ; *so the poor creature lay down, and 
went to sleep. 

He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well made, with 
straight, strong limbs, not too large, tall, and well-shaped, and, 
as I reckon, about twenty-six years of age. He had a very 
good countenance, not a fierce and surly aspect ; but seemcd to 
have something very manly in bis face ; and yet he had all the 
sweetness and softness of an European in bis countenance too. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 159 

especially when he smiled. His hair was long and black, not 
curled like wool ; his forehead very high and lai^ ; and a great 
vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The colour of his 
skin was not quite black, but very tawny ; and yet not anugly, 
yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Braziüans and Virginians, and 
other natives of America are, but of abright kind of a dun olive- 
colour, that had in it something very agreeable, though not very 
easy to describe. His face was round and plump ; his nose 
small, not flat like the Negroes ; a very good moudi, thin lips, 
and Ms fine teeth well set, and as white as ivory. 

After he had slumbered, rather than slept, about half an hour 
he awoke again, and came out of the cave to me, for I had been 
railking my goats, which I had in the enclosure just by : when he 
espied me, he came running to me, laying himself down again 
upon the ground, with all the possible signs of an humble, thank- 
ful disposition, making a great many antic gestures to show it. 
At last, he lays his head flat upon the ground, close to my foot, 
and sete my other foot upon his head, as he had done before; and 
after this made all the signs to me of subjection, servitude, and 
Submission imaginable, to let me know how he would serve me 
as long as he lived. I understood him in many things, and let 
him know I was very well pleased with him. In a Uttle time I 
began to speak to him and teach him to speak to me; and, first, 
I let him know his name should be Friday, which was the day 
I saved his life : I called him so for the memory of the time. I 
likewise taught him to say Master : and then let him know that 
was to be my name : I likewise taught him to say Yes and No, 
and to know the meaning of them. I gave him some milk in an 
carthen pot, and let him see me drink it before him, and sop my 
bread in it ; and gave him a cake of bread to do the like, whicn 
he quickly complied with, and made signs that it was very good 
for him. I kept there with him all that night ; but as soon as 
it was day, I beckoned to him to come with me, and let him know 
I would give him some clothes : at which he seemcd very glad, 
for he was stark naked. As we went by the place where he had 
buried the two men, he pointed exactly to the place, and showed 
me the marks that he had made to find them again, making signs 
to me that we should dig them up again, and eat them. At tlus I 
appeared very angry, expressed my abhorrence of it, made as if 
I would vomit at the thoughts of it, and beckoned with my hand 
to him ta come away, which he did immediately, with great Sub- 
mission. I then loa him up to the top of the hill, to see if his 
enemies were gone; andpulling out my glass, I looked, and saw 
plainly the place where they had been, but no appearance of them 
or their canoes : so that it was piain that they were gone, and 
had left their two comrades behind them, without any search 
after them. 

But I was not content with this discovery j but having no w 



160 ADTENTDRES OF 

more coiirÄge, and consequently more crriosity, I took my man 
FrkiAy with me, giving him the sword in liis hand, with the bow 
and Arrows at his back, whicb I found he could use very dexter- 
ously, making him carry one gun for me, and I two for myself ; 
and away we marched to the place where these cr^atures had 
been, for I had a mind now to get some fulier intelligence of them. 
When I came to the place, my very blood ran chill in my veins, 
and my heart sunk within me, at the horror of the spectacle : 
indeed, it was a dreadhil sight, at least it was so to me, though 
Friday made nothing of it. The place was covered with human 
bones, the ground dyed with their blood, and great pieces of flesh 
left here and there, half-eaten, mangled, and scorched ; and, in 
Short, all the tokens of the triumphant feast they had been 
making there, after a victory over their enemies. I saw threc 
scnlls, five hands, and the bones of three or four legs and feet, 
and abundance of other parts of the bodies ; and Friday, by his 
signs, made me understand that they brought over four prisoners 
to feast upon; that three of them were eaten up, and that he, 
pointing to himself, was the fourth ; that there had been a great 
battle between them and their next king, whose subjects, it seems, 
he had been one of, and that they had taken a great nuraber oi* 
prisoners ; all which were carried to several places by those who 
had taken them in the fight, in order to feast upon them, as was 
done here by these wretches upon those they brought hither. 

I caused Friday to gather up all the sculls, bones, flesh, and 
whatever remained, and lay them together in a heap, and make 
a great fire upon it, and burn them all to ashes. I found Friday 
had still a hankering stomach after some of the flesh, and was 
still a cannibal in his natu^re ; but I discovered so much abhor- 
rence, at the very thoughts of it, and at the least appearance ol' 
it, that he durst not discover it : for I had, by some means, let 
him know that I would kill him if he offered it. 

When he had done this, we came back to our Castle ; and there 
I feil to work for my man Friday : and, first of all, I gave him a 
pair of Knen drawers, which I had out of the poor gunner's ehest 
I mentioned which I found in the wreck; and which, with a 
little alteration, fitted him very well, and then I made him a 
jerkin of goat's skin, as well as my skill would allow (for I was 
now grown a tolerable good tailor) ; and I gave him a cap, which 
I made of hare's skin, very convenient and fashionable^ enough; 
and thus he was clothed for the present tolerably well, and wa^ 
mighty well pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as 
his master. It is true, he went awkwardly in those clothes at 
first : wearing the drawers was very awkward to him, and the 
sleeves of the waistcoat galled his Shoulders, and the inside of 
his arms ; but after a little easing them where he complained 
they hurt him, and using himself to them, he took to them at 
length very well. 



ROBINSON CKUSOE. 161 

The next day after I came hoine to my hutch with him, I began 
to consider where I should lodge him; and that I might do well 
for him, and yet be perfectly easy myselfj I made a litüe tent for 
him in the vacant place between my two fortifications, in the 
inside of the last and in the outside of the first. As there was a 
door or entrance there into my cave, I made a formal framed 
doorcase, and a door to it of boards, and set it up in the passaffe, 
a little within the entrance ; and causing the door to open in tne 
inside, I barred it up in the night, taking in my ladders too ; so 
that Friday could no way come at me in the inside of my inner- 
most wall, without making so much noise in getting over that it 
must needs waken me : for my first wall had now a complete 
roof over it of long poles, covering all my tent, and leaniug up to 
theside of the hiil; which was again laid across with smaller sticks, 
instead of laths, and then thatched over a great thickness with the 
rice-straw, which was strong, like reeds ; and at the hole or place 
which was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed a kind 
of trap door, which, if it had been attempted on the outside, 
would not have opened at all, but would have fallen down, and 
mnde a great noise : as to weapons, I took them all into my 
side every night. But I needed none of all this precaution ; for 
never man had a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than Friday 
was to me; without passions, sullenness, or designs, perfectly 
obliged and engaged — his very affections were tied to me, like 
those of a child to a father ; and I dare say, he would have sacri- 
liced his life for the saving mine upon any occasion whatsoever: 
the many testimonies he gave me of this put it out of doubt, and 
soon convinced me that 1 needed to use no precautions, as to my 
safety on his account. 

This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with> 
wonder, that however it had pleased God, in his providence, and 
in the govemment of the wörks of his hands, to take from so 
^eat a part of the world of his creatures the best uses to which 
their faculties and the powers of their souls are adapted, yet that 
he has bestowed upon them the same powers, the same reason, 
the same affections, the same sentiments of kindness and Obli- 
gation, the same passions and resentments of wrongs, the same 
sense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all the capacities ( 
doing good, and receiving good, that he has given to us ; and that 
when he pleases to offer them occasions of exerting these, theV 
are as ready, nay, more ready, to apply them to the right usel 
Ibr which they were bestowed, than we are. This made me Terj^ 
melancholy sometimes, in rcflecting, as the several occasions pre 
sented, how mean a use we make of all these, even though vdL 
liave these powers enlightened by the great lamp of instructi<m, 
ihe Spirit of God, and by the knowledge of bis word added to our 
\inderstanding; and why it has pleased God to hide the like saving 
knowledge from so many millions of souls, who, if I might judge 



162 



ADVENTÜRES OP 



hy this poor savage, would make a much better use of it than we 
did. From hence, I sometimes was led too far, to invade the 
sovereignty of Providence, and as it were arraign the justice of 
so arbitrary a disposition of tbings, that should bide that ligbt 
from some, and reveal it to otbers, and yet expect a like duty 
from botb ; but I sbut it up, and checked my tbougbts witb tbis 
conclusion : first, Tbat we did not know by wbat ligbt and law 
tbese sbould be condemned: but tbat as God was necessarily, and, 
by tbe nature of bis being, infinitely boly and just, so it could not 
be, but if tbese creatures were all sentenced to absence from bim- 
self, it was on account of sinning against tbat ligbt, wbicb, as tbe 
Scripture says, was a law to tbemselves, and by sucb rules as 
tbeir consciences would acknowledge to be just, tbougb tbe 
foundation was not discovered to us ; and, secondly, Tbat stiQ, 
as we all are tbe day in tbe band of tbe potter, no vessel could 
say to bim, Wby bast tbou formed me tbus ? 

But to return to my new companion : — I was greatly deligbted 
witb bim, and made it my business to teacb bim everytbing tbat 
was proper to make bim useful, bandy, and belpful ; but especiaUy 
to make bim speak, and understand me wben I spoke : and be 
was tbe aptest scbolar tbat ever was ; and particularly was so 
merry, so constantly diligent, and so pleased wben be could but 
understand me, or make me understand bim, tbat it was very 
pleasant to me to talk to bim. Now my life began to be so easy, 
tbat I began to say to myself, tbat coiild I but bave been safe 
from more savages, I cared not if I was never to remove from tbe 
place wbere I lived. ^' ' 




EOBINSON CRUSOE. 



163 



SECTION XXIII. 



ROBINSON INSTRÜCTS AND CIVILIZES HIB MAN FRIDAY. — ENDEA- 
OURS TO GJVE HIM AN IDEA OF CHIUSTJANITY. 

rAfTER I liffld been two or three days retiirned to my Castle, I 
ltht>ug;lu tbatv in order to bring Friday titt" IVom bis borrid \vi\y 
[of feediiiir» anci iTom tbe relisb of ii ciiuuih^Vs aionmdh l ougbt 
Ito let bim taste utbtrr flesb ; so I took Mm out with nie one 
roorning to tbe woods, I went, indeed, iutenditig to kill a kid out 
of my own tiock, and brin^ it bome iind dress it ; but as 1 was 
going, I saw a sbe-gont lyiiisj do\rn in thc sbadc, and twoyoung 
kids sitting by her, I catcbed bold of Fridav ; — ^Hold, said 1 ; 
stand still ; and mftde sij^ns tu bim not to ötir : immediutely 1 
presented my piece, sliot, and killed one of tbe kids. The poor 
creature, wbo had, at a dktance, indeed, seeii me kill tbe savage, 
bis enemy^ bnt did not kiiow, nor could iniagine, how it ivaa 
done, "was sensibly snrpnsed, tremblcd and hhuok, and looked 
90 amazed, that I iboiigbt be wovdd have sunk down, Ilt* did 
not See tb« kid 1 sbot at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped 
up bis waiatcoat, to feel wbether be was not wounded, and, as I 
found presently, tboxight I was res^olved tokill bnn : tbr becamo 
and kneeled down to rae, and embracing my knees, said a grcat 
many things 1 did not nnderstand ; but I could easily see thö 
mcaning was, to pray me not to kill bim, 

1 soou ibund a way to con^^ncc hira tbat I would do him no 
harra ; and takint^ him up by tbe hand» laugbed at him, and 
' pointing to tbe kid uliich I had killed» beckoned to him to run 
[fnd fetcb it, wbich be did; and wbile he was wand er in g, and 
ilooking to see how tbe creature was killed, I loaded my gun again. 
] By and by, 1 saw a g'i'eat fowl, bke a bawk* sittixuc upon a tree, 
\^itbiii sbot; so, to let Friday uuderstatid a bttle what I wouhi 



164 ADVENTURES OP 

do, I called Hm to me again, poiiited at the fowl, which was 
indeed a parrot, though I thought it had been a hawk ; I say, 
pointitig to the parrot, and to my gun, and to the ground under 
the parrot, to let him see I would make it fall, I made him 
understand that I would shoot aad kill that bird : accordingly, I 
fired, and bade him look, and immediately he saw the parrot fall. 
He stood like one frightened again, notwithstanding all I had 
Said to him ; and I found he was the more amazed, because he 
did not see me pei any thing into the gnn, but thought that 
there must be «mm wonderful fbnd of death and destruction in 
that thing, aUe to kSl man, beast, or bird, or any thing near or 
far off; and the astomshmatt thti cntled in him was such, as 
could not wear off fbr a long time ; and 1 believe, if I would have 
let him, he would have worshipped me and my gun. As for the 
gun itself, he would not so much as touch it for several days 
after ; but he would speak to it, and talk to it, as if it had an- 
swered him, when he was by himself ; which, as I afterwards 
leamed of him, was to desire it not to kill him. Well, after his 
astonishment was a little over at this, I pointed to him to run 
and fetch the bird I had shot, which he did, but stayed some 
time; for the parrot, not being quite dead, had fluttered away a 
good distance from the place where she feil : however, he found 
her, took her up, and brought her to me ; and as I had perceived 
his ignorance about the gun before, I took this advantage to 
Charge the gun again, and not to let him see me do it, that I 
might be ready for any other mark that might present ; but no- 
thing more offered at that time : so I brought home the kid, and 
the same evening I took the skin off, and cut it out as well as I 
could ; and having a pot fit for that purpose, I boiled or stewed 
some of the flesh, and made some very good broth. After I had 
begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed very 
glad of it, and liked it very well : but that which was strängest 
to him, was to see me eat salt with it. He made a sign to me 
that the salt was not good to eat ; and putting a little into his 
mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and sputter at 
it, washing his mouth with fresh water after it : on the other 
band, I took some meat into my mouth without salt, and I pre- 
tended to spit and sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done 
at the salt ; but it would not do ; he would never care for salt 
with his meat or in his broth ; at least, not for a great while, and 
then but very little. 

Having thus fed him with boüed meat and broth, I was resolved 
to feast him the next day with roasting a piece of the kid : this 
I did, by hanging it before the fire on a string, as I had seen 
many people do in England, setting two poles up, one on each 
side of the fire, and one across on the top, and tying the string 
to the cross stick, letting the meat turn continually. This Friday 
admired very much : but when he came to taste the flesh, he took 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 1C5 

SO many ways to teil me how well he liked it, that I could nofc 
but understand him ; and at last he -told me, as well as he could, 
he would never eat man's flesh any more, which I was very glad 
to hear. 

The next day I set him to work to beating some com out, and 
sifting it in the manuer I used to do, as I observed before ; and 
he soon understood how to do it as well as I, espedally after he 
had Seen what the meaning of it was, and tbat it was to make 
bread of it : for after that I let him see me make my bread, and 
bake it too ; and in a little time Friday was able to do all the 
work for me, as well as I could do it myself. 

I began no w to consider, that having two mouths to feed instead 
of one, I must provide more ground for my harvest, and plant a 
larger quantity of corn than I used to do : so I marked out a 
larger piece of land, and began the fence in the same manner as 
before, in which Friday worked not only very wülingly and very 
hard, but did it very cheerfully : and I told him what it was for ; 
that it was for com to make more bread, because he was now 
with me, and that I might have enough for him and myself too. 
He appeared very sensible of that part, and let me kuow that 
he thought I had much more labour upon me on his account 
than I had for myself; and that he would work the harder forme, 
if I would teil him what to do. 

This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this place. 
Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the names 
of almost every thing I had occasion to cal} for, and of every 
place I had to send him to, and talked a great deal to me ; so 
that, in short, I began now to have some use for my tongue again, 
which, indeed, I had very little occasion for before, that is to say, 
about speech. Besides the pleasure of talking to him, I had a 
Singular satisfaction in the fellow himself : his simple, unfeigned 
honcsty appeared to me more and more every day, and I began 
really to love the creature ; and, on his side, I believe he loved 
me more than it wa^ possible for him ever to love any thing 
before. 

I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering inclination 
to his own country again ; and having taught him English so 
well that he could answer me almost any question, I asked him 
whether the nation that he belonged to never conquered in bat- 
tle ? At which he smiled, and said, Yes, yes, we always fight the 
better : that is, he meant, always get the better in fight; and so 
we began the following discourse : — 

Master. You always fight the better? how came you to be 
taken prisoner then, Friday ? 

Friday. My nation beat much, for all that. 

Master. How beat ? If your nation beat them, how came you 
to be taken ? 

Friday. They more m«,:iy than my nation in the place whero 



166 AD VENTURE OP 

me was ; they take one, two, three, and me ; my nation overbeat 
them in the yonder place, where me no was j there my natiou 
take one, two, great thousand. 

Master. But why did not your side recover you from the 
bands of your enemies, then ? 

Friday. Tbey ruu one, two, three, and me, and make go in 
the canoe ; my nation have no canoe tbat time. 

Master. Well, Friday, andwbat.does your nation do with 
the men they take? Do they carry them away and cat them, as 
these did ? 

Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too ; eat all up. 

Master. "Where do they carry them ? 

Friday. Go to other place, where they think. 

Master. Do they come hither? 

Friday, Yes, yes, they come hither ; come other eise place. 

Master. Have you been here with them? 

Friday. Yes, I have been here ; (points to the N. w. side of the 
bland, which, it seems, was their side.) 

By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly been 
among the savages who used to come on shore on the farther 
part of the Island, on the same man-eating occasions he was 
now brought for : and some time after, when I took the courage 
to carry him to that side, being the same I formerly mentioned, 
he presently knew the place, and told me he was there once 
when they eat up twenty men, two women, and one child : he 
could not teil twenty in English, but he numbered them, by 
laying so many stones in a row, and pointing to me to teil them 
over. 

1 have told this passage, because it introduces what foUows ; 
that after I had this discourse with him, I asked him how far it 
was from our Island to the shore, and whether the canoes were 
not often lost. He told me there was no danger, no canoes ever 
lost ; but that, after a little way out to sea, there was a current 
and wind, always one way in the moming, Üie other in the after- 
noon. This I understood to be no more than the sets of the tide, 
as going out or Coming in ; but I afterwards understood it was 
occasioned by the great draft and reflux of the mighty river 
Oroonoko, in the mouth or gulf of which river, as I found after- 
wards, our Island lay ; and that this land which I perceived to 
the w. and N. w. was the great Island Trinidad, on the north point 
of the mouth of the river. I asked Friday a thousand questions 
about the country, the inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and what 
nations were near : he told me all he knew, with the greatest 
openness imaginable. I asked him the names of the several 
nations of his sort of people, but could get no other name than 
Caribs : from whence I easily understood, that these were the 
Caribbees, which our maps place on the part of America which 
reaches from the mouth of the river Oroonoko to Guiana, and 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 167 

onwards to St. Martha. He told me that iip a great wajr beyond 
the moon, that was, beyond the setting of the moon, which must 
be west from their country, there dwelt white bearded men, like 
me, and pointed to my great whiskers, which I mentioned before; 
and that they had kilLed much mans, that was his word : by all 
which I understood, he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in 
America had been spread over the whole country, and were re- 
membered by all the nations, from father to son. 

I inquired if he could teil me how I might go from this Island 
and get among those white men : he told me, Yes, yes, you may 
go in two canoe. I could not nnderstand what he meant, or 
make him describe to me what he meant by two canoe ; tili, at 
last, with great difiQculty, I found he meant it must be in a large 
boat, as big as two canoes. This part of Friday's discourse 
began to relish with me very well ; and from this time I enter- 
tained some hopes that, one time or other, I might find an op- 
portunity to make my escape from this place, and that this poor 
savage might be a means to help me. 

During the long time that Friday had now been with me, and 
that he began to speak to me, and understand me, I was not 
wanting to lay a foundation of religious knowledge in his mind : 
particularly I asked him, one time, who made him ? The poor 
creature did not understand me at all, but thought I had asked 
him who was his father ; but I took it up by another handle, 
and asked him who made the sea, the ground we walked on, and 
the hills and woods ? He told me, it was one old Benamuckee, 
that lived beyond all ; he could describe nothing of this great 
person, but that he was very old, much older, he said, than the 
sea or the land, than the moon or the stars. I asked him then, 
if this old person had made all things, why did not all things 
worship him ? He looked very grave, and with a perfect look 
of innocence said, All things say O to him. I asked him if the 
people who die in his country went away any where ? He said, 
Yes ; they all went to Benamuckee : then I asked him whether 
these they ate up went thither too ? He said, Yes. 

From these things I began to instruct him in the knowledge 
of the true God : I told him that the great Maker of all thiugs 
lived up there, pointing up towards heaven ; that he governed 
the World by the sarae power and providence by which he made 
it ; that he was omnipotent, and could do every thing for us, 
ffive everything to us, take every thing from us ; and thus, by 
degrees, I opened his eyes. He listened with great attention, 
and received with pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ being sent 
to redeem us, and of the manner of making our prayers to God, 
and his being able to hear us, even in heaven. He told me one 
day, that il* our God could hear us up beyond the sun, he must 
needs be a grcater God than their Benamuckee ,who lived but a 
littlc way olF, and yet could not hear tili they went up to the 



168 ADVKNTÜRES OP 

great moontains where lie dwelt to speak to bim. I asked him 
tf ever he went thither to speak to him ? He said, No ; they 
never went that were young men : none went tliither but tbe 
old men, wbom be called thebr Oowokakee ; tbat is, as I made 
bun explam it to me, tbeir religious, or clergy ; and tbat tbey 
went to say O (so be called saying prayers), and tben came 
back, and told tbem wbat Benamuckee said. By tbis I ob- 
served, tbat tbere is priestcraft even among tbe most blinded, 
Ignorant pagans in tbe world ; and tbe policy of making a secret 
of religion, in order to preserve tbe veneration of tbe people to 
tbe clergy, is not only to be found in tbe Roman, but perbaps 
among all religions in tbe world, even among tbe most brutisb 
and barbarous savages. 

I endeavoiired to clear up tbis fraud to my man Friday ; and 
told bun, tbat tbe pretence of tbeir old men going up to tbe 
mountains to say O to tbeir god Benamuckee was a cbeat ; and 
tbeir bringing word frora tbence wbat be said was mucb more 
so ; tbat if they met with any answer, or spake with any one 
tbere, it must be with an evil spirit ; and tben I entered into a 
long discourse with bim about tbe devil, tbe original of bim, bis 
rebellion against God, bis enmity to man, tbe reason of it, bis 
setting bimself up in tbe dark parts of tbe world to be wor- 
sbipped instead of God, and as God, and tbe many stratagems 
be made use of to delude mankind to tbeir ruin ; how be bad a 
secret access to our passions and to our affections, and to adapt 
bis snares to our inclinations, so as to cause us even to be our 
own tempters, and run upon our destruction by our own cboice. 

I found it was not so easy to imprint rigbt notions in bis mind 
about tbe devil, as it was about tbe being of a God : nature as- 
sisted all my arguments to evidence to bim even tbe necessity of 
a great First Cause, and overruling, governing Power, a secret, 
directing Providence, and of tbe equitv and justice of paying 
bomage to bim tbat made us, and tbe like ; but there appeared 
notbing of tbis kind in tbe notion of an evil spirit ; of bis ori- 
ginal, bis being, bis nature, and, above all, of bis inclination to 
do evil, and to draw us iii to do so too : and tbe poor creature 
piizzled me once in such a manner, by a question merely natural 
and innocent, tbat I scarce knew wbat to say to bim. I bad 
been talking a great deal to bim of tbe power of God, bis om- 
nipoteuce, bis aversion to sin, bis being a consuming fire to tbe 
workers of iniquity ; bow, as be bad made us all, be could 
destroy us and all tbe world in a moment ; and be listened with 
great seriousness to me all tbe wbile. After tbis, I bad been 
telling bim bow tbe devü was God's enemy in tbe bearts of men, 
and used all bis malice and skill to defeat tbe good designs of 
Providence, and to ruin tbe kingdom of Christ in tbe world, and 
tbe like. Well, says Friday, but you say God is so strong, so 
great ; is bc not mucb strong, rauch might as tbe devil ? — Yes, 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 169 

yes, says I. Friday, God is stronger than the devil : God is 
above the devil, and therefore we pray to God to tread him 
down under our feet, and enable us to resist liis temptations» 
and quench bis fiery darts. But, says be again, if God mucli 
stronger, mucb migbt as tbe devil, wby God no kill the devil, so 
make him no more do wicked ? I was strangely surprised at 
this question ; and, after all, tbough I was now an old man, yet 
I was but a young doctor, and ill qualified for a casnist, or a 
solver of difficulties ; and, at first, I could not teil what to say ; 
so I pretended not to bear him, and asked him what he said; bat 
he was too eamest for an answer, to forget bis question, so that 
be repeated it in tbe very same broken words as above. By 
this time I had recovered myself a little, and I said, God will at 
last punish him severely ; he is reserved for tbe judgment, and 
is to De cast into the bottomless pit, to dwell witb everlasting 
fire. This did not satisfy Friday; but be retums upon me, re- 
peating my words, Reserve at last : me no understand ; but why 
not kifl the devil now ; not kill great ago ? — You may as weU 
ask me, said I, wby God does not kill you and me, when we do 
wicked things here that offend him? We are preserved to 
repent and be pardoned. He mused some time on this. Well, 
well, says he, mighty aflfectionately, that well : so you, I, devil, 
all wicked, all preserve, repent, God pardon all. Here I was 
run down again by him to the last degree ; and it was a testi- 
mony to me, bow the mere notions of nature, though they will 
guide reasonable creatures to tbe knowledge of a God, and of a 
worship or homage due to the supreme being of God, as the 
consequence of our nature, yet nothing but divine revelation can 
form the knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of redemption pur- 
chased for us, of a Mediator of the new covenant, and of an In- 
tercessor at the footstool of God's throne : I say, notbing but a 
revelation from Heaven can form these in tbe soul ; and that, 
therefore, the gospel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, 
I mean tbe Word of God, and the Spirit of God, promised for 
the guide and sanctifier of bis people, are the absolutely neces- 
sary instructors of the souls of men in tbe saving knowledge of 
God, and tbe means of salvation. 

I therefore diverted tbe present discoursfe between me and my 
man, rising up hastily, as upon some sudden oecasion of going 
out : then sending bim for soraething a good way off, I seriously 
prayed to God that he would enable me to instruct savingly this 
poor savage ; assisting, by bis Spirit, the beart of tbe poor igno- 
rant creature to receive the light of tbe knowledge of God in 
Christ, reconciling bim to himself, and would guide me to speak 
so to him from the word of God, as bis conscience migbt be con- 
vinced, bis eyes opened, and bis soul saved. When be came 
again to me, I entered into a long discourse with bim upon the 
subject of the redemption of man by the Saviour of the world, 



170 ADVENTÜRES OF 

and of the doctrine of the gospel preacbed from heaven, viz. of 
repentance towards God, and faith in our blessed Lord Jesus. 
I then explained to him, as well as I could, why our blessed 
Redeemer took not on him the nature of angels, but the seed of 
Abraham ; and how, for that reason, the fallen angels had no 
share in the redemption ; that he came only to the lost sheep of 
the house of Israel, and the like. 

I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all the 

methods I took for this poor creature's Instruction, and must 

acknowledge, what I believe all that actupon the same principle 

will find, that in laying things open to him, I really informed 

and instructed myself in many things that either I did not know, 

or had not fully considered before, but which occurred naturally 

to my mind upon searchiug into them, for the Information of 

this poor savage; and I had more affection in my inquiry after 

jthings upon this occasion than ever I feit before : so that, 

[whether this poor wild wretch was the better for me or no, I had 

Igreat reason to be thankful that ever he came to me ; my grief 

Isat lighter upon me ; my habitation grew comfortable to me be- 

1 yond measure ; and when I reflected, that in this sohtary life 

I which I had been confined to, I had not only been moved to lock 

' up to Heaven myself, and to seek to the band that had brought 

me here, but was now to be made an Instrument, under Pro- 

vidence, to save the life, and, for aught I knew, the soul, of a 

j)oor savage, and bring him to the true knowledge of religion, 

jjjand of the Christian doctrine, that he might know Christ Jesus, 

. JM jj in whom is life eternal ; I say, when I reflected upon all these 

\^ %rl things, a secret joy ran through every part of my soul, and 

/ ^ f I frequently rejoiced that ever 1 was brought to this place, which 

j'X j I had so often thought the most dreadful of all afflictions that 

Ol* §/ could possibly have befallen me. 

Jr I continued in th>3 thankful frame all the remainder of my time ; 

J^ and the conversation which employed the hours between Friday 
^ and me was such, as made the three years which we lived there 

\ together perfectly and completely happy, if auy such thing as 

complete happiness can be formed in a sublunary state. This 
savage was now a good Christian, a much better than I ; though 
I have reason to hope, and bless God for it, that we were equally 
penitent, and comforted, restored penitents. We had here the 
Word of God to read, and no farther off from his Spirit to instruct, 
than if we had been in England. I always applied myself, in 
reading the Scriptures, to let him know, as well as I could, the 
meaning of what I readj and he again, by his serious inquiries 
and questionings, made me, as I said before, a much better 
Scholar in the Scripture-knowledge than I should ever have been 
i)y my own mere private reading. Another thing I cannot refrain 
from observing here also, from experience in this retired part of 
my life, viz. how infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is that 



ROBINSON CSUSOE. 



171 



the knowledge of Goil, and of the {loctrinc of salvation by Christ 
Jesus, is so plainly laid down in the word of God^ so easy to be 
recehed and iinderstood, that, as the^ bare reading tlie Scriptiire 
made me capable of imderatandiog enoiigh of ray duty to carry 
me directly on to tlje great work of siiicere repentance for my 
sins, and laying hold of a Saviour for Ufe aiid salvatiouj to a 
stated reforraation in practice, and obedience to all God's com- 
mandsj and this without any teaclier or instructor, I inean human ;l 
ao^ tlxesameplaiii instnictioii sofficienlly served to tlie enli^hten- 
ing this savage crcature, and brin^ng him to be such a Christian, 
as I have known few equal to him in my life, 

As to all the disputes, wran^ling, strite, and contention, which 
have happened in the world abont religion, ivhether niceties in 
doctrinea, or schemes of cbnrch govemnient, they were all per- 
fectly uselcss to ns, and for ansaht 1 can yet see^ they have been 
so to the rest of the world. We had the siire guide to heaven, 
¥12* the Word of God ; and we bad, blessed be God^ comfortable 
"views of the Spirit of God tcaching and instnicting üb by his 
Word, leadinj? un into all truth, and making us both willing and 
obedient to the Instruction of his word. And I cannot aee the 
least use that the greatest kuowledge of the disputed pointa of 
religion, whicK have made such cooftisious in the world, would 
Have been to ua, if we could have obtained it. — Bot I rauat go ou 
with the hiätorical pari of Ihinga, and take cvery part in its order. 




172 



ADVENTÜRES OF 




SECTION XXIV. 



KOBINSON AND FRroAY BÜILD A CANOE TO CARRY THEM TO 
FRIDAY'S COÜNTRY. — ^THEIR SCHEME PREVENTED BY THE AR- 
RIVAL OF A PARTY OF SAVA6ES. 

After Triday and I became more intimately acquainted, and tliat 
he could understand almost all I said to him, and speak pretty 
fluenüy, though in broken English, to me, I acquainted him with 
my oiirn history, or at least so much of it as related to my Coming 
to this place; how I had lived here, and how long: I let him into 
the mystery, for such it was to him, of gunpowder and bullet, and 
taught him how to shoot. I gave hun a knife, which he was 
wonderfully delighted with; and I made him a belt with a frog 
hanging to it, such as in England we wear hangers in; and in the 
irog, instead of a banger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only 
as good a weapon, in some cases, but much more useful upon 
other occasions. 

I described to him the coimtry of Europe, particularly England, 
which I came from; how we lived, how we worshipped God, how 
we behaved to one another, and how we traded in ships to all 

?arts of the world. 1 gave him an account of the wreck which 
had been on board of, and showed him« aa near as I could^ the 
place where she lay ; but she was all beaten in pieces before, and 
gone. I showed him the mijuis of our boat, which we lost when 
we escaped, and which I could not stir with my whole strength 
then; but was now fallen «dmost all to pieces. Upon seeing this 
boat, Friday stood musing a ffreat while, and said nothing. I 
asked him what it was he studied upon? At last, says he, Me 
see such boat like come to place at my nation. I did not under- 
stand him a good while; but, at last, when I had examined farther 
into it, I imderstood by him, that a boat, such as that had been, 
came on shore upon the country where he lived; that is, as he 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 173 

explained it, was driven tliUber by stress of weatLer. I prcsenUy 
imag;ined that some European ship mu^t liave been cast away 
lipon their coast, and the boat migbt gct loose, and drive asbore; J 
but was so duU, tbat I never once tiiought of men making tbeir 
escape from a wreck tbilbcrj mucli lesa wlience they miglit come : 
&o I onlj inquircd after a description of tlie boat. 

Friday described tlie boatto me well eafmgh; but brongbt rae 
better to imderstaüdbim wlien he added, with some warmfh, We 
aave the Tvliite mans from drown. Then I presently asked Mm, 
if tbere were any white mang, as be called tbem, in tlie boatf ] 
Yes, he said ; the boat füll of white mana. I asked bim bow many * 
He told lipon Ms fingers seventeen, I asked bim Ihen wbat bc- 
came of them ? He told me, They live, they dwell at ray aaüon« 

This put new thoughts into my head ; for I presently imagined 
tbat these might be the roeu belonging to tbe sbip that was caat 
away in tbe sight of my Island, as I iio w called it ; aiid who, after 
the ship was Struck on tbe rock, and tbey saw her mevitably lost, 
Lad saved themseh es in tbeir boat, and were landcd upon that 
wild sbore among tbe savages* Upon this, 1 inquired of him 
more critirjilly what waa become of tbem ; be assured me they 
li\'ed still there ; tbat tliey had been tbere about four years ; tbat 
the savages let tbem aU/ne, and gave them victuals to live on. 
I asked bim bow it came to pass they did not kiU them, and eat 
them 7 He said, No, tbey make brother witli them ; that is, as I 
imderstood him, a truce ; and then hc added, They no eat mans 
but when make the war ßgbt; tbat in to say, they never eat 
any men but such as come to figbt with them, and are taken in 
battle. 

It was after this some considerable time, that, being upon the 
top of the hill, at the eai^t side of the ialand, from w bence, as I 
have said, I had, in a elear day, discovered the main or continent 
of America, Friday, tbe weather being very serene, looks very 
eamestly towards the main laud* and, in a kind of surprise, falls 
a jvimpiug and dancing, and calls out to me, for I was at some 
di^tauce from bim- I asked bim what was the matter? joy I 
saya he ; O glad I tbere see my country, there my nation ! 1 ob- 
served au extraordinary sense of plcasure appeared in his face, 
and his eyea sparkled, and bis countenance discovered a stränge 
eagerness, as if he bad a mind to be in his own country again. 
Tills Observation of mine put a great many thoughts into me, 
whicb made me at first not so easy about my new man, Friday, 
03 I w»i3 before ; and I made na doubt but that if Friday could 
g*et hack to bis own nation agaüi, be would not only forget all 
Li» rebgion, but all bis Obligation to me, and would he forward 
enougb to give bis countrymen an accouut of me» and come back 
pcrhaps with a lumdred or two of tbem, and make a feast upon 
me, at whicb he might be as merry aa hc used to be with tbose 
ot'biö enemies, when they were taken in war. But I wronged 

N 2 



174 ADVENTURES OP 

the poor honest creature very much, for which I was very sorry 
afterwards. However, as my jealousy increased, and held me 
some weeks, I was a little more circumspect, and not so familiär 
and kind to him as before : in which I was certainly in the wrong 
too ; the honest, grateM creature having no thought about it, 
but what consisted with the best principles, both as a religious 
Christian, and as a grateful friend, as appeared afterwards to my 
füll satisfaction. 

While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was every 
day pumping him, to see if he would discover any of the new 
thoughts which I suspected were in him : but I found everythiug 
he Said was so honest and so innocent, that I could find nothing 
to nourish my suspicion ; and, in spite of all my uneasiness, he 
made me at last entirely his own again ; nor did he, in the least, 

Eerceive that I was uneasy, and therefore I could not suspect 
im of deceit. 

One day, Walking up the same hill, but the weather being hazy 
at «ea, so that we could not see the contineut, I called to him, 
and Said, Friday, do not you wish yourself in your own country, 
your own nation? — ^Yes, he said, I be much O glad to be at my 
own nation. — What would you do there ? said I : would you turn 
wild again, eat men's filesh again, and be a savage, as you were 
before ? He looked füll of concem, and shaking his head, said, 
No, no ; Friday teU them to live good, teil them to pray God, 
teil them to eat com-bread, cattle-flesh, mük ; no eat man again. — 
Why then, said I to him, they will kill you. He looked grave 
at that, and then said, No, no ; they no kill me, they willing love 
leam. He meant by this, they would be willing to leam. He 
added, they leamed much of the bearded mans that came in the 
boat. Then I asked him if he would go back to them. He 
smUed at that, and told me that he could not swim so far. I told 
him, I would make a canoe for him. He told me he would go, 
if I would go with him. I go ? says I ; why, they wiU eat me, 
if I come there. — No, no, says he ; me make they no eat you ; me 
make they much love you. He meant, he would teil them how 
I had killed his enemies, and saved his life, and so he would make 
them love me. Then he told rae, as well as he could, how kind 
they were to seventeen white men, or bearded men, as he called 
them, who came on shore there in distress. 

From this time, I confess I had a mind to venture over, and 
see if I could possibly join with those bearded men, who, I made 
no doubt, were Spauiards and Portuguese : not doubting but if I 
could, we might find some method to escape from thence, being 
upon the continent, and a good Company together, better than 1 
could from an Island forty miles off the shore, and alone, without 
help. So, after some days, I took Friday to work again, by way 
of discourse ; and told him I would give him a boat to go back 
to his own nation ; and accordingly I carried him to my frigate, 



EOBINSON CRUSOE* 



175 



which lay on the other side of tlie 



Ij and ba%'ingf ,cleared it 
ivatür) I brought it out, 
showed it Inm, aod we both went into it, I found he was a most 
dexterous fellow at mnnoging; it, and would mnke it go almost 
as swift agaiu na J couid. So wlien lie was in, I said to liim, 
Well, now, Friday, shall we go to yournation? He looked very 
dull at my sayincr so; wbich, it seems, waa because he ttiought 
the boat too small to go so far ; 1 then told him I had a bigger; 
so the next day I iv ent to the place where the firsl boat lay wlüeb 
I had made, but which I could not f^et into the water. He said 
that w as big enongb : but then, as I had taken no care of it, and 
it had lain tvvo or three-and-twciity years therCj the siin had split 
and dried it, that it was in a manner rotten. Friday told me 
such a boat wonld do very well, and would carry much enough 
vittle, drink, brcad; that was bis way of talking. 

Upon the whole, I was by this time so iixcd upon my design 
of going over with him to the continent, that I told hira we would 
go and make one as big as that, and he should go hoinc in it. 
He anäwered not one wordj biit looked very grave and sad. I 
abked him what was the matter with bim ? He asked me again, 
Why you angry mad with Friday? AVhat me done? I asked 
him what he meant ? I told hira I was not angry with him at 
nlL No angry? says he, repeating the words several times ; 
Why send Friday home away to my nation ? — Why, says I, Fri- 
day, did not you say you wislied you were there ? — ^ Yes, yes^ says 
he, wishbtj both there ; no wkh Friday there, no mastcr there. In 
a Word, he would not tbink of going there without me. I go 
there, Friday ! says T ; what shall I do there ? He returned very 
quick upon me at this i You do great deal much good, says he ; 
you teach wild mans be good, sober, tarne mans ; you teil them 
know Göd, pray God, and live nevv life, — Älas ! Friday, says 
I, thou knowest not what thou sayest ; I am but an ignorant man 
myself — Yes, yes, says he, you teachee me good, you teachee 
them good* — No» no, Friday, says I, you shall go without nie 
leave me here to hve by myaelf, aa 1 did before. He looked con- 
fused again at that word ; and running to one of the hatchets wb ich 
he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, and gives it to me. What 
must I do with this? says I to him. You takc kill Friday, says 
he. What niust I kill you for ? said I again. He rctums very 
quick, What you send Friday away for ? Take kill Friday, no 
Kend Friday away. ThiB he spoke so earncjstly, that I saw tears 
stand in bis eycs : in a word, 1 so plainly discovered the utmost 
affection in hira to mc, and a tirm resolution in bimr that I told 
bim then, and ol'tcn after, that 1 would never 8end hj^n away 
from mc^ \£ he was vrilling to atay with me. 

Upon the whole, as I found, by all bis discourse, a settled 
affection to me, and that nothing should part bim from me, so I 
found all the foundadon of bis deaire to go tu bis owu country 



176 ADVENTURES OP 

was laid in his ardent affection to the people, and liis hopes of my 
doing them good ; a thing, whicb, as I kad no notion of myseli', 
so I had not the least thought, or Intention, or desire, of under- 
taking it. But still I found a strong indination to my attempting 
«n escäf^, äs'above^founded on the supposition- gathered from 
the'discoiirse, viz.-that thereiffere seventeen bearded joiotl there • 
and,- thetefore, without any morie delay, I went to work with 
Priday, to find out a gteat tree projper to feil, and-make a largo 
periagua, or canoe, to nudertake the voyage. There were trees 
enOiigh in the island to have built a litüe fleet; not of periaguas, 
or canoes, bat even of good laige vessels ; : but the main thing I 
looked at was, to. get one so near the water that we might launch 
it when it was made, to avoid the mistake I committed at first. 
At last, j^ridäy pitched upon a tree ; for I foiind he knew much 
better than I what kind of wood was fittest for it; nor can I teU, 
tö this day, what wood to call the :tree we cut down, e^Lcept that 
at was A^ery like the tree we call fustic, or between tiiat and the 
Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the same colour and smell. 
triday wa^ for buming the hollow or cavity of this tree oüt, to 
make it for a boat, but I showed him how to cut it witk tools ; 
which, -a^er I had showed him how to use, he did very handily : 
■and in about a month's hard labour we iinished it, and made it 
veiy handsome ; especially when, with our axes^ which I showed 
him how to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into the true 
fihape of a boat. After this, however, it cost us near afortnight's 
time to get her along, as it were inch by inch, upon great roUers, 
into the water ; but when she was ini, she woidd have carried 
twenty men with great ease. 

When she was in the water, and though she was so big, it 
amazed me to see with what dexterity, and how swift my man 
Friday would manage her, tum her, and paddle her along. So I 
äsked him if he would, and if we might, venture over in her. 
Yes, he said ; we venture over in her very weU, though great 
blow wind. However, I had a further design, that he knew 
nothing of, and that was to make a mast and a sali, and to fit 
her with an anchor and cable. As to a mast, that was easy enough 
to get : so I pitched upon a straight young cedar tree, which I 
found near the place, and which there were great plenty of in 
the island ; and 1 sei Friday to work to cut it down, and gave 
him directions how to shape and order it. But as to the sali, 
that was my particular care. I knew 1 had old sails, or rather 
pieces of old sails, enough ; but as I had had them now six-and- 
twenty years bv me, and had not been very careful to preserve 
them, not imagining that 1 should ever have this kind of use for 
Üiem, I did not doubt but they were all rotten, and, indeed, most 
of them were so. However, I found two pieces, which appeared 
pretty good, and with these I went to work ; and with a great 
deal of pains, and awkward stitching, you may be sure, for want 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 177 

of needles, I, at length, made a tliree-comered xigly thing, like 
wliat we call in England a shoulder-of-mutton saU, to go with a 
boom at bottom, and a little sbort sprit at tbe top, Bucb as usually 
our ship's long-boats sail with, and Buch as I best knew bow to 
manage, as it was such a one I bad to tbe boat in wbich I made 
my escape firom Barbary, as related in tbe first part of my 
Story. 

I was near two montbs performing this last work, yiz. rigging 
and fitting my mast and sajls ; for I finished tbem yery complete, 
making a small stay, and a sail, or foresail, to it, to assist, if we 
sbould turn to windward ; and, wbich was more than all, I fixed 
a rudder to tbe stern of her to steer with. I was but a bungling 
sbipwrigbt, yet, as I knew tbe osefulness, and even necessily 
of such a tlung, I applied myself with so much pains to do it, 
that at last I brought it to pass ; thougb, considering tbe many 
dull contrivances I bad for it that failed, I tbink it cost me almost 
as much labour as making tbe boat. 

After all tbis was done, I bad my man Friday to teach as to 
wbat belonged to tbe navigation of my boat ; for, thougb he 
knew yery well how to paddle a canoe, he knew notbing wbat 
belonged to a sail and a rudder ; and was tbe most amazed wben 
he saw m^s work tbe boat to and again in tbe sea by tbe rudder, 
and how tbe sail gibbed, and Med tbis way, or that way, as tbe 
course we sailed changed ; I say, wben he saw tbis, he stood 
Uke one astonished and amazed. However, with a little use, I 
made all these things familiär to bim, and he became an expert 
sailor, except that, as to tbe compass I could make bim under- 
stand very Uttle of that. On tbe other band, as there was very 
little cloudy weatber, and seldom or never any fogs in those 
parts, there was tbe less occasion for a compass, seeing tbe stars 
were always to be seen by night, and tbe shore by day, except in 
tbe rainy seasons, and tben nobody cared to stir abroad, either 
by land or sea. 

I was now entered on tbe seven-and-twentieth year of my 
captivity in this place ; thougb tbe three last years that I bad 
tbis creature with me ought ratber to be left out of tbe account, 
my babitation being quite of another kind than in all tbe rest 
of tbe time. I kept tbe anniversary of my landing bere with 
tbe same tbankfulness to God for bis mercies as at first ; and if I 
bad such cause of acknowledgment at first, I bad much more so 
now, having such additional testimonies of tbe care of Providence 
over me, and tbe great hopes I bad of being efPectually and 
speedily delivered ; for I bad an invincible Impression upon my 
tnougbts that my deliverance was at band, and that I sbould 
not be another year in this place. I went on, bowever, with 
my busbandry; digging, plantins, and fendng, as usual. I 
gathered and cured my grapes, and did every necessary thing aa 
before. 



178 ADVENTURES OP 

The rainy season was, in the mean time, upon me, when I kept 
more within doors than at other times. We had stowed our 
own yessel as secure as we could, bringmg her up into the creek, 
where, as I said in the beginning, I landed my rafts from the 
ship ; and hauling her up to the shore, at high-water mark, I 
made my man Friday dig a little dock, just big enough to hold 
her, and just deep enough to give her water enough to float in ; 
and then, when the tide was out, we made a strong dam across 
the end of it, to keep the water out ; and so she lav dry, as to the 
tide, from the sea : and to keep the rain oflP, we laid a great many 
boughs of trees, so thick, that she was as well thatched as a 
house ; and thus we waited for the months of November and 
December, in which I designed to make my adventure. 

When the settled season began to come in, as the thought 
of my design retumed with the fairweather, I was preparing daily 
for the voyage, and the first thing I did was to lay by a certain 
quantity of provisions, being the Stores for our voyage ; and 
intended, in a week or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and 
launch out our boat. I was busy one morning upon something 
of this kind, when I called to Friday, and bid him go to the sea- 
shore, and see if he could find a turtle, or tortoise, a thing which 
we generally got once a week, for the sake of the eggs as well as 
the flesh. Friday had not been long gone, when he came running 
back, and flew over my outer wall, or fence, like one that feit not 
the ground, or the steps he set his feet on ; and before I had time 
to speak to him, he cries out to me, O master ! O master ! O 
sorrow ! O bad ! — What's the matter, Friday? says I. O yonder, 
there, says he, one, two, three canoe ; one, two, three ! By this 
way of speaking, I concluded there were six ; but, on inquiry, I 
found it was but three. Well, Friday, says I, do not be frightened! 
So I heartened him up as well as I could: however, I saw the 
poor fellow was most terribly scared : for nothing ran in his head 
but that they were come to look for him, and would cut him in 
pieces, and eat him ; and the poor fellow trembled so, that I 
scarce knew what to do with him. I comforted him as well as I 
could, and told him I was in as much danger as he, and that they 
would eat me as well as him. But, says I, Friday, we must 
resolve to fight them. Can you fight, Friday ? — Me shoot, says 
he ; but there come many great number. — No matter for that, 
Said I, again ; our guns wiU fright them that we do not kill. So 
I asked him whether, if I resolved to defend him, he would 
defend me, and stand by me ; and do just as I bid him. He said, 
Me die, when you bid die, master. So I went and fetched a good 
dram of rum and gave him ; for I had been so good a husband 
of my rum, that I had a great deal left. When he drank it, I 
made him take the two fowling-pieces, which we always carried, 
and loaded them with large swan-shot, as big as small pistol- 
buUets ; then I took four muskets, and loaded them with two 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 17Ö 

slugB, and five small bullets cacli ; and tiiy two pistols I loaded 
wiüi a brace of biillets cftcli ; I bung niy "freat sword, as usual, 
naked by my ßide ; and gave Friday bis hatcliet Wheti I bad 
tbus prepated myself, l took my perspective glass, and vvent up 
to the side of tbe hill, to sec wbat I could diäcovcr ] a^ud I ibund. 
quickly, by my glass, that tbere were one-and-twenty savages, 
lliree prisoners, and three cauoes ; and tbat tlicir wliole busiuMS 
seemed to be tbe triumphant banquet upon tbese tbree liuman 
bodies; a barbaroua feast mdeed 1 but natbing more tlian, 
as I liad observed, was usnal with them. I obigen ed also, that 
tbey Tvere landed, not wbere tbey bad done wben Friday niade 
Hfl escape, but nearer to my creek : wbere tlie sbore was low, 
and wbere a tbick wood came almost close down to tbe sea* 
Tbk, with tbe abborrence of tbe inbuman errand tbese wretches 
came about, fiUed me ivith sucb indignation» tbat I came down 
again to Friday, and told bim l was resolved to go down to tbcra 
and kill them all ; and asked bim if he would stand by me. He 
bad now got over bis fright, and liis spirits being a little raised 
ivitb tbe dram 1 bad givcn bim, he was vcry ciieerful, and told 
me, as before, be would die wben I bkl die. 

In tbis fit of fiiry, 1 took and di\ided tbe arms wbicb I bad 
cbarged^ as before, between us; I gave Friday one pistol to stick 
in bis girdle, and tbree guns upon bis slionldcr ; and I took one 
pitätol, and tbe otber tbree guns rnyself; and in tMs posture we 
marched out, I took a small bottle of rum in my potket, and 
gave Friday a large bag witk more powder and buUets ; and, as 
to Orders» I diargcd bim to keep close bcbmd me^andnotto stir, 
or sboot, or do anyünng, tili I bid bim ; and» in tbe mean time, 
not to Bpeak a word. In tbis posture, I fetcbed a compass to my 
riglit band of near a mile, as well to get over the creek as to g^et 
into tbe wood, so tbat I migbt come witbin »bot of them before 
I sbould bc discovered, wbicb 1 bad 8een, by my glass, it was 
easy to do. 

Wbile T was making tbis marcb, my former tbouglits retnrning, 
I begim to abate my resolution : I do not mean tbat I cntertained 
any fear of their number; für, as tbey were naked, unarmed 
WTCtches, it is ccrtain I waa supcrior to them; nay, tbougb I had 
been alone. But it occurred to my tbougb tSj wbat call, wbat 
occasion, much less wbat nccessity I was in, to go and dip my 
hands in blood, to attack people wbo bad neitber done nor in- 
tended rae any wrong? Wlio, as to me^ were innocentj and whoae 
barbarous customs were their own disastcr; being, in them, a 
token indeed of God*8 baving left them, with tbe otber nations 
ofthat part of the world, to such stupiditj', and to such inhuman 
coursea; but did not call me to take upon me to be a judge of 
ibeir iM!tions, mutb less an executioner of bis justice; thatj wben- 
üvcr be thuught fit, be would take tbe cause into bis own bands, 
and, by national vengeauce, punibb them, as a people, for national 



180 AI>V£NTUR£S OF 



i; bot that, in the mean time, it was none of my bosiness; 
tliat, it was true, Friday might justify it, because he was a de- 
dared enemy, and in a State of war with those very particular 
people, and it was lawM for bim to attack tbem; but I could 
.not say the same with respect to myself. These things were so 
warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the way as I went, that I 
resolved I would only go and place myself near them, that I might 
observe their bafbarous feast, and that I would act then as God 
should direct: but that, unless something ofPered that was more 
a call to me than yet I knew of, I would not meddle with them. 

With this resolution I entered the wood ; and, with all possible 
wariness and silence, Friday following dose at my neels, I 
marched tili I came to the skirt of the wood, on the side which 
was next to them, only that one comer of the wood lay between 
me and them. Here I called softly to Friday, and showing him 
a great tree, which was just at the comer of the wood, I bade 
him go to the tree, and bring me word if he could see there plainly 
what they were doing. He did so; and came immediately back 
to me, and told me they might be plainly yiewed there; that they 
were all about their fire, eatii^ the flesh of one of their prisoners, 
and that another lay bbund upon the sand, a little from them, 
which, he said,.they would kill next, and which fired all the very 
soul within me. He told me it was not one of their uation, but 
one of the bearded men he had told me of^ that came to their 
country in the boat. I was fiUed with horror at the very naming 
the wlute bearded man; and, going to the tree, I saw plainly, by 
my glass, a white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, witn 
bis hands and bis feet tied with flags, or things like rushes, and 
that he was an European, and had clothes on. 

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about 
fifty yards nearer to them than the place where I was, which, by 
going a little way about, I saw I might come at undiscovered, 
and that then I should be within half a shot of them; so I with- 
held my passion, though I was indeed enraged to the highest 
degree; and going back about twenty paces, I got behind some 
bushes, which held all the way tili I came to the other tree; and 
then came to a little rising ground, which gave me a füll view 
of them^ at the distance of about eighty yards. 




ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



ISl 



4/ 



^. 



SECTION XXV- 

ROBINSON RELEASES A SPAKIAHD.— FRIDAY DISCOVERS HIS FATHER. 
— ACCOM.\rODATlON PROVIDED FOR THESE NEW GÜESTS— WHO 
ABE AFTER WARDS 8ENT TO LI BERATE THE OTffER BPANIARDS.— 
AllRIVAL 1>F AN ENGLISK VESSEL. 

1 HAD now Bot a nioment to lose, for nineteen of tlie dreadful 
wretches sat upoa the ^oxind, all cloae-liaddJed together^ and 
hiid just Beut the otlier twü to butcher tBe poor ChristiaDj and 
bring: liini» pcrbapsj luitb hy limb, to their fire; and ihcy were 
atooping down tu untie the banda at bis feet. I turaed to Friday 
— Now, Friday, said I, do as I bid iliee. Friday said be wauld. 
Tben, Friday, says I, do exactlyas youseemedo; fall in nothing. 
So I set down one of the muskets and tbe fowlin^-piece upon the 
^oiind, and Friday did the like by bis; and witb the otber musket 
J took my aim at the savages, bidding liim to do tbe like : then 
asking him if he was ready, he said, Yes. Theu fire at them, 
said I ; and tbe same moment I fired also, 

Friday took bis aim so much better tlian Ij tbat on the sido 
thathe »bot, he kilJed two uf them, and wounded tbrce more; and 
on my sidcj 1 killed one, and wonnded two. They were, you 
may be sure, in a drcadM consternation ; and all of tbem who 
*Tcre not hurt jumped upon their feet, but did not immediately 
know whicb way to nm, or which way to look, for they knew 
not from whence their destruction canie. Friday kept bis eyes 
close upon mc that^ as 1 had bid him, hü might observe what I 
did; so, as soon as the lirst sbot was made, I threw down tbe 
piece, and took up the fowling-piece, and Friday did the like: be 
1 present; he did the same a^ain. Are you ready, 



182 ADYENTURES OF 

Friday? said I. Yes, says he. Let fly, then, says I, in the name 
of God! And with that, I fired a^ain among the amazed wretches» 
and so did Friday; and as our pieces were now loaden with what 
I called swan-shot, or small pistol-buUets, we found only two 
drop, but so many were wounded, that they ran about yelling 
and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody, and most of them 
miserably wounded, whereof three more feil quickly after, though 
not quite dead. . 

Now, Friday, says I, laying down the discharged pieces, and 
taking up the musket which was yet loaden, foUow me ; which 
he did, with a great deal of courage ; upon which I rushed out 
of the wood, and showed myself, and Friday close at my foot. 
As soon as I perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could, 
and bade Friday do so too; and running as fast as I could, which, 
by the way, was not very fast, being loaded with arms as I was, 
I made durectly towards the poor yictim, who was, as I said, 
lying upon the beach, or shore, between the place where they 
sat and the sea. The two butchers, who were just going to work 
with him, had left him at the surprise of our first fire, and fled 
in a terrible Mght to the sea-side, and had jumped into a canoe, 
and three more of the rest made the same way. I tumed to 
Friday, and bade him step forwards, and fire at them; he under- 
stood me immediately, and running about forty yards, to be 
nearer them, he shot at them, and I thought he had killed them 
all, for I saw them all fall of a heap into the boat, though I saw 
two of them up again quickly : however, he killed two of them, 
and wounded me third, so that he lay down in the bottom of the 
boat as if he had been dead. 

Whüe my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my knife, 
andcutthe flags that bound the poor victim; and loosing his 
hands and feet, I lifted him up, and asked him in the Portuguese 
tongue, what he was. He answered in Latin, Christianus ; but 
was so weak and faint that he could scarce stand or speak. I 
tooK my bottle out of my pocket, and gave it him, makmg signs 
that he should drink, which he did ; and I gave him a piece of 
bread, which he ate. Then I asked him what countryman he 
was : and he said, Espagniole ; and being a little recovered, let 
me know, by all the sigiis he could possibly make, how much he 
was in my debt for his deliverance. Signor, said I, with as 
much Spanish as I could make up, we will talk afterwards, but 
we must fight now : if you have any strength left, take this pistol 
and sword, and lay about you. He took them very thankfuUy; 
and no sooner had he the arms in his hands, but, as if they had 
put new vigour into him, he flew upon his murderers like a fury, 
and had cut two of them in pieces in an instant; for the truth is, 
as the whole was a surprise to them, so the poor creatures were 
so much frightened with the noise of our pieces, that they feil 
down for mere amazement and fear, and had no more power to 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



103 



Rttempt tlieir own escape, than tbeir flesli had to rcsist dut slioti 
and that was the caae of tbose five tliat Friday shot iit in the 
boat; for aa tbree of tliem feil witb the hurt tbey receivod, so 
the other t^vo (eil witb the iri^bt. 

I kept my picce in my hantl still witbout firing;, being willing 
to keep my cnarge ready, because I bad given Ihe Spaniard my 
pistol and sword : so I called to Friday, and bade him run iip to 
the tree frora wbence we first ßredj and fetcb tbe armj^ wbich lay 
tbere tbat bad bcen discbarged, wbicb be did with great swift- 
neas ; aud tbcn givin|2j bim my musket, I sat down my seif to load 
all tbe rest again, and bade tbem come to rae wben tbey wanted. 
Wböc I was loadin^ tbese pieces» tbere bappencd a fierce en- 
gagferaent between tbe Spaniard and one of tbe savages, wbo 
niade at him witb onc öf tbeir great wooden Hworda, tbe same- 
like weapon tbat was to bave killed bim befbre, if I bad not 
prcvented it. Tbe Spaniard, wbo was as bold and brave as conld 
be iraa^nedj tbon^li weak, bad foogbt tbis ludian a g^ood wbile^ 
and bad eiit bim two ^eut wounds on bis head ; bat tbe saA^age 
being a stout, lusty fellow, closing in witb bim, bad tbrown bim 
down, being faint^ and was wrin^ng my sword out of-bis band ; 
wben tbe Spaniard, thougb midermost, wisely qnitting the sword, 
drew the pistol frora bis girdle, sbot tbe savage tbrougb the 
body, and kdled him npon tbe apot, before I, wbo was running 
to belp bim, could come near him. 

Friday being now lellt to bis liberty, pnrsned tbe flying 
wretcbes, with no weapon in bis band bnt bis hatchel ; and witb 
tbat he dispatcbed tbose tbree, wbo, as I said befbre, wero 
wounded at first, and fallenj and all tbe rest be could conie up 
witb : and the Spaniard coraing to rae for a gnn, I grave him one 
of tbe fo wiing-piecea, with wbich he pursued twoof the savages« 
and wounded them both ; bnt, as he waa not able to run, tbey 
botb got from bim into tbe wood, wbere Friday pursued tbem, 
aud killed one of them^ but the otbcr wag too nimble Ibr him ; 
and though be was wounded, yet bad phmged himself into the 
»ea, and swara, \ntb all bis migbt, off to tbose two who were 
lefl in tbe canoCj wbich tbree in the canoe, with one wonnded, 
that we ktxew not whether be died or no, were all tbat escaped 
our bands of one-and-twenty. The accoant of the whole is as 
follows : tbree killed at our firat sbot from tbe tree ; two killed 
at the next sbot; two killed by Friday in tbe boat; two killed 
by Fridav of tbose at first wounded ; one killed by Friday in tbe 
wood ; tbree killed by tbe Spaniard ; four killed, being found 
dropped bere and thcre of their wound.s, or killed by Friday in 
hia cbase of tbem ; four escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, 
if not dead. — ^Tweaty-one in all. 

Those tbat were in the canoe worked hard to get out of giin- 
sbot, and though Friday made two or tbree shots at tbem, 1 did 
not find that he bit any of them. Friday woidd fain bave bad 



184 ABVENTURES OF 

me take one of their canoes, and pursue them ; aDd indeed, I was 
very anxious about their escape, Jest, carrying the news home 
to tneirpeople, they slioald come back perhaps witli two or three 
bundred of tbe canoes, and devour us by mere miütitude ; so I 
consented to pursue tbem by sea, and running to one of their 
canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday follow me ; but when I was 
in the canoe, I was surprised to find another poor creature lie 
there, bound band and foot, as the Spaniard was, for the slaughter, 
and almost dead with fear, not knowing what was the matter ; 
, for he had not been able to look up over the side of the boat, he 
was tied so hard neck and heels, and had been tied so long, Üiat 
he had really but litüe life in him. 

I immediately cut the twisted fli^ or rushes, which they had 
bound him with, and would have helpedhim up ; but he could 
not stand or speak, bat groaned most piteously, believing, it 
seems, still, that he was only unbound in order to be kiUed. 
When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him, and teil 
bim of bis deliverance ; and, pulling out my bottle, made him 

S've the poor wretch a dram ; which, lyith the news of bis being 
(Hvered, revived him, and he sat up in the boat. But when 
Friday came to hear him speak, and loök in bis face, it would 
have moved any one into tears to haye seen how Friday kissed 
him, embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped 
about, danced, sung ; then cried again, wrung bis hands, beat 
bis own face and head ; and then sung and jumped about again, 
like a distracted creature. It was a good while before I could 
make him speak to me, or teil me what was the matter ; but when 
he came a httle to himself, he told me that it was bis father. 

It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see what 
ecstasy and filial aflPection had worked in this poor savage at the 
sight of bis father, and oi bis being delivered from death ; nor, 
indeed, can I describe half the extravagancies of bis affection aftei 
this ; for he went into the boat, and out of the boat, a great many 
times : when he went in to him, he would sit down by him, open 
his breast, and hold his.father's head dose to bis bosom for many 
minutes together, to nourish it ; then he took his arms and ankles, 
which were numbed and stiff with the binding, and chafed and 
rubbed them with his hands ; and I, perceiving what the case 
was, gave him some rum out of my bottle to ruh them with, which 
did them a great deal of good. 

This aflPair put an end to our pursuit of the canue with the 
other savages, who were got now almost out of sight ; and it was 
happy for us that we did not, for it blew so hard within two hours 
after, and before they could be got a quarter of their way, and 
continued blowing so hard all night, and that from the north- 
west, which was against them, that I could not suppose their 
boat could live, or that they ever reached their own coast. 

But, to retum to Friday; he was so busy about his father, 



IIOBINSON CEUSOE, 



185 



"Öiat I could not find in my Leart to take him off for sorae time; 
but after I tbought he could Icftve bim a littlcj I ealled biin to 
me, and he carae jimiping and laiighlDg^ and pleased to the 
higliest extreme ; then I asked bim if he liad giveri bis father 
any bread. H« shook bis hcÄd^ and said, Nonc j iigly dog eat 
all iip seif. I then gave him a cake of bread, out of a little 
pouch I carried on purpose : I also gave bimadramfor himseH 
bnt he would not taste it, bat carried it to bis falber. I bad in 
my pocket two ov tbrec bunchea of raij-ius, so 1 gave him a 
hftiififul of tbem for Ms father. He bad no sooner given bis 
falber these raisins^ hut I saw him come out of tbe boat, and 
run away, as if be bad been bew itcbed, he ran at such a rate ; 
for he was tbe swiftest fellow on his fcct that cyct I saw : I say, 
he ran at such a rate, tbat ke was out of sigbt, as it were, in an 
instant ; and tliougb I ealled, and ballooed out too, afier bim, it 
was all onCi away he went ; and in n quarter of an hour I saw 
him come back again, tbough not so fast as bewent; and as he 
came nearer, I found bis pace slacker, because he bad sometbing 
in his band- Wben he eame up to me, I found be bad been 
guite bome for an eartben jug, or pot, to bring bis father some 
ireah water, and tbat be bad two more eakesor loaves of bread; 
tbe bread he gave me^ but the water he carried to his father; 
however, as I was very tbirsty too, I took a little sup of it, 
Tbe water revived bis father more tban all tbe rum or spirita 
t bad given him, for he was just ikintiug witb thirst. 

When bis fatber bad dnink, I callcd to him to know if there 
was any water Icft : he said, Yes ; and I bade um give it to the 
poor Spaniard, who was in as much want of it as bis fatker : 
and I sent one of ike cakes tbat Friday brougbt to tbe Spaniard 
too, wbo was indeed very weak, and wtus reposing hhnself upon 
a green place under the sbade of n tree ; and wbose limbs were 
also very stiff, and very much swelled with the rüde handage he 
had been tied witb, \Vben I saw tbat, upoa Friday 's Coming to 
him with the water, he sat np and drank, and took tbe bread, 
and began to eat, I went to bira and gave him a handful of 
raisins : he looked up in my face with all tbe tokeus of gralitude 
and tbankfnlness tbat could app^jar in any countcnancc ; but 
was so weak, notwithstanding be had so exerted bimself in tbe 
figbt, tbat be could not stand up upon his feet ; he tried to do it 
two or three times, but was rcally not able, bis ankles were so 
sweUed aud so painful to him ; ao I bade bim sit still, and caused 
Friday to rub hia ankles, and batbe tbem witb rum, as he had 
done bis fatlier's. 

1 obBcrved tbe poor affectionate creature, every two minutes, 
or pcrhaps lesa, all tbe white he w as liere, tum bis head about 
to see if bis fatber was in tbe samc place and posture as be left 
him sitting : and at last be found be was not to be seen ; at 
whicb he started up, and, witbout speaking a word, flew witli 



186 ADVENTÜRES OP 

that swiftness to him, that one could scarce perceive liis feet to 
touch the ground as he went : but when he came, he only found 
he had lain himself down to ease his limbs, so Friday came 
back to me presently ; and then I spoke to the Spaniara to let 
Friday help'hunup, if be could; and lead him to.theboat, and 
then he should .carry him.- to our dwelling, where I .would ' take 
care of him : but Friday, t a rlusty strpng fello'w, . t(Jo)t- the 
Späniard quite up upon bis hack,' and . carried :him away to the 
boat, and sefc him. down • softly. upon the side or gunnel of the 
canoe, with his feet in. the inside of it; and thcA, lifting him 
quite in, he. set himself close to hisfather; and prese^t;ly; Step- 
ping out again, launched the boat oif, arid paddled it.along the 
shore faster than^I could walk, though the wind ; blew pretty 
hard too : so he. brought them both safe into. our creek, and 
leaving them! in .the boat, rän away to fetch the other , canoe. 
Ashe passed me, I spoke to him,:and asked him whitl^er he 
went. He told me, Go fetch more' boat : so away .he;Wenj; like 
the wind, for sure never man or horse ran like him ; and he had 
the other t;änoe in the creek almost/as soon as t got to it by 
land ; so he wafted me over, and then went to help our new 
guests out of the boat, which he did ; but they. werß neither of 
ihem äble.to walk, so that poor Friday knew not what to <}o. 

To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and calling to 
Friday to bid them sit down onthe bank while he came to me, 
I soon made a kind of a hand-barrow to lay them on, and Fri- 
day and I carried them both up together upon it, between us. 
But when we got. them to the outside of our wall, or fortifica- 
tion, we were at a worse loss than before, for it was impossible 
to get them over, and I was resolved not to break it down : so 
I set to work again;. and Friday and I, in about two hours' 
time, made a very handsome tent, covered with old sails, and 
above that with boughs of trees, being in the space without our 
outward fence, and between that and the grove of voung wood 
which I had planted ; and here we made them two beds of such 
things as I had, viz. of good rice straw, with blankets laid upon 

f it, to lie on, and another to cover them, on each bed. 

My island was now peopled, and I thought myself rieh in 
subjects : and it was a merry reflection, which I frequently made, 
how like a king I looked. First of all, the whole country was 

i my own mere property, so that I had an undoubted right.of do- 
mmion. Secondly, my people were perfectly subjected ; I was 

, absolutely lord and lawgiver ; they all owed their lives to me, 

i and were ready to lay down their lives, if there had been 

(occasion for it, for me. It was remarkable, too, I had but three 
subjects, and they were of three diflferent religions : my man 
Friday was a Protestant, his father was a Pagan and a cannibal, 
and the Späniard was a Papist: however, I allowed liberty of 
conscience throughout my dominions. — But this is by the way. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 187 

As soon as I had secured my two weak rescaed prisoners, 
and given them shelter, and a place to rest them upon, I began 
to think of making some provision for them: and tne first tlune 
I did, I ordered Friday to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and 
a goat, out of my particular flock, to be killed; wken I cut off 
the Linder quarter, and ckopping it into small pieces, I set Friday 
to work to boiling and stewing, and made them a yery good dish, 
I assure you, of flesh and broth, having put some barley and 
rice also into the broth : and as I cooked it without doors, for I 
made no Are within my inner wall, so I carried it all into the new 
tent, and having set a table there for them, I sat down, and ate 
my dinner also with them, and, as weil as I could, cheered them, 
and encouraged them. Friday was my interpreter, especially to 
nis father, and, indeed, to the Spaniard too ; for the Spaniard 
spoke the languaee of the savages pretty well. 

After we had dmed, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to take 
one of the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets and other fire- 
arms, which, for want of time, we had left upon the place of battle : 
and, the next day, I ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies 
of the savages, which lay open to the sun, and would presently 
be offensive. I also ordered him to bury the horrid remains 
of their barbarous feast, which I knew were pretty much, 
and which I could not think of doing myself ; nay, I could not 
bear to see them, if I went that way ; all which he punctually 
performed, and effaced the very appearance of the savages being 
there ; so that when I went again, I could scarce know where it 
was, otherwise than by the corner of the wood pointing to the 
place. 

I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two 
new subjects : and, first, I set Friday to inquire of his father what 
he thought of the escape of the savages in that canoe, and whether 
we might expect a retum of them, with a power too great for us 
to resist. His first opinion was, that the savages in the boat 
could never live out the storm which blew that night they went off, 
but must of necessity be drowned, or driven south to those other 
shores, where they were as sure to be devoured as they were to 
be drowned, if they were cast avvay : but, as to what they would 
do, if they came safe on shore, he said he knew not ; but it was 
his opinion, that they were so dreadfully frightened with the 
manner of their being attacked, the noise, and the fire, that he 
believed they would teil the people they were all killed by thunder 
and lightning, not by the band of man ; and that the two which 
appeared, viz. Friday and I, were two heavenly spirits, or fiiries, 
come down to destroy them, and not men with weapons. This, 
he said, he knew : because he heard them all cry out so, in their 
language one to anothe^ ; for it was impossible for them to con- 
ceive that a man could dart fire, and speak thunder, and kill at 
a distance, without lifting up the band, as was done now : and 

o 



188 ADVENTURES OP 

this old savage was in the right; for, as I understood since, 
by other hands, the savages never attempted to go over to the 
Island afkerwards, they were so terrified with the accounts given 
by those four men (for, it seems, they did escape the sea), that 
they believed whoever went to that enchanted Island would be 
destroyed by fire from the gods. This, however, I knew not ; and 
therefore was under continual apprehensions for a good while, 
and kept always upon my guard, with all my army : for, as there 
were now four of us, I would have ventured upon a hundred of 
them, fairly in the open field, at any time. 

In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing, the fear 
of their Coming wore off; and I began to take my former thoughts 
of a voyage to the main into consideration; being likewise assured, 
by Friday's father, that I might depend upon good usage from 
their nation, on bis account, if I would go. But my thoughts were 
a little suspended when I had a serious cdscourse with the Spaniard, 
and when I understood that there were sixteen more of bis 
countrymen and Portuguese, who, having been cast away, and 
made their escape to that side, lived there at peace, indeed, with the 
savages, but were very sore put to it for necessaries, and indeed 
for Ujfe. I asked him all the particulars of their voyage, and 
found they were a Spanish ship, bound from the Rio de la Plata, 
to the Havanna, being directed to leave their loading there, which 
was chiefly hides and silver, and to bring back what European 
goods they could meet with there; that they had five Portuguese 
seamen on board, whom they took out of another wreck ; that 
five of their own men were drowned, when first the ship was lost, 
and that these escaped through infinite dangers and hazards, and 
arrived, almost starved, on the cannibal coast, where they ex- 
pected to have been devoured every moment. He told me they 
had some arms with them, but they were perfectly useless, for 
that they had neither powder nor ball, the washing of the sea 
having spoiled all their powder, but a little, which they used at 
their first landing, to provide themselves some food. * 

I asked him what he thought would become of them there, and 
if they had formed no design of making any escape. He said 
they had many consultations about it ; but that having neither 
vessel, nor tools to build one, nor provisions of any kind, their 
Councils always ended in tears and despair. I asked him how 
fie thought they would receive a proposal from me, which might 
tend towards an escape ; and whether, if they were all here, it 
might not be done. I told him, with freedom, I feared mostly 
their treachery and ill usage of me, if I put my life in their hands , 
for that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature of man, 
nor did men alway Square their dealings by the obligations they 
had received, so much as they did by the advantages they ex- 
pected. I told him it would be very hard that 1 should be the 
Instrument of their deliverance, and that they should afterwards 



ROBmsON CRUSOE. 



189 



make me tlieir prisoner in New Spain, where an Engliäliman was 
certain to be müde a sücrifice, what necesaity or wbat accident 
ßoevcr brou^bt liim thitberj and that I had ratber be delivered 
up to tlie savages, and be dcvoured alive, tban fall into tbe 
mercileas claws of tlie priests, and be carried into tbe Inqui- 
sition. I added, tliat otherwise I was persuaded, if tliey wero 
all bere^ \ve miglit, \ntb so majiy Lands, bnild a bark large 
enon^li to carry nti all away, eitber to thc Brazils, so Utk ward, 
or to tbe islands, or Spanish coast, nortbward; but tbat if, 
in reqmtal, tbey sbould, wben I bad put weapons into their 
hands, carry me by force among tbeir own people, I might 
be iü used ibr niy kindness to tbem, and niake ray c:aso worse 
tban it was betöre. 

He answered witk a great dea! of candour and inpi^enuoiisness, 
tbat tbeir conditio ti was so miserable, and tbey were so sensible 
of it, tbat be bebeved tbey would abbor tbe thongbt of using any 
man unk in dl y tbat sbould ctnitdbute to tbeir deliverance ; and 
tbat, if 1 pleased, be would go to them with tbe old man, and 
discourse witb tbem about it, and retnrn again, and bring me 
tbeir ans wer ; tbat be would mtike conditions witb tbem upon 
tbeir solemn oatb, tbat tbey sbould be absolutely under my 
leading, as tbeir Commander and eaptain ; and tbat they sbould 
swear, upon tbe boly sacraments and gospelj to be truc to rae, 
and ^o to sueb Cbristian couotry as tbat I sbould agree to, and 
no otbcr, and to be directed wboÜy and absolutely by my orders» 
tili tbey were ianded safely in such couutry aa I intenücd ; and 
that he would bring a contract from tbem, inider tbeir banda, fop 
that purpojsc. Tben he told me he would lirst swear to me bim- 
seif, tbat be would never atir from me as long aa be lived, tili I 
gave bim ordera ; and that be wonld take my side to tbe last 
drop of bis blood, if tbere should happen the least breach of faith 
among bis countrymcn. He told me they were all of tbem very 
civil, honest men, and they were nnder tbe greatest distress 
iinnginable, having neitber weapons, nor clotbesj nor any tbod, 
but at tbe mercy and discretion of the savagea ; out of all bopea 
of ever retnrning to their own country; and that be was sure, 
if I would under take their rclicf, tbey would live and die by me. 

Upon these assurapces, I resolved to venture to relieve them, 
if possible, and to send tbe old savage and tbis Spaniard over to 
them to treat. }5ut wben wc bad got all thinga in reatlineas to 
go, the Spaniard himself started an objection, wbich had so rauch 
prudence in it on one band, and so mucb sincerity, on tbe other 
band, that I could not but be very well aatisfied in it ; and, by 
bis advice, put off the deliverance of bis comrades for at least 
half a year. Thc case was thus : He bad becn witb us now about 
B raonth, during which time I bad let him see? in wbat manner I 
had pruvided, with tbe assiatance of Pro\'idence, for my support; 
and ne saw evidently what stock of com and rice 1 bad laid up; 
02 



190 . ADVENTURES OF 

which, though it was more than sufficient for inyself, yet it was 
not sufficient, without good husbandry, for my family, now it was 
increased to four ; but much less would it be sufficient if bis 
countrymen, wbo were, as be said, sixteen, still alive, sbould 
come over ; and least of all would it be sufficient to victual our 
vessel, if we sbould build one, for a voyage to any of tbe 
Cbristian colonies of America; so be told me be tbougbt it 
would be more advisable to let bim and tbe otber two dig and 
cultivate some more land, as mucb as I could spare seed to sow, 
and tbat we sbould wait anotber barvest, tbat we migbt bave a 
supply of com for bis countrymen, wben tbey sbould come ; for 
want migbt be a temptation to tbem to disagree, or not to tbink 
tbemselves delivered, otberwise tban out of one difficulty into 
anotber. You know, says be, tbe cbildren of Israel, tbougb tbey 
rejoiced at first for tbeir being delivered out of Egypt, yet re- 
bdled even against God bunself, tbat delivered tbem, wben tbey 
came to want bread in tbe Wildemess. 

His caution was so seasonable, and bis advice so good, tbat J 
could not but be very well pleased witb bis proposal, as well as 
I was satisfied witb bis fidelity : so we feil to digging all four of 
US, as well as tbe wooden tools we were fiimisbed witb permitted ; 
and in about a montb's time, by tbe end of wbicb it was seed- 
time, we bad got as mucb land cured and trimmed up as we 
sowed two and twenty busbels of barley on, and sixteen jars of 
rice ; wbicb was, in sbort, all tbe seed we bad to spare : nor, 
indeed, did we leave ourselves barley sufficient for our own food, 
for tbe six montbs tbat we bad to expect our crop ; tbat is to 
say, reckoning from tbe time we set our seed aside for sowing ; 
for it is not to be supposed it is six montbs in tbe ground in 
tbat country. 

Having now society enougb, and our number being sufficient 
to put US out of fear of tbe savages, if tbey bad come, unless 
tbeir number bad been very great, we went freely all over tbe 
Island, wbenever we found occasion : and as bere we bad our 
escape or deliverance upon our tbougbts, it was impossible, at 
least for me, to bave tbe means of it out of mine. For tbis pur- 
pose, I marked out several trees wbicb I tbougbt fit for our 
work, and I set Friday and bis fatber to cutting tbem down ; 
and Üien I caused tbe Spaniard, to wbom I imparted my tbougbt 
on tbat affiiir, to oversee and direct tbeir work. I sbowed tbem 
witb wbat indefatigable pains I bad bewed a large tree into single 
planks, and I caused tbem to do tbe like, tili tbey bad made 
about a dozen large planks of good oak, near two feet broad, 
tbirty-five feet long, and from two incbes to four incbes tbick : 
wbat prodigious labour it took up, any one may imagine. 

At tbe same time, I contrived to increase my little flock of 
tarne goats as mucb as I could ; and, for tbis purpose, I made 
Fiiday and tbe Spaniard go out one day, and myself witb 



ROBIiraON CRUSOE, 



191 



Friday the next d&y (for we took our turna), and hj thia means 
we got ßbout twenty young kija to breed up witli the rest ; for 
wheiiever we shot the änm^ we saved the kidsj and added them 
to our flock. But, above all, the season for curiog the grapea 
comiag on, J cunseKl such a prodig^ous quantity to be hung iip 
in the suo, that, 1 believe, had we been at Alicant, where the 
raisins of the sun are cored, we coidd have filled aixty or eighty 
bairels ; and these, wiüi nur hread, was a great part of our food, 
and was very good living, too, I assure you, for it is exceedingly 
noiiTishing. 

It was now harvestj and our crop in good Order : it was not 
the most pleotiful increase 1 had seen in the isknd, bot, how- 
ever, it was enoogh to answer oiir end ; for from twetity-two 
busbels of barley we brougbt in and threshcd out above two 
bundred and twenty busheis, and the like in proportion of the 
rice ; wbitrb was störe euough for our fuod to the next harrest, 
tbough all the sixteen Spaniards had been on shore with me j or 
if we had been ready for avoyage, it would very plentifully have 
victuaOed our ship to have carried üb to any part of the world, 
that is to sny, any part of America. Wben we had thiis housed 
and secured our raagaKine of com» we feil to work to make more 
w ick er wäre, viz» great baskets, in whicb wo kept it ; and the 
Spaniard was very handy and dexterous at this part, and oflen 
blamed me that I did not make somc thiugs for defencc of this 
kind of work ; bot I saw uo need of it. 

And now, baving a füll supply of food for all the guests I ex- 
pected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the main, to sce 
what he could do vdtb tbose he had lelt behind him therct 
1 gave him a strict charge not to bring any man with bim who 
w^ould not first swear» in the prcsencc of himself and the old 
savage, that )ie wouhl no way injure, figbt with, or attack the 
person he sbould find in the Island, who was so kind as to send 
ior them in order to their deliverance j bot that they would i 
stand by Lim, and dcfend him agfiiust all such attempts, andj 
wherever they went, would be cntirelv imder and subjected to 
hia command*; and that this sboulJ be put in writing, and 
signed witb their band s, How they were to have done tbiS| . 
when I knew they bad neither pen uor ink, was a «luestionj 
which we never asked. Under thcse Instructions, the Spaniar 
and the old eavage, the father of Friday^ went away in one 
the canoea which they migbt be said to eome in, or rathcp we 
brought in, when they came as prisoners to be devonred by the 
iavages, I gave each of thcm a musket, witb a tirclock on it, 
and about eight ch arges of powder and hall, chargiug them to 
be very good busbands of both, and not to use either of them 
but tipou urgent occasions, 

Tbis was a cheerful work, being the first measures used by 
me, in view of my deliverance, for now twcntj^-seven yeara and 



192 ADVENTUEES OF 

ffome days. I gave them provisions of bread, and of dried 
giapes, suffideut for themselves for many days, and sufficient for 
all Üie Spaniards for about eight days' time ; and wishing them 
a good voyage, I saw them go ; agreeing with them about a sig- 
luu they should hang out at their retum, by which I should 
know them again, when they came back, at a distance, before 
they came on shore. They went away with a fair gale, on the 
day that the moon was at Mi, by my account in the month of 
October ; but as for an exact reckonmg of days, after I had once 
lost it, I could never recover it again ; nor had I kept even the 
number of years so pimctually as to be sure I was right ; though, 
as it proved, when I afterwards examined my account, I found 
I had kept a true reckoning of years. 

It was no less than eight days I had waited for them, when a 
Strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like has 
not perhaps been heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my 
hutch one moming, when my man Friday came running in to 
me, and called aloud, Master, master, they are come, they are 
come ! I jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went out as 
soon as I could get my clothes on, through my little grove, 
which, by the way, was by this time grown to be a very thick 
wood ; I say, regardless of danger, I went without my arms, 
which it was not my custom to do ; but I was surprised, when 
tuming my eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat about a 
league and a half distance, standing in for the shore, with a 
shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind blowing 
pretty fair to bring them in : also 1 observed presently, that they 
did not come from that side which the shore lay on, but from 
the southernmost end of the Island. Upon this, I caUed triday 
in, and bade him lie close, for these were not the people we looked 
for, and that we might not know yet whether they were friends 
or enemies. In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective 
glass, to See what I could make of them ; and having taken the . 
ladder out, I climbed up to the top of the hill, as I used to do 
when I was apprehensive of anything, and to take my view the 
plainer without being discovered. I had scarce set my foot upon 
the hill, when my eye plainly discovered a ship lying at an ancnor, 
at about two leagues and a half distance from me, S.S.E., but 
not above a league and a half from the shore. By my Obser- 
vation, it appeared plainly to be an English ship, and the boat 
appeared to be an English long-boat. 

I cannot express the confusion 1 was in ; though the joy of 
seeing a ship, and one that I had reason to believe was manned 
by my own countrymen, and, consequently, friends, was such as 
I cannot describe ; but yet I had some secret doubts hang about 
me — I cannot teil from whence they came, bidding me keep upon 
my guard. In the first place, it occurred to me to consider what 
business an English ship could have in that part of the world, 



H0BI14SON CRUSOE. 



193 



» 



since it Wfts not tlie way to or from any part of the world wliere 
the Englishhad any trafficj and l knew tbere b«d been tio storma 
to drive them in tliere, as in distress; and that if tbej vere 
really En»;liBby it was most probable tbat they were bere upon 
HO good design ; and that I bad better contiiiue ns I was, than 
fall into the hauds of thieves and murderers* 

Let HO man despiae the secret bints and notices of danger, 1 
whieb sometimes are givcn liim wben lie nmy tliink there is no 1 
posöihility of its beinc^ reaL Tbat such bints and notices are | 
given HB, I believe few tbat bave made any obscrvations of tliingrs 1 
can deny; tbat they are certnin discoveries of an invisible world, I 
and a converse of Bpirits, we cannot doiibt; and üHbe tcndency 1 
of tbem seems to be to ivarn us of danger, wby sboiiid we not f 
Buppose they are from aome friendly agent (whether supreme, ort 
inferior and subordiuate, is not the questiou), and that tliey are/ 
given for our goüd? * ' 

The present question abiindantlyconfirms me in tbe justice of 
this reasoning; for bad I not been made cauliouü by thiis seeret 
admonitioni come it from whenee it will, I bad been undone in- 
evitablvt and in a ikr worsc condition than before, as you will see 
preseutly. I bad not kept myself long in thiB posture, but I 
BAW tbe boat draw near tbe sbore, as if they looked for a creek 
to thrust in at, for the convenience of landing •, however, as they 
did not corae quite far enougb, they did not see the little inlet 
"w bere I formerly knded my rafts, but rnn their boat on shore 
lipon tbe beach, at abont half a mile from me, which was 
very happy for me ; for otberwise they would bave landed just 
at my door^ as l may say» and would soon have beaten me out 
of my castlcj and pei-haps bave pluudered me of all I bad. Wben 
they were on shore, I was fully satisfied they were Englisbmen, 
at least most of the in ; one or two I tbougbt were Dutcb, but it 
did not prove so ; tbere were in all eleven men, whereof three 
of tbem I found ^ere unarmed, and, as J tliought, bound; and 
wben the first foui- or five of tbem were jumped on shore, they 
took tbose three out of tbe boat, as priaoners ; one of the three 
l could perceive using tbe most passionatc gestures of entreaty^ 
üffliction, and despair, even to a kind of extravagance ; the other 
two, I could perceive, lifted up their bands aometimes, and ap- 
pearcd concemed, indeed, but not to such a degree as the first. 
I was perfectly confounded at tbe si^bt, and knew not what the 
meaniug of it sbould be. Friday called out to me in Euglish, as 
well as he could, O master! you see Englinb maus eat prisoner 
as well as savage maus.— Wby, Friday, says 1, do you thmk they 
are going to eat them tben? — Yes, says Friday, they viill eat 
tbem* — No, no, says l, Friday; I am afraid they will murder 
them, indeed, but you mny be surc tbcy will not eat them. 

.All thi« while 1 fmd no ihonght of what the matter really was, 
but stood trembling with tbe horror of tbe sight, expecting evcrv 
tuomcnt wben tbe three priaoners should be killed ; naj, oHce I 



194 ADVENTURES OP 

saw one of the villains lift up bis arm with a great cutlass, as 
the seamen call it, or sword, to strike one of the poor men ; and 
I expected to see Mm fall every moment ; at which all the blood 
in my body seemed to run chiU in my veins. I wished beartily 
now for my Spaniard, and the savage that was gone with bim, 
or tbat I bad any way to bave come undiscovered witbin sbot 
of tbem, tbat I migbt bave rescued tbe tbree men, for I saw no 
fire-arms tbey bad among tbem : but it feil out to my mind 
anotber way. After I bad observed tbe outrageous usage of tbe 
tbree men by tbe insolent seamen, I observed tbe fellows run 
scattering about tbe island, as if tbey wanted to see tbe country. 
I observä tbat tbe tbree otber men bad liberty to go also wbere 
tbey pleased; but tbey sat down all tbree upon tbe ground, 
very pensive, and looked like men in despair. Tbis put me iu 
mind of tbe first time wben I came on sbore, and began to look 
about me : bow I gave myself over for lost ; bow wildly I looked 
around me; wbat dreadful apprebensions 1 bad; and bow I 
lodged in tbe tree all nigbt, for fear of being devoured by wild 
beasts. As I knew notbing tbat nigbt of the supply I was to 
receive by tbe providential driving of tbe ship nearer tbe land 
by tbe storms and tide, by which I bave since been so long 
nourished and supported; so these tbree poor desolate men 
knew nothing bow certain of deliverance and suppLy tbey were, 
bow near it was to tbem, and bow eflföctually and really tbey 
were in a condition of safety, at tbe same time tbat tbey thought 
themselves lost, and their case desperate. So little do we see 
before us in tbe world, and so much reason bave we to depend 
cbeerfully upon tbe great Maker of tbe world, that he does not 
leave his creatures so absolutely destitute, but tbat, in the worst 
drcumstances, tbey bave always sometbing to be tbankful for, 
and sometimes are nearer tbeir deliverance than tbey imagine , 
nay, are even brought to tbeir deliverance by the means by 
which tbey seem to be brought to tbeir destruction 




BOBrNSON CRUSOE. 



195 



SECTION XXVI. 

ROBIXSON DISCOVERS HIMSEtF TO THE ENGLISR CAPTAIN* — ASSISTS 
HIM m REDÜCING HIS MUTINOUS CREW, — ^VHO SUBMIT TO HIM. 

1t Was jiiat at the top of high wiiter wlien tbeae people came on 
shore ; and partly VTiiÜe they rambled libout to see wbat kind 
af ft place tbey were in, tbey liad carelessly stayed tili the tide 
was speut, aiul thc waler was ebbed considerubly away, leaving 
tlieir boat aground. Tbey bad left two men in the boat^ wbo» aa 
I found afterwarda, liaiiiig dnmk a little too mueh brandy, feU 
asleep ; howevcr, one of tbem waltiii^ a little sooner than the 
otbcr, and findin^ the boat too fast ao^round for bim to stir it, 
hallooed out for the rest, who wtrc straggling: aboiit ; upon which 
tbey all eoon came to the boat : but it was past all their streng^h 
to launch her, the boat bcing very beavy, and the sbore on tbat 
aide beiiig a soft oozy sand, almost hke a aüicksand. In this 
cotidition, like tnie seamen^ w bo ar<5 perhaps tJic least of all man- 
kind g:iven to forethoiig^ht, thcy gave it over, and away they 
8 troll ed about the coantry a^ain ; and I beard one of tbem say 
nloud to another, calling them off from the boat, Wby, let lier 
alüiie, Jack» can't youl she'll fioat tieiLt tide: by wlücb I was 
fully confimncd in the main inquiry of ivhat conntrymcn ihey 
were. All thia while I kept my seif very dose, not once daring 
to Btir out of my Castle, any farther tban to my place of Obser- 
vation» near the top of the hill; and very g;lad I was to think 
bow well it was fortifietl. 1 kiiew it was no k'ss tban ten boura 
betöre the boat could float again» and by that time it would be 



196 ADVENTURES OF 

dark, and I might be at more *iberty to see their motions, and 
to hear their discourse, if they had any. In the mean time, I 
fitted myself up for a battle, as before, tnougb with more caution, 
knowing I had to do with another kind of enemy than I had 
at first. I ordered Friday also, whom I had made an excellent 
marksman with his gun, to load himself with arms. I took my- 
self two fowlingpieces, and I gave him three muskets. My figure, 
indeed, was very fierce ; I had my formidable goats' skin coat on, 
with the great cap I have mentioned, a naked sword by my side, 
two pistols in my belt, and a gun upon each Shoulder. 

It was my design, as I said above, not to have made any 
attempt tili it was dark: but about two o*clock, being the heat 
of the day, I found that, in short, they were all gone straggling 
into the woods, and as I thought, laid down to sleep. The three 
poor distressed men, too anxious for their condition to get any 
sleep, were, however, sat down under the shelter of a great tree, 
at about a quarter of a mile from me, and, as I thought, out of 
sieht of any of the rest. Upon this I resolved to discover my- 
self to them, and leam something of their condition ; immediately 
I marched in the figure as above, my man Friday at a good 
distance behind me, as formidable for his arms as I, but not 
making quite so staring a spectre-like figure as I did. I came 
as near wem undiscovered as I could, and then, before any of 
Aem saw me, I called aloud to them in Spanish, What are ye, 
gentlemen ? They started up at the noise ; but were ten times 
more confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth figure that 
I made. They made no answer at all, but I thought I perceived 
them just going to fly from me, when I spoke to them in English : 
Gentlemen, said I, do not be surprised at me ; perhaps you may 
have a firiend near, when you did not expect it. — He must be 
sent directly from Heaven then, said one of them very gravely 
to me, and pulling off his hat at the same time to me ; for our 
condition is past the help of man. — All help is from Heaven, sir, 
said I : But can you put a stranger in the way how to help you? 
for you seem to be in some great distress. I saw you when you 
landed; and when you seemed to make supplication to the 
brutes that came with you, I saw one of them lift up his sword 
to kill you. 

The poor man, with tears running down his face, and trem- 
bling, looking like one astonished, retumed, Am I talking to 
God or man? Is it a real man or an angel? — Be in no fear about 
diat, sir, said I ; if God had sent an angel to reÜeve you, he 
would have come better clothed, and armed after another manner 
than you see me: pray lay aside your fears; I am a man, an 
Englishman, and disposed to assist you : you see I have one 
servant only ; we have arms and ammimition ; teil us freely, can 
we serve you? What is your case?— Our case, said he, sir, is 
too long to teil you, while our murderers are so near us ; but, in 



KOBINSOK CRUSO&. 



197 



Short} sifi I was Commander of that ship, my men hnye mutinied 
against me; they hüvc beca bardly prevaüed on not to mtirder 
me ; and at last havc «et me ou fsliore in tbis desolate place, wilh 
tliese tvro men witli me, one mj rnatei the other a passenger, 
ifliere \\e expected to perish, believing the place to be UQin- 
habited, and know not yet wliat to tliiuk of it. — Where are tliese 
brutcs, your enemies l said I : Do you know whcre tkey are gone? 
— There tbey lie, sifi said be, pointing to a tbickct ortreeä; my 
heart trembles fou feür tbey kave scen us, and bcard you speak; 
if tbey kave, tkey will certainly mnrder ua all. — Have tbey any 
fire-arms? said I. Ue answered tkey bad only two pieces, one 
of wkicb tbey left in tbe boat. Well tben, said 1, leave tke rest 
to me ; 1 öee tbey are ii\\ asleep, it ia an easy tking to kill tkem 
all : but skall we rather take tbern prisoners ? He told me tkere 
were two desperate villaiug among thcm, tkat it was scarce safe 
to show any mercy to ; bnt if tkey were s ecured» be belie\ ed all 
the rest wonld retnrn to tkeir duty. I asked kim wbiek tbey 
were? He told me lie could not at tkat distauce disliu^uish 
tkem, but ke would obey ray Orders in anytbing I wotikl dürect. 
VieUy says I, let U3 retreat out of tbeir \iew or bearing, lest tkey 
awake, and we will resolve fiirtber. So tkey wiUingly went back 
witk me, tili tke woods covered ua from tkem» 

Look you, Bir, said I^ if I venture upon your dcliverance, are 
you willing to make two conditions witk me ? He anticipated 
jmy proposala, by teliing me, tliat botb ke and tlie sbip, if re- 
covered, skould be wlioUy directed and commanded by me in 
every tking ; and, if tke skip was not rccovered, be would live 
and die with me in wliat part of the world soever I woidd send 
kim ; and tke two otker men said tke samc. Well, says I» my 
conditions are but two i first^ Tkat wkile you atay in tluB island 
witk me, you will not pretend to any autkority herej and il' I 
put arms in your bands, you willj Ujjon all occasions, give tbem 
np to me, and do no prejudic^j to me or mine upon tbis Island j 
and, in tke mean tinie, be gfovemed by my Orders : secondly, 
Tkat if tbe sbip is, or may be recovered, you will carry me and 
my man to England passage free. 

He gave me idl tke assurances tkat the invention or faitb of 
man coidd devise, tkat be would comply witb thesc most reason- 
able demands; and, besidea, would owc Ms life to me, aiid 
acknowledge it upou all occabions, as long as ke lived. Well 
tken, said I, bcre are tkrce munkets for you, witb powder and 
ball : teil me next wbat you tbink is proper to be done. He 
skowed me all tho tcstimonies of kis gratitude tbat he was able, 
but cffered to be wkolly f^nided by me. I told biin I thought it 
was bard venturing any tbing ; but tlic best metbod 1 could tbink 
of was to fire upon tkem at once, as tkey lay, and if any was not 
kiUed at the first volley, and oß'ered to submit, we migkt save 
tbem, and so put it wkolly upon God^ providence to du'ect tke 



198 ADVENTURES OF 

sliot. He Said very modestly, that he was loath to kill them, if 
he could help it : but that those two were incorrigible villains, 
and had been the authors of all the mutiny in the ship, and if 
they escaped, we should be undone still ; for they would go on 
board and bring the whole ship's Company, and destroy us all. 
Well then, says I, necessity legitimates my advice, for it is the 
only way to save our lives. However, seeing him still cautious 
of shedaing blood, I told him they should go themselves and 
manage as they found convenient. 

In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them awake, 
and soon after we saw two of them on their feet. I asked him 
if either of them were the heads of the mutiny ? He said no. Well 
then, said I, you may let them escape ; and Providence seems to 
have awakened them on purpose to save themselves. Now, says 
I, if the rest escape you, it is your fault. Animated with this, 
he tOok the musket I had given him in bis band, and a pistol in 
his belt, and bis two comrades with him, with each a piece in his 
hand ; the two men who were with him going first, made some 
noise, at which one of the seamen who was awake turned about, 
and seeing them coming, cried out to the rest ; but it was too 
late then, for the moment he cried out they fired ; I mean the 
two men, the captain wisely reserving his own piece. They had 
so well aimed their shot at the men they knew, that one of them 
was killed on the spot, and the other very much wounded ; but 
not being dead, he started up on his feet, and called eagerly for 
help to the others ; but the captain stepping to him, told him it 
was too late to cry for help, he should call upon God to forgive 
his villany ; and with that word knocked him down with the stock 
of his musket, so that he never spoke more ; there were three 
more in the Company, and one of them was also slightly wounded. 
By this time I was come ; and when they saw their danger, and 
that it was in vain to resist, they begged for mercy. The captain 
told them he would spare their lives, if they would give him any 
assurance of their abhorrence of the treachery they had been 
guilty of, and would swear to be faithful to him in recovering the 
ship, and afterwards in carrying her back to Jamaica, from whence 
they came. They gave him all the protestations of their sincerity 
that could be desired, and he was willing to believe them, and 
spare their lives, which I was not against, only that I obliged 
him to keep them bound hand and foot while they were on the 
Island. 

While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain 's mate 
to the boat, with Orders to secure her, and bring away the oars 
and sails, which they did : and by and by three straggling men, 
that were (happily for them) parted from the rest, came back 
upon hearing the guns fired, and seeing the captain, who before 
was their prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitted to be 
bound also ; and so our victory was complete. 



ROBJNSOK CRUSOE. 



199 



It now xemained tlmt the captain and I sliouM inquire iiito 
one another's circumstaiices : I begaii first^ and lold Mm my 
wliole history^ whicli he heard i^itli an attention even to amaze- 
ment ; and partkiilarly at tlie wonderfal niaimer of my being 
lumiiäbed vvith jjrovmions aod amraunition ; and, indecd, as my 
atory is a whole coUixition af woiiders, it affc^ted him deeply. 
But when lie reflectcd Irom theiice lipon liimself, and how 1 
seemed to have becn preserved tbere on purpose to save Ms life, 
the tears ran down Ms face, and he could not speak a word more. 
Atler this commnuication was at au end, 1 carried him and Ms 
two raeii hito my apartment, leadixig them in just wliere I came 
out, tLz. at the top of ihc hoiisc, ^vhere I relVcshed them with 
»ucli provisions üs l had, and showcd them all tlie contrivancea 
I had raade, during my long, long inhabiting that place. 

All I sliowed them, all I said to them, was perfectly amazing; 
but, above all, the captam aduiired my fortilication, and how 
perlbcLlv I had concealed my retreat with a grove of trees, which, 
having been now planted near tvi enty ycars, and the trees grow* 
ing rauch fastcr than in England, w as becorae a little wood, and 
so tMck, that it was impassable in auy part of it, but at that one 
side where I liad reserved my little wind ing passage into it. I 
told Mm this waa my caatle and my residence, but that I had a 
ßeat in tlio eountry, hh most princes liave, whithcr I could rctrcat 
lipon occasionj and 1 wonld ühow hnn that too another time; but 
&t present onr hnsineaa was tu considerhow to recover the &hip. 
He agrecd with me aa to that ; but told me he waä perfectly at a 
losa what measures to take, for tliat there wcre still six-and- 
twenty handa on board, who having entered into a cursed con- 
spiracy, by wMeh they had all forfeited their lives to the law, 
would be hardened in it now by desperation, and would carry it 
on, knowing that, if they were subdued^ they would bc broiight 
to tho gallows, aü soon as they came to England, or to any of 
tlie English colojiies ; and that, tbcrelbre» there would be no at- 
tacking them with so Email a nuniber as we w ere. 

I mused for some time npun what he had äaid, and found it 
WAS a very rational conclusion, aud that, theretbre, something 
\^ as to be resoUed on speedily, as \\ eil to draw the men on board 
into Bome snare for iheir öurprise, aa to prevent their landing 
upon US, and destroying us, Upon tMs, it presently occnrred to 
me, that in a little whiie the ahip's crew, wondering what was 
become of their comradea, and of the boat, would certainly come 
on shore in their othei* boat, to look for them ; and that then, 
uerhaps, they might corae armed, and be too strong for us : this 
he allowed to be rational. Upon this, l told him tbe fn*st thing 
we had to do was to stAve the hont, w hi( h lay upon the beach, 
80 that they might not cjirry her off; and taking cvei-y tliing out 
of her, leave her so far useless as not to be tit to swira : accord- 
'ogly we weut on board, took the arms wMch were left on bourd 



200 ADVENTÜRES OP 

out of her, and whatever eise we found there, which was a bottle 
of brandy, and another of rum, a few biscuit-cakes, a hom of 
powder, and a great lump of sugar in a piece of canvass (the sugar 
was five or six pounds); all which was very welcome to me, 
espedally the brandy and sugar, of which I had none left for 
many years. 

When we had carried all these things on shore (the oars, mast, 
sail and rudder of the boat were carried away before, as above), 
we knocked a great hole in her bottom, that if they had come 
strong enough to master us, yet they could not carry off the boat. 
Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts that we could be able 
to recover the ship ; but my view was, that if they went away 
without the boat, I did not much qustion to make her fit again 
to carry us to the Leeward Islands, and call uponourfriends the 
Spaniards in my way ; for I had them still in my thoughts. 

Whüe we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by 
main strength, heaved the boat upon the beach so high, that the 
tide would not float her off at high-water mark, and besides, had 
broke a hole in her bottom too big to be quickly stopped, and 
were set down musing what we should do, we heard the ship 
fire a gun, and saw her make a waft with her ensign as a signal 
for the boat to come on board : but no boat stirred ; and they 
fired several times, making other signals for the boat At last, 
when all their signals and firing proved fruitless, and they found 
the boat did not stir, we saw them, by the help of my glasses, 
hoist another boat out, and row towards the shore; and we found, 
as they approached, that there were no less than ten men in her, 
and that they had fire-arms with them. 

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had a 
füll view of them as they came, and a piain sight even of their 
faces ; because the tide having set them a little to the east of 
the other boat, they rowed up under shore, to come to the same 
place where the other had landed, and where the boat lay ; by 
this means, I say, we had a füll view of them, and the captain 
knew the persons and characters of all the men in the boat, of 
whom, he said, there were three very honest fellows, who, he 
was sure, were led into this conspiracy by the rest, being over- 
powered and frightened ; but that as for the boatswain, who, it 
seems, was the chief officer among them, and aU the rest, they 
were as outrageous as any of the ship 's crew, and were no doubt 
made desperate in their new enterprise ; and terribly apprehen- 
sive he was that they would be too powerful for us. I smiled 
at him, and told him that men in our circumstances were past 
the Operation of fear ; that seeing almost every condition that 
could be was better than that which we were supposed to be in, 
we ought to expect that the consequence, whether death or life, 
would be sure to be a deliverance. I asked him what he thought 
of the circumstances of my life, and whether a deliverance were 



KOBIKaON CRUSOE. 201 

not wortli venturing for? And ivhcre, sir, said I, is jour belief 
of my being preserved here on purpose to siive yoiir life, whicli 
elevated you a little while ago ; for my part, said I, tiiere seems 
to nie but oTie tMng amiss in all tlie prospect of it. \Vli«tt is that ? 
saya he. Why^ says I, it is, tlmt as you say there are three or 
four honest fellows among them, wliich sliould he apared, had 
they been all of the wicked part of tlie cre w, l sliould have thongbt 
God's providcnce had singled thcm out to deliver thcm into joiir 
hands ; for, depeiid lipon it^ every man that comes ashore are 
ont owHp and shall die or liveas they behaveto us. As I spoke 
thia with a raised voke and checrfiil countenance, I foirnd it 
greatly encoura^ed him^ so weset vigorously to our business. 

Wehad, upon tlie first appearance of the hoat*ä coming from 
the ship, considered of separating our prisoners ; and we Lad, 
indecd, secured them effectTially. Two of thenij of whom the 
captaiii was \csn assiired than ordinary, I sent witli Friday, and 
one of the three delivered mcUf to my cave, where they were 
remote enough, and out of dan^er of being^ heard or discovered, 
or of finding their way ont of the woods if they could have de- 
livered themgelves : here they left thcm hound, but gave them 
provisions ; and promised ihem if they continued there ouietly, 
to give thetn their liberty in a day or two ; but that if they at- 
tempted their escapc, they should he put to dealh without mercy. 
They promised faithfuUy to bear their coofinement with patience, 
and Vere very thankfiil that they had snch good usage as to 
have provisions and light left them; for Friday gave them can- 
dies (fiuch as we made ourselvey) for their comfort ; and they did 
not knovv but that hc stood sentinel over tliem at the entrance. 

The other prisoners had better usage: two of them were kept 
pinioned, indeed, because the captain was not free to trust them; 
but the other two were takcn into mv servicei upon the Criptaina 
recommeodatirn, and npon their solcmnly engaging to live and 
die with us ; so with thcm and the three honest men we were 
aeven men well armed ; and I mtide no doubt we ahonld he ahle 
to deal well enough with the ten that were coming, eousidering 
that the captain had said that there were three or Ibur honest 
men araong them also. As soon ns they got to the place where 
their other boat lay* they ran their boat into the beach, and came 
on shore^ hauling the boat np after them^ w hich I was glad to 
8ce j for I was afraid they wonld rather have left the boat at an 
anchor, some distancc fi'om the shorCj with some hands in her 
to guard her, and so we should not he able to seiiEe the boat. 
Being on shore, the first thiog they did, they ran all to their 
other boat ; and it was easy to ssce they were nnder a great sur- 
prise to find her stripp ed, as above, of all that was in her, and a 
j^reat hole hi her bottoni. After they had mused awhjle upon 
this, they s^et up two or Üireo ^eat shouts, hallooing with all 
their might, to try it* they could mako their companions hear* 



202 ADVENTÜRES OP 

but all was to no purpose : then they came all close in a rii^, 
and fired a volley of their small arms, which, indeed, we heard, 
and thjß echoes made the woods ring ; but it was all one : tbose 
in the cave we were sure could not hear ; and tbose in our keep- 
ing, tbougb they heard it well enough, yet durst ^ve no ans wer 
to them. They were so astonished at the surprise of this, that, 
as they told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on board again 
to their ship, and let them know that the men were all murdered, 
and the long-boat staved ; accordingly, they immediately laimched 
their boat again, and got all of them on board. 

The captain was terribly aihazed and even confoimded at this, 
believing they would go on board the ship again, and set sail, 
giving their comrades over for lost, and so he should still lose 
the ship, which he was in hopes we should have recovered ; but 
he was quickly as much frightened the other way. 

They had not been long put off with the boat, but we per- 
ceived them all Coming on shore again; but with this new 
measure in their conduct, which it seems they consulted toge- 
ther upon, yiz. to leave three men in the boat, and the rest to go 
on shore, and go up into the country to look for their fellows. 
This was .a great disappointment to us, for now we were at a loss 
what to do ; as our seizing those seven men on shore would be 
no advantage to us, if we let the boat escape ; because they would 
then row away to the ship, and then the rest of them would be 
sure to weigh and set sail, and so our recovering the ship would 
be lost. However, we had no remedy but to wait and see what 
the issue of things might present. The seven men came on shore, 
and the three who remained in the boat put her off to a good 
distance from the shore, and came to an anchor to wait for them: 
so that it was impossible for us to come at them in the boat! 
Those that came on shore kept close together, marching towards 
the top of the little hill under which my habitation lay ; and we 
could see them plainly, though they could not perceive us. We 
could have been very glad they would have come nearer to us, 
so that we might have fired at them, or that they would have 
gone farther off, that we might have come abroad. But when 
they were come to the brow of the hill, where they could see a 
great way into the Valleys and woods, which lay towards the 
north-east part, and where the Island lay lowest, they shouted 
and hallooed tili they were weary; and not caring, it seems, to 
venture far from the shore, nor far from one another, they sat 
down together imder a tree, to consider of it. Had they thought 
fit to have gone to sleep there, as the other part of them had 
done, they had done the job for us; but they were too fiill of 
apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep, though they 
could not teil what the danger was they had to fear neither. 

The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this con- 
ßultation of theirs, viz. that perhaps they would all fire a volley 



BOBINSOK CRUSOE, 203 

R^ain» to endeavouT to make their fellows liear, and thatire should 
all sally upon theiDj just at tlie juiicture wheii their pieces were 
all discliargecU and they woidd certainly yield^ and we should 
have them without bloodtjhed. l likedtlus proposal, prov-ided 
it was done iThile wc were oear enoiigli to eome up to tbem 
bcfore they coiiid load their pieces again, But Ulis even did not 
happen ; and we hiy still a long time, very irresolute wbat 
course to take. Ät length I told them there would be nothiii^ 
done, in my opinion^ tili night ; and then, if they did not return 
to the boat, purbaps wc mischt find a way to get between them 
and tbe shore, and so mi|2fht use sorae stratß^em witb tbem in tbe 
boat to get them on skore» We waited a great whilc^ tliongh 
very impatient for their removing ; aiid were very uneasy, wben, 
after long consultations, we saw tbtmfi all start iip, anä niarch 
down towards tbe sea : it seems they bad such dreadful appre- 
benaions upon them of the danger of the place, that they resotved 
to go on board the ship a^aiu^ ^ve their companiona over for 
lost, and so go on with their iutetided voyage with tbe ship. 

As soon an I perceived tliem to go towards the ßhore, I ima- 
gined it to be, as it really was, that they bad given over their 
seareh, and were for going back again j and tbe captaiu, as soon | 
ns I told hini my thoughts, was ready to sink at tbe apprehen- 
sions of it : but I presently thou^bt of a atrata^em to fetch them 
back again, nnd wMch answered my end to a tittle. I ordered 
Friday and the captain's mate to go over tbe little creek west- 
irard, towards the place where the savages came on shore when 
Friday was rescued, and as booe as they came to a bttle rising 
groimd^ at about half a mile distance, l bade them balloo out, aa 
lüud aa they could, and wait tili they found the aeamen heard 
them ; that as soon as cver they heard the sejimen auswer them, 
they should return it again; and then keeping out of sight, take 
a round, always answeriug wben the otherri hallooed. to draw 
them as far mto the islandj and among the woods, as posüihle, 
and then wbecl about again to me, by such ways as I directed 
them. 

They were just going into the boat when Friday and the mate ^ 
hallooed: and they presently heard them, and answering, run 
along the shore w est ward, toward^a tbe voice they heard, when 
they were presently stopped by the creek, where the water being 
up, they could not get over, and called for the boat to conie up 
and set tbem over ; as, indeed, I expected. When they had set 
themselves over, I obaerved that the boat being gone a good 
way into the creek, and, as it were, in a harbour within the land, 
they took one of the three meu out of her, to ^o aloug with 
them, and left only two in the boat, having fastened her to 
the stump of a little tree on the shore. This was what 1 wished 
for; and immediately le^iving Friday and the captain's mate to 
their buniness, I took the re^t with me, and crossing the creek 

p 



204 ^ ADVENTÜRES OP 

out of tlieir sight, we surprised the two men before they were 
aware ; one of them lying on the shore, and the other being iu 
the boat. The fellow on shore was between sleeping and waking, 
and going to start up ; the captain, who was foremost, ran in upon 
Ijiim, and knocked him down ; and then called out to him in the 
boat to yield, or he was a dead man. There needed very few 
arguments to persuade a single man to yield, when he saw five 
men upon him, and his comrade knocked down ; besides, this was, 
it seems, one of the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny 
as the rest of the crew, and therefore was easily persuaded not 
only to yield, but afterwards to join very sincerely with us. In 
the mean time, Friday and the captain's mate so well managed 
their business with the rest, that they drew them, by hallooing 
and answering, from one hill to another, and from one wood to 
another, tili they not only heartily tired them, but left them 
where they were very sure they could not reach back to the boat 
before it was dark ; and, indeed, they were heartily tired them- 
selves also, by the time they came back to us. 
. We had nothing now to do but to watch foi^ them in the dark, 
and to fall upon them, so as to make sure work with them. It 

^^-.«^^^ was several hours after Friday came back to me before they came 
'b^^V* back to their boat; and we could hear the foremost of them, long 

«^ » before they came quite up, calling to those behind to come along ; 
i and could also hear them answer, and complain how lame and 

J^ y tired they were, and not able to come auy faster, which was very 

^ welcome news to us. At length they came up to the boat : but 

j ^^^t is impossible to express their confusion when they found the 

X. boat fast äground in the creek, the tide ebbed out, and their two 

3 Q ^ men gone. We could hear them call to one another in a most 
"^ lamentable manner, telling one another they were got into an 

L? Qüch anted isl§piL that either there were inhabitants in it, and 

V theysEouIcran be murdered, or eise there were devils and spirits 

in it, and they should be all carried away and devoured. They 
hallooed again, and called their two comrades by their names a 
great many times ; but no answer. After some time, we could 
see them, by the little light there was, run about, wringing their 
hands like men in despair ; and that sometimes they would go 
and sit down in the boat, to rest themselves ; then come ashore 
again, and walk about again, and so the same thing over again. 
My men would fain have had me give them leave to fall upon 
them at once in the dark ; but I was willing to take them at some 
advantage, so to spare them, and kill as few of them as I could ; 
and especially I was unwilling to hazard the killing any of our 
men, Imowing the others were very well armed. I resolved to 
wait, to seeif they did not separate; and, therefore, to make sure 
of them, I drew my ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday and 
the captain to creep upon their hands and feet, as close to the 
ground as they could, that they might not be discovered, and 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 205 

get as near tbem as they could possibly, before they offered 
to fire. 

They had not been long in tbat posture, when the boatswain, 
who was the principal ringleader of the mutiny, and had now 
shown himself the most dejected and dispirited of all the rest, 
came Walking towards them, with two more of the crew : the 
captain "v^as so eager at having this principal rogue so much in 
his power, that he could hardly have patience to let him come so 
near as to be sure of him, for they only heatd his tongue before : 
but when they came nearer, the captain and Friday, starting up 
on their feet, let fly at them. The boatswain was killed upon 
the spot ; the next man was shot in the body, and feil just by 
him, though he did not die tili an hour or two after; and the 
third ran for it. At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced 
with my whole army, which was now eight men, viz. myself, 
generahssimo ; Friday, my lieutenant-general ; the captain and 
Eis two men, and the three prisouers of war, whom we had trusted 
with arms. We came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that 
they could not see our number; and I made the man they had 
left in the boat, who was now oue of us, to call them by name, 
to try if I could bring them to a parley, and so might perhaps 
reduce them to terms ; which feil out just as we desired : for, 
indeed, it was easy to think, as their condition then was, they 
would be willing to capitulate. So he calls out, as loud as he 
could, to one of them, Tom Smith ! Tom Smith ! Tom Smith 
answered immediately, Is that Robinson ? For it seems, he knew 
the voice. The other anwered, Ay, ay ; for God's sake, Tom 
Smith, throw down your arms and yield, or you are all dead men 
this moment. — Who must we yield to? Where are they ? says 
Smith again. Here they are, says he ; here's our captain and 
fifty men with him, have been hunting you these two hours : the 
boatswain is killed. Will Fry is wounded, and I am a prisoner ; 
and if you do not yield, you are all lost. — Will they give us 
quarter then? says Tom Smith, and we will yield. — I will go ask, 
if you promise to yield, says Robinson : so he asked the captain; 
and the captain himself then calls out, You, Smith, you Know 
my voice ; if you lay down your arms immediately, and submit, 
you shall have your lives, all but Will Atkins. 




p2 



2Ü6 



ADVENTÜRES OF 






e 



m 



SECTION XXVII. 



ATKINS ENTHEATS THE CAPTAIN TO SPARE HIS LIFE. — THE LATTER 
B.ECOVEE8 HIS VESSEL FROM THE MUllNEERS, — AND ROBINSON 
IMAVm THE mi^ANB, 

Upok Öiis WiE AtkiDs cried out, For God's salte^ captain, ^ve 
me quarter; what havc I done? They bave all beeu as bad aa 
J i y^Mchj by tbe way, waa not true nehlier ; for, it seems, tliis 
Will Atkins was tbe first man tbat laid bold of tbc captain wheu 
they first mutinjcd, and used birn baibarously, in tyingliis batids, 
and fi^ving bim injuiions langiiage* However, tbe captaiH told 
him be must Iny down bis arms at dlscretion, and tniat to tbe 
govemor'a mercy: by Trbicb be meant me, ihr tbey all called me 
govemor. Ina word, tbey all laid down tbeir armsT and beg^ged 
tiieir lives ; and I aent tbe man tbat bad parleyed uitb thero, 
and two more, who bound tbem all ; and then my great army of 
fifty men, wbicb particnlarly witb tbose tbree, were in all bnt 
eiglit, came np and seized upon tbem^ and npon tbeir boat; ouly 
tbat I kept myself and one more out of sigfbt for reaauna uf State, 
Our next work was to repair tbe boat, aod tbink of aeiziiig 
ihe ßbip: and as for tbe captain, now be bad leisure to parley 
witb tbem, be expostulated ^vitb them npon tbe \illany of tbeil* 
practices witb bim, and at lengtb upon tbe i'urtber wickedness 
of tbeir design, and bow certainly it must bring tbem to misenr 
and distress in tlie end, and perbaps to tbe gallowa» They all 
appeared very penilent, and begged liard for tbeir livea. As for 
tbat, be told tbem tbey were none of bis prisoners, bnt ibe com- 
mander'a of tbe Island; tbat tbey tbougbt tbey bad -set him ou 
ßborie oa a barren, uninbabited island ; but it bad pleased God 
BO to direct tbem, tbat it was inbabited, and tbat the govemor 
was an EngUsbman ; tbat be migbt bang tbem all tbere, if be 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 207 

pleased ; but as he had given them all auarter, be supposed be 
would send them to England, to be dealt with there as justice 
requiredy except Atkins, whom he was commanded by the goveiv 
nor to advise to prepare for death, for that he would be hanged 
in the moming. 

Though all this was but a fiction of bis own, yet it had its 
desired effect : Atkins feil upon his knees, to beg the captain to 
intercede with the govemor for his life ; and all the rest begged 
of him, for God's sake, that they might not be sent to England. 

It now occurred to me, that the time of our deliverance was 
come, and that it would be a most easy thing to bring these 
fellows in to be hearty in getting possession of the ship ; so I re- 
tired in the dark from them, that they might not see what kind 
of a govemor they had, and called the captain to me : when I 
called, as at a good distance, one of the men was ordered to speak 
again, and say to the captain, Captain, the Commander caÜs for 
you ; and presently the captain replied, Teil his excellency I am 

i'ust a-coming. This more perfectly amused them, and tney all 
»elieved that the Commander was just by vnth his fifty men. 
Upon the captain's Coming to me, I told him my project for 
seizing the ship, which he liked wonderfully well, and resolved 
to put it in execution the next moming. But^ in order to execute 
it with more heart, and to be secure of success, I told him we 
must divide the prisoners, and that he should go and take Atkins 
and two more of the worst of them, and send them pinioned to 
the cave where the others lay. This was committed to Friday 
and the two men who came on shore with the captaia. They 
conveyed them to the cave as to a prison : and it was, indeed, a 
dismal place, especially to men in their condition. The others 
I ordered to my bower, as I called it, of which I have given a 
fiill description : and as it was fenced in, and they pinioned, the 
place was secure enough, considering they were upon their 
behaviour. 

To these in the moming I sent the captain, who was to enter 
into a parley with them ; in a word, to try them, and teil me 
whether he thought they might be trusted or no to go on board 
and surprise the ship. He talked to them of the injury done 
him, of the condition they were brought to, and that though the 
govemor had given them quarter for their lives as to the present 
action, yet that if they were sent to England, they would all be 
hanged in chains, to be sure; but that if they would join in so 
just an attempt as to recover the ship, he would have the 
govemor's engagement for their pardon. 

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be ao- 
cepted by menin their condition ; they feil down on their knees 
to the captain, and promised, with the deepest imprecations, that 
they would be faithful to him to the last drop, and that they 
should owe their üves to him, and would go with him all o\ei 



20S ADVENTURES OF 

the World j that they would own him as a father as long as they 
lived. Well, says the captain, I must go and teil the governor 
what you say, and see what I can do to bring bim to consent to 
it So he brought me an account of the temper he found them 
in, and that he verily believed they would be faithful. However, 
that we might be very secure, I told him he should go back again 
and choose out those five, and teil them, that they might see he 
did not want men, that he would take out those five to be his 
assistants, and that the governor would keep the other two, and 
the three- that were sent prisoners to the Castle (my cave) as 
hostages for the fidelity of those five ; and that if they proved 
unfaithful in the execution, the five hostages should be hanged 
in chains alive on the shore. This looked severe, and convinced 
them that the governor was in earnest : however, they had no 
way left them but to accept it ; and it was now the business of 
the prisoners, as much as of the captain, to persuade the other 
five to do their duty. 

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition : first, 
the captain, his mate, and passenger; second, the two prisoners 
of the first gang, to whom, haviug their character from the 
captain, I had given their liberty, and trusted them with arms : 
third, the other two that I had kept tili now in my bower pinioned, 
but, on the captain's motion, had now released : fourth, these five 
released at last ; so that they were twelve in all, besides five we 
kept prisoners in the cave for hostages. 

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with these 
hands on board Üie ship : but as for me and my man Friday, I 
did not think it was proper for us to stir, having seven men left 
behind ; and it was employment enough for us to keep them 
asunder, and supply them with victuals. As to the five in the 
cave, I resolved to keep them fast, but Friday went in twice a 
day to them, to supply them with necessaries ; and I made the 
other two carry provisions to a certain distance, where Friday 
was to take it. 

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the 
captain, who told them I was the person the governor had ordered 
to look after them ; and that it was the governor's pleasure they 
should not stir any where but by my direction ; that if they did. 
they would be fetched into the Castle, and be laid in irons : so 
that as we never suffered them to see me as a governor, I now 
appeared as another person, and spoke of the governor, the gar- 
rison, the Castle, and the like, upon all occasions. 

The captain now had no difficulty before him, but to fumish 
his two boats, stop the breach of one, and man them. He made 
his passenger captain of one, with four of the men ; and himself, 
his mate, and five more, went in the other ; and they contrived 
their business very well, for they came up to the ship about mid- 
night. As soon as they came within call of the ship, he made 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



209 



Robinson hail them, ftnd teil tbem tliey had bron^lit off tlie men 
and tbe boat, biit tbat it was a long- time before they Lad found 
tbem, and tbe like, holding tbem in a cbat tili tbey came to tbe 
sbip's side ; wben tbe «iptain and tbe inatc ent4:;ring first, w itb 
their anns, immediatelj knocked down tbe second matc and car- 
pentcr witb tbe butt eud of tbeir muskets, being: very faitbfuUy 
Becondßd by their men ; tbey secured all tbe reat tbat were upon 
tbe main and quarter decks, and began to fasten tbe batebes, to 
keep tbem down tbat were below ; \\hcn tbe otborboat aad tbeir 
men entcrmg at tbe forc-cbains» secured tbe forecastle of tbe sbip, 
and tbe scuttle whicb went down into tbe cook-room, making 
tbree men tbey foiind tbere prisoners. Wben tbis was dione, ana 
all safe upondeclc, tbe captain ordered tbe mate, witb tbree men, 
to break into tbe ronnd-bouse, wbere tbe new rebel captain lay, 
wbo ba\ing taken tbe alarm, had g-ot up, and witb tvi'o men and 
a boy bad «:ot fire arras in tbeir bands ; and when tbe matc, witb 
a crow, splLt; open tbe door, tbe new captain and bis men fired 
boldty among tbem, and wounded tbe mate witb a mnsket ball, 
wbich broke bis arm, nnd wounded two morc of tbe men, but 
killed nobody. Tbe mate calling for belp, rusbed, bowever, into 
tbe round-bouse, wounded as bc was, and witb bis pistol «bot 
tbe new captain tbrougb tbe bead, tbe bullet entering at bis 
moutbj and came out again bebind one of bis ears, so tbat be 
never spoke a word more i upon wbicb tbe rest yielded, und tbe 
abip was takcn effectually, witbout any more bves lost 

As soon as tbe ship was tbus ae^nred, tbe captain ordered 
seven gunsto be fired, wbieb was tbe si^ial a^rccdupon witli me 
to give me notice of bis success, wbich you may be sare 1 wa§ 
very glad ta bear, baving sat watebing upon tbe abore for it tili 
near two o'clock in tbe moniinE;. Having tbns beard tbe signal 
plainly» I laid me down ; and it baving been a dfiy of great fatigue 
to me, I slept very sound, tili I was soiüetbing surprised witb 
tbe noise of a gun ; andpresently starting up, I beard a man call 
me by tbe name of Governor, Governor, and presently I kne^ 
tbe captain*« voice ; wbcn cUmbing up to the top of tbehill, tbere 
be stoodj and poinüng to tbe sbip, be cmbraced nie tn bis armg. 
My dear frieiid and deliverer^ saya be. there's your sbip, for sbe t€^* 
is att yourS, ant! «o are we, ana all tbat belong to her. 1 cast ^ ^ 
iny eye» to tbe sbip, and tbere sbe rode witbiu little more than » 
half a mile of the sbore ; for tbey had weigbed her ancbor as 
Bonn as tbey were masters of her, and tbe weatber being fair^ 
bad brongbt ber to an ancbor just against tbe moutbof tbe little 
creek ; and tbe tide being up, tbe captain had brougbt tbe pinnace 
in near tbe place wbere I at first landed my rafts, and so lauded 
just at my door. I was at fii-st ready to sink down witb tbe 
«urprise ; for I saw my delivcrance, indeed, visibly put into my 
himdg, all things casy, and a large abip just ready to carry me 
away wbithcr 1 pleased to go. At first, for some time, I was 



210 ADVENTU&ES OF 

not able to answer him one word; but as be had taken me üi 
bis arms, I beld &st by him, or I sbould bave fidlen to tbe ground. 
He perceived tbe surprise, and immediately pulls a bottle out of 
bis pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial, wnicb be bad brougbt 
on purpose for me. After I bad drank it, I sat down upon tbe 
ground ; and tbouffb it brougbt me to myself, yet it was a good 
wbile befi)re I could speak a word to biim. AU tbis time tbe 
poor man was in as great an ecstasy as I, only not under any 
surprise, as I was ; and be said a tbousand kind and tender tbings 
to me, to compose and bring me to myself : but sucb was tbe 
flood of joy in my breast, tbat it put all my spirits into confusion; 
at last it broke out into tears ; and in a little wbRe after I re- 
fcoyered my speecb. I tben took my turn, and embraced bim as 
jmy deliverer, and we rejoiced togetber. I told bim I looked 
upon bim as a man sent from Heaven to deliver me, and tbat tbe 
wbole transaction seemed to be a cbain of wonders ; tbat sucb 
tbings as tbesb were tbe testimonies we bad of a secrct band of 
providence governing tbe world, and an evidence tbat tbe eye of an 
infinite power could searcb into tbe remotest corner of tbe world, 
and send help to tbe miserable whenever be pleased. I forgot not 
to lift up my beart in tbankfulness to Heaven ; and wbat beart 
could forbear to bless bim, wbo bad not only in a miraculous 
manner provided for me in such a wildemess, and in sucb a 
desolate condition, but from whom every deliverance must always 
be acknowledged to proceed? 

When we bad talked a while, tbe captain told me be bad 
brougbt me some little refresbment, such as tbe sbip afforded, 
and sucb as the wretches tbat bad been so long bis masters bad 
not plundered bim of. Upon tbis be called aloud to tbe boat, 
and bade bis men bring tbe tbings asbore tbat were for tbe 
governor ; and, indeed, it was a present as if I bad been one tbat 
was not to be carried* away witb them, but as if I bad been to 
dwell upon tbe island still. First, he had brougbt me a case of 
bottles lull of excellent cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira 
wine (tbe bottles beld two quarts eacb), two pounds of excellent 
good tobacco, twelve good pieces of tbe sbip 's beef, and six pieces 
of pork, witb a bag of peas, and about a bundred weigbt of bis- 
cuit : be also brougbt me a box of sugar, a box of flour, a bag 
fuU of lemons, and two bottles of lime juice, and abundance of 
otber tbings. But, besides these, and wbat was a tbousand times 
more useful to me, be brougbt me six new clean shirts, six very 
good neckcloths, two pair of gloves, one pair of sboes, a bat, and 
one pair of stockings, witb a very good suit of clotbes of bis own, 
wbicn had been wom but very little; in a word, he clothed me 
from bead to foot. It was a very kind and agreeable present, as 
any one may imagine, to one in my circumstances ; but never was 
any tbing in the world of tbat kind so unpleasant, awkward, and 
uneasy, as it was to me to wear sucb clotbes at first. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



211 



After thesc cereraonies weve past, and aftcr all bis good tliiögs 
were brought into my little apartraent, we b cgiin to consult what 
was to be doue witb tbe prisoners we had ; for it was worth con- 
sidering wbctheT wc might venture to take tbem away with us 
onio, espccially two of them, wliom \ve knew to be incorrigible 
and reiractory to tbe last degree ; and the captain said lie loiew 
tbey were such rogues, tbat there was no obliging them ; and if 
he <Ud carry them away, it must be in irons, as malefactors, to 
be delivcred over to jiiritice at the lirst Eiiglish colon^f be could 
€ome at; and I fimiid that the captain himsdfwas very anxioiis 
aboat it. Upon this 1 told him, tbat if hc desired it, 1 woiüd an- 
dertake to bruig: tbe two men be spoke of to make it their own 
requt^st that be shoiild leave tbem lipon tbe Island. 1 sbould be 
very glad of tliat, says tbe captaiu, with all my heart. — Well, 
says I, 1 will send for tbem up, and talk witb tbem for you. So 
I caused Friday and tbe two bustagcs, for thcy were now dia- 
charged^ tbcir comrades baving pertbrmed their promise ; I aay, 
I eaused tbe*n to go to tbe cave, and bring up the fiv© men, pinioned 
as they were, to tbe bovrer, and keep tbem ihere tili I came. After 
aome time, I camc tbither dressed in niy new habit ; and now I 
waa called goveraor again, ßeing all niet, and tbe captain with 
xne, I caused the men to be brougbt bcfore me, and I told them I 
bad got a full accimnt of their villaiious behaviour to the captain, 
and ho VT they bad nm away ivith tbe sbip, and were preparing 
to comrait fartber robberies, but Ibat l'rovidencc bad ensnared 
them in tbeir own ways» atid that ihey were fallen into the pit 
wbicb tbey bad dng for others, I let them know tbat by my 
direction the sbip had been seized; that sbe lay now in tbe road; 
and tbey miglit »ee, by and by, that tbeir new'captain bad r&- 
ccived tlie reward of bis vilkny, and tbat tbey would see him 
hanging at the yard-ami : tbat as to tbem, I wanted to know what 
they had to say why I sbould notexecute them as pirates^ taken 
in the fact, as by my commission they could not doubt but I bad 
autbority so to do. 

One of them answered in the name of the rest, tbat they had 
nothing to say but this, that wben tbey were taken, tbe captaia 
promiised them their livea, and tbey biimbly implored my mercy. 
But I told tliem I knew not what merey to show tbem j for as 
for myyelf, I bad resolved to qnit the Island witb all my men^ 
and had taken passage witb tbe captain to go for England; and 
as for the captaui, he could not carry them to England otber 
than as prisoners, in irons, to be tried for mutiny, and running 
away with tbe ship j tbe conscqucnce of which» they niust needs 
know, would be tbe gallows ; so tbat I could not teil what was 
best for them, unless tbey had a mind to take their fate in the 
Island : if they desired tbat, as 1 bad liberty to leave tbe ialand^ 
I had sonie inclination to give them their lives, if tbey thought 
they could sJüft ou shore. Tbey seemcd very thankful Ibr it, and 



212 ADVENTÜRES OP 

Said they would much rather venture to stay tliere than be car- 
ried to England to be banged : so I left it on that issue. 

However, tbe captain seemed to make some dif&culty of it, as 
if be durst not leave tbem tbere. Upon this I seemed a little 
angry with tbe captain, and told bim tbat tbey were my prisonenj, 
not bis ; and seeing tbat I bad ofifered tbem so mucb favour, I 
would be as good as my word ; and tbat if be did not tbink fit to 
consent to it, I would set tbem at liberty, as I found tbem ; and 
if be did not like it, be migbt take tbem again if be could catcb 
tbem. Upon tbis tbey appeared very tbankful, and I accordingly 
set tbem at liberty, and bade tbem retire into tbe woods to Sie 
place wbence tbey came, and I would leave tbem some fire-arms, 
some ammunition, and some directions bow tbey sbould üve very 
well, if tbey tbougbt fit. Upon tbis I prepared to go on board tbe 
sbip ; but told tbe captain I would stay tbat nigbt to prepare my 
tbings, and desired bim to go on board, in, tbe mean time, and keep 
all rigbt in tbe sbip, and send tbe boat on sbore next day for me ; 
ordering bim, at all events, to cause tbe new captain, wbo was 
killed, to be banged at tbe yard-arm, tbat tbese men migbt see bim. 

Wben tbe captain was gone, I sent for tbe men up to me to 
my apartment, and entered seriously into discourse witb tbem on 
tbeir circumstances. I told tbem I tbougbt tbey bad made a 
rigbt cboice; tbat if tbe captain bad carried tbem away, tbey 
would certainly be banged. I sbowed tbem tbe new captain 
banging at tbe yard-arm of tbe sbip, and told tbem tbey bad 
notbing less to expect. 

Wben tbey bad all declared tbeir willingness to stay, I tben 
told tbem I would let tbem into tbe story of my living tbere, and 
put tbem into tbe way of making it easy to tbem : accordingly, 
1 gave tbem tbe wbole bistory of tbe place, and of my Coming to 
it ; sbowed tbem my fortifications» tbe way I made my bread, 
planted my com, cured my grapes ; and, in a word, all tbat was 
necessary to make tbem easy. I told tbem tbe story also of tbe 
seventeen Spaniards tbat were to be expected, for wbom I left a 
letter, and made tbem promise to treat tbem in common witb 
tbemselves. Here it may be noted, tbat tbe captain bad ink on 
board, wbo was greatly surprised tbat I never bit upon a way 
of making ink of cbarcoal and water, or of sometbing eise, as I 
bad done tbings mucb more difficult 

I left tbem my fire-arms, viz. five muskets, tbree fowling-pieces, 
and tbree swords. I bad above a barrel and a balf of powder 
left ; for after tbe first year or two I used but little, and wasted 
none. I gave tbem a description of tbe way I managed tbe goats, 
and directions to milk and fatten tbem, and to make botb butter 
and cbeese: in a word, I gave tbem every part of my own story, 
and told tbem I sbould prevail witb tbe captain to leave tbem 
two barreis of gunpowder more, and some garden seeds, wbicb 
I told tbem I would bave been very glad of : also I gave tbem 



ROBINSON ,CRUSOE. 



213 



the bag of peas whicli tlic captain had bronght me to cat, and 
bade them De surc to sow and increase them. 

Having done all tliis, I leffc them the next day, and went on board 
the 3hip. We prepared Lmraediately to sail, but did not weigh that 
night, The next moming early, two of the five mcn came swim- 
mmg to the ship's sidc, and makitig a most lamentable complaint 
of the other tbree, begged to be takeu into the sliip, for God'3 
sake, for they should be durdered, and begged the captain to take 
them on board, thoiigh he hanged them ünmediately. Uponthis, 
) the captain pretended to have no power without me ; but after 
^ome difficulty, and after their solemn proniisea of amendment, 
they were takcn on board, and were some time after soundly 
whipped and pickled ; after which they proved very honest and 
qniet fei Iowa. 

Some time after this, the boat was ordered on shore, the tide 
being np, witb the tliings promised to the mcn ; to which the 
captain, at my iotercession, cauaed their chestg and clothes to be 
added, which they took, and were very tbankfiil for. I also en- 
couraged themi by tcUing them that if it lay In my power to send 
I any vessel to take them in» I would not forget them» 

When I took leave of this ialand, I carried on board, for reliques, 
the great goat-skuicap I had raade, my umbreUa, and one of my 
parrots ; also I forgot not to take the money I formerly men- 
tioned, which had laid by m© go long useless, that it was gi'ovvTi 
ru^ty or tarnished^ and could bardly pass for sÜver, tili it had 
been a little rubbed and handled ; aa also the money I fownd in 
the wreck of the Spanisb ship. And tbua I left the Island, the 
19tb ofDecember, as I fonnd by the Bbip's account^ in the year 
1G86, after I had been upon it eigbt-nnd-twenty years, two months^ 
and niueteen days; being delivered from this aecond cüpti^i^y the 
^ame day of the montb that I tirst made my escape in the long- 
iioat, fro'ra among the Mocjrs of Sallee. In thiH vesael» at^r a 
long voyuge, I arrived in England the llth of Jane, in tbc year 
1687, having been thirty-ftve years absent. 



<* 



2H 



ADVENTÜRES OF 



^U^ 



'■'H.iV 



m 



SECTION XXVJII. 



EüBINSOM GOES TO LISBON, WHERE HE PINDS THE PORTUGÜESE 
CAPTA1^'^, WHO RENDEES HIM AN ACCOUNT OP HIS PROPERTY IN 
THE BRAZIL8.— ÖETS OUT ON HIS RETURN TO ENÜLAND BY LAND. 

When I came to England, I was as perfect a stran^er to all tbe 
World as if I Imd never been knowti tliere* My benefactor and 
faitliful Steward^ wliom 1 Lad left niy raoney in trust witTs, was 
alive, but bad liad grcat mmfortunes iii the world ; Tvas become 
a widüw tbc second time, und very low in tbe world. I made ber 
very easy as to wbat sLe owed me, assiiriag ber 1 would give ber 
HO trouble ; but on tbe coiitrary, in gratitude ibr former care and 
laitbluluesa to mc, I rdieved lier as my little stock woidd aflbrd; 
whicb, at that timc, wouM indced allow rae to do but little for 
her ; but I assiired ber I woidd never forget ber former krndness 
to me 'f nor did I ibrget ber wlien I bad «ußicietit to belp ber, as 
shall be observed in its prnpcr place, I went down aftenvards into 
Yorkshire : but my falber and motber were dead, and all tbe 
ikmUy extinctj except tbat I found tvvo sisters, and two of the 
cbildren of one of my brothers ; and as I bad been long ago given 
over for de^nd, tliere bad been no provision made for me ; so tbat, 
in a Word, I foniid notbing to relieve or assist me ; and tbat tbe 
iittle money I bad would not do loucb for me as to settling ia i 
tbe World. ' 

I met witb one piece of gratitnde, indeed, wbicb 1 did not ex- 
pect; and tbis was, tbat the master of tbe sbip wbora 1 bad so 
nappily delivered, and by tbe same means saved tbe sbip and 
cargo, having given a very bandaome account to tbe owners of 
tbe manner büw I had saved tbe lives of tbe men, and tbe ship, 
tbey invited me to meet them, and Boine other mercbants con- 
ceraed, and all togetber made me a very handsome compbment 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 215 

lipon the subject, and a present of almost two Irandred pounds 
Sterling. 

But after making several reflections upon the circumstances of 
my life, and how little way thiswonld go towards settling me in 
the World, I resolved to go to Lisbon, and see if I might not come 
by some information of uie State of my plantation in the Brazils» 
and of what was become of my partner, who, I had reason to 
suppose, had some years past given me over for dead. With this 
view I took shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived in April follow- 
^S » Kiy ^^T^ Friday accompanying me very honestly m all theso 
ramblings, and proving a most faithful servant upon all occasions. 
When I came to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry, and to my par- 
ticular satisfaction, my old friend the captain of the ship who first 
took me up at sea off the shore of Africa. He was now grown 
old, and had left oflF going to sea, having put bis son, who was 
far from a young man, into bis ship, and who still used the Brazil 
trade. The old man did not know me : and, indeed, I hardly 
knew him : but I soon brought him to my remembrance, and as 
soon brought myself to bis remembrance, when I told him who 
I was. 

After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance 
between us, I inquired, you may be sure, after my plantation and 
my partner. The old man told me he had not been in the Brazils 
for about nine years ; but that he could assure me that when he 
came awaymy partner was living ; but the trustees, whom I had 
joined with him to take cognizance of my part, were both dead: 
that, however, he believed I would have a very good account of 
the improvement of the plantation ; for that upon the general 
belief of my being cast away and drowned, my trustees had given 
in the account of the produce of my part of the plantation to the 
procurator-fiscal, who had appropriated it, in case I never came 
to Claim it, one-third to the kmg, and two-thirds to the monastery 
of St. Augustine, to be expended for the benefit of the poor, and 
for the conversion of the Indians to the Catholic faith ; but that 
if I appeared, or any one for me, to claim the inheritance, it would 
be restored ; only that the improvement, or annual production, 
being distributed to charitable uses, could not be restored : but 
he assured me that the Steward of the.king's revenue from lands, 
and the proviedore, or Steward of the monastery, had taken great 
care all along that the incumbent, that is to say, my partner, gave 
every year a faithful account of the produce, of which they had 
duly received my moiety. I asked him if he knew to what height 
of improvement he had brought the plantation, and whether he 
thought it might be worth looMng afler ; or whether, on my going 
thither, I should meet with any obstruction to my possessing my 
just right in the moiety. He told me he could not teil exactly 
to what degree the plantation was improved, but this he knew, 
that my partner was grown exceeding rieh upon the enjoying his 



216 ADVENTURES OP 

part of it ; and that, to the best of bis remembrance, be bad beard 
that tbe king's tbird of my part, wbicb was, it seems, granted 
away to some otber monastery or religious bouse, amounted to 
above two bundred moidores a-year: tbat as to my being 
restored to a quiet possession of it, tbere was no question to be 
made of tbat, my partner being alive to witness my title, and my 
name being also enroUed in tbe register of tbe country : also he 
told me, that tbe survivors of my two tnistees were very fair 
honest people, and very wealthy : and be believed I would not 
only have their assistance for putting me in possession, but would 
find a very considerable sum of money in their hands for my 
account, being the produce of the farm while their fathers beld 
tbe trust, and before it was given up, as above ; which, as he 
remembered, was for about twelve years. 

I showed myself alittle concerned and uneasy at this account, 
and inquired of the old captain how it came to pass that the 
trustees should thus dispose of my effects, when be knew that I 
had made my will, and had made bim, tbe Portuguese captain, 
my universal heir, &c. 

He told me that was true ; but that as tbere was no proof of 
my being dead, he could not act as executor, until some certain 
account should come of my death ; and, besides, he was not 
willing to intermeddle with a thing so remote : that it was true 
he had registered my will, and put in bis claim ; and could he 
have given auy account of my being dead or alive, be would 
have acted by procuration, and taken possession of the ingenio 
(so they called tbe sugar-bouse), and have given bis son, who was 
now at the Brazils, Orders to do it. But, says the old man, I 
have one piece of news to teil you, which, perhaps, may not be so 
acceptable to you as the rest ; and that is, believing you were 
lost, and all the world believing so also, your partner and trustees 
did offer to account with me, in your name, for six or eight of 
the first years' profits, which I received. There being at that 
time great disbursements for increasing the works, building an 
ingenio, and buying slaves, it did not amount to near so much 
as afterwards it produced : however, says tbe old man, I shall 
give you a true account of what I have received in all, and how 
I have disposed of it. ^ 

After a few days' furtber Conference with this ancient friend, be 
brought me an account of tbe first six years* income of my plan- 
tation, signed by my partner and tbe merchant trustees, being 
always delivered in goods, viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar in 
chests, besides rum, molasses, &c., which is the consequence of a 
sugar-work ; and 1 found, by tbis account, that every year tbe 
income considerably increased ; but, as above, tbe disbursements 
being large, the sum at first was small : however, tbe old man 
let me see that he was debtor to me four bundred and seventy 
moidores of gold, besides sixty chests of sugar, and fifteen double 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 21 T 

rolls of tobacco, wWch were lost in liis ship ; lie having been 
shipwrecked coming hörne to Lisbon, about eleven years afteip 
my leaving the place. The good man then began to complain of 
his misfortunes, and how he had been obliged to make use of my 
money to recover his losses, and buy him a share in a new ship. 
However, my old friend, says he, you shall not want a snpply in 
your necessity ; and as soon as my son retums, you shall be fuUy 
satisfied. Upon this, he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me one 
hundred and sixty Portugal moidores in gold ; and giving the 
writiogs of his title to the ship, which his son was gone to the 
Brazils in, of which he was a quarter part owner, and his son 
another, he puts them both into my hands, for security of the 
rest. 

I was too much moved witli the honesty and kindness of the 
poor man to be able to bear this ; and remembering what he had 
done for me, how he had taken me up at sea, and how generously 
he had used me on all occasions, and particularly how sincere a 
friend he was now to me, I could hardly refrain weeping at what 
he had said to me ; therefore I asked him if his circumstances 
admitted him to spare so much money at that time, and if it 
would not straiten him ? He told me he could not say but it 
might straiten him a little ; but, however, it was my money, and 
I might want it more than he. 

Every thing the good man said was füll of affection, and I could 
hardly refrain from tears while he spoke ; in short, I took one 
hundred of the moidores, and called for a pen and ink to give him 
a receipt for them : then I returned him the rest, and told him if 
ever I had possession of the plantation, I would retum the other 
to him also (as, indeed, I afterwards did) ; and that as to the biU 
of sale of his part in his son's ship, I would not take it by any 
means : but that if I wanted the money, I found he was honest 
enough to pay me ; aud if I did not, but came to receive what he 
gave me reason to expect, I would never have a penny more 
from him. 

When this was past, the old man asked me if he should put 
me into a method to make my claira to my plantation? I told 
him I thought to go over to it myself. He said I might do so, if 
I pleased ; but that if I did not, there were ways enough to 
secure my right, and immediately to appropriate the profits to 
my use : and as there were ships in the river of Lisbon just ready 
to go away to Brazil, he made me enter my name in a public 
register, with his affidavit, affirming, upon oath, that I was alive, 
and that I was the same person who took up the land for the 

Elanting the said plantation at first. This being regularly attested 
y a notary, and a procuration affixed, he directed me to send it, 
with a letter of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance at 
the place ; and then proposed my staying with him tül an account 
came of the retum. 



218 ADVEMTURES OF 

Never was anytliing more honourable than the proceedings 
üpon this procuration ; for in less than seven months I received 
a large packet from the survivors of my trustees, the merchants, 
for whose account I went to sea, in which were the foUowing 
particular letters and papers enclosed. 

First, There was the account-current of the produce of my 
farm or plantation, from the year when their fathers had balanced 
with my old Portugal captain, being for six years : the balance 
appeared to be one thousand one hundred and seventy-four 
moidores in my favour. 

Secondly, There was the account of four years more, while they 
kept the effects in their hands, before the government claimed 
the administration, as being the öffects of a person not to be 
found, which they called civil death ; and the balance of this, the 
value of the plantation increasing, amounted to nineteen thou- 
sand four himdred and forty-six crusadoes, being about three 
thousand two hundred and forty moidores. 

Thirdly, There was the prior of Augustine's account, who had 
received the profits for above fourteen years ; but not being to 
account for what was disposed of by the hospital, very honestly 
declared he had eight huudred and seventy-two moidores not 
distributed, which he acknowledged to my account : as to the 
king's part, that refunded nothing. 

There was a letter of my partner's, congratulating me very 
affectionately upon my being alive, giving me an account how the 
estate was improved, and what it produced a year ; with a par- 
ticular of the number of Squares or acres that it contained, how 
planted, how many slaves there were upon it, and making two 
and twenty crosses for blessing^, told me he had said so many Ave 
Marias to thank the blessed Virgin that I was alive ; invitiug me 
very passionately to come over and take possession of my own ; 
and, in the mean time, to give him Orders to whom he should 
deliver my eflfects, if I did not come myself ; concluding with a 
hearty tender of his friendship, and that of his family ; and sent 
me, as a present, seven fine leopards' skins, which he had, it 
seems, received from Africa, by some other ship that he had sent 
thither, and who, it seems, had made a better voyage than I. 
He sent me also five chests of excellent sweetmeats, and a hun- 
dred pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so large as moidores. By 
the same fleet, my two merchant trustees shipped me one thou- 
sand two hundred chests of sugar, eight hundred rolls of tobacco, 
and the rest of the whole account in gold. 

I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of Job was 
better than the beginning. It is impossible to express the flut- 
terings of my very heart, when I found all my wealth about me ; 
for as the Brazil ships come all in fleets, the same ships which 
brought my letters brought my goods : and the effects were safe 
iu üie river before the letters came to my band. In a word, I 



ROBINSON CEÜ80E. 



219 



tumed palc and ^ev.- ück ; and Imd not tlie old man nm aüd 
l'etched me a cordial, I believe tlie andden surprise of joy had 
overaefc nature, and 1 had died lipon the spot : nay, after that, 
I continued very ill, and was au some hours, tili a physician 
being sent Jbr, and sDmething of Ibe real cause of tny üIdcss bping^ 
kjiown, he ortlered me to be let blood; after which I had reue f, 
and grevv well : but I verily beheve, if I had not been eased by a 
vent given in that mann er to the spirits, I shonld have died. 

I ivaö now master, all on a Buddenj of above five thousand 
ponnds sterlincr in mxmey, and had an esuite, as I raight well call 
iL, in the Brazdsj of ubove a tbousand pounds a year, as sure as 
au estate of lands in England ; and» in a word, 1 was in a con- 
ditiüii whicli I scarceknew bo\v to luiderstand, or liow to conapose 
mysclf for the enjoynient of it. The lirst thing 1 did was to re- 
compense my urigmal beuetactop, my good old cjiptain, who had 
been first charitable to nie in nr»y distt-ecis, kind to nie in my be- 
giimhig, and honest to me at the end. 1 sbowed bim ad ihat 
was sent to me ; I told him, that next to the providence of Heaven, 
whicb difäposed all things^ it was ovving to Mm; and that it now 
lay on me to revvard bim, wlnch I would do a bnndred-fold t so 
I first returucd to bnn tbe bundrt^d moidoreä, 1 had reccived of 
him ; then 1 sent for a nolury, and causud him to draw up a 
general release or discbarge frum tlie four hnndred and seveiity 
moidoresj wbich he had acknowledged he owed me, in tbefiillest 
and firrnest manner possible. Afier which I caused a procuration 
to be drawüj empowering him to be my receiver of the annual 
jjrotita of my plautation, and appoiuting my partner to account 
witb bim, and make tlie rcLnrna by the usnal tleets to Mm in my 
Dame ; and a clause in the end, being a grant of one bnndred 
nioidorea a year to him dnring bis life, out of the effect^, and 
titty moidores a year to bis son aft€r him, for bis Life : and thuä 
I requited my old man. 

1 was now to consider whicb way to steer my coarsc next, and 
wbat to do witb the estate that Providenee had thus put into my 
hands ; and, indecd, 1 bad mure care upon my head now than I 
1 bad in my ailent State of lifc in tlic ishind, wherc I wanted 
nothing but vrbat I had, and bad notbing but uhat 1 wajited ; 

whcreaa 1 had now a great charge npon me, and my bnsiness was 
how to securc it. 1 had never a cave now to hide my money in, or 

, place wbere it might lie uithout lijck or key, tili it grew mouldy 
^tind tamished, before any body wonld mccidle witb it ; on the 
contrary, I knew not where to put it, or whom to trust wiih it. 

My old patron, the captaiu, indeed^ was honest, and that was the 
^only rel'uge I bad. In tbe next place, my intei-est in the Brazils 
%cemed to suramon me thither ; but now 1 could not teil how to 
Ktbink of going tbither tili 1 bad siettlcd my atlairs, and left my 
küccts in some safe hand^ behind me. At first l tbonght of my 
r^ld friend the widow, who I knew was honest, and would be just 

Q 



220 ÄDVENTÜRES OP . 

to me ; but then she was in years, and but poor, and, for augbt 
I knew, migbt be in debt : so tbat, in a word, I had no way but 
to go back to England myself, and take my effects with me. 

It was some montbs, bowever, before I resolved upon this ; 
and, therefore, as I had rewarded tbe old captain tnlly, and to 
bis satisfaction, wbo had been my former benefactor, so I began 
to think of my poor widow, whose husband had been my first 
benefactor, and she, while it was in her power, my faithful Steward 
and instructor. So the first thing I did, I got a merchant in Lisbon 
to write to his correspondent in London, not only to pay a bill, 
but to go find her out, and carry her in money a himdred pounds 
for me, and to talk with her, and comfort her in her poverty, by 
telling her she should, if I lived, have a farther supply : at the 
same time I sent my two sisters in the country a himdred pounds 
each, they being, though not in want, yet not in very good cir- 
cumstances ; one having been married and left a widow ; and the 
other having a husband not so kind to her as he should be. But 
amongallmy relations or acquaintances, I could not yet pitchupou 
one to whom I durst commit the gross of my stock, that I might 
go away to the Brazils, and leave things safe behind me ; and 
this greatly perplexed me. 

I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, and have set- 
tled myself there ; for I was, as it were, naturalized to the place ; 
but I had some little scruple in my mind about religion, which 
insensibly drew me back. However, it was not religion that kept 
me from going there for the present ; and as I had made no scruple 
of being openly of the religion of the country all the while I was 
among them, so neither did I yet; only that, now and then, 
having of late thought more of it than formerly, when I began to 
think of living and dying among them, I began to regret my 
having professed myself a papist, and thought it might not be 
the best religion to die with. 

But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that kept me 
from going to the Brazils, but that really I did not know with 
whom to leave my eflfects behind me : so I resolved, at last, to 
go to England with it, where, if I arrived, I concluded I should 
make some acquaintauce, or find some relations that would be 
faithfiü to me ; and, accordingly, I prepared to go to England 
with all my wealth. 

In Order to prepare things for ray going home, I first, the 
Brazil fleet being just going away, resolved to give answers 
suitable to the just and faithful account of things I had from 
thence ; and, first, to the prior of St. Augustine I wrote a letter 
füll of thanks for their just dealings, and the offer of the eight 
hundred and seventy-two moidores which were undisposed of, 
which I desired might be given, five hundred to the monastery, 
and three himdred and seventy-two to the poor, as the prior 
ahould directj desiring the good padre's prayers for me, and the 



EOBINSON CRUSOE, 



221 



lilce. I wrote next a letter of thanka to my two trustees, witb 
all tlie acisnowledgraent Ihat so miich justice and honesty called 
for; as for seiiding them any present^ they wer© far above having 
any occasion for it. Lastly^ I wrote to my pai'tner, Acknowled^- 
ing bis industry m tbe improvintr the plantatian. and bis integrity 
in iticreasinc^ the stock of the works ; giWng bim instructiona for 
bis tutiire o^avemment of my part, accordin^ to tbe powera 1 had 
left witb my old patron, to nbum I desired bim to send wbatever 
becanie due to me, tili bc sbould bear from me raore particitlarly ; 
assuring bim tbat it was my inten tion not oiily to come to bim, 
biit to settle myself tbere for tbe remaiuder of my lifc. To thia 
1 added a Tpry'bandaome present of sotnc Jtaban silka for bis 
wife and two daugbtcrs, for Butb tbe captain s son inform ed me 
he bad; witli two pieces of tine En]B^lisb broad clotb, tli« best I 
could f!:et in Lisbon, five pieces of black biiize, and some Flandera 
lAce of a good value. 

Having: tbus settled my afTairs, sold roy cargo, and tumed all 
my effects into good bills of exehange, my next difficulty vths^ 
wiiicb way to go to England : I bad been accuBtomed enougb to 
tbe sei% and yet I bad a stränge aver^ion to go to England by 
sea at ibat time ; and tbougli I conld give no reason for it, yet 
tbe diflieiiltyiiicreasedupon me so raucb» tbat tbougb I bad once 
sbippcd ni y baggage, in order to g;o, yet I altered my mind, and 
tbat not ouce, but two or tbree times, 

It is triie, I liad been very imfortMnate by sea, and tbi« migbt 
be some of tbe reasons ; bnt let no man sügbt tbe stron^ Impulses 
of bis own tboughts in cases of 8ucb moment: two of tbe sbips 
wbicb 1 bad singled out to go 'm, l mean morc particulariy singled 
ont tbaii any otber, baving put my tbings on board one of tbem, 
and in ibe otber to have agreed witb tbe captain ; 1 say, two of 
tliese sbipa miscarried, viz. oue was taken by tbe Älgerines, and 
tbe otber was cast away on tbe Start, near Torbay, and all tbe 
people drowned, except tbree ; so tbat in either of tbose vessels 
I bad been made miserable. 

Ilaxing been tbus baraased m my thongbts* my oUl pilot, to 
wbom I communicated every tliin^, pressed me camestly not to 
go by »cn, but either to go by laiid to the Groyne (Corunna), and 
cross over the Bay of Biscay to Rocbelle, from whence it was 
but an ensy and saf'e jouniey hy laiid to Paris, and so to Calais 
and Dover; or to go up to Madrid, and so all the way by land 
tbrougb France. In a word, I was ao prepossessed against my 
going by sea at all, except from Cnlais to Dover, tbat I resolved 
to travel all the way by land ; wbich, as I was not in baste, and 
did not vahie tbe cbarge, was by mucb tbe pleasanter way : and 
to make it more so, my old captain broiigbt an Et\glisb gentle- 
man, tbe ston of a merebajitin Liabon, wbo was williug to travel 
witb me ; after wbieb wc picked up two more EnglLsh mercbants 
also, and two youog PortugiieHe genrlemenj tbe last going to 
Q 2 



222 ADVENTÜRES OF 

Paris only ; so that in all tliere were six of us, and five servants; 
the two merchants and the tWo Portuguese contenting themselves 
with one servant between two, to save the charge; and as for me, 
I got an English sailor to travel with me as a servant, besides 
my man Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable of 
supplying the place of a servant on the road. 

In this manner I set ont from Lisbon ; and our Company being 
very weU mounted and armed, we made a little troop, whereof 
they did me the honour to call me captain, as well because I was 
the oldest man, as because I had two servants, and, indeedj was 
the original of the whole journey. 

As I have troubled you with none of my sea Journals, so I 
shall trouble you now with none of my land Journal ; but some 
ädventures that happened to us in this tedious and difficult 
journey I must not omit. 

When we came to Madrid, we being all of us strangers to Spain, 
were willing to stay some time to see the court of Spain, and to 
see what was worth observing; but it being the latter part of the 
Summer, we hastened away, and set out from Madrid about the 
middle of October ; but when we came to the edge of Navarre, 
we were alarmed, at several towns on the way, vrith an account 
that so much snow was fallen on the French side of the moun- 
tains, that several travellers were obliged to come back to Pam- 
peluna, after having attempted, at an extreme hazard, to pass on. 

When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so, indeed; and 
to me, that had been always used to a hot climate, and tocountries 
where I could scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was insuflfer- 
able : nor, indeed, was it more painful than surprising, to come 
but ten days before out of Old Castile, where the weather was 
not only warm, but very hot, and immediately to feel a wind 
from the Pyrenean mountains, so very keen, so severely cold, as 
to be intolerable, and to endanger the benumbing and perishing 
of our fingers and toes. 

Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw the mountains 
all covered with snow, and feit cold weather, which he had never 
Seen or feit before in his life. To mend the matter, when we 
came to Pampeluna, it continued snowing with so much violence, 
and so long, that the people said winter was come before its 
time ; and the roads, which were difficult before, were now quite 
impassable ; for, in a word, the snow lay in some places too 
thick for us to travel, and being not hard frozen, as is the case 
in the northem countries, there was no going without being in 
danger of being buried alive every step. We stayed no less than 
twenty days at Pampeluna ; when seeing the winter Coming on, 
and no likelihood of its being better, for it was the severest winter 
all overEurope that had beenknown in the memory of man, I pro- 
posed that we should all go away to Fontarabia, and there take 
shipping for Bourdeaux, which was a very little voyage, But 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



223 



wiiile I was coiisidering tliia, there came in four Frencli gentle- 
men, wlio having been stopped on tbe Freucli side of tlie passes, 
as we wcre on the Spankb, had fuund out a ^lide, wliOj traversing 
the country near the hcad of Lanoruedoc, had brought tbem over 
tlie moimtams by such ways, tbat they were not inucb incom- 
moded witb the snow ; foc where tbey met witb snow in any 
quantity, tbey said it was frozen hard enough to bcar them atid 
tbeir horses. We sent for tliis guidej wlio told us he ivould un- 
dertake to carry us tbe same way witb no hiizai-d irom the snow, 
provided we were arnied suffioiently to protect ourselves from 
mld beasts ; for, he said, upon these great anows it was frequent 
for some wohes to sbovv theniselvea at the foot of the mountaina, 
being made ravenouB tor waiit of food, the ^ound being covered 
witb snow. We ttjld bim we were w eÜ enougb prepared for such 
creatures as they werß, if hß would iusure us froin a kind of two- 
legged wülvea, whidk, vfo were told, we were in most danger 
from, especially on the Frcndi side of the mo\mtains. He satis- 
fied US that there was no danger of that kind in the way tbat we 
were to go : so we readily agreed io ftdluw bim, as did also twelve 
other gentlemen, witb tbeir servauts, Eiome Freneh, some Spanish, 
who, as I aaid, had attempted to go, and were obliged to corae 
back again. 

Accordangly, we »et out from Pampeluna^ with our guide, on 
the 15th of November; and, indeed, I was surpriaed, when, instead 
of going forward, he came directly back witb us on the same road 
tbat we came from Madrid, about twenty miles ; when having 
passed two rivers, and come into the piain coimtry, we found 
ourselves in a warm climate again, wberc tbe country was 
plea^aut, and no snow to be seen ; bot on a sudden turning to 
his left, he approached the mountains auother way : and though 
it ia true the hilla and prucipices looked dreadful, yet be made so 
many tourn» such meandera, and led ua by such winding ways, 
that we insensibly passed the height of tbe mountains witbout 
being mucb incumbered witb the snow ; and, all on a sudden, he 
ßbowed US the plctisaut finnttUl proviuces uf Languedoc and 
Gascony, all greeo and flourishino;, tbough, indeed, at a great 
diätance, and we bad some rougb way to pasa stUl. 

We were a littie uneasy^ however, when we found it snowed 
one whole day and a night so fast» that we could not travel; but 
he bid us be easy ; we should soon he past it all : we found, indeed, 
that we began to descend every day, and to corae more north tban 
before ; and «o, depending upon oui* guide, we went on. 



224 ADVENTÜRES OP 




SECTION XXIX. 

FRIDAY'S ENCOUNTER WITH A BEAR. — ROBINSON AND HIS FELLOW 
TRAVELLERS ATTACKED BY A FLOCK OF WOLVES. — ^HIS ARRANGE- 
MENT OF HIS AFFAIRS, AND MARRIAGE AFTER HIS RETÜRN TG 
ENGLAND. 

It was about two hours before night, when our guide being some- 
thing before us, and not just in sight, out rusbed three moustrous 
wolves, and after them a bear, out of a hollow way, adjoining to 
a thick wood ; two of the wolves made at the guide, and had he 
been far before us, he would have been devoured before we could 
have helped him ; one of them fastened upon his horse, and the 
other attacked the man with that violence, that he had not time, 
or presence of mind enough, to draw his pistol, but hallooed and 
cried out to us most lustily. My man Friday being next me, I 
bade him ride up, and see what was the matter. As soon as 
Friday came in sight of the man, he hallooed out as loud as the 
other, O master ! O master ! but, like a bold fellow, rode directly 
up to the poor man, and with his pistol shot the wolf, that at- 
tacked him, in the head. 

It was happy for the poor man that it was my man Friday; 
for he having been used to such creatures in his country, he had 
no fear respecting them, but went close up to him and shot him, 
as above; whereas any other of us would have fired at a greater 
distance, and have perhaps either missed the wolf, or endangered 
shooting the man. 

But it was euough to have terrified a bolder man than I ; and, 



ÄOBINBON CRUBOE. 



225 



indeed» it nlarmed all our cotnpMiy, wlien, witli tlie noise of 
Fridaj's pUtol, we hcard on both sides the moat dismal liowling 
of wülves ; and the noise, redoubled by the echo of tlie mountains, 
appeared to us as if there bad been a prodigious number of them; 
und, perliaps, there was not siicb a few aa that we bad no cause 
t)f appreheiisions: liowever, aa Fridsiy liad killed tliis wolf, the 
otber that hud fastened upon the hfirsc left him immediately, and 
lied, without domcj hini any damagCj haviijg; happiJy fastened 
xipon bis head, wLere the bosses of the britlle had stuck in hia 
teeth. Bot the man waa most btirt ; for tbc raf^ng creatiire had 
bit bim twicft, ouce m the arm, and tbe olber thtie a little abovc 
his knee ; and thoug;h he had inade some defenee, be was just as 
it were tiimblins; down by tbe disorder of his horse, when Fiiday 
came up and shot tbe wolf* 

It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's pistol we all 
inendcd our paco, and rode up as fast as the way, which was very 
difficukj woiild give us leave, to sce wbat was the matter. As 
soon as we came clear of the trees, whkh bUnded us beforOj we 
saw clearly what had been tbe casc* and how Friday had dii?en- 
giLgred the poor guide» though we did not presently discern what 
kind of crcatiire it was he had killed. 

But never was a fiöjht manajjed so hardily» and in such a sur- 
prising manner, as that which followed, betwcen Friday and thi? 
Dcar, wliieb gave ns all, thon^h at first we were surprised and 
afraid for bim, the greatest diversiou irna'fiinable, As the bear 
is a beavy, clnmsy creature^ and does not s^allop as the wolf dnes, 
who is swift and lischt, so he has two particular q\ialities, which 
generali/ are thu rule of bis actione : first, as to men, who are 
not his proper prey (he does not usually attempt them, excL-pt 
they first attack Mm, iinless he he excessively lumgry, which it 
is probable miglit now be the ease, the grround being covcred 
with suow), if you do not meddle with him, he will not meddJe 
with you: but tben you must take care to be very civil to him, 
9Uid give him tbe road, for be is a xery nice g^entlemaii; he will 
not go a Step out of his way for a prince; nay, if you are really 
afraid, your best way is to look anolher way, and keep going 
ou; for sometimes if you stop^ and stand still^ and look stead- 
fastly at lunij he takes it for an aifroiit; but if you throw or toss 
anything at bim, and it hits bim, tbough it were but a bit ot 
stick HS big as your finger^ he thinks himself abuscd, and sets oll 
otber business aside to pursue bis revcnge, and will have satis- 
faction in point of honour; — this is bis lirst quality: the next is, 
if he be once alfronted, be will never leave you, night nor day» 
tili he has bis revenge, but follows» at a good round rate, tili be 
9vertÄkcs you, 

My man Friday bad delivered out gnide, and when we came 
up to him. be was belping him off' from his liorse, for the man 
was both hurt and frighteued, when, on a sudden, we cspied the 



226 ADVENTURES OF 

bear come out of the wood, and a vast, monstrous one it was, 
the biggest by far that ever I saw. We were all a little snrprised 
when we saw him ; but when Friday saw him, it was easy to see 
joy and courage in tbe fellow's countenance; O, O, O ! says Friday, 
tbree times, pointing to him; O master! you give me te leave. 
me shakee te band with bim ; me makee you good laugb. 

I was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased : You fool, 
says I, be will eat you up. — Eatee me up! eatee me up! says 
Friday, twice over again; me eatee bim up; me makee you good 
laugb : you all stay bere, me sbow you good laugb. So down be 
sits, and gets off bis boots in a moment, and puts on a pair of 
pumps (as we call tbe flat sboes tbey wear, and wbicb be bad in 
bis pocket), gives my otber servant bis borse, and witb bis gun 
away be flew, swifk like tbe wind. 

The bear was Walking softly on, and offered to meddle witb 
nobody, tili Friday Coming pretty near, calls to bim, as if tbe 
bear could understand bim, Hark ye, hark ye, says Friday, me 
speakee witb you. We foUowed atadistance; for now being 
come down on tbe Gascony side of tbe mountains, we were en- 
tered a vast great forest, where tbe country was piain and pretty 
open, thougb it bad many trees in it scattered bere and tbere. 
Friday, who bad, as we say, tbe beels of tbe bear, came up witb 
bim quickly, and takes up a great stone and tbrows it at bim, 
and bit bim just on tbe bead, but did bim no more barm tban if 
be bad thrown it against a wall; but it answered Friday 's end, 
for tbe rogue was so void of fear that he did it purely to make 
tbe bear foUow bim, and sbow us some laugb as he called it. As 
soon as the bear feit the blow, and saw him, be turns about, and 
comes after him, taking devilish long strides, and shuffling on at 
a stränge rate, such as would have put a borse to a middling 
gallop ; away runs Friday, and takes bis course as if he run towards 
US for belp ; so we all resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and 
deliver my man; thougb I was angry at him beartily for bring- 
ing the bear back upon us, when he was going about bis own 
business another way; and especially I was angry that he bad 
turned tbe bear upon us, and then run away ; and I called out, 
You dog, is this your making us laugb? Come away, and take 
your borse, that we may shoot the creature. He heard me, and 
cried out, No shoot, no shoot; stand still, and you get much 
laugb ; and as the nimble creature ran two feet for the bear's one, 
be turned on a sudden, on one side of us, and seeing a great oak 
tree fit for bis purpose, he beckoned to us to follow; and doub- 
ling bis pace, be gets nimbly up tbe tree, laying bis gun down 
upon the groiind, at about five or six yards from the bottom of 
the tree. Tbe bear soon came to the tree, and we followed at a 
distance : the first thing he did, be stopped at the gun, smelt to 
it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles into the tree, climbing like 
a cat, thougb so monstrous beavy. I was amazed at the folly. 



HOBIKBON CRUSOE. 



227 



as I thouglit it, üf my manj and could not for mj^ life sce anv 
thiiig to laugh at yet, tili seeing the bear get up the txee, we all 
rode near to liim. 

When we ciinie to the tree, tliero was Fridajr got out to the 
etnall end of a lar^e brancti, and the bear got about balf way to 
Mm, As soon aä the bear got out to tbat part where the limb 
of the tree waa wcaker,^ — I la ! says he to us, rvow you see me 
teachee the bear d^ince : so he falls a jumping and shakiog the 
bough, at ivhich the bear began to totter» bat atood still, aad 
begaa to lüok behiiid him, to see how he slicmld get back ; tben, 
indeed, we did laugh heartity. But Frjday bad not done with 
him by a great dealj wlieu seeing him stand still, he calls out to 
bim again» as if he had Bupposed ihe bear could speak English, 
What, you conie no farther? pray you come farther: so he left 
jumping and shaking tlie trf3e; and the bear, just as if he under- 
stood \v}iat he Bald, did come a little farther; then he feil a 
jumping again, and the bear stopped again. We thought now 
was a good time to knock him on the hcadj and called to Friday 
to stand g tili, and we wonld shoot the bear: but he cricd out 
eamestly, O pray! O pray! no shoot, me ahoot by and then; he 
would liave snid by and bv. However, to shorten the story, 
Friday dauccd so much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that we 
had hiughmg enougli, but still eonld not imagine \\hat the fellow 
woidd du : Ibr first vv e thought he dopeiided upon slmking the bear 
off; and we foand the bear was too cunning for that too; for he 
wouUI not go out A\r enough to be tbroun do\\n, but clmgs tast 
with bis great broad clawH and feet, so that we could not imagine 
what wonld be the end of it, and uhat the jest would be at last. 
But Friday pnta us out of doubt quickly : for seeing the bear 
cling fast to the bough, and that he would not be pcrsuadcd to 
come any farther, Well, well, says Friday, you no come farther, 
me go; you no come to me, me come to you : and upon ihia, he 
goes out to the smaller end of the bough, where it would bend 
with hia weight, and gently lets himself down by it, sliding down 
the bough, tili he came near enough to jump doun on hia feet, 
and away he runa to bis gim, takes it up, and Stands still. Well, 
Said I to him, Friday, what wUl you do now? Why don't yoxi 
shoot hirn? — No shoot, says Friday, no yet; me no shoot now, 
me no kill ; me stay, gtve you »me more laugh ; and, iiideed» so 
he did, aa you will see preaently: for when the bear saw hia 
enemy gone, he comes back from the bough where he stood, but 
did it mighty cautiouisly, looking behiiid him every stcp, and 
Coming back ward tili be got into the b(Mly of the trce; then, with 
the same hinder-end forcniostj he came down the tree, grasping il 
with liis claws, and moving one foot at a time, very leisurely. 
At thia Juuctiire, and just before be could set his hind-foot on 
the ground, Fridav stepped up close to him, clappcd tbe muzde 
ofhis piece into tis ear, and shot him dead* Then the rogue 



228 ADVENTURES OF 

tnmed aboat, to see if we did not laugh ; and Tchen he saw we 
were pleased, hj our looks, he falls a laughing himself very loud. 
So we kill bear in my country, says Friday. So you kill them? 
says I : why you have no guns. — No, says he, no gun, but shoot 
great much long arrow. This was a good diversion to us; but 
we were still in a wild place, and our guide very much hurt, and 
what to do we hardly knew : the howling of wolves run much in 
my head; and, indeed, except the noise I once heard on the shore 
Ol Africa, of which I have said something already, I never heard 
any thing that filled me with so much horror. 

These things, and the approach of night, called us ofif, or eise, 
as Friday would have had us, we should certainly have taken 
the skin of this monstrous creature off, which was worth saving; 
but we had near three leagues to go, and our guide hastened us, 
so we left him, and went forward on our journey. 

The ground was still covered with snow, though not so deep 
and dangerous as on the mountains ; and the ravenous creatures, 
as we heard afterwards, were come down into the forest and piain 
country, pressed by hunger, to seek for food, and had done a 
great deal of mischief in the villages, where they surprised the 
country people, killed a great many of their sheep and horses, 
and some people too. We had one dangerous place to pass, of 
which our guide told us, if there were more wolves in the coimtry 
we should find them there; and this was a small piain, sur- 
rounded with woods on every side, and a long narrow defile, or 
lane, which we were to pass to get through the wood, and then 
we should come to the village where we were to lodge. It was 
within half an hour of sunset when we entered the first wood, 
and a little after sunset when we came into the piain. We met 
with nothing in the first wood, except that, in a little piain within 
the wood, which was not above two furlongs over, we saw five 
great wolves cross the road, füll speed one after another, as if 
they had been in chase of some prey, and had it in view ; they 
took no notice of us, and were gone out of sight in a few moments. 
Upon this our guide, who, by the way, was but a faint-hearted 
feUow, bid us keep in a ready posture, for he believed there were 
more wolves a-coming. We kept our arms ready, and our eyes 
about US ; but we saw no more wolves tili we came through that 
wood, which was near half a league, and entered the piain. As 
soon as we came into the piain, we had occasion enough to look 
about US : the first object we met with was a dead horse, that is 
to say, a poor horse which the wolves had killed, and at least a 
dozen of them at work, we could not say eating of him, but pick- 
ing of his bones rather : for they had eaten up all the flesh before. 
We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast; neither did 
they take much notice of us. Friday would have let fly at them, 
but I would not suffer him by any means ; for I found we were 
like to have more business upon our hands than we were aware 



JIOBINSON CHUSOE, 



229 



of. We were not gonc Half over the pliiin, wlien we began to hear 
the wolves howl in the wood on oxir Jett in a friglitJ'iü nianner* 
and presently after we savv about a himdred coinint^ on directly 
towards iis, all iii a body, and most of tliem in a lUic, as reg^üarly 
as au army drawn np by au experiencod ofTicer. I acarce knew 
in "what maniim* to rtccive tbeni, but foimd to draw ourselves in 
a dose line waa the only way: so we formed in a moment: but 
that we iniglit not liave too much interval» I ordercd that only 
every otht^r man aliuuld (ire, and tbat tbe otbers wbo had not 
fired shoiüd stand ready to g:ive them a sücond voltey immediately, 
if they continued tb advancc lipon ns; and then that tbose who 
iiad fired at tirat sboiüd not pretend to load tbeir juseea again, 
but stand ready every one with & pistol, tbr we were all arraed 
with a fiisee and a pair of pistols eacb man; so we were, by this 
niethod, able to fire six vollcys, half of us at a time. Howevei*, 
at present we had no necessity: ihr npon firino: the first volley, 
the enetny made a füll stopj being terrified as well with the noise 
as with the lire; four of them, being sbot in the head, dropped; 
several otbers wcre wounded, and weut bleeding: olT, as we could 
see by tbe snow. 1 found they stoppcd, bat did not immediately 
retreat^ wbereupon, rem em bering tbat I had been told that the 
fierücst creatures were terrified at tbe voice of a man, I caiised 
all the Company to halloo as loud as we could; and 1 found tbe 
nolion not altogether mistaken; Ibr upon our shout, they began 
to retire, and turn abont. 1 then ordered a secoud voUey to be 
fired in the LT rear, whieh pnt them to the gallo p, and away they 
went to the wood^j, This gavc us leisure to chargc our pieces 
again; and tbat we might lose no time, we kept going; but we 
tad but little uiore tban loadßd our fusees, and put ourselves in 
readiness, when we beard a terriljle noise in the same wood^ on 
our left, only that it was farther onward, tlie same way we were 
to go» 

The niglit was Coming on, and tbe light began to bc dusky, 
whicb made it worse on our side; but tlie noise increasiug. we 
could easily pcrceive that it was the bovvling and yelUng of those 
hellish creatiires ; and on a suddeii we pereeived two or three 
troops of wolvcs, one on our left, one behind us, and one in our 
front, so tbat we scemed to be gurrtnmded with them: however, 
ÄS they did not fall upon us, we kept our way forward* as fast as 
we could make our hor^ses go, w hioh, the way being very rough, 
wa,s only a güod hard trot In this manner we came in view of 
the entrance of the w ood, tbrougb whidi wc were to pass, at the 
farther aide of tbe piain ; but we were greatly surprised« wben^ 
Coming nearer the laue or pass, we aaw a confuscd number of 
wolves Standing just at the entrance, On a sudden, at another 
openlng of a wood, we heard the noise of a gun, and looking 
tliai way out rushed a horse, with a saddle and a bridle on him, 
tlying Uke the wind, and sixteen or seventccn wolves after hii«. 



236 ADVEMTURES OF 

füll speed; indeed, the horse had the lieels of them, but as we 
supposed that he could not hold it at that rate, we doubted not 
but they wonld get up with him at last; no question but they did. 
But nere we had a most horrible sight; for riding up to the 
entrance where the horse came out, we found the carcasses of 
another horse and of two men, devoured by the ravenous crea- 
tures ; and one of the men was no doubt the same whom we heard 
fire the gun, for there lay a gun just by him fired off; but as to 
the man, his head and the upper part of his body were eaten up. 
This filledus with horror, and we knew not what course to take; 
but the creatures resolved us soon, for they»gathered about us 
presently, in hopes of prey; and I verily believe there were three 
hundred of them. It happened very much to our advantage, that 
at the entrance into the wood, but a little way from it, there lay 
some large timber trees, which had been cut down the summer 
before, and I suppose lay there for carriage. I drew my little 
troop in among those trees, and placing ourselves in a line behind 
one long tree, I advised them all to alight, and keeping that tree 
before us for a breastwork, to stand in a triangle or three fronts 
enclosing our horses in the centre. We did so, and it was well 
we did ; for never was a more farious charge than the creatures 
made upon us in this place. They came on with a growling 
kind of noise, and mounted the piece of timber, which, as I sai^ 
was our breastwork, as if they were only rushing upon their 

Erey ; and this fiiry of theirs, it seems, was principally occasioned 
y theu* seeing our horses behind us. I ordered our men to fire 
as before, every other man : and they took their aim so sure, that 
they killed several of the wolves at the first volley ; but there was 
a necessity to keep a continual firing, for they came on like devils, 
those behind pushing on those before. 

When we had fired a second volley of our fusees, we thought 
they stopped a little, and I hoped they would have gone off; but 
it was but a momeut, for others came forward again : so we fired 
two volleys of our pistols; and I believe in these four firings we 
had killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed twice as 
many, yet they came on again. I was loth to spend our shot 
too hastily; so I called my servant, not my man Friday, for he 
was better employed, for, with the greatest dexterity imaginable, 
he had charged my fusee and his own while we were engaged : 
but as I Said, I called my other man, and giving him a hörn of 
powder, I bade him lay a train all along the piece of timber, and 
let it be a large train. He did so ; and had but just time to get 
away, when the wolves came up to it, and some got upon it, when 
I, snapping an uncharged pistol close to the powder, set it on fire : 
those that were upon the timber were scorched with it ; and six 
or seven of them feil or rather jumped in among us, with the 
force and fright of the fire : we dispatched these in an instant, and 
the rest were so frightened with the light, which the night, for 



ROBIKSON CRUSOE. 



231 



it was now very nertr darlv, made more terrible, tliat tliey drew 
back a little; upon vvhicli I ordercd our last pistola to be fircd 
off in one volley^ and after that we gave a shoiit : upon Ibis tbe 

1%'olvea turned tail, aud we sallied immediately upon üear twenty 

liaTOe ones, tbat we fotitid strQg^ling on tbe ffround, and feil a 

tcntting tbein witb our swords, which answcred ourexpectation; 
"br tbe crymg and bowling tliey made was better underatood by 

Itheir fellows ; so tbat tbey all lied aiid left us, 

We bad, iirst and lajst, Icilled about tbreescore of tbera ; and bad 
it beeu daylight, we bad killed many more. Tbe field of battle 
being thus cleared, we made forward ag^ain, for we bad still near 

[a league to go. Webeard tbe ravenouH creaturea bowl and yell 
" ithe woods as we went^ sevpral times^ and sometimes we fkiicied 
re saw some of tbern, bnt tbe anow dazzbng our eyes, we were 
not certain : in about an bour more we came to tbe town wbere 
¥e were to lodj^e, wbieb we found in a terrible fri^btj and all in 
irms ; for, it seems, tbe nigbt hefore, tbe wolves and some bears 
bad broke into tbe village, and put tbetn in aucb terror, tbat tbey 

iwere obllt^ed to keep g;uard nigbt and day, but eapecially in tbe 

fxiijiiit, to preserve their cattle, and, indeed, tbeir people. 

Tbe next morning our guide was so üb and bis liniba swelled 
80 much witb tbe rauMbig^ of bis two woundä^ tbat be could go 
no fiirtber ; ho we were obligt^d to take a uew guide bere, and go 
to Tboulouse, wbere we foiind a warm elimate, a frtutful pleasant 

" Duntry, and no anow, no wolves, nor anytbinrr like tbera ; but 

""Wben we tob! our story at Tboubnise, tbey told us it was notbing 
but wbat wbat was ordinary in tbe great forest at tbe foot of tbe 
mountains, cspecially, wlien tbe snow lay on tbe ground; but 
tbey inquircd raueb wliat kind of n piido we bad got, wbo would 
venture to bring us tbat way in sucb a severe season ; and told 

Lus it was suqjriaing we were not all devoured. Wben we told 
bem bow we placed ourselves, and tbe borscs in tbe middle, tbey 
blamed us excccdingly, and told us it wa:^ fifty to one but we bad 
been all destroyed; for it was tbe sigbt of tbe horsea wbicb made 
tbe Wülvea so furionsj seeiiig tbeir prey : and tbat, at otber 
limes, tbey are really alVatd of a g^un ; Imt bcing cxeessive bun- 
rry» and ragin g on that account, tbe eagcrness to come at tbe 
borsea bad made tbcm scnseiess of danger ; and tbat if we had 

""not, hy tbe coutinned tire, and at last by tbe stratagein of tbe 
train of powder, mäste red tbem, it bad been great odds but that 
we bad been tom to pieces : \> bereas, bad we been content to 
T>ave sat stdl on borseback, and fired as borsemen, tbey would 
not bave taken tbe borses so niucb for tbeir own, wben men were 
on tbeir barks, as otbcrwise ; and witbal tbey told us» tbat, at 
last, if we bad stood altoi^etbcr, and left our borses, tbey would 

^bare been so eager to bave devoTired tbcm, tbat we migbt havc 
eome oiV snfo, especially baving our fire-anns in our bands, and 

^being so many in number, For my part, I was never so sensible 



232 ADVENTURES OF 

of dangerin mylife; for seeing above three hiindred devils come 
roaring and open-moutlied to devour us, and having nothing to 
shelter us, or retreat to, I gave myself over for lost ; and, as it 
was, I beÜeve I shall never care to cross those mountains again : 
I think I would much rather go a thousand leagues by sea, 
though I was sure to meet with a storm once a week. 

I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my passage 
through France, notbing but what other travellers have given an 
account of, with much more advantage than I can. I travelled 
from Tho\üouse to Paris, and without any considerable stay came 
to Calais, and landed safe at Dover, the 14th of January, after 
having a severe cold season to travel in.^ 
' I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had in a litüe 
time all my new discovered estate safe about me ; the bills of 
exchange which I brought with me having been very currently 
paid. 

My principal guide and privy counsellor was my good ancient 
widow ; who, in gratitude for the money I had sent her, thought 
no pains too much, nor care too great, to employ for me ; and 
I tnisted her so entirely with everything, that I was perfectly 
easy as to the security of my eflfects : and, indeed, I was very 
happy from the beginning, and now to the end, in the unspotted 
integrity of this good gentlewoman. 

I now resolved to dispose of my plantation in the Brazils, if I 
could find means. For this purpose, I wrote to my old friend at 
Lisbon, who having oflPered it to the two merchants, the survivors 
of my trustees, who lived in the Brazils, they accepted the ofier, 
and icmitted thirty-three thousand pieces of eight to a corre- 
spondent of theirs at Lisbon, to pay for it. Having signed the 
instrument of sale, and sent it to my old friend, he remitted me 
bills of exchange for thirty-two thousand eight hundred pieces of 
eight for the estate, reserving the payment of a hundred moidores 
a year to himself during bis life, and fifty moidores afterwards to 
his son for life, which I had promised them. 

Though I had sold my estate in the Brazils, yet I could not 
keep the country out of my head ; nor could I resist the strong 
inclination I had to see my island. My true friend, the widow, 
eamestly dissuaded me from it, and so far prevailed with me, that, 
for almost seven years, she prevented my running abroad; during 
which time I took my two nephews, the children of one of my 
brothers, into my care : the eldest having something of his own, 
I bred up as a gentleman, and gave him a settlement of some 
addition to his estate, after my decease, The other I put out to 
a captain of a ship ; and after five years, finding him a sensible, 
bold, enterprising young fellow, I put him into a good ship, and 
sent him to sea : and this young fellow afterwards drew me in, 
old as I was, to further adventures myself. 

In the mean time, I in part settled myself here ; for, first of all. 



EOßlNSON CRUSOE. 



233 



1 married, and tliat not eitlier to my disadvantage or dissatisfac- 
tion, and had three children, two sons and one daughter j but my 
wife dvLDg, and my nephew coming homewith good auccess fi-om 
a voyage to Spain, my inclination to go abroad, and biü impor- 
tuiiity prevailed, and engaged me to go in hia sbip aa a private 
trader to tlie East Indies: this was in tbe year 1694. 

But tbese things, with some very surprising incidenta in some 
ncvv advcntnre.s of my ovra, for ten yeara morc, I ahall give a 
further account of. 

That horaely proverb used on so xnany occasions in England, 
viz. '*Tbat wliat is bred in the bone uill not go out of tbe flesh,'* 
was never raore verified than in the story ni' my life, Any one 
would think that, aftcr tbirty-five ycars' aiüietion, and a variety 
of unbappy circumstances, wliicb few meii, if any» ever went 
through before, and after near seven yeara of peacc and eujoy- 
ment in tbe fulneas of all things, grown old, and when, if ever, it 
migbt be all^wed me to bave bad experience of every state of 
midclle life» and to know wbich was raoBt adapted to make a mau 
corapletely bappy ; I say^ fdler all tliis, any one would liave 
thought that tbe native propeuüily to rambliiig, which I gave an 
account of in my fiist settina; out in tbe world to liave been so 
predominant in my thougbts, slioakl be vvorn out, tbe vohitile 
part be fuUy evacuated^ or at ]east Condensed, and I migbt, at 
sixty-one years of age, bave been alittle inelined to Btay at home| 
and bave done venluring life and fortnnc any more. 

Nay, further, the common motive of foreign adventures was 
taken away in me ; foi- [ Inid no fortune to make ; I bad notbing 
to seek : if I bad gained ten thousand poundü, I bad been no 
richer ; for 1 had alrendy suflicieut Ibr mc, and for thoae I had to 
leAve it to ; and that I bad was visibly increasing; for bavi ng no 
great faniily, I could not spend tlie iucome of what I bad, unless 
I would äet up tbr an cspensive vray of liviug, such as a great 
faraily» servnntü, equipagc, gaicty, and ihe like^ whieh were 
tbings I had no notion of^ or incbnation to; so that I bad nothing 
tiideed to do but to sit stiU, and fully enjoy what I had got, and 
see it increase daily upon my bands. Yet all tbesc things bad no 
eSect upon nie, or at least not enongh to resist the strong incli- 
nation 1 bad to go abroad again» wlnch liung about ine like a 
chronieal dlstemper. In particular, the desire of seeing my new 
plan tat ion in the Island, and the colony I left thcrc, ran in my 
bead conlinually. I dreamcd of it all night, and my iniagination 
ran upon it all day ; it was uppermost in all my thoughts ; and 
ray fancy workod so steadily and ütrongly upon it, that 1 talked 
of it in my sleep ; in aburtj nothiug eoufd rcmove it out of my 
mind : it cven broke so violently into all my discourses, tbat it 
made my conversation tiresome, fori could talk of nothing eise: 
all my dlscourse ran into it, even to Lmpertinence j and I bäw it 
Iq myB4l£ 



ADVENTURES OF 




SECTION XXX. 



HE IS SEIZED WITH A DESIRE TO REVISIT HIS ISLAND — KLOSES 
HIS WIFE— IS TEMPTED TO GO TO SEA AGAIN — TAKES OÜT A 
CARGO FOR HIS COLONY. 

I HAVE often heard persons of good judgment say, that all the 
stir people make in the world about ghosts and apparitions is 
owing to the strength of Imagination, and the powerful Operation 
of fancy in their minds ; that there is no such thing as a spirit 
appearing, or a ghost Walking, and the like : that people's poring 
affectionately upon the past conversation of their deöeased 
friends, so realises it to them, that they are capable of fancying, 
upon some extraordinary circumstances, that they see them, 
talk to them, and are answered by them, when, in truth, there is 
nothLQg but shadow and vapour in the thing, and they really 
know nothing of the matter. 

For my part, I know not to this hour whether there are any 
such things as real apparitions, spectres, or Walking of people 
after they are dead : or whether there is anything in the stores 
they teil us ofthat kind, more than the product of vapours, sick 
minds, and wandering fancies : but this I know, that my imagi- 
nation worked up to such a height, and brought me into such 
excess of vapours, or what eise I may call it, that I actually 
supposed myself often upon the spot, at my old Castle, behind 
the trees ; saw my old Spaniard, Friday's father, and the repro- 
bate sailors I left upon the Island ; nay, I fancied I talked with 
them, and looked at them steadily, though I was broad awake, 
as at persons just before me : and this I did tili I often frightened 



B0BEN80N CRUSOE. 



235 



myself witli the images my faiicy represcated to me. One üme^ 
in ray slecp^ I had the villany of the three pirato siiilora so lively 
related to me by the first Spaniard and Kriday's fatlier, that i't 
was surprlsinaj : tliey told me how they barbarously attempted 
to murder all the Spftiiiards, and that they set fire to the pro- 
visions they had luid up, oa purpose to distress and starve them; 
things that I had never heard cjf, and that indeed were neverall 
of them true in fact ; hat it was so warm in my ima^nation, and 
so realised to me, that, to the hoiir I saw them, I conld not be 
perauaded hut that it was, or would bc, trne: alsti how I resejited 
It^ when the Spaniaird complained to me ; and how I brouo:ht 
them to jnstice, tried thcra before me, and ordered them all three 
to ha hauged. What there was reaEy in this shall he seen in its 
place : tbr however I came to form sncM thinirs in my drcam, 
and what secret converse of spirits injected it, yet there was, I say, 
much of it tnie, I own, that thi« dream had nothing in it Mterally 
and speciflcally trne j hut the ^eneral part was so true, the base 
villanons hehaviour of these three hardencd rogues was stich^ 
and hat! bcen so mnch worse than all I can describe, that the 
dream had too mnch aimilitude of the fact ; and as I wonld after- 
wards have puniühed tliem »everely, so, if I had hanged them 
all, I had beeii much in the riecht, and even ahoiild have been jus- 
tified both hy the laws of God and man* But to return to my 
BtOTj, In Um kind of temper I lived some years; I had no en- 
joymcnt of my life, no pleasant hom's, no a^eeable diversion» 
Dut what had something or other of this in it ; so that my wife» 
who saw my mind ifhoUy bent upon it, told me very seriously 
one night, that she believed there was some secret powerful 
impulse of Providence upon me, which had determined me to go 
thither again ; and that she foutid nothing hindered my going, 
hut my being engaged to a wife and children» She told me, that 
it was tnie she coiild not think of partin g with me ; but as she 
was assuredj that if she was dead it would be the first thing I 
would do, so, as it seemed to her that the thing was determined 
above, she would not be the only tibstruction ; for, if I thought 

fit, and Tcsolved to go Here she found me very intent upon 

her words, and that 1 looked very earnestly at her, so that it a 

llittle disordered her, and she stopped. I asked her, why she did 

[not go on, and say out what she was going to say jf But I per- 

I ceived that her heart was too füll, and some tears stood in her 

! evC8, Speak out, my dear, said I ; are you willing I shoidd go? 

jlo, saya she, very affectionately, 1 am far from willing ; but if 

you are resolved to p), says she. and ratber than I would be the 

only hinderance, I will go with you i for though 1 thtnk it a most 

L preposterous thing for one of your yeara, and in your condition» 

Ijret, if it must be, said she, again weeping, I would not leave 

[you ; for if it be of Hc^ven, you must do it ; there is no resistiug 

It : and if Heaveu make it your duty to go, he wül also make it 

R 



236 ADYENTURES OF 

mine to go with jou, or oüierwise dispose of me, that I may not 
obstruct it. 

This affectionate behaviour of my wife's brought me a litüe out 
of the vapours, and I began to consider what I was doing : I 
corrected my wandering fancv, and began to argue with myself 
sedately, wnat business I had, after threescore years, and after 
sudi a life of tedious sufferings and disasters, and dosed in so 
happy and easy a manner ; I say, what business bad I to rash 
into new hazards, and put myself upon adventures fit only for 
youth and povertjr to run into ? 

With those thoughts I considered my new engagement ; that I 
had a wife, one child born, and my wife then great with child of 
another ; that I had all the world could give me, and had no need 
to seek hazard for gaiu; that I was decUnin^ in years, and ought 
to think rather of leaving what I had gained, than of seeking to 
increase it ; Üiat as to what my wife had said of its being an im- 
pulse firom Heaven, and that it should be my duty to go, I had 
no notion of that: so, after many of these cogitations, I struggled 
with the power of my imagination, reasoned myself out of it, as 
I believe people may always do in like cases if thev will : and, 
in a Word, I conqu^red it ; composed myself with such ai^ments 
as occurred to my thoughts, and which my present condition 
ftimished me plentifully with ; and particularly, as the most 
effectual method, I resolved to divert myself with other things, 
and to engage in some business that might effectually tie me up 
firom any more excursions of this kind ; for I found that thing 
retum upon me chiefly when I was idle, and had nothing to do, 
nor anything of moment immediately before me. To this purpose 
I bought a fittle farm in the county of Bedford, and resolved to 
remove myself thither. I had a little convenient house upon it ; 
and the land about it, I found, was capable of great improvement ; 
and it was many ways suited to my inclination, which delighted 
in cultivating, managing, planting, and improving of land ; and 
particularly, being an inland country, I was removed from con- 
versing among sa£ors, and things relating to the remote parts of 
the World. 

In a Word, I went down to my farm, settled my family, bougnt 
me ploughs, harrows, a cart, waggon, horses, cows, and sheep, 
and setting seriously to work, became, in one half year, a mere 
country gentleman : my thoughts were entirely taken up in 
managing my servants, cultivating the ground, enclosing, plant- 
ing, &c. ; and I lived, as I thought, the most agreeable life that 
nature was capable of directing, or that a man always bred to 
misfortunes was capable of retreating to. 

I farmed upon my own land ; I had no rent to pay, was limited 
by no articles ; I could pull up or cut down as I pleased ; what 
I planted was for myself, and what I improved was for my family ; 
and having thus left off the thoughts of wandering, I had not the 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



237 



leaat discomfort in any part of life as to this world, Now 1 
tbought indeed that I enjoyed the middle State of life wtich my 
fatber* so earnestly retioairnended to me^ and lived a kmd of 
heavenly lue, something like what is described by tbe poet, upoü 
the subject of a coimtry ül'e — 

•• Free froni vicca, free froiti eare, 

Age hüM 00 pain, aud youth uo «nare." 

Bnt^ in tbe mfddle of all this felicity, one blow from nnseen 
ProTidencc unliinged me nt once ; and not only made a breach 
upon me inevitablc and incurable, but fb-ove me, by ita conse- 
queuces» into a deep relapse of the wanderiiig diaposition^ which, 
HS l may say, beüig born in my very blood, soon recovered its 
hold of me, and, like tlie retums of a violent di.itemper, came on 
witb an irresiatible fücce upon me, so tbat notbing coiüd make 
any more impression upon me. This blow was the loss of my 
wiie. It is not my biisincss bere to write an elegy upon my 
wife, give a cbaracter of her partikular virtues, and make my 
coiirt to tbe sex by tbe flattery of a funeral serrann. She was, 
in a few ivords, tbe stay of all my aftairs, tbe centre of all ray 
enterpriaeSj tbe engine tbat, by lier prudence, reduced me to that 
happy compas3 I was in, from tbe aioat extravagant and ruinous 
project tbat fluttered in my bead, aa above, and did more to gnide 
my ramhliag genins than a motber'ä teara, a father's instmctions, 
a friend'3 connsel, or all ray own reasoning powers, could do. I 
was bappy in listening to her tears, and in bcing moved by her 
entreatieä; and to the last degroe desolate and dislocated in 
the World by tbe loss of her.' 

Wbcn she was gone, the world looked awkwardlv round rae. 
I was as much a strauger in it, in my tbougbts, as I was in tbe 
Brazils, wben I first weut on sbore tbcre ; and ag mnch alone^ 
except as to the assistance of servaiits, as 1 was in ray island. I 
knew neitber what to thliik nor what to do* I saw the world 
biisy around me : one part labouring for bread, anotber part 
aqnandering in vilc cxcesses or enapty pleatäure». eqnally mis- 
erable, becauae the end tbev proposed still fled from tbem : for 
the men of pleasure every day surfeited of tbeir vice, and beaped 
up w ork for sorrow and repentance ; and tbe men of labour apent 
their slrengtb in daily strnggbng for bread to maintain tbe vital 
»trength they laboured witli : so living in a diiily circulation oi 
Borrow, living but to work, and working but to live, aa if daily 
bread were the only end of wearisome Me, and & wean^iome life 
tbe only occa^sion of daily bread. ^. 

This put me in mind of the life I lived in my kingdora, the 
ialaud; wbere I auifercd no more covn to grow, because I did 
not want it, and bred no more goats, because l had no more use 
for them; wbere tbe raoney lay in tbe drawer tili it grew mouldy, 
and had acarce the favour to be looked upon in twenty years« 



238 ADVENTÜRES OP 

All these things, had I improved them as I oüght to haye 
done, and as reason and religion had dictated to me, would have 
,taught me to search farther than human enjoyments for a füll 
felidty ; and that there was something which certainly was the 
reason and end of life, superior to all these things, and which 
was either to be possessed, or at least hoped for, on this side the 
grave. 

But my sage counsellor was gone ; I was like a ship without 
a pilot, that could only run afore the wind : my thoughts ran all 
away again into the old aflfair ; my head was quite turned with 
the whunsies of foreign adventures ; and all the pleasant, inno- 
Cent amusements of my farm, my garden, my cattle, and my 
family, which before entirely possessed me, were nothing to me, 
had no relish, and were Uke music to one that has no ear, or 
food to one that has no taste : in a word, I resolved to leave off 
housekeeping, let my farm, and return to London ; and in a few 
months after I did so. 

When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as I was before ; 
I had no relish for the place, no employment in it, nothing to do 
but to saunter about like an idle person, of whom it maybe said 
he is perfectly useless in God's creation, and it is not one far- 
thing's matter to the rest of his kind whether he be dead or 
alive. This also was the thing which, of all circumstances of 
life, was the most my aversion, who had been all my days used 
to an acüve life ; and I woidd often say to myself : A State of 
idleness is the very dregs of life ; and indeed I thought I was 
much more suitably employed when I was twenty-six days 
making me a deal board. 

It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew, 
whom, as I have observed before, I had brought up to the sea, 
and had made him Commander of a ship, was come home from a 
short voyage to Bilboa, being the first he had made. He came 
to me, and told me that some merchants of his acquaintance had 
been proposing to him to go a voyage for them to the East Indies 
and to China, as private traders. — And now, uncle, says he, if 
you will go to sea with me, I will engage to land you upon your 
old habitation in the Island ; for we are to touch at the Brazils. 

Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a future State, and 
of the existence of an invisible world, than the concurrence of 
second causes with the ideas of things which we form in our 
minds, perfectly reserved, and not communicated to any in the 
World. 

My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper of wandering 
was retumed upon me, and I knew nothing of what he had in 
his thouffht to say, when that very morning, before he came to 
me, I had, in a great deal of coni\ision of thought, and revolving 
every part of my circumstances in my mind, come to this reso- 
lution, yiz., that I would go to Lisbon, and consult with my old 



KOBINSON CRUSOIU 

sea-captain ; and so, if it was rational and prackicable, I would go 
and see tlie island again^ and see wliat was becorae of my people 
there. I liad plcased myself with the thougtita of psopliig the 
place, and carrying inhabitants from liCDce, gettlüg a patent for 
the possessiüu, and I knew not wbat ; wlien, in the middle of all 
thb, in comes my nephevir, as I have said, with hiü project of 
earrying me thitber in bis way to the East Indies. 

I pauiied awhile at h\9 words, and, looking steadUy at him, 
What devil, said I, sent yoii on tliis unlucky erratid ? My nepliew 
stared, as if he had been frigbtened, at first; biit perceiving that 
I was not mucli displeased with the proponalT he recovcred bira- 
self. I hope it may not be an imlucky proposal, sir, says he; I 
dare say you would be pleased to see your ncw colony there, 
whcre you once reigned with more felidty than most of your 
brotber-monarcha in the world. 

In a Word, the scheme hit bo exactly with iny temper, that is 
to say, the prejiosses^sion I was und er, and of which 1 bave said 
so much, that 1 told him, in a few words, if he agrccd with the 
merchants I would go mth him : bnt I told him I would not pro- 
mise to go any farther than my own ialand. Why, sir, says he, 
you don't waut to be left tbere at^aiuj I hope? Why, eaid 1^ 
can you not take mc up again on your return ? Hc told me it 
tFoiild not be po.ssible to do so ; that the merchants wouhl never 
ftllow him to come that way with a laden sbip of euch yalue, it 
heilig a montb's sali out ofhu way, and might he tlirec or tbur. 
BesideSySirjif I ahouldmiscsrry, said be, and not retnrn at all, then 
you wunld be just reduced to the coodition yoii were in before. 

This was very rational ] but we both fomid out a reraedy for it j 
which was to carry a framed f^loop on board the sbip, vvliicb bcing 
taken in pieces, and shipped on board the ship, mis;ht by the help 
of some carpcnters, whom we a^reed to carry with us, be set up 
agaln in the Island, and linished, fit to go to sea, in a few days« 

1 was not long resohing; for indeed the importunities of my 
nephew joined so effectually with my inclination, that nothing 
couid oppose me: on the other hand, my wife being dead, I had 
nobody concerning themselvcs so much for me as to perauade me 
to one way or the other, exceptmy ancieat good friend the widow, 
who eamestly atruggled with me to consider my years, my easy 
circumstances, and the needless hazards of a long voyage ; and, 
above all, my young childreu, But it was all to no purpose; — 
I had an irresistihle desire to the voyage; and I told her 1 thought 
there wa^ soniething so uneommon in the impressions I had upon 
my mind for the vovage, that it would be & kind of reßintiog Pro- 
vidence if I sbould attempt to stav at home: after whicb she 
ceased her expostulations, and joined with me, not only in making 
Provision for my voyage, but also in settling my family-atfairs 
for ray abseuce, and providing for the education of my cbildfen. 

In Order to this^ I made my will» and Bcttled the estate / had 



240 ADVEMTURES OF 

in sucli a manner for my children, and placed in such Lands, that 
I was perfectly easy and satisfied they would have justice done 
them, whatever might befall me; and for their education, I left 
it wholly to the widovr^with a sufficient maintenance to herself 
for her care : all which she richly deserved, for no mother could 
have taken more care in their education, or understood it better; 
and as she lived tili I came home, I also lived to thank her for it. 

My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of January 
1694-5 ; and I, with my man Friday, went on board in the Downs 
the 8th ; having, besides that sloop which 1 mentioned above, a very 
considerable cargo of all kinds of necessary things for my colony ; 
which, if I did not find in good condition, I reaolved to leave so. 

First, I carried with me some servants, whom I proposed to 
place there as inhabitants, or at least to set on work there, upon 
my account, while I stayed, and either tor leave them there, or 
carry them forward, as they would appear willing: particularly, 
I carried two carpenters, a smith, and a very handy, ingenious 
fellow, who was a cooper by trade, and was also a general 
mechanic; for he was dexterous at making wheels, and hand-mills 
to grind com, was a good tumer, and a good pot-maker ; he also 
made any thing that was proper to make of earth, or of wood ; 
in a Word, we called him our Jack of all trades. With these I 
carried a tailor, who had offered himself to go a passenger to the 
£ast Indies with my nephew, but afterwards consented to stay 
on our new plantation ; and proved a most necessary, handy fello w 
as could be desired, in many bther businesses besides that of his 
trade : for, as I observed formerly, necessity arms us for all em- 
ployments. 

My cargo, as near as I can recollect, for I had not kept account 
of the particulars, consisted of a sufficient quantity of linen, and 
some English thin stuffs, for clothing the Spaniards that I ex- 
pected to find there; and enough of them, as, by my calculation, 
might comfortably supply them for seven years : if I remember 
right, the materials I carried for clothing them, with gloves, hats, 
shoes, stockings, and all such things as they could want for wear- 
ing, amounted to above two hundred pounds, including some 
beds, bedding, and hpusehold stuff, particularly kitchen Utensils, 
with pots, kettles, pewter, brass, &c. and near a hundred pounds 
more in iron work, nails, tools of every kind, staples, hooks, 
hinges, and ev6ry necessary thing I could think of. 

I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets, and fusees ; 
besides some pistols, a considerable quantity of shot of all sizes, 
three or four tons of lead, and two pieces of brass cannon ; and 
because I knew not what time and what extremities I was pro- 
viding for, I carried a hundred barreis of powder, besides swords, 
cutlasses, and the iron part of some pikes and halberds : so that, 
in Short, we had a large magazine of all sorts of stores : and l 
made my nephew carry two small quarter-deck guns more than hö 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 241 

wanted for Ma sMp, to leave behind if tliere was occasion; that, 
when we came there, we might build a ibrt, and man it against 
all sorts of enemies; and, iodeed, I at first Ihouglit there would 
he need enougli for all, and much more, if we hoped to maintain 
our possesaion of tbe islaud i os shall be seeti in tke course of tbat 
storv. 

I had not such bad luck in tbis voyage as I had been used to 
meet with j and therefore aliaE have tbe Icss occasion to inteirupt 
tbe reader, wio perbapa may be impatient to hear how m alters 
went wtb mj colony : yet aome odd accidents, cross wind», and 
bad weatlier^bappened on this first setting t)iit, whicb made tbe 
voyage longer than I expected it at first: and I^ wbo bad never 
made but une voyage, viz. my first voyage to Guinea, in wbich 
I migbt bc Said to come back again as tbe voyaee was at firat 
designcd, beg&n to tbink tbe same ill fate atteDded me ; and tbat 
I wa3 bom to be never content ed witb being on sbore, and yet 
to be always unfortTinate at sea. 

Contxary winds first pnt us to tbe nortbward, and we were 
obliged to" put in at Galway in Irelaud, wbere we lay wind- 
boutid two-and-twenty days ; bnt we liad tbiis satisfaction witb 

f €be disaster, tbat provisions ivere bere cxceeding cbeap, and in 
tbe utraost plenty; so tbat wbile we lay bere, we never toucbed 
tbe sbip's atoreSj but ratber added to them. riere, also, I took 
in several live bogs, and two cows, wiüi tbeir calves ; wbicb I 
reaolved, if J bad a good passage, to put on sbore in my ialand; 

' "but we found occasion to di«pose dtbemise of tbem. 



242 



ADVENTURES OF 




SECTION XXXI. 

aOBINSON'S SHIP RELIEVES THE CREW OF A FRENCH VESSEL THAI 
HAD.CAÜGHT FIRE. 

We set out on the 5tli of Febtuary from Ireland, and had a very 
fair gale of wind for some days. As I remember, it might be about 
the 20th of February, in the evening late, when the mate, liaving 
the watch, came into the round-house, and told us he saw a flash 
of fire, and heard a gun fired ; and while he was telling us of it, 
a boy came in, and told us the boatswain heard another. This 
made us all run out upon the quarter-deck, where, for a while, 
we heard nothing; but in a few minutes we saw a very great light, 
and found that there was some very terrible fire at a distance : 
immediately we had recourse to our reckonings, in which we all 
agreed that there could be no land that way in which the fire 
showed itself, no, not for five hundred leagues, for it appeared 
at W.N.W. Upon this we concluded it must be some ship oa 
fire at sea; and as, by our hearing the noise of guns just before, 
we concluded that it could not be far oflf, we stood directly 
towards it, and were presently satisfied we should discover it, 
because, the farther we sailed, the greater the light appeared ; 
though, the weather being hazy, we could not perceive anything 
but the light for a while. In about half an hour's sailing, the 
wind being fair for us, though not rauch of it, and the weather 
Clearing up a little, we could plainly discem that it was a great 
ship on fire, in the middle of the sea. 
I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not at 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



243 



all acqiiahitcd witb tLe pcraons cnoraged in it : I prescnth'vecol' 
lected my forme r circiimstances, and in whnt condition I was in, 
wlicn taken tip by the Portu^uese captain ; and how much more 
deplornhle tlie circumstances of tlie poor creatiires beloiigring to 
that ship miist be, if tli^y liad no otbcr slnp in Company ^vith 
tbein* Upon tliis, I immediately ordercd that five guns shoukl 
be fired, one soon iift^r anolher; that, if possible, we mig:ht g^ive 
notice to tliem that there was help for thein at hand, and that 
they mifjht endeavour to save themselves in their boat; for 
though WC could see the Harnes of the ship, yet they, it being 
night, cotdd aee nothing of us. 

We lay by some time upon this, only drivinor as the burning 
ship drove, waitin^far daylight; when, oü a siidden, to oiir ^eat 
teiTor, thou^h we had reason to expect it, tlie ship blew up in 
the air ; and immediately, that h to say, in a fcw rainutcs, all 
the fire was ont^ that is to say, the rest of the ship smik. This 
was a terrible and indeed an afflictino: Big^ht, for the sake of the 
poor men j who, I coiidnded, raost be either all destroyed in 
the abip^ or be in the utmOvSt distress in their boat, in the middle 
of the occan ; which, at present» by reason it was dark^ I could 
not see. However, to direct thcm as well mn l coald, I eaused 
lights to be hung out io all the parts of the ship where we could, 
and which we had lanterns for, and kept üring: giins all the 
night long ; letting thcm knowj by this, that there was a ahip 
not far oü: 

Abont eight o'clock in the monÄig we discovered the ship's 
boats by the hdp of our perspec^tivc glasscs ; found there were 
two of them, both throngcd with people, and deep tn the water, 
We perceived they rowed, the wind being against theni ; that 
they saw our ship, and did their utniost to make ns see them. 

We immediately spread our ancient^ to let thcm know we saw 
tliem^ and hung a wafl out, as a signal for thcm to come on 
board ; and then mndc more sail^ standing directly to thcm, Jn 
little more than half an hour we canie up with thera ; and, in a 
Word, took thcm all in, being no less than sixty-four nien, 
women, and children ; for there were a great many passengers, 

Upon the whole, we found it was a French mercbant-ship of 
three bundred tons, home-bonnd from Quebec, in the river of 
Canada. The mastcr gavc us a long accoiint of the distress of 
bis ship ; bow the fire began in the steerage, by the negÜgence 
of the steersman ; but on bis crying out for belp, was, as every 
body thüugbt, eudrely put out ; but they soon found that some 
sparks of the first fire had gottcn into some part of the ship so 
diiiicult to come at, that they coidd not efFectually quench it ; 
and afterwards getting in between the timbersj and within the 
ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into Lhe hold, and mastered all 
the skill and all the application they were able to exert. 

They bad no more to do then, but to gct into their boats, 



244 ADVENTUEES OF 

which, to their great comfort, were pretty large; being tlieir 
long-boat, and a great shallop, besides a small skif^ whkb waa- 
of no great service to them, other than to get some firesh water 
and provisions into her, after they had secured their lives from 
the nre. They bad, indeed, small hope of their Uves by getting 
into these boats, at that distance from any land ; only, as they 
Said well, that they were escaped from the fire, and a possibility 
that some ship might happen to be at sea, and might take them 
in. They had sails, oars, and a compass ; and were preparing 
to make the best of their way back to Newfoundland, the wind 
blowing pretty fair, for it blew an easy gale at S. E. by E. They 
had as much provision and water as, with sparing it so as to be 
next door to starving, might support them about twelve days ; 
in which, if they had no bad weather, and no contrary winds, 
the captain said he hoped he might get to the Banks of New- 
foundland, and might perhaps take some fish, to sustain them 
tili they might go on shore. But there were so many chances 
against them in all these cases, such as storms, to overset and 
founder them ; rains and cold, to benumb and perish their limbs; 
contrary winds, to keep them out and starke them ; that it must 
have been next to miraculous if they had escaped. 

In the midst of their constemation, every one being hopeless 
and ready to despair, the captain, with tears in bis eyes, told 
me they were on a sudden surprised with the joy of hearing a 
gun fire, and after that four more ; these were the üve guns 
which I caused to be fired atSirst seeing the light. This revived 
their hearts, and gave them the notice, which, as above, I desired 
it should, viz. that there was a ship at band for their help. It was 
upon the hearing of these guns that they took down their masts 
and sails : the sound Coming from the windward, they resolved 
to lie by tili morning. Some time after this, hearing no more 
guns, they fired three muskets, one a considerable whüe aller 
another ; but these, +he wind being contrary, we never heard. 

Some time after that again, they were still more agreeably 
surprised with seeing our lights, and hearing the guns which, as 
I have said, I caused to be fired all the rest of the night : this 
set them to work with their oars, to keep their boats ahead, at 
least, that we might the sooner come up with them; and, at last, 
to their inexpressible joy, they found we saw them. 

It is impossible for me to express the several gestures, the 
Strange ecstasies, the variety of postures, which these poor 
delivered people ran into, to express the joy of their souls at so 
unexpected a deliverance. Grief and fear are easily described ; 
sighs, tears, groans, and a very few motions of the head and 
hands, make up the sum of its variety ; but an excess of joy, a 
surprise of joy, has a thousand extravagances in it : there were 
some in tears ; some raging and tearing themselves, as if they 
had been' in the greatest agonies of sorrow ; some stark raving. 



EOEINBON CRt7SO£. 



245 



and downriglit lunatic ; some ran aboiit tlie ship stamping with 
their feet, uthers wringing their hanJs; some were dancing-, 
Borae singingj some laugliitig, more ciTingj ; many quite dumb, 
not able to speak a word; otbers sick aiid vomitiiig : several 
swooiiing^ and ready to faint ; and a few were crossiug them- 
selves, and g^viiig God tbanks. 

1 would not vvrong tbera neitlier j tbere might be many tbat 
werß tliankful afterwardä, but tbe passion was too atrong for 
tbem at first, and they were not able to master it : tbey were 
thrown into ecstasies, and a kiiid of frenzy ; and it was bat a 
very few that were composed and scrious in their joy. 

PerhapH, also, the case may have some addition to it frora the 
particnlar eircumstance of tbat nation tbey bclonged to ; I mean 
the Frencb, whose temper is allovved to be more volatile, raore 
passionate^ and raore spriglitly, and their spirits more fluid, than 
in othcr nations. I am not philuBopher enough to determine the 
cauHe 't but nothing I had ever seen before came up to it. The 
ecstasieg poor Friday, my trusty savage, was in, when he found 
Ms father in the boat, came the nearest to it ; and tUe enrprise 
of the master and bis two companions, whom I delhered iroin 
the villaiua tbat set them on shore in tbe island, came a litüe 
way tovvards it ; but nothing was to compare to tLie, either tbat 
I saw in Fridayi or any where eise in ray lite* 

It 13 forther observable, tbat these extravagancea did not 
show themselves, in that diffcrent manner I bave mentioned, in 
difierent persons only ; bnt all the variety would appear, in a 
Short successiim of momentSj in one and tbe same persou. A 
man that we saw this minnte dumb, and aa it were stupid and 
confounded, would tbe next minnte be dancing and hallooing 
likc an antie; and the nextraoment be tearing his hair, or pulling 
hia clotbes to pieces, and ataraping them nnder his feet» like a 
madman ; in a few monients after that, we would bave him all 
in tears, then sick, swooning, and, had not immediate hclp been 
had, he would in a few moments have been dead ; and thus it 
waa, not wäth one or two, orXen or twenty, but with tbe greatest 
part of them : and if I remember rigbt, our aurgeon was obüged 
to let blood of about ihirty of them. 

There were two priestsamong them, one an old man, and the 
otber A young man; and tbat which was strängest was, the 
oldest man was the worst, As soon as he set his Ibot on board 
onr ship, and saw himself safe, be dropped down stone-dead, to 
all appearance ; not tbe least sign of life conld be perceived in 
himr our surgeon immediately applied proper remedies to re- 
cover him, and waa the only man in tbe sbip tbat believcd he 
was not dead, At length he opened a vein in his arm, having 
first chafed and rubbed the part, so as to warm it aa much &s 
possihle : upon tbis blood, which only dropped at first, tlowing 
ireely, in thrce mhmtes after the man opened his eyes ; and a 



246 ADVENTÜEES OP 

(^Harter of an hour after that he spoke, grew better, and in a 
iittle time quite well. After the blood was stopped, he walked 
about ; told us he was perfectly well ; took a dram of cordial 
which the surgeon gave him, and was what we called come to 
himself. About a quarter of an hour after this, they came run- 
ning into the cabin to the surgeon, who was bleeding a French 
woman that had fainted, and told him the priest was gone stark 
mad. It seems he had begun to revolve the change of his cir- 
cumstances in his mind, and again this put him into an ecstasy 
of joy ; his spirits whirled about faster than the vessels could 
convey them, the blood grew hot and feverish, and the man was 
as fit for Bedlam as any creature that ever was in it : the surgeon 
would not bleed him again in that condition, but gave him 
something to doze and put him to sleep, which, after some time, 
operated upon him, and he awoke next moming perfectly com- 
posed and well. * 

l'Tie younger priest behaved with great command of his 
passions, and was really an example of a serious, well govemed 
mind : at his first Coming on board the ship, he threw himself 
flat on his face, prostrating himself in thankftilness for his de- 
liverance, in which I unhappily and unseasonably disturbed 
him, really thinking he had been in a swoon; but he spoke 
calmly, thanked me, told me he was giving God thanks for his 
deliverance ; begged me to leave him a few moments, and that, 
next to his Maker, he would give me thanks also. 

I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not only left 
him, but kept others from interrupting him also. He continued 
in that posture about three minutes, or Iittle more, after I left 
him ; then came to me, as he had said he would, and, with a 
great deal of seriousness and aifection, but with tears in his 
eyes, thanked me, that had, under God, given him, and so many 
miserable creatures, their lives. I told him I had no room to 
move him to thank God for it, rather than me, for I had seen 
that he had done that already ; but, I added, that it was nothing 
but what reason and humanity dictated to all men ; and that we 
had as much reason as he to give thanks to God, who had 
blessed us so far, as to make us the instruments of his mercy 
to so many of his creatures. 

After this, the young priest applied himself to his country- 
folks ; laboured to compose them ; persuaded, entreated, argued, 
reasoned with them, and did his utmost to keep them within the 
exercise of their reason ; and with some he had success, though 
others were for a time out of all government of themselves. 

I cannot help committing this to writing, as perhaps it may 
be useful to those into whose hands it may fall, for the guiding 
themselves in all the extravagances of their passions ; for if an 
excess of joy can carry men out to such a length beyond the 
reach of their reason, what will not the extravagances of anger. 



ROBINSON OtüSOB. 



247 



rage, and a provoked mind, carry ns to ? And, iudeed, liere I 
aaw reason for keepiiig an exceeding watch over our passions 
of every kind, as well those of joy and Batiafactionj as thoae of 
sorrow and anger, 

We were sometliing disordered, by tliese cxtravog^nces among, 
our new guests, for the iirat day ; but when they had beeii 
retired, lodgiogs provided for tliem as well as our ahip wcmld 
aOow, and they bad «lept bearlily — as most of ibem did, behig 
fatigued and frigbtened — they were qnite another sort of peopiö 
the next day. 

Notliing of good manners, or civil acknowled^ents for the 
kindness sbown tbern, was vvanting ; tbe Freiicb, it is known, 
are naturally apt enoiigh to exceed that way. The captain and 
one of the priests canie to me the next day, and desired to speak 
with me and my nepbcw : tbe Commander began to consult witb 
US what shüidd be doiie \sith them j and first, tbey told us that 
WC bad saved tbeir Uves, ao all they had was little enough for a 
retiirn to us for that kiiidneäs received. Tbe eaptain said they 
had saved somc money^ and some things of valuc, in thcir boats^ 
catched hastily out of the flames, and if we would accept it, tbey 
were ordered to make an ofier of it all to us : they only denired 
to be set ou sborc somewbere iu our way, where, if posaible, 
they raight gßt a pat^sage to France. My ncpbew was for 
accepting tbeir money at tirst word, and to coasider what to do 
with them afterwarda ; but I overruled hhn in that part, for I 
knew what it was to bo set oa sbnre in a stränge comitry : and 
if tbe Portuguese captain that took me up at sea had served me 
so, and took all I had for my deMverance, I must have starved, 
or have been as much a slave at tbe Brazils as 1 had been at 
Barbary, the mere being sold to a Mahometan excepted ; and 
perbapB a Portuguese is not a much better master tban aTurk, 
if not, in somc cases, much worse, 

I therefore told tho French captain that we bad taken them up 
in tbeir distress, it was ti'ue, but tbat it was our duty to do so» 
as we were fellow-creatures ; and we would desire to be so deli- 
vered, if we were in tbe like, or any other extrcmity ; that we had 
done üotbing tbr them but wbat we believed they wouhl have 
done for us, if we had been in their case, and they in ours ; but 
that we took them up to save them, not to phinder them; and 
it would he a most barbarous thing to take that little ft-om them 
whicb tbey had saved out of tbe fire, and then set them on shore 
and leave them ; that tbis would be first to save them from deatb, 
and then kill them ourselves ; save them from drowning, and 
abandon them to starving; and therefore I would not let tbe 
least thing be taken from ibetn, As to setting them on shore, I 
told them, indeed, that was an exceeding difficulty to U8, for that 
the ship was bound to tbe Bast Indies j and though we were 
driven out of our courtse to the westward a very great way, and 



248 



ADTENTURES 09 



perliaps were directed by Heaven on purpose for their deUver- 
ance, }[et it was impossible for us wilfiilly to change our yoyajge 
on their particular account ; nor could my nephew, the captaio, 
answer it to the fireighters, with whom he was under charter- 
party to pursne his voyage by the way of Brazil: and all I knew 
we could do for them, was to put ourselves in the way of meeting 
with other ships homeward bound firom the West Indies, and get 
them a passage, if possible, to England or France. 

The nrst part of the proposal was so generous and Mnd, they 
could not but be very thankfiil for it ; but they were in a very 
ereat constemation, especially the passengers, at the notion of 
being carried away to titie £ast Indies : they then entreated me, 
that seeing I was driven so far to the westward before I met with 
them, I would at least keep on the same course to the Banks of 
Newfoundland, where it was probable I might meet with some 
ship or sloop that they might hire to carry them back to Canada, 
from whence they came. 

I thought this was but a reasonable req^est on their part, and 
therefore I inclined to agree to it ; for, indeed, I considered, that 
to carrjr this whole Company to the East Indies, would not only 
be an mtolerable severity upon the poor people, but would bie 
ruining our whole voyage, by devourinff all our provisions ; so I 
thought it no breach of charter-party, but what an unforeseen 
accident made absolutelv necessary to us, and in which no one 
could say we were to blame ; for the laws of God and nature 
would have forbid that we should refuse to take up two boats' 
füll of people in such a distressed condition ; and the nature of 
the thing, as well respecting ourselves as the poor people, obliged 
US to set them on shore somewhere or other for their deliver- 
ance : so I consented that we would carry them to Newfound- 
land, if wind and weather would permit ; and if not, that I would 
carry them to Martinico, in the West Indies. 




5^^ 



BOÖINSON CRUSOE. 



249 



- V, 



SECTION XXXII. 



BELIEVES THE CREW OP A BRISTOL SHIP, WHO ARE STARVING— 
ARRTVES AT HIS ISLAND. 

The wind contintied fresh easterlj^^j but the weither pretty gooc! , 
and aa tbewinds had continned m the poiDta betweeu N.E* and 
S*E. a long time, we misned several opportnnlties of sending 
thero to FraDce j for we met several sbipa bound to Europe, 
whereof twD were Frcnch, from St, ChrLstoplaer's ; but tbey had 
been so long beating np agamst the wind, that tbey durst take 
in no passcngers, for fear of wantiiig provisiüiis für tlie voyage, 
as well for themselves as for those ihey should take m ; so we 
were obliged to g^o on. It was about a week after tlim tb&t we 
jnade tbe Banks of Newfoundlaiid; wbere^ to sborten my story, 
we put all our Frencb people oii board a bark, wbicTa they bired 
at sea tbere^ to put them on Hbore, and afterwards to carry tbem 
to France, if they could get provisions to victunl themselves witb. 
Wben I say all tbe Frencb went on sbore, I should remember, 
tHat tbe youna; priest I spoke of, hearing we were Vjouiid to the 
K^Bast Indien^ desired to go tbe voyage witb us, and to be sei on 
äiore on tbe coast of Cororaandel ; wbich I readily agreed to, 
br I wonderfully üked the man, and had very good reason, aa 
fiU appear afterwards : also ibur of the scamen eutered them 
selres on our ship, and proved very uscful fellows. 

From hcnce we directed our course to the West Indies, steering 
Äway S, and S, by E. for about twentydays togethcr, aometiraca 
Ettle or öo wind at all ; when we met with another subjcct for 
am humaoity to work upon, almost as deplorable as tbnt belbre. 



250 ADVENTUEES OF 

It was in the latitude of twenty-seven degrees five minntes 
north, on tbe 19th day of March, 1694-5, when we spied a sail, 
our course S.E. and by S. : we soon perceived it was a large 
yessel, and that sbe bore up to us, but could not at first know 
wbat to make of her, tili, after Coming a little nearer, we found 
sbe bad lost ber main topmast, foremast, and bowsprit; and 
presently sbe fired a gun, as a signal of distress : tbe weatber 
was pretty good, wind at N.N.W., a firesb gale, and we soon came 
to speak with ber. 

We found ber a sbip of Bristol, bound bome from Barbadoes, 
but bad been blown out of tbe road at Barbadoes a few days 
before sbe was ready to sail, by a terrible burricane, wbile the 
captain and cbief mate were both gone on shore ; so that, besides 
the terror of tbe storm, they were in an indifferent case for good 
artists to bring the sbip bome. They bad been already nine 
weeks at sea, and had met with another terrible storm, after the 
burricane was over, which bad blown them quite out of their 
knowledge to the westward, and in which they lost their masts, as 
above. They told us they expected to have seen the Bahama 
Islands, but were then driven away again to the south-east, by a 
strong gale of wind at N.N.W., the same that blew now: and 
having no sails to work the sbip with but a maincourse, and a 
kind of Square sail upon a jury foremast, which they had set np, 
they could not lie near the wind, but were endeavouring to stand 
away for the Canaries. 

But that which was worst of all was, that they were almost 
ßtarved for want of provisions, besides the fatigues they had 
undergone : their bread and flesh were quite gone ; they had not 
one ounce left in the sbip, and had none for eleven days. Tbe 
only relief they had was, their water was not all spent, and they 
had about half a barrel of flour left ; they had sugar enough ; 
some succades, or sweetmeats, they had at first, but they were 
devoured ; and they had seven casks of rum. 

There were a youth and bis mother, and a maid-servant, on 
board, who were going passengers, and thinking the ship was 
readv to sail, unhappily came on board the evening before the 
burricane began ; and having no provisions of their own left, 
they were in a more deplorable condition than the rest : for the 
seamen, being reduced to such an extreme necessity themselves, 
bad no compassion, we may be sure, for the poor passengers ; 
and they were, indeed, in a condition, that their misery is very 
bard to describe. 

I had perhaps not known this part, if my curiosity had not 
led me (the weatber being fair, and the wind abated) to go on 
board the ship. The second mate, who, upon this occasion, 
commanded the ship, had been on board our ship, and he told 
me, indeed, they had three passengers in the great cabin, that 
were in a deplorable condition ; Nay, says he, I believe they are 



EOBIKSON CRUSOE. 



251 



\ dead, for I have heard notlimg of them for above two dayg ; and 
I was afraid to iiiquire after them, said lie, for I bad uothiDg to 
rebcve tbem irvitli. 

Wc immediately applied ourselves to give them wbat relief we 
cocld spare; and, indeed, I bad so lar overruled things witb my 
l iiephew, thftt I woiüd bave \ictualled them, thougli we bad gone 
nway to Virginia^ or any otber pari of tbe coast of America, to 
' have Bupplied oiirsolves ; but tbere was no necessity for that. 
But now they were in a new daQg:er ; for tbey were afraid of 
eating too much, even of that little we gave them» Tbe mate or 
Commander broiigbt six mea with bim iu bis btmt ; but tbese poor 
I T^i'retches looked like skeletona, and were so wcak, that tbey could 
L liardly ait to their oara» Tbe raate himaelf was very ill, and half- 
) etarved : for he declared he bad reserved nothing from the raen, 
- and wtmt bhare and share alike n itb them in every bit tbey ate. 
I cautioiicd him to eat «pariugly, but set meat before bim im- 
mediately; and he had not eaten thcee montbfuls before he began 
to be sick, and out of order; so he stopped awhile, and our surgeon 
, mixed him up something v\ itb aome broth, which he said would 
L be to bim both food and physic; and after he bad taken it, be 
l grew better* In the mean time, I forgot not the mcn; I ordered 
] Victu^als to be given them; and tbe poor creatures ratber de von red 
[.than ate itt they were so ©xceeding himgry, that they were in a 
l^ind ravenousj aod bad no commaud of tbemselves; and two of 
I them ate with so much greediness, that they were in dangcr of 
their hves the next morning. 

The sight of thesc neople's distress was very moving to me, and 

brought to mind wliat I bad a terrible pronpect of at my first 

, Coming on shore in my island, where I bad never tbe least mouth- 

f f\A of food, or any prospect of procuring any ; besides the hourly 

apprehensions I bad ol being made tbe food of otber creatures. 

\ Biit all tbe whilc the mate was thus relating to me tbe miserable 

► condition of the ship a Company, I could not put out of my thougbt 

l the story he bad told me of the three poor creatures in the great 

l'c&bin, viz.j tbe mother, her aon, and the maid-servant, whom he 

i had beard notbing of for two or three days,and whom, he scemed 

to confess, they had wholly n cgi c et cd» their o wn extremities being 

1 ßo great: by which I imderstood that they had reaüy giYen them 

»o food at all, and that therefore they must he perished, and be 

all lying dead, pcrhaps, on the fioor or deck of tbe cabin. 

As I therefore kept tbe mate, wh?m we then called captain, on 
board with bis men^ to reireah them, so I also forgot not tbe 
star^Tng crew that were leil on board; but ordered my own bnat 
to go on board the sliip, and, with my mate and twelve men, to 
carry tliem a sack of bread, and four ov Hvc nicces of bcef to boil 
Onr surgeon charged the men to cause tne meat to be boiled 
I while tbey stayed, and to keep guard in the cook-room to pre- 
[ Tont the men taking it to eat raw, or taking it ont of the put 



252 ADVENTÜRES OF 

before it was well boiled, and then to give every man but a yery 
litüe at a time : and by this caution be preserved the men, wbo 
would otherwise bave killed tbemselves witb tbat verj food that 
was given tbem on purpose to save tbeir lives. 

At tbe same time, I ordered tbe mate to go into tbe great 
cabin, and see what condition tbe poor passengers were in; and 
if tbey were alive, to comfort tbem, and give tbem wbat re^esb- 
ment was proper: and tbe surgeon gave bim a large pitcber, 
witb some of tbe prepared brotb wbicb be bad given tbe mate 
tbat was on board, and wbicb be did not question would restore 
tbem gradually. 

I was not satisfied witb tbis; but, as I said above, baving a 
great mind to see tbe scene of misery wbicb I knew tbe sbip itself 
would present me witb, in a more lively manner tban I could bave 
it by report, I took tbe captain of tbe sbip, as we now called bim, 
witb me, and went myself, a Uttle after, in tbeir boat. 

I foond tbe poor men on board almost in a tumult, to get tbe 
victuals out of tbe boiler before it was ready; but my mate 
observed bis Orders, and kept a good guard at tbe cook>room 
door; and tbe man be placed tbere, after using all possible per- 
suasion to bave patience, kept tbem off by force: bowever, be 
caused some biscuit-cakes to be dipped in tbe pot, and softened 
witb tbe liquor of tbe meat, wbicb tbey called brewis, and gave 
tbem every one some, to stay tbeir stomacbs, and told tbem it 
was for tbeir own safety tbat be waa obliged to give tbem but 
little at a time. But it was all in vain ; and bad I not come on 
board, and tbeir own Commander and officers witb me, and witb 
good words, and some threats also of giving tbem no more, I 
believe tbey would bave broken into tbe cook-room by force, 
and torn tbe meat out of tbe fumace ; for words are indeed of 
very small force to a bungry belly : bowever, we pacified tbem, 
and fed tbem gradually and cautiously for tbe first, and tbe next 
time gave tbem more, and at last filled tbeir beilies, and tbe men 
did well enougb. 

But tbe misery of tbe poor passengers in tbe cabin was of 
anotber nature, and far beyond the rest ; for as tbe sbip's com- 

any bad so little for tbemselves, it was but too true tbat tbey 
lad at first kept tbem very low, and at last totally neglected 
tbem ; so tbat for six or seven days it migbt be said tbey bad really 
no food at all, and for several days before very little. Tbe poor 
motber, wbo, as tbe men reported, was a woman of sense and 
good breeding, bad spared all she could so affectionately for ber 
son, tbat at last sbe entirely sunk under it; and wben the mate 
of our sbip went in, sbe sat upon the floor or deck, witb her back 
up against tbe sides, between two cbairs, wbicb were lasbed fast, 
and her bead sunk between her Shoulders, like a corpse, thougb 
not quite dead. My mate said all he could to revive and en- 
courage ber, and witb a spoon put some brotb into her moutb. 



l 



KOBmSON CRUSOE« 



253 



Slie opened her lips^ and lifted up oiie band, biit could not speak; 
yet skc understood wliat lie said, and made signs to Mm» inti- 
raating^ that it was too late for lier, but pointed to her child, aa 
if slie would bave aaid tliey sbould takc caro ofhim, However, 
tliematCj wbo was exccedmgly moved with the sight, endeavoured 
to get some of the broth into her mouthi and, as he said, got two 
or ihree spoonMs down ; though I question whether he could 
be sure of it or not : but it waä too late, and sbe died the same 
night. 

The youth, who was preserved at the price of bis most affec- 
tionate motber's life, was not so far gone : yet be lay in a cabin- 
bed, as one stretched out, with hardly any hie left in hini. He 
lifid a piece of an old glove in Ms moutb, ha^ing eaten up the 
rest of it : however, being young, and ha^g more streugth than 
bis mother, the mate got something down hh throat, and he 
began sensibly to revive; though by givinghiirij some time fifler, 
but two or three apoonfuls extraordinary, he was vcry sich, and 
brought it np again. 

But the next care was the poor maid : sbe lay all along npon 
the deck, hard by her raiatreäa, and just like one that had fallen 
down with an apoplexy, and strui^gled for life. Her limbs were 
distorted ; one of her bandü was dasped round the frame of a 
chair, and sbe griped it so bard, that wo could not easily mako 
her let it go ; her othcr arm lay over her hcadj and her fest lay 
both tog:cther, set fast a^ainst the frarae of the cabin-table : in 
short, she lay jogt like one in the agonies of death^ and yet she 
was alive too. 

The poor creature was not only atarved TFith hunger, and 
terrified with the thouglits of death, but, as the men told uis 
allcrwards, was broken-hearted for her mistress, whom she saw 
dying for txvo or three daya before, and whom she loved most 
tenderly. 

We knew* not what to do w ith this poor girl ; for whcm our 
Burgeon, wbo waa aman of very great knowledge and experience» 
had with great application recovered her aa to life, he had her 
upon his hauds a» to her sensea j Ibr she was little less than dis- 
traeted for a considerable time after, as shall appear presently. 

Wlioevcr shall read tbese memorandnms must be desired to 
consider, that Visits at sea are not like a joumey into the country, 
where sometimes poople atay a weck or a fortnight at a place: 
our business waa to relieve this distressed ship's crew, but not 
lie by for tbera ; and though they were willing to steer the same 
course with us ibr some days, yet we could carry no sail, to keep 
pace with a ship that had no maata : however, as their captain 
beggcd of US to heip bim to set up a main topmaat, and a kind 
of a topmast to his jury fu rem ast, we did, as it were, lie by liim 
for tliree or four days; and then having given him five barreis 
of becf, a barrel of pork, two hogsheads of biscuit-, and a pro- 
portion of pcas, flour, and what other thinga we could a^ar«.\ 



254 ADYENTÜRES OF 

and taking tliree casks of sugar, some rum, and some pieces of 
eigbt from them for satisfaction, we left them; taking on board 
with US, at their own eamest request, the youth and tbe maid, 
and all their goods. 

The young lad was about seventeen years of age ; a pretty, 
well bred, modest, and sensible youth, greatly dejected with tbe 
ioss of h^s mother, and, as it seems, had lost bis father but a few 
months before, at Barbadoes : he begged of the surgeon to speak 
to me to take bim out of the ship : for he said the cruel feUows 
l^d^murdered bis motber: and, indeed, so they had, that is to 
say'passively; for they might have spared a small sustenance 
to the poor helpless widow, that might have preserved her life, 
though it had been but just enough to keep her alive : but banger 
knows no friend, no relation, no justice, no right; and therefore 
is remorseless, and capable of no compassion. 

The surgeon told bim how far we were going, and that it would 
carry bim away from all bis friends, and put him perhaps in as 
bad circumstances almost as those we found him in, that is to 
say, starving in the world. He said it mattered not whitber he 
went, if he was but delivered from the terrible crew that he was 
among ; that the captain (by which he meant me, for he could 
know nothing of my nephew) had saved bis life, and he was sure 
would not hurt him; and as for tbe maid, he was sure, if she 
came to herseif, she would be very thanküil for it, let us carry 
them where we would. Tbe surgeon represented the case so 
affectionately to me, that I yielded, and we took them botb 
on board, with all their goods, except eleven hogsheads of sugar, 
which could not be removed or come at ; and as the youth had 
a bin of lading for them, I made bis Commander sign a writing, 
obliging himself to go, as soon as he came to Bristol, to one 
Mr. Rogers, a merchant there, to whom the youth said be was 
related, and to deliver a letter which I wrote to him, and all the 
goods he had belongingto the deceased widow ; which I suppose 
was not done, for I could never learn that the ship came to 
Bristol, but was, as is most probable, lost at sea ; being in so 
disabled a condition, and so far from any land, that I am of 
opinion the first storm she met with afterwards she might founder 
in the sea; for she was leaky and had damage in her nold, wben 
we met with her. 

I was now in the latitude of nineteen degrees thirty-two 
minutes, and had bitherto a tolerable voyage as to weather, 
though, at first, the winds had been contrary. I shall trouble 
nobody with the little incidents of wind, weather, currents, &c. 
on the rest of our voyage ; but to shorten my story, for the sake 
of what is to foUow, shall observe, that I came to my old habi- 
tation, the island, on the lOth of April, 1695. It was with no small 
difficulty that I found the place; for as I came to it, and went 
from it, before, on the south and east side of the island, as Coming 
from the ]5razils, so now, Coming in between the main and the 



lUSlBINSON CAUBOK, 

xjilandt and liaTing no cbart fbr the coast, oor any landniark, I 
did not know it wbeii I saw it, orknow whether I eaw it or not 

We bcat about s. great while^ and went on sbore on several 
Islands in tbe moutb of the ^reat river Oronoco, but none formv 
purpose ; only thia I kanied by my coasLiug the sbore, that I 
was under one great niistake betöre, viz, that the continent wbich 
1 thoiight I saw from the islaud I lived in, was really no conti- 
nent, bnt a long Island, or rathcr & ridge of Islands, reacbing 
from one to tbe other side of the extended xnouth of thai great 
river; and that the savages who cAme to my itiland were not 
properly tbose wbich we call Cüribbees, but Isländers, and otber 
barbarians of tbe same kind, who inhabiied something nearer to 
our side thaii the reat. 

In sbort, I visited several of these Islands to no pxirpose; some 
I found were inhabited, and some were not : on one of them J 
foond some Spaniardn, and tbougbt thtiy bad lived tbere; but 
apeaking with ihem^ foiuid thcy hatl a sloop lay in a small creek 
hard by, and came tbither to make salt and to cateh some pearl 
musclest if they could ; but that they belonged to the Isle de 
Trinidiidj which lay farther north, in tbe latitiide of ten and 
cleven de^ees. 

Thus coasting from one Island to another, aometimes with the 
ship, Bometinies with tbe Frcnchmen's shallop, uLjt^h we had 
Ibund a couvenient boat, and iherefoie kcpt her with their verv 
good will, at lengtb I aune fnir on the Boutb side of my island, 
Änd presently kncw ihe very countenanco of the place: so I 
brought theship safe to an auchor, broaxiside with tbe little 
creek where mv o!d habitation was. 




^6 ADVENTÜRES OF 




SECTION XXXIII. 

ROBINSON AND FRIDAY GO ASHORE. — ^THE LATTER MEETS WITH 
HIS FATHER.— ACCOUNT OF WHAT PASSED ON THE ISLAND AFTER 
ROBINSON 's QUITTING IT. 

As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday, and asked lüm 
if he knew where he was; he looked about a little, and presentiy 
clapping his hands, cried, O yes, O there, O yes, O there, pointin^ 
to our old habitation, and feil dancing and capering like a mad 
fellow ; and I had mnch ado to keep him from jumping into the 
sea, to swun ashore to the place. 

Well, Friday, says I, do y ou think we shall find any body here 
or no ? and do you think we shall see your father ? The fellow 
stood mute as a stock a good while, but when I named his father, 
the poor affectionate creature looked dejected, and I could see 
the tears run down his face very plentifully. What is the matter, 
Friday ? says I ; are you troubled because you may see your 
father ? No, no, says he, shaking his head, no see him more : 
no, never more see him again. Why so, said I, Friday ? how do 
you know that? O no, O no, says Friday; he long ago die, long 
ago ; he much old man. Well, well, says I, Friday, you don't 
know ; but shall we see any one eise, then? The fellow, it seems, 
had better eyes tban I, and he points to the hill just above my 
old house ; and though we läy half a league ofi^, he cries out, 
We see, we see, yes, yes, we see much man there, and there, and 
there. I looked, but I saw nobody, no, not with a perspective 
glass, which was, I suppose, because I could not hit the place ; 
for the fellow was right, as I found upon inquiry the next day ; 
and there were five or six men all togfether, who stood to look 
at the ship, not knowing what to think of us. 

As soon as- Friday told me he sawpeople, I caused the English 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



257 



ancicnt to be apread, and fired three ^ns, to give tJiem notice 
Tve were friends ; and in about half a quarter of au bour iifter, 
we perceived a smoke arise firoai thu side of tbe creek ; so I 
immediately ordered tbe boat out^ taking Friday with me ; and 
hanging out a white flag, or a flag of tmce, I went directly on 
shore, toking with Die tbe yaung friar I mentioncd, to whom I 
had told tbe story of my bvin^ there, aod tbe maiiuer of it^ and 
every parücular botb of myself and those I k^ft; tbere ; and \\'ho 
was, on that account, extremely desirous to go with me. We 
Ixad bcsidcs about sixteen men well armed, if we bad found any 
new gueata there wbich we did not know of ; but we bad no 
need of weapona. 

Äa we went on ahore lipon tbe tide of flood, near high water, 
we rowed directly into tbe creek ; and the first man I öxed my 
eye lipon was the Spaniard wbose life I had saved, and whom I 
knew hy bis face perfectly well : as to bis habit, 1 sball describe 
it afterwards. 1 ordered nobody to go ou abore at first but my- 
self ^ but there was no keeping Friday in tbe boat, for tbe affec- 
tionate creature had spied bis fatber at a distance, a good way 
o5 the Spaniards, where indeed I saw uotbing of him ; and if 
they had not let him go ashorej he woidd have jumped into tbe 
sea. He was no sooner on shore, but he flew away to bis fatber, 
like an arrow out of a bow. Itwould have made anyman sbed 
tears, in spite of tbe ürmeait resolution, to have seen tbe first 
transports of this poor fellow's joy wben he came to bis fatber; 
höw be embrnced him, kissed him, stroked bis face» took bim up 
in hia arms, set him do^vii upon a tree, and lay down by bim ; 
then stood mid looked at bim^ as any one would iook at a stränge 
pictTire, for a quiirter of an hour together ; tben lay down on the 
groimd, and stroked bis legs^ and kisBed them, and tbeu got up 
again, and stared at him ; one woiüd have tbougbt the fellow 
be^itched* But it would have made a dog laugh tbe next day 
to See bow bis passiou ran out anotbcr way ; in the morning be 
walked aloug the shore, to and again, witb bis fatber several 
bours, always leading bim by tbe band, as if he had been a lady ; 
and every now and then he would come to tbe boat to fetch 
sometbing or otber for him, either a lump of sugar, a drara, a 
biscuit-cake, or sometbing or other that was gooii In tbe after- 
noon bis frolica ran auother way ; for then be would set the old 
man down upon the ground and dance about bim, and make a 
tbousand antic no stures and gesturea ; and all tbe while he did 
tbiiä, be would be talking to him, and telling bim one atory or 
other of bis travels, and of what bad happencd to him abroad, to 
divert him. In short, if the same filial affection was to be found 
in Christians to tbeir parents in our part of the world, one would 
be tempted to say, there would hardiy have been any need of the 
£fcb commandment. 

But tbis iä a digrcssion : I retum to my landing. It would be 



258 ADYENTURES OF 

needless to take notice of all the ceremonies and civilities thnt 
the Spaniards received me with. The first Spaniard, wbo, as I 
Said, I knew very well, was he whose life I had saved :' he came 
towards the boat, attended by one more, carnring a.flag of tcuce 
also : and he not only did not know me at nrst^but he liftd no 
thougbts,^no notiön of its being me that was come,-.till I. spoke 
to him» Senhor, said I, in Fortuguese, do you not- Imöw me? 
At which be spoke not a word, but giving bis musket to ibß man 
that was with him, tbrew bis arms abroad, saying somethbig in 
Spaüisb that I did not perfectly hear, came forward-ajid emfanÜBed 
me ; telling me bß was inexcusable not to know tbat hiee again, 
that he had once seen as if an angel from beayen sent toaave 
bis life : be said ab'undance of very bandsom^ tbings, as a well- 
bred Spaniard always knbws :how;. and tben beckoning to the 
person that attended bim, bade bim go and call out ma oom- 
rades. He tben asked me if I woald walk to my old. habitation, 
wbere he would give me possession of my own bouse again, and 
wbere I shoul4 see they had made bat mean improvements ; so 
I' walked along with bim ; but, alas ! I could no more find the 
^ace again than if I bad never been there ; for they had planted 
so many trees, and placed tbem in such a posture, so thick «nd 
close to one anqtber, and in ten years' time they were grownr so 
big, tbat, in short, the place was inaccessible, except by such 
windings and blind ways as they tbemselves only, who made 
tbem, could find. 

I asked tbem wbat put tbem upon all tbese fortifications : he 
told me I would say there was need enougb of it, wben they had 
given me an account bow they bad passed their time since their 
arriving in the island, especially after they bad the misfortune 
tu find that I was gone. He told me be could not but bave some 
satisfaction in my good fortune, wben be beard that I was gone 
in a good ship, and to my satisfaction ; and tbat be bad often* 
times a strong persuasion tbat, one time or other, he should see 
me again ; but nothing tbat ever befel bim in bis life, be said, 
was so surprising and afflicting to bim at first, as the disappoint- 
ment he was under wben he came back to the island and found I 
was not there. 

As to the three barbarians (so be called tbem) that were left 
behind, and of whom, be said, he bad a long story to teil me, the 
Spaniards all thougbt tbemselves much better among the sa* 
vages, only tbat their number was so small : and, says be, bad 
they been strong enougb, we had been all long ago in purgatory ; 
and with tbat be crossed bimself on the breast. But, sir, says 
be, I hope you wiU not be displeased wben I shall teil you bow, 
forced by necessity, we were obliged, for our own preservation, 
to disarm tbem, and make tbem our subjects, wbo would not be 
content with being moderately our masters, but would be our 
marderers. I answered I was beartily afraid of it wben I left 



260 ADVENTURES OF 

of what afterwards happened, I mean, of an Englisli ship Coming 
on sbore there to fetch me off; and it could not but be a very 
great surprise to them, when tbey came back, not only to find 
that I was gone, but to find tbree strangers left on tbe spot, 
possessed of all that I bad left behind me, wbich would otber- 
wise bave been tbeir own. 

The first thing, however, wbich I inquired into, tbat I migbt 
begin where I left off, was of tbeir own part ; and I desired he 
would give me a particular account of bis voyage back to bis 
countrymen with tbe boat, wben I sent bim to fetch them over. 
He told me there was little variety in tbat part, for nothing 
remarkable happened to them on tbe way, having had very calm 
weather and a smooth sea. As for bis countrymen, it could not 
be doubted, he said, but that tbey were overjoyed to see bim (it 
seems he was tbe principal man among them, the captain of tbe 
vessel tbey bad been shipwrecked in having been dead some 
time) ; tbey were, he said, the more surprised to see bim, because 
tbey knew that he was fallen into the bands of the savages, wbo, 
tbey were satisfied, would devour bim, as tbey did all the rest 
of tbeir prisoners ; that wben he told them the story of bis de- 
liverance, and in what manner be was ^rnished for carrying 
them away, it was like a dream to them, and tbeir astonisbment, 
be said, was somewhat like tbat of Josepb's brethren, wben be 
told them wbo he was, and told them the story of bis exaltation 
in Pharaob's court ; but wben be showed them the arms, the 
powder, the ball, and provisions, tbat he brought them for tbeir 
joumey or voyage, tbey were restored to themselves, took a just 
share of the joy of tbeir deliverance, and immediately prepared 
to come away with bim. 

Tbeir first business was to get canoes : and in this tbey were 
obliged not to stick so much upon tbe honest part of it, but to 
trespass upon tbeir friendly savages, and to borrow two large 
canpes, or periaguas, on pretence of going out a fisbing, or for 
pleasure. In these tbey came away tbe next morning. It seems 
tbey wanted no time to get themselves ready ; for tbey bad no 
baggage, neither clothes nor provisions, nor any thing in the 
World but what tbey had on them, and a few roots to eat, of 
wbich tbey used to make tbeir bread. 

Tbey were in all tbree weeks absent ; and in tbat time, un^ 
luckily for them, I bad the occasion offered for my escape, as 
I mentioned in my otber part, and to get off ,from the island, 
leaving tbree of tbe most impudent, bardened, ungovemed, dis- 
agreeable villains behuid me, that any man could desire to meet 
with ; to the poor Spaniards' great grief and disappointment, 
you may be sure. 

Tbe only just thing the rogues did was, that wben tbe Spa- 
niards came asbore, tbey gave my letter to them, and gave them 
provisions, and otber relief, as I bad ordered them to do ; also 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



261 



Üiey gave them tlie long paper of directions which 1 had Icft 
witn them, coiitaming the particular raethods whicli I took foT 
managing every part of my lil'e there j tlie way liow I baked my 
bread^ bred up tarne goats, and planted my uorn ; how I cured 
niy grapes, made my pots, and^ in a word^ every tliing I did ; all 
tliis being writteu down, tliey gaveto the Spatiiards (two of them 
imderstüod English well enoogh) : nor did tliey refiise to accom- 
modale tlie Spauiards witli any tliing eise, for tbey agrced vcry 
well for some time, Tbey gave them an equal admission into 
the boiiaCj or cave, and they beg:aii to live very sociably ; and the 
head Spaniard, who had seen pretty mnch of my raethods, and 
Friday's father together^ managed all their afifairs : but as for the 
Englishmen, tbey did nothing but ramble abont the Island, shoot 

i parrots, and catch tortoises ; and vvhen they came home at night, 

|- the Spaniards provided iheir suppers for them. 

The Spaniards wotild bave been satistied with this, had the 

. others but let them alone ; whidi, however, they could not find 

i in their hearts to do long, but, like the dog in the manger, they 
irould not eat themselves, neither would they let the others eat, 
The diiferences, neve^rthelesa, were at first bnt trivial, and such 
fkS are not worth relatingi but at last it broke out into open 
war : and it began with all the riideness and msoleuce that can 
be imagined, without reason, \dihout provoeation, contrary to 
naturei and, indeed, to common senae : and though, it 'm true, 
the first relation of it came from the Spaniards themselvesj 
vhom I mar call the accus ers, yet whcn I carae to examine the 
fellows, they could not deny a word of it, 

But before I come to the particulars of tMs part, I must siipply 
a defect in my former relation j and thia was, I foi^ot to set 
do\¥n, among the rcst, that just as we wcre weighing the anchor 
to set sail, there happened a little qnarrel on board of our sliip, 
which I was once alraid would have turned to a second mutiny ; 

F nor was it appeaacd tili the captain, rousiug up bis courage, and 

' taMng US all to hia assistance, parted them by force, and making 
two of the most refractory fellows prisoners, he laid them in 
irons ; aiid as they had been active in the forraer disorders, and 
let fall some ugly, dangerous words, the second time he threat- 
ened to carry them in irons t« England, and have them hanged 
there for mutin v^ and rumiing away tvith the ship. Thisj it 

[ seems, thongh the captain did not intend to do it., frightened 
some other mcn in the ship ; s,ni some of them had put it into 
the heads of the rest that the captain only gave them good 
words for the present, t'ül they «hould come to some Euglish 
port, and that then they should be aU put into gaol, and tried 
for their lives, The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted 
HS with it ; upon which it was deaired that I, who still paased 
for ft great man among them, should go down with the raate, 
and satisfy the men, and teil them that they mi^ht be assured, 



262 ADYENTURES OF 

if they behaved well the rest of the voyage, all they had done 
for the time past should be pardoned. So I went, and after 
passing my honour's word to them, they appeared easy, and the 
more so when I caused the two men that were in irons to be 
released and foi^ven. 

But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night ; 
the wind also faUing calm next moruing, we found that our two 
men who had been laid in irons had stole each of them a musket, 
and some other weapons (what powder or shot they had we 
knew not), and had taken the ship's pinnace, which was not yet 
haled up, and run away with her to their companions in roguery 
on shore. As soon as we found this, I ordered the long-boat on 
shore» with twelve men and the mate, and away they went to 
seek the rogues ; but they could neither find them or any of the 
rest, for they all fled into the woods when they saw the boat 
Coming on shore. The mate was once resolved, in justice to 
their roguery, to have destroyed their plantations, bumed all 
their household-stuff and fumiture, and left them to shift with- 
out it ; but having no Orders, he let it all alone, left every thing 
as he found it, and bringing the pinnace away, came on board 
without them. These two men made their number five ; but the 
other three villains were so much more wicked than they, that 
after they had been two or three days together, they turned the 
two new comers out of doors to shift for themselves, and would 
have nothing to do with them ; nor could they, for a good while, 
be persuaded to give them any food : as for the Spaniards, they 
were not yet come. 

When the Spaniards came first on shore, the business began 
to go forward : the Spaniards would have persuaded the three 
English brutes to have taken in their two countrymen again, 
that, as they said, they might be all one family ; but they would 
not hear of it : so the two poor fellows lived by themselves ; and 
finding nothing but industry and application would make them 
live comfortably, they pitched their tents on the north shore of 
the Island, but a httle more to the west, to be out of danger of 
the savages, who always landed on the east parts of the Island. 

Here they built them two huts, one to lodge in, and the other 
to lay up their magazines and stores in; and the Spaniards 
having given them some com for seed, and especially some of 
the peas which I had left them, they dug, planted, and enclosed, 
after the pattem I had set for tbem all, and began to live pretty 
well. Their first crop of corn was on the ground; and though it 
was but a little bit of land which they had dug up at first, having 
had but a little time, yet it was enough to relieve them, and find 
them with bread and other eatables ; and one of the fellows, 
being the cook's mate of the ship, was very ready at making 
soup, puddings, and such other preparations as the rice and the 
milk, and such little flesh as they got, furnished him to do. 



ROBmsOK CRUSOE. 



263 



.,i/.' 



.•€'}■. 



M^ 



W'^m 



//■.•****^ 



SECnON XXXIV. 



TUE ACCOUNT CONTJNUEO. — QÜARRtXS BfcTWEEN THE ENGLISHMEN, 
— ^A BATTLE DETWEEN TWO PARTIES OF SAVAGKS WMO VISIT TH£ 
ISLAND.— FRESH MUTIKY AMONG THE SETTLEOS, 

They Mcre g;oing on in tlns litlle tliriving posture, ivheo tlie 
thrce uimatnral rog^nes, thcir own couutrymeii too, in mere 
huinour^ nnd to insiilt then% came and buUied them, and tokl 
iliem tlie island was tbeirs^ that tlie g;ovc'rDorj meaning me, had 
given tbetn ibe poäsession of it, and nobody eise bad any right 
to it; and that they should build no liouses upon tbeir gi'oimd, 
unless they would pay reut for iliem. 

The two nicn, thiiikin«^ they wcre jestiii^ at first, asked them 
to come in and sit down, and see vvh.at fine nouaes they wcretbat 
ih^y bad buUt, and to teil them what rent they demanded; and 
cme of thein merrily said, if the)' were the g:round-landlords, he 
hoped, )f they built tenements upon their land, and made im- 
provements, they would, aceording to the custom of landlords, 
grant a long: leasc j and dcsired they wciuld get a acrivcner to 
draw the writinga. One of tbc tbree, cnrsing and riig;ing, told 
them they should see they were not in jest ; and going to a little 

Slace at a distance, where the honest nien had made a fire to 
res8 tbeir victuals, hc takcs a firebrand, and claps it to the out- 
Ride of their hut, and very fairly &et rt on fire; andit would have 
bcen burned all down in a few minutes, if onc of the two bad not 



264 ADVENTURES OF 

run to the fellow, thrust liiin away,' and trod ihe fire out with 
his feet, and that not withont some difficulty too. 

The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's thrusting 
him away, that he returned upon him, with a pole he had in his 
hand, and had not the man avoided the blow very nimbly, and 
run into the hut, he had ended his days at once. His comrade, 
seeing the danger they were both in, ran in after him, and im- 
mediately they came both out with their muskets, and the man 
that was first Struck at with the pole knocked the fellow down 
that had begun the quarrel with the stock of his musket, and that 
before the other two could come to help him ; and then seeing 
the rest come at them, they stood together, and presenting the 
other ends of their pieces to them, bsäe them stand off. 

The others had fire-arms with them too; but one of the two 
honest men, bolder than his comrade, and made desperate by his 
danger, told them, if they offered to move band or foot they were 
dead men, and boldly commanded them to lay down their arms. 
They did not, indeed, lay down their arms, but seeing him so 
resolute, it brought them to a parley, and they consentea to take 
their wounded man with them and be gone ; and, indeed, it seems 
the fellow was wounded sufficiently with the blow. However, 
they were much in the wrong, since they had the advantage, that 
they did not disarm them efifectually, as they might have done, 
and have gone immediately to the Spaniards, and given them an 
account how the rogues had treated them ; for the three villains 
studied nothing but revenge, and every day gave them some in- 
timation that they did so. 

But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser part 
of the rogueries, such as treading down their com ; shooting 
three young kids and a she goat, which the poor men had got 
to breed up tame for their störe ; and, in a word, plaguing them 
night and day in this manner ; it forced the two men to such a 
desperation, that they resolved to fight them all three, the first 
time they had a fair opportunity. In order to this, they resolved 
to go to the Castle, as they called it (that was, my old dwelling), 
where the three rogues and the Spaniards all lived together at 
that time, intending to have a fair battle, and the Spaniards 
should stand by, to see fair play : so they got up in the morning 
before day, and came to the place, and called the Englishmen by 
their names, telling a Spaniard that answered that they wanted 
to speak with them. 

It happened that the day before, two of the Spaniards, having 
been in the woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom, 
for distinction, I called the honest men, and he had made a sad 
complaint to the Spaniards of the barbarous usage they had met 
with from their three countrymen, and how they had ruined 
their plantation, and destroyed their corn that they had laboured 
80 hard to bring forward, and killed the milch goat and theii 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



2es 



tliree kida^ wliicli wag all they bad providcd for their sustenaDce; 
Ättd that if he and hm iriend», meanin^^ tlie Spaniardöj did not 
» assist them again, they should be starved. Wheo the Spaniards 
catne horae at night, and they were all at supper^ one of them 
took tlie freedom to reprove the threeEnglishmen, thoughin very 
gentle and rnannerly terms, and asked ihem how they could be 
ED cruel, they hein/harnilesä, inoflensive ietlows; that they were 
' putting themsclves in a wav to subsist by iheir labour, and that 
it bad cost them a gi'eat (feal of pains to bring things to auch 
perfection as they were theii in. 

One of the Engliahmen retiirned very briakly, What had they 
to do there ? that they came on Bhore without leavej and that 
they should not plant or buikl upon the Island j it was none of 
their ground. Why, saya the Spaniard, very calmly, Senhor 
Inglese, they miiat not starve. The Engiishtnan rcplied, like a 

rongh-hewn tarpauling, They might starve and be d d ; they 

shüuld not plant nor build in that place. Bot what miist they 
do then, fietdior? said the Spaaiard» Anotber of the brutea re- 

turned, Do? d n them, tbey should be servants, and work 

for them. Biit how can you expect that of them? says the 

i Spaniardj they are not boiight with your money : you have no 

' right to nmke them servants, The Engiiahman answered, Tbe 

Island was tbeirs ; the govemor had given it to them^ and no 

, man had anytbing to do therc but tbcmselves ; ntid with that 

I Bwore by his Maker tbat they would go and biiru all their new 

liutaj they should build none upon their land. Wby, senhor, 

says tlie Spaniard; hv tbe same rule, we must be your servants 

toü*— Ay, says the hold dog, and so you sball too, before we 

have düue with you; (mixing two or three G — d d — n me's in 

the proper intervals of bis Speech.) The Spaniard only sniiled 

at that, and made him no an.swer. However, tbis little discourse 

had heated them ; and, startiugup, one says to tbe otber» I tbink 

it was he they called Will Atkins, Come, Jack, let's go, and have 

^ t*other brush with 'eni ; we'll demolish their Castle, I'll Warrant 

you; they shall plant no colony in our dominions. 

Upon ihia they went all tTooping away, with every man a gun, 
I a pbtol, and a swonl, and mnttered some insolent things among 
i themselves, of what they would do to the Spaniard$ too, when 

> opportunity offered; but the Spaniards, it seems, did not fio 
I perfectly understand them as to kuow all the particulatfl, only 

> that» in gcneral, they threatened them hard for taking the two 
Engli&hmen's part. 

Whitlier they went, or how they bestowed their timo that 

evening, the Spaniarda said they did not know ; but it seems they 

I vrandered about the country part oi^ the night, and then lying 

irdowu in the place which I used to call niy bower, they were 

[ ire«ry« and ovcrslept themHeh es* The case was ihis ; they bad 

reeolved to stay tül iniduight, and so take the two poormen when 



236 ADVENTÜRESOP 

they were asleep, and, as thej acknowlec^ed afterwards, intended 
to set fire to their buts while tbey were in them, and either bum 
tbem there, or murder tbem as they came out ; as malice seldom 
sleeps yery sound, it was very stränge they should not have 
been kept awake. 

However, as the two men had also a design upon them, as X 
have Said, though a much fairer one than that of buming and 
murdering, it happened, and very luckily for them all, that they 
were up, and gone abroad, before the bloody-minded rogues came 
to their huts. 

When they came there, and found the men gone, Atkins, who, 
it seems, was the forwardest man, caUed out to bis comrade. Ha, 

Jack, here's the nest, but, d n them, the birds are flown. 

They mused awhile, to think what should be the occasion of 
their being gone abroad so soon, and suggested presently that the 
Spaniards had given them notice of it ; and with that they shook 
hands, and swore to one another that they would be revenged 
of the Spaniards. As soon as they had made this bloody bargain, 
they feil to work with the poor men's habitation : they did not 
set fire, indeed, to anything, but they puUed down both their 
houses, and pulled them so limb from limb, that they leffc not the 
least stick standing, or scarce any sign on the ground where they 
stood ; they tore all their little collected household-stuff in pieces, 
and threw every thing about in such a manner, that the poor 
men afterwards found some of their things a mile off their habi- 
tation. When they had done this, they pulled up all the young 
trees which the poor men had planted ; pulled up an enclosure 
they had made to secure their cattle and their com ; and, in a 
Word, sacked and plundered every thing as completely as a horde 
of Tartars would have done. 

The two men were, at this juncture, gone to find them out, 
and had resolved to fight them wherever they had been, though 
they were but two to three ; so that, had they met, there cer- 
tainly would have been bloodshed among them ; for they were 
all very stout, resolute fellows, to give them their due. 

But Providence took more care to keep them asunder than 
they themselves could do to meet: for, as if they had dogged 
one another, when the three were gone thither, the two were 
here ; and afterwards, when the two went back to find them, the 
three were come to the old habitation again : we shaU see their 
different conduct presently. When the three came back like 
furious creatures, flushed with the rage which the work they had 
been about had put them into, they came up to the Spamards, 
and told them what they had done, by way of scoff and bravado ; 
and one of them, stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as if they 
had been a couple of boys at play, takes hold of his hat as it was 
upon his head, and giving it a twirl about, fleering in his face, 
says to him, And you, Senhor Jack Spaniard, shall have the same 



HOltNSON CRUSOE. 



2öT 



sauc<?, if you do not mend your matincrs. The Spankrd, who, 
thoitgli a quiet civil man, was as brave a man as coiild bc, anü 
Tvithal a strong:, well-made man, looked at hini for a ^ood ivliilei 
and then» haviiig no weapon in Ms band, stepped gravely up to 
Mm^ and with one blow of liid fist knocked him down, aa an ox 
is felled witb a polc-axe; at wbicli one of tbe rognes, as insolent 
as the firstj fired* bis pigtol at tbe Spaniard immediately : he 
missed bis hody, indeed, for tbe bullets went tbrougb bis bair, btit 
one of tbem toucbed tbe tip of bis ear, and he bled pretty niucb, 
Tbe blood tnade tbe Spaniard believe he was more hurt tban he 
really was, and that put lüm into sonie heat, for before he acted 
all in a perfect calm; but now resolving to go througb witb bis 
■work, he stooped, and took the fellow's musket wbom he had 
knocked down, and was just ^oingj to sboot tbe man wbo bad 
fired at bim, when tbe rest of tbe Spaniard-i, being in the cave^ 
came out, and calling to bim not to shoot, tbey stepp ed in, 
socured the otber two, and took their arms from them. 

When tbey were tbus disarnaed, and found they bad raade all 
the Spauiards their euemies, aa well aa their own countrymen, 
they Ijegan to cool, and, giYing tbe Spaniards better words^ 
would have tbeir arms agrain ; but the Spaniards» considering tbe 
feud that was between tbem and tbe other two Englishmen, and 
tbat it w ould be the best metbod tbey could take to keep tbem 
JTom killing one anotber, told tbem tbey woidd do tbem no barm, 
and if tbey wonM üve peaceably, they wo nid be very wiQiiig tu 
assist and associate witb tbem as they did before ; but tbat they 
could not think of giving tbem tbeir arms again, while they 
appeared so resolved to do misch ief witb tbem to tbeir own 
countrymen^ and had even threatened tbem all to make tbem 
their servants. 

The rogues were now no more capable to bear reagon thau to 
act with reason ; but beinii; refused tbeir armSj tbey went ra\dng 
away, and raging like madnien, threateningwbat they woidd do, 
tbougb tbey had no fire-arms, But the Spaniards, despising tbeir 
tbreatening, told Ibera they should take care how they offered 
any injury to their plantätion or cattlc, for if they did, they 
would shoot tbem as they woidd ravenous beasts, wherever tbey 
found tbem ; and if they feil into their hands alivc, they should 
certainly be hanged. llowever^ tbiä waa far from cooling tbem. 
but away they went, raging and sw earing like furies of hell. Aa 
soon aa they were gone, tbe two men came back, in passion and 
rage enough also, tbough of anotber kind ; for bavmg been at 
tbeir plantätion, and finding it all deniobsbed and destroyed, aa 
above, it will easily be supposed tbey had provocation enough. 
They could scarce bave room to teil tbeir tale, the Spaniardi 
were so eager to teil tbem tbeirs ; and it was stränge enough to 
find tbat three men sbould thua bully nineteen, and receive no 
puni&hment at all. 



268 ADVENTURES OF 

The Spaniards, indeed, despised theni) and especially, having 
thus disarmed tbem, made liglit of their threatenings ; but the 
two Englishmen resolved to have their remedy against them, 
what pains soever it cost to find them out But the Spaniards 
interposed here toO) and told them, that as they had disarmed 
them, they could not consent that they (the two) should pursue 
them with fire-arms, and perhaps kill them. Bht, said the grave 
Spaniard, who was their governor, we will endeavour to make 
them do you justice, if you will leave it to us ; for there is no 
doubt but they will come to us again, when their passion is over, 
being not able to subsist without our assistance : we promise. 
you to make no peace with them, without having a füll satisfac- 
tion for you ; and upon this condition we hope you will promise 
to use no violence with them, other than in your own defence. 
The two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly, and with 
great reluctance ; but the Spaniards protested that they did it 
only to keep them from bloodshed, and to make all easy at last. 
For, said they, we are not so many of us ; here is room enough 
for US all, and it is a great pity we should not be all good friends. 
At length they did consent, and waited for the issue of the thing, 
living for some days with the Spaniards ; for their own habita- 
tion was destroyed. 

In about five days' time the three vagrants, tired with wan- 
dering, and almost starved with himger, having chiefly lived on 
turtles' eggs all that while, came back to the grove ; and finding 
my Spaniard, who, as I have said, was the governor, and two 
more with him Walking by the side of the creek, they came up 
in a very submissive, humble manner, and begged to be received 
again into the family. The Spaniards used them civilly, but told 
them they had acted so unnaturally by their countrymen, and so 
very grossly by them (the Spaniards), that they could not come 
to any conclusion without Consulting the two Englishmen and 
the rest ; but, however, they would go to them, and discourse 
about it, and they should know in half an hour. It may be 
guessed that they were very hard put to it : for, it seems, as 
Qiey were to wait this half-hour for an answer, they begged they 
would send them out some bread in the mean time, which they 
did ; sending, at the same time, a large piece of goat's flesh, and 
a boiled parrot, which they ate very heartily, for they were 
hungry enough. 

After half an hour's consultation, they were called in, and a 
long debate ensued ; their two countrymen charging them with 
the ruin of all their labour, and a design to murder them ; all 
which they owned before, and therefore could not deny now. 
Upon the whole, the Spaniards acted the moderator between 
them ; and as they had obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt 
the three while they were naked and unarmed, so they now 
obliged the three to go and rebuild their fellows' two huts, one 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



26D 



tobe of tbe snme, and tlie otlier of mrger dimenäionsj than tbey 
were before ; to feuce their ^round again where tliey bad piilled 
up their fences, plant treeä in the Toom of those puUed up, dig 
up tbe land again lor plantiog corii wbere tliey bad spoiled i£ 
and, in a word, to restore every tbing^ iii tbe same State as tbey 
Ibmid it, as iiear as tbey cüuld ; for entirely it could not be, the 
seasoti for tbe coro, and tbe growtb oftke trees and bedgea, not 
being posaible to bc recovered. 

Weil, tbey submitted to all tbis ; and aa tbey bad plenty of 
provisions given tbem all tbe wbilcj tbey grew very orderly, and 
tbe ivkole society began to Uve pleasaatly and agreeably togetber 
aj^ain ; only, tbat tbese tbree icllows could never be persuaded 
to ivork, I mean für themselves, except now atid tben a bttle, 
just as tbey pleased : bowever, the Spaniards told them plainly, 
that if tbey would but live soclably and triendiy tog^etber, and 
study the good of the whole plantation, tbey would be content 
to worlc for them, and iet them walk about and be as idle as 
they pleased : and thus bavhig lived pretty well together for a 
moutb or two, the Spaniards ^ave them arras again, and gave 
tbera liberty to go abroad witb them aa before. 

It was not above a week after tbey had tbese arms^ and went 
abroad, bot the unt^atefnl creaturea began to be as insolent and 
troublcsome as before : but, bowever, an accideut bappened 
presently lipon this, whieh endaiigered tbe safety of tbem all ; 
and they were obli-ged to !ay by all private resentments, and look 
to tbe prcservation of their lives. 

It bappened one night, tbat the Spanisb §:ovcrnor, as I call 
him, that ia to say, the Spauiard vhoae life I had saved, wbo 
was now tbe cuptain, or leader, or governor of the rest, found 
himself vei-y nneasy in the night, and could by no mcans get any 
aleep : he was perfectly well in body, as be told ine the story, 
only found bis thoughts tumultuous ; bis mind ran upon men 
fighting and kill mg of one anotber» but he was broad awake, and 
could not by any raeans get any sleep : ui sbort., be lay a great 
wbile ; but growing more and more nneasy, he resolved to rise. 
As they lay, being so many of tbenit upon goats' skins laid thick 
lipon such couehes and pads as tbey made for them sei ves, and 
not in hamraocks and sliip beds, as I did, who was biit one, ao 
they bad little to do, wben tbey were mlling to rise, but to get 
up upon their feet^ and perhaps ptit on a coat, suob as it was, 
and their punips» and tbey were ready ibr going any way that 
their thoughts guided tbem. Being thus got up, he looked out: 
but, being dark, be could se© little or notbtng ; and besides, the 
trees wbich I bad planted, as in my former account is described, 
and which were now grown tiill, intercepted bis sight, so that be 
could only look up, and see that it was a clear starlight night, 
and bcar'mg no noise, be returned and laid him down again : but 
it was all one ; he could not sleep, nor could be compose himscIT 

T 2 



270 ÄDVENTÜRES OF 

to anytiling like rest ; but bis thoughts were to the last degree 
uneasy, and he knew not for what. 

Having made some noise with rising and Walking ab'out, going 
out and Coming in, anotber of tbem waked, and calling, asked 
who it waß tbat was up. Tbe govemor told bim bow it bad been 
witb bim< Say you so ? says tbe otber Spaniard ; such tbings 
are not to be sligbted, I assure you ; tbere is certainly some 
miscbief working near us : and presently be asked bim, Wbere 
are tbe Englisbmen ? — ^Tbey are all in tbeir buts, says be, safe 
enougb. It seems tbe Spaniards bad kept possession of tbe 
main apartment, and bad made a place for tbe tbree Englisbmen, 
wbo, since tbeir -last mutiny, were always quartered by tbem- 
selves, and could not come at tbe rest. Well, says tbe Spaniard, 
tbere is sometbing in it, I am persuaded, frommy own experience. 
I am satisfied our spii^its embodied bave a converse witb, and 
receive intelligence from, tbe spirits unembodied, and inbabiting 
tbe invisible world ; and tbis friendly notice is given for our 
advantage, if we knew bow to make use of it Come, says be, 
let US go and look abroad ; and if we find notbing at all in it to 
justify tbe trouble, I'll teil you a story to tbe purpose, tbat sball 
convince you of tbe justice of my proposing it. 

In a Word, tbey went out, to go up to tbe top of tbe bill 
wbere I used to go ; but tbey being strong, and a good Company, 
not alone, as I was, used none of my cautions, to go up by tbe 
ladder, and pulling it up after tbem, to go up a second stage to 
the top, but were going round througb tbe grove, imconcemed 
and unwary, when tbey were surprised with seeing a ligbt as of 
fire, a very little way oiff from them, and bearing the voices of 
men, not one or two, but of a great number. 

In all the discoveries I bad made of the savages landing on 
the Island, it was my constant care to prevent them making tbe 
least discovery of tbere being any inhabitant upon the place ; and 
when by any occasion they came to know it, they feit it so eflfect- 
nally, tbat they tbat got away were scarce able to give any 
account of it ; for we disappeared as soon as possible ; nor diel 
ever any tbat bad seen me escape to teil any one eise, except it 
was the tbree savages in our last encounter, who jumped into 
the boat ; of whom I mentioned, I was afraid they should go 
bome and bring more help. Whether it was the consequence of 
the escape of those men tbat so great a number came now to- 
getber, or whether they came ignorantlv, and by accident, on 
Sieir usual bloody errand, tbe Spaniards could not, it seems, 
understand ; but whatever it was, it bad been tbeir business 
eitber to bave concealed themselves, or not to bave seen tbem 
at all, much less to bave let the savages bave seen tbat tbere 
were any inhabitants in the place ; or to bave fallen upon them 
so effectually, as tbat not a man of them should bave escaped, 
trbicb could only bave been by getting in between them and 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 



271 



theii* boafcj : but tliis presence of rnind was wanting to them, 
which was the ruin of their tran(|mllity for a great while. 

We need not doubt Imt tliat the govcrnor and tlie man with 
htm, Burprised with this sight, ran back immediately, and raised 
their fcUows, giving them an accoimt of the immincnt danger 
they were all in, and they agjaln as readily took the alarm ; bat 
it was impossible to persuade them to stay close within, where 
they were, but they must all run out to see how thiiigs stood. 

While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough, and they 
had opportimity enougb, for tiome honrs, to view them by the 
bght of three fires they had made at a distance Irora one another; 
what they were doiag they knew not, and what to do themselves 
they knew not. For, firstj the enemy were too many : and^ 
^ «econdly, they did not keep together, bat were dividea into 
I fiever&l partics, and were on shore in severnl plaees. 

The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this sight; 

i «ind when they found that the fellows ran straggling all over the 

I «bore, they made eo donbt but, first or last^ some of them wonld 

cbop in lipon their habitation, or upon some other place where 

they wonld see the token of inhabitants ; and they were iii g^reat 

perplexity also for fear of their li&ck of goats, which wonld have 

been little less tbnn starvmg thenn, if they shoiild have been 

destroycd: so the first thing they resolved upon was to despatch 

three men away bcfore it was Bgbt, two Spaninrds and one 

I Engliiäbman^ to drive all the goats away to the great Valley 

^ where tbe cave was, and, if need were, to drive them int-o the 

very cave itself. Could they have seen the savages all together 

in one body, and at a distance from their canoes, they resolved, 

if there had been a hundrcd of them, to have attacked them ; 

but that coidd not he obtained ; for tliey were some of them two 

miles off from the other; and, as it appeared aflerwards, were 

of two dilTerent nations, 

After having ransed a ^reat wliile on the course they shonld 
take, and beating their brains in considering their present cir- 
cumstances, they resolved, at inst, while it was still dark, to 
^.Bend the old savage, Friday's fatbcr, out as a spy, to learn, il 
possible, something concerning them ; as what they came for, 
what they intended to do, and the hke. The old man readily 
undertook it ; and Stripping hiraself quite naked, as moat of the 
savages were, away he w ent. After he had been gone an hour 
or two, he brings word that he had been among them undis- 
covered ; that h© foimd they \» ere two pnrtjeSj and of two several 
nations, who had war m ith one another, and had a great batile 
in their own eountry i and that botb ßidcs baviiig had several 
prisoncrs taken in the fight, they were, hy mere cbance, Innded 
all an tbc same island, for the devouring their prisoners and 
making merry, but their coming so by chance to tbe same place 
' &d spoiled all their mirth; that they were in a great rage at 



272 ADVENTÜRES OF 

one another) and were so near, that lie believed they would fig^lik 
ag;aiii as soon as daylight began to appear : but he did not per- 
ceive that they had any notion of any body being on the Island 
but themselves. He had hardly made an end of telling bis story, ' 
when they could perceive, by the unusual noise they made, that 
the two little armies were engaged in a bloody fight. 

Friday's father used all the argoments he comd to persuade 
oiir people to lie dose, and not be seen: he told them their safety 
consisted in it, and that they had nothing to do but lie still, and 
the savages would kill one another to their hands, and then the 
rest would go away ; and it was so to a tittle. But it was impos- 
sible to prevail, espeeially upon the Englishmen ; their curiosity 
was so importunate upon their prudentials, that they must run 
out and see the battle : however, they used some caution too, 
viz. they did not go openly, just by their own dwelling, but 
went farther into the woods, and placed themselves to advantage, 
where they might securely see them manage the fight, and, &s^, 
■they thought, not be seen by them; but it seems the savages 
did see them, as we shidl find hereafter. 

The battle was very fierce ; and, if I might believe the English- 
men, one of them said he could peroeive that some of them were 
men of great bravery, of invincible spirits, and of great policy 
in guiding the fight. The battle, they said» held two noors 
before they could guess which party would be beaten ; but then, 
that party which was nearest our people's habitation began to 
appear weakest, and, after some time more, some of them began 
to fly ; and this put our men again into a great consternation, 
lest any one of those that fled should run into the grove before 
their dweUing for shelter, and thereby involuntarily discover the 
place ; and that, by consequence, the pursuers woiüd do the like 
in search of them. Upon this they resolved that they would 
stand armed within the wall, and whoever came into the grove, 
they resolved to sally out over the wall and kiU them : so that, 
if possible, not one should retum to give an account of it : they 
ordered also that it should be done with their swords, or by 
knocking them down with the Stocks of their muskets, but not 
by shooting them, for fear of raising an alarm by the noise. 

As they expected, it feil out : three of the routed army fled 
for life, and crossing the creek, ran directly into the place, not 
in the least knowing whither they went, but running as into a 
thick wood for shelter. The scout they kept to look abroad 
gave notice of this within, with this addition, to our men's great 
satisfaction, viz. that the conquerors had not pursued &em, 
or seen which way they were gone; upon this, the Spaniard 
govemor, a man of humanity, woiüd not suffer them to kill the 
three fugitives, but sending three men out by the top of the hill, 
ordered them to go roimd, come in behind them, and surprise 
and take them prisoners ; which was done. The residue of the 



ROBINSON CEUSOE. 273 

soDqiiered pt^ople fled to tbcir canocs, and gnt off to sea 5 tbe 
Victors retired', ijiadtj no pursuil:, or very little, but drawing 
Ihemselves into a body too:etljer, gave two grecit screaming 
shouts, whicL thcy supposed was by way of triumpb^ and so 
tbe figfbt ended: and tbe same day, abcmt three o^clock in tbe 
aftcrnoon, tbey also marchcd to tbeir canoes. And iboa the 
Spaiiiards bad their Island again free to themseives, tbeir fright 
was over, and tbey saw no savaj^es in several years after. 

After tbey werc all gone, tbe Spaniarda carae out of tbeir den, 
f\nd vicwing tbe field of battle, tbey found about two-and-tbirtj^ 
men dead on the spot : some were kilied witli grcat long arrows, 
some of wbidi were foiind sticking in tlieir bodies ; but most of 
tbem were küled with g^eat wooden swords, sixteen or seven- 
teen of whicb tbey found on tbe field of battle, and as many 
bows, w itb a great many arrows. Tbcse swoi-ds were stränge, 
great, unwieldy tbings, and tbey raiist be very strong meu tliat 
Tised tbem : most of those men that were kilied with tliem bad 
tbeir beads maahed to pieces, as we inay say, or^ as wc call it 
in Englisb, their brains kuockcd out, and several tbeir arms and 
legs broken ; so tbat it in evident thcy fight witb iuexpressible 
rage and fary, We found not one man tbat was not stone-dead, 
for eitber tbey stay by tbeir eneray tili thcy bave quite kilied 
him, or tbey carry all the wouuded men that are not quite dead 
iiway with them. 

Tbis deliverance tamed onr Englishmen for a ^eat whüe ; tbe 
sight had iiUed tbem witb horror, and tbe couseqiicnces appeared 
terrible to the last degrce, especially unon snpposing tbat some 
time or otber tbey should fall into the iiands of those creatures, 
•jjßrho wonM not only kill them as cnemies, but kill ihera for food, 
fw» we kill our cattle ; and tbey professed to me, tbat tbe thou^bts 
of being eaten iip like beef or mutton, thougb it was supposed 
it was not to bc tili tbey were dead, bad aomething in it so 
horrible, that it nauseated their very stomachs, made them sick 
when they tbought of it, and 111 led their minds with such unusnal 
terror, tbat they were not tbemselves for some weeks after. 
Tbis, as I said, tamed eveti the tbree Eng;lish bnites I have 
been apeaking of, and, for a ^eat wbile after» tbey were tract- 
able, and went about tbe common business of tbe wbolesodety 
well enougb; planted, sowed» reaped, and began to be all 
naturaJised to tbe country. But some time after this, they feil 
into such simple measures agaiji, as brougbt tbem into a great 
deal of trouble* 

Tliey had taken three prisoncrs, as I obsen'cd; and these 
three being lusty, stout young fellows, tbey made them aenanU, 
and taught theni to work for tbem ; and, as slaves, they did well 
enougb ; but tbey did not take their measures ^^ iih them as 
I did by my man Friday, viz. to beg^in witb them upon the 
prindple of having saveli tbeir lives, and then inatruct them in 



274 ADVENTURES OF 

the rational principles of life ; mucli less of religion, dviHziiig; 
and reducing them by kind usage and affectionate arguings; but 
as tbey gave them their food every day, so they gave them their 
work too, and kept them fully employed in drudgery enough ; 
but they failed in this by it, that they never had Üiem to assist 
them, and fight for them, as I had my man Friday, who was as 
true to me as the very flesh upon my bones. 

But to come to the family part. Being all now good friends, 
for common danger, as I said above, had effectuaUy reconciled 
them, they began to consider their general drcumstances ; and 
the first thing that came under their consideration was, whether, 
seeing the savages particularly haunted that side of the Island, 
and that there were more remote and retired parts of it equally 
adapted to their way of living, and manifestly to their advan- 
tage, they should not rather move their habitation, and plant in 
some more proper place for their safety, and especially for the 
security of their cattle and com. 

Upon this, after long debate, it was concluded that they would 
not remove their habitation ; because that, some time or other, 
they thought they might hear from their govemor again, mean- 
ing me ; and if I should send any one to seek them, I should be 
sure to direct them to that side ; where, if they should find the 
place demolished, they would conclude the savages had killed 
US all, and we were gone ; and so our supply would go too. But 
as to their com and cattle, they agreed to remove them into the 
Valley where my cave was, where the land was as proper for 
both, and where, indeed, there was land enough : however, upon 
second thoughts, they altered one part of their resolution too, 
and resolved only to remove part of their cattle thither, and 
plant part of their com there ; and so if one part was destroyed, 
the other might be saved. And one part of prudence they used, 
which it was very well they did, viz. that they never trusted 
those three savages, which they had prisoners, with knowing 
anything of the plantation they had made in that Valley, or of 
any cattle they had there, much less of the cave there, which 
they kept, in case of necessity, as a safe retreat ; and thither 
they carried also the two barreis of powder which I had sent 
them at my coming away. But, however they resolved not to 
change their habitation, yet they agreed, that as I had carefuUy 
covered it first with a wall or fortification, and then with a grove 
of trees, so seeing their safety consisted entirely in their being 
concealed, of which they were now fully convinced, they set to 
work to Cover and conceal the place yet more efiectually than 
before. For this purpose, as I planted trees, or rather thrust 
in stakes, which in time all grew up to be trees, for some good 
distance before the entrance into my apartments, they went on 
in the same manner, and filled up the rest of that whole space 
of ground; firom the trees I had set, quite down to the side o| 



ROBINSON causoE. 275 

tlie creek, wliere, as I said, I landcd niy floats, and even iüto 
tlie very ooze wliere tbe tide flowed, not so niuch as leavuig aiiy 
pUce to land, or any Bign that tliere had been any landing there- 
about : tliese stakes also beiiig; of a wood very forward to grow» 
ab' I have noted formcrly, tliey took care to ha> e tliem generally 
mucli larger and taller tban tliose which I bad plarjted j aad as 
tbey grew apace, so they planted them so very tbick and dose 
togäther, that ivhen tliey had been tliree or four years grown, 
therc wasf no piercinsj ^vitli the eye any considerable way into 
the plantation : and, as for that part whicb I had planted^ the 
tvees were grown as tbick as a man's thigh, ai)d amang them 
tbey place d so many otlier short ones, and so tbick, that, in a 
ivordj it stood like a paUaade a quarter of a mile tbickj and it 
uas next to irapossihle to penetrate it, bnt with a little army to 
cut it all down. ; for a little dog could bardly get between the 
trees, tbey stood ao close. 

Biit tbia was not all ; for tbey did tbe same by all tiie ground 
to the rigbt band and to tbe lett, and round even to tbe top of 
the bin, Icaving no way, not so rauch as for themselves to come 
out, but by tbe ladder place d np to the side of the hUl, and theo 
lifted up, and placed agaiu from the first stage up to the top ; 
and when the ladder was takeii down, nothing but what had 
winr^s, or witchcraft to assist it, could come at them. This was 
exceÜently wüU contrived ; nor was it less tban what tbey after- 
wards found occasion for ; which servcd to convince me, that as 
human prndencc bas the authority of Frovidence to jnsüfy it, so 
it ba5 donbtless the directiou of Providence to Bct it to w ork ; 
and if we listened careiidly to the voice of it, I am pcrsuadcd 
we might prcvent many of tbe disastera which our lives are now, 
by our own negligence, subjected to : but this by the way. 

I retnrn to the story. — Tbey lived two years after this in per- 
fect retirement, and bad no move Visits from the sa vages. They 
had Jödeed au alarm given tbcm one moroingj whicb put tbem 
into a great consternatiou ; for sonie of the Spaniardä belüg out 
early one moming oq tbe west side, or ratber end, of tbe Island 
(which was that end wberc I never went, ibr fear of being dis- 
covered), tbey were «urjiriatid wiih seeing above twenty canoes 
of Indiana just Coming on shore, They rnadc the bestof their 
way bomc, iu hurry enongh ; and giving tbe alarm to tlieir com- 
rades, they kept close all that day aiid tbe next, going out only 
at nig!it to make their obser\'ation : but tbey had the good luck 
to be niistaken ; for wherever the savages weut, tbey did not 
land that time on tbe Island^ bnt pursued some other design* 

And now they had another broil with tlie thrce Englishmeo ; 
one of whom, a most turbulent fellow, beiusf in a rage at one of 
the thrce «laves, which I mentioned they had taken, becausc the 
fellow bad not done sornetbing right which he bid bim do, and 
uecmed a little untractÄble in bis showing him, drew a hatcbet 



276 ADVENTÜRES OP 

out ot a frog-belt, in which be wore it by bis side, and feil upön 
tbe poor savage, not to correct bim, but to kill bim. One of tbe 
Spaniards, wbo was by, seeing bim give tbe fellow a barbarous 
cut witb tbe batcbet, wbich he aimed at bis bead, but Struck 
into bis sboulders, so tbat be tbougbt be bad cut tbe poor crea^ 
ture's arm off, ran to bim, and entreating bim not to murder tbe 
poor man, placed bimself between bim and tbe savage, to pre- 
vent tbe tniscbief. Tbe fellow being enraged tbe more at tbis, 
Struck at tbe Spaniard witb bis batchet, and swore be would 
serve bim as be intended to serve tbe savage ; wbicb tbe Spaniard 
perceiving, avoided tbe blow, and witb a sbovel wbicb he bad in 
bis band (for tbey were all working in tbe field about tbeir com- 
land) knocked tbe brüte down. Anotber of tbe Engüsbmen 
running at tbe same time to help bis comrade, knocked tbe 
Spaniard down ; and tben two Spaniards more came in to belp 
tbeir man, and a tbird Englisbman feil in upon tbem. Tbey bad 
noue of tbem any fire-arms, or any otber weapons but batcbets 
and otber tools, except tbis tbird Englisbman ; be bad one of 
my rusty cutlasses, witb wbicb be made at tbe two last 
Spaniards, and woimded tbem botb. Tbis fray set tbe wbole 
family in an uproar, and more belp Coming in,, tbey took tbe 
tbree Englisbmen prisoners. Tbe next question was, wbat 
sbould be done witb tbem ? Tbey bad been so often mutinous, 
and were so very furious, so desperate, and so idle witbal, tbey 
knew not wbat course to take witb tbem, for tbey were mis- 
cbievous to tbe bigbest degree, and valued not wbat hurt tbey 
did to any man ; so tbat, in short, it was not safe to live witb 
tbem. 

Tbe Spaniard wbo was governor told tbem, in so many words, 
tbat if tbey bad been of bis own country, be would bave banged 
tbem ; for all laws and all govemors were to preserve society, 
and those wbo were dangerous to tbe society ought to be ex- 
peUed out of it ; but as tbey were Englisbmen, and tbat it was 
to tbe generous kindness of an Englisbman tbat tbey all owed 
tbeir preservation and deliverance, be would use tbem witb all 
possible lenity, and would leave tbem to tbe judgment of tbe 
otber two Englisbmen, wbo were tbeir countrymen. 

One of tbe two honest Englisbmen stood up, and said tbey 
desired it migbt not be left to tbem ; For, says be, I am sure we 
ougbt to sentence tbem to tbe gallows : and witb tbat he gives 
an account bow Will Atkins, one of tbe tbree, bad proposed to 
bave all tbe five Englisbmen join togetber, and murder all tbe 
Spaniards wben tbey were in tbeir sleep. 

Wben tbe Spanisb governor beard this, be calls to Will Atkins, 
How, Senbor Atkins, would you murder us all ? Wbat bave you 
to say to tbat ? The bardened villain was so far from denying 
it, tbat he said it was true : and, G — d d — ^n bim, tbey would do 
it still, before tbey bad done witb tbem. Well, but Senbor 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 277 

Atkins, says the Spaniard, wliat liave vre dotiß to von, tlmt you 
will kill US ? And what wquld you get by killing us ? And what 
must we do to prevent your killing us ? Must we kill you, or 
you kill US ? Wby will you put us to the ne^essity of this, 
SeuLor Atklns? äays the Spaniard very calmly and smiling, 
Senhor Atkins was m such a rage at the Spaniard 's making a 
jest of it, ihntf kad he not been held by tkree men, and vvithal 
liad no weapou near hini, it was t]ioujj;ht he would have attcmpted 
to liave killed the Spaniard in the middle of all the Company. TMb 
hairbrain carriage obüj:^ed them to consider seriously i\ hat was 
to be done : the two Englishmeo» and the Spaniard who saved 
the poor saTaj2;e, were of the opinion that they sliould hang one 
of the three, for an exaraple to the rest; and that particularly it 
should be he that had twice attempted to commit murder with 
hia hatchet; and, indeed, there was some reason to believe he 
had done it, for the poor savage was in such a miserable con- 
dition with the wound he had received» that it was thoa^ht he 
coiild not live. But Lhe goveroor Spaniard still Said no ; it was 
an Englishnian that had saved all their lives, and he would never 
consent to put an Englishman to dealh, though he had murdered 
half of them ; uay, he said, iJhe had been killed himself by an 
Eng:li«bman, and had time left to speak, it should be that they 
should pardon him. 

This was so positively insisted on by the governor Spaniard, 

that there was no gainsaying it ; and as raercifol counsels are 

most apt to prevail, where they are so earnestly pressed, so they 

all came into it; but tlien it was to he eonsidercd what should 

be done to keep them from doint]c the mischicf they designed ; 

for all agreed, ^overnor and all, that raeans were to be uscd for 

preserviuor the society froui d»inger. Alter a long debate, it was 

, agrced, first, that theV should he disarmed, and not pemiitted to 

baye either gtui, powder, shot, sword, or any weapon ; and 

► sliould he tnrned out of the society, and left to Uve where they 

[wouldtatid hü w they would, by them sei v es; but that none of 

[ the rest, either Spaniards or Enp^lish, should converse with them, 

speak with tltem, or have anythiug to do with them : that they 

I ehould be forbid to conie mthin a certain tlistancc of the place 

I where the rest dwelt; and if they offered to commit aoy dis* 

(•erder, so as to spoil, hurn, kill, or destroy any uf the com, 

[ plantings, buildings, fences, or cattle belonpng to the society, 

' they should the without mercy, and they wuuld bhoot them wher* 

cver they could find them, 

The governor, a man of great humanity, tntising upon the 
Sent^nce, considered a little upon it ; and turning to the two 
Ibonest Englishmen» said, Hold ; you mustreflect tlmt it ^vill he 
[long ere they can raise corn and cattle of thcir own, and they 
I jDust not starve ; we rouist tbercfurc allow them provision« : so 
I lie caused to be added, that they should have a proportion of 



278 ADVENTÜRES OP 

com given ^hem to last them eight months, and for seed to sow, 
by vhich time they might be supposed to raise some of their 
own ; that they sbould have six milch-goats, four be-goats, and 
six kids given tbem, as well for present subsistence as for a 
Store ; and that tbey should have tools given them for their 
work in the fields, such as six hatchets, an adze, a saw, and the 
like ; but they should have none of these tools or provisions, 
unless they would swear solemnly that they would not hurt or 
injure any of the Spaniards with them, or of their fellow 
Englishmen. 

Thus they dismissed them the society, and tumed them out to 
shift for themselves. They went away sullen and refractory, as 
neither content to go away nor to stay ; but as there was no 
remedy, they went, pretending to go and choose a place where 
they would settle themselves ; and some provisions were given 
them, but no weapons. 

About four or five days after, they came again for some 
victuals, and gave the governor an account where they had 
pitched their tents, and marked themselves out a habitation and 
plantation ; and it was a very convenient place, indeed, on the 
remotest part of the Island, N.E., much about the place where I 
providentiaUy landed in my first voyage, when I was driven out 
to sea, the Lord alone knows whither, in my foolish attempt to 
eail round the Island. 

Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and contrived 
them in a manner like my first habitation, being close under the 
side of a hill, having some trees growing already on three sides 
of it, so that by planting others, it would be very easily covered 
from the sight, unless narrowly searched for. They desired 
some dried goats'-skins, for beds and covering, which were given 
them ; and upon giving their words that they would not disturb 
the rest, or injure any of their plantations, they gave them 
hatchets, and what other tools they could spare ; some peas, 
barley, and rice , for sowing ; and, in a word, anything they 
wanted, except arms and ammunition. 

. They lived in this separate condition about six months, and 
had got in their first harvest, though the quantity was but small, 
the parcel of land they had planted being but little ; for, indeed, 
having all their plantation to form, they had a great deai of 
work upon their hands ; and when they came to make boards 
and pots, and such things, they were quite out of their dement, 
and could make nothing of it : and when the rainy season came 
on, for want of a cave in the earth, they could not keep their 
grain dry, and it was in great danger of spoiling; and this 
humbled them much : so they came and begged the Spaniards 
to help them, which they very readily did ; and in four days 
worked a great hole in the side of the hill for them, big enough 
to secure their com and other things from the rain : but it was 



EOBIKSON CRUSOE. 



279 



thnt a poor place, at best, compared to mine, aed especially as 
mine was tlien, for tlie Spaiiiarda had greatly enJarged it, and 
tnadc several new apartments in it, 

Aboiit three-quarters of a year afler this Separation, a new 
froUc took these rog^ies, i^hicli, tog-ether witb the former ^ülany 
thcy liad committcd, brouglit mischief enoiigh upon tlieir»j aad 
had very near been tlie min of the wbole colony. The three 
new associates began, jt seciiis, to be vreary of tbe laborious life 
tbey led, aod tbat witbout bcjpe of bettering tbeir eircumstances ; 
imd a whim took tbem, that tbey would niake a voyage to the 
conti nent, irom whence the s avages came^ and would try if they 
could s eiste upon aome pnaoners amon^ tbe nativcs thcre, anä 
bring tbem hörne, so to makc tbem do tbe laborious part of tbeir 
"Work for tbem. 

The project was not so prepoaterons, if tbey had gone no 
fartber : biit tbey did nothing^, and proposed nothingj nut had 
oither miscbicf in tbe design, or mischief in the event : und, il 
I may give roy opinion, tbey seemed to bc under a blast from 
Heaven ; for il we will not allow avisible ciu'se to pursue viaible 
crimes, how sball we recoucile the events of things with the 
divine justice? It uaa certainly an ajiparent vengeance on tbeir 
crime of nrntiny and piracy tbat brought them to the State they 
Tvere in ; and they showed not the least remorse for the crime, 
but added new villanies to it, euch as the piece of monstrous 
cruelty of woimding a poor slave, becaiise be did not, or perhaps 
could not, nnderstand to do wbat be was directed, and to wo und 
bim in auch a manner aa made him a cripple all bis life, and in a 
place wbere no sur^reon or medicine could be had for bis eure ; 
ad wbat was still worse, ihe murderous intent, or, to do justice 

|to the crime, tbe intentional raurder, for such to be äure it was, 
was afterwards the formed design they all kid, to murder the 
Ipaniards in cold blood, and in tbeir sieep. 



280 



ADVENTURES OP 




SECTION XXXV. 



THE MUTINOÜS fiNGLISHMEN ARE DISMISSED FROM THE ISLAND — 
RETÜRN WITH SEVERAL CAPTIVE SAVAGES — TAKE THE FEMALES 
AS WIVES—ARRIVAL OF SAVAGES. 

BuT I leave observing, and retum to the Story. — The three 
fellows came down to the Spaniards one mottiing, and in very 
humble terms desired to be admitted to speak with them ; the 
Spaniards very readily heard what they had to say, which was 
this : — That they were tired of living in the manner they did ; 
and that they were not handy enough to make the necessaries 
they wanted, and that having no help, theyfonnd they should be 
starved ; but if the Spaniards would give them leave to take one 
of the canoes which they came over in, and give them arms and 
ammunition proportioned to their defence, they would go over to 
the main and seek their fortunes, and so deliver them from the 
trouble of supplying them with any other provisions. 

The Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of them, but very 
honestly represented to them the certain destruction they were 
running into ; told them they had suffered such hardships upon 
that very spot, that they could, without any spirit of prophecy, 
teil them they would be starved, or murdered, and bade them 
consider of it. 

The men replied audaciously, they should be starved if they 
stajred here, for they could not work, and would not work, anä 
they could but be starved abroad ; and if they were murdered, 
there was an end of them ; they "had no wives or children to cry 
after them : and, in short, insist^d importunately upon their 
demand ; declaring they would go, whether they would give 
them any arms or no. 

The Spaniards told them, with great kindness that if they 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



2S1 



were resolved to go^ they sbould not go like naked men, and be 
in no coDditiün to dcJciid themselves ; aud that tliough tliey 
cüuld iU sparo their fire-arms, having not enough for theruselvea, 
yet they wo nid let thera have two muslcetä, a piatol and a cut- 
lasSj and each man a hatcliet, wliicli thcy lliought was siifiident 
for tbem. In a word, Ümy accepted'the oüer; and having 
baked tbem bread enougb to serve iliem a month» and giveu 
thera as mncb goat'a flesn as tliey coiüd eat wMle it waa sweet, 
and a ^eat basket of dried grapea, a pot of fresb water, and a 
lyoung kid alive, tbey boldly set out in the canoe for a voyage 
over tbe sea, wbere it was at least forty miles broad. 

The boat, indecd, was a large one, and woiild very well have 

carricd fiftecn or twenty men^ and therefore was rather too big 

Ibr tbem to manage; biit as tbeybad a fairbreeze, and üood ride 

witb tbemj they djd well eaoiigh, Tbey bad made a mast of a 

_long pole» and a sail of foiir largo goats'-skins dried, whidi they 

[Had sewed or laced together ; and away they w ent mcrriiy 

lenough : the Spaniards called after tbem, Buen v'tage; and no man 

ffver thougbt of seeing them any more. 

The Spaniards were ofteu saying to one another, and to the 

two honest EngUsbmen who renmincd bchind, how cjuietly and 

comfortably they lived, now thesc three turbulent fellows were 

gone : as for their Coming again, tbat was the remotest thing 

from their thoiigiats that could be imagitied ■ when, behold, after 

»two-and- twenty days' absence^ one of tbe Englisbmen, being 

^ftbroad upon hia plantin g work, aees ihree stränge men Coming 

towards hun at a distantie, wilh i^uns upou their Shoulders. 

Away i-uns tbe EnarlishDian, as if he was bewiLched, comes 

' frightened and amazed to the governor Spaniard, and telU him 

"hey were all nndone, for there were stTangers landed upon the 

ilsland, bat eonld not teil wbo. The Spaniard, p ausin g a while, 

[jsays to him, How do you mean, ycm cannot teil wbo? They are 

he savagcs, to be sure. — No, no, says the Engbsbman ; they 

l«re men in clothea, wilh arms. — Nay, then, says the Spaniard^ 

lirhy are you concerned ? If they are not savageSi tbey ranst be 

■iends ; for there is no Christian nation upon earth bat will do 

\ good ra tb er than barm. 

r Wlüle they were debating thns, came the three Englisbmen, 
"li Standing witbout tbe wood, which was new planted» ballooed 
I tliem : theypresently knew their voices, and so all the wonder 
of that kind ceased. Bnt now the adrairation wag tiirned upon 
another question, vix., What could he the matter, and what mikde 
them CO nie back again ? 

It was not long betöre they brougbt the men in, and inquiring 
ffhere they bad been, and what they bad been doing, they gave 
hem ft füll account of ilieir voyage in a few words, vix, That 
hey reacbed tbe land in two diiy^^ or stomcthbig less; but 
öding tbe people alarmed at their Coming, and prepariog with 



282 ADVENTURES OF 

bows and arrows to fight them, tliey durst not go on shore, but 
sailed on to the northward six or seven hours, tiU they came to 
a great openinff, by which they perceived that the land they saw 
firom our Island was not the main, but an Island ; upon entering 
that opening of the sea, they saw another Island on the right 
band, north, and several more west ; and being resolved to land 
somewhere, they put over to one of the islan£ which lay west, 
and went boldly on shore : that they found the people very 
courteous and Mendly to them ; and that they gave them several 
roots and some dried fish, and appeared very sociable ; and the 
women as well as the men were very forward to supply them 
with anything they could get for them to eat, and brought it to 
them a great way upon their heads. 

They contmued here four days ; and inquired, as well as they 
could of them, by signs, what nations were this way, and that 
way ; and were told of several fierce and terrible people that 
lived almost every way, who, as they made known by signs to 
them, used to eat men ; but as for themselves, they sai^ they 
never ate men or women, except only such as they took in the 
wars ; and then, they owned, they made a great feast, and ate 
their prisoners. 

The Englishmen inquired when they had had a feast of that 
kind ; and they told them about two moons ago, pointing to the 
moon, and to two fingers ; and that their great king had two 
hundred prisoners now, which he had taken in bis war, and they 
were feecung them to make them fat for the next feast The 
Englishmen seemed mighty desirous of seeing those prisoners ; 
but the others mistaking them, thought they were desirous to 
have some of them to carry away for their own eating : so they 
beckoned to them, pointing to the setting of the sim, and then 
to the rising ; which was to signify that the next moming at 
sun-rising they would bring some for them ; and, accordingly, 
the next moming, they brought down five women, and eleven 
men, and gave them to the Englishmen, to carry with them on 
their voyage, just as we would bring so many cows and oxen 
down to a seaport town to victual a ship. 

As brutish and barbaroas as these fellows were at home, thei^ 
stomachs turned at this sight, and they did not know what to do. 
To reftise the prisoners would have been the highest affront to 
the savage gentry that could be offered them, and what to do 
with them Siey knew not. However, after some debate, they 
resolved to accept of them ; and, in retum, they gave the 
savages that brought them one of their hatchets, an old key, a 
knife, and six or seven of their buUets ; which, though they did 
not imderstand their use, they seemed particularly pleased 
with ; and then tying the poor creatures' hands behind them, 
they dragged the prisoners into the boat for our men. 
' The Englbhmen were obliged to come away as soon aa they 



EOBINSON CRUBOB, 

bad tbemj or eise they that ^ave them tliis noble present wonld 
ertainly have expected that they slioulcl have gone to work 
Rwith thenii have killed two or tliree of theiii the next moming, 
fand perhaps have invited the donora tu dinncr. But haviii^ 
Itftketi their leave, ivith all the rcspect and thfinks that could 
Ivcll pass hetween people, where, on either aide, they mider- 

Btood not one word they coiild say, they put otTwith their boat, 
lliiLd came hack tcnvards the first Island; ^\here, when they 
■«rrived, they set cight of their prisoners at libcrty, there heing 

too matiy of them for their occaaion. 

In their voyage, they endeavoured to have some communi- 
t cation with their prisoners ; but it. was impossible to make them 
^nuderstaud anything ; nothing they could say to them, or give 
■»them, or do for them, but was looked upon as going to murder 
|ithem, They firat of all mihound them ; but the poor creatures 
^ecreamed at tliat, especially the women, as if they had just feit 
|«the kiiife at their throats ; for they immediately concluded they 
\irere uiibound on purpose to he killed. If they gave them any- 
►thing to eat, it was the same thing; they then concluded it 
[ TTfts for fear they should sink in flesh, and so not be tat enough 

to kilL If they looked at one of then^ more particularly, the 
nparty presently concluded it was to see whcther he or she was 
yfotteat, and Attest to kill first; nay, after they had brought 

them quite over, and begun to use them kiiidlyj and treat them 

well, stili they expectcd every day to make a dinner or supper 

for their new mastera. 

When the thrce wanderera had pven this unaccountable 
Lhi«tory or jouruai of their voyage, the Spaniard asked them 
I-vhere their ncw faraily was; and bemg told that they had 
I Ijrought them on shore, and put them into one of their huta, 

and were come up to beg some victuals for them, they (the 

-Spaniards) and the other two Englishmen, that ia to eav» the 

whole colony, resohed to go all down to the place and see 
> them; and did so, and Friday^s father with them. 

When they c^me into the hut, there they sat all hound; for 
\ 'when they had brought them on ahore, they bouud their hands, 
} that they might not take the boat and make their escape ; 
I 4.here, 1 aay, they sat, all of them stark naked, Firat, there 
[«vere thrce men, lusty» comcly fellovrs, weli-shapcd, straigbt 
IJÄir limbs, about tbirty to thirty-five years of age; and tive 
Ben» whereof two might be froni thirty to forty ; two more 

bot above four or ftve-and-twenty ; and the firth, a tall comely 
I jnaiden, about sixteen or seventicn* Tlie w omen were well- 
( favoured, agrccahle persons, both in sbape and features, only 
J tawTiy ; and two of them, had they been perfect white, would 
I liave passed for very hand^onie wo men, even in London itselt*, 
I having plca»imt agreeable countenances» and of ä very modest 
' ftviönr: especially when they carne ailerwftrds to b© clothed 
u 



284 ADVENTÜBESOF 

and dressed, as they called it, thoagh tbat dress was very 
indifferent, it must be confessed ; of wMch hereafter. 

The sight, you may be sure, was sometbing uncouth to onr 
Spaniards, wbo were, to give tbem a just cbaracter, men of thc 
best bebaviour, of tbe most calm, sedate tempers, and perfect 
good bumour, tbat ever I met witb ; and, in particular, of tke 
most modest, as will presently appear : I say, tbe sigbt was 
very uncoutb, to see tbree naked men and five naked women, all 
togetber bound, and in tbe most miserable cireumstances tbat 
buman nature could be supposed to be, viz. to be expecting every 
moment to be dragged out, and bave tbeir brains Knocked out, 
and tben to be eaten up like a calf tbat is killed for a dainty. 

Tbe first tbing tbey did was to cause tbe old Indian, Friday's 
fatber, to go in, and see, first, if be knew any of tbem, and tben 
if be imderstood any of tbeir speecb. As soon as tbe old man 
came in, be looked seriously at tbem, but knew none of tbem; 
neitber could any of tbem understand a word be said, or a sign 
he could make, except one of tbe women. However, tbis was 
enougb to answer the end, wbicb was to satisfy tbem tbat tbe 
men into wbose bands they were fallen were Christians ; tbat 
they abborred eating men or women ; and tbat tbey migbt be 
sure they would not be killed. As soon as tbey were assnred 
of tbis, they discovered such a joy, and by such awkward ges- 
tures, several ways, as is bard to describe ; for, it seems, uiey 
were of several nations. 

The woman wbo was tbeir Interpreter was bid, in the next 
place, to ask them if tbey were willing to be servants, and to work 
for the men wbo bad brought them away, to save tbeir lives; at 
wbicb tbey all feil a dancing ; and presently one feil to taking 
up tbis, and another tbat, any tbing tbat lay next, to carry on 
tbeir Shoulders, to intimate tbat they were willing to work. 

The governor, wbo found that tbe having women among 
tbem would presently be attended with some inconvenience, 
and migbt occasion some strife, and perhaps blood, asked tbe 
tbree men wbat they intended to do with these women, and bow 
tbey intended to use them, whether as servants or as women ? 
One of the Englishmen answered very boldly and readily, that 
tbey would use them as both ; to wbicb the governor said, I am 
not going to restrain you from it ; you are your own masters as 
to tbat; but tbis I think is but just, for avoiding disorders and 
quarreis among you, and I desire it of you for that reason only, 
viz. that you will all engage, that if any of you take any of these 
women, as a woman or wife, that he shall take but one : and 
tbat having taken one, none eise shall touch her ; for thougb wo 
cannot marry any one of you, yet it is but reasonable tbat wbile 
you stay bere, tiie woman any of you takes sbould be main- 
tained by the man that takes her, and sbould be bis wife ; I 
* mean, says be, wbile he continues here, and that none eise shall 



EOfllNSON CRUSOE* 



285 



have anything to do with ber» All this appoared so just, that 
[every one agrced to it witliout any dilficulty. 

Tuen tlie Englishniefi askeü the Spaniardü if.they designed to 

Ltake any of them? But every one of tbem auswcred no : some 

f>f them aaid ttiey had wives in Spam^ aud tbe others did not 

\e woroen tbat were not Christians : and all to^ether declared 

tliat they would uot touch one of them : which was an instance 

liOf such virtue as I have not raet with in all my travela. On tbe 

LDther band, to be short, the live Engbslmien took thcra every 

lono a wUe, tbat is to say, a temporary w'iiv. ; and so thej sct up 

La ncw Ibrai ot'bvmg; for the Spaniards and Friday's father lived 

Lin my cdd babitation, whicb they bad cnlarged exceedin^ly within. 

ItThe three servants which were taken in the late battle of the 

LÄÄvageiä lived with tbem ; and tbcse carried on the main pari of 

fthe cobny» suppUed all the rcst with food, and assisted them in 

anytbing as they could, or as they foimd necessity required. 

Uut the wonder of tbe story was, how five such refractory, ill- 

^matt'bed fellows shauld agree about these women, and that two 

lof tbem should not pitch upon the samc woman, especially seeiog 

itwo or tbree of tbem were, without comparisonj more agreeable 

kthan the others: but they took a good way enough to prevent 

auarrelling among themselves ; Ibr they sct the five womeu by 
licniseU es in one of their huts, and they went all into the other 
► hut, and drew lots araong tbem wbo should choose iirst. 

lie tbat drew to cboose first went awaj by himseh' to the hut 

where the poor naked creaturea were, and fetehed out her he 

L.cbose ; and it was worth obsen^ng» that be that chose first took 

l her that was reckoned the homeliest and oldest of the five, which 

imadc mirth enongb aniong the restj and even tbe Spaniards 

i laugbed at it : but the fellow considered betler than any of them, 

that it was applieatioD aud business they were to expect assist- 

auce in, as mucb a» in anytbing eise ; and sbe provcd the best 

wüe of all the parceL 

Wbeu tbe poor women saw themselves set in a row thus, and 
fetebed out one by one» tbe terrors of tbeir condition returned 
upou them again, and they tirmly believed they were now going 
to be dcvourcd. Accordingly, wben tbe Eoglish sailor came i»i 
and i*et<!bed out one of them, tbe rest set up a raost lamentable 
cry, and bung about her, aud took their leave of ber with such 
agonics aud affection, as would have grieved the hardcst heart 
in the world; nor was it possible for the Engliähmen fco satisfy 
them that they were not to be immediatcly murdcred, tili they 
fctcbed the old man, Friday's tather, who immediately let them 
know that tbe five men, wbo had fetehed them out one by one, 
bad cboseu them for their wives. 

Wben they had done, and tbe fright the women were in was 
a little over, tbe men went to work, and the Spaniards came and 
belped them ; and in a few bours they had built tbem everv one 
ü2 



286 ADYENTURES OP 

a new hut or tent for their lodging apart ; for those they had 
already were crowded with their tools, nousehold stuff, and pro- 
visions. The three wicked ones had pitched farthest ofi^ and the 
two honest ones nearer, but botb on the north shore of the 
Island, 80 that they continued separated as before ; and thus my 
Island was peopled in three places ; and, as I might say, three 
towns were begun to be built. 

And here it is very well worth observing, that, as it often 
happens in the world (what the wise ends of God's providence 
are, in such a disposition of things, I cannot say), the two honest 
fellows had the two worst wives ; and the three reprobates, that 
were scarce worth hanging, that were fit for nothing, and neither 
seemed bom to do themselves good, nor any one eise, had three 
derer, diligent, careM, and ingenious wives : not that the first 
two were bad wives, as to their temper or humour, for all the 
five were most willing, quiet, passive, and subjected creatares, 
rather like slaves than wives ; but my mdaning is, they were 
not alike capable, ingenious, or industrious, or alike cleanly 
and neat. 

Another Observation I must make, to the honour of a diligent 
application, on one band, and to the disgrace of a slothful, 
negligent, idle temper, on the other, that when I came to the 
place, and viewed the several improvements, plantings, and 
management of the several little colonies, the two men had so 
far outgone the three, that there was no comparison. They had, 
indeed, both of them as much ground laid out for com as they 
wanted, and the reason was, because, according to my rule, 
nature dictated that it was to no purpose to sow more com than 
they wanted ; but the difference of the cultivation, of the plant- 
ing, of the fences, and, indeed, of every thing eise, was easy to 
be Seen at first view. 

The two men had innumerable young trees planted about their 
huts, so that when you came to the place, nothing was to be 
$een but wood : and though they had twice had their plantation 
demolished, once by their own countrymen, and once by the 
enemy, as shall be shown in its place, yet they had restored all 
again, and every thing was thriving and flourishing about them : 
they had grapes planted in order, and managed like a vineyard, 
though they had themselves never seen anything of that kind ; 
and by their good ordering their vines, their grapes were as good 
again as any of the others. They had also found themselves out 
a retreat in the thickest part of the woods; where, though there 
was not a natural cave, as I had found, yet they made one with 
incesstmt labour of their hands, and where, when the mischief 
which foUowed happened, they secured their wives and children, 
so as they could never be found; they having, by sticking innu- 
merable stakes and poles of the wood which, as I said, grew so 
reädily, made the grove unpassable, except in some places where 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 



287 



tliey clinibed iip to get over the outside part, and Üaen went od 
hy ways of tlieir own leaving. 

As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them, tbougb tbey 
nvere much civilized by their settlement» compared to what tbey 
\Tere beibre, and \¥cre not so quarrelsomej baving not tlie same 
oppoi'timity ; yet oiie of tbc ctrtuiii companions of a profligatc 
mind never left tbera, and that was their idlenesa. It is true, 
tbey planted coni, and made feices ; but Solomon s words were 
never better verified tlian in tbem, '* I vvent by the vineynrd of 
the slotbiul, and it was all overg:ro\vn witb tborns ;'* ibr when 
the Spaniards came to view their crop, tbey could not see it in 
some places Ibr weeda, the hedge had several gaps in it, where 
the wild goats had got in aud eaten iip the com; perhaps bere 
and tbere a dead busb was crammed in, to stop ihein out ibr the 
present, bui It was only sbutiiii^ tbe stable^door after the steed 
was Stolen ; whereas, when tbey looked on the ctdony of the 
other two, there was the very face of industry and siiccess lipon 
idl tbey did ; tliere was not a weed to be aeen in all their corn, 
üf a gap in any of their hedge s ; and they^ on the other band, 
verified Solomon's words in an other place, '* that the diligent 
hand maketh rieh ;" for every tbing ^rew and thrived, and they 
had plenty wilbin and witbout ; they had more tarae cattle than 
tlie others, more Utensils and uecessaries wilhin doors, and yet 
more pleasiure and diversioii too. 

It is true, the wives of the ihree were very handy and cleanly 
within doors, and liaving learned the English waya of dreasing 
and cooking from one of the other Kuglishtnen, who, at* I said* 
was a cook's niate on board tbe sbip, they dressed their hus- 
bands' victualH very nice ly and well ; wbcreas the others could 
not be brotight to understand it : bnt then the husband, who, as 
I say, had been cook's mate, did it hbuself. But as for the hua- 
bands of the three wives, tbey loitered about, fetched turtles' 
cggs, and caught fish and birds ; in a word, adything bot labonr, 
and tbey fared accordingly. The diligent iived well and coro- 
fortably; and the slothful livcd bard aud beggarly ; and so, I 
believe, generally speaking, it is all over the worhh 

But I now comc to a scene ditferent from all tbat had hap- 

pened before, either to tlicm or to me; and the orig^inal of the 

atory was this ; Karly oue niorning, there came on shore five or 

'mx canoes c>f Indiana or savagcs, call tbem whieb you please, 

And there is no room to donbt they came upon the old crrand of 

feeding upon their slaves j bnt that part was now so familiär to 

Uie Spaniards^ and to our meii too, tbat they did not concem 

themselvcs about it, as I did : but baving been made sensiblei 

by theirexperiencc, tbat their only business wa.9 to lie concealed, 

ji^nd tbat if they were not secn by any of the savages, they would 

IX^o olT again c(uictly, when their business was done, having, as 

yet, not the least notion of there being any inhabitanta in tbc 



288 ADVENTURES OP 

Island ; I say, having been made sensible of this, they had nothing 
to do but give notice to all the three plantations to keep within 
doorS) and not sbow themselves, only placing a scout in a pro- 
per place, to give notice when the boats went to sea again. 

This was, without doubt, very right ; but a disaster spoiled 
all these measures, and made it known among the savages that 
there were inhabitants there ; which was, in the end, the desola- 
tion of almost the whole colony. After the canoes with the 
■savages were gone off, the Spaniards peeped abroad again ; and 
some of them had the curiosity to go to the place where they 
had been, to see what they had been doing. Here, to their great 
surprise, they found three savages left behind, and lying fast 
asleep upon the ground. It was supposed thev had either been 
so gorged with their inhuman feast, that, like beasts, they were 
fallen asleep, and would not stir when the others went, or they 
had wandered into the woods, and did not come back in time to 
be taken in. 

The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and per- 
fectly at a loss what to do. The Spanish governor, as it hap- 
pened, was with them, and bis advice was asked, but he professed 
he knew not what to do. As for slaves, they had enough already ; 
and as to killing them, they were none of them inclined to that: 
the Spanish governor told me, they could not think of shedding 
innocent blood : for as to them, the poor creatures had done 
them no wrong, invaded none of their property, and they thought 
they had no just quarrel against them, to take away their lives. 
And here I must, in justice to these Spaniards, observe, that let 
the accounts of Spanish cruelty in Mexico and Peru be what 
they will, I never met with seventeen men of any nation what- 
soever, in any foreign country, who were so universally modest, 
temperate, virtuous, so very good-humoured, and so courteous, 
as these Spaniards ; and as to cruelty, they had nothing of it in 
their very nature : no inhumanity, no barbarity, no outrageous 
passions ; and yet all of them men of great courage and spirit 
Their temper and calmness had appeared in their bearing the 
insufferable usage of the three Englishmen ; and their justice 
and humanity appeared now in the case of the savages, as above. 
After some consultation, they resolved upon this: that they 
would lie still a while longer, tili, if possible, these three men 
mightbe gone, But then the governor Spaniard recollected, 
that the three savages had no boat ; and if tney were left to rove 
about the island, they would certainly discover that there were 
inhabitants in it ; and so they should be undone that way. Upon 
this they went back again, and there lay the fellows fast asleep 
still, and so they resolved to waken them, and take them pn- 
soners ; and they did so. The poor fellows were strangely 
frightened when they were seized upon and bound ; and afraid, 
like the women, that they should be murdered and eaten : for it 



ROBINSON CRUSOE* 



289 



seems thöse people think all tlie world does as ihey do, eating: 
men's flesh ; hut they ivere soon made easy as to that, aud away 
they carried them. 

It was very liappy for tliem tbat they did not carry theiii home 
to tbeir Castle, 1 mean to my pakce tinder tlitJ hUl ; but they 
carried them lirst to Ihe bower, where was the ehief of their 
country work, such as Üxe keeping the goats, the plant ing the 
corn, &c.; and afterwards they carried them to the habitation 
of the two Eiiglishmen, 

Here they were set to work, thoiigh it was not raucb they liad 
for them to do; and whether it was by neglis^ence in ^uarding 
thenii or that they thoup^ht the feOows could not mend them- 
ficlves, I know not, bnt one of them run away, and taking to the 
Woods, they could nevcr hear of him any more. 

They had good reason to bclieve he ^ot home again soon after, 
in some other boats or canoes of savages who came on shore 
three or Ibnr wceks afterwards ; and who, carrying on their revcls 
KU usual, went off in two days time. This thought temtied them 
exceedingly ; for they concluded^ and that not withoiit good 
cause indeed, that if this fellow came home safe among bis com- 
rades, he would certaiiily give them an account that there were 
people in the island, and also how l'ew and weak they were : for 
tbis aavage, as 1 ohserv cd betöre, badnever been told, and it was 
very happy he had not, Low many there were, or Tibere they 
Uved; nor had he ever seeu or beard the fire ol' any of their guns, 
muebless bad they shown !iim any of their other retLi-ed placea; 
such as the cave in the v^illey, or the new retreat which the 
two Englishmen had made, and tbe like. 

The first testimony they had that this fellow had giveti intol- 
ligence of them was, tbat, about two months after tbis, six canoes 
of savages, with about seven, eight^ or ten men in a canoe» came 
rowing along the north side of the island, where they never used 
to come before, and landed, about an hour after srnirise, at a 
convenient place, about a mile from the habitation of the two 
Englishmen, where this escaped man had been kept. As the 
Spauiard governor said, had they been all there, tbe damage 
woiiid not have heen so much, for not a man of them would liave 
I cscaped : but the case dilfered now \ ery much, for two men to 
fifty was too much odds- The two men had tbe happiness to 
liiscover them about a Icaguc olf, so that it was above an hour 
before they landed ; and as they landed a miie Iroin their huta, 
it was ßome time before they could come attheni. Now, baving 
^eat reason to believe that they were betrayed, the first thing 
they did was to bind the two slaves which were left» and cause 
two of the three men whom tht'V brought with the woraen (who, 
it seems, provcd vcry faitbful to them) to lead them, with their 
[ two wivea, and whatever they coiiki carry away with them, to 
tlieir retircd places in the noods, which I have spokcn of above, 



290 ADVENTURES OF 

and there to bind the two fellows hand and foot, üll they hesrd 
ftirther. 

In the next place, seeing the savages were all come on shore, 
and that they had bent their course directly that way, they 
opened the fences where the milch goats were keptyfmd dxovtf 
them all out; leaving their goats to strag^le in the woödL- 
whither they pleased, that the savages might uiink fhey were^ 
bred wild; but the rogue who came with them was too eiuiQiii^ 
for that, and gave them an accoiint of it all, fbr they -wAUfe 
directly to the place. ' ' ' \ 

When the two poor frightened men had «ecared their wh^^ 
and goods, they sent the other slave they had o£ the three wto 
came with the woraen, and who was at their place by aocidenti' 
away to the Spaniards with. all speed, to give them the alann^ 
and desire speedy help ; and, in the mean time, they töok their 
arms and what ammunition they had, and retreated towards the- 
place in the wood where their wives were sent; keepisg at« 
distance, yet so that they might see, if possible, which way liie< 
savages took. 

They had not ffone far, bat that irom a rising grotmd 1^ey<' 
could see the litüe army of their enemies come on directly' ta 
their habitation, and, in a monent more, could see all their 'httts 
and household stufP flaming up together, to their great grief tünA 
mortification : for they had a very great loss, to them irretrievaUe, 
at least for some time. They kept their Station for ä while; tili' 
they found the savages, like wild beasts, spread th^mselves all* 
over the place, rumraaging every way and every place they could 
think of, in search of prey; and in particular for the pcople, oP 
whom, now, it plainly appeared they had intelligence. ' y 

The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves not' 
secare where they stood, because it was likely some of the wild' . 
people might come that way, and they might come too maAy^ ■ 
together, thought it proper to make another retreat about half in' 
mile farther; believing, as it afterwards happened, that- the'v 
farther they strolled the iewer would be together. 




ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



201 



'■^''^^ 



SECTION XXXV 1. 



SEVERAL BAVAGES KILLED; THE UEÄf AJNDEH LEAVE TUE ISLAND. — 
A FLJäET PF THEAI AFTERWARÖS ARRIVE, — ^A GENERAL DATTLE. — 
THE 8A VAGES A&£ OVERCOME, ANB TEAlfQULLLITY RE&TORED. 

Treik next halt was at thc cntrance iuto a verv thiclc-grra\m. part 
of die woods* and wbere an old trunk of a tree stood, wbich was 
hollow and vastly lur^e j and m this tree tliey both took Iheir 
statulinf^, resohing; to sce there wlmt mi^ht ofTcr. Thcy bad not 
stood tbere long, before two of tbc savag^es appeared rmininis: 
directly tbat way^ as if tbcy alrcad y bad noticc where tbey stood, 
juid were coming up to attack tbem; and a littlc way farther 
tliey espied tbree more Coming aftcr thcm, and five runre bi: yond 
tbenij all cooiing tbe same way : beaidea wbicb, tbey saw seven 
or eigbt more at a distancc, ninnm^ antjtber way ; for, in a i^ord, 
tbey ran every way, like sportsmen beating' for tbeir ganie, 

Tbe poor men wcre now in great perplexity wbetber tbey 
sboxild stand and keep tbeir posture, or Üy-, but, aft^r a ^€ry 
sbort debate witb tbemselves, tbey comidercd, tbat if tbe savagea 
rangetl tbe coimtry tbus before help came, tbey mig:bt perbaps 
find out tbeir retreat in tlie vvoods, and then all would be lost: 
so tbey resoWed to stand tbem tbere; and if tbey were too niany 
to deal witb^ tben tbey woiild sret up to tbe top of tbe tree^ froni 
whence tbey doubted not to defend tbemiselve^, fire excepted, ag 
long as tbeir amnumilion lasted, tbougb all tbe savages tiiat 
were landed, wbicb was near lifty, werc to attÄck tbem. 

Having reaohed upon tbis, tbey nextconsidered wbetber tbey 



292 ADVENTURES OF 

should fire at the first two, or wait for the three, and so take Üie 
middle party, by which the two and the five that followed would 
be separated : at length they resolved to let the first two pass by, 
unless they should spy them in the tree, and come to attack them. 
The first two savages confirmed them also in this Tesolution, by 
tuming a little from them towards another part of the wood; büt 
the three, and the five after them, came forward directly to the 
tree, as if they had known the Englishmen were there. Seeing 
them come so straight toward them, they resolved to take them 
in a line as they came; and as they resolved to fire but one at a 
time, perhaps the first shot might hit them all three : for which 
purpose, the man who was to fire put three or four small bullets 
into his piece; and having a fair loophole, as it were, from a 
broken hole in the tree, he took a sure aim, without being seen, 
waiting tili they were within about thirty yards of the tree, so 
that he could not miss. 

While they were thus waiting, and the savages came on, they 
plainly saw that one of the three was the runaway savage that 
had escaped from them ; and they both knew him distinctly, and 
resolved that, if possible, he should not escape, though they 
should both fire; so the other stood ready with his piece, that 
if he did not drop at the first shot, he should be sure to have 
a second. But the first was too good a marksman to miss his 
aim ; for as the savages kept near one another, a little behind, 
in a line, he fired, and hit two of them directly : the foremost 
was killed outright, being shot in the head; the second, which 
was the runaway Indian, was shot through the body, and feil, 
but was not quite dead ; and the third had a little Scratch in the 
Shoulder, perhaps by the same ball that went through the body 
of the second; and being dreadfuUy frightened, though not so 
much hurt, sat down upon the ground, screaming and yeUing in 
a hideous manner. 

The five that were behind, more frightened with the noise than 
sensible of the danger, stood still at first : for the woods made 
the sound a thousand times bigger than it really was, the echoes 
rattling from one side to another, and the fowls rising from all 
parts, screaming, and every sort making a different noise, ac- 
cording to their kind; just as it was when I fired the first gun 
that perhaps was ever shot off in the Island. 

However, all being silent again, and they not knowing what 
the matter was, came on unconcerned, tili they came to the place 
where their companions lay, in a condition miserable enough ; 
and here the poor Ignorant creatures, not sensible that they were 
within reach of the same mischief, stood all of a huddle over tiie 
wounded man, talking, and, as may be supposed, inquiring of 
him how he came to be hurt; and who, it is very rationä to 
believe, told them, that a flash of fire first, and immediately after 
that thunder from their gods, had killed those two and wounded 



WtXmUSOTX CRUSOE. ^293 

liim: tliisj I say, is rationiü; for nothing is more certain tlian 
that, as they sfiw no man near them, so they had never heard a 
gun in all tlieir lives, nor so mucli as heam of a giin; neither 
knew tliey any tliingj of killiiig and 'vvounding at a distance with 
fire and buUets: if they had^ one nni^bt reasonably believe they 
would not liave stood so unconcerned in viewing the fate of tlieir 
fellows, without some appTehensions of tlieir owo. 

Our two men, thoup:h, aa they confessed to me, it grieved 
them to be obliged to kill so many poor creatures, who, at the 
same time, had iio notion of their dan^cr ; yet, having them all 
thus in their power, and the firnt having loaded bis piece agnin ^ 
resolved to let fly both together among tbctn ; and singUng out, 
by agreement, whieb to aiin at, tbey sbot together, and killed, 
or very mnch woundeti, foiir of tbem ; tbe fifth» frigbtened even 
to deatb^ though not hurt, feil witb tbe rest ; bo tbat our nien, 
seeing them all fall together, thougbt they had killed them all. 

Tbe belief that tbe aavages were all killed made our two raen 
come boldly oot from the trce before they had cbarsred tbeir 
guns, wbich was a wrong step ; and tbey xvere under some eur- 
prise when they came to tbe place, and found no Icsh than fonr 
of them alive, and of tbem two very bttle burt, and one not at 
all : this obbged them to fall upon them uitb the Stocks of their 
niuslicts ; and first they made snre of the runaway savage, that 
had been tbe cause of all tbe mischief, and of another that was 
hurt in the knee, and put them out of tbeir pain; tben the man 
that was hurt not at all cs^me and kneeled down to tbem, wiüi 
bis two handa held up, and made piteous moans to tbem, by 
gesturcB and sign 3, for bis life^ but conld ntjt say one wortl to 
them that they conld nnderstAnd. Ilowever, they made signs 
to him to Sit d(jwn at tbe foot of a tree hard by; and one of the 
Engliahmen, with a piece of rope twined, whico he had by great 
cbance in his pocket, tied bis two hands beliind him, and there 
they left him : and witb what apeed they conld made after the 
other two, whicb were gone before, fearing tbey, or any more 
of tbem, should find the vvay to tbeir covered place in the woods, 
where their mves, and tbe few goods they had left, lay, They 
eame once in sight of the t^vo men, but it was at a great dis- 
tance; bowever, they had tbe öatisfaction to see them cross over 
a Valley towards tbe sca, quitc tbe contrary way from that wbich 
led to tbeir retreat, whicb tbey were afrai<ä of ; and beinir Batis- 
fied with tbat, they went back to the tree where they left tbeir 
ppisoner, who, as they suppoaed, was delivered by hiB comradca, 
IQT be was gone, and the two piecea of rope-yam, with wbich 
they had bound bim, lay just at tbe foot of tbe tree. 

They were now in aa grcjat concern as before, not knowing 
frhat couTse to take, or bow near the enemy might be, or in 
whai nnmbers : so they resolved to go away to the place where 
their wives were, to see if ßU was well there« and to make them 



294 ADVENTURES OF 

easy, who were in fright enough, to be sare ; for thoogh* tbe 
savages were their own countryiblk, yet they were most terribly 
afraid of them, and perhaps tiie more for the knowledge they 
had of them. 

When they came there, they fonnd the savages had been in 
the Woody and yery near that place, but had not found it : for it 
was indeed inaccessible, by the trees standing so thick, as before, 
unless the persons seeking it had been directed by those that 
knew it, which these did not : they found, therefore, eyery thing 
very safe, only the women in a terrible Mght. While they were 
here, they had the comfort to have seveu of the Spaniards come 
to their assistance : the other ten, with their servants, and old 
Friday, I mean Friday's father, were gone in a body to defend 
their bower, and the com and cattle that was kept there, in case 
the savages should have roved over to that side of the country ; 
but they did not spread so far. With the seven Spaniards came 
one of the three savages who, as I said, were their prisoners 
formerly ; and with them also came the savage whom the English- 
men had left bound band and foot at the tree : for it seems, they 
eame that way, saw the slaughter of the seven men, and un- 
bound the eighth, and brought him along with them ; where, 
however, they were obliged to bind him again, as they had the 
two others who were left when the third ran away. 

The prisoners now began to be a burthen to them ; and they 
were so afraid of their escaping, that they were once resolving 
to kill them all, believing they were under an absolute necessity 
to do so, for their own preservation. However, the Spaniard 
govemor would not consent to it ; but ordered, for the preseut, 
tiiat they should be sent out of the way, to my old cave in the 
Valley, and be kept there, with two Spaniards to guard them, 
and give them food for their subsistence, which was done ; and 
they were bound there band and foot for that night 

When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were so en- 
couraged, that they could not satisfy themselves to stay any 
longer there ; but taking five of the Spaniards and themselves, 
with four muskets and a pistol among them, and two stout 
quarter-staves, away they went in quest of the savages. And 
first they came to the tree where the men lay that had been 
killed; but it was easy to see that some more of the savages had 
been there, for they had attempted to carry their dead men away, 
and had dragged two of them a good way, but had given it over. 
From thence they advanced to the first rising ground, where 
they had stood and seen their camp destroyed, and where they 
had the mortification still to see some of the smoke: but neither 
could they here see any of the savages. They then resolved, 
though with all possible caution, to go for ward, towards their 
ruined plantation ; but a little before they came thither, Coming 
in sight of the sea-shore, they saw plainly the savages all em- 



HOBINSON CRUSOE. 



295 



barked again in tlielr canoes, in order to be gone. Tliey seemed 
sorry, at first^ that there was no way tu come at thera, to givc 
I them n partin g blow ; but^ upon the whole, they were very well 
«atisiied to be rid of them. 

The poor Eiiglialimen being now twice ruined, and all tlieir 

iraprovemeüts deatroyed, tbe rest all agreed to come and lielp 

\ tkem to rebuild, and to assist them witb needfiiJ supplies. Their 

I three couDtrymeii, wbo were not yet noted for hA\mg the least 

I inclination to do any ^ood, yet as soon as tbey beard of it (for 

tbey living remote eaatward, knew uotbing of tbe matter tili all 

•wm over), carae Rnd oJfered their belp and assistance, and did, 

very frieudlvT work for several days, to restore their habitation, 

and make necessarieä for tbem. And thus, in a little time, they 

' "W ere set upon their legs a»:aiu. 

Ahotit two days after tliis, they bad tbe furtbeT satisfaction of 
[•secing three of the savagcs' eanoes eome driving on sbore, and, 
l at some distance from thmia^ two drowned men : by whicb they 
F liad reason to believe that tbey had met witb a atorm at sea, 
i whicb bad overset some of them ; for it had blown very bard tbe 
I ß^bt after they weat olT, 

However» as some migbt miRcarry» so, on tbe other band, 

' enougb of them escapcd to biform the rest^ as well of wbat they 

L had done aa of what had bappencd to them, and to whet them 

I on to another enterprise of the sanie iiature ; which they, it 

' seems, resolved to attempt, ^vith siifncicnt force to carry all 

[ before tbem : for except what the first man bad told them of 

' inhabitants, they could say little of it of their own knowledge, 

ffir tbey never saw oiie man ; and the fellow being killed that 

bad flffirmed it, they had no other witness to confirra it to them. 

It was five or six nioiiths after tbis^ before they beard any 

. BQore of tbe savages, in vvhich time our men were in bopes tbey 

(tad either forgot their furmcr bad luck, or given over bopes of 

^ better; wlien, on a siidden, they were invaded with a most for- 

I midable fleet of no less tban eight-and-twenty canocs, full of 

SAvages, armed with bows and arrows, great clubs, wooden 

I Bword^, and sueh-like cngines of war j and they brought such 

numbers with them, that, in sbort, it put all our people into tlie 

► mtmost consteruation, 

As they came on sbore in tbe evening. and at tbe easternraogt 
jßide of flie Island, our men bad tbat night to consult and con- 
[sider what to da ; and, in the tirst place, knowing tbat tbeir being 
I entirely concealed was tbeir only safety before, and would be 
I mucb more so now, wbile the niimbcr of their enemies was ao 
Igreat, they therefore resolved, first of all, to take dowTi tbe but» 
I wbicb were built for the two En(2^Ushmeii, and drive away their 
Igoat» to the old cave; bccaune tbeysuppoaed the savages would 
[go directly thither» as soon as it was day, to play the old gamo 
over again, though tbey did not now bind witbin two leagnes of 



296 ADVENTURES OF 

it. In the next place, they drove awa^ all the flocks of göats 
they had at the old bower, as I called it, n^liich belonged to the 
Spaniards ; and, in short, left as little appearance of iäiabitants 
any ivhere as was possible : and the next morning early they 
posted themselves, ynth all their force, at the plantation of the 
two men, to Wait for their Coming. As they guessed, so it hap- 
pened : these new invaders leavin^ their oanoes at the east end 
of the island, came ranging along the shore, directly towards the 
place, to the number of two hundred and fifty, as near as our 
men could judge. Our army was but small, indeed; but that 
which was worse, they had not arms for all their number ueither. 
The whole account, it seems, stood thus : first, as to men, seven- 
teen Spaniards, five Englishmen, old Friday, or Friday's father, 
the three slaves taken with the women, who proved very faithful, 
and three other slaves, who lived with the Spaniards. To arm 
tiiese, they had eleven muskets, five pistols, three fowling-pieces, 
five muskets or fowling-pieces which were taken by me firom the 
mutinous seamen whom I reduced, two swords, and three old 
halberds. 

To their slaves they did not give either musket or fusee, but 
thev had every one a halberd, or a long staff, like a quarter-stafT, 
with a great spike of iron fastened into each end of it, and by his 
aide a hatchet ; also every one of our men had a hatchet. Two 
of the women could not be prevailed upon but they would come 
into the fight, and they had bows and arrows, which the Spaniards 
had taken from the savages when the first action happened, 
which I have spoken of, where the Indians fought with one 
another ; and the women had hatchets too. 

The Spaniard govemor, whom I described so often, commanded 
the whole ; and Will Atkins, who, though a dreadftil fellow for 
wickedness, was a most darin g, hold fellow, commanded under 
him. The savages came forward like lions ; and our men, which 
was the worst of their fate, had no advantage in their Situation ; 
only that Will Atkins, who now proved a most useful fellow, 
witn six men, was planted just bebind a small thicket of bushes, 
as an advanced guard, with orders to let the first of them pass 
by, and then fire into the middle of them, and as soon as he had 
fired, to make his retreat as nimble as he could round a part of 
the wood, and so come in behind the Spaniards, where they 
stood, having a thicket of trees before them. 

When the savages came on, they ran straggling about every 
way in heaps, out of all manner of order, and Will Atkins let 
about fifty of them pass by him ; then seeing the rest come in a 
very thick throng, he orders three of his men to fire, having 
loaded their muskets with six or seven bullets a piece, about as 
big as large pistol-bullets. How many they killed or wounded 
they knew not, but the consternation and surprise was inex- 
pressible among the savages ; they were frightened to the last 



ROBFNSOK CRUSOE. 



297 



degree tohear such a dreadfui noise, and sec their meti killed, 
and others liurt, biif; see nobodv that did it; wliea, in the middle 
of tlieir friglit, Will Atkins and bis other tbree let iiy agaiu 
amonji?^ the thickest of tbem ; and in käs tlian a minute the first 
thrce bpinji^ londed again^ gave them a third voUey, 

Had Will Atkins and his men rctii-e^ imraediately, as soon as 
they bad fired, as tliey wer© ordernd to do, or bad the rest of the 
body been at band» to have poured in their shot coutinually, the 
savages had been etfectiially ronted ; for the terrop th&t was 
among tbem <!ame principally from tliiB, viz. that they were 
kiUed hj the gods with tbunder and bgbtnin^, and could see 
nobody that hurt them ; biit Will Atkins, staying to load again, 
discovered the cbeat ; some of the s avages who were at a distanoe 
spying them, came npon them behind ; mid thoug-b Atkins and 
las men fired at them also, tvvo or tbree times, and killed above 
twenty, retiring as fast as they could, yet tbey ununded Atkins 
himaelf, and killed one of his fellow-Englishnit;n, with their 
arrows» a3 they did afterwarda one Spaniard, and one of the 
Indian slavea who came with the women. Tbl 3 slave waa a 
most gallaut fellow, and fonght most desperately^ killing; five of 
them with his own band^ having no weapon bat one of the armed 
staves and a hatebet. 

Our men hcing Üms hard laid at, Atkins wouoded, and two other 
men killed, retreated to a rising ground in the wood ; and the 
Spaniards, after tjring three volley s upon them, retreated also ; 
für their number was so great» and they were so desperate, that 
thongb above fifty of them were killed, and more tban as many 
w ounded, yet they came on in the teetb of onr men^ fearless of 
danger^ and sbot their arrows like a cloud ; and it was observed 
tUat their wonnded men, wbo were not qnjte disabled, were 
made outrageous by their wounds, and fongbt like madmeu. 

Wben our men retreated» they left the Spaniard and the 
EngEshman tbat were killed hebind tbem; and the savages, 
when they came up to tbem, killed them uveragain in awretched 
manner, breaking their arms, legs, and heads, w ith their clubs 
and wooden swords, like true savages ; but finding our men 
were gone, they did not seem to pursue tbem, but dre^v tliem- 
selves up in a ring, which is, it seems, their customi and shouted 
twice^ in tokcn of their victory ; after whicb,they had the morti- 
ficatmn to see several of their woimded men fall^ dying witk the 
inere loss of blood. 

The Spaniard govemor having drawii bis little body up 
together upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he was wounded, 
would have had them march and cbarge again all togctJier at 
once ; but the Spaniard replied, Scnhor Atkins, you see how 
illieir wnuiided men figbt; let them alone tili morning; all the 
~ founded men will he stilT and sore with their wounda, and faint 
"ilflth the loss of blood ; and so we shall have the fewer to engage. 



298 ADYEMTURES OF 

This advice was good ; but Will Atkins veplied merrily^ lliat is 
true, senhor, and so shall I too ; and that is the reason I woukL 
go on while I am wann. — Well, Senhor Atkins, says the 
Spaniard, jou have behaved gallanüy, and done vour part : we 
will fi^ht for youy if you cannot come on ; but I tnink it best to 
stay tili moming : so they waited. 

But as it was a clear moonligbt night, and they found the 
savages in great disorder about their dead and wounded men« 
and a great noise and hurry among them where they lay, tiiey 
afterwards resolved to fall upon them in the night ; especially 
if they could come to give them but one volley before they were 
discovered, which they had a fair opportunity to do ; for one of 
the Englishmen, in whose quarter it was where the fight began, 
led them round between the woods and the seaside westward, 
and then turning short south, they came so near where the 
thickest of them Tay, that, before they were seeii or heard, eight 
of them fired in among them, and did dreadful execution upon 
them ; in half a minute more, eight others fired after them, 
pouring in their small shot in such quantity, that abundance 
were killed and wounded ; and all this while they were not able 
to see who hurt them, or which wav to fly. 

The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition, and 
then divided themselves in three bodies, and resolved to fall in 
among them all together. They had in each body eight persons, 
that is to say, twenty-two and the two women, who, by the way, 
fought desperately. They divided the fire-arms equaUv in each 
party, and so the halberds and staves. They would have had 
the women kept back, but they said they were resolved to die 
with their huaibands. Having thus formed their little army, 
they marched out from among the trees, and came up to the 
teeth of the euemy, shouting and hallooing as loud as they 
could; the savages stood altogether, but were in the utmost 
confusion, hearing the noise of our men shouting firom three 
quarters together: they would have fought if they had seen us; 
ior as soon as we came near enough to be seen, some arrows 
were shot, and poor old Friday was wounded, though not 
dangerously ; but our men gave them no time, but, running up 
to them, fired among them three ways, and then feil in with the 
butt-ends of their muskets, their swords, armed staves, and 
hatchets, and laid about them so well, that, in a word, they set 
up a disraal screaming and howling, flying to save their lives 
which way soever they could. 

Our men were tired with the execution, and killed or mortally 
wounded in the two fights about one hundred and eighty of 
them ; the rest, being frightened out of their wits, scoured 
through the woods and over the hüls, with all the dpeed fear and 
nimble feet could help them to ; and as we did not trouble our- 
selves much to pursue them, they got all together to the seaside 



ROBINSON CKUSOE. 



299 



wlieve tliey latided, and where tlieir canoes lay. But tbeir dis- 
ftsters were not nt an eiid yet; for it blew a terrible storm of wind 
that evening from the sea, so that it ivas impossible for them ta 
go off; nay, thc stonii contimiiog all night, wbon the tide came 
up, their conoes were raost of them driven by tbe surg^e of the 
sea so high upon thc shore, that it required infinite toü to get 
them off j und some of them were even dashed to piec«3 against 
the beach, or against one another. 

Oiir inen, thoiia:h glad of their victory, yet got little rest that 
night ; bat ha\iiig refreshed theraselves as well as they could» 
tliey resolved to marcb to that part of the island where the 
<lpavages were tled, and see what poBture they wert in. This 
iiecessarily led them over the place where tbe fight bad been, 
and where they tbimd several of the poor creatnres not quite 
dead, and yet past recovering life ; a sight disagreeable enough 
to generous minds ; for a triily great man, though obliged by 
the law of battlc to destruy his cnemy, takes no deligbt in bis 
misery, However, there was no need to give atiy Orders in this 
case ; for their owa savages, who were their servants, di^patched 
these poor creatures ^vitli their hatchets. 

At length, they came in view of the place where the more 
miserable remains of the savages* army lay, where therc ap- 
peared abont a hundred still: their poetiire was generally sitting 
upon the ground^ with their knees np towards t^eir mouth» and 
the head put between the two hanos, leaning down upon the 
kneeg. 

When cur men came within two rousket-shota of them, the 
Spaniard govemor ordered two muskets to be fired, without 
baU| to alarm them: tbis he did, that by their cotiotenance he 
might know what to expect, viz. whether they were still in heart 
to fight, or were so heartily beaten as to be dispirited and dis- 
couraged, and so he might manage aecordingly, This stratagem 
took j for as soon as tbe a avages heard the' first gan and saw 
the üash of the second, they started up upon their feet in the 
grcatest consternation imaginable: and as our mcn advanced 
irwülly toward them, they all ran screaming and y ellin g away, 
with a kind of howlin^noise, which our men did not understanä, 
and had never heard oefore : and thus they ran yp the hüls into 
the country. 

At first our men had much mther thc weather had been calm^ 
and they had all gone away to sea ; but they did not then con- 
sider that this might probably have been tfie occasion of their 
Coming again in such multitudcs as not to be reüisted, or, at 
least, to eome so many, and so ol^en, as would quite desolate 
the iäland, and starve them. Will Atkins, therefore, who, nofc- 
withaianding his wound, kcpt always wiih them, proved the best 
oounseilor in this case : his advice was, to take the advantage 
tliat offered, and clap in between tbem and their boats, and ao 

X 



300 ADVENTURES OF 

deprive tliem of the capadty of ever retaming any more to 
plague the Island. 

They consulted long about tMs ; and some were against it, 
for fear of making the wretches fly to the woods and Hye there 
desperate, and so they should have them to hunt like wild 
beasts, be airaid to stir out about their business, and have their 
plantation continually rifled, all their tarne goats destroyed, 
and, in short, be reduced to a life of continual mstress. 

Will Atkins told them they had better have to do with a 
hundred men than with a hundred nations : that as they must 
destroy their boats, so they must destroy the men, or be all of 
them destroyed themselves. In a word, he showed tbem the 
necessity of it so plainly, that they all came into it: so they went 
to work immediately with the boats, and getting some dry wood 
together from a dead tree, they tried to set some of them on 
fire, but they were so wet that they would not bum ; however, 
the fire so burned the upper part, that it soon made them unfit 
for swimming in the sea as boats. When the Indians saw what 
they were about, some of them came running out of the woods, 
and Coming as near as they could to our men, kneeled down 
and cried, "Oa, Oa, Waramokoa," and some other words of their 
language, which none of the others understood any thing of ; 
but as they made pitiful gestures and stränge noises, it was easy 
to understand they be^ed to have their boats spared, and that 
they would be gone, and never come there again. But our men 
were now satisfied that they had no way to preserve themselves, 
or to save their colony, but effectually to prevent any of these 
people from ever going home again : depending upon this, that 
if even so much as one of them got back into their country to 
teil the story, the colony was undone : so that, letting them 
know that they should not have any mercy, they feil to work 
with their canoes, and destroyed them every one that the storm 
had not destroyed before ; at the sight of which the savages 
raised a hideous cry in the woods, which our people heard piain 
enough, after which they ran aboufc the Island like distracted 
men ; so that, in a word, our men did not really know at first 
what to do with them. Nor did the Spaniards, with all their 
prudence, consider, that while they made those people thus 
desperate, they ought to have kept a good guard at the same 
tune upon their plantations ; for though, it is true, they had 
driven away their cattle, and the Indians did not find out their 
main retreat, I mean my old Castle at the hill, nor the cave in 
the Valley, yet they found out my plantation at the bower, and 
pulled it all to pieces, and all the fences and planting about it ; 
trod all the corn ünder foot, tore up the vines and grapes, being 
just then almost ripe, and did our men an inestimable damage, 
though to themselves not one farthing's worth of Service. 

Though our men were able to fight them upon all occasions. 



fiOBINSON CHÜ80E* 



801 



yet tLey were in no condition to pursvre them^ or hunt tliem iip 
and down; for aa they were too nimble of fbot for our men, 
wben they foiind tliem Single, so our men durst not go abroad 
Single, for fear of being surronndt^d with tlieir numbers. The 
best was, they had no weapona ; for though they had bows, they 
had 110 arrows left, nor any materiak to raake any ; nor hßd 
tlicy any edge-tool or weapon among; them, 

The e\trcmity and distress tbey were reduced to was great 
and indeed deplorable; but, at the same time^ our men were 
also brought to very had clrcumstanccs by them : for though 
thpir retreats were preservcd, yet tbeir pro^ision was destroyed, 
and tbeir har\'cst spoiled; and what to do, or which way to turn 
themselvesi thoy knew not. The only rcfuge they had now was, 
the stock of cattle they had in the Valley by the cave, and sorae 
little corn which grew there, and the plantatiun of the three 
Englishmen, Will Atkini; and his comrades, who were now re- 
duced to two ; onc of thera being killetl by an airow, which 
Struck him on the side of his head, just under ibe temples, so 
Üiat he never spoke more : and it wag very remarkable, that 
this was the same barbaroua fellow that cut the poor savage 
slave witb his hatchet» and who aflerwards intended to have 
raurclered the Spaniards* 

I looked lipon their cage to have been^worse at this time than 
mine was at any time, after I first discovered the grains of barley 
and rice, and got into the manner of planting and raising my 
com, and my tarne cattle : for now they had, as I may saj, a 
hnndred wolves npon the Island, which woidd de von r every thing- 
they couid come at, yet couid be hardly come at themselves, 

When tbey saw what tbeir circumstances were, the firat thing 
they concluded was, that they would, if possible, drive them up 
to the farther part of the islaud» soiitb-west, that if any more 
savages came on shore they might not find one anoth er: then 
that they would daüv bunt and harasa them, and kill as many 
of them as they could come at, tili they had reduced tbeir 
number; and ifthey could at last tama thera, and bring them to 
any thing, they would give thera corn, and teach them how to 
plant, and live npon tbeir daily laboiir. 

In Order to this, they so followed them, and so terrified them 
with their guns, that in a few days, if any of thera fired a gnn at 
an Indian, ifbe did not hit him, yet he wonld faU dowTi for fear; 
and so dreadfuUy frightened they were, that they kept out of 
sight fartlicr and farther ; tili, at last, our men following them, 
and almost every day killing or wounding some of them, they 
kept up in the woods or hollow placea so mucb, that it reduced 
them to tho utmost misery for want of food ; and raany were 
afterwards found dead in the woods, without any hurt, abso- 
Itttely starved to deatb. 

When our men found thia, it made their hearts relent, and pity 
X2 



302 ADVENTÜRES OP 

moyed tliem, especially the Spaniard govemor, who was the most 
gentleman-like, generous-minded man that I ever met witli in 
my life ; and he proposed, if possible, to take one of them alive, 
and bring him to understand what they meant, so &,r as to be 
able to act as interpreter, and go among them, and see if they 
might be brought to some conditions that might be dependä 
upon, to save their lives and do us no härm. 

It was some while before any of them could be taken ; but 
being weak and half-starved, one of them was at last surprised 
and made a prisoner. He was sollen at first, and woidd neither 
eat nor drink ; but finding himself kindly used, and victuals 
given him, and no violence offered him, he at last grew tractable, 
and came to himself. They brought old Friday to him, who 
talked often with him, and told him how kind the others would 
be to them all ; that they would not only save their lives, but 
would give them part of the island to live in, provided they would 
give satisfaction that they would keep in their own bounds and 
not come beyond it to injure or prejudice others ; and that they 
should have com given them to plant and make it grow for their 
bread, and some bread given them for their present subsistence; 
and old Friday bade the fellow go and talk with the rest of bis 
countrymen, and see what they said to it ; assuring them, that 
if they did not agree immediately, they should be all destroyed. 

The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in 
number to about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the 
first ofifer, and begged to have some food given them ; upon which, 
twelve Spaniards and two Englishmen, well armed, with three 
Indians slaves and old Friday, marched to the place where they 
were. The three Indians slaves carried them a large quantity of 
bread, some rice boiled up to cakes and dried in the sun, and 
three live goats ; and they were ordered to go to the side of a 
hill, where they sat down, ate their provisions very thankfuUy, 
and were the most faithful fellows to their words that could be 
thought of; for, except when they came to beg victuals and 
directions, they never came out of their bounds : and there they 
lived when I came to the island, and I went to see them. 

They had taught them both to plant com, make bread, breed 
tame goats, and milk them : they wanted nothing but wives, 
and they soon would have been a nation. They were confined 
to a neck of land, surrounded with high rocks behind them, and 
lying piain towards the sea before them, on the south-east corner 
of the island. They had land enough, and it was very good and 
fruitful ; about a mile and a half broad, and three or four miles 
in length. 

Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such as I made 
for myself, and gave among them twelve hatchets and three or 
four knives ; and there they lived, the most subjected innooent 
creatures that ever were heard of 



ROBINSON CHÜSOE. 



303 



After tliis, tte colony eujoyed a perfect tranqiiillity with re- 
«pect to the savages tifi I came tarevisit tbera, which was about 
two years afler; not but that, now and then, some canoes of 
savages came od sliore for their triuraplialj uiinatural feasts ; but 
as Ihey were of several nations, and perbaps liad never heard of 
thüse that came before, or the reason of it, they did not make 
any searcb or inquiry after their countrymea; and if tbey had, 
it would bave been very bard to bave found tbem out. 

Thus, 1 tbink, I bave ^ven a füll aecount of all tbat happened 
to tbem tili my return, at least^ that was worth notice. The 
Indians or savages were wonderfolly civilized by tJiem, and tbey 
frequently went among tbem; but forbade, on pain of deatb, any 
one of the ludians comms? to theni, because they would not bave 
tbeir settlemeut betrayed again. One thing was very remark- 
able, VIS!, tbat they taught tbe savages to make wicker-work, or 
baskets, but tbey soon outdid their mastera; for tbey made 
fibundaiice of inost ingenious tliing^s in wirker-work, particularly 
Borta of baakets, sieves, birdcages, cupboards, &c.; as also 
_ aira to sit ou, stooU, bcds, couches, and abundance of other 
things, being very ingemous at such work, when they were oocä 
put in tbe way of it. 

My Coming was a particular relief to tbese peoplcj because wo 
fornished tbem witb knivcs, gcis&tors, spades, sbovels, pick-axes, 
and all tbings of tbat kiiid ^^liich they could want. Witb the 
belp of those tools they were so very bandy, tbat they came at 
last to build up their buts, or houses, very handsomely, raddlin^ 
or working it up like basket-work all the way round : which was 
a very extraordinary piece of ingenuity, aiid looked very odd, 
but was an exceeding good fence, as well againstheat as against 
all sorts of vermin ; and our men were so taken witb it, that they 
^ot the wild aavagea to corae aud do the like for tbem; so tbat 
when I came to see the two EngUabmeu's colonies, they looked, 
at a diatance» as if they all lived like bees in a bive. As for Will 
Atkins, who was now become a very induatriouB, iiseful, and 
Bober fellow, lie had made Mmself such a tent of basket-work as, 
I believe, was never secn : it waa one bundred and twenty paces 
round on the outsidc, as I measured by my stepg; the walls were 
&8 close worked as a basket, in panels or Squares of thirty-two 
in nuniber, aud very strong, Standing about sevcn feet high ; 
in the middle was auotber not above twenty-two paces round, 
but built stronger, bemg octagon in ita form, and in the eight 
cornera atood eight very strong posts; round tbe top of which 
he laid strong picces, pinned together with wooden pins, frora 
which he raised a pyramid for a roofof eight rafters, very hand- 
some» I assure you, and joined together very well, though he 
had no naila, and only a few iron spikes, which he made himself 
too, out of the old iron that I had lett there; and, indeed^this fellow 
ghowed abundance of ingenuity in several things wmch he had 



304 ADVENTÜEES OF 

no knowledge of : he made him a forge, with a pair of wooden 
hello WS to blow the fire; he made himself charcoal for his work; 
and he formed out of the iron crows a middling good anvil to 
hammer upon : in this manner he made many things, but espe^ 
cially hooks, staples and spikes, bolts and hinges. — But, to 
return to the house. After he had pitched the roof of bis inner- 
most tenty he worked it up between the rafters with basket-work, 
so firm, and thatched that over again so ingeniously with rice- 
straw, and over that a large leaf of a tree, wmch covered the top, 
that his house was as dry as if it had been entiled or slated. 
Indeed, he owned that the savages had made the basket-work 
for him. The outer circuit was covered as a lean-to, all round 
this inner apartment, and long rafters lay from the thirty-two 
angles to the top posts of the inner house, being about twenty 
feet distant; so that there was a space like a walk within 
the outer wicker wall and without the inner, near twenty feet 
Wide. 

The inner place he partitioned off with the same wicker-work, 
but much fairer, and divided into six apartments, so that he had 
six rooms on a floor, and out of every one of these there was a 
door; first into the entry, or coming mto the main tent, «mother 
door into the main tent, and another door into the space or 
walk that was round it: so that walk was also divided into six 
equal parts, which served not only for a retreat, but to störe up 
any necessaries which the family had occasion for. These six 
Spaces not taking up the whole circumference, what other apart- 
ments the outer circle had were thus ordered: — As soon as you 
were in at the door of the outer circle, you had a short passage 
straight before you to the door of the inner house: but on either 
side was a wicker partition, and a door in it, by which you went 
first into a large room, or storehouse, twenty feet wide, and about 
thirty feet long, and through that into another, not quite so long : 
so that in the outer circle were ten handsome rooms, six of which 
were only to be come at through the apartments of the inner 
tent, and served as closets or retiring rooms to the respective 
Chambers of the inner circle ; and four large ,warehouses, or bams, 
or what you please to call them, which went through one another, 
two on either band of the passage, that led through the outer 
door to the inner tent. 

Such a piece of basket-work, I believe, was never seen in the 
World, nor a house or tent so neatly contrived, much less so built. 
In this great bee-hive lived the three families, that is to say. Will 
Atkins and his companion ; the third was killed, but his wife re- 
mained, with three children, for she was, it seems, big with chüd 
when he died : and the other two were not at all backward to 
give the widow her füll share of every thing, I mean as to their 
corn, milk, grapes, &c., and when they killed a kid, or found a 
turtle on the shore ; so that they all lived well enough; though« 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 'SM 

it was true* tbey were not so induatrious as the otber two, as 
has been observed already. 

Odc tbing, brvwever, caanot be omitted, viz, tbat, as for reli^on, • 
I do not know tbat tbere waa anytbing of tbat kind araoug tbem : 
they often, indeed, put oue another in miiid tbat tbere was a God, 
by tbc very common metbod of seamen, \iz, sweariii": by bis 
name : nor were tbe'ir poor igiiorant savage wivcs miicb better 
for baviiig been married to Cbristians, aa we inust call tbem : fbr 
as tbey knew very little of God tbemselvea, so tbey were utterly 
incapable of entering into any discourse witb tbcir wivea about 
a God, or to talk anytbing to tbem concerning religion. 

The utmost of all the improvemcnt wliicb 1 can say tbe Tvives 
had made firora tbem was, tbat tbc}^ bad taiigbt tbem to speak 
En^liäb prctty well ; and most of tbeir cliildren, wHcb were near 
twenty in all, were taugbt to speak Engliab too, from tbeir first 
leaming to speak, thougb tbey at first spoke it m a very broken 
manncr, like tbeir mothers. Tbere was none of these cbildren 
above six years old wben I came tbitlier, for it waa not much 
above sevcn years tbat they bad fetcbed tbese five aavage ladies 
over; but they had all been prctty fruitfitl, for tliey bad all cbildron, 
more or lesa; I think tbe cook'amates wih was bigof ber sixtb 
cbild; and tbe motbers were all a good sort of well-governed, 
quiet, laboriotis womeu, modest and decent, belpfui to one 
another, miirbty observant and subject to tbeir masters (I cannot 
call tbem busband s), and wanted nothing: but to be well instrncted 
in tbe Christian relii^ionT and to be legally married ; botb whicb 
were bappily brougbt aboiit aftcTAvards by my means, or, at 
least, in consequence of my Coming nmong tbem. 



806 



ADYBNTURES OF 




SECTION XXXVII. 



ROBINSON LEARNS FROM THE SPANIARDS THE DIFFICÜLTIES THEt 
HAD TO ENCOÜNTER. — ^HE FÜRNISHES THE PEOPLE WITH TOOLS, 
ETC. — ^THE FRENCH ECCLESIASTIC. 

Having thus given an account of the colony in general, and 
pretty much of my runagate English, I must say something of the 
Spamards, who were the main body of the family, and in whose 
Story there are some incidents also remarkable enough. 

I had a great many discourses witli them about their circum- 
stances when they were among the savages. They told me readily 
that they hadno instances to give of their application or ingennity 
in that coiintry ; that they were a poor, miserable, dejected hand- 
fnl of people; that if means had been put into their hands, yet 
they had so abandoned themselves to despair, and so sunk under 
the weight of their misfortunes, that they thought of nothing but 
starving. One of them, a grave and sensible man, told me he 
was convinced they were in the wrong; that it was not the part 
of wise men to give themselves up to ueir misery, but always to 
take hold of the helps which reason ofifered, as well for present 
Support as for fiiture deliverance : he told me that grief was the 
most senseless insignificant passion in the world^ for that it re- 
garded only things past, which were generally impossible to be 
reoalled, or to be remedied, but had no views of things to come, and 
had no share in anything that looked like deliverance, but rather 
added to the affliction than proposed a remedy ; and upon this he 
repeated a Spanishproverb, which though I cannot repeat in just 



BOGINSOK CRUSOE. 



S07 



the aame words tliat he spoke it in, yet I remember I made it into 
&J1 Englisli proverb of my own, tkus : 

In trouble 1o be troubled» 

I» to hüTe your trouble doubled. 

He ran oa tlien in remarks upon all tlie little improvemeTits I 
bad raatle in my solitude ; xny unwearied applicadon, os he callcd 
it - and how I bad made a condition which iii its circumstances 
tTas at first much worse than tbeirs, a thousand times raore 
happy than tbeirs was, even uow whea they were all tosrether. 
He told me it was remarkable that Englishmen bad a greater 
preseace of mind, in their distress, than any peoplc tbat ever he 
met with ; tbat their unhappy nation and the Portug^uese wcre 
the vf orst meu in the world to strnggle with misfortunea ; for 
that their first step in dangers, attei' the common efibrts were 
over» was to despair, lie down imder it, and che, without ronsing 
their thouehts up to proper remedies for escapc. 

I iold bim their caae and mine differed exceedingly ; that 
they were cast upon the sshore without neceasaries, without 
supply of foodj or present sustenance tili they coiild provide it; 
that, it was true, I bad thia disadvantage and discomfort, that 
I was alone ; but then tbe siipplies I bad pro^identially throvra 
into ray hands, by tbe unexpcctcd driving of the ship on shore, 
was siich a belp as wouUl have encouraged any creatiirc in the 
workl to bave applied bimself as I bad done. Senbor, says the 
Spaniard, bad we poor Spaniards been in yonr case, we sbould 
never bave got half thoae thinga out of the ahip, as you did : 
iiay, says he, we sbould never bave found means to bave ^ot a 
raft to carry thera, or to have got tbe raft on shore without 
boat or sail; and how much less sbould we bave done if any 
of US had been alone ! Well, I desired him to abate bis com- 
pUment, and go on with tbe history ol' their Coming on shore^ 
"where they lauded. He told rae they unhappUy Janded at a 
place wbere there were people without provisions ; whereas, 
bad they bad tbe common sense to have put off to sea again, 
and gone to another Island a little farther, they had found pro- 
visions, though without people ; there beiug an island tbat way, 
as they had been told, whepe there were provisions, thougb no 
people ; that in to say^ that the Spaniards of Trinidad had fr©* 
qnently been there» and had filled the island with goats and 
hogs at aeveral times, where they bad bred in such multitudea, 
and wbere turtle and seafowls were in such plenty, that they 
could have been in no want of flesh, though they had found no 
bread ; whereas here, they were only snstained with a few roota 
and herbs, which they understood not and which bad no aub- 
fitance in them, and which the inhabitantg gave thera spai-in^^ly 
enough; and wbo could treat them no better, un less they would 
turn cannibals^ and eat men a flesb, which was tho great dainty 
of their country. 



308 ADVENTÜRES OP 

They gave me an account how many ways they strove tö 
civilize the savages they were with, and to teach them rational 
customs in the ordinary way of living, bat in yain ; and how 
they retorted it upon them, as unjust, that they, who came there 
for assistance and support, should attempt to set up for in- 
structors of those that gave them food ; intimating, it seems, 
that none should set up for the instructors of others bnt those 
who could live without them. 

They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were 
driven to ; how sometimes they were many days without any 
food at all, the island they were upon being inhabited by a sort 
of savages that 'lived more indolent, and for that reason were 
less supplied with the necessaries of life, than they had reason 
to believe others were in the same part of the world ; and yet 
they found that these savages were less ravenous and voracious 
than those who had better supplies of food. Also they added, 
they could not but see with what demonstrations of wisdom and 
goodness the governing providence of God directs the events of 
things in the world ; which, they said, appeared in their circum- 
stances ; for if, pressed by the hardships they were under, and 
the barrenness of the country where they were, they had searched 
after a better to live in, they had then been out of the way of 
the relief that happened to them by my means. 

They then gave me an account how the savages whom they 
lived among expected them to go out with them into their wars; 
and, it was true, that as they had fire-arms with them, had they 
not had the disaster to lose their ammunition, they should have 
been serviceable not only to their friends, but have made them- 
selves terrible both to friends and enemies ; but being without 
powder and shot, and yet in a condition that they could not in 
reason deny to go out with their landlords to their wars, so 
when they came into the field of battle, they were in a worse 
condition than the savages themselves ; for they had neither 
bows nor arrows, nor could they use those the savages gave 
them : so they could do nothing but stand still, and be wounded 
with arrows, tili they came up to the teeth of their enemy; 
and then, indeed, the three halberds they had were of use to 
them ; and they would often drive a whole little army before 
them with those halberds, and sharpened sticks put into the 
muzzles of their muskets : but that, for all this, they were 
sometimes surrounded with multitudes, and in great danger 
from their arrows, tili at last they found the way to make 
themselves large targets of wood, which they covered with 
skins of wüd beasts, whose names they knew not, and these 
covered them from the arrows of the savages : yet, notwith- 
standing these, they were sometimes in great danger ; and five 
of them were once knocked down together with the clubs of 
the savages, which was the time when one of them was takea 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



309 



prisoner, tliat is to say, the Spaniard wbom I Lad relieved : 
that ftt first they thought be Lad Leen killed j but wiien tLey 
afler\\'ards Leard Le was taken prisoner, they were under tLe 
greatest grief imaginaLle, and would willingly have all veutured 
their lives to Lave rcecucd bim, 

They told rae tLat TvLen they were so knocked down, tbe rest 
oftbeir Company rescued tbem, and stood over tliem fighting tili 
tbey Tvere come. to tbemselves, all but Lim wbo tLey thought 
bad bi3ßn dead ; and tLen tLey made theinvay mtL tLeir Lalberds 
and pieces, st^nding ulose togctLer in a line, tLrough a body of 
above a tbousand savages, beating down all tLat cnme in tLeir 
way, ^ot tbe victory over tLeir enemies, but to their great aor- 
ToWf because it was witb tbe loss of tLeir IViead, wbom tbe otLer 
party, finding bim alive, carried off, with some otbera, as I gave 
an account before. 

They described most aifectiorntely bow tLey were Burprised 
witL joy at tLe return of tLeir friend and companion in misery, 
wbo» tLey thcmglit, Lad beeil devoured by wild beasta of. tbe 
worst kind, vix. by Avild nicn ; and yct Low mure and more tbey 
were surpriscd witL tLe account Le gave thera of bis ernind, and 
that tLere was a Christian in any place near, mucL more one tLat 
was able, and bad humatiity enougb, to contribute to their 
deltverance, 

TLey deBcrihed Low tLey were astonisbed at tbe sigLt of tLe 
relief I scnt tLem, and at tLc üppearance of loaves of bread, tbings 
they Lad not seen since their Coming to tLat miserable place; Low 
often tLey crossed it and blesscd it as bread sent from Heaven; 
Änd what a reviving cordial it was to their spirits to taste it, as 
also the other tbings I Lad eent for their supply ; and, aflcr all, 
they woiild have told me sometLing of tLe joy tLey were in at tLe 
Bignt of a boat and pilots, to cj*rry tbem away to tLe person and 
place from wLence all tLese new comforts came, biit it was ira- 
possihle to express it by words, for their excessive joy naturally 
driving tbem to ynbecoming extravaganceSt tbey had no way to 
describe tbem, but by teUing nie they bordered upon lunäcy, 
having no way to give vent to their passions suitable to the sense 
that was lipon tbem ; that in some it worked one way, and in 
aome an other ; and tLat some of tbem, tLrough a surprisc of joy, 
would hurst into tears, o thera be stark mad, and otliers imnie- 
diately faint This dbcourse extremely affceted me, and called 
to my mind Friday's ecstasy whcn he met Lia fntber, and the 
poor people's ecstasy wben I took them up at sea after tLeir 
ahip was on fire ; the joy of tbe raate of the ship wben he fouud 
himaelf delivered in tbe place wbere Le expected to perish; and 
my own jr>y, wben, ai\er twenty-eigbt years* captivity, I found 
ft good sbip ready to carry me to iny owii country. AH tbeae 
thmga maae me more sensible of the relatiun of thesc poor men, 
and more affected witL it. 



310 ADVENTURES OF 

Having thas given a view of the State of tliings as I found 
them, I must relate the heads of what I did for tliese people, 
and the condition in which I left them. It was their opinion, 
and mine too, that they would be troubJed no more with the 
savages, or, if they were, they would be able to cut them off, if 
they were twice as many as before; so they had no concem 
about that. Then I entered into a serious discourse with the 
Spaniard, whom I call govemor, about their stay in the island ; 
for as I was not come to carry any of them offi so it would not 
be just to carry off some and leave others, who, perhaps, would 
be unwilling to stay if their strength was diminished. On the 
other band, I told äiem I came to establish them there, not to 
remove them : and then I let them know that I had brought 
with me relief of sundry kinds for them ; that I had been at a 
ereat charge to supply them with all things necessary, as well 
for their convenience as their defence ; and that I had such and 
such particular persons with me, as well to increase and recruit 
their number, as by the particular necessary employments which 
they were bred to, oelng artificers, to assist them in those things 
in which at present they were in want. 

They were all together when I talked thus to them ; and before 
I delivered to them the stores I had brought, I asked them, one 
by one, if they had entirely forgot and buried the first animosities 
that had been among them, and would shake hands with one 
another, and engage in a strict friendship and union of interest, 
that so there might be no more misunderstandings and jealousies. 

Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good humour, 
Said, they had met with affliction enough to make them all 
sober, and enemies enough to make them all friends ; that, for 
his part, he would live and die with them; and was so far 
from designing anything against the Spaniards, that he owned 
they had done nothing to him but what his own mad humour 
made necessary, and what he would have done, and perhaps 
worse, in their case ; and that he would ask them pardon, if I 
desired it, for the foolish and brutish things he had done to 
them, and was very willing and deslrous of living in terms of 
entire Mendship and union with them, and would do anything 
that lay in his power to convince them of it : and as for going 
to England, he cared not if he did not go thither these twenty 
years. 

The Spaniards said they had, indeed, at first disarmed and 
excluded Will Atkins and his two countrjonen for their ill 
conduct, as they had let me know, and they appealed to me 
for the necessity they were under to do so ; but that Will 
Atkins had behaved himself so bravely in the great fight they 
had with the savages, and on several occasions since, and had 
showed himself so faithful to, and concerned for, the general 
interest of them all, that they had forgotten all that was paat. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



311 



and tliouglit he Bierited aa irmdi to bc tnisted with arms, and 
supplied with necessaries, as any of then : and they had testified 
their satisfaction in him, by conimitting the command to Mm, 
next to the governor Mmself ; aiid as fhey bad entire confidencu 
in him, and all bis coantrymen, so tbey acknowledged they hatl 
racritedthatcontidence by all themethods tliat honest men could 
merit to be valued and trusted ; and they most beartily embraced 
the occaaion of gi\ing me thia asäurance, that they would never 
have any inte res t separate from one another, 

Upon these frank and open declarations of friendsbip, "we 
appointed the ncxt day to dine all together ; and, indüed, we 
made a splendid feast, I cansed the ship's cook and liis mate 
to come on shore and dress our dinnei% and the old cook'a 
mate we had on ehore nssisted. We brought ou shore six pieces 
of good bcef, and four picces of pork, out of the sbip's provision, 
with OUT puncbbovvl, and matcrials to fiU it ; and, m particiüar, 
I gave them ten bottles of French claretj and ten bottles of 
English beer: thin^s that neiüier the Snaniarda nor the Engliah 
had tasted for raany years, and whicn, it may be gnpposed, 
they were very gl ad of. The Spaniards added to our feast five 
whole kids, which the cooka roasted : and tbree of them were 
sent, covered up dose, on board the ship to the seamen, 
that they migbt feast on fresh mcat from on shore, as we did 
with their salt meat from on board. 

After this feast, at whit^h m e wcre verv innocently merry, I 
brought out my cargo of goods: wherein ttat there might be no 
dispute about tlividing, I showed them that there was a sufficiency 
Ibr thera all^ desiring that they might aU take an eqaal 
quantity of the gooda that were for wearing: that is to say, 
equal when made up. A«, first, I distributed linen Bufficient 
to make every one of them four shirts, and, at the Spaniards* 
reqnest, aflcrwards made them up six ; these were exceedingly 
comfortable to them, ha\dng been what, as I may say, they had 
long since forgot the nse of, or \\ hat it was to wear them. I al- 
lotted the thin English stuifs, whicb I mentioned before, to make 
every one a light coat likc a frock, which I judged fittcst for the 
heat of the season, cool and loose ; and onJered that whencver 
they decayed they should make more, as they thought fit : the 
like for pumps, shoea, stockings, hats, &c. 

I caimot express what pleasure, what satisfaction, sat upon 
the countenances of all these poor men, when they aaw the care 
I bad taken of them, and how well I had furnished them. They 
told me I was a father to them ; and that having stich a corre- 
apondent aa I was in so rcmote a part of the world, it would 
make them forget that they were left in a desolate place; and 
they all voluntarily engaged to me not to leave the place with- 
out ray consent. 

Then I presented to them the people I had brought with 



312 ADYENTURES OF 

me, particularly the tailor, the smith, and tlie two carpenters, 
all of them most necessary people ; but;, above all, my general 
artificer, than whom tbey coula not name anything Üuit was 
more useful to them : and the tailor, to show Ms concem for 
them, went to work immediately, and, with my leave, made 
them every one a shirt, the first thing he did ; and, which was 
still more, he taught the women not only how to sew and stitch, 
and use the needle, but made them assist to make the shirts for 
their husbands, and for all the rest. 

As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how useM they 
were ; for they took to pieces all my clumsv, nnhandy things, 
and made them clever convenient tables, stools, bedsteads, cup- 
boards, lockers, shelves, and everything they wanted of that 
kind. But, to let them see how nature made artificers at first, 
I carried the carpenter to see Will Atkins's basket-house, as 
I called it : and they both owned they never saw an instance of 
such natural ingenuity before, nor anything so regulär and so 
handily built, at least of its kind : and one of them, when he 
saw it, after musing a good while, tuming about to me, I am 
sure, says he, that man has no need of us ; you need do nothing 
but give him tools. 

Then I brought,them out all my störe of tools, and gave every 
man a digging-spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had no 
harrows or ploughs ; and to every separate place a pick-axe, a 
crow, a broad axe, and a saw ; always appointing, that as often 
as any were broken or wom out, they should be supplied, with- 
out grudging, out of the general stores that I left benind. Nails, 
Staples, hinges, hammers, cbisels, knives, sdssors, and all sorts 
of iron-work, they had without tale, as they required : for no 
man would take more than he wanted, and he must be a fool 
that would waste or spoil them on any account whatever ; and, 
for the use of the smith, I left two tons of unwrought iron for a 
supply. 

My magazine of powder and arms which I brought them was 
such, even to profusion, that they could not but rejoice at them; 
for now they could march as I used to do, with a musket upon 
each Shoulder, if there was occasion ; and were able to fight a 
thousand savages, if they had but some little advantages of 
Situation, which also they could not miss, if they had occasion. 

I carried on shore with me the young man whose mother 
was starved to death, and the maid also : she was a sober, well 
educated, religious young woman, and behaved so inoffensively, 
that every one gave her a good word; she had, indeed, an 
unhappy life with us, there being no woman in the ship but 
herseif, but she bore it with patience. After a while, seeing 
things so well ordered, and in so fine a way of thriving upon 
my island, and considering that they had neither business nor 
acquaintance in the East Indies, or reason for taking so long a 



KOßlNSON CRUSOE. 



313 



Toyage; I say, considering all thia, both of tliem came to me, 
and desired I would give them leave lo remam oo tlie Island, and 
be entered araong tny family, as they called iL l ag^reed to thia 
readiiy ; and they had a little plot of ground allotted to theiii, 
where (hey had three tents or houses set up, Burroundcd with a 
basket-work, paUiBadoed like Atkins's, a^joining to his planta- 
tion. Thcir tents were contrived so tliat they had each of them 
a rooni apart to lodge in, and a middk tent/like a great atore- 
liouse, to lay their goods in, and to eat and drink in. And now 
the otlier two Englislmien removed tlieii* habitation to the same 
place; and so the Island was divided into tkree colonies, and no 
more, riz. the Spaniards, wilh old Friday, and tlie ütst senants, 
»t my old habitation under the hill, whieb was, in a word, tlie 
capital citj' j and where they had so enlarged aod extended their 
works, as well under aa on the outaide of the hiD, that they lived, 
though perteetly coucealed» yet füll at large» Never was ihero 
such a httle citj' in a wood, and so hid, in any part of the world ; 
for I venly beheve a thousand men might have ratiged the Island 
a month, and, if they had not known there was such a thing» and 
looked on purpose for it, they would not have found it ; for the 
trees stood so thick and so elosCj and grew so fast-woven oue 
into anoLher,that nothing but cutting them ck)wn lirstcould dis- 
cover the place, eiLcept tbe only two narrow entrances where 
they went m and out couH be found, whicli was not very easy : 
one of them was close down at the water's edge, on the side of 
the crcek, and it waa aflcrwards above two hundrcd yards to the 
place ; and the other was np a ladder at twicc, as I have already 
Ibrmerly descrihed it ; and they had also a large wo od thick- 
planted on the top of the hill, containing above an acre, which 
grew apace, and concealed the place from all discovery there, 
with only onc narrow^ place hetween two trees, not easily to be 
discovered, to enter on that side, 

The other colony was that of Will AtkinSj where there were 
four famdies of Englishmen, I mean those 1 hsd left there, with 
their wives and children ; three savages that were slaves ; the 
widow and the cMldren of tJio Enghshman that waa killed ; the 
young man and the maid ; and, by the way, we made a wile of 
her befure we went away. There was also the two carpenteri 
and the tailor, wbom I brought \Tith nie for them j also the smith, 
iho was a very necessary man to them, especially as a gnn- 

ttith, to take care of their anna ; and niy other man, whora I 
^ÄÜed Jack-of-all-tradea, who w aa in himaelf as good almoat ns 
twenty men ; for he was not only a very iagcnious fellow, but 
a very merry fellow; and betöre l went away wc married bim 
to the honest maid that eame wiih the youth m the bhip I men- 
tioned before. 

And now I spcak of marrying, it bnngs me naturally to say 
BOiaethLDg of the French eccleälaätic that I had brought with me 



2fl4 ADVENTÜRES OP 

ont of the ship's crew whom I took up at sea. It is tnie, Üub 
man was a Roman, and perhaps it miay give offence to some 
hereafter, if I leave anythmg exttaordinary upon record of aman 
whom, before I begin, I must (to set him out in just colours) 
represent in terms very mucb to bis disadvantage, in tbe account 
of Protestants : as, first, tbat be was a Papist ; secondly, a Popisb 
priest; and tbirdly, a Frencb Popisb priest Bat justice demands 
of me to give bim a due cbaracter ; and I must say, be was a 
grave, sober, pious, and most religious person ; exact in bis life, 
extensive in bis charity, and exemplary in abnost every tbing 
be did. Wbat tben can any one say against being very sensible 
of tbe value of sucb a man, notwitbstanding Ms profession? 
tbougb it may be my opinion, perbaps, as well as tbe opinion of 
otbers wbo sball read tbis, tbat be was mistaken. 

Tbe first bour tbat I began to converse witb bim after'be bad 
agreed to go witb me to the East Indies, I found reason to deligbt 
exceedingly in bis conversation ; and be first began witb me 
about rebgion in tbe most obliging manner imaginable. Sir, 
says be, you bave not only under God (and at tbat be crossed 
bis breast) saved my Ufe, but you bave admitted me to go this 
voyage in your sbip, and by your obliging civility bave taken 
me into your family, giving me an opportunity of free conver- 
sation. Now, sir, you see by my babit wbat my profession is, 
and I guess by your nation wbat yours is ; I may tbink it is my 
duty, and doubtless it is so, to use my utmost endeavours, on aU 
oecasions, to bring all tbe souls I can to tbe knowledge of tbe 
truth, and to embrace tbe catbolic doctrine ; but as I am bere 
under your permission, and in your family, 1 am bound, in jus- 
tice to your kindness, as well as in decency and good manners, 
to be under your government ; and tberefore I sball not, vritbout 
your leave, enter into any debate on tbe points of religion in 
wbicb we may not agree, fartber tban you sball give me leave. 

I told bim bis carriage was so modest, tbat I could not but 
acknowledge it ; tbat it was true, we were sucb people as tbey 
called beretics, but tbat he was not tbe first catbolic I bad con- 
versed witb witbout falling into inconveniences, or carrying tbe 
questions to any, beight in debate ; tbat be sbould not find bim- 
self tbe worse used for being of a different opinion fiom us ; and 
if we did not converse witbout anv dislike on either side, it sbould 
be bis ßiult, not ours. 

He replied, that be thought all our conversation migbt be 
easily separated from disputes ; tbat it was not bis business to 
cap principles witb every man be conversed witb ; and tbat be 
rather desired me to converse witb him as a gentleman tban as 
a religionist ; and tbat, if 1 would give bim leave at any time to 
discourse upon religious subjects, be would readily comply witb 
it, and tbat be did not doubt but I would allow bim also to de- 
fend bis own opinions as well as be could ; but tbat, witbout my 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



315 



re, "he would not break in npon me with any such thing. He 
told me farther^ that he woidd not cease to do all that bccame 
hira, in liis office as a priest as well as a private Christian, to 
prociire the good of the ship, and tlie aafety of all that was in 
hv.T; and thoiigb, perhaps, wo would not join witli htm, and he 
conld not pray with ns, he boped he might pray for us» whicb 
he would do upon all occasiona. In tbis manner we converaed ; 
and, as he was of the most ohliging, gentleraan-like behaviour, 
so he was, if I may be allowed to say so, a man of good sense, 
andj as l bebeve^ of great iearning, 

Hc gave nie a raost diverting account of bis life, and of the 
many extraordinary events of it j of many adventnrea wMcb bad 
befallen bim in tbe few years tbat be bad becn abroad in the 
World; and particularly this was very remarkable, via, that in 
the voyage he was now engaged in, he had the misfortune to be 
üva times shipped and nnahipped, and never to go to tbe place 
wliitber any of the sbips he was in were at iirst desig:ned. That 
Ma first Latent was to have gone to Martinico, and that he went 
on board a sbip bound tbither at St, Malo : bnt, being forced into 
Lbbon by bad weather, tbe ship received some damage by run- 
ning aground in tlie month of the river Tagns, and was obliged 
to unload her cargo there ; but finding a Portugucse sbip there 
bound to the IMadeiraa, aud readv to sail, and supposing he 
sbould easily meet witb a vessel there bound to Martinlco, he 
wcnt on board, in order to sail to the Madeiras ; bnt the master 
of the Portugucse ship» being but an indifferent mariner, had 
been out of bis reckoning, and they drove to Fayal ; wbere, how- 
ever, he happened to find a very good market for his cargo, 
wbich was com. and tberefore resolved not to go to the Madei- 
ras, but to load satt at the isle of May, and to go away to New- 
foundland. He bad no remedy in this exigence but to go mth 
the sbip, and bad a pretty good voyage as far as the Banks (so 
they call the place where they catch the fish) ; wbere, roeeting 
with a French ship bound from France to Quebec^ in the river 
of Canada, and irom thence to Martinico, to carry prOAdsions, he 
thonght he shonld have an opportunity to complete bis first 
design ; but when he came to Quebec the master of the ship 
died, and the vessel proceeded no fartber: so the next voyi^e 
he shipped Mmaelf for France, in the ship that was burned when 
we totik them np at sea ; and tben shipped with us for tbe East 
Indies, as I have already said. Thus be bad been disappointed 
in üve voyagea, all, m I may call it, in one voyage, besidea what 
J shall have occasion to mention fartber of the same person. 

Bnt I shaU not make digression into other men's stories, 
whicb have no relation to my own : I return to what concerns 
our aflkirs in tbe Island» 



316 



ADTSMTURE8 OV 




SECTION XXXVIII. 

ROBINSON'S DISCOÜRSE WITH THE ECCLESIASTIC AS TO INTRO- 
DUCING MARRIAGE8 AM0N6 THE PEOPLE. — ^MARBIAGES F£R- 
FORMED.— ATKINS CONVERTS EIS WIFE. 

He came to me one morning, for he lodged amoog us all the 
nfrhile we were upon the Island, and it happened to be just when 
I was going to visit the Englishmen's colony, at the farthest part 
of the Island ; I say, he came to me, and told me with a very 
grave countenance, that he had for two or three days desired 
an opportunitv of some discourse with me, which he hoped 
would not be displeasing to me, because he thought it might in 
some measure correspond with my general design, which was, 
the prosperity of my new colony, and perhaps might put it, at 
least more than he thought it was, in the way of God's blessing. 
I looked a little surprised at Ihe last part of his discourse, 
and tumin^ a little short, How, sir, said I, can it be said that 
we are not m the way of God's blessing, after such visible assist- 
ances and wonderM deliverances as we have seen here, and of 
which I have given you a large account ? — If you had pleased, 
sir, said he, with a world of modesty, and yet with great readi- 
ness, to have heard me, you would nave found no room to be 
displeased, much less to think so hard of me, that I should sug^est 
that you have not had wonderful assistances and deliverances; 
and I hope, on your behalf, that vou are in the way of God's 
blessing, as your design is excee jing good, and will prosper : 
but, sir, though it were more so than is even possible to you, 
yet there may be some among you that are not equally right in 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



317 



tlielr actions ; and yoii know, tliat in tbe story of the cLildren 
of Isr&el, one Acban in the cjirap reraoved God's blesaing irom 
tbeiDj and turned hiB Land so against tliem, that six and thirty 
of tliem, thoogh not concerncd in the crime, were the objects 
ül'diviue vengeance, and bore the weight of tlxat punishment, 

1 \*atj sensibler' toucbcd witb bis ditäccmrae, and told liim bis 
infereuce was so just^ and the whole design seemed so sincere, 
and was really so religious in its own nature, tbat I was very 
sorry 1 bad interrupted bim, and begged bim to go on ; and 
in the mean time, beeause it saemed that wbat we bad botb to 
say might take up some time, 1 tutd bim I was going to ibe 
Englishmen's plantations, and asked bim to go witb me, and we 
inigbt diücourse of it by tbe wiiy. He told me he would tbe 
more wiliingly wait on me tbitber, becauae tliere partly tbe 
tbing was acted wbicli be desired to speak to me about ; ao we 
walked on, and I pressed bim to be free and piain witb me in 
-wbat be had to say. 

Why then, sir, aays be, be pleascd to give me leave to lay 
down a few propoaitions, as tbe ioundation of wbat I bave to 
aay^ that we may not difler in tbe general principles, thongh we 
may be of aorae differing opinions in tbe practice of particular». 
First, sir, tbougb we dijfer in some of tbe doctriiial articles of 
Teligion, and it ia very nnhappy it is so, especially in the case 
Eefore us, as I sball sbow afterwards, yet tbere are some general 
principles in which we botb agree, viz. that there ie a God ; and 
that this God havLng given ua some stated general mies for our 
Service and obedience, we ongbt not willingly and knowingly to 
offend bim, either by neglexrting to do wbat ho lias commanded, 
or by doing what be has expressly ibrbidden ; and let our dilTer- 
ent rebgions be wbat tbey will, tiiis general priociple is readily 
owned by us all, that the blessing of God does not ordinariiy 
foUow preüumptiious suining against bis command ; and evcry 
good Christian will be affeotionately concerned to prevent any 
that are under bis care living in a total ncgleet of God and his 
commanda. It is not your men being Protestants, wbiitever 
my opinion may be of »ucb, that discbarges me from being 
concerned for their sonls, and from endeavouring, if it lies before 
me, that tbey shoiild live in as little distance from enmity witb 
tbcir Miiker as poBsible, especially if you give me leave to med- 
dle so far in your circuit. 

I cauld not yet imagine wbat he aimed at, and told him I 
grmnted all he bad said, and tbanked bim tbat he woidd so far 
coficem biraseU" for us ; and begged he would explain tbe parti- 
cuUrs of wbat he bad observed, that, like Joshua, to take his own 
parahle, I might pnt away the accursed tbing from us. 

Wby then, air, says be, I will take the libcrty you give me; 
and there are three tbings, which, it' I am rigbt, must stand in 
the way of God'a bleiiBiDg upon your endeavoiirs here, und 

Y2 



818 ADVENTURES OP 

which I should rejoice, for your sake, and their own, to eee 
removed : and, sir, I promise myself that you will ftilly agree 
with me in them all, as soon as I name them ; especially because 
I shall convince you that every one of them may, with great 
ease, and very much to your satisfaction, be remedied. First, 
sir, says he, you have here four Englishmen, who have fetched 
women from among the savages, and have taken them as their 
wives, and have had many children by them all, and yet are not 
married to them after any stated, legal manner, as the laws of 
God and man require ; and therefore are yet, in the sense of both, 
no less than fomicators, if not living in adultery. To this, sir, 
I know you will objeqt that there was no clergyman er priest 
of any kind, or of any profession, to perform the ceremony; nor 
any pen and ink, or paper, to write down a contract of marriage, 
and have it signed between them : and I know also, sir, what 
the Spaniard governor has told you, I mean, of the agreement 
that he obliged them to make when they took those women, 
viz. that they should choose them out by consent, and keep 
separately to them, which, by the way, is nothing of a marriage, 
no agreement with the women, as wives, but only an agreement 
among themselves, to keep them from quarrelling. But, sir, the 
essence of the sacrament of matrimony (so he called it, being a 
Roman) consists not only in the mutual consent of the parties 
to take one another as man and wife, but in the formal and legal 
Obligation that there is in the contract, to compel the man Mid 
woman, at all times, to own and acknowledge each other; 
obliging the man to abstain from all other women, to engage in 
no other contract wbile these subsist, and, on all occasions, as 
ability allows, to provide honestly for them and their children ; 
and to oblige the women to the sarae, or like conditions, mutatis 
mutandis^ on their side. Now, sir, says he, these men may when 
they please or when occasion presents, abandon these women, 
disown their children, leave them to perish, and take other 
women, and marry them while these are living : and here he 
added, with some warmth, How, sir, is God honoured in this 
unlawful liberty ? and how shall a blessing succeed your endea- 
vours in this place, however good in themselves, and however 
sincere in your design, while these men, who at present are your 
•subjects, under your absolute govemment and dominion, are 
allowed by you to live in open adultery? 

I confess I was Struck with the thing itself, but much more 
with the convincing arguments he supported it with ; for it was 
certainly true, that though they had no clergyman upon the 
Spot, yet a formal contract on both sides, made before witnesses, 
and confirmed by any token which they had all agreed to be 
bound by, though it had been but breaking a stick between 
them, engaging the men to own these women for their wivea 
upon all occasions, and never to abandon them or their children, 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



310 



and tbe women to tbe sanie with tbeir hnsbandi?, liad been an 
effectual lawful marriage iii Üie siglit of God; and it was a great 
ueglect that it was ncjt done, But I tlioug^lit to have ^ot off my 
yoixng priest by telling him that all that part was done wheu I 
was not here j and they had livcd so many years with tbem now, 
that if it was adulteryi it was past remedy ; they couM do no- 
thing in it now. 

Sir^ saya he, aslcing your pardou for such freedom, you. are 
right in tbis^ that, it berng done in your ahwence, yon coidd not 
he charged with that part of tbe crime ; hut, I beset^cb you, 
üatter not yourself that ytni are not therefore under an Obligation 
to do your ntmost nowto put an eiid to it. Hovv can you think 
hnt thatp let tbe time paat tie on whom it will, all the guilt,fbr tbe 
i^turCi will lic entirely upon you i? hecause it is certainly in your 
power now to put anend to it, and in nobody'a power bnt yourg. 

I was so dnll stiD» that 1 did not taite him right; hut 1 
iraagined that» hy putting an end tu it, he meaot that I sbould 
part tbem, and not suHer them to li\e together any longer; and 
I Said to him 1 eould not do tbat, by any means, for that it 
would pnt the whole Island into confusion. He secnied aurprised 
that I ahould ao far miatake bim. No, sir, sayH be, i do not 
mean that you shonld now separate them, but legally and efVec^ 
tually marry tbem now; and as, sir, my way of marrying them 
may not be easy to rcconcÜEi tbem to, th'ough it will be eiVectual, 
even by your owti laws, so your way may be as well before 
God, and as valid among men ; I mean, hy a written contract 
signcd by both man and woraan, and by all the witnesaes pre- 
scnt, whicb all the laws of Europe would decree to he valid, 

I was amazed to see so mucb true piety, and so mucb sincerity 
of zeal, bemdes tbe unußual iinpartijiHtyin bis disconrse as to bis 
own party or cburch, and such true warmtb for preserving tbe 
people that he had no knowledge of or relation to ; I say, for 
preserving tbem from trtmsgressing the laws of God, the like 
of whicb I had indeed not mct with any uhere : but, recollecting 
what he had said of ninrrying them by a written contract, whicli 
I knew he would stand to, 1 returned it back upon him» and 
told him» I granted all tbat be had said to be just, and on bis 
part very kind ; tbat I would discourse witb the men upon the 
point now, when 1 came to tbem ; and I knew no reason why 
Lbey sbould scrunle tu let him marry tbem aU, whicb I knew 
well enough would be granted to be as autbentic and valid in 
England as if they were married by one of our own clergymen, 
What was afterwards done in this matter 1 shall speak of by itself 

I then pressed Mm to teil me what was the second complaint 
which he had to make, acknowledging that I was very mucb his 
debtor for the first, and thankc4 him beartily for it. Hc told 
me be would nae the same freedora and plaiunesa in the second» 
and hoped I would take it as well j and thiä was^ that notwith - 



320 ADYENTUEES OF 

Standing these English subjects of mine, as he called them, had 
lived with those women for almost seven years, had tanght 
them to speak English, and even to read it, and that they wäre, 
as he perceiyed, women of tolerable understanding, and capable 
of instruction, yet they had not, to this hour, taught them any- 
thing of the Christian religion, no, not so much as to knowihat 
there was a God, or a worship, or in what manner God was to 
be served; or that their own idolatry, and worshipping they 
knew not whom, was false and absind. This, he said, was an 
onaccountable neglect, and what God would certainly odl them 
to account for, and perhaps, at last, take the work out of * their 
hands — ^he spoke this very affectionately, and warmly. I am 
persuaded, says he, had those men lived in the savage country 
whence their wives came, the savages wonld have taken more 
pains to have brought them to be idolaters, and to worship the 
aevil, than any of tbese men, so far as I can see, have taken with 
them to teach them the knowledge of the true God. New, sir, 
said he, though I do not ackn6wledge your religion, or you mine, 
yet we would be glad to see the devü's servants, and the subjects 
of his kingdom, taught to know the general prindples of the 
Christian religion : tnat they might, at least, hear of God, and a 
Redeemer, and of the resurrection, and of a Aiture State, — things 
which we all believe ; they would have, at least, been so much 
nearer coming.into the bosom of the true church than they are 
now, in the public profession of idolatry and devil-worship. 

I could hold no longer ; I took him in my arms, and embraced 
him with an excess of passion. How far, said I to him, have 
I been from understanding the most essential part of a Christian ! 
viz. to love the interest of the Christian church, and the good 
of other men's souls : I scarce have known what belongs to the 
being a Christian. — O, sir, do not say so, replied he ; this thing 
is not your fault. — No, said I ; but why did I never lay it to 
heart as well as you ? — It is not too late yet, said he ; be not too 
forward to condemn yourself. — But what can be done now? said 
I; you see I am gomg away. — Will you give me leave to talk 
with these poor men about it? — ^Yes, with all my heart, said I ; 
and will oblige them to give heed to what you say too. — As to 
that, said he, we must leave them to the mercy of Christ ; but it 
is your business to assist them, encourage them, and instruct 
them ; and if you give me leave, and God his blessing, I do not 
doubt but the poor ignorant souls shall be brought home to the 
great circle of Christianity, if not into the particular faith we all 
embrace, and that even while you stay here. Upon this I said, 
I shall not only give you leave, but give you a thousand thanks 
for it. What followed on this account I shall mention also again 
in its place. 

I now pressed him for the third article in which we were to 
blame. Why, really, says he, it is of the same nature ; and I 



EOBINSON CEU80£, 



321 



will proceed, aaldng your lea-ve, with the same plainness as 
before ; it is about your poor sava^es^ who are, as I may aay, 
yoiir conqucred subjecta. It is a maximf sir, that is, or ougbt 
to be, received araong all ChriBtionSj of what church or pre- 
tended chiurch aoever, viz,^ The Christian knowledge ought to 
be propagated by all posBible meanSf and on all possible occa- 
aions. It is on Öiis principlc tbat our churcli sends missionahes 
into Persia, India, China ; and tbat our clei^r^ even of the supe- 
rior 8ort, willingly engage in tbe most bazurdous voyagea» and 
the most dangerou:? residence amoug murderers and barbarians, 
to teach them the knowledge of the true God> and to bring thera 
over to embrace the Christian faith» Now, sir, yoii have Buch 
an opportunity here to have aix. or scven and thirty poor 
savages brought over from idolatry to the knowledge of God, 
thcir Maker and Redeemer, that 1 wonder bow you can pas« 
such an occasion of doing good, whicb is really worth the ex* 
pense of a man 's whole lile, 

I was now Struck dumb, indeed, and had not one word to say. 
I had her« a spirit oi' true Christian zeal for God and religion 
before me^ let nis particular principles be of wbat kind soever : 
aa for me, I had not so tniwh m entertaincd a th ought of thia in 
my heart before, and I believe I should not have thought of it ; 
for I lüoked upon theüe savages aa slaves, and people whom, 
had we any work for Üiem to do, we would have used aa such, 
or would have been glad to have transported them to any other 
part of the world : for our businesa waa to get rid of them; and 
we would all have been aatisäed if they had been aent to any 
country, so they had never seen their ovvn, Bnt to the caae j — 
I say, I was confounded at hia discourae, and knew not what 
aitawer to make hira» 

He looked earnestly at me, aeeing me in some disorder — 
Sir, says he, I ahall be very aorry it" what I have said gives you 
any offence, — No, no, said I, I am offended with nobody but 
myself ; but I am perfectly confounded, not only to thiiik that I 
should never take any notice of thie before, but with reflccting 
what notice I am able to take of it now» You know, sir» said I, 
what circumstances I am in ; I am bound to the £aat In dies in 
a ahip freighted by merchants, and to whom it would be an 
inaufferable piece of injustice to detain their ahip here, the naeu 
lying all thia while at victuals and wages on the owners* account, 
It is tnie, I agreed to he allowed twelve days here, and if I stay 
more, I must pay three pounds Sterling per die^ft demurrage; 
nor can 1 stay upon demurrage above eight days more^ and 
I have been here thirtecn already ; bo that l am perfectly unable 
to engage in thia work, unlesa I would suifer myself to be left 
hchtnd here again ; in wbich case, if thia Single ship should 
jniacarry in any part of her voyage, I should be just in the aame 
condition that'l was lefL in here, atfirst, and from which I have 



322 ADVENTURES OV 

been so wonderfully delivered. He owned the case was very 
hard upon me, as to my voyage , but laid it home upon mv con- 
science, whether the blessing of saving thirty-seven souut was 
not worth venturing all I had in the world fon * I was oiot so 
sensible of that as he was. I returned upon ' him . thos : ' Why, 
sir, it is a valuable thiiig, indeed, to be an üasträmeiitrin. God's 
band to convert thirty-seveu heatHens to the 'knowledge of 
Christ ; but as you are an ecclesiastic, and aregivöi orer to the 
work, 'so that it seems so naturally to fall into .the wanr«of your 
profession, how is it then that you do not rather ofiEer yonrself 
to undertake it, than press me to do it ? • • . 

Upon this he faced about just before ine, as he walked along, 
and putting me to a füll stop, mäde nie a Y^T^lowbowv I most 
heartily thank God and you, sir,s'aid-he,'for ^VizigrmiB«o evi- 
dent a call to so blessed a work ; and if you ^think yoiinelf dis- 
charged from it, and desire me to: undertake it, I will- most 
readUy do it, and think it a happy reward for all the hasasds and 
difficiüties of such a broken, disappointed yoyage as I have met 
with, that I am dropped at last into so glorious a work. 

I discovered a kind of rapture in his face while iie . spoke 
this to me; his eyes sparkled like fire, bis face ^löwed, and 
his colour came and went, as if he had been falling into fite ; in 
a Word, he was fired with the joy of being embarked insudi a 
work. I paused a considerable while before I could teil what 
to say to him ; for I was really surprised to find a man of such 
sincerity and zeal, and carried out m his zeal beyond the ordi- 
nary rate of men, not of his profession only, but even of any 
profession whatsoever. But after I had considered it awhile, 
I asked him seriously if he was in earnest, and that he would 
venture, on the Single consideration of an attempt on those poor 
people, to be locked up in an unplanted Island for perhaps his 
tife, and at last might not know whether he should be able to do 
them good or not? 

He turned short upon me, and asked me what I called a 
venture ? Pray, sir, said he, what do you think I consented to 
go in your ship to the East Indies for? — Nay, said I, that I 
know not, unless it was to preach to the Indians. — Doubtless 
it was, said he ; and do you think, if I can convert these thirty- 
seven men to the faith of Jesus Christ, it is not worth my time, 
though I should never be fetched off the Island again? Nay, 
is it not infinitely of more worth to save so many souls . than 
my life is, or the life of twenty more of the same profession ? 
Yes, sir, says he, I would give Christ and the blessed Virgin 
thanks all my days, if I could be made the least happy Instru- 
ment of saving the souls of those poor men, though I were 
never to set my foot off this Island, or see my native country 
any more. But since you will honour me with putting me 
into this work, for .which I will pray for you all the days of : 



i i 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. S23 

ttiy life, I have one humble petition to you besides. — What is 
that? Said L Why, says he, it is, that you will leave your 
man Friday with me, to be my interpreter to tbem, and to 
assist me ; for witbout some belp I cannot speak to them, or 
they to me. 

I was sensibly toucbed at Li» requesting Friday, because I 
could not tbink of parting with bim, and that for many reasons : 
he had been the companion of my travels ; be was not only 
faithful to me, but sincerely affectionate to the last degree; 
and I had resolved to do something considerable for bim if he 
outlived me, as it was probable he would. Then I knew that 
as I had bred Friday up to be a Protestant, it would quite 
confound him to bring him to embrace auother profession; and 
he would never, wbile bis eyes were open, believe that bis old 
master was a heretic, and would be damned ; and this might, 
in the end, ruin the poor fellow's principles, and so turn him 
back again to bis first idolatry. However, a sudden thought 
relieved me in this strait, and it was this : I told him I could 
not say that I was wiUing to part with Friday on any account 
whatever, though a work that to him was of more value than 
bis life, oaght to be to me of much more value than the keeping 
or parting with a servant. But, on the other band, I was per- 
suaded that Friday would by no means agree to part with me : 
and I could not force him to it without bis consent, without 
manifest injustice ; because I had promised I would never put 
him away, and he had promised and engaged to me that he 
would never leave me unless I put him away. 

He seemed very much concemed at it, for he had no rational 
access to these poor people, seeing he did not understand one 
Word of their language, nor they one word of bis. To remove 
this difficulty, I told nim Friday 's father had leamed Spanish, 
which I found he also understood, and be should serve him as an 
interpreter. So he was much better satisfied, and nothing could 

Eersuade him but he would stay and endeavour to convert them; 
ut Providence gave another very happy tum to all this. 
I come back now to the first part of bis objections. When 
we came to the Englishmen, I sent for them altogetber, and 
alter some account given them of what I had done for them, viz. 
what necessary things I had provided for them, and how they 
were distributed, which they were very sensible of, and very 
thankful for, I began to talk to them of the scandalous life they 
led, and gave them a füll account of the notice the clergyman 
had taken of it ; and arguing how unchristian and irreligious a 
life it was, I first asked them if they were married men or 
bachelors? They soon explained their conditions to me, and 
showed that two of them were widowers, and the other three 
were Single men, or bachelors. I asked them with what con- 
gcience they could take those women, and lie with them as they 



S24 ADYENTURES OF 

had done, call them their wives, and luiTe so many childroi bj 
them, and not be lawfully married to tbem ? 

They all gave me die answer I expected, vis. that there was 
nobody to marry them ; that they agreed before the goTemor 
to keep them as their wives, and to maintam them and own 
them as their wives ; and they thought, as things stood with 
them, they were as legally married as if thev had been married 
by a parson, and with all the formalities in uie world. 

I told them that no doubt they were married in the sight of 
God, and wero bound in conscience to keep them as their wives; 
bat that the laws of men being otherwise, they might desert Üie 
poor women and children hereafter ; and that their wiyes b«ing 
poor desolate women, Mendless and moneyless, wonld have no 
way to help themselves. I therefore told them that/imless I was 
assured of their honest intent, I coald do nothing for them, but 
would take care that what I did should be for the women and 
children without them ; and that, unless they would give me some 
assurances that they would marry the women, I couM not tbink 
it was convenient they should continue together as man and wife; 
for it was both scandalous to men and offensive to God, who 
they could not think would bless them if they went on thus. 

All this went on as I expected ; and they told me, espedally 
Will Atkins, who now seemed to speak for the res^ that they 
loved their wives as well as if they had been bom in their own 
native couutry, and would not leave them upon any aocount 
whatever : and they did verily believe their wives were as vir- 
tuous and as modest, and did, to the utmost of their skill, as 
much for them and for their children, as any women could pos- 
sibly do ; and they would not part with them on any account ; 
and Will Atkins, for his own particular, added, that if any man 
would take him away, and offer to carry him home to England, 
and make him captain of the best man-of-war in the navy, he 
would not go with him, if he might not carry his wife and chil- 
dren with him ; and if there was a clergyman in the ship, be 
would be married to her now with all his heart. 

This was just as I would have it : the priest was not with 
me at that moment, but was not far off; so, to try him farther, 
I told him I had a clergyman with me, and, if he was sincere, 
I would have him married next moming, and bade him con- 
sider of it, and talk with the rest. He said, as for himself, he 
need not consider of it at all, for he was verv ready to do it, and 
was glad £ had a minister with me, and he believed they would 
be aU willing also. I then told him that my frieud, the mi- 
nister, was a Frenchman, and could not speak English, but I 
would act the clerk between them. He never so mucb as 
asked me whether he was a Papist or Protestant, which was 
indeed what I was afraid of ; so we parted : I went back to 
my clergyman, and Will Atkins went in to talk witb lüs 



RÖBINSOlf CRUSOE. 8SS 

compftiiiona. I desired the French gentlcmun not to aay ftt)^ 
thing to them tili the business was thorough ripe : and I told 
liim what answer the men liad given ine. 

Before I went from their i|u arter, they all came to me, and 
toM me tliey liad been consideritig wbat I bud said ; tbat tbey 
were giad to henr 1 bad a cler^j^man in my Company, and they 
wer« very wiUing to give me the satisfaction. I desired, and to 
be formallv married as soon as I pleasedj for they were far 
fi*om deamn^ to part with tlieir wivea, and tbat taey meant 
notbin^ but what was very honest when they cbose them. So 
I appointed them to meet me the next niomiog, and, in tbß 
mean time, they Bhould let thetr wives know the meaning of 
the marriage law; and tbat it was not onlv to pr^rent any 
scandal, bat also to oblige them tbat tbey sfiould not forsake 
them, wbatever might bappen, 

The women were easily made sensible of the meaning of the 
thingj and were very well satiafied witb it, aa indeed they had 
reason to be: so they failed not to attend aUogetber at my 
apnrtment next morning^ where I bronght out niyclergyman; 
and thoiigb he bad not on a minister's gowii, after the manner of 
England) or tbe habit of a priest, after the manner of FrancCj yct 
bavin^ a black vest, Bomething like a cassock, witb a sash round 
it, hc üid not look very unlike a minister; and as for his langiiage, 
I was hia interpreter. But the scrionsness of bis behaviour to 
them, and the scruples he made of marrying the women because 
tbey were not baptized and profeased Christians, gave them an 
exceetiing reverence for bis person : and there was no need, after 
that, to inqiiire whetber h© was a clergymao or not. Indeed, T 
was aftaid bis scmptes would havc been carried so far, as tbat 
be would not have married them at all ; nay, notwtth standin g all 
1 was able to say to bim, be resisted me, tbougb modpstly, yet 
very steadiJy : and at last refuaed absolutely to many them, 
unless he had firat talked with the men and the women too ; and 
though I at first was a üttle backward to it, yet at last I agreed 
to it witb a good will, perceiving the sincerity of bis design. 

Wben he i^ame to tbeni, he let them know tbat I had ac- 
auainted bim with tbeir circumstances, and with the present 
aesign j that he waa very willing to perform tbat part of hia 
fimction, and manry them, as I had desired ; but that, before 
he could do it, he must take tbe libertv to talk witb them. He 
told them, that in the sight of all indifferent men, and in the 
sefis« of the lawa of society, tbey bad lived all thia while in 
open formcation - and that it was true, that nothing but the 
consentiiig to marry, or effectualljr separating them frora one 
aaother} could now put an end to it ; but there was a difficulty 
in it too, with reapect to the law« of Chriatian matriraony, 
whkh he was not fullv aatisfied about, viz. tbat of marryine 
ona th^t is a professed Christian to a savage, an idolater and 



326 ADVENTÜRES OF 

a heathen, one that is not baptized ; and jet that he did not 
see that there was time left to eudeavour to persuade the 
women to be baptized, or to profess tbe name of Christ, whom 
they had, he doubted, heard nothing of, and without which 
they could not be baptized. He told them he doubted they 
were but indifferent Christians themselves ; that they had but 
little knowledge of God or of his ways, and therefore he could 
not expect that they had said mach to their wives on that head 
yet; but that, unless they would promise him to use their 
endeavours with their wives to persuade them to become Chris- 
tians, and would, as well as they could, instruct them in the 
knowledge and belief of God that made them, and to worship 
Jesus Christ that redeemed them, he could not marry them; 
for he would have no band in joining Christians with savages ; 
nor was it consistent with the principles of the Christian reli^on, 
and was indeed expressly forbidden in God's law. 

They heard all this very attentively, and I delivered it very 
faithfully to them from his mouth, as near his own words as I 
could ; only sometimes adding something of my own, to con- 
vince them how just it was, and how I was of ms mind: and I 
always very faithfully distinguished between what I said from 
myself, and what were the clergyman's words. They told me 
it was very true what the gentleman said, that they were very 
indifferent Christians themselves, and that they had never taJked 
to their wives about religion. Lord, sir, says Will Atkins, how 
should we teach them religion? why, we know nothing our- 
selves ; and besides, sir, said he, should we talk to them of God 
and Jesus Christ, and heaven and heil, it would make them laugh 
at US, and ask us what we believe ourselves. And if we shoiüd 
teil them that we believe all the things we speak of to them, 
such as of good people going to heaven, and wicked people to 
the devil, they would ask us where we intend to go ourselves, 
that believe all this, and are such wicked fellows as we indeed 
are. Why, sir, 'tis enough to give them a surfeit of religion at 
first hearing ; folks must have some religion themselves before 
they pretend to teach other people. — Will Atkins, said I to him, 
though I am afraid that what you say has too much truth in it, 
yet can you not teil your wife she is in the wrong ; that there is 
a God, and a religion better than her own ; that her gods are 
idols ; that they can neither hear nor speak ; that there is a 
great Being that made all things, and that can destroy all that 
he has made ; that he rewards the good and punishes the bad ; 
and that we are to be judged by him at last for all we do here ? 
You are not so ignorant, but even nature itself will teach you 
that all this is true ; and I am satisfied you know it all to be 
true, and believe it yourself. — That is true, sir, said Atkins ; but 
with what face can I say anything to my wife of all this, when 
she will teil me immediately it cannot be true ? — Not true ! said 



EOBINSON CEUSOE. 

T ; wliat do you me&ii by that?— Why, sir, said be^ sbe will teil 
rae it cannot be true tbat this God I Bhall teil ber of can be just, 
ur can piinish or reward, since 1 am not punished and sent to 
the devü, tbat have been siicli a wicked creatiire aa sbe knows 
1 bave beenj even to her, and to every body eise ; and tbat I 
sbould be suiTered to live, that bave been always acting" so con- 
tra ry to wbat I raust teil ber b good, and to wbat I ought to 
have done. — Why, triily, Atkins» said I» I am afraid tbou speak- 
est too mncb truth ; and with tbat I inforraed the clergyman of 
what Atkiös bad said, for be wag impaticnt to know* O, said 
the priest, teil bim tbere is one tbdng will make bim the best 
minister in tbe world to blä wife, and that is* repentance ; for 
none teacb repentance like true penitents. He wanta notlüng 
bat to repcntj and theii he will be so miich tbe better quaLified 
to instmct bis wife : he will tben be able to teil her that tbere ia 
not only a God, and that he is the juat rewanler of good and 
evil, but that he is a mcrcifiil Bein^, and with. infinite goodness 
and long-sufiering forbears to punish tboae that offend ; waiting" 
to be gracioug, and willin^ not tbe death of a sinner, but rather 
that he should return and bve : tbat oftcntimes he sniTers wicked 
men to go a long time, and even reaerves damnation to the 
general day of retribution : that it is a elear evidence of God 
and of a future state, that i-ighteous men receive not tbcir reward, 
or wicked men their punlsbment, tili tbey come into another 
World ; and this will lead bim to teacb bis wifc the doctrine of tlie 
resnrrection and of tbe last judgmcnt. Let bim but i*epent tbr bim- 
aelf, he will be an excellent preacber of repentance to bis wife, 

I repeated all tliis to Atkin«, who lookcd Tery serbus all the 
whüet and who, we could easily perceive, was more than ordi- 
narily affccted \'»itb it i when, being eager, and hardly sniFering 
me to make an end — I know all this, tnaster, says he, and a 
great deal more ; but I have not the impudence to talk thus to 
my wife, when God and my conscience know, and my wife mhII 
be an undcniable evidence against me, that I have lived as if I 
had never heard of a God or ftiture State, or anything about it ; 
and to talk of my rep entin g, alas ! (and with tbat be fetched a 
deep ai^b, and I could aee tbat the tears stood in bia eyes) 'im 
paat all that with me,— Past it, Atkins? said 1 ; wbat dost tbou 
mean by that? — I know well enoue^h wbat I mean, says be; I 
mean 'tis too late, and that is too tuue, 

I told the clergyman, word for word, what be said : tbe poop 
«ealoUÄ priest» — 1 must call bim so, for, be bis opinion what it 
will, be had certainly a most singnlar aflection for tbe good of 
other men'a souls, and it woidd be bard to think be had not the 
like for his own, — I say, this alTectionate man could not refrain 
from tears ; but, recovering bimself, said to me, Ask him but one 
question; Is he easy that it is too late; or is he troubled, and 
wiahea it were not so ? I put the questiou fairly to Atkina ; and 



328 ADVENTURES OP 

be answered, with a ereat deal of passion, How coiiM aay man be 
easj in a condition äat must certainly end in etemal destrac- 
tion ? that he was &r from being easy ; but tbat, on the contrary , 
he believed it woold, one time or other, ruin bim. Wbat do you 
mean by that? said I. Why, he said, he believed he should one 
time or other cut bis throa^ to put an end to the terror of it 

The clergyman sbook bis bead with great concern in bis fiice, 
wben I told Imn all this ; but turniug quick to me upon it, says, 
If that be bis case, we may assure bun it is not too late ; Cbnst 
will give bim repentance. But, pray, says he, explain this to 
bim; that as no man is saved but by Christ, and the merit 
of bis passion procuring divine mercy for bim, how can it be 
too late for any man to receive mercy? Does he think be is 
able to sin beyond the power or reach of divine mercy? Pray 
teil bim, there may be a time wben provoked mercy will no 
longer strive, and wben God may reftise to hear, but that it is 
never too late for men to ask mercy ; and we, that are Cbiist's 
servants, are commanded to preach mercy at all times, in tiie 
name of Jesus Christ, to all those that sincerely lepent; so that 
it is never too late to repent. 

I told Atkins all this, and be heard me with great eamestness ; 
but it seemed as if be tumed off the discourse to the rest, for he 
Said to me, he would go and have some talk with bis wife ; so 
he went out awbile, and we talked to therest. I perceived they 
were all stupidly Ignorant as to matters of religion, m mnd^ as 
I was wben I went rambling away from my fatber ; and yet 
there were none of tbem backward to hear wbat had been said ; 
aud all of tbem seriously promised that tbey would talk with 
tbeir wives about it, and do tbeir endeavours to persuade tbem 
to turn Christians. 

The clergyman smiled upon me wben I reported wbat answer 
tbey gave, but said nothing a good while ; but at last, shaking 
bis bead, We that are Christ's servants, »says he, can go no 
£a,rther than to exbort and instruct; and wben men comply, 
submit to the reproof, and promise wbat we ask, 'tis all we can 
do ; we are bound to accept tbeir good words ; but, believe me, 
sir, said he, whatever you may have known of the life of that 
man you call Will Atkins, I believe he is the only sincere con- 
vert among tbem : 1 take that man to be a true penitent : I will 
not despair of the rest ; but that man is apparently Struck with 
the sense of bis past bfe, aud I doubt not, wben he comes to 
talk of religion to bis wife, be will talk himself effectuaUy into 
it ; for attempting to teach others is sometimes the best way of 
teacbing ourselves. I know a man, who, having nothing but a 
summary notion of religion himself, and being wicked and 
profligate to the last degree in bis life, made a thorough 
reformation in himself by labouring to convert a Jew. If that 
poor Atkins begins but once to talk seriously of Jesus Christ 



ROBINSON CRTJßOE. 



S29 



to bis wife, mj life for it, Le talks hiinself into a thorongh con- 
vert, maltea himself a penilent; and wlio knows what may fülliiwf 
Upon tbis disßourse, howcver, and their promisinfri as above, 
to endeavour to perBiiade their wives tn embrace ChriBtiamty, 
he married ilie otber* two coiiple; biit Will Atkins and bis wife 
were notyet come in. After tbis, my clergymaii waiting awhile, 
was cnriouB to know wliere Atkins was gone ; aod turnin«f to mCi 
Said, I entreat you, sir, let iis walk out of yoiir labyrinth here, 
and look ; I dare say we sball find tbis poor man souiewbere or 
other talking serioualy to bis iviie, and teacbing ber alreacly 
sometking of rebg^ion* I begaii to he of ihe aame müid ; so \ve 
went out to^etber, and I carried liim a way whick none knew 
bnt myself, and wbere tbe treea were so very tkick tbat it was 
not easy to see tbrougk tbc tbicket of Icavea, and far barder to 
see in tban to see out ; wben Coming: to tbe cdg:e of the wood, I 
saw Atkins and bis tawny wife sitting'iinder tbe shadeof a bush, 
vcry eager in discourse : 7 stopped sbort tiH myclergyman came 
np to me, and then baving sbowed bim wbcre tbey wcre, we 
stood and looked very steadily at them a g:ood wbile. We ob- 
served bim very eamest witb herj poiiiting up to tbe sun, and to 
every quarter of tbe beavens, and then down to tbe eartb, tben 
out to the sea, then to kimself, tben to her, to tbe wooda, to the 
treeiS. Now, says the clerjrjTnan, you see my worda are made 
good, tbe man preaebes to ber ; mark bim now, he is tellingf her 
that our God has made bim and her, and the heavenst tbe eartb^ 
the 8ea, tbe woods, tbe trecs, S:c. — I believc be is, said I. Im- 
mediately we perceived Will Atkins start upon bis feet, fall down 
on bis knees, and lift up botb bis hands« W^e supposed he said 
Homething, but we could not bear bim ; it was too far for that. 
He did not continue kneelinof half a minute, but cames and sita 
down again by his wife, and talka to ber again ; we perceived 
then tbe woman very attentive, but whether sbe said anything 
to bim, we eoiüd not telL W^hile the poor fellow was upon bis 
kneea, I could see the tears run plentifuüy down my clergyman's 
cheeks, and I could bardly forbear rayself ; but it was a great 
affliction to us botb tbat we were not near enough to hoar any- 
thing tbat passed betwt^en tbem. Well, bowever, we could come 
HO nearer, for fear of disturbing tbem ; so we resolved to aee an 
end to this piece of still conversation, and it spoke loud enough 
to U8 witbout the belp of voice. He sat down as^ain, as I have 
BBid, cloäe by ber, and talked agarn earnestly to ber, and two or 
three times we could see bim embrace ber most passionately ; 
luiotber time we saw him take out bis handkerchief and wipeher 
efcst and then kiss her aojain, witb a kind of transport very nn- 
usnal ; and after »everal of thcse tbings, we saw him on a sudden 
jump up again, and Icnd ber hia band to belp ht^r up, when im- 
mediAteiy leading her by the band a step or two, tbey botb 
kueeled down together, and coatinued so about two minutes. 



830 ADVENTURES OF 

My friend coiüd bear it no longer, but ci4es ont aloud, St. Paulf 
St. Paul! behold he prayeth. I was afraid Atkins woold haar 
him, therefore I entreated him to withhold himself awhile, that 
we might see an end of the scene, which to me, I must confess, 
was the most aflFecting that ever I saw in my life. Well, he strovc 
with himself for a while, but was in such raptures to think that 
the poor heathen woman was become a Christian^ that he was 
not able to contain himself; he wept several times, then throw- 
ing up bis hands and crossing his breast, said over seyeral things 
ejaculatory, and by way of giving God thfuiks for so miracolous 
a testimony of the success of our endeavours ; some he spoke 
softly, and I could not well hear others ; some in Latin, some in 
French; then two or three times the tears would interrupt him, 
that he could not speak at all ; but I begged that he woiüd con- 
tain himself, and let us more narrowly and fully observe what 
was before us, which he did for a time, the scene not being near 
ended yet ; for after the poor man and his wife were risen again 
from their knees, we observed he stood talking still eagerly to 
her, and we observed her motion, that she was greatly afiected 
with what he said, by her frequently lifting up her hands, laying 
her band to her breast, and such other postures as express 
the greatest seriousness and attention: this continued about 
half a quarter of an hour, and then they walked away ; so we 
could see no more of them in that Situation. I took this interval 
to talk with my clergyman ; and first, I was glad to see the parti- 
culars we had both been witnesses to, that, though I was hard 
enough of belief in such cases, yet that J began to think it was 
all very sincere here, both in the man and his wife, however Ig- 
norant they might both be, and I hoped such a beginning would 
yet have a more happy end : And who knows, said I, but these 
two may in time, by instruction and example, work upon some 
of the others ? — Some of them? said he, tuming quick upon me; 
ay, upon all of them : depend upon it, if those two savages, for 
he has been but little better, as you relate it, should embrace 
Jesus Christ, they will never leave it tiU they work upon all the 
rest ; for true religion is naturally communicative, and he that is 
once made a Christian will never leave a pagan behind him, if he 
can help it. I owned it was a most Christian principle to think 
so, and a testimony of true zeal, as well as a generous heart, in 
him. But, my friend, said I, will you give me leave to Start one 
difficulty here ? I cannot teil how to object the least thing against 
that affectionate concem which you show for the tuming the 
poor people from their paganism to the Christian religion : but 
how does this comfort you while these people are, in your ao- 
count, out of the pale of the catholic church, without which you 
believe there is no salvation? so that you esteem these but here- 
tics, and for other reasons as effectually lost as the pagans 
theraselves. 



BOSIT^SOI? CRUSOE* 



331 



To tMs he ans^vercd, witli abuiidance of candour, thus : Sir, 
I am a catholic of the Roraan cburcli, and a pr'mst ot the order 
of St. Benedict, and I ernbrace all the priüciples of the Romaa 
faith ; butyet, Lf yoti vviU believe me, and tliat I do not speak in 
compliment to you, or in respect to ray ciraimBtances and your 
dvilities ; I say, nevertheless, I do not look upon you who call 
yourselves reformed, without some cliarity : I dare not say 
(tboiigh I know h is our opinion in general) that you cannot be 
saved ; I ^dll by no means limit the merey of Chnst so far as to 
think that he cannot receive you into the bosom of bis church, 
in a iniinnef to ns nnpercerivable ; and I hope you bave the aame 
cbarity ibr u» : l pray daily for your being all restored to Christ 's 
church, by whatsouver rae'thod be, who La all-wise, h pleased to 
direct. In the mean time, sure you will allow it consista with 
me, as a Roman, to distinguish far l>etween a Protestant and a 
pa^an; betweeu one that calls on Jesus Christ, ihoiigh in a way 
which I do not think is according: to the true faith, and a savage 
or a burbarian, that knows no God, no Christ, no Redeemer; 
and if you are not within the pale of the catbolic church, we 
liope you are nearer being restored to it than those that kuow 
notbin^ of God or of Ms duirch : and I rejoice, therefore, when I 
see tbis poor man, who, you say, haa bcen a protüofate, and 
almost a murderer, kneel down and pray to Jesus Christ, as we 
suppose he Äd, thonj^b not fully enlightened; believiiig that 
God, from whom every such work procecds, will sensibly touch 
hia heart, and bring bim to the furtber knowledge of that truth 
in his o\m time : and if God shaÜ influence this poor man to 
convcrt and instruct the Ignorant savage, his wife, I can never 
beUeve tbat he ehall be cast away himself. And bave I not 
reason then to rejoice tbc nearer any are brought to the know- 
ledge of Christ, though they may not be brought quite home 
into the bosom of the catbolic chorch just at the time when I 
may desire it, leaving it to the goodness of Christ to perfect his 
work in his own time, and in his own way ? Certainly, I would 
rejoicc if all the savages Ln America were brought, like tbia poor 
vornan, to pray to God, thongb they were all to be protcstarits 
at first, rather than they sliould contimic pagans or beathens; 
firmly bebeving, that he that hnd bcstowed the first Light to 
thera would fartber illiuninate tbcm viith a beam of bis heavenly 
grace, and bring thera into the pale of bis church, when he should 
^e good. 



332 



ADVENTURES OP 




SECTION XXXIX. 



ATKINS RELATES HIS CONVERSATION WITH HIS WIFE. — ^THE LAT- 
TER BAPTIZED BY THE PRIEST. — ACCOUNT OP THE STARVING 
STATE OF THOSE ON BOARD THE RESCUED VESSEL. — ROBIN- 
SON 'S DEPARTÜRE FROM THE ISLAND. 

I WAS astonisLed at tbe sincerity and temper of this pious papist, 
as mucli as I was oppressed by the power of bis reasoniug; and 
it presently occurred to my tbougbts, tbat if sucb a temper was 
universal, we might be all catbolic Cbristians, wbatever chureb 
or particular profession we joined in; tbat a spirit of cbarity 
would soon work us all iip into rigbt principles; and as be 
tbougbt tbat tbe like cbarity would make us all catbolics, so I 
told bim I believed bad all tbe members of bis cburcb tbe like 
moderation, tbey would soon all be protestants. — And tbere we 
left tbat part ; for we never disputed at all. 

However, I talked to bim anotber way, and taking bim by tbe 
band, My friend, says I, I wisb all tbe clergy of tbe Romisb 
cburcb were blest witb sucb moderation, and bad an equal sbare 
of your cbarity. I am entirely of your opinion : but I must teil 
you, tbat if you sbould preacb sucb doctrine in Spain or Italy, 
tbey would put you into tbe Inquisition. — It may be so, said be; 
I know not.wbat tbey would do in Spain or Italy; but I will not 
say tbey would be tbe better Cbristians for tbat severity ; for I 
am sure tbere is no beresy in abounding witb cbarity. 

As Will Atkins and bis wife were gone, our business tbere 
was over, so we went back our own way ; and wben we came 
back, we found tbem waiting to be called in : observing tbis, 1 
asked ray clergyman if we sbould discover to bim tbat we bad 
Seen bim under tbe busb or not; and it was bis opinion we 
sboidd not, but tbat we sbould talk to bim first, and near what 



BOBINSOX CRUSOE. 



333 



he wotdd sav to us ; so we f allecl liiin in alone, nohody being 
in the place Gut ourselves, and I begati with bim thus ; 

Will Atkins, said I, prithee what education bad j^ou? What 
was your fatber ? 

W. A. A better man tban ever I sball be ; Sir, my fatber was 
a clergj^man. 

R. C* Wbat education did be give you ? 

W* A. He woiild bave taii|^bt me well, air ; but I despised all 
cducation, instniction^ or corret'lion, like a beast aa I waa. 

R. C. It ia true» Solomon says, Ho tbat despises reproof is 
bmtisli. 

W. A, Af,«8ir, I was bmtish indeed, for I murdered my 
father ; for God's sake, sir, talk no more about tbat { sir, i 
miifdered my poor father, 

Pr. Ha! a murdereri 

Here tbe priest atarted (for I interprcted everv word as he 
spoke) and lüoked pale i it seems be beiieved tbat Will bad 
reaUy kiOed bia tatber. 

R. C. No, tio, sir, I do not understand him fio: Will Atkiixs, 
explain youraelf; you did not kUl your fatber, did you, witb 
your own hands i 

W. A, No, sir, I did not cut Ins tbroat ; but I ent tbe tbread 
of all Mg comforti^, and aborteued Mü days: I broke bis bcartby 
the raost ungrateful, nnnatural return, for tbe most tender and 
atfectionate treatment that fatber ever gave, or cMld could 
receive. " 

R. C. Well, I did not ask you about your father^ to extort 
tbis confesaion : I pray God give you repentance for it, and for- 
give tbat and all your otber sms ; but I askcd youbecause I aee 
that thougb you have not mucb learning, yet you are not so 
i^orant as some are in tbings that are good; tbat you have 
knovvn niore of religion, a great deal, tban you bave practised. 

W. A, Though you, sir, did not extort Lbc confess^ion tbat I 
make about ray father, conscience does ; and wlicncver we come 
to look back upon our livea, tbe sios against our induigent 
parents are certainly tbe first that touch us ; tbe woiinds they 
make lie deepeät» and the weight tbey leave will lie beavicst 
upon the mind, of all the sius we can commit. 

R. C. You tttlk too feellögly aad seoaibly for me, Atkina ; 
I cannot bear tt, 

W, A. You bear it, master! I dare say youknow notbing of iU 

R, C. Yes, Atkina ; every sbore, every hill, nay, I niay say 
evcry tree in this Island^ ia witnesa to tbe anguish of ray soill 
for my ingnititnde and bad usago of a good, tender father; a 
fatber mneb like yours, by your description : and I murdered 
my father as well as you, WiU Atkins ; but I think, for all that, 
my repentance is short of yours too, by a great deal, 

I woidd have said more, if 1 eould have restrained my paa- 



334 ADVENTURES OF 

sions ; but I thought this poor man's repentance was so mnch 
sincerer than mine, that I was going to leave off the disconrse 
and retire ; for I was surprised wiw wliat he had said, and 
thought that instead of my going about to teacb and instruct 
bim tbis man was made a teacber and instractor to me in a most 
Burprising and unexpected manner. 

I laid all this before the young cletgyman, who was greatly 
affected with it, and said to me, Did I not say, sir, that when 
this man was converted he would preach to us all ? I teil you, 
sir, if this one man be made a true penitent, here will be no 
need of me ; he will make Christians of all in the Island. — But 
having a little composed mjrself, I renewed my discourse with 
Will Atkins. But, Will, said I, how comes the sense of this 
matter to touch you just now ? 

W. A. Sir, you have set me about a work that has Struck a 
dart through my very soul ; I have been talking about God and 
religion to my wife, in order, as you directed me, to make a 
Christian of her, and she has preached such a sermon to me as 
I shall never forget while I live. 

R. C. No, no, it is not your wife has preached to you ; but 
when you were moving religious arguments to her, conscience 
has flung them back upon you. 

W. A. Ay, sir, with such force as is not to be resisted. 

R. C. Pray, Will, let us know what passed between you and 
your wife ; for I know something of it already. 

W. A. Sir, it is impossible to give you a fuU account of it ; 
I am too füll to hold it, and yet have no tongue to express it ; 
but let her have said what she wül, and though I cannot give 
you an account of it, this I can teil you, that I have resolved to 
amend and reform my life. 

R. C. But teil US some of it : how did you begin, Will? For 
this has been an extraordinary case, that is certain. She has 
preached a sermon, indeed, if she has wrought this upon you. 

W. A. Why, I first told her the nature of our laws about 
marriage, and what the reasons were that men and women were 
obliged to enter into such compacts, as it was neither in the 
power of one nor other to break ; that otherwise, Order and jus- 
tice could not be maintained, and men would run from their 
wives, and abandon their children, mix confusedly with one 
another, and neither families be kept entire, nor inheritances be 
settled by legal descent. 

R. C. You talk like a civilian. Will. Could you make her 
imderstand what you meant by inheritance and families ? They 
know no such things among the savages, but marry any how, 
without regard to relation, consanguinity, or famüy; brother 
and sister, nay, as I have been told, even the father and the 
daughter, and the son and the mother. 

W A. I believe, sir, you are misinformed, and my wife 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3S5 

assures me of the contrary, and that they abhor it; perhaps, 
for any farther relations, they may not be so exact as we are ; 
but she teils me they never touch one another in the near rela« 
tionship you speak of. 

R. C. Well, vhat did she say to what you told her ? 

W. A. She Said she liked it very well, and it was mach better 
than in her country. 

R. C. But did you teil her what marriage was ? 

W. A. Ay, ay ; there began our dialogue. I asked her if she 
would be married to me our way. She asked me what way that 
was. I told her marriage was appointed by God ; and here we 
had a stränge talk together, indeed, as ever man<iand wife had, 
I believe. 

N. B, This dialogue between WiU Atkins and his wife I took 
down in writing, just after he had told it me, which was as 
follows : 

Wife. Appointed by your God ! Why, have you a God in your 
country ? 

W. A. Yes, my dear, God is in every country. 

Wife. No your God in my country; my country have the 
great old Benamuckee God. 

W. A. Child, I am very unfit to show you who God is : God 
is in heaven, and made the heaven and the earth, the sea, and 
all that in them is. 

Wife. No makee de earth ; nu you God makee all earth ; no 
makee my country. 

Will Atkins laughed a little at her expression of God not 
making her country. 

Wife. No laugh ; why laugh me ? This nothing to laugh. 

He was justly reproved by his wife, for she was more serious 
than he at first. 

W. A. That's true indeed ; I will not laugh any more, my dear.. 

Wife, Why you say you God makee all ? 

W. A. Yes, child, our God made the whole world, and you and 
me, and all things ; for he is the only true God, and there is no 
God but him ; he lives for ever in heaven. 

Wife. Why you no teil me long ago ? 

W. A. That's true indeed ; but I have been a wicked wreteh, 
and have not only forgotten to acquaint thee with any thing 
before, but have lived without God in the world mysel£ 

Wife. What have you a great God in your country, you no 
know him? No say O to him? No do good thing for him? 
That no possible. 

W, A. It is true ; though, for all that, we live as if there was 
no God in heaven, or that he had no power on earth. 

Wife. But why God let you do so ? Why he no makee you 
good live ? 

W. A. It is all our own £Etult 



^36 ikDYENTURES OF • 

WlFE. But you saj me he is great, mucb great, liave mucli 
great power, can makee kill when he will, whv he no makee kill 
when you no serve him, no say O to him, no oe good mans ? 

W. A. That is tme, he might sinke me dead ; and I ought to 
expect it, for I have been a wicked wretch, that is tme ; bat God 
is mercifül, and does not deal with os as we deserve. 

WiFE. But then do you not teil God thankee for that too ? 

W. A. No, indeed, I have not thanked God for his mercy, any 
more than I have feared God for his power. 

WiFE. Then you God no God ; me no think believe he be such 
one, great much power, strong : no makee kill you, though you 
make him so much angry. 

W. A. What, will my wicked life hinder you from believingin 
God ? What a dreadful creature am I ! and what a sad truth 
is it, that the horrid lives of Christians hinder the conversiou 
of heathens ! 

• WiFE. How me think you have great much God up there 
(she points up to heaven) and yet no do well, no do good thing? 
Can he teil ? Sure he no teil what you do ? 

W. A. Yes, yes, he knows and sees all things ; he hears ns 
speakf sees what we do, knows what we think, though we do not 
speak. 

WiFE. What! he no hear you curse, swear, sneak de great 
damn? 

W. A. Yes, yes, he hears it alL 

WiFE. Where be then the much great power strong? 

W. A. He is merciful, that is all we can say for it ; and this 
proves him to be the true God ; he is God, and not man, and 
therefore we are not consumed. 

Here Will Atkins told us he was Struck withhorror, to think 
how he could teil his wife so clearly that God sees, and hears, 
and knows the secret thoughts of the heart, and all that we 
do, and yet that he had dared to do all the vüe things he had 
done. 

WiFE. Merciful! What you call that ? 

W. A. He is our father and maker, and he pities and 
spares us. 

Wife. So then he never makee kill, never angry when you do 
wicked ; then he no good himself, or no great able. 

W. A. Yes, yes, my dear, he is infinitely good and infinitely 
great, and able to punish too ; and sometimes, to show his justice 
and vengeance, he lets fly his anger to destroy sinners and make 
examples ;.many are cut off in their sins. 

WiFE. But no makee kill you yet ; then he teil you, may be, 
that he no makee you kill : so you makee de bargain with him, 
you do bad thing, he no be angry at you when he be angry at 
other maus. 

W. A. No, indeed; my sins are all presumptions upon Ms 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



337 



foodness; and lie would be infinitely jast if he destroyed me, as 
e lias done other men. 

WiF£. Well, and yet no kill, do makee you dead ; what you 
say to kim for tkat t You no teil liiin thankee for all tbat too ? 

W. A. I am an unthankful, un^ateful dog, ihat is trne. 

Wjfe. Why m no raakee you muck good better? you say be 
makee you. 

W. A. He made me, as be made all tbe world i it ig I have 
deformed myself and abused bis gooduesSj and made inyself an 
ftbominable wTetch, 

WiFE. 1 wisk you makee God know me ; I no makee kirn 
ancpry, 1 no do bad wicked thing. 

Here Will Atkins aaid bia beart aunk witbin bim, to bear a 
poor untaugbt creatiire desire to be taugbt to know God, and be 
such a wicked wretcb tkat be couM not aay one word to her about 
God, bat wbat tbe reproack tif bis own carriage would makc 
most irrational to ber to believe; nayj tbat already sbe bad told 
bim tbat sbe conld not believe in God, because be, tbat waa &o 
wicked, was not deatroyed. 

W. A. My dear, you mean, you wisb I couM fceacb you to know 
God, not God to know you; lur be knows you already, and every 
tkougkt in your beart. 

WiFF« Wby then ke know wbat I say to you now; he know 
me wisb to know bim * how skall me know wbo makee me ? 

W. A, Poor creature, be mnst teack tbce, I cannctt tearh tbce ; 
I will pray to bim to tcacb tbee to know bim, and forgive me, 
tbat am unwortky to teach tbee. 

Tbe poor tellow was in sncb an agony at her desiringj bim to 
make ber know God, aud her wisliing to know bim, tbat he said 
be feil down cm bis koees before ber, and prnvcd to God to en- 
ligbten hermind witb tbe saving knowledge ol Jesus Christ, and 
tu pardon bis sins, and accept of bis being tbe uoworthy mstru- 
ment of instructing ber in tbe principk^a of religion : afterwbich 
he sat down by her ag^aia, and tbeir dialogue went on. — This 
was tbe time wben wc saw him kncel down, and hold up bis 
Imnds. 

WiFE. What you put down tbe k nee for 7 Wliat you hold yp 
tbe band for? Wbat yon say? Wbo you fipeak to! What is 
all tbut t 

W. A, My dear, I bow my knees in token of my Submission 
to him tbat made me; I said O to him, as you cfdl it ; and as 
your old men do to tbeir idol Benamuckee ; tbat is, I pray cd 
to bim. 

WiPE. Wbat you say O to him for? 

W. A, I prayed to him to open your eyea, and your under- 
gtanding, that you raay know him, and be accepted by bim. 

WfFE. Can bo do tbat too t 

W, A* Yes, he can j he can do all tbings« 



338 ADVENTURE8 OF 

WiFE. But now he hear what you say? 

W. A. Yes ; he has bid us pray to him, and promised td 
hear us. 

WiFE. Bid you pray ? When he bid you ? How he bid you? 
What, you hear him speak? 

W. A. No, we do not hear him speuk; but he has revealed 
himself many ways to us. 

Here he was at a great losa to make her understand that God 
has revealed himself to us by his word, and what bis word was 
but at last he told it her thus : 

W. A. God has spoken to some good men in former days, 
even firom heaven, by piain words ; and God has inspired good 
men by his Spirit ; and they have written all his laws down in 
a book. 

WiFE. Me no understand that ; where is book? 

W. A. Alas I my poor creature, I have not this book ; but 
I hope I shall one time or other get it for you, and help you to 
read it. 

Here he embraced her with great afiection ; but with inex* 
pressible grief that he had not a Bible. 

WiF£. But how you makee me know that God teachee Üiem 
to write that book ? 

W. A. By the same rule that we know him to be God. 

WiFE. What rule? What way you know him ? 

W. A Because he teaches and commands nothing but what is 
good, righteous, and holy, and tends to make us perfectly good, 
as well as perfectly happy ; and because he forbids, and commands 
US to avoid, all that is wicked, that is evil in Uself, or evil in its 
consequence. 

WiFE. That me would understand, that me fain see ; if he 
teachee all good thing, he makee all good thing, he give all thing, 
he.hear me when I say O to him, as you do just now ; he makee 
me.good, if I wish to be good ; he spare me, no makee kill me, 
when I no be good : all this you say he do, yet he be great God : 
me'take, think, believe him to be great God j me say O to him 
with you, my dear. 

Here the poor man could forbear no longer, but raised her up, 
made her kneel by him, and he prayed to God aloud to instruct 
her in the knowledge of himself, by his Spirit ; and that by some 
good providence, if possible, she might some time or other come 
to have a Bible, that she might read the word of God, and be 
taught by it to know him. — This was the time that we saw him 
lift her up by the band, and saw him kneel down by her, as 
above. 

They had several other discourses, it seems, after this, too 
long to be set down here; and particularly she made him 
promise, that since he confessed his own life had been a wicked 
abominable course of provocations against God, that he would 



ROBINSON CRUSOE* 



339 



reform it, and not make God angry finy more ; lest lie sliould 
m^ike him dead, as shc call cd it, and then «he w ould he leffc 
alone, and never be tmight to know this God bttter ; and lest 
he sliould be miBerabie, as he liad told her wicked men would 
be, aller death* 

TLis was a Btrange account, and very afibcting to us both^ 
biit parlicidarly to the yoiing clergyman ; he was indeed won- 
derfully surpriaed witli it^ but tmder the greatest affliction imag^- 
nabk üiat he coutd not talk to her, that he eould not speak 
En^iish, to make her iinderstand him ; and as she spoke but 
very broken Engliab, lie could not understaod her; however^ he 
turnt^d himself to me, and told me tliat lie believed that there 
must be more to do with this woman than to marry her. I did 
not underatand him at firat, bot at Icngth he exphüned himself, 
via. that she oug^lit to be bapfcized. i a^eed with him in that 

Eart readdy, and was for goin^ aboot it presently. No, no ; 
old, SIT, Said he ; thouo^li I W(iiild have ht^r he biiptiÄed by all 
means, yet I must observc that Will Atkins, her husband, has 
indeed brouj^ht her, in a wonderful manner, to be willing to 
embrace a relipous life, and has ^ven her just ideas of the being 
of a God ; of bis power, justice, and mercy ; yet I desire to know 
of him if he has said anylhing to her of Jesus Christj and of the 
salvation of sinners ; of the nature of faith in him, and redemp- 
tion by him ; of the Iloly Spirit, the resurrection, the last jiidg- 
ment, and a fiiture state» 

I called Will Atkirm again, and asked liim ; but the poor fei- 
low feil immediately into tcars, and told ua he ho^ said sometbing 
to her of all those tbingä^ but that he was himself so wicked a 
creature, and bis owii conscience so reproached him with hia 
horrid unpidly life, that he trembled at the apprehensions that 
her knowledgeof him shouldleasen the attention she shouldgive 
to those thingB, and makc her rather contcmn rcli°^ou than 
receive it ; but he was assured, he said, that her mind was so 
disposed to receive due impreasiona of all those things, and that 
if 1 would but discourse with her, she would make it appear to 
my aatisfactinn that my labour would not bc lost upon her. 

Accordinglyt I called her in^ and placing myself as Interpreter 
between my religious priest and the woman, I entreatcd him to 
bcgin with her ; but sure Buch a sermon was never preached by 
a popish pneat in these latter agea of the world : and as I told 
iiim, I thought he had all the zeal, all the knuwledgc, all the 
sincerity of a Christian, without the error of a Roman catholic ; 
aud that I took him to be auch a clergyman as the Rnnian 
bishopa wete, before the church of Rome assumed Bpiritiial 
»overeignty over the cousciences of men. In a word, he brought 
the poor woman to cmhrace the knowledge of Christ, and of 
redemptiun by him^ not with wonder and astonishment ouly, as 
shc diu the first notions of a God, but with joy aud faith; witb 



840 ADVENTURES OF 

an affection, and a surprising degree of understanding, scarce to 
be imagined, much less to be expressed ; and. at her own request» 
ehe was baptized. 

When he was preparing to baptize her, I entreated him that 
he would perform that office with some caution, that the man 
might not perceive he was of the Roman church, if possible, 
because of other ill consequences which might attend a difierence 
among us in that very religion which we were instmcting the 
other in. He told me that as he had no consecrated chapel, nor 
proper things for the office, I should see he would do it in a man- 
ner that I should not know by it that he was a Roman catholie 
himself, if I had not known it before ; and so he did ; for saying 
only some words over to himself in Latin, which I could not un- 
derstand, he poured a wbole dishful of water upon the woman's 
■ head, pronouncing in French very loud, " Mary," (which was 
the name her husband desired me to give her, for I was her god- 
father,) " I baptize thee in the name of the Father, and of the 
Son, and of the Holy Ghost;" so that none could know any- 
thing by it what religion he was of. He gave the benediction 
afberwards in Latin, but either Will Atkins did not know but it 
was French, or eise did not take notice of it at that time. 

As soon as this was over, we married them^ and after the 
marriage was over, he turned to Will Atkins, and in a very 
affectionate manner exhorted him, not only to persevere in that 
good disposition he was in, but to support the convictions that 
were upon him by a resolution to reform bis life ; told him it 
was in vain to say he repented if he did not forsake bis crimes : 
represented to him how God had honoured him with being the 
instrument of bringing bis wife to the knowledge of the Christian 
religion, and that he should be careful he did not dishonour the 
grace of God ; and that if he did, be would see the heathen a 
better Christian tban himself; the savage converted, and the 
instrument cast away. He said a great many good things to 
them botb ; and then recommending them to God's goodness, 
gave them the benediction again, I repeating every thing to them 
in English ; and thus ended the ceremony. I think it was the 
most pleasant and agreeable day to me that ever I passed in 
my whole life. 

But my clergyman had not done yet ; his thoughts hung con- 
tinually upon the conversion of the thirty-seven savages, and 
fain he would bave stayed upon the Island to have undertaken 
it ; but I convinced him, first, that his undertaking was imprac- 
ticable in itself ; and, secondly, that perhaps I would put it into 
a way of being done in his absence to his satisfaction; of which 
by and by. 

Having thus brought the affairs of the Island to a narrow 
compass, I was preparing to go on board the ship, when the 
young man I had taken out of the famished ship 's Company 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



311 



carae to me, and toXä me he uiiderstood I had a dergjTcnan with 
me, ftiid tbat I had aiuäetl die Engliahmen to be mamed to the 
8avag:es ; that he had a match, too, which he desired might he 
fioiähed belbre I went, hetween two ChiistiauSi which he hoped 
would not he disagreeable to me, 

I knew this must he the young woman who was hia mother-a 
servant, for there was no other Christian M'oraan on the iisland; 
so I he^^an to persuade him not to do anj thin^ ofthat kind raahly, 
or hecause he found himself in this soiitary circiimstance. I re- 
preaented to him that he had some considerable Bubstance in the 
World, and good frienda, aa I understood hy himself^ and the 
maid also ; that the maid was not only poor, and a servant, hut 
was unequal to him^ she heing six or aeven-and-twentv years 
okl, and he not heing tseventeen or eighteen ; that he miglit very 
probably, with my assistance, make a remove from thia wilder- 
iiess, and come into his own coimtry ^ain; and ihat theu it 
would be a thousand to one hut he would repent his choice, 
and the disUke of that circuniatance mio^ht be disadvanta^cous 
to hoth. I was going to say more, hut he interrupted me, 
smiling, and told me, with a great deal of modesty, that I mis- 
took in my guesses^ that he had nothing of that kind in his 
thoughts; and he was yery glad to hear that I had an intent of 
piitting them in a way to see their own country again ; and 
nothing should havc put him npoo staying there, hut that. the 
voyage I was going was so exceeding long and hazardous, and 
ivould carry bim quite out of the reach of all his friends ; that 
he had nothing to desire of me, hut that I would settlc him in 
some httle property in the Island wlierc he was, give him a ser- 
vant or two, and some few necessaries, and he would settle 
liimself here like a phinter, waiting the good üme when, if ever 
I returncd to England, I wonld redeem them; and hopcd I would 
not be unmindful of him whcn [ came to England : tbat he would 
give me some letters to his frienda in London, to let them kiiow 
how good I had heen to him, and in what part of the World, and 
what circumstances l had left him in ; and he promiHed nie that 
whenever 1 redecmed him^ the plantation, and all the improve- 
ments he had made upon it, let the value be what it would, 
shotüd be wholly raine. 

His diseourae was very prettily delivered, oonsidering bis youth, 
and was the more agreeable to me, bec^use he told me positively 
the match was not for himself. I gave him all possible assu* 
rances that if I hved to come aafe to England, I would delivcr 
his letters, and do his business eifectually; and that he might 
depend 1 ahould never forget the circumstances 1 had left him 
in : but still I was impatient to know who was the person to be 
married : upon whlch he told me it was my Jack-of-all-trade« 
and his maid Susan* I was most agreeably aurprised when he 
named the match ; for indeed I thought it very suitable« llie 



342 ADVENTURE8 OF 

character of that man I have given already ; and as for the ma^ 
she was a very honest, modest, sober, and religious yonng wo- 
man ; had a very good share of sense, was agreeable enough in 
her person, spoke very handsomely, and to the ptu^ose, always 
with decency and good manners, and neither too backward to 
speak, when requisite, nor impertinently forward, when it was 
not her business : very handy and housewifely, and an excellent 
manager ; fit, indeed, to have been govemess to the whole Island, 
and she knew'very well how to behave in every respect. 

The match being proposed in this manner, we married them 
the same day ; and as I was father at the altar, as I may say, 
and gave her away, so I gave her a portion ; for I appointed her 
and her husband a handsome large space of ground for their 
plantation'; and, indeed, this match, and the proposal the young 
gentleman made to give him a small property in the Island, put 
me upon parcelling it out amongst them, that they m^ht not 
quarrel auerwards about their Situation. 

This sharing out the land to them I lefb to Will Atkins, who 
was now grown a sober, grave, managing fellow, perfecüy re- 
formed, exceedingly pious and religious, and, as far as I may be 
allowed to speak positively in such a case, I verily believe he was 
a true penitent. He divided things so justly, and so much to 
every one's satisfaction, that they only desired one general 
writmg imder my band for the whole, which I caused to be drawn 
up, and signed and sealed to them, setting out the bounds and 
Situation of every man's plantation, and testifying that I gave 
them thereby severally a right to the whole possession and in- 
heritance of the respective plantations or farms, with their im- 
provements, to them and their heirs, reserving all the rest of 
the Island as my own property, and a tertain rent for every par- 
ticular plantation after eleven years, if I, or any one from me, 
or in my name, came to demand it, producing an attested copy 
of the same writing. 

As to the government and laws among them, I told them I was 
not capable of giving them better rules than they were able to 
give themselves ; only I made them promise me to live in love 
and good neighbourhood with one another ; and so I prepared 
to leave them. 

One thing I must not omit, and that is, that being now settled 
in a kind of Commonwealth among themselves, and having much 
business in band, it was but odd to have seven-and-thirty Indians 
live in a nook of the Island, independent, and, indeed, unem- 
ployed; for, excepting the providing themselves food, which 
they had difficulty enough to do sometimes, they had no man- 
ner of business or property to manage. I proposed, therefore, 
to the govemor Spaniard, that he should go to them, with 
Friday's father, and propose to them to remove, and either 
plant for themselves^ or take them into their several families 



R0BI17S0N CRUSOE. 



313 



AS aen^ftnta, to be mftintained for their laboiiTj but witliout being 
absolute slaves ; for I woiild not admit tbem to makc them slaves 
by force, by any means j because they had their liberty given them 
bj (Kapitulation^ as it wcre articles of surrender, whicb tbey ougbt 
not to break. 

They moat wiQingly embraced tlie proposal, and came all 
very cheerfiil aloug vdth iiim : so we allotted them laud^ and 
plautatioris, wliicli tbree or foiir accepted of, but all the rest 
chose tu be eniployed as servants in the eeveral farailies we had 
eettled ; and tUurt iny colony was in a manner settled, as fol- 
lows : — The Spaniards posscsscd my orig:inal habitation, whidi 
was the capital city, and extended llieir plantations all aloni^ 
the aide of the brook, which made tbe creek that 1 bave so t>fteji 
described* as far as my bower ; and as tliey increased tbeir cul- 
ture, it weot always eastward, Tlie Kögligh lived in the north- 
eftst part, where Will Atkins and bis corarades begauj and came 
on southward and south-west^ towarda the back part of the 
Spaniarda ; and every plantation had a great addition of land to 
take in, if they found occasion, so tbat they need not jostlc one 
anotber for want of moni. All the cast end of the island was 
left nninhabited, tbat if any of the savages ahoulcl come on ahore 
thereonly for their usual customary barbarities, thev might come 
and go ; if they distiirbed nobody, nobody woiild disttürb them ; 
and no doubt but they vvere aften ashore, and went away again, 
for I never heard tbat thü planters were ever attacked or dis- 
torbed any more. 

It now came into my thoughts tbat I had hinted to my friend 
the clergyman tbat thcwork of Converting the savagea raight 
perhaps be set on fuot in bis absence to his HatisfactioUi aud 
told nim tbat now I thoiight it was put in a fair way ; for the 
savages being thus divided among tbe Christians, if they would 
but every one of them do their part vvith those wliich came under 
their hands, I höped it might have a very good effcct. 

He agreed preHcnÜy in that, If they did their part. But how, 
says he, shalJ we obtain that of them? I told bim we would 
call them all together, and leave it in cbarge with them, or go 
to them, one by one, whieh he thought best ; so we divided it, 
he to speak to the Spaniards, who were aU papists, and 1 to 
the Englisb, who were all p rotes tan ts ; and we recommendcd it 
camestly to them, and made them promiae that they woiüd 
never make any distinction of papist or protcstant in their 
exhortiüg the savages to turn Christians, but teach Ihera the 
g^eneral knowledge of the true God, and of their Saviour Jesus 
Chriat ; and they likewise promised us that they would never 
bave any differences or disputes one with another about re- 
ligion. 

Wben I came to Will Atkins 's house (I may call it so, for 
such a houäc, or such a piecc of baakct-work, I belle ve. was 



844 • ADVENTÜRES OP 

not Standing in tbe world again), tbere I found tlie yonng 
woman I have mentioned above, and Will Atkins's wife, were 
become intimates; and this pnident, religious yoong woman, 
had perfected the work Will Atkins had begun : and though it 
was not above four days after what I have related, yet the 
new-baptized savage woman was made such a Christian as I 
have seldora heard of in all my Observation or conversation in 
the World. 

It came next into my mind, in the moming before I wen^ to 
them, that amongst all the needful things I had to leave vnth 
them, I had not left them a Bible, in which I showed myself less 
considering for them than my good friend the widow was for me, 
when she sent me the cargo of a hundred pounds firom Lisbon, 
where she packed up three Bibles and a prayer-book. How- 
ever, the good woman's charity had a greater extent than ever 
she imagined, for they were reserved for the comfort and Instruc- 
tion of those that made much better use of them than I had done. 

I took one of the Bibles in my pocket, and when I came to 
Will Atkins's tent, or house, and found the young woman and 
Atkins's baptized wife had been discoursing of reli^on together, 
for Will Atkins told it me with a great deal of joy, I asked 
if they were together now, and he said yes ; so I went into 
the house, and he with me, and we found them together very 
earnest in discourse. O sir, says Will Atkins, when God has 
sinners to reconcile to himself, and aliens to bring home, he 
never wants a messenger; my wife has got a new instructor; 
I knew I was as unworthy as I was incapable of that work ; that 
young woman has been sent hither from heaven ; she is enough 
to convert a whole Island of savages. The young woman 
blushed, and rose up to go away, but I desired her to sit stiQ; 
I told her she had a good work upon her hands, and I hoped God 
would bless her in it. 

We talked a little, and I did not perceive they had any book 
among them, though I did not ask : but I put my band into my 
pocket, and pulied out my Bible ; Here, says I to Atkins, I have 
brought you an assistant that perhaps you had not before. The 
man was so confounded that he was not able to speak for some 
time ; but recovering himself, he takes it with both his hands, 
and turning to his wife, Here, my dear, says he, did I not teil 
you OUT God, though he lives above, could hear what we saidt 
Here's the book I prayed for when you and I kneeled down 
under the bush ; now God has heard us, and sent it. When 
he had said so, the man feil into such transports of passionate 
joy, that between the joy of having it, and giving God thanks 
for it, the tears ran down his face like a child that was 
crying. 

The woman was surprised, and was like to have run into a 
mistake that none of us were aware of, for she firmiy believed 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



345 



God had sent tlie book upon her bushand'a petition. It ia true, 
Üiat pro^idendally it was so^ and migbt bc taken so in a conae- 
quent sense ; but I bebeve it vvoidd bave been no dülieult matter, 
at tbat timc, to bave persuadcd tbe poor woman to bave believed 
that an express messeng^er came from beaven on pui-pose to bring 
that individiial book ; but it was too serious a matter to snffer 
any delusion to take place ; so I tnrned to the 3 onog woman, and 
told bcr vre did not desire toimpose npon the nevv «.^onvert, in her 
first and more Ignorant underütanding^ of thiiig^, and beg:ged her 
to explain to her that God may be very properlj said to answer 
our petitiona wben, in the course of liis providence, such 
tliings are in a particidar manntir bronarht to paas as we peü- 
tioned for; but we did not expect returns l'rora Ileaven in a 
miraeidous and particnlar mouner, and it is our mercy^ tbat it is 
not so, 

This the yonng woman did aflerwards effectuallv, so tbat 
tliere waa, I assure you, no priej^tcratt used bere ; and I sboiüd 
havethougbfcit onc of tbe most iinjuBtifiable fraiids in the world 
to bave bad it so. Biit tbe surprise of joy upon Will Atkina 
is really not to be expressed j and tbere, we may be sure, was 
no delufiion, Sure no man was ever more tbankfil in the world 
for anything of its kind than be was for tbe Bible ; nor, I beiieve, 
never anv man was glad of a Bible from a better principle ; and 
tliough he bad heen a most protlLgate creatnrej beadstron^, 
Ihriotts, and desperately wicked, yet this man is a standiog rnle 
to US all Ibr the well instTuctiug cbildren, viz. that parents abould 
never gii'e over to teach and instruct, nor ever dcspair of the 
succcss of tbeir endeavonr«, lot tbe childrcn be ever so reßrac* 
tory, or, to appenrance^ insensible of Instruction ; for, if ever 
Godt wi bis providence, touches tbe conscience of such, the force 
of their educalion returns upon them, and the early instraction 
of parents 13 not lost, though it niay bave been many years laid 
ftsleep, but, aome time or otber, tbey may find tbe benelit of it, 
Thns it was with this poor man: liowever ijj^noraiit he was of 
reli^on and Christian kuowledge, he found be bfid some to do 
with now more ignorant tban bimself, and that tbe least part of 
the instraction of bis good fatber that now came to bis mind 
Vfaa of use to bim. 

Among tbe rest it occurred to bim» he said» how bis father 
used to LDsist ho much on tbe inexpressible vakie of tbe Bible, 
the privilege and blessing of it to nationa, families, and i^iersons i 
but be never entertained tbe least notion of tbe worth of it tili 
now, wben being to talk to heathens, savagres, and barbarians, 
lie wanied tbe belp of the w ritten onicle lor bis assistanee, 

The youopj woman was glad of it also for the prescnt orcasion» 
tbough »be bad one, and so bad the youth. on hoard our ship, 
among tbeir goods, vvbich were not yet brou^ht on sbore. And 
now having said so many things of this young woman, 1 cannot 



346 ADYENTURES OF 

omit telling one story more of her and mysel( which bas some- 
tliins in it very informing and remarkable. 

I have related to what extremity the poor young woman was 
reduced, Low her mistress was starved to death, and died on 
board that unhappy ship we met at sea, and how the whole ship's 
Company was reduced to the last extremity. The genüewoman 
and her son, and this maid, were first hardly nsed, as to pro-vi- 
sions, and at last tolally neglected and starved ; that is to say, 
brou^ht to the last extremity of hunger. — One day, being dis- 
coursing with her on the extremities they suffered, I asked her 
if she could describe, by what she had feit, what it was to starve, 
and how it appeared ? She told me she believed she conld, and 
she told her tale very distinctly, thus : 

First, sir, said she, we had for some days fared exceeding 
hard, and suffered very great hunger : but at last we were 
wholly without food of any kind, except sugar, and a little wine 
and water. The first day, after I had received no food at 
all, I found myself, towards evening, first empty and sick at 
the stomach, and nearer night much inclined to yawning and 
sleep. I laid down on a couch in the great cabin to sleep, 
and slept about three hours, and awaked a little refreshed, 
having taken a glass of wine when 1 lay do^n: after being 
about three hours awake, it being about five o*clock in the 
morning, I found myself empty, and my stomach sickish, and 
lay down again, but could not sleep at all, being very faint and 
ill ; and thus I continued all the second day, with a stränge 
variety, first hungry, then sick again, with retchings to vomit. 
The second night, being obliged to go to bed again without 
any food, more than a draught of fresh water, and being asleep, 
I dreamed I was at Barbadoes, and that the market was 
mightily stocked with provisions ; that I bought some for my 
mistress, and went and dined very heartily. I thought my 
stomach was as füll after this as it would have been after a 
good dinner ; but when I awaked, I was exceedingly sunk in 
my spirits to find myself in the extremity of famine. The last 
glass of wine we had I drank, and put sugar in it, because of 
its having some spirit to supply nourishment ; but there being 
no substance in the stomach for the digesting office to work 
upon, I found the only effect of the wine was, to raise dis- 
agreeable fumes from the stomach into the head ; and I lay, 
as they told me, stupid and senseless, as one drunk, for some 
time. The third day, in the morning, after a night of stränge, 
confused, and inconsistent dreams, and rather dozing than 
sleeping, I awaked ravenous and furious with hunger ; and I 
question, had not my understanding returned and conquered 
it, whether, if I had been a mother, and had» had a little child 
with me, its life would have been safe or not. This lasted 
about three hours j during which time I was twice raging mad 



' EOBINSON CRUSOE* 347 

AS ftny creature in BedLam, as my young master told me, and as 
he can now inform you. 

In one of tliese üt& of liinacy or distraction I feil down, and 
»tnick my face against the corner of a palict bed, in wliida my 
mistress iay, and, with the hlow, the blood pishcd out of my 
nosc ; and tbe cabin-boy bringing me a little basin, I aat down 
and bled intö it a great deal ; and slb tbe blood came from me, 
I came to myself» and tbe vioknce of tbe flanic or fever I was in 
abatedj and so did the ravenons part of tbe liunger. Then l ^ew 
sick, and retcbed to vomit, but could not, for I bad notbing in 
my stomacb to bring up. After I bad bled some time, I swooned, 
and tbey all believed I was dead ; bnt I came to myself soon 
after, and tben bad a most dreadfal pain in my stomacb, not to 
be dcscribed, not like tbe cxAic^ but n gnawing, eager pain for 
food I and towards the night it went otY, witb a kind of carnest 
mrisbing or longing^ for food, something like, as I 9iippose, tlie 
longing of a woman witb cbild. I took anotber draugbt of water, 
with sugar in it; bnt my stomacb loatbed tbe sogar, and brougbt 
it all np again : tben I took a draugbt of water w itbout eugar, 
and tbat stayed with me ; and I laid me down npon tbe befl, 
praying mostlieartily tbat it wonld please God to take me nway ; 
and coraposing my mind in bopes of it, I slumbered awhile, and 
tben wakiüg, thought myself dying, being light witb vapours 
firom an empty ätomacli ; I recoramended my sonl tben to God, 
and earnestly wisbed tbat somebody w ould tbrow me ioto the 
sea. 

All tbis while my mistress Jay by me, just, as I tbonght, ex- 
piring, but bore it with much more patience tban I ; gave tbe 
last bit of bread sbe bad left to her cbildj my yonng master, who 
would not bave taken it, but sbe obliged bim to eat it ; and I 
believe it aaved bis lifo. 

Towards tbe moming I slept again j and wben I awoke, I feil 
into Ä violent passion of crying, and after tbat bad a aecoüd fit 
of violent hunger : I got np raveuous, and in a most dreadful 
condition ; bad my mistress been dead, as mucb as 1 loved her, l 
am certain 1 shoiild bave eaten a piece of her flcsb witb as much 
relish, and as unconcemed, as ever I did eat tbe üesb of any 
creature appointed for foodj and oncc or twice I was going, to 
bite my own arm: at last I saw tbe basin in which waa tbo 
blood r had bled at my nose tbe day before: I ran to it, and 
swallowed it witb such baste, and such a greedy appctite, as if 
I wondercd nobody had tiiken it before, and afraid it should be 
taken from me now. After it was down, tbougb tbe tboughts of 
it fiUed me with horror, yet it checked the fit of bunger, and 
I took another draugbt of water, and was composed and refre^hed 
for aome bours after, Tbis was tbe fourtb day ; and tbus I beU 
it tili towards night ; wbea, witbin tbe compass of three hourst 
I bad all tbe several circumstances over again, one alter another, 

A A 



348 ADVENTURESOF 

viz. sick, sleepy, eagerly hongry, pain in the stomach, tben 
ravenous again, tben sick, then lunatic, then crying, then raven- 
oivi again, and so every quarter of an hour ; and my strength 
wasted exceedingly : at night I laid me down, having no comfort 
but in the hope that I should die before moming. 

All this night I had no sleep ; but the hunger was now tomed 
into a disease ; and I had a terrible colic and griping, by wind, 
instead of food, having found its way into the bowels ; and in 
this condition I lay tili morning, when I was surpnsed witb the 
cries and lamentations of my young master, who called out to 
me that bis mother was dead : I lifted myself up a little, for 
I had not strength to rise, but found she was not dead, though 
she was able to give very little signs of life. 

I had then such conviüsions in my stomach, for want of some 
sustenance, that I cannot describe ; witb such frequent throes 
and pangs of appetite, that nothing but the tortures of death 
can imitate ; and in this condition I was when I heard the sea- 
men above cry out, A sail ! a sail ! and halloo and jump about 
as if they were distracted. 

I was not able to get off from the bed, and my mistress much 
less ; and my young master was so sick, that I thought he had 
been expiring ; so we could not open the cabin door, or get any 
account what it was that occasioned such confusion; nor liad we 
any conversation witb the ship's Company for two days, they 
having told us that they had not a mouthful of anytbing to eat 
in the ship ; and this they told us afterwards, they thought we 
had been dead. It was this dreadful condition we were in when 
you were sent to save our lives : and how you found us, sir, you 
know as well as I, and better too. 

This was her own relation, and is such a distinct account of 
starving to death, as, I confess, I never met with, and was ex- 
ceeding entertaining to me. I am the rather apt to believe it 
to be a true account, because the youth gave me an «iccount ol 
a good part of it; though, I must own, not so distinct and 
so feeling as the maid: and the rather, because it seems his 
mother fed bim at the price of her own life ; but the poor maid, 
though her Constitution being stronger than that of her mis- 
tress, who was in years, and a weakly woman too, she might 
struggle harder with it : I say, the poor maid might be sup- 
posed to feel the extremity something sooner than her mistress, 
who might be aUowed to keep the last bit something loiiger 
than she parted with any to relieve the maid. No question, 
as the case is here related, if our ship, or some other, nad not 
so providentially met them, a few days more would have ended 
all their lives, unless they had prevented it by eating one 
another ; and that even, as their case stood, would have served 
them but a little while, they being five hundred leagues from 
any land, or any possibility of relief, other than in the miracu- 



HOBINSON CRÜ80E, 



SI9 



Ions manner it happened; but tliis is bv tbe WAy; I retum to 
my disp<Jsidon of tfiings amoncr the people. 

And, firat, itis to be obsen^ed bere, tbat for many reasons T did 
not tliink fit to let theiii know aiiy thing of tbe sloop 1 hnd fraraed, 
and wbicb I thougbt of setün^ up among them ; for I tbund, at 
least at ray first comingi such seeds ofdivisiona amongtbem, tbat 
I saw plainly, had I sei iip tbe sloop, and left it among tbem, 
tbey TTould, npon every liglit disguat, bave separated, and gone 
away firom one another, or perbaps bave turned piratea, and so 
made the island a den of tbievea, instead of a plantation of sober 
and religiotts people, as I inten (Ted it nor did I leave the two 

Siece^ of brass cannon tbat I bad ou board, or tbe two quarter- 
eck guns tbat my nepbew took extraordinary, for the same 
reason : I thougbt it was enough to qnaUiy' Ihem for a defejisive 
war against any tbat sboidd invade ihemt but not to aet them 
up for an offensive war, or to go abroad to attack otbers ; which, 
in tbe end, would only bring nun and deatruction upon tbem : 
I reserved the aloop, therefore, and tbe g:ansj for their aervice 
anotber way, as I sbjdl observe in ita place. 

Having now donc i\itli the island, I left them all in good cir- 
cumstances, and in a Umirisbing condition, and went on board 
my sbip again tbe 6tb of May, having been about twenty-five 
days among them ; and as tbey wcre all resolved to stay upon the 
Island tili 1 came to remove them, I promised to send thera far^ 
tber rebef from tbe Brazils» if I could possibly find an opportunity : 
and, partictdarlv, I promised to send them some cattle, such as 
aheep, bogs, antl cows ; as to tbe two cowa and calves whicb 1 
brought firom England, we bad been obliged, by the lengtb of 
our voyage, to kill them at sea, for want of hay to feed them. 




ÄA2 



350 



ADVENTUHES OF 



^< 



i^r^ 



-4\ 



]lt^Mi\'^:..^\ 



SECTION XL. 

ENCOtTKTEE WITfr SAVAGES AT SEA. — FRIDAT'S DEATH. — ROBÜJSON 
riNDS HIS FORMEll PARTNER IN THE BRAZILS.— SAILS POR TJIE 
EAST IXDIES. 

The ueitt day, ^viug them a salute of fi ve giins at paTting, wc set 
sailj and arrived at tlie bay of All Saiuts, m the Brazils, in about 
twenty-two daya^ meeting notbing rcmarkable ia our passage but 
this : that about three days ai'ter we bad sailed^ being becalmed, 
and the current scttin^ strong tu tbe E,N. E,, running, as it wefe, 
into a bay or gulf oe the land side^ we were driven soinetliingout 
of our course, and once or twice our men cried oTit, Land to the 
eastward j but wbetlier it was tbe coniiiieut or Islands we could 
not teil by any rocana. BuL tbe tbird day, towards evening, the 
sea smoothj and the weather calitij we saw tbe sea, as it were, 
covered tov^ards the iand wiih soniething very black j not being 
able to discover what it was, tili after somc time^ our chief mate, 
going iip the main-shrouds a little way, and lookin^ at ihem with 
a perspective, cried out it w as an army, I could not imagine 
what be meant by an army^ and tbwarted bim a little hasdly. 
Nay, öir, aays be, don't be angry, ibr 'ds an army, and a fleet 
too ; for I believe tbere are a tbousand canoes, and you may see 
them paddle along^ for tbcy are comirig towards us apace. 

I was a little Burprised, then.iudeed^ and 30 was my nephewthe 
captairi-forhebadheardsiichterrihle stories of them in tbe island, 
and having never becn in tbose seas before, tbat be could not teil 
what to tbinkof it| but said» two or tbree times, we should all be 
devoured. I must confess, considering w e were becalmed, and the 
current set strong towards tbe sbore, I liked it tbe worse; bow- 
ever, I bade them not be ftfraid, hut bring tbe sbip to an anchor 
aa aoon as we came so ncar to know that we must engage them. 

The weather continued calm, and they came on apace 
towards na j so I gave order to come to an anchor, and fori 



ROBINSOW CRUSOE. 



351 



all our sails : as for tlie sava^ea» 1 told tbem they had nothiog 
to feAF but fire, and therefore they shotild ^et tbeir boats out, 
and fasten tliem^ one close by tbe head, and tbe other by the 
Stern, and man t!iem both well, aml wait the issue in tbat 
pOBture: this 1 did^ tbat the men in the boats might be ready 
witb sheets and bucketü to put out any fire these savages would 
endeavour to fix to the ontside of th« ship. 

In this poatiire we iay by ibr them, and in a little while they 
came up with na; but never was auch a horrid sight gecti hy 
Cbriatiuna : ibou^b my mate wrs much mistaken in bis calcida- 
tion of their number, yet when they came n|> wc reckoned about 
a hundred and twenty-six ; some of thcm bad sixteen or seveo- 
teen men in tlietnt somc more, and the least six or seven* 

When they came nearer to us, they seemed to be Struck with 
wonder and astonisbment, aa at a sight which doubtlesa they 
had never seen before; nor could they, at lirst, as we all: er- 
warda understood, know wbat to make of us ; they came boldly 
ujj, however, very near to ns, and seemed to go about to row 
round ua; bnl wc callcd to our men in the boats not to let tbem 
come too near tbem, This very ordeT brouji:bt ua to an en^ag^e- 
ment with tbem, vrithont our desi^ing it: for five or six of the 
large canoes came so near our lonj^boat that our men bcckoned 
with their handB to keep tbem hntik, which they understood 
very well, and went back, but at tbeir retreat about fiily arrowa 
came on board us from tbose boats, and one of our men in the 
longboat w as very much woiinded. However, I caUed to tbem 
not to fire by any meana ; but we banded down aome deal boards 
into tbe boat» and the carpenter presently sct np a kind of fence, 
like waste boards, to cover them from the arrows of the s avages, 
if they should shoot aojain. 

About half an hour afterwards they all came up in a body 
aatern of us, and so iiear» as that we could ea&ily diacern what 
they were, tbough we could not teil tbeir design ; and I easily 
fbund they were some of my oM frienda, the aame sort of 
Bavagea that I had been used to engage with; and in a Hhort 
time more they rowed a little farther out to sea, tili they carac 
directly broadside with us, and tben rowed down straijcht upon 
ua, tili they came so near that they could hear ua speaki upon 
thia I ordcred all my men to keep cloae, lest they snould ahoot 
any more arrows, and niade all oor giins ready; but being so 
near as to be within hearing^ I made Friday go out upon the 
deck, and call out aloud to them in bia language, to know 
what they meant; whicb accordingly be did. Whether they 
understood liira or not» that I knew not; but as soon as he had 
called to them, six of them, who wcrc in the Ibremoat or nighest 
boat to US, tumed their canoes from us, and stooping down, 
öbowcd uä their naked backaides, just aa if, in English, aaving 
your prcsence, they had bid us kiss : whether this was a 



352 ADVENTURES OF 

defiance or challenge we knew not, or whether it was done in 
mere contempt, or as a signal to the rest; but immediately 
Friday cried out they were going to shoot, and, unhappily for 
him, poor fellow, they let fiy about three bundred of their 
arrows, and, to my inexpressible grief, killed poor Friday, no 
other man being in tbeir sigbt. Tbe poor fellow was shot with 
no less tban tbree arrows, and about tbree more feil very near 
bim ' such unlucky marksmen they were ! 

I was so enraged at tbe loss of my old trusty servant and 
companion, tbat I immediately ordered five guns to be loaded 
witb small shot, and four witb great, and gave tbem such a 
broadside as they had never heard in tbeir lives before, to be 
sure. They were not above half a cable lengtb off when we 
fired ; and our gunners took tbeir aim so well Üiat three or four 
of tbeir canoes were overset, as we had reason to believe, by 
one shot only. 

The ill manners of turning up their bare backsides to us gave 
US no great offence; neither did I know for certain whether 
that which would pass for the greatest contempt among us 
might be understood so by them or not ; therefore, in retum, 
I had only resolved to have fired four or five guns at them 
with powder only, which I knew would frighten them. sufEi* 
ciently : but when they shot atus directly, with all the fury they 
were capable of, and especially as they had killed my poor Friday, 
whom 1 so entirely loved and valued, and who, inaeed, so well 
deserved it, I thought my seif not only justifiable before God and 
man, but would have been very glad if I could have overset every 
canoe there, and drowned every one of them. 

I can neither teil how many we killed, nor how many we 
wounded, at this broadside, but sure such a fright and hurry 
never was seen among such a multitude ; there were tbirteen or 
fourteen of their canoes split and overset in all, and the men all 
set a swimming : the rest, frightened out of their wits, scoured 
away as fast as they could, taking but little care to save those 
whose boats were split or spoiled with our shot ; so I suppose 
that many of them were lost; and our men took up one poor 
fellow swimming for bis life, above an hour after they were all 
gone. 

The small shot from our cannon must needs kill and wound a 
great many ; but, in short, we never knew any thing how it went 
wdth them, for they fled so fast, that in three hours, or thereabouts, 
we could not see above three or four straggling canoes, nor did 
we ever see the rest any more ; for a breeze of wind springing 
up the same evening, we weighed, and set sail for the Brazils. 

We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was so sullen 
that he would neither eat nor speak, and we all fancied he 
would starve himself to death : but I took a way to eure him ; 
for I made them take him and turn him into the longboat, and 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

make Mm beheve they would tos« bim Liito tbe sea again, nnd so 
leave Mm wliere thcry found Mm, if he would not «peak : nor 
would that do, but tliey really did throw liim into the sea, and 
came away from him , and tlien he followed tliem, for lie svvam 
like a cork, and called lo tbem, in bis ton«^e, tlioügli tbey knew 
not one word of wbat lie aaid : however, at last tbey toük bim in 
again« and t!ien be began to be more tractable ; nor did I eyet 
design tbey should drown bim. 

We were now nnder fäftil again ; but I was the most discon- 
8olate creature aUve for want of myrnao Friday, and would bave 
been very g^lad to bave gone back to tbe Island to bave taken 
one af tbe rest from tbence for my occasion ; but it couM not 
be ; so we went on. We had one pnsoner, as I bave said, and 
it was a long time before we could make him undürstand anj 
tMngj but, in time, our men taugbt Mm some Englisti, and be 
began to be a little tractable. Afterwarda, we inquired what 
conntry be came from, but could make uotbing of wbat be said ; 
for bis speecb was so odd, all ^nttural», and be spoke in tbe 
tbroat in sucb a bollow, odd manner^ tliat we coiild never form 
a Word after bim ; and we were all of opinion that tbey niigbt 
spcak tbat langnage as well if tbey were gaggcd aa otberwise ; 
nor could wc perceive tbat tbey liad any occasion eitber tbr 
teeth, tongue, lipa, or palate, but formed their words just as a 
hunting hörn forms a tune, witb an open tbroat. He told us, 
höwever, some time after, wben we hau taugbt bim to apeak a 
littie Englist, tbat tbey were going witli tbeir kings to figbt a 
great baitle, Whea be said kings, we asked bim how many 
kings ? He said they were five nation (we could not make bira 
understand tbe plural «), and tbat tbey all joined to go against 
two nation. We asked liim what made them come up to us? Ue 
said« *• To makee te great wonder look/' Here it is to be observed, 
that all tbose natives, as also tbose of Atrica, wben they learn 
English, always add two e's at tbe end of the words where we use 
one ; and they place the accent upon tbem, as makee, t&kee, and 
the like ; and we could not break them of it ; nav, I could hardly 
make Friday leave it oJT, though at last be did. 

And now 1 name the poor fcllow once more, I must takc mv 

1 last leave of him : Poor honest Friday ! We buried bim witb all 

the decency xmd solemnity posaible, by putting him into a coflin, 

and thromng him into the sea; and I caused them to fire 

eleven guns for bim : and so ended the lifc of the raost grüteful, 

faithful, honest, and raost aftectionate servant, that cver man had, 

We went now away witb a fair wind for Brazil; and in 

i about twelvo days' time we made land, in tbe latitude of five 

Idegrees south of the line» being the north-eastermost land oi 

^^■11 that part of America. We kept on S. by E. in &igbt of the 

HBbor« four days, wben we made Cape St* Augustine, and iti 

^^threc day« came to an anchor off the bay of Ali Saints, the old 



354 ADVENTURES OF 

place of my deliverance, from whence came boih xny good and 
eyil fate. 

Never ship came to this port that had less bosiness tlian I 
had, and vet it was with great difficulty that we were admitted . 
to hold uie least correspondence on shore; not my partner 
himself, who was alive, and made a great figure among them, 
not my two merchant trustees, not tiie fame of my wonderful 
preservation in the Island, could obtain me that fetvour ; bat my 
partner remembering that I had given five hundred moidores 
to the priory of the monastery of the Angustines, and two hundred 
and seventy-two to the poor, went to the monasteiy, and obliged 
the prior that then was, to go to the govemor, and get leave for 
me personally, with the captain and one more, besides eight 
eeamen, to come on shore, and no more ; and this upon condition 
absolutely capitulated for, that we should not oflfer to land any 
goods out of the ship, or to carry any person away without licence. 
They were so strict with us as to landing any goods, that it was 
with extreme difficulty that I got on shore three bales of Englisb 
goods, such as fine broad-cloths, stuffs, and some linen, whicb I 
had brought for a present to my partner. 

He was a very generous, open-hearted man; though, like me, 
he came from little at first ; and though he knew not that I had 
the least design of giving him any thing, he sent me on board a 
present of fresh provision, wine, and sweetmeats, worth above 
thirty moidores, including some tobacco, and three or four fine 
medals of gold : but I was even with him in my present, which, 
as I have said, consisted of fine broad-cloth, Engfish stuffis, lace, 
and fine hollands : also I delivered him about the value of one 
hundred pounds Sterling, in the same goods, for other uses ; and 
I obliged him to set up the sloop, which I had brought with me 
from England, as I have said, for the use of my colony, in order 
to send the refreshments I intended to my plantation. 

Accordmgly, he got hands, and finished the sloop in a very few 
days, for she was already framed ; and I gave the master of her 
such Instructions as that he could not miss the place ; nor did he 
miss them, as I had an account from my partner afterwards. 
I got him soon loaded with the small cargo I sent them ; and 
one of our seamen, that had been on shore with me there, offered 
to go with the sloop and settle there, upon my letter to the 
govemor Spaniard to allot him a sufficient quantity of land for 
a plantation, and giving him some clothes and tools for bis 
plantiug work, which he said he understood, having been an old 
planter at Maryland, and a buccaneer into the bargain. I en- 
couraged the fellow, by granting all he desired; and, as an 
addition, I gave him the savage whom we had taken prisoner 
of war to be bis slave, and ordered the govemor Spaniard to give 
him bis share of every thing he wanted with the rest. 

When we came to fit this man out, my old partner told me 



therc was a certain very honest fellow^ s. Brazil planter of his 
acqimiotance, wlio liad fallen into the displeasure of tlie cliurch. 
I know not what thc matter is with hirnj gays he, but on my 
conacience I think he ia a beretic in liia heart^ and he has heen 
obliged to conceal bimself for fear of the Inquisition" that he 
wouM be very glad of such an opportunity to make his eacape, 
with hiB wifej and two daugbters; and if I woiild let them go to 
my island, and allot thera a plantation, he would give thera a 
small stock t(j begin with ; for the oülccrs of the Inquisition had 
seized all bis effects and estate, and be bad nothing left but a 
little household atnff, and two ülaves : and, adda he^ though I 
hate his principlesj yet I woidd not bave bim fall into tbeir 
bandSj for he will be assuredly bnraed alive if he does. 

I granted this presentlv, and joined my Englisbman with 
them; and we concealed tbe man, and bis wife and daugbters, 
on board our sbip^ tili tbe sloop put out to go to Hea j and tben, 
haviiig put all their goods on board some time before, we put 
them on board tbe sloop afler she was got out of the bay, 

Our ae^sjnan was mightily pleaaed with thia new partner; and 
their Stocks, indeed, were rauch alike rieh in tools, in prepara- 
tiona, and a farm ; but iiothing to begin with, except aa above ; 
howeverj tbey carried over with them, which was worth all tbe 
resti some materials for planting sugarcanes, with sonae plants of 
ciines, whicb be, I mean the Portugal mim^ understood very well, 

Ämong the rest of the supplies sent to my tenants in the 
island, I sent them by the sloop three milch cows and five calves, 
ftbout twenty-two hogs among thera, three sows big with pig, 
two mares, and a stonehorse, For my Spaniards, according to 
my promise, I engaged three Portugal women to go, and recom- 
roended it to them to marry them, and use them kindly, I could 
have procured more women, but I remembered that tbe poor 
prosecuted man bad two daugbters, and that there were but five 
of the Spaniards tbat wanted ; the rest Ihad wives of their own, 
thougb in anotbcr country. 

AU this cargo arrived safe» and, as you may easily suppose, 
was very welcome to my old inhabitants, who were now, with 
this addition, between sixty and seventy people, besides little 
chdldrcn^ of wbicb there were a great many* l found letters at 
London from them all, bv way of Liäbon, wben 1 c^me back to 
England, of which I sball also takc some notice immediately» 

I have now done with the island, and all manner of discourse 
about it; and whoever reads the rest of my raemorandums 
wotdd do well to turn his thougb ts entirely from it, and ex pect 
to read of the folUes of an old man, not warued by his own 
barmSi much less by those of other men, to beware of the Ukej 
not coolcd bv almost forty years* miseries and disappoiutments ; 
not satisfieJ with prospcrity beyond e\pcctation, nor made 
caudous by afilictions and distress beyond Imitation. 



356 ADVENTÜRES OF 

I had no more bnsiuess to go to the East Indies than a man at 
fall liberty has to go to the turnkey at Newgate, and desire bim 
to lock bim up among the prisoners tbere, and starve him. Had 
I taken a small vessel irom England, and gone directly to the 
Island ; bad I loaded her, as I did tbe otber vessel, witb all the 
necessaries for tbe plantation, and for my people; taken a patent 
from tbe government bere to bave secured my property, in snb- 
jection omy to tbat of England ; bad I carried over cannon and 
ammunition, servants, and people to plant, and taken possession 
of tbe place, fortified and strengtbened it in tbe name of England, 
and increased it witb people, as I migbt easily bave done ; bad I 
tben settled myself tbere, and sent tbe sbip back laden witli good 
rice, as I migbt also bave done in six montbs* time, and ordered 
my friends to bave fitted ber out again for our supply ; bad I 
done tbis, and stayed tbere myself, I bad at least acted like a man 
of common sense ; but I was possessed witb a wandering spiiit, 
and scomed all advantages : I pleased myself witb being the 
patron of tbe people I placed tbere, and doing for them in a kind 
of baugbty, majestic way, like an old patriarcbal monarcb, pro- 
viding for tbem as if I bad been fatber of tbe whole famüy, as 
well as of tbe plantation : but I never so mucb as pretended to 
plant in tbe name of any government or nation, or to acknowledge 
any prince, or to call my people subjects to any one nation more 
tban anotber : nay, I never so mucb as gave tbe place a nam^ 
but leftit, as I foimd it, belonging to nobody, and tbe people under 
no discipline or government but my own ; wbo, Öiough I bad 
influence over them as a father and benefactor, had no autbority 
or power to act or command one way or otber, fartber tban volun- 
tary consent moved them to comply : yet even tbis, had I stayed 
tbere, would bave done well enough ; but as I rambled from them, 
and came tbere no more, the last letters I had from any of tbem 
were by my partner's means, who afterwards sent anotber sloop 
to the place, and who sent me word, though I had not tbe letter 
tili I got to London, several years after it was written, tbat they 
went on but poorly, were malcontent witb their long stay tbere; 
tbat Will Atkins was dead ; tbat five of the Spaniards were come 
away; and though they had not been mucb molested by the 
savages, yet they had had some skirmishes witb tbem ; and tbat 
they begged of him to write to me to think of the promise I had 
made to fetch them away, tbat they migbt see their country 
again before they died. 

But I was gone a wildgoose chase, indeed! .and they tbat 
will bave any more of me must'be content to follow me into a 
new variety of foDies, hardships, and wild adventures, wherein 
the justice of Providence may be duly observed ; and we may 
see how easily Heaven can gorge us witb our own desires, 
make the strongest of our wishes be our affliction, and punish 
US most severely witb those very things whicb we tbink it 



HOBINSON CRUSOE* JUtö 

would he our utalost liappinesa to be allowed in. Whcther I 
had business or no busmess, away I wenti it iä no time now 
to enlargö npon tlie reason or abstirdity ot' ray own conduct, bat 
to come to tte Listory ; I was emburked ihr the voyage, and tke 
voynge I went. 

i shall only add a word or two concerning my honest popish 
clergryman ; for let their opmion of us, and all otber heretics in 
geueral, as ihcy call us, be as unckaritablc as it may, l vcrily 
believe this man was yery siucere, and wished the good of all 
men : yet I belieTe lie was upon tbe resterve in many of liis 
expressiüiia to prevent giving nie ofTence; ihr I scarce Iieard 
bim once call on tbe blessed Virgin, or mentlon St. Jago or bis 
guardiau angel, thougb so common with tbe rest of them : how- 
evcr, I say, 1 bad not tlie least donbt of Ins smcerity tmd pious 
intentiona on bis own part; and I am firmly of opiniun, if tlie 
rest of the popish missionaries were iike liimi tbey woidd strive 
to vinit even the poor Tartars, and Lapl anders, wliere tbey bad 
nothing to give them, as weÜ as covet to flock to India, Persia, 
Chinai &c. the most wealtby of tbe beathen comitrica; for if 
tbey expected to bring no gains to their chnrch by it, it may weil 
be admired how tbey came tt> admit the Chinese Confucius into 
the calendar of the Christian sainl^. Bufc tbia by tbe by, 

A sbip being ready to sail for Lisbon, my pions priest asked 
me leave to go thither ; beiug still, as be observed, boiiod never 
to fiiiisb any voyage be began, ]Iow happy bad it beeu for mo 
if I bad gone with Min ! But it was too late now : all tbings 
Heaven appoints for tbe best : had E gone with Mm, I had never 
had 30 many tbings to bc thankful for, aud the reader had never 
heard of tbe second part of tlic travels and adventures of Robln- 
i»on Crusoe : so 1 muät here leave exclaiming at myself» and go 
on wiih my voyage. From tbe Brazils we made directly over 
the Atlantic Sea to tbe Cape of Good ilope, and had a tolerable 
good voyage, our course geuerally aouth-eaijt, now and tbeu a 
storm, and some contrary winds, but my disastcrs at sea were 
at an end; my future rubs and cross events were to belal me 
on ahore, that it might appear ihe land was aa well pvepared to 
be our sconrge aa tbe sea. 

Our ship was on a tradlng voyage, and had a supercargo on 
boardf wbo was to direct all her motions after she urrived at the 
Cape^ only being limited to a certain niimber of days for st^y, 
by charter-party, at tbe severai ports she was to go to. TMs 
waa none of my buaincss, neitber did 1 mcddle with it ; my 
nephew» tbe captain, and the supercargo, adyusting all thosa 
thmgs between them as tbey thougbt üu 



(g> 



358 



ADVENTÜEES OP 



SECTION XLL 

TnE VESSEL TOUCHES AT MADAGASCAR. — AFFRAY WtTH THE NA-| 
nVES» — ^WHO ARE MASSACRED BY THE CREW. — THE SAILOBÄ 
AFTERWARDS REFtTgE TO SAIL WITH ROBINSONj WHO IS LETT 
BY EIS NEPHEW, THE CAPTAIN, IN BENGAL, 

We stayed at tbe Cape no longer tlian was needfUl to take iiiJ 
fresh TTftter, but made the best of oiir way for the coast ol" Coro-l 
mandel, We were mdeed intbrmed that a Frertcb mau-of-warof I 
fiftvguns, and t wo larj2;e merchant sbipg, were gone for the Indien; t 
and aa I knew we were at war with PVance, I had some appre*] 
hensioDs of them; but they weat tlieir own way, and we hearl] 
no more of thcra. 

I sball not pester tbe reader ivitli a tedious description of^ 
places, Journals of our voyages, Tariatinns of tbe compuss, lati- 
tudes, trade- winds, &c. ; it is cnougb to name the ports and , 
places wliicli we touclied at, aod wliat occurred to ns upon oufl 
paasmg from one to anotlier. We tonchcd first at the ütland or 
Madagascar, where^ tbougb the peoplc arc fierce and treacherous, 
and very well anned witb lances and bows, wbich they use with 
inconceivable dcxterity, yet we fared very well with thera a whilc; 
they treated iis very civilly ; and, for some trifles which we gaye 
them, such aa knives, scissora, &c, they broun^ht us eleven good 
fat buUocks of a roiddliDg aize, which we took in, partly for fresb 
provisions for our preaent spentling, and the rest to siklt for the 
ship'a use. 

We were obliged to stay bere some time after we had ftir- 
nisbed ourselves with proräitms; and I, wlio was alwaya too 
cnrioua to look into every nook of the world wherever I came, 



ROBINSON CRÜBOE. 



359 



was for g^oing: on shore as often as I could. It waa on the eaat 
side of the Island tliat we went od shore one eveaiug ; and the 
people, who, by tlie way, are very numeroua, came throDgin^ 
about US, and stood gRzinif at us at a distance ; but as we had 
traded freely witb them» and had bcen kindly used, we thougbt 
ourselves in no dan^^er ; but wliea we saw tbe pcople, we cut 
tbree bouglis out of a tree^ and stück tbein up at a distance 
frora US; whicb, it secms, h a mafk in that country» not only of 
ä truce and friendsbip, but wben it is accepted, tbe otlier aide 
Sets up three poles or bougbsi wbich is a si^a! that tbcy accept 
the truce too ; but tbeu thia ia a kuown condition of tlie truce, 
that you are not to pasa beyond their three poles, towards them, 
Bor they to come past your three poles, or boughs, towards 
you ; 80 that you are perfectly secure within the tbree poles, 
and all the apace betvveeu your poles and theirs is allowed iike 
Ä market for free converse, traffic, and commerce. When you 
go there, you muist not carry your weapons uith you; and if 
Siey corae into that Space, they stick up their javehns aud lances 
all at the first poles, and come ou uimrmed ; but if any violence 
is oÖ'ered them, and the truce thereby broken, away they 
run to tbe poles, aud iay hold of their weapons, and the truce 
ifi at an ena. 

It bappened one evening when we went on shore» that a greater 
Dumberof their people came down than usual, but all very friendly 
and civil ; and tliey broug^ht several kinds of provmions, for which 
we satisfied them with such toys as we had ; their wonien» also, 
brought ua milk aud roots, aud several thinga very acceptable 
to US, and aU was quiet ; and we niade us a little tent or hut of 
some boucrbs of trees, aud Iay on shore all night, 

I know not what was the occaalon, but I wa* not so well aatis^ 
fied to lie ou shore as the rest ; and the boat riding at an anchor 
about a s tone 's caat from the land, witb two men in her to take 
care of her, I made one of them come ou shore ; aud getting 
some büughs of trees to cover us also in the boat, 1 sprcad the 
sali on the bottom of tbe boat, and biy uuder the cover of the 
hranches of the trees all night in the boat. 

About two o'clock in tbe morniug we heard one of our men 
make a terrible noise on the shore, calling out, for God's sake, 
to bring the boat in, aud come and help them, for they were all 
Iike to be murdered; at the same Urne I heard tbe fire of five 
musketSj which was the number of tbe ^uns they had, and that 
three timea over; for, it seems^ the natives here were not so 
easih" frighteued with guns as the savages were in America, 
"wbere I had to do with them. All this white I knew not what 
was the matter, but rouaing immediately from sleep with the 
noine» I caused the boat to be tbnist in, aud resolvedi wilh three 
liisees we had on board, to land and assist our men. 

We got the boat eoou to the shore, but cur men were m too 



860 ADVENTÜRSS OF 

mach haste ; for being come to the shore, they plunged into Ühe 
water, to get to the boat with all the expedition tney coold, being 
pursued by between three and four hundred men. Our men 
were biit nine in all, and only five of them had ftisees with them; 
the rest had pistols and swords, indeed, bat they were of small 
use to them. 

We took up seven of our men, and with difficolty enoagh too, 
three of them being very ill wounded ; and that which was still 
worse was, that while we stood in the boat to take our men in, 
we were in as much danger as they were in on shore ; fbr they 
poared their arrows in upon us so thick, that we were glad to 
barricade the side of the boat up with the benches, and two or 
three loose boards, which, to our great satisfaction, we had by 
mere accident in the boat. And yet, had it been daylight, they 
are, it seems, such exact marksmen, that if they coald have secn 
bat the least part of any of us, they would have been sure of us. 
We had, by the light of the moon, a litüe sight of them, as they 
stood pelting us from the shore with darts and arrows; and 
having got readv our fire-arms, we gave them a volley, that we 
could hear, by the cries of some of them, had wounded several; 
however, they stood thus in battle array on the shore tili break 
of day, which we suppose was that they might see the better to 
take their aim at us. 

In this condition we lay, and could not teil how to weigh onr 
anchor or set up our sail, because we must needs stand up in the 
boat, and they were sure to hit us as we were to hit a bird in a 
tree with small shot. We made signals of distress to the ship, 
which, though she rode a league oflF, yet my nephew the captain, 
hearing cur firing, and by glasses perceiving the posture we lay 
in, and that we fired towards the shore, pretty well understood 
US ; and weighing anchor with all speed, he stood as near the 
shore as he durst with the ship, and then sent another boat, with 
ten hauds in her, to assist us : but we called to them not to 
come too near, telling them what condition we were in ; how- 
ever they stood in near to us, and one of the men taking the end 
of a tow-line in bis band, and keeping one boat between him 
and the enemy, so that they could not perfectly see him, swam 
on board us, and made fast the line to the boat ; upon which we 
slipped out a little cable, and leaving our anchor behind, they 
towed US out of the reach of the arrows ; we all the while lying 
close behind the barricado we had made. 

As soon as we were got from between the ship and the shore, 
that we could lay her side to the shore, she run along just by 
them, and poured in a broadside amongthem loaded with pieceis 
of iron and lead, small bullets, and such stuff, besides the great 
shot, which made a terrible havoc among them. 

When we were got on board and out of danger, we had time 
to examine into the occasion of this fray ; and, indeed, our 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 



361 



supercat^Oj who hhä been often in those partg, put me upon it ; 
for he Said he was aure the inhabitants would not have toucbed 
Uä after we had made a truce, if we had not done somethiDg^ to 
provoke tliem to it* At length it came out thftt au old woman 
wJio liad coiuö to seil ua sonie milk, Iiad brouglit it witbin our 
poles, and a young woraau with ber, wbo also brougbt some 
roots or herbs ; and wbile the old woman (ivhetber she was 
mother to the young wo mau or no tbey coiild not teil) was aell- 
ing US (be milk, one of our inen ollcred aorae rudeness to the 
weneh tbat was with her, at which tbe old woman made a great 
noise ; bowever» tbe Seaman wouJd not quit hh prize, but carried 
her out of the old woman 's sight amou^ the treefcfj it behig alraost 
dark : tbe old woman went away without her, and, as we may 
suppose» made an outery among the people sbe came from, wbo, 
upon notice, raised this g^rcat annj lipon us in tbree or four 
hours ; and it was great oddä but we bad all been destroyed, 

One of our men was killed witb a lanee thrown at bim just 
At the beginning of the att^rk^ ag he sallied out of the tent tbey 
had made : the rest came i)ir free, all but the fellow wbo was 
the occasion of all the miscbief, wbo paid dear etiougb for his 
black mistress, for we could not hcar what became of him a 
great whüe. We luy upon tbe shore twcj day« after» thougb tbe 
wind prescnted, and made sig:nals for bim, and made oiir boat 
sail up sbore and down shore several leagues, but in vain, so we 
were obli^ed to give him over ; and if he alone had suffered for 
it, tbe losa bad been less. 

I could not satisfy myself, however, witbout venturing on 
shore once more» to try if I could learn any tbiug of him or 
tbem : it was tbe tbird night after tbe action that Ihad a great 
mind to kam, if I could by any means, what mischief we had 
done, aud bow tbe game stood on tbe ludians' aide. 1 was 
careful to do it in the dark, lest we should be attacked again ; 
but I ought, indced, to have been sure that the meu I weut with 
bad been vmder my command, before I enga^ed in a tblng so 
hiusardoua and misclüevous, as 1 was brought iuto by it witb- 
out deaign. 

We took twenty aa stout fellows with ug aa any in the ship, 
besides the supercargo and myselfi and we landed two hours 
before midnigbt, at the same place where tbe Indiana stood 
drawn up in the cvening before; 1 landed here, because my 
design, as 1 have said, was ehicily to see if they bad quitted the 
field, and if they bad left any marks behind them of the mischief 
we had done ihem ; aüd 1 tbought if we could surprise one or 
two of them, pecbaps we migbt get our mau again, by way of 
exchange. 

Wc landed without any noise» and di^ided our men into two 
bodicH, wbercof the boatswain eommanded one, and 1 the otber. 
We neither saw nor heatd any body stir when we landed ; and 



862 ADVENTURES OF 

we mardied up, one body at a distance from the other, to the 
place ; but at nrst could see nothing, it being very dark ; tili bv 
and hy our boatswain, wbo led the &rst party, stombled and feil 
over a dead body. ' This made them halt awhile ; for knowmg 
by the circumstances that they were at the place wLere the 
Indians had stood, they waited for my Coming up there. We con- 
duded to halt tili the moon began to rise, which we knew woold 
be in less than an honr, when we could easüy discem the havoc 
we had made among them. We told thirty-two bodies upon the 
groimd, whereof two were not quite dead; some had an arm, and 
8ome a leg shot off, and one his head; those that were wounded, 
we suppose, they had carried away. 

When we had made, as I thought, a füll discovery of all we 
coTild come to the knowledge of, I was resolved for going on 
board; but the boatswain and his party sent me word that they 
were resolved to make a visit to the Indian town, where these 
dogs, as they called them, dwelt, and asked me to go along with 
them ; and if they could find them, as they still fanded they 
should, they did not doubt of getting a good booty ; and it might 
be they might find Tom Jeffiy there : that was me man's name 
we had lost. 

Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well enough 
what answer to have given them ; for I should have commanded 
them instantly ou board, knowing it was not a hazard fit for us 
to run, who had a ship, and ship-loading in our Charge, and a 
voyage to make which depended very much upon the lives of 
the men ; but as they sent me word they were resolved to go, 
and only asked me and my Company to go along with them, I 
positively refused it, and rose up, for I was sitting on the ground, 
in Order to go to the boat. One or two of the men began to 
importune me to go ; and when I refused, began to grumble, 
and say that they were not under my command, and they would 
go. Come, Jack, says one of the men, will you go with me? 
ril go for one. Jack said he would, — and then another, — and, 
in a word they all left me but one, whom I persuaded to stay, 
and a boy left in the boat. So the supercargo and I, with the 
third man, went back to the boat, where we told them we would 
stay for them, and take care to take in as many of them as 
should be left; for I told them it was a mad thmg they were 
going about, and supposed most of them would run the fate of 
Tom Jeffry. 

They told me, like seamen, they would Warrant it they would 
come off again, and they would take care, &c. ; so away they 
went. I entreated them to consider the ship and the voyage, 
that their lives were not their own, and that they were entrusted 
with the voyage, in some measure ; that if they miscarried, the 
ship might be lost for want of their help, and that they could 
not answer for it to God or man. But I might as well have 



ROBINSON CRD80E. 



363 



tallced to tlie mamraast of tlie ship ; tliey were mad upon their 
joiumey, only tbey gave me good vvords, and begged I wutüd 
not be an^y ; tbat tbey did nut dotibt but tbey wtjuld bc back 
agriiu in about an bour at fkrtbest ; ihr the hidiaii town, tbey 
Said, was not above bal/ a milc off, thougb they found it above 
two milea before they got to it» 

Well, they all went away ; and thoug^b the attempt waa des- 
perate, and siicb as none but madmen would have gone abouti 
vet» to give tbein tbeir due^ tbey went about it as warily an 
Doldly : they were gallanüy armed, for they bad every man a 
fusee or rausket, a bnjonet, and a piatol ; some of tbcm liad 
broad cutlasscs, some uf theni bad liantrers, and tbc boatswain 
and two more had poleaxeü ; besidt»^ all \i hieb they !iad among 
tbeni thirteen band-gn^'enftdoes : holder fellows, and better pro - 
vided, never went about any wicked work in the world. 

Wheu tbey went out, tbeir cliief desij^u w^as plunder, and tbey 
were in miglity hopes of finding gold there ; but a ciiTunistance, 
vliicb noae of theai were aware of, set them on fire iivith revenge, 
and made devils of them alL When tbey came to the few Indian 
houseä which they thought had been the town, wliich was not 
above half a niile off, they were iinder a great disappointment, 
for thcrc were not above twelve or thirteen houses ; and wbere 
tbe town was, or how big, they knew not. Tbey eonsultedi 
thereforct whnt to do, and were some time before they could 
resolve ; for if they feil npon IhesCt they must cut all tbeir 
throats, and it was ten to one hut some of them might escape, 
it being in the night, though the moou was up ; and ii' one 
escaped, he would run aad raise all tbe town, so they should 
have a whole army npon tliem : again, on the other band, if 
they w ent away and Icft those untouched, for the pcople were 
all aaleep, they could not teil which way to look for tbe town • 
Bowever, the last was the best advicc ; so they resolved to leave 
them, and look for the town aa well as they could. They went 
on a little wav, and found a cow tied to a tree ; Ihis, they pr©- 
sently concluJed, would be a good gitide to tliem ; for, tbey said, 
the cow certttinly bek>nged to the town before them, or to the 
to\m bobind them ; and if tbey untied her, they should see which 
way she went : if ahe went back, they had nothing to say to her; 
but, if she went forward, they would foUow her : so tbey cut the 
cord, which waa made of twisted flags, and the cow went on 
before them, directly to the town; which, as they reported, eon- 
sisied of above two nundred housea or bnts, and in some of these 
they found aeveral familic« living together. 

Here they found ail in silcnce, as profoundly secure as sleep 
could mnke thena ; and, tir8t^ tbey called another Council, to coö- 
sider what tbey had to do ; and, in a word, tbey resolved to 
divide tbemaelves into three hodiea, and so set three bouses on 
fire in three purts of the town ; and ab the meu came out, to 

B II 



3S4 • ADVENTURES OF 

seize them and bind them (if any resisted, they ueed not be asked 
what to do then), and so to search tbe rest of the houses for 
plunder : but tbey resolved to march silently first tbrough the 
town, and see what dimensions it was of, and if tbey might 
venture upon it or no. 

They did so, and desperately resolved that tbey would venture 
upon äiem : but while they were animating one anotber to the 
work, three of them, who were a little before tbe rest, called out 
aloud to them, and told them that they bad found Tom Jeffiry : 
tbey all ran up to the place, where tbey found tbe poor fellow 
bangin^ up naked by one arm, and bis tbroat cut. Tbere was 
an Indian bouse just by tbe tree, where tbey found sixteen or 
seventeen of tbe principal Indians, who bad been concemed in 
tbe fray with us before, and two or three of them wounded with 
our shot ; and our men found tbey were awake, aüd talking one 
to anotber in that bouse, but knew not their number. 

Tbe sigbt of their poor mangled comrade so enraged tbem, as 
before, that they swore to one anotber tbey would be revenged, 
and that not an Indian that came into their hands should have 
any quarter ; and to work tbey went immediately, and yet not 
so madly as might be expected from tbe rage and fiiry tbey were 
in. Their first care was to get sometbin^ that would soon take 
fire, but, after a little search, they found that would be to no 
purpose ; for most of tbe houses were low, and tbatcbed with 
flags and rushes, of which the country is füll : so tbey presently 
made some wildfire, as we call it, by wetting a little powder in 
the palm of their hands ; and in a quarter of an hour tbey set 
the town on fire in four or ü\e places, and particularly tbat house 
where the Indians were not gone to bed. 

As soon as tbe fire began to blaze, the poor frightened creatures 
began to rush out to save their lives, but met \^itb their fate in 
the attempt ; and especially at the door, where they drove them 
back, the boatswain himself killing one or two with bis poleaxe; 
the house being large, and many in it, he did not care to go in, 
but called for a band-grenado, and threw it among tbem, which 
at first frightened them, but, wben it burst, made sucb havoc 
among them, tbat they cried out in a bideous manner. In short, 
most of tbe Indians who were in the open part of the bouse were 
killed or hurt with the grenado, except two or three who pressed 
to the door, which the boatswain and two more kept, with their 
bayonets on the muzzles of their pieces, and dispatcbed all that 
came in their way : but tbere was anotber apartment in the 
house, where tbe prince or king, or whatever be was, and several 
others were ; and these were kept in tili the house, whieb was 
by this time all in a light flame, feil in upon tbem, and they were 
smothered togetber. 

All this while they fired not a gun, because.tbey would not 
waken tbe people faster than they could master them ; but tbe 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 365 

(Ire began to waken them fast enougb, and our fellows were glad 
to keep a little together in bodies ; for the fire grew so raging, 
all the bouses being made of ligbt combustible stuff, tbat they 
could bardly bear the street between them ; and their business 
was to foUow tbe fire, for the surer execution ; as fast as the 
fire either forced the people out of those bouses which were 
biuming, or frightened them out of others, our people were ready 
at their doors to knock them on the head, still calling and hal- 
looing one to another to remember Tom Jefifry. 

While this was doing, I must confess I was very uneasy, and 
especially when I saw the flames of the town, which, it being 
night, seemed to be just by me. My nephew, the captain, who 
was roused by bis men, seeing such a fire was very uneasy, not 
knowing what the matter was, or what danger I was in, especially 
hearing the guns too, for by this time they began to use their 
fire-arms ; a thousand thoughts oppressed bis mind concerning 
me and the supercargo, what would become of us ; and, at last, 
though he could ill spare any more men, yet not knowing what 
exigence we might be in, he takes another boat, and with thir- 
teen men and himself comes on shore to me. 

He was surprised to see me and the supercargo in the boat, 
with no more than two men ; and though he was glad that we 
were well, yet he was in the same impatience with us to know 
what was doing; for the noise continued, and the flame increased; 
in Short, it was next to an impossibility for any man in the 
World to restrain their curiosity to know what had happened, 
or their concem for the safety of the men : in a word, the cap- 
tain told me he would go and help bis men, let what would 
come. I argued with him, as I did before with the men, the 
safety of the ship, the danger of the voyage, the interest of the 
owners and merchants, &Q.f and told nim J and th^ two men 
would go, and only see if we could at a distance learn what was 
like to be the event, and come back and teil him. It was all 
one to talk to my nephew, as it was to talk to the rest before ; 
he would go, he said ; and he only wished he had left but ten 
men in the ship ; for he could not think of having bis men lost 
for want of help ; he had rather lose the ship, the voyage, and 
his life acd all ; and away be went. 

I was no more able to stay behind now than I was to persuade 
them not to go : so, in short, the captain ordered two men to 
row back the pinnace,'and fetch twelve men more, leaving the 
long-boat at an anchor ; and that when they came back, six men 
should keep the two boats, and six more come after us : so that 
he left only sixteen men in the ship ; for the whole ship*s Com- 
pany cons^sted of sixty-five men, whereof two were lost in the 
täte (juarrel which brought this mischief on. 

Bemg now on tbe maroh, you may be sure we feit little of the 
ground we tr6d on ; and being guided by the fire, we kept no 
B B2 



a56 ADVENTURES OF 

I had no more bnsiness to go to the East Indies than a man at 
fall liberty has to go to tbe turnkey at Newgate, and desire him 
to lock hun up among the prisoners there, and starre bim. Had 
I taken a small vessel from England, and gone directly to the 
island ; had I loaded her, as I did the other vessel, witb all the 
necessaries for the plantation, and for my people; taken a patent 
from the government here to have secured my property, in stib- 
jection oiüy to that of England ; had I carried over cannon and 
ammunition, servants, and people to plant, and taken possession 
of the place, fortified and strengthened it in the name of England, 
and increased it with people, as I might easily have done ; had I 
then setüed myself there, and sent the ship back laden wiüi good 
rice, as I might also have done in six months' time, and or&red 
my friends to have fitted her out again for our supply ; had I 
done this, and stayed there myself, I had at least acted like a man 
of common sense ; but I was possessed with a wandering spirit, 
and scomed all advantages : I pleased myself with being the 
patron of the people I placed there, and doing for them in a kind 
of haughty, majestic way, like an old patriarchal monarch, pro- 
viding for them as if I had been father of the whole famUy, as 
well as of the plantation : but I never so much as pretended to 
plant in the name of any government or nation, or to acknowledge 
any prince, or to call my people subjects to any one nation more 
than another : nay, I never so much as gave the place a name, 
but leftit, as I found it, belonging to nobody, and the people under 
110 discipline or government but my own ; who, tnough I had 
influence over them as a father and benefactor, had no authority 
or power to act or command one way or other, farther than volun- 
tary consent moved them to comply : yet even this, had I stayed 
there, would have done well enough ; but as I rambled from them, 
and came there no more, the last letters I had from any of them 
were by my partner's means, who afterwards sent another sloop 
to the place, and who sent me word, though I had not the letter 
tili I got to London, several years after it was written, that they 
went on but poorly, were malcontent with their long stay there; 
that Will Atklns was dead ; that five of the Spaniards were come 
away ; and though they had not been much molested by the 
savages, yet they had had some skirmishes with them ; and that 
they begged of him to write to me to think of the promise I had 
made to fetch them away, that they might see their country 
again before they died. 

But I was gone a wildgoose chase, indeed! .and they that 
will have any more of me must'be content to follow me into a 
new variety of foDies, hardships, and wild adventures, wherein 
the justice of Providence may be duly observed ; and we may 
see how easily Heaven can gorge us with our own desires, 
raake the strongest of our wishes be our aflliction, and punish 
US most severely with those very things which we think it 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 357; 

would be cur utmost happiness to be allowed in. Whether I 
had business er no business, away I went : it is no time now 
to enlarge upon the reason or absurdity of my own conduct, but 
to come to the history ; I was embarked for the voyage, and the 
voyage I went. 

I shall only add a word or two concerning my honest popish 
clergyman ; for let their opiuion of us, and all other heretics in 
general, as they call us, be as uncharitable as it may, I verüy 
believe this man was very sincere, and wished the good of all 
men : yet I believe he was upon the reserve in many of his 
expressions to prevent giving me offence; for I scarce heard 
him once call on the blessed Virgin, or mention St. Jago or his 
guardian angel, though so common with the rest of them : how- 
ever, I say, I had ncS the least doubt of his sincerity and pious 
intentions on his own part ; and I am firmly of opinion, if the 
rest of the popish misnoBaries were like him, they would strive 
to Visit even the poor Tartars, and Laplanders, where they had 
nothing to give them, as wefi: a» eovet to flock to India, Persia, 
China, &c. the most wealthy of the heathen countries ; for if 
they expected to bring no gains to their church by it, it may well 
be admired how they came to admit the Chinese Confucius into 
the calendar of the Christian saints. But this by the by. 

A ship being ready to sail for Lisbon, my pious priest asked 
me leave to go thither ; being still, as he observed, bound never 
to finish any voyage he began. IIow happy had it been for me 
if I had gone wiüi him ! But it was too late now : all things 
Heaven appoints for the best : had I gone with him, I had never 
had so many things to be thankM for, and the reader had never ■ 
heard of the second part of the travels and adventures of Robin- 
son Crusoe : so I must here leave exclaiming at myself, and go 
on with my voyage. From the Brazils we made directly over 
the Atlantic Sea to the Cape of Good Hope, and had a tolerable 
good voyage, our course generally south-east, now and then a 
storm, and some contrary winds, but my disasters at sea were 
at an end ; my ftiture rubs and cross events were to befal me 
on shore, that it might appear the land was as well prepared to 
be our scourge as the sea. 

Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a supercargo on 
board, who was to direct all her motions after she arrived at the 
Cape, only being limited to a certain number of days for stay, 
by charter-party, a^ the several ports she was to go to. Tms 
was none of my business, neither did I meddle with it ; my 
n^hew, the captain, and the supercargo, a^justing all those 
thmgs between them as they thought fit 



358 



AB VENTÜR ES OF 



.i>^^^a- 



SECTION XLI. 

TUE VESSEL TOUCHES AT MADAGASCAR.— AFFRÄY WlTH THE WA- 

xrvEs, — wno ahe massaceed by the crew.^ — tue sailobs 

AFTERWARDS REFUSE TO SAIL WITH ROBINSON, WHO IS LEFT 
BY HIS NEPIlEWj TUE CAPTAIK, IN BENGAI. 

We stayed at the Cape no longer tlian was ne^dful to take in 
fresh water, but made the best of our way for the coast of Coro- 
matidel We werc indeed informed that a French majj-of-war of 
fiftyoriii^g^ andtwolarge merchant ships, were gone for the Indies; 
and as I knew we were at war with Fraoce, I had some appre* 
hensioiiB of them j but they went their owu way, and we heani 
no more of them. 

I shall not pester the reader with a tedioiis description of 
places, Journals of our voyagea, variations of the compass^ lati- 
tudea, trade-wimla, &c. ; it is enough to name the ports and 
places which we touched at, and what occurred to us upon ouf 
passing from one to another. We touched first at the Island of 
Madagaflcar» where, tbough the pcople are lierce and treacberous, 
and verjr well armed witti lanees and bows, which they use witli 
mconceivable dexterity^ yet wefared very well with them a while; 
they treated us "very civilly ; and, for some trilies which we gavc 
them» such as kuives, scissors« &c, they brought us eleven good 
fat bullocks of a middling sizc, which we took in, partly for fresh 
provisions for oiu* preaent spending, and the rest to salt for the 
sbip's use. 

We were obliged to stay here some time aftcr we had fbr- 
nished ourselves with provisions ; and I^ wbo was always too 
curious to look into every nook of the world wherever rcame, 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 359 

was for going on sbore as often as I could. It was ön the east 
side of the Island that we went on shore one evening ; and the 
people, whp, by the way, are very numerous, came thronging 
about US, and stood gazing at us at a distance ; but as we had 
traded freely with them, and had been kindly used, we thought 
ourselves in no danger ; but when we saw the people, we cut 
three boughs out of a tree, and stuck them up at a distance 
from US ; which, it seems, is a mark in that couutry, not only of 
a truce and friendship, but when it is accepted, the other side 
sets up three poles or boughs, which is a signal that they accept 
the truce too : but then this is a known condition of the truce, 
that you are not to pass beyond their three poles, towards them, 
nor they to come past your three poles, or boughs, towards 
you ; so that you are perfectly secure within the three poles, 
and all the space between your poles and theirs is allowed like 
a market for free converse, traffic, and commerce. When you 
go there, you must not carry your weapons with you; and if 
tiiey come>into that space, they stick up their javelins and lances 
all at the first poles, and come on unarmed ; bat if auy violence 
is ofiered them, and the truce thereby broken, away they 
run to the poles, and lay hold of their weapons, and the truce 
is at an end. 

It happened one evening when we went on shore, that a greater 
number of their people came do wn than usual, but all very friendly 
and civil; and they brought several kinds of provisions, for which 
we satisfied them with such toys as we had ; their women, also, 
brought US milk and roots, and several things very acceptable 
to US, and all was quiet ; and we made us a little tent or hut of 
some boughs of trees, and lay on shore all night. 

I know not what was the occasion, but I was» aot so well satis- 
fied to lie on shore as the rest ; and the boat ridins at an anchor 
about a stone's cast from the land, with two men m her to take 
care of her, I made one of them come on shore ; and getting 
some boughs of trees to cover us also in the boat, I spread the 
sail on the bottom of the boat, and lay under the cover of the 
branches of the trees all night in the boat. 

About two o'clock in the moming we heard one of our men 
make a terrible noise on the shore, calling out, for God's sake, 
to bring the boat in, and come and help them, for they were all 
like to be murdered ; at the same time I heard the fire of five 
muskets, which was the number of the guns they had, and that 
three times over; for, it seems, the natives here were not so 
easily frightened with guns as the savages were in America, 
where I had to do with them. All this while I knew not what 
was the matter, but rousing immediately from sleep with the 
noise, I caused the boat to be thrust in, and resolved, with three 
fiisees we had on board, to land and assist our men. 

We got the boat soon to the shore, but our men were in too 



860 ADVENTUKSS OF 

mucli haste ; for being come to the sliore, they plonged into the 
water, to get to the boat witb all the expedition tney could, behig 
pursued by between three and four hundred men. Our men 
were but nine in all, and only five of them had ftisees with them; 
the rest had pistols and swords, indeed, but they were of small 
use to them. 

We took up seven of our men, and with difficulty enongh too, 
three of them being very ill wounded ; and that wbich was still 
worse was, that while we stood in the boat to take our men in, 
we were in as much danger as they were in on shore ; for they 
poured their arrows in upon us so thick, that we were glad to 
barricade the side of the boat up with Üie benches, and two or 
three loose boards, which, to our great satisfaction, we had by 
mere accident in the boat. And yet, had it been daylight, the7 
are, it seems, such exact marksmen, that if they could have seen 
but the least part of any of us, they would have been sure of us. 
We had, by the light of the moon, a little sight of them, as they 
stood pelting us from the shore with darts and arrows; and 
having got ready our fire-arms, we gave them a volley, that we 
could hear, by the cries of some of them, had wounded several; 
however, they stood thus in battle array on the shore tili break 
of day, which we suppose was that they might see the better to 
take their aim at us. 

In this condition we lay, and could not teil how to weigh our 
anchor or set up our sail, because we must needs stand up in the 
boat, and they were sure to hit us as we were to hit a bird in a 
tree with small shot. We made signals of distress to the ship, 
which, though she rode a league off, yet my nephew the captain, 
hearing cur firing, and by glasses perceiving the posture we lay 
in, and that we fired towards the shore, pretty well understood 
US ; and weighing anchor with all speed, he stood as near the 
shore as he durst with the ship, and then sent anotherboat, with 
ten hauds in her, to assist us : but we called to them not to 
come too near, telling them what condition we were in ; how- 
ever they stood in near to us, and one of the men taking the end 
of a tow-line in bis hand, and keeping one boat between him 
and the enemy, so that they could not perfectly see him, swam 
on board us, and made fast the line to the boat ; upon which we 
slipped out a little cable, and leaving our anchor behind, they 
towed US out of the reach of the arrows ; we all the while lying 
dose behind the barricado we had made. 

As soon as we were got from between the ship and the shore, 
that we could lay her side to the shore, she run along just by 
them, and poured in a broadside amongthem loaded with pieces 
of iron and lead, small bullets, and such stuff, besides the great 
shot, which made a terrible havoc among them. 

When we were got on board and out of danger, we had time 
to examine into the occasion of this fray ; and, indeed, our 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 861 

Bupercai^o, who liad been often in those parts, put me upon it ; 
for he Said he was sure the inhabitants would not have touched 
US after we had made a truce, if we had not done something to 
provoke them to it. At length it came out that an old woman 
who had come to seil us some milk, had brought it within our 
poles, and a young woman with her, who also brought some 
roots or herbs; and while the old woman (whether she was 
mother to the young woman or no they could not teil) was sell- 
ing US the milk, one of our men offered some rudeness to the 
wench that was with her, at which the old woman made a great 
noise ; however, the Seaman would not quit his pnze, but carried 
her out of the old woman's sight among the trees, it being almost 
dark : the old woman went away without her, and, as we may 
suppose, made an outcry among the people she came from, who, 
upon notice, raised this great army upon us in three or four 
hours ; and it was great odds but we had all been destroyed. 

One of our men was killed with a lance thrown at hun just 
at the beginning of the attack, as he sallied out of the tent they 
had made : the rest came off free, all but the fellow who was 
the occasion of all the mischief, who paid dear enough for his 
black mistress, for we could not hear what became of him a 
great whüe. We lay upon the shore two days after, though the 
wind presented, and made signals for him, and made our boat 
sail up shore and down shore several leagues, but in vain, so we 
were obliged to give him over ; and if he alone had suffered for 
it, the loss had been less. 

I could not satisfy myself, however, without venturing on 
shore once more, to try if I could leam any thing of him or 
them : it was the third night after the action that I had a great 
mind to leam, if I could by any means, what mischief we had 
done, and how the game stood on the Indians' side. I was 
careftd to do it in the dark, lest we should be attacked again ; 
but I ought, indeed, to have been sure that the men I went with 
had been under my command, before I engaged in a thing so 
hazardous and mischievous, as I was brought into by it with- 
out desigD. 

We took twenty as stout fellows with us as any in the ship, 
besides the supercargo and myself, and we landed two hours 
before midnight, at the same place where the Indians stood 
drawn up in the evening before: I landed here, because my 
design, as I have said, was chiefly to see if they had quitted the 
field, and if they had left any marks behind them of the mischief 
we had done them ; and 1 thought if we could surprise one or 
two of them, perhaps we might get our man again, by way of 
exchange. 

We landed without any noise, and divided our men into two 
bpdies, whereof the boatswain commanded one, and I the other. 
We neither saw nor heard any body stir when we landed ; and 



862 ADYENTURES OF 

vre marclied up, one body at a distance from the otber, to fLe 
place; but at nrst could see nothing, it being very dark; tillby 
and by our boatswain, who led tbe first party, stumbled and feu 
over a dead body. ' This made them halt awhile ; for knowing 
by the circumstances that they were at the place wbere the 
Indians had stood, they waited for my Coming up there. We con- 
duded to halt tili the moon began to rise, which we knew wonld 
be in less than an honr, when we could easily discem the haTOC 
we had made among them. We told thirty-two bodies upon the 
ground, whereof two were not quite dead; some had an arm, and 
8ome a leg shot off, and one bis head; those that were wounded, 
we suppose, they had carried away. 

When we had made, as I thought, a füll discovery of all we 
could come to the knowledge of, I was resolved for going on 
board; but the boatswain and bis party sent me word that they 
were resolved to make a visit to the Indian town, where these 
dogs, as they called them, dwelt, and asked me to go alons with 
them ; and if they could find them, as they still fancied they 
should, they did not doubt of getting a good booty ; and it might 
be they might find Tom Jeffiy there : that was äie man's name 
we hau lost 

Had they sent to ask my leave to ^o, I knew well enougfa 
what answer to have given them ; for I snould have commanded 
them instantly on board, knowing it was not a hazard fit for iis 
to run, who had a ship, and ship-loading in our charge, and a 
voyage to make which depended very much upon the Hves of 
the men ; but as they sent me word they were resolved to go, 
and only asked me and my Company to go along with them, I 
positively refused it, and rose up, for I was sitting on the ground, 
in Order to go to the boat. One or two of the men began to 
importune me to go ; and when I refused, began to grumble, 
and say that they were not under my command, and they would 
go. Come, Jack, says one of the men, will you go vrith me? 
I'll go for one. Jack said he would, — and then another, — and, 
in a word they all left me but one, whom I persuaded to stay, 
and a boy left in the boat. So the supercargo and I, vrith the 
third man, went back to the boat, where we told them we would 
stay for them, and take care to take in as many of them as 
should be left; for I told them it was a mad thingthey were 
going about, and supposed most of them would run the fate of 
Tom Jeffry. 

They told me, like seamen, they would Warrant it they would 
come off again, and they would take care, &c. ; so away they 
went. I entreated them to consider the ship and the voyage, 
that their lives were not their own, and that they were entrusted 
with the voyage, in some measure ; that if they miscarried, the 
ship might be lost for want of their help, and that they could 
not answer for it to God or man. But I might as well have 



ROBINSON CRUSOE« 363 

talked to the mainmast of the sbip ; they were mad upon tbeir 
joumey, only they gave me good words, and begged I would 
not be angry ; tbat tbey did not doubt but tbey would be back 
again in about an hour at farthest ; for tbe Indian town, they 
Said, was not above half a mile off, though tbey found it above 
two miles before they got to it. 

Well, they all went away ; and though the attempt was des- 
perate, and such as none but madmen would have gone about, 
yet, to giire them their due, they went about it as warily as 
boldly : they were gallantly armed, for they had every man a 
fusee or musket, a bayonet, and a pistol ; some of them had 
broad cuüasses, some of them had haugers, and the boatswain 
and two more had poleaxes ; besides all which they had among 
Üxem thirteen hana-grenadoes : bolder fellows, and better pro- 
yided, never went about any wicked work in the world. 

MHieu they went out, their chief design was plunder, and they 
were in mighty hopes of finding gold there ; but a circumstance, 
which none of them were aware of, set them on fire with revenge, 
and made devils of them all. When they came to the few Indian 
houses which they thought had been the town, which was nat 
above half a mile off, they were under a great disappointment, 
for there were not above twelve or thirteen houses ; and where 
the town was, or how big, they knew not. They consulted, 
therefore, what to do, and were some time before they could 
resolve ; for if they feil upon these, they must cut all their 
throats, and it was ten to one but some of them might escape, 
it being in the night, though the moon was up ; and if one 
escaped, he would run and raise all the town, so they should 
have a whole army upon them : again, on the other band, if 
they went away and left those untouched, for the people were 
all asleep, they could not teil which way to look for the town : 
however, the last was the best advice ; so they resolved to leave 
them, and look for the town as well as they could. They went 
on a little wav, and found a cow tied to a tree ; this, they pre- 
sently concluded, would be a good guide to them ; for, they said, 
the cow certainly belonged to the town before them, or to the 
town behind them ; and if they untied her, they should see which 
way she went : if she went back, they had nothing to say to her; 
but, if she went forward, they would follow her : so they cut the 
cord, which was made of twisted fla^, and the cow went on 
before them, directly to the town ; which, as they reported, con- 
sisted of above two nundred houses or huts, and in some of these 
they found several families living together. 

Here they found all in silence, as profoundly secure as sleep 
could make them ; and, first, they called another Council, to con- 
sider what they had to do ; and, in a word, they resolved tp 
divido themselves into three bodies, and so set three houses on 
ßre in three parts of the town ; and as the men came out^ to 

BB 



354 



ADVENTÜRES OP 



Kseizß them anJ bind tliem (if any resisted, they uetd not be asked 

Iwhat io do thcn), and m to search tlie rest of iho houses ior 

kplunder : taut they rcsolved to marcli silently first tlirough the 

■tonn, üDd see what dimeusions it was of, and if they might 

venture upon it or no. . 

Thcy did so, and desperately resolved tliat they would rentuw I 

-upon tliem : hiit while ihey were animating one another to the 

rWork^ three of them, whu were a little before the rest^ called out 

alüud to them, and told tliem that they had found Tom Jeffry : 

they all ran np to the place» where they fo and the poor fellow 

haot^n^ up naked by one arm, aud his throat cut* Tbere was 

an Indian house just by the tree, wherc they found sixteen or 

seventeen of the principal Indians, who had been concemed in 

the fray with us before, and two or three of them wounded witb 

our shot ; and onr men found they were awake, and taLkiug one 

to another io that house, hnt knew not their number. 

The sight of their poor mangled pomrade so enraged them, as 
before, that they swore to ooe another they would be revcnged, 
and that not an fndian that came into their hands shonld have 
any quarter ; and to work they i^ent iramediately, and yet not 
80 madly as might be expected from the rage and l'ury they were 
in. Their lirst care was to get somethino^ that would soon take 
üre, hntj nfter a httle search, they found that would be to no 
purpose; for most of the houses were low, and thatched witli 
flajrs and ruBhes, of which the country is fuU : so they presently 
made some wildlire, as we call it, by wetting: a little powder in 
the palm of their hands ; and in a qnarter of an hour they set 
the town on fire in four or five places, and particularly that house 
where the Indiaus were not gone to bed» 

As soon as the fire begann to blaze, the poorfrightened creahnres 
began to rush out to save their lives, but met viith their fatc b 
the atterapt ; and especially at the door^ where they drove them 
back, the boatswain himaelf MUinor one or two with his polea^e; 
the houge being large, and many in it, hc did not care to go iß» 
but called for a hand-^^enado, and threw it amon^ them, which l 
&t firat frightened thera, but, when it hurst, made such havoc I 
among thera, that they cried out in a hideoua in anner. In shoru I 
most of the Indiaus who were in Ihe open part of the house were 1 
killed or hurt with the greuado, e:scept two or three who pressed i 
to the door, w^hich the boatswain and two raore kept, with their < 
bayonet« on the muzzles of their pieces, and dispatched all that ^ 
came in their way : but there was another apartment in the 
house, where the prince or kinjr, or whatevcr he was, and sevcral 
others ivere ; and these were kept in tili the house, which was 
>hj this time all in a light flarae, feil in upon them, and they wert 
Brno the red together. 

All thia while they fired not a gnn, benanse they would not 
waken the people faster thaa they could master them ; but the 



fire began to waken them fast enough, and our fellows were glad 
to keep a Utile together in budies ; l'or the fire grew ao ra^ng, 
all the bouses beiiig made of liglit conibiisiible stiiff, that they 
could hardly bear tbe street between tbem ; and tlieir busineas 
was to Ibllow the üre, for the siirer execLitioii ; aa fast as the 
fire either forced tlie pcople out of those houses which were 
biimißg, or frightened tkem ont of citherSj our people were ready 
at their doors to knock tbem on the head, still calling and hal- 
lo oing one to another to remember Tom Jeffry. 

While tbis was duiog, I muat confess I was very uneasy, and 
especially when I saw the tlames of the iowo, which, it bcing 
night, seeined to be just by nie. My uephew, the captain» wbo 
was routied by hia inen, seeing such Jt fire was very imeasy, not 
knowing what the matter waSj or whnt danger I was in, especially 
liearing the ^iis too, for by tbia time they began to ose their 
fire-arms ; a thousaud thoughts oppressed bis mind concerniog 
me and tbe supercargo» w hat would become of us ; andj at last, 
though he could ill spare any more men, yet not kiiowiog wbat 
exigcnce we might be in, be takes another boat, and with thir- 
teen men and himself coraes on ahore to me. 

He was snrprised to see me und the Nnpcrcargo in tbe boat, 
with no more tban two men ; and tbou^b he was glad that we 
were well, yet he was in the aame impatience with us to know 
what. was doing; for the iioiee continued^ aiid thetlatne increased; 
in ßhort, it was next to an impossibility for any man iu the 
World to restrain their curiosity to know what had happened, 
or their coiiccm for the safety of the men : in a word» the cap- 
tain tüld me he woidd go and help hia men, let what would 
comc. 1 nrgued with him, as I did before with the men^ the 
safety of the ship^ tbe danger of the voyagej the intcrest of the 
owners and merchants, Scc,^ and told him J and the two men 
would go, and only see if we could at a distaiice learü what was 
like to be the event, and come back and teil him. It was all 
one to talk to my nephew, as it was to talk to the rest before ; 
he wonld go, he said ; and he only Avi^hed be had letl but ten 
men in the ship ; for he could not thiuk of ha^ing bis men lost 
for want of help j be had rather loa© the ßhip, the voy&ge, aod 
his Mfe ai d all ; and away he went. 

I was HO more able to stay beliind iiow than I was to persuade 
them not to go : so, in short, the captain ordcred two men to 
row back the pinnnce, and fetch Iwelve men more, leaving the 
long-boat at an anchor; and that when they came back» six men 
should heep the two boats, and six more come aftcr us: ao that 
be lelt onlv sixteen meu in the ship ; for the whole ship's com* 
pany consisted of sixty-five men, whereof two were lost in the 
late qnarrel which brought this misrhief on. 

Bciiig now on the maroh, yon niav he sure we feit little of the 
ground wa trod on ; niid being guided by the fire, we kept no 
B B2 



366 ADVENTÜRES OF 

patb) but went directly to the place of tbe flame. If the noise 
of the guns was surprising to us before, the cries of tbe poor 
people Dvere now quite of another nature, and filled us with. 
norror. I muät confess I was never at the sacking a city, or at 
the taking a town by storm. I had heard of Oliver Cromwell 
taking Drogheda, in Ireland, and killing man, woman, and child; 
and I had read of Count Tilly sacking the city of Magdeburg, 
and cutting tbe throats of twenty-two thousand of all sexes ; 
but I never had an idea of tbe thing itself before, nor is it pos* 
sible to describe it, or the horror that was upon our min^ at 
hearing it However, we went on, and at lengtb came to tbe 
town, though there was no eutering the streets of it for tbe fire. 
Tbe first object we met with was the ruins of a hut or house, or 
rather the ashes of it, for tbe house was consumed ; and just 
before it, piain enougb to be seen by the light of the fire, lay 
four men and three women killed, and, as we thougbt, one or 
two more lay in the heap among the fire ; in short, there were 
such instances of rage altogetber barbarous, and of a fury some- 
thing beyond what was human, that we thougbt it impossible 
our men could be guilty of it; or if they were tbe authors of itj 
we thougbt they ought to be every one of them put to the worst 
of deaths. But tbis was not all : we saw the fire increased for^ 
ward, and the cry went on just as the fire went on ; so that we 
were in the utmost confusion. We advanced a little way ferther; 
and, behold, to our astonishment, three naked women, and cry- 
ing in a most dreadful manner, came flying as if they had wings. 
and after them sixteen or seventeen men, natives, in the same 
terror and constemation, with three of our English butchers in 
the rear; who, when they could not overtake them, fired in 
among them, and one that was killed by their shot feil down in 
our sight. When the rest saw us, believing us to be their 
enemies, and that we would murder them as well as tbose that 
pursued them, they set up a most dreadful shriek, especially the 
women, and two of them feil down, as if already dead, wim the 
fright. 

My very soul shrunk within me, and my blood ran chill in my 
veins, when 1 saw this ; and I believe, had the three English 
sailors that pursued them come on, I had made our men kill them 
all : however, we took some ways to let the poor flying creatures 
know that we would not hurt them ; and immediately they came 
up to US, and kneeling down with their hands lifted up, made 
piteous lamentation to us to save them, which we let them know 
we would ; whereupon they crept all together in a buddle close 
behind us, as for protection. I left my men drawn up together, 
and charging them to hurt uobody, but, if possible, to get at 
some of our people, and see what devil it was possessed them, 
and what they intended to do, and to command them oft; assur- 
ing them that if they stayed tili daylight, they would have a 



EOBINSO^ CRUSOE. 



3ö7 



hundred tliousand men about their ears : I say, I left tlicm, and 
went among tbose flying people, taking only t'w o of our meii 
with me; and there was iiideed ii pjteouH spectacle among tliem; 
some of theni had their i'eet ierriblj bnrned, wilh tramplmg aticl 
running through tlie fire, otherd their hands burned ; oiie of the 
womcJi Lad iklleii down in the fire, and was very miich burned 
betöre she could get out aj^ain; and two or three of ihe men had 
cats in their backa and thigivs, from oitr men pitrsuing; aud 
anotlier was shot tbrougli the bodvt and died while 1 was there, 

1 would fain have learned what the occasion of all tliis was, 
bnt I coukl not iinderstaiid oue word they siiid; though. hy signs, 
I perceived some of them koevv nut what \vas the occaHion them- 
selveä* J was so terrifiedj in my thoughts, at tbis outrageoua 
attempt, that I could not stay there, btit w ent back to my own 
men, and resolved to go into the middle of the town, throiigh 
the fire^ or whatevcr uiight he in the way, and put an eud to it, 
coat what it would : accordindy, as I carae back to my men, I 
told them my resohuion, and commanded thera to follow me; 
wben at the very momeiit came fbiir of our men, with the boat- 
swain at their head, roving over hcapa of bodies they hiid killed, 
all covered with blood and dnai, as if they wanted niore people 
to massacre, wheo oiir men hallo oed to them as loud as they 
could halloo ; and with much ado one of thera made them hear, 
äo that they knew who we were, and came iip to us. 

As soon as the boatswain saw us, he set up a halloo like a 
shout Ol' triuniph, for ha\ing, as he thought, more help come ; 
and without waiting to hear nie, Captain, says he, noble captaln! 
1 am glad you arc come; we are not half done yet; vdianous 
hell-hound dog^s! Hl kill as many of them as poor Tora has 
liairs upon bis head : we have sworn to spare none of them ; 
well root out the very nation of thera frora the earth : and thns 
he ran on, out of hreath too with aetion, and would not give us 
leave to *speak a word, 

At last, raistng my voice^ that I might silence him a little, 
Barbarous dog! said [, what are you doing? I won't have one 
cpeature touched more, upon pain of death : I charge yoii upon 
yoiir life, to stop your hands» and stand still here, or you are a 
dead man tbis mninte. — Why, air, says he^ do you know what 
you do, or what tbey have done / If you wnnt a reason for what 
we have done, come hither ; and with that he showed me the 
poor fellow hanging^ with bis throat cut- 

1 coniesa I was urged then myself, and at another time would 
Imve beeti forward enough ; hut 1 thought they had cArried their 

ge too far, and rcmembered Jacob 's words to his sons Simeon 

Eid Levi — **Cursed be thiMP anger, for it was fierce; and tbeir 

wtath, for it was cruel." Bot 1 had now a new task upon my 

haud^; for wben the men I carried with me saw the sight» as I 

bad done, I had as mueh to do to restrain them as 1 shonld have 



368 ADVENTURES OF 

had witb the others ; nay, my nephew himself feil in with them, 
and told me, in their hearing, that he was only concemed for fear 
ef the men being overpowered; and as to the people, he thooght 
not one of them ought to live; for they had all glutted themselves 
with the murder of the poor man, and that they ought to be 
osed like murderers : upon these words, away ran eight of my 
men, with the boatswain and his crew, to complete their bloody 
work ; and I, seeing it quite out of my power to restrain them, 
came away pensive and sad ; for I could not bear the sigbt, much 
less the horrible noise and cries of the poor wretches tihat feil 
into their hands. 

I got nobody to come back with me but the supercargo and 
two men, and with these walked back to the boat. It was a very 
great piece of folly in me, I confess, to venture back as it were 
alone; for as it began now to be almost day, and the alarm had 
run over the country, there stood about forty men, armed with 
lances and bows, at the little place where the twelve or thirteen 
houses stood mentioned before ; but by accident I missed the 
place, and came directly to the seaside ; and by the time I got 
to the seaside it was broad day ; immediately I took the pinnace 
and went on board, and sent her back to assist the men in what 
might happen. 

I observed, about the time that I came to the boat's side, that 
the fire was pretty well out, and the noise abated: but in about 
half an hour after I got on board I heard a volley of cur men 's 
fire-arms, and saw a great smoke : this, as I imderstood after- 
wards, was our men falling upon the men who, as I said, stood 
at the few houses on the way, of whom they killed sixteen or 
seventeen, and set all the houses on fire, but did not meddle with 
the women or children. 

By the time the men got to the shore again with the pinnace, 
our men began to appear; they came dropping in, not in two 
bodies as they went, but straggling here and there in such a 
manner, that a small force öf resolute men might have cut them 
all off. But the dread of them was upon the whole country ; and 
the men were surprised, and so frightened, that l believe a hun- 
dred of them would have fled at the sight of but five of our men ; 
nor in all this terrible action was there a man that made any 
considerable defence ; they were so surprised between the terror 
of the fire and the sudden attack of our men in the dark, that 
they knew not which way to tum themselves ; for if they fled 
one way they were met by one party ; if back again, by another; 
so that they were every where knocked down : nor did any of 
our men receive the least hurt, except one that sprained his foot, 
and another that had one of his hands burned. 

I was very angry with my nephew, the captain, and, indeed, 
with all the men, in my mind, but with him in particular, as well 
for his acting so out of his duty, as Commander of the ship, and 



ROBINSON CRUSOE* 



369 



liaviDg the cbarge of tlie voyage upoi^ bim, ßs in hiä proinptinf^, 
rather tban cooling, the rage of bis blind merij in so hldocly and 
cruel an enterprise. Mj nephew answered me very respectfuUy, 
bnt toi d ine that wlien lie saw ihe body uf the poor ßeamaa wbom 
tbey had raurdcred in so eruel and barbarous a manner, be was 
not master of birasclfj neitlier coutd he govern bis passion : be 
owued he Bhould not bave doüe so, as he w&s oonimauder of tbe 
ship ; bat as be was a man, and nature moved bini, be could not 
bear it. As for tbe rest oi' tbe raen, tbey were not subject to 
me at all, and tbey knew it weil enougb ; so tbey took uo notice 
of my dislike. 

The next day we set »ail, so we never beard any more of it. 
Our nicn dilTered in tlie account of the number tbey had killed ; 
but acconling to tbe beat of their acroimti?, put all togetbcr, tbey 
killed or destroyed about onc hundred and ßfty pcople, meuj 
TToraen, and children, aod left not a hoiise Standing in tbe town, 
As for the poor fellow Totn JelTry, as he was quite dead (for Im 
tbroat was st* cut tbat hia head was half offj, it would do bim no 
Service to bring hira away ; so tbey only took bim down from 
the tree, wbere he was hanging by one band, 

Huwever just our men thought tbis aetioa, I was against tbem 
in it, and I alivays alter that time told them God woiild blast tbe 
voyage; for 1 looked upon all the blood they ahed that night to 
be murder in tbem ; for thongh it Ls true tbat ihey had killed 
Tom JeJlVy, yet Jeffiry was the aggressor, had broken the truce, 
and had violated or debancbed a yojing wo man of theirs, who 
came down to tbcra innocently, and on ihe laith of tbe public 
capitulation. 

The boatswain defended this quarrel when we were afterwards 
on board. He taid it was trtie that we seemed to break the 
truce, but reaiiy bad not; and that tbe war was beguu the night 
before by tbe natives themselvcü, wbo bad shot at ua, and kiÜcd 
one of OUT men witbout any just provocation; so tbat as we 
were in a capacity to figbt them now, we might also be in a 
capa^'ity to do ourselves justice upon tbem in an extraordinary 
manner; that thougb the poor man bad takco & little libcny 
with tbe wencb, be ougbt not to bave been mnrdered, and tbtit 
in such a villanous manner j and that they did nothing but wbat 
waa just, and wbat tbe iaws of God allowed to be done to mur- 
derers. 

One would tbink thi^ should have been enougb to bave warned 
ys against going on sbore amongst beatbens and barbahans : 
but it ia inipossible to make mankind wise but at tbeir own 
expense ; and their experience scems to be always of mott use 
to tbem when it is dearest bongbt. 

We were now bound to the galt' of Persia, and fi'om thence to 
tbe coast of Coromiindel, only to toucb at Sumt; bnr the ehief 
of tbe Bupertjargo's design lay at tbe bay of Bengal ; where if he 



370 ADVENTÜRES OP 

missed liis basiness outward-bound, he was to go up to China, 
and retum to the coast as he came home. 

The first disaster that befel us was in the gtdf of Persia, where 
five of cur men venturing on shore on the Arabian side of the 
gulf, were surrounded by the Arabians, and either all killed or 
carried away into slavery : the rest of the boat*s crew were not 
able to rescue them, and had bat just time to get off tbeir boat. 
I began to upbraid them with the just retribution of Heaven in 
this case ; but the boatswain yery wannly told me, he thought I 
went farther in my censures than I could show any Warrant for 
in Scripture ; and referred to Luke xiii. 4, where oor Saviour 
intimates that those men on whom the tower of Siloam feil were 
not sinners above all the Galileans ; but that which put me to 
silence in the case was, that not one of these five men who were 
now lost were of those who went on shore to the massacre of 
Madagascar, so I always cailed it, though our men could not 
bear to hear the word massacre with any patience. 

But my frequent preaching to them on the subject bad worse 
eonsequenees than I expected ; and the boatswain who had been 
the head of the attempt, came up boldly to me one time, and 
told me he found that I brought that affair continually npon the 
stage; that I made unjust reflections upon it, and had used 
the men yery iU on that account, and himself in particular; 
that as I was but a passenger, and had no command in the 
ship, or concem in the voyage, they were not obliged to bear 
it ; that they did not know but I might have some ill design 
in my head, and perhaps to call them to an account for it 
when they came to England; and that, therefore, unless I 
would resolve to have done with it, and also not to concem 
myself any farther with bim, or any of his affairs, he wouW 
leave the ship j for he did not think it was safe to sail with me 
among them. 

I heard him patiently enough tili he had done, and then told 
him, that I confessed I had all along opposed the massacre of 
Madagascar, and that I had, on all occasions, spoken my mind 
freely about it, though not more upon him than any of the 
rest ; that as to having no command in the ship, that was true; 
nor did l exercise any authority, only took the liberty of 
speaking my mind in things which publicly concemed us all; 
and what concem I had in the voyage was none of his business ; 
that I was a considerable owner in the ship ; in that claim, I 
conceived I had a right to speak even farther than I had done, 
and would not be accountable to him or any one eise ; and began 
to be a little warm with him. He made but little reply to me 
at that time, and I thought the affair had been over. We were 
at this time in the road at Bengal ; and being willing to see the 
place, I went on shore with the supercargo, in the ship 's boat, 
to divert myself; and tow^rds evening was preparing to go on 



HOfilKSOI^ CftUSOE, 



371 



boardj whcn one of the mcn eame to rae, and told mc lie woiild 
not have me trouble niyself to come down to the boat, ihr tlity 
had Orders not to carry rae on board any more. Auy one may 
gue^s irvliat a surpriöe I was in at ao insolent a mcssage ; and 
I asked the mau wbo bade bim dcliver that messag-e to me.' 
He toid nie, the cockswain. I said no more to the fellowp bat 
bade bim let them know be had delivered bis tneseage, and that 
[ had given bim no ans« er to it. 

I imraediittely went and found out the supercargo, and tokl 
bim the story^ addini^, whicb i presently foresawi that there 
wonld be a mutiny in the sbip ; and entreated bim to go imme- 
diately on board the ship in an Iiidian boat, and acqnaint the 
captain of it. Bnt I might have spared tliiü intellig^cnce, lar 
beibre j had spoken to hini on shore tbe matter wnä elTectcd on 
board. Tbe boatswain, the ^inner, the carpenter, and all the 
inferior officers» as soon as 1 w as gone otf in the boat, came np, 
aod deaired to speak with the eaptain ; and there the boaiavvain, 
makin^ a long baranjpie, and repeating all he had said to nie, 
told the captain, in a lew words, that as I was now gonc peace- 
ably on shore, they were ioath to use any violence with me, 
wbicb^ if [ had not ^one on sbore, they wonld otherwise have 
done, lo obli^e me to have gone • they thereibre Ihoiigbt lit to 
teil him, tliat as they shipped theniselves to serve in the ship 
undcr hi:j command, they wonld perlbrm it well and faithfuily ; 
but if r w ould not quit tiie ship^ or the captain ob! ige me to quit 
it, they wonid all leave the ship, and sail no farther with him ; 
and at that word n//, he tu med bis face towards the mainmast, 
which was, it seems, the signal agreed on between them, at 
which all the seamen^ being got togetber therci cried aut| One 
and all! one anä all! 

My nepbew» the oaptain, was a man of spirit, and of great 
presence of miud ; and thongb he w as snrprised, you may be 
^ure, at the thing, yct be told theiii culuily that he woiild eonsi- 
der of the matter ; but that he eoidd do nothing in it tili hc had 
spoken to me nbont it. Ho used some argunienls with them 
to show them tbe unrcasonablencss and injustice nf tbe thing : 
but it was all in vain ; they swore and sbook bands roiuid beibre 
hisfacei that they would all go on shore^ nnless be would engage 
to them not to siifler me to come any tnore on board the ship. 

This was a bard article upon bim, who knew his Obligation 
to me, and did not know how^ I might take it : so he began to 
talk amartly to them ; told tbem that I was a Tery considerable 
owncr of tbe «hip, and that, in justice, be could not put me out 
of my own hoiise ; ihat this w as next door to aerving me as tbe 
iamous pirate Kidd had done, who made a mntiny in the ship, 
set the captain on shore on an uniubabited island, and ran away 
with the ship ; that let them go iuto what ship they would, if 
ever they came tu England aga'm it would cost tbem very dear ; 



372 



ADVENTÜRES OP 



that the ship was mine, and that he could not put me out of it • 
and that he would rather lose the ship and the voyage too than 
disoblige me so much ; so they migbt do as they pleased : how- 
ever, he would go on shore and talk with me, ajid invited the 
boatswain to go with him, and perhaps they might accommodate 
the matter with me. But they all rejected the proposal, and 
Said they would have nothing to do with me any mote ; and if I 
came on board, they would all go on shore. Well, said the cap- 
tain, if you are all of this mind, let me go on shore and talk with 
him. So away he came to me with this account, a Uttle aller Üie 
message had been brought to me from the cockswain. 

I was very glad to see my nephew, I must confess ; for I was 
not without apprehensions that they would confine him by vio- 
lence, set sail, and run away with the ship : and then I had been 
stripped naked in a remote country, having nothing to help my- 
self : in short, I had been in a worse case than when I was alone 
in the island. But they had not come to that length, it seems/ 
to my satisfaction ; and when my nephew told me what they 
had said to him, and how they hau sworn and shook hands that 
they would, one and all, leave the ship if I was suffered to come 
on board, I told him he should not be concerned at it at all, for 
I would stay on shore : I only desired he would take care and 
send me all my necessary things on shore, and leave me a suf- 
ficient sum of money, and I woiüd find my way to England as well 
as I could. 

This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew, but there was 
no way to help it but to comply ; so, in short, he went on board 
the ship again, and satisfied the men that his uncle had yielded 
to their importunity, and had sent for his goods from on board 
the ship : so that the matter was over in a few hours, the men 
returned to theii* duty, and I began to consider what course I 
should steer. 




ROBINSON CRCSOEU 



srs 



SECTION XLIL 



MEETS WITH AN ENGLISH MERCIIANT WITII WlIOM HE MAKES SO ME 
TaADLVG VOVAGES.— THEY ARE MIST AKEN FOR PI RAT ES — YAN- 
QUISII TU Em PURSUERS.— 'VOYAG£ TO CHINA. — RENCONTRE WITH 
THE COCHIN CHIxNESE.— ISLAND OF FORMOSA, — CULF OF NANQUIN. 
— APPREHENiSlONS OF FALLING ^TO THE HANDS OF THE DUTCH. 

I WAS now alone in tlie most remote part of the world, as I 
thitik 1 may call it, for l was riear thre« thousaiid leagues hy 
sea liirther off JVom Kngland tban I was at m y iaiand ; only, it 
is true, 1 miglit travel here by laixd over the great Mo^il's 
couütry to Sumt, mi^lit go froni tlience to Bassora by aea, up the 
gulf of Persia, and take tlie way of the caravans, over the Desert 
üf Arabia, to Aleppo and Seanderoonj from tlience by sea again 
to Italy, imd so overland into France ; atid ihis piit together 
might at leaat be a füll diiunetcr of the glubc^ or niore. 

1 had another way before me» which was to wait for some 
English ahips, wliich wcre coming^ to Ben<rai from Achiii^ on the 
ishtiid of Sumatra, and get passage on bonrtl them lor England. 
But as I came hither without any concern with the EngUsh East 
India Company, so it would be difficult to go from hcrice with- 
out their Ucense, unless with great iavour of the captains of 
the Bhipsj, or the Company '3 factors, and to boüi 1 was an utter 
b tratiger. 

llere I had the mortification to see the ship set sail -without 
me j a treatment I think a man in my circurastances scarce ever 
mct with, except when pirales running away with the ship, and 
öetting thüse that would not agrec with their villany on shortj. 



374 ADVENTÜRES OP 

Indced, tbis was next door to it, both ways ; bowever, my nepbew 
left me two servants, or rather one companion and one servaut ; 
the first was clerk to the purser, wbom he engaged to go witli 
me, and the other was bis own servant. I took me also a 
good lodging in the house of an Englishwoman, where several 
merchants lodged, some French, two Italians, or rather Jews, 
and oue Enzlishman; here I was handsomely enough enter- 
tained: and that I raight not be said to ran rashly upon anything, 
I stayed here above nine months considering what course to 
take, and how to manage myself. I had some English goods 
with me of valae, and a considerable sum of money ; my nepbew 
furnishing me with a thousand pieces of cigjk^ and a letter of 
credit for more, if I had occasion, that I m%lit not be straitened, 
whatever might happen. 

I quickly msposed of my goods to advantage, and, as I origi- 
nally intended, I bought here «obm Tery good d^amonds, which, 
of all other things, were the most proper for me, in my present 
circumstances ; because I could always carry my whole estate 
about me. 

After a long stay here, and many proposals made for my re- 
turn to England, but none falling out to my mind, the English 
merchant who lodged with me, and wbom I had contracted an 
intimate acquaintance with, came to me one moming. Country- 
man, says he, I have a project to communicate to you, which, as 
it suits with my thoughts, may, for aught I know, suit with yours 
also, when you shall have tboroughly considered it. Here we 
are posted, you by accident, and I by my own choice, in a part 
of the World very remote from our own country; but it is in a 
country where, by us who understand trade and business, a great 
deal of money is to be got. If you will put one thousand pounds 
to my one thousand pounds, we will hire a ship here, the first 
we can get to our minds; you shall be captain, I'U be merchant, 
and we'U go a trading voyage to China : for what should we stand 
still for? The wbole world is in motion, rolling round and 
round ; all the creatures of God, heavenly bodies and earthly, 
are busy and diligent : why should we be idle ? There are no 
drones in the world but men ; why should we be of that number? 

I liked this proposal very well, and the more because it seemed 
to be expressed with so much good will, and in so friendly a 
manner. I will not say but that I might, by my loose nnhinged 
circumstances, be the fitter to embrace a proposal for trade, or 
indeed any thing eise ; whereas, otherwise, trade was none of 
my Clement. However, I might perhaps say with soohe truth, 
that if trade was not my dement, rambling was, and no pro- 
posal for seeing any part of the world which I had never seen 
before could possibly come amiss to me. 

It was, however, some time before we could get a ship to our 
minds, and when we had got a vessel, it was not easy to get 



ROBINSON CRÜBOE. 



£73 



En§:lis!i sailora ; tbat ia tn say, so rnany as were necesaary to 
govern the voyage and manage the sailors wliich we sLould pick 
up there, After some time we got a male, a boatawain, and a 
^nner, English; a Dutch carpenter, and three tbreraai^tmcri. 
With these we found we could do well euough, having Indian 
seamen, aueh as tliey were» to inake up. 

There are so mativ travellers whu have wrote tlie liistorv of 
tbeir voyages and travels ihig way, that it would be very little 
divcrsion to atiy body to ^ve a long account of the places we 
went to, and the people wboinliabit tliere : theae tliiiigs I leave 
to otliers^ and refer the readi'f to those journak and travels of 
En^rmhmen t>f whirh many 1 find are published and more pro- 
mised every day ; it m enouorh Ibr me to teil you that we inade 
this voyage to Achin, in the island of Sinnatra, and from the nee 
to Slam, where we exchauf^ed some of oiir wares Ibr opiiim and 
some arrack ; the fin^t ft commodity which bears & gre&t price 
among the Chinese, and which, at that tinie, was much wanted 
there. In a word, we went up to Suskan, made a very ^eat 
voyanre, were eight monthü out» and retumed to Bengal; and I 
was very well satifsfied with my ad venture. J observe that our 
people in Enphinfi orten admire how officers which the Company 
send into India, and the merchants whicb generally stay ttcre, 
get such very great eatalea as they dt>, and sometimes come home 
worth sixty or seveuty ihousand pounds at a tuiie ; bat it is uo 
wonder, or at leaat we sbali see so much fartber into it, when we 
consider the innumemble ports and phices where they have a 
free commerce, that it will be none ; and much IcüS will it be so 
wben we consider that at tbose places and ports wbere the 
English shipa corne, there is auch g^reat and constant demandä für 
the gn*o^^th of all other countries, that there ia a eertain vent for 
the retuma, as well as a market abraad Ibr the goodä carried out. 

In short, wo made a very ja^ood voyagre, and I erot so mach 
money by my first adventnrej and such an insight into the 
raethod of getting raore, that bad I been tweuty years younger, 
I should have been tempted to have stayed here, and sought no 
fartber for makintr any Ibrtune : but what was all tbis to a mau 
upwards of threescore, tbat was rieh enough, and came abroad 
more in obedience to a restless desire of seein^ the world thau a 
covetous deiiire of gaining by it ? Atid, iodeed, I think it is with 

f'eat justice I now call it restless desire, for it was so. When 
was at home, I was restless to ^o abroad; and when I was 
übroftd, I was restless to be at home« 1 say, what was this gain 
to me? I was rieh enough already, nor bad I any uneasy desires 
fibout getting rnore money; and therefore tbe pr<jfit of the 
vorage to me was of no gr**at forre for tbe promptint^ me for ward 
toVarther undertakings ; heuce I tbought tliat by this voyage I 
liad made no progress at al!, because I was come back, ag I migbt 
rall it, to the place from whcnce X carne, as to a home; whereas 



376 ADVENTURES OF 

my eve, whicb, like tliat whicli Solomon speaks of, was never 
satisäed with seeing, was still desirous of wandering and seeing 
more. I was come into a part of the world which I was never 
in before, and that part, in particular, which I bad heard mudi 
of, and was resolved to see as much of it as I could ; and then I 
tbougbt I might say I had seen all the World that was worth 
seeing. 

But my fellow traveller and I had different notions : I do not 
name this to insist on my own, for I acknowledge bis were tbe 
most just, and the most suited to the end of a mercbant's life; 
who, when he is abroad upon adventures, it is bis wisdom to 
stick to that, as the best thing for bim, which he is like to get 
tbe most money by. Mv new friend kept bimself to the nature 
of the thing, and would nave been content to have gone like a 
carrier's horse, always to the same iun, backward and forward, 
provided he could, as he called it, find bis account in it. On tbe 
other band, mine was the notion of a mad rambling boy, that 
. never cares to see a thing twice over. But this was not all : I 
bad a kind of impatience upon me to be nearer home, and yet 
the most unsettled resolution imaginable which way to go. In 
the interval of these consultations, my friend, who was always 
upon tbe search for business, proposed another vovage to me 
among tbe Spiee Islands, and to bring home a loading of doves 
from the Manillas, or thereabouts ; places, indeed, where the 
Dutch trade, but Islands belonging partly to the Spaniards; 
though we went not so far, but to some other, where they have 
not the wbole power, as they have at Batavia, Ceylon, &c. 

We were not long in preparing for this voyage ; tbe chief diffi- 
culty was in bringing me to come into it: however, at last, nothing 
eise oifering, and finding that really stirring about and trading, 
the profit being so great, and, as I may say, certain, had more 
pleasure in it, and had more satisfaction to my mind, than sitting 
still, which, to me especially, was the unhappiest part of my 
life, I resolved on this voyage too, which we made very success- 
fully, touching at Borneo, and several islands whose names I do 
not remember, and came home in about five months. We sold 
our spiee, which was chiefly cloves and some nutmegs, to the 
Persian merchants, who carried them away to tbe gulf; and 
raaking near five of one, we really got a great deal of money. 

My friend, when we made up this account, smiled at me: 
Well now, Said he, with a sort of agreeable insult upon my 
indolent temper, is not this better than Walking about here, like 
a man of nothing to do, and spending our time in staring at the 
nonsense and ignorance of the Pagans ? — Why, truly, says I, my 
friend, I think it is, and I begin to be a convert to the principles 
of merchandising ; but I must teil you, said I, by the way, you 
do not know what I am doing ; for if I once conquer my back- 
wardness, and embark heartUy, as old as I am, 1 shall harass 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



377 



you np and down tlic ivoild tili I tirc you j for I stall pursue it 
80 eagerly, I sliall never let von lie stilL 

But, to be stört witb my speciüationa, a litile wliile after ttis 
there came in a Dutcb stip trom Batavia ; sbe was a coaster, 
not an EuropeaD trader, of'about Uvo bundretl tonä burtlien ; tbe 
men, as tbey pretended, liaving becn so sickly, tbat the captain 
Lad not bands enougb to go to sea witt, lic Jay by at Bengal ; 
and liavin«:, it seemä, got nioney enough, or being; willin^, for 
other rcasoos, to go for Europe, lie gtive public notice he would 
Bell bis sbip. This caine to mj ears before my tiew partner bcard 
öf itj and 1 liad a ^eat mind to buy jt ; so I went to hiirij and 
told bim of it. He considered aw bile, lor bo was no rash man 
neitber ; but musiug Bome time, he replicd, Sbe is a little too 
big; bat^ howcver, we will Imve her. Aceordiugly, we bougbt 
the ship^ and agreeing witb tlic master, we paid for her, and tO(}k 
possession. Wben wehad done so, we resolved to enleriaia the 
inen, if we could, to jom tbcm with those we had, for the pur- 
uuing our busincss ; but oii a sudden, tbey having received, not 
Iheir wages, but tbeir sbare of the money, as we aftenvards 
learncd, not one of theiii was to he fonnd ; we int^uired miich 
ahout them, and at length were told that tbcy wcreall gone toge- 
tlier bv iand to Agra, tlie great citv of tbe MügnFa rcsidence, and 
froin ilience to travel to Suratj and go by sea to the gnlf of Persia. 

Nothing liad so rauch troubled nie a good wbile as tbat I sliould 
niisa the opportunity of going witb them ; for Rncb a rarable, 1 
thougbt, and in such Company as would both have guarded and 
diverted me, would have suited miglitily witli my great design; 
and 1 should have both scen tbe woild and gone bomewanls too: 
but I was mach better öati^+iied a few daya aller, when I canie to 
know whatsort of fellows they were; for, in abort, tbeir liistory 
was, that this man they calied captain was the gunner only, not 
the Commander; that they bad beet\ a trading voyage, in whicli 
they had been attacked on sbore by some of the Malays, who had 
killed the captain and three of bis men ; and that atter Üie captain 
was killed^ these raen, eleven in nnmberi had reaolved to run 
away witb the sbipt which they did, and brougbt her to Bengal, 
leaving ibe mate and five men more on abore ; of whom hereatter. 

Welj, iet them get the ahip how they would, we camc bonestly 
by her, as we thought, thongb we did not, I conJess, examine 
into things so exactly as we ought ; for we never inquired any- 
tbing of the seamen, who would certainly have faltered in tbeir 
account, contradictcd one another, and perhaps contradictcd 
thetnaelves ; er one how or other we should have bad reason to 
have ffuspected them : but the man showed ns a bill of sale für 
tlie shipf to one Enianuel Clostersboven, or some such nanie, for 
I snppoHe it was all a forgcry, and called iiimsclJ' by tliat name, 
and we could not contradict bim ; and witbal, having no bub- 
picion of the tliing, we went througti \iitb our bargain. 



378 ADVENTÜ&BS QT 

We picked up some more English sailors here after this, and 
Bome Dutch ; and now we resolved for a second voyage to Üie 
Bouth-east for cloves, &c. ; that is to say, among the Pl^ilippine 
and Moluoca isles ; and, in sbort, not to fill up this pari of mj 
Story with trifles, when what is to come is so remarkable, I 
spent, from first to last, six years in this country, trading from 
port to port, backward and forward, and with very good success, 
and was now tbe last year with my new partner, going in the 
ship abovementioned, on a voys^e to China, but designing first 
to Slam, to buy rice. 

In this voyage, being by contrary winds obliged to beat np 
and down a great while in tbe straits of Malacca, and among the 
Islands, we were no sooner got clear of tbose. difficult seas than 
we found our ship bad sprang a leak, and we were not able, by 
all our industry, to find out wbere it was. This forced us to make 
some port ; and my partner, who knew tbe country better than 
I did, directed tbe captain to put into tbe river of Cambodia ; for 
I bad made tbe English mate, one Mr. Thompson, captain, not 
being willing to take tbe Charge of the ship upon myself. This 
river lies on the north side of tbe great bay or gulf wbicb goes 
up to Siam. While we were bere, and going often on shore for 
refreshment, there comes to me one day an £nglishman, and be 
was, it seems, a gunner's-mate on board an English East Indis 
ship whicb rode in tbe same river, at or near Üie city of Cam- 
bodia ; what brought bim bither we knew not ; but be comes to 
me, and speaking English, Sir, says be, you are a stranger to 
me, and I to you, but I have something to teil you that very 
nearly concerns you. 

I looked steadfastly at him a good while, and thought at first 
I bad known bim, but I did not : If it very nearly concerns me, 
Said I, and not yourself, what moves you to teil it to me ? — ^1 am 
moved, says be, by the imminent danger you are in, and, for 
aught I see, you have no knowledge of it. — I know no danger 
I am ip, says I, but that my ship is leaky, and I cannot find it 
out ; but I intend to lay her aground to-murrow, to see if I cm 
find it. — But, sir, says be, leaky or not leaky, find it or not find 
it, you will be wiser than to lay your ship on shore to-morrow, 
when you hear what I have to say to you : do you know, sir, 
Said he, tbe town of Cambodia lies about fifteen leagues up this 
river? aud there are two large English ships about five leagnes 
on this side, and three Dutch. — Well, said 1, and what is that to 
me ? — Wby, sir, said he, is it for a man that is upon such adven- 
tures as you are, to come into a port and not examine first 
what ships there are there, and wbether he is able to deal with 
them? I suppose you do not think you are a matcb for them? 
I was amused very much at bis discourse, but not amaaed 
at it, for I could not coneeive what be meant ; and I tumed sborc 
upon him, and said, Sir, I wish you would explain yourself; 



HOBINSON CRXJSOE. 



379 



I canoot ima^ne wbafc reason I have to be afraid of any of the 
Company 'a shipa, or Dutch sMpa ; I am iio interloper ; vvhatcan 
they have to say to me ? He looked like a man hulf an^^ry and 
half pleased^ and pam^ing awbile, bwt smiling, Well» sir, says he, 
if you think youraulf secure, you mtist take vour chance ; l am 
sorry vour fate should blind you against good ad vice : but assure 
yourself, if you do not put to sea imraediately, von will the very 
next tide be altacked by live loogboats füll ol men, and perbaps, 
il^you are taken, you will be banged (bc u piratc, and the parti* 
culars be exaniined atlerwanls, I thoucrht, sir, added he, I sboidd 
have met with a better receptioii than this, for doing you a 
piece of Service of such ioiportauce. — I cau never be uiij^rateful, 
Said Ij for any service^ or to any mau that öfters me any kind- 
neaa ; but it ia past my comprebeuäioii wbat tbey shonld have 
such a desjgn upon mo for : however, since you aay thcre ia no 
time tu be lost, and that tliere 13 some \illanous desi^ on band 
agaiuat me, I will go on board this minute, and put to sea 
imraediately, if my men cyin stop the leak, or if we can swira 
without stopping it : but, sir, said I, shall I go away i^^orant 
of the cause of all this ? Can you gfive me no further light into 
it l — I can teil you but part of the story, sir, says he ; but I have 
a Dutch Seaman bere with me, and I believe I could persuade 
him to teil you the rest; but there is sciirce time for it: but the 
sbort of the story is tbis, tbe first part uf which, I suppose, you 
know well enough, viz. that you was with this ship at Sumatra ; 
that there your captain was murdered by the Malays, with 
three of bis men ; and that you, or some of thoae that wero ou 
board with you, ran away witli tlio ship, and are since tumed 
pirates. This js tbe sum of the story, and you will all be seized 
as pirates, 1 can assure von, and executed with very little cere- 
mony ; for you know merchant ships show but little law to 
pirutes» if they get theni into their power. — Now you speak 
piain Engrlish, said I, and I thank you ; and tliougb I know 
nothing that we bave dnnc like wbat you talk of, for I am sure 
we eame honeslly and fairly by the ship ; yet seeing such a work 
is doing, as you say, and that you seem to mean bonestly, 1 will 
be upon my guard. — Nay, sir, says he, do not talk ahout being 
upon your guard ; tbe best defence is, to be out of the danger ; 
if you have any regard for your life, and tbe lives of all your 
men, put to sea, witbout tail, at high water ; and aa you have a 
whole tide beforc you, you will be gone too far out before they 
can corae down ; for they will come away at high water, and as 
they have tweuty miles to come, you will get near two hours 
of them by the dilFerence of the tide, not reckoning the length 
of the way ; besides, m they are only boats, and not ships, tbey 
will not venture to follow you far out to sea, espccially if it 
blows. — Well, Said I, you have been very kind in this ; wbat 
shall I do for you to make you amends ? — Sir, says he, you may 

cc 



380 ADVENTURES OF 

not be willing to make me any amends, because you may notbe 
conyinced of the truth of it : I will make an offer to you ; I have 
nineteen months' pay due to me on board the sliip ***, which I 
came out of England in ; and the Dutchman tiiat is with me has 
seven months' pay due to him ; if you will make good our pay 
to US, we will go along with you : if you find nothing more in it, 
we will desire no more ; but if we do conyince you that we have 
saved your lives, and the ship, and the lives of all tlie men in 
her, we will leave the rest to you. 

I consented to this readily, and went immediately on board* 
and the two men with me. As soon as I came to the ship's 
side, my partner, who was on board, came out on the quarter- 
deck, and called to me, with a great deal of joy, O ho ! O ho ! we 
have stopped the leak ! we have stopped the leak ! — Say you so? 
Said I, thank God ; but weigh anchor then immediately. — Weigh ! 
says he: what do you mean by that? What is the matter? — 
Ask no questions, said I ; but all hands to work, and weigh 
without losing a minute. He was surprised, but, however, he 
called the captain, and he immediately ordered the anchor to be 
got up ; and though the tide was not quite down, yet a little land 
breeze blowing, we stood out to sea. Then I called him into the 
cabin, and told him the story ; and we called in the men, and they 
told US the rest of it: but as it took up a great deal of time, 
before we had done a seamen comes to the cabin door, and called 
out to US that the captain bade him teil us we were chased. 
Chased ! says I ; by what? — By five sloops, or boats, says the 
fellow, fiill of men. — Very well, said I ; then it is apparent there 
is something in it. In the next place I ordered all our men to 
be called up, and told them there was a design to seize the ship, 
and to take us for pirates, and asked them if they would stand 
by US, and by one another : the men answered cheerfully, one 
and all, that they would live and die with us. Then I asked the 
captain what way he thought best for us to manage a fight with 
them ; for resist them I was resolved we would, and that to the 
last drop. He said readüy that the way was to keep them 
off with our great shot as long as we could, and then fire at them 
with our smail arms, to keep them from boarding us ; but when 
neither of these would do any longer, we should retire to our 
close quarters ; perhaps they had not materials to break open 
our bulk-heads, or get in upon us. 

The gunner had, in the mean time, Orders to bring two guns 
to bear fore and aft, out of the steerage, to clear the deck, and 
load them with musket bullets and smaU pieces of old iron, and 
what came next to band ; and thus we made ready for fight : but 
all this while we kept out to sea, with wind enough, and could see 
the boats at a distance, being five large longboats, foUowing us 
with all the sail they could make. 

Two of those boats (which by our glasses we could see weiie 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



331 



Kngllsb) ontsailed the rest, were near two lea^es ahead of 
thera, aiid gained «pon ua considerably^ so tbat we foiind they 
would eome up mih us ; upoti wliich we fired a gun without 
ball, to intimate tbat tbey sbould bring to; and we put out a 
llag of tnice, as a Signal for parley ; but tbey came crowding 
after us, tili tbey came within shot, when we took in our white 
flag"^ tbey baving made no answer to it, and bung out a red flag, 
and fired at them witli sbot. Notwithstanding thia, tbey came 
on tül tbey were near enougli to call to them Trith a speaking- 
trumpet whicH we had on board ; so we caUed to themj and bade 
them keep off, at their peril. 

It was all ;Oiie : they crowded after us, and endeavonred to 
come undef our stem^ so as to board na on onr qnarter ; upon 
which, seeing tbey were resolute for miachief, and depcnded 
upon the strength tliat füUowed tbcm, I ordered to bring the 
ahip to, so tbat tbey lay npon our broadside ; when immediately 
we fired üve gims at them, one of wbich bad been levelled so 
true as to carry away the stem of the Mndermost boat, and bring 
them to the necessity of taldng down tbeir sail, and running all 
to the head of the boat to keep her from sinking; so she lay by, 
and had enongh of it ; but seeing the foremost boat crowd on 
after ns, we made ready to tire at her in particular. While tbis 
was doing, one of the three boats that was behind, heing for- 
w arder than the other two, made np to the boat whicb we bad 
disabled, to relieve her, and we could sce her take out the men: 
we called again to the foremost boat, and offered a tmce, to 

Earley again, and to know what her busineas was with us ; but 
ad no answer, only she crowded cioae iinder our stern. Upoii 
tbia our gnnner, who was a very dexterona fellow, run ont bis 
two chase guns, and fired again at her, but the shot missing, the 
men in tbe boat shouted, waved tbeir caps^ and came on; but 
the gunncr, getting qnickly ready agaki^ fired among them a 
second time, one shot of whicb, though it missed the boat it^elf, 
yet feil in among the men, and we coiiid easily see bad dono a 
great deal of miachief among them; but we took no notice oftbat, 
wore the sbip again, and brought our quarter to bear upon them, 
and firing three guns more, we found the boat was almost split 
to pieces ; in particular, her rudder and a piece of her stem was 
shot quite away; so tbey banded her aaü immediately, and were 
in great disorder* Bnt to complete their misfortune, our gunner 
let fly two guns at them agaiu : wbere he hit them we could not 
teil, but we found the boat was sinking, and some of the men 
«Iready in the water : upon tbis I immediately manned ont our 
pinnace, which we had kept close by our side, with Orders to 
pick up some of the men, if they couldi and save them (Vom 
drowning, and immediately come on board the sbip with them^ 
becÄUse we saw tbe rest of the boats began to come up. Our 
men La the pinnace followed tbeir Orders» and took up three men, 
CC2 



'382 ADYENTURES OF 

one of wliom was just drowning, and it was a good while before 
we could recover him. As soon as they were on boaxd, we 
crowded all the sali we could make, and stood farther ont to 
sea ; and we found that when the other tbree boats came up to 
the first, they gave over their chase. 

Being thus delivered from a danger, which, though I knew not 
the reason of it, yet seemed to be much greater than I appre- 
hended, I resolved that we should change our course, and not 
let any one know whither we were going : so we stood out to 
sea eastward, quite out of the course of all European ships, 
whether they were bound to China or any where eise within the 
'commerce of the European nations. 

When we were at sea, we began to consnlt with the two sea- 
men, and inquire what the meaning of all this should be ; and 
the Dutchman let us into the secret at once, telling us that the 
fellow that sold us the ship, as we said, was no more than a thief 
that had run away with her. Then he told us how the capt^ 
whose name too he told us, though I do not remember it now, 
was treacherously murdered by the natives on the coast of Ma- 
lacca, with three of bis men ; and that he, this Dutchman, and 
four more, got into the woods, where they wandered about a 
great while, tili at length he, in particular, in a miraculous 
manner, made his escape, and swam off to a Dutcb ship, which, 
sailing near the shore in its way from China, had sent their boat 
on shore for fresh water ; that he durst not come to that part of 
the shore where the boat was, but made shift in the night to 
take the water farther off, and swimming a great while, at last 
the ship 's boat took him up. 

He then told us that he went to Batavia, where two of the 
seamen belonging to the ship arrived, having deserted the rest 
m their travels, and gave an account that the fellow who had 
nin away with the ship sold her at Bengal to a set of pirates, 
which were gone a cruising in her ; and that they had already 
taken an English ship and two Dutch ships very richly laden. 

This latter part was found to concem us directly, though we 
knew it to be false; yet as my partner said very justly, if we had 
fallen into their hands, and they had had such a prepossession 
against us beforehand, it had been in vain for us to have defended 
ourselves, or to hope for any good quarter at their hands ; and 
especially considering that our accusers had been our judges, and 
that we could have expected nothing from them but what rage 
would have dictated, and an ungoverned passion have executed; 
and therefore it was his opinion we should go directly back to 
Bengal, from whence we came, without putting in at any port 
whatever ; because there we could give a good account of our- 
selves, could prove where we were when the ship put in, of 
whom we bought her, and the like ; and which was more than 
all the rest, if we were put upon the necessity of bringingit 



ROBINSON CKUSOE, 



383 



before tbe proper judges, vre sliould fae sure to have 6ome justice, 
and not to be lianged first And judged aftenvardg. 

I was some time of m y partner 's opinton ; but aftcr a little 
more serious tbinking^, I told him 1 thougbt it was a rery great 
hazard for us to attempt rctxiTning to BeTipral^ for tbat we were 
ou the wron^ side of the Straits oF Malacca^ and lliat if Ihe 
alarm was given, we should be sure to be waylaid oii every side, 
m well by tbe Dutch of Bata\ ia as the Kugbsb clsewbcre ; tbat 
if we sbould betakenj as it werci running^ awaj, we shoiild cven 
condemn oiirselvcs, and there wmild want no more evidence to 
destroy us. I also asked the Erigjlisli sailor's opiuion^ wlio said 
be was of my mind, and tbat we sliould certainly be taken. 
Tbis danger a bttle startled ray partner, and all tbe sliip's Com- 
pany, ai:id we immediately resolved to go away to the ermst of 
Tonquin, and so on lo tbe coast oi" China ; and pursxnnfi tbe 
first design as to trade^ find some way or otber to dispose of 
the sbip, and come back in some of tbe vessek of tbe country, 
such as we coiüd get. Thia was approved of as tbe best meihod 
for oiir security ; and aecordingly we stcered away N.N,K., 
keeping above fifty leagucs oft' from tbe iisual conrse to ihe 
castward» This, however, piit us to some inconvenience ; for, 
first, the winds, when we came to tbat distance from the shore, 
seemed to be more steadiiy agalnst ils, blowing almost tradCi 
aa we call it, from tbe E* and £.N*E., so tbat we were a long 
while upon our voyage, and we were but ill pro'^aded witb idc- 
tuals for so long a run ; and^ whicli was still worae, there was 
some danger that those Engbsh and Dutcb ships, wbose boats 

Eursued us, vvhereof aome were bound that way, miglit be got in 
efore ua, and if not, some other sbip bound to China might 
have inforraation of us from tbem, and pursue us with tbe same 
vigour. 

I muat confess, I was now very uneasy, and thougbt myself, 
including tbe late escape from tbe longboats, to have been in 
the raoat dangeroua condition that ever 1 was through my past 
life ; for whatever ill cireumstances I had been in, I was nevcr 
pursued for a thief before ; nor had I ever done anything that 
raerited tbe mime of dishoncstor fraudulent, mnch less thievish; 
I had chiefly been my own enemy, or, as I may rigbtly say» I 
had been nobody's enemy but my own; but now I was embar- 
TASsed in tbe worst condition imaginahle; for Ihough I was 
perfectly innocent, I was in no condition to make that mnocence 
appear; and if I had been taken, it had been under a supposed 
guilt of the worst kmd. Tbis raade me very anxious to make 
an escape» thougb wbieh way to do it I knew not, or wbat port 
or place we could go to, My partner seeing me thus dejected, 
thougb he waa the most conccrned at firsti bcgan to encourage 
me, and doseribing to me the sevcral ports of tbat coast, told 
mc he would put in on the coast of Cochin China, or the bay 



384 ADYENTÜRES OF 

of Tonquin, iotending to go afterwards to Macao, a town once 
in possessioii of the Portuguese, and wbere still a great many 
European families resided; and particnlarly the missionary 
priests usually went thither, in order to their going forward to 
China. 

Hither then we resolved to go ; and accordin^lj, though after 
a tedioos and irregulär course, and very mu(3i straitened for 
provisions, we came within sight of the coast very early in the 
morning; and upon reflection on the past drcumstances we 
were in, and the danger if we had not escaped, we resolyed to 
put into a small river, which, however, had depth enough of 
water for us, and to see if we could, either overland or by the 
ship's pinnace, come to know what ships were in any port 
thereabouts. This happy Step was, indeed, our deliverance ; 
for, though we did not immediately see any European ships in 
the bay of Tonquin, yet the next morning there came into the 
bay two Dutch ships ; and a third, without any colours spread 
out, but which we believed to be a Dutchman, passed oy ac 
about two leagues' distance, steering for the coast of China ; and 
in the aftemoon went by two English ships steering the same 
course; and thus we thought we saw ourselves beset with 
enemies both one way and the other. The place we were in was 
wild and barbarous ; the people thieves, even by occupation or 
profession ; and though, it is true, we had not much to seek of 
them, and, except getting a few provisions, cared not how HtÜe 
we had to do with them, j^et it was with much difficulty that 
we kept ourselves from bemg insulted by them, several ways. 
We were in a small river of this country, within a few leagues 
of its utmost limits northward ; and by our boat we coasted 
north-east, to the point of land which opens the great bay of 
Tonquin ; and it was in this beating up along the shore that we 
discovered we were surrounded with enemies. The people we 
were among were the most barbarous of all the inhabitants of 
the coast, having no correspondence with any other nation, and 
dealing only in fish and oil, and such gross commodities ; and it 
may be particularly seen that they are the most barbarous of 
any of the inhabitants. Among other customs, they have this 
one, viz. that if any vessel has the misfortune to be shipwrecked 
upon their coast, they presently make the men all prisoners or 
slaves ; and it was not long before we found a piece of their 
kindness this way, on the occasion foUowing. 

1 have observed above, that our ship sprung a leak at sea, 
and that we could not find it out ; and it happened that, as I 
have Said, it was stopped unexpectedly in the happy minute 
of our being to be seized by the Dutch and English ships in the 
bay of Siam ; yet as we did not find the ship so perfectly tight 
and sound as we desired, we resolved, while we were at "Üds 
place, to lay her on- shore, and take out what heavy tbings wo 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



385 



liad on hoard, and clean her bottora ; and, if possible, to find 
out where tlie lealcs were. Accordiiigly, haiing ligbtened llie 
ship, and brouglit all cur guns and otber moveablea to one side, 
we tricd to bring ber down, tbat we migbt come at her bottom ^ 
but, on second thoiigbts, vre did not care to lay her on dry 
groundj neitber couJd -we find out a proper place fbr it. 

'Hie inliabitants, wiio bad never been acqiiainted with sucb a 
sigbt, came wandering: down tlie sbore to look at U3 * and seeüig 
the sbip lie down on one side in sucb a manner, and beeling in 
towards tbe sbore, and not seeing onr men, vbo were at work 
on lier bottom witb stages, and witb Ibeir boats, on tlie off-side, 
tbey presently concluded tbat tbe sliip was cast avvay, and lay so 
fast on tbe gronnd. On tbis Rupposition^ tbey all came about 
US in tno or tliree bours' time, witb ten or twelve large boats, 
Iiaving some of tbem eigbt, some ten men in a boat, intcnding, 
no doubt, to bave come on board and plimdered the sbip ; and 
if tbey bad fonnd us tbere, to bave carried us away for slaves to 
their king, or whatever tbey call him, for we knew nothiiig of 
their govemor. 

Wben tbey CAme Tip to tbe sbip and began to row round ber, 
they discovered us all hard at work on tbe outside of the sbip's 
bottom and side, wai^bing, and graving, and stopping, as evcry 
seafaring man knows !if>>v. Tlmy stood for a wbüe gazing at us, 
and wCi" who were a little siurprised, could not inmgine what 
their design was; but being willing to be aiu-ej we took tbia 
opportimity to get some of us into tbe sbip, and others to band 
down arms and ammunition to tbose tbat were at work to defend 
iherasehea witb, if therc should be occasiou; and it was no 
more than need : for in less tban a quarter of au bour's cobbuI- 
tation, tbey agreed, it seems, thiit tbe ship was rcally a wrcck ; 
and tbat we were all at work endeavouriiig to save bert or to 
save our Uvea by tbe help of our boats ; and wheu we handed 
our arms into tbe boats, they concluded, by tliat motion, that we 
were endeavonring to save some of our goods ; upon tbis they 
took it for granted we all belonged to them, and away they came 
directly upon our men, as if it bad beeu in a line of battlc, 

Our men, seeing so many of them, began to be frigbtened, for 
we lay but in an ill posture to (igbt, and eried out to us to know 
wbat tbey should do. I immediately called to the men tbat 
worked upon the stages, to sUp them down, and get up the side 
into tbe ship ; and bade those in tbe boat to row round, and 
come on board ; and those few of us who were on board worked 
with all tbe strength and bands we bad, to bring tbe sbin to 
rights ; but, howevcr, neither tbe men upon tbe stfiges nor those 
in the boats could do as tbey were ordered, before tbe Cocbin 
Chinese were upon them ; and two of their boats boarded our 
longboat, and began to lay bold on the men as their prisoners. 

The firat man tbey laid bold on was an English acaman, a 



386 ADTENTURES OF 

stout, strong fellow, who, having a musket in liis band, never 
offered to fire it, but laid it down in tlie boat, like a fool, as I 
thougbt ; bat be understood bis business better than i could 
teacb bim, for be erappled tbe pagan, and dragged him by main 
force out of tbeir Doat into ours, wbere taking bim by tbe ears, 
be beat bis bead so against tbe boat's gunnel, tbat tbe fedlow 
died in bis bands ; and, in tbe mean time, a Datcbman, yrho stood' 
next, took up tbe musket, and witb tbe butt-end of it so laid 
about bim, tbatbe knocked down five of tbem wbo attempted to 
enter tbe boat. But tbis was doing little towards resisting tbirtj 
or forty men, wbo fearles8,*because ignorant of tbeir danger, be- 
gan to tbrow tbemselves into tbe longboat, wbere vre nad bat 
nve men in all to defend it : but tbe following accident, wbich 
deserved our laugbter, gave our men a complete victory. 

Our carpenter being prepared to grave tbe outside of tbe sbip, 
as well as to pay tbe seams wbere be bad calked ber to stop tbe 
leaks, bad got two kettles just let down into tbe boat, one filled 
witb boiling pitcb, and tbe otber witb rosin, tallow, and oil, and 
sucb stufF as tbe sbipwrigbts use for tbat work ; and the man. 
tbat attended tbe carpenter bad a great iron ladle in bis band, 
witb wbicb be supplied tbe men tbat were at work witb tbe bot 
stuif : two of tbe enemy's men entered tbe boat just wbere tbis 
fellow stood, being in tbe fore-sbeets ; be immediately saluted 
tbem witb a ladleful of tbe stuif, boiling bot, wbicb so bunied and 
scalded tbem, being balf naked, tbat tbey roared out like bulls, 
and, enraged witb tbe fire, leaped botb into tbe sea. Tbe carpenter 
saw it, and cried out. Well done, Jack ! give tbem some more of 
it : and stepping forward bimself, takes one of tbe mops, and 
dipping it in tbe pitcb-pot, be and bis man tbrew it among tbem 
so pleutifuUy, tbat, in short, of all tbe men in tbe tbree boats 
tbere was not one tbat escaped being scalded and bumed wiÄ 
it, in a most frightful, pitiful manner, and made sucb a bowlbig 
and crying, tbat I never beard a worse noise : for it is worth 
observing, tbat thougb pain naturally makes all people cry 
out, yet every nation has a particular way of exclamation, and 
makes noises as düferent from one anotber as tbeir speecb. I 
cannot give tbe noise tbese creatures made a better name tban 
bowling, nor a name more proper to tbe tone of it ; for I never 
beard anytbing more like tbe noise of tbe wolves, whicb, as I 
bave said, I beard bowl in tbe forest on tbe frontiers of Lan- 
guedoc. 

I was never better pleased witb a victory in my life; not only 
as it was a perfect surprise to me, and tbat our danger was im- 
minent before, but, as we got tbis victory witbout any blood- 
sbed, except of tbat man tbe fellow killed witb bis naked bands, 
and wbicb I was very mucb concerned at, for I was sick of kill- 
ing sucb poor savage wretches, even thougb it was in my own 
dwence, knowing tbey came on errands wbicb tbey tbougbt just 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 387 

andknew üo better; and ttat thougli it may be a just tbing, b&- 
CJSMSG necessary ffof tberc h iio necessary wickedness in nature), 
yet I thought it was a sad lilb, when \ve must be always obllged 
to be killinfj oiir feil ow-creatu res to preserve ourselvea ; and, 
indccd, I tbink so stille and I would evcti now suffer a greatdeal, 
rather tban I would take avv ay tbe liie oven of tlie worst peraon 
iiyuring me ; atid I bebeve all considering people wbo know 
tbe value of Ufe woidd be of my opiniou, if tbey cütered seriously 
into tlie consideration of it. 

But to retiirn to nry atory : — All tbe wbile tbls was doing, my 
partiier and I, wbo managed tbe rest uT ihe men on board, bad 
with great dexterity brought tbe sbip almost to rights, and 
haviiig got tlie guns into tbcir places again, tbe gonner calied 
to me to bid out boat get out of the way, for be would let tly 
amorig tbem. I calied back again to bim, and bid bim not öfter 
to firc, for the carnenter woiüd do tbe work witbout him ; but 
bid him heat anotbcr pitch -kettle, ^vhicb our cook, wbo was on 
hoardt took care of : but the enemy was so territied with what 
they bad met witb in their first attackj tliat ihey would not 
come on again ; and some of them wbo were fartbest olT, seeing 
the sbij) Bwim, as it were, iiprigbt, began, as we suppose, to se» 
tbcjp mistake, and give over tbe enterprise, finding it wae not 
as tbey expected, Thus we gat clear of this merry figbt, and 
having got some rice, and some roots and bread, with ab out six- 
teen hogs, on board, two daya before, we resolved to stay here 
no longer, but go forward, whatevpr eame of it; for we niade no 
donbt but we should be surrounded the next day with roguea 
enough, perhaps niore than our pitch-kettle would dispose of 
for US. We therefore got all our thinga on board tbe saniü 
evening, and the next morning wcre ready to sail : in the mean 
time» hing at aiicbor at some distanee from the shore, we were 
not 8o mucb concerned, being now in a fighting posture, as well 
as in a sailin"; postnrCt if any cnemy bad presented. The next 
day, baving ÄnLsbed our w ork witbin board, and finding our ehip 
was perfectly bealed of all her leaks, we set sail. We w«juld 
bave gone into the bay of Tonquin, for we wantcd to inform 
ourselves of what was to be knowu coneerning tbe Duleb t^hips 
that bad been there; bnt we durrät not stand in tliere, because 
we had Been several ehips go in» as we supposed, but a little 
before : so we kept on N, E, towards the island of Formosa, as 
inuch afraid of being seen by a Dutch or English merchant ship, 
as a Dutcb or English mcrcbant Bbip in tbe Mediterranean ig of 
an Algerine man-of-war* 

WTjcn we were tbus got to sea, we kept on N. E. as if we 
would go to the Manillas or tbe Pbilippine islands, and this we 
did that we migbt not fall into tbe way of any of the European 
ships; and then we stecrwl north, tili wc came to the latitude 
of 22 deg. 30 min,, by wbieb means we madc the island Formosa 



388 ADVENTUKES OF 

directly, where we came to an anchor, in order to get water and 
fresh provisions, which the people there, who were very coui^ 
teous and civil in their manners, supplied us with willingly, and 
dealt yery fairly and punctually with us in all their agreements 
and bargains, which is what we did not find among other people, 
and may be owing to the remains of Christianity which was once 
planted here by a Dutch missionary of protestants, and is a 
testimony of what I have often observed, viz. that the Christian 
religion always civilizes the people and reforms their manners, 
where it is received, whether it works saying efGscts upon them 
or no. 

From thence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China 
at an equal distance, tili we knew we were beyond all the ports 
of China where our European ships usually come; beingresolved, 
if possible, not to fall into any of their hands, especitdly in this 
country ; where, as our circumstances were, we could not fidl of 
being entirely ruined. 

Being now come to the latitude of thirty degrees, we resolved 
to put into the first trading port we should come at ; and stand- 
ins in for the shore, a boat came off two leagues to us, with an 
old Portuguese püot on board, who knowing us to be an Euro- 
pean ship, came to offer his Service, which, indeed, we were glad 
of, and took him on board; upon which, without asking us 
whither we would go, he dismissed the boat he came in, and 
seut it back. 

I thought it was now so much in our choice to make the old 
man carry us whither we would, that 1 began to talk to him 
about carrying us to the gulf of Nanquin, which is the most 
northem part of the coast of China. The old man said he knew 
the gulf of Nanquin very well, but smiling, asked us what we 
wo"Uld do there ? I told him we would seil our cargo and pur- 
chase China wares, calicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks, &c., 
and so would return by the same course we came. He told us 
our best port had been to have put in at Macao, where we could 
not have failed of a market for our opium to our satisfaction, 
and might for our money have purchased all sorts of China 
goods as cheap as we could at Nanquin. 

Not being able to put the old man out of his talk, of which 
he was very opinionated or conceited, I told him we were gen- 
üemen as well as merchants, and that we had a mind to go and 
see the great city of Peking, and the famous court of the monarch 
of China. Why then, says the old man, you should go to Ningpo, 
where, by the river which runs into the sea there, you may go 
up within five leagues of the great caual. This canal is a navi- 
gable stream, which goes through the heart of that vast empire 
of China, crosses all the rivers, passes some considerable hills 
by the help of sluices and gates, and goes up to the city of 
Peking, being in length near two hundred and seventy leagues. 



RiftlHNSON CRUSOE. 



389 



Well, Said I, Senhor Portuguese, but tbat is not our busiiiesa 
now ; tlie great quesüon is, ifyou can carry us itp to tlie city of 
Nanquin, from ^yhence we cantravel tö Peking afterwarda '? He 
Said he could do so very inrell, nnd that thcre was a great Diitcb 
ship gone up that way just before. Tbia gave rae alittle shock, 
for a Dutch ship was now our lerror, and we bad mucli ratber 
have met tlie devü, at least if he bad not come in too frigbtftil 
a figure ; and we dependcd upon it that a Dnteh ship would be 
our destructioE, fbr we were m no condition to figbt them ; all 
the 8hip3 they trade witb into tbose parts being of great bürden, 
and of much greater force tban wc werc. 

The oid man ibuiid nie a little conlused, and under some con- 
cern, wben he nana cd a Du Leb ship ; and said to nie, Sir, ydu 
need be ander uo apprehensions of" tbe Dutch ; 1 suppoMC they 
are not now at war witb your natioo? — No, said I, tbat'a true ; 
but I know not what liberties men mny take wben tbey are oiit 
of the rcach of tbe laws of their own country. — Why, says he, 
you are no piratea ; what need you fear? Tbey will not meddle 
wiih peaceahle merchants, ßiire. 

If I had aiiy blood in my bodr that did not Hy up iato my 
face at that word, it w^as hindered by »ome stop in the vessela 
appointed by natiire to circiilate it, for it put me into tbe ^eatest 
disorder and coufiision imaginabie ; nor was it possible for nie 
to coTiceal it so, but the old man easUy perceived it. 

Sir, says be, I find you are in some disorder in your tbougbts 
at iny talk ; pray be pleased to go which way you think fit, aod, 
depend upon it, Ili do you all the sernce I can. — Wby, senbor, 
said I^ it ia true, I am a little nnsettled in my resolution at tbis 
time, wbitber to ^o in particular ; and I ara somctbing more so 
for wbat you said about pirates. 1 bope tbere are no pirates in 
tbese seaa ; we are but in an ill condition to meet witb tbem, 
for you aee we have but a small force, and are but very weakly 
manned. — O, sir, saya he, don't be conoerned, I do not know 
that tbere have been any pirates in these scas tbese fiPtcen years, 
except ooe, wbicb was seen, as 1 hear, in the bay of Siam, about 
a montb since ; but you may be assurcd she is gone to the soutb- 
ward ; nor was she a abip of any g;reat force, or fit for tbe work : 
abc waa not biült for a privateer, but was run away witli by a 
reprobate crew that was on board, after tbe eaptain and aome 
of bis men had been murdered hy the Malayana, at or near tbe 
Island of Sumatra. — Wbat ! said I, aeeming to know notbing of 
the matter, did tbey murder tbe eaptain f — No, said he, I don't 
understand that tbey murdered hiin ; but as they afterwards ran 
away witb tbe sbip, it ia j^enerally believed tbat they betrayed 
him into tbe hands of the Malayans, wbo did murder bim; and 

Serhaps thev proeured them to do it. — Why tben, said I, they 
eservc dcath as mucb as if tbey bad done it themselvea, — Nay, 
says the old man^ they do deserve itj and tbey will certainly 



300 ADVENTURES OF 

have it, if they ligbt upon any English or Dutcb sliip ; for they 
have all agreed together, that if they meet that rogae they'll 
give him no quarter. — But, said I to him, you say the pirate is 
gone out of these seas; how can they meet wiüi him then? — 
Why, that's true, says he, they do say so ; but he was, as I teil 
you, in the bay of Slam, in the river Cambodia ; and was dis- 
covered there by some Dutchmen who belonged to the ship, and 
who were left on shore when they ran away with her; and some 
English and Dutch traders being in the river, they were within 
a Üttle of taking him : nay, said he, if the foremost boats had 
been well seconded by the rest, they had certainly taken hünf 
but he, find'mg only two boats within reach of him, tacked about, 
and fired at those two, and disabled them before the others came 
up, and then standing off to sea, the others were uot able to 
follow, and so he got away ; but they have all so exact a de- 
scription of the ship, that they will be sure to know her ; and 
wherever they find her they have vowed to give no quarter 
either to the captain or seamcn, but to hang them all up at the 
yard-arm. — What ! said I, will they execute them right or wrong; 
hang them first, and judge them afterwards ? — O sir, says the old 
pilot, there is no need to make a formal business of it with such 
rogues as those ; let them tie them back to back, and set them 
a diving, *tis no more tnan they deserve. 

I knew I had my old man fast on board, and that he could da 
no härm, so that I tumed short upon him : "Well now, senhor, 
said I, this is the very reason why I would have you carry us 
up to Nanquin, and not put back to Macao, or to any other part 
of the country where the English or Dutch ships come ; for be 
it known to you, senhor, those captains of the English and 
Dutch ships are a parcel of rash, proud, insolent fellows, that 
neither know what belongs to justice, nor how to behave thera- 
selves as the laws of God and natura direct ; but being proud of 
their offices, and not understanding their power, they would act 
the murderers to punish robbers ; would take upon them to 
insult men falsely accused, and determine them guilty without 
due inquiry : and perhaps I may live to bring some of them to 
account for it, when they may be taught how justice is to be 
executed ; and that no man ought to be treated as a crinainal tili 
some evidence may be had of the crime, and that he is the man. 

"With this I told him that this was the very ship they attacked, 
and gave him a füll account of the skirmish we had with their 
boats, and how foolishly and cowardly they behaved. I told 
him all the story of our buying the ship, and how the Dutchman 
served us. I told him the reasoris 1 had to believe the story 
of killing the master by the Malayans was true, as also the 
ruuning away with the ship ; but itwas all a fiction of their own 
to suggest that the men had tumed pirates, and they ought to 
have been sure it was so before they had. ventured to attack us 



ROßtNSOIi CRUSOE, 

hj Burprise, and oblige tia to resist tliem ; addin^, that thej ttouU 
have thc blood uf tbose men, wtom wc killed there in just de- 
fence, to ans wer for, 

The old man was amazed at this relation, iind told us we were 
very mucli in the rig:lit to ^o away to the nortb ; und that if he 
might advise us, it sbould be to seil tbe ehip in China, wbicb we 
niight very well di% and buy or btiild aiiother in the country ; 
and, Said he, tboug^li you will not get so good a sbip, yet youmay 
get oiie able enougb to carry yoii aod all yonr goods back agaia 
to Bengal, or any wbere t^lse. I told him 1 would take bis 
advice when I came to any port where I could imd a aliip for 
my tum, or gjet any customcr to buy tbia. He repbed, I should 
meet witb customera enougb for the ship at Nancjuio, and that 
a Chinese junk v^ould serve me very well to go back again ; and 
that he would procnre me people both to bny one and seil the 
other. Well but, aenbor, said I, as you say they know the sbip 
so weüj I may, perbaps, ir 1 Ibllow your measurea, he instru- 
mental to bring some honest innocent men into a terrible broü, 
and perhaps to be murdered in cold blood ; for wherever they 
find tbe sbip, they will prove the giiiit npon the men, by proviag 
tbm was the ship, and hü innocent men may probably be over- 
powered and murdered, -^Wby, says the old man, HI find out a 
way to preveut that also ; for as I know all those eommandera you 
speak of very well, and shall sce tbera all as they pass by, I will 
be Sure to set thera to rigfbts in the thiiig, and let tbem know 
that they had been so mnch in tbe wrong^ that thongh tbe 
people who were on board at iirst might run away witb tbe 
fihip, yet it was not true tbat they liad turned piratea ; and tbat, 
in particnlar, the^e were not the men tbat finst went oflf witb the 
sbip, but innocently bougbt her for tbeir trade ; and I am per- 
suaded they will so far beiieve me, as at least to act tnore cau- 
tiously for the time to come. 

Wh de Ihese tbings were passing between us, by way of dis* 
course» we went forward directly for Nanquin, and in about 
thirteen days* sail came to an ant^hor at tbe south-west poiat 
of the great galf of Nanquin ; w here, by the way, I came by 
aceident to understand that two Duteb ships were gone tbe lengtn 
before me, and tbat I should certainly fall into tbeir hands, 
I consulted my partner iigain in ihis exigency, and he was as 
mucli at a loss as I was, and would very gladly have been safe 
on shore almost any where : however, I was not in such per- 
plexity neither, but 1 asked tbe old pilot if tbcre was no creek 
or harbour whicb 1 might put into and pursuc ray buainesa witb 
the Chinese privately, and be in no danger of tbe eneiny. Ho 
told me, Lf 1 would sad to tbe southward about forty-two 
leagues, there was a httle port cnllcd Quinehang, where the 
fathers of the miöi*ion usnally landed from Macao, on tbeir pro- 
gress t*j teach the ChristJau reügion to the Chinese, and where 



392 ADYENTUBES OP 

no European ships ever put in ; and if I thought to pnt in there, 
I might consider what Airther course to take when I was on 
sliore. He confessed, he Said, it was not a place for merchants, 
except that at some certain times they had a kind of a £ur there, 
when the merchants from Japan came over thither to buy the 
Chinese merchandises. 

We all agreed to go back to this place ; the name of ihe port, as 
he called it, 1 may perhaps spell wrong, fbr I do not particularly 
remember it, having lost this, together with the names of manj 
other places set down in a little pocket-book, which was spoiled 
bv the water by an accident ; but this I remember, that the 
Chinese or Japanese merchants we corresponded with called it 
by a dififerent name from that which our Portugaese pilot gave 
it, and pronounced it as above, Quinchang 

As we were unanimous in our resolution to go to this place, 
we weighed the next day, having only gone twice on shore 
where we were to get fresh water ; on both which occasions the 
people of the country were very civil to us, and brought as abnnd« 
ance of things to seil to us, 1 mean of provisions, plants, roots, 
tea, rice, and some fowls, but nothing without money. 

We came to the other port (the wind being contrary) not tiU 
five days, but it was very much to our satisfaction ; and I was 
joyful, and I may say thankful, when I set my foot on shore, 
resolving, and my partner too, that if it was possible to dispose 
of ourselves and effects any other way, though not every way to our 
satisfaction, we would never set one foot on board that unhappy 
vessel more ; and, indeed, I must acknowledge, that of all the dr- 
cumstances of life that ever 1 had any experience of, nothing 
makes mankind so completely miserable as that of being in con- 
stant fear. Well does the Scripture say, " The fear of man brings 
a snare;" it is a life of death, and the mind is so entirely op* 
pressed by it, that it is capable of no relief. 

Nor did it fall of its usual Operations upon the fancy, by 
heightening every danger, representing the English and Dutch 
captains to be men incapable of hearing reason, or of distin- 
guishing between honest men and rogues ; or between a story 
calculated for our own turn, made out of nothing, on purpose 
to deceive, and a true genuine account of our whole voyage, pro- 
gress, and design ; for we might many ways have convinced any 
reasonable creature that we were not pirates ; the goods we had 
on board, the course we steered, our frankly showing ourselves, 
and entering into such and such ports ; and even our very man- 
ner, the force we had, the number of men, the few arms, little 
ammunition, short provisions ; all these would have served to 
convince any men that we were no pirates. The opium and 
other goods we had on board would make it appear the ship 
had been at Bengal. The Dutchmen, who, it was said, had the 
names of all the men that were in the ship, might easilj see that 



ftOBINSON CRUSOE* 



393 



we were a mixture of Englmh, Portucruese, aod iBdians, and but 
two Dutcbmcii oo board» These, and many other particulur 
eircumstanceaj might have made it enden t to the understandmpf 
of aay Commander^ wbose hands we migbt fall into, that wo 
were no pirates. But fear, that blind, useless pAssion, worked 
ÄD other way^ and threw us into the vapours ; it bewiJdered our 
understandingä, and »et tbe iraagmatioD at work to form a tbou- 
sand terrible tbings that perhaps migbt never happen. We first 
supposed, fts indeed every body eise had related to us, that the 
acamen oii board tbe Euglish and Duteh sbips, bat especially 
the Dutch, were so enraged at the nanie of a piratCi and espe- 
cially at ooT beuting olT their boats und escapino^, that they 
would not give themsclves leave to inqiiirc woetlier we were 
pirates or no ; bnt woiild cxccute us oiT-hand» as we call it, witb- 
out gi\iog 118 any room for a defence. We reflected that there 
really was so mucb apparent evidence before them, that tbey 
would scarce ioqiüre afterany niore ; as, first, that the ship was 
certainly tbe same, and that aome of the seamen araong; tbem 
knexv her, and bad heen an board her ; and, secondly, that when 
we had intel%encc at tbe rivpr of Cambodia tbat they vTere 
Coming down to examine ns, we fougbt their boats and flcd ; so 
tbat we made no doubt bot they were as fully satisfied of onr 
bcing pirates, aa we were satisfied of the contrary ; and, as I 
often Said, I know not but I sbould have becn apt to bave taken 
thoae circumstances for evidence, if the tables were turnedj and 
niy case was theirs ; and have made no scruplc of ciitting all tbe 
crew to pieces, without believiiij,', or perhaps considering, what 
they might have to otfer in their defence. 

Bot let tbat be bow it will, the se were onr apprebensions ; 
and both my partner and I scarce slept a night without dream- 
ing of h altera and yard-arms, tbat is to say, gibhets , of fighting, 
and being taken ; of killing, and being killed : and one night 
I was in such a fury in ray dream, fiuicying the Dntchmen bad 
boarded us, and I was knoekiog one of tbeir seamen dov^n, that 
I Struck ray doubl ed fist against the side of tbe cabin I lay in, 
with such a force, as wounded my hand grievously, broke ray 
knuckles, and cut and bruised the desh, so tbat it awaked me 
out of my sleep. 

Anotber apprehension I had "vias, the cruel u&age we might 
meet with from them if we feil into theur band« : then the story 
of Amboyna came into my head, and ho w the Dutch might per- 
haps torture us, as they did our countTymcn there, and make 
some of our men, by extreniily of torture, confess thosc crimcs 
liey never were guilty of, or own themselves and all of us to be 
* ates, and so they would put us to deatb with a formal appcar- 
i of justice ; and that they might he tempied to do this for 
the gam of our ship and cargo, which was worth fotir or fiv# 
thoasaiul poundsj put all together» 




394 ADVENTURES OF 

These things tormented me and my partner too, night and dav ; 
nor did we consider that the captains of ships have no anthorily 
to act thus ; and if we had surrendered prisoners to them, thev 
could not answer the destroying us, or torturing us, bat wonld 
be accountable for it when they came to their own coiintry ; this, 
I say, gave me no satisfaction ; for if they were to act thus with 
US, what advantage would it be to us that they sbould be called 
to an account for it? er if we were first to be murdered, what 
satisfaction would it be to us to have them punisbed when they 
came home ? 

I cannot refrain taking notice here what reflections I now had 
upon the vast variety of my particular circumstances ; howhard 
I thought it was, that I, who had spent forty years in a life of 
continual difficulties, and was at last come, as it were, to the 
port or haven which all men drive at, viz. to have rast and plenty, 
should be a volunteer in new sorrows by my own unhappy 
choiee ; and that I, who had escaped so many dangers in my 
youth, should now come to be hanged in my old age, and in so 
remote a place, for a crime which I was not in the least indined 
to, much less guilty of. 

After these thoughts, something of religion would come in ; 
and I would be considering that this seemed to me to be a dis- 
Position of immediate Providence, and I ought to look upon it 
and submit to it as such ; that although I was innocent as to 
men, I was far from being innocent as to my Maker ; and I ought 
to look in and examine what other crimes in my life were most 
obvious to nie, and for which Providence might justly iuflict this 
punishment as a retribution ; and that I ought to submit to 
this, just as I would to a shipwreck, if it had pleased God to 
have brought such a disaster upon me. 

In its turn, natural courage would sometimes take its place, 
and then I would be talking myself up to vigorous resolutions ; 
that I would not be taken to be barbarously used by a parcel 
of merciless wretches in cold blood ; that it were much bettet 
to have fallen into the hands of the savages, though I was sure 
they would feast upon me when they had taken me, than those 
who would perhaps glut their rage upon me by inbumaH tor- 
tures and barbarities ; that in the case of the savages I always 
resolved to die fighting to the last gasp, and why should I not 
do so now, seeing it was much more dreadful, to me at least, to 
think of falling into these men's hands, than ever it was to 
think of being eaten by men ? for the savages give them their 
due, would not eat a man tili he was killed and dead, but that 
these men had many arts beyond the cruelty of death. When- 
ever these thoughts prevailed, I was sure to put myself into a 
kind of fever with the agitation of a supposed fight ; my blood 
would boil, and my eyes sparkle, as if I was engaged, and I 
always resolved to take no quarter at their hands ; but, even 



aOBIJJSON CRUSOE. 395 

ftt kst, if I could reBiBt tio loucrerj I xvould blow up tlie fibip 
and all that was in ber, and lea^e tbem but little booty to 
boast of. 

Tbc greater weigbt the anxieties and perplexities of tbese 
tbings were to our tlioughts wbile we were at sea, tbe greater 
was our satisfaction wben we saw ourselves on sbore; and my 
partner told me be {Ireanied tbat be bad a very beavy load upon 
nia back, wbicb be was to carry up a Iiill, and found tbat be was 
not able to stand lonfjer iindcr it; bnt tbat tbe Portugiiese pilot 
came and took it t>iF bis back, and tbe bill disappeared, tbe 
ground before bim appearing all sraootb and piain : and trnly it 
was soj tbey were all like nien wlio bad a load taken off tbeir 
backs. Für my part, I bnd a weigbt taken oiX froin mj beart 
that it was not able anj longcr to bear; and, as I said above, we 
resolved to go no more to sea in that ship. Wben we came on 
shore, the old pilotj wbo was now our friend, got iis a lod^ng 
and a warebouse for our gooda, wliieli, by tbe way, was much 
the sanier it uns a little boiisej or but, witb a larger bouse ad- 
joining to it, all built witb caucs, and palisadoed round witb large 
caues, to keep out pilfering tbieves» of wbicb, it seems, tbere were 
not a ffiw in tbat conutry : however, tbe magistrates allowed us 
a little gnard, and we bad a soldier witb a kiiid of halberd, or 
half-pikc, wbo atood nentinel at our door; to wbom we allowed 
a pißt of rice, and a little piece of raoney, nbout tbe valne of threc- 
pencc, per day, so tbat our ^oods were kcpt vcry safe. 

The fair, or mart, usuaily kept in tbis place, bad becn over 
ßome time; bowever, we found tbat tbere were tbree or four 
junks in tbe rirer, and two Japaners, I mean abipa from Japan, 
with goods wbich they bad bougbt in China, and were not goae 
away, baving some Japanese mercbanta on sbore. 

Tbe first tbing our old Portu^uesc pilot did for us was, to get 
US acquaintcd witb tbree missionary Romish priests wbo were 
in town, and wbo bad becn tbere aome time Converting the people 
to Christianity 5 but we tbougbt tbey made but poor work of it, 
and made tbem but sorry Cbristians wben they bad done : bow- 
ever, tbat was none of our busiuess, One of tbese was a Freticb- 
man, wbom tbey called P'atber Simon ; anotber was a Portugueae, 
and the tbird, aGenoese; but Fatber Simon was courteous, casy 
in bis manner, and very agreeable Company ; tbe otber two were 
more reserved, aeemed rigid and austere, and applied seriously to 
tbe work tbey cmne ab out, viz. to talk w itb, and insinuate tbem- 
«elves among, tbe inhabitants, wherever tbey bad opportunity. 
We often ate and drank with tbose men ; and tbougb, I niust 
coufess, the converaion, as tbey call it, of tbe Chinese to Christi- 
anity is so far from ibc tnxe conversion required tu bring beatben , 
people to tbe faitb of Cbrist, tbat it seems to amount to little 
rnore tban letting tbem know tbe name of Christ, and say some 
prayers to tbe Virgm Mary and her Sonj in a tongue whicb they 

D l> 



L 



306 ADVENTURES OF 

understand not, and to cross themselves, and tbe like ; yet it 
most be coufessed that the religionists, whom we call missioiüaries, 
have a firm belief that tbese people will be saved, and that they 
are the instrumenta of it; and, on this account, they undergo 
not only the fatigue of the yoyi^e, and the hazards of Hving in 
such places, but oftentimes death itself, with the most violent 
tortures, for the sake of this work. 

But to retum to my story. This French priest, Father Simon, 
was appointed, it seems, by order of the chief of thejnission, to 
go up to Peking, the royal seat of the Chinese emperor, and 
waited only for another priest, who was ordered to come to him 
irom Macao, to go along with him ; and we scarce ever met 
together but he was inviting me to go that joumey ; telling me 
how he would show me all the glorious things of that miffhty 
empire, and, among the rest, the greatest city in the worlS: a 
city, Said he, that your London and our Paris put together, 
cannot be equal to. This was the city of Peking, which, I con- 
fess, is very great, and infinitely füll of people; but as I looked 
on those things with different eyes from other men, so I shall 
give my opinion of them in a few words, when I come in course 
of my travels to speak more particularly of them. 

But, first, I come to my friar or missionary. Dining with him 
one day, and being veiy merry together, I showed some httle 
inclination to go with him ; and he pressed me and my partner 
very hard, and with a great many persuasions, to consent. Why, 
Father Simon, says my partner, should you desire our Company 
so much? you know we are heretics, and you do not love us, 
nor cannot keep us Company with any pleasure. — O, says he, 
you may perhaps be good catholics in time ; my business here is 
to convert heathens, and who knows but I may convert you too? 
— Very well, Father, said I, so you will preach to us all the way ? 
— I will not be troublesome to you, says he ; our religion does 
not divest us of good manners : besides, we are here like countrv- 
men ; and so we are, compared to the place we are in ; and if you 
are Huguenots, and I a Catholic, we may all be Christians at 
last ; at least, we are all gentlemen, and we may converse so, 
without being uneasy to one another. I liked this part of his 
discourse very well, and it began to put me in mind of my priest 
that I had left in the Brazils ; but this Father Simon did not come 
up to his character by a great deal: for though Father Simon had 
no appearance of a criminal levity in him neither, yet he had 
not that fund of Christian zeal, strict piety, and sincere afifection 
to religion, that my other good ecclesiastic had. 

But to leave him a little, though he never left us, nor soliciting 

US to go with him ; we had something eise before us at first, for 

' we had all this while our ship and our merChandise to dispose 

of, and we began to be very doubtful what we should do, for we 

were now in a place of very little business ; and once I was about 



KOBINSON CRUBOE. 



397 



to venture to sali for the Tiver of Kilam, and the citv of Nan* 
quin : btit Pi-ovideQce seemed now more visibly, as I tbuugbt, 
tban ever, to concern itself in oiir älTairs ; am! I was eacouraged, 
from thi8 very timej to thmk I should one way or other get out 
of tbia entangled circumstance, and be brought bome to my own 
country again^ tkongb I bad not tbe least view of the manner, 
Providence, I say, begau liere to clear up our way a Uttle : and 
the first tbiog that offered was, tbat oue old Portuguese pilot 
brought a Japan merchnnt to as, wlio luquired what goods we 
had ; and, in tbe first place, be bought all our opium, and gave 
TIS a very good price Ibr it, paylng us in gold by weigbt, aome in 
Bmall pieces of their own coin, and sorae in smaM wedges, of 
about ten or eleven onnces eaeb. White we wcre dealin g wilb bim 
for our npiora, it came into my liead tkat be miglit perbaps deal 
for tbe ship too,aiid I ordt^red tbe interiireter to propoae it to hini : 
he shrngged up bis sboulders at it, when it was first proposed to 
him; but in a few days after be came to me, with one of tbe 
missionary priests for bis Interpreter, and told me be bad a pro- 
posal to make to me, wliicK wa^* tbis : — be bad bougbt a great 
quantity of goods of u$, wbeo be bad tio tbougbts of proposals 
inade to bim of buying the ybip ; niid tbati tberefore, he liad not 
inoney enoogli to pay for tbe sbip : but if I wonld let the same 
men wbo were in tbe sbip navigate her, be would bire tbe sbip 
to go to Japan ; and would send tbem from thence to tbe Pliilip- 
pinc islanas with another loading, whicb be ^ould pay tbe 
freight of before they went from Japan, and tbat at tbeir return 
lie would buy tbe ahip. I began to ÜBteu to Ms proposal, and 
80 eagcr did my head still ron upon rambling, tbat I conld not 
but begin to entcrtain n notion of going myself with hira^ and so 
to sail from tbe Philippine islanas away to tbe South Seas : 
Äccorditigly I asked the Japanese raercbant if be would not bire 
ua to tbe Pbilippine Islands, aiid disdiarge us tbere. He said, 
No, he could not do that^ for tben be could not bave the return 
of liis cargo ; but he would discharge us iu Japan, at the sbip 's 
return. Well, still I was for taking him at tbat proposal, and 
going myself ; but my partner, wiser than myself, persuaded me 
from it, representiug the daugers, as well of the seas as of tbe 
Japanese, who are a false, cruel, and treaebcrous people ; Uke- 
wiflB tbose of the Spauiards at the Pbüippioes, more false, cruel, 
and treaebcrous than they. 

But to bring this long turn of our affairs to a condusion : the 
first thing we bad to do was, to consult with the cnptain of the 
ehip, and with bis men, and knovv if they were wiliing to go to 
Japan : and wlüle I was doing this, tbe young man whom my 
nephew had left; with rae as my companion for my travels came 
to me, and told me that he tbougbt that voyjige promised very 
fair, aitd that there was a great prospect of atlvantage, and be 
iratiüd be very glad if I undertook it ; but that if I would not, 
D D 2 



398 ADVENTURES OP 

and would give him leave, he woiild go as a merchant, or hovr l 
pleased to order him ; that if ever he came to England, and I 
was there and alive, he would render me a faithful account of bis 
success, which should be as much mine as I pleased. I was 
really loth to part with him ; but considering the prospect of 
advantage, which was really considerable, and that he was a 
young fellow as likely to do well in it as any I knew, I indined 
to let him go ; but I told him I would consult my partner, and 
give him an answer the next day. My partner and I discoursed 
about it, and my partner made a most generous oflTer : You know 
it has been an unlucky ship, said he, and we both resolve not to 
go to sea in it again : if your Steward (so he called my man) wül 
venture the voyage, I wül leave my share of the vessel to him, 
and let him make the best of it ; and if we live to meet in England, 
and he meets with success abroad, he shall account for one half 
of the profits of the ship 's freight to us ; the other shall be his own. 

If my partner, who was no way concemed with my young 
mau, made him such an offer, I could do no less than offer him 
the same : and all the ship 's Company being willing to go with 
him, we made over half the ship to him in property, and took 
a writing from him, obliging him to account for the other ; and 
away he went to Japan. The Japan merchant proved a vcry 
punctual, honest man to him ; protected him at Japan, and got 
him a licence to come on shore, which the Europeans in general 
have not lately obtained; paid him his freight very punctually; 
sent him to the Philippines, loaded with Japan and China wares, 
and a supercargo of their own, who, trafficking with the Spa- 
niards, brought back European goods again, and a great quantity 
of cloves and other spices ; and there he was not only paid his 
freight very well, and at a very good price, but not being willing 
to seil the ship then, the merchant furnished him goods on his 
own account; and with sorae money, and some spices of his own 
which he brought with him, he went back to the Manillas to the 
Spaniards, where he sold his cargo very well. Here, having got 
a good acquaintance at Manilla, he got his ship made a free 
ship ; and the govemor of Manilla hired him to go to Acapulco 
in America, on the coast of Mexico, and gave him a licence to 
land there, and to travel to Mexico, and to pass in any Spanish 
ship to Europe with all his men. He made the voyage to Aca- 
pulco very happily, and there he sold his ship ; and having there 
also obtained allowance to travel by land to Porto BeUo, he 
found means, somehow or other, to get to Jamaica, with all his 
treasure ; and about eight years after came to England exceedin«" 
rieh, of which I shall take notice in its place : in the mean time, 
I retum to our particular affairs. 

Being now to part with the ship and ship's Company, it came 
before us, of course, to consider what recompense we should 
give to the two men that gave us such timely notice of the 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

desi^ against us in the nver Camhodirt. Tlie trutli was, tliey liad 
done US a very conaiderable ser^ice« and deiserved well ut our 
hands ; thougb, by the way» tbey were a couple of rogues toü •. 
for as tbey belicved the storv of aar being piratesj and that we 
Bad really riin away with the sliip» tbey came down to ua not 
only to l>etray tlie design tiiat was formed against ns, biit to go 
to sea witli us as pirates ; and one oftliem confessed afterwards 
that notliing eise bnt tbe liopes offfoing a-rogiung brongbt him 
to do it: however, the senice they did uh was not tlie leas ; and 
tberefore, as 1 bad promised to be grateful to them, l firat or- 
dered tbe money to be paid tbem whicb they Said was due to 
thera on board tbeir respective sbips ; over and above tbat, I 
gave eacb of them a small sum of money iii gold, whicb con- 
tented them very well ; then 1 raade the Englishman gunner in 
the sbip, tbe giinner being now made öecond mate and purserj 
the Üutchman I made boatswam ; so tbey w^ere botb yery well 
pleasQd, and proved very «erviceable, being both able seamen, 
and very stout fellows. 

We were now on sbore in China : if I thought myself banished 
and remote Iroraray own comitry at Bengale wbere I had many 
ways to get hoino Ibr my money ^ what could I think of myseli' 
now, when I was got about a ihousaiid leagues farther oii' from 
Lome, and perfectly destiUite of all manner ofprospect of rctnrn? 
Ali we had for it was this, that in abont four months* time Üiere 
was to be another fair at tbe place wbere we were, and then we 
might be able to purcbase all sorts of tbe manufactures of the 
country» and witbal niigbt possihly find some Chinese jiniks or 
vessels from Tonquin^ that woiild be to be sold, aiid would carry 
US and our gooda whither we pleased. Tbis I liked very well, 
and resolved to wait ; besides, as our particnlar persons were 
not obnoxious, so if any English or Dutch ships came tbitber, 
perhaps we might bsvc an opportunity to load our goods, and 
get passage to öome other place in India, nearer home. Upon 
these bopes we resolved to continiie here ; but, to divert out- 
selveBp we took two or three jonmeys into the couutry. First, 
we went ten days' journey, to the city of NaoquLn, a city well 
worth seeing^ indeed ; they say it lias a million of people in it t 
it is regularly built, the streets all exactly straigbt, and crosst 
one another in direct lines, which gives the figure of it great ad- 
vantage. But when I come to comparc the miserable people of 
these countries with ours, their fabrics, their manuer of iiving, 
their govemment^ their religion, their wealtb, and their glory, 
as «ome call it, 1 must confess that I scarcely think it wortn my 
while to mention them here. It is very observable» that we 
wonder at the grandeur, the riches, the pomp, the ceremonies» 
the govemment, the manufactures, the commerce, and condact 
ot* these people ; not that it js to be wondercd (lU or, indeed, in 
the leaat to be rcgarded, but because having a true notion of 



I 



400 ADVENTÜRES OP 

|he barbarity of tbose countries, the nideness and the ignonnoe 
that prevails there, we do not expect to find any such thing so 
far off. Otherwise, what are tbeir buildings to the palaces and 
royal buildings of Europe ? What their trade to the universal 
commerce of England, Holland, France, and Spain? What are 
their dties to ours, for wealth, strength, gaiety of appai^, ridi 
fumiture, and infinite variety ? What are their ports, supplied 
with a few junks and barks, to our navigation, our menmant 
fleets, our large and powerful navies ? Our city of London has 
more trade than half their mighty empire : one English, Dotch, 
or French man-of-war of eighty guns, would be able to fight 
almost all the shipping belonging to China : but the greatness 
of their wealth, theur trade, the power of their govemment, and 
the strength of their armies, may be a little surprising to us ; 
because, as I have said, considering them as a barbarous nation 
of pagans, little better than savages, we did not expect such 
things among them. And this, indeed, is the advantage with 
which all their greatness and power is represented to us ; other- 
wise, it is in itself nothing at all ; for what I have said of their 
ships ma^ be said of their armies and troops : all the forces of 
their empire, though they were to bring two millions of men into 
the field together, would be able to do nothing but ruin tiie 
country, and starve themselves, if they were to besiege a strong 
town in Flanders, or to fight a disciplmed army. One good line 
of German cuirassiers, or of French cavalry, might withstand all 
the horse of China : a million of their foot could not stand before 
one embattled body of our infautry, posted so as not to be sur- 
rounded, though they were not to be one to twenty in number : 
nay, I do not boast if I say that thirty thousand German er 
English foot, and ten thousand horse, well raanaged, could defeat 
all the forces of China. And so of our fortified towns, and of the 
art of our engineers in assaulting and defending towns : there is 
not a fortified town in China could hold out one month against 
the batteries and attacks of an European army ; and, at the same 
time, all the armies of China could never take such a town as 
Dunkirk, provided it was not starved — no, not in a ten years' 
siege. They have fire-arms, it is true, but they are awkward 
and uncertain in their going off; and their powder has but little 
strength. Their armies are badly disciplined, and want skill to 
attack, or temper to retreat; and, therefore, I must confess, 
it seemed stränge to me, when 1 came home, and heard our 
people say such fine things of the power, glory, magnificence, and 
trade of the Chinese; because, as far as I saw, they appearedto 
be a contemptible herd or crowd of ignorant sordid slaves, sub- 
jected to a govemment qualified only to rule such a people : and 
. were not its distance inconceivably great from Muscovy, and the 
Muscovite empire in a manner as rüde, impotent, and ill «'o- 
vemed as they, the Czar of Muscovy might with ease drive them 



KOBINSON CRUSOE* 



40! 



all out of their conntry, and conquer them in one campaipi : nnd 
bad the Czar (who is now a gjrowmpj priDce) fallen thia way, 
inst&ad of attackinpr tlie warlike Swedes, and equally improved 
himself in the art cjf war, as tbey say he has done ; and if none 
of the povrers of Europc had envied or internipted him, be might 
by this time have been eraperor of China, inslead of bcing beaten 
by the kio^ of Sweden at Narva, when tbe lattcr was not one to 
ßix in niimber. Ah their strenjith and their ^randeur, so their 
Bavitration, commerce, and husbandry are Tery imperfecta com- 
pared to the saMe thing^g in Enrope: also in tbeir knowledg^e, 
their learning, ojid in tlieir skill in the seieneea, they are either 
Terj awkvTard of defcctive, thotifrb they hai'e srlobes and spberes, 
and a smatteritt^ of tbe mAtbcmatlcsT ^nd think they know moro 
thwi all the World besides : but they know Httle oftbe motions 
of tbe heavenly hodies ; ftnd so grosaly and abaiirdly ignunint 
ATC tbeir common pcople, that when the snn la eclipSed, they 
tbiiik a gjeat dras^on has aftsauUed it, nhd is g-oing^ to nui away 
with it ; and they fall a clattering with aÜ the dnims and kettle» 
in tbe country, to fright the monster away, just as we do to Mve 
a Bwarm of beea. 

As this is the only exciirsion of tbe kind wbich I bave made 
in all the aecounts I hav^e gfiven of my travelsj I sball make no 
niore such : it is none of my bnsiness, nor any partof my design ; 
but to pve an acconnt of my owti ad venture» through a life of ininü- 
table wanderinirs, and a long vanety of chanj^es, which, perliaps, 
few that come aftcr me will bave heard the like of : I shall tbere- 
fure say very Utile of all the inigbty place^^ desert conntncs^ and 
numerous people J liave yet to pass tbroue^b, more tban rclates 
to my owTi Story, and wbich my concern among them will makü 
ueccssary. 



4 




JOÜWNEY TO PFXJNG. — ROBT^TON JOTNS A CARAVAN mOCEEDING 
TO M03C0W.— ^RENCONTRES WITH TUE TAKT ARS, 

I WA9 iiow» as near as I can compnte, in the heart of Chinas about 
tliirty clegrrees north of tlie liiie, for we were Tetamed from Nan- 
qnin : I Imd, indeedj a mind to see tlie city of PekinGT, whicb l liad 
beard so miich of, and Faiher Simon iTtiportiined me daily to do 
it. At length hls time of poin^ away bcinj^ aet, and the olher 
nüssionary wIjo wah to go with iiim bcing nTrivöd fVoni Macao, 
it was Decessary tlmt we should resolve either to go or not; so 
I referred it >vbolly to my partner, and left it wholly to bis choice* 
who at len^h resolved it in the affirmative ; and we prepared for 
nur joiirney. We sei out with very s^ood advantage, as to finding 
the way, for we ß^ot leave to travel in the retinue of o«e of theif 
Mandarins, a kiiid of viceroy or principal mafl:istrates in tlie 
provjnt'e wliere tbey reside, and who take great State lipon them, 
travellino: witli great atteiidance» aud with «jent homa^e from the 
p<*fjplp, who are sometimes greatly impoverished by them, beinfs 
tdjü^ed to fumi&h provisions for them and all their atteudants 
in their journeys. Thatwhich I particularly ohserved, astoour 
travelling^ w ith bis bagg"a|ret was tliis, that ihoucfh we receivcd 
aiifficient pnivisioos botb for ourselves and our borses from the 
eountry^ as belongnng to tbe Mandarm, yet we were oblijrcd to 
pay for every Ünng we had, alter tbe market price of tbc 
country, and the Mandarin s Steward collcctcti it didy from u^ ; 
so that cur travelling in tbc tctinue of tbe Mandarin, tboiigb ic 



< 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 40B 

vas a very great kindness tous, was not such amiglity favoiir iii 
tim, but was a ^reat advantag(3 to bim, consideriiijjj tbere were 
about thirtj otber people travellcd in the same mamier besides 
US, under the protection of bis retiiiue ; for the country lurnisbed 
all the pro Vision s for nothing to him, and yet hc took ouc money 
for thera, 

We were tvveuty-five days travellin^ to Peldiig, tbrongh a 
country infinitely populoua, but 1 think badly ciiltivftted ; the 
husbandrj', the eccmomy, and the way of living miserable, 
tboiitjb tkey boast so much of the iodnstry of the people ; I say 
miserable, if compared with our own, but not so to these pooV 
wretclies, wlio kuow no otber. The pridc of the people is inli- 
nitcly gjeat, and exceeded by nothing but their poverly, in some 
parts, wliich jwlds to tbat which I call their misefy; and I 
must nceds think the naked savages ol' America live mnch more 
hnppily ümn the poorest sort of these, because as they bave 
noihing, so they desire notbiiig: : wbercas these are proud and 
insolent, and in the maiii are in nmny part« mere begrj^ars and 
dnid|?es; their ostentation is inexpressible ; and, ii' they can, 
they h)ve to keep multitndes of servants or slavea, whicfi is to 
the* l«st dc^ee ridit:ulous, as well as the contempt of all the 
World but themselves. 

I must confess, 1 travelied more pleasantly afterwards in the 
de«erls and vast \^ ildcrnesses of Grand Tartary than here ; and 
yet the roada hcre are well pavcd and well kept, and very con- 
venient for travellers : but nothintr was more awkward to me 
than to see such a baug:hty, impcrious, insulent people, in the 
midst of the grossest siraplicity and i^orance ; and my friend 
Falber Simon and I used to be very merry upon these occasions, 
to see the bcg^^arly pride of these people. For example, coniinsf 
by the house of a country ircntleman, as Father Simon calleä 
bim, aboiit teu lean^es off the city of Nanquin, we had first of all 
the honour to ride witb the master of the houae about two milea ; 
the State he rode in was a perfect Don Quixotism, beiug a mix- 
ture of pomp and poverty. llis hiibit was very proper for a 
BCÄramouch, or merry-andreiv, being a dirty ealieo, w ith hauging 
slecves, tasseis, und cuts and slashes abnost on every side : it 
covcred a tafiety vest, as greasy as a butcher's, and which testi- 
fied that bis honour mutjt be a most exquisite sloven. Bis horse 
was but a poor, starved, hobbling creature, and he bad two 
«lavea followed him on foot to drive the poor creature along : be 
bad a whip in his band, and hc belabonred thebeast as fast about 
the head as hia slaves did about the tail ; and thus be rode by us, 
Viith about ten or twelve servant«, going from the city to his 
country seat, about half a leag^ue before us. We travelied od 
£;ently, but tbis llgure of a gcntleman rode away before us ; and 
KB we stopped at a Ydlag^e about an hout to refresh us, wben we 
caiue by the country seut of this great manj t;^c saw him in a 



401 ADVENTCREB OF 

litilc place bcrore bis door, eatinp^ bis rcpast. It was a kind of a 
garden. but lie ^ras ver}' easy to be seeu ; and we were given to 
imdcrstand tliat tbc morc we looked at bim tbe better he would 
be pleased. He sat under a tree, somethin^ like the pahnetto, 
Trbicb effectually sbaded bim over tbe head,-aiid on tlie sdath 
side : but under tbe tree was also placed a large umbreUa, wfaich 
made tbat part look well enongh. He sat lolluig b4d: in a'great 
elbow-cbair, being a beavy corpalent man, and bad bis düttt 
brougbt bim by two women slaves; be bad two 'indref>oiieof 
wbi(£ fed tbe squire witb a spoon, and tbe Otber beld' tliie 'fidi 
witb onc band, and scraped olt' wbat be letfidlupon hi g^WowIri p*! 
beard and taifety vest witb tbe otber ; -wbile the great'&fe^imte 
tbou&:bt it below bim to cmploy bis own hands in any of Aon 
&miiiar offices, wbicb king:s and monarchfirwduldlnliher €o'tikin 
be tronbled witb tbe clumsy fingers of their servanta. 

I took tbis time to tbink wbat pains men's ]jride^t»t3|feni to, 
and bow troublesome a baugbty temper, thus ill masulged; rnnst 
be to a man of common sense ; and leaying the t^öor^'wnkcb to 
please bimsclf witb our looking at bim, aa if -We admifed loa 
pomp, tbougb we really pitied and contemned bim, We-punrtKd 
our journey : onlv Fatber Simon bad tbe curiosity io 'Stay to 
inform bimsclf wLat danties tbe country jnBtice bad to'Ma-ra 
in all bis State, wbicb be bad tbe bonour to taista oC'and 
wbicb was, I tbink, a mcss of boilcd rice, with a great 'pteoe of 
garlic in it, and a little bag fiUed witb green pepper, and another 
plant wliicb tbey bave tliere, sometbing like our ginger, bat 
smelling like mu'sk, and tasting like mustard ; all tbis i#as pat 
togetber, and a smnll ])iece of lean mutton boiled in it, and this was 
bis worship's repast; four or five sen'auts more attended at a dis- 
tancc, who, we supposed, were to eat of the same after tbör master. 

As for our Mandarin witb whom we travelled, be was respecled 
as a king, surroundcd always with bis gentlemen, and att6nded 
in all bis appearanccs witb such pomp, tbat I saw little of *hiin 
but at a distance ; but tliis I obscrved, that there was not a horse 
in bis retinue but tbat our carrier's pack-borses in England 
seemed to nie to look much better ; tbougb it was bard to judge 
rightly, for tbcy were so covcred witb equipage, mautles, trap- 
pings,* &c. tbat we could scarce scc anytliiug but their feet and 
tbeir hcads as tbey wcnt along. 

I was now ligbt-bearted, and all my trouble and perplexity 
tbat I bave given an account of being over, I bad no anxious 
tliougbt about me, which made tbis journey tbe pleasanter to 
me ; nor bnd I aiiy ill accident attended me, only in passing or 
fording a smnll river my borse feil, and made me free of the 
country, as tbey call it, that is to say, threw me in : tbe place 
was not dccp, but it wettcd me all over. I mention it, bccausc 
it spoilcd my pocket-book, whcrein I bad set down the nanics 
of several people and places wliich I bad occasion to rememberi 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 405 

and whicb, not taking due care of, the leaves rotted, and tbe 
words were never after to be read, to my great loss as to the 
names of some places I touched at in tliis joumey. 

At length we arrived at Peking : I had nobody witb me but 
the youth whom my nephew the captain had given me to attend 
me as a servant, and wbo proved very trusty and diligent ; and 
my partner had nobody with him, but one servant, who was a 
kinsman. As for the Portuguese pilot, he being desiroas to ses 
the court, we bore his charges for bis Company, and to use Mm 
as an interpreter, for he understood the language of the country, 
and spoke good French, and a little English ; and, indeed, this 
old man was a most usefül implement to us every where; for we 
had not been above a week at Peking, when he came laughing, 
Ah, Senhor Inglese, says he, I have something to teil you will 
make your heart glad ! — My heart glad ! says I ; what can that 
be ? I don't know anything in this country can either give me 
joy or grief, to any great degree. — Yes, yes, said the old man, in 
broken English, make you glad, me sorry. — ^Why, said I, will it 
make you sorry ? — Because, said he, you have brought me here 
twenty-five days' joumey, and will leave me to go back alone, 
and which way shall I get to my port afterwards without a ship, 
without a horse, without pecune : so he called money, being bis 
broken Latin, of which he had abundance to make us merry with. 
In Short, he told us there was a great caravan of Muscovite and 
Polish merchants in the city, prepanng to set.out on their 
joumey by land to Moscovy, within four or five weeks, and he 
was sure we would take the opportunity to go with them, and 
leave him behind, to go back alone. 

I confess I was greatly surprised with this good news, and 
had scarce power to speak to him for some time ; but at last I 
tumed to hmi, How do you know this ? said I. Are you sure it 
is true?--Yes, says he; I met this morning in the street an old 
acquaintance of mine, an Armenian, who is among them : he came 
last from Astracan, and was designing to go to Tonquin, where 
I formerly knew him, but has altered his mind, and is now re- 
solved to go with the caravan to Moscow, and so down the river 

Wolga to Astracan. Well, senhor, says I, do not be uneasy 

about being left to go back alone ; if this be a method for my 
Tetum to England, it shall be your fault if you go back to Macao 
at all. We then went to consult together what was to be done ; 
and I asked my partner what he thought of the pilot's news, and 
whether it would suit with his affairs ? He told me he would do 
just as I would ; for he had settled all his affairs so well at Ben- 
gal, and left his effects in such good hands, that as we had made 
a good voyage here, if he could vest it in China silks, wrought 
and raw, such as might be worth the carriage, he would be con- 
tent to go to England, and then make his voyage back to Bengal 
by the Company's ships 



406 . ADVENTURES OF 

Having resolved upön this, we i^reed that if onr Portagüese 
pilot would go with us we would bear bis cbarges to Moscow, 
or to England, if be pleased; nor, indeed, were we to be 
esteemed over generous in tbat neitber, if we had not rewarded 
bim fartber, tbe service be bad done us being really wortb more 
tban tbat : for be bad not only been a pilot to us at sea, but be 
bad been like a broker for us on sbore ; and bis procuring for 
US tbe Japan mercbant was some bundreds of pounds in our 
pockets. So we consulted togetber about it, and being willmg 
to gratify bim, wbicb was but doing bim justice, and very wij£ 
ing also to bave bim witb us besides, for be was a most neces- 
sary man on all occasions, we agreed to give bim a quantity of 
coined gold, wbicb, as I compute it, came to about one bundred 
and seventy-five pounds Sterling, between us, and to bear all bis 
cbarges, botb for bimself and borse, except only a horse to carry 
bis goods. Having settled tbis between ourselves, we called bim 
to let bim know wbat we bad resolved. I told bim he had com- 
plained of our being to let bim go back alone, and I was now tö 
teil bim we were resolved be sbould not go back at all ; tbat as 
we bad resolved to go to Europe witb tbe caravan, we resolved 
also be sbould go witb us ; and tbat we called him to know bis 
mind. He sbook bis bead, and said, it was a long joumey, and 
be bad no pecune to carry bim tbitber, or to subsist bimself wben 
be came tbere. We told bim we believed it was so, and tberefore 
we bad resolved to do sometbing for bim tbat sbould let him see 
bow sensible we were of tbe service be bad done us, and also 
bow agreeable he was to us : and then I told bim wbat we had 
resolved to give him here, which he might lay out as we would 
do our own; and that as for bis cbarges, if he would go witb us 
we would set him safe on shore (life and casualties excepted} 
either in Muscovy or England, which be would, at our own 
Charge, except only tbe carriage of bis goods. He received the 
proposal like a man transported, and told us he would go with 
US over the whole world; and so we all prepared for our joumey. 
However, as it was with us, so it was with tbe other merchants: 
they bad many things to do ; and instead of being ready in five 
weeks, it was four months and some days before all things were 
got togetber. 

It was the beginning of February, our style, when we set out 
from Peking, My partner and the old püot had gone express 
back to the port where we had first put in, to dispose of some 
goods which we bad left there: and I, with a Chinese mercbant 
whom I had some knowledge of at Nanquin, and who came to 
Peking on bis own affairs, went to Nanquin, where I bought 
ninety pieces of fine damasks, with about two hundred pieces 
of other very fine silks of several sorts, some mixed with gold, 
and had all these brought to Peking against my partner*s retum: 
besides tbis, we bought a very large quantity of raw silk, and 



ÄOBINSON CRUSOE, 



407 



some otlier goods, our car^o amoniitin^, in tliese iroüos onlvi 
to about three tbousand ßve hundred puunds Sterling ; vrhieli^ 
together with tea, and some fine calicoes, and three caraels' 
loads of niitmegs and cloves^ loaded in all eighteeu cameis for 
our sbate, beaides tbose we rode upon ; -n Meli, witli tvT» or 
three spare horses, and two horaes loaded with provisiüns, made 
TIS, in shorti twenty-six cameis and hoTi^es in our retinue* 

The Company was verv great, and, as near as I can reraember, 
Tnnde hetwe^n three and tbur hundred horse, and upwards of 
one hiuidred and twcnty men^ very \ve!l armed, and provided 
for all events : for as the Eastern earavans are suhject to he 
attacked by the Arabs, so are these by the Tartars; biit tbey are 
not alto^ether so dangeroiis as tbe Araha^ nor so barbarous, 
when tbey prevaiL 

The Company consisted of people of several nations; but there 
were above sixty of them nierchants or inhabitaiita of Moscow, 
thouj!;h of them some were Livonians ; and to our particular 
-«atisfaction, ü\e of them were Scots, who appcarcd also to be 
Tuen of great experience in business, and of very g^ood siibstance. 

^Vhen we had travelled one day's jöurney, tlie guides, who 
were five in nnmber, called all the genüemcn and mercbants^ 
that ia tu say, all the passensrers except the servants, to a g^eat 
couninli as tney called it. At this Council every one deposited 
a certain quantity of moncy lo a common stock, foF the neces- 
«ary expense of buyins: forage on the way, wherc it was not 
othenvise to be had» and for satisfying the guidcs, getting horses, 
and the Uke: and bere tbey constituted the journey, as tbey call 
it, viz. they named eaptains and oHicera to draw us all up, and 
givc the Word of command, in case of an attack, and give every 
one tbeir tum of command ; nor was tbia form in g us mto order 
any more tban what we fouud needful upou the way, as sbali 
be observed. 

The road all on this side of the conntry is very populous, nnd 
is fall of potters and earth makerSj that is to say, people that 
temper the eartb for the Cbina-ware ; and as I was Coming alon^, 
our Portugal pilot, who had always somethhig or other to say 
to make us merry, came sneering to me^ and told me be would 
show me the greatent rarity in all the conntry, aiul tbat 1 sbould 
b&ve this to say of China, aftcr all the itl-bumoured tbingä 1 had 
Bald of itt tbat l had seen one thing whicb was not to he secn in 
all the World beside. I was very importunate to know what it 
was: at last he trdd me it was a gentleman's bouse built with 
China-ware, Well, aaya 1, are not the materiak of their huild- 
ings the product of their own conntry, and so it is all China-ware, 
is it not ? — No, no, says he, I mean it ia a bouse all made of 
China-w are, euch as you call it in England, or» as it is called in 
our country, porcelain.— Well, says I, such a thingmay be; bow 
big is it? Can w« carry it in a box upon a camel? If wo can, 



408 ADVENTÜRES OP 

tre will buy it. — ^Upön a camel! says the old pilot, holding up 
both his hands ; why there is a family of thirty people lives in it. 

I was then curious, indeed, to see it ; and when I came to it, 
it was notbing but tbis : it was a timber bouse, or a bouse baut, 
as we call it in England, witb latb and plaster ; but all this 
plastering was really China-ware, that is to say, it was plastered 
witb tbe eartb tbat makes Chinfr-ware. Tbe outside, wbicb tbe 
sun sbone bot upon, was glazed, and looked very well, perfectly 
wbite, and painted witb blue figures, as tbe large Cbina-ware in 
England is painted, and bard as if it bad been bumed. As to 
tbe inside, all tbe walls, instead of wainscot, were lined witii 
bardened and painted tiles, like tbe little Square tiles we call 
galley-tiles in England, all made of tbe finest Cbina, and the 
figures exceeding fine, indeed, witb extraordinary variety of 
colours, mixed witb gold ; many tiles making but one figure, bat 
joined so artificially, tbe mortar being made of tbe same earth, 
tbat it was very bard to see where tbe tiles met. Tbe floors of 
tbe rooms were of tbe same composition, and as bard as tbe 
eartben floors we bave in use in several parts of England ; as 
bard as stone, and smootb, but not bumed and painted, except 
some smaller rooms, like closets, wbicb were all as it were paved' 
witb tbe same tue : tbe ceiling, and all tbe plastering work in 
tbe wbole bouse, were of tbe same eartb ; and, after all, tbe roof 
was covered witb tiles of tbe same, but of a deep sbining black. 
Tbis was a Cbina warebouse, indeed, truly and literally to be 
called so, and bad I not been upon tbe joumey, I could bave 
stayed some days to see and examine the particulars of it. They 
told me there were fountains and fishponds in tbe gardeu, xll 
paved on the bottom and sides veitb the same ; and fine statues 
set up in rows on the walks, entirely formed of tbe porcelain 
earth, and burned whole. 

As this is one of the singularities of China, so tbey may be 
allowed to excel in it ; but I am very sure they excel in their 
accounts of it ; for they told me such incredible tbings of tbeir Per- 
formance in crockery-ware, for such it is, that I care not to relate, 
as knowing it could not be true. They told me, in particular, 
of one workman tbat made a ship witb all its tackle, and masts 
and sails, in earthen-ware, big enougb to carry fifty men. If 
they had told me he launched it, and made a voyage to Japan in 
it, I might bave said something to it, indeed ; but as it was, I 
knew the whole of tbe story, wbicb was, in sbort, asking pardon 
for the Word, tbat the fellow lied : so I smiled, and said notbing 
toit. 

This odd sigbt kept me two bours bebind tbe caravan, for 
wbich the leader of it for the day fined me about tbe value of 
three Shillings ; and told me, if it had been three days' joumey 
without tbe wall, as it was three days' within, be must bave fineä 
me four times as much, and made me ask pardon tbe next 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 40d 

Council day: I promised tobe more orderly; and, indeed, I found 
afterwards the Orders made for keeping all together were abso- 
lutely necessary for our common safety. 

In two days more we passed the great China Wall, made for a 
. fortification against the Tartars ; and a very great work it is, 
going over hüls and mountains in a needless track, where the 
rocks are impassable, and the precipices such as no enemy could 
possibly enter, or indeed climb up, or where, if they did, no wall 
could hinder them. They teil us its length is near a thousand 
English miles, but that the country is five hundred in a straight 
measured line, which the wall bounds, without measuring the 
windings and turnings it takes : it is about four fathoms high, 
and as many thick in some places. 

I stood still an hour, or thereabout, without trespassing our 
Orders (for so long the caravan was in passing the gate), to look 
at it on every side, near and far off, I mean that was within my 
riew ; and the guide of our caravan, who had been extolling it 
for the wonder of the world, was mighty eager to hear my 
opinion of it. I told him it was a most excellent thing to keep 
out the Tartars; which he happened not to understand as I 
meant it, and so took it for a compliment; but the old pilot 
laughed : O, Senhor Inglese, says he, you speak in colours. — In 
colours ! Said I ; what do you mean by that? — Why you speak 
what looks white this way, and black that way : gay one way, 
and dull another. You teil him it is a good wall to keep out 
Tartars ; you teil me by that it is good for nothing but to keep 
out Tartars. I understand you, Senhor Inglese ; I understand 
you; but Senhor Chinese understood you his own way. — Well, 
says I, senhor, do you think it would stand out an army of our 
country people, with a good train of artillery, or our endjieers, 
with two companies of miners ? Would not they batter it down 
in ten days, that an army might enter inbattalia; or blow it up in 
the air, foundation and all, that there should be no. sign of it left ? 
— Ay, ay, says he, I know that. The Chinese wanted mightily 
to know what I said, and I gave him leave to teil him a few days 
after, for we were then almost out of their country, and he was to 
leave us.in a little time after this; but when heknew what I said, 
he was dumb all the rest of the way, and we heard no more of his 
fine Story of the Chinese power and greatness while he stayed. 

After we passed this mighty nothing, called a wall, lomething 
like the Picts* wall, so famous in Northumberland, built by the 
Romans, we began to find the country thinly inhabited, and the 
people rather confined to live in fortified towns and cities, as 
being subject to the inroads and depredations of the Tartars, 
who rob in great armies, and therefore are not to be resisted by 
the naked ioliabitants of an open country. And here I began 
to find the necessity of keeping together in a caravan as we 
travelledy for we saw several ti^oops of Tartars roving about ; 



410 ADVENTURES OP 

but when I came to see them distincüy, I wondered more that 
the Chinese empire could be conquered by such contemptible 
fellows ; for they are a mere borde of wild fellows, keeping no 
Order, and understanding no discipline or manner of figbt. Aeir 
borses are poor lean creatures, taugbt nothing, and fit for 
nothing ; and this we found the first day we saw tbem, wbich 
was after we entered the wilder part of the country, Our leader 
for the day gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a hunting, 
as they call it, and what was this but hunting of sheep : bow- 
ever, it may be caUed hunting too, for the creatures are the 
wildest and swiftest of foot that ever I saw of tbeir kind ; only 
they will not run a great way, and you are sure of sport when 
you begin the chase, for they appear generally thirty or forty in 
a. flock, and, like true sheep, always keep together when they fly. 

In pursuit of this odd sort of game, it was our hap to meet 
with about forty Tartars ; whetber they were hunting mutton as 
we were, or whetber they looked for another kind of prey, we 
know not; but as soon as they saw us, one of them blew akind 
of hörn very loud, but with a barbarous sound that I had never 
heard before, and, by the way, never care to hear again : we all 
supposed this was to call their friends about them, and so it 
was ; for in less than ten minutes a troop of forty or fifty more 
appeared at about a mile distance ; but our work was over first, 
as it happened. 

One of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened to be 
amongst us, and as soon as he heard the hom he told us that 
we had nothing to do but to charge them immediately, without 
loss of time ; and drawing us up in a line, he asked if we were 
resolved. We told bim we were ready to follow him; so he rode 
directly towards them. They stood gazing at us like a mere 
crowd, drawn up in no Order, nor showing the face of any order 
at all ; but as soon as they saw us advance, they let fly their 
arrows, which, however, missed us very happily ; it seems they 
mistook not their aim, but their distance ; for their arrows all 
feil a little short of us, but with so true an aim, that had we 
been about twenty yards nearer, we must have had several meu 
wounded, if not killed. 

Immediately we halted, and though it was at a great distance, 
we fired, and sent them leaden bullets for wooden arrows, fol- 
lowing Ol* shot füll gallop, to fall in among them sword in band, 
for so our bold Scot that led us directed. He was, indeed, but 
a merchant, but he behaved with that vigour and bravery on 
this occasion, and yet with such cool courage too, tbat I never 
saw any man in action fitter for command. As soon as we came 
up to them, we fired our pistols in their faces, and then drew ; 
but they fled in the greatest confusion imaginable. The only 
stand any of them made was on our right, where three of them 
stood, and, by signs, called the rest to come back to them, having 



fi kind of scimitar in their handa, and theirbowa hanpnnjto tbeir 
backs, Oiir brave coniniander, witliout asking anybody to füllow 
hira, gallopa up close to tliem, and ivith bis fiisee knocks one of 
theni ofF hia horse» killed tbe second \ntli bis pistol, and tbe 
tbird niti away ; and tbus ended otir figbt : but we had tbis 
miäfortune attendmij it, tbat ^dl our niiitton we had in cbase got 
avvay, We had not a man killed or hurt ; but aa for tlie Tartars, 
there were aboiit five of them killed . bow mauy were waunded 
we knevTT not; but tbie we knew, tbat tlie otber pariy were so 
frigbtened with tbe noise of onr guns, that tbey made off, and 
ncver made any attempt lipon iis. 

We were all tbis w bile in tbe Chinese dominions, and tbere- 
fore tbe Tartars were not so bold a« afterwards: but in abont 
five days we entered a vast, g^eat, wild desert^ wbich lield u» 
tbree days and nigbts' mareb ; and we were obliged to carry our 
water with us in great leatbern bottles, and to encamp all night, 
just as I have heard tbey do in tbe desert of Arabia. 

I askcd nur guidea w hose dominiün this was in ; and tbey 
told me tbis was a kind of bordcPr tbat migbt be called no man's 
land, beinor a part of Great Karakatbay, or Grand Tartary : but, 
however, it was all reckoiied aa belonj^ing to China, but that 
tbere was no care taken bere to preserve it Crom the inroads of 
tliicves, and tberefore it was reckoned the worat desert in tbe 
whole marcb, ihongb we were to go ovcr some much larger. 

In passing tbis wilclerness, w hieb i^as at first very frightfiü 
to me, we saw, two or tbree times, little parties of tbe Tartars, 
but tbey seemed to be npon their own atfairs, and to have no 
design npon us : and so, like the man wbo met the devil, if tbey 
Tiad notbing to say to us, w e had nothing: to say to tbem ; we 
let them go, Once, however, a party of them came so near as 
to stand and gaze at usrwhether it was to consider if they 
should attaek us or not, weknew not : but wben we were passed 
at some distanee by them, we mnde a rcar gnard of forty nien» 
andstood ready tbr them, letting the caravan pass half a mile or 
thereabouts before us : but after a while they marcbed off; only 
we found they salnted U3 with five arrows at tbeir parting, one 
of wbich wounded a horse, so that it diaabled Mm, and we left 
hira the ne:tt day, poor creature, in great needof a good farrier: 
they migbt sboot more arrows, whieh migbt fall short of us, but 
we saw no more arrows or Tartars tbat time* 

We travelled near a month after this, tbe ways not being so 
ood as at firat^ tbougb still in the dominions of the emperor 
r China, but lay for the most part in villagejä, some of which 
rere fortified, because of the incursions of the Tartars. Wben 
we were come to one of these towna (it was about two days and 
a half journey before we were to oome to tbe city of Naum), 
I wanted to buy a camel, of wbich there are pienty to be sold all 
the \y&y upon that road, and barse^ aläOi such as tbey are» 

E E 



412 ADVENTÜRES OP 

because, so many caravans Coming that way, they are oflen 
wanted. The person that I spoke to, to get me a camel, would 
liave gone and fetcbed one for me ; but I, like a fool, must be 
officious, and go myself along with him : the place was about 
two miles out of the village, where it seems they kept the cameis 
and horses feeding under a guard. 

I walked it on foot, with my old pilot and a Chinese, being 
very desirous of a little variety. When we came to the place» 
it was a low marshy ground, walled round with a stone wall, 
piled up dry, without mortar or earth among it, like a park, 
with a little guard of Chinese soldiers at the door. Having 
bought a camel, and agreed fbr the price, I came away, and the 
Chineseman that went with me led the camel, when on a sudden 
came up five Tartars on horseback ; two of them seized the fellow 
and took the camel from him, while the other three stepped up 
to me and my old pilot, seeing us, as it were, unarmed, for I had 
no weapon about me but my sword, which could but ill defend 
me against three horsemen. The first that came up stopped 
Short upon my drawing my sword, for they are arrant cowards ; 
but a second Coming upon my left, gave me a blow on the head, 
which I never feit tili afterwards, and wondered, when I came 
to myself, what was the matter, and where I was, for he laid me 
flat on the ground ; but my never-failing old pilot, the Portu- 
guese (so Providence, unlooked for, directs deliverances from 
dangers which to us are unforeseen), had a pistol in his pocket, 
which I knew nothing of, nor the Tartars neither : if they had, 
1 suppose they would not have attacked us ; but cowards are 
alvvays boldest when there is no danger. The old man seeing 
me down, with a bold heart stepped up to the fellow that had 
Struck me, and laying hold of his arm with one band, and puUinjj 
him down by main Ibrce a little towards him with the other, 
shot him in the head, and laid him dead upon the spot He 
then immediately stepped up to him who had stopped us, as I 
Said, and before he could come forw^ard again, made a blow at 
him with a scimitar which he always wore, but missing the man, 
cut his horse in the side of his head, cut one of the ears oflf by 
the root, and a great slice down by the side of his face. The 
poor beast, enraged with the wound, was no more to be govemed 
by his rider, though the fellow sat well enough too, but awav 
he flew, and carried him quite out of the pilot's reach and at 
some distance, rising upon his hind legs, threw down the Tartar, 
and feil upon him. 

In this interval, the poor Chinese came m who had lost the 
camel, but he had no weapon : however, seeing the Tartar 
down, and his horse fallen upon him, away he runs to him, 
and seizing'upon an ugly ill-favoured weapon he had bv his 
side, something like a pole-axe. but not a pole-axe neither, he 
wrenched it from him, and made shift to knock his Tartarian 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 413 

brains out with it. But my old man had tbe third Tartar to 
deal with still ; and seeing he did not fly, as he expected, nor 
come on to fight him, as he apprehended, but stand stock-still, 
the old man stood still too, and feil to work with his tackle, to 
Charge his pistol again ; but as soon as the Tartar saw the pistol, 
away he scoured, and left my pilot, my champion I called him 
afterwards, a complete vietory. 

By this time I was a little recovered; for I thoughtwhen I 
first began to wake, that I had been in a sweet sleep ; but, as I 
Said above, I wondered where I was, how I came upon the 
ground, and what was the matter. But a few moments after, 
as sense retumed, I feit pain, though I did not know where ; 
so I clapped my band to my head, and took it away bloody : 
then I feit my head ache ;('and then, in a moment, memory re- 
turned, and every thiug was present to me again. I jumped 
upon my feet iustan^^'^'and got hold of my sword, but no 
enemies in view : I. found a Tartar lie dead, and his horse 
Standing very qudöÜy by him ; and, looking further, I saw my 
Champion and .fleliverer, who had been to see what the Chinese 
had aone, ^Qlhing back with his banger in his band : the old 
man, se^g me on my feet, came running to me, and embraced 
me \atli a great deal of joy, being afraid before that I had been 
killea ; and seeing me bloody, would see how I was hurt : but it 
was not nfuch, only what we call a broken head ; neither did 1 
afterwards find any great inconvenience from the blow, for it was 
well again in two or three days. 

We made no great gain, however, by this victory, for we lost 
a camel and gained a horse ; but that which was remarkable, 
when we came back to the village, the man demanded to be paid 
for the camel ; .1 disputed it, and it was brought to a hearing 
before the Chinese judge of the place. To give him his due, he 
acted with a great deal of prudenee and impartiality ; and, having 
heard both sides, he gravely asked the Chinese man that went 
with me to buy the camel, whose servant he was ? I am no 
servant, says he, but went with the stranger. — At whose re- 
quest? says the justice. At the stranger's request, says he. 
Why, then, says the justice, you were the stranger's servant for 
the time ; and the camel being delivered to his servant, it was 
delivered to him, and he must pay for it. 

I confess the thing was so clear, that I had not a word to say : 
bat, admiring to see such just reasoning upon the consequence, 
and an aocurate stating of the case, I paid willingly for the 
camel, and sent for another; but, you may observe, I did not go 
to fetch i( myself any more, for I had had enough of that. 

The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese empire : they 
call it fortified, and so it is, as fortifications go there ; for this I 
will venture to affirm, that all the Tartars in Karakathay, which, 
I believe, are some millions, could not batter down the walle 

££2 



414 ADVENTURES OF 

with their bows and arrows ; but to call it strong, if it were 
attacked with caxmon, would be to make those who understand 
it laugh at you. 

We wanted, as I havc said, above two days' joumey of tbis 
city, wben messengers were sent express to every part of the 
road to teil all travellers and Caravans to halt tUl they had a 
guard sent for them; for that an unusual body of Tartars, 
making ten thousand in all, had appeared in the way, about 
thirty miles beyond the city. 

This was very bad news to travellers ; however, it was care- 
fully done of the govemor, and we were very glad to hear we 
should have a guard. Accordingly, two days after, we had two 
hundred soldiers sent us from a garrison of the Chinese, on our 
left, and three hundred raore from Üiß city of Naum, and with 
these we advanced boldly; the three hundred soldiers from 
Naum marched in our front, the two liundred in our rear, and 
our men on each side of our cameis, with our baggage^ and the 
whole Caravan in the centre : in this order, and well prepared 
for battle, we thought ourselves a match for the whole ten 
thousand Mogul Tartars, if they had appeared; but the next 
day, when they did appear, it was quite another thins. 

It was early in the morning, when, marching m>m a well 
situated little town, called Changu, we had a river to pass, 
which we were obliged to ferry ; and, had the Tartars ha^ any 
intelligence, then had been the time to have attacked us, when 
the Caravan being over, the rear guard was behind ; but they 
did not appear there. About three hours after, when we were 
entered upon a desert of about fifteen or sixteen miles over, 
behold, by a cloud of dust they raised, we saw an enemy was at 
band ; and they were at band, indeed, for they came on upon 
the spur. 

The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had talked so big 
the day before, began to stagger ; and the soldiers frequently 
looked behind them, which is a certain sign in a soldier that he 
is just ready to run away. My old pilot was of my mind ; and, 
being near me, called out, Senhor Inglese, says he, those fellows 
must be encouraged, or they will ruin us aU ; for if the Tartars 
come on, they wül never stand it. — I am of your mind, said I ; 
but what must be done? — Done! says he, let fifty of'our men 
advance, and flank them on each wing, and encourage them ; and 
they will fight like brave fellows in brave Company : but, witb- 
out this, they will every man turn bis back. Immediately I 
rode up to our leader, and told him, who was exactly of our 
mind; and accordingly fifty of us marched to the right wing, 
and fiity to the left, and the rest made a line of rescue ; and so 
we marched, leaving the last two hundred men to make a body 
by themselves, and to guard the cameis ; only that, if need were, 
they should send a hundred men to assist the last fifty. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 415 

Ina Word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerabls Company 
they were : how many we could not teil, but ten thousand, we 
thougbt, was tbe least : a party of tbem came on first and viewed 
cur posture, traversing the ground in the front of onr line ; and, as 
we found them within gun-shot, our leader ordered the two 
wings to advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on each wing 
with their shot, which was done ; but they went off, and I sup- 
pose back, to give an account of the reception they were likely 
to meet with ; and, indeed, that salute cloyed their stomachs, for 
they immediately halted, stood awhile to consider of it, and wheel- 
ing off to the left, they gave over their design, and said no more 
to US for that time ; which was very agreeable to our circum- 
stances, which were but very indifferent for a battle with such a 
number. 

Two days after we came Jto the city of Naun, or Naum ; we 
thanked the govemor for bis care of us, and collected to the 
value of a hundred crowns, or thereabouts, which we gave to 
the soldiers sent to guard us ; and here we rested one day. This 
is a garrison, indeed, and there were nine hundred soldiers kept 
here ; but the reason of it Was, that formerly the Muscovite 
frontiers lay nearer to them than they now do, the Muscovites 
having abanduned that part of the cöuntry, which lies from this 
city west for about two hundred miles, as desolate and unfit for 
use ; and more especially being so very remote, and so difficult 
to send troops thither for its defence : for we had yet above two 
thousand miles to Muscovy, properly so called. 

After this we passed several great rivers, and two dreadful 
deserts ; one of which we were sixteen days passing over ; and 
which, as I said, was to be called no man's land ; and, on the 
13th of April, we came to the frontiers of the Muscovite 
dominions. I think the first town, or fortress, whichever it may 
be called, that belonged to the czar of Muscovy, was called 
Arguna, being on the west gide of the river Arguna. 

I could not but discover au infinite satisfaction that I was so 
soon arrived in, as I called it, a Christian country, or, at least, in 
a country governed by Christians ; for though the Muscovites 
do, in my opinion, but just deserve the name of Christians, yet 
such they pretend to he, ttnd toe very dirvout in their way. It 
would certainly occnr to ntty man wbo tMIrek the World as I 
have done, and who had any power of refleetion, what a bless- 
ing it is to be brougbt into the world whefe tbc name of God 
and a Redeemer is known, adored and worshipped; and not 
where the people, given up by Heaven to strong delusions, wor- 
ship the devil, and prostrate themselves to Stocks and stones ; 
worship monsters, Clements, horrid-shaped animals, and statues 
or images of monsters. Not a town or city we passed through 
but had their pa^ods, their idols, and their temples, and ignorant 
people worshippmg even the works of their own hands. Now 



416 ADV£NTUE£S OP 

we came wbere, at leaat, & face of Ihe Cliriatian worsliip appeared 
where the knee was bowed to JetuLs ; und whether ignorantly or 
not, yet the Christian religion wag owned^ and tbe nume of tbe 
tnie God waa calied upoii and adored, and ii tnadc ray f^oul re- 
joioe to see it. I Btiluied the brave Scots merchant I mcntioüö 
above with my first aeknüwledgmeni of ihis ; aud tüking bim l^ 
the band, I said to bim, Blessed bc God, we are once agaS 
aitiongst Christians. He smiled, and ansvvered^ Do not rejoice 
too soon^ countryraan ; tbe^e Muscovites are but an odd sort of 
Christians ; and bat for the name of it, you may see very little 
of tbe substance for sorae monihs fartber of our journey. Well, 
«ayä I, hut still it ia better than paganism and wor^bi'pping of 
devilit, — Why, I will teil yoii, suys he, except the Russian soldieru 
in the garrisons, and a lew of the inbabitjmtÄ of the citiea upou 
the road, all tbe rest of this touutry, i'or above a thousand mibä 
fartber, is inhabited by the worst und raost ignoraut ot paguns>: 
and so indeed, we found it. 



r^H^^II 



^>1 




II OUTE THROUGH MUSCOVY. — ROBINSON AND A SCOTS MERCIIANT 
DESTROY AN I0OL,— THE WHOLli CARAVAN IN GREAT PERIL 
FRüNr TilK rUHSUIT OF THE PAÜANS. — TOBOLSKL — MLSCOVITE 
EXILES. — DEPARTURE FROM TOBOLSKI. — ENCOUNTER WJTH A 
TROOP OF RÜDBERS iN TUE DESERT. ^^ROBmSON REACHES 
ARCHANGEL, AND FINALE Y AREIVES IN ENGLAND. 



We were now launched into tlie greatest piece of solid eartli, if J 
iinderstand aay Ibiiig of tbe sui'lace of the gelobe, that is to be 
found in any part ül' the worJd ; we liad, at least, twch e thou- 
sand in lies to ibe sea, eastward ; two thoiisaiid to the bottom 
(if the Baltic sea, tv est ward ; and above three thousand, if ive lef^ 
that sea and \^ ciit oii west, to the Britiäh and French Channels ; 
we had lull live ilioiisand iniles to the ludiaii or Peraian eea^ 
south ; nnd about eijrht liundred to the Frozen sea, north, ^ay, 
if soine peoplo miiy be bdieved, there mischt be uo sea, north- 
east, tili we came round the pole, and consequently into the 
north-west, and so liad a contincnt of land into America, the 
Lord knawB where ; thongli I could give some reasons why I 
believe that to be a tnistake. 

As WC enlered into the Muscovite dominionB a good whilc 
hefore we came to any considerablo towns, we bad nothing to 
obacrve therc but this : first, ihat all the rivers run to the eaat : 
a** I underatood by the charts, which sonic in our caravan had 
with tliem, it waa piain all those rivers ran into the great river 
Vamour, or Amour ; which nver, by the natural course of it. 



418 ADVENTÜRES OF 

must run into the East sea, or Chinese Ocean. The story they 
teil US, that the mouth of this river is choked up with bulrushea 
of a monstrous growth, viz. three feet about, and twenty or thirty 
feet high, I must be allowed to say, I believe nothing of it ; but, 
as its navigation is of no use, because there is no trade that way, 
the Tartars, to whom it alone belongs, dealing in nothing but 
cattle, so nobody, that ever I heard of, has been curious enough 
either to go down to the mouth of it in boats, or come up 
from the mouth of it in ships, as far as I can find : but this is 
certain, that this river running east, in the latitude of abont 
fifty degrees, carries a vast concounre o( rivers along with it, and 
finas an ocean to empty itself in <]uit latitude : so we are sure 
of sea there. 

Some leagues to the north c^tibis riyer there are sereral con- 
siderable rivers, whose streams nm as dae north as the Yamour 
runs east, and these are all found to join their waters with the 
great river Tartarus, named so from the northermost nations 
of the Mogul Tartars ; who, as the Chinese say, were the first 
Tartars in the world ; and who, as our geographers allege, are 
the Gog and Magog mentioned in sacred story. These rivers 
running all northward, as well as all the other rivers I am yet to 
speak of, make it evident that the northern ocean bounds the 
land also on that side ; so that it does not seem rational in the 
least to think that the land can extend itself to join with America 
on that side, or that there is not a communication between the 
northern and eastern ocean : but of this I shall say no more ; it 
was my Observation at that time, and therefore I take notice of 
it in this place. 

We now advanced from the river Arguna by easy and moderate 
journeys, and were very visibly obliged to the care the Czar of 
Muscovy has taken to have cities and towns built in as manv 
places as it is possible to place them, where bis soldiers keep 
garrison, something like the stationary soldiers placed bv the 
Romans in the remotest countries of their empire ; some of which 
that I had read of were placed in Britain, for the security of com- 
merce, and for the lodging travellers ; and thus it was bere : for 
where ver we came, though at these towns and stations the gar- 
risons and governors were Russians and professed Christians, yet 
the inhabitants were mere pagans ; sacrificing to idols, and 
worshipping the sun, moon, and stars, or all the host of beaven ; 
and not only so, but were, of all the heathens and pagans that 
ever I met with, the most barbarous, except only that they did 
not eat men's flesh, as our savages of America did. 

Some instauces of this we met within the country between 
Arguna, where we enter the Muscovite dominions, and a city 
of Tartars and Russians together, called Nertzinskoi, in which 
is a continued desert or forest, which cost us twenty days to 
travel over. In a village, near the last of these places, "^I had the 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 419 

curiosity to go and 8ee their way of living, which i» most brutish 
and insufferable: they had, I suppose, a great sacrifice that 
day ; for there stood out, upon an old stump of a tree, an idol 
made of wood, frightful as the devil ; at least, as any thing we 
can think of to represent the devil can be made : it nad a Eead 
not so much as resembling any creature that the world ever saw ; 
ears as big as goats' horns, and as high ; eyes as big as a crown 
piece ; a nose hke a crooked ram's-horn, and a mouth extended 
four-comered, like that of a lion, with horrible teeth, hooked 
like a parrot's under-bill : it was dressed np in the filthiest 
manner that you could suppose : its upper garment was of sheep- 
skins, with the wool outward ; a great Tartar bonnet on the 
head, with two homs growing through it : it was about eight feet 
high, yet had no feet or legs, nor any other proportion of parts. 

This scarecrow was set up at the outer side of the village ; 
and, when I came near to it, there were sixteen or seventeen 
creatures, whether men or women I could not teil, for they made 
no distinction by their habits, all lying flat upon the ground 
round this formidable block of shapeless wood : I saw no motion 
among them any more than if they had been all logs of wood, 
like the idol, and at first I really thought they had been so ; but, 
when I came a little nearer, they started up upon their feet, and 
raised a howling cry, as if it had been so many deep-mouthed 
hounds, and walked away, as if they were displeased at our dis- 
turbing them. A little way off frora the idol, and at the door of 
a tent or hut, made all of she&p-skins and cow-skins dried, stood 
three butchers, — I thought they were such : when ,1 came nearer 
to them, I found they had long knives in their hands ; and in 
the middle of the tent appeared three sheep küled, and one young 
buUock or steer. These, it seems, were sacrifices to that senseless 
log of an idol ; the three men were priests belonging to it, and 
the seventeen prostrated wretches were the people who brought 
the offering, and were makiug their prayers to that stock. 

I confess, I was more moved at their stupidity and brutish 
worship of a hobgoblin than ever I was at anything in my life ; 
to see God's most glorious and best creature, to whom he had 
granted so many advantages, even by creation above the rest of 
the works of his hands, vested with a reasonable soul, and that 
80ul adorned with faculties and capacities adapted both to honour 
his Maker, and be honoured by him, sunk and degenerated to a 
degree so verjr stupid as to prostrate itself to a frightful nothing, 
a mere imagmary object, dressed up by themselves, and made 
terrible to themselves by their own contrivance, adorned only 
with clouts and rags ; and that this should be the effect of mere 
ignorance, vnrought up into hellish devotion by the devil himself; 
who, envying to his Maker the homage and adoration of his 
creatures, had deluded them into such sordid and brutish things 
as one would think should shock nature itself! 



42C ADV£NTUR£S OV 

But what signified all the astonishment and reflection of 
tlioughts : thus it was, and I saw it befbre my eyes, and there 
was no room to wonder at at, or think it impossible : all my 
admiration tumed to rage, and I rode up to the Image or mon- 
ster, call it what you will, and with my sword made a stroke at 
the bonnet that was on its head, and cut it in two ; and oneof 
cur mcn that was with me took hold of the sheep-skin that 
covered it, and pulled at it ; when, behold, a inost hideous out- 
cry and howling ran through the village, and two or three hun- 
dred people came about my ears, so that I was glad to scour for 
it, for we saw some had bows and arrows ; but I resolved from 
that moment to visit them again. 

Our Caravan rested three nights at the town, wbich was about 
four miies off, in order to provide some horses which they 
wanted, several of the horses having been lamed and jaded with 
the badness of the way, and long march over the last desert ; so 
we had some leisure here to put my design in execution. I 
communicated my design to the Soots merchant of Moscow, of 
whose courage I had sufficient testimony : I told him what I 
had Seen, and with what indignation I had since thought that 
human nature could be so degenerate ; I told him, if I could get 
but four or five men well armed to go with me, I was resolved 
to go and destroy that vile, abominable idol, and let them see 
that it had no power to help itself ; and consequently could not 
be an object of worship, or to be prayed to, much less help them 
that offered sacrifices to it 

He laughed at me : — says he, Your zeal may be good, but 
what do you propose to yourself by it? — Propose! said I; to 
vindicate the honour of God, which is insulted by this devil- 
worship. — But how will it vindicate the honour of God, said 
he, while the people will not be able to know what you mean 
by it, unless you could speak to them, and teil them so? And 
then they will fight you, and beat you too, I'U assure you; for 
they are desperate fellows, and that especially in defence of their 
idolatry. — Can we not, said I, do it in the night, and then leave 
them the reasons and the causes in writing in their own lan- 
guage? — Writing! said he; why there is not a man in five 
nations of them that knows anything of a letter, or how to read 
a Word any way. — Wretched ignorance! said I to him : however, 
1 have a great mind to do it ; perhaps nature may draw infer- 
ences from it to them, to let them see how brutish they are to 
worship such horrid things. — Look you, sir, said he,'if your 
zeal prompts you to it so w armly, you must do it ; but, in the 
next place, I would have you consider, these wild nations of 
people are subjected by force to the Czar of Muscovy's domi- 
nion, and if you do this, it is ten to one but they w ill come by 
thousands to the governor of Nertzinskoi, and demand satisfac- 
tion ; and if he cannot give them satiöfiictior., it is ten to one but 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 421 

they revolt ; and it will occasion a new war with all the Tartars 
in the country. 

This, I confess, put new thoughts into my head for awhile, 
but 1 harped upon the same string still ; and all that day I was 
tineasy to put my project in exocution. Towards the evening 
the Scots merchant met me by accident in our walk about the 
town, and desired to speak with me : 1 believe, said he, I have 
put you off your good design ; I have been a little concerned 
about it since : for I abhor idolatry as much as you can do. — 
Truly, Said I, you have put it off a little, as to the execution of 
it, but you have not put it out of my thoughts ; and 1 believe 
I shali do it before I quit this place, though I were to be deli- 
vered up to them for satisfaction. — No, no, said he, God forbid 
they should deliver you up to such a crew of monsters ! They 
shall not do that neither ; that would be murdering you indeed. 
— Why, said I, how would they use me? — Use you! said he, I'll 
teil you how they served a poor Russian, who affronted'them in 
their worship, just as you did, and whom they took prisoner, 
after they had lamed him with an arrow, that he could not run 
away: they took him and strippedhim stark-naked, and set him 
lipon the top of th« idol-monster, and stood all round him, and 
shot as many arrows into him as would stick over his whole 
body ; and then they bumt him, and all the arrows sticking in 
Mm, as a saciifice to the idol. — And was this the same idol ? 
said I. Yes, said he, the very same.— Well, said I, I will teil 
you a story. So I related the story of our men at Madagascar, 
and how they bumt and sacked the village there, and killed 
man, woman, and chüd, for their murdering one of our men, 
just as it is related before ; and I added, that J thought we ought 
to do so to this \illage. 

He listened very attentively to the story ; but when I talked 
of doing so to that village, said he, You mistake very much ; it 
was not this village, it was almost a hundred miles from this 
place; but it was the same idol, for they carry him about in pro- 
cession all over the country. — Well, said I, then that idol ought 
to be punished for it; and it shall, said 1, if I live this night out. 

In a Word, finding me resolute, he liked the design, and told 
me I should not go alone, but he would go with me, but he 
would go first and bring a stout fellow, one of his countrymen, 
to go also with us : and one, said he, as famous for his zeal as 
you can desire any one to be against such devilish things as 
these. In a word, he brought me his comrade, a Scotsman, whom 
he called Captain Richardson ; and gave him a füll account of 
what I had seen, and also what I intendcd ; and he told me 
readily, he would go with me if it cost him his life. So we agreed 
to go, only we three. I had, indeed, proposed it to my partner, 
but he declined it. He said, he was ready to assist me to the 
utmost, and upon all occasions, for my dcfence; but this was an 



422 ADVENTÜRES OF 

adventure quite out of bis way : so, I say, we resolved upon on? 
work, only we three and my man-servant, and to put it in execu- 
tion that night about midnight, with all the secrecy imaginable. 

However, upon second tboughts, we were willing to delay it 
tili tbe next night, because, the caravan being to set forward in 
the morning, we supposed the governor could not pretend to 
give them any satisfaction upon us when we were out of bis 
power. The Scots merchant, as steady in his resolution for the 
enterprise as bold in executing, brought me a Tartar's robe or 
gown of sheep-skins, and a bonnet, with a bow and arrows, and 
had provided the same for himself and his countryman, that tbe 
people, if they saw us, should not deterraine who we were. 

All the first night we spent in mixing up some conabustible 
matter with aqua vitae, gunpowder, and such other materials as 
we could get ; and, having a good quantity of tar in a little pot, 
about an hour after night we set out upon our expedition. 

We came to the place about eleven o'dock at night, and found 
that the people had not the least jealousy of danger attending 
their idol. The night was cloudy ; yet the moon gave us light 
enough to see that the idol stood just in the same posture and 
place that it did before. The people seemed to be all at their 
rest ; only, that in the great hut, or tent, as we called it, where 
we saw the three priests whom we mistook for butchers, we saw 
a light ; and going up close to the door, we heard people talking 
as if there were five or six of them ; we concluded, therefore, 
that if we set wildfire to the idol, these men would come out 
immediately, and run up to the place to rescue it from the de- 
struetion that we intended for it ; and what to do with thera we 
kuew not. Once we thought of carrying it away and settinir fire 
to it at a distance, but when we came to handle it, we found it 
too bulky for our carriage ; so we were at a loss again. The 
second Scotsman was for setting fire to the tent or hut, and 
knocking the creatures that were there on the head, when they 
came out; but I could not join with that; l was against killing 
them, if it were possible to avoid it. Well, then, said the Scois 
merchant, I will teil you what we will do : we will try to make 
them prisoners, tie their hands, and make them stand and see 
their idol destroyed. 

As it happened, we had twine or packthread enough about 
US, which we used to tie our firelocks altogether with : so we 
resolved to attack these people first, and with as little noise as 
we could. The first thing we did, we knocked at the door, when, 
one of the priests Coming to it, we immediately seized upon bim, 
stopped his mouth, and tied his hands behind bim, and led him 
to the idol, where we gagged Inm that he might not make a 
noise, tied his feet also together, and left him on the ground. 

Two of US then waited at the door, expecting that another 
would come out, to see what the matter was j but we waited so 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 423 

long tili the third man came back to us ; and then nobody Coming 
out, we knocked again gently, and immediately out came two 
more, and we servä thera just in the same manner, but were 
obliged to go all with them, and lay them down by the idol some 
distance from one another ; when, going back, we found two more 
were come out to the door, and a third stood behind them within 
the door. We seized the two, and immediately tied tliem, when 
the third stepping back, and crying out, my Scots merchant went 
in after him, and, taking out a composition we had made, that 
would only smoke and stink, he set fire to it and threw it in 
among them : by that time the other Scotsman and my man, taking 
Charge of the two men already bound, and tied together also by 
the arm, led them away to the idol, and left them there to see 
if their idol would relieve them, making haste back to us. 

When the furze we had thrown in had filled the hut with so 
much smoke that they were almost suffocated, we then threw 
in -u small leather bag of another kind, which flamed like a 
candle, and following it in, we foimd there were but four people, 
and, as we supposed, had been about some of their diabolical 
sacrifices. They appeared, in short, frightened to death, at least 
so as to sit trembling and stupid, and not able to speak neither, 
for the smoke. 

In a Word, we took therti, bound them as we had done the 
other, and all without any noise. I should have said we brou^ht 
them out of the house, or hut, first ; for indeed we were not able 
to bear the smoke any more than they were. When we had done 
this, we carried them altogether to the idol: when we came there 
we feil to work with him ; and first we daubed him all over, and 
his robes also, with tar, and such other stuff as we had, which 
was tallow mixed with brimstone: then we stopped his eyes and 
ears and mouth füll of gunpowder ; th«n we wrapped up a great 

Siece of wildfire in his bonnet ; and then sticking all the com- 
ustibles we had brought with us upon him, we looked about to 
see if we could find anything eise to help to bum him ; when my 
Scotsman remembered that by the tent, or hut, where the men 
were, there lav a heap of dry ibrage, whether straw or rushes I 
do not remember ; away he and the other Scotsman ran and 
fetched their arms füll of that. When we had done this, we took 
all our pnsoners, and brought them, having untied their feet and 
ungagged their moulhs, and made them stand up, and set them 
before their monstrous idol, and then set fire to the whole. 

We stayed by it a quarter of an hour, or thereabouts, tili the 
powder in the eyes and mouth and ears of the idol blew up, and, 
«8 we could perceive, had split and . deformed the shape of it : 
and, in a word, tili we saw it bumed into a mere block or log of 
wood ; and setting dry forage to it, wo found it would be soon 
quite coBsumed ; so we began to think of going away : but the 
-Scotsman said, No, we must not go, for these poor deluded 



424 ADVENTÜRES OP 

wretches wiD all throw themselves into tlie fire, and bam them- 
selyes with the idol. So we resolved to stay tili the forage 
was burt down too, and then carae away and left tbem. 

After the feat was performed, we appeared in the mommg 
among our feUow travellers, exceeding busy in getting ready for 
our joumey ; nor could any man suggest that we had been any 
where but in our beds, as travellers might be supposed to be, to 
fit themselves for the fatigues of the day's jouroey. 

But the affair did not end so : the next day came a great 
number of the country people to the town gates, and in a most 
outrageous manner demanded satisfaction of the Russian go- 
vemor for thef insulting their priests, and buming tbeir Cham 
Chi-Thaungu. The people of Nertzinskoi were at fi rst in a great 
consternation, for they said the Tartars were already no less than 
thirty thousand strong. The Russian govemor sent out mes- 
sengers to appease them, and gave them all the good words 
imaginable; assuring them that he knew nothing of it, and tllat 
there had not a soul in his garrison been abroad, so tbat it could 
not be from any body there ; but if they could let bim know who 
did it, they should be exemplarily punished. They retumed 
haughtily, that all the country reverenced the great Cham Chi- 
Thaungu, who dwelt in the sun, and no mortal would have dared 
to offer violence to his Image but some Christian miscreant ; and 
they therefore resolved to denounce war against bim and all the 
Russians, who, they said, were miscreants and Christians. 

The governor, still patient, and unwilling to make a breacli, 
or to have any cause of war alleged to be given by hira, the 
Czar having strictly charged them to treat the conquered countrv 
with gentleness and civility, gave them still all the good words 
he could. At last he told them there was a caravan gone towards 
Russia that morning, and perhaps it was some of them who had 
done them this injury ; and that if they would be satisfied with 
that, he would send after them to inquire into it. This seemed 
to appease them a little ; and accordingly the governor sent 
after us, and gave us a particular account how the tbing was; 
intimating withal, that if any in our caravan had done it, they 
should make their escape ; but that, whether we had done it or 
no, we should make all the haste forward that was possible ; and 
that, in the mean time, he would keep them in play as long as 
he could. 

This was very friendly in the govemor: however, when it 
came to the caravan, there was nobody knew any thing of the 
matter ; and as for us that were guilty, we were least of all 
suspected. However, the captain of the caravan for the time 
took the hint that the governor gave us, and we travelled two 
days and two nights without any considerable stop, and then 
we lay at a village called Plothus: nor did we make anv lone 
stop here, but hastened on towards Jarawena, another of the 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 425 

czar of Muscovy's colonies, and where we expected we should 
be safe. But lipon the second day's march from Plothus, by 
the clouds of dust behind us at a great distance, some of our 
people began to be sensible we were pursued. We had entered 
a great desert, and had passed by a great lake called Schaks 
Oser, when we perceived a very great body of horse appear on 
the other side of the lake, to the north, we travelling west. We 
observed they went away west, as we did, but had supposed we 
would have taken that side of the lake, whereas we very happily 
took the south side ; and in two days more they disappeared 
again : for they, believing we were stUl before them, pushed on 
tili they came to the river Udda, a very great river when it 
passes farther north, but when we came to it we found it narrow 
and fordable. 

The third day, they had either found their mistake, or had 
intelligence of us, and came pouring in upon us towards the 
dusk of the evening. We had, to our great satisfaction, just 
pitched upon a place for our camp, which was very convenient 
ibr the night ; for as we were upon a desert, though but at the 
beginning of it, that was above five hundred miles over, we had 
HO towns to lodge at, and, indeed, expected none but the city 
Jarawena, which we had yet two days' march to : the desert, 
bowever, had some few woods in it on this side, and little rivers, 
which ran all into the great river Udda ; it was in a narrow 
ätrait, between little but very thick woods, that we pitched 
our little camp for that night, expecting to be attacked before 
moming. 

Nobody knew but ourselves what we were pursued for : but 
as it was usual for the Mogul Tartars to go about in troops in 
that desert, so the caravans always fortify themselves every night 
against them, as against armies of robbers ; and it was therefore 
no new thing to be pursued. 

But we had this night, of all the nights of our travels, a most 
advantageous camp ; for we lay between two woods, with a little 
rivulet running just before our front, so that we could not be 
surrounded, or attacked any way but in our front or rear. We 
took care also to make our front as strong as we could, by 
placing our packs, with our cameis and horses, all in a line 
on the inside of the river, and felling some trees in our rear. 

In this posture we encamped for the night ; but the enemy 
was upon us before we had finished our Situation. They did 
not come on us like thieves, as we expected, but sent three 
messengers to us, to demand the men to be delivered to them 
that had abused their pries ts, and burned their god Cham Chi- 
Thaungu with fire, that they might burn them with fire ; and 
upon this, they said, they would go away, and do us no further 
härm, otherwise they would destroy us all. Our men looked 
very blank at this message, and began to starc at one another, 



426 ADVENTURES OP 

to See who looked with the most guilt in their faces: but, 
uobody was the word ; nobody did it. The leader of the Cara- 
van sent word he was well assured that it was not done by any 
of our camp ; that we were peaceable merchants, travelling on 
our business ; that we had done no härm to them or to any one 
eise ; and that, therefore, they must look farther for their ene- 
mies who had injured them, for we were not the people; so 
desired them not to disturb us, for, if they did. we shoold defend 
ourselves. 

They were far from being satisfied with this for an answer ; 
and a great crowd of them came running down in the moming 
by break of day, to our camp ; but seeing us in such an unac- 
countable Situation, they durst come no farther than the brock 
in our front, where they stood, and showed us such a number 
that indeed terrified us very much : for those that spoke least 
of them spoke of ten thousand. Here they stood and looked at 
US awhile, and then setting up a great howl, they let fly a doud 
of arrows among us ; but we were well enough fortified for that, 
for we sheltered under our baggage, and I do not remember that 
one of US was hurt. 

Some time after this, we saw them move a Uttle to our right, 
and expected them on the rear ; when a cunning fellow, a Cossack 
of Jarawena, in the pay of the Muscovites, calling to the leader 
of the Caravan, said to him, I'll go send all these people away to 
Siheilka : this was a city four or five days' joumey at least to the 
right, and rather behind us. So he takes bis bow and arrows, 
and getting on horseback, he rides away from our rear directly, 
as it were back to Nertzinskoi ; after this, he takes a great cir- 
cuit about, and comes directly on the army of the Tartars, as if 
he had been sent express to teil them a long story, that the 
people who had burned the Cham Chi-Thaungu were gone to 
Siheilka, with a caravan of miscreants, as he called them, that is 
to say, Christians ; and that they had resolved to bum the god 
Schal-lsar, belonging to the Tongueses. 

As this fellow was himself a mere Tartar, and perfectly spoke 
their language, he counterfeited so well, that they all took it 
from him, and away they drove in a mostviolent hurry to Siheilka, 
which, it seems, was five days' journey to the north ; and in less 
than three hours they were entirely out of our sight, and we 
never heard any more of them, nor whether they went to Siheilka 
or no. So we passed away safely on to Jarawena, where there 
was a garrison of Muscovites, and there we rested five days, the 
Caravan being exceedingly fatigued with the last day's hard 
march, and with want of rest in the night. 

From this city we had a frightftd desert, which held us twenty- 
three days' march. We ftirnished ourselves with some tents 
here, for the better accommodating ourselves in the night ; and 
the leader of the caravan procured sixteen carriages, or waggons 



ROBTNSON CRÜ80B. 



w 



of the coiiutrj, for carrying our water or pro^isions ; nnd tliese 
carriages were our defence, every nigliti round onr litüe camp ; 
BO that had the Tartars appeared, uuless thcy had bcen very 
numeroiia Indeed» they would not have beeu able tn hurt us. 

We may well be supposed tu want rcst agfain after this long 
joumey : für in tliia desert we neither saw house uor tree, and 
scarcc a busb ; tbough we Kaw abundance of tlie sable-lmnters, 
who are all Tartars of the Mogul Tartary, of vvbich this country 
ia a part; and they frequently attack snmU Caravans, but we saw 
HO numbers of them togetben 

After we had paased thia desert, we came into a conntry pretty 
well inbabited ; that is to sfty, ive found towns and Castles, settled 
by tbc czar of Muscovy, whh garrisons of stationary Boldiura, 
to protect the Caravans, and defend tbe country agamst the 
Tartars, who wonJd otherwise make it Tery dangerous travel- 
ling ; and Ins czarisb majesty bas givcu such atrict ordera for 
the well guardirig tbe caravans and raerchaiils, that, if liiere are 
aoy Tartars beard af in the country, detacbnients of tbe garri- 
SODS are always sent to see the travcllers safe from Station to 
Station. And thns the governor of Adiuskoy, wbom I had an 
opportiinity to niake a viäit to, by meaDs of tbe Scots nierchaut, 
"who was acqtiainted witb bim, olfered us a guard of tifty men, if 
we tbougbt diere was anj danger, to tbc next Station. 

I thaugbt, long before thi.s, that as we came nearer to Europe 
we should lind tlfie country better inhabited, and tbe people niore 
civilii&ed; but I found myself nüstaken in both : for we bad yet 
the nation of ihc Tongueses to pas» throngh, where we saw th« 
same tokens of paganism and barbarity as before ; ooly, as they 
wete conquered by the Muscovites, they were not so dangerous; 
bot for rudeness of manners, and idolatry, no people in the 
w orld ever went beyond them i th^y are cloibed all in skins of 
beasts, and their house» are built of tbe £ame ; you know not a 
man from a woman, neither by the ru^^gednesB of tbeir connte- 
nances nor tbeir clotbes ; and in the wmter, when the ground iä 
covered witb snow, they live Underground in vaulls, wMch bave 
cavities going from one to anoiher. 

If tbe Tartars had their Cham Chi-Tbanngu for a whole 
villa^e or country» theae had idols in every hut and every cave ; 
besides, they worship the stars, the sun, the water^ the snow, 
and, in a word, every thing they do not understand, and they 
understand but very little; so that every dement, every uncom- 
mon thing, sets them a sacrificing* 1 niet witb nothing peculiar 
to myself in all thiä country, which I reckon was, from the 
desert I spoke of last, at least four hundred miles, half of it 
being another desert, whieh took us up twelve days' severe 
travelling, without house or tree ; and we were obliged again 
to carry our owa provisions, as well water as bread After 
vre were out of this desert, and had travelled two days^ we 

FF 



428 ADVSNTURE« OF 

came to Janezay, a Muscovite dtj or Station on the great river 
Janezay (Yenisey), i!?hich, they told us there, parted Europe 
firom Asia. 

Here I observed ignorance and paganism still preyailed, ex* 
cept in the Muscovite garrisons ; all the conntiy between the 
river Oby and the river Janezay is as eutirely pagan, and the 
people as barbarous, as the remotest of the Tartars ; nay, as any 
nation, for aught I know, in Asia or America. I also fonnd, 
which I obserred to the Muscovite goveraors whom I had an 
opportunity to converse with, that the poor pagans are not 
much wiser, or nearer Christianity, for beine under the Miusco- 
vite ffovernment ; which they acknowledged was tnie enough : 
but uiat, as they said, was none of their business : that if the 
czar expected to convert his Siberian, Tonguese, or Tartar sub- 
jects, it should be done by sending clergymen among them, not 
soldiers : and, they added, with more sincerity than I expected, 
that they found it was not so much the concem of their monarch 
to make the people Christians as it was to make them subjects. 

From this river to the great river Oby, we crossed a wild 
oncultivated country, harren of people and good management ; 
otherwise it is in itself a most pleasant, fruitftd, and agreeable 
country. What inhabitants we found in it are all pagans, 
except such as are sent among them from Russia : for this is 
the country, I mean on both sides the river Oby, whither the 
Muscovite criminals that are not put to death are banished, and 
from wheuce it is next to impossible they should ever come away. 

I have nothiug material to say of my particular a£&drs tili I 
came to Tobolski, the capital city of Siberia, where 1 continued 
some time on the following occasion. 

We had now been almost seven months on our joumey, and 
winter began to come on apace ; whereupon my partner and I 
called a Council about our particular affairs, in which we found 
it proper, as we were bound for England, and not for Moscow, 
to consider how to dispose of ourselves. They told us of 
sledges and reindeer to carry us over the suow in the winter 
time ; and, indeed, they have such things that it would be in- 
credible to relate the particulars of, by which means the Russians 
travel more in the winter than they can in summer, as in these 
sledges they are able to run night and day: the snow being 
frozen, is one universal covering to nature, by which the hills, 
vales, rivers, and lakes are all smooth and hard as a stone, 
and they run upon the surface, without any regard to what is 
imderneath. 

But I had no occasion to" push at a winter joumey of this 
kind ; I was bound to England, not to Moscow, and my route 
lay two ways : either I must go on as the caravan went, tili I 
came to Jaroslaw, and then go off west for Narva, and the gulf 
of Finland, and so to Dantzic, where I might possibly seil my 



Cliinft caTgo to good advantage ; or I raust leav© tbe caravan at 
a liLÜe town on the Dwina, from wheace I had bot aix days by 
water to Arebantrel, and from thence migbt be sure of ßbipping 
eitber to England, Holland, or Hamburg^ 

Now, to go any of tbese journeys in the winter would bave 
been preposterous : for as to Dantzic, tbe BaLtic would liave been 
frozen up, and I could not get passage ; and to go by land in 
tbose countries was far lesa safe tban ainong tbe Mogul Tartars: 
likewifie, to go to Arcbaiigel in October, all tbe ships would be 
^niG from tbence, and even tlie mercbanta who dwell there in 
Buiumer retire soutb to Moscow in the wi titer, wben tbe sliipa 
are gone ; so tbat I could bave notbiug but extremity of coid 
to encounter, with a scarcity of provisions, and must üe in an 
empty town all tbe winter : so that^ upon the wbole, I tbougbt 
it mncb my better way to let the caravan go, and make Provi- 
sion to winter wbere l was, at Tobolski, in Siberia, in tbe lati- 
tude of about sixty degreesj wbere I was sure of tbree things to 
wear out a cold winter with, viz. plenty of proviaiona, auch as 
tlie couiitry afforded, a warm bouse^ witb fuel enough, and 
excellent Company. 

1 waa now in a quite difTerent climate from my beloved i&land, 
wbere I never feit cold, except when I had my ague j on the 
contrary, I had mucb to do to bear any clotbea on my back, and 
never made any fire but witb out doors» wbicb waa necessary for 
dressin g my food, &c, Now 1 made me tbree good vests, with 
large robes or gowna over thera, to bang down to the feet, and 
button close totbewrists; and all tkeae Iined with fürs, tomake 
them aufficiently warm. 

As to a warm bousc, I mnst confeas I greatly disliked our 
way in England of making firea in every room in the bouse in 
opiin chimneys, wbich, wben tbe fire was out, always kept the 
aiT in the room cold as tbe climate ; but taking an apartine nt in 
a good house in tbe town, I ordered a chimney to be built like 
a mrnace, in tbe centre of six aeveral rooms, like a stove ; the 
fiinnel to carry the amoke went up one way, tbe door to come 
at the fire went in anotber, and all the rooma were kept equally 
warm, but no ßre aeen, just aa they heat tbebao^ios in England. 
By this means, we had always the same climate in all tbe rooms, 
and an et^nal heat was preserved ; and how cold soever it wag 
witbout, it was alwaya warm witbin : and yet we saw no Ate, 
nor were ever incommoded witb araLoke. 

The most wonderfiil tbing of all was, tbat it ahould be poasi- 
blc to raeet with good eonipany herc, in a country so barbarous 
03 tbat of the moat nortberly parts of Europc, near the frozen 
ocean, witbin but a very few degreca of Nova Zembia, But this 
being tbe country where tbe st4ite criminals of Äluscovy, as 1 
obaervcd before, are all banisbed, tbia city was füll of noblemen, 
gCDtlemen, soldiers, and courticrs of Muacovy. Here was the 
Fp J 



430 ADVSMTUKES OF 

famous prince Gallitzeu, the old general Robostiski, and several 
other persons of note, and some ladies. By means of my Scots 
merchant, whom, uevertbeless, I parted with here, I made an 
acquaintance with several of these gentlemen ; and fr om tbese, 
in the long winter nights in which I stayed here, I received seve- 
ral veiy agreeable visits» 

It was talking 'one night with Prince > one of the 

banished ministers of state belonging to the czar of Muscovy, 
that the discourse of my particular case began. He had been 
telling me abundance of fine things of the greatness, the mag- 
nificence, the dominions, and the absolute power of the emperor 
of the Russians : I interrupted him, and told him I was a greater 
and more powerful prince than even the czar of Muscovy was, 
though my dominions were not so large, or my people so many. 
The Russian grandee looked a little surprised, and fixing his 
eyes steadily upon me, began to wonder what I meant. I told 
him his wonder would cease when I had explained mysel£ 
First, I told him I had absolute disposal of the lives and fortunes 
of all my subjects ; that, notwithstanding my absolute power, 
I had not one persou disaffected to my govemment, or to my 
person, in all my dominions. He shook his head at that, and 
Said, There, indeed, I outdid the czar of Muscovy. I told him 
that all the lands in my kingdom were my own, and all my sub- 
jects were not only my tenants, but tenants at will ; that they 
would all fight for me to the last drop ; and that never tyrant, 
for such I acknowledged myself to be, was ever so universally 
beloved, and yet so horribly feared by his subjects. 

After amusing him with these riddles in govemment for a 
while, I opened the case, and told him the story at large of my 
living in the island ; and how I mwiaged both myself and the 
people that were under me, just as I have since minuted it 
down. They were exceedingly taken with the story, and 
especially the prince, who told me, with a sigh, that the true 
greatness of life was to be masters of ourselves ; that he would 
not have exchanged such a state of life as mine to be czar of 
Muscovy ; and that he found more felicity in the retirement he 
seemed to be banished to there, than ever he found in the 
highest authority he enjoyed in the courtof his master the czar; 
that the height of human wisdom was to brin^ our tempers 
down to our circumstauces, and to make a calm within, under 
the weight of the greatest storms without. When he came 
first hither, he said he used to tear the hair from his head, and 
the clothes from his back, as others had done hefore him ; but t 
little time and consideration had made him look into himself, as 
well as round him, to things without : that he found the nund of 
man, if it was but once brought to reflect upon the state of uni- 
versal life, and how little this world was concerned in its true 
felicity, was perfectly capable of making a felicity for itself, fiilly 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 



431 



satisfying to itself, and suitable to ita oim hest onds aiid deßires» 
witli but very Utile assistjince from tke world : the air to breatlie 
in, food to sustain life, clothes tbr warmth^ and liberty for exer- 
eise, in order to heiiltb, completed, in hh opinion, all that the 
World could do for iis ; and thougli the greatness, the autliority, 
the riches, and the pleasures wbich aome enjoyed in the world^ 
had mnch in tbem that was agreeable to ns, yet all tbose tbinga 
chiefly gratified the coarsest of our afifections, such as our am- 
bition, our partif;ular pride, avarice, vanity, and sensnality; all 
whicbj being the mere product ot' tlie worst part of man, werein 
tbemselves crimefi, and bad in them the seeds of all manner of 
crimes ; but neither were related to, nor concerned mtb, any of 
tbose virtues that constitnted us wise men, or of those g^races 
that distingnished iis aa Christians ; that bein«; now deprivcd of 
all the faucied felicity whicb he enjoyed in the füll exe reise of 
all those vices, he said he was at leisure to look upon the dark 
aide of them, where he found all manner of deforrnity, and waa 
now convinced that ^-irtiie only makes a man truly wiso, rieh, 
and great, and preserves bim in the w ay to a siiperior bappiness 
in a tiiture State ; and in this, he said, they were moro happy in 
their banishment than all their enemie^ were, who had the füll 
posseaaion of all the wealth and power they had left behind 
them. Nor, air, says be, do I bring my mitid to this politically, 
by the uecessity of my clrcumstances, whieh some call miser- 
able ; but, if 1 know any thing of myself^ l would not now go 
back, thouo^h the czar my raaster should call me, and reinstate 
me in all my for in er grandeur : I say, I wonld no more go baek 
to it than 1 believe my soiil, when it shail be delivered from thi« 
prison of the body» and haa had a taste of ihe glorious State 
beyond life, would come back to the gaol of llesb and bkwd it 
is novT enclosed in, and leave hea\ en, to deal in the dirt and 
crime of human afiTairs. 

He spoke this wifch so much warmth in bis temper, so much 
earoestnesa and motion of his spints, that it was evident it was 
the true sense of his soid ; tliere was no room to doubt his sin- 
cerity, I told him I once t)iong:ht niyself a kind of monarch in 
my old Station^ of wbich I had given him an account ; but that 
I thought he was not only a moiiarcb, but a great conciucmr : 
for that he that has got a victory over hm own exorbitant aeaires, 
and the absolute dominion over him seif, whose reason entireJy 
governs hin will, is certainly greiiter than be that conquers fi 
city» But, my lorJ, said I, shall I takc the liberty to ask you a 
queation ?^With all my hcart, savs he. If the door of your 
liberty was opened, said i, would you not tnke hold of it to 
deliver you from thia exile?— Hold, snid he, your question is 
subtile, and requires some serious, just distinctionB, to give it a 
aineerc ans wer; and I will give it you from the bottom of my 
heart« Nothiug that I know of in this World, would mo^e mo 



432 ADVENTUBES 09 

to ddiver myself from this State of banishment, except these 
two; first, the enjoyment of my relations; and, secondly, aiitde 
wanner dimate : bat I protest to you, that to go back to the 
pomp of the court, the glory, the power, the hurry of a minister 
of State ; the wealth, the gaiety, and the pleasures of a courti«; 
if my master should send me word this moment that he restores 
me to all he banished me from, I protest, if I know myscJf at 
all, I would not leave this wildemess, these deserts, and these 
frozen lakes, for the palace at Moscow. — Bat, my lord, said I, 
perhaps yoa not only are banished from the pleasures of the 
coart, and from the power, aathority, and wealth you enjoyed 
before, bat yoa may be absent too from some of the conve- 
niences of life; yoar estate, perhaps, confiscated, and your effects 
plandered ; and the sappUes left you here may not be suitable 
to the ordinary demands of life. — Ay, says he, that is as you 
suppose me to be a lord, or a prince, &c. ; so, indeed, I am; bat 
you are now to consider me only as a man, a human creatuie, 
not at all distinguished from another ; and so I can sufifer no 
want, unleas I should be yisited with sickness and distempen. 
However, to put the question out of dispute, you see our man- 
ner': we are, in this place, five persons of rank ; we live perfectly 
retired, as suited to a State of banishment ; we have something 
rescued from the shipwreck of our fortunes, which keeps us from 
the mere necessity of hunting for food ; but the poor soldiers, 
who are here without that help, hve in as much plenty as we, 
who go into the woods and catch sables and foxes : the laboor 
of a month will maintain them a year ; and, as the way of living 
is not expensive, so it is not hard to get sufficient to ourselves. 
So that objection is out of doors. 

I have not room to give a füll account of the most agreeable 
conversation I had with this truly great man ; in all which he 
showed that his mind was so inspired with a superior knowledge 
of things, so supported by religion, as well as by a vast share of 
wisdom, that his contempt of the world was really as much as 
he had expressed, and that he was always the same to the last, 
as will appear in the story I am going to teil. 

I had been here eight months, and a dark, dreadful winter I 
thought it ; the cold so intense that I could not so much as lock 
abroad without being wrapped in fürs, and a mask of für before 
my face, or rather a hood, with only a hole for breath, and two 
for sight : the little daylight we had was, as we reckoned, for 
three months, not above five hours a day, and six at most ; only 
that the snow lying on the ground continually, and the weather 
clear, it was never quite dark. Our horses were kept, or rather 
starved, Underground, and as for our servants, whom we hired 
here to look after ourselves and horses, we had, every now and 
then, their fingers send toes to thaw and take care of, lest they 
should mortüy and fall off. 




nOBINSON CRC 

It is true» witliin doors \vc wert warm, Üie bousea being dose, 
tbe wallä tbick, the liglits small, and thc glass all double, Oiir 
food was cMcfly tlie flesli of deer, driedand cured in tbe season ; 
bread good enough, but baked an biscuita ; dried fisb of several 
sorts, and some flesb of mutton aod of the buHkloes» whicb is 
pretty good meat. All tbe stores of provisions for tbe wtnter 
are laid tip in tbe siimmer, and well cured : our drink was 
Water^ raixed witb aqua-vitse instead of brandy ; and for a treat, 
inead instead of wim*, wbicb, however, they liave excellent good. 
Tbe buAlera, wbo venture abroad all weatbers, fretiTicnlly 
brougbt US in fine \ enison, and sometlmes bear's liesb» biit we 
did not mach care for tbe last* We bad a good stock of tea, 
witb whicb we fcreated onr firiends, as above, audwe iiyed very 
cheerfüUy and iiell, all tliings considered. 

It was now Marcb^ tbe days gp-own considerably lon^^er, and 
the wcatber at leiist tolerable; so the otber travellers beg^an to 
prepare sledgea to carry tliem over tbe snow, and to get tbingä 
ready to he grointj : but my meaaures beiag fixed, a« 1 bave said^ 
for Archangelj and not Ibr Muscovy or tbe Baltic^ I made no 
motion ; knowing very well that tbe sbips frora the soutb do 
not set out for tbat part of tbe world tili May or June, and that 
if l was tbere by tbe beginning of Augusä;, it would be as soon 
as Any sliips would be ready to go away ; and tlierefore I made 
no haste to be gone, as otbers did i in a word, I saw a great 
many people, nay, all tbe travellers, go away before me. It 
Äcems, every year tbey go from tbence to Museovy for trade, 
viz, to carry fnra^ and buy neceasaries, whicb tbey bring back 
witb tbem to furnish tbeir slioptä : also olliera went oa tbe same 
errand to Arcbangel ; but tben tbey all bein^ to come back 
again, above eigbt bundred miles^ wcut all out before me. 

In the montb of May 1 began to make all ready to pack up; 
and, as I wa^ doing tbii?, it occurrcd to me tbat, seetng all tbese 
people werc banished by the Czar of Muscovy to Siberia, and 
yet, wben they came tbere, were left at liberty to go whitber 
they wouldj why tbey did not tben go aw ay to any part of the 
World, wherever they thougbtfit; and I began to examine what 
Bhould binder thcra fi-om making such an attempt, But my 
wonder was over wheu I entered lipon that subjcct with the 
person I have mentioned, who anawered me tbus: Consider, 
first, sir, said he, tbe place where we are ; and, secondly, the 
conditioa we are in ; especially the generality of tbe people who 
are banisbcd hither. We are surroiinded witb stronger things 
Ihau bars or bolts * on tbe north side an unnavigable ocean, 
where ship nevcr sailedi and boat never swara ; every other 
way» we bave above a tbouaand miles topass thrcnigb tbe ezar'a 
own dominions, and by ways utterly impassablCj except by the 
roadfl made by the government, and througb the towns 
garrisoned by his troops; so that we could neither pass nndis- 



434 ADVENTÜRES OF 

covered by thc road, nor gubsist any otlier way : so that it is in 
Tain to attempt it. 

1 was silenced, indeed, at once, and foond that tbey were in 
a prisou every jot as secure as if they had been locked up in the 
Castle at Moscow : however, it came into my tboughts that 
I might certainly be made an instrument to procure the escape 
of this excellent person ; and that, whatever hazard I ran, 
I would certainly try if I could carry him off. Upon this I took 
an occasion, one evening, to teil him my thoughts. I repre- 
sented to him that it was very easy for me to carry him away, 
there being no guard over him in the country ; and as I was not 
going to Moscow, but to Archangel, and that I went in the 
retinue of a caravan, by which I was not obliged to lie in the 
stationary towns in the desert, but could encamp every night 
where I would, we might easüy pass unintemipted to Arch- 
angel, where I would immediately secure him on board an 
English ship, and carry him safe along with me ; and as to his 
subsistence, and other particulars^ it should be my care, tili he 
could better supply himself. 

He heard me very attentively, and looked eamestly on me 
all the while I spoke ; najr, I could see in his very face that 
what I Said put his spirits mto an exceeding ferment : his colour 
frequently changed, his eyes looked red, and his heart fluttered, 
that it might be eveu perceived in his countenance ; nor could 
he immediately answer me when I had done, and as it were 
hesitated what he would say to it : but after he had paused a 
little, he embraced me, and said, How unhappy are we, un- 
guarded creatures as we are, that even our greatest acts of 
frieridship are made snares unto us, and we are made tempters 
of one another ! My dear friend, said he, your offer is so sin- 
cere, has such kindness in it, is so disinterested in itself, and is 
so calculated for my advantage, that I must have very little 
knowledge of the world if I did not both wonder at it, and ac- 
knowledge the Obligation I have upon me to you for it. But did 
you believe I was sincere in what I have often said to you of 
my contempt of the world ? Did you believe I spoke my very 
soul to you, and that I had really obtainedthat degree of felicity 
here that had placed me above all that the world could give me? 
Did you believe I was sincere when I told you I would not go 
back, if I was recalled even to be all that I once was in the 
court, with the favour of the czar my master ? Did you believe 
me, my friend, to be an honest man ; or did you believe me to 
be a boasting hypocrite? Here he stopped, as if he would hear 
what I would say ; but, indeed, I soon after perceived that he 
stopped because his spirits were in motion, his great heart was 
füll of struggles, and he could not go on. I was, I confess, 
astonished at the thing as well as at the man, and I used some 
arguments with him to urge him to set himself free ; that he 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 435 

oaght to look upon this as a door opened bv Heaven for his de 
liverance, and a summons by Providence, wno has the care and 
disposition of all events, to do himself good, and to render him-' 
seif useful in the world. 

He had by this tiipe recovered himself: How do you know, 
sir, says he, warmly, but that, instead of a summons from 
Heaven, it may be a feint of another instrument ; representing 
in alluring colours to me the show of felicity as a deliverance, 
which may in itself be my snare, and tend directly to my ruin ? 
Here I am free from the temptation of returning to my former 
miserable greatness ; there I am not sure but that all the seeds 
of pride, ambition, ayarice, and luxury, which I know remain in 
näture, may revive and take root, and, in a word, again overwhelm 
me ; and then the happy prisoner, whom you see now master of 
his soul's liberty, shall be the miserable slave of his o\^ senses, 
in the füll of all personal liberty. Dear sir, let me remain in this 
blessed confinement, banished from the crimes of life, rather than 
purchase a show of freedom at the expense of the liberty of my 
reason, and at the future . happiness which I now have in my 
view, but shall then, I fear, quickly lose sight of : for I am but 
flesh; a man, a mere mau; have passions and affections as 
likely to possess and overthrow me as any man : O be not my 
friend and tempter both together ! 

If I was surprised before, I was quite dumb now, and stood 
silent, looking at him, and, indeed, admiring what I saw. The 
struggle in his soul was so great, that though the weather was 
extremely cold, it put him into a most violent sweat, and I found 
he wanted to give vent to his mind ; so I said a word or two, that 
I would leave him to consider of it, and wait on him again, and 
then I withdrew to my own apartment. 

About two hours after, I heard somebody at or near the door 
of my room, and I was going to open the door, but he had opened 
it and came in. My dear friend, says he, you had almost 
overset me, but I am recovered. Do not take it ill that I do not 
close with your offer ; I assure you it is not for want of sense oi 
the kindness of it in you ; and I came to make the most sincere 
acknowledgment of it to you ; but I hope I have got the >dctory 
over myself. — My lord, said I, I hope you are füll v satisfied that 
YOU do not resist the call of Heaven. — Sir, said he, if it had 
oeen from Heaven, the same power would have influenced me 
to have accepted it : but I hope, and am fully satisfied, that it is 
from Heaven that I declined it ; and I have infinite satisfaction 
in the parting, that you shall leave me an honest man stül, 
though not a free man. 

I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make professions 
to him of my haviug no end in it but a sincere desire to serve 
hJm. He embraced me very passionately, and assiired me he 
was sensible of that, and sliould always acknowledge it ; and 



436 ADYENTTURES OF 

vrith that he offered me a yery fine present of sables, too much, 
indeed, for me to accept from a man in his circumstances, and 
I wouLd have avoided them, but he would not be reflised. 

The next morning I sent my servant to his lordship with a 
small present of tea, and two pieces of China damask, and fonr 
little wedges of Japan gold, which did not all weigh above six 
ounces or thereabout, but were far short of the yalue of his 
sables, which, when I came to England, I found worth near 
two hundred pounds. He accepted the tea, and one piece of 
the damask, and one of the pieces of gold, which had a fine 
stamp upon it, of the Japan comage, which I found he took for 
the rarity of it, but would not take any more ; and he sent word 
by my servant that he desired to speak with me. 

When I came to him, he told me I knew what had passed 
between us, and hoped I would not move him any more in that 
afEair ; but that, since I had made such a generous ofPer to him, 
he asked me if 1 had kindness enough to offer tbef^ same to 
another person that he would name to me, in whom he had a 
^at share of concem. I told him that I could not say I 
mclined to do so much for any but himself, for whom I had a 
particular yalue, and should have been glad to have been the 
Instrument of bis deliverance ; however, if he would please to 
name the person to me, I would giye him my answer. He told 
me it was his only son ; who, though I had not seen him, yet 
he was in the same condition with himself, and above two 
hundred miles from him, on the other side the Oby ; but that, if 
I consented, he would send for him. 

I made no hesitation, but told bim I would do it. I made 
some ceremony in letting him understand that it was wholly on 
his account ; and that seeing I could not prevail on him, I would 
show my respect to him by my concern for his son : but these 
things are too tedious to repeat here. He sent away the next 
day for his son ; and in about twenty days he came back with 
the messenger, bringing six or seven horses loaded with very 
rieh fürs, and which, in the whole, amounted to a very great 
value. His servants brought the horses into the town, but left 
the young lord at a distance tili night, when he came incognito 
into our apartment, and his father presented him to me, and, in 
short, we concerted the manner of our travelling, and every thing 
proper for the joumey. 

I had bought a considerable quantity of sables, black fox-skins, 
fine ermines, and such other fürs as are very rieh, in that city, 
in exchange for some of the goods I had brought from China : in 
particular for the cloves and nutmegs, of which I sold the 
greatest part here, and the rest afterward at Archangel, for a 
much better price than I could have got at London ; and my 
partner, who was sensible of the profit, and whose business 
more particularly than mine was merchandise, wras mightüy 



AOBINSON CEU80E. 437 

pleased m^itli onr staj, on account of the traffic we made 
nere. 

It was the be^ning of June when I left tbis remote place, a 
dty, I believe, bttle beard of in tbe world ; and, indeed, it is so 
fax out of tbe road of commerce, tbat I know not bow it sbould 
be mucb talked of We were now reduced to a very small 
Caravan, baving only tbirty-two borses and cameis in all, and all 
of tbem p^sed for mine, tbougb my new guest was proprietor 
of eleven of tbem : it was most natural also tbat I sbould take 
nxore servants witb me tban I bad before ; and tbe young lord 

fassed for roy steward: wbat great man I passed for myself 
know not, neitber did it concern me to inquire. We bad bere 
tbe worst and tbe largest desert to pass over tbat we met witb 
in cur wbole joumey ; I call it tbe worst, because tbe way was 
Tery deep in some places, and very imeven in otbers ; tbe best 
vre bad to say for it was, tbat we tbougbt we bad no troops of 
Tartars or robbers to fear, and tbat tbey never came on tbis 
fiide tbe river Oby, or at least but very seldom ; but we foimd 
it otberwise. 

My young lord bad a faitbful Muscovite, or ratber a Siberian 
servant, wbo was perfectlv acquainted witb tbe country, and led 
US by private roads, so tbat we avoided Coming into tbe prin- 
cipal towns and cities upon tbe great road, sucb as Turnen, 
Solo^ Kamskoi, and several otbers ; because tbe Muscovite 
gamsons wbicb are kept tbere are very curious and strict in 
tbeir Observation upon travellers, and searcbing lest anv of tbe 
banisbed persons of note sbould make tbeir escape tbat way 
into Muscovy ; but by tbis means, as we were kept out of tbe 
cities, so our wbole joumey was a desert, and we were obliged 
to encamp and lie in our tents, wben we migbt bave bad very 
ffood accommodation in tbe cities on tbe way : tbis tbe young 
lord was so sensible of, tbat be would not allow us to lie abroad 
when we came to several cities on tbe way, but lay abroad bim- 
seif, witb bis servant, in tbe woods, and met us always at the 
appointed places. 

We were just entered Europe, baving passed tbe river Kama, 
wbicb in ibese parts is tbe boundary between Europe and Asia, 
and tbe first dty on tbe European side was called Soloy Kam- 
skoi, wbicb is as mucb as to say, tbe great city on tbe river 
Kama ; and bere we tbougbt to see some evident alteration in 
the people ; but we were mistaken : for as we bad a vast desert 
to pass, wbicb is near seven bundred miles long in some places, 
but not above two bundred miles over where we passed it, so, 
tili we came past tbat borrible place, we found very little difer- 
ence between that country and tbe Mogul Tartary : tbe people 
are mostly pagans, and little better tban tbe savages of America ; 
tbeir bouses and towns füll of idols, and tbeir way of living 
wholly barbarous, except in tbe cities, as above, and me villages 



438 ADVENTÜRES OT 

near them, wliere they are Christians, as they call tliemselves, 
of the Greek church ; but haye their religion mingled with so 
many relics of superstition, that it is scarce to be known in some 
places from mere sorcery and witcbcraft. 

In passing this forest, I tbougbt, indeed, we miist (after all onr 
dangers were to onr imagination escaped, as before) have been 
plundered and robbed, and perhaps murdered, by a troop of 
thieves : of what country they were I am yet at a loss to know, 
but they were all on horseback, carried bows and arrows, and 
were at first about forty-five in number : they came so near to 
US as to be within two musket shots, and asking no questions, 
surrounded us with their horses, and looked very eamestly 
upon US twice : at length they placed themselves just in our 
way ; upon which we drew up in a little line, before our cameis, 
being not above sixteen men in all ; and being drawn up thos, 
we halted, and sent out the Siberian servant, who attended his 
lord, to see who they were : his master was the more willin^ to 
let him go, because he was not a little apprehensive that tlbey 
were a Siberian troop sent out after him. The man came up 
near them with a flag of truce, and called to them; but 
though he spoke several of their languages, or dialects of lan- 
guages rather, he could not understand a word they said : how- 
ever, after some signs to him not to come nearer to them, at his 
peril, the fellow came back no wiser than he went : only thatby 
their dress, he said, he believed them to be some Tartars of 
Kalmuck, or of the Circassian hordes, and that there must be 
more of them upon the great desert, though he had never heard 
that any of them were seen so far north before. 

About an hour after, they ao;ain made a motion to attack us, 
and rode round our little wood to see where they might break 
in ; but finding us always ready to face them, they went off 
again ; and we resolved not to stir for that night. 

This was small comfort to us ; however, we had no remedy : 
there was on our left band, at about a quarter ofamile distance, 
a little grove, and very near the road ; I immediately resolved 
we should advance to those trees, and fortify ourselves as well 
as we could there : for, first, I considered that the trees would 
in a great measure cover us from their arrows ; and, in the 
next place, they could not come to Charge us in a body : it was, 
indeed, my old Portuguese pilot who proposed it, and who had 
this excellency attending him, that he was always readiest and 
most apt to direct and encourage us in cases of the most danger. 
We advanced immediately, with what speed we could, and gained 
that little wood ; the Tartars, or thieves, for we knew not what 
to call them, keeping their stand, and not attempting to hinder 
US. When we came thither, we found, to our great satisfaction, 
that it was a swampy piece of ground, and on the one side a 
very great spring of water, which running out in a little brook 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 439 

Was, a little farther, joined by anotber of tbe like size ; and was^ 
in Short, tbe source of a considerable river, called afterwards tbe 
Wirtska : tbe trees wbicb grew about tbis spring werenot above 
two bnndred, but very large, and stood pretty tbick, so tbat as 
8oon as we got in we saw ourselves perfectlv safe trom tbe 
ememy, unless thev attacked us on foot. 

Wnile we stayed bere waiting tbe motion of tbe enemy some 
hours, witbout perceiving tbey made any movement, our Por- 
tuguese, witb some belp, cut several arms of trees balf off, and 
laid tbem banging across from one tree to anotber, and in a 
manner fenced us in. About two bours before nigbt tbey came 
down directly upon us : and tbougb we bad not perceived it, 
we found tbey bad been joined by some more of tbe same, so 
tbat tbey were near fourscore borse ; wbereof, bowever, we 
fiuicied some were women. Tbey came on tili tbey were witbin 
lialf sbot of our little wood, wben we fired one musket witbout 
ball, and called to tbem in tbe Russian tongue to know wbat 
tbey wanted, and bade tbem keep off; but tbejr came on witb 
a double fury up to tbe wood side, not imagining we were so 
barricaded tbat tbey could not easily break in. Our old pilot 
was our captain, as well as our engin eer, and desired us not to 
fire upon tbem tili tbey came witbin pistol-sbot, tbat we migbt 
be sure to kill ; and tbat wben we did fire, we sbould be sure 
to take good aim : we bade bim give tbe word of command, 
wMcb be delayed so long, tbat tbey were some of tbem witbin 
two pikes^ lengtb of us wben we let fly. We airoed so true tbat 
we küled fburteen of tbem, and wounded several otbers, as also 
several of tbeir borses ; for we bad all of us loaded our pieces 
witb two or tbree bullets at least. 

Tbey were terribly surprised witb our fire, and retreaied 
immediately about one bundred rods from us, in wbicb time we 
loaded our pieces again, and seeing tbem keep tbat distance, 
we sallied ouf^ and catcbed four or five of tbeir borses, wbose 
riders we supposed were küled : and Coming up to tbe dead, we 
judged tbey were Tartars, but knew not bow tbeyoame to make 
an excursion of sucb an unusual lengtb. 

We slept little, you may be sure, but spent tbe most part of 
the nigbt in strengtbening our Situation, and barricading tbe 
entrances into tbe wood, and keeping a strict watcb. We waited 
for dayligbt, and wben it came, it gave us a very unwelcome 
discovery, indeed : for tbe enemy, wbo we tbougnt were dis- 
couraged witb tbe reception tbey met witb, were now greaü^ 
increased, and bad set up eleven or twelve huts or tents, as if 
tbey were resolved to besiege us : and tbis little camp tbey bad 
pitdied upon tbe open piain, about tbree (^uarters of a mile 
nrom us. We were, inde^, surprised at tbis discovery ; and now, 
I confess, I gave myself over for lost, and all tbat I bad ; tbe loss 
of my effects did not lie so near me, tbougb very considerable, 



440 ADVENTURES OF 

as the tbouglits of falling into the hands ot sncH barbarians, at 
the latter end of my journey, after so manjr difficulties and 
hazards as I had gone through, and even in sight of our port, 
where we expected safety and deliverance. As to my partner, 
he was raging, and declared that. to lose bis goods would be bis 
ruin, and that be woiild ratber die tban be starved ; and be was 
for fighting to tbe last drop. 

Tbe youug lord, as gallant as eyer flesb sbowed itself, was for 
fighting to tbe last also ; and my old pilot was of tbe opinion 
that we were able to resist tbem all in tbe Situation wewerethen 
in ; and thus we spent tbe dav in debates of wbat we sbould do: 
but towards evening we founa that tbe nnmber of our enemies 
still increased, and we did not know but by tbe moming tbey 
might be a still greater number : so I began to inquire ofthose 
people we had brougbt from Tobolski, if there were no priyate 
ways, by which we might avoid tbem m tbe night, and perbaps 
retreat to some town, or get help to guard us over tbe desert 
Tbe Siberian, wbo was servänt to tbe young lord, told us, if we 
designed to avoid tbem, and not figbt, be would engage to carry 
US off in tbe night, to a way that went north, towards the rlTer 
Petrou, by which be made no question but we might get away, 
and tbe Tartars never the wiser : but, be said, bis lord had told 
bim be would not retreat, but would ratber choose to figbt I 
told bim be mistook bis lord ; for that be was too wise a man to 
love fighting for tbe sake of it ; and that I knew bis lord was 
brave enougb, by wbat he had sbowed already ; but that his 
lord knew better tban to desire seventeen or eigbteen men to 
figbt five hundred, unless an unavoidable necessity forced tbem 
to it ; and that, if be tbought it possible for us to escape in the 
night, we had nothing eise to do but to attemptit. He answered, 
if bis lordship gave him such Orders be would lose bis life if he 
did not perform it : we soon brought bis lord to give that order, 
though privately, and we immediately prepared for tbe putting 
it in practice. 

And, first, as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled a firein 
our little camp, which we kept buming, and prepared so as to 
make it buru all night, that the Tartars might conclude we were 
still there ; but as soon as it was dark, and we could see the 
Stars (for our guide would not stir before), baving all our borses 
and cameis ready loaded, we followed ournew guide, wbo I soon 
foimd steered himself by tbe north star. 

After we had travelled two hours very bard, it began to be 
lighter still ; not that it was quite dark all night, but tbe moon 
began to rise, so that, in short, it was ratber ligbter tban we 
wished it to be; but by six o'clock tbe next moming we were 
got above thirty miles, having almost spoiled our borses. Here 
we found a Russian village, named Kermazinskoy, wbere we 
rested, and beard nothing of tbe Kalmuck Tartars that day. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 441 

Abont two hotirs before night we set out again, and travelled 
tili eight the next morning, though not quite so hard as before; 
and about seven o'clock we passed a little river, called Kirtza, 
and came to a good large town inhabited by Russians, called 
Ozomoys: there we heard that several troops of Kalmücke had 
been abroad upon the desert, but that we were now completely 
out of danger of them, which was to our great satisfaction. 
Here we were obliged to get some fresh horses ; and having 
need enough of rest, we stayed five days ; and my partner and 
I agreed to give the honest Siberian who brought us thither the 
value of ten pistoles. 

In five days more we came to Veuslima, upon the river 
Wirtzogda, and running into the Dwina : we were there, very 
happily, near the end of our travels by land, that river being 
navigable, in seven days' passage, to Archangel. From hence 
we came to Lawrenskoy the 3d of July ; and providing ourselves 
with two luggage boats, and a bärge for our own convenience, 
we embarked the 7th, and arrived aU safe at Archangel the 18th; 
having'been a year, five months, and three davs on the joumey, 
including our stay of eight months at Tooolski. We were 
obliged to stay at this place six weeks for the arrival of the 
ships, and must have tarried longer, had not a Hamburgher 
come in above a month sooner than any of the English ships : 
when, after some consideration that the city of Hamburgh might 
happen to be as good a market for our goods as London, we all 
took freight with him ; and, httving put our goods on board, it 
was most natural for me to put my Steward on board to take 
care of them : by which means my young lord had a sufficient 
opportunity to conceal hifliself, never coming on shore again all 
the time we stayed thore ; and this he did that he might not be 
Seen in the city, where some of the Moscow merchants would 
certainly have seen and discovered him. 

We then set sailfrom Archangel the 20th of August, the same 
year ; and after do extraordinary bad voyage, arrived safe in the 
Elbe the 18th of September. Here my partner and I found a 
very good sale for our goods, as well those of China as the 
sables, &c. of Siberia ; and dividing the produce, my share 
amounted to three thousand four hundred and seventy-five 
pounds seventeen Shillings and threepence, including about six 
hundred pounds' worth of diamonds which I purchased at 
Bengal. 

Here the yoimg lord took his leave of us, and went up the 
Elbe, in order to go to the court of Vienna, where he resolved 
to seek protection, and could correspond with those of his 
father's friends who were left alive. He did not part without 
testimonies of gratitude for the service I had done him, and his 
sense of my kindness to the prince his father. 

To conclude, having stayed near four months in Hamburgh, 



442 



ADVENTURES OF EOBINSOK CRUSOE. 



I came from thence by land to the Hague, where I embaiked 
in the packet, and arrived in London tbe lOtli of January, 1705, 

• having been absent from England ten years and nine months. 
And here I resolved to prepare for a longer joumey than all 
these, having lived a life of infinite variety seventy-two years, 
and leamed sufficiently to know the value of retirement, and die 
blessinff of ending our days in peace. 




:'■' f- 



K. CLAV, iaiKlXa, BiU:AD STREKT HILL. 



