
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at http : //books . google . com/| 




The Life and Surprising 
Adventures of Robinson Crusoe 



Daniel Defoe 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC ^ ^ 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



jfweifoOcJX^^ 



Digitized by VjOO^ IC 



THE 

LIFE AND SURPRISING ADVENTURES 

OF 

ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

OF YORK, MARINER: 

WITH A 

BIOGRAPHICAL ACCOUNT OF DEFOE. 

ILLUSTRATED WITH 

FIFTY CHARACTERISTIC CUTS, 
FROM DRAWINGS BY WILLIAM HARVEY, ESQ., 

AND ENGRAVED BY ADAM8. 



NEW YORK: 

DERBY & JACKSON, 119 NASSAU ST 

1858. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Kl>3n/3 



I JNIVERSITY 
LIBRAR.Y 



\tZJJV 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CONTENTS. 



UiognKphi^id Sbetch of Daniel Defoe ix 

SECTION I. 
Robinson's Family, &;c. — ^His Elopement fiom hit Parents 1 

SECTION II. 
First Adventures at Sea, and Experience of a Maritime Life — Voyage to 
Guinea 6 

SECTION III. 

Robinson's Captiyity at Sallee — Escape -with Xury— *ArriTal at the 
Brazils 14 

SECTION IV. 

He settles in the Brazils as a Planter — Makes another Voyage, and is 
Shipwrecked 27 

SECTION V. 
Robinson finds himself in a desolate Island — Procares a stock of Articles 
from the Wreck — Constructs his Habitation 39 

SECTION VI. 

Carries all his Ridies, ProTisions, dec, into his Habitation — ^Dreariness 
of Solitude — Consolatory Reflections 49 

SECTION VII. 
Robinson's mode of reckoning Time — Difficulties arising from want of 
Tools — He arranges his Habitation 63 

SECTION vm. 

Robinson's Journal — Details of his Domestic Economy and Contrivances 
— Shock of an Earthquake ^ 58 

SECTION IX. 

Robinson obtains more Articles from the Wreck — His Illness and Af- 
fliction , ^ . . 69 

SECTION X. 
His RecoTery-^His comfort in readmg the Scriptures — Makes an Excur- 
sion into the Interior of the Island — Forms his '^ Bower" 76 

1* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ri CONTENTS. • 

SECTION XI. P»g« 

Robinson makes a Tour to explore his Island — Employed in Basket- 
making 86 

SECTION XII. 
He returns to his Care — His Agricultural Labours and Success 9Z 

SECTION XIII. 
His manufacture of Pottery> and contrivance for baking Bread 09 

SECTION XIV. 
Meditates his Escape from the Island — Builds a Canoe — Failure of his 
Scheme — Resignation to his Condition — Makes himself a new Dress. . 104 

SECTION XV. 
He makes a smaller Canoe, in which he attempts to cruise round the Isl- 
and — His perilous situation at Sea — He returns Home 114 

SECTION XVI. 

He rears a flock of Goats — His Diary — His domestic Habits and style of 
Living — Increasing Prosperity 122 

SECTION XVII. 
Unexpected Alarm and cause for Apprehension — He fortifies his Abode . . 129 

SECTION XVIII. 
Precautions against Surprise — Robinson discovers that his Island has 
been visited oy Cannibals 137 

SECTION XIX. 
Robinson discovers a Cave> which serves him as a Retreat against the 
Savages 146 

SECTION XX. 

Another visit of the Savages — Robinson sees them Dancing — Perceives 
the Wreck of a Vessel 153 

SECTION XXI. 

He visits the Wreck and obtains manv Stores from it — Again thinks of 
quitting the Island — Has a remarkable Dream 159 

SECTION xxn. 

Robinson rescues one of their Captives from the Savages, whom he 
names Friday, and makes his Servant 169 

SECTION xxni. 

Robinson instructs and civilizes his man Friday— Endeavours to give 
him an idea of Christianity 177 

SECTION XXIV. 
Robinson and Friday build a Canoe to carry them to Friday's country — 
Their Scheme prevented by the Arrival of a party of Savages 181 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CONTENTS. Vll 

SECTION XXV. rmf 
Robinson releases a Spaniard — Friday discovers kis Father— * Accommo- 
dation provided for these new Guests, who w^re afterward sent to lib- 
erate the other Spaniards — Arrival of an English Vessel 191 

SECTION XXVI. 

Robinson discovers himself to the English captain — Assists him in re- 
ducing his mutinous Crew, who submit to him 206 

SECTION XXVII. 

Atkins entreats the Captain to spare his Life — The latter recovers his 
Vessel from the Mutineers, and Robinson leaves the Island 218 

SECTION XXVIII. 

Robinson goes to Lisbon, where he finds the Portasuese Captain, who 
^ renders him an account of his property in the Brazils — Sets out On his 

return to England, by land 226 

SECTION XXIX. 

Friday's encounter with a Bear — Robinson and his fellow-travellers at- 
tacked by a flock of Wolves — His arrangement of his Affairs, and Mar- 
riage after his return to England 237 

SECTION XXX. 

He is seized with a Desire to revisit his Island — Loses his Wife — Is 
tempted to go to Sea again — Takes out a Cargo for his Colony 348 

SECTION XXXL 

Robinson's Ship relieves the Crew of a French vessel that had caught 
fire 256 

SECTION XXXIL 
Relieves the Crew of a Bristol ship, who are starving — Arrives at his 
Island 263 

SECTION XXXIII. 

Robinson and Friday go ashore — The latter meets with his Father — ^Ac- 
count of what passed on the Island after Robinson's quitting it 270 

SECTION XXXIV. 

The Account continued — Quarrels between the Englishmen — A battle 
between two parties of Savages who visit the Island — Fresh Mutiny 
among the Settlers ' 278 

SECTION XXXV. 
The miitinous Englishmen are dismissed from the Island — Return with 
several captive Savages — Take the Females as Wives 296 

SECTION XXXVI. 

Several Savages killed ; the remainder leave the Island — A Fleet of them 
afterward arrive — A general Battle — The, Savages are overcome, and 
Tranquillity restored 308 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



TUl CONTENTS. 

SECTION XXXVII. p^g, 

Robint<m learns from the Spaniards the Difficulties they had to eneonn 
ter— He furnishes the People with Tools, &c. — The French Eeclesi* 
astic 324 

SECTION XXXVIII. 
Robinson*s Discourse with the Ecclesiastic as to introducing Marriages 
among the People — Marriages performed — Atkins converts his Wife . . 335 

SECTION XXXIX. 

▲tkins relates his Conversation with his Wife — The latter baptised by 
the Priest — Acdount of the starving state of those on board the rescued 
Vessel — Robinson's Departure from the Island 352 

SECTION XL. 

Encounter with Savages at Sea — Friday's Death — Robinson finds his 
former Partner in the Brazils — Sails for the East Indies 371 

SECTION XLI. 

The Vessel touches at Madagascar — Affray with the Natives, who are 
Massacred by the Crew — The Sailors afterward refuse to sail with Rob- 
inson, who is left by his Nephew, the Captain, in Bengal 380 

SECTION XLII. 

Meets with an English Merchant, with whom he makes some Trading 
Voyages — They are mistaken for Pirates — Vanquish their Pursuers — 
Voyage to China — Rencounter with the Cochin-Chinese — Island of 
Formosa — Gulf of Nanquin — ^Apprehensions of falling into the hands of 
the Dutch 336 

SECTION XLIII. 

Journey to Pekin — Robinson joins a Caravan proceeding to Moscow- 
Rencounters with the Tartars 427 

SECTION XLIV. 

Route tnrough Muscovy — Robinson and a Scots Merchant destroy an Idol 
— ^The whole Caravan in great peril from the Pursuit of .the Pagans — 
Tobolsk! — Muscovite Exues — Departure from Tobolski — Encounter 
with a troop of Robbers in the Desert — ^Robinson reaches Archangel, 
and finally arrives in England ,,,.,.,,,,,,.........«.... 443 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC , 



BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH 

OP 

DANIEL DEFOK 



The att&or of Robinson Crusoe would be entitled to a promi- 
nent place in the history of our literature, even had he never 
given to the world that truly admirable production; and yet we 
may reasonably question whether the name of Defoe would not 
long ago have sunk into oblivion, or at least have been known, 
like tiiese of most of his contemporaries, only to the curious 
student, were it not attached to a work whose popularity has 
been rarely equalled — never, perhaps, excelled. Even as it is, 
the reputation due to ^e writer has been nearly altogether ab- 
sorbed in that of his hero, and in the all-engrossing interest of 
his adventures : thousands who have read Robinson Crusoe with 
delight, and derived £rom it a satis&ction in no wise diminish- 
ed by repeated perusal, have never bestowed a thought on its 
author, or, indeed, regarded it in the light of a literary perform- 
ance. While its fiaiscination has been universally felt, the genius 
that conceived it, the talent that perfected it, have been gener- 
ally overlooked, merely because it is so full of nature and reality 
as to exhibit no invention or exertion on the part of the author, 
masmuch as he appears simply to have recorded what actually hap- 
pened, and consequently only to have committed to paper plain mat- 
ter of fact, without study or embellishment. We wonder at and 
are struck with admiration by the powers of Shakspeare or Cer- 
vantes ; with regard to Defoe we experience no similar feelings : 
it is not the skill of the artist that enchants us, but the perfect nat- 
uralness of Uie picture, which is such that we mistake it for a mir- 
ror ; so that every reader persuades himself that he could write as 
well, perhaps better, were he but furnished with the materials for an 
equally interesting narrative. 

There are many circumstances in Defoe's own history that 
would recommend it to the notice of the biographer, independ- 
ently of his claims as the author of Robinson ; among which are 
the variety and extraordinary number of his literary performa]>- 

A3 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



X BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF 

ces, amounting to no fewer than t^ro hundred and nine different 
publications; and the no less singular fact that the masterpiece 
of his genius was not only his first essay in that species of com- 
position, but was not produced till he was far advanced in years, 
he having then arrived at a peiiod of life when the generality of au- 
thors close their literary career ; and when the powers of imagina- 
tion either lose much of their vigour, or become altogether torpid. 
Nor will our surprise at Defoe^s industry, and the almost unpre- 
cedented fertility of his pen, be at all diminished by considering 
that he was not a recluse student or professed scholar, but was 
engaged in trade and various other speculations. In one respect, 
however, his mercantile occupations contributed to lay the foun- 
dation of his excellence as a novel-writer, since there can be little 
doubt that it is to his actual experience of the sea, and his acquaint- 
ance with other countries, we are indebted for that truth and spirit 
which animate the more interesting parts of Robinson Crusoe ; while 
his manly good sense, unaffected earnestness, and fund of native in- 
telligence, have placed him very far above those who presumed to 
undervalue his literary acquirements. 

According to the latest and most copious of all his biographers, 
Daniel Defoe was bom in 1661, two years earlier than the gen- 
erally assigned date of his birth. His £sither was a butcher in 
the parish of St. Giles, Cripplegate ; and appears to have been 
a citizen in easy circumstances, although his trade was one that 
confers no particular lustre on a pedigree. It is usual to affect 
some degree of astonii^mient when we read of men whose after 
fame presents a striking contrast to the humility of their origin ; 
yet we must recollect that it is not ancestry and splendid de- 
scent, but education and circumstances, which form the main ; and 
in tius respect the middling classes possess a decided advantage 
over those either below or above them ; for if the former are pre- 
cluded from cultivating their 'talents and abilities, the latter gen- 
erally consider themselves exempt from the necessity of doing 
so, and accordingly content themselves with cultivating mere ex- 
ternal accomplishments, in preference to exercising their mental 
energies. Those on the contrary who are placed in a middle sta- 
tion, while tliey are not debarred from the means of application, 
feel that stimulus to exertion \d)ich arises from the desire of ac- 
quiring fortune or ^eime. The history of such men as Ximenes, 
Wolsey, Alberoni, and Napoleon, may indeed justly excite our 
wonder ; — when, too, we behold unlettered genius emerging, in 
spite of every obstacle, from the obscurity to which it seemed 
condemned, as in a Ferguson, a Duval, a Bums, and an Opie, we 
may be permitted to express our astonidimient ; but as regards 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



DANIEL DEFOE. XI 

his origin, the history of Defoe is that of thousands who have 
aflerward raised themselves into comparative elevation by the 
display" of their powers. The solicitude, therefore, so generally 
displayed by biographers, on similar occasions, to trace some 
consanguinity with a more dignified branch of their families, for 
those whose native obscurity seems to demand some apology, be- 
trays a rather mistaken policy. However this may be, it is eer-* 
tain that it is quite as honouraUe for Defoe to have ascended 
from a butcher as it would have been to have descended frotti the 
Conqueror himself. 

One undoubted and very great advantage, for which Defbe waa 
indebted to his parents, who were nonconformists, was an educa^ 
tion superior to what it was then usual for persons in their sta- 
tion to bestow upon their children ; and they were careful also to 
implant in his youthful mind that regard for religion, and that 
strict moral integrity, which afterward displayed themselves not 
only in his writings, but his conduct through life. And this rec- 
titude of principle he most unequivocally evinced when his mis- 
fortunes put it so severely to the proof. At about the age of 
fourteen he was placed under the tuition of the Rev. Charles 
Morton, of Newington Green, who was aflerward vice-president 
of Harvard College, New- England ; and from various incidental 
remarks in his own works, it appears that young Defoe now en- 
tered upon an extensive course of studies, and made considera- 
ble proficiency in languages, mathematics, philosophy, history, and 
theology ; although the natural liveliness of his disposition unfitted 
him fbr that severe application which is necessary to form a pro- 
found scholar in any one of those pursuits. 

It was ^e intention of his parents that he sh(»ild embrace the 
clerical profession, which their religious feelings, and probably a 
very pardonable ambition, induced them to select for him; yet, 
notwithstanding his regard for the sacred ofice, he was unwilling 
to embrace it himself; or events, at least, diverted his talents into 
anoth^ channel. The political and religious excitements of 
that period were contagious for one of Defoe's temper: he 
assumed the character of the patriot as soon as he cast off 
that of the boy, and espoused the, side of the popular party with 
all the ardour of youth ; nor was it long before he had opportu- 
nities of distinguishing himself. He was a warm advocate for 
the BiD of Exclusion, passed by the Commons to prevent the suc- 
cession of the Duke of York to the throne ; and regarded with 
abhorrence that spirit of despotism which sentenced Sydney and 
so many others to the scaffold. At the age of twenty-one he 
commenced author, which employment he continued for nearly 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Xll DIOORAPIIICAL SKETCH 07 

half a century, and that, too, abnost uninterruptedly, notwith- 
standing his various speculations of a different nature. It cannot 
be expected that in a sketch of this nature we should attempt to 
gire any thing like a connected account of Defoe's various liter- 
ary performances, they being too numerous and multifarious for 
us to advert to them separately, even if we conceived that by so 
* doing we should greatly interest the readers of this — the most 
distinguished of them all. But the truth is, the majority of them 
are of that class which it is rather the province of the bibliogra- 
pher than the critic to describe. We may, however, here men- 
tion the first production of his pen, which, under the singular title 
of "Speculum Crape-gownorum," was a reply to a publication 
of Roger L'Estrange's, a noted party-writer of that day. In this 
work Defoe indulged in rather intemperate language, and while 
vindicating the dissenters, reflected in too hostile and indiscrimi- 
nate a manner upon the established clergy. This was succeeded 
by a "Treatise against the Turks," occasioned by the war be- 
tween them and the Imperialists ; and was penned by Defoe for 
the purpose of showing his countr3rmen that if it was the interest 
of Protestantism not to increase the influence of a Catholic pow- 
er, it was infinitely more so to oppose a Mohammedan one; 
which, however debatable it might appear to politicians, was al- 
most too obvious a truism to be entitled to any merit for its saga- 
city. It is tiie fate of political publications quickly to fall into 
oblivion after the events which call them forth have passed away : 
the reputation derived from ^em is as transitory as the events 
themselves, or if the fame of the writer occasionally descends to 
posterity, it is more than can be affirmed of his writings. 

Shortly after this, Defoe proved that he was as ready to support 
the doctrines he advocated by tiie sword as by the pen : he ac- 
cordingly joined the standard of the Duke of Monmouth, when 
the latter landed in England with the view of expelling a Catho- 
lic prince from the throne, and seating himself upon it as the de- 
fender of Protestantism. The issue of that adventure, and the 
subsequent fate of the unfortunate, if not perfectly innocent Mon- 
mouth, are weU knovni. Happier than the leader of the enter- 
prise, it was Defoe's better luck to escape; he returned to the 
metropolis in safety ; and, abandoning politics and warfare, was 
content for a while to turn his attention to the more humble but 
less stormy pursuits of trade. 

He now became a hosier, or rather a hose-factor, that is, a kind 
of agent between the manufacturer and retailer ; and, according 
to Mr. Chabners, he continued to carry on this concern from 
1686 to 1695. It was about two years after he had thus estab- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



DANIEL DEFOE. Xifi 

lished himself that he was admitted a liveryman of London, on 
the 26th of January, 1687-8. Business, however, did not so en- 
tirely absorb his attention but that he found time to engage in the 
various controversies that agitated the public mind, and which "were 
occasioned by the arbitrary measures of James, who, feeling him- 
self secure after the removal of so dangerous an enemy as Mon- 
mouth, began more openly to favour the Catholics, and to dispense 
with the tests intended to prevent their accepting commissions 
in the anny. This, of course, excited both the alarm and indig- 
nation* of the Protestants, which were by no means allayed by 
the temporizing servility of their own clergy, who exerted their 
eloquence in favour of the king's prerogative. Among those who 
attacked the doctrine of the di^)ensing power was Defoe; nor, 
as may well be imagined, was he afterward an unconcerned spec- 
tator of the Revolution, whose progress he had minutely watched, 
and whose anniversary he continued yearly to celebrate as a day 
marked by the deliverance of his country from political and relig- 
ious tyranny. His attachment to the new sovereign was confirmed 
by the personal notice shown him both by that prince and his con- 
sort ; for the " butcher's son" had had the honour of an eariy intro- 
duction to the' royal presence. 

At this period Defoe resided at Tooting in Surrey, and he had 
now launched out into more extensive commercial speculations, 
having embarked in the Spanish and Portuguese trade, so that he 
might fairly claim the titie of merchant. The precise time of his 
going to Spain, whether before or after the Revolution, cannot be as- 
certained : but he not only made a voyage tiiither, but stayed some 
tune in the country, and aequirefl a knowledge of the language. 
Sincere as was his attachment to the purer tenets of Protestant- 
ism, it did not degenerate into blind prejudice, nor prevent him 
from doing justice to Catholics ; he has accordingly, in his Rob- 
inson Crusoe, represented the Spanish character under its most 
amiable traits, and in a tone that may almost pass for paneg3rric. 
This voyage, as we have already remarked, doubtlessly contribu- 
ted to store his observant mind with many materials for those de- 
scriptions of the perils and adventures common to a seafaring 
life, that so strongly excite the sympathy of those who follow his 
hero across the trackless deep. Nor was he without some ex- 
perience of shipwreck, if not actually in his own person, by the 
loss of a vessel in which he was a shareholder, and which was 
wrecked in a violent storm off the coast of Biscay. It was about 
this period also that he traded with Holland ; probably for civet, 
as one of his enemies has sneeringly styled him a " civet-cat mer- 
chant." Besides this, he visited some other parts of the conti- 

2 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



XiT BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF 

nent, particalarly Grennany; he did not, however, relinqoish his 
hose-agency business in consequence of his other engagements. 
Bat conunercial enterprise did not prove for him the road to 
wealth : on the contrary, his ^peculations involved him in such 
embanrassments, that, in 1693, he .was obliged to abscond from 
his creditors. A c(HBmission of bankruptcy was taken out against 
him, yet it was afterward superseded, those to whom he was most 
in debt agreeing to accept a composition on his own bond ; and 
he not only punctually dLscharged these claims, but, after he had 
somewhat retrieved his circumstances, voluntarily repaid the re- 
mainder. This b so muck the more to his hcmour, since, so fiur 
from having met with many precedents of similar probity in oih- 
ers, his nusfortunes had been in some degree occasioned by the 
knavery of unprincipled men, who, availing themselves of the impu- 
nity held out to them by the supineness or the impotence of the law, 
were then accustomed to set their creditors at defiance in the most 
barefaced manner. 

It was Defoe himself who first called the attention of the legisla- 
ture to the intolerable abuses which arose from those sancttiarieSf as 
they were termed, for criminals and debtors, which then existed in 
the metropolis ; and to him, consequently, may we be said to be in- 
debted for the abatement of a nuisance as disgraceful to the national 
character as it was injurious to the industrious and honest portion ot 
the community. 

With the view of assisting him in his distress, some of his 
friends now came forward and offered to settle him as a factor at 
Cadiz; yet, advantageous as ^le i»roposal v^as, he declined it, 
preferring to endeavour to retrieve his finances by his pen. The 
country then being engaged in an expensive war with France, 
Defoe proposed a scheme to assist the -government in raising 
*' the ways and means ;" and some time afterward he received the 
appointment of accountant to the commissioners of the glass 
duty ; but it proved only a temporary one, as the duty waer re- 
pealed in Augu^ 1609. Probably it was also about the same 
period that he became secretary to the tilewwks at Tilbury, in 
which concern he embaiiLed some money, and was again a suf- 
ferer. His *^ Essay on Projects,'' published in January, 1696-7, 
shows him to have been, if not a very successM i^ccdator him- 
self, at least a very ingenious and fertile deviser of theoretical 
plans ; most of which must be allowed to have the welfare of so- 
ciety in view; nor have they been without influence in leading 
to many improvements of later times : among those which have 
been practically adopted we may mention his scheme for Friendly 
Societies and Savings' Banks. Were any testimony required in 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



DANIEL DEFOE. XV 

feronr of this work, it would be sufficient to quote that of the cele- 
brated Franklin, who confesses that the impressions he received from 
it gave a strong bias to his own pursuits. 

If not invariably employed in ^e active defence of public mor- 
als, Defoe^s pen was too honest to betray their interests on any 
occasion ; it was not always that his topics called for, or even 
admitted, any direct inculcation <^ virtue, but whenever they did, 
he disfdayed his earnestness in its behalf. His publication enti- 
tled " The Poor Man^s Plea," is a very keen piece of satire, with 
a considerable touch of humour, levelled against the vices of the 
upper classes of society, in which he urges them to discounte- 
nance by their own conduct the immorality they deem so repre- 
hensible in the vulgar. The stage, too, did not escs^pe his oasti- 
gation : and really its transgressions were at that time so bare- 
£»ced and audacious, so offensive even to common decency, that 
whatever infamy there may have been in either tolerating or in at- 
tempting to defend such a system of lewdness, there could be no 
great tnumj^ in exposing that which did not even attempt to con- 
ceal itself. 

We have now to notice our author in a somewhat different 
character — namely, as a candidate for poetical fame. His satire, 
entitled the " Truebom Englishman," which was written for the 
purpose of averting from the king the abusive reflections cast 
u^n him as a foreigner, had indeed a very great run at the time ; 
more, however, on account of the matter than of the manner ; ' 
i^ce bo^ that and all Defoe^s other attempts of the kind con- 
vince us, that, tike tlie great Roman orator, he was an intolerably 
bad ^K>et, and not even a decent versifier. Yet, could gratitude 
and enthusiastic devotion to his prince have supplied that inspi- 
ration which the muses denied him, Defoe's poetry would have 
been of first-rate excellence, so sincere was his admiration of, so 
zealous wa& his devotion to, William III. The various effusions 
in rhyme, and the numerous political pamphlets and tracts which 
he published at this interval, we must pass by, and come directly 
to an event that obtained for our author a rather unenviable spe- 
cies of distinction. The reign of Anne commenced with much 
violence, and with cabsds between the res^ctive church parties, 
leading to oontrover»es that rather famied than allayed the pub- 
lic ferment. On such an occasion, it was not to be expected that 
Defoe would remain passive ; assuming the furious tone of the 
high-churchmen of the day against the dissenters, he published 
a small pamphlet, which was in reality a satire upon- the writings 
which that party had issued from the jwress; but the irony was 
80 fine, and the imitation so eaoct, that while it was supposed by 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



XVi BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF 

them to utter the real sentiments of the writer, it was also inter- 
preted by those whom it waa intended to serve, as coming from 
a violent enemy. The "Shortest Way with the Dissenters" — 
such was its title, created an amazing sensation ; and on its real 
object being exposed, the high-church party became as fierce in 
their indignation as they had before been warm in their applause. 
The author was detected, a reward offered for his apprehension, 
and he himself sentenced to be imprisoned in Newgate, and to 
stand in the pillory ; but the attendance of his friends, and the 
enthusiasm of the populace in favour of the champion of religious 
liberty, converted an ignominious punishment into a triumph, so 
that his enemies had as little reason to exult in their victory, as 
to be proud of the sagacity they had displayed. If, however, 
this event rather increased than diminished Defoe^s reputation, 
it had a different effect upon his pecuniary affairs ; his confine- 
ment in Newgate prevented his attending any longer to his con- 
cern at Tilbury, the consequence of which was that it was obli- 
ged to be given up ; and thus Defoe saw himself deprived at 
once of what had been the source of a handsome income, for be- 
fore this afiair he was in such thriving circumstances as to be 
able to keep his coach. According to his own statement, he lost 
three thousand five hundred pounds, a far more considerable sum 
at that period than it would be now. There was indeed one 
way of both speedily and safely repairing his finances, namely, 
by accepting the overtures made him by the ministry, who would 
gladly have enlisted in liieir own cause that pen which had proved 
so powerful against them ; but Defoe was too independent of soul 
and too high-principled to purchase his release upon terms that 
would inflict upon him the disgrace the pillory had failed to ef 
feet. 

Although a prison is not the most congenial place for literary 
pursuits, our author availed himself of the time which the loss of 
his liberty afforded him, of occupying his unwelcome leisure from 
all other business in writing both in verse and prose. It was here 
that he published his poem on the " Reformation of Manners," a 
sufficiently copious theme in every age, and afterward continued 
the subject in another, entitled " More Reformation ;" in which he 
alludes to his own situation in tiie fcdlowing nervous lines, de- 
scribing himself as 

" A modem tool, 

To wit, to parties, and himself, a fool ; 

Embroil'd with states to do himself no good, 

And by his friends themselves misunderstood ; 

Misconstrued first in every word he said — 

By these unpitied, aud by those unpaid." 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



DANISL DEFOX. Xvli 

Here we may truly say facit indignoHo versos j for the caaatio 
tone knd anti^esis are not unworthy pf Pope himself. The po- 
litical controrersial pieces which he sent forth to the world from 
his ^ place of durance vile" were too numerous for us to specify 
them ; we ther^ore prefer speaking of a work of more permanent 
interest, one in which he may be regarded as the immediate prede- 
cessor of two of the most popular and admired of our classic 
writers in &e days of Anne — namely, Steele and Addison. De- 
foe's "Reriew," which commenced Feb. 19, 1704, deserves to 
be considered as the prototype of our Tatlers and Spectators^ 
and may earn for its author the appellation of the Father of En- 
glish Essayists; since notwithstanding that political intelligence 
and discussion constituted a great portion of its c<mtents, it 
touched upon a yariety of other topics bearing upon literature, 
manners, and morals; while it was itself hardly in any degree 
indebted ion this part of its plan to preceding or contemporary 
publications. Unifomyy assailing Tice, or exposing to just ridi- 
cule the fdOies and foibles of society, Defoe varied his mode of 
attack, at one time employing grave reasoning and serious re- 
monstrance; at another, substituting sarcasm, humour, wit, and 
pleasantry for monitory reproof. To a modem reader, indeed, 
many of the topics might seem to lack invention, and to be rather 
commonplace, merely because they have been so repeatedly han- 
dled by later writers, that both tiie wit and argument displayed 
in them have lost their firerimess. Thi* circumstance, however, 
does not detract from Defoe's intrinno merit, or frcon the praise 
due to him aa an originator ; on l^e contrary, he in this respect, 
only Glares the &te ccnnmon to all those who open a new path 
in literature or art, inviting imitators whose numbers oppress, if 
tiiey do not overwhelm them : that Defoe has not since been sur^ 
passed in this species of writing is hx more than we can venture 
to assert; yet it i^KMild be recollected that it is the first naviga- 
tor of the Atlantic, not those who cross it in a modem steamboat, 
who claims the homage of Our admiration. 

Those who are unacquainted with Defoe the e8sa3rist as well as 
Defoe the novelist, will not be able to a];5preciate the extent of 
our author's powers, and the variety of his information. But we 
have already dwelt upon liie ^' Review" at greater length than is 
consistent with the brevity we must perforce observe ; it is time 
therefore to proceed with our narrative. Mr. Harley, afterward 
Earl of Oxford, happened by a change in the ministry to come 
into power, after Defoe had been about two years in confinement : 
and being able to aj^eciate his abilities — perhaps anxious to se- 
cure them in his own support, he represented his case to the 

2* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



A 



Xviii BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF 

queen, who generously sent a stun of money to his wife and ianw 
iiy, and anotiier to discharge his fine and prison expenses. Im- 
mediately upon his liberation Defoe retired to Bury St. Edmund's. 
It was there that he wrote his masterly treatise, entitled " Giving 
Alms no Charity," in which he displays great practical knowl- 
edge, with enlarged and sound views on the causes of poverty, 
and on the employment of the poor. In the intervals of these 
and other occupations, for it ^ould be observed that he had been 
sent in 1705 by Harley on a secret mission to the continent, the 
express object of which has not transpired, — he found leisure to 
employ his pen on other subjects, and anticipating his future 
character of a romance writer, he invented the " true narrative" 
of Mrs. Veal's ai^arition, which was prefixed to a translation of 
Drelincourt on Death. The supposed stranger from the other 
world is made to recommend that performance ; and, as such su- 
pernatural testimony was irresistible, the whole impression, which 
had before lain on the booksellers' shelves, was quickly sold, and 
was succeeded by many others, the work having since passed 
through forty different editions. This stratagem certainly does 
honour to Defoe's ingenuity and penetration; yet whether it be 
entirely justifiable, considering the tendency of the deception, may 
be doubted. 

Leaving for a while the account of his literary career, we must 
now briefly notice a very important national subject, namely, the 
Union witii Scotland, in which, besides warmly advocating the 
measure with his pen, Defoe was personally employed. At the 
recommendation of Harley and Lord Godolphin, by whom he had 
been reconunended to the queen, he was sent on a mission to Ed- 
inburgh, in which city he arrived in October, 1706. Here, it 
should seem, he was chiefly employed in making calculations re- 
lating to trade and taxes, for the information of the committees 
of parliament; he also occupied himself in collecting those doc- 
uments relative to tiie Union which he afterward published. Be- 
sides this, he pr(^)osed several plans ^or encouraging the man- 
ufactures, and for promoting the trade, wealth, and maritime re- 
sources of Scotiand. After an absence of about sixteen months, 
he returned to England in 1708, when his services obtained for 
him, from the ministry, an appointment with a fixed salary ; and 
as it does not appear wiiat was the nature of the office he held, 
we may conclude it to have been merely a sinecure. Almost 
immediately afterward his patron Harley was dismissed from 
office, through the persevering intrigues of the Duchess of Marl- 
borough, whom he had supplanted in the queen's favour ; an event 
that suddenly overclouded Defoe's pditical prospects. Without 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



DANIEL DEFOE. XIZ 

compromising his primsiples, howerer, he espoused the interesU 
of the succeeding ministry; hut although Godolphin treiUed him 
with consideration, he suffered Ids pension to fail into arrears, 
perhaps in consequence of Defoe's long absence in Scotland, 
whither he was again despatched a few months afterward upon 
some secret business. In the following year, 1709, Defoe pub- 
lished a work which, to use the words of an eminent living critic, 
"places him among the soundest historians of the day;'* and 
which, according to the testimony of another, would have handed 
down his name to posterity, even had he not iomiortalized him- 
self by Robinson Crusoe. This was his " History of the Union," 
which is as interestmg for the minute descriptions it gives of the 
actors and incidents in that important event, as for the documents 
it furnishes. 

Still engaged in politics, Defoe's continued and severe at- 
tacks against the Tories and the high-ohurch party so exaspera- 
ted them that they attempted to suppress his writings, and even 
tiireatened him with prosecutions: their animo&dty, however, did 
not procure for him, from those whose cause he defended, a de- 
gree of favour and support at' all commensurate with his long and 
able services. He had also to contend with fresh pecuniary 
losses in some cencem in which ho was engaged (1712) with 
Mr. Wood, a mercer of C<^e^ill in Warwickshire ; qnd with the 
personal abuse with which his character was assailed by writers 
who- reflected upon him as being a knavish bankrupt. But his 
political career was now drawing ta its close : having carried on 
his " Review" for more Aan nine, years, he finally relinquished 
it in May, 1713, when he was again a prisoner in Newgate upon 
an endictment preferred against him by his friends the Whigs, as 
the author of three treasonable Jacobitical pamphlets; whereas 
the publications in question were of a directly opposite tendency. 
The queen once more bestowed a free pardon on him, and the 
malice of hk numerous enemies was defeated. From this time 
he employed his pen only occasionally on political subjects. By 
the accession of George I. to the throne Defoe gained nothing, 
although his writings had strenuously pleaded the cause of the 
House of Hanover during the late reign; and although he had 
i^perior claims upon public gratitude for the zeal with which, 
during nearly iMrty years, he had not only advocated religious 
and political independence, but endeavoured to call attention to 
subjects of paramount importance to the national prosperity. 
That this neglect should, in spite of all his philosophy, have oc- 
casioned him considerable mortification, is not much to be won- 
dered at : and to the ef^t it had upon his health was attributed 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



rX BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF 

an apoplectic attack in the year 1715, from which he continued to 
8i^er for six months. 

After so serious a blow to his constitution, and at his ad- 
Taneed period of life, it might have been expected that he would 
now lay aside his pen, — ^at least remit in his exertions. Yet it 
was subsequenily to this apparently cloudy epoch of his career 
that the brightest and most durable of his literary wreaths was 
won. Great Tersatility (^ talent is not often accompanied by an 
equal degree of vigour and raciness of intellect ; when, however, 
such does happen to be the case, it should seem that the for- 
mer is rather beneficial than otherwise to its possessor, and that 
change of subject serves to recruit the mental energies. Defoe 
at least may be quoted as an extraordinary instance of rejuve^ 
nescency of mind in the decline of years. We do not here allude 
to his ^Family Instructer," although that performance is one of 
the most valus^le and useful systems of practical morality in our 
language, and has, doubtless, been for more beneficial to society 
tium many worics of even splendid celebrity. It is the series of 
noveb which now appeared in quick succession firom his pen, 
tiiat have won for him an imperishable reputation among the wor* 
ihies of English literature ; nor will his claims upon our admiration 
be diminished by considering the extravagant, unnatural system of 
romance writing which had till then prevailed, where every thing 
was either so artificial or so shadowy, that n^t a glimpse of real 
life was to be discerned. In Defoe^s narratives, on the contrary, 
there is such an air of downright matter'-of^foct and unadorned 
truth, as to amount to actual deception; thereby prevei^ng us 
from crediting the ai^or with any merit on the score of imagina- 
tion, contrivance, or invention. Of this the reader will be amply 
convinced by the perusal of the present work, on which it is not 
necessaiy that we should expatiate, and we shall therefore mere- 
ly advert to the circumstances connected vnth its origin and pub- 
lication. The History of Rc^inson Crusoe was first published 
in the year 1719, and its popularity may be said to have been 
established immediately, since four editions were called for in 
about as many months, a circumstance at that time almost unpre- 
cedented in Uie annals of literature. It rarely happens that an' 
author^s expectations are surpassed by the success of his work, 
however astonishing it may seem to others; yet perhaps even 
Defoe himself did not venture to look forward to such a welcome 
on the part of the puWic, after the repulses he had experienced 
on that of the booksellers; for, incredible as it now appears, the 
manuscript of the work had been offered to, and rejected by, 
every one in the trade, in which respect its destiny was not only 



■ Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DANIEL DEFOE. XXi 

similar to that of Paradke Lost, but of two d the mo«t celebra- 
ted literary productions of the present day, namely, Waverley and 
Ohilde Harold ; the former of wbach remained in manoacript ten 
years, without any probalHlity of ever seeing the li^t, although 
its &me has since extended itself wherever the English Ian- 
goage is known — nay, more, has even penetrated the wilds of 
Siberia. 

AstoniE^dng as was the success of Dice's rcnnanoe, it did not 
deter the envious from attempting to disparage it. The materi- 
als, it was said, were eitiier fumii^ed fay or surreptitiously ob- 
tained from Alexander SeUdriE, a mariner who had resided for 
fata years in the desert iriand of Juan Fernandez, and returned 
to England in 1711. Very probacy, his story, which then ex- 
cited consideraUe intereirt and attention, did suggest to Defoe 
tiie idea of vmtii^ his romance ; but all tiie details and incidents 
axe entirriy his own. Most certainly Defoe had detained no pa^ 
pers or written documents from Selkirk, as the latter had none 
to commnmicate. So &r, however, have others been from taxing 
ms author with plagiarism, that they have, on the contrary, char- 
ged him vritii putting on paper a heap of chimeras, to impose 
upon pubHc credulity. Thus these two contradictory charges re^ 
ciproeaJfy destroy each other. An attempt has also been made 
to rob-hhu entirely of the brightest jewel in his literary crown, by 
denying him to luive been the author of Robinson Crusoe, which 
has been ascribed, by some, to Arbuthnot ; by others, to Defoe's 
patron, the first Eari ^ Oxford. Those who have wi^ed to 
gain credit for the latter opinion, assert tiiat it i^as composed by 
that noblCTtian during his im^niBonment in the Tower, in 1715, on 
a charge of high treason : and they have argued ^tat the viiiole 
tone of ihe work, especially of that part towards the conclusion, 
where an account is given of the exiled nobles of Muscovy, is 
what would naturally be suggested hy tiie sdlitude of a prison. 
Tet, as far as internal evidence k concerned, tiiat is, mdisputably, 
nmch stronger in &vour of Defoe ; for he had not only been fa- 
mfliar vdth imiMrisonment, but was also, by his acquaintance with 
foreign countries, and his experience in business and traffic, 
much better qualified to produce a work which dii^lays so much 
practical knowledge of things, as well as ot man. indeed, noth- 
ing short of tiie most conclusive and undeniable testimony of 
fiucts to the contrary, can at all invalidate his claims to be con- 
sidered as ihe real author. Had Robmson Ctusoo been the only 
production of the kind that proceeded from his pen, there might 
be better reason for doubting whether he wrote it; but the vari- 
ous other novels, or rather pieces of fictitious Wography, which 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



xxii bioohaphical sketch of 

he produced, form an additional reason for attributing it to 
him. 

Of these latter we must here speak &r more briefly than they 
deserve : the " History of Moll Flanders," which was publi^ed in 
1731, is an admirably drawn picture oC life, and contains an ex- 
cellent moral lesson, although many of the scenes it necessarily 
discloses are coarse and revolting. The ^ Life of Colonel Jaque'' 
contains also much able delineation of real life ; and in that part of 
the narrative which gives an account of the heroes residence in Vir- 
ginia, Defoe has humanely advocated the cause of the negro slaves. 
His " Memoirs of a Cavalier," which work is supposed to have been 
written about the same time, is rather history, attired in the form 
of an imaginary piece of biography, than a romance. Indeed, all 
the details are so circumstantial and accurate, that it has been mis- 
taken for a genuine narrative of the events of the civil wars in En- 
gland and Germany ; and it was actually reconmieBded as the very 
best account of them by the great Lord Chatham, with whom it was 
a favourite book. In like manner our author's ^* History of the 
Plague" imposed upon Dr. Mead, and since upon others, who have 
referred to it as an authentic document, and a true recital of that 
great national calamity. Here he is the rival of Thucydides and 
Boccacio ; and dei»cts the horrors of pestilence as vividly and as 
masterly as Poussin. It may however be imagined by some that 
this is ra;ther suspicious praise, and that the work of fiction which 
can pass as true history must be cold, matter-of-fiict, and tame ; re- 
pulsive and dry. It is not, however, in the formal gravity of style 
that these works resemUe history j but they imitate and reflect the 
features of the past in their most interesting, if not their most en- 
gaging aspect. 

Besides the preceding, and one or two other productions of a sim- 
ilar cast, Defoe produced that very excellent and popular work en- 
titled '' Religious Courtship," which was first published^in 1722, and 
afterward went through numerous editions. This and his ^^ Family 
Instructer" are replete with lessons of the soundest practical wisdom, 
and place their author among the most exteni^vely useful of our En- 
glish moralists.* 

Here, however, we must terminate our sketch, having barely left 
ourselves room to mention a few particulars relative to the close of 
his life. Although the profits accruing from his publications had of 
late been considerable, and he had been able to give a portion to his 
daughter Sophia, who married Mr. Baker, the celebrated natural 
philosopher, in 1729, yet he was still doomed to contend with mis- 
fortune. In addition to the afllietion of bodily infirmity and severe 
pain, be again fell into great pecuniary difficulties, and was even ar- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



DANIEL DEFOE. XXIU 

rested. He appears, howeyer, to haye reoorered his liberty within 
a short time ; but the unnatoral conduct of his son, who refused to 
give up the property that had been intrusted to him, with the view 
of securing a provision to his mo&er and two unmarried sisters, was 
a heavier blow than any he had before experienced ; and the mental 
anguish it occasioned doubtless accelerated his death, which occurred 
on the 24th of April, 1731. Since that period more than a century 
has now elapsed ; and in that interval many names of considerable 
eminence in their day have sunk into irretrievable oblivion ; Defoe, 
also, has lost some portion of the celebrity he enjoyed with his con- 
temporaries ; yet, afler every deduction, enough remains to entitle 
him to a place among the Worthies of English literature, for should 
all his other productions be forgotten, his Robinson Crusoe must re- 
main imperishable. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION I. 
sobinson's pamilt, eto.— his elopement fsom his parents. 

I WAS born in the yeat 1632, in the city of York, of a good 
family, though not of that country, my father being a foreigner of 
Bremen, named Kreutznaer, who settled first at Hull. He got a 
good estate by merchandise, and leaving ofi' his trade, lived after- 
wards at York ; from whence he had married my mother, whose 
relations were named Robinson, a very good family in that coun- 
try, and after whom I was so called, that is to say, Robinson 
Kreutznaer; but, by the usual corruption of words in England, 
we are now called, nay, we. call ourselves, and write our name, 
Crusoe v and so my companions always called me. 

I had two elder brothJ^rs, one of whom was lieutenant-colonel 
to an English regiment of foot in Flanders, formerly commanded 
by the famous Colonel Lockhart, and was killed at the battle 
near Dunkirk against the Spaniards. What became of my second 
brother, I never knew, any more than my father and mother did 
know what was become of me. 

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any trade, 
my head began to be filled very early with rambling thoughts. 
My^ father, who was very aged, had given me a competent share 
of learning, as far as house education and a country free school 
generally go, and designed me for the )»w ; but I would be satis- 

1 



Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



Z ADVENTURES OF 

fied with nothing but going to sea : and my inclination to this led 
mri so strongly against the will, nay, the commands of my father, 
and against all the entreaties and persuasions of my mother and 
other friends, that there seemed to be something fatal in that pro* 
pension of nature, tending directly to the life of misery which 
was to befall me. 

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and excel- 
lent coi esaw was my design. He called 
me one >r, where he was confined by the 
gout, aj aly with me upon this subject : he 
asked i m a mere wandering inclination, 
I had nd my native country, where I 
might tiad a prospect of raising my for- 
tune, b 7, with a life of ease and plea- 
sure, desperate fortunes, on one hand, 
or of 81 ther, who went abroad upon ad- 
venture Qterprise, and make themselves 
famous ire out of the common road ; that 
these things were all either too far above me, or too far below 
me ; that mine was the middle state, or what might be called the 
upper station of low life, which he had found, by long experience, 
was the best state in the world, the most suited to human happi- 
ness ; not exposed to the miseries and hardships, the labour and 
suflTerings of the mechanic part of mankind, and not embarrassed 
with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of the upper part oi 
mankind : he told me, I might judge of the happiness of this state 
by one thing, viz. that this was the state of life which all other 
people envied ; that kings have frequently lamented the miserable 
consequences of being born to great things, and wished they had 
been placed in the middle of two extremes, between the mean 
and the great ; that the wise man gave his testimony to this, aa 
the just standard of true felicity, when he prayed to have <* neithe> 
poverty nor riches." 

He bade me observe it, and I should always find, that the 
calamities of life were shared among the upper and lower part 01 
mankind; but that the middle station had the fewest disasters, 
and was not exposed to so many vicissitudes as the higher Oi 
lower part of mankind : nay, they were not subjected to so many 
distempers and uneasinesses, either of body or mind, as those 
were, who, by vicious living, luxury, and extravagances, on one 
hand, or, by hard labour, want of necessaries, and mean and 
insufficient diet, on the other hand, tring distempers upon them- 
selves by the natural consequences of their way of living ; that the 
middle station of life was calculated for all kind of virtues, and 



Digitized 



by Google 



&0B1N80H CKUSOIS. B 

b1& kind of enjoyments; that peace and plenty -vrere the hand- 
maids of a middle fortune ; that temperance, moderation, quiet- 
ness, health, society, idl agreeable diversions, and all desirable 
l^easures, were the blessings attending the middle station of life; 
that this way men went silently and smoothly through ^e world, 
and comfortably out of it, not embarrassed witii the labours of the 
hands or of the head, not sold to the life of slavery for daily 
bread, or harassed with perplexed circumstances, which rob the 
soul of peace, and the body of rest ; not enraged with the passion 
of envy, or secret burning lust of ambition for great things ; but, 
in easy cireumstances, sliding gently through the world, and sen- 
sibly tasting the sweets of living, without the bitter ; feeling that 
they are happy, and learning, by every day^s experience, to know 
it more sens^y. 

After ^BB, he prised me earnestly, and in the most afiectionate 
manner, not to play ^e young man, nor to precipitate myself into 
miseries which nature, and the station of life I was born in, 
seemed to have provided against; that I was under no necessity of 
seeking my bread ; that he would do well for me, and endeavour 
to enter me fairly into the station of life which he had been just 
recommending to me ; and that if I was not very easy and happy 
in the wovid, it must be my mere fate, or fault, that must hinder 
it; uid that he should have nothing to answer for, having thus 
dbcharged his duty in warning me against measures which he 
knew wouM be to my hurt : in a word, that as he would do very 
kind things for me if I would stay and settle at home as he 
directed ; so he would not have so mi^h hand in my misfortunes 
as to give me any encouragement to go away : and, to close all, 
he told me I had my elder brother for an example, to whom he 
had used the same earnest persuasions to keep him from going 
into Ae Low Country wars; but could not prevail, his young 
desires prompting him to run into the army, where he was killed ; 
and though, he said, he would not cease to pray for me, yet he 
would venture to say to me, that if I did take this foolish step, 
God would not bless me ; and I would have leisure, hereafter, to 
reflect upon having neglected his counsel, when there might be 
none to assist in my recovery. 

I observed, in this last part of his discourse, which was truly 
prophetic, though^ I suppose, my father did not know it to be so 
himself; I sf y, I observed the tears run down his face very plen- 
tifully, especially when he spoke of my brother who was killed ; 
and that, when he spoke of my having leisure to repent, atid none 
to assist me, he was so moved, thtit he broke off the discourse, 
and told nae hu heart was so full, he could say no more to me 



Digitized 



by Google 



4 ADTBNTClUto OT 

1 waa Bincerely affected with this dlBCOurte; at, indeed, who 
could be otherwise ? and I resolved not to think of going abroad 
any more, but to settle at heme, according to mj father's desire. 
But, alas 1 a few days wore it all off: and, in short, to prerent 
any of my father's further importunities, in a few weeks after 1 
resolved to run quite away from him. However, I did not act so 
hastily, neither, as my first heat of resolution prompted ; but I 
took my mother, at a time when I thought her a little pleasanter 
than ordinary, and told her that my thoughts were so entirely 
bent upon seeing the world, that I should never settle to any 
thing with resolution enough to go through with it, and my father 
had better give me his consent than force me to go without it; 
that 1 was now eighteen years old, which was too late to go ap- 
prentice to a trade, or clerk to an attorney ; that I was sure, if I 
did, I should never serve out my time, and I should certainly run 
away from my master before my time was out, and go to sea; 
and if she would speak to my father to let me make but one 
voyage abroad, if I came home again, and did not like it, I woidd 
go no more; and I would promise, by a double diligeBce, to 
recover the time I had lost. 

This put my mother into a great passion: she told me she 
know it would be to no purpose to speak to my father upon any 
such a subject; that he knew too well what was my interest to 
give his consent to any thing so much for my hurt ; and thst she 
wondered how I could think of any such thing, after Mich a dis- 
course as I had from my father, and such kind and tmider ex- 
pressions as she knew my father had used to me : and that, in 
short, if I would ruin myself, there was no help for me; but I 
might depend I should never have their consent to it : that for 
her part, she wocdd not have so much hand in my destruction; 
and I should never have it to say, that my mother was willing 
when my father was not. 

Though my mother refused to move it to my father, yet, as I 
have heard afterwards, ehe reported all the discourse to him ; and 
that my father, after showing a great concern at it, said to her 
with a sigh. That boy might be happy, if he would stay at 
home; but, if he goes abroad, he will be the most miserable 
wretch that ever was bom : I can give no consent to it. 

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose; 
though iu the mean time I continued obstinately deaf to ail pro- 
posals of settling to business, and frequently expostulating with 
my father and mother about their being so positively determined 
dgainst what they knew my inclinatiotts prompted me to. But, 
Iteing one day at Hull, whither I went casually, and irithout any 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



^ K0BIH80H CRUSOE. 

purpose of making an elopement at ^at time, and one of mj 
companions then going to London by sea in his father's ship, and 
prompting me to go with them by the common allurements oi 
seafaring men, viz. that it should cost me nothing for my passage, 
I consulted neither father nor mother any more, nor so much a? 
sent ^em word of it ; but left them to hear of it as they might, 
without asking God*s blessing, or my father's, without. any con 
sideration of circumstances or consequences, and in an ill hour, 
God knows. 

1* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECnOi? IL 

niST iJ>VENT(7REB AT SEA, AND EXPERIKKCB OF A MARITIMB LIFE— YOTAGK 
TO GUINEA. 

On the 1st of September, 1651, I went on board a ship bound 
for London. Never any young adventurer's misfortunes, I be- 
lieve, began younger, or continued longer, than mine. The ship 
had no sooner got out of the Humber, than the wind began to' 
blow, and the waves to rise, in a most frightful manner ; and as I 
had never been at sea before, I was most inexpressibly sick in 
body and terrified in mind : I began now seriously to reflect upon 
what I had done, and how justly I was overtaken by the judgment 
of Heaven, for wickedly leaving my father's house. All the good 
/ounsels of my parents, my father's tears, and my mother's 
entreaties, came now fresh into my mind ; and my conscience, 
which was not yet come to the pitch of hardness to which it has 
been since, reproached me with the contempt of advice, and the 
abandonment of my duty. 

All this while the storm increased, and the sea, which I had 
never been upon before, went very high, though nothing like 
what I have seen many times since ; no, nor what I saw a few 
days after ; but, such as it was, enough to affect me then, who 
was but a young sailor, and had never known any thing of the 
matter. I expected every wave would have swallowed us up 
and that every time the ship fell down, as I thought, in the trough 
or hollow of the sea, we should never rise more ; and in this 
agony of mind I made many vows and resolutions, that if it 
would please God to spare my life this voyage, if ever I got mj 



Digitized 



byGgogle 



R0BINS05 CRU80K. 1 

foot once on dry dry land, I would go directly home to my father, 
and never set it into a ship again while I lived ; that I would take 
bis advice, andiiever run myself into such miseries as these any 
more. Now I saw plainly the goodness of his observations about 
the middle station of life ; how easy, how comfortable, he had 
lived all his days, and never had been exposed to tempests at sea 
or troubles on shore ; and 1 resolved that I would, like a true re- 
penting prodigal, go home to my father. 

These wise and sober thoughts continued during the storm,, 
and indeed some time after ; but the next day, as the wind was 
abated, and the sea calmer, I began to be a little inured to it. 
However, I was very grave that day, being also a little sea-sick 
still : but towards night the weather cleared up, the wind wat 
quite over, and a charming fine evening followed ; the sun went 
down perfectly clear, and rose so the next morning ; and having 
little or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the 
sight was, as I thought, the most delightful that I ever saw. 

I had slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-sick, 
but very cheerful, looking with wonder upon the sea that was so 
rough and terrible the day before, and could be so calm and 
pleasant in a little time after. 

And now, lest my good resolutions should continue, my com 
panion, who had indeed enticed me away, came to me, and said, 
Well, Bob, clapping me on the shoulder, how do you do after it ? 
I warrant you were frightened, wa'n't you, last night, when it 
blew but a cap-full of wind ? — A cap-full, do you call it ? said I ; 
'twas a terrible storm. — ^A storm, you fool ! replies he, do you 
call that a storm ? Why, it was nothing at all ; give us but a 
good ship and sea-room, and we think nothing of such a squall 
of wind as that : you are but a fresh-water sailor. Bob ; come, 
let us make a bowl of punch, and we'll forget all that. D'ye see 
what charming weather 'tis now ? To make short this sad part of 
my story, we went the way of all sailors ; the punch was made, 
and I was made drunk with it ; and in that one night's wicked- 
ness I drowned all my repentance, all my reflections upon my 
past conduct, and all my resolutions for the future. In a word, 
as the sea was returned to its smoothness of surface and settled 
caUnness by the abatement of the storm, so the hurry of my 
thoughts being over, my fears and apprehensions of being swal- 
lowed up by the sea forgotten, and the current of my former 
desires returned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises I had 
made in my distress. I found, indeed, some intervcJs of refection ; 
and serious thoughts did, as it were, endeavour to return again 
sometimes ; but I shook them off and roused myself from them 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



8 ADVENTURES OF 

as it were from a distemper, and, applying myself to drink and 
company, soon mastered the return of those fit8,-~for so I called 
them ; and I had in five or six days got as complete a rictory 
over conscience as any young sinner, that resolved not to be 
troubled with it, could desire. But I was to have another trial 
for it still ; and Providence, as in such cases generally it does, 
resolved to leave me entirely without excuse : for if 1 would not 
take this for a deliverance, the next was to be such a one as the 
worst and most hardened wretch among us would confess both 
the danger and ^e mercy of. The sixth day of our being at sea, 
we came into Yarmouth Roads : the wind having been contrary, 
and the weather calm, we had made but little way since the 
storm. Here we were obliged to come to an anchor, and here 
we lay, the wind continuing contrary, viz. at south-west, for 
seven or eight days, during which time a great many ships from 
Newcasde came into the same roads, as the common harbour 
where the ships might wait for a wind for the river Thames. We 
had not, however, rid here so long, but we should have tided up 
the river, but that the wind blew too fresh ; and, after we had lain 
four or five days, blew very hard. However, the roads being 
reckoned as good as a harbour, the anchorage good, and our 
ground tackle very strong, our men were unconcerned, and not in 
the least apprehensive of danger, but spent the time in rest and 
mirths after the manner of the sea. But the eighth day, in the 
morning, the -^vind increased, and we had all hands at work to 
strike our topmasts, and make every thing snug and close, that 
the ship might ride as easy as possible. By noon the sea went 
very high indeed, and our ship rode forecastle in, shipped several 
^eas, and we thought, once or twice, our anchor had come home ; 
upon which our master ordered out the sheet-anchor; so that 
we rode with two anchors ahead, and the cables veered out tn 
the better end. 

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed ; an ' now I began 
to see terror and amazement in the faces of eve a the seamen 
themselves. The master was vigilant in the businesc of preserving 
the ship ; but, as he went in and out of his cabin by me, I could 
hear him softly say to himself several times. Lord, be merciful to 
us! we shall be all lost; we shall be all undone! and the Wke. 
During these first hurries I was stupid, lying still in my cabin, 
which was in the steerage, and cannot describe my temper. I 
could ill reassume the first penitence, which I had so apparently 
trampled upon, and hardened myself against ; I thought that the 
bitterness of death had been past, and that this would be nothing 
too, like the first : but when the master h-mself came by me as I 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



E0BIN80N CAU80X. 

said just now, and bM we shonld be all lost, I was dreadfully 
frtgfatened. I got up out of my cabin, and looked out; but such 
a dismal sight I neyer saw ; the sea went mountains high, and 
broke upon us every three or four minutes. When I could look 
abom, I could see nothing but distress around us ; two ships, that 
rid near us, we found had cut their masts by the board, being 
deeply laden ; and our men cried out that a ship, which rid about 
a mile ahead of us, was foundered. Two more ships, being 
driven from tfa^ anchors, were run out of the ioad4 to sea, at all 
adventures, and that with not a mast standing. The light ships 
fared ti^ best, as not so much labouring in the sea; but two or 
three of them drove, and came- close by us, running away, with 
only their sprksails out, before the wind. Toward evening, the 
mate and boatswain begged ^e master of our ship to let them 
cut away the foremast, which he was very loath to do ; but the 
ooatswain protes&g to him, that if he did not, the ship would 
founder^ he consented; and when they had cut away ^e fore- 
mast, the mainmast stood so loose, and shook- the ship so much, 
they were obliged to cat it away also, and nu^e a dear deck. 

Any one may judf^ what a condition I must be in at all this, 
who was but a young sailor, and who had been in such a fright 
before at but ^ Uttie. But if I can express, at this distance, the 
thoughts I had about me at that time, I was in tenfold more 
horror of mind upon account of my former convictions, and the 
naving returned from them to the resohttions I had wickedly 
taken at firs^ than I was at death itself ; and these, added to the 
terror of the storm, put me into such a eondidon, that I can by no 
words describe it, but the worst was not come yet ; the storm 
continued with such fury, that the seamen themselves acknow- 
ledged they had never known a. worse. We had a good ship, 
but she was deep laden, and so wallowed in the sea, that the sea- 
men every now and then cried out, she would founder. It was 
my advantage, in one respect, that I did not know what they 
noesmt by founder, till I inquired. However, the storm was so 
violent, ^t I saw, what is not o^ten seen, die master, the boat- 
swain, and some others, more sensible thsm the rest, at their 
prayers, and expecting every moment the ship would go to the 
bottom. In the middle of the night, and under aM the rest of our 
distres^s, one of the men, that had been down on purpose to 
see, cried out, we had sprung a leak; another said, there was 
four feet water in the hold. Then all hands were called to the 
pump. At that vei-y word, my heart, as i thought, died within 
me ; and I fell backwards upon the side of my bed, where I sat in 
the cabin. However, the men roused me, and told me tha* L 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



10 ADVXlfTURCI OF 

who waa able to do nothing before, was as well able to pump •• 
another : at which I stirred up and went to the pump, and worked 
very heartily. While this was doing, the master seeing seme 
light colliers, who, not able to ride out the storm, were obliged to 
slip and run away to sea, and would not come near ur. ordered 
us to fire a gun, as a signal of distress. I, who knew nothing 
what that meant, was so surprised, thi^ I thought the ship had 
broke, or some dreadful thing had happened. In a word, I was 
so surprised,* that I fell down in a swoon. As this was a time 
when every body had his own life to think of, no one minded me, 
or what was become of me : but another man stepped up to the 
pump, and thrusting me aside with his foot, let me lie, tiiinking I 
had been dead ; and it was a great while before I eaaxe to mjrsel^ 

We worked on ; but the water increasing in the hold, it was 
apparent that the ship would founder; and dieugh the storm 
began to abate a little, yet as it was not poe»ible she could swim 
till we might run into % port, so the master continued firing guns 
for help; and a l%ht ship, who had rfd it out just ahead of us, 
ventured a boat out to help us. It was with the utmost hazMd 
the boat came near us, but it was imposuble for us to get on 
board, or for the boat to lie near the slup's ode ; till at last the 
men rowing very Iwarttly, and venturing their lives to save oiurs, 
our men cast them a rope ever the stem with a buoy to it, and 
then veered it out a gre^t length, which they, after great labour 
and hazard, took hold of, and we hauled them close sunder our > 
stem, and got all iiHo their boat. It was to no purpose for them 
or us, after we were in the boat, to think of reaching their own 
ship ; so all agreed to let her drive, and only to pull her in towards 
shore as much as we could ; and our master promised them, that 
if the boat was staved upon shore, he would make it good to 
their master ; so partly rowing, and partly driving, our boat went 
away to the northward, sloping towards the shore almost as far 
as Winterton-Ness. 

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our 
ship when we saw her sink ; and then I understood, for the first 
time, what was meant by a ship foundering in the sea. I must 
acknowledge, I had hardly eyes to look up when the seamen told 
me, she was sinking ; for, from that moment, they rather put me 
into the boat, than that I might be said to go in. My heart was, 
as it ^ere, dead within me, partly with fright, partly with horror 
of mind, and the thoughts of what was yet before me. 
, While we were in this condition, the men yet labouring at the 
oar to bring the boat near the shore, we could see (when, our 
b^at raountiug the waves, we were able to see the shore) a grea 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROSINSOIV CRUSOJC li 

many people runiiiiig along ihe strand, to assist us when we shouid 
come near ; but we made slow way towards the shore ; nor were 
we able to reaeh it, till, being past the light-house at Wiuterton, 
the shore falls off to the westward, towards Cromer, and so the 
land broke off a little the violence of the wind. Here we got in, 
and though not without much difllculty, got all safe on shore, and 
walked afterwards on foot to Yarmouth ; where, as unfortunate 
men, we were used with great humanity^ as well by the magis* 
trates of the town, who assigned us good quarters, as by the mer- 
chants and owners of ships ; and had money given us sufficient to 
carry us either to London or back to Hull as we thought fit. 

Had I now had the sense to have gone home, I had been hap- 
py : and my father^ an emblem of our blessed Saviour^s'parable, 
had even killed the fatted calf for me ; for, hearing the ship I went 
in was cast away in Yarmouth Roads, it was a great while before 
he had any assurance that I was not drowned. 

But my ill fate pushed me on with an obstinacy that nothing 
could resist ; and though I had several times loud calls from my 
reason, and my more composed judgment, to go home, yet I had 
no power to do it. — ^I know not what to call this, nor will I urge 
that it is a secret, overruling decree, that hurries us on to be tbe 
insti-uments of our own destruiction, even though it be before us, 
a&nd that we rush upon it with our eyes open. Certainly, nothing 
but some su<^ decreed unavoidable misery attending, and which 
it was impossible foe me to escape, could have pushed me forward 
against the calm reasonings and persuasions of my most retired 
thoughts, and against t^vo such visible instructions as I had met 
with in my first attempt. 

My comrade, who bad helped to harden me beA>re, and who 
was the master's son, was now less forward than I : the first time 
he spoke to me after we were at Yarmouth, which was not till 
two or three days, for we were separated in the town to several 
quarters ; I say, the first time he saw me, it appeared his tone 
was altered, and, looking very melancholy, and shaking his head, 
he asked jfae how I did : telling hb father who 1 was, and how I 
had come this voyage only for a trial, in order to ^o farther 
abroad. His father, turning to me, with a grave and < oucerned 
tone, Young man, says he, you ought never to go t > sea any 
more ; you ought to take this for a plain and visible token, that 
you are net to be a seafaring man. — Why, sir ? said I ; will you 
go to sea no more ?— That is another case, said he ; it is my 
calling, and therefore my duty ; but as you made this voyage fot 
a trial, you see what a taste Heaven has given you of what you 
are to expect if you persist. Perhaps this has all befallen us ou 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



13 ADVENTURES OF 

jroiir account, like Jonah in the ship of Tarshish.— Pray, conttnitet 
he, what ar« yon, and on what account did yon go to sea ? Upon 
that I told hkn aome of ray story ; at the end of which he burst 
out with a strange kind of passion. What had I done, said he, 
that such an unhappy wretch should come into my ship ! I would 
not set my foot in the same ship with thee again for a thousand 
pounds. This indeed was, as I said, an excursion of his spirits, 
which were yet agitated by the sense of his loss, and was farther 
than hm could hate authority to go.-~However, he afterwards 
talked very gravely to me ; exhorted me to go back to my.fathor, 
and not tempt Providence to my ruin ; told me, I might see a 
visible hand of Heaven against me ; and, young man, said he, 
depend upon it, if you do not go back, wherever you go, you will 
meet with nothing but disasters and disappointments, till your 
father's words are fulfilled upon you. 

We parted soon after, for I made him little answer, and I saw 
him no more ; which way he went, I know not : as for me, having 
some money in my pocket, I travelled to London by land ; and 
there, as well fus on the road, had many struggles with myself 
what course of life I should take, and whether 1 should go homo 
or^go to sea. As to going home, shame opposed the best motionf 
that offered to my thoughts; and it immediately occurred to me 
how I should be laughed at among the neighbours, and should be 
ashamed to see, not my father and mother only, but even every 
body else. From whence I have often since observed, that men 
are not ashamed to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not 
ashamed of the action, for which they ought jtotly to be esteemed 
fools ; but are ashamed of the returning, which only can make 
them be esteemed wise men. 

In this state of lifo, however, I remained some time, uncertain 
what measures to take, and what course of life to lead. An irre- 
sistible reluctance continued to going home; and as I stayed 
a while, the remembrance of the distress I had been in wore off; 
and, as tha^ abated, the little motion I had in my desires to 
a return wore off with it, till at last I quite laid aside the thoughts 
of it, and lookod out for a voyage. That evil influence whiiih 
carried me first away from my father's house, that hurried me 
into the wild and indigested notion of raising my fortune, and 
that impressed those conceits so forelMy upon me, as to make me 
deaf to all ^ood advice, and to the entreaties, and eveb the com- 
mands of my father ; I say, the same influence, whatever it was, 
presented the most unfortunate of all enterprises to my view ; 
and I weot on board a vessel bound to the coast of Africa • nr 
as our sailors vulgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSOIf CRDSOE. 13 

Jt i?as my great misfortune, that in all these adventures 1 did 
aot ship myself as a sailor ; whereby, though I miglit indeed have 
worked a little harder than ordinary, yet, at the same time, I had 
(earned the duty and office of a foremast-man, and in time might 
have qualified myself for a mate or lieutenant, if not a master : 
but as it was always my fate to choose for the worse, so I did 
here ; for having money in my pocket, and good clothes upon my 
back, I would sdways go on board in the habit of a gentleman . 
and so I neither had any business in the ship, nor learned to do 
any. It was my lot, first of all, to fall into pretty good company 
in London ; which does not always happen to such loose and mis- 
guided young fellows as I then was; the devil, generally, not 
omitting to lay some snare for them very early. , Bnt it was not 
so with me : I first fell acquainted with the master of a ship, who 
had been on the coast of Guinea, and who, having had very good 
success there, was resolved to go again. He, taking a fancy to 
my conversation, which was not at all disagreeable at that time, 
and hearing me say I had a mind to see the world, told me, that if I 
would go the voyage wVth favm, I «hQUld be at no expense ; I 
should be his messmate and his companion; and if I could 
carry any thing with me, I should have all the advantage of it 
that the trade would admit ; and perhaps I might meet with some 
encouragement. I embraced the offer, and, entering into a strict 
friendship with this captain, who was an honest and plain-dealing 
man, I w«ut the voyage with him, and carried a smiCll adventure 
with me ; which, by the disinterested honesty of my friend the 
captain, I increased very considerably ; for I carried about forty 
pounds in such toys and trifiea as the captain directed me to buy. 
This forty pounds I had mustered together by the assistance of some 
of my relations whom I corresponded with ; and who, I believe, got 
my father, or, at least, my mother, to contribute so much as that 
to my first adventure. This was the only voyage which I may 
say was successful in all my adventures, and which I owe to the 
integrity and honesty of my friend the captain ; under whom also 
I got a competent knowledge of the mathematics and the rules of 
navigation, learned how to keep an account of the ship^s course, 
take an observation, and, in short, to understand some things Uiat 
were needful to be understood by a sailor ; for, as he took delight to 
instruct me, I took delight to learn ; and, in a word, this voyage 
made me both a sailor and a merchant : for I brought home five 
pounds nine ounces of gold dust for my adventure, which yielded 
me in London, at my return, almost three hundred pounds, and 
this filled me with those aspiring thoughts which have since st 
completed my ruin 

2 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION III. 

EOBIlitSOM 8 CAFnVITT AT BAUJBE— E8CAPB WITH XVmt— ARRIVAL AT THM 
BBAZIL6. 

I WAS now set up for a Guinea trader ; and my friend, to my 
great misfortune, dying soon after his arriral, I resolved to go the 
same voyage again ; and I embarKed in the same vessel with one 
wh > was his mate in the former voyage, and had now got the 
command of the ship. This waa the unhappiest voyage that ever 
man made ; for though I did not carry quite a hundred pounds of 
my new-gained wealth, so that I had two hundred pounds left, 
"and which I lodged with my friend's widow, who was very just 
to me, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes in this voyage ; and the 
first was this, viz.— our ship, making her course towards the 
Canary Islands, or rather between those islands and the African 
shore. Was surprbed, in the gray of the morning, by a Turkish 
rover, of Sallee, who gave chase to us with all the sail she could 
make. We crowded also as much canvass as our yards wovid 
spread, or our masts carry, to get clear; but finding the pirate 
gained upon us, and would certainly come up with us in a few 
hours, we prepared to fight, our ship having twelve guns, and the 
rover eighteen. About three in the afternoon he came up witii 
us ; and bringing to, by mistake, just athwart our quarter, instead 
of athwart our stem, as he intended, we brought eight of oui- 
guns to bear on that side, and poured in a broadside upon him. 
which made him sheer oflf again, after returning our fire, and 
pouring in also his small shot from near two hundred men which 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



KaBiiisoir c&iTsoK. 15 

Le had on board. Bowever, we had not a man touehed, all our 
men keeping close. He prepared ^o attack us again, and we to 
defend ourselves ; but laying us on s>oard the next time upon our 
other quarter, he entered sixty men upon our decks, who imme- 
diately fell to cutting and hacking the sails and rigging. We 
plied them w'th spaall shot, half-pikes, powder-chests, and such 
like, and cleared our deck of them twice. However, to cut short 
tbb melancholy part of our story, our ship being disabled^ and 
three of our men killed and eight wounded, wje were obliged to 
yield, and were carried all prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging 
to the Moors. 

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first I appre- 
hended : nor was I carried up the country to the emporor*s court, 
as the rest of our men were, but was kept by the captain of the^ 
rover as his proper prize, and made his slave, being young and 
nimble, and fit for his business. At this surprising change of my 
circumstances, from a merchant to a miserable slave, I was per- 
fectly overwhelmed; and now looked back upon my father's 
prophetic discourse to me, that I should be miserable, and have 
none to relieve me; which I thought was now so effectually 
brought to pass, that it could not be worse; that now the hand 
of Heaven had overtaken nie, and I was undone, without re- 
demption. But, alas! this was but a taste of the misery I was 
to go through, as will appear in the sequel of this story. 

As my now patron, or master, had taken me home to his house, 
so I was in hopes he would take me with him when he went to 
sea again, believing that it would» some time or other, be his fate 
to be taken by a Spanish or Portuguese man of war, and that 
then I should be set at liberty. But this hope of mine was soon 
taken away ; for when he went to sea, he left me on shore, to 
look after his little garden, and do the common drudgery of 
slaves about his house ; and when he came home again from his 
rruise, he ordered me to lie in the cabin, to look after the ship. 

Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what method I 
might take to effect it, but found no way that had the least pro- 
bability in it. Nothing presented to make the supposition of it 
rationed ; for I had nobody to communicate it to that would em- 
bark with me ; no- fellow-slave, no !Ebiglishman, Irishman, or 
Scotchman there but myself; so that for two years, though 1 
often pleased myself with the imagination, yet I never had the 
least enouraging prospect of putting it in practice. 

After about two years, an odd circumstance presented itself, 
which put the old thought of. making some attempt for my liberty 
again in my head. My patron lying at home longer than uf ual. 



Digitized by VjOOQ iC 



16 ADYElfTU&Xt OP 

Without fitting out his ship, which, as I heard, was for want of 
money, he used constantly, once or thrice a week, sometimes 
oftener, if the weather was fair, to take the ship's pinnace, and go 
out into the road a fishing ; and as he always took me and a young 
Moresco with him to row the boat, we made him very merry, and 
1 proved very dexterous in catching fish, insomuch that sometimes 
he would send me with a Moor, one of his Kinsmen, and the youth, 
the Moresco, as they called him, to catch a dish offish for him. 

It happened one time, that going a fishing in a stark calm 
morning, a fog rose so thick that though we were not half a league 
from the shore, we lost sight of it; and rowing, we knew not 
whither, or which way, we laboured all day and all the next night, 
and when the morning came, we found we had pulled off to sea, 
instead of pulling in for die shore, and that we were at least two 
leagues firom the shore : however, we got well in again, though 
with a great deal of labour, and some danger, for the wind began 
to blow pretty fresh in the morning ; but particularly we were all 
vi»ry hungry. 

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take more 
care of himself for the future; and having lying by him the long- 
boat of our English ship he had taken, he resolved he would not 
go a fishing any more without a compass and some provision ; so 
he ordered the carpenter of the ship, who was an English slave, 
to build a little state-room or cabin in the middle of the long-boat^ 
Hke that of a barge, with a place to stand behind it, to steer and 
haul home the main sheet, and room before for a hand or two to 
stand and work the sails. She sailed with what we call a 
shoulder-of-mutton sail, and the boom jibbed over the top of the 
cabin, which lay very snug and low, and had in it room for him 
to lie, with a slave or two, and a table to eat on, with some small 
lockers to put in some bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to 
drink, and particularly his bread, rice, and coffee. 

We went frequently out with this boat a fishing, and as I was 
most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went without me. 
It happened, that he had appointed to go out in this boat, either for 
pleasure or for fish, with two or three Moors of some distinction 
in that place, and for whom he had provided extraordinarily, and 
had therefore 6ent on board the boat, overnight, a larger store of 
provision than ordinary, and had ordered me to get ready three 
fusees, with powder and shot, which were on board his ship, foi 
* that they designed some sport of fowling as well as fishing. 

I got all things ready as he directed, and waited the next morn- 
ing with the boat washed clean, her ensign and pendants out, and 
e^ery thing to accommodate his guests : when, by and by, my 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



BOBiirsoir cKutojs. , 17 

patr<m eame on board alone, a&d told me his guests had put off 
goug, upon soffle business that fell out, and ordered me, with the 
man and boy, as usual, to go out with the boat, and catch them 
^some fish, for that his frimids were to sup at his house ; and com- 
manded, that as soon as I had got some fish, I should bring it 
home to his house : all which I prepared to do. 

This moment my former notions of deliverance darted into my 
thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a little ship at my 
command ; and my master being gone, I prepared to furnish my- 
self^ not for a fishing business, but for a voyage ; though I knew 
not, neither did I so much as consider, whither I should, steer ; 
for any where, to get out of that piacoi was my way. 

My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak to this 
Moor, to get^ something for our subsistence on board ; for I told 
him we must not presume to eat of our patron's bread : he said, 
that was true ; so he brought a large basket of rusk or biscuit, of 
their kind, and three jars with fresh water, into the boat. I knew 
where my patron's case of bottles stood, which it was evident, by 
the make, were taken out of some English prize, and I conveyed 
them into the boat while the Moor was on shore, as if they had 
been there before for our master. I conveyed also a great lump 
of bees-waic into the boat, which weighed above half a hundred- 
weight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a 
hammer, all which were of great use to us afterwards, especially 
the wax, to make candles. Another trick I tried upon him, 
which he innocently came into also : his name was Ismael, whom 
they call Muley, or Moley ; so I called to him, Moley, said I, oui 
patron's guns are on board the boat, can you not get a little 
powder and shot 1 it may be we may kill some alcamies (fowls 
like our curlews) for ourselves, for I know he keeps the gunner's 
stores in the ship. — ^Yes, says he, I will bring some ; and accord- 
ingly he brought a great leather pouch, which held about a pound 
and a half of powder, or rather more, and another with shot, that 
had 6.ye or six pounds, with some bullets, and put all into the 
boat: at the ssune time I found some powder of my master's 
in the great cabin, with which I filled one of the large bottles in 
the case, which was almost empty, pouring what was in it into 
another ; and thus furnished with every thing needful, we sailed 
out of the 7>ort to fish. The castle, which is at the entrance of the 
port, knew who we were, and took no notice of us ; and we were 
not above a mile out of the port, before we hauled in our sail, an^ 
set us down to fish. The wind blew from N. N. E. which was 
contrary to my desire ; for, had it blown southerly, I had been 
sure to have made the coast of Spain, and at last reached to the 

2* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



IB 4DTXirTII&X8 OP 

bay of Cadiz , but my resokttioiis wore, blow which way it would, 
I woald be gone from the horrid place where I wai, and leave 
the rest to fate. 

After we had fished »ome time and catched nothing, for when 
I had fish oa ray hook I would not pull them tq>, that he might 
not see them, I said to the Moor, This will not do ; our master 
will not be thus served ; we must etand farther ofi*. He, thinking 
no harm, agreed ; and being at the head of the boat, set the sails ; 
aud as I had the helm, I run the boat near a league farther, and 
then brought to, as if I would fish. Then giving the boy the 
helm, I stepped forward to where the Moor was, and I took him 
by surprise, with my arm under his waist, and tossed him clear 
overboard into the sea. He rose immediately, for he swam like a 
cork, and called to me, begged to be taken in, and told me he 
would go ail the world over with me. He 6wam so strong after 
the boat, that he would have reached me very quickly, there 
being but little wind ; upon which I steppe.d into the cabin, and 
fetching one of the fowling pieces, I presented it at him, and told 
him, I had done him no hurt, and if he would be quiet, I would 
do him none : But, said I, you swim well enough to reach the 
shore, and the seals calm ; make the best of your way to shore, and 
1 will do you no harm : but if you come near die boat, I will shoot 
you through the head ; for I am resolved to have my liberty. So he 
turned himself about, and swam for the shore ; and I make no doubt 
but he reached it With Sase, iWr he was an excellent swimmer. 

I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me and 
have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to trust him. 
When he was gone, I turned to the boy, whom they called Xury, 
and said to him, Xury, if you will be faithful to me I will make 
you a great man ; but if you will net stroke your face to be true 
to me (that-is, swear by Mahomet and his father's beard), I must 
throw you into the sea too. The boy smiled in ray face, and 
spoke so innocently, that I could not mistrust him ; and swore to 
be faithful to mo, and go all over the world with me. 

While I was in view of the Moor that was swimraing, I stood 
out directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching to windward, 
that they might think me gone towards the Strait's mouth (as 
indeed any one that had been in their wits must have been sup- 
posed to do) ; for who would have supposed we were sailing on 
to the southward, to the truly Barbarian coast, where whole na- 
tions of Negroes were sure to surroimd us with thoir canoes, and 
destroy us ; where we could never once go on shore but we 
should be devoured by savage beasts, or more merciless davas;es 
of human kind ? 



Digitized l^y 



Google 



KOBIirSOlV C&UBOK. 19 

Bm^as Booa as tt grew dusk in the eyeniog, I changed my 
t^iirse, and steered directly south and by east, bending my course 
a little toward the east, that I might keep in with the shore ; a ad 
having a fair fresh gale of wind, and a smooth quiet sea, I made 
Bueh sail, that I believe by the next day, at three o'clock in the 
afternoon, when I made the land, I could not be less than one 
hundred and fifty miles south of Sallee, quite beyond the Emperor 
of Morocco's dominions, or indeed of any other king thereabout : 
for we saw no people. 

Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and the dread- 
ful apprehensions I had of falling into their hands, that I would 
not stop, or go on shore, or come to an anchor, the wind continu- 
ing fair, till I had sailed in that manner five days ; and then the 
wind shifting to the southward, I concluded also that if any of our 
vessels were in chase of me, they also would now give over : so I 
ventured to make to the coast, and came to an anchor in the mouth 
of a little river ; I knew not what or where, neither what latitude, 
what country, what nation, or what river. I neither saw, nor 
desired to see, any people ; the principal thing t wanted was 
fresh water. We came into this creek in the evening, resolving 
to swim on shore as soon as it was dark, and discover the country . 
but as soon as it was quite dark, we beard such dreadful noises of 
the barking, roaring, and howling of wild creatures, of we knew 
not what kinds, that the poor boy wa^ ready to die with fear, and 
begged of me not to go on shore till day. Well, Xury, said I, 
then I will not; but it may be we may see men by day, 
who will be as bad to us as those lions.— Then we may give them 
the shoot-gun, says Xury, laughing ; make them run away. Such 
English Xury spoke by conversing among us slaves. However, 
I Was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I gave him a dram out 
of our patron's case of bottles to cheer him up. After all, Xury's 
advice was good, and I took it. We dropped our little anchor, 
and lay still all night : I say, still, for we slept none ; for in two 
or three hours we saw vast creatures (we knew not what to call 
them), of many sorts, come down to the seashore, and run into 
the water, waUowing and washing themselves, for the pleasure of 
cooling themselves ; and they made such hideous bowlings and 
yellings, that I never indeed heard the like. 

Xury was dreadfully frightened, and indeed so was 1 too ; but 
we were both more frightened when we heard one of these mighty 
creatures swimming towards our boat : we could not see him, but 
we might hear him, by his blowing, to be a monstrous, huge, and 
furious beast. Xury said it was a lion, and it might be so, for 
Aught I know ; but poor Xury cried to me to weigh the anchor 



Digitized 



by Google 



iX) ADVENTURES Or 

and row away. No, says I, Xury ; we can slip onr cable widi t 
bnoy to it, and go off to sea : they cannot follow us far. I had 
no sooner said so, but I perceived the creature (whatever it was) 
within* two oars length, which something surprised me : however, 
I immediately stepped to the cabin door, and, taldng up my gun, 
fired at hiiA ; upon which he immediately turned about and swam 
to the shore again. 

But it is impossible to describe the horrible noises, and hideous 
cries and bowlings that were raised, as well upon the edge of the 
shore as higher within the country, upon the noise or report of the 
gun ; a thing, I believe, those creatures had never heard before. 
This convinced me there was no going onshore for us in the night 
upon that coast : and how to venture on shore in the day, was 
another question too ; for to have fallen into the hands of any of 
the savages, had been as bad as to have fallen into the paws of 
lions and tigers ; at least, we were equally apprehensive of the 
danger of it. 

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore somewhere 
or other for water, for we had not a pint left in the boat : when 
and where to get it was the point : Xury said, if I would let him 
go on shore with one of the jars, he would find if there was any 
water, and bring some to me. I asked him why he would go ; 
why I should not go, and he stay in the boat. The boy answered 
with so much affectioz:, that he made me love him ever after 
Says he. If wild mans some, they eat me, you go away. — ^Well 
Xury, said I, we will both go ; and if the wild mans come, we will 
kill them ; they shall eat neither of us. So I gave Xury a piece 
of rusk bread to eat, and a dram out of our patron's case of bottles, 
which I mentioned before ; and we hauled in the boat as near the 
shore as we thought was proper, and so waded to shore, carrying 
nothing but our arms, and two jars for water. 

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the coming 
of canoes with savages down the river ; but the boy, seeing a low 
place about a mile up the country, rambled to it ; and, by and 
by, I saw him come running towards me. I thought he was pur- 
sued by some savage, or frightened by some wild beast, and I 
therefore ran forwards to help him ; but when I came nearer to 
him, I saw something hanging over his shoulders, which was a 
creature that he had shot, like a hare, but different in colour, and 
longer legs : however, we were very glad of it, and it was very 
good meat : but the great joy that poor Xury came with, was to 
tell me he had found good water, and seen no wild mans. 

But we found afterwards, that we need not take such pains for 
v^ater : for a little higher up the creek where we were, we foimO 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ftOBllfHOll CRU80X* 2 J 

the water fresh when the tide was out, which flowed but a little 
way up ; so we filled our jars, and, having a fire, feasted on the 
hare we had killed ; and prepared to go on our way, having 
seen no footsteps of any human creature in that part of the 
country. 

As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew very 
well that the islands of the Canaries, and the Cape de Verd islands 
also, lay not far from the coast. But as 1 had no instruments to 
take an observation, to find what latitude we were in ; and did 
not exactly know, or at least remember, what latitude they were 
in, I knew not where to look for them, or when to stand o£f to 
sea towards them, otherwise I might now have easily found some 
of these islands. But my hope was, that if I stood along this 
coast till I came to the part where the English traded, I should 
find some of their vessels upon their usual design of trade, that 
would relieve and take us in. 

By the best of my calculation, the place where I now was, 
must be that country which, lying between the Emperor of Mo- 
rocco's dominions and the Negroes, lies waste, and uninhabited, 
except by wild beasts ; the Negroes having abandoned it, and gone 
farther south, for fear of the Moors, and the Moors not thinking 
it worth inhabiting, by reason of its barrenness : and, indeed, both 
forsaking it because of the prodigious numbers of tigers, lions, 
leopards, and other furious creatures which harbour there : so that 
the Moors use it for their hunting only, where they go like an 
army, two or three thousand men at a time ; and* indeed, for near 
a hundred miles together upon this coast, w« saw nothing but a 
waste, uninhabited country by day, and heard nothing but bowl- 
ings and roaring of wild beasts by night. 

Once, or twice, in the day time, I thought I saw the Pico of 
TeneriCe, being the top of the mountain Tenerifle in the Canaries, 
and had a great mind to venture out, in hopes of reaching thither ; 
but having tried twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds ; 
the sea also going too high for my little vessel ; so I resolved to 
pursue my first design, and keep along the shore. 

Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water, after we 
had left this place ; and once, in particular, being early in the 
morning, we came to an anchor under a little point of land which 
was pretty high ; and the tide beginning to flow, we lay still, to go 
farther in. Xury, whose eyes were more about him than, it 
seems, mine were, calls softly to me, and tells me, that we had 
best go farther off* the shore ; for, says he, Look, yonder lies a 
dreadful monster on the side of that hillock, fast asleep. I looked 
where he pointed, and saw a dreadful monster indeed, for it w at 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



L. 



22 ADVKrfTURES OP 

a terrible great ]ioii> that lay on the side of the shore, under tha 
shade of a pieceof the hilJ, that hnng, as it were, over him. Xnry, 
says I, you shall go on shore and kill him. Xnry looked fright- 
ened, and said, Me kiU ! he eat me at one mouth : one mouthful he 
meant. However, I said no more to the boy, but bade him be 
still ; and I took our biggest gun, which was almost musket bore, 
and loaded it with a good charge of powder, and wi& two slugs, 
and laid it down ; then I loaded another gun with two bullets ; 
and a third, for we had three pieces, I loaded with five smaller 
bullets. I took the best aim I could with the first piece, to have 
shot him in the head ; but he lay so, with his leg raised a little 
above his nose, that the slugs hit his leg about the knee, and 
broke the bone : he started up, growling at first, but finding his 
leg broke, fell down again, and then got up upon three legs, and 
gave the most hideous roar that ever I heard. I was a little 
surprised that I had not hit him on the head ; however, I took up 
the second piece immediately ; and though he began to move off, 
fired again, and shot him in the head, and had the pleasure to see 
him drop, and make but little noise, but lie struggling for life. 
Then X\iry took heart, and would have me let him go on shore. 
Well, go, said I : so the boy jumped into the water, and taking a 
little gun in one hand, swam to shore with the other hand, and 
coming close to the creature, put the muzzle of the piece to his 
ear, and shot him in the head again, which despatched him quite. 

This was game, indeed, to us, but it was no food ; and I was 
very sorry to lose three charges of powder and shot upon a crea- 
ture that was good for nothing to us. However, Xury said he 
would have some of him ; so he comes on board, and asked me 
to give him the hatchet : For what Xury? said I. Me cut off his 
head, said he. However, Xury could not cut tfff his head ; but he 
cut off a foot, and brought it with him, and it was a monstrous 
great one. I bethought myself; however, that perhaps the skin of 
him might, one way or other, be of some value to us ; and I re- 
solved to take off his skin, if I could. So Xury and I went to 
work with him : but Xury was much the better workman at it, for 
I knew very ill how to do it. Indeed, it took us both up the 
whole day; but at last we got off the hide of him, and spread- 
ing it on the top of our cabin, the sun effectually dried 't in two 
days* time, and it afterwards served me to lie upon. 

After this stop we made on to the southward continually, for 
ten or twelve days, living very sparingly on our provisions, which 
began to abate very much, and going no oftener into the shore 
than we were obliged to for fresh water. My design in this was 
to make the river Gambia, or Senegal ; that is to say, any where 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUsem. 23 

ftboiit ^e Cape de Verd, where I was in hopes to meet with 
some E}iropean ship ; and if I did Bot, I knew not what eourse I 
had to take, bat to seek for the islands, or perish among the 
Negroes. I knew that all the ships from Europe, which sailed 
either to the coast of Guinea, or to Brazil, or to the East Indies, 
made this cape, or those islands : and, in a word, I put the whole 
of my fortune upon this single point, either that I musf meet with 
some ship, or must perish. 

When I had~ pursued this resolution about ten days longer, as 1 
have said, I began to see that the land was inhabited ; and in two 
or three places, as we sailed by, we saw people stand upon the 
shore to look at us : we could also perceive they were quite black, 
and stark naked. I was once inclined to have gone on shore to 
them : but Xury was my better counsellor, and said to^me. No go, 
no go. However, I hauled in nearer the shore, that I might talk 
to them ; and I found they ran along the shore by me a good way. 
I observed they had no weapons in their hands, except one, who 
had a long slender stick, which Xury said was a Icmce, and that 
they would throw them a great way with good aim ; so I kept at a 
distance, but talked to them by signs, as well as I could, and par- 
ticularly made signs for something to eat. They beckoned to me 
to stop my boat, and they would fetch me some meat : upon this, 
I lowered the top of my sail, and lay by, and two of them ran up 
into the country ; and in less than half an hour came back, and 
brought with them two pieces of dry flesh and some com, such as 
is the produce of their country ; but we neither knew what the 
one or the other was ; however, we were willing to accept it. 
But how to eome at it was our next dispute, for I was not for ventu- 
ring on shore to them, and they were as much afraid of us : but 
they took a safe way for us all, for they brought it to the shore, 
and laid it down, and went and stood a great way off till we fetch- 
ed it en board, and then came close to us again. 

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to make 
them amends : but an opportunity offered that very instant to 
oblige them wonderfully ; for white we were lying by the shore, 
came two mighty creatures, one pursuing the other (as we took it) 
with great fury, from the mountains to^vards the sea ; whether it 
was the male pursuing the female, or whether they were in sport 
or in rage, we could not tell, any more than we could tell whether 
it was usual or strange ; but I believe it was the ' latter, because, 
in the first place; those ravenous creatures seldom appear but in 
the night , and, in the second place, we found the people terribly 
frightened, especially the women. The man that had the lance, 
or dart, did not fly from them, but the rest did ; however, as the 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



S4 ADVENTURKS OF 

two creatures ran directly into the water, they du\ not feem te 
offer to fall upon any of the Negroes, but plunged themselves 
into the sea, and swam about, as if they had come for their diver- 
sion : at last, one of them began to come nearer our boat than 1 
at first expected ; but I lay ready for him, fori had loaded my gun 
with all possible expedition, and bade Xury load both the others. 
As soon as he came fairly within my reach, I fired, and shot him 
directly in the head : immediately he sunk down into the water, 
but rose instantly, and plunged up and down, as if he was strug^ 
gling for life, and so indeed he was : he immediately made to the 
shore ; but between the wound, which was his mortal hurt, and 
the strangling of the water, he died just before he reached the 
shore. 

It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor crea- 
tures, at the noise and fire of my gun ; some of them were even 
ready to die for fear, and fell down as dead with the very terror; 
but when they saw the creature dead, and sunk in the water, and 
that I made signs to them to come to the shore, they took heart 
and came to the shore, and began to search for the rreature. I 
found him by his blood staining the water ; and by the help of t 
rope, which I slung round him, and gave the Negroes to haul, the} 
dragged him on shore, and found that it was a most curious leopard, 
spotted, and fine to an admirable degree ; and the Negroes held 
up their bauds with admiration, to think what it was I had killed 
him with. 

The other creature, frightened with the flash of fire and the 
noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly to the moun- 
tains from whence they came ; nor could I, at that distance, know 
what it was. I found quickly the Negroes were for eating the 
flesh of this creature, so I was willing to have them take it as a 
favour from me ; which, when I made signs to them that they 
might take hira, they were very thankful for. Immediately they 
fell to work with him ; and though they had no knife, yet with 
a sharpened piece of wo^d, they took off his skin as readily, and 
much more readily, than we could have done with a knife. They 
offered me some of the flesh, which I declined, making as if I 
would give it them, but made signs for the skin, which they gave 
me very freely, and brought me a great deal more cf their pro- 
visions, which, though I did not understand, yet I accepted. I 
then made signs to ^em for some water, and held out one of my 
jars to them, turning it bottom upward, to show thatit was empty, 
and that I wanted to have^t filled. They called immediately to 
some of their friends, and there came two women, and brought a 
great vessel made of earth, and burnt, as I suppose, in the sun ; 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



* ROBINSON CRUAOE. 25 

thiftibef aet dowft to me, m b^<»e, and I arat Xnrj on tthare wiih 
my jaiBv and fitted theia^^three* 'Die woman were « stark nakad 
as the men. 

I was now ftmoalied mft roots and com, snah a» it waa, and 
water; and teaving my frieadfy Nagroea, i made forward for 
abei^^even 6sfB mOre, w^^est offermg to go near 4ba ahore, tiQ 
I saw ^ land limi out a gpeat length into liie aea, at abent te 
distanee of faor ot five leagc^s befee me ; and dw aea beii% v^ 
eafan, I kept a koge offing, to make this T^ciat At length, donb- 
ling the point, at ahont two leagnea frwn the land, I saw plaiidy 
limd on the ether aide> to seaward : &en I eonelnt^, ns it wss 
moat oa?tatt indteed, that Hm was t^ Cape de Verd, ^d ^em 
^ ifliHida, eafied, fifmn thence, Ca^ de Yeid Mamk. HoweTer, 
they were at a great diatanee, and I eodd net weH teli what I 
hiidbeattodo; for if I a^^ be taken with a gide ef wind, I might 
neither reach one «0¥ ^m eiher. 

In tins ^^lemma) *8 I waa very pensite, I stepped ipto the cabin, 
and siU me dewn, Xury ha^g ike hehn ; when, on a sndden, the 
hof cried ou^ Maater, master, a i^ip with a sjOII and the foolish 
boy was frightened out of his wits, thmking it must needs be some 
of his master's ships sent to pursue us, when I knew wo we/e 
gotten far enough oat oi tiieir reach. I jumped out of the cabin, 
and immediately saw, not only the ship, but what she was, viz., 
that it was a Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was bound to the 
coast of Guinea for Negroes. But, when I observed the course 
she steered, I vras soon convinced they were bound some other 
way, and did not design to come any nearer to the shore : upon 
which, I stretched out to sea as much as I could, resolving to speak 
with them, if poss3)le. 

Widi all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able to 
cMtte in tiieir way, but that they vrauld be gone by before I could 
make any signal to them ; but after I had crowded to the utmost, 
and began to despair, they, it seems, saw me, by the help of their 
perspective glasses, and that it was some European boat, which, 
they sui^Hwed, must belcMig to some ship that was lost ; so they 
shortened sail, to let me come up. I was encouraged with this, 
and as I had my patron's ensign on board, I made a waft of it to 
them, for a signal of distress, and fired a gun, both of which they 
saw ; for they told me they saw the smoke, though they did not 
Iiear the gun. Upon these signals, ttiey very kindly brought to, 
and lay by for me ; uid in about three hours* time I came up witii 
them. 

They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in Spanish, and 
in French, but I understood none of them ; but, at last, a Scotch 

8 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



26 ROBINSON CRV80I. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 






sailor, who was on board, oaUed to ne, and I aaawered hna^ and 

iM him I was an Englishman, that I luid made my eaoaps out of ^ 

slaTery from the Moors, at Sallee : they then bade me eome on 

hoard, and very kindly took me in, and all my goods. 

It was an ineipressiUe joy to me, whieh any one will belieye, 
that I was thns delivered, as I esteemed it, from soeh ft raiseraUe, 
and almost hopeless, oonditton as I was in; and I immediately 
oflfored aU I had to the ei^tain of the i^iip, as a retnm &r my 
deliverance ; but he generously told me, he wonld take nothing 
from me, but that all I had ^Mold be dehTeiod safe to me, when 
I came to the Brazils. For, says he, I have saved your li& on 
no other terms than I would be glad to be saved myself; and it 
may, one time or other, be my lot to be taken up in the saaf 
condition^ Besides, said he, when I carry yon to the Bfasils, «| 
great a way from yonr own eeontry, if I should take from 3Qf • 
what you have, you will be starved theie, and then I on^ Uig 
away that life I have given. No, no, Senhor In^ez (Mr. English^ 
man), says'^he, I will carry you thither in charity, and these 
thmgs wUl help to bay your sohaistence thfia»i and yonr paasagw * 

home again. f{ 

•I 



J 



SECTION IV. 

HE SETTLES IN THE BBAZIL8 AS A PLANTER. — MAKES ANOTHER VOTAGB, 
AND IS SHIPWRECKED. 

As he was charitable m this proposal, so he was just in the per- 
formance, to a tittle ; for he ordered the seamen, that none should 
offer to touch any thing I had : then he took every thing into his own 
possession, and gave me back an exact inventory of them, that I 
might have them, even so much as my three earthen jars. 

As to my boat, it was a very good one ; and that he saw, and told 
me he woidd buy it of me for the ship's use ; and asked me what I 
would have for it. I told him, he had been so generous to me in 
every thing, that I could not offer to make any price of the boat, 
but left it entirely to him : upon which, he told me he would give 
me a note of hand to pay me eighty pieces of eight for it at Brazil ; 
and when it came there, if any one offered to give more, he would 
make it up. He offered me also sixty pieces of eight more for my 
boy Xury, which I was loath to take ; not that I was not willing 
to let the captain have him, but I was very loath to sell the poor 
boy's liberty, who had assisted me so faithfully in procuring my 
own. However, when I let him know my reason, he owned it to 
be just, and offered me this medium, that he would give the boy an 
obligation to set him free in ten years, if he turned Christian : upon 
this, and Xury saying he was wiling to go to him, I let the captain 
have him. 

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived in the 
Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints' Bay, in about twenty-two 
days after. And now I was once more delivered from the most mis- 
erable of all conditions of life ; and what to do next with myself, I 
was now to considei. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



^d APrENTCRES OP 

The generous treat.:KT.t Cio captain gave me, I can never enough 
remember ; he would take nothing* of me for my passage, gave me 
twenty ducats for the leopard's skin, and forty for the lion's skin, 
which I had in my boat, and caused every thing I had in the ship 
to be punctually delivered to me ; and what I was willing to sell, 
he bought of me ; such as the case of , bottles, two of my guns, and 
a piece of the lump of bees-wax,— 4br I had made candles q[ the 
rest: in a word, I made about two hundred and twenty pieces of 
eight of all my cargo; and with this stock, I went on shore in tbs 
Brazils. 

I had not been long here, before I was recommended to the 
house of a good honest man, like himself, who had an ingenio as 
they call it (that is, a plantation and a sugar-house). I lived with 
him some time, and acquainted myself, by that means, with the 
manner of planting and of making sugar : and seeing how well the 
planters lived, and how they got rich suddenly, I resolved, if I 
could get a license to settle there, I would turn planter among them ; 
endeavouring, in the mean time, to find out some way to get my 
money, which I had left in London, remitted to me. To this pur- 
pose, getting a kind of a letter of naturalization, I purchased as 
much land that was unoured as my money would reach, and foruN 
ed a jdan for my plantation and settlement ; such a one as might 
be suitable to the stock which I proposed to myjself to receive from 
England. 

I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but bom of English 
parents, whose name was Wells, and in much such circumstances 
as I was. I call him my neighbour, because his plantation lay next 
to mine, and we went on very sociably togedier. My stock was 
but low, as well as his ; and we rather planted for food than any 
thing else, for about two years. However, we began to increase, 
and our land began to come into order ; so that the third year we 
planted some tobacco, and made each of us a large piece of ground 
ready for planting canes in the year to come : but we both wanted 
help ; and now I found, more than before, I had done wrong in part- 
ing with my boy Xuiy. 

But, alas ! for me to do wrong, that never did right, was no 
great wonder. I had no remedy but to go on : I had got into an 
employment quite remote to my genius, and directly contrary to 
the life I delighted in, and for which I forsook my father's house, 
and broke through all his good advice : nay, I was coming into 
the very middle station, or upper degree of low life, which my 
father advised me to before ; and which, if I resolved to go on 
with, I might as well have staid at home, and never have fatigff^d 
myself in the world, as I had done : and I used often to sz^ to 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 20 

myself, I could have done this as well in England, among my 
friends, as have gone five thousand miles off to do it among 
strangers and savages, in a wilderness, and at such a distance as 
never to hear from any part of the world that iiad the least knowl- 
edge of me. 

In this manner, I used to look upon my condition with the ut- 
most regret. I had nobody to converse with, but now and then 
this neighbour; no work to be done, but by the labour of my 
hands : and I used to say, I lived just like a man cast away upon 
some desolate island, that had nobody there but himself. But 
how just has it been ! and how should all men reflect^ that when 
^ey compare their present conditions with others that are worse, 
Heaven may oblige them to make the exchange, and be convinced 
of their former felicity by their ejcperience : I say, how just has it 
been, that the truly solitary life I reflected on, in an idand of mere 
desdatioo, should be my lot, who had so oflen unjustly compared 
it with the life which I then led, in which, had I continued, I had, 
in all probability, been exceedingly prosperous and rich. 

I was, in some degree, settled in my measures for carrying on 
^e plantation, before my kind friend, the captain of the i^ip that 
took me up at sea, went back ; for the ship remained there, in 
providing his lading, and preparing for his voyage, near three 
months ; when, telling him what little stock I had left behind me 
in London, he gave me this friendly. and sincere advice: Senhor 
Inglez, says he, (for so he always called me,) if you will give me 
letters, and a procuration here in form to me, with orders to the 
person who has yonr money in London, to send your effects to 
Lisbod, to such persons as I shall direct, and in such goods as 
are proper for this country, I will bring you the produce of them, 
God willing, at my return : but, since human af&irs are all sub- 
ject to changes and disasters, I would have you give orders for 
but one hundred pounds sterling, which, you say, is half your 
stock, and let the hazard be run for the first, so that if it come 
safe, you may order the rest the same way ; and, if it miscarry, 
you may have the other half to have recourse to for your supply. 
This was so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly, that I 
could not but be convinced it was the best course I could take; 
so I accordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman with whom 
I left my money, and a procuration to the Portuguese captain, as he 
d^ired me. 

I wrote the English captain's widow a full account of all my 
adventures; my slavery, escape, and how I had met with the 
Portuguese captain at sea, the humanity of his behaviour, and 
what conditioa I ii^as now in, with all other necessary directions 

3* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



30 ADVENTURES OF 

for my supply ; and when this honest captain came to Li^xm, he 
found means, by some of the EngUsh merchants there, to send 
over, not the order only, but a full account of my story to a 
merchant at London, who represented it effectually to her ; where- 
upon she not only delivered the money, but, out of her own pocket, 
sent the Portuguese captain a very handsome present for his hu- 
manity and charity to me. 

The merchant in London, vesting this himdred pounds in Eng- 
lish goods, such as the captain had wrote for, sent them directly 
to him at Lisbon, and he brought them all safe to me at the 
Brazils; among which, without my direction, (for I was too 
young in my business to think of them,) he had taken care to 
have all sorts of tools, iron work, and utensils, necessary for my 
plantation, and which were of great use to me. When this cargo 
arrived, I thought my fortune made, for I was surprised with ^e 
joy of it ; and my good steward, the captain, had laid out the five 
pounds, which my friend had sent him as a present for himseK^ 
to purchase and bring me over a servant, under bond -for six 
years' service, and would not accept of any consideration, except 
a litde tobacco, which I would have him accept, being of my 
own produce. Neither was this all: but my goods being all 
English manufactures, such as cloths, stuffs, baize, and things 
particularly valuable and desirable in the country, I found means 
to sell them to a very great advantage ; so that I might say, I had 
more than four times the value of my first cargo, and was now 
infinitely beyond my poor neighbour, I mean in the advancement 
of my plantatioit; for the first thing I did, I bought me a Negro 
slave, and a European servant also ; I mean another besides that 
which the captain brought me from Lisbon. 

But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very means of 
our adversity, so was it with me. I went on the next year with 
great success ia my plantation ; I raised fifty great rolls of tobacco 
on my own ground, more than I had disposed of for necessaries 
among my neighbours ; and these fifty rolls, being each of above 
one hundred pounds weight, were well cured,^ and laid by against 
the return of the fleet from Lisbon : and now^ Jncxeasing in 4)usi- 
ness and in wealth, my head began to be full of projects and un- 
dertakings beyond my reach ; such as are, indeed, often the ruin 
of the best heads in business. Had I continued in the station I 
was now in, I had room for all the happy things to have yet be- 
fallen me, for which my father so earnestly recommended a quiet, 
retired life, and which he had so sensibly described the middle 
station of life to be full of: but other things attended me, and I 
was Still to be the wilful agent of all my own miseries ; and, par- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINiON CRV80B. 31 

ticolarly, to increase my fault, and double the refleotlolis upon my- 
self, which in my future sorrows I shouM have leisure to make, siU 
these miscarriages were procured by my apparent obstinate adher- 
ing to my ^lish inclination, of wandering about, and pursuing that 
inclination, in contradiction to the clearest views of doing myself « 
good in a fair and plain pursuit of ^ose prospects, and those meas- 
ures of life, which nature and providence concurred to present me 
with, and to make my duty. 

As I had once done thus in breaking away from my parents, 
80 I could not be content now, but I must go and leave the hs^py 
view I had of being a rich and thriving man in my new plantation, 
only to pur»ie a rash and immoderate dasire of rising faster than 
the nature of the thing admitted ; and thus I cast myself down 
again into the deepest gulf of human misery that ever man fell into, 
or perhaps could be consistent with life, and a state of health in the 
world. 

To come, then, by just degrees, to Ihe particulars of this part of 
my story : — ^You may suppose, that having now lived almost four 
years in the Brazils, and beginning to thrive and prosper very well 
appn my plantation, I had not only learned the language, but had 
contracted an acquaintance and friendship among my fellow-planters, 
as well as among the merchants of St. Salvador, which was our 
porti and that, in my discourses among them, I had frequently given 
them an accotmt of my two voyages to the coast of Guinea, the 
manner of trading with the Negroes tiiere, and how easy it was to 
purchase on the coast for trifles- — such as beads, toys, knives, scis- 
sors, hatchets, bits of glass, and the like«-not only gold dust, Guinea 
grains, elephants' teeth, &c., but Negroes, £oi the service of the Bra- 
zils, in great numbers. 

They listened always very attentively to my discourse* on those 
heads, but especiadly to that part which related to the buying Ne- 
groes ; which was a trade, at that time, not only not iir entered 
into, but, as fer. as it was, had been carried on by the assientos^ op 
permission of Ihe kings of Spain and Portugal, and engrossed from 
the public; so that few Negroes w«re bought, and those excessive* 
ly dear. 

It happened, being in compsmy with some merchants and planters 
of my acquaintMice, and talking of those things very earnestly, three 
of them came to me the next morning, and told me they had been 
musing very much upon what I had discoursed with- them of the last 
night, and they came to make a secret proposal to me : and, after 
enjoining me to secrecy, they told me that they had a mind to fit cut 
a ship to go to Guinea ; that they had all plantaiaons as well as I, 
and were straitened for nothing so much as servants ; that as it was 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



32 ADVENTUBES 07 

a trade that ooald not be earned on, becauae th^ eoald not pabUcIy 
sell the Negroes when they eame home, so they desired to make 
bat one vojrage, to bring the Negroes on shore privately, and divide 
them among their own plantations : and, in a word, the question was, 
whether I would go their sopercargo in the ship, to manage the 
trading part upon the coast of Guinea ; and they offered me that I 
sho«]dd have an equal share of the Negroes, without providing any 
part of the stock. 

This was a £ur proposal, it must be confessed, had it been made 
to any one that had not a settlement aod plantation of his own 
.to look aft^, which was in a &ir vfaiy of coming to be very con- 
siderable, and with a good stock upon it But for me, that was 
thus entered and edhtabliahed, and had nothing to do but go on 
as I had began, for three or four jrears more, aiid to have seat 
for ihe other hundred pounds from England ; and who, in ihsA 
time, and with that little addition, could scarce have ^dled of 
being worth three or four thoiasand pounds sterling, and that in- 
creasing too ; for me to think of such a voyage, was the most pre- 
posterous thing that ever man, in such circumstances, could be 
guilty of. 

But I, that was horn to be my own destrier, ceuld no more re- 
sist the offer, than I could restrain my first rankling designs, when 
my father's good counsd was lost upon me. In a woid» I told them 
I would go with att my heart, if they wouM imdertaiie to look after 
my plantati<m in my absence, and would dispose of it to suoh as I 
should direct, if I miscarried. This Ihey aU engaged to do, and 
entered into writings or covenants to do so^ and I made a formal 
will, disposing of my plemtation ^id efi^ts, in case of my death ; 
making the captam of the ship that had saved my li£e, as before, my 
imiversal heir; hiA obliging him to di^sose of my effisots as I had 
directed in my wil; one half of tl^ produce being to himself, and 
the o^r to be shi^^ed to England. In short, I took zH possible 
caution to preserve my effects, and to keep xep my plantation : had 
I used half as much |Hrudence to have looked into my own interest, 
and have made a judgment of what I ought to have done and not to 
have done, I had certainly never gone away from so prosperous an 
undertaking, leaving all ^e probable views of a thriving circum- 
stance, and gone a voyage to sea, s^tended" with all its common 
hazards, to say noHih^ of &e reasons I had to expect particular 
misfortunes to myself. 

But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates of my 
fancy, rather than my reason: and accordingly, the ship being 
fitted out, and the cargo furnished, and all things done as by 
agreement, by my partners in the voyage, I went oq board in an 



Digitized 



by Google 



EOBINSOIf CRUSOE* 33 

ct3 hour again, the first of September, 1659, being the same day 
eight years that I went from my parents at Hbll, in order to act the 
rebel to their authority, and the fool to my own interest. 

Our ship was about one hundred and twenty tons burden, car- 
ded six guns, and fourteen men, besides the master, his boy, and 
myself; we had on board no large cargo of goods except of such 
toys as were fit for our trade with the Negroes, such as beads, bits 
of glass, shells, and odd trifies, especially little looking-glasses, 
knives, scissors, hatdiets, and the l&e. 

The yery same day I went on board we set sail, standing away 
to to northward upon our own coast, with a design^ to staretch 
over for ihe African coast. When they came abou^ ten or twelvQ 
degrees of northern latitude, which, it seems, was the manner of 
iheir course in fliose days, we had very good weather, only ex- 
cessive hot aH the way upon our own coast, till we came to the 
height of cape St. Augustine ; from whence, keeping farther off 
at sea, we lost sight of land, and steered as if we were bound for 
the isle of Fernando de Noronha, holding our c6urse N. E. by N. 
and leaving those isles on the east. In this course we passed the 
line in about twelve days^ time, and were, by our last observation, 
in seven degrees twenty-two minutes northern latitude, when a 
violent tornado, or hurricane, todt us quite out of our knowledge : 
it began from the south-east, came about to the north-west, and 
dien settled in the north-east ; from whence it blew in such a ter- 
rible manner, ^at for twelve da3rs together we could do nothing 
but drive, and, scudding away before it, let it cflirry us whither 
ever fkte and the fury of the winds directed ; and, during these 
twelve days, I need not say that I expected every day to be 
swafiowed up; nor, indeed, did any in the ship expect to save 
their Hves. 

In Ms distress, we had, besides the terror of the storm, one of 
our men died of the calenture, and one man and a boy washed over- 
board. About the twdflh day, the weaftier abating a iittie, the mas- 
ter B^a^ an oibservatlon » well as he could, and found that he was 
in about eleven degrees north latitude, but that he was twenty- 
two degrees of longitude difference, west from cape St Augustine ; 
so fliat he fotmd he was got upon the coast of Guiana, or the 
noi^ part of Brazil, beyond the river Amazons, toward that of the 
river Oronoco, commonly citlled the Great Oliver; arid began to 
consult with me what course he should take, for the ship was 
leaky and very much disabled, and he was for going directly back 
to the coast of Brazil. 

I was positively against that; and looking over the charts of 
the sea-coast of America with him, we concluded there was no 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



34 ADVENTURE! 07 

inhabited country for \m to have recourse to, till we caae vnJ^kdik 
the circle of the Caribbee idands, and therefore reaolTed to stand 
away for Barbadoes ; which, by keeping off to aea, to avoid the in- 
draft of the bay or gulf of Mexico, we might easily perform, as we 
hoped, in about fifteen days' sail ; whereas we oould not possibly 
make our voyage to the coast of A&ica without some assistance, 
both to our ship and ourselves. 

With this design we changed our course, and steered away N. 
W. by W. in order to reach some of our English islands, where I 
hoped for relief: but our voyage was otherwise determined: for 
being in the latitude of twelve degrees eighteen minutes, a second 
storm came upon us, which carried us away with the same impetu- 
osity westward, and drove us so out of the very way of all human 
commerce, that had all our lives been saved, as to the s^ we were 
rather in danger of being devoured by savages than ever returning 
to our own country. 

In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard,. one of our 
men early in the morning, cried out, Land ! and we had no sooner 
run out of the cabin to look out, in hopes of seeing whereabouts 
in the world we were, but the ship struck upon a sand, and in a 
moment, her motion being so stepped, the sea broke over her in 
such a manner, that we expected we should all have poished 
immediately; and we were imioediately driven into our close 
quarters, to shelter us from the very foam and spray of &e 
sea. 

It is not easy for any one who has not been in the like condittoa, 
to describe or conceive the consternation of men in such circum- 
stances : we knew nothing where we were, or upon what land it 
was we were driven, whether an iriand or the main, wheth» in- 
habited or not inhabited ; and as the rage of the wind vi^as still 
great, though rather less than at first, we could not so much as 
hope to have the ship hold many minutes without breaking in 
pieces, uidess the wind, by a kind of miracle, should haamediat^y 
turn about. In a word, we sat looking upon one another, and 
expecting death every moment, and every man acting accordingly, 
as preparing for another world; for there was litde or nothing 
more for us to do in this : that which was our present comfort, 
and all the comfort we had, was, that, contrary to our expectation, 
the sh^) did not break yet, and that the master said the wind began 
to abate. 

Now, though we thought that the wind did a little abate, yet 
the ship having thus struck upon the sand, smd sticking too fast 
for us to expect her getting off, we were in a -dreadful condition 
indeed, and had nothing to do, but to think of saving our lives as 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 35 

wen as we could. We had a boat at our stem just before the 
storm, but she was first staved by dashing against the ship^s rud- 
der, and, in the next phice, she broke away, and either sunk, or 
was driven off to sea; so there was no hope from her: we had 
another boat on board, but how to get her off into the sea was a 
doubtfol thing; however, there was no room to debate, for we 
fancied the ship would break in pieces every minute, and somo 
told us she was actually broken already. 

In this distress, the mate of our vessel laid hold of die boat, and 
with the help of the rest of the men, they got her flung over the 
ship's side; and getting all into her, let her go, and committed 
ourselves, being eleven in number, to God's mercy, and the wild 
sea : for though the storm was abated considerably, yet the sea 
went dreadful high upon the shore, and might be well called den 
wiid zee, as the Butch call the sea in a storm. 

And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we all saw 
plainly, that the sea went so high that the boat could not live, 
and that we should be inevitably drowned. As to making sail, 
we had none ; nor, if we had, could we have done any thing with 
it ; so we worited at the oar towards the land, though with heavy 
hearts, like men going to execution ; for we all knew that when 
the boat came nearer to the shore, she^ would be' dashed in a thou- 
sand pieces by the breach of the sea. However, we committed 
our souls to God in the most earnest manner ; and the wind dri- 
ving us towards the shore, we hastened our destruction wi^ our 
own hands, pulling as well as we could towards land. 

WlMit the ^ore was — ^whether rock or sand, whether steep or 
shoal -^ we knew not; the only hope that could rationally give 
us the least shadow of expectation, was, if we might happen into 
some bay or gulf, or the mouth of some river, where by great 
chance we might have run our boat in, or got imder the lee of the 
land, and perhaps made smooth water. But tiiere was nothing 
of this appeared ; and as we made nearer and nearer the shore, 
the land looked more frightful than the sea. 

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league and a 
half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountainlike, came rolling 
astern of us, and plainly bade ua^expect the coup de grace. In a 
word, it took us with such a fury, that it overset ttie boat at once ; 
and separating us, as well from the boat as from one another, gave 
us not time hardly to say, *' O God !" for we were all swallowed 
up in a moment. 

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt, 
when I sunk into the water ; for though I swam very well, yet I 
«>ould not deliver myself from the waves so as to draw my breath, 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



36 ADVENTURE! OP 

till that wave faaying driven me, or rather carried me, a vast way 
on towards the shore, and having spent itself, went back, and 
left me upon the Und ahnost dry, but half dead with the water I 
took in. I had so much presence of mind, as well as breath left, 
that seeing myself nearer the main land than I expected, I got 
upon my feet, and endeavoured to make on towards the land as 
fast as I could, before another wave should return and take me 
up again; but I soon found it was impossible to avoid it; for I 
saw the sea come after me as high as a great hill, and as furious 
as an enemy which I had no means or strength to contend with : 
my business was to hold my breath, and raise myself upon the 
water, if I could ; and so, by swimming, to preserve my breathings 
and pilot myself towards the slu>re, if possible ; my greatest con- 
cern now being, that the wave, as it would carry me a great way 
towards the shore when it came on, might not carry me back 
again with it when it gave back towaids the sea. 

The wave that came xxgon me again buried me at once twenty 
or thirty feet deep in its own body ; and I could feel myself carried 
with a mighty force and swiftness towards the shore, a very 
great way; but I held my breath, and assisted myself to swim 
still forward with all my might. I was ready to biurst with hold- 
ing my breath, when, as I felt myself rising up, so, to my imme« 
diate n^kfy I found my head and hands shoot out above the sur- 
face of the vTater ; and thdt^h it was not two seconds pf time 
that X could keep myaeif so, yet it relieved me greatly, gave me 
breath and new courage. I wa^ covered again with water a 
good while, bol not so long but I held it out ; and finding the 
water had q>ent itself, and began to return, I struek forward 
against tite return of t^e waves, and felt ground again with my 
feet. I stood still a few moments, to recoyer breath, and till ih» 
water went fiom ma, and then tpok to my heels, and ran with 
what strength I had &rther towards the shore. But neither would 
this deliver me from the fury of the sea, which came pouring in 
after me again ; and twice more I was lifted up by the waves and 
carried forwards as before, ihe iriiore being very fia^. 

The last time of these two had well nigh been fatal to me ; fox 
the sea having hurried me along^ as before, landed me, or rather 
^dashed me, against a piece of a rock, and t^t with such force, 
that it left me senseless, and indeed heli^ss, as to my own deliv- 
erance ; for the blow taking my side and breast, beat the breathf 
as it were, quite out of my foody; ]^ had it returned again 
immediately, I must have been jangled in the water; but I 
recovered a little before the return of the waves, and seeing I 
^ould again be covered with the waiter, I resolved to hold fast 



Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 37 

bf a piece of the rock, and so to hold my breadi, if poesible, till the 
wave went back. Now as Uie wares were not so high as the first, 
being nearer land, I held ray hold till the wave abated, and l^ea 
fetched another mn, which tnrought me so near the ^lore, that the 
ne^ wave, though it went over me, yet did not so swallow me np as 
to carry me away ; and the next run I took, I got to the main land ; 
where, to my great comf(»:t, I clambered xsp the d^s of tiie shore, 
and sat me down npon ihe grass, free from danger, and ^ite oat of 
the reacfr of the water. 

I was now landed, and safe on shore ; and began to look np and 
thank God &at my life was saved, in a case wherein there were, 
some minntes before, scarce any ro<»n to hope. I believe it is im- 
possiUe to express, to the life, wha^ the ecslacies and trttQ^p(»rts of 
the sool are, idien it is so saT»l, as I may sagr, ont of the gr&ve : and 
I did ndt wonder now at the cmtom, viz. that when a malefiictor, 
who teis the halter aboat his i»ek, is tied np, and jost going to be 
tamed <^, and has a reprieve brodght to him ; I say, I do iH)t wonder 
that they bring a surgeon with it, to let hiih Mood tibat very moment 
they tell him of it, that the surprise may not drive the animal spirits 
from the heart, and overwhelm him. 

For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first 

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands, and my whole 
being, as I may say, wrapped up in the contemplation of my deliver- 
ance ; making a thousand gestures and motions, which I cannot de- 
scribe ; reflecting upon my comrades that were drowned, and that 
there should not be one soul saved but myself, for, as for them, I 
never saw them afterwards, or any sign of them, except three of the 
hats, one cap, and two shoes that were not fellows. 

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel — when the breach and froth 
of ihe sea being so big I could hardly see it, it lay so far o£f-— and 
considered, Lo^d ! how was it possible I could get on shore ? 

After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part of my con- 
dition, I began to look round me, to see what kind of a place I was 
in, and what was next to be done ; and I soon found my comforts 
abate, and that, in a word, I had a dreadful deliverance ; for I was 
wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor any thing either to eat or drink, 
to com&rt me ; neither did I see any prospect before me, but that 
of perishing with hunger, or being devoured by wild beasts : and 
that which was particularly afiiicting to me was, that I had no 
weapon, either to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, or 
to defend myself against any other creature that might desire to kill 
me for theirs. In a word, I had nothing about me but a knife, a 
tobacco-pipe, and a little tobacco in a box. This was all my pro- 

4 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



38 ROBINSON CRUiOB. 

▼iaioD ; and Uiis threw me into each terrible agonies of mind, that, 
hr a while, I ran about like a madman. Night coming upon me, I 
began, with a heavy heart, to consider what would be my lot if there 
were any ravenous beasts in that country, seeing at night they al- 
ways come abroad for their prey. 

All the remedy that offered to my thoughti, at that time, was, to 
get up into a thick hoak^ tree, like a fir, but thorny — which grew 
near me, and where I resolved to sit all night — and consider the next 
day what dealii I should die, for as yet I saw no prospect of life. I - 
walked about a furlong from the ^ore, to see if I could find any fresh 
water to drink, which I did, to ray great joy ; and having drank» and 
put a little tobacco into my mouth to prevent hunger, I went to the 
tree, and getting up into it, endeavoured to place myself so, as that 
if I should &11 asleep, I mi^t not fiUl ; and having cut me a ^k^ 
stick, like a truncheon, for my defence, I took up my lodging ; and 
having been excessively fetigued, I fell fest asleep, and slept as com- 
fortably as, I believe, few could have done in my condition ; and 
found myself the most refreshed with it that I think I over was oa 
such an occasion. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION V. 

BOBINSON riNDS HUtSBLF IN ▲ DE80LA.TK ISLAND — PROCURES ▲ STOCK 
OF ARTICLES FROM THE WRECK — CONSTRUCTS HIS HABITATION. 

Whiit I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and the storm 
abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as before ; but that 
wtich surprised me most was, liiat the ship was lifted off in the 
night from the sand where she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and 
was driven up almost as far as the rock which I at first mentioned, 
where I had been so bruised by the wave dashing me against it. 
This being within about a mile from the shore where I was, and 
the ship seeming to stand upright still, I wished myself on 
board, that at least I might save some necessary things for my 
use. 

When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I looked 
about me again, and the first thing I found was the boat ; which 
lay, as the wind and the sea had tossed her up, upon the land, 
about two miles on my rig^t hand. I walked as far as I could upon 
the shore to have got to her ; but found a neck, or inlet, of water, 
between me and the boat, which was about half a mile broad ; 
so I came back for the present, being more intent upon getting 
at the ship, where I hoped to find something for my present sub- 
sistence. 

A little afler noon, I found the sea very calm, and the tide 
ebbed so far out, that I could come within a quarter of a mile of 
the ship : and here I found a fresh renewing of my grief; for I 
saw evidently, that if we had kept on board, we had been all safe ; 
that is to say, we had all got safe on shore, and I had not been so 
miserable as to be left entirely destitute of all comfort and 
company, as I now was. This forced tears from my eyes 
again ; bat as thc^re was little relief in that, T resolved, if possible, 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



40 ADTENTXJRfiS 07 

to get to the skip ; so I pulled off my clothes, for the weather was 
hot to extremi^, and took tke water : but when I came to the 
ship, my difficulty was still greater to know how to get on board ; 
for as she lay aground, and high out of the water^ there was 
nothing within my reach to lay hokl of. I swam rouad her twice, 
and the second time I spied a small piece «f a tope, which I 
wondered I did not see at first, hang down by the feiechains so 
low, as that with great difficulty, I got lu^d of it, and by the help 
of that rope got into the forecasde of the ship. Here I found that 
the ship was bulged, and had a great deal of water ia her hold ; 
but that she lay so on the side of a bank of hxtd sand, or rather 
earth, that her stem lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head 
low, almost to the water. By this means all her quarter was free, 
and all that was in that part was dry; for you may be sure my 
first work was to search and to see what was 8p<Mled and what 
was free ; and, first, I found that all the ship's provisions were 
dry and untouched by ^tte water; and, being very wdl dii^pesed 
to eat, I went ii^ the bread-room, and filled my pockets with 
yscuit, uii eat it as I went about oUi^er things, for I had no ttsM to 
lose. I abo found some rum in. the great cabin, of which I t»€k . 
a ktf ge dram, and which I had indeed need enough of^ to q^it me 
for what was before me. Now I wanted nothing but a bosit, to fur- 
nish myself wkh many things which I foresaw would be very neces- 
sary tome. 

It was in vam to pit still and wish foi: what was not to bo iiad, 
and this extremity roused my ap^lics^on: we had severd spare 
yuds, and two or three large spare af wood, and a spare topmast 
or two in the ship; I resolved to fadl to work with these, uid 
flung as many overboard as I couid manage for their weight, tying 
every one with it rope, that they might not drive away. Whea ^kis 
was done, I went down the ship's side, and pulling them to me, 
I tied four of them &8t together at hoUn ends, as wcH as I could, 
in the f<Min of a rait, and laying two or ^iree short {»eces of ^ank 
upon th^n, erossways, I tmeA I cocdd walk tipoa it v^ well, but 
that it was not able to bear any great weight, the pieces being too 
li^t : so I went to wmrk, and with the cajrpenter's saw I cot a spafe 
topmast into three lengths, and added ihem to my raA, with a great 
deal of labour and pains. But the hope of funikhing myself wkh 
necessaries, encouraged me to go beyond what I i^oidd have been 
able to have done upon anothear ocoasicm. 

My rait was now strong enough to bear any reasonable weight. 
My next care was what to load it with, and how to pareserve what 
I laid upon it from ^e surf of the sea ; but I was not long con- 
sidering this. I first laid all the planks or boards upon it that I 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBIN0OK CRU«Ofi. 41 

coold get, and havi&g considered woU what I most wanted, I got 
three of the seamen^s ehests, which I had broken open and 
emptied, and loweied them down upon my raf%; ihew I filled 
with proyiMons^ riz. bread,, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces 
of dried goat's flesh, ^whioh we lived much npon^) and a little 
remainder of Stiropean com, which had been laid bf for some 
fowls wych we had thought to sea with ns, but the Ibwis were 
kSled. There had been soate barley and wheat together, but, to 
my great disappmntment, I £rand afterwards ^lat the rats had 
eaten or spoiled it sdl.. As for liquors, I foond several cases of 
^^ottles belonging ta om: skipper, in which were some cordial 
vFatere; and, in all, abont &ve or »x gallons of rack. These I 
stowed by tiiemselves, ^i8 being no need to pot them into the 
chests, nor any toom for them. While I was doi^g this, I found 
i&e tkle began to flow, though very cahn ; and I had the morti- 
fication to see my e^t, shirt, and waisteMUv which I had left on 
c^re, upon ^ sand, swim away; as for my breeches, which 
were only tioen, and open^kneed, I swam <m bosurd in them, and 
my stocldngs. Hcrwerer, this put me upon rummaging for clothes, 
of which I found enO^h, but took no more than J wanted for 
present use, for I had oi^r tilings which my eye was more upon ; 
$», first, tools to w<»k with 4m diore : and it was a^r l<mg search- 
ing that I found the cai]^ent<3r's ehei^ which was indeed a very use- 
fol prize to me, and much more rahiable than a ridp-lading of gold 
wocdd have been at that time. I get it down to my raft, even whole 
^ it was, without losing time to look isto it, for I knew in general 
what it coi^aitted. 

My next care was for some ammimition and arms. There were 
two very good fowling-pieces in tiie great cabin, a«d two pistols ; 
these I secured first, wi^ some powder-homs,. and a small bag of 
shot, and two <dd rusty swoxds. I knew there were three barrels 
of powder m tiie ship, bnt knew not where the gunner had stowed 
them ; -but with much search I found them, two of them dry and 
good, the third had taken water. These two I got to my raf);, 
wilii ihe arms. And now I thought myself pretty well freighted, 
and begfaa to think how I shoiidd get to shore witii tiiem, having 
neither sail, o»r, n<Nr rodder; ^asd the least capful] of wind would 
have ovei^set all my navigation. 

I had three encouragements : 1st, A smooth, calm sea : 2dly, 
The tide rising, and setting in to the shore: 3dly, What little 
wind there was, blew me towards the land. And thus, haying 
found two or three broken oars belonging to the boat, and besides 
the tools which were in the chest, I found two saws, an axe, and a 
hammer ; and with tlus cargo I pat to sea. For a mile» (a therea^ 

4* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



43 ADVENTURSi OF 

bouts, mj raft went veiy well, only that I found k drire a litde dtsr 
tant from the place where I had landed before ; by which I per- 
ceired that there was some indraft of the water, and consequently I 
hoped to find some creek or riv^ there, which I might make use of 
as a port to get to land with my cargo. 

As I imagined, so it was : there appeared before me a little 
opening of the land, and I found a strong current of the tide set 
into it ; so I guided my raft, as well as I could, to get into the 
middle of the stream. But here I had like to have suffered a 
second shipwreck, which, if I had, I think rerily would have 
broken my heart ; for knowing nothing of the coae^ my raft ran 
aground at one end of it upon a shoal, and not being aground at 
the otiier end, it wanted but a little that all my 4;argo had slipped 
off towards that end that was afloat, and so iiallen into the water. 
I did my utmost, by setting my back against the chests, to kec^ 
them in their places, but could not thrust off the raft with all my 
strength ; neither durst I stir from the posture X was in, but hold- 
ing up the chests witli all my might, I stood in that manner neau: 
half an hour, in which time ^e rising of the water brought me a 
little m(M:e upon a level ; and a little after, the water still rising, my 
raft floated again, and I thrust her off with the oar I had into the 
channel, and ^n driving up hi^fflr, I at length found myself 
in the moirth of a little river, with land on both s^d^s, and a 
strong current or tide running up. I looked on both sides for 
a proper place to get to shore^ for I was not willing to be driven 
too high up the river; hoping in time to see some ship at sea, 
and therefore resolved to place myself as near the coast as I 
could. 

At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the creek, 
to which, with great pain and difficulty, I guided my raft, and at 
last got so near, as that reaching ground with my oar, I could 
thrust her directly in ; but here I had like to have dipped all my 
cargo into the sea again ; for that shore lying pretty steep, that is 
to say, sloping, there was no place to land, but /where one end of 
my float, if it ran on shore, would lie so high, and the other sink 
lower, as before, that it would endanger my cargo again. All 
that I could do, was to wait till the tide was at the highest, keep: 
ing the raft with my oar like an anchor, to hold the side of it fast 
to the shore, near a flat piece of ground, which! expected the 
water would flow over; and so it did. As soon as I found water 
enough, for my raft drew about a foot of water, I thrust her upon 
that flat piece of ground, and there fastened or moored her, by 
sticking my two broken oars into the ground, one on one side, 
Dear one end, and one on the other side, near the other end : and 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 43 

thus I lay till 1^ water ebbed away, and lefl my ra^ and all my 
cargo safe on shore. 

My next work wa? to view &e country, and seek a proper place 
for my habitation, and where to stow my goods, to secure them 
from whatever might happen. Where I was, I yet knew not; 
whether on tiie continent, or on an island ; whether inhabited, or not 
inhabited ; whether in danger of wild beasts, or not. There was 
a lull, not above a mile from me, which rose up v^ry steep and 
high, and whi^h seemed to overtop some other hills, which lay as 
in a ridge from it, northward. I took out one of the fowling- 
pieces, and one of the pistols, and a horn of powder ; and thus 
armed, I travelled for discovery up to the top of that hill ; where, 
after I had, with great laboar and difficulty, got up to the top, I 
saw my fate, to my great affliction, viz. that I was in an island, 
environed every way with the sea, no land to be seen, except 
some rocks, which lay a great way off, and two small islands, less 
tham this, which lay about three leagues to the west. 

I found also that the islsmd I was in was barren, and, as I saw 
good reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wild beasts, of 
whom, however, I saw none ; yet I saw abundance of fowls, but 
knew not their kinds; neither, when I killed them, could I tell 
what was fit for food, and what not. At my coming back, I shot 
at a great bird, which I saw sitting upon a tree, on the side of a 
great wood. I believe it was the first gun that had been fired 
there since the ereatiod of the world ; I had no sooner fired, but 
from all parts of the^wood there arose an innumerable number of 
fowls, of many sorts, making a confused screaming, and crying, 
every one according to his usual note ; but not one of them of any 
kind that I knew. As for the creature I killed, I took it to be a 
kind of a hawk, its colour oxid beak resembling it, but it had no 
talons or claws more than common. Its fiesh was carrion, and 
fit for nothing. 

Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft, and fell 
to work to bring my cargo on ^ore, which took me up the rest^of 
that day : what to do with myself at night I knew not, nor indeed 
where to rest: for I was afraid to lie down on the ground, not 
knowing but some wild beast might devour me; though, as I 
afterwards found, there was reaBy no need for those fears. How- 
ever, as well as I could, I bamcadoed myself round with the 
chests and boards thi^t I had brought on shore, and made a kind 
of a hut for that night's lodging. As for foodj I yet saw not which 
way to supply myself, except that I had seen two or three crea- 
tures, like hares, run out of the wood where I shot the fowl. 

I now began to consider that I might yet get a great many 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



44 ADVENTtJIifift OF 

things out of tho ship, which woald be useful to me, and partico^ 
larly B6tae of the rigging and saila, and such other things as might 
come to land; and I resolred to make another Toyage on board 
the vessel, if possible. And as I knew that the first storm that 
blew must necessarily break her all in pieces, I resolved to set all 
other things apart, till I got every thing out of the ship that I could 
get. Tlien I called a council, that is to say, in my thoughts, 
whether I should take back the raft; but this appeared im- 
practicable; BO I resolved to go as befcwe, when the tide v^as 
down ; and I did so, only that I stripped before I went fkom my 
hut; having nothing On but a checkered cdiirt, a pair of linen 
drawers, and a pair of pumps on my feet. 

I got on board Uie ship aa before, and prepared a second raft ; 
uid having had experience of the first, I neither made this so un^ 
wieldy, nor loaded it so hard, but yet I broi^ht away several 
things very useful to me : as, first, in the carpenter's stores, I 
found two or three bags of i^ails and spikes, a great screw-jack, s 
dozen or two of hatchets ; and, above all, that most useful thing 
called a grindstone. All these I seeured together, widi seteral 
things belonging to the gunner; particularly, two or tiiree iron 
crows, and two barrels of musket bullets, seven mui^^ts, and 
another fowling-piece, widi some small quantity of powder mere ; 
a large bag full of small shot, and a great roll of sheet lead ; but this 
last was so heavy, I codd not hoist it up to get it over the i^iip's 
side. Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes that I 
could find, and a spare fore»teps£ul, a hammock, and some bed- 
ding; and with this I loaded my second raft, and brought ihBm 
all safe on shore, to my very great comfort 

I was under some appr^ensions lest, during my absence from 
the land, my provisions might be devoured on shore : but when I 
came back, I found no sign of any visiter ; only there sat a 
creature like a wild cat upon one of Hie chests, which, when I 
came towards it, ran away a little distance, and then stood still. 
She sat very composed and unconcerned, and looked fiill in my 
fiice, as if ^e had a mind to be acquainted with me. I presented 
my gun to her, but, as she did ttot understand it, she was per- 
lectiy unconcerned at it^ nor did elie offer to stir away; upon 
which I tossed her a bit of biscuit, though, by the way, I was not 
very free of it, for my store was not great; however, I spared 
her a bit, I say, cuad she went to it, smelled of it, «id ate it, and 
looked (as pleased) for more ; but I thanked her, and could spare 
no more ; so she marched off. 

Having got my second "fcargo on shore — ^though I was faki to 
open the banrete of powder^ and bring them by pare^, for they 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBIKBON CAV0OE. 45 

were too heavy, hemg large easks-^I went to wc^k to make me a 
little tent, with the sail, and some poles, which I eat for that purpose ; 
and into this tent I brooght erery thing that I knew woold spoil 
either with rain or mm ; and I pUed all the empty chests and casks 
up in a circle roimd the tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt 
ei^ier from man or beast. 

When I had done tiiis, I hlooked np the door of the tent with some 
boards within, and an empty chest set up on end without : and i^ead- 
uig one <^ ^e1)ed8 upon the grocmd, laying my two {nstois just at 
my head, and my gon at length by me, I went to bed for the first 
time, and slept very qoietly all night, for I was very weary and 
heavy ; for the night befinre I had slept little, and had laboured very 
hard aQ ikiy, as weU to fetch aH those tianga from the ship, as to 
get them on shore. 

I had the biggest maga^ie of aU kinds now that ever was kid up, 
I believe, fbr one man : but I was not satisfied stiQ ^ for while the 
^p sat upright in that posture, I ^m^^ I ought to get every thing 
out of her that I could : so every day, at low water, I wmA on board, 
and b9ou§^ away something or o^ier : but particularly, the third 
time I went, I brought away as much of the rigging as I could, as 
also aU the small ropes and rope-twine I could get, with a" piece o( 
epaare canvass, which was to meod the sails upon occasion, and the 
barrel of wet gunpowder. In a wwd, I brought away all the sails 
first and last ; only that I was fain to cut them in pieces, and bring 
as much at a time as I could ; for they were no more useful to be 
sails, but as mere canvass only. 

But that which comforted me st^ mc^re was, tfai^ last ef all, afler 
I had made five or six such voyages as these, and thoi^ht I had 
ficrthing more to expect from the ship tlutt was worth my meddling 
with ; I say, afier all :this, I found a great hogshead of bread, and 
three large runlets oiivsxt or spirits, and a box of sugar, and a barrel 
of fine fioor ; this was surprising to me, beoauae I had given over 
expecting any more provisions, exc^ wbaJt was iqf>oiled by the water. 
I soon emptied the hogshead of that bread, and wrapped it n^, pared 
by parcel, in pieces m the sails, which I cut out ; and, in a w(Mcd, I 
got sdl this safe on shore also. 

The next day I made anoAer voyage, and now having plundered 
the ship ef what was portaMe and fit to hand out, I began with the 
cables, and outtmg the great caUe into pieces, such as I conld move, 
I got two cables and a hawaer on dim, with all the iron work I 
could get ; and having cut down the spritsail-yard, and the mizen- 
yard, and every thing I could, to make a large rafl, I loaded it with 
all those heavy goods ; and came away : but my good ludk began 
now to lecrre me ; for this raft was so unwieldy, and so overladen. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



46 ADVENTURES OF 

that aAer I wbs entered the little cove, where I had landed the 
rest of my goods, not being able to guide it so handily as I did the 
other, it overset, and threw me and all my cargo into the water ; 
as for myself, it was no great harm, for I was neur the shore ; 
but as to my cargo, it was a great part of it lost, especially the 
iron, which I expected would have been of great use to me : how- 
ever, when the tide was out, I got most of the pieces of cable ashore, 
and some of the iron, though with infinite labour ; for I wa3 £un to 
dip for it into Ute water, a work which jEatigued me very much. 
At^r this I went every day on board, and brought away what I 
^ould get. 

I had been now thirteen days ashore, and had been eleven 
times on board the ^p; in wbioh time I had brought away all 
that one pair of hands could well be supposed ci^;»able to bring ; 
though I believe verily, had the cafan weather held, I should 
have brought away the whole ship, piece by piece ; but, prepar- 
ing, the twdfth time, to go on board, I found Uie wind began to 
rise; however, at low water, I went on board; and though I 
thought I had rummaged the cabin so effectually, as that nothing 
could be found, yet I discovered a locker with drawers in it, in 
one of which I found two or three raaors, and one pair. of large 
scissors, with some tea or a dozen of good knives imd forks ; in 
another I found about thirty-six pounds value in money, some 
European coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gold, and 
some silver. 

I smiled to myself at the sight of tiiis money : O drug ! I exclaim- 
ed, what art thou good for? Thou art not worth to me, no, not the 
taking off the groimd ; one of Hiose knives is worth all this heap: 
I have no manner of use for thee ; e^en remain where ^ou art, and 
go to the bottom, as a creature whose life is not worth saving. 
However, upon second thoughts, I took it away ; and wrapping all 
this in a piece of canvass, I began to tiiink of making ano^r rail ; 
but while I was preparing this, I found the sky overcast, and the 
wind began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it Uew a fresh gale 
from the shore. It presently occurred to me, that it was in vain to 
pretend to make a raft with the wind off shore ; and that it was my 
business to be gone before the tide of flood began, or otherwise I 
might not be able to reach the shore at all. Accordingly, I let tiiy- 
self down into the water, and swam across the channel which lay 
between the ship and the sands, and even that with difficulty enough, 
partly with ihe wei^t of the things I had about me, and partly the 
roughness of the water ; for the wind rose very hastily, and before 
it was quite high water it Uew a storm. 

But I was go^ home to my little tent, wh^re I lay, with all my 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 47 

wealtii about me very secure. It blew very hard all that night, 
and in the momhig', when I locdced out, behold, no more ship 
was to %e seen! I was a little surprised, but recovered myself 
with this satis^tory reflection,, viz. that I had lost no time, nor 
abated no diligence, to get every thing out of her that could be 
use^ to me, and that, mdeed, there was little left in her that I 
was able to Imng away^ if I had had more time. 

I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of any thing 
out of her, except what might drive on shore, from her wreck ; as, 
indeed, divers pieces of her afterwards did ; but those ^iiigs were 
of small use to me. 

My thoughts were now -wdioUy employed about securing myself 
sgainst either savages, if any should appear, or wild beasts, if any 
were in the iaiand ; and I had many thoughts of the method how 
to do tills, and what kind of dweiling to make, whether I should 
make me a cave in tiie earth, or a tent upon tiie earth : and, in 
short, I resolved upon botii ; the manner and description of which, 
it may not be improper to give sn account of. 

I soon found tibe place I was in was not for my settlement, 
particularly because it was upon a low, moorish ground, near the 
soa, and X believed it wav^d not be wholesome ; and more particu- 
larly because there was no fresh water n^ir it : so I resolved to 
Ssid a more healthy and more convenient spot of ground. 

I consulted several things in my situation, which I found would 
he proper for me : first, air and fresh water, I just now mention- 
ed : secondly, shelter from the heat of the sun : thirdly, security 
from ravenous creatures, whether men or beasts : fourthly, a view 
to the sea, that if God sent any ship in sight, I might not lose any 
advantage for my deliverance, of which I was not willing to ban- 
ish all my expectation yet 

In search for a place proper for this, I found a little plain on 
the side of a rising hill, whose front towards this little plain was 
steep as a house side, so that nothing could come down upon me 
from the top. On the side of this rock there was a hollow place, 
worn a little way in, like tiie entrance or door of a cave ; but 
l&ere was not really any cave, or way into the rock, at all. 

On Hie flat of the green, just before this hollow place, I resolved 
to pitch my tent. This plain was not above a hundred yards broad, 
and about twice as long, and lay like a green before my door ; 
and, at the end of it, descended irregularly every way down into 
the low ground by the seaside. It was on the N. N. W. side of 
the hill ; so that it was sheltered from the heat every day, till it 
came to a W. and by S. sun, or thereabouts, which, in those coun- 
tries, is near the setting. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



48 ROBINSON CRUfOl. 

Before I set op my tent, I drew a htli^-etrole before tbe h(^ky«r- 
pUce, ^pHiioh took ia about ten yards in its semi-diaiaeter fiom 
the rock, and tweaty yards in its 4yaaAeter, from its begkuung and 
ending. 

In this kalf-<nrele I pitched two rows of strong sCakos, ^iriag 
them into the ground till they stood Tory fam hke piles, the big- 
gest end being out of the ground i^out 6if9 foot and a half, and 
sharpened on the top. The two rows did not stand aboTo six 
inches from one another. 

Then I todc the pieces ef cable which I c«t in the ship, and 
laid them in rows one upon another, within the eirde, between 
these two rows of stakes, up to ^ top, tracing ether stakes in 
the mside, leaning against ^eni, about two ftei and a hatf high, 
like a spur to a post; and this fence was so stnMig, that neither 
man nor beast eouM get into it or orer it This cost we a great 
deal ci time and labonr, especially to cut Ihe i^es in the woods, 
bring them to the place, and drive tiiem into ^e earth. 

The entrance into this place I made to be not by a doer, but 
by a i^ort ladder to go over the top ; which ladder, when I was in,I 
liifted oTcr after me ; and so I was completely fenced in and fortified, 
as I thought, from all ^e world, and conseqnentiy slept secure in 
the night, which otherwise I could not have done ; thou^, as ft ap- 
peared afterwards, there was no need of aH this caution against 
the enemies that I iqppr^ended danger from. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION VI. 

OAIIBlfia ALL HI8 RICHES, PROVISIONS, ETC. INTO HIS HABIT ATIOK. — DfiEAKI- 
NESS OF SOLITUDE. — CONSOLATORY REFLECTIONS. 

Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite lahour, I carried all my 
riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores, of which you 
have the account above ; and I made a large tent, which, to pre- 
serve me from the rains, that in one part of the year are very vio- 
lent there, I made double, viz. one smaller tent within, and one 
larger tent above it, and covered the uppermost with a large tar- 
paulin, which I had saved among the saiU. 

And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which I had brought 
on shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed»a very good one, and 
belonged to the mate of the ship. 

Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and every thing that 
would spoil by the wet ; and having thus enclosed all my goods, I 
made up the entrance, which till now I had left open, and so passed 
and repassed, as I said, by a short ladder. 

When I had done this, I began to work my way into the rock} 
and bringing all the earth and stones that I dug down out through 
my tent, I laid them up within my fence in the nature of a terrace, 
80 that it raised the ground within about a foot and a half; 
and thus I made me a cave, just behind my tent, which served ma 
like a cellar to my house. It cost me much labour and many days, 
before all these things were brought to perfection ; and therefore 
I must go back to some other things which took up some of my 
thoughts. At the same time it happened, after I had laid uiy 

5 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



50 ^M/LifTtrmES of 

echeme for the setiing up my tent, and making the cave, that a 
tftorm of ram falling from a thick, dark cloud, a sudden flash ok 
lightning happened, and after that, a groat clap of thunder, as is 
naturally the effect of it. I wv» not so much surprised with the 
lightning, a« I was with a thought, which darted into my mind as 
swift as the lightmng itself: O my powder! My very heart sunk 
within me when I thought, that at one blast, all my powdei:^ight 
be destroyed ; on which, not ray defence only, but the providing 
me food, as. I thought, entirely depended. I was nothing near so 
anxious about my own danger, though, had the powder took fire, 
I had never kno^vn \^ho had hurt me. 

Such impression did this make upon me, that after the storm 
was over, I laid aside all my works, my building and fortifying, 
and applied myself to make, bags and boxes, to separate the pow- 
der, and to keep it a little and a little in a parcel, in hope that 
whatever might come, it might not aU take fire at once ; and to 
keep it so apart, that it should not be possible to make one part 
fire another. I finished this work in about a fortnight ; and I think 
my powder, which in all was about two hundred and forty pounds 
weight, was divided in not less than a hundred parcels. As to the 
barrel that had been wet, I did not apprehend any danger from 
that; so I placed it in my new cave, which, in my fancy, I called 
my kitchen, and the rest I hid up and down in holes among the 
rocks, so that no wet might come to it, marking very carefully 
where I laid it. 

In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out at least 
once every day with my^ gun, as well to divert myself, as to see 
if I could kill any thing fit for food ; and, as near as I could, to 
acquaint myself with what the island produced. The first time I 
went out, I presently dbcovered that there were goats upon the 
island, which was a great satisfaction to me ; but then it was at- 
tended with this misfortune to me, viz. that they were so shy, so 
subtle, and so swift of foot, that it was the most difficult thing in 
the world to come at them ; but I was not discouraged at this. 
. not doubting but I might now and then shoot one, as it soon hap- 
pened; for after I had found their haunts a little, I laid wait in this 
manner for them : I observed, if they saw me in the valleys, though 
they were upon the rocks, they would run away as in a terrible 
fright ; but if they were feeding in the valleys, and I was upon the 
rocks, they took no notice of me ; from whence I concluded, that 
by the position of their optics, their sight was so directed down- 
wards, that they did not readily see objects that were above them ; 
liO, afterwards, I took thb method — T always climbed the rocks fii st. 
to get above them, and then had frequently a fair mark. The first 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINtOlf CKtrSOE. 51 

shot I made among these creatures, I killed a she-goat, which had 
a little kid by her, which she gare suck to, which grieved me 
heartily ; but when the old one fell, the kid stood stock still by her, 
tiU I came and took her up ; and not only so, but when I carried 
the old one with me, upon my shoulders, the kid followed me 
quite to my enclosure ; upon which, I laid down the dam, and 
took the kid in my arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes to 
have bred it up tame ; but it wouH not eat ; so I was forced to kill 
it, and eat it myself. These two supplied me with flesh a great 
while, for I ate sparingly, and preserved my provisions (my bread 
especially) as much as possibly I could. 

Having now fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely necessary 
to provide a place to make a fire in, and fuel to bum ; and what 
I did for that, as also how I enlarged my cave, and what conve- 
niences I made, I shall giv6 a full account of it in its proper place : 
but I must first give some little account of myself, and of my 
dioughts about living, which, it may well be supposed, were not 
^ few. 

I had a dismal prospect of my condition ; for as I was not cast 
away upon liiat island without being driven, as is said, by a violent 
storm quite out of the course of oUr intended voyage, and a great 
way, viz. some hundreds of leagues* oUt of the ordinary course of 
die trade of mankind^ I had great reason to consider it as a deter- 
mination of Heaven, that in this desolate place, and in this desolate 
manner, I should end my Rfo. The tears would run plentifully 
down my feco when I made these reflections ; and sometimes I 
wot^d expostulate with myself why Providence should thus com- 
pletely ruin its creatures, and render them so absolutely misera- 
ble; so abandoned without help, so entirely depressed, that it 
could hardly be rational to be thankful for such a life. 

But something always returned swift upon me to check these 
thoughts, and to reprove me : and particularly, one day, walking 
with my gun in my hand, by the seaside, I was very pensive upon 
the subject of my present condition, when reason, as it were, ex- 
postulated with me the other way, thus : Well, you are in a 
desolate condition, it is true ; but, pray remember, where are the 
rest of you ? Did not you come eleven of you into the boat ? 
Where are the ten ? Why were not they saved, and you lost ? 
Why were you singled out ? Is it better to be here .or there ? 
And then I pointed to the sea. All evils are to be considered 
with the good that is in them, and with what worse attends them. 

Then it occurred to me again, how well I was furnished for my 
subsistence, and what would have been my case if it had not hap* 
pened (which was a hundred thousand to one) that the ship float- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



38 ROBIirSON C&U80X« 

ed from the place where the first strvck, mod was driren to near 
to the shore, that I had time to get all these thmgs out of her : 
what would have been my case, if I had been to have lived in the 
condition in which I at first came on shore, without necessaries of 
life, or necessaries to supply and procure them? Particularly, 
said I aloud (though to myself), what should I have done without 
a gun, without ammunition, without any tools to make any thing, 
or to work with, without clothes, bedding, a tent, or any manner 
of covering? and that now I had all these to a sufficient quantity, 
and was in a fair way to provide myself in such a manner as to 
live without my gun, when my ammunition was spent: so that I 
Lad a tolerable view of subsisting, without any want, as long as I 
lived ; for I considered, from die beginning, how I would provide 
for the accidents that might happen, and for the time that was to 
come, not only after my ammunition should be spent, but even 
after my healUi or strength should decay. 

I confess, I had not entertained any notion of my ammunition 
being destroyed at one blast, I mean my powder being blown up 
by lightning; and this made the thoughts of it so surprising to me, 
when it lightened and thundered, as I observed just now. 

And now being to enter into a melancholy relation of a scene of 
silent life, such, perhaps, as was never heard of in the world be* 
fore, I shall take it from its beginning, ^d continue it in its order. 
It was, by my account, the 20th of September, when, in the 
manner as above said, I first set foot upon this horrid isl^d ; 
when the sun being to us in its autumnal equinox, was almost 
just over my head : for I reckoned myself, by observp^on, to be in 
the latitude of nine degrees twenty-two minutes north o^ the line 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION VIL 

■obihson's mode of reckoning tihe.^difficulties abisinq fbom wamt 

OF TOOLS.— HE ARBANGES HIS HAfilTATION. , 

After I iiad been there about ten ar twelve days, it came into 
my thoughts that I should lose my reckoning of time for want ol 
books, and pen and ink, and should even forget the sabbathdays 
fropa the working days: but, to prevent this, I cut it withtr^y 
knife upon a large post, in capital letters; and making it,infCK^a 
great cross, I set it up on the shore where I first landed, viz. ^^ I 
came on shore here on the 30th of September, 1650.'* Upon the 
sides of this square post I cut every day a notch with my knife, and 
every seventh notch was as long again as the rest, and every first 
day of the month as long again as that long one : and thus I kept 
my calendar, or weekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning of time. 

But it happened, that among the many things which I brought 
out of the ship, in the several voyages which, as above mentioned, 
I made to it, I got several things of less value, but not at all less 
useful to me, w^hich I found, some time after, in rummaging the 
chests ; as, in particular, pens, ink, and paper ; several parcels in 
the captain*s, mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping ; three 
or four compasses, some mathematical instruments, dials, per- 
spectives, charts, and books of navigation; all which I hud- 
dled together, whether I might want them or no : also I found 
three very good Bibles, which came to me in my cargo from 
England, and which I had packed up among my things , some 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



04 ADYSirTUlLBS OF 

Portuguese books also, and, among them, two or three popish 
prayer books, and seyeral other books, all which I carefully 
secured. And I must not forget, that we had in the ship a dog, 
and two cats, of whose eminent history I may have occasion to 
say something, in its place : for I carried both the eats with me; 
and as for the dog, he jumped out of the ship himself, and swam 
on shore to me the day after I went on shore with my first cargo, 
and was a trusty servant to me for many years : I wanted nothing 
that he could fetch me, nor ai - • j^ make 

up to me, I only wanted to hav< it would 

not do. As I observed before, I per, and 

I husbanded them to the utmo at while 

my ink lasted, I kept things ver^ as gone, 

I could not ; for I could not mal dls that I 

could devise. 

And this put me in mind that I wanted many things, notwith- 
standing all that I had amassed together ; and of these, thb of 
ink was one ; as also a spade, pickaxe, and shovel, to dig or 
remove the earth ; needles, pins, and thread ; as for linen, I soon 
learned to want that without much difficulty. 

This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily ; and 
it was^ear a whole year before I had entirely finished my little 
pale, or surrounded my habitation. The piles or stakes, which 
were as heavy as I could well lift, were a long time in cutting and 
preparing in the woods, and more, by far, in bringing home ; so 
that I spent sometimes two days in cutting and bringing home 
one of those posts, and a third day in driving it into the ground ; 
for which purpose, I got a heavy piece of wood at first, but at last 
bethought myself of one of the iron crows ; "i^hich, however, 
though I found it answer, made driving these posts or piles very 
laborious and tedious work. But what need I have been con- 
cerned at the tediousness of any thing I had to do, seeing I had 
time enough to do it in ? nor had I any odier employment, if that 
had been over, at least that I could foresee, except the ran^ng the 
island to seek for food ; which I did, more or less, every day. 

I now began to consider Tseriously my condition, and the cir- 
cumstance I was reduced to ; and I drew up the state of my 
affairs in writing, not so much to leave them to any that were to 
come after me, (fori was like to have but few heirs,) as to deliver 
ray thoughts from daily poring upon them, and afflicting tny 
mind ; and as my reason began now to master my despondency, 
I began to comfort myself as well as I could, and to set the good 
against the evil, that I might have something to distinguish nay 
case from worse * and I stated very impartially, like debtor and 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOK. 55 

creditor, the comforts I enjoyed against the miseiies I suffered* 
thus: 



I am cast upon a horrible, desolate But I am alive ; and not drowned, 
island, void ot all hope of recovery. as all my ship's company were. 

I am singled out and separated, as But I am singled out too from all 
It were, from all the world, to be the ship's crew, to be spared from 
miserable. death ; and he that miraculously saved 

me from death, can deliver me from 

this condition. 

I am divided from mankind, a soli- . But I am not starved, and perisli- 

taire; one banished from human so- ing in a barren place, affordmg nc 

ciety. sustenance. 

I have no clothes to cover me. But I am in a hot chmate, where, il 

I had clothes, I could hardly wear 
them. 
I am without any defence, or means But I am cast on an island where 
to resist any violence of man or beast. I see no wild beast to hurt me, as I 

saw on the coast of Africa ;^nd what 
if I bad been shipwrecked ^tnere 1 
^ I have no soul to speak to, or re- But God wonderfully sent the ship 
Iieve me. in near enough to the shore, that I 

have got out so many necessary 
things as will either supplydiy wants, 
or enable me to supply jnyseH', even 
as long as I live. 

Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony, thjt there 
was scarce any condition in the world so miserable, bu^ there 
was something negative, or something positive, to be thankful 
for in it : and let this stand as a direction, from the experience of 
the most miserable of all conditions in this world, that we may 
always find in it something to comfort ourselves from, and to set, 
in the description of good and evil, on the credit side of the 
account. 

Having now brought my mind a little to relish my condition, 
and given over looking out to sea, to see if I could spy a ship ; 1 
say, giving over these things, I began to apply myself to accommo- 
date my way of living, and to make things as easy to me as I could. 

I have already described my habitation, which was a tent un- 
der the side of a rock, surrounded with a strong pale of posts and 
cables ; but I might now rather call it a wall, for I raised a kind of 
wall against it of turfs, about two feet thick on the outside : and after 
some time (I think it was a year and a half) I raised rafters from 
it, leaning to the rock, and thatched or covered it with boughs of 
trees, and such things as I coul4 get to keep oit tho rain ; which 
I found, at some times of the year, very violent. 

I have already observed how I brought all my goods into this 
pale, and into the cave which I had made behind me. But I 
must ohserve, too. that at first this was a confused heap of goods. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



56 ADVE1VTUEE8 OF 

which, as they lay in no order, bo they took up all my place , 1 
had no room to turn myself: so I set myself to enlarge my caye, 
and work farther into the earth ; for it was a loose, sandy rock, 
which yielded easily to the lahour I bestowed on it : and when I 
found I was pretty safe as to the beasts of prey, I worked side* 
ways, to the right hand, into the rock, and then turning to the 
right again, worked quite out, and made me a door to come out in 
the outside of my pale or fortification. 

This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were, a back 
way to my tent and to my storehouse, but gave me room to stow 
my goods. 

And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary things 
as I found I most wanted, particularly a chair and a table ; for 
without these I was not able to enjoy the few comforts I had in the 
world ; I could not write, or eat, or do several things with so 
much pleasure, without a table : so I went to work. And here 
I must needs observe, that as reason b the substance and original 
of the mathematics, so by stating and squaring every thing by 
reason, and by making the most rational judgment of things, ever^ 
man nrtty be, in time, master •of every mechanic art. I had never 
handled a tool in my life ; and yet, in time, by labour, appli* 
cation* and contrivance, I found, at last, that I wanted nothing 
but I <ftuld have made, especially if I had had tools. However, I 
mad^ abundance of things, even without tools ; and some with no 
more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which perhaps were 
never made that way before, and that with infinite labour. For 
example, if I wanted a board, I had no other way but to cut 
down a tree, set it on an edge before me, and hew it flat on either 
side with my axe, till I had brought it to be as thin as a plank, 
and then dub it smooth with my adze. It is true, by this method 
I could make but one board of a whole tree; but this I had no 
remedy for but patience, any more than I had for a prodigious 
deal of time and labour which it took me up to make a plank or 
board : but my time or labour was little worth, and so it was as 
well employed one way as another. 

However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed above, 
in the first place ; and this I did out of the short pieces of boards 
that I brought on my raft from the ship. But when I wrought 
out some boards, as above, I made large shelves of the breadth of 
a foot and a half, one over another, all along one side of ray cave, 
to lay all my tools, nails, and iron work on : and, in a word, to 
separate every thing at large in their places, that I might easily 
come at them. I knocked pieces into the wall of the rock, to 
hang my guns, and all things that would hang up ; so that ha f 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBIlfSON CRUSOE. 57 

my cave been seeii, it looked like a general magazine of all 
necessary things ; and I had every thing so ready at my hand, 
that it was a great pleasure to me to see all my goods in such 
order, and especially to find my stock of all necessaries so great. 

And now it was that I began to keep a journal of every day*s 
employment; for, indeed, at first, I was in too much hurry, and 
not only as to labour, but in much discomposure of mind ; and 
my journal would, too, have been fuU of many dull things ; for 
example, I must have said thus— '< Sejft. 30th. After I had got 
to shore, and had escaped drowning, instead of being thankful to 
God for my deliverance, having first vomited with the great 
quantity of salt water which waB gotten into my stomach, and 
recovering myself a little, I ran about the shore, wringing my 
hands, and beating my head and face, exclaiming at my misery, 
and crying out, I was undone, undone! till, tired and faint, I 
was forced to lie down on the ground to repose ; but durst not 
sleep, for fear of being devoured." 

Some days after this, and after I had been on board the ship 
and got an that I could out of her, I could not forbear getting up 
to the top of a little mountain, and looking out to sea, in hopes 
of seeing a ship : then fsmcy that, at a vast distance, I spied a 
sail, please myself with the hopes of it, and, after looking a^adily, 
dll I was almost blind, lose it quite« and sit down and weep like a 
child, and thus increase my misefy by my folly. 

But, having gotten over these things tn some measure, and 
havmg settled my household stuff and habitation, made me a 
table and a chair, and all as handsome about me as I could, I 
began to keep my journal : of which I shall here givo you the 
copy (though in it will be told all these particulars over again) as 
long as it lasted; ibr, having no more ink, I was forced to 
leave it off. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION vm. . 

<0BIN80n'8 journal.— details or HIS DOMESTIC ECONOMY AND CONTIIVANCBflL 
BHOCK or AS EASTtmUAKK. 

THE JOURNAL. 

September 30tii, 1659. I, poor muorable Robinson Cnisoo, 
being shipwrecked, daring a dreadful storm, in the offing, «ame 
on shore on this dismal nnfortnnate island, which I called the 
Island of Despair; all the rest df the ship's company being 
drowned, and myself almost dead. 

All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting myself at the dwh 
mal circumstances I was brought to, viz. 1 had neither food, 
house, clothes, weapon, nor place to fly to ; and, in despair of 
any relief, saw nothing but death before me ; that I should either be 
devoured by wild beasts, murdered by savages, or starved to 
death for want of food. At the approach of night I slept in a 
tree, for fear of wild creatures ; but slept soundly, though it rained 
all night. 

October 1. In the morning I saw, to my great surprise, the 
ship had floated with the high tide, and was driven on shore again 
much nearer the island ; which, as it was some comfort on one 
hand (for seeing her sit upright, and not broken in pieces, I 
hoped, if the wind abated, I might get on board, and get some 
food and necessaries out of her for my relief), so, on the other 
hand, it renewed my grfef at the loss of my comrades, who, I 
imagined, if we had all staid on board, might have saved the 
ship, or, at least, that they would not have been all drowned, 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOK. 59 

they were ; and that had the men heen saved, we might perhaps 
have built us a boat, out of the ruins of the ship, to have carried 
as to some other part of the world. I spent great part of chis 
day in perplexing myself on these things ; but, at length, seeing 
the ship sdmost dry, I went upon the sand as near as I conld, and 
then swam on board. This day also it continued raining, though 
with no wind at all. 

From the 1st of October to the 24th. All these days entirely 
spent in many several voyages to get all I could out of the ship ; 
which I brought on shore, every tide of flood, upon rafts. Much 
rain also in these days, though with some intervals of fair weather: 
but, it seems, this was the rainy season. • 

Oct.* 20. I overset my raft, and all the goods 1 had got upon 
it ; but being in shoal water, and the things being chiefly heavy, I 
recovered many of them when the tide was out. 

Oct. 25. It rained all night and all day, with some gusts oi 
wind ; during which time the ship broke in pieces (the wind blow- 
ing a little harder than before) and was no mere to be seen, except 
the wreck of her, and that only at low water. I spent this day 
In covering and securing the goods which I' had saved, that the 
rain might not spoil them. 

Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost all day, to find out 
ti place to fix my habitation ; greatly concerned to secure myself 
from any attack in the night, either from wild beasts or men. 
Towards night I fixed upon a proper place, under a rock, and marked 
out a semicircle for my encampment; which I resolved to strength- 
en with a work, wall, or fortification, made of double piles, lined 
within with cables, and without with turf. 

From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in carrying all 
my goods to my new habitation, though some part of the time it 
rained exceedingly hard. 

The 31st, in the morning, I went out into the island with my gun, 
to seek for some food, and discover the country ; when I killed a 
she-goat, and her kid followed me home, which I aftertvards killed 
also, because it would not feed. 

November 1. I setup my tent under a rock, and lay there for 
the first night ; making it as large as I could, with stakes driven in 
to swing my hammock upon. 

Nov. 2. I set up all my chests and boards, and the pieces of timber 
which made my rafts ; and with them formed a fence round me, a 
little within the place I had marked out for my fortification. 

Nov. 3. I went out with my gun, and killed two fowls like 
ducks, which were very good food. In the afternoon I went to 
work to make me a table. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



60 ADVEffTUEES OF 

Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my tunes of work, of 
going out with my gun, time of sleep, and time of diversion ; viz. 
every morning I viralked out with my gun for two or three hours, 
if it did not rain; then employed myself to work till about eleven 
o'clock ; then ate what I bad to live on ; and from twelve to two 
I lay down to sleep, the weatBer being excessive hot ; and then, 
in the evening, to work again. The working part of this day and 
the next was wholly employed in making my table, for I was yet 
but a very sorry workman : though time and necessity made me 
a complete natural mechanic soon after, as 1 believe they would 
any one else. 

Nov. 5. This dtyr, went abroad with my gun and dog, and killed 
a wild cat ; her skin pretty soft, but her flesh good for nothing : of 
every creature that I killed I took off the skins, and preserved 
them. Coming back by the seashore, I saw many sorts of sea* 
fowl which I did not understand : but was surprised, and almost 
frightened, with two or three seals ; which, while I was gazing at 
them (not well knowing what they were), got into the sea, and 
escaped me for that time. 

Nov. 6. After my morning walk, I went to work with my 
table again, and finished it, though not to my likhig : nor was k 
long before I learned to mend it. 

Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled fair weather. The 7th, 8tb, 
9th, 10th, and part of the 12th (for the 11th was Sunday, according 
to my reckoning), I took wholly up to make me a chair, and with 
much ado brought it to a tolerable shape, but never to please me; 
and, even in the making, I pulled it in pieces several times. 

Note. I soon neglected my keeping Sundays ; for, omitting 
my mark for them on my post, I forgot which was which. 

Nov. 13. This day it rained ; which refreshed me exceedingly, 
and cooled die earth : but it was accompanied with terrible thun- 
der and lightning, which frightened me dreadfully, for fear of my 
powder. As soon as it was over, I resolved to separate my stock ot 
powder into as many little parcels as possible, that it might not 
be in danger. 

Nov. 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent in making little 
square chests or bodies, which might hold about a pound, or two 
pounds at most, of powder : and so, putting the powder in, 1 
stowed it in places as secure and as remote from one another as 
possible. On one of these three days I killed a large bird iha' 
was good to eat; but I knew not what to call it. 

Nov. 1 7. This day 1 began to dig behind my tent, into the rock 
to make room for my farther convenience. 

Note. Three things I wanted exceedingly for this work, viz 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



J 



ROBIHSOll CRUSOE. 



fP 



a pickaxe, a shovel, and a wheelbarrow, or basket; so 1 desisted 
from my work, and began to consider how to supply these wants, 
and make me some tools. As for a. pickaxe, I made use of the 
iron crows, which were proper enough, though heavy ; but the 
next thing was a shovel or spade ; this was so absolutely necessary, 
that, indeed, I could do nodfing efiectually without it ; but what 
kind of one to make I knew not. 

Nov. 18. The next day, in searching the woods, I found a tree 
of that wood, or like it, which, in the Brazils, they call the iron 
tree, from its exceeding hardness : ef this, with great labour, and 
almost spoiling my axe, I cut a piece ; and brought it home, too, 
with difficulty enough, for it was exceeding heavy. The excessive 
hardness of the wood, and my having no other way, made me a 
long while upon this machine : for I worked it effisctually, by little 
and little, into the form of a shovel or spade ; the handle exactly 
shaped like ours in England, only that the broad part having no 
iron shod upon it at the bottom, it would not last me so long * 
however, it served well enough for the uses which I had occasion 
to put it to ; but never was a shovel, I believe, made after that 
fashion, or so long a making. 

I was still deficient : for I wanted a basket, or a wheiBlbarrow. 
A. basket I could not make by any means, having no such things 
as twigs that would bend to make wicker ware ; at least, none yet 
found out : and as to the wheelbarrow, I fancied I could make all 
but the wheel, but that I had no notion of; 'neither did I know 
how to go about it : besides, I had no possible way to make iron 
gudgeons for the spindle or axis of the wheel to run in ; so I gave 
it over : and, for carrying away the earth which J dug out of the 
cave, I made me a thing like a hod, which the labourers carry 
mortar in for the bricklayers. This was not so difficult to me as 
the making the shovel : and yet tins and the shovel, and the at- 
tempt which I made in vain to make a wheelbarrow, took me up 
no less than four days ; I mean, always excepting my morning 
walk with my gun, which I seldom omitted, and very seldom failed 
also bringing home something fit to eat. 

Nov. 23. My other work having now stood still, because ot 
my makiug these tdols, when they were finbhed I went on ; and 
working every day, as my strength and time allowed, I spent 
eighteen days entirely in widening and deepening my cave,- that 
It might hold my goods commodiously. 

Note. During all this time, I worked to make this room or cave, 
spacious enough to accommodate me as a warehouse or magazine, 
a kitchen, a dinmg-room. Mid a cellar. As for a lodging, I kep 
to the tent ; except that sometimes, in the wet season of the yeai 

6 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



03 Ai>yBNTU&xt or 

it raided su hard that I could not keep myeetf dry ; whicfa caused 
me afterwards te corer all my place within my pale with long poles, 
and in the form of rafters, leaning against the rock, and load them 
with flags and large leaves of trees, like a thatch. 

December 10. I began now to think my cave or vault finished ; 
when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too large) a grea*^ 
quantity of earth fell do^vn from the top and one side : so much 
that, in short, it frightened me, and not without reason too : for if 
I had been under it, I should never have wanted a grave-digger. 
Upon* this disaster, I had a great deal of work to do over again, 
for I had the loose earth to carry out ; and, which was of more 
importance, I had the ceiling to prop up, so that I might be sure 
no more would come down. 

Dec. 11. This day I went to work with it accordingly ; and 
got two shears or posts pitched upright to the top, with two pieces 
of board across over each post : this I finished the next day ; and 
setting more posts up with boacrds, in about a week more I had 
the roof secured ; and the posts, standing in rows, served me for 
partitions to part off my house. 

Dec. 17. From this day to the SOth, I placed shelves, and 
knocked up nails on the posts, to hang every thing up that could 
be hung up : and now I began to be in some order within doors. 

Dec. 20. I earned every thing into the cave, and began to 
furnish my house, and set up some pieces of boards, like a dresser, 
to order my victuals upon ; but boards began to be very scarce with 
me : also I made me another table. 

Dec 24. Much rain all night and all day : no stirring out. 

Dec. 25. Rain all day. 

Dec 26. No rain ; and the earth much cooler than before, and 
pleasanter. 

Dec. 27. Killed a young goat ; and lamed another, so that I 
catched it, and led it home in a string : when I had it home, I 
bound and splintered up its leg, which was broke. 

N. B. I took such care of it that it lived ; and the leg grew 
well, and as strong as ever : but, by nursing it so long, it grew 
tame, and fed upon the little green at my door, and would not go 
away. This was the first time that I entertained a thought of 
breeding up some tame creatures, that I might have food when 
my powder and shot was all spent. 

Dec 28, 29, 30, 31. Great heats, and no breeze ; so that there 
uras no stirring abroad, except in the evening, for food : this time 
I spent in putting all my things in order within doors. 

Januart 1. Very hot still ; but I went abroad early and late 
with my gun, and lay still ill the middle of the day. This evening. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBIirsefr GBU9QE. 63 

going farther into the yalleys whidi lay towards die centre of the 
island, I found there was plenty of goats, thoagh exceeding shy, 
and hard to come at ; however, I resolved to try if I could not 
bring my dog to hnnt them down. Accordingly, the next day, I 
went out with my dog, and set him upon the goats : but I was 
mistaken, for they all faced about upon the dog : and he knew his 
danger too well, for he would not come near them. 

Jan. 3. i began my fence or wall ; which, being still jealous of 
my being attacked by somebody, J resolved to make very thick 
and strong. 

N. B. This wall being described before, I purposely emit what 
was said in the journal : it is sufficient to observe, that I was no 
less time than from the 3d of January to the 14th of April, work- 
ing, finishing, wkI perfecting this wall ; though it was no more 
than about twenty-five yards in len^h, being a half circle, from 
, one place in the rock to another place, about twelve yards from 
it, die door of the cave being in the centre, behind it. 

All tMs time I worked very hard ; the rains hindering me many 
days, nay, sometimes weeks together: but i thought I should 
never be perfectly secure till this wall was finished ; and it is 
scarce credible what inexpressible labour every thing was done 
with, especially the bringing piles out of the woods, and driving 
them into the groimd ; for I made them much bigger than I needed 
to have done. 

When this wall was finished, and the outside double fenced, 
with a turf wail raised up close to it, I persuaded myself that if 
any people were to come on shore diere they would not perceive 
any thing like a habitation : and it was very well^I did so, as may 
be observed hereafter, upon a very remarkable occasion. 

During this- time, I made my rounds in the woods for game 
every day, when the rain permitted me, and made frequent dis- 
eoveries, in these walks, of iometiiing or other to ray advantage ; 
particularly» I found a kind of wild pigeons, who build, not as 
wood-pigeons, in a tree, but rather as house-pigeons, in tiie holes 
of the rocks : aikl, taking some young ones, I endeavoured to 
breed them up tame, and did so ; but when they grew older, they 
flew all away ; which, perhaps, was at first for want of feeding them, 
for I had nothing to give them r however, I frequently found their 
nests, ami got their young ones, which were very good meat. 
And now, in the managing my household affairs, I found* myself 
wanting in many things, which i thought at first it was impossible 
for me to make ; as indeed, as to some of ^em, it was ; for in 
stance, I could never make a cask to be hooped. I had a smal 
•unlet, or two as I observed before; but I could never arrive U 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



64 ADYBBTUEES 07 

the capacity of making one by them, though I spetit many weeki 
aboat it : I could neither put in the heads, nor join the Btaves so 
true to one another as to make them hold water ; so I gave that 
also over. In the next place, I was at a great loss for candies ; so 
that as soon as it was dark, which was generally by seren o'clock, 
I was obliged to go to bed. I remember the lump of bees-wax 
with which I made candles in my African adventure^ but I had 
none of that now : the only remedy I had was, that when I had 
killed a goat, I saved the tallow ; wid with a little dish made of 
clay, which I baked in the sun, to which I added a wick of scmie 
oakum, I made me a lamp ; and this gate me light, though not a 
clear steady light liko ft candle. In the middle of all my labours 
it happened, that in mmmi^ng my things, I found a little bag ' 
which, as I hinted before, had been filled with com, for the feeding 
of poultry ; not for this voyage, but before, as I suppose, when 
the ship came from Lisbon. What little remainder of com had 
been in the bag was sdl devoured with the rats, and I saw nothing 
in the bag but husks and dust ; and being willing to have the bag 
for some other use (I think, it was to put powder in, when I di- 
vided it for fear of the lightning, or some such use), I shook the 
husks of corn out of it, on one side of my fortification, under the 
rock. 

It was a little before the great rain just now mentioned, that I 
threw this stufi* away ; taking no notice of any thing, and not so 
much as remembering that I had thrown any thing there : when 
about a month after, I saw some few stalks of something green, 
shooting out of the ground, which I fancied might he some plant 
I had not seen ; but I was surprised, and perfectly astonished, when, 
after a little longer time, I saw about tenor twelve ears come oat, 
which were perfect green barley of the same kind as our £un^;>ean, 
nay, as our English barley. 

It is impossible to express the astonishment and oonfoston of 
my thoughts on this occasion: I had hitherto acted upon no re- 
ligious foundfl^n at all ; indeed, I had very few notions of re- 
ligion in my head, nor had entertained any sense of any thing that 
had befallen me, otherwbe than as chance, or, as we lightty say, 
what pleases God 'r without so much as inquiring into die ^id of 
Frovidmice in ^ese things, or his order in governing events in 
the world. But after I saw bariey grow there, in a climate which 
I knew was not prc^r for com, and especially as I knew not how 
it came there, it startled me strangely ; and I began to suggest, 
that God had miractdously caused this grain to grow without any 
help of seed sown, and that it was so directed purely for my s«s« 
tenance. on that wild miserable place. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



&OBINSON C&U80E. 66 

This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out of my 
eyes ; an^ I began to bless myself that such a prodigy of natme 
should happen upon my account : and this was the more strange 
to me, because I saw near it still, all along by the side of the rock, 
some other straggling stalks, which proved to be stalks of rice, and 
which I knew, because I had seen it grow in Africa, when I was 
ashore there. 

I not only thought these the pure productions of Proyidence for 
my support, but, not doubting that there was more in the place, 
I went over all that part of the island where I had been before, 
searching in every comer, and under every rock, for more of it ; 
but I could not find any. At last it occurred to my thoughts, that 
I had shook out a bag of chicken's meat in that place, and then 
'the wonder began to cease : and I must confess, my religious 
thankfulness to God's providence began to abate too, upon the 
disco verii^ that all this was nothing but what was common; 
though I ought to have been as thankful for so strange and un- 
foreseen a providence, as if it h^ been miraculous : for it was 
really the work of Providence, as to me, that should order or ap- 
point that ten or twelve grains of com should remain unspoiled, 
when the rats had destroyed all the rest, as if it had been dropped 
from heaven ; as also, that I should throw it out in that particular 
place, where, it being in the shade of a high rock, it sprang up 
immediately ; whereas, if I had thrown it any where else, at that 
time, it would have been burned up and destroyed. 

I carefully saved the ears of this com, you may be sure, in 
their season, which was about the end of June ; and, laying up 
every com, I resolved to sow them all again ; hoping, in time, 
to have some quantity sufficient to supply me with bread. But 
it was not till the fourth year that I could allow myself the least 
grain of this com to eat, and even then but sparingly, as I shall 
show afterwards, in its order ; for I lost all that I sowed the first 
season, by not observing the proper time ; as I sowed just before 
the dry season, so that it never came up at all, at least not as it 
would have done; of which in its place. 

Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or thirty 
stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same care ; and whose 
Hse was of the same kind, or to the same purpose, viz. to make me 
bread, or rather food ; for I found ways to cook it up without 
baking, though I did that also after some time.-^But to return to 
my Joumal. 

I worked excessively hard these three or four months, to 
get my wall done ; and the 14th of April I closed it up ; con- 
triving to get into it^ not by a door, but over the wall bi 

6* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



d6 ADYBNTtmEt or 

a ladder, tbat tiiere might be no sign en the outside of ray 
habitation. 

April 16. I finished the ladder ; no I went np with the ladder 
to the top, and then polled it up after rae, and let it down in the 
inside : this was a complete enclosure to me ; for within I had room 
enough, and nothing could come at me from without, imless it 
^ould first mount my wall. 

The very next day after this wall was finished, I had almost 
all my labour overthrown at once, and myself killed ; the case 
was thus :— As I was busy in the inside of it, behind my tent, just 
at the entrance into my cave, I was terr3>ly frightened n^th a 
most dreadful surprising thing indeed ; for, all on a sudden, I 
found the earth come crumbling down from the roof of my cave, 
and from the edge of the hill over my head, and two of the posts 
I had set up in the cave cracked in a frightful manner. I was 
heartily scared ; but thought nothing of what really was the cause, 
only thinking that the top of my cave was falling in, as some of 
it had done before : and for fear I should be buried in it, I ran 
forward to my ladder, and not thinking myself safe there neither, 
I got over my wall fer fear of the pieces of the hill which I ex- 
pected might roll down upon me. I had no sooner stepped down 
upon the firm ground, than 1 plainly saw it was a terrible earth- 
quake: for the ground I stood on shook three times at about 
eight minutes distance, with three such shocks as would have 
overturned the strongest building that could be supposed to have 
stood on the earth ; and a great piece of the top of a rock, which 
stood about half a mile from me, next the sea, fell down, with 
such a terrible noise as I never heard in all my life. I perceived 
also that the very sea was put into a violent motion by it ; and I 
believe the shocks were stronger under the water than on the 
island. 

I was so much amazed with the thing itself (having never felt 
the like, nor discoursed with any one that had) that I was like one 
dead or stupified ; and the motion of the earth made my stomach 
sick, like one that was tossed at sea : but the noise of the falling 
of the rock awaked me, as it were ; and rousing me from the 
stupified condition I was in, filled me with horror, and I thought 
of nothing but the hill falling upon my tent and my household 
goods, and burying all at once ; tiiis sunk my very soul within me 
a second time. 

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some 
lime, I began to take courage ; yet I had not heart enough to go 
over my wall again, for fear of being buried alive, but sat still 
upon the ground greatly cast down, and disconsolate, not knowing 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



K0BIN80H C&1780E. 67 

wbat to do. All tins wUle, I had not tbe least serious religious 
' tboQ^t; nothing but the common Lord^ have mercy upon me! 
and when it was oyer, that went away too. 

While I sat thus, I found the air overcast^ and grow cloudy 
as if it would rain ; and soon after the wind rose by little and little, 
so that in toss than half an hour it blew a most dreadful hurricane : 
the sea was, all on a sudden, coyered with fbam and froth ; the 
shore wa» cohered with a breach of the water ; the trees were torn 
up by tiie roots ; and a terrible storm it was. This held about 
three h<mrs, and then began to abate ; and in two hours more it 
was quke calm, and began to rain very hard. All this while I 
sat upon the ground, very much terrified and dejected ; when, on 
a sudden, it came into my thoughts, that these winds and rain 
being the Gonse«[u»nce of the earthquake, the earthquake itself 
was «peat and over, and I might venture into my cave again. 
With this thought my spirits began to revive ; and the rain also 
helping to persuade me, I went in, and sat down in my tent ; but 
the nun was so violent, that my tent was ready to be beaten down 
with it; and I was forced to get into my cave, though very much 
afraid and imeasy, for fear it should fall on my head. This violent 
rain fenced me to a new work, viz, to cut a hole through my new 
fortificatien, like a sink, to let the water go out, which would else 
have drowned my cave. After I had been in my cave for some 
time, and found no more shocks of the earthquake follow, I began 
to be more ccmiposed. And now to support my spirits, which 
Bideed wwsted it very much, I went to my little store, and took a 
small sup of mm ; wiiich, however, I did then, and always, very 
sparingly, knowing I could have no more when that was gone. 
It continued raining all that night, and great part of the next day, 
so that I could not stir abroad : but my mind being more com- 
posed, I began to tiiink of what I had best do ; concluding, that 
if the island was subj^t to these earthquakes, there would be no 
living for me in a cave, but I must consider of building me some 
little hut in an open place, which 1 might surround with a wall, 
as I had done here, and so make myself secure from wild beasts 
or men : for if I staid where I was, I should certainly, one time 
oi other, be buried alive. 

With these thoughts, I resolved to remove my tent from the 
place where it now stood, being just under the hanging precipice 
of the hill, and which, if it should be shaken again, would cer- 
tainly fall upon my tent. I spent the two next days, being the 
19th and 20th of April, in contriving where and how to remove 
my habitation. The fear of being swallowed alive affected me 
so, that I never slept in quiet; and yet the apprehension of lying 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



i8 aOBIIfSO!! CEC80B* 

abroad, without any fence, wu almost equal to it: but •dll, 
when I looked about, and saw how every thing was put in order^ 
how pleasantly I was concealed, and how safe from danger, it 
made me very loath to remore. In the mean time, it occurred to 
me that it would require a vast deal of time for me to do this; 
and that I must be contented to run the risk where I was, till 1 
had formed a convenient camp, and secured it so as to remove to 
it. With this conclusion I composed myself for a time ; and re- 
solved that I would go to work with all speed to build me a wall with 
piles and cables, &c., in a circle as before, and set up my tent in 
it when it was finished ; but that I would venture to stay where I 
was till it was ready, and fit to remove to. This was the 21st. 

April 22. The next morning I began to consider of means to 
put this measure into execution ; but I was at a great loss about 
the tools. I had three large axes, and abundance of hatchets (for 
we carried the hatchets for traffic with the Negroes) ; but with 
much chopping and cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full of 
notches, and dull : and though I had a grindstone, I could not 
turn it and grind my tools too. This caused me as much thought 
as a statesman would have bestowed upon a grand point of poli- 
tics, or a judge upon the life and death of a man. At length I 
contrived a wheel with a string, to turn it with my foot, that I 
might have both my hands at liberty. 

Note. I had never seen any such thing in England, or at least 
not to take notice how it was done, though since I have observed 
it is very common there : besides that, my grindstone was very 
large and heavy. This machine cost me a full week's work to 
bring it to perfection. 

April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up in grinding my 
toob, my machine for turning my grindstone performing very well. 

April 30. Having perceived that my bread had been low a 
great while, I now took a survey of it, and reduced myself to ont 
biscuit-cake a day, which made my heart very heavy. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION IX. 

BOBINSON OBTAmS MOBE ARTICLES FBOM THE WBEOK. — ^HIB ILLNE88 AMD 
AFPUCTION. 

Mat 1. In the morning, looking toward the seaside, the tide 
neing low, I saw something lie on the shore bigger than ordinary, 
and it looked like a cask ; when I came to it, I found a small 
barrel, and two or three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which 
were driyen on shore by the late hurricane ; and looking towards 
the wreck itself, I thought it seemed to lie higher out of the water 
tiian it used to do. I examined the barrel that was driven on , 
shore, and soon found it was a barrel of gunpowder ; but it had 
taken water, and the powder was caked as hard as a stone : 
however, I rolled it farther on the shore for the present, and went 
on upon the sands, as near as I could to the wreck of the ship, to 
look for more. 

When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely removed. 
The forecastle^ which lay before buried in the sand, was heaved 
up at least six feet : and the stern (which was broke to pieces, 
and parted fVora the rest, by the force of the sea, soon after I had 
left rummaging of her) was tossed, as it were, up, and cast on 
one side : and the sand was thrown so high on that side next her 
stern, that I could now walk quite up to her when the tide was 
out ; whereas there was a great piece of water before, so that I 
could not come within a quarter of a mile of the wreck without 
0wimming I was surprised with this at first, but soon concluded 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



70 ABYKlfTURKS 01* 

it must be done by the earthquake ; and a« by thb yiolence the 
«hip was more broke open than formerly, so many things came 
daily on shore, which the sea had loosened, and which the winds 
and water rolled by degrees to the land. 

This wholly diverted my thoughts from die desi|^ of removing 
my habitation ; and I busied myself mightily, that day especially, 
in searching whether I could make any way into the ship : but I 
found nothing was to be expected of that kind, for all the inside 
of the ship was choked up with sand. However, as I had learned 
not to despair of any thing, I resolved to pull everything to pieces 
that I could of the ship, concluding that every thing I could get 
from her would be of some use or other to me. • 

Mat 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a beam 
through, which I thought held some of the upper part or quarter- 
deck together ; and when I had cut it through, I cleared away 
the sand as well as I could from the side which lay highest ; but 
the tide coming in, I was obliged to give over for that time. 

Mat 4. I went a fishing, but caught not one fish that I durst 
eat of, till I was weary of my sport ; when, just going to leave 
off, I caught a young dolphin. I had made me a long line of 
some rope-yam, but I had no hooks ^ yet I frequently caught fish 
enough, as much as I cared to eat ; all which I dried in the sun, 
and ate them dry. 

Mat 5. Worked on the wreck : cut another beam asunder, 
and brought three great fir plank» o^ from the decks; which I 
tied together, and made swim on shore when the tide of fiood 
came on. 

Mat 6. Worked on the wreck; got several iron bolts out of 
her, and other pieces of iron work ; worked very hard, and can^ 
home very much tired, and had thoughts of giving it over. 

Mat 7. Went to the wreck again, but not with an intent l^ 
work ; but found the weight of the wreck had broke itself down, 
the beams being cut; that several pieces of the ship seemed to Ue 
loose ; and the inside of the hold lay so open that I could see into 
it ; but almost full of water and sand. 

Mat @. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow to wrench 
up the deck, which lay now quite clear of the water and sand. I 
wrenched up two planks, and brought them on shore also witit 
the tide* I left the iron crow in the wreck for the next day. 

Mat 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow made way into 
the body of the wreck, and felt several casks, and loosened them 
with the crow, but could not break them up. I felt also a roll of 
English lead, and could stir it ; bat it was too heavy to remove. 

Mat 10 to 14. Went every day to the wreck ; and got a great 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



EOBINSOIV CRU80X. 71 

many pieces of timber, and boanls, or plank, and two or three 
hundred weight of iron. 

Mat 15. I carried two hatchets, to try if I could not cut a 
piece off the roll of lead, by placing the edge of one hatchet, and 
driving it with the other ; but as it lay about a foot and a half in 
the water, I could not make any blow to drive the hatchet. 

May 16. It had blown hard in the night, and the wreck ap^ 
peared more broken by the force of the water ; but I stayed so 
long in the woods, to get pigeons for food, that the tide prevented 
my going to the v ock that day. 

May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore, at a 
great distance, two miles off me, but resolved to see what they 
were, and found it was a piece of the head, but too heavy for me 
to bring away. 

May 24. Every day, to this day, I worked on the wreck ; and 
with hard labour I loosened some things so much with the crow, 
tnat the first blowing tide several casks floated out, and two of 
the seamen's chests : but the wind blowing from the shore, nothing 
came to land that day but pieces of timber, and a hogshead, 
which had some Brazil pork in it ; but die salt water and the sand 
had spoiled it* I continued this work every day to the 15th of 
Jime, except the time necessary to get food; which I always 
appointed, during this part of my employment, to be when the 
tide was up, that I might be ready when it was ebbed out : and 
oy this time I had gotten timber, and plank, and iron work, enough 
CO have built a good boat, if I had known how : and I also got, at 
several times, and in several pieces, near one hundred weight of 
the sheet-lead. 

Junk 16, Going down to the seaside* I found a large tortoise, 
or turtle. This was the first I had seen ; which, it seems, was 
only my misfortune, not any defect of the place, or scarcity ; for 
had I happened to be on the other side of the island, I might 
have had hundreds of them every day, as I found afterwards ; but 
perhaps had paid dear enough for them. 

June 17, I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in her three- 
score eggs: and her flesh was to me, at that time, the most 
savoury and pleasant that I ever tasted in my life ; having had no 
flesh, but of goats and fowls, since I landed in this horrid place. 

June J.8» Rained all that day, and I stayed within. I thought, 
at this time, the rain felt cold, and I was somewhat chilly ; which 
I knew was not usual in that latitude. 

June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather had been cold 

June 20. No rest all night ; violent pains in my head, and 
feverish. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



72 ADVENTURES OF 

June 21. Very ill ; frightened almost to death with the appre- 
hensions of my sad condition, to be sick, and no help : prayed to 
God, for the first time since the storm off Hull; but scarce knew 
what I said, or why, my thoughts being all confused. 

June 22. A little better ; but under dreadful apprehensions of 
sickness. 

June 23. Very bad again; cold and shivering, and then a vio- 
lent headache. 

June 24. Much better. 

June 25. An ague very violent : the fit held me seven hours ; 
cold fit, and hot, with faint sweats after it. 

June 26. Better ; and having no victuals to eat, took my gun, 
but found myself very weak : however, I killed a she-goat, and 
with much difficulty got it home, and broiled some of it, and ate. 
I would fain have stewed it, and made some broth, but had no pot. 

June 27. The ague again so violent that I lay abed all day, and 
neither ate nor drank. I was ready to perish for thirst ; but so 
weak, 1 had not strength to stand up, or to get myself any water 
to drink. Prayed to God again, but was light-headed : and when 
1 was not, I was so ignorant that I knew not what to say : 
only lay and cried. Lord, look upon me ! Lord, pity me ! Lord, 
have mercy upon me ! I suppose I did nothing else for two or 
three hours ; till the fit wearing off, I fell asleep, and did not wake 
till far in the night. When I awoke, I found myself much re- 
freshed, but weak, and exceeding thirsty ; however, as I had no 
water in my whole habitation, I was forced to lie till morning, 
and went to sleep again. In this second sleep I had this terrible 
dream : I thought that I was sitting on the ground, on the outside 
of my wall, where I sat when the storm blew after the earthquake, 
and that I saw a man descend firom a gre^t black cloud, in a bright 
flame of fire, and light upon the ground : he was all over as bright 
as a flame, so that I could but just bear to look towards him : his 
countenance was most inexpressibly dreadful, impossible for words 
to describe : when he stepped upon the ground with his feet, I 
thought the earth trembled, just as it had done before in the earth- 
quake ; and all the air looked, to my apprehension, as if it had 
been filled with flashes of fire. He had no sooner landed upon 
the earth, but he moved forward towards me, with along spear or 
weapon in his hand, to kill me ; and when^ he came to a rbing 
ground, at some distance, he spoke to me, or I heard a voice so 
terrible that it is impossible to express the terror of it : all that I 
can say I understood, was this : Seeing all these things have no 
brought thee to repentance, now thou shalt die ; at which words, 1 
thought he lifted up the spear that was in his hand, to kill me. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBIirSOl* CHIT^OE. 78 

Jfo one that shall ever read this account, will expect that 1 should 
be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this terrible vision , I 
mean, tLa: even while it was a dream, I even dreamed of those 
horrors ; nor is it any more possible to describe the impression 
that -remained upon my nnnd when I awaked, and found it wto 
but 81 dream. 

I had, alas ! no divine knowled^ : what I had received by the 
good instruction of my father was then worn out, by an uninter 
rupted series, for eight years, of seafaring wickedness, and a con- 
stant conversation, with none but such as were, like myself, wicked 
and profane to the last degree. I do not remember that I had, in 
all that time, one thought that so much as tended either to looking 
upward towards God, or inward towards a reflection upon my 
own ways i but a certain, stupidity of soul, without desire of good, 
or consciousness of evil, had entirely overwhehned me ; and I was 
all that the most hardened, unthinking, wicked creature among 
our common sailors, can be supposed to be ; not having the least 
sense, either of the fear of God, in danger, or of thankfulness to 
him, in deliverances. 

In the relating what ia already past of my story, this will be the 
more.easily believed, when! shall add, that through all the variety 
of miseries that had to this day befallen me, I never had so much 
as one thought of its being the hand of God, or that it was a just 
punishment for my sin ; either my rebellious behaviour against 
my father, or ray present sins, which were great : or even as a 
punishment for the general course of my wicked life. When 1 
was en the desperate expedition on the desert shores of Africa, I 
never had so much as one thought of what would become of me ; 
or one wish to God to direct me whither I should go, or to keep 
roe from the danger which apparently surrounded me, as well from 
voracious creatures as cruel savages : but I was quite thoughtless 
of a God or a Providence ; acted Kke a mere brute, from the prin- 
ciples of nature, and by the dictates of common sense only ; and 
indeed hardly that. When I was delivered and taken up at sea 
by the Portuguese captain, well used, and dealt with justly and 
honourably, as well as charitably, I had uot the least thankfulness 
in my thoughts. When again, I was shipwrecked, ruined, and in 
danger of drowning, on this island, I was as far from remorse, 04 
looking on it as a judgment : I only said to myself often, that I 
was an unfortunate dog, and born to be always miserable. 

It is true, when I first got on shore here, and found all my ship's 
crew drowned, and myself spared, I was surprised with a kind oi 
ecstasy, and some transports of soul, which, had the grace of God 
assisted, might have come up to true thankfulness : but it endod 

7 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



74 ADTKNTURJC8 OF 

where it began, in a mere common flight of joy ; ois as Imay «ay, 
being glad I was alive, without the least reflectien npen the dit- 
tinguished goodness of the band which had preseryed me, and had 
singled me out to be preserved when all the rest were destroyed, or 
an inquiry why Providence had been thus merciful to me : just the 
same common sort of joy which seamen generally have, after they 
are got safe ashore from a shipwreck; which they drown ail in the 
next bowl of punch, and forget almost as soon as it is over : and 
all the rest of my life was 'like it. Even when I was, afterwards, 
on due consideration, made sensible of my coadition,-^how i was 
cast on this dreadful place, out of the reach of human kind, out el 
all hope of relief, or prospect of redemption,— as soon as I saw 
but a prospect of living, and tliat I should not starve and perisl^ 
for htmger, all the sense of my alHictiou wore off, and I began to 
be very easy, applied myself to the works proper for my preser- 
vation and supply, and was far enough from being afflicted at my 
condition, as a judgment from Heaven, or as the hand of €^ 
against me : these were thoughts which, very seldom entered hito 
my head. 

The growing up of the com, as is hinted in my Journal, had, at 
first, some little influence upon me, and began to affect me wi^ 
seriousness, as long as I thought it had someUiing miraculous m 
it ; but as soon as that part of the thought was removed, all the 
impression which was raised from it wore off also^ as I have noted 
ahready Even the earthquake, though notiiing conld be more 
terrible in its nature, or more immediately directing to the invisible 
Power which alone directs stich things, yet no sooner was the 
fright over, but the impression it had made went off also. I had 
no more sens© of God, or his judgments, much less of the present 
affliction of my circumstances being from his hand, than if I had 
been in the most prosperous condition of life. But now, when I 
began to be sick, and a leisure view of the miseries of death came 
to place itself before me ; when my spirits began to sink under 
the burden of a strong distemper, and nature was exhausted with 
the violence of the fever ; conscience, that had slept so long, began 
to awake ; and I reproached myself with my past life, in which I 
had so evidently, by uncommon wickedness, provoked the justice 

, of God to lay me under uncommon strokes, and to deal with me 
in so vindictive a manner. These reflections oppressed me for 
the second or third day of my distemper ; and in the violence, ae 
well of the fever as .of the dreadful reproaches of my conscience 

* extorted from me some words like praying to God : though I can 
not say it was a prayer attended either with desires or wiih hopes ; 
it was rather the voice of mere fright and distress. My thoughts 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBII780N CRUSOX. 75 

were eonfixsed ; the convictioiis great upon my mind ; and the 
horror of dying in such a miserable condition, raided vapours in 
my head with the mere apprehension : and, in these hurries of 
my soul, I knew not what my tongue might express : but it was 
rather exclamation, such as. Lord, what a miserable creature am 
I ! If I should be sick, I shall certainly die for want of help ; and 
• what will become of me ? Then the tears burst out of my eyes, 
and I could say no more for a good while. In this interval, the 
good advice of my father came' to nty mind, and presently bis 
prediction, which I mentioned at the beginning of this story, viz. 
that if I did take this foolish step, God* would not bless me ; and 
I should have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his 
counsel, when there might be none to assist in my recovery. 
Now, said I, aloud, my dear father's words are come to pass ; 
God*s justice has overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear 
me. I rejected the voice of Providence, which had mercifully put 
me in a station of life wherein I might have been happy and easy; 
but I would neither see ix myself^ nor learn from my parents to 
know the blessing of it. I left them to mourn over my folly ; and 
now I am left to mourn under the consequences of it : I refused 
their help and assistance, who would have pushed me in the world, 
and would have made every thing easy to me ; and now I have 
difiicttlties to struggle with, too great for even nature itself to sup- 
port; and no assistance, no comfort, no advice. Then I criea 
out. Lord, be my hdp,. for I un in great dbtress. This was the 
first prayer, if I may call it so* that I had made for many yeara 
But I retttm to my /onmal. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION X. 

HX8 BEC0VERT.~HI8 COMPOBT IN BEADING THB SCRIPTURES.— MAKB8 kS ^X- 
COBSiON INTO THB INTERIOR OF THE ISLAND.— FORMS HIS ** BOWER.** 

JuxE 26. Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep 1 
had had, and the fit being entirely off, I got up ; and though the 
fright and terror of my dream was very great, yet I considered that 
the fit of the ague would return again the next day, and now waa 
my time to get something to refresh and support myself when I 
should be ill. The first thing I did was to fill a large square case 
bottle with water ; and set it upon my table, in reach of my bed : 
and to take off the chill or agubh disposition of the water, I put 
about a quarter of a pint of rum into it, and mixed, them together. 
Then I got me a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the 
coals, but could eat very little. I walked about ; but was very 
weak, and withal very sad and heavy-hearted in the sense of my 
miserable condition, dreading the return of my distemper the next 
day. At night, I made my supper of three of the turtle's eggs ; 
which I roasted in the ashes, and ate, as we call it, in the shell : 
and this was the first bit of meat I had ever asked God's blessing 
to, as I could remember, in my whole life. After I had eaten, I 
tried to walk; but found myself so weak, that I could hardly 
carry the gun (for I never went out without that) ; so I went but 
a little way, and sat down upon the ground, looking out upon the 
seR, which was just before me, and very calm and smooth. As I 
sat here, some such thoughts as these occurred to me : What is 
this earth and sea« of which I have seen so much ? Whence isf 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ftOBINS09 CRUSOE. T7 

pFodueed ? Ami what am I, and all the other creatures, wild and 
tame^ homan and bnital? Whence are we ? Surely, we are all 
made hy aome secret powar, who formed the earth and sea, the 
air and sky* And who b that ? Then it followed most naturally, it 
b Grod thai has made all. Well, but then, it came on, if God has made 
all ^lese diings, he guides and governs them all, and all things 
that concern them ; for the pawer diat could make all things, must 
certahily hare power to guide and direct them : if so, nothing can 
happen in the great circuit of his works, ehher without his know- 
ledge or i^pointment« 

And if nothing happens without . bk knowledge, he knows that 
I am here, and am in this dreadful condition : and if nothing hap- 
pens without his appointment, he has appointed all this to befall 
me. Nothing occurred to my bought, to contradict any of these 
eondttsions ; and therefore it rested upon me with Hm greatest force, 
that it must needs be that God had i^pointed all this to befall 
me ; that I was brought to tins miserable circumstance, by his 
diifectiea^ he hai^g the sole power, not of me only, but of every 
diing ^t hi^pens in the world. Immediately it followed. Why 
has God done ^s to me? What have I dene to be thus used ? 
My conscience presently checked me in that inquiry, as if I had 
blasphemed : and me thought it sp<^e to me like a voice, Wretch! 
dost thtm ask what thou hast done ? Look back upon a dreadful 
mupent life, and ask thyself what thou hast not done ? Ask, why is 
it that thou wert not long ago destroyed ? Why wert thou not 
drowned in Yarmouth Roads ; killed in the fight when the ship was 
taken by the Sailee man of war ; devoured by the wild beasts on 
the coast of AMea ; or drowned /lere, when all the crew perished 
but thyself ? Dost thou ask what thou hast done ? I was struck 
dumb with these reflections, as one astonished, and had not a 
word to say ; no, not to answer to myself; and, rising up pensive 
and sad, walked back to my retreat, and went over my wall, as if 
I had been going to bed : but my thoughts were sadly disturbed, 
and I had no inclination to sleep : so I sat down in the chair^ and 
lighted my lamp, for it began to be dark. Now, as the apprehen- 
sion of the return of my distemper terrified me very much, it oc- 
curred to my thought, that the Brazilians take no physic but their 
tobacco for almost all distempers ; and I had a piece of a roll of 
tobacco in one of the chests, which was quite cured ; and some 
also that was green, and not quite cured. 

I went, directed by Heaven no doubt : for in Uiis chest 1 found 
a cure both for soul and body. I opened the chest, and found 
what I looked for, viz. the tobacco ; and as the few books I had 
saved lay there top, I took out one of the Bibles which I montioued 

7» 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



78 ADTXITTURES 07 

beforet and which to this time I had not fottnd loisure, or so much 
as ineliuatioii, to look into. I say« I took it out, and bvoof^t boUi 
that and the tobacco with me to the table. What use to make of 
the tobacco I knew nott as to my distemper, uor whether it was 
good for it or not ; bat I tried soVeral experiments with it, as if I 
was reselved it should hit one way or other. I first took a pieee 
of a loaf, and chewed itin my mouth ; which* indeed, at first, ^most 
stupified my brain ; the tobacco being green and strong, «id sueh 
as I bad not been much used to. Then I took some and steeped 
it an hour or two in some rum, and resolved to take a dose of it 
when I lay down : and, lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of coals, 
and held my nose close orer the smoke of it as long as I could 
bear it ; as well for the heat, as almost for suffocalion. In the in- 
terval of this operation, I took up the Bible, and began to read; 
but my head was too much dbtitrbed with the tobacco to hear 
reading, at least at%litat time; only, having opened ike book 
casually, the first words that occurred to me were diese : ** Oidi 
on me hi the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and theit shah 
glorify me." These words were very i4)t to my case ; and made 
some impression upon my thoughts at the time of reading them, 
though not so much as they did afterwards ; for, as for being 
deUvtred^ the word had no sonnd, as I may say, to me; the tiung 
was so remote, so impossible in my apprehension of things, that, 
as the children of Israel said when they were promised fle^ to 
eat, *• Can CM spread a table in the ^vilderness?'* so i began to 
say, Can even God himself deliver me from this place ? And as 
it was not for many years that any hopes appeared, this prevailed 
very often upon my thoughts : but, Imwever, the words made a 
great impression upon me, and I mused upon tiiem very often. 
It now grew late ; and the tobacco had, as I said, dozed my hesd 
so much, that I inclined to «leep: so I left my lamp burning in 
the cave, lest I should want any thing in the night, and went to 
bed. Kttt before I lay down, I did what I never had done in aH 
my life ; I kn^ed down, and prayed to God to fulfil the promke 
to me, that if I called upon him in the day of trouble, he wonkl 
deliver me. After my broken and imperfect prayer was 6vor, I 
drank the rum in which I had steeped this tobacco : which was so 
strong and rank of the tobacco, that indeed I couM scarce got it 
down : immediately upon this I went to bed. I found presently 
the rum flew up into my head violently ; but I fell into a sound 
sleep, and waked no more till, by the sun, it must necessarily be 
near three o'clock in the afternoon the next day: nay, to this 
hour 1 am partly of opinion, that I slept all the next day and 
night, and tlu almost tb^ee the day after; for otherwtee, I know 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. Til 

" not how I should lose a day out of my reckouing m the days of 
the week, as it appeared some years after 1 had done ; for if I 
had lost it by crossing and recrossing the line, I should have lost 
more than one day; but certainly I lost a day in my account, and 
never knew which way. Be that, however, one way or the othei, 
when I waked I found myself exceedingly refreshed, and my 
spirits lively and cheerful ; when I got up, I was stronger than I 
was the day before, and my stomach better, for I was hungry; 
and, in short, I had no fit the next day, but continue^ much 
altered for the better. This was the 29th. 

The 30th was my well day, of course ; and 1 went abroad with 
my gun, but did not care to travel loo far. I killed a seafowl or 
two, something like a brand goose, and brought them home ; but 
was not very forward to eat them ; so I ate some more of the 
turtle's eggs, which were very good. This evening I renewed 
the medicine, which I had supposed did me good the day before, 
viz. the tobacco steeped in rum ; only I did not take so much as 
before, nor did I chew any of the leaf, or hold my head over the 
• smoke : however, I was not so well the next day, which was the 
1st of July, as I hoped I should have been ; for I had a little of the 
cold fit, but it was not much. 

July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways ; and dosed 
myself with it as at first, and doubled the quantity which I drank. 

July 3. I missed the fit for good and all, though I did not 
recover my full strength for some weelcs after. While I was thus 
gathering strength, my thoughts ran exceedingly upon this scrip- 
ture, " I will deliver thee ;" and the impossibility of my deliver- 
ance lay much upon my mind, in bar of my ever expecting it : 
but as I was discouraging myself with such thoughts, it occurred 
to my mind that I pored so much upon my deliverance from the 
main affliction, that I disregarded the deliverance I had received ; 
and I was, as it were, made to ask myself such questions as these, 
viz. Have I not been delivered, and wonderfully too, from sick- 
ness ; from the most distressed condition that could be, and that 
Wris so frightful to me? and what notice have 1 taken of it? 
Have I done my part? God has delivered me, but I have not 
f^lorified him ; that is to say, I have not owned and been thankful 
fiir that as a deliverance : and how can I expect a greater de- 
liverance ? This touched my heart very much ; and immediately 
f knelt down, and gave God thanks aloud for my recovery from 
my sickness. 

July 4. In the morning 1 took the Bible ; and beginning at the 
New Testament, I began seriously to read it; and imposed upon 
myself to read awhile everj- morning and every nigh*: not bind- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



60 AOVIClfTURES OF 

iDg myself to the number of 4:hapter8, but as long as my thoughts 
should engage me. It was not long after 1 set seriously to this 
work, that I found my heart more deeply and sincerely affected 
with the wickedness of my past life. The impression of my 
dream revived ; and the words, All these things have not brought 
thee to repentance, ran seriously in my thoughts. I was earnestly 
begging of God to give me repentance, when it happened pro 
videntially, the very same day, that, reading the scripture, 1 
came to these words, •* He b exalted a Prince and a Saviour ;*'to 
give repentance, and to give remission." I threw down the 
book ; and with my heart as well as my hands lifted up to heaven, 
in a kind of ecstasy of joy, I cried out aloud, Jesus, thou son of 
David ! Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour! give me repent- 
ance ! This was the first time in all my life I could say, in the true 
sense of the words, that I prayed; for now I prayed with a 
sense of my condition, and with a true scripture view of hope, 
founded on the encouragement of the word of God : and from 
this time, I may say, I began to have hope that God would 
hear me. 

Now I began to construe the words mentioned above, <* Call 
on me, and I will deliver thee,*' in a different sense from what 1 
had ever done before ; for then I had no notion of any thing being 
called delwerame, but my being delivered from the captivity I was 
in : for though I was indeed at large in the place, yet the island 
was certainly a prison to me, and that in the worst sense in 
the world. But now I learned to take it in another sense : now 
I looked back upon my past life with such horror, and my sins 
appeared so dreadful, that my soul sought nothing of God but 
deliverance from the load of guilt that bore down all my comfort. 
As for my solitary life, it was nothing ; I did not so much as pray 
to be delivered from it, or think of it ; it was all of no consider- 
ation, in comparison with this. And I add this part here, to hint 
to whoever shall read it, that whenever they come to a true sense 
of things, they will find deliverance from sin a much greater 
blessing than deliverance from affliction. 

My condition began now to be, though not less miserable as to 
my way of living, yet much easier to my mind : and my thoughts 
being directed, by constantly reading the scripture and praying to 
God, to things of a higher nature, I had a great doal of comfort 
within, which, till now, I knew nothing of; also, as my health 
and strength returned, I bestirred me to furnish myself with every 
thing that 1 wanted, and make my way of living as regular as 1 
could. 

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly employed in 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ftOBINBON CRUSOE. 81 

walking about with my gun in my haxk4, a little and a little at a 
time, as a man that was gathering up his strength after a fit of 
sickness : lor it is hardly to be imagined how low I was, and to 
n^hat weakness I was reduced. The application which I made 
use of was perfectly new, and perhaps what had never cured an 
ague before ; neither can I recommend it to any one to practise, 
by this experiment : and though it did carry off the fit, yet it 
rather contributed to weakening me ; for I had frequent convul- 
sions in my nerves and limbs for some time : I learned from it 
also this, in particular; that being abroad in the rainy season was 
the most pernicious thing to my health that could be, especially 
in those rains which came attended with storms and hurricanes 
of wind; for as the rain which came in the dry session was almost 
always accompanied with such storms, so I found that this rain 
was much more dangerous than the rain which fell in September 
and October. 

I had now been in this unhappy island above ten months ; all 
possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to be entirely 
taken from me ; and I firmly believed diat no human shape had ever 
set foot upon that place. Having secured my habitation, as I 
thought, fully to my mind, I had a great desire to make a more 
perfect discovery of the island, and to see what other productions 
I might find, which I yet knew nothing of. 

It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a more parti- 
cular survey of the island itself. I went up the creek first, where, 
as I hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. I found, after I came 
about two miles up, that the tide did not flow any higher ; and 
that it was no more than a little brook of running water, very 
fresh and good : bitt this being the dry season, there was hardly 
any water in some parts of it ; at least not any stream. On the 
banks of this brook I found many pleasant savannahs or mea- 
dows, plain, smooth, and covered with grass : and on the rising parts 
of them, next to the higher grounds (where the water, as it might 
be supposed, never overflowed), I foimd a great deal of tobacco, 
green, and growing to a very great and strong stalk ; and there 
were divers other plants, which I had no knowledge of, or under- 
standing about, and that might, perhaps, have vhrtues of their 
own, which I could not find out. I searched for the cassava 
root, which the Indians, in all that climate, make their bread of; 
but I could find none. I saw large plants of aloes, but did not 
understand them. I saw several sugar-canes, but wild ; and, for 
want of cultivation, imperfect. I contented myself with these 
discoveries for this time ; and came back, musing with myself 
what course I might take to know the virtue and goodness o. any 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



0S ADVEIfTtTAKt or 

of the fruits or plants which I should discover ; but could bring i 
to no conclusion ; for, in short, I had made so little observatioii 
while I was in the Brazils, that I knew little of the plants in the 
field ; at least, very little that might senre me to any purpose now 
in my distress* 

The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again ; and 
after going something farther than I had gone the day before, I 
found the brook and the savannahs begin to cease, and the coun- 
try become more woody than before. In this part I found dif* 
fereat fruits ; and particularly I found melons upon the ground, 
in great abundance, and gri^s upon the trees : the vines, in^ 
deed, had spread over the trees, and the clusters of grapes were 
now just in their prime, very ripe and rich. This was a sur- 
prising discovery, and I was exceedingly glad of them, but I ' 
was warned by my experience to eat sparingly of them; remem- 
bering that when I was ashore in Barbary, ^e eating of grapes 
killed several of our Englishmen, who were slaves there, by 
throwing them into fluxes and fevers. I found, however, an ex- 
cellent use for these grapes ; and that was, to cure ordiy them in 
the sun, and keep them as dried grapes or raisins are kept; 
which I thought would be (as indeed they were) as wholesome 
and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes were to be had. 

I spent all that evening there, and went not baek to my habi 
tation ; which, by the way, was the first night, as I might say, I 
had lain from home. At night, I took my first contrivance, and 
got up into a tree, where I slept well; and the next morning 
proceeded on my discovery, travelling near four miles, as I might 
judge by the length of the vaHey ; (ceeping still due north, with a 
ridge of hills on the south and north aides of me. At the end of 
this march I came to an opening, where the country seemed to 
descend to the west ; and a little spring of fresh water, which 
issued out of the side of the hill by me, ran the other way, that 
is, due ea^; and the country appeared so fresh, so green, so 
flourishing, every thing bemg in a constant verdure, or flourish 
of spring, that it looked like a planted garden. I descended a 
little on the side of that delicious vale, surveying it with a seeret 
kind of pleasure (though mixed with other afflicting thoughts), to 
think that this was all my own ; that I was king and lord of all 
this country indefeasibly, and had a right of possession ; and, if I 
could convey it, I might have it in inheritance as completely as any 
lord of a m^uior in England. I saw here abundance of cocoa- 
trees, and orange, lemon, and citron trees, but all wild, and ver) 
few bearing any fruit ; at least not then. However, the green 
limes that I gathered were not only pleasant to eat, but very 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CKUSOE. .83 

wbolesomd ; and I mixed their juice afterwards with water, 
which made it rery wholesome, atid very cool and refreshing. I 
found BOW I had business enough, to gather and carry home ; 
and I resolved to lay up a store, as well of grapes as limes and 
lemons, to furnish myself for the wet season, which I knew was 
approaching* In order to this, I gathered a great heap of grapes 
in one place, a lesser heap in another place; and a great parcel 
ef limes and lemons in another place ; and, taking a few of each 
with me, I travelled homeward; and resolved to come agaiui 
and brin^ a bag or sack, or what I could make, to carry the rest 
home. Accordingly, having sp^nt three days in this journey, I 
came home (so I must now call my tent and my cave) : but be- 
fore I got thither, the grapes were spoiled ; the richness of the 
fruits, and the weight of the juice, having broken and bruised 
them, they were good for little or nothing : as to the limes, they 
were good, but I could bring only a few. 

The next day being the l&th, I went back, having made me two 
small bags to bring home my harvest; but I was surprised, when, 
eoming to my heap of grapes, which were so rich and fine when 
I gathered theuL, I found them all spi^ad about, trod to pieces, 
and dragged about, soitie here, some there, and abundance eaten 
and devoured. By this I concluded there were some wild crea- 
tures thereabouts which had done this, but what they were I 
knew not. However, as I found there was no laying them up in 
heaps, and no carrying them a-way in a sack ; but that one way 
ihey would be destroyed, and the other way they would be 
crushed with their own weight ; I took another course ; I then 
gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and hung them upon the 
out-branches of the trees, that they might cure and dry in the 
sun ; and as for the limes and lemons, I carried as many back as 
I could well stand under. 

When I came home from this journey, I contemplated with great 
pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley, and the pleasantness of 
the situation ; the security from storms on that side ; the water 
and the wood ^ and concluded that I had pitched upon a place 
to fix my abode in, which was by far the worst part of the coun- 
try. Upon the whole, I began to consider of removing my 
habitation, and to look out for a place equally safe as where I 
was naw situate ; if possible, in that pleasant fruitful part of the 
island. 

This thought ran long in my head ; and I was exceedingly fond 
of it for some time, the pleasantness of the place tempting mr 
but when I came to a nearer view of it, I considered that I wrss 
now by the seaside, where it was at least possible that somethioii 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



84 ilDVEXVTUAKS CF 

might happen to my advantage, and, by the same ill fate that 
brought me hither, might bring some other unhappy wretches to 
the same place ; and though it was scarce probable that any such 
thing should ever happen, yet to enclose myself among the hills and 
woods in the centre of the island, was to anticipate my bondage, 
and to render such an aflair not only improbable, but impossible ; 
and that therefore I ought not by any means to remove. How- 
ever, I was so enamoured of this place, that I spent much of my 
time there for the whole remaining part of the month of July ; 
and though, upon second thoughts, I resolved, as above stated, 
not to remove, yet I built me a little kind of a bower, and sur- 
rounded it at a distance with a strong fence, being^ a double 
hedge, as high as I could reach, well staked, and filled between 
with brushwood. Here I lay very secure, sometimes two or three 
nights together ; always going over it with a ladder, as before : 
so that I fancied now I had my country and seacoast house. 
This work took me up till the beginning of August. 

I had but newly finished my fence, and began to enjoy my 
labour, when the rains came on, and made me stick close to my 
first habitation: for though I had made a tent like the other, 
with a piece of sail, and spread it very well, yet I had not the 
shelter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave behind 
me to retreat into when the rains were extraordinary. 

About the beginning of August, as I said, I had finished my 
bower, and began to enjoy myself. The 3d of August, I found 
the grapes I had hung up were perfectly dried, and indeed wer 
excellent good raisins of the sun ; so I began to take them down 
from the trees; and it was very happy that I did so, as the rains 
which followed would have spoiled them, and I should have lost 
the best part of my winter food ; for I had above two hundred 
large bunches of tbem. No sooner had I taken them all down, 
and carried most of them home to my cave, but it began to rain . 
and from hence, which was the 14th of August, it rained, more or 
less, every day till the middle of October; and sometimes so 
violently, that I could not stir out of my cave for several days 

In this season, I was much surprised with the increase of my 
family.' I had been concerned for the loss of one of my cats, who 
ran away from me, or, as I thought, had been dead ; and I heard 
no more of her, till, to my astonishment, she came home with 
three kittens. This was the more strange to me, because, about 
the end of August, though I had killed a wild cat, as I called it, 
with my gun, yet I thought it was quite a difierent kind from oui 
European cats : yet the young eats were the same kind of house- 
breed as the <>ld one; and both of my cats being females, I thought 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBIIfSON C&USOK. B^. 

it very strange. But fronrf these three, I afterwards eame to be so 
pestered with cats, that I was forced to kill them like vermin, or 
wild beasts, and to drive them from my house as much as 
possible. 

From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain ; so that I 
could not stir, and was now very careful not to be much wet. In 
this confinement, I began to ba straitened for food ; but venturing 
out twice, I one day killed a goat, and the last day, which was the 
26th, found a very large tortoise, which was a treat to me. My 
food was now regulated thus : I ate a hunch of raisins for my 
breakfast ; a piece of the goaVs flesh, or of the turtle, broiled, for 
my dinner (for, to my great misfortune, I had no vessel to boil or 
stew any thing) ; and two or three of the turtle's eggs for my 
supper. 

During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I worked daily 
two or three hours at enlarging my cave : and by degrees worked 
it on towards one side, till I came to the outside of the hill ; and 
made a door, or way out, which came beyond my fence or wall : 
and so I came in and out this way. But I was not perfectly easy 
at lying so open : for as I had managed myself before, J was in 
a perfect enclosure ; whereas now, I thought I lay exposed ; and 
yet I could not perceive that there was any living thing to fear, 
the biggest creature that I had yet seen upon the island being a 
goat. 

September 30. 1 was now come to the unhappy anniversary 
of my landing ; I cast up the notches on my post, and found I had 
been on shore three hundred and sixty-five days. I kept this dny 
as a solemn fast ; setting it apart for religious exercise, prostrating 
myself on the ground with the most serious humiliation, confess- 
ing my sins to God, acknowledging his righteous judgments upou 
me, and praying to him to have mercy on me through Jesus Christ ; 
and having not tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours, even 
till the going down of the sun, I then ate a biscuit and a bunch of 
grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as I began it. I had 
all this time observed no sabbath-day ; for as at first I had no 
sense of religion upon my mind, I had, after some time, omitted 
to distinguish the weeks, by making a longer notch than ordinary 
for the sabbath-day, and so did not really know what any of the 
days were : but now having cast up the days, as above, I found I 
had been there a year ; so I divided it into weeks, and set apart 
every seventh day for a sabbath : though I found, at the end of 
my account, I had lost a day or two in my reckoning. A little 
after this, my ink beginning to fail me. I contented myself to use 
It more sparingly ; and tp write down only the most remarkable 

8 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



88 ADTKITTUKKS OF 

eveutt of my lif^, withont continuing a daily memorandum of 
other things. 

The rainy season and the dry season began now to appear regu- 
lar to me, and I learned to divide them so as to provide for them 
accordingly ; bnt I bought all my experience before I had it ; and 
what I am going to relate was one of the most discouraging ex- 
periments that I had made at all. 

I have mentioned that I had saved the few ears of barley, and 
rice, which I had so surprisingly found sprung up, as I thought, of 
themselves. I believe there were about thirty stalks of rice, and 
about twenty of bariey ; and now I thought it a proper time to 
sow it after the rains ; the sun being in its southern position, going 
from me. Accordingly I dug a piece of ground, as well as I could, 
with my wooden spade ; and dividing it into two parts, I sowed 
my grain; but, as I was sowing, it casually occurred to my 
tiboughts that I would not sow it all at first, because I did not 
know when was the proper time for it ;. so I sowed about two- 
thirds of the seed, leaving about a handful of each : and it was a 
great comfort to me afterwards that I did so, for not one grain of 
what I sowed this time came to any thing ; for the dry month 
following, and the earth having thus had no rain after the seed 
was sown, it had no moisture to assist its groAvth, and never came 
up at all till the wet season had come again, and then it grew as 
if it had been but newly sown. Finding my first seed did not 
grow, which I easily imagined was from the drought, I sought for 
a moister piece of ground to make another trial in ; and I dug up 
a piece of ground near my new bower, and sowed the rest of my 
seed in February, a little before the vernal equinox. This haying 
the rainy months of March and April to water it, sprung up very 
pleasantly, and yielded a very good crop; but having only part of 
the seed left, and not daring to sow all thatlhad, I got but a small 
quantity at last, my whole crop not amounting to above half a 
peck of each kind. But by this experiment I was made ma4ter 
of my business, and knew exactly when was the proper time to 
sow ; and that I might expect two seed-times, and two harvests, 
every year. 

While this com was growing, I made a little discovery, which 
was of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains were over, and 
the weather began to settle, which was about the month of No- 
vember, I made a visit up the country to my bower ; where, though 
f had not been for some months, yet I found all things just as I left 
them. The circle or double hedge that I had made was not only 
firm and entire, but the stakes which I had cut out of some trees 
that grew thereabouts, were all shot out and ||;rown with lon^ 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



• ftOBinsoi? CRUSOE. 87 

branches, as much as a willow-tree usually shoots the first yeai 
after loppiug its head ; but I could not tell what tree to call it that 
these stakes were cut from. I was surprised, and yet very well 
pleased, to see the young trees grow ; and I pruned them, and led 
them to groTi' as much alike as I could : and it is scarce credible 
how beaatiful a figu*e they grew into in three years : so that, 
though the hedge made a circle of about twenty-five yards in 
diameter, yet the trees, for >6uch I might now call them, soon 
covered it, and it was a complete shade, sufiScient to lodge under 
all the dry season. This made me resolve to cutsome more stakes, 
and make me a hedge like this, in a semicircle round my wall (I 
mean that of my first dwelling), which I did ; and placing the trees 
or stakes in a double row, at about eight yajrds distance from my 
first fence, they grew presently ; and were at first a fine cover to 
my habitation, and afterwards served for a defence also ; as I shall 
observe in its order. 



Digitized 



by Google 



SECTION XI. 

SOBIN80N MAKES A TOUR TO EXPLORE HI8 ISLAND.— EMPLOYED IN BASKET 
MAKING. 

I FOUND now that the seasons of the year might generally be 
divided, not into summer and winter, as in Europe, but into the 
rainy seasons and the dry seasons, which were generally thus : 
From the middle of February to the middle of April, rainy ; the 
sun being then on or near the equinox. From the middle of 
April to the middle of August, dry; the sun being then north oi 
the line. From the middle of August till the middle of October, 
rainy ; the sun being then come back to the line. From the mid- 
dle of October till the middle of Fjebruary, dry ; the sun being then 
to the south of the line. 

The rainy seasons held sometimes longer and sometimes shorter, 
as the wind happened to blow ; but this was the general observa- 
tion I made. Aiter I had found, by experience, the ill consequen- 
ces of being abroad in the rain, I took care to furnish myself with 
provbions beforehand, that I might not be obliged to go out : and 
I sat within doors as much as possible during the wet months 
This time I found much employment, and very suitable also to the 
time ; for I found great occasion for many things which I had no 
way to furnish myself with, but by hard labour and constant ap- 
plication : particularly, I tried many ways to make myself a 
basket: but all the twigs I could get for the purpose proved so 
brittle, that they would do nothing. It proved of excellent ad- 
vantage to me now, that when I was a boy, I used to take great 
delight in standing at a basket-maker^s in the town where my 
father lived, to see them make their wicker-ware ; . and being, as 
boys usually are, very officious to help, and a great observer of 
%he manner how they worked those things, and sometimes lending 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBIRSOlf CAUSOE. 6V 

a band, I had by these means full knowledge of the metHods of it, 
so that I wanted nothmg but the materials ; when it came into my 
mind, that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut my stakes that 
grew might possibly be as^ tough as the sallows, willows, and osiers, 
in England ; and I resolved to try. Accordingly, the next day, 
I went to my country-house, as I called it ; and cutting some of 
the §»maller twigs, I found them to my purpose as much as I could 
desire : whereupon I came the next time prepared with a hatchet 
to cut down a quantity, which I soon found, for there was great 
plenty of them. These I set up to dry within my circle or hedge ; 
and when they were fit for use, I carried them to my cave : and 
here, during the next season, I employed myself in making, as 
well as I could, several baskets ; both to carry earth, or $o carry 
or lay up any thing as I had occasion for. Though I did not 
finish them very handsomely, yet I made them sufficiently ser- 
viceable for my purpose : and thus, afterwards, I took care never 
to be without them ; and as my wicker-ware decayed, I made 
more ; especially strong deep baskets, to place my com in, instead 
of sacks, when I should come to have any quantity of it. 

Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a worid of time 
about it, I bestirred myself to see, if possible, how to supply two 
other wants. I had no vessel to hold any thing that was liquid, 
except two runlets, which were almost full of rum ; and some 
glass bottles, some of the common size, and others (which were 
case-bottles) square, for the holding of water, spirits, &c. I had 
not so much as a pot to boil any thing ; except a great kettle, 
which I saved out of the ship, and which was too big for such use 
as I desired it, viz. to make broth, and stew a bit of meat by it- 
self. The second thing I would fain have had, was a tobacco- 
pipe ; but it was impossible for me to nuike one ; however, I 
found a contrivance for that too at last. I employed myself in 
planting my second row of stakes of piles, and also in this 
wicker-working, all the summer or dry season ; when another 
business took me up more time than it could be imagined I could 
spare. 

I mentioned before, that J had a great nund to see the whole 
island ; and that J had travelled up the brook, and so on to where 
I had built my bower, and where I had an opening quite to the 
sea, on the other side of the jsland. I now resolved to travel 
quite across to the seashore* on that side : so taking my gun, a 
hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quantity of powder and shot 
than usual ; with two biscuit-cakes, and a great bunch of raisius 
in my pouch, for my store ; I began my journey. When I had 
passed the vale where my bower stood, as above, I came within 

8* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



90 AOVKNTORCt OF 

riew of th j sea^ to the west ; and it being a rerj clear daj^ 1 
fairly descried land, whether an island or continent I could not 
tell ; but it lay very high, extending from W. to W. S. W. at a 
▼ery great distance ; by my guess, it could not be less than fifteen 
or twenty leagues off. 

I could not tell what part of the world this might be ; otherwise 
than that I knew it must be part of America; andt as I concluded, 
by all my obsenratiotts, must be near the SpanbhdoniiBious; and 
perhaps was all inhabited by sarages, where, if I should have 
landed, I had been in a worse condition than I was now. I 
therefore acquiesced in the dispositions of Providence, ^vhich I 
began now to own and to believe ordered every thing for the 
best ; I say, I quieted my mind with this, and left off afflicting 
myself with fruitless wishes of being there. Besides, after some 
pause upon this affidr, I considered that if this land was the Span^ 
ish coast, I should certainly, one time or other, see some vessel 
pass or repass one way or other; but if not, then it was the 
savage coast between the Spanish country and the Brasils, whose 
inhabitants are indeed the worstof savages; for they are cannibals 
or men-eaters, and fail not to murder and devour all humatt beings 
that fall into their hands. 

With these considerations, walking very leisurely forward, I 
found this side of the island, where I now was, much pleasanter 
than mine ; die open or savannah fields sweetly adorned with 
flowers and grass, and full of very fine woods. I saw abutulahce 
of parrots; and fain would have caught one, if possible, to have 
kept it to be tame, and taught it to speak to me. I did, after ta- 
king some pains, catch a young parrot ; for I knocked it down 
with a stick, and, having recovered it, I brought it home : but it 
was some years before I could make him speak ; however, at last 
I taught him to call me by my name very familiarly. But the 
accident that followed, though it be a trifle, will be very diverting 
in its place. 

I was exceedingly amused with this journey. I found in the low 
grounds hares, as I thought them to be, and foxes : but they differed 
greatly from all the other kinds I had met with; nor could I satisfy 
myself to eat them, though I kiHed several. But I had no need to 
be venturous : for I had no want of food, and of that which was 
very good too ; especially these three sorts, viz. goats, pigeons, 
and turtle, or tortoise. With these, added tQ my grapes, Leaden- 
hall market could not have furnished a table better than I, ic 
proportion to the company ; and though my case y^9fi deplorable 
enough, yet I ha d great cause for thankfulness ; as I was not driven 
to any extremities for food, but had rather plenty, even to dainties 



Digitized by VjOOQ iC 



iioBiirsoif GRmoE.- 91 

I never ^rarelled on this journey above two miles outright in a 
day, or thereabout ; but I took so many turns and returns, to see 
what discoveries I could make, that I came weary enough to the 
place where I resolved to sit down for the night ; and then I 
either reposed myself in a tree, or surrounded myself with a row 
of stakes, set upright in the ground, either from one tree to 
another, or so as no wild creature could come at me without 
waking me. 

As soon as I came to the seasnore, I was surprised to see that 
I had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island : for here 
indeed the shore was covered with innumerable turtles : whereas, 
on the other side, I had found but three in a year and a half. 
Here was also an infinite number of fowls of many kinds ; some 
of which i had seen, and some of which I had not seen before, and 
many of them very good meat; but such as I knew not the 
names of, except those called penguins. 

I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter than 
mine ; yet I had not the least inclination to remove ; for as I was 
fixed in my habitation, it became natural to me, and I seemed all 
the while I was here to be as it were upon a journey, and from 
home. However, I travelled along the seashore towards the east, 
I suppose about twelve miles ; and then setting up a great pole 
upon the shore for a mark, I concluded I woukl go home again ; 
and that the next journey I took should be on the other side of the 
islimd, east from my dwelling, and so round till I came to my 
post again; of which in its place. 

I took another way to come back than that I went, thinking I 
could easily keep so much of the island in my view, that I could 
not miss my first dwelling by viewing the country ; but I found 
myself mistaken; for being come about two or three miles, I 
found myself descended into a very large valley, but so sur- 
rounded with hills, and those hills covered with wood, that I 
could not see which was my way by any direction but that of the 
sun, nor even then, unless I knew very well the position of the 
sun at that time c^ the day. And it happened to my farther mis- 
fortune, that the weather proved hazy for three or four days 
while I was in this valley ; and not being able to see thi^ sun, I 
wandered about very uncomfortable, and at last was obliged to 
find out the seaside, look for my post, and eome back the same 
way I TvCiJl ; *!i>d then by easy journeys I turned homeward, tho 
weather r>elug exceeding hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, 
and other things very heavy. * 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION xn. 

HE RETU&KS TO HIS CAVE.— HIS AGBICULTUBAL LABOURS AJSD SUCCBSS. 

lir this journey, my dog surprised a young kid, and seized upon 
i t ; and running to take hold of it, I caught it, and saved it alive 
from the dog. I had a great mind to bring it home if I could-, 
but I had often been musing whether it might not be possible to 
get a kid or two, and so raise a breed of tame goats, which 
might supply me when my powder and shot should be all spent. 
1 made a collar for this little creature, and with a string which I 
had made of some rope-yam, which I always carried about me, 
I led him along, though with some difficulty, till I came to my 
bower, and there I enclosed him and left him ; for I was very 
impatient to be at home, from whence I had been absent above 
a month. 

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to come into 
my old hutch, and lie down in my bammock bed. This little 
wandering journey, without a settled place of abode, had been so 
unpleasant to me, that my own house, as I called it to myself, 
was a perfect settlement to me, compared to that ; and it ren- 
dered every thing about me so comfortable, that I resolved I 
would never go a great way fi'om it again, while it should be my 
lot to stay on the island. 

I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself after 
my long journey : during which, Aiost of the time was taken up 
in the weighty affair of making a cage for my Poll, who began 



Digitized 



by Google 



ttoBrNsoir CRVsoc ^ 

now to be moro diomestic, and to be mighty well acquainted with 
me. Then I began to think of the poor kid which I had penned 
within my little circle, and resolyed to fetch it home, or give it 
some food : accordingly I went, and found it where I left it (for 
indeed it could not get out), but %vas almost starved for want of 
food. I went and cut boughs of trees, and branches of such 
shrubs as I could find, and threw it over, and having fed it, I tied 
it as I did before, to lead it away ; but it was so tame with being 
hungry, that I had no need to have tied it, for it followed mo like 
a dog : and as I continually fed it, the creature became so loving, 
so gentle, and so fond, that it was from that time one of my 
domesdcs also, and would never leave me afterwards. 

The rainy reason of the autumnal equinox was now come, and 
I kept the 30th of September in the same solemn manner as be- 
fore, being the anniversary of my landing on the island ; having 
now be«i there two years, and no more prospect of being delivered 
than the first day I came there. I spent the whole day in humble 
and thankful acknowledgments for the many wonderful mercies 
which my solitary condition was attended with, and without 
which it might have been infinitely more miserable. I gave hum- 
ble and hearty thanks to God for having been pleased to discover 
to me, that it was possible I might be more happy even in this 
solitary condition, than I should have been in the eijoyment of 
society, and in all the pleasures of the world : that he could fully 
make up to me the deficiencies of my solitary state, and the want 
of human society, by his presence, and the communications of his 
grace to my soul ; supporting, comforting, and encouraging me 
to depend upon his providence here, and to hope for his eternal 
presence hereafter. 

It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more happy 
the life I now led was, with all its miserable circumstances, than 
the wicked, cursed, abominable life I led all the past part of my 
days : and now I changed both my sorrows and my joys ; my 
very desires altered, my affections chauged their gusts, and my 
delights were perfectly new from what they were at my first com- 
mg, or indeed for the two years past. Before, as I walked 
about, either on my hunting, or for viewing the country, the 
anguish of my soul at my condition would break out upon me on 
a sudden, and my very heart would dio within me, to think of 
the woods, the mountains, the deserts I was in ; and how 1 was 
a prisoner, locked up with the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, 
in an uninhabited wilderness, without redemption. In the midst 
of the greatest composures of my mind, this would break out upon 
mo like a storm, and make me wring my hands, and weep like a 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



94 Avrvmfvwmn of 

child: iQinetuiiat k wo«ld ti^e me ia the middle of my work, 
imd I would immediateij sit dowa and aigh, end look upon the 
ground for an hour or two together : this wae still worse to me ; 
but if I ceuld burst into teiurs, or give yent to my £selings by 
words, it would go off; and ray grief being exhausted, would 
abate. 

But now I began to exercise myself with new tiiottghts; I 
daily read the word of God, and applied all the eomibrts of it to 
my present state. One morning, being very sad, I opened the 
Bible upon these words, ** I will never leave thee, nor forsake 
thee*** immediately it occurred that these words were to me; 
why else should they be directed in such a manner, just at the 
moment when I was mourning over my condition* as one for- 
saken of God and man ? Well then, said I, if God does n^t for* 
sake me, of what ill consequence can it be, or what matters it, 
though the world should forsake me ; seeing, on the other hand* 
if I had all the world, and should lose the favour and blessing el 
God, there would be no comparison in the loss? 

From this moment I began to conclude in ray mind, that it 
was possible for me to be noore happy ia this forsaken, solitary 
condition, than it was probable I should ever have been in any 
other particular state in the world ; and with this thought I was 
going to give thanks to God for bringing me to this place 1 
know not what it was, but aomethiog shocked ray mind at that 
thought, and I durst not speak the words* How canst thou be 
such a hypocrite, said I, even audibly, to pretend to~ be.Uiankful 
for a condition, which, however thou mayest endeavour lo be 
contented with, thou wouldest rather pray heartily to be delivered 
from ? Here I stopped : but though I could not say I thanked 
God for being here, yet I sincerely gave thanks to God for open 
ing my eyes, by whatever afflicting providences, to see the (brme 
condition of my life, and to mourn for my wickedness, and repent. 
I never opened the Bible, or shut it, but my very soul within me 
blessed God for directing my friend L\ England, without any order 
of mine, to pack it up among my goods ; and for assisting me 
afterwards to save it out of the wreck of the ship. 

Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third year ; 
and though I have not given the reader the trouble of so parti- 
cular an account of my works this year as the first, yet in general 
it may be observed, that I was very seldom idle ; but having regu- 
larly divided my time, according to the several daily employments 
th.at were before me ; such as, first, My duty to God, and the 
leading the scriptures, which I constantly set apart some time 
for. thrice every day : secondly, Goin^ abroad with my gun for 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROAINSOlf CRUSOE* 95 

^od» ivhicli generally took me up three hours every mormng, 
when it did not rain ; thirdly, Ordering, curing, preserving, and 
cooking what I had killed or catched for my supply : these took 
up a great part of the day ; also it is to he considered, that in the 
middle of the day, when the sun was in the zenith, the violence 
of the heat was too great to stir out ; so that about four hours in 
the evening was all the time I could be supposed to work in ; 
with this exception, that sometimes I changed my hours of hunt- 
ing and working, and went to work in the morning, and abroad 
with my gun in the afternoon. 

To this 9hort time allowed for labour, I desire may be added 
the exceeding laboriousnese of my work ; the many hours which, 
for want of toolB, want of help, and want of skill, every thing I 
did took up out of my time : for example, I was full two and 
iorty days making me a board for a long shelf, which I wanted in 
my cave : whereas, two sawyecs* with their tools and a sawpit, 
would have cut six of them out of the saipae tree in half a day. 

My case was this; it was a large tree which was to be cut 
down, because my board was to be a broad one. This tree I 
was three days cutting down, and two more in cutting off the 
boughs, and reducing it to a k)g, or piece of timber. With inex- 
pressible hacking and hewing, I reduced both the sides of it into 
chips, till it was light enough to move ; then I turned it, and 
made one side of it smooth and flat as a board; from ei^d to end ; 
then turning that side downward, cut the other side, till I 
brought the plank to be about three inches thick, and smooth on 
both sides. Any one may judge the labour of my hands in such 
.a piece of work ; but labour and patience carried me through 
^at, and many other things : I only observe this in particular, to 
show the reason why so much of my time went away with so 
Uttle work, viz. that what might be a little to be done with help 
and tools, was a vast labour, and required a prodigious time to 
do alone, and by hand. Notwithstanding this, with patience and 
labour I went through many things; and, indeed, every thing 
that my circumstances made necessary for me to do, as will ap- 
pear by what follows. • 

I was now in the months of November and December, expect- 
ing my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had manured or 
dug up for them was not* great; for, as I observed, my seed of 
each was not above the quantity of half a peck, having lost one 
whole crop by sowing in the dry season : but now my crop pro- 
mised very well ; when, on a sudden, I found I was in danger of 
losing it all again by enemies of several sorts, which it was scarce 
possible to keep from it; as, first, the goats, and wild creatures 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



96 APVKNTDRES OF 

which I called hares, who. tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay 
in it night and day, as soon as it came up, and ate it so close, that 
it could get no time to shoot up into stalk. 

I saw no remedy for this, but by making an enclosure about it 
with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of toil ; and the more, 
because it required speed. However, •as my arable land was but 
small, suited to my crop, I got it tolerably well fenced in about three 
weeks* time; and shootmg some of the creatures in the daytime, 
I set my dog to guard it in the night, tying him up to a stake at 
the gate, where he would stand and bark all night long ; so in a 
little time the enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew very 
strong and well, and began to ripen apace. 

But as the beasts ruined me before, while my com was in the 
blade, so the birds were as likely to ruin me now, when it was in 
the ear : for going along by the place to see how it throve, I saw 
my little crop surrouhded with fowls, I know not of how many 
sorts, who stood, as it were, watching till I should l>e gone. I 
immediately let fly among them (for I always had my gun with 
me) ; I had no sooner shot, but there rose up a little cloud of fowk, 
which I had not seen at all, from among the com itself. 

This touched mo sensibly, for I foresaw that in a few days 
(hey would devour all my hopes; that I should be starved, and 
never be able to raise a crop at all ; and what to do I could not 
tell : however, I resolved not to lose my corn, if possible, though 
1 should watch it night and day. In the first place, I went among 
it, to see what damage was already done, and found they had 
spoiled a good deal of it; but that as it was yet too green for 
them, the loss was not so great, but that the remainder was likely 
to be a good crop, if it could be saved.. 

I staid by it to load my gun, and then coming away, I could 
easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees about me, as if 
they only waited till I was gone away ; and the event proved it 
to be so ; for as I walked ofiT, as if gone, I was no sooner out of 
thoir sight, than they dropped down, one by one, into the com 
again. I was so provoked, that I could not have patience to stay 
till moVe came on, knowing that every grain they ate now was, 
as it might be said, a peck loaf to me in the consequence; so 
coming up to the hedge, I fired again^ and killed three of them. 
This was what I wished for ; so I took them up, and served 
them as we serve notorious thieves in England, viz. hanged 
them in chains, for a terror to others. It is impossible to imagine 
that this should have such an effect as it had ; for the fowls not 
only never came to the corn, but, in short, they forsook all tha 
part of the island^ and I could never see a bird near the place as 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



EaBINSON CRUSOE. 97 

teiig ts my scarecrows hmg there. This I was ver^r glad ef, yon 
may be«iire; and about the latter end of December, which was 
oar second harvest of the year, I reaped my com. 

I was sadly put ta it for a scythe or sickle to cut it down : and 
aU I couM do was to make one as well as I could, out of one of 
dto broad swords, or cutlasseSf which I saved among the arms 
out of the ship. Howerer, as my first crop was but small, I had 
BO great difficulty to cut it down : in short, I reaped it my way, 
hr I cut nothing off but the ears, and carried it a¥ray in a great 
brisket which I had made, and so rubbed it out with my hands ; 
and at the -end of ail my harvesting, I found diat out of my half 
peck of seed I had near two bushels of rice« and above two 
6asbel» and a half of barley ; that is to say, by my guess, for I 
had no measure. 

However, this wts great encouragement to me ; and I foresaw 
that, in time, it would please €rod to supply me with bread ; and 
yet here I was perplexed again ; for I neither knew how to grind, 
or make meal of my corn, or indeed how to clean it and part it ; 
nor if made into meal, how to make bread of it ; and if how to 
make it, yet I knew not how to bake it : these things being added 
to my desire of having a good quantity for store, and to secure a 
constant supply, I resolved not to taste any of this crop, but to 
preserve it all for seed against the next season ; and, in the mean 
time, to employ all my study and hours of working to accomplish 
this great work of providing myself with com and bread. 

It might be truly said, that now I worked for my bread. It 
is a little wonderful, and what I believe few people have thought 
much upon, viz. the strange multitude of little things necessary 
in the providing, producing, curing, dressing, making, and finbhing 
this one article of bread. I, that was reduced to a mere state of 
nature, found this to my daily discouragement, and was made 
more sensible of it every hour, even after I had got the first hand- 
ful of seed-corn, which, as I have said, came up unexpectedly, 
and indeed to a surprise. 

First, I had no plough to turn up the earth; no spade or 
shovel to dig it : well, this I conquered, by making a wooden 
spade, as I observed before ; but this did my work in but a 
wooden manner ; and though it cost me a great many days to 
make it, yet, for want of iron, it not only wore out the sooner, 
but made my work the harder, and performed it much worse. 
However, this I bore with, and was content to work it out with 
patience, and bear with the badness of the performance. When 
the corn was sown, I had no harrow, but was forced to go over it 
myself, and drag a great heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch 

9 



Digitized b/VjOOQlC 



98 EOBINSON Glll»OS. 

Ut as it may be called, rather than rake or harrow it. Whom It 
was growini; and grown, I hare obfenred already how many 
things I wanted to fence it, to secure it, mow or re^ it, cnre 
and carry it home^ tiyresh, pact it from ^ ehafi^ and saive it * 
then I wanted a mill to grind it, aieves to dress it, yest and sak 
to make it into bread, and an otcq to bake U ; and yet all these 
things I did withont, as shall be observed; and the com was an 
inestimable comfort and advantage to me; all this, as I said, 
made every thing laborions and tedious to me, bm that there was 
no help Anr ; neither was any time so mnch loss to me, becanse, 
as I had divided it, a certain part of it was every day appointed 
to diese works ; and as I resolved to nse none of the com iwt 
bread till I had a greater quantity by me, I had th9 next m 
months to apply myself wholly, by labour and invention, to famisl 
myself with utensils proper for the performing all tbe o pefari em 
necessary for ajdung comfit for my nte. 



'Digitized by Google i 



SECTION XIII. 

BIft MAmiFACTUBB OF POTTB&T, AXn> CO^TUVANCS F0& BAKING BREAD. 

But now I was to prepare more land ; for I had seed enougl 
to sow above an acre of ground. Before I did this, I had a 
week's work at least to make me a spade ; which, when it was 
done, was but a sorry one indeed, and very heavy, and required 
double labour to work with it : however, I went through that, and 
sowed my seed in two large flat pieces of ground, as near my 
house as I could find them to my mind, and fenced them in with 
a good hedge ; the stakes of wnich were all cut off that wood 
which I had set before, and knew it would grow ; so that, in one 
year's time, I knew I should have a quick or living hedge, that 
would want but little repair. This work took me up full three 
months ; because a great part of the time was in the wet season, 
when I could not go abroad. Within doors, that is, when it 
rained, and I could not go out, I found employment on the fol- 
lowing occasions ; always observing, that while I was at work, I 
diverted myself with tsdking to my parrot, and teaching him to 
speak ; and I quickly learned him to know his own name, and at 
last to speak it out pretty loud, Poll ; which was the first word ( 
ever heard spoken in the island by any mouth but my own. This, 
therefore, was not my work, but an assistant to my work ; for 
now, as I said, I had a great employment upon my ha&ds, as 
follows : I had long studied, by some means or other, to make 
myself some earthen vessels, which indeed I wanted much, but 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



00 ADVENTURES OP 

knew not where to come at them : however, coDsidering the heat 
of the climate, I did not doubt but if I could find out any clay, I 
might botch up some such pot as might, being dried in the sun, 
be hard and strong enough to bear handling, and to hold any 
thing that was dry, and required to be kept so ; and as this was 
necess; [le thing I 

was U] d, and fit 

only to hem. 

It w at me, to 

tell he til; what 

odd, D m fell in, 

and ho o bear its 

own w jat of the 

sun, bi eces with 

only r€ and, in a 

word, how, after having laboured hard to find the clay, to dig it, 
to temper it, to bring it home, and work it, I could not make 
above two large earthen ugly things (I cannot call them jars) in 
about two months' labour. 

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard, 1 
lifted them very gently up, and set them down again in two great 
wicker baskets, which I had made on purpose for them, that they 
might not break; and as between the pot and the basket there 
was a little room to spare, I stuffed it full of the rice and barley 
straw ; and these two pots being to stand always dry, I thought 
would hold my dry com, and perhaps the meal, when the corn 
was bruised. 

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large pots, yet 
I made several smaller things with better success ; such as little 
round pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, and any thing my 
hand turned to ; and the heat of the sun baked them very hard. 

But all this would not answer my end, which was to get an 
earthen pot to hold liquids, and bear the fire, which none of these 
could do. It happened some time after, making a pretty large fire 
for cooking my meat, when I went to put it out after I had done 
with it, I found a broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels 
in the fire, burnt as hard as a stone, and red as a tile. I was 
agreeably surprised to see it ; and said to myself, that certainly 
they might be made to burn whole, if they would burn broken. 

This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to make it 
burn some pots. I had no notion of a kiln, such as the potters 
burn in, or of glazing them with lead, though I had some lead to 
do it with ; but I placed three large pipkins and two or three pots 
in a pile, one upon another, and placed my firewood all round it. 



Digitized by VjOOQ iC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 101 

fdth a great heap of embers under them. I plied tbe fire with 
tresh fuel round the outside, and upon the top, till I saw the pots 
in the inside red hot quite through, and observed that they did 
not crack at all : when I saw them clear red, I let them stand in 
that heat about five or six hours, till I found, one of them, though 
it did not crack, did melt or run ; for the sand which was mixed 
with the clay melted by the violence of the heat, and would have 
run into glass, if I had gone on ; so I slacked my fire gradually, 
till the pots began to abate of the red colour ; and watching them 
all night, that I might not let the fire abate too fast, in the morn- 
ing I had three very good, 1 will not say handsome, pipkins, and 
two other earthen pots, as hard burnt as could be desired ; and 
one of them perfectly glazed with the running of the sand. 

After this experiment I need not say that I wanted no sort o 
earthenware for my use : but I must needs say, as to the shapes 
of them, they were very indifferent, as any one may suppose, as 
1 had po way of making them but as the children make <Urt pies, 
or as a woman would make pies that never learned to rftise paste. 
No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal to mine, 
when I found I had made an earthen pot that would bear the 
fire ; and X had hardly patience to stay till they were cold, before 
I set ono on the fire again, with some water in it, to boil me 
some meat, which it did admirably well ; and with a piece of a kid 
I made some very good broth ; though I wanted oatmeal, and 
several other ingredients requisite to make it so good as I would 
have had it to be. , 

My next concern was to get a stone mortar to stamp or beat 
some corn in ; for as to the mill, there was no thought of arriving 
to that perfection of art with one pair of hands. To supply this 
want I was at a great loss ; for, of all trades in the world, 1 was 
as perfectly unqualified for a stonecutter a^ for any whatever ; 
neither had I any tools to go about it with. I spent many a 
day to find out a great stone big enough to cut hollow, and make 
fit for a mortar ; but could find none at all, except what was in 
the solid rock, and which I had no way to dig or cut out : nor, 
indeed, were the rocks in the island of sufficient hardness, as they 
were all of a sandy crumbling stone, which would neither bear 
the weight of a heavy pestle, nor would break the corn without 
filling it with sand : so, after a great deal of time lost in searching 
for a stone, I gave it oyer, and resolved to look out a great block 
of hard wood, which I found indeed much easier ; and getting 
one as big as I had strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed it 
on the outside with my axe and hatchet ; and then, with the help 
of fire, and infinite labour, made a hollow place in it, as th9 In 

9» 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



102 ADYXnTITllES OF 

dians in Brazil make tbeir canoes. After this, I made a great 
heavy pest)e, or beater, of the wood called iron-wood ; and this 
I prepared and laid by against I had my next crop of corn, when 
I proposed to myself to grind, or rather pound, my corn into 
meal, to make my bread. 

My next difficulty was to make a sieve, or search, to dress my 
meal, and to part it from the bran and the husk, without which 
I did not see it possible I could have any bread. This was a 
most difficult thing, even but to think on ; for I had nothing like 
the necessary thing to make it ; I mean fine thin canvass or stuff, 
to search the meal through. Here I was at a full stop for many 
months ; nor did I really know what to do *, linen I had none left, 
but what was mere rags ; I had goats* hair, but neither knew 
how to weave it nor spin it ; and had I known how, here were no 
tools to work it with : all the remedy I found for this was, at last 
recollecting I had, among the seamen*s clothes which were saved 
out of the ship, some neckcloths of calico or muslin ; with some 
pieces oT these I made three small sieves, proper enough for the 
work ; and thus I made shift for some years : how I did alter 
wards, I shall show in its place. 

The baking part was the next thing to be considered, and how 
I should make bread when I came to have com : for, first, I had 
no yest: as to that part, there was no supplying the want, so 1 
did not concern myself much about it ; but for an oven I was in- 
deed puzzled. At length I found out an expedient for that also, 
which was this ; I made some earthen vessels, very broad, but 
not deep, that b to say, about t^vo feet diameter, and not above 
nine inches deep : these I burned in the fire, as I had done the 
other, and laid them by ; and when I wanted to bake, I made a 
great fire upon my hearth, which I had paved with some square 
tiles, of my own making and burning also ; but I should not call 
them square. When the firewood was burned into embers, or 
live coals, I drew them forward upon the hearth, so as to cover it 
all over, and there let them lie till the hearth was very hot ; then 
sweeping away all the embers, I set down my loaf, or loaves, and 
covering them with the earthen pot, drew the embers all round 
the outside of the pot, to keep in and add to the heat ; and thus, 
as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my barley loaves, 
and became, in a little time, a good pastrycook into the bargain; 
for I made myself several cakes and puddings of the rice ; but 
made no pies, as I had nothing to put into them except the fiesh 
of fowls or goats. 

It need not be wondered at, if all these things took me up most 
part of the third year of my abode here ; for, it is to be observed. 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ftOBIVSON C&USOB. 103 

la ike iaterrak of diese things, I had m j new harvest and hus- 
bandry to manage : I reaped my com in its season, and carried 
it home as well as I could, and lidd it up in the ear, in my large 
baskets, tiU I had time to rub it out ; for I had uo^ floor to thresh 
it on, or instrument to thresh it with. 

And now, indeed, my stock of com increasing, I really wanted 
to build my bams bigger : I wanted a place to lay it up in ; for 
the increase of the com now yielded me so much, that I had of 
the barley about twenty bushels, and of rice as much or more, in- 
somuch that now I resolved to begin to use it freely ; for my bread 
had been quite gone a ^reat while : I resolved also to see what 
quantity would be sufficient for me a whole year, and to sow but 
once a year. 

Upon the fdiole, I found that the forty busheb of barley and 
rice were much more than I could consume in a year ; so I re- 
solved to sow just the same quantity every year that I sowed the 
last, in hopes that such a quantity would fully provide me with 
bread, i^. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION XIV. 

MEDITATES H18 ESCAPE FROM THE ISLAND.— BUILDS A CANOE.— FAILURE OP KM 
SCHEME.— BE8IGNATI0N TO HIS CONDITION.- MAKES HIMSELP A NEW DBE3S. 

All the while these things were doing, yon may be sure my 
thoughts ran many times upon the prospect of land which I had 
seen from the other side of the island ; and I was not without 
some secret wishes that I was on shore there ; fancying, that see- 
ing the main land, and an inhabited country, I might find some way 
or other to convey myself farther, and perhaps at last find some 
means of escape. 

But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers of such 
a condition, and that I might fall into the hands of savages, and 
perhaps such as I might have reason to think far worse than the 
lions and tigers of Africa ; that if I once came in their power, I 
should run a hazard of more than a thousand to one of being 
killed, and perhaps of being eaten; for I had heard that the 
people of the Caribbean coast were cannibals, or man-eaters ; 
and I knew, by the latitude, that I could not be far off from thai 
shore. Then supposing they were not cannibals, yet that they 
might kill me, as they had many Europeans who had fallen into 
their hands, even when they have been ten or twenty together ; 
much more I, who was but one, and could make little or no defence ; 
all these things, I say, which I ought to have considered well of, 
and did cast up in my thoughts afterwards, took up none of my 
apprehensions at first ; yet my head ran mightily upon the thoughl 
itf gettiuji over to the shore. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBIirsON CRUSOE. 105 

Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat with the 
shoakler-of-matton sail, with which I sailed above a thousand 
miles OB the coast of Africa ; bat this was in vain : then I thought 
I would go and look at our «hlp's boat, which, as I have said, 
was blown up upon the shore a great way, in the storm, when we 
were first cast away. She lay nearly where she did at first, but 
not quite; having turned, by the force of the waves and the 
winds, almost bottom upward, against a high ridge of beachy 
rough sand ; but no water about her, as before. If I had had 
hands to have refitted her, and to have launched tier into the 
water, the boat would have done very well, and I might have 
gone back into the Brazils with her easily enough ; but I might 
have foreseen, that I could no more turn her and set her upright 
upon her bottom, than I could remove the island ; however, I 
went to the woods, and cut levers and rollers, and brought them 
to the boat^ resolving to try what I could do i suggesting to my- 
self, that if I could but turn her down, and repair the damage 
she had received, she would be a very good boat, and I might 
venture to sea in her. 

I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fhiitless toil, and 
spent, I think, three or four weeks about it: at last, finding it 
impossible to heave her up with my little strength, I fell to 
digging away the sand, to undermine her, and so as to make her 
fall down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide her right in 
the fail. But when I had done this, I was unable to stir her up 
agaih^ or to get under her* much less to move her forward to- 
wards the water; so I was forced to give it over : and yet, though 
I gave over the hopes of the boat, my desire to venture over the 
main increased, rather than diminished, as the means for it 
seenMd impossible. 

At length, I began to think whetiier it was not possible to make 
myself a canoe, or periagua, such as the natives of ^ose climates 
make, even without tools, or, as I might say, without hands, of 
the trunk of a great tree. This I not only thought possible, but 
easy, and pleased myself extremely with the idea of making it, 
aud with ray having much more convenience far it than any of the 
Negroes and Indians; but not at all considering the particular in- 
(onventences which 1 lay under more than the Indians did, viz. 
'he want of hands to move it into the water when it was made, 
a difficulty much harder for me to surmount than all the conse- 
quences of want of tools could be to them : for what could it 
avail me, if, after I had chosen my tree, and with much trouble 
cut it down, and might be able with my tools to hew and dub the 

atside into the proper shape of a boat, and bum or ""cut out the 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



106 AOVlClfTUMn OF 

inside to make it hollow, so as to make a boat of it ; lA after ali 
this, I must leave it just where I fomid it, and was not able to 
launch it into the water ? 

One would imagine, if I had had the least reflection upon my 
mind of my circumstances while I was making this boat, I should 
have immectiately thought how I was to get it into the sea ; but 
my thoughts were so intent upon my voyage in it, that I never 
once considered how I should get it off ^e land; and it was 
really, in its own nature, more easy for me to guide it over forty- 
five miles of sea, than the forty-five fathoms of land, where it lay 
to set it afloat in the water. 

I went to work upoQ this boat the most like a fool that evei 
man did, who had any of his senses awaka. I pleased n^self 
with the design, without determining whether I was able to un- 
dertake it; not but that the difiQyculty of launching my boat came 
often into my head; but I put a stop to my own inquh^ into it, 
by this foolish answer : I o( me first make it ; I warrant I ^ill find 
some way or other to get along when it is done'. 

This was a most preposterous method ; but ^m eagerness of 
my fancy prevailed, and to woik I went. 1 felled a cedar tree, 
and I question much whether Solomon ever had such a one for 
ihe building of the Temple at Jerusalem ; it was B^ve feet ten 
mches diameter at the lower part next the stump, and four feet 
eleven inches diameter at the, end of twenty-two foot, wh^e k 
lessened, and then parted into branches. It was Jiot without 
infinite labour that I felled this tree ; I was twenty days hacking 
and hewing at the bottom, and fourteen more getting the branehes 
and limbs, and the vast spreading head of it, eut off: after this^ 
it cost me a month to shape it and dub it to a proportion, and to 
something like the bottom of a boat, that it xsugH swim upright 
as it ought to do. It cost me near three months move to clear the 
inside, and work it out so as to make an exact boat of it i this I 
did, indeed, without ^re^ by mere mallet and chisel, and by the 
dint of hard labour, till I had brought it to be a very handsome 
periagua, and big enough to have carried six-and-twenty men, 
and consequently big enough to have carried me and all my eai^o. 

When I had gone through this work, I was ea^tremely delighted 
with it. The boat was. really much bigger than ever I saw a 
canoe or a periagua, that was made of one tree, in my Hfo 
Many a weary stroke it had cost, you may be sure ; and there 
remained nothing but to get it into the water; which, had I ac- 
complished, I make no question but I should have begun the 
maddest voyage, and the most unlikely to be performed, that 
ever was undertaken. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROAiisson c&usoK. 107 

But all my deTices to get it into the water failed me ; though 
(hey cost me inexpresaihle labour too. It lay about one hundred 
yards from the water, and not more ; but the first inconvenience 
was, it was up hill towards the creek. Well, to take away thb 
discouragement, I resolved to dig into the surface of the earth, 
and 80 make a declivity : this I began, and it cost me a prodi- 
gious deal of pains ; (but who grudge pains that have their deliver- 
ance in view ?) when this was worked through, and this difficulty 
managed, it was still much the same, for I could no more stir 
the canoe than I could the other boat. Then I measured the 
distance of ground, and resolved to cut a dock or canal, to 
bring the water up to the canoe, seeing I could not bring the 
canoe down to the water. Well, I began this work ; and when I 
began to enter upon it, and calculate how deep it was to be dug, 
how broad, how the stuff was to be thrown out, I found by the 
number of hands I had, having none but my own, that it must 
have been ten or twelve years before I could have gone through 
with it ; for the shore lay so high, that at the upper end it must 
have been at least twenty feet deep ; this attempt, though with 
great reluctancy, I was at length obliged to give over also. 

This grieved me heartily ; and now I saw, though too late, the 
folly of beginning a work before we count the cost, and befo* e 
wo judge rightly of our own strength to go through with it. 

In the middle of this work, I finished my fourth year in this 
place,, and kept my anniversary with the same devotion, and with 
as much comfort as before ; for, by a constant study and serious 
appliciition to the word of God, and by the assistance of his 
grace, I gained a different knowledge from what I had before ; I 
entertained different notions of things ; I looked now upon the 
world as a thing remote, which I had nothing to do with, no ex- 
pectation from, and, indeed, no desires about : in a word, I had 
nothing to do with it, nor was ever likely to have ; I thought it 
looked, as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter, viz. as a place 
I had lived in, but was come out of it ; and well might I say, as 
father Abraham to Dives, «* Between me and thee is a great 
gulf fixed." 

In the first place, I was here removed from all the wickedness 
of the world; I had neither the lust of the flesh, the lust of the 
eye, nor the pride of life. I had nothing to covet, for I had all 
that I was now capable of enjoying : I was lord of the whole 
manor ; or, if I pleased, I might call myself king or emperor over 
the whole countiy which I had posssession of ; there were no 
rivals ; I had no competitor, none to dispute sovereignty or com- 
mand 'with me : I might have raised ship-loadings of com, but I 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



lOH AovmTinuBs of 

had DO nse lor it ; so I let as little grow as I thought enough for 
my occasion. I had tortoise or turtle enough, but now and then 
one was as much as I could put to any use : I had timber enough 
to have built a fleet of ships ; and I had grapes enough to have 
made wine, or to have cured into raisins, to have loaded that fleet 
when it had been built. 

But all I could make use of was all that was valuable : 1 hn\\ 
enough to eat and nupply my wants, and what was the rest to 
me ? II I killed more flesh than I could eat, the dog must eat it, 
or vermin ; if I sowed more com than I could eat, it must be 
spoiled; the trees that I cut down were lying to rot on the 
ground ; I could make no more use of them than for Aiel, and 
that I had no other occasion for but to dress my food. 

In a word, the nature and experience of things dictated to me, 
upon just reflection, that all the good things of this world are of 
no farther good to us than for our use ; and that whatever wc 
may heap up to give others, we enjoy only as much as we cat 
use, and no more. The most covetous griping miser in the worl 
would have been cured of the vice of covetousness, if he had bee 
in my case ; for I possessed infinitely more than I knew what to 
do with. I bad no room for desire, except it was for things which 
I had not, and they were comparatively but trifles, though indeed 
of great use to me. I had, as I hinted before, a parcel of money, 
as well gold as silver, about thirty-six pounds sterling. Alas! 
there the nasty, sorry, useless stuff lay : I had no manner of busi- 
ness for it ; and I often thought within myself, that I would have 
given a handful of it for a gross of tobacco pipes, or for a hand- 
mill to grind my com ; nay, I would have given it all for six- 
penny-worth of turnip and carrot seed from England, or for a 
handful of peas and beans, and a bottle of ink. As it was, I had 
not the least advantage by it, or benefit from it ; but there it lay 
in a drawer, and grew mouldy with the damp of the cave in the 
wet seasons ; and if I had had the drawer full of diamonds, it had 
been the same case, — they had been no manner of value to me 
because of no use. 

I had now brought my state of life to be much more comfort 
able in itself than it was at first, and much easier to my mind, as 
well as to my body. I frequently sat down to meat with thank- 
fulness, and admired the hand of God's providence, which had 
thus spread my table in the wilderness : I leamed to look more 
upon the bright side of my condition, and less upon the dark side, 
and to consider what I enjoyed, rather than what I wanted : and 
this gave me sometimes such secret comforts, that I cannot ex- 
press them ; and which I take notio of here, to put those discon- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROriNSON €%USOE. 109 

ONited people in mind of it, who eannot ei^y cemfonably wheit 
Crod baa giyen them, becimfe they see and covet something that 
he has Bot given them. All our discontents about what we want, 
appeared to me to ^ring from the want of thankfulness for what 
we have. 

Another reflection was of great use to me, and doubtless would 
be so to ai^ one that should fail into such distress as mine was ; 
and this was, to compare my present condition with what I at 
first expected it would be; nay, with what it would certainly 
have been, if the good providence of €rod had not wonderfully 
ordered the ship to be cast up near to the shore, where I not onlj 
eouki come at her, bat could bring what I got ont of her to the 
shore, for my relief and comfort ; withent which, I had wanted 
for tools to work, weapons for defence, and gunpowder and shot 
ibr getting my food. 

I spent whole hours, I may say*whole days, in representing to 
myself, in the meet lively colours, how I must have acted if I 
hvtd get nothing out of the ship« I eould not have so much as got 
any food, esLcept fish and turtles ; and that, as it was long before I 
foand any of them, i must have perished ; that I should have 
lived, if I had not perished, like a mere savage ; that if I had 
killed a goat or a fowl, by any eontrivaDce, I had no way to flay 
or open it, or part the flesh from the skin and the bowels, or to 
cut it up ; but must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it with my 
claws, like a beast. 

These reflediens made me very sensible of the goodness of 
Providenee to me, and very thaid^l for my present condition, 
with all its hardships and misfortunes ; and this part abo I can- 
not but recommend to the reflection of those who are apt, in their 
misery, to say. Is any afflietion like mine? Let them consider 
how mud» worse the eases of some people are, and their case 
might hflive been, if Providenee had thought fit* 

I had another reflection, whkh assisted me also to comfort my 
mind with hopes ; and this was, comparing my present condition 
with what I had deserved, and had therefore reason to expect 
from the h»id of Providence. I had lived a dreadful life, per- 
fectly destitute of the knowledge and fear of God. I had been 
well instrocted by my father and mother; neither had they been 
wanting to met in their endeavonrs to infuse an early religious 
awe ef God into my mind, a sense of my duty,, and what the 
nature and end of my being required of me. But, alas ! falling 
early into the seafaring life, which, of all lives, is the most des- 
titute of the fear of God, though his terrors are always befor« 
them; I say, falling early into the seafaring life, and into seafar 

10 



Digitized 



by Google 



110 AB vx2r TURKS or 

iag company, all that Itttlo sonae of reMgion whicli I had eater- 
tained was lauglMd out of me by ray messmates ; by a hardened 
despising of dangers, and the Tiews of death, which grew babttiml 
to me ; by my long absence £rom all manner of opportnnities to 
converse with any thing but what was like myself, or to hear any 
thing that was good, or tending towards it. 

So void was I of every thing that was good, or of the least 
sense of what I was, or was to be, that in the greatest deliver- 
ances 1 enjoyed (such as my escape from Sallee, jony being taken 
up by the Portuguese master of a ship, my being planted so weH 
in the Braauls, my receiving the cargo from Englai^ and the 
like), I never had once the words. Thank God, so much as on 
my mind, or in my mouth ; nor in the greatest distress had I so 
much as a thought to pray to him, or so much as to say. Lord, 
have mercy upon me ! no, nor to mention the name of God, unless 
it was to^ swear by, and blaspheme it. 

I had terrible reflections upon my mind for osany months, as I 
have already observed, on account of my wicked and hardened 
life past; md when I looked about me, and considered what par- 
ticular providences had attended me since my coming into this 
l^ace, and how God had dealt bountifully with me,-*had not 
only punished me less than my iniquity had deserved, but had j^o 
plentifully provided for me,— tins gave me great hopes that my 
repentance was accepted, and that God had vet naercies in store 
for me. 

Wi& diese reflections, I wodced my mind up, not only to a 
resignation to the will of God in the present disposition of my ctr- 
cumstanees, but even to a sincere thankfulness for my condition : 
and that I, who was yet a living man, ought not to comptaia. 
seeing I had not the due punishment of my sins ; that I enjoyevi 
so many meareies which I had no reason to have expected in that 
place, that I ought never more to repine at my condition, but to 
rejoice, and to give daily thanks for that daily bread, which 
nothing -but a crowd of wonders could have brought; that I 
ought to consider I had been fed by a nairacle, even as great as 
that of feeding Ely ah by ravens ; nay, by along series of ixiira 
cles : and that I could hardly hare named a place in the unin 
habitable part of the world where I could have been cast more to 
my advantage ; a place where, as I had no society, which was 
my affliction on one hand, so 1 found no ravenous beasts, no 
furious wolves or tigers, to threaten my life ; no venomous or 
poisonous creatures, which I might feed on to my hurt; no 
savages, to murder and devour me. In a word, as ray life was a 
life of sorrow one way^ so it was a life of mercy ano^er ; and 1 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ftOBIirSOIf CEUROB. Ill 

wanted nothing to make it a Hfe of comfoH, bat to make myaelf 
sensible of God's goodness to me, and care over me in this con« 
dition; and after I did make a just improvement of these things, 
I went away, and was no more sad. 

I had now been here so long, that many diings which I brought 
OQ shore for my help were either quite gone, or very much wasted, 
and near spent. 

My ink, as I observed, had been gone for some time, all but a 
very little, which I eked out with water, a little and a little, till 
it was so pale, it scarce left any appearance of black upon the 
paper. As long as it lasted, I made use of it to minute down the 
days of the month on which any r^arkable thing happened to 
me : and, first, by casting up times past, I remember that there 
was a strange concurrence of days in the various providences 
which befell me, and which, if I had been superstitiously inclined 
to observe days so fatal or unfortunate, I might have had reason 
to have look^ upon with a great deal of curiosity. 

First, I had observed, that the same day that I broke away 
from my father and my friends, and ran away to Hull, in order to 
go to sea, the same day afterwards I was taken by the Sallee 
man-of-war, and made a slave ; the same day of the year that J 
escaped out of the Avreck of the ship in Yarmouth Roads, that 
pame day a year afterwards I made my escape from Sallee in the 
boat ; and the same day of the year I was born on, viz. the 30th 
of September, that same day J had my life so miraculously saved 
twenty-six years after, when I was cast on shore in this island ; so 
that my wicked life and my solitary life began both on one day. 

The next thing to my ink being wasted, was that of my bread, 
I mean the bisiiuit which I brought out of the ship : this I had 
husbanded to the last degree, allowing myself but one cake ot 
bread a day for above a year ; and yet I was quite without bread 
for near a 3'ear before I got any corn of my own ; and great reason 
I had to be thankful that I had any at all, the getting it being, as 
has been already observed, next to miraculous. 

My clothes, too, began to decay mightily : as to linen, I had 
none for a great while, except some checkered shirts which ( 
found in the chests of the other seamen, and which I carefuHy 
preserved, because many times I could bear no clothes on but a 
shirt ; and it was a very great help to me that I had, among all 
the men's clothes of the ship, almost three dozen of shirts. There 
were also, indeed, several thick watchcoats of the seamen's 
. which were left, but they were too hot to wear : and though it 
is true that the weather was so violently hot that there was no 
need of clothes, yet I could not sro quite naked, no, though I had 



Digitized 



by Google 



112 ADVEI^TURES OF 

been inclined to it, which I was not, nor could I abide thi 
thought of it, though I wa« all alone. The reason why 1 
could not go quite naked was, I could not bear the heat of the 
sun so well when quite naked as with some clothes on ; nay, the 
very heat frequently blistered my skin : whereas, with a shirt on, 
the air itself made some motion, and, whistling under the shirt, 
was twofold cooler than without it. No more could I ever bring 
myself to go out in the heat of the sun wiAout a cap or hat ; the 
heat of the sun beating with such violence as it does in that place, 
would give me the headache presently, by darting so directly 
upon my head, without a c^p or hat on, so that I could not bear 
it ; whereas, if I put on my hat, it would presently go away. 

Upon these views, I began to consider about putting the few 
rags I had, which I called clothes, into some order : I had worn 
out all the waistcoats I had, and my business was now to try if I 
could not make jackets out of the great watchcoats that I had by 
me, and with such other materials as I had ; so I set to work a 
tailoring, or rather, indeed, a botching, for I made most piteous 
work of it. However, I made shift to make two or three new 
waistcoats, which I hoped would serve me a great while : as for 
breeches or drawers, I made but a very sorry shift indeed, till 
afterwards. 

I have mentioned, that I saved the skins of all the creatures 
that I killed, I mean four-footed ones ; and I had hung them up, 
stretched out with sticks, in the sun, by which means some of them 
were so dry and hard that they were fit for little, but others 1 
found very useful. The first thing 1 made of these was a great 
cap for my head, with the hair on the outside, to shoot off the 
rain ; and this I performed so well, that after this I made me a 
suit of clothes wholly of the skins, that is to say, a waistcoat, and 
breeches, open at the knees, and both loose ; for they were rather 
wanting to keep me cool than warm. I must not omit to acknow- 
ledge that they were Avretchedly made ; for if I was a bad c^f- 
penter, I was a worse tailor. However, they were such as 1 
made a very good shift with ; 'and when I was abroad, if it hap- 
pened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and cap being uppermost. 
I was kept very dry. 

After this, I spent a great deal of time and pains to make mo 
an umbrella ; I was indeed in great want of one, and had a great 
miiid to make me one; I had seen them made in the Brazils, 
where they were very useful in the great heats which are there ; 
and I felt the heats every jot as great here, and greater tooj 
t)elng nearer the equinox: besides, as I was obliged to be much 
abi'oad, it was a most useful thinj^ to me, as wellfor the rains aa 



Digitized by VjOOQ.IC 



KOBf^SOl* CRUSOE. 119 

the beats. I took a worid of pains at it, and was a great while 
before I could make any thing likely to hold ; nay, after 1 thought 
I had hit the way, I spoiled two or three before I made one to my 
mind ; but at last I made one that answered indifferently w^eil , 
the main difficulty I found was to mal^e it to let down : I could 
make it spread, but if it did not let down too, and draw in, it 
was not portable for me any way but just over my head, which 
would not do. However, at last, as I said, I made one to answer, 
and covered it with skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast off the 
rain like a pent-house, and kept off the sun jso effectnally, that 1 
could walk out in the hottest of the weather with greater advantage 
than I could before in the coolest ; and when I had no need of it 
could close it, and carry it under my arm. 

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely com- 
posed by resigning to the will of God, and dirowing myself wholly 
upon the dbposal of his providence. This made my life better 
than sociable ; for when J began to regret the want of conver- 
sation, I would ask myself, whether thus conversing mutually 
with my own thoughts, and, as I hope I may say, with even God 
himself by ejaculations, was not better than the utmost enjoy- 
ment of human society in the world ? 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION XV. 

HB MAKES A SMALLER CANOE, IN WHICH HE ATTEMPTS TO CRUISE ROVKD TAB 
ISLAND.—HIS PBBIL0U8 SITUATION AT SEA.— HE BBTUENS HOME. 

I CANNOT say that after thi«» for fire years, any extraordiaary 
thing happened to me, but I lived on in the same course, in the 
same posture and place, just as before ; the chief things I was 
employed in, besides my yearly labour of planting my barley and 
rice, and curing my raisins, of both which I always kept up just 
enough to have sufficient stock of one year's provision before- 
hand ; I say, besides this yearly labour, and my daily pursuit of 
going out with my gun, I had one labour, to make me a canoe, 
which at last I finished : so that by digging a canal to it of six feet 
wide, and four feet deep, I brought it into the creek, almost half 
a mile. As for the first, which was so vastly big, as I made it 
without considering beforehand, as I ought to do, how I should be 
able to launch it, so, never being able to bring it into the water, 
or bring the water to it, I was obliged to let it lie where it was, as 
a memorandum to teach me to be wiser the next time : indeed, 
the next time, though I could not get a tree proper for it, and was 
in a place where I could not get the water to it at any less dis- 
tance than, as I have said, near half a mile, yet as I saw it was 
practicable at last, I never gave it over : and though I v»'as near 
two yeart> about it, yet I never grudged m^ labour, in hopes of 
having a boat to go off to sea at lasL 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ftOBIIfSON CRUSOE. 115 

However, though my little periagna was finished, yet the size 
of it was not at all ansiverahle to the design which I had in view 
when I made the first ; I mean, of venturing over to the terra 
frma, where it was ahove forty miles broad; accordingly, the 
smallness of my boat assisted to put an end to that design, and 
now I thought no more of it. As I had a boat, my next design 
was to make a cruise round the island ; for as I had been on the 
other side in one place, crossing, as I have already described it, 
over the land, so the discoveries I made in that little journey made 
me very eager to see other parts of the coast ; and now I had a 
boat, I thought of nothing but sailing round the island. 

For this purpose, that I might do every thing with discretion 
and consideration, I fitted up a little mast in my boat, and made 
a sail to.it out of some of the pieces of the ship's saihs which lay in 
store, and of which I had a great stock by me. Having fitted my 
mast and sail, and tried the boat, I found she would sail very well: 
then I made little lockers, Or boxes, at each end of my boat, to put 
provisions, necessaries, ammunition, &c. into, to be kept dry, 
either from rain or the spray of the sea; and a little long hollow 
place I cut in the inside of the boat, where I could lay my gun, 
making a flap to hang down over it, to keep it dry. . 

I fixed my umbrella also In a step at the stem, like a mast, to 
stand over my head, and keep the heat of the sun off me, like an 
awning; and thus I every now and then took a littte voyage upon 
the sea, but never went far out, nor far from the little creek. At 
last, being eager to view the circumference of my little kingdom, 
I resolved upon my cruise ; and accordingly, I victualled my ship 
for the voyage, putting In two dozen of loaves (cakes I should 
rather call them) of barley bread, an earthen pot full of parched 
rice (a food I ate a great deal of), a little bottle of rum, half a 
goat, and powder and shot for killing more, and two large watch- 
coats of those which, as I mentioned before, I had saved out of 
the seamen's chests ; these I took, one to lie upon, and the other 
to cover me in the night. 

It was the sixth of November, in the sixth year of my reign, or 
my captivity, which you please, that I set out on this voyage, and 
I found it much longer than 1 expected ; for though the island 
itself was not very large, yet when I came to the east side of it, 
I found a great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues into the 
sea, some above water, some under it ; and beyond that a shoal 
of sand, lying dry half a league more, so that I was obliged to go 
a great way out to sea to double the point. 

When first I discovered them, I was going to give over my 
enterprbe, and come back again, not knowinfr how far it might 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



116 ABV£?STURE8 OF. 

oblige me to go oat to sea, aud, above ail, doubting how I should 
back again ; so I came to an anchor ; for I had made me a 
kind of an anchor with a piece of a broken grappling, which I 
got out of the ship. 

Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on shore, 
climbing up on a hill, which seemed to overlook that point, where 
I saw the full extent of it, and resoh ed to venture. 

In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, I perceived a 
strong, and indeed a most furious current, which ran to the east, 
and even came close to the point; and I took the more notice ol 
it, because I saw there might be some danger, that when I came 
into it, 1 might be carried out to sea by the strength of it, and not 
be able to make the island again : and, indeed, had I not got first 
upon this hill, I believe it would have been ^ ; for there was the 
same current on the other side the island, only that it set off at a 
farther distance, and I saw there was a strong eddy under the 
shore ; so I had nothing to do but to get out of the first current, 
and I should presently be in an eddy. 

I lay here, however, two days, because the wind blowing pretty 
fresh at E* S. E. an(f that being just contrary to the said cur- 
rent, made a great breach of the sea upon the point ; so that it 
was not safe for me to keep too close to the shore, for the breach, 
nor to go too far off, because of the stream. 

The third day, in the morning, the wind having abated over 
night, the sea was calm, and I ventured : but I am a warning- 
piece again to all rash and ignorant pilots ; for no sooner was I 
come to the point, when I was not even my boat's length from 
the shore, but I found myself in a great depth of water, and a 
current like the sluice of a mill ; it earned my boat along with it 
with such violence, that all I could do could not keep her so much 
as on the ed^e of it ; but I found it hurried me farther and farther 
out from the eddy, which was on my left hand. There was no 
wind stirring to help me, and all I could do with my paddles 
signified nothing : and now I began to give myself over for lost ; 
for as the current was on both sides of the island, 1 knew in a 
few leagues' distance they must join again, and then I was Irre 
coverably gone ; nor did I see any possibility of avoiding it; so 
that I had no prospect before me but of perishing, not by the »ea, 
for that was calm enough, but of starving for hunger. I had in- 
deed found a tortoise on the shore, as big almost as I could lift, 
and had tossed it into the boat; and I had a great jar of fresh 
water, that is to say, one of my earthen pots ; but what was all 
this to being driven into the vast ocean, where, to be sure, there was 
no shore, no naain land or island, for a thousand leagues at least'' 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



mOBINSOX CRUSOE. 117 

And now I saw how easy it Avas for the providence of God to 
make even the most miserable condition* of mankind worse. Now 
I looked back upon my desolate solitary island, as the most 
pleasant place in the world; and all the happiness my heart 
could wish for was to be but there again. I stretched out my 
hands to it, with eager wishes : O happy desert ! said I, I shall 
never see thee more. O miserable creature ! whither am I going ! 
Then I reproached myself with my unthankful temper, and how 
I had repined at Iby solitary condition ; and now what would I 
give to be on shore there again ! Thus we never see the true 
state of our condition till it is illustrated to us by its contraries, 
uor know how to value what we enjoy, but by the want of it. It 
b scarce possible to imagine the consternation I was now in, 
being driven from my beloved island (for so it appeared to me 
now to be) into the wide ocean, almost two leagues, and in the 
utmost despair of ever recovering it again. However, I worked 
hard, till indeed my strength was almost exhausted, and kept my 
boat as much to the northward, that is, towards the side of the 
current which the eddy lay on, as possibly I could; when 
about noon, as the sun passed the meridian, I thought I felt a 
little breeze of wind in my face, springing up from S. S. E. 
This cheered my heart a little, and especially when, in about half 
an hour more, it blew a pretty gentle gale. By this time I was 
got at a frightful distance from the island, and had the least cloudy 
or hazy weather intervened, I had been undone another way too ; 
for I had no compass on board, and should never have known 
how to have steered towards the island, if I had but once lost 
sight of it; but the weather continuing clear, I applied myself to 
get up my mast again, and spread my sail, standing away to the 
north as much as possible, to get out of the current. 

Just as I had set my mast and sail, and thb boat began to stretch 
away, I saw even by the clearness of the water some alteration 
of the current was near ; for where the current was so strong, the 
water was foul ; but perceiving the water clear, I found the cur- 
rent abate ; and presently I found to the east, at about half a 
mile, a breach of the sea upon some rocks ; these rocks I found 
caused the current to part again, and as the main stress of it ran 
away more southerly, leaving the rocks to the north-east, so the 
other returned by the repulse of the rocks, and made a strong 
eddy, which ran back again to the north-west, with a very sharp 
stream. 

They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to them 
upon the ladder,- or to be rescued from thieves just going to mur 
dor them, or who have been in such-like extremities, may guess 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



118 APVKWTORjus or 

what my presei^ snrpflM of joy was^ and how gladly I put my 
boat iato the stream of this eddy ; and the wiod also freshening, 
how gladly I spread my sail to it, running cheerfully before the 
wind, and with a strong tide or eddy under foot. 

This eddy carried me about a league in my way back again, 
directly towards the island, but about two leagues more to the 
northward than the current which carried me away at first : so 
that when I came near the island, I found myself open to the 
northern shore of it, that is to say, the other^end of the island, 
opposite to that which I went out from. 

When I had made something more than a league of way by the 
help of this current, or eddy, I found it was spent, and served me no 
farther* However, I found that bein|; between two great currents, 
viz. that on the south side, w^hich had hurried me away, and that 
on the north, which lay about a league on the ot^er side ; I say, 
between these two, in the wake of the island, I found the water 
at least still, and running no way ; and having still a breeze of 
wind fair for me, I kept on steering directly for the island, though 
not making such firesh way as I did before. 

About four o'clock in the evening, being then within a league 
of the island, I found the point of the rocks which occasioned this 
disaster, stretching out, as is described before, to the southward, 
and casting off the current more southerly, had, of course, made 
another eddy to the north ; and this I found very strong, but not 
directly setting the way my course lay, which was due west, but 
almost full north. However, having a fresh gale, I stretched 
across this eddy, slanting north-west: and, in about an hotu*, 
came within about a mile of the shore* where, it being smoota 
water, I soon got to land. 

When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God thanks 
for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside all thoughts of my de- 
liverance by my boat; and refreshing myself with such things as 
I had, I brought my boat dose to the shore, in a little cove that I 
had spied under some trees, and laid me down to (rieep, being 
quite spent with the labour and fatigue of the voyage. 

I was now at a great loss which way to get home with mv 
boat : I had run so much hazard, and knew too much of the case, 
to think of attempting it by the way I went out ; and what migk: 
be at the other side (I mean the west side) I knew not, nor had .! 
any mind to run any more ventures ; so I only resolved in th^ 
morning to make my way westward along the shore, and to see i^ 
there was no creek where I might lay up my frigate in safety, 9^ 
as to have her again, if I wanted her. In abo\it three miles, n 
thereabouts, qoasting the shore, I came to a very good inlet o* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



BOBiirsoir cmiMWX. 



H9 



bsf , a^^st a mile OTer, which narrowed till it came to a very ikth; 
riTiilet or Urook, where I ibimd a very conyenietit harbour for my 
boat, wad where she lay aa if she had been in a little dock made 
^ pittpofle for her. Here I put in, and haTing stowed my boat 
very safe, I went on shore, to look about moi and see where 
I was. 

I VHm fbnad I had bat a little passed by the place wb«re I had 
been before, when I traToUed on foot to that shore ; so taking 
nothing ont of my boat but my gun and umbrella, for it wts 
exceeding hot, I began my march^ The way was comfortable 
enough after such a iFoyage as I had been upon, and I reached my 
old bow^ in the evening, where I found every thing standing as 
I left it ; for I always kept it in.^>od order, being, as I said before, 
my eomitry house* 

I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade, to rest my 
limbs, for I was tcj^ weary, and fell asleep : but judge you, if 
you can, that read my st<nry, what a surprisal mwst be in, when I 
was awaked out of my sleep by a voice, caUing m» by my name 
several times, Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe ; poor Robin Crusoe ! 
Where are you, Kobin Ciaisoe^ Where ar# you? Where have 
you been? 

I was so dead asleep at first, being fotigued with rowing, or 
paddling, as it «i called, the first part of the day, and with walk- 
ing the latter part, that I did not wake tboroi^hly ; but dozing 
between sleeping and waking, thought I dreamed that somebody 
spoke to me ; but as the voice continued to repeat Robin Crusoe 
Hobin Crusoe, at last I began to wake more perfectly, and was 
at first dreadfully frightened, and started up m the utmost con- 
sternation; but no sooner were my eyes open, but Ijmiw my Poll 
sitting on the top of tl^ hedge ; and immediately knew it was he 
th^ spoke to me ; for just in such bemoaning language I had 
jKied to talk to him, and teach him ; and he had learned it so per- 
fi^ctly, that he would sit upon my finger, and lay his bill close to 
my face, and cry. Poor Robin Crusoe I Where are you ? Where 
have you been? How came you here? and such things as I had 
timght him. 

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and that indeed 
It could be nobody else, it was a good while before I could com- 
pose myself. First, I was amazed how the creature got thither, 
and then, how he should just keep about the place, and no where 
else : but as I was well satisfied it could be nobody but honest 
Poll, I got over it ; and holdiug out my hand, and calling him by 
ais name. Poll, the sociable creature came to me, and sat upon 
my thumb, as he used to do, and continued tsmdng to mcf Poor 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



120^ ADirxnTUiOss or 

Rolfin .Crmoe ! and how did I come here? and where had I ho<*fi ? 
joflt as if he had been overjoyed to see me again: and so I cur- 
ried him home along with me; 

I now had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and had 
en&tfgh to do ibr many days, to sit still, and reflect npon the 
danger I had been in. I would have been very glad to have had 
niy boat agahi on my side of the island ; but I knew not how it 
was practicable to get it about. As to the east side of the island, 
which I had gone round, I knew well enough there was no ven- 
turing that way ; my very heart would shrink, and my very blood 
ran chili, but to think of it; a^d as to the other side oif the island, 
I did not know how it might be there ; but supposing the current 
ran wi^ the same force against the shore at the east as it passed 
by it on the other, I might run the same risk of being driven 
down the stream, and carried by the island, as 1 had been befbre ' 
of being carried away (Vom it ; so, whh these thoughts, I con- 
tented myself to be without any boat, though it had been the pro- 
ductof so many months' labour to make it| and of eo many more 
to get it mto the sea. 

In this government of kny temper I remained near a year, lived 
a very sedate, retired life, as you may well suppose ; and mj- 
thoughts b^ng very much composed, as to my condition, and 
fully comforted in resigning myself to the dispositions of t^ro- 
videace, I thought I lived really very happily in all things, except 
that of society. 

I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic exercises 
which my necessities put me upon applying myself to; and 1 
believe I could, upon occasibn, have made a very good carpenter, 
especially considering how fdw tools I had. 

Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my 
earthenware, and contrived well enough to make them with a 
wheel, which I found infinitely easier and better; because I made 
things round and shapeable, which belbre were filthy things in- 
deed to look on. But I think I was never more vain of my own 
performance, or more Joyful for any thing I found out, than for 
my being able to make a tobacco-pipe ; and though it w^ a very 
ugly clumsy thing when It was done, and only burned red, like 
other earthenware, yet as it was hard and firm, and would draw the 
amoke, I was exceedingly comforted with it, for I had been 
always nsed to ^moke : and there were pipes in the ship, but I 
forgot them at first, not thinking that there was tobacco in the 
island ; and afterwards, when I searched the ship again, I coidd 
not come at any pipes at all. 

(n my wickerware also I improved much, and made abundance 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE l2l 

of DOCMsary baskets, as well as my invention showed me ; 
though not very handsome, yet they were such as were very 
handy and convenient for my laying things up in, or fetching 
things home. For example, if I killed a goat abroad, I could 
hang it up in a tree, flay it, dress it, and cut it in pieces, and 
bring it home in a basket; and the like by a turtle : I could cut it 
up, take out the eggs, and a piece or two of the flesh, which was 
enough for me, and bring them home in a basket, and leave the 
rest behind me. Also large deep baskets were the receivers of 
my corn, which I always rubbed out as soon as it was dry, and 
cured, and kept it in great baskets. 

I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably ; this 
was a want which it was impossible for me to supply, and I began 
seriously to consider what I must do when I should have no 
more powder ; that is to say, how I should do to kill any goats. 
I had, as is observed, in the third year of my being here, kept a 
young kid, and bred her up tame, and I was in hopes of getting a 
he -goat : but I could not by any means bring it to pass, till my 
kill grew an old goat; and as I could never find in my heart to 
ill her, she died at last of mere age. 

11 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION XVI. 

KB BEARb A FLOCK OF GOATS.— HIS DAIBT.— HIS DOMESTIC HAiUTS AKT ITVLI 
OP UVING. — INCBEASING P&OSPERITT. 

Being now in the eleventh year of my residence, and, as I 
have said, my ammunition growing low, I set myself to study 
some art to trap and snave the goats, to see whether I could not 
catch some of them alive ; and particularly, I wanted a she-goat 
^reat with young. For this purpose, I made snares to hamper 
them ; and I do believe they were more than once taken in them ; 
hut my tackle was not good, for I had no wire, and I always 
found them broken, and my bait devoured. At length I resolved 
to try a pitfall : so I dug several large pits in the earth, in places 
where I had observed the goats used to feed, and over those pits 
I placed hurdles, of my own making too, with a great weight 
upon them ; and several times I put ears of barley and dry rice, 
without setting the trap; and I could easily perceive that the 
goats had gone in and eaten up the com, for I could see the 
marks of their feet. At length I set three traps in one night, and 
going the next morning, I found them all standing, and yet the bait 
eaten and gone ; this was very discouraging. However, I altered 
my traps; and, not to trouble you with particulars, going one 
morning to see my traps, I found in one of them a large old he-goat, 
and in one of the others three kids, a male and two females. 

As to the old one, 1 knew not what to do with him ; he was so 
fierce, I durst not go into the pit to him ; that is to say, to go 
about to bring him away alive, which was what I wanted : 1 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 123 

could have killed him, but that was not my business, nor would 
it answer my end ; so I even let him out, and he ran away, as if 
he had been frightened out of his wits. But I had forgot then, 
what I had learned afterwards, that hunger will tame a lion. If 
I had let him stay there three or four days without food, and then 
have carried him some water to drink, and then a little com, he 
^otild have been as tame as one of the kids ; for they are mighty 
sagacious, tractable creatures, where they are well used. How- 
ever, for the present I let him go, knowing no better at that time : 
then I went to the three kids, and taking them one by one, I tied 
them with strings together, and with some difficulty brought them 
all home. 

It was a good while before they would feed; btit throwing 
them some sweet com, it tempted them, and they began to be 
tame. And now I found that if I expected to supply myself with 
goafs flesh when I had no powder or shot left, breeding some up 
tame was my only way ; when, perhaps, I might have them about 
my house like a flock of sheep. But then it occurred to me, that 
I must keep the tame from the wild, or else thiey would always 
run wild when they grew up : and the only way for this was, to 
have some enclosed piece of ground, well fenced, either with hedge 
or pale, to keep them in so efiectually, that those within might 
not break out, or those without break in. 

This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands ; yet as I 
saw there was an absolute necessity for doing it, my first work 
was to find out a proper piece of ground, where there was likely 
to be herbage for them to eat, water for them to drink, and cover 
to keep them from the sun. 

Those who understand such enclosures will think I had very 
little contrivance, when I pitched upon a place very proper for all 
these (being a plain open piece of meadow land, or savannah, as 
our people call it in the western colonies), which had two or three 
little drills of fresh water in it, and at one end was very woody ; 
I say, they will smile at my forecast, when I shall tell them, I 
began my enclosing thb piece of ground in such a manner, that 
my hedge or pale must have been at least two miles about. Nor 
was the madness of it so great as to the compass, for if it was 
ten miles about, I was like to have time enough to do it in ; but I 
did not consider that my goats would be as wild in so much com- 
pass as if they had had the whole island, and I should have so 
much room to chase them in, that I should never catch them. 

My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe about fifty yards. 
when this thought occurred to me ; so I presently stopped shm 
and, for the first beginning, I resolved to enclose a piece of ubout 



Digitized 



by Google 



124 ADVErfTURlCS OF 

one hundred and fifty yards in length, and one hundred yards in 
breadth ; which, ai it would maintain as many as I should have 
in any reasonable time, so, as my stock increased, I could add 
more ground to my enclosure. 

This was acting with some prudence, and I went to work with 
courage. I was about three months hedging in the first piece ; 
and, till I had done it, I tethered the three kids in the best part 
of it, and used them to feed as near me as possible, to make 
them familiar ; and very often I would go and carry them seme 
ears of barley, or a handful of rice, and feed them out of my hand . 
so that after my enclosure was finished, and I let them loose, they 
would follow me up and down, bleating after me for a handful 
of corn. % 

This answered my end ; and in about a year and a half I had a 
flock of about twelve goats, kids and all ; aud in two years more, 
I had three-ajid-forty, besides several that I took and killed for my 
food. After that I enclosed five several pieces of ground to feed 
them in, with little pens to drive them into, to take them as I 
wanted, and gates out of one piece of ground into another. 

But this was not all ; for now I not only had goat's flesh to feed . 
on when I pleased, but milk too ; a thing which, indeed, in the 
beginning, I did not so much as think of, and which, when it 
came into my thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise : for 
now I set up my dairy, and had sometimes a gallon pr two ot 
milk in a day. And as Natiu*e, who gives supplies of food to 
every creature, dictates even naturally how to make use of it, so I, 
that had never milked a cow, much less a goat, or seen butter or 
cheese made, only when I was a boy, after a great many essays 
and miscarriages, made me both butter and cheese at last, and 
also salt (though I found it partly made to my hand by the heat 
of the sun upon some of the rocks of the sea), and never wanted 
it after^vards. How mercifully can our Creator treat his creatures, 
even in those conditions in which tfa^y seem ro be overwhelmed 
in destruction ! How can he sweeten the bitterest providences, 
and give us cause to prabe him for dungeons and prisons ! What 
a table was here spread for me in a wilderness, where I saw 
nothing, at first, but to perish for hunger ! 

It would have made a stoic smile, to have seen me and my 
little family sit down to dinner : there was my majesty, the prince 
and lord of the whole island ; I had the lives of all my subjects at 
my absolute command; I could hang, draw, give liberty, and 
take it away ; and no rebels among all my subjects. Then to see 
how like a king I dined too, all alone, attended by my servants : 
Poll, as if he had been my favourite, was the only person per- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



KOBIIfSON CRUSOE. 125 

mitted to talk to me. My dog, now grown very old and crazy, sat 
always at my right hand ; and two cats, one on one side of the 
table, and one on the other, expecting now and then a bit fronp 
my hand, as a mark of special favour. 

But these were not the two cats which I brought on shore at 
first ; for they were both of them dead, and had been interred 
near my habitation by my own hand ; but one of them having 
multiplied by I know not what kind of creature, these were two 
which I had preserved tame ; whereas the rest ran wild in the 
woods, and became indeed troublesome to me at last ; for they 
would often come into my house, and plunder me toe, till at last I 
was obliged to shoot them, and did kill a great many ; at length 
they left me. With this attendance, and in this plentiful manner, 
I lived ; neither could 1 be said to want any thing but society : and 
of that, some time after this, I was like to have too much. 

I was something impatient, as I have observed, to have the use 
of my boat, though very loath to run any more hazards ; and 
therefore sometimes I sat contriving ways to get her about the 
bland, and at other times I sat myself down contented enough 
without her. But I had a strange uneasiness in my mind to go 
down to the point of the island, where, as I have said, in my last 
ramble, I went up the hill to see how the shore lay, and how the 
current set, that I might see what I had to do : this inclination 
increased upon me every day, and at length I resolved to travel 
thither by land, following the edge of the shore. I did so ; but 
had any one in England encountered such a man as I was, it 
must either have frightened him, or raised a great deal of laughter : 
and as I frequently stood still to look at myself, I could not but 
smile at the notion of my travelling through Yorkshire, with such 
an equipage, and in such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch 
of my figure, as follows : 

I had a great high shapeless cap, made of a goafs skin, with a 
flap hanging down behind, as weU to keep the sun from me as to 
shoot the rain off from running into my neck : nothing being so hurt 
ful in these climates as the rain upon the flesh, under the clothes. 

I had a short jacket of goat^s skin, the skirts coming down to 
about the middle of the thighs, and a pair of open-kneed breeches 
of the same ; the breeches were made of the skin of an old he- 
goat, whose hair hung down such a length on either side, that, 
like pantaloons, it reached to the middle of my legs ; stockings 
and shoes I had none, but had made me a pair of something, I 
scarce know what to call them, like buskins, to flap over my legs, 
and lace on either side like spatterdashes : but of a most barbar- 
ous shape, as indeed were all the rest of my clothes. 

11* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



26 iUDVENTURES OF 

I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I drew together 
with tivo thongs of the same, instead of buckles ; and in a kind of 
a frog on either side of this, instead of a sword and dagger, hung 
a little saw and a hatchet ; one on one side, and one on the other. 
I had another belt, not so broad, and fastened in the same man- 
ner, which hung over my shoulder ; and at the end of it, under 
my left arm, hung two pouches, both made of goat^s skin too ; in 
one of which hung my powder, in the other my shot. At my 
back I carried my basket, and on my shoulder my gun ; and over 
my head a great clumsy ugly goat's skin umbrella, but which, 
after all, was the most necessary thing I had about me, next to my 
gun. As for my face, the colour of it was really not so mulatto-like 
as one might expect from a man not at all careful of it, and living 
within nine or ten degrees of the equinox. My beard I had once 
sufifered to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long ; but as 
I had both scissors and razors sufficient, I had cut it pretty short, 
except what grew on my upper lip, which I had trimmed into a 
large pair of Mahometan whiskers, such as I had seen worn by 
some Turks at Sallee ; for the Moors did not wear such, though • 
the Turks did : of these mnstachios or whiskers, I will not say 
they were long enough to hang my hat upon them, but they were 
of a length and shape monstrous enough, and such as, in England, 
would have passed for frightful. 

But all this is by the by ; for, as to my figure, I had so few to 
observe me that it was of no manner of consequence ; so I say no 
more to that part. In thb kind of figure I went my new journey, 
and was out five or six days. I travelled first along the seashore, 
directly to the place where I first brought my boat to an anchor, 
to get upon the rocks ; and having no boat now to take care of, I 
went over the land, a nearer way, to the same height that I was 
upon before; when looking forward to the point of the rocks 
which lay out, and which I was obliged to double with my boat, 
OS is said above, I was surprised to see the sea all smooth and 
quiet ; no rippling, no motion, no current, any more there than in 
any other places. I was at a sti'ange loss to understand this, and 
resolved to spend some time in the observing it, to see if nothing 
from the sets of the tide had occasioned it; but I was presently 
convinced how it was, viz. that the tide of ebb setting from the 
west, and joining with the current of waters from some great 
river on the shore ; must be the occasion of this current ; and that 
according as the wind blew more forcibly from the west, or from 
the north, this current came nearer, or went farther from the 
shore ; for waiting thereabouts till evening, I went up to the rock 
again, and then the tide of ebb being made, I plainly saw the current 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



moBiNSOir oAUtoB. 127 

again as before, only that it ran farther off, being near half a league 
from the ihore ; whereas, in my case, it set close upon the shore, 
and harried me and my canoe along with it ; which, at another 
time^ it would not have done« 

This observation convinced me, that I had nothing to do but to 
observe the ebbing and the flowing of the tide, aud I might very 
easily bring my boat about the bland again : but when I began to 
think of putting it in practice, I had such a terror upon my spirits at 
the remembrance of the danger I had been in, that I could not think 
of it again with any patience ; but, on the contrary, I took up another 
resolution, which was more safe, though more laborious ; and this 
was, that I would build, or rather make me another periagua or 
canoe ; and so have one for one side of the island, and one for the 
other. 

You are to understand, that now I had, as I may call it, two 
plantations in the island ; one, my little fortification or tent, with 
the wall about it, under the rock, with the cave behind me, which, 
by this time, I had enlarged into several apartments or caves, one 
within another. One of these, which was the driest and largest, 
and had a door out beyond my wall or fortification, that b to say, 
beyond where my wall joined to the rock, was all filled up with the 
large earthen pots, of which I have given an account, and with 
fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which would hold five or six 
busheb each, where I laid up my store of provbioa, especially 
my corn, some in the ear, cut off short from the straw, and the 
other rubbed out with mv hand 

As for my wall, made, as before, witn long stakes or piles, those 
piles grew all like trees, and were by this time grown so big, and 
spread so very much, that there was not the least appearance, to 
any one*s view, of any habitation behind them. 

Near thb dwelling of mine, but a little farther within the land, 
and upon lower ground; lay my two pieces of com land, which I 
kept duly cultivated and sowed, and which duly yielded me their 
harvest in its season : and whenever I had occasion for more com, 
I had more land adjoining as fit as that. 

Besides this, I had my country seat; and I had now a tolerable 
plantation there also ; for, first, I had my little bower, as I called 
it, which I kept in* repair; that is to say, I kept the hedge which 
encircled it constantly fitted up to its usual height, the ladder 
standing always in the inside ; I kept the trees, which at first were 
no more than my stakes, but were now grown very firm and tall, 
always cut so, that they might spread and grow thick and wild, 
and make the more agreeable shade ; which they did effectually tc 
my mind. In the middle of thb I had my tent always standing 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



128 AUYKirTUMn op 

being a piece of a sail spread over poles, set vp for that purpose, 
aoU which never wanted any repair or renewing ; and under this 
I had made me a squab or couch, with the skins of the creatures 1 
had killed, and with other soft things ; and a blanket laid on them, 
such as belonged to our sea-bedding, which I had saved, and a 
great watch-coat to cover me ; »eid here, whenever I had occasion 
to be absent from m j chief seat, I took up my country habitation. 

Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my cattle, that is to 
say, my goats ; and as I had taken an inconceivable deid of pains 
to fence and enclose this ground^ I was so anxious to see it kept 
entire, lest the 'goats should break through, that I never left off, till, 
with infinite labour, I stuck the outside of the hedge so full of 
small stakes, and so near to one another, that it was rather a pale 
than a hedge, and there was scarce room to put a hand through 
between them; which afterwards, when those stakes grew, as 
they all did in the next rainy season, made the enclosure strong 
like a wall,— indeed, stronger than any wall. 

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that I sp»«d no 
pains to bring to pass whatever appeared necessary for my com- 
fortable support; for I considered the keeping up a breed of tame 
creatures thus at my hand would be a living magazine of flesh, 
milk, butter, and cheese for me as long as I lived in the place, if 
it were to be forty years ; and that keeping them in my reach 
depended entirely upon my perfecting my enclosures to such a 
degree, that I might be sure of keeping them together; which, by 
this method, indeed, I so effectually secured, that when these little 
stakes began to grow, I had planted them so very thick, diat I 
was forced to pull some of them up again. 

In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I principally 
depended on for my winter store of raisins, and which I never 
failed to preserve very carefully, as the best and most agreeable 
dainty of my whole diet : and, indeed, they were not only agree- 
able, but medicinal, wholesome, nourishing, and refreshing to the 
last degree. 

As this was also about half-way between my other habitation 
and the place where I had .laid up my boat, I generally stayed and 
lay here in my way thither ; for I used frequently to visit my boat ; 
and I kept all things about, or belonging to her, in very good 
order : sometimes I went out in her to divert myself, but no more 
hazardous voyages would I go, nor scarce ever above a stone's 
cast or two from the shore, I was so apprehensive of being hurried 
out of^my knowledge again by the currents, or winds, or any other 
accident But now I come to a new scene of my life. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION XVII. 

tTHEXPXCTED ALABM AND CAUSE TOR APPREHENSION'— HE PORTIPIES HIS 
ABODE. 

It happeaed one day, about nooii« gomg towards my boat I 
was exceedingly surprised with the print of a man*s naked foot od 
the shore, which was very plain to be seen in the sand. I stood 
like one thunderstruck, or as if I had seen an apparition ; I listened, 
I looked round me, but I could hear nothing, nor see any thing ; 
I went up to a rising ground, to look farther; I went up the 
shore, and down the shore, but it was all one ; I could see no 
other impressions but that one. I went to it again to see* if tiere 
were any more, and to observe if it might not be my fancy ; but 
there was no room for that, for there was exactly the print of o 
foot, toes, heel, and every part of a foot : how it came thither 1 
knew not, nor could I in the least imagine ; but after innumerable 
fluttering thoughts, like a man perfectly confused and out of my- 
self, I came home to my fortification, not feeling, as we say, the 
ground I went on, but terrified to the last degree : looking behind 
me at every two or three steps, mistaking every bush and tree, and 
fancying every stump at a distance to be a man^ Nor is it possi- 
ble to describe how many various shapes my affrighted imagi- 
nation represented things to me in, how many wild ideas were 
found every moment in my fancy, and what strange unaccountable 
whimsies came into my thoughts by the way. 

When I came to my castle (for so I think I called it ever af^r 
this), I fled into it like one pursued ; whether I went over by the 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



130 ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

ladder, as first contriyed, or went in at the hole in the rock, which 
I had called a door, I cannot remember ; no, nor could I remember 
the next morning ; for never frightened hare lied to cover, or fox 
to earth, with more terror of mind than I to this retreat. 

I slept none that night ; the farther I was from the occasion of 
my fright, the greater my apprehensions were ; which is some- 
thing contrary to the nature of such things, and especially to the 
usual practice of all creatures in fear; but I was so embar- 
rassed with my own frightful ideas of the thing, that I formed 
nothing but dismal imaginations to myself, even though I was 
now a great way off it. Sometimes I fancied it must be the Devil, 
and reason joined in with me upon this supposition ; for how 
should any other thing in human shape coma into the place ? 
Where was the vessel that brought them ? What marks were 
there of any other footsteps ? And how was it possible a man 
should come there ? But then to think that Satan should take 
human shape upon him in such a place, where there could be no 
manner of occasion for it, but to leave the print of his foot behind 
him, and that even for no purpose too, for he could not be sure I 
should see it, — thb was an amazement the other way. I con- 
sidered that the Devil might have found out abundance of other 
ways to have terrified me than this of the single print of a foot ; 
that as I lived quite on the other side of the island, he would never 
have been so simple as to leave a mark in a place where it was 
ten thousand to one whether I should ever see it or not, and in 
the sand too, which the first surge of the sea, upon a high wind, 
would have defaced entirely : all this seemed inconsistent with the 
thing itself, and with all the notions we usually entertain of the 
subtlety of the Devil. 

Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me out of 
all apprehensions of its being the Devil; and I presently con- 
cluded then, that it must be some more dangerous creature, viz. 
that it must be some of the savages of the main land over-against 
me, who had wandered out to sea in their canoes, and either 
driven by the currents or by contrary winds, had made the island, 
and had been on shore, but were gone away again to sea ; being 
as loath, perhaps, to have stayed in this desolate island as I would 
have been to have had them. 

While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was very 
thankful in my thoughts that I was so happy as not to be there- 
abouts at that time, or that they did not see my boat, by which 
they would have concluded that some inhabitants had been in the 
place, and perhaps have searched farther for me : then terrible 
thoughts racked my imagination about their having found my' 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 131 

boat, and that ibere were people here ; and ^tliat if so, I should 
certainly have them come again in greater numbers, and devour 
rae ; that if it should happen so that they should not find me, 
yet they would find my enclosure, destroy all my corn, and carry 
away all my flock of tame goats, and I should perish at 4ast for 
mere want. 

Thus my fear banished all m^ religious hope, all that former 
confidence in God, which was founded upon such wonderful ex- 
perience as I had had of his goodness, as if he that had fed 
me by miracle hitherto could not preserve by his power, the 
provision which he had made for me by his goodness. I re- 
proached myself with my laziness, that would not sow any more 
corn one year than would just serve me till the next season, as if 
no accident would intervene to prevent my enjoying the crop that 
was upon the ground ; and this I thought so just a reproof, that I 
resolved for the future to have two or three years' corn before- 
hand ; so that whatever might come, I might not perish for want 
of bread. 

How strange a checker-work of Providence is the life of man ! 
and by what secret different springs are the affections hurried 
about, as different circumstances present ! To-day we love what 
to-morrow we hate ; to-day we seek what to-morrow we shun ; 
to-day we desire what to-morrow we fear, nay, even tremble at 
the apprehensions of; this was exemplified in me, at this time, in 
the most lively manner imaginable ; for I, whose only affliction 
was that I seemed banished from human society, that I was alone, 
circumscribed by the boundless ocean, cut off from mankind, and 
condemned to what I called silent life ; that I was as one whom 
Heaven thought not worthy to be numbered among the living, or 
to appear among the rest of his creatures; that to have seen one 
of my own species would have seemed to me a rabing me from death 
to life, and the greatest blessing that Heaven itself, next to the 
supreme blessing of salvation, could bestow ; I say, that I should 
now tremble at the very apprehensions of seeing a man, and was 
ready to sink into the ground at but the shadow or silent appear- 
ance of a man's having set his foot in the island. 

Such is the uneven state of human life ; and it afforded me a 
great many curious speculations afterwards, when I had a little 
recovered my first surprise. I considered that this was the station 
of life the infinitely wise and good providence of God had deter- 
mined for me ; that as I could not foresee what the ends of Divine 
wisdom might be in all this, so I was not to dispute his sovereignty, 
who, as I was his creature, had an undoubted right, by creation, 
to govern and dispose of me absolutely as he thought fit . and 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



lai ^ ADVCNTDRKS OP 

who, as 1 was a creature that had oflfeaded him, had likewiso a 
judicial right to conclemu me to what punishment he thought fit ; 
and that it was my part to submit to bear his indignation, because 
I had sinned against him. I then reflected, that as God, who 
vras not only righteous, but omnipotent, had thought fit thus to 
punish and afflict me, so he was able to deliver me ; that if he 
did not think fit to do so, it was my unquestioned duty to resign 
myself absolutely and entirely to his will ; and, on the other hand, 
it was my duty also to hope in him, pray to him, and quietly to 
attend the dictates and directions of his daily providence. 

These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I may say, 
weeks and months ; and one particular effect of my cogitations 
on this occasion I cannot omit : One morning early, lying in my 
bed, and filled with thoughts about my danger from the appear- 
ances of savages, I found it discomposed me very much ; upon 
which these words of the scripture came into my thoughts : ** Call 
upon me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou 
shalt glorify me." Upon this, rbing cheerfully out of my bed, 
my heart was not only comforted, but I was guided and encouraged 
to pray earnestly to God for deliverance : when I had done pray- 
ing, I took up my Bible, and opening it to read, the first words 
that presented to me were, ** Wait on the Lord, and be of good 
'.'heer, and he shall strengthen thy heart; wait, I say, on the 
Lord." It is impossible to express the comfort this gave me. In 
answer, I thankfully laid down the book, aud was no more sad. 
It least on that occasion. 

In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and reflec- 
ions, it came into my thoughts one day, that all this might be a 
mere chimera of my own, and that this foot might be the print of 
my own foot, when I came on shore from my boat : this cheered 
me up a little too, and I began to persuade myself it was all a 
delusion ; that it was nothing else but my own foot : and why 
might I not come that way from the boat, as well as I was going 
that way to the boat? Again, I considered also, that I could by 
no means tell, for certain, where I had trod, and where I had nut ; 
and that if, at last, this was only the print of my own foot, I had 
played the part of those fools who try to make stories of spectres 
and apparitions, and then are fri^rhtened at them more than any 
body. 

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again, for I 
had not stirred out of my castle for three days and nights, so that 
I began to starve for provisions ; for I had little or nothing within 
doors but some barley cakes and water : then I knew that my 
goats wanted to be milked too, which usually was my evening 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOB. 133 

diversion ; and the poor creatures were in great pain and incon- 
f^enience for want of it ; and, indeed, it almost spoiled some o' 
them, and almost dried up their milk. Encouraging myself, 
therefore, with the belief that this was nothing but the print ol 
one of my own feet, and that I might be truly said to start at my 
own shadow, I began to go abroad again, and went to my coun- 
try house to milk my flock : but to see with what fear I went for- 
ward, how often I looked behind me, how I was ready every now 
and then, to lay down my basket, and run for my life, it would 
have made any one thought I was haunted with an evil con- 
science, or that I had been lately most terribly frightened ; and so, 
indeed, I had. However, as I went down thus two or three days, 
and having seen nothing, I began to be a little bolder, and to 
think there was really nothing in it but my own imagination ; 
but I could not persuade myself fully of this till I should go down 
to the shore again, and see. this print of a foot, and measure it by 
my own, and see if there was any similitude or fitness, that I might 
he assured it was my own foot : but when I came to the place, 
Brst, it appeared evidently to me, that when I laid up my boat, I 
could not possibly be on shore any where thereabout : secondly, 
when I came to measure the mark with my own foot, I found my 
foot not so large by a great deal. Both these things filled my 
head with new imaginations, and gave me the vapours again to 
the highest degree, so that I shook with cold like one in an ague ; 
and I went home again, filled with the belief that some man ot 
men had been on shore there ; or, in short, that the island was 
inhabited, and I might be surprised before I was aware; and 
what course to take for my security I knew not. 

O what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed with 
fear! It deprives them of the use of those means which reason 
offers for their relief. The first thing I proposed to myself was, 
to throw down my enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle Avild 
into the woods, lest the enemy should find them, and then fre- 
quent the island in prospect of the same or the like booty : then 
to the simple thing of digging up my two com fields, lest they 
should find such a grain there, and still be prompted to frequent 
the island : then to demolish my bower and tent, that they might 
not see any vestiges of habitation, and be prompted to look farther, 
in order to find out the person inhabiting. 

These were the subjects of the first night's cogitations after I 
was come home again, while the apprehensions which had so 
overrun my mind were fresh upon me, and my head was full of 
vapours as above. Thus fear of danger is ten thousand times 
more terrifying than danger itself, when apparent tS the eyes; 

12 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



134 ADYBNTURES Of 

and we find the burthen of anxiety greater, by much, than the 
evil which we are anxious abotit : and, which was worse than ail 
this, I had not that relief in this trouble, from the resignation I 
used to practise, that I hoped to have. I looked, I thought, like 
Saul, who complained not only that the Philistines were upon him, 
but that God had forsaken him ; for I did not now take due ways 
to compose my mind, by crying to God in my distress, and resting 
upon his providence, as I had done before, for my defence and 
deliverance; which, if I had done, I had at least been more cheer- 
fully supported under this new surprise, and perhaps carried 
through it with more resolution. 

This confusion of my thoughts kept me awake all night ; but in 
the morning I fell asleep ; and having, by the amusement of my 
mind, been, as it were tired, and my spirits exhausted, I slept 
very soundly, and waked much better composed than I had ever 
been before. And now I began to think sedately; and, upon the' 
utmost debate with myself, I concluded that this island, which 
was so exceeding pleasant, fruitful, and no farther from the main 
land than as I had seen, was not so entirely abandoned as I might 
imagine; that although there were no stated inhabitants who 
lived on the spot, yet that there might sometimes come boats off 
from the shore, who, either with design, or perhaps never but 
when they were driven by cross winds, might come to this place ; 
that I had lived here fifteen years now, and had not met with the 
least shadow or figure of any people yet ; and that if at any time 
they should be driven here, it was probable they went away again 
as soon as ever they could, seeing they had never thought fit to 
fix here upon any occasion ; that the most I could suggest any 
danger from, was from any casual accidental landing of straggling 
people from the main, who, as it wis likely, if they were driven 
hither, were here against their wills, so they made no stay here, 
but went off again with all possible speed ; seldom staying one 
night on shore, lest they should not have the help of the tides and 
day-light back again ; and that therefore, I had nothing to do but to 
consider of some safe retreat, in case I should see any savages 
land upon the spot. 

Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave so large 
as to bring a door through again, which door, as I said, came out 
beyond where my fortification joined to the rock : upon maturely 
considering this, therefore, I resolved to draw me a second forti- 
fication, in the same manner of a semicircle, at a distance from 
my wall, just where I had planted a double row of trees about 
twelve ye^ before, of which I made mention : these trees having 
been planted so thick before, they wanted but few piles to be 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



K0BI1I80II CKU80C. 135 

drivea between them, that they might be thicker and stronger, 
and my wall would be soon finished : so that I had now a double 
wall ; and my outer wall was thickened with pieces of timber, old 
cables, and every thing I could think of, to make it strong ; having 
in it seven little holes, about as big as I might put my arm out at. 
In the inside of this, I thickened my wall to about ten feet thick, 
with continually bringing earth out of my cave, and laying it at 
the foot of the wall, and walking upon it; and through the seven 
holes I contrived to plant the muskets, of which I took notice that 
I had got seven on shore out of the ship ; these I planted like my 
cannon, and fitted them into frames, that held them like a carriage^ 
so that I could fire all the seven guns in two minutes* time : thit* 
wall I was many a weary month in finishing, and yet never thought 
myself safe till it was done. 

When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my wall, 
for a great length every way, as full with stakes, or sticks, of the 
osier-like wood, which I found so apt to grow, as they could well 
stand ; insomuch, that I believe I might set in near twenty thou- 
sand of them, leaving a pretty large space between them and my 
wall, that I might have room to see an enemy, and they might 
have no shelter from the young .trees, if they attempted to ap- 
proach my outer wall. 

Thus in two years* time, I had a thick grove ; and in five or si:i 
years' time I had a wood before my dwelling, growing so mon- 
strous thick and strong, that it was indeed perfectly impassable ; 
and no men, of what kind so ever, would imagine that there was' 
any thing beyond it, much less a habitation. As for the way 
which I proposed to myself to go in and out (for I left no avenue), 
it was by setting two ladders, one to a part of the rock which was 
low, and then broke in, and left room to place another ladder 
upon that ; so when the two ladders were taken down, no man 
living could come down to me without doing himself mischief; 
and if they had come down, they were still on the outside of my 
outer wall. 

Thus I took all the measures human prudence could suggest for 
my own preservation ; and it will be seen, at length, that they were 
not altogether without just reason; though I foresaw nothing at 
that time more than my mere fear suggested to me. 

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my other 
affairs; for I had a great concern upon me for my little herd of 
goats; they were not only a ready supply to me on every 
occasion, and began to be sufficient for me, without the ex- 
pense of powder and shot, but also without the fatigue 
of hunting after the wild ones ; and I was loath to lose the 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



196 IU>B»N801f CRUSOE. 

adyantage ~ of them, and to have them all to nurse up over 
again. 

For this purpose, after long consideration, I could think of but 
two ways to preserve them : one was, to find another convenient 
place to dig a cave under ground, and to drive them into it every 
night ; and the other was, to enclose two or three little bits of 
land, remote from one another, and as much concealed as I 
could, where I might keep about half a dozen young goats in each 
place ; so that if any dbaster happened to the flock in general, I 
might be able to raise them again with little trouble and time : - 
and this, though it would require a great deal of time and labour, I 
thought was the most rational design. 

Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most retired 
parts of the island ; and I pitched upon one, which was as pri- 
vate, indeed, as my heart could wish for : it was a little damp 
piece of ground, in the middle of the hollow and thick woods, 
where, as is observed, I almost lost myself once before, endeavour- 
ing to come back that way from the eastern part of the island. 
Here I found a clear piece of land, near three acres, so sur- 
rounded with woods, that it was almost an enclosure by nature; 
at least, it did not want near so much labour to make it so as the 
other pieces of ground I had worked so hard at. 



Digitized 



by Google 



SECTION XVIII. 
nufCAmoNs against surprise, -robinson discovers that his island hai 

fiSBN VISITED BY CANNIBALS. 

I IMMEDIATELY Went to work with this piece of ground, and in 
less than a month*s time I had so fenced it round, that my flock, 
or herd, call it which you please, who were not so wild now as at 
first they might he supposed to be, were well enough secured in 
it : so, without any farther delay, I removed ten young she goats 
and two he goats to this place ; and when they were there, I con- 
tinued to perfect the fence, till I had made it as secure as the 
other, which, however, I did at more lebure, and it took me up 
more time by a great deal. All this labour I was at the exj)ense 
of, purely from my apprehensions on the account of the print of a 
man's foot which I had seen ; for, as yet, I never saw any human 
creature come near the island ; and I had now lived two years 
under this uneasiness, which, indeed, made my life much less 
comfortable than it was before, as may be well imagined by any 
who knows what it is to live in the constant snare of the fear of 
man. And this I must observe, with grief too, that the discom- 
posure of my mind had too great impressions also upon the reli- 
gious part of my thoughts : for the dread and terror of falling into 
the hands of savages and cannibals lay so upon my spirits, that 1 
seldom found myself in a due temper ror application to my Maker, 
at least not with the sedate calmness and resignation of soul 
which I was wont to do : I rather prayed to God as unde great 

12* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



138 ADYSNTURES OT 

affliction and pressure of mind, surrounded with danger, and in 
expectation every night of being murdered and devoured before 
morning ; and I must testify from my experience, that a temper 
- of peace, thankfulness, love, and affection, is much the more pro- 
per frame for prayer than that of terror and discomposure ; and 
that under the dread of mischief Impending, a man is no more fit 
for a comforting performance of the duty of praying to God, than 
he is for a repentance on a sick bed ; for these discomposures affect 
the mind, as the others do the body; and the discomposure of the 
mind must necessarily be as great a disability as that of the body, 
and much greater ; praying to God being properly an act of the 
mind, not of the body. 

But to go on : after I had thus secured one part of my little 
. living stock, I went about the whole island, searching for another 
private place to make such another deposit ; when, wandermg 
more to the west point of the island than I had ever done yet, 
and looking out to sea, I thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at a 
great distance. I had found a perspective glass or two in one of 
the seamen^s chests, which I saved out of our ship, but I had it 
not about me ; and this was so remote, that I could not fell what 
to make of it, though I looked at it till my eyes were not able to hold 
to look any longer : whether it was a boat or not, I do not know, but 
as I descended from the hill I could see no more of it, so I gave 
it over ; only I resolved to go no more out without a perspective 
glass in my pocket. When I was come down the hill to the end 
of the island, where, indeed, I had never been before, I was pre- 
sently convinced that the seeing the print of a man^s foot was not 
such a strange thing in the island as I imagined : and, but that it 
was a special providence that I was ciast upon the side of the 
Uland where the savages never came, I should easily have known 
that nothing was more frequent than for the canoes from the 
main, when they happened to be a little too far out at sea, to 
shoot over to that side of the island for harbour : likewise, as they 
often met and fought in their canoes, the victors, having taken 
any prisoners, would bring them over to this shore, where, ac- 
cording to their dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they would 
kill and eat them; of which hereafter. 

When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said above, 
bemg the south-west point of the island, I was perfectly con- 
founded and amazed ; nor is it possible for me to express the 
norror of ray mind, at seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands, 
feet, and other bones of human bodies; aijid, particularly, 1 
observed a place Avhere t^cre had been a fire made, and a cirtile 
dug in the earth, like ti cockpit, where I supposed the savage 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBfifSoir cRUsox. 139 

wretehefl h»d sat down to their inhuman feastitigs upon the bodieii 
of their fellow-creatures. 

I was so astonished with the sight of these things, that 1 
entertained no notions of any dauger to myself from it for a long 
while : all my apprehensions were buried in the thoughts of »nch 
a pitch of inhuman, hellish brutality, and the horror of the de- 
generacy of human nature, which, though I had heard of it often, 
yet I never had so near a view of before : in short, I turned away 
my face from the horrid spectacle ; my stomach grew sick, and 
I was JQst at the point of fainting, when nature discharged 
the disorder from my stomach; and having vomited with 
uncommon violence^ 1 was a little relieve, but could not bear 
to stay in the place a moment ; so I get me up the hill again 
with sdl the speed I could, and walke4 dn towards my own habi- 
tation. / 

When I came a little out of that j^art of the island, I stood still 
a while, as amazed, and then recoi^ring myself, I looked up with 
the utmost afifection of my soul^ and, with a flood of tears in my 
eyes, gave God thanks, that had cast my first lot tn a part of the 
world where I was distinguished from such dreadful creatures as 
these; and that, though I had esteemed my present condition 
very miserable, had yet given me so many comforts in it, that I 
had still more to give thanks for than to complain of : and this, 
above all, that I had, even in this miserable condition, been com- 
forted with the knowledge of Himself, and the*hope of His bless- 
ing ; which was a felicity more than sufficiently equivalent to al 
the misery which I had suffered, or could suffer. 

In this frame of thankfulness, I went home to my castie, and 
began to be much easier now, as to the safety of my circumstances, 
than ever I was before: for I observed that these wretches never 
came to this island in search of what they could get ; perhaps not 
seeking, not wanting, or not expecting, any thing here; and 
having often, no doubt, been up in the covered woody part of it, 
without finding any thing to their purpose. I knew I had been 
here now almost eighteen years, and never saw the least footsteps 
of human creature there before ; and I might be. eighteen years 
more as entirely concealed as I was now, if I did not discover 
myself to , them, which I had no manner of occasion to do ; it 
being my only business to keep myself entirely concealed where 
I was, unless I found a better sort of creatures than cannibals to 
make myself known to. Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of 
the savage wretches that I have been speaking of, and of the 
wretched inhuman custom of their devouring and eating one 
another up, that I continued pensive and sad, and kept clo<it 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



140 ADVElfTUREf OT 

within my own circle, for almost two years after this ; when I 
say my own circle, I mean by it my three plantations, viz. my 
castle, my country seat, which I called my bower, and my enclo- 
sure in the woods ; nor did I look after this for any other use than 
as an enclosure for my goats ; for the aversion which nature gave 
me to these hellish wretches was such, that I was as fearful of seeing 
them as of seeing the Devil himself. 1 did not so much as go to 
look after my boat all this time, but began rather to think of 
making me another; for I could not think of ever making any 
more attempts to bring the other boat round the bland to me, lest 
[ should meet with so^e of these creatures at sea ; in which if I 
had happened to haveifellen into their hands,«I knew what would 
have been my lot. ^ 

Time, however, and tb#«. satisfaction 1 had that I was in no 
danger of being discovered Mk these people, began to wear off my 
uneasiness about them ; and B^egan to live just in the sa^ie com- 
posed manner as before ; on\ with this difference, that I used 
more caution, and kept my eyes lsu>re about me, than I did before, 
lest I should happen to be seen by any of them ; and particularly, 
I was more cautious of firing my gun, lest any of them being on 
the island should happen to hear it. It was therefore a very good 
providence to me that I had furnished myself with a tame breed 
of goats, and that I had no need to hunt any more about the 
woods, or shoot at them ; and if I did catch any of them after 
this, it was by traps and snares, as I haa dene before : so that for 
two years after this, I believe I never fired mj gun once off, 
though I never went out withoiAt it ; and which was more, as I 
had saved three pistols out of the ship, I always carried them out 
with me, or at least two of them, sticking them in my goatVskin 
belt. I also furbished up one of the great cutlasses that I 
had out of the ship, and made me a belt to hang it on also ; 
so that I was now a most forfhidable fellow to look at when I 
went abroad, if you add to the former description of myself, the 
particular of two pistols, an4 a great broculsword hanging at my 
side in a belt, but without a scabbard. 

Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time, I seemed, 
excepting these cauti^s, to be reduced to my former calm sedate 
way of living. All these things tended to show me, more and 
more, how far ray condition was from being miserable, compared 
to some others; nay, to many other particulars of life, which it 
might have pleased God to have made my lot. It put me upon 
reflecting how little repining there would be among mankind at 
ftuy condition of life, if people would rather compare their con- 
dition with those that were worse, in order to be thankful, tl>an 



Digitized 



by Google 



* BOBUrsOlf CKUSOK. l41 

oe always comparing them with those which are better, to assial 
their murmurings and complainings. 

As in my present condition there were not really many things 
which I wantedt so, indeed, I thought that the frights I had beec 
in about these savage wretches, and the concern I had been in for 
my own preservation, had taken off the edge of my invention for 
my own conveniences ; and I had dropped a good design, which 
] had once bent ray thoughts too much upon, and that was, to try 
if I could not make some of my barley into malt, and then try to 
brew myself some beer. This wa^ really a whimsical thought, 
and I reproved myself often for the simplicity of it ; for I pre- 
sently saw there would be the want of several Uiings necessary to 
the making my beer, that it would be impossible for me to sup- 
ply : as, first, casks to preserve it in, iibich was a thing that, as I 
have observed alrejady, I could never compass; no, though I 
spent not only many days, but weeks* nay, months, in attempting 
it, but to no purpose. In the uest place, I had no hops to make 
it keep, no yest to make it work, no copper or kettle to make it 
DoU; and y^t, with all these things wanting, I very believe, had 
not the frights and teirors I was in about the savages inter- 
vened, I had undertaken it, and perhaps brought it to pass too ; 
for I seldom gave any thing over without accomplishing it, when 
once I had it in my head to begin it. But my invention now ran 
quite another way ; for, night and day, I could think of nothing 
but how I might destaoy some of these monsters in their cruel, 
bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save the victim they should 
bring hither to destroy. It woul j take up a larger volume than 
this whole work is intended to be, to set down all the contrivimces 
I hatched, or rather brooded upon, in my thoughts, for the de- 
stroying these creatures, or at least frightening them so as to 
prevent their coming hither any more : but all this was abortive ; 
nothing could be possible to take 'effect, unless I was to be there 
to do it myself; and what could one man do among them, when 
perhaps there might be twenty or |hirty of them together, with 
their darts, or their bows and arrows, with which they could shoot 
as true to a mark as I could with my gun ? 

Sometimes^ I thought of digging a hole under the {dace where 
they made their fire, and putting in five or six pounds of gun- 
powder, which, when they kindled their fire, would consequently 
take fire, and blow up all that was near it : but as, in the first 
place, I should be unwilling to waste so much powder upon them, 
my store being now widiin the quantity of one bfurrel, so neither 
could I be sure of its going off at any certain time, when it might 
surprise them : and, at best, that it would do little more than just 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



142 ADVENTURES 09 

blow the fire aboat their ears, and fVight them, but not sofficient 
to make them forsake the place : so I laid it aside ^ and then pro- 
posed that I would place myself in ambush in some convenient 
place, with ray three guns all double-loaded, and, in the middle 
of their bloody ceremony, let fly at them, when 1 should be sure 
to kill or wound perhaps two or three at every shot ; and then 
failing in upon them with my three pistols, and my sword, I made 
no doubt but that if there were twenty I should kHl them ail. 
This fancy pleased my thoughts for some weeks ; and I was so 
full of it, that I often dreamed of it, and sometimes that I was 
*ust going to let fly at them in my sleep. I went so far with it in 
my imagination, that I employed myself several days to And out 
proper places to put myself in ambuscade, as I said, to watch for 
them ; and I w^nt frequeoftly to the place itself, which was now 
grown more familiar to me : but while my mind was thus filled 
with thoughts of revenge, and a bloody patting twenty or thirty 
of them to the sword, as I may caH call it, the horror I had at the 
place, and at the signals of the barbarous wretches devouring one 
another, abetted ray malice. Well, at length, I found a place in 
the side of the hill, where I was satisfied I might securely wait till 
I saw any of their boats coming : and might then, even before 
they would be ready to come on shore, convey myself, unseen, 
into some thickets of trees, in one of which there was a hollow 
large enough to conceal me entirely ; and there I might sit and 
observe all their tfloody doings, and take my full aim at their 
, heads, when they were so close together as that it would be next 
to impossible that I should miss my shot, or that I could fail 
wounding three or four of them at the first shot. In this place, 
then, I resolved to fix my design ; and, accordingly, I prepared 
two muskets and my ordinary fowlingpiece. The two muskets I 
loaded with a brace of slugs each, and four or five smaller bullets, 
about the size of pistol-bullets ; and the fowlingpiece I loaded 
with near a handful of swan-shot, of the largest size : I afeo loaded 
my pistols with about four bullets each ; and in this posture, well 
provided with ammunition for a second and third charge, I pre- 
pared myself for my expedition. 

After I had thus laid the scheme of my design, and, in my 
imagination, put it in |Mractice, I continually made my tour every 
morning up to the top of the hill, which was from my castle, as I 
called it, about three miles, or more, to see if I could observe any 
boats upon the Be4 coming near the island, or standing over 
towards it : but I began to tire of this hard duty, after 1 had, 
for two or three months, constantly kept my watch, but came 
always back without any discovery ; there having not, in all that 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



mOBIHSON C&USOK. 143 

thnet been the least appeturaaee, not only on or near the shore, 
but on the whole ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses could reach 
every way. 

As long as 1 kept my daily tour to the hill to look out, so long 
also I kept up the vigour of my design, and my spirits seemed to 
be all the while in a suitable form for so outrageous an execution 
as the killing twenty or thirty naked savages, for an offence which 
I had not at all entered into a discussion of in my thoughts, any 
farther than my passions were at first fired by the horror I con- 
ceived at the unnatural custom of the people of that country ; 
who, it seems, had been suffered by Providence, in his wise dis 
DositioB of the world, to have no other guide than that of their 
own abominable and vitiated passions ; and, consequently, were 
left, and perhaps had been so for some ages, to^act such horrid 
things, and receive such dreadful customs, as nothing but na- 
ture, entirelyidiandoned by Heaven, and actuated by some hellish 
degeneracy^ could have run them into. But now, when, as T 
have said, I began to be weary of the fruitless excursions which I 
had made so long and so far every morning in vain, so my opinion 
of the action itself began to alter ; and I began, with cooler and 
calmer thoughts, to consider what I was going to engage in; 
what authority or call I had to be judge and executioner upon 
these men as criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit, for so 
many ages, to suffer, unpunished, to go on, and to be, as it were, 
the executioners of his judgments one upon another. How far 
these people were offenders against me, and what right I had to 
engage in the quarrel of that blood which they shed promiscu- 
ously upon one another, I debated this very often with myself, 
thus : How do I know what God himself judges in this particular 
case ? It is certain these people do not commit this as a crime ; 
it is not ag^nst their own consciences reproving, or their light 
reproaching them ; they do not know it to be an offence, and 
then commit it in defiance of Divine justice, as we do in almost 
all the sins we commit. They think it no more a crime to kill a 
captive taken in war, than we do to kill an ox ; nor to eat human 
flesh, than we do to eat mutton. 

When I considered this a little, it followed necessarily that I 
was certainly in the wrong in it ; that these people were not mur- 
derers in the sense that I had before condemned them in my 
thoughts, any more than those Christians were murderers who 
often put to death the prisoners taken in battle; or more fre- 
quently, upon many occasions, put whole troops of men to the 
sword, without giving quarter, though they threw down their 
arms and submitted. In the next place, it occurred to me, that 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



144 AJ»yENTUA£8 OP 

although the usage they gave one aaother was thus brutish and 
inhuman, yet it was reaiiy nothing to me ; these people had done 
me no injury : that if they attempted mo, or I saw it necessary, 
for my immediate preservation, to fall upon them, something 
might be said for it ; but that I was yet out of their power, and 
they really had no knowledge of me,, and consequently no design 
upon me : and therefore it could not be just for me to fall upon 
them : that thb would justify the conduct of the Spaniards in all 
their barbarities practised in America, where they deMroyed mil- 
lions of these people: who, however they were idolaters and 
barbarians, and had several bloody and barbarous rites in their 
customs, such as sacrificing human bodies to their idols, were yet, 
as to the Spaniards, very innocent people ; aad that the rooting 
them out of the country is spoken of with the utnsott abhorrence 
and detestation by even the Spaniards themselves at this time, 
and by all other Christian natioas in Europe^ ad a niere butchery, a 
bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty, unjustifiable either to Ood 
or man ; and for which the very name of a Spaniard is reckoned 
to be frightful and terrible to all people of humanity, or of Chris- 
tian compassion ; as if the kingdom of Spain were particularly 
eminent for the produce of a race of men who were without 
principles of tenderness, or the common bowels of pity to the 
miserable, which is reckoned to be a mark of generous temper in 
the mind. 

These considerations really put me to a pause, and to a kind of 
a full stop ; and I began, by little and little, to be off my design, 
and to conclude I had taken wrong measures in my resolution to 
attack the savages ; and that it was not my business to meddle 
with them, unless they first attacked me; and this it was my 
business, if possible, to prevent ; but that if I were discovered and 
attacked by them, I knew my duty. On the other hand, I argued 
with myself, that this really was the way not to deliver myself, 
but entirely to ruin and destroy myself ; for unless I was sure to 
kill every one that not only should be on shore at that time, but 
that should ever come on shore afterwards, if but one of them 
escaped to tell their country-people what had happened, they 
would come over again by thousands to revenge the death of 
their fellows, and I should only bring upon myself a certain de- 
struction, which, at present, I had no manner- of occasion for. 
Upon the whole, I concluded, that neither in prmciple nor in 
policy, I ought, one way or other, to concern myself in this affair : 
that my business was, by all possible means, to conceal myself 
from them, and not to leave the least signal to them to guess by 
that there were any living creatures upon the island, I mean of 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



EOBiirsaH CftTWOE. 145 

inunfloi slmpc. Religkm joined in with thifl pitidentid resolution ; 
and I was convinced now, many ways, that I was perfectly out 
of my duty when I was laying; all my bloody schemes for the 
destruction of innocent creatures, I mean innocent as to me. As 
to the crimes they were guilty of towards one another, I had 
nothing to do with them ; they were national, and I ought to leave 
them t< " ' ■ ------ ' ■ ts, and 

|:now« Ibution 

fornati se who 

ofiend i This 

appears - satis- 

faction L thing 

whieh Ben no 

less as t ; and 

I gave d thus 

deliven iut me 

the proiecuon oi nis proviaence, mai i migai noi imi mto the 
hands of the barbarians, orthat I might not lay my hands upon 
them, unless J had a more dear call from Heaven to do it, in 
defence id my own Ufc 

13 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC ' 



SBCnONXIX. 

mOBlMSON DlffCOVEBS A CAYE, WHICH SERVES HIM AS A RETREAT AOAINSf 

THE SAVAOES. 

f 

Ii? this disposition I continued for near a year after this ; and 
BO far was I from desiring an occasion for falling upon these 
wretches, that in all that time I never once went up the hill to 
see whether there were any of them in sight, or to know whether 
any of them had been on shore tl^ere. or not, that I might not be 
tempted to renew any of my contrivances against them, or be 
provoked, by any advantage whfeh might present itself, to fall 
upon them : only this I did, I went and removed my boat, which 
I had on the other side of the island, and carried it down to the 
east end of the whole bland, where I ran it into a little cove, 
which I fonnd under some high rocks, and where I knew, by 
reason of the currents, the savages durst not, at least would not, 
come with their boats, upon any account whatever. With my 
boat I carried away every thing that I had left there belonging to 
her, though not necessary f«r the bare going thither, viz. a mast 
uid sail which I had made for her, and a thing like an anchor, 
nt which, indeed, could not be called either anchor or grapnel; 
jiowever, it was the best I could make of its kind : all these I 
'emoved, that there might not be the least shadow of any dis- 
covery, or any appearance of any boat, or of any human habi- 
tation, upon the bland. Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, 
more retired than ever, and seldom went from my cell, other than 
fl|M)n my constant employment viz. to milk my she goats, and 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ftOBINSON CRUSOE. 147 

.iianage my little flock in the wood, which, sa it was quke on the 
other part of the island, was quite oat of danger ; for certain it is, 
that these savage people, who sometimes haunted this bland, 
never came with any thoughts of finding any thing here, and con- 
sequently never wandered off from the ^oaat ; and I doubt not 
but they might have been several times on ^hore after my appre- 
hensions of them had made me cautions, us well as before. In- 
deed, I looked back with some horror upon the thoughts of what 
my condition would have been if I had popped upon them and 
been discovered before that, when, naked and unarmed, except 
with one gun, and that loaded often only with small shot, I 
walked every where, peeping and peermg about the island to see 
what I could get ; what a surprise should I have been in, if, when 
I discovered the print of a man's foot, I had, instead of that, seen 
fifteen 6r twenty savages, and found them pursuing mo, and by 
the swiftness of their running, no possibility of my escaping them ? 
The thoughts of this sometimes sunk my very soul within me, 
and distressed my mind so much, that I could not soon recover 
it, to think what I should have done, and how I should not only 
have been unable to resist them, but even should not have had 
presence of mind enough to do what I might have donef much 
less what now, after so much consideration and preparation, I 
might be able to do. Indeed, after serious thinking of these 
things, I would be very melancholy, and sometimes it would last 
a great while ; but I resolved it ^1, at last, into thankfulness to 
that Providence which had delivered me from so many unseen 
, dangers, and had kept from mo those mischiefs which I could 
have no way been the agent in delivering myself from, because I 
had not the least notion of any such thing depending, or the least 
supposition of its being possible. This renewed a contemplation 
which often had come to my thoughts in former time, when first 
I began to see the merciful disposition of Heaven, in the dangers 
we run through in this life ; how wonderfully we are delivered 
when we know nothing of it ; how, when we are in (a quandary, 
as we can it) a doubt or hesitation, whether to go thiai way, or 
that way, a secret hint shall direct us this way, when we intended 
to go that way : nay, when sense, our own inclination, and per- 
haps business, has called to go the other way, yet a strange im- 
pression npon the mind, from we know not what springs, and by 
we know not what power, shall overrule us to go this way ; and 
it shall afterwards appear, that had we gone that way which we 
should have gone, and oven to our imagination ought to have 
gone, we should have been ruined and lost. Upon these, and 
tuany like reflections. I afterwards made it a cfertain rule w«th 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



148 ADt^x^ rURES OF 

me, that whenerer I found those secret hiats or preisiiigs of 
mind, to doing or not doing any thing that presented, or going 
this way or that way, I nerer failed to obey the secret dictate ; 
though I knew no other reason for it than that such u pressure, 
or such a hint, hung upon my mind. I could give many exam- 
ples of the success of this conduct in the course of my life, but 
more especially in the latter part of my inhabiting this unhappy 
island ; besides many occioions which it is very likely I might 
have taken notice of^ if I had seen with the same eyes then that 
i see with now. But it is never too late to be wise ; and I can 
not but advise all considering men, whose lives are attended with 
such extraordinary incidents as mine, or even though not so ex- 
traordinary, not to slight such secret intimations of Providence, 
let them come from what invisible intelligence they will. That 
I shall not discuss, and perhaps cannot account for; butt^rtainly 
they are aproof of the converse of spirits, and a secret communi- 
cation between those embodied and those unembodied, and such 
a proof as can never be withstood ; of which I shall have occa- 
sion to give some very remarkable instances in the Umainder of 
my solitary residence 4n this dismal place. 

I believe the reader of this will not think it strange if I confess 
that these anxieties, these constant dangers I lived in, and the 
concern thsit was now upon me, put an end to all invention, and 
to all the contrivances that I had laid for my future accommo- 
dations and conveniences. I had the core of my safety more 
now upon my hands than that of my food. I cared not to drive 
a nail, or chop a stick of wood now, for fear the noise I might 
make should be heard ; much less would I fire a gun, for the same 
reason : and, above all, I was intolerably uneasy at making any 
fire, lest the smoke, which is visible at a great distance in the 
day, should betray me. For this reason I removed that part of 
my business which required ^rcy such as burning of pots and 
pipes, &c. into my niew apartment in the woods ; where, after I 
had been some time, I found, to my unspeakable consolation, a 
mere natural cave in the earth, which went m a vast way, and 
where, I dare say, no savage, had he been at the mouth of it, would 
be so hardy as to venture in ; nor, indeed, would any man else, 
but on^ who, like me, wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat. 

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great rock, 
where by mere accident (I would say, if I did not see abundant 
reason to ascribe all such things now to Providence) I was cutting 
down some thick branches of trees to make charcoal ; and, before 
I go on, I must observe the reason of my making this charcoal, 
which was thus : I was afraid of making a smoke about my habi- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 140 

tation, as I said before; and yet I could not li\e there without 
baking my bread, cooking my meat, &c. ; so I contrived to bum 
some wood here, as I had seen done in England, under turf, till 
it became chark, or dry coal : and then putting the fire out, I 
preserved the coal to carry home, smd perform the other services 
for which fire was wanting, without danger of smoke. But this 
b by the by: — ^While I was cutting down some wood here, I 
perceived that behind a very thick branch of low brushwood, or 
underwood, there was a kind of hollow place : I was curious to 
4ook in it, and getting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found 
it was pretty large : that is to say, sufficient for me to stand up- 
right in itf and perhaps another with me : but I must confess to 
you that I made more haste out than I did in, when, looking 
farther into the place, and which was perfectly dark, I saw two 
broad shining eyes of some creature, whether devil or man I knew 
not, which twinkled like two stars ; the dim light from the cave's 
mouth shining direcdy in, and making the reflection. However, 
after somei|>ause, I recovered myself, and began to call myself a 
thousand fools, and to think, that he that was afraid to see the 
devil was not fit to live twenty years in an island all alone; and 
that I might well thiuk there w*as nothing in this cave that was 
more frightful than myself. Upon this, plucking up my courage, 
I took up a firebrand, and in I rushed again, with thd stick flam- 
ing in my hand : I had not gone three steps in, but I was almost 
as much frightened as I was before ; for I heard a very loud sigh, 
* like that of a man in some pain, and it was followed by a broken 
noise, as of words half expressed, and then a deep sigh again. X 
stepped back, and was indeed struck with such a surprise, that it 
put me into a cold sweat ; and if I had had a hat on my head, I 
will not answer for it, that my hair might not have lifted it ofl** 
But still plucking up my spirits as well as I could, and encourag- 
ing myself a little with considering that the power and presence oi 
God was every where, and was able to protect me, upon this I 
stepped forward again, and by the light of the firebrand, holding 
it up a Uttle over my head, I saw lying on the ground a most 
monstrous, frightful, old he-goat, just making his will, as we say, 
and gasping for life ; and dying, indeed, of mere old age. 1 
stirred him a little to see if I could get him out, and he essayed 
to get up, but was not able to raise himself; and I thought with' 
myself be might eveu lie there ; for if he had frightened me, so he 
would certainly fright any of the savages, if any of them should 
oe so hardy as to come in there while he had any life in him. 

1 was now recovered from my surprise, and began to look 
siround me, when I found the cave was but very small, that is to 

13* 



Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



•50 ADVKNTURES OF 

say, it might be about twelve feet over, but in no manner o« 
shapOf neither round nor square, no hands having ever been em* 
ployed in making it bat those of mere Nature. I observed also 
that there was a place at the farther side of it that went in further, 
but was so low that it required me to creep upon my hands and 
knees to go into it, and whither it went I knew not : so having no 
candle, I gave it over for that time ; but resolved to come again 
the next day, provided with candles and a tinder-box, which I 
had made of the lock of one of the muskets, with some wildfire 
in the pan. 

Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six large can- 
dles of my own making (for I made very good candies now of 
goat's tallow, but was hard set for candle-wick, using sometimes 
rags or rope-yam, and sometimes the dried rind of a weed like 
nettles) ; and going into this low place, I was obliged to creep 
upon all fours, as I have said, almost ten yards ; which, by the 
way, I thought was a venture bold enough, considering that I 
knew not how far it might go, nor what was beyonffit. Whea 
I had got through the strait, I found the roof rose highw up, I 
believe near twenty feet ; but never was such a glorious sight 
seen in the island, I dare say, as it was, to look round the sides 
and roof of this vault or cave ; the wall reflected a hundred thou- 
sand lights' to me from my two candles. What it was in the 
rock, whether diamonds, or any other precious stones, or gold, 
which I rather supposed it to be, I knew not. The place I was 
in was a most delightfttl cavity or grotto of ite kind, as could be 
expected, though perfectly dark ; the floor was dry and level, and 
had a sort of a small loose gravel upon it, so that there was no 
nauseous or venomous creature to be seen, neither was there any 
damp or wet on the sides or roof: the only difficulty in it was the 
entrance, which, however, as it was a place of security, and such 
a retreat as I wanted, I thought that was a convenience ; so that 
I was really rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved, without any 
delay, to bring some of those things which I was most anxious 
about to this place ; particularly, I resolved to bring hither my 
magazine of powder, and all my spare arms, viz. two fowling- 
pieces, for I had three in all, and three muskets, for of them I 
had eight in all : so I kept at my castle only five, which stood 
ready mounted, like pieces of cannon, on my outmost fence ; and 
were ready also to take out upon any expedition. Upon this 
occasion of removing my ammunition, I happened to open the 
barrel of powder which I took up out of the sea, and which had 
been wet: and I found that the water had penetrated about three 
or four inches into the powder on every side, which, caking an 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



llOBmSOK CRUSOE. 151 

growing liard, iiad preserved the inside like si kernel in^tbe slieU , »o 
tkat I bad near sixty pounds of very good powder in the centre 
of the cask : this was a very agreeable discovery to. me at that 
tiitt« ; »o I earried ail away thti^er, never keeping above two or 
three pounds of powder with me in my castle, for fear of a sur^ 
prise of any kind: I also carried thither all the lead I had left 
fpr bullets^ 

I faneled myself now like one of the ancient giants, which were 
said to Iffre in caves and holes in the rocks, where ucme could 
come at ihem ; for I persuaded myself while 1 was here, that iC 
five hundred savnges.were to hunt me, they could never find^e 
out ; or, if they did, ^ey wouki not venture to attack me here. 
The old goat, whom I found expiring, died in the mouth of the 
cavio the next day after I made this discovery : and I found it 
mueh easier .to dig a great hole there, and throw him in and cover 
him witl^ oarth, than to drag him out; so I interred him there, to 
prevent ol^Miee to my nose. 

I was Q9w in the tiventy-thtrd year of my residence in this 
island^ and was so naturalized to the place, and the manner of 
living, that could I. have but enjoyed the certainty that no 
savages would come to the place to disturb me, I could have been 
content to have capitulated for spending the rest of my time there, 
even to the last moment, till I had laid me down and died, like 
the old goat in the cave. I had also arrived to some little diver- 
sions and amusements, which made the time pass a great deal 
more pleasantly with me than it did before : as, first, 1 had 
taught my Poll, as I noted before, to apeak ; and he did it so 
familiarly, and talked so articulately and plain, that it was very 
pleasant to me ; for I believe no bird ever spoke plainer ; and he 
lived with me no less than six-and-twenty years : how long he 
might have lived afterwards I know not, though I know they 
have a notion in the Brazils that they live a hundred years. My 
dog was a very pleasant and loving companion to me for no less 
than sixteen years of my time, and then died of mere old age. 
As for my cats, they multiplied, as I have observed, to that degree, 
that I was obliged to shoot several of them at first, to keep them 
from devouring me and all I had ; but, at length, when the two 
old ones I brought with me were gone, and after some time con- 
tinually driving them from me, and letting them have no pro- 
vision with me, they all ran wild into the woods, except two or 
three favourites, which I kept tame, and whose young, when 
they had any, I always drowned ; and thesd were part of my 
family. Besides these, I always kept two or three household 
kids about nie, whom I taught to feed out of my hand ; and I had 



Digitized by VjOOQ iC 



f52 ROBIHtOlf CII040B. 

two more parrotTt whkb ta&ed pretty well, and would att call 
Robin Cmsoe, but no&e tike my firvt; nor, indeed did I take the 
pains with any of them that I had done with him. I had also 
several tame eeafowls, whoee names I knew not, diat I canght 
npon thesboret and cat their wmfB; and the little stakes which 
I had planted before my castle waU being now grown up to a 
good thick grove, these fowls all Uvod among these low trees, 
and bred there, whiefa was very agreeable to me; so that, as 1 
said aboTOf I begmi to be very wdl contented with the Hfe I led, 
if I could have been secnred from ihe droad of the savages. Bnt 
it was otherwise directed ; and it may not be amiss for aU people 
who shall meet with my story, to make this just observation from 
it, viz* How frequently, in the course of our lives, the evil which 
m itself we seek most to shun, and which, when we afe faMen into, 
M the most dreadfal to ps, is ofeentimes Uie veory means or doer of 
oar d^v^rance, by which alone we can be raised again from the 
affliction we are faDen into. I could give many examines of this 
in the course of my unaccountable lih ; but in nodring was it 
more pardcuiarly remarkable thui in the circumstances of my 
last years of setttiury vesidenee in Uiis iriaad. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION XX. 

«!N09fl£B VISIT or THE SAVAGES.— 'BOBINBOlT 8BES TRIM I»AN€IK«I.^PEItC£tVCf 

THE WRECK Of* A VE98BL. 

It wdfl now the month of Deeember, as I said above, in my 
twenty-third year; and this, being the southern solstice (foi 
winter I cannot call it), was the particular time of my harvest, 
and required my being pretty much abroad in the fields : when 
going out pretty early in the morning, even before it was thorough 
daylight, I was surprised Yfbh seeing a light of some fire upon the 
shore, at a distance from me of about two miles, towards the end 
of the island where I had observed some savages had been, as 
- before ; and not on the other side, but, to my great affliction, it 
was on my side of the island. 

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped short 
within my grove, not daring to go out, lest I might be surprised; 
and yet I had no more peace within, from the apprehensions I 
had that if these savages, in rambling over the island, should find 
my corn standing or cut, or any of my works and improvements, 
they would immediately conclude that there were people in the 
place, and would then never give over till they had found me 
out. In this extremity, I went back directly to my castle, pulled 
np the ladder after me, and made all things without look as wild 
and natural as I could. 

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture of 
defence : I loaded all my cannon, as I called them, that is to say. 
my muskets, which were mounted upon my new fortification, and 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



f54 ADVENTURES OF 

all my pistols, and resolved to defend myself to the last gasp ; not 
forgetting seriously to commend myself to the Divine protection, 
and earnestly to pray to God to deliver me out of the hands of 
the barbarians. I continued in this posture about two hours; 
and began to be mighty impatient ibr intelligence abroad, for I 
had no spies to send out. After sitting a while longer, and musing 
what I n ignor- 

ance an the hill, 

where i ad then 

pulling anted to 

the top I, which 

I had t£ f on the 

ground, ad there 

were m tnall fire 

they ha of that, 

the weather being extremely hot, but, as I supposed, to dress some of 
their barbarous diet of human flesh, which they had brought with 
them, whether alive or dead I could not tell. 

They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled up 
upon the shore ; and as it was then tide of ebb, they seemed to 
me to wait for the return of the flood to go away again. It is not 
easy to imagine what confusion this sight put me into, especially 
seeing them come on my side of the bland, and so near me too ; 
but when I considered their coming must be always with the cur- 
rent of the ebb, I began, after^vards, to be more sedate in my 
mind, being satisfied that I rrJght go abroad with safety all the 
time of the tide of fiood, if they were not on shore before; and 
having made this observation, I went abroad about my harvest 
work with the more composure. 

As I expected, so it proved ; for as soon as the tide made to the 
westward, I saw them all take boat, and row (or paddle, as we 
call it) away. I should have observed, that for an hour or more 
before they went 06", they went a dancing ; and I could easily dis 
cern their postures and gestures by my glass. I could not per- 
ceive, by my nicest observation, but that they were stark naked 
and had not the least covering upon them ; but whether they were 
men or women, I could not distinguish. 

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two guns 
upon my shoulders, and two pistols in my girdle, and my great 
sword by my side, without a scabbard, and with all the speed I 
was able to make, went away to the hill where I had discovered 
the first appearance of all ; and as soon aa I got thither, which 
was not in less than two hours, I perceived there had been three 
canoes more of savages at that place ; and looking out farther, I 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRU»)£. 155 

taw they were all at sea together, making over for the main. 
This waj9 a dreadful sight to me, especially as, going down to the 
shore, I could see the marks of horror, which the dismal work 
they had been about had left behind it, viz. the blood, the bones, 
and part of the fleslf, of human bodies, eaten and devoured by 
those wretches widi merriment and sport. I was so filled ivith 
indignation at the sight, that I now began to premeditate the 
destruction of the next that I saw there, let them be whom or 
how many soever. It seemed evident to me that the visits 
which they made thus to this island were not very frequent, for 
it was above fifteen months before any more of them came on 
shore there again ; that is to say, I neither saw them, nor any 
footsteps or signals of them, in all that time ; for, as to the rainy 
seasons, then they are sure not to come abroad, at least not so 
far : yet all this while I lived uncomfortably, by reason of the 
constant apprehensions of their coming upon me by surprise: 
from whence I observe, that the expectation of evil is more bitter 
than the suffering, especially if there is no room to shake off that 
expectation, or those apprehensions. 

During all this time I was in the m^rdering humour, and took 
up most of my hours, which should have been better employed, 
in contriving how to circumvent and fall upon them, the very 
next time I should see them ; especially if they should be divided, 
as they were the last time, into two parties : nor did I consider 
at all, that if I killed one party, suppose ten or a dozen, I was 
Still the next day, or week, or month, to kill another, and so 
another, even ad infinitum, till I should be at length no less a 
murderer than they were in beifig man-eaters, and perhaps much 
more so. I spent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety 
of mind, expecting that I should, one day or other, fall into the 
hands of these merciless creatures ; and if I did at any time ven- 
ture abroad, it was not without looking round me with the 
greatest care and caution imaginable. And now I found, to my 
great comfort, how happy it was that I provided for a tame flock 
or herd of goats ; for I durst not, upon any account, fire my gun, 
especially near that side of the island where they usually came, lest 
I should alarm the savages ; and if they had fled from me now, I 
was sure to have them come again, with perhaps two or three 
hundred canoes with them, in a few days, and then I knew what 
to expect. However, I wore out a year and three months more 
before I ever saw any more of the savages, and then I found 
them again, as I shall soon observe. It is true, they might have 
been there once or twice, but either they made no stay, or at least 
r did not see them : but in the month of May, as near as T could 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



156 ADVEIVTURES OF 

calculate, and in my four-and-twentieth year, I had a very strangt 
encounter with them ; of which in it9 place. 

The perturbadon of my mind, during this fifteen or sixteen 
months interval, was very great ; I slept unquiet, dreamed alwavs 
frightful dreams, and often started out of my sleep in the night: 
in the day, great troubles overwhelmed my mind; and in the 
night, I dreamed often of killing the savages, and of the reasons 
why I might justify the doing of it. But, to waive n'i this for a 
while. It was in the middle of May, on the sixteenth day, I 
&ink, as well as my poor wooden calendar would reckon, for I 
marked all upon the post still ; 1 say, it was on the sixteenth of 
May that it blew a very great storm of wind all day, with a great 
deal of lightning and thunder, and a very foul night it was after 
it. I knew not what was the particular occasion of it, but as I 
was reading in the Bible, and taken up with very serious thoughts 
about my present condition, I was sm'prbed with the noise of a 
gun, as I thought, fired at sea. This was, to be sure, a surprise 
quite of a different nature from any I had met with before ; for 
the notions this put into my thoughts were quite of another kind. 
I started up in the greatest haste imaginable, and, in a trice, 
clapped my ladder to the middle place of the rock, and pulled it 
after me ; and mounting it the second time, got to the top of the 
bill the very n^ment that a flash of fire bid me listen for a second 
gun, which accordingly, in about half a minute, I heard ; and, by 
the sound, knew that it was firom that part of the sea where J 
was driven down the current in my boat. I immediately con- 
sidered that this must be some ship in distress, and that they had 
some comrade, or some other ship in company, and fired these 
§uns for signals of distress, and to obtain help. I had the pre- 
sence of mind, at that minute, to think, that though I could not 
help them, it might be they might help me : so I brought together, 
all the dry wood I could get at hand> and making a good hand 
some pile, I set it on fire upon the hill. The wood was dry, and 
blazed freely; and though the wind blew very hard, yet it bum 
fairly out ; so that I was certain, if there was any such thing as a 
ship, they must needs see it ; and no doubt they did ; for as soon 
as ever my fire blazed up I heard another gun, and after that 
several otlMrs, all from the same quarter. I plied my fire all 
night long, till daybreak r and when it was broad day, and the 
air cleared up, I saw something at a great distance at sea, full 
east of the island, whether a sail or a hull I could not dis- 
tinguish, no, not with my glass ; the distance was so great, and 
the weather still somediing hazy also ; at least, it was so out 
at sea. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRrSOE. 157 

I looked frequently at it iill that day, and soon perceired that 
it did not nM)ve ; so I presently concluded that it was a ship at 
anchor; and being eager, you may bo sure, to be satisfied, I 
took my gun in my hand, and ran towards the south side of the 
island, to the rocks tvhere I had formerly been carried away 
with the current ; and getting up there, the weather by this time 
beiog perfectly clear, I cquld plainly see, to my great sorrow, 
the wreck of a ship, cast away in the night upon those concealed 
rocks which I found when I was out in my boat; and which 
rocks, as they checked the violence of the stream, and made a 
kind of counter-stream, or eddy, were the occasion of my re- 
covering from the most desperate, hopeless condition that ever I 
had been in, all my life. Thus, what is one man's safety is 
another man's destruction ; for it seems these men, whoever they 
were, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks being wholly 
under water, had been driven upon them in the night, the wind 
blowing hard at £* N. E. Had they seen the island, as I must 
necessarily suppose they did not, they must, as I thought, have 
endeavoured to have saved themselves on shore by the help of 
their boat ; but their firing off guns for help, especially when they 
saw, as I imagined, my fire, filled me with many thoughts : First, 
I imagined that upon seeing my light, they might have put them- 
selves into their boat, and endeavoured to make the shore ; but 
that the sea going very high, they might have been cast away : 
other times I imagined that they might have lost their boat before, 
as might be the case many ways ; as, particularly, by the break- 
ing of the sea upon their ship, which many times obliges men to 
Btave, or take in pieces, their boat, and sometimes to throw it 
overboard with iheir own hands : other times I imagined they 
had some other ship or ships in company, who, upon the signals 
of distress they had made, had taken them up and carried them 
off: other times I fancied they were all gone off to sea in their 
boat, and being hurrieil away by the current that I had been 
formerly in, were carried out into the great ocean, where there 
was nothing but misery and perishing ; and that, perhaps, they 
might by this time be starving, and. in a condition to think of 
editing 'One another. 

As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in the condition 
I was in, I could do no more than look upon the misery of the 
poor men, and pity them ; which had still this good effect on my 
side, that it gave me more and more cause to give thanks to God, 
who had so happily and comfortably provided for me in my deso- 
late condition; and that of two ships* companies who were now 
cast away upon thb part of the world, not one life should bu 

14 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



£58 ROBINSOn CRUSOE. 

spared but mine. 1 learaed here again to observe, that it is very 
rare that the providence of God casts us into any condition of life 
6o low, or any misery so great, but we may see something or other 
eo be thankful for, and may see others in worse circumstances 
than our own. Such certainly was the case of these men, of 
f^hom I could not so much as see room to suppose any of them 
were saved ; nothing could make it rational so much as to wish 
or expect that they did not all perish there, except the possibility 
only of tneir being taken up by another ship in company; and 
this was but mere possibility indeed, for I saw not the least sign 
or appearance of any such thing. I cannot explain, by any 
possible energy of words, what a strange longing or hankering ol 
desires I felt in my soul upon this sight, breaiking out sometimes 
thus : O that there had been but one or two, nay, or but one soul, 
saved out of this ship, to have escaped to me, that I might bu( 
have had one companion, one fellow creature to have spoken to 
me, and to have conversed with ! In all the time of my Koiitary 
Kfe, I never felt so earnest, so strong a desire after the society o 
my fellow creatores, or so deep a regret at the wast of ix. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION XXL 

HE VISITS THE WSECK AND OBTAn^l^ MAKY STOBES FROM IT. — AGAIN THIJOTS 
OF QUITTING THE I8LAN0.^-4IAa A fiEMABKABLB DBEAM. 

There are some secret moving springs in the affections, which, 
■ when they are set agoing by some object in view, or, though not 
in view, yet rendered present to the mind by the power of 
imagination, that motion carries out the soul, by its impetuosity, 
to such violent, eager embracings of the object, that the absence 
of it is insupportable. Such were these earnest wishings that 
but one man had been saved. I believe I repeated the words. O 
that it had been but one ! a thousand times ; and my desires were 
80 moved by it, that when I spoke the words my hands would 
clinch together, and my fingers would press the palms of my 
hands, so that if I had had any soft thing in my hand, it would 
have crushed it involuntarily ; and the teeth in my head would 
strike together, and set against one another so strong, that for 
some time I could not part them again. Let the naturalists ex- 
plain these things, and the reason and manner of them : all I can 
say to them is, to describe the fact, which was even surprising to 
me, when I found it, though I knew not from whence it pro- 
ceeded : it was doubtless the effect of ardent wishes, and of strong 
ideas formed in my mind, realizing the comfort which the con- 
versation of one of my fellow Christians would have been to me. 
But it was not to be ; either their fate or mine, or both, forbade 
it : for, till the last year of my being on this island, I never knew 
witether any were i^aved out of that ship or no ; and had only tho 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



150 ADVERTUaeS ov 

ufflicdon, some days after, to see the corpse of a drowoed boy 
come on shore at tks end of the ishmd which vma next the ship- 
wreck. He had no clothes on bnt a seaman's waistcoat, a pair 
of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt ; but nothing 
to direct me so much as to guess what nation he was of: he had 
nothing iu his pockets but two pieces of eight and a tobacco- 
pipe ; — the last was to me of ten times more value than the first. 

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in my 
boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might find something on 
board that might be useful to me : but that did not altogether 
press me so much as the possibility th^t there might be yet some 
living creature oa board, whose life I m%ht not only save, but 
might, by saving that life, comfort my own to the kst degree : 
and thb thought clung so to my heart, that I could not be quiet 
night or day, but I must venture out in ray boat on board this 
wreck ; and committing the rest to God*s providence, I thought 
the impression was so strong upon my mind that it could not be 
resisted, that it must come from some invisible direction, and that 
I should be wanting to myself if I did not go. 

Under the power of this impression, 1 hastened back to my 
castle, prepared every thing for my voyage, took a quantity of 
bread, a great pot of fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bottle 
of rum (for I had still a great deal of that left), and a basket of 
raisins : and thus, loading myself with every thing necessary, I 
went down to my boat, got the water out of her, put her afloat, 
loaded all my cargo in her, and then went home again for more. 
My second cargo was a great bag of rice, the umbrella to set up 
over my head for a shade, another large pot of fresh water, and 
about two dozen of my small loaves, or barley-cakes, more than 
before, with a bottle of goat's milk and a cheese ; all which, with 
great labour and sweat, I carried to my boat ; and praying to 
God to direct my voyage, I put out ; and rowing, or paddling, 
the canoe along the shore, came at last to the utmost point of the 
island on the north-east side. And now I was to launch out into 
the ocean, and either to venture or not to venture. I looked on 
the rapid currents which ran constantly on both sides of the island 
at a distance, and which were very terrible to me, from the re- 
membrance of the hazard I had been in before, and my heart 
began to fail me ; for I foresaw that if I was driven into either of 
thpse currents, I should be carried a great way out to sea, and per- 
haps out of my reach, or sight of the island again ; and that then, 
as my boat was but small, if any little gale of wind should rise, 1 
should be inevitably lost. 

These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began to give 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



KOBIKSOII CRUSOE. 161 

flirer mj enterprise ; and having hauled my oeat into a little creek 
on the. shore, I stepped out, and sat me down upon a rising bit 
of ground, very pensive and anxious, between fear and desire, 
about my voyage ; when, as I was musing, I eeuid perceive that 
the tide was turned, and the flood came on ; upon which my 
going was impracticable for so many hours. Upon this, pre- 
sently it occurred to me, that I should go up to the highest piece 
of ground I conld find, and obBerve, if I could, how the sets oi 
the tide, or currents, lay when the flood came in, that I might 
judge whether, if I was driven one way out, I might not expect 
to be driven another way home, with the same rapid oess of the 
currents. This thought was no sooner in my head than I cast my 
eye upon a little hillt which sufficiently overlooked the sea both 
ways, and from whence I had a clear view of the currents, or sets of 
the tide, and which way I was to guide myself in my return. 
Here I found, that as the eunrent of the ebb set out close by the 
south point of the island, so the current of the flood set in f lose 
by the shore of the north side ; and that I had. nothing to do but 
to keep to the north side of the island in ray return, and I should 
do weU enott^. 

£ncouraged with this observation, I resolved, the next morn- 
ing, to set out with the first of the tide ; and reposing myself for 
the night in my canoe, under the great watchcoat I mentioned, 
I launched out. I first made a little out to sea, full north, till I 
began to feel the benefit of the current, which set eastward, and 
which canried me ^ a great rate ; and yet did not so hurry me as 
the current on the south side had done before, so as to take from 
me all government of the boat ; b»t having a strong steerage with 
my paddle, I went at a great rate directly for tHe wreck, and in 
less than two hours I came up to it. It was a dismal sight to 
look at: the ship, which, by its building, was Spanish, stuck 
fast. Jammed in between two rocks ; all the stem and quarter of 
her were becUen to pieces with the sea ; and as her forecastle, 
which stuck in the rocks, had run on with great violence, her 
mainmast and foremast were brought by the board, that is to say, 
broken short ofl"; but her bowsprit was sound, and the head and 
bow appeared firm. When I came close to her, a dog appeared 
upon her, who, seeing me coming, yelped and cried; and as 
soon as I called him, jumped into the sea to come to me ; I took 
him into the boat, but found him almost dead with hunger and 
thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread, and be devoured it like a 
ravenous wolf that had been starving a fortnight in the snow : I 
then gave the poor creature some fresh water, wilh which, if 1 
would have let hinu he would have burst himself. After this, 1 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



163 AOTSirrnRCS or 

iveut OB board; bat the first sight I met with was two meir 
drowned in the cook-room, or forecastle of the ship, with theb 
arms fast about oqe another. I concluded, as is indeed probable 
that when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea broke sc 
high, and so continuall;^ over her, that the men were not able to 
bear it, and were stranglecT whh the constant rushing in of the 
water, as much as if they had been under water. Besides the 
dog, there was nothing left in the ship that had life ; nor an; 
goods, that I could see, but what were spoiled by the water. 
There were some casks of liquor, whether wine or brandy 1 
knew not, which lay lower in the hold, and which, the water 
being ebbed out, I could see ; but they were too big to meddle 
with. I saw several chests, which I believed belonged to sotee 
of the seaaien; and I got two of them into the boat, without 
examining what was in them. Had the stem of the ship been 
fixed, and the forepart broken off, I am persuaded I might have 
made a good voyage ; lor, by what I found in these two chests, I 
had room to suppose the fehip had a great deal of wealth on 
board: and, if I may guess firom the course she steered, she must 
have been bound from Buenos Ayres, or die Rio de la Plata, in 
the south part of America, beyond the^ Brazils, to the Havauna, in 
the Gulf of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain. She had, no doubt, 
a great treasure in hcnr, but of no use, at that time, to any body ; 
and what became of her crew, I then knew not. 

I found, besides these chests, a litde cask ftill of liquor, of 
about twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with much diffi- 
culty. There were several muskets in the cabin, and a great 
powder-horn, with about four pounds of powder in h; as for the 
muskets, I had no occasion for them, so I left them, but took the 
powder-horn. I took a fire-shovel and tongs, which I wanted 
extremely ; as also two little brass kettles, a copper pot to mak« 
chocolate, and a gridiron : and with this cargo, and the dog, 1 
came away, the tide beginning to make home again; and the 
same evening, about an hour within night, I reached the island 
again, weary and fatigued to the last degree. I reposed thai 
night in the boat ; and in the morning I resolved to harbour what 
I had got in my new cave, and not carry it home to my castle. 
After refreshing m^'self, I got all my cargo on shore, and begsm 
to examine the particulars. The cask of liquor I found to be a 
kind of rum, but not such as we had at the Brazite, and, in a 
word, not at all good ; but when I came to open the chests, 1 
found several things of great use to me ; for ex&mple, I found io 
one a fine case of bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and filled witl 
cordial waters, fine and very good \ the bottles held about tfaret 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBiicsoif cmusox. loo 

pints eacb, and w^re tipped wkh silrer. I found two pots of 
Teiy good succedes, or sweetmeats, so fasteued also oa the top, 
that the salt water had not hnrt them ; and two more of the 
same, which the water had spoMed. I found some very good • 
shirts, which were very welcome to me ; and about a dozen and 
a lialf of white linen handkerchiefe and coloured neckcloths ; the 
former were also very welcome, being exceeding refreshing to 
wipe my face in a hot day. Besides this, when I came to the till 
in the chest, I found there three great bags of pieces of eight, 
which held about eleyen hundred pieces in all; and in one of 
them, wrapped up in a paper, six doubloons of gold, and some 
small bars or wedges of gold ; I suppose they might aU weigh 
near a pounds In the other chest were some clothes, but of little 
value ; but, by the circumstances, it must have belonged to the 
gunner's mate ; though there was no powder in it, except twe 
pounds of fine glazed powder, in three nnall flasks, kept, I sup- 
pose, for charging their fowling-pieces on occasion. Upon the 
whole, I got very little by this voyage that was of any use to me ; 
for, as to the money, I had no manner of occasion for it ; it was 
to me as the dirt under my feet; and I would have given it all 
for three or four pair of English shoes and stockings, which were 
things I greatly wanted, but had none on my feet for many years. 
I had. indeed got two pair of shoes now, which I took off the foet 
of the two drowned men whom 1 saw in the wreck, and I found 
two pair more in one of the chests, which were very welcome 
to me ; but they were not ^ke our English shoes, either for ease 
or service, being rather what we call pumps than shoes. 1 found 
in this seaman*s chest about fifty pieces of eight in rials, but no 
gold ; I suppose this belonged to a poorer man than the other, 
which seemed to belong to some officer. Well, however, I 
lugged this money home to my^ cave, and laid it up, as I had 
done that before which I brought from our own ship : but it was 
a great pity, as I said, that the other part of this ship had not 
eome to my share ; for I am satisfied I might have loaded my 
canoe several times over with money ; and, thought I, if I ever 
escape to England, it might lie here safe enough till I may come 
again and fetch it. 

Having now brought all my things on shore, and secured them, 
I went back to my boat, and rowed or paddled her along the 
' shore to her old harbour, where I laid her up, and made the best 
of my way to my old habitation, where I found every thing safe 
and quiet. I began now to repose myself, live after my old 
fashion, and take care of my family affairs ; and, for a while, 1 
lived easy enough, only that I was more vigilant than I used to 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



t5i ADVENTURCt OP 

be, looked out oftener, and did not go abroad so much ; and if at 
any time I did stir with any freedom, it was always to the east 
part of the island, where I was pretty well satisfied the savages 
never came, and where I could go without so many precautions, 
aad such a load of arms and ammunition as I always carried 
with me if I went the other way. I lived in this condition near 
two years more ; but my imhicky head, that was always to let 
me know it was bom to make my body miserable, was all these 
two years filled with projects and designs, how, if it were possi- 
ble, I might get away fiom this island : for sometimes I was for 
making another voyage to the wreck, though my reason told me 
that there was nothing left there worth the hazard of my voyage; 
sometimes for a ramble one way, sometimes another ; and I be- 
lieve verily, if I had had the boat that I went from Sallee in, I 
should have ventured to sea, bound any where, I knew not 
whither. I have been, in all my circumstances, a metMnto to 
those who are touched with the general plague of mankind, 
whence, for aught I know, one half of their miseries flow ; I 
mean that of not being satisfied with the station wherein God 
and nature hath placed them : for, not to look back upon my 
primitive condition, and the excellent advice of my. father, the 
opposition to which was, as I may call it, my original sin, my 
subsequent mistakes of the same kind had been the means of my 
coming into this miserable condition ; for had that Providence, 
which so happily seated me at the Brazils as a planter, blessed 
me with confined desires, and I could have been contentoii to 
have gone on gradually, I might have been, by this time, I mean 
in the time of my being in this island, one of the most consider- 
able planters in the Brazils ; nay, I am persuaded, that by the 
improvements I had made in that littie time I lived there, and 
the increase I should probably have made if I had remained, I 
might have been worth a hundred thousand moidores : and what 
business had I to leave a settled fortune, a well-stocked plan- 
tation, improving and increasing, to turn supercargo to Guinea 
to fetch Negroes, when patience and time would have so increased 
our stock at home, that we could have bought them at our own 
door from those whose business it was to fetch them ; and though 
it" had cost us sometiiing more, yet the difference of that price 
was by no means worth saving at so great a hazard ! But as 
this is usually the fate of young heads, so reflection upon the 
folly of it is as commonly the exercise of more years, or of the 
dear-bought experience of time : so it was with me now ; and 
yet so deep had the mistake taken root in my temper, that I 
could not satisfy myself in my station, but was continually por« 



Digitized 



by Google 



EOBIIfSOU C&U80X. 165 

iog Qpon tke meaiis and possibility of my escapo from this place : 
and that I may, with the greater pleasure to the reader, bring 
on tiie remaining part of my story, it may not be improper to 
give some account of my first conceptions on the subject of this 
foolish scheme for my escape, and how, and upon what founda- 
tion, I acted. 

I am now to be supposed retired into my castle, after my late 
voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up and secured under water, 
as usual, and my eondidon restored to what it was hefwe ; I had 
more wealth, indeed, than I had before, but was not at all the 
richer *, for I had no more use for it than the Indians of Peru had 
before the Spaniards came there. 

It was one of the nights in the rainy season in March, the four- 
and- twentieth year of my first setting foot in this island of soli- 
tude, I was lying in my bed, or hammock, awake ; very well in 
health, had no pain, no distemper, no uneasiness of body, nor 
any uneasiness of mind, more than ordinary, f>ut could by no 
means close my eyes, that is> so as to sleep ; no, not a wink all 
ntght long, otherwise than as follows :^It is impossible to set 
down the innumerable crowd of thoughts that whirled through 
that great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory, in this night's 
time : I ran over the whole history of my life in miniature, or by 
abridgement, as I may call it, to my coming to this island, aud 
also of that part of my life since I came to this island. In my re- 
fiections upon the state of my case sinee I came on shore on this 
island, I was comparing the happy posture of my affairs in the 
first years of my habitation here, compared to the life of anxiety, 
fear, and care, which I had lived in, ever since I had seen the 
print of a foot in the sand ; not that I did not believe the savages . 
had frequented the island even all the while, and might have 
been several hundreds of them at times on shore ^re ; but I had 
never known it, and was incapable of any apprehensions about 
it ; my satisfaction was perfect, though my danger was the same, 
and I was as happy in not knowing my danger as if I had never 
really been exposed to it. This f\imished my thoughts with many 
very profitable reflections, and particularly this one: How in- 
finitely good that Providence is, which has provided in its govern- 
ment of mankind, such narrow bounds to his sight and knowledge 
of things ; and though he walks in the midst of so many thousand 
dangers, the sight of which, if discovered to him, would distract 
bis mind and sink his spirits, he is kept serene and calm, by 
having the events of things hid from his eyes, and knowing 
nothing of the dangers which surround him. 

After these thoughts had for some time entertained me, I came 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



t66 Adventures or 

to reflect ferloasly upon the real danger I bad been in fbr se 
many years in thb bland, and hour I had walked about in the 
greatest security, and with all possible tranquillity, even when 
perhaps nothing but the brow of a hill, a great tree, or tht casual 
appraach o( night, had been between me and the i^orst kind of 
destruction, viz. that of falling into the hands of cannibals and 
savages, who would have seized on me with the same view as I 
would en a goat <n- a turtle, and have thought it no more a crime 
to kill and devour me, than I did a pigeon or curlew. I would 
iiujustly slander myself, if I should say I was not sincerely thank- 
ful to my i^reat Preserver, to whose eingular protection I acknow- 
ledged, with great hunoility, all these unknown deliverances were 
due, and without ndiich I must inevitebly have faliea into their 
merciless hands. 

When these thoughts were over, my head was for some time 
taken up in considering the nature of these wretched creatures, I 
mean the savagea, and how it came to pass in the world, that the 
wise Governor of all things should give up any of his creatures 
to such inhumanity, nay, to something se much below even 
brutality itself, as to devour its own kind : but as this ended in 
some (at that time) fruitless speculations, it occurred to me to 
iuqaire what part of the world these wretches lived in ? how far 
ofif the coast was from whence they came ? what they ventured 
over so far from home for ? what kind of boats they had ? and 
why I might not order myself and my business so, that I might 
be able to go over thither as they were to come to me. 

I never so much as troubled myself to consider what I should 
do with myself when I went thither; what would become of me, 
if I fell into the hands of the savages ; or how I should escape 
from them, if they attacked me ; no, nor so much as how it was 
possible for me to reach the coast, and not be attacked by some 
or other of them, without any possibility of delivering myself; 
and if I should not fall into their hands, what I should do for pro- 
vision, or whither I should bend my course : none of these 
thoughts, I say, so much as came in my way ; but my mhid was 
wholly bent upon the notion of my passing over in my boat to 
the main land. I looked upon my present condition as the most 
miserable that could possibly be ; that I was not able to throw 
myself into any thing, but death, that could be called worse ; and 
if I reached the shore of the main, I might perhaps meet with re- 
lief, or I might coast along, as I did on the African shore, till I 
came to some inhabited country, and where I might find some 
relief; and after all, perhaps, I might fall in with some Christilui 
ship that might take me in ; and if the worst came to the worst. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



mOBlNSOlf CEU80E. 167 

I could but die, which would put an end to all these miseries at 
o)»ce. Pray note, all thb was the fjmit of a disturbed mind, au 
impatient temper, made desperate, as it were, by the long con- 
tinuance of my troubles, and the disappointments I had met in 
the wreck I had been on board of, and where I had been so near 
obtaining what I so earnestly longed for, viz. somebody to speak 
to, and to learn some knowledge from them of the place where 1 
was, and of the probable means of my deliverance. I was agi- 
tated wholly by these thoughts ; all my calm of mind, in my re- 
signation to Providence, and waiting the issue of the dispositions 
of Heaven, seemed to be suspended ; and I had, as it were, no 
power to turn my thoughts to any thing but to the project of a 
voyage (o the main ; which came upon me with such force, and 
such an impetuosity of desire, that it was not be resisted. 

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or more, 
ivith such violence that it set my very blood into a ferment, and 
my pulse beat as if I had been in a fever, merely with the extra- 
ordinary fervour of my mind about it, nature, as if I had been 
fatigued and exhausted with the very thought of it, threw me into 
a sound sleep. One would have thought 1 should have dreamed 
of it, but I did not, nor of any thing relating to it : but I dreamed 
that as I was going out in the morning, as usual, from ray castle, 
I saw upon the shore two canoes and eleven savages coming to 
land, and that they brought with them another savage, whom 
they we're going to kill, in order to eat him ; when, on a sudden, 
the savage that they were going to kill jumped away, and ran for 
his life ; and I thought, in my sleep, that he came running into 
ray little thick grove before my fortification, to hide himself; and 
that I, seeing him alone, and not perceiving that the others sought 
him that way, showed myself to him, and smiling upon him, 
encouraged him : that he kneeled down to me, seeming to pray 
me to assist him ; upon which I showed him my ladder, made 
him go up, and carried him into my cave, and he became my 
servant : and that as soon as I had got this ma% I said to myself, 
•Now I may certainly venture to the main land ; for this fellow 
will serve me as a pilot, and will tell me what to do, and whither 
to go for provisions, and whither not to go for fear of being 
devoured; what places to venture into, and what to shun, I 
waked with this thought : and was under such inexpressible im- 
pressions of joy at the prospsct of my escape in my dream, that tho 
disappointments which I felt upon coming to inyself, and finding 
thai it was no more than a dream, were equally extravagant tho 
wther way, and threw me into a very great dejection of spirits. 

Upon this, however, I made this conclusion ; that my only vray 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



168 ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

to go about to attempt an escape waa« if posnble, te get a lavfige 
into my poiaesaion ; and, if possible, it should bo one of their pri- 
soners whom they had condemned to be eaten, and should bring 
hither to kill. But these thoughts still were attended with this 
difficulty, that it was impossible to effisct this without attacking a 
whole caravan of them, and killing them all ; and this was not 
only a very desperate attempt and might miscarry, but, on the 
other hand, I had greatly scrupled the lawfulness x>f it to myself; 
and my heart trembled at the thoughts of shedding so much blood, 
though it was for my deliverance. I need not repeat the argu- 
ments which occurred to me against this, they being the sam» 
mentioned before : but thongb I had other reasons to offer now 
viz. that those men were enemies to my life, and would devou* 
me if they could ; that it was self-preservation, in the highest de 
gree, to deliver myself from this death of a life, and was acthig 
in my own defence as much as if they were actually assaulting 
me, and the like ; I say, though these things argued for it, yet the 
thoughts of shedding human blood for my delivenmce were very 
terrible to me, and suoh as I could by no means reconcile myself 
to for a great while. However, at last, after many secret disputes 
with myself, and after a great many perplexities about it <fer all 
these arguments, one way and iuu)tber, struggled in my head a 
loug time), the eager prevailing desire of deliverance at length 
mastered all the rest; and I resolved^ if possible, to get one ot 
those savages into my hands, cost what it would. My next thing 
was to contrive how to do it, and this indeed was very difficult to 
resolve on : but as I could pitch upon no probable means for it, so 
1 resolveo to put myself upon the watch, to see them when they 
came on shore, and leave the rest to the event ; taking such mea- 
sures as the opportunity should present, let what would be. 

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself upon the 
scout as often as possible, and indeed so often, that I was heartily 
tired of it ; for it was above a year and a half that I waited ; and 
for great part <^ that time went out to the west end, and to the 
south-west corner, of the island, almost every day to look for 
canoes, but none appeared. This was very discouraging, and 
began to trouble me much ; though I cannot say that it did in this 
case (as it had done some time before) wear off the edge of my 
desire to the thing ; but the longer it seemed to be delayed, the 
more eager I was for it : in a word, I was not at first so careful 
to shuo the sight of these savages, and avoid being being seen by 
them, as I was now eager to be upon them. I pleased myself 
with this affair a great while ; but all my fancies and schemes can^ 
to nothing, for no savages came near me for a great while. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION XXII. 

fteii««mi K««eims om or nriift oaptii^« fkom vrb ■ataocs, wbok 
■« MUfSfl FftllUT, aub makss K|S sbbvaht. 

About a year and a half after I entertained these notions 
(and by long musing had, as it were, resolved them all into 
nothing, for want of an occasion to put them into execution), I 
was surprised one morning early with seeing no less than five 
canoes all on shore together on my side of the is^nd, and the 
people who belonged to them all landed, and out of my sight 
The number of them broke all my measiires ; for seeing so many, 
and knowing that they always came four or six, or sometimes 
more, in a boat, I could not tell what to think of it, or how to 
take my measures, to attack twenty or thirty men single-handed ; 
80 lay still in my castle, perplexed and discomforted : however, 
I put myself into all the same postures for an attack that I had 
formerly provided, and was just ready for action, if any thing 
had presented. Having waited a good while, listening to hear if 
they made any noise, at lengUi, being very impatient, I set my 
guns at the foot of my ladder, and clambered up to the top of the 
hill, by my two stages, as usual ; standing so, however, that my 
head did not appear above the hill, so that they could not per- 
ceive me by any means. Here I observed, by the help of my 
perspective glass, that they were no less than thirty in number; 
that they had a fire kindled, and that they had meat dressed. 
How they had cooked it I knew not, or what it was ; but they 

15 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



170 ADVENTURES OP 

were all daneing, in I know not*how many barbaroos gestorea and 
figures, their own way, round the ^. . 

^WJ&ile I was thus tooidng on them, I perceived, by my per- 
apeetiTe, 
it seems, 
slaughter 
knocked 
that was 
diately, < 
victim w 
him. In 
litde at ] 
life, and 
swiftness 
that part 
frightens 
way, and 

the whole body : and now I expected that part of my dream 
was coming to pass, and tftat he would certainly take shelter in 
my grore : hul I •oM nei d^[ksiid» by any wtisp w§m «r 
dream for tbe test c^ it, vk. Hiat the oOier Memoes would not 
pursue him thither, and find him there. However, I. kept 4 my 
station, and my spirits began to recover, when I found that there 
was not above three men that fbUowed him; and still more wa3 
I encouraged when I found that he outstripped them exceed- 
ingly in running, and gained ground of them ; so that if he could 
but hold it for half an houf , I saw e^ily he would fairly get away' 
from them all. 

There was between them and my castle the creek, which I 
mentioned often in the first part of my story, where I landed my 
cargoes out of the ship; and this I saw plainly he must neces* 
sarily swim over, or the poor wretch would be taken there : but 
when the savage escaping came thither, he made nothing of it| 
though the tide was then up ; but plunging in, swam through in 
about thirty strokes, or thereabouts, knded, and ran on with 
exceeding strength and swiftness. When the three persons came 
to the creek, I found that two of them could swim, but the third 
could not, and that, standing on the other side, he looked at the 
others, but went no &rther, and soon after went softly back 
ags^; Mrhichf as it happened, was very well for him in the end. 
I observed di»t the two who swam were yet more than twice as 
long swimming over the creek as the fellow was that fled from 
Ithem. It came now very warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed 
irresisdbly, that now was the time to get me a servant, and per- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBIlflfOK CRUSOE. ! 71 

hspB a coBipoiiie& of aanstan^ and ^at I was called plainl^r t>y 
Pitivideiiee to aaTe this poor creature's Ufe. I inmie£atelj r4ii 
down tile ladders with all possible expedition, fetched my two 
gtms, fbr thej were both at the foot of the ladders, as I obsanred 
above, and getting up again, with the same haste, to the top of 
ihe liiH, I crossed toward tJie sea, and having a very short cut, 
and all down hill, placed myself in the way between the pursuers 
and ^e pnrsoed, holloing aloud to him that fled, who lookinft 
back, was at first, perhaps, as much frightened at me as at them; 
bat I beckoned with my hand to him to come back ; and in the 
mean time, I dowly advanced towards the two that Allowed; 
then nulling at once upon the foremost, I knocked him down 
with tiie stock of my piece. I was loath to fire, because I would 
not )iave ihe rest hear; though, at that distance, it would not 
have been easily heard, and being out of sight oi the smoke too, 
tiiey would not have easily known whaf to make of it. Having 
knocked ^is ftUow down, the other who pursued him stopped, 
as if he had been fri^tened, and I advanced apace towards him : 
but as I came nearer, I perceived presently he had a bow and 
anow, and was iRting it to ejtoot at me ; so I was then neces- 
sitated to riioot at him first, which I did, and kffied him at the 
first ^t. The poor savage ^o fied but had stopped, though he 
saw both his enemies fiiUen and killed, as he thought, yet was so 
frightened with the fire and noise of my piece, that he stood stock- 
Slill, and neither came forward nor went backward, though he 
seemed rather inclined still to fly, tinn to come on. I h<^oed 
again to him, and made signs to come forward, which he easily 
understood, and came a little way ; then stopped again, and then 
a little farther, and stopped again; and I could then perceive 
tiiat he stood trembling, as if he had been taken prisoner, and 
had just been lo be kilied, as his two enemies were. I beckoned 
to him again to come to me, and gave him nSL the signs of 
encouragement that I oould tiiiidc of: and he eame nearer and 
nearer, kneeHng down every ten or twdve steps, in tc^en of ac- 
knowledgment for saving ys life. I smHed at him, and looked 
pleasantly, and beckoned tb him to come still nearer : at leng&i 
he eame close io me; and then he kneeled down again, kissed 
tiie ground, and laid his head upon the g^round, taking me by the 
Ibot, set my loot iqion his l^ad; this, it seems, was in token of 
sweahag to be my slave for ever. I took him up, and made 
much of hiiii, and OBeown^ged hkn all I could. But there was 
more work to do yet; I perceived the savage whom I knocked 
down was not kilbd, but stimned with the Mow, and began to 
to himself: so I pointed to him, and showed him the 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



172 ADVEJITUEES OF 

iWTage, Ui»t he wm not doad; ap«ii tto he i^tAe M^ie w<Mi 
to mOt and thou^ I could not understand them, yet I diought 
-Uiey were pleasant to hear ;, fi^: they were, the .tot soond of ^ 
loaaa's moe that I had lieard, my ow« esccepted^ io^ above 
twenty-five yeara. But there was no time for such refiecticms 
now; the aava^ who wa;» knocked down recovered himself so 
far as to sit up9n the ground, and I perceived tha;t my savage 
began to be afraid j but when I saw that> I presented my other 
piece at the man, as if I would shoot him : upon this my savage, 
for so I call him now, made a motion to me to lend him my 
sword, which hung naked in a belt by my side, which I did. tie 
no sooner had it, but he runs to his enemy, and, at one blow, 
cut off his head so cleverly, no executioner in Germany could 
have done it sooner or better ; which I thought very strajage for 
one who, I bad reason to believe, never saw a sword in his ii& 
before, except their own wooden swords; however, it seems, as 
I learned afterwards, they make their wooden swords so eh^^p, 
so heavy, and the wood is so hard^ that they will cut off heads 
even with them, ay and arms, and that at one blow too. . When 
he had d^e thia^ he comes laughing to me, in si^ of triumph* 
and brought me the sword again, and with abundance of ges- 
tures, which I did not undesBtandi laid it down, with the head 
of the savage that he had killed, just before me. But that which 
4^t<»iished him most, was to know how I killed the other Indian 
so far off: so pointing to him, he made signs ^ me to kt him go 
to him ; so I bade him go, as well as I could. When he can^e to 
him, he ^ood hke one amazed, looking at him, turning him .first 
on one side, then on the other, looked ^t the wound the bullet 
had made, which, it seems, was ju^ in his hr^ai^ where it had 
made a hde, and no great quantity of blood had followed; hot 
he had bled inwardly, for he was ^uite dead. He took up his 
bow and arrows, and came back : so I turned to go away^ and 
beckoned him to Mow me, makii^ ^gna t^ him th«t mc^e 
might come after them. Upon this, he made signs to me that 
he should bury them with sand, that they might not be seen by 
the rest, if they followed ; and so I made e^m to him Sfs^ ^ 
do so. He fell to work; aia^, in an instamt, he had scragied a 
hole in the sand with his hands, big enoui^ to Imy ^ first in, 
and then dragged hun into it, and then .covered him ; and did so 
by the ot^er also; I believe he had buried th^an bo^ in a quarter 
of an hour. Then calling him aw&y, I carried h^ not to my 
ca^e, but quite away to my oave, on the ihittber part of the 
island : so I did not let xa^ dream come to pass in thai part, v^. 
ikaX he came into my grove for shelter. Here I gave him hi^ad 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINiN>N CRUflOE. 17b 

and a hufich of raisins to eat, and a draught of water, which 
i ibund he was indeed in great distress for, hy his running; 
and having Refreshed him, I made signs for him to go and lie 
dowf^ to skep, showing him a place where I had laid some rice 
straw, tind a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep upon myself 
S6tt*e6mes ; so the poor Creature lay ddwn, and went to sleep. 

H^ was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well made, with 
straight strong limbs, not too large, taU, and well shaped; and, 
as I reckon, about twenty-six years of age. He had a very good 
countenance, not a fierce and surly aspect, but seemed to have 
Something very manly in his face ; and yet he had all the sweet- 
ness and softness of an European iti his countenance too, espe- 
<3i8Hy when he smiled. His hair was long and black, not curled 
like wod ; his forehead very high and large ; and a great vivacity 
and sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The coleur of his skin was 
not qttit© black, but very tawny; and yet not an ugly, yellow, 
nftusdous tawny, as the Bifaftilkms and Virginians, and other na- 
trres of America ire, btit of a bright kind of a dun olive colour, 
'&^t had in it something very agreeable, though not very easy to 
describe. His feee ^ka round and plump ; his nose small, not flat 
fifce the Negro^ ; a very ^6od mouth, thin lijjs, and his fine teeth 
wefl set, and as white hs ivory. 

After he had slumbered, rather thatn slept, about half an hour, 
he ai^oke again, and came out of the cave to me, for I had been 
iaMlldng my goats, which I had in the inclosure just by : when 
he espied me, he came running to me, laying himself down again 
upon the ground, with all the possible signs of an humble thank- 
f^ disposition, making a great many antic gestures to show it. 
At last, he lays his hestd ^t upon the ground, close to my foot, 
and sets ray other foot upon his head, as he had done before; 
and after this, made all the si^ns to me of subjection, servitude, 
and submission, knaginable, to let liie know how he would serve 
me so long as he lived. I understood him in many things, and 
let him know I was very well i^eacfefd with him. In a little time 
I began to spe&k to him', and tea^ him to speak to me ; and 
ttsti I let him knO^ his nanne should be FitiDAV, which was the 
day I saved his lifb : I called hifii so for the memory of the time. 
I likewise taught him to say. Master ; and l^n let him know that 
was to be my name : I likewise taught him to say Yed and No, 
and to know the meankig of them. I gave him some milk in an 
earthen pot, and let him see me drink it before him, and sop my 
bread in it ; and gave him a cake of bread to do the like, which 
he quickly complied with, and made signs that it was very good 
for him. I kept ^ere with him all that night ; but as soon as it 

16» 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



174 AOVENTirRES OF 

was day, I beckoned him to come with me, and let him 
know I would give him some clothes ; at which he seemed yery 
glad, for he was stark naked. As we went by the .place where 
he had buried the two men, he pointed exactly to the place, and 
showed me the marks that he had made to find them again, 
making signs to me that we should dig them up again, and eat 
them. At this I appeared very angry, expressed my abhorrence 
of it, made as if I would vomit at the thoughts of it, and beck- 
oned with my hand to him to come away; which he did imme- 
diately, with great submission. I then led him up to the top of the 
hill, to see if his enemies were gone ; and pulling out my glass, I 
looked, and saw plainly the place where they had been^ but no 
appearance of them or their canoes; so that it was piain they 
were gone, and had left their two comrades behind them, without 
any search after tliem. 

But I was not content with this discovery; but having now 
more courage and consequently more curiosity, I took my man 
Friday with me, giving him the sword in his hand, with the bow 
and arrows at his back, which I found he could use very dex- 
terously, making him carry one gun for me, and I two for my- 
self; and away we marched to the place where these creatures 
had been ; for I had a mind now to get some fuller intelligence 
of them. When I came to the place, my very Uood ran chill in 
my veins, and my heart sunk within me, at the horror of the 
spectacle ; indeed, it was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to 
me, though Friday made nothing of it. The place was covered 
with human bones, the ground dyed with their blood, and great 
pieces of flesh left here and there, half-eaten, mangled, and 
scorched; and, in short, all the tokens of the triumphant feast 
they had been making there, after a victory over their enemies. 
I saw three sculls, five hands, and the bones of three or four 
legs and feet, and abundance of other parts of the bodies; and 
Friday, by his signs, made me understand that they brought over 
four prisoners to feast upon ; that three of them were eaten up, 
and that he, pointing to himself, was the fourth ; that there had 
been a great battie between them and their next king, whose 
subjects, it seems, he had been one of, and that they had taken a 
great number of prisoners ; all of which were carried to several 
places by those who had taken them in the fight, in order to feast 
upon them, as was done here by these wretches upon those they 
brought hither. 

I caused Friday to gather all the sculls, bones, flesh, and what- 
ever remained, and lay them together in a heap, and make a 
great fire upon it, and bum them all to ashes. I found Friday 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



KOBINSQN CRUSOE. 175 

had still a hankering stomach after some of the flesh, and was still 
a cannibal in his nature ; but I discovered so much abhorrence at 
the very thoughts of it, and at the least appearance of it, that he 
durst not discover it ; for I had, by some means, let him know that 
I would kill him if he offered it. 

When he had done this, we came back to our castle; and 
there I fell to work for my man Friday: and, first of all, I 
gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I had out of the poor 
gunner's chest I mentioned, which I found in the wreck; and 
which, with a little alteration, fitted him very well: and then I 
made him a jerkin of goat's skin, as well as my skill would 
allow (for I was now grown a tolerable good tailor) ; and I gave 
him a cap, which I made of hare's skin, very convenient and 
fashionable enough: and thus he was clothed for the present, 
tolerably well, and was mighty well pleased to see himself almost 
as well clothed as his master. It is true, he went awkwardly in 
these clothes at first ; wearing the drawers was very awkward to 
him, and the sleeves of the waiscoat galled his shoulders, and the 
inside of his arms ; but after a little easing them where he com- 
plained they hurt him, and using himself to them, he took to them 
at length very well. 

The next day after I came home to my hutch with him, I 
began to consider where I should lodge him; and that I might 
do well for him, and yet be perfectly easy myself, I made a 
little tent for him in the vacant place between my two fortifi- 
cations, in the inside of the last and in the outside of the first. 
As there was a door or entrance there into my cave, I made a 
formal framed doorcase, and a door to it of boards, and set it 
up in the passage, a little vdthin the entrance; and causing the 
door to open in the inside, I barred it up in the night, taking 
in my ladders too ; so that Friday could no way come to me in 
the inside df my innermost wall, without making so much noise 
in getting over that it must needs waken me; for my first wall 
had now a complete roof over it of long poles, covering all my 
tent, and leaning up to the side of the lull; which was again 
laid across with smaller sticks, instead of laths, and then thatched 
over a great thickness with the rice straw, which was strong, 
like reeds ; and at the hole or place which was left to go in or out 
by the ladder, I had placed a kind of trapdoor, which, if it had 
been attempted on the outside, would not have opened at all, 
but would have fallen down, and made a great noise : as to 
weapons, I took them all into my side every night. But I needed 
none of all this precaution ; for never man had a more faithful, 
loving, sincere servant, than Friday was to me ; without pas- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



176 ROBINSON CRU80B. 

6ioii8| suUeimess, ot designs, perfectly obliged and engaged; his 
very affections were tied to me, like liiose of a child to a father ; 
and I dare say he would have sacrificed his life for the saving 
mine, upon any occasion whatsoever: the many testimonies he 
gave me of this put it out of doubt, and soon convinced me 
^at I needed to use no precautions, as to my safety on his 
account. 

This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with won- 
der, that however it had pleased Grod, in his providence, and in the 
government of the works of his hands, to take from so great a 
part of the world of his creatures the best uses to which their 
Acuities and ^e power of their souls are acbtpted, yet that he has 
bestowed upon them ^e same powers, the same reason, the same 
affections, the same sentiments of kindnesd and obligation, the 
same passions and resentments of wrongs, the same sense of 
gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all the capaci^s of dmng good, 
and receiving good, that he has given to us ; and that when he 
pleases to offer ^em occasions of exerting these, they are as ready, 
nay, more ready, to apply them to the right uses for which ^y 
were bestowed, than we are. This made me very melancholy 
sometimes, in reflecting, as the several occasions presented, how 
mean a use we make of all these, even though we have these 
powers enlightened by ^e great lamp of instruction, tiie Spirit of 
God, and by the knowledge of his word added to our understand- 
ing ; and why it has pleased God to hide the like saving knowl- 
edge from so many millions of souls, who, if I might judge by this 
poor sava^, would make a much better use of it than we did. 
From hence, I scMnetimes wa6 led too &r, to invade the sovereignty 
of Providence, and as it were arraign the justice of so arbitrary a 
disposition of things, that should hide that light from some, and 
reveal it to others, and yet expect a like duty from, both, but I shut 
it up, and checked my thoughts with this conclusion : first, That 
wo did not know by wbsX light and law these should be con- 
demned ; but tiiat as Grod was necessarily, and, by the natoe of 
his being, infinitely holy and just, so it could not be, but if these 
creatures were all sentenced to absence frcrai himself, it was on 
account of sinning against that light, which, as the Scripture says, 
was a law to themselves, aud by such rules as their consciences 
would acknowledge to be just, tiiongh the foundation was not dis- 
covered to us ; and, secondly. That still, as we all are the diay in 
the hand of the potter, no vessel could say to him, Why hast thou 
formed me thus? 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION XXIU. 

KOBINSON INSTBUCTS AND CIVILIZES HIS HAN VRIDAY. 

After I had been two or three days returned to my castle, I 
thought that, in order to bring Friday off from his horrid way of 
feeding, and from the relish of a cannibal's stomach, I ought to 
let him taste other flesh : so I took him out with me one morning 
to the woods. I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out of my 
own flock, and bring it home and dress it ; but as I was going, I 
saw a she goat lying down in the shade, and two young kids 
sitting by her. I catched hold of Friday ; — Hold, said I ; stand 
still ; and made signs to him not to stir : immediately I presented 
my piece, shot, and kQled one of the kids. The poor creature, 
who had, at a distance, indeed, seen me . kill the savage, his 
enemy, but did not know, nor could imagine, how it was done, 
was sensibly surprised, trembled and shook, and looked so amazed, 
that I thought he would have sunk down. He did not see the kid 
I shot at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat, 
to feel whether he was not wounded ; and, as I found presently, 
thought I was resolved to kill him : for he came and kneeled down 
to me, and embracing my knees said a great many things I did not 
understand ; but I could easily see the meaning was, to pray me not 
to kill him. 

I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him no 
harm ; and taking him up by the hand, laughed at him, and point- 
ing to the kid which I had killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch 
it, which he did : and while he was wondering, and looking to see 
how the creature was killed, I loaded my gun again. By and by, 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



178 ADVENTURES OF 

I saw a great fowl, like a hawk, sitting upon a tree, within slirt ; 
so, to let Friday understand a little what I would do, I called Lla 
to me again, pointed at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, 
though I thought it had been a hawk ; I say, pointing to the parrot, 
and to my gun, and to the ground under the parrot, to let him 
see I would make it fall, I made him understand that I would 
shoot and kiH that bird ; accordingly, I fired, and bade him look, 
and immedia>tely he saw the parrot fall. He stood like one fright- 
ened again, notwithstandiBg all I had said to him ; and I found he 
was the more amazed, because he did not see me put any thing into 
the gun, but thought ^at there must be some wonderful fund of 
death and destruction in that thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, or 
any thing Hear or £tr off ; and the astonishment this created in him 
was such, as could dot wear off for a long time ; and I believe, if I 
would have let him, he would have worshipped me and my gun. 
As for the gun itself, he would not so much as touch it for several 
days after ; but he would speak to it, and talk to it, as if it had an- 
swered him, when he wais by himself; which, as I afterwards learn- 
ed of him, was to desire it not to kill him. Well, after his astonish- 
ment was a little over at this, I pointed to him to run and fetch the 
bird I had shot, which he did, but stayed some time ; for the parrot, 
not being quite dead, had fluttered away a good distance from the 
place where she fell : however, he found her, took her up, and 
brought her to me ; and as I had perceived his ignorance about the 
gun before, I took this advantage to charge the gun again, and not 
to let him see me do it, that I might be ready for any other mark 
that might present ; but nothing more offered at that time ; so I 
brought home the kid, and the same evening I took the skin off, and 
cut it out as well as I could ; and having a pot fit for that purpose, I 
boiled or stewed some of the flesh, and made some very good broth. 
After I had begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed 
very glad of it, and liked it very well : but that which was strangest 
to him, was to see me eat salt with it. He made a sign to me that 
the salt was not good to eat ; and putting a little into his own mouth, 
he seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and sputter at it, washing 
his mouth with fresh water after it : on the other hand, I took some 
meat into my mq^th without salt, and I pretended to spit and sputter 
for want of salt, as fast as he had done at the salt ; but it would not 
do ; he would never care for salt with his meat or in his broth ; at 
least, not for a great while, and then but a very little. 

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was resolved 
to feast liim the next day with roasting a piece of the kid : this I 
did, by hanging it before ttie fire on a string, as I had seen many peo- 
ple do in England, setting two poles up, one on each side of the fire. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINiOK CRTTfOk. 179 

and one across on the top, and tying the string to ihe cross stick, 
letting ^e meat turn continually. Tliis Friday admired very much ; 
but when he came to taste the flesh, he took so many ways to tell 
me how well he hked it, that I could not hut understand him : and 
at last he told me, as wefl as he could, he would never eat man's 
flesh any more, which I was very glad to hear. 

The next day, I set him to work to beating some com out, and 
sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I observed before ; and he 
soon understood how to do it as well as I, especially after he had 
seen what tiie meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of 
it ; for after that I let him see me mak^ my bread, and bake it too ; 
and in a little time Friday was able to do afl #ie work ibr me, as 
%efl as I could 4o it myself. 

I began now to consider, that having two mouths to feed, instead 
of one, I must provide more ground for my harvest, imd plant a 
larger quantity of com than I used to do ; so I marked out a larger 
piece of land, and began the fence in the same manner as before, in 
which Friday worked not only very willingly and very hard, but did 
it very cheerft^ : and f told him what it was for ; that it was for 
com to make more bread, because he was now with me, and that I 
might have enough for him and myself too. He appeared very sen- 
sible of that part, and let me know that he l^otight I had much more 
labour upon me on his account, than I had fbr myself; and that he 
would work the harder fbr me, if I would tell him what to do. 

This was the plestsantest year of all ^e life I led in this place ; 
Friday began to telk pretty well, and understand the names of almost 
every thing I had occasion to call: for, and of every place I had to 
isend him to, and talked a great deal to me ; so that, in short, I began 
now to have some use for my tongue again, which, indeed, I had 
very little oceasicto for before, that is to say, about speech. Besides 
the pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular satisfection in the 
fellow himself: his simple unfeigned honesty appeared to me more 
and more every day, and I began really to love the creature ; and, 
on his side, I believe he loved me more than it was possible for him 
ever to love any thing before. 

I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering inclination to his 
own country again ; and having taught him English so well that he 
could answer me almost any question, I asked him whether the na- 
tion that he belonged to never conquered in battle ? At which he 
smiled, and said. Yes, yes, we always fight the better : that is, he 
meant, always get the better in fight ; and so we began the following 
discourse : — 

Master. You always fight the better? how came you to be 
taken prisoner then, Friday? 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



180 ROBINION CRUSOE. 

FmoAr. My nation beat much, for all that. 

Master. How beat ? If yoar nation beat them, how eame yon 
to be taken"*? 

Friday. ' They more many than my nation in the place where 
me was ; they take one, two, three, and me ; my nation overheat 
them in the yonder place, where me no was ; there my nation take 
one, twOj great thousand. 

Master. But why did not your side recover you from the hands 
of your enemies then ? 

Friday. They run one, twd, three, and me, and make go in the 
canoe ; my nation have no canoe that time. 

Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with the 
men they take ? Do they carry them away and eat them, as these 
did? 

Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too ; eat all up. 

Master. Where do they carry them ? 

Friday. Go to other place, where they think. 

Master. Do they come hither ? 

Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither ; some other else place. 

Master. Have you been here with them ? 

Friday. Yes, I have been here ; (points to the N. W. side of 
the island, which, it seems, was their side.) 

By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly been am<Hig 
the savages who used to come ou shore on the farther part of the 
island, on the same maneating occasions he was now brought for ; 
and, some time after, when I took the courage to carry him to that 
side, being the same I formerly mentioned, he presently knew the 
place, and told me he was there once when they eat up twenty men, 
two women, and one child ; he could not tell twenty in English, but 
he numbered them, by lajring so many stones in a row, and pointing 
to me to tell them over. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION XXIV. 

K0BIN80N AND FKIDAT BUILD A CANOE TO CASRT THBM TO FSIDAT'S 
COUNTRY. — THKIB SCHEME PBEYENTBD BY THE ABBIYAL OF A FABTY 
OF 8AYAOE8. 

After Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, and that 
he could understand almost all I said to him, and speak 4)retty 
fluently, though in broken English, to me, I acquainted him with 
my own history, or at least so much of it as related to my coming 
to this place ; how I had lived here, and how long : I let him into 
the mystery, for such it was to him, of gunpowder and bullet, 
and taught him how to shoot. I gave him a knife, which he was 
wonderfully delighted with ; and I made him a belt, with a frog 
hanging to it, such as in England we wear hangers in ; and in the 
frog, instead of a hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not 
only as good a weapon, in some cases, but much more useful upon 
other occasions. 

I described to him the country of Europe, particularly England, 
which I came from; how we lived, how we worshipped God, 
how we behaved to one another, and how we traded in ships to 
all parts of the world. I gave him an account of the wreck which 
I had been on board of, and showed him, as near as I could, the 
place where she lay ; but she was all beaten in pieces before, and 
gone. I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when 
we escaped, and which I could not stir with my whole strength 
then; but was now fellen almost all to pieces. Upon seeing 
this boat, Friday stood musing a great while, and said nothing. 
I asked him what it was he studied upon ? At last, says he. Me 
see such boat like come to place at my nation. I did not under- 
stand him a good while ; but, at last, when I had examined 
farther into it, I understood by him, that a boat, such as that had 
been, came on shore upon the coimtry where he lived ; that is, as 

10 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



182 ADTSNTUIlEt OF 

he explained it, was driren thither by 8^«S8 of weather. I pres- 
ently imagined that some European ship imnt have been cast away 
upon their coast, and the boat might get loose, and driye ashore ; but 
was so dull, that I never once thought of men middng ^eir escape 
from a wreck thither, much less whence they might eorae : so I only 
inquired after a description of the host. 

Fridj^ described the boot to me well enough ; "btit brought me 
better to understand him whein he added wi^ some warmth. We 
* save the white mans from drown. Then I presently asked him, 
if there were any white mans, as he called th^m, in the boat ? Yes, 
he said; the boat full of white mans. I asked him how manyl 
He told upon his fingers seventeen. I asked him then what , 
became of them? He told me, They live, they dwell at my 
nation. 

This put new thou^ts into my head ; for I presently imagined 
that these might be the men belonging to the ship that was cast 
away in the sight of my island ; as I now called it ; and who, after 
the ship was struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost, 
had saved themselves in their boat, and were landed upon that wild 
shore among the savages. Upon this, I inquired of him more crit- 
ically what was become of them ; he assured me they lived still 
there ; that they had been there about four years ; that the savages 
let them alone, and gave them victuals to live on. I asked him how 
it came to pass they did not kill them, and eat them ? He said. No, 
they make brother with them ; that is, as I understood him, a truce ; 
and then he added, They no eat mans but when make the war fight ; 
that is to say, they never eat any men but such as come to fight with 
them, and are taken in battle. 

It was after this some considerable time, that being upon the 
top of the hill, at the east side of the island, from whence, as I have 
said, I had, in a clear day, discovered the main or continent of 
America, Friday, the weather being very serene, looks very earn- 
estly towards the main land, and, in a kind of surprise, falls a 
jumping and dancing, and calls out to me, for I was at some dis- 
tance from him. I Bsked him what was the matter? O joy! 
says he ; O glad ! there see my country, there my nation ! I ob- 
served an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared in his fkce, 
and his eyes sparkled, and his countenance discovered a strange 
eagerness, as if he had a mind to be in his own country again. 
This observation of mine put a great many thoughts into me, 
which made me at first not so easy about my new man, Friday, ^ 
as I was before ; and I made no doubt but that if Friday could 
get back to his own nation again, he would not only forget all his 
religion, but all his obligation to me, and would be forward enough 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUfOS. 1&3 

to give his conntrymeii an account of me, and tome back perhaps 
with a hundred or two of them, and make a feast npon me, at 
which he might be as merry as he used to be with those of his 
enemies, when they were taken in war. But I wronged the poor 
honest creature very much, for which I was very sorry after- 
wards. Howerer, as my jeakmi^ increased, and held me some 
weeks, I was a little more circumspect, and not so ^miliar and 
kind to him as before ; in which I was certainly in the wrong too ; 
tiie honest, grateful creature, haring no thought about it, but what 
consisted with the best principles, both as a religious Christian, 
and as a grateful friend ; as appeared afterwards, to my full satis- 
fsLction. 

While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was every 
day pumping him, to see if he would discover any of the new 
Noughts which I suspected were in him : but I found every thing 
he said was so honest and so innocent, tiiat I oocdd find nothing 
to nourish my suspicion ; and, in spite of aU my uneasiness, he 
made me at last entirely his own again ; not did he, in thb least, 
perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore I eoi^ not su£ipect lorn 
of deceit. 

One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather being hazy 
at sea, so that we could not see the continent, I eatted to him, a^ 
said, Friday, do not you wish yourself in your own eountry, your 
own nation 1 — ^Yes, he said, I be much O glad to be at my own 
mition. — What would you do there % said I : would you turn wild 
again, eat men^s fiesh again, and be a savage, as you were before 1 
He looked fiill of concern, and shaking his betA, said. No, no; 
Friday tefl them to Hve good, tell them to pray God, teU ikem to 
eat corn-bread, catlte-flesh, mHk ; no eat man again. — ^Why then, 
said I to him, they will kill you. He looked grave at t^t, and 
then said. No, no ; they no kill me, they willing love learn. He 
meant by this, they would be willing to learn. He added, they 
learned much of the bearded mans that came in tho boat Then 
I asked him if he would go back to them. He smiled at that, and 
told me that he could not swim so far. I told him, I would make 
a canoe for hiin. He told me he would go, if I would go with 
him. I go ! says I ; why, they will eat me, if I come there. — No, 
no, says he ; me make they no eat you ; me make they much love 
you. He meant, he would tell them how I had kHled his enemies, 
and saved his life, and so he would make them love me. Then 
he told me, as well as hg could, how kind they were to seventeen 
white men, or bearded men, as he called them, who came on shore 
there in distress. 

For this time, I confess I had a srind to venture over, and M* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



184 ADVENTURSt OF 

if I could posaUj join with those bearded men, who I made no 
doubt, were Spaniards and Portuguese : not doubting but ii' I 
could, we might find some method to escape from thence, being 
upon the continent, and a good company together, better than I 
could from an island forty miles off the shore, and alone, without 
help. So, after some days, I took Friday to work again, by way 
pf discourse : and told him I would give him a boat to go back to 
his own nation; and accordingly I carried him to my frigate, 
which lay on the other side of the island, and having cleared it of 
water (for I always kept it sunk in water) I brought it out, showed 
it him, and we both went into it I found he was a most dex- 
terous fellow at managing it, and would jaake it go almost as swift 
again as I could. So when he was in, I said to him, Well, now, 
Friday, shall we go to your nation ? He looked very dull at my 
saying so ; which, it seems^ was because he thought the boat too 
small to go so far : I then told him I had a bigger ; so the next 
day I went to the place where the first boat lay which I had made, 
but which I could not get into the water. He said that was big 
enough : but then, as I had taken no care of it, and it had lain 
two or three-and-twenty years there, the sun had split and dried it, 
that it was in a manner rotten. Friday told me such a boat would 
do very well, and would carry * much enough yittle, drink, bread ;' 
that was his way of talking. 

Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my design of 
going over with him to. the continent, that I told him we would 
go and make one as big as that, and he should go home in it. He 
answered not one word, but looked very grave and sad. I asked 
him what was the matter with him 1 Hs as]^ed me again. Why . 
you angry mad with Friday? What me done? I asked him 
what he meant : I tdd him I was not angry with him at all. No 
angry ! says he, repeating the words several times ; Why send 
Friday home away to my nation ? — ^Why, says I, Friday, did not 
you say, you wished you were there ? — Yes, yes, says he, wish 
be both there ; no wish Friday there, no master there. In a word, 
he would not think of going there without me. I go there, Fri- 
day! says I; what shall I do there? He returned very quick 
upon me at this : You do great deal much good, says he ; you 
teach wild mans be good, sober^ tame mans ; you tell them know 
God, pray God, and live new life. — ^Alas! Friday, says I, thou 
knowest nojt what thou sayest ; I am but an ignorant man myself. 
— ^Yes, yes, says he, you teachee me good, you teachee them 
good. — No, no, Friday, says I, you shall go without me ; leave 
me here to live by myself, as I did before. He looked confused 
again at that word ; and running to one of the hatchets which he 



Digitized by VjOOQLC 



ROBINBON CRUSOE. 185 

used to wear, He takes it up hastily, and gives it to me. What 
must I do with this'? says I to him. You take kill Friday, says 
he. What must I kill you for? said I again. He returns very 
quick. What you send Friday away for ? Take kill Friday, no 
send Friday away. This he spoke so earnestly, that I saw tears 
stand in his eyes : in a word, I so plaiidy discorered the utmost 
affection in him to me, and a firm resolution in him, that I told 
him then, and often after, that I wouM never send him away from 
me, if he was willing to stay with me. 

Upon the whole, as I found, hy all his discourse, a settled af- 
fection to me, and that nothing should part him from me, so I 
found all the foundation of his desire to go to his own country was 
laid in his ardent affection to the people, and his hopes of my 
doing them good ; a thing, which, as I had no notion of myself, so I 
had not the least thought, or intention, or desire of undertaking it. 
But stffl I found a strong indination to my attempting an escape, 
as above, founded on the supposition gatiiered fh»n the discourse, 
viz. that there were seventeen bearded men there : and, therefore, 
without any more delay, I went to work witii Friday, to find out 
a great tree proper to fell, and make a large periagua, or canoe, 
to undertake the voyage. There were trees enough in the island 
to have built a little fleet, not of periaguas, or canoes, but even of 
good large vessels: but the main thing I looked at was, to get 
one so near the water that we might launch it when it was made, 
to avoid the mistake I committed at first. At last, Friday pitched 
upon a tree ; for I found he knew much better than I what kind 
of wood was fittest for it ; nor can I tell, to this day, what wood 
to call the tree we cut down, except that it was very like tiie tree 
we call fustic, or between that and the Nicaragua wood, for it 
was much of tiie same colour and smell. Friday was for burning 
the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to make it for a boat, but I 
showed him how to cut it with tools ; which, after I had showed 
him how to use, he did very haitdily : and in about a month's 
hard labour we finished it, and made it very handsome ; especially 
\dien, witii our axes, which I showed him how to handle, we cut 
and hewed the outside into the true shape of a boat. After this, 
however, it cost us near a fortni^t's time to get her along, as it 
were inch by inch, upon great rollers into the water ; but when 
she Was in, she would have carried twenty men with great ease. 

When she was in the water, and though she was so big, it 
amazed me to see with what dexterity, and how swift my man 
Friday would manage her, turn her, and paddle her along. So I 
asked him if he would, and if we might, venture over in her. 
Yes, he said ; we venture over in her very weU, ^lough great 

1«* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



186 ADTENTURE0 OF 

blow wind. However,*! had a farther design, that he knew 
nothing of, and that was to make a mast and a sail, and to fit her 
with an anchor and cable. As to a mast, that was easy enough 
to get; so I pitched upon a straight young cedar tree, which I 
found near the place, and which there were great plenty of in the 
island : and I set Friday to work to cut it down, and gave him 
directions how to shape and order it. But as to the sail, that was 
my particular care. I knew I had old sails or rather pieces of 
old sails enough; but as I had had theih now six-and-twenty 
years by me, and had not been very careful to preserve them, not 
imagining that I should ever have this kind of use for them, I did 
not doubt but they were all rotten, and, indeed, most of them were 
so. However, I found two pieces which appeared pretty good, 
and with these I went to work ; and with a great deal of pains, 
and awkward stitching, you may be sure, for want of needles, I 
at length made a three cornered ugly thing, like what we call in 
England a shoulder-of-mutton-sail, to go with a boom at bottom, 
and a little short sprit at the top, such as usually our ship^s long- 
boats sail with, and such as I best knew how to manage, as it was 
such a one I had to the boat in which I made my escape &om Bar- 
bary, as related in the first part of my story. 

I was near two months performing this last wo^k, viz. rigging 
and fitting my mast and sails ; for I finished them very complete, 
making a small stay, and a sail, or foresail, to it, to assist, if we 
should turn to windward ; and, which was more than all, I fixed 
a rudder to the stem of her to steer with. I was but a bungUng 
shipwright, yet, as I knew the usefulness, and even necessity of 
such a thing, I applied myself* with so much pains to do it, that 
at last I brought it to pass ; though, considering the many dull 
contrivances I had for it that failed, I think it cost me almost as 
much labour as making the boat. 

Afler all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach as to what 
belonged to the navigation of my boat ; for, though he knew very 
well how to paddle a canoe, he knew nothing what belonged to 
a sail and a rudder ; and was the most amazed when he saw me 
work the boat to and again in the sea by the rudder, and how the 
sail gibbed, and filled this way, or that way, as the course we 
sailed changed; I say, when he saw this, he stood like one 
astonished and amazed. However, with a little use, I made all 
these things familiar to him, and he became an expert sailor, ex- 
cept that as to the compass, I could make him understand very 
little of that. On the other hand, as there was very little cloudy 
weather, and seldom or never any fogs in those parts, there was 
the less occasion for a compass, seeing the stars were always to 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBIN0ON CRUSOE. 187 

be seen by nigbt, and the shore by day, except in the rainy seasons, 
and then nobody cared to stir abroad, either by land or sea. 

I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year of my cap- 
tivity in this place; though the three last years that I had tbis 
creature with me ought rather to be left out of the account, my 
habitation being quite of another kind than in all the rest of the 
time. I kept the anniversary of my landing here with the same 
thankfiilness to God for his mercies as at first ; and if I had such 
cause of acknowledgment at first, I had much more so now, having 
such additional testimonies of the care of Providence over me, and 
the great hopes I had of being efiectually and speedily delivered ; 
for I had an invincible impression upon my thoughts that my deliv- 
erance was at hand, and that I should not be another year in this 
place. I went on, however, with my husbandry ; digging, planting, 
and fencing as usual. I gathered and cured my grapes, and did 
every necessary thing as before. 

The rainy season was, in the mean time, upon me, when I kept 
more within doors than at other times. We had stowed our new 
vessel as secure as we could, bringing her up into the creek, where, 
as I said in the beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship ; and 
hauling her up to the shore, at high-water mark, I made my man 
Friday dig a little dock, just big enough to hold her, and just deep 
enough to give her water enough to float in ; and then, when the 
tide was out, we made a strong dam across the end of it, to keep the 
water out ; and so she lay dry, as to the tide, from the sea ; and to 
keep the rain ofi*, we laid a great many boughs of trees, so thick, 
that she was as well thatched as a house ; and thus we waited for 
the months of November and December, in which I designed to 
make my adventure. 

When the settled season began to come in, as the thought of 
my design returned with the fair weadier, I was preparing daily 
for the voyage : and the first thing I did was to lay by a certain 
quantity of provisions, being the stores for our voyage : and 
intended, in a week or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and 
launch out our boat. I was busy one morning upon something 
of this kind, when I called to Friday, and bid him go to the sea- 
shore, and see if he could find a turtle, or tortoise, a thing which 
we generally got once a week, for the sake of the eggs as well 
as the flesh. Friday had not been long gone, when he came 
running back, and flew over my outer wall, or fence, like one 
that felt not the ground, or the steps he set his feet on ; and be- 
fore I had time to speak to him, he cries out to me, O master! 
O master ! O sorrow! O bad ! — ^What's the matter, Friday ? says I. 
yonder, there, says he, one, two, three canoe ; one, two, three ! 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



188 ADVENTURES OF 

By this way of speaking, I concluded there were six; but, on 
inquiry, I found it was but three. Well, Friday, says I, do not 
be frightened ! So I heartened him up as ¥rell as I could : how- 
ever, I saw the poor fellow was most terribly scared--; for nothing 
ran in his head but that they were come to look for him, and 
would cut him in pieces and eat him ; and the poor fellbw trem- 
bled so, that I scarce knew what to do with him. I comforted 
him as well as I could, and told him I w^ in as much danger as 
he, and that they would eat me as well as him: But, says I, 
Friday, we itaust resolre to fight them. Can you fight, Friday 1 — 
Me shoot, says he; but there come many, great number. — ffo 
matter for that, said I, again ; our guns wiQ fright them that we 
do not kill. So I asked him whether, if I Ksolred to defend 
him, he would defend me, and stand by me, and do just as I Md 
him. He said. Me die, when you bid die, masted. So 1 went 
and fetched a good dram of rum and gave hiib ; fbr I had been so 
good a husband of my rum, that I had a great deal left. When 
he drank it, I made him take the two fowlii%-pieces, which we 
always carried) and loaded them with large swan-shot, as big as 
small pistol-bullets: then I took four muskets, imd loaded tliem 
with two slugs, and five sm^ll bullets each ; and my two pistols 
I loaded with a brace of bullets each : I hunfg my great sword, 
as usual, naked by iny side ; and gave Friday his hatchet. When 
I had thus prepared myself, I took my perspective-glass, and 
went up to the side of the hill, to see what I douW discover ; and 
I found quickly, by my glass, that there were one-and-twenty 
savages, three prisoners, and three canoes ; and that their whole 
business seemed to be the triumphant banquet upon these three 
human bodies ; a barbarous feast, indeed ! but nothing more than, 
as I observed, was usual with them. I observed, also, that they 
were landed. Hot where they had done when Friday made his 
escape, but nearer to my creek : where the shore was low, and 
where a thick wood came almost close down to the sea. This, 
with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretches came 
about, filled jaie with such indignation, that I caine down agaiti to 
Friday, and told him I was resolved to go down to them, and kill 
them all ; and asked him if he would stand by me. He had now got 
over his fright, and his spirits being a little raised with the dram I 
had given him, he was very cheerful, and told me, as before, he 
would die when I bid die. 

In this fit of fury, I took and divided the arms which I had 
charged, as before, between us : I gave Friday one pistol to stick 
in his girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder; and I took one 
pistol, and the o^ier three guns myself; and in this posture ^o 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ftOBiNsafir CRUSOE. 189 

flutiehod foL^ I took 9k mmH bottle of rum in ay pocke(» and gave 
Fridaj a Is^ge bag with more powder and bolleto ; and, aa to orders, 
I chained him to keep elose behimi me^ and not to atir» or ahoot, or 
do any timg^ till I bid him ; and in the meantime, not to epeak a 
word. In this posture, I fetched a compass to my right hand of near 
a mile, as well to get over the creek as to get into the wood, so that 
I might come within shot of them before I should be discovered, 

thoughts returning, I 
lat I entertained any 
unarmed wretches, it 
^h I had been alone, 
i occa^on, prach less 
isiaUood,to attack 
ly wrong % Who, as 
toms were their own 
Ts having left them, 
with the other nations of that part of the world, ta such stupidity, and 
to such inhuman courses ; but did not call me to take upon me to be 
a judge of thdr actions, much less an executioner of his justice ; 
tiiat, whenever he tiuraght fit, he would take the cause into his own 
hands, and, by nationsd vengeance, punish them, as a people, for na- 
tional crimes ; but that, in the meantime, it was none of my business ; 
that, it was true, Friday might justify it, because he was a declared 
enemy, and in a state of war with those very particular people, and 
it was lawful for him to attack them ; but I could not say the same 
with respect to myself. These things were so wam^y pressed upon 
my thoughts all the way as I went, that I resolved I would only go 
aiKl place myself near them, that I might observe ^eir barbsurous 
feast, and that I would act then as God should direct; but that, un- 
less something offered that was more a call to me than yet I knew 
of, I would not meddle with them. 

With this resolution I entered the wood ; and, with all possible 
wanness and silence, Friday following close at my heels, I marched 
tin I came to the skirt of the wood, on the side which was next to 
them, only that one comer of the wood lay between me and them. 
Here I called softiy to Friday, and showing him a. great tree, which 
was just at the eomei of the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and 
bring me word if he could see th^e jdainly what they were doing. 
He did so ; and came immediately back to me, and told me they 
might be plainly viewed there ; that they were all about their fire, 
eating the flesh of one of their prisoners, and that another lay bound 
upon the sand, a little from them, which, he said, they would kill 
next, and which fired all the very soul within me. He told me it 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



190 ROBIN0ON CKV«dE. 

WIS iK»t one of thefr iii^on»)mt ore of ^ bended men ke Imd toild 
me of, that eame to ^ir eountry in the boat. I was Mod wifli 
horror at 1^ very nammg- the witite beanted man ; and, going to the 
tree, I saw plainly, by my gkes, a white man, who lay iq»On the beaoh 
of ^ sea, with his hands and his feet tied -mth flags, or things like 
rashes, and that he was an European, and had clothes on. 

There was another tree, and a littie thidset beyond it, abont fifty 
yar^s nearer to them ^an the place where I was, which, by going a 
little way about, I saw I might come at undiscovered, and that then 
I should be within half a shot of them : so I wi&faeld my 4>asaion, 
though I was indeed enraged to the behest degree ; and going back 
about twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, wMch held all the^ 
way tiH I came to ^ other tree ; and tiien came to a litUe rising 
ground, whicfa gave me a iUl view of Iton at the distance <lf aiboal 
eighty yards. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION XXV. 

SOSINSOZr SBLXAtES A SPANIARD. — PBISAT PISCOVBRS HIS PATHER.— 
ACCOMMODATION' PROVIDED POB THESE NRW 6CESTS — WHO ARE APT- 
■SWARDS SRNT TO LIBSBATB TUB OTHBE »9AN£kROS<>-ARRIVAl. OP 
AN BNOLISH VBSftEL. 

I HAD now not a moment to lose, for nintsteen of the dreadftj 
wretches sat upon the gromnd, all close huddled together, and had 
.just sent the other two to hutcher the poor Christian, and bring him, 
perhs^, limb by limb, to their fire ; and they were stooping down to 
mitie the bands at his feet. I turned to Friday — Now, Friday, said 
I, do as I bid thee. Friday said he would. Then, Friday, says I, 
do exactly as you see me do ; fail in nothing. So I set down one 
of the mullets and the fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday 
did the like by his ; and with the other musket I took my aim at the 
sarages, bidding him to do the like: then asking hito if he was 
ready, he said. Yes. Then fire at them, said I ; and at the same 
moment I fired also. 

Friday took his aim so much better than I, tiiat on the side that 
. he shot, he killed two of them, and wounded three more ; and 
on my side, I killed one, and wounded two. They were, you 
may be sure, in a dreadftj consternation ; and all of them who 
were not hurt jumped upon their feet, but did not immcsdiately 
know which way to run, or which way to look, for thejr knew 
hot from whence ftieir destruction came. Friday kept his eyes 
close upon me, that, as I had bid him, he might observe what I 
did; so as soon as the first shot was made, I threw down the 
piece, and took up the fgwling-piece, and Friday did the like: 
he saw me cock and present ; he did the same again. Are you 
ready, Friday ? said I. — ^Yes, says he. liCt fly, then, says I, in 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



192 ADVENTURES OF 

the IK unased 

wretc loaden 

with y ad only 

two a yelling 

and s( m mis- 

erably igh not 

quite i 

No^ 3s, and 

taking lioh he 

did, w of the 

wood, J9 soon 

as I p d bade 

Frida; by the 

way, "^ . , „ , • naade 

directly towards the poor TSCtOBi who was, as I said, lying upon 
the beach, or shore, between the place where they sat and the 
sea. The two batchers, v/ho were just gomg to work with him, 
had left him at the turpdae ef our first fire, and fied in a terrible 
fright to the seaside, and had jumped into a canoe, and three 
more of the rest made the same way. I turned to Friday, and 
bade him step forwards, and fire at them ; he understood me im- 
mediately, and roaniag about forty yards, to be nearer them, he 
shot at them, and I thought he had killed them all, for I saw them 
all fall of a he^ into the boat, though I saw two of them up 
again quickly : however, he killed two of them, and wounded the 
third, so that he lay down in the bottom of the boat as if he had 
be^idead. 

While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my knife and 
cut the flags that bound the poor victim ; and loosing his hands 
and feet, I lifted him up, and asked him in the Portuguese tongue 
what he was. He answered in Latin, Christianus; but was so 
weak and faint that he could scarce stand or speak. I took my 
bottle out of my pocket, and gave it him, making signs that he 
should drink, which he did: and I gave him a piece of bread., 
wbich he eat. Then I asked him what countryman he was : and 
he said, Espagniole ; and being a little recovered, let me know, 
by all the signs he could possibly make, how much he was in my 
debt for his deliverance. Seignior, said I, with as much Spanish 
as I could make up, we will talk afterwards, but we must fight 
now : if you have any strength left, take this pistol and sword, 
and lay about you. He took them very thankfully; and no 
sooner had he the arms in his hands, but, as if they had put new 
vigour into him, he fiew upon his murderers like a fury, and had 
cut two of them in pieces in an instant ; for the truth is, as the 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOB. 193 

whole was a surprise to them, so the poor creatures were so much 
frightened with the noise of our pieces, that they fell down for 
mere amazement and fear, and had no more power to attempt 
their own escape, than their fle^h had to resist our shot : and that 
was the case of those five that Friday shot at in the boat ; for as 
three of them fell with the hurt they received, so the other two 
fen with the fright. * 

I kept my piece in my hand still without fixing, being willing to 
keep my charge ready, because I had given the Spaniard my pis- 
tol and sword : so I called to Friday and bade him run up to the 
tree from whence we first fired, and fetch the arms which lay 
there that had been discharged, which he did with great swift- 
ness ; and then giving him my musket, I sat down myself to load 
all the rest again, and bsCde them come to me when they wanted. 
While I was loading these pieces,^ there happened a fierce en- 
gagement between the Spaniard and one of the savages, who made 
at him with one of their great wooden swords, the same-like 
weapon ttiat was to have killed him before, if I had not prevented 
k. The Spaniard, who was as bold and brave as could be im- 
agined, though weak, had fought this Indian a good while, and 
had cut him two great wounds on his head ; but the savage being 
a stout, lusty fellow, closing in with him? had thrown him down, 
being &int, and was wringing my sword out of his hand ; when 
the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitting the sword, drew 
the pistol from his girdle, shot the savage through the body, and 
killed him upon the spot, before I, who was running to help him, 
could come near him. 

Friday being now left to his liberty, pursued tiie flying wretches, 
with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet ; and with that he 
dispatched those three, who, as I said before, were wounded at 
first, and fallen, and all the rest he could come up with : and the 
Spaniard coming to me for a gun, I gave him one of the 
fowling-pieces, with which he pursued two of the savages, and 
wounded them both; but, as he was not able to run, they both 
got from him into the wood, where Friday pursued them, and 
killed one of them, but the other was too nimble for him ; and 
though he was wounded, yet had plunged himself into the sea, 
and s#am, with all his might, off to those two who were left in 
the canoe, which three in the canoe, vdth one wounded, that we 
knew not whether he died or no, were all that escaped our handa 
of one-and-twenty ; the account of the whole is as follows : three 
killed at our first shot from the tree •, two killed at the next shot ; 
two killed by Friday in the boat ; two killed by Friday of those 
at first wounded ; one killed by Friday in the wood ; three killed 

17 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Id4 ▲pVentuabs of 

by the Spaniard ; four killed, being fpund drq)ped here and there, 
of ^eir wounds, or killed by Friday in his chase of them ; four 
escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if not dead. — Twenty- 
one in all. 

Those that were in the canoe woi^ed hard to get out of gun- 
shot, and though Friday made two or three shots at thenx, I did 
not find that he hit any of them. Friday would fain have had me 
take one of their canoes, and pursue them ; and indeed, I was 
very anxious about their escape, lest carrying the news home to 
their people, they should come back perhaps with two (nt three 
hundred oi the canoes, and devour us by mere multitude ; so I 
consented to pursue them by sea, and running to one of their ca- 
noee, I jumped in, and bade Friday follow me ; but when I wu 
in the canoe, I was surprised to find another poor creature lie 
there, bound hand and foot, as the Spaniard was, for the i^aughter, 
and almost dead with fear, not knowing what was the matter; 
for he had not been able to look up over the side of the boat, he 
was tied so hard neck and heels, and had been tied so long, that . 
he had really but little life in him. 

I immediately cut l^e twisted flags or rushes, which they had 
bound him witii, and would hare helped him up; but he could 
not stand or spes^, but groaned most piteously, believing, it seems, 
still, that he was only unbound in order to be killed. When Fri- 
day came to him, I bade him speak to him, and tell him of his 
deliverance ; and, pulling out my bottle, made him give the poor 
wretch a dram ; which, with the news of his being delivered, re- 
vived him, and he sat up in the boat. But when Friday came to 
hear him speak, and look in his face, it would have moved any 
one to tears to have seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him, 
hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about, danced, 
sung; then cried again, wrung his hands, beat his own face and 
head; and then sung and jumped about again, like a distracted 
creature. It was a good while before I could make him speak 
to me, or tell me what was the matter ; but when he came a little 
to himself, he told me that it was his father. 

It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see what 
ecstacy and filial affection had worked in this poor savage at the 
sight of his father, and of his being delivered from death ; nor, in- 
deed, can I describe half the extravagancies of his affection after 
this ; for he went into the boat, and out of the boat, a great many 
times : when he went in to him, he would sit down by him, open 
his breast, and hold his father's head close to his bosom for many 
minutes together, to nourish it ; then he took his arms and ancles, 
which were numbed and stiff with the binding, and chafSsd and 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



iai4>ed tern witk hi» kUKb ; aad I, pesDeiTmi^ what tbe eaae wo^ 
gate hka acune rtxm mA of n^ botde to rub them wiUi» Aviueb did 
tiiem a great deal of good. 

This a£&ir put an end to oui purwnt of Hie canoe lirith the o^r 
•avages, who were row got aUnoat out of sight ; aad it was happy 
£» OS Uiat we did not, for it blew eo hard witliiB two hours s^er, 
and beifore they could be got a qua;rtet of their way, and cocttinued 
blowing so hard all night, and that from the north-west, which was 
^gamak them, that I coviA never suf^MOse their boat could liv€, or 
that they ever reached their own coast. 

But, to return to Friday ; he was so busy about his father, that 
I coidd not find in my heuft to take him off for some time : but 
a^CT I tkottgirt he eould leave him a little^ I called him to me, and 
he ease jumping and laughing, and ^eased to the highest extreme ; 
th!»i I asked if he had given ]m hihet any bread. He shook his 
head, and said. None.; ugly dog eat all up self. I then gave him 
8 eake ci baread, out <^ a little pouch I canded on purpose ; I also 
gave him a dram ifor himaeU^ but he would Bot taste it, but carried 
it to his Mher. I had in my pocket two or three bunches of 
zaisins, ss I gave hm a handful of them for his father. He had 
no sooner given his fatiser these raisins, but I saw him confie out of 
the boatj aad run away, as if he had h^n bewitched, he ran at such 
a rate ; for he was the swiftee^ fellow on his feet that I ever saw : 
I sacy, he ran at such a rate, that he was out of sight, as it were, 
in an instant; and tiiough I called, and hallooed out too, after 
hiai, it was aU one, away he went ; and in a ^^oartei^ of an hour 
I saw him come iHtek again, thou^ not so fast as be went ; and 
as he came nearer, I fou^ hia pace slacks, because he l»d some- 
thing in his h^od. Wh^ he cauoe up to me, I found he had been 
quite l«»ne for an earthen jug, or pot, to bi^ his &ther some 
f^esh water, and ^at he had two more oak^ or loaves of bread ; 
the bread he gave me, but ^e water he earned to his father ;vhow- 
ever, as I was very thirsty too, I toidt a little sup of it The water 
revived his fhther more than aU the rum or sfuiita I had given him, 
f<Nr he was just Stinting with thirst. 

-When hb &ther had drank, leaded to him to know if there 
was any water lefl : he said. Yes ; and I bade him give it to the 
po<ur Spaniard, who was in as mudi want of it as his Neither ; and 
I sent one of the cakes that Friday hrougl^ to the Spaniard too, 
who was indeed very weak, and was reposing himself upon a green 
place under the shade of a tree ; and whose limbs were also very 
stiff, and very much swelled with the rude bandage be had been 
tied with. When I saw that, upon Friday's coming to him with 
the w^, he sat up and drank^and took the bread, 9Sid began to 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



196 ADVENTURES OF 

eat^ I went to him and gave him a handM of raiMm : be looked 
np in my face with all the tokens of gratilade and tfwnkftilness that 
could appear in any countenance ; but was so weak, notwithstanding 
he had so exerted himself fai the fight, that he could not stand upon 
his feet ; he tried to do it two or three times, but was really not able, 
his ancles were so swelled and so painful to him ; so I bade him mt 
still, and caused Friday to rub his ancles, and bathe them w^ rusi, 
as he had done his fkti^er^s. 

I obserred the poor affectionate creature, every two minntes) <Hr 
periiaps less, all the while he was here, torn his head about, to see 
if his father was in the same phtoe and posture as he left him 
sitting ; and at last he found he was not to be seen ; at which he 
started up, and, without q;>eaking a word, flew with that swiftness 
to him, that one could scarce perceive his feet to touch the gnmnd 
as he went: but when he came, he only found tiiat he had laid 
himself down to ease his limbs, so Friday came back to me jnes- 
ently ; and then I spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him 
up, if he could, and lead him to the boat, and &en he should 
carry him to our dwelling, where I would take care of him : but 
Friday, a lusty strong fellow, took the SpaoiMrd quite upon his 
back, and carried him away to &e boat, and set him down softly 
upon the side or gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in the inside of 
it ; and then lifting him quite in, he set Mm close to his father ^ 
and presently ste^^ing out again, launched the boat off; and pad- 
dled it along the sh<nre faster than I could walk, though the wind 
blew pretty hard too : so he l»:ought them both safe mto our c^redc, 
jind leaving them in the boat, tob. away to fetch the other canoe. 
As he passed me, I spoke to him, and asked him, whither he went 
He told me. Go fetch more boat : so away he went like the vtdnd, 
for sure never man nor horse ran like hhn ; and he had ttm other 
canoe in the creek almost as soon as I got to it i^ land ; so he 
wafled me over, and then went to help our new gueets out of the 
boat, which he did ; but they were neither of them aWc to walk, so 
that poor Friday knew not what to do. 

To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and calling to 
Friday to bid them sit down on the bank ^ile he came to me, I 
soon made a kind of handbarrow to lay them on, and Friday' and 
I carried them both up together upon it, between us. But when 
we got them to the outside of our wall, or fortification, we were 
at a worse loss than before, for it was impossible to get them over, 
and I was resolved not to break it down : so I set to work again ; 
and Friday and I, in about two hours' time, made a very hand- 
some tent, covered with old sails, and above that with boughs of 
trees, being in the space without our outward fence, and between 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



BOBINSON CBUflKMB. 197 

that and the gnrre of jQwag wood which I had planted ; and here 
we Buuie t^em two beds (^ such thiogs as I had, vis. o£ good rice 
straw, wi^ blankets laid upon i^ to lie on, and another to cover them, 
OB each bed. 

My udand was now peopled, and I though myself very rich in 
subjects ; and it was a merry reflection, which I frequently made, 
how like a king I looked. First of aU, the whole connlzy was my 
own mere property, so liiat I had an undoulrted right of dominion. 
Secondly, n^ peqfde were perfectly sulj^cted ; I was absolutely lord 
9Bd lawgirer; they ail owed theic lives to me, and were ready to 
lay down tiieir lives, if there had been occasion for it, for me. It 
was r^aarkabte, too, I had but three subjects, and they were of three 
^£Ssrent religiims : my man Friday was a Protestant, his father was 
a Pagan and a cannibal, and the Spaniard was a Papist : however, I 
allowed liberty of consci^ice throughout my dcuninions : — But tiiis 
is by the way. 

As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued prisoners, and 
given them shelter, md a place to rest them upon, I began to think 
of making some provifidon for them ; and the first thing I did, I or- 
dered Friday to ta^e a yeariing goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out 
of my particular flock, to be killed ; when I cut off the hinder quar- 
ter, and chopping it into small pkces, I set Friday to work to boil- 
ing and stewmg, and made them a very ^ood dish, I assure you, of 
fles^ and br(4h, having put some badey and rice also into the broth : 
and as I cooked it without doors, for I made no fire within my inner 
widl, so I carried it all into the new tent, and having set a table 
there for them, I sat down, and eat my dinner also with them, and, 
as well as I could, eheered them, aiMl mieouraged them. Friday 
was my interpreter, esgeciaiWy to his father, and, indeed^ to the Span- 
iard too ; for the Spa^iiard i^oke l^e language of the savages 
pretfy well, 

A^r we had dined, or rather sc^)ed, I ordered Friday to take 
one of ^e canoes, and go and fetch our muskets and other fire-arms, 
w^eh, for want of time, we had left upon the j^ace of battle : and, 
the next day, I ordered him to go and bury tl^ dead bodies of the 
savages, which lay open to the sun, and would presently be offensive. 
I also (Ordered him tp huay the horrid remains of their barbarous 
feast, which I knew were pretty much, and which I could not think 
of doing myself; nay, I ccmld not bear to see them, if I went that 
way ; all which he punctually performed, and effaced the very ap- 
pearance of the savages being there ; so that when I went again, I 
eould scarce know where it was, otherwise than by the comer of 
the. wood pmnting to the plaoe. 

I then began to enter into a little conTersation with my two new 
17* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



198 ADTXlfTURSi OF 

«abjeet8 : and, fixst, I set Fnday to inquire of Mb iatber what he 
thought of the esca^ of Ihe savages in that canoe, and whether 
we mi^t expect a return of tlwm, with a power too great iox qb 
to resist. His first opinion was, that the savages in the boat nev^ 
could live out the stoim which blew that night th^ went off, but 
inusi, of necessity, be drowned, or driven south to those other 
shores, where they were as suse to be devoured as they were 
to be drowned, if ^ey were cast away : but, as to what ^ey would 
do, if ^y eaaie safe on ^tkonre, he nid he knew not; but it was 
his (pinion, that they were so dreadfully frightened with the mut- , 
ner of their being s^tacked, ihe noise, and the Hxe, that he believed 
they would tell the people they were aU kiUed by tlmnder and 
lightning, not by the hand of man ; and that the two which appeared, 
▼iz. Friday and I, were two heavenly spirit^ or furies^ oome down 
to destooy them, and not fiaea with we^»oiis. This, he and, he 
knew ; because he heard them all cry out so, in their httgitage, 
one to ano^er ; for it was impossible for them to otmoeive that a 
man could dart fire, and speak thunder, and kill at a distance, 
without lifting up the hand, as was done iufw : and this <^ saTage 
was in the right ; for, as I ui^erstood since, by other hands, the 
savages never attenqyted to go over to the island afterwards^ they 
were so terrified with the recounts given by those fym men (for, 
it seems, they £d escape the sea), that ttiey believed whoever 
went to that enchanted ii^and would be destroyed with fire tcom 
the gods. This, however, I knew not ; and therefot« was under 
continual apprehensions f(»: a good Wlule, and kept always upon 
my guard, with all my aimy : for, as there were now four of us, I 
would have ventured upon a hundred of them, fairly in the open 
field, at any time. 

In a little time, however, no more canoes appeasing, the foar of 
.their coming wore off; and I began to take my foimer thoughts 
of a voyage to tlw main ii^ conndei^on ; being tikewise as- 
sured, by Friday's lather, that I might depend upon good usage 
from their nation, on his account, if I would go. But my tfatmghts 
were a little suspended when I had a serious discourse with the 
Spaniard, and when I utiderstood that there were sixteen more ei 
his countrymen and Portuguese, \^^, having been oast away, and 
made their escape to that dide, lived there at peace, indeed, with 
the savages, but were very 'sore put to it for necessaries, and in- 
deed for life. I asked him all the particulars of their voyage, and 
found they were a Spanish ship, bound frcmi the Rio de la Plata 
to Havannah, -being directed to leave their loading there, which 
was chiefly hides and silver, and to bring back what European 
goods they codd meet with there; that they had five Portuguese 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 199 

seamen on board, whom they took out of another wreck ; that five 
of their own men were drowned, when first their ship was lost, and 
that these escaped, through infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived, 
sdmost starved, on the cannibal coast, where they expected to have 
been devoured every moment. He told me they had some arms 
with them, but tiiey were perfectly useless, for that they had neither 
powder nor baH, the washing of the sea having spoiled all theirp ow- 
der, but a littie, which they used, at their first landing, to provide 
themselves some food. 

I asked him what he thought would become of them here, and 
if they had formed no design of making any escape. He said they 
had many consultations about it; but that having neither vessel, 
nor tools to build one, nor provisions of any kind, their councils 
always ended in tears and despair. I asked him how he thought 
they would receive a proposal frojn me, which might tend towards 
an escape ; and whether, if they were all here, it might not bo 
done. I told him with fireedom, I feared mostly their treachery 
and ill usage of me, if I put my life in their hands ; for that grati- 
tude was no inherent virtue in the nature of man, nor did 'men « 
always square their dealings by the obligations they had received, 
so much as they did by the advantages they expected. I told 
him it would be very hard that I shovdd be the instrument of their 
deliverance, and that they should afterwards make me their pris- 
oner in New Spain, where an Englishman was certain to be made 
a sacrifice, what necessity or what accident soever brought him 
thither ; and that I had rather be delivered up to the savages, and 
be devoured alive, than fall into the merciless claws of the priests, 
and be carried into the Inquisition. I added, that otherwise I 
was persuaded, if they were all here, we might, vnth so many 
hands, build a bark large enough to carry us all away, either to the 
Brazils, southward, or to the islands, or Spanish coast, northward ; 
but that if, in requital, they should, when I had put weapons iiito 
their hands, carry me by force among their own people, I might be 
ill used for my kindness to them, and make my case worse than it 
was before. 

He answered, with a great deal of candour and ingenuousness, 
that their condition was so miserable, and they were so sensible 
of it, that, he believed, they would abhor the thought of using 
any man unkindly that should contribute to their deliverance; 
and that if I pleased, he would go to them with the old man, and 
discourse with them about it and return again, and bring me 
their answer; that he would make conditions with them upon 
their solemn oath, that they should be absolutely under my lead- 
ing, as their commander and captain ; and that they should swear 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



200 ADVENTURES OF 

upon ^ holy sacraments and gospel, to be true to me, and go 
to sach Chrii^iaa country as that I should agree to, and no other, 
and to be directed wholly and absolutely by my orders, till they 
were landed safely in such country as I intended; and that he 
would bring a contract from them, under their hands, for that pur- 
pose. Then he tM me he would first swear to me himself, that he 
would never stir frcnn me as long as he lived, till I gave him orders; 
and ttfat he would take my side to the last drop of his blood, if there 
should happen the least breach of faith among lus countrymen. He 
told me they were all of them very civil, honest men, and they were 
under the greatest distress imaginable, having neitiier wea^ns nor 
clothes, nor any food, but at the mercy and discretion of the sav- 
ages ; out of aU hopes of ever returning to their own CQuntry ; and 
that he was sure, if I would undertake their relief, they would live 
and die by me. 

Upon tiiese assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve them, if 
possible, and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over to 
them to treat. But when we had got all things in readiness to 
go, the Spaniard himself started an objection, which had so much 
prudence in it, on one hand, smd so much sincerity on the other 
hand, that I could not but be very- well satisfied in it; and, by his 
advice, put off the deliverance of his comrades for at least half a 
year. The case was Hius: He had been with us now about a 
month, during which time I had let him see in what manner I had 
provided, with the assistance of Providence, for my support; 
and he saw evidently what stock of corn and ricevJ had laid up ; 
which, though it was more than sufficient for myi!!f, yet it was 
not sufficient, without good husbandry, for my family, now it was 
increased to four ; but much less would it be sufficient if his country, 
men, who were, as he said, sixteen, still alive, should come over ; 
and, least of all, would it be sufficient to victual our vessel, if we 
should build one, for a voyage to any one of the Christian colonies 
of America ; so he told me he thought it would be more advisable 
to let him and the other two dig and cultivate some more land, 
as much as I could spare seed to sow, and that we should wait 
another harvest, that we might have a supply of com for his 
countrymen, when they should come ; for want might be a temp- 
tation to them to disagree, or not to think themselves delivered, 
or otherwise than out of one difficulty into another. You know, 
says he, the children of Israel, tiiough they rejoiced at first for 
their being delivered out of Egypt, yet rebelled even against God 
himself, that delivered them, when they came to want bread in the 
wilderness. 

His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, that I 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRiriOB. 301 

coaM sot Imt be Tery w^ pleased with hu propoaal, as well as I 
was satisfied with his fidelity : so we fell to digging all four of us, as 
well as the wooden tools we were furnished with permitted ; and in 
about a month^s time^ by the end of which it was seed-time, we had 
got as much land cured and trinH&ed up as we sowed two-^nd- 
twenty bushels of barley on, and sixteen jais of rioe ; which was, in 
short, all the seed we had to spare : nor, indeed, did we leave our- 
selves barely sufficient fyr wa own food, ibr "the six months that we 
had to expect our crop ; that is to say, reckoning irom the time we 
set our seed aside for sowing ; for it is not to be supposed it is six 
moirths in the ground in that counky. 

Having now society enough, and our number being sufficient to 
put us out of fear of the savages, if they had come, unless their 
nmnber had been very great, we went freely all over ^ island, 
whenev^ we found occasion ; aad as here we had our escape or 
delivdrance upon our thoughts, it was impossiUe, at least for me, to 
have the means of it out of mind. For this purpose, I marked out 
several trees which I tiiought fit for our work, and I set Friday and 
his fa^er to cutting them down ; and then I caused the Spaniard, 
to whom I imparted my thought on that afl^r, to oversee and direct 
their worit. I showed them with what indefatigable pains I had 
hewed a large tree into single planks, and I caused them to do the 
like, till they had made about a dosen large planks of good oak, 
near two feet broad, tiiirty-five feet long, and from two inches to 
four inches thick : what prodigious labour it took up, ai^ one may 
imagme. 

At the same time, I eon^ved to increase my little flock of 
tame goats as much as I could ; and, for this purpose, I made 
Friday and the Spaniard go out one day, and myself with Friday 
the next day (for we took our turns), and by tiiis means we got 
about twenty young kids to breed up with the rest ; for whenever 
we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and added t^m to our 
flock. But, above all, the season for curing ibe grapes commg 
on, I caused such a {nrodigious <]^umtity to be hung up in the 
sun, that, I believe, Imd we been at Alicant, where the raisins 
of the sun are cured, we eould have filled sixty or eighty bar- 
rels ; ai^ these, with our bread, was a great part of our ibod, 
and was very good living too, I assure you, for it is exceeding 
nourishing. 

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order : it was not 
the most plentiful increase I had seen in the island, but, however, 
it wai»enough to answer oar end ; for from twenty-two bushels 
of barley we brought in and threshed out above two hundred and 
twraty bushels, aad the like in proporticm of the rice; whiob 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



202 AOTSNTVftSS or 

was stoze enough Ibr our Ibed to tke next hftrrect) Hioiigli all tibe 
sixteen Spaniards had been on shore with me; or if we had been 
ready for a yoyage, it would very plentifnlly lunre Tiotualled oar 
ship to have earried us to any part of the world, that is to say, any 
part of America. When we had thus housed and secured our mag- 
azine of com, we fell to work to make more wickerware, viz. great 
baskets, in which we kept it ; and the Spsuniard was very handy 
and dexterous at this part, and often tdamed me that I did not make 
some things for de&noe of this kind of work ; bat I saw no need 
of it. 

And now having a full supfiiy o( food for all 4he guests I ex- 
pected, X gave the ^>a&kird leave to go over to the mun, to see 
what he could do with those he had left behind him there. I 
gave him a strict charge not to Imng any man with him who 
wodd not &:st swear, in the presence of himself and the old 
savage, that he would no way mjure, fight with, or attack the 
person he shcndd &id in l^e island, who was so lund as to send 
for them in order to ^eir d^veranee ; but that ^y would stand 
by him, and defend him against aH such attempts, and wherever 
they went, worid be entire^ under and subjected to his com- 
mand; smd tjlat this should be put in writii^, and ngaed with 
their hands. How tJiey were to have done this, when I knew 
ihey had ne^er pen nor ink, was a questi^i vi^ueh we never 
a^ed. Under asmo instructiDns, ^e Spaniard and the old 
savage, the father of Friday, went away in one <tf ^ canoes 
which they might be said to come in, or rs^er were brought in, 
when they came as pnsoners to be devoured by tl^ sav^ea I 
gave each of them a musket, with a firelock on it, and about 
eight charges of powder and ball, <^arg^ them to be very good 
husbands of both, and not to use eitiier of them but upon urgent 
occasions. 

This was a cheerful wwk, being the first measures used by me, 
in view of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven 3Fears and some 
days. I gave them provisions of bread, and of dried grapes, 
si^cient for themselves for many days, and sufficient for all the 
Spaniards for about eight dajrs' time ; and wishing them a good 
voyage, I saw them go ; agreeing with ihem about a signal they 
i^ould hang out at their return, by which I i^oidd know them 
again, when they came back, at a distance, before they eame on 
shore. They went away with a fair gale, on the day that the 
moon was at full, by my aoconi^ in the month of October ; but 
as for an exact reckoning of days, after I had once lost itiJ could 
never recover it agtin ; nor had I kept even the number of years 
80 punctuBlly as to be sure I was right ; though, as it proved^ 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 203 

when I afterwards examined n^ account, I found I had kept a tme 
reckoning of years. 

It was no less than eight days I had waited for them, when a 
strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like has 
not perhaps heen heard of in history. I was fast asleep in mj 
hutch one morning, when my man Friday came running in to me, 
and called aloud, Master, master, they are come, they are come ! 
I jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went out as soon as I 
could get my clothes on, throi^gh my little grove, which, hy the 
way, was by this time grown to be a very thick wood ; I say, re- 
gardless of danger, I went without my arms, which it waS not my 
custom to do : but I was surprised, when turning my eyes to the 
sea, I presently saw a boat at about a league and a half distance, 
standing in for the shore, with a shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they 
call it, and the wind blowing pretty fidr to bring them in : also I 
observed presently, that they did not come fir<Hn that side which 
Ihe shore lay on, but from the southernmost end of the island. 
Upon this, I called Friday in, and bade him lie close, for these 
were not the people we looked for, and that we might not know 
yet whedier they were friends or enemies. In the next place, I 
went in to fetch my perspective-glass, to see what I could make 
of them ; and having taken the ladder out, I climbed up to the 
top of the hill, as I used to do when I was apprehensive of any 
thing, and to take my view the plainer, without being discovered. 
I had scarce set my foot upon the lull, when my eye plainly dis- 
covered a ship lying at an anchor, at about two leagues and a 
half distance from me, S. S. E., but not above a league and a 
half from the shore. By my observation, it appeared plainly to 
be an English shq), and the boat appeared to be an English long- 
boat. 

I cumot express the confusion I was m : though the joy of see- 
ing a ship, and one that I had reason to believe was manned by my 
own countr3rmen, and consequently friends, was such as I cannot 
describe ; but yet I had some secret doubts hang about me — I can- 
not tell from whence they came, bidding me keep upon my guard. 
In the first place, it occurred to me to consider what business an 
English ship could have in that part of the world, since it was not 
the way to or from any part of the world where the English had 
any traffic ; and I knew there had been no storms to drive them in 
tiiere, as in distress ; and that if they were really English, it was 
most probable that they, were here upon no good design ; and that I 
had better continue as I was, than fell into the hands of thieves and 
murderers. 

Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of danger. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



204 ADVENTURES OF 

which sometimes are given him when he may tiiink there is no 
possibility of its being reaL That such hints and notices are given 
us, I believe few that have made any observations of things can 
deny ; that they are certain discoveries of an invisible world, and 
a converse of spirits, we cannot doubt ; and if the tendency of 
them seems to be to warn us of danger, why should we not suppose 
they are from some friendly agent (whether supreme, or inferior 
and subordinate, is not the question), and that they are given for our 
good? 

The present questicm abundantly confirms me in the justice of 
this reasoning: for had I not been made cautious by this secret 
admonition, come it from whence it will, I had been undone in- 
evitahly, and in a far worse condition than before, as you will 
see presently. I had not kept myself long in this posture, but I 
saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek to 
thrust in at, for the convenience of landing; however, as they 
did not come quite far enough, they did not see the little inlet 
where I formerly landed my rafts, but run their boat on shore 
upon the beach, at about half a mile from me, which was very 
happy for me ; for otherwise they would have landed just at my 
door, as I may say, and would soon have beaten me out of my 
castle, and perhaps have plundered me of all I had. When they 
were oa shore, 1 was fully satisfied they were Englishmen, at 
least most of them ; one or two I thought were Putch, but it did 
not prove so ; there were in all eleven men, whereof three of them 
I found were unarmed, and, as I thought, bound; and when thd 
first four or five of them were jumped on shore, they took those 
three out of the boat, as prisoners : one of the three I could per- 
ceive using the most passionate gestures of entreaty, affliction, and 
despair, even to a kind of extravagance ; the other two, I could 
perceive, lifted up their hands sometimes, and appeared concerned, 
indeed, but not to such a degree as the first. I was perfectly con- 
founded at the sight, and knew not what the meaning of it should be. 
Friday called out to me in English, as well as he could, O masterl 
you see English mans eat prisoner as well as savage mans.^-Why, 
Friday, says I, do you think they are going to eat themi — ^Yes, 
says Friday, they will eat them. — No, no, says I, Friday ; I am 
afiaid they will murder them, mdeed, but you may be sure they will 
not eat them. 

All this while I had no thought of what the matter really veas, 
but stood trembling with the horror of the sight, expecting every 
moment when the three prisoners should be killed ^ nay, once I 
saw one of the villains lift up his arm with a great cutlass, as the 
seamen call it» or sword, to strike one of the poor me^i ; and I 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



B0BIN90N CRUSOE. 205 

expected to see him fall every nK»nent ; a4; which all the blood in 
my body seemed to run chill in my v^s. I wished heartily now 
for my Spaniard, and the savage that was gone with him, or that 
I had any way to havo come undiscovered within shot of them, 
that I might have rescued the three men, for I saw no fire-arms 
they had among them ; but it fell out to my mind anoUier way. 
After I had observed the outrageous usage of the- three men by 
the insolent seamen, I obs< iring about 

the island, as if they wante served that 

the three other men had Ij y pleased; 

but they sat down all thre ;nsive. and 

looked like men in despaii if the first 

time when I came on short ne ; how I 

gave myself over for lost ; me ; what 

dreadful apprehensions I hi le tree all 

night, for fear of being d Vs I -knew 

nothing, that night, of the supply I was to receive by the pro- 
vidential driving of the ship nearer the land by thb storms and 
tide, by which I have since been so long BouriEbed and sup- 
ported ; so these three poor desolate men knew nothing how cer- 
tain of deliverance and su{^y they were, how near It was to them, 
and how efiectually and really they were in a condition of safety, 
at ^e same time that they thought tiiemselves lost, and their 
case desperate. So little do we see before us in the world, and 
«o much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon the great 
Maker of the world, that he does not leave his creatures so 
absolutely destitute, but that, in the worst circumstances, they 
have always something to be thankful for, and sometimes lure 
nearer their deHveranoe than they miagine ; nay, are even brought 
to their deliverance by the means by which tl^y seem to be 
brought to tiieir destruction. 



Digitized by VjOOQ iC 



SECTION XXVI. 

BOBIKaON DI8C0VSBS HIMSBLr TO THE KN0LI8B CArTAXN.— 'ASSISTS HOf 
IN BSDUCING HIS MUTINOUS CBBW,— WHO SUBMLT TO HIM. 

It was just at tlie top of high water when these people came on 
shcnre ; and partly while they rambled about to see what kind of 
a place they were in, they had carelessly stayed till the tide was 
^nt, and the water was ebbed considerably away, leaving their 
boat aground. They had left two men in the boat, -who, as I found 
afterwards, having drank a Utde too much brandy, fell asleep; 
however, one of them waking a little sooner than the other, and 
finding the boat too fast aground for him to stir it, hallooed out 
for the rest, who were straggling about ; upon which they all soon 
came to tiie boat : but it was past all their strength to launch her, 
the boat being very heavy, and the shore on that side being a soft 
oozy sand, almost like a quick sand. In this condition, like true 
seamen, who are perhaps the least of all mankind given to fore- 
thought, they gave it over, and away they strolled about the coun- 
try again ; and I heard one of them say aloud to another, caUing 
them oiF from the boat, Why, let her alone. Jack, can't you 1 she'll 
float next tide : by which I was fully confirmed in the main inquiry 
of what countrymen they were. All this while I kept myself very 
close, not once daring to stir out of my castle, any fisirther than 
to my place of observation, near the top of the hill ; and very 
glad I was to think how well it was fortified. I knew it was no 
less than ten hours before the boat could float again, and by that 
time it would be dark, and I might be at more liberty to see their 
motions, and to hear their discourse, if they had any. In the 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



tOBmsoN cituiox. 307 

mean time, I fitted myself up for s battle, as before, iboiigfa with 
more caution, knowmg I had to do with mother kind of enemy 
than I had st ftrst. I ordered* Friday also, whom I had made an 
excellent maricsmsn with his gun, to load himself with arms. I 
took myself two fowling-iHeces, and I gave him three raHsicets. 
My figttre, indeed, was very fierce ; I had my formidable goats' 
skin coat on, with the great c^ I have mentio&ed, a naked 
sword by my side, two pistols in n^ belt, and a gmi upon each 
fliioalder. 

It was my design, as I said a^ove, not to halve made any attempt 
tin it was dark : bat about two o'doek, being the heat of the day, 
I focmd that, in short, they were aU gone straggiing into the woods, 
and, as Ithonght) laid down to sle^. The three poor distressed 
men, too anxious for their condkion to get any sleep, were, how- 
ever, sat down under the shelter of a great tree, at about a qftar- 
ter of a mfle from me, and, as I thought, out of nght of any of 
the rest. Upon ^is I resolved i& discover myself to them, and 
learn something of their condition ; immediately I marehed in the 
figure as above, my man Friday at a good distance behind me, as 
fonnidable for his arms as I, but not making quite so staring a 
i^)ectre-like figure as I did. I came as near them undiscovered as 
I could, and thra, before ai^ of them saw me, I called aloud to 
&em in Spanish, What are ye, gentlemen ? They started up at 
the noise ; but were ten times more confounded when they saw 
me, and the uncouth figure that I made. They made no answer 
St aH, but I thought I perceived them just going to fly from me, 
when I spoke to tiiem in English : Genttemen^ said I, do not be 
surprised at me : perhaps you may have a friend near, when you 
did not expect it He must be sent directly from Heaven then, 
said one of them very gravely to me, and pidling off his hat at &e 
same time to me ; for oar condition is past the help of naan. All 
help is from Heaven, sir, said I : But can you put a stranger in the 
way how to help you ? for you seem to be in some great distress. I 
saw you when you landed ; uid when you seemed to make supfdica- 
tion to the brutes &at came with you, I saw one of them lift up his 
sword to kill you. 

. The poor man, wi& tears nmmng dowti his face, and trembling, 
looking 4ike one astonished, returned, Am I talking to God or 
man? Is it a real man or an angeH Be in no fear about that, 
sir, said I ; if God had sent an angel to relieve you, he would have 
come better closed, and armed after another mamier than you 
see me ; pray^ lay aside your foars ; I am a man, an Englishman, 
and disposed to assist you : yon see I have one servant only : we 
have arms and ammunition; tell us freely, can we lerve you? 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



208 JU>TBNTURS8 QV . 

What' is your oase T*— Our caoe, said he^ sir^ is too long to t^ yon, 
while our murcbrers are so near us ; but, in short, sir, I was com- 
^ ihander of that ship ; my men hav^ mutinied against me ; they have 
been hardly prevailed on not to murder me ; and at last have set 
me on shore in this desolate place, with these two men with me, 
one my mate, the other a passenger, where we expected to perish, 
believing the place to be uninhabited, and know not yet what to, 
thmk of it. — ^Where are these brutes, your enemies T said I : Do 
you know where they are gone? — ^There they lie, sir, said he, 
pointing to a thicket of tiroes; my heart trembles for fear they 
have seen us, and heard you speak ; if they have, they will cer- 
tainly murder us all. Have they any fire-arms? said I. He an- 
sw3red they had only two pieces, one of which they lefl in the 
boat Well then, said I, leave the rest to me ; I see they are all 
asleep ; it is an easy thing to kill them all : but shall we rather 
take them prnoners? He told me there were two desperate vil- 
lains among tbem, that it was scarce safe to show any mercy to ; but ^ 
if they were secured, he believed adl the rest would return to their 
duty. I asked him which they were ? He told me he couid not 
at that distance distiogubh them, but he would obey my orders in ^ 
any thing I would direct. Weil, says I, let us retreat out of their 
view or hearing, lest tibtey awake, and we will resolve furtijer. 
So tiiey willingly went bade with me, till the woods covered us fxom. 
them. 

Look you, sir, said I, if I ventore upon your deliverance, are 
you willing to nmke two conditions with me ? He antici|>ated my 
proposals, by telling me, that bo^ he and the ship, if recovered, 
should be whdly directed and commanded by me in every thing ; 
and, if the ship was not recovered, he would live and die with me 
in what part of the world soever I wcmld send him ; and the two 
other men said tiie same. Well, says I, my conditi(ms are but two : 
first, that while you stay in this i&dand w^ me, you will not pre- 
tend to any authority here ; and if I put arms in your hands, you 
will, upon all occasions, give them up to me, and do no prejudice 
to me or mine upon this island ; and, in the mean time, be gov- 
erned by my orders : secondly, That if the ship is, or may be 
recovered, you will earry me and my man to England passage 
free. 

He gave me all the asmiranoes that Uie invention or faith of man 
could devise^ that he would ccmiply with these most reasonable 
demands ; and, besides, would owe his life to me, and acknow- 
ledge it upon all occasions, as loi^ as he lived. Well then, sai^ 
I, here are tiiree muskets for you, with powder and ball : tell me 
next wkaf you think is proper to be done. He showed all the 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



B0BIN8ON CRUSOE. 209, 

testimonies of his gratitodo that he was able, hut ofi^ed to he 
wholly guided hy me. I told him I thought it was hard venturing 
any thing ; but the. best me^Mxl I could think of was to fire upon 
ihem at once, as they lay, and if any was not killed at the ^st 
Tolley, and offered to submit, we might save them, and so put it 
wholly upon God's providence to direct the shot. He said very 
modestly, that he was loath to kill them, if he could help it : but 
that those two were incorrigible villains, and had been the authors 
of all the mutiny in the- ship, and if they escaped, we should be 
undone still; for they would go on board and bring the whole 
sh^)^s company, and destroy us aU. Well then, says I, necessity 
legitimates my advice, for it is the only way to save our lives. 
However, seeing him still cautious of lidding blood, I told 
him they should go themselves, and manage as they found con- 
venient. 

In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them awake, 
and soon after we saw two of them on their feet I asked him if 
either of them were the heads of the mutiny 1 He said no. Well 
then, said I, you may let them escape ; and Providence seems to 
have awakened them on purpose to save themselves. . Now, says 
I, if the rest escape you. It is your fault. Animated with this, he 
took the musket I had given him in his hand, and a pistol in his 
belt, and his two comrades with him, with each a piece in his 
hand ; the two men who were with him going first, made some 
noise, at which one of the seamen who was awake turned about, 
and seeing them coming, cried out to the rest; but it was too 
late then, for the moment he cried out they fired; I mean the 
two men, the captain wisely reserving 4is own piece. They had 
so well aimed their shot at the men they knew, that one of them 
was killed on the spot, and the other very much wounded ; but 
not being dead, he started up on his feet, and called eagerly for 
help to the other ; but the captain stepping to him, told him it was 
too late to cry for help, he should call upon God to forgive his vil- 
lany ; and with that word knocked him down with the stock of his 
musket, so that he never spoke more : there were three more in the 
company, and one of them wras also slightly wounded. By this 
time I was come ; and when they saw their chmger, and that it was 
in vain to resist, they begged for mercy. The captain told them he 
would spare their lives, if they would give him any assurance of 
their abhorrence of the treachery they had been guil^ of, and would 
swear to be faithful to him in recovering the ship, and afterwards in 
carrying her back to Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave 
him all the protestations of their sincerity that could be desired, and 
he was willing to believe them, and spare their lives, which I was 

18* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



210 ADrENT^URES OP 

not against, only timt I obliged him to keep them bdund Yixtai and 
foot while they were on the island. 

While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's mate to 
the boat, with orders to secure her, and bring away the oars and 
sails, which they did : and by and by tiiree straggling ihen, that were 
(happily for them) parted from the rest, came back upon hearing the 
guns fired, and seeing the captain, who before was their prisoner, 
now their conqueror, &ey submitted to be bound also ; and so our 
rictory was complete. 

It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into one 
another's circumstances; I began firsi, and told him my whole 
history, which he heard with an attention even to amazement; 
and particularly at the wonderful manner of my being furnished 
with provisions and ammunition; and, indeed, as my story is a 
whole collection of wonders, it affected him deeply. But when he 
reflected from thence upon himself, and how I seemed to hare been 
preserved there on purpose to save his life, the tears ran down his 
face, and he could not spedc a word more. After this communica- 
tion was at an end, I carried him and his two men into my apart- 
ment, leading them in just where I came out, viz. at the top of the 
house, where I refreshed them with such provisions as I had, and 
showed them all the contrivances I had made, during my long, long 
inhabiting that place. 

All I showed them, all 1 said to them, was perfectly amazing ; 
but, above all, the captain admired my fortification, and how per- 
fectly I had concealed my retreat with a grove of trees, which, 
having been now planted near twenty years, and the trees grow- 
ing much faster than in England, was become a little wood, and 
so thick, that it was impassable in any part of it, but at that one. 
side where I had reserved my little winding passage into it. I 
told him this was my castle and ray residence, but that I had a 
seat in the country, as most princes have, whither I could retreat 
upon occasion, and I would show him that too another time : but 
at present our business was to consider how to recover the ship. 
He agreed with me as to that ; but told me, he was perfectly at a 
loss what measures to take, for that there were still six-and-twenty 
hands on board, who having entered into a cursed conspiracy, by 
which they had all forfeited their lives to the law, would be har- 
dened in it now by desperation, and would carry it on, knowing 
that, if they were subdued, they would be brought to the gallows, as 
soon as they came to England, or to any of the English colonies ; 
and that, therefore, there would be no attacking them with so small 
a number as we were. 

I muaed for some time upon what he had said, and found it was 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRU80X. 211 

a very ratiomd conclusion, and ttiat, therefore, something was to 
be resolved on speedHy, as weU to draw the men en board into 
some snare for their surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us, 
and destroying us. Upon this, it presently occurred to me, that in 
a Httle while the ship's crew, wondering what was become of 
their comrades, and of the boat, would certainly come on shore in 
Hieir other boat, to look for them; and that then, perhaps, they 
mif^ come armed, and be too strong for us : this he allowed to 
be rational. Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to do was 
io stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so that they might not 
carry her off: and taking every thing out of her, leave her so far 
useless as not to be fit to swim : accordingly we went on board, took 
the arms which were left on board out of her, and whatever else we 
found there, which was a bottle of brandy, and another of rum, a 
few biscuit-cakes, a horn of powder, and a great lump of sugar in a 
piece of canvass (the sugar was tte or six pounds) ; aK which was 
very welcome to me, especially the brandy and sugar, of which I had 
none left for many years. 

When we had carried all these things on shore (the oars, mast, 
sail, and rudder of the boat were carried away before, as above), we 
knocked a great hole in her bottom ; that if they had come strong 
enough to master us, yet ^ey could not carry off the boat. Indeed 
it was not much in my thoughts that we could be able to recover the 
ship ; but my view was, that if they went away without the boat, I 
did not much question to make her fit again to carry us to the Lee- 
ward Islands, and call upon our friends the Spaniards in my way ; 
for I had them stUl in my thoughts. 

While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by 
main strength, heaved ^e boat upon the beach, so high that the 
tide would not float her off at high water mark, and, besides, had 
broke a hole in her bottom too big to be quickly stopped, and were 
set down musing what we should do, we heard the ship fire a gun, 
and saw her make a waft with her ensign as a signal for the boat 
to come on board: but no boat stirred; and they fired several 
times, making other signals for the boat. At last, when all their 
signals and firing proved fruitiess, and they found tiie boat did not 
sttr, we saw them, by the help of my glasses, hoist another boat out, 
and row towards the shore ; and we found, as they approached, that 
there were no less than ten men in her, and that they had fire-arms 
witii them. 

As tiie ship lay almost two leagues from Uie shore, we had a 
full view of ^m as they came, and a plain sight even of their 
races ; because ike tide liuEiving set them a little to the east of the 
other boat, they rowed up under diore, to come to the same place 



Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



212 ADVENTURES OF ' 

9 

where the other had landed, and where the boat lay; hy this 
means, I say, we had a full view of them, and the captain knew 
the persons and characters of all the men in the boa^, of whom, 
he said, there were three very honest fellows, who, he was sure, 
were led into this conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered and 
frightened ; but that as for the boatswain, who, it seems, was the 
chief officer among them, and all the rest, they were as outrage- 
ous as any of the ship^s crew, and wexe no doubt made desg^terate 
in their new enterprise; and terribly apprehensive he was that 
they would be too powerful Tor us. I smiled at him, and told him 
that men in our circumstances were past the operation of fear; 
that seeing aknost every condition that could be was better than 
that which we were supposed to be in, we ought to expect that the 
consequence, whether deatii or life, would be sure to be a deliver- 
ance. I asked him what he thought of ^e circumstances of my 
life, and whether a deliverance were not worth venturing for? 
And where, sir, said I, is your belief of my being preserved here 
on purpose to save your life, which elevated you a little while ago ? 
for my part, said I, there seems to me but one thing amiss in all 
the prospect of it What is that? says he. Why, said I, it is, 
that as you say there are three or four honest fellows among them, 
whicfi^ should be spared ; had they been all of the wicked part of 
the crew, I should have thought God's providence had singled 
them out to deliver them. into your hands; for depend upon it, 
every man that comes ashore are our own, and shall die or live as 
they behave to us. As I spoke this with a raised voice and cheer- 
ful countenance, I found it greatly encouraged him ; so we set vig- 
orously to our business. 

We had, upon the first appearance of the boat's coming from 
the ship, conj^idered of separating our prisoners ; and we had, 
indeed, secured ikem effectually. Two of them, of whom the 
captain was less assured than ordinary^ I sent with Friday, and 
one of the three delivered men, to my cave, where they were 
remote enough, and out of danger of being heard or discovered, 
or of finding their way out of the woods if they could have delivered 
themselves : here they left them bound, but gave them provisions ; 
and promised them, iif they continued there quietly, to give them 
their liberty in a day or two ; but that if they attempted their es- 
cape, they should be pat to death witliout mercy. They promised 
faithfully to bear tbeir confinement with patience, and were very 
thankful th^ they had such good usage as to have provisions and 
light left them ; for Friday gave them candles (such as we made 
ourselves) for their comfort; and they did not know but that he 
stood sentinel over them at the entrance. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SOBmSON <mi780E. ZIB 

« 
The oliier priBoneis Ind ^[>6ttef usage ; two of them were kept 
pinioned, indeed, beeause the oaptoin was not free to trust them ; 
but the other two were taken mto my senrice, upon ^e captain's 
Teoommendation, and upon their sdemnly e^^aging to live and 
die with us; so with them and the tiuree honest men we were 
seven men well armed ; and I made no doubt we should be able 
to deal weU enough with the ten that were eoming, considering 
&at the captain had sud there were three or four honest men 
among them sdso. As soon as they got to the place where their 
other boat lay, they ran their boat into the beach, and came ail 
6n shore, hauling the boat up after them, which I was glad to 
see ; for I vras afraid ^ey would ra^r have left Uie boat at an 
anchor, some distance from the shore, wiih some Imnds in her, to 
guard l^r, and so we should not be aUe to seize the boat Being 
on ^lore, the irst thing they did, they ran all to their other boat; 
and it was easy to see they weire under a great surfnrise to Jind 
her stripped, as above, of all that was in her, and a great hole in 
her bottom. Ai^r they hsA mused a while upon this, they set up 
two or three great shouts, hallooing with aU their might, to try if 
they could make their companions hear ; but all was to no purpose : 
then they eame all close in a ring, and fired a volley of their smsUl 
arms, which, indeed, we heard, and the echoes made the woods 
ring ; but it was all one ; those in the cave we were sure could 
not hear, and those in our keeping, though -they heard it well 
enough, yet durst give no answer to them. They were so aston- 
ished at the surprise of this, that, as they told us afterwards, ^ey 
resolved to go all on board again, to their sMp, and let them know 
^at the men wete all murdered, and the long-boat staved ; accord- 
mgly, they immediately lauadied their boat again, and got all of 
them on board. 

The captain was terribly«mazed, and even confounded at this, 
believing tiiey would go on board the ship again, and set sail, giving 
tiieir comrades over lor lost, and so he should still lose the ship, 
which he was in hopes we should have recovered, biri; he was quickly 
as much frightened the other ^^y. 

They had ncrt been long put off with the boat, but fe perceived 
them all conung on shore again; but with this new measure in 
ttieir cmiductr which it seems they consulted together upon, viz. 
to leave iAaee men m the boat, aitd the rest to go on shore, and 
go up into the coun^ to look for their fellows. This was a 
great disappointment to us, for now we were at a loss what to 
do; as our seizing those seven men on shore would be no ad- 
vantage to US, if we let the boat escape ; because they would 
then row away to the^ ship, and then the rest of them would bo 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



214 ▲STBNTVmXS Of 

9 

sore to wei^ and sel sail, aad fto wa reeoracaig ito Mp wodd 
be Idst. Howerer, we had n» lemedy btzl to wait and aee wlial 
the wBoe of thiogs migkt present. The seven men came on 
^ore, and the three who reoudned in the boat pnt her off to a 
good distaaee from the tihate, and eame to an anchor to wait for 
them ; so* that it was imfMissible for us to come at them in the 
boat. Those that came on shore, kept close together, marching 
towards the top of the htde lull under which my habitation 1^ ; and 
we could see them plainly, thou^ they eould not pereeite niu 
We C9fdd have been very glad diey would have come nearer to 
us, so Uiat we might hare fired at them, or that they wcnild hare 
gone fhrther off, tiiat we might have come abroad. But when 
they were come to the Inrow of the hiU, where ^y coidd see « 
great way into the valleys and woods, which lay towards the 
north-east purt, and where the icdand lay lowest, they shouted 
and hallooed till they were weary; and not caring, it seems, to 
venture 1^ from the shove, nor &r from one another, they sal 
down together under a tree, to censi^^ of it Had they 
thought fit to have gone to deep there, as the other part of 
them had done, they had done the job fi>r us; hxA they wiere 
too full of apprehenmons of danger to venture to go to sle^ 
though they could not tell what the dsmger was they had to feuf 
neither. 

The captain made a very jasA proposal to me upon tiiis con^ 
suHatkm of theirs, viz. that perhaps they wotdd all fire a votiey 
again, to endeavonr to make their fellows hear, and that we 
should all sally upon them, just at the juncture when their pieeea 
were all discharged) and they would certainly 3rield, and we ^oald 
have them without bloo<lBhed. I liked tiiis poroposal, provided it 
was done while we were near enough to come up to them before 
they could load their pieces again. B«t tins event did not happen ; 
and we lay still a long time, very irresoluto what coarse to take. 
At length I told them there would be nothing done, in my opinion* 
till night ; and then, if ^ey did not return to ^ boat, peihaps we 
might find a way to get between them and the i^oce, and so migh* 
use some st^tagem vrith them in the boat to get them on i^ore. 
We waited a great while, though very m^wtient for their removing ; * 
and were very uneasy, vdien, after long consultations, we saw them 
all start up, and march down towards the sea; it seems they had 
such dreadful apprehensions upon them of the danger of the places 
that they resolved to go on board the ship again, give their com- 
panions over for lost, and so go on with their iiitendisd voyage with 
the ship. 

As soon as I perceived them to go towards the shore, I imagined 



Digitized 



by Google 



ROBIlTfON CRTTiOB. 215 

it to be, as it really was, Uu^ they had giyen over tkeur search, and 
were for going back again ; and the captain, as soon as I told him 
my thoughts, was ready to sink at tlie apprehensions of it : but I 
presently thought of a stratagem to fetch them back again, and 
which answered my end to a tittle. I ordered Friday and the cap* 
taints mate to go over the little creek westward, towards the place 
where the savages came on shore when Friday was rescued, and aa 
soon as they came to a little rising ground, at about half a mile dis« 
tance, I bade them halloo out, as loud as they could, and wait till 
they found the seamen heard them ; that as soon as ever they heard 
the seamen answer them, they should return it again; and then 
keeping out of sight, take a round, always answering when the 
others hallooed, to draw them as far into the island, and among the 
woods, as possible, and then wheel about again to me, by such ways 
as I directed them. 

They were just going into the boat when Friday and the mate 
halk)oed: and they presently heard them, a^d answering, run 
along tl^ shore westward, towards the voice they heaurd, when 
Uiey were presently stopped by the creek, where the water being 
up, they could not get over, and caUed for the boat to come up 
and set them over ; as, indeed, I expected. When they had set 
themselves over, I observed that the boat being gone a good way 
into the creek; and, as it were, in a harbour, within the land, 
they took one of the three men out of her, to go along with them, 
and lei^ only two in the boat, having &stened her to the stump of 
a little tree on the shore. This was what I wished for ; and im^ 
mediately leaving Friday and the captain's mate to their business, 
I took the rest with me, and crossing the creek out of their sight, 
we surprised the two men before they were aware ; one of them 
lying on the shore, and the other bemg in the boat. The fellow 
on shore was between sleeping and waking, and going to start 
up ; the captain, who was foremost, ran in upon him, and knocked 
him down ; and then calling out to him in the boat to yield, or 
he was a dead man. There needed very few arguments to per- 
suade a single man to yield, when he saw five men upon him, 
suid his comrade knocked down ; besides, this was, it seems, one 
of the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as* the rest of 
the crew, and therefore was easily persuaded not only to 3deld, 
but afterwards to join very sincerely with us. In the mean time, 
Friday and the capts^'s mate so well msmaged their business 
with the rest, that they drew them, \yy hallooing and answering, 
from one hill to another, and from one wood to another, till they 
not only heartily tired them, but left them where they were very 
sure th^ could not reach back to ^e boat before it was dark; 



Digitized 



by Google 



216 ADVENTURES OF 

and, indeed, they were heartOy tired themselres also, by the timo 
they came back to us. 

We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the dark, 
and to &11 upon them, so as to make sure work with them. It 
was several hours after Friday came back to me before they came 
back to their boat ; and we could hear the foremost of them, long 
before they came quite up, calling to those behind to come along ; 
and could also hear them answer, and complain how lame and 
tired they were, and not able to come any faster ; which was very 
welcome news to us. At length they came up to the boat : but it 
is /impossible to express their confusion when, they found ^e boat 
fast aground in the creek, the tide ebbed out, and their two men 
gone. We could hear them call to one another in a most lamenta- 
ble manner, telling one another they were got into an enchanted 
island ; that either there were inhabitants in it, and they should all 
be murdered, or else there were devils and spirits in it, and they 
should be all carried away and devoured. They hallooed again, 
and called their two comrades by their names a great many times ; 
but no answer. After some time, we could see them, by the little 
light there was, run about, wringing their hands like men in despair; 
and that sometimes they would go and sit down in the boat, to 
rest themselves : then come ashore again, and walk about again, 
and so the same ^ling over again. My men would &in have had 
me give them leave to fall upon them at once in the dark ; but I 
was willing to take them at some advantage, so to spare them, and 
kill as few of them as I could ; and especially I was unwilling to 
hazard the killing any of our men, knowing the others were very 
well armed. I resolved to wait, to see if they did not separate ; 
and, therefore, to make sure of them, I drew my ambuscade nearer, 
and ordered Friday and the captain to creep upon their hands and 
feet, as close to the ground as they could, that they might not be 
discovered, and get' as near them as they could possibly^ before they 
offered to fire. 

They had not been long in that posture, when the boatswain, 
who was the principal ringleader of the mutiny, and had now 
shown himself the most dejected and dispirited of all the rest, 
came walking towards them, with two more of the crew : the 
captain was so eager at having this principal rogue so much in his 
power, that he could hardly have patience to let him come scf 
near as to be sure of him, for they only heard his tongue before : 
but when they came nearer, the captain and Friday, starting up 
on their feet, let fly at them. The l>oatswain was killed upon the 
spbt ; the next man was shot in the body, and fell just by him, 
^ough he did not die till an hour or two MHj^ ; wd the thhrd ran 



Digitized 



by Google 



AOBIWSOlf CEUSOE. 21 

for it. At the noise ef the ^re^ I immeiSiatelj advance with m j 
whole army, which waa now eight men, viz. myself, generalis- 
simo ; Friday, my lieutenant-general ; the captain and his two 
men, and the three prisoners of war, whom we had trusted with 
firms. We came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that they 
could not see our number ; and I made the man they had left in 
the boat, Nvho was now one of us, to call ti^^m by name, to try if 
I could bring them to a parley, and so might perhaps reduce 
them to terms; which fell out just as we desired: for, indeed it 
was easy to think, as their condition tlien was, they would be 
very willing to capitulate. Sa he calls out, as loud as he could, 
to one of them, Tom Smith! Tom Sn&ith! Tom Smith answered 
immediately. Is that Robinson? For it seems, he knew the 
voice. The other answered. Ay, ay; for God*s sake, Tom 
Smith, dirow down yoor arms and yield, or you are all dead men 
this moment. Who must we yield to ? Where are they ? says 
Smith again* Here they are, says he ; here's our captain and 
fifty men with him, have been hunting yon these two hours : the 
boatswain is killed, Will Fry b wounded, and I am a prisoner ; 
and if you do not yield, you are all lost.^Will they give us quarter 
then ? says Tom SmiUi, and we will yield. — I will go ask* if you 
promise to yield, says Robinson : so he asked the captain : and 
the captain himself then calls out, You, Smith, you know my 
voice ; if you lay down your arms immediately, and submit yoo 
i&all have your lives, all but Will Atkins, 

19 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION xxva 

trtilSB &MTBEAT8 THB CAPTAIN TO S^ABS HIS UFE: — THS LATTSB RaCOVSgS 
HIS VJESSEL F&OM THS ULUTINBERS. — ^AND BOBINSON LEAVES THE ISLAffD. 

Upon this Will Atkins cried out, For God's sake, caption, give 
me quarter ; what have I done ? They have all been as bad as 
I : which, by the way, was not true neither ; for, it se^ms, xYtia 
Will Atkins was the first mairthat laid hold of the captain, wnen 
they first mutinied, and used him barbarously, in tying his hands, 
and giving him injurious language. However, the captain told 
him he must lay down his arms at discretion, and trust to the 
governor's mercy: by which he meant me, for they all ctdled me 
governor. In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged 
their lives ; and I sent the man that had parleyed with them, and 
two more, who bound them all ; and then my great army of fifty 
men, which, particularly with those three, were in all but eight, 
came up and seized upon them, and upon their boat; only that I 
kept myself and one more out of sight for reasons of state. 

Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of seizing the 
ship : and as for the captain, now he had leisure to parley with 
them, he expostulated with them upon the villany of their prac- 
tices with him, and at length upon the further wickedness ot 
their design, and how certainly it must bring them to misery and 
distress in the end, and perhaps to the gallows. They all ap- 
peared very penitent, and begged hard for their lives. As for 
that, he told them they were none of his prisoners* but the com- 
mander^s of the island ; that they thought they had set him on 
shore in a barren, uninhabited island ; but it had pleased Grod so 
to direct them, that it was inhabited, and that the governor was 
an Englishman ; that he might hang them all there, if he pleased ; 
but as he had given them all quarter, he supposed he would send 



Dipitized by VjOOQ IC 



BOBIIfSON CRUSOE. 219 

tLem to England, to be dealt with there as justice required, 
except Atkins, whom he was commanded by the governor to 
advise to prepare for 'death, for that he would be hanged in the 
morning. 

Though all this was but a fiction of his own, yet it had its desired 
effect : Atkins fell upon his knees, to beg the captain to intercede 
with the governor for his life ; and all the rest begged of him, for 
God^s sake, that they might not be sent to England. 

It now occurred to me, that the time of our deliverance was 
come, and that it would be a most easy thing to bring these fel- 
lows in to be hearty in getting possession of the ship ; so I retired 
in the dark from them, that they might not see what kind of a 
governor they had, and called the captain to me : when I called, 
as at a good distance, one of the men w^ ordered to speak again, 
and say to the captain. Captain, the commander calls for you ; and 
presently the captain replied, Tell his excellency I am just a com- 
ing. This more perfectly amused them, and they all believed that 
the commander was just by with his fifty men. Upon the captain's 
coming to me, I told him my project for seizing the ship, which 
he liked wonderfully well, and resolved to put it in execution the 
next morning. But, in order to execute it with more art, and to 
be secure of success, I told him we must divide the prisoners, and 
that he should go and take Atkins, and two more of the worst of 
them, and send them pinioned to the cave where the others lay. 
This was committed to Friday, and the two men who came on 
shore with the captain. They conveyed them to the cave, as to 
a prison : and it was, indeed, a dismal place, especially to n^en in 
their condition. The others I ordered to my bower, as I called 
it, of which I have given a full description ; and as it was fenced 
in, and they pinioned, the place was secure enough, considering 
they were upon their behaviour. 

To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was to enter 
into a parley with them ; in a word, to try them, and tell me whether 
he thought they might be trusted or no to go on board and surprise 
the ship. He talked to them of the injury done him, of the con- 
dition they were brought to, and that though the governor had 
given them quarter for their lives as to the present action, yet that 
if they were sent to England, they would all be hanged in chains, 
to be sure ; but that if they would join in so just an attempt as to 
recover the ship, he would have the governor's engagement for 
their pardon. 

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be ac- 
cepted by men in their cofidition ; they fell down on their knees to 
^ the captain, and promised, with the deepest imprecations, that thoy 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



1^20 ADVEIfTURCS OF 

would be faithful to faim to the last drop, and that they should 
owe their Uves to him, and would go with him all over the world ; 
that they would own him as a father as long as they lived. Well, 
says the captain, I must go and tell the governor what you say, 
and see what I can do to bring him to consent to it. So be 
brought me an account of the temper he found them in,, and that 
he verily believed they would be faithful. However* that we 
might be very secure, I told him he should go back again and 
choose out those five, and tell them, that they might see he did not 
want men, that he would take out those five to be his assistants, 
and that the governor would keep the other two, and the three 
that were sent prisoners to the castle (my cave) as hostages for 
the fidelity of those five ; and that if they proved unfaithful in the 
execution, the five hostages should be hanged in chains alive on the 
shore. This looked sevure, and convinced them that the governor 
was in earnest ; however, they had no way left them but to accept 
it ; and it was now the business of the prisoners, as much as of 
the captain, to persuade the other five to do their duty. 

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition : first, the 
captain, his mate and passenger : second, the two prisoners of the ' 
first gang, to whom, having their character from the captain, I had 
given their liberty, and trusted them with arms : third, the other 
two that I had kept till now in my bower pinioned, but, on the 
captain's motion, had now released : fourth, these five released at 
last ; so that they were twelve in all, besides five we kept prison- 
ers in the cave for hostages. 

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with these hands 
on board the ship : but as for me and my man Friday, I did not 
tliink it was proper for us to stir, having seven men left behind ; 
and it was employment enough for us to keep them asunder, and 
supply them with victuals. As to the five in the cave, I re- 
solved to keep them fast, but Friday went in twice a day to them, 
to supply them with necessaries ; and I made the other two carry 
provisions to a certain distance, where Friday was to take it. 

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the cap- 
tain, who told them I was the person the governor had ordered to 
look after them; and that it was the governor's pleasure tbey 
should not stir any where but by my direction ; that if they did, 
they would be fetched into the castle, and be laid in irons : so that 
as we never suffered them to see me as a governor, I now ap- 
peared as another person, and spoke of the governor, the garrison « 
the castle, and the like, upon all occasions. 

The captain now had no difficulty before him, but to furnish his 
rwo boats, stop the broach of one, and man them. He made his 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOK. 221 

• 

psuMieDger captain of on), with four of the men ; and himself, his 
mate, and five more, went in the odier ; and they contrived their 
business very well, for they came up to the ship about midnight. 
As soon as they came within call of the ship, he made Robinson 
hiul them, and tell them they had brought off the men and the 
boat, but that it was a long time before they had found them, and 
the like, holding them in a chat till they came to the ship's side ; 
when the captain and the mate entering first, with their arms, 
immediately knocked down the second mate and carpenter with 
the but end of their muskets, being very faithfully seconded by 
their men ; they secured all the rest that were upon the main and 
quarter decks, and began to fasten the hatches, to keep them down 
that were below ; when the other boat and their men entering at 
the fore-chains, secured the forecastle of^he ship, and the scuttle 
which went down into the cock-room, making three men they 
found there prisoners. When this was done, and all safe upon 
deck, the captain ordered the mate, with three men, to break into 
the round-house, where the new rebel captain lay, who having 
taken the alarm^ had got up, and with two men and a boy had 
got fire-arms in their hands ; and when the mate, with a crow, 
split open the door, the new captain and his men fired boldly 
among them, and wounded the mate with a musket ball, which 
broke his arm, and wounded two more of the men, but killed no 
body. The mate calling for help, rushed, however, into the round- 
house, wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot the new cap- 
t^n through the head, the bullet entering at his mouth, and came 
out again behind one of his ears, so that he never spoke a word 
more : upon which the rest yielded, and the ship was taken eflfect 
ually, without any more lives lost. 

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered seven 
guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon with me to give 
me notice of his success, which you may be sure I was very glad 
to bear, having sat watching upon the shore for it till near two 
o'clock in the morning. Having thus heard the signal plainly, I 
laid me down ; and it having been a day of great fatigue to me> 
I slept very sound, till I was something surprised with the noise 
of a gun; and presently starting up, I heard a man call me by 
the name of Governor, Governor, and presently I knew the cap- 
tain's voice ; when climbing up to the top of the hill, there he 
stood, and pointing to the ship, he embraced me in his arms. My 
dear friend and deliverer, says he, there's your ship, for she is 
all yours, and so are we, and all that belong to her. I cast my 
eyes to the ship, and there she rode within little more than half a 
mile of the shore ; for they had weighed her anchor as 8^>on nv 

19» 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Zai adtkhturxs of 

the J weie masters of her, and the weather being fair, had brought 
her to an anchor just against the mouth of the little creek ; and 
the tide beii:^ up, the captain had brought the pinnace iunear the 
place where I at first landed my rafts, and so landed just at my 
door. I was at first ready to sink down with the surprise ; for I 
saw my deliverance, indeed, visibly put into my hands, all things 
oasy^ and a large ship just ready to carry me away whither I 
pleased to go. At first, for some time, I was not able to answer him 
one word ; but as he had taken me in hb arms, I held fast by him, 
or I should have fallen to the ground. He perceived the surprise, 
and immediately pulled a bottle out of his pocket, and gave me la 
dram of cordial, which he had brought on purpose for me. Alter 
I had drank it, I sat down upon the ground ; and though it brought 
me to myself, yet it was a good while before I could speak a word 
to him. All this time the poor man was in as great ecstasy as I, 
only not under any surprise, as I was ; and he said a diousand > 
kind and tender ^ings to me, to compose and bring me to myself ' 
but such was the fiood of joy in my breast, that it put all my spirits 
into confusion ; at last it broke out into tears; and in a little while 
after I recovered my speech. I then took my turn, and embraced 
him as my deliverer, and we rejoiced together. I told him I 
looked upon him as a man sent from Heaven to deliver me, and 
that the whole transaction seemed to be a chain of wonders ; that 
such things as these were the testimonies we had of a secret -hand 
of Providence governing the world, and an evidence that the eye 
of an infinite power could search into the remotest comer of tho 
world, and send help to the miserable whenever he pleased. 

When we had talked a while, the captain told me he had brought 
me some little refreshment, such as the ship afforded, and such as 
the wretches that had been so long his masters had not plundered 
him of. Upon this he called aloud to the boat, and bade his men 
bring the things ashore that were for the governor ; and, indeed, 
it was a present as if I had been one that was not to be carried 
away with them, but as if I had been to dwell upon the islaad 
still. First, he had brought me a case of bottles full of excellent 
cordial waters, six lai^e bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles held 
two quarts each), two pounds of excellent good tobacco, twelve 
good pieces of the ship's beef, and six pieces of pork, with a bag 
of peas, and about a hundred weight of biscuit : he also brought 
me a box of sugar, a box of fiour, a bag full of lemons, and two 
bottles of lime juice, and various other things. Besides these he 
brought me six new clean shirts, six very good neckcloths, two 
pair of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one pair of stockings, 
with a very good suit of clothes of his owd which had been worn 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



KOBiirsos cimsoE. 5223 

ottt very litde ; in a word be elotbed me frem head to foot. After 
these ceremonies were past, and after all his good things 
were brought into my little apartment, we began to consult what 
was to be done with the prisoners we bad ; for It was worth con- 
sidering whether we might venture to take them away with us or 
no, especially two of them, whom he knew to be incorrigible and 
refractory to the last degree ; and the captain said he knew they 
were^such rogues, that there was no obliging them ; and if he did 
carry tbem away, it must be in irons, as malefactors, to bo deliver- 
ed over to justice at the first English colony he could come at ; 
and I found that the captain himself was very an:xious about it 
Upon this I told him, that if he demred it, I would undertake to 
bring the two men he spoke of to make it their own request that 
be shouhi leave them upon the island. I should be very glad of 
that, says thecaptaun, with all my heart. — Well, says I, I will send 
for them up, and talk with them for yon. 80 1 caused Friday and 
the two hostages, for they were now discharged, their comrades 
havhig performed their promise ; I say, I caused them to go to the 
cave, and bring up the five men, pinioned as they were, to the 
bower, and keep them there till 1 came. After some time, I came 
thither dressed in my new habit ; and now I was called governor 
again. Being all met, and the captain with me, I caused the men 
to be brought before me, and I told them I had got a full account 
of their villanous behaviour to the captain, and how they had run 
away with the ship, and were preparing to commit farther robber- 
ies, but that Providence had ensnared them in their own ways, and 
that they were fallen into the pit which they had dug for others. 
I let them know that by my direction the ship had been seized ; 
that she lay now in the road ; and they might see, by and by, that 
their new captain had received the reward of his villany, and that 
they would see hint hanging at the yard-arm : that as to them, I 
wanted to know what they had to say why I should not execute 
them as pirates, taken in the fact, as by my commission they could 
not doubt but I had authority so to do. 

One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they had 
nothing to say but this, that when they were taken, the captain 
promised them their lives, and they humbly implored my mercy. 
But I told them I knew not what mercy to show them ; for as for 
myself, I had resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had 
taken passage with the captain to go for England ; and as for the 
captain, he could not carry them to England other than as prison- 
ers, in irons, to be tried for mutiny, and running away with the ship ; 
the consequence of which, they must needs know, would bo the 
gallows : so that I could not tell what was best for them, unless 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



fSSU ABTSKTURCS OF 

tbey had a mind to take their fate in die island ; if diey detmd 
that, as I had liberty to leave the island, I had some inclination to 
give them their lives^ if they thought they could shift on shore. 
They seemed very thankful for it, and said they would much ra • 
ther venture to stay there than be earned to England to be hanged ' 
so I left it on that issue. 

However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of it, as if 
he durst not leave them there. Upon this I seemed a little angry 
with the captain, and told him that they were my prboners, not 
his ; and that seeing I had offered them so much favour, I would 
be as good as my word ; and that if he did not think fit to consent 
to it I would set them at liberty, as I found them ; and if he did 
not like it, he might take them again if he could catch them* 
Upon thb they appeared very thankful, and I accordingly set 
them at liberty, and bade them retire into the woods to the place 
whence they came, and I would leave them some firo-arms, some 
ammunition* and some directions how they should live very well, if 
they thought fit. Upon this I prepared to go on board the ship ; 
but told the captain 1 would stay that night to prepare my things^ 
and desired him to go on board, in the mean time, and keep all 
right in the ship, and send the boat on shore next day fbr me ; 
ordering him, at all events, to cause the new captain, who was 
killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that these men might see 
him. 

When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up to me to my 
apartment, and entered seriously into discourse with them on their 
circumstances. I told them I thought they had made a right 
choice ; that if the captain had carr'ed them away, they would 
certainly be hanged. I showed them the new captain hanging at 
the yard-arm of the ship, and told them, they had nothing less to 
expect. 

When they h^d all declared their willingness to stay, I then told 
them I would let them into the story of my living there, and put 
them into the way of making it easy to them : accordingly, I gave 
them the whole history of the place, and of my coming to it ; 
showed them my fortifications, the way I made my bread, planted 
my corn, cured my grapes ; and, in a word, all that was necessary 
to make them easy* I told them the story also of the seventeen 
Spaniards that were to be expected, for whom I left a letter, and 
made them promise to treat them in common with themselves. 
Here it may be noted, that the captain had ink on board, who was 
greatly surprised that I never hit upon a way of making ink o. 
charcoal and water, or something else, as I had done things much 
uioro difficult. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



KOBINSOir CRtSO£. 225 

I left them my fire-arms, viz. &ve muskets, three foivllng-piecos, 

d three swords. I had above a barrel and a half of powder left; 
or after the first year or two I used bnt little, and wasted none. 
I gave them a description of the way I managed the goats, and 
directions to milk and fatten them, and to make both butter and 
cheese : in a word, I gave them every part of my own story ; and 
told them I should prevail with the captain to leave them two 
barrels of gunpowder more, and some garden seeds, which I told 
them I would have been very glad of : abo I gave them the bag 
of peas which the captain had brought me to eat, and bade them 
be sure to sow and increase them. 

Having done all this, I left them the next day, and went on 
board the ship. We prepared immediately to sail, but did not 
weigh that night. The next morning early, two of the five men 
eame swimming to the ship^s side, and making a most lamentable 
complaint of the other three, begged to be taken into the ship, 
for God's sakOf for they should be murdered, and begged the captain 
to take them on board, though he hanged them immediately. Upon 
this, the captain pretended to have no power without me ; but 
after some difficulty, and after their solenm promises of amend- 
ment, they were taken on board, and were some time after soundly 
whipped and pickled : after which they proved very honest and 
quiet fellows. 

Some time after this, the boat was ordered on shore, the tide 
being up, with the things promised to the men ; to which the 
captain, at my intercession, caused their chests and clothes to 
be added, which they took, and were very thankful for. I also 
encouraged them, by telling them that if it lay in my power to 
send any vessel to take them in, I would not forget them. 

When I took leave of this island, I carried on board, for re- 
liques, ^e great goat-skin cap I had made, my umbrella, and one 
of my parrots ; also I forgot not to take the money I formerly 
mentioned, which had lain by me so long useless, that it was 
grown rusty or tarnished, and could hardly pass for silver, till it 
had been a little rubbed and handled ; as also the money I found 
in the wreck of the Spanish ship. And thus I left the island, the 
19th of December, as I found by the ship's account, in the year 
16S6, after I had been upon it eight-and-twenty years, two 
months, and nineteen days; being delivered from this second 
captivity the same day of the month that I first m^de my escape 
in the long-boat, from among the Moors of Sallee. In this vessel, 
after a long voyage, I arrived in England the 11th of June, in the 
fear 1687, having been thirty-five years absent. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION XXVIII. 

£001NSON GOES TO LISBON^ WHEJIE HE FINDS THE PORTUGUESE CAPTAIN, WHJ 
BENDERS HIM AN ACCOUNT OP HIS PROPERTY IN THE BRAZILS. — SETS OUT O^ 
HIS RETURN TO SVGLAND, BV LAND. 

When I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger to all- 
the world as if I had never been known there. My benefactor 
and faithful steward, whom I had left my money in trust with, 
was alive, but had had great misfortunes in the world ; was be- 
come a widow the second time, and very low in the world. I 
made her very easy as to what she owed me, assuring her I 
would give her no trouble ; but, on the contrary, in gratitude for 
her former care and faithfulness to me, I relieved her as my little 
stock would aflbrd ; which, at that time, would indeed allow me 
to do but little for her ; but I assured her I would never forget 
her former kindness to me ; nor did I forget her when I had suffi- 
cient to help her, as shall be observed in its proper place. I went 
down afterwards into Yorkshire ; but my father and mother were 
dead, and all the family extinct, except that I found two sisters, 
and two of the children of one of my brothers ; and as I had been 
long ago given over for dead, there had been no provision made 
for me : so that, in a word, I found nothing to relieve or assist 
me ; and that the little money I had would not do much for me as 
to settling in the world. 

I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not ex- 
pect ; and this was, that the master of the ship whom I had so 
happily delivered, and by the same means saved the ship and 
cargo, having given a very handsome account to the owners of 
the manner how I had saved the lives of the men, and the ship 
ihoy invited me to meet them, and some other merchants con- 
cerned, and all together made me a very handsome compliment 
upon the subject, and a present of almost two hundred pounds 
•terling. / 



Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



ROBirrsON CRUSOE. 227 

Bat after making several reflections upon the circumstances of 
my life, and how little way this would go towards settling me in 
the world, I resolved to go to Lisbon, and see if I might not come 
by some information of the state of my plantation in the Brazils, 
and what was become of my partner, who, I had reason to sup- 
pose, had some years past given me over for dead. With this 
view I took shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived in April follow- 
ing ; my man Friday accompanying me very honestly in all these 
ramblings, and proving a most faithful servant upon all occasions. 
When I came to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry, and to my par- 
ticular satisfaction, my old friend the captain of the ship who first 
took me up at sea off the shore of Africa. He was now grown 
old, and had left off going to sea, having put his son, who was 
far from a young man, into his ship, and who still used the Brazil 
trade. The old man did not know me ; and, indeed, I hardly 
knew him : but I soon brought him to my remembrance, and as 
soon brought myself to his remembrance, when I told him who 
I was. 

After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance be- 
tween us, I inquired, you may be sure, after my plantation and 
my partner. The old man told me he had not been in the Brazils 
for about nine years ; but that he could assure me, that when he 
came away my partner was living ; but the trustees, whom I had 
joined with him to take cognizance of my part, were both dead : 
that, however, he believed I would have a very good account of 
the improvement of the plantation ; for that upon the general be- 
lief of my being cast away and drowned, my trustees had given 
in the account of the produce of my part of the plantation to the 
procurator-fiscal, who had appropriated it, in case I never came 
to claim it, one-third to the king, and two-thirds to the monastery 
of St. Augustine, to be expended for the benefit of the poor, and 
for the conversion of the Indians to the Catholic faith ; but that 
if I appeared, or any one for me, to claim the inheritance, it 
would be restored; only that the improvement, or annual pro- 
duction, being distributed to charitable uses, could not be restored : 
but he assured me that the steward of the king^s revenue from 
lands, and the proviedore, or steward of the monastery, had taken 
great care all aJong that the incumbent, that is to say, my part- 
ner, gave every year a faithful account of the produce, of which 
they had duly received my moiety. I asked him if he knew to 
what height of improvement he had brought the plantation, and 
whether he thought it might be worth looking after ; or whether, 
on my going thither, I should meet with any obstruction to my 
possessing my just right in the moiety. He told me he could not 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



228 ADVENTURES OF 

tell exactly to what degree the plantatioii was improved, but thk 
he knew, that my partner was grown exceeding rich upon the 
enjoying bis part of it ; and that, to the best of his remembrance, 
he had heard that the king's third of my part, which was, it 
seems, granted away to some other monastery or religious house, 
amounted to above two hundred moidores a year : that aa to my 
being restored to a quiet possession of it, there was no question 
to be made of that, my partner being alive to witness my title, 
and my name being also enrolled in the register of the country : 
also he told me, that the survivors of my two trustees were very 
fair honest people, and very wealthy ; ,and he believed I would 
not only have their assistance for putting me in possession, but 
would find a very considerable sum of money in their hands for 
my account, being the produce of the farm while their fathers 
held the trust, and before it was given up, as above ; which, as 
he remembered, was for about twelve years. 
• I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this account, 
and inquired of the old captain how it came to pass that the trus- 
tees should thus dispose of my effects, when he knew that I had 
made my will, and had made him, the Portuguese captain, my 
universal heir, &lc. 

He told me that was true ; but that as there was no proof of 
my being dead, he could not act as executor, until some certain 
account should come of my death; and, besides, he was not 
willing to intermeddle with a thing so remote : that it was true 
he had regbtered my will, and put in his claim ; and could he 
have given any account of my being dead or alive, he would 
have acted by procuration, and taken possession of the ingenio 
(so they called the sugar-house), and have given his son, who 
was now at the Brazils, orders to do it. But, says the old man, I 
have one piece of news to tell you, which perhaps may not be so 
acceptable to you as the rest ; and that is, believing you were 
lost, and all the worid believing so also, your partner and trus- 
tees did ofifer to account with me, in your name, for six or eight 
of the first years' profits, which I received. There being at that 
time great disbursements for increasing the works, building an 
ingenio, and buying slaves, it did not amount to near so much as 
afterwards it produced : however, says the old man, I shall give 
you a true account of what I have received in all, and how I hav« 
disposed of it. 

After a few days farther conference with this ancient friend, he 
brought me an account of the first six years' income of my plan 
.ation, signed by my partner and the merchant trustees, being 
tlways delivered in goods, viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar i»» 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



aOBUfSON CRU80S. xXkf 

chests* besides rum, molasses, &c., which is the coDseqaence of a 
sugar-work ; and I found, by this account, that every year the 
iacome considerably increased ; but, as above, the disbursements 
bein^ large, the sum at first was small : however, the old man 
Jet me see that he was debtor to me four hundred and seventy 
moidores of gold, bestdee sixty chests of sugar, and fifteen double 
rolb of tobacco, which were lost in his ship ; he having been 
shipwrecked coming home to Lisbon, about eleven years after 
my leaving the place. The good man then began to complain of 
his misfortunes, and how he had been obliged to make use of my 
money to recover his losses, and buy him a share in a new iihip. 
However* my old friend, says he, you shall not want a supply in 
your necessity ; and aa soon as my son returns, you shall be fully 
•atisfied. Upon this, he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me one 
hundred and sixty Portugal moidores in gold; vasd giving the 
writings of his title to the ship, which his son was gone to the 
Brazils in, of which he was a quarter part owner, and his son 
another, he puts them both into my hands, for security of die rest. 

I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness of the 
poor man to be able to bear this ; and remembering what he had 
done for me, how he had taken me up at sea, and how generously 
he had used me on all occasions, and particulariy how sincere a 
friend he was now to me, I could hardly refrain weeping at what 
he had said to me ; therefore I asked him if his circumstances 
admitted him to spare so much money at that time, and if it 
would not straiten him ? He told me he could not say but it 
might straiten him a little ; but, however, it was my money, and 
E might want it more than he. 

Every thing the good man said was full of affection, and ) 
could hardly refrain from tears while be spoke ; in short, I took 
one hundred of the moidores, and called for a pen and ink to give 
him a receipt for them : then I returned him the rest, and told 
him if ever I had possession of the plantation, I would return the 
other to him alsa (as, indeed, I afterwards did) ; and that as to 
the bill of sale of his part in his son*s ship, I would not take it by 
any means; but that if I wanted the money, I found he was honest 
enough to pay me ; and if I did not, but came to receive what 
he gave me reason to expect, I would never have a penny more 
from him. 

When this was past, the old man asked me if he should put me 
into a method to make my claim to my plantation ? I told him 1 
thought to go over to it myself. He said I might do so, if I 
pleased ; but that if I did not, there were ways enough to secure 
ray right, and immediately to appropriate the profits to my use 
20 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



tf9D ADVEifruRcs or 

aad ai there were ihips in the river uf LiriK>n just ready to go 
away to Brazil, he made me enter my name in a public register, 
with his affidavit, affirming upon oath, that I was alive, and that 
I was the same person who took up the land for the planting the 
wokd plantation at first. This being regularly attested by a notary, 
and a procuration affixed, he directed me to send it, with a letter 
of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance at the place ; 
and then proposed my etaying with him till an account came of 
the return. 

Never was any thing more honourable than the proceedings 
upon this procuration ; for in less than seven months I received a 
large packet firom the survivors of my trustees^ the ntierchants, for 
whose account I went to sea, in which were the following parti- 
cular letters and papers enelosed. 

First, There was the account current of the produce of ray 
farm or plantation, from ^e year when their fathers had balanced 
with my old Portugal captain, being for six years ; the balance 
appeared to b^ one thousand one hundred and seventy-four 
moidores in my favour. 

Secondly^ There was the account of four years more, while 
they kept the effects in their hands, before the government claimed 
the adminbtration, as being the effects of a person not to be found, 
which tfa^y called civil death ; and the balance of this, the value 
of the plantation increasing^ amounted to nineteen thousand four 
hundred and forty-six cruftadoes, being about three thousand two 
nundred and forty moidores. 

Thirdly, There was the prior of Angustine^s account, who had 
received the profits for above fourteen years; but not being to 
account for what was disposed of by the hospital, very honestly 
declared he had eight hundred and seventy-two moidores not dis^ 
tributed, which he acknowledged to my account : as to the king's 
part, that refunded nothing. 

There was a letter of my partner's, congratulating me very 
affectionately upon my being alive, giving me an account how the 
«)state was improved, and what it produced a year; with a pai^ 
ticttlar of the number of squares or acres that it contained, how 
planted, how many slaves there were upon it, and making two- 
and-tlventy crosses for blessings, told me he had said so many 
Ave Marias to thank the blessed Virgin that I was alive ; inviting 
me very passionately to come over and take possession of my 
own ; and, in the mean time, to give him orders to whom he 
should deliver my effects, if I did not come myself; concluding 
with a hearty tender of his friendship, and that of his family, 
and sent me, as a present, seven fine leopard's skins, which b« 



•Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBurson cjlusoc. 



2m 



had, it seems, received from Africa, by some other ship that he 
bad seat thither, aad who, it seems, had made a better voyage 
than I. He sent me also five chests ef excelient sweetmeats, and 
a hundred |»eces«f goid uncoined, not quite so large as moidores. 
By the same feet, my two merchant trustees shipped me one 
thousand two hundred chests of sugar, eight hundred rolls of 
tobacco,. ai»] the rest of the whole accoont in gold. 

I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end ef Job was 
better than the beginning. It is impossible to express the flutter- 
ings of my very heart, when I found all my wealth about me ; 
/or as the Brazil ships come sdl in fleets, the same ships which 
brought my letters brought my goods : and the effects were safe 
in the river before the letters came to my hand. In a word, 1 
turned pale, and grew sick ; and had not the old man run uid 
fetched me a cordial, I believe the sudden sttq)rise of joy ifad 
overset nature, and I had died open the spot : nay, after that, I 
contintted very ill, wiA was so some hours, till a physician being 
sent for, and semething of the real cause of my illness being 
known, he ordered me to be let blood ; afiter which I had relief, 
and grew well : but I verily believe, if I had not been eased by a 
vent given in that manner to the spirits, I should have died. 

I was now master, all on a sudden, of about five thousand pounds 
sterling in money, and had an estate, as I might well call it, in 
the Bras&ik, of above a thousand pounds a year, as sure as an es- 
tate of lands in England ; and, in a word, I was in a condition 
which I scarce knew how to understand, or how to compose my- 
self for the enjoyment ef it. The first thing I did was to recom- 
pense my original benefactor, my good old captain, who had been 
first charitable to me in my distress, kind to me in my beginning, 
and honest to me at the end. I showed him all that was sent to 
me ; I told him, that next to the providence of Heaven, which dis- 
posed all things, it wa§ owing to him ; and that it now lay on me 
to reward him, which I would do a hundred-fold : so I first returned 
to him the hundred moidores I had received of him ; then I sent 
for a notary, and caused him to draw up a general release or dis- 
charge from the four hundred and seventy moidores, which he had 
acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest and firmest manner pos- 
sible. After which I caused a procuration to be drawn, empow- 
ering him to be my receiver of the annual profits of my plantation, 
and appointing my partner to account with him, and make the re 
turns by the usual fleets to him in my name ; and a clause in the 
end, being a grant of one hundred moidores a year to him, during 
bis life, out of the effects, and fifty moidores a year to his son afte^ 
him, for his life : and thus I requited my old man. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



^32 ADTENTURKS OF 

I was now to conSKler wbkh way to steer my cdiirse next 
and what to do with the estate that Providence had thus put into 
my hands ; and, indeed, I had more care upon my head now than 
I bad in my silent state of life in the island, where 1 wanted 
nothing but what I had, and had nothing but what I wanted ; 
whereas I had now a great eharge upon me, and my business was 
how to secnre it. I had never a cave now to hide my money in, 
or a place Where it might lie without lock or key, till it grew 
mouldy and tarnished before any body would meddle with it : on 
the contrary^ I knew not where to pot it, or whom to trust with 
it. My old patron, the captain, indeed, was honest, and that was 
the only refuge I had. In the next place, my interest in the Bra- 
zils seemed to summon me thither ; but now I could not tell how 
to think of going thither till I had settled my aflfkirs, and left my 
effects in some safb hands behind me. At first, 1 thought of my 
old friend the widow, who I knew was honest; and would be just 
to me ; but then she was in years, and but poor, and, for aught 1 
knew, might be in debt ; so that, in a word, I had no way but to 
go back to England myself, and take my effects with me. 

It was some months, however, before I resolved upon this ; and 
therefore, as I had rewarded the old captain fully, and to his 
satisfaction, who had been my former benefactor, so I began to 
think of my poor widow, whose husband had been my first bene- 
factor, and she, while it was in her power, my faithful steward and 
instructor. So the first thing I did, I got a merchant in Lisbon to 
write to his correspondent m London, not only to pay a bill, but . 
to go find her out, and carry her in money a hundred pounds from 
me, and to talk with her, and comfort her in her poverty, by tell- 
mg her she should, if I lived, have a further supply : at the same 
time I sent my two sisters in the country a hundred pounds each, 
they being, though not in want, yet not in very good circumstan- 
ces ; one having been married and left a widow ; and the other 
having a hu^and not so kind to her as he should be. But among 
all my relations or acquaintances, I could not yet pitch upon one 
to whom I durst commit the gross of my stock, that I might go 
away to the Brazils, and leave things safe behind me ; and this 
greatly perplexed me. 

I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, and have settled 
myself there ; for I was, as it were, naturalized to the place ; but 
I had some little scruple in my mind about religion, which insen- 
sibly drew me back. However, it was not religion that kept me 
from going there for the present; and as I had made no scruple 
of being openly of the religion of the country all the while I was 
among them, so neitlier did I yet? only that, now and then, hnv- 



Digitized 



by Google 



ROBINSON CRU908. 233 

fttj^ of late thought more of it than formeriy, when I began to thmk 
of living and d3ring among them, I began to regret my having pro* 
fessed myself a papist, and thought it might nut be the best reli- 
gion to die with* 

But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that kept me 
from going to the Brazils, bnt that reaHy I did not know with whom 
to leave my effects behind me ; so I resolved, at last, to go to 
England with it, where, if I arrived, I concluded 1 Effaould make 
some acquaintance, or find some relations that would be faithful 
lo me : and, accordingly, I prepared to go to England with all 
my wealth. 

In order to prepare things for ray going home, I first, the Brazil 
fleet being just going away, resolved to -give answers suitable to 
the just and faithful account of things I had from thence ; and, first, 
to the prior of St. Angustine I wrote a letter full of thanks for 
their just dealings, and the offer of the eight hundred and seventy- 
tM^o moidores which were undisposed of, which I desired might 
be given, five hundred to the monastery, and three hundred and 
seventy-two to the poor, as the prior should direct ; desiring the 
good padre's prayers for me, and the like, I wrote next a letter 
of thanks to my two trustees, with all the acknowledgement that 
so much justice and honesty called lor ; as for sending them any 
present, they were far above having any occasion for it. Lastly, 
I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his industry in the improv- 
ing the pUmtation, and his integrity in increasing the stock of the 
works ; giving him instructions for his future government of my 
part, according to the powers I had left with my old patron, to 
whom I desired him to send whatever became due to me, till he 
should hear from me more particularly ; assuring him that it was 
my intention not only to come to him, but to settle myself there 
for the remainder of my life. To this I added a very handsome 
present of some Italian silks for his wife and two daughters, 
for such the captain's son informed me he had ; with two pieces 
of fine English broad-cloth, the best I could get in Lisbon, 
five pieces of black baize, and some Flanders lace of a good 
value. 

Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and turned all 
my effects into good bills of exchange, my next diflculty was, 
which way to go to England : I had been accustomed enough to 
:he sea, and yet I had a strange aversion to go to England by sea 
at that time ; and though I could give no reason for it, yet the diflS- 
culty increased upon me so much, that though I had once shipped 
my baggage, in order to go, yet I altered my mind, and that not oncc^ 
but two or three times. 

20* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



t|34 ADVEIfTUlLES OY 

ll is true, I bad been very imfortimate by aoa, and this xaigbi 
be some of the reasons ; but let no man sligbt the strong impulses 
of his own thoughts in cases of such moment : two of the ships 
which 1 had smgled out to go in, I mean more particularly singled 
out than any other, having put my things on board one of them, 
and in the other to have agreed with the captain ; I say, two of 
these ships misearriedt viz. one was taken by the Algerines, and 
the other was cast away on the Start, near Torbay, and all the 
people drowned, except three ; so that in either of those vessels 
I had been made mberable. 

Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot, to 
whom I commimicated every things pressed me earnestly not to 
go by sea, but either to go by land to the Groyne (Corunna)^ and 
cross over the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it was but 
an easy and safe journey by land to Paris, and so to Calais and 
Dover ; or to go up to Madridi and so all the way by land through 
France, ki a word, I was so prepossessed against my going by 
sea at alU except from Caiab to Dover, that I resolved to travel 
all the way by land; which, as I was not in ha^te, and did not 
value the charge, was by much the pleasanter way : and to make 
it more so, my old captain brought an English gentleman, the sob 
of a merchant in Lisbon, who was willing to travel with me ; aftei 
which we picked up two more English merchants also, and two 
young Portuguese gentlemen, the last ^oing to Paris only \ so that 
in all there were si.% of u^, and five servants ; the two merchants 
and the two Portuguese contenting themselves with one servant 
between two, to save the charge ; and as for me, I got an English 
sailor to travel with me as a servant, besides my man Friday, who 
was too much a stranger to be capable of supplying the plaoe of a 
servant on the road.. 

In this manner I set put from Lisbon ; and our company being 
/ery well mounted and armed, we made a little troop, wiiereol 
iliey did me the honour to call me capt^n^ as well because I waj 
the oldest man, ^ because I had two servants, and, indeed, was 
the original of the whole journey. 

As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals, so I shall 
trouble you now with none of my land journal ; but some ajveotures 
that happened to us in this tedious -and difficult journey I must not 
omit. 

When we came to Madrid, we being all of us strangers ta Spain, 
were willing to stay some time to see the court of Spain, and to 
see what was worth observing ; but it being the latter part of the 
summer, we hastened away, and set out from Madrid about the 
middle of October ; but when we came to the edge of Navarre, w« 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBIRSOIf CRU^OS* 235 

were alarmed, at several towns on the way, with an account ^at 
so much snow was fahen on the French side of the mountams, that 
several travellers were obliged to come back to Fampeluua, after 
having attempted, at an extreme hazard, to pass on. 

When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so, indeed; and 
to me, that had been always used to a hot climate, and to coun- 
tries where I could scarce hear any clothes on, the cold was in^ 
suferable : nor, indeed, was it more painful than surprising, to 
come but ten days before out of Old Castile, where the weather 
was not only warm, but very hot, and immediately to feel a wind 
from the Pyxen^an mountains so very keen, so severely cold, as to 
be intolerable, and to endanger benumbing and penshing of our 
fingers and toes. 

Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw the mountains 
all covered with snow, and felt cold weather, which he had never 
seen or felt before in bis life. To mend the matter, when we camo 
to Fampeluna* it continued snowing with so much violence, and 
so long, that the people said winter was comehefore its time ; and 
the rodds, which were difficult before, were now quite impassable ; 
for, in a word, the snow lay in some places too thick for us to 
travel, and being not hard frozen, as is the case in the northern 
countries, there was no going without heing in danger of being 
buried alive every step. We stayed no less than twenty days at 
I ampeluna ; when seeing the winter coming on, and no likelihood 
oi its being better, for it was the severest winter all over Europe 
that had been known in the memory of man, I proposed that we 
should all go away to Fontarabia, and there take shipping for 
Bourdeaux, which was a very little voyage. But while 1 was 
considering this, there came in four French gentlemen, who having 
been stopped on the French side of the passes, as we were on the 
Spanish, bad found out a guide, who, traversing the country near 
the head of Languedoc, had brought them over the mountains by 
such ways, that they were not much incommoded with the snow ; 
for where they met with snow in any quantity, they said it was 
frozen hard enough to bear them and their horses. We sent for 
this guide, who told us he would undertake to carry us the same 
way with no hazard from the snow, provided we were armed 
sufRciently to protect ourselves from wild beasts ; for, he said 
upon these great snows it was frequent for some wolves to show 
themselves at the foot of the mountains, being made ravenous for 
want of food, the ground being covered with snow. We told him 
we were well enough prepared for such creatures as they were, if 
he would insure us from a kind of two-legged wolves, which, we 
were told, we were in most danger from, especially on the Frenab 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



^36 ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

side of the mountains. He satisfied us that there was no danger 
of that kind in the way that we were to go : so we readily agreed to 
follow him, as did also twelve other gentlemen, with their servants, 
some French, some Spanish, who, as I said, had attempted to go, 
and were obliged to come back again. 

Accordingly, we set out from Pampeluna, with our guide, on 
the 15th of November ; and, indeed, I was surprised, when, instead 
of going forward, he came directly back with us on the same road 
that we came from Madrid, about twenty miles ; when having 
passed two rivers, and come into the plain country we found our- 
selves in a warm climate again, where the countr} was pleasant, 
and no snow to be seen ; but on a sudden, turning to his left, he 
approached the mountains another way : and though it is true the 
hills and precipices looked dreadful, yet he made so many tours, 
such meanders, and led us by such winding ways, that we insensi- 
bly passed the iieight of the mountains without being much en- 
cumbered with the snow ; and, all on a sudden, he showed us the 
pleasant fruitful provinces of Languedoc and Gascony, all green 
and flourishing, though, indeed, at a great distance, and we had 
some rough way to pass still. 

We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed one 
whole day and a night so fast, that we could not travel ; but he bid 
us be easy ; we should soon be past it all : we found, indeed, that 
we began to descend every day, and to come more north than 
aefore; and so depending upon our guide, we went on. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION XXIX. 

rsiDAT S ENCOUNTER WITH A BEAB.— BOBINSON AND HIS FELLOW TBAVELLE&B 

ATTACKBO BT A FLOCK OF WOLVES.— HIS ABRANGEMBNT OF HIS AFFAIRS, 

AND MARBIAGB AFTEB HIS BJETUBN TO ENGLAND. 

It was about two hours before nigbt, when our guide being 
something before us, and not just in sight, out rushed three mon- 
strous wolves, and after them a bear, out of a hollow way adjoin- 
ing to a thick wood ; two of the wolves made at the guide, and 
had he been far before us, he would have been devoured before 
we could have helped him ; one of them fastened upon his horse, 
and the other attacked the man with that violence, that he had not 
time, or presence of mind enough, to draw his pistol, but hallooed 
and cried out to us most lustily. My man Friday being next me, 
I bade him ride up, and see what was the matter. As soon as 
Friday came in sight of the man, he hallooed out as loud as the 
other, O master ! O master ! but, like a bold fellow, rode directly 
up to the poor man, and with his pistol shot the wolf that attacked 
him, in the head. / 

It was happy for the poor man that it was my man Friday ; for 
he having been used to such creatures in his country, he had no 
fear upon him, but went close up to him and shot him, as above ; 
whereas, any other of us would have fired at a farther distance, 
and have perhaps either missed the wolf, or endangered shooting 
the man. 

But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man than I ; and, 
indeed, it alarmed all our company, when, with the noise of Fri- 
day's pistol, we heard on both sides the most dismal howling of 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



238 ADVEICTURES OP 

wolves ; and the noise, redoubled by the echo of the n|bantain% 
appeared to us as if there had been a prodigious number of them ; 
and perhaps there was not such a few as that we had no cause of 
apprehensions ; however, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other 
that had fastened upon the horse left him immediately, and fled, 
without doing him any damage, having happily fastened upon his 
head, where the bosses of the bridle had stuck in his teeth. But 
the man ^vas most hurt ; for the raging creature had bit him twice, 
once in the arm> and the other tin lee ; and 

though he had made some defence re turab< 

ling down by the disorder of his h le up and 

shot the wolf. 

It is easy to suppose that at the :ol we all 

mended our pace, and rode up as was very 

difficult, would give us leave, to see what was the matter. As 
soon as we came clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we 
saw clearly what had been the case, and how Friday had dis* 
engaged the poor guide, though we did not presently discern what 
kind of creature it was he had killed. 

But never was a light managed so hardily, and in such a sur- 
prising manner, as that which followed, between Friday and the 
bear, which gave us all, though at first we were surprised and 
afraid for him, the greatest diversion imaginable. As the bear is 
a heavy clumsy creature, and does not gallop as the wolf does, 
who' is swift and light, so he has two particular qualities, which 
generally are the rule of his actions: first, as to men, who are not 
his proper prey (he does not usually attempt them, except they 
first attack him, unless he be excessive hungry, which it is pro- 
bable might now be the case, the ground being covered with 
snow), if you do not meddle with him, he will not meddle with 
you ; but then you must take care to be very civil to him, and 
give him the road, for he is a very nice gentleman ; he will not 
go a step out of his way for a prince ; nay, if you are really 
afraid, your best way is to look another way, and keep going on ; 
for sometimes if you stop, and stand still, and look steadfastly at 
him, he takes it for an affront; but if you throw or toss any thing 
at him, and it hits him, though it were but a bit of stick as big as 
your finger, he thinks himself abused, and sets all other business 
aside to pursue his revenge, and will have satisfaction in point of 
honour ; — this is his first quality : the next is, if he be once alTronted, 
he will never leave you, night nor day, till he has his revenge, but 
follows, at a good round rate, till he overtakes you. 

My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we came up 
to him, he was helping him off from his horse, for the man wat 



Digitized 



by Google 



KOBIlfSON CRUSOE. !KS& 

Dotn nar^ajid frightened, when, on a sudden we espied the bear 
eome out of the wood, and a vast monstrous one it was, the 
biggest by far that ever I saw. We were all a little surprisfii) 
when we saw Win ; but when Friday saw him, it was easy to see 
ioy and eourage in the fellow's countenance : O, O, O * says Fri- 
day, three times, pointing to him; O master! you give me te 
leave, me shakee te hand with him ; me makee you good laugh. 

I was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased : You fool, 
says r, he will eat you np.**-Eatee me up ! eatee me up ! says 
Friday, twice over again ; me eatee him up ; me makee you good 
laugh ; you idl stay here, me show you good laugh. So down he 
•its, and gets off his boots in a moment, and puts on a pair of 
pumps {as we caH the flat shoes they wear, and which he had in 
his pocket), gives my other servant his horse, and with his gun 
sway he flew, swift like the wind. 

The bear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle with 
nobody, till Friday coming pretty near, calls to him, as if the 
besur could understand him. Hark ye, hark ye, says Friday, me 
speakee with you. We followed at a distance ; for now being 
come down on the Gascony side of the mountains, we were en- 
tered a vast great forest, where the country was plain and pretty 
Open, though it had many trees in it scattered here and there. 
Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the bear, came up with 
him quickly, and takes up a great stone and throws it at him, 
and hit him just on the head, but did him no more harm than if 
he had thrown it against a wall ; but it answered Friday's end, 
ibr the rogue was so void of fear that he did it purely to make the 
bear follow him, and show us some laugh, as he called it. As 
svon as the bear felt the blow, and saw him, he turns about, and 
comes after him, taking devilish long strides, and shuffling on at 
a strange rate, so as would have put a horse to a middling gal- 
lop ; away runs Friday, and takes hb course as if he run towards 
us for help; so we all resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and' 
deliver my man ; though I was angry at him heartily for bringing 
the bear back upon us, when he was going about his own busi- 
ness another way ; and especially I was angry that he had turned 
the bear upon us, and then run away ; and I called out. You dog, 
is this your making us laugh ? Come away, and take your horse, 
that we may shoot the creature. He heard me, and cried out. 
No shoot, no shoot ; stand still, and you get much laugh ; and 
as the nimble creature ran two feet for the bear's one, he turned 
on a sudden, on one side of us, and seeing a great oak tree fit for 
his puipose, he beckoned to us to follow ; and doubling nis pace, 
ho gets nimbly up the tree, laying his gun down upon the ground 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



240 ADTENTURES OF 

n\ about fire or six yards friNa the bot^m of the tree. • The b*at 
noon came to the tree, and we followed at a distatAce : the first 
thing he did, be stopped at the gun, smelt to it, but let it lie, and 
up he scrambles into the tree, cHmbing like a eaX^ though so 
monstrous heavy. I was amazed at the folly, as I thought it, of 
my man, and could not for my life see any tbiog to laugh at yet, 
tiU seeing the bear get up the tree, we all rode near to him. 

When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out to the 
small end of a large branch, and the bear got about half way to 
him. As soon as the bear got out to that part where the Hmb oi 
the tree was weaker— Ha! says he to us, now you see me 
teachee the bear dance : so he falls a jumping and shaking the 
bough, at which the bear began to totter, but stood still, and 
began to look behind him, to see hew he should get back; then, 
indeed, we did laugh heartily. But Friday had not dotie with 
him by a great deal ; when seeing him stand still, he calb out to 
him again, as if he had supposed the bear could speak f nglidb. 
What, you come no farther? pray you come farther: so he left 
lumping and shaking the tree ; and the bear, just as if he under- 
stood what he said, did come a little farther ; then he fefl a jump- 
bg again, and the bear stopped again. We thoi^^t now was a 
good time to knock him on the head, and called to Friday tv 
stand still, and we would shoot the bear : but he cried out 
earnestly, O pray ! O pray ! no shoot, me shoot by and then ; 
he would have said by and by. However, to shorten the story, 
Friday danced so much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that we 
had laughing enough, but still could not imagine what the fellow 
would do : for first we thought he depended upon shaking the beai 
off; and we found the bear was too cunping for that too ; for he 
would not go out far enough to be thrown down, but clings fast 
with his great broads claws and feet, so that we could not imagine 
what would be the end of it, and what the jest would be at last. 
But Friday put us out of doubt quickly : for seeing the bear cling 
fast to the bough, and that he would not be persuaded to come 
any farther. Well, well, says Friday, you no come faither, me 
go ; you no come to me, me come to you : and upon this, he goes 
out to the smaller end of the bough, where it would bend with his 
weight, and gently lets himself down by it, sliding down the 
bough, till he came near enough to jump down on his feet, and 
away he runs to his gun, takes it up, and stands still. Well, said 
I to him, Friday, what will you do now ? Why don't you shoot 
him ? — No shoot, says Friday, no yet ; me no shoot now, me no 
kill ; me stay, give you one more laugh : and, indeed, so he did, 
as you will see presently ; for when the bear saw his enemy was 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBIN^JN CR-JSOB. 241 

gone, he comes back from the bough wheie he stood, but did it 
mighty cautiously, looking behind him every step, and comini; 
backward till he got into the body of the treo ; then with the 
same hinder^end foremost, he came down the tree, grasping it 
with his claws, and moving one foot at a time, very leisurely. 
At this juncture, and just before he could set his hind-foot on the 
ground, Friday stepped up close to him^ clapped'the muzzle of 
bis piece into his ear, and shot him dead. Then the rogue turned 
about, to see if we did not laugh ; and when he saw we were 
pleased, by our looks, he falls a laughing himself very loud. So 
we kill bear in my country, says Friday. So you kill them ? says 
I : why, you have no guns.^-No, says he, no gun, but shoot great 
much long arrow. This wa^ a good diversion to us ; but we 
were still in a wild place, and our guide very much hurt, and 
what to do we hardly knew : the howhng of wolves run much 
in my head ; and, indeed, except the noise I once heard on the 
shore of Africa, of which I have sai4 something already, I neve 
heard any thing that filled me with so much horror. 

These things, and the approach of night, called us oflT, or else, 
as Friday would have had us, we should certainly have taken the 
skin of this monstrous creature off, which was worth saving ; but 
we had near three leagues to go, and our guide hastened us ; so 
we left him, and went forward on our journey. 

The ground was still covered with snow, though not so deep 
and dangerous as on the mountains ; and the ravenous creatures, 
a^-we heard afterwards, were come down into the forest and 
plain country, pressed by hunger, to seek for food, and had done 
a great deal of mischief in the villages, where they surprised the 
country people, killed a great many of their sheep and horses, and 
some people too. We had one dangerous place to pass, of which 
our guide told us, if there were more wolves in the country we 
should find them there ; and this was a small plain, surrounded 
with woods on every side, and a long narrow defile, or lane, 
which we were to pass to get through the wood, and then we 
should come to the village where we were to lodge. It was 
within half an hour of sunset when we entered the first wood, and 
a little after sunset when we came into the plain : we met with 
nothing in the first wood, except that, in a little plain within the 
wood, which was not above two furlongs over, we saw five great 
wolves cross the road, full speed, one after another, as if they 
had been in chase of some prey, and had it in view ; they took 
no notice of us, and were gone out of sight in a few moments. 
Upon this/Our guide, who, by the way, was but a faint-hearted 
fellow, bid us keep in a ready posture, for he believed there were 

21 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



242 ADVENTURES OF 

more wolves a coming. We kept our arms ready, and our eym 
about us ; but we saw no more wolves till we came through that 
wood, which was near half a league, and entered the plain. As 
soon as we came into the plain, we had occasion enough to look 
about us : the first object we met with was a dead horse, that b 
to say, a poor horse which the wolves had killed, and ^t least a 
do7*en of them at work, we could not say eating of him, but pick- 
ing of his bones rather : for they had eaten up all the flesh before. 
We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast ; neither did 
they take much notice of us. Friday would have let fly at them, 
but I would not sufier him by any means ; for I found we were 
like to have more business upon our hands than we were aware 
of* We were not gone half over the plain, when we began to 
hear the wolves howl in the wood on our left in a frightful man- 
ner, and presently after we saw about a hundred coming on 
directly towards us, all in a body, and most of them in a line, as 
regularly as an army drawn up by experienced officers. I scarce 
knew in what manner to receive them, but found, to draw our- 
selves in a close line was the only way : so we formed in a mo- 
nent : but that we might not have too much interval, I ordered 
hat only every other man should fire, and that the others who had 
lot fired should stand ready to give them a second volley immedi- 
uely, if they continued to advance upon us ; and then that those 
who had fired at first should not pretend to load their fusees 
again, but stand ready every one with a pistol, for we were all 
armed with a fusee and a pair of pistols each man ; so we were, 
by this method, able to fire six volleys, half of us at a time : how- 
ever, at present we had no necessity ; for upon firing the first 
volley, the enemy made a full stop, being terrified as weU with 
the noise as with the fire ; four of them, being shot in the head, 
dropped ; several others were wounded, and went bleeding ofif, 
as we could see by the snow. I found they stopped, but did not 
Immediately retreat ; whereupon, remembering that I had been 
told that the fiercest creatures were terrified at the voice of a 
man, I caused all the company to halloo as loud as we could ; 
and I found the notion not altogether mistaken ; for upon our 
shout, they began to retire, and turn about. I then ordered a 
second voUey to be fired in their rear, which put them to the gal- 
lop, and away they went to the woods. This gave us leisure to 
charge our pieces again; and that we might lose no time, we 
kept going : but we had but little more than loaded our fusees, 
and put ourselves in readiness, when we heard a terrible noise in 
the same wood, on our left, only that it was farther onward, the 
same way we were to go. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOB. C43 

The night was eommg od, and the light began to be dusky, 
whieh made it worse on our side ; but the noise increasing, we 
eoald easily perceive that it was the howling and yelling of those 
hellish creatures ; and on a sudden, we perceived two or three 
troops of wolves, one on our left, one behind us, and one in our 
front, so ^at we seemed to be surrounded with them : however, as 
^ey did not fall upon us, we kept our way forward, as fast as we 
eould make our horses go, which, the way being very rough, 
was only a good hard trot. In this manner we came in view of 
the entnmce of a wood, through which we were to pass, at the 
fardier side of the plain ; but we were greatly surprised, when 
eowam^ nearer the lane or pass, we saw a confused number of 
wolves standing just at the entrance. On a sudden, at another 
opesiog of the wood, we heard the noise of a gun, and looking 
4iiat way, ouj: rushed a horse, with a saddle and a bridle on him, 
flying like the wind, and sixteen or seyenteen wolves after him, 
full speed ; indeed, the horse had the heels of them, but as we 
supposed ^at he could not hold it at that rate, we doubted not but 
they would get up with him at last ; no question but they did. 

But here we had a most horrible sight ; for riding up to the 
entrance where the horse came out, we found the carcasses o( 
another horse and of two men, devoured by the ravenous crea- 
tures ; and one of the men was no doubt the same whom we 
heard fire the gun, for there lay a gun just by him fired off; but 
as to the man, his head and the upper part of his body were eaten 
up. This filled us with horror, and we knew not what course to 
take ; but the creatures resolved us soon, for they gathered about 
us presently, in h<fpes of prey ; and I verily believe there were 
three hundred of them. It happened very much to our advantage, 
diat at the entrance into the woodf but a little way from it, there 
lay some large timber trees, which had been cut down the sum- 
mer before, and I suppose lay there for carriage. I drew my 
little troop in among those trees, and placing ourselves in a line 
behind' one long tree, I advised tfa^m all to alight, and keeping 
that tree beiore us for a breastwoiic, to stand in a triangle or three 
fronts, enclosing our horses in the centre. We did so, and it was 
well we did ; for never was a naore furious charge than the crea- 
tures made upon us in this place. They came on with a growl- 
ing kind of noise, and mounted the piece of timber, which, as I 
said, was our breastwork, as if they were onfy rushing upon their 
prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems, was principally occasioned 
by their seeing our horses behind us. I ordered our men to fire as 
before, every other man ; and they took their aim so sure, that 
they killed several of the wolves at the first volley; but there was 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



244 ADVENTURES Of 

a necessity to keep a continual firing, for they came on like devils, 
those behind pushing on those before. 

When we had fired a second volley of our fuseesv we thought 
they stopped a little, and I hoped they would have gone off; but 
it was but a moment, for others came forward again j so we fired 
two volleys of our pistols ; and I believe in these four firings we 
had killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed twice aa 
many, yet they came on again. I was loath to spend our shot 
too hastily ; so I called my servant, not my man Friday, for be 
was better employed, for, with the greatest dexterity imagiuahle, 
he had charged my fusee and his own while we were engaged ; 
but, as I said, I called my other man, and giving him a horn of 
powder, I bade him lay a train all along the piece of timber, and 
let it be a large train. He did so ; and had but just time to get 
away, when the wolves came up to it, and some got upon it, 
when I, snapping aa uncharged pistol close to the powder, set it 
on fire : those that were upon the timber were scorched with it; 
and six or seven of them fell, or rather jumped in among us, with 
the force and fright of the fire ; we despatched these in an instant, 
and the rest were so frightened with the light, which the night, 
for it was now very near dark, made more terrible, that they drew 
back a little ; upon which I ordered our last pbtols to be &^d off 
in one volley, and after that we gave a s^out : upon this the 
wolves turned tail, and we sallied immediately upon near twenty 
lamo ones, that we found struggling on the ground, and fell a cut- 
ting them with our swords, which answered our expectation ; for 
the crying and howling they made was better understood by their 
fellows ; so that they all fied and left us. 

We had, first and last, killed about threescore of them ; and had 
it been daylight, we had killed many more. The field of battle 
being thus cleared, we made forward again, for wo had still near 
a league to go. We heard the ravenous creatures howl and yell 
in the woods as we went, several times, and sometimes we fancied 
we saw some of them, but the snow dazzling our eyes, we were 
not certain : in about an hour more we came to the town where 
we were to lodge, which we found in a terrible fright, and sdl in 
arras : for, it seems, the night before, the wolves and some bears 
had broke into the village, and put them in such terror, that tiiey 
were obliged to keep guard night and day, but especially in the 
n ght, to preserve tbtir cattle, and, indeed, their people. 

The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs swelled 
so much with the rankling of bis two wo'inds, that he could go no 
farther; so we were obliged to take a new guide here, and go to 
Thoulouse. where we found a warm climate a fruitful pleasant 



Digitized 



by Google 



BOBIirSON CRUSOE. 245 

eeuMtry, and no snow, |io wolves, nor any thing like them : but 
when we told oar story at Thoulouse, they told us it was nothing 
but what was ordinary in the great forest at the foot of the moun- 
tains, especially when the snow lay on the ground ; but they in- 
quired much what kind of a guide we had got, who would venture 
to bring us that way in such a severe season ; and told us it was 
surprising we were not all devoured. When we told them how 
wo placed ourselves, and the horses in the middle, they blamed us 
exceedingly, and told us it was fifty to one but we had been all 
destroyed; for it was the sight of the horses which made the 
wolves so furious, seeing their prey ; and that, at other times, they 
are really afraid of a gun ; but being excesMve hungry, and raging 
on that aecountf^the eagerness to come at the horses had made 
them senseless of danger ; and that if we had not, by the contin 
ued fire, and at last by the stratagem of the train of powder, mas- 
tered them, it had been great odds but that we had been torn to 
pieces : whereas, had we been content to have sat still on horse- 
back, and fired as horsemen, they would not have taken the hor- 
ses «o much for their own, when men were on their backs, as 
otherwise ; and withal they told us, that at last, if we had stood 
all together, and left our horses, they would have been so eager to 
have devoured them, that we might have come off safe, especially 
having our fire-arms in our hands, and being so many in number. 
For my part, I was never so sensible of danger in my life ; for 
seeing above three hundred devils come roaring and open-mouth- 
ed to devour us, and having nothing to shelter us, or retreat to, I 
gave myself over for lost ; and, as it was, I believe I shall never 
care to cross those mountains again ; I think I would much rather 
go a thousand leagues by sea, though I was sure to meet with a 
storm once a week. 

I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my passage through 
France, nothing Jbut what other travellers have given an account 
of, with much more advantage than I can* I trarelied from Thou- 
louse to Paris, aud without any considerable stay came to Calais, 
and landed safe at Dover, the 14th of January, after having a severe 
cold season to travel in. 

I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had in a little 
time ail my new discovered estate safe about me ; the bills of ex- 
change which 1 broug^ with mo having been very currently 
paid. - 

My principal guide and privy counselloi was my good ancient 
widow ; who, in gratitude for the money I had sent her, thought 
no pains too much, nor care too great, to employ for me ; and J 
trusted her so entirely with every thing, that I was perfectly easy 

21» 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



. 245 ADTENTURKS QV 

as to th« security of my effects : aod, indeed, I was rery haftfi^ 
from the begimiing, and bow to the end, in the unspotted iiHe|prtty 
of this good gentlewoman. 

I now resolved to dispose of my plantation in the Bcasils, If ] 
could find means. For thk purpose, I wrote to my old kieod at 
Lisbon ; who haidng offered it to the two merchants, thesunrironi 
of my trustees, who Hved in the Brasils, they accepted the offbi;, 
and remitted thirty-three thousand pieees of eight to a cenrespMi* 
dent of theirs at Lisbon, to pay for it* Having signed the instm^ 
ment of sale, and sent it to my old friend, he remitted me biUsh of 
exchange for thirty- two thousand eight hundred pieees of e%htibr 
the estate, reserving the payment of a hundred moidorea a year 
to himself, dnrii^ his life, and fifty meidiNres afterwards to hb son 
for life, which I had premised them. 

Though 1 had sold my estate in the Brazils, yet 1 could not 
keep the country eirt of my head ; ner ocmld I resist ^e strong in* 
clination I had te see my iriand. My true friendv the widow> 
earnestly dissuaded me from it, ami sofarprevaitodwith me,diat, 
for almost seven years, she prevented rayruuning inroad ; dmring 
which time I took my two nephews, the ohHdren of one of my 
brothers, into my care: the eldest lurving somethu^ of Im ovm, 
I bred up as a gentloBan, and gave him a settlement of aeme ad* 
dition to his estate, after my decease. The otfemr I put out to a 
captain of a ship : and after fiveyears, finding him a sensible, bold, 
enterprising young fellow, I put him into a good ship,, and sent 
him to sea : and this young fellow afterwards drew me iut as old 
as I was, to farther adventures myself. 

In the mean time, I in part settled myself here ; for, firet of all, 
I married, and that not either to my disadvantage or diseatialactiQB, 
and had three children, two sons and one daughter; but my wife 
dying, and my nephew coming home with good success from a 
voyage to Spain, my inclination to go abroad, and his importunity 
prevailed, and engaged me to go in his ship as a private trader to 
the East Indies : this was in the year 16^. 

But tliese t^ngs, with some very surpri^g incidente in some 
new adventures of my own, for ten years more, I shall give alhr- 
ther account of. 

That homely proverb used on so many occasions in England, viz. . 
** That what is bred in the bone, will not go out of the flesh,*' was 
never more verified than in the story of my life. Any one would 
think, that after thirty-five years affliction, and a variety of un- 
happy circumstances, which few men, if any, ever went through 
before, and after near seven years of peace and ei^oyment in the 
fulness of all things, grown old, and when, if ever, it might be al; 



Digitized 



by Google 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. d47 

lowed mo to have had experience of every state of middle life, and 
to know which was most adapted to make a man completely 
happy ; I say, after all this, any one would have thought that the 
native propensity to rambling, xwhich I gave an account of in my 
first setting out in the world to have been so predominant in my 
thoughts, should be worn out, the volatile part be fully evacuated, 
or at least condensed, and I might, at sixty-one years of age, have 
been a little inclined to stay at home, and have done venturing life 
and fortune any more. 

Way, farther, the common motive of foreign adventures was ta- 
ken away in me ; for 1 had no fortune to make t I had nothing to 
seek : if I had gained ten thousand pounds, 1 had been no richer ; 
for* I had already sufficient for me, and for those I had to leave it 
to ; and that I had was visibly increasing ; for having no great family, 
I could not spend the income of what I had, unless I would set up 
for an expensive way of living, such as a great family, servants, 
equipage, gayety, and the like, which were things I had no notion 
of, or inclination to ; so that I had nothing indeed to do but to sit 
still, and fully enjoy what I had got, and see it increase daily upon 
my hands. Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or at least 
not enough to resist the strong ineUntttioa I had to go abroad again, 
which hung about me like a chronical distemper. In particular, 
the desire of seeing my new plantation in the island, and the col- 
ony I left there, ran in my head continually. 1 dreamed of it all 
night, and my imagination ran upon it all day : it was uppermost 
in all my thoughts ; and my fancy worked so steadily and strongly 
upon it, that I talked of it in my sleep ; in short, nothing could re- 
move it out of my mind : it even broke so violently into aU my dis-. 
courses, that it made my conversation tiresome, for I could talk of 
nothing else ; all my discourses ran into it, even to impertinence 
aud I saw it in myself. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECHON XXX. 

HE IS SEIZED WITH A DESIBE TO REVISIT HIS ISLAND — LOSES BIS 1A1FE — 18 
TEMPTED TO GO TO SEA AGAIN.— TAKES OUT A CARGO FOB HIS COLONY. 

I HAVE often heard persons of good judgment say, that all the 
stir people make in the world ahout ghosts and apparitions, is 
owing to the strength of imagination, and the powerful operation 
of fancy in their minds ; that there is no such thing as a spirit 
appearing, or a ghost walking, and the like : that people's poring 
afiectionateiy upon the past conversation of their deceased friends, 
so realizes it to them, that they are capable of fancying, upon some 
extraordinary circumstances, that they see them, talk to them^ 
and are answered by them, when, in truth, there is nothing but 
shadow and vapour in the thing, and they really know nothing oi 
the matter. 

For my part, I know not to this hour whether there are any sucii 
things as real apparitions, spectres, or walking of people after they 
are dead ; or whether there is any thing in the stories they tell us 
of that kind, more than the product of vapours, sick minds, and 
wandering fancies : but this I know, that my imagination worked 
up to such a height, and brought me into such excess of vapours, 
or what else I may call it, that I actually supposed myself often 
upon the spot, at my old castle, behind the trees ; saw my old 
Spaniard, Friday's father, and the reprobate sailors I left upon the 
island ; nay, I fancied I talked with them, and looked at them 
steadily, though I was broad awake, as at persons just be- 
fore me ; and this I did till I often frightened myself with the 
images my fancy represented to me. One time, in my sleep. I hatl 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



BOBINSOK CRUSOE. 249 

che TiHany of the three pirate sailors so lively related to me by the 
first Spaniard and Friday's father, that it was surprising ; they told 
me hoi^ they barbaroasly attempted to murder all the Spauiards, 
aod that they set fire to the proyisions they had laid up, on pur- 
pose to distress and stanre them ; things that I had never heard 
of^ and that indeed were nevor all of them true in fact ; but it was 
M> warm in my imagination, and so realized to me, that, to the 
hour I saw them, I could not be persuaded but that it was, or 
would be true ; also how 1 resented it, when the Spaniard com- 
plained to me ; and how I brought them to justice, tried them be- 
fore me, and ordered them all three to be hanged. What there 
was really in this, shall be seen in its place : for however I came 
to form such things in my dream, and what secret converse of 
spirits injected it, yet there was, I say, much of it true. I own, 
that this dream had nothing in it literally and specifically true ; 
but the general part was so true, the base viUanons behaviour of 
tiiese three hardened rogues was such, and had been so much worse 
than all I can describe, that the dream had too much similitude of 
the fact ; and as I would afterwards have punished them severely, 
so, if I bad hanged them all, I had been much in the right, and 
even should have been justified both by the laws of God and man. 
But to return to ray story : In this kmd of temper I lived some 
years; I had no enjoyment of my life, no pleasant hours, no 
agreeable diversions, but what had something or other of this iu 
it ; so that my wife, who saw my mind wholly bent upon it, told 
me very seriously one night, that she believed there was some se- 
cret powerful impulse of Providence upon me, which had deter- 
mined me to go thither again ; and that she found nothing hindered 
my going, but fay being engaged to a wife and children. She told 
me, that it was true she could not think of parting with me ; but 
as she was assured, that if she was dead it would be the first thing 
I would do ; so, as it seemed to her that the thing was determined 
libove, she would not be the only obstruction ; for, if I thought fit, 
and resolved to go Here she •found me very intent upon her 
words, and .that I looked very earnestly at her, so that it a little 
disordered her, and she stopped. I asked her why she did not go 
on, and say out what she was going to say ? But I perceived that 
her heart was too full, and some tears stood in her eyes. Speak 
out, my dear, said I ; are you willing I should go ? No, says she, 
very affectionately, I am far from willing ; but if you are resolved 
to go, says she, and rather than I would be the only Mnderance, I 
will go with you : for though I think it a most preposterous thing 
for one of your years, and in your condition, yet, if it must be, said 
she, again weeping, I would not leave you ; for, if it be of Heaven* 



^ Digitized by VjOOQLC 



250 ADVEIITURSa OF 

you moat do it ; there b no resisting it : and if Hearen make h 
your duty to go, it will also make it mine to go with you, or other* 
wise dispose of me, that I may not obstruct it. 

This affectionate behaviour of my wife's brought me a little out 
of the vapours, and I began to consider what I was doing ; I cor- 
rected my wandering fancy, and began to argue with myself se- 
dately, what business I had, after threescore years, and after such 
a life of tedious sufferings and disasters, and closed in so happy 
and easy a manner ; I say, what business had I to rush into new 
hazards, and put myself upon adventures fit only for youth and 
poverty to run into ? 

With these thoughts I considered my new engagement ; that 1 
had a wife, one child bom, and my wife then great with child of 
another ; that I had all the world could give me, and had no need 
to seek hazard for gain ; that I was declining in years^ and ought 
to think rather of leaving what I had gained, than of seeking to 
increase it ; that as to what my wife had said of its being an im- 
pulse from Heaven, and that it should be my duty to go, I had no 
notion of that :* so, after many of these cogitations, I struggled 
with the power of my imagination, reasoned myself out of it, as 1 
believe people may always do in like cases if they will : and, in a 
word, I conquered it ; composed myself with such arguments, as 
occurred to my thoughts, and which my present condition furnished 
me plentifully with ; and particularly, as the most effectual method, 
I resolved to divert myself with other things, and to engage in 
some business that might effectually tie me up from any uhmto ex- 
cursions of this kind ; for 1 found that thing return upon me chiefly 
when I was idle, and had nothing to do> nor any thing of moment 
immediately before me. To this purpose I bought a little farmin 
the county of Bedford, onA resolved to remove myself thither. I 
had a little convenient house upon it ; and the land about it, 1 
found, was capable of great improvement ; and it was many ways 
suited to my inclination, which delighted in cultivating, managing, 
plantiug, and improving of land f and particularly, being an inland 
country, I was removed from conversing among sailors, and things 
relating to the remote parts of the world. 

In a word, I went down to my farm, settled my family, bought 
me ploughs, harrows, a cart, 'wagon, horses, cows, and sheep 
and, setting seriously to work, became, in one halfryear, a mere 
country-gentleman : my thoughts were entirely taken up in mem- 
aging my servants, cultivating the ground, enclosing, planting, 
&c. ; and I lived, as I thought, the most agreeable life that nature 
was capable of directing, or that a man always bred to misfortunes 
'Mrag capable of retreating to. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSOZf CRUSOE. 25J 

I farmed upon my own land ; I had no rent to pay, was limited 
by no articles ; I could pull up or cut down as I pleased : what I 
planted was for myself, and what I improved was for my family ; 
and having thus left off the thoughts of wandering, I had not the 
least discomfort in any part of life as to this world. Now 1 thought 
indeed that I enjoyed the middle state of life which my father so 
earnestly recommended to me, and lived a kind of heavenly life, 
something like what b deseribed by the poet, upon the subject of 
a country life — 



" Eree from vices, free from care. 

Age has no pain, and youth no snare." 

But, in the middle of all this felicity, one blow from unseen 
Providence unhinged me at once ; and not only made a breach 
upon me inevitable and incurable, but drove me, by its conse- 
quences, into a deep relapse of the wandering disposition, which, 
as I may say, being bom in my very blood, soon recovered its 
hold of me, and, like the returns of a violent distemper, came on 
with an irresistible force upon me, so that nothing could make 
any more impression upon me. This blow was the loss of my 
wife. It is not my business here to write an elegy upon my wife, 
give a character of her particular virtues, and make my court to 
^e sex by the flattery of a funeral sermon. She was, in a few 
words, the stay of all my affairs, the centre of all my enterprises, 
the engine that, by her prudence, reduced me to that happy com- 
pass I was in, from the most extravagant and ruinous project 
that fluttered in my head, as above, and did more to guide my 
rambling genius than a mother's tears, a father's instructions, a 
friend's counsel, or all my own reasoning powers, could do. 1 
was happy in listening to her entreaties; and in being moved by 
her tears, and to the last degree desolate and dislocated in the 
world by the loss of her. 

When she was gone, the world looked awkwardly round me. 
I was as much a stranger in it, in my thoughts, as I was in the 
Brazils, when I first went on shore there ; and as much alone, 
except as to the assistance of servants, as I was in my island. 1 
knew neither what to think nor what to do. I saw the world 
busy around me; one part labouring for bread, another part 
crquandering in vile excesses or empty pleasures, equally misera- 
ble, because the eiid they proposed still fl^d from them ; for the 
men of pleasure every day surfeited of their vice, and heaped up 
work for sorrow and repentance ; and the men of labour spent 
their strength in daily struggling for bread to maintain the vita^ 
strength they laboured with : so living in a daily circulation of 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



252 ADVENTURES OF 

sorrow, living but to work, and working but to live, as if dail) 
bread were the only end of wearisome life, and a wearisome life 
the only occasion of d«iily bread. 

This put me in mind of the life I lived in my kingdom, the 
island { where I suffered no more corn to grow, because I did not 
want it; and bred no more goats, because I had no more use for 
them ; where the money lay in the drawer till it grew mouldy, 
and had scarce the favour to be looked upon in twenty years* 

All these things, had I improved them as I ought to have done 
and as reason and religion had dictated to me, would have taugh 
me to search farther than human enjoyments for a full felicity : 
and that there was something which certainly was the reason and 
end of life, superior to all these things, and which was either to 
be possessed, or at least hoped for, on this side the grave. 

But my sage counsellor was gone ; I was like a ship without a 
pilot, that could only run afore the wind : my thoughts ran all 
away again into the old affair, my head was quite turned with the 
whimsies of foreign adventures; and all the pleasant, innocent 
amusements of my farm, my garden, my cattle, and my family, 
which before entirely possessed me, were nothing to me, had no 
relish, and were like music to one that has no ear, or food to one 
that has no taste : in a word, 1 resolved to leave off housekeep- 
ing, let my farm, and return to London ; and in a few months 
after, I did so. 

When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as I was before; 
I had no relish for the place, no employment in it, nothing to do 
but to saunter about like an idle person, of whom it may be said 
he is perfectly useless in Grod's creation, and it is not one 
farthing's matter to the rest of his kind whether he be dead or 
alive. This also wsls the thing which, of all the circumstances of 
life, was the most my aversion, who had been all my days used to 
an active life ; and I would often say to myself, A state of idleness 
is the very dregs of life ; and indeed I thought I was much more 
suitably employed when I was twenty-six days making me a deal 
board. 

It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew, 
whom, as I have observed before, I^had brought up to the sea, and 
had made him commander of a ship, was come home from a short 
voyage to Bilboa, being the first he had made. He came to me, 
and told me that some merchants of his acquaintance had been 
proposing to him to go a voyage for them to the East Indies and 
to China, as private traders. — And now, uncle, says he, if you 
will go to sea with me, I will engage to land you upon your old 
habitation in the island ; for we are to touch at the Brazils 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 258 

Nothing can he a greater demonstration of a future state, and oi 
Ihe existence of an invisible world, tlian the concurrence of second 
causes with the ideas of things which we form in our minds, per- 
fectly reserved, and not communicated to any in the world. 

My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper of wandering 
was returned upon me, and I knew nothing of what he had in his 
thought to say, when that very morning, before he came to me, I 
had, in a great deal of confusion of thought, and revolving every 
part of my circumstances in my mind, come to this resolution, 
viz. that 1 would go to Lisbon, and consult with my old sea-cap> - 
tain ; and so, if it was rational and practicable, I would go and 
see the island again, and see what was become of my people 
there. I had pleased myself with the thoughts of peopling the 
place, and carrying inhabitants from hence, getting a patent for 
the possession, and I knew not what ; when, in the middle of all 
this, in comes my nephew, as I have said, wUh his project of 
carrying me thither in his way to the East Indies. 

I paused awhile at his words, and, looking steadily at him. 
What devil, said I, sent you on this unlucky errand ? My nephew 
stared, as if he had been frightened, at first ; but perceiving that I 
was not much displeased with the proposal, he recovered himself. 
I hope It may not be an unlucky proposal, sir, says he ; I dare 
say you would be pleased to see your new colony there, where 
you once reigned with more felicity than most of your brother- 
raonarchs in the world. 

In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my temper, that is to 
say, the prepossession I was under, and of which I have said «o 
much, that I told him, in a few words, if he agreed with the 
merchants I would go with him : but I told him I would not pro- 
mise to go any farther than my own island. Why, sir, says he, 
you don't want to be left there again, I hope ? Why, said I, can 
you not take me up again on your return ? He told me it would 
not be possible to do so ; that the merchants would never allow 
him to come that way with a laden ship of such value, it being a 
monllh's sail out of his way, and might be three or four. Besides, 
su', if I should miscarry, said he, and not return a^all, then you 
would be just reduced to the condition you were in before. 

This was very rational; but we both found out a remedy for 
it ; which was, to carry a framed sloop on board the ship, which 
being taken in pieces, and shipped on board the ship, might, by 
the help of some carpenters, whom we agreed to carry with us. 
be set up again in the island, and finished, fit to go to sea, in a 
few days. 

^ T was not long resolving ; for indeed the importunities of my 

22 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



854 ADVENTURES OT 

nephew joined so effectually with my indinatihn, that nothing 
could oppose me ; on the other hand, my wife being dead, I had 
nobody concerning themselves so much for me as to persuade me 
to one way or Ae other, except my ancient good friend, the 
widow, who earnestly stmggled with me to consider my years, 
my easy circumstances, and the needless hazards of a long 
voyage ; and, above all, my young children. But it was ail to 
no purpose;— I had an irresistible desire to the voyage; and 1 
toM her I thought there was something so uncommon in the im- 
pressions I had upon my mind for ^e voy^e, that it would be a 
kind of resisting Providence if I should attempt to stay at home : 
after which she ceased her expostulations, and joined with me, 
not only in making provision for my voyage, but also in settling 
my family-affairs for my absence, and providing for the education 
of my children. 

lu order to this, I made my will, and settled the estate I had in 
such a manner for my children, and placed it in such hands, that I 
was perfectly easy and satisfied they would have justice done 
them, whatever might beffdl me : and fbr their education, I left 
it wholly to the widow, with a sufficient maintenance to herself 
for her care : all of which she richly deserved, for no mother could 
have taken more care in their education, or understood it better : 
and as she lived till I came home, I also lived to thank her for it. 

My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of January, 
1694-5 ; and I, with my man Friday, went on board in the Downs 
the 8th : having, besicles that sloop which I mentioned above, a 
very considerable cargo of all kinds of necessary things for my 
colony ; which, if I did not find in good condition, I resolved to 
leave so. 

First, I carried with me some servants, whom I purposed to 
place there as inhabitants, or at least to set on work there, upon 
my account, while I staid, and either to leave them there, or carry 
them forward, as they would appear willing; particularly I car- 
ried two carpenters, a smith, and a very handy, ingenious fellow, 
who was a cooper by trade, and was also a general mechanic ; tor 
he was dexterous at making wheels, wnd hand-mills to grind com, 
was a good tanner, and a good pot maker ; he also made any 
^ing that was proper to make of earth, or of wood ; in a word, we 
called him our Jack of all trades. With these I carried a tailor 
who had offered himself to go a passenger to the East Indies with 
my nephew, but afterwards consented to stay on our new plan' 
tation ; and proved a most necessary, handy fellow, as could be 
desired, in many other businesses besides that of his trade : for, as 
' observed formerly, necessity arms us for all employments. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



EOBlirSON CRUSOE. 



255 



My cargo, as near aal can recollect, for I have not kept account 
of the particulars, consisted of a sufficient quantity of linen, and 
some English thin stuffs, for clothing the Spaniards that I expected 
to find there ; and enough of thein« as, by my calculation, might 
comfortably supply them ibr seven years : if I remember right, 
the materials I carried for clothing them, with gloves, hats, shoes, 
stockings, and all such things as they could want for wearing, 
amounted to above two hundred pounds, including some beds, 
bedding, and household stufiT, particularly kitchen utensils, with 
pots, kettles, pewter, brass, &c., and near a hundred ponhds more 
in iron worts, nails, tools of every kind, staples, hooks, hino^es, 
and every necessary thing I could think of. 

I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets, and fusees ; besides 
some pistols, a considerable quantity of shot of all sizes, three or 
four tons of lead, and two pieces of brass cannon ; and because I 
knew not what time and what extremities I was providing for, I 
carried a hundred barrels of powder, besides swords, cutlasses, 
and the iron part of some pikes and halberds : so that, in short, 
we had a large magazine of all sorts of stores : and I made my 
nephew carry two small quarter-deck guns more than he wanted 
for his ship, to leave behind if there was occasion ; that, when we 
came there, we might build a fort, and man it against all sorts o 
enemies : and, indeed, I at first thought there would be need enough 
for all, and much more, if we hoped to maintain our possession oi 
the island ; as shall be seen in the course of that story. 

I had not such bad luck in this voyage as I had been used to 
meet with ; and therefore shall have the less occasion to interrupt 
the reader, who perhaps may be impatient to hear how matters 
wentwith my colony : yet some odd accidents, cross winds, and bad 
weather, happened on this first setting out, which made the voyage 
longer than I expected at first : and I, who had never made but one 
voyage, viz. my first voyage to Guinea, in which I might be said to^ 
come back again as the voyage was at fir^t designed, began to think 
the same ill fate attended me ; and that I was born to be never con- 
tented with being on shore, and yet to be always unfortunate at sea. 

Contrary winds first put us to the northward, and we were 
obliged to put in at Gahvay in Ireland, where we lay wind-bound 
two-and-twenty days ; but we had this satisfaction with the disaster, 
that provisions were here exceeding cheap, and in the utmost plenty ; 
so that while we lay here, we never tou^aed the ship's stores, hut 
rather added to them. Here, abo, I took in several, live hogs, 
and two cows, with their calves ; which I resolved, if I had a good 
passage, to put on shore in my island ; but we found occasion ta 
dispose otherwise of them. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION XXXI. 

kOOINBON's SHIP HEUEVES THE CBEW OF A FBENCH VESSEL THAT HAJD 
CAOGHT FIRE. 

We set ottt on the 5th of February from Ireland, and had a very 
fair gale of wind for some days. As I remember, it might be 
about the 20th of February, in the evening late, when the raate^ 
having the watch, came into the round-house, and told us he saw 
a flash of fire, and heard a gun fired ; and while he was telling us 
of it, a boy came in, and told us the boatswain heard another. 
This made us all run out upon the quarter-deck, where, for a 
while, we heard nothing ; but in a few minutes we saw a very 
great light, and found that there was some very terrible fire at a 
distance: immediately we had recourse to our reckonings, in 
which we all agreed, that there could be no land that way in 
which the fire showed itself, no, uot for &Ye hundred leagues, for 
it appeared at W. N. W. Upon this we concluded it must be some 
ship on fire at sea ; and as, by our hearing the noise of guns just 
before, we concluded that it could uot be far off, we stood directly 
towards it, and were presently satisfied we should discover it, be- 
cause, the farther we sailed, the greater the light appeared; 
though, the weather being hazy, we could not perceive any thing 
but the light for a while. In about half an hour's sailing, the 
wind being fair for us, though uot much of it, and the weather 
clearing up a little, we could plainly discern that it was a grefit 
ship on fire, in the middle of the sea. 

1 was most sensibly touched with t&is disaster, though not at 
all acquainted with the persons engaged in it : I presently recol- 
lected my former circumstances, and in what condition I was in, 
when taken up by the Portuguese captain ; and how much more 
deplorable the circumstances of the poor creatures belonging tn 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



RUBirCSOlf CRUSOE. 257 

that ship mast be, if they had no odier ship in company with them. 
Upon this, I immediately ordered that fiye guns should be fired, 
one soon after another ; that, if possible, we might give notice to ~ 
them that there was help for them at hand, and that they might 
endeayour to save themselves in their boat ; for though we could 
see the flames of the ship, yet they, it being night, could see 
nothing oj us. 

We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the burning ship 
drove, waiting for daylight ; when, on a sudden, to our great ter- 
ror, though we had reason to expect it, the ship blew up in the 
air ; and immediately, that is to say, in a few minutes, all the fire 
was out, that is to say, the rest of the ship sunk. This was a 
terrible and indeed an afflicting sight, for&e sake of the poor men ; 
wlio, I concluded, must be either all destroyed in the ship, or be 
in the utmost distress in ^ir boat, in the middle of the ocean ; 
which, at present, by reason it was dark, I could not see. How- 
ever^ to direct them as well as I could, I caused lights to be hung 
out in all parts of the ship where we could, and which we had 
lanterns for, and kept firing guns all the night long ; letting them 
know, by this, that there was a ship not far off. 

About eight o*clock in tl^ morning, we discovered the ship's 
boats by the help of our perspective glasses ; found there were two 
of them, both thronged with people, and deep in the water. We per- 
ceived they rowed, the wind being against them ; that they saw our 
ship, and did their utmost to make us see them. 

We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know we saw 
them, and hung a waft out, as a signal for th^ to come on board ; 
and then made more saiU standing directly to them. In little more 
than half an hour, we came up with them ; and, in a word, took them 
all in, being no less than sixty-four men, women, and children ; for 
there were a great many passengers. 

Upon the whole, we found it was a French merchant-ship of three 
hundred tons, home-bound from Quebec, in the river of Canada. 
The master gave us a long account of the distress of his ship ; how 
the fire began in the steerage, by the negligence of the steersman ; 
hut on his crying out for help, was, as everybody thought, entirely 
put out ; but they soon found that some sparks of the first fire had 
gotten into some part of the ship so difficult to come at, that they 
could not effectually quench it ; and afterwards getting in between 
the timbers, and within the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into 
the hold, and mastered all the skill and all the application they were 
able to exert. 

They had no more to do then, but to get into their boats, which 
to their great comfort, were pretty large ; being their long boat, 

99* 
• 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



3158 ADVKNTORRS OF 

and a great shallop, besides a small skiff, which was ef bo great 
serrice to them, other than to get some fresh water and provisieiis 
into her, after they had secured their lives from the fire. They 
had, indeed, small hope of their lives by getting into Uieso boats, 
at that distance from any land ; only, as they said well, that they 
were escaped from the fire, and a possibility that some ship might 
happen to be at sea, and might take them in. They had sails, 
uars, and a compass ; and were preparing to make the best of their 
way back to Newfoundland, the wind blowing pretty fair, for it 
blew an easy gale at S. £. by £. They had as much provision 
and water, as, with sparing it so as to be next door to starving, 
might support them about twelve days ; in which, if they had no 
bad weather, and no contiary winds, the captain said he hoped ha 
might get to the Banks of Newfoundland, an^ might perhaps take 
some fieh^ to sustain thraa till they might go on: shore* But there 
were so many chances against them in all these cases, such as 
storms, to overset and founder them ; rains and cold, to benumb 
and perish their limbs ; contrary winds, to keep them out and 
starve them ; that it mvuA have been next to miraculous if tbey had 
escaped. 

In the midst of their constemattott, every one b^ing hopeless and 
ready to despair, the captain, with teara in his eyes, told me they 
were on a sudden mrprised with the joy of hearing a gun fire, and 
after that four more ; these were the &t9 guns which I caused to 
be fired at first seeing the light. This revived their hearts, and 
gave them the notice, which, as above, I desired it should, viz. 
that there wim a sMp at hand for their help» It was upon the 
hearing of these guns, tbat they took down their masts and sails : 
the sound coming from the windward, they resolved to lie by till 
morning. Some time after this, hearing no more guns, they fired 
three muskets, one a considerable while eiter another ; but these, 
the wind being contrary, we never heard. 

Some time after that again, they were still more agreeably sur- 
prised with seeing our lights, and hearing the guns which, as 1 
have said) I caused to be fired all the rest of the night : this set 
them to work with their oars, to keep their boats ahead, at least, 
that we might the sooner come up wi^ them ; and, at last, to their 
inexpressible joy^ they found we saw them. 

It is impossible for me to express the several gestures, the strange 
ecstasies, the variety of postures, which these poor delivered peo» 
pie ran into, to express the joy of their souls at so unexpected a 
deliverance. Grief and fear are easily described; sighs, tears, 
groans, and a very f^w motions of the head and hands, make up 
the sum of its variety ; but an excess of joy, a surprise of joy, hat 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBlffSOS CRUSOE. • 2S9 

a tfaoiouid eztrayagaiiGet in it : diere were seme ia tears ; some 
raging aad tearing tbemselyes, as if tbey had been in the greatest 
agonies of sorrow ; some staric raymg, and downright lunatic ; 
some ran about the ship stamping with their feet, others wringing 
their hands; some were daneing, some singing, some iaaghing, 
more crying; many qoite dumb, not able to spesdc a word; 
othera side and Tomiting ; several swooning, and ready to 
faint; and a few were crossing themselves, and giving Qod 
thsu^;8. 

I would not wrong them neitlwr ; Uiere might be many that were 
thankful afterwards, but the passion was too strong for them at first, 
and they were not able to master it : they were thrown into ecsta- 
sies, and a kindoffrensy ; audit was but a very few that were com- 
posed and serious in their joy. 

Periiaps, ako, the case may have some addition to it from the 
particular circumstance of that nation they belonged to ; I mean 
the French, whose temper is allowed to be more volatile, more 
passionate, and more sprightly, and their spirits more fluid, than 
ia other naticma. I am not philosopher enough to determine the 
cause ; but nothing I had ever seen before came up to it. The 
ecstasies poor Friday, my trusty savage, was in, when he found 
his father in the boat, came the nearest to it ; and the surprise of 
the master and his two companions, whom I delivered from the 
villains that set them on shore in the ii^and, came a little way 
towards it ; but nothing was to compare to this, either that I saw 
in Friday^ or any where else in my Ufs. 

It is further observable, that these extravagances did not show 
themselves, in that d^erent manner I have mentioned, in different 
persons only ; but all the variety would appear, in a short succes- 
non of moments, in one and the 8ame.person. A man that we saw 
this minute dumb, and as it were stupid and confounded, would 
the next minute be dancing and hallooing like an antic ; and the next 
moment be tefuring his hair, or pulling his clothes to pieces, and 
stamping them under his feet, like a madman ; in a few moments 
i^ter that, we would have him all in tears, then sick, swooning, 
and, had not imnoediate help been had, he would in a few mo- 
ments have been dead ; and thus it was, not with one or two, or 
ten or twenty, but with the greatest part of them : and, if I re- 
member right, our surgeon was obliged to let blood of about thirty 
of them. 

There were two priests among them, one an old man, and the 
other a young man ; and that which was strangest was, the oldest 
man was the worst. As soon as he set his foot on board our ship, 
imd saw himself safe, he dropped down stone-dead, to all appear 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



860 ADVKNTDRKS OV 

ance ; not the' least sign of life could be perceired in bim : oar 
surgeon immediately applied proper remedies to reeorer him, and 
was the only man in the ship that believed he wcm not dead. At 
length he opened a vein in his arm, having first chafed and rob- 
bed the part, so as to warm it as much as possible : upon this, the 
blood, which only dropped at first, flowing freely, in three minutes 
after the man opened his eyes; and a quarter of an hoar after that 
he spoke, grew better, and in a little time quite well. After the 
blood was stopped, he walked about; told us he was perfectly 
well ; took a dram of cordial which the surgeon gave him, and 
was what we called come to himself. About a quarter of an hour 
after this, they came running into the cabin to the surgeon, who 
was bleeding a French woman that had fainted, and told him die 
priest was gone stark mad. It seems he had begun to revolve the 
change of his circumstances in his mind, and again this put him 
into an ecstasy of jc y ; his spirits whirled about faster dian the 
vessels could convey them, the blood grew hot and feverish, and the 
man was as fit for Bedlam as any creature that ever was in it : the 
^urgeon would not bleed him again in that condition, but gave 
him something to doze and put him to sleep, which, after some 
time, operated upon him, and he awoke next morning perfectly 
composed and well. 

The younger priest behaved with great command of his passions, 
and was really an example of a serious, well governed mind : at 
his first coming on board the ship, he threw himself flat on his face, 
prostrating himself in thankfulness for his deliverance, in which I 
unhappily and unseasonably disturbed him, really thinking he had 
been in a swoon ; but he spoke calmly, thanked me, told me he 
was giving God thanks for his deliverance; begged me to leave 
him a few moments, and that, next to his Maker, he would give 
me thanks also. 

I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not only left him, 
but kept others from interrupting him also. He continued in that 
posture about three minutes, or little more, after I left him ; Uien 
came to me, as he had said he would, and, with a great deal of 
seriousness and afiection, but with tears in his eyes, thanked me, 
that had, under God, given him, and so many miserable creatures, 
their lives. I told him I had no room to move hun to thank God 
for it, rather than me, for I had seen that he had done that al- 
ready ; but, I added, that it was nothing but what reason and hu- 
manity dictated to all men, and that we had as much reason m 
he to give thanks to God, who had blessed us so far, as to makii 
us the instruments of his mercy to so many of his creatures. 

After this, the young priest applied himself to his country-folks * 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBl!*rSO>' CRtrSOE. 261 

laboured to compose them ; persuaded, entreated, argued, reasoned 
with them, and did his utmost to keep them within the exercise of 
their reason ; and with some he had success, though others were 
for a time out of all government of themselves. 

I cannot help committing this to writing, as perhaps it may be 
useful to those into %vhose hands it may faM, for the guiding them- 
selves in all the extravagances of their passions ; for if an excess 
of joy can carry men out to such a length beyond the reach of 
their reason, what will not the extravagances of anger, rage, and 
a provoked mind, carry us to ? And, indeed, here I saw rea- 
son for keeping an exceeding watch over ou^ passions of every 
kind, as well those of joy and satisfaction, as those of sorrow and 
anger. 

We were something disordered, by these extravagances among 
our new guests, for the first day ; but when they had been retired, 
lodgings provided for them as welt as our ship would allow, and 
they had slept heartily — as most of them did, being fatigued and 
frightened— they were quite another sort of people the next day. 

Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledgments for the kind- 
ness shown them, was wanting ; the French, it is known, are nat- 
urally apt enough to exceed that way. The captain and one of 
the priests came to me the next day, and desired to speak with 
me and my nephew : the commander began to consult with us 
what should be done with them ; ami, first, they told us that we 
had saved their lives, so all they had was little enough for a re- 
turn to us for that kindness received. The captain said they had 
saved some money, and some things of value, in their boats, catched 
hastily out of the flames, and if we would accept it, they were or- 
dered to make an offer of it all to us : they only desired to be set 
on shore somewhere in our way, where, if possible, they might get 
a passage to France. My nephew was for accepting their money 
at first word, and to consider what to do with them afterwards ; 
but I overruled him in that part, for I knew what it was to be set 
on shore in a strange country : and if the Portuguese captain that 
took me up at sea had served me so, and took all I had for 
my deliverance, I must have starved, or have been as much a 
slave at the Brazils as I had been at Barbary, the mere being 
4old to a Mahometan excepted : and perhaps a Portuguese is not 
a much better master than a Turk, if not, in some cases, much 
worse. 

I therefore told the French captain thiat we had taken them up 
in their distress, it was true, but that it was our duty to do so, as 
we were fellow-creatures ; and we would desire to be so delivered* 
if we were in the like or any other extremity; that we had dona 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



262 ROBi^^on cRusoB. 

nothing for them but what we believed they would haye done foi 
us, if we had been in their case, and they in ours ; but that we 
took them up to save them, not to plunder them ; and it would be 
a most barbarous thing to take that little from them which they 
had saved out of the fire, and then set them on. shore and leave 
them ; that this would be first to save them from death, and then 
kill them ourselves ; save them from drowning, and abandon them 
to star^ mg ; and therefore I would not let the least thing be taken 
from them. As to setting them on shore, I told them, indeed, that 
was an exceeding difficulty to us, for that the ship was bound to 
the East Indies ; and though we were driven out of our course to 
the westward a very great way, and perhaps were directed by 
Heaven on purpose for their deliverance, yet it was impossible for 
us wilfully to change our voyage on their particular account ; nor 
could my nephew, the captain, answer it to the freighters, with 
whom he was under charter-party to pursue his voyage by the way 
of Brazil : and all I knew we could do for them, was to put oar- 
selves in the way of meeting with other ships home^vard bound 
from the West Indies, and get them a passage, if possible, to Eng- 
land or France. 

The first part of the proposal was so generous and kind, they 
could not but be very thankful for it ; but they were in a very 
great consternation, especially the passengers, at die notion of being 
carried away to the East Indies : they then entreated me, that 
seeing I was driven so far to the westward before I met with them, 
I would at least k«ep on the same course to the Bimks of Newfound 
land, where it was probable I might meet with some ship or stoop 
that they might hire to carry them back to Canada, from whence 
they came. 

I thought this was but a reasonable request on their part, and 
therefore I inclined to agree to it ; for, indeed, I considered, that 
to carry this whole company to the East Indies, would not only 
be an intolerable severity upon the poor people, but would beruin- 
ing our whole voyage, by devouring all our provisions ; so I thought 
it no breach of charter-party, but what an unforeseen accident 
made absolutely necessary to us, and in which no one could say we 
were to blame ; for the laws of God and nature would have for- 
bid that we should refuse to take up two boats full of people in 
such a distressed condition ; and the nature of the thing, as well 
respecting ourselves as the poor people, obliged us to set them on 
shore somewhere or other for their deliverance : so I consented 
that we would carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather 
would permit ; and if not, that I would carry them to Martiuico 
in the West Indies. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION xxxn. 

■■UXVXS THE CREW OF A BKISTOL SHIP, WttO ABE STARVING.— ABRIYVS AT 
HIS ISLAND. 

The wiod continued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty gooci , 
and as the winds had continued m the points between N. E. and 
S. E. a long time, we missed seyeral opportunities of sending them 
to France ; for we met several ships bound to Europe, whereof 
two were French, from St. Christopher's ; but they had been so 
'ong beating up against the wind, that they durst take in no pas- 
sengers, for fear of wanting provisions for the voyage, as well for 
themselves as for those they should take in ; so we were obliged 
to go on. It was about a week after this that we made the 
Banks of Newfoundland ; where, to shorten my story, we put all 
our French people on board a bark, which they hired at sea there, 
to put them on shore, and afterwards to carry them to France, if 
they could get provisions to victual themselves with. When I say, 
all the French went on shore, I should remember, that the young 
priest I spoke of, hearing we were bound to the East Indies, de- 
sired to go the voyage with us, and to be set on shore on the 
coast of Coromandel ; which I readily agreed to, for I wonder- 
fully liked the man, and had very good reason, as will appear af- 
terwards ; also four of the seamen entered themselves on our ship, 
and proved very useful fellows. 

From hence we directed our course for the West Indies, steering 
away S. and S. by E. for about twenty days together, sometimen 
little or no wind at all ; when we met with another puhject 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



'^4 ADVENTURES OF 

for our humanity to work upon, almost as deplorable as that 
before. 

It was iu the latitude of twenty-seven degrees five minutes north, 
on the 19th day of March, 1694-5, when we espied a sail, our 
course S. E. and by S. : we soon perceived it was a large vessel, 
and that she bore up to us, but could not at first know what to 
make of her, till, after coming a little. nearer, we found she had 
lost her main topmast, foremast, and bowsprit ; and presently 
she fired a gun, as a signal of distress : the weather was prettj 
good, wind at N. N. W. a fresh gale, and we soon came to speak 
with her. 

We found her a ship of Bristol, bound home from Barbadoes, 
but had been blown out of the road at Barbadoes, a few days before 
she was ready to sail, by a terrible hurricane, while the captain 
and chief mate were both gone on shore ; so that, besides the ter- 
ror of the storm, they were in an indifferent case for good artists 
to bring the ship home. They had been already nine weeks at 
sea, and had met with another terrible storm, after the hurricane 
was over, which had blown them quite out of their knowledge to 
the westward, and in which they lost their masts, as above. They 
(old us they expected to have seen the Bahama islands, but were 
then driven away again to the south-east, by a strong gale of wind 
at N. N. W. the same that blew now : and having no sails to work 
the ship with but a main-course, and a kind of square sail upon 
a jury foremast, which they had set up, they could not lie 
near the wind, but were endeavouring to stand away for the 
Canaries. 

But that which was worst of all was, that they were almost 
starved for want of provisions, besides the fatigues they had under- 
gone : their bread and flesh were quite gone ; they had not one 
ounce left in the ship, and had none for eleven days. The only relief 
they had was, their water was not all spent, and they had about half 
a barrel of flour left ; they had sugar enough ; some succades, or 
sweetmeats, they had at first, but they were devoured ; and they 
had seven casks of rum. 

There were a youth and his mother, and a maid-servant, on 
board, who were going passengers, and thinking the ship was 
ready to sail, unhappily came on board the evening before the 
hurricane began ; and having no provisions of their own left, they 
were in a more deplorable condition than the rest : for the seamen, 
being reduced to such an extrcmo necessity themselves, had no 
compassion, we may be sure, for the poor passengers ; and they 
were, indeed, in a condition, that their misery is ^ery haid to 
describe 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 265 

I bad perhaps not known this part, if my curiosity had not led 
me (the weather being fair and the wind abated) to go on board 
the ship. The second mate, who, upon this occasion, commanded 
the ship, had been on board our ship, and he told me, indeed, they 
had three passengers in the great cabin, that were in a deplorable 
condition : Nay, says he, I believe they are dead, for I have heard 
nothing of them for above two days : and I was afraid to inquire 
after them, said he, for I had nothing to relieve them with. 

We immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief we 
could spare ; and, indeed, I had so far overruled things with my 
nephew, that I would have victualled them, though we had gone 
away to Virginia, or any other part of the coast of America, to 
have supplied ourselves ; but there was no necessity for that 

. But now they were in a new danger ; for they were afraid of 
eating too much, even of that little we gave them. The mate or 
commander brought six men with him in his boat ; but these poor 
wretches looked like skeletons, and were so weak, that they could 
hardly sit to their oars. The mate himself was very ill, and 
half-starved; for he declared he had reserved nothing from 
the men, and went share and share alike with them in every bit 
they ate. 

I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat before him im- 
mediately ; and he had not eaten three mouthfuls before he began 
to be sick, and out of order ; so he stopped avirhile, and our sur- 
geon mixed him up something with some broth, which he said 
would be to him both food and physic ; and after he had taken it, 
he grew better. In the mean time, I forgot not the men; I or- 
dered victuals to be given them ; and the poor creatures rather 
devoured than ate it: they were so exceeding hungry, that they 
were in a kind ravenous, and had no connnand of themselves ; 
and two of them ate with so much greediness, that they were in 
danger of their lives the next morning. 

The sight of these people's distress was very moving to me, and 
brought to mind what I had a terrible prospect of at my first* 
coming on shore in my island, where I had never the least mouth- 
ful of food, or any prospect of procuring any ; besides the hourly 
apprehensions I had of being made the food of other creatures. 
But all the while the mate was thus relating to me the miserable 
condition of the ship's company, I could not put out of my thought 
the story he had told me of the three poor creatures in the great 
cabin, viz. the mother, her son, and the maid-servant, whom he 
had heard nothing of for two or three days, and whom, he seemed 
to confess, they had wholly neglected, their own extremities being 
so great : by which I understood, that they had really gbrea them 

83 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



26G ADVENTUREfl OF 

no ibod at all, and that therefore they must be penahed, and be 
all lying dead, perhaps, on the floor or deck of the cabin. 

As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called captain, on 
board with his men, to refresh them, so I also forgot not the 
starving crew that were leit on board j but ordered my own boat 
to go on board the ship, and, with my mate and twelve men, to 
carry them a sack of bread, and four or five pieces of beef to boiL 
Our surgeon charged the men to cause the meat to be boiled while 
tiiey stayed, and to keep guard in the cook-room, to prevent the 
men takkig it to eat raw, or taking it out of the pot before it wa9 
well boiled, and then to give every man but a very little at a time ; 
and by this caution he preserved the men, who would otiierwisQ 
have killed themselves with that very food that was given them 
on purpose to save their lives. 

At the same time, I ordered the mate to go into the great cabin* 
and see what condition the poor passengers were in ; and if they 
were alive, to comfort them, and give them what refreshment was 
proper : and the surgeon gave him a large pitcher, with some of 
the prepared broth which he had given the mate that was on board, 
and which he did not question would restore them gradually. 

I was not satisfied with this ; but, as I said above, having a 
great mind to see the scene of misery which I knew the ship itself 
would present me with, in a more lively manner than I could have 
it by report, I took the captain of the ship, as we now called him, 
with me, and went myself, a little after, in their boat. 

I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult, to get. the 
victuals out of the boiler before it was ready ; but my mate ob- 
served his orders, and kept a good guard at the cook-room door ; 
and the man he placed there, afler using all possible persuasion 
to have patience, kept them off by force: however, he caused 
some biscuit-cakes to be dipped in the pot, and softened with the 
liquor of the meat, which they called brewis, and gave them 
every one some, to stay their stomachs, and told them it was for 
.their own safety that he was obliged to give them but little at a 
time. But it was all in vain ; and had I not come on board, and 
their own commander -and officers with me, and with good words, 
and some threats also of giving them no more, I believe they 
would have broken into the cook-room by force, and torn the 
meat out of the furnace ; for words are indeed of very small force 
to a hungry belly : however, we pacified them, and fed them gra- 
dually and cautiously for the first, and the next time gave them 
more, and at last filled their bellies, and the men did well enough. 

But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of 
another nature, and &r beyond the rest; for as the ship'^ com.. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROftiiMOif cituactf. 2ST 

paayimd m filtlB Ibr tfaeneekest^ it was bat too trae that Aey had 
at first kept thmn yery low, and at last totally seg^ected them ; so 
that for six or seyea iJmyn it might be said they had rea^y no food 
at all, and for seveial days before very litde. The pocu: mother, 
who, as the m^n reported, was a woman of sense and good breed- 
mg, had spared all she could so alE^tionately for her son, thai 
at last i^ie entirely sank -under it ; and when the mate of our ship 
went in, she sat upon the floor or deck, with her back i^ against 
the sides, b^ween two chairs^ which were la^ed fast, and her head 
sank between her ^Kmlders, like a corpse, though not quite dead. 
My mate said all that he could do to reviye and encourage her, 
and with a spoon put some broth into her mouth. She opened her 
lips, and Med up one hand, but could not speak ; yet i^e under- 
stood what he said, and made signs to him, intonating that it was 
too late for her, but pointed to her child, as if she would hav© said 
ih&y should take care of him. However, the mate, who was ex- 
ceedingly moved with the sight, endeavoured to get some broth 
into her mouth, and, as he said, got two or three spoonfuls down ; 
though I ques^n whether he could be sure of it os not : but it was 
too late, and she died the same night. 

The youth, who was preserved at the price of his laost aflfec- 
tkniate mother's life^ was not so far gone ; yet he lay in a cabin 
bed, as oim stretched out, with hardly any life left in him. He 
had a piece of an old glove in his mouth, having eaten up the 
rest of it : however, being young, and having more strength than 
his mother, the mate got something down l»s li^oat, and he began 
sMi^My to revive ; though by giving him, some time after, but two 
or toce spoonfuls extraordinary, he was very sick, and brooght it 
up again. 

But the next care was the poor maid '. she lay aH along upon 
the deck, hard by her mistress, and just like one that had fallen 
down with an ap<q)lexy, and strug^ed for 1^. Her Hrabs were 
ctistorted ; one of her hands was cksped round the frame of a 
chidr, and she griped it so hard, that we could not easily make 
her let go: her o^ter arm lay over her h^id, and her feet lay 
bo^ together, set &6t against the frame of the oalnn table : in 
i^rt, she lay jm^ like one in tiie agonies of death, and. yet she was 
aMvetoo; 

The poor creature was not only starved with hunger, and terrified 
with the thoughts of -death, but as the men told us afterwards, was 
broken-hearted for her mistress, wlrom she saw dying for two or 
three days before, and whom she loved most tenderly. 

We knew not what to do with this poor girl ; for when our sur- 
ge0B, v^'W9B & man of yery gieatksMle^^ and^expeiieBoe, had, 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



268 ADVEKTURES OT 

with great applieatiofi, reooyered her «a to life, he had her i^mhi his 
hands as to her senses ; for she was Httle less than distracted for a 
considerable time after, as shall appear presently. 

Whoever shall read these memoraBdniBs must be desired to con- 
sider, that visits at sea are not like a journey into the country^ where 
sometimes people stay a week or a fortnight at a place : our business 
was, to relieve this distressed ship's crew, but not lie by for them ; 
wid though they were willing to steer the same course with us for 
some days, yet we could carry no sail, to keep pace with a ship that 
had no masts : however, ae their C24>tain begged of us to help him 
to set up a main^opmast, and a kind of a topmast to his jury foie* 
mast, we did, as it were, lie by him f<» three or four days ; and t^ea 
having given him five barrels of beef, a barrel of pork, two hogs- 
heads of biscuit, uid a proportion of peas, fiour, and what other things 
we could spare ; and taking three casks of sugar, some rum, ami 
some pieces of eight from them for eatisfaction, we lefl them ; taking 
on board with us, at their own earnest request, the youth and the 
maid, and all their goods. 

The young lad was about seventeen years of age; a pretty, 
well bred, modest, and sensible youths greasy dej^ted with the 
loss of his mother, and, as it seems, bad lost his ^ther but a few 
months before, at Barbadoes : he begged of the surgeon to speak 
to me to take him out of the ship ; for he said the cruel leUows 
had murdered his mother : and, indeed, so they had, that is to say, 
passively ; for they might have spared a smsdl sustenance to the 
poor helpless widow, that might have preserved her life, though it 
had been but just enough to keep her alive : but hunger knows na 
friend, no relation, no justice, no right ; and therefore is remorseless^ 
and capable of no compassion. 

The surgeon t^ him how far we were going, and that it would 
carry him away from all his firiends, and put him perhaps in as 
bad circumstances almost as those we found him in, that is to 
say, starving m the world. He said it mattered not whither he 
went, if he was but delivered from the terrible crew that he was 
among; that the captain (by which he meant me, (or he could 
know no^ng of my nephew) had saved his life, and he was sare 
would not hurt him; and as £or the maid, he was sure, if she 
came to herself, she would be very thankful for it, let us carry 
them where we would. The surgeon represented the case so 
affectionately to me, that I yielded, and we took them both on 
board, with all t^eir goods, except eleven hogsheads of sugar, 
which could not be removed or come at; and as the youth had a 
bill of lading for them, I made his commander sign a wnting 
oUiging himself to go, as soon aa he came to Bristc^ to one Mr. 



Digitized 



by Google 



ROBINSO?f CRUSOE. 269 

Rogers, a merchant there, to whom the youth said he was related, 
and to deliver a letter which I wrote to him, and all the goods he 
had belonging to the deceased widow; which 1 suppose was not 
done, for I i], but was, 

as is most dition, and 

so far fron i she met 

with ailer^ leaky and 

had damag 

I was m o minutes, 

and had hi rh, at first, 

the winds ] h the littls 

incidents o ir voyage ; 

but, to shorten my story, for the sake of what is to follow, shall ob- 
serve, that I came to my old habitation, the island, on the 10th of 
April, 1695. It was with no small difficulty that I found the place ; 
foT as I came to it, and went from it, before, on the south and east 
side of the island, as coming from the Brazils, so now, coming in be- 
tween the main and Uic island, and having no chart for the coast, 
nor any landmark, I did not know it when I saw it, or know whether 
I saw it or not. 

We beat about a great while, and went on shore on several islands 
in the mouth of the great river Oronoco, but none for my purpose ; 
only this I learned by my coasting the shore, that I was under one 
great mistake before, viz. that the continent which I thought I saw 
from the island I lived in, was reaHy no continent, but a long island, 
or rather a ridge of islands, reaching from one to the other side of 
the extended mouth of that great river ; and that the savages who 
came to my island were not properly ^ose which we call Caribbees, 
but islanders, and olher barbarians of the same kind, who inhabited 
something nearer to our side than the rest. 

In short, I visited several of these islands to no purpose ; some I 
found were inhabited, and some were not : on one of them I found 
B&me Spaniards, and ^thought they had lived there ; but speaking 
with them, found they had a sloop in a small creek hard by, and 
came thither to moke salt and to catch some pearl muscles, if they 
could; but that they belonged to Trinidad, which lay farther north, 
in the latitude of ten and eleven degrees. 

Thus coasting from one island to another, sometimes with the ship^ 
sometimes with the Frenchnaen's shallop, which we had found a con- 
venient boat, and therefore kept her with their very good will, at 
length I came on the south side of my island, and presently knew 
the very countenance of the place : so I brought the ship safe to an 
anchor, broadside with the little creek where my old habitation was. 

33* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION XXXIIL 

SOBXNSON ANO FKIDAT QO ON 8H9BB. — T»K LATTBR M1BT8 'VTlTH KX8 
FATHER. — ACCOUNT OF WHAT PA8SEB ON THE ISLAND AFTKB ROBIN- 
S0N*8 QUITTING IT. 

As soon as I saw the place, I called for Fnday, and asked liim if 
he knew where he was ; he looked ahout a little, and presently da|>- 
ping his hands, cried, O yes, O there, yes, O the^, pointing to our 
old habitation, and fell dancing and capering like a mad fellow ; aad 
I had much ado to keep him from jumping into the sea, to swim 
ashore to tite place. 

Well, Friday, says I, do you think we shall find any body here or 
BO ? and do you thii^ we shall see your Either ? The fellow stood 
mute as a i^ock a good while, but when I named his father, the poor 
affectionate creature looked dejected, and I could see the tears nm 
down his face very plentifully. What is ike matter, Friday ? says 
I ; are you troubled because you Boay see your fath^.? No, no, 
says he, shaking his head, no see him more ;. no, never more see him 
again. Why so, said I, Friday ? how do you know that % O no^ 
no, says Friday; be long ago die, long ago; he much old man. 
Well, well, says I, Friday, you don't know ; but shall we see ^y one 
else then ? The fellow, it seems, had better eyes than 1$ and he 
points to the hill just above my old house ; and though we lay half 
a league off, he cries out, We see, we see, yes, yes, we see much 
man there, and there, and there. I looked, but I saw nobody, no, 
not with a perspective-glass, which was, I suppose, because I oould 
not hit the place; for the fellow was right, as I found upon inc^uiry 
the next day ; and there were five or six men all together, who stood 
to look at the ship, not knowing what to think of us. 

As soon as Friday told me he saw people, I caused the English 
ancient to be spread, and fired three guns, to give them notice we 



Digitized by VjOOQIC . 



ROBINSON CHUSOE. 5J71 

were friends; and in about half a quarter of an hour after, we 
perceived a smoke arise from the side of the creek : so I imme- 
diately ordered the boat out, taking Fridj^y with me ; and hanging 
out a whitQ flag, or a flag of truce, I went directly on shore, taking 
with me the young friar I mentioned, to whom I had told the 
story of my living there, and the manner of it, and every par- 
ticular both of myself and those I left there; and who was, 
on that account, extremely desirous to go with me. We had be- 
sides about sixteen men well armed, if we had found any new 
guests there which we did not know of; but we had no need of 
weapons. 

As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high water, 
we rowed directly into the creek ; and the first man I fixed my 
eye upon was the Spaniard whose life I had saved, and whom I 
knew by his face perfectly well : as to his habit, I shall describe 
it afterwards. I ordered nobody to go on shore at first but my- 
self; but there was no keeping Friday in the boat, for the affec- 
tionate creature had spied his father at a distance, a good way off 
the Spaniards, where indeed I saw nothing of him ; and if they 
had not let him go ashore, he would have jumped into the sea. 
He was no sooner on shore, but he flew away to his father, like 
£ui arrow out of a bow. It would have made any man shed tears, 
in spite of the firmest resolution, to fcave seen the first transports 
of this poor fellow's joy when he came to his father : how he 
embraced him, kissed him, stroked his face, took him up in his 
arms, set him down upon a tree, and lay down by him; then 
stood and looked at him, as any one would looklit a strange pic- 
ture, for a quarter of an hour together; then lay down on the 
ground, and stroked his legs, and kissed them, and then got up 
again, and stared at him ; one would have thought the fellow be- 
witched. But it would have made a dog laugh the next day to 
see how his passion ran out another way; in the morning he 
walked along the shore to and again, with his father, several 
hours, always leading him by the hand, as if he had been a lady ; 
and every now and then he would eome to the boat to fetch some- 
thing or other for him, either a lump of sugar, a dram, a biscuit- 
cake, or something or other that was good. In the afternoon his 
frohcs ran another way ; for then he would set the old man down 
upon l^e ground and dance about him, and make a thousand 
antic postures and gestures ; and all the while he did this, he ' 
would be talking, to him, and telling him one story or other of his 
travels, and of what had happened to him abroad, to divert him. In 
short, if the same fiUal affection was to be found in Christians, to 
their parents in our part of the world, one would be tempted to 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



272 ADVENTURES OF 

say, theie would hardly have been any need of the fifth commands 
ment. 

But this is a digression : I return to my landing. It would be 
needless to take notice of all the ceremonies and civilities that the 
Spaniards received me with. The first Spaniard, who, as I 
said, I knew very well, was he whose life I had saved ; he came 
towards the boat, attended by one more, carrying a fiag of 
truce also ; and he not only did not know me at first, but he had 
no thoughts, no notion of its being me that was come, till I spoke 
to him. Senhor, said I, in Portuguese, do you not know me? 
At which he ^>oke not a word, but giving his musket to the man 
that was with him, threw his arms abroad, saying something in 
Spanish that I did not perfectly hear, came forward and embraced 
me ; telling me he was inexcusable in not knowing that face again, 
that he had once seen as if an angel from. heaven sent to save his 
life : he said abundance of very handsome things, as a well-bred 
Spaniard always knows how ; and then beckoning to the person that 
attended him, bade him go and call his comrades. He then asked 
me if I would walk to my old habitation, where he would give me 
possession of my own house again, and where I should see they had 
made but mean improvements : so I walked along with him ; but, 
alas ! I could no more find the ^^ce again than if I had never been 
there ; for they had planted so many trees, and placed them in sueh 
a posture, so thick and close to one another, and in about ten years' 
time they were grown so big, that, in short, the place was inaccessi- 
ble, except by such windings and blind ways as they themselves only, 
who made them, could find. 

I asked tiiem what put them upon all these fortifications: he 
told me I would say there was need enough of it, when they had 
given me an account how they had passed their time since their 
arriving in the island, especiaUy after they had the misfortune to 
find Uiat I was gone. He told me he could not but have some 
satisfaction in my good fortune, when he heard that I was gone 
in a good ship, smd to my satis^tion ; and that he had oflentimes 
a strong persuasion that, one time or other, he should see me 
again ; but nothing that ever befell him in his life, he said, was so 
surprising and afflicting to him at first, as the disappointment he 
was imder when 1^ came back to the ii^and and found I was not 
there. 

As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that were left 
behind, and of whom, he said, he had a long story to tell me, tihe 
Spaniards all thought themselves much better among the savages, 
only that their number was so small : and, says he, had they been 
strdhg enough, we had been all long ago in purgatory ; and with 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBIKBON CRUaOK. 273 

tkat be crossed himself on the breast But, sir, says he, I hope 
you will not be di^leased when I shall tell you, how, forced by 
necessity, we were obliged, for our own preservation, to disarm 
them, and make them our subjects, who would not be content 
with being moderately our masters, but would be our murderers. 
I answered, I was heartily afraid of it when I left them there, and 
nothing troubled me at my parting from the island but that they 
were not come back, that I might have put them in possession 
of every thing at first, and left the others in a state of subjection, 
as they deserved ; but if they had reduced them to it, I was very 
glad, and should be very far from finding, any fault with it : for I 
knew they were a parcel of refractory, ungovemed villains, and 
were fit for any manner of mischief. 

While I was thus saying this, the man came whom he had sent 
back, aiid with hkn eleven m^i more. In the dress they were 
in, it was impossible to guess what nation they were of ; but he 
made all clear, both to them and to me. First he turned to me, 
and pointing to them, eaid. These, sir, are some of the gentlemen 
who owe their lives to you ; and then turning to them, and point- 
ing to me, he let them know who I was; upon which they all 
came up, one by one, not as if they had been sailors and or- 
dinary fellows, and the like, but really as if tiiey had been am- 
bassadors of noblemen, and I a monarch or great conqueror : their 
behaviour was to the last degree obliging and courteous, and yet 
mixed wiHi a manly, majestic gravity, which very well became 
them ; and, in short, they had so much more manners than I, that 
I scarce knew how to receive their civilities, much less how to re- 
turn them in kind. 

The history of tiieir coming to, and conduct in, the island, after 
my going away, is so very remai^able, and has so many incidents, 
which the former part of my relation will help to understand, and 
which will, in most of the particulars, refer to the account I have 
already given, tiiat I cannot but commit them, with great delight, to 
the reading of those that come after me. 

I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in the first 
person, which will put me to the expense of ten thousand soid Fs, 
and said he% and ke told me^s, and / told him% and the like ; but 
I shall collect the facts historically, as near as I can gather them 
out of my memory, from what they related to me, and from ^at 
I met with in my conversing with them and with the place. 

In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly ^ I can, I 
must go back to ihe circumstances in which I left the island, and 
in which the persons were of whom I am to speak. And first, it 
is necessary to repeat, that I had sent away Friday's father and 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



274 ADVENTtrmw of 

the Spaniard (the two \diose tires I bad rescaed from the 
savages) in a large canoe, to the main, as I then thought it, to 
fetch oyer the Spaniard's companions that he left behind him, in 
order to save them from the like calamity that he had been in, 
and in order to succour them for the present ; and that, if possible, 
we might togethw find some way for our deliverance afterwards. 

When I sent them away, I had no visible appearance of, or the 
leaf4 room to hope for, my own deliverance, any more than I had 
twenty years before, much less had I any foreknowledge of what 
afterwards happ^ed, I mean, of an English ship coming on shore 
there to fetdi me off; and it could not but be a very great sur- 
prise to them, when they came back, not only to find that I was 
gone, but to find three strangers left on the spot, possessed of all 
that I had left behind me^ which would otherwise have been 
their own. 

The first thing, however, which I inquired into, that I might 
begin where I left off, was of their own part; and I desired he 
would give lae a pajticolar account of his voyage back to his 
countrymen with the boat, when I sent him to fetch them over. 
He told me there was litUe variety in that part, for nothing re- 
markable happened to them on the way, haying had very calm 
weather and a smooth sea. As for his countrjrmen, it ccwld not 
be doubted, he said, but Uiat they were overjoyed to see him (it 
seems he was the {urineipal man amoi^ them, the captain of the 
vessel they had been shipwrecked in having been dead some 
time) ; they were, he said, the more sui^rised to see him, because 
tiiey knew that he was fallen into the hands pf the savages, 
who, tiiey were satisfied, would devour him, as they did all the 
rest of their prisoners ; that when he told them the story of his 
delivonmce, and in whsA manner he was furnished for carrying 
them away, it was like a dream to them, and their astonishment, 
he said, was somewhat like that of Joseph's brethren, when he 
told them who he was, and told them the story of his exaltation 
in Pharaoh's oourt; but when he idiowed them the arms, the 
powder, the ball, and provisions, that he had brought them for 
tiieir jonmey or voyage, they were restored to themselves, took 
a just share of the joy of their deliverance, and immediate pre- 
pared to c<Hne away v^dth him. 

Their first business was to get canoes : and in this they were 
obliged not to stick so much upon the honest part of it, but to 
trespass upon their friendly savages, and to Im^tow two large 
canoes, or periaguas, on pretence of going out a fishing, or fijr 
pleasure. In these they came away the next morning. It seems 
they wanted no time to get themselves ready ; for they had no 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 275 

baggage, neither clothes nor provisions, nor any tiling in the world 
but what they had on them, and a few roots to eat, of which they 
used to make their bread. 

They were in all three weeks absent ; and in that time, unluckily 
for them, I had the occasion offered for my escape, as I mentioned 
in my other part, and to get off from the island, leaving three of the 
most impudent, hardened, ungovemed, disagreeable villains behind 
me, that any man could desire to meet with ; to the poor Spaniards' 
great grief and disappointment, you may be sure. 

The only just thing the rogues did was, that when the Spaniards 
came ashore, they gave my letter to them, and gave them' pro- 
visions, and other relief, as I had ordered them to do ; also they 
gave them the long paper of directions which I had left with them, 
containing the particular methods which X took for managing every 
part of my life there ; the way how I baked my bread, bred up 
tame goats, and planted my corn ; how I cured my grapes, made 
my pots, and, in a word, every thing I did ; all this being written 
down, they gave to the Spaniards (two of them understood English 
well enough) : nor did they refuse to accommodate the Spaniards 
with any thing else, for they agreed very well for some time. They 
gave them an equal admission into the house, or cave, and they 
b3gan to live very sociably ; and the head Spaniard, who had 
seen pretty much of my methods, and Friday's father together, 
managed all their affairs; but as for the Engli^imen, they did 
nothing but ramble about the idand, shoot parrots, and catch tor- 
toises ; and when they came home at night, the Spaniards provided 
their suppers for them. 

The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, had the 
others but let them alone ; which, however, they could not find 
in tiieir hearts to do long, but, like the dog in the manger, they 
would not eat themselves, neither would they let th$ others eat. 
The differences, nevertheless, were at first but trivial, and such as 
are not worth relating, but at last it broke out into open war : and 
it began with all tiie rudeness and insolence that can be imagined, 
without reason, without provocation, contrary to nature, and, in- 
deed, to common sense ; and though, it is true, the first relation of 
it came from the Spaniards themselves^ whom I may call the ac- 
cusers, yet when I came to examine the felloves, they could not 
deny a word of it. 

But before I come to the particulars of this part, I must supply 
a defect in my former relation ; and this was, I forgot to set down, 
among the rest, that just as we were weighing the anchor to set 
•ail, there happened a little quarrel on board of our ship, which I 
was once a&aid would have turned to a second mutiny ; nor wa& 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



276 ADVENTURES OF 

it appeased till the captain, rousing up his courage, and taking ijis 
all to his a3sistance, parted them by force, and making two of the 
most refractory fellows prisoners, he laid them in irons ; and as 
they had been active in the former disorders, and let fall some ugly^ 
dangerous words, the second time he threatened to carry them in 
irons to England, and have them hanged there for mutiny, and run- 
ning away with the ship. This, it seems, though the captain did 
not intend to do it, frightened some other men in the ship ; and 
some of them had put it into the heads of the rest that the captain 
only gaye them good words for the present, till they should come 
to some English port, and that then they should be all put into 
gaol, and tried for their lives. The mate got intelligence of this, 
and acquainted us with it ; upon which it was desired that I, who 
still passed for a great man among them, should go down with the 
mate, and satisfy tiiie men, and tell them that they might be assured, 
if they behaved well the rest of the voyage, all they had done for 
the time past should be pardoned. So I went, and after passing 
my honour's word to them, Aey appeared easy, and the more so 
when I caused the two men that were in irons to be released and 
forgiven. 

But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night; 
the wind also falling calm next morning, we found that our two 
men who had been ^id in irons had stole each of them a musket, 
and some otiier weapons (what powder or shot they had we knew 
not), and had taken the ship's pinnace, which was not yet haled 
up, and run away with her to their companions in roguery on 
shore. *Ab soon as we found this, I ordered the long-boat on 
shore, with twelve men and the mate, and away they went to 
seek the rogues ; but they could neither find them or any of the 
rest, for they all fled into the woods when they saw the boat 
coming on shore. The mate was once resolved, in justice to their 
roguery, to have destroyed their plantations, burned all their house- 
hold-stuff and furniture, and lefl them to shift without it ; but having 
no orders, he let it all alone, left every thing as he found it, and 
bringing the pinnace away, came on board without them. These 
two men made their number five ; but the other three villains were 
80 much more wicked than they, that after they had been two or 
three days together, thuy turned the two new comers out of doors 
to shift for themselves, and would have nothing to do with them ; 
nor could they, for a good while, be persuaded to give them any 
food : as for the Spaniards, they were not yet come. 

TVhen the Spaniards came first on shore, the business began to 
go forward : the Spaniards would have persuaded the three Eng- 
lish brutes to have taken in tJ^eir two countiymen again, that, A 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 277 

they said, they might be all one family ; but they would not hear' of 
it : so the two poor fellows lived by themselves f and finding noth- 
ing but industry and application would make them live comfortably, 
they pitched th^ tents on the north shore of the island, but a little 
more to the west, to be out of danger of the savages, who always 
landed on the east part of the island. 

Here they built them two huts, one to lodge in, and the other to 
lay up their magazines and stores in ; »id the Spaniards having giv- 
en them some com for seed, and especially saasd of the peas which 
I had left them, they dug, planted, and enclosed, after the pattern I 
had set for them all, and began to live pretty well. Their first crop 
of corn was on the gromid ; and though it was but a little bit of land 
which they had dug up at first, having had but a lit^e time, yet it 
was enough to re^eve l^em, and find them with bread and other eat- 
ables ; and one of the fellows, being the cook Vmate of Uie ship, 
was very ready at making soup, puddings, and such ottier prepara- 
tions as the rice and the milk, and such lit^ flesh as ttiey got, fur- 
nished him to do. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION XXXlf . 

THE ACCOUNT CONTINUED. — QUARBELS BETWEEN THE ENGttSHWEW. — A 
BATTLE BETWEEN TWO PARTIES OF 8AVAOES WHO VISIT THE ISLAND. 
— FRESH MUTINY AMONG THE SETTLERS. 

They were going on in this little thriving posture, when the three* 
mmataral rogues, their own countrymen too, in mere humour, and to 
insult them, came and bullied them, and told them the island was 
theirs ; that the governor, meaning me, had given them the posses- 
sion of it, and nobody else had any right to it ; and that they should 
build no houses upon their ground, unless they would pay rent for 
them. 

The two men, thinking they were jesting at first, asked them to 
come in and sit down, and see what fine houses Uiey were that they 
had built, and to tell them what rent they demanded ; and one of 
them merrily said, if they were the ground-landlords, he hoped, if 
they built tenements upon their land, and made improvements, they 
would, according to the custom of landlords, |^nt a long lease : and 
desired they would get a scrivener to draw the writings. One of 
the three, cursing and raging, told them they should see they were 
not in jest ; and going to a little place at a distance, where the hon- 
e^ men had made a fire toydress theur victuals, he takes a firebrand, 
and claps it to the outside of their hut, and very fkirly set it on fire ; 
, and it would have been all burned down in a few minutes, if one of 
the two had not run to the fellow, thrust him away, and trod the fire 
out with his feet, and that not without some difficulty too. 

The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's thrusting 
him away, that he returned upon him, with a pole he had in hia 
hand, and had not the man avoided the blow very nimbly, and run 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRU90E. 279 

into the hut, he had ended his days at once. •His comrade, seeing 
the danger they were both in, ran in after him, and immediately 
they came both out with their muskets, and the man that was first 
struck at with the pole, knocked the fellow down that had begun 
the quarrel with the stock of his musket, and that before the other 
twa could come to help liim; and then seeing the rest come at 
them, they stood together, and presenting the other ends of their 
pieces to them, bade them stand off. 

The others had fire-arms with them too; but one of the two 
honest men, bolder than his comrade, and made desperate by his 
danger, told them, if they oflfered to move hand or foot they were 
dead men, and boldly commanded them to lay down their arms. 
They did not, indeed, lay down their arms, but seeing him so re- 
solute, it brought them to a pariey, and they consented to take 
their wounded man with them and be gone ;-and, indeed, it seems 
the fellow was wounded sufficiently with the blow. However, 
they were much in the wrong, since they had the advantage, that 
they did not disarm them effectually, as they might have done, 
and have gone immediately to the Spaniards, and given them an 
account how the rogues had treated them; for the three villains 
studied nothing but revenge, and every day gave them some inti- 
mation that they did so. 

But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser part of 
the rogueries, such as treading down their corn; shoo^g three 
young kids and a she goat, which the poor men had got to breed 
up tame for their store ; and, in a word, plaguing them night and 
day in this manner ; it forced the two men to such a desperation, 
that they resolved to fight them aU three, the first time they had 
a fair opportunity. In order to this, they resolved to go to the 
castle, as they called it (that was my old dwelling), where the 
three rogues and the Spaniards all lived together at that time, in- 
tending to have a fair battle, and the Spaniards should stand by, 
to see fair play : so they got Up in the morning before day, and 
came to the place, and called the Englishmen by their names, 
telling a Spaniard that answered that they wanted to speak with 
them. 

It happened that the day before, two of the Spaniards, having 
been in the woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom, 
for distinction, I called the honest men, and he had made a sad 
complaint to the Spaniards of the barbarous usage they had met 
with from their three countrymen, and how they had ruined their 
plantation, and destroyed their corn that they had laboured so 
hard to bring forward, and killed the milch goat and their ^ree 
kids, which was all they had provided for their wjstenaaee; and 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



280 ADTSNTUREl OF 

that if be and his /rieDds, meaning the Spaniards, did not assist 
them again, they i^ould be starved. When the Spaniards came 
home at night, and they were all at suppei', one of them took the 
freedom to reprove the three Englishmen, though in very gentle 
and mannerly terms, and asked them how they could be so cruel, 
they being harmless, inofiensive fellows; that they were putting 
themselves in a way to subsist by their labour, and that it had cost 
them a great^ deal of pains to bring things to such perfection as 
they were then in. 

One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, What had ttiey to 
do there? that they came on shore without leave; and that they 
should not plant or build upon the island ; it was none of their 
ground. Why, says the Spaniard, very calmly, Senhor IngJese, 
they must not starve. The Englishman replied, like a rough>bewn 

tarpauling. They might starve and be d d; they should 

not plant or biUld in that place. But what must they do then, 
senhor? said the Spaniard. Another of 4^e brutes returned, Do ? 

d ^n them, they should be servants, and work for ^em. But 

how can you expect that of tiiem % says the Spaniard ; they are 
not bought with your money; you have no right to make them 
servants. The Englishman answered, the island was &eirs ; the 
governor had given it to them? and no man had any thing to do 
there but themselves ; and with that swore by his Maker that they 
would go and bum all their new huts; they should build none 
upon their land. Why, senhor, s^ys the Spaniard, by the same 
rule, we must be your servants too. — ^Ay, says the bold dog, and 
so you shall too, before we have done with you (mixing two or 
three G — d d — ^n me's in the proper intervals of his speech). The 
Spaniard only smiled at that, and made him no answer. How- 
ever, this little discourse had heated them ; and, starting up, one 
says to the other, I think it was he they called Will Atkins, Come,^ 
Jack, let's go, and have t'other bjrush with 'em ; well demolish 
tiieir castle, I'll warrant you; they shall plant no colony in our 
dominions. 

Upon this tbey went all trooping away, with every man a gun, 
a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent things among 
themselves, of what they would do to the Spaniards too, when 
opportunity offered ; but the' Spaniards, it seems, did not so per- 
fectly understand them as to know all liie ]^articulars, only that, in 
general, they threatened them hard for taking the two English- 
men's part. 

Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that eve- 
ning, the Spaniards said they did not know; but it seems they 
wandered about the country part of the night, and then lying down 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRI7SOE. 281 

in the place which I used to call my bower, ^y were weary, and 
overslept themselves. The case was this : thdy had resolved to 
stay till midnight, and so to take the two poor men when they 
were asleep, and, as they acknowledged afterwards^ intended to 
set fire to their huts while they were in them, and either bum them 
there, or nrarder them as Ihey came out ; 9A malice seldom sleeps 
very sound, it was very strange they should not have been kept 
awake. 

However, as the two men had also a design upon them, as I have 
said, though a much fairer one Uian that of burning and murdering, 
it happened, and very luckily for ^em all, that they were up, 
and gone abroad^ belbre the bloody-minded rogues came to their 
huts. 

When they came there, and found the men gone, Atkins, who, 
it seems, was the forwardest man, called out to his comrades, Ha, 
Jack, here's the nest, but d — ^n them, the birds are flown. They 
mused a while, to think what should be the occasion of their being 
gone abroad so soon, and suggested presently that the Spaniards 
' had given them notice of it : and with that they ^ook hands, and 
swore to one another that they would be revenged of the Span- 
iards. As soon as l^y had made this bloody bargain, they fell 
to work with the poor men's habitation ; they did not set fire, in- 
deed, to any thing, but they pulled down both their houses, and 
pulled them so limb from Umb, that they left not the least stick 
standing, or scarce any sign on the ground where they stood : they 
tore aU their little collected household-stuff in pieces, and threw 
every thing about in such a manner^ that the poor men afterwards 
found some of their things a mile off their halntation. When they 
had done this, they pulled up aU the young trees which the poor 
men had planted; pulled up an enclosure ^ey had miule to 
secure ^ir cattle and their corn; and, in a word, sacked and 
laundered every thing as completely ai? a horde of Tartars would 
have done. 

The two men were, at this juncture, gone to find them out, and 
had resolved to fight Uiem wherever they had been, though they were 
but two to three ; so that, had they met, there certainly would have 
been bloodshed ^nong them ; for they were all very stout, resolute 
fellows, to give them their due. 

But Providence took more care to ke^ them asunder than they 
themselves could do to meet ; for, as if they had dogged one an- 
other, when the three had gone thither, the two were here ; and aft- 
erwards, when tibe two went back to find them, the three were come 
to l^e old habitation again : we shall see their, different conduct 
presently. When the three came back like furious creature^ 

24» 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



282 ADVENTURES OF 

flushed widi the rage which the work they ha^ heen about had 
put them into, they came up to the Spaniards, and told them what 
they had done, by way of scoff and bravado; and one of them 
stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple 
of boys at play, takes hold of his hat as it was upon his head, and 
giving it a twirl about, fleering in his fkce, says to him, And you, 
Senhor Jack Spaniard, shall have the same sauce, if you do not 
mend your manners. The Spaniard, who, though a quiet civil 
man, was as brave a man as could be, and withal a strong, well- 
made man, 10(^ed at him fbr a good while, and then, having no 
weapon in his hand, istepped gravely up to him, and with otse Wow 
of his fist knocked him down, as an ox is felled with a pole-axe ; 
at which one of the rogues, as insolent as the first, fired his pistol 
at the Spaniard immediately : he missed his body, indeed, for the 
bullets went through his hair, but one of them touched the tip of 
his ear, and he bled pretty much. The blood made the Spaniard 
believe he was more hurt tiian he really was, and that put him 
into some heat, for before be acted all in a perfect calm ; but now 
resolving to go through \nth his work, he stooped, and took the 
fellow's musket whom he had knocked down, and wa6 just going 
to shoot ^e man who had fired at him, when the rest of the Span- 
iards, being in ^e cave, came out, and calling to him tiot to shoot, 
tfiey stepped in, secuted the oliier two, and took their arms from 
them. 

When they were thus disarmed, and found they haid made all 
the Spaniards their enemies, as weH as their own countrymen, 
they began to cool, and, grdng the Spaniards better words, would 
have their arms again; but ^e Spaniards, considering the fbud 
that was between them and t^e other two Engiishmen, and that 
it woidd be the best method they could take to keep them from 
kifling one another, told Ihem they would do them no harm, Sind 
if they would live peaceably, they would be rery willing to assist 
and associate with them as they did before ; but that they coidd 
not think of giving them their arms again, while they appeared 
so resolved to do mischief with them to their own coun- 
trymen, and had even threatened them aH to make ihem tfceir 
servants. 

The rogues were now no more capable to hear reason, than to 
act wilii reason ; but being refused their arms, they went raving 
away, and raging Kke madmen, threatening what they would do, 
though they had no firearms* But the Spaniards, despising their 
threatening, told tiiem they should take care how they offered 
any injury to their plantation or cattle, fbr if they did, they would 
ihoot them a« they woidd ravenous beasts, wherever they fbund 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRTT90E. 263 

them; and if they feH into their hands alrre, they should certainly 
be hsHiged. However, this was far from cooling them, hot away 
they went, raging and swearing like furies of bell. As soon as 
tiiey were gone, the two men came back, in passion and rage 
enough also, though of another kind ; for having been at Uteir 
plantation, and finding it aH demolished and destroyed, as above, 
it wHl easily be supposed they had provocation enough. They 
could scarce have room to tell their tale, the Spaniards were so 
eager to teH them theirs ; and it was strange enough to find that 
three men should thus buUy nineteen, and receive no punishment 
at all. 

The Spaniards, indeed, despised them, and especially, having 
ttius disarmed them, made light <^ their teeatenings ; but the two 
EugHshmen reeved to have their remedy against them, what pains 
soever it cost to find them out. But tiie Spaniards interposed here 
too, and told them, that as they had disarmed them, they could not 
consent that they (the two) should pursue them with fire-arms, and 
perhaps kill them. But, said the grave Spaniard, who was their 
governor, we will endeavour to make them do you justice, if you 
will leave it to us : for there is no doubt but ^ley will come to us 
again, when their passion is over, being not able to subsist without 
our assistance: we promise you to make no peace with them, 
ti^ithout having a full sadsfactbn for you ; and upon this condition 
we hope you will promise to use no violence with them, oliier than 
in your own defence. The two Englishmen yielded to this very 
awkwardly, and with great reluctance ; but the Spaniards protest- 
ed, that they did it only to keep them from bloodshed, and to make 
all easy at last. For, said they, we are not so many of us; here 
is room enough for us a31, and it is a great pity we should not be all 
good friends. At length ttiey did consent, and waited for the issue 
of the tiling, living for some days wife the Spaniards ; for their own 
habitation was destroyed. 

In abotft ^ye days' time the three vagrants, thred with wander- 
ing, and almost starved with hunger, having chiefly Kved on turtle's 
eggs all that while, came back to the grove ; and finding my Span- 
iard, who, as I have said, was the governor, and two more with 
him 'mdking by the side of the creek, they came up in a very sub- 
missive, humble manner, and begged to be received again into the 
ftmily. The Spaniards used tiiem civilly, but tdd them they had 
acted so unnaturally by their countrymen, and so very grossly by 
them (the Spaniards), that they could not come to any conclusion 
without confiralting the two Englishmen and the rest ; but, however, 
they would gp to them, aftd discourse about it, and they should 
Juiow in half an bout. It may be guessed that Hiej were very hard 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



284 ADVENTURES OF 

pot to it : for, it seems, as they were to wait this half lurar fe an 
answer, they begged they would send them ont some bread in the 
mean time, which they did ; sending, at the same time^ a large piece 
of goat^s flesh, and a boiled parrot, which they ate very heartily, for 
they were hungry enough. 

After half an bourns consohatioa, they were called in, and a long 
debate ensued ; their two countrymen charging them with ^e ruin 
of all their labour, and a de«gn to murder them ; all which they 
owned before, and therefore oould not deny now. Upon the whole, 
the Spaniards acted the moderator between them ; and as they had 
obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt the three while they were 
naked and unarmed, so they now d)liged ihe three to go «id re- 
build their fellows^ two huts, one to be of the same and the other <^ 
larger dimensions, than they w^e befwe ; to fence liieir s^xrand 
again where they had palled up their fences, plairt trees in the room 
of those pulled up, dig up liie land again lor planting com where 
they had ^>oiled it, and, in a word, to restore every thing in the 
same state as they found it, as near as they could ; for entir^y it 
could not be, the season for the com, and ^e growth of the trees 
and hedges, not being possible to be recovered. 

Well, they submitted to all this ; and as they had plenty of pro- 
vi^ns given them all the while, they grew very orderiy> and the 
whole soci^ began to live pleasandy and agreeably together again ; 
only, that these three fellows could never be persuaded to work, I 
mean for themsdves, except now and then a little, just as they 
pleased : however, the Spaniards UAd them plainly, that if they 
would but live sociaUy and friendly together, and study the good 
of the whole plantation, they would be content to work for them, 
and let them walk about and be as idle as they pleased : and thus 
having lived pretty well together for a month or two> the Spaniards 
gave them arms again* and gave them liberty to go abroad witli 
them as before. 

It was ndt above a week after they had these arms, and went 
abfoad, but the ungrateful creatures began to be as insolent and 
troublesome as before : but, however, an accident happened present- 
ly upon this, which endangered the safety of them all ; and they 
were obliged to lay by all private resentments, and look to the pr^ 
servation of their lives. 

It happened <me night, tliat the Spanish governor, as I call bun, 
that is to say, the Spaniard whose life I had saved, who was now 
the captain, or leader, or governor of the rest, found himself very 
uneasy in the night, and could by no means get any sleep : he was 
perfectly w^ in body, as he told me the story, only found his 
thoughts tumultuous ; hts mind ran upon men fighting and kUliof 



Digitized by VjOO^ IC 



jiomnaoit cRtJSOE. 285 

of one anoliter, but he was broad awa^, and could not by any 
mealis get any sleep ; in short, he lay a great while ; but growii^ 
more and more uneasy, he resolved to r»e. As they lay, being so 
many of them, upon goats^ skias laid thick upon such couches and 
pads as they made for themselves, and not in hammocks and ship 
beds, as I did, who was but one, so they had little to do, when they 
were willing to rise, but to get up upon their feet, and perhaps put 
on a coat, such as it was, and ^eir pumps, and they were ready for 
going any way that their tiioughts guided them. Being thus got up, 
he looked out ; but, being dark, he could see little or nothing ; and, 
besides, the trees which I had planted, as in my former account is 
described, and which were now grown tall, intercepted his sight, so 
tliat he could only look up, and see that it was a clear starlight night, 
and hearing no noise, he returned and laid him down again : but it 
was all one ; he could not sleep, nor could he compose himself to 
any tiling like rest ; but his tiioughts were to the last degree uneasy, 
and he knew not for what. 

Having made some noise with rising and walking about, going 
out and coming in, another of the^ waked, and calling, asked who 
it was that was up. The governor UAd him how it had been with 
him. Say you so ? says the other Spaniard ; such things are not 
to be ^ghted, I assure you ; there is certainly some mischief work- 
ing near ns : and presently he asked him. Where are the English- 
men ? — They are all in their huts, says he, safe enough. It seems 
the Spaniards had kept possession of the main apartment, and had 
made a place for the three Englisimien, who, since their last mu- 
tiny, were always quartered by themselves, and could not come 
at the rest. Well, says the Spaniard, titere is something in it, I 
am persuaded, from my own experience. I am satisfied our spirits 
embodied have a converse with, and receive mtelligence from, the 
spirits unembodied, and inhabiting the invisible world ; and this 
friendly notice is given for our advantage, if we knew how to make 
use of it. Come, says he, let us go and look abroad ; and if we 
find nothing at all in it to justify the trouble, 111 tell you a story 
to the purpose, tiiat shall convince you of tiie justice of my press- 
ing it. 

In a word, they went out, to go up to the top of the ^11, where I 
used to go ; but they being strong, and a good company, not alone, 
as I was, used none of my cautions, to go up by the ladder, and 
pulling it up after them, to go up a second stage to the top, but were 
going round through the grove, unconcerned and unwary, when 
tliey were surprised with seehig a light as of fire, a very little way 
off from item, and hearing the voices of men, not of one or two, but 
of a great number. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



286 APVENTUAst or 

In dl tke diseoTeiies I had raade of tbe «nr«g^ Uadi^ (m. tira 
iBland, it was my eoasUnt caire to preveot thexn making the least 
cUacoveiy of th^re being any inhabitant upon the plaee ', and when 
by any occasion they caune to know it, they felt it so .effeotuallyf 
^t they that got away wexe. scarce able to gWe any a<^ount of 
it ; for we diss^peaured as soon as possible ; nor did erer ai^ that 
had seen me escape to teU any one else, except it was the three 
savages in onr last encounter, who jnmped into the boat; of whom, 
I mentioned, I was afraid ^y should go home and bring more 
help. Whether it was the consequence of the escape of those men 
that so great a number came now together, or whether they came 
ignorantly, and by accident, on their usual bloody errand, the Span- 
iards could not, it seems, understand ; but, whatover it was, it had 
been their business either to have concealed themselves, or not 
to have seen them at all, much less to have let the savages have 
seen that there were any inhabitants in the jpl&ce; or to have 
fallen upon them so eSeetoally, as that not a man of them should 
have escaped, which could only have been by getting in be- 
tween them and their boats : but this presence of mind was want^ 
ing to them» which was the ruin of their tranquillity for a great 
wlule. 

We need not doubt, but that th@ governor and the man with 
him, surprised witii iJtm dight, ran back immediately, and raised 
their fellows, giving them an account of the imminent danger 
they were all in, and they again as readily took the alarm; 
but it was impossible to persuade them to stay dose within^ 
where Ihey were, but they must all run out to see how things 
stood. 

While it was daric, indeed, they were iii^ell enough, and they, 
had opportunity enough, for some hours, to view them by the 
light of three fires they had made at a distance from one 
another; what ikey were doing they knew not, and what to 
do themselves they knew not For, first, the enemy were too 
many; and, secondly^ they did not keep together, but were 
divided into several parties, and were on shore in several 
places. 

The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this sii^t ; and - 
as they found that the fellows ran straggling all over the shorCt 
they made no doubt but, first or last, some of them would chop in. 
upon their habitation, or upon some other place where they would 
see the token of inhabitants ; and they were in great perplexity 
also for fesur of their flock of goats, which would have been little, 
less than starving them, if they should have been destroyed ; so 
the first thing they resolved upon was, to dispatoh three men awa;^ > 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



R0BINJ50N CRUSOE. 287 

before it was light,. two Spaniards and one EngUshmai^ to drive 
all the goats away to the great valley where ti.e cave was, and^ 
if need were, to drive them into the very cave itself. Could they 
have seen th^ savages all together in one body, and at a distance 
from their canoes, they resolved, if there had been a hundred of 
them, to have attacked them ; but that could not be obtained ; for 
they were some of them two miles off from the other ; and, as it 
appeared afterwards, were of two different nations. 

After having mused a great while on the course they should 
take, and beating their brains in considering their present circum- 
stances, they resol?ed, at last, while it was still dark, to send the 
old savage^ Friday's father, out as a spy, to learn, if possible, 
something concerning them ; as wha^ they came for, what they 
intended to do, and the like. The old maa readily undertook it ; 
and stripping himself quite naked, as most of the savages were, 
away he went. Aflei he had been gone an hour or two, he brings 
word that he had been among them undiscovered; that he found 
ihej were two parties, and of two several nations, who had war 
with one another, and had a great battle in their own country : 
and. that both sides having had several prisoners taken in the fight, 
they were, by mere chance, landed all on the same island, for the 
devouring their prisoners and making merry, but their coming so 
by chance to the same place had spoiled all Iheir mirth ; that they 
were in a great rage at one another, and were so near, that he be- 
lieved they would fight again as soon as daylight began to appear ; 
but he did not perceive that they had ai^y notion of any body being 
on the island but themselves. He had hardly made an end of 
telling his story, when they could perceive, by the upi^ual noise 
they made, that the two little armies were engaged in a bloody 
fight. 

Friday's father used all the arguments he could to persuade our 
people to lie close, and not to be seen ; he told them their safety 
consisted in it» and that they had nothing to do but lie s|ill, and 
the savages would kill one another to their hand^ and then the 
rest wonld go away ; and it was so to a tittle. Bu^ it was impos- 
sible to prevail, especially upon the Englishmen ; their curiosity 
was so in^rtnnate.upon their prudentials^ th^t they must run out 
and see the battle : however, they used some caution too, viz. they 
did not go openly^just by their own dwelling, but went farther 
into the woods, and placed themselves to advantage, where they 
might securely see them^ manage the fight, and, as they thought, 
not be seen hy them ; but it seems ihe savages did see them, as 
we shall find hereafter. 

The bat^ was very fierce ; and, if I ought believe the English*. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



288 ADVENTITRES OF 

men, one of them Mod he conld peteelve that 'Some of them were 
men of gpreat brayery, of inrincible spkits, and of great policy in 
guiding the fight The battle, they said, held two hours before 
thsy could guess which party would be beaten; bnt then, that 
party which was nearest our peq)le's habitattcm began to appear 
weakest, and, after some time more, some of them began to fly; 
and this put our men again into a great consternation, lest any one 
of those that fled should run into the grove before their dwelling for 
shelter, and thereby involuntarily discover the place ; and that, by 
consequence, the pursuers would do the like in search of them* 
Upon this they resolved that they would stand armed within the 
wall, and whoever came into the grove, they resolved to sally out 
over the wall and kill them : so that. If posmbie, not one shonld 
return to give an aocottnt of it : &ey ordered also that it should be 
done with their swords, or by knocking them down with the stocks 
of their muskets, but not by shooting them, for fear of iraising an 
alarm by the noise. 

As they expected, it feH out : three of the routed army fled for 
life, and crossing tho creek, ran directly into the ^ce, not in the 
least knowing whither they went, but running as into a thick wood 
for shelter. The scout they kept to look alwroad gave no^e of 
this within, with this addition, to our men^s great satis^tion, viz. 
that the conquerors had not pursued them, or seen whieh way 
they were gone ; upon this, the Spaniard governor, a man of hu- 
manity, would not suffer them to kill the three fugitives, but send- 
ing three men out by the top of die hill, ordered them to go round, 
come in behind them, and surprise and take them "prisoners, 
which was done. The residue of the conqueftd people fled to 
their canoes, and got off to sea ; the victors retired, made no pnr^ 
suit, or very litUe, but drawing themselves into a body together, 
gave two great screaming shouts, which they supposed was^ by 
way of trinmph, and so the fight ended : and ^e same day, about 
three o'clock in the afternoon, they also marched to their canoes. 
And thus the Spaniards had their island again free to th^aselTes, 
their fright was over, and they saw ne savages in several years 
after. 

After they were all gone, the Spaniards came ont of ^ir den, 
and viewing the field of battle, ^ey found s^ut two-and-thirty 
men dead on the ^ot; same were killed with great long arrows, 
some of which were found sticking in their bodies ; but most of 
them were killed with great wooden swords, wxteen or seventeen 
of which they found in the field of battle, and as many bows, with 
a great many arrows. These swords were strai^, great, un- 
wieldy tiungs, and they most be very strong men ^lat used t^m : 



Digitized 



by Google 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 289 

most of those men that were killed with them had their heads mash- 
ed to pieces, as we may say, <», as we call it in English, their brains 
knocked out, and several their arms and legs broken; so that it is 
evident they fight with inexpressible rage and fury. We found not 
one man that was not stone-dead, for either they stay by their enemy 
till they have (fate killed him, or they carry all the wounded men 
that are not quite dead away Math them. 

This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while ; the 
sight had filled them with horror, and the consequences appeared 
terrible to the last degree, especially upon supposing that some time 
or o^r they should fall into the hands of those creatures, who 
would not only kill them as enemies, but kill them for food, as we 
kill our cattle ; and they professed to me, that the thoughts of being 
eaten up like beef and mutton, though it was supposed it was not to 
be till Ihey were dead, had something in it so horrible, that it nau- 
seated their very stomachs, made them sick when they thought of 
it, and filled their minds with such unusual terror, that they were not 
themselves for some weeks after. This, as I said, tamed even the 
three English brutes I have been speaking of, and, for a great while 
after, ^y were tractable, and went about the common business of 
the whole society weU enough ; planted, sowed, reaped, and began 
to be all naturalized to the country. But some time after this, they 
fell into such sknple measures again, as brought them into a great 
deal of trouble. 

They had taken three priscmers, as I observed ; and these three 
being lusty, stout young fellows, they made them servants, and 
taught them to work for them ; and, as daves, they did well enough ; 
bat they did ntit ts^e their measures with them as I did by my 
man Friday, viz. to begin with them upon the jwrinciple of having 
saved their lives, and then instruct them in the rational princi- 
ples of life ; much less of religion, civilizing, and reducing them 
by kind usage and affectionate arguings; but as they gave them 
their food every day, so they gave them their work too, and kept 
them fully employed in drudgery enough; but they &iled in this 
by it, that they never had them to assist them, and fight for them, 
as I had my man Friday, who was as true to me as the very flesh 
upon my bones. 

But to come to the family part Being all now good friends, 
for common danger, as I said above, had effectually reconciled 
them, they began to consider their general circumi^tances ; and 
the first thing that came under their consideration was, whether, 
seeing the savages particularly haunted that side of the island, and 
that there were more remote and retired parts of it equally adapted 
to their way of living, and manifestly to their advantage, they 

25 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



290 ADVENTURES OF 

should not rather more their habitation, and plant in some mora 
proper place for their safety, and especially for the security of their 
cattle and com. 

Upon this, after long debate, it was concluded that they would 
not remove their habitation ; because that, some time or other, 
they thought they might hear from their governor again, meaning 
me ; and if I should send any one to seek them, I should be sure 
to direct them to that side ; where, if they should find the place 
demolished, they would conclude the savages had killed us all, 
and we were gone ; and so our supply would go to. But as to 
their com and cattle, they agreed to remove them into the valley 
where my cave was, where the land was as proper for both, and 
where, indeed, there vras land enough : however, upon second 
thoughts, they altered one part of their resolutiim too, and* re- 
solved only to remove part of their cattle thither, and ^ant part 
of their com there ; and so if <Hie part was destroyed, the other 
might be saved. And one part of pradence Ihey used, wfaidi it 
was very well they did, viz. that they never trusted ihxme three 
savages, which they had prisoners, wi^ knowing any thing of the 
plantation they had made in that valley, or of any cattle they had 
there, much less of the cave there, which they kept, in case of 
necessity, as a safe retreat ; and thither they carried also the two 
barrels of powder which I had sent them at my coming away^. 
But, however, they resolved^ not to change their habitation ; yet 
they agreed, that as I had carefully covered it first with a wafl or 
fortification, and then with a grove of trees, so seeing their safety- 
consisted entirely in their being concealed, of which they were 
now fully convinced, they set to work to cover and conceal the 
place yet more efiectually than before. For this purpose, as I 
planted trees, or rather thrust in stakes, which in time all grew 
up to be trees, for some good distance before the entrance into my 
apartments, they went on in the same manner, and filled up the 
rest of that whole space of ground, from the trees I had set, quite 
down to the side of the creek, where, as I said, I landed my floats, 
and even into the very ooze where the tide .flowed, not so much 
as leaving any place to land, or any sign that there had been any 
landing thereabout : these stakes also being of a wood very for- 
ward to grow, as I have noted formerly, they took care to have 
them generally much larger and taller than those which I had 
planted ; and as they grew apace, so they planted them so very 
thick and close together, that when they had been three or four 
years grown, there was no piercing with the eye any considerable 
way into the plantatiwi : and, as for that part which I had planted, 
the trees were grown as thick as a man's thigh, and among them 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 291 

they i^aced so many ether ^ort ones, aad so thick, Uiat, in a 
word, it stood like a pallisado a quarter of a mile thiek, and it was 
next to impossible to penetrale it, but with a little anny to cut it all 
down ; for a little dog could hardly get between the trees, they stood 
sO close. 

But thi» was not all ; for they did the same by all the ground to 
the right hand and to the left, and round even to the top of the 
hill, leaying no way, not so much as for themselves to come out, 
but ^y the ladder placed up to the side of the hill, and then lifted 
up, and placed again from the first stage up to the top ; and when 
the ladder was taken down, nothing but what had wings, or witch- 
craft to assist it, could dome at them. This was excellently well 
contrived ; nor was it less than what they afterwards found occa- 
sion for ; which served to convince me, Ihat as human prudence has 
the authority of Providence to ju^fy it, so it hes doubtless the direc- 
tion of Providence to set it to work ; and if we listened carefully to 
the voice of it, I am persuaded we nnght prevent many of the disas- 
ters which oar lives are now, by our own negligence, subjected to : 
but this by the way. 

I return to the story. — They lived two years after this in perfect 
retir^nent, and had no more visi1» from the savages. They had 
indeed an alarm given them one morning, which put them into a 
' great consternation; for some of the Spaniards being out early 
one morning on the west side, or rather end, of the island (which 
was ^lat end where I never went, for fear of being discovered), 
they were surprised with seeing above twenty canoes of Indians 
just coming on shore. They made the best of their way home, in 
hurry enough ; and giving the alann to their comrades, they kept 
close all that day and the next, going ^nit- only at night to make their 
observation : but they had tiie good luck to be mistaken ; for wher- 
ever the savages went, they did not land that time on the island, but 
pursued some other design. 

And now they had another broil with the three Englishmen; 
one of whom, a most turbulent fellow, being in a rage at one of 
the three slaves, which I mentioned they had taken, because the 
fellow had not done sometiiing right which he bid him do, and 
seemed a litde untsractalde in his showing him, drew a hatchet 
out of a frog-belt, in which he wore it by his side, and fell upon 
the poor savage, not to correct him, but to kill him. One of the 
Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give the fellow a barbarous 
cut with the hatchet, which he aimed at his head, but struck into 
his shoulders, so that he thought he had cut the poor creature's 
arm off, ran to him, and entreating him not to murder the poor 
man, placed himself between him and the savage, to prevent the 



Digitized 



by Google 



293 ADVENTURES OF 

mischief, '/lie fellow being enraged the more at this, stnick at ^e 
Spaniard with his hatchet, and swore he would serre him as he 
intended to serve the savage; which ^e Spaniard perceiving, 
avoided Hie blow, and ¥rith a shovel which he had in his hand 
(for they were all working in the field about their corn-land), 
knocked the brato down. Another of the En^hmen running 
at the same time to help his comrade, knocked the Spaniard 
down; and then two Spaniards more came in to Irelp their man, 
and a third Englishman fell in upon tliem. They had none of 
them any fire-arms, or any other weapons but hatchets and other 
tools, except this third Englishman ; he had one of my rusty cot- 
lasses, with which he made at the two last Spaniards, and wounded 
them both. This fray set the whole famUy in an uproar, and 
more help coming in, they took the three Engtishmen prisoners. 
The next question was, v^t should be done with th^n? lliey 
had been so often mutinous, and were so very furious, so desperato, 
and so idle withal, they knew not what course to take with them, 
for they were mischierons to the highest degree, and valued not 
what hurt they did to any man ; so that, in short, it was not sale to 
live with them. 

The Spaniard who was goyemor told them, in so many words, 
that if they had been of his own country, he would have hanged 
them ; for all laws and all governors were to preserve society, ai»i 
those -who were dangerous to tiie society ought to be exp^ed ottt 
of it ; but as tiiey were ^ngliirimien, and liiat it was to the generous 
kindness of an Englishman Hiat they all owed their preservation and 
deliverance, he would use them with all possil^e lenity, and would 
leave them to the judgment of the other two Englishmen, who were 
their own countrymen. 

One of the two honest Eng^iiE^uBen stood up, and said they de- 
sired it might not be left to them ; For, says he, I am sure we ought 
to sentence them to the gallows : and with that he gives an account ~ 
how Will Alkins, one of the tiiree, had proposed to have all the five 
Englishmen join togeHier, and murder ^ the Spaniards when they 
were in their sleep. 

When the Spanish governor heard this, he cdls to Wifl Atkins, 
How, Senhor Atkins, would you murder us aU ? What have you 
to say to that? The hardened villain was so far from denying it, 
that he said it was true : and, G — d d — n him, they would do it 
still, before they had done with him. Well, but Senhc»r Atkins, 
says the Spaniard, what have we done to you, that you would kill 
us ? And what would you get by killing us ? And what must we 
do to prevent your killing us ? Must we kill you, or you kill us 1 
Why will you put us to the necessity of this, Senhor Atkins? 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUBOE. 293 

says ibe Spaniard yery calmly, and smilisig. SeiUior Atkins was 
in^ such a rage at the Spaniard's mddng a jest of it, that, had he 
not been held by three men, and withsd had no weapon near him, 
it was thought he woaM have attempted to have killed the Span-' 
iard in the middle of all the c<»npany. This hairbrain carriage 
(^iged them to consider serionsly what was to be done : the two 
Englishmen, and the Spaniard who saved the poor savage, were 
of the opinion diat they shonld hang one of tibree, for an example 
to ^e rest; a&d that partienlarly it should be he that had twice 
attempted to commit murder with his hatchet; and, indeed, there 
was some reason to believe he had done it, for &e poor savage 
was in soeh a miseraUe condHion with the wound he h^d receiv^, 
that it was thought he could not live. But the governor Spaniard 
still said no; it was an Englishman that had saved all their lives, 
and he would never consent to put an Englishman to death, though 
he baud murdered half <^ them: nay, he said, if he had been killed 
himself by an En^ishman, and had time left to speak, it should be 
that ih%y should pardon him. 

This was so positively insisted on by the governor Spaniard, 
^at there was no gainsaying it; and as merci^ counsels are 
most apt to prevail, when they are so earnestly pressed, so they all 
came into it ; but then it was to be considered what should be done 
to keep them from doing the aiiflchief they designed ; for all agreed, 
govenKjr and all, that means were to be used for preserving the so- 
ciety from danger. After a long debate, it was agreed, first, that 
tiiey shonld be disarmed, and not permitted to have either gun, pow- 
der, shot, sword, or any weapon ; and should be turned out of the 
society, and left to live where Hiey would, and how they would, by 
tiiemselves ; but that none of the rest, either Spaniards or English, 
should converse with tliem, spesk with them, or have ai^ tiling to 
do with them : that they should be forbid to emne within a certain 
distance of the |dace where the rest dwelt ; and if they offered to 
commit any disorders, so as to spoil, bum, kill, or destroy any of the 
com, planthogs, buildings, fences, or cattle bel<mging to the society, 
they should die without mercy, and they would shoot them wher- 
ever they could find them. 

The governor, a man of great humanity, musmg upon tiie 
sentence, considered a little upon it ; and turning to the two 
honest Englishmen, said, Hold; you must reflect that it will be 
long ere they can raise com and cattle of their own, and they 
must not starve ; we must therefoie allow them provisions : so he 
caused to be added, that they should have a proportion of com 
given tbem to last them eight months, and for seed to sow, by whieh 
time they might be supposed to raise aome of their own ; that they 

25* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



294 ADVENTURSS OF 

flhoold have six milch goats^ four he goats, aad mx kids giTea them, 
as well for present subsistence as for a store ; and that they should 
have tools given them for their work in the fields, such as ux hatch- 
ets, an adze, a saw, and the like ; but they shovdd have none of these 
tods or provisions, unless they would swear solemidy that they would 
not hurt or injure any of the Spaniazds with them, or of their £qUow 
Englishmen. 

Thus they dimnissed them the society, and turned them out to 
iriiift for themselves. They went away sullen and refractory, as 
neither ctnutent to go away nor to stay ; but, as there was no reme- 
dy, they went, pretending to go and choose a place where they would 
settle themselves; and some provisions were given them, but no 
weapons. 

About four or five days aft^, they came again for some victuals, 
and gave the governor an account where they bad pitched their 
tents, and marked themselves out a habilaiion and plantation; 
and it was a very convenient place, indeed, on the remotest p^ 
of the island, N. E., much about the jdaee where I providentially 
landed in my first voyage, when I was driven out to sea, the Lord 
alone knows whither, in my foolish attempt to sail round the 
island. 

Here ^y built themselves two handsome huts, and contrived 
them in a manner like my first habitation, being close under the 
ude of a hill, having some trees growing alreadj on three sides of 
it, so that by planting others, it would be very easily covered team 
the sight, unless narrowly searched for. They desired some dried 
goats^ skins, fi)r beds and covering, which were given them ; and 
upon giving their words that tiiey would not disturb the rest, or 
injure any of their plantations, they gave them hatchets, and 
what other tools they could spare ; some peas, bariey, and rice for 
sowing ; and, in a word, any thmg they wanted, except arms and 
ammunition. 

They lived in ^lis separate condition ahout ux months, and iHkd 
got in their first harvest, though the quaatity was but small, the 
parcel of land they had planted being Imt little; for, indeed, 
having all their plantation to form, they had a great deal of work 
upon their hands ; and when they came to make boards and pots, 
and such things, they were quite out of their element, and could 
make nothing of it ; and when the nuny season came on, for want 
of a cave in the earth, they could not keep their grain dry, and 
it was in great danger of spoiling; and this humbled them 
much: so they came and bdgged the Spaniards to help them, 
which they very readily did; and in four days worked a great 
hole in the side of the hill for them, big enough to secure their 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 295 

com and other things from the rain ; but it was bat a poor place, at 
best, compared to mine, and especially as mine was then, for the 
Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and made several new apart- 
ments in it 

About three quarters of a year after this separation, a new frolic 
took these rogues, which, together with the former yillany they had 
committed, brought mischief enough upon them, and had very near 
been the ruin of the whole colony. The three new associates be- 
gan, it seems, to be weary of the labcnrious life they led, and tiiat 
without hope of bettering their circumstances ; and a whim took 
them, that th^ would make a voyage to the continent, from whence 
the savages came, and would try if they could seize upon some pris- 
oners among the natives there, and Inring them home, so to make 
them do the laborious part of their work for them. 

The project was not so preposterous, if they had gone no farther : 
but they did nothings and proposed nothing, but had either mischief 
in the design, or mischief in the event : and, if I may give my opin- 
ion, they seemed to be under a blast from Heaven ; for if we will 
not allow a visible curse to pursue visible crimes, how shall we re« 
concile the events of things with the divine justice ? It was cer- 
tainly an i^parent vengeance on their crime of mutiny and piracy 
that brought them to the state they were in ; and they showed not 
the least remorse for the crime, but added new villanies to it, such 
as the piece of monstrous cruelty of wounding a poor slave, because 
he did not, or perhaps could not, understand to do what he directed, 
and to wound him in such a manner as made him a cripple all his 
life, and in a place where no surgeon or medicine could be had for 
his cure ; and what was still worse, the murderous intent, or, to do 
justice to the crime, the intentional murder, for such to be sure it 
was, as was afterwards the formed design they all laid} to murder 
the Spaniards in cold blood, and in their sleep. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION XXXV. 

THE MXTTINOUB BNOLI»HMBN ARE DISMISSED FROM THE ISLAND — RETITSN 
WITH SEVERAL CAPTIVE SAVAGES — TAKE THE FEMALES AS WIVES. — 
ARRIVAL OF SAVAGES. 

But I leave observing, and return to the story : — ^The ithree fel- 
lows came down to the Spaniards one morning, and in very humble 
terms de«red to be admitted to speak with them: the Spaniards 
very readily heard what they had to say, which was this : — That 
they were tired of living in the manner they did ; and that they 
were not handy enough to make the necessaries they wanted, and 
that having no help, they found they should be starved ; but if the 
Spaniards would give them leave to take one of the canoes which 
they came over in, and give them arms and ammunition proportion- 
ed to their defence, they would go^over to the main and seek their 
fortunes, and so deliver them from the trouble of supplying them 
with any other provisions. 

The Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of them, but very 
honestly represented to them the certain destruction they were 
running into; told them they had suffered such hardships upon 
that very spot, that they could, without any spirit of prophecy, 
tell them they would be starved, or murdered, smd bade ttiem con- 
sider of it. 

The men replied audaciously, they should be starved if they 
stayed here, for they could not work, and would not work, and 
they could but be starved abroad ; and if they were murdered, there 
was an end of them ; they had no wives or children to cry after 
them : and, in short, insisted importunately upon their demand ; 
declaring they would go, whether they would give them any arms 
or no. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 297 

The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that if Ihey were 
resolved to go, they should not go like naked men, and be in no 
condition to defend themselves : and that thongh they could ill spare 
their fire-arms, having not enough for themselves, yet they would 
jet them have two muskets, a pistol and a cutlass, and each man 
a hatchet, which they thought was sufficient fbr them. In a word, 
they accepted the offer; and having baked them bread enough to 
serve them a month, and given tiiem as much goats* flesh as they 
could eat while it was sweet, and a great basket of dried grapes, 
a pot of fresh water, and a young kid alive, they boldly set out 
in ihe canoe for a voyage over the sea, where it was at least forty 
miles broad. 

The boat, indeed, was a large one, and would very well have 
carried fifteen or twenty men, and therefore was ratiier too big 
for them to manage ; but as they had a fkir breeze, and flood tide 
with them, they did well enough. They had made a mast of a long 
pole, and a sail of four large goats' skins dried, which they had 
sewed or laced together ; and away they went merrily enough : the 
Spaniards called after them, Buen viage ; and no man ever thought 
of seeing them any more. 
^ The Spaniards were often saying to one another, and to the 
two honest Englishmen who remained behind, how quietly and 
comfortably they Uved, now these three turbulent feUows were 
gone ; as for their coming again, that was the remotest thing from 
their thoughts that could be imagined; when, behold, after two- 
and-twenty days' absence, one of the Englishmen, being abroad 
upon his planting work, sees three strange men coming towards 
him at a distance, with guns upon their shoulders. 

Away runs the Englishman, as . if he was bewitched, comes 
frightened and amazed to the governor Spaniard, and tells him they 
were all undone, for there were strangers landed upon the island, 
but could not tell who. The Spaniard, pausing a while, says to 
him. How do you mean, you cannot tell who % They are the sav- . 
ages, to be sure. — No, no, says the Englishman ; they are men in 
clothes, with arms. — Nay, then, says tiie Spaniard, why are you 
concerned 1 If they are not sayages, they must be friends ; for 
there is no Christian nation upon earth but wiU do us good rather 
than harm. 

While they were debating thui^ came the three Englishmen, 
and standing without the wood, which was new planted, hallooed to 
them : they presently knew their voices, and so all the wonder of that 
kind ceased. But now the admiration was turned upon another 
question, viz. What could be the matter, and what made them coma 
back again? 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



298 ADVENTURES OF 

It was not long before they brought the moi in, and inqolring 
where they had been, and what they had been doing, they gave 
them a full account of their voyage in a few words, viz. That 
they reached the land in two days, or something less ; but finding 
the people alarmed i^ their coming, and preparing with bows and 
arrows to fight them, they durst not go on shore, but sailed on to 
the northward six or seven hours, till they came to a great open- 
ing, by which they perceived that the land they saw from our island 
was not the main, but an island ; upon entering that opening of 
the sea, they saw another island on the right hand, north, and 
several mwe west; and being resolved to land somewhere, they 
put over to one of the islands which lay west, and went boldly on 
shore : that they found the people very courteous and friendly to 
them ; and that they gave them seversd roots and scune dried fish, 
and appeared v«ry sociaUe ; and the women as well as the m^i 
were very forward to supply them with any thing they could get 
for them to eat, and brought it to them a great way upon their 
heads. 

They c<mtinued here four days; and inquired, as #eU as they 
could of them, by signs, what nations were this way, and that 
way ; and were told of several fierce and terrible people that lived 
almost every way, who, as they made known by signs to them, used 
to eat men ; but as for themselves, they said, they never ate 
men or women, except only such as they took in the wars; 
and then, they owned, they made a great feast, and ate their 
prisoners. 

The Englishmen inquired when they had a feast of that kind ; 
and they told them about two moons ago, pointing to the moon, 
and to two fingers; and that their great king had two hundred 
prisoners now, which he had taken in his war, a^d they were feed- 
ing them to make them fat for the next feast The Englishmen 
seemed mighty desirous of seeing those prisoners ; but the otiiezs 
mistaking them, thought they were desirous to have some of them to 
carry away for their own^ eating; so they beckoned to them, point- 
ing to the setting of the sun, and then to the rising ; which was to 
signify, that the next morning at simrising they would bring som^ 
for them ; and, accordingly, the next morning, they brought down 
five women and eleven men, and gave them to the Englishmen, to 
carry with them on their voyage, just as we would bring so many 
cows and oxen down to a seaport town to victual a ship. 

As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home, their 
stomachs turned at this, sight, and they did not know what to do. 
To refuse the prisoners would have been the high^t affiront to the 
savage gentry that could be oflfered them, and what to do wjth 



Digitized 



by Google 



ROBINSON causos. 299 

them thej knew not Howev^, ader some debste, they resolred 
to accept of them ; and, in return, they gave the sarages that 
brought them one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife,. and six or 
seven of their bullets ; which, though they did mrt understand their 
use, they seemed particularly pleased with ; and then tying the poor 
creatures' hands behind them, they dragged the prisoners into the 
boat for our men. 

The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they 
had them, or else they that gare them this nobk present would 
certainly have expected that ihey shoidd have gone to work with 
them, have killed two or three of them the next morning, and per- 
haps have invited the donors to dinner. But having t|kken their 
leave, with all the respect and thanks that could well pass between 
people, where, on either nde, they understood not one word they 
could- say, they put oflf with their boat, and came back towards 
the first island; i^ere, when they arrived, they set eight of 
their prisoners at liberty, there ]mag too Humy of them for their 
occasion. 

In their voyage, they endeavoured to have some eonmnmication 
with their prisoners; but it was impossible to make them under- 
stand any thing ; nothing they oould say to them, or give them, or 
do for them, but was looked upon as going to murder them. They 
first of all unbound them ; but the poor creatures screamed at that, 
especially the women, as if they had just felt the knife at their 
throats ; for they immediately concluded they were mibound on pur- 
pose to be killed. If they gave them any thing to eat, it was the 
same thing ; they then concluded, it was for fear they akomld sink in 
fie^, and so not be fat enough to kill. If they looked at one of 
Hiem more particularly, the party presently concluded, it was to see 
whether he or she was fattest, and fittest to kill first : nay, after they 
had brought them quite over, and began to use them kindly, and treat 
them well, still they expected every day to make a dinner or sup- 
per fbr their new masters. 

When the three wanderers had given this imaecountable history 
or journal of their voyage, the Spaniard asked them where their 
new family was ; and being told ttiat ^y had brought them on 
shore, and put them into one of their huts, and were come up to 
beg some victuals for th^m, they (the Spaniards) and the other 
two Englishmen, that is to say, the whole colony, resolved to go all 
down to the place and see them ; and did so, and Friday's &ther 
with them. 

When they came into the hut, there they sat all bound; for 
when they haA. brought them on shore, they bound their hands, 
that they might not take the boat and make their escape ; there, I 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



300 ADVENTURES OF 

•ay, they nt, all of them ataxk naked. First, there were three 
men, ksty, comely fellows, well shaped, straight and fair limbs, 
i^Kwt thirty to thixty^fire years of age ; and five women, whereof 
two might be from, thirty to forty ; two more not above four or 
five-and-twenty ; and the fifth, a tall, comely maiden, about six- 
teen or sevei^een. The women were well favoured, agreeable 
persons, both in shape and features, only tawny ; and two of them, 
had they been perfect white, would have passed for very handsome 
women, even in Iiondon itself, having pleasant, agreeable counte- 
nances, and of a very modest behaviour: especially when they 
oame afterwards to be clothed and dressed, as they called it, thongh 
that diesa was very indifferent, it must be confessed ; of which here- 
after. 

The sight, yon may be sure, was something uncouth to our 
Spaniards, who were, to give them a just character, men of the best 
behaviour, of the most cahn, sedate tampers, and perfect good hu- 
moor, that ever I met with ; and, in particular, of the most modesty, 
as will presently appear : I say, the sight was very uncouth, to see 
three naked men and five nal^ w(nnen, all together bound, and in 
the most miseradde circumstances that human nature could be sup- 
posed to be, viz. to be expecting every mon^ent to be dragged out, 
and have their brains knocked ou^ and then to be eaten up like a 
calf that is kitted for a dainty. 

The first thing they did was to cause. the old Indian, Friday's 
fiither, to go in, and see, first, if he knew any of them, and then if 
he understood 3ny of their speech. As soon as ihe old man oame 
in, he looked seriously at thran, but knew none of them ; neith^ 
could any of them understand a word he said, or a sign he could 
make, except <me of the women. However, this was enough to aa- 
8wer the end, which was to satisfy them that the men into whose 
hands they were &llen were Christians ; that they abhorred eating 
men or women ; and that they might be sure they would not be lolled. 
As soon as they were assured of this, they discovered such a jc^, 
and by such awkward gestures, several ways, as is hard to describe ; 
for, it seems, they were of several nations. 

The woman who was their interpreter was bid, in the next place, 
to adc them if they were virilling to be servants, and to work for the 
m»i who had brought th^n away, to save their lives ; at which they 
all fbll a dancing ; and presently one fell to taking up this, and an- 
other that, any thing that lay next, to carry on their shoulders, to in- 
timate that they were willing to work. 

The governor, who found that the having women among them 
would presently be attended with some inconvenience, and might 
occasion some strife, and perhaps blood, asked the three men what 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



KOBINSON CRUSOE. 301 

ihey intended to do with these women, and how they intended to 
use them, whether as servants or as women ? One of the English- 
men answered very holdly and readily, that they woidd use them 
as hoth ; to which the governor said, I am not going to restrain you 
from it; you are your own masters as to that; but this I U^uik 
is but just, for avoiding disorders and quarrels among you, and I 
desire it of you for that reason only, viz. that you will all engage, 
that if any of you take any of these women, as a woman or wife, 
ihsit he shall take but one : and that having taken one, none eke 
shall touch her ; for though we cannot marry any one of you, yet 
it is but reasonable that while you stay here, the woman any of 
you takes should be maintained by the man ^t takes her, and 
should be his wife ; I mean, says he, while he continues here, 
and that none else shall have any thing to do with her. AH 
this appeared so just, that every one agreed to it without any 
difficulty. 

Then the Engli^unen asked the Spaniards if they designed to 
take any of them ? But every one of them answered no : some 
of them said tiiey had wives in Spain, and the others did not like 
wcHuen that were not Christians : and all together declared that 
&ey would not touch one of them; which was an instance c^ 
such virtue as I have not met with ia all my travels. On tl^ 
other hand, to i)e shcnrt, the five Englishmen took them every <me 
a wife, that is to say, a temporary wife ; so they set up a new form 
of living ; for the Spaniards and Friday's father Hved in my old 
habitation, which they had eidarged exceedingly vdthin. The three 
servants which were taken in the late battle of the savages lived 
with them ; and these carried on ^e main part of the colony, sup- 
fdied aU the rest with food, and assisted them in any thing as they 
could, or as they found neoeauty required. 

But the wonder of this story was, how five such retectory, ill 
matched fellows, should agree about tiiese wcnnen, and that two of 
ihem should not pitch upon the same womaU) especially seeing two 
or three oi them were, without comparison, m<^ce agreeable than the 
olliers : but they took a good way enough to prevent quarrelling 
among themselves ; for they set tiie five women by themselves in 
one of their huts, and they went all into the other hut, and drew lota 
among them who should choose first. 

He that drew to choose first went aveay by himself to the hut 
where the poor naked creatures were, and fetched out her he 
chose ; and it was worth observing, that he that chose first took 
her that was reckoned ^6 homeliest and oldest of the five, which 
made mirth enough among the rest; and even the Spaniards 
laughed at it : but the fellow considered better than any of them, 
^ 26 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



302 ADVENTURES Of 

that it was i^iplication and business they were to ejq>ect assistance 
in, as much as in any thing else ; and she proved the best wife of 
all the parcel. 

When ^e poor women saw themselves set in a row thns^and 
fetched out one by one, the terrors of their condition letumed upon 
them again, and they firmly beHeved they were now going to be 
devour^. Accordingly, when the English sailor came in and 
fetched out one of them, the rest set up a most lamentaUe cry, and 
hung about her, and took their leave of her witii such agonies and 
affection, as would have grieved the hardest heart in the world ; 
nor was it possible for the Englishmen to satisfy them that they 
were not to be immediately murdered, till they fetched the old 
man, Friday's father, who immediately let them know that the five 
men, who had fetched them out one by one, had chosen them fbr 
their wives. 

When they had done, and the fright the women were in was a 
little over, the men went to work, and the Spaniards came and 
helped them; and^ a few hours they had. built th^n every one a 
new hut or tent for their lodging apart; for those they had al« 
ready were crowded with their tools, househoid stuff, and provis- 
ions. The three wicked cmes had pitched fiuthest off, and tiie two 
honest ones nearer, but both on the north shore oi the island, so 
that. they continued separated as be£[>re ; and thus my island was 
peopled in three places ; and, as I might say, three towns were be- 
gun to be built. 

And here it is very well worth observing, that, as it o^n hi^ 
pens in the world (what the wise ends of God's providence are in 
such a disposition of thmgs, I cannot say), the two honest fellows 
had the two worst wives ; and the three reprobates, that were scarce 
worth hanging, that were fit for notiiing, and neither seemed bom 
to do themselves good, nor any one else, had three clever, diligent, 
careful, and ingenious wives ; not that the first two w^re bad wives, 
as to their temper or humour, fer all the five were most willing, 
quiet, passiye, and subjected creatures, rather like slaves than wives ; 
b(ft my meaning is, they were not alike capable, ingenious, or indus- 
trious, or alike cleanly and neat. 

Another observation I must make, to the honour of a diligent 
application, oa one hand, and to the disgrace of a slothfcd, negli- 
gent, idle temper, on the other, that when I came to tiie place, 
and viewed the several improvements, {bantings, and muiagement 
of the several littie colonies, the two men hsud. so &r outgone the 
three, that there was no comparison. They had, indeed, both of 
them as much ground laid out for com as they wanted, and the 
reason was, because, according to my rule, nature dictated thai 



i 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINfON CRUSOE. 303 

it was to no purpose to bow more com than ihey wanted ; but the 
difierence of the cultiyation, of the planting, of the fences, and, in- 
deed, of every thing else, was easy to be seen at first view. 

The two men had innumerable young trees planted about their 
huts, 80 that when you came to the place, nothing was to be seen 
but a wood : and though they Had twice had their plantation de- 
moliriied, once by their own countrymen, and once by the enemy, 
as shaU be shown in its place, yet they had restored all again, 
and every thing was thriving and flourishing abotft them: they 
had gr2^[)es planted in order, and managed like a vineyard, tiiough 
they had themselves never seen any thing of that kind ; and by 
tiieir good ordering their vines, their grapes were as good again 
as any t>f the others. They had also found themselves out a re- 
treat in the thickest part of the woods ; where, though there was 
not a m^ral cave, as I had found, yet they made one with in- 
cessant labour of their hands, and where, when the mischief 
which fi^owed happened, they secured their wives and children, 
so as they could never be found ; they having, l^ sticking innu- 
merable stakes and poles of the wood which, as I said, grew -so 
leadSy, made the grove unpassaUe, except in some places where 
they climbed up to get over the outside part, and then went oa 
by ways of their own leaving. 

As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them, though they 
were much civilized by their settlement compared to what they 
were before, and were not so quarrels(Mne, having not the same 
opportunity ; yet one oi the obtain companions of a profligate 
mind never left them, and that was their idleness. It is true, 
they planted com, and made fences; but Solomon^s words were 
never better verged than in thraa, '' I went by the vineyard of 
the slo^ul, and it was all overgrown with thorns ;*' for when the 
Spaniards came to view their crop, they could not see it in some 
I^aces for weeds; the hedge had several gaps in it, where the 
wild goats had got in and eaten up the eom ; perhaps here and 
there a dead bush was craiamned in, to stop them out for the pres- 
ent, but it was only shnttiBg Ihe staUe-door afler the steed was 
stolen: whereas, when they looked on the colony of 'tiie other 
two, there was &e very face of industry and success upon all 
tiiey did ; there was not a weed to be seen in all their com, or a 
gap in any of their hedges ; and tiiey, on the other hand, verified 
Solomon's words in another place, "^ tiiat the diligent hand maketh 
rich;" for every thing grew and thrived, and they had plenty 
within and without; they had more tame cattle than the others, 
more utensils and necefsaries witiiin doors, and yet more pleasure 
and diversion too. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



304 ADVENTURES OF 

It b trae, the wives of the three were very handy and cleanly 
within doors, and having learned the English ways of dressing 
and cooking from one of the other Englishmen, who, as I said, 
was a cook's mate on board the ship, they dressed their husbands' 
victuals very nicely and well; whereas the oUiers could not be 
brought to understand it; but then the husband, who, as I say, 
had been cook's mate, did it himself. But as for the husbands of 
the three wives, they loitered about, fetched turtles' eggs, and 
caught fish and birds ; in a word, any thing but labour, and they 
fared accordingly. The diligent lived well and comfortably ; ai^ 
the sloHiful lived hatd and beggarly; and so, I believe, generafiy 
speaking, it is all over the world. 

But I now cmne to a scene different from all that had happened 
before, either to them or to me ; and the original of th& story was 
this : Early one morning, there came on shore five or six canoes 
of Indians or savages, call them which you please, and there is no 
room to doubt they came upon the old errand of feeding upon 
their slaves ; but that part was now so familiar to the Spaniards, 
and to our men too, tiiat they did not concern thnaselves about 
it, as I did : but having been made sensible, by tiieir experienoey 
that their only business was to lie concealed, and that, if they were 
not seen by any of the savages, they would go off again quietly, 
when tiieir business was done, havings as yet, not the least no- 
tion of their being any inhabitants in the island ; I say, having 
been mad^ sensible of this, they had nothing to do but give notice 
to all the three plantations to keep wi^in doGTBy and not to show 
themselves, only placing a scout in a proper place, to give notice 
when the boats went to sea again. 

This was, without doubt, veiy r^ht ; but a disaster spoiled aH 
these measures, and made it known among the savages that iheie 
were inhabitants there ; which was, in the end, the desolation of 
almost the whole colony. After the canoes wi^ the savages 
were gone off, the Spaniards peeped abroad again ; and s(Hne of 
them had the curiosity to go to the place where they had been, to 
see what they had been dwng. Here, to their great surprise, they 
found three savages left behind, and lying fast adeep upon th^ 
ground. It was supposed they had either been so gorged wth 
their inhuman feast, that, like beasts, they were fallen asleep, and 
would not stir when the others went, or they had wandered into 
the woods, and did not come back in time to be taken in. 

The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and per- 
fectly at a loss what to do. The Spanish governor, as it haip- 
pened, was with them, and his advice was asked, but he professed 
he knew not what to do. As for slaves, they had enough already ; 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CKVSOE. 305 

and as ta kUling them, they were ncme of them inclined to that : 
the Spanish governor told me, they could not think of shedding 
innocent hlood: for as to them, the poor creatures had done 
tiiem no wrong, invaded none of their property, and they thought 
they had no just quarrel against them, to take away their lives. 
And here I must, in justice to these Spaniards, obserre, that let 
the accounts of Spanish cruelty in Mexico and Peru be what they 
will, I never met with seventeen men of any nation whatsoever, 
in any foreign country, who were so universally modest, tem- 
perate, virtuous, so very good humoured, and so courteous, as 
these Spaniards ; and as to cruelty, they had nothing of it in their 
very nature : no inhumanity, no barbarity, no outrageous pas- 
sions ; and .yet all of them men of great courage and spirit. Their 
temper and calmness had appeared in their bearing ihe insuffer- 
able usage of tiie three Englishmen ; and their justice and human- 
ity appeared now in the case of the savages, as above. After some 
consultation, tiiey resolved upon this ; that they would lie still a 
while longer, till, if possible, these three men might be gone. But 
then the governor Spaniard recollected, that the three savages had 
no boat ; and if they were left to rove about the island, they would 
certainly discover that there were inhabitants in it i and so they 
should be undone that way. Upon this they went baek again, and 
there lay the fellows fast asleep still, and so ihej resolved to waken 
them, and take them prisoners ; and tiiey did so. The poor fellows 
were strangdy lightened when they were seized upon and bound ; 
and afraid, like the women, that they should be murdered and eaten : 
for it seems those people think all the world does as they do, eating 
men's flesh; but they were soon made easy as to that, and away 
they carried them. 

It was very happy for them that they did not carry them home 
to their castle, I mean to my palace under the hill ; but they car- 
ried them first to ^e bower, where was the chief of their country 
work, such as the keeping the goats, the planting the com, &c. ; 
and afterwards they carried them to the habitations of the two 
Englishmen. 

Here they were set to work, though it was not much they had for 
them to do ; and whether it was by negligence in guarding them, or 
that they thought the fellows could not mend themselves, I know not, 
but one of them ran away, and taking to the woods, they could never 
hear of him any more. 

They had good reason to believe he got home again soon after, 
in some other boats or canoes of savages who came on shore three 
or four weeks afterwards ; and who, carrying on their revels as 
usual, went off in two days' time. This tiiought terrified them 

85* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



306 ADTSNTURB8 OF 

exceedingly ; for they coneladed, asd that not without good canse hk- 
deed, that if this feUow eame home eafe among his comrades, he 
would certainly give them an accoont that there were people in the 
island, and also how few and weak they were ; for this sarage, as 
I observed before, had never been told, and it was very happy he 
had net, how many there were, or where they lived ; nor had he 
ever seen or heard the fire <tf any of their guns, much less had 
they shown him any of their otiier retired places ; such as the cave 
ia the valley, or the new retreat which the two Englishmen had 
made, and the like« 

The first testimony they had that this feUow had given intelli- 
gence of them was, that about two months after this, six canoes 
of savages, with about seven, eight, or ten men in a canoe, came 
rowing along the north aide of the island, where they never used 
to come before, and landed about an hour after sunrise, at a 
convenient plac«, about a mile firom the habitation of the two 
Englishmen, where this escaped man had been kept As tiie 
Spaniard governor said, had they been aU there, the damage 
would not have been so much, for not a man of them would have 
escaped: but the case differed now very much, for two men to 
fifty was too much odds. The two men had the happiness to 
discover them about a league off, so that it was above an hour 
before they landed ; and as they landed a mile from their huts, it 
was some time before they could come at them. Now, having 
great reason to believe that they were betrayed, the first thing they 
did was to bind the two slaves i^diich were left, and cause two of 
the three men whom tiiey brought with the women (who, it seems, 
proved very faithfiil to them) to lead them with their two wives, and 
whatever they could carry away with them, to their retired places 
in the woods, which I have spok^i of above, and there to bind the 
two fellows hand and foot, till they heard fiirther. 

In the next place, seeing the savages were all c<Hne on shore, and 
that they had bent their course directly that way, thfy opened the 
fences where the milch goats were kept, and drove them dM. out; 
leaving their goats to straggle in the woods, whither they pleased, 
that the savages might think they were all bred wild ; but the rogue 
who came with them was too cunning for that, and gave them an 
account of it all, for they went directly to the place. 

When the two poor frightened men had secured their wives and 
goods, they sent tiie other slave they had of the three who came 
with the women, and who was at their ^ace by accident, away 
to the Spaniards with all speed, to give them the alarm, and de- 
sire speedy help ; and, in the mean time, they took their arms, and 
what ammunition they had, and retresOed towards the place in 



Digitized 



by Google 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 307 

thA wood where their wives were sent ; keeping at a distance, yet 
sp that they might see, if possiUe, which way the sa^iages took. 

They had not gone far, but that from a rising ground they could 
see the little army of their enemies come on directly to their habi- 
tation, and, in a moment more, could see all their huts^ and house- 
hold stuff fiaming up tc^tiier, to their great grief and mortification : 
for they had a very great loss, to them hnretrievaUe, at least for 
some time. They kept their station for a while, till they found the 
savages, like wild beasts, epread themselyes aQ oyer tiie place, rum- 
maging eyery way and every place they could think <^, in search of 
I»rey ; and m particular for the pe<^, (tf whom, now, it plainly ap- . 
peared they had intelligence, 

, The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves not secure 
where they stood, because it was likely some of the wild people 
might come that way, and they might come too many together, 
t^ouf^t it proper to make aiuither retreat about half a n^e &rther : 
believing, as it afterwards liaj^ned, that the &xther they BtroUed 
the fewer woidd bo together. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



. SECTION XXXVI. 

tITlMUL SAVAOBS KILLED; THK RBMAINDER LBAVB THS IWLAND.— A 
FLEET OF THEM AFTERWARDS ARRIVE. — A GENERAL BATTLE. — THE 
SATAGBS ARE OVERCOME, AND TRANQUILLITY RESTORED. 

Thkir next halt was at the entrance mto a veiy l^ick grown part 
of the woods, and where an old trunk of a tree stood, which was 
hollow and vastly large ; and in this tree they hoth took their stand- 
ing, resolving to see there what might offer. They had not stood 
there long, before two of the savages appeared running directly that 
way, as if they already had notice where they stood, and were com- 
ing up to attack them ; and a little way farther they espied three 
more coming after them, and five more beyond them, all comiiig the 
same way : besides which, they saw seven or eight more at a dis- 
tance, running anotiier way ; for, in a word, they ran every way, 
like sportsmen beating for their game. 

The poor men were now in great perplexity whether they should 
stand and keep their posture, or fly ; but, after a very short debate 
with themselves, they considered, that if the savages ranged the 
country thus before help came, they might perhaps find out their 
retreat in the woods, and tiien all would be lost ; so they resolved 
to stand them there ; and if they were too many to deal with, then 
they would get up to the top of the tree, from whence they doubted 
not to defend themselves, fire excepted, as long as their anmmnition 
lasted, though all the savages that were landed, which was near fifty, 
were to attack them. 

Having resolved upon this, they next considered whether they 
should fire at the first two, or wait for the three, and so take the 
middle party, by which the two and the five that fcdlowed would 
be separated : at length they resolved to let the first two pass by, 



Digitized 



by Google 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 309 

tmless they should spy them in the tree, and cjDtne to attack them. 
The first two savages confirmed them also in this regulation, by 
turning a little from them towards another part of the wood ; but 
the three, and the five a^r them, came forward directly to the 
t!ree, as if they had known the Englishmen were there. Seeing 
them come so straight toward them, they rescdved to take them 
in a line as they came ; and as tiaey r^olved to fijre bnt one at a 
time, perhaps tiie first shot might hit ^m all three: for which 
purpose, the man who was to fire put three or four small bullets 
into his piece; and having a fair loophole, as it were, from a 
broken h(de in the tree, he took a sure aim, without being seen, 
waiting tilLthey were within a^ut thirty yards of the tree, so that 
he could not miss. 

Wbik they wen thus waitaog, and the savages came on, they 
phuiily saw that one of the three w$b the runaway savage that had 
escaped from them ; and l^ey both knew him distinctly, taiA re- 
solved tiiat, if posBiUe, he should not escape, though they ^lould 
both fire; so the other stood rea^ inth his piece, that if he did 
sot dr^ at &e first shot, he shonld be sure to have a second. But 
the first was too good a inarkflman to miss hk aim; for as the 
savages kq>t near one another, a little bdiind, in a line, he fired, 
and hit two of them directly: the fotmsoBt was killed outri^t, 
being shot in the head; the seccmd, which was the runaway 
Indian, was shot throng^ t^e body, and fell, but was not quite 
dead ; and ihe third had a little soratdi on the should^, perhaps 
by the same baU that went through Hie body of the second; and 
being dreadfblly frightmed, thon^ not so mnch hurt, sat down 
npcm the groni]^ sereamo^ and yelling In a hideons maEmer. 

The five Ihat were behind, more frightened with the noise than 
sensible of ihe danger, stood still at first ; for ^e woods made the 
sound a thousand times bigger than it really was, the echoes 
rattling from one side to another, and the fowls rising from all 
parts, screaming, and every sort making a different noise, accord- 
ing to their kind ; just as it was when I fired the first gun that 
perhaps was ever shot off* in the island. 

However, idl being silent again, and they not knowing what 
the matter was, came on unconcerned, titl they came to the place 
where their companions lay, in a condition miserable enough; 
and here the poor ignorant creatures, not sensible that they were 
within reach of the same mischief, stood all of a huddle over the 
wounded man, talking, and, as may be supposed, inquiring of 
him how he came to be hurt ; and who, it is very rational to be- 
lieve, told them, that a flash of fire first, and immediately after 
that thunder from their gods, had killed those two and wounded 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



310 ADTENTUREf Oi 

hiin ; tiiis, I aay, is rational ; for that nothing is more certain tiiaii 
that, as they saw no man near them, so they had never heard a 
gnn in all their lives, nor so much as heard of a gun ; i^iUier 
knew they any thing of killing and wounding at a distance with 
fire and hullets : if they had, one might reasonably believe they 
would not have stood so unconcerned in viewing the fate of their 
follows, without some apprehension of their own. 

Our two men, though,^Ls they confessed to me, it grieved them 
to be oUiged to kill so many poor creatures, who, at the same 
time, had no notion of their danger ; yet, having them all thus in 
their power, and the first having loaded his piece again, resdved 
to let fly both together among them : and suigling out, by agree- 
ment, which to aim at, they shot together, and killed, or very mueh 
wounded, four of them ; the fiflh, frightened even to death, Hiough 
not hurt, fell with the rest ; so that our men seeing them all fiill 
together, thought they had killed them all. 

The belief that the savages were all killed made our two men 
come boldly out from the tree before they had charged their guns, 
which was a wrong step ; and they were un^r some surprise when 
they came to the place, and found no less than four of l^em alive, 
and df them two very little hurt, and one not at all : this obliged 
them to fall upon them with the stocks of their mu^ets ; and first 
they made sure of the runaway savage, that had been the causiB of 
all the mischief, and of ano^er that was hurt in the knee, and put 
them out of their pain : then the man that was hurt not at all came 
and kneeled down to them, -with his two hands held up, and made 
piteous moans to Ihem, by gesturea and signs, for his life, but could 
not say one wcscd to them ttett they couM understand. However, 
they made signs to him to sit down at the foot of a ^ree hard by ; 
and one of the Enghehmen, with a piece of rope twined, which 
he had by great chance in his pocket, tied his two hands behind 
him, and there they left him: and with what speed they could 
made after the other two, which were gone before, fearing they, 
or any more of them, should find the way to their covered {dace 
in the woods, where their wives, and the few goods they had left, 
lay. They came once in sight <rf the two men, but it was at a 
great distance ; however, they had the satisfaction to see them ' 
cross over a valley towards the sea, quite the contrary way from 
that which led to their retreat, which tiiey were afraid of; and 
being satisfied with that, they went back to the tree where they left 
their prisoner, who, as they supposed, was delivered by his com- 
rades, for he was gone, and the two pieces of rope-yam, with which 
they had bound him, lay just at the foot of the tree. 

They were now in as great concern as before, not knowing 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 311 

what course to take, or how near the enemy might be, or in 
what numbers ; so they resolved to go away to the place where 
their wives were, to see if all was well there, and to make them 
easy, who were in frighf enough to be sure ; for though the sav- 
ages were their own countryfolk, yet they were most terribly afraid 
of them, aild perhaps the more for the knowledge they had of 
them. 

When they came there, they found the savages had been in the 
wood, and very near that place, but had not found it : for it was 
indeed inaccessible, by the trees standing so thick, as before, un- 
less the persons seeking it had been directed by those that knew 
it, which iheae did not : they found, therefore, every thing very 
safe, only the women in a terrible fright. While they were here, 
they had the comfort to have seven of the Spaniards come to their 
assistance ; the other ten, with their servants, and old Friday, I 
mean Friday's &ther, were gone in a body to defend their bower, 
and the com and cattle that was kept there, in case the savages 
fidiould have rowed over to that side oi the country ; but they did 
not spread so far. With the seven ^psu^iards came one of the 
three savages, who, as I said, were their prisoners formerly ; and 
with them also came the savage whom the Englii^men had left 
bound hand and foot at the tree ; for it seems they came that way, 
saw the slaughter of the seven men, smd unbound the eighth, and 
brought him along wilii them ; where, however, they were obliged 
to bind him again, as they had the two others who were left when 
the third ran away. 

The prisoners now began to be a burthen to them ; and they 
^ere so afraid of their escaping, that they were once resolving to 
kill them all, believing they were under an al)solute necessity to do 
so, for their own preservation. However, the Spaniard governor 
would not consent to it ; but ordered, for the present, that t^ey should 
be sent out of the way, to my old cave in the valley, and be kept 
there, with two Spaniards to* guard them ; and give them food for 
their subsistence, which was done ; and they .were boimd there hand 
and foot for that night. 

When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were so en- 
couraged, that they could not satisfy themselves to stay any longer 
there ; but taking five of the Spaniards and themsdves, with four 
mu^ets and a {Hstol am<Hig tiiem, and two stout quarter-staves, 
away they went in quest of the savages. And first they came to 
the tree where the men lay that had been killed ; but it was easy 
to see that some more of the savages had been there, for they had 
attempted to carry their dead men away, and had dragged two of 
them a good way, but had given it over. From thence they ad- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



312 ADVENTURES OP 

vancSft to the first rising ground, where they had stood and seen 
their camp destroyed, and where they had the mortification still to 
see some of the smoke : but neither could they here see any of the 
savages. They then resolved, though with all possible caution, to 
go forward, towards their ruined plantation ; but a little before they 
came thither, coming in sight of the seashore, they saw plainly the 
savages all embarked again in their canoes, in order to be gone. 
They seemed sorry, at first, that there was no way to come at them, 
to give them a parting blow ; but, upon the whole, they were very 
well satisfied to be rid of tiiem. 

The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, und all their im- 
provements destroyed, the rest ail agreed to come and help them 
to rebuild, and to assist them with needful supplies. Their three 
countrymen, who were not yet noted for having the least inclina- 
tion to do any good, yet as soon as they heard of it (for they living 
remote eastward, knew nothing of the matter till all was over), 
came and offered thebf help and assistance, and did, very friendly, 
work for several days, to restore their habitation, and malce neces- 
saries for them. And thus, in a little time, they were set upon &eir 
legs again. 

About two days afler this, they had the forther satisfaction of 
seeing three of the savages* canoes come driving on shore, and at 
some distance from them, two drowned men : by which they had 
reason to believe that they had met with a storm at sea, which had 
overset some o£ them ; for it had Mown v^ry hard the night after 
they went oflT. 

However, as some might miscarry^ so, on the other hand, enough 
c . 'he ^ escaped to inform the rest, as well oi whau they had done 
as oi what had happened to them, and to whet them on to another 
enterprise of the same nature ; which they, it seems, resolved to 
attempt, with sufficient force to carry all before them : for except 
what the first man had told them of inhabitants, they could say little 
of it of their own knowledge, for they never saw one man : and the 
fellow being killed that had afilrmed it, they had no other witness to 
confirm it to them. 

It was five or six months after this before they heard any more 
of the savages, in which time our men were in hopes they had 
either forgot their former bad luck, or given over hopes of bet- 
ter ; when, on a sudden, they were invaded with a most formidable 
fleet of no less than eight-and-twenty canoes, full of savages, 
armed with bows and arrows, great clubs, wooden swords, and 
suchlike engines of war; and they brought such numbers with 
them, that, in short, it put all our people into the utmost constema* 
tion. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRVSOE. 313 

As they came on Bht^e in the evening, and at ^e eas^nmost 
side of the kiand, oar men had that night to conmlt and consider 
wteit to do ; and, in Ike first place, knowing that their being entirely 
.co^ealed was ^leir oidy safety before) and would be moch more so 
now, while the number of their enemies was so greats ^y there- 
fore resolved, first of all, to take down ti)e huts which were buUt 
for the two Englishmen, and drire away tl^ir goats to ihe old cave ; 
because they mi|^osed the savages wopld go dkeetly thither, as soon 
as it wa» day, to -^y the old game over again, though they did not 
now land within two leagues of it. In the next place^ they drove 
away all the flo(^ of goats they 1^ at the iM bower, as I called 
it, which belonged to th« Spaniards ; and, in short, lefl as little 
appearance of inhabitants anywhere as was possible : and the next 
mornuig eaiiy they posted themselves, with all their force, at the 
plantation of tiie two men, to wait for their coming. As they guess- 
ed, so it happened : these new invaders, leaving their canoes at 
the east end of ^e i^and, ciuae ranging along #ie shore, directly 
towards the place, to tiie number of two hundred and fifty, as. near 
as our men could judge. Our army was but small, mdeed ; but 
that which was worse, they had not arms for all their number 
neither. The whole account, it se^ns, stood thns : first, as to men, 
iseventeen Spaniards, five Englislanen, old Friday, or Friday's fa- 
ther, the three slaves taken with the wcMneq, who proved very 
faithful, and three o&er slaves, ^o lived with the Spaniards. 
To arm these they had eleven musketsv ^ve ^stols, three fowhng- 
pieces, five muskete or jfowling-pieces which were taken by me from 
the nnitinous seamen whom I reduced, two swonis, and three did 
halberds. 

To their slaves they did not give ei^r rnwdiet or fusee, but they 
had every one a halberd, or a long staff, like a quarter>*staff, with fi 
great spOce of iron ihstened into each end c^ it, and by his side a 
hatchet; also, every one oi our men had a Inlehet. Two of the 
women could not be j^vaMed upon but they would come into the 
fight ; and tiiey had bows and arrows, whi^ ^le Spaniards had 
taken honi the savages when ^e first action hi^pened, which I 
have spoken of, where the Indiana fought with one ano^r ; and 
^tte women had hatcheto too. 

The Spaniard govenwr whom I described so often ccmmianded 
the whole ; and WiH Aticins, who^ *ough a dreadful fellow for 
wickedness, was a most ^ring, bold fbUow, comnianded. under him. 
The savages came forward litos Uons ; and our men, which was the 
worst of their fate, had no advantage m their situation : oidy that 
Will Atkins, who now proved a most useful fdlow, with six men, 
was planted jusi behind a small titicket <^ bushes, as an advanced 

27 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



314 ABY£STURS« Of 

gnaid, with orders to kl the tot of them pv» by, aad then jSre into 
the middle of them, end as eoon as he ha4 ired« to inak^ hia re- 
treat as Biml^ as he c<Kiki round a pari of the woodi and so come 
k be^nd the Spaniards, where they stood, having a thicket of tree^ 
before them. 

When the savages came on, they ran straggling about every way 
in he^>s, out of all manner of order, and Will Atkins let about fi% 
of them pass by ; then seeing the rest come in a very &ick throngs 
he orders three of his men to fire, having loaded Uieir muskets 
with six or seven ballets a piece, aboot as big as large pistc^- 
bnllels. How many they killed or wounded they knew not, but 
the consternation and sorprise was inexpressible among the sav- 
ages; they were frightened to the last degree to hear such a 
dreadfiil noise, and see their men killed, and o&ers hurt| htkt see 
nobody that did it ; when, in the middle of ^eir fright. Will Aikkm 
and tns other three let fly again ameog the thickest of them; and 
in less than a mmute, the first tiiree, being loaded b§^^ gave ^em 
a third vdley. 

Had Will Addas and his men retired immediately as soon as they 
had fired, as they were ordered to do, or had the rest of ^le body 
been at hand to have poured in their shot coi^dimaUy, the savages 
had been efiectuaUy routed ; £or tlw terror that was among them 
came pnnc^pally l&om this, vi£. : that they were killed l^ Hm gods 
with thunder and lightning, and could see nobody 1^a|i hurt them $ 
but Will Atkins, staying to load again, discovered the cheat ; some 
of the savages, who were at a distance i^[^Fing then^ came upon 
them behind ; and ^on^ Atkins and his men fired at them also two 
or three times, and killed above twenty, retiring as fast as they 
could, yet they wounded Atkins hjfnself, and killed one of his fellow 
Englishmen with their arrows, as they did afterward one Spaniard 
and one of the Indian slaves who pame with the W(»nen, This 
slave was a moiri> gaSao^ feOow^iusd fought most dfsperately, killing 
five of them with his own handi having no weapon but <slq of Uie 
armed staves ^nd a hatchet. 

Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and two other 
men kilted, retreated to a riung ground in the wood ; and the Span- 
iards, after firing three volleys upon tl^m, i^etreated also; fca their 
number was so great, and they were so de^ierate, that though i^K>ve 
fifty of them were killed, and mere than as many wounded, y^ they 
came on in the i»eik of our men, feartess of danger, and shot their 
arrows Hke a dood ; and it was observed that their wounded men, 
who were not <piite disabled, were made outrageous by ^ir wounds, 
snd fought like madmen. 

When our men ]»te:eated, thisy left the Sftumsii and ik» Sitg* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



KOBISiON CBV0OE. 315 

BitoHtt tbtti ireio laJMt hMsti them ; tmd ik0 s»tage% vAufti 
they i^sas up (o tbem» Idlleii tfaem oTer agatii is « wsetebed msB- 
ner, bfeaking Uteb arms, legs, aad heads with thesr ^^akm and 
woedea swords, }jk0 trae eeayages; bat finda^ oar bsi^ wei« 
^Q$e, they did nxA se^ti to parsae tfaem, bat df«w thettiseiTes w^ 
in a ring, which is, it se^ns, l^ir custom, 9.ud i^iouted twiee m 
token of l^ii^ victory ; a^r which they had ^e oaoitifieattofi to 
See several of tbetr wounded men fall, (fying with 1^ mere loss of 
yood. 

The Bpaniftifd goventc^ having drawn his little body ctp toge^hef 
upon 4 ri^ng ground, Atkins, though he was wounded, woidd 
have had ttiem. madreh and chaise again all together at once : but 
the Spaniard replied, Senhor AUdns, you see how ^eir womided 
men fight : let ^m alone till morning; all tiie woo&dad men will 
be st^«nd sore wii^ their Wounds, aod &int with ^e loss of blood, 
tLtA m we shaQ have ^le fewer to engage. This klviee was 
good ; but Wffl A^dns teplied menily. That ia true, seo^o^, and 
so i^aU I too ; and ^lat is the «ea«on I would go on while I am 
warm. Well, Senhor Atkins, says the l^aniard, you hate be^ 
baved gallan%^, and doi^ your part; we wiH light fer you if yaa 
emmet ecme one ; but I ^tink it best to stay till morning : so th^y 
waited. 

But as i% was a clear oroonliglit night, and ^ey fiimid the sat- 
ag^ in great (Msorder abcut their dead and woimded men, and « 
g|i^ i^eise mid hurry among tiiem where they lay, they after- 
ward reserved to fiiU upon them in the mg^ Qc^cialfy if they 
coidd come to give them but one volley before they were dis- 
covered, whieh they had a hit opfortunity to do^ lor one of the 
BngllBlmien, in whose quarter it was wtere the fight begacn, led 
&em round between the woods and the seaside westwi»^, and 
^ea turning short south, ^ey eame se near where the thickeeft 
of ^lem lay, tha^ before Hatff were s^n or heard, eagh^ of them 
fired kk amcmg them, and did dreadlul execu^n upon them; in 
half a mmute more eight others &ed after them^ pomring is 
th^ small shot in: such a cptantity ^t abtmdanee' were killed 
aiid wounded ; and aM ^is while l^ey were no6 abk( to see who'hurt 
them or which way to fly. 

The Spaniards charged again vMi H^ utmost e:xpe£tion, and 
then divided themselves in three bodies, and resolved to M in 
itnohg them all together. They had ia each body eight perscnss : 
that is to say, twenty-two and the two women, who, by the way, 
§ou^ de^)eTately. They divided the fire-arms equally in each 
paurty, and so the halberds and staves. They would have had 
the women kept back, but they sa^ they were resolved to die 

03 



Digitized 



by Google 



316 ADTSNTirSEfl Ot 

with thdr ImBbands. Harii^ thus fonned their Iktio uxmf^ ^bef 
marched oat from among the toeea, and came np to &e te^Ji of 
the enemy, ehontiag and hdlooing as kmd as they could ; the aay- 
agea itood aH together, bat were m the utmost confoBum, hearmg 
the ttoiae of our men shooting frmn three quartos together : they 
wonld have fought if th^ had ueea us ; for as soon as we caoie 
■ear eaough to be seem some arrows were shot, and poor old Friday 
was wounded, though not dangeromly ; but our men gaye tiiem no 
time, but, running up to them, fired among them three ways, a^d 
Hmtk Mi in with the butt^nds of their mudcetot ^eir swords, armed 
stayes, and hatehets, and laid about them so well, that, in a word, 
they set np a dismal screammg and howling, flying to save tiieir Ures 
whkh way seerer they coidd. 

Our men w^e tired with the executioiit and killed or mortally 
wounded in the two fights about one hundred and ei^ty of them; 
the rest, being frightened out of tiieir wits> aeonred throi^ the 
woods and oyer the hiUs with wXL the speed fear apd nimMe feel 
could hdp them to ; and as we did not troute ourselres mueb to 
pursue th^ad, they got aU together to ite seaMde where they 
kmded, and where their canoes lay. But their disaster wzs not 
at an end jret ; for it faiew a , terrible storm of wind that erening 
from the sea, so that it was impossible for them to go off ; nay, the 
stcmn contimting all nig^ when the tide came i^ liieir canoes 
were most of them driren by the surge of the sea ao^ lugh upo^ 
the [^ore, ihaX it required infinite tofl to get them ofif; and some 
of them were eyen dashed to pieces against the beach w against tme 
another. 

Our men, though glad of their yictory, yet g^ jittle rost ihak 
ni§^t ; but, having refreshed thonsdyes as we£ as they eoidd) . 
they rescdyed to march to that part of tiie island wtore the 
sayages were fied, and see wJM posture they were in. Tina 
necessarily led them oyer tiie place where the fight had be«n, and 
where they Ibmid seyeral of the poot creatures not quite dead,jand 
yet past recoyering Ike; a mght disagreeal^ enou^ to ^eneroua 
minds ; £&r a ^ndy great man, though obliged by the law of battie 
to destroy his enemy, takes no delight in his misery. Jloweyery 
there was no need to give any orders in titis case ; ibr their own 
sayages, who were ti^ir servants, det^tched these |)Oor creates 
with Iheir hatchets. ■ 

At length they bame in view of the ^ace where the mora 
piserable remains of the savages' army lay, where there ap- 
peared about a hundred still : their posture was generally sitting 
upon tlie ground, with their ku^cs \\y towa.i^' i their moutli, and 



Digitized by VjOOQLC ' 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 317 

the head put between &e two hands, leaning down upon the 
knees. 

When oar men came whhm two mudEei-diots of them, tbe 
Spaniard governor ordered two muskets to be fired, without hall, 
to alarm them: this he did, that by then: coontenance he might 
know what to expect, viz., Aether they were still in heart to 
fight, or were so heartily beaten as to be dispirited and discour- 
aged, and so he might manage accordingly. This stratagem 
took; for as soon as ^ sarages heard the first gun and saw 
&e flash of the second, they stsffted up upon titeir feet in the 
greatest consternation imaghiable; and as our men advanced 
swiftly towards them, they all ran screaming and yelling away, 
with a kind of howling noise, which our men did not understand, 
and had never heard before ; and ^ms they ran up the h^ into the 
country. 

At first our men had Banch rather l^e weather had been eahn, 
and they hsul all gone away to sea ; but they did not then consider 
that this might probably have been the occasion of their coming 
again in etach multitudes as not to be resisted, or at least to come so 
many and so oftffli as would quite desolate the idand and starve 
them. Win Atkins, ^refore, who, notwitiistanding his wound, 
kept always with th^oa, proved the hetst counsellor in this case : his 
advice was to take the advantage that ofifSored, and clap in between 
^m and their boats, and so derive them cMf the capacity of ever 
returning any more to {dague the island. 

They consulted long about this; and some were against it, fi)r fear 
of making the wretches fly to ^le woods and hve there desperate, 
and so they should have ^em to hnnt l^e vdld beasts, be afintid to 
stir out about their business, and have their phmtstmn contmually 
rifled, all their tame goats destroyed, and, in short, be reduced to a 
life of continual distress. 

Will Atkins told them they had bettOT have to do with a hun- 
dred men than with a hundred nations : that as they must destroy 
their boats, so they must destroy the men, or be aU of them de- 
stroyed themselves. In a word, lie showed them the necessity of 
it so plainly, that they all came into it: so they went to work im- 
mediately with the bcAts, and, getting smne dry wood together from 
a dead tree, they tried to set some of them on fire ; but they were 
so wet that they woidd not bum; however, the fire so burnt the 
upper part that it soon made them unfit for swimming in the sea 
as boats. When the Indians saw what they were about, some of 
them came running out of 1^ woods, and, coming as near as they 
could to our men, kneded down and cried, " Oa, Oa, Waramokoa,'* 
and some other words of tibair language which none of the others 

27» 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



318 APTENTUR^ OF 

understood any ^ing of; bat as they made pitifiil gestures and 
strange noises, it was easy to understand they begged to hare 
their boats spared, and that they would be gone, and never come 
ibote again. But our men were now satisfied that they had no 
way to preserve themseires, or to save their colMiy, but effectu- 
ally to prevent any of these pe<^e from ever godng home again: 
depending upon thi^ that if even so mueh 83 one of them got 
b«ek into their country to tell the ^ory, the colony was undone ; 
«o that, letting them know that they should not hanre any mercy, 
tiiey ML to wotk with their canoes, and destroyed them every one 
that the stoim had ncrt destroyed befose ; at the sight pi which thi^ 
savages raised a hidMos ery in the woods, which onr people heard 
I^ain enough, after ^Hbdch they ran about the island like distracted 
men ; so that, in a wwd, our men did not really Ipiow at£rst what 
to do with them. Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, 
consider, that "wbj^ they made those jpeoj^ tlius desperate, they 
oui^ to have kept a good guard at the same time u]^ ^heir plant- 
ations ; for though it is true, l^y had driven away ihfior cattle, aiul 
the IndisAs did not find oc^ their mam vetrett, I mean my old ca^ 
tie at the hMl, nor the cave m the valley, yet they found my planta- 
tion at ihe bower, and pill^ it all to pieees, and aU the fences and 
plantiDg about it; trod aU the com under fb<^ tore up the vines 
and grapes, being just ^len ahnost ripe, spd did our men an in- 
estimabie damage, though to ttonselves not one ^thing's woi^ of 
service. 

Though our men were aUe to fight Ih^^ 9P» ^ occas^oms, yet 
they w^e in no condition to pursue them, or hunt them up and 
down ; for as they wepe too nimble of fi)ot fi^r mi men wh^ they 
fcwmd them ungie, so our mi^ durst pot go id>rQad sin^, &ff fear 
of being smrrounded with th^ir numbers. The best was, they had 
no weapons ; for thou^ they had bows, they had no arrows left, 
nor any materials to mii^e any ; nor had th^ any edgetool or weap- 
on among thmn. 

The extremity and distress ^y were reduced to was ^eat, 
and indeed depkfiralde ; hot, at the same time, our men were also 
brou^t to very bad eireumatances by them; &r, thoi^h their re- 
treats were preserved, yet their ppovisioa was destroyed, and 
their harvest iq^oiled; lusd what to do, or which way to turn 
themsdves, they knew not. The only refuge they had now w^ 
the stock of eattiie they had in the valley by the cave, and some 
litde c^m which ^rew there, and the plantation of ^ three Eng- 
lii^men, WiU Atkins aid his ccsorades, who were now reduced 
to two, one of than being killed by an arrow, which stniK^k him 
en the ttde of the head, ^ist under the tem^ea, so that he never 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3l\^ 

spoke more : and it was very remarkaUe that this was the same 
barbarous fellow that cut the poor savage slave with his hatchet, 
and who afterward intended to have mjirdered the Spaniards. 

I looked upon their case to have been worse at this time than 
mine was at any time alter I first discovered the grains of barley 
and rice, and got into tiie moanner of planting and raising my com 
and my tame catde ; for now they haA, as I may say, a hundred 
wolves upon the island, which would devour every thii^ they could 
come at, yet could be hardly come at themselves. 

When they saw what their circumstances were, the first thing 
they concluded was that they would, if possible, <kive them up 
to the fkrther part of the island, southwest, that if any more sav- 
ages came on shore they might not find one another: then timt 
they would daily hunt and harass them, and kill as many as they 
could come at, tiU they had reduced their number ; and if they 
could at last tame them and bring them to any liiing, ^ey would 
give them com, and teach tliem how to plant, and Mve upon their 
daily labour. 

In order to this, they so fdlowed tiiem, and so terrified them 
with their guns, that in a few days, if any of them fired a gun at 
an Indian, if he did not hit him, yet he would faU down for fear; 
and so dreadfully frightened t^ey were, that they kept out of sight 
^rther and farther, till at last, our men fi>Uowiag them and almost 
every day killing or wounding some of them, l^ey kept up in the 
woods or hollow places so much, that it reduced them to the ut- 
most misery for want of food : and many were afterward found 
dead in the woods, without any hurt, absolutely starved to dea^. 

When our men found this, it made tiieir heiE^rts relent, and pity 
moved them, especially the Spaniard govemor, who was the most 
gentieman4ike, generous-minded naan ih&t I evier met with in my 
liffe ; and he proposed, if possiWe, to take one of them alive, and 
bring him to understand what they mieant, so &r as to be able to 
act as interpreter, and go among them, and see if tiiey might be 
brought to swne conditions that might be depended upon to save 
their lives and do us no harm. 

It was some while befbre any of ^em could be taken ; but, 
being weak and half starved, one of them was at last surprised 
and made prisoner. He was suDen at first, and would neither 
eat nor drink ; but finding himself kkidly used, and victuals given 
him, and no violence oflfered him, he at last grew tractable, and 
came to himself. They brought old Friday to him, who talked 
often with him, and- told hun how kind the others would be to 
them idl : that they would not only save their lives, but would 
^ve them part of ^e iskuid to live in, provided they would give 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



320 ADVENTURES OF 

8atis&oti(m that they would keep in their own bounds^ and not 
come beyond it to injure or prejudice others ; and that they should 
have com given thentto plant, and make it grow for their bread, 
and some bread given them for their present subsistence : and old 
Friday bade the fellow go and talk with the rest of his country- 
men, and see what they said to it ; assuring ^em that if they did 
not agree immediately Ihey ahould be ail destroyed. 

The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in num- 
ber to about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the first 
offer, and begged to have some food given them; upon which 
twelve Spaniards and two Englislmien, well armed, with three 
Indian slaves and old Friday, marched to the place where they 
were. The three Indian i^ves carried them a large quantity of 
bread, some rice boiled up to cakes and dried in the sun, and 
ihxee live goats ; and they were ordered to go to the side of a 
hill, where they sat down, ate their proviiuons very thankfully, 
and were to most f^thM fellows to their word^ that could be 
thought of; for, except when they came to beg victuals and di- 
rections, they never came out of their bounds : and there, they 
lived when I came to the island, and I went to see them. 

They had taiight them both to {dant com, make bread, breed 
tame goats, and milk them: they wanted nothing but wives, and 
they Boaa would have been a nation. They were confined to a 
neck of land surrounded with high rocks behind them, and lying 
plain towards the sea before them, on the southeast corner of 
the island. They had land Plough, and it was very good and 
frailful ; about a mile and a half broad, and three or four miles 
in lenglh. 

Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such as I made 
for myself, and gave among them twelve hatchets and three or 
four knives; and th^e they lived, the most subjected, innocent 
creatures that ever were heard of. 

After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity with re- 
spect to the savages till I came to revisit them, which w^ about 
four years after ; not bnt that, now and then, some canoes of sav- 
ages came on shore for their triumphal, unnatural feasts ; but as 
they were of several nations, and perha^ had never heard of 
those that came before, or the reason of it, they did not make any 
search or inquiry after their countrymen ; and if they had, it would 
have been very hard to have feund them out. 

Thus, I think, I have given a fuU account of all that happened 
to them till my return, at least, that was worth notice. The Indians 
or savages were wonderftdly civilized by them, and they fre- 
qoentiy went among thmn; but forbid, on pain of de^^th, any one 



Digitized 



by Google 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 821 

of l^e Indians eoming to them, because they would not have 
their setttement betrayed again. One thing was very remarkable, 
Tiz., that they taught the savages to make wickerwork, or bas- 
kets, but they soon outdid their masters ; for they made abun- 
dance of most ingenious things in wickerwork, particularly all sorts 
of baskets, sieves, birdcages, cupboards, &c. ; as also chairs to 
sit on, stools, beds, couches, and abundance of other things ; being 
very ingenious at such work when they were mice put in the 
way of it. 

My coming was a particular relief to these people, because we 
furnished them with knives, scissors, spades, shovels, pickaxes, 
and all things of that kind which they could want. With the help 
of those tools they were so very handy, that they came at last to 
build up their huts or houses very handsomely, raddling or work- 
ing it up like basket-work aU ttke way round ; vrhich was a very 
extraordinary piece of ingenuity, and looked very odd, but was an 
exceeding good fence, as well against heat as against all sorts of 
vermin ; and our men were so taken with it, that they got the wild 
savages to come and do the like for them; so &at*when I came 
4o see the two Englia^unen*s colonies, they lo<^ed, at a distance, 
as if they all lived like bees in a hive. As for Will Atkins, who 
was now become a very industrious, useful, and sober fellow, he 
had made himself such a tent of ba^et-work, as, I believe, was 
never seen; it was one hundred and twenty paces round on the 
outside, as I measured by my steps ; the walls were as close 
worked as a basket, in panels or squares of thirty^two in number, 
and very strong, standing about seven feet high ; in the middle 
was another not above twenty-two paces round, but built stronger, 
being octagon in its form, and in the eight comers stood eight 
very strong posts ; round the top of which he laid strong pieces, 
pinned together with wooden pins, from which he raised a pyra- 
mid for a roof of eight rafters, very handsome, I assure you, and 
joined together very well, though he had no nails, and only a 
few iron spikes, which he made himself too, out of the old iron 
that I had left there ; and, indeed, this fellow showed abundance 
of ingenuity in several things which he had no knowledge of : he 
made him a forge, with a pair of wooden bellows to blow the fire ; 
he made himself charcoal for his work; and he formed out of the 
iron crows a middling good anvil to hammer upon : in this man- 
ner he made many things, but especially hooks, staples and spikes, 
bohs and hinges. But, to return to the house : After he had 
pitched the roof of his innermost tent, he worked it up between 
^e rafters with basket-work, so firm, and liiatched that over again 
•0 ingeniottriy with rice straw, and over that a large leaf of a 

03 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



322 ADVENTURES OF 

tree, which covered the top, that his house was as dry as if it had 
been tiled or slated. ladeed, he owned that the savages had 
made the basket-work for him. The outer circuit was covered as 
a lean-to all round this inner apartment, and long rafters lay fxom 
the thirty-two angles to the top posts of the inner house, being 
about twenty feet distant ; so that there was a ^>ace like a walk 
within the outer wicker wall and without the inner, near twenty 
feet wide. 

The inner place he partitioned off veith the same vnckerwork, 
but much &irer, and divided into six apartments, so that he had six 
rooms on a floor, and out of every one of these there was a door ; 
first into the entry, or coming into the main tent, another door into 
the main tent, and another door into the flf>ace or walk that w^s 
round it ; so that viralk was also divided into six equal parts, which 
served not only for a retreat, but to store up any necessaries which 
the family had occasion for. These six i^iaces not taking up the 
whole circumference, what other apartments the outer circle had 
were thus ordered ; — ^As soon as you were in at the door of the 
outer circle, you had a i^ort passage straight before you to the door 
of the inner house ; but on either side was a wicker partition and a 
door in ^ by which you went first into a large room or storehouse 
twenty feet wide, and about thirty feet long, and through that into 
another not quite so long ; so that in the outer circle were ten hand- 
some rooms, six of which were <mly to be come at through the 
apartments of the inner tent, and served as closete or retiring rooms 
to the respective chambers of the inner circle ; and four large ware* 
houses, or bams, or what you please to call them, which went through 
one another, tvTO on either hand of the passage that led through the 
outer door to the inner tent. 

Such a piece of ba^et-work, I believe, was never seen in the 
\ world, nor a house or tent so neatly contrived, much leas so built 
In this great beehive lived the three families, that is to say. Will 
Atkins and his con^anion ; the third was killed, but his wife re- 
mained, vrith three children, for she was, it seems, big with child 
when he died ; and the other two were not at all backward to give 
the widow her full share of every tiling, I mean as to their com, 
milk, grapes, &c., and when they killed a kid, or found a turtle on 
the shore ; so that they all lived well enough ; though, it was true, 
they were not so industrious as the other two, as has been observed 
already. 

One thing, however, cannot be omitted, viz., that as for religion, 
I do not know that there was any thing of that kind am(«g them ; 
they often, indeed, put one another in mind that there was a God, 
by the very common method of seamen, viz., swearing by his 



Digitized 



by Google 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 323 

name : nor were their poor ignorant sayage wives much better foi 
having been married to Christians, as we must call them ; for, as 
they knew very little of God themselves, so they were utterly inca- 
pable of entering into any discourse with their wives about a God, 
or to 

Tl shad 

made iglish 

prett ity in 

all, ^ ng to 

speal , like 

their years 

old -w i that 

they been 

prett] k the 

cook' ithers 

were all a good sort of well-governed, quiet, laborious women, modest 
and decent, helpful to one another, mighty observant and subject to 
their masters (I cannot call them husbands), and wanted nothing but 
to be well instructed in the Christian religion, and to be legally mar- 
ried; both which were haj^ily brought about afterward by my 
means, or, at least, in consequence of my coming among ihem. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION XXXVII. 

ROBINSON LKARN8 FROM THB SPANIARDS THE PtPFICULTlRS THSY HAD 
TO ENCOUNTEU. — HE FURNISHES THE FEOPI«E WITH TOOLS, ETC. — THB 
FRENCH ECCLESIASTIC. 

Hatinq thufi given an accomit of the eolpny in |;eQeraI, ;md pre^ 
ty much of my runagate English, I must say something of ^e Span- 
iards, who were the main body of the family, and in whose story 
there are some incidents also remarkable enough. 

I had a great many discourses with them about their circum- 
stances when they were among the savages. They told me read- 
ily that they had no instance to give of their £^](llication or ingenu- 
ity in that country ; that they were a poor, miserable, dejected 
handful of people, that if means had been put into their hands, 
yet, they had so abandoned themselves to despair, and so sunk 
under the weight of their misfortune, that they thought of nothing 
but starving. One of them, a grave and sensible man, told me he 
was convinced they were in the wrong ; that it was not the part of 
wise men to give themselves up to their misery, but always to take 
hold of the helps which reason offered, as well for present support 
as for future deliverance : he told me that grief was the most sense- 
less, insignificant passion in the world, for that it regarded only 
things past, which were generally impossible to be recalled or to be 
remedied, but had no views of things to come, and had no share in 
any thmg that looked like deliverance, but rather added to the af- 
fliction than proposed a remedy ; and upon this he repeated a Span- 
ish proverb, which, though I cannot repeat in just the same words 
that he spoke it in, yet I remember I made it into an English prov- 
erb of my own, thus : — 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



In trouble to be troubled. 

Is to iiave your trouble doubled. 

He ran on then in remarks upon all the litde improvements I 
had made in my soiitnde ; my unwearied application, as he eaHed 
it ; and how I had made a conditicm which in its circumstances 
was at first much w^rse than l^eirs^ a thousand times m^e hapf^ 
than Uieirs was, even now when they were aU togeibsr. He iM 
me it was remarkable that Englishmen had a greater presence of 
mind in ^eir distress than any people that ever he met with : that 
their mihappy nation and the Portuguese were the worst men in 
ike world to strug^e wi& mis£[>rtunes ; for that their first step in 
dangers, after the common efibrts were over, was to despair, lie down 
under it, and die, without rousing their thoughts up to proper remo- 
ves for escape. 

I tdd him ^eir ease -and mine differed exceedingly ; &at they 
were cast upon the shore without necessaries, without supply of 
Ibod, Of present sustenance t^ they could provide; that, it was 
true, I had Haa disadvantage and discomfort, tkat I was alone ; 
but then the supplies I had providentiaMy thrown into my hands 
by the unexpected driving of the i^p on i^re, was such a help 
as would have encouraged any creature in the worM to have ap- 
plied himself as I had done. ' Senhor, says the Spaniard, had we 
poor Spaniards been in your case, we should never have got half 
those things out of Ihe ship as you did : nay, ^ys he^ we should 
never have found means to have got a raft to casnj them, or to 
have got the raft on shore without boat or sail : and how much 
less should we have done if any of us had been alone ! Well, I 
desired him to abate his Compliment, and go on wit^ the M^ory of 
their ooiliing on shore, where l^y landed. He told me they un- 
happily landed at a jdace where there were people wi^ut provis- 
ions ; whereas, had tiiey had the common sense to have put off to 
sea again, and gone to anotiier island a litde &ither, they had found 
provisions, though without people ; there being an island that way, 
as they had been tdd, where there were provisions, though no peo- 
l^e ; tiiat is to say, that tiie Spaniards of Trinidad had frequently 
been there, and had ^led the idand with goats and hogs at several 
times, where they h^d bred in such muttitudes, and where turtle and 
seafowls were in sueh plenty, that they could have been in no want 
of fiesh, though they had found no bread ; whereas here they were 
only sustained with a few roots and herbs, which ^ey understood 
not, and which had no sid)6tanc6 in U^m, and which ^ inhabitants 
gave them sparingly enough ; and who eoidd treat t^em no better, 
milesB they would turn cannibals, and est men's flesh, whieh was the 
gMat dainfy of thiir eountry. 

d8 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



326 ADVENTURES OF 

They gave me an account how many ways they strove to cir- 
ilize the savages they were with, and to teach them rational cus- 
toms in the ordinary way of living, but in vain; and how they 
retorted it upon them as unjust, that ^ey, who came there for as- 
sistanee and support, should attempt to set up for BiKttrueters of 
thoM that gave them food ; intimating, it «eems, that nogie should 
aet up for the instructers of others but those who could live without 
them. 

They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were 
driven to ; how sometimes they were many dajrs without any food 
at aU, the island they were vtpaa being mimbited by a sort of sav- 
ages that lived more indolent, and for that reason were less sup- 
I^ied with the necessariea of life Ihan they had reason to believe 
others were in the same part of the world : and yet they found 
that tiieae savages were less ravoiooa and voracious than those 
who had b^tor 8upplie9 of food. Also, they added, th^ could 
not but see with what demoiratrations of wisdom and goodness 
the governing providence of God directs the events of things in 
the world ; which, they said, appealed in their circumstances ; for 
if, pressed by the hardships^iey were under, and the barrenness of 
the country where they were, they had searched albr a better to live 
in, they kui been out of the way of the relief that h$ippened to them 
by my means. 

They then ga^e me an account how the savages whom they 
lived among expected them to ge out wi^ them into Hieir wars ; 
and, it was true, that as they had fire-iurms with them, had they not 
had the disaster to lose their ammunition, they should have been 
servieesd)]e not only to their firiends, Iwt have made themselves 
terrible both to friends and ^:iemies; but beh^ without powder 
and shot, and yet in a condition that they could not in reason^ denj 
to go out witib their landl^ds to \ki» wars, so when ttey eame into 
the field of battle^ i^bsy were in a worse condition than the savages 
themselves; lor they had neither bowB nor ^xrows, nor could 
Ihey use those ihe savages gave them; so they oould do nothing 
but stand stffl and be woimded with arrows, till they came up to 
the teei^ of their en^ny ; and then, mdeed, the three halberds they 
had were of use to them ; and they would o^n (hrive a whole 
little army bef<»e ihem with those halberds, and sharpened sticks 
put into the mimsles of thehr muskets : but that, for all this, tl^ 
were sometimes surroimded wiUi muHitudea, asid in great danger 
from their arrows, tifl at last they foimd the way to make them- 
selves large targets of wood, wiueh they covered with skins of 
wild beasts, whose name they knew not, and these covered them 
from the arrows of the savages : yet, notwithstanding theae^ thej 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROSINSON CRUSOE. 327 

wero sometimea ia great ^xage^^ aad fire of ibi^m wexe oaee knock- 
ed down togeUier with the chibs of the savageS) which was the time 
when one of th^n was taken prisoner ; that is to say t the Spaniard 
whom I had relieved : that at first they thought he had been killed ; 
but when they afterward heard he had been taken ^iaoner, they 
were under the greatest grief imaginable^ and would willingly haire 
all ventured their lives to have rescued him- 

They tdd me that when they were so knocked down the rest of 
the ccmpsmy rescued th^ft> and stood over them %hting till they 
were oome to thems^vea, aU but him whom they thought had been 
dead ; and then th^ made tiieir way with their hidberds and pieces, 
standing close together in a line, through a body of above a thousand 
savages, beating down all that came in their way, got the victory 
over their enemies, but to their great sorrow, because it was wiUi 
the loss of their friend, whom the other party, finding him alive» car- 
ried off with some (rthers, as I gave an account be£»e. 

They described most afiisctionately how they weire surprised with 
joy at ^ return of their inend and ccux^panion in misery, who they 
thought had been devoured by wild beasts of the w<»:st kind, vis., by 
wild men; and yet how more and msae they were surprised widi 
the account he gave them of his errand, and that tiiere was a Chris- 
tian in any place near, muoh more one that was able and had hu- 
manity enough to contribute to their deliverance. 

They described how they were astonished at the sight of the 
zehef I sent them, and at the appeanmce of ioaves of loead, things 
they had not seen since their coming to that miserable place; 
bow often they crossed and Uessed it as bread sent from 
Heaven ; and what a reviving cordial it was to^ tiseir spirits to 
taste it, as also the other things I had sent for their suf^ly ; and, 
after all, they woidd have told me something of the joy Ihey were 
in at the sig^t of a boat and pilots to carry them away to the per- 
son and i^ace from whemso aM these new coadi^i. came ; but it 
was impossible to exj^ess it by words, for their excessive joy 
naturally driving tiiem to mibecoming extravagances, they had no 
way to describe thorn, but by telling me ^y bordered upon lu- 
naey, having no way to give vent to their passions suitable to the 
sense that was upon th^ ; that m some it worked one way, and 
in some anedier ; and that some of ^m, trough a surprise of 
joy, would burst into tes^rs, others be stark mad, and others imme- 
diately feint. This diswMwse extr^nely affected me, and called 
to ray mind Friday's ecstasy when he met his father, and the poor 
people's ecstasy when I took thmn up at sea after their ship was 
on fire ; the joy of the mate of the ship when he found himself 
delivered in the pb^ee wheie he expected. to. perish; and my o^ 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



328 ADTENTURE0 OF 

Jey, when, after twenty-eight jean' oaptiyity, I fomid a good ship 
readj to cany me to tty own conntry. Ail Uiese thinga made me 
more aenaible of the relation of these pow men, i»ul more affected 
with it. 

Haying thi» * giren a yiew of the state of things as I found 
them, I must relate the heads of what I did for these people, and 
the condition in which I left tiiem. It was their opinion, and 
mine too, that they would be toouhled no more with the sayages, 
Of, if tiiey were, they would be able to cut ^em off, if they were 
twice as many as beiore; so they had no concern about that 
Then I entered into a serious discourse with the Spaniard, whom 
I call goremor, about their stoy in the iadand; lor as I was not 
come to carry any of them off, so it would not be juat to carry off 
some and leaye others, who peHiaps would be unwilling to stay 
if their strength was diminished. On ike other hand, I iM. them 
I came to estaUish ^em there, not to remoye th^n : and then I 
let them know that I had torou^ with me relief of sundry kinds 
for them ; that I had been at a great ohai^ to si:^y them with 
all thkig? necessary as well for their conyenience as their defence ; 
and that I had such and such particular persons with me, as well 
to increase and recruit their nmnber, as by the particular neces- 
sary employments which tb^ were bred to, being artificers, to 
assist them in those things in wluch at present they were in 
want. 

They were all together -wh^n I talked thus to thffloa ; and before 
I deliyered to them the etoses I had l»ou|^ I adted them, <me by 
one, if they had entirely forgot and bnried tite first animouties that 
had been among ^em, and wocdd shake bands with one another, and 
engage m a strict friendship and union of interest, that so there 
might be no more miaanda»taadings and jealousies. 

Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good^hnmour, 
said, they had met with afiietion enough to make tiiem all sober, 
imd enemies enough to make th^n all friends ; that, f<»r his part, 
he would liye and die with them ; and was so far from designing 
any tiling against the Spaniards, that he owned ^ey had done noth- 
ing to him but what his own mad humour made necessai^, and what 
he would haye done, and peiiiape worse, in their ease ; and that he 
would ask them pardon if I desired it for the £K)lish and brutish 
things he had done to them, and was yery wiUing and desirous of 
liymg in terms of entire friendship and union with them, and would 
do any thing that lay in Ins power to conyince them of it ; and as 
lor going to England, he cared not if he did not go thither these 
twenty years. 

Tho Spani»ds said they \»df indeed, at firsts dinrmed and ex* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRXTSOE. 329 

eluded Wifi Atkins and his two countrymen for a& their HI conduct, 
as they had let me know, and they appealed to me for the neces- 
sity they were under to do so ; hut that Will Atkins had behaved 
himself so hravely in the great fight they had with the savages, 
and on several occasions since, and had showed himself so fiuth- 
fill to and concerned fbr the general interest of them all, that they 
had forgotten all that was past, und thought he merited as much 
to be trusted with arms and supplied with necessaries as any of 
them ; and they had testified their satisfaction in him, by ccHnmit- 
ting the command to him, next to the governor himself; and as 
they had entire ccmfidence in him and all his countrymen, so they 
acknowledged liiey had merited tiiat confidence by all the meth- 
ods that honest m^i could merit to be valued and trusted; and 
they most heartily emlnraced the occasion of giving me this assu- 
rance, that they would never have any interest separate &om one 
another. 

Upon these frsuik and open declarations of frienctehip, we ap- 
pointed the next day to dine ail together; and: indeed -we made 
a ^lendid feast. I caused the ship's cook and his mate to come 
on shore and dress our dinner, and the old cook's mate we had 
on shore assisted. We brought on shore six pieces of good 
beef and four pieces of pork out of the riiip'e provision, with our 
punch-bowl, wad m^erials to fill it ; and, in particular, I gave them 
ten bottles of French claret and ten beetles of En^ish beer; 
things that neither the Spaniards nor the English had tasted 
for many years, and which, it may be supposed, ^ey were very 
glad of. The Spaniards added to our feast five whole kids, 
which ^e cooks^ roasted ; and three of them w^re sent, covered 
up close, on board the ^p to the seamen, that they might fbast 
on fre^ meat firom on shore, as we did with, their salt meat from on 
board. 

After this feast, at which we were very innocently merry, I 
brought out my cargo of goods, wherein, that ^re might be no dis- 
pute about dividmg, I showed them that ^ere was a sufiloiency 
for them all, desiring that they all might take an equal quanti^ 
of the goods that were fbr wearing : that is to say, equal when 
made up. As, first, I distributed linen sufiiicient to make every 
one of them four diiirts, and, at the Spaniards' request, afterward 
made them up six; these were exceedingly comfortable to them, 
having been what, as I may say, tiiey had long ranee finrgot the 
use of, or wiiat it was to wear tiiem. I allotted the thin Engli^ 
stufis which } mentioned before to make every one a light coat, 
like a frock, which I judged fittest for the heat of the season, coed 
and loose ; and CHrdered, that whenever they decayed, they should 

28* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



330 AJ>y£NTDRS8 OF 

iBakeBKore,Mlhey thottglit^; the like i<Nr pumps, riioea, rtoddags, 
bats, &0. 

I eanoot express what pleasure, what satisfactioii, sat iqMm 
the cottnteaaBce of all these poor men, wheo thej saw the care 
I had takes of them, aad how well I had furnished them. They 
told me I was a ihther to them; and ths4 haring such a cone- 
spondeat as I was in se remoie a pa^ of ike world, it wotdd 
make them forget that they were left in a desdate place ; and 
they 9^ Yoluntanly engaged to me not to leave the place wi^out my 
consent 

Then I presented to them the people I had brought wi& me, 
partimdarly the taikur, the smith, and the two carpenters, all of 
them most necessary people ; but, aho?e aU, my general artificer, 
than whom they could not name any thing ^at was more usefid 
to them: and the tailor, to show his concern £ot ^lem, went 
to work immediately, and, with my leave, made ^em every <me a 
shirt, the first thing he did ; and, which was still more, he taught 
the women not only how to sew and stitch, and use the needle, but 
made thma assist to make the nhirts Ibr their husbands, and i&t all 
the rest 

As to the eaip^iters, I scarce need mention how usefb) they 
were; for they took to faeces all my chimsy uidmndy things, 
•ad made them clever ccmvenient tables, stools, bedsteads, eupf- 
bourds, lodcers, shelves, and every tidng they wanted of that 
kind. But, to let them see how nature made artificen at first, I 
cimed the carpenters to see Will Atkinses basket-house, as I 
called it: and they 1)oth owned they never saw an instance of 
such natural ingenuify before, nor any thing so regular and so 
handily buiH, at least of its kind ; and one of them, when he 
saw it, after musing a good while, turning about to me, I am sure, 
says he, that ^n has no need of us ; you need do nothing but give 
him tools. 

Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and gave every 
man a d%ging*spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had no harrows 
or ploughs ; and to every separate place a pickaxe, a crow, a broad- 
axe, and a saw ; always appointing, Ihat as ofVen as any were bro- 
ken or worn out, they sdiould be supplied, witheut gni%ing, out of the 
general stores that I lefl behind. Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, 
chisels, knives, sciss<M*s, and all sorts of iron-work, they had without 
tale, as they re(]piired ; for no man would take more than he wanted, 
and he must be a fool that would waste or spoil them on any ac- 
count whatever ; and, for the vme of the smith, I left two tons of 
nnwrought iron for a snpidy. 

My magazine of powder and arms which I brought th«ai was 



Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRtJSOE. 331 

mxskf even to prefuaien, tliat they coak) not but xejoice at them ; 
far now they eoidd inarch, as I used to do, with a nm^et upon 
each Moulder, if there was occasion ; and were able to fight a 
thousand savages, if they had but some litUe advantages of situa- 
tion, whieh also they coi^ not miss, if ttey had ooeasien. 

I d8d:j;ied on ahoie with me ^e young man whose mother wza 
starved to death, and the maid also : die was a wober, well-edu- 
«ttedy religious young wm&an, and behaved so inofl^nsively, that 
eYoay oae gave her a good word; ^le had, indeed, an unha{^y 
life with us, there being no woman in the ship but herself, but 
shfS bcffe £k wkh pati^ice. Afler a while, seeing things so well 
^desed, aod in^ so fine a way of tlmving upon my island, and 
eoosidedlig that &ey had seither busmess nor acquaintance in 
the East Indies, or reascmi fi>r taidBg so long a voyage ; I say, 
eei»Mdering all this, both of &em <;ame to me, and deoored I 
would give them leave to remain <m& &e island, and be entered 
among my iknvily, as they csdled it I agreed to tius n^idily; 
•ad they h^ a MtHe plot of gtcumd allotted to them, whMBipe ^y 
had tiu^e teats or hoisBes set up» suvzomukd with a badcet-w(»:k, 
paUsaded like Atidiffl'B, adjdning to his plantation. Thek tents 
weire ccmtKived so that they had each ^liiem a foem apart to lodge 
In, and a middle test* like a gml Atorehouse, to lay ^leir goods 
in, and to eat and drmk in. And wow iHm otter two Ei^lishmen 
^removed th^ habitattcuis to the same ]^e; and so the ishmd 
was divided into thi^e eokmies, asd no mxsx^ viz. : the Span* 
iardS} with old Friday aod the ficat servants, at my old habitation 
imder the hill* which was, in a word, the ctfpital city ; and ^s^ere 
they had so enlarged aod extended ^ir w(»ks, as w^ under as 
en the oc^ide of the hill, that they lived, tiMHigh perfectly con- 
oealed, yet full at large. Never was there ms/ok a little eity in a 
wood, and so hid, in any part of the waM ; £)r I verily believe 
a thousand men might have ranged the island a month, and, if 
they had not known there was sueh a' thing, and kx^ied on pur- 
pose {(a ^ they would not have Ibund it ; fisr ttie trees stood so 
t^ck and 80 c2oae« und grew so fiist-woven one into ano&er, tliat 
nothing but eotti^ them down first ooi^ discover the {dace, 
except ^ cmly two naccow entranoea wh^e tiiey w^t in and 
out ooold be foond, whieh was not very easy; one of them was 
elose down at the water's edge, ea the side of the eiedc, and it 
was siterward shove two hundred yards to the place; and the 
other was up a ladder at twice, aa I have already fi>rmerly de- 
scribed it; and they had also a large wood thiek-|danted on the 
top of the hill, eontsuning above an acre, which grew apaee, and 
ecoicealed the jdaee tcom aU diaeovery &ere, widi oi^y one nar- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



332 ADV^ENTURES OP 

row place between two trees, not eauly to be diseoTered, to enter 
on that side. 

The ether coiony wee that of W^ Atkins, ^where tli«re were 
fonr femlMes of Englishmen, I mean those I had leH there, with 
their wives and childsen; three sa^^ages that were ^ares; the 
widow and the children of the Englishman that was kHled; the 
yoang man and the maid ; and, by the way, we made a wife of 
her before we went away. There weie alse ^e two carpenters 
and the ta^oar, whom I bright with me for them ; idso tiie smitli, 
who was a very necessary man to them, espeoiaUy as a gad- 
smith, to t^Ke care of their arms ; and my other man, whom J 
called Jack of all trades, who was within himself as good afaaost as 
twenty men ; for he was not only a v«ry ingenioos folk>w, but a 
Tory merry fidlow ; and before I went away we married him to 
the hcmest maid that came with the youth in the sh^ I mentioned 
before. 

And new I speak of marrying, it brings me nateraUy to say 
sometidng of tbs French ecclesiastic that I had brought with me 
out of the ship's crew whom I took v^ at sea. It is troe, &is 
man was a Roman, and perhaps it may give offence to sonie 
hereafter, if I leave any tiling eartraerdinary upon recced of a man 
wh<mi, before I begin, I must (to set hkn out in juet eolouw) rep- 
resent in temis vary much to 1^ disadvantage, in tiie account ef 
Protestants: as, first, that he was a Papist; secondly, a Pepisb 
priest; and, thirdly, a French F^fsah priest But justioe de- 
mands of me to give fahn a dne chamet^ ; and, I ^ustsay, he 
was a grave, sob^ '{nous, and most r^igioos person ; exact in 
his life, extensive in has char^y, and exemplary in almost every 
thing he did. What Aen can &ny one say against being Y^ 
sensible of the value of sudi a man, notwHhstandmg his profos- 
sion ? though it may be my epinion, perhi^, as well as the ofon- 
ion of others who shall read tins, that he was mistaken. 

The first hour that I began to eonveree witli him after he had 
agreed to go witli me to the Elast Indies, 1 found reason to deKg^ 
exceedingly in him conversation; and he first began with me 
about religion in the most ob%ii^ ^amnBer imaginable. Sir, says 
he, you have not only, under God (mod at that he crossed kk 
breast), saved my lifo, but you have admittad me to go UbiiB voy- 
age in your ship, and, by yenr obliging civility, hiLve taken me into 
your family, giving me an opportui^ of ftee conversation. 
Now, sir, you see by my habit what my profession is, and I 
guess by your nation what yours is ; I may think it is my duty, 
and doii^ess it is so, to use my utmost endeavours, on ail occa- 
. 8i<As, to bring all the souls I cam to the knowledge of the tnii^« 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



K<»firN^N CRU0OB. 333 

and to embraeethe C^thoUa do^triae ; bo^ as I am hem usder your 
|>ermission, and iii your &mily, I am bound, in justice to your kind- 
reds, as wdl as in decency and good manners, to be under your gov- 
ernment ; and therefore I shadl not, without your leave, enter into aay 
debate on the ^ints of religion in which we may iiot agree, further 
than you shall give me leave. 

I toM him bis carriage was so modest that I could not butac- 
Imowiedge it ; that it was true we were such peof^e as they c^ed 
heretics, hvtt that he was not the first Oatbohe I had couversed with 
withcmt lyiing mto inconveniences, or carrying the questions to any 
hdght in debate ; that he should not find his^elf the worse used for 
behig^ of a difibreat <^nion from us ; and if we did not oonverse 
witboi^ KBfy diidflte on either side, it i^iould be his fault, not ours. 

He replied, that he thought all our conversation might be easily 
sepeurated &om disrates ; that it ¥raj3 not his business to cap princi* 
pies wi& every man he cokvelfted with i and that he rather desired 
me to converse witii hkn as a gentliraaan than as a rdigieaist ; and 
that, if i would give hmi leave at any time to <Hscourse upon relig- 
iona subjects, he would readily ccMnply with it, ai^ that he did not 
doubt but I would allow him also to defend his own opiniona as well 
as he could ; but that, without my leave, he would not break in upon 
• me with any such thing. He told me farther, that he would not 
cease to do all that became him, in his office as a priest as well as a 
private Christian, to procure the good of the ship, and the safety of 
all that was in her ; and though, perhaps, we would not join with 
him, and he could not pray with us, he hoped he might pray for us, 
which he would do upou all occasions. In this manner we con- 
versed ; and, as he was of the most obliging, gentlemanlike behav- 
iour^ so he was, if 'I may be allowed to say so, a man of good sense, 
and, as I believe, of great learning. 

He gave me a most diverting account of his life, and of the many 
extraordinary events of it ; of many adventures which had befallen 
bun in the few years that he had been abroad in the world ; and par- 
ticularly this was very remarkable, viz. : that in the voyage he was 
now engaged in, he had the misfortune to be five times shipped and 
unshipped, and never to go to the place whither any of the ships he 
was in were at first designed. That his first intent was to have 
gone to Martinico, and that he went on board a ship bound thither 
at St. Malo : but, being forced into Lisbon by bad weather, the ship 
received scfflne damage by running aground in the mouth of the river 
Tagus, and was obliged to unload her cargo there ; but finding a 
Portuguese ship there bound to the Madeiras, and ready to sail, and 
supposing he should easily meet with a vessel there bound to Mar- 
tinico, he went on board, in order to sail to the Madeiras ; but the 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



334 nonsnoN cxvsoa. 



oHwteroftlie Poiiagaste iUp^beaif b«t«Biii^ifiBreiitittiiiier,]tt4 
beea oat of his TeekoBiag, and they drove to Fajrsi ; wheve, kow- 
erer, be Impptoed to find a yeiy good madcrt hi hk caigo, w^ek 
was c<Hii, and tbetefore resotrod not to go to the Hadeiras, b«t to 
load salt at the lale of May, and to go aw^ to New^randlmd. He 
had no remedy in this exigence but to go with the sbip, and had^ 
pretty good Toyage as &r as the BaniEs(80 they call the pfau» where 
they catch te fish) ; where, meetmg with a French shqi bomdfisom 
Fnmee to Quebec, in the rirer of Ganadia, and from the&oe to M»* 
tinico, to carry prorisions, he thooght he shoidd haire an op|Kiitaiiify 
to complete his first design ; but when he came to Qnebee tiiemas* 
ter of tiie Asp died, and the Teasel proceeded no &rther : so tiie 
next voyage he sh^ed hhnself te France, m the ship that was 
bomt when we took them iq> at sea; and then shaped with os for 
the Baal Indies, as I hare already said. Thos he had been disap* 
pointed in fire voyages, all, as I may call it, m one voyage, besides 
what I riiall haTO occasion to rafcntion &rther of tiie suae peisoa. 

Bat I riiall net Bttke di gressio n into ofter mm's stones wfaidi 
hare no relaitioB to my own : I xetam to what eoBoerfta oar aiyxa' 
in the iatud. 



Digitized 



by Google 



SECTION XXXVIII. 

BOBIKtOir't 9I8COVB6B WITH THB B<H!LB8IA«TIC 18 TO IVTBOOVCIirO 
MABBIIOKS AKONO THB PBOPLB.— ^MABBIAOBS PBBFOBXBO. — ATKIllB 

CONVERTS HIS WIFE. 

He came to me one morning, for he lodged among us all the whiUi 
we were upon the island, and it happened to he just when I was 
going to risit the Englishmen's eolony, at the farthest pairt of the 
island ; I say, he came to me, and told me, witii a rery grare coun- 
tenance, that he had for two or three days. desired an opportunity 
of some discourse with me, which he hoped would not he displeas- 
ing to me, because he thought it might in some measure correspond 
with my gener^ design, which was, the prosperity of my new colony, 
and perhaps might put it, at least BK>re than he yet bought it was, 
in the way of God's blessing. 

I looked a little surprised at the last part of his discCurse, and 
turning a little short, How, sir, said I, can it be said that we are 
not in the way of God's blessing, after such risible assistances and 
wonderful deliverances as we have seen here, and of which I hare 
given you a large account? — If you had pleased, sir, said he, with 
a world of modesty, and yet wiUi great readiness, to hare heard 
me, you would have found no room to be displeased, much less to 
think so hard of me« &at I should suggest that you have not had 
wonderful assistances and deliverances ; and I hope, on your behalf, 
that you are in the way of God's blessing, as year design is e3Eceed^ 
ing good, and will prosper : but, sir, though it were more so than 
is even possible to you, yet there may be some among you tiiat 
are not equally right in their actions : and you know, that in the 
story of t^ chikhreD of Israel, one Achan ia the camp removed 



■Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



336 ADVENTURES OF 

God^s blessing from them, and turned his hand so against them, 
that six-and-thirty of thera, though not concerned in the crime, 
were the objects of divine vengeance, and bore the weight of that 
punishment. 

I was sensibly touched with his discourse^ and told him his infe- 
rence was so just, and the whole de^gn seemed so uncere, and was 
really so religious in its own nature, that I was very sorry I had in- 
terrupted him, and begged him to go on : and, in the mean time, 
because it seemed that what we had both to say might take up some 
time, I told him I was going to the Englishmen's plantations, and 
asked him to go with me, and we might discourse of it by the way. 
He told me he would the more willingly w»it on me thither, because 
there partly the thing was acted which he desired to speak to me 
about ; so we walked on^ and I pressed him to be free and plain with 
me in what he had to say. 

Why then, sir, says he, be pleased to give me leave to lay down 
a few propositions as the foundation of what I have to say, ^at we 
may not differ in the general priac^bs, ^oogh we may be of some 
differing opinions in the practice of particidars. First, sir, though 
we differ in some of the doctrinal articles of religion, and it is very 
unhappy it is sa, e^pedaUy in the case before us, as I ^lall show 
afterward, yet there are some general pri^iples in which we both 
agree, vi&, that there is a Qod ; and that thia €rod having given us 
some stated general rules £ixc oar service and obe^enoe, we ought 
not wUteigly and knowingly to ofibnd him, either by negleoting to 
do what he has coBananded, or by doii^ what he has exj^es^ for- 
bidden ; and let oar different religions be what they wMl, this gen* 
eial principle is readily owned by us all, that the biessii^ <^ Grod 
does not ordinarily fi^low presumptuous sinning against his com- 
mand; and every good Christian will be affeettons^ly ccmcemed 
to prevent any that are under his care living in a total neglect of 
God and his ccmmiands. It is not your men being Protestants, 
whatever my pinion may be of such, that discharges me tmm be- 
ing concerned for their souls, smd from endeavouring, if it lies be- 
fore me, l^t they should live in as little distsmoe from enmity with 
their Maker as pessifaie, especially if you give me leave to meddle 
so far in year circuit. 

I could not yet imagine what lie aimed at, andiold him I granted 
all he had said, and thanked him that he wocdd so &r concern him- 
self for us ; and begged he would explain Uie particulars of what he 
had observed, that, like Joshua, to take his awn parable, I might put 
away the accursed Uiing from us. 

Why then, sir, says he, I will take the liberty you give me; 
sfid tWe aro ibiee things, whioh^ if I am right, must stand in tlie 



» Digitized 



d by Google 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 337 

way of God!s blessing upon, your endeavours here, and which I 
should rejoice for your sake and their own to see removed; 
and, sir, I promise myself that you will fully agree with me in 
them all as soon as I name them ; especially because I shall con- 
vince you that every one of them may, with great ease and very 
much to your satisfaction, be remedied;. First, sir, says he, you 
have here four Englishmen, who have fetched women from among 
the savages, and have taken them as their wives, and have had 
many children by them all, and yet are not married to them after 
any stated, legal manner, as the laws of God and man require ; 
and therefore are yet, in the sense of both, no less than fornica- 
tors, if not living in adultery. To this, sir, I know you will ob- 
ject, that there was no clergyman or priest of any kind or of any 
profession, to perform the ceremony ; and no pen and ink or paper 
to write down a contract of marriage, and have it signed between 
them : and I know also, sir, what the Spaniard governor has told 
you, I mean, of the agreement that he obliged th^m to make when 
they took those women, viz., that they should choose them out by 
consent, and keep separately to them ; which, by the way, is noth- 
ing of a marriage, no agreement with the w<Mnen, as vdves, but 
only an agreement among themselves to keep them from quarrel- 
ling. * But, sir, the essence of the sacrament of matrimony (so he 
called it, being a Roman) consists not only in the mutual consent 
of the parties to take one another as man and v^e, but in the 
formal and legal obligation that Uiere is in the contract to com- 
pel the man and woman, at all times, to own and acknowledge each 
other; obliging the man to abstain from all other women, to en- 
gage in no other contract while ^se subsist, and, on all occa- 
sions, as ability allows, to provide honestly for them and tiieir 
children; and to oblige the woman to the same or like condi- 
tions, mutatis mutandis^ on their side. Now, Bir, sajrs he, these 
men may, when they please or when occasion presents, abandon 
these women, disown their children, leave them to perish, and take 
other women, and marry them while these are living ; and here he 
added, with some warmth. How, sir, is God honoured in this unlaw- 
fill liberty 1 and how shall a blessing succeed your endeavours in 
this place, however good in themselves, and however sincere in your 
design, while these men, who at present are your subjects, under 
your absolute government and dominion, are allowed by you to live 
in open adultery ? 

I confess I was struck with the thing itself, but much more with 
the convincing arguments he supported it with; for it was cer- 
tainly true, that though they had no clergyman upon the spot, yet 
a formal contract on bolii sides, made before witnesses, and con- 

39 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



338 ADVENTURES OF 

firmed by any token which they had all agreed to be bonnd by, 
though it had been but breaking a stick between them, engaging the 
men to own these women for their wives upon all occasions, and 
nerer to abandon them or their children, and the women to the same 
with their husbands, had been an effectual, lawful marriage in the 
sight of God ; and it was a great neglect that it was not done. But 
I thought to have got off my 'young priest by telling him that all that 
part was done i^en I was not here ; and they had lived so many 
years with them now, that if it was adultery, it was past remedy ; 
they could do nothing in it now. 

Sir, says he, asking your pardon for such freedom, you are right 
in this, that it being done in your absence, you could not be charged 
with that part of the crime ; but, I beseech you, flatter not yourself 
that you are not therefore under an obligation to do your utmost now 
to put an end to it. How can you think *but ihst, let the time past 
lie on whom it will, all the guilt for the future will lie entirely upon 
you ? because it is certainly in your power now to put an end to it, 
and in nobody's power but yours. 

I was so dull still that I did not take him right; but I ima- 
gined that, by putting an end to it, he meant that J should part 
them, and not suffer them to live together any longer : and I said 
to him I could not do that by any means, for that it would put the 
whole island into confusion. He seeijied surprised that I should 
80 far mistake him. No, sir, says he, I do not mean that you 
should now separate them, but legally and effectually marry them 
now ; and as, sir, my way of marrying them may not be easy to rec- 
cmcHe them to, though it will be effectual even by your own laws, so 
your way may be as well before God, and as valid among men ; I 
mean by a written contract signed by both man and woman, and by 
all the witnesses present, which all the laws of Europe would de- 
cree to be valid. 

I was amazed to see so much true piety, and so much sincer- 
ity of zeal, besides the unusual impartiality in his discourse as to 
his own party or church, and such true warmth for preserving ike 
people that he had no knowledge of or relation to ; I say, for pre- 
serving them from transgressing the laws of God, the like of which 
I had indeed not met with anywhere : but, recollecting what he 
had said of marrying them by a written contract, which I knew 
he would i^nd to, I returned it back upon him, and told him I 
granted all that he had said to be just, and on his part very kind ; 
that I would discourse with the men upon this point now, when I 
came to them ; and I Imew no reason why they should scruple to 
let him marry them all, which I knew well enough would be 
gnmted to be as authentic and valid in England as if they were 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBIN0ON CRUSOI. 339 

marfied by one of our own ckrgymaii. What was afterward 
done in thia matter, I shsdl spmk of by itself. 

I th^i pressed him to tell me wlat was the second ecnnplaiot 
which he had to make, acknowledging that I was very much his 
debtor for the fifst, and thaidied him heaartily for it. He told me 
he would use the same freedom and plainness in the second, and 
hoped I would take it as well ; and this was, that notwithstand- 
ing these English subjects of nane, as he csdled them, had lived 
with those women for sdmoat seven years, had tsCoght them to 
speak £ng^h, and even to read it, and that they were, as he per^ 
ceived, women of tolerate imderstanding, smd capable of instruc- 
tion, yet they had not, to this hour, taioght them any thing of the 
Christian religum, no, not so much as to know that there was a 
God, or a wor^p, or in ^^i^iat manner God was to be served; or 
ih&t tiieir own idolatry, and wcNshif^ing they knew not whom, 
ws^ j^dse and absurd. This, he said, was an uimccountalde neg- 
lect, and what God would certainly call th^n to account for, 
and p^haps, at last, ts^e the woric out of their hands — he 8p<^e 
this very afifocticmately and warmly. I am persuaded, says he, 
had those men lived in the savage ecmstry whence their wives 
came, the savages would have taken more pams to have brought 
them to he idolaters, and to woridup the devil, than any of these 
men, so &r as I can see, Imve taken with them to teach them the 
knowledge of the true God. Now, sir, said he, though I do not 
acknowledge your religion, or you mine, yet we would be glad to 
see the devil's servants, and the subjects of his kingdom, taught 
to know the general principles of ibe Christian religion ; that they 
might, at least, hear of God and a Redeemer, and of the resurrec- 
tion, and of a future state, — thmgs which we all believe; they 
had, at least, been so mucb nearer coming into the bosom of the 
true church than they are now, in Ihe public profession of idolatry 
and devil-worship. 

I could hold no Icmger ; I iock hhn in my arms, and embraced 
him with an excess of passimi. How &r, said I to him, have I 
been from understanding the most essential part of a Christian! 
viz., to love the interest of the Christian churchy and the good of 
otiier men's souls ; I scarce have known what b^ongs to the be- 
ing a Christian. — O, sir, do not say so, replied he ; this thing ia 
not your fault. — No, said I ; but why did I never lay it to heart as 
well as you 1 — It is not too late yet, said he ; be not too forward to 
condemn yourself. — But what can be done now ? said I ; you see 
I am going away. — ^Will you give me leave to talk to these poor 
men about itV- Yes, wkh all my heart, said I ; and will oblige 
themr to give heed to what you say too. — Ab to that, said he, wa 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



340 ABTENTUBM 07 

moat lewe them to the mensj of Charut ; but it is foot hsmaiem 
to assist them, encourage them, and instroct them ; atid if yoa 
give me leave, and Ood his Ue«^3ig, I do not doubt bat the poet 
ignorant souls shall be brosaght heme to tiiie gieait cirole of Chris- 
tianity, if not into the partieidar &itfa we att embrace, aad that 
even while you stay heie. Upon this I siid, I riiall not t>]Gdy give 
you kaye, but give you a thousand thanks fw it. Wh^ fofloppiM 
on this account, I stedl mention also again in its place. 

I now pfessed him for the third aiticle in which we were to 
Uame. Why, xea%, says he, it is of the same nstiffe; and I 
will proceed, addng year leaye, with the same plaiimees as belbre : 
it is about your poor savages, who ate^ as I may say, your con- 
quered subjects. It is a max^XB, sir, that is, or oo^ to be, re^ 
ceived among Ul Christians, of liiiiat church or pr^iended church 
soever, vis.. The Christian knowledge ought to be propagated by 
all posuble means, and on a^ posstUe occasions. It is on tins 
princi]^ that our church sends nnssionaraes into Perma, India, 
China ; and that out clergy, even of the mqietbr sort, w^i^^fy 
engage in the most hazardous yo3^ages, and the most dangetoue 
residence among mnrdeoers aad barbarians, to teach them the 
knowledge of the true God, and to bring thnn over to embrace 
the Christian fiuth. Now, sir, you have such an opportunity here 
to have six or seven-and-thirfy poor savages broug^ over fyma. 
idolatry to the knowledge of God, thehr Maker and Re^toemer, 
that I wonder how you can pass «xch an occasion of doing good, 
which is really vf&tik. the expense of a man^s whde Kfe. 

I was now strode dimib, indeed, ajid had not one wc^ to say. 
I had here a spirit of true Christian seal for God and religiffli be^ 
fore me, let his particular princi^^es be of what kind soever: ae 
for me, I bad not so mu^ as entertained a tbon^ of tins in m^ 
heart before, aad I believe I should n<^ have thought -of it ; isr I 
looked upon these savages as slaves, and peofde whom, bad we 
had any work fc^r them to do, we would have umd as such, or 
would have been glad to have trani^Knted them to any oth^ part 
of the world : for our business was to get rid of them ; -and we 
woidd all have been satis^ed if they had been sei^ to any «oraitry, 
80 they had never seen tbekr own. But to the case ; I say, I wa« 
confounded at hie diseeorse, and knew not wbat answer to make- 
him. I 

He looked earneetiy at me, seeing me in some disorder. Sir, 
sajfs he, I shall be very som^ if what I have said gives ym any 
ojOGence.^ — No, no, said I, I am ofifended with nobody but myaeM'; 
but I am perfectly oonfounded, not only to thkk ihaX^ I shOiM 
nemer take any JHitiee of this bel^ but wi& reieetmg whAt b^ ' 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ItOSU«mON CRUSOE. 341 

Uce I am a^le to take of it now. You know, sir, «aid I, what 
ciicm&st»M;es I am in ; I asQ boaad to the East Indies in a ship 
fieiglited by meschaRts, and to ^sthom it woc^ he 9iti insofferalde 
^eoe of injustiee to detain ^letr ^dup here, ^ meiR iying aH this 
tvhile At Ttetiails and wages on the ownexs' aecootft. it is true, 
I agreed to be afiowed tn^re days here, and if I stay jaaore, I 
uiAst pay three peends steiimg per diem daouBrrage; nor caa I 
fitay upon demnrsage above eig^ da3rs more, and I hare been here 
^iiteen already ; so ^lat I am perfectly unable te ei^fage m ^is 
worky unless I would mdkr myself to be left b^mul htre again ; 
in which case, if tius^sin^ ship should miscarry in ai^ part of 
hex Toyage, I iriicoild be ymi in ^e same condition that I was left 
in tore at first, and finnn which I have been so w^cmderfuHy Qe- 
Hvered. He owned the ease was very hard upon me as to my 
TG^fige ; bnt laid it home iqmr my coaniettce, whe&er the bless- 
ing of saving timtyi^seven sonis was not woHii venturmg ^ I had 
in the w^ld for. I was not so sensiUe of tiiat as he was. I re- 
ttti^ned upon him tlms : Why, sir, it is a valoid^ tiling, indeed, to 
be an insteument in God's hand to ccmvert thirty-seven heathens to 
the knendedge of Christ; but as you are ui ecdesia^c, and are 
given evear to the work, so that it seems so nsUuraUy to fall into the 
way of your pro£3ssim, how is it, then, ^at yo«i ^ not rather ofier 
yonrself to undertake it, than press i6e to do it ? 

Upon this he &oed about Just before me, as he walked alo^, and 
putthug me to a fidl stop, made me a very low bow. I most heartily 
thank God and you, m^ said he, fiur giving me so evident a call to so 
Uessed a wo^ ; and if you ihiak yourself discharged £rom it, and 
desire me to tmdertake it, I wifi most readily do it, and &ink it a 
happy reward for aU the hazards and (difficulties of such a broken, 
disappoii^ed voyage as I iu&rejnet w^ &st I am <kcpped at least 
into so glorious a work. 

I discovered a kind of rapture in Ids &ce ix^iiie he spoke this to 
me ; Ms eyes spaiJded Iflce 'fire, his &ae gtowed, and his colour came 
and went, as if he had been MMg i«bo to ; in a woxd, he was 
fired with the joy of heii^ en^iarked in such a woric I paused a 
conflidendtde while belbro I eoiM teH what to say to lam ; for I was 
reaHy surprised to find aimm of such «nociily and zeal, and carried 
out in his seal beymid liie op^icary rate of moi, not of his profession 
onfy, but even of any prG^Bssion vi4iatsoever. But alter I had con- 
sidered it a while, I asked him seriously if he was in tamest, and 
that he would venture, cm the single eonsideratioa of an attenqft on 
those poor people, to be locked up in ammplaoted i^nd f&c perhaps 
htt life, and at last might not know whether he dbonld be able to do 
than good or not I 

99* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



842 ADrBNTORss oy 

He turned short upoa me, and asked me what I caikd a rea- 
tare ? Pn^i sir, said he, what do you think I contented to go in 
your riup to the East Indies for 1 — Nfty, said I, that I know not, 
unless it was to preach to the Indians. — ^Doubtless it was, said 
he ; and do yon think, if I can convert these thirfy-seven men to 
the ftitii of Jesus Christ, it is not wcnrth my tkae, Ihoagh I should 
nerer be fetched off the iahmd again 1 nay, is it not infinitelf of 
more worth to save so many souls than my life is, or the life of 
twenty more of the same profession ? Yes, sir, says he, I would 
giro Christ and the blessed Virgin thanks all my days, if I eould 
be made t^ least happy inurnment of svring the soak of those 
poor men» though I were never to set my foot off this island, or 
sle my native country any more. But since you wOl honour me 
with potting me into ^toB ^ork, for which I wili pray for you all 
the days of my life, I have one hmi^e petition to ytm besides. — 
What is tiiat? said I. Why, Ba3rs he, it is tiist you will leave 
your man Friday with me, to be my inteq>reter to them, and to 
assist me ; for without some help I ieannot vpetli to thorn, or ihej 
to me. 

I was seui^ly touched at his requesting Friday, because I cotdd 
not think of parting with him, and that far maactj reasons : he had 
been the companion of my travels; he was not only feithfol to 
me, but sincerely affectionate to the last degree; and I had re- 
solved to do something censidembb for him if he outlived me, as 
it was probable he would. Then i knew that as I had bred Fri- 
day up to be a Protestaat, it would quite confound him to faring 
him to embrace another profession; and he wouM never, i^iile 
his eyes were open, believe Hiat Ms old ma^r was a heretic, and 
would be damned ; and this mighty in &e end, ruin the poor fellow's 
principles, and so turn him back again to his forst idolatry. How- 
ever, a sudden thought relieved me in this strait, and it was tiiis : I 
told him ^at I couM not say that I was willing to part with Fiiday 
on any account whatever, though a work tha.t to him was of more 
value than his life, ought to be to me of much more value than the 
keeping or parting with a servairt. But, on the other hand, I was 
persuaded that Friday would by no means agifee to part wl& me ; 
and I could not force him to it, without his consent, without manifest 
injustice ; because I had promised i* would never put him away, smd 
he had promised and engs^ed to me that he w<»ild nev^ leave me 
unless I put him away. 

He seemed very much concerned at it, for he had no r^ittonal 
access to these poor people, seeing he did not understand one 
word of their language, nor they one word of his. To remove 
this difficulty, I told him Friday's father had teamed Spankh, 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 343 

which I found he also understood, Bxd. he should serve hua as an in- 
terpreter. So he was much better satisfied, and nothing could per- 
suade him but he would stay and endeavour to convert them ; but 
Providence gave another very haj^y turn to all this. 

I come back now to the first part of his objections. When we 
came to the Englishmen, I sent for them all together, and after 
soAe account given them of what I had done for them, viz., what 
necessary things I bad provided for them, and how ikey were dis-/ 
tributed, which they were very sensiUe of and very thankful for, 
I began to tadk to them of the scandalous life they led, and gave 
ihem a lull account of the notice the clergyxnan had taken of it ; 
and arguing how unchristian and irrdigious a life it was, I first 
asked ^em if th^y were maifried men or bachelors 1 They so«n 
explained their conditions to me, and showed that two of them 
were widowers, and the otiier three were single men, or bache- 
lors. I asked them with what conscience they could take those 
women, and lie with them as they had done, call them their wives, 
and have so many children by them, and not be lawfully married 
to them? 

They all gave me the answer I expected, viz., that there was no- 
body to marry them; that they agreed before the governs to keep 
them as their wives, and to maintain and own them as their wives ; 
and they thought, as things stood with them, they were as legally 
married as if they had been married by a parson, and with all the 
formalities in the world. 

I told them that no doubt they were mamed in the sight of God, 
and were bound in conscience to keep them as their wives \ but that 
the laws of men being otherwise^ they might desert the poor wcmien . 
cmd children hereafter; and that their wives hmng poor desolate 
women, friendless and moneyless, would have no way to help them- 
selves : I therefore told them that, unless I was assured of their 
honest intent, I could do nothing for them, but would take care tiiat 
what I did sl)ould be for the women and children without them ; 
and ^at uidess they would give me some assurances itaJt they would 
marry the women, I could not think it was convenient they should 
continue together as man and wife ; for that it was both scandalous 
to men and oflpBusive to God, who they could not think would bless 
them if they went on thus. 

All this went on as I expected : and they told me, especially 
Will Atkins, who now seemed to speak for the rest, that they 
loved their wives as well as if they had been bom in their own 
native country, and would not leave them upon any account what- 
ever ; and they did verily believe their wives were as virtuous and 
as modest, and did, to the utmost of their skill, as mush for them 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



344 ▲DVENTURE8 OF 

and for their children, as any women could possibly do ; and they 
would not part with them on any acooont : and Will Atkins, for - 
his own particcdar, added, that if any man would take him away, 
and <^er to carry him home to En^^iand, and make him captara of 
the best man-of-war in the nary, he would not go wiUi him if he 
might not carry his wife and ohikbren with him ; and if there was 
a cleigymaB in the ship, he woidd be married to her now with all 
hisheart 

This was just as I wopld hare it : the priest was not with me at 
that moment, but was not far off; so, to try him fui^r, I told him 
I had a clergyman with me, and, if he was sincere, I would haye 
him married next morning, and bade him consider of it, and talk 
with the rest He said, as for hims^, he need not consider of it 
at all, flm: he was very ready to do it, and was glad I had a minister 
widi me, and he believed they would be all willing also, I then 
told hkn that my iHend the minister was a Frenchman, and could 
not speak English, but 1 would act the clerk betwe^i them. He 
never so much as asked me ^eth^ he was a Pspist or Protestant, 
which was indeed what I was afraid of; so we parted; I went back 
to my clergyman, and Will Atkins went in to talk with bis com- 
panionsk I desired the French gentleman not to say any thing to 
them till the business was thorough ripe ; and I told him what an- 
swer the mea had given me. 

Before I went from their quarter, they all came to me, and told 
me they had been considering what I had said ; that they were glad 
to hear I had a clergyman in my company, and they were very will- 
ing to give me the satisfaction I desired, and to be fcmnally married 
as 80(m as I {leased ; for they were hx from desiring to part with 
their wives, and that they meant nothing but what was veiy honest 
when they chose them. So I appointed them to meet me the next 
mining ; and*, in the meantime, they should let their wives know 
ike mesming of the marriage law ; and that it was not only to pre- 
vent any seandal, bat also to oblige them that they should not for- 
sake them, whatever might happen. 

The women were easily made sensible of the meaning of the 
thing, and were very wdl satisfied with it, as indeed they had rea- 
son to be : so th^ failed not to attend ail together at my apart- 
ment next mofnong, where I brought out my clergyman; and 
though he had not on a minister's gown, after ^e manner of Eng- 
land, or the habit of a priest, after the manner of France, yet, hav- 
ing a black vest, something like a cassock, with a sash round it, 
he did not lo<^ very unlike a minister; and as for his language, 
I was his interpreter. But the seriousness of his behaviour to 
them, and the scruples he made of marrying the wcmien because 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



R^BINiON CRUSOE. 345 

l^ey were not baptized and professed Christians, gave them an ex- 
ceeding rererence for his person ; and there was no need, after that, 
to inquire whether he was a clergyman or not Indeed, I was 
afiraid his semples wonld hare been parried so far, as &at he would 
not have married them at all ; nay, notwithstanding i^l I was able to 
say to him, he reusted me, thoogh mode^y, yet very steadily : and 
at last refused absolutely to marry them, imkss he had first talked 
wi& the men, and l^e wmnen too ; and thongh at first I was a little 
backward to it, yet at last I agreed to it with a good will, perceiving 
the i^ncerity of hk design. 

When he came to tiiem, he let them know that I had aoqnainted 
him with their drcnmstances, and with the present design ; that 
he was very willing to perfonn that part of his function, and 
marry them, as I had desired ; but that, before he could do it, he 
must ta^e the liberty to talk with them. He told them, that in 
the sigM of all indifierent men, and in ^le sense of the laws of 
society, they had lived all iim while in open fornication ; and that 
it was tame, that nothing but the consenting to marry, or effectu- 
aHy separating t^em from one another, eouM now put an end to 
it ; but there was a difficulty in it too, with respect to the laws of 
Christian matrimmiy, which he was not fully satisfied about, viz., 
that of marrjdng one who is a professed Christian to a savage, an 
idolater, and a heathen, one ths^ is not baptized ; uid yet that he 
did not see that there was time left to endeavour to persuade the 
wom^i to be baptized, or to profesa the name of Christ, whom 
they had, he doubted, heard nothing of^ and wkhout which they 
coi:dd not be baptized. He told them he doubted ^ey were but 
kdifferent Christians themselves ; that Ihey had but little knowl- 
edge of God or of his ways, and therefi^e he coold not expect 
HaX they had said much to their wives on ih&t head yet ; but that, 
unless they would promise him to use their endeavours with their 
wives to persuade l^m to become Christians, and would, as well 
as they could, instruct them in the knowledge and belief of God 
that made them, and to worship Jesus Christ that redeemed them, 
be t)Ould not marry them ; lor he would have no hand in joining 
Christians with savages ; nor was it conastent wi^ ^e principles 
of the ChrifiAian religion, and was indeed expressly forbidden 'in 
God's law. 

They heard all this very attentively, and I delivered it very 
faithfully to them from his mou^ as near his own words as I 
could ; only sometknes adding something of my own, to convince 
them how just it was, and how I was of his mind ; and I always 
very faithfully distinguished between what I said from myself, and 
wW wore tiia cl^gyman'is words. They told me it was veary 

P3 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



346 ABTENTVRB8 OT 

true what the gentlemtui said, that they were verj indifibreht 
Christiafis themselvesy and that they h»d never talked to Hieir 
wives about religion. Lord, sir, says Will AUuns, how shot^ 
we teach ibem religion 1 why, we know nothing ourselves; and 
besides, sir, said he, should we'tdk to them of God and Jesos 
Christ, and heaven and hell, it would make th^n laugh at us, and 
aak us 'what we believe ourselves T And if we should tell them 
that we believe all die things we speak of to ^m, sueh as of 
good people going to heaven, and wicked peofde to -die devil, they 
would ask us where we intend to go ourselves, that betieve adi 
this, and are such wicked f(^0W8 as we indeed are? Wl^yj sir, 
'tis enough to give them a suifeit of religion at first hearing ; Mks 
must have some religion themselves befcnre they pretend to teach 
other people. — ^Will Atkins, said I to him, though I am afmA that 
what you say has too much truth in it, yet can you not tdl your 
wife she is in the wrong ; and that there is a God and a reHgion 
better than her own; that her gods are idola; that they can nei- 
ther hear not apeak; that there is a great Bei^ that made all 
things, and that can destroy all -^at he has made ; that he rewsuds 
the good and poniohes ^e bad ; and that we are to be jutted by 
him at last fbr all we do here ? You are not bo ignorant, but even 
nature itself wiU teach you that all this is true ; and I am satis- 
fied you know it all to be true, and believe it yoursdf. — That is 
true, sir, said A^ns ; but with what fauce caai I say any thing to 
my wife of all this, when i^e will tell me immediately it cannot 
be true? — Not true! said I; what do you m^ui by tiiat?— Why, 
sir, said he, she will tell me it cannot be Utie that this 'God I 
shall tell her of can be just, t>r can punish or reward, since I am 
not punished amd sent to the devil, ihaX have been such a wicked 
creature as she knows I have been, even to her, and to every- 
body else ; and that I should be suffered to live, that have been 
always acting so contrary to what I must tell her is good, and* to 
what I ought to have done.— Why, truly, Atkins, said I, I am 
afiraid thou speakest too much tn:^; and with that I infinmed 
the clergyman of what Atkins had said, fax he was impatient to 
know. O, said the priest, tell him there is one thing will make 
him the best minister in the world to his wife, and that is^ repent- 
ance; for none teach repentance like true penitents. He wanU 
nothing but to repent,^ and then he will be eo mudi the better 
qualified to instruct his wife : he will then be uble to tell her that 
there is not only a God, and that he is the just re warder of good 
and evil, but that he is a merciful Being, and with infinite good- 
ness and long-su£Gering forbears to punish those that ofifend ; wait- 
ing to be gracious, and willing not the death of a ainiter, htxt 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 347 

xather tiiat he shoidd letum and liye : that oftentuQes ke suffers 
wicked men to go a long time, and eren reserres damnation to the 
general day of retributioa : that it is a elear evidence of God and 
of a future state, that righteous men receive not their reward, or 
wicked men their punishment, till they ccoae into another world ; 
and this will lead him to teach his Wife l^e doctrine of the resur- 
rection and of the last judgment. Let him but repent for. himself, 
he will be an excellent preacher of repentance to his wife. 

I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very serious all the 
while, aud who, we could easily perceive, was more than ordina^ 
rily affected by it : when, being eager, and hardly suffering me to 
make an end — I know all this, master^ says he, and a great 
deal more ; but I have not the impudence to talk thus to my wife, 
when God and my conscience know, and my wife will be an un- 
deniaUe evidence against me, Hiat I have lived as if I had never 
heard of a God or a fotore state, or any iMng. about it ; and to 
tdk of Bdy repenting, alas ! (and with ^at he fetched a deep sigh, 
9Xid I could see that the tears stood in his eyes), 'tis past all that 
with me. — Past it^ Atkins? said I ; what dost thou mean by that? 
-—I know well enough what I mean, says he ; I mean 'tis too 
late, and that is too true. 

I told the clergyman, word £»r word, what he said : the poor 
zealous priest, — I must call him so, for, be his opinion what it 
will, he had certainly a most singular affection for the good of 
otiier mea's souls, and it would be hard to think he had not the 
Hke for his own, — I say, this affectionate man could not refrain 
from tears ; but, recovering himself, said to me. Ask him but one 
question: Is he easy that it is too late; or is he troubled, and 
wishes it were not so ? I put the question fairly to Atkins ; and 
he answered, with a great desd of passion. How could any man 
be easy in a condition tiiat must certainly end in eternal destruc- 
tion ? that he was far from being easy ; Imt that, on the contrary, 
he believed it would, (me time or other, ruin him. What do yoa 
mean by that ? said I. Why, he said, he believed he should one 
time or other cut his throat, to put an end to the terror of it. 

The clergyman shook his head, with gi^at concern in his face, 
when I told him all this ; but turning quick to me upon it, says. 
If that be his case, we may assure him it is not too late ; Christ 
w^ give him repentance. But, pray, says he, explain this to 
him ; that as no man is saved but by Christ, and the merit of his 
passion procuring divine mercy for him, how can it be too late for 
any man to receive mercy ? Does he think he is able to sin be- 
yond the power or reach of divine mercy? Pray tell him there 
may be a time when provoked mercy will no longer strive, and 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



348 ADVENTURES OF 

when God mmj refose to hear, bat that it is nerer too late for 
men to ask Biercy : and we, that are Cimst's seryaots, are oom- 
maoded to jHreach merey at all times, in the name oi Jesus Christ, 
to aU those that sincerely repent ; so that it is never too late to 
repent 

I told Atkins aU this, and he heard me with great earnestness ; 
hot it seemed as if he turned off the discourse to the rest, £E>r he 
said to me, he would go and have some talk with hk wife ; so he 
went out a while, and we talked to the rest. I perceiyed they 
were aU stupidly ign<ffant as to matters of religion, as much as I 
was when I went ramUing away from my father ; and yet there 
were none of them backward to hear what had been said ; and all 
of them seriously promised that they would talk with th^ wives 
about k, and do their endeaTcnus to persuade them to turn Chris- 
tians. 

The clergyman sniled i:q>on me when I reported what answer 
they gave, but said nothmg a good while ; but at last, i^iaking his 
head, We that are Christ's servants, says he, can go no fother 
than to eidiort and mstnict; and when men c<»x^, submit to 
the reproof, and promise what we sak, 'tis all we can do ; we are 
bound to accept tbeir good words ; but, believe me, sir, said he,' 
whatever you may have known of the lifie of that m^ you caH 
Win Atkins, I believe he k the only sincere convert among them : 
I take that man to be a tme penitent : I will not despair o£ the 
rest ; but that man is appar^atiy struck with the s^ase of his past 
li^ and, I doubt not, when he comes to talk oi religion to his wife, 
he will talk himsdf eSectually into it; f<^ attempting to teach 
others is som^imes &e best way of teaching ourselves. I know 
a man who, having nothing but a snmmary Bo^on of religion him- 
self, and being wicked and profligate to the last degr^ in I|is life, 
made a tlunrough reformation in himself by lai^ouring to convert a 
Jew. If that poor Atkins begins but once to talk seriously of 
Jesus Christ to his wife, my life for it, he talks hims^ intp a 
thorough convert, makes hinuatelf a penitent,^ atid who knows what 
mayfoUowl 

Upon this discourse, however* and their pix^xnsii^, as above, 
to endeavour to persuade tiieir wives to embrac# Chri^ianityi he 
married the other two couple ; but Will Atkins and his wif^ m^te 
not yet come in. Afler tius, my clergyman waiting a while, was 
curious to know where Atkins was gone ; and taming to me, s^, 
I entreat you, sir, let us walk out of your labyrinth h^re, aapul 
look ; I dare say we shall find this poor man somewhere or other 
talking seriously to his wife, and teachmg her already s(»xie^i|Qg 
of religion. I began to be of the same mind ; so we went m^ 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 349 

togetlier, and I carried him a way which none knew but myself, 
and where the trees were so very thick that it was not easy to 
see through the thicket of leaves, and far harder to see in than 
to see out ; when, coming to the edge of the wood, I saw Atkins 
and his tawny wife sitting under the shade of a bush, very eager 
in discourse : I stopped short till my clergyman came up to me, 
and then, having showed him where they were, we stood and 
looked very steadily at them a good whUe. We observed him 
very earnest with her, pointing up to the sun, and to every quar- 
ter of the heavens, and then down to the earth, then out to the 
sea, then to himself, then to her, to the woods, to the trees. 
Now", says the clergyman, you see my words are made good, the 
man preaches to her ; mark him now, he is telling her that our 
God has made him and her, and the heavens, the earth, the sea, 
the woods, the trees, &c. I believe he is, said I. Immediately we 
perceived Will Atkins start upon his feet, fall down on his knees, 
and lift up both his hands. We supposed he said something, 
but we could hot hear him ; it was too far for that. He did not 
continue kneeling half a minute, but comes and sits down again 
by his wife, and talks to her again ; we perceived then the wo- 
man very attentive, but whether she said any thing to him we 
could not tell. While the poor fellow was upon his knees, I 
could see the tears run plentifully down my clergyman^s cheeks, 
and I could hardly forbear myself; but it was a great affliction 
to us both that we were not near enough to hear any thing that 
passed between them. Well, however, we could come no nearer, 
for fear of disturbing them ; so we resolved to see an end of 
this piece of still conversation, and it spoke loud enough to us 
without the help of voice. He sat down again, as I have said, 
close by her, and talked again earnestly to her, and two or three 
times we could see him embrace her most passionately; another 
time we saw him take out his handkerchief and wipe her eyes, and 
then kiss her again, with a kind of transport very unusual; and after 
several of these things, we saw him on a sudden jump up again, and 
lend her his hand to help her up, when immediately leading her by 
the hand a step or two, they both kneeled down together, and con- 
tinued so about two minutes. 

My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud, St. 
Paul! St, Paul! behold, he prayeth. I was afraid Atkins would 
hear him, therefore I entreated him to withhold himself a while, 
that we might see an end of the scene, which to me, I must con- 
fess, was the most affecting that ever I saw in my life. Well, 
he strove with himself for a while, but was in such raptures to 
tbink that the poor heathen woman was become a Christian, that 

30 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



350 ADVENTURES OF 

he was not able to contain himself; he wept several times, then, 
throwing up his hands and crossing his breast, said over several 
things ejaculatory, and by way of giving God thanks for so mi- 
raculous a testimony of the success of our endeavours; some 
he spoke softly, and I could not well hear others ; some in Latin, 
some in French; then two or three times the tears would inter- 
rupt him, that he could not speak at all ; but I begged that he 
would contain himself, and let us more narrowly and fully ob- 
serve what was before us, which he did for a time, the scene not 
being near ended yet ; for, after the poor man and his wife were 
risen again from ^eir knees, we observed he stood talking still 
eagerly to her, and we observed her motion, that she was greatiy 
affected with what he said, by her frequently liiling up her hands, 
laying her hand to her breast, and such other postures as express 
the greatest seriousness and attention; this continued about hidf 
a quarter of an hour, and then they walked away ; so we could 
see no more of them in that situation. I took this interval to 
talk with my clergyman ; and first, I was glad to see the partic- 
ulars we had both been witnesses to, that, though I was hard 
enough of belief in such cases, yet that I began to think it was 
all very sincere here, both in the man and his wife, however ig- 
norant they might both be, and I hoped such a beginning would 
yet have a more happy end : And who knows, said I, but tiiese 
two may, in time, by instruction and example, work upon some 
of the others ? — Some of them ? said he, turning quick upon me : 
ay, upon all of them : depend upon it, if those two savages, for 
he has been but little better, as you relate it, should embrace 
Jesus Christ, they win never leave it till they work upon all the 
rest ; for true religion is naturally conununicative, and he that 
is once made a Christian will never leave a pagan behind him if 
he can help it. I owned it was a most Christian princi^ to 
think so, and a testimony of true zeal, as well as a generous 
heart, in him. But, my friend, said I, will you give me leave to 
start one difficulty here? I cannot tell how to object the least 
thing against that affectionate concern which *you show for the 
turning the poor people from theiiT paganism to the Christian re- 
ligion : but how does this com^rt you, while these people are, 
in your account, out of the pale of the Catholic church, without 
which you believe there is no salvation ? so that you esteem these 
but heretics, and for other reasons as effectually lost as the pagans 
themselves. 

To this he answered, with abundance of candour, thus : Sir, I 
am a Catholic of the Roman church, and a priest of the order of 
St. Benediet, and I embrace all the principles of the Roman faith; 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 351 

but yet, if you will believe me, and that I do not speak in compli- 
ment to you, or in respect to my circumstances and your civilities ; 
I say, ne^ " es re- 

formed, V V it is 

our opini by no 

means lie ;annot 

receive y mper- 

ceivable ; r daily 

for your I lethod 

he, who i surely 

you will I sh far 

between ; Jesus 

Christ, th to the 

true faith, and a savage or a barbarian, that knows no God, no 
Christ, no Redeemer ; and if you are not within the pale Nof the 
Catholic church, we hope you are nearer being restored to it than 
those that know nothing of God or of his church: and I rejoice, 
therefore, when I see this poor man, who, you say, has been a profli- 
gate, and almost a murderer, kneel down and pray to Jesus Christ, 
as we suppose he did, though not fc^y enlightened ; believing that 
God, from whom every such work proceeds, wiQ sensibly touch his 
heart, and bring him to liie farther knowledge of that truth in his 
own time : and if God shall influence ^is poor man to convert and 
instruct the ignorant savage, his wife, I can never believe that he 
shall be cast away himself. And have I not reason tiien to rejoice 
the nearer any are brought to the knowledge of Christ, though they 
may not be brought quite home into the bosom of the Catholic church 
just at the time when I may desire it, leaving it to the goodness of 
Christ to pefffect his work in his own time and in his own way ? 
Certainly, I would rejoice if all the savages in America were 
brought, like this poor woman, to pray to God, though they were all 
to be Protestants at first, rathet than they should continue pagans or 
heathens ; firmly believing, that He that had bestowed the first Ught 
to them would farther Uluminate them with a beam of his heavenly 
grace, and bring them into tbo pale of bis church when he should 
see good. 



. Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SECTION XXXIX. 

▲TKIlfS EXL1.TB8 HIS OOKVBKSATION WITH HIB WIFB. — TBB LA1*TBB BAP« 
TIZBD BT THB PBIE8T. — ACCOUNT OF THB QTJLBVUfO 9TATB C^ THOHB 
ON BOABD THB BBSCUBD VX88BL.~B0BIN80N*f DBPABTUBB FBOM THB 
ISLAND. 

I WAS astonished at the smceritj axid teoaper of this ^us papiBt, 
as much as I was oppressed by the power of his reasomx^ ; 9»d 
it presently occurred to my thoughts, that if such a temper was 
universal, we might be all Catholic Christians, whatercT ehuroh er 
particular profession we joined in ; that a spirit of chsuuty would 
soon work us all up into right principles ; and as he thought that 
the Uke charity would make us ail Catholics, so I told him I be- 
lieved, had all the members of his church the like moderation, t^y 
would soon all be Protestants. And there we left that part, for we 
never disputed at all. 

However, I talked to him another way, and taking ban by the 
hand, My friend, says I, I wish all the clergy of the Romish church 
were blest with such moderation, and hatd an equal share of your 
charity. I am entirely of your opinion : but I must tell you, that if 
you should preach such doctrine in Spain or Italy, they would put 
you into the Inquisition. — ^It may be so, said he ; I know not what 
they would do in Spain or Italy ; but I will not say they would be 
the better Christians for that severity : for I am ^re there is no 
heresy in abounding with charity. 

As Will Atkins and his wife were gone, our business there 
was over, so we went back our own way; and when we came 
back, we found them waiting to be called in; observing this, I 
asked my clergyman if we should discover to him that we had 
seen him under the bush or not; and it wzs his opinion we 
should not, but that we should talk to him first, and hear what 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 353 

he would say to us ; so we called him in alone, nobody being in the 
place but ourselves, and I began with him thus : — 

Will Atkins, said I, pri&ee what education had you ? What was 
your father ? 

W. A. A better man than. ever I shaU be : Sir, my father was a 
clergyman. 

R. C. What education did he give youl 

W. A. He would have taught me well, sir ; but I despised all ed- 
ucation, instruction, or correction, like a beast as I was. 

R. C. It is true, Solomon says, He that despises reproof is 
brutish. 

W. A. Ay, sir, I was brutish indeed, for I murdered my father : 
for God's sake, sir, talk no more about tiiat ; sir, I murdered my 
poor father ! i ' ' 

Pr. Ha! anmrderer! 

Here the priest started (for I interpreted every word as he spoke) 
and looked pale : it seems he believed that Will had really killed his 
father. 

R. C. No, no, sir, I do not understand him so : Wfll Atkins, ex- 
plain yourself; you did not kill your father, did you, with your own 
hands? 

W. A. No, sir, I did not cut his throat ; but I cut the thread 
of an his comforts, and shortened his days : I broke his heart 
by the most ungrateful and unnatural return for the most tender 
and affectionate treatment that father ever gave, or child could 
receive. 

R. C. Well, I did not a^ you about your father to extort this con- 
fession : I pray God give you repentance for it, and forgive that and 
all your other sins ; but I asked you because I see that though you 
have not much learning, yet you are not so ignorant as some are in 
things that are good ; that you have known more of religion, a great 
deal, than you have practised. 

W. A. Though you, sir, did not extort the confession that I make 
about my father, conscience does ; and whenever we come to look 
back upon our lives, the sins against our indulgent parents are cer- 
tainly the first that touch us ; the wounds they make lie deepest, and 
the weight they leave will lie heaviest upon the mind, of all the sins 
we can cmnm^ 

R. C. You talk too feelingly and sensibly for me, Atkins ; I can- 
not bear ii 

W. A. You bear it, master ! I dare say you know nothing 
of it. 

R. C. Yes, Atkins ; every shore, every hill, naj, I may say every 
tree in this island, is witness to the anguish of my soul for my in- 

30* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



354 ADVENTURE! OP 

gratitude and bad usage of a good, tender fkther ; a Either muck like 
yours, by your description : and I murdered my father as well as 
you, Will Atkins ; but I think, for all that, my repentance is -short of 
yours too, by a great deal. 

I would have said more if I could hare restrained my passions ; 
but I thought this poor man^s repentance was so much sincerer than 
mine, that I was going to leave off the discourse and retire ; for 
I was surprised with what he had said, and thought that instead 
of my going about to teach and instruct himj the man was made a 
teacher and instructer to me in a most surprising and unexpected 
manner. 

I laid all this before the young clergyman, who was greatly af- 
fected with it, and said to me, Did I not say, sir, that when this man 
was converted, he would preach to us aU? I tell you, sir, if 
this one man be made a trae penitent, here will be no need of me ; 
he will make Christians of all in the island. But, having a little 
composed myself, I renewed my discourse with Will Atkins. But 
Will, said I, how comes the sense of this matter to touch you just 
now ? 

W. A. Sir, you have set me about a work that has struck a dart 
through my very soul ; I have been talking about God and religion 
to my wife, in order, as you directed me, to make a Christian of her r 
and she has preached such a sermon to me as I shall never forget 
while I live. 

R. C. No, no, it is not your wife has preached to you ; but when 
you were moving religious arguments to her, conscience has flung 
them back upon you. 

W. A. Ay, sir, with such force as is not to be resisted. 

R. C. Pray, Will, let us know what passed between you and your 
wife ; for I know something of it already. 

W. A. Sir, it is impossible to give you a full account of it ; I wn 
too full to hold it, and yet have no tongue to express it ; but let 
her have said what she wOl, and though I cannot give you an ac- 
count of it, this I can tell you, that I have resolved to amend and 
reform my life. 

R. C. But tell us some of it ; how did you begin. Will?, for this 
has been an extraordinary case, that is certain. She has preached 
a sermon, indeed, if she has wrought this upon you* 

W. A. Why, I first told her the nature of our laws about mar- 
riage, and what the reasons were that men and women were 
obliged to enter into such compacts as it was neither in the 
power of one nor other to break ; that otherwise order and jus- 
tice could not be maintained, and men would run from their wives, 
and abandon their children, mix confusedly with one another. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



1^ 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 355 

and neither femilies be kept entire, nor inheritance be settled by le- 
gal desk;ent. 

R. C. You talk like a civilian, Will. Conld you make her nn- 
derstand what yoiu meant by inheritance said families 1 They know 
no such things among the savages, but maary any how, without re- 
gard to relation, consanguinity, or ^mily ; l»rother and sister, nay, as 
I have been told, even the &&er and ^e daughter, and the son and 
the mother. 

W. A. I believe, sir, you are misinformed, and my' wife assures 
me to the contrary, and that they abhor it ; perhaps for any far- 
ther relations they may not be so exact as we are ; but she tells 
me they never touch one another in the near relationship you 
vpesAi of. 

R. C. Well, what did she say to what you told her I 

W. A. She said she liked it veiy weU, and it was much better 
than in her countty. 

R. C. But did you tell her what marriage was % 

W. A. Ay, ay, ^ere began our dialogue. I asked her if she 
would be married to me our way. She asked me what way that 
was ; I told her marriage was appointed by (>od ; and here we had 
a strange talk together, indeed, as ever man and wife had, I be- 
lieve. 

JV. B. — ^This dialogue between Will Atkins and his wife I took 
down in writing, just after he had told it me, which was as fol- 
lows : — 

Wipe. Appomted by your God ! Why, have you a God in your 
<50untry1 

W. A. Yes, my dear, God is in every country. 

Wife. No your God in my country ; my country have the great 
old Benamuckee God. 

W. A. Child, I am very unfit to show you who God is ; God is in 
heaven, and made the heaven and the ear&, the sea, and all that in 
them is. 

Wife. No makee de earth; no you God makee all earth; no 
makee my country. 

Will Atkins laughed a little at her expression of God not making 
her country. 

Wife. No wbgh ; why laugh me % This nothing to laugh. 

He was justly reproved by his wife, for she was more serious than 
he at first. 

W. A. •That's true, indeed; I will not laugh any more, my 
dear. 

WwE, Why, you say you God laakee aUI 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



956 ADTENTUR&fl OF 

W. A. Yes, child, our God made the whole w<»rld, and yoa and 
me, and all things ; for he is the only true God, and tliere is no God 
hut him ; he lives for ever in heaven. 

Win. Why you no tell roe long ago I 

W. A. That's true, indeed ; hut I have been a wicked wretch, and 
have not only forgotten to acquaint thee with any thing before, hut 
have lived without God in the world mysdif. 

WiFK. What, have you a great God in your country, you no know 
him? No "say O to him? No do good tlung for htm? That no 



W. A. It is true ; though, for all that, we live as if there was no 
' God in heaven, or that he had no power on earth. 

Wife. But why God let you do so ? Why he no make you good 
live? 

W. A. It is all our own fault 

Wife. But you say me he is great, much great, have much great 
power, can makee kill when he will, why he no makee kffl- when you 
no serve him, no say O to him, bo be good mans ? 

W. A. That is true, he might strike me dead ; and I onght to ex- 
pect it, for I have been a wicked wretch, that is true; but God is 
merciful, and does not deal with us as we deserve. 

Wife. But then do you not tell God thankee for that too ? 

W. A. No, indeed, I have not thanked God foar his mercy any 
more than I have feared God for his power. 

Wife. Then you God no God ; me no think believe he be ^ucfa 
one, great much power, strong : no makee kill you, thou^ you make 
him so much angry. 

W. A. What, will my wicked life hind^ you frcMu believii^ in 
God ? Wliat a dreadful creature am II and 'vd^t a sad tr^ is 
it, that the horrid lives of Christians hinder the conversi<m of he^ 
thens! 

Wipe. How me Ihink you have great much God up theie,(8he 
points up to heaven), and yet no do well, no do good ^ing ? , Can 
he teU ? Sure he no tell what you do ? 

W. A. Yes, yes, he knows and sees all things; he h«aES us 
speak, sees whs^ we do, knows what we think, tho^i^ we |do not 
speak. 

Wife. What! he no hear you curse, sweai^qpeak it» great 
damn? 

W. A. Yes, yes, he hears it all. 

Wife. Where he then the much great poww strong? 

W. A. He is merciful, that is fdl we can say for it ; and tins 
proves him to he the true God ; he is God^ and not naan, aaid there- 
fore we are not consumed. 



Digitized by y^OOQlC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 357 

Here Will Atkins tdd ns he was struck with horror, to think 
how he coukl tell bis wife so ele&rly that God sees, and hears, 
and knows the secret thoughts of the heart, and all that we do, 
and yet that he had dared to do all the vile things he had done. 
Wife. Merely! What you call that ? 

W. A. He is our father and maker, and he pities and spares us. 
WiFt. So then he never makee kill, never angry when you do 
wicked ; then he no good himsdf, or no great aUe. 

W. A. Yes, yes, my dear, he is infinitely good a«id infinitely 
great, and able to punish too ; and sometimes, to show his jostice 
and vengeance, he lets fly his anger to destroy sinners and make 
examples ; many ^re cut off in &eir sins. 

Wife. But no makee kiU you yet; Aen he tell you, maybe, 
that he no makee y^u kill: so you nmkee de bargain with him, 
you do bad thing, he no be angry at 3^ou when he be angry at 
other mans. 

W, A. No, indeed; my sins are aH presumptions upon his 
goodness ; and he would be infinitely just if he destroyed me, as 
he has done other men. 

Wife. Well, and yet no kill, no makee you dead; what you 
say to him for that ? You no tell him Yankee for all that too % 
W. A. I am an unthank^, ungraceful dog, that is true. 
Wife. Why he no makee you much good better 1 you say he 
nu^eeyou. 

W. A. He made me, as he made all the world ; it is I have de- 
formed mysetf and abused his goodness, and made myself an abom- 
inaUe wretch. 

Wife. I wi^ you makee God know me ; I no makee him angry, 
I so do bad wicked thing. 

Here W^iU Atkins said his heart sunk within him, to hear a poor 
tmtaught creature desire to be taught to know God, and he such 
a wicked wretch ^lat he could not say one word to her about 
God, but what the reproach of his own carriage would make most 
irrational for her to believe; nay, that already she had tM him 
that ^e could not believe in Go^- because he, that was so wicked, 
was not destroyed. 

W. A. My dear, yOu mean, you wish I could teach you to 
know God, not Urod to know you ; for he knows you already, and 
every thought in your heart. 

Wife. Why then he know wbat I say to you now ; he know 
me wish to know him ; how shall me know who makee me '? 

W. A. Poor creature, he must teach thee, I cannot teach thee ; 
I will pray to him to leach thee to know him, and forgive me, that 
am uirwortfay to teach thee. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



358 ADTENTURS8 OF 

The poor fefiow was in saoh ftn agooy at h^ desittef him to 
make her know God, and her wishifig to know him, that he said 
he fell down on his knees before her, and prayed to God to ^i* 
lighten her mind with the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, and 
to pardon his sins, and accept oi his being the unworthy instru- 
ment of instructing her in l^e principles of religion : after which 
he sat down by her again, and their dialogue went on. —This w» 
the time when we saw him kneel down and hold up his hands. 

WiFB, What you put doWn the Jmee for 1 What you hold up 
the hand fori What you sayl Who you speak to J What is 
all that? 

W. A. My dear, I bow my knees in token c( my submissioB, 
to Him that made me ; I said O to him, as you* call it ; and as 
your <^ men do to their idol Benamuckee ; that is, I prayed to 
him. 

Wife. What you say O to him for ? ' 

W. A, I pntyed to him to open your eyes, aad yottr under- 
standing, that you may know him, and be accnspted by him. 

Wife. Can he do that too ? 

W. A. Yes, he can ; he can do all tilings. 

Wife. But now he hear what you say I 

W. A. Yes ; he has l^ us pray to him, and promised to hea^ 
us. 

Wife. Bid you pray? When he bid you? How he hid you? 
What, you hear him speak ? 

W. A. No, we do not hear him £^eak ; but he has revealed hia^ 
self many ways to us. 

Here he was \,t a. j;reat loss to niake her understand that God . 
has revealed himself to nis by his word, and what Ms word was ; but 
at last he tdd it her thus : 

W. A. Gt>d has spoken to some good men in fozmer days, eveft 
from heaven, by |dain words ; and €rod has insfored good men by 
his Spirit ; and they have written all his laws down in a book. 

Wife. Me no understand tiiat ; where is book? 

W. A. Alas ! my poor creature, I have not this booj: ; but I ^ 
hope I shall one time or other get it for you, and help you to 
read it, . • 

Here he embraced her virith great affection ; but with inexpressi- 
ble grief that he had not a Bible. 

Wife. But how you makee me know that God teaches them to 
write that book ? 

W. A. By the same rule that we know him to be Gx)d. 

Wife. What rule ? What way you know him ? 

W. A. Because he teaches and commands nothing but what is 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE.' 359 

good, righteooB, and holy, suid tends to make us perfectly good, as 
well as perfectly happy ; and because he forbids and commands us 
to avoid al| that is wicked, ^at is evil in itself, or evil in its con^ 
sequence. 

Wife. That me would understand, that me fain see ; if he 
teaohee all good thing, he makee all good thing, he give all thing, 
he hear me when I say O to him, as you do just now ; he makee 
me good if I wish to be good ; he spare me, no makee kill me when 
I no be good : all this you say he do, yet he be great God : me 
take, think, believe him to be great God ; me say to him with 
you, my dear. 

Here the poor man could forbear no longer, but raised her up, 
made her kneel by him, and he prayed to God aloud to instruct her 
in the knowledge of himself, by his Spirit; and that by some good 
providence, if possible, she might some time or other come to have 
a Bible, that she might read the word of God, and be taught by it to 
know him.— This was the time that we saw him lift her up by the 
hand, and saw him kneel down by her as above. 

They had several other discourses, it seems, after this, too long to 
be set down here ; and particularly she made him promise, that since 
he confessed his own life had been a wicked, abominable course of 
provocations against God, that he would reform it, and not make God 
angry any more, lest he should make him dead, as she called it, and 
^e^ she would be left alone, and never be taught to know this God 
better; and lest he should be miserable, as he had told her wicked 
men would be, after death. 

This was a strange account, and very affecting to us both, but 
particularly to the young clergyman; he was indeed wonderfully 
surprised with it, but under the greatest aMiction imaginable that 
he could not talk to her, that he could not speak English to make 
her understand him ; and as she spoke l)ut very broken Eng^dsh, 
he could not understand her ; however, he turned himself to me, 
and told me that he believed Ihat there must be more to do with 
this woman than to marry her. I did not understand him at first, 
but at length he explained himself, viz., that she ought to be bap- 
tized. I agreed with him in that part readily, and was for going 
about it presently. No, no; hold, sir, said he ; though I would 
have her be baptized by all means, yet I must observe that Will 
Atkins, her husband, has indeed brought her, in a wonderful man- 
ner, to be willing to embrace a religious life, and has given her 
just ideas of the being of a God ; of his power, justice, and mercy : 
yet I desire to know of him if he has said any thing to her of Jesus 
Christ, and of the salvalion of sinners ; of the nature of faith in him, 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



360 ADVENTURES OF 

and redemption by him ; of the Holy Spirit, the resurrection, the 
last judgment, and a future state. 

I called Will Atkins again, and asked him ; but the p^r fellow 
fell inmiediately into tears, and told us he had said some^ing to her 
of all those things, but that he was himself so wicked a creature, and 
his own conscience so reproached him with his horrid, ungodly life, 
that he trembled at the apprehensions that her knowledge of him 
should lessen the attention she should give to those things, and make 
her rather contemn religion than receive it ; but he was assured, hd 
said, that her mind was so disposed to receiye due impressions of all 
those things, and that if I would but discourse with her, she would 
make it appear to my satisfaction that my labour would not be lost 
upon her. 

Accordingly I called her in, and placing myself as interpreter 
between my religious priest and the woman, I entreated him to 
begin with her; but sure such a sermon was never preached by 
a popish priest in these latter ages of the world ; and, as I toM 
him, I thought he had all the zeal, all the knowledge, all the sin- 
cerity of a Christian, without the error of a Roman Catholic ; and 
that I took him to be such a clergyman as the Roman bishops 
were before the Church of Rome assumed spiritual sovereignty 
over the consciences of men. In a word, he brought the poor 
woman to embrace the knowledge of Christ, and oi redemption 
by him, not with wonder and astonishment only, as she did the 
first notions of a God, but with joy and faith j with an affection, 
and a surprising degree of understanding, scarce to be imagined, 
much less to be expressed ; and, at her own request, she was 
baptized. 

When he was preparing to baptize her^ I entreated him that he 
would perform that office with some caution, thai the man might 
not perceive he was of the Roman Church, if possible, because of 
other ill consequences which might attend a difference among us 
in that very religiqai which we were instructing the^ other in. He 
told me that as he had no consecrated chapel, nor proper things 
for the office^ I should see he woi;dd do it in a manner that I should 
not know by it tiiat he was a Roman Catholic myself, if I had not 
known it before ; and so he did ; for, saying only some words oyer 
to himself in Latin, which I could not understand, he poured a 
whol^ dishful of water upon ^e woman^s head, pronouncing in 
French very loud, "Mary" (which was the name, her liusband 
desired me to give her, for I was her godfether), " I haptize^ thee 
in the name of 5ie Father, and of the Son, and of ihe Holy Ghost ;" 
so that none could know any thing by it what religion he was of. 
He gave the benediction afterward in Latin ; but either Will AUdns 

1 Digitized by Google 



ROBINSON CRU80C. 361 

did not know but it was French, or else did not take notice of it 
at that time. 

As soon as this was over, we married them ; and after the 
maniage was over, he turned to Will Atkins, and in a very affec- 
tionate manner exhorted him not only to persevere in that good 
disposition he was in, but to support the convictions that were 
upon him by a resolution to reform his life ; told him it was in 
vain to sa/ he repented if he did not forsake his crimes ; repre- 
sented to him how God had honoured him with being the instru- 
ment of bringing his wife to the knowledge of the Christian reli- 
gion, and that he should be careful he did not dishonour the grace 
of God ; and that if he did, he would see the heathen a better 
Christian than himself; the savage converted, and the instrument 
cast away. He said a great many good things to them both ; 
and then, recommending them to God's goodness, gave them the 
benediction again, I repeating every thing to them in English ; 
and thus ended the ceremony. I think it was the most pleasant 
and agreeable day to me that ever I passed in my whole life. 

But my clergyman had not done yet ; his thoughts hung con- 
tinually upon the conversion of the thirty-seven savages, and fain 
he would have stayed upon the island to have undertaken it ; biit 
I convinced him, first, that his undertaking was impracticable in 
itself ; and, secondly, that perhaps I would put it into a way of 
being done in his absence to his satisfaction ; of which by-and-by. 

Having thus brought the affairs of the island to a narrow com- 
pass, I was preparing to go on board the ship, when the young 
man I had taken out of the famished ship's company came to me, 
and told me he understood I had a clergyman with me, and that I 
had caused the Englishmen to be married to the savages ; that 
he had a match, too, which he desired might be finished before I 
went, between two Christians, which he hoped would not be dis- 
agreeable to me. 

I knew this must be the young woman who was his mother's 
servant, for there was no other Christian woman on the island : 
so I began to persuade him not to do any thing of that kind 
rashly, or because he found himself in this solitary circumstance. 
I represented to him ^at he had some considerable substance in. 
the world, and good firiends, as I understood by himself, and the 
maid also ; that the maid was not only poor, and a servant, but 
was unequal to him, she being six or seven-and-twenty years 
old, and he not above seventeen or eighteen ; that he might very 
probably, with my assistance, make a remove from this wilderness, 
and come into his own country again ; and. that then it would be 
a thousand to one but he would repent his choice, and the dislike 

31 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ddS ADTBNTUftlt or 

of that circumntince might be disadTaiitageout to both. I was 
going to say more, but he interrupted me, smiling, and lold me, 
with a great deal of modesty, that I mistook in my guesses, that 
he had nothing of that kind in his thoughts ; and he was yery 
glad to hear that I had an intent of putting them in a way to sec 
their own country again ; and nothing should have put him upon 
staying there, but that the voyage I was going was so exceeding 
Aong and hazardous, and would carry him quite out of the reach 
of all his friends : that he had nothing to desire of me, but that 
I would settle him in some little property in the island where he 
was, give him a servant or two, and tome few necessaries, and 
he would settle himself here like a planter, waiting die good time 
when, if ever I returned to England, I would redeem them ; and 
hoped I would not be unmindful of him when I came to Eng- 
land : that he would give me some letters to his friends in Xion- 
don, to let them know how good I had been to him, and in 
what part of the world and what circumstances I had left him in ; 
and he promised me that whenever I redeemed him, the planta- 
tion, and all the improvementa he had made upon it, let the value 
be what it would, should be wholly muie. 

His discourse was very prettily delivered, considering his 
youth, and was the more agreeable to me, because he told me 
positively the match was not for himself. I gave him all possi- 
ble assurances, that if I lived to come safe to Engtand, I would 
deliver his letters, and do his business effectually ; and that he 
might depend I should never forget the circumstances I had leA 
him in : but still I was impatient to know who was the person to 
be married ; upon which he told me it was my Jack of all trades 
and his maid Susan. I was most agreeably surprised when he 
named the match ; for indeed I thought it very suitable. The 
character of that man I have given already ; and as for the maid, 
she was a very honest, modest, sober, and religious young wo- 
man ; had a very good share of sense, vras agreeable enough in 
her person, spoke very handsomely, and to ihe purpose, always 
with decency and good manners, and neither too backward to 
speak when requisite, nor impertinently forward when it was 
not her business ; very handy and housewifely, and an excellent 
manager ; fit, indeed, to havo been governess to the whole island, 
and she knew very well how to behave in every respect. 

The match being proposed in this manner, we married them 
ihe same day ; and as I was father at the altar, as I may say, 
and gave her away, so I gave her a portion ; for I appointed her 
and her husband a. handsome large space of ground for theii 
plantation ; and, indeed, this match, and the proposal the young 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



moBirtsoN CBU80V. 363 

gentkman made to give him a ^mall property in the island, put 
me upon parceliii^ it out among Uj^m, that they might not quarrel 
afterward about their situation. 

This sharing out the land to them I left to Will Atkins^ who 
was now grown a sober, grave, managing fellow, perfectly re- 
formed, exceedingly pious and religious, and, as far as I may be 
allowed to speak positively in such a case, I verily believe he 
was a true peniteat. He divided things so justly, and so much 
to every oi^'s siuisfaction, that they only desired one general 
writing under my hand for the whole, which I caused to be dra^vn 
up, and signed and sealed to them, setting out the bounds and 
situation of every man^ plantation, and testifying that I gave 
them thereby severally a right to the whole possession and in- 
,heritance of the respective plantations or farms, with their im- 
provements, te them and their Iwire, reserving all Uie rest of \he 
island as my own proper^, and a certain rent for every particv 
lar plantation after eleven years, if I, or any one from me, or in 
my name, came to detnand it, paroducing an attested copy of the 
erase writing. 

As to the government and laws among them, I told them I 
vras not capable of giving them better rales than they were able 
to give themselves ; only I made them promise me to hve in love 
and good neighbourhood viri^ one another ; and so I prepared to 
leave them. 

One thing I must not omit, and that is, that being now settled 
in a kind of ccnnmonwealth among themselves, and having much 
business in hand, it was but odd to have seven-and-thirty Indians 
live in a nook of the island, independent, and, indeed, unem- 
ployed; for, excepting the providing themselves food, which 
they had difficulty enough to do sometimes, they had no manner 
of business or property to manage. I proposed, therefore, to the 
governor Spaniard, that be should go to them, with Friday's 
father, and propose to them to remove, and either plsLni for them- 
selves, or take them into their several faunilies as servants, to be 
maintained for tiieir labour, but without being absolute slaves ; 
fbr I would not admit them to make them slaves by force, by any 
means ; because they had their liberty given them by capitula- 
tion, as it were articles of surrender, which they ought not to 
break« 

They most willingly embraced the proposal, and came all very 
ck derful along with him ; so we allotted them land and planta- 
tions, wiiich three or four accepted of, but all the rest chose to 
be «>mployed as servants in the several families we had settled ; 
and thus my colony was in a manner settled, as foP^wsr— The 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



864 ADTCNTUKK8 OF 

Spaniards possessed my original habitation, which was the capi- 
tal city, and extended their plantations aU along t}ie tide of the 
brook, which made the creek that I hate so often described, as 
far as my bower ; and as they increased their culture, it went 
always eastward. The EngUsh lived in the northeast psurt, where 
Will Atkins and his comrades began, and came on southward 
and southwest, towards the back part of the Spaniards; and 
every plantation had a great addition of land «to take in, if they 
found occasion, so that they need not justle one another for want 
!*f room. All the east end of the island was left uninhaMted, 
chat if any of the savages should come en shore theiv only for 
their usual customary barbarities, they might come and go ; if 
tliey disturbed nobody, nobody would disturb them : and no doubt 
but they were often ashore, and went away again, for I never 
heard that the planters were ever attacked or disturbed any more. 

It now came into my thoughts that I had hinted to my firiend 
the clergyman that the work of converting the savages mi^t per- 
haps be set on foot in his absence to his satisfaction, and told 
him that now I thought it was put in a fair way ; for the savages 
being thus divided among the Christians, if they would but every 
one of them do their part with those which came under their 
hands, I hoped it might have a very good effect. 

He agr^jed jwresently in that, if they did their part. But how, 
says he, shall we obtain that of them t I told him we would 
call them all together, and leave it in charge with them, or go to 
them, one by one, which he thought best : so we divided it, he 
to speak to the Spaniards, who were all papists, and I to the 
English, who were all Protestants ; and we reccmmiended it ear- 
nestly to them, and made them promise that they would never 
make any distinction of papist or Protestant in their exhortiUg the 
savages to turn Christians, but teach them the general knowledge 
of the true Grod, and of their Saviour Jesus -CluiaA; and they 
likewise promised us that they would never have any difTeiences 
or disputes one with another ab^ut religion. 

When I came to Will Atkins's house (I may caU it ^o, for such 
A house, or such a piece of basket-work, I believe, was not stand- 
ing in the world again), there I found the young woman I have 
mentioned above, and Will Atkins's wife, were become intimates ; 
and this prudent, religious young woman had perfected the work 
Will Atkins had begun ; and though it was not above four days 
after what I have related, yet the new-baptized savage woman 
was made such a Christian as I have seldom heard of in aH my 
observation or conversation in the world. 

It came next into my mind, in the morning before I went tc 



Digitized by CjOOQLC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 365 

tliem, Uiat among all the needful things I had to leave with them, 
I had not left them a Bible, in which I showed myself less con- 
sidering for them than my good friend the widow was for me, 
when she sent me the cargo of a hundred pounds from Lisbon, 
where she packed up three Bibles and a prayer-book. However, 
the good woman^s charity had a greater extent than ever she im- 
agined, for they were reserve^ for the comfort and instruction of 
those that made much better use of them than I had done. ^ 

J took one of the Bibles in my pocket, and when I came to 
Will Atkins's tent or house, and found the young woman and 
Atkins's baptized wife had been discoursing of religion together, 
for Will Atkjns told it me with a great deal of joy, I asked if 
they were together now, and he said yes : so I went into the 
house, and he with me, and we found them together very earnest 
in discourse. Oh, sir« says Will Atkins, when God has sinners 
to reconcile to himself, and aliens to bring home, he n^er wants 
a messenger ; my wife has got a new instructer ; I knew I was 
as unworthy as I was incapable of that work; that young wo* 
man has be^n sent hither from heaven ; she is enough to convert 
a whole island of savages. The young woman blushed, and 
rose up to go away, but I desired her to sit still ; I told her she 
had a good work upon her hands, and I hoped God would bless 
her in it. 

We talked a little, and I did not perceive they had any book 
limpng them, though I did not ask : but I put my hand into my 
pocket, and pulled out my Bible : Here, says I to Atkins, I have, 
brought you an assistant that perhaps you had not before. The 
man was so confounded that he was not able to speak for some 
time ; but recovering himself, he takes it with both his hands 
and turning to his wife. Here, my dear, says he, did not I tell 
you our God, though he lives above, could hear what we said t 
Here's the book I prayed for when you and I kneeled down under 
the bush ; now God has heard us, and sent it. When he had said 
so, the man fell into such transports of passionate joy, that, be- 
tween the joy of having it and giving God thanks for it, the tears 
ran down his face like a child that was crying. 

The woman was surprised, and was like to have run into a 
mistake that none of us were aware of ; for she firmly believed 
God had sent the book upon her husband's petition. It is true, 
that providentially it was so, and might be taken so in a conse- 
quent sense ; but I believe it would have been no difficult mat- 
ter,^ at that time, to have persuaded the poor woman to have be- 
lieved that an express messenger came from heaven on purpose 
Ut bring that individual book ; but it was too serious a matter to 

31* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



806 ADViifTumn or 

•ofilBT any delusion to cake place ; so I tnrned to the young wohhri, 
and told her we did not desire to impose upatk the new convert 
in her first and more ignorant understanding of things^ and beg- 
ged her to explain to her that God may be yery property said to 
answer our petitions^ when, in the course of his ptoyiklence, such 
things are in a particular manner brought to pass as we petitioned 
for ; but we did not expect returns from hMiyen in a miraculous 
and particular manner, and it is our mercy that it is not so. 

This the young woman did afterward effectually, so that there 
was, I assure you, no priestcraft used here ; and I should ha?6 
thought it one of the most unjustifiable frauds in the world to 
have had it so* But the surprise of joy upon Will Atkins is 
really not to be expressed ; and there, we may be sure, was 
no delusion, ^ure no man was ever more thankful in tiie 
world for any thing of its kind than he was for the Kble ; tva, I 
believe, never any man was glad of a B^le from a better prmci- 
pie ; and though he had been a most {»ofiigate creature, head- 
strong, furious, and desperately wicked, yet this man is a 8t»id» 
ing rule to us all for the well-instructing children, viz. : that pa- 
rents should never give over to teach and instruct, nor ever de- 
spair of their endeavours, let the children bo ever so refractory, 
or, to appearance, insensible of instruction ; for, if ever God, in 
his providence, touches the conscience of such, the force of their 
education returns upon them, and the early instruction of parents 
is not lost, though it may have been many years laid asleep, but, 
some time or other, they may find the benefit of it. Thvm it was 
with this poor man, however ignorant he was of religion and ~ 
Christian knowledge, he found he had some to do with more ig* 
norant than himself, and that the least part of the instruction of 
his good father that now came to his mind was of use to him. 

Among the rest it occurred to him, he said, how his father 
used to insist so much on the inexpressible yalue of the Bible, 
the privilege attd blessing of it to nations, families, and persons ; 
but he never entertained ^e least notion of t^ie worth of it till 
now, when, being to talk to heathens, savages, and barbarians, he 
wanted the help of the written oracle for his assistance. 

The young woman was glad of it also for the present occa- 
sion, though she had one, and so had the youth, on^ board our 
ship, among their goods, which were not yet brought on shore. 
And now having said so many things of this young woman, I 
cannot omit telling one story more of her and myself, which haf 
something in it very informing and rcmartcable. 

I have related to what extremity the poor young woman was 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBIlfSON CRU80B. 867 

ledueed, how her mistress was starved to death, and died on 
board that unhappy ship we met at sea, and how tho whole ship's 
company was reduced to the last extremity. The gentlewoman 
and her son, and this maid, were first hardly used as to pro- 
visions, and at last totally neglected and starved ; that is to say, 
brought to the last extremity of hunger. — One day, being dis- 
coursing with her on the extremities they suffered, I asked her 
if she could describe, by what she had felt, wl»it it was to starve, 
«id how it appeared t She toM me she believed she could, and 
she told her tale very distinctly, thus : — 

First, sir, said she, we had for some days fared exceeding 
hard, and suffered very great hunger : but at last we were wholly 
without food of any kind, except sugar, and a little wine and 
water. The first day, after 1 had received no food at all, I found 
myself, towards evening, first empty and sick at the stomach, and 
nearer night much indined to yawning and aleep^ I laid down on 
a oouch in the great cabin to sleep, and slept about three hours, 
and awaked a little refreshed, having taken a glass of wine when 
I lay down : after being about three hours awake, it being about 
. five o'clock in the morning, I found myself empty, and my stom- 
ach sickiah, and lay down again, but could not sleep at all, being 
very faint and ill ; and thus I c<»itinued all the second day, wi^ 
a strange variety, first hungry, then sick again, with reachings to 
vomit. The second night, being obliged to go to bed again with- 
out any food, more than a draught of fresh water, and being 
asleep, I dreamed I was at Barbadoes, and iJiat the market was 
mightily stocked with provisions ; that I bought scmie for my 
mistress, and went and dined very heartily. • I thought my stom- 
ach was as fuU after this as it would have been after a good din- 
ner ; but when I awaked, I was exceedingly sunk in my spirits 
to find myself in the extremity of famine. The last glass of wine 
we had I drank, and put sugar in it, because of its having some 
spirit to st^ply nourishment ; but, there beii^ no substance in the 
stomach for the digesting office to work upon, I found the only 
efiect of .the wine was to raise disagreeable fumes from the 
stomach into ihe head ; and I lay, as they told me, stupid and 
senseless, as one drunk, for some time. The third day, in the 
morning, after a night of strange, confused, and inconsistent 
dreams, and rather dozing than sleeping, I awaked, ravenous and 
furious with hunger ; and I questk3n, had not my understanding 
returned and conquered it, whether if I had been a mother, and 
had had a little child with me, its life would have been safe 
or not. This lasted about ihiee hours; during which time I 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



308 iioTENTnRts or 

was twice raging mad as waj creature in Bedlam, as my young 
master told me, and as he can now inform you. 

In one of these fits of lunacy or distraction I fell down, and 
struck my face against the comer of a pallet-bed, in which my 
mistress lay, and, with the blow, the blood gushed out of my 
nose ; and the cabin-boy bringing me a little basin, I sat down 
and bled into it a great deal ; and as the blood came from me, I 
csme to myself, and the violence of the flame or fever I was in 
abated, jmd so did the ravenous part of the hunger. Then I grew 
sick, and reached to vomit, but could not, for I had nothing in my 
stomadi to bring up. \ftbT I had bled some time I swooned, 
and they all believed I was dead ; but I came to myself soon after, 
and dien had a most dreadful pain in my stomach, not to be de- 
scribed, not like (he colic, but a gnawing, eager pain for food ; 
and towards ^be night it went off, with a kind of earnest wishing 
or longing for food, something like, as I suppose, the longing of a 
woman with child. I took anoUier draught of water with sugar 
in it ; but my stomach loathed the sugar, and brought it all up 
again : then I took a draught of water without sugar, and that 
stayed with me ; and I laid me down upon the bed, praying most, 
heartily that it would please Grod to take me away ; and compo- 
sing my mind in hopes of it, I slumbered awhile, and then wa- 
king, thought myself dying, being light with vapours from an empty 
stomach ; I recommended my soul then to God, and earnestly 
wished that somebody would throw me into the sea. 

All this while my mistress lay by me, just, as I thought, expi- 
rmg, but bore it with much more patience than I ; gave the last 
bit of bread she had left to her child, my young master, who would 
not have taken it, but she obliged him to eat it ; and I believe it 
savted his life. 

Towards the morning I slept again ; and when I awoke, I feU 
into a violent passion of crying, and after that had a second fit of 
violent hunger : I got up ravenous, and in a most dreadful condi- 
tion: had my mistress been dead, as much as I loved her, I am 
certam I should have eaten a piece of her flesh with as much rel- 
ish, and as unconcerned, as ever I did eat the flesh of any crea- 
ture appointed for food ; and once or twice I was going to bite 
my own arm : at last I saw the basin in which was Ae blood I 
had bled at my nose the day before : I ran to it, and swallowed it 
with Buch haste, and such a greedy appetite, as if I wondered 
nobody had taken it before, and afraid it should be taken from me 
now. After it was down, though tue thoughts of it filled me with 
horror, yet it checked the fit of hunger, and I took another draught 
of water, and was composed and refreshed for some hours afler 



. Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 369 

This was the fourth day , and thus I held it till towards night , 
when, within the compass of three hours, I had all the several 
circumstances over again, one after another, viz., sick, sleepy, 
eagerly hungry, pain in the stomach, then ravenous again, then 
sick, then lunatic,** then crying, then ravenous again, and so 
every quarter of an hour ; and my strength wasted exceedingly • 
at night I laid me dovvm, having no comfort but in the hope that I 
should die before mormng. 

AU this night I had no sleep ; but the hunger was now turned 
mte a disease ; and I had a terrible colic and griping, by wind, 
instead of food, having found its way into the bowels ; and in this 
condition I lay till morning, when I vms surprised with the cries 
and lamentations of my young master, who called out to me that 
his mother was dead ; I lifted myself up a little, for I had not 
strength to rise, but found she was not dead, though she was able 
to give very little signs of Ufe. 

I had then such convulsions in my stomach, for want of some 
sustenance, that I cannot describe ; with such frequent throes 
and pangs of appetite, that nothing but tiie tortures of death can 
imitate ; and in this condition I was when I heard the seamen 
above cry out, A sail ! a sail ! and halloo and jump about as if 
they were distracted. 

I was not able to get off from the bed, and my mistress much 
less ; and my young master was so sick, that I thought he had 
been expiring ; so we could not open the cabin door, or get any 
account what it was that occasioned such confusion ; nor had we 
any conversation with the ship's company f^ two days, they hav- 
ing told us that they had not a mouthful of any thing to eat in the 
ship ; and this they told us afterward, they thought we had been 
dead. It was this dreadful condition we were in when you were 
sent \o save our lives : and how you found us, sir, you know as 
well as I, and better too. 

This was her own relation, and is such a distinct account of 
starving to death, as, I confess, I never met vnth, and was ex- 
ceeding entertaining to me. I am the rather apt to believe it to 
be a true account, because the youth gave me an account of a 
good part of it ; though, I must own, not so distinct and so feel- 
ing as the maid ; and the rather, because it seems his mother fed 
him at the price of her own life ; but the poor maid, though her 
constitution being stronger than that of her mistress, who was in 
years, and a weakly woman too, she might struggle harder with 
it ; I say, the poor qiaid might be supposed to feel the extremity 
something sooner than her mistress, who might be allowed to keep 
the last bit something longer than she parted with any to relievs 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



S70 APTBJfTUKES OW 

the maid. No question, at the case is here related, if oar ttip 
or some other had not so providentially met them, a few dj^ys 
more would have ended all their liveft, unless they had {»is¥ented 
it by eating one another ; and that even, as their case stood, would 
have served them but a little while, they being £re hundred 
leagues from any land, or any possibility of relief^ other than in 
the miraculous manner it happened : but this is by the way ; I 
return to my disposition of things among my people. 

And, first, it is to be observed here, that foe many reasons I 
did not think fit to let them know any thii^ of the sloop I had 
framed, and which I thought of setting up among them : for I 
found, at least at my first coming, such seeds of divisions among 
them, that I saw plainly, had I set up the sloop, and lei^ it among 
them, they would, upon every light disgust, have s^[>«xated> and 
gone away from one another, or peih^s have turned pirates, and 
so made the island a den of thieves, instead of a pUmtation of 
sober and religions people, as I intended it : nor did I leave the 
two pieces of brass cannon that I had on board, or ^e two quar- 
ter-deck guns that my nephew took extraordinary, for the same 
reason : I thought it w^ enough to qualify them for a defensive 
war against any that should invade them* but not to set them up 
for an offensive war, or to go abroad to attack others ; which, in 
the end, would only bring ruin and destruction upon thei« : I re- 
served ^ sloopt therefore, and the guns, for ^m^ service another 
way, as I shall observe in its place. 

Having now done with the island, I left them all in good cir- 
cumstances and in a Nourishing condition^ and went on board my 
ship again the 6th of May, having been about twenty-five days 
anumg them ; and as they were all resolved to stay upon the isl- 
and till I came to remove them, I promised to send them farther 
relief from the Brazils, if I could possibly find an opporti^nity ; 
and, particularly, I promised to send them some cattle, such as 
sheep, hogs, and cows ; as to the two cows and qalves which I 
brought from England, we had been obliged, by the length of our 
voyage, to kill them at sea, for want of hay to feed them. 



Digitized 



by Google 



t^ECTION XL. 

SMCOUK TSR WITH SAVAGES AT SEA.— FRIDAY'S PSATH. — RORINSON FIND* 
HIS FORMER PARTNER IN THE BRAZILS. — SAILS FOR THE EAST INDIES. 

The iie3tt day, giving them a salute (jf five guns at parting, we 
Bet sai', and arrived at the bay of All Saints, in the Brazils, in 
about twenty-two days, meeting nothing remarkable in our pas-^ 
sftge but this : that about three days after we had sailed, being 
becalmed, and the current setting strong to the E. N. E., running, 
as it were, into a bay or gulf on the land side, we were driven 
something out of our course, and once or twice our men cried out. 
Land to the eastward ; but whether it was the continent or isl- 
ands we could not tell by any means. • But the third day, towards 
evening, the sea smooth, and the weather calm, we saw the sea, 
as it were, covered towards the land with something very black ; 
not being able to discover what it was till after some time, our 
chief mate going up the main shrouds a little way, and looking at 
them with a perspective, cried out it was an army. I could not 
imagine what he meant by an army, and thwarted him a little 
hastily. Nay, sir, says he, don't be angry, for 'tig an army, and 
a fleet too ; for I believe there are a thousand canoes, and you 
may see them paddle along, for they are ccmiing towards us apace. 

I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so was my nephew 
the captain ; for he had heard such terrible stories of them in the 
island, and having never been in those seas before, that he could 
not tell what to think of it, but said, two or three times, we should 
all be devoured. I must confess, considering we were becalmed, 
and the current set strong towards the shore, I liked it the worse ; 
however, I bade them iiot be afiraid, but bring the ship to an av . 



Digitized by CjDOQ IC 



'671 ADVCNTURB8 Or 

chor as soon as we came so near to know that we must engage 
Ihem. 

The weather continued cahn, and they came on apace towards 
us ; so I gare order to come to an anchor, and furl all our sails ; 
as for the savages, I told them they had nothing to fear hut Zre, 
and therefore they should get their hoals out, and fasten tl 6m, 
one close by the head, and ^e other by the stem, and man them 
both well, and wait the issue in that posture : this I did, that the 
men in the boats might be ready with sheets and buckets to put 
out any fire these savages would endeavour to fix to the outside 
of the ship. 

In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while they 
came up ]vnth us ; but never was such a horrid sight seen by 
Christians : though my mate was much mistaken in his calcula- 
tion of their number, yet when they came up we reckoned about a 
hundred and twenty-six ; some of them had sixteen or seventeen 
men in them, and some more, and the least six or seven. 

- When they came nearer to us they seemed to be struck vntb 
wonder and astonishment, as at a sight which doubtless they had 
never seen before ; nor could they, at first, as we afterward un- 
derstood, know what to make of us ; they caxne boldly up, how- 
ever, very near to us, and seemed to go about to row round us ; 
but we called to our men in the boats not to let them cmne too 
near them. Hiis very order brought us to an engagement with 
them, without our designing it ; for five or six of the large canoes 
came so near our longboat that our men beckoned with ^eir hands 
to keep them back, whidi they understood very well, and went 
back, but at their retreat about fifty anrows came on board us from 
those boats, and one of our men in the longboat was very much 
wouiuled. However, I called to them not to fire by any means ; 
but we handed down some deal boards into the boat, and the car- 
penter presently set up a kind of fence, like waist-boards, to cover 
them firom the arrows of the savages, if they should shoot again. 

About half an hour afterward they all came up in a body astern 
of us, and so near, as that we could easily discern what they were, 
though we could not tell their design; and I easily ^uxid they 
were some of my old fidends, the same sort of savages that I had 
been used to engage with ; and in a short time more they rowed 
a little farther out to sea, till they came directly broadside with us, 
and then rowed down straight upon us, till they came so near that 
they could hear us speak : upon this I ordered all my men to 
keep close, lest they should shoot any more arrows, and made all 
our guns ready ; but being so near as to be vnthin hearing, I made 
Friday go out upon the deck, and call out aloud to them in his 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



BOBINSON CRVlSOtf. 373 

language, to know what they meant ; which accordingly he did. 
Whether they understood him or not, that I knew not ; but as soon 
as he had called to them, six of them, who were in the foremost 
or nighest boat to us, turned their canoes from us, and, stooping 
down, showed us their naked backsides, just as if, in English, 
saving your presence, they had bid us kiss — : whether this wa« 
a defiance or challenge we knew not, or whether it was done in 
mere contempt, or as a signal to the rest ; but immediately Friday 
called out they were going to shoot, and, unhappily for lidm, poor 
fellow, they let fly about three hundred of their arrows, and, to 
my inexpressible grief, killed poor Friday, no other man being in 
their sight. The poor fellow was shot with' no less than t^ee 
arrows, and about three more fell very near him ; such unlucky 
marksmen they were ! 

I was so enraged at the loss of my old trusty servant and com 
panion, that I immediately ordered five guns to be loaded with 
small shot, and four yirith great, and gave them such a broadside 
as they had never heard in their lives before, to be wire. They 
were not above half a cable length off when we fi^ed ; and our 
gunners took their aim so well that three or four of their canoes 
were overset, as we had reason to believe, by one shot only. 

The ill manners of turning up their bare backsides to us gave 
us no great offence ; neither did I know for certain whether that 
which would pass for the greatest contempt among us might be 
understood so by them or not ; therefore, in return, I had only re- 
solved to have fired four or fiwe guns at them with powder only, 
which I knew would frighten them sufficiently ; but when they 
shot at us directly, with all the fury they were capable of, and es- 
pecially as they had killed my poor Friday, whom I so entirely 
loved and valued, and who, indeed, so well deserved it. T thougl^ 
myself not only justifiable before God and man, but would have 
been very glad if I could Jiave overset every canoe there, and 
drowned every one of Ihem, 

I can neither tell how naany we killed nor how many we 
wounded at this broadside, but sure such a fright und hurry never 
was seen among auch a multitude ; there were thirteen or four- 
teen of their canoes split and overset in all, and the men all set 
a swimming : the rest, fnghtened out of their wits, scouted away 
as fast as they could, taking but little care to save those whose 
boats vfere split or spoiled with our shot ; so I suppose that many 
of them were lost ; and our men took up one poor fellow swim 
ming for his life above an hour after they were all gone. 

The small shot from our canon must needs kill and wound a 
great many ; but, in short, we never knew any thing how it wejtf 

33 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



874 AD^cirreBit or 

with them, for they fled fo fast, that in three lioora or thereabootf 
we could not see aboye three or four straggling canoes, nor did 
we erer see the rest any more ; for, a breeee of wind springii^ 
up the same evening, we weighed, and set sail for ^le Brazils. 

We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was so sullen that 
he would neither eat nor speak, and we all fancied he would 
starre himself to death : but I took a way to cure him ; &^ I made 
them lake him and turn him into ^e longboat, and make him beliere 
they would toss him into the sea again, and so leave htm where 
they found him, if he would not speak : nor would that do, but 
they really did throw him into the sea, and came away from him ; 
and^then he followed them, for he swam like a cork, and called to 
tem in his tongue, though they knew not one word of what he 
said : however, at last they took him in again, and tinen he began 
to be more tractable ; nor did I ever design they should drown 
him. 

We were now under sail ^ain ; but I was the most disconso- 
hite creature alive for want of my man Friday, and would have 
been very glad to have gone back to the island to have taken one 
of the rest from thence for my occasion ; but it could not be ; so 
we went on. We had one prisoner, as I have said, and it was a 
long time be^re we could make him understand any ^ng ; but, 
in time, our men taught him some EngHshi and he began to be a 
little tractable. Afterward, we inquired what country he came 
from, but could make nothing of what he said ; for his speech 
was so odd, all gutturals, and he spoke in the throat in such 
a hollow, odd manner, that we could never form a word a^r 
him; and we were all of opinion that they might speak that 
language as well if they were gagged as otherwise ; nor could 
we perceive that they had any oecasioa ei^r for teeth, tongue, 
lips, or palate, but formed their words just as a hunting-horn 
forms a tune, with an open throat. He told us, however, some 
time after, when we had taught him to speak a little English, that 
they were going with their kings to fight a great battle. When 
he said kings, we asked him how many kings t He said they 
were five nation (we could not make him understand the plural «), 
and that they all joined to go against two nation. We asked 
him what made them come up to us T He said, " To Boakee t» 
great wonder look.** Here it is to be observed, that ail those 
natives, as also those of Afirica, when they learn English, always 
add two e^s at the end of the words where we use one ; and they 
place the accent upon them, as makee, takee, and the like ; and 
we couM not break th^n of it ; nay, I could hal:dly ma^e Fiidav 
\»m9 it 9ff, tbough at last hedid. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



■oBiHtoif cmvooi. 879 

And naw I name the poor fellow once more, I mast take mj 
last leave of him : Fo(m: honest Friday ! We buried him with 
all the decency and solepmity posaible, by putting him into a 
coffin, and throwing him into the sea; and I caused them to fire 
eleven guns for him : and so ended the life of the most grateful, 
faithful, honest, and most afijectionate servant that ever man had* 

We went now away, with a fair wind, for Brazil: and in 
about twelve days' time we made land,. in the latitude of ^e d^ 
grees south of the line, being the northeastemmost land of aU 
that part of America. We kept on S. by £. in sight of the 
shore four d^ys, when we made Cape St. Augostitte, and in three 
jdays came to an anchor off the bay of All Saints, the old place 
of my deliverance, &om whence came both my good and evil fate. 

Never ship came to this port that had less business than 1 
had, and yet it was with great di^&cuHy that we were adimtted to 
hold the least correapondenee on shore : not my partner faimMl^ 
who was alive, and m»de a great figure amcmg Uiem, not my two 
merchant trustees, net the fame of my wond^rfid fnres^rvation in 
the island, could obtain me that favour ; but my partner remem^ 
bering that I had given five hundred moidores to the prior of the 
monastery of the Augustfenes, and two hundred and seventy^two 
to the poor, went to the monastery, and obl^ed the prior that 
then was to go to the governor, and get leave for me personally, 
with the captain and one more, besides je%ht seamen, to come on 
shore, and no more ; and this, upon condi^on absolutely capitu- 
lated for» that we should not offer to land any goods out of thm 
ship, or to carry any person away witlrout license. They were 
so strict with us as to landing any goods, ^at it was with extreme 
difficulty that I got on shore three bales of English goods, such 
as fine broadcloths, stuffs, and some linen, which I had brought 
fi>r a present to my partner. 

He was a very generous, open»hearted man ; though, like me, 
he came from little at first : wad though he knew not ^lat 1 had the 
least design of giving him any thing, he sent me on board a present 
of fresh provisions, wine, and sweetmeats, w^rth above tiiir^ 
moidores, including some tobacco, 'and three or four fine medak 
of gold : but I was even with him in my present, which, as I have 
. said, consisted of fine iHToadcloth, English stuffs, lace, and fine 
hollands ; also I delivered him about XhB vHrte of one himdred 
pounds sterling, in the same goods, for other uses ; and I obliged 
him to set up the sloop, which I had brought with me fiK>m Eng- 
land, as I have ssud, for the use of my colony* in order to send 
the refireshments- 1 intended to my plantation. ^ 

AiCcordingly, he got hands, and finished the sloop in a veor? 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



376 ADTF.NTtJRER Op ' 

few days, for she was already framed ; and T ^ve the master of 
ber such instructions as that he could not miss the place ; nor 
did he miss it^ as I had an account froni my partner alter- 
ward. I got him soon loaded with the small cargo 1 sent them; 
and one of our seamen that had been on shore with me there 
offered to go with the sloop and settle there, upon my letter to 
the goremor Spaniard to allot him a sufHcient quantity of land 
ibr a plantation, and giving him some clothes and tools ibr his 
plantiiig work, which he said he understood, having been an old 
planter at Maryland, and a bucanier into the bargain. I en- 
couraged the fellow, by granting all he desired ; and, as an addi- 
tian> I gave him the savage whom we had takeii prisoner of war 
to be hLs slave, and ordered tiie governor Spcmiard to give him 
his share of every thing he wanted with the rest. 

When we came to fit this man out, my old partner told me 
there was a certain very honest fellow, a Braz^ planter of his 
acquaintance, who had fallen into the displeasure of the church. 
I know not what the matter is with him, says he, but on my con- 
science I think he is a heretic in his heart, and he has been obliged 
to conceal himself for fear of the Inquisition ; that he would be 
very glad of such an opportunity to dtoke \m escape, with his 
wife and two daughters ; and if I would let them go to my island, 
and allot them a plantation, he would give them a small stock to 
begin with ; for the officers of the Inquisition had s^zed all his 
effects and estate, and he had nothing left but a liule household 
stuff and two slaves : and, adds he, though I hate his principles, 
yet I would not have him fidl into their hands, for hie will be 
assuredly burnt alive if he does. 

I granted this presently, and joined my Englishman with them ; 
and we concealed tiie man, and his wife and daughters, on board 
our ship, till the sloop put out to go to sea ; and then, having put 
all their goods on board some time before, we put them on board' 
the sloop a^r she got out of the bay. 

Our seaman was mightily pleased with this new partner; and 
dieir stocks, indeed, were^ much alike rich in tools, in prepara- 
tions, and a farm ; but nothing to begin i/dth, except as alx)ve : 
however, they carried over with them^ which was wonh all the 
rest, some materials for ^planting sugarcanes, with some plants 
of canes, which he, I mean the Portugal man, understood very 
well 

Among the rest of the supplies sent to my tenants in the 
ii^and, I sent them by the sloop three milch cows and five calves, 
about twenty-two hogs among them, three sows big with pig, two 
ittares, and a stonehorse» For my Spaniards, according to mf 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRU80I. 377 

promise, I Jttgaged three P<»rtugal women to go, and recom* 
mended it to them to marrj them, and use them kindly. I could 
have procured more women, but I remembered that the po6r 
prosecuted man had two daughters, and that there were but five 
of the Spaniards that wanted ; the rest had wives of their own, 
though in another country. 

AH this cargo arrived safe, and, as you may easily suppose, 
was very virelcome to my '>ld inhabitants, who were now, with 
this addition, between sixty and seventy people, besides little chil* 
dren, of which there were a great many. I found letters at Lon* 
don from them all, by way of Lisbon, when I came back to Eng- 
land, of whi6h I shall also take some notice immediately, 

I have now done witii the island,' and all manner of discourse 
about it ; and whoever reads the rest of my memorandums would 
do well to turn his thoughts entirely from it, and expect to read 
of the follies of an old man, not warned by his own hanns, much 
less by those of other men, to beware of the like ; not coc^d by 
almost f<»rty years' miseries and disaj^intment ; not satisfied 
Vfdth prosperity beyond expectation, nor made cautious by afflic- 
tions and distress beyond imitation. 

I had no more business to go to the East Indies than a man 
at full liberty has to go to the turnkey at Newgate, and desire 
him to lock him up among the prisoners tiiere, and starve him. 
Had I taken a smaU vessel from England, and gone directly to 
the island ; had I loaded her, as I did the other vessel, with all 
the necessaries for the plantation and for my people ; taken a 
patent firom the government here to have secured my property, in 
subjection only to that of England ; had I carried over cannon 
and ammunition, servants, and people to plant, ^nd taken posses- 
sion of the place, fortified and strengthened it in the name of 
England, and increased it with people, as I might easily have 
done ; had I then settled myself there, and sent the ship back 
laden with good rice, as I might also have done in six months' 
time, and ordered my friends to have fitted her out again for our 
supply ; had I done this, and stayed there myself, I had at least 
acted like a man of common sense : but I was possessed with a 
wandering spirit, and scorned aU advantages : I pleased myself 
with being Uie patron of the people I placed ^re, and doing for 
them in a kind of haughty, majestic way, like an old patriarchal 
monarch, providing for them as if I had been father of the whole 
family, as well as of the plantation : but I never so much as pre- 
tended to plant in the name of any government or nation, or to 
acknowledge any prinoe, or to call my peofde subjects to any one 
nation more than another : nay, I never so much as gave the 

3«» 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



378 AWC1ITVRC8 OP 

place a name, buV left it as I found it, belongiag to nobody^ and 
the people under no discipline or goremraent but my own ; wko^ 
though 1 had influence orer thoan as a father and benefaetor, had 
no authority or power to act or command one way csr other, farther 
than Tolontary consent moved them to comply : yet even this, 
had I stayed there, would have done well enough ; but as I ram- 
bled from them, and came there no more, the last letters I had 
from any of them were by my partner's means, who afterward 
sent another sloop to the ^ace, and who sem me word> though 
I had not the letter till I got to London, several years afiar it 
was written, that they weitt on but poorly, were maleeontent wkh 
their long stay there ; that Will Atkins was dead ; 'thafc five of 
the Spaniards were come away ^ and though they had not been 
much molested by the savages, yet they lad had tome skirmishes 
with them ; and that they begged of bira to write to me to think 
of the promise I had made to feldi them away, that they might 
see thi^ country again before ^y died. 

But I was gone a wil(^;oose chase, incted I and they that will 
have any more of me must be o<Hitent to follow me into a new 
variety of follies, hardships, and wild adventures, wherein the 
justice of Providence may be duly observed ; and we may see 
bow easily Heaven can gorge us with cm own^esirest make the 
strongest of our wishes be our affliction, and pumah us most se- 
verely with those very things which we think it would be out 
utmost happiness to be allowed in. Whether I had business or 
no business, away I went ; it » no time now to enlarge upon the 
reason or absmidity of my own conduct, but to come to Ihe his- 
tory ; I was embarked for the voyage, and the voyage I went 

I shall only add a word or two concermng my honeat papi^ 
clergyman ; for let ^ir a|nnion of us, and all other heretics in 
general, as they call us, be as uncharitable as it may, I verily 
believe this man was very sincere, and wished the good of «di 
men s yet I believe he was upon the reserve in many of his ex* 
pressions, to prevent giving me ofifenoe ; for I scajce heard hkn 
once call on ihe blessed Virgin, or mention St. Jago or his guar- 
dian angel, though so common with the rest of them : however, 
I say, I i^A not the lei^ doubt of his sinceiHy and pi<ms inten- 
tions on his own pairt ; and I am firmly of opinion, if the rest of 
the popish missionaries were like him, they wouM strive to visit 
even the poor Tartars and Laplanders, where they have nothing 
to give ^lem, as well as covet to fiock to India, Persia, China, 
Jltc., the most wealthy of the heathen countries; for if they ex* 
pectod to bring no gains to their church by it, it may well be ad« 



Digitized 



by Google 



ROBIKSON 1.RU80E. 379 

miied how they came to admit the Chinese Confucius into the 
calendar of the Christian saints. But this by-the-by. 

A ship being ready to sail for Lisbon, my pious priest asked 
me leave to go thither ; being still, as he olxserved, bound never 
to finish any voyage he began. How happy had it heen for me 
if I h .' all things 

Heavt , I had never 

had Si er had never 

heard es of Robin- 

son C yself, and go 

on wi iirectly over 

the A da tolerable 

good and then a 

storm ; i»ea were at 

an end ; my future rubs and cross events were to befall me on 
shore, that it might appear the land was as well prepared to be 
our scourge as the sea. 

Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a supercargo on 
board, who waa to direct all her motions after she arrived at the 
Cape, only being limited to a certain number of days for stay, 
by charter-party^ at the i&everal pcwrts she was to go to. This 
was none of my business, neither did I meddle with it ; my 
nephew, the captain, and the supercargo, adjusting all those 
things between them as they thought fiu 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



6 J CI LOS XLI. 

TUB VN.88BL T0UCKR8 AT MADAGASCAR. — AFFRAY WITH THE NATIVIS,— > 
WBO AEB MASSACRED BV THB GKBW.— THB SAILORS AFTERWARD RBFU8B 
' TO SAIL WITH ROBINSON, WHO IB LBFT BY BIS NBPHBW, THR CAPTAIN, 
IN BENOAL. 

Wi Stayed at the Cape no longer than was needful to take in 
fresh water, but made the best of our way for the coast of Coro- 
mandel. We were indeed informed that a French man-of-war 
of fifty guns, and two large merchant ships, were gone for the 
Indies ; and as I knew we were at war with France, I had some 
apprehensions of them ; but they went their own way, and we 
heard no more of them. 

I shall not jester the reader with a tedious description of 
places, journals of our voyages, yariations of the compass, lati- 
tudes, trade-winds, &c. ; it is enough to name the ports and 
places which we touched at, and what occurred to us upon our 
passing from one to another. We touched first at the Island of 
Madagascar, where, though the people are fierce and treacherous, 
and very well armed with lances and bows^ which they use with 
inconceivable dexterity, yet we fared very well with them a while ; 
they treated us very civilly ; and, for some trifles which we gave 
them, such as knives, scissors, &c., they brought us eleven good 
. fat bullocks of a middling size, which we took in, partly for fresh 
provisions for our present spending, and the rest to salt for the 
ship's use. 

We were obliged to stay here some time after we had fur- 
nished ourselves with provisions ; and I, who was always too 
curious to look into every nook of the world wherever I came 
was for going on shore as often as I could. It was on the east 



Digitized by. VjOOQ IC 



ftOBiNsaif cRweoie. 381 

tide of the island that we went on shore one evening : and the 
people, who, by the way, afe very numerous, came thronging 
about us, and stood gazing at us at a distance ; but, as we had 
traded freely with them, and had been kindly used, we thought 
ourselves in no danger ; but when we saw the people, we cut 
three houghs out of a tree, and stuck them up at a distance 
from us; which, it seems, is a mark in that country, not only 
of a truce and friendship, but when it is accepted, the other side 
sets up three poles or boughs, which is a signal that they accept 
the truce too ; but then this is a known condition of the tnice, 
that you are not to pass beyond their three poles towards them, 
nor they to come past your three poles or boughs towards you ; 
so that you are perfectly secure within the three poles, and all 
the- apace between your poles and theirs is allowed like a market 
for free eonverse, tnMc; and commerce. When you go Uiere, 
you must not carry your weapons with you : and if they come 
into that space, they stick up Uieir javelins and lances all at the 
first poles, and come on unarmed ; but if any violence is offered 
them, and the truce thefd>y broken, away they run to the poles, 
and lay hold of l&eir weapons, and the truce is at an end. 

It happened one evening when we went on shore^ that a greater 
nilmber of their people came down Aan usual, but all i^ery friendly 
and civn ; and they brought several kinds of provisions, for which 
we satisfied them with such toys as we had ; their women also 
brought us milk and roots, and several things very acceptable to 
us, and all was quiet ; and we made us a httle tent or hut of 
soma boughs of trees, and lay on shore all night. 

I know not what was the occasion, but I was not so well satis- 
fied to lie on shore as the rest ; and the boat riding at an anchor 
about a stone's cast from the land, with two men in her to take 
care of her, I made one of them come on shore ; and getting some 
boughs of trees to cover us also in the boat, I spread the sail 
on the Ixyttom Oif the boat, and lay under the cover of the branches 
of the trees all night in the boat. 

AJbout two o'clock in the momkig we heard one of our men 
make a terrible noise on the shore, calling but, for God's sake, 
to bring the boat in, and come and help them, for they were all 
/Uke to be murdered ; at the same time I heard the fire of &ve 
muskets, which was the number of the guns they had, and that 
three times over ; for, it seems, the natives here were- not so ea- 
sily frightened with guns as the savages were in America, where I 
had to do with them. All this while I knew not what was tlie mat- 
ter, but rousing immediately from sleep with the noise, T caused 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



98% ADTBNTURfcS OF 

the boat to be thru«t in, and resohredf with thrae hueev we hftd 
on board, to land and astitt our m^n. 

We got the boat soon to tlie shore, but our men were in too 
nuch haete ; for being come to the iAiore, thej plunged into the 
water to get to the boat with all the expedition they could, being 
puraued hj between three and four hundred men. Our men were 
but nine in all, and only five of them had fuseee with them ; the 
rest had pistole and swords, indeed, but they were of small use 
lo them. 

We took up seven of our men, and with difficulty enough too, 
three of them being very ill wounded ; and diat which was still 
worse was, that while we stood in the boat to t^ce our men in, 
we were in as much danger as they were in on shore ; for they 
poured their arrows in upon us so thick, that we vrere ^^to bar- 
ricade the side of ^e boat up with tiie bendies, and two or three 
loose boards, which, to our great sttis&etion, we had by mere 
accident in the boat. And yet, had it been dayUgfat, they aie, it 
seems, such exact marksmen, that if ^y could have seen but the 
least part of any of us, they would have been sure of us. We 
had, by the hght of tiie moon, a little sight of them, as ^ey stood 
pelting us from the shore with darts and arrows ; and having got 
ready our fire*arm8, we gave them a volley, that we could hear, 
by the cries of some of them, had wounded sevenl ; however, 
^y stood thus in battle array on the shore till break of day, 
which we suj^iose was that they might see ^ bett^ to take their 
aim at us. 

In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to weigh our 
anchor or set up our sail, because we must needs stand up in the 
boat, and they were as sure to hit us as we were to hit a bird in 
a tree wtdi small shot We made signals of distress to the ship, 
which though she rode a league o^ yet my' nephew, ^le captain, 
hearing our firing, and by glasses perceiving the posture we lay 
in, and that we fired towards the shore, pretty well undeistood 
us ; and weighing anchor with aU speed, he stood as near the 
shore as he durst with the ship, and then sent another boat with 
ten hands in her to assist us : but we called to them n^ to come 
too near, telling them what condition we were in; however, they 
stood in near to us, and one of the men taking the end of a tow 
line in his hand, and keeping one boat between him and the «n 
emy, so that they could not perfectly see him, swam on board us, 
and made fast the line to the boot ; upon which we slipped out a 
little cable ; and leaving our anchor behind, they towed us out of 
the reach of the arrows ; we aH the while lying close behind the 
barricade we had made. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SOBIXSOll CSD»OB. 888 

i.« soou as we were got from between the sh and the shore, 
that we could lav her side to the shore, she run along just by 
thein, and poured in a broadside among them loaded with pieces 
of iron and. lead, small bullets, and such stufif, besides the great 
shot, which made a terrible havoc among them. 

When we were got on board and out of dai^er, we had time to 
examine into the occasion of this fray ; and, indeed, our super- 
cargo, who had been often in these parts, put me upon it; for he 
. said he was sure the inhabitams would not have touched us after 
we had made a truce, if we had not done something to provoke them 
to it At length it came out that an old woman, who had come 
to sell us some milk, had brought it within our poles, and a young 
woman with her, who also brought some roots or herbs; and 
while the old woman (whether she was mother to the young 
woman or no they could not tell) was selling us the milk, one of 
our men offered some rudeness to the wench that was with her, 
at which the ok} woman made a great noise : however, the sea- 
man would not quit his prize, but carried her out of the old so- 
man's sight among the trees, it being almost dark : the old woman 
went away without her, and, as we may suppose, made an outcry 
among the people she came from ; who, upon notice, raised this 
great army upon us in three or four hours ; and it was great odds 
but we had all been destroyed. 

One of our men was killed with a lance thrown at him just at 
the beginning of the attack, as he sallied out of the tent they had 
Qiade : the rest came off free, all but the fellow who was the oc- 
casion of all the mischief^ who paid dear enough for his black 
mistress, for we could not hear what became of him a great while. 
We lay upon the shore two days after, though the wind presented, 
and made signals for him, and made our boat sail up shore and 
down shore several leagues, but in vain, so we were obliged to give 
him over ; and if he alone had suffered for it, the loss had been less. 

I could not satisfy myself, howeyer, without venturing on shore 
once more, to try if I could learn smy thing of him or them ; it was 
the third night after the action th^tl had a great mind to learn, if 
I could by any means, what mischief we liad done, and how the - 
game stood on the Indians' side. I was careful to do it in the 
dark, lest we should be attacked again ; but I ought, indeed, to 
have been sure that the men I went with had been under my com- 
mand, before I engaged in a thing so hazardous and mischievous 
as I was brought into by it, without design. 

We took twenty as stout fellows with us as any in the ship, 
besides the supercargo and myself, and we landed two hours bo- 
fore midnight, at the same place where the Indians stood drawn . 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



^4 AnTKNTURim nw 

up in the evening before : I landed here, oecause my design, aa 
( have said, was chiefly to aree if they had quitted the field, and 
if they had left any marks behind them of the mischief we had 
done them ; and I thought if we could surprise one tnr two of 
them, perhaps we might get our raam again, by way of excf^mge. 

We landed without any noise, and divided our men into two 
bodies, whereof the boatswain commanded one and I the oether. 
We neither saw nor heard anybody stir when we landed : imd 
we marched up, one body at a distance from the. o^r, to the 
place ; but at first could see noUiing, it being very dark ; till by- 
and-by our boatswain, who led the first party, stumbled and Ml 
over a dead body. This made them halt am^iile ; for knovnng by 
the circumstances that they were at the place where the Indians 
had stood, they waited for my cbmmg up there. We concluded 
to halt till the moon began to rise, which we knew would be in 
less than an hour, when we could easily discern tixe havoc we had 
made among them. We told thirty-two bodies upon the ground, 
whereof two were not quite dead ; some had an arm, and some a 
leg shot ofif, and one his head ; those that were wounded, wo sup- 
pose, they had carried away. 

When we had made, as I thought, a full discovery of all we 
could come to the knowledge of, I was resolvod for going on 
board ; but the boatswain snd his party sent me word that they 
were i^esolved to make a visit to the Indian town, where these 
dogs, as they called them, dwelt, and asked me to go along with 
them ; and if they could find lliem, as they still fancied they 
should, they did not doubt of getting a good booty ; and it might 
be they inight find Tom Jeffiry there ; that was Uie man's niime 
we had lost. 

HadUiey sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well enough what 
answer to have given them ; for I should have commanded them 
instantly on board, knowing it was not a hazard fit for us to run, 
who had a ship and a ship-loading in our charge, and a voyage to 
make which depended very much upon the lives of the men ; but 
as they sent me word they were resolved to go, and only asked 
• me and my company to go along with them, I positively refused 
it, and rose up, for I was sitting on the ground, in order to go to 
the boat. One or two of the men began to importune ine to go ; 
and when I refused, began to grumble, and isay that they were 
not under my conunand, and they would go. Come, Jack, says 
one of the men, will you go With me ? Til go for one. Jack 
said he would, — and then another — and, in a word, they all: left 
me but one, whom I persuaded to stay, and a boy left in the boat. 
So the supercargo and I, with the third man, went back to the 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 385 

bout, where we told them we would stay for them, and take care 
to take in as many of them as should be left ; for I told them it 
wa« a mad thing they were going about, and supposed most of 
them would run the fate of Tom Jeffry. 

They told me, like seamen, they would warrant it they would 
come off again, and they would take care, &c. ; so away they 
went. I entreated them to consider the ship and the voyage, that 
their lives were not their own, and that they were intrusted with 
the voyage, in some measure ; that if they miscarried, the ship 
might be lost for want of their help, and that they could not an- 
swer for it to God or man. But I might as well have talked to 
the mainmast of the ship ; they were mad upon their journey, only 
they gave me good words, and begged I would not be angry ; that 
they did not doubt but they would be back again in about an hour 
at farthest ; for the Indian town, they said, was not above half a 
mile off, though they found it above two miles before they got to it. 

Well, tb^y all went away ; and though the attempt was despe- 
rate, and such as none but madmen would have gone about, yet, 
to give them their due, they went aljout it as warily as boldly ; 
they were gallantly armed, for they had every man a fusee or 
musket, a bayonet, and a pistol ; some of them had broad cut- 
lasses, some of them had hangers, and the boatswain and tVo 
more had poleaxes ; besides all which, they had among them thir- 
teen haad-grenadoes : bolder fellows and better provided never 
went about any wicked work in the world. 

When they went out, their chief design was plunder, and they 
were in mighty hopes of finding gold there ; but a circumstance, 
which none of them were aware of, set them on fire with revenge, 
and made devils of them all. When they came to the few Indian 
houses which they thought had been the town, which was not 
above half a mile off, they were under a great disappointment, for 
there were not above twelve or thirteen houses ; and where the 
town was, or how big, they knew not. They consulted, therefore, 
what to do, and were some time before they could resolve ; for if 
they fell upon these, they must cut all their throats, and it was 
ten to one but some of them might escape, it being in the night, 
though the moon was up ; and if one escaped, he would run and 
raise all the town, so they should have a whole army upon them : 
again, on the other hand, if they went away and left those un- 
touched, for the people were all asleep, they could not tell which 
way to look for the town : however, the last was the best advice ; 
so they resolved to leave them, and look for the town as well as 
they c^uld. They went on ^ little way, and found a cow tied to 
a tree ; tli.^ hey preseatly concluded, would be a good guide to 

33 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



A 



380 ADTKllTURKt OP 

them ; lor, they said, the cow certainly belonged to the town bs- 
fore them, or to the town behind them ; and if they untied her, 
they should see which way she went ; if she went back, hey 
had nothing to say to her [ but, if she went forward, they could 
follow her : so they cut the cord, which was made of twisted 
fiags, and the cow went on before them, directly to the town ; 
which, as they reported, consisted of above two hundred houses 
or huts, and in some of these they found several families linng 
together. 

Here they found all in silence, as profoundly secure as sleep 
could make them : and, first, they called another council, to con- 
sider what they had to do ; and, in ?. word, they resolved to divide 
themselves into three bodies, and so set three houses on fire in 
three parts of the town ; and as the men came out, to seize them 
and bind them (if any resisted, they need not be asked what to do 
then), and so to search the rest of the houses for plunder ; but 
they resolved to march silently first through the town, and see 
what dimensions it viras of, and if they might venture upon it or no. 

They did so, and desperately resolved that they would venture 
upon them : but while they were animating one another to tiie 
work, three of them, who wete a little before the rest, called out 
aloud to them, and told them that they had found Tom Jef¥ry : 
they all ran up to the place, where they found the poor fellow 
hang^g up naked by one arm, and his throat cut. There was an 
Indian house just by the tree, where Jhey found sixteen or seven- 
teen of the principal Indians, who had been concerned in the firay 
with us before, and two or three of them wounded with our shot; 
and our men found they were awake, and talking one to another 
in that house, but knew not their number. 

The sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged them, as 
before, that" they swore to one another they would be revenged, 
and that not an Indism that came into their hands should have 
any quarter ; and to work they went immediately, and yet not so 
madly as might be expected from the rage and fury they were in. 
Their first care was to gr^t something that would soon take fire, 
but, after a little search; they found that would be to no purpose ; 
for most of the houses were low, and thatched with flags and 
rushes, of which the country is full ; so they presently made some 
wildfire, as we call it, by wetting a little powder in the palm of 
their hands ; and in a quarter of an hour they set the town on fire 
in four or five places, and particularly that house where the In- 
dians were not gone to bed. 

As soon as the fire began to blaze, the poor frightened crea- 
tures began to rush out to save their lives^ but met with their fM 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSOir CRIT90V. 9&J 

In the attempt ; and especially at the door, where they drove them 
back ; the boatswain himself killing one or two with his poleaxe ; 
the house being large and many in it, he did not care to go in, 
but called for a hand^renado, and threw it among them, which at 
first frightened them, but, when it burst, made such havoc among 
them, that they cried out in a hideous manner. In short, most of 
the Indians who were in the open part of the house were killed 
or hurt with the grenade, except two or three who pressed to the 
door, which the boatswain and two more kept, with their bayonets 
on the muzzles of their pieces, and despatched all that came in 
their way : but there was another apartment in the house, where 
the prince, or king, or whatever he was, and several others were ; 
and these were kept in till the house, which was by this time all 
in a light flame, fell in upon them, and tliey were smothered to> 
gether. 

All this while they fired not a gun, because they would not 
waken the people ftster than they could master them ; but the 
fire began to waken them fast enough, and our fellows were glad 
to keep a little together in bodies ; for the fire grew so raging, 
an the houses being made of light combustible stuff, that they 
could hardly bear the street between them ; and their business 
was to follow the fire, for the surer execution : as fast as the fire 
either forced the people out of those houses which were burning, ^ 
or frightened them out of others, our people were ready at their 
doors to knock them on the head, still calling and hallooing one 
to another to remember Tom Jeffry. 

While this was doing, I must confess I was very uneasy, and 
especially when I saw the flames of the town, which, it being 
night, seemed to be just by me. My nephew, the captain, who 
was roused by his men, seeing such a fire, was very uneasy, not 
knowing what the matter was, or what danger I was in, especially 
hearing the guns too, for by this time they began to use their fire- 
arms ; a thousand thoughts oppressed his mind concerning me 
and the supercargo, what would become of us ; and, at last, 
though he could ill spare any more men, yet, not knowing what 
exigence we might be in, he takes another boat, and with thirteen 
men and himself comes on shore to me. 

He was surprised to see me and the supercargo in the boat, 
. with no more than two men ; and though he was glad that we 
were well, yet he was in the same impatience with us to know 
what was doing ; for the noise continued, and the flame increased; 
in short, it was next to an impossibility for any man iff the world 
to restrain their curiosity to know what had happened, or their 
concern foi the safety of the men : in a word, the captain told me 



Digitized 



by Google 



SM ADTBimHUU OF 

be would go and help his men, let what would come. I argued 
with him, at I did before with the men, the safety of the ship, 
the danger of the voyage, the interest of the owners and mer* 
chants, &a, and told him I and the two men would go, and only 
see if we could, at a distance, learn what was like to be the oTont, 
and come back and tell him. It was all one to talk to my 
nephew, as it was to talk to the rest before ; he would go, he 
said ; and he only wished he had left but ten men in the ship ; 
for he could not think of having his me^'n lost for want of help ; 
he had rather lose the ship, the voyage, and his life and all; and 
away he went 

I was no more able to stay behind now than I was to per- 
suade them not to go ; so« in short, the captain ordered two ami 
to row back the pinnace, and fetch twelve men more, leaving tiie 
longboat at an anchor ; and that when they came back, six men 
should keep the two boats, and six more come after us : so ^at 
he left only sixteen men in the ship ; for the whole ship^s com- 
pany consisted of sixty-five men, whereof two were lost in the 
late quarrel which brought this mischief on. 

Being now on the march, you may be sure we felt little of the 
ground we trod on ; and being guided by the fire, we kept no 
path, but wem directly to the place of the flame. If the noise of 
the guns was surprising to us before, the cries of the poor people 
were now quite of another nature, and filled us with horror. I 
must confess I was never at the sacking a city, or at the taking 
a town by storm. I had heard of Oliver Cromwell taking Drog- 
heda, in Ireland, and killing man, woman, and child ; and I had 
read of Count Tilly sacking the city of Magdeburg, and cutting 
the throats of twenty-two thousand of all sexes ; but I never had 
an idea of the thing itself before, nor is it possible to describe it, 
or the horror that was upon our minds at hearing it. However, 
we went on, and at length came to the town, though there was no 
entering the streets of it for the fire. The first object we met 
with was the ruins of a hut or house, or rather the ashes of it, for 
the house was consumed ; and just before it, plain enough to be 
seen by the light 'of the fire, lay four men and three women 
killed, and, as we thought, one or two more lay in the heap among 
the fire ; in short, there were such instances of rage aUogether 
barbarous, and of a fury something beyond what was human, that 
we thought it impossible our men could be guilty of it ; or if they 
were the authors of it, we thought they ought to be every one of 
them put to the worst of deaths. But this was not all : we saw 
the fire incieased forward, and the cry went on just as the fire 
went on; so that we were in the utmost confusion. We ad- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBIMSON CRUSOC. B89 . 

fanced a little way. farther ; and, behold, to our astonifthment^ 
three naked women, and crying in a most dreadful manner, came 
flying as if they had wings, and after them sixteen or seventeen 
men, natives, in the same terror and consternation, with three of 
our English butchers in the rear; who, when they could not 
overtake them, fired in among them, and one that was killed by 
their shot fell down in our sight. When the rest saw us, believ- 
ing us to be their enemies, and 4hat we would murder them as 
well as those that pursued them, they set up a most dreadful 
shriek, especially the women, and two of them f^ll down, as if 
already dead, with th^ fnght. 

My very soul shrunk within me, and my blood ran chill in my 
veins, when I saw this: and I believe, had the three English 
sailors that pursued them come on, I had made our men kill them 
all : however, we took some ways to let the poor flying creatures 
know that we would not hurt them ; and immediately they came 
up to us, and kneeling down with their hands lifted up, made pit- 
eous lamentation to us to save them, which we let them know we 
would ; whereupoh they crept all together in a huddle close be- 
hind us, as for protection. I left my men drawn up together, and 
charging them to hurt nobody, but, if possible, to get at some of 
our people, and see vi4iat devil it was possessed them, and what 
they intended to do, and to command ^em off; assuring them 
that if they stayed till daylight^ they would have a hundred thou- 
sand men about their ears : I say I left them, and went among 
those flying people, taking only two of our men with me ; and 
there was indeed a piteous spectacle among &em ; some of them 
had their feet terribly burnt, vrith trampling and running through 
tlM fire, others their hands burnt f one of the women had fallen 
down in the fire, and was very much burnt before she could get 
out again ; and two or three of the men had cuts in their backs 
and thighs, from our men pursuing ; and another wza shot through 
the body, and died while I was there. 

I would fain have learned what the occasion of all this was, 
but I could not understand one word they said ; though, by signs, 
I perceived some of them knew not what was the occasion them- 
selves. I was so terrified in my thoughts at this outrageous at- 
tempt, that I could not stay there, but went back to my own 
men, and resolved to go into the middle of the town, through the 
fire, or whatever might be in the way, and put an end to it, cost 
what it would : accordingly, as I came back to my men, I told 
them my resolution, and commanded them to follow me ; when 
at the very moment came four of our men, with the boatswain at 
their head, roving over heaps of bodies they had killed, all cover* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



890 ADYENTUBn 0» 

ed with blood aad dust, as if they wanted mote people to i 
ere, when our men hallooed to them as loud as they could halloo; 
and with much ado one of them made them hear, so that they 
knew who we were, and came up to us. 

As soon as the boatswain saw us, he set up a halloo like a 
shout of triumph, for having, as lie thought, more he^ come ; and 
without waiting to hear me. Captain, says he, noble captain ! 1 
am glad you are oome ; we are not half done yet : villanous hell- 
hound dogs ! 1^11 kill as many of them as poor Tom has hairs 
upon his head : we have sworn to spare none of them ; well 
root out the very nation of them from the dlirth : and thus he ran 
on, out of breath too with action, and would nc^ give us leave to 
speak a word. 

At last, raising my voice, that I might silence him a little, Bar- 
barous dog! said I, what are you doing? I won't have one 
creature touched more, upon pain of death : I charge you, upon 
your life, to stop your hands, and stand still here, or you are a 
dead man this minute. Why, sir, says he, do you know what 
you do, or what they have done ? If you want a reason for what 
we have done, come hither ; and with that he showed me the 
poor fellow hanging, with his throat cut. 

I confess I was urged then myself, and at another time would 
have been forward enough ; but I thought they had carried their 
rage too far, and remembered Jacob's words to his sons Suneon 
and Levi — " Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce ; and their 
wrath, for it was cruel." But I had now a new task upon my 
hands ; for when the men I carried with me saw the sight, as 1 
had done, I had as much to do to restrain them as I should have 
had with the others ; nay, my nephew himself fell in with them, 
and told me, in their hearing, that he was only concerned for fear 
of the men being overpowered ; and as to the pec^le, he thought 
not one of them ought to live ; for they had all glutted ^emselves 
with the murder of the poor man, and that they ought to be used 
like murderers; upon these words, away ran eight of my men, 
with the boatswain and his crew, to complete their bloody work ; 
and I, seeing it quite out of my power to restrain them, came 
away pensive and sad ; for I could not bear the sight, much less 
the horrible noise and cries of the poor wretches that fell into 
their hands. 

I got nobody to come back with me but the supercargo and 
two men, and with these walked back to the boat. It was a 
very great piece of folly in me, I confess, to venture back as it 
were alone ; for as it began now to be almost day, and the alarm 
had run over the country, there stood about forty mec, armed 



i 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 391 

with lances and bows, at the little place where the twelve or thir< 
teen houses stood, mentioned before ; but by accident I missed 
the place, and came directly to the seaside ; and by the time I 
got to the seaside it was broad day ; immediately I took the pin- 
nace and went on board, and sent her back to assist the men in 
what might happen. 

I observed, about the time that I came to the boat side, that 
the fire was pretty well out, and the noise abated ; but in about 
half an hour after I got on board, I heard a volley of our men's 
fiie>arms, and saw a great smoke : this, as I understood after- 
ward, was our men falling upon the men who, as I said, stood 
at the few houses on the way, of whom they killed sixteen or 
seventeen, and set all the houses on fire, but did not meddle with 
the women or children. 

By the time the men got to the shore again with the pinnace, 
octr men began to appear ; they came dropping in, not in two 
bodies as they went, but straggling here and there in such a man- 
ner, that a small force of resolute men might have cut them all 
off. But the dread of them was upon the whole country ; and 
the men were surprised, and so frightened, that I believe a hun- 
dred of them would have fled at the sight of but five of our men ; 
nor in all this terrible action was there a man that made any con- 
siderable defence ; they were so surprised between the terror of 
the fire and the sudden attack of our men in the dark, that they 
knew not which way to turn themselves ; for if they fled one 
way they were met by one party ; if back again, by another ; so 
that they were everywhere knocked down : nor did any of our 
men receive the least hurt, except one that sprained his foot, and 
another that had one of his hands burnt. 

I was very angry with my nephew, the captain, and, indeed, 
with all the men, in my mind, but with him in particular, as well 
for his acting so out of his duty as commander of the ship, and 
having the charge of the voyage upon him, as in his prompting, 
rather than cooling, the rage of his blind men, in so bloody and 
cruel an enterprise. My nephew answered me very respectfiilly, 
but told me that when he saw the body of the poor seaman whom 
they had murdered in so cruel and barbarous a manner, he was 
not master of himself, neither could he govern his passion ; he 
owned he should not have done so, as he was commander of the, 
ship ; but as he was a man, and nature moved him, he could not 
bear it. As for the rest of the men, they were not subject to me 
at all, and they knew it well enough ; so they took no notice of 
my dislike. 

The next day we set sail, so we never heard any more of it 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



892 AOTBMTURK8 Of 

Our men differed in the account of the number they had killed ; 
but, according to the best of their accounts, put all together, they 
killed or destroyed about one hundred and fifty people, men, wo- 
men, and children, and left not a house standing in the town. 
As for the poor fellow Tom Jeffry, as he was quite dead (for his 
throat was so cut that his head was half off), it would do him no 
service to bring him away : so they only took him down from the 
tree where he was hanging by one hand. 

However just our men thought this action, I was against them 
in it, and I always, after that time, told them God would blast the 
voyage ; for I looked upon all the blood they shed that night to 
be murder in them : for though it is true that they had killed Tom 
Jefiry, yet Jeffry was the aggressor, had broken the truce, and had 
violated or debauched a young woman of theirs, who came down 
to them innocently, and on the faith of tho public capitulation. 

The boatswain defended this quarrel when we were afterward 
on board. He said it was true that we seemed to break the truce, 
but really had not ; and that the war was begun the night before 
by the natives themselves, who had shot at us, and killed one of 
our men without any just provocation ; so that as we were in a 
capacity to fight them now, we might also be in a capacity to do 
ourselves justice upon them in an extraordinary manner; that 
though the poor man had taken a little liberty with the wench, he 
ought not to have been murdered, and that in such a villanous 
manner ; and that they did nothing but what was just, and what 
the laws of God allowed to be done to murderers. 

One would think this should have been enough to have warned 
us against going on shore among heathens and barbarians : but 
it is impossible to make mankind wise but at their own expense ; 
and their experience seems to be always of most use to them 
when it is dearest bought. 

We were now bound to tlie gulf of Persia, and from thence to 
the coast of Coromandel, only to touch at Surat : but the chief of 
the supercargoes design lay at the bay of Bengal ; where, if he 
missed his busmess outward-bound, he was to go up to China, 
and return to the coast as he came home. 

The first disaster that befell us was in the gulf of Persia, where 
five of our men venturing on shore on the Arabian side of the 
gulfi were surrciinded by the Arabians, and either all killed or 
carried away into slavery ; the rest of the boat's crew were not 
able to rescue them, and had but just time to get off their boat. 
I began to upbraid them with the just retribution of Heaven in 
this case : but the boatswain very warmly told me, he thought I 
went farther in my censures than I could show any warrant foi 



i 



Digitized 



by Google 



ROBINSON CR17S0K. , 393 

m Scripture ; and referred to Luke liii., 4, where our Saviour in- 
timates that those men on whom the tower of Siloam fell were 
not sinners above all the Galileans ; but that which put me to 
silence in the case was, that not one of these five men who were 
now lost were of those who went on shore to the massacre of 
Madagascar, so I always called it, though our men could not bear 
to hear the word massacre with any patience. 

But my frequent preaching to them on the subject had worse 
consequences than I expected ; and the boatswain, who had been 
the head of the attempt, came up boldly to me one time, and told 
me he found that I brought that affair continually upon the stage ; 
that I made unjust reflections upon it, and had used the men very 
ill on that account, and himself in particular ; that as I was but 
ft passenger, and had no command in the ship, or concern in the 
voyage, they were not obliged to bear it ; that they did not know 
but I might have some ill design in my head, and perhaps to call 
them to an account for it when they came to England ; and that, 
Jtherefore, unless I would resolve to have done with it, and also 
not to concern myself any farther with him, or any of his affairs, 
he would leave the ship ; for he did not think it was safe to sail 
with me among them. 

I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and then told 
him, that I confessed I had all along opposed the massacre of 
Madagascar, and that I had, on all occasions, spoken my mind 
freely about it, though not more upon him than any of the rest ; 
that as to having no command in the ship, that was true ; nor did 
I exercise any authority, only took the liberty of speaking my 
mind in things which publicly concerned us all ; and what con- 
cern I had in the voyage was none of his business ; that I was a 
considerable owner in the ship ; in that claim, I conceived I had 
a right to speak even farther than I had done, and would not be 
accountable to him or any one else ; and began to be a little 
warm with him. He made but little reply to me at that time, and 
I thought the affair had been over. We were at this time in the 
road at Bengal ; and being willing to see the place, I went on 
shore with the supercargo, in the ship's boat, to divert myself; 
and towards evening was preparing to go on board, when one of 
the men came to me, and told me he would not have me trouble 
myself to come down to the boat, for they had orders not to carry 
me on board any more. Any one may guess what a surprise 1 
was in at so insolent a message ; and I asked the man who bade 
him deliver that message to me ? He told me the cockswain. 
I said no more to the fellow, but bade him let them know he had 
delt^ered his message, and that I had given him no answer to it 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



894 ADvcNTuau or 

I immediately went and found out the supercargo, and told him 
the story ; adding, what I presently foresaw, that there would be 
a mutiny in the ship ; and entreated him to go immediately on 
board the ship in an Indian boat, and acquaint the captain of it 
But I might have spared this intelligence, for before I bad spoken 
to him on shore the matter was eflected on board. The boat- 
swain, the gunner, the carpenter, and all the inferior officers, as 
soon as I was gone off in the boat, came up and desired to speak 
with the captain ; and there the boatswain, making a long ha- 
rangue, and repeating all he had said to me, told the captain, in 
a few words, that as I was ih>w gone peaceably on shore, they 
were loath to use any violence with me, which, if I had not gone 
on shore, they would otherwise have done, to oblige me to have 
gone ; they therefore thought fit to tell him, tliat as they shipped 
themselves to serve in the slup under his command, they would 
perform it well and faithfully ; but if I would not quit the ship, 
or the captain oblige me to quit it, they would all leave the ship, 
and sail no farther with him ; and at Uiat word all he turned his 
face towards the mainmast, which was, it seems, the signal agreedT 
on between them, at which all the seamen, being got together 
there, cried out. One and all ! one and all ! 

My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, and of great 
presence of mind ; and though he was surprised, you may be 
sure, at the thing, yet he told them calmly that he would consider 
of the matter; but that he could do nothing in it till he had 
spoken to me about it He used some arguments with them to 
show them the unreasonableness and injustice of the thing : but it 
was all in vain ; they swore, and shook hands round before his 
face, that they would all go on shore, unless he would engage to 
them not to suffer me to come any more on board the ship. 

This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obligation to 
me, and did not know how I might take it : so he began to talk 
smartly to them ; told them that I was a very considerable owner 
of the ship, and that, in justice, he could not put me out of my 
own house ; that this was next door to serving me as the famous 
pirate Kidd had done, who made a mutiny in the ship, set the 
captain on shore on an uninhabited island, and ran away with 
the ship ; that, let them go into what ship they would, if ever the^ 
came to England again, it would cost them very de^r ; that the 
ship was mine,^ and that he could not put me out of it ; and that 
he would rather lose the ship and the voyage too than disoblige 
me so much ; so they might do as they pleased : however, he 
would go on shore and talk with me, and invited the boatswain 
to go with him, and perhaps they might accommodatA the matter 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



B0BIN80N CBUSOB. 39(1 

With me. But they all rejected the proposal, and said they 
would have nothing to do with me any more ; and if I came on 
board, they would all go on shore. Well, said the captain, if 
you are all of this mind, let me go on shore and talk with him. 
So away he came to me with this account, a little after the mes- 
sage had been brought to me from the cockswain. 

I was yery glad to see my nephew, I must confess ; for I was 
not without apprehensions that they would confine him by vio- 
lence, set sail, and run away with the ship r and then I had been 
stripped naked in a remote country, having nothing to help my- 
self; in short, I had been in a worse case than when I was 
alone in the isla)[id. But they had not come to that lengUi, it 
seems, to my satisfaction ; and when my nephew told me what 
they had said to him, and how they had sworn and shook hand$ 
that they would, one and all, leave the ship if I was suffered to 
come on board, I told him he should not be concerned at it at 
aU, for I would stay on shore : I only desired he would take care 
and send me all my necessary things on. shore^ and leave me a 
sufficient sum of money, and I would find my way to England 
as well as I could. 

This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew, but there 
was no way to help it but to comply : so, in short, he went on 
board the ship again, and satisfied the men that his uncle had 
yielded to their importunity, and had sent for his goods from on 
board the ship ; so that the matter was over in a few hours, the 
men returned to their duty, and I began to consider what course 
I should steer. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SECTION XLll. 

KBKTS WITH AN BNOLtSH MKBCHAlfT WITH WHOM HV MAKKf SOME TKADIKl 
VOYA0i.S.— THBY AEB MISTAKEN FOB PIKATBB.— TANQUI8H THBIK FOB 
8UBBS. — VOYAOB TO CHINA. — BENOOUNTBB WITH THB COCHllff-CUINBSE.— 
ISLAND OP FORMOSA. — OULF OP NANQUIN.— APPEEHBNSIONS OP PALLING 
INTO THE HANDS OP THE DUTCH. 

I WAS now alone in the most remote part of the world, as I 
think I may call it, for I was near three thousand leagues by sea 
farther off from England than I was at my island ; only, it is 
true, I might travel here by land over the great Mogul's country 
to Surat, might go from thence to Bassora by sea, up the gulf of 
Persia, and take the way of the caravans, over the Desert of 
Arabia, to Aleppo and Scanderoon ; from thence by sea again to 
Italy, and so overland into France ; and this put together might 
at least be a full diameter of the globe, or more. 

I had another way before me, which was to wait for some 
English ships, which were coining to Bengal from Achin, on the 
Island of Sumatra, and get passage on board them for England. 
But as I came hither without any concern with the English East 
India Company, so it would be diflScult to go from hence without 
their license, unless with great favour of the captains of the 
ships, or the Company's factors, and to both I was an utter 
stranger. 

Here I had the mortification to see the ship set sail without 
me ; a treatment I think a man in my circumstances scarce 
ever met with, except when pirates running away with the ship, 
and setting those that would not agree with their villany on shore. 
Indeed, this was next door to it, both ways ; how^ver, my nephew 
left me two servants, or rather one companion and one servant ; 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBUfSOlV CttUSOK. &97 

th« first was clerk to the purser, whom he engaged to go with 
me, and the other was his own servant. I took me also a good 
lodging in the house of an Englishwoman, where several mer- 
chants lodged, some French, two Italians, or rather Jews, and 
one Englishman; here I was handsomely enough entertained; 
and, that I might not be said to run rashly upon any thing, 1 
stayed here above nine months, considering what course to take, 
and how to manage myself. I had some English goods with 
me of value, and a considerable sum of money ; my nephew 
furnishing me vnth a ^ousand pieces of eight, and a letter of 
credit for more, if I had occasion, that I might not be straitened, 
whatever might happen. 

I quickly disposed of my goods to advsmtage, and, as I origi 
nally intended, I bought here some very good diamonds, which, 
of all other things, were the most proper for me in my present 
circumstances ; because I could always carry my whole estate 
about me. 

After sk long stay here, and many proposals made for my return 
to England, but none falling out to my mind, the English^ mer- 
chant who lodged with me, and whom I had contracted an inti- 
mate acquaintance with, came to me one morning. Countryman, 
says he, I have a project to communicate to you, which, as it 
suits with my Noughts, may, for aught I know, suit with yours 
also, when you shall have thoroughly considered it. Here we 
are posted, you by accident, and I by my own choice, in a part 
of the world very remote from our own country ; but it is in a 
country where, b^ us who understand trade and business, a great 
deal of money is to be got. If you will put one thousand pounds 
to my one thousand pounds, we will hire a ship here, the first 
we can get to our minds ; you shall be captain, I'll be merchant, 
and we'll go a trading voyage to China : for what should we 
stand still for % The whole world is in motion, rolling round and 
round ; all the creatures of God, heavenly bodies and earthly, 
are busy and diligent ; why should we be idle ? There are no 
drones in the world but men ; why should we be of that number t 

I liked this proposal very well, and the more because it seemed 
to be expressed vdth so much good-will, and in so friendly a 
manner. I will not say but that I might, by my loose, unhinged 
circumstances, be the fitter to embrace a proposal for trade, or 
indeed any thing else ; whereas, otherwise, trade was none oi 
my element. However, I might perhaps say with some truth, 
that if trade was not my element, rambling was, and no propose) 
for seeing any part of the world which I had never seen before 
coold possibly come amiss to me. 

34 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



S98 40TiciiTURBt or 

It was, however, some time before we could get a ship to om 
minds, and when we had got a vessel, it was not easy to get 
English sailors : that is to say, so many as were necessary to 
govern the voyage and manage the sailors which we should pick 
up there. Afier some time we got a mate, a boatswain, and a 
gunner, EngLsh; a Dutch carpenter, and three foremast-men. 
With these we found we could do well enough, having Indian 
seamen, such as they were, to make up. 

There are so many travellers who have wrote the history of 
their voyages and travels this way, that it would be very little 
diversion to anybody to give a long account of the places we 
went to, and the people who inhabit there ; these things I leave 
to others, and refer the reader to those journals and travels of 
Englishmen of which many I find are published, and more prom- 
ised, every day ; it is enough for me to tell you that we made 
this voyage to Achin, in the Island of Sumatra, and from thence 
to Siam, where we exchanged some of our wares for opium and 
some arrack ; the first a commodity which bears a great price 
among the Chinese, and which, at that time, was much wanted 
there. In a word, we went up to Suskan, made a very great 
voyage, were eight months out, and returned to Bengal ; and I 
was very well satisfied with my adventure. I observe that our 
people in England often admire how o£&cers which ^e Company 
send into India, and the merchants which generally stay there, 
get such very great estates as they do, and sometimes come 
home worth sixty or seventy thousand po^^ids at a time ; but it 
is no wonder, or at least we shall see so much farther into it, 
when we consider the innumerable ports and places where they 
have a free commerce, that it will be none ; and much less it 
will be 80 when we consider that at those places and ports where 
the English ships come, there is such great and c<Mistant demands 
for the growth of all other countries, that there is a certain vent 
for the returns, as well as a market abroad for the goods csoried 
out. 

In short, we made a very good voyage, and I got so n^och 
money by my first adventure, and such an insight into the method 
of getting more, that had I been twenty years younger, I should 
have been tempted to have stayed here, and sought no farther for 
making any fortune ; but what was all this to a man upwards of 
threescore, that was rich enough, and came abroad more in obe- 
dience to a restless desire of seeing the world than a covetous 
desire. of gaining^ by it? And, indeed, I think it is with gre^ 
justice I now call it restless desire, for it was so. When I wa« 
at home, I was restless to go abroad : and when I was abroad ^ 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBIMSON CR080V. 888 

was restless to be at home. I say, what was this gain to me I 
I was rich enough already, nor had I any uneasy desires about 
getting more money ;. and therefore the profit of the voyage to me 
was of no great force fcnr the prompting me forward to farUier un- 
dertakings ; hence I thought by this voyage I had made no prog- 
ress at all, because I was come back, as I miglit call it, to tho 
place from whence I came, as to a home : whereas my eye, 
which, like that >vhich Solomon speaks of, was never satis^d 
with seeing, was still desirous of wandering and seeing more. 
I was come into a part of the wodd which I was never in before, 
and that part, in particular, which I had heard much of, and was 
resolved to see as much of it as I could ; and then I thought I 
might say I had seen all the worid that was worth seeing. 

♦But my fellow-traveller and I had different notions : I do not 
name this to insist on my own, for I acknowledge his were the 
most just, and the most suited to the end of a merchant's life ; 
who, when he is abroad upon adventures, it is his wisdom to 
stick to that, SLS the best ^ng for him, which he is like to get the 
most money by. My new friend kept himself to the nature of 
the thing, and would have been content to have gone, like a car- 
rier's horse, always to the same inn, backward and forward, pro- 
vided he could, as he called it, find his acconnt in it. On the 
other hand, mine was the notion of a mad, rambling boy, that 
never cares to see a thing twice over. But this was not all : I 
bad a kind of impatience upon me to be nearer home, and yet 
the most unsettled resolution hnaginable which way to go. In 
the interval of these consultations, my friend, who was always 
upon the search for business, proposed another voyage to me 
among the Spice Islands, and to bring home a loading of cloves 
from the Manillas, or thereabouts ; places, indeed, where the 
Dutch trade, but islands belonging partly to the Spani^^s; 
though we went not so far, but to some other, where they have 
not the whole power, as they have at Batavia, Ceylon, &c. 

We were not long in preparing for this voyage ; the chief dif- 
ficulty was in bringing me to come into it; however, at last, 
nothing else offering, and finding that really stirring about and 
trading, the profit being sa great, and, as I may say, certain, had 
more pleasure in it, and had more satisfaction to my mind, than 
sitting still, which, to me especially, was the unhappiest paurt of 
life, I resolved on this voyage too, which we made very success- 
fully, touching at Borneo, and several islands whose names I do 
not remember, and came home in about five months. We sold 
our spice, which was chiefiy cloves and some nutmegs, to ths 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



400 4DTEirnjRB8 or 

Persian merchants, who carried thera away to the gulf; and 
making near five of one, we really got a great deal of money. 

My friend, when we made up this account, smiled at me ' 
Well now, said he, with a sort of agreeable insult upon my indo- 
lent temper, is not this better than walking about here, like a 
man of notiiing to do, and spending our time in staring at the 
nonsense and ignorance of the Pagans ? — ^Why, truly, says I, my 
firiend, I think it is, and I begin to be a convert to the principles 
of merchandising ; but I must tell you, said I, by the way, you 
do not knt>w what I am doing ; for if I once conquer my back- 
wardness, and embark heartily, as old as I am, I shall harass 
you up and down the world tiU I tire you ; for I shaU pursue it 
so eagerly, I shall never let you lie still. 

But, to be short with my speculations, a little while after this 
there came in a Dutch ship from Batavia ; she was a coaster, not 
a European trader, of about two hundred tons burden ; the men, 
as they pretended, having been so sickly, that the captsun had 
not hands enough to go to sea with, he lay by at Bengal ; and 
having, it seems, got naoney enough, or being willing, for other 
reasons, to go for Europe, he gave public notice he would sell 
his ship. This came to my ears before my new partner heard 
of it, and I had a great mind to buy it ; so I went to him, and told 
him of it. He considered awhile, for he was no rash man neither ; 
but musing some time, he replied. She is a little too big ; but, 
however, we will have her. Accordingly, we bought the ship, 
and agreeing with the master, we paid ibr her, and took posses- 
sion. When we had done so, we resolved to entertain the men, 
if we could, to join them with those We had, for the pursuing our 
business ; but on a sudden, ^ey having received, not their wages, 
but their share of the money, as we afterward learned, not one of 
them was to be found ; we inquired much about them, and at 
length were told that they were all gone together by land to Agra, 
the great city of the Mogul's residence, and from thence to travel 
to Surat, and go by sea to the gulf of Persia. 

Nothing had so much troubled me a good while as that I should 
miss the opportunity of going with them ; for such a ramble, I 
thought, and in such company as would both have guarded and 
diverted me, would have suited mightily with my great design ; 
and I should have both seen the world and gone homewards too : 
but I was much better satisfied a few days after, when I came to 
know what sort of fellows they were ; for, in short, their history 
was, that this man they called captain was die gunner only, not 
the commander ; that they had been a trading voyage, in which 
they had been attacked on shore by some of the Malays, who had 



Digitized 



by Google 



mOBIN9(»r ORV80E. 401 

IdUed the captain and three of his men ; and that after the cap- 
tain was killed, these men, eleven in number, had resolved to run 
away with the ship, which they did, and brought her to Bengal, 
leaving the mate and five men more on shore ; of whom hereafter. 

Well, let them get the ship how they would, we came honestly 
by her, as we thought, though we did not, I confess, examine into 
things as exactly as we ought ; for we never inquiied any thing 
of the seamen, who would certainly have faltered in their account, 
contradicted one another, and perhaps contradicted themselves ; 
or one how or other we should have had reason to have suspected 
them ; but the man showed us a bill of sale for the ship, to one 
Blmanu^ Clostershoven, or some such name, for I suppose it was 
all a forgery, and called himself by that name, and we could not 
contradict him ; and withal having no suspicion of the thing, we 
went through with our bargain. 

We picked up some more English saikNrs here after 'this, and 
some Dutch ; and now we resolved for a second voyage to the 
southeast for clovee, <&c., that is to say, among the Phihppine and 
Molucca isles ; and, in shorty not to fill up this part of my story 
with trifles, when what is to come is so remarkable, I spent, from 
first to last, six years in this country, trading from port to port, 
backward and forward, and with very good success, and was now 
tibe last year with my new partner, going in the ship above men- 
tioned, on a voyage to China, but designing first to Siam, to buy 
rice. 

In this voyage, being by contrary winds obliged to beat up and 
down a great while in the straits of Malacca and among the isl* 
ands, we were no sooner gdt clear of those difficult seas than wo 
found our ship had sprung a leak, and we were not able, by all 
our industry, to find out where it was. This forced us to make 
some port ; and my partner, who knew the country better than I 
did, directed the captain to put into the river of Cambodia ; for I 
had made the English mate, one Mr. Thompson, captain, not be- 
ing willing to take the charge of the ship upon myself. This 
river lies on the north side of the great bay or gulf which goes 
up to Siam. While we were here, and going often on shore for 
refreshment, there comes to me one day an Englishman, and he 
was, it seems, a gunner's mate on board an English East India 
ship which rode in the same river,^ at or near the city of Cambo- 
dia ; what brought him hither we knew not ; but he comes to me, 
and speaking English, Sir, says he, you are a stranger to me, and 
I to you, but I have something to tell you that very nearly con 
cems you. 

I looked steadfastly at him a good while, and thought at first I 
34* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



402 ADTBNTORBS 09 

had known him, but I did not : If it very nearly concerns me, said 
I, and not yourself, what moves you to tell it to me 1 — ^I am 
moved, says he, by the imminent danger you are in, and, for ai^;ht 
I see, you have no knowledge of it. — I know no danger I am in, 
says I, but that my ship is leaky, and I cannot find it out ; but J 
intend to lay her aground to-morrow, to see if I can find it — But, 
sir, says he, leaky or not leaky, find it or not find it, you will be 
wiser than to lay your ship on shore to-morrow, when you hear 
what I have to say to you : do you know, sir, said he, the town 
of Cambodia lies about fifteen leagues up this river ? and there 
are two large English ships about five leagues on this side, and 
three Dutch. — Well, said I, and what is that to me 1 — Why, sir, 
said he, is it for a man that is upon such adventures as you are, to 
come imo a port and not examine first what ships there are there, 
and whether he is able to deal with them ? I suppose you do not 
think you are a match for them t I was amused very much at 
his discourse, but not amazed at it, for I could not conceive what 
he meant ; and I timied short upon him, and said, Sir, I wish you 
would explain yourself; I cannot imagine what reason I have to 
be afraid of any of the Company's ships, or Dutch ships : I am 
no interloper ; what can they have to say to me % He looked 
like a man half angry and half pleased, and pausing awhile, but 
smiling, Well, sir, says he, if you think yourself secure, you must 
take your chance ; I am sorry your fate should blind you against 
good advice ; but assure yourself, if you do not put to sea imme- 
diately, you will the very next tide be attacked by five longboats 
fiill of men, and perhaps, if you are taken, you will be hanged for 
a pirate, and the particulars be examined afterward. I thought, sir, 
added he, I should have met with a better reception than this, for 
doing you a piece of service of such importance. — I can never be 
ungrateful, said I, for any service, or to any man that offers me 
any kindness ; but it is past my comprehension what they should 
have such a design upon me for : however, since you say there 
is no time to be lost, and ^at there is some villanous design 
on hand against me, I will go on board this minute, and put to 
sea immediately, if my men can stop the leak, or if we can swim 
without stopping it : but, sir, said I, shall I go away ignorant of 
the cause of all this ! Can you give. me no further bght into it ? 
— I can tell you but part of the story, sir, says he ; but I have a 
Dutch seaman here with me, and I believe I could persuade him 
to tell you the rest ; but there is scarce time for it : but the short 
of the story is this, the first part of which, I suppose, you know 
well enough, viz., that you was with this ship at Sumatra ; that 
there your captain was murdered by the Malays, wit& three of his 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRU80C. 403 

men ; and that you, or some of ^ose that were on board whh 
you, ran away with the ship, and are since turned pirates. This 
is the sum of the story, and you will all be seized as pirates, 1 
can assure you, and executed with very little ceremony ; for you 
loiow merchant ships show but little law to pirates, if they get 
them into their power. — ^Now you speak plain English, said I, 
and I thank you ; and though I know nothing that we have done 
like what you talk of, for I am sure we came hbnestly and fairly 
by the ship ; yet, seeing such a work is doing, as you say, and 
that you seem to mean honestly, I will be upon my guard. — Nay, 
sir, says he, do not talk of being upon your guard ; the best de- 
fence is, to be out of the danger ; if you have any regard for your 
life, and the lives of all your men, put to sea, wiUiout fail, at high 
water ; and as you have a whole tide before you, you will be 
gone too far out before they can come down ; for they will come 
away at high water, and as they have twenty miles to come, you 
will get near two hours of them by the difference of the tide, not 
reckoning the length of the way ; besides, as they are only boats, 
and not ships, they will not venture to follow you far out to sea, 
especially if it blows. — Well, said I, you have been very kind in 
tliis ; what shall I do for you to mike you amends 1 — ^ir, says 
be, you may not be willing to make me any amends, because you 
may not be convinced of the truth of it : I will make an offer to 
you ; I have nineteen months' pay due to me on board the ship 
* * *, which I came out of England in ; and the Dutchman that is 
with me has seven months' pay due to him ; if you will make 
good our pay to us, we will go along with you : if you find noth- 
ing more in it, we will desure no more ; but if we do convince 
you that we have saved your lives, and the ship, and the lives of 
all the men in her, we will leave the rest to you. 

I consented to this readily, and went immediately on board, and 
the two men with me. As soon as I came to the ship's side, my 
partner, who was on board, came out on the quarter-deck, and 
called to me, with a great deal of joy, O ho ! O ho ! we have 
stopped the leak ! we have stopped the leak 1 — Say you so ? said 
I, thank God ; but weigh anchor then immediately. — Weigh ! says 
he : what do you mean by that ? What is the matter ? — Ask no 
questions, said I ; but all hands to work, and weigh without lo- 
sing a minute. He was surprised, but, however, he called the 
captain, and he immediately ordered the anchor to be got up ; and 
though the tide was not quite down, yet, a little landbreeze blow- 
ing, we stood out to sea. Then I called him into the cabin, and 
told him the story ; and we called in the men, and they told us the 
rest of it: but as it took up a great deal of tim<», before we had 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



4fM ADTlICTURKf Of 

done, a seaman comes to the cabin door, and called out to us tha 
the captain bade him tell us we were chased. Chased ! says I ; 
by what ! — By five sloops or boats, says the fellow, full of men. 
— Very well, said I ; then it is apparent there is something in it. 
Id the next place I ordered all our men to be called up, and told 
them there was a design to seize the ship, and to take us for 
pirates, and asked them if they would stand by us, and by one an- 
other : the men answered cheerfully, one and all, that they would 
Lve and die with us. Then I asked the captain what way he 
thought best for us to manage a fight with them ; for resist them 
I was resolved we would, and that to the last drop. He said 
readily that the way was to keep them off with our grape shot as 
long as we could, and then to fire at them with our small arms, 
to keep them from boarding us ; but when neither of these would 
do any longer, we should retire to our close quarters : peihaps 
they had not materials to break open our bulk-heads, or get in 
upon us. 

The gunner had, in the meantime, orders to bring two guns to 
bear fore and aft, out of the steerage, to clear the deck, and load 
them with musket-bullets and small pieces of old iron, and what 
came next to hand ; and thus we made ready for fight : but all this 
while we kept out to sea, with wind enough, and could see the 
boats at a distance, being five Isurge longboats, following us wi^ 
all the sail they could make. 

Two of those boats (which by our glasses we could see were 
English) outsailed the rest, were near two leagues ahead of them, 
and gained upon us considerably, so that we found they would 
come up with us : upon which we fired a gun without ball, to 
intifliate that they should bring to : and we |Hxt out a flag of truce, 
as a signal for parley : but they came crowding af^r us till they 
&ame within shot, when we took in our white flag, they having 
made no answer to it, and hung out a red flag, and fired at them 
with a shot. Notwithstanding this, they came on till they were 
near enough to call to them with a speaking-trumpet which we 
had on board ; so we called to them, and bade them keep ofif at 
their periL 

It was all one ; they crowded after us, and endeavoured to com» 
under our stern, so as to board us on our quarter ; upon which, 
seeing they were resolute for mischief, and depended upon the 
strength that followed them, I ordered to bring the ship to, so that 
they lay upon our broadside; when immediately we fired five 
guns at them, one of which had been levelled so true as to carry 
away the stem of the hindermost boat, and bring them to the ne- 
eessity of taking down their sail, and running all to the head of 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ftOBiicsoif causoc. 405, 

•he boat to keep her from sinking ; so she lay by, and had enough 
of it ; but seeing the foremost boat crowd on after us, we made 
ready to fire at her in particular. While this was doing, one of 
the Uiree boats that was behind, being forwarder than the other 
two, made up to the boat which we had disabled, to relieve her, 
and we could see her take out the men : we called again to the 
foremost boat, and offered a truce, to parley again, and to know 
what her business was with us ; but had no answer, only she 
crowded close under our stern. Upon this our gunner, who yvas 
a rery dexterous fellow, run out his two chase guns, and fired 
again at her, but the shot missing, the men in the boat shouted, 
waved their caps, and came on : but the gunner, getting quickly 
ready again, fired among them a second time, one shot of which, 
though it Qiissed the boat itself, yet fell in among the men, and we 
could easily see had done a great deal of mischief among them ; 
but we took no notice of that, wore the ship again, and brought 
our quarter to bear upon them, and firing three guns more, we 
found the boat was almost split to pieces ; in particular, her rud- 
der and a piece of her stem was shot quite away ; so they handed 
her sail immediately, and were in great disorder. But, to com- 
plete their misfortune, our gunner let fiy two guns at them again ; 
where he hit them we could not tell, but we found the boat was 
sinking, and some of the men already in the water : upon this I 
immediately manned out our pinnace, which we had kept close by 
our side, with orders to pick up some of the men, if they could, 
and save them from drowning, and immediately come on board 
the ship with them, because we saw the rest of the boats began 
to come up. Our men in the pinnace followed their orders, and 
took up three men, one of whom was just drowning, and it was a 
good while before we could recover him. As soon as they were 
on board, we crowded all the sail we could make, and stood far- 
ther out to sea ; aiui we found that when the other three boats 
came up to the first, they gave over their chase. 

Being thus delivered from a danger, which, ^ough I knew not 
the reason of it, yet seemed to be much greater than I appre- 
hended, I resolved that we should change our course, and not let 
any one know whither we were going : so we stood out to sea 
eastward, quite out of the course of all European ships, whether 
they were bound to China or anywhere else within the commerce 
of the European nations. 

When we were at sea, we began to consult with the two sea- 
men, and inquire what the meaning of all this should be ; and the 
Dutchman let us into the secret at once, telling us that the fellow 
who sold -us the ship, as we said, was no more dian a thief that 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



406 ADTCIfTURCS OF 

had run away with her. Then he told us how the captain, whose 
name too he told us, though I do not remember it now, wastreacher* 
ously murdered by the natives on the coast of Malacca, with three 
of his men ; and that he, this Dutchman, and four more, got into 
the woods, where they wandered about a great while, till at length 
he, in particular, in a miraculous manner, made his escape, and 
swam off to a Dutch ship, which, sailing near the shore in its way 
to China, had sent their boat on shore for fresh water ; that he 
durst not come to that part of the shore where the boat was, but 
made shift in the night to take the water farther off, and swim- 
ming a great while, at last the ship's boat took him up. 

He then told us that he went to Batavia, where two of the sea- 
men belonging to the ship arrived, having deserted the rest in 
their travels, and gave an account that the fellow who had run 
away with the ship sold her at Bengal to a set of pirates, who 
were gone a cruising in her ; and that they had already taken an 
English ship and two Dutch ships very richly laden. 

This latter part was found to concern us directly, though we 
knew it to be false ; yet, as my partner said very justiy, if we had 
fallen into their hands, and they had had such a i^repossession 
against us beforehand, it had been in vain for us to have defended 
ourselves, or to hope for any good quarter at their hands ; and 
especially considering that our accusers had been our judges^ and 
that we could have expected nothing from them but what rage 
would have dictated, and an ungoverned passion have executed ; 
and therefore it was his o^nion we should go directly back to 
Bengal, from whence we came, without putting in at any port 
whatever ; because there we could give a good account of our- 
selves, could prove where we were when Ihe ship put in, of whom 
we bought her, and the like ; and, which was more than all ^e 
rest, if we were put upon the necessity of bringing it before the 
proper judges, we should be sure to have some justice, and not to 
be hanged first and judged afterward. 

I was some time of my partner's opinion ; but, after a little 
more serious thinking, I told him T thought it was a very great 
hazard for us to attempt returning to Bengal, for that we were 
:>n the wrong side of the Straits of Malacca, and that if the 
alarm was given, we should be sure to be waylaid on every 
side, as well by the Dutch of Batavia as the English elsewhere ; 
that if we should be taken, as it were, running away, we should 
even condemn ourselves, and there would want no more evidence ' 
to destroy us. I also asked the English sailor's opinion, who said 
he was of my mind, and that we should certainly be taken. This 
danger a little startled my partner, and all the ship's company, and 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



■OBonoii OBVsoB. 4<y7 

we munediately lesolved to go away to the coast of Tonquin, and 
•o on to the coast of China ; and, pursuing the first design as to 
trade, find some way or other to dispose of the ship, and come 
back in some of the vessels of the country, such as we could get. 
This was approved of as the best method for our security ; and 
accordingly we steered away N. N. E., keeping above fifty leagues 
off from the usual course to the eastward. This, however, put 
us to some inconvenience ; for, first, the winds, when we came to 
that distance from the shore, seemed to be more steadily against 
us, blowing almost trade, as we call it, from the E. and E. N. E., 
so that we were a long while upon, our voyage, and we were but 
ill provided with victuals for so long a run ; and, which was stil] 
worse, there was some danger that those English and Dutch 
ships, whose boats pursued us, whereof some were bound that 
way, might be got in before us, and if not, some other ship bound 
to China might have information of us from them, and pursue us 
with the same vigour. 

I must confess I was now very uneasy, and thought myself, 
including the late escape firom the longboats, to have been in the 
most dangerous condition that ever I was through my past life ; 
for whatever ill circumstances I had been in, I was never pursued 
for a thief before ; nor had I ever done any thing that merited the 
name of dishonest or fraudulent, much less thievish ; I had chiefly 
been my own enemy, or, as I may rightly say, I had been no- 
body's enemy but my own : but now I was embarrassed in the 
worst condition imaginable ; for though I was perfectly innocent 
I was in no condition to make that innocence appear ; and if 1 
had been taken, it had been under a supposed guUt of the worst 
kind.' This made me very anxious to make an escape, though 
which way to do it I knew not, or what port or place we could go 
to. My partner, seeing me thus dejected, though he was the most 
concerned at first, began to encourage me, and, describing to me 
the several ports of that coast, told me he would put in on the 
coast of Cochin China, or the bay of Tonquin, intending to go 
afterward to Macao, a town once in possession of the Portuguese, 
and where still a great many European families resided ; and par- 
ticularly the missionary priests usually went thither, in order to 
their go^ng forward to China. 

Hither then we resolved to go ; and accordingly, though aftei 
a tedious and irregular course, and very much straitened for pro* 
visions, we came within sight of the coast very early in the morn- 
ing ; and upon reflection on the past circumstances we were in, 
and the danger if we had not escaped, we resolved to put into a 
small river, which, however, had depth enough of watctr f->r us. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



408 A9TCKT1TRM OF 

tnd to see if we could, either overland or by the ship's pinnace, 
come to know what ships were in any port thereabouts. I'bia 
happy step was, indeed, our deliverance ; for though we did not 
immediately see any European ships in the bay of Tonquin, yet 
the next morning there came into the bay two Dutch ships ; and 
a third, without any colours spread out, but which we believed to 
be a Dutchman, passed by at about two leagues' distance, steer« 
ing for the coast of China ; and in the afternoon went by two 
English ships steering the same course ; and thus we thought we 
saw ourselves beset with enemies both one way and the other. 
The place we were in was wild and barbarous ; the people thieves, 
even by occupation or profession ; and though, it is true, we had 
not much to seek of them, and, except getting a few provisions, 
cared not how little we had to do with them, yet it was with 
much difficulty that we kept ourselves from being insulted by 
them, several ways. We were in a small river of this country, 
within a few leagues of its utmost limits northward ; and by our 
boat we coasted northeast, to the point of land which opens the- 
great bay of Tonquin ; and it was in this beating up along the 
shore that we discovered we were surrounded with enemies. The 
people we were among were the most barbarous of all the inhab - 
ttanis of the coast, having no correspondence with any other na- 
Uon, and dealing only in fish and oil, and such gross commodities ; 
tnd it may be particularly seen that they are the most barbarous 
»fany of the inhabitants. Among other customs, they have this 
one, viz., that if any vessel has the misfortune to be shipwrecked 
upon their coast, they preselitly make the men all prisoners or 
slaves ; and it was not long before we found a piece of their kind- 
ness this way, on the occasion following. 

I have observed above that our ship sprung a leak at sea, and 
that we could not find it out ; and it happened that, as I have 
said, it was stopped unexpectedly, in the happy minute of our be- 
ing to be seized by the Dutch and English ships in the bay of 
Siam ; yet, as we did not find the ship so perfectly tight and sound 
as we desired, we resolved, while we were at ftiis place, to lay 
her on shore, and take out what heavy things we had on board, 
and clean her bottom ; and, if possible, to find out where the leaks 
were. Accordingly, having lightened the ship, and brought all 
our guns and other moveables to one side, we tried to bring her 
down, that we might come at her bottom ; but, on second thoughts, 
we did not care to fay her on dry ground, neither could we find 
jut a proper place for it. 

The inhabitants; who had never been acquainted with such a 
igtxt, came wondering down the shore to look at us ; and seeing 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



, the ship U^ down on one niAe in such a manner, and. heeling in 
towards the »hore, and not seeing our men, who were at work on 
her bottom with stages, aijd with their boats on the off side, they 
presently concluded that the ship was cast away, and lay no fast 
on the ground. On thii? supposition, they all came about us in 
two or Aree^ hours' time, with ten or twelve large boats, having 

. some of them.«igl^, some ten men in a boat, intending, no doubt, 
to have come on board and plundered the ship ; and if they had 
found us there, to have carried us away for slavey to their king, 
or wlMitever they call him, for we knew nothing of their governor. 
When they came up to the ship and began to row round her, 
they discovered us all hard at work on the outside of the ship's 
bottom and side, washing, and graving, and stopping, a^ every 
seafaring man knows hovv. They istood for a while gazing at us, 
and we, who were a little surprised, could not imagines what their 
design w§ks ; but being willing to be sure, we took this opportunity 
to get some of us into the ship, and others to hand down arms and 
ammunition t^ those that were at work to defend themselves with, 
if there should be occasion ; and it was no more tha^i need ; lor 
in less than a quarter of an hour's consultation^ they agreed, it 
seems, that the ship was really a wreck ; and that we were all at 
work endeayouring to save her> or to save our lives by the help 
of our bpats; and when we handed our arms into the boats, they 
concluded, by that motion, that we were endeavouring to save 
some of our goods ; upon this they took it for granted we all be- 
longed to them, and away they came directly upon our men, as if 
it had been in u line of battle. ^ , . 

Our men, seeing so many of them, began to be frightened, for 
we lay but in an ill posture to fight, and cried out to us to know 
what they should do* I immediately called to the, men who 
worked upon the stages, to slip tt 
into the ship; and bade those in 1 
on board ; and those few of us wl 
all the strength and hands we had 
however, neither the men upon th 
could do as they were ordered, b 
upon them ; and two of their \m 
began to lay hold on the men as 1 
The first man they laid hold on 
Btiong fellow, who, having a musl 

6ro it, but laid it down in the boat, like a fool, as I thought ; but 
he understood his business, better than 1 could teach him, for he 
grappled the pagan, and dragged him by main force out of their 
boat into ours, where, taking him by the ^ars, he beat his head ao 

30 



Digitized 



by Google 



410 AiiVRjnniKs or 

tgainst the boat's gunnel, that the fellow died in his haods ; and, 
in the meantime, a Dutchman, who stood next, took up the mus- 
ket, and with the but-end of it to laid about him, that he knocked 
down five of them who attempted to enter the boat. But this was 
doing Uttle towards resisting thirty or forty men, who, fearless, 
because ignorant of their danger, began to throw themselves into 
the longboat, where we had but five men in all to defend it : but 
the following accident, which deserved our laughter, gave our 
men a complete victory. 

Our carpenter being prepared to grave the outside of the ship, 
as well as to pay the seams where he had calked her to stop the 
leaks, had got two kettles just let down into the boat, one filled 
with boiling pitch, and the other with rosin, tallow, and oil, and 
such stuff as the shipwrights use for that work ; and the man who 
attended the carpenter had a great iron ladle in his hand, 'mth 
which he supplied the men that were at work with the hot stuff; 
two of the enemy's men entered the boat just where ^is fellow 
stood, being in the foresheets ; he iminediately saluted them with 
a ladlefiil of the stuffy boiling hot, which so burnt and scalded 
them, being half naked, that they roared out like bulls, ^md, en- 
raged with the fire, leaped both into the sea. The carpenter saw 
it, and cried out, Well done. Jack 1 give them some more of it: 
and stepping forward himself, takes one of the mops, and dipping 
it in the pitch-pot, he and his man threw it among them so plen- 
tifully, that, in short, of all the men in the three boats there was not 
one that escaped being scalded and burnt with it, in a most friglit- 
fiil, pitiful manner, and made such a howling and crying, that I never 
heard a worse noise : for it is worth observing, Uiat though pain 
naturally makes all people cry out, yet every nation has a partic- 
ular way of exclamation, and makes noises as different from one 
another as their speech. I cannot give the noise these ereatures 
made a better name than howling, nor a name more proper to the 
tone of it ; for I never heard any thing more Tke the noise of the 
wolves, which, as I have said, I heard howl in the forest on the 
firontiers of Languedoc. 

I was never better pleased with a victory in my life ; not only 
as it was a perfect surprise to me, and that our danger was im^ 
minent before, but, as we had got this victory without airf biood- 
•hed, except of that man the fellow killed with his naked hands 
and which I was very much concerned at, for I was sick of kil- 
ling such poor savage wretches, even though it was in my own 
defence, knowing they came on errands which they thought just, 
and knew no better ; and that though it may be a just thing, be- 
cause necessary (for theie is no necessary wickedness in nature) 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



koBIITSON 6«0I^6Z. it! 

' yet 1 thought it was a sad life, when we must be always obligod to 
be killing our fellow-creatures to presetve ourselves ; and, indeed, 
I think so still, tuid I would even now sufibr a great deal, rather 

- iSittn I Would take dway the Hfe even of .the worst person injuring 
me ; and I believe atll considering people who know the value of 
life tviouhi be of my opinion, if they entered seriously into the 
consideration of it. 

Bnt to return to my story :— All the While rtiis was doing, my 
partner and I, who managed the rest of the men on board, had 
with great dexterity brought the ship almost to rights, and having 
got the guns into tWr places again, the gunner called to me to 
bid our boat to get out of the way, fot he would let fly among 
them. I called back again to faifh, and bid htm not of!^r to tire, 
f6r the carpenter would do the ivork^ without him; but bid him 
heat another pitch-kettle, which our cook, who was on board, took 
care of: but the enemy was so terrified with what they had met 
with in their first attack, that they would not come on again ; and 
some of them who were largest off, seeing the ship swkn, as it 
were, upn|[ht^ began, as we suppose, to see their mistake, and 
give over the enterprise, finding it was not as they expected. 
11>tts we got clear of this merry %ht, and having got some rice, 
and some roots and bread, with about sixteen hogs, on board, two 
days before, we resolved to stay here no longer, but go forward, 
whatever cama of it ; for we made no^ doubt but we should be sur- 
rounded ^e ne^t day with rogues enough, perhaps more than our 
pitch'kettle would depose of §ar us. We therefore got all our 
things on board the same evening, and the next morning were 
ready to siol : in ^e meantime, lying at anchor at some distance 
irom the shore, We were not so much concerned ^ being now in a 

. fighting posture, as well as in a sailing posture, if smy enemy had 
pretitented. The next day, having finished our work wf^n board, 
and filling our ship was perfoctly healed of aH her leaks, w« set 
i»ul. We virould have gone into the bay of Tonquin, for we wanted 
to inform ourselves of what was toi>e known concerning li>e Dutch 
ships tiiat had been there ; but we durst not stand in there, be* 
cause we had seen several ships go in j as we su{^K>sed, but a little 
b^ore ; so we kept on N. Ei towards the Island of Formosa, as 
much afiraid of being seen by a Butdi ox English merchant ship, 
as a Dutch or Enghsh merchant ahip in the Mediterranean is 
of an Algerine man-of-war. 

When we were thus got to irear we kept <m N. E. as if we 
would go to the Manillas or the Philippine islands, and this we did 
that we might not faU into the way of any of the European ships ; 
and then we steered nor^ till we came tc the latitude of 22 deg. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



412 ADTcNTUfcies or 

30 linn., by which means we oiade the Island Formosa direc^ir, 
where we came to «n aDchor»in ordef to g^ water and fresh pxo- 
Fjsions, which the people there, who ve ver j courteous and civil 
in their m«niier, supplied us with wiUinglf « and dealt y&tf fairly 
and punctually with us in all their agreements and bargains, which 
is what we did not find among other people, and may he owing to 
the remains of Christianity, which was once planted here by a 
Dutch missionary of Protestants, and is a testimony of what I 
have often observed, vis., that the CbristiaB rel^ion always civ- . 
ilizes the people and reforms the^r manners where it is received, 
whether it works saving effects upon them or nc. 

From thence we sailed still north, keepix^ the coast of China 
at an equal distance, till we knew we wspe beyond all the ports 
of China where our European ships usually come ; being re- 
solved, if possible, not to fall into any of their hands, especially 
in this country ; where, as our ckcumstaneea vt^ere, we could not 
fail of being entirely ruined. 

Being now oome to the latitiude of Uiifty degrees, we resolved 
to put into ^le first tiding port we should oome at ; and st^mding 
in for the shore, a boat came oS two leagues to us, with an old 
Portuguese pilot on boards v/ho^ knowing us to be a European 
ship, came to offer his service, which, indeed, we were glad of, 
and took him on boadl : upon whi^, wi&out asking ^wluther we 
would go, he dismissed Uie boat he came in, and sent it bade. 

I thought it was now so much in our choice to make the old 
man carry us whither we woi^d, ^act I began to talk to him about 
carrying us to the gulf of Nanquin, which is the most ^northern 
part of the coast of China. The old man said he knew the gulf 
of Nanquin ▼ery' well, but smiling, asked us what we would do 
there ! I told him we would sell our cargoi, and pcurchase China 
war^, caUcoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks, &c*, and so would 
return by the same course we came. He told us that our best 
port had been to hare put in at Macao, where we could not have 
failed of a market for our opium to our satis&u^tion, and might for 
our money have purchased all sorts of China goods as cheap as 
we could at Nanquin. 

Not being able to put the old mail out of his talk, of which he 
was very opinionated or conceited, I toM him we were gen^men 
as well as merchsmts, and that we had a mind to go and see the 
great city of Pekin, and the famous court of the monarch of 
China. Why then, says the old man, you should go to Ningpo, 
where, by the river which runs into the sea there, you may go 
within ^VB leagues of the great canal. This canal is a navigable 
stream, which goes through he heart of tlmt vast empire of Chinir 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CBITSOB. 413 

crosses all the rivers, passes some coi^iderable hills hj the help 
of sluices and gates,' and goes up to ^le city of Pekin, being in 
length near two hundred and seventy ies^es. 

Well, said I, Senhor Portuguese^ but that is »ot our business 
now ; the great question is, if you can cajhry us up to the city 
of Nanquin, from whence we can travel to Pekin afteiwaxd 1 
He said we could do so very well, and that there was a great 
Dutch ship gone up that Way just befere. l^is gave me a little 
shock, for a Dutch ship was naw eur terror, and we had much 
rather have met the devil, at least if ke had not come in too 
frightful a figure ; and we depended upon it Uiat a Dutch ship 
would be our destruction, for we were in no^ condition to fight them j 
all the ships they trade virith into those parts being of great but- 
den, and of much greater fiwrce tlmn we were. 

The old man found me a little ccmiused^ and under some con- 
cern, when he nam^d a Dutch ship ; and said to me, Sir, you 
need be under no apprehensions of the Dutch ; I suppose they are 
not now at war with your nation T — ^Noj said. I, that^s true ; but 
I know not what liberties Bsen may take wl^n they are out of the 
reach of the laws of thear own coantry.T— Why, says he, you 
are no pirates ; what need" you feai^t They will not meddle 
with peaceable merchants, mte. 

If I had any blood in my body that did not fly up into my face 
at that word, it was hindered by some atop in the vessels ap« . 
pointed by nature to circulate it, for it put me into the greatest 
disorder and confusion imaginable : nor was it possible for me 
to conceal it so, but the old man easily perceived it. 

Sir, says he, I find you are in some disoid^ in your thoughts 
at my talk ; pray be pleased to go which v^y you think £^t, and 
depend upon it, I'll do you all the service I can, — ^Why, senhor, 
said I, it is true, I am a litUe unsettled in my resolution at this 
time, whither to go in particular ; and I am something more so 
for what ycKi said about pirates. I hope ^ere are no pirates In 
these seas ; we are but in an ill condition to meet with them, 
fbr you see we have but a small force/ smd are but very weakly 
manned. — Oh, sir, says he, don't be concerned, I do not know 
that there have been any pirates in these seas these fifteen years, 
except one, which was seen^ as I hear, in tiie bay of Siam, about 
a month since : but you may be assured she is gone to the 
southward ; nor was she a ship of any great force, or fit for the 
work : she was not buik for a privateer, but was run away with 
hy a reprobate crew that was on boards after the captain and 
Some of his men had been murdered by the Malayans, at or near 
the Island of Sumatra. — ^What ! said I, seeimng to know nothing 

35* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



414 AOTBifTUi^s or 

of the matter, did tbej moider the captain t— No, said he, I 
don*t understand that they murdered him ; bat as they afterward 
ran away with the ship, it is generally believed that they bebrayed 
him into the tiands of the Malayans^ who did murder him ; and 
perhi^ they procured them to do it.-^Why then» said I, they 
deserre death as much as if they had done it themselves. — Nay, 
says the old man, they do deserve i< ; and they will certainly have 
it, if ihey light upon any English or Butch ship ; for they have 
all agreed together, that if tfaey meet that rogue they^U give him 
no quarter. — But, said 1 to him^ you say the , {»rate is gone out 
of these seas ; how can they meet with him then ?^^Why, that^s 
true, says he, they do say so ; but he was, as I tell you, in the 
bay of Siam, in the river Cambodia ; and was discovered there 
by some Dutchmen who baienged to the ship, and who were left 
on shore when they ran away wtth^ hex ; and some English and 
Dutch traders being in the river, U^y were within a li^Ie of 
taking him : nay, said he^ if the ibvmest boats had been well 
seconded by the rest, they had csftamly taken him ; but he» find- 
ing only two boats within rea^ of hii&» tacked about, and fired 
at those two, and disabled them ba£ore the others came up,, and 
then standing off to sea, the ofhecs wsia not able to follow, and 
so he got away ; but they have all so exact a description of the 
ship, that they vrilt be sure to know her ; and whe^rever thery find 
her, they have vowod to g^ve no quarter either to the captain or 
seamen, but to hang them all up. at thft yardar m«— What ! said 
I, will they execute tiiiem right oc wrong ; hang them first, and 
judge them afterward t — Oh> sir, says the old pilots there is no 
need to mako a formal bostness of it virith such rogues as. those , 
let them tie them back to bads^ and set th^n a divings 'tis no 
more than they deserve. 

I knew I had my old man hat on board, and that he could 
do no harm, so tliat I turned short, upim him : Well now, senhoTy 
said I, this is the v«ry reason why 1 would have you carry us up 
to Nanquin, and odt pot back to Macao, or to any other part of 
the country where ^e Eng^h or Dutch ships come i for be it 
known to you, senhor, those captssns of the English and Dutch 
ships are a parcel <^ rash, proud, insolent fellows, that neither 
know what^ belongs^ to justice, ca, how to behave themselves as 
the laws <^ God and nature direct ; but being proud of their 
offices, and not un(krstanding their pow^, they would act the 
murderers to punish robbers ; would take upon them to insuU 
men falsely accused, and determine them guilty wiUutut due in- 
quiry ; and perhaps I may live to bhng some of them to account 
for it, when they nmy be taoght how justice is to be executed* 



Digitized 



by Google 



KOBINSON CRUSOE. 415 

and that no man ougm to be treated as a criminal till some evi- 
dence may be had of the crime, and that he is the man. 

With tiiis I told him that this was the very ship they attacked, 
and gave him a full account of ^e skinnish we had with their 
boats, and how fooli^y and cowardly they behaved. I told him 
ali the story of our buying the ship, and how the Dutchman 
served us. I told him the reasons I had to believe the story of 
killing tb© master by the Malayans was true, as also the running 
away with the ship ; but it was ali a fiction of their own to sug- 
gest that the men had turned pirates, and they ought to have been 
sure it was so before they had vontufed to attack us by surprise, 
and oblige us to resist them ; adding, that they would have the 
blood of those men, whom we kflled there in just defence, to 
auaswer for. 

The old man was amazed at this relation, and told us we were 
very much in the right to go away to the north ; and that if he 
might advise us, it should be to sell the ship in China, which we 
might very weH do, and buy or build another in the country ; and, 
said he, though you will not get so good a ship, yet you may get 
one able enough to carry you and all your goods back again to 
Bengal, or anywhere else. I told him I would take his advice 
when I came to any port where I could find a ship for my turn, 
or get any customer to buy this. He replied, I should meet with 
customers enough for the ship at Nanquin, and thset a Chinese 
junk would serve me very well to go back again ; and that he 
would procure me people bo^ to buy one and sell the other. 
Well but, senhor, said I, as you say they know the ship so well, 
I may, perhaps, if I follow your measures, be instrumental to 
bring some honest innocent men' into a terrible broil, and per*- 
haps to be murdered in cold blood ; for, wherever th^ find the 
ship, ^ey will prove the guilt upon the men, by proving this was 
the ship, and so innocent men may probably be overpowered and 
murdered. — ^Why, says the old man, I'll find out a way to pre- 
vent that also ; for as I know all those commanders you speak 
of very well, and shall see them all as they pass by, I will be sure 
to set them to rights in the thing, and let them know that they 
had been so much in the wrong ; that th<H]gh the people who 
were on board at first might run away WiA the ship, yet it was 
not true that they had turned pirates ; and that, in particular, these 
were not the men Aat first went ofif with the ship, but innocently 
bought her for their trade ; and I am persuaded they will so far 
believe me, as at least to act more cautiously for the time to 
come. 

While these things were passing between us, by way of dis- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



416 ABTBlfTORCS OF 

eourse, we went forward directly for Nanquin, and in about tbix^ 
teen days* sail oame to an anchor at the southwest point of the 
great gulf of Nanquin ; where, by the way, I came by accident to 
understand that two Dtttch ships were gone the length before me, 
and that I should certainly fall into their hands. I consulted my 
partner again in this exigence, and he was aa much at a loss as 
I was, and would very gladly have been safe on shore almost 
anywhere : however, I was not in such perfdexity neither, but I 
asked the old pilot if there was no creek or harbour which I 
might put into and pursue my business wiUi the Chinese pri- 
vately, and be in no danger of the enemy* He told me if I 
would sail to the southward about forty-two leagues, there was a 
little port called Quinchang, where ^ fathers of the mission 
usually landed from Macao, on their progress to teach the Chris- 
tian religion to the Chinese, and where no European ships ever 
put in ; and if I thought to put in there, I might consider what 
farther coufse to take when I was on shore. Ke confessed, he 
said, it was not a (dace for merchants, except that at some cer- 
tain times they had a kind of a fair there, when the merchants 
from Japan came over thither to buy the Chinese merchandises. 

We ajl agreed to go bads to this place ; the name of the port, 
as he called it, I may perhaps spell vnrong, for I do not particularly 
remember it, having lost this, together with the names of many 
other places set down in a little pocketbook, which was spoiled 
by the water by an accident ; but this I remember, that the Chi- 
nese or Japanese merchants we corresponded with called it by a 
difierent name &om that which our Portuguese pilot gave it, and 
{nromnmced it as above, Quinchang. 

As we were unanimous in our resolution to go to thia place, 
we weighed the next day, having only gone twice on shore where 
we were to get fresh water ; on both which occasions the people 
of the coui^ry were very civil to us, and brought us abundance 
of things to «ell to us, I mean of provisions, plants, roots, tea, 
rice, and some fowls, but nothing without money. 

We came to the other port (the wind being contrary) not tiU 
five days, but it was very much to our satisfaction ; and I was 
joyful, and I may say thankful, when I set my foot on shore, re- 
solving, and my partner too, ihsX if it was possible to dispose of 
ourselves and ejects any other way, though not evt^ry way to our 
satisfaction^ we woujld never set one foot on board that unhappy 
vessel more ; and, indeed, I must acknowledge, that of all the 
circumstances of life that ever I had any experience of, nothing 
makes mankind so completely miserable as that of being in con- 
stant fear. Well does the Scripture say, " The feeir of man 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOV. 417 

bimgs a snare ;^' it is a life of death, and the mind is so entirely 
(^pressed by it that it is capable of no relief. 

Not did it fail of its usual operations upon the fancy, by 
heightening every danger, representing the English and Dutch 
captains to be men incapable of hearing reason or of distingiHsh- 
ing between honest men and rogues ; or between a story calcu- 
lated for our own turn, made out of nothing, on purpose t^ de- 
ceive, and a true genuine account ef our whole Teyage, pro^ss, 
and design ; for we might many ways have convinced any rea- 
sonable creature that we were not pirates ; the goods we had on 
board, the course we steered, our frankly showing ourselves, and 
entering into such and su&h ports ; and even our very manner, 
the fofce we had, ^e number ef men, the few arms, little ammu- 
nition, short provisions ; all these wouM have served to convinc^e 
any men that we were no pirates. The opium and other goods 
we had on board would make it appear the ship had been at Ben- 
gal. The D&tchmen, w^, it was said, had the names of all the 
men that were in the ship, might easily see that we were a mix- 
ture of English, Portuguese, and Indians, and hut two Dutchmen 
en board. These, and many other particular circumstances, 
might have made it evident to the und^stanciing of any, com- 
mander, whose hands we nnght fall into, that we were no 
pirates. But fear, tiiat blind, useless passion, worked another 
way, and threw us into the vapours ; it bewildered our under- 
standings, and set l^e imagination to work to form a thousand 
terrible ^ng9 that perhaps might never happen. We first sup- 
posed, as indeed everybody h€ul related to us, that the -seamen 
en board the English and Dutch ships, but especially the Dutch, 
were so enraged at the name of a pirate, and especiidly at our 
beating off ^ir boats and escaping, Uiat they would not give 
themselves leave to inquire whether we were pirates or no ; but 
would execute us off-hand, as we call it, without giving us any 
room for a defence; ^ We reflected that there leally was so much 
apparent evidence before them, that they would scarce inquire 
a^r Buy more ; as, £rst, that the ship was certainly the same, 
and that some of the seamen among them kn^w her, and had been 
on board her ; and, secondly, that when we had intelligence at 
the river of Cambodia that they were coming down to examine 
us, we fought their boats and fled ; so that we made no doubt but 
^ley^ were as fully sa^fied of our being pirates, as we were sat- 
isfied of the contrary : and, as I often said, I know not but I 
should have been apt to have taken those circumstances for evi- 
dence, if the tables were turned, and my case was theirs ; and 
nave made no scruple of cutting all ^e crew to pieces, without 



Digitized 



by Google 



418 ADTBIfTOaSS OP 

believing, or perhaps consklering, what they might have to ofief 
in their defence. 

But let that be how it will, these were our apprehensions; and 
both my partner and I scarce slept a ni^t without dreaming ol 
halters and yardarois: that is to say, gibbets ; of fighting, and 
being taken ; of killing, and being kijl^ ; and one- night I was 
in such a fury in my drean^ fancying the Dutchman had boankd 
ti8> and I was' knocking tme of their seamen down^ that X struck 
my doubled &bI against the aide of the cabin I lay in with such a 
force, as wounded my hand grievously, broke my knueklee, and 
cut and bruised the flissh, so that it awaked m^ out of my. sleep. 

Another apprehension I had was the cruel usage we might 
meet with itom then if we fell into their hands : then the. stofy 
of Amboyna came into my head, and how the Butdi might per- 
haps torture tin, s« they did our /Coumrymen there, iu»d make 
some of our men, by extremity of torture, confess those crimee 
they never were guilty ol^ or own themselves and all of us to be 
pirates, and so thsy "would put us to death with a formal appear* 
anoe of justice ; sind that they might be tempted to do this for 
the gain of our slup .and ciurgo, which was worth four or five 
thousand pounds, put all together. 

These things tormented Bie and my partner too, night and day ; 
nor did we consider that the eaptams of shi|)s have fio authoci^ 
to act thus ; and if we had sumiuiored priscmera to thej», they 
could not answer the destroying us, or U^rturing us, but would be 
accountable for it when they came to their own Qountry; dits, I 
say, gave me no satis&<^Qn ; for if tiiey were to act ti^is. with 
us, what advantage wwld it be to us ^at it»j should bs called 
to an aocoiBia for it 1 or if we were 6rst to be muinkred, what 
satisfaction would it he to us to have them punished when they 
came home ? 

I cannot retrain taking notice h«Ee what reflection^ I now had 
upon, the vast variety of my particular circum^an^ces ; how hard 
I thought it was, that I, whn had spent ibf ty years in a iifo of 
continual difiiculties, and was at last come, aa it were, to the 
port or haven which all men drive at, viz., ta have rest and 
plen^, should be a volunteer in new sonows by my own w;^appy 
ehoiGe ; and th^ I, who had eseiqped so many dangers in my 
youth, should now come to be hsmged in my old ag^, and in so 
remote a pkoe, for a crime which I was not in the least inclined 
to, much less guilty o£ 

After these thoii^hts, something of religion would come in « 
and I should be eonsidtering that this seemed to me to be a dis- 
position of immediate Prcmdence, and I oa^iX to look i^pon it 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON C«II80£. 4111 

and frubmit to it as such ; that sdUiough I was innocent as to 
ifien, I was far fiom being innocent as to my Maker ; and I ought 
to look in and examine what other crimes in my life were most 
obvious to mej and £dr wluch Providence might justly inflict this 
punishment as a retribution; and that I ought to submit to this, 
just as I wbuld to a shipwreck, if it ,had pleased God to have 
brought such a disaster upon me. 

In its turn, neural courage would sometimes take its place^ 
VRd ^len I would be talking myself xvp to v^orous resolutions ; 
that I would not be taken to be baicbajrously used by a parcel of 
merciless wretches in cold blood; that, it were much better to 
have fallen mto the hands of the savages, though I was sure th^y 
wtrnM feast upon me when they had taken me, than those who 
vrould peihaps glut their rage upon me by inhuman tortures and 
bcyrbarities ; that in the case of the savagei^ I always resolved to die 
%hting to the last gasp, and why should I not do so now, seeing 
it was much more dreadM, to me at least,^ to think of falling into 
these men's hands, than ever it was to think of being eaten by 
men? for the savages, give them their due, would not eat a man 
till he was killed and dead, but tliat these men had many arts 
beyond the cruelty of death. Whenever these thoughts pre- 
Taikd, i was sure to put myself into a kind of fever with the 
agitation of a supposed fight ; my blood would boil, and my eyes 
sparkle, as if I was engaged, and I always resolved to ts^e no 
quarter at their hands ; but, even at last, if I could resist no 
longer, I would blow up the ship and all that was in her, and 
leave them but little- boc^ to boast of. 

The greater weight ^ anxieties imd pesplexitias of these 
things were to our thoughts while wo were at sea, the greater 
was our satisfaction when we saw ourselves on shore ; and my 
partner told me he dreamed that he bad a very heavy load upon 
his back, which he was to carry iq> a hill, and found that he was 
not able to stand l<mger un<ter it ; but that the Portuguese pilot 
came and took it off his back, and the hill disa^eared, the ground 
before him appearing all smooth and plam ; aiid truly it was so ; 
they were aU like m&n who had a load taken off their backs. 
For my part, I had a we^|[ht taken off £:om my heart that it was 
not able any longer to bear ; and, as I said above, we resolved to 
go no more to sea in ^lat ship. Wl^n we casi^e on shore, the 
old pilot, who was now our fiiend, got us a lodging and a ware- 
house for our goods, which, by the way, was much the same : it 
was a little house, or hut, wkh a larger house adjoining to it, all 
buih with canes, and palisaded round with large canes, to keep 
out pilfering tlueves, of which, it aeema, there weije m% ^ ibw ia 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



1^ AmrkiiTURBt or 

that country ; however, the magistrates allowed us a litUe guard, 
and we hiul a soldier with a kiBd of faalbeid, or half-pike, who 
stood sentinel at our door ; to whom we allowed a pint of rice^ 
and a little piece of monej, about the Takte oi threepence, per 
dsy, so that our goods were kept very 8a£^ 

Th^ fair, or mart, usually kept in this place, had been over 
sime time; however, we found that there were three or four 
junks in the river, and two Japaners, I mean ships from Japan, 
with goods whidi they had bought in China, and were not gone 
away, having some Japanese merchants on shore. 

Tlie first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us was to get 
us acquainted with three missionary Romish priests who were in 
town, and who had been there some time, converting the peof^ 
to Christianity ; but we thought they made but poor work of it, 
and made them but sorry- Christians virhen Ihey had done; how- 
ever, that was none of our business. One of these .was a 
Frenchman, whom they called Father Simon; another was a 
Portuguese, and the ^rd a Grenoese; but Father Simon was 
courteous, easy in his manner, and very agreeable company ; the 
other two were more reserved, seined rigid and austere, and ap- 
plied seriously to the work they came about, i4z., to tsllk with 
and insinuate themselves among the inhabitants, wherever they 
had opportunity. We often ate and drank with those men ; and 
though, I must confess, the conversiom, as they call it, of the 
Chinese to Christianity is so far from the true conversicm re- 
quired to bring hea^n people to the ^ith of Christ, that it seem.« 
to amount to little more than letting them know the name of 
Christ, and say some prayers to the Virgin Mary and her Son, iv 
a tongue which ^ey understand not, and to cross themselves, fuu^ 
^e like ; yet it must be confessed that the religionists, vdiom w^ 
caH missionaries, have a fhrm belief ^at these people will Im» 
Saved, and timt they are the instruments of it ; and, on this ac- 
count, they undergo not only the fatigue of the voyage, and the 
hazards of living in such places, but oftentmies dea^b itself, with 
the most violent tortures, for the sake of this work. 

But to return to my story : This French prtest, Father Simon, 
was appointed, it seems, by order of the chief of the mission, to 
go up to Pekin, the royal seat of the Chii»esc emperor, and 
waited only for another pnest, who was ordered to come to him 
&om Macao, to go along with him ; and we scarce evor met to- 
gether but he was imdting me to go that journey ; telling me how 
he would show me all the glorious things of that mighty empire, 
and, among the rest, tl^ greatest city in the world ; a city, said 
he, that yomr London and our Paris put together cannot be equal 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Ronmsoif cRU!?oic. 421 

to. This was the city of Pekin, which, I confess, is very great, 
and in^nitely full of people ; but as I looked on those things with 
different eyes firom other men, so I ^all give my opinion of them 
in a few words, when I come in the coarse of my travels to 
•peak more particularly of them. 

But, first, I come to my friar or missionary. Dining with hkn 
one day, and being very merry together, I showed some little in- 
clination to go with him ; and he pressed me and my partner very 
hard, and with a great many persuasions, to consent. Why, 
Father Simon, says my partner, should you desire our company 
so much? you know we are heretics, and you do not love us, nor 
cannot keep us company with any pleasure. — O, says he, you 
may perhaps be good Catholics in time ; my busmess here is to 
convert heathens, and who knows but I may convert you too ! — 
Very well, father, said I, sa you will preach to us all the way ? — 
I will iK>t be troublesome to you, says he ; otor religion does not 
divest us of good manners: besides, we are here like country- 
men ; and so we are, compared to the place we are in ; and if 
you are Huguenots, and I a Catholic, we may all be Christians at 
last ; at least, we are all gentlemen, and we Hiay converse so, 
without being uneasy to one another. I liked this part <£' his 
discourse very well, and it began to put me in mind of my pries\ 
that I had left in the Brazils ; but this Father Simon did not cbme 
up to his character by a great deal ; for though Father Simon had 
no appearance of a criminal levity in him neither, yet he had not 
that fund of Christian zeal, stnct piety, and sincere affection to 
religion, that my other good ecclesiastic had. 

But to leave him a little, though he never left us, nor soliciting 
us to go with him ; we had something else before us at first, for 
we had all this while our ship and our merchandise to dispose of, 
and we began to be very doubtful what we should do, for we 
were now in a place of very little business ; and once I was 
about to venture to sail for the river of Kilam, and the city of 
Nanquin ; but Providence seemed now more visibly, as I thought, 
than ever, to concern itself in our affairs : and I was encouraged, 
from this very Ume, to think I should one way or other get out of 
this entangled circumstance, and be brought home to my own 
country again, though I had not the least view of the mann^. 
Providence, I say, began here to clear up our way a Utde : and 
the first thing that offered was, that our old Portuguese pilot 
brought a Japan merchant to us, who inquired what goods we 
had ; and, in the first place, he bought all our opium, and gave 
us a very good price for it, paying us in gold by weight, some in 
•mall pieces of their own coin, and some in small wedges, of 

36 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



432 iDTBSTimcs or 

ftbant ten or eleven ounces each. While we were dealing wi^ 
him for our opium, it came into my head that he might perhaps 
deal for the ahip too, and I <»rdered the intei^eter to propose it 
to him ; he shrunk up hie shoulders at it when it was first pro- 
posed to him ; hut in a few days alker he came to^ me, with one 
of the missionary priests for his interpieier, and told me he had 
a proposal to make to me, which was this i-^-^xe had bought a 
gseat qoanlity of gooda of us, when he had no thcmghts of {pro- 
posals mado to him of buying the ahip4 and that, therefore, he 
had not meaey enough to pay for the ship : but if I would let the 
same men who were in. the slup navigate her, he would hire the 
ship to go to Ji^on ; and would send them firom thence to the 
Philippine Isbads with another loading, wlach he would pay the 
freight of before they went from Japan ; and Uiat at their return 
he would buy ^nt ship. I began to listen to his proposal, and so 
eager <tid my head still nm upon rambling, thi^ I could not but 
begin to entertain a notion of going myself with him, and so to 
sail firom the Philipj^Be Islands away to the South Seas ; acooard- 
ingly I a^ed tiie Japanese merchant if he woidd nxA hire us to 
the Philippine Islands, and discharge us there. H« said, No, 
he couM not do tiuit, for then he could not have the return of his 
cargo ; but he would ikscharge us in Japsm, at the ahip's return. 
Well, still I was for taking him at that proposal, and g^g my- 
self ; but my partner, wiser than myself, persuaded me fri^a it, 
representing ^ dangers, as w^ of the seas as of the Jiq^mnese, 
.who area false, cruel, and treacherous people ; likewise those of 
the Spaniards at the Philij^ines, more false, cruel, and t»a€dM»* 
ous than th^. 

Bitt to bring this loi^ turn of our afikirs to ar comdusion : the 
first thing we had to do- was to oonmilt with U&e captain of ^te 
ship, and with his men, and know if they were willing to go to 
Japan : and while I was doing this, the young man whom my 
nei^w had left with me as my companion for my travels oame 
to me, and told me that he thcmgfat tiiat voys^ |m>mised very 
hk, and that ^ere was a great prospect of advantage, and he 
wouldbe very glad if I undertook it; but that if I would not, and 
would give Ima leave, he would go as a merchant, or how I 
pleased to order him ; liiat if ever he came to £n|^d, and I 
was there and ahve, he would render me a Mthfol account of hia 
success, wydi should be as much mme as I pleased. I was 
really loath to part with him; but considwnng the prospect of 
advantage, which really was consider6U>le^ and that he was a 
young fellow as likely to do well in it as any I knew, I inclined 
to tet hkn go ; but I %M him I would coa^dt my partner, and 



I 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



five him an answer the next day. My partner and I discoursed 
about tt» and my partner made a most generous o£Eer : You know 
it has been an unlucky ship, said he, and we both lesolve not to 
go to sea in it again ; if your steward (so he called my man) will 
▼entare? the voyage, I will leave my siiare of the vessel to hiia, 
and lot him make the best of it; aad il we live totneet in Eng- 
land, Mid he meets with success abroad, he shall account for fNW 
half of the profits of the ship*^ freight to us; the other shall be 
his own. 

If my partner, who was no way concerned wi^ my young n^M, 
made him such an offer, I coi^ do no lesis than offer him the 
same : and all the ship's (XHfnpany being willing to go with hkn, 
we made over half the ship to him in property, and took a writing 
from him, obliging him to account for the other ; and away he 
went to Japan. Hie Japan merchant proved a very punctual, 
honest man to him ; prcHected him at Japan, and got him a license 
to come on shore, which the Emropelms in general have not lately 
obtained ; paM him his freight very punctually r sent hkn to the 
Philippines, loaded with Japan and China wares, and a supercaigo 
of their own, who, trafficking wiUi the Spaniards, brought back 
European goods again, and a great ^quantity of clov«s and other 
spaces ; and there he w.as not cHily paid his freight very well, and 
at a very good price, but not being willing to sell the ship then, 
the merchant furnished him goods on ht» own account ; and vnth 
some money, and some spices of his own which he brought wiUi 
him, he went back to the Manillia to the Spaniards^ where he. 
sold his cargo very weH. Here, having got a good aoqu^ntance 
at Manilla, he gc^ his ship mdde a free ship ; and the governor of 
Manilla hired him to go to Aeapulc© in America, on the coast of 
Mexico, and gave him a license to land there, and to travel tc 
Meicico, and to pass in any Spanish ship to Europe with all his 
' men. He made the voyage to Acapuloo^ very happily, and there 
he sold his ship ; and having there also obtained allowance to 
travel by land to Porto Bello, he found means^ somehow or other, 
to get to Jsunaica, with all his treasure ; and about eight years 
after came to England exceeding rich, of ^idi I shall take notice 
in its place ; in the meantime, I return to our particular af!kirs. 

Being now to part with the ship smd ship's company, it came 
before us, of course to consider what recompense we should give 
to the two men that gave us such timely notice of the design 
against us in th6 river Cambodia. The truth was, they had done 
us a very considerable servicie, and deserved well at our hands ; 
though, by the way, they were a couple of rogues too ; for as 
^ey believed the story of our being pirates, and that we had 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



424 ADTKNTimcs or 

really run away with Uie ship, they came down to us not only to 
betray the design that was formed against us, but to go to sea 
with us as pirates ; and one of them confessed afterward ikaX 
nothing else but the hopes of going a roguing brought bim to do 
it : however, the service they did us was not the less ; and, tiiere- 
fore, as I had promised to be grateful to them, I first ordered ^ 
money to be paid them which they said was due to them on 
board their respective ships ; over and above that, I gave each of 
them a small sum of money in gold, which coiitented them very 
well ; then I made the Englishman gunner in the ship, the gun- 
ner being now made second mate and parser ; ^e Dutchnoan I 
made boatswain; ^o they wete both very well pleased, and 
proved very serviceable, being both able seamen, and very stout 
fellowe. 

We were now on shore in China : if I thought myself banisb 
ed and remote from my own country at Beng^ where I had man^ 
ways to get home for my money, what could I think of myseli 
now, when I was g(rt about a thousand leagues farther off from 
home, and perfectly destitute of all manner of prospect of return t 
All we had for it was this, that in about four monks' time there 
was to be another fair at the place where we were, and then we 
might be able to purchase all sorts of the manufactures of the 
country, and withal might possibly find some Chinese junks oi 
vessels from Tonquin, that would be to be sold« and would carry 
us and our goods whither we pleased. This I liked very well, 
and resolved to wait : besides, as our particular persons were not 
obnoxious, so if any English or Dutch ships came thidier, p^haps 
we might have an opportuni^ to load our goods, and get pai^sage 
to s<»ne other j^ace in India, nearer home. Upon these hopes 
we resolved to continue here ; but, to divert ourselves, we took 
two or ^uree journeys into the coun^. First, we went ten days 
ioumey to the city of Nanquin, a city well vfofih seeing, indeed ; 
they say it has a million ^f people in it : it is regularly built, the 
streets all exactly sUaight, and cross one another in direct lines, 
which gives the figure of a great advantage. But when I ojme 
to compare the miserable people of these countries with ours, 
their fabrics^ their manner of living, theiy government, their re- 
ligion, their wealthy and their glory, as some call it, I must con- 
iess that I scarcely think it wortii my while to mention them here* 
It is very observable, that we wonder at the grandeur, the riches, 
the pomp, the ceremonies, the government, the manufacturcfs, the 
commerce, and conduct of these people ; not that it is to be won- 
dered at, or, indeed, in the least to be regarded, but because, hav- 
ing a true notion of the barbarity of those rountries, fhe rudeness 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CR0SaV. 425 

and the ignorance that prevail there, we do not expect to find 
any such thing so flir off. Otherwise, what are their buildings to 
Ae palaces and royal buildings of Europe 1 What their trade to 
the universal commerce of England, Holland, France, and Spain ? 
What are their cities to ours, for wealth, strength, gayety of ap» 
parel, rich furniture, and infinite variety 1 What are their ports, 
supplied with a fow junks and barks, to our navigation, our mer- 
chant fleets, our large and powerful navies ? Our city of London 
has more trade tiian half their mighty empire: one English, 
Dutch, or French man-of-war of eighty guns, would be able to 
fight almost all the shipping belonging to China : but- the great- 
ness of their wealth, their trade, the power of their government, 
and the strength of their armies, may be a little surprising to us, 
because, as I have said, considering them as a barbarous nation 
of pagans, little better than savages, we did not expect such diings 
among them : and this, indeed, is the advantage with which all 
their greatness and power is represented to us ; otherwise, it is 
in itself nothing at all ; for what I have said of their ships may 
be said of their armies and troops : all the forces of their empire, 
though they were to bring two millions of men into the field to- 
gether, would be able to do nothing but ruin the country, and 
starve themselves, if they were to besiege a strong town in 
Flanders, or to fight a disciplined army ; one good line of German 
cuirassiers, or of French cavalry, might withstand all the horse 
of China ; a million of their foot could not stand before one em- 
battled body of our infantry, posted so as not to be surrounded, 
though they were not to be one to twenty in number ; nay, I do 
not boast if I say that thirty thousand German or English foot, 
and ten thousand horse, well managed, could defeat all the forces 
of China ; and so of our fortified towns, and of the art of our en- 
gineers in assaulting and defending towns ; there is not a forti- 
fied town in China could hold out one month against the batteries 
and attacks of a European army ; and, at the same time, all the 
armies of China could never take such a town as Dunkirk, pro- 
vided it was not starved ; no, not in a ten years' siege. They 
have fire-arms, it is true, but they are awkward and uncertain in 
their going Off; and their powder has but little strength. Their 
armies are badly disciplined, and want skill to attack, or tempei 
tO/^etreat ; and, therefore, I must confess, it seemed strange to 
me, when 1 came home, and heard our people say such fine things 
of the power, glory, magnificence, and trade of the Chinese ; be- 
cause, as far as 1 saw, they appeared to be a contemptible herd 
or crowd of ignorant sordid slaves, subjected to a govemmem 
qualified only to rule such a people ; and were not its distance 

86» 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



420 A9TS1ITU1I98 OF 

incoiieeivably gnat from Muscovy, and the Muscovite emplie in 
A manDer as rude, impotent, and iU governed as th^y, the Czar of 
Muscovy mif hi with ease drive them all out of their country, and 
conquer them in one campaign : and had the czar (who is now a 
growing pcince) faUen t-iis way, instead of attacking the warlike 
Swedes, and equally unproved himself in the art of war* as they 
say he has done ; and if none of the powers of Europe had envied 
€Nr interrupted him, he m^ht by this time have been emperor ol 
China, instead of being beaten by the Kii^ of Sweden at Narva> 
when the latter was not one to. siz ia number^ As their strength 
and their grandeur, so their navigation, commerce, and husbandry 
are very imperfect, compared to the same things in £urope : also 
in their knowledge, their learning, and in their skill in the sciences, 
they are either very awkward or defective, though they have globes 
and ^beres, and a smattering of the mathematics, and think they 
know more than all the world besides ; but they know little of 
the motions of the heavenly bodies : and so grossly and absurdly 
ignorant are their common people, that when the sun is eclipsed, 
they think a great dragon has assaulted it, and is going to run 
away with it ; and they fall a clattering with all the drums and 
kettles in the country, to fright the monster away, just as we do 
to hive a swarm of bees«. 

As this is the only excursion of the kind which I have made in 
all the accounts I have given pf my travels, so. I shall make no 
more such ; it is none of my business, nor any part of my design ; 
but to give an account of my own adventures through a life of in- 
imitable wanderings, and a long variety of changes, which, per- 
haps, few that come after me will have heard the like of: I shall 
therefore say very little of all the mighty places, desert countries, 
and numerous people I have yet to pass through, more than re- 
lates to my own story, and which oiy concern among them will 
Bake necessary. 



Digitized 



by Google 



SECTION XLIll. 

lOCHNEY TO PEKIN. — ROnVU&S JOIKS A CARAVAN PROCEEI»tN« TO MOflOOW 
— BBNCOUNTE&JI W}TH T^S TAETA&S. 

I WAS now, as near as 1 can compute, in the heart of China. 
About thirty degrees north of the line, for we were returned from 
IQ^anquin : I had, indeed, a mind to see the city of Pekin, which I 
had heard so much of, and Father Simon importuned me daily to 
do it. At length his time of going away being set, and the other 
missionary who was to go with him being arrived from Macao, it 
was necessary that we should resolve either to go or not ; so I 
referred it' wholly to my partner, and left it wholly to his choice, - 
who at length resolved it in the affirmative, and we prepared for 
our journey. We set out with very good advantage as to finding 
the way, for we got leave to travel in the retinue of one of their 
mandarins, a kind of viceroy or principal magistrate in the prov- 
ince where they reside, and who take great state upon them, trav- 
elling with great attendance, and with great homage from the peo- 
ple, who are sometimes greatly empoverished by them, being 
obliged to furnish provisions for them and all their attendants in 
their journeys. That which 1 particularly observed, as to our 
travelling with his baggage, was titiis, that though we received suf. 
ficient provisions both for ourselves and our horses from the coun- 
try, as belonging to the mandarin, yet we were obliged to pay for 
every thing we had, after the market-price of the country, and the 
mandarin's steward collected it duly from us ; so that our travel- 
ling in the retinue of the mandarin, though it was a very great 
kindness to us, was not such a might^r favour in him, but was a 
great advantage to him, considering above thirty other people trav- 
elling in the same manner besides us, under the protection 0/ 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



1 



42ft ABTBirn?AG8 OP 

his retinue ; for the country fupnished all the piovisions for DottK 
ing^to him, and yet he took our money for them. 

We were twenty -five days traTeUing to Pekin, through a coun- 
try infinitely populous, but I think badly cultivated ; the husband- 
ry, the economy, and the way of living miserable, though they 
boast so much of the industry of the people ; I say miserable, if 
compared with our own, but not * ' * i who 

know no other. The pride of tl t, and 

exceeded by nothing but their po i adds 

to that which I call their misery k the 

naked savages of America live m >oorer 

sort of these, because, as they ha noth- 

ing ; whereas these are proud ai n are 

in many parts mere beggars and < is in- 

expressible ; and, if they can, they love to keep multitudes of ser- 
vants or slaves, which is to the last degree ridiculous, as well as 
the contempt of all the world but ^emselves. 

I must confess I travelled more pleasantly afterward in the 
deserts and vast wilderness of Grand Tartary than here ; and yet 
the roads here are well paved and well kept, and very convenient 
for travellers : but nothing was more awkward to me than to see 
such a haughty, imperious, insolent people, in the midst of the 
grossest simplicity and ignorance ; and my friend Father Simon 
and I used to be very merry upon these occasions, to see the beg- 
garly pride of these people : for example, coming by the house 
of a country gentleman, as Father Simon called him, about ten 
leagues off the city of Nanquin, we had first of all the honour to 
ride with the master of the house about two miles ; the state he 
rode in was a perfect Don Quixotism, being a mixture of pomp 
and poverty. His habit was very proper for a scaramouch or 
merry-andrew, being a dirty calico with hanging sleeves, tassels, 
and cuts and slashes almost on every side ; it covered a taffeta 
vest, as greasy as a butcher^s, and wMch testified that his honour 
must be a most exquisite sloven. His horse was but a poor, 
starved, hobbling creature, and he had two slaves followed him 
on foot to drive the poor creature along ; he had a whip in his 
hand, and he belaboured the beast as fast about the head as his 
slaves did about the tail ; and thus he rode by us, with about ten 
or twelve servants, going from the city to his country-seat, about 
half a league before us. We travelled on gently, but this figure 
of a gentleman rode away before us, and as we stopped at a vil- 
lage about an hour to refresh us, when we came by the country 
seat of this great man, we saw him in a little place before his 
door, eating his repast. It was a kind of a garden, but he was 



Digitized 



by Google 



ROBINSON CB08OV. 429 

easy to be «eeii ; and we were given to understand that the more 
we looked at him the better he would be pleased. He sat under 
a tree somethiag like the palmetto, whith effectually shaded him 
over the head, and on the south side ; but under the tree was also 
placed a large umbrella^ which made that pmrt look well enough ; 
he sat lolling back in a great elbow-chair, being a heavy, corpu- 
lent man, and had his meat brought him by two women slaves ; he 
had two more, one of which fed the squire with a spoon, and the 
other held the dish with one hand, and scraped off what he let 
fall open his worship's beard and taffeta vest with the other; 
while the great fat brute thought it below him to employ his own 
hands in any of those familiar offices which kings and monarchs 
would rather do than be troubled with the clumsy fingers of their 
seirants. 

1 took this time to tiiink what pains men's pride puts them to, 
and how troublesome a haughty temper, thus ill managed, must be 
to a man of common sense ; and leaving the poor wretch to please 
himself with our looking at him, as if we admired his pomp, 
though we really pitied and contemned him, we pursued our jour- 
ney ; only Father Simon had the curiosity to stay to inform hitii- 
«elf what dainties the country justice had to feed on in all his 
state, which he had the honour to ta^e of, and which was, I think, 
a^mess of boiled rice, with a great piece of garlic in it, and a little 
bag EUed with green pepper, and ano^r plant which they have 
there, some^ng like our ginger, but smelling like musk, and 
tasting like mustard ; all this was put together, and a small piece 
of lean mutton boiled in it, and this was his worship's repast ; 
four or five servants more attended at a distance, who, we sup- 
posed, were to eat of the same after their master. 

As for our mandarin with whom we travelled, he was respected 
as a king, surrounded always with his gentlemen, and attended in 
all his appearances with such pomp, that I saw little of him but 
at a distance ; but this I observed, that there was not a horse in 
his retinue but that our carriers' pack-horses in England seemed 
to me to look much better; though it w^s hard to judge rightly, 
for they were so covered with equipage. Mantles, trappings, &c., 
that we could scarce see any thing but their feet and their heads 
as they went along. 

I was now light-hearted, and all my trouble and perplexity that 
1 have given an account of being over^ I had no anxious thought 
about me, which made this journey the pleasanter to me ; nor had 
I any ill accident attended me, only in passing or fording a small 
nver my horse fell, and made me free of the country, as they caL 
it, that is to say, throw me in ; the place was not deep but it 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



480 ADTvimmn or 

vret me all oyer. I mention it, becaoee it spoiled my pocket* 
book, wherein 1 Imd set down the names of serveral people and 
places which I had occJhion to remember, and wfaoch, not taking 
dsecare of, the leaves rotted, and the words were neter after to 
be tead, te my great loss as to the names of msms places I 
Idttched at in * his journey. 

At length ^e arrived at Pekni ; I had nobody with me bm the 
youth whom my nephew the captain had given lae to attend me 
as a servant, and who proved very trusty and diligent; and my 
partner had nobody with him but e>ne servant, who mt» a kit»- 
man. Aa for the Portuguese pilot, be ' being tlestro«» to see the 
court, we bore his charges for his company, and lo use him as an 
interpreter, for he understood the language of the comitry^ and 
spoke good French, and a little English ; and, indeed, itas M 
man was a most useful imptoment to us evei^wbere ; for we had 
not been ab&ve a week at Pekin, when he came kuglmig, Ah^ 
Senhor Inglese, aaya he^ I have something to 1»I1 you will make 
your heart glad. — My heart gl«l ! says I *, what can tksU be I I 
don't know any thing in tins jcountry can eiltier give me Joy or 
grieft to any great degree.-^ Yes, yesy said the x>ld man, in bro^n 
EngUsh, make you glad, me sorry. — ^Why, said I, will it make yeu 
sorry t-^BecausSt said be, you have bceci^t me beretweinty^Uve 
days^ Journey, and will leave 010 to go bsek alone, and whkh way 
shall I get to my port alberward withmit a ship^ wi^mutm hofse, 
without pecune ; so he called money, being his bn^n Latin, of 
which be had abundance to make us merry with. In ^lort, he 
told us there was a great earavan of Museovite and PoUi^ mer- 
chants in the city, preparing to set ^mt on their jowaey by land to 
Muscovy within four or five weeks, and he was sure we would 
take thie opportunity to go with them, and Ua«e him be^nd,to go 
back alone. 

I confess I was gveatly surprised with this good imws, azid had 
scarce power to ^seek to him for some time ; but at laat 2 turned 
to him, How do you know this t said I. Are you sure it i» true ! 
— ^Yes, says he ; I met this morning in the street an old ac^^^nt- 
ance of mine, an Axmeman. who is among them; he came Idist 
from Astracan, and was demgning to go to Tonquin, where I for- 
merly knew him, but has altered his mind, a»d is now resolved 
to go with the caravan to Moscow, and so dovm the river Wolga 
to Astracftn. — ^Well, senhor, says I, do not be uneasy about being 
left to go back alone ; if this be a metiio^ for my return to Ei^- 
land, it ehall be your fault if you go back to Macao at all. We 
then went to consult together what was to. be done ; and I asked 
my partner what he thought of the pilot's news, and whether it 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBllfSOir CRU90E. 4JI1 

would suit with his affairs 1 He told me he^jj^uld do juai as X 
wotild ; ^r he had settled all his aifaii^s^'^ll at Bengal, and 
left his eSbcts in Such good hands, that^s we had made a good 
voyage l^re, if he could vest it in China silks, wrought and raw, 
such as might be worth the carriage, he would be content to go 
to England, and then make his voyage back to Bengal by that 
Company's ships. 

Having resolved upon this, we agreed that if our Portuguese 
pilot would go with us, we would bear his charges to Moscow, or 
to England, if he pleased ; nor, indeed, were we to be esteeiUed 
over- generous in that neither, if we had not rewarded him farther, 
^le service he had done us being really worth more than that : for 
he had not <^y beien a pilot to us at sea, but he had been like a 
broker for us on shore ; and his procuring fcnr us the Japan mer- 
chant was soine hundreds of pounds in our pockets. So we con- 
sulted together about it, and being vrilling to gratify him, which 
was but doing him justice, and very willing also to have him vvitb 
us besides, for he Was a most necessary man on all occaBions, we 
agreed to give him a quantity of coined gold, wttch, as I compute 
it, came to about one hundred and seventy-five pounds sterling 
between us,' and to bear all hi^ charges, both for himself and 
horse, except only a horse to carry his goods. Having settled . 
this between ourselves, we called him to let Win know what we 
had resolved. I told him he had complained of our being to let 
him go back alone, and I was now to tell hun we were resolved 
he should not go back at all ; that as we had resolved to go to 
Europe with the caravan, we resolved also he «houM go with us ; 
and that we called him to know his mind. He shook his head, 
and said it was a long journey, and he had no pecune to carry 
him thither, or ta subsist himself when he came there. We told 
him we believed it was so, and therefore we had resolved to do 
something for him that should let him see how sensible we were 
of the service he had done us, and also how agreeable he was to 
us ; and then I told him What we had resolved to give him here, 
which he might lay out as we would do our own ; and that as for 
his charges, if he would go with us, we would set him safe on 
shore (life and casualties excepted) either in Muscovy Or Eng- 
land, which he would, at our own charge, except only the x»r- 
riage of his goods. He received the proposal like a man trans- 
ported, and told us he would go with us over the whole world ; 
and so w All pre^red^for our journey. However, as it was with 
us, so it was with the oAer merchants ; they had many things to 
do ; and instead of being* ready in five weeks, it was four months 
and some days before all things were got together. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



432 AOyKNTURBS OP 

It was the banning of February, our atyle, when we set ^^ 
(torn Pekin. Nty partner and the old pilot had gone express back 
to the port where we Atd first put in, to dispose of some goods 
which we had left there ; and I, with a Chinese merchant, whom 
1 had some knowle<%e of at Nanquin, and who came to Pekin on 
his own affairs, wem to Nanquin^ where I bought ninety pieces 
of fine damasks, with about two hundred pieces of other very fine 
silks of several dorts, some mixed with gold, and had all these 
brought tQ Pekin against my partner's return r besides this, we 
bought a very large quantity of raw silk, and some other goods, 
omr cargo amounting, in these goods only, to about three thousand 
five hundred pounds sterling ; which, together with tea and som« 
fine calicoes, and ^ee camels' loads of nutmegs and cloves, 
loaded in all eighteen camels for our share, besides those we rode 
upon ; which, with two or tluree spare horses, and two horses 
loaded with provisions, made us, in short, twenty-six caoiels and 
horses in our retinue. 

The' company was very great, and, as ne%r as I can remember, 
made between three and four hundred, horse, and upwards of one 
hundred and twenty m^n, very well armed, and provided for all 
events : for as the eastern caravans are subject to be attacked by 
the Arabs, so are tiiese by the Tartars ; but they are not alto^ 
gether so dangerous as the Arabs, nor so barbaroisi, when they 
prevail. 

The company consisted of people of several nations f but there 
were above sixty of them merchants or inhabitants of 'Moscow, 
though of them some were Livonians ; and to our particular sat- 
isfaction, ^ye of them were Scots, who ai^ared also to be men 
of great experience in business, and of very good substance. 

When we had travelled one day's Journey, the guides, who 
were five in number, called all the gentlemen and merchants : 
that is to say, all the passengers except the servants, to a greit 
council, as they called it At this council every one deposited 
a certain quantity of money to a common stock, for the neces- 
sary expense of baying forage on the wray, where, it was not 
otherwise to be hadt and for satisfjring the guides, getting horses, 
and the like : and here they constituted the journey, as ttiey call 
it, viz. : they named captains and officers to draw us all up, and 
give the word of" command in case of an attack^ and give every 
one their turn of command ; nor was this forming us into order 
tijixy mqre than what we found needful upon the wayv as shall be 
observed* 

The road all on this side of the country is very populous, and 
is full of potters and earth-makers :' that is to say, people that 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOC 433 

temper the earth for the China-ware ; and as I was coming along, 
our Portugal pilot, who had always something or other to say to 
make us merry, came sneering to me, and told me he would show 
me the greatest rarity in all the country, and that I should have 
this to say of China, after all the ill-humoured things I had said 
of it, that I had seen one thing which was not to be seen in all 
tho world beside. I was very importunate to know what it was : 
at last he told me it was a gentleman's house built with China- 
ware. Well, s'ays I, are not the materials of their buildings the 
product of their own country, and so it is all China-ware, is it 
not ? — No, no, says he, I mean it is a house all made of China- 
ware, such as you call it in England, or as it is called in our 
country, porcelain. — ^Well, says I, such a thing may be; how 
big is it ? Can we carry it in a box upon a camel ? If we 
can, we will buy it. — Upon a camel ! says the old pilot, holding 
up jboth his hands ; why there is a family. of thirty people lives 
in it. 

I WIS then curious, indeed, to see it ; and when I came to it, 
it wa9 nothing but this : it was a timber-house, or a house built, 
ak we call it in England, with lath and plaster ; but all this plas- 
tering was really China-v«Kire,: that is to say, it was plastered 
with the earth that makes China-ware. The outside, which the 
sun shone hot upon, was glazed, and looked very well, perfectly 
white, and painted with blue figures, as the large China-ware in 
England is painted, and hard as if it had been burnt. As to 
the inside, all the walls, instead of wainscot, were lined with 
hardened and painted tiles, like the little square tiles we call 
galley-tiles in England, all made of the finest China, and the 
figures exceeding fine, indeed, with extraordinary variety of 
colours, mixed with gold ; many tiles making but one figure, but 
joined so artificially, the mortar being made of the same earth, 
that it was very hard to see where the tiles met. The floors of 
the rooms were of the same composition, and as hard as the 
earthen floors we have in use in several parts of England ; as 
hard as stone, and smooth, but not burnt and painted, except 
some smaller rooms, like closets, which were all, as it were, pave« 
with the same tile ; the ceiling, and all the plastering work in the 
whole house, were of the same earth ; and, after all, the roof 
was covered with tiles of the same, but of a deep shining black. 
Tliis was a Chma warehouse, indeed, truly and literally to be 
calle 1 so, and had I not been upon the journey, I could have 
stayed some days to see and examine the particulars of it. They 
told me /lere were fountains and fishponds in the garden, all 
paved on the bottom and sides with the same ; and fine statues 

37 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



434 ADVBNTURC9 UF 

net up in rows on the walks, entirely formed of the porcelain 
earth, and burnt whole. 

As this is one of the singularities of China, so they may be 
allowed to excel in it ; but I am very sure they excel in their 
accounts of it ; for they told me such incredible things of their 
performance in crockery ware, for such it is, that I care not to 
relate, as knowing it could not be true. They told me, in par- 
ticular, of one workman, that made a ship with all its tackle, and 
masts, and sails, in earthenware, big enough to carry fifty men 
If they had told me he launched it, and made a voyage to Japap 
in it, I might have said something to it, indeed ; but as it was, 1 
knew the whole of the story, which was, in short, asking pardon 
for the word, that the fellow lied ; so I smiled, and said noth- 
ing to it. 

This odd sight kept me two hours behind the caravan, for 
which the leader of it for the day fined me about the yalue of 
three shillings ; and told me, if it had been three days' journey 
without the wall, as it was three days within, he must have fined 
me four times as much, and made me ask pardon the next coun- 
cil day : I promised to be more orderly ; and, indeed, I found 
afterward the orders made for ksepifig all together were abso- 
lutely necessary for our common safety. 

In two days more we passed the great China wall, made for a 
fortification against the Tartars ; and a very great work it is 
going over hills and mountains in a needless track, where the 
rocks are impassable, and the precipices such as no enemy could 
possibly enter, or indeed climb up, or where, if they did, no wall 
could hinder them. They tell us its length is near a thousand 
English miles, but that the country is five hundred in a straight 
measured line, which the wall bounds, without measuring the 
windings and turnings it takes ; it is about four fathoms high, 
and as many thick in some places. 

I stood still an hour, or thereabout, without trespassing our 
orders (for so long the caravan was in passing the gate), to look 
at it on every side, near and far oiF, I mean that was within my 
view ; and the guide of our caravan, who had been extolling it 
for the wonder of the world, was mighty eager to hear my opinion 
of it. I told him it was a most excellent thing to keep out the 
Tartars ; which he happened not to understand as I meant it, 
and so took it for a compliment ; but the old pilot laughed : Oh, 
Senhor Inglese, says he, you speak in colours. — In colours! 
•aid I ; what do you mean by that 1 — ^Why you speak what looks 
white this way, and black that way; gay one way, and dull 
•no&er. You tell him it is a good wall to keep out Tartars, i 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSOK CRV80C. 43iS 

fou tell me by that it is good for nothing but to keep out Tartars 
I understand you, Senhor Inglese ; I und^stand you ; but Sen- 
hor Chinese understood you his own way. — ^Well, says I, senhor, 
do you think it would stand out an army of our country people, 
with a good train of artillery, or our engineers, with two compa- 
nies of miners ? Would not they batter it down in ten days, 
that an army might enter in battalia ; or blow it up in the air, 
foundation and all, that there should be no sign of it left ! — Ay, 
ay, says he, I know that. The Chinese wanted mightily to know 
what I said, and I gave him leave to tell him a few days after, 
for we were then almost out of their country, and he was to 
leave us in a little time after this ; but when he knew what I 
said, he was dumb all the rest of the way, and we heard no more 
of his fine story of the Chinese power and greatness while he 
stayed. 

After we passed this mighty nothing, called a wall, something 
like the Picts' wall, so famous in Northumberland, built by the 
Romans, we began to find the country thinly inhabited, and the 
people rather c<mfined to live in fortified towns and cities, as be- 
ing subject to the inroads and depredations of the Tartars, who 
rob in great armies, and therefore are not to be resisted by the 
naked inhabitants of an open country. And here I began to find 
the necessity of keeping together in a caravan as we travelled, 
for we saw several troops of Tartars roving about ; but when I 
came to "see them distinctly, I wondered more that the Chinese 
empire could be conquered by such contemptible fellows ; for 
they are a mere horde of wild fellows, keeping no order, and 
understanding no discipline or manner of fight. Their horses are 
poor lean creatures, taught nothing, and fit for nothing ; and this 
we found the first day we saw them, which was after we entered 
the wilder part of the country. Our leader for the day gave 
leave for about sixteen of us to go a hunting, as they call it, and 
what was this but hunting of sheep ; however, it may be called 
hunting too, for the creatures are the wildest and swiftest of foot 
that ever I saw of their kind ; only they will not run a great 
way, and you are sure of sport when you begin the chase, for they 
appear generally thirty or forty in a flock, and, like true sheep, 
always keep together when they fly. 

In pursuit of this odd sort of game, it was our hap to meet 
with about forty Tartars ; whether they were hunting mutton as 
we were, or whether they looked for another kind of prey, we 
know not ; but as soon as they saw us, one of them blew a kind 
of horn very loud, but with a barbarous sound that I had never 
beard before, and, by the way, never care to hear again ; we aH 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



438 ADTEMTURSS OF 

supposed Uiis ni as to call their friends about them, and so it was ; 
for io less than ten minutes, a troop of forty or fifty more ap- 
peared at about a mile distance ; but our work was over first, as 
it happened. 

One of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened to be among 
us, and as soon as he heard the horn he told us that we had noth- 
ing to do but to charge them immediately, without loss of time ; 
and drawing us up in a line, he asked if we were resolved. We 
told him we were ready to follow him ; so he rode directly to- 
wards them. They stood gazing at us like a mere crowd, dirawn 
up in no order, nor showing the face of any order at all ; but as 
soon as they saw us advance, they let fiy their arrows, which, 
however, missed us very happily : it seems they mistook not their 
aim, but their distance ; for their arrows all fell a little short of 
us, but with so true an aim, that had we been about twenty yards 
nearer, we nmst have had several men wounded, if not kUled. 

Immediately we halted, and though it was at a great distance, 
we fired, and sent them leaden bullets for wooden arrows, fol* 
lowing our shot full gallop, to fall m among them sword in hand, 
for so our bold Scot that led us directed. He was, indeed, but 
a merchant, but he behaved with that vigour and bravery on this 
occasion, and yet with such cool courage too, that I never saw 
any man in action fitter for command. As soon as we came up 
to them, we fired our pistols in their faces, and then drew ; but 
they fled in the greatest confusion imaginable. The only stand 
any of them made was on our right, where three of them stood, 
and, by signs, called the rest to come back to them, having a 
kind of cimetor in their hands, and their bows hanging to their 
backs. Our brave commander, without asking anybody to fol- 
low him, gallops up close to them, and with his fusee knocks one 
of them off his horse, killed the second with his pistol, and the 
third ran away ; and thus ended our fight : but we had this mis- 
fortune attending it, that all our mutton we had in chase got away. 
We had not a man killed or hurt ; but as for the Tartars, there 
were about five of them killed ; how many were wounded, we 
knew not ; but this we knew, that the other party were so fright- 
ened with the noise of our guns, that they made off, and never 
made any attempt upon us. 

We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and there- 
fore the Tartars were not so bold as afterward ; but in about five 
days we entered a vast, great, wild desert, which held us three 
days and nights^ march ; and wo were obliged to carry our water 
with us in great leathern bottles, and to encamp all night, just as 
I have heard they do in the desert of Arabia. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 437 

I asked our guides whose dominion this was in ; and they told 
me this was a kind of border, that might be called no man's 
land, being a part of great Karakathay, or Grand Tartary ; but, 
however, it was all reckoned as belonging to China, but that there 
was no care taken here to preserve it ftotk the inroads of thieves, 
and therefore it was reckoned the worst desert in the whole 
march, though we were to go over some much larger. 

In passing this wilderness, which was at first very frightful to 
me, we saw, two or three times, little parties of the Tartars, but 
they seemed to be upon their own affairs, and to have no design 
upon us : and so, like the man who met the devil, if they had 
nothing to say to us, we had nothing to say to them ; we let them 
go. Once, however, a party of them came so near as to stand* 
and gaze at us ; whether it was to consider if they should attack 
us or not, we knew not ; but when we were passed at some dis- 
tance by them, we made a rear guard of forty men, and stood 
ready for them, letting the caravan pass half a mile or there- 
abouts before us : but after a while they marched off; only we 
found they saluted us with five arrows at their parting, one of 
which wounded a horse, so that it disabled him, and we left him 
the next day, poor creature, in great need of a good farrier : 
they might shoot more arrows, which might fall short of us, but 
we saw no more arrows or Tartars that time. 

We travelled near a month after this, the ways not being so 
good as at first, though still in the dominions of the Emperor of 
China, but lay for the most part in villages, some of which were 
fortified, because of the incursions of the Tartars. When we 
were come to one of these towns (it was about two days and a 
half journey before we were to come to the city of Naum), I 
wanted to buy a camel, of which there ^re plenty to be sold all 
the way upon that road, and horses also, such as they are, be- 
cause so many caravans coming that way they are often wanted. 
The person that I spoke to to get me a camel would have gone 
and fetched one for me ; but I, like a fool, must be officious, and 
go myself along with him : the place was about two miles out 
of the village, where it seems they kept the camels and horses 
feeding under a guard. 

I walked it on foot, with my old pilot and a Chinese, being 
very desirous of a little variety. When we came to the place, 
it was a low marshy ground, walled round with a stone wall, 
piled up dry, without mortar or earth among it, like a park, with 
a little guard of Chinese soldiers at the door. Having bought a 
camel, and agreed for the price, I came away, and the Chinese- 
man that went with me led the camel, when on a sudden csmo 

37* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



488 AOTBHTUBIS OF 

up fire Tartars on horseback ; two of them seized the iellow 
and took the camel from him, while the other three stei^d up to 
me and my old pilot, seeing us, as it were, unarmed, for I had 
no weapon about me but my sword, which could but ill defend 
me against three horsemen. The first that came up stopped 
short upon my drawing my sword, for they are arrant cowuds ; 
but a second coming upon my left, gave me a blow on the head, 
which I never felt till aiterward, and wondered, when I came to 
myself, what was the matter, and where I was^ for he laid me 
flat on the ground ; but my never-failing old pilot, the Portuguese 
(so Providence, unlocked for, directs deliverances from dangers 
which to us are unforeseen), had a pistol in his pocket, vfhkh I 
knew nothing of, nor the Tartars neither ; if they had, I suppose 
they would not have attacked us ; but cowards are always bold* 
est when there is no danger. The old man seeing me dovm, 
with a bold heart stepped up to the fellow that had struck me, 
and laying hold of his arm with one hand, and puUing him dovra 
by main force a little towards him with the other, shot him in the 
head, and laid him dead upon the spot He then immediately 
stepped up to him who had stepped us, as I said, and before he 
could come forward again, made a blow at him with a cimeter 
which he always wore, but missing the man, cut his horse in the 
side of his head, cut one of the ears off by the root, and a great 
slice down by the side of his face. The poor beast, enraged 
with the wound, was no more to be governed by his rider, though 
the fellow sat well enough too, but away he dew, and carried him 
quite out of the pilot's reach ; and at some distance rising upon 
his hind legs, threw down the Tartar, and fell upon him. 

In this interval the poor Chinese came in who had lost the 
camel, but he had no weapon : however, seeing the Tartar down, 
and his horse fallen upon him, away he runs to him, and seizing 
upon an ugly ill-favoured weapon he had by his side, something 
like a poleaxe, but not a pdeaxe neither, he virrenched it frcnn 
him, and made shift to knock his Tartarian brains out with it 
But my old man had the third Tartar to deal with still ; and see- 
ing he did not fly as he expected, nor come on to fight him, as 
he apprehended, but stand stock still, the old man stood still too, 
and fell to work with his tackle, to charge his pistol again ; but 
as soon as the Tartar saw the pistol, away he scoured, and left 
my pilot, my champion I called him afterward, a complete victory. 

By this time I was a little recovered ; for I thought, when I first 
began to wake, that I had been in a sweet sleep ; but, as I sa^d 
above, I wondered where I was, how I came upon the ground, and 
what was the matter ; but a few moments after, as sense retuineill 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBWaON CRUBOB. ^9 

I felt pain, though I did not know where ; so I clapped my hand 
to my head, and took it away bloody ; then I felt my head ache ; 
and then, in a moment, memory returned, and every thing was 
present to me again. I jumped upon my feet instantly, and got 
hold of my sword, but no enemies in view : I found a Tartar lie 
dead, and his horse standing very quietly by him ; and, looking 
farther, I saw my champion and deliverer, who had been to see 
what the Chinese had done, coming back with his hanger in his 
hand : the old man, seeing me on my feet, came running to me, 
and embraced me with a great deal of joy, being afraid before 
that J had been killed ; and seeing me bloody, would see how I 
was hurt ; but it was not much, only what we call a broken head ; 
neither did I afterward find any great inconvenience from the blow, 
for it was well again in two or three days. 

We made no great gain, however, by this victory, for we lost a 
camel and gained a horse ; but that which was remarkable, when 
we came back to the village, the man demanded to be paid for 
the camel ; I disputed it, and it was brought to a hearing before the 
Chinese judge of the place. To give him his due, he acted with 
a great deal of prudence and impartiahty ; and, having heard both 
sides, he gravely asked the Chinese man that went with me to buy 
the camel whose servant he was t I am no servant, says he, but 
went with the stranger. — ^At whose request 1 says the justice. At 
the stranger's request, says he. Why then, says the justice, you 
were the stranger's servant for the time ; and the cstmel being de- 
livered to his servant, it was delivered to him, and he must pay 
for it. 

I confess the thing was so clear that I had not a word to say : 
but, admiring to see such just reasoning upon the consequence, and 
an accurate stating of the case, I paid willingly for the camel, and 
sent for another ; but, you may observe, I did not go to fetch it 
myself any more, for 1 had had enough of that. 

The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese empire ; they 
call it fortified, and so it is, as fortifications go there ; for this I 
will venture to aflSrm, that all the Tartars in Karakathay, which, 
I believe, are some millions, could not batter down the walls with 
their bows and arrows ; but to call it strong, if it were attacked 
with cannon, would be to make those that understand it laugh at 
you. 

We wanted, as I have said, above two days' journey of this 
city, when messengers were sent express to every part of the road, 
to tell all travellers and caravans to halt till they had a guard 
sent for them ; for that an unusual body of Tartars, making tpr 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



MP • ADTIHTURM OF 

thousand in all, had appeared in the way, about thirty miles be« 
yond Ihe city. 

This was very bad news to travellers ; however, it was care- 
fully done of the governor, and we were very glad to hear we 
should have a guard. Accordingly, two days after, we had two 
hundred soldiers sent us from a garrison of the Chinese, on our 
left, and three hundred more from Uie city of Naum, and with 
these we jadvanced boldly : the three hundred soldiers from Naum 
mardied in our front, the two hundred in our rear, and our men 
on each side of our camels, with our baggage, and the whole car- 
avan in the centre ; in this order, and well prepared for bat- 
tle, we thought ourselves a match for the whole ten thousand 
Mogul Tartars, if Uiey had appeared ; but the next day, when they 
did appear, it was quite another thing. 

It was early in the morning, when, marching from a well-situ- 
ated little town, called Changu, we had a river to pass, which we 
were obliged to ferry ; and, had the Tartars any intelligence, then 
had been the time to have attacked us, when, the caravan being 
over, the rearguard was behind ; but they did not appear there. 
About three hours after, when we were entered upon a desert of 
about fifteen or sixteen miles over, behold, by a cloud of dust they 
raised, we saw an enemy was at hand ; and they were at hand, 
indeed, for they came on upon the spur. 

The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had talked so big the 
day before, began to stagger ; and the soldiers frequently looked 
behind them, which is a certain sign in a soldier that he is just 
ready to run away. My old pilot was of my mind ; and, being 
near me, called out, Senhor Inglese, says he, those fellows must 
be encouraged, or they will ruin us all ; for if the Tartars come 
on, they will never stand it. — ^I am of your mind, said I : but what 
must be done 1 — Done ! says he, let fifty of our men advance, and 
flank them on each wing, and encourage them ; and they will fight 
like brave fellows in brave company ; but, without this, they will 
every man turn his back. Immediately I rode up to our leader, 
and told him, who was exactly of our mind ; and accordingly fifty 
of us marched to the right wing, and fifty to the left, and the rest 
m^de a line of rescue ; and so we marched, leaving the last two 
hundred men to make a body by themselves, and to guard the 
camels ; only that, if need were, they should send a hundred men 
to assist the last fifty. 

In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable company 
they were : how many we could not t^U, but ten thousand, we* 
thought, was the least : a party of them came on first, and viewed 
our posture, traversing the ground in the front of our line ; and, 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 441 

OS we found them within gunshot, our leader ordered the twe 
wings to advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on each wing 
with their shot, which was done ; but they went off, and I sup- 
pose back, to give an account of the reception they were like to 
meet with ; and, indeed, that salute cloyed their stomachs, for 
they immediately halted, stood awhile to consider of it, and wheel- 
ing off to the left, they gave over their design, and said no more to 
us for that time ; which was very agreeable to our circumstances, 
which were but very indifferent for a battle with such a number. 

Two days after we came to the city of Naun, or Naum ; we 
thanked the governor for his care of us, and collected to the value 
of a hundred crowns or thereabouts, which we gave to the sol- 
diers sent to guard us ; and here we rested one day. This is a 
garrison, indeed, and there were nine hundred soldiers kept here ; 
but the reason of it was, that formerly the Muscovite frontiers lay 
nearer to them than they now do, the Muscovites having auan- 
doned that part of the country which lies from this city west for 
about two hundred miles, as desolate and unfit for use ; and more 
especially being so very remote, and so difficult to send troops 
thither for its defence : for we had yet above two thousand miles 
to Muscovy, properly so called. 

After this we passed several great rivers, and two dreadful 
deserts ; one of which we were sixteen days passing over : and 
which, as I said, was to be called no man^s land ; and, on the 
13th of April, we came to the frontiers of the Muscovite domin- 
ions. I think the first town or fortress, whichever it may be 
called, that belonged to the Czar of Muscovy, was called Arguna, 
being on the west side of the river Arguna. 
. I could not but discover an infinite satisfaction that I was so 
soon arrived in, as I called it, a Christian country, or, at least, in 
a country governed by Christians ; for though the Muscovites do, 
in my opinion, but just deserve the name of Christians, yet such 
they pretend to be, and are very devout in their way. It would 
certainly occur to any man who travels the world as I have done, 
and who had any power of reflection, what a blessing it is to be 
brought into the world where the name of God and a Redeemer is 
known, adored, and worshipped ; and not where the people, given 
up by Heaven to strong delusions, worship the devil, and pros- 
trate themselves to stocks and stones ; worship monsters, ele- 
ments, horrid-shaped animals, and statues or images of monsters. 
Not a town or city we passed through but had their pagods, their 
idols, and their temples, and ignorant people worshipping even 
the works of their own hands. Now we came where, at least, a 
face of the Christian worship appeared ; where the knee was 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



442 ADVENTURKS OF 

bowed to Jesus ; and, whether ignorantly or iiut, yet the Christian 
religion was owned, and the name of the true God was called 
upon and adored, and it made my soul rejoice to see it. I saluted 
the brave Scots merchant 1 mentioned above with my first ac- 
knowledgment of this ; and taking him by the hand, I said to him. 
Blessed be God, we are once again among Christians. He smiled^ 
and answered. Do not rejoice too soon« countryman ; these Mus 
covites are but an odd sort of Christians ; and but for the name 
of it, you may see very little of the substance for some months 
farther of our journey. Well, says I, but still it is better than 
paganism and worshipping of devils. — ^Why, I will tell you, says 
he, except the Russian soldiers in the garrisons, and a few of the 
inhabitants of the cities upon the road, all the rest of this coun- 
try, for above a thousand miles farther, is inhabited by the worst 
and most ignorant of pagans : and so, indeed, we found it. 



Digitized 



by Google 



SECTION XLIV. 

BOUTB THROUGH MUSCOVY. — ROBINSON AND A SCOTS MERCHANT DKBTIOT 
AN IDOL. — THE WHOLE CARAVAN IN GREAT PERIL PROM THE PURSUIT OF 
THE PAGANS.— TOBOLSKI. — MUSCOVITE EXILES. — DEPARTURE PROM TOBOL- 
SKI. — ENCOUNTER WITH A TROOP OP ROBBERS IN THE DESERT. — ROBIN- 
SON REACHES ARCHANGEL, AND FINALLY ARRIVES IN ENGLAND. 

Wb were now launched into the greatest piece of solid 
earth, if I understand any thing of the surface of the globe, that 
is to be found in any part of the world ; we had, at least, twelve 
thousand miles to the sea, eastward ; two thousand to the bottom 
of the Baltic Sea, westward ; and above three thousand, if we left 
that sea and went on west, to the British and French channels ; 
we had full five thousand miles to the Indian or Persian Sea, 
south ; and about eight hundred to the Frozen Sea, north. Nay, 
if some people may be believed, there might be no sea north- 
east till we came round the pole, and consequently into the north- 
west, and so had a continent of land into America, the Lord knows 
where ; though I could give some reasons why I believe that to 
be a mistake. 

As we entered into the Muscovite dominions a good while be- 
fore we came to any considerable towns, we had nothing to ob- 
serve there but this : first, that all the rivers run to the east ; as 
I understood by the charts, which some in our caravan had with 
them, it was plain all those rivers ran into the great river Yamour, 
or Amour ; which river, by the natural course of it, must run into 
the East Sea, or Chinese Ocean. The story they tell us that the 
mouth of this river is ciioked up with bukushes of a monstrou* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



444 ADTEirruRKS of 

growth, viz., three feet about, and twenty or thirty feet high, ] 
must be allowed to say, I believe nothing of it ; but, as its navi- 
gation it of no use, because there is no trade that way, the Tar- 
tan, to whom it alone belongs, dealing in nothing but cattle, so 
nobody, that ever I heard of, has been curious enough either to 
go down to the mouth of it in boats, or come up from the moutli 
of it in ships, as far as I can find : but this is certain, that this 
river running east, in the latitude of about fifty degreiss, carries a 
vast concourse of rivers along with it, and finds an ocean to empty 
itself in that latitude ; so we are sure of sea there. 

Some leagues to Uie north of this river there are several con- 
siderable rivers, whose streams run as due north as the Yamom 
runs east, and these are all found to join their waters with the 
great river Tartarus, named so from the northernmost nations of 
the Mogul Tartars ; who, as the Chinese say, were the first Tar« 
tars in the world ; and who, as our geographers allege, are the 
Gog and Magog mentioned in sacred story. These rivers run- 
ning all northward, as well as all the other rivers 1 am yet to 
speak of, make it evident that the Northern Ocean bounds the land 
also on that side ; so that it does not seem rational in the least to 
think that the land can extend itself to join with America on that 
side, or that there is not a communication between the northern 
and eastern ocean : but of this I shall say no more ; it was my 
observation at that time, and therefore I take notice of it in this 
place. 

We now advanced from the river Arguna by easy and modern- 
ate journeys, and were very visibly obliged to the care the Czar 
of Muscovy has taken to have cities and towns built in as many 
places as it is possible to place them, where his soldiers keep gar- 
rison, something like the stationary soldiers placed by the Romans 
in the remotest countries of their empire ; some of vrhlch that I 
had read of were placed in Britain, for the security of commerce, 
and for the lodging travellers : and thus it was here 4 for wher- 
ever we came, though at these towns and stations the garrisons 
and governors were Russians and professed Chjristians, yet the 
inhabitants were mere pagans ; sacrificing to idols, and worship- 
ping the sun^ moon, and stars, or all the host of heaven ; and not 
only 80, but were, of all the heathens and pagans that ever I met 
with, the most barbarous, except only that they did not eat men's 
flesh, as our savages of America did. 

Some instances of this we met with in the country between Ar- 
guna, where we enter the Muscovite dominions, and a city of Tar- 
tars and Russians together, called Nertzinskoi, in which is a con- 
tmued desert or forest, which cost us twenty days to travel over. 



Digitized by CjOOQ IC 



i 



ROBINSON CBU80B. 445 

In a village near tlie last of these places, I had the curiosity to 
go and see their way of living, whidi is most brutish and unsuf- 
ferable : they had, I suppose, a great sacrifice that day ; for there 
stood out, upon an old stump of a tree, an idol, made of wood^ 
Irightful as the devil ; at least, as any thing we can think of to 
represent the devil can be made : it had a. head not so much as 
i^sembling any creature that the world ever saw ; ears as big 
as goats' horns, and ^s high ; eyes as big as a crown piece ; 
a nose like a crooked ram*s-hom, and a mouth extended four cor- 
nered* Hke that of a lion, with horrible teeth, hooked like a par- 
rot's under bill : it was dressed up in the filthiest manner that you 
could suf^se ; its upper garment was oi sheep-skins, with the 
wool outward ; a great Tartar bonnet on the head, with two horns 
growing tluxHigh it : it was about eight feet high, yet had no feet 
or legs, nor any other proportion of parts. 

This scarecrow was set up at the outer side of the village ; 
and, when I came near to it, there • were sixteen or seventeen 
creatures, whether men or women I could not tell, for they made 
no distinction by tiieir habits, all lying fiat upon the ground 
round this formidable block of shapeless wood : I saw no motion 
among them any more than if tl^y had been all logs of wood, 
like the idol, and at first I really thought they had been so ; but, 
when I came a little nearer, they started up upon their feet, and 
raised a howling cry as if it had been so many deep-mouthed 
hounds, and walked away^as if they were displeased at our dis- 
turbing them. A little way off from the idol, and at the door of 
a tent or hut, made all of sheep-skins and cow-skins dried, stood 
three butchers, — I thought they were such ; when I came nearer 
to them, I found they had long knives in their hands ; and in the 
middle of the tent appeared three sheep killed, and one young 
bullock or steer. These, it seems, were sacrifices to that sense- 
less log of an idol; the three men were priests belonging to it, 
and the seventeen prostrated wretches were the people who 
brought the offering, and Were making their prayers to that stock. 

I confess, I was more moved at their stupidity and brutish 
worship of a hobgoblin than ever I was at any thing in my life ; 
to see God's most glorious and best creature, to whom he had 
granted so many advantages, even by creation above the rest of 
the works of his hands, vested with a reasonable soul, and that 
soul adorned with faculties and capacities adapted both to honour 
his Maker and be honoured by him, sunk and degenerated to a 
degree so very stupid as to prostrate itself to a frightful nothing 
a meriB imaginary object, dressed up by themselves, and made ter- 
rible to themselves by their own contrivance, adorned only witb 

38 



Digitized 



by Google 



440 ADTBNTUItES OF 

clouts and rags : and that this should be the effect of mere i^no 
ranee, wi ought up into hellish devotion by the devil himself 
who, envying to his Maker the homage and adoration of his crea 
tures, had deluded them into such sordid and brutish things as 
one would think should shock nature itself! 

Bat what signified all the astonishment and reflection of 
thoughts ; thus it was, and I saw it before my eyes, and there 
was no room to wonder at it, or Uiink it imp(»sible : all my ad- 
miration turned to rage, and I rode up to the image or monster, 
call it what you will, and with my sword made a stroke at the 
bonnet that was on its head, and cut it in two ; and one of our 
men that was with me took hold of the ^eep-skin that covered 
it, and pulled at it; when, behold, a most hideous outcry and 
howling ran through the village, and two or three. hundred people 
came about my ears, so that I was glad to scour for it, for we 
saw some had bows and arrows ; but I resolved from that mo* 
ment to vist them again. 

Our caravan rested three nights at tiie town, which was about 
four miles off, in order to provide some horses whidi they want- 
ed, several of the horses having been lamed and jaded with the 
badness of the way, and long march over the last desert ; so we 
had some leisure here to put my design in execution. I com- 
municated my design to the Scots merchant of Moscow, of whose 
courage I had sufficient testimony : I told him what I had seen, 
and with what indignation I had since thought that human nature 
could be so degenerate ; I told him, if I could get but four or five 
men well armed to go with me, I was resolved to go and destroy 
that vile, abominable idol, and let them see that it had no power 
to help itself; and consequenUy could not be an object of wor- 
ship, or to be prayed to, much less help them that ofiered sacri- 
fices to it. 

He laughed at me : — says he. Your zeal may be good, but what 
do you propose to yourself by it ! Propose ! said i ; to vindicate 
the honour of God, which is insulted by this devil-worship. But 
how will it vindicate the honour of Ood, said he, while tiie people 
wilt not be able to know what you mean by it, unless you could 
speak to them, and tell them so t and then they will fight you, 
ftui beat you too, 111 assure you ; for they are desperate fellows, 
and that especially in defence of their idolatry. Can we not, 
said I, do it in the niglit, and then leave them the reasons and the 
causes in writing in their own language ? Writing ! said he ; 
why there is not a man in five nations of them that knows any 
thing of a letter, oi how to read a word any way. Wretched 
ignorance ! said I to him : itowever, I have a great mjnd to do it; 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



EOBUfSOIl CRUSOE. 447 

perhaps naturd may draw inferences from it to them, to let them 
see how brutish they are to worship such horrid things. Look 
you, sir, said he, if your zeal prompts you to it so warmly, you 
must do it ; but, in the next place, I would have you consider, 
these wild nations of people are subjected by force to the Czai 
of Muscovy^s dominion, and if you do this, it is ten to one but 
they will come by thousands to the governor of Nertzinskoi, and 
demand satisfaction ; and if he cannot give them satisfaction, it 
is ten to one but they revolt ; and it will occasion a new war 
with all the Tartars in the country. 

This, I confess, put new thoughts into my head for awhile, 
but I harped upon the same string still ; and all that day I was 
uneasy to put my project in execution. Towards the evening 
the Scots merchant met me by accident in our walk about the 
town, and desired to speak with me : I believe, said he, I have 
put you off your good design; I have been a httle concerned 
about it since; for I abhor idolatry as mudi as you can do. 
Truly, said I, you have put it off a little, as to the execution of 
it, but you have not put it out of my thoughts ; and I believe I 
shall do it before I quit this place, though I were to be delivered 
up to them for satisfaction. No, no, said he, God forbid they 
should deliver you up to such a crew of monsters ! they shall not 
do that neither; that would be murdering you indeed. Why, 
said I, how would they use me 1 Use you ! said he, Til tell you 
how they served a poor Russian, who affronted them in their wor- 
ship, just as you did, and whom they took prisoner, after they had 
lamed him with an arrow, that he CQUld not run away : they took 
him and stripped him stark naked, and set him upon the top of 
the idol-monster, and stood all around him, and shot as many 
arrows into him as would stick over his whole body ; and then 
they burnt him, and all the arrows sticking in him, as a sacrifice 
to the idol. And was this the same idol ? said I. Yes, said he, 
the very same. Well, said I, I will teU you a story. So I re- 
lated the story of our men at Madagascar, and how they burnt 
and sacked the village there, and killed man, woman, and child, 
for their murdering one of our men, just as it is related before ; 
and I added, that I thought we ought to do so to this village. 

He listened very attentively to the story ; but when I talked 
of doing so to that village, said he, You mistake very much ; it 
was not this village, it was almost a hundred miles from this 
place ; but it was the same idol, for they carry him about in pro- 
cession all over the country. Well, said I, then that idol ought 
to be punished for it ; and it shall, said I, if I live this night out 

In a word, finding me resolute, he liked the design, and told 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



448 ADVEIfTURKS OF 

me I should not go alone, but he would go with roe, but he would 
go first and bring a stout fellow, one of his countrjrmen, to go also 
with us ; and one, said he, as fiunous for his zeal as you can de- 
sire any one to be against such devilish things as these. In a 
word, he brought me his comrade, a Scotsman^ whom he called 
Captain Richardson ; and 1 gave him a foil account of what I 
had seen, and also what 1 intended ; and he told me readily, he 
would go with me if it cost him his Ufe. So we agreed to go, 
only we three. I had, indeed, proposed it to my partner, but he 
declined it. He said he was ready to assist me to the utmost, 
and upon all occasions, for my defence ; but this was an adven- 
ture quite out of his way ; so, I say, we resolved upon our work, 
only we three and my man-servant, and to pttt it in execution that 
night about midnight, with all the secrecy imaginable. 

However, upon second thoughts, we were willing to delay it 
till the next night, because, the caravan being to set forward in 
the morning, we siq>posed the governor could not pretend to give 
them any satisfaction upon us when we were out of his power. 
The Scots merchant, as steady tn his resolution for the enter- 
prise as bold in executing, brought me a Tartarus robe or gown 
of sheep-sldns* and a bonnet, with a bow and arrows, and had 
provided the same for himself and his countryman, that the peo- 
ple, if they saw m, should not determine who we were. 

All the first night we spent in mixing up some combustible mat- 
ter with aqua vits, gunpowder, and such other materials as we 
could get ; and, having a good quantity of tar in a little pot, about 
an hour after night we set out upon our expedition. 

We came to the place about eleven oVlock at n^t, and found 
that the people had not the least jealousy of danger attending 
their idol. The night was cloudy ; yet the moon gave us light 
enough to see that the idol stood just in the same posture and place 
that it did before. The people seemed to be all at their rest ; only, 
that in the great hut, or tent, as we called it| where we saw the 
three priests whom we mistook for butchers, We saw a light ; and 
going up close to the door, we heard people talking as if there were 
five or six of them ; we concluded, therefore, that if we set wild- 
fire to the idol, these men would come out immediately and run up 
to the place to rescue it from the destruction that we intended for 
it; and what to do with them we knew not. Once we thought of 
carrying it away and setting fire to it at a distance, but when we 
came to handle it, we found it too bulky for our carriage ; so we 
were at a loss again. The second Scotsman was for setting 
fire to the tent or hut,^ and knocking the creatures that were there 
on the head, when they came out : but I could not join with thar * 



Digitized 



by Google 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 449 

I was against killing them, if it were possible to avoid it. Well, 
then, said the Scots merchant, I will tell you what we will do : 
we will try to make them prisoners, tie their hands, and make 
them stand and see their idol destroyed. 

As it happened, we had twine or packthread enough about us, 
which we used to tie our firelocks together with ; so we resolved 
to attack these people first, and with as little noise as we could. 
The first thing we did we knocked at the door, when, one of the 
priests coming to it, we immediatfely seized upon him, stopped 
\aa mouth, and tied his hands behind him, and led him to the idol, 
where we gagged him that he might not make a noise, tied his 
feet also together, and left him on the ground. 

Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that another 
would come out to see what the matter was ; but we waited so 
long.lill the third man came back to us ; and then nobody coming 
out, we knocked again gently,, and immediately out came two 
more, and we served them just in the same manner, but were 
obliged to go all with them, and lay them down by the idol some 
distance from one another ; when, going back, we found two 
more were come out te the door, and a third stood behind them 
within the door. We seized the two, and immediately tied them, 
when the third stepping back, and crying out, my Scots mer- 
chant went in after him, and, taking out a composition we had 
made, that would only smoke and stink, he set fire to it and 
threw it among them ; by that time the other Scotsman and my 
man, taking charge of the two men already bound, and tied to- 
gether also by the arm, led them away to the idol, and left them 
there to see if their idol would relieve them, making haste back 
to us. 

When the furze we had thrown in had filled the hut with so 
much smoke that they were almost suffocated, we then threw in 
a small leather bag of another kind, which flamed like^ a candle, 
and following it in, we found there were but four people, and, as 
we supposed, had been about some of their diabolical sacrifices. 
They appeared, iii short, frightened to death, at least so as to sit 
trembling and stupid, and not able to speak neither, for the smoke. 

In a word, we took them, bound them as we had done the 
other, and all without any noiae. I should have said we brought 
them out of the house, or hut, first ; for indeed we were not able 
to bear the smoke any more than they were. When we had 
done this, we carried them all together to the idol : when we 
came there we fell to work with him ; and first we daubed him 
all over, and his robes also, with tar, and such other atuff as we 
had, which was tallaw mixed with brimstone ; then we stopped 

38* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



450 ADTtNTURKS OF 

his ayes, and ears, and mouth full of gunpowder ; then we wrap- 
ped up a great piece of wildfire in his bonnet ; and then, sticking 
all the combustibles we had brought with us upon him, we looked 
about to see if we could find any thing else to help to bum him ; 
when my Scotsman remembered that by the tent^ or hut, where the 
men were, there lay a heap of dry forage, whether straw or rushes 
I do not remember ; away he aiul the other Scotsmiui ran and 
fetched their arms full of that. When we had done this, we 
took all our prisoners, and brought them, having untied their feet 
and ungagged their mouths, and made them stand up, and set 
them before their monstrous idol, and then set fire to the whole. 

We stayed by it a quarter of an hour or thereabouts, till the 
powder in the eyes, and mouth, and ears of the idol blew up, and, 
as we could perceive, had split and deformed the shape of it : 
and, in a word, till we saw it burnt into a mere block or log of 
wood ; and setting dry forage to it, we found it would be soon 
quite consumed ; so we began to think of going away ; but the 
Scotsman said. No, we must not go, for these poor deluded 
wretches will all thrpw themselves into the fire, and burn them- 
selves with the idol. So we resolved to stay till the forage was 
burnt down too, and then came away and left them. 

After the feat was performed, we appeared in Uie morning 
among our fellow-travellers, exceedingly busy in getting ready 
for our journey ; nor could any man suggest that we had been 
anywhere but in our beds, as travellers might be supposed to be, 
to fit themselves for the fatigues of the day's journey. 

But the affair did not end so ; the next day came a great num- 
ber of the country people to the town gates, and in a most out- 
rageous manner demanded satisfaction of the Russian governor 
for the insulting their priests, and burning iheir Cham Chi- 
Thaungu. The people of Nertzinskoi were at first in a great 
consternation, for they said the Tartars were already no less 
than thirty thousand strong. The Russian governor sent out 
messengers to appease them, and gave them all the good words 
imaginable ; assuring them that he knew nothing of it, and that 
there had not a soul in his garrison been abroad, so that it could 
not be firom anybody there ^ but if they could le% him know who 
did it, they should be exemplarily punished. They returned 
haughtily that all the country reverenced the great Cham Chi- 
Thaungu, who dwelt in the sun, and no mortal would have dared 
to offer violence to his image but some Christian miscreant ; and 
they therefore resolved to denounce war against him and all the 
Russians, who, they said, were miscreants and Christians. 

Tho gavemor, still patient, and unwilling to make a breach oc 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRl/SOS. 451 

to have any cause of war alleged to be gtven by him, the czai 
having strictly charged them to treat the conquerecl country with 
gentleness and civility, gave them still all the good words he 
could. At last he told them there was a caravan gone towards 
Russia that morning, and perhaps it was some of them who had 
done them this injury ; and that if they would be satisfied with 
that, he would send after them to inquire into it. This seemed 
to appease them a little ; and accordingly the governor sent after 
us, and gave us a particular account how the filing was ; intima- 
ting withal, that if any in our caravan had done it, they should 
make their escape ; but that, whether we had done it or no, we 
should make all the haste forward that was possible ; and that, 
in the meantime, he would keep them in play as long as he could. 

This was very friendly in the governor; however, when it 
came to the caravan, there was nobody knew any thing of the 
matter ; and as for us that were guilty, we were least of all sus- 
pected. However, the captain of the caravan for the time took 
the hint that the governor gave us, and we travelled two days 
and two nights without any considerable stop, and then we lay at 
a village called Plothus : lior did we make any long stop here, but 
hastened on towards Jarawena, another of the Czar of Muscovy^s 
colonies, and where we expected we should be safe. But upon 
the second day's march from Plothus, by the clouds of dust be- 
hind us at a great distance, some of our people began to be sensi- 
ble we were ptorsued. We had entered a great desert, and had 
passed by a great lake called Schaks Oser, when we perceived a 
very great body of horse appear on the other side of the lake, to 
the north, we travelling west. We observed they went away 
west, as we did, but had supposed we would have taken that 
side of the lake, whereas we very happily took the south side ; 
and in two days more they disappeared again : for they, believing 
we were still before them, pushed on till they came to the river 
(Jdda, a very great river when it passes farther north, but when 
we came to it we found it narrow and fordable. 

The third day they had either found their mistake or had in- 
telligence of us, and came pouring in upon us towards the dusk 
of the evening. We had, to our great satisfaction, just pitched 
upon a place for our camp, which was very convenient for the 
night ; for as we were upon a desert, though but at the beginning 
of it, that was above five hundred miles over, we had no towns 
to lodge at, and, indeed, expected none but the city Jarawena, 
which we had yet two days' march to ; the desert, however, had 
some few woods in it on this side, and little rivers, which ran all 
into the great river Udda ; it was in a narrow strait, between little 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



459 ADTKNTURCS OF 

bat ter> thick woods, that we pitched our little camp for that 
night, expecting to be attacked before morning. 

Nobody knew but ourselves what we were pursued for : but as 
ft was usual fur the Mogul Tartars to go about in troops in that 
desert, so the caravans always fortify themselves every night 
against them, as against armies of robbers ; and it was therefore 
no new thing to be pursued. 

But we had this night, of all Uie nights of our travels, a most 
advantageous camp , for we lay between two woods, with a little 
rivulet running just before our front, so that we could not be sur- 
rounded, or attacked any way but in our front or rear. We took 
care also to make our front as strong as we could, by placing our 
packs, with our camels and horses, all in a line, on the inside of 
the river, and felling some trees in our rear. 

In this posture we encamped for the night ; but the enemy was 
upon us before we had finished our situation. They did not come 
on us like thieves, as we expected, but sent three messengers to 
us, to demand the men to be delivered to them that had abused 
their priests, and burnt their god Cham Chi-Thaungu with fire, 
that they might bum them with fire ; and upon this, they said, 
they would go away, and do us no farther harm, otherwise they 
would destroy us all. Our men looked very blank at this mes- 
sage, and began to stare at one another, to see who looked with 
the most guilt in their faces : but, nobody was the word ; nobody 
did it. The leader of the caravan sent word he was well as- 
sured that it was not done by any of our camp ; that we were 
peaceable merchants, travelling on our business ; that we had 
done no harm to them or to any one else ; and that, therefore, they 
must look farther for their enemies who had injured them, for we 
were not the people ; so desired them not to disturb us, for if they 
did we should defend ourselves. 

They were far from being satisfied with this for an answer ; 
and a great crowd of them came running down in the morning, by 
break of day, to our camp ; but seeing us in such an unaccounta- 
ble situation, they durst come no farther than the brook in our front, 
where they stood, and showed us such a number that indeed ter- 
rified us very much ; for those that spoke least of them spoke of 
ten thousands Here they stood and looked at us awhile, and then 
setting up a great howl, they let fly a cloud of arrows among us ; 
but we were well enough fortified for that, for we sheltered under 
our baggage, and I do not remember that one of us was hurt. 

Some time afler this we saw them move a little to our right, 
and expected them on the rear ; when a cunning fellow, a Cossack 
of Jarawena, in the pay of the Muscovites, calling to the leadei 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 453 

of the caravan » said to him, Til go send all these pe xple away to 
Silieilka ; this was a city four or five days' journey at least to the 
right, and rather behind u& So he takes his bow and arrows, and 
getting on horseback, he rides away from our rear directly, as it 
were back to Nertzinskoi; after this he takes a great circuit 
about, and comes directly on the army of the Tartars, as if he had 
been sent express to tell them a long story, that the people who 
had burnt the Cham Chi-Thaungu were gone to Siheilka, with a 
caravan of miscreaats, as he called them, that is to say. Chris- 
tians ; and that they had resolved to bum the god Schal-Isar, be- 
longing to the Tongueses. 

As this fellow was blHiself a mere Tartar, and perfecdy spoke 
their language, he counterfeited so well that they all took it from 
him, and away they drove in a most violent hurry to Siheilka, 
which, it seems, was five days^ journey to the north ; and in less 
than three hours they were entirely out of our sight, and we never 
heard any more of them, nor whether they went to Siheilka or no. 
So we passed away safely on to Jarawena, where there was a 
garrison of Muscovites, and there we rested five days ; the car- 
avan being exceedingly fatigued with the last day's hard march, 
and with want of rest in the night. 

From this city we had a frightful desert, which held us twenty- 
Ihree days' march. We furnished ourselves with some tents 
here, for the better accommodating ourselves in the night ; and 
tiie leader of the caravan procured sixteen carriages or wagons of 
the country, for carrying our water or provisions ; and these car- 
riages were our defence, every night, round our little camp ; so 
that had the Tartars appeared, unless they had been very numer- 
ous indeed, they would not have been able to hurt us. 

We may well be supposed to want rest again after this long 
journey ; foj in tiiis desert we neither saw house nor tree, and 
scarce a bush ; though we saw abundance of the sable hunters, 
who are^ all Tartars of the Mogul Tartary, of which this country 
is a part ; and they frequently attack small caravans, but we saw 
no numbers of them together. 

After we had passed this desert, we came into a country pretty 
well inhabited ; that is to say, we ibund towns and castles, settled 
by the Czar of Muscovy, with garrisons of stationary soldiers to 
protect the caravans, and defend the country against the Tartars, 
who would otherwise make it very dangerous travelling ; and his 
czarish majesty has given such strict orders for the well guarding 
the caravans and merchants, that, if there are any Tartars heard of 
in the country, detachments of the garrisons are always sent to see 
the travellers safe from station to station. And thus the gover* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



454 ADTBIfTORCS OP 

nor of Adinskoy, whom I had an opportunity to make a visit' to 
by means of the Scots merchant, who was acquainted with him, 
offered us a guard of fifty men, if we thought there was any dan- 
ger, to the next station. 

I thought, long before this, that as we came nearer to Europe 
we should find the country better inhabited, and the people more 
civiUzed ; but I found myself mistaken in both ; for we had yet 
the nation of the Tongueses to pass through, wliere we saw the 
same tokens of paganism and barbarity as before ; only, as thoy 
were conquered by the Muscovites, they were not so dangerous ; 
but for rudeness of manners and idolatry, no people in the world 
ever went beyond them ; they are clothed all in skins of beasts, 
and their houses are built of the same ; you know not a man from 
a woman, neither by the ruggedness of their countenances nor their 
clothes; and in the winter, when the ground is covered with 
snow, they live under ground in vaults, which have cavities going 
from one to another. 

If the Tartars had their Cham Chi-Hiaungu for a whole village 
or country, these had idols in every hut and every cave ; besides, 
they worship the stars, the sun, the water, the snow, and, in a 
word, every thing they do not understand, and they understand 
but very little ; so that every element, every uncommon thing, 
sets them a sacrificing. I met with nothing peculiar to myself in 
all this country, which I reckon was, from the desert I spoke of 
last, at least four hundred miles, half of it being another desert, 
which took us up twelve dajrs severe travelling, without house or 
tree ; and we were obliged again to carry our own provisions, as 
well water as bread. After we were out of this desert, and had 
travelled two days, we ciaune to Janezay, a Muscovite city or sta- 
tion on the great river Janexay (Yenisey), which, they told us 
there, parted Europe from Asia. « 

Here I observed ignorance and paganism still prevailed, except 
in the Muscovite garrisons ; all the country between the river 6by 
and the river Janezay is as entirely pagan, and the people as bar* 
barous, as the remotest of the Tartars ; nay, as any nation, for 
aught I know, in Asia or America. I also found, which I ob- 
served to the Muscovite governors whom I had an opportunity to 
converse with, that the poor pagans are not much wiser or nearer 
Christianity for being under the Muscovite government, which 
they acknowledged was true enough ; but that, as tliey said, was 
none of their business ; that if the czar expected to convert his 
Siberian, Tonguese, or Tartar subjects, it should be done by send' 
ing clergymen among them, not soldiers ; and, they added, with 
more sincerity than I expected, that they found it was not so much 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 40ft 

0\t concern of their monarch to make the people Christians as it 
was to make them subjects. 

From this river to the great river Oby, we crossed a wild un 
cultivated country, barren of people and good management, other- 
wise it is in itself a most pleasant, fruitful, and agreeable country. 
What inhabitants we found in it are all pagans, except such as 
are sent among them from Russia : for this is the country, I me&n 
or. y^oxh sides the xivfiT Oby, whither the Muscovite criminals that 
are not put to death are banished, and from whence it is next to 
impossible they should ever come away. 

I have nothing material to say of my particular affairs till I came 
to Tobolski, the capital city of Siberia, where I continued some 
time on the following occasion. 

We had now been almost seven months on our journey, and 
winter began to come on apace ; whereupon my partner and I 
called a council about our particular affairs, in which we found it 
proper, as we were bound for England, and hot for Moscow, to 
consider how to dispose of ourselves. They told us of sledges 
and raindeer to carry us over the snow in the winter time ; 
and, indeed, they have such things that it would be incredible to 
relate the particulars of, by which means the Russians travel 
more in the winter than they can in summer, as in these sledges 
they are able to run night and day ; the snow being frozen, is one 
universal covering to nature, by which the hills, vales, rivers, and 
lakes, are all smooth and hard as a stone, and they run upon the 
surface without any regard to what is underneath. 

But I had no occasion to push at a winter journey of this kind ; 
I was bound to England, not to Moscow, and my route lay two 
ways ; either I must go on as the caravan went, till I came to 
Jaroslaw, and then go off west for Narv^ and the Gulf of Fin- 
land, and so to Dantzic, where I might possibly sell my China 
cargo to good advantage ; or I must leave the caravan at a little 
town on the Dwina, from whence I had but six days by water to 
Archangel, and from thence might be sure of shipping either to 
England, Holland, or Hamburgh. 

Now, to go any of these journeys in the winter would have 
been preposterous ; for, as to Dantzic, the Baltic would have been 
frozen up, and I could not get passage ; and to go by land in 
those countries was far less safe than among the Mogul Tartars ; 
likewise, to go to Archangel in October, all the ships would be 
gone from thence, and even the merchants who dwell there ia 
summer retire south to Moscow in the winter, when the ships are 
gone ; so that I could have nothing but extremity of cold to en- 
counter, with a scarcity of provisions, and must lie in an empty 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



450 ADTBNTORKII or 

town all the winter : to that, upon the whole, I thought it much 
my belter way to let the caravan go, and make provision to wm- 
ter where I was, at Tobolaki, in Siberia, in the latitude of about 
aixty degrees, where I was sure of three things to wear out a cold 
winter with, viz., plenty of provisions, such as the country af- 
forded, a warm house, with fuel enough, and excellent company. 

I was now in a quite different climate from my beloved island, 
where I never felt cold, except when I had my ague ; on the con- 
trary, I had much to do to bear any clothes on my back, and 
never made any fire but without doors, which was necessary for 
dressing my food, Sic. Now I made me three good vests, with 
large robes or gowns over them, to hang down to the feet, and 
button close to the wrists ; and all these lined with furs, to make 
them sufficiently warm. 

As to a warm house, I must. confess I greatly disliked our way 
in England of making fires in every room in ^e house in open 
chimneys, which, when the fire was out, always kept the air in 
the room cold as the climate ; but taking an apartment in a good 
house in the town, I ordered a chimney to be built like a furnace, 
in the centre of six several rooms, like a stove ; the funnel to carry 
the smoke went up one way, the door to come at the fire went in 
another, and all the rockns were kept equally warm, but no fire 
seen, just as they heat the bagnios in England. By this means 
we had always the same climate in all the rooms, and an equal 
beat was preserved ; and how cold soever it was without, it was 
always warm within ; and yet we saw no fire, nor were ever in- 
commoded with smoke. 

The most wonderful thing of all was, that it should be possible 
to meet with good company here, in a country so barbarous as that 
of the most northerly parts of Europe, near the Frozen Ocean, 
within but a very few degrees of Nova Zembla. But this being 
the country where the state criminals of Muscovy, as I observed 
before, are all banished, this city was full of noblemeir, gentle- 
men, soldiers, and courtiers of Muscovy. Here was the famous 
Prince Gallitzen, the old General Robostiski, and several other 
persons of note, and some ladies. By means of my Scots mer- 
chant, whom, nevertheless, I parted with here, I made an ac- 
quaintance with several of these gentlemen ; and from these, in 
the long winter nights in which I stayed here, I received several 
very agreeable visits. 

It was talking one night with Prince , one of the banished 

ministers of state belonging to the Czar of Muscovy, that the dis- 
course of my particular case began. He had been telling me 
abundance of fine things of the greatness, the magnificence, thm 



Digitized byCjOOQlC 



EOBlHSOlt CR080B. 457 

^omimons, and the absolute pow^ of the Emperor of tte Ru»» 
flian» ; 1 interrupted him, and told him I was a greater and more 
powerful prince than even the Czar of Muscovy was, though 
niy dominions were not ^o large, or my people so many. The 
Russian grandee looked a little surprised, and fixing his eyes 
steadily upon me^ began to wonder what I meant. ' I told him his 
wonder would cease when I had explained myself. First; I told 
him I had absolute disposal of the lives kind fortunes of all my sub- 
jects ; that, notwithstanding my absolute power, I had not one per« 
son disaffected to my government or to my person in all my domin- 
ions. He shook his head at that, and said there, indeed, I outdid 
the Czar of Muscovy. I told him ^at all the lands in my king- 
dom were my own, and all my subjects were not only my tenants, 
but tenants at will; that they would all %htfor mie to Uie last 
drop ; and that never tyrant, for such I acknowledged myself to 
be, was ev&t sb universally beloved, and yet «o horribly feared 
by his subjects. 

After amusing him with these riddles in government to awhile, 
[ opened the case, and told him the story at large of my living in 
the island ; and how I managed both myself and the people that • 
were under me, just as I have since minuted it down. They 
were exceedingly taken with the story, especially the prince, who 
told me, with a sigh, that tlie true greatness of life was to be mas- 
ters of ourselves ; that he would not have exchanged such a state of 
life as mine to be Czar of Muscovy ; and that he found more felicity 
in the retirement he seemed to be banished to there, than ever he 
found in the highest authority he enjojred in the court of his mas- 
ter the czar ; that the height of human vnsdom was to bring our 
tempers down to our circumstances, and to make a calm within, 
under the weight of the greatest storms without. When he came 
first hither, he said he used to tear the hair from his head, and 
the clothes from his back, as others had done before him; but a 
little time and consideration had made him look into himself, as 
well as round him, to things without : that he fbund the mind of 
man, if it was but once brought to reflect upon ihe state of uni- 
versal life, and how little this world was concerned in its true 
felicity, was perfectly capable of making a felicity for Itself, fully 
satisfying to itself, and suitable to its own best ends and desires, 
with but very little assistance from the world ; the air to breathe 
in, food to sustain life, clothws for warmth, and liberty for exercise, 
in order to health, com|4eted, in his opinion, all that the world 
could do for us ; ai^d though the greatness, the autiiority, the riches, 
and t]?e pleasures which some enjoyed in the world, had much in 
them thai was agreeable to us,, yet all those things chieflv grsti- 

30 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



458 AirvENTURKti or 

fitd ths coarsest of our aflbctions, such as our ambition, our par* 
ticular pride, avarice, vanity, and sensuaUty ; all which, being tne 
mare product of the worst part of man, were in themselves crimes, 
and had in them the seeds of all manner of crimes ; but neither 
were related to nor concerned with any of those virtues that con« 
■tituted us vrise men, or of thoee graces that distinguished us as 
ChristiaBfl ; that being now deprived of all the fanciful felicity 
which he enjoyed in the full exercise of all those viees, he said 
he was at leisure to look upon the dark side of them, where he 
foimd all manner of defonnity, and was now convinced that virtue 
only makes a man truly vrise, rich, and great, and preserves him 
In the way to a superior happiness in a future sti^ ; and in this, 
he said, they were more happy in their banishment than all thmr 
enemies were, who had the fiill possession of all the weal& and 
power they had left behind them. Nor, sir, says he, do I bring 
my mind to this politically, by the necessity of my ^circumstances, 
which some call miserable ; but, if I know any thing of myaelf, I 
would not now go back, though the czar my mast^ should call 
me, and reinstate me in all my former grandeur : I say, I would 
no more go back to it than I believ<» my soul, when it shaU be de- 
livered from this prison of the body, and has had a taste of the 
glorious state beyond life, would come back to the jail of flesh 
and blood it is now enclosed in, and leave heaven, to deid in the 
dirt and crime of human affairs 

He spoke this with so much warmth in his temper, so- much 
earnestness and motion of his spirits, that it was evident it was 
the true sense of his soul ; there was no room to doubt his sin- 
cerity. I told him I once thought myself a kind of monarch in 
my old station, of which I had given him an account ; but that I 
thought he was not only a monarch, but a great conqueror; for 
that he that has got a victory over his own exorbitant desires, 
and the absolute dominion over himself, whose reason entirely 
governs his will, is^ certainly greater than he that conquers a city. 
But, my lord, said I, shall I take the liberty to ask you a ques- 
tion ? — With all my heart, says he. — ^If the door of your liberty 
was (^ened, said I, would you not take hold of it to deliver you 
firom this exile 1 Hold, said he ; your question is subtle, and re- 
quires some serious, just distinctions, to give it a sincere answer ; 
and I will give it you from the bottom of my heart. Nothing 
that I know of in this world would move me to deliver myself 
ftom this stale of banishment, except these two ; first, the enjoy- 
ment of H^ relations ; and, secondly, a little wanner climate : 
but I protest to you, that to go back to the pomp of the court, the 
glory, the power, the hurry of a minister of state ; tho, wealth, tue 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



EOftlNSOll CKIJ80B. 459 

gftyeity, and the pleasures of a courtier ; if my master should send 
me word this moment that he restores me to all he banished me 
from, I protest, if I know myself at all, I would hot leave this 
wilderness, these deserts, and tiiese frozen lakes, for the palace 
at Moscow* But, my lord, said I, periiaps you not only axe ban*- 
ished fnm &e pleasures of the court, and from the power, au- 
thority, and wealth you enjoyed before, but you may be absent 
too from some of the conveniences of lifo; your estates, perhaps, 
confisci^ed, and yoin^ effects plundered ; and the supplies left you 
here may not be suitable to the ordinary demands of life. Ay, 
says he, Uiat is as you suppose me to be a lord, or a prince, &c. ; 
so, indeed, I am ; but you are now to consider me only as a man, 
a human creature, not at all distinguished from another ; and so 
I can suffer no want, unless I should be visited with sickness and 
distempers. However, to put the question out of dispute, yon 
see our manner;- we are, in this place, ^e persons of rank ; we 
live perfectfy retired, as smted to a state of banishment ; we have 
somethii^ rescued from the shipwreck of our fortunes, which 
keeps us from the mere necessity of hunting ^ food ; but the 
poor soldiers, who are here without that help, live in as much 
plenty as we, who go into the woods and catch sables and foxes ; 
the labour of a mcmth will maintain them a year ; and, as the 
way of living is not expensive, so it is not hard to get sufficient 
to ourselves^ So ^at objection is out of doors. 

I have not room to give a full account of the most agreeable 
conversation I had with this truly great man ; in all which he 
showed that his mind was so inspired with a superior knowledge 
of things, so supported by religion, as well as by a vast share of 
wisdom, that his contempt of the world was really as much as he 
had expressed, and that he was always the same to the last, as 
win appear in the story I am going to tell. 

I had been here eight months, and a dark, dreadful winter I 
thought it ; &e cold so intense that I could not so much as look 
abroad without being wrapped in furs, and a mask of fur before 
my face, or rather a hood, with only a hole for breath, and two 
for sight: the little daylight we had was, as we reckoned, for 
three months, not above five hours a day, and six at most ; only 
that the snow lying on the ground continually, and the weather 
clear, it was never quite dark. Our horses were kept, or rather 
starved, under ground; and as for our servants, whom we hired 
here to look after ourselves and horses, we had, every now and 
then, their fingers and toes to thaw and take care of, lest they 
should mortify and faU off. 

It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses being cloie 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



i%\0 AOrCMTUKKS OF 

Ihe walls thick, the lip^hts mnaU, and the glass all double. Oin 
(uu'^ was cluedy the tleah of deer, dned and cured in the season : 
bread good ecough, but baked as biscuits; dried fish of several 
sorts, and some Besh of mutton and of the buffaloes, which is 
pretty good meat, AH the stores of provisiom for the winter are 
laid up in the summer, and well cured : our drink was water, 
mixed with aqua viiaB instead of brandy ; and for a. treat, mead 
instead of wine, which, however, they have excellent good. The 
hunters, who venture abroad all weathers, firequently brought us 
in fine venison, and sometimes hearts flesh, but we did not much 
care for the last. We had a good stock of tea, with which w 
treated our friends, as above, and we lived very i^eerfully and 
well, all things considered. 

It was now March, Uie days grown considerably loi^r, and 
the weather at least tolerable ; so the other travellers began io 
prepare sledges to carry them over the snow, arnl to get things 
ready to be going ; but my measures being fixed, as i have said, 
for Archangel, and not for Muscovy or the Baltic, I made no 
motion ; knowing very well that the ship» from the south do not 
set out for tlxat part of the world till May or June, cmd that if I 
was there by the beginning of August, it would be as soon as any 
ships would be ready to go away ; and therefore I made no haste 
to be gone, as others did : in a word, I saw^ a great oaay people^ 
nay, all the travellers, go away before me. It seems, «very year 
they go from thence) to Muscovy for trade, viz-) to cany furs,ajnd 
buy necessaries, which they bring back with th^n to furni^ tbsii 
shops : also others went on the same errand to Archangel ; but 
then they all being to come back again, above eig^ hundred 
miles, went all out before me. 

In the month of May I began to make all ready to pack up ; 
and, as I was doing this, it occured to me that, seeing idl these 
people were banished by the Czar of Muscovy to Siberia, and yet, 
when they came there, were left at liberty to go whither they 
would, why they did not then go away to any part of ^ world, 
wherever ^y thought fit ; and I began to examine what should 
hinder them from making such an attempt. But my wonder was 
over when I entered upon that subject with the person I have 
mentioned, who answered me thus : Consideir, first, sir, said Iw, 
the place where we are ; and, secondly, the condition/ we are in; 
especially the generality of the people who are banished hitlier. 
We are surrounded with stronger things than bars^r bolta; of< 
the north side an unnavigable ocean, where ship never sailed, and 
boat never swam ; every other way, we have above a thousand 
miles to pass through the czar's own dominions, and hy wayi 



Digitized 



by Google 



ROaiNSOV nRL'SOK. 461 

utterly impassable, except by the roads made by the government, 
and through the towns garrisoned by his troops ; so that we could 
neither pass undiscovered by the road, nor subsist any other way , 
so that it is in vain to attempt it. / 

I was sHeiiced, indeed, at once, and found that they were in ^ 
prison every jot as secure as if they had l)een locked up in the 
castle at Moscow: however, it came into my thoughts that I might 
certainly be made an instrument to procure the escape of this ex- 
cellent person ; and that, whatever hazard I ran, I would certainly 
try if I could carry him off. Upon this I took an occasion, one 
evening, to tell him my thoughts. I represented to him that it 
was very easy for me to carry him away, there being no guard 
over him in the coimtry ; and as I was not going to Moscow, but 
to Archangel, and that I went in the retinue of a caravan, by which 
I was not obliged to lie in the stationary towns in the desert, but 
could encaim> e^ery night where I would, we might easily pass 
uninterruptea to Archangel, wiiere I would immediately secure 
him en board an Bng^h ship, and carry him safe along with me ; 
and as to his subsistence, and o^er particulars, it should be my 
care, till he ooold better supply himself. 

He heard me very attentively, and looked earnestly on me all 
the while I spoke ; nay, I could see in his very face that what I 
said put his sf^rits into an exceeding ferment ; his colour fre- 
quently changed, his eyes looked red, and his heart fluttered, that 
it might be ♦ven perceived in his countenance ; nor could he im- 
' mediately answer me when I had done, and as it were hesitated 
what he w<nild say to it : but after he had paused a little, he em- 
braced me, and said, How unhappy are we, unguarded creatures 
as we are, that «ven our greatest acts of friendship are made 
snares unto us, and we are made tempters of one another ! My 
dear friend, said he, your vffet is so sincere, has such kindness 
in it, is so disinterested in itself, and is so calculated for my ad- 
vantage, that I must have very little knowledge of the world if 1 
did not botii wonder at it, and acknowledge the obligation I have 
upon me to you for it. But did you believe I was sincere in 
what I have often said to you of my contempt of the world ! Did 
you believe I spoke my vei^r «oul to you, and that I had really 
obtained that degree of felicity here that had placed me above ah 
that the world could give me 1 Did you believe I was sincere 
when I told you I would not go back if I was recalled even to be 
all that I once was in the court, with the favour of the czar m^ 
master I Did you believe me, my friend, to be an honest man , 
or did you believe me to be a boasting hypocrite I Here he stop- 
ped, as if he would hear what I would say; but, indeed, I sron 

3g» 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



4&Z ADVKNTURKft Olf 

after perceived that he stopped because his spihts were in BKHion 
his great heart was fuU of straggles, and he could not go on. ] 
was, I confess, astonished at the thing as well as at the man, and 
I used some arguments with him to urge him to set himself free ; 
that he ought to look upon this as a dkM>r ^Mned hj Heaven for 
his deliTeraiice, and a summons by RroTldenoe, who has the care 
and diq>o8ition of all events, to do himself good, and to render 
himself useful in the worid. 

He had by this time recoveied himsel/': How do jou lodow, 
sir, says he warmly, but that, instead of a summons Wn Heav- 
en, it may be a feint of another instrument ; M|»«senUng in allu- 
ring colours to me the show of felicity as a deliverance, which 
may in itself be my snare, and tend directly to my ruin t Here 
I am free from the temptation of returning to my f^mer miserable 
greatness ; there I am not aure but that all the seeds of pride, 
ambition, avarice, and luxury, which I know remain in miture,' 
may revive and take root, and, in a word, again overwhelm me ; 
and then the happy prisoner, whom you aee now master of his 
soul's liberty, shall be the miseraUe slave of hit own senses, in 
the full of all personal liberty. Dear sir, let me remam m this 
blessed confinement, banished from the crimes of life« n^ier than 
purchase a show of freedom at the expense of the l^r^ of my 
reasoQ, and at the future happiness which I now have in my view, 
but shall ihen, I fear, quickly lose sight of; for I am but fiesh; 
a mail, a mere man; have passions imd affieotiona as Vkelj tc' 
possess and overthrow me as any man : O be not my idend and 
tempter both together ! 

If I was surprised before, I was quite dumb now, and stood 
silent, looking at him, and, indeed, admiring what I saw* The 
struggle in his soul was so great, that though the weather was 
extremely cold, it put him into a most violent sweat, and I found 
he wanted to give vent to his mind ; so I said a word or two, 
that I would leave him to consider of it, and wait on him agun, 
and then I withdrew to my own apartment. 

About two hours aiker I heard somebody at or near the door 
of my room, and I was going to qpen the do^, but he had opened 
it and came in. My dear friend, says he, you had aknost over- 
set me, but I am recovered. Do not take it ill that I do not close 
with your offer; I assure you it is not for want of sense of the 
kindness of it in you ; and I came to make the most sincere ac- 
knowledgment of it to you : but I hope I have got the victory 
over myself. My lord, said I, I hope you are fully aatiafied thai 
you do not resist the <:all of Heaven. Sir, aaid he, if it had been 
firom Heaven, the same power would have influenced me to have 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 463 

accepted it : but I hope, and am fully satisfied, that it is from 
HeaTen thatti declined it ; and I have infinite satisfaction in the 
parting, that you shall leave me an honest man still, though not a 
free man.' 

I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make professions to 
him of my having no end in it but a sincere desire to serve him. 
He embraced me very passionately^ and assured me he was sen- 
sible of that, and should always acknowledge it; and with that 
he offered me a very fine present of sables, too much, indeed, foi 
me to accept from a man in his circumstances, and I would have 
avoided them, but lie would not be refused. 

The next morning I sent my servant to his lordship with a 
small present of tea, and two pieces of China damask, and four 
little wedges of Japan gold, which did not all weigh above six 
ounces or thereabout, but were far short of the value of his 
sables, which, when I came to England, I found worth near two 
hundred pounds. He accepted the tea, and one piece of the 
damask, and one of the pieces of gold, which had a fine stamp 
upon it, of the Japan coinage, wMch I found he took for the 
rarity of it, but would not take any more ; and he sent word by 
my servant that he desired to speak with me. 

When I came to him, he told me I knew what had passed be- 
tween us, and hoped I would not move him any more in that 
affair ; but that, suice I had made sudi a generous offer to him, 
he asked me if I had kindness enough to offer the same to an- 
other person that he would name to me, in whom he had a great 
share of concern. I told him that I could not say I inclined to 
do so much for any but himself, for whom I had a particular 
value, and should have been glad to have been the instrument of 
his deliverance ; however, if he would please to name the person 
to me, I would give him my answer. He told me it was his only 
son ; who, though I had not seen him, yet he was in the same con- 
dition with himself, and above two hundred miles from him, on the 
other side the Oby ; but that, if I consented, he would send for him, 

I made no hesitation, but told him I would do it. I made 
some ceremony in letting him understand that it was wholly on 
his account ; and that, seeing I could not prevail on him, I would 
show my respect to him by my concern for his son ; but these 
things are too tedious to repeat here. He sent away the next 
day for his son ; and in about twenty days he came back with the 
messenger, bringing six or seven horses loaded with very rich 
furs, and which, in the whole, amounted to a very great value. 
His servants brought the horses into the town, but len the young 
bid at a distance till night, when he came incognito into oui 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



464 AOTCMTUttKS or 

apanment, and bis father preaented him to me, and, in ahort» wa 
conceited the manner of our travelling, and every thing proper 
for the joomej. 

I had bought a considerable quantity of sables, black fbx^skins. 
on« ermines, and such other furs as are very rich, in that city, in 
exchange for some of the goods I had brought from China; io 
particular for the cloves and nutmegs, of which I sold the greatest 
part here, and the rest afterward at Archangel, for a much better 
price than I could have got at London ; and my. partner, who was 
sensible of the profit, and whose business more particularly than 
mine was merchandise, was mightily pleased with our stay, on 
account of the traffic we made h^e. 

It was the beginnii^ of June when I left this remote place, a 
city, I believe, little heard of in the world ; and, indeed, it is so 
far out of the road of conunercej that I know not how it should 
be much talked of. We were now reduced to a very small cara- 
van, having only thirty-two horses and camels in all, and all 
of them passed for mine» though my new guest was proprietor of 
eleven of them ; it was most natural also that I should tsdce more 
servants widi ma than I had before ; and the young lord passed 
for my steward ; what great man I passed for myself I know not, 
neither did it concern me to inquire. We had here the worst 
and the largest desert to pass over that we met with in our whole 
journey ; I call it the worst, because the way was very deep in 
some places, and very uneven in others ; the best we had to say 
for it was, that we thought we had no troops of Tartars or rob- 
bers to fear, and that they never came on this side the river Oby, 
or at least but very seldom ; but we found it otherwise. 

My young lord had a faithful Mutcovite, or rather a Siberian 
servant, who was perfectly acquainted with the country, and led 
us by private roads, so that we avoided coming into the principal 
towns and cities upon the great road, such as Tumen, Soloy 
Kamskoi, and several others ; because the Muscovite garrisons 
which are kept there are very curious and strict in their observa- 
tion upon travellers, and searching lest any of the banished per- 
sons of note should make their escape that way mto Muscovyj 
but by this means, as we were kept out of the cities, so ova 
whole journey was a desert, and we were obliged to encamp and 
lie in our tents, when we might have had very good accommoda- 
tion in the cities on the way : this the young lord was so sensi- 
ble of, that he would not allow us to lie abroad when we came 
to several cities on the way, but lay abroad himself, with his 
aervant, in the woods, and met us always at the appointed places. 

We were just entered Europe, having passed the river Kama, 



Digitized 



by Google 



BOBIZtSON CIIU80C. M6 

which in these parts is the bonndary between Europe and Asia, 
and the first city on the European side was called Soloy Kam- 
skoi, which is as much as to say, the great city on the river 
Kama ; and here we thought to see some evident alteration in 
the people ; but we were mistaken ; for as we haid a vast desert 
to pass, which is near seven hundised miles loog in some places, 
but not above two hundred miles over where we passed it, so till 
we came past that horrible place, we found very little difference 
between that country and the Mogul Tartary; the people are 
mostly pagans, and little better than the savages of America ; 
their houses and towns full of idols, and their way of living 
wholly barbarous, except in the cities, as above, and the villages 
near them, where they are Christians, as they call themselves, of 
the Greek church ; but have tiieir religion mingled with so many 
relics of superstition, that it is scarce to be knowa in some 
places from mere sorcery and witchcraft. 

In passing this forest, I thought, indeed, we must (after all our 
dangers were to our imagination escaped, as before) have been 
plundered and robbed, and perhaps murdered, by a troop of 
thieves ; of what country tiiey were I am yet at a loss to know, 
but they were all on horseback, carried bows luid arrows, and 
were at first about forty-five m number ; they came so near to 
us as to be within two musket shots, and asking no questions, 
surrounded us with their horses, and looked very earnestly upon 
us twice : at length they placed themselves just in our way ; 
upon which we drew up in a little line before our camels, being 
not above sixteen men in all ; and being drawn up thus, we 
halted, and sent out the Siberian servant, who attended his lord, 
to see who they were : his master was the more willing to let 
him go, because he was not a little apprehensive that they were 
a Siberian troop sent out after him. The man came up near 
them with a flsig of truce, and called to them ; but though he 
spoke several of Uieir languages, or dialects of languages rather^ 
he could not understand a word they said ; however, after some 
signs to him not to come nearer to them at his peril, the fellow 
came back no wiset than he went ; only that by their dress, he 
said, he believed them to be some Tartars of Kalmuck, or c^ the 
Circassian hordes, and that there must be more of them upon 
the great desert, &ough he never heard ^i^ any of them were 
seen so far north before. 

About an hour after they again made a motion to attack us, 
and rode round our little wood to see where they might break in ; 
but finding us always ready to face them, they wenir off again 
and we resolved not to stir for ^at night. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



460 AoyBNTUBst or 

This WM mftll comfort to us ; howeTer, we had no remedy : 
there wu en oar left head, at aboot a quarter of a mile distance, 
a little grore, and rery near the road ; I immediately resolved we 
aho«ild advmnoe to thoae trees, and fortify ourselres as well as 
we conld there ; for, first, I considered that the trees would in a 
great measure cover us from their arrows ; and, in the next 
place, they cooM not come to charge us in a body ; it was, in- 
deed, my did Portuguese pilot who |»opo6ed it^ and who had this 
ezcelknce attending him, that he was always readiest and most 
apt to direct and encourage us in cases of the most danger. 
We adranced immediately with what speed we could, and gained 
that little wood ; the Tartars, or thieves, for we knew not what 
to caU them, keeping their stand, and not attempting to hinder 
us. When we came thither, we found, to our great sattsfactton, 
that it was a swampy piece of ground, and on the one side a 
very great spring of water, which running out in a little brook, 
was, a little further. Joined by another of the like size ; and was, 
in short, the source of a considerable river, called afterward the 
Wirtska : the trees which grew about this sjmng were not above 
twe hundred, but very large, and stood {Mretty thick, so tiiat as 
soon as we got in we saw ourselves perfectly safe from the 
enemy, unless they attacked us on foot. 

While we stayed here wsuting the motion of the enemy sosoe 
hours, without perceiving they made any movement, our Portu- 
guese, with some help, cut several arms of trees half off, and 
laid them hanging across from one tree to ano^er, and in a man- 
ner fenced us in. About two hours before night they came down 
directly upon us : and though we had not perceived it, we found 
they had been Joined by some more of the same, so that they 
weie near fourscore horse ; whereof, however, we fancied some 
vrere women. They came on till they were within half shot of 
our little wood, when we fired one musket wi^iout ball, ^uid 
called to them in the Russian tongue to know what they wanted, 
and bade them keep off: but they came on with a double fury 
up to the wood side, not imagining we were so banicaded that 
they oould not easily break in. Our old pilot was our captain, 
as well as our engineer, and desired us not to fire upon them till 
they came within pistol-shot, that we might be sure to kill ; and 
tiiat when we did fire, we should be sure to take good aim ; we 
bade him give the word of command, which he delayed so long, 
tiiat they were some of them within two pikes length of us when 
we let fiy. We aimed so true that we killed fourteen of them, 
and woimded several others, as also several of their horses ; for we 
oad all of ns loaded our pieces wi^ two or three bullets at least. 



Digitize#y Google 



BOBHiscni CSU90E. 467 

They were terribly surprised with oar fire, and mtrested im- 
mediately about one hundred rods from us, in which time we 
loaded our pieces again, and seeing them keep that distance, we 
sallied out, and caught four or five of their horses, whose riders 
we supposed were killed : and coming" up to the dead, we judged 
they* were Tartars, but knew not how they came to make an ex- 
cursion such an unusual length. 

We slept Httle, you may be sure, but spent the most part of 
the night in strengthening our situation, and barricading the en- 
trances into the wood, and keeping a strict watch. We waited 
for daylight, and when it came, it gave us a very unwelcome dis- 
covery indeed ; for the enemy, who we thought were discour- 
aged with the reception they met wi&, were now greatly in- 
creased, and had set up eleven or twelve huts or tents, as if 
they were resolved to besiege us ; and this little camp they had 
pitched upon the open plain, about three quarters of a mile 
firom us. We were, indeed, surprised at tiiis discovery ; and 
now, I confess, I gave myself over for lost, and all that I had ; 
the loss of my effects did not lie so near me, though very con- 
siderable, as the thoughts of falling into the hands of such 
barbarians, at the latter end of my journey, afler so many difii 
culties and hazards as I had gone through, and even in sight of 
our port, where we expected safety and deliverance. As to my 
partner, he was raging, and declared that to lose his goods would 
be hit ruin, and that he would rather die than be starved ; and 
he was for fighting to the last drop. 

The young lord, as gallant as ever flesh showed itself, vras 
for figfating^ to the last also ; and my old pilot was of &e opinion 
that we were able to resist them aU in the situation we were 
then in ; and thus we spent ^e day in debates of what we should 
do : but towards evening we found that the manber of our ene- 
mies still inereased, and we did not know but by the morning 
they might be a still greater number ; so I began to inquire of 
those people we had brought fr<Mn Tobolski, if there were no 
private ways by which we might avoid them in the night, and 
periiaps retreat to some town, or get help to guard us over the 
desert. The Siberian, who was servant to the young lord, told 
us, if we designed to avoid them, and not fight, he would engage to 
carry us <^ in the idght, to a way that went north, towards the 
river Petrou, by which he made no question but we might get 
away, and the Tartars never the wiser : but, be said, his lord 
had told him he wouM not retreat, but would rather choose to 
Sf^t. I told him he mistook lus lord ; for ibat he wis tec wise 
% man to love fig^iting for the sake of it ; ^t I knew fais lord 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



448 4BTcirroAss op 

WM braTe •noygh, by what he had showed aliaady ; but thai bis 
lord knew better than to desire seventeen or eighteen men to fight 
five hundred, unless an unavoidable necessity forced them to it ; 
and that, if he thought it possible for us to escape in the night, 
we had nothing else to do but to attempt it. He anawered, if his 
lordship gave him such orders he would lose his life if he did 
not perform it: we soon brought his lord to give that order, 
though piivatelf , and we immediately prepared for the putting it 
in practice. 

And, fot, as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled a fire 
in our little camp, which we kept burning, and prepared so as to 
make it burn all night, that the Tartars might conclude we were 
still there ; but as soon as it was dark, and we could see the 
stars (for our guide would not stir before), having all our horses 
and camels ready loaded, we followed our new guide, who I soon 
found steered himself by the north star. 

After we had travelled two hours very hard, it began to be 
lighter still ; not that it was quite dark all night, but the moon 
began to rise, so that, in shcm, it was rather Ughtet than we 
wished it to be ; but by six oVlock the next morning we were 
got above thirty miles, having almost spoiled our horses. Here 
we found a Russian village, named Kermazinskoy, where we 
rested, and heard nothing of the Kitouck Tartars that day. 
About two hours before ni£^ we set out again, and travelled tiU * 
eight the next momii^, though not quite so hard as before; and 
about seven o'clock we passed a little river, called Kirtza, , and 
came to a lazge town inhabited by Russians, called Ozojfsoys ; 
there we heard that several troops of Kalmucks had heea. ^Ivoad 
upon the desert, but that we were now completely out of daage^ 
of them, which was to our great satisfaction. Here ws were 
obliged to get some fresh horses ; and having need enpugh ^ 
rest, we stayed five days; and my partner aiid I aipneed to givf 
the honest Siberian who brought us thither the value of ten 
pistoles. 

In five days more we came to VeusUma, upon tl^ river Wirt- 
z<^da, and running into the Dwina : we were |here, very happily, 
near the end of our travels by la^d, that river being navigable, in 
seven days' passage, to ArchangeL From hence we came to 
Lawrenskoy i^ 3d of July ; and providing ourselves with two 
luggage-boats, and a barge for our own convenience, we em- 
barked the 7th, and arrived all safe at Archangel th^ 13th ; hav- 
ing been a year five months and three days on the jou'mey, in- 
cluding our stay of eight months at Tobolski, We were obliged 
to stay at this place six week^ for the arrival of Uijsjih^ and 



Digitiz#y Google 



ROBINSON CRUSOB 469 

niist huve tarried longer, had act a Hamburgher come in above 
a month sooner than any of the English ships ; when, after some 
consideration that the city of Hamburgh might happen to be as 
good a market for our goods as London, we all took freight with 
him ; and, having put our goods on board, it was most natural 
for me to put my steward on board to take care of them ; by 
which means my young lord had a sufficient opportunity to con- 
ceal himself, never coming on shore again all the time we stayed 
there ; and this he did that he might not be seen in the city 
where some of the Moscow merchants would certainly have seen 
.and discovered him. 

We then set sail from Archangel the 20th of August the same 
year ; and after no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived safe in the 
Elbe the 18th of September. Here my partner and I. found a 
very good sale for pur goods, as vtreU those of China as the sa- 
bles, &c. ze, m7 share 
amounted ty-five pounds 
seventeen I six hupdred 
pounds w< mgal. 

Here tl . went up the 

Elbe, in c re he resolved 

to seek pi of his father's 

friends wl ut testimonies 

oi gratitu s sense of my 

kindness 

To con Hamburgh, I 

came froc ibarked in the 

packet, and arrived in London the 10th of January, 1705 ; having 
been absent from England ten years and nine months. And here 
1 resolved to prepare for a longer journey than all these, having 
lived a life of infinite variety seventy-two years, and learned 
sufficiently to know the value of retirement, and the blessing 
of ending our days in peace. 



THB SKO. 



Digitized 



by Google 



i 



Digitized fyGoOgle 



^txi^ ^ lacksott's "jj^ahtkatiom. 



UBfiABY OF FfflraUOt TALES. 



2'M» VohmHtt mch whims wifft CoUfrtd FrwUepiaee, Itm^., CM\ 
ffUt baek |1. 
PerllA 4^ Fast lit' 



Warning to Young Hen, b j Giarlet 
Burdett. 

IilShta, and. Slindows of a 
PfMtor'a JLif ^ by S. H. EUiott 

Tlie Yottns I^ady at Home, 

by T. 8. Arthur. 

Amertean Kveiiliis Knter- 
talfunents, by J. C, Campbell* 

Tlte OrpKan Bojr; or, 
Eiizhtm and ShadoTFS of 
Nortiftem l4lfe« 



TUe Orpluui Girls | ojt^ 
l4lgl»l» aad Sltadorws of 
Soutbem Iiife. 

Tiio Beaiitj of iromaii's 
Faitll* ATaleof SoutheniLife. 

Xlie Joys and Sorroi;rifr of 
1-1 onto. An Aatebiography» by 
Anna Loland. 

Neir Ensland Boya^ or, 
Tike Tliree ApprenUces, 

by A. Ii. Stimson. 

Prose and Poetry of JAnral 

I4f e, by H. Pendller 



NEW LIBBABY OF WIT AND ISOWGR. 



The irtdour Bedott Pwir 
pers, oy Francb M. Whitcher, 
with an introdocUon by AHce B. 
Neal, with eight spirited ilhutra- 
ttons,12mo. Cloth, 0lt back, 186 

'Way Doim East; or,Por» 
^ralture of ITankee I<tfe, 

SJadc Downing 'Seba Smith), 
no., Illustrated, Clotb, 100 

The l.lffe and Sayings of 
llrs. Partington, by B. P. 

ghfflaber, forty-three Illustrations, I 

l8mo» Cloth, 1 85 I 



The ^^rro^irsrass Papers, 

by F. a Cozsens, illustrated by 
Barley, 12mo. Caoth, 1( 

The Pnddleford Papers; 
or, Hnmors of the West, 

12mo. illustrated, Cloth, 1 < 

{ The Bnnshy Papers; or, 

I Irish Echoes, by John Broug- 
ham, 12mo. Illustrated, Cloth, 1 < 



I«ord Chesterfield's Iietters 
to his Son* With a portrait on 
stoel, 12mo 



Essays of 
Lamb, 12mo. 



Eaia« by Charlea 



AfVdison's Spectator, com^ 
plete in 2 volumes, 

Foster's Essay on Decision 
of Character, and Gems 
of Thousht, 12mo. ...Cloth, 

Boddridse'sRise and Pro- 
gress, Imo. . . , 

Baxter's Saints' Rest, 12mo. 

Pen Pictures of the Bible, 

by Ret. Charles Beecher, 18mo. 
Cloth, gilt back, 
TiUglltsidcaaiidedgM, 



L.. 



185 

100 
260 

100 

100 
1 00 



Rhymes -vrith Reason and 
urithont, by B. P. Shillab«r 
(Mra. Partington), 12mo. portrait. 

Neat cloth 1 01 

Gerald massey's Poems, 

12mo Neat cloth, 75 

The Balloon Travels of 
Robert ^Serry and his 
ITouns Friends oTer Ta« 
rious Countries of En- 
rope, by Peter Parley, with rt|^ 
illustrations, 12mo. Cloth, gilt back, 100 
Full gilt sides and edges, 1 6^ 

Gilbert Go-Ahead's Ad- 
ventures and Travels in 
Foreign Parts, by Peter 
Parley, eight illustrations, 12mo. 

Clotlt, gilt back, 1 HO 
FuUgiH sides and edges, 1 M 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



9^ki ^ lackson's ^nblictfoiti. 



STAHDABD PEMALE iroVSLISTS. 



Tk« Works off Jane Ana* 
taOf oomprteing ** Pride and Pr«- 
jadlce," ''SeiiM and Semibiltty >• 
^MMMfldd Park.** *« MorttiMger 
AbHjr,*' "ImiBiC' '*P«n»MtMi.** 
First Ameriam editfon, wlUi por^ 
trftU, comptou in 4 Toll. Inao. 
Oiolh, 
Half caU; ezir» or Antiqoie, 

Tile Woriui of WaaiHiK 
More. cenpriilDf '^CobMm in 
fiMTch of a Wife," and her Tales 
and AUeforlet Completew Portrait 
•n ftMLt roll. tSmo. ......Cloth, 



4M 

8 10 



r oal^ «tra ar aattqua, 

tarlotto bronte 

comprising ** Jan« 



400 



Works of Cluurlotto bronte 

(Correr MIX con 
lljrre," •♦BWrky.'* i 



• Tols.lSaM. Cloth, 800, 

Half caU; extra or antiqna, 6 09 1 



ne Works of Jaao PorlM;^ 

eompri8ing**The Scottish Chieft,**^ 
and ^ThaddeoB of Warsaw." Wkh 
iteel portrait, 8 TQls.ltaio... Cloth, 8 80 
Half calf, extra or antique, 4 Oft 

Tho Work* of Anne Rad- 

eltflrey comprising ** The M^nsteriss 
of Odoipho," and ^ Romance of the 
Forest^ With steel portr«ii 2 vols. 

18dm. .Clotti, 880 

Half call; extra or aotiqne, 4 08 

The W^orks of Frances 
Barney (Madame D'Arblay), 
oomprteing "Erellna,^* and "Co- 
dfia,** with a copious Biography 
of the AuUior by T. Bablngton Mii- 
cauli^. Complete in 8 vols. l^o. 

withportrait Cloth, 8 08 

Half call; extraor siiti<iae, 4 00 



,BR-PUBLICATION OP THE OLD NOVELISTS. 

BEW UBBAEY OF COJySSIC AUTHOBS. 

' £adi Tolume is embdBriied with one or more lUortrations, and i^ are hound in neat 
oniffsrm htedlng, red or hiaek doth, ftall gOt badts, and told for One Jhikir, m la 
giU sides and edget 2W i>o<^av« 



L- 



The Scottish Chielby 

Thaddons of Warsaw, — 
Children of tho Akberv* 

Gil Bias, bjLe Sago, 

I^n Clulxote^ by Cerrantes, . . . 

Arabian Nl«rhts, 

RoMnson Cmooo^ by DoCoe, 
Swiss rantlly RoMnson,.. 

PUflrrtnt's Progress, 

Holy War, by John Banyan,.. 
Viear of Wakefield, and 
RASselas (two in one), . ^ 

FAUland Vlre;lnla»v>dTho 
Bxil es of Siberia (two in on^ 

CtulUver's TraTols, 

Moaa^nee of the Forest, • 



ThenrTsterieoof ITdolpho, S 00 

Tristnun Shandy,.... 1 00 

Coeleha tn Search of a WIA;, 1 00 

Ton^ Jones, by Fiek&ig^.;. . .. 1 00 

Amelia, by Fielding, 100 

Boderlcic Random, 1 00 

Humphrey dUnicer, 100 

B vellna, by Miss Bumey, 1 00 

qecilla, by Mbs Buraey,. . .^ . . . 1 00 

by Jane Austen, 100 



Sense and Sensibllltr, and 

Per^aaslon (in one volume), . . 1 00 

Pride , and Prejadlce, and 
Nor€hanser Abbey (two 
. in one),... 1 00 

mransfteld Park* '<^MI 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC ^ 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



